74-00000

CE AE A idler ie a ee ote

g)

. cena

PR | oh. eet

 

5. Subject advised that during her voting experience
she had made it a point to vote for the man and not the
party. Elaborating, Subject stated that she liked
Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that
she advised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that
she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba whereupon
Sherwood said "too bad he was selling us down the river".
Sherwood did not elaborate on the latter statement accord-
ing to the Subject. Subject stated that the telephone
conversation lasted about one half hour and upon discon-
tinuance of +. versation she (Subject) advised her
husbend. Mre. advised that her husband is in
sensitive work with the Air Force and immediately advised
Subject to report the telephone conversation to proper
officials of the Agency .o3 stated that she could not
give further clues concerning the identity of the "ex-CIA
Courier" or the location in West Virginia where Sherwood
associated with the "ex-CIA Courier”.

6. I requested the Subject to ‘keep me advised of any
additional calls, information or contact with Sherwood.

7. I recommend that the attached information be —
passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

car PUTO ;
jf aan D ‘s ce

4
i

 

man nes

vitiey

 
 

 

 

WOOT) ~

 

+ Periowat. Fon No. 10 (> soso-r08 . . et
“te » Evite eorrion ; nop 4 ; .
4 Tn arg nee me : 1 Sebecd ne C.
~<”* UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ETUAN TO CIA
ve oo Background Use Only
: Memo Yan a um . : Do Not Reproduce
. ; . 7 ; ‘ ‘ . .
TO : Chief, Personnel Security Division _ DATE: 1 June 1964
FROM: Special Assistant, Chief/PSD ao .

 

ra
“

SUBJECT:

 

8479

1. In compliance with your request, the Subject was
interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information
she reported to Mr. John R. Pherson, Security Officer/
DDS&T, which is indicated as Tab A.

2, Upon interview, the Subject repeated substantially
the same information that is reported in Mr. Pherson's
memorandum. Additional information indicates that Subject
definitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince
George County Maryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.
Mrs. Sherwood's name‘appeared as 33-E on the ballot.

3. During the telephone conversation Subject stated
that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Sherwood
resides in the Oxon Hill, Maryland area dye to the fact she
mentioned teet some road construction “ee being done vhiel=kes
besuxdene in the Oxon Hill area recently.

h, Subject stated that she did not desire to place
pressure on Mrs. Sherwood for further information concerning
the reme and whereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier" who told Mrs.
Sherwood that President Kennedy would be assassinated and the
President's assassin would also be assassinated. Subject ad-
vised that Sherwood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in
Weat Virginia (city or town not given) where there was &
cafeteria. Sherwood advised the Subject that the food aid
not agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took
him into town for meals. Sherwood further indicated that the
"courier" told her that he “had too much knowledge" indicating
that the latter was the reason he left the Agency. Sherwood
stated that the “ex-Courier” told her a lot of things relative
to people in high places in the Government which was quite
shocking and the information worried her (Sherwood) very much.

Document Number 1279-4664

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

 
