0 ° a ae

 

  
     

Inside W. ashingfon :

OO ——

 

 

 

A Withheld Vital |
CIA Withheld Vita
oo By ROBERT S. ALLEN clals who actively oppose Je

And PAUL SCOTT “Soviet policies, “-

: Titled “Soviets
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.. Executive

  

dismissal of such persons Ji guid ¢
West- from public office, at oth. form. The
2 2 ial reds of er times even having -within™ sec
é ag ly op. | them’ ‘eliminated’ - physl - autopsy wo

ec i i Russia cally. an - its use. N

ence Agency withheld -ment went intg\the a with “Such activities’ -are.- poisons hay
- Vital intelligence infor. ing details of ‘how ag. (\thi Ke t-size, gun, - known to be undertaken ed whica d
“mation from the Warren .of KGB, the Soviet eb ai\ ing only. orders against other types of fect until -
‘Commission during its in. police, are trained di ftdm Moscow to use it. | persons in the West, not-.-after being
vestization of the assas- away with Western Tead- The Murder Weapons :ably defectors from the “thus allow
sination. of President ers, including officials in HIGHLIGHTS of the USSR. and from other - to be far fr
Kennedy. - ue the U.S., and to make suppressed int eliigence countries of the Soviet. when his ¥
Despite the- commis. their deaths appear due estimate, which is locked bloc. oot SAT Kn

- sion's written request for to. natural causes. in a security area within . _, “One recently reported source. has
‘all documents that might One of the KGB’s new- the tightly-guarded CIA, ' assassination technique is pneumatical
“Shed light on the assas- Jy devised assassination - are as follows: to electrocute an individ- poison ice
sination, CIA authorities wapons -is “a: pnumati- “It has been reported ual by luring him to which leave
failed to turn over a na- cally. operated poison ice .. that the KGB endeavors use a telephone, connect- pr other ey
_ tional intelligence esti. ‘atomizer,’. which leaves to remove~the:.threat to ed to a high-voltage wire, _cavise of de!
mate warning that it is .ne wound or other -evi- Soviet interests ‘posed by during a thunderstorm. = Congressi

x .-“Another involves the gators, who

erm governments,some- use of a pistol which that the nz
times. arranging forzthe ~ projects a poison gas in - committec

         
 

    

o-The Central Intelli. suppressed

 
  
 

 

Kremlin policy te remove denée of the Cause of-. certain-members of West-
» from public office by as-- death2* oe
“4. Sassination Western offi- .. While

  
  

    

    

   

.

 

 

  
 
  
  
   

+ pA an
. able’ “for Joe vielen ges
- gy Shey’ point ‘ont that
_ the State Department
Suppressed evidenre dink.”
223 Oswald “with one of

 

  

“In the Depar a
USSR country co

   

pressed a v

  

   
  
 
 
 
    

: sed. ee
_ 3 investigators "
. tes” pete he was\a \l ar tying to. determing
tember, - why the CIA in its i
eps State Depsrtment assassination repest re Crier ‘
_ BEticial's | name -2lso ap. the State Department on ui
; peared in the address Oswald's trip to Mexico | was: \
. book ora Suspacted So- City gaye details only of 4. ree
yet ,25t Who arrived the defector’s visit to the Mad a
he US. in 1942, ae Russian embassy and not : He
sore 2 to- government the Cuban embassy. Tha 3 |: f - © 2
Congressional invasti. Tater 2, eet raft eee “3 :

jatter visit untit arses
2st is ~~ Ae ee] after.
SB0TS 2ls0 have been Kennedy’s as sstoatio:

Shocked to scorer that in Dalias, ese ee

oh
Ww
cml
ioe)
tO :

 

PACE oe .
COPY NO ener

 
 
