 

|
‘

 

wee

  
 
 

 

pate:

 

 

 

 

 

park:

haaee
leave in

vo dale on TY.

oe a
‘ . '

oak |

“unscrupulous and untrust-

have attempted te contract with another

eters tive for planting a romote-cant rolled Lomb in the
ops of the Haiti Secret Police, and has been reported
e assignments for exile
Itadth and the Dominican Republic. (Based on
pDCcS, i= March 1967, decided
ontact with BAST os &

yALT, de scribed as

_ ta mows) to

audertaken similar oxtrem
way
vy inforrnation on file,
previously contemplated c
a intoriation on Asta.)
yer), and William We TURNER of RAMEAITS %
pravided information that during January 1967,
4, CURNER, who identified himself as a {ree-lance
Worsted the offices of the Asia Foundation, requesting

ra magazine article. He stated that he had

van fot
: ty Col Stern of New York to gather information for

1. in the New York Times. uring his visit, however.
e abyious that TURNER was primed to ask questions
the foundation, rather than its actual

rc cetivities. When TURNER concluded the interview

_ooting card with the firm name VREDEN-PACIFIC".

+o be had to have new cards printed. TURNER,

; he vissed from the FBIin 1961, is noted to have

- article im the November 1966 tssuc of RAMPARTS

_ diel he deacribos alleged wirotapping, sur-
cleee performed by bin while with the CEL

4p he claimed to represent, fe anal atant

stor of RAMPARTS Magening.

NN

  

oe financing of

dee

ao Wi Rand BAST in CIA Meeting of Fixilo

ctail the contact of NOVEL
ith NAST, anda posal te
PAMMARTS.
the chain

  

as attempted to a
wo InR's connection 7
rion between HAST's organization and
raving, ineicates the only CLA tnvolvenient in

t atten ple to link TU4

tobe be exoloited ia subsequen

ntisir in queation. }

 

than ichiet. wie do ane

“yah bay sl
cay tatieny ¢ SStted Aundmorandar te tie Uhiet,

- @

a.
 

104-10116-10267]

mete @ @ :
oa .7 ff . ‘ oe noe °
éh . gull :

e

A. oo ¥ Theis vlygruphed by Lley a FURR on Garrison's Charges.

 

:
. . +
Gereas wane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the

Garrtsen inquiry, is reported in the Washington proses of 27

Vacel top? oa having been polygraphed the previous day on the °
cary uncer investigation by Garrison. According to the prese
reposts, boWRL nubmitted to a polygraph exainination

congected #t MelLean, Virginta by Lioyd FURR, In statements
to the press, PURR indicated there wae no indication of
deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a
“fran. ;

R. wloyd ) WaAk'e Relationship to Richard L. BAST and REDE X.
Loy? POURR, 4 farmer District of Columbia policeman and now
a vrivate detective, is a self-proclainied polygraph “expert”
ang venad device specialist, He has received publicity in the
pnect ivr planting nound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr.
inthe ‘t. dary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when be
aiec «-red Meteaing devices being used against Bernard Goldfine.
«a In 1944, inforvaation wag received that a Washington, bp Cc.
firs, RIEDEA, operated by FURR and Richard Ly BAST, was
atte.s.pting to sell electronic oquipment to Communist China vis
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with
GR in 1962 to woe equipment offered for sala by FURR. }

C. vichard dy, BAST and REDEX.

Kichard 1, CAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained
notertety ta 1965 by turning up a miselng witness, previously
uniocated by the Department,of Justice, in connection with the
Lobby ‘3aher case. Hie is known to operate at least four
enterprises: |) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, @
urivate elective ABENCYs 2) REDEX VIETNAM, INC., 2 firin
which $. porte a variety of comroodities ranging frora Hiquor to
autre tte into South Vietnam, including, of tate, UL S. -racrulted
Sposa ouirle for @ Saigon nightclub he ja planning; 3) REDDER
Cai... f dtens whieh sella almost anything to anybody abroad,
ather tion Couth Vietnants and 4) CONSOLIDATEL ATNUIMASTENTS,
poo, Ara which salls wimall arme to foreiga governnonta and
yee dwertc tuecividualn abroad. BAST oluo produces and dletril utes
teth  cattiye cadio and counteraudlo devices inthe U.S. and

: Ll. RETURN YO CiA
yen vane {Background Use Only
ner e " Do Not Reproduce
: “sit ja Ay

PORN nt st
oc * *e . : “ @ : . ae © a)
& | stl

he decumented a conversation he had on

.. bey
Bde So wth Raymond CASSAGNOL, an anti-bDuvaller
fa iajti. In the memorandum be relotoes that the
anv cr ti took place fa the hame of Michard 1, PAST
«

 

«it met through a neighbor, Lloyd PUL.
be ‘rondurn relatea CASSAGNOL's background, faietly,
stonce, ete. Reported ag significant by saven faa
. + +4 t..3T that the following week BAST would be
or aor whirtcad of arms to 8 CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
ogee ~oinican Reputlic, Owen noted: “Raymond
cto. 4 il, gives appearance of thinking well of Richard
1 1, according to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,
nlea nows TAST and respects him. Thue LAST, in aoite of
Lvtni- corsonal shortcomings: from the intelligence standpoint,
teapae ome sem ea ectablishad channel to at leant one segiment
tee, cot a appoaettion to Duvaller, Stace according to his
scent, HAST fa eupplyidg arma to CASSACN TEs
‘ transactions of this type vin DASYT presumably
aa at oe fAeult te arrange. " ve ntso provided g detailed
e@ Injartnaiian sn what he learned of BAST, noting that RAST had
oe aponed Doninican distrast of State and AID and the fact that
vule-roused them" (the Dominicans}.

Aan PY repert on BAST dated 19 June 1963 reports co
(hia tdéver) tad

- jp areten Service Reserve Officer, USDS"

ran. ried &6 May 1963.his attendance at dinner at BACT! a hare
old of his meeting with TASTACLOT.

 

    
   

., durther

 

 

on 27 sprit 1963.
acct! jutention to sell arma to the Dominican Peoul tte a vf
Teeh ort

ita alnd reports that on Tosiay |

att, : bles, ete.
Tha trmmabe’ tod,

ito perrdorey aorod txanalation wori..
eelated te HAST giving a power ef atlocucy tae
TI Martinez of the Domintcan epubltc ta ere pare

va

ag as

  

   

 

Lorene

oy ition fer Legal ectablishment of 2 IDEN ConDOSE MEDS
ow OR branch of 5 ST's firm, According to Crven,
BS arts. stack wes to be held by the head of the Th watioual
Soa agency, the head of the DR secret police, and an

intivt oo ‘well-connected with Dominican Republic poites an

he te sane, RAST is aleo noted to have told Owen
idee US UT had made to “bug' the office of tie " ninean

Ve

2
ho a ac
' am. a
