74-0000

SECRET

we should, consider providing a statement of it. - Until we have
tried we wouldn't know what we had. Sturbitts was asked if

_ theré was a JMWAVE history. When he said that there was I

undertook to review the history to see if some general state-
ment of the overall program could be extracted.

5. Jerry Brown raised the question of what Castro could
have assumed, as distinguished from what he knew, observing
that a lot of the Cubans were planning things. Sturbitts observed
that the Agency did support "fronts" that did things we didn't
know. He observed that, in fact, we are making payments to
the families of some of the people involved. There was brief
consideration of what the Agency's responsibility would be for
people that it paid but did not control or direct, The point was
also made that there were Cuban exile organizations, with
which we had no connection, that had programs of their own.

6. There was some general discussion about what the
files would show on incidents questioned in the Schweiker report.
The two aircraft flights from Mexico City to Havana were men-
tioned, it appearing that we know quite a bit about the individual
involved in one of them but nothing about the other; in the latter

_instance there had been no follow-up.

7. Jerry Brown raised a question about Frank Sturgis,
aka Frank. Fiorini. He said that it would take further study, but
there are some indications that Sturgis at one time worked for
Castro in connection with the gambling concessions. This would
have brought him into contact with Trafficante. This connection
might also explain the role of Orta in the original plot, Orta
having also had something to do with the gamblers. Brown pointed
out that if a careful review of this established this connection, it

‘might represent a security flaw in the original Castro plot. As

these possible connections were unknown previously, and as they
have not yet been researched, it was agreed that this was an
important subject for study. Sturbitts noted that none of this
showed in Sturgis! 201 file and it was agreed that Security and .
LA Division should study this together. Brown emphasized that
this is only a possibility and might not stand up under study. It
was noted that this is one of those things that might have been
turned up at the time of the Warren Commission had the Agency
done a more thorough job.

-2-

SECRET
[rod-t0096-10184] oe,

er —SEORET

16 July 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD So

SUBJECT: Schweiker Report Review

1. Yesterday afternoon I met with Bob Wall (CI Staff),
Bill Sturbitts (LA Division), and Jerry Brown (Office of Security).
The purpose of the meeting was to get an idea of the work involved
to review the issues raised in the Schweiker report and to review
what the Agency did in relation to the Warren Commission.

2. I reported that Mr. Knoche did not.wish us to seek .
access to the Warren Commission proceedings at this phase of
our review. .

3. Bill Sturbitts said a with CI Staff,
is very familiar with the LA Division files on much of this subject,

particularly Mexico. Speaking on the provocation/ retaliation
aspect of this, he observed that the Miami Ops and CI files ran
some 5,000 to 10,000 linear feet. There was agreement that this
posed a massive research problem on just the question of provocation.
It was noted that we were discussing "provocation" in its broadest
sense, in terms of the government policy and Agency program;
we probably know the details of the so-called assassination plots
and the files in question would be unlikely to turn up anything new
in this respect. Sturbitts noted that a detailed paper had been
prepared commenting on the information in the book given by
_Castro. to Senator McGovern. .

4. Bob Wall noted that he was Deputy Chief of PM in Miami.
_ for three years. He raised a question as to whether the broader
program was relevant to the issue of provocation, in the terms
posed by the Schweiker report. Later in the discussion he
expressed the opinion that whatever we wrote on the subject might
be a prejudiced interpretation. I expressed the view that the ,
overall program established a context for what happened and that

 

“ a SEGRET
 

8. H was noted that Lonnie Zeibell,now working in OGC
on FQIA;is familiar with much of this. At present he is working
on the Fensterwald FOIA request. It was noted that Fensterwald
claimed that he knew who the man was in the photographs taken
in Mexico, some of which have been made public although cropped
to obscure the background. Larry Houston wrote a memo in 1971
on Fensterwald's claim. Fensterwald, however, has declined
to reveal who the person was. It was suggested as a "long shot"!
that the man's photograph ought to be compared with those of known
Soviet couriers. :

9. Bob Wall said that there were 95 files on Oswald.
Angleton had a dozen folders on the Oswald case including such
things as press reports of the Castro interview on 7 September
1962, and correspondence concerning possible connections with
the Kennedy assassination. He cited a 23 May 1975 memorandum
by Ray Rocca for David Belin, saying in effect that while there
are nuances subject to interpretation, there was no evidence; this
had been laid before the Warren Commission in 1964, :

10. It was noted that Tony Sf¥orza, a former career agent,
had served under the Havana Station prior to the Castro takeover.
Gambling had been his cover. He might be able to provide some
information on the Trafficante/Sturgis question.

il. Bob Wall thought that it would be helpful if there were
written terms of reference for this study, I indicated that I
wasn't sure that the results of this first review had told us
enough to do this very well. I undertook to write a first draft
which I said would be "all-encompassing. '' I noted that there
are two time-frames to be covered--what happened before the
JFK assassination, and what CIA did after the assassination to
collect information and provide it to the Warren Commission,
as it applied to the Cuban connection, There also were two
general subject areas--one of these having to do with the question
of assassinations, as provocation for retaliation, as well as the
broader question of provocation, and the other having to do with
whether the Agency did all it should have in reporting to the
Warren Commission. I said that I would write a first draft on
this and have it to them early next week for discussion. As we
did not yet really know much that we needed to know I was sure
there would be problems with this first draft.

¢ Fal

— 4

ae + md, Bou, “
-& D. Breckinridge

SEGRE!
