 

od0206-10038 ae

SP dy .

ee ee ne gy

   
  
 
 

   
 

7OM conte?’ of Btatton, Gareesa

‘

 

 

 

    

 

Tes Patter tu tose : :
an aa WADE FIND CAN BE IOGED Pay

. OF Quaitet ho Of Onar :

—_L ESBS Se |

. REORZ BY. oh

2 ERTORIBY i

   

: 1, . an ineressing nusber of Cuban exiles are cov arriving 19 Voowauala
os safecembicts are adlouly Losvad by the Cuben Oovertumnt for ssyless in
the varices foreign exheasias in Rolam who took refuge Gurtiag April 198.

- Avong Gece exiles are some. who took an activ part in different under-
gruank aé georrilia groups cppoalig ta Castro ecverment. gone of then
are Low tayang to get vieas so taat ttey can report! shut their eleudss tine
Activities to their superiors in tha Cabas groups in Miagt, CLARE-1 bas
providad Ge dtetion with tha irwes of the Polinwing yeragna 13 this cate-
gory wre bo has dt in they course of Ris activities in trying 'té. balp
‘Te-loosts the Quben dmlies abv'attivicg ia tae epurtry;. . .

| Ge» - Rogar antonio ZUM? farsta - born. 19: Rovanber 1907 |
Bester KER rbd depends to report Svalio DUYE. (Beo aleo ”
aVCK-O332) 7 fo. ; ely .
_ be” Oscar SBCURGARAY Gurreire .- born 4 Apri2 192%, : ee
HER wo inteeie tw report’ to Bvalic YR together with GRRL, -

 

  
 
  
  

     
    
    
    

seat eRe

          
       
    
   
 

 

 

ERSTE yatta Me opeeltng siege

  
  
     
  

(sy ce Erossttno Cooilio ARS Sorta - born UL povembor 102by 5
2.6 JPO" veatoer Want ho was “rempoosahle wiliter® ‘for thn MAR in tho 4
pet . W?Uyiese.of Metanzes vho intents % resort to Dr. Oscar BALAB.. :
: a." Lite Bornbbe 0A Douingues - torn 22 detobar 1936"
Meaber of the Directorio gstudiasttl,  ‘ : ., i

 
 

2 Gaillereo Auralio S802A Buringyse - born 9 February.
1st, ~se@er of the Misetorie Estadiantl, - oo :
. . aoe .
- f. Ets *GARCIA Darlagat - born ®5 March 1941, Moher
of the Usidal fasujuetoparts who used ths nano nu Suutiata
2. Sizes the. local ecnmilete oo losger normally iesves tourist visea |
to aay Cihen exiles but inaicte ‘on thatr applying for inaigrstion visas, .
which require 8". 6 woke wilting tim et s alnimp, ths station “would
arurectete Gey acticn Eeadmerters aay wie to take through liatoon to
suthorize the local cosglate ta issue tourist viuas to the, above nated .
persons. . . . .

 
 

     
 

  

wo peaa se

  
       
       

2 era trom

   

Distritution
@ ~ Sumivg’ | 55 e
2 - Pilse . #

- > on ey a ~ . ‘a

 
