13-00000» “

   

 

- SECRECY AGREEMENT ce

 

7

  

- 1, re zs im accepting émployment
. or assignment with the Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities, recognize the
special trust and confidence placed in me to protect classified infor ~ ,
. mation from unauthorized disclosure. : Lo: : :

. I I hereby agree to accept the specific obligations set forth:
below.as a condition precedent of my employment or assignment with.
. the Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect _
to Intelligence Activities, established by the Senate of the United
: “States, Resolution 21, agreed to on January 27, 1975, hereinafter
: referred to as the Select Committee, :

Iti is my under standing that i in the course of my employment
-or assignment with the Select Committee I will be given access to
information from departments and agencies of the Government which
‘is classified in accordance with the statidards set forth in Executive
». | Order. 11652 of March 8, 1972, as amended, All classified information

50 acquired by me in the course of my employment remains the
property of the United States of America and I further agree to

_ surrender upon demand by the Chairman of the Select Committee

or his designee(s) or upon my separation from the Select Committee,
any classified material. whichshas come into my possession as a_ ,

" .result of my employment or assignment with the Select Committee,

“:

 

I hereby agree that the burden is.on me to determine if |
inforrnation is classified and that I will never divulge, publish or
reveal by word, writing, conduct or otherwise any classified

‘ information which has come to my knowledge as a result of my
employment or assignment with the Select Committee without prior
written consent of the Chairman or the President of the Senate or
their duly authorized xepresentative. -
 

Thereby agree that any information learned during my

employment or assignment with the Select Committee which is related

to intelligence and prepared for publication by me will be submitted to_
the Chairman or the President of the Senate or their duly authorized
representative prior to discussing with or showing to any publisher,
editor or literary agent for the purpose of determining whether said

. Material contains any classified information as defined in Executive

Order 11652. Iagree that the Chairma of the Select Comumittee,

- President of the Senate or their duly authorized representative has
‘the authority to make the final determination as to whether information
is classified and thus should be deleted from the material submitted.

Yhave been informed of the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 793, 794,

'° 798 and 952; and 50 U;S.G, 783 (b); and. 42 U.S.C. 2274; and Executive ~

Order.11652, all of which relate to the protection of classified infor—~

. mation, and understand their meaning. . . . oe

“mental reservations or purpose of evasion.

 

Further, I agree to: abide by s such rules ‘and procedures as the

‘Select Cormrittee shall institute for the protection of classified material.
> ~ Lunderstand that any breach of any part of the obligations in this agree-
‘ ment could subject r me to legal. and/ or. administrative action,

ror further agree ‘that all the conditions and obligations imposed

“on ‘ xne with respect.to the protection of. “classified information by this

agreement and applicable security regulations apply during my employ-
ment or assignment and continue after that relationship has terminated.

I take the obligations set forth above freely and without any ,

  

   

 

 

 

Signature : re . te

Date.
   
    
    
   

a compartmented area.

*. that they will entertain and consider security principles and guide—

 

of the technology of the technical collection programs. . It would also .
be desirable if the Select Committees adopted the use of Compart-

- mented Control: Systems to protect documents on these programs
‘and cleared only those staff personnel with an absolute need-to-know,

The responsible departments and agencies would be glad to advise.
and assist in‘any arrangements the Chairmen would desire i in this

Ae Further; it would be desirable if the DCI attempt to. _-_
secure an agreement with the Chairmen, of the Select Committees = .

Hines which will be Provided.

 

 

oe + meer Prersome
 

AGREEMENTS TOBE SOUGHT BY THE DCI WITH
. - . GHAIRMEN OF THE SELECT COMMITTEES

de ‘lt would be desirable if the Der could secure ¢ agréement |
. with the Chairmen of the Select Committees; as has been customary.
in. other Congressional proceedings regarding sensitive ¢ matters, fhat:

tee ’ fa). ‘Departinents’ and agencies shall have the ‘right |
to ‘request that testimony be givenlonly in executive session,
‘that in some instances testimony be "off-the-record"™ and - —_
that certain testimony be heard only by members and in os
"some cases s only by the Chairman and Vice Chairman.
_ tle ey: Witnesses be. afforded. an wn opportunity to review Looe
— and ‘comment on and/or correct the record of their testimony. ,
_ Prior to any papneessen of it. -

  

“{e) When que \ stoned about intelligence matters that |
- eome under the purview of another organization, witnesses.
should be permitted tg state that a response to the question |
- is not properly within their authority and to respectfully .
. suggest that the appropriate party be called to testify on
: such Inatter se

 

. Bs “tt would ‘also be desirable if the DCI could. secure agreement
“swith the Chairmen of the Select Committees that those agencies
: ae furnishing documerits to the committees be- authorized to excise from
| those documients, prior to presentation, the names of their personnel
“under cover or whose personal safety might be jeopardized as wellas —

—

_ “ aaa those of other individuals whose Satety or individual privacy. may be _ 7

. jeopardized by disclosu¥é. Also’ excised should be names of sources,
operations, specific details of technical devices and systems main-
| tained in compartmented channels and names of organizations
: cooperating ona highly c confidential basis. .
| 3.- In. view of their susceptibility to 5 foreign countermeasures,
it would be desirable if the DCI could obtain agreement. with the
Chairmen of the Select Committees not to require presentation of details

 

 

 
13-00000 . .

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ©

hs. Coty] pn tr Knoche met wth
Chairman Otis Pike at 9:30, 7/24 in Chairman Pike's office

to discuss groundrules, etc. for the House Select Committee
on Intelligence,

Mr. Colby left the following material with Pike:

1. 16 June 1975 Letter to the Honorable Elmer B. Staata~
Comptroller General of the United States, Signed by
Mr. Colby. The letter deals with the GAO's audit
of the Central Intelligence Agency. (Attached) .

2. Guide to Central Intelligence Agency Statutes and Law
dated September 1970 (without the Ryan Amendment
on Foreign Intelligence). Pied i in 6p0120)

3, Three Groudrules papers: (Attached)
--Agreements To Be SoufhtBy the DCI With chairmen \,
of the Select Committees

x . --Secrecy Agreement

. =-Guides for Protection of Classified Information
~ “And Documents Furnished The Select Committee...

 

4, 7 ‘March 1975 1 Letter : from Colby to Senator Church,
(Attached)

 

 

 

 

 

npemreeeennrpecre “eevee on ity Se a NE ONE etme tet tk me moe ae
. ae

 

SECRET

 

Checklist for DCI Discussion with HSC

,

- Your intent to be cooperative and forthcoming.

Your responsibility to protect S&M “Will need HSC understanding

of particularly sensitive matters: ’ ’
~enames of agents. and sources..

'

~-names of cooperating American organizations and
contacts to whom we have pledged confidentiality. _

--material from foreign liaison,
-+sensitive intelligence methods and techniques of collection.

will need to work out segurity groundrules,

=-Chairman of USIB Security Committee and CIA Director

of Security available to help work out custodial arrangements,
compartmented clearances, etc.
. a we

Importance of secrecy agreements, Your willingness to ‘suspend
ther to permit testimony by current and ex-employees.

: Will confirm with a letter and an employee bulletin which

can be used by HSC in dealing with Agency witnesses and
interviews. / . 7;

mae a

24 July 1975

   

 

   

Exompt trom general
deciasaification schadule of F.0. 11652
exemption schedute SB (1), (2), (3)
Automaticatiy declassified on
Date Impossible to Determine

      
 

SECRET

 
 
13-00000 :

 

and methods of operations of services, provided
_that such data will be drawn from open sources

 

 

“arrangements wath the services themselves.

c. Agency manhours and funds devoted to
liaison with the foreign services.

d. In the case of SIGINT liaison, further
details on such arrangements, including the
scope of funds and equipment provided to such
foreign services.

d. We are prepared to provide general
comments on the degree of operational coopera-
-tion with the Station. If technical support,
for example, provides a useful input, we can
state that the liaison service provides
technical support, using a qualifying adjective
to define, such as excellent, limited, etc.

3. We have no objection to the provision of
foreign intelligence reports based‘on liaison with

‘such services. Source descriptions should be those

used in the disseminated report.

4. We will not make available details on
liaison arrangements, information on sources and

methods of such services which have been obtained ©

through liaison or jointly controlled sources or
other information which would reveal Agency sources
and methods or violate the trust on which the

. official liaison relationship is based.

S. The S&I Staff approves close liaison
relationships and believes that these relationships
are cost effective.

 

o/sa/po/o| kaw (1542)

Distribution :
Original - C/AF
’ 1 - C/EUR
1 - C/NE
1 - C/SE
2 - SA/DO/O

~ SECRET

nd not from details of liaison ~
 

fo, SECRET SECURITY.
: ; ; . FoR Co AMT T

11 March 1977

 

 

 

 

 

’ : 6, owt

MEMORANDUM FOR we wt)
Chief, Africa Division fa

. . pot “fet

fe 4

Chief, Europe Division

 

Chief. Near East Division

 

 

 

 

 

: CHIE, SOVIET/ EAST EUTOpean Division

FROM :

SUBJECT . : Guidelines for Providing Information
to the House Appropriations Committee
Surveys and Investigations Staff
Concerning Foreign Intelligence and
Security Services

 

 

1. Since members of the S§&I Staff will be
talking with your Divisions in the near. future,
it may be worthwhile to review the guidelines as
to what may be said concerning relationships with

foreign liaison services. In the broad sense,
liaison services constitute both a source and a
method.

2. We are prepared to discuss the following:

a. The identification and responsibili-
ties of the liaison services.ina particular
area to the extent that we can draw on
sources other than information derived through
the established liaison relationship, i.e.

overt informatio
which will not endanger the source.

 

 

 

 

 

 

b. In further describing the liaison
services, we can provide information on the.
objectives, key personnel, strength, budget

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012860

SECRET

 
 

Guidelines for Providing Information
to Congressional Oversight Committees on
Foreign Intelligence and Security Services

These guidelines take into account the fact that
foreign intelligence and security. services, when acting
in connection with the Agency's official liaison with
them, constitute both a source and a method and thus
require the statutory protection accorded any other
intelligence source or methods The guidelines also
recognize that the duly constituted oversight bodies of
the Congress have expressed an interest in such services |
and in the general scope, nature and extent of the Agency's
relationships with them. The purpose of these guidelines
is to provide a formula for dealing with these two

- sometimes conflicting objectives.

The Agency is prepared to provide, upon specific
request, appropriately classified and sanitized information
to oversight committees on the following aspects of
foreign intelligence and security services:

a. The identification of the governments with
whose services CIA has liaison arrangements;

b. Agency man hours and funds devoted to
liaison with forcign services;

c. In the case of SIGINT liaison, further

details on such arrangements, including the scope of

 
13-00000 ' “

ee >

funds and equipment provided to such forcign services;

d. Information on the objectives, key personnel,

strength, budget and methods of operation of such services,

provided that such data will be drawn from open sources] |

Jere not from the details of liaison

arrangements with the services themselves;

 

 

e. Where relevant, foreign intelligence reports
based on liaison with such services.

- The Agency will not make. available to the oversight
committees the details of liaison arrangements with
foreign services, information on sources and methods of...
such services obtained through liaison or jointly
controlled sources, or other information which would

reveal Agency sources or methods or violate the trust on
which these official liaison relationships is necessarily
based.
In the event of substantial allegations of improper
activities conducted by foreign intelligence or security
-services with which the Agency is presumed to maintain
liaison, every effort will be made to provide all relevant
facts which bear on such allegations. Where this would
; involve departure from the above guidelines, the Director
will be prepared to meet with the Chairman or Vice-Chairman

i of the committee to seek a satisfactory resolution of such

problems. a

 
