 

104-10178-10019

 

 

 

 

 

 

eas ra? Rarcel victwr Wh laals, © invades Qo nOF

PmBendn deg de dented B42HS he AUF Y Mee OAD
se & Ne

 

fe teaty Leddy vers) .
ein sot ° Beta Can Bf ROCID
fF QUALEHD HQ ORE OMT
an a TN a eR fe anaiaenees
OPEEP PAL Fhe -

 

hie 275;

Uhatriutans

eo dee pe bea wes rtabenraittoy seb mw

  
 
   

 

  
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

[70 (hut bo Os, nedrady VU, vermery uF Le, a te] TT ISAKS]

ae hee

le eooal narcel sictor allialm citi A we Wak Oreaet bo tae attention uf
toe @ ane Ug the oucyect of ralurince wc WiSited hawk. Abo i sadrid frum
if w 2 tetriar, 99 and again during Une wees 22 1S Ard byize IS, who
et te tise wf tie Fetroasy Viet Was ihotalieg a. bn cere) Luternatdonel, mearta,
re,ortedly has very gucd relalia.e with bing emirte of ataly, Fresoert mg PALIK
of Levanon, the raal suncio of Madriu, [heveliean, WhoclbaA, ane ;EANAT Av AS, 18
also repurtealy kmows all of tae LA menlera ang ted | articipated in all tne FL
aeetang® Wich have tasen ; lace in nedrice um lo Sey tccver Jy 2 a Qaalis wos
nentenced to life in, rasunment for maruer Bes tnet te (id vactun was & atuuen’
oy Ue name OF Yeul UST.) On ly beceaer ayisy ead wau Ssitenced to death
af dws of all pryerty by toe ogo Uriminal wuurt io Paras sor collaboration
wth toe enerny, asiats is mumtacned in the triad of harccail revaDN (7 Aazsust
dyu,) a8 @ clove GCuwiGant ana adviser af aliken, Wn § Decerinr lys> ne CHAN
setried Site alluelaina ¢reliad (0 wcamber an75, dawnoer, versany) in nadrid, She
1B Fuportedly a doctor. shay nave S.ice -met sted and 19 wow living dna verlinf
nermocorl, cmrlinerstrusse 53055, (. lL. Decerser Jyp> ane wat isd .eu & verman
passport (numper 735055) uy wie Cerman sebensy, MaGrlue AROMAS 33 usocriled a
being anteisijent and cultivaced, Bib also «77 aflmainates lus mtject {fe Spd 7D
GCerieves tant nunEhANS 13 waged In varicus iiiegal uncertekino, but did-nut 2?
eyecify Mich tnese maghs 5% ol

2. The Suatect us (tino roported tol-¢ vast Ljtret quring nis Aprak,
visit to KARAS the la vold nis that te fac reseikiy coon «visited oy Lilt
ciYictals fron Bast werlin wc nad asred aim to work for thee as ing estaulish his
resluence in west iweling ncKAMA,S ula net raveal to dunlect of Cie big at 27
the mature af tho work was to oe, but ie dig oi ue tras no wat ,OTh, take up
Feoldence at rerlinf/nermoorf, curlinerstre 9J \ the auaress ol min estranged wifes
9 anced wnat thy MOM o.ficlals promiseu to ou, Ly fam Wits idm documented Lone
tty nad tried unsuccessfully ln the pot tee 2h MOO% VHT te uOcumen tat den,
(Ee 88 ALGrcuh ne was Lorn emt Pes iiaea ALS Ls now a stateless parsone)
\S-

de cetdyuarters and ao Miu fara f. atten to sy ly the vtat lon with

aiy anformabien watch aign' availably oo. 2ibttAnde Cy art) wtavion fhlea,

 

 

 

+
:
4
i

WS, Larlina| Treced are rejinstes o: clte Pane eee and the
aes Food of wich ave Ts Papurwealy Living, (bas: tiles, wty) :

nth, GUO ac white, plnssee

 

 

Se {s, vermny} HI traces only <a rise.
25%

ib day 1959 dict Me soluthorpe

 

)3/GR

 

 
