hy - > (0 ELthig /SSHols7s

 

3. A review of the circumstances surrounding Mr. a
Hunt's conversion to Contract Type A employment and ,
ssignment was then undertaken by Messrs. Yale, Giea
otsohyfand the undersigned. The contract and payroll.
iles sf Mr. Hunt were reviewed for possible indications
of the nature of the operational activity undertaken in
Madrid. <A review of travel vouchers indicated that Mr..
Hunt and his family made accountings indicating departures
from Washington, D. C., on 5 August 1965 with an arrival .
' im Madrid, Spain,.on.16 August 1965. The costs of this ..”.
travel were charged to the budget of the Western inv.
_sphers Division, Deputy Directorate for Plans,
Station Support account. A subsequent accouting sum-. .
_ marized PCS travel expenses and included a payment for. -
' apartment rental. for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 with au"...
'- payment in the amount - of (#125 to Mee for.”

. this purpose.

 

' 4. It was determined that an allottes bank | account »
in Mr. Hunt's name had been established at the Riggs. .__ .
National Bank: of Washington. All salary and other non-.
* operational reimbursements were made to Mr. Hunt through ©
sterile check to this account. An operational etcount . .

.. .. was established for Mr. Hunt with the Chase Manhattan . : mo
vies Bank of New York City. A review of all payments made to
Mr. Hunt through the Chase bank account. through Mr. Hunt's
operational advance subsidiary account, or 1442 account, .
had been made. -‘There was no tecord of any operational ~~
“accounts or. advances being processed through this channel. °..
Mr. Yale stated that this fact defined his concern, He... —
felt that it was inconceivable that Mr.- Hunt could have °: -
-undertaken operational activity without some transfer of”

- 9F accounting for funds, To date, no such records have .

been developed. No reference to a project or project
(digraph or operational FAN number has been located, Al -
~ expenses connegted with wnt identified to date were -.-
di t Support. A review made of -
records has not indicated any "Developmental _.
nd Target of Opportunity (D§TO)" funds or "Other Opera--
tional Activity (O0A}" funds expended by or on behalf of -
Mr. Hunt. These two accounts would normally be the source _
of operational funding not. charged against a. specific 3 POM
ject. activity. : a : a Ck “ae

    
     

    
 
     

 

 

2

 

_ “- .

s 2037 (S33 SiTHVE
 

[tos-oo3t0043] .

Age

  

 

     

nn a aes
- EG Oe
| 31 February 1974. yy

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD”

    
   

_ SUBJECT: ‘Office of Finance Records - Be Howard Hunt ae

 

> 7. 4. On the instruction. of Mr. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief 9. |
' of Operations, PSI, the undersigned made an. appointment |
for the, afternoen of 20 February 1974 to interview Mr,
ri Inian?Caufiela)

yp wa Chief, Certification and Liaison Divie ¢°
“sion, Office of Finance, and a fo: ‘Finance ~
on the subject z,/ cae BE. Howard Hunt. & outset. of |.

_ thé interview Mr./Cafield/advised-the undersigned that _
.. nstruction had been received from the Director of ‘the.
Office of Finance, Mr.. Thomas Yale, that discussion on” °

'. the subject of Mr. Hunt was to be carried out only with “- .-
_ the Office of the Inspector General, Mr.jCaufield]stated ~~

| that he had informed Mr. Yale of the requested interview... moe
and had received this instruction with the suggestion . ml
that the undersigned contact Mr.. Yale directly with any

 

- 2. Accompanied by Mr. tautieid _the undersigned §..
|. briefed Mr. Yale on the nature of the request and iden-
tified the "Task Force” effort being undertaken by the...
Office of Security in concert with the Offices of the — a7
' Inspector General and Legislative Counsel, Mr. Yale a a
responded that he recognized the legitimacy of the ine =
quiry. Mr. Yale explained that subsequent to initiation | co
of the complete audit being undertaken by ue Of UR
_ the Audit. Staff, the Deputy Director for Managémen¥ ‘and |
‘Services, Mr. Harold L. Brownman, had requested the a
“o O£Zice of Finance to discontinue their investigation of: :
\. My. Hunt to avoid duplication. Mr. Yale added paren=  -. 2.
' thetically that.it was the natura of Finance Officers. .
net to Isave a job half done and that an "informal”™ -- |.
-ainquiry into Mr. Hunt’s financial records had neverthe- .- cel
less continued at a more. subdued. pace. ry

  

 
  

  
  

*“Backgrourid Use Onh |
'.. Do Not Reproduce « ood

  

 . 0 BQ AMPDET
, - : 2. CL BY 011696.

   
74-0000

 

. | sources or identification of o rational funding was in
advance account of Mr. Hunt be reviewed for. other possible
After discussion, it was agreed that particular attention

- . be taken te any items connected with publishing or book
_ Yoyaities. Mr. Yale noted that the royalty offset waiver

' Intention to interview Mr. Edward Ryan,
_ Division D, who was at the tine of Mr.

an Executive Officer for Mr. Thomas Karamessines. Mr, Yale:
' have del

5. A review of all of the travel vouchers on record

for Hr. Hunt during this period also failed to identify ~
_a project. In addition to the PCS and return vouchers, =
two other accountings are on record, - One accounting ; .
covered a trip by the entire Hunt family to Paris "for
the renewal of visas.” A second voucher covered a TDY
trip from Madrid to Washington with return to Madrid =;
mada by Mr. Hunt from 5 January to 8 January 1966. The -
voucher states in the space provided for the citation of —-
the travel order number - "ng travel order.” The account~ <_-

 

 

 
 
     
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

then Beputy Director for Plans, - ‘No

6. -Mr. Yale determined that. further review of possible
order. Mr. Yale gave instruct ons that the entire 2442 oo
channels of funding outside of the New York Chase account,

provision ammended to Mr. Hunt's contract was, in his ex-
perience, somewhat unusual, ET pe

 

Dee

7, ur. Yale was informed by the undersigned of the oe

  
   
 
   
   
 
   
    

ment, Deputy Chief of the Western Hemis . 7
Yale suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviewed.

The undersigned informed Mr. Yale that this had been dove”
‘and briefed Mr. Yale on the: generally negative results of .
‘the interview. Mr..Yale then recommended that Mr. Sam ..

Stated that from his experience, br. Karamessines would

 

3

2
y

° gageey /agastTiyE a
74-0000

   

 

8. The undersigned assured Mr. Yale that he would be

informed of any information identifying any possible project
‘activity developed in subsequent investigation. Mr. Yale oo
stated that any information in this area would greatly = 9 *O.
facilitate the job of checking computorized. financial -
records,  .- - a!

      

Lawrence J. Howe ~

 

   
  

4

,
> Fs Ses tae aby hd
- SESRET/SLUSITIVE
