a -\ CONTINUATION OF . ,
igor BAEPATEH lo.

arms and equipment. They sre also gounting on aid from other
countries, such as Mexico and Venevupla.

 

‘3. AMRERF-1 furnished the f information on 21 Deceabers

. T,
“PY PERSO IT (AVON ED Wi SPs Bue Anvil CUsA &
NX bu ®ipaayh ree Cheetah of T¥-Ruvolucion, between 10:00 .

soso sore heces re is a progran called pafia al Die.” Eugenio

in charge/’of the ere which is related to

mia ovals eee tion with the Cubep Sampa: ag it
tha, Franc "Eitreds ‘aides the

9 egine. On 16
of Cine 8 3 nent don the an ag having
called a mesting of all Spanish organiza‘ions to

k for the release
of the political prisoners in Spain.

  
 
  
 

le Attached for WE ie a copy of a flysheet put out by the Ejercito de
Liberacion Espafiol. Source is sttempting to obtain a copy of the magazine and
one of the "bonos."

Attachment:
Plysheet

- ao aay
- CARD .c/att
1 ~ C/E wate b/w
1 - Files -o/att

PKT/fdh

22 Desember J 's0

  
EES : PTET

OTT ATER BYERROL APE) BEL). iz
.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“he DISPATCH . SoBeC R-Et HEHA-7266
7 Cnet, Ma . 7-21 ) °
H o% © Chief, WE - . f
By , 233 ad
ie 6 Sree |
oting Chief of Station, Habans ne D -ecenber 1960 '
res Spanish Exile Activities in Cuba [TX] aaecto toe moe’ .
if _. es in MT i
} Acre mraRaEo ~~ oO : NOELING CAM BE AJDGED i
i Rone 87 QUALIFIED HQ OFA onty :
| : a ve .
A 7, 8 Auguat 1960 :
B 15 daly 1960. (not received) -

“0 HEHA-6LL7, 8 June 1960
DS 2587, 3 May 1960

   

(Movimiento da Liberacton. which alse includes the Spanish
Republican Movement (Movintento epublicano Ee pl). me eso ef cals,
co-ordinator of the movement in Guba is Rodrigo The
ad ef the "wilitary* f the movement Steger er ng 1 drwy
P tajor Eloy Beno The co-ordina for the Province of
Fd
is Manuel | ised at the present tine
ing his absence he is being replaced by his brother
; 8 Jas-Algi player. The BARRENAS brothers are both

Sp There aré also provincial co-ordinators in the different
provinces, and some of the municipalities also have co-ordinators,

    

 

 

rhe Grr ¢_novenent are located ou Walla Paseo, betwwon
Calle 15 and Calle 17, in Vedado, Habana. The eect oumber unber of the

ation has not yet been rained, since there are no signs to
indicate in which building it is. This metter is being investigated
further.

 

It has been learned that within a few days there will arrive in
Habana @ person coming from Belgium who was obliged to leave that |
country because the authorities were persecuting him. focording to —. !
the person who furnished this information, this pereon is well versed
in ali matters relative to the organisation and functioning of this
type of sovement.

During conversations between the investigaters and Spanish
residents in Cubs it has been learned that the movement hes had very
. little success in ite propaganda work in Cuba, The Spanish residents
all gay that the leadership of the movement has fallen into the hands
of the Communists who ere active, one way or another, in Spain, It
j is the general opinion that s group of Spanish exiles in Ouba are -
' using this movenent es a means of earning a living. -

  
 

; 7 One of AMPAIN investigators has been asked to be the eo-ordinater
of the movement at the Municipality of Marianao, Hebana, He ase!
this position unlese he receives orders to the contrary. 25 7. ~od/

a ite oe

2. On 2h October the same source furnished the following information: .

isa ion of all the Spanish revolutionary organisations, of
t

 

@ copy apon. t also iscuse
tions ead plane to age’ the nonsy to Dy

 
