13-00000

REPRODUCTION
SECRET — PROMIBITED

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VUIr

 

to Department of State, Department of the
Navy.,s.-and.,the.. Federal Bureau of Investiga-

 
 
  
 

Enteral. Note » Prom ROCCA to HELMS, dated
March. 1964. [XAAZ-22803 - FOIA No.
Kore: 250}.

3. Indgphal Note from ANGLETON to ROCCA, dated
12 May 1964. [XAAZ~22809 - FOIA No. 689-"
298] :

4. Memorandum for RANKIN, dated 1 aly 1964; <>
subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time
in Helsinki on 10 October 1959. _Aduplgeate
of FOIA No. 758-325] -

  

 

 

0052136

pe —
_— PROMERTED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

if

1

a] . a

: i gi? E887
{

SEERET Damas’

 

  
 
  

SR/CI/Research: $.Duncanzel oo
Rewritten: RHelms/ecd - 1 July ri
Distribution:

oS

Feat
13-00000

DCI:
H:
(tape) mem

_ ec: DDCI
. DD/P

- REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED.

 

  

seen nny (

a a oP |

OU 2156

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of

the passport to the man to come back to this country and that

has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc. — '
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the |
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned, It is his :
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be !
sure that whatever is said in the report is conferred in and it |
is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will |
have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said i
and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make. :

Well that will be fine. Thank you

Good bye.

 

~ SEGREI

REPRODUCTION =
PROUD
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROMBITED

a i
oe (602134

ene me
eu een dd se oe

ae

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 ~ 11:20 a.m, te

DCI: i just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you ali the help that we possibly can in connection
with your investigation of the situation.in Dallas. I know
the importance the President places on this investigation
you are making. He asked me personally whether CLA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just
wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

Hi We have had the very best support that we could possibly ;
expect from you. ~~

DCL: Good. Well you can call on us for anything we have.

E: : We will feel free to do that

Dect: I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and Iam delighted that the President has called on you to
make it. ,

H: We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various

wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man
was the right man etc. that fired the gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have
dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter i: Mexico City.
We have now found that the: photograph that was ta cen was not
that of Oswald. We do find from our informant down there that
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has -
given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit
to go back te Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it wald take three
weeks. He had, I think, a visitor's permit for about a week or
ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

 

DCI: Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have
those operational sources down there. We want to handle them
very carefully. It involves.some very high level people down
there. Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.

Bibawhiced /

H: Mc. Katzenbach Who is handling it for the Department -_

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will

. SECRET of course go over it very carefully because. it will be a report
" that will be released to the public, probably through the White .

REPRODUCTION ==
PROMOTED «PIO
13-00000

Oo REPRODUCTION
} PROHIBITED

. °6. The second point in the referent memorandum
. concerns the papersQthat were available at Headquarters
on Oswald before eho Way of the assassination. Speqif-
ically, there wake ve documents which had been .g@xe
the Agency befe e assassination. Two of th ents

: as the FBI, two by the D ment a,
L the S Navy. A 201 file

pened oat December 1960: on the@ “38s 2248)

: t of these five doc
£4 ee records that had b

  
     
 
  
  

 

   
  

 

ring y

an ney: onent. The Mexico C stlon eporting |
of the m ing of Oswald's activi Lk co had not
as yet been included in the 201 file. Tk tinent cables

from Mexico City were held at the Mexico b¥anch at Head~
quarters, while the data contained in them had been ;
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were
incorporated into the file following the assassination -
and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
‘including the Warren Commission.

7. It should be noted that no particularly great
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald hefore the assassination because Oswald's
name had-no pare ar meaning before that a Nevent. H

 

 

Th regarding the records we presen
before eee ation as well as the ma £ GE

compute svsystem were explai

Warren, Genbere G s Commission, an
Dye 64

  
  
 
   

    
   

Commissian members when the d. "Eee
Teak for the expre Sf aN ewing the
Nerols we employed 7 keeping

B ur 201 file on ‘bswald a shown to them
at the t - From all I have heard regaXding this visit,
the visitors were satisfied with our records system and
the manner in which we kept our records.

Peul liartran

go02408
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED

Telephone Conversation between DCI and J. Edgar HOOVER
26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m.

REPRODUCTION
* PROHIBITED

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

“REPRODUCTION — ser
— PRORIBITED
13-00000

pe REPRODUCTION
, PROWIBTED

CONFIDENTIAL EX~ /093.L :

    

ion with the Agenc

 
 

 

 

e))

MaYiorandum of Conversation, Dan
auezRather/Les Midgley and the DCI,
2°? Dated 6 September 1975

 

     
     
 
   
 

which require comments. The first point concerns
allegations that were made shortly after the assassination
of President Kennedy and that axe crept up every so often
since then. In one form or x, the allegations are
that Lee Harvey OSWALD naacee 2 connected with the Agency.
The allegations are totaly ur

 
   

  

1. The referent memorandum contains two points

.2. The facts re

- 4 NS
. a. On 2 . beset
° Mr. R.G.Roc ? te superior at that time, to
make a tho: checks}

thin the Agency at Headquarters
to determin e

  

conceivable way. le ordered me to make the checks
directly and personally to the degree possible and not
to accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex-
plained that he was following instructions from-Mr. R.
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one ; rof the

Agency's key contact officials with the Warren. on H
Commission. oo.

 

b. Although I had already checked ihe } Main Index
of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, I
rechecked the Main Index and found no: record beyond
that which I had already obtained.béfore (plus: those
items which had been integrated into. the- records system
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO
records which indicated any Agency connection with .
OSWALD.

fa
a

oe FOV Review on NOV 1976 [ RECORD COPY

GIDL heh

| REPRNOUETION 0002105 © . nar ill 6
— PROGIBITED |

 
104-10266-10002

eo -— REPODUETION
PROSIBITED

 

 

 

3. Memorandum for Chief; Ci ‘staff, dated 18 Sep-
tember 1975; subject:. Allegations of Lee : .
Narvey OSWALD's Connection with the Agency.

[EX-10932 - FOFA No. 1188-1000]

 

 

CUG21Ng

AEPROOUCTION wep = ttt
PROHIBITED =

 
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRONIBNTED

Be, C SONFIDENTIAL = (

 

There was no *@soyd in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements: were thén made for me to check
telephonicaly with -each DCD base in the US. The
chiefs ofthe basesthen serached their records
and spoke wi “their officers. I was then advised
by each Gf ehe\eblefs ox their designees individ-
<

ua <pth (eaere had been no contact with OSWALD.
Se AN
; da

. K en checked with’ Division D, SE Division,
and LA Division's Cuban Operations Group (COG) for |
any informal desk records. The results were like-
wise negative.

e. Through the Secytity Research Section
acuity I had the security

 
 
 
 
 
   

 

“mo records on Americans,

    
  

£. Although

I checked their
on the remote
something on

. files.

in, and Cuban holdings

c. component I checked was DCD.
1
thak they may have recorded

EX” ,
g.- In ‘wy e@ the chief of the CI Staff's
Administrative Office called the Office of Personnel
.and received the word that there was no record on an |
employee or an applicant for employment named Lee :
Harvey OSWALD. — 7

 

h. I also checked the Office of Medical .
Services and found no record on OSWALD.

i. he Covert Action Staff also foulid no record
on him. Seg

j. Finally, I also checked the records: of:-the
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group: (CI/OA). with
negative results. woe

 

cane a gn

k. My checks were completed on: 4.December 1963

and I then sent a brief informal note to Mr. Rocca |
\

° - ;
!

2

CNL

0002106

REPRODUCTION =

PAGE 3

PROD
REPRODUCTION
Oo PROWIBITED

0 ( RBNAIDENTAL

   

sr ae 2
that oe ‘

   
 
 
 

Yy a statement to this effect
to the Warren Commission.

 
  

 
 

eo

ASK. Simita checks regarding use or employment~*
of OSWALD -Ha en requested by the foreign divisions . >
of their priate stations, I was told, and the ae
results were negative. . _

4. 2 recall very clearly that we were extremely
concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an American: returning
_ from the USSR, might have been routinely debriefed by
DCD, thus having established contact with the Agency.
The same point has now, quite understandably, beén made
by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this
subject I have personally concluded that there is valid
. Xeason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time. \
He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD
had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before
1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners, j
particularly by Americans, before that time was quite |
uncommon and we were hungry for eyewitness information in
those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end
of that decade @ were so many persons travelling to ; ;
and from the Soy fe{union that DCD was incapable of talk- i
ing to all of Therefore, a program of selectivity : |
and specificctaryet , pplicability was instituted. In ;
light of th&aBove, seems to me that OSWALD-- if he

     
  
  

  

came to Debt sacar ent: m at all--would have easily been
by-pass bec: he simply did not possess the type of
information ED was seeking at that time. DCD would

its limited Manpower on travellers who.

 

‘Se ee hould be added that my above-described :
search in e Agency file holding produced no record or |
indication that any other US Government agency had -used i
him as a source or had considered him for recruitment. |

CONFIDENTIAL

eT
PROMIGITED ~

 
