4 : a SECRET

position that internal deliberative type documents will not be released (as in the Chester Il ISCAP case).

These strategies have been developed by Barry Harrelson, the DO’s JFK Team, and Chuck
Briggs who.is our most senior annuitant on the project. Ed Cohen ard | agree that these positions make
sense from a perspective of best protecting core DO equities. We need your approval on the above
approaches and any similar compromises that may be necessary today and tomorrow as we move ina
“white heat" on the Board's final demands in the closing days of their tenure. .

\
Many Thanks.

LEE

ce: - William H. McNair@DO

loria Boyd @DO
: \C-@ DCI (bec: James FR. Oliver)
Sent on ptember 1998 at 11:39:08 AM

SECRET
104-10334-10201

eoh

i

ns: . SECRET

ccey{_

CL REASON: Section 1.5 ¢
DECL ON: Xt
ORV FRM: HUM 4-82

From the Desk of Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group / CIA

NOTE FOR: Donald R. Cryer@DO

FROM: Lee S. Strickland
OFFICE: OIM
DATE: 09/29/98 11:39:08 AM

SUBJECT: URGENT: Points for DDO Decision re JFK Board
Don, .

As you know, OIM has been working with the JFK Board to ensure that all critical DO equities are
. protected despite the Board’s penchant to release everything even remotely related to the JFK
assassination. However, in the last few days of the Board's tenure, their demands have become more
strident and we need your approval on the following strategies for negotiations today.

1. The Walt Elder document. This is a summary of the(Agency’:
(in Washington with "Iden" substituted for lord and the narie(o ___|The details
létt if the dociment reveal that it was a in Washingtori, We believe we may be able to have the

Board defer release if we provide an oral, classified briefing on the facts to the 5 cleared Board members
-- as we have on several other occasions this year on other matters. If you approve this classified briefing,
we would also advise the Board that if they do not agree to defer, we will, without question, recommend an
appeal to the President. :

 

 

 

2. The Mexico City Station History. Largely agreed, the sticking pdints are a few segments
’ which contain the root part of the relevant crypt (LICASA) and other details which reflect that our asset
Ww nd that.we got lots of good stuff, etc.) We ask your concurrence to compromise on the
base of the crypt (CASA) since it reveals nothing more than has already been released BUT stand fast
and firm on the details of the source and the goodness of the také/and tell the Board -- nicely of course --
that they may release "CASA" but we will again go to the President on the remainder.

 

 

 

 

 

3. The Administrative Traffic. Surely one of their more ridiculous demands. However, they
have the authority and the precedent since the FBI gave them tons of such material. They want every
scrap of paper which documents the Agency's processing of the Board’s requests. It could cover, for
example, all of my and your e-mail which concerns the Board. We would like to say no and seek their
agreement by addressing only the 57 cables which concern our (and the Board's interaction) (with the }

(rom thaie requests AND the 5 underlying deciarations that were completed recenily and
which formed the basis for the ExDir’s public declaration. Each of these documents would be properly
redacted before release. This isa prudent compromise in my view since it well preserves the CiA’s

 

 

 

SECRET
