104-10169-10013

. * ATTACHMENT TO DISPATCH UFGS-1376 dated ! May 1962, U/s/c

. . . ar on . . : :
TO : Chief, - 7 A May 1962 :
Chief, Task Force Ww . : i

ATIN, =: Chief, . . : ‘

 

  
  
       
  
     

"FROM. 3 “Tatercogatton Rescarch Diviston re ee
; "sua sect: wo, Bvelte Duque: “) Aape 69262

 

pemits DATA

; ‘ Gubject of thie report te fvelto Duqua ‘WEVA, bora ‘ts Deceuber
1926 in Trinided, Cuba, Subject wae technically interrogated | ‘on

10 April 1962 at a covert site in South Mianf, Floxida. «The inter
rogetion we conducted in Spaniei through/[Hr. Frederick Mender son [a
who acted as interpreter and included such topics as Coamuniss, —~
Personal History, vulnerability to blackmail, end association with
intelligence organizations. At the request of the Case Officer, |
Hag was also aked specific questions about useing war nenes'

  

ee

  
    
    
 

  

       
       
 

 
 

o 21 Deconder 1961 Subject was initially polygraphs
# ‘polygraph Exaniner stated that Subject, was econcealing in

nt ht nate dllbctin ete ot:

 

    
  

 

“of the technical. findtas
Subject act bo

Ae a consequasce

the polygrs
Pxeataer acer thet

polygraphed again until

 

     

 

 

 
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
. Records Collection Act of 1992
| eee : Cn. . (44 USC'2107 Note)

= _ \.* NW53295 6/15/17
“DISPATCH

104-10169-10013

     
    

 

Vee eweees wen ce cache

 

 
104-10169-10013

 

"auch thea as he had heen davriated in detail tngarding all activities 4
- . -ap@octated with the above tecnica. Mecotcce, prior ta Subject'e :
-:, Yecent polygraph test, he waa thoroughly debrtefad by [Frederick oG

"- . Clared that Subjece'’s verbal expression is peor and also that
|. 80 extremely difficult tine writing. Subject lecks the ability to

‘dn conceiving actual tics and space factore. ‘In eddition, Subject

‘known to ts, However, on the topic of arreats, Subject declared that #

 
  
    
    
     
     

Henderson), a wenber of the CI/Staff st the WAVE station. It 18 of
faterest €o note (Me, Henderson's) tmpresatons of Subject which ex-
plalned rather clearly the make up of the man aad y he had so
quch difficulcy during his first polygraph test. [hr Honder ac e~
a had |

  

  
  

concentrate for any length of time on one subject and also has trouble,

     
     

had a difficule time understanding the questions on the PRQ, furthers
-more Bubject did not understand-the pricciple of the polygreph dn- :
. Strupent during the first test.O (te, Hendereod stased that the Subject
had no dea that the instrument measured physiolegical changes to iad
questions which Subject associated with his background,  —s.

      
       
  
  
 

       

 

 

ov) During the debriefing, Subject denied that thera had been any ~
past attenpts to blacknatl him, chat he lied ebout hie personal histor
statensnts, thet he was formerly eynpathetic to Communiss, or thet he 4
ad secoolated with political organizations other than those already

  

 
 
   
  

   
  
 

  
 

-he was arrested twice under tha Batista Regime end detained once under:
he Caetro Regine,

 
   
 
  
  
  
 

went to Havana from the mountains of Escawbray with a message. Having
> gotten off at the Canibus Station, it turned out chat ell pereons ;
triving at the atation wre picked up, arrested and interrogeted. i
He stated that he wae ables to explain hia way cut of the arrest ané
wae Ldentifted and therefore was released.‘ Subject elated that be
‘was detetacd. by Castro's militia at the time he waa trying to eacape.
from Cube, however, fe turned out thet the ailitia was looking for.
hother Cubs and consequently, Subject was released.: During polye
grepti teeting, Subject was asked the following specific queattonet.

eaidee the Escasbray front, ave
political organization? Anew: Ha, -

  
   

    
   
     
  

 
 
  
     
 

 
     

 
 

104-10169-10013

 

2, Have you ever been 8 pember of the Coban Communist Party?
Answet: No.

: 3.. you have a secret means of en with any Come _-
- punlat tatelligence Sacvicad Anewer: ais,

be Age. you presently veretving any money fron. ny , Communist
Intelligence Organization? Answers Mo. ..

 §, Rave you been aveigned « becxet code nane: yy any Csstro.
FaRaTttgaacs Service? Answer: wo.

be wave you fatenttonally ‘falsified any of ‘the Perecnal Htatory
Stetensnte that you } have tives vet Anewar! mee

 
   
  
 

 

 

 

  
   
   
   
     
      
  
 

 
