 

104-102-1004 . e) RESTRICTED

SECRECY AGREEMENT

age

pose

    

~i. oT, » understand that by virtyu os i
the Central Intelligence ency, I may be the recipient of Intormet ing ea we
ligence which concerns the present and future security of the United States and
which belongs to the United States., This information and intelligence, together
with the methods of collecting and handling it, are classified according to
security standards set by the Central Intelligence Agency. I have read and under-
stand the provisions of the Act of Congress of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act),
as amended, concerning the disclosure of information relating to the National
Defense and I am familiar with the penalties provided for violation thereof,

2. I agree that I do not now, nor shall I ever possess any right, interest,
title or claim in or to any of the information or intelligence or the methods of
collecting or handling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by
virtue of my connection with the Central Intelligence Agency, but shall always
recognize the property right of the United States of America*in and to such
matters.

3. %I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal
either by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified information,
intelligence or knowledge, except in the performance of my official duties
and in accordance with the laws of the United States, unless specifically
authorized in writing in each case by the Director of Central Intelligence.

. 4. I understand that no change in my assignment or employment will
relieve me of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of this
oatki will remain binding upon me even after the termination of my services
with the United States.

5. I understand that my employment by the Central Intelligence Agency is
conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security
Regulations CIA", and the appendices thereto.

6. I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion. .

In witness whereof I have set my hand and seal this 7 day or uly 193A

aud wlereale v2...

Witnessed by me this_G aay ot (feb 19 8

 

 

re ae Ss

 

at

 

 

RETURN TO CIA -

; RESTRICTED " Background Use Only/
0er 1980 20°33 - Do Not Reproduce IA

 

'
i

 
