j4-00000
‘

   
   

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

  
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
    
   
 
  
 
  

woe

i
i . .
i: ‘
i

 

 

3. In conteetion with the Air Farce report the FBI
furnished the foiiowioy information tio the Department of Justice:

.
One Sergto Arenacha:Smith, identifted’ as the
former head of the FRD in New Orieans, during
an interview on & December iGL, identified a
Luis REBKL of New Orleans as the delegate

tu the CRC in New Orleans, Also on a itist of
members of the CRC in New Orleans, which was
made avaiiable tu the FBI, the address of 4651
Marigny Street was noted with a “Mr. Luis. Rabel
Nunes" listed as a “De legado".

4. Headquarters fites contain ho identifiabie information
on William 4. Punnington and Luis KABEL Nunez. Concerning Sergio
Arcacha Smith, our files contain no information other than he was)
once the hoad of tho FRD in New Orleans.

5. In mid-1961 Headquarters notified the Department of Justice
that we had and expected to-continue to-have a special interest. in
the activitics couducted by the FRD (and now the CRC) and its bona ~~
fide affiliation and requested that oo action be taken against the
CRC for acts that may be commiccdd in the performance of its func-
tions as a central! point for enlisting support fur anti-CASTRO acti-
vittas, Ii connection with this notification and the recruiting
activities cited in paragraph 2., tie FI has requested the opinion
of the Department of Justice as to whether such recruiting activi-
ties indicate a possible violation of theo neutrality statutes-- ;

warranting further investigation,

6. It is requested that the StatJon discreetiy determine
from Or, MIRO if Luis RABEL Nunez is an: authorized representative
of the CRC in the New Orleans area and his activities are known
and approved by the CRC. With this information and any comments
the Station may have on the reported activities, Headquarters can
make ap appropriate reply to the Department of Justice iaquiry.

 

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - COS/JHWAVE

 

 

eG
| -
sd
fee i cuss wicaTION Oo perry
: USE PREVIOUS EDITION
1 ree 8~E-C-R- Be T conmnuiD 2
| —_—— —
  

 
    

DISPATCH

  

§.E-C-8-#-T

_Cniet of Station, JHWAVE

   

 

    
 

 

ey Shotd taShal/Gvmogge
> Bepartuent of Justice Tnauiry Concetning ee
po-Reoruiting-Activirles———————————-_______-______

 

rr

  

 

   

    
 

     
     
     

1. Headquarters has received an inqugry from tho Internal
Security Divigdon, Department. of Justice, goncerning alleged re-
cruiting activities by cortaio individuale/ identified as repre~
sentatives of an anti-Castro movemont in ¥ew Orleans. Tho Depart~
mout of Justice received the information Aiucougin tho FBI) frum the
liéth Intelligence Corps Group, U.&. Air /Force, New Orieans,
Louisiana, f

i
oa 2. Information in the Air Yorce Iatelligence report dated
April 3, 1962, rafiects that Wiliiam A.; Pennington of New Orieans,
Louisiana, advised during interviews on 31 March 1962 and 2 April
1962 that he had been in contact with 4 Luis RAVEL (phonetic) at

   
   

 
 
 
 

     
     
      

 

  
      

1964 and discussod with them tin allitary experionce and capability
ic porfurm aircraft nemuavat and deaviltlou wotk. According to
Pennington, he was toid by theae repreaontatives of the Anti-Castro
movement that they could utiiizs hin milltarz skilis and that he
training area im Guatemaia and that

«ould work at aa wadisclosed trai
upon the successful liberation of Cuba he would be given a Cayptalacy

in the Cuban Army. Ponniagton advised that these individuals, wne
did not mention the group or organization they represented, snoved
him during the meoting an invoice from a government gurplus concern
located in Philadelphia, Penngyivania, which indicated the gale of
military small arma valued at $19,000, ue further stated that he
was told prior to his actually being employed by the group, “author-
ization would have to be obtained from Miami". During the meetiag,
according to Pennington, Havel received a telephone call from Hiaai,
Florida, from an individual whom Ravel identified as "Presidente

Cardonas" (phonetic).

       
      
   
        
      
   
   
   
   
      
 
   

   
    
  

(Continued) ——.
Me 4-3 /-
LATE EYFEQ 7 CATE Urea cre
7 dune 1962, 12 yn 1952
: GSFATCH STUCK AND NUMEES
UPG? 1074,

HR ALEAUARTERS FILE NUMBER

     

 
    
  

9 18-124-25/2

Pot ey
Internal, Distrib

wadag

     

 

   

       
  

    

  

C/TPW/CL’ 8 June 62
TP W(CT 8. :
r

TFW/Pa-Pro

 

 
   

 

 

  
 
  
 

ee,

aa PLA Le
ci Lay KO EARVEY

ay
DISPATCH

 
   
  

 

OPNICE Sean

 
  
   

aa

   

a
BY 53 use emevious roman erm acts rome o1oe mrcR Mr we es

 
