 

 

 

significantly, his course of studies was in food chemistry! ws

: the traces we passed to. you earlier today, showing ‘that Oswald had: contact . 7 ;

 

really rather than ostensibly innocent. :

by the way, met clendestinely with a Soviet "exchange student’ from a os
Pennsylvania, university during the school year 1962-63, which’ muggests that
the Soviet student, is also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps -.

  

3.0 You will note that Mr. Marphy' 8 coments come without. ‘penerit of He

 

with a 13th Dept. representative in. Mexico City. .

 

JA, Another recently-arrived cable, being sent to the. . Director tonight, os
suggests that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with his -
own vise to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and mey, ‘Sherefore, | have been oo

 

, H.. BAGLEY

 
104-10431-10078

 

 

 

 

Document wud? BB - 537

 

 

From: Chet, s/or

: af Subject: °cobie from ciety SR  Diviston, re Possible KGB role a eanedy

: for FOIA Review on , APR 1976

: 95>
(adhe
To: : “Assistant Deputy Director, Plans — ot _ Te mde

  

   

“the following is the text of a cable from . cnter, SR ‘Division, * sent

  
 

2 via clowea channel from Frankfurt at 23162 on 23 Rovenbers. for the attention

of Mr. Angleton:

- "LS I desire ‘that you. consider these reactions. to the Kennedy _
assassination:

Be Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radto statenents
: as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right-
wing elements." Only as the true identity of the believed |
_ assassin became known did Moscow begin to complain that
U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as & pawn. ,

ob. Should not the assignment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB
.residency in the United Nations in New York be considered
in a new light?

 

c. I discovered from Arthur Martin ((of| during our long
. end exceptionally valuable discussion, it one of Harold
Wilson's principal scientific advisors is Captain Ian Maxwell,
who has a long Soviet intelligence background. This may
shed new light on AELADIE's report £ -@., that Harold Wilson
may be a Soviet agent.

2. Putting it baldly, was Oswald, unwittingly or wittingly, part of
@ plot to murder President Kennedy in Dallas as an attempt to
further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government
less capable of dealing with Soviet initiatives over the next
year? If AELADLE's views on Wilson and the information noted in
paragraph le above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored),
this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the
next several. months, for which the Soviets have nade careful,
long-range preparations."

2. The above reference to 13th Dept. officers in New York refers to the
presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, in New York or
Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the 1st Chief
Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. This department is charged with
“liquid affairs," sebotage and assassination. One of the 13th

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
“Te AP

   
      

   
  

—— ICONOUGTED 0!

   

E/aMPDET CL pyostzee

 

az Ney 63
Qop- 3G ats
