 

‘odt0teo0a77)

> . a
wy fad

 

RETURN TO ClA
- Background Use Onh
Oo Not Reproduce

April 1962

MEMOFAKD JM POR HKECORD ld. -

 

    
  
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
 
 
   
  
        

SUBJECT: General Points Covered in De-Briefing Subject.

i
1. Subject was asked if he knew anycne ty the name of f
CARRILLO. Subject was noticably cautious, his reaction changed {
quite sharply and then after some ccnsijeration he said yes he
\mew a doctor by that name, CARRILLO, who was the judge in a : |
place called Guynia de Miranda, Subject stated this individual i |
was a judge for several years until he was taken prisoner and i
fis now on the Isle of Pines. (Doe-liriefer's Comment: This was i
in order to find out if he could come up wit name which }
followa now, Justo CAKRILIOg is ono ven fat rece |
ognize as having perhaps some significance dividual. coms
After some mulling around he said he had heard of his own, I :
aid not suggest the name of Justo, he sugrested it himself, -he
wulled it around and he said he had heard of this individual as ' i
being a member of an organization, he had never seen him, he |
@oes not know and he thinks that he is in the “nited States. j
The specific eignificance of this will be examined later. We
oem use this as a control question in his examination.) |
i
1

“"l @— Subject was asked if he kmew Aguedo LUGO y Rodriguez.
Subject claims no knowledge of this person at all. (De-Briefer's
Comment: This latter individual le now in one of our other safe

houses and claims to know this man very well and has seen him

“many, many times. It is not possible for this individual to know _
(for Subject to know) Aguedo by any war name, because the man did i i

‘mot use one until after he had gone into the Argentine Embassy.)
Bubject was also asked if he knew the name which was dreamed up
by myself. Subject did not tumble, but tried to reason out who

' 4¢ was. He apparently was not trying to deceive me on this in=
dividual. Subject stated he had seen Raul Castro and Fidel Castro
om one occasion in the Presedential Palace on the 13th of Maroh,

. 1960. Subject olaims never to have spoken to them or treated with

--. them directly. :

 
