74-0000

"je

Subject said that MEAlDITE, VWTDASEVIC end rora@7m
the lest named ecting as tho spokesnan for the three
during thotr lest meeting vith Subject), erreed
: with hin tat Pointed out thet ery undertaking af this
type ves beyor! their field of interest, aa they had

: ény other collaboration with then, they agreed to mike
; it possible for hin to nest with Yuposlay Asbessedor
: Teo MATES ena outline his ideas for a public reletions
campeim, Subject 18 convinced that he will be abla
convines

aradervear

  

i * “thi plan,

: 6, ake eee arate {¢ clear that he 41d not heve the mney with vateh |
i to undertake evan tha cart of business errangenont MUGIDIZES hed orich.

i

i
"
Z
cy
i
E
E
j
j
§

Aesoctation of Travel Orrantzations, he decided that, wnless he eonld
coavinoe the Yugoslava thet they should engeye in fablictsing Yugoslavia

 

8, '
swtenas vier ED CONTROL a

 
   
74-0000

 

   
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
    

i . . «

9. Subject was informed that inesmch es his plens call for hin to
publisize a foreign govermesnt in the United States, this Agency vould
neither give him financial assistance nor influsnoe in. any wey his parsenal
i Accision in the uatter, Subject stated thet he understood this Agency's
i . position, We raised the question of being briefed regarding vhat he should

look far, should he be invited te Yugoslavia by the Yugeslev Government in
i eomection with the proposed publicity campaign, He ves informed that his
: question ves not pertinent es there really vas no vay of loxning if such an
invitation would over be forthconing,

t
i
| 10, Subjeet's office ia 224 Yyntt Building, 777 lth Street, ULU.,
: Washington, telephone District 7-3400, This is a suite consiating of a
i good sise ante-reom and two anal) offices, Subject shares offices
' with James JNFARRES, Jack Northam ANDEPSC! end Proderiek G.{DLU@NTIAL,
: Aesording to Subject, FIRES ia a forner State Department employee,
i PARRES in not listed in the telephone beck, but one Mrs, OpeljFPaPRB is
i Listed st 3520 18th Street, S.2,, telephone JUimson 3.5806, ‘This is
i mentioned beamse Bubject shares, with his “hree associates, a secrotery
whose firat nome fs, Opal, ANDIPSO# ard BLUMOITHAL are the Veshingten
representatives ‘of: tagenino, but seem to be using the joint offices
occasionally, They have a separate teleyhone line, Distriet Fuh325,

; EUUMETHAL is s former Drew PEARSON lepmen, while ANDEPSG], ss mantionsd
: above, still vorks for FEARSCH, [% appoars that Subject, FARRES, ond
io. the ceerctary may be the only ones who we the office daily end that
i ANDERS CS and BLUMENTHAL generally use FARRIS? room when they are on the
i Premises.
12, Bo future contest with Subject is contemplated,
; C137,

Ruslosures Agreement between Putatk and Willian GOIDHERG

fo.
yo 28 October 1955 *

yg ee “reg . le

Distribution: . t
- . Qriginal & 1 — FBI (w/l encl,)
oo , Vi = FI/NT (u/1 onci.)

1 - OI Staff

1 = Pans
1 ~ SE/RI (ur/1 enci,)
a/FIPR

   

1-S§
' 2 SEY

6

 

CONTROL

 

ee

 
74-0000

 

 

 

OD wetitite L ee.

~2e

en Canadien business handled by the Bev York City offies af Prtaik
during the period of ane year, in exehenre for vhich GOLDEERG is to
rent and fully equip a travel office in a convertent location fn
Bew York City, COLDESRG is to pay the rent for one yeer, surply
the nessasery furniture ant a telerhons, end, in sddition, pay a
nonthly selery of $400 to a ropresentative of Putalk, sent by them
to How York for the purpase of operating said‘travel office, This
egroenent, valid for one yeer, doses not give CODERS eny voice in
the monarenent of the trevel erenoy, An intorentine espoct of this
®contreat" fs thet it ts yarpartedly signed by the direotar of Putaik,
The 9 boave a striking resetblence to the

28 Gigneture, though:
signature of POmAID DEC ea it appears on his application for en entry

Vise to the United States, ag sulmitted to the United States Consulate
in Bolgrede in the swrer of 1955, oven ta the oyes of one who fa not

stated thet be is the Chief of the Foreign Division of Putnik, emi
never implied that he ie the Director of Putaik,

inted out to Subject that he waa not perttoularly
to eny trevel arranpersmt vith Putaik, bat,

errangemnt ves ecospte
HIRAIDTHEG hed arrived in the United States prior to the tine that
GODEERD first centected Subfect end vas reportedly amcious to
the travel egency as soon se practicable, )

6, At this point Subject said he realized thet Putnik is an
agency of the Tuposlev Coverment oni thst any Anericen asses
Glated vith it in the thited States wuld heve to register with the
Departaent of Justice es « representative of a foreign goverment,

 

 

 

 

 
4 . ; . ;

 

 
 

aad

w.

tk

\

\

Vay

"hs .
NN,
SR

  
   

   

fOs Direoter
Foderal Bureau of Inveestipation Mae welis
attentions © $, J, Papich TUASHLMED

FROMs Deputy Direstor, Plana MAR 15 1961 |

SUBJECT: Y, Irving DAYISGE

 

ae

  

re ere

_ DOCUMENT HICROFLY SERVICE ;

1, Reference 49 made to previous verbal dlsanslond cénserning
Subject, hin arrroech to this Agency, end the five meetings vith hiz,
held on 30 Soptexhor ani 3, 5, 10, end 13 October 1955,

'2, Tho: infGriation contained herein represents 6 dwamep oe Ue Te
statemnts mde by Subject in the course of the five meetings listed :
above, a5 wall as the observations of the Agency's representative,

ys 3. late tn daly 1955, vttites Comers, uho ia am officer of the
1 “City Coater Aviation Supply Company, 508 Arch Strest, Philedelntta,
‘.  Fennsylventia, office telephone WAlnut 204216, home telephone Tiinkty
Teds FIS, called on Subject, At that tine Subject was in the rerket
for aviation parte for the World War II P51 type planes, some of which
ere tsed by the Micareguan Air Force, COLDBGTC knew of a forthcowing
suction of P-51 tarta thet wes to be held {n Middletow, Pennsylvenia,
While be was in Subjeat's office, GOTBERO moticed a copy of the brockure
that Subject had prepnred te publicize the Rational Travel Shov, whieh
Jed to kis esking Subject about his part in the shov, In the course of
: their conversation it developed that GOLDBERG has sold aviation supplies
; te Yugoslavia for sovoral yoers anil thet e= a result of these activities
he received en invitation to visit Yugoslevie as a pusst of the Yugoslav
Goverment, At the time GONG visited Subject he had allegedly fut
returned from his visit to Yugoslavia, ‘Vhile in ¥ levis CODEERG sav

» nov Chief of the Foreign Diviaion of Putatk, (8
Dregosleva Jovenovica 1, elgrade, Yugoslavia, a Yugoslev travel ond
tourist sgeney, MIIAID IMEC inforasd CODEERG that be ves ebout to return
to the United States for the pirpose of opening a Putaik travel agency

: in New York City, MIIAIDPEC nade it clear to GCITRERG that be we

i operating on a small buiget ami offered COIDBERG a pert interest in the

i venture, CCIDERG indicated that he end MINAIDINEC telked about this

r
'

 

eaters on ee De

ee,

fi
5
8

  
4-90009

t
i
}
i

 

 

. foot
the first tino in Kew York City on 4 October, the socond end third’

biel wt

Fie eel

bulb i *

a3»

Tnssench as Yucoslavie is a Coremist camtry, Subject feared that
being associated tn a business venture with Yuposlavia ni pht not
be in his host intoreata, He therefore esked the edvice of Jeck
Rorthaut4 Mins GH, whe shares his suite of offices in veahineten,
end vbo, Subjoct seys, is a Vastinetan repretentative of 3:
magasino emi a lop-mn for Drew IEJISON, ADITSC! wrrad Subject :
to ask this Agency for guidance, To this ond A HPSGI arranged hi
for Subfect to contest a nerber of this Agoney end present his .

 

rretlen, 4s a result of this meting, Subject ws soon ernin by ot
esother representative of this Agency to whom Subject seid he vould 3 Ii
exlore the Prtnik offer in rreater detat? befare committing himeslr
ord 2% the sess tine keop this Aceney informed of the oveloments, i

 

os

UE wane Nae

“Fo “Subject contasted MHALDIEC on three different cocas icc:

 

Accorting to Subject, the gist of thees metings end the various
telephcne conversations is as follows:

®, Ih ettenpting to escertain just vhat MINAID IED
hed in mind in the way of a trevel arenoy ant hov Subject
could benefit from his association with said agency,
Subject learnsd that MINMAIDDIEC evidently has a tine
lait in vhich te set up the trevol sgency and show a
degres of success in its operation in order to receive
em incresse in his operating baicet in 1956, It vould
appear thet MEU DS fe operating on e very small
buiget and is eager to find sem finencial backing at
Jesst mtil be can eke a succese of his venture, Woen
Subject questioned the nesd for a travel agency operated

 

|
!
;
i

Subject stated that MIHAIDINEC told him that Putnik is a Private company
and that MATIUSEVID added that i¢ wes simtler to the Ttalien C.1.T, travel
agency, Subject added thet be personally beliews 1% to be a goverment
concern, but that he did not pursus the subsest with MIWAIDINES and

MAT EJASEVIC,

, :
@ eer | ks
ECR CeNTIEUED CONTROL. Los

berms

see

 
74-0000
1 | a
. « .

vhereas the official sucsalev Covermont Tourist WTice
: 4s in fact on information office and not engaged in the
i trevel ustness, Therefore, both these offices are

i interested in establishing the Artaik travel agency as
goon ss possible, end they both hsve been discussing
this problom with Subject maxi GOIDE3G,

Ee

b, Subisct et first thoveht that the whole deal
: ves semething plemed by KDWID DD for the purpose
| of obtaining money for his om personal uso without
{ the knovledpe of hie hom office, After speaking to !
{ poth FIUID ISS emi MATINGEYI, Subject conclnied
! thet no dishonesty was intemled ond thet the tvo son
}- . wep Ginsere, if rather nafve, roganding the travel, edgar
| business, After going into the various ranifications

of the proposed joint underteking, Subject concluied

that he did not desire to get involved in supporting
the now agency os proposed by MIHAIDINEC, tat he did

think thet, Yuroclavia should Leunch a public reletions

eamnaion in the Taited States, tiilt around the opening

of a travel agency, Subject therefore docided to

recomend te the Tugoslavs that ho, or sone other
| publie relations axpert, be hired to publicize

Yugeslavia's tourist attractions to the Anoricans,
| : This, be felt, could beat be done by opening
| travel

 

agency on New York's Fifth Avenue vith a

par eg thee, Sank Me rol rt Naplerary Ras -ard
With the Yugoslav colomies in both countries, Subject
eald that Yugoslavia vould soon resp a tenfold benefit
fron

   

&

L. . KOFGEN CNT: ED CONTROL

 

apr renee OR

 

Ee,

 
