104-10163-10001

"we

_- =

of course, caused quite a scandal and the word was ell over tovn,
S. AZCUE and/t-9|are intinsts friends ant(L-J, if he is in Mexico

{ when AZCUS arrived plans cn ‘msking contact with him, Prior to his departure for a
| Mexico, AZCUE told L-9) to getin touch with hia friend "Ful" in ‘Mexico and tell ’
him bie flana, #.¢6, arrive in Mexico around the end of. the year, (5 Jessscts

AZCUE and considers him a first class arquitect. (£5) verteves AZCUE is receiving
less than 600 pesos. monthly, AZCUE is sharply critical of the regime, stating

om one occasion: “Esta es una m...0. ¥ 86 va para abago", i pis ; ee

tH

 

 

MwesceiianmeRcR eR he? oe HEREIN | pe =

 
104-10163-10001

by
4
\
1
i

gf es wn ts wt nt AZCUE's former wife tas Last known to be in
/
yy

44
\

 

a 1
, Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
(44:USC 2107 Note)
NW 53295 6/15/17
_ Reports ay 7"§ Kovestar 1966
.< “— 4
Memorandum for Reports . ied t
nen
uLjects Grseenaa toate & AZCUB ams topes

oi .
1. On 10 Novenber raster 13h, Gari) reported that Eusebio AZCUE
Lopes, an officizl of the CNC, is fed up with the regime and wanta to leave Cubs
According to(t9, AZCUE was recently called ey fey Soke CIENFUEGOS and alacat ero
fiom his job. Celia SANCHEZ was also critical of AZCUE, AZCUE who bas been given

the responsibility of the Pavillion at the EXPO 67 in Montreal had apparently failed
miserably in fulfilling his job. CIENFUEOOS, who considered the EXPO $7 affair a

very very txportant event told AZCUE he had "abandoned" the project and done nothings
AZCUE vas at the point of being fired when he produced a letter he had written to

an gxvt organization which asked for essintance and it had not been forthconing.

Ghis letter apparently "saved" AZCUE free being summarily fired frem his post tut i
4¢ did not stop CIENFURGOS from relieving AZCUE of his responsibilities re EXPO 67.
‘Tats run-in with CIENFUEIOS has made /7CUE a very bitter man ("terriblenente dis-
gustado") and he winte to get out of Cuba as soon as possible, His present plans
are to leave Cuba for Mexico around the end of the yoar, AZCUE plans to use a bad
vertebrae as "cover" to get to Mexico.

, 2, AZCUE has divorced his wife and ie now married te = 25 year

Spain wita a daughter. -AZCUB's son is in Mexico atadying arthitesture. Hs arrayed

4n Mexico about S weeks ago. AZCUE is not at all repentent re his former wife but

continues to criticize her for having been too much of an “old lady" . (couse he
believes that AZCUE ie drinking less thor he did in Mexico.

mee escent Se ne NRRL OO RES

w

ed cn the luxurious surroundings and AZUL said ha prefersed * tia little comer Stfiss

aN in Mexico® ( "Yo lo ombiaria por mi rinconeite de Maxico%}

uF find) eaid that severe] months ago, AZCUE got drunk at an Enbasay
funotion st the East German Embassy and he called. the Germans there Afasoiatas".s men -

ML . eee a bocne es one nw

ee
1 ning tA a nec el sheared mrnry ms mer: cemceemgemeee nes

 

/ 3, AZCUE hes a sumptuous office at the cnc. / [ ta9 recantly _—s a

es

Bvennewm
