SER

eZe

Ali the information J have been able lo gather euggeste that the combl~
wation of Munos tartu/Tigueres, a6 far ae Washington ie concerned,
fe unbdeatable and thet Artime has Ittle choice bus to aliya himself with
their way of Jooking at thinge--or at lenet to pay lip service to it.

. 3. Another angle I would like to explore te President Betancourt.
The more I read of his accomplishments ae president, tae more im-
pressediam. ¥:hat would you think of having Artime, armed with a
letter of introduction from Fipveres, pay Betancourt a call before he
relinguishee the presidency. Artime's approach would sot be that ef a
supplicant of solicitor of support, but that of a young mas making a
pilgrimage, sitting at the feet of a revolutionary who has been succesatal,
absorbing knowledge of how it wae dons, Me could sek Betancourt, after
be ie owt from under the daily grind of government, to addrees himeelf
to the problema of post-Castro Cube. He could favite him to chair a
seminar attended by the MRR leadership. The objective weuld, of course,
be to involve Betancourt in the affairs of the AiLRH, without wwtting his
Bamé on the masthead and without asking him to contribute anything but
reflections of hie lustre ae 4 Latin American leader who bequeathed his
Country @ constitutionnl amd democratic regime. Undoubtedly Artime
will have to cast off ideolo,ical ballast in order to accommodate his
reluctant eponsore ((izueres, Betancourt}, but Havens “vant bien une
mesee.'' As @ minimum objective, Artime would in any case have to
etrive to neutralise the letent animosities of the moderate left, denying
Manolo Kay an unchallenged ascendancy in mosopeliaing ite support,
which he can probably cet for the asking.

4, A welcome by-product of the recuscibation of JA: HAART,
is “Combate, " an infivential periodical with strong readership appeal
in Latta America among elemsnte of the moderate left, edited by
Monje.’ A German nations! named br, Erich Herseg whe is a member
of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) has been lecturing
ia San Jose on an “Ideological Inquiry ato Comniuniem," Ale program,

Andirectly sponsored by the Federal Republic, GAIT ba absorbed by .

{IMHART. Ie wields considerable influence in molding the thinking of
Central America‘s left of center leadership. The Firet Secretary of
the Israeli Embasey in Guatemala bas alse been mentioned as inflvential
among the incellectual elite. A Fuerto Ricas named santiago Polante

 
 

104-10179-10232

 

  

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Special Affaira Sta
SUBJECT t AMWOKLD-«-Project JMHART

3. Chief, WH/? has tentatively offered the services of CIA

Contract personnel assigned.to this project--principally thoes of the

 

 

to serve

 

 

 

 

@6 @ Channe] to ex-President Figueres and Foreign Minister Cduber
in promoting the acceptability of AMWORLD and AMBIDOY-1 by the
sooderste left. Under the terma of the JMHART Froject, CIA, through
will be able to influence the

 

 

  
 

. It ia proposed that
would tell | Figueres and Cuuber that if fa ded to also enroll
Cubane in thedechool end that in the opinion of ey should be
drawn from exile organizations known to be dedicated to democratic
principlea, such as Artime's MRR, Maselo Kay'e JURE, the MAP

and MDC, & ie unlikely that Figuores and Cduber would demur. In
sny case, their demurrels could be overruled. The prominent mention
of the MRE a6 @ cradle of democratic ideas end the actus) inclusion of
students selected by Artime would postulate acceptance of the MXR and
of Artime a@ exponents of a political philosophy acceptable to the mode-
rate left. Any excoriation of Artime for having allied himself with the
Semosas would be blunted if the MRR forms a part of thecstudent body

 

 

 

 

and coscetvably the feculty) of the| _ __

 

 

 

2. Pintend to suggest to Artime that he pay Ma respects to
Figueres in Cambridge, of course without alluding to the(school ‘project.
The purpose of the call would, quite frankly, be to butter up Figueree.

 
 

SECRET

(Preeident of the Ascembly) ie Munes Marta'e maa in sponsoring
JMHART, and is quotes a» having referred te Figueree se the guiding

light, overshadowing al] others.

gen fe
BOY?
Henry D, Hecheher
SA3/SO
ec: WH/T
SAS/SO/SB
SAS/SO/AR
DC/SA3/ MOB

 

SECR
