 

104-10179-10224

 

jhe am
seme
‘ i)

°
»
J

a ox
* Cony of Secret and Percent unnonbered te elogréd fron
° dated June 4,

 

  

"EMS Decoy", United States Bahamas euerdship,
on afternoon of June 1 in consecuence of suspicious
behaviour by small vessel leaving Anguilla Cay, landed
party and then with assistance of United States Coastguard
aircreft arcrehended vescel. Landing parties found three
Cubans on Anguilla Cay, one of whom had automatic rifle
and revolver and ammunition and another of whom had:F.N..
rifle. A cuantity of grenades and five rifled-barrel.< ..
weapons and ammunition were found on or near beach. *
Explosives snd detonators were recovered from weighted
bag obviously dropped from vessel. "HMS Decoy" brought
vessel and seven men and one woman to Nassau on June 3. °°

2e "Attorney-General is satisfied that there is prima facie
case against: four men and one woman found in small boat and .
‘against three Cubans subsequently brought from Anguilla Cay.
Police investigation is preceeding but a11 eight will be

brought before magistrate in Nassau on June 4.

3. -I understand, from Comnissioner of Police that intense
international interest has been manifested about identity ~ ; oe
of one of the Cubans. Press and television representatives -
who have arrived here are asking whether police have Manuelo..-....°
Ray in custody. Police have reason to suppose that one .
Cuban who gave his nume as Martinez is in truth Manuelo Ray.
Ray's wife has telephoned Nassau today asking te Spe ti
him. . . wee

4. Whether or not Martinez is in fact Ray, fay. o! official ©
cadviser3} and I are satisfied that law must be allowed to take
its course. Even if the mo3t favourable possible construction

 

  
  

  

_ were to be. put on facts known to Royal Navy and -United: States

-Coastguard, and the Cuban's wessel was at Anguilla Cay solely —
because of engine trouble, there is no acceptable. explanation —
of an unauthorised presence ashore. of Cubans Possessing arms

and ammunition.

56 Commissioner of police thinks that: df-overseas
Press representatives claim to recognise one. ‘of the Cubans
as Ray when they are broight before the court, there may ~
be anti-British demonstration in Miami, It would bé well
to warn British Consul in Miami urgently but I have no
secure means of doing so speedily.

6. Police inform me that auong persons apprehended
by "HMS Decoy" in small boat were a reporter and a
photographer from “Life” magazine.

 

  

 

 
