 

hem

REANT AND Wo? A BAD JOKE!

 

rr
[ The President of the United States of America, John F Kennedy was

7 assassinated by “Lee H Oswald by direct order of the government of

the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
put there was helpers and reserv. "Now all is over" was password

to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist but he
must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China.

Later he was spy for us. When Lee H Oswald had returned fo USA we

7 -contactea nim anew una Lresheaed up nis mind “you have been a spy

for us" and told him what could happen to him if FBI got informed.

Now we had him. He got his last information in Mexico. /It was not

good to assassinate Kennedy in wexico/ "Fair Play for Cuba" was

started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro Yor the as—

ssassineted. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba

3. when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the assassin-

assassinate

‘ation. When Cuba was attacked by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend

. himself. Iv that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-

ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for A-
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should

win this wax and whole the world should be Commnistic. Then we should

   
   

wrustjey and other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader
of the NEW 98D. When this letter/will reach you they have maked -

away with me and all that knowed the planes. This letter: is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is a:.chinese spy-shool.
iy name is Ryo Liang Yuen, Officer in the department, for State-secret.

anna emote anenernyngrnscertt PORCH gesNE tetra tte tne tc et ALLL SLAEIY ORAONEB, to sm tonne”

If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to USA.

 
104-10534-10046

 

 

 

we SEGRE a

13 DEC 1963 -

Approved for Release

; by the Central Intelligence Agenc'
MEMORANDUM FOR: "SD/DB/5 Date: jo /s3 y

ATTENTION: Mr. Tom Campbell.

SUBJECT: Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope

1. Attached is a letter mailed to the American Embassy in
Stockholm purportedly from an officer in the Chinese Communist
Embassy in Stockholm. Also included is the envelope and a plain
foided sheet of paper which presumably was used to enfold the
letter within the envelope. Please perform a technical analysis
of these attachments to determine whatever can be determined
concerning the origin of the paper, envelope, typewriter, and
ink used. If you have any capability for comparing this letter
with other correspondence originating with the Chinese Communist
Entassy in Stockholm, we would like your opinion on whether or
not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type
normally used by that Embassy.

2. Because of the sensational nature of the contents of
the letter and the necessity for our checking out such allega-
tions as quickly and thoroughly as possible, it is requested
that this technical analysis be undertaken on a priority basis
and that the undersigned by notified by phone as soon as any
conclusions are reached. ~

3. Please acknowledge the receipt of the attached letter
and ensure that its whereabouts, when in your custody, is a
matter of record. We prefer that the letter and envelope be
kept as intact as possible while undergoing technical analysis.

 

 

 

GROG? 1
SE declassification
13-00000

     

€.

 

American Embassy
_,, Strandvagen 101.

| STOCKHOLM No

* MAIL ROOM,
__.. STOCKHOLM

 
