74-0000

ChABAC ATION,

SECRET

    

PACs BBO AND EER

UPGA~$212

about the dismissal of anvone who had proved to be ineffective,
AMDENIM-1 is a rood friend of AM8UNeL as a result of his father's
long standing relationship with him, but at this point has very

, Little respect fer him as a result of, as he says, AMBUD-1'g

\ failure to actually make his orranization into an effective body
and to enparpe in activities which actually detract fron the success
of the current PBRUMEN recime. It remains that he is willine
tain AUS yy Ovvanizetion and aicempt ty create Uniky among. the.

fititary sections of the Reaber grouss at such time as KUBARK gives,

him the go ahead, Speen eee

  

Following his belief that the most insortant job at hand
elopment and maintenance of maritime reception points
north coast of PBRUMEN, AMDENIM-1 has devoted considerable
ying assets among his exiled fisherman friends to make
contact with their former fisherman associates still” based in
PBRUMEN., The foundation for this activity is quite. tenuous asa
‘result of a variety of factors which make it difficult. to arrance
Sea rendezvouses in the absence of radio contact, - Severa! i
have been made to the Anguila Key area for this purpose, the last .
OF which’was su ported..by KUBARK and was called Operation Antonico
i, This attempt was unsuccessful due to*the failure of the inside
contact te appear. It developed that the woman and child who were
to be exfiltrated on this operation appeared in the JMWAVE area
two daye later, having obtained permission to leave PBRUMEN by air,
They carried the message that Someone had-stolen the‘iport chief's
' personal boat as a result of which the inside contact was unable

    
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

next rendezvous was Scheduled for 12 August, howev.
weather forestalled any chance of making this rendézvo “The
effort to establish contact continues on the basis."that,-once a
gone 5

 

 

 

“tat 300 ree. oe 2 aoe
mo system can be set up, if will be comparatively easy fo és=
ablish futther rendezvoises ana thus develop ratline
north coast, : na

 

  

into the

    

   
 

 
 

Based upon
effort is’ being made more selective int

He has a number of people on tap who aré qualified as
for small guerrilla teams, but who are not. capable o
themselves Clandestinely until the time for guerrilla

6. FUNDS EXPENDED:
: o4+

 
    
 
 
  

 

    
 

a. $200. was piven to as
maintenance until hi mes throughs It.

is -intended that will be an investigator of ..
operational leads“and an™assistant to AMDENIN~T in a
the handling of his fishermen and operational candidates.

  
   

 

  
 

    
    
   
    
  

b. $300. was given to SMDENIM-1 for passage to the
widow of AMGLAD-1, He is the channel for this payment
until such time as HOs arrives at a settlement figure
and this obligation can be disposed of.

   
        
   
 
    
 

     
  

Fromm
rg 53a ‘USE PATOUD Eornons

fee) CONTINUED

 

 

   
  
  
 

 
  
    

 
 
  
 
 
  

 

  
       
        
       
     
    
 
   
 

 

  

  
 
    
    
      
 

 

 
  
     
    
       
 

AO440472-10147), Lo. , .

 

aS

“DISPATCH

  

Pvrtervire

SECRET

      
 
  

   
   

SAR GCYROSE /Oeerational
Q AMDENIM=L roe

       

REF: UFGA=4425 dated 19 June 1962

   

_/X._ SUMMARY: In the period since ref prorress report
AMDENIN-1 has been primarily enraged in keeping his fences mended
with the various exile croups in “the area in anticipation of. mov-.
ing inta.a.pesition in the AMBUD-l-orrantzation in which he will
wba_ressonsible for coordinating ‘the sele&tion of paramilitary § ~
dates. from these groups. In additidn to this he has prepared

a numter of reports providing backeround information,-and on cur-

_ rent activities in the local PR®UMEN community and mounting .
' Operation Antonico I, dn effort to establish contact with PBRUMEN

fishermen thru his own fisherman contacts. Details follow:

      
 
       
 

   
   
   
    
  
   
    

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

: 2. In response to a Station request subject provided an
estimate of the current situation in PBRUNEN. This report
stressed the points that the farmers and the fishermen. in PBRUMEN
are the most willing and capable of providing support to. resis~
tance activities as a result of their having suffered the-most at
the hands of the current administration after being largely _
responsible for its obtaining power. He also provided a general
strategic blan of Oriente Province in which he defined the main
areas in which guerrilla elements can survive and how they can be

_ reached fron coastal resupply points. His ability to do ‘this is
based upon his being a native of the area and one who has been
primarily interested in its geography due to his former large.

“agriculture holdings there. _ ane

3._ He has had one meeting with AMBUD-1 for the purpose of
maintaining contact. His main question to AMBUD-l'was with regard
to the latter's ability to actually control the people on his staff.)
He was disappointed by the reply which though positive could not be’
supported with an example of where AMBUD-~1 had actually brought — -

 

 

 

    
      
  
  
     
    
 

    
   
  
  
 

Distribution: t
3. =. Addressee

  

 
74-0000

   

 
 
 

CLAS BIrICaTeON

SECRET

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

   

¢. $325, was siven to AMPENIM~1 in support of Operation
Antonico I, which operation is described under para-
graph 4, .

7. INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION: ANMDENIM*=2 has provided a number
moranda on developments within the various exile groups in the
hich qualify as intellizense inforaation but
all of which Gontripute the Station's bétter understandine of
local politics, Specifically, he haS provided info on the

of me
JMNAVE area, none of whic

  

 

the
“political beliefs and backrround of most of the PBRUMEN exiled labor

leaders and the activities of the Bequer proun. He has also been
helpful in clarifving the picture as to the novements within the
UR at this time while the Station is trying to determine how best
to orpanize this group in order to be able to take over its more
‘worthwhile features without becoming unduly comnitted to giving

it special -prominence in the exile community. He is being counted.
on to help bring the UR into the AMBUD-] organization as a means
of creating the appearance of greater unity among the exile

community. .

8, COMMENTS AND FLANS: While no spectacular achievements are

resulting from AMDENIM-~l's efforts at this point he is steadil
becoming more and more susceptible to KUBARK control and more

“pro stena 3 efforts. A recent” example 13 the critique he
gave his fishermen for not realizing more information out of the
refugees they met at Anguila Key while waiting for their inside
contact, They had failed to adequately debrief two young men, who
had succeeded in surviving in PBRUMEN for over two. months on their
own, on the basis that they were too young to be knowledgeable. :
As it turned out the two refugees had used the ‘cover OF’
salesmen and had been able to travel from Havana to. $a ti
Cuba without being stopped once. On learning of this’: A
was reminded of a good cover he has heard about, namely fighting
cock fanciers, which activity seems to be on the incredse asa
result of the greater amount of spare time available
The sport is actually becoming a year around proposi
than being restricted to the winter months as in the
t o_have: AMDENIM-1 continue_his present_pursu

basis that_he is free to move as the Station desires and ‘cz
‘Br overail constructive effect on the AMBUD-T oreanization a
L_constrt ne_ AR BY ears

  
 
 
 
  
  

tine “dssived. He will Continue his efforts with. the Fishermen and .
will provide candidates for infiltration as they become “available

and can be. accepted by the Station. Operation Antonico III-is

 

‘scheduled for 27 August using a Magnolia (boat) to éstablish- es

contact with fishermen living on a key in the Caibarie
There ‘is a possibility that he will journey to Jamaica eae
contact with an old associate who is: OW..a° prominent. a Of the
PBRUMEN governmént asa means of ‘elic

  

     

regime policy and plans.

   

“OF DISPATCH

USE PREVIOUS EDITION. ©

  
    
  
 

ting information: on‘éurrent — ~

 
 

   
 
     
 
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
