 

404-10182-10127}

 

. SGT Z
oe oar RETURN TO CLA
Background Use Only
Do Not Repredues
3 August 1959 -
MEMORANDEV. FOX THE RECORD . °

SUbJECT: Mitchell L. werdell (291+259910)

     

~2—4t 17L5 2h culy 195 distance call cate in for “|
from Subject. Mr. “as on leave and tne -riter toot the
€ Subject identi. tf by first nane only. .
. : . FeAkZ4 SG

2. Subject said he had obtained information in Miant‘ fron PROMeESTS
crowd that BATISTA would enter Mian fron the Doninican Republic clan-
destinely that night or the folloving morning, andl ¥culd be stopping at
the Biltmore Hotel. He said that he wanted this inforaation given to
General Cabell and wanted te know whethe: or not the Agency want-d him
to attempt to obtain further information on the subject,which he said
ite believed he covld do. I told him that he would be called later and he
left the fcltowing maimbers in Miani where he could be reached: —
Filanklin 9=1675, which he said was the office from which he was calling;
and Highland 8—84h3 and Highland 1-5273, apperently hones which he
expected to visit that evening.

3. I gave this information to Mr. Gomez, «<C/.H, who was still in
his office,and he instructed me to coll Subject and tell hin ve were
interested in any further information he could obtain concerning
BATISTAte entry into the United States; and to ask Subject to report :
any cach inforaation to Mr. dustin Cleichauf, OG Centacts Representative
in Miani, until ¥r, returned to washineton.

3

bh. Ab chost 2230 r Peaches Szoject and told his his information
had been passed up the line; that we were interested in any additional
information be could obtain and asked hin to get in.touch with Mr,
Gleichauf, During this conversation he said that a man naned Ceorge
Cox was in Miani at that tine and in talking to hin Cox had implied
to Subject that he was employed by CIA. lie asked for any information
x2 mickt have on Cox, deseridin as in his late fifties (20's);
heavy drinker; loud talker; raan <round with Ada Falk, BATISTA's former
mistress3 and seid he lived in A ndris, Virginia, and was employed
by Fertantd Constrrction Conpany Hew York, I told hin I had never 1
heard of Mr. Cox but we would 2 m know later. Subject said that he | j
had seen Cox first in the Doni: eoublic where he (Cox) xzs trying ty 7
arrenge BATISTAts illegal eatry into the United Scates. BY . ¢

Stave. ap

  
  
   
  

 

 

 

Sertha ne Thar

‘aAVLII/40

vf wee
