 

zyemint Yi

rasher of tho Economic Dev Lopnent f Parielen of 1

of 1959 because of the good results nae schieved thora and the peed Por ham te

supervise a statistical investigation on the problend ef *;opulation, its strue~"

ture ty pation and profession, and lend and agriculture! statistics, .

Carlos MHAMS: MATUS Joined the Economic Devolosnent Pivision_¢

dk --giltant_ For a ‘tine he a8.i

oe Gniaf of the division, s

gh BE uspild the end of 1 . .
laques Chonchol is. oY €hilean expert. sn-sictentiows 5 and a a permenant .
wesc at o7d6 of the Corporactcn .4¢,Ponunto (Couro) atic sas cs OLA trainee in ise.
. De Kock is B® Belgian and iz chief of ‘the fransportetion Bection
pobre zx He Left for Cuba in July 1959 +e prepare & Sonprahansive Tepat og
ot tran Ton, similar to tie onos he did recently for Argentina and Colombia,
— Sy 9 is to gd to Mexico and work on Mexican problems of transporte »
nut Carlos QUINTAX. 3 beon director of the Industrial Develo it
Me Divislon of BIA since Septeaber en He rocaitiy handed in hie resignation
se) fron TA erjto join the Kegkonal Financicra de his native country.

and aspect on the textile industry and its produstivity-~a problem in which .
is an export, es ia from 3 November | jovoriber t0 20 Reconber. ; -
at which time he ie to start an extensive industrial study of the kind he - ;

sfrejared in 2957-1959 for Peru, ‘In addition to weiting the complete gut

   
    
 

 

      
 

 

   

   

VOR RA a one ote

a ae: L FS 22 Be wo‘ter
lefendait source reported that Jacgies Garnkol Cuhit halder Bx
" Identity Gard No, 1775545, ‘vas-born in Sartiage on-26 Kateh’ 1928, ‘He w
. described ag an agricultural engineer, fu ed. II 1a,, 474

  
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

       
   
   
 

| DATE OF 1959
INFO,

®
PLACE & D Kew aber 2
DATE ACQ . 9

Person ‘With connections in UCLA (B); from Buropean in. eloue: |
SOURCE: affairs (7). Appraisal of Content: 3,

1, One of the nost’ inportant roasons for the frequent visite
Vu Seonule Mission fpr Latin America (MIA) to Cuba and the three vi

Regrzo ASoti , CRO PEE AC Cuban Minister of Econ to Chile
fe ou Seti has had many years of uss enocialion with ECLA poople | od
oraers Loon mus Pevelopmont Divies
aves 3S Ces AONE ote AS AB.

Caines ]
direetion of Hey ALVAREZ,
ign 1357 under the direction of Jos
tram, Bot. ;
gein Fidel CASTRO'S underground neveront; “However, aftor ‘Bome
returned to Santiago were he found that, jis post in BOLA hag
ancthar ecmomist. After many’ wooks®
found a place for him as one of the Permanent collaborators of th

thre fot Towing! eounceLstss i)
i, and Carloy MATUS,
Lal ‘a toca Te Yat of BE Th

see ae MOREA rH = me Son em mena!

 
wiiel of did dicdeion,
there i the
Sggues Obonohol

i =

SLA sinoo Septenber }
from H ordur[ts join the Waotonal Finanoiera de Mexico, his natives

tiles on “homo leave in Mexico he mde a sige trip to Cuba from & June to 3: ily
59. While there he served as an adviser on an judustrial development study ,2.

on the textile industry and ite produotivity--a problea in which

it nisalon to Cubs ie-fron 3. fetesber_to.20.Decen

epared in 1957#1959 for Peru, |

9 study, QUINTAHA has to pt !

nve ite contimuation t Xe

to teach the Cubans h

éevelop Cubats taxtil a's t i one
a fines © seme h eee Ota

 
