 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - — : : {A) aa Tk ORELLT aay >

 

a rr

* FBI, State, White

5 December 1963 DIR 87189 Subject: None given.
. House

1
“1, We have learned that on 3 December 1963, a known Soviet, intelligence ; :
officer in New Delhi, India, working through Indian communists, attempted | . .

to have a number of telegrams sent to President JOHNSON, Chief Justéce
WARREN, and Attorney General KENNEDY from Indian youth, lega}, and. other
groups, demanding a full probe into the assassination of President John F. . ;
Kennedy. Apparently the Soviet officer undertook to pay for all the tele-

erams; he said the whole scheme was based on ‘orders from Moscow! - \

"2, Note: to| check on this story and to detect similar activity from
other areas, this Agency would appreciate receiving data on,lany such tele-
grams which have been received." Oy : des
6 December 1963 DIR 87520 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. woe : bl FBI, State, White
.: -F. House, Secret Service
“Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 86702 of 4 December 1963 which | . _ {Warren Commission]
gave information on the travel of Marina OSWALD (and presumably also Lee |
Harvey OSWALD and their daughter) across West Germany on their return ;
from the Soviet Union. Information now available from Dutchl authorities
seems to confirm this. On 3 June.1962 one M. OSVALD, listedj'as a male
Russian citizen entered the Netherlands by train at the Oldenzaal border
point. “Comment: It is believed that the 1ksting of this person as a male
instead of female was just an error of the border officials ,j!;Note that
Oldenzaal is opposite Bentheim, the German border point where Marina
OSWALD heft Germany." .

he
9 ‘December 1963 DIR 87731 Subject: Richard BEYMER, American Movie Actor, ® FBI
In Touch with Cuban Embassy, Mexico: City. :
: : Wd

: . . if
"1. The Mexico City News of 5 December 1963 carried a picttre of Richard
BEYMER, American movie actor, who was a delegate to the Film’ Festival beé:
ing held in Acapulco. : : ; . \

: ‘
Hi . é

 

: . . ih,
“2. BEYMER was in touch with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on 2 Decem-
ber, and a person believed to be BEYMER was in touch with the Embassy on
30 November. He wanted to speak to Silvia DURAN, who was not at the Em-
hassy. Another employee told him that no reply had been redeived from
Cuba. an fis

nya .
. fc
- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT =) 70 et : (A) (3) / = RECIPIENT(S) -

 

ee ee eee renee steep . . — - — . ° :

abe
: . mo aah de

"4. DURAN is the Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy wigh whom Lee -H.
OSWALD was in touch regarding a visa for Cuba ogee oo

"3. This office has no information on BEYMER. .

ee
Ve sity

"S$. This information is for your use only and. may not be disseminated |
without permission from this Agency." me ie

\
FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
{Warren Commission]

t

9 December 1963 DIR 87796 Subject: .None given. | if. 4
"1. The American Embassy in Stockholm, Swedeti, has received: a letter
mailed 25 November 1963 in Stockholm alleging that the assassination of
President Kennedy was arranged by the Red Chinese. The letter purports
to he from one Ryo Liang Yuan of the Red Chinese Embassy in Stockholm,
but no such official is assigned there and there is.no record of Chinese
official by this name anywhere abroad. ; 7 ve

a , i
"2. The letter is written in broken English and stated that'the Chinese
communists got in contact with OSWALD when he was in the Sdviet Union.
When OSWALD returned to the U.S.A., the Red Chinese re-contacted him,
threatened to expose him if he did not cooperate. The Red iChinese ex-
pected that the U.S. would attack Cuba when it. learned that, ‘the assassin
was a Cuban sympathizer. The Soviets would then attack the U.S.A., the —
Red Chinese would ask the Soviets for atomic weapons. the Gommunist Bloc
would win the war, the Chinese Reds would then assassinate‘{KHRUSHCHEV and
take over control. o eet py Le

; : oh mh [Pee

tk, The writer said he worked for the 'Départment of Statd’ Secret’, but

no department by this name is Sends to he: sanese Communist Government.
The original

 
  
  

Our Station in Stockholm judges this to be a. crank: letter.
letter is being sent here for analysis." rte i

   

‘1k December 1963 TDCSNB-3/658,408 Subject: -Comments of Soviet Official regarding *
- Moscow Views on International Situation foil-
lowing Death of President Kennedy;;' 2. Resump-
tion of Disarmament Talks. au, ;

a

 

Full dissemination
e

i _ las
“The Soviet official was recently on a trip home. and returned from Moscow

vit

 

a ge
 

 

4 December 1963 DIR 86702 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

~ DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

ath ia: VARA TAimnnididimmeT immune: mesmo eo .

“4, Our information indicates that BURLEY had contact with [foreign].
persons whose activities seem to have been questionable. eee we

"6. The above information is provided as a result of ‘a préliminary check
of our records. The records of this office contain no additional informa-
tion which at this time can be identified as pertaining to the persons who
micht be identical with the men who placed the newspaper ad; or to persons
who might have been in contact with them." oi :

a
i

eee saecanaetin

3 Necember 1963 DIR 86496 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. Fae

"On the question of why Lee OSWALD felt that he could not get his Mexican
visa extended without using his real name, the following may’ be. germane:
Mexican immigration records checked by the U.S. Consulate iniNuevo Laredo
and reported through the U.S. Embassy to both out office and.yours, showed
that Lee OSWALD entered Mexico on 26 September 1963 using the name HARVEY
OSWALD LER. It may he that OSWALD feared that any attempt tp’ extend his
visa would result in discovery that he was in the country under a false
name; he might have had to show some identification to get the visa exten-
ded, and he prohably had no documentation in the name of HARVEY OSWALD
LEE." . tips

: ups:
: ‘Te 4
ile

2%

 

atnente -Senrianaaadann

4 WB
"Records of the Foreigners Records Office of the German Fede al Republic...
in Cologne, Germany, show that Marina Nikolayevna PUSAKOVA OSWALD crossed
West Germany from East Germany to Holland on 3 June 1962. She. traveled

 

by rail, crossing into West Germany at Helmstedt on 3 June qd, entering -
Holland by rail at the Bentheim crossing point. She had West. German visa
694/62 issued at the West German Embassy in Moscow. She listéd.her final
destination as U.S.A. Comment: This confirms information thom the U.S.°.
Embassy in Moscow to the effect that the OSWALD family travelled from Mes-
cow to Rotterdam by rail around 3 June 1962. Helmstedt and ;Bentheim are
on the main rail route from Russia to Rotterdam. While Lee OSWALD himself
and their infant daughter are not recorded in German records|:this probably
because little attention is paid to U.S. citizens and to infants in keep-
ing travel records." Oe Wo .

 

 

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
[Warren Commission]
 

30 November 1963 ~“CSCI-3/778,894 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - | | | . : (A) (B)

"3. On 6 and 7 November 1963 he appeared in the Press Room of United

Nations Office in Geneva and told reporters he was being persecuted. He

also wished to alert the world to the U. S. Government ‘propaganda cam-

paign'. Army reports show that he voluntarily returned to his unit in

Metz on or about 11 November 1963. tye a

"4. Around 26 November 1963, after President Kennedy had been’ assassina-

ted, a Geneva journalist named Alex des FONTAINES, stringer for Time-Life

and correspondent for Radio Canada, was reported to be filing a story to

the Paris offi¢e of Time-Life recounting Private DINKIN's visit. to Geneva

and quoting DINKIN as having said that ‘they' were plotting against Presi-

dent Kennedy and that 'something' would happen in Texas. Deg. FONTAINES

had been prompted to do this by an unidentified female reporter who had

recalled such statements by DINKIN; des FONTAINES thought he recalled he

had heard DINKIN say something like that also, and although he did not

really believe that DINKIN had grounds for his statements when he made “

them, he filed the story just to be sure. i
: it

"5. All aspects of this story were known, as reported above,} by U.S.

military authorities and have been reported by military attache cable

through military channels." . wv

.
er
vb
fo

"1. Attached is an article which appeared on page 2 of the a9 November
1963 issue of the Washington Daily News. The artécle contains’ informa-
tion which implies that two persons might have been involvedijin the as-

sussination of President Kennedy. .... .

    
  
 
 
 

"2, The Washington Daily News article also states that the full-page

ad [placed in The Dallas Morning News on 22 November] which presumably
cost $1250.09 was placed by [Bernard] WEISSMAN, that he paid’i¢ash for
the ad, and that WEISSMAN resided in Dallas at a small apartment house.
The article indicates . . . that he roomed with one William BURLEY, eee

"3. (The records of this office contain information about oné|Bill BURLEY,
a U.S. Air Force Tech Sergeant, stationed in Libia in 1958 who may have
been involved in nafarious activities. You are referred to the Office of
Special Investigations, USAF, for possible additional information.
. iy
6. cet

- RECIPIENT(S) -

 

FBI
 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - «| oe (A) (B)

 

relative luxury in a Cuban prison. While SANTOS was in prison, WILSON
Says, SANTOS was visited frequently by an American gangster-type named
RUBY. His story is being followed up. WILSON says he had énee testi-
fied about Castro activities before the Eastland Committee of the U.S.
Senate, sometime in 1959 or 1960." ‘ .

.
i

28 November 1963 DIR 85665 Subject: None given. - . *

. 4
"Our Station in The Hague has reported that on 23 November 1963, a local
Castroite namell Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS
of the Cuban Embassy in The Hague and said that she knew the 'Mr. LEE'
[sic] who murdered President Kennedy. She characterized 'LEB' as a man
full of hate and violence, and speculated that he had been ‘nisused by a
group'. She said she had written to GIBSON (undoubtedly Richard GIBSON,
U.S. citizen of Lausanne, Switzerland, born 13 May 1935, a Gastro sympa-
thizer, who had visited the Netherlands recentiy and was in‘contact both
with the Soviet Ambassador and the Cuban Embassy). . a

1
"Later on 23 November, Maria SNETHLAGE talked again to Third Secretary
SANTOS and said that 'Mr. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee! had
been slandered. It was another person, ‘named Lee OSWALD', ‘who had done
it. SNETHLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba in January dnd again in
May 1963. : : :

“Dutch authorities have informed us that on 7 November, in thlking about
attacks by Cuban refugees against. the Cuban mainland, SANTOS had replied
‘just wait and you will see what we can do. It will happen ‘soon’. Asked
th ke more precise, SANTOS had replied ‘just wait. just wait’. SANTOS is
reported to have a pro-Castro brother in the U.S.A. dee

"A very sensitive source reports that after his conversations with SNETH-
LAGE, SAN¥OS was furious because she had not contacted him."

28 November 1963 DIR 85676 Subject: Travel. of Soviet Diplomatic Couriers. FBI

"1. Reference is made to your teletype of 8 November 1963 concerning the
travel to Mexico of Soviet diplomatic couriers Valentin Germanovich
PONOMAREV and Aleksey. Nikolayevich POPKOV. oe

- RECIPIENT(S) -

.
Saas

FBI, State, White
House, Setret Service
(Warren Commission]

FBI ;
 

 

 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -
"2. According to our representative in Mexico City, PONOMAREV and POPKOV
left Mexico City for Cuba on 12 November via Cubana 465 ‘and teturned to
Mexico City on 18 November via Cubana, ;

"3. A usually reliable and sensitive source reported that they probably
left Mexico City for New York on 23 November via Aeronaves Flt 451. The
Same source reported that one 'ANANYEV' (phonetic) of the Saviet Consulate
in New York contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on 23. November and
‘requested information on which flight the couriers were taking. Assistant

Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV provided the information on behalf
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City." ; ;

29 November 1963 DIR 85691 Subject: None given.

“1. Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone calls
made to the Office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra, Australia} by
a mand claiming to have had know&edge about a Soviet plot to assassinate
the late President Kennedy. Our first record of this matte#, is a Naval

Attache cable from Canberra sent on 24 November 1963.

"8. Australian authorities working on this case consider the called to be
a crank, They state that Soviet offices in Australia do not, tise anything
but Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of their using a Polish chau-

ffeur. They are continuing their investigation."

29 November 1963 DIR 85715 Subject: Travel of Lee Harvey OSWALD.

 

Information gathered from various foreign sources regarding the travel
of Lee Harvey OSWALD and his wife in 1959 and 1962. 4 ;

29 November 1963 DIR &5770 Subject: None given.

"2. On 4 November 1963, a U.S. Army Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN, serial number
RA 76719292, about 24 years old, went absent without leave from-his unit,
Headquarters Company, U.S. Army General Depot, Metz, France. He was -
scheduled for a psychiatric examination that same day. He apparently
entered Switzerland using a false Army identification card with forged

travel orders. ;
-S5-

(B)

Navy

Army

- RECIPIENT(S) -

 

FBI, State, White |
House, Secret Service

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Servi

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
{Warren ‘Commission]
 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

26 November 1963 DIR 85069 Subject: Travel of Pro-Communist iGosta Rican -

ongressman to Texas on 26 November. 1963.
a
“A usually reliable source reported on 26 November Teen net ‘Julio SUNOL
Leal, pro-communist, pro-Castro deputy to the Costa Rican Nati
bly, planned to leave San Jose, Costa Rica, for Poland 24 Novéitber to at-

tend the World Peace Conference in Warsaw, Poland. SUNOL delayed his de-

parture and now plans to leave San Jose 26 November.

fy

! ve
"Representativds of this Agency in Costa Rica suspect that SPNOL will try

to gather data in Texas to use in pro-communist/Castro propaganda in con-—

nection with the assassination of President Kennedy.

ibe.

 

26 November 1963 DIR 85176 Subject: Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD.
PRO

“The following information on Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD, wife of Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was volunteered by Moroccan student Mohammed REGGAB: jborn on 3
January 1938 in Safi, Morocco. REGGAB is now living at Nuernbergerstr.
19, West Berlin. REGGAB was a student at the Moscow Institute of Cine-
matography from September 1960 to April 1962. He came to Berlin in April
1963 as.a student and on 26 November colunteered the following: informa-
tion on Mrs. OSWALD, who had been one of his girl friends in‘Mescow. He
identified her on the basis of a photo and the first name, Marina, which
appeared in the 25 November 1963 issue of Berliner Zeitung. i+. so ee!
7 . SHS ar

A REGGAB makes a favorable impression and is available for fittHer ques-
tioning." . ‘ :

   

gpident

26 November 1963 DIR 85177 Subject: Telecon between Cuban Pr
DORTTCO as.

S and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Arm
_"Following is account of telephone conversation between Cuban,’ President
Osvaldo DORTICOS in Havana and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, Cuban Ambassador
to Mexico in Mexico City at 0940 hours Mexico City time on 26 November
1963 as reported from sensitive source." (See Chronological Summary on
Silvia Tirado de DURAN.) :

onal Assem-

- RECIPIENT(S) -

e

FBI, State, White
House; Secret Service

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
‘og t0102-10148

 

 

pIS2ige

LEADS INVESTIGATED BY CIA. This list does not include disseminations or memoranda
on Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte and Silvia Tirado de DURAN. These two leads have been
treated separately ulsewhere in this study.

Fach document is listed ¢hronologically in the first column with an indication of
the type of document involved (OUT Teletype Message ; DIRECTOR cable disseminated
by electrical means; CSCI dissemination - through regular liaison channels, or
memorandum). Following the subject of the document there is an appropriate excerpt
from the document.

An asterisk in the column headed by (A) indicates that the lead originated in CIA,
either in the fiéld or headquarters. ‘

An abbreviation of a component of the U.S. Government in the column headed by (B)
indicates that the originator of the lead when not CIA and that the later
responded to the originator. An entry appearing in botit; columns indicates that

a U.S. representative abroad passed the lead in the field to the local CIA
Station. =

The last column indicates which component(s) received copies of the GIA dissemina-
tion or memorandum. The entry appearing in brackets indécates the recipient re-

ceived the document at a later time. e,
,

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Nat Reproduce
74-0000

27 November 1963 DIR 85182 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD. aE

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -. - ;

27 November 1963 CSCI-3/778 , 881 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD/Soviet Activities in
exico

ity, 18 - 24 November 1963.00".
: : an i.

“1. Forwarded as Attachment A is a resume of the observed activities of

Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV and Lvan Gavrilovich ALFERIEV!as reported ~

by a reliable source in’ Mexico City. Attention was. given to'IKOSTIKOV
because of the indication that he is the consul who interviewed OSWALD
on 28 September 1963... . ALFERIEV travelled with KOSTIKOV' to nor-
thern Mexico during the early part of September 1963. Sourcd. reported
that during the period under review the observed activities of .KOSTIKOV
and ALFERIEV appeared to be normal, as did the activities of .the entire
Soviet Embassy complement. | . oy

"2. Forwarded as Attachment B is a resume of telephone catt¥iptaced to
and from the Soviet Embassy on the afternoon of 22 November. |

November revealed no pertinent information."

fio :
"2.  On.23 November 1963, Richard Thomas GIBSON, who was acqiluintea with
Lee Harvey OSWALD, made the following statements to a close friend in

Bern, Switzerland: V.

 
    
  

"OSWALD is 'one of us'. Two years ago OSWALD and GIBS

and OSWALD became a member of the Committee (presumably;'the Fair

\ Play for Cuba Committee). OSWALD is crazy. GIBSON .burned all of his

correspondence with OSWALD. GIBSON is glad that he (GIBSON) is not
in New York now and he feels sorry for 'Lee' who is in New York and

'Tibor'. i

"3. According to other information available to our represelitative in

Bern, Richard Thomas GIBSON, born 13 May 1931 in Los Angeles’! Gilifornia,

has resided in Lausanne, Switzerland, since April 1963. He ‘isa negro
journalist and has been active in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee since
its organization in 1960. In Switzerland he has been involved'in the
publication La Revolution Africaine." ; . ps

 

Analysis of
calls made the morning of 22 November and the morning and afternoon ‘of 23
An

corresponded

FBI, State, White
House, Secret Service
[Warren Commission]
 

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT - (a) (B)

 

"On 26 November, Dr. Jose Guillermo AGUIRRE of Mexico told the following
information to Peter MORAGA, United States Information Service officer in
Mexico Citv: :

“Maria Rodriguez de LOPEZ, said a son-in-law of hers, Arnesto
RODRIGUEZ, who lives in New Orleans was well acquainted with, Lee OSWALD.
Son-in-law is a Cuban who lives at 212 Jefferson Parrish, New Orleans,
tel: Vernon 5-9658. Arnesto RODRIGUEZ runs a Spanish langtlage ‘school
and is anti-Castro. According to Maria Rodriqguez de. LOPEZ ‘her son-in-
law has a taped conversation with OSWALD." :

- t .
27 November 1963 Blind Memorandum Subject: Yuriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. ®

"After examining all our traces on KOSTIKOV, we are convinced beyon¢
reasonable doubt that he is a staff officer of the KGB. Cortributi g
to this conclusion are his associates, his movements, his Méxican ahd
othey,contacts_ and his cover position, as well as his involvement in
the [roe LEWEED operation. Po

; : . ! on
"KOSTIKOV's involvement in frupLewers] is our only reason to jbelieve that
he is connected with the 13th Department. KOSTIKOV was jin Slandestine

contact with [TUMBLEWEED] (as definitely, confirmed by{TUMBLEW ED!'s photo

identification) and arfanged [TUMBLEWE Ss contact in the U.Si~with a KGB
cotleague of. KOSTIMOV's," ; : oe ; ,
28 November 1963 DIR 85657 Subject: None given. sO ote # USEMB

"On 26 November 1963 a British journalist named John WILSON, and also
known as John WILSON-HUDSON, gave nformation to the American Embassy
in London which indicated that an ‘American gangster-type named. RUGY'
visited Cuba around 1959. WILSON himself was working in Cuba at the

time and was jailed by Castro before he was deported. a,

“In prison in Cuba, WILSON says he met an:American gangster gambler
named SANTOS who could not return to the. USA because there were several
indictments outstanding against him. Instead he preferred to live in

1

-~3-

London —

, - RECIPIENT(S) -
~ - - " aaa a et
26 November 1963 DIR 85246 Subject: Lee H. OSWALD. : : ed USIS FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

FBI

_ FBI, State, White_
> House mS

(Sone
