LPO Bath ea

we

+ Adicts PLE

cS Ore an

ee

f.

Ge

h,

 

Savncé
This -Frencth~dé¢plomat has reported information from his sources
on occasions which have proven to be not too reliable.
Sovacd
Our relationship with. this Fresch-diplomat.is-somewhat.delicate,.
Soune
The dekoust is not in the United States, has not been in the
United States, and is not currently in a location vhere he could
be directly contacted by the Bureau.

We have in fact no direct contact or direct commmications at

this time but we do have some possible means of developing

further information which the source may have on thia matter.
OURCE

The Prénghodigistiat may have reported similer information to

his government end if further information is received concern-.

ing this allegation, the fact that this allegation came from a.

Freneh-gource should of course be considered. i

We are endeavoring to take all possible steps through our own
means to develop further information on this allegation.- We
ere giving priority attention to the matter and it is hoped that
we will be in a position to provide the Bureau additional
information.

FE /
Mremeaipieh remarked that perhaps we could contact the-Freneh —

directly on this matter and I responded by stating that we were doing
ell we could.

-Bizeh. De aOLeal
Chief ;"Cl/sia

ec: »Mre-Whitten +-C/WB/3
 

104-10400-10313

we . .

   
 
 
   

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

: SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD
i @ Ar

1. At 0900 on 9 December I called and advised that
the Bureau had a communication from their Miami field office setting forth
information which had bi ceived in a memorandum from our office is=siiesi
concerning a report wi had been received from a Wéstem diplomat alleging —
that the assassination of President ceanedy va was the result of a plot prepared
and executed jointly by the Chinese Comminists and CASTRO through intermediaries.
FS) JdircoPapreh provided some details concerning the information received from their
Miami office which in substance is,1 same information as that set forth in
JMWAVE ‘cable 6658: (IN 75902). eeloten advised that the Bureau had during
the night located Robert NIETO, interviewed him, and wag 4) ‘ormed by bim that .
he has no information concerning GOREES<and FEITO. <dMr.< stated that the
Bureau is very much interested in this allegation, is endeavoring to run down
the lead relating to the bank in New York, that the Bureau has information
concerning Ramon-By—CORIES ; born /31 ‘August /1916, ‘who ‘was-indicted~in-Dallas,
Pexas,~in 1960 on-a-charge of “impersonating the Honorary Consul of -Guatemala.
" He said that this CORTES, according to Bureau information, was in'Mexico City
: . as.of. August .1962 end-this-Cortes might be considered ‘as -possibly veing
i identical -with the Ramon B. Cortes mentioned in this matter. . _
a ke sGSpion stated-that-the Bureau would Like “to” evaluate this ~~ ~~.”
z information if possible and he would guess that this information originatea”
2 with someone who had just come out of Hamega and thet this might be some rumor
or something planted by the Soviets to make it rough on the CHICOMS and CASTRO.
: . It was agreed that anything might be possible but he gave no information sup- —
a porting any such theory. He said that the Bureau was very much interested in
identifying the source and it would appreciate any information we can give on ;
- where and how this diplomat got this information since it would help the Bureau:
a to evaluate this information. He said that the Bureau would find the identity of
: the source and possible access to the source, if in this country, most helpful.

3. The matter was discussed with Mayclhitten-O/uH/3, end he subsequently
advised that he had. discussed the mate with representatives of -Gi@-and with

i | Mewiefens and that I could advise of the identity of the source in |
4 the event ‘the Bureau was insistent. After discussing the matter further with
{ Atercindbben and consistent with his position, I telephonically Sontacted .
A <= and advised him as follows:

a rs

a. he Weeteen diplomat in this case, who is our source, ~te-e
Freneb<diplomat. We do not know the identity of his source.

+ pramanttinee BGA” MHo|_REGORD cory ra]

for FOIA Review,on wy Wey erenige.cohi.or, ake = Bee q Dec h3-

ee ZOveBSAONE

g0efoerree EEpes

  

 
