   

 

(toe to4s-1000]

‘ %

- <A INTERNAL USE omy “SEC CRE 1 a

- - Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel~- ~~ oe “T"Page 4 . oe
Wednesday -.20 October 1976 / ry neers Q re

, | 77-0010 AE ai a

13. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Ken Brooten, onthe ©.

staff of the House Select Committee on Assassination, called requesting

any summary she fhe Kennedy ~~ ,

 

 

 

 
        
  

   
  

  

nformation the Agency might have
assassination. I told Brooten that I had met with Richard Sprague,
also on the Committee staff, yesterday and Sprague had asked for
the same information and that 1 was in the process of determining .
‘if it exists, Brooten was unaware that Sprague had requested this. - .
information,  * : Os coe

14, (Secret - PLC) BRIEFING Attended a pre-trip briefing of |

George Murphy, Executive Director, Joint Atomic Energy Committee, . .
given by Bob Ames, NE Division, aif —_____JDeak/DDO. we
Murphy is accompanying a group of Members from Committee who will

be visiting Cairo, Israel and Iran. Certain material was requested which
Ames will pull together. See Memorandum for the Record prepared by _.
Ames and{ 5 ae

15. (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Met with Frank Slatinshek, Chief .°
. bE ; Counsel, House Armed Services Committee staff, and gave him a copy each
of the classified and unclassified letters to the Agency from the House ..
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control and we discussed the
sensitivity of the information requested. Slatinshek said we should try
to respond without disclosing sensitive operations or sensitive liaison
relationships. He said he would assist if we have problems. I gave him
. ; the letter from the Director expressing appreciation for his appearance
before the Intelligence Process Course. He asked for a rundown of past
members of the PFIAB and any history as to its creation, ©

16. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON Met with Claudia Wrazel, in :
the office of Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), and discussed the background
of the request from their constituent Kamal Kapur. She said she felt
assured that the Agency had not in any way investigated Kapur and will so
advise him. She will call me if anything further develops. 2) 2 8 a

17. (Confidential - PLC) TRAVEL Met with Frank Sullivan, Senate
Armed Services Committee staff, and clarified an incoming cable from
XA i tating that an advance itinerary from the Air Force
of Senator Sam Nunn's (D.. Ga.): aming trip included’a visit with the
oted that there is:no such position ‘in the
German government as intelligence chiefs are only within the various services.
Sullivan sdid this was probably a slip-up by the Air Force here. What is to be
schedtiled is an intelligence briefing by the German Ministry of Defense.
Sullivan will straighten the matter. out.. Sullivan said Senator Nunn will not

have enough ; to. meet wi He felt that[_Jwould probably =~
_ be the best o visit. I said I would check and ate Mo Sovern,
rm cl A INFARAR?!/ Ror ANS ed and will finalize arrangements. ¢ RET

 

 

   
   

 
