13-00000

    
  
 

child in this-phéto was that son, but he had never seo:
child. Source provided the same information on KHENKIN
previously included in MI-5 Report Number 37, referred
in your memorandum. He added to this that the apartment.
building in the background of photograph number (3) is
the location of the apartment which KHENKIN was given after
he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters
he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union
in 1945 or 1046.

&. Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette
KHENKINA, but did not know any of the Others in the photo.
When number (4), Marina, was pointed out to him, he stated
: that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by her
i first husband, GOLDSHTEYN. Source had seen her as a small
child, possibly about five or six years of age, in 1945.
He has never seen her gince, kn ew nothing more about her,
and could not identify her photograph. Source commented .
that he had never met GOLDSHT£YN, Annette's first husband,
but knew that be was much older than she and he speculated
that the older gen in this photograph might be Boria
GOLDSHTEYN. Source gave the following additional gnformation .
on Boris | GOLDSETEYN: He wag some kind of Sei eee of hunettets :
Bot snp 8

 

   
 

  

! she worked with there and the a coneran ntweaphere ntl ‘work,

' Annette was already separated or divorced from GOLDSHTETH

: when Source first met her, sometime in 1944 or 1945. While
| Annette was etill married to GOLDSHTEYN, she had an affair
: with Joe ADAMOV,

%. . Regarding Lev or Leo SETYAEV, Source had never
heard the name. He was not aware that Annette KHENKINA
had married for the third time, although he knew that she
was divorced from KHENKIN and that be was interested in
marrying © wouan who was an editor in a publishing house.

10. Source had never heard of Lee Harvey OSUALD
prior to his defection, and kad no information regarding
his. participation in a Radio Moscow interview in late
1959. He commented, however, that it was set unusual to

 

     
  

 

 

   

(SECRET

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2. bhe interviewer. bgt by the program directors.

 

 

 
 
    
 

SECRET

conduct interviews of thie sort, and dos AnaMoy could
have suggested the taping of an interview. It

not necessarily follow that euch a tape would be used

an actual broadcast, as such decisions were not make by.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES ANGLETON
CSCI-316/01446--64

S.M. DOWNEY: SR/C1/KGBmbg 30 September 1964
Dist&ibution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/ClI

1 - CI/OPS/SS - dmy copy

13- CI/R&A - dmy copy

1 = CI/CI - dmy copy

Li- C/SR/CI

epee... SB/O/U8. dl. day co Y..

1 °<"RY/FI (201-280, 248) ~ dmy copy sev

2 ~ SR/CI/KGB (chrono & comeback)
comeback to SR/CI/Research
after return.

    

SECRET

 
13-00000

     

 

  

 

292205 RRB SSS AES SEE

 
104-10005-10286

 

 

 

TO: (Officer designation, room ‘quniber, and
building) ce Eg Cort
wo ‘ RECEIVED | FORWARDED

each: comment to’ show’: frorn” whom
fo wher, Draw a lite. across coldrmn after each comment.)

 

1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Document nunker S28“ SIL,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* INTERNAL:
USE ONLY

 
13-00000

we

 

   
 
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Sea

Russia - Cuba

: 1. BReference ia made to your memorandum of August 14,

! 1964, Subject: as above, your file number (8) 105-82555,

: in which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be
shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

: (6)
2. VIADUCT was interviewed on 2 September 1864 with
the following results. ev Seven BAeL®. o>
SHA
3. Photograph no.-te——27—_—_—.
(2) “Nike lay“ SERGEYEV~ Bource’ did not“eeedgilied=the™ ~~:
face and had sever heard the name. :

   

 
 
 

as Ancits; Annette GOLDSHTEYN

Annette Henkina (KHENKINA): Source recogniaed

her immediately by face, giving the name Annette

BHENEK IMA, formerly Annette | He :
. not-recall her maiden nase but when offe eh

name ZUGOFF he said this would be correct’

ig an Ossettian name and her father had been:

Oseettian and her uother a Canadian. Source'sa ~~

additional information on this woman is provided

in paragraph & below. -

ce (2) Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, ZUGOFF, formerly kn known
O-
4

  
 
  
 
 
 

 

2

for FOIA Review on JUL 1976

(3) Joseph ADAMOV: Source recognized hig photograph

immediately and provided the name correctly, |
identifying him as his long-time friend, previously
digeussed in the British report referenced in your a
/ memorandum.

“Rox BLfELITS GObA og

., Wmmpen :
“g6e-2euT¢TEeg Lyye6

 

Socument Number

      
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N

ccCREL.

 

r

(4) Annabelle BUCAR: Source recognized her phote-
graph inmediately and gave her name correctly.

Ener ig the person discussed in the British

; report.

(5) Sergei RODIN: Source recognized his photogray
immediately and gave his name as "RUDIK":
RUDEBMAN or RUDIMAN, the sawe man referred ¢ te in
the British report. Source said he is a close
friend of Joe ADANOV's. He is Jewish and was
originally from New York, but is now a Soviet
citizen, married to a Bussian woman and father
of three or four children.. He works in the
English language section of Radio Moscow. He
had formerly bad a very small flat of one or
two roows, with which he was very wnhappy, but
Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger
flat in a building on Peschanaya Street.

   
 
 

 

(6) Lucy (Olga) PRAVDINA: Source recognized her
photograph at once as the woman who had given
him English legsons in 1944 or 1945 when he was
briefly euployed at Radio Moscow. He believed
her name was Irina or something like that, and
she had previously spent possibly ten of fifteen

, Yoars 4p .the Uniged States with her husband who oo
“hed been a TASS ‘man’ there: Source“éeutd* as
recall her last name (married name) but thought
it began with a "K", When Source first met her
she was a program director for Radio Moscow and
did gome announcing. He said she spoke excellent
English, was a good worker and well liked by her
colleagues. He did not know the names LUCY and
. OLGA. BRANDIBA, and was certain neither was

4. eh ar 2 and 3: Source recognized these 1 an
Aenette KHENKINA, of pirearapi 2 (2) above.

3. Photograph mo. 4; Source recognized number 1 as
the person identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

 

 

Annette KHENKINA, Sergei NUDINAN, and Joe ADAMOV. He did

not recognize Hikelai SERGEYEVY in this photograph.

6. Photograph no. 5: Source recognized all persons
in thie photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (4),

and (5) above.
SECRET
