~2-

SUBJECT: Watergate File Research - Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is no other employee assigned to my immediate
office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and
personals ities. .

Robert E. Owen
Chief, _0PS/0SG

   

 

 
 

a

9 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO : .
SUBJECT : Watergate File Research - Final Report

1. The files of the immediate office of the Chief, OPS/ISG
‘have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this :

memorandum. The check included chronological files =f ray
cations of which I was the author while assigned t :
in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found. |

 

2. I have attempted to recollect any other details which foo
conceivably could be pertinent and which relate to the period
of my assignment et The only points which I recall but ~~

-on which I have no tion are these: a oot.

a. There were occasional. joshing inquiries made of me ©
by American residents of about the reported presence
in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was
that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record,
at no time did Hunt contact. me, and I have never known of his
having tried to contact any Station personnel int during .
the period 1970-73. I made no effort personally to ascertain . -
whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by ~
any.Station member. a a ee

'b. A Stationofficer, possibly, I now: ...

"assigned a was given some information byan = | -
informant in 1972 coricerning reported activities in Spain ~— .
by Robert Vesco. I suggested that the information be given :
informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John = 2.2.
Oliver.. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of -..

- developments related to Vesco. The Station did not pursue <=
that subject, as I recall, because it was not a topic of Ts
reportable interest, according to requirements of the pericd. |

 

 

 

  

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use’ Only
: Do Not Reproduce’ .

     

E2 IMPDET oe
CL.BY 056759

 
