 

 

 

“and this

‘paper publicity would serve to make cle

of the letters cane up and we had

 

~

to tur hia back to the Soviets. At the point it was
decided to roturn Subject to Soviet control, he would
be served with an immigration warrant for denurtation
as an undesirable alien, Atterwards, he would be Flown
to Europe and allowed to ccturn to Soviet custody. .-We
would probably wish fo accouplish this in Berlin where
several such turn-backs have beon made in the past

has been accepted by the Soviets. Aubassador -
Thompson asked why we could not indict the nan and try
hin for espionage. We explained that it would bo dif-
ficule tv prove this even if he were to give us a €ull
confession since the ouly evidence would be his own word,

 

Furthe "more, we would be reluctunt to becone involved in

the evitable publicity that a trial of this nature would. _
cause, We are anxious to tearn the truth but are not
interested in a trial or punishncnt for Nosenko,

5.. Ambassador Thompson then said that the only aspect
of our planning: which gitve him pause was the idea of re- -
turning the aan to Soviet custody, He felt that we would
inevitubly encounter criticism from the press if they
speculated ‘the turn-back was in exchange for the release
of the three £lyers,. This the Government’ would very much
wish to avoid, ‘Mr. Murphy showed Ambassador Thompson the
draft press. statement we had prepared by which we hoped
to wake clear that this was not an exchange of any type
but related’ solely to the fraudulent character of the
Nosenko defection, This accompanied by additional news-
ar the real -reasons

 

  

for Nossako"s return,

6. Ina bricf aside with Mr. Davis, the discussion
an inconclusive dis-
We uyveed that the letter which was to
be read. by the wife on the Embassy premises should not be
sent tu the Embassy nor should the Embassy become involved
in this. We'also discussed the possibility of sending the
other letter through regular mail channels to the wife's
address. ‘tle did not discuss what the Enbassy was to say
if the wife called again and I feel I must go back to Mr.

Davis on this question.

cussion of them,

7. - Myr, ‘Hughes then asked if we were sure we had
‘received all we could under ‘the present circunstances,
He was assured we -had and this was explained in some

 

  

 

 
104-10226-10000

an

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 April 1964-
PUEMOR UM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: ~ Discussion with State Department
Officials on the Husenko Case

1. Mr. Helns aid Mr, Murphy met with Aubassador
Thoupsea, Me. Thomas flushes, Mr. Richard Davis and
Nr. Jehu Cuthrie at the Department to convey to-them
vis Cuiclusions just larrived at chat Nosenko is not
a genttine defector but wore probably aa ugent planted
onus by the KGB, Mr. Helms described-the basis for
our belicf and the icans of arriving at it. Mr. elms:
noted that we had discussed the Nusenke case with the
Warren Commission because they had received a report
from the FBL based on the FA('s cinterrogution of Mosenko.
which pertained to the Oswald case. The report made a
“strong case for the position that the Seviet Government
had nothing whatsoever to do with Oswald's assassination
of President Kennedy, - The Comaission was anxious to know
our yeuction and.we informed thea we were not sure of the
wan’s bona fides and therefore could not underwrite the
Stutements he had made.

 

 

Aabassador Thompson. remarked that he had just
heard rom Isaac Don Levine and that the latter intended
-to write a book on the Oswald case in which he hoped to
make the point that Oswald vas mentally unbalanced and
was trying to-break up the Kennedy-Khrushchev. relation-

ship.

: k We ulso related the Krotkov case in
[ke the Nosenko case, explaining the way in which
the Sovicts could hope, through accusations that forner

Ambassador to Moscow Maurice DeJcan was an agent, to
“cover" the nun Us sensitive information
suffered by and reported to us by

the defector Golitsyn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

rtment officials
nst the diplo-

 
 

 

4, We then described for State Dep:
the manier in which Gribanuv operates ay

natic colony,
at @ polut with Nosenko where we belicved we had to use

  

fon, After we tried this we would probably wish

 

 

Nr. Helus wont on to say that we had arrived

ergetic measures to arrive at the truth and determine
 

 

present not to discuss thi

detaid, Wo deseribed the Cl infors
Subject, noting how soae of it was
ae covering leads provided by Gulié
“Mr. Helms deseribed forthe State v

officials
the history of our atten 3 to persuade the to
. Y Poa i ]
eorous action’ on these leads and theif

  
  

 

  

 

      

take v

; filure
to do 5 icuting there are still uctive penetrations
in the intelligence

Services and elsevhere in tho
governur 3 .

%. The meetings ended with Anbissador Thompson sug-
Besting he’ would Like to. bricf the Secretary on the-
brobiew and also discuss it with the State Department
legal adviser, Abran Chayes, and then he would be back
in touch with us, ie asked the other Departnent officers
$ case with other persons,

: David fi, Murphy
AO : Chief, SR Division

 

 

 
