 

é

 
 

et Kr nCREreetrweer Tey

 
 

Re Abe ATS

SECRET - [Boos BISPASCH 5961

 

CONTINUATION OF -
“ "DESPATCH :

   

 

  

 

 

      
   

 

| Cour:

ntermational

    

TIL <THE EMPACT OF CLASC ON THE CRISTIAN DEVOCRATIC KOVEMENT
: 9. CLASC Poses Serious Dancer for CD Moverent. A KUMOMK
. ,Stucy points out-that “Organized labor could contribute substantially
. to. the “development of well-organized CD political parties in the.
‘hemisphere, but it also offers the best chance for-CD extreniste
te cause harm-to the moverent." Few would argue thst how the CD
movement fares and the imase it. projects depend in not insignificant
teesure.on. the posture assused and progress achieved by CLASC.
- More often than not, the judsement of a mass movement is based on
the worst element comprising it ©- and in this regard CLASC is
challenged only by the party ‘youth and student wings. As an
organized Icbor force CLASC has been a dismal faflura (with the .
exception of its campesino am); ite only impact and sole raison
die tp to this time has been. as a political action instrument
with primary appeal to the working classes. It is unlikely that
CLASC, under Maspero leadership, will mellow as do parties when
they achieve the responsibility of government,

 

 

10. CLASG Mas Maintained Posture of Independence, Despite its
“Christian label, CLASC has consistently maintained that it is not
subservient to the Christian Democratic movement or any rember ;
party. ‘The statement cannot be disputed, for while CLASC is guilty
of most of the same aberrations as the least responsible of the Cp
parties, it invariably comits its follies independently, {often,
in fact, setting en example that is emulated by the parties), But
while CLASC can defend its claim of independence, it ts also true
that CLASC does net discéurage the belicf that it is the chosen .
labor instrument, of the Christian Democratic movement, although |
this label has never been formally bestowed,

 

- Ll. Closer Ties Between CLASC wand CD Movement Aspear Likely.
It appecrs likely that a more organic participation of CLASC in CD
affairs is in the offing... A Sesinar was held in Nontevideo from ~
11 - 23 April (sponsosed by the Christian Democratic Formation _
Institute -- IFEDEC) for officials of CLASC who are also officers
of Christisn Dexocratic parties, The Seminar, called for the
specific purpose of arranging closer coordination betweea the CD
political movencnt and the Christian labor movement, resulted in
the signing of the "Carta de Montevideo” on 20 April. The Act
calls for formal representation of ODCA in both tha Christian
labor organization. snd CD party labor departments. To tris end,
a Coorcinating Comittee was formed ~- the Comite Relscicnsdor ¥

   

  
  
 

Ccordinador De Oreinizactones Laborales ¥ Funcionales. re /
Parcidos Demosrata Cristianos. The Act appeals to the Cod parties

 

 

 

Tuas FICATION

STORET Jan. |

 

USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

 
       
   
 

 

 
  
 

 
  
 

 

 

" CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

  
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
  

    

 

to request CSCA-cporoval of the-creation of this Coordinating
‘Gosmitzes and OZCA recognition: of CLASC as its chosen healspheric’
labor instrunent., The eventual approval of the ODCA Icadership
appears. likely; indedd, it 1s doubtful that the, Act would have
exerzed froa the Moatevideo Seminar Lf informal agreement of the
_ OBCA leadership had not “been obtained in advance.* ae .

 
 
 

sé Influence on Perty Youth Wings, Closer
or : cwith the Co political ‘movencne wiil Likely’
“-yub off negatively onthe CD youth wings:which invariably are further.
- #left than their parent parties sand identify much more closely with
“th volutiondry viniage and mystique CLASC has sow and propagated.

Ie is perhaps significant that. CLASC.has intensified its efforts --

since Jcnuary.to establish youth appendages to”the Christian labor:
_, thovement. This. initiativadappeara to have made greatest-progress.

_ in Central America. ~

 

 

 

 

 

OO ge “EV + THE ROLE OF ORCAS
13. ONCA Contribites Little Positive Direction. The Latin
American CD paxtics foxned. their.regional organization in
Montevideo in 1949 -+ the Organizacion Democrata Cristiana de
“Americd-(ODCA). Tha current officers of ODCA are: :

‘ President . ¢ Rafael Caldera, Venezuela
vice President 1 Hector CORNEIO Chavez, Peru —
Vice President t Rene DE LEON Schlotter, Guatemala
Sceretary General: Tomas REYES Vicuna, Chile

ODCA has consistently assumed an anti-Yankee posture on a broad
range of kcy issucs (cost forcefully on the American intervention
in the Dominican Republic). out :on balance has been less strident
in its criticism than several of its member partics (notably the
Chilean, Bolivian and Dominican CD's), probably because of -
Caldéra's restraifiing hand. The Organization would merit much
_ closer attention than we have given it to date 1f it had substantial
influence on or authority over member parties, or could apply
sanctions egainst national groups. But ODCA amounta to little
mora than a fraternity. Its member parties have little ideological
homogencity and the cement of their union appears to be based wore
on revolutioncty mysticism (which most parties are careful. to :
’ qualify with adjeétives like peaceful, democratic and Christian)
and :m negative factors (hostility to the U.3., capitalism and the
oligerchies), thea on a foundation of CD doc trine or basic agree~.

ment oa just what they want.

14. Efforts to Firm Ue the ORCA Role. We have asked contacts
in European CD circles to prod ODCA to sect eriteria for mexbership
and behavior end that the Europeans weigh petitions for support.

sin American parties and organizations against these

“from the Lat 2
exiteria. DYVOUR officers have argued that while the Europeans

cannot realistically require nascent and ill-trained CD groups in
Latin America to hold to the game rigid standards of political
morality that have evolved in Europe, neither should tha Europeans

ween
USE PAEVOUS CORTON. . { Tecassnussa
| ane 9 Leen

 

 
yeannna

 

  
 
 

     
  

SECRET — | BOOK DISPATCH 5962 -
; on ,

par Tie SevUln, AND AUMURe

  

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

      
    
    

(Rens ‘i Natale). ‘These parties appear doomed to the role of
bricusaaids to the handful of parties that réally count.

      
 
   
   

IL . PARTY YOUTH WINGS

 

    

5. CD Strensth in Universities. Ahead of Party’ Strénsth. ‘As
with abl politica “Latin Anerica, the vast majority of
co party militants are ‘drawn fxrca the. ranks of student’ appendages

activa. in. the legal” universities, in most countrics of the hemi-

   

 

   

      
      
  
  
  

   

3th ‘of the. parent party.” A.few examples.

: \Panana, the Party: polled 3.1 percent

-.0£ the vote.in. 1964 pe nd ‘probably would poll not more. than 5 :

: day), while its University youth got -12.8 percent in the |
xy 1966 clection, The Dowiniéan PRSC rééeIved 5.4 percent of

vote. in 1962 (and its presefit strength could well be lower —

because of internal divisions and ‘leadership conflicts), but its

 
   
        
 
       
 

   

Netieducla, “COPEL polled 22 percent of the vote in

: ¢ on the campus of the Central University,
chow. over, polled. 40.2 ‘percent of the vote in 1966, These comparitive
figures suggest soecie conclusions which are presented ia Paras. 19
and 20 below.

 
      
      
   

    

6. Radieslizs ation of Youth Wines. -Sevé¢al cD leaders, most
motebly Frei and Caldera, | have lave expressed considerable concern over
the growing. radicalization of party youth wings, That youth groupa
of every political stripa assume positions to the left of their
partics is nothing new, but the situation in several CD groups has.
gotten badly out of hand. In several countries only an opaque line
divides the positions assuaed. by CD youth groups (or important wings)
froa the stance assuned by Marxist youth elements, In Venezuela,
.the wing of the COPEL youth headed by Marta Sosa is so "far-out"
it has earned ‘the sobriquet "the Astronauts." Chilean President

Frei repor tedly told a German Christian Democrat that his youth
wing £ , danger of becoming Marxist. In Panama, the dominant
wing of the CD youth has assuzed positions at least as radical as
the Communists. And in the Dominican Republic the Social Christian
group in the National University is allied with the Communist
students.

       
       
       
     
        
      
      
   

      

7. Youth Tending to Push Parties Further Left. The great
concern of responsible party leaders is that youth.dnput to the’
parties will swell the ranks of the radical wings and push the

‘parties further left. Sone observers believe that the CD youth
“problem has been exaggerated and, that the "hot heads" will mellow
_once they participate directly in party life and cope with hard
political reality. While this is ‘partially true, we would take
issue with this relaxed view, Tha raw material to be molded is
far different than it was ten years ago; since that time the demand
for revolutionary (even convulsive) change has mushroomed <= ard
thea youth the cry has assumed din proportions. The natural
nehag process. will no. longer produce the same magic.

 

    
     
   
   
   
   
 
     

   
  

    

8. wood for Testnine. . Some believe that the only way of
wrostings “the CD : youth erift to the left in the foreseeable future
ia massive end intensive youth and political cadre training.
ts in this direction to date: (ac IFEDEC, several national,

1 training institutes, ORMEU and various student training

 
 

 

   

acl

    

    

ome]

 

  
   
 
 

Clabsiricanion

1InE PREVIOUS COTO,

 
 
14-00000

    
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   

Ceess Tare Te TUR DT ebOL aNw ea mee

   
    
  

CONTINUATION OF . oe
ee DISPATEH |. SEGRET [soe DISPATCH “396

 

; 3. Parties of Moderate Potential. Applying even the most
geneross criteria to the judgeseat of. potential, there are not
"more than four CD parties -- in’ the Dominican Republic, Panama, .
~ Brazgkl.and Guatengla «= that might Sevelop a as ® moveracaly. important
" forces: = the next: “Eive years. : . .

  

  
   
  
 
 

 

   

Bi
tilitancy ih the. near ‘future ‘appears: saatiKedy. The PRSC has
: -devéloped.a small but talented cadre of leadership, primarily
wTes . frea'-the university vanks,- and is buttressed by the Strongest
ffiliate (CASC) in the Henisphere.

  

 
 

. “bs “The Pansnanian ppc was registered some five years

[ago and polled only3.1 percent of the votes in 1964. Although

it continues a4 miniscule party, it has madé significant

Orgent2ational strides and its philosophy of. vocial justice

gives it roots lacking by most ‘Panamanian parties, which are

ars sely pérsonalistic or tied to. financial interests, “If the
Panema CD.succeeds in expanding its widdle-class base and

i Cateracts militants ‘fréa.the predominantly negro and mestizo

population, it could bécone a force of some importance.

   

  

-.€, While the Brazilian PDC polled a mere 4 percent of
“the vote in 1964, the Party has significant strength in three
‘-auy states of the Center-South (Parana,:Sao Paulo, and
Gusnabsra), Like all other pre-Castelle Branco political
parties, the PDC was unable to campaign under its own banner
in the. presidential and parlimentary elections of late 1966.

' Expandéd political activity will probably be permitted after
the seating ‘of President Costa e Silva in March 1967, but it
is expected. that the number of legally recognized political
-parties will be limited, It appears likely. that the PDC will
“have to merge with another party 1€ 4¢ is to compete in the
legislative life of the country. If the. PDC joins with a
‘party that has strength outside. the present PDC strongholds,
and the PDC uessage and mystique seta the. tone for such a new
political entity, the net result could be expanded importance
for Caristian Democracy in Brazil.

~ a - The Guatemalan PDC was..only recently recognized as

a legally constituted party. This nascent group has good
‘strength in the youth and ‘student movement and growth

: potential dn the important campesino sector. Current direction
of the party leavés much to be desired; PDC leader Rene de
- Leoa eppears honest and intelligmt~ but he has little organs.
izazional flair or charisma. His leadership is being challenged
by a gxoup of militant "Young Turks" on the left. With more
vigorous leadership and the development of middle echelon

caéres the party could develop significantly.

4, Parties of Insignificance, The remaining nine Christian
excseratic parsi parties -- in Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica,
or, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay and Uruguay °- show scant
pr se of developing into forces of national importance over the
next five years. Leadership of even modest stature exists only
in Argeatins (Salvador Allende, Horacio. Sualdo) and Bolivia

TER CATSR
USE PREWTUS FOLTION, SECRET Fag denmemncrn

 
  

 

   
 

 
  

 

erocessiG ACHON

tae bane

"t FT RUA TICS

SECRET

 

16

 

 

FO

i
{CA ARE IDG HD

D

Chief, Wit Diviston _ | reer

Fag

Proc 7 ~ ~ — on
Christian Democracy in Latin America
. ACTION REQUIELA - AGSERERCES 7

 

 
 

ACTION REQUIRED: Kone, FYI.

   

ao The following analyst ‘has been prepared in WH Division and
fig tranenitted to, all Wi Division Stations and Baséé as a review
of the current. status’ of Ciristian Decocracy in Latin America*and-
_ an updating of Neadquarters’ vies on the movenent. ‘We believe
“the subjeét matter merits” se@and careful-study by all Station
operations. and reports officers whose comments are solicited.
FYL, this material, in a ‘ghorter and sanitized form was published
in the 3 Match issue of the Current Intelligence Weekly Review,
aad will thu3'be Widely disseminated throughout’ the intelligence
cowiunity. Nowevér, the WOGEAR study could riot include much of
the "Conclusions ‘section. since it was interpretative and had
operational overtones, “Thus we've decided to send the full text

herein in book ‘dispatch form,

 
  

    
      
   
  

: 1. The decisive wietory of Eduardo Frei in the September 1964
Chilean Presidential election led many to hope that Christian
omesracy might develop significantly throughout Latin Ancrica
éospeting with Communism on ideological grounds and offering an-
alternative, democratic route to social and economic progress.
Christian Démoexdcy"s advocacy of "Third Force" concepts plus. -

’ Gcequont manifestdtions of cnti-Yankee syndrome caused some
observers to swallow hard, but there was no denying that these-

- concepts had’ an ‘emotional appeal, This political charisma,
coupled with a commicucnt Co, basic social reform and opposition te

m, and presented within an ideolozical framework. stressing

  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

Cozmunis
the dignity. of the huaan person, “ coupriséed a p
attractiveness to the Latin American, particularly the-student and
middle class’elements. This dispatch will review the current status
of the CD partics and tho role of Organizations -- ODCA, CLASC,
Pazty youth and student wings and European CD groups ==, which

   
    
  
 

 

DUPATCH SVMBOL AND RUMGER

  

 

BOO DISPATCH 5951

SS

   

ackaze of considerable

  
 
 
 
 

orrrce SYMBOL Cate
We in Safe)

oo re

  
 
 

Deca e NATURE

Led gf
William yj. Bree

OFFICE #YUBOL
c/WHuD

  
 
 
 

 

 

TeaGe AND SuNeee —
DISPATCH 5961

Traseicatien

SEGRET

 

Ce NUATION OF I
DISPATCH : i

 

 

   

represent key factors in the developacnt of the Christian Democratic
movesent in Latin Akeri¢a. Our major purpose is to. determine, some
two years éfter the Frei victory, whether thé: generally enthusiastic
‘assessaeat of Cucistian Democratic prospects engendered by this
highly significant-election was justified. ot

    

 

YL. CURRENT BALANCE SHEET OF CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY

2. Pdtties of Current Sientficance. Christian Deméeratic
parties cfe genctally agreed to. be of current political significance
in ‘énly four Latin American countries -- Chile, Venezuela, EL

“-. Salvador and Peru,

 

 

Soe : pC is the only party with the ‘xrespon=
' Sibility of governing; the solid victory of Frei in the 1964 |
_ >. presidential. election .was followed by an even more impressive
-: »showing in the’March 1965 congressional election. However, the
Party's réform ‘program is being implerented with less than.
deliberate speed, no ‘progress has been made in weakening
Marxist leadership ‘domination of the urban labor force, and
“indications are that Frei's moderation will be increasingly
challenged by the left wing of the PDC. :

   

   

b. The COPEI Party of Venezuela has strong hopes of
Guolicating the victory. of the Chilean Party in 1968 and
appears to have narrowed the gap between itself (22 percent
_of the electorate in 1963) and the governing Accion Democratica
“Pasty (32 percent). COPEL Sé@cretary General Rafael Caldera, ©
“one of the few Latin American CD leaders of international
stature, is expected to be the Party's standard beazer in his
fourth try for the presidency. — oy

¢. In El Salvador, the PDC garnered 29 percent of the
votes in the March 1966 legislative election and one of its
leaders, Jose Napoleon Duarte, retained the mayoralty of San
Salvador. In less than six years the PDC has become the
leading opposition party. Lt has little chance of capturing
the. presidency in 1967, but should be a strong contender by
. 1972, with Notre Dame-educated Mayor Duarte the. likely

candidate. a

d. The Peruvian PDC formed a coalition with the Popular
Actica (AP) Party in 1963; it currently holds two cabinet
positions. Some would argue that. the Peruvian CD (with only
4 percent of the votes in 1963) has no real future in compee .
tition with the dominant AP and.the long-established APRA,
both reformist parties, and thus should not be included in a
Listing of significant CD parties. Some weight is added to
this arguzent by the very recent split off of a dissident
fection of the PDC into a separate party. However, the
inclusion of the Peruvian party here is based primarily on the
fact that it is the only CD yroup participating in a coalition
eovernzent and thus contributes an element of stability to the

id -

political scene in Peru,

oo TUASSIFIEA TON

ace 530 USE Previous EMO, “gE CR ET

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Chief of, Station, JNWAVE Le
NNOP * .

 

 

Jid-Aprit’ Congress NS

HCHO REGUIRTD - REFERENCES v ;
. REF: | JMWAVE 0180.

t ce kt ee

°.. 1, . The purpose of this dispatch is to report thé comments
of AMNMOP-1 on 30 November regarding the forthcoming Organizacion
; 7 ooo Démocrata Cristiana de America (ODCA). Congress.  AMMOP-1 said
“ : ooo: + that the precise date of ‘the, Congress. is yet to. be set though
dt is still Schedvled for mid-April. He now feels that he will:
have a copy ‘of. the formal agenda by: the end of December which
is a full month earlier than reported in the reference, While -
AMMOP-1 is.not-a member of the committee preparing the agenda,
he said ‘that he.is being kept generally informed of. developments
, and that once the agenda is prepared he shoyld be in a position
to influence a revision of the agenda in the event that there
- are no items ‘concerning Cuba or that the items listed are not
satisfactory. -He said that the principal person with whom he
is in-contact ‘on this matter is Rafael CALDERA and that it
will be through CALDERA that he would: hope -to make his influence
felt.. AMMOP-1 also said that. he has been assured by CALDERA
that the. Cuban ease. will be prominent in the .agenda.

2. We will. continue to keep Headquarters informed,-of
developments on this end. :

(Peper Diiwcll

Roger E. MARCHBANE.

7 Distribution:
a =" WH/COG
: an

“> COPY
(ROSS REFERENCE TC. . . SGI SYMBOL AND NUMBER - - DATE . : .
‘ B- 201-767219 UFGA-29068 1 December 1967
- | Caaanoa eae ory

 

 

SECRET : 19-300-10

 
104-10192-10110
vocos

 

 
-vocos

 
