 

 
 
    

froe-iota3-1004d]
i bogs “
2 “a eo
!

    

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

 

            
    

   

+ * “ CLASSIFICATION,
DISPATCH rk oy
Chief, Vs moaunarts 784.
(H-%-16/4

     

Field File No. 20-21 —

(3-6

Chief of Station, (The Hagie”

 
      
    
 

 

 

DATE
19 September 1958
RE: °43-3'° — (CHECK “X" ONE} -
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
8Y QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

  

 

  

 

(syncurasy) °|
Hede MASSING

 

  
  

 

ACTION REQUIRED ;

__.for Your_Inforsation _

Comm) 9587, 11 September 1958
ze

      
  

 

1. Hede WASSING's! Zasearch project mentioned in reference appears
in the opinion of fhe Hegue)Station to be one which should stand on its
om feet and not be supported solely because it is one of particular
interest to the @uPaTHTERe) and carried out by subject for them. ; .

. OL. © a . oO

2. When Hede MASSING was in re Hague) she mentioned to GYMPATKIZER/11 )
that she could approach people in Holland) as in any other country in | :
Europe more gracefully if she had sone! sort of cover in which to cloak
her real interest. In the context of this discussion, she said, as de-

-seribed in paragraph 1 of reference, that she once was going to conduct
Tesearch together with her husband into the motivation which prompted
the defection of approximately 100 Communists who may or may not have
made public their break from Communist or Soviet espionage. She stated
that this project collapsed because the organization which was about to:
support it itself collapsed before she could get launched. She cited
this as the type of project under which slie could make the tyve of
approaches in which thd (SYMPATHIZERS were interested. Approaches
of this nature in fiolland might amount to ten or fifteen but no mores

tt :

@| 3. The above was the nature of the conversation between her and the
9) with respect to this matter. Therefore, if such a project

ts to be supported by KUBARK, Fasg would be inclined to think it should

be done only if KUBARK feels that the project in itself is of merit as

a propaganda vehicle and as a means of contacting this type of person to -|

Zet their full story.in other places as well as(Holland. ‘The SYMPATSIGERS)

would certainly benefit from it in the manner above described but did not at

all anticipate that so extensive a project would be undertaken solely

because they have a somewhat limited interest in it.

4- We will discuss this matter witu Lavell and MASSING when they
arrive in(gollend) on or about 24 September 1958.
a

jak ploy 7

‘ Jack T. Fagg

Distributions
