 

 

 

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Osvald Case: Pricfing of Coneressman_
Richard Ichord, § “May 1972 os . ;

1. Mr, Joseph O'Neill, Office of ‘the Legislative’ -
Counsel, presented Mr. Arthur Dooley, who furnished the _
exnibits requested by the Congressman, and ansyvered his
questions as follows: . as . ; Se

2. Mr. Ichord sid he was concerned over one aspect.”

of the Oswald Investigation from the standpoint of his

committee. He wanted vo know if "during CIA's investigation:
of Oswald when he was in Mexico" we developed any evidence.
‘of a conspiratorial relationshin between the Soviets and-.

Oswaldeither through Our coverage of the Embassv or
outside meetings. He specifically referred to Soviet
consular officials Pavel Antonovich Yatskov and Valeriy
Vladimirovich Kostikov, one or both ‘of whom Oswald

contacted at the Soviet Embassy. (Both Yatskov and Kos tikov |

were identified in the Commission's Report as consular.
officials and KGB representatives.) I told him that CIA:
did not have Oswald under investigation when he was in
Mexico City; directed his attention to the pertinent
exhibit: and explained that the KGB affiliations of the

 

examined the exhibit, noted that Oswald's short conversations

only related to securing visas; indicated that he had been
misinformed; and said that he had no further questions to
ask on this point.

3. He said that his question was snarked by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. a former constituent, about whom he
knew very little when he requested the documents. Since
then he has learned of Fensterwald's dubious credentials
aS an expert on the assassination and of his association
with Jim Garrisson and others of questionable repute,

I detailed our own difficulties with Fensterwald, his
insistence that we are hiding Something, and how, as
Executive Director-of the Committee to Investigate
Assassinations, he has heen pressing us to release our
Classified documents under threat of invoking the
Freedom of Information Act,

   
  

  

CHaUP 4
fron autoratiy
Giwngradior agg

    
 

_ SEGRET

 
   
    

 
 

_ the Oswald case, and that he had

He thanked us for easing h

 

  
  

  

U —SEGRED

   

NEMORANNUM For: p

irector of Central
VIA

Intellisence -

   
     

> Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT 3

: Release of Documents Furnished to the ="
President's Commission by the Central...
‘Intelligence Agency : cae ;

 

On Monday, 8 May 1972, Mr. Arthur Dooley: visited:
Congressman Richard Ichord to sho: i
requested and to answer -any questi

Chairman of ‘the liouse Committee on Internal Security ,:

It was quickly apparent that.he knew very li “about

Fensterwald;* Jr. ; S Coverage:
of Oswald when he was in Mexico City. Mr. Ichord ex-
amined the documents and raised a number of points
which were answered candidly and without r

is mind and said that we could
consider the matter Closed, Mr. Ichord was well-disposed
toward this Agency from the onset and a
anything said or shown to kin w

confidence. A more detailed memorandum is attached,

LLG 4 - Rocca

Denuty Chief
Counter Intelligence Staff

1 Attachment, A/S

i
i

Documen Number §057-947 R

for FOIA Review on SEP 197g -

 

pen

 

 
 

13-00000 .  - \ Meee as,

   
 

4. At “Mr. Tchord's request, I gave him a complete. «
rundown on how CIA learned of Csvalid's presence in Mexico,
and the circumstances surroundiny the photo of the oe
tmknown man which was taken in front of the Soviet Embassy.
T snecified and refuted the assorted allecations regarding |
this nicture which were cenerated by Edvard Ensteia,.’- ;
Wesley Liebeler (a former Commission. attorney); M rk Lane,
Jim Garrisson, and iater Rernard'Fenstervald,.JrviIs
mentioned that Fensterwald told usa year ago that-h =
knew the identity of the unknown man hut so far has note.
volunteered his name. One of Garrisson's charges was that
Cswald was a CIA agent and that we cut him out of the
picture. I took the occasion to stress that Oswald was
not a CIA agent and that we never-had anything to do with
hin. a

  
  
    

  

Ss. I mentioned that when the President's Commission
came into existence Mr. Helms issued specific instructions.
to cooperate fully with the Commission and to give it
complete access to any information bearing on the assassina--
tion; that Commission members, at Mr. Helm's invitation
visited our Mexico City station for an on-the-scene
briefing and inspection. I told him that we have not’
released exhibits relating to Oswald's visits to the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies, because the sources of the above
information are extremely sensitive and still productive,
Mr. Ichord fully agreed on this score and complimented us
on the extent of our coverage.

6. Mr. Ichord asked what steps CIA was taking to
declassify its other documents, I told him of the required. .
five year cycle (one coming up shortly}, the review
process, our interim releases, and CIA's desire to release
them all as quickly as thé need for protecting them subsides.
[I pointed out that most of our material consists of "nut
complaints", rumors, gossip, etc; which have no security we
sieanificance ver se but’ could he embarassing to innocent
persons; disclose a productive and friendly foreign source;
or acknowledge CIA's presence abroad where diplomatically
this would be inadvisable. I cited our experience with the
“crank call" that originated in how
in 1968 we tried to declassify this” €xNIDIt DU
security officials objected on the grounds that Tf would
publicly acknowledge CIA presence on their soil and perhaps
stir unwarranted controversy./I stated that despite the
above-type problems we gradually have been declassifying

 

 
   
  

Seenep — §6x3-

 
 

eee SE UHEL

   
   
    
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

CTA'ts material, sanitizing exhibits,
protect our sources and methods.

 

as. necessary

 

7. T mentioned in passing, that ‘two: other. things
beyond our control have contributed to- the! ‘misconceptions:
over our exhibits: A)The inadvertent. release ‘by National:
Archives of the master list of numbered exhibits:shortly
after the demise of the President's. Commission. without
distinguishing between overt and classified items?! and
B) the fact that many, exhibits ‘bear: different: numbers -
but are interrelated, thus giving a false impression tha
there are more. exhibits than is the’ case.» The release ©
of the master list without the accompanying. documents =
caused much apprehension and misinterpretation, particularly
among assassination "buffs" and Asency critics. I: cited -
the "Oswald and the U-2" entry which was widely. exploited.
until we declassified the document a couple of years. ago.

   

 

 

8. Mr. Ichord asked if any CIA members served ons.
the President's Commission. I said no, but mentioned that —
former DCI Allen Dulles was on the Commission. He then
turned to the makeup of the Commission staff and how it.
was chosen, I replied that we were not: really competent
to comment on how it was chosen but the staff consisted
largely of attorneys of varied political and/ethnical
backgrounds from widely separated parts of the country;.
that, fron my observation, the Commission was impressively
organized and a highly motivated, hard working group.

9. Mr. Ichord stated that he had no further questions
to ask and thanked us for easing his mind. We offered to
produce any other documents he might wish to see. Mr. Ichord
replied that this would not be necessary. He returned our |
exhibits and told us to consider the matter closed.

CEE Mave

Arthur E. Dooley
CI/REA -

'
4

}
|
4

SEORET so

 

 
