 

C -~ Q - - Cc

Pg. 95 = At hospital ba was | MOSKALEV's middle name is
orderly by name of Ivan. Thezje © Ivanovich; so is BYBNOV's .
were other young interns,

orderlies, etc., there,

Pg. 99 - Some momths before F

Kennedy was killed, an inquiry

was being circulated, about

this man (Saul). Someone wanted

to contact him. Word went out that

someone needed his services,

Pg. 109 ~- An alleged former

~~ ~ieDonald called Kimsey)
Agency employee/said the

scheme which "Saul" described

# to kill the president/

could not. possibly have been
activated without help from

very high places in this: country.
(U.S.)

Pg. 117 - Saul did not know h
was being called Saul.

Pg. 119 - Saul told Kimsey that
he often used limp as part of

his disguises.

pg. 120 - In Zurick in 1972

McDonald saw four men. Three
Arabic and.‘one who had a blunt,
Slavic fact with a broad-type Could this have been MOSKALEV?

nose, about 40.

 
 

een

€  €

Py. 121 - Kimsey felt thal Saul MOSKALEV has much greater

 
   
    
    

was a middle-European, so probaly knowledge of English than
grew up with German as second he pretends or admits.
language. Saul spoke English
like an American.
Pg. 143 -. "Saul" said he came
back to the U.S. for a short pdriod
one time, lived in Southern ,
Calif. for about a month, or
six weeks, then moved to Mexico.
Said business was good in Mexic
and that made it easy, or easie
to try to make contact with who
was trying to make contact with
him.
Pe. 164 ~“saul “said a contact h knew/ According to our records,
namedTroit would have OSWALD in

Mexico City 26 Sept to 3 oct.|, ‘!

OSWALD was in Mexico City

between those dates, and was in
and that OSWALD would call on contact with the Cuban and Soviet
“both. the Cuban Consul and Soviet; Consuls.

Consua.

"Saul" said be did not have a
photo of OSWALD but had a contact
in the Soviet Embassy would do
the job (identify OSWALD) for hi
Saul said OSWALD did show up in
Mexico City and was fingered to
him. He sat cla to him in

restauratns and cafeterias.

 
13-00000

€ TE

Pg. 75 - McDonald showed phot
of Saul to men. Man asked if
McDonald's ‘interest had to do
with murder of Pres. in 1963.
McDonald said no, he wanted to
talk to him (Saul) on business

Pg. 76 ~ By now McDonald was

sure that "Saul" was reasonabl

well-known in highly specializ d MO SKALEV is known in internat io na!

circules on the Zuropean conti ent/{circles as scientist.

Pg. 81 MaDonald says that

co-relation between activity
on Vozrozdenya and new types o

influenza in U.S. is disturbingly

' exaet.
Pg. 92. ~ Man told McDonald MOSKALEV was delegate to 2nd
in summer of 1970 on outskirts International Congress on
of Gormisch, that he was dying Radiation Protection, Brighton,

from radiation sickness. He was U.K. 3-8 May 70,
flown to Vozrozdenya where he was
lead to believe there was hospiltal
that specialized in cases of .
radiation sickness and he would
te looked after by famous doctor .
Was interviewed by 3 Russian
specialists: Emile KROPTATE
. Peter GORSACH

Marion LENTZEN

 

 
(i

a Pgs 69 - ricdonatf veya his) search

of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he
said, with a call from an uniden
tified woman. who arranged a meeting
in London and told him she believed
the Russians had a germ warfare
installation in Vozrozdenya, in

the Aral Sea. ticDonald obtained

CIA approval to make contact.

Pg. 70 -- In Germany in 1945
McDonald knew of 12 people
(Poles, Czechs, Rumanians,
Germans, Scandinavians, 2 Russians)
who feared and hated Russia. They
formed org. to observe, analyze,
and report all future activities
within Russia and Russia sphere

of control. Most had legitimte

jobs,

Pg. 71 ~. 24 Sept 70 McDonald

left for London with "Saul's"
picture, McDonald said both he
and Saul were contract men for
CIA. Saul did dangerous: jobs ©
for private interests.

Pg. 73 - McDonald learned that o
Island of ‘Vozrozdenya, Aral Sea,

germ warfare was being planned

against U.S. (Russians transmit

germs in iet streame).

71s and 72.

Note MGSKALEV's scientific
background and travel.

He was in the U.K. in 68,70,

Background is -
biophysics. MOSKALEV's
(GRU)

‘contact BUBNOV/"specialized

in chemical warfare",

MOSKALEV was allegedly
imprisoned during war because
of his German descent or for

black market dealings. Could

he be a double agent?

McDonald met Saul in Lonaon

July 72. MOSKALEV travel shows

‘him in London Nov 72.

 
13-00000
ee , =a

 

. - 5 =

and contacted uriy MOSKALEV in the Fore Ten Relations
Department... MOSKALEV had / previously/ visited Sutherland
to clear up some confusion concerning Sutherland's travel
arrangements to Novosibirsk, MOSKALEV said that a colleague

from the Foreign Relations Section would visit Sutherland.

Sutherland was visited by a man who identified himself as a

4

"linguist", rather than a scientist, and asted if Suti:erland
had any. non-scientific books with him. There was guite an

exchange. - The Embassy report commented that the incident’

‘appeared toobe a bypical bit of KGB hanvy-panky .

£. 12.May 1973 information from the U.S. Embassy

files Moscow, reported that Yuriy Iosifovich (sic) MOSKALEV.

was probably head of the American Section. Foreign Relations,

Department of Sciences and possibly KGB. There is some

indication that he tried via inducements to get a dual

national, Soviet wife of a U.S. scientist, to remain in the USSR.
4. On 23 March 1977 several identification experts of

the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD compared

photos of the unidentified man with photos of MMSEK Yuriy

Ivanovich MOSKALEV from the FBI and CRS.”

 

It was their opinion that MOSKALEV could very Likely be
identifiable with the unidentified man.

5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in Dallas." shows an
Identi-Kit Model composite of an individual who told the
author in London in 1972 that he was involved in the assassination
of President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code
name “Saul"),. whose real name is unknown to the author, bears
a striking resemblance to the photos of Yuriy Ivanovich
MOSKALEV. According to the author "Saul"identified the

picture shown in the Warren Commission Exhitit #237 as

having been taken al the Russian Embassy in Mexico City,

either in the foyer or just outside.

 
- 6-<- -_

6. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C, McDonald,
is the inventor of the Identi-Kit and at one time was under
contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims
in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquerters
sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague
of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking parallels between. the backgrounds

of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book, and MOSKALEV. For example:

; "Saul" ; MOSKALEV
Pg. - CIA allegedl®. knew According to Office of Security,

of Saul. McDonald said he fir t McDonald has been in touch with
met’ Saul in CIA-Has. CIA took CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit.
picture of Saul that started His 201-853047 states he was a
McDonald's investigation. cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi
September 1969. (contract agent)
It is true that Mexico City Station
took photos of "Saul" that McDonald

claimed started his investigation.

Pg. 59 - See Identi-Kit CDH comment: See photos of

composite of "Saul". Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV.. He
bears striking resemblance to

"Saul."

- Pg. 60/61 - McDonald states it Helms, the DDP testified under oath

was obvious that FBI and CIA that he didn't know "Saul."
were compromised at the very

top since both Agencies denied

knowledge of "Saul". Noone wanted

te hear anymnre ahont him

 
 

c a TE

the Cuban and Bulgarian groups quartered in the same bu‘ lding

in Moscow. <Any time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve
it for them, Yuri was.a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB
officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the

West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member
that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.S.
clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri
was entrusted with their welfare only, and did. not attend classes
with the Cuban group.

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an
individual by the name of Yuri who. possibly fit the description
of the unidentified man. This Yéad- to an individual by the
name of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Doctor

of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international

‘scientific conferences for the USSR since 1962 or earlier.

Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a

sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many

of the .documents in his dossier are OO reports from U.S.

scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at
scientific meetings. It is obvious that he has a much greater
knowledge of the English language than he admits. His capability
is said to improve greatly after a few drinks; however, it is
noted that he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings.
It is also noted that on _ occasions he reportedly was not
qualified to represent the Soviets at a particular conference.

His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.

 
44050-10027] C SECRET -
oo ve So ea 1977

. MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT:. Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man”
- Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963
REFERENCES: A. Photos Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City
Station
B. Paperback’ Boot "Appointment in Dallas"
C. Sort File, Headquarters Information on

. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Possible

“Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken Ly
our Mexico City Station on 2,3,4, and 15 October 1963, going
into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in
Mexico City. Copies were provided to the FBI in Dallas,
Texas on 22 November 1963.- Although cropped copies have
appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691, of

‘the Warren Commission Report, and the book “Appointment in

 

Dallas", to our knowledge the individual has never been
identified.

2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General
Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) recognized photographs of
the unidentifid man as Yuri LNU, a KGR officer, whom he met
in Moscow in 1964 while attending an intelligence course
there. He said that Yuri, a fluent English and Spanish
speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for the Cukan groun,

about 15, attending the course. ‘Yuri lived with

 
 

Following are items of interest from selLeetcd documents in
MOSKALEV's CRS dossier:

a. In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no
name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY,
Air Force Col.and GRU officer in the Information Directorate
of the GRU. i

b. In December 1963 the FBI reported that Vladimir
Ivanovich BUBNOV, an attache at the Soviet Mission to the U.N,
and a GRU employee (described as a courier and greeter), met
Prof. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. of the Institute of Biophysics
in Moscow, and Prof. Viktor Ivanodch IVANOV of the Moscow Physical-
Technical Institute, at New York International Airport sometime
in October 1963, in a plane arriving from Europe. MOSKALEV and
IVANOV reportedly were not known to BUBNOV, Because of the
circumstances surrounding the meeting, however, the informant was
convinced that both MOSKALEV and IVANOV were GRU agents. They
were in the U.S. to visit the Brookhaven National Laboratory,
Long IsTand. .

c. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the
IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island,
New York. Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV

was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made

a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to

radiation lethality.
d. In October 1967 MOSKALEV participated in the Second
International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio

Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He

 
fraved ted alon€ to San Voetbey and noparen@ was able fo use
his knowledge of the Bopgtish language lo pet along on his own.
Although he complained about not tnowing much English, he
admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented.

MOSKALEV at’ empted to make propaganda of a paper by a West

.German scientist. A respected U.S. scientist said he fran'-ly

did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious

. notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was

going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera.
From questions MOSKALEV asked, it was obvious that he 'new
English quite well. Although considerable time was spent
arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to
his home, he took a different route, without telling anyone
of his plans, and did not visit the lat. /The BUPNOV cited

in para 3b. who met MOSKALEV - entered the GRU in September -

1960; gradnated from the Chemical War“are Academy (specialized

in chemical warfare) ; was assigned to the U.N. in New york

from 1962 to 66; and as Second Secretary of Soviet Embassy,

Wash., D.C. from April 1969 to April 1974. According to FBI

reporting, BUBNOV was the Soviet handler in a double agent
operation during his previous Washington tour. IN May 1972
BUBNOV wanted classified USAF documents. . Also, in May 72 an
FBI source placed a package in Fairfax County containing
undeveloped. classified U.S. military documents: 35 mm.
QUESTION? Could that 35 mm film have been taken by MOSKALEV?/
e. In August 1971 the U.S. Embassy in Moscow reported
a visit to the Embassy on 16 August of Dr. Sutherland, a
geologist, who sought advice concerning the troubling
behavior toward him of certain USSR Academy of Sciences

officials. Sutherland arrived in Moscow on 15 August 1971

 
