13-00000

SECRET

MR. HALPERN: It would have been. No question. No question. Because if I
remember it correctly, the P&P and L&M teams were concentrating on Southeast
Asia and looking into what the US Government as a whole was doing, not. just
CIA, but they didn't like anything that was going on in that area and I think
that is what began gnawing away at the thing and broke it apart.

INTERVIEWER: OK.

MR. HALPERN: You know in terms of an operation these guys did a magnificent
job in terms of their objectives. They, in effect, were able to stop the
whole machinery of government and wreck the intelligence system in: the entire
community, not just CIA. And it is going to take of couple of generations to
rebuild it. If we ever can. You can't go home again. That is for sure. But
to rebuild what we had at one time is going to take at least a couple of
generations. Hell, it took us 25-30 years, that's a whole generation to get
the thing organized and’ then it came apart. It really came apart. And a lot
of this, because of the Vietnam, also had an effect not just inside the
government but it had the effect of the recruits you got. Even as early or
late, whichever. way you want to look at it, from about 1970 on, we had been in
the war in Vietnam, for five years by then. The recruits, the new people
coming in, who passed all the tests and what have you, and been through the
first training courses and what have you, and they were on their first
assignments from the desks or some of them even going overseas for instance.
The ones that I saw, and I made it my practice sitting in the DOP's office as
the Exec, to talk to as many young officers as I could. Always had an

excuse: a cable who was coming up for release by the DDP, or going up to the .
DCI coming through the channels, I always was able to call the guy who wrote
the thing. I didn't care about the guy who coordinated, I was interested in

8
SECRET
13-00000 |

SECRET

who wrote it. And to talk to them. If you have to stop let me know.”
INTERVIEWER: No, we are fine, keep going.

MR HALPERN: Anyway, I used to talk to these fellows and women to see what
made them tick and it was a very difficult job listening to them many times
when they had all these bright ideas about intelligence, how you could do this
and how you-could do that. And I had to bite my tongue and say, “Well, wait a
minute. You know, we tried that 25 years ago or 20 years ago and it didn't
work." And you couldn't just dampen their spirits by pouring cold water every
time they would come up with an idea, and yet somehow you had to try to get
them interested enough to look into the history of what happened and how you~
did this and how you couldn't do this and how, why certain things would seem

beautiful when you dream them up and write them down on a ptece of paper. In

_the real world it just don't work. And we learned the hard way. All of us.

Trial and error. But you hope that the next group coming up didn't have to go

through that same torture if they would look at the record. And my concern

was that very few people were borrowing stuff out of the registry. Very few

people were interested in going back into the history of what took place and
certain activities. And you can't get it all out of a classroom. :
INTERVIEWER: Right.

MR. HALPERN: And this was one of the things that bothered me while I was in
that job for those last few years is that: how do you pass on the expertences
so that people understand and learn without feeling that they are being pushed
down, without feeling that they are being squashed? Because you want
initiative. Half the business in dealing with human beings is initiative and -
I don't know enough about the technical side but I know enough about the human

side. But you have to stop them. Why spin wheels? Why push a lot of paper

9
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

attitude that threat of the Soviet Union wasn't as great. Not necessarily
seen that way in the Agency but outside the Agency? .

MR. HALPERN: Oh. By- that time people were looking at Vietnam. They weren't
looking at the Soviets. There is no question. I am talking '73, ‘74. There
was no question about that. The spirit of Detente may have something to do
with that. The spirit of Glassboro, do you remember Glassboro,. NJ?
INTERVIEWER: Sure, yes.

MR. HALPERN: Johnson, which began even before Henry and Nixon and. what have
you. But I think that all, I think, was totally overshadowed by Vietnam. I
think that was one of the big problems, the Vietnam War. .
INTERVIEWER: And you saw this not only in the public but also in the Congress.
MR. HALPERN: Uh huh. No question.. No question. I don't think Congress ever
really understood -- well, I know they never understood what Jim Angleton was
talking about on counterintelligence. Hell, for that matter very few people
in the Agency I think really understood that one. And I didn't have any
appreciation of it either until I got into the job as the Exec for the ODP.
Because unless you see an overall world picture it is hard to imagine this big
thing happening around you when you are worrying in one little area. But
anyway, I honestly think it was Vietnam that upset the apple cart. Watergate
just added to it.
INTERVIEWER: Just added to it.

MR. HALPERN: The frosting on the cake I suppose or the whip cream on the
banana split. Whatever you want to call it. But I think with Vietnam that
hurt most of all. . : .
INTERVIEWER: So even if Watergate hadn't occurred, it was moving toward

investigation.

7
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

MR. HALPERN: I don't know if they were Vietnam veterans as such. I think
they did not like what was going on in Southeast Asia. And the so-called
Secret War wasn't a secret in Laos. It wasn't a secret war, for God's

sakes. How could it be secret if the press was writing about it?

INTERVIEN: Sure. . .

MR. HALPERN: It was the press that gave it the name Secret War. The Senators
and the Representatives, they knew what the hell they were appropriating. I
mean, at least the committee members did when they put down money into the
budget, and all the budgets and all that. money was cleared by Congress. The
CIA doesn't print its own money for God's sakes. Somebody had to appropriate
the money, and it was there. And as a natter of fact it was Gwhat the heck is
his name) Saltonstall, I think.

INTERVIEWER: Symington?

“MR. HALPERN: Symington. I'm sorry. Symington was the guy who later got Dick

Helms in trouble in '73 in front of the Church Multinational Corporation

Subcommittee of the Foreign Affairs Committee and not his own committee. It.

was Symington, Christ, he reviewed the troops out in Laos. who

was then Chief of Station, arranged for (I forget who the heck was

 

 

Chief in Laos and Vietnam), but anyway, he went up to the Meo tribes and
reviewed them and then he goes, "I never heard of things like this." What are
you going to do with them when they do when’ they do that? So, but that is
much later. I mean, earlier than the Church Committee itself, the one we all
know about. But this was all background in terms of, I think, it was the
Vietnam. war basically that got people: upset, the problem of the war.

INTERVIEWER: Did you also have the feeling that there was a different

6
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

nothing with the Church nonsense and MHCHAOS. It was all in the foreign
affairs field. And they were mucking around all over the place trying to get
into stuff which we held as classified both we the State Department, the
Defense Department, what have you. Including the use of the Meo tribes in
Laos, it came out some money was involved, people were using Air America was
used, all that kind of stuff. These people were not representatives of the
then Intelligence Oversight Committees and with the advice of the then
Oversight Committees (the four of them we had) we had to be careful as to what
we told these peopte from different committees of the Congress. The four .
oversight committees were jealous of their prerogatives you could imagine
particularly in the days when you had real strong men running the Congress and
they did not want all of these other committees, in terms of jurisdictional
fights, mucking around in what they were supposed to be handling it. -And so
~ somehow we were caught in the middle of the jurisdictional fights in the
Congress at the same time we were handling classified stuff we didn't know how
far you can go with these people. They weren't cleared for a lot of stuff.
So they were real problem children. “And these two teams were the precursors
to what later became the Church and Pike Committees :
INTERVIEWER: Well, were these teams attached to particular committees or
subcommittees? —
MR. HALPERN: Yes, well they were representatives of particular committees. I
’ just can't remember what.the committees‘ names were.
INTERVIEWER: OK, right.
MR. HALPERN: It didn't really matter to us. They were not part of the four
oversight committees.
INTERVIEWER: They were not?

4
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

MR. HALPERN: They were not.

INTERVIEWER: OK. ; ;

MR. HALPERN: And the oversight committees, maybe that was one of the
problems, didn't do much oversight as you well know. And as a matter of fact
I remember these reports from DCI's coming back saying, "I got nobody to talk
to up on the HiT. They won't listen. All they want to do is give me money
and personnel. -And they say, you know, "Go'do your job." And so this is
true. I have heard that from senior officers in the jobs I have held at staff
meetings over and over again. The Director came back again and he doesn't
have anybody to talk to. Nobody wants to listen. Nobody wants to- know. And
there is. Senator Stennis and Saltonstall and all. of those others.

INTERVIEWER: And Russell]?

MR. HALPERN: And Russell who sat on the floor of the Senate. You Know there
are certain things you have to just accept and not Know. about. Or Goldwater
even today, when he was chairman of the Senate Committee said, “This Committee
shouldn't exist." So the four oversight committees never gave us any trouble
really except toward: the end, they were very clear about one thing. I think
it was Russell who told I think Dick Helms, DCI -- and you can check the
record on this one I'm sure -- who told him, “this is the last year," (1
forget what year it was, I guess it must have been '71 or something like
that.) This is the last year we are going to fund those Meo tribes for you.
It's getting too big. Turn it over to the military," you know, "and lose it
in the Defense budget." Because it.got to over a dollars and
“all that kind of stuff, I guess in those days that was a little big. .
INTERVIEWER: Well did you have the impression besides Pincus that Paul and
L8M were also Vietnam veterans or. . .?

5
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

Interview with Sam Halpern

23 and 30 October 1987

INTERVIEWER: As one looks into the background of the Congressional
investigations, what in your mind do you see as the most important factors for
bringing about the Congressional Investigations in 1975? It is an awfully
large area. .

MR. HALPERN: I think if you look into the history of the background of why
the thing started it began long before the Seymour Hersh articles. The
Congress was planning to go into something like this anyway for a whole
variety of reasons. I think Morton Halperin and his group on the outside as
well-as the ACLU and liberal Senators (particular Senators) were itching to
get-at this for a long time. I am trying to think of the name of the (he is
now a Washington Post reporter). investigative reporter (I'm trying to think of
his name but I can't) who was in Government for a while, didn't like what he
saw largely as a result of the Vietnam War. Oh, Walter Pincus.

INTERVIEWER: Walter Pincus?

MR. HALPERN: Walter Pincus had quite a bit, I think, to do in the background
in organizing this whole effort. And not many people realize that the title
Cit is a long winded title) of the Church Committee was actually a title that
was prepared by the staff people months before the Church committee was even
heard of or even Senator Church knew what was going on.

INTERVIEWER: Is that right?

MR. HALPERN: It will take’me some time to look for it but remind me to ook
for it. I put together some language on this many years ago in terms of the

inner-workings, what was going on behind the scenes among the staff people in

]
SECRET
104-10324-10002

 

SECRET’

fy _ INTERVIEW WITH
SAM HALPERN

 

Ralph E. Weber 23 October 1987
30 October 1987

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

the Senate to look into intelligence across the board. CIA was just one of
the targets, T guess one of the main targets,. but not the only one. And it
was just a happy (from their point of view), a happy combination of

circumstances. Seymour Hersh was looking at different things and had access

to different sources and wrote those two stories in December of ‘74, which

just dovetailed beautifully with what they were trying to do and brought

together what they needed and what. they wanted. And that is where the title

.came from something the Church group came up with the title. It was the

staffers and the various other committees who had worked this out months
before. And by the summer and early fall of ‘74 these guys were ready to go
and when views from the ‘Church Committee impetus came, there it was. They had
the title, they had the paperwork, they had everything done, and they just

pushed it through.

; INTERVIEWER: Do you feel their efforts along these lines even pre-date the

Watergate investigation?

MR. HALPERN: Well I don't know if it pre-dates. the Hatergate or not. I can't
say. I just don't know. I think there were some possibilities of going in
tandem with the ‘Watergate. But I don't think that. the Watergate problem
itself was what these guys were interested in but I wish I could identify them
better. They were targeting against intelligence as such and they succeeded.

INTERVIEWER: - And some of it was disillusionment with the...

MR HALPERN: Disillusionment with the Vietnam War. No question about that.

There was another guy. The name was Paul and the reason I say that -. the. last
name was Paul - because we;'in the working of the intelligence officer, we had.
a hell of a time with two Congressional teams that used to go out for
Congressional committees -- these were staffers. One was made up of Pincus

2
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

who later became the Washington Post guy. Pincus and Paul (I am trying to
remember what the first name of Paul was) but we always regarded them Pincus
and Paul: P squared. .

INTERVIEWER: That is P-A-U-L?

MR. HALPERN: P-A-U-L, yes. And they were problem children in terms of having
to advise the field; the State Department had a similar problem advising the
Embassies on how to handle these guys and how to brief them, what to brief
them. We weren't trying to hide anything, or kid them or lie to them or

anything like that, but it was a matter of how you really work with these

people to try to get them to understand what you are trying to do. These guys _.

were always traveling around Southeast Asia, in particular, and it was mostly
during the Vietnam War problem. “And the second team (we called them L&Ms)
first the L stood for ~ Lowenstein was the L (and I'11-be damned if I can
think of what the M was). But. I think in looking into The New York Times in
1973 and 1974 long before the Watergate thing and the Church Committee

business began, these. guys were always floating around as Congressicnal

staffers. I forget if they were the Senate or the House but anyway they had

these two teams which were real problems in terms of the Executive branch of
the government having to deal with. the Congressional branch of the
government. The old conflict of foreign policy that lives in the
Constitution. I think the Constitution was made that way, to. have the

‘stresses and strains that we still see today.

INTERVIEWER: Were these teams looking at the domestic?

MR. HALPERN: No, no. This was all foreign.

INTERVIEWER: Oh, all foreign. ,

MR. HALPERN: They were all looking at foreign at that point. They had

. 3
SECRET
