a a rd ~ ee metre eae see 7. A Ree
a

of the Chicago Field Office, to report an
approach made to him by a My. Kroupansky

who reportedly was negotiating with the
President of Panama to investigate communism
in Panama. Cain was to assist Kroupansky fn
this endeavor.

| -2-

B. June 1961 - Catn contacted Mr: Lohmann,
i
i

; C. Summer of 1961 - Cafn was met in Hexico
{ City by a CIA staffer, identity unknown,
fo purpose unknown.

D. October 1961 ~- Cain wrote to Mr. Lohmann
from Panama. He reported on his findings of
attitudes toward the U. S. in certain Central
American countries and offered his services to
the Agency. :

E. April 1962 ~ Cain made an unannounced visit
% i presentatives Winston Scott and
. . in Hexfco City and informed them
! of an investigative agency he had in Kextco
. (with branches in Chicago and Los Angeles) which
he used to provide police training to Hexican
Government agents. Cain could provide no proof
of U. S. citjzenship. He was told by Messrs.
Scott and that the U. S. Ambassador did not
approve of American citizens becoming involved
in Mexican politics. ;

F, 4 June 1962 - Catn was deported from Mexico
for carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles,
impersonating a Mexican Government official, and
violating his tourist permit by working.

G. 139 August 1963 - Cain was met at the Lake
Shore Drive Athletic Club and Adolphs Club tn
nois by WH Division staf? officer,
and the Chie? of tha Chicago DCO
fTieca. The contact report states that in the
distant future Cain would like to work overseas,
possibly with CIA. {It was pointed out to Cain
that his current cooperation with CIA might be
of benefit to him should he apply for employment
with CIA in the future. At this time Cain worked

 
2)

yt

  

: : . . a Use On,
; . . . oy Not Reproduce

{

i

|

WH/COG: 344-74
10 January 1974.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT : Salvatore Glancana and Richard Cain >
REFERENCE : Chicago Tribune Articles of 28 and 31
December

_ J. A routine name check was conducted on Salvatore
Gianeana with negative results. A sheck was then made with
the Office of Security to determina whether their records
reflected that one Salvatore Giancana was ever employed by
CIA as alleged in the referenced Chicago Tribune article of
31 December 1973, We were advised that any Tnqutries con-
cerning this matter should be made to Mr. Breckinridge,
Deputy Inspector General. WH/COG touched base with Hr.
Breckinridge who said that he had received a copy of the
referenced article. .

2. We have developed the following information on
Richard Cain, subject of the referenced 28 December 1973
Chicago Tribune article. Richard S$. Cain was born in Chicago,
Tilinois in October 1931. He dropped out of the first year
of high school in 1947 and enlisted in the U. S$. Army where
he served unt{l discharged in 1950, Following his army service
j he was associated with investigative enterprises in Hiamt and
: Chicago. In 1956 he entered the Chicago Police Department
(Vice Squad) where he remained until? 1960, Concurrent with
that employment he operated the Accurate Laboratories, a private
investigative business. Listed below is a chronology of CIA
contacts with Cain: :

A. Fal} of 1960 - Cain initiated contact

with the DCD Chicago Field Office and val-
untarily provided information on tha activ-
ities of Cuban exile groups in the Chicago

area.
4 E2 IMPDET wanes Si thisg Gudlery
: CL BY: 054555 SroRal QAiN te S7UIN/
Shelty ADinc
. .

Pa
ee eran

| on i

~3-

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office. He

also was fin contact with Cubans in the Chicago
area who were involved in ventures which were .
not completely legal. Cain was told of Agency
requirements in general, and agreed to assist
the Agency by providing information on under-
cover activities of the Cubans, especially
Paulino Sferra and his contacts, providing
names of any Cubans who might be useful to
CIA, and noting in particular rumors of any
CIA contacts in the Chicago area. .

H. 26 and 30 August 1963 - Information from
Cain to the DCD Chicago Office was passed to

the Cuba Desk at Headquarters. The 26 August
information concerned the Student Directory, a
Cuban exile group located in Miami, Florida.

The 30 August informationrreported Mire Cordoza's
interest in purchasing arms. -

I. 11 September 1963 - I requested
a@ PCSA/CSA on Cain but there fs no Indication
it was ever granted. Lo

J. 12 September 1963 - Cain reported to the
Chicago Fleld Office information on persons

claiming to be representatives of the DRE -

Directorio Revolucionario Estudtantil - who

purchased arms for the DRE. Cain planned

another meetin ged DRE rep- .
resentatives. via DCD Washington
and DCD Chicago, got word to Cain to “get out

of the picture” as soon as possible and to make:
no commitments. . .

K. 1967 ~ The Office of Security files show
that the FSI in 1967 initiated an investigation
on Cain because of alleged Mafia connections.
For this reason the FBI recommended that CIA’
terminate its assoctation with Cain.

L. 15 Apri] 1972 - Cain returned to Chicago fron
Mexico City, then disappeared about 1 May 1972

~3~

Z\o
ob atteavanet

ante agian BRIA

ets See tht Se aes Geb SPU ate!

- GAGST

n4- oe

saying he was going to Latin America.
Cain allegedly was involved in illegal
international arms deals and on vartous
occasfons stated he was working for CIA.

M. 16 a FBI agent Jn Mextco
€

 

City asked or traces
on Cain. cording to the FBT an Eastern
Airlines pilot had identified Cain as tha
skyjacker who forced him to fly to Honduras
on 5 Hay 1972. .

3. There is no indication that a clearance was ever
granted for the use of Cain by the Agency or that he receivad
any compensation from the Agency. We have been unable to
Py ppanetate Cain's claim that he worked for the OSS during

 

Orville Bathe
C/HH/COG

Distribution: ;
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - COG Chrono
1 - C06/0S
. he Originator
“@- Off. of Sec. L. Howe
1 - 201-323871

DDO/WH/COG/OS:CHopkins:rb (typed 10 Jan. 74)

-4- 6a,

 
