 

 

 

« ele

 

te hor about her “future” and said that 1] hed been somewhat impressed by her
flwency in spanish ond skility te “get around’, 1] asked hur if she hed an
interest in cong: to. New. York and discussing an eaployment possibility .
which would make use of her talents, in anseer tw her imyairi«s as te whew. --
ashe would have to do, 1 vaguely referred to re,orting anc ariting am poe -
gibly sem public relations activity. Sho agreed to come and 1 advanced
her $180.00 te purchase her plame tickets,

“ 6. The question of "leave to come to how York wos brought up for 1
told her that I didn't want her to g-t into difficuitics with her office.
She said that she w.e pretty mach her own bOes ens wouw.d find an cie ute
exeuse, Later we deciied that I woul send her a tede,ram dn tae nome of
her fath o frum New York telling her thet fatner eualu ue in nee fork for a
few dass and vould like to see her. whe believed chet this «auld ve & 2000
exeuss because sll her ciose high level frienca inclucnay Gor dU-B 15
know thet she te very atvaghad to her febocr ami ..30 Ut he 4 a8 wer
money from tins to time. 1 aise .@k-d ehete ro ber ou Lo bew Yorn wuts
ere.te any suspicions on tre pert of the solice or APRLZ peord.g oh
wis ausc i. souidnit beca se of the rather nigh rete of oralfic by luban
offiel Js te ant iran few Yorke he thoalt adalcaess while bud, TELuue.

wie honvstly fault thet Lee York souls ve alle taet iodo. olice fur hear to

- qe

 

 

    

 

* 9. tides CoB’ told me sue hoe an office on the i.:tn fiver wl te dead
bubluisg fic kevana-whieh is the sine. building ona sans Lioor tn & iat
Celin hea his office, she has 2 seeretory ami uw ;rivete vs flee. ats prin
Gipal task ia that of sublac culutiuns wisemevie usiish ia Grane di ge
She a2.c. coca transl. ata: ona Of bewapspor ee magbebie tac athe

“Yn aicitdon to sublic rabations she Lately tue bee a cusing Mors a. Ure
Ainvolved in the "Youth Movement" o. the ceveliti Gory oscrmmal. ae of
har sresent tesks La to organice “Youth caups" ai! te asau dena Loe an ine
flux of “Foreign Youth leaders*® whe abull be dovdies iy tie mre oo cvebubarn or,
Cubs. one bes (repent contact whith Fidells weurcitri-s, Calla ow une ant

LoRA, amd cialis lo Gee Fluel absui two or tice tames & vuoK ct

erigcs, ugusily to tranalate some articsics, “te has dally contact
with her boss, J:74, :xeoutdve Chief of Fidei v vb US idee, ode receives

& Salery uf 28) pesos a month ana the fringe benerato bet able ether acvalue

thomecy goveriment an, loyees retelyee

 

 

  

Lng

 

     

 

  
 

8 Mise cuss, on American citizen amployod by tie vuban cwolubiury
- Govermmant,-is a difficult type of person to choract. rice. ctwrdn, Jou
the horth smcrican midwest, se left Lome in her carly twenties onc naa wea:

restless ami sure or less “Lomeless® ever since. ne la "bohendlen’ op a .

type, and hur Iifo sith Latin Americans of all waike of Life ner cuid her

eonaider:bly ami has receved much of the sumaniiness ana a math frat tur,

Due to many factors in her past abe has becuse overtly haru and ovla am
Gonfuovd, She doven't .aite fea: .. ume anywhire chy more ata tobi ae un
several occasi me thet she hap newer been fuily accupbal by bic wetter cluas
Latina, or Latin Amoriceno from the sarc waik of Life she cues fraz. he
belicves this 48 one renson why sho "fSts" a6 with tie “newluld -oarkes"
for thay too are no: fully accepted uy havana Jubsens ans more or ansa stick
to theaseives, Miwa OULD has undergone auch awtioual etresa i: her. Lire

 
 
  
  

 
 
 

104-10218-10100

 

 

 

 

   

. RESET TOs Adel, 12/h oo

- Gontact titer of

 

 

re

aA ane [Po

 

DOE
sunsets Mnsting vith fase GU, Aide to dean OTA oO’
DAEs = deme Fhe $1989 pe es an

Prosts Hegwy MERMSDORT

‘ my . i

le Om 3 dems 1940 (following arrangesants made in Havens, Cuba tus :
weeks earlier hy the undersigned), Hiss Jume Cus: arrived in New York City |
for o series of nestings and ble recruitment +8 a contact of the oli if
Oivicien. poe

2. Originally echedalet to arrive Friaay evening 3 aay, Miss Coith
arrived early 7riday mornicg, having left Havana tre jp revi-us nlyut,
travelling by way ef Mieel, Thies eamplicated satters scme-hat since Hise
COBd woe net fully informed of the true ressm for our askin, bur tu come
to ew York. <a 6 result, che mede oumbact with u few poo, le sham xe
would have rather not have bad Ler see prior tu mur contad with hor, hiaeo
of al: personas contacted in dew Tork are contained ino ssp. .cate memyranoun
based on Phe. ea cut in dagiingtea un 6 June 1964, ohe also
Hew York,..anJ-attenoted to
find out about ae fran him, Hs bed been briefed hy ae warlicr in the weeh,
however, ant merely referred to me a8 a “friend” with many contacts in ,
newpaper flald and in govermecat cireles. Aiss Cuid anoed ne as “nenry tg
Rubmer" ani as far as I knew, she hes no kpowloi,e of uy real name. 4

 
 
 
 

3. My first contact. ate kioe CJbe wes made is, huvana, Cuba on 2a
Hareh 1960. ‘ve net 1a the ee, Rop of His uamana Hilton potel share |
was introduced to her by of Ry cover of the Line
was thot my visit to Havens bas ig sponsored by “G.irman ani ¢rench newa=
spor interests", leaving somedast vague my specific sponsors. Miss Wubb
did not inquire about mo amy furthar et that time and wae helpful in getting
@ppointaents for me ami kr, Claus Jecoti,-a Loitimste Gersan correspondent |
of "ber Splegol*, with eertain Cuban efffelals. «@ met sain ssveral tines = =”

 

  

_ during ay stay in fievana saa found hor 4 woman with many contacts anong

loaders of the wevolutiomary ovement. Beforu leaving Cuba 1 met her for
dinner in ag attexpt te evaluate her possible usefuiness to us out ade no
furtour effort toward a reeruitment.

4. After returning to Headjuerters anu aiscusaing her strategic {
position within the hierdthy of the nevolutionaries, Calef ah aad Chief :
*H/& opined that o recruitment attempt should be made in view of the in-
erecaing interest in the setivitics of the Cuban guy -rnment,

em ARR

 

Se Om 20 May 1960 cn another trip to. Havana, Wes sis was. again core
tacted and after two eectings was anked to cumu to xew Yorks at so tine
in oy discussiuns with ber ws Cls named or inforred. In navana 1] talked

 

+ <i miananesiandee

 

 

 
 

 

 

~ stature ageinst a forces she unce firmly believed in tut litely hse been

’ ghe said she suspected I must oe fron cla begaus: so other gov-rmmment agency

 

  

1
y

1
0
rs

‘

 

oun

Gir

G, As & result, I do net foal she is aa "Sdeal* aga
in view ef the lack of centacts in the sevolutionary aevencat esxi the
ef ths offielal greup, I feel she exa be of nse
pasa informetion end material te us. :
RO

. 4 ot difficult problens «ith Hiss OUBB. will be central.
has shown good conspiratorial senso shich at first surpriced me eomexhst..
bat oft«r learning more of her back, ound ami past activities (long Lilicit
eral engaged in dope traffle) it La probably by now eccomi mature
he will elso need couaiderable stesriig tlowse:d inteciizence tergote.
Although si.e site in the aidat of mmcrous actavivics of Lateiligence interest, |
her ow personal interests anti] oow have been along vestly diffrent ilies
and much of her post sctivity with the covolutionery goverment hes bog

g@eided by emotion ani idealies. she is exthusi.stic and is liable to take

her first intelligence assigneents with some dil evtantisa, not purpossfuly
but .2 a result of her "collaborating? «its: a inituc itetes s-rviee of sone

E
2
t
t

 

turning againat buea.ce of fallure to mit.ricli.s ciong the ideaistie Lines
8i:@ originally articap ited.

 

» 10, Hhos CoB: aleo hea wiry few materlilistic alua or Gesires. Money
means almost mouthing to hor ag is indicated in the cu,srt on-her sepri stings
Of the @aah acvanced hor for a rowed trip tiex:t t. sew York si ; urcdused
& ope. ray. ticket ani used the other to pay off cette, obese thuu,ht novhins
whitsocy-r of this and apparently obtains and spxica money witncul « true -
realisztion of ite value. Ghe lives over her tucoze 0, ayprosicately Luv
pesos (equivalent to dollars) a wonth, making ap tue JIS rece by hanaouts i
from frienda or, if she 4s really caught stort, uy heaving her fatiie sem
her noney.

Li. while in New Terk, several meetings «re neld with her and she was

g@recualiy indoctrinutod to the fact that cy interests in hur were of ap intele
ligence natare.. ClA was never mentioned in our ub cussions yet at one ,olct

   

  

Oparetes outside of the United tates anu ner post cxperieuce with the ral
wes of a nature to indioate thet tney always ush hor to visit thas ot tusir
offices, (She.was suestioned once un & trip to kew York in conection with

the farita Lodi2 case.)

12, «hile in New York discussing Ler ,otoiticl with her, it was obvious .
that her complex bac»ground, present «ctivitio», vst ¢irose of friemis and |
her unsteble character vould call for a more thorugh aebricfiag. She agreed:
to come to washington with ae te ‘see and talk to a frieni ior e technical :
@veluation of her ability.to act securely" anu on 6 June 1960 she arrived
at the hotel Blackstone in “.shingtos registering +s anmevell «ilewa. arrange
ments ware made with al/4/C] to have her pelygre,hed to which she agreed, 9%

* ‘Mat evening ehe was taken to the Uotoi aaleizh where an enteaive debrivfing |
and evalustdun of her waa made, Tho results of tiis debriafing incluaing a |
shronology of her activitd:s and past iistory sre contained.in a separate +: fe

SECRET

   

Specs me ape

 

 

EN TU el AR

   
 

 

 

 

i
i
i
j
:
f

 

 

 

- Gontect, if acwiacblo, at that time, I vorieve ti
" detersing if tiey want to have locai access to HL.
. if Kies Cl5B can be coctreiled and accepts stucring, it euuld perhaps be

 

: wanting
activities in Guba, she could have te be completely honest, and subject herself

to some control, che was given a fow targets to concentrate on until our naxt
mesting as am attenpt to evaluate her ability along there lines, .he mag,

- seked to obtain nazea and contacts of soviet ans satellite citi:ems dealing
‘with the Kevolutioumry goverment. Sho wes -54.d to see the Chief of prensa

wham she knows sell and monitor his cctivities, che was uskes to find
@ ruse to see Kuny mal, bead of the rres China huws ¢gency (Communist, and
monitor hia activities also, Aigo, aiw was tous Lo try bo ucteruine aut
tunes Jimines sccuzplished on hia visit to the .oviet union. she was told
thot oii matrers -ortaini.g te Cubs reletiuns alth the wed Chinese anu the
soviets sre uf Interest os well.as any imticetims of loeal wnmumict. party
acidvitics with the Sovermant. 7
2S. At Lir:t i eas planing te go to even» to epbendian 4» 10¢al Gon
tact, ho-uver, just before hor auparturs Kiss 2.0 Bugy estou Llt she mate
anotocr trig to aew York around 1 July anu to wa.cuss tae matter of a socal
bbe pevana tuted should
CvSb ad her uctivilicse

 

~ edd Bd.

 

desirable to sould -her into « long ran.© aaset uy having her because very L
eozy with ths Cowes adst leadors ani beoune, overlay, een more “rovlu® about i.
the revolutionary sovemnt. Later sie could ,«rhajs be wret ejso-tere in ke
Latin America, probdsbly among the rabid left «ing youth groups tiuat are |
becoming inerocelrgly antieAmerican and more .owerda di Wetious efuese

   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   

ce an

 

STs.

: 16, we would appreciste any comments the havana tation nay have cone
cerning where end Low to establish contact with ber locally. @ feel thet
her usefulness has current need and ane may be sole t> nanuls many un the
spot assignments for the lotal -tatlon. ne Joes niewd direction auc thet
too could best be handled iocaliy. Nar next visit te New York bes aircady
been laid on cy her phynician frieni who will re west her te vieit the city
for "trestment” bafore the doctor ucerts for wurope on «an extended trips
Miss CUBR was informed that if hur services art consiueroa uucfui, oe «Lil
pay her & sum of XO Caibam pesos a conth. sue agreed but she was tole tint
any unreliability or indication of aishonesty on her part evuulc oresa the
ralstionship. The cum of QO pesus wzs muggectod after discussing the
matter of compans.tion with oe scalor member of tne liavana tation

Distribution:
orig = si/4/cl
bea w/o)
La :/4/tl -
a ~ hermscorf

Aor eee

 

Nemee rene

 

  

 
