 

 

: Garriacn' ® ataif that
“ Aloerto: ‘FERNANDE "

  

ra) Involve nent in < aun'e investl cation:
tm th atay (667 LABORDE tolephanod the DCE office

 

/ tn New ‘ rleans, Bald that né was’ an “ex-ClA euiwlayee,
: added tiat’ he feared Garrieve would gubsouna hie,

and re sted agslotance or advice. ‘Michael W.
LADOADE, the son of bawrence, hae told iernbers of

t Ws fatier was associated with |

(see preceding Suy-aragrapy),
with Gerald Patric: HEMAUNG, and ofe “Roy” to perhaps:
Leroy COLLINS | 7 ta training’ Cubana as guerrilla
fightero. Ailehael LABORDE hag alse t-o:ttcated CIA

fa this tratalng, On 27 Sestenbor 1967 Lawrence J.

 

 

   
 

 

. GABORDE aysin called the DCS cilice in New Orleana..
In accurdance with Headquarters! Instructiona he was

told that thore was nothing to discuaa.

(3) DD} relatlonahis: LABORDE was a DDP
contact (rom FPoabruary oy March 1991 to 20 April 1942.
Re served aa acting captain of a veasel owned by
FERNANDES and used by the Miami Station in Cuban
er perationa,

{. Alfred J. MORAN (201 -772772).
(1) rior seferencea: None.

. (2) Involvement in Gazvison's investi zation: A
mexnerardua fron DCS New Grleans, 15 Novainper 1467,
reposted that Hunter C. Leake of that office and Alfred
3g. MORAN are very goud [riends, that Lease attended &
patty at MGRAN's bone on 14 November 1967, and that at
that-thne MORAN told Leake that he (MORAN) had been
in touch with a :sember of Garrison's atail, Assistant D.A.
Janes ALCOCK, who cueationed MOKAN about an
occasion when Clem GEATAAND and MORAN wore ia the

“VIP roa: of Eastern Airlines at tie New Orleans

International Airoort. MORAN told Lease that in his
opinion Garrizon has an “tronclad” case against Clay SHAW
A DCS New Crieans resurt af 13 Decan.ner i927 adds tuat
MCRAN told Lease on 11 Dace bot 1957 that ALCOCK

and aaother representative of Garrison's viiice tad ehuen
him, so:netic:e in (37, what was allezed to hg a shotccory
of the daily tog fravn tae VIP yoors atthe airport. MORAN

+ . “

 

 

 
 

 

 

\ :

recozateed hie own ehroature and tat of Arthur <.
DAVEE {a 19: rinent New Grisans architect). He eald
that tue nang Clas BERTRAND wae pointed cut.to hin
on t.e list and trat Clay SHAW 's aacce was pat on the
lst. ALCOCK and his calleazue éaid thats aancwritlay

‘exvert had coniirmed that the signature “Cle. BERTRAND"

had deen ‘written by SHAW. B Ip noted that the pcs |

apo; 13 Noverber i9t7 quotes MCRAN as saying that
ain the VIP roan ne the oécasion a pout which
ALCOCK Guestioned MO. + Whereas the +3 Decaciver
iPu7? resort quotes MCAAN a ae edying that Le did not seo
SHAW ta the roo: at that tine.

 

(3) DOP and OCS relationships:

‘{a) DD?. A chacn of MORAN's file showed
that he wae cleared og '5 December i902 for use
by jifamd Station. He was aprrsached oa 27
Deceinber 1962 by Sr3. Garmel T. Dollar, acting
2a vohalf of tha Station and throuch tha good offices
of DCS New Orloane. Agreeing to heb> the Station
matters, be became president asd
pinsereecatt MORAN “also-permits use of hia own
company as @ furding cechaaiam”™ for
Cc] tGommenmt: Mian Station cable 0425,
23 November 1967, does not identity MORAN's own
conrany, bat DCS New Orleans has reported that
he waa the ilret areaident of Kalvar Corporation,
which manulactares ntcraiiin.) MORAN bas acted
as a opotter for the Mia:ni Station and has
" reconmanded aeveral ether business .xca who are
being used sy the Ststion. "He has algo made
availazlo several all comcenies in which se owns
interests ior use in Sachetonping cover * of certain
o>erational vessele af thé Station. He ia or has
bean used by Headcuarters for ceveral activities
directed by the Cifice ci Logistics. Gi Miand Station
nereannel MCRAN sao net Mr. Ray BE. Millard and
Aty, Charles C. C. Treap (formerly DDS /tHfice
at Logtsttce) as well ae -frs. Dullar. Is addition to
he knows Ceres Lateroriaesa
Sac. and the Mia:al Siatioa operational vessel Baris.
He aleo snows that Miami attorney Mr. James Costello

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee en ene nt -

 

 
 

 

et - @) BRADLEY and tws co.s anton
weré arrested vy Cuban Get on 23 tiny 1909
one charge of emunterrevoluldonar; setivity.
(BUADLEYY collaoerated with the Cuban
authorities while in rlsoied om the gle oi Sines.”
Newas reyatriated, with other A.:ePricaas,
-on 22 Aorih i903. ° :

  

 

So (¢) DDS-HB reucated.a ?rovisiunal

Covert Security Acsreval on 25 May 1946 in

order to ueo Lesile Nor nan BRADLEY inside

. the continental U.S. as a co-pilot e.aployed by
Soutiern Ale Trans vert Jac., Mian. Cn 33
Gctover 196. DDS-HB requested cancellation,
and eruploy:nent was considered ter::inated.
Kt was later estaslshed, however, shat Subject
reneined emoloyed until 12 Sestember 1967,
when be was dropped (or unsatisfactory performance.
further fwyjulry ie vader way.

a. Alserto Federico PERNANDEZ Hechavarria (241 -241358).

() Prior references: Mae:norandum No. 5,
7 Auguat 1947, Enclueure 4; Menorandu.a No. 6,
7 Seatesnder 1967, sage i.

: {2} Envolve.sient to Garrison's Investigation:
FERNANDEZ wag tdontified to one of Garrison's stati
as the head of a Cuban oryanization which enployed
Lawrence Josepsh LABORER (soe vzlow) and others.
LABCRDE's son Afichael also sald that his father worked
for CLA. ,

(3) DD? relationshi:: FERNANDEZ bas veen a
contact of the AUaond Station fro: December 1F5u to the
present, although pay nent ceased on | Dece-nber 1965.

e. Lawrence Jossui LABORDE 20] «2942 33),

9 eriar references. Méernerandun No, 3,
i June 1987, ». 7 and Rnelosure 2; Memorandiucn No. 4,
20 June 1957, oo. | and 3; Memorandum No. 4,
7? Aagust 1967, 9. 3, Me norandu:n No. L, 7 Beptenbder
1987; ap. 4 and 5,

1

   

 
 

 

 

nee

&

Garrison may te, to boslicate BLOWN In tre
‘asoaddination plot’, ‘T ¢ allegotion te-that in socne
unehectited wanser Browa wae involved with the CIA
in, Re ovjective of ‘coverlas tip ' the ‘cone vtracy' tor
Preaideat Johason. Ayneawortt sald Gervage hae

‘docu nests, including at least one in Garrisva's own |

handwriting, Which sresamaoly have been extracted
tron Garrison's iiles. :

7 (3) pb? velatisnanks: Tre avave resort seys
that BROWN !aa coo;erated closely wit. CLA in iunding
operations. Caeéks ara under way.

¢. Leslie Norman BRADLEY (202 727378). * ar

(i) Prior references: Memoraadun No. d,
26 Avril 1967, Enclosure 5; stemorandan No. 2,
3 May 1967, Enclosure 4.

: (2) Involve-aent in Garrison's investigation:
None known to cate. Darlag the week 21-423 Docomber
1957 several US. newsuaners reccrted that on 20
December Garrison's office had accused one Edgar
Eugene BRADLEY of North Hollywoud, California, of

 

. conspbring to assascinate -resident Kennedy. On 27

Deca:nbder ke was arraigned on a fughtive comslaint and
teluaged op bis own recoynivance, Lxtradition ie currently
moot, There is no CLA record of Edgar Eugene GRADLEY,
tm or avout 2) December 1907, however, the Washington
bureau of the Los Angeles Tisies -nade an inquiry of the
A/DCI regardiag Lesiie Norman BRADLEY. Tie Newowees
fg@ove of 5 January 1963 speculated that Garrlaon vudaat

have comtuaged Edgar Eugene with either uf two other men,
one of wha. is"... a semettine Now Crieans allot

naccted Bradley who wag once jailed in Cuba for anti-Castro
activities.” Tite dcescrivtion Mts Lealle Norman BRADLEY.

{2) DD» and DCS relationshi,s:

(a) At his recuest, Leelle Norman BRADLEY
was met ay the DCS olfice tn wlinmeanvlis ier one .
and @ hall hours on 45 June 1903, There was no
otner DCS contact.

 

gre

a ern ee tne gees ee 7

 

 
 

 

 

 

.

Richard Case NAGE LL Claliie falsely to have
warned (E Sefore te aasaseinstlon, Clabus falsely

ta oe Agemersaifitiated. Serving a ton-,ear tern ie Eh Faso.
Montally and envtionally undtarle.

t.-

 

 

-f. Booald by NGRTON, Flown to New Crleans at

Ye eaccase and debrieied ina taped fate rview. |
aatansive thea with CIA. Shaw, “Perré, and. Cewald.
Discharges tres ‘tha u. S. Ale Force fo# 5 aychtatete reasoas.

 

yO Ordon Duase NOVEL. Garrieon sought to extz adite
hier feers Usis as a witness. “Both NOWEL and Garrison have
laloel> aseerted that NOVEL worked for CLA.

 

OAL Lee Harvey OSWALD. Gafrigen alleges that he |
was CLA. .
wa. Jacx RUBY. As above.

@ Edward Stewart SUGGS. Clatns to o¢ an investigator
tor Garrison. Claline iormer-CIA thea.

H. DETAILS

1. Tats snemoragdum provides information about two tyres
of persona Who are presently or potentially Invelved du District Attoraey:
Janes C. Garrison's investi zation of the assassination of President
Keanedy and ona ure ar ware sasoclated with CIA. Inforanetioa ia also
included aboct a third category -- these who have aever neen associated
with CHA bat assct whom a CLA the bag beon asserted, by the ngelyvea or

athers, i

2. Greer i inthe idrat category consiets of present or lor ner
DOP cantects. Grous 2 consists of present er former DCS centacte.
Group 3, as wae ested auove, consists of dinvostora and of there woe
bave had nv association with the Agency | aut who have deen sllesed uf
Rird parties ta us C1A -eifitiated. -

3. Grous t {total of 3)

a. Franciecs Antonio BAKXTES Clarens (261 <233335).

4

 

 
 

 

a

“hee :
Le (i) Priar referoaces: Me morandun, subject:
Garrison Inveatization of Kennedy Assassination:
Francisco Antonio BARTES Clarene (201-23 98 35),°

24 Nove:nder 1967.

; . 2) nvulvacsent iu Gareleun's investigation:
None: anownsto date. Hie for:ner puaition.aa head of
the Cuban Re voluthomary Council (GRC) ia New Crieans.

 

‘and tue earlier the ta Lawrence LABORDE and othere .

in. reevect to guerrilla training tor anti-Castro Cubacs
hae already, however, seen drawn to Garrison's attention,

(3) DD? and DCS relationahises

a) DEP. Although a POA for ase in
IMATE was recuested on 29 December 19% and
granted 3% January 136i, the request was cancelled
om 30 Auguat 176!, and BARTES was avt used
during tiie interval. (Per JMWAVE 9453,

4 Decenber 1967.) On 27 May 1945 SCD/AB/OPS/3
resucated a PCA to perrait the uge of BARTES as a
pilot in the Congo. The PCA wae’ yranted on

23 July 1969, andan OA on 3 September 1945.

Teatkay of Bubject'a still as a pilot resaated, however,
that he wae not qualitied for tre fatended aasignment.
He waa returaed ty the U.S. caul February byob
without baving ween used operationally.

  
 

{o) DCS. The Uret contact of DCS New ~
Orleans with BAATES occurred oa 4 May Wel.
Between that date and ) Jawuary (9%7 a total of
13iseetiags toa place. BAATES la tne source of
ix DCE reporta. Contact bas not oven terminated.

b. George BROWN.
(!) Prior references: None.

(2) Llavolvement in Garrison laveatiyation: A
DCS Houston seaport of 2f Deceruver 177 statea that
George BROWN received a diaturning telephone call on
22 Deecenber it2? from Hugh AYNESWORTH of Newawees,
who said that Bill “Gervage" (Conunent: Preeunaaly
ideatical with Willan HH. GURVICH) bad inuicated that

3

 

 
 

 

 

MESIORANDUM Neo. &

SUBJECT: , Garrioun aad the Kennedy Agoassination .

i. SUMMARY.

Tite :ce.norandun le lengthy cecaabe kt resorts on thirty
peréone iavolved in Garrison's investigation. Eight of theese have or
had DDY thes. (C4 these el gat, three have of had go-ne contact with
the Domestic Contact Service as well.) Eight nore were DCS contacta.
Fourteen had no aifiliation witn the Agency but chained ta bave ar were
said uy otuese ty have bad such a relationshiy. Seven of tutal of thirty
have not ay eared previously in this series.

é, The DOY contacteere the followin 3:

a. Franciec> Antonio BANTES Clarene. Cuban refugee
leades tn New Cirlaaas who hag cone to Garrison's attention.
DN? slot 20 July (46.09 6) Pesruary (766, DCS contact
% May 146) to oresent,

b. George BROWN, Garrison fe revortedly trying te
Pagiicate his in the “assageination plot’. Has seen seth a
DD? ami a DCS coatact. Dataile are being ascertained and will
we reported. :

: ¢. Leelle Norinan BRADLEY. Garrison has charged
an Edgar Eurens BuXADLEY with veing one of tie cone oirators
but nay have caniused hiv with Lealfe Norman BAADLEY. The
latter wae ein; loyed as a caenilot by a CLA-controlled sir line
fron 26 May 1964 undid Sentemser 1967, He had one DCS

meetings om Zo Jume i9s3.

4a. Alverto Federico FEANANDE? Hechavarria.
Iseoti(led t0 Garrison ag a Cuvan leader associated with Lawrence
Josenn LABORDE, GO? contact iran December J}bu-to present.

ec: Lawrence Josest LABORDE. Hie son ae reported
op hin aad his aasvckates to Gerrigon's stali. DD contact
fvon Feoruary of Mareh i9il ty 29 Apehh Deed.

 

 

 
 

104-10189-10018

 

 

UNITED STATIS GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

Director, Domestic Contact Service Dare: Ll January 1963
OSS (Musulin) : :

HOU-8-68

Chief, Houston Office.

Case 49364 - Possible Involvement of

George Brown in Garrison Matter .
Haynes/Musulin Telecon 5 Jan 68

i. In connection with referenced telecon and to anticipation of

. receipt of memo on this request From Musulin, Haynes ceatacted
' Herbert FPrensley and learned that he would only be available early in

the morning of 8 January as he was leaving town for several days at
mid-morning. Feeling that he was fairly well informed on what Musulin
would request in his memo, Haynes made arrangements to see Frensley
before he left town. , ’

2. Freasley stated that there have been no further developments
in the Gurevich approach (through the Newsweek correspondent) to Brown,
Frensley had advised Brown to ignore the matter and thus far he hag.
Frensley says’ that Brown has not the slightest intentioa of trying to
gain access to the documents referred to by the Newsweex correspondent.

 

3. Frengley wag most appreciative of the small amount of back-
ground we could furnish him on Gurevich and his methods. We will keep
you informed if there are further developments.

orn bike
; cy _ ERNEST A. RISGHE

BenPHaynes/mf

 

we DER

Buy US. Savi Tags Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 
 

 

 

t, Alfred J. MCRAN, Hae seen questioned uy
Garrison's staf, DOT contact fron i? December 1962
to present. OCS contact Cram 21 Decedber Sood to
yeogent. Since i? Novemnoer {064 contacts lor the DOP

Lave seem handled by the DCS.

: &- Victor Manuel PANEQGUE y BATISTA. Hae
been ideathiled to Garrison as having been in charge af a

| CIA training cacy da Loutelans. DD? tro: 13 Novenber

1964 to 31 Cetover 1965.

_.. Ss Bonilla SANTANA Galindo. Wae interroyated
by Garrison and etalf (oz five days in Faarudaey 1967. DDP

‘contact iroca Cctober 1}22 te Cetaver 1953,

3. The DCS contacts aro the folinwtag:

a, Carlos Jobe BRINGUIER. Has seen liaterrogated
aad polyyraahed by Garrison. DCS contact Fenruary and
April L307.

a. Willian: Wayne DALZELL. Has deen queetioned
dy Garrison aad staff. Alleged he wae a:iliated with CIA.
DCI contacts in November 1960 and in January and February 190).

«. Gerald Sstrick HEMMING Je. Wao identified to
Garrison's staif aes parse:nilitary fastructor of Cubans and
later visited Garrison's offica. DCS contact fran Cetover 1940
te Mareh i96:,

4. Jack N. ROGERS. A Baton Nougs attorney Ja touch
with Gareiaca’a siatf, DCS contact from Sesteniser 1973 to
the present.

e. Clay SHAW. Arrested 5y Garrisun on a charge of
conspiring to agsoasinate resident Kennedy. DCS thea fran:
December 1245 to Aday iy Se.

{. Cecil Maxwell SHILSTONE. Member of Truth and
Conseyusacea, lnc., waleh donates -:cae; te Garrison's office.
Lileloa, ‘tiead.of two menzers oi the DCS atfice ia New Orleana,
but official comtact caded fa ifde.

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

: ge SCLLU MBERGEA Walk Sars eying Cory “oration.
oald uy Garflava Bad utnera to Ma,e owen the veris inal owner
vi explosives: fe.neved fron q unser at.GLy's tnatizativa
for uso at tlhe Bay of Pisa. Current DCS Contacts with
various SCHLUS MBERGLA. oillces.

 

 

_soha. Garrett UNDERHILL Jr. Dead.
ws olayed be Rp a8 a CIA contact who Loew:
bes contact

  

froin Late pa to the wi 49d" Be

Tre versons, falsely clatsita Agency afsiliation, or

4.
.6vch clai..e- hare. vee y others. aré the followiag:

avout whain

   
    

  
         

a. Valentine: ASHWORTH. - Interviewed by Garrison's
etait. Now in jail, ‘ASHWORTH has tlained a Mak wit CLA
and former asauctiation with Cewald.

». Guy BANISTER. Dead, Ravinarte bas alleged
that re was associated with CIA and with Minutemen Invalved
in the assacsination.

c. Maurice Brooke GATLIN Sr. Daad. Rav czarts
has alleged that be wae negotiated with’ BAMISTER and GIA.

dad. David W. FERRIE. Dead. Garrison has charged
that PEXBIE waa a rnemver of the conaitracy tor the assassination
ef Presidsot Kennedy and tnat he worked for CIA. .

©. Lovan Eugene HALL. Subosvenacd vy Garstgon ap
&@ snaterial witness. Garrison charzes that ke worked for CIA.

{. Lawreace John HOWARD Jr. Aa above.
_B: Jules Aiceo RIMBLE, Ofiered information te
Garrigon's staff. Claimed aliiiation with CIA.

h, Wau LOGAN. Said by Gordon NOVEL sad
Ra-aparts to have baen a CLA advisor to the Friends of
De secratic Cuba ta New Vrleans. No pertinent identilable
infor:nation existe.

 
