13-00000 —_—

REPRODUCTION
SECRET PROMIRITED

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIII
1. DIR 74673, 10 October 1963 - dissemination
to Depattment of State, Denartment of the

Navysand:,the. -Federal Bureau of Investiga-
[FOIA 6-3]

      
  
  

ternal. Note ‘from ROCCA to HELMS, dated
5. March. 1964, [XAAZ-22803 - FOIA "No.
79<250h-°

3. InNgaal Note from ANGLETON to ROCCA,. ‘dated
12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809 - FOIA No. 689-
298) oo

 

 

4. Memorandum for RANKIN, dated 1 aay: 19643 .
subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time
in Helsinki on 10 October 1959. _ [Duplieate
of FOIA No. 758-325] .

 

 

REPRODUCTION  — ssone
- PROSIBITED

Penanes te ee sens ; cee, oe fannee  te e
13-90000

oreemnttt tae im oe cotta

SEERET

1 daly 196)

 

    
 
 

5R/cl/Research: 8.Duncanzel
Rewritten: RHelms/ecd - 1 July 6h
Distribution: Orig & & - addresg

L ~ GEAR
2

ete

| PROMBITED

Siena) Nickard Heims

Richard Helos

‘REPRODUCTION

PROGIBITED

0062137

 

| ae
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

 

ee ee a ne ee Oe

OU. Z1d6

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the. Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of
the passport to the man to come back to this country and that i
has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc. '
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the :
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be i
sure that whatever is said in the report is conferred in and it . ;
is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will
have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said i
and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make.

Dc: Well that will be fine. Thank you
HB: Good bye.
(tape) mcm

ec: DDCL
DD/P

 

~— SEOREI

‘RPROOUTIOR =

PROGIBITED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

\ .
wee ste (€22134

 

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m, tee

DCI:

DCL:

SECRET

I just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection
with your investigation of the situation,in Dallas. I know
the importance the President places on this investigation
you are making. He asked me personally whether CIA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just
wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

We have had the very best support that we could possibly
expect from you. ;

Good, Well you can call on us for anything we have.
We will feel free to do that

1 think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and I am delighted that the President has called on you to
make it.

We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various
wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man
was the right man etc. that firedthe gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have
dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter i: Mexico City.
We have now found that the: photograph that was ta :en was not
that of Oswald. We do find from our informant do\mn there that
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has -
given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit
to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it wald take three’
weeks. He had, I think, a visitor's permit for about a week or
ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

- Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have

those operational sources down there. We want to handle them
very carefully. It involves some very high level people down
there. Sam pe andi have talked about that a couple of times.

Ki baw

 

Me. Katsoubech “who is handling i it for the Department - . ,

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will
of course go over it very carefully because it will be a report
that will be released to the public, probably through the White

REPRODUCTION =

PROWIBITED
13-00000

“REPRODUCTION
, PROBED

‘6. The second point in the referent memorandum
concerns the pape that were available at oe Goeae te
on Oswald before ees ay of the assassination.
ically, there were ‘ive documents which had Beene
the Agency befdre, ‘the assassination. Two of th ents
had been sent t¢ us~ the FBI, two by the D
State, a Gone byt “thes S Navy. A 201 file
had beait opened-a .\@December 1960 on the @asts
rece eae the £5 t of these five docyxen

  
  
 
  
  

 

 

Like contained. records that had b ’
any ney coaponent. The Mexico C Station eporting | :
of the mbaitering of Oswald's activi S inv co had not :
as yet been included in the 201 file. TK tinent cables
from Mexico City were held at the Mexico b®anch at Head~
quarters, while the data contained in them had been
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were
incorporated into the file following the assassination -
and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
including the Warren Commission.

 

 

7. It should be noted that no particularly great
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald hefore the assassination because Qswald's
name had-no par SS ar meaning before that poe vent.

S ‘

8. Th regarding the records we sed
before thes Bes9 8si ation as well as the ma
computeri eeetds ystem were explaing ee
Warren, meaberas s Commission, and@ youn cota '
comms rk members when the pipe

Mare 64 for the expres
act itz oN ur 201 file on Oswald wax@ shown: to them
at the tige. From all I have heard regatding this visit,

the visitors were satisfied with our records system and
the manner in which we kept our records.

  
  

  

 

  
 
 

axrters

 

Paul iiartran . |

- QU0218
REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

Telephone. Conversation between DCI and J. Edgar HOOVER
26 Nove 11:20 a.m.

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

REPRODUCTION
‘PROGIBITED

REPRODUCTION sere
— PROSIBITED.
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

: CONFIDENTIAL EX~ /093L

      
 

a
hief, a Staff

  
  
 

  

Metorandum of Conversation, Dan
& <oRather/Les Midgley and the DCI,
> Dated 6 September 1975

1. The referent memorandum contains two points
which require comments. The first point concerns
allegations that were made shortly after the assassination
of President Kennedy and that ve crept up every so often
since then. In one form or sees’ xr, the allegations are
that Lee Harvey OSWALD had/een J connected with the Agency.
The allegations are tota suEe ded. .

2. The facts regérds
- : SS
a. On 2 Qoyembee

~ Mr. R.G.Roc > immeas
make a tho: checks} thin the Agency at Hosineietors
to determin e e Harvey OSWALD had ever been

   
 

    
   
 
 
 
 
 

conceivable way.
. directly and personally to the degree possible and not
to accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex-
plained that he was following instructions from:Mr. R. 1
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one, (of the i
Agency's key contact officials with the Warrén oo

Commission. aan : .

b. Although I had already checked: the Main: Index

of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, Ir
rechecked the Main Index and found no’ record beyond \
that which I had already obtained before (plus: those \
items which had been integrated into. the- records system
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO
records which indicated any Agency connection with
OSWALD.

 

fa
c

eet sunter 12B-(OOO | | _— ne :
_— NOV 976 | RECORD cor | a
- CONFIDENTIAL ebp7s

| 980-2 F 9.28

0002105

Rernoouerg = ver
PROHIBITED -

 
 

REPRODUCTION

PROWMGITED

 

 

3. Memorandum for Chief, Ci Staff, dated 18 Sep-
tember 1975; subject:..Allegations of Lee
Ilarvey OSWALD's Connection with the Agency.
{EX-10932 - FOFA-No. 1188-1000]

 

: |
i
.
|

CUG21Ng

--RePRoDUeTION — ee eres
PROHIBITED |

¥

 
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
a i PROMIGITER

C SONFIDENTIAL (

  
  

c. The next c tiponent I checked was DCD.
There was no ¢@soyd in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements: were then made for me to check
telephonica y with -each DCD base in the US. The
chiefs kth “bases ‘then serached their records .
and spoke with<thegr officers. I was then advised
by seek © GE the end \eivie fs or their designees individ-

mR? a there had been no contact with OSWALD.
Neo

en checked with’ Division D, SE Division,
and LA’D Qin, s Cuban Operations Group (COG) for
any informal desk records. ‘The results were like-
wise negative. ;

  

e. Through the Sec ah
(GRS) of the Office of 6am
-£iles checked. There agcno record of OSWALD.

ty Research Section

  
     
    
 

: a} records on Americans,
Pet, igan, and Cuban holdings
ance thatshey may have recorded

2D. <RePe was no record in those

£. Although
I checked their
on the remote
something on
files.

Ce.
g- is sence the chief of the CI Staff's

Administrative Office called the Office of Personnel
and received the word that there was no record on an
employee or an applicant for employment named Lee
Harvey OSWALD.

hh. I also checked the Office of Medical .“
Services and found no record on OSWALD.

 

 

i. The Covert Action Staff also found ng record
on him. a

  

 

j. Finally, I also checked t ecords: of: the
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group: (CT/oa). with
negative results.

   

k. My checks were completed on:4, Décember 1963
and I then sent a brief informal note’ to Mr. Rocca ~

 

fa

CONFIDENTIAL —

pepaoueriog ag

PRONITED aie

 
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

oe

a ( @OARIDENTIAL (

   

speci fying<allthe checks I had made and stating
that theresultsashowed that Lee Harvey OSWALD
had nexer had hyvyonnection whatsoever with the
Agen¢ys. Y a statement to this effect

i to the Warren Commission.

      

  

3 2, si acnecks regarding use or employment-
of O8 Dea peen requested by the foreign divisions ~
of their priate stations, I was told, and the a
results we negative. . :

4. I recall very clearly that we were extremely
concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an “American: returning
_ from the USSR, might. have been routinely ‘debriefed by
DCD, thus having established contact with the. Agency.
The same point has now, quite understandably, beén made
by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this
subject I have personally concluded that there is valid
. reason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time.
He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD —
had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before
1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners,
particularly by Americans, before that time was quite
uncommon and we were hungry for eyewitness information in
those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end
of that decade ees were so many persons travelling to
and from the Sow? mion that DCD was incapable of talk~
ing to all of #hems Therefore, a program of selectivity |
and specificctaryet pplicability was instituted. In ;
light of thBaBoves\: seems to me that OSWALD-- if he
came to re ‘S)atgentiyn at all--would have easily been i
. simply did not possess the type of
D was seeking at that time. DCD would
|
t

 

 

     
  

 
 
 

usedits limited manpower on travellers who
suet Gpaater access in the USSR.

. = hould be added that my above-described :
search in @ Agency file holding produced no record or |
indication that any other US Government agency had -used

him as a source or had considered him for recruitment.

CONFIDENTIAL

‘pepneouctiog =" ag
PROBED
