14-0000

 

«

   

«ge
-New Orleans.
Probe Figure;

In D.C. Area j

We United Press international

 

—
‘

onl)
(XY Gordon Navel, the “missing .
wilhess’ in New Oricans Dist:
Atty, Jim Garrison's investiga;
Aion of an alleged Kennedy |?
assassination conspirac yt
popped up in 8 Washington -
“suburb yesterday and took a lie ;:
‘detector. test on his charge that;
‘the Garrison investigalion.was a’;
“fraud.” {
The operator of the polygraph!
itest, Lloyd Furr of McLean, |;
Papeete wit
“Va. said Novel “passed” the He u
test. “He showed no decep-:
tions.” Fure said. \
“po yeu honestly believe

 

      

(Garrison's cons) jracy proseeu-
Furr said he

 

tenis a fraud
axked Novel eyes) he suid
Navel veptied
Navel oa farmer mightchob
operator, fefp New  Crleains
shortly before 4 grand yury |
-nvestigating the ASSHESIERLIOD >
» tried td subpoena him.
, aa New Orleans, Judge Mat-
thew Braniff has issued orders
far Novel to post @ S088) band
as a material witness or he
arrested as a fugitive. .
Novel's connection with the
Garrison investigation has never
heen precisely spelled aut

 

 
 

 
 

twericic. PAST, described as ‘ungerupulous ard untrust-
.orthy', is inown to have attempted to contract with another
orivnty Jetective for planting a remote-contrelled 1 omb tn the
headguarters of the Haith Secret lolica, and bas been reported
to have undertaken similar extreme assignments for exile
srouss from Haiti and the Dominicas Kepublic, (Eased on
Jeropatcry informetion on file, DCS, in March 1967, decided
ugainet previously contemplated contact with FAST aga
source of information on Asia. )

"M. and William W. TURNER of RAC PARTS

 

waif nas provided information that during January 1967,
-. 4, ‘KURNER, who identified himself as a free-lance

wisited the offices of the Asia Foundation, requesting

ation for a magazine article. lie stated that he had

itked Ly Sal Stern of New York to gather informstion for
tele in the New York Times ‘raring his visit, however,

 otvious thet TURNER. was priined to a3 questions

ne financing of the foundation, rather thin its actual

-suu g2 cetivities. When TURNER concluded the interview
“©, exHing card with the firs. name "RE X-PACIFIC".

- ead he had te have new cards printe!. TURNER,

‘“smissed from the Sflin !961, is noted to havo

W article im the Nover ber 1966 tanue of RAMPARTS

ch he deacribos alleged wiratapping, sur-

aot cule ys ctc., perfor:ned Ly hh while with the FRILL
aboterau, awh ihe cluimed to represent, ia aseistant

ua fday - itor eat RAN J, se ARTS ag azine.

 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

  

    
 
 
 
 

and BAST in ClA Meeting of Fxile

 

ritermted to detail the centret ef NOWIL
3 conacetion with PACT, ond a possi
“an flor 's orearization sad iA KEVART &.
: me inficates the only CLA invalyen-ent in the chain

i oti. exploited ta eubsecucat atts. -% to jink CIA
cic. 3 /fsir fn quection, }

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

  

 

orth Jiao, Holbert i. Owen them ties, WE/F and

Jivected @ beer:

 

 

Otandu:.. tu the Chiet,

 

fabacei,

   

we The

 

   
‘Hod t0106-10826)>

  

 

hee @

«
we

youl. Is Folygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.
RETURN TO CA

Background Use Only
Gercaun “rpvane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in tha t Reproduce
Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Vlashington prese of 27

starch 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the

case under invostigation by Garrison. According to the prese
reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination

conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lioyd FURR, In statements

te the press, FURR indiested there wae no indication of

Jecertion te NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a

‘fran.

 

whoyd 2 URR's Relationship to Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Liova FURR, a former District of Columbia policeman and now
a =rivate detective, is & self-proclaimed polygraph “expert”
and geund device specialist. He bas received publicity in the
past for plonting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr.
in the tt. “fary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he
chocovered Mstening devices teing used against Bernard Goldfine,
In 1964, inforviation was received that a Washington, BC.
five , TPES, operated by FURK end Richard iL. BAST, was
afte ing to sell electronic oquipment to Con:munist China via
fan Heag Hong. (TSD had unclassified contact with

2 in 1962 te see equipment offered for sale by FURR.)

 
 

Br 42

 

ome. :
% ACHAT d i Bf

 

Ricuara }. DAST, @ Washincton, D.C. private detective, gained
noteriety in 1965 ly turning up o missing witness, proviounly
uniocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with tho
Lobhy taher case. He is known to operate at least four
enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a
-atective agencys 2) KEDEX VIETNAM, INC., a firm
arts o varicty of commodities renging from liquor to
-jies into South Vietoam, including, of iste, U.S. -reeruited
cisls fer a Seigon nightclub he ta planning; 3) REDE?
_ og frm which sella almert anything to anybody abro. G
lon Sauth Vietnam; and 4) CONSCLIDATEL ARAM!
: Joa firs. which sells sinall arms to foreign govermmnent s aud
perivate encividuals abroad, GAST also produces and clotriluics
th ocaitive nucto and count: raudie cevices inthe U.S. en?’

 
  
   

vrdvnrteo

   

   

   

got
TAO0DD ee

is Ot ™ ; ‘ i ae eet , Cc

a oie]

“076 in wnich he decumented a comversation he had on

27 April 1°63, with Raymond CASS/.GNOL, an anti-Duvalier
eile fro ‘faiti, In the memorandunt he relates that the
conversation took place in the hame of Pichard lL. BAST
wher a-ea had met through a neighter, Lioyd FURR.

he cre oxrandum relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,
wottticat stance, cte. Reported as significant by Owen la &
ctrievent Ly AST that the following week BAST would be
sanding a ebipload of arms to a CASSAGNOL- -affiliated group
iathe Derminican Republic. Oven noted: “Raymond

i, gives appearance of thicking well of Richard
ILL. Aceording to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,
also .now2 NAST and respects him, Thus BAST, in spite of
cortain ,sreonal shortcomings from the intclligence standpoint,
dors represent an established channel to at least one segrnent
ofthe Lattin spposition to Duvalier. Since according to his

   

 

 

   

 

tens nt, HAST is eupplying arms to CASSAGNOL's
prov urther transactions of this type via BAST presumably
wold wb Le uifficutt to arrange." He also provided g detailed :
infor-cation on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had i

 

 

top-*) ned Dorcinican distrust of State and AID and the fact that i
“ cule-crossed them" (he Dominicans). :

 

     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  

An UDI report on PAST dated 19 June 1963 reports that Owen,

wy Sarvice Mecerve Officer, USDS" had

'4 May 1963 bis attendance at dinner at RAS ‘a home
Toprii l063. “sven told of his meeting with CASSAGHOL,
intention to sell arma to the Dominican Republic and
hlea, ete, ite also reports that on 7 May 1963, 14ST
ate perform some translation work. The trangintion,

: ustated to AST giving a power cf attorney ta one

“HID Martine: of the Deminican Republic to prepare
jon fer iegel ectablshment of RE DEA CORPORATION,
= Di branch of GDAST's irra, According to Gwen,

a stock was to Le held by the head of the OF Mational

2 ii Ageney, the head of the DR secret police, and an
~U]-connected with Doninican Revublic police end

ag. RAST is ales noted to have teld Owen

J had rade to "bug" the office of the Paminican i

 

 

 

 

4

\ a.
Vel) a
 

 

: of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan
“AGT did not indicate to Cwen ff had performed

 

(Where is no secord of a clearance having been issued for
utilization of Tkichard L, BAST or REDEX, }

 
