wa?

Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy. OGC, who was
handling Fentserwald's request, considered the first staff review
as inadequate and assigned a paralegal (assisted by a CI Stafet
officer) to do a more complete second review. At the same time,
each Directorate was asked to forward to OGC any documents jn
their files, which pertained to the Kennedy assassination. These
documents were included in the second review. i”

5. SEQUESTERED DOCUMENTS: By the time the Task Force had
completed its report in August 1977, the House of Representatives
passed a resolution setting up a Select Committee on
Assassinations. Later, the House decided to limit its
investigation of the assassinations of President Kennedy and Rev.
Martin Luther King, III. Members of the Task Force now became
involved in handling requests from the House Select Committee
(HSCA). The undersigned worked closely with HSCA staff-members
and with the Agency's Principal Coordinator, HSGA. When the HSCA
finished ita. report on 30 June 1979 (its report did not. come out
until later that year), the undersigned then moved to: the Ames
Building to join a group reviewing OSS documents for eventual
transfer to the National Archives.

6. By late 1981, the Agency had prepared its material gathered
for the HSCA, for placement in sequestered storage in the Agency's

 

 

Archives. The undersigned, though available, was not

 

 

asked €6 assist in this undertaking to ensure all pertinent DO

material had been included in the collection. | Boe ae

7. Later, after returning to Headquarters, at IMS‘s request to
work on the many of FOIA requests for Agency documents on the
Kennedy Assassinations, the undersigned recalled Oswald's 201
including the ancillary files mentioned above.

8. While preparing an inventory of these latter files, before

' returning them to IMS/Files, the undersigned discovered to his

dismay, that not all pertinent files had not been included in the
sequestered Collection in late 1981. Thirty-six of these
documents had been clearly prepared in responsé to spécific HSCA ~~
requests. The undersigned made a list of these documents to show
the History Staff‘s group reviewing the HSCA sequestered
collection. The documents include, for example

a. Response to HSCA Request 77-0076/4, n.d.
Subject: Tab C (Unsanitized), John ROSELLI
& Sam GIANCANA.

b. Response to HSCA Request 77-0084/1, 30 January
“1978. Subject: Evaluation of Information in
the Manuscript of Federal Prisoner Antulio
RAMIREZ-Ortiz.
104-10331-10003

 

08 April 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT : a. Ancillary Files e
Lee Harvey Oswald, 201-289248

: b. Sequestered Files
HSCA Collection

1. INTRODUCTION: In August 1976, Chief, CI Staff appointed the
undersigned as the Staff representative on a Task Force
established in response to DDCI‘s orders to the Deputy Inspector
General. The Task Force's purpose was to review Book Vv of the
“Church Committee" 's Final Report: Th vi ~of e
Assassina 1 of K

 

, and to formulate comments, based’ ‘upon an
in-depth study of information available in Agency files, on”
statements made and questions raised in Book V. Since CI Staff,
at that time. held Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file, the CI Staff
chief charged the undersigned with reviewing the file and
preparing papers on a series of topics drawn up by the Task Force
leader.

2. It quickly became evident to the undersigned that the
so-called 201 file on Lee Harvey Oswald was much more than what a
201 file should be. In addition to biographic information on
Oswald, the file included radio traffic between Headquarters and
the field on matters pertaining to Oswald, information on known
and possible contacts abroad and in the United States,
correspondence between the Agency and the Warren Committee, the
“Garrison Investigation", etc., as well as internal Warren
Commission documents containing Agency information. The file also
includes some 500 third-agency documents (primarily from the FBI
and the Department of State).

3. In order to get a handle on the welter of disparate material
in the Oswald file,-the -undersigned set up more than a few
individual files to hold photocopies of documents dealing with
such topics as Gilberto ALVARADO-Ugarte, Silvia DURAN, Waldemar
Boris KARA-PATNITSKY, Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV, etc. (See
attached inventory - Tab A.) The undersigned considers these
ancillary files, which include 9 folders from the former Special
Investigation Group of CI Staff, as an appendix to Oswald's 201
file. Its integrity should be maintained. [See paragraph 8.]

4. FIRST AND SECOND REVIEWS (October 1975 ~ c. February 1977):
For the first time, in October 1975, CI Staff reviewed Oswald's
201 file to ascertain which documents could be released to Bernard
Fensterwald who had requested all Agency documents on Lee Harvey
c. Response to HSCA Request 78- 1058/2, 09 March
1978. Subject: Items in Possession of Agency
before Opening Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.

d. Response to HSCA Request 78-2588/1, 15 August
1978. Subject: Comments regarding HTLINGUAL
Watchlist Cards.

e. Three volumes of (unsanitized) documents for
HSCA's use during Helms's appearance before the
Committee in executive hearing.

Volume I pages 0000151 - 0001873
Volume II pages 0001874 - 0002071,
Volume III pages 0002104 — 0003369

Annex pages 0003520 - 0003571
(Copy 8)  .

\ f. etc. [See attached inventory; Tab B.J] —~

9. The undersigned had prepared the remaining material. [see
paragraph 3 above] to provide background information, along with
supporting documents, to the 1976-1977 Task Force. Since this
material was available at the time of the HSCA review of Agency
documents pertaining to the assassination of President Kennedy, it
was shown to HSCA staff members either voluntarily or in response
to a verbal request to the undersigned. Each file contained a
“signature sheet" for the staff member to sign, thereby
acknowledging he had seen it. This material, in some thirty-five
folders, includes re TT

a. DENIED Documents from Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.
Contained in 5 vols., all reviewed.

RELEASED Documents from Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.
Four volumes of 16 reviewed by HSCA.

b. Comments and supporting documentation
regarding Ronald Kessler's article "CIA Withheld
Details of Oswald‘s Call”,
' The Washington Post, 26 November 1976. [NB:
Shown to Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel (before
.G. Robert Blakey), HSCA, 01 December 1976

c. CI/SIG (soft) File No. 568: HTLINGUAL material
and memoranda relating to Lee Harvey Oswald et
al (3 vols).

d. .Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City: Background
: for Task Force Report, 30 August 1977
e. Warren Commission: CIA memoranda addressed to
Warren Commission - 19 February to 29 October
1964. [See attached inventory, Tab C]

10. It should be emphasized at this point that most, if not all,
of the above files contain copies only of “original” documents
found elsewhere in official files to which the HSCA had access and
had reviewed.

11. PROPOSAL: In order to ensure that nothing is missing. from, or
out of sequence in, the sequestered collection, the undersigned
proposes that he or an assistant be granted access to at least the
34 boxes concerning information belonging to the Directorate, for
Operation so as to

a. Check the contents of each box against the
' inventory sheet contained in each boxand note
\ any discrepancies; : ” 34

b. Make copies of the “original" documents listed
in the inventory under Tab C and place the
“original" documents in one or more of the 34
boxes, if there is room - for not all boxes are
stuffed full. If there is insufficient room to
accommodate all the “original” material, then
the left-over material will have to be placed in
extra boxes ~ not more than four

c. I£ documents or folders are put in one of the 34
boxes, the subject and the number of the folder
will be added to the existing inventory sheet;
the folder number will follow the highest folder
number on the inventory sheet.

Russell B. Holmes
Consultant
