CON IDENT TAL.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

_ In Reply, Please Refer to ; os WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535
File No. ‘ 7
June 15, 1965

DEMONSTRATIONS FROTESTING UNITED STATES iNTER~
VENTION 1 IN. VIETNAM. AND THE DOMINICAN. REPUBLIC

i
The Communist Party and other organizations are
continuing their efforts to force the United States to change
its present policies toward Vietnam and the Dominican Republic.
There is sét forth below a summary of current and planned ©

future activity through which they hope to accomplish this
end,

“gpeak-Out" . a

Millan Shddaantitindhndll ey Sa. . : \
wt _
It was previously raférted that. ne comtios tet

Nonviolent. Action,-a pacdfist’groiip, is sponsoving a ‘speakLout"
on June 16, 1965, "at the Pentagon, Washington, D. C. During
this demonstration participants will make speeches from the
Pentagon steps; distribute leaflets; and demand an opportunity -
to discuss Vietnam and the Dominican Republic with Pentagon ; a
officiais, i Be

ie
jal Hayworth, sxecutive Secretary, Committee for © , i
Nonviole tion, Washington, D. C., has stated the denonstration i

will staxt in‘the. park at the Pentagon with the hope that arrests
of the demonstrators will result. If this phase of the demon.
‘stration produces no arrests, the demonstrators will move to

the steps of the Péntagon and engage in civil disobedience to
provoke arrests, On June 12, 1965, an announcement was made at -
the national convention of the Students for a Democratic Society,
a socialist-oriented youth group, at Kewadin, Michigan, that

the Student Nonviolent_Coordinating-Committee planned to
demonStrate..at—the~Pentagon. and.at.Central | intelligence Agency
Head uarters_on_June_16,—1965,-as.a.protest against_ ; United | States
javolvement in. Vietnam, Hayworth has stated helas” rejected”

of fé¥s° by the Women's Strike for Peace and the Student Peace
Union to join this demonstration as it will be a 1 Committee for
Nonviolent Action effort only.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON {; lag 9 CONF IDENT IAL

 

 

O RELEASE IN FULL . : GROUP 1 : ks
£ tic
OQ RELEASE IN PART Jexeluded from automatic

downgrading and
TOTAL DENIAL th) declassification

 
 

 

‘Toat0as-1018d

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

209708
74-00000

  

 

CONFIDENTIAL

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES INTER- ae
VENTION. IN. VIETNAM. AND .THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

te . i
"peace .Conference" \

Mary| Clarke, ~~ former Communist Party member
and the present Southern California representative of the

 

t it was "a marvelous idea." According to Clarke, —\j.

prominent pacifist, have been/.~

_ if, Jr. > and Dagmar Wils
. Gentatively selected toattend the Conference.

» Upon the delegates’ return to the United States, they
plan to arrange a press conference concerning the meeting.
‘The press tonference would include Congressman Brown and
Congresswoman Edith Green. \ . :

. , ‘ no

Washington Action Caravan

  

‘Thé Viethan “Day Committee, Berkeley, California, . °°:
which has been active in -frotesting United States policy toward ~
Vietnam and the Dominican Republic, is assisting .in planning

a Washington Action Caravan as a further protest against

United States intervention in Vietnam and the Dominican Republic.
Under this plan motorized caravans will leave the San Francisco,
California, area in mid-July, 1965, and travel to Washington, D. Cc.
In selected communities en route, the caravan will hold protest
demonstrations to build public opposition to our foreign policy.

It is hoped by the Committee that similar caravans will be
organized in other parts of the United States, All caravans

will congregate in Washington, D. C., in early September where
mass protest action will occur. Present plans include blocking
traffic, staging .sit~ins in Government buildings and obstructing

entrances to military buildings,

CONF IDENTIAL \ ‘

-2—

 

9 \/ ;
a .fdéxmer Communist Party nember ; (lcs) Martin Luther |
74-0000

AO
a
CONFIDENTIAL
DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES INTER~ .
‘VENTION TN. VIETNAM. ANDTHE DOMINICAN. REPUBLIC
. WG st sss
“Other Activity , oe
On June 12,.1965, the Committee for Nonviolent
Action sponsored a demonstration at Times Square, New York City.
Approximately 18 individuals participated in the demonstration
and carried placards asking for an end to the war in Vietnam,
tite thtercUnlversity Committee for a Public Hearing
vie Moor Michigah, which Sponsored the receiit

 

national teach<in at fashington, D. C., is continuing its
attempt to arrange a national,television debate on Vietnam

and the Dominican Republic with Yin. McGeorge Bundy, Special ;
Assistant to the President. Upoh leartiing. that Mr. Bundy has- ©
been invited to appear on the “American Broadcasting Company
television program "Issues and “Answers, a representative of
the Committee contacted the American Broadcasting Company in

an attempt to*have member's of the Committee invited to appear

on the same program, The American ‘Broadcasting Company was
agreeable provided such an arrangement had Mr. Bundy*¢ approval
and if the Conmittee furnished a list of participants and

full details of how the program will be conducted. As yet no
arrangements have been made concerning this proposed television
debate, ‘ ;

 

thé Emer rgency Council on\the Crisis of fmer ica
sponsored a public mééting = wt-Santal Motiica, a, California, on Y
June 12, 1965, to express opposition to United States policy
in Vietnam, Senator Wayne Morse, the principal speaker, spoke
for approximately 45 minutes. He criticized our present policy
in Vietnam and said that it was impossible for the United States
to win even though we may win some individual battles. He.
contended that United States foreign policy belongs to the
American people and not to the President. Approximately
2,500 people were present at the meeting and receipts totaled i
above sil, ooo. . :

 

CONF IDENTIAL
eg

 
