74-0000

 

 

Dear >

The Agency's records indicate that you have been
contacted by representatives of the House Select Committee
on Assassinations (HSCA) in conjunction with the Committee's
investigation into the deaths of President John F. Kennedy
and the Rev. Martin Luther King. -

As part of the Agency's effort to be fully responsive
to the Committee's investigation, you were authorized to
disclose classified information to Committee representatives.
This was possible “because of arrangements worked out between
the Agency and the Comnittee whereby the Committee would
obtain this information in secure surroundings and handle it
properly once it was acquired.

The Committee has indicated that it plans to hold public
hearings in conjunction with its investigation. These hearings
are to commence this month and stretch over the next several
months. The Agency, of course, has -no way of knowing whether
you will be called to appear during these public hearings.

You are hereby advised that the Agency's agreement with
the Committee under which you have been authorized to disclose
classified information to Committee representatives does not
extend to public circumstances. Consequently, you are not.
authorized to disclose classified information during any public
hearing in which you may be called to appear. 6

If you are called to appear in these hearings, and if you
are asked a question which would require that you disclose
Classified information, you are entitled to point out this fact
to the Committee and indicate that you are not authorized to
reveal classified information in public circumstances. You
should also indicate to the Committee that you are quite -
prepared to answer the question in an executive session, and
you may request that the Committee convene such a session to
hear your response.

If the Committee Were to insist upon your testimony at this
point, you are entitled to request that the Committee grant you
an opportunity to confer with the Director of Central..Intelligence
before answering the question.

 
74-0000

 

It is my opinion that the Committee would not continue
to insist in the face of these responses from you. However,
were it to do so, you must at this point use your own judgment
as to how to respond, since your continuing réfusal to answer
could result in your being found in contempt of Congress.

If you are notified that you are to appear before the
Committee in these public hearings, please notify the Agency
of this fact promptly. You may do so by making a collect
telephone call to the Agency's security duty officer, who
can be reached at (703) 351-6161 at any time, day or night.
If you have any questions concerning this letter, please
indicate that fact to the duty officer, who will arrange for

an appropriate Agency offficer to return your call.

st Yours truly,

athe
 

 

hearings: or in opposing their conduct because |

of absence of adequate means for protecting»

sensitive subject matter.

 
74-00000

 

Iv. In the absence of agreement with the HSCA on-how
sensitive matters are to be handled in its public \
hearings, the Agency may face the dilemma of how to .
a protect intelligence sources and methods. °
« Current employees could find themselves
faced with the dilemma of abiding by their
secrecy oath and requesting to be excused
fromtestifying, but having to choose
between a contempt citation and violation.
of the secrecy oath.
e Against the possibility that HSCA does not
undertake to work with us on this problem,
we may have to give notice to the employees
of the problem, A draft letter has been
™ prepared (copy attached) for forwarding to
pregent ‘and current employees who have been
interviewed by the HSCA. Its limitations are
apparent, in that it serves primarily to _
apprise the employee of his or her dilemma.
« OGC will request further advice from the
Attorney General.
Vv. Should the most pessimistic development come to pass,

the situation will be more political than legal. The

er
alnatne

fact is that time is of the essence, and any stretch-out
will reduce the time in which the Agency can react with

considered judgments, either in cooperating in. the public
tof

 
74-00000

 

and (2) CIA must have suppressed it. *
Practically all the above CIA reporting —°
on Mexico City involves classically sourtes<
and-methods material. .
Nosenko

Yuri Nosenko was a KGB officer who defected
in early 1964. Among the items of information

Tame.

that he asserted he brought with him was knowledge
~'%

about Lee Harvey Oswald, from his file in the

’ KGB.

The bona fides of Nosenko's defection was the
subject of doubts and he was subjected to
extensive interrogation. He was in the custody
of CIA for some five years, under laws concerning
such persons, some three years of which was in
solitary confinement under what the Rockefeller

. By

Commission termed "extremely spartan living

conditions."

- Eventually Nosenko was judged to be a bona fide

defector. He has proven to be the source of a
wide range of information on many hundreds of
KGB officers, and KGB operations abroad, as well
as about the KGB. Over the years his*information
has been responsible for a number of successful

counterintelligence initiatives by either the

 
74-0000

 

U.S. or its allies.

eo. The recent book about Oswald, Legend, by :
Epstein, has dramatized Nosenko's defection,
repeating the early doubts about him and
leaving the strong implication that he is
still to be doubted. Recently the HSCA
investigators scem to have shifted the
emphasis of their inquiry from this issue
to how Nosenko was handled; this judgment
may be in error and the issue of his bona
fides may return during the hearings.

eo. CIA did mistreat Nosenko. He was kept in
solitary confinement, he was given a
minimum diet, he was allowed few comforts, |
and he was subjected to intensive interrogation
for extended periods of time. He ‘believes |
that he was subjected to drugs, but there’ is
no record that such was the case; those who
were involved say he was never subjected to
drugs, although it was considered once and
rejected.

o. The question of the bona fides of Nosenko's
defection could involve inatters that pave
sensitive connotations; however, -a decision
to emphasize only his mistreatment would be

only embarrassing to the Agency.

 
74-00000

 

 

HISCA Hearings

I. The HSCA has scheduled public hearings for August,
September, and November.

6. The King hearings are 14-18 August, and 9,
10, 13-17, 20, 21, 22, 25-29 November. It
appears’ that CIA is unlikely to feature in
in these hearings, although this is only an
impression.

6. The Kennedy hearings arc to be on weck days,
6-29 September. CIA doubtless will share the
stage with the FBI.

II. We have requested the HSCA Staff for information on the
plans for the hearings, with special attention to the
security cénsiderations, (orally on 29 June and 13 July,
and in writing from the DDCI on 26 July and 4 August).
To date what we know about plans was acquired from The

Congressional Monitor.

 

e. It has been the practice of the HSCA Staff to
avoid dialogues, the effect of which is to conceal
much of what they are doing or thinking. The

resulting frustrations of trying to cooperate with

yes.
the ‘investigation are not important; inevitably we

3.
3.

hg
12> POET Ch ww l2H1@.

  
[toa t01a7-10141

 

S August 1978

OL fd l

 

   

 

Summary Points on HSCA Hearings

The ESCA has scheduled hearings on the assassination
of President Kennedy for weekdays, 6 - 29 September.
Preliminary hearings on the assassination of Martin
Luther King are to be 14 - 18 August and November.
Areas &¥ apparent emphasis appear to be. CIA coverage
in Mexico City, and issues arising from the questions
of Nosenko's bona fides. On the Nosenko matter,
CIA's treatment of Nosenko is also under scrutiny.
The Mexico City story is essentially, in terms. of
Agency coverage, one of sources-and-methods. Aspects
of the Nosenko story also involve sensitive matters.
Recent handling of restricted Agency material (press
release), without checking with the Agency, may
indicate lack of concern about sensitive matters.
HSCA has failed, despite repeated requests, to discuss
with the Agency how to handle sensitive matters in
public hearings.

Agency employees called to testify may be faced with
the dilemma. of violating their secrecy 6ath or risk-
ing a contempt citation, ” tthe

The matter tends to become political, in addition to

whatever legal questions there are.

2/1870

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

 
74-0000

 

are provided partial insights into areas’ oo
of interest, if not the details. The
significance of the tactic, however, grows”

as public hearings approach, involving as

they do’ subject matter that we view as

having considerable sensitivity and importance
to CIA. .

III. We obvioustty do not know all the lines of inquiry pursued
by HSCA investigators. They have undertaken to reconstruct
as much as possible about Oswald and the assassination of
President Kennedy. They also are attempting to develop
an evaluation of the performance of the intelligence

agencies in the investigation. Two areas of special

 

ot

interest have become evident, both of which involve

sensitive operational considerations:

+ #2

Mexico City
®. Mexico City is considered one of the nost “important
bases for Soviet clandestine operations against
the United States. As a result Soviet and Cuban

diplomatic installations have long been the subject

 

of CIA surveillance operations,

 

 

 

 

 

®. Telephone and photographic coverage of the Soviet

installations is carried on, as well as physical

fz
74-00000

 

surveillance.’ The Mexican authorities

 

 

 

 

They are aware

 

 

 

of the fact of photographic surveillance.
®. Because of the telephonic coverage CIA was”

able to provide the initial firm evidence»

on™Oswald's contacts with Cuban and Soviet .

officials, in his attempt to obtain visas

 

to Cuba and the USSR. CIA, limited in not
being able to conduct a traditional police-
‘type investigation, was able to suggest to
the Mexican authorities that they interview

at least one person known to have dealt with

 

Oswald during his visit. However, gaps remain
iniwhat is known about his visit. This has
attracted HSCA attention... es

e. The reported questioning of some HSCA investigators
has on occasion appeared to be developing a basis
for criticizing CIA's performance in its part
of the investigation in Mexico City, under its
charter to evaluate the performance of the

é .

intelligence agencies. At one time, and possibly

still, they appeared to be attempting ‘to develop

a case to the effect that (1) there was photography,

 
