74-0000

 

 

 

  
   
    
   
   
    
     
      
        
           
       
       
   
     
       
      
      
 

\ -2- :
; . i a
BD. mghould bo examined together with all the other i 3
: available reports go that we may . ;
(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
reapect to a1] the AMLASH group (aad tris incluces
AMWEIP); : Oo
(2) wort out which people, if any, are worth our
time in the futurc; coe ,

 

@) take appropriate measures, including inter-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and
oe : then, when necessary, terwinate thoee who ere

ee : working for us but are not worthwhile;

4) tighten up our own operational and gecurity
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

 

wool: 8. Preliminary Analysis: As pointed. out :in-a- preliminary ~
- Q@mblysis o: r complex, made in March 1968 when I was _ 1
preparing for travel to(adrid)in connection with the QUHOPS-i
cages “...There is no convincing evidence Shat the group ia
working either for or against the regine ‘of Fidel CASTRO.
Reports on their contacts with us and their discugsions among
‘ themselves are at variance. In 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly
_ ‘/keowdag that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH-1
. @nd seven menkerg of bis group to wnligt their support against. —
, Anibal ESCALANTE Deliunde and the communists in Cuba, Pogsibly |
“+ they are playieg both cnds against the middle. they certainly
Baye been and are in contact with the-two ends." -The following. -
Comments Gre keyed to matters raisea by ESPINOSA: “

 

 
  

 

 

wee

boar man ft? The AMLASH conspiracy - Ag detailed by HADR?3716
(AN 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-1 Feporting on a meeting :
of the AHLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the following
Gignificant points: 7

oe (1) XUBARE was eriticized for "fooling around for
P. yeare” without aelping and Zor jeopardising the operation;

  

7 (2). ths group was to-be pregared to denaunce

: GDYOKE as raspommible if the operation faiis and believed that
- the resulting scandwl would make tha Bay of Pige seem ineigui-
“, Sieant; and BR oe

; (3) AMLASH-3 wae in touch with Cuban Intelligence
. €8 established by coded asssages which ae exhibited. .

- Aa reported by(PART}1532 (1% 82930) on.4 June 1965, based on
. Seetings with EEPINOGA, the problem geen by Parise io that

BSc

asf .

  
      
 
  

  

 
      
 

10263-10077

»

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WHD for Cube

+ G.- affect the repitstioiie and tne “@ecurity of our
\, personne) at/MadrigJand ise

. eoncerned with’ the”

.. able. Two of the charges - about Earle and “Tota

 

 
     
  

3 Eepinosa Alicgations

Sensitivity: Regardless of. accuracy,. they

&. present @ problem because of their having been
Bresented to other governzent agencies;

      
       
 

-B. in view of matters touching on U.8. security,
are delicate and could nave unfavorable repercussions
42 repeated to newanen by the complainant or his
Gsacciates (whose independent , previous threats were
Of: greater. potential embarrasenent );

 
 
 
     
   
   
 
 
 

eer eerste

 
 
 

     
  

Action: “In view of tis foregoing; the allegations
@.

  
    

a ee

 
  

ers officers
ose menbers'
reliability, reputations and good faith are question-

   

   
 
  

@ad about AMWHIP-1) and CARRILLO - are new.);

 
    
 

_B. should be treated so as to protect us QgQinet any |
charge of laxity and so as to eetablieh the facts but, |.

@t the same time, treated so as to avoid attributing lo
to them more importance tuan they deserve; : as

  
      
     
    
   
 
 

‘€. whould be kept in ming Qs examples of other ....
charges which may be tandied about and reported by. the

. group to other governmental @gencies or te
Other governments or to news media. (in tas. inst
connection recall the implied threat of Publishing:

ODYOKE regpon@ibility, ag reported P¥Yeviousiy by
QWADB33716,1N 38634.)} :

 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

   
        
 
     
 
74-0000

 

wide and each new frlend of whom w
Sees to have krowiss i :

I believe: that the
serious and basic one

; - AB indicated in.
Present memorandum, Fidel 4

   
   
   

tion. Assansination,
obviously, iga dangerous game, not merely to the Plotters in
@ physical sense, but to a

ch may
Suffer Severe political repercussions. at.home and ’
davolvement i; made Known.

* Considering the individ

." the plan could
ing to KUBARK,- (This is even more the cage
Bow that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY- and ODURGE, although
& complaint was that KORARK had not
given adequate Support to the plan;) . ,

gy @ubject of an exchange of

uarters between H/C and w e
PA. 1071 (In 66557) and DIE- °.. The. Gnnoying thing in’ “>
this connection now 16 that ESPINOSA has talked-about it to
9) @nd ODURGE and the danger that, if he is indiecreet, .
his story about this (and the other matters) could reach some ..
curious newspapernan. (in thie Connection, 1¢ appa:
~ “® Q'estionable deci @ in touch with the AMLASH

“STOUp Tks made without the knovle

TER eT OOD. ) 3PINOSA
id not reporz any critician of Bae Rye
te evident that the

 
 
 
     
  
  

which he has visited often,
*trtp tod Madrid \on the QuHOopg..3
ts about ‘the whole group and Specifically
@nd his conne=¢ion With UNSNAFU-19.) At isaue are
Belate, tha knowledge on

the. pars of UNSHA Py.
Sonnection With AUWHIP-1 end the chargo that A
i KUBARK in the Jewelry

transaction,
the fact that OpENvy ha

  

@ learn.

; - rhe contacts at Paris and the, ‘matters affecting
‘the (Paris Station - The

 

 
  
  
  
   
      
   
  
 
  
   
       
74-0000

mea et, Criticiom of the(Gadrid\station - Criticism of
the Madrid’ Station by the AMLASH GFOup t@ not new, AMIASH.2 -
and -3 were in(kadridjand wanted direct contact, but the

Station has had reservations about seeing them. The Station has

i
ij
[
3
| been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources —
| about and involvement of Station targets with both the AMLASH -.
} @nd ANWORLD operations (both handled from Headquarters). _
jaene— . (Beo( MADD 2982 (IN 72258) and(KADR32998 (IN 73084) (both RYBAT).} .
J Meetings ancng QUEPORT, QUBWIFT-1, AM@HIP-} and AMLASH figurea
| Toduced conflicting reports which previously vere dincussed at
diagridveua at Headquarters. Ipsofar as GROJERY himself is
concerned, it must be kept in mind that he ia a natural target:
©R whom the AMLASH group would be inclined to fecus ite com- {
‘rae: Plaints. wien regard to the specific complaint aboug “Tota”, |
GHOWRRY hag identified her as QUSUIFT-7 and bas reported that |
Go staffer froe the Statioa ever bad contact with her. | ;
i

 
    
   

ot nD ee

 

Lo 4. Vurther tavolvonent of BSPINOGA:. On.10-June ODENVY

- eetified at Now Yor -a had telephoned
; BSPINOSA to asx whether-he had WuccEeded in’ ¢

iw people" - i.¢., yeuponsible KUBARK representatives and:
@ wequest notice of the reoulting arrangenents. . |

mo S. AMHIP.1; our plan calle for meeting bis next week
te obtain BRY ing is F :!

 
 

i

 
 
        
 
 

wo . HAG dealings with UNSNAFU-19 alco > ,
this, an LCFLUITER examination is Planned. This my help. to
determine whether he hag been truthful ia hig reporting.

  
      
  
 
 

 
 

Harold F. Swenson
WE/C/SP

    
  

“EVES ONLY
SECRET

    
