74-0000

 

(SECRET ©

dated January 1961 indicates that the equipment was in
operation as of that time as two Office of. Security employees
were dispatched to Miami, Florida, to repair certaia audic
equipment which was malfunctioning.

5. Subject's files do not reflect the results of any
tape recordings made through the above installation although
the file does indicate that any such product would have been
given to WH Division representatives. Subject appears to. have
remained of interest to the WH Division and to the DCI until
as late as 1964.
 

(ocr * SECRER

30 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: William Douglas Pawley
SF#078 435

1. Subject, a U.S. citizen and former U.S. Ambassador
to two Latin American countries, was of interest to the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency circa 1952-1954,
apparently in connection with Agency operational requirements.
In 1959 Subject again became of operational interest to the
Western Hemisphere Division in connection with the Agency's
activities directed against Cuba. At that time Subject was
an executive with a private corporation in Miami, Florida. |
Subject was granted a Covert Security Approval in connection
with WH Division's interest circa December 1959.

. 2. On 7 Ogtober 1959 the Chief, WH Division requested
\ . the Office of Security to install an audio mike and wire
device in Subject's Miami office for the purpose of "making
available to WH Division representatives in Miami detailed
reports of conversations held by (Subject) with his numerous
contacts among Caribbean revolutionary groups, especially
anti-Castro Cuban exile leaders." Cited request from the
Chief, WH Division indicated that Subject is a personal
friend of the then DCI-and that he had cooperated with the
Agency in the past. Subject's file also indicates that the
then DCI was made aware of the planned audio installation.

 

3. Subject's file specifically states that the audio
mike and wire was to be installed in Subject's office desk
in such a manner that Subject could activate the recording :
device while talking to foreign nationals. The file reflects”
that Subject was not only witting of the mike and wire instai-
lation but was in complete control of the audio equipment.

4.- Cited mike and wire installation was made on 15 Octo-.
ber 1959 by employees of an Office of Security field office.
Subject's file does not reflect when, or if, the audio equip-
ment was removed from Subject's office. However, a report -

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 062258

SECRET,
74-00000

a

ae SECRET

IDENTITY LIST

SF#078 435

1. Western Hemisphere Division requesting officer: J. C.
King, Chief, WH Division ;

2. Office of Security assigning officer: Jack Bauman

3. Office of Security employee who installed device: John B..
Cryer : :

4. WH Division responsible officer: | TT.

3

 

5. Director of Central Intelligence at that time: Allen
Dulles ;

 
