Y- seepeT

Cindy Cooper's notes and those of John Hornbeck. I said

that in the latter instance Hornbeck had copied extensively
from the unsanitized version of the 1977 Task Force Report,
emphasizing the portions already deleted from the sanitized
version; I had said he would have to do a summary. That
could have been avoided by exercise of discretion. Goldsmith
asked that we check the system for sanitizing.

19. We got on the Mexico City affair again. I said that
Cornwell had been told that we would not help him with agents.
He said that he understood that agents could be brought out
(in fact, I was at a meeting at which his insistence made
it clear that this was not the case, per my M/R of that
meeting). He said there was another meeting at which Bill
Sturbitts had agreed to a list, which I said I knew about,
but that this was not the point. Blakey said we shouldn't
argue over whether I was at a meeting or what was discussed
when. I said that Mexico cabled quoting Cornwell as saying
that access to agents had been agreed by Headquarters, which
was not so. Cornwell said I should review the cable, as
it didn't say that (it does}. In essence, Cornwell may
conclude that he was the object of our trip to Mexico: there
is disagreement over what he was told here and what he said
there, and we went down and found that a witness had been
loaded with misinformation as a basis for statements then
elicited (which led to our being able to correct the facts
on an issue they had obscured from us under their practice
of arms-length business). While it can't make Cornwell
any happier with his relations with us, it may prove salutary
overall.

\ .
anh SD. Bow be
S. DB. Breckinridge
Attachment ;

Distribution:

Orig - OLC Subject

1 - O/DDCI (H. Smith)

~ DDO
~ C/SE Division
- C/CI Staff
- DDA
- D/Security
c/PCS/LOC
- Mr. Shepanek (PCS/LOC)
~ Mr. Holmes (CI Staff)
- C/LA Division
-~ Mr. Rininger (OGC)
- Mr. Clark (DDS&T)
- OLC Chrono

ey

Fe et pet et fed pt
t
 

APPROVED FOR RELERSE1993 en

CIAHISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM ie 20 OCL-78-2469

 

 

 

 

‘UNCLASSIFIED

This is to-record an. understanding about-handling certain
.: specific classified-materials relating to two subjects of
... interest to the HSCA.in.its. investigation; the subjects relate
' to defectors and certain subject matter in an agreed foreign
J. ,country....The materials consist of CIA documents and - so
.. Materials (now held. in. CIA: facilities located.in’ the. HSCA. -
area mentioned below), materials derived from CIA documents
but involving HSCA analysis, and HSCA-generated materials
consisting of notes of interviews, depositions and/or
transcripts of hearings.

The CIA will provide and install a two-combination safe
- in the special area provided for it in HSCA quarters (herein
~.c referred to.as the "beachhead"}. -HSCA security officers will
=. set the combination of one of the.two locks, and CIA security
:.officers will set the other, each combination to be held
exclusively by the representatives of the respective
organizations.

The two-combination safe will be used to store only
materials relating to the two above subjects. Access to the
“materials in the two-combination safe will be controlled by
-....CIA.security officers, according. to a list of approved
>. personnel agreed between HSCA and CIA:: .Use of. the. materials
~s:will' be‘ limited to the -room.in which. the :safe ‘is. located
‘in the HSCA.-area. 7 : - :

~ 3° Upen conclusion of the investigation.the materials
-... Will be handled as follows:

1. <All CIA materials will be:-returned to CIA.
2. All materials not generated by HSCA hearings, or
- depositions or formal interviews, but including
information derived from CIA documents and
materials will be returned to .CIA. ~
3. All notes of formal HSCA interviews, depositions and
: transcripts of hearings, will be delivered by |
So, .. ... HSCA to HPSCI for retention.
~,., 4. The safe will be returned to CIA.

‘This understanding is in addition to and separate from
another agreement of operation of that aspect of the CIA :
. beachhead -for support of interviews, deposition and/or

*. hearings of. the.Committee and its staff, which.is recorded

’ inva separate document.

- ~ “UNCLASSIFIED
SECRET

deterioration in relationships. He observed that it had
been from 1 June to 28 June on the priority requests,
with no results. I said that our move and a new reporting
system had delayed advising HSCA of results, which was
not acceptable to him. He felt that it would be useful
to have a common document showing status of reports, to
which I demurred; I said that if we took time out to work
on yet another log system (having just gotten one started
for ouselves) we would further delay things. I wanted to
work out the paper and then would be happy to give time
and attention to a joint evaluation of where things. stand.
As he envisioned it, it would record date of request,

date of completion and date of review.

15. Mr. Blakey said there is a sense of outrage in
the Committee over the Mexico incident. It is a "cancer."
He felt that third party solution was viable and reasonable.
The key to this statement is the point that he was speaking
of Committee members, per se, and not just staff members.

16. As I had described the Calvillo problem, he said
then we should have no problem in their confronting
Calvillo. He wasn't an agent of ours and our sensitivity
could be met by not raising the activity in question. (At
a meeting: Thursday afternoon, he said he would agree to not
discuss possible CIA relations. His interest is Calvillo's
reported interrogation of Elena Garro de Paz following
the assassination of President Kennedy).

17. Blakey expressed some concern, not detailed, about
the Office of Security standards being extended to other
paper. He reads the agreement to the effect that we seal
off only polygraph and background investigation material
in Security files on Agency personnel but not on other files
such as DDO. We merely observed that there may be sensi-
tive matters, e.g., the identity of a live Soviet operation;
files have to be reviewed in such instances, but they have
the right to question the basis of it. We said we will
inquire further into the procedures being followed, for

-we did not understand that anything other than this is

being done.

18. Blakey described the problems of sanitizing notes.
I had undertaken to see if notes (as distinguished from
summaries) could be summarized; if so we would sanitize
them rather than requiring summaries. Blakey mentioned

roy
74-00000

i

SECRET

has to do with a Mexican named Calvillo. I said we did not
know they intended to interview him in Mexico City, and it
was some time before we knew there had been an issue there.
There was some back-and-forth between Cornwell and me about
what he told us and what we agreed to (part of which was
his being told we wouldn't help him with agents, and his
telling the station we had agreed to do so). In any

event, I said Calvillo was an unwitting co-optee, a man
who did not know that he ever had done anything for us.

We simply had arranged for some Cubans in Miami to hire
him--a journalist--to interview refugees and write stories
on it. Blakey said their interest is apparent, Calvillo
having interrogated Elena Garo de Paz following the assasi-
nation of President Kennedy. No decisions were taken, with
my simply tablingthe problem to be worked out.

p)

12. I said that Casasin)}was another problem. The
man had worked for us ea
He had left the Agency and now works in[a UN organization}.
He had run an agent into the USSR, that man having met d
Russian girl and eventually marrying her. Our assumption
is that the interest in the man is that the agent was
successful in getting his Russian wife out of the country,
as Oswald was in getting Marina_ouf. We have no problem
in arranging an interview with (Casasin, but the name of
the agent we do not wish to reveal, for reasons outlined
at the meeting. I noted that Casasin (which is a pseudo-
nym) was also a chief of one of the Sections during
the time period of interest to them and this might make
him additionally interesting to them, as they had requested
the people for that period. Goldsmith said they, are not
interested in the identity or any aspects of (Casasin"
agent or his Russian wife, which I said resolved that
aspect of the matter (we can simply instruct (Casa inj to
not divulge the agent's name, etc., should thére be some
slip in this understanding, and make [Casasiny available for
interview). However, no action was taken’aft the meeting.

 

 

 

13. Mr. Blakey described the physical problem growing
out of the failure to resolve the question of the beach-
head issue. There are some six-eight depositions and
three-four hearings. Transcripts, typewriter tapes and
notes are held in the two-drawer safe. We observed that
once the transcripts have been corrected and verified
there is no practical reason for keeping either the type-
writer tapes or steno notes. .They agreed to check on this.

14. Mr. Blakey stated that he felt there was a steady
in arriving on the scene was the atmosphere. I had given it
considerable study, and felt that there was at least a
problem of communications. I stated that it is clear to

me that we say things to one another that are not heard or
understood,

8. I undertook to tell them one thing I had done to
plumb the matter. I said that I knew they tested hypotheses,
and I had done the same thing. My experience was that there
is a temptation on the part of some congressional staff
investigators to plant versions of things in the minds of
witnesses and then extract answers on the basis of that. I
cited the Schweiker Report as containing some examples, as
addressed directly in the 1977 CIA Task Force study on the
Schweiker report. I said that as soon as they finished in
Mexico City I went there and interviewed the three_ former
emplo g s they saw: Zamb&fnardil, [Flick] and Watson{ I
said{F ick! wasn't very helpful “(we had only about a half

hour with him prior to leaving for Cuernavaca), but that
‘CLamb8tnardi' s] description of his interviewwas interesting.
fter having said that he didn't recall what photographic
coverage there was of the Cuban Consulate, at what time,
he was told that there was photographic coverage on
27 September, when Oswald is believed to have visited the
Consulate twice that day. His response was that if there
was a pulse camera there at that time, and it was operating
properly, there should have been a picture of Oswald if he
entered that door. JI said research since my return
disclosed the following: the Cuban Consulate entrance
had been closed for about two years preceding September
1963; when it reopened there were plans to install photo-
graphic coverage on 26 September; a later report showed
that technicians were at the safehouse installing new
equipment on Friday, 27 September, to provide coverage
of the Consulate and that they experienced problems with
that new equipment on that date; that it was planned to
have four days testing; that records indicate coverage
commencing in October 1963; and later reporting showed
installation of a pulse camera in December 1963. I stated
that some of these documents were in files seen by HSCA
staff members on 26 May. Others turned up as a result
of our inquiries would be made available additionally.
Blakey said that Ann Goodpasture had said there was
coverage on 27 September; I replied that the documents
we saw indicated there was not. Goldsmith said he
personally would review the materials.

 

 
SECRE

9. I said that I attributed this to communications.
It was HSCA practice to not communicate with us, a result
of which has been to blind themselves in part. Their
report inevitably would suffer in the end. We can help
them, and can provide insights to. a culture that they
should realize is strange to them. Nuances with basic
substantive significance are lost to them. I noted that
their reading a less technical file--Oswald's personality
file from Mexico City--had made it possible for them to og
correct a mistaken memory by the former DCOS/Stanley Watson}.
Watson had recalled seeing Oswald's file witha photo of
Oswald entering the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, as well
as a four-or-five-line extract from a telephone conversa-

tion. They had persuaded him that he had not seen a

photograph of Oswald. I had checked on return to .
Headquarters and found that they had reviewed the Mexico City
file on Oswald, which contained a picture of what we refer
to as the "unidentified man" and not Oswald. I said that
distrust of the Agency was implicit in their approach to
things (and that they should understand that we are not
cloned from one figure making up one gigantic conspiracy)
and that this contributes to the communications gap. I
said I had been participating in inspections for some fif-
teen years, running individual inquiries much of that time
and directing a program for some five years. The biggest
problem is to avoid the "avenging angel" approach and to
realize that the investigator does not speak from Mount
Olympus--my written instructions to inspectors so stated.
Objectivity takes a lot, and its absence will affect rela-
tions.

10. I stated that arrangements had been made to obtain
U-2 clearances for Messrs Blakey, Cornwell, Klein and
Ms. Smith. Some 1,200 linear feet of files were there.
By limiting the time period it could be reduced, and to
help them it would be useful to read a history, and to
see some special studies of Soviet reactions to U-2
flights (it would show they knew perhaps more aeehe nee}

_than even the U-2 altimeters showed what the height was

They want to contact Hal Clark (0/DDS§T) this morning. I
pointed out that with the exception of a few lower-level
employees, those familiar with the program are no longer
available. They said they would want to do this today

(I have alerted Clark to this).

ii. I said I have two problems to table. The first

 
 

w

fe

_ APPROVED FoR ra ‘
CU BSTomear aris

 

WEMORANDUM FOR: 9 3r. Carlucet

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
    
    
   
   
    
    
  
  
  
   
   
 

hour. Thshowing the draft memo T noted that what
I said to,;hin yesterday on the subject may have
seemed rhetorical, but that feelings at the Agency
are very deep on the subject, I expréssed the
thought that ve had not yet explored every avenue
of mechanical devices for Solving this problem, and
it seamed best at this tine to not forvard this
detter, TI said I assumed ve vould have problems
domstream, but there is still a chanee to solve thi:
one. He noted how complete our response had been on
the cefector problem

i said I wanted to be able to Say that he also
feels there is still room for some solution, which
he confirmed, ‘le also said the Thairman is prepared
to_go a long way on just shout any issue. * ;

in essence, tlere remains room for, and desire to,
compromise, even if we haven't a clear solubion in
hand at the moment. I think ve can hold up this
memo Tor the moment, and try to vork 44 ot orally,
if you vent me to sDeak to the BOT I will, but ve
have to Sevise a “rogedture that meets everone's neede,|

conn. °

 

LEASE 1353,
EV PROGRM

ae Jue

SPS Chane:

ON,

ce ’ . . . : -
 

[roetonas-02i] ; Ook

 

[] UNCLASSIFIED oe i petals] SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional) 7
'-HSCA Request

‘> -29. June 1978

TO: (OfRew. designation, room number, and : * so hots . Lae . i”
building) : a COMMENTS (Number each comment te show from whom |-
Poke. : > Inm. to whom. Drew 9 line ccross column after each comment.)

[The attached memorandum from
{the HSCA is based: on recent

with him during the period’:

his’ bona :fides were-under-

‘question,..as well*as- legal:

‘considerations and: possible.
edical. questions..-It 9.- °°

‘would be-appretiated if

you. could*have a -representati e.

meet with us in the:conferenc¢
room in 6D-0107, at:1100 on
Friday, 30 June. . oo

 

RETUR
ground Use
“ Bor Not Reproduce

 

 

2166/

 

Nor OLD SSS (SECRET «©—-«7 CONFIDENTIAL «© 77 INTERNAL [1 UNCLASSIFIED

3-46?
 

29 June 1978

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Meeting with HSCA Staffers

1. The undersigned, in the company of Messrs. Joannides,
Gabrielson, and Rininger met with Messrs. Blakey, Cornwell,
and Goldsmith yesterday for, about two hours, starting at
about 1600. After some preliminary bowing and scraping as
to who would go first, I started.

2. First, I passed to Mr. Blakey a package of papers
prepared for release under FOIA, involving records of
conversations with him in reference to a HSCA staff employee
who did not meet all security criteria for work on this
matter. I stated that we wanted to know if it gave him
any problems; he undertook to let us know today.

3. I reported that we had notified Mr. John McCone
of the HSCA desire to interview him. I said that this had
been done ‘through Walter Elder, now with Resource Management
Staff. Elder had been the DCI's Executive Assistant when
McCone was Director, and was the channel through which
Mr. McCone preferred to have contacts of this sort made.
Elder had reported that Mr. McCone was departing his home
‘for Seattle at the time of his telephone conversation with
him, and that he had not heard further. I had spoken with
Mr. Elder about dealing directly with the HSCA and gave
them his_ telephone number) (376-5565) 7} Elder will keep us
posted of developments. ~ —

4. I stated that we are trying to look ahead to
potential problems that can be resolved before the last
minute. I asked specifically what plans they had for the
public hearings in September, and what they would require
of us. I specifically noted our interest in security
considerations. Mr. Blakey said they have been thinking
of it also, and he would come back to us on this in ten
days. I replied this would give us plenty of time to
address the problem,

BY

E2, IMPDET
CL by 13190

 

21463
 

5. I noted that I had written asking for an up-to-date
statement of the internal practice of access within the HSCA
staff. I knew that they observed a need-to-know principle
and it would be helpful to us to know who was approved for
access to certain matters. After saying that everyone was
cleared basically, with some having extra clearances, he
said that the basic principle was by team. I noted that
the Mexico and defector issues involved sensitive matters,
and who should be given access to this was useful information
to us. He said he would check my written request--which he
did not recall--but did not make any other commitments.

6. I asked about the Beachhead agreement and the
subsequent issue. He said that there had been no formal
acknowledgement of the beachhead draft proposal, as it did
not coincide with his understanding of what had been agreed.
I said that there was only one reason for the undertaking,
and that was support of the hearings, and that was what the
agreement had attempted to record. JI said that there are
counterproposals on how to handle the materials for the
Mexico and defector problems. I said that the given reason
for wanting to hold those materials for writing was their
concern we may learn of their thinking. Noting that con-
venience may be a consideration (Goldsmith had indicated
this to Rodger Gabrielson in a conversation last week), I
said we are prepared to install the two-combination safe
up there, to hold the materials on those two subjects
separately from the beachhead materials used relevant to
hearings, per se. However, we did not intend to move
additional Agency documents to the HSCA area. I tabled
a draft statement of what we are prepared to do in this
respect. I said that we were not proposing an arrangment
to be negotiated, but are stating what we are prepared to
do in an attempt to accommodate ourselves to their expressed
problem, under the existing agreement, and this is our answer.
If this was not acceptable, I said we could provide a four-
drawer safe at CIA Headquarters with a combination set and
controlled by them, for purposes of report writing, and
they could move their material to that safe. Blakey said

he would review the draft statement (copy attached) and

let me know.

7. Blakey said that things had changed since his”
early days. Full agreements had been reached quickly,
then, but now things took longer. He noted the atmosphere,
and also noted the "changing of the guards" (referring to
my arrival). I said that one of the first things I noted

 
