 

  
 
       
       
   
      
      
     
       
   
     
       
     
     
  
   
    
 
    
       
 
 
      
     
    
  
        
    
 

 

“433 galy, of FE Division briefed QRPHONE/1 in sub—~

     

SO SRGRENRE CO |

ns : 2
. cot

i

. Ge Ge ehia cepar the night of 26 July

om the 8:00 p.m. THA flight to London.

 

 

 

d. This will get him in London in time for a
previously scheduled ops sesting wit on
27 July. He leaves on 1 August for a one-month
vacation touring rost of Buropo with his fanily and
Spending one weok in Halta.

: 4,* Before the arrival of we discussed other
‘perationth matters as i

 

  

 

Richard Ward,
recently returned
script of a new book

_ written by Cambodian Prince Nordom Sihanouk titlod

War with CIA.” Sihanouk gave the manuscript to
. we fred Burchett who gave it to a North Vietnanese
: friend to give to Ward, Ward was asked to find an
‘ Ageriican publisher and he, in turn, asked for ORPRONR/1*s
‘help. Burchett is an old friend of 8 stays
‘at his apartment whenever he visits The :
fanugeript has alroady beon given to a publisher in i
Europe. QEPHONE/1 asked if we would be interested in
-@ copy. I told his to get one if he could do ao
without straining his cover.

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

  

b. His friend, Lyle Stuart, the publisher, has

: Been trying to buy the American branch of the Oxford
University Press, and apparently is about to consummate
‘the deal. He offered QRPHONE a job as his European
/vepregentative if the deal goes through.

Ne. Per requost I asked QRPHONE ta give
hie instractor & Copy of the long liat of names and

° opganizations given to him by Sibecho. Also per
fequest, and in answer to my question, QRPHONT said he

_ Received the magazine published by the Turkish party

‘$a Collarda Book Shop fon London.

  

 
  

 

 

 

 

BL « From 5:00 p.s. until a little aftor midnight on

  

 

stence on MFLAN program, our interest in having an
QRPHOYE/1 pursve such a role, and explained the great amount -
of Greary work that would bo involved in learning the comaunist
G@ialectic -thoroughly if the whole venture were to be success
ful. I will make no effert te condense these seven hours

    

 
 

|

 

   

_ 3

   

of etheres} discourse, but GRPRONE was “fascinated, captivated.
by &¢ and clearly sont earl an on that long murky
- path te “enlightenzont." on outstandifig job in
_ Setting the stage, describing the target, and thon explaining
“step by step-how he and GRPHONE/1 and would work
together as the oncration ) Regarding QRPHONE's
: Upcoming trip in the U.S.. ined exactly how -
o- QBPIONE should act as he meets each of his friends and how .
'-" fhe should develop his new-found “interest” in studying . +
Maruiet-Leninias as he aects with those various people. -
QRPHONS was very responsive, took notes, had ideas. of his
ew, but more inportangiysRaasvery appreciative of the
‘ ¢actical-advice that / ed. QRPHONE/1 will sest
the following people over the next ten days.

 
   
     
 

 

 

 

   

 

 
     
       
   
       
  
 

    

@. Richard Ward in New York City.
: b. Libel Bergnan ia Nowark (on three different
Occasions)

6. Benjamin Biske, Milton Henry and a fellow
‘named Boggs in Dotroit (he's with NAR).

d. Don Wright, Herb Block, and Sidney Lens 211 ‘
‘$m Chicago. af:

@, LPWEAKLY/1 and family in Chicago
#. Davida Fineman and Saul Landau in San Francieco.
@. The Hartin Luther King Foundation in Atlanta.

      
   

    
     
 
     
     
     

        
    
  

  

    

Ue 6, A121 of the above were carefully chosen because of
who they wers, what organization or philosophy they repre-
‘ sented, or their interest in the Chinese, and the extent to
which the whole would knit togethor and form a viable base ~
which go 28 & Springboard when ke returns to
QRPHONE to join, or in some cases rejoin,
3: study groups in London including the one conducted
-by Hanchanda. The role that QRPHONE should play with these
groups, #s well as others in Europe who were singled out
@uring varicus parts of the conversation, was also spelled
out in detail. By the end of the evening CRPHONE had clearly
. 4g mind what 1t wae all about, what ho should do next. and ..
the purpose of our reconvening on the 24th and 26th to decide -
finadly what it all amounts te. ae

      
        
     
   
         
 
   

   
   

 

Skies j5:

  

det ete eect mae

 
genet non

18 July 1972

. MEMORARDUM FOR THE RECORD
-- SUBJECT: Woeting with QRPHONE/1

2, 2 met with QRPHONE/1 for much of the 12th of July
and wearing tvo hats. Wo first went through tho third phase
of the training exercise in which ¥ had been playing the role
o2 an agent prespect whou he vas to assess and recruit, and then
later ta the OTR safehouse I identified myself as the Headquarters
. eff4cer responsible for his project. Incidentally, he did an
* excellent job in all three phases of the training exercise and
' @id particularily woll on the recruitzent itself. QRPHONE/1 is
clever, imaginative, has an excellent grasp of this espect of
- ¢padecraft and handled himself particularly woll in a a complex
and changing training econario.

.  @,. As the Headquarters staff officer responsible for his
reject, i described in dotail the reasons for the long, sorious
oos at his porformance these last several months, the changing

istelligence and operational requirements we face, and the care—
ful seratiny he had been given as we bogan to map out new direc=-
tions for hin, all of which ended with thia advance four-week

- traaning program, testing, and evaluation asd substantive

briegings. ‘Be said he was a bit confused by the WOMUSE brief-

ing of last week ao I explained how that tied in with this evoning's
plnonod discussion on the China progran.

_ + 3. We discussed his itinerary, personal plans and the”

paolae ef the next several sonths, all of which wero clarified

to his satisfaction.

7 a. He will be debriefed on 24 July at 1000 hours at
the OTR safesite[ __ folloving his return from the
operational trip around the country. Ce nan
i> hb. Twill meet hin for the final operational briefing |
| | Session at 1000 hours on 26 July tn the sane OTR safesite.

- Bieri FACH CEEE32

~ SFE O. 15852, £:
Me

“NBT

 

—_—
74-0000

wate

 

. ~S=
ne Or aie net ie

te corplex. fs wag thug eb very enact 80
eofesite fras the restaurant for the recnating

structor’s Corervaticn: FUONE ds a pron’
&S 0:3 Gcaratare top was very discs
Syary elrosspect, he did, nevertholeso, let the instructor
‘Be Eazy on oeceaien besa beailed vith eenathine 2ase than p

ecoadusiods nesttive pa woll. ag positive cosmcnta ero

vy training
solicited, tha fisld gtaticsts
a

 
74-0000

Sew

eje
dctcrtyttn, ee access, houra of avaiiadility, the opposition, prea en’

<cny eG to gultchility -- 4¢ ume ali there. He just didn’t like to
writs out tha$ ugaa viich be coulé report orally.

panse to think, te review,

Tenexbor <= just a2 Ikstype printout.

eboras FHOSE peeforred to save who training :
write 4¢". In this case, “
Baa to eos the report bafore
aig Bua Up cae thik PIOsB feols thst en ozak

finds it @ little difficwit to bring hissel? to

S& written report. Told dsofinitely that he m-s6 write .

cid given 9 denise, be cooks to deodine ext the report fa :

 

 

4 52, ° vals noorte oy hte vocretteans ner ng]
Bo gctcntcane Bo dtaging €0 conclusions mo padiings mo alaiuterpreta

Tan's eepart ea his
ectices euring the cousters surredlicnce exercises, marvelicd a

 

oe narnmaronen 2
74-0000

 

  

eng a wea '~ . .
sop hgh Ha Sr beg noche Ft, aa To tla.

 goverthcledss pmocs 4a now fully cognteant of the eppexrance
Sabb one ott ck A ia the future,

    

   
 

   

3a" “Ps the oscend exerci, thare were tu ites of note: ne, a
thd tosm wag supeined to nove ta FuOts"s report that HGS even bad
tha sung of the book that the gurveiilent picked rp shca bo felloved ,

(SSReEE aces aa Geokdes thet Kucae may hive wads tee of thes tub
rvs possMaly hove mada the third. ths tsem captain, oa reeding ..
Bicio spate wae atcaad to e09 that HANS bad fadond ean‘ third
Ha 5140, Bub. good.

Ops ems bed on elicktation exareiea (4a dat
semtettica cariaa) vith

   

 
 
  

      
     

   
 

sdAition to the devolep.
an

 

  
   

   

  

i
i
!
Hi
t
4

ease wend
 

EP ae

 

« ONTINUATION OF -
aeDISPATCH =”

 
 
 
 
  
 

week of September,

 

  

LCPIPIT and

  
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe SEAS Gir ATION TSISPATEH SYMBOL AND WOMBER
° SiGiicipicsuiie OEPY-1814

sisply would tell then and bis business contacts that he was

traveling on the continent. Please advise us of the dates which
are determined to be convenient to QRPHOHE/1. The
Headquarters officer would prefer either the third or fourth

and certainly not before.

3. Ag indicated $a the reference we eclicit comments frou

Station on the results of our varied assessments

Of QRPHONE/I and our decision to move ahead in the new operational
directions described in OERPY-1661. We view the coming year as a
trial one for thease purposes and the Project Renewal has been
subsitted with that understandirg clearly deecribed.

fer to conversations he had with
should know that used
: a

“Bob” in all his meetings with QRPHONE/1.

 

 

 

 

   

200 ~ iat ~/5tf1

 

Sinan (Oo

 

 

 
‘oa t0nt7-t0025

 

 

Fore tere a repre ng gr apernam

Lot geen

PROCESSING ACTION

 

MARKED FOR BODEXRNG

a sPATGi

chief of station a oe

Chief, WOLIUR : : Ras RORUN
SUARECT
Cnypat/DTDORIC/: PLQRPHONE/MHPROBE/STFLIEFLAM Training
ACTION SEGUISID - REPENS

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 294821

 

 

1. Being forwarded USC are copies of the QEPHONE/1 training
report, the evaluation, contact reports of meetings with
QRPH a WOGEAR review of QRPHONE/1's book and some notes made
by the STPLIMELAM Headquarters officer, |
after his meetings sith (ONE/1. These are for the inforsation
of both LCPIPIT and tation and, taken together, should give
you both the flavor of the variety of seasurecs taken to assess the
operational potential of QRPHONE/1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. During leroy at Headquarters ve discussed the
neceasity of having QRPHONE/1 undergo an intersive seven day

| STFLIMFLAM training program to be conducted It is

our opiaion that in order for this training to be of aaxinun

|

 

 

 

 

benefit, QRPHONE/1 ought to be ensconced in a
safehouse facility which provides security, comfort and an
atmosphere conducive to learning. It is important that the
training be conducted in @ locale which will allow QRPHONE to give
bis full attention without being disturbed by his multitude of
business and gocial contacts. Thsrefor ecommem: that LCPIPIT
rent @ cottage or heach house away froma for the duration of
tne training cycle. In discussing this with QRPRONE, he readily
agreed and indicated that there would be no difficulty in gotting
away from his family for as long as we thought necessary. He

 

   
   
 
    
  
 
      
     

Attachments:
A. As Stated (u/sa/c)
B. Iden Sheet (u/s/c)

Distribution:
“Orig. & 1 - Cos
2RIT 1.=. Cos

 

 

 

 

 

 

LASS'7373 BY,

  

CS COPY

BESPATCH SABO AND MUMIBER
OEPE~1814

Distribution:
1 - E/BC

 

 

 

 

2 etree ot

wae ae
74-0000

WOLIME

|
&

i
|

i
E
&
i

te WOLIME
' Subjects “covers

Thuz,

jp LOS brocgat a caadwich with
to the instrentor.

33
te

 
74-00000

 

    

    

“ies

thirty thet

gt SN

  
   

eee ie

    

   
  

 

 

 

    

 

   

 

3399 94

iii

faut 3h

fgdga Hels ie

nilleae4l sy uit

dab Gi ie ue fine
bd ae ap tid aor
i i iH a ilu Hh
34 F :

8

ay
