74-00000

 

 

“Soeobe # sho hee. otaae ‘been pag'd “by the ‘Sovletas when: asked
. about other: eontacts, of har. daughterte. in Moscow sho stated

‘ fokye. 8ha mentioned | that ancthas TAR. seerstary etatned ta’.
: Alse 8 socretary af ‘ehe Mentean’ ‘Hobadsy named ‘atwando CARTU,. Lola.

- daughter” ‘aha had’ proaised to take hor daughter te Tokyo to: Hoel
- wieig Kor boy fiend, This waa conpligaced however because - this |

en: ee

” Bvagtltan scbaszetor. te transferted in lote fell. If thto does i
: not. conte. off,- tea ft. visite: het daughter. 4h he fall ‘oha should ;

   

aeons under sens ° pretant to. have: ‘tier daughter. leave. ‘Rusoles cea Pe

  

a tiivelvanent ° wien, opvors, On the éontrary,. she’ wos: vary fortunate a in a
| te heve us to advise her on hov-best to desl with her probien, ei

 

¥/2 was concerned about her daughter beeauné har daughter had
‘eat socially ‘with on GGACID. offser in Hoseow nosed Richerd

that hor daughtsr wae in love: with, ena of ‘the van ebsssy ;
secretarics who had lege Hoseow and waa presently assigned in

 

 

Moseow named © SALAH end: the Consielar, Agha Hawse were ‘sequatntaacds, [

§

Shoe mentienad ‘that during bit scheduled fail wiett to Bee her:

 

  

would infuriate WAL who is otrecigly agatast. ‘tha daughter sarrying - ty
@ Moslen, Subject a0 giver 950, te aff-0t tank fares, the 4g

ease of sn. antenna, and far.good wALL, . Tee meeting | was eone - i a

eluded at 2107 when Mrs, DE ‘SILVA was sehodulod to get out :
of the bathtub, Two other namas of possible interest were

 

   
”

 
 
 

 

ci

 

 
 

 

 

 

: _ Bailed in ‘anid esténsibly, coxa’ ‘trea this. person.”
. ‘Sabjoce ‘etated that. she would depart Nigul
. on 22 Hay 1963. The waoting was conducted huretedly ‘and

> her ‘companion, : : : .

“poameoss. was able. te sentaect ‘hee and 3 brie meoting was held”

at 3 2100 hours, ie wee at thte sbating thar Anetructions were >
given V/2 to tighten. up on. Rheke socurlty letting tha dangers

; of aedio-gurved lance and the necesotty tor “great, sare when _.
7 watling the letters: oat. Fer ‘hee posetit, KUBARK security ia
“dealing with her cise was emphasized, She saa also Anstructed
. be react with dtabelieg tieabined with. indignation Ae a réeruit=
4 ment’ piten was made to ‘ekiber of thea. She waa also- urged not

os SECRET ,
. 7 an . Dg e . yo a ;
the nace ot VAlts aunt,p She waa told that coma

of ‘the. “tneoatng sha “in the future, vould: be written st

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

necessarily ‘ddd conctuded at os00 hours. ‘Plans were made ‘for

“the Subjest to retumn for a ‘brief eontast with DORENOSE between
1430 and 1609 houra atesr finding Boag exeuse to get away ‘f€em

8; Subject waa ‘igble to break away free her eospantan

ip ‘tine to make the scheduled seating and when ahd telephoned, aan
80 80 notify BORENCSE she wala erroséously inforsed by the hotst. ms

desk thet DoRENOSE bad checked UT... ‘Agtax, aoa difficulty,

te inesurage. further aoehul eantack ‘with: the. Locutwov'a ims.
hopes that LOGUINOV would! loss isterest. She was advised that

her daughter ohsuld be enivuraged to liave Moseow 42 the
5 :

 

_ SECRET

’ : i

  

: Guest ‘AtrLisas aa

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

i
1
,
Be
1

'
|
'
: 1
+ .
1
fl
i

‘ . SCR rET

; aanecemant as vallé and ta neoping with her. own thoughts. She
TT told, that finol guidarce on this: natter vould be: given ner” i
: at a subseqizont, wooting to be held ta the ‘afternoon atter—
 DORENOSE: had Faceived ‘thé Headquarters tract. Te au scission

 

 

 

thea wint to the eommalcations,’ . So 4

| 6, When the Subject atated that hor husband was. unadle
to > bring eat either the pads or his instructions on how to vee
the pads watoh had bean given him in Hew Yer, 48 wae decided ,

.,. €0 Sssus oro, redwend size OTFtg genccaled in a shaving whee
a s/w instructions oa the ‘uae. ef the CYP vould be peened by

BARKER in Hawiao . Chey. She ‘was told ‘phat sagen would | ba as

; tha ‘lebty. of. this : WALtén. NoGl ta Mexico City at 0730 on "23 tay.

_ Shea they ‘hava’ recogilzed cach other ebe should follow his ‘frow
“the Hotel, If BARKER ts unable to make che exateet he As: to
. telephone her later ia tho day woing, cha nema, BETO, Subject was

told thet wa were. unable ‘to sone Re as ‘yet, with an extended _
dus lesaxphiona eet whieh ohe had requested, but this would: be.

available for thé. BeEt, contect, later in the, summon. -

Te. . Toward the, ‘eet of the wosting, Subject passed eranse

. Lattons ‘sha hed nade of notes giten . her’ vy, wh wathh ho belteved-—
ts be of Amgelligenca’ interest. ithay are; ‘taaleded 68 Attackzent
A)e “Ungortumately, BUREROSE was sasble to. review chase teports

 

 

 

with her but sha was pursuaded by tata over language
aotea and tho carben sopy of V/Aly latter to his aubassader
(a tranalation of whieh is Agtadnesaz 8). |‘ fha C/O requested

ths sexe of a perean in| ike weald have reasea to write

te 0/1 bat who ist aot doing eo at Ayes preqent Gime, She gave

SECRET,‘

 

 

   
   

ceria:

  

 
74-00000

. . !
Oo SECRET |
been recetved by v/1 and proalsed a epietol dallvery | eopy of
it to W/2 in Mieat, Relating to thie, v/2 etoted tothe C/O @ os
‘chat ‘ta ond of V/l's wsetings with COROHA of the Foret ya Offiea, ; ;
: ~ coRoHA, steted. that he was requosting[ ts reise, the
4 Joa “tatu of ‘1te: ‘Teptesentation: ia Havana: and’ to post a ‘eharite
there, V/2 wae ‘told. ‘by the, C/o: thee after cheek whet, |
Headquarters ‘gonderning “Losuimey' a background, specific guldone - ;
. on how to handle the volationship would be fortheoatng.. .
3. Fron: “SANCHEZ, W/L alietted- reed bud iding Laoraat ion’
watch he had pug on an overlay which eau, pacaed. by v/2 Coane
. 7 te sas Reports). - SANCHEZ had invited. wt 20 Oriente Frovinee’ “
‘kth. bin in ghe nese future 0 Bee: sone of hte projects.
Reluctantly we instructed: W2 to coal v/1 ee turn. down the |
ae tuvitetion on grounds of aut ‘peadth but to ‘Leave the way open :
i 7 gor.a sialler ievitation th the ‘future, It (a0 ‘thought - that
this was best watil. we could aasene, LOGETROV' a Anterast in. the
. VASLOUCHES,. W/2 alee passed the war nauies wi had assigned: to -
a a ' hia principsleontacts and a diagram of the Brosilian Hehe say
So "including deasurenents of tha cut building wate DI UBALDO had
|", @teguased with V/2 ti Haxteo city relating to Ls possible uso.
To . . a8 a dead drop, & pamphlet epeitiod, Eias al Exports and
oe Towsitts o£ Suhon Zoraten Teade iakesnciasa, ‘alse wae passed,
of — (Seat te $as/Reports.) W koe of neact pasood showed numbers
and seme other data on those passdiigeit whieh hed daparted
Cubs in two Cubana flight: to Bramdi thay the purpese of picking |

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 wp the Cuben sporte sean in Beaadl (anne to SAS/R3).

 

3 +
SECRET

rn

  
74-00000

SEPT.

by on 19 May DI. WALDO returned to wachtagton, DORENOSS
t thie: “weating, .

 

Set wich w/t on. 20 May, fron. 9760 « 0900 heures A

 

wi. wag’ given the ‘eeyuay sterile phone» -pomber ‘end told that all .

  

LOGUTROV's. approach (the ‘traces’ Pa ne sii had ne
oo been received), ‘In our opina thera were threa posstbilietes
and tro oe thesy vere unlikely. Piret, LOGUINOY' 9 approsch
- gould be an innoesat one ‘and be merely for the purpose of

 

. oatabliohing a friendship, ‘6h @atension of ‘ete: thought ‘would ,
pee be: the possibility ‘of tha Anterest {ig ia dageceing. Given - the .
cL aga ‘difference in: the’ tie coupled. and woightrig, other factors, :
thks was ‘considered wilikely. The second pea bility: fa thet”
) the’ Soviets: kave ‘bees alexted,. posoibly ‘by Wire “open code:
cable cof ‘to the stoucngs posatble Lnve Lvesicne with
“the Aineieans; This alse Ae. walikaly for hai | ‘this been the e2oe
the Taae thing’ the Soviets vould wish to de would be to elert.
: the SLOUCHES ta ths feet that, thoy wenn andor evsptcton and
; therefore bring. about a “ede An chair nveivttiogs | i
LOGuINOW's sudden and fairly intensiiqe waleivae
had just this effeat, ) The third are anee Lana
a ds ther the Soviets are. cultivating: VEL Wor ued os a penetration
"9 the Broaiiten Babssay. V/2 accepitnt te s aaa  offleer’s i

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

  
   

Cas
tens te, ‘ites

  

a - ' SET

   
74-0000

ce SECRET

    

 
 

- pavers) yoare ‘vastouca/2 had. bei contacted at the pains Te
‘Embassy by Volentine 3. LOSUTHOY,. ea attache at tha Soviae x
Rebsesy, These contecta took place very tie or threa menths
when LOCUTIOV would bring wihea requoste fren bis Babaasy. The Sus
last of these budinese contacts wae in. Pobrvary of this years one
On 27 April, while vastouca/2 wae in tenies Chey, losunv,

: phoned’ che Brasilian, febasey abkiing for vastouci/a ant when _
informed thee aha vss not dn, requeeted her Bose" phoma menor :
(alisted) frda tho. givl” ‘answering’ the phone, Hilda BOLIVAR:
Agizl ‘friend of SANCHEZ), Tha: girl wefuned. te give out the :
mabe. et 1600 en 1 uy, Logue apparently having | acquired 7 i
tha wander. fren ghe consuls ‘list, called VASLOUGH/2 ather. | an

| hone oaly to be told hae. vAsLoucH/2 wae wirkiog that eorsing. a

; . at the Brasilien Baboscy. He finally. got. VASLOUCH/2 | ‘on tha |
oa _ telephone: at 1600 hours and atated thee the date ves en

" Auportane holiday for his and that he wishiod to visit the -

: VASLOUCHIS with hie fasily to bring a tesa present for vastoica/2,
LOGUTEOYV and family arrived at VASLOWII/2¢0 homwa at 1800 hours
aed steyed until 2100 hours, ‘he prewmet: was 4 bottle of "Red

* r3

  

 

 

 

 

  

 

Sonreneeanteemctnn rts ent eneen etna te nen ne annnnangineneerun nes eee _

SECRET, .

 

 
[og 10173-10078

 

a
1
i
:
i.

 

 

ow.

"PLAC. a Sande Rotel. ;

SECRET

ae . 17 Juss 1963

cae anne

CONTACT REPORT: . PASLOUCH/2, DI WBALDO, and ponds, a
DATES 4 196 20 May 1983, :

 

| Mbacil ‘Beach, Viorida Oe.

 

A, . DORENOSE end BI UaALbo serived by: tami at cle Senda
focal at dppronimacaly 2330 hours and in the. Lobby passed the
Sudjest, her traveling conpanton, Hee. PI STLvA (nother of

7 Brasilia charge, GAHBOA)- and Mr, & Dire, Kurt piastiaee (S00

Contact Repext’ dated 3 May 1963), wheh setyoea they hed spent the
eventing.” While the. eed ease officers ‘wera nogottating: rocks,
with the donk. elerk, vagLouciy/2 mada & point of asking for her
hey: ‘whieh indicated her ‘Foon Bumber and the. ease officers vare
therefore able ta got ¥oons en the floor juse bvalow herd.

(OTE: Ger oentacts with VASLOUCH/2 were dépendoat upoa the |
snout of tinea ‘she sould apend away ‘tron her writting travel Lng”
companion.) As previously arranged, . BI UBALDO went to. the,

her to his room hare the debriefing took place, At the out-
eet DORENOS® waa introduced ao William Cline aad it we explained
thee DE WALDO wee meving out of the opsration. This ingtial
wecting thich lasted uatil 0900 howra was confined prisertly to
two tepies; one, VASLOUCH/1*s eontact vith and eultivation of por
Peenaisee SAKCHEZ whe is charged with gene road building projects

' Sabjeet's hotel roca at 0700 hours the text goraing and brought |
i

 

dol DESY/d .

SECRET:

 

a

 
74-0000

SET a

    
 

' The ‘evening "wae confined to omall talk,.-
“dinner date with,
LocurrOY, and: ‘white picked,

i
{
|

 

 
  

3 vay, “LogutNoy again called and wads
eaSLOeH/2 a8. her hasband for 10 mye

    
 

0030). oy) wet it at: the capri ‘Restaurant. “Because of the ‘notes:
‘ frea the floor show, again little of note wae dlocusted, The - ~
| eost ef the weal waa approsinetaly 910. at ‘the reataurant,
Po pe ginroy isivited the VASLOUCHRS to attend’a ¢eceptton ond showing

 

 

L 08 tha Soviet pascdnger plana, F116, ge ba hald at 53 30 ss oe
F “ i Ky, vastouce/2 aid Hot attend. because, aha tas lesving for ~ |
Maat. thea vastouci/1 gelephoned VASLOUCH/2 in Hieat ea 17 May, oy
i
{
!
?

 

 

 

“he tadtioned, ‘ta: German, that Valentina hed again dropped by,

_ Free these eontecta with Locurney . the following had boan

observed by vastoucu/2. te to approsinstely, 32 years ‘eld,

oO Speaks flissat- ‘Spanioh- with Suet 6 olight-eeceas. and a latele

_ English. He hag: ‘been in cuba three yesra and was fluent to

. fgntoh when he. arrived. te te approntzately. 6 fest’ ‘eal, weighs .
7 about, ‘183. bee, atrongly baile, has ble eyen, blond wavy holy, -
- eensave forehand,’ good eeorh, and aresaes. weil eth esat and
‘aockela, Ba éxtwee himself iia an Anorlesa: ear idedge? ) with —

\ jpenediplesatie plates, a saotwee and Grinke in moderation, He
has a throa and oapdna ls year old 85t, en olaven year el4
daughter ant ‘nds perente aed bie wiin's. parents are livieg fa
‘Meseow, His witets BeaeES is Aleugadin, she 4s attractive ond
werte in tha esasilar office. Her ipubigh ia poor, Ha vas

aware that VASLOUER/2 had visited Meamw recently sad also tow

 

    

that che VASLOUCHES daughter sas wit! the. ‘Bedaiiles Banasay ia

SECRET fi

 

   
 

-. wkth LOGUINOV he referred on three, oséasions to the poasibilicy -

that: ‘their daughter : might, very ‘well arty 4 ‘Russia, a point ,
- thae’ aight ‘relate: ta any. operational apptosehi LOSUINOY may |.

 

_ Sha aleo stated that over tha past yesra ahe has called his | oe
, office four ot five times rogarding visea and has never been. a

 

_ senths, V/1 inquired ag ea: the dhoreabauta of the former a
~ > PRAVBA correspondent, Borovaky, and a8 told be waa in Moogow,: a 7

», Semaene at this point’ wag. thee: "ghay- are attar sosothtag.* wa
: nes :

 

 

ORT

 

 

 

Hoscow, Also ¢hae VASLOUCH/] had vecently ‘been back to
One thing ‘that stayed in V/2+s mind waa thee in conversation

 

 

wake to tha VASLOUCHES, V/2 stated that Locuiwov was the caly |
ene that hed ever eose fo tha Branilisn Babasay vegarding visas. i!

able to reach him, ¥/2.aleo recalled that ducting their outing
ot the Capri Restaurant LocuTEOy staved that he was planning te
reat .@ beach house and wis Leoking - fotward’: ta! ‘ ghia VASLOUCHES:
spending time with his’ and his wife thewe ducing the sumer

 

2. Tho [___ abassador in Washington’ “hae bean kept : i o :
informed en-LOGUIKOV'e advances toward the sLouciRS, ‘Hie ouly ee

 

edviadd CAHBOA vhove vasetien has beon to encourage’ ite.

rolatioashts in hopes of “acquiring soma poliéieal ‘inforas tion -

» fro LocuTNOV. Thol_____] Aubadsador also PALALISA/ PAAELAMELAS -
PULAt/ ttl g/dt/ eteted in his ‘galephone conversation with. w/t
in Hiami thet he had requested tat the sLouceits installaticn
ba elevated and given diplemati«: atatus, He expressed ewprise

that adoppsy of bis letter to th Cuban Yoroign Miniatry had ast
h ; :

 

 

   
