 

SECRET

. yas ‘
or fe
a ' ae

| “SECRET | be

4
above. E. Om % Oct 63 (nee para 7 above) .

erences nner ener mete
KOU by COZ; I had @ call frem Washington (Jack Whitten) at ‘
MeO hre em 25 lov, I told Jack Whittan at 1720/40 on 25 Rov, : :
that this (ab55 would le ea roule to hin doon, Clarned wy CG.

W2XT 7074 » Complete rechack photos all visitors to Cukan Enb

Aug, thru firat balf Nov againgt govl prees photos shuwa no_.
evicense COMALD visit, | Baticr blenk against all Bovemb photos
from 1 Sept. Neje_only “vinit we imo he male wns Cuban Bxb 28 Sept
Saturday on. which Exb closed jad wa haw not hat coverage, Inv-- ~
future will” require at lesef half day photo ceverave both Sov and
Cub Esbessies, Check menifes's ail plants arriving Mexi central
airport fre3 U.S. falls show OSWALD arrival, Passing thia info

GO eeking they chtck border nirports from which OSWALD might

have flown "x1, We do not gnt raniferzts theca domatio flights.

V2xXI 7035 - LIENVGY reporting Sovemb normal, Convernations Latween
Alfredo MIRAPAL Diez with susssct GB Paval Antonovich YATGXOV (who
not available, eo FOSTIVG cam: on line) (One tim KOCTIKOV in error
addressed MIPALAL es AZUZ ani MIPABAL corrects hii. COMATT:
MIPABAL replaced Eussblo AYCUZ Lopez, forcer Cuban Consul}.

VEIL 1026 - LIEWIOY Bovenbd on 22 Nov. reports many calle by press
Propls to got statement from Jove m eseeaccinations they are all

told Sovenbd closed to, call bask Monday.

List of 14 name of contacts of ALFERIAV and KOUTINOY at Sovemb

CO nots to ECHEVEPRIA to beep ssamt the arrest of Milvia LURAT.

that no info fron har is yubllamd or lanakad, that all info frum

her Le cabled to Weshington dmecélately through COO and that her |
arrest ard her statecents is agt spread to any laftints.....

ure: Prom CO3: ECHZVZNAIA said she was arrested with "seven others
dncluding her husband...” They were Maving @ fiesta - and ECHEVERRIA
had Just hed a meeting with The President (woo apparently said “Proceed”
and interrogate forcefully), signed CCS

MEXI 7037 - ECEEVERRIA inforced COS at 1800 hrs that Silvia DURAN and
her husband had already been arrested and were presently under interrogation

¢
Lag

yates

by Gobtrnacicn authorities, ECHEVERRIA pronirei to try to keep arrest secret,

ECEEVERRIA promire’ all info obtained from DUPATS; said first report should
Ye ready by 2000 hro. COS dces not believe poszible to keep arrest fron
14-00000

e)

 

(ARS 70347

SECRET

 

 

‘kad mot heard of arrest although he

ber family and from Cuben Zab very long. SECRET
YEXI 7038 - LILYRIC reporting on KOSTIKMOV's aurveillasce
and also on ALFERIZEV.

In Jen 63 Siivia DURAN seea in 2 card with Tezaz plates,
convertible plet: JP 96 ~ 75 and white Volvo plate WW 94-95.
Anotter Ford car Texas plate Jz ch-76 seen in froat of residence
DUZAN brother, Pls resolve. Abeve to bold in reserve here for
possible use in connection COM interrogation DUPAL.

DIR G4914 ~ Hrs thanks Steticn for efforts mide in heloing on this
critical vatter. It is extremly urgent that we get verbatim
transoripts ia English of all OcWALD intercepts aid other take

which could relete to hin. Forget economy of worcs ant cable.

ODZSVY telic us that Joes PODRIGZZ Molina io not involved, (para 33 above)
DIR 84916 - Arrest of Silvia DURAN is extrecely serious matter which
could prejudice ODYO?S freedom ef action cn entire qursticn of PLEPES
responsibility. Request vou ensure her arrest rept abuolutely secret,
that no info from ker 4a published cr Jaaksd, that ail info io cabled
sous, and fect of her armas and atatecents not spreal to leftist. Wa
are trying tc cet more into on COVALD from SUENVE and will advise,

DIR €4917 (ref DIR 4916 - para 51 above) Assume you are keeping Legal
fully inforacd on developnents ref.

VEXI 7040 - U.S. Consulat: Musve Laredo reported to Ahessador: OSWALD

entered Mexi at Musvo Larsdo cn 26 Sept., said ace 2% years, occupaticn
Photozrapker, residence Jisw Orleans, destination Mexico City, Mexican

tourist card 724055. Sans scurce (Mexi Inigration Records) stete he

deft by auto on 5 Cot & at tuevo Laredo, Will advice LITE“POS and CL2IVY

and will asx EITEMPOS to check hotels in Mexi City to check CSWALD's activities,

YEXI 7O31 - As of 1900 2% Nov., LIEMBRACE surveillance teas and LILYRIC and
LIMITED basehouses all report KOSTIKOV under Mexi Secret Service physical
surveillance. Since cannot continue LISSDRACE unileteral under ebove
conditions must cance] LIESBRACS. ‘This likely due to LITENSCR reading same
LIEKVOY take as Station. Station has not mentioned KOSTIXOY to Mexicans.

 

MSY 7Oue ~- Advised Legat of arrest and of Eqs desire for secrecy. Lrgat

hed talked to govemacion contacts several
tizes in lass hour. his good sign of ECHZVERRIA control for tire being. Also
told Anb vho "very pleased” but vho also hopes. can be kept secret let Jashington
decide on ell "leaks" and releases.

-
14-0000

SECRET -

: : : MEXI 7028 - COS hed urgent call to see LITENSOR 23 Nov. COS
thought woulc be for expression condolence but dsvelopad that
LIENVOY 2@ bec located cull to Sovezb of OSWALD =se_on 28 Sept.

a that LITENSOR eavare of this contact (.

ard passed data to C03 is inportant.

+ MEXI 7029 - Saw photos of OSWALD on t.v. night of 22 Nov and it | -
. obvious photes seat to Dalles were not iden, Dates are elven on

ShUin Photos, PEtatfon raviewing &21 available piotos seracns entering

‘Cov ana’Cub Entaustes, {Station eunzeeting to LIMiKbO 2 that

Silvia Wal woo Méxl éoployee at Cuban 22% end who put CJWALD

; ' on telephore from Cuban Enb to talk to Soverb on 23 Sent te
: : : arrested lomrdiately and held incownunicade until she gives all

details of OIWALD imam to her. LITE"PO0 2 can say D.P.S, coverage

' revealed cali to hin if te nseds to explain.

ny

1 tow, ' ' HOTS WRITTEN BY COS: At 1620 bre on 23 Nov 63 I had a call fron

: ' : Jack Whitten (Washingtcn) asking that I not do para 3 (to arrest
my a : ‘ Siivia DURAN-~ pare 36 atove). I told bin too late, I cauld aot

i recall request. I told tim that he alresedy should have rec'd a
cable in which I told them that President here bad knovledae which

made this “a:tion” (agairst DURAN) so that it could te Mexican
initintive., He said Okay. NOE: I bed return call fron-ECHEVERSIA
at stout 1515 hrs on 23 Nov 63 saying they vould cet "mujer" and
he vould iomediately notify mo. Es thanked oe for info cn her. (Signe: COS)

   
 

oy Kev. YMEXI 7030 - Folloving cars appeared at Cuhen End: 21 Oct 63 at 1900
bro Texas TA 5E2, and oiiver grey Buick Texas Kr-57-73 on 24 Oct at
11:35 hre, Both car licanse plates were black letters on white, believed
ve 63 ieouance. Nequest identification, Althcourch no xnowm connection

1 Sugzest above bs called attention office handling GS/ALD case,

. YZ2YO FOR THE FiCORD fron Jeremy L. MIARCOS om Support Activities
' Ascignzents re GPIDEAL Assazeination.

YEXT 7032‘ Info on surveillance teas - Scviets - no unusually activity. ‘

1 1 le VEXT 7035 = Fol additional calis LIENVOY prebably repeat probably OSWALD:
ot were . On 27 Sept 63 call to Sov MLi Att "Entrada, Man calling seya ts it
. ; aa cad tré .{ necessary to take out a vise to go to Odeea. Man inside seys to call 15-60-55
pore Pa cot. \ and ask for the consul, Man outside asks for the addrsas, Man inside says
3» nel re OW EC ET? they vill give {t to you, (By On 27 Sept 63 et, 1605 (nee para 2 above)
bw : 1 S R On 27 Sept 63 at 1626 ( see para 3 edove) (D. Ca L Oct 63 at 1031 (see para 5
Fee se ee ith ce eA es am

 
 

 

secret

4
; . :
i Ko other ALFERIEV travel. LILYRIC reporting shows ALTERIEV at
. j Sovemd 6 thru 19 Nov. (No coverage 9, 10, 16, 17 Nov.) Will
Hi | cover with LIRICE surveillance. Stepping up processing covering
. j Sovenb, trying get LIFEAT ocerage of switchboard of apt bldg where
; reside Min FKAZANTSEV, susyeat KCB resident KONSTANTINGY and
{  suepeot GH SCNUCHKIN., Having LIPAW report movamints SIDGROV and
. 8ffort rm audio OF avainat §1U, Incoming LIMPAT on KOR KUZIETOOV
‘ wilh va procesar:d ADAP, Pechacking all unsrased tagss LIENVGY center.

PARKER (p) wrote to COS sumiesting, since Mexican authorities olosed
U.S.-Mexican borer (possibia escape route of assassin/a), we should
request Mexi authorities to put police cordon sround Cuban Emb and
require all visitora to identify themselves ~ entering and exiting.

Note to Luis ZCIEVERRIA to arrest Silvia DURAN, the girl who put
OSWALD 1a touch with Sovemb. Silvia is Mexican citizen, lives at
Babia de Morlaco #74; mether lives at Bbro #l?: brother at Rerodoto #14;

she drives Consul car, plates $-92-T7T; phone is 45-06-96; works at
Cuban Embassy.

YEXI 7025 - (Rez DIR C4886 ~ pare 27 above) - On 26 Sept 63 LIENVOY
reported fol: “Entrada M¥.......(eam as pera 4 above)", On 1 Oct 63
- et 1045 bra man called Sovemnb and said “Hello this 16 Les OSWALD
"  speaking...e....(8ac as para G6 above)", Transcriber says OSWALD
is the ons talking in both cases and the ons who called from Cuban
Eab 28 Sapt to Bovemb.
bofoe, . . VERL 1026 Late POAVEMNIA anind COO for all info on fmu ROMMIGURZ Moline. Me ald
he art om ratio KULHIGUNZ plished up in conntotion asnaseination ant
he 4s Mexican. Only trace here is 30 Jan 61 report from LIFIIGS that
om Os¢ .c RODRICVZZ Moline, 51, Cuban, arrived here legally 21 Jan 61
on Mexicana fron Cuba on tourist card 7&643/61/6. Left Calle
Independencia 1/ as contact eddress w/airline. Thia info given ECHEVERRIA.
ODENVY informed of above. Have no info. ODEnvY chief calling Dallas for
detaile, Request Has traces soontst.

camer ey

VEYL T02T - To facilitates sxyzditious Mexi mecords search and aaont
Anvaativations, can ys provide info datas activities GIWALD's most
oe recent stay thra 22 Mov in U.3.

Po grepep
 

H
,

SECRET Sp
Edaundo JARDIN (of Cuban Entassy) calle VILLACOITA of Prensa LIENVOY
, Latina in New York asking about the detention of the President
1 J} t +t Of Fatr Play wita Cuba Committee. VILLACONTA says ba only knows

: , what the ogencies are reporting, that the person's name ia OSWALD,
i that he is a mmver of the Fair Play with Cuba Committee, if that |
; . ; is true, it could have teen also on of the 40 thousand or whatever
+ on the FRI list, but burtly this person is nuts. JANDON says that
' . Af thin je tras (that the my ie mula) i. $a a terribla provocation,
VILLACGITA says that up to rea notion in conf iimad, that be wan
: i erreatad for euapialon and Looking up hia file thay found out ba
: + Walongad to that (Comittee of Pair Play with Cuba), but until now
it is pure speculation, JAIOOH will call later.

2TL5 ‘

WA 22533 to C/wHD to send photos (per para 16 above).

nfs Nas outside (0) calls Luisa of

MO asks LUISA if ene has heard the latest news and Luisa, jokingly tremor“
. Cutan Inbassy

replies, "Yes, cf course, I knew almost before KENSZDY." th aw 4
quspakr agree on the seriousness of the assasgination, ate, LUISA says an we dr~
lin — partyat Silvia [URAN's has been called off co it will not appear fa, ae
they are celebrating death of KENKEDY, nor will they have the party (7 vr

kmxtai coincide with ths burial.....LUISA says shs plens to move ce
tonight to the doctor's (fenals) houss.

MBSXI 7019 - Mexi Station hai photos savas unidentified American
type who is possibly COWALD entering Cuban Enbassy on 15 Oct.
fearching, for pwsiblility proto-docurtnted entry Cuban Emb other .
Say6. Also atterpting estasliah COWALD entry and Ceparture Moai, ©

P2iI 7020 ~ Porsons flew Mort to U.S, who might be iden w/OSWALD: ,
A. Wextcane Flt €00 ta Chisago 1 Nov, lee MARTIN; B, Same fit, 12 rov.| iH
‘ Wilford OSWALT; ©, Braniff flt 50 to Sen Antonio 8 Nov William OSWALD.

BYEZ MEXI T7021 - ODENVY acent left here 2000 local with 2 copies ea
of 6 photos person suspected by OSWALD on-Bpicial flight for Pallas.
> He carrying envelops with 1] copy each photo for airmail special fron
us Dallas to GALBOND at home yer telecon with CURTIS. 1 copy each these
. . photos plus copy tach of 2 photos showing sace persona exiting PBRUEN
Embassy forwarded in EMA €2533 leaving regular pouch tonight. View
above, does Hqs want staffer with additional photos?
. ; Lak co ——Y DIR 64821,- Seni staffer Sith sil photos [OSWALD to Hgs on next flight.
. . q ieee ft
. fat

~ Call Mr. Whittea 652-6627 tH arrival.” ( ~ Fe
' C OL yn Lot wre
SFORE Tate he ane

 
 

<7.

23 Rov.

23 Rov.

<3 Nov.

23 Nov.

<3 Fov.

2) Sov.

 

wel = _>

pat 3

 

  

SECRET

DIR 64822 ~ Ho need serd staffer with photos, We have asked Navy for
photos again, but Mexi can sas OSWALD's picture sooner on preas wire.
Have just re-emphasized to ODENVY Hors sensitivity of Photos you are

sending and also relayed nants of travelers with eimiler namea. Note
radio says OSWALD lived under alies of 0. H. LEE.

DIR 64837 - Urgently require info Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV
travels outside Mexi, hour by hour whereabouts 22 Nov, all details
hia activities during Nev., names and backgrounds his contacts :
also future contacts and activities KOSTI-DV via unilateral coverage,

any indications unusual. activities involving KGB and Sovemb personnel
17 through 30 Nov.

DIR 84835 - KOSTIKOV traveled in September with Ivan Cavrilovich ALTERYEV

who in close contact Cuban dips during Feb 62 TDY Quito. Request reporting
and coverags ALFSRYEV as with KOSTIKCV, °

DIR 84886 - Important you review all LISNVOY tapes and transcrips eiuce

27 Sept to locate all material pertinent to (para 9 above). Dispatch
soonest by special courier, staffer if necessary, full transeripte and

original tapea if avaiieble all pertinent material, Are original tapes
available?

DIR 6858 = ODENVY says that photos of men entering Sovemb which Mexi
sent Dallas were not o? OSWALD. (Para 22 above) Presume Mexi has doubled

checked dates of s@ photos and also checking all pertinent other photos
for possible shots of OSWALD,

“ MEXT 7023 ~ On 28 Sept 63 Silvia (a Cuban Emb calied Sov Consul saying

Forth American there who had teen S6vemb and vich epsak with ocnaul, Uniden
North Amarican told Sov consul quote "I was da your Eich and spoke to your
Consul. I ves just now at your Emb and tasy took my address....." (sau a9
para 4 above)... In view OSWALD in Sov Union and fact he claimed on 1 oct.
LIENVOY to have visited Sovend 28 Sept, Subj is probably OSWALD, Station
vnadle compare voles ab first tape erased, Para threa (EXI 7014 (para 13 above)
should be 2 Oct 63.7 Sire Subj visited Sovemb 4 Oct but not recorded LIENVOY
that date, Also pouching 4 Oct photos, Making effort determine OSWALLS

activities Hexico,

MEXI Toa = Station's chsck indicates no other KOSTIKOV travel outsids MEXT.

6 thru 19 Nov shows KOSTIKOV at Bovemb every day. Plnoing him under LIEMBRACE

surveillance. No recent unusual KCB and Sovenb personnel activities L/ Nov to date.

‘SECRET

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

a nT

. ' \ .
a Co SECRET o>
po Fe ee bo, : ra
Pe ee ee i
Sane Problem existe with the Cubans, that the problem with bio
i (the Americas) is that be doss not know asyons in Cute and
{ Doo j therefore if thet ie trus it will be difficult for bic to cet a
- visa for Cubi, because he was thinking of precessicg his visa
‘ . . (for Soviet Union), becaise he knew it would require weiting a
, i : long tice for his vise t> the Soviet Union while in Cuba and frou
' there go to the Soviet Union. MI said the thing is that if his
. wife right a:w were in Washington she would receive Ler vise
right now, or permission, from the Soviet Union, to return to her “
. ‘coumtry, she is going to receive ber visa in Washingtea but baving
i ‘ ‘this visa, 8:8 could coanunicate to any plece this permission,
. ‘for exaxple nere or any place she could receive it (visa or pernissicn)
. but right no. they do not have thes. (no las tienen), Silvie says
‘ ; certainly an: they cannot give a letter either tecause they do not
; : know if the vise will be approved. ULsays_they only give visas
‘ . saccaniing to indications, Bilvia seys thee she will puttbat on the
. : ilet. AYCa/e" Ga cannot give a letter of recoriendution either
i : \ because be

148 not knoy bi the Ame .
FOr STLVIk says that 13 27 (the Arrigan)., d excuse me for bothering
' :
t .

i i . :
: \ : ' : ;
: | mt ye,
ns i ete wd 2

‘ 1 nr) . :

B00 Sept 152 Silvia DURAN calis Soviet Eabassy Silvia seys chat in the Suben Emtassy is a North American vho was at =  Lienvoy on

’
>
y
{
—
‘
ee
*
é

to
, FP nT

 

   

   

. end talks vith MI . . the Soviet Fihagsy. MI gays wait a ninuts. Silvia spraks Eugiien with 1 uae & \
3 hamden, set WIG sone = wasted

omoné - and coments in Spanish that the, eave APARICLO telephcae a ue .
Vb-12-99 anc to take the number dam - Silvia gays about the Amricen 9 Srv. “ma4, Ue

. ‘ * 4 f i
‘ . : eltizen thet be is going to talx vith My). Azerican speaks Ruselan OV) pebelrecas fed .
: ‘ ' end HI speals in English] Toey coatiaue in English. American talks gent ded wetath Be
‘ ae broxen Russian and says [was in your Boyossy and opcks to your canaul, at,» :

: : yet a cinus..Ab. takes _pgons acd asks American in English what does .
‘ o eo vantt _Avsrioan Says Flease speak Rugssisa, MI-says What eles do yp Le Cofusn)
i you vant? /marican saya T vas®ust ovsfet your Extavsy and they tock Cech Chon
| ty address, MI says I know that? Aigrttin, In larndly recognizable

' Wee ae Jd ing
_ | | sEISaTENT"HE ST dia not imov it then.’ I vent'to the Cuban Babessy ea
it to ank then £5F TG RISEN ECTS They have it. MI saya Why doa't berry 7
, : | { ; ‘you si60 aud anf dnave your eArens with us, it is not far froa the , of
: ' ; nied <p, sratican saya I')1 ta thare rion away. 4. UO.pee
"SECRET Setar tues ve deneioe enya EU WA More efunt Seay mS

: . ; . Se pe boteG ’
cee ae cermin ne 1 nm eee aia aadietnetliendeeatnaliataatamaaaanaenaaee we ee LT pepetowenee,
‘0d 10496-10030

 

 

a

 

me gre 9 EE FET ENE RE re

‘tae Harvsy OSHALD = P0593 «| 201-20 92h8

     
  
  
   

x In comen - | BRACOM FOR conTACT
aT Grr, pen Bleck Mn Crowe Lee th Sb 0.1008 One 1 SaP, Beh _ :
o % Tape bowed oT Upnte: hal Ue womens F fe an : i 2 oe ; i. ; :
~ . i aoe H : ‘ ' ’ B
wet 1egT Soviet Zabassy * ; po | \ Wante visas to go to Odesa, Ccnsul vas not in, Subject tola to
te : , ; H cali back at 1130. one en ne eee ee
“ar day tee «e isege-sottaitsd - ae 30

divi TUPAN calls Soviet Silvia telle MO that the American citizen vas thore, the one who
ya. a wants a visa for Cute on hia wey to the Soviat Union and he wante
weeny (0) Mowe oaby de) ‘ to know with whom 19 was talking thers tecouss cha (filvia} had

ae fant Kia to tha Movie, Evbosry gaying thet if they aceaptad nin
Va. ' and gave hin e viea then thea Culans (Piiasay) would also give hia
_ & vise without further peper work only edvieing Inaizration in Cube
i . aod ha wants to kaow with whom bs had talked there lecauss be says.
ve. : “ ba was told thers would ba no probles. IO gays to wait a moment,
A differeat MO comes to phone and Silvia explains the san thing to
his. Taig M0 says to leave naw and tslephone number and he will
call back, Silvia gives telephone 11-20-47 (Cuben Consulete),
Silvia tars advantage of the phone call and states she has moved
and wants to advises the Soviet Exbassy of her change of addivse so°
that she can-receive the boletin. MO says to call KOUKEAFENKO to -
_ give ber new address, then NO asks tha name of tha Consul or
. Pooh eT Cultuml Attachs, Silvia says the nena is Teresa PRCEIZA and the
. ‘ telephone numbar ie 14-15-26. MO says thanks.
errr. h 4 ot
Ti eet): = a :

; : : ' : :
AcE .6 Soviet EBxtassy/ealis Bilvis ‘ MI asks Silvia ab the American had been there. Silvia saya he |
DURAN of Cuban Exbasay ‘ 4s there now.

Fl gaye the Anorican shoved papers from the
Consulate in Weehingeea, EEE fla wants to go to the Soviet
oe) Union and be
o
—
\

=
z

 

 

my ra !

 

there for a long time with his wife who is Russian,
but the answer tas not come from Washington in respect to this
i problem, and according to this procedure it takes four or five
' ’ months, but without having permission from the Soviet Union
. . ; they should ask, or better eaaid, they cannot isuve a visa here
3 i without asking Washington; hoxever, according to this man
‘SECRET he ssoved a letter indicating he was a mecker of an organization
om aS, pA be in favor of Cuba and that the Cubans said that they cannot issue
~ =) je cp ow y BETAS Without big beving a virg for) the Soviet Vaicn; aad now .{-
‘@) : ; eT] | LT Let‘Gee bot know what to do with him! (the American), because they
— } i ‘baw to wait for the answer from Washington. Silvie agrees the .
gees See ee . :
\
O
—

ia

 
 

 

et ee renee

%) (Amricaa) to MI (Sov. Eb.) #

Line & <~/S- <7)
45. tf ara ne ss v4

a a. WO (American) to OBYSD“DY of
—_— a Scvist Exbassy
“4
4 ow en
X Peghrh .
A aL ra ay
“ : a
oe ee 2 [Exp] to 21 at Sov. Bab
e v - wet ceil pled Th
ia a 1S ee Fp Ter Sar, MA
: in
: WRCLYG dyated Mee GS om Tam ol Mn
beg W552 0.0880 BOT Dy Wades
Loh ate Gobet tine tear 1s oT.
- tower at wat: shine rf Lins
Candas eta, pth fr wear’ rad
Taas et lye pen Syne he proba. mm
fan av ool
‘ “
vey at a.. Ce poe?’ ey Cooter
y BA 5 to
ae Caley Bed tical

ww, ATL nce

2 eee ee ces

1 .
SECRET SG
MO says I was a= your place lest Saturday and talked to your LIENvor
Conaul., They anid that they td send a telegraa to Washington, :
and I waited to ask you if there is anything new? MI says I'd

libs to asx you to call another phone number. Please write it

downs 19-60-55 and a3k for s. cousul. Thank you.

MO (the save person who pherad a day or eo ago and spoke in Lizrvor
broken Russian) spraks to GIYEDAOV. He says RpAs1s lee
OSWALD speaking. I wes at your place Jast Saturday and apoke
€6 a conowl, mit Mey said that thatd. fend a telegren to
Weshington, @o I wanted to find out’if you have anythin naw?
Tut I don't rewemter the nera of that consul. ORYEDKOV says
KOSTINGY., He is dark (hair er skin??). “O says yes, my name
ig OSWALD. OBYEDKOY says Just a minute I'll find out. They
sey that they haven't received anything yet. OSWALD says Have
they dme anything? OBYELKCY says Yee, they say that a request
hes teen sent out, but nothing hes been received as yet.

OSRALD says And what...? OFYEDAOV range up.

 

. draret raul
GEaD ris tn broken Speriah{thea in Enblish to MI. He says LIENVOY
Hello. visa

or RusSia. ‘Ii. 6a;’8 Call on the other phone,
MO says I'm locking for a visa to go to Russia, MI saya Please,
call on the telephone of the consul, 15-50-55. MO says Ons
someat please, I'll have to get a pencil to write the number 9
dowa, They issue the visa there? MI That depends on your
conversation. I don't kacw about this business. Please call
the office of the consul and ask your question. MO asks for the
number again. MI gives him the nuaber and tells him to ask for
the Consul of the Soviet Emtassy din Mexico. MO says Thanks.

Photos of unidentified psracm on entering Soviet Eabarsy and Fama LIQHPTY
who entered Cuben Enbassy or. 15 Oct 1963. ‘

WEXICO CITY 6452 reported According LIENVOY 1 Get 63, American male

who s6poke troker. Russian said his nane Lee OSWALD stated he at SOV7IB

28 Sept when spcke with Consul whoa he believed be Valeriy Vladinirovich
NOSTIKOY. Subj asked Sov guard Ivan OBYECKDV vho answered, if there
anything new re telegram to Weehington. OBYEDOV upon checking said
nothing, racsived yet, but request had been gent. Have photos male appears
be American entsring Soverb 1216 hours leaving 1222 on 1 Oot. Aprarant

age 35, athletic build, circa 6 feet, meeding hairline, balding top. »
Mak aiisy and sport shirt. Source: LIEMPTY. No local dissem,

FRET

 

:

 
 

mn ani tibiae snaitines seililaisiy
x .

‘SECRET

tte . DIZ LEXO reperted on ideatity of Subject of MEXI 6453:
| Lee’ OSWALD (201-269248), DPOB 18 Oct 39, New Orleans,
i former radar operator in U. S. marines who defected to USSR eg *
Lin Oct 59. DIR gives description of OSWALD, background, @&NBt Tangy A. seeayl in
. marriage, etc., and action to pass info to Emb, components. not cower, hot woh

PEXICO CITY 6534 requested Hos to Pls pouch photo OSWALD. ate gee 5,

| Memo to Tha Acbassador on Les OSWALD/Contact with Sov Ext. '
~ . ‘ pouted to Anb,, Minister, Counselor for Political Affairs,
:BSO, cc's to Legal, Faval and INS. Hezo #6831
FEXICO CITY TOL with refe (pera 9, 10, ll.above) stated According
VOA broadcast heard at Statior regarding President Kennedy assassination
one Lee H. OSWALD age 24 has teen arrested in Dallas possibly in
connection assassination of President Mennedy. Direct Hqe. attention
Refs. Request priority pouch photo OSWALD so that Staticn can check
all recent LIQMPTY coverage for Iden. Forvaniing soonest copies of
only visitor to Soverb 1 Oct who could be identical with CSwALD.

AMSMBASSY Outgoing “elesram (Contrel 269) from Amb. Mann stating
Poreigu Minister expressed caidolences, etc., and that on bis
instructions the dorier betwen U. S. and Mexico uad teen closed
eliminate any possibility of mrderer's escape into Mexico.

DIn 84602 (ref }EXI 7014 - para 13 above) Thanks. This cornection
was algo noted here. Trust you will be able use all your facilities

to follow end report Sov Emb activity and reaction during these hours.
Pls cable full summaries.

to

 

Personal letter to J, C. fror COS (Win) with ref to conversation of 97
22 Nov in vhich COS requested permission to give eral ccpies of photos . .
toa. fa certain person mom to J. C.J Attached ars copies with dates of
‘ . vis taped on back. At & p.u, 22 Nov., The Ambassador decided
’ : : this wag important enouch to have Leval tak ecpies of these photos
: ‘to Dalles. Naval Attache 4s making syeciel flight for this purposs.
Tegal officer going to Dallas preaisec to mail this te you. Copies
-= of these photos are being poiched night of 22 Nev. 63.

SECRET

' See ee

 

os

 
