raoono)

 

Sem ee tate, nee ace enatliggtggmanninetatertes tennant

> GONRIDENTIAR =

was based entirely on sources to which Committee investi-
gator's have had access. Our problem was the overall
collection, and particularly some of the substance of the
history. He asked if he could come back and ask for it,
if they wanted to-use something in particular. I said
that we had never closed a door completely, but that the
Director's condition was fairly clear. Those things
relevant to their authorized inquiry were already in
their hands, so I could not think what they would have
to use from this. They will ask us, and we can react
when they do.

5. Goldsmith came over to start reading.

oo ae —_ a es

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution: .
1 - F. Hitz/OLCc :

- H. Smith/SA/DDCI

- N. Shepanek /PCS/LOC

- W. Sturbitts/LA/Div :

- OLC/Subj i

- OLC/Chrono

ee ee

"GONFIDENTIAL

\
 

frorotastongg- ; ‘paarrars . ee

1
}
ED
és
Fae
ati
eS
ES
ped
=
See
=
J

 

16 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

SUBJECT : HSCA Access to Mexico City History

; 1. HSCA requested access to some 200 pages of the
j three-volume history of Mexico City - about a third of
i the material. Thé substantive content runs the gamut from
the history of Mexico University through detailed operation-
al support capabilities and

It is ‘an impressive accumulation of ~
: operational activity - classical sources and methods, as
i well as detailed revelations about past events.

 

 

 

 

‘ Z. We pointed out that the agreement between Chairman
; Stokes and DDCI Carlucci directly faced the issue of the

j irrelevancy of the vast majority of the history, and the

an | sensitivity of it. The HSCA position had been that it had
oF to verify this, and.the access given to senior levels was

{ to satisfy this. Now it was being requested in connection
' with depositions, which would serve to get this material
: into a Committee transcript.

 

       
 

    

z4
pre-

3 ceded the Visit of Oswald to Mexico“in 1963 and assa$sination

j of the President, that clearly had nothing to do with the
Committee's charter. I added that Mr. Carlucci is out of

j town, and will not be back until some time Sunday, so I

‘ could not go back to him. The request was so far beyond the

: agreement, that I felt I could not modify it. Cornwell then
asked that I speak to the Director.

 

 

i 3. I saw the Director at about noon, and summarized

: the agreement and the dilemma, also going over the above.
He stated that I could offer access to one senior staff
member (in addition to Blakey and Cornwell)on the condition
that material from the history not be used in depositions.

4. I spoke with Cornwell, giving him the message. “He
} said that they may wish to use some of the material. I

; - replied that the history is based on other sources; those
- relateé to the portion that is within the Committee's charter

% | 22423
ae ‘DET 0 hl70.

| COMRMENTIML, © nn

Slpy
