 

 

TRANSL TICN

22 October 1959

CONPIDENTIAL REPORT

We have learned from a good and reliable scurce that the Cuban government

is thinking of discharging 5,000 members of the revolutionary army at the

end of November or beginning of December 1959e ‘The end purpose of tile ia to
have the discharged man take part in invasions of Panama and the Doninican
Republics the Cuban gevernzent ‘could not be blamed for such actions, since the
men would not be menbers of the regular Cuban Army. The invasions will be
carried out similtaneously, in order to obstruct any quick action by the
Organisation of American States (OKS)» The sams “source indicates that 3,000
well-ermed men will take part in the invasion of Panama, and that the men
wa come here under the conushd of Commander Ernesto ("Che") GUEVARA, who

4t appears received precise instructions while én his trip to Egypt. It
appears that intentions are first to take over Panama, and, after that, to u
undertake an international campaign for NATICNALIZ{M0.the Panama Canal, For
the latter campaign, they will have the support of several Latin American ari
Several European countries, as well as of several Panamanian political groups,
including the Tercer Partido Nacicnalista which already has declared itself .
in that regard. The sare source indicates that, before the invasions coma about,
there will be an open publicity campaign to pave the way and to produce

internal upheavals in Panama and the Dominican Republic, It appears that the

dnvasions will receive material, financial, and other support from the

Vensguelan. governnent,
NOIR: This information ean be verified by /PEPRIME/ intelligence services
and &scw7 offices in the countries concerneds In time, it will be seen
if the actions noted at the beginning of this report have happened, and, if

so, it will indicate that the rest will come about in dus course, The
informant tells us that Cuba, Venescelan, and Panamanian Cowsuntsts will take

a very active part in everythings

on seen = eatin escent,
 

 

(c) thie meeting was affected at the suggwetion of Br. bended 7 Maleter

of Justice during the adainistration of deposed Cuban President Br
Caress is rociding ao an exile in Panama. : (a3)

(u) oe, USASCARTR Comey: Br. Bailie BEAEZ Portucnds is a soa of the late
Generel Exilfic Ikoes, one of the heroes of the Cubes revolutionary wars agnizet
Spain, Dr. BUGS. bas deena a Congresanen oad a Senator ia Cuba asvwral tiavs,
Avhansador to Panama, and Chie of the Cuban Belegation to the Voited Bations
fron 1952 te 195i. HE was President of the Security Counsil duriag the Exnagarien
TePolt. . . os

3
Nyttthuted

  

 

 
74-0000

 

    
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   

Weeaee SF iePleeET. Ce

- (C} Os 95 cetcter 1959, confidential squrces of U's office bold en interview es
vith Br. Bathio WUE tao, leader of tas Cuban oc “ctoal exiles. Alen. pregan’
wae ir, mafual ia Bavarto, Ube, omeine=lav of twas um moorery Consul of :
fenmas ta Fort ale, Florida, The following infomation was fumished by alee
uring the latersiows : .

Br, BUNEZ indtiated the ccnversation by etattog that HB bad just ccmple ted
@ tour of Furu, Chile, Argentina, Usuguny.end Bradil durin: watch GB establisieg < ~.
perscual contacs with the Preaidents, Amari Yorera’ leaders, end other personalities .
of the sforemmtdoned comtries In aa effort to enlist thair morn! and aaterial

@upport in big endsavors. ..

. In feru, Preetdent ‘anual Prado infonned Dr, MUNEZ that his Goverment te
very porturted by the act{vittes of to Cuben diplamte in fen, - The Peruvian
Goverment wis able to deternine that a recent strike atagod by bank vorkors recalled
financial supgort fros the Cuben Rubassy tn Gimas :

; ta Chile, President: Jorge_Aleesandry complained of nadiling by Cutan :
@tplamate in the Inbor and peasant aromats of tat country.

‘Presidaat Arturo Frontal of Aryentina edviesé Rr, MMEZ that the
rwpersasetons of the Cuban revalutlon are already being fue ta thet omméry, om
sto4ets, peasants aod workers. fhe Arpentine Secretary of War,
Gecaral (Rees) Alnerts iavcher tnlé Or. KUMEL that, in hie opinion, the United
Gtatea bao but two choices Cubat To get rid of the Fidel Castro regime now, by
force if mecessary; o Fight Soviet troops on Cuban eatl in the Audure.

he Brazilign President, Juscelias +4 euprecsed aluns for the .
fasbiltey of the United States Ooveramnt to — ths presm? Cuban sogime,
waten ta tha mala socrce of unret in the Vestam Bamt spheres

De. BMEY stated tint thn Presidents of tha abovecmtionsd countries eA y
their xlidtary and Aiplowmtic lewders indicated that they are villing to support the
Uaited States in exy rove, voether it be military, diplamtic or ecouagic, that vould
grpitoate forever tha throat of Comunim? os represented by the Fidel Castro regimes

Br. HSHZ contioud by saying that he has an appoluteest vith the Preaident
of Fusmza, Srnasto de la OC. Jz., in vateh he would {nform the President that
Broparsticas ape | Bade for 8 new invasion of Peosma, This tius tho
favaders will be hetter equipped emi ongmised than during the ill-fated landiag
&t Playa Golovada in April 199).

  
 
 

  

sunSuct, wae Poreats, der mate (8) et ot 99

BOL FH

tn reagan to the intemal ef tustioa im Cube, Dr. BUZE, atated that the
Gountyy is under the tightest of dictatorships. Free enterprise ia fast Gisappear
ing and atete-controlled economy is taking ite place. AntiUnited States propagenés
io evident everywoere. Soviet agents are operating freely throughout ths coumtry
end ave opanly infiltrating the Amesd Forces, Government agencies end tho propaguads
media. ‘Tho Cite capital hae teoass the new headquarters of the Soviet apparatus whose
ain is to subvert all of Latin Americas

De. MUPMZ further stated that he is continuously furni ering tnformation Fer
. Lonheer - sama bat

taining to the Cormmnist activities iu Cube ta

this agency dees pot seem to realize dee exvavity of the situatloa.
j ever, EES contacta vith representatives of = _-KunaRK, corny |
Pema arid COBARL . ee _ bave dees mone encouniging

Whe aati-Cast:o oxguatsation waich Dr. NUKEZ heada has 20,000 partisan’ inatée :

Cuba vaiting for weapons with vide to start a rovolt. The great miority of thee
yartioans are fommr seabers of tha disbanded Cubax Regular Armed Porces. fr. MINEZ'
orgemisation haa sufficient fimde to purelase enough woapone in Spain to am: these
groups) however, the Spanish Govermmmt will not release tha wepms ustil th? Uaited

States Goverment gives ita approval.

. The French Goverment has offered Dr. RMEZ facilities to train perocunel in
the (alanis of Martiniqw or Guadaloup: im the French Vest Indies. ‘The Governments
of Gustemales and Panza bave also mude sitilar offers, Kovever, Dr. WMEZ believes that
any amed invasion of Cuba at the present tine 16 bownt to fall because the Cuban people
ere being thoroughly indoctriaated and subjected to o very inteasive propagands
by the Castro regim, ville tho opposition bas been casmletely gagged. Br. RRMEZ further.
Gtated that he alco believes thet any revolt will fail ucless the Cuban people are made
_ @ogaizant of what is going on behind the soenes and the threat that the Commmiat ise
filtration wenos to Cuba and her future. Dr. MINEZ sald that, prior to any military
operation, the Cubes people maat be subjected to a cmmtinuous counter-propagmia harvags,
in which the sctivities of tie Soviet agents and their protectors and collaborators are
exposed. Tiia propaganda must aleo attempt to destroy the myth waichimebeen ervated
areund Fidel Castro's personality. In order to accouplish thia project, Br. REZ
eoxyganisation needs urgently s redio station povsrful mough-ta cover the sutire Cuban
tarritery. The Govermwnt of the Dominican Rejblic, through ite redio stations, is
: @lwwady conducting that type of propaganda. Rovever, the Dosisican evforts are
“|neffective bersase of the contermt in whieh the Cubans bold oything Doginicen en4,
therefore, the propugsada originating in the Bominiean Repilis is solfedefesting. - -

the Governments of Quatemnla acd Paces have offered Br, MAES thedy

aatistenee in operating this radio station frog their Gevebtery. Howrver, Panama has

- eum ruled out beamwze of ite proximity to the United States pocitiens im the Canal

- Some. Br, WUKEZ does not desire to use radio facilities ulthin the sontinental United
States to preclude AIS organisation being bracded as a tool of the United States or any
fatermationnl embarnasasent to the United States Covernmest. Tho ideal solutien to tite
problem vould be 2 50,000 watt ehert wave radio trenexitter installed abeard & ship
sinilar to thors used by the Volos of smerion in ite trusdeast beawed to the Inez

Curtatn countries. (8-3)

2 os
aca er ATTACINENT B TO} pePijoo38
i oe

 
  
   
  

 
 

DISPATCH | ——Sifezy
10" Gilet, Wi Division.
"eo « Calef of Station, Habane

  
 
    

 
 
 
     

Chief of Station, Panton cre) we
Activities of Juan Ballio NUNEZ Portuonds, Cuban
Exile and Oppositicn Leader

OR QS
None; for information

 
  

  
 

x"
MARKED FOR INDEXING

|__|
[ee sore sigue

tNOERING CAN $2 JUOGED
8Y QUALIFIED HQ. OFSK ONLY

 
   

BA ASOGT C0 Cg bo
1. Jaen EniliGQiUuNEZ Portuondo, Cuban politician plomat during the
regime of Fulgencio BATISTA, who is now in exile and\ye, d as &

leaier of the oppesition.to the revolutionary government of Fidel CASTRO
Ruz, came to Panama from Lima on 10 October .1959 and Te: ‘or Guatemala
a {eee nee enna ann

“on 19 Jétebex” 1959.

2. The sensationalist press notices (Attachment. A) that appeared in La ~-
Nacion, 8 Panama City daily tabloid whose oppositionist policies carry
over to pro-CASTRO/Cuban revolution editorial comment and reporting, —
constitute. the extent of local publicity for NUNEZ Portuondo's visit
here. However, the local ODIBEX intelligence reporting unit acquired,
and reported on 27 October 1959 to its superior office, this office, and
local ODACID, information (Attachment B) attributed directly to NUNEZ

Portuondo.

 

3. It undoubtedly was NUNEZ Portuondo's sojourn in Panama end his meeting
th government officials that contributed to expressions of concern by ©

wi .
tu-7, Station liaisof] sources over Cuban policy toward Panaza. One
OS ‘Sf that concer was a report (Attachment C) that the head of tel | 24 ,o1
of HYFRACE]addressed to the Minister of” Govern-
ment Justice, ae
wd

 

 

 

ot jen}. 27 :
4, When fiyrorars13 SJ paaced Bue ‘Station|a copy of [iis chief? | report, he |
said that the source of the informafion was SANCIIEZ (fnaJ whom he
described os a BATISTA exile living in Panama City; and S;NCHEZ' source
, Was & person ‘who travels between Panama and Cuba. When passing the’
report {POTHESIS-3 Jeaia also that SANCHEZ had a connection with NUNEZ
Portuonde whom the) II¥FRACE Sigonization regarded as the head of the Cuban
opposition, and that NUNEZ Portuondo had informed President Ernesto DE LA
GUARDIA Jr. and Hector VALDES Ferrabone, Minister of Government and
Justice, that strong action against Panama vas being planned in Cuba.
After an initial and several follow-up queries to HYPOTHESIS-! for identi-
fication of SANCHEZ, [YPOTHESIS-8,\'after several 6 of chec , af
firmed that he had learned that the person in question was Jose SANCHEZ,
Renixes,-shonl Stationtrecords shov is a former lieutenant in the Cuban
National Police, o came to Pehama on 19 January 1959 (reported in:
(Pacy) 4303). ;

jo OF tut . . .

an 4 wo .
ot hua h Cy, Bernd :

Edward G. Bensing

9 November 1959

Attachsests; A,B,C, (a3 noted)

 
 
 

wtitubion:
S watts. A,B,C.
bana watts. A,B,C.

AAs

Fann tas
1am
wee 53
eo

 
‘oa-t0t77-40212

 

   

   
     
  

    

       
  

 
 

  
    
          
  

  

 

   

   

    
 

  

 

 

@ ROUTING AND RECOKD SHEET. a
: NOTE la the abveace of comment: or indization of pctros
. fatea, this cover shes? wi be destroyed whoa the
_ 8 docoment is fed. ae “
COMMENTS | - .
. ROOM
. NO. -
a |
| eon nt
na RETURN TO CIA x
Background Use Only ”
~ . (Do Not Reproduce
~
eh : Ne
P| teed
| | | we
| | | ww
am .
. ww
Siegen
. . w
1400 . pre reokR OD
ee — E ~ LJ
ENC SOS RE asstaace { :
ew INCER i &
CATE BC POF AME oo NON GER *
4: 2 i
ts ier oy GF |facekjosgse e
° tae ida Eons SECRET to) i
te

Martes Bd, Mrtalve hy 1931

donee eee emo

 

Ne. 6995 Peasme KH de f ae

a a

     
      

Nanes Portuoudo Organiso Aqui
Elo Movimiento Contra t. Castro

fa ciudad de Punama ha sido escogida coma eje o centre de la coutrarevolucion cubsna,
divigida por et cumocido lider batitiana Emilio N daex Portuando, segin datos logrados y confie-
mados hoy por “la Necién™.

Fl seaor Naadez Portuonds, ampliamente cenocigo en Panama. donde actud coma Embaja-
dor de Cuba durante varios anhoa, permanccic siete dias como Luceped del Hote! El Panama, den-
tea del mas cigurose incogni aunque tuve oportunidad dv estahlecer contacto ron ciezty sector
de la prenss nacional que nunca ha demoastrado suvpatia hacia le revolucion del Or. Fidel Caa
fre en la republica antillana,

Personas conocedoras de ta situacién pul tica cubana contideran que la presiés det Gobiez-
ne de Washington ha fogrado eliminar « fa ciudad de Miami como centro de conspiracioa contra
el actus] Gobrevas de Cuba por-lo que en su lugar as escugas a Paname.

Samo ee natural, se supone que nucsira Gobierna y sobre todo fos servicine do isteligencia
re Te Guardia Nactwoue! y le Secreta ¢otuvieron enterndos de la presencia ea sucstre capital y de
actividades dessrrolladas por ef sedor Nudes Portuonde.

 

 

   

 
 

 

        

a ta compra de dos fincag una et s
cuales eatacia ubicada en Chirtqus y fa otra va
la region de Sord, putdocion atuada en ct ot
wregimiente de Bryuca.

Las fuentes nfermantes dijeron que Chea.
eienes cmenadas de los recitn liegados, mdicau
que hay In jotenciin de dedicar eras finear
apuoniemente al cult.va de tabact, pera au
iatencion roel or ta de ulncar dos poteates ermine.
tae desde la cust iniciar ta campene trarete -
per Miter Pecteseds contra el gobrerny re s
tucionaeie de Cuba.

aC

  

 

nnn

; fa Nacion

 
   

Furvée 22 de Octubey 3¢ 180%°
ne

ISE INSTALARAN EN PANAMA PARA
COMBATIR AL GOBIERNO DE CUBA

 

 

Mm 6590 Dimoma i, de bt. 3+

’

Alededos de dieciseis personas = povvenie
nentes figuras durante la dictedura de Batista —
arcibaron antier a Panama. Fuentes ests nofi
ctalea informaron que entre e4as personas se
encuentre ef famoso torturader Ventura, quicw
ve dejo entrever és ef jefe del grupo recén tee
ged,

Te Hegada del grus> on referencia tiene,
segue los informantes, re action rou la campana
trarads por <i earmbesdor Nunez Portuonde
pera combetic ef edgimes de Fidel Castro, tee
bor yor dejaca lista durente su incognita per
mancacia coma huesped uel Hotet Panama Hal.
ten

\.

 

Paseo ta Pap. aD) teers LJ 4

Serene re man scene ane
