74-0000

fe
Percretnenns eed

|

 

 

“terma. With the text of the message containing the numerical

| to
before sending it. Cables are handled through commercial cable
channels, .

i the outgoing message requires cover language of any
sort, the preparing operations‘ officer writes it with a simple
number subdtitution for classified or sensitive names and ex-

 préasions (example: #1- Nicaragua; #2- FLN; #3 - passports;

+#4 - Joge GARCIA, etc. ), using numbers instead of real names or

code, he supplies 2 list of the numbers and the terms or names
-they represent, The Central Ciphering Service encodes the
message with the numbers in it and also the ist of number-

term equivalents and transmits the two items to the field station
by commercial cable. Cable messages leave the DGI office
through ‘VEDALINA" and incoming decoded messages from the
Central Ciphering Service go to her and then to the MS Department
for distribution to the proper recipients, The standard term
"PABLO" fs used on all outgoing cables as sender, :

4, When the cable message arrives at the field station,
the embassy code clerk receives it and decodes it, He then
passes the encoded text of the message and the number-term
substitution list, Lf any, to the chief of the field station, who
passes it to the officer concerned, In.no case does the opera-
tions’ officer at either end see the encoded message or know what
code is used, aside from the number-term substitution list
prepared by the originator and given to the addressee in decoded
form. Only the code clerk and the chief of the field station
know anything about the codes or coding process,

5. For incoming messages by cable or pouch, the system
is the same. The field operations! officer prepares the message,
with a number-term substitution list if needed, and submits ft to
the field station chief, [f the message is to yo by pouch, the
field station.chief has it photographed and sends the results on
microfilm; he has equipment for microphotography and development,
If the message is to go by cable, he subrnits it with the substitution
list to the mission code clerk, who encodes megsage and
accompanying list and transmit them by commercial cable,

6 Both pouches and cables are addressed to the Ministry
of Foreiga Relations (MINREX), When the Ministry of Foreign
Relations receives a pouch, it sends the part of the contents
addressed to the DGI to DG{ headquarters by messenger
 

([tostozas-t00t5] :

devel
2 Marci: 1965
. ; . WHC #65-87
, : LX-2486
MEMORANDUM FOR: FLD Staff
a TSD
oc
SUBJECT : General: AMMUG 1 Debriefing Report #241
: Subject: Communications of the DGI
(Cuban Intelligence Service)
RE FERENCE : WH/C Memorandum #65-86 dated

1 March 1965

. 1, When a headquarters! cuse officer in one of the opera-
fhonal departments wishes to send a dispatch or cable to the field,
he prepares the message himself (on his own typewriter) and
sends it tu the Department of Leval Centers office (if it is wolng
toa field station) for transmission by the means indicated, He
may handcarry the message to Lejsil Centers or may send it by
his department driver or an M Building messenger, A driver
or messenger may be summoned by tclephone at any tune, but
there are always headquarters messengers circulating among
buildings carrying dispatches and other correspondence from
one to another. The operations’ officer, therefore, may wait
for the next messenger to come over from M Building or may
call one, The messengers operate on ny fixed schedule but
deliver messages as they are received or ready for dispatch,

2. An outgoing message from the LN Department to the
field station in Mexico, for example, is prepared by the LN”
case officer and sent by messenger or carried persomilly to the
Mexican section (Nucleus 5) of the MS (Legal Centers) De-
partment, That department, if it 1s to go by dispatch, photo-
graphs the message and places the resultant microfilm in the next
pouch to Mexico, MS Department has its own equipment for
photographing, preparing microfilm, and developing microfilm,
an outgoing message is prepared in originai aad one copy; the
copy is returned by the MS Department to the originating officer,
with a stamp Showing the out number and the date and time of
dispatch, if the message is to go by cable, the MS Department
forwards It to the Central Ciphering Service of the DSE, which
has the communications facilities and which encodes the message

 
 

  

3

(sometimes the regular courier from abroad delivers them),
They are received. by “VIDALINA" and distributed through the
MS Department to the proper addressees, When the message

is sent by cable, it goes from the Ministry of Foreign Relations
to the Central Ciphering Service, which decodes it and sends

a ' paraphrased version to “VIDALINA" for distribution in the DGL

nn 2 Incoming messages in Havana show the date and time
received by the. ral Ciphering Service (entered on a standard
form) and the message | ‘number (also entered on a standard form),
‘The Central Ciphering Service also enters the time at which it
dispatches the message to the DGI, and the DGI headquarters
stamps the incoming message with the date and time of receipt.
The date and time of receipt are also stamped on the message
by the department office of the addressee. Cables in the Zapote
Operation file show that a message from Mexico received by the
Central Ciphering Service at 1850 hours was delivered to the DGI
headquarters at 2350 hours and reached the LN Department, to
which it was addressed (determined by the pseudonym of the
case officer), on the following morning. Since it was a routine
message, it was held over at the late hour of delivery until the
next day, for internal distribution,

_ 8 In preparing reports in the field, the field operations’
officer usually interviews the agent and then writes the report
on the basis of what the agent told him, putting in numbers for
names or critical terms. The message is then microfilmed and
dispatched, In one instance, when an operations’ officer from
Havana was visiting Mexico, he asked an agent for a written
report on expenditure of funds with which he had been entrusted,
The agent prepared the report but did not get it to the embassy in
time for the case officer to carry it back to Cuba with him. In
that instance, the field case officer sent the agent's original
report direct to headquarters by pouch without photographing it,
possibly because hé was hurrying to cet it into a departing pouch,
The procedure is noted as unusual, : :

’ 9, The code clerks assigned to Cuban official missions
abroad are all members of the DSE but while in the field are
subordinate to the chief of the DGI field station, When a code
clerk is required, the DGI asks the DSE to supply one. Ef Is
not known whether the code clerk also handles the normal Foreign
Ministry coded traffic and, if he does, whether he uses the same
 

 

-4-

codes for it as for the DGI. To all intents and purposes a cade
clerk abroad is a member of the DGL :

10, - Radio communication between field stations and
headquarters. in Havana ts almost never used and is regarded as -
_Strictly an emergency measure, although field stations have -."
radio equipment (type tinknown) for use if needed. DGI headquarters
receives alméét no.radio.messages from field stations. The DGE
field station in Mexico has a plan for emergency radio communi-
cations with Havana to relay messages through the Dominican
Republic if normal radio transmission direct to Havana is
interrupted. This arrangement, however, is only a plan; no
implementation of it has ever been attempted, .as far as is known,
and it is extremely doubtful that relay facilities of any kind
actually exist in the Dominican Republic which could be used in

an emergency,
C/WHC/ =

 

ine

eae ne

 
