13-OOO0 Que ssiereirith atest satan: cn EI morn snes wm ee se nee ae a

 

 

i

a
4
4

 

oo.

28 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 27 February 1964

$
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone,.

Mr. Bruce Cheever was also present for Item 1.

1... Cuba

The Special Group approved the following infiltration/exfiltration
and/or caching and resupply operations: Numbers 411, 3121, 415, 422,
431, 3126, 432, 423, 416, 433, 434, and 3122, with the proviso that
in regard to Number 434, a double agent operation, the cache would
contain money and medicine but no weapons.in case the Cubans decide
to terminate the operation and publicize the cache.

The four sabotage missions, specifically Numbers 414, 3111, 424,
and 3119, were again placed in abeyance pending, eventual resolution .
by higher authority of the entire problem of higher noise level
operations. —

 

 

 

7 ~ PSE ESET ST we : fF W. can
ae

cerned

Peter Jessuy

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Vance
Mr. McCone

Please see special minute

 

for addicional items.

Ut
 

3 April 1964

MEMORAND! NDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Meeting of the Special Group, 2 April 1964
PRESENT: Mr. “Bundy, Mr.. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.
: Mr. Desmond FitzGerald was present for Items 1 and 2.

Mr. John Waller was present for Item 3.
Colonel Ralph D. Steakiey. was present for Item 4.

 

  
 
  

he Cuba - Proposed Operations during April 1964.

“In discussing the proposed Cuban operations for the month of
/ “April 1964 and three separate papers submitted to all members for
noting, the following conclusions were reached: The five infiltra-
-tien/exfiltration operations were approved as were the five caching
‘operations, However, the five sabotage proposals were tabled.

 

 

Referring to the paper entitled, "Status of Sabotage and Raiding
oe “Capability against Cuba," Mr. FitzGerald emphasized the. economic and
| nok ,' Morale aspects of maintaining this potential and the influences of

| a : deterioration when it remains in stand-by status. . Mr. Bundy then

: stated that the time was overdue for submitting to higher authority
the entire question of covert operations against Cuba. The problem
of autonomous exile groups and their potential for conducting oper-
“x.ations on their own and the momentum of these groups even if support
' should be cut off was also discussed. It was clear that the groups
headed by Artime and Ray constitute a considerable threat.

» ° Mr. Bundy indicated that next week he would call a meeting with
higher authority and the Secretaries of Defense and State. Mr.

. PitzGeraid would outline the current status of operations against

. Cuba, and it was hoped that definite policy lines could be determined
for future covert activity against Castro.

 

al

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

The paper, | was

os - “approved. announced that a solution to the slight
- oe , , Please see special minute
for additional items. :

 

 

 

 

 

 
24 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Special Group Meeting, 20 February 1964

PRESENT: . Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

 

 

/ 96 _
H .L.The "Proposed Covert Funding of the
i | was approved by the Special G 5

 

  

The previously considered review program papers on France,
Japan, Tibet, Taiwan, and China also were approved.)

 

The minutes of the Special Group meeting of 13 February 1964
were modified at the request of Mr. Vance in the following context:
In paragraph one under “Cuba - Covert Activities," subheading
Sabotage, the phrase "he fully supported the paper under discussion"
has been substituted for "his attitude had turned to a harder line."

 

Peter Jessup
Distribution
Mr. Johnson

_... Mr. Vance
~~ Mr. McCone -

   

8.

ee Special Minutes
for additional item

 
13-00000

    
  
  
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
    
   

On Covert Economic Activities, paragraph 3.a. is
part of the present program. Psragraphs 3.b. aad c.
are parce of an overall blacklisting problem which remains
to be explored.

On Encouraging Dissidence Among Factions, the

consensus was to intensify these activities.

Actions against Cuban Subversion in Latin America,
paragraphs 1 and 2: A good look should be taken at this
type of activity and a determination should be made ona
country-by-country and case-by-case basis.

On the last paragraph of the paper, it was decided ~
that these efforts constitute work in progress with the
exception of shipping surveillance which is under active
study by the Department of Defense. A paper on this
problem Will be ready next week. It was understood that
this was an expression of members’ opinion on types of
action but that specific operational proposals would be
submitted to the Special Group as heretofore.

 

Mr. Bundy then asked Mr. Mann to prepare papers covering
the major issues of Caribbean surveillance, the blacklisting
of firms trading with Havana, covert actions, and types of
retaliation.

Review Programs

   
      
   
      
    
    

 
 

‘On the review programs for Japan, France, Tibet, Taiwan,
and China, it was agreed that the papers as prepared were the
most useful way to present the material to members. Mr. Vance
indicaced he had a number of questions in depth but that he would
not take the time at this meeting. Mr. McCone then directed that.
the area specialists would be made available at Mr. Vance's con-
venience to answer any questions he might have. Mr. Bundy a
concluded that since a’time factor was not involved, formal approval 4
of these papers could be made at a future meeting. Mr. Johnson ‘
remarked that State had already registered its approval.

 

  
  

  

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Vance
Mr. McCone

 
 

i
Re
|
i
i
i.
1
i

 

 

 

31 January 1964 .

KEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP

SUBJECT: Proposed Cuban Operations for February 1964

Special Group menbers approved by telephone the following
infileretion/esfileration operations proposed for February:
Bumbere 411, 415, 421, 422, 423, 425, 3121, end 3126.

Cperations involving sabotage (umbers 414, 424, 3111, and
3112) were not considered ty Group aezbere pending en overall
review of Cuben operations, now completed but nat yet studied.

Se:

Peter Jaseup

Diecribution ;
Mr. Johnson

- Me. Vance |
. te. HeCona .

 
re ee a at Sone Does

~ 7 : i . SECRET aa nee . |

Rae

EVES ONLY. 7 February 908 Vil,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

   

SUBJECT: Minutes of the Special Group Meeting, 13 February 1964

PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Jonnson, Mr. Vance, and Mr. McCone.

General Maxwell D. Taylor, Mr. Thomas A. Mann, and
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald were present for Item 1.

Lt. General Marshall A. Carter was present for
Items 1 and 2.

1. Cuba - Covert Activities.

A lengthy discussion took place on covert action potential
to weaken the Castro regime. The first part of the discussion
constituted an exchange of opinion of a general nature.

The following points were emphasized: Continued covert
action received support although divergence on the level of
activity was registered. There was a consensus that the present
level of operations was no longer effective in attaining the
basic objective of toppling Castro but harassment might keep
the regime off balance. There was an area Of disagreement on
proofs of effectiveness of current and past measures.

Mr. Bundy summarized the dilemma by noting that the high
risk, dangerous operations are the rewarding oneg and the low
noise, innocuous. operations prove to be unrewarding.

Mr. Mann emphasized that considerably more howework had
to be completed before the next OAS meeting (presently unscheduled).
Mr. Bundy indicated that a Cabinet level meeting with higher
authority would have to be held eventually to determine how far
the United States was willing to go. Mr. Bundy turned the discussion
to the specific Department of Defense paper.

On Sabotage, Mr. Vance stated that he could speak for
the Secretary of Defense; his attitude had turned to a harder
line.

On Harassment of Free World Shipping to Cusr, para-
graph 2.a. was considered work in progress. On | paragraph 2.6.
the attitude was negative, particularly as to suips of other
than Cuban flag.

 

SECRET
EVES ONLY

 
13-09

 

000

wee:

 

   

a

 

 

  

 

 

, CE the information: obtained in the "T" and "C" serie

   

 

   
 
 
  

cual missions
3 {b} chose flown
al changes in aitituce of planes
te under surveillaace of Soviet radar; amd (4) other radical variatioas
route, .

 

Mr. Johnson listed 14 BOX TC? missions on which Scate Department
seeded further study before approval would be given. These missions are
ws: Jane, Paula, Ruby, Cliff, Alf, c, Mervin, Frank, Dwight,
Kari, Lioyd, Everett, Hugh, and Caivin. ‘the Special Group requested a
coordinated position on these missions as to their necessity aad whether
they can be run without a significant or provocative pattern cnange while
under Soviet radar surveillance. This coordinated position is to be
presented to the Special Group at its next meeting. All other missions

‘ia the JRC forecast were approved. ]

  

   

  

7 wo —— 74

   

Recornaissance Forecast.

 

¢ Tne NRO forecast (paper dated 20 December 1963) was epproved as >
‘presented, General Carter gave a resume of the excellence and uniqueness

 

 

-e North Vietnam Working Grovo. 9¢ .

Mr. Gohnson reported that the Interdepartmental Working Group on
North Vietnam Cperations has about concluded its report. Ali members
of the Special Group agreed that the report should be critically noted
at the highest levels of the Government. It should then be reviewed by.
“ the Special Group and presented to higher authority: for decision.

   

 

 

_ nd 2
Bik f
, joe
An hes
Distribution

Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone : ,

 

 

 

 
   
 

 

 

Fo Pee cat onan rnes Didone

 

   

2 January 1964
a :

MEMORANDUM FOR TEE RECGRD
SUBJECT: Minutes of the Epacial Group Meeting, 2 January 1964.
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Jchnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Ceneral Carter.

Mr. FitzGeraid was present for Iteus 1
Coionel Steakley was present for Items

i

 

‘1. Cuba - vvosoneaécteenston eatin tration Onerations Bu
January 1964 .

The infiltration/exfiltration operations in the January 1964
forecast were approved. Three sapotage operations, numbers 3111,
414, and 417, were approved ty the Speciai Group subject to the
concurrence of higher authority. Decision was deferred on a sabotage
operation, ‘number. 413, against the petroleum refinery and storage
facilities'near Santiago. Mr. Johnson said that before he could
exercise judgment as to the importance of this operation he must have
an analysis as to what effect the total or partial destruction of
this refinery would have on Cuban petroleum production and economy
. generally.’ The Group agreed that such an analysis shoulc be prepared
and be pr sented along with this sabotage operation for Special Group :
action at its next meeting. .

  
 

 

2. Cuba - Infiltration/Exfiltration Operations During December 1963.

Mr. FitzGerald reviewed the accomplishments during the month of
December: He emphasized a successful exfiltration activity of a
recently activated ratline. This is.the second time in two months
that this ratline has successfully exfiltrated ageats in danger of
arrest. He also gave a resume of the underwater cemolition operation |
(number 3117) which damaged a Cuban FT boat (Soviet-type P-6). Also,
during the same operation self-destroying anti-bcat mines were placed
in the harbor entrance to. inhibit pursuit. -Cze of the mines was detected
xvesulting in a Cuban government directive to all ports to take precaution~
ary measures,

ft

  
 

| SECRET

PM
 

 

 

10 January 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: _ Minutes of the Special Group Meeting, 9 January 1964
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

The Attorney General and Mr. FitzGerald were present
for Items 1 and 2. : :
o

’ Colonel Steakley and Mr. Kiefer were present for Item 3,

1. Cuba - Consideration of Sabotage Operations.

Mr. FitzGerald requested the Special Group to approve a sabotage
operation against the petroleum refinery and storage facilities near
Santiago. The proposal was disapproved.

Another sabotage proposal was made by Mr. FitzGerald against a:
sawmill located on the north coast of Oriente Province. The attack
.is to be conducted by a commando team which will place incendiaries :
and demolitions at critical locations throughout the installation. oN
_ A second target, which may be attacked as security factors permit, is ‘
a large floating. crane which has been anchored in ‘the area and which
"appears to be used in loading ore from a near-by mine. This operational
proposal with its ‘two targets was approved subject to the concurrence of | -
. higher authority. Also, it was the consensus of the Group that the i
views of higher authority should be obtained on what ‘is desired generally ~
in the field of sabotage activities in Cuba. -

2. . Cuba - Proposed Clandestine Intelligence Operations.

: The Department of the Army requested approval for two operations:
(a) the establishment of a clandestine net using the Second National
-Front of the Escambray, and (b) the infiltration of a radio operator
' .agent into Cuba. CIA has agreed to provide support for both these.
‘proposals. The two operations were approved. : .

, See special minutes ~
‘ a for additional item

 
 

 

 

aa

eel. vo et : ~ i ~ 96 aot tos os He,

3. [Revised January ‘Peripheral Reconnaissance Schedule.

; The JRC paper dated 8 January 1964 was approved as amended.

No change was made in the following BOX TOP wissions: Jane, Paula,
Ruby, Eric, Marvin, Frank, Dwight, Lloyd, Karl, Everett, and Hugh.
Operations Cliff and Alf were amended resulting in the cancellation
of Operation Cliff. Mission Calvin's track was changed permitting
it to approach the Latvian coast no closer than 25 nautical miles
rather than 20 miles as originally proposed.

. ,

Mr. McCone raised the question of the increasing number of flights
authorized by the JRC. Colonel Steakley said that the number of sup-
porting flights required for every reconnaissance platform was largely
responsible for the increase. He also pointed out that there is
currently a review of COMOR requirements for Cuba being prepared to
, determine whether they can be eased in order to permit a considerably.
-». lessened operational schedule.)

96

b : [Monthly Report No. 12 on North Vietnam.

..This report was noted by the Special Groups] .

Sy ep
die Stel

pau Eckel

Distribution
Mr. Johnson . ;
Mr. Gilpatric , : o “4
Mr. McCone .

 

 

 

 
