13-00000

f . : ’
SECRET

a)

it in New Orleans ~ must be considered of
great significance in the light of the
pathological evolution of OSWALD's passive/
aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill
General WALKER early in April 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

 

Cuban revolution which is directly trace-

 

able as far back as his Marine Corps.

 

service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

 

warning and threat, given to AP corres-

pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether

there was any formal mandate, or even

security service contact with OSWALD

by the Cubans or the Russians - was an act

of singular irresponsibility and under no

circumstances was excusable as retorsion

for what the Cuban emigres were doing during

the summer of 1963.
CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA. ANA, ‘CALIFORNIA,
EARLY 1959 (?)

3. The testimony of. Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion
of germinal significance to any review of the background of
Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO's Cuba. DELGADO was probably the closest peer group

   
+ S ECRET
member to OSWALD during his specialist training period
at El Toro Marine Corps Base December 1958 - September 1959.
The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:

"OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in
touch with Cuban diplomatic officials in
this country, which DELGADO at first took |
to be 'one of his lies, but later
believed. '"2

10. Actually DELGADO’ s testimony says a lot more of
possible operational. significance than is reflected. by the
language of the report, and its implications do not appear
to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,
the record of the beginning of OSWALD's relationship with
the Cubans starts with a question mark.

ll. The period was one of transition in U.S. - Cuban
relations after CASTRO's takeover. OSWALD, and DELGADO at
the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-
larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-
fied: . .

"... I didn’t know what to tell him, so

I told him-the best thing that I know was to

 

2

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President John F. KENNEDY (Washington, 1904), hereafter
cited as Report, p. 687.

8

SECRET
ow SECRET oo -
--- -- grow until there has been a full disclosure _
by these governments of ali elements of
OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union
and his contacts in Mexico City. The
Warren Commission report should have left a.
wider “window" for this contingency. ghat,
indeed, was the opinion at the working level,
particularly in the counterintelligence com=
ponent in the CIA in 1964. As was indicated
by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the
Warren Commission, CIA would continue to
regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as
still open.* : : :
c. In the absence of additional or new
elements of "credible" evidence, there are
“nuances” in the record that emerge as note-
worthy, in the light of other conclusions.
These are. reviewed and summarized below, item-
by-item.
da. CASTRO's warning and threat of

7 September 1963 - if OSWALD did indeed read

x

 

1

Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.
KENNEDY. Hearings Before the President's Commission on the
Assassination of President KENNEDY (Washington, 1964),
hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol. V., pp. 120 ~- 129. See

especially p. 124 -""Mr. Helms: 'yes. I would assume
the case could never be closed.'"

® 6
(f . . . .
SECRET

“ of the review, admittedly heavily using the 20 --..20 quality
of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary:

a. There is no increment of credible
evidence, applying this phrase strictly, of
Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence
or security service involvement in the as-
sassination to what was developed and con-
sidered by the Warren Commission and its
staff. The Commission's finding that .
Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of
President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did
them in alone and of his own determination
stands.

b. "Credible evidence" that would
upset or significantly modify this judgement
did (and does) not exist in Washington. But
such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or
Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the Warren
Commission wére minimal in quantity and
quality, designed to cover up any admissions
of knowledge of, or connection with, OSWALD
which might be related directly or indirectly
with the assassination. Therefore, the belief
that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/or
DGI) connection with’ OSWALD will persist and

5
13-00000

eG , Ss

t : . oO
SECRET. -
"Bitterly denouncing what he called

recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

tory, Castro said: ‘We are prepared to

fight them and answer in kind. U.S. leaders

should think that if they are aiding terror-

ist plans to eliminate Cuban leaders, they

themselves will not be safe.'

“© ... World affairs ... seemed to be

entering a more peaceful climate a few days

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

"'The U.S. is always ready to negotiate

and make promises which later it will not honor.

This has happened to promises made during the

October crisis. They have been broken as can

be seen with new attacks.

"But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

erisis than October's ...'"

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September,
used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference
to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real
significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated re~
write (9 September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted
any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO's remarks.

®

3
13-00000

¢t . : . . ’
SECRET

‘“ The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed. the HARKER

story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the
paper (9 September 1963, page B~4) and reworded the content
of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po-
litical aspects - in particular, highlighting the. GOLDWATER
elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States
leadership in the middle of the piece. .

7. There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY
assassination that this CASTRO interview was considered in
following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission
and its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed
Headguarters attention to the AP story very shortly after
the Dallas killing. More important, the interview appears
to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consiid-
eration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba. There is no evidence
in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission
staff itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview
in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no
evidence in the files that anything along these lines was
stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassination. |

8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's
request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the
assumption that as an avid newspaper reader - which we know
from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

. 4
13-00000

Sztcorxuda

to his and the Cawmissioa's needs and then decice how
much will go into the classified racord.

Raymond G. setca

Attachzent

BECRET:
104-40429-10094

 

ed

SECRET

 

23 May 1975

HEMORANDUM FOR: DC/OPS

SUBJECT t Review of Selected Items in the
Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding
Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban
Involvement in the
John F. KENNEDY Assassination

1. The attached review and summary was written at
the express request of Mr. David W. Belin as a follow-
up to Quastion 3 of his letter to the Agency of
15 April 1975,

2. The results - as I have already told him - add .
nuance, not evidence, to what the Warren Commission and
its staff had laid before them in 1964 on this subject.
The results of tha review are stipulated in paragraph 8
of the Attachment. There seamed to be no reason to
attach coples of the casa reports from the file to this..
summary. These can be made available promptly, however, .
on request. This summary- does not deal with press,. ..
magazine and books that dealt with the subject during.

he period after the assassination.

3. My recommendation is to do with this paper as
we did with the earlier one. requested by Mr.’ Belin on
the unidentified man: let him read the entire s

“and then decide how much of it, if any, is pertinent

“SECRET

appar en ay 23 323)
t . : ‘
SECRET

[23 May 1975]

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the
. Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding Allega-
tions of CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the
John F. KENNEDY Assassination

REFERENCE : Letter by David W. Belin to
Mr. E. Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,

paragraph 3 (Regarding Public Statement
by CASTRO, etc.), attached

a

BACKGROUND

1. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,
Fidel CASTRO appeared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in
Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to an informal
interview by the Associated Press correspondent,
Daniel HARKER.

2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,

8 September, and was in print throughout the country on

Monday, 9 September. {here can be no question from the
facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

expected, and his agreement to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

_ Message on the xecord in the United States.

ry
¢ : . ‘
.¥ : SECRET _-

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of
topics but dealt principally with Amexican political
leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex-
coriated in extraordinarily provocative fashion
("\... KENNEDY is a cretin;" " ... the BATISTA of his
times eee the most opportunistic: American President of
all time ...").

4. The interview also contained an uncomplimentary
reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing
the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in
the replay by United States newspapers like the
New York Times and Washington papers, with a result that
CASTRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

5. In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided

until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story

appeared in the principal morning paper, the Times-Picayune,

“on Monday, 9 September, page 7, under a three-column head~

line: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says U.S. Leaders
Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under the
HARKER by-line:
"Havana (AP) ~ Prime Minister

Fidel Castro said Saturday night: 'U.S.

leaders would be in danger if they helped

in any attempt to do away with leaders of ...

Cuba.' 7
