74-0000

 

 

NOTE: ° lso included

information had received
: ’ y duns. said that he
had pcen. providing. information on ZIMERI. to the
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He Claimed that two Americans were involved
‘with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miami.’ - qu,’ -|-did not mention names but
described one of the-Americans as about six feet.
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

  

 

 

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for. information by President LAUGERUD:
a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. Inv the event ZIMERI is not in the United
., State's legally, deport him to Guatemala.

_c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
United States for possible use in
- “Guatemala?

d. :Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-.
tial treatment by U.S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as
‘to purchase arms and ammunition for.
shipment to Guatemala?

e. .Any information on Robert and Gerald
| HEMMING? .

 

5. On 19 June 1976 | ] ‘advised.
“that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State -

 

‘Mepartment. . ..

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent
Mariations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HENNING.

7. From the name, physical description, activity, and:
edllieged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMIING
is identical with the subject of Office of Security file
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
swho is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who. as

  

“Nay 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation |

 

‘company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
“Miami, Florida.. ;

(b- CIA ewpleuee.

 

(2) = cid Compeneuk™
> oa NN ass

 

 
Tra 10137-10304

vom,

 

 

ll June 1976

 

  

“MEMORANDUM. FOR: thief, Security Analysis Group —

‘SUBJECT : HENMING, Gerald Patrick
- SFF429 229
1. “On: 9 Sune:-1969- Ww an

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.
W Iwas referred tothe writer, who is holding the HEMMING
file. When ww. {contacted the writer, w__j advis
is the action officer for a cable from
reporting an assassination plot on the =
‘LAUGERUD of .Guatemala. ° \“ fwas unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick’ HEMMING’ and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file’ .
on HEMMING, |: .tWas requested to alert wwfA and JMWAVE ;
to the below-mentioned cable and o_.provid i i
scopy of the report. coming in from

‘contacted Staff and‘ Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

  

        
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

   
  
    

th a copy of the cable.
‘dated 8 June 1976), °°
the cable reflects that

ree, with the know ge of
ided/ 7

uo 2. - y
(CIN 944357, ° -
Which is attached

  

   

 

 

; According to the informa-
“stion the plot was to‘have been carried out on 15 September
. > howéver,* one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio

/ Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
~ of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
“ xin Miami since August 1975, . .

 

n 3. According to the report, the National Liberation
» SMovement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
sind ZIMEBRI in turn was involved with two Americans, brothers,
obert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING., The HENMING brothers
ssisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
ere flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
sClaims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
-Miami and New Orleans. :

  
  
    
 
   
  

 

re Chk Evil oy een

E2 INPDET

2 ~ CPA Oepment™
° ” CL BY 063994

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

on

8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agenc
‘the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMVAVE. 0a
Hiewivis Gecaslons since ai leasi the daily 1266%s, NOMUAG
had claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has been
none. .The most. recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
-affiliation was. in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

 

“to the Drug Inforcement: Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMINC

is:a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SFH353 459),
aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a
long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In
the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter
Claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and
Central American activities which he named the International
Anti-Communist- Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers.of whom have never been fully established) was
naned the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING. ~~ -

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot
involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

smenorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

‘1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
“and an extract from a. book published in early 1976 written by
‘Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John” Fy “Kennedy

‘Is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to Link the Agency

 

with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,
Jr, to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to. Loran Eugene

“HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
‘Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

sand that members of this unit were connected with CIA. . GARRISON
“shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
sinteresting that he did'so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.»

  

y G. Brown
Ruty Chief
Security Analysis ‘Group

 

Atts

 

 

 

 
