74-00000

* IB

} “fours vats
1, Erde

 

COTUATL
DIeATCH

 
    

   
 
  

bucmed ty hold fuse iblustona glout ie hee
politics, Te also centioned that he had}.
watchod while ho ese viokbune as a durin, éforeperntiened throes
he was alsu critical of the bur cccretic eke tteaud ait
Rucela and blared dt on “tuckepors ine anes the effieltc. Els
converuvaticon indleated thit he waa very on.m of the antivturitien
one encountered in huvsias

 

e sere soten or Beiies

    

  

em pointed out to the writer thet shertiy arter dinner wao finiched,
visitore arrived on the scene, including *ubject's nistress, This cut down.
on tha tines which cwisfelt he could devote to elicitation or intommaticn
on the more pertinent topics. further conversution with “énby the writer, -
however, lead ua to the conclusion stated in paragraph lL. Any change in
this opinion and/or acquisition. of further inform.tion thought to be of —
significance, which is ortained throu. the writer's meetin: with Subject,
will be reported, Otherwise, we will conpider interest in subject ag a
potential sewkce as terminated at that tine.

“} _

19 Docexder 1960

Distribution:
Origé& 2—we 4-6
Bad

 

 

 

 

 
 

$04-40173-10051)

 

Le eehesasindh ic athieeaniostomsen acemtinitadsemnconh cntan acre PRS Sarwan ANA Ces atte BORA Lg OM ote

 

 

teres carers

 

        
    

     
   
  
   

sybee ASh
OLSEN CS §

! fe: Chas

2b Tle ee

 

 

 

408 Vhter, Wo ‘
: | Plepel]
InbO8 EOL ATA!
OA
FHC Acting Chief of snc ur boot ;
eS 60 Bycenber 1065" Pe, be,
1, UBIECTs . “eel i tS . Age *
. sunt Report on Marvin SRANECR, dob 9 Ma; May 19d .

wat bow Sora Citys,

Woy Ir form tion “Varked for Indexing

ACTIONS

    
  
  

,
(eee a

  

a aS SS

References [ovca-8769, 29 November 1960 (oars 4) .
22

 

 

1. Suste’ entertained Subject at dinner on 29. ‘November 1960 aé his flat
for the purpose of assosorent and elicitation of blovruphic informstion. UNE
evaluation seemed to indicate yhat Subjeut is only of marginal potential value
to CiA- ho writer plans to weet Subject through ¢wavat a later date to
make @ personal agsesenent, but it ia not expvoted tagt Subject will jrove

. to ba more interesting than le already indicated, Ao previously nenticnsd,
Sure bas been instructed to continue te keep the contact alive but not to .
devote undue tima to it. For the sake of the record we aubnit’ the follesing
information on subject's backeround os §& supplement to that already reported
in’reforence. (Please note that there are some dates in the following wnioh
are contradictory to those reported in reference, Thosa cite below should

be considered to be accurate, ji ‘

a. Subject served with the Marine Corps, Aare a stostinnto on jet aircraft
im both Korth Carolina (probably Cherry Point NCAS) and in the soot
Indige, He didn't care for service life becausa of tho discipline, |
rogimentation, etc. After being diucharged in 1955 he remained in tha
United states, doing nothing for about ond seard He atbendud Farleiga
Dickinson for one year (150-57), but left arter that time because he |
found it lesu than satisfactory or atioulatinr. "In 1957 he cane to
Europe and toured around the continent. uring the lattor part of 1957
and in 1958, he mado two 3-month trips on visitor's vinas to the Soviet
Union where he lived with his uncle's family in Kinek. While there he
did attend some classes at the University, but ms not a regietered
‘etulent. He atated that he haa several cousins there about hie ace.
From 1953 until the present he has been. studying at the Slavic Institute
here, end intends to take his examiration in dlavio Studies in January
1961, We will takd: his exanination in Enxlish and Ruselan, because
he hag not mastered Danish well enough to take it in Danish as norczally
required, he hae agreed verbally with the Institute's authoritios
that ahould he receive nie decree, he will not undestake to obtain a
teaching position in Hussian studies in vennazk.

“6. Subject stated that his future plano are a bit uncertain, tut
that hé will probably return to the States to teach Kunaian at the college
level, He would, however, not be opposed to going back to the Soviet
Union for further otudies tuere. “nether idea which cppuals to sub wect
would be to go to (hed) Ching ror study. He toldquxc that te had been
to the American zabaosy to diveusa the pussidilities of auch 4 trip.

{A cheek with the conwular nuction revealed that several poople lad
approached ite officers for advice on such cattere, but it coal: not be
ditertinsd wreethor one ef tisa ay teva wo) Sublet anddeste: to
ee eF UTR be bed uteaoe ed tea abe the be AB tee ade meh wi. 3o
trav wafer Uvalde there wt at was vblerats Seite atated that sucgect
apparently coneidyred , olme: to ching to wlasy dbecaune ho tele thst
perhaps the peoply there "ilve clever to hasu", oF aorua to that wefocks
Dubject amficated tuat a boorta alterrotive eould be to renal s ieore in
Copents un for burthur etuiy, but Poit tiat teas eculd Lo ratacr uniikelys

 

 

ported Uat srbiech say either net vers pobitiondly

Gey nd
eenactouea ars Pato F taaky ssi termed steed bee Amegagaa polatirak eo ent
al Bye yowt tae) te walt See abe es Say net te ba be bate eed

 

rn rr SO a

 
