 

 

 

 

 

  

9 May 1977
SUBJECT: Cubana Flights

 

1. The ‘Mexico Station surveillance of Cubana flights in

1963 consisted of a(Gnilateral) group (LIFIRE) and two separate
groups (LITEMPO and LIENVOY) handled (jointly with the Mexican’,
Goverment

 

 

 

a. LIFIRE was handled by Robert Feldmann. These sources
observed arrivals and departures of Cubana flights. They
reported any unusual incidents and provided copies of the
flight manifests. This travel was routinely reported to
_ Washington by cable (JMGIN Cuban Travel). A copy of the
‘manifests was sent later by dispatch to Washington with
_ the same reporting crypt.

b. LITEMO and LIENVOY were handled (on the policy level)
by the COS
I made the uarrypIcK-up Meetings WIth Career Agent Jerémy
K. Benadum for LITEMPO and Staff Agent Arnold F. Arehart
for LIENVOY. LITEMPO was a surveillance team
They operated a concealed

caniera photographed incoming passengers'
passports from the Cubana flights. No outgoing passports
were photographed because the facilities for departures
were located at the other end of the airport and not
feasible for the number of available agents at our disposal.
Further, the purpose of the passport camera operation was
to identify the SSriets arriving via Havana. They also
provided us with a list of the incoming passengers on the
Cubana flights. (50-6-91/4 Job 67-200/50, Box 13). LIENVOY
was a telephone tap operation against the Cuban Embassy and
provided transcripts of conversations with the Cubana Office
and the Mexican Airport Control Office.

 

 

2, I checked with Robert Feldmann who said he thought all of the
Cubana flights were passenger flights. A review of the transcripts for
the Commercial Office of the Cuban Embassy for late 1963 indicates that they
were shipping large quantities of automobile parts, foods and medicines
from Mexico City to Havana by Cubana Airlines. Statements to clients on
what day they could send cargo and packages by Cubana led me to the
conclusion that all the flights to Mexico City from Havana could carry
passengers but some of the flights out were basically cargo (with the
Capability of also carrying a few passengers). From manifests, it appears
that Cubana made a flight from Havana to Mexico City and return every
other day. There was a flight on 22, 25, and 27 November 1963. The
22 and 25 November flights carried passengers. The 27th November flight
carried 75 passengers to Mexico and returned with LOPEZ and it is believed

‘a plane load of cargo. (LITEMPO passenger list attached).
