74-0000

Lyte

URE Wr

DISPATCH eac¢ RB ;

caniition of thelr phetermiphic laborstary, props of untentael percssze)
eaintaining tals fecility. ibe oolowel gxve an an iLicatretio the felicvirgs
VOR @igh$ rolls ef 35ae fils tesa by Pey wo used the

 

 

TwOresacr, éyvelLopzent.
Frere oe Me erento eldt tke ae fie feet be en five ei taal tn Fie
éeraloper which destroyed the exsirs bateh of fila. Tee ca.czeal paced the
Possibility cf beving his SLs doveloped and pristel wy the Staticn, Fie Chief

Yootographis procedures 5
Soycher 1983- Forwevied ao ettachrent A te the training repors on Sgt. Po Dell,

3 Leute Pe BARCKICKA comleted thirty-seven houre of phstagrepals
tretaing. Ponarted as attachamnt B ie he training report.

Sh. ORL
As Qn 12 October 1965, the Deputy Chlef of Ctetian instructed PARMIEE

by Om 17 Ostober 1963, PARSE presented @-cns our cparetiam) photo
to the Station enss officera. Tho triefing commisted of the

grvegale briefing
folleving subigets: General paotegrayhie leborstory support came at the Station;
eluniestine photography using body eenbealuant devices: yhotagragkis,

USE PET OVS EDILON
REPLACES #D8eed,

$028 S1-8A AND 95 79
MOC ARE OBMAETE.

 

maa ts
 

‘oa-t0at 0140

    
     
      
   
  

  

ASFEATON

SECRET
Paotograghic Brench i
Caief, Wi Division - "eur ora mm 3

 

  

we ride te abn de

 

Chtef, KURIOF  Attnr

    

 

 

Galef of Etation, Mexico City

 

  

Actions Hone; for your information.

   
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
  

 

Presented below is a reporting of the opcreticnal end support activities ; 1
Gregory D. PARMJE for the above aantioned period. |

« GBERAL SROUARY OF ACEIVITIES

{
Teo photographic operatioml assiguemts vere requested ef PASRITE '
during the menth of October, Station support consisted of the following supp :
The vervicing of three KURIC? requeste for infornation and materiale. MACHARY '
vas supported on two audio operations at hotels im Merice City. PASTE was

ce Saat ate

i
4
E
n

Bans. ‘wo trips are pending for Noveuber or Daceuber, ons to Master,
end the other to Veracruz.

3> RADIOS

|
- Ae On 10 October 1963, at the request of the Eubaesy Military Attact
Office, PAREEE conferred with Colonel Rubsy end the Clef af Statics roguntiny
the isprovenant of the erwy photographie Laboratary. Colom) Hubey a=ticnsd
esveral serious protias concerning this facility, 1.8.) the general rundran
é

 

(Contines4)
Keeochaantat As stated in para DAR 5B

Distribution :
E> eamtor wfatt : :

1D w/o att

   
74-00000

    
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
    

3 Be On 2 Cetober 1965, PAREM photapayhes 50h trusses, using the
2 Recoréak to fulfill a aonthly otaff D represent fcr the Colef ef Station,
Maxteo City. :
6. Cz eUR ELT
‘ Ae Basher of operational target curvays completed during the amths 0.
f B. Gouwhor of TU tripe camlsted curing the anmnth: 0,
6. Photographic equipment fasesd for qparatiansl uest 0.
B Fhrotegraghic oquipesnt repaired: 0.

R. Ruuter of poople trained in shotograghis techstquen/equtysemt: 2,
, Te RGOGRELON FATES Os Jobs EocsorD
A. Bleck anf Waiter 12 Jobe.
1, otal petutas 5,102.

2. S$au wterofiias 800 fect.

3. 33am essucttess 60.
&. 129 oize reli filet 2
Sreot file (all types)e 0.

6 Miogelisnsous? Oe»

B Colors © jets.
C. KURIOP Statian Support
le Sueret writing! 3 msscages incoming using 37 ceveleper
2. Wiapge emi cenlss & letters opened and suscaled.
3. Ghoaiea) Thxvesagints 0.

Se ciel Sedge ae

ww
s
