13-00000 .
re os “CONFIDENTIAL

.

 

 

 

 
 

13-0000,

 

 

 

4
et,

 

 
13-00000
ae , SECRET

SUBJECT: —= Government Information

pane. eon as wee pee nnn

 

 

 

 

~ 4

L also to the conduct of Us foreign relations that the USG is seen (|
| “as abiding by its Agreements with foreign services aS well as its pf
{| own laws on n_the release of information... _..-——~ © nen
r eed Vy
{
{

  

; ae (s) Pinall the importance of maintaining good —
. relations with/ | cannot be ove

| *Fesult of our valuable relationship with our
counterparts, thé USG.receives.a large volume of _finishe
7 intelligence. Due to our shrinking resources; “much of this
f information would not be available to U.S. policy makers were it
( ‘ snot provided Additionally, we work together
i around the- woxid on joint collection

hee activities cover the full spectrum of USG.intéTligence 7
i
|
:

 

 

* priorities. Finally, there are several critical collection

(\ efforts vital to the USG where we do not have the entrée to

", collect. intelligence independently. In_these cases, we rely
entirely on the continued good will of to

} provide us with the assistance necessary t6 meet U-S- pee
policymakers‘ needs. :

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

Mo
' 49. (Ss) In light of all the above, CIA submits the
¢ following two proposals for the Board's consideration... Fixst-—
the Board could postpone these two documents from release for a “* | :
short period (we propose 10 months) at which tim CIA can S|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

° reassess its relationship with It is possible .
that the relationship with CIA ould change so that -_/'|

A it would be possible to seek. ‘their consent for release in full eS}
ii, However, -should th ent of jata
| ') future date and[" object € the release of the Jy
» {, documents, we wow ask— the Board seriously consider any |
iis“ negative reaction from [ in its deliberations and~ \

+ abide by their desires. A second option would be for CIA to

i| - coordinate with the JFK Staff a substitution or some sort of

Py s es aes for immediate release. This

a summa wo t that the letter came from the

\ 4 but would reveal what the subject of the :
\ 4 etter was. This would avoid the problem of having to go the

im to seek their consent, which we would havesto do even

de in the case.of redactions. oo”. i : :

1 13. (U) Should the Board reject these proposals, CIA is

| willing to work with the Board to reach another mutually

\ agreeable solution. We strongly believe, however, that any

| approach which suggests that the U.S. Government may ignore its
obligations and commitments to foreign governments would

| Sericasly undermine the vigorous.and healthy diplomatic as well
jas intelligence relationships that we currently enjoy. :

peat nanan nmnrintnmenmmnnornn ta Cea cee
2

these are CIA documents and with whe redactions proposed by ‘they

el N as a eee

 

 

 

 

    

   
  

\
} a ee
“Sere (S)_wWith reqara“€o the “remaining

 

 

 

ee een Ss

5

my SECRET
 

13-00000 .

 

eo SECRET
SUBJECT: a Government Information
{government . As such, CIA consents to the release of these.

fa documents. with the redactions proposed bye the _Board.. ;

i

 

153. (S) Proposal for Future Coordination: With regards to’

i any stifer foreign government information that may exist in the
[ files, CIA proposes that it approach to
xequest their consent in the release of their information when it

would be appropriate to do so. Although recent events with
an rake it impossible for CIA to approach them at this \

 

 

 

5

. . JErmMe, iS may not be so with other services. In cases were CIA
believes, because of the nature of the relationship, that it
would not be possible to request the consent of the service, cra)

| proposes. that the documents.either be postponed from release” cose

1 that cIA- and Board' s staff coordinate a summary.

f 7 . ~
- Pfeowsn \,

‘Yon F. Pereira

 

Attachment

6

SECRET

 
SECRET

a nn ie Information

documents b:

 

   
  

wey
e eithe: postponéd’ for a short time or that'--

Ne ane ee a Fi te

 
 

 

 

3. (U) Legal Authorities: The procedures governing the
declassification and dissemination of foreign government
information are set out in Executive Order 12958, as well as
Director of Central Intelligence Directives (DCIDs). Executive
Order 12958 defines foreign government information as including
(1) information provided by a foreign government, or any element
thereof, with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the
information and/or the source of the information, are to be held
in confidence; or (2) information produced by the United States
pursuant to or as a result of a joint arrangements with a foreign
government, or any element thereof, requiring that the
information, the arrangements, or both, are to be held in
confidence. Id., at §1.1(d)

4. (U) Foreign government information is subject to a
classification determination under E.O. 12958, section 1.5(c).
When so classified, U.S. government agencies are obligated to
protect that information from unauthorized disclosure. The E.O.
requires that foreign government information shall either retain
its original classification or be assigned a U.S. classification
that shall ensure a degree of protection at least equivalent to
that required by the entity that furnished the information. Id.,
at 1.7(e). Furthermore, agencies are required to safeguard
foreign government information under standards that provide a
degree of protection at least equivalent to that required by the -
originating government. Id., at 4.2(g).

5. (U) Pursuant to his authority as head of the
intel) ence community to protect all classified information from
unau’ rized disclosure, the Director of Central Intelligence has
issued Directives (that is, DCIDs) setting out the procedures for
the declassification and dissemination of foreign government
information. Intelligence obtained from another government or
from a combined effort with another government, may not be
released or authorized for release without its consent. DCID 5/6
attachment -3. Furthermore, the release of intelligence that
would be contrary to agreements between the U.S. and foreign
countries is expressly prohibited. Id., at c.5.

 

6. (U) Finally, the very fact of intelligence cooperation
between the U.S. and specifically named foreign countries and
government components is classified SECRET unless a different
classification is mutually agreed upon. DCID 1/10-1. Such
infe@mation may be declassified only with the mutual consent of
the U.S. and the foreign government whose interests are involved.
DCID 1/10-1. ,

2

SECRET

 
a

(od-t0330-0060] .

 

SECRET

QW

15 October 1996

a
memorabum FOR: Assassination Records Review
: Board

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: Foreign Government Information

   

 

 

 

(We request that this memorandum be returned to CIA once the
Board has completed its deliberations on the issues discussed
below.)

1. (S) Issue: This memorandum will address CIA's position
on the review and declassification of foreign government
information that appears in the JFK collection. This issue has
come to CIA's attention because of the recent review by the JFK

 

 

Board of documents. The Agency believes it is
important to address this issue at this time because this is the
first instance that this type of Bdocument has

 

 

been reviewed by the Board and it is possible that such
information will appear again in CIA's collection. This memo
will, therefore, focus on the larger issue of a:United States

Government (USG) agency's legal obligations in the dissemination .

and declassification of foreign government information [
also aduress the § ific iss: i

  

    
   

 

 

2. (S) Conclusion: CIA does not object to the release of the
information in these six documents, but is only concerned about
protecting foreign government information. Therefore, the Agency
does not object to the release of the four CIA documents in the
redacted form sed by the Board. With regards to the

[| the Agency has no authority to unilaterally
agree to their release in any form. Pursuant to its legal
obligations, CIA ordinarily seeks the consent of the foreign
government prior to declassifying their information. (Howéver,
for réasons_ described herein, Yt-is Hot possiblé to” even séek the)

(eonsent of at thig time, nor°would it Be likely
ithat. | would give it. Rather than going_to,

against its better judgment or_requesting ‘he

eS

pen net

 

 

 

 

 

    
       

 

 
   
 

CL BY: (2224130,
CL REASON: 1.5 (d)
DECL ON: X5

DRV FM: LIA 3-82

 

 
 

13-00000

i

  
 

sy 3 (S) Coordination! |. As two of the documents.) y.s/
* at issue here are letters a pase oan Sat
lt \ CIA is legally obligatéd by E-0~ an

op ith to seek the consent of the
pete to their release,

“a

‘ithe foreign government and seeking their consent for declas- |

| indication that the U.S. is unable to protect from release their

SECRET

SUBJECT: a Government Information

the U.S. and the foreign government whose interests are involved.
DCID 1/10-1.

7,. (WU) National Security Considerations: The importance of
sucheSordination with foreign governments prior to the release
of their information cannot be overemphasized. Should CIA, or
for that matter any (USG) agericy fail to coordinate where
required, not only would it be a violation of the aforementioned
E.0. and directives, but it would chill relationships it has
developed with foreign services over the years. If such lack of
coordination became known, foreign services would hesitate to
share crucial intelligence information with CIA if they believed
it would be released, in spite of any agreements or U.S. laws to
the contrary, without their consent. Furthermore, the U.S. could
not expect foreign services to safeguard U.S. government
information that it shares with its liaison partners in order to
pursue authorized intelligence and foreign policy objectives.

 

8. (8) According to its legal obligations described herein,
CIA coordinates the dissemination and/or release of foreign
government information. Its obligation to do so is similar to
its obligation to coordinate declassification efforts with
another USG agency should the CIA possess any of that agency's
documents. For example, CIA could not declassify and release to
the public FBI information located in CIA files without
coordinating with that agency. Similarly, CIA has no authority

to unilaterally declassify foreign government documents or
information in its files.

 

comme ae

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

g
even in redacted form. The ye
ssue@ 6f coordinating with the Lis a timely

one. In most cases, CIA would not havé an objé€tion to going to !

sification. However, several events that have eccurred in the ,
last few months depict just how seriously considers any |
i

 

classified information. Based on the incidents described - oH

vbelow, it. is CIA's position that even asking th ,

 

#ieonsent to release would threaten the current relationship. it

 

Within the last year, a demarche was made 5 py
‘ government expressing strong concern that U.S. declas- .
' sification legislation expressly spell out that no information i
provided to the USG by be declassified | .
. wath@ut its permission. A copy 0 {Ss demnarche is provided
} for the Board's review. (See attached.) It is worth noting

i-s—demar.che isnot. -between—intelligence_services—bu
ce cermin Tae eB TE ecto

 

 

 

 

  
 

  

 

SECRET

 
13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: — Government Information

 

 

 

(rather between overnments -- it was literally “delivered by oe 4
hog to the National Security Council and_|
£ () e U.S. assador . fhe manner in which the

5 Ceececcrondoreated the demarché demonstrates that the ; ow)
: £ classified information is receiving top priority

 

 

 

: Luo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae

{ in the[ government and is not just a concern of

: their intelligence community. “> —

on : \
\ i = nn — :

-1 je On two recent but sepdrate occasions reo

 

passed to CIA information indicating that there would be :
: assassination attempts on two non-U.S. citizens. CIA
} ==requested that it pass this information on to the targets, but
' refused. They argued that the information was si
-- t+ not specific enough and would endanger a source. The = 3
stated that if they believed_the information was
| useful, they would paSs it themselves. were >
OS concerned that CIA had even asked to pass on this information, i
2 and queStioned what they perceived as CIA's willingness to ~ | as
~ share their information with third parties. Finally, they : '
\ stated that the easiest way to protect their information was |
simply not to..pass it to CIA anymore.

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 ¢ Just this month, a senior official of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ “approached the.CIA with accusations that a former Agency ‘y i :
| 7 employee allegedly_may have disclosed their classified ,
\ information. believe that this disclosureé“——— 5 :
| may be _related to the loss of all agent reporting sources sO
ma ina country of particular interest to them. The DDCI i :
a promised to launch an - ; bo
\ _investigation into the matter.. a |
in ‘ t
a) [recently expressed grave concérn to CIA
; . about a book published by~an Américan USG official which =| i
| 2 alludes to a relationship between the CIA and - 7 j

 

 

 

ws EL __| Even _though“this book was not an official CIA -
: \ -acknowledgment “
j 2 this incident called into question the CIA's ability to protect “p

that relationship. ee An ‘ ay,

der the. circumstances, it would be an affront to
to be asked for their consent in light of the
\above events which have all occurred in the last year. The ‘
would not only be extremely upset with CIA, but would “sg
jeer my their consent. Should deny their }
consent, CIA would have no authority to agree to the release of

othe “information and would be obligated to do all it. ‘could to

 

 

         
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

{ prevent d#sclosure. It is cruc*éal not only~to CIA's mission but ?
pow ee eine eer _ aie ett Oe ee en ~T 3
vee . 4

SECRET

 
