 

fet

   
 

ld poe t.
L

  

t

We

Xe

 

66 Felipe POJAS, Mexican enplovee of ths Cultural Seotica oo whe. :

  
 

DiTDY ge her @ parronsi
eee, w-Prabont thie but
“lor “ise et eo friend of

Ap Tereg
Sattar atdressed
rapred Wis Aol
DGRIIS.

   

 

“\ueds

“On Fotnesdsy ant Thuratoy (22 ant 32 Jany URSTETA,- an. employes

of the Conmercial Sactlon, was comp ai tas’ out the KRdat who
supposedly work there =. STIL
who can't! sean to get arythia:
up peper. URSIETA wes quite 2

Qulllerno RUIZ has been shevins himself te ba quite aggressive
politically in staff weetiris. Is appears to de a violeat .

 
 
 
 

. partisan of ne Castro reste.

_ STARE has been less ayrsse.ve thas before, haa recently beea
dam in the dupe ami hes Leen ss sting a lect of tine tating -

 

‘to Dre, MACHADO, The Ambassador :old Ora. MACHADO that MORABAL

  

nd. He food don't get aia to: enere Q

 

handles distribution of Castro rrawcanda to people whe visit the

Exbassy -- hag teen riven @ desk in the Culture] Section, This mas

only earns about 5 ~ 503 nesos pee sonth, (L=9°SAYS TRAT ROSAS
OOULD BE BOUHT #2 15 AVAIL“BLE] He is about 28-30 years old,

Coty SCLOZZAID has retumel froa Cuba, There ds seme tauk that
she micht marry Jesus SOlS, in Cum, although she is much older,

SOTO is some sort of lesces -- periips a labor leader there.

On Sueday 26 dan a group of Chinese acrobats paid 6 courtesy
visit to the Embassy. The leater of this group said that Senator
Banuel SOREN Ssaches would soci be coing to China, :

  
   
   
  

 

was at the Embassy; She said
=> tia dJohnsonLopes: Mateos: -

ES, divorced wife of a: forner
ss Delores said
EZ Arvas are great friends
and that she had Been, aa eve we vhics DIAZ Ordas sent to the -
Anb, She appeared to be quite amset that Victor RICO Galan had

On Monday 77 dan Dolores {
she hopes to go to the ib
interview, She cama wite 5

been davited to Cuba but that she had not, She wants to interview

Fidel CAST#O again, kEDCES is. an American oltiten, lives:

Insursentes. Sur 72h, $5 wa5-_ 53, Mog dasguters Me, Teresa”
An dmerican nared fre: : a geimming chanplon, has bees

in tha Embassy trie to i-mmierent his plan to swim fron Cuba to
Florida and set a new werld record, APARICIO remrked tolLef) -
that if they let this nut trai= a Cuban to make this swim (as he

    

 

wants te do) it would protably resujt in thousands, of Cubans joing

 

the sar6 thing to get out.

BALOASARS},

Some youngsters from a group called the "Horimiento Coltural - on
axicano” hava been trying So ostablisn pood conta: aa

Ixhassy, The president fs dose y28, phaag. 23-21-39, The
VicewPrasident is Eafas}/ecrris®, phone 2lel?=6}, address Avenida
Central No, 266-3, Cole-ia = > Sogare The Subdsecretary of ~~
Urraniration fs shadies eis 73. They had ©
thee first "Ountaral Festival "a9 proof of the
Tried ~~

SEAT Tt

whe ane

 
   

oa *3gPhoy

 

 

Yors

 

  

. dei oes wee
 

 

 

 

extent of thelr lore = wr the Dibsa gacnle.® Dove sot :
nog eed ht nts (awa, Dele oe care devestigating, ©” :

   
      
  

3. ClaSsasked B to get hin & book about ths neincer Arsnile OCRET, This
beck te published by he ° “hitaey Muse-aa of peerless wh The Macuillas Company's
New Yerk, 19ST. It will be ordered fran iL5 separately,

&. The meeting had to be ent shert siace 59 bad to go elsewhere to weet and
assese am agent prospect who wae planning to leavs Mexico City the next norning,
According’ y, it was agreed that ano‘her mee'ing woul) be bald on Tuesday h February °°
at 2X at the safe apartment. (L-Powill be mid lis Januuwy salary at that tine,

‘

 

ee eee

 

QcAner
 

.

Excerpt fron Attachnent to,

FROM =: «Lawrence F, Barke?
SUBJECT: Meeting with\LITAMIL-9; 1 April 1965

4, (L-S\reported as follows:

oesce
Joi T-9 "turned over the| letter to MIRABAL.

MIRABAL seenad to feel. he had a hot potato on his hands, was very un-

comfortable ant even a bit scared and said, "I'l1 have te discuss

this with the Ambassador." (L-9) notes that MIRASAL 4s cowardly,

timorous, not at. all like his predecessor AZCUS who was the epitone

of self confidence and control. (I-9\finds this interesting since AZCUE

was not a Communist and MIRABAL is -~ the Caxcunist 1s really the

weakling in spite of all the strength that suprosedly comes from

knowing that Marxisu-leninism is right.)

’

 

oanee

Excerpt from Attachment to

FMA~23268-
23 April 196%
 

‘toa t0267-10420

      

poeeetinainal I 4 TRIES ACTH

8B ¢ KR EP

    
      
  
  

WO eo er ectrs

     
 
 

of. .ME Division |
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
Gutef of Station, FAVE

 
   

There are attached contact reports dated 13 Marsh, 28 March, 2 April,
eed 13 April 1964 covering seetings with {LIMdL-9. 5

     
   
 

Mirage

  

 

f DRSPATON SYETCR AND nia

  

 
74-00000

 pedrusry 196s .
Mfatoa 23 0/¢ .
o Mi) pinnen ty :

 

FRUM a Lawrence F, Sarver

SUNT 1 Meeting witn EYE S37 Jan 1965

 

 

1, A resting with DeFjtook riace frem 2019 stil 2Uh5 hours 30 Jan 5
166L at the safe spartuent, (Le 19 in surmrisinecly gone epirite, showed i
none of his usual depression, . }

2. (LePsreporte? on the fallesing:

@ Cr Saturday 18 Jan at the nscal Enbassy staff meeting, several
now assipnnents were pressed out, “Sree month plan"® wae
announced ard during this periot staf? members, in addition 2
to their uscal duties, will orepare snecial reports on several:
aed “xe topics, Raul APARICIO will do a report on the Notiona2 Univ ere ity =a
gir _ physical slant, stutent hody, activities, ways in Wisch the Cubaa
overnnment.can exert Influence, etcef L-9 will |

— so an
é gil "RAGHADO will do a report on ccuntries which have diplomatic re=
ations with Cuba -- exphasizins how centact with representatives
here jn Mexico of such coun'ries wy be parlayed into something
a” -more worthvhile for the Castro voverraent. Rogelio PODRIGUEZ was
? given an assignment as Political Reporting Officer,

see ernnee

+ NR ETN ERR TINR CBE “oe oat ey 4-8

 

 

 

 

 

_ At this mecting Guillemo fU12 of the Commercial Office =~ vho hes -
Blo? recently been nerzing as a fanatics} Fidelista =~ spoke out about .
the recent accord between the LSA and Cuba, saying. that if was

convenient for the USS2 to keep on “he good side of Cuba and thos

. , keep a darper in the back of the Urpertallists, Ambassador HERNAKDEZ,

pst Arvas, sonewhat taken aback by RUIZ" Language, pointed out that the
relationship between the UOSR and Cuba is based, above all, an the
highest principles of international friendships ¥

Last Wednesday (29 Jan) a Soviet official, Zoris TY RUDENHD,_¥ visited

hi igs weaedisy Be

es whe ey - the Cultural Department and spoke with APARIT] = Sel the tock ;
ihe 4 i- . pains to "be a good Cormnist” during this encomter: (This Come :

bet wrth versation was picked up by (MMTPRAP) AUDENID wan aleo at the hae of :

. ila y! o~ Horacio FLORES Sanches on tie 28th after the Martd hange session ‘

set at the Sudan Cultural Inetituts, }

 

@ 4 Bolivian wan — nares poosibly VILLALBA — we recently at ‘the :
9. =e Hotel Oxforl with 7 children, waiting to go te Cuba to jois her y
_ paart Festal husband who works there cL-Dyber Loves she has gone ca to Cubay a

Ae ste . . .
? of 4, On 17 January Cuben delegates to the CEPAL Conference visited the
, Embassy and spoxa with Snbassy employess, One of these delegates, — t .

referring to the Nicaro plant in Cuon, said that only 12 engineers {
of tha original 37 revsined, Of . ese, a man named (fnu) PRESILLA a"
was still doing an excellent job alulazeh he is physically in poor
‘ condition, The dicaro plant specifically, ant technicians throughout»
Cuba in general, are having a hard tine with the decimal systea used

by the Usk in its tecraical equipment. The delegates said that
Sat Fare e aly t3L tering econony .
Fs Sugar 2 ons st abel asses) tad 1 degiagtaly Uae ste q Es tote

EGRLi
 

hy

is direc*ter of the Tita dancing stniio gested at es Ararst,
ict ie were tures. . oat

le
¢

“Pages

p.

¥ Be

- The Marti conereration at the Insti tute/wes a big success

Comes, : q . oo
After the affair at institute a croup of these present went te
. the hone of Horacio““LORES Sanches of fellas Artes, CARBALID did

Reneweeme t . :

te
(feu y TA Treheustocul Selb aPyurci: fo the Exbassy the
“other « od that @ horneeziale haf bea! saned out® of HORE,

On 23 January Osear CONCFPUIO was standing at tha’g te ‘vies the -
mailwan errived vith a letter for the intessador, This lettar:

wes freee Lic, DICE Ortar we CONCEPTION said, *T saw it With ag.
on eyes, the envelors had TiAl Cnlas! asse on i¢,?

   

    
 
 

 

On 29 Jan a Venesuelan wenn anued _eseat osama came to the
Pabassy, She was staying at the Sotel Viereyes, Room LO2, She -

was trying to sell exhibition rights to a Mla entitled "det. |.

y Crinen™ which had been filmed in Venesuela and shown only tarice
before the government ahut it dow and prohibited future showings,
labelling the fils as of “imoreper social tendencies ,* BEJARANO
said that she planned to stay in Macico stout a week and would also
contact the Soviet end Creech Sntwssies in an effort to sell the

film and recoup some of the cost of proajacing ite She was told’ the’

her proposition would ve relayed to Hevena, eo

A—
A yorng Cuban doctor, named Silitio REYES, to tn
‘trying to return to Cuba, he wee in the Enbeasy
been there before. -
on 28 Jaa

 

of people showed up. The speskers were Bemaneil CARMLLO, Raul
APARICIO, Gaston MELO, Ernesto MEJTA Sanches, and Ereile ABREU

not want to. go Tor $a Jono reason unknown to(lnd While at FLORES
place, (L-9° ‘gow that Raul PEREIRA *Raulite? Seemed very interested
in FLORES Sanches and asket a number of questions about hims(L—9 \
says that PLORES is a well kcom howsacual, (LIBOY shows that

Raul PEREIRA ob s(ahg° donca sexual)
Severe oars ago Ana Berta ORTEGA do ARANOO came to viet. ‘the

 

Cultura} Denerigent. ® was acomgant> the brother of the
Mexican Berta MIGALLON — he a dancer, She aaid she

At 1330 hours 71 Jan Dani santo ines ocalade, 4 Hondurea, visited ‘the

Cultural Depar taent, Ha lives in Puebla at Peubla 13 Sar 3307-13,

‘Later on he.spoxe with Rogelio RO0RTSUEZ and me Nap arranariss

Rogelio doesn't sem to trust ne," :

The BragiiMen-Polish EngineerEe? met at the airport has gone OB

to Cuba, This man (BETIDE) is “very corredt, does not ay wach, -

serious,” | : oe

Atter Teresa! was aden off et the airport, Oscar ‘concercros
‘ad® that she had been Mired on orders of President DORTIOOS

en got tired of recelving reperte that a fasous international

sex deviate (famosa "tortillera” internacienel) was working at the.

  

Embassy. ; DORTIOS fired her for “imnoral ooaduat.*

'

| i: SECRET

  
     

.

= meme mare” © ae memes

 

!
