 

40247-10055

aro,

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
(Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH | == a

10 7 a
Cater of Station, SAVE NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY. QUALIFIED DESK

 

Caofef, WHD, Chlet, Wa/sa__ CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FRO ips . ‘ : .
Chief of Station, (Saritiags > | 6-2? micronum
SBVECTE

€ rivoun_ Paance Operational - Poscible Utilization of AMICE-14 in Student Activities

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES : | aa Cale

Reference: UPGA-LTTS ata 23 Sept 1904

2. pace-is, as Gescribed in Reference, definitely. appears uniquely qualified,
and with bis previous training, cimcld be concidared a a highly competent agent
for clandestine activities. The Station vould more than welcome A-14 as an agent
Of the Station if 1 apeared thet there we any possibility of using bin in
student activities ag deccribed in Reference.

2. ‘The Stat‘oa has no‘ going Operations,in the =tudent field in which A-1k
could be uced-at this time. Apart from the Project (mainly concerned
-. with Gurixtian Democratic Youth) and *s dealings with dissident elements
of the Radical Youth, the Station Geveloping contacts in democratic
type student leaders. “Since A-14 vould Obviously be unsuited for infiltmting
Commnist or pro-Castro groups, the Station believes any prospects for student
type operations involving A-14 vould probably have to start irom cezatch end be s
Gevelopsantal type operation. . Given A-Vi's necessity for careful handling, ser pura-
graph 7 of attaciment 3 of Reference, tha Station feels that A-L) aight reject or
be Ciscontent with developin; student operations. Belag a man of ection, even the
general Chilean political climte and operational conditioas would protebly not

appeal to A-1k,.

3. Station agrees vith the statesent in paregraph 9 of attachment 4 of Referenc
“the bigneat challenge is to find a wy to. continue to utilize his talents”. while
the Station recognizes the fact that A-1é would be an asset for the Station, we are
unable to place hin in @ going student operation. Any developmental type operation
involving A-1 vould bave te be on a trial basis with no positive guarantee of its
sucéecs or continuance. Qnly on this basic could the Station justify the assignment

of A-1s to(Chile?
4

 

r

  

OSH A. PRORERP
Acting
— Distribution? _ roy Ll
2-003, weave ~Fo cs 7 re.
iaiFia 2 Oc ale. hifi bio etteles 2 1 t..7 QD, Bleek :
al 20 i;

CeOss eertaence 1G T BATH Symp ANG pananbee eat

i 22 i
. OCIMREA 196!

ee |
A * i Ceara Ie i Wad Oud Ae vaLe
i

foe : ayeees : any. :

PROCESSING ACTION =
