 

Everette Howard kunt, Jr.
23500 .

1. Subject, a former GS-15 Operations Officer assigned te
DDP/Europe, is 5@ years of age and married. He was employed by
this Agency from November 1949 until his voluntary retirement under
CIARDS on 30 April 1970. He had previously served with the Office
of Strategic Services during World War II. On 6 November 1970
Subject was granted a Covert Security Approval for use by Central
Cover Staff with Robert R. Mullen and Company, Washington, D.C."
On 19 July 1971 Subject was reported to have joined the White House
Staff as a Consultant to President Nixon preparatory to the President's
trip to the Peoples Republic of China. Subject's Agency security
file was reviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 5 August
1971. Subject is a writer of espionage fiction. in 1968 Subject
circubated to the publishing community "Give Us This Day," a manuscript
written under his former operational alias and dealing with the
events of the Bay of Pigs. The matter came to the Agency's attention
in January 1970.

2. Subject graduated from Brown University in 1940. He served
with the U.S. Navy from early 1941 until late 1942. After a year
with Time, Incorporated, he entered the Air Force, where he was
detailed to the Office of Strategic Services. He served in the Far
Fast until January 1946. Subject engaged in writing and then from
May 1948 until February 1949 was employed by the Economic Cooperation
Administration (ECA) serving in Paris, France, as an aide to i
Avarell Harriman. ~ :

3. A background investigation conducted by the Federal Bureau
of Investigation in July 1949 revealed no indication of instability
on Subject's part, but it was later learned that Subject had been
refused an increase in salary with the ECA and had been permitted

' to resign. Subject was at that time described by Paris sapoumants

as highly intelligent and imaginative but also blindly selfish ¢
egotistical to both colleagues and sup2xiors. Subject's wife,
Dorothy Louise Goutiere Hunt (0-35576), was investigated for Agency
employment in 1948. Her former husband was described as .

and Subject's wife was described as and
not inclined to remain in one place for any length of time. She did
not enter on duty, having accepted a position with ECA in Paris.

pr RET 2507 1
$ uh | Excleded fran astoaate

cowngrasigg snd
teclasslficatioa
.

 

‘0g t0119-40317 . - oo
EY, UECLASSIFIED =| [7+ NUERNAL - C co: DENTIAL secret

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ;

  

SUBJECT: (Optional)

 
  
 

   

Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

 

  
      

EXTENSION —

7982

FROM:

  

Frederick N, Evans/FES@_

 

  
  
  

 

 

    

    

bate designation, foom number, ond OFFICER'S comment to show from whom
an eo INITIALS, fe

jer each comment.)

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
  

 

 

 

 

AL O _ USE ONLY oO UNCLASSIFIED

fat 610 “tors [] SECRET

(1) CONFIDEN

T

Biche Salar bbe:

      

  

Een em mentee eee
 

Our Paris sources later reported that Subject's wife was Formerly

She was then described as

By
contrast, Subject was re-investigated by the Agency in July 1970.
He and his wife have four children. They were described by six
neighbors acquainted with them for up to nine years, as excellent
parents, good neighbors, and fine community citizens.

hk. Subject entered on duty as an Intelligence Officer, GS-13,

in November 1949. In December 1950 he was assigned as Chief of
tation, Mexico City, and then served as Chief of Mission there
until August 1953. He served in Tokyo, Japan, from June 1954 until
February 1957. He was then assigned as Chief of Station, Montevideo,
Uruguay. Subject was Chief of Station in Montevideo until early
1950. In April 1960 Subject failed to report an eccident in which
he damaged a Station vehicle. There were indications that Subject
attempted to use his personal influence with the President of Uruguay
to have his assignment there extended, but he returned to the United
States in June 1950 and was assigned to Mexico City on Project Wiuake.
In November 195) Subject was re-assigned to Headquarters.

5. A cable from Montevideo , dated 6 November 1950, indicates
that Subject had written former Uruguayan contacts commenting that
he was working on the Cuban problem and publishing an anti-Castro
newspaper in Miami. It was recommended that Subject be warned about
such indiscreet remarks, but apparently no action was taken.

6. Subject served in Headquarters assignments until July 1965,
when he was converted to Contract status and sent to Madrid, Spain.
He returned to Headquarters in September 1966 and served in DDP

caff assignments until his retirement in April 1970.

\3-3
7. While Subject was stationed in Tokyo, his B20, employment
by the Argentine Ambassador was approved by al In

November 1962 Subject requested permiSgion for his wife to work

for the Spanish Embassy in Washington. {Subject's wife's employer
was terminating a contract with the Spanish Embassy, the work could
be done at home for the most part, and Subdject's wife was apparently
suggested for the job.) This request was denied, but in February 1953
it was learned that Subject's wife apparently was doing translations

at home for the Spanish Embassy. The matter was discussed with senicr.

Agency officials and arrangements made to terminate the relationship
on 36 June 1963.
 

SECRET

8. Subject's file reflects that in late 1963 and mid-196h
his office was considering three individuals as possible ghost
writers on Agency projects. Subject initiated the requests, but the
three individuals were not utilized due to questionable loyalty.

9. On 26 January 1970 a source of the Security Research Siarf
learned that Subject was circulating through the publishing comunity
"Give Us This Day," a manuscript written under his former operational
alias and dealing with the events of the Bay of Pigs. Investigation
disclosed that the manuscript had been in the possession of Tom Wallace,
of Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, Inc. as early as 9 July 1968 and that
it was sent on that date to William F. Buckley, Jr., of the National
Review. The manuscript was sent to the Arlington House and Walker
and Company as well. Both rejected it as too controversial, as had
Holt, Rinehart, and Winston. :

 

10. Subject was interviewed regarding the manuscript on
17 February 1970 by Mr. Karamessines, the DDP. Subject at first
professed ignorance, but when told the title admitted he had written
it for his own benefit as a historical record. Subject said he had
shown the manuscript about two years ago to his agent, Max Wilkinson,
and to William F. Buckley, Jr. He said he had only wanted an opinion
from these gentlemen, and added that the manuscript had been returned
to him. He had, he said, not wanted it published. Subject was
instructed as to the danger of such a manuscript being published, and
was to attempt to determine how many copies of it might be in circulation.
He was not to contact Walker and Company, who were the source o2 the
original information. .

11. Subject retired on 30 April 1970. At the time, he listed
his forwarding address as in care of Robert R. Mullen and Company ,
Washington, D.C. On 6 November 1970 Subject was granted a Covert
Security Approval for use by Central Cover Staff with Robert R.
Mullen and Company, Washington, D.C.

12. On 19 July 1971 Subject was xeported by the Jersey City, .
New Jersey, Journal to have joined the ite House Staff as a
Consultant to President Nixon preparatory to the President's visit
to the Peoples Republic of China. Subject's Agency security file
was reviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 5 August 1971.

-3-

SECRET
