13-00000

REPRODUCTION
SEORET PROMIBITED

 

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIIT

 

1. DIR 74673; F210, October 1963 - dissemination
to Depaftment™ of State, Department of the
Navy.s: wand:the.. Federal Bureau of Investiga-

 

LN

3. Int¥yhal Note from ANGLETON to ROCCA,. ‘dated
12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809 - FOIA Now “689-"
298] oy

4. Memorandum for RANKIN, dated 1 Ihly: 19643
subject: Lee Harvey ASWALD's Arrival ThKe
in Helsinki on 10 October 1959, S
of FOIA No. 758-325]

  

 

- 0062136

REPRODUCTION sear
PRONISITED =

Pikes Wai Ne come me ae . a we - : ee tee
13-00000

   

SR/CI/Research: S.Duncan:el. ve
_ ‘Reqritten: RHelms/ecd - 1 July 4h
_= address

 
  

BS

 

SECRET

“REPRODUCTION

Ciena) Richard Hels

REPRODUCTION
PROHIAITED

ivaje YI3KF
Cangpecatea Fabs

. R 4. ss [ a ik alee
Deputy Divecter for Plans
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PRONIBITED

 

OU .2156

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the. Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of
the passport to the man to come back to this country and that |
has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc. {
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the ,
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be !
sure that whatever is said in the report is conferred in and it . |
is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will
have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said
and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make.

DCI: Well that will be fine. Thank you
H: Good bye.
(tape) mem

_ ec: DDCI . . .
‘ DD/P ; ; .

 

~—SEDRE

REPRODUCTION =
—— PROWIGITED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

( °
. eee (C2134

 

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J. EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 ~ 11:20 a.m. tee

DCI:

DCI:

SECRET

I just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection
with your investigation of the situationin Dallas. I know
the importance the President places on this investigation
you are making. He asked me personally whether CLA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just
wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

We have had the very best support that we could possibly
expect from you.

Good, Well you can call on us for anything we have.
We will feel free to do that

I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and I am delighted that the President has called on you to
make it.

We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various
wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man
was the right man etc. that firedthe gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have
dug up, for instance, with regards to the maiter i: Mexico City.
We have now found that the. photograph that was ta cen was not
that of Oswald. We do find from our informant down there that
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has -
given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit
to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it wald take three
weeks. He had, I think, ‘a visitor's permit for about a week or
ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

- Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have

those operational sources down there. We want to handle them
very carefully. It involves some very high level people down _
there. Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.

kK éze Le bzed

Me, Katzenbach - _” Who is handling j it for the Department - ;

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will

_of course go over it very carefully because it will be a report

that will be released to the public, probably through the White

ot
PROWIBITED —

 

 
13-00000

Reever

} | PRORIBITED

REPRODUCTION

 

‘6. The second point in the referent memorandum
concerns the papers: No were available at Headquarters i
on Oswald before Saay of the assassination. Speif
ically, Or bese ve documents which had been : eS to
the Agency befs aN e assassination. Two of th
had been ser +3 uss’ ‘Bh the FBI, two by the Dey@

   

 
     
 
  

  
   
   
 
 
  

Bao o£

State, an@-o b re S Navy. A 201 file QOE289748)
had bee ope Mecember 1960 on the Ress (+)

rece 3 of these five doc tS)

£4 wy records that had b : slat y

eporting | 7
a of Oswald's activi Seo had. not 1

included in the 201 file. Th tinent cables
from Mexico City were held at the Mexico b¥anch at Head~
quarters, while the data contained in them had been | ;
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were
incorporated into the file following the assassination ~-
and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
including the Warren Commission.

7. %«It should be noted that no particularly great
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald Refore the assassination because Qswald’s

  

name had-no par

 

 

Goh regarding the records we ais ed

maar nea inet kion as well as the mae.
i fee Tportce
cea

  
  
 
 
 

 

ed darters i
ewing the i

   
 
 

ng this visit,
the visitors were satisfied with our records system and
the manner in which we kept our records.

Paul iiartran ;

gu02498

PROGIBITED oe a ome
13-00000

REPRODUCTION

et. PROWIBITED

and J. Edgar HOOVER

* eosery
’ PROBIBITED

“REPRODUCTION sex
PRORATED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROWIBITED

~ CONFIDENTIAL EX~ /093.L

   
  
     
  

éiens of Lee Harvey OSWALD!
@tion with the Agenc

 

oA)

MeRorandum of Conversation, Dan
<3yRather/Les Midgley and the DCI,
>” Dated 6 September 1975

1. The referent memorandum contains two points
which require comments. The first point concerns
allegations that were made shortly after the assassination
of President Kennedy and that-Rave crept up every so often
since then. In one form or aio xr, the allegations. are
that Lee Harvey OSWALD had/Pek connected with the Agency.
The allegations are total’y 5 ‘wifounded.

  
  
   
   

2. The facts re

mite superior at that time, to

thin the Agency at Headquarters

@ Harvey OSWALD had ever been
used by the Agen or been connected with it in any
conceivable way. ie ordered me to make the checks

. directly and personally to the degree possible and not
to accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex-
Plained that he was following instructions from-Mr. R.
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one of © ‘the.
Agency's key contact officials with the Warrén. a
Commission. Rae

to determin e

b. Although I had already checked the Main Index
of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, I
rechecked the Main Index and found no'record beyond
that which I had already obtained .béfore (plus. those
items which had been integrated igita. the-records system
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO
records which indicated any: Agency connection with
OSWALD.

Tee FOIA Rave on “NOY 1576.

fa
.

 

Se coro J pebp?S

v8

9002105

pereoguction =

COPY NO.

PRONIBIMED

 

of 16

 
104-10266-10010

 

, REPRODUCTION
ener PROAIBITED

 

 

 

  

3. Memorandum for Chief, Tord ‘Staff x lated 18 Sep-
tember 1975; subject:.. ‘Allegations of Lee

Ilarvey OSWALD's Connection with the Agency.
[EX-10932 - FOFA No. 1188-1000] i

a

 

—GUG2Ing

‘REPRODUCTION scatet , a oe 1 ss Se AB
PROAIE HSE |
13-98000

“REPRODUCTION
PROIETED

SO CONFIDENTIAL

  
  

c. The next: imponent I checked was DCD.
There was no /£éei in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements: were thén made for me to check
telephonicadly with -éath DCD base in the US. The
chiefs ofthe basés‘then serached their records .
and spoke\witheheyr officers. I was then advised
by e@ch Of the\hiefs or their designees individ-
ua Kyth x here had been no contact with OSWALD.

d. en checked with’ Division D, SE Division,
and LA Division's Cuban Operations Group (COG) for
any informal desk records. The results were like-
wise negative. .

 

e. Through the Secwtity Research Section .
(GRS) of the Office of Suupity I had the security
-files checked. Thereceage © record of OSWALD.

£. Although ~ hee
I checked their
on the remote
something on

files. SS QW .
: KN BS : .
g. In wy ea the chief of the CI Staff's
Administrative Office called the Office of Personnel
and received the word that there was no record on an

employee or an applicant for employment named Lee
Harvey OSWALD.

an 5

“me, records on Americans,
sigan, and Cuban holdings
ey may have recorded
was no record in those

  
   
   

   
     

h. I also checked the Office of Medical
Services and found no record on OSWALD. ‘

 

 

i. The Covert Action Staff also foufid no record
on him. es

   

j.. Finally, I also checked the..rec
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group.
negative results. é

k. My checks were completed on: 4,,December 1963
and I then sent a brief informal note ‘to Mr. Rocca

 

2

CONFIDENTIAL

 

peroena

pho
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIGITED

re ( @ONRDENTIR —(
aS

specifying“ati the checks I had made and stating
S- showed that Lee Harvey OSWALD

    
 
 
  

 

yxy a statement to this effect
4 to the Warren Commission.

 

of their priate stations, I was teia: and the. <
results we negative. ao

4. I recall very clearly that we were extremely

concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an American returning
_ from the USSR, might have been routinely debriefed by

pcD, thus having established contact with the Agency.

The same point has now, quite understandably, beén made

by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this

subject I have personally concluded that there is valid
. reason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time.

He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD

had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before

1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners,

particularly by Americans, before that time was quite

uncommon.and we were hungry for eyewitness information in

those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end

of that decade @ were so many persons travelling to .

and from the SovtdeésUnion that DCD was incapable of talk- ; i

ing to all of Atiem m. Therefore, a program of selectivity : !

and specific-faxyet, pplicability was instituted. In : :

light of th@aBove;< seems to me that OSWALD-- if he :

es 3 in at all--would have easily been \

simply did not possess the type of.
D was seeking at that time. DCD would . {
ts limited manpower on travellers who. : i
ater access in the USSR.

  
   

Se es hould be added that my above-described
search in e@ Agency file holding produced no record or
indication that any other US Government agency had -used |
him as a source or had considered him for recruitment. ,

 

CONFIDENTIAL

SO (we ag
PROHIBITED — |
