ocUnel

FBI but that, of course, he would be advised about any

proposal or decision to disseminate then.

6. In relation to the point about Anatole's concern

about knowledge of his information I told Anatole that it

would be necessary for him to comment in detail in the

future as he had recently on certain items. He was told

that, as he knew, we are at a stage in the

NOSENKO case

where details such as the organizational assignments of

individuals and identifications and the number of leads

provided were tending to obscure the Crucial Questions

and divert our attention from the central problem o1 why

NOSENKO would have been dispatched. I told Anatole quite

frankly there was a feeling he had not been fully cooperative

on the NOSENKO case. There was a belief that he should

furnish the details of his knowledge about

individuals,

operations, the KGB, etc., so that others can try to judge

Anatole was told that it would come as.no surprise to him to

, the accuracy or inaccuracy of NOSENKO's information. °

learn that the fact he has not told everything he knows is

still a problem and that there may be some misunderstandings

since it is obvious his detailed knowledge

-have a direct bearing on the NOSENKO case.

 

has had and will
Anatole firnly

 

 
74-0000

 

~ 16 -

but amicably reaffirmed his position concerning cooperation

on the NOSENKO case. He said (a) it was obvious that

research to date and collateral information supports his

position that NOSENKO is 1 dispatched agent; (b) that he

will continue to cooperate fully as he has when there has

been an exchange of information; (c}) that he would not give

details now because to do so would result in a situation

where it is “Anatole against NOSENKO" and it is obvious that

more evidence than this is required for an objective conclusion

about NOSENKO; (d) that details will follow after research is
analyzed or during the process of analysis as we examine

information and the details are pertinent; (e) that it is
unnecessary for him at this time to give additional details
about personnel or the KGB organization except when these
details reflect on major items -- overall these details are j
not crucial and there is nothing to gain by considering small
items and details. If, however, small details become a major :

/ fo,

point such as in connection with KOVSHUK, CHURANOV, GUK’ and

 

GRYAZNOV’ then duying the review he will pinpoint the specific
and detailed contradictions. He reiterated his previous con- :

ments pointed to the waste of time and diversion involved in

-pursuing details and leads to recruitments or persons of

i interest to the KGB when there is nothing crucial or significant

involved.

 

Nae SRR min fo

 

 
 

oo - my

another polygraph examination either before or after the
period of confrontation. The method or approach to the
elicitation from NOSENKO is elaborated in Attachment C.
Anatole's recommendations about confrontation tactics will
follow after the results of the elicitation phase have been
analyzed, During the period NOSENKO is being asked to com-
ment initially, work on additional elicitation topics will
continue, :

5, Anatole continues to express his concern about the
problem of an Agency penetration and his absolute belief
that there is a continuing need to strictly compartment as
many aspects of ovr research as possible and to restrict
knowledge about our continuing efforts and particularly the
details to get to the bottom of the NOSENKO case. « He
emphasizes the need to severely limit dissemination of the
results of the elicitation from NOSENKO although he under-

stands it will be necessary to provide the results to the

FBI. He is concerned about the dissemination of his KY tapes

and the possible implications since he now believes he nay
have crred in outlining too many areas of concern in the
context of considering NOSENKO's bona fides. Anatole was

told the KY tapes have not yet been made available to the

 

 

 
PPE 2.0008 teat ate nenene cto oo eee

 

 

Anatole expects to review and comment and to frame additional
questions after he reviews the transcripts of the first
elicitations. He has requested and expec:is, as this can be
accomplished, to review and comment about a summary of each
Crucial Question,. The summary is to set forth both collateral
and NOSENKO information and detail, with attachments if neces-
sary, exactly what NOSENKO has said. Also, pertinent photo-
graphs and appropriate other documentation is to be attached
for comment or verification of identity by Anatole. Anatole
insists that he review and assist in the framing of all ques-
tions to be as<ed of NOSENKO and he states that he will
stipulate the order of questioning by both topic and specific
question where appropriate. He will specify or indicate areas
as set forth in Attachment C where questioning may proceed

without his detailed guidance but he expects to be consulted

about each topic. He pians to carefully tailor the elicitation

approach and, more importantly, to set down detailed guidelines

to follow when the elicitation or questioning becomes more
*

_direct and concerned with those subjects considered, now or

later as revised, Crucial Questions. Anatole foresees a period
of relatively bland elicitation which will be followed by a
gradual sharpening of questions to the point where there will

be a confrontation or hostile interrogation. He also foresees

 

 

 
 

 

 

~$-

reference to a person or a topic. Anatole was told that

the sorting or isolation proces» has been completed only
throuyh Memorandym N~-188, from a total. of approximately 260
memoranda, It was emphasized that most topics and persons
were discussed with NOSENKO several times at varying intervals,
and that the majority of topics were not covered to completion
in one or two interviews. NOSENKO also wrote memoranda on ;
topics which may not have been covered during interview or
which may relate to interview topics but which have not yet
been correlated with the interviews.

h. That research and analysis on most topics is .
incomplete, both with respect to collateral information and
previous statements from NOSENKO.

i. That, as Anatole knows, there is certain collateral
or related information such as information from the FBI con-
cerning NOSENKO which has not been made available to hin.
Anatole realizes this type of information may be vital to any
consideration of the NOSENKO case and he also points out the
possible if not probable relationship between FBI information

and sources and the problem of penetration of American intel-

 

ligence and Soviet disinformation. He hopes the FBI will

agree to release pertinent information to him and discuss : ‘

CREME SE

Stats
74-00000

 

Terweneime nr eVarLetne RA anders tucbenaNr Seal arein amir dest

 

faye

 

sources in the near future. He realizes any analysis or

assessment of the NOSENKO case will suffer to the extent
information is withheld from him. Anatole understands the
problem even though he obviously does not accept it as
logical or helpful. He stresses the need for us to press
the FBI to make appropriate information available to hin,

j- That information we are dealing with in the
transcripts of the 1967-68 NOSENXO interviews is not neces-
sarily information previously known to or discussed with
NOSENKO and that, for instance, the body of infornaticn re-
sulting from the 1967-68 information has been expanded con-
siderably by NOSENKO's review of hundreds of names and
photographs provided him. It was also noted that it has not
yet been possible to isolate topics new to NOSENKO about
which he was asked to comment during this period. Neither
have we been able to isolate or determine when in the past .
new, topics or questions of possible significance were intro-
duced to NOSENKO. ,

4, We discussed in detail Anatole's recommendations
and evolved an initial selection of Crucial Questions (Attach-
ment B) and from these the first topics and/or questions to

begin in the new elicitation phase with NOSENXO (Attachment C).

 
NAMES Sede COGAN NE ne ON RAE ERs ino Lyn

 

 

whoo

a wey

-~2-

and summaries and questionnaires prepared exclusively on
the basis of information obtained from NOSENKO during the
1967-68 interview period. Each of these papers was read by
Anatole. Anatole's comment, our discussion, or any comment
is detailed in Attachment B, which sets forth crucial ques-
tions in the NOSENKO case.

3. Anatole was told The Director had decided that the
question of NOSENKO's bona fides had not been resolved and
had directed that additional elicitation and questioning of
NOSENKO would be undertaken immediately and expeditiously
pursued. It was understood, of course, as Anatole knew,
that he was to make a major contribution to the questioning
of NOSENKO and that information to this end would be made
available to him: there will be the closest coordination
with him, including a timely review of future transcripts
based on the new elicitation phase. It was understood his
views, comments and recommendations will be transmitted and
seriously considered if not explicitly implemented. Anatole
emphasized the need for him to review in advance all topics,
if not in all cases the specific questions, to be discussed
with NOSENKO after the new elicitation phase begins. He
understands the new elicitation phase will begin with Attach-

ment C and that there will be no additional topics discussed

 

 

 
 

404-10210-10034

cence a ee

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE kECO.0
SUBJECT: Anatole Re NOSENXO

1, 1 31 March and 1 and 2 April 1969, Anatole was
consulia: about the NOSENKO case as a fcllov-up to the late
January 1959 meetings. He gave recomendations concerning
the procedures and topics to be cevered during the begia-
ning phases of additional elicitation from NOSENXO which is
to begin secon,

2. To provide a basis for discussion certain papers
had been prepared for Anatole's review. (See Attachment A
for list.) These papers were basically questionnaires about
some of the unresolved or questionable aspects of the
RKOSENKG case vased largely on the Ceuiial themes Anatole
had highlighted on 17 January 1969 when he consented after
reviewing the October 1957-December 1968 interviews of
NOSENKO. (See transcripts KY 1, 2, 3 and 4.) Gther papers
concerned topics related to the NOSENXO case, minoranda
KOSENAG had written, summaries and questionnaires prepared

from both collateral information and NOSENKO's information

 

stearic gt vetne #  alee MAM ny ceo oe wisn Oe nH MR NR AC. hd epatie ntta ba rn pnb Sct HON ane cml

t
1
!
i
{
f

 

  

 
weet

 

with NOSENKO until after Anatole has an opportunity to

review them and comment,

4. The following summary points emerged during the
course of our discussions as things which must be considered
in the NOSENKO case information and as papers or question-
naires are outlined and topics selected for further elicita-
tion from NOSENKO:

a. NOSENKO, as I understand the situation, has
had full access to newspapers, magazines, radio and TV since
approximately August 1968, Anatole was told I have no .
knowledge of the periodicals or tooks he has read.

b. NOSENKO has recently been afforded a controlled
break from isolation and an opportunity to have feminine
companionship.

c. Since December 1968 the FBI has been inter-
viewing NOSENKO about topics previously discussed as well as
other matters of interest to the FBI which do not originate
with NOSENKO. Anatole noted that FBI access to NOSENKO must
be controlled according to the new elicitation procedures.

d. That it is my opinion only that NOSENKO may
think he is entering into or close to entering into a new

relationship with the Agency on the basis that he has

 

 
74-00009

a

1967-68,

ftir ene ecard tate ppb Em

 
 

 

satisfactorily ansvered all questions during the period

e. That it has not been possible and it may never

be possible te isolate or pinpoint either the exact informa-

tion or the point in time when NOSENKO was given new infor-
mation or additional information which might be relevant
upon analysis to the question of his bona fides or his mission.
£. To date there has been a concentration on pre-
paring elicitation questions on the basis of information
obtained during 1967-68 period because (a) this is the infor-
mation Anatole has reviewed, and (b) this information-has been
considered to be the standard for assessing NOSENKO and his
information and arriving at conclusions, since these inter-
views were designed to elicit information which would help
resolve discrepancies apparent in his previous statements,
and (c) at this time this information is better organized -
and in contrast to information fron 1962, 1964, etc., is
retrievable as an accurate or literal NOSENKO statement.
g. That the summaries and questionnaires, prepared
to date may not include every comment or statement NOSENKO
has made during the 1967-68 period because it has not yet

been possible to isolate, by indexing and extraction, every

 

 

 

 
