 

 
 

 
 

 

_

 

a9)
a
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
14-0000

 
‘oa toriett62

 

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE
COPY.

7 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION: Mr. Sam J. Papich

SUBJECT: COURT FOSTER WOOD
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to a 25 March 1961 and a 6 July 1961 in-
vestigative report on captioned Subject which have previously
been, furnished bo this Agency.

 

who TS a current Agency employee, has recently been_interviewed
concerning his knowledge of Court Foster -Wood whom had

 

‘known since mutual attendance in high school. Attacnhéd is a de-

tailed report of the information furnished by concerning
his knowledge of Wood.

since [J personaly has sufficient reason to question
the activities o ood and the activities of the associates of
Wood, has been advised to discontinue any further contact
with

It would be appreciated if your Bureau would furnish this
Agency any additional information brought to your attention con-
cerning Court Foster Wood and of particular interest would be any

information received by y Bureau cancerning nast association
of Court Foster Wood with

The above information is for your use only and should not be

 

. disseminated outside your Bureau.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

R. L. Bannerman
Acting Director of Security

 

Attachment:
As noted
OS/SRS/BLSolie:ect - 16 October 1961
_ SE VURN TO Gl
Background oe Oly

  

“Do ‘Nol He

 
74-0000

a , RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE
, ’ COPY.

SUBJECT: Court Foster Wood

2

 

lhas recently advised that Court £
Foster Wood was a relatively close high school friend of :
_during mutual attendance at Geo High School, Fa uren,
Virginia, during 1957 to 1959. ee ceseribed Wood as an
“average high school student who had no particular problems with

the exception that there were domestic difficulties between the
father and mother of Wood.

: became acquainted with the parents of Wood and made
occasional visits to their home during the above period of time.
The father of Wood, Foster Wood, is an attorney who was then living
in Falls Church. Some time ago the father and mother of Court Wood
split up and Court Wood and father moved into an apartment on

Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.

 

 

advised that after graduation from high school in
June 1959 he lost any close contact with Wood who then started to
attend George Mason College, where he seemed to have an interest
in philosophy.$ started to attend a military school and
Wood expressed extreme Opposition to military schools.

3
|married in 1960, which also h ed_ to move
somewhat out-of the social circle of Wood, 3 bet reve that
for approximately a year, during 1959 to 196U;"H€did not actually
see Wood but advised that after this period.in which he did not
see Wood he has had a number of contacts with Wood, many of which
. occurred during mutual attendance at the University of Virginia
ion School (night school) in early 1961. On one occasion
Ss Lo Jattendea a party at the apartment occupied by Wood and
, : er at the invitation of Wood, and on. this occasion came into

 

contact with the ''new set of friends" of Court Wood, whom $s
described as being “beatnik _types."" Girls in attendance a é
party, according tol} appeared to be of the "street pickup"
type. ; % :

After the above party Wood occasionally ‘telephoned
and about Christmas 1960 Wood called and stated that he was going

to Cuba under the auspices of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

called on Wood after the return of Wood from Cuba and at
a ime Wood lauded Castro very highly. The father of Wood was
- also present and{___Jobea ined the impression that the father
was also in sympathy with Castro. S| recalled that he again,
at a later date, had visited the Wood apartment, this being an

occasion when Wood had been vigiting somewhere in Falls Church
and contacted[_" to ask to take Wood home. On this
eT

CR
 

 

 

 
