 

7 SEGHET,
19 APR i969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Unknown Subject, Possibly Identifiable with
ERIC STARVO GALT

1 On 19 April 1968 I passed to Mr. Papich of the
FBI ten copies each of the two photographs (copies attached)
of an unknown individual who bears some resemblance to Galt.
These photographs were taken of the individual as he entered
and/or departed the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. Since the
photographs were taken by an automatic camera, the dates were
arrived at by an analysis of the frame numbers within a given
dated reel. The pictures were probably taken during the period
Mel3 October 1967; since 12 October was a holiday (Columbus Day)
and the Cuban Embassy was probably closed, the pictures were
probably taken on either ll or 13 October. The photographs of this
individual were located by Mexican Desk personnel who scanned
negatives of all photographs taken by the automatic camera during
the months of October and November 1967. These films had been
sent to Headquarters for processing and were therefore not availe
able to the Mexican Station. The Mexican Station had previously
scanned, at the request of the Legal Attache in Mexico City, photos»
graphs taken by other means of the Cuban and Soviet Embassies
in Mexico City. The results of these searches by the station were
essentially negative, although one photograph described as only
slightly resembling Galt was turned over by the Mexican Station
to the FBI in Mexico City on instructions from Headquarters. (See
IN 93087 and DIR 9233i dated 17 April 1968.)

2, Mr, Papich was advised that the Bureau is free to
use these photographs in checking the possible identification of
Galt with any FBI sources... He was cautioned, however, that the
geographic location and instalation where the individual was photoe
graphed, the method of photography, and the agency taking the

pe etne

efuad too .

 
[0g 10178-10133

 

 

( unctassivies =) ORAL C) CON ENTIAL. SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT. \Oprenol)

Cl/Ober

TO: (Offer designation, room number, ond
behing) ” one oneres Comments (Member each comment fo thow trom when
NETIALS whom, Draw 9 Lae ecrosn cofuma offer wach comment)

 

 

 

 

rom G10 soe" CH} secret ] conripenTiat =) IMERNAL = C]UUNCLASSIFIED

 

xp
 

| SECRET

photographs must not be identified under any circumstances
without prior permission from this Agency, Mr. Papich agreed
to this condition and stated that he would specifically remind
the FBI agents of the Oswald photograph incident.

3. According to Mr. Papich, current FBI information
indicates that Galt entered Mexico via Lorade, Texas on 7 October
1967; that he was located at the Hotel Rio, Puerto Vallarta, Calisco
from 19 October to 6 November 1967 and at the Tropicana Hotel in
the same place from 7 November to 13 November 1967; and that he
was back in the U.S, on 19 November 1967, -

ClOP/DO

 

Distribution:

Orig. and 1» Galt, Eric Starvo (w/att)
(201-832732 -=RAY) |
Lo-BeMenros-~~-(w/erntt) ><
l» WH/Mexico (w/o att) gle .
l= Assassin file (w/o att}

SES
SECRET ra i ne

 

 
 

SECRET:

SECRET

 

 

 

 
