 

 

 

  

News YC

IN YOUR PERS:

To enable taxpayers to get an early sta
under changes in the rules made by the 1964
Service has come out early with its annual

TAN-LAW CHANGES. Im reading the guide
with your tax forms near the end of vhe ye
attention to these 10 important changes in’

i. Stek-pay rules are tightened up so t
30-day waiting perilod before sick pay can be
2. Casualty losses can te deducted only

3. Deductions no longer are allowed for
aps, driver's Licenses, cigarettes ant liqu
Gain on sale of a hose by a taxpayer

or the sale price, and the tax is re

 

t

   

 

   
 
 
  
  

couteenot Just amounts in excess or
The, tax credit ou dividends is red.

 

exclusion ou dividends is raised f

Moving @xXpe! in connection wit

move is to take a job with a new employer.

3 sor child eare by a wor

ton on incoue in the case o

. rerenteine eredit is mac

where the wife {3 not entitled to eredit on
bw. Afginiens standard dyduction of $20

exeaption 15 aliused, even when it is more t.

   

and the
a

 

 

 

Guide. Instructions with your
ehanges only triefly. Your return «il
the benerit of A tax guide such as the
areuter detail than the instruction 7
de for So cents frem the Superinte
Suae2. Be sure to order by title, *Y

    

 

ROS Es. Latest national Average:
mortsages--not backed by the Gevernment<-

 

sen for the issue of December 7, 1964, Volume LVII-N
FONEWS & WORLD REPORT
 

 

é

“charges, 0.57 por cent: length of
- Ber cent. The averages were compiled &
1A nationwide survey of lenders, °

 

Nts 2
ericans have dinketes, ond more than half .
Stimite of the U.S, Public Health Service,
five tines 45 often among blood relatives of
if you have a alatetic in your family, the
rstelan give you & tlood test for alatetes,

om the Treasury Departaent to holders of a .
inge these bonds for # bonds without paying :

dst, you must do 30 within six gonths after ‘

* bonds began maturing last May. This
F bonds, last of which matured in April.

ing to tuy o Christmas tree, so experts of
tips on how to be sure you get a fresh one
2rs through the follage to see ir it feels
"needles fall, and tap the butt on the
1 You get the tree home, sow the butt
-l of water, ana Sprinkle the foltage dally,
latest count, 76 colleges now efter
‘blo students to elternate between Jokts and
their expenses. The National Commission far
3 that $5,000 Conop Students will etrn 70
Wereve of 82,000 each,
98S with co-operative programs by sending
pe to: Nations Commission for Cocperative
W York, W¥., 10OlA. Hith this Lig a
to the colleges for details, *

ferstandings about a new law that raises
‘y 1, the Vetere, Acmintstration aukes
«eSt for these with low incomes and SRallest
incomes, 2, The increases @o not apply to
Jprtor to July 1, 1960, and do net rics. oy
Ke won. inte effect et th 8 tine,

 

  

ertation for your anid, o you have to
shich you Poy Soctal Seen:
amater tiexet, ar eebh fe-

roeash tc pay her ¢.

‘tv taxes far here
“her and take her
© te buy mad

     

uded in counts on oat:

   
 

«diin Prrepeing F

tReet

iticn ern ke obtcined Ey

  

 
 

 

   

_ TEND A WILE ©
ENCE ANSE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

19 [7 Name ang sooness TINTACS
| Mr. Mare lius
9

bt | ey Cecschicws a :

he PIC ATION TORPTAND HOT FON
; TANG ST OM
Boll Lf CONMIDENT IAT ES ear

 

 

   

 

 

 

  

Remarkes .
There are three questions that RAY
wants answered. Should I endeavor to

answer them, if so, how?

-3, Oa 23 Dee LT adea? Tema ras
Go Waa Tae OU ae Cadet

> Ne never 7
ye ast Shia Wane
Rok ag fe

loacle. Lo hank ‘ :
Choeuwe. Coane in Querto Pree
ved -becd Mw en vse Cammns
: oO ’

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

    
  
 
 

 
  
 

   
      
  

  
       
  

 

  

fOR! RO
1-61

"y

28K
 

 

104-10180-10098

 

 

19 December 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

1. On 18 December 1964 the undersigned lunched with
RAY at the Hotel Ambassador and bricfed him on the high-
lights of contact made with Mr. Crimmins at State on the
afternoon of the lfth of December.

2. RAY is crushed over the fate of his plans to
export his arms to Costa Rica. I[ told him our Ambassador
had received a negative reply from the Costa Rican Govern-
ment as end user about 28 November. RAY pointed out that
this must have been the second or even third visit paid by
our Ambassador to Cesta Rican authorities on this matter
and he stated he believes these multiple comings and goings
must have given the Costa Ricans the impression the U.S. is
against the shiprent. I told him apparently Oduber got out
of touch with current thinking in Costa Rica, but RAY
velieves there were just too many visits on the matter.

The part about internal political considerations in Costa
Rica did not seen to impress RAY much.

3. Per discussion with Mr. Crimmins, I then raised
the possibility of arranging another end user who would have
more guts. RAY, said he would look into it but that there
was really no point in even beginning discussions in an
informal way, if subsequently the U.S. Ambassador was going
to queer the deals by either his attitude or his statements
to the next potential end user. RAY asked {f we could give
him some assurances that in the event he lines up another
end user and in the event our Ambassador in such a country
is sent to check it out, we could not have the Ambassador
instructed to say something along the following lines:

"The U.S. is benevolently neutral towards RAY.
If you wish to act as the end user, we would sympathize
with your decision, but we are not asking you to accept
the shipment nor act on our behalf."

 

 
 

the question is going to be more academic than real. If
told RAY that our people felt he would have a better chance
of surviving if he waits another three to six months for
his attempt, and this seemed to cheer him up, but he says
his planus have been progressing very well the past two to
three months, and I can see he has been keying himself up

to the action,

8. RAY will be at home in Puerto Rico (he hopes) by
Monday night, 22 December, [ am to call him at 767-6138,
his home, if anything ts doing. An alternate contact
would be Raul Chibas in New York.

9. I made one small proposal of my own, namely that
RAY try to see if he might not be able to persuade the
Costa Rican Government to accept a lesser number of arms
as end user. He did not think much of this idea.

10. The attached torn page from U.S. News and World

Report was given ‘by me to RAY to serve as a bona es In
the event I have to send somcone to him whom he does not

know.

1i. RAY stayed last night with Felipe Pazos, formerly
ef the Banco Nacional de Cuba, now employed by the OAS.

Aerb,wbbon

CHARLES W, ANDERSON
Wit/SA/SO/CA

f

Attachment:
Bona fides in envelope

"9
 

2

I told RAY I would try to get an answer to this
and hoped if [I did tt would stick.

4. RAY then wanted to knuw what markings are absolutely
minimum for the weapons and bills of sale. I told hia I'd
look into this and try to get him an answer, pointing out
to him the troubles in the present marking system. He told
me the word “Model” does not actually appear on the weapons,
nor does the word “serial,” which somewhat improves the
situation. I told him not to do anything with the markings
now on the weapons without further word from us, because
he might do even more harm than heretofore. He says he can
eliminate the tree and JURE, which are on the trigger guards.
He does-not seem to know exactly what markings are on just
how many pieces of equipment, but he thinks at least some
were put’ on a. couple of weeks ago. I[ am surprised at his
vagueness on this point.

5. RAY finally asked the following questions designed
to shed light on just how confidential the export of arms

is kept in the U.S.:

How confidential ts the export permit? Who has to
know about it? Is it ever publicized? Does it have
to be publicized? What security rules govern tnis
matter with respect to other U.S. agencies involved,
such as Customs?

I told him I would try to find out about this, but
indicated my belief that when several departments in at least
two governments are involved, secrecy cannot well be guaran=-
teed, especially when the arms firm involved (Erquiaga) has
been having some legal troubles and is being watched.

6. RAY still thinks it would be better not to have
the correct serial numbers show on the B/L and asked if
there would not be some way to control just one inspector
who would merely check the amounts, not the markings, on
the shipment. RAY would give us an honest run-out of the
numbers. I told him there was no possibility of running an
operation against another U.S. Government agency.

7. The conversation was so unsatisfactory that I did not
raise the limitations posed by Mr. Crimming on RAY's radio
commo. This can wait until later, as right now it appears
