74-0000

pene meee

Pog nme ammeter

pone nena

TRE wert nual

ne

EEE I

oe

AB

   

 

SECK'T

LISITTN DISPRISITISN

the Caradian Press Correspondent in Moscow, Alliam
Buckley, approacted our Sxdassy informally in the aicdle of
Decexber on behalf of Jillian artin, the exeomployee of NSA
who defected to the Soviet Union in 1500.

\eording to Buckley, “artin wishes to see als parents
for cozpassionate reasons ard wants to cuow if he would be
adaitted to Canada without fear of extralitian to the United
States if he were to arrange a rencezevous with is parents in
Vancouver. “e co not know whether Martin st: 1i nas a inited
States passport or whether he has become a Soviet citizen. In
any event Martin consisers tdaself inadzissible to tre United
States.

Buckley met Nartin at the apartsent of Howard kausch,
the Moscow correspondent fcr MeGrawefill Puslications. In
addition Martin later telentised suckley to indieste his interest
in finding cut wietber or not he could come to Canada. cuckley
assumes, quite rightly I would think, that the sanrer in «hich
Nartin has nade his request indicates that his Sussian hosts are
aware of his interest in getting out of the Sovi:t Union to see
his parents.

: ‘we have inferwd our Zabassy that it sheuld take no
action to enccurage *tuckley or Martin to celieve that a visa
would :¢ granted if Martin were to make formal application.
Since, however, “artints interest in coming to Canaca is already
in a newspaperzan's hands, we cannot rule out the possibility
that Puskley uatrht write about Martin's interest. Such a story
would probably lead to the need for an expression of che Canadian
Sovernsent's attitude. In making receoasencations on the kind ef
response that might > made in the evert that a question is put
to my Minister, it weuld be sost useful to know what Hartin's
atatus in law is so far aa the United States is concerned. If,
for example, your tovernrent could rot take legal action, the
Canalian authorities would ve i: a position if tkis aatter cane
to publie attention to say they were not avare of any varrisr
preventing Vartin froa seeing Mis parents in the United States.

I should ce zost grateNal if tcrough your channels ve could be
provided infcrsally with ar irdication of Martin's status in law
in the United States.

 

Buckley's only other camsent on dartin was that he didn't
really know what to make of Hartin. Hartin seemed outspoken in
dealing with the shortcomings of life in the Sovirt tmion. On the
other hand he spoke with a slight stamer and see...i nervous.
Buckley's wiew for what it is worth is that Martin is not interested
in getting inte trouble with the hussians or doing anything which
they aight consider underhanded. I should emphasize that no sesber
of the Canadian Smbassy has had any direct contact with Marting

 

 

 
 

104-10219-10140 hs

Sa

aD DET bie te gy, Match eal OAs 0 eta mde al Ee Le Sel NERA fb enn abe eo

at ec ERS WN ca EG

sttessentes

setgnt gen

 

D ISPATCH SEPRETIRYRAT

PFOCESSING ACHON |
Chief, £vropean Division

 

 

SaUECT

KEYWAY/SHACT

2. The attachment was passed to us by SHACT/1. SMARET orafers
ta make their inquary tarough us in order to hold dawn the pusuibility
of gs news leak regard:ug William Wartin’s potential trip to sHADD.
The last thing the SHADDS want is for this item to hit the ,»ayers,
SMACT/1 says the forei,n minister would prefer that no visit tske
place, Until the laiter learns more definitively from LVUARP authori-
ties whether or not Kartin would be subject to extradition he will
reply to questions - should the sroposed visit be leaked ~ that he
has “no information,” Weanwhile he would appreciate receiving LRHARP ‘
epinion as to Martin's current status in law, ,

2. Please advise.

John W. HOCKERBERRY

Attachment: B/®

Distribution:
3 - Chief, BUR w/att h/w

 

OHSPATOCH SYUBOL 28 AUMEER GATE

OCO4-12663 12 January 1968

SETA

 

 
