toa t0d0-t0225

 

 «

‘aciereann USE ONLY ¢ CONFIDENTIAL

aan

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday - 19 November 1976

77-OoOG z/io

 

12. (Unclassified - DFM) BRIEFING Mike Madigan, Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff, called to request a second briefing by
George Kalaris, C/CI Staff, on the Agency's counter-intelligence mission.
Kalaris wasn't able to finish his briefing on 3 November because of numerot
staff questions and Bill Miller, Staff Director, said at that time he would lil
to schedule another briefing. After checking with Kalaris, the briefing ‘ was
set up for 23 November at 9:30. ‘

13. (Confidential .- LLM) LIAISON In seaponse to his previous
request, made arrangements with Alan Romberg, NSC staff, to read ~
the transcript of the briefing before the Subcommittee on Arms Control,
International Organizations and Security Agreements, Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. : :

14. (Unclassified - LLM) FAA ALERT Reached Ralph Preston, |
House Appropriations Committee staff, at home and alerted him to the
fact there has been another Presidential finding.

15, (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Larry Callahan, Department o
Justice, called to determine our interest in collaborating with them on
drawing up the investigations standards for security standards of the
House Select Committee on Assassinations. I saidT thought we would want
“to apply the same standards that were followed in the case of the Senate
: committees and Robert Gambino, D/Security, has been alerted to follow
eo, through on this with Justice.

: Little progress has been made on the security clearances and Calla
is quite certain that at least one and possibly two staffers known to him wo
not meet suitable standards of the Department of Justice, :

Regarding the "Hoover memo," a decision is now pending in Justic
on showing it to Chairman Thomas N. Downing (D., Va.) and Representati
Samuel L. Devine (R., Ohio) on a "no notés fo be taken" basis,

SA/DCI, was advised, OF

 

 

AM L. CARY
[Pr Legislative Counsel

ce: O/DCI O/DDCI Ex. wf DDI DDA DDS&T Mr. Lapham
Mr. Parmenter Mr. Falkiewicz SA/DO/O IC Staff Comptroller

. /3
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL (90e/

Und 7
