 

      
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
    
 
   
  

a awea es ee © 3eeTs

+ 7 OLS) PHOTOS ARES OF FOSSUILE OSHALO TAPOSTON I NSXICO CITY : .
In Occoder 1963 the CLA Qessaed of Oswald's visit te ths Russian Exjassy ‘ :

in Mexico City. Several photogisans wire vbtuined, presets fran a a

ane os cemera at the Exbagsyy of a stiltsuaidentitied _Eevassy | :

visitor who does not mystical} © tesemdle Oswald. This naa was. dentittes as

 

 

 

 

  

oe nieseres? “The CIA alsox had “detailed “knowledge ‘of “Oswald's « conversation a With a

guard at the Soviet t Embassy tochucing cthe face chat. he * spoke broken Russiaas o cf “S

    
     
  

on Osuald*

   

me “whether any such recordeit

 

“behates, The. cta has declined te ‘eet

  

H conversations now exist, or to release any relevant records’ fot i

, 3, br E. ‘WouaRD HUNT so ‘OF oSsaLD's ‘ACTIVITIES BEFORE me asSassi

  

ico city during august. and Septender 1963, whieh: night overlap wich Oswald’ s a

 

 

- visit” " starting, in late ce Sepeedbar,™ Hunt has reporrealy denied to the Rocket elter

    
 

a az that time." Te should be deterained if Hung . “

 

   

nowledge of amma: gerivities, ‘whether o¢ not he’ mer him. This

requires aa examination of contemporaneous cla records: relating toe Oszald,. and .
an understanding: of the flow of communications, within the CIa station, A number“

of the internal cra, communigations were turned over to the Waccen Commission Caad

are still withheld)? &, however, they muy not include alk the icfarmation needed

to determine wha in the CIA station had substantial coaract with the Oswald ‘casa. So

4. THE HANDLING OF THC SToay OF "oO" pe

: An actenac shoulé be nade to understand what role CEA personnel aight, have . i
played in building u up, @isseminating, and thea denigrating a report that Oseala

“hed received money to Hill Neanecy from someone at the Orban Eabassy in texico . i i

27

City. The circus sothace Lor e038 with intelligence “Sox: zeeci OAs wa i

  

   

 

 
 

 

Hoch : : -8- 3426/75

netiaie souccs of the story was Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte, a.

was teying to get to Cuba on a penetration misstoa for

  

the Nicacesuaa Secret Service. After a few days he repo testly retracted his

story, saying that he had made it up) to get the U.S, to take aétion egainss

Castro; then, he wuithdest this recraction. . He ul imately, took a lie detector

 

was lying; he thea said. “Ehae’ the Lic detector must be

   

test which shou: ad. cha
: Ce ‘This kind, of retraction _sudiests that Alvarad

    
 
 
 
    
   

  

analdecabte respect. “The Cla conaun-

 

 

» show that” “the

 

and the Seeret Secv'
seclousty. Alvarado Mas said’ to
‘eiserediveds the CEA described hla as a nvety sefious | person who ‘speaks: veh

  
 

convict toa,” : oe
ie is ‘known than Président Johnson was Concerned | about a Casto plot when

"OE, the. Warren Report; it has, been reported that he specifically believed that:

. the ass. assination was.a “get atiacory- act. by. the. Cuban Comunists.?9, That As,
heh: may ‘have been intended - was.

 

     

‘the ‘ppparent effect of “the: story of “DB”
to inpress upoti President, Johnson. (and thus ultimately. on the Marren Comakssion)}

 

, the “poraaciat sthreat of aa. international ‘fackden' Dose, by... the. reports: tha
_Gageta was’ “Behind the’ “asSasviaation, and (by extension) by any steernative to

  

 

. the | jone-assassin hypothesis. . : ’ . ., att
' ‘The Hacren Report concluded that Alvarado was lying about havieg seen .
Linted false sto

    

Oswald, but did, not explore the poss ible implications of 4

 

 

Ic‘ts plausible: that a major conscious ot sudconscious motivation for a coverup
was a desire to avoid allegations of cons spicacy such as this one which were,
thought to be untrue but which might lead to ‘very sertous problens.” Some
observers have recognized a pattern of anti+Castro allegations ‘atising from
incelligence-related sources, including Vacergate burglar Frank Sturgis.2?

5. CORRELATION oF VaR ous BGENCY FILES AND ACTIONS CONCERNING OSWALD *
The files of tha FRI, State, and Marines on Oswald before the assassination

reflect various peculiar actions which might be explained not oaly by Oswald

of the agency which was acting oddly, but by a belies that he was

being an agent
Such an evaluation, of course, would probably never

working for sonzone else.
de er. itten Coun; it would be detectable only throu, uh resulting agency actloas or

onissions. , ; . ; oe : :
gmaission aever cid the required kied of

 

as Fur as L know, the Wares Co

he set. up “the Warren Comission, and that: he did not accept ati the conelus ions

 

 

 

 

 
 

we Heck" ne . oe . 323/75 -

with soneone else, notably the Fal, but algo pernaps military intellige

 

non-official incealligence organization. [have studied in decail now

 

failed to adequately rebut the claia’ that Oswald was an infocaaat, aad -
how the Yarcen Conzissiea tesponded fo Hosvec* 53 obvious dispteaure ac being.

‘| investigated by failicg to, ptess for “satis factory explanations. .

an ‘For exacple, the F3n oaltted Econ thee original Listing of Oswald's : . . .

an : address book the maze of one of the ‘Bureau's Spectal Agents; the record strongly. . °

suggests

 

hat the: PE died bo. conceal the. fact that the: ‘relevant page of that -

   

  
     

wey an exaniaation of the “circu: nitnces under which these affidavits
‘ed might be productive. Another peculiar EBL explanation which the -

; 5 Comaissiion flever challdaged was Hoover’ ‘s: statement’ chat the FBI interview of

: ‘OSyald uhei he was in custody: after the assassination was AOL only to gather

   
 

t was also aimed ac obgaining wany
20.

ae 7° : facts’ or ‘admissions “aBout tha ‘shooting, t

   

_,nfortiation he mighs - shave: deen ‘aphe’to furnish of. a security natuce."

 
   

“er otic Language suggests that Oswald had been considere:

- > : 1 ¥ Secu ey infornatioa. These exaaples are ed no means the ,anky” or Soa os

  

 

“Be” UNANSWERED Questroxs ABOUT THE Cla AND THe: assagsinatron , .
. This section covers a nuaber of questions ‘about the intelligence agencles - .

 

 

(peinacity’ thi A) and the assassination which were’ not satisfactorily xesolved 9 .
by the Warren Comnisgion. (they are presented here in summary form. Further ‘ ws
. ” _o
details” ane the available docureatatioa, which comes Largely From the Cocmission’s
‘ wo C

‘ gecords, can be provided by the author.) 1
coe, ,

 

ther.oc not these questions fall ne
within the mandate of the Rockefeller and‘Church investigations, they do reed to
be ansvered, There is no doubt that a new investigation of the Kennedy assass~
ination should explore these issues, among,others. The focus here is on problems
‘where a study of the Cocuseatary record is likely to be productive, so this reno
_ Gers into oaly a small Fractica of the defects in the Comaission's case as ainst

Lee Marvey Gowald. - . oo .

a

 

etre ee sre ees aioeieeie

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: _ of docunentacy ¢

 
   
  

 

wee — oe ->- 372677357

‘fos tee Conaission the fact than it

na the Lins

After the agssasiaation, the Pet hid

 
 

to Canister by giving his address (531 Lafayette strect) withont indicariag ©

than it was the sere corner building: as 548 Casa Sirccet. Even the Limited, an OUTE

nce thich has not been ‘Keot fren the vaccen ‘Conmissioa and

  

4 dlic ‘strong! ae su
“because the Buceau believed that ‘he was’ fot in fact a pre-Castro

 

 
  
 
    
 
 
  

.

 

. ‘sthe Commision neacd, and was concerned about, ‘Allegations ‘that ‘osuaid had
een” 3 cra or “sz jafoz smant.'? * ‘The. Connissioa’s Febiittar. rested. Largely” on :

 

atfidavits provided ‘by CIA Dicector Joha Cone “aad a Edgar Hesver. 1? However,
fenders oF: ‘the Conaission had deen told in secret session by alten, Dulles co

 

tA.

the President. : ‘This fact, |-

ssion's working staté, maxes the -

a_af

      
   

 

ations in which Oswald’ ight have been appraached by.

<a ftom Russia. - ‘From the *
15°

evaluate the. specific s}
the Clas. Qne obvious. poss’ biMiey’ was" 6a tits retuy
sisting record, he. was no! debriéted by the CIa, which in itsel£ seens odd,

     

 

 

 

Unlike ane' her defector who* returned at. bout. ‘the same tine; Os syald was not - my
EY . :
ques tioned: by, the Senat a nteraal Securit Subcosaittee.t® (Oswald was mst on

    

his” keturn by a case worker for the Travelers Aid: Society, who was alsé' an -
official of an *anti-Bolshevik*® organization “ith strong intelligence caanections.*”)

The extent of the CIA's routine coverage of people returning from Russia is not

 

 

- Minsk which Catter the assassinatioa) was found to show Oswald. ‘fhe question ©

is 3; ther efore, not just whether the CIA ever contacted Osvatu f but if not why noe)

: known,. bet it was’ extensive enough to net a photos) saph taken by a tourist-in

typed) a manuscript about his Life in

 

In: 1962, Oswald prepared €and. ha
Russia which was zull of the kind of details which eight logically be of interest
s the evideace that Osuvald ,

 

to the Cis. The Warren Report's brief account av
did not keep all of the matecial which wag typst fer hia. Inquiries should be.

 

made to sce if the CIA got any of it, perhaps under circumstances which would

net have led to it being filed under his name,
has been given to sllegeations thos Oswald vas a Mla

Consicevable publicity
infoemsne forshich there is ao substantial direst evideace. It should he

Moted that it is cotsiderably sore Likely clac he had an informant telationship

338sts” thac. the FGI was keeping hands off" Oswald's activi ties, .

   

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

. Riders ftom the U.S

"this ,other than the Fat sisi ats

: "Funds Transmitted, to Residents of Russia,” inctuding foué

> Sn . . 3/2

 

af75

Hotel Netropale, Moscow,’ Russta. The FUL told the Warcea Comaissisa that “we

@atects aimed on Janay 25, 1960, thut tics. Macguceite C. Oswald Nad transniceed
4 Cawee re

the sun‘ df-.$25" co Oswald at the. Netropele Hotel; this provpted interviews of

firs. Oswald and her other son. ae! oo. : a
‘ Ic seeas atypical that the contekporary Firi- ‘report, gives ne indicition ot

“the ovigia of that informac’ ton; that ozission may Knitieate a pacticulacly

sensitive source. The recently disclosed cra project of “sekective™ intecception

The cha has -
5.

 

  

 

  
 

to Rus ta. and China Pay, have ‘Been involved.

   

The relevant FRI: fine ‘was “not ‘given to 01 Listea -

 

. -for the Consiission.” The FOL should be asked specifically about theic source

_ for this veporte

     

uba: Gomnittee. . tie. distributed |

  

eerie, afd parcictpacted: in ‘a Fadlo debate, 2

 

ker his retura.ta

 
   

z resident of Russia he was

_/ athe US." tH 3962. This seems ‘proper, since. as a fo’
: of “interest to the CIA. Ie may ‘be more significant, in terns. of the exteat of —
CIA attention to domestic dissent, that the FBI also seat the Cla .a report .
entitled “Fal ;

report dealt only with Oswald and “AL J. Hidell,” later decernined to be his.

 

‘Lay for Cuba Comnittee - new Ofleans vivision.” In fact, this

atias.® . : on . .

a an atterpt should be made to understand the disseninarioa o£ that report

inside the .Ag' ancy - that is, to see whether it was propassed not oaly asa repoce
on Oswald but as a report on a politically active group. That might lead to a
better understanding of the CiA'ts handling of such infocration on other groups.

, Fe’-should be determined LE any CIA persoanel (emplayees or inforgants) were
aware of Oswald’s activities ‘in New Orleans. The Warren Kepore says that the

_ ClA “took note of his Faire Ylay foc Cubs Committee activities in New Orleaas."?

 

There is no foatrote for thee statemenn; it aay refer only ta the” presence of

the FRY report” on the FRCe in O.nrald's cis file, but the $fouta be checket,

 

 

  

 

  
  
    

 

The FBI sent the CIA coples ‘of six reports ‘entitled “Lee » Hacvey Oswatd” or o :

 

 
 

te

 

 

 

 

  
 
  

. fuss still active ia intellig ace work, esp

ome

 

 

. th t the CRO had left 544 Canp Street some time earliec, and that Osuata- himsel€ .

nn + Maas7s

3. COMPLTERLZESD FILE ENTHLES FOR OSWALD ahD OTHERS .

 

In the Cha sile, the "CS copy” of the For report on the Sew Orleeas FPCC .

vis starged “Index,” and hancscittea notations indicate that tuo of the nares
One -

 

Geationed were incexed in a standardized fpresun ably computerized) for

was Osvald; the other ‘was Caclos ‘Bringuier, aa ‘anci-Castro Cuban citized living

in New camel . 7 fo a . .,

‘She ‘issassiaatio, but an nt explaag’ tion

proceducés. a . : a

     

tee

rae : THE S48 cat ‘P sta REET CO: cecTIoN” .
st’ provecative Link betueen Oswald's activities in New. Octeans and

   

vite 'n

he. era is. his use’ of the address. $44 Cand: Street on some of his pto-Castro
eee

 

Liseratuce. One office’ in ‘that building had, P ‘aviously been ‘occupied by, one of i :
he Cuban Revolutionary Councit, a front organization _ -

 

 

thes “two- -principal ‘of€ices °

- established bythe. CEA Geepactedly ‘through Ez Howard, Muat) in éonnectian with
‘the Bay. of Pigs. invasion. It is appacencty ‘true, as the Warten Report noted, **

 

 

never “actually rented av office there. Hovever, at_the time of the assassination, :
c ‘Banister, a former PBL agent. vho oe
istty Cuban: ‘activities. . The Banister -

    
  

 

grother: ‘OEFica. at S84 Can

   

 

 

 

    

[connect fon ui ‘Was Never. pucsued by the. Warren Co! ) :
: ly publicized. at the time of Jim. Te

‘The othe, 54% Camp cofinectioa was extensin
““goreisoa's “investigation.” fumerous reports sutfaced of “witnesses who could

 

_ Link Osuald-with David* Fertie and others who hung atound Banistec’s office.

 

vatorcanacelyGe7 9 ‘these reports cone ftoa sources who must be considered
unreliable, ane Right have hod reasons of their oxn for exagperating-this Link.
‘The most ‘promising source of hard evidence on-this matter would be a close study

 

of the pre-assassinatioa FOI and Cla records. . wo oo ; .
From a docunent not: given to the Varrea Comaisston buc released to ae uader

 

: ‘the Fr: edoin of Taforaatios Act, it can be firaly established that the FBI knew

befors_ the assassination “shout Oswald's use of 544 Camp Strget as. an address, for
the Fair Play for Cuba Cannittee. This fact was not mentioned in the eppropriate
contenzorancous resorts, and vas _appareatly not checked out lac the Cine, even

though Fay Field offices had been specificatly asked co be cn the alert for

*

  

CO setivicies, and the Snr did check our, orn ne ee’ $4 nilor tee ads (such as the Fost

3:

Qifice Gox on sane of Oswuld’s Literature, aad the alias, a ‘Je Hidedh).

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

 

 

  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  

a . ~ - -
“ ‘ >
’ so . . .
. CLA ACTIVITES AND THE WAZRCN COMMISSION IBVESTIGATION
: . . . we “Pag
“¥.-5.  ENTROOUCTLON - : : ; .
1 ae Federal tnteliigesce agencies 2 aad the Keanedy -assassidation: . ;
B. | "The utibity of 3 study.of the retards oo. o to.
Hi, THE -CLA-AND LEE RaSvEY oSuALD : on
Me | Questions “adodt conestic cla isveltigence ‘gathet ing a
- . le | Covernsenc, kaguledse of leteer sent. to Oswald in. Russi.
woe. 2. cia arrearion. to Qsusld*s policléal activities:
ue Osputectzed Tile entties for Oswald and others) . +.”

tee $44: Caz; s Street coakection- .

 

Allegations that Oswald was a CLA inforiane a .
Vnansueted. question 2S about the CLA and the assassination .
Photographs ’ at possible Qswale impostor : ia de ico ‘city,

    

Of Os¥ald"s- activities efore: the “assaasination? .

7 story of wpe °

‘Cotrelation OF Miclous “ag2acy files and: actions concerning’ Oswald
- Possible unusual-CI\ interes= ia defectors -

 
 

  

Possible CIA oon react with ‘Osuald through alexis Davison on . ~ ‘

fe. . ; it
: présence of crs Egaac at Parkland tid akoy oo, aU)
Questionadie secotds of Osuaid's ‘secuctty clearance ‘ “ott an Ju
‘alleged photo of Runt and St urs is in Dallas Oo : : ne

 

Stateneat byvJazes Angleton” . . Tee tay
. _ . Availability of documentary material... -- aoe .
' "EEE... . THE CUA AND THE INV {CATION OF THE ASS ASSENATION, . . : nes fe
AL. Possibility that information was wiehheld from the ‘Connission Se
she. False CIA statecent to the F351 on “November 22, 1963 | : a i
- Toples“on-which- distlosure may have deen Limited ;
‘ _ Marina Oswald © - . Soe.
(by) Oswald's Pore} Facts with Albert Schueitzec College ett
-€e) igigied man. photographed in hexico City.

(s Key persons tin eects = Watrea Conaission tavestigatioa
Cc. - The Cla's oun investigation of the assassination

 

 

 

     
 

ot Re CIA capability for an independent investigation | wy .
- 2. Unknown CIA conclusions *
3. CIA activities telated to critics of the Warcea Report

IV. | POSSISLE LINK BETWEER YEO KENALOY ASSASSINATION ASD CIA ANTI-CASTLO ACTIVITLES .18
as Suanary of the facturl basis for an inquiry . vo Le
- Be Link detween “Oswalc™ and a plot to kill Castro oo oe “ae
1. Sumaary of the Sylvia Odio incidenc SO ae ¢3
2s _ Connection between Odio and en attempe to kill Castro ~ 0 . 1s
Cc. Press reports interpreting ClA actions azainse Castro . : . Is

 

  
 

 

De Possible retgvant koovledge outside the CLA a a
. le Cagis for £. Noward Huact's blackmail of President Nixon . 2

. ae Huse and assassination atiexpis ugainse Castro . 22
-3. Naice House conceca . _ - tl 22

4, The Warren Cortissiva ; . : . .22

gE. Unanswered questinas in this area : 2 oF : 22
Postscript: Warren Comnission sieff speculation about the Olio incident ” 23

= os = - os Paul L. liock
March 24, 1975S

 

 

 

 
 

104-10196-10027

 

7 possible. These cecords,

 

 

 

 

  
  

. mant did not).

 

Bye tenes coors

ALD THE at

   
 

to bavestigete the role of the CIA and the For in the

 
  

(Thace is a ae
investigatioa of tt assingtion of Presideat Ker anedy. and theic relacion=
ships. with Les Karvey, Oswald.
“Gaa be checked agalase each other, a useful case study of CIA practicns is 4

23 should sheit Aigne oa “the interception of walt to Russia,

Since several aseacies had files on Oswald which \

ena conceza about Cand flle-keeping. ‘on} doiestic: political. activities, and other

 

. quest toaabid aceivictes. .. oo ye :
jut the CLA cand the sssassination { include cra

   

_Uagespived quest tons

   

3a taforasnt, anda ‘gor tact’ with. a ‘US. tncett gence operative: la: Koscow. This

 

coopezated fully with: t aigsion fas” the Fat ‘and the Defense Depart~

For exanple, the, cra may not have told the Comatssion about all

+ theic records on Oswald's wife or his. activities in Nexkeo. This memo specifies
.an - people who céund clarify > ‘the Warcen Commiss oats work with the cra

On ‘oF these. matters. tlt : mY be
2 investigated ‘the, aszasstaation ‘Roce thoroughly and Longer, *

  

* documents -
’ ‘and their: investiga
The Cra may |b
‘than the Comai'ssion. ”
against Mareen keport erbtics, | should be clarified far. the public. - - . i a

 

   

 

The results “of the CIA Lavestigation, and possible actions

Previously unreported evidence presented herve is relevant to the reports:
‘that. a. Cla atterst: to KLEL Fidel Castro may have bickfized ogatase Kennedy. . .
_ Oswald or an Yspersonator, in the cotipany of anti-Castco Cubans, visited Cuban .
; emigree Sylvia Odio in Dallas and ‘was said to feel that Kennedy should have been‘.
“shot, _These men were apparently friends of Odio’s father, who was imprisoned
in Cuva because of ‘hts role in an assassination attempt against Castro. Even
without knowledge of this fact, the Warren Comnissian staff considered the Otio .
incident very, ispoctant and speculated thaet it might have reflected a, conspiracy,
The Cunnlssion’s lavestigation was quite inadequate - for exavple, in not checking
out reports ef an Oswald look-alike in Dallas whos was affiliated with the sane

anci-Casteo group as Odie's father's ca-conspirators against Castro, The CIA's

rele in this particular attempt against Castro, and in the dissenination of .
“gaparently false storigs that Robert Kennedy feared that an autterpe against .
¢ .

Castro which he had authocized had backfired, cust de exumined fully.

t ©) 1975, = Paul Li toch

. 1735 Hishlaal PL, 25
Burteley, Cr 94703
March 24, L975

Cozycigh
MAL rights reserved
 

 

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

“ a 2 Pasentiah Ceiminal” Informant ‘for: ‘the FBI. * . im cor

. records of | one intelligence agency against the files kept by other agencies. va

“nae investigating conitcees.

   
   
   
  
 
 

 

wens ACTIVITEES AND SOMALSSTON EMVESTIGaAT Lod : Pont b
. : . a

lL, INTRODUCTION ~ an aan
JA. FEDERAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES AND THE RENAEDY ASSASSLUATION

Even before the disclosures of the Last theke months, there wece anple

“ géasons ‘for an investigatioa of improper activities By the CLA and the £8L in che

czse of Lee Hacvey Oswa id, and of the extent of the cooperation between these

  

a Comals sion. re ce ae

_ Bgeneles. and the
. After the assassins fon, ablegations were promptly. nade that, Oswald had deen

 

 

  

an “informant er engloy 2 of si some, intelligence agency. ‘Cand’ that’ therefore the:
é @ een acned. about him). Even, though the Warrea Commission +

   
  
 

   

_ €ailed to properly investigate either this

   

f the Felationships between Oswald and the

  
    

    
 

" agentes: “fot ery, the Eel. Thus these agencies wee ‘in lerge. part responsible ‘ *
Z the coverup « of auch of what the Commission: Swas, supposed | to be reporting for. -
the mectean people. - “ae ‘is ‘clear, for aap F ‘that the FBL nisled the Narren:

iles-on Oswald, and also in other ways dis= ~

   

 

    

isstor about: the eateat of its:

 

 

“couraged ‘the “‘Chamission “€roa
* Aateltigedce-gatheciag. metho’
letters to Left-wing political groups. Hoover sidetracked the Commission’ s-

     

xaniining the implications of | ‘some ‘of the Bureau's oA ..
- GeBee the interception of ‘several ‘of Oswatd* s*-

* Jaavescieation of the allegation tha Wald, had “been an FBE informant; and went ~

 

i chrough ‘setiantie contorcions to- ‘deny the fact that Jack Ruby had apparently: deen |

“THE ULILITY OF A Stuoy oF THE RECORDS | Tet

“Phe Oswald case provides an unusual opportunity to check: the practices and.

 

 

gceat deal of information has been, publis hed by the Warren Commission, made -
avatlable in the tzcional. Archives, joc preserved there but not veleased.* This

_ includes the purporced? complete

- and the Defense Bepactzent Cincluding the Office of waval Incelligence), as well

   

on Oswald of the CIA, the State Department, (+ -
:

 

as a lis t of the Fat feadquacters ‘file. There is, however, evidence that those
files are not cosplete, «and suggestions that sensitive or inpropec activities,
domestic and foreign, were not fully recorded in the appropriate files, ana
analysis of the flow of records in this ease coule provide a “control” study
w.eful in other cases. This vould be pacticularly helpful if credible allegations

of inproper C1l\ activities are not supported by the records made available to

 
 

“ > . . ot _ -2s - - M2z0s7S

g orelatiosa esd Files on

  

pouith,

      
  

conceatrates on the

 

baa in 3 bunk £ anvwetting. -This a
Sta, WLEN exphusis on specific questions relevant to domstic CIA activities,

possible CIA nandis slosuce to the Warren Con vabsstoa, and possible Links between
asination and CUA atterpts to KILL Fidel Castro. . / :
PALS uhich are cited can be obtatned fronece. where :

   

theass
7 Coples of availa’ Le docuz
_ posstote, L have’ specltied’ Khowa bud utavallable: ‘Eeeucds which might be relevant.” —

by exéluded certain extrenely fapLausiote allegations for ve

 

   
  
 
 
  

“evidence is’ weak. Charges. have even” been. made that the Cra"

I jonsibie for the assassination, ‘Despite the Lack | of evidence
; ‘they are, I think, a fatter of.

 

‘answer specific questions which

 

a: A setios attempt | to
-T-an concerned ‘that, bad t evidence tends to

-sudsta eked pubic’ concern. é
~ have deen. rilsed seers sopcoprtate, :

- dckve out good ev!
“ : Bust. not become ‘an excuse for. avoiding: mote complicated, Bue’ mote plausible; | , 7 .

        

: charges~ an Co , : ve : . :-
a ue Considecatiun shoutd’ be given. ro the possibitity of disinformation being. os

 

 

   

used vy some. inten igence agency, to focus attention away’ Froa less Sensational

bo. ° hue mor @ ‘serious charges. Within the past year: sciteéne has gone to the trouble’

of cputeing: together and: mak iB avallabre. to" some. Waren | Report civics a false”

  

National ‘Security Couneit fneco whieh GE I it exiscs ae ath) may well be the result

 

of 3 disinformation effort,” a an ‘ . . Sen, en 7
ML. THE fa asp LEE HARVEY OSWALD. 7." . _¢ wit
LASS QuesTIoNs ABOUT” ‘DOMESTIC: cla INTELLIGENCE’ GATHERING : ot we,

The first three of these questions. may not be very significant ia ‘the . .
‘assassination Lavestigation, ‘but they mighe lead to new information about the : ‘

, extent of certain questionable ‘CIA activities, | : . 't--
7 a es GOVERNMENT KNOULEOGE OF LETTE SENT TO OSNALD IN RUSSIA i ti 5
Did the CIA intercept a letter and monay order which Oswald's sother seat

to hin shortly after he eefected to Kussia? If, as the ceeocd suggests, this
did happen, uhy do the FUL and CIA Files given to the Commission not fully

.ceflect this? Lo. , : ,
The first Known FSI repore relating to Osuald stacts with the stanemant . :

that Nes. Marguerice Oswald “is reported to haye purchased ‘foreign roney trens-
fer No. 142,699" at che First Rational bunk of Fort Vorth, Texes, o2°t/22/69 by

fSeans of which she seac the sum of $25 to her soa, Lea Marvey Oswold, in csre of
° + . .

 
