 

 

 

not engaged in another invasion attempt, are not training Cubans for

an invasion, and, therefore, “cannot keep him informed an any such

activity, oo “ . 2

9. We would like to point out that Dr, MIRO has been ‘jn frequent

t

Se : Le tg
contact during the past few months with the Department of State, ‘ represen-

tatives and has, as directed by the White Hause, taken his guidance from
the State Department. He has rarely sought guidance or even utilized

a& a channel his contact with the Agency which has been continuously .

available. Many times it has been impossible to ‘reach Dr. MIRO for us

to arrange a meeting because he, according to ARAGON, was either ill,

ona trip, or preparing for an interview with the State Department or the

White House,

10. It is also worth mentioning that, as Dr, MIRO himself stated

in various meetings, it is for security reasons neither poasible or

desirable to keep Dr, MIRO informed in detail of our activities affecting :
‘9 t.
UN ty Os Loe

_ Cuba or at times certain Cuban exiles residing in this country and under our

protection,

ll, We have long felt there are certain aspects of our work which
could have been done by the Frente, but because of lack of interest or
leadership on the part of some, the Frente took the credit, but did little,
We refer here specifically to propaganda. We feel that if the opposition to”

the CRC among the student and labor groups calld be overcome, some very

 
 

 

 

FORD activities have been done with modest,and frequently without ;

We feel that ideas, organization and persone

owith talent are much | more important in these areas than | money. We

  
 

any, financial support.

 

 

would lke to urge onceng ain that the FRD and the CRC take practical
steps to work with the people | in the DRE andthe FORD. We certainly do
not want to see the energies of these groups dissipated as has 0 clearly

occured in the case of the jurists.”

12. We renew our proposal once again that Dr. MIRO have his
people come up with some propaganda ideas.and plans with or without

‘DRE and FORD type participatdion, and we will give them our most sympathetic

‘gonsideration,
131 Despite our misgivings as to the utility of the further support
of the judiciary groups, we understand a commitment has been made to

“again advance Dr, MIRO $5, 000 for the judges and we are honoring thie

commitment.

 

 
 

AAprn f new ys Cevetearebnr
Ch ur Merneas, My Eun, ees.

 

te f ba Ef oa A

 

 

 

Spee ae eS PLE HIG
LY tober 1961 sib,

DRAFT

1... It is our feeling that it would be desirable to deal with one.
oo

representative of the Cuban ‘exile movements and gmesveprewestetioe of the

- Cuban. underground, - Need for coordination of activities alone makes this

logical, However, we all recognize that both the exile movement and

the underground are badly split. into factions. It will bea continuous

' struggle to achieve cooperation between these factions, and to achieve
‘complete unity ae a practical political mater ia not very realistic. Even

within the Council, , and within the FRD,there are elements which will-

cooperate with each other on some things and not on others. The experiénce

with Justo CARRILLO and with Manolo RAY, arnong others, makes this amply

clear,

2. ACcordingly, as discussed by Dr, MIRO with Mr. HANLEY and

Mr, CLARK, in Baltimore in mid-September, there must be aher unifying and
coordinating factore than simply aduerting the U. S. Government or some :
one agency will lend support trough the CRC, and anyone who wants funds
must go to the CRC, For example, it has Bnow become apparent that

the withdrawal of support from the AFJ,as requested by Dr, MIRO,has sirnply -

meant that the AFJ has become vocally opposed to the CRC, The leverage

ZL
least wee fore A

. f a

formerly exercised with the AFJ has now been removed, a’

We were Sixcmmmonby able to keep them from cfltielzing the crc toc-vrocadly. .

3, Weare 2 sometimes dismayed to hear the charges made by Dr.

 
 

104-10227-10139)

 

 

 

4 27 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH-4
wcePHROUGH: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: ; Draft Memorandum, dated 26 October

: 1961 (attached)

.

Lot have no real quarrel with the attached document, but

I would hope that we would follow the realistic and specific
position adopted by Chief, WH-4 at the State Department meeting -.
on 26 October, In other words, we have four major points ~
_ Which need settling with Miro according to an agreed upon line,

In addition, we need to find out what other complaints Miro has |
and try to work out solutions acceptable to both sides. Finally,
we must establish a working relationship between Wendell Johnson
and Miro through which we can attempt to persuade Miro of the
need of reconstituting his cfforte in order to undertake a.more
constructive program that his present purely administrative one.
In the meantime here in Washington we ehould be recxamining
the whole question of how to deal with Cuban exiles with the
thought that we may be able to present recommendations for a
change in the present policy position, On this last point I have
talked to Sherman Kent's office and hope in the near future to
receive a report advising what the estimators think they can
contribute on these last issues, At that time we can also geta

time schedule,

2. Irepeat, however, that for the moment-let us cone
centrate on he major problems with Miro, eliminate the ambi-
guities which have existed between ourselves, State and the White
House and try to obtain Miro's confidence in order to be more
persuasive with him in the future,

\ .
lon mel BARNES

A/DDP/A ~

Attachment
Draft Memo
Original & 1 ~ C/WH-~4 w/Att
1- C/WH w/o Att
 

 

 

 

 

MIRO that we are not supporting him exclusively. We feel that if we
: —

withdbw suppert from some of the other groups, they would become

part of. Dr, MIRO's opposition, At the same time, we are dismayed at

 

- the charge made by Dr, MIRO's opponents that, .as in fact has been the case,
a very large proportion of the ‘Support for Cuban exile activities has been
given to him, The other groups claim, as he does, to have considerable
influénce over the underground and the exile communiyg. They too have
contacts in the varioua Departments ofthe U. S, Government and in-
business in the U. S. and abroad; and, a6 a long timo practical politician,
Dr. MIRO cannot be unawaro of the implications of this situation.

4 We have, thercfore, never agreed that ix it was feasible to
adopt the highly unrealistic view that exclusive support could be given to
the CRC, since some other groups a) probably would unite against the CRC,
b) could get support elsewhere, and, ¢) almost inox inevitably would
organize a significant anti-CRC movement,

5. We have, therefore, made it known to all groups inside and
outside that while we do not insist (except in the case of the judges) on unifi-
cation and subordination to the CRC, we would prefer that they at least
coordinate with the Council, ai We have actively discouraged any criticiam
of the Council whenever we had an opportunity, sate,

6. Our position has been made difficult by the fact that Dr, MIRO
haa stated or implied to representatives of the various factions that he has
high level U. S. Government sponsorhsip and thaa the factions can in the

future only obtain support through him, | He has also asserted to UL S.
ey a .

bin
Sere her

 
 

 

 

tiong line.

 

officials that he has presented ‘Proposals for, , Aesisting the underground and

‘for aiding the underground, to @ ganize and has received no support from the |

Agency, The Agency is aware.of the proposal to aid RAMIREZ, with whom at

the time it was proposed in Baltintre, Dr. Miro said he had no communica~

We still de not know whether there iga communications Une,

tthe .

or many of the detaile needed to ka desist RAMIREZ in the Escambray. If

Dr. Miro now has such details, he might paas it to Colonel Johnson a ata

separate meeting, The Agency is aware of a pespoval for a 1,000 man
invasion force psepesat which was refused by both State and the White House

before it was presented to the Agency. We nee no purpose in commenting

further on that plan, At such time as Dr. MIRO has specific plana for

Operations to aid the underground, he or his designee might demirex discuss

 

them with Colonel Johnson, ;

 

% We would like to point ‘out: that diving the difficult monthe since

 

Arpil 9 we ‘have ‘htinued to urge the internal resistance groups to organize.

in a truly underground manner, to establish i iines of command and channela

of communicationa, and to look to the CRC for guidance. We know that ina
number of instances the external fepresentativea have sought to obtain
guidance from the CRC only, after our urging, them-socdeman, We would hope that
Dr. MIRO will be frank enough to recognize these contacts, and the fact that
thru these contacts he bas been generally-informed onthe! rganizational

activity in Cuba,

8. We would’ like to make special note for D.r. MIRO that we are

 
