74-00000

 

 

C ;
S, No further action is conterplated in this matter ‘by the
_ writer. . -

Attachnent;
SR Memo (3 Feb. 1961)

KUHNKE/ewd(2~7-61)
CLOSED

 

 
 

[toe-totzo-t0a7s

“e

 

 

sp?

As
pens

 

7 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FRG 2 Chief, Cover Support Desk

SUBJECT 2” COVER ns .
(Proposal to Cover Field ‘Assessment of ~

Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682 _

1. Reference is made to the attached SR memorandum dated
3 February 1961. : .

_. 2,. The original of this memorandum was concurred in by.
Robert L. BANNERMAN, Acting Director of Security, on 6 February
1961 and forwarded to Central Cover Group. A memorandum had
been previously concurred in by Mr. Thomas CARROLL, ct/oa.

As indicated therein, a new procedure is proposed for the initial
contact and A & E screening of potential REDSKIN agents. This
would considerably reduce the number of persons who are briefed

on Agency interest in thé REDSKIN Program inasmuch as those persons
who are rejected as a result of the A & E testing would never be:
briefed on the CIA interest in same, as is currently the case.

3. This matter was immediately brought to Mr. BANNENIAN's
attention in view of his previcus interest in reducing the number
of contacts with CIA redantials. He concurred in the pro-
posal as is indicated above, with the verbal recommendation —
to the SR representative that,after the plan has been found
feasible, possibly two or three junior personnel be ‘assigned to
conduct this testing on a full-time basis, rather than utilize
such staff personnel as Dr. GOLDER and Drt who are openly
associated with CIA. These junior hologists would then be

represented with the cover concern,
) And would not become associated with OIA, thereby
obviating the possibility of embarrassment to the Agency and/or

 

 

 

 

 

_ possible compromise of the cover asset involved.

4. This memorandim is being written in order that it may
be brought to the attention of appropriate components within
TOS, ineluding the Investigations Branch, inasmuch as the procedure
will have an effect on IB, i.e., the number of REPSKIN cases
will be reduced since clearances will not be secured on poten-

i {_ tial candidates until they have been favorably screened by the

A & EB Staff (see paragraphs 3(c) and l(c)le

 

 

 
