 

Va/

 

 

sd

“20

we

RAY was unable to keep a decent dob after bis dismissal

7 by, Castro, and he was under constant surveillance that

practically amounted to house arrest. In spite of Castro's
precautions, however, RAY maintained contact with the MRR
2a3, through members of that group, with anti-Castro move-
wents in and out of Cuba. By 3 June 1960, after he had
become nearly destitute because of the impossibility of
eaployment, RAY's followers and associates began to plan
his exfiltraticn from Cuba so chat he could become a more
effective rallying point for anti-Castro movements in exile.
RAY, bowever, decided to remain in Cuba and participate
directly in ‘elandestine activities aguinst Castro. He
joined a group eslled Accion Democratica Revolucionaria (ADR)
and soon became one of its leaders. The ADR appears to be
the first organisation of its kind which can be considered
& serious threat to Castre's regime, and has been the target
of several overtures from the FRD to join forces. One of

the primary reasons for the ADR's attractiveness is RAY‘'s

connection with it.

 

 

 

HEY STPR

7 September 1960
 

 

 

 

(04-40192-10046] °°.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Manuel Antonio RAY y Rivero

Manuel RAY was born in Habana, Cuba, on 13 June 1g2k.-

. He was educated, in Cuba and became a very able constructica —

engineer . In April, 1958, having become reveilious. under

; ithe Batiste ‘regina, he Joined the Civic Resistance Movement

(Moviniento de Resistancia Civica -- MRC) and was named -

7 soeretary-general of the organization. At the sawze “eime;

he decane a neuber of the national directorate of the '26th-

of-July Movement and was responsible’ ‘for coordination between

the two groups.: om

RAY worked closely with Figel Castro tor the reat of

1958, travelling frequently to the Sierra Maestra for con=

° ferences with bin. After. Batistea'a fall, RAY was appointed

‘Minister. of Public Works in the provisional government of

Manuel Urrutia. Ray took office on 7 January 1959, and on

“the same day he was also put in charge of the Rational Bread

"Board. : : . -
a, 70 clk
Although RAY remained a liberal end continued to be pro= : ound - ae
Backers Reproduce

revolutionary, ‘he became ‘ncreasingly resentful of the c0n~.

munist domination of the ‘Castro regime. His dtesatiofection

vbecame known to Casto, and in November of 1959 be vas re- : ae

placed as Minister of Public Works “by Captain Oemany

Cienfuegos, ‘a communist: Preaumibly he vas also dismissed

from the National Bread Board. : . . ;
