104-10192-10274

“The “plan ‘was: aperdved by the dorkero’ Coordinators. of the NLRB.
o* a meeting which took place at the office of the Rattonal ~

 

del Pueblo.

MINISTRY OP THE, INTERIOR
104-10192-10274

| rn
: : . ' On hearing that at, the Finca ‘urra,'situsted
. on the ront between. satay and Ulcana, the proper?

+
.

 

Odio and his wife Sam cel lerro, ous jclous ace
tian ‘was carried out which S@howad that
‘ploma tie

args diarfatres

we of Coloabia.

taking place, an inveotica

this finca .wao- Crequventiy vinited ty mamber of *°e

; corpo accredited in Navana and particulady by the ¢

. mo, ‘of Venezuela, sefor Zurbardéa.and the Chargé daft:

! It was also taou found that the ftnca was visited ty Antonio-Reynold
Gonzalez and his wife Teresita Alvarez, who {8 Gt resent abroad,
and also by “aria de los" anceles abach Pib, who acted as a link

. with Embassies anid who placed the {ncendtary bonta in Fin de Siglo.

On July 13’ aixteen diplomitic. revrepentatives of varicus Latia .
ling any from Brazil,

   
     

 

   

 

re ‘american countries visited 3 finca, not inclucins
me, “oS Sexteo.and “cuator. These) slonate held.a meeting wich anador Odio

  

L Torre witch lasted over two hours. They recained in
the flaca until.1 a.m. and the last to leave wos whe wife of the |
- ChargS d'affaires of Columéta,:whu took with her in her cara large.
quantity of meat and lard ‘or. co.u.nter-ravolutionaries in asylum.
On one occasion the cha:sé d*éffair-a of Venezuelan took Antonio :
ieynold Gonzalez and h. nbach Pib to his Hmbassy order that Marla
2 night epeak to her brother, s‘uardo, who was ina = (ie used to
be the producer of the television progricmne. “fan Soa"). At
the sane tine ieynold Goozales ‘iad discussions ¥ other asylees.

and Sara del

 
 

  
  
 

 

who recently carried ot an act of sabotage ~
in. the warehouses of La Rsyonera at Luyano, was a raated at the .
Flaca tlurra. &. Habach Bid was She tea¢her of the children of the
“Shargé dtaffairas of: Colombia. Another diplomatiwne visited the
finca was Flvirn Zayas, the Charcsd d'afculres ef ama. Sefior
Gilo ang his eife, who uad deer supplying the counter-revolutionarten
in asylum in various, ombaesies, were arreated. irice to anril 17,
the date of the Invasion, the entagsy mith which wh. ned
the closest contact was that of Venezuela, ¢fter the invasion the
H.P. continued to recain {nm touch with the Yenesuelan chargé a!
Affairea who introduced the Colonbian and ‘Vanananise Charaéa d!
Affaires. The M.R.ir. gave #1,00C a month to tha nesuelan
Exbasay for tho maintenance of the asylees ane als> paid for the
passazes of those. who left the country. The Ver an Imbaesy..
served all the counter-revolutionary "roups, accesso. an excessive
number of.azylees, took into ite charge papers anc pessesafons —
and permitted asylees to fo ont of the Enbassy and return. 2

keaynold Gonzalez,

    

  

 

  

 
 
 
  

 

 

Tha Fnbase; of Italy has also served co ntaermrevolutionary
froups, permitting auch leaders a9 Pepin Fernanze: Badus to stay
{n its residence, und algo taking avatlable tha divlomitic bag
for the corresnonmlance of % e orranssations. Cn one occasion
the dinlomstic bay wan used e- to tring from lifamt a
report from Ignacio s. de ct . 4 eas also ueed to
vring tn money for the W.2.C.;,

   
       
 

Unidad etc.

of persons arreate’ and woapons

There follows. loar: if
havana and neighbouring, towns ./

Jdscovered in various warty of

Por twa months the leaders of the MVRLP. had carefully sade
plenned an assassin: ttor attempt esainet Comandante Titel Castro
and other ldadern of the Sevolutionary Severnzent but this plaa a.
wag frustrated by the vigtlanaa of the people an the oportune
intervention of the Cepertment of «tte Secur}ty.

5. .
104-10192-10274

oaf-ced Uutine went to the Uc. and

the “...b. havince

y had prepared a plan of a-reaston acainst Cuba on behalf
of the State copartront Indienting what resources he would need
how ft was to be directed ¢'c., Mores mins toth the. .1.Ad and
hio fellow cons: irators in Tuba, is te e 3.0.4. Bas by this ‘time
predoninaat in the soverasent of the fe #8 rokat ef crisis had
bara renctet. The replacement of © s & prerequisite for the
vole. Continriag to support tha v.0.P. Gree Tay iad been dis-
rate contact with officials
af 6 3.2.4, @ state Cen rtuent ant tie Covc+t? of “iré ahd
Varonn. watyt wfterwirla Urnesto alse xert to tke 1.5. and
recowmended “ufinoa ito his masters tna ered. oF an odvedien?
and f- f'hful peraon; “ufino thus reee'y the ao preval-of the
Atrectcra of the ¢ ane recuined there sa represe: ive of

tha “oe.

 

  
  

 

  

  

 
 

     

ufino lind interviews with verious cfftetatsa of the 7.1.A.
and oleo vith a hich official of te State “enort-ent naned
Coottin, tits heinc arranwet throuch a fournalis* in 4tami named
“al Uerdr'x. Socdwin indte: +e! ta m the -nesessity for ‘the
MOE.D. to reenter the Povolutionary ‘ouretl @trected by “fra Care
dona hu ie irus tec friend of Nenredy. Atter these interviews
“ef'no faleormat M.ose fa Tubs of. tha T.7.A."3s conttttons for help-
ine the i. .5.3 there were Licedinutely acterted. These difficult-
ses aristn, out of the exrulation of Lny having been resolved and
‘ teen ‘nada comnletely autservient to she C.1.A.
and to the evolutioniry Counet), the begin to receive
C.T.i. els $n the fora of tonsy, xs) n@ wenrons. Tha C.1.A.
arant ‘rneato returne? to Jura to centinua ‘iis work of osubversioa
and sabotage but was a reated !a the cecrae ef his travels by the

Separtment of State -eeurtty.

   

 

   

   

   

 

   
   

 

 

 

the fannedy Government {fa preparian a new
wiry. Up to t's rresant it in planning
to use an and Latin eriean nercenirtes, including Cubans and
fuarsto “fenna who telonved, ar hve belonvea, to the Gnited Jtatea
Army. In t:ta cor:axt there are trainin> campa tn ‘lorida,
Ceatral aAmeriea, the domingenn sepeblic ant tre island of Vieques,
nevr Puerto ‘feo. ~ Yorkee Covernment proposes to une against
Cuba certain Certml anertean fovernments ancl aa Cuntemala,
Mlenravua, “esta Rica, ete. ant in this connerion there have™
taven plac’ recently meetings betwoern the coctanders and offictals
of te forces of these countries ordia f American Ambaso-

adarn creatied over by ‘lester oowles.

Ao {a bnown,
nerassion nvaias* our cc:

   

   

 
    

   

EOL

 

tnternal situation

are prenaring, the C.i.A.
the - fur they to

s which beran in

“ith the absece*t of creatine tn Crbaan
fav oriwie to the aeresatve olans which th
Fave crecine tnatrauctiongs.to toe lestery
rut inte nractice a vast claq of *erraris? act
‘tember, ant which, {n accordance with the sicne of the C.1.A.
wid to cr nate with an attemet on the lite of the .rime Minluter,
ir. ridel use wan that if they “eatroyed about
y dozen of actoatl ne epotes$ eeticg would ba neld in
front of the Hresitential i .ace and woull take advantare of
tuts ake ‘her attenct acatnet the lite of the Prime Jinister
and other seabers of tte voverrvent. “he “esrrrtnent of ctate
Security feune ont the olan of achotare andi by adostiny -eansures

and the peoples,

        

 

 

       
    
 
   
 

       

a

  
  

 
      

  

    

of extreme virllance ith tue aumrt of the owe

sveceeted in frustratia= f¢, arveoting macy of the plutters and

cans'n: others to flee, avson; tho: the ringtral niser, antonio
tne 3rd of cetober.

Vectana (“Vietor") who teft the comtry on
104-10192-10274

 

i, The agsansinntion atterpt aan to take slace ‘rim apartnent |

fa-on the 6th floor of a Sullting No.29, tverida de ins Hisloneg, .
into. which had been amuccled a bazooka, orenadeas and oths> weapons,

‘The ".R.P. had, befére the dite set for thene acts of sabotare,
reorganised iteelf in the followinr way:

‘": °° Coordinator in the United Stated’ Tanieto Gonzales de
Sendoca ("Rufino") ot
Katiinal Toordinator : Antonio Reynold Gonsalez.’:
y Gonzalez — : . oe

' Eational “irector of scticn and _ Antonio Veciana . alias — 8 te
Sabotare “Vietor" or “Carlos” _

 

fA long Viet of other leaders !s also given]

The plan of satotage sugrented by thoC.1.4. wis conatdered by the
tational Coordinator of the “.h.?. and other counter-revo'utfonary.
leaders who decided that it woul be executed by the: Military
Operations Section, with the nseistnance of the vorkers' Courdinators.
The plan envioa,ed a series of acts of enbbtare on Sep‘ember 29° 1n
the antionalised storea vin de Sirto, J. Vallea, sears, and the
restauren’ of tha “Capri” hotel. 4A)1 these were to take place before
the qacagoiniticn atteapt. “he substage of Yin de Siglo wae directed
by rnesto Amador del fifo, alins “illo”, Provincial vorbera!
Coordinator of the . hehe, wh. ‘o rive two incen?’tary bombs to
varia ce loa anreles Abach i.ib,. the sec tary of Antonio. ‘eynold
Gonzalez. 3he wag to place them In the store but the viceilance of
‘the people orevented this act of snbot.ce from bein- committed.
Poth were arrested. Tho oerson tn ctharre of te snbatage of the
J. Valles store was Antonio Veclana ("Yietor"! or “Carlos"),. who
succedded tn eacnning tr {ted States. VYeclann cave two
i. incendiary to fon eg “adl who fa eaid to belong to the
wabotage veetica of “Neseate", and who fa clonely cornected with
Veclana. ‘le oave then to a couple who have not yet been Identified
but here agvin the vintlance of tha people srevented the anhotage
from teinr cor tted. clarn sna also in charge of -the snbotare |
‘in the Yotel eriiund cuve tw. inecerttary bosbs te Coaquin Alau-
. garay, an ernloyee in the eréctnurint, who fe at srasent un¢er
“arrest ané whe safd thit he was not able te place the bo BG Lo
sabotuc in the lenrs stere wid in the hands of cuan and DP een : :
alias “Anibal! wo was the Provincial Ufrector of tetion and cnbotage
of the “.2.'.. Two days tefore, that iy on ceptetber 27,- -rneato
Ansdor del ‘fo, "Hn$l‘o", and Vactina asoke ateut :
Talin Jorre “fas, tattenal “renasvrer.of the 9.5.7. and as?
to place two tncendiary. howhs ts this store. Thes s{cked her up on
5th: Avenue ant 42 Streat in “iravar, fn a white 1954 Pulck .and .
exniained the mitter to “or;
miacfon. .tnter they returned her to +
thas she wuld a oat the corner of 7
5S. pet. on Vriday, .antenber 29,
“annel Tequimto “fas ("Antbat").
un 'aita at te strent coraer in
and trove srourd until ©.45 co
towards “ina treet, taling out
tha 3e rth “ia teeth,
thay t n corre “fag. |}
- af once to the

 

 

 

     

 

 

    

 

 

   
 

  

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

turned {nto aniatad Street
tno Incen*tiary bomns, breaking
the: ready fer use and siviag
rot sut of the car and went tnto
soni floor and plaeires the envelope

 

 
 

  
 
 

   

  

lanra.- : l
contalrd one of tha beh bomue 'otrean the rolls of cloth cna
tables ar done this she went down to the cround Tloor and

other bond but was Viscovared by one of tha

 

trfed to slace
employees ard arrested.

 
 

104-10192-10274 .

e

 

 
 

104-10192-10274

 

 

 

 

     
 

    

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
. * Records Collection Act of 1992
. .4Q4. USC 2107 Note). , ; 8
NW 53217 6/20/17 :

>)

. oo (is

 

27th “lovender 1881

 

   
  

sB)oe Eth Nove:

go tdace, one
former seerel
of the leedere of ta

ic

3 tet the
ayt dias but b
yp sad one

: the only ome

  

S eome are chill clive. amoag the >.

Shs

eo eee

 

 

 

  
   
     
104-10192-10274

 
 
  

aE Ss oar
tA TG ae

TET AUSA SINACION
{ER 3B" TATIVES CP OTHE
2D PY THE VIGILANCE OF THE

   
     

RG ali SABOTA:

    

  
 

    
 

ovd-

tonery ormanisati on
: ( was crented about the
middle of 19°G.by “anuel. Ray Rites: ith the object of firhting
the Cuban ‘evolution. ‘Curine the tiranny Ray aspired to overthrow

The velf-atyled coun‘er-rev
milemto Pevoluci.carfo a1 “vebl

the ré-ive.of Fatinta tut to leave tnatact the rule of Imnerialism
and of the oliearehy which cerveé it in our co: satry. ‘hen the
evolution beer to Surue cati-tmrertalist an@ natienallaation
lavs ia; did not heal to ket {to an’ then to tare refuge in

the covntry of his Ya ba

   

emaaterr. In his last daya as “injater
of fublie .crko and taking acvantare of his hirh poattton, Ray
Segin to conaptre with lie frier’a fren the of hia clandestine
at rupgle " ant Pattsta and to orvanise the .0.F.. The ‘.R.P.
19 " Counter-revolu idonary orgentanticn w ose members are drawn
mainly fron the well-to-do midéle class, avons them -rofoesstonal
recvle, senior euy;loyees, aufalinta eletents of the tele-tone,
electricity an? bank worrers urtons ani also disnadenta and
traitors fron the e6th of culy “evelutionary Vovenent.

   

Ray aspired to be the favourite chile of the Isperlaltots
‘hanya to Nia reaations wits tue Uo. “eonrtnent of vtate, but
when the United States broke off relations with uba tho CATA.
took over the ‘irection of the ccunter-revolut! n. hay, on
sceiag that Tony Yarcna and iri dardona were oreferre’ b: the
2.1.A., adopted a somewhat untiactslined attitude an* after the
fatlure of Plava Girén he left the evolutionary “ounetl" of Vird
and Varcaa, 2 move which clearly Afnpleased hoth the '.1.4. and
the Stite ‘epartmert. Tay and ha apaaelntes fn the ..f.:. tried
to fin’ support atonr einfler ce -le in Latin Amerion and vemaded

-onulo Ne tancourt, ‘uvoz “iarin mad *f.nierea to lend suprort to
‘heir cuunter-revoluticnarz plana. In various interviews in
Puerto @{co and 'aracoa hay ontat neiorvoronise that thease covern=
meats woul cooperate ‘n sunvlyin= war asterial, sasea and money
for ¢ s en: aferarevoluttonar: attaexn on iris. ‘he J.].A. however,
Asnerfican Tovern ent to intervere and pronthit {ts
z from au-ncerting any attack: other n that being organised
by tle ©.1.Ac, and which tok clace {in trrfloat Playa ifrdén. any's
lacs of alsei: line resulted In the '.1. securin” hia expulsion
from th -RaP. and the guhatitutton of m more docile lackey naned
Tenact). Sonzalez te “antoza, alian “ ufiro” who is at present in
the ‘Initad ‘1taa as representative of the Peowhte: is now
closely connented with the .I.%., the St te Nenirtment and to the

“Touncil" of ‘irS Cardona ard “ony ‘arona.

 
  

  
 

  
 
 

    

   

ys

   

 

  

 

 

  

atréa the

   

months nrfior to the tn anion of Flny
struttionsa of the 7.1. berin to confit acts of
botaze

Jin cess
104-10192-10274

 
 

fn coor ration with te “Sotho of Sweater vicvamens". - All
acta of sabota-e liad ne thoir ottact t'@ erention ef ar

of Ofsorder and chaos ard oto: ryehelasteal conth
te the invast : thea plasnatna-. Until the treating

off of ttsloamatite rela sobassy fa iavand sicplied
econcric ait to the ".8.0. ant cava visan to Ita meters, aa ft
did ty. other counter-revoluttonary cr-uoo. The =nbd sy also

Vsrovited war snterinl, explosives, aras, ete. throurh vartous .
Yankee offictala anone wisn aay be aentloned ona called Dew tt and -
ancther who used the anre of Pancho. link with the U.S. Estanny

  
 

  

 

ro

    

 

   

 

 
   
 

 

at this time, ‘hrouch’ whoa the ‘.P.F. reatvet 1‘ none 2 Arts and:
ex loatves, was tha gub-coorfinator of “.i.l. naced olfo clanaroo
who used the false nane ‘of “/ugenio". after the breakine off of

relations the C.1.A. used for the irtr~ tuction and a@tutribution of
exploatres anioaraa.n “roun of Subana wio hnd recaived svectal |
training tn ‘camps fn “lortta, Fanaa and Guatenala;— ,
amore whoa may de nentioned the C.T.A. a-entsa Cawy Comellas,- Jorge:
Cozellas, one Omar and Fancaoio Lin-ris and Mario #a- sip, wio were
introduced {nto “uba b: the .1.4. 40 nake contact with, ant to
try to unify sone crouns of workers -ri-r to- the {nvasien. which
they were prepariag: ta Suatenala. wha Savelooase of canatdaaro
was alao-used for the entry an! ext! of clan ats of the “.4.F.
the S.5.R. and other orctintaat fons; ane cf tuese was the trattor
ex-Cosandaste MMetato Dina. Tha 0.5, also received. ialp from
‘he reactfoanry and falanelat slerry, escractaily econontic help
Droucvht by tha “ranselacaa Sré Julian 4a Pastarrica,
Tha priests algo mite avaflatle the “.2.P. the La Calle, Vedado
and centro. Tfvico Schools {a which to hol’ aeetines, Othe! prieate
who hel-ed the “sh. 4, the 1.5.0. and the .3.e. were Pr.angel.
‘fvaa of Santingo de Cuba, Br: Letrsc of Jacaviiay, Pr. Vllaverde
ard Te. Avano S.J... who wan the adviner of. the Js 9.0. tn 'avava
and. closely conrected 7ith “ons ignor | Rinardo Boma vaavidal. Tr.
Toais Ubrrabal sade avaslisle the orn ge prose of the masazine
“ha Sulneene" fn wetch to store pronieinda and print counter-
revolut'onary preprcanda. “latholie Orcantsa:ttons auch.ag the
“A.S.U., the Caba!leros atslicos, the vatalleros de Coldén and the
Paras entélicas and evrcetally tha oor ‘ard the cuven tud ‘gtud-
antil Catdiien also helred.tha i.2.7. an? the 4.5.0. >

 

 

    
  

 

  
        

 

  
  
   
 

 

 

  

   

 

rén ant the consequent arrest of

The fatlure of Tava
ene croups of traitors to

connter-revolutionary clenents caused t
tecote demcralived ant disortantated : their rcoition wan made
worae by the crisis in the S.1.4. ftvelf which ended with the .
{famisaal of s}lan “:lles an2-other offictala. In July, three Ob:
~ontha cfte:s the evasion, thea CTA. aert to thas country one of .
its. n-ents Yrown na urnesto, Woese rev) nae te liond vuids Kederos, )
a Cuban whose fob {t was to mae contact mith the '.i.0. ant other
croups ts -‘ancourare then ant to tr: to srovide than with economic
att, exrloatves and wenpons. “irnest> ved @{reet in-trucgions
from General Powling unt Tererel 7 or, was then ouserviaiag
the °.1.4.. ese cornversationa,*Sere taok: art ia th name of
thesv. ionnalesr de Johe who at presant

ein othe “altel avonp the instructions

   
   

   

   

  

 

      

 
 
 
   

 
     
  

   

reoresen s i . :

Cw'joh Uraeato brought fron the 7.E.t. for the | + Was that which

require} fon of “anuel ‘ey from the .! « “His request
leg de Vendoza) and others.

   
 

was conaifera? be Pufiro (Anac te. ar)
wie isreed to the 4¢taniseal of * wt
decistona without oreviously cor?

the grounds tht ne took
chen.

 

 
