 

   

ne gil.
MINTQUB/, 2wner
Bréa,Yiris 6.

 
 

a

a
Usually discreet about his/freequent/meetings with Soviet
visitors to France, Aronson told me today quite a number
of things on his latest encounterg with them.So first he
said he spent an evening with Mrs Biasheva ~- a theatrical
critic from Leningrad.It is not the first time he met her,
so she told him "that for the moment in Leningrad is quite

 

have more difficulties than ever" and once,talking about the
Tchecoslovaquia events Mre B. told Aronson : "please do not
attribute to us the opinions expressed by Literatournaya
Gazeta - we the intellectuals of Leningrad were dead opposed
to it/the invasion/".

LP Rat ERR TS meme

From other meetings Aronson had lately with Soviet visitors,
namely one correspondent of "Izvestia",he got also impres-
sion of a particulary tight “gajim"/turn of the screw/which.
is felt presently in USSR,eapecially in both capitals.Then,
he said,he got the impression that in USSR the intellectuala
find themaelves more and more isolated from ordinary people
which,under the action of new directives given by the autho-
rities becomes “hostile toward them".What are these new in-
structions given by the sov.Guthorities ? - "To apy each
other and particulary the intellectuals/whom one cannot trust
to fight foreign influence and manners,to be proud of thoir
great comm.party,to become true proletarians"."Apparently -
said Aronson < the party turns now toward the "base", toward
the lower layers of the population in order to find thera
support against the upper circles of the population who are
fa fed up with the régime".The new directives,Aronaon told,bore

 

petceeg pene pee tein

 

fruit particulary in Moscow,where according to all his intere

leocutors population became lately hostile toward the forei-
gners and toward their own intelloctuals.Also peopie in the
street,in the shop became particulary rough and un»yleasant.
Bveryone uses "“unprintable" expressions,which spread 8lso

among the youth and in the sdpols.

Aronson related also about thevening he spent recently with

the First Secretary of the Bulgarian Embassy,who with his
wife were guests of Aronson in his restaurant."Contrary to

what I expected - said Aronaon - it turned out that this Bul-

garian diplomat is definitelly anti-communist minded,and ie
set against the Soviet Union". "It surprised me so more,ag
‘ usually Bulgaria is considered the most friendly satellite

of USSR and also because in the embassies of these countries, i

the First Secretary is a particulary trusted and powerful
figure".I asked Mr.Aronson if this attitude of the Bulgarian

?

Y bn hyp A. p7asS |

  
 

OFPA~ F940 FH p) a

a difficult oppressive atmosphere," "that the intellectuals §

 

 
 

$04-40069-10041)

1 Boos (dior teleoaS torecuinantitcad

thio®, soviet Bloc Divieion
of, Buropaan Division _
— a4 ay
a atnt Fe: Station.)
‘9 REDTOP/ASREGATTA/2 1.
fie. Redranrin Precuonted hy foviotn and bis anark on ghtening

a
pen

“controls on intellectuals in the USSR. 2. Lead to Anti-
Soviet Bulgarian First Secretary.

2 :
“REFERENCE: (orPa) 88716, 2 December 1968

to have contact with Soviets and apparently as indicated in d
ABREGATTA/2's xeport, forwarded under sepaxate cover, with SOVBLOC |
officials as well. .

1. As mentioned in the referenced dispatch, Identity continues
ij
|

‘2. %Identity's report on repression of intellectuals in the = f
USSR and a racent tightening of the screws as he quoted an investi
correspondent is also of interest. In this report please note
ASREGATTA/2's report on a xrecdnt traveler ta the USSR described
in (ops) e081.
‘ 3 th :
F gad? 3. Since there are three First Secretaries in the Bulgarian
< ERR soy wa could not identify the official. It could very woll
oo SEGWAP but Station cannot confirm this since AGREGATTA/2
‘dindigated Identity did not volunteer the name, and as experienced
in the pas¢ with PAINBERG, will not give our names. The Station
will try again through ABREGATTA/2.

Lhakasana fa eegort ow porsitle onk- Soviet
aiatads with Gulgertan tT See, possibly
Wenfs sirswap >: Goa

i
I
l
H
j
i
f
|
i
!
id
t
i
i

Attachment: Report U.S.C.
a BAS 28RD EY As foul
Dist: 3°~ c/sp w/att uss.ch,” 1 YEek fel
3 - C/EUR w/fatt us.c.

CpaTGN BYEESL La RURLEEA “Toate "
= BS

CLARZICAnGI
SBCRE*

 
Secretary was not intended in some provocative purpose. So
Aronson replied that he did not think so : because the Bulgat

rian diplomat had no reaso to provoque him.Aronson noticed

also that the Bulgarian diplomat expressed admiration for

all of those theatrical authors which usually are particula-}

ry hated by the communists.When Bronson asked him about the .
theatre in Sophia’and if they could produce there buch plays .

ag. they wanted,the bulg.diplomat replied that thank God in se

that aphere they were in Bulgaria still fairly independent
and that so far

Moscow did not put its noze into it.

e *

w

My comments ; Two points in the statements of Aronson eall
attention : First about the "new instructions
and directives” given in USSR and Second :
about the anti-communist dispositions of the
First Secretary of the Bulgarian Embassy in
Paris./If the later is true,it could be quite

a "“possibility"/.

ong

   

AODUCTI

 

APERTURE CARUREP

i
i
t

 
    
       
    

Avpendix A.

Lev Adolphovioh ARONSON /often called Mr. Dominique/, owner
of the russian reat." Dominique"19, rue Bréa, Paria 6,tel :
326-63-92. ~

      
     
   
   
     
     
     
     
     
        

Personal data & character. Mr. Aronson is a curious figure.

A very prosperous business man,he is rich.He possesses a uni-
que collection of russian antiques. He is also the best theatri
cal-oritio in Paria.He contributs regulary to the russian
magésine “Vozrojdenie".He has also some relatives in USSR
where he went many times.Of Jewish origine he however is de=-.
voted toward old Russia.In his restaurant he entertains con-
tinually Soviet visitors and he probably is in Paris the man
who meeta the most Soyiet citizens.He is: well acquainted to
several members of the USSR embassy.

He is no doubt very intelligent.He is also pleasant,has good
manners and like to entertain people in his restaurant.As to
his political opinions judging from what he always says and
always writes,he is an awowed anti-communist.

Werknow him since many yoare and we are with him in excellent
terms, though we never became frienda.He has a high considera-
tion for Z and now writes also for RM.

 

   

74- 6-73.92
