13-00000

 

NOTE: = lao) included
information the Chief of Station) had received
from ._—- |-on 8 June> ~~ jsaid that he
had teen providing information on ZIMERI to the.
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miami. . {did not mention names but
described one of the Americans as about six feet
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds .

4. The Guatemalan report of the-assassination plot ends
with five r requests for information, _l an
a .

 

 

Is “ZIMERI still in.the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United
States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

¢. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
_ United States for possible use in. . : an
Guatemala? : . St

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind ‘of preferen-

‘tial treatment by U. S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as”
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to Guatemala?

e, Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING? . .
5. On 19 June 1976 - ; nd Stas

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State
Department. ;

. 6. Office of Security indices are “negative in pertinent
variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING. .

. 7. From the name, physical description, activity, and
alleged employment, it is apparent . that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of. ‘Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six- -foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as
of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
‘company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no- record) in
Miami, Florida. .

2

pret see
Sebel

 
104-40048-10123

 

c

 

ll.June 1976

 

‘MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

' SUBJECT a ~HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
oy “SFR 429 229
1. On 9 June 1969 _ op

contacted Staff: and Operations Branch/Operational ‘Evaluation
’ Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING. ;
owas referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING .
file. When _ i contacted the writer, _-_.’ advised _that_he
is the action officer for a cable from | —!
reporting an as$assination plot on the life of President °~

 

 

 

LAUGERUD of Guatemala, | ‘was unfamiliar with the case of .
Gerald Patrick. HEMMING.and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file
on HEMMING, ..  -/'was requested to alert ~~ ~ “and JMWAVE

 

' to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a
copy of the. report. coming in

 

 

 

2. | provided the writer with ‘a copy of the cable
CIN 944357, © .), dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a ¢ Guatemalan source,| |
| provided

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to the informa-
‘tion the plot was to‘have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however, one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Miami since August 1975. a ;

3. According to the report, the National Liberation
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,
Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING, ~ The, ‘HEMMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and. New Orleans.
E2. IMPDET
CL BY 063994 x
Yoo,

co oD.

i

 

 
13-00000

8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,
the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMVAVE. On
numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's, HEMMING
had clained Agency affiliation when in fact there has been
none, The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services
to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long: =ine cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),
aka: Frenk FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who “also has a
long- time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In

« the late 1350's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter ..
Claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

. Central American activities which he named the International
Anti-Communist Brigade. .A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING.’. . ;

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of -
a Guatemalen ‘government expose of this assassination plot
involving HENMING,. you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by.
Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat
in America~~The CIA and the Assassination of John F. Kennedy :
is a diatribe a; against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,°
Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-
nental Penetration. Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in 1867 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON" s investigation.

v
we

Jerry G. Brown
Deputy Chief
Security Analysis Group

Atts
