104-10221-10001

ee . =

ie. Valter. At Wat tine ws br, itlaze 0 nasher of the governs
tr, Berle, to, he was act, i would Like to qualify tat to tte : :
conse: 411 of the Rumatas oovnony at that tine was unter the govire- :
tent, and $0 isy de that bie office in the steel works, of vasen he
aa host, could be construct se a govereneat offtcs. in was not 0

!
!
:
|
|
I political offtes of the goverment,
F , hr, Walter, Ven did the Groza government tate over?
; 9 : kr, Berle, The rosa government cuecseded tho eovernnent of
i Radeoeu, I taink {¢ would bo March, 19h3, I have to check with these
| _ dates because they follow alesely us the nikitary eovensate,
H hr. Walter, You do not seriously contend that that vac mt a
| Commit govergnant? , s ; 5
i Wr. Berle, 145 sot. 2 contend 10 as certataly 4 Comiumiet : :
i gorernnent, It waa collaboraticalet geveraasat, united frost govern
sent. Tait lo to cay, non-Conmuniate vera paraitted la that goverment
en walarained thenseives, Sowly beleg olininated oss by ono for she
eat to yeare,

Yale was te escord or angporsd te he ta accord vith the so-called
| a Falta agnessene ohich coatemplated ential front goveneoate, ;
Tho Russians ecupelled the appointment of the officers thoy wicked

 

 

i . in the govérnscat, en tolevetes for a porled of tins the othere,

. Valter, You wero tare of ‘the notes of srotest to the govara~
oo. meat Socanke of tho ellaged violation of the provisions o? the Yalta
poe agreenrat?

: Br, Borie, Yeo, I woo ta, Prisil et the sige, I certainly uas.
I wen Cotag whee Lethe I could fren the Drastiica goverueont exbecey
te belp dleag tose motes,

. : I dheaght “he Tales dgreazens Bed bess elolated aluoct frea the

 
104-10221-10001

!
‘
1
f
i
}
i
i
:

 

 

   

wonent the Russiaas cans in, I would like to say thet I do aos thiak

{0 te fair to ettck o single sofividual vith tho 1asbilty to navigate
thas citcatioa,

I think {8 19 grosely and bopelessly unfaty to charge hia vith : i

taving colloborated with tio Comumtots at @ period vasa cur om policy .
waa. ia tho making. ;

On that baaie you couls oxelude almoot overybody in all of the

irea eurtata countries no matter vast their previgua record hed been.

2 feat ayeolt that a very erase injuatioe bao been done, I my
ad4 I fool so asre strorgly because the men viw really are rosponslbie
very largely for thio bringing us of this roint sro sea Wis theasel roo
hero equally collaborated vith the previous-~

Nr. Valter, Who aro they? .
Mr. Berle, I thish Creteianu, vie appeared befors the Vepartcwst :
of Jostico, te really reepouridls for atieriny tate up.
You ooo, gentienss, thip to really nothing tut 9 Salima intrigue,
Taore Ls the so-called Hoyolist iarty, Timt fs largely headnd by
* atepatstanu, end who apreare ea the conplatonnt ners, snd vir to likevtee
“eajaying the bospitality of tas United strates.
Mp, Palser, Ye ore weeny chouts pans, Extady 16 apsesring a6 0
eomplaizant. Wo novo calfornly daleved fres the Liste of asuss thoes
“people to in out Jedgmsat are ia tte Ualted States #0 a8 ragult of soap
sort af whaly conagetion vith the Commantot grvernzent. This lo not
2 deviaties frou thet policy, ;
W, Berle, I do Bot thtak co,
Mr. Valter, Whea you cay. vhotover thia a2o's age is, to a
cuuplainamt you aro Just esvrong ¢9 you caa be, :
Hr, Serle, { should howe qunlified that, tir, Coagresensa, Ho eas
© conplatzaot bafure the Dopartnsad of Jestiees, You vill fini in the
Fooerd bo agpsared to give e7idezce, 13 was ho who really stivred 14
104-10221-10001

j
t

  

=)

—
66
te Narbey, eosts2led under a pile af lumber oo 0 ehip. tf you call

that callaboration, I suppose that is collaboretica.
t ona ouly e44 that the United Statss hee boon refused to doing

. $20 oeme thing in the case cf tie four Fliers, oo. you caq hardly i

Wess Nalese,

You sated opootfically tov be oot bie asit visa, Ba got it very
largaly because vist wae loft of the non-Comamist elanwste, vho vere
GtiLl peraitted some tenuous pooittes in the Cocmumist aovernneat,
wtil £0 vas completely sorsisnt sod in 1957, did try to get Yala
ape bis wife out.

It may alo bo oided that In neoking his ontt visa bo wo
ratlior paverfully supported by the Anortean exbasoy, ' recall that
Hr. Bosaoo wis tho Avertosa Feprocentative to Rumoto, and thot Xr,
Barnoa, who hal vurked wita Malema io the carlier ported aftor ths
alliod erates were to ooswpation, tried to give bin euch help ag
be could,

Fat, I thin, is the otorys It 19 very chort end very alngle,
Tare fo ao grave Hyatory about 14.

I vould Lite to cay that our thea Chior of Uleoton, Mr. furtoa
Borzy, wader dato of Jusd 8, 1986, wrvte u letter witch I would Like
to pet in tho recard., Tie te etéroace’ te My, Ficolas Malaca, Sushsrest, ,
zed 10 68 follovss ; a a

“bear My. Raleret :

“wih to informs row that I have resolved o telsgres fren the
‘Deyartaans of State that the Amsricen exQasey in Faria kno deon nutheriasd
to greet joa a vies for Four trip to the Uatteds Gtates as a mumhor of
tha éclagseien from the Bumatce-aesriesa Charter ef Coszsree.*

Tam t 20d tind the vien ws 0 vids ts viet Hector Basops
a © caster ef tho Buwatentmrioon Chater cf Cosmas, of which
im, Majesp wo 6 presinest caster, T waliewo on efftoer at tho time,
   
   
      
   
   
 
      
   

 

104-10221-10001

“ls woo ) partis 88-3 Peault of tha rather: tort Saget tations watch “ths”

 

         

: Buzaaten govorazant wag issn having vith Ruseion oeeupying force, for

brief partes ot tim, the parey thicn ‘walaea eopouses la Rumania, -

   

tke paray. of Gsierai badeouy and wath: é

     

Gate there emi. onid suet 1% wad ~ frtematy cervornnoat

Maleza got Bio exit pommit ta “ips, ond thereafter devoted Miesolf

  
   
   
    
 
   
   

 

to tryiag: to bribe or reama As wits ona. obits, 1 maagion that Lact

 

bosaasa 10° 10 freely wata tint be cove, GtA¥d fe the Cocmalst eorermneat,
Sia to true, .
‘Ba tine extsavariag to Bay ost Mo wife ard hte child, feo gifts | noe os

 

 

€18 got: covceplica taste purposu. 40 the ext of 18, with the Daly, ;
tied of en of tha Azoviecas, Ma wife eed chiMd FlenLly 414 secége
104-10221-10001

 

 

Qppsar aa a witeses 18 tte Ravine before tbs Dogartacat of
iraigretioa,. that to, the timigration Departscat, and elese I thax tke

“Peserd Of that ocanteves to tefore thts coma ttc. I vill not repsat 10.

i, Balter, ve weld profi you confizs your etetensata to the

period ececquant to 294, Me havo the Flee fer ths pari’ boteass

1936 ena 19h, bue vo would Like to beay bev thie can was ahls to ob-
toto the Geonesury exit derumeate fron eho Gumsiles gorse,

    

 

 

 
104-10221-10001

     
 

- palley. of the allioa ond wie the policy df thea United states,

 

by than bat nad 9 sterieatt ties “Aa ye8 te, bo tat doen

-TQDh Lt Lo of rocend tet tao Gay faztory thoy 44 soles wae
ame toner, capropristiag ats etoal pleat. i thing they dia that

       
 

"Tato tof Rian a clatn tn Roinate fer Mo eee, 0 alata agatas
MMe cas goverasces. ho cataive of the Rotary end the edecqumt

 

 

eagrtiattens tap © suAjost of ancpttetton betcum tis Reston grote

S58, tcm bed Commit ont eraCommntot clensats tn 1t, cof biesalf, : sie
104-10221-10001

 

 

~~ °
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

COMONTTEE ON THE JUDICDaY

_ SURCOUNITIEE NO, 2

Application for Nicoles istara
Section 4, Displaced Parsons Act

Hashington, D, t.
Pervary 25, 1952
104-10221-10001 sono

Released under # e John F. Kennedy Assassination : :

Récofay Collection Act of 1992 / MATERTAL RUVIEDED AT CLA HEAUQUARTERS Iby
USC 2107 Note) Housk
53216 6/27/17

    
      
   
   
    
    
  
   

 

    

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSAS SSTEATIONS STAFF HMENUERS

 

FILE, TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: {0/4 err en LA, fi
see Qe

 

 

INCLUSIVE DATES; ,
CUSTODIAL UNI'T/LOCATION:
. ROOM: _ . 2

cau eEnnneereeeeneneecee ree eS

DELETIONS, IF ANY: _.

“DATE
RECEIVED.

  
 

BOT REVIEWED BY HSA,

|

‘NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROW THIS FILE
104-10221-10001

 
 

 

   

Application for Bicolee Kalaze
Bestion & » Dieplaees Perouse Act
: oune ot. Bigreseniestvee,

Subcommittee Bo. l of the
Committee on the Judtelary

ener, robrary 7, 2952

, the Stool tree at at 10100 « o°elscs 0.0.,. the Hon, Preset 8

Valesr { sto\trmma) prestéing, _
er. walter, The oomaittse wid od ‘to order, Teo eatter unter
eexstSaretioa ie the fotlura of tbe acdecenit tes. a aati ta a con-
owrest veculation the mane of Bicolse walazs, vbich naw ves Subeat t-
tea es] ts Attoresy Qcasral, ; :
wer, Carusi, if you apysar for fr. ielaes, we vill be glad ta bear
Ou ptm out vay we were La error Wien us 414 not Inclute his BAe te
the eamaerrest resolutiog, ,
7, Corset. with gow seralseton, Ry, Cimirunn, v9 abouls 3Mko
Wry Sscd Go tae Er, Serle, wis, as zou mow, Fequented of this cum-
Bitte ea oprertealty te give eon wrellatcery Lesresslene of his own
oA the mSgest, to do wst fret, If war is egromble to zou,
im. Miter, OF coures, ty. Birla, you acdsratend beotten bor
eh Shessoned Fernsao 49% givas the Attorany Gomerah thie authority?
SUAEGEST OF ADOLTZ A, MHZLE, JB.,
A7PRELD Ga Beale ow aicaiag
ALARA
sy. Berka. I mterewnt ume,
So. Wale, 48 this lat f wllk tascrs that eestion ta tho

" peenve,

"tar. & {o) acy Alden tSo (1) cotarcd tne Batead Sates prisp
% Agvi2 30, typ, amd me om tet date tn ene Gauoad erates, or uf
be Seo Daumerily abears frea to By eey ‘aane sa tad dato fey

s
104-10221-10001

@deaice, ond’ z 2) to othervise ofatesinie wader the enterontcs lixe,
ent (3) to @1 eptacea porsca reetding in the United states ae fo-
. finet {8 thie oection may, withta two yoare next folloving the effec:
tive date of thie Act, as amended, apply to the Attoracy Gsaerel for
i . © CAjuotnent of bis umigration statue, ot
i | TIE the Attorney General stali, upon consideration of ali tbe
: fete ond clreunstancce of the e200, Setermine thet euch alien bse
-beéa of 6004 moral charactor for the proceding five years anf that
swoh alten 16 qualified under the proviatons of this Bection, the
Attorney Geieral oball report to: the Congress all of the portinent

 

facto in the cass,
“ie during the oeaston of the Congress at which 8 case te reported,

i ov prior to tbe oot of tho oosaion of tho Congroas nest following the
eesaicg at valeh a case ta Teported, ths Congreag Porees @ concurrent
refolution otsting io aubstesco that 1% favors tha grauting of tho
atatas sf permanant Feeldence to such alien the Attorney Cenerel is
: at authsrisod, upon receipt of a fes of #18, Which aball be doposited ta
the Trenoury of tho Uaited States So tho secount of stocalisecous re-
; . cot pte, ‘to vecard the adateoien of the alten for parmnent rasideneo

: wo 9 88 OF the dat of the alten'y leat entry fate the Ualted states. |
ae : “If priog to tha oad of the ceazten ef tn Congress nant follows
ae : " 8g tie ecseion a6 which 'a-cace {9 reported, the Coagrese doog not pace
” ee : Sask ruoniutlon, ths Attorney Gerurel etal! thercugea deport eveh alica

: in the saamsy provides ty lev: fvovided, Taat the sumer of dl oplaeca

4 Parsuad Who shail bo grented the stetas af poraaseat residence: purssant
2 thid seetica umall act enced ¢ifteca theucsad,

“Dpen he Guat ef este ef permacot rentdenes to Cech alien ea

i | rvvited fer io thie epotica, We Marctizy of sate enh, Lf the
Oltea cae @ quote tnoigrent ot the tise of enery, reduce by ons the
tesklerotion quota of ths enmtry of the eliea‘e uotlomilty 20 defined
1B eartiea 19 of tho Innigrotion Aet of tay 88, 1908 fur tas Fiecel year

Nee ee

  
