 

 

 

hevepaper and left thea for him to pick up.

é

.o7er7

. ega-
wr aS
lene tee we/k/Cr
om 1
Subject + (dump given ber by Castro agent in Mian

Bete 3: 10 June 1960
Pres t Saery Yerasdor?

  

a ee

Pricer to her departure fron Hew York, June Cobb visited the
Cuban Consulate in Bew York City aa requested prior to her departure fros
Yevars. Whkle tnere she was introduced to an American citisen named -
Bernie Brunner, a newspaperman from the “ieal Seach tun. 3renner ie o
friend of Cobb's bows Juan Orta, the ddniristrative assistant cf Fitel Castro.
Brenner gave Cobb « note in an envelope that w.s sealed for delivery to
Orta. Cobb epened the note ami copied the corte::ts which were as follows:

|
:

"Tall "O" that Hany (Manuel) arques i -4.: 4) ds “wot, real -
The Peds ore on tim. Aguirre the -riest fin ered alm in “
"Menendes in Key sest worke ir the poitoffice is be‘ng watched.
There is « fed working richt trere i+ tse nost office with Tim

They heve some letters sarxe? just walties for aie t

ds's not. The itate Jepartzent - - Also te.l'em rot to use those
replicas of doli.r bills tie tourist :eo.-trent fe usin: with

something written on back".

 *George Louthwort.; ie working witn tvs feta. JT sot um ieerk wth a
"les" (lesbian) and a straight cirl wii some -icture- one nizit.
He said he wos guing to put the sh.ft to “apt. Duerra.®
*Teil Joris “sdrone wio lives in & y 19 -pt. building «ith a saby
by Orlardo :adrone that tue feds sre tr-ing to get tc her. Bidel
brought ter to Cuba because she Knew sc-e tuings she shculdntt

know",
"arquez can go to Cuba the 13th*
*Oecar Facires ie being tailed, 74 our tail",

aa oe Snetaeesamaninee ined

June Cobb called wee cars Director of L. |
tivo gh whom I originally me s6 Cobb, asking :im to contact ve for ehe had
&@ messare for me. calles <@ st 10ne and I called Miss Lobb at 8
% 3 he 4 1

phone booth in the 26'
to trumteieittex
Terminal in New he everirg of 7? June.

erence

 

@. She told me of the above, 1 had her aive the notes:
She passed them to ‘idx at the Sast Side +ir!ines

HK
According to information given verbally by Harry Herasdorf, when Igor went

to the airport and approached Cobb, she waved him away.

He waited at some

distance while she acritbled away at the notes; she then folded thom in «

Harry did not say whether she

walked away immediately after leaving the notes, or whether she folded ther
dn the paper and thenwited for the tuo supposed menbers of the Cuban Consulate

te join her before bounding the plane.

dP

 

 
