 

  

Department... Then he asked fa. Ped GORBATENKO to come in.
He was filling in for the Chief of the First Department...
He took-me to his office... dell, they decided to put me in
the First /U. S. Embassy/ Section and called Yevgeniy KOZLOV,
the Chief of the Section.. He came in and said: ‘well, hello;
Yuriy Ivanovich. I heard of you. Well, if you're finished
with him, I'1l take him along with me and show him around.‘
He took me and talked to me for a while and then told me to
report... Either the 12th or the 17th. I don't remember.”

, 25 April 1964: NOSENKO again described the KGB question-
naire and autobiographic forms he had filled out at home and
recalled that he had also signed a secrecy agreement in the
personnel office. He also remembered that he had made several
additional phone calls to the KGB personnel office and described
his second visit there to talk ts ROZHENKO: “At the end of
February I was told again to stcp 1n the Pass Office and pick up
a pass and go to the same floor, but another room. They told me
I would have to talk to ROZHENKO today. He was a Chief of
Section, of the Personnel Section, So we had a talk. It was
the same thing again. He said: 'Tell me about yourself.‘ 3ut
he just wanted to look me over. And after that they said: ‘All
right, we_have not gotten all your documents yet from your
fmilitary/ district. So wait.'"

26 April 1965: NOSENKO recounted his conversation with
KOBULOV, saying that it took piace at KOBULOV's dacna in Usov,
where he and his parents were visiting in January 1953. NOSENKO
continued: “I was called at my family's dacha in February.

They said it was State Security calling and that I was to
report. I did this on the next day. Probably I thenreported..
to House No. 12. As officer talked to me about my” education,
service, and so on, Biographic questions.. Then he gave me a
blank for my autobiography and a four to six-page anketsa (bio-
graphic form). I filled these cut at home. The next day I
called in and was told to come to the Eighth Entry. The officer
came down, and I gave him the forms and photographs of myself.
They said they would call me. i did nothing from January to
March. January was leave. In February and March I was at GRU
Personnel's disposal," After STALIN's funeral NCSENKO was
sunmoned to KOBULOV's office. His assistant, SAVITSKIY, told
NOSENKO to wait, After more than an hour had passed, SAVITSKIY
sent him to SHUBNYAKOV's office. There he learned that he would
be assigned to the U.S. Embassy Section and was introduced to
the Chief of the American Department, GORBATENKO, The official
order appointing NOSENKO was issued the same day. the 13th or

ASth of March 1963,

24 April 1966 (signed autobiographical statement: Again
NOSENKO said that he had spoken with KOBULOV at the KOBULOV
dacha and set the date at 1 January 1953. The document con-
tinued as follows: "I saw KOBULOV for the second and last time
on the day of STALIN's funeral in my father's office in the
Ministry of Shipbuilding in March 1953. “I had come from the
sanitorium to Moscow and dropped in to see my father at work...

' In his office I ran into KOBULOV as they were gathering to go

to the Dom Soyuzoy for the funeral. KOBULOV said he would

/ concern himself with the question of my entry into the KGB.
“fhe same day I returned to the sanitorium, and several days

later, having completed my treatment,. I returned to Moscow.

 

In the middle of March, KOBULOV's assistant, Colonel SAVITSKIY, .

net me wince tne nee

 

  
 
 

 

 

wise wll Ttelbed Oot “oan

 

 

 
  
     
 
   
     
 
 
 

   

92.

_ealled me at heme and told me to come see KOBULOV. KOBULOV .

Gidn’t see me and SAVITSKIY directed me to the Deputy Chief
: ..@£-the Second Chief Directorate, Colonel SHUENYAKOV...

. + SHUBNYAKOV told me that an order had been signed appointing
:me a case officer in the First Section of the First Depart-
“ment, Second Chief Directorate. SHUBNYAKOV called the Chief
i o£ the First Department, Lieutenant Colonel GORBATENZO, and

introduced me. . Then I went to the First Department ‘and was

 

! Chief of the First Section, KOZLOV. KOZLOV sdid_I would_take

! over the cases of Senior Case Officer, Captain /Anatoli
TORMOZOV and suggested that I. begin work the same day. I was
accepted for work in the MVD in precisely this way, It is
necessary to note that none of the workers of the MVD Personnel
Administration spoke to me, either before or after the signing
of the order assigning me to the Second Chief. Directorate of
the MVD."

 

introduced to the Deputy Chief of the First Department, and the

 

 

wvaditnbaeattt sh Dae aene

  

i

Sat ae
 

‘90.

8 April 1964: “It was February {1953]. KOBULCV was in
Pebruary - in Moscow.” He was our friend, He said: '0.K.,
George. TI help you if you want, with the KGB.’ I remember

 
 

--exactly. Yes. It was-in February. I saw him at the cottage... =

By this timé?d had been in Moscow six weeks... KOLULOV was in
February. He went to see my father at the Ministry. It was

the end of the day. It was late and my father invited him to
come along to the summer home. It happened to be a Saturday.
KOBULOV's wife: stayed in Germany. He was just here for a short
poY.* My father invited him to spend. Saturday night. and Sunday
at the dacha... On Sunday we were playing billiards and KOBULOV
asked me what I was doing. I told him "nothing,' that I was at
the disposal of the [Gru] rersonnel Department. I said: ‘1
don't want to go back to Baltiysk, to the Baltic Sea, because T
don't like the work there. I'm not doing anything there. I get

no satisfaction from the work.' He said: ‘Well, you should be
utilized somehow... Do you want me to call the KGB Personnel -
them look you over?! I told him: ‘All right.’ He called, and

he must have given our number to them, our home phone. I was
called subsequently by the Personnel Department of the KGB. In
February. They told me to come see them at Houge No. 12. They
had a pass for me... So I went. Picked up my pass and went...
[NCSEXKO next gives a description of his route to the KGB build-
ing, his. receipt of a pass, and his visit to the Central KGa
‘Personnel Office.} They talked to me. This man - I don't know
who or what he was - asked where I worked before and all that.
He said: ‘'O.K. We'll request your file from GRU, We will check
you out and will let you know whether or not we will take you.'
That's all.” NOSENKO was asked whether he completed any forms
or questionnaires. "No. Not there. They gave me three copies
of forms to take home. There were so many questions. About my
parents, my education, my residences, addresses. I filled all
this out... Finally I completed all three copies and called
them. I was told that this time I would not need a pass,. that
we I should just. go to the entrance, and the person (the personnel
an officer] would.come down-and take the papers from me. I went,
, brought the papers, and he took them from me, and also three
copies of my handwritten autobiography... Then I was called by
the personnel people once more. And at that time another
officer talked to me, and this time I knew who was talking to
me, because I was told to go to talk to ROZHENKO [first name
‘unknown, later identified as a Section Chief in the Personnel
Department]. This was in March... Just as soon as STALIN died,
KOBULOV came back from Germany immediately. He must have been
sunmoned by BERIYA or someone. And so, in just a few days -
evidently he did not forget ~ I gota call. It was Bogdan
Zakharovich's assistant. He told me to go to the central
entrance, that I didn't need a pass. I remember it as if. it
just happened. I went in the uniform of a lieutenant, but with
a civilian overcoat. This was, maybe, the 10th of March... If
gat down [in KOBULOV's office]. JI thought it would be for five
minutes. I waited there almost two hours. The assistant came
out a few times and told me that Bogdan takharovich is very,
very busy, but that he would give’ me an escort. Some senior
_. lieutenant came up to me and told me to follow him... We went
_-up to the sixth floor of the old building.: I -remembér: it as
though it just happened. I sat there about five or seven
minutes. Then I was told to go in. 2 announced myself. He
gaid: ‘Yes, I know. Sit down. My name igs SHUBNYAKOV, Fedor
Grigoryevich." He told me he was the Deputy Chief of the”
- Second Chief Directorate and that they had talked things over
and decided. He said that they wanted to offer me a position .
in counterintelligence, in the First Department, the American

%HOSENKO had been told by his interrogator shortly before -

 

 

i
ry
i
|
7

       
    
    

  

 

 

_ that KOBULOV had been stationed in Germany and net in Moscow.

  

 

d

 

reat at

 

  
  
 
 
  
      
     
     
  

by the KGB entry commission when he first applied in 1950.
Therefore, NOSENKO continued, he hed been trying to conceal
this fact from CIA by moving events back a year, for he thought
CIA would not have believed him if he reported that he was
first rejected by the KGB and was later accepted.

2. Circumstances and Procedures of Entry |
Although NOSENKO has consistently associated his entry into oo co | ‘

siti

    

  

  
 

/
asses

the KGB with his discussions with General KOBULOV,* he has been
inconsistent concerning the content of their conversation, when
it occurred, its relationship in time to other events (see

Part IV.B.), and where it took place, at his father's dacha or
at KOBULOV's dacha. Also, whereas NOSENKO said in 1962 that
there were virtually no administrative formalities prerequisite
to his entry, he recalled in 1964 that he had had conversations i
with various KGB personnel officers and (at home) had completed i
a KGB questionnaire and a biographic form. NOSENKO was question~ 5
ed at length on these points during 1964 and 1965. As a result, iL
he provided lengthy descriptions of his various interviews at |
KGB Headquarters and of the questionnaire and other documents ne
completed. In April 1966, however, NOSENKO reverted to his boo
original statement of 1962: There were no interviews with KGB :
personnel officers, and he implied that he had filled out no i 4
official forms. His various statements are presented in chrono- :
logical order below.

th

setvntetined cont tatasb dite

9 June 1962: "KOBULOV was at our dacha. Well, he is a great fa

friend of my father. He was First Deputy to BERIYA, and my !

father was Minister of the Shipbuilding Industry... A conversa-

tion simply began. He said: ‘What are you doing?’ I said: ‘I'm i

working in GRU. 1 worked in the Far East and now I'm working f

on the Baltic. I came here on leave.' KOBULOV said: ‘How do t

you like the work?’ I replied: ‘Well, speaking honestly, I |
i

- don't like the work.' ‘Well,' he said, ‘You better come to work
“ with us. Where do you want to go? Into intelligence or counter-
“ intelligence?'... I did not want ta go into intelligence. I

consider that only people who have seven, even ten years’ ex-
perience in counterintelligence work should be sent to intelli-
gence. After this, let them go into positive intelligence. Then
they know how counterintelligence operates...Well, when KOBULOV
-.asked me where I wanted to work, I answered: ‘It is better, of
course, to go into counterintelligence.' ‘wWell,' he said,
‘Good. Look, drop in to see me for a minute sometime.' This
was Simple conversation. Nothing official. A week later I
got a telephone call. They were calling from Fersonnel and
told me to stop by. I went. ‘Come into this. room,' /they told
me/, ‘it's not necessary to fill out a questionnaire (anketa).
We have already obtained your personal file from the GRU. Go
v4... @ireetly to the central entrance. A pass has already been
: issued for you; the pass is already there; Go to the Secre-
tariat of Bogdan Zakharovich KOBULGV.' Well, I went. KOBULOV-.
had been summoned somewhere high up in the government, and his
assistant received me. ‘Hew about working in the American De-
partment?’ he /the assistant/ asked. ‘Well, good. Go there.
_ gight now.! Well, I went to the Second Directorate... His
_ {KOBULOV's/ assistant sent me directly to the Second Directo-
rate, the American Department, the First Section, working with
American correspondents.“ oo - JAE

be tiaibie rie eLE ntinenibetin eine IRL sats Athenee oe

ibis casi Siglo ee

 

   
   
           
     
 

* See Part V.B.1. for further references to. KOBULOV.

  
14-00000

   

87.
; “91 January 1964: Yuriy Ivanovich GUK was reassigned from.
the KGB Second Chief Directorate "in something like 1952," oo

HOSENKO said, “exactly just about the time when I came from
the GRU to the KGB. He was already gone by that time."*

   
  

  

February 1964: After his defection on 4 February 1964,
-NOSENKO prepared an official statement about his biography.

He said that he had entered the KGB in 1952, and he shifted

‘the dates of most of the events during the. 1945-1955 period. one |
year backwards from the version given in 1962. - This was dis~
cussed with NOSENKO, and. he repeated the new dates; he then
studied and approved an official statement on his biography

(for the Intelligence Community) which contained the new dates,
including his claim that he entered on duty with the KGB in
about May 1952. : .

6 April 1964: Confronted with the above inconsistencies,
NOSENKO said that he returned to Moscow in August 1952 and during
the same month had a conversation with KGB persor:nel about getting
a job. The interview continued with the following dialogue:

Question: You came (to Moscow) in January?

i
q
+}
!

NOSENKO:s No, it wasn't January, it was the second part of
1952. Yes, before that I was in the GRU...
Maybe - if I tell you 7 ~ 7 September - maybe
it was 5, I don't know, ;

ata seet

Question: ...What date did you enter on duty with KGB?
NOSENKO: I don't remember.

Question: Early September 1952?

writs abinolnte.

NOSENKO: Early September 1952, yes... I came and the
first few days was sitting in a room with
KUTYREV, RAKOVSKIY, and GROBOV, in Room 615. :
Yes, it was 7 September when I had joined... .
7 or 5... And so the first few weeks I had been oo
reading cases, studying forms; I worked like , i-
that (during) December, January, February... ,
No, it was March, yes, after STALIN's death,
after the reorganization. And at the end of
March I was transferred to the attaches cases...**

i

 

ethattent

 

_¥ This would place the entry date some time at the beginning
of 1952, for the KGB defector GOLITSYN has reported that ms
GUK was transferred from the Second Chief Directorate in
January 1952. ; . . 4

 

    

*#* NOSENKO later settled on June or July 1954 as the time of, .
: a this transfer. Part V.C. covers the period when, according
0 i°, te NOSENKO, he was engaged in operations against the U.S.

- military attaches in Moscow. eo

      
   
 

   
   

J 8 April 1964: The interrogator pointed out to NOSENKO that
he had on different occasions dated his entry into the KGB as
January 1952, March 1953, and in September 1952. The questioning
continued: a

   
 

Question: Which is the truth?

 

did I say it /the other dates/? You see, I

finished the Institute in 1949.. Then I defended

my diploma, and then came the State exams. I.

passed all.the exams except one - “Foundations o
Marxism-Leninism! the philosophy. And I had to

take all the examinations over again. All of ;
them. -I took four, passed three, flunked one. 4
Just the same, all four had to be taken over i
again. For that reason 1 graduated, or I received
the diploma from the Institute in 1950, although
officially I graduated in 1949, This is an un- i
pleasant thing and I did not want to mention it. i
And right after that I was sent to the GRU.* The

rest is just as I told you, word-for-word. This

was the only thing. And then, after I said it,

I did not want to correct it, To twist around

again, And the mistake I made was about my work

in the KGB, It was not 1952, of course, but . :
1953... It was 12 or 17 or 15 March, KOBULOV ' i
accepted me right away. STALIN was still not ,
dead and I was already accepted. March 1953,
about the 15th, about 15 March 1953.

NOSENKO: After the death of STALIN, in_March 1953. Why L
E
|
f
!

 

a
4
2
J
if
A
$

i
i

coud tee gh oa aoe

—

26 July 1965: "At the end of 1952 I came to Moscow from t 77
Sovetsk in Primorskiy Kray+ near Baltiysk. I had worked in the : -
Naval Intelligence Point (MRP) there. My aim in coming to fo sf
Moscow was to get out of this work in the MRP. I couldn't : |
stand that work. I couldn't stand that work... I arrived in :
Moscow at the end of 1952, December... I don't remember exactly
the date of the order appointing me an officer in the KGB. It
was 13 or 15 March 1953.” ,

- 17 April 1966 (letter to CIA case officer): "From August '
1952 until 1953 I worked at the Intelligence Point of the Naval
_ Intelligence cf the 4th Fleet in,Sovetsk, where I received the

rank of lieutenant of the Administrative Service. From 2 April

1953 until 4 February 1964 I worked in the Second Chief Direc- :
torate of the MGB-KGB." :

 

 

: . 24 April 1966 (signed autobiographical statement): "In
the middle of March /1953/ KOBULOV's assistant, Colonel >
SAVITSKIY called me at home and told me to come to see KOBU- wy be
Lov... I worked in the First Section, First /American/ Depart-
ment from the middle of March 1953 until July 1955."

   
 
   
      
       
      
      
  

27 October 1966: NOSENKO reaffirmed that he entered the
KGB in mid-March 1953. He said that he had lied when he earlier.
said that he had joined the KGB in 1952, and that he knew he was
'. lying at the times he made these statements. Asked why he had Y
lied, he replied: “There was no sense." NOSENKO then went on a
- to explain that because he was only an average student and
because he was a heavy drinker, he had been found unsuitable

 

T"Since April 1966, NOSENKO has said he joined the GRU in.
1951, @ year later. : oo : :

  

 
 

 

| FHOSENKS has admitted recently, however, that he never got

   

 
 

    

”

NOSENKO'S KGB CAREER

Introduction

During his 11 or 12 years’ service in the KGB Secorg Chief
Directorate, NOSENKO said, he rose from case officer tu deputy
chief of a department and from lieutenant to lieutenant colonel
(or, as he has stated more recently, only to the rank of captain).
An English speaker, he had specialized. in operations against
American targets in the USSR as he steadily advanced to higher
positions in the U.S, Embassy Section of the American Gepartment
{from entry on duty with the KGB in 1952 or 1353 until 1955,
and from January 1960 to January 1962) and in the Tourist Depart-
ment (from June 1955 to January 1960, and from January 1962 until
the defection). His duties took him to England in 1957 and 1958,
Cuba in 1960, and Bulgaria in 1961 as well as to _ Switzerland in
1962 and 1964; also, NOSENKO made numerous trips within the USSR
in connectioca with operations, inspections, ard conferénces.
Commendations, twice accompanied by bonuses, were awarded to him
by the KGB Chairman in 1956, 1959, and 1961 and by the tiead of
the Second Chief Directorate in 1957 and 1958; he was one of
70 Second Chief Directerate officers awarded the Order of the

‘Red Star in 1962; and in the same year he received a meal for
completing ten years of "irreproachable service, "* Thus,
according to NOSENKO, his defection ended a promising career
marked by promotions, responsible positions, extensive travel,
and many honors.

 
  

 

   
  

 

A

NOSENKO has discussed a Large number of KGB operations, in-~
eluding some in which he had a personal role, either as a par-
ticipant or as a supervisor, and others conducted by other KGB
personnel in the First and Second Chief Directorate about which
he learned through his professional and personal contacts.. : s
Those in which he played a personal role are covered in this
part of the paper. All are included in Part VI. The text of
the paper distinguishes the information from collateral sources
and investigations from the details which NOSENKO has provided
on the same topics. : .

4
5

 

 
  
  

 
 

any awards at all in the KGB. |

   
   

 
  

    

 

   
 

MATERIAL REVIESED AT Cha. RGR SEES -Bi-omineinenesmeaty
; ‘{e4-10240-10068 ia: ammenities Prot at
. . HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASGASSINATIONS STAPF MEMBERS

ce ae creme RAY

 

PILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUIE:  OASE OF _ 7 waa Lita OL ete oo!
MAE Ke LE ERS yee STupy )
Wee. pages mney
INCLUSIVE DATES: _ L FELT Z)

CUSTODIAL UNI'T/LOCATION :

 

 

 

 

 

Taree heen ammeter eect ly

 

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

LRAT AES. LTT See. Lo ‘

 

 

 

 

ING OFFICIAL

    

 

     
   

 

OF REYVIE
ahs 8 ok

 

bein Kus BI vie

 

 

 

Dy RETU! sth REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) [sso ATURE
=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILS

 
 
  
 

 
 

B. Entry into the KGB :
NOSENKO has provided a wide range of dates for his entry

on duty with the KGB and has offered disparate descriptions of

the circumstances and procedures involved in his becoming a

KGB staff officer, His statements on these two topics are
presented under separate headings below. :

1. Date of Ertry

A range of dates between early 1952 and 2 April 1953 has
been given by NOSENKO as the time when he entered on duty with
the KGB, bet he has been most consistent in placing his entry
in the month of March 1953.* in summary, he has said the
beginning of 1952 (statement of 31 January 1964), May 1952 with
no day (statement of February 1964), 5 or 7 September 1952
(statement of 6 April 1964)..March 1953 with no day (statements
of 9 June 1962, 24 April 1966 and 27? October 1966), 12 or 15 or
17 March 1953 (statement of 6 April 1964), 13 or 15 March 1953
(statement*of 26 July 1965), and 2 April 1953 {statement of

-17 April 196€). When iast questioned about this subject, on

27 October 1966, NOSENKO acknowledged that he had lied when he
had earlier reported his entry as occurring 1n 1952, His state-
ments about the entry date are arranged in chronological order
below.

9 June 1962 (first CIA meeting with NOSENKO): “in the
beginning of 1953 I came to Moscow /From duty with the GRU in
Primorsk/. This was 1953, in the beginning. in January. Well,
I came on leave to Moscow, I was staying at my father's dacha
there... I was then in the Navy GRU. So I ceme cto Moscow on
leave and, while I was home_near Moscow at my father’s dacha,
ZGeneral Bogdan Zakharovich/ KOBULOV** dropped in on us. A con-
versation simply began. He said: ‘What are you doing?' TI said:
‘I'm working in GRU. I[ worked in the Far East and now I'm work-
ing in the Baitic. I came here on leave.’ KOBULOV said: 'How
do you like the work?’ I replied: ‘Well, speaking honestly, I
don't like the work.' ‘Well,' he said, ‘You better come to work
with us, Where do you want to co? Into intelligence or counter-
intelligence?'... I did not want to go into intelligence. I

* Several of NOSENKO's remarks about his date of entry into
the KGB were made during CIA questioning abour how and
when he first learned of the KGB agent “ANDREY"; the lead —
to "ANDREY" was one of the two pieces of information which
NOSENKO offered to sell when he approached CIA in 1962
(see Part II.B.); the "ANDREY- case is discussed at
greater length in Part VI.D.3.b.

“** Other sources have reported that KOBULOV was expelled

from the State Security apparatus in 1946 and that he did
not return to a position of authority until a few days.
, after Lavrentiy BERIYA became MGB-MVD. Minister on 9 or
10 March 1953. As of 1952, KOBULOV was working in East
: Germany for both Wismut A.G., a uranium ore-mining con-
cern, and for the Soviet contingent to the Allied Control
. Commission. KOBULOV was arrested at the same time as.
BERIYA, along with others in the KGB, See Part V.B.2, —
_ for further references to KOBULOV.. . : Looe oe

 

La

 
     

 

3
4
|
4

3
q
i
4
4
i

 

  
      
    
   
   
     
     
 
 
 

   
 

   

    

consider that only people who have seven, even ten years’ ex-
perience in counterintelligence work should be sent co intelli-
gence. After this, let them go into positive intelligence.
Then they know how counterintelligence operates... Well, when
KOBULOV asked me where I wanted to work, I answered: ‘It is
better, of course, to go into counterintelligence.' ‘Well,' he
said, ‘Good. Look, drop in to see me for a minute sometime.'
This was simple conversation. Nothing official. A week later
I got a telephone call. They were calling from Personnel and
told me to stop by. I went. ‘Come into this room,' /they told
me/, ‘it's not necessary to fill out a questionnaire (anketa).
We have already obtained your personal file from the GRU. Go
directly to the central entrance, A pass has already been
-issued for you; the pass is already there. Go to the Secre-
tariat of Bogdan Zakharovich KOBULCV,' Well, I went. KOBULOV
had been summoned somewhere high up in the government, and his
assistant received me. ‘How_about working in the American De-
partment?' he /the assistant/ asked. ‘Well. good. Go there
right. now.! Well, I wert to the Second Directorate... His
ZKOBULOV's/ assistant sent me directly to the Second Directo-
rate, the American Department, the First Section, working with
American correspondents...in '53, in March, in March '53, STALIN
had just died.'*

es

 

   

no et bees F wee

   

-"STALIN died on 5 March 1953.

3. Dds ieoert

 

4

wo teedab mae bat Rati

}
j

 

 

    
