74-00000

   
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

 

-2-

general, ROZINKIN, per Soviet standards, Tived well in Source’s
opinion. On one occaston in about January 1970 or 1973, Source
approached an American official in the restricted parking area of
the Luzhniki Palace of Sports in Moscow - Source obtained a special
pass and parking permit from a friend in order to observe boxing.
matches, and while parking his car noticed what appeared to be an
American official car being driven by a foreigner. (Source claimed 7 : 4
that he already had thoughts of wanting to leave the Soviet Union : . i
and hoped the American could help or perhaps provide some suggestions. | 4
It should be noted, however, that Source was in at Yeast semi-official an
contact during this time frame with a KGB officer named Lev : : on
Mikhaylovich GAVRILIN who reportedly was involved in operations : to
against American Embassy personnel.) During the brief conversation
which was held in English, the American official mentioned that he
was the assistant to the American Military Attache, replied to
Source's queries that Source's only chance of leaving the USSR would
be through approved TDY or tourist travel, gave Source a calling
card (Source could not recall the American's name), and suggested :
that Source phone him the next day. Source mentioned the encounter : E if
to ROZINKIN and on the following day ROZINKIN and Source phoned the :
American from a public phone booth. (In actuality, ROZINKIN spoke
to the American during the telephone conversation because he was -
considerably more fluent in the English language than Source.) The
American merely stated that there was nothing he could add to his: : t
previous statements and the telephone conversation was terminated. : ‘
Source described the American as taller than average, having a thin .
face and perhaps light colored hair; Source was uncertain of the i
latter because the American wore a hat at the time of the initial : .
contact, ROZINKIN had occasional contact with foreigners in Moscow: ‘ poof
and reportedly had lengthy correspondence with an Australian national. -: ~
dhen questioned about the aforementioned correspondence and probable
Soviet knowledge of it, Source commented that ROZINKIN might have :
been "hooked" by the KGB. . .
3. In approximately 1972 ROZINKIN introduced Source to an ; : ue .
. ©: Amertcan defector named fnu MARTIN at the. latter's apartment in ‘one : (gE tes
: of only two high-rise apartment buildings located on the southeast . ,

fo. . Nsecret . ~ |
|
|
{

 

 

setae aes cas eee ne ent ie enn ene oe se ene eeesanee conn terling tn Lit MAN ABI AE SAU SETS,

 

Dy corner of the Obrucheva Akademika Ulitsa - Leninskiy Prospekt _ i
“| intersection in Moscow. Source visited MARTIN together with tall
a ROZINKIN on one other occasion during the same year. The front door :
to MARTIN'’s apartment had at least several locks. The apartment

i - itself, consisting of two rooms, had unidentified security devicas,
: according to ROZINKIN who related to Source most of the information
: reported below. MARTIN, who had stereo equipment and played music i
od during the two brief encounters, allegedly would not permit anyone
fl 0 into his apartment without receiving an advance phone call. He
had some capability in the Russian language and reportedly was not
married at that time, Based on what ROZINKIN mentioned, MARTIN,
during his early years in Moscow, surrounded himself with prostituggi-.
and black marketeers who often visited his apartment, aad had been”
| treated in a Soviet psychiatric clinic at one time. He later became
we : Suspicious of people and frightened of possibly being apprehended
or harmed by American authorities and therefore curtailed his social

ay
SECRET

    

 
 

 

  

 

vecetupet nec een cnemmnmnniin SEMPRE MONI AE EADIE! 48D BPE

i
ot
i

 

 

 

cctennmean evenness sins seen 8

   

fo4-f02i9-0082

 

Bes

SX-28965
10 May 76

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Aleksandr Aleksandrovich ROZINKIN; William Hamilton MARTI

' SOURCE : A radio engineer by education and a self-admitted former

i K68 informant who emigrated from the Soviet Union in
January 1975. He graduated from the Leningrad Electro-
technical Institute and subsequently worked in Leningrad
at several classified scientific/technical establishments
and a branch of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Later,
he was employed in Moscow at export branches of the
Ministry of Aviation Industry and the Ministry of Foreign
Trade, did some graduate work at the All-Union Machine
Building Institute, and worked as a translator at
Tsniistroymash. His reporting reliability and bona fides
have not been established. .

DATE OF INFORMATION: June 1968 - January 1975
DATE OF DEBRIEFING : 29 February 1976

1. Fottowing his move from Leningrad to Moscow fn June 1968,
Source met Aleksandr Aleksanrovich ROZINKIN, a translator who works
for a number of Soviet publishing houses in Moscow but actually
does his translation work at his residence (address: Moscow 452,
Balaklavskiy Prospekt, House No. 4, Korpus No. 5, Apartment No. 353;
home phone number: 110-2311). ROZINKIN's father is Jewish and his
mother is Great Russian. ROZINKIN graduated from the Moscow State
Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages imeni Maurice Thorez in
1956 or 1957, traveled to Australia in connection with a one-year
assignment as an interpreter attached to the Soviet antarctic
expedition, and traveted abroad to at least one other foreign .
country (location unknown by Source). He was married twice. His’
first wife (name unknown to. Source) bore him a son and his second

_(named Lena Inu) gave birth to a daughter. Although he is still

married to Lena, ROZINKIN does -not reside with her and the daughter.”

ROZINKIN loves his daughter and frequently visits her at his wife’s
residance located in the area of. the Preobrazhenskaya metro station
in Moscow. ROZINKIN had a mistress named Galina Sergeyevna ZHIRKOVA
(refer to SX-28663, dated 14 April 1976, for data on ZHIRKOVA) who
worked as a typist at the Higher Diplomatic School and was scheduled
to be assigned PCS in 1975 to a Soviet embassy in an unidentified

' foreign country. -

. 2. ROZINKIN expressed anti-Soviet regime attitudes to Source -
and to other friends, and indicated he-had thought in principle of

  

he complained about Soviet propaganda and about life in the USSR in

et a ee : CROSS PILE coy
ho SECRET ee
; of Fak
. 7 Do Nor PEst3oy " -

 

 

   
     
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     

emigrating, but stated he did not wish to leave his daughter. Although
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
   
  
 
      
 
     
  

activities and became cautious in inviting visitors to his
apartment. No impertant or interesting Soviets associated with
him on a social basis. He allegedly consumed large amounts of
alcohol and usually was found in a rotten mood. ROZINKIN stated i
that MARTIN received 500 rubles per month from the Soviet !
authorities and had been assigned to work at the Institute of
Mathematics imeni Steklova, but actually did not work there.

ROZINKIN atso remarked once that MARTIN indicated he felt he made
; a mistake in defecting to the Soviets and regretted it. Reportedly,
‘ MARTIN has had contacts with foreign diplomats in Moscow-and in

this connection ROZINKIN stated that a Swedish diplomat offered

his assistance to spirit MARTIN out of the Soviet Union, apparently

through the use of a diplomatic vehicie. MARTIN, as Source was told,
‘declined the offer because he was afraid that the Americans would

get ahold of him once he left the USSR.

3 4. Source claimed he did not know the reason for ROZINKIN's

; association with MARTIN and only guessed that ROZINKIN may have been
| involved in obtaining translation work for MARTIH. Relative to this,
i however, Source stated it was his (Source's) impression that MARTIN

: had no interest in seeking any form of employment. As concerned

j Source's relationship with ROZINKIN, in the fall of 1973 ROZINKIN -

: became miffed at Source's one-time il} treatment of him (ROZINKIRN)-

: curing a petty incident and the friendship dissolved at that time.

: They did not see each other after the incident and ROZINKIN did not

4 bid farewell to Source at the time of the latter's emigration from

i the Soviet Unton. Source did not know ROZINKIN's friends well, but

bon did state that ROZINKIN was a very close friend of Yuriy pnu SHIROXOV i
i {a translator/interpreter who had studied at the Moscow Institute of :
i International Relations, is the son ef a Soviet diplomat, and has a

good capability fn the English language).

     

  

 

1
. i
| 5. Traces: {
1 For traces on Lev Nikhaylovich GAYRILIN see 5x- 28669, 4
of ' dated 26 Moeht 1976. . i .
*GAVRILIN, Lev Mikhaylovich ee
SEX: M . . a fe
: _ DOB: : Loe “ye
“ POB: USSR | ce i:
I CIT: USSR : soot tes
OCC: KGB officer a
| _ LOC: USSR
a : “Reportedly involved in operations against American Embassy _ i

personnel in USSR. Known to Soviet emigre 201-0939684.

ioc") og Eng MARTIN fs William Hamilton MARTIN (201 70232338), a
. former NSA employee, who defected to the USSR in 1960.

  

a C. There are no Headquarters traces, on Aleksandr Aleksandro-
, “ vich ROZINKIN. . an

ro agt toed IN tka

   

edb ete Hat Slate Se
74-00000

 

 

 

   

SECRET ~

 

-4- :
*ROZINKIN, Aleksandr Aleksandrovich ‘ i
SEX: M { i
DOB: i 2
POB: USSR . : : : a
CIT: USSR : -
OCC; Transtator . : Bo
LOC: -USSR : . , ee ~e

Does work for a number of Soviet publishing houses. Tt
Has expressed anti-Soviet sentiments. Known to Soviet pote
emigre 201-0939684.

D. There are no identifiable Headquarters traces on ‘Yuriy _
SHIROKOV. . webs

 

SE/SAG/OP: Traces: fek

 

 

 

 

Distribution: : co i i
Orig & 1 - IP/AN (Please classify into 201- 0939684, index the ‘ ' {
indicated names in para 5 and B-code into 201-0232338) ‘ an
1 - C/SE/SAG, SE/USSR ; 2 TOES
1- SE/SAG/OP chrono - - _ : ; : oe
1 - SE/CI/I .

afar opens Bplay St
