  
  
 

S&S <

ye

 

3 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: arn OSWALD ,
SS to my previous memorandum of today at ;
eg

   

MpY Papich at 1010 hours, and after checki:

Fa

SAO St £0 Ne
2° the sad ity of seeing Mr. Helms,. I telephonic ed. \
SNEHIY I did not know when I would be in a posi Aa

BERS e Sov
NN .

  

and being informed by Mr. Helms that this was a matter Which I could

‘tell Mr. Papich would have to be decided by the Director, I telephonically

contacted Mr. Papich at approximately 12:00 noon and advised him that
it was a matter which would have to be considered by our Director, that
I could not give him any assurance as to the time he would receive a
response. The matter was definitely being given attention and he would
be informed as seopn as I received a response. Mr. Papich remarked that

    
      
  
 
 

he did not see-#hy\this Agency couldn't reach a prompt decision on a
relatively \watter and that "if your Agency can't do it we are
going to 34 try." I did not go into the question as to whether
we could ad do it with Mr. Papich but simply stated that I

    
  
  

     

a

would BS) ase as soon as I could. I specifically, Re Ri
q ; AN is was an official request that we nape

(Tew nd polygraph. He stated that it was @ y

. :
SMasrable pressure on the question and hist

    

     

Document Number

for FOIA Review on.

 

PAGE 3 3

 

COPY .NO.

 

 

 
 

$04-10080-10042

“4

  

tilsry Hatin
3 December 1963

  
  

 

SQL CAS
ene “THE RECORD

SUBJECT: * Lee Harvey OSWALD

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FB. “advised. that the
Bureau had received a cable last night from the Legal Attache in ,
Mexico City who is in touch with our representative there. He stated ~
that our representative had been informed byqcaptaina| Whéelock-of the > —

 

 

 

 

¢ Nicaraguan Intelligence Service) that ALVARADO told hin, Wheelock, that

he recanted his original story because of fear of physical harm; that
Alvarado was being deported from Mexico to Nicaragua on 4. December 1963
and would be accompanied by Wheelock; that Wheelock assured our repre-
sentative that Alvarado would be available for further interview in
Nicaragua if the United States desired.

Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau would like to have bin subjected
to a polygraD xamination by this Agency and would apprec receiving
word as _ BOOHER ssible as to whether we will handle es since

RE ndle it the FBI will have to determing@ Sad) ther steps
aR to_see that this is done. I advised Sone that I
) nv

he matter, that I did not know w owe jh vailable
line a aph operator who could pro aD nde tter

ams ERS would let him know whether = Bee Ss

Birch D. O'Neal
Chief, CI/SIG ,

 

0002283a

PAGE. 54a ot 69

GORY Noe

 
 

2
is)
i=)
f=)
°
t
=

 

 
