 

 

~ a
. . a .
. , 7 ; . ot a + WLR 3 ; mo.
Alone ’ ( , : ( J
NOTE: | | also included
information the Chief of Station had received
from jv. jon 8 June. we isaid that he

had s2en providing information on ZIMERI te the
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miemi. ©.» . |did not mention names but
described one of the Americans as about six feet
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4, The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends
with five r equests | for information by a

 

 

 

a, Is. ZIMERI still in the United States? .

b. “In the event ZIMERI is not in the United ;
, States legally, deport him to Guatemala. —

c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
': United States for possible use in
Guatemala? :

d.. DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-
- ° -tial treatment by U. S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as”
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to Guatemala?

e, Any information on Robert and Gerald. ns mo.
: HEMMING? > a, ve 7
5. On 19 June 1976 a _  bavisea
that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State ;
Department. So .

6. Office of Security indices are ‘negative in pertinent
variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING. .

' %. From the name, physical description, activity, and ;
alleged employment, it is apparent . that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of.0ffice of Security file
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as
of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
Miami, Florida.

us hace ack eAory
oo SEbnel
oh Crs Sn (LEME

. . cl Cee . wee ”
Pret Lewy OROh | : to eee th rr

 
 

(od-t00ds 10218 a, a

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: . Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT | :. HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
~". SF#429 229
‘1. Cn 9 June 1969 «vo . an

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation
' Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING,

.) -was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING «
file. When ().-j.contacted the writer, .‘advised that he
is the action officer for a cable fron |
reporting an ‘assassination plot on the life of President —
LAUGERUD of Guatemala. i> /was unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file
on HEMMING. uw. ‘was requested to alert ~~ ts “and JMWAVE
to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a
copy of the report. coming in from

 

 

 

 

 

 

; 2. w. | provided the writer with ‘a copy of the cable
(IN 944357, : . ..3, dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source,
provided |
a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot
to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to the informa-
tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however, one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
of an attack upon his, ZIMERI'’s, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Miami since August 1975. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. According to the report, the National Liberation
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
_and ZIMERI in turn. was involved with two. Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. ~ The. ‘HEMMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
in Miami and New Orleans.

&

OO) CA sates.

cy A conga nranes . E2 INPDET
OReT CL BY 063994 K
y

wiRha

Dee? ¥ 70
8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,
the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMWAVE. On
numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's, HEMMING
had clained Agency. affiliation when in fact there has bern
none, The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services
to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long-fime cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),
aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who “also has a
long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In
the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter
claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon tisteagter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

. Central American activities which he named the International

-Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this “Brigade”
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HE MMING. : :

- 9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of -
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot
involving HEMMING , you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by
Michael. CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat /
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John” F. Kenned -
is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency ~
with the assassination of..President KENNEDY. One of the major i
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,”
Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-
nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in 1967 when-New Orleans District Attorney "Jim" :
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, , Jemnes GARRISCN' s investigation.

-

Jerry G. Brown
Deputy Chief
Security Analysis Group

Atts
