14-00000

Page 21.

Page 27.

OF course, the reference to especial relevance
of the AMLASH operation in this context is
questioned.

Draft report states that President Kennedy did ''admit
that the Bay of Pigs invasion was in fact an operation
sponsored by the CIA."' Our impression was that he
accepted this responsibility as his, fora government
program. How and in what forum was the stated
admission? :

(numbered 29)

Page 29.

Speaking of renewal of contact with AMLASH/I the
draft says '"', . . the exact purpose the CIA had for
renewing contact is not known, but there is no evidence
that CIA intended at this time to use AMLASH in an
assassination operation. .

When AMLASH came out of Cuba in September
1963, .it was the first chance since August 1962
to see him, Recontact needed no mysterious
“exact purpose." It is correct to state that
there was‘no evidence” of intent to use him as an
assassination operation; rather, the circum-
stances that followed suggest just the opposite.

Footnote: The case officer did not say, as stated

in the draft, that the basis for meeting with AMLASH
was the belief of AMLASH that the first step of any
coup was assassination. While AMLASH's views were
known, as shown by the evidence his views were
rejected at least during the critical period. _

The opinion expressed in the draft report, in relation
to the Harker interview, about "AMLASH not being

a terrorist, ''is correct, Should it be reconciled
with statements on Page 8?

 
74-00000

Page 33.

 

Page 34.

Page 41.

Page 47.

Page 53.

_ Baked a hypothetical question about use of AMLASH,

 

The report also says, here, ‘none of this other
activity would seem to warrant Castro's associating
that activity with U.S. leaders to the extent that he
would threaten the safety of American leaders aiding
the plans."' We note without exception.

Footnote *, The Cuban Coordinating Committee was

a group for coordinating implementation of established
programs. By memorandum of 22 May 1963, McGeorge.
Bundy, Special Assistant to President Kennedy for
National Security Affairs, designated the State Depart-
merit Coordinator of Cuban Affairs as Chairman of the
Interdepartmental Committee on Cuba with the specific
responsibility for the coordination of day-to-day actions
regarding Cuba. Membership of the Committee con-
sisted of representatives from State, USIA, DoD, CIA,
Justice, Treasury and ad hoc representatives as
necessary. :

Footnote **. This seems to indicate that the FBI

“learned; of CIA's operations on 10 October 1963

(a new date?) and that this led to termination of the
AMLASH operation. Of course, that happened much
later. , .

"Special Affairs Staff" should read "Special Activities —
Staff,"

SASICI should read SAS/CI.

Testimony of Karamessines is quoted, in which he is

  

and that he answered hypothetically, but-the presentation
seems to treat it as fact. :

Reference to CIA "technical" collection capability in
Mexico City should be deleted. Simply delete the
word "technical. "' This small point is a sources-
and-methods question. _ ;

 
74-0000

Page 10.

Page 12.

 

Page 14.

Page 15.

¢ TOP SECRET og

says". .. within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated
the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH
the United States supported his plan." ;

This misrepresents what AMLASH/1 was told
at the 20 October 1963 meeting, which was that
he would receive no support unless he was

_ successful in-a coup of his own. There is.no
planning relationship between the inconclusive
status of the understanding with AMLASH/1 and
what was going on under MONGOOSE.

NQswald contacted a known KGB agent" with the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico. While it is known that Oswald
contacted the Vice ‘Consul at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City, it is believed that it was for the purpose

of obtaining a visa for the Soviet Union. The fact that

the Vice Consul happened to be a KGB officer complicates
the matter but there is no evidence that Oswald knew

this Soviet was KGB. Therefore, recommend this
sentence be modified accordingly.

"Eoover and other senior officials first learned of
plots to assassinate Castro in July 1964,'' Did they?

‘Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators
made requests for files which should have given
knowledge of the AMLASH operation, but for some
reason they did not acquire that knowledge. ''

A quick review of CI Staff files, in the time
available for this review, disclose no requests
that, of themselves, would produce information — :
‘on the AMMLASH operation.

The draft report raises the question of what was
furnished investigators, which raises the question of

what was requested, by whom? (See comment on item
on page 14).

~2-

TOP SECRET
74-0000

ab C JOP SECRET oc cet?

Item Comments on Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee

Page 2. Line ll. The word "agents'' may describe FBI
- employees, but it is not a term ordinarily applied
to CIA staff employees. :

Page 7. 2nd complete paragraph, 2d line. The phrase
“backed by CIA, '' in describing the Bay of Pigs
operation, is imprecise. CIA was the government
instrument for conducting the operation, but there ~
was considerable other participation in what was
an operation "backed" by the U.S. government,

Page 8. The statement that the FBI knew about these plots
. by at least May 1962 needs some elaboration.

These plots (assassination) did not involve AMLASH fl
at that time, and what the FBI knew may have been
about aspects of contacts, the nature of which it did
not know. (Need this be reconciled with the state-
ment at page 12 giving the date of FBI's learning
whatever it learned ix July 1964?) - :

 

2nd and 3d paragraphs. It is noted that operational
activity in June 1963--the date given--was that there was
‘nO jactivity with the criminal Syndicate (this having
been ended several months earlier), and there had

been no contact with AMLASH/I since August 1962.
Statements by Castro about '"'terrorists'' had to apply

to other activities.

Paragraph at bottom of page (continuing over to
page 9). References by Castro (12 September 1963)
to "covert activities" undoubtedly referred to not-
so-covert activity of MONGOOSE.

Page 9. Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting
between AMLASH/1 and Fitzgerald, the draft report |

Tap SECRET Classified by Signer
14-00000

 

¢  TOPSECRET ¢

The 13 November memorandum also. stated that:

"Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting. After the meeting

. (AMLASH/]1) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could provide him. "'

On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York (the source
of the original introduction to AMLASH/1) stated to a CIA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: "...satisfied...as far as policy
was concerned, ...was not at all happy with the fact that he
still was not given the technical assistance for the operational
plan as he saw it...He could not understand why he was denied
certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final
solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
Government gave much equipment and money to exile groups for

their ineffective excusions...'' The report of that meeting

also stated: '...if he does not get advice and material from a
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed-up
again and we will lose whatever progress we have made to date."!

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGerald's
approval of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered
rifles and scopes. During the period following 19 November ,
and prior to a meeting in Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen
was rigged as a hypodermic syringe with which AMLASH/1 could
administer a poison. The case officer arrived in Paris on
22 November 1963 and met with AMLASH/I on that date. AMLASH/L
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not accept it. He also
was told of the arms cache he would be provided.

The record is quite clear that AMLASH/1 had no grounds,
prior to 22 November 1963, to believe that he had any support
from the United States for operations involving the assassin-
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact, he had no advance support for
a coup, however he |might attempt it. This is emphasized by
his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his
understanding that such was the case. His complaint on 14
November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have
led to the decision on 19 November 1963 to provide him with

-3e

TOP SECRET
74-0000

 

 

token support that he could interpret as the support he had
been requesting unsuccessfully. That decision was taken

19 November 1963 inside CLA Headquarters by FitzGerald and
formalized by a memorandum written the same date.

Prior to 22 November 1963 CIA had refused to give
AMLASH/1 any support prior to a successful coup in Cuba.
That he recognized that this specifically included a refusal to
participate in the assassination of Castro is reflected in the
description of a July 1964 report by the FBI, quoted in the SSC
Subcommittee draft, in which AMLASH/1 stated that Robert F.
Kennedy had refused support for the assassination of Castro.
As the 29 October meeting with FitzGerald is the one at which
he understood he was meeting with a representative of Robert F.
Kennedy, it confirms the description in the 1967 IG Report.

Whatever the relationship with AMLASH/1 after 22 November,
the evidence is unequivocal that AMLASH/1 had no grounds prior
to that for believing that he had CIA support for his vaguely defined
course of action. He knew nothing that, had it leaked, would have
served to motivate a Cuban retaliatory strike against President
Kennedy.

Finally, it is significant that the transcripts of AMLASH/I's
1966 trial contain no reference to his activities prior to 1964; i.e.,
before President Kennedy's assassination. The transcripts suggest
that, to the Cubans' knowledge, AMLASH/1 was not in touch with CIA
before November 1964. Nor did the book which Castro provided to
Senator McGovern in 1975, which purported to be an inventory of all
known plots against Castro's life, contain any allegation of AMLASH/1
anti-Castro activity prior to late 1964. The book mentions travel by
AMLASH/1 to Madrid "where he was recruited by CIA agents." This
travel occurred in November 1964. The above two instances strongly
suggest that Castro was not aware that AMLASH/1 had any contact
with CLA prior to November 1964; i.e., one year after President
Kennedy's death. ;

The reported AMLASH/1 notoriety in the Miami Cuban exile
community did not occur prior to President Kennedy's death. This
developed after the 1966 trial and to some degree after AMLASH/1
met with Cuban exile leaders in Madrid in late 1964 and early 1965.
This was after AMLASH/1 was informed in 1964 that the U.S.
Government had severed its relationship with him, :

The most recent information available indicates that AMLASH/ i
is still in jail, where he is serving a thirty year sentence.

TOP. SECRET
14-00000

 

cc TOPSECRET = empuy,

‘CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON,D.C. 20505 -

. 10 June 1976

Mr. William G. Miller.
(oo 6%, Staff Director ooo
« oy "|. Select Committee to Study Governmental
: : Operations with Respect to. Intelligence Activities -
Room G-308 .
-. Dirksen Senate Office Building
: Washington, D. C. 20515

 

- Dear Bills

. Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of
. the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of _
. support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission
'. inquiry. These comments have been prepared under a-tight oo,
_ deadline, which has limited the ability to research all the questions
raised in the draft report. :

7 The attachments to’ ‘thie } letter‘are in 1 two sections. The firet
|. is a summary of considerations relating to the relationship between —
‘> CIA and AMLASH/1 prior to the assassination of President Kennedy
:”' on 22 November 1963. The point is that the record of what was said -
_ to AMLASH/I1, and specific. reporting of what he understood, makes —
Ht clear that there were no grounds for him to believe, and ‘he did
- _not believe, that he had CIA support for an assassination plot againat
.. Gastro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death. The ..
_ second attachment is an item-by-item series of comments, ranging
“. from minor editorial notations and comments; to factual corrections —
* and security points. one L. are : .

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

     

> ‘As there is a basic difference between the a interpretation « of

‘facts in the draft report, and the facts as we know them, it would be ;

_ * appreciated if there ‘could be an opportunity to address the question a
* with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
. bea disservice to. the public to issue the report : as now written. oe

 

a a Sincerely,
“$s, D. Breckinridge - piling,
Deputy Inspector General é 4
" Attachments: ; ; : ee _ €
As stated - P7g5

JOP. secret _Giaesiied by Signer

 

 
   

   
 

10-1087 : ‘s TOP SECRET wer we. "4

Ve | Ss Daghen blank—TOP re ET when attached to Top Secret Document Sraticaly downgraded or deck a
gn

    

 

REGISTRY on
CIA CONTROL NO.

2 fa

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

 

 

   

 

LOGGED BY

 

 

re celved by the Central Intelligence Agena
hh time as it is downgraded, destroyed,. or£
onnel: and those individuals whose official.
ad Top Secret material will sign thts form;
ue Top Secret document will sign ‘and

  
  

  
     

   
 

on} Secret, Control Officers who receive and/or release the
ithe left-hand columns provided. Each individual whi

  
 

 

 
  

 

 

REFERRED, ‘Oo : 7 ae : SEEN BY
: t oy S'S TGNATURE OFFECE/DIV. |. DATEL’

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

#rous fot tions. “TOP SECRET

    

 
74-0000

oe

- . , C TOP SECRET , Cc TS 185247 - Tab 1

Copyl of 10

‘es
.

AMLASH Operation

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its
existence was the formation of a nucleus within Cuba to organize
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. AMLASH/1 held
a position high in the Cuban government.. He was disillusioned
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political
action asset. The Agency had a series of meetings with him
during the 1961-62 period, the last of which was in August 1962
prior to his departure for Havana. He was never a fully recruited
agent.

In September 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/1, he said that there were two ways to
effect a coup; through an outside invasion (which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an "inside job"
(i.e. internal coup via military overthrow). He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States :
Government. By this he meant high-level assurances of support
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the results '
of the meeting also indicated that AMLASH/1 "will always be a
control problem. " ; : .

 

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again. Meetings with AMLASH/1 in October 1963 consisted of
exploration as to what he might do, and requests by him for

_ U.S. support. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on
29 October 1963. The plan for that meeting is described in
writing in the file as follows: . ;

"FitzGerald will represent self as personal
representative of Robert F. Kennedy who
traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting
(AMLASH/1) and giving him assurances of
full U.S. support if there is change of the

: . present government in Cuba.'' (Emphasis added).

. TOP SECRET : Classified by Signer
74-00000

C TOP SECRET

A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary:

"FitzGerald informed (AMLASH/1 that the
United States is prepared to render all
necessary assistance to any anti-communist
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban leadership and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States
to render the assistance it is prepared to
give. It was emphasized that the above
support will be forthcoming only after a
real coup has been effected and the group
involved is in a position to request U.S.

(probably under OAS. auspices) recognition
and support. It was made clear that the U.S.

was not prepared to commit itself to support- '

ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising

can be extinguished in a matter of hours if

the present government is still in control in
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the

U.S. does not desire that the political clock be
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mass of
the Cuban people. '' (Emphasis added).

‘In 1987 the Inspector General of CIA conducted an investi-
gation of the AMLASH operation, and interviewed Mr. FitzGerald
and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly familiar
with developments). FitzGerald recalled that AMLASH/1 spoke of
the need for an assassination weapon, particularly a high powered
rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon which could
be used to kill Castro from a distance. FitzGerald reluffed
this request and instructed the case officer who served as an

_ interpreter to tell AMLASH/1 that the U.S. simply did not do

such things. FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre-~

. gent, had the same zecollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured

AMLASH/I of full U.S. support "if there is a change of the
present leadership."

 
