&.

 

&. Recruit thivd nationals and Letin American
diplomats te be assigned or treneferred to blee
countries,

aX
a, Obtain ¢ nications sintelligence oa blos diple-
matio traffic,

At
Cbtain information cn the Chinese Cosmumiats in Mexico,

 

 

a t, agsegs and reeruit or develop sources in the
inese community. :
~ AY
b. Emploit Jon/ Chinese living in
Rexico ‘aot penetration of the
a4

Yes
13-00000

 

3.

&,

 

ay

&. Develop and support cn the
staffs af 2Y

@lop aceess to individuals and organizations
mn the labor field and suppor’ nen-Commmisat
eaders and groupes fn key untons.( 2+

obtain information!

 

 

 

 

 

anti-U. 3.

 

groups that may be susceptible to exploitation by Inter-
national Commnien.

pemes sad ents end, eatend _aietins penetrations in the

a
oO, Develop and, if conditions warrant, recruit a key
_Soaree in the]

pend bloc
| gxpreeatte installations.

Ge Goatinue te moniter the activities of selested

st-influenced | a4
a VION
warrant, Bake seidcted recraltmen B in the) Ry

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Continue to obtain information on Cuban Revolutionary
eetivities in Bexieo and support U.S. Government efforts
against the CASTAG regime.

& Continue to conduct penetration cperaticns of Cuban
Rabassy and induce Yeractions of Cuban diplomats.

b. Rearut.t egents(——— for operational use in

 

 

ce. Secure support of
for the conduct of operations against Cuba. 27

 

d@. Continue to provide operational support for activities

©

RY
4.

2.

3.

a,

Gombat itra~nationaltetie and anti-U, 8, activities in
Rexico .

a.

b..

Ge

a.

diracted against the CASTRO regime in Cube.

 

Utilize prop: — 4
__Vto combat the influence of
Cuban revolutionary ideologies in Mexico,

PRIORITY 5

 

AH.

and propagandize the dangers of Capynmiom.

Ueslige existing c aanets
to combat anti-U, S, propaganda or activities.
At

Utilize existing | — “\aasets to
prevent or negate collaboration between Gitra-naticnel ig
ang Conssunists. 3H

Uti tse assets to prevent
S86 -eceneate and ¢ultural penetration
plano or activities of the Sino~Seviet bles,

Spot fad aavelont for ¢ future Joovert “eollaberatiad young,
lecal figures who tent iai for political leacer-
Ship and whe may be ¢ int wenced to become generally
favereble to U. 3. interesta.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pe ae
Obtain information en the(georet intentions and activities

 

 

in foreign affairs, particularly

 

 

“teuard the U. Sy, the Sine-goviet blec, and Cuba

Be

2a
Continue to de influence hi eve. nt

 

Collect information on the dino-Soviet bloc,

a.

a.

Continue penetration of airline and steamship offices
and ¢fficial governement egencies/to obtain advance
information on travellerea. 24

Heoruit or obtain the willing ccllaberation ‘of selected
travellers to bleo countries, especi@ily these who will .
reaain in bloe countries fer an extended period and

uho aay be om sclentifie missions,

wa

‘ley
13-00000 ’ . ; oo wos

 

RELATED MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR MEXICO

I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

4d. National pohier. The long-range national polley objec~
¥en oO . Government toward Nezicoe are te reduce
te an ineffectual level the influence of international
Communiem, to encourage deascratic government, and te
keep the Mexican government friendly and favorably in-
clined toward U. 8, policies. Further guidance ia given
.in the current O¢B Regional Operations Plan for Latin
america,

B. Operational ig. The Station's priaary emphasis y
oer continue e Ea placed on Slandestine (collection 2%
aN Qperations and covert action cperations against the
ing-Sovliet bloc, Cuban, and Communist elements in HMexice,

c. changes in the RMD, ‘hie basic policy inetruction fe
astivities in co has been revised in light of the
Station's last Annual Assegsment of Progreas
to reflect more aeaurately operational cenditions, cape
bilities aud direction. In view of the importance and
threet presented by Communist Cuba to U. S. interests in

' Latin America, ceverage cf Cuban revolutionary activities
in Mexico has been made a epecific requirement under
Priority a. Priority B objectives and tasks inelude
refinements cf desired afferts and alao provide for covert
action cperations against Cuban targets in Hezico. The
former task for production of motion phtures and their
distribution has been deleted, as it is no lenger a valid
requirement; two former tasks pertaining to the possible
use of foreign diplomats have been combined s- te F
develop young potential political leaders ( ER) | bac”
teen added. Two previous ority C objectives have been
eliainated, as there is no @stablished Hexican intelli- 27
gence service and the Station regularly reperta on
activities Of the | _iCeverage of Chinese
Communists has been raised te Priority B ceineident with
the elimination of the former Pricrity © section.

D, Contingency Reporting. In addition to the specific —
objectives Bae Torte in Section II, the Station will from
time to time be called on to attempt to satisfy Intelligence

 

 

 
 

404-10406-10027}.

 

[rode
OF te Mh.
HEMORANBUN FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT : Related Mission Directive for Mexico
lL. Attached te the revised Releted Mission Directive for |
Kexiea,
2. Your approval is requested.

CONCUR 1

Plenty
(ving)

a a

 

Chief) ui Diviet

3 OUUN ge:

bate lpgrover
13-00000

 

Guides and Intelligence Directives, but if ts expected
‘that these requirenenta he satisfied uttilging existing
assets. Of particular interest cn @ continuing basis
cero fe information on: (a) any indications that Mexico may
be uged as a base for clandestine activity directed
against the U, 8. (CI Book Messages 88 and 115); (b)
eativities of non-blos intelligence services, especially
those that are potentially harmful tc U. 3. interests;
(a) the plotting of revolutionary groups according to
their current importance in attempts te overthrew the
re of their respective Latin American countries;
a) the current alignment and activities of political 24
orees with the petential for assuming centrol of the
Mexican Government} @) U. 8, Conmuntsts residing in
Mexico; and (f) tie Spanish / Communist group.

It will be noted that certain previous sontingency
reporting requirements have been amended as follows:
The former levy for reporting on the stability of the
Mexican Government has been changed to a more reallatic
and meaningful atatement as reflected by (d) above.
Thies modification ia appropriate, aa political changes.
im Mexico are moat likely occur within the framework
of constitutionality. The previous charge for reporting
on [secret shipments of strategic materials from Hexidd 247
to Blec countries is no longer specifically required and
has been deleted.

II, OBJECTIVES

 

PRIORITY A

1. Obtain information on Sinc-Scviet bice plans and activi-
ties in Mexico, ineluding those of bloc inteliigence
services.

a. Gontinue and, where posaible, increase Bical and
teehnical surveilisnee of bloc installations and
residences,

bb. Through controlied agent assets, identify and manitor
the activities of bloc personnel; if conditiona
verrant, attempt reerul t or defection of bles
pergonnel.

Clas)
1713-00000,

2.

 

6. Continue CI operations againat bles inteliigence

pergcnnel . .
Seek to reduce and, if possibile, eliminate Communist

end leftist contre] or infiueace ixf key governmental 2+
andl non-governmental organisations, political parties,
masa media outlete, and other elements that influence
pubilie or Of ties opinion and policies.

& Develop political at :
functional groups Y
in order te aisrupt and redude
their capaci ‘or carrying out action harmful to
G. S. ebjectives and interests.

b. Expose and discredit illegal cr subversive Sine-
Soviet bloc activities and representatives in Mexico,
as wel. the activities end peracnne] of inter~
national) and local] Communist front organizations.

&

oO
sc. Identify, diseredit, and if pessible eliminate
Ga mint and nro-Commmiste from etrategic positions

 

 

ha!

“At

a. Provide support and give guidance to individuals and
ergenizations that ¢an be induced to produce and dis-

geminate enti-Comaunist, pro-Pree world Prepay

[ agains
Communist or other enti-U, 3. élenents,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@, <JIdentify, develop, and utilize important nen-Comnunist.
QM ae jeadera / . |
agpinst Comm-
Gnist Influence aid inc e-trex to supe

8 3 rt views
egingiding with U. 3. Gevernment policy interests.

f. Soatinue to support and guide snt1-Ccumunist
and when necessary, develop additional asseta in key

 

At

 

 

a4

Gnd
