74-00000

“de

5. Wi Diviaien receival two copies of the deteiofing report in
Pebruary. Briefly, eoue of the operatichal information and suggestions
offered by TICHDURY are as follows:

as There apy oars to be tele chanoe of s ooalttten of the

‘opposition. grvups at present uince they are not vell
ta samber of tho oppositian

organized. end, accarding
to whom TICERRN talked, CaSTRU fe in no present danger of
losing the devotion of his follovera

“ b, TICHBCRH belfeves that inducement of defections aug the
CaSTRO followers would have more offect on CASTRO then ony
othar aingle ssticn we might undortak:.

‘@. There is « long-standing schlion betwoon Pidel and Kaoul
CasTRG, which if exploited, could be cperatimally sdventageous.

de Most inportant, TICZSCHH euphasiged that CaSTRO wust not be
usiewestinated by the U.S. nor uritten off ag aucther
Latin american revolutionary.

bs TICHEORN's file 4s available for roview in PaD. His true nam is
forvardel under eeparate eover.

Horace W. Davie
Chief,
Politieal Action Divislas

Grig & 1 = Addresses
l= Subject Mile
l= Chrono
 

[tog 10174-10082

‘ey

eh Sian te seme

cia eee

: 4 Hay 1960
MEMLRANDUM FOR: Chief, Covert ction Staff

SUBJECT» Edward G, TICHBORN (P), PAD Contract Agent

i. This mamorandua is in reply to your request for background data
on TIOHBURY for use in your disousalon with Ghief, Political Aotion, Wi/4.

2, TICHBURM was recruited by Horsce W, Davic in the fall of 1959 for
use in the PaD politieal edvisor program, 1.0. advising forefyn sontacta
of KUKARK on political orgentsation and techniques, particularly as they bad

apply to sleatian catpaign, —

Bg 3, THCHBORN ig an american oittaen,(32)yaaro old he is a graduate of
Harverd Law School hag been an attcrnéy, spectaliaing in trial work in

3s dngelos @ 1949. He entered pulitias in Los angeles the sans .
Ho wae olected(President of the Los angeles Young Democrats, 1950 -51,) In Pe
1950 he wag Chairman of the Soeakers Bureau for the James Roosevelt - Helen oC”
G an Douglas jeamaign, In 1952 and an dn 1956 he"waa a menbex of both :
the(Minorities Comdtteo and the Speakéi's Bureau for adlai Stevenson's ad gto '
Ia tion he has pertiolpated In numerous loc. campaigns. In 1953 he was :
the (Daxooretie candidate {unsuccessful} for Seccytary of State in California) © !
His present activities ude mambership in the Psnoaratio State Central
Committed, the Host Committee for the Democratic ational Convention, doard oe |
of Directors of the Domcoratic Minority Conference, and tho Exsoutive Comittse :
of the 63rd assembly District. .

40 Yn Jawery of this year TICHDORN travelled to Cuba on behalf of Wi :
Divieion where he spent about two weeks assessing the political aituation, | '
with emphasis on ascertaining the strengths end wealmessea of the nae :
Comamist groupe, and investigating the possibilities of a eoslescence of :
these groups Lnto appolitical organization. 4t triefing sessions prior to
Yds departure, TIGHBORY demenstrated an immediate grasp of the type of mission
proposed-to himy-snd upon hie return, revealed considerable insight into the
Guben situation.
|

|

 
