 

 

shipaent had been successfully infiltrated to his group during Pia absence
and araln urged that wore euch aricrents should bo etepped uc in the Suture.
iv then briefly discussed tho SINK? operaticn and asked 4° AUNG-1 if he :
° think this area fer the C2 wa. already "tlown? due to the number of © i
people wic alrcady knew cf his o,@ration, (This includes © other people |
besides AMMUMel and AS
inve:tigate this upen hie retur

lent DZ site and should be uti. é =f iu a
the Pinar del Rio srovincedy 5
various LZ2's and £2's had beéF ed and were being reviewed by the opera-

ticns peo,le. He complimented a’
grcpher and oxpressed the view that these OZ areas would be cut to good uses

Finaliy, he assured avaCNGel that no stone ds being left unturned to provide
his grov, with the nasessary materiel sup-ort wideh ds critically nevded and

thst this sup.ort «ill de step ed up as our Anfiltraticn capabilities are ine i
creased both by air and sea. In parting, he csuticned aUHUNG=]1 not to take
any unnecess «ry chances when he resumed operaticnal activities in Cuba, since
has leadershig in the ALYUM group was vi overall interests, The
meeting was terminoted about 1720 hours a and Peters took their deo

parture.

5. Stre of the more significant hiphlirhts of the conv-rsaticns which -

  

SECRET

w2e

 

NGel.) AMAUNG-l stated he was not sure, but would
Howover, he felt that this was an excel~

 
      

NGel that his overlays on

 

NG-L on the excellent work of his corto~

 

 

Ox

tock place betwen Av AUNGel undersiyned prior to his meetings with the ;
W/T operator (Francisco) are noted herewith:

Be

be

Security: Castro his taken stringent seti n in tirhtening up

his internal security a, ainst counterercvoluticnary forces inside
Cuba. The riiitia ars being usec to search heus:s for concesled
weapons (ustaily by a hlock system), and anyone failing to produce
proper identification ic removed for questioning by the Mitk.
Hence, AYSUNG-2 ani bis organization are largely confining their
activities te the daylight hours from 0700 to 2000 haurs. Fe
considers night operaticns » particularly on the st:ects of Ravana =
as highly dangerous inasmuch as the Si:I (security orrans) are -
ecnstantly on the alert to stop individuals en the street to check
their identification dccuments.

Documentati:n of A,ents in Cuba: AYAUNG)) surgested using an

Adentiricati‘n card issued by the Havana University for their -
students. He had a satple copy in his ;ossession, which he cleizs  _
was readily accepted by Castro security forces as being valid. . 7

Sirilarly, a driver's license procerly authenicated along with @ os |

|

i

|

  

health certificate were congidored to ha gocd *cover® docurents “_
for u,ents crerating in the Havana area, A supzly of blank identie ~-_
ficaticn cards wi:i be turned over to the Statien by AYRUNCA1 fon.
trenarittal to headquarters for any suts-quent documentation of =.=.

SECRET

ise
*

 

104-10179-10025

 

.

at

RETURN To ca.

 

ckground &:
No

pee Soe oF .

Med ‘ . SECRET

MTMORANDCM PIR THE ROCIRD

reo G13

SURVECT: Contact Report on Mecting with AMRUMAD ROP oat

1. On 5 Yovezber at 1130 hours, .MRCNG~1 and SINDECTER were met
at the Veshington Airoort by undersigned. They were then taken by
taxi to the “ayflower Yotel, where a room had been reserved ... for

their use. Jer having lunch at the hete!, the party sdfournod to
the room, where ATT NG] was given = stort briefing ex
EX

 

the -/T operator who wae schediled to meet SATRG=

 

 

)

. NS

TOU RSs.

2. At 18CO hours, the umers, Bae to the lo‘ty of the hotel

where Froneiseo was waiting wit! his escort officer.

was instructed to bring Fr: tothe moa. It was

in advance of thie that all srincisals would with draw. from
the room to give AYRUNG.1 an o unity to talk with Francisco alone,
Fowever, it was sugrested tha Feturn a half hour before the -
interview was terminated to clear u> any points as to the nature of
Francisco's training, or any aspects that ¢MPUNGAl right wish to
olarify. The interview with Francisco was terminated stout 1510
hours, as AMETNG.1 stated he would be oleased to have Tranciseo
assicned to hin, All indications were that a happy racport was este.
blished between the principals and a comleto understanding was -
reached as to the future role of Franeisco as the uf? oserator for
the AMIUM greuo in Cuba.

>

3. At aporoxinstely 1535 rears in bie appearance

at the room and was introduced to APET! as Py, Rodrick. Prior to
this meeting, ““RURG-1 was told that “r. Rodrick was the coordinator

for operations and would lire to discuss sone “geen mere specific
a

 
 
 
  

 
 

aspects with ha, orior to his return to Cuba. Cart: ht), whe Oy .
had escorted °c ee asked to sif in on this ing
along with Teters las he felt that HASH shenld te fully
Ainformed on whatever 1 matters were discussed with AMRUEG2

effective future coord ifstion between Headquarters and MASH.
lindiestead no ebjections to this and stated he was glad to have

in at this moet ine»

 

4& In substance, covered most of the highlights dealing ~
with orevicus attesp ply the AXTUM group with arzs and ammo,
and alr-maritine ocerations currently teing olanned. In this
connection, /°E7NGAl was highly pleased to learn that a.~,000 pound

SECRET

  

 

DiBK
74-0000

 

: SECRET

-h

agents wht can be passed off as students at the Ravana University.
(He suggested preparing cae for his «/T o;erator (Francisco).

 

6. Operaticnal Expenditures: Que:ied on this aspect, .*SCUKG-1 stated
his organizati n-wculd need a rinimum of 50 to 60,X0 pesos a

month to cover their cverall operaticnal expenses. These funds are
being used for safehouse raintenance, travel expenses, purchase of
vehicles and gascline, ailoration of fumis to vericus sub- .
divisions of the AMYUM organizaticn located in varicus provinces of
Cuba, and purchase of food and support of various arents whose
families may be in dire need of food and medical surslies.

d. W/T_o.eratora: To date, toth AYPANICe14 and AYCIEN.} have net
wet the requirements for effective coraunica'ion with us on AYYUF ©

operat.cns. However, AFPWUNG=] feels that AYPANIC.14 has not been
compromised or turned by the DI5x and once he rets over his nervous
state, it ie possible he can stil] be used, Sirilariy, although -
AYGLEN-1 is considered to ba a co d W/T cjerator, AYSUNGe) fecle
: his usefulness to hie has been considerably nejatet by the nature
: of his assignment at the Naval base end bis recent restrictions
, to this base by orders of the Castro recive. In stert, A¥RUNG-1
feels com-unicaticn is the weakest link in his currest epera’
and that direct com-unicati:ns with the Embassy is growing ine!
ereasingly hazardous, due to the fact that Embassy sersennel cre
under close surveillance by the Castre cecurity forces. For this
reason he feels that Francisco wil} fill a sericus wid in this
respect, once he is infiltrated into the ANYUK orjatasation in

Cubae

  

e, Support for other anti-Castro gro ps in Cuba: AVSUNGel stated that
all materiel sup,ort arculd bo funneled directly te his organize

H his view thig would serve as a ccntrol factor in unifying the over.
1 all effort of the varicus spiinter ,roups seeking evct suppcrt in -
Cuba and ould also entsnce the pfestice of the FRR as the spesrm

3 head for the FR:NTS,. He then went on to acd that he was fully —

: aware of our efforts to supsort other groups in Cuba, which he ~

! : aosumed we were operating wath on @ unilateral basise (i.e., he —

: sited Nino Diag in Oriente). AMWKG~l felt this wis a sericua-

! mistake, as this unilateral suport would affect the leadership and
direction now being provided by the “AR Shroughout Cubs. . The,

undersigned told AvalNGel that he apreed on the desiratilty of

j & cocrdinate d effort on the part of all counter-revolut: onary .

i groups seeking to overthrow Castro using the FRENTE as the rallye -

: _ ding center, However, tie question of supcort being dive ted -

through one channel namely: his organization in Cu4, was neither

feasible ner practical, The fect that Castro had tightened up

security throughout the varicus previnces of Cuba, 2 make it

difficult or ispossible for the AVMYUM group te ship ares and other

equipsent from Havana te the eastern vost provinces (t.e., Las

SECRET

 

 

}
|
Hl
i
t
|
i
i
!
i
'
tin for distritution to other anti-Castro gro. pe in cuba. In :
1
|
|
;
i
|
|
t
i
{
{
!

 
 

 

f.

Ge

SECRET

whe

Villas, Caraguay of Oriente) without jeopardizing both shipsents
and yerson ele Hence, the need for unilateral action on our

part to sup,ay these fiphting groups in thase provinces. This
explanation appeared te satisfy AFEUNG-1, however he still insisted
that his organizat’ n should at least be appraised of any vateriel
support provided other groups in Cuba, He was assured that wa
would take his request under consideration.

AMDID?Y-11 AVRUNG.1 feels that nce useful purpose would be served

in sending his a:stciate to join forces with him in Havana. He

fecls that AFBIDDY-1 should continue te represent the ASYUM

facticn in the FAD and when the counter-r: volutivr-ry forces are
fully prepared to everthrow the Castro reg-re, a¥AIDIYe1 will be
brought into the Pinar del Rio to direct the AFTUF forces in this

province.

Kanolo Rays ALaUNG~1 considers RAY as a bipnly dan-erous individual
because of his great ambiticn to play a prerinent role in any
subsoquent Cuban gov: razent following the overthrow of the Castro
regine. In his opinion, RAY poses a soricus threat to VAHONA 's
leadership and the FRD inside Cuba. Ho is attempting to draw

various dissident groups to hie banners 2nd appears to have support ve

from the riddle class represented by busines intercsts, politiciats,
and the professicnal class. Should iY te persuaded to join

forees with the FKD, AMAONG-1 thinks he wi:l continue to operate

on a@ unilaterai basis while seeking to supercede the FRD with

his om cryanizaticn in Cuba, .

h. Tony Varona and the FRD: Although AFRUNG.1 reecgnizes the neod

to aupport the FRO as a political front for rallying counter-
rmvoluticnary grou,s against the Castro regi-e, he n netheless
feels that the FHENTE and Tony Vik(VA hive loet eensiderable face
4m Cuba by inaction and political maneuv- ring. He further pointed
out that he 4a aware that thousands of dollars tad been poured into
the FRrali, but dissident groups in Cuba hve seen no evidence of
any of this money to sup ort their efforts to cverthrow Castro.
Hence, ccnfidence in the F!D is at a rolatively low ebb amcenz the
ple in Cuba and a new shot in the arm in the form of materiel
and financial support is needed to restora this eonfidence.— Ac-
conding to AFKUNG-1 this eup, ort must be fortt.coning, soon because
euch peo; 6 as Fanolo RaY ere taking the initistive and will socn
contrcl the entirs countererevolut onary movement in Cuba.

John D. Peters

SECRT

 

~ ae ence fe een te ee een mete Tee ey
