 

 

hearings or in opposing their conduct because -

of absence of adequate means for protecting |

sensitive subject matter.
74-00000

 

U.S. or its allies.

e. The recent book about Oswald, Legend, by
Epstein, has dramatized Nosenko's defection,
repeating the early doubts about him and
leaving the strong implication that he is
still to be doubted. Recently the HSCA
investigators seem to have shifted the —
emphasis of their inquiry from this issue
to how Nosenko was handled; this judgment
may be in error and the issue of his bona
fides may return during the hearings.

e. CIA did mistreat Nosenko. He was kept in
solitary confinement, he was given a
minimum diet, he was allowed few comforts,

sosestgtae

and he was subjected to intensive interrogation

£ 2

for extended periods of time. He ‘believes
that he was subjected to drugs, -but there’ is
no record that such was the-case; those who
were involved say he was never subjected to
drugs, although it was considered once and
rejected.

eo. The question of the bona fides of Nosenko's
defection could involve matters that have
sensitive connotations; however, -a decision

to emphasize only his mistreatment would be

only embarrassing to the Agency-

 
74-00000

 

Iv. In the absence of agreement with the HSCA on-how .”
sensitive matters are to be handled in its public.
hearings, the Agency may face the dilemma of how to
protect intelligence sources and methods.

» Current employees could find themselves
faced with the dilemma of abiding by their
secrecy oath and requesting to be excused
frowtestifying, but having to choose
between a contempt citation and violation
of the secrecy oath.

e Against the possibility that HSCA does not
undertake to work with us on this problem,
we may have to give notice to the employees
of the problem, A draft letter has been
prepared (copy attached) for forwarding to
pregent and current employees who have been
interviewed by the HSCA. Its limitations are
apparent, in that it serves primarily to
apprise the employee of his or her dilemma.

« OGC will request further advice from the

Attorney General.
Vy. Should the most pessimistic development come to pass,

the situation will be more political than legal. The

aoa
ane

fact is that time is of the essence, and any stretch-out

will reduce the time in which the Agency can react with

considered judgments, either in cooperating in the public
fot

PO ag

6 ; 3

  

 
74-0000

 

 

are provided partial insights into areas’ oS

of interest, if not the details. The

significance of the tactic, however, grows

as public hearings approach, involving as

they do subject matter that we view as

having considerable sensitivity and importance

to CIA.
We obviousity do not know all the lines of inquiry pursued
by HSCA investigators. They have undertaken to reconstruct
as much as possible about Oswald and the assassination of
President Kennedy. They also are attempting to develop
an evaluation of the performance of the intelligence
agencies in the investigation. Two areas of special
interest have become evident, both of which involve
sensitive operational considerations:

o— Mexico City
. ; ef.
®. Mexico City is considered one of the most ‘important
bases for Soviet clandestine operations against
the United States. As a-result Soviet and Cuban

diplomatic installations have long been the subject

of CIA surveillance operations, conducted
: w)

= =a

C J o

e. Telephone and photographic coverage of the Soviet

 

 

 

 

 

 

installations is carried on, as well as physical

‘79.0

 
 

(toe tors-t0zza

 

HSCA Hearings

I. The HSCA has scheduled public hearings for August,
September, and November.

®. The King hearings are 14-18 August, and 9,

) 10, 13-17, 20, 21, 22, 25-29 November. It
appears that CIA is unlikely to feature in
in these hearings, although this is only an
impression.

e. The Kennedy hearings are to be on week days,
6-29 September. CIA doubtless will share the
stage with the FBI.

II. We have requested the HSCA Staff for information on the
plans for the hearings, with special attention to the
security cénsiderations, (orally on 29 June and 13 July,
and in writing from the DDCI on 26 July and 4 August).

To date what we know about plans was acquired from The
Congressional Monitor. .
®. It has been the practice of the HSCA Staff to
avoid dialogues, the effect of which is to conceal
much of what they are doing or thinking. The .
resulting frustrations of trying to cooperate with

sie
the ‘investigation are not important; inevitably we
9 -
(azirine a8 2227%

ckground Use
Nee ~Be Not Reproduce —- a

 

  

a aan

 
74-00000

 

 

surveillance.:

 

 

 

 

 

| They are aware

 

of the fact of photographic surveillance.

Because of the telephonic coverage CIA was”

able to provide the initial firm evidence

on™Oswald's contacts with Cuban and Soviet -

officials, in his attempt to obtain visas

to Cuba and the USSR. CIA, limited in not

being able to conduct a traditional police-

type investigation, was able to suggest to

the Mexican authorities that they interview

at least one person known to have dealt with

Oswald during his visit. However, gaps remain

in what is known about his visit. This has

attracted HSCA attention. - gs

The reported questioning of some HSCA investigators

has on occasion appeared to be developing a basis —

for criticizing CIA's performance in its part

of the investigation in Mexico City, under its

charter to evaluate the performance of the

i .

intelligence agencies. At one time, and possibly

' ke.

: ve . .
still, they appeared to be attempting to develop

a case to the effect that (1) there was photography,

‘lop
74-00000

 

 

and (2) CIA must have suppressed it.
Practically all the above CIA reporting

on Mexico City involves classically sources«
and-methods material.

. Nosenko

. Yuri Nosenko was a KGB officer who defected

in early 1964. Among the items of information

that he asserted he brought with him was knowledge

about Lee Harvey Oswald, from his file in the
KGB. |

The bona fides of Nosenko's defection was the
subject of doubts and he was subjected to
extensive interrogation. He was in the custody
of CIA for some five years, under laws concerning
such persons, some three years of which was in
solitary confinement under what the Rockefeller
Commission termed “extremely spartan Living
conditions."

Eventually Nosenko was judged to be a bona fide
defector. He has proven to be’ the source of a
wide range of information on many hundreds of
KGB officers, and KGB operations abroad, as well
as about the KGB. Over the years his“information
has been responsible for a number of successful

counterintelligence initiatives by either the

VE OILY
