SECRET

© — Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) financial records.

ARRB staff plans to recommend to the Board that monthly summaries be considered ARs and the remaining material be designated NBR. -
Samples of these documents have been provided -to DA, DO, and DCIIAG. If you have any comments or objections, please forward them
to me by COB Wednesday. . . :

e Doctiments containing long lists of names, crypts, companies, etc. These include both Agency documents and notes of HSCA
staffers. (FY1- no action required at this time)

The ARR staff will ask the Board to delay processing of such documents and, in some cases, declare them NBR. The staff considers

them marginal te the story and believes that they are not worth the time involved.

{s) 2. We need to advise the ARRB staff no later than COB 12 November (Wednesday), if we plan to brief the Board o
andjo(______| Written evidence is due to ARRB staff by COB 13 November (Thursday}. They need at least one day to review the
material and prepara their presentations for the Board.

ecky Rant @ DA

erenry
104-10331-10202

 

 

SECRET
CL BY: 611637
GL REASOM: Section 1.66
‘DEC Ot XT
oav Fam: LOC 5-82
5 November 1997
MEMORANDUM FOR: : John Pereira @ DCI
. . Fred Wickham @ DO
Lee Strickland @ DA
Kathryn Dyer @ DC!
OCI
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
"OFFICE: CSIHRG
SUBJECT: 17 November JFK Board Meeting-- CIA issues update}
REFERENCE:

1. The following CIA items are on the agenda for the 17 November ARRB meeting:
@ — {S} Reconsideration of the release of ae as the location of the C1A Record Center.
in addition to written evidence being prepared by DA, the Agency has been offered the opportunity to brief the Board.

e Chairman Tunheim's proposal to advance the opening date of the Nosenko NBR (Not Believed Relevant) material from the 2017 per
the JFK Act to the year 2010: .

The ARRB staff disagrees with the Board on this issue and will recommend that the release date remain 2017. However, they are not
confident that-the Board will accept their recommendation and has requested the Agency's position on the 2010 date. If the Agency
opposes the 2010 change in the date, | will need a memo from the DC explaining why. We could offer a compromise--accept the 2010
date provided the Agency has the same right in 2010 as 2017 to review and appeal the release of the records. | have ask OGC for a legal
opinion. Please note that this decision affects only those documents designated "NBR" by ARRB. The documents declared to be
Assassination Records (AR} will be re-reviewed and released, either sanitized or in full, during the coming year.

@ — (8) Proposed release of reference to CIA employee being unde!)

We have provided written evidence (00 riote coordinated with According to the ARRB
staff, some Board members consider CIA use jas an “open secret” and are inclined to release. We have been offered the -
opportunity to brief the Board.

 

  
   

 

 

SECRET
