74-00000

CLABEIFICATION | DIGPATCH GYMBOL AND MUMBER 4

SBCcREeT

oy 12136

   

3. Im agseasing him, 1¢ ia of great intorest? to deterninas
ran attitads regurdiag whether or not hie goverment should to
2170 Antormed of hig cooperation. We would, of course, prefer a

ae enilateral operation if it is possible to conduct one vith a

wenscuable certainty that Iduatity will not infera his roverrment.
Hsvever, 1f he wishes hia goverment to know of fis activities
en our bskalf, we have no eignificant objections to so inforning
thea; bat we would prefer te present them with a fai¢ accongli:
i.e., “Identity hae agreed te work for as. fe are therefore
isforsing you FYI. Have you any derogatery information or ether

1 reason why Jou object to wer weing hie a0 a politienl sisarver?™

: Past oxpericnee indicates that if we eas prenent the matter to .

{ Xeentity'’s Inteliigeace Service thusly, there ig little likelihood

: that they will deny ua the opportunity to use se individual unless
there ie dercgatory inforeation.

' 4. If the Station prefers not to make the recruiteent, it
is avggested that JENTONS could atep in aiter the assenement hag
teen coapleted.

: &. Koxico Lise traces and conmenta are
i requested, particularly from Copenhagen 1f NESTEGO's decigion

Bot to recruit Identity's guperior (COPE 3101 (Ea#-3eG89) 16 July 63)
bas any bearing cm the projgagal im the dispatch.

‘

i
3
i

a am ee am te +

i -
t :
ia gina er tll mos oe nd Re na ims ee gehen ca

 

 
104.4024 1-10420

 

    
 
   
  
 
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
    
 
   
  
   
 

  
  
    
   

DOSTESSING ACTION

 

| ausees Ce UCU _

  

-_eni$a of Stutiom Hexico C K [ronson est
wo ie ~ | omy o.aro ose

___@bier of Station, ]ameavntaten:- yiereemone
ro :
| 2iGbtet, WR Diviston ee ee (ee
ment . . .

“PORTWEN - Foasible Operational Lead

‘ACTION BL QUIAED - REFERENCED

Lamaagt Anssoerent of Identity

a. “A,'8¢ ig requested that Identity be assessed for possible

~" pecruiteent as an taset against PROYUMEN, MEZE 4151, 4269, and
$433 plus travel listings show that Identity traveled to PERUMER
and returned te Merico City on 13-41 April and 22 Jane-2 July
‘of this year. Heauquarterg traces revealed that be was ia
PRAUKEN to negotiate regarding hia country's frozen assste there,
enc algo to negotiate for the rolease ox one of his countrymen who
had bees arrested for elleged espionage activities. We assume .
that Identity's superior has aade Identity responsible for matters

’. Pertaining to PARUMEN, and that he will be travelling to PRRUXEN

two or three times a year. It would ba important: to determine the
euration of his present tour of duty; he hag already served there
three years. Other Headguerters traces on IDENTITY are forearded
ia Enclosure, ag ig a biographical sketch on Identity's father.
4s Kaclosure shows (assuming only that Identity resided with bia
father during bis teers), Identity spent bis youth (from 8 to 21
yeurs of age) in PRYRIME, graduating from a PBPRIME uaiversity.
Concidering hig and his Zanily's long residence here, there io
& reasonable likelihood that Identity te pro-PBPHIME and would
be cooperative. :

 

 

  

2. If ageesament ig fevorable end recruitzent is recommended,
it is suggested that the initial proposition be coached in, terms
of Identity becoming a political obscever for us, pet an espionage
agent; we prefer to solicit bis “confidential cooperation”, loping
to phase in covert requiremonts after be has cooperated for a
while aad has become accustomed to tcking d rection.

wee eg continued
' Speloserat
Identity and traces, «/s/e
Distribution: *.

_ B= Kamico City, w/ancl. u/a/e

le JHVAVE, v/encl, u/s/e
Yj dievenel. w/a/e

  

MOS FRE NUMBER

21=120-12

 

eae Wee Wee anes
