1400009

 

det me snow your viows ou

Per Auvit wvia ls Sud

   

LAY wade o pica for acu.tienal funda
up to $25,600 10 orcul to SsFiag ia in
bowlO.s Fen, wiips and equiprent tr the U.S.
Tucee watertois and nen will be Reve. -to eneta ;
iee Gad tne Oomini¢an -epiblic. involved io
these coves are the weapses sagmiiacturod oA
the vest toast. - acvised KAY treat 1 would
raise this lgsyue with the proper authoritics.
ip our discussion of ta:s need LAY considered
that with 915,000 be could cosnpletely rewsive ~
the aatter of the arng wanufactare and shapscat
to Couta Rica frwm the <est (cast of the J.S.A, ‘
Tox total that Av @sxcd for is $55,000. Please
this. a

 

 

uw. Taos Situaticn ip The Jk

BAY indicated that the loacerenip of

the JUbE 1s united, workin; effectively Su jebher
And that urepite the set-bach they have sulloered
by AAY*’s faidure to onfillyate, Tae org anixat.on
18 AS steuns at ths mewent AB Lb 18s been, LAY
Quviged ze that the t-tal JUS neaieran.p, tart ih,
pecpie war have sip,nea appileatiaca PMES BR ara
actually affiliated ip & Pores pean: 2H GELBRE
ta the bowugeldgpeinit wagner of Csn@e gbvded, 1B
betwern 4 to 3,000, LAY ree onitesS and funi ts
thet Sime is acalast bw ane tae JURE and tnat
galy action imsiue Cuba can reverse this tread,

 

 

   

 
 
  

B. SAY Erets 9 th Pres
Pregident Figwtes apc

  

PAY met With Chess three eon. ame
on arrivin, ta Caste ites. pe ndvased i
the couperation of tase 1p i6 wAcellent ana
that ac eould not as: for better 2 ippssrt.

   

 

eather of U.S.
,on arose d:rins

BAY teld se that thic
feolings tovarc nas eri apieald
President Uilich’s e.e:b sith Presiaenh Jansen
and that .¢ was Uriich'’s suppression that zr.
Junasen did uot know a vrcat deal about Pat,

 

   

 
   

 

  
 

404-10180-10071

 

  

20 August 1904

MABOHANUUM POR THK KACOKD .
SIBJECT: Meeting with Hanue) FAY 1m Ban Jose,

Costa kica

“3

2. [ met with Mamucl RAY in Sag Joge, Coata Kica

on 7 aad 8 Auguet 19¢4. The xeetin: was routine; the +
busthess transactc’a :a briefly sumsariged below.

A, No Operations frow U.S. Territory

1 reiterated to KAY that 3:t was our
understanding that be would pet Jaunch any
operetions trom U.S. teiriters. FAY under-
steod ana Agrved bo thin. we did say, however,
tnat rumors cf such activity, could peuseibly
reach us for the neat few weeke cnasuuch as
tt would tare him suce little wails te reorsent
the activities and thinkin, of some o1 iia
fvllowers. 7 :

b. FAY Again Pisses to 1ntiltrate tuba

nAY hopes tu infiltrate inte Cuba
within tae mext 10 to 20 days. This new
eikurt wil] be cade fros danaica: The ¢caact
point fiw which .f 21] be made vas not told
nt, Dut 1:6 26 suppeeedly irce Land ward by an
Aneracap Jiv.a, :m Jasaica sod at a point
apprexieadtely 60 miles from Cava. The island
of Jarmica .tgelf Lica more clawely tu more
tnan 100 miles off Cuba. FAY 15 B,a-n @ littlis
confused ws opexataonal details 2G: hie speahins
of sone bit of land closer tu Cuba that may
actca@lly fall within Jasgican authorats.

 

 
 

 

bue that Er. Manno had joined tie (uaveraat loa
to nay that beth xAY’s group apc that of

AKTIME were copd onus. t-hervas tals vas
“yar's version, | Pamet of Station,
Ban Joeo, adv. dv: P, Jonson regurtedly

atated tuat ATIbS was the mero reapangible of
the tue to which Piesidwat orlich reportealy
countered wits, “i think just tae vppugite is
Qrue;” tCuat is, bust LAY is the more rospuneible
of the two.) :

95 2. 1 mot with the Chiof of ttation in testa Eica,

i advised hin of the reaava ior
Be boim, there and we discussed tnais vperation in detail.
a@ @pted if it wauld nut be wise to infors the Anbassader
of wy praemece aud ocbavity. i bul usm that in view of
the fact that State was wel} aware of our agynve lativa
with KAY and Che possibility that the Apbassader pirat

hear throuch other, channole of wry presence, 1 anreod
with hat he_ohould mivige tho Anbarrador
of are 1 <a ones | pena thas gaa a
f@.riy delicate mattcr and tha We ARVESSEGGr shold
understand that this wae for hia tufocmatien only.

3 y wieh &o conside: acnaing @ cable to
tnforsing hia OF our degire to hoop the
fact of war Bupport te uAY fietted to tha febageadar,

(Trig will be dew by the Costa rican deek of an.)

 

 

 

   

ALFONSO ROORCGUES
Bu /AA/SBU/AK

 
