 

 

 

I

e. It was noted that the 201 file of the
person in question (Proenza) had been reviewed
for the period from January 1963 through May 1964.
The DDCI emphasized the sensitivity of the operation,
especially in the light of certain current develop-
ments. We stated that the file had been reviewed
by two named officers for the period requested,
and that they reported that it contained no reference
to assassination plotting or the subject of the
investigation. The DDCI stated that if the
Chairman insisted we could bring the file for him
to review personally. Mr. Blakey then stated that
there was an allegation that Proenza had been recalled
to Cuba as part of a Cuban inquiry into knowledge
within the Cuban government about Oswald and the
assassination, in addition to which there is a tele-
phone transcript in which Proenza seems to have
indicated that she had advance knowledge of the
assassination. (We had assumed that the HSCA
interest in Proenza was based on the coincidence
in time of her being recalled to Cuba, but were
not previously aware of either of the two allega-
tions Blakey revealed). On the basis of this show-
ing of relevancy the DDCI agreed for Mr. Blakey
to review the file of the special operation for
the period requested. Mr. Blakey stated that he
could read Spanish sufficiently well to handle it
personally. |

3. %It is noted that Mr. Blakey stated that the
Mexico City story is to be told in the public hearings
without any reference to CIA, or its presence in Mexico.

4. Mr. Blakey also stated that no testimony will

be sought from the DCI until December.

S.D. Breckinridge

Distribution:
Orig - OLC/Subject

1 - OLC/Chrono

1 - Mr. Shepanek (PCS/LOC)

1 - Mr. Sturbitts (LA Division) (se
1 - DDO

1.- DDA

1 -

Mr. Rininger (0GC)

 
104-10065-10026

 

 

{ OLC # 78-30/ e/ el

15 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : Meeting between DDCI and Chairman Stokes, HSCA

1. The DDCI, with Mr. Hitz and the undersigned, met
with Chairman Stokes yesterday afternoon at the Cannon
Building. Mr. Blakey was with Mr. Stokes.

2. The discussion covered the five points in the
letter of 11 September from Mr. Stokes as follows:

‘a. The question of the "mug book" has been
resolved.

b. We believed that the "missing memorandum"

. had, in fact, been reviewed on five separate occasions
in two different files. The problem was that it did
not bear a number, although in a series. of sequentially
numbered debriefing memoranda of AMMUG. However, the
time of the memo was such that it had to fall between
others in that sequence, and was on the subject
(Oswald) in which they were interested. The HSCA
investigator had been told of this. Mr. Stokes
asked that we simply write a letter explaing this,
and stating our opinion that. this was the case.

c. The Security files ‘of the employee, which
they wished to review were described by the DDCI
as containing information of a personal nature about
the employee. Mr. Blakey or Mr. Cornwell could
review it. This was accepted. ;

d. After emphasizing the sensitivity.of the
Mexico City history, the irrelevance of\ jyears
to the inquiry, and the nature of the Agéncy's
status there, the DDCI stated that Mr. Blakey and
Mr. Cornwell could review. it in unsanitized form.
That was accepted.

 

e.ck..tMpper cv By. G2L 22,

S71

 
