74-0000

wel

(4) To use AbiMUG-1 for making pitches to selected
targets, agents first and stalfera second as explained above,

'o provide the information acquired from debriefing

: oO = ay taalsal h xy

L; prompt them to take any action as we may wish,

G) To gv pertinattfornaio | OY
who can help us in locating and nionitoring targets:

d, Meanwhile, as in the AMNIP-1 case (another Cuban 13
defector who has provided us with consideraole information and
has-been used in a number of approaches), to digseminate appropriate
information to the U.S. intelligence community. In the case of
pergonalities, the CSCI dissemination would conaint only of blographic
and descriptive data furnished by AMAIUG-1, inching apprupriate
Headquarters traces. We would request information from then: in
return. (Taia procedure hag been used In the AMNIP-1 case. )

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f. To work out in cooperation with the CI and CA staffs what
¢an be done in the event it oiay be useful at son.e future date to
publicize AMMUG-I's defection by releasing certain information to
the press or by possibiy having hin. appear before the Crganisatlon
of Anerican States,

3. The above represents a general outline of what our overall
planning has beén in connection with the AN.A:UG-I case since we
wrought him to the United States. The role of WH/SA/Cl as | under-
stand it ia to manage and coordinate the overall aspects of the
operation and to zee that no unilateral action as taken by any one
interested desk or office that o.ay have dan.aying affects on other
aspects of the operation,

Distribution: Marold F. >wenson
Orig & he WTS c : Chief, WH/SA/CI
2s WH/s SA/ Keri
 

104-40187-10038

 

eS

“WH/SA 64-480
25 June 1964

.MENMCRANDUM FOR: Chef, WH/Operations (ur. Hood)

VIA : 3: Deputy Chief, WH/SA (Ar. Cheever)
SUBJECT 3: Handling of AMMUG-I Operation

L During a meeting with Mr, Hood, C/WH/Ops; Bir. Cheever,
DC/WH/SA and Mr. Swenson, C/WH/SA/CI on 23 June 1964,
Aur, Swenson reve wed the following points concerning the handling
of the AMMUG-~-1 operation, These points were the subject of
earlier discussions by A.r, Swenson and the various Branch chiefs
in WH Division.

2. From the outset WH/SA/CI's proposed action for handling

AbiMUG-1 has deen:

a. To debrief AMiaUG-1 soonest and to get the information
to the appropriate country desks as soon as possible. To run
traces, including field traces, and to analyze the results. Tiaces
to be run by WH,/SA/CI on Cunan Is staffers and by the WH country
desea on Cuban IS agents in their respective countries.

b.. To select the best targets froin the individuals identified
by AMMUG-1 and to hit them in order of priority, considering thelr

overall value, chance of success, accessability and perishability.

The selection of targets to be done jointly oy WH/SA/CI and the

Ql) To give consideration to approaching the Cuban IS
agents before the Cuban 15 staffers since the agents are less likely
to how about AM3.UG~-l's defection and in most cases they have a
greater communication provie:a in reporting back tu the DG]. (Tho
Cuban IS staffers known to ABLASUG~i can not all be recalled or
transferred, and even if transferred could stil! te hit by AMAUG-L )

 
