 

 

pl

-2-

obtained from his trip which could not be held until his
return to New York could be given to Roberto in Paris for
transmission to the undersigned at Headquarters. .

Rafael Garcia-Bango Dirube

4, AMWHIP-1 was asked if he knew Garcia Bango (GB)
‘whom.we described as a lawyer, 33 years old, who had just
arrived in Madfid and claimed that he had a message
obviously coming from. AMLASH-1 or members ef his group.
AMVHIP-t replied that he ‘knew GB who had been a friend — ;
of AMLASH-1"s for the past twenty years. ANWHIP-1 stated >

.-that GB was essentially a crook, and his assessment of 20-
"GB corresponded pretty well with that forwarded in GIADR) 3486

sCIN 24295). . ANWHIP-i stated it was possible, but not
probabié, that GB had been sent by the ANLASH. group te. (3-2
convey the message as indicated in the forementioned (MADR)

- cable, AMWHEP-I-further stated he felt GB would be

personally loyal to AMLASH-1 in spite of any DSE suggestion
to the contrary. (This again is a feeling which AMWHIP-1
had and:is not to be taken as gospel.) He also mentioned
the brother of GB, Jorge, on whom there are a number of
traces at Headquarters.

5. AMWHIP-1 also discussed the contents of a letter
received from AMLASH-2, The essential part of this letter
plus a telephone Gall from ANLASH-3 from Madrid was that
ANLASH-3 was somewhat upset by the fact that he was having
difficulty in getting a visa for the u. S, and/or the
Dominican Republic. AMWHIP-1 then spent considerable
time discussing the treatment of AMLASH-2 and AMLASH-3 in
Qadri by KUBARK, He said he felt that AMLASH-2 and
ANLASH-3 should be contacted by KUBARK and treated and

handled well. If this were done, they would both serve a

“very useful purpose for KUBARK ends both in Europe and in

Cuba, The undersigned told AMWHEP-1 that we essentially
agreed with his position and would take up the matter with
our superiors when we returned tq Washington, On the -
matter of the visa for AMLASH-3, we pointed out that we
could ‘not intercede for AMLASH-3 in either case because it
would be compromising to him. To illustrate the point we
explained that both governments knew that AMLASH-3 was a
Captain in-the Rebel Army and had up until recently been
working actively for a ministry of the Cuban Government

and therefore considered a Cuban official working in behalf
of the Castro Government. As such ANLASH-3, or anyone in
that position, would not be entitled to enter either country
under normal circumstances. We pointed out that theCuban
Government in all probability knew of this; and, if AMLASH-3
 

ANTO CIA
Do Not Reproduc

19 Warch 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD . oo.

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP-1 in New York City,
17 March 1965 .

Meeting Time/Place/Purpose:

1. The undersigned met ANWHIP-1 at the del Pezz
Restaurant, 33 West 47th St., at 1300 hours on T7 Vareh
or the purpose of briefing him on better telephone
security while in Europe, Other operational matters ag
discussed below were broached, -

Details of the Meetin 3
TENS OF the Hoot ing 5-4

2, In response to a request from Paris) AMWHIP-1
was given a security briefing for his trips to Europe,
We paid Particular attention to the need for security .
consciousness® tephoning his KUBARK contacts at

the variou n Europe,:; ressed France in
Particular t had been ents, A nen reported a
y

and said he would adhere to it in the future. He in

take place, We stated we would take this up with Roberto
in Paris prior to AMWHIP-1's projected trip during the
week of 21 March,

3. It was aTso Sue ested to AMWHIP-1 that due to
the Sensitivity of t GNSNAFU-19 CA operation he was
about to undertake, he forego meeting any KUBARK staffers
zn Europe during his forthcoming trip. He was told he

specifically requested by Roberto and his meetings with
Roberto should be kept to a minimum, Any information he
 

on

suececded easily in entering either country, this would
be a rather obvious indication to the Cuban DSE that
LAMLASH-3 must be cooperating with one or the other govern-
ment, AMWHIP~1 accepted the explanation and felt it
would be readily understandable and a good excuse to give

‘to AMLASH-3.

6, AMWHEIP-1 also talked at length on the subject of
_ AMBEDDY-1 and ANLASH-1. He repeated his previous position
that the. marriage. of AMBIDDY-1 and AMLASH-1 would brood
no good, that an “‘annecessary number of people now know of
AMLASH-1's plans, and that AMLASH-1 himself was very.

’ skeptical of the arrangement with AMBIDDY-1. Furthermore,

as a result of this, he is somewhat unsure of his position
vis-a-vis ODYOKE.

. 7. AMWHIP-1 said he would advise us of his exact
departure date in the.event we had any further instructions
for him, The meeting terminated at 1520 hours. There were
no incidences of a security nature to report. .

£2

 

 
