 

Adntexvention could help swaying many men of the Regine who .

would tapst more the seriousness of the enterprise, The
following men are suggested for participation in the next
ae stages of “Leonardo” ; |

i @) Dr. Reul Chibas, ox-Rebel Arny Major.

@) - Raul Barandels, ex-Rebel Army Captain,
. Hubert Matos ‘group.

(3): Aldo Nera, ex-Rebel Arey Major. 7455 nn7Za ( 18h

7 a. Enrique Barreso Do:
 ex-Rebel Army: Lieutenant,

(5) Julio Cesar Alonso,
. ex-Cuban Navy Captain.

(6) Mario Yontela, ex-CTC leader, hae contacts with
Rebel array and agrarian leaders in the provinces.

“OD - Reiualdo Crus (Simon), ex-Cuban Air Force capt.
m)) “Francisco Ilias, ex-Hilitia Captain.

- (9) Dr. Antonio de la Carreze, ex-secretary of
forner president Manuel Urrutis..

. qo) Humberto Armada, sa-ceptain Cuban Arny and
i _ . Air Force.

“@a) Antonio Peres, ex-Cuban Marine officer.
(12) Alvare Romero, ex~Rebel Army captain.
(13) Pablo Campos, ex-Rebel Arny. captain.
_ ~~ 14) Gutierrez Menoyo, ex-Rebel Army Major.
(15) Berta Ferrer, ex-member of anti-Batista underground,
znove a peree. number ot Rebel Army officers having
(16) Jose Lopez Castillo, ex-Rebel Army captain.
. ° (27) ‘Alberto Padilla, ex-INRA functionary.
4B) br. Hiren ‘Sahches, ex-Rebel. Army captain,

(9) Dr, Manuel Marinas, a negro anti-Batista leader,
hes great prestige among Havana forner underground,

(An additional Lshsanbe furnished upon request.
~~ Tw . ;

tee ae attpetome Fe TT . . ole . ae “pee b

   
 

mo. .

= mo 4

. ‘ ™> .
cea a ae 2

“All of the above are former members of 26 of
a: "July Yev., Students! Directorate (DRE)

Front, ‘and have

The

and Ir Egcaubray
friends in Havana and in the provinces.

detaiis of thig operation have been
. dtecussed oply with Dr. Nestor Moreno and Enrique Cayada, .

re _ Miami, February 3, 1963

Pe ane

 

2 nes meep giszemepecee oo

 
74-0000

 

freeden so ‘Ynat Cuban people may once more govern themselves",
i | ‘This phrase is the leit-motif of "Leonardo",
. 2) .MODUS OPERANDI: =. ,
a LATE WI = on’ .
_ LEONARDO i Two men, Enrigue Cavado Rivera 24,
and. Antonio Garcia Perez 29, would disembark: near Punts
Jijira, between Boca de Jaruco and ‘Santa Crux del Norte.
_ At. thie very: Place’ ‘(Punta Jijiva), a. oun farm, ‘property of
‘Antonio Garcia Peres is. located, where hig father and a local -
laborer are ‘Living. Garcia father’ 8 car is always on the

 

premises and would be used to take the two men to Havana,
“Enrique Cayado's fanily ‘ts in Havana and one of-hia friends,

Elsa. Maria Negrin, secretary of Jose Rebellion, leader of
, University Btudents Federation Q@PEU), can be counted to |

1

serve. also ag.his cover and. guide, In order to determine the
-Preaent attitude of military and civilian officials. who have ;
| possibilities to organize or speed up the internal opphenvals,

the following contacts would be used: (A) { )

(B) (Cc) Miaa Juanita Castro Ruz.

 

 

 

and ve widespread
Contacts within the Government and it is known that Juanita
Castro, Fidel Castro's sister, ia also. helping the under-
ground, ‘She is currently in Mexico. _
Enrique » Cayado and Antonio Garcia would return
to the U. 8. after two or three weeks, with messages, _
opinions and suggestions from their contacts in Cuba.

 

~2e

‘ an 9) aL
filoisi sles

 

. MN

 
 

(testo 0235

 

 

 

 
 

Cre ney

; 5 SEU

OPERATION "LEONARDO"
1.— OBJECTIVES:
32> OBIRCTIVES

To. establish contact with elements.

within the Government, Rebel Army and Militia, in order to

panalize inte action their present. anti-communist feeling

and induce. those who maintain a passive attitude ‘but. who

- are potentially susceptible to turn against the Regine,
‘to act now.. The future plan of action and the @ize and de~
7 velopment of the present operation would be determined af~

_ ter first contacts are made and information. thus gathered,

is evaluated. . However, “Leonardo” should be considered as

merely a first step ‘towards coordination of anti-Castro

elements within the. ‘Cuban Government, for producing an in-
ternal. upheaval.

It ‘is the opinion of people with con-
tacts din Cuba,- that the moment to act is now, because the
conditions for action are ripening steadily. Reliable in-
formation from the Island ‘points out to the gradual inter-
nal . softening of the Castro Regime, to tensions existing
among its members, and to the effect President Kennedy's
words had in the highest governmental Cuban circles who
are said to have acknowledged with sympathy his phrase
that "I am confident that all over the. island of Cuba, in
the Government itself, in the Arny, in the Militias, there
are: any who +s. have viewed with dismay the destruction ~

of freedom faith and who are determined te ‘restore that

CR RETURN TO CIA
; woes Background Use Only
coe ee . Do Not Reproduce

     
 

wee -LEONARDO Il: Throe disembarcation points

are planned for this operation: a) the outer keys off Santa

Clara Bry. (Matanzas province), b) keys oft Caibarien, ec)

keys off Corraliile area (Las Villas province), Santa Clara

Bay keys are thought most advisable as they are inhabited

by. fishernen and charcoal workers only and military patrols

visit ‘them very infrequently, because of extrenely difficult

‘ living. conditions there.” Tro men employed in this mission:
: Dr. Nestor Moreno ‘41, and Miguel Diaz y Sel gue 23, would
. rtd dente | ene ean enn

‘use one of the fishermen (who are known to be willing to

work against Castro and had worked with them before), to go

“to the meiniand and proceed to Cardenas with the message to

‘arrange a meeting with Comandante Ramon Guin or a person he
aan eee mmanae

designates. The round trip to Cardenag might take two or

three days. If conditions are favorable and a meeting can

be arranged at once, the two men would go inland. However,

if the rendézvous with Cuban contacts cannot take place

immediately, they would have to return to Key Sal or any

- other base and go back on the date or dates previously fixed

  

by the message. Through Comandante G who works in una.
and travels around the country, ‘and through anti-Castro. army
and civilian elements already active in Cardenas and Mart,

the following army officers would be contacted initially:

Comandante Guerra, Comandante Parra, Comandante Jose Pinares,
. on caremee” teens hcoeeennneneehtinimmmnatt Leela ceeaaamteliiinm tenement

Capitan Manuel Avila, Capitan Lawton. _From there on the

contacts would be enlarged.

 
 

The above mentioned officers were ap-

proached before Pig's Bay and agreed to participate in Ne-
bel Army uprising in Las Villas province asa part of in

ternal-external anti-Castro Plan. After: Play Giron, which

: upset that Plan, they remained in the Government and are

said .to be ‘disposed to do it again.
3. BUQUPMENT: '
. A 25 or 27 Speed boat which can navigate

in shallow waters and can cruise at 40 knots. Identifics..

tion docunents, Cuban money and small amount of ‘arms.

‘Data’ about Cuban sea patrols in Havana and Yatanzas provinces,

equipment for communications, once contacts are established,

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS:
_ 4:>_SENERAL OBSERVATIONS
; It is considered that although the major-

ity -of officials whom the participants of the missions plan
: to talk to have no political ambitions and will act against

Castro for purely ideological reasons, minimum of assurances

. 4
and promises have to be offered. It is also a concensus of

' -epiades; that once initial steps are successfully accomplished

tee

 

an additional number of persons shoujd be used for the devel~
opment of "Leonardo", working always in operational coordin-
ation. Each of them are known to have friends within the

Cuban Government and their personal and representative

tole fae lhe

Lo ’

armen

   
 

   
