 

,out the manuscript may also produce provocative if not alarming con-

 

people. Our cover staff provided me with documentation
that would support the operational alias I was to Hive with
for the duration of the Project: Edward J.: Hamilton. I
.drew a travel advance and flew to Tampa where I boarded a
National Airlines Might to Havana." :

Hunt's file--On 27 September 1960 action was taken to pro-
vide alias documentation to Howard Hunt in the name of
Edward J. Hamilton. This documentation included a bonafide
District of Columbia driver's permit in alias including a

| backstopped residence address. Later, in June of 1963 a
post office box in Washington, D.C. was established for Hunt
under the name, Edward J. Hamilton.

A rather casual review of the rest of the manuscript indicates
general similarity of the descriptive data of the author's ( Edward J.
Hamilton's ) activities with regard to the Cuban situation and the actual
facts regarding E. Howard Hunt and his Agency role.

it is quite clear that at least a number of minor compromises
of security are involved here. Additionally, personal opinion regarding
a number of prominent and in some cases former Agency employees
could be considered controversial if not actually damaging. Beginning
on page 214, the manuscript describes General Cabell's role in the
Cuban episode and it can be assumed that this presentation would do
little to add to General Cabell's reputation. Other references through -

sequences when reviewed by those concerned or described.

 

 

 

 

i hon,
cool bn thie second
8 were seated around
Gardner, American

- the spacious office of the Hon. Arthur
_. i Ambassador to Cuba" ( then in Havana:

 
74-00000

 

Hunt's file--travel. order dated 19 November 1956 authorized
Hunt to travel to and from Havana on TDY during the period
7-15 December 1956.

b) Manuscript, page 8, 9-- "In 1926, at the height of the
Florida boom, my father was practicing law in Miami Beach";
the manuscript goes on to indicate that Subject's father had a
serious problem with his business partner which related to
missing funds and the partnership was dissolved.

_ Hunt's file--Subject's personal history statement reveals that

Subject's father was an attorney. A Dun and Bradstreet report
dated 16 January 1945 indicated that when Subject's father was
with L..R. Steel Company as an attorney in the 20's that the
company failed with disastrous results, however, Subject's
father was exonerated after an investigation.

¢) Manuscript, page 10-- "In March of 1960 1 was having coffee
with the newly-elected president of the country ( Uruguay ) to
which I was assigned when a station officer was admitted."

The manuscript goes on to indicate that Hunt had to report to
Washington.

 

 

 

Lhe on od

Hunt's file-- Hunt had been assigned to
an ceived in Headquarters from
the dicated that President

; | [pad asked President Eisenhower to have Hunt's tour
extende The file further reflects a trayel order
dated 20 June which ordered Hunt from lo
Washington with travel to commence in early May °

d) Manuscript, page 19-~- “having served several years in M
Mexico" ;

‘Hunt's file-- Subject was assigned to Mexico City under cover.
in December 1950 and was returned PCS from Mexico City to
Washington on 1 March 1955.

e) Manuscript, page 23--"Reporting my failure to Quarters
Eye I returned to Washington and conferred with Barnes, Jake

and Bender. They recommended, and I agreed, that I ought to
visit Havana to savor the atmosphere and mingle with the Cuban

emerey
eek th

-2-

SFO

 
74-0000

 

6 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Research Staff

FROM : Chief, Liaison and External Operations Branch
SUBJECT : Manuscript: Give Us This Day

Author: Edward J. Hamilton

A letter from Tom Wallace of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston,
Inc. book publishers dated July 9, 1968 and addressed to Bill
Buckley of the National Review discusses subject publication and
indicates that Holt, Rhinehart declined publication because the man-
uscript by Hamilton was considered "far too controversial". A note
from Saroyan accompanying the manuscript indicated that Buckley
had sent this manuscript to Arlington House. A Henry Durkin now
publicity manager for Walker and Company handled this manuscript
while he, Durkin, was working for Arlington House some time ago.
Walker and Company have just recently declined to publish the man-
uscript apparently for the same reason as Holt, Rhinehart and
Arlington House. It was noted that Arlington House rejected the
manuscript as controversial because they had no way of checking
out the facts.

A review of the first few pages of the manuscript rather
clearly show this to be the work of E. Howard Hunt ( OS file #23500),
presently a staff employee assigned to the European Division of DDP.
The following items culled from the manuscript were compared with
factual data in Mr. Hunt's security file:

a) Manuscript, page 6--'"The air was cool on this second
day of December 1956.....twenty of us were seated around

the spacious office of the Hon. Arthur Gardner, American
Ambassador to Cuba" ( then in Havana’)

 

SECRET
 

[tos tota-tres .

 

pores

   

       
    
 
 

   

IFICATION TOP AND Bi

SENDER WILL CHECK CL.
CONFIDENTIAL |__|

UNCLASSIFIED

 
 

|_|

R ket Perhaps the reasons for not publishing
‘the manuscript go beyond “ehecking on the
facts", etc, It copld be that publishers

gee this as an Agency effort to covertly tell
%

 
     
        
   
   

 
   

A, ld ew Xe
eal ot IN EL a

Foam 7 937 tne previous editions ; “Po: 1968 ©

RETUAN TO CAs gonpoid:
Background Use Only Aug esn Pitot
‘Do Not Reproduce + Wig OLNENIY
74-0000

 

 

Hunt's file-- travel order dated a9 November 1956 authorized
Hunt to travel to and from Havana on TDY ‘during the period
7-15 December 1956. . os

b) Manuscript, page 8, 9--'"In 1926, at the height of the

Florida boom, my father was practicing law in Miami Beach";
the manuscript goes on to indicate that Subject's father hada
serious problem with his business partner which related to
missing funds and the partnership was dissolved.

Hunt's file--Subject's personal history statement reveals that
Subject's father was an attorney. A Dun and Bradstreét report
dated 16 January 1945 indicated that when Subject's father was
with L. R. Steel Company as an attorney in the 20's that the
company failed with disastrous results, however, Subject's
father was exonerated after an investigation.

c) Manuscript, page 10-~- "In March of 1960 I was having coffee
with the newly-elected president of the country ( Uruguay } to
which I was assigned when a station officer was admitted."

The manuscript goes on to indicate that Hunt had to report to

Washington.
fb -D4

 

Hunt's file~- Hunt had been assigned tol |
and le di eceived in Headquarters trom

th indicated that President

ad agked President Eisenhower to have Hunt's tour
extended in The file further reflects _a travel order
dated 20 June 1960 which ordered Hunt fro: °
Washington with travel to commence in early May 1960.

 

 

 

 

 

ad) Manuscript, page 19-- "having served several years in .
Mexico"

Hunt's file-- Subject was assigned to Mexico City under-cover.

in December 1950 and was returned PCS from Mexico City to
Washington on 1 March 1958.

e) Manuscript, page 23--'Reporting my failure to Quarters
Eye I returned to Washington and conferred with Barnes, Jake

and Bender. They recommended, andi agreed, that I ought to
visit Havana to savor the atmosphere and mingle with the Cuban

SECRET

-2-

Sad
74-0000

sd ; wv

people. Our cover staff provided me with documentation
that would support the operational alias I was to live with
for the duration of the Project: Edward J. Hamilton. I
drew a travel advance and flew to.Tampa where I boarded a
National Airlines flight to Havana."

Hunt's file--On 27 September 1960 action was taken to pro-
vide alias documentation to Howard Hunt in the name of
Edward J. Hamilton. This documentation included a bonafide
District of Columbia driver's permit in alias including a
backstopped residence address. Later, in June of 1963 a
post office box in Washington, D.C. was established for Hunt
under the name, Edward J. Hamilton.

A rather casual review of the rest of the manuscript indicates
general similarity of the descriptive data of the author's (Edward J.
Hamilton's ) activities with regard to the Cuban situation and the actual
facts regarding E. Howard Hunt and his Agency role.

It is quite clear that at least a number of minor compromises
of security are involved here. Additionally, personal opinion regarding
a number of prominent and in some cases former Agency employees
could be considered controversial if not actually damaging. Beginning
on page 214, the manuscript describes General Cabell's role in the
Cuban episode and it can be assumed that this presentation would do
little to add to General Cabell's reputation. Other references through-
out the manuscript may also produce provocative if not alarming con-
sequences when reviewed by those concerned or described.

_ 8B

 

 

 

 

ed C7LEOB SF

WFM/ark

 

mt |

-3-

VID
