 

 

00 53a) use previous coinoN,

Dae atom ey MCR ANU AU MO ER

{CONTIRUATION OL.
"_psratew

 

threat posed, y ‘Gaba, they will ‘take ‘euch acticn ag ‘is
‘app:opriate in their ovn spheres of influcrice to emphasize

the threat that Cuba represents to the free world.

££. The attached report was prepared with the intention
of having it. presented in the Orjsanization of American States
but this proposa} has boen abandoned b:cause of objections
raised by the Government of Mexico. Nonetheless, the Kexican

Government did say that it does not oppose bi-latcral discus-
sions betwcen IG and each of the coyntrics concerned.
foi Ger’

>

3fm Ye. sungested that th pake available to
the Chic one copy of the § ene copy of the
English version tor his ready reference. {[f ae wishes to sake
copics available to a Latin American diplomat for passage to his
own country, Headquarters cicarance should be obtained before
copies are furnished. This is because Headquarters is end-savoring
to make appropriate arrangements for passage of the paper through
other channels. It is believed, therefore, that the most

‘appropriate use of the material would be as _back,roind for

discussion with xndividual representatives of latin Arcrican
countries. However, thcre is no objection to its being used as
a basis for tneir conments or reports to their own overnm nts.

Hate A. headquarters! ig.interested Ii any comments that Chief
may make concerntny the material itself or concern ag
the reaction of those individuals meen en he discusses it.

 

) aacemcmmasale
Distri IS
roan

w/o atts

 

Attachments: AgIUG rcports’ ”

ELASEIFICATION 7 ] PAGE NO.

L] coNnNUED

  
 
 

2

   
     
   
     
   
 
 
  
 
  
 

 
 

 

 
 

  
  

     
     
 
 
 

 
  
   

GP
 

 

 

  

which are intended to unséat thé existing xovermerts of Latia |
- America. coe

oe Kopp faba Dd
2. It is suggested. that either 46, in.
providing the material to the Chief of € r o him

that the source of the inforrstion was responsible for the conduct
- ‘of espionage and gucyrilla warfare in El Salvador, in which
country tho Chief oTegeSaseter nas & particular interest because of

his previous service. The following infornation also may bo of
interest to the Chief of

a. During the time that the defected CUIS officer
worked as a country desk officer for the CUIS, he took advantage
of every opportunity to have coffed in the offices of his
colleagues responsible for other countrics. ‘hen it became
necessary for them to leave their offices he seized the
opportunity ¢ arloin various documents which he subsequ atly i
surrendered oeemaecet In addition ke brought with him a
gumber of docuncnts from his own files concernin,: operations
in El Salvador. . ——-

 

 

   

a | CANE
mre 3 KF’ 1855

j OS Flue MA .
1946/102. 4 .f

     
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

WH/C/SP
WE/5
WH/ESEC
RID ‘Files

mt bend eat ped
bbe

_WH/2
ip FRG wart

ae | teres wT FITC

WHSC MO

 
   

     
 
  
   

 

 
    

N53" 530 use erevious commi3n

 

 
