13-00000

 

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Proposed Declassification of Tnformation on
Anatoliy Golitsy ;

names and alien registration numbers of his two
dependents would also be déclassified. [___ understands that the
rationale for the ARB’s release of this information is public

availability of the name |

4. (8) —serongtl believes that the ratiohale for
declassifying Mr. Golitsyn)s use of [ J is
inadequate given that: :

-~-The classified: information scheduled for declassification
and release to the public contains the resettlement “pseudonym”
of not only Mr. Golitsyn, but also his two family members who
resettled in. the U.S. with|him. Those family members’ names were
not repeat not exposed

=> case, erred in identifying the name,

as a “pseudonym.” The name was a
resettlement identity assigned to the Golitsyn family which was
used to establish their new lives. In contrast to pseudonyms
(which have no basis in reality and have no backstopping) and
even operational aliases (which may have minimal backstopping and
could be used for a few operations and then discarded),
resettlement identiti iving identities: If the
resettlement identity as once publicly affiliated with
the Golitsyn family, the pérsonal history of all three Golitsyn >
family members (not just Mr. Golitsyn) would be highly vulnerable
to being researched since, |as resettlees build their new lives,
they establish public records.. Many of these records are now
readily available and exploitable on the Internet. .

--Even if the Golitsyns have changed their resettlement
identities through the years, one important piece of identifying
data has remained constant} i.e. their alien registration
numbers. If’ these numbers|are declassified and made publicly
available, then the-Golitsyns’ other resettlement identities,
including their current names, can be The release of
the Golitsyns’ full names, | (note that did not expose
Mr. Golitsyn’s ‘full name) or alien registration numbers will
compromise their current resettlement identities and places of
residence held throughout all their resettlement identities.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
     
 
  

 

5. (S) -Mr. Golitsyn} like other resettlement cases, places
a unique trust in the Agen¢y: That it will protect his identity,
security and not publicly disclose his unique relationship with

2

SECRET

bid | aan . ; MABE :? REBT TCT NAL

Baer a ene

ot stil Bintan
 

104-10331-10158
7

SECRET .

NROC-104-98
12 June 1998

 

    

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Review Group, OIM

FROM:

 
 

 

SUBJECT: | (8) propped Declassification. of Information on>
Anatoliy Golitsyn

1. (5) Action Reque ted: Request that the JFK
Assassination Review Board| (ARB) not declassify and release

 

information officially confirming that Mr. was
one of Anatoliy Golitsyn’s|former resettlement identities.
Additionally, request the ‘not release the alien registration

numbers issued to Mr. Golitsyn and his family members.

 

_ 2. (8) Background: .|Mr. Golitsyn, a 71-year-old former
high-level Soviet KGB offi¢er who defected in 1961, entered the
United States (U.S.) under|/PL-110, and became a naturalized U.S, :
citizen in 1976. The Counterintelligence Center (CIC) handled
Mr. Golitsyn from 1961 unti11 1991 when thet

aSsumed management oF the case. In the

ears immediately folio ing his defection, Mr. Golitsyn was
allowed to have direct access to high-level U.S. Government (USG)
officials and a substantial amount of classified material both of |
this Agency and other Western intelligence services. Since his
defection, this Agency has|attempted to keep Mr. Golitsyn
favorably disposed toward the USG and the Agency to prevent any
possible disclosure of his|role with us and other intelligence
services. .

 

 

 

3. (S$) In early May 1998 DO/IMS advised NROC that the ARB
intends to declassify, and|release to the public, information
syn initially used the “pseudonym”, Mr.
; upon arrival in the U.S, DO/IMS further advised ~-
that Mr. Golitsyn’s alien registration number, the previous full

CL BY 649002
REASON 1.5(c)
DECL Xl
DRV DEF 2-87

SECRET
Crs meee 7 ; WA? REBT SSTSNAL

 
 

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Proposed Deplassification of Information on
: Anatoliy Golitsy

 

the USG. Mr. Golitsyn, as|other resettlees, lives life in fear
of retribution from his former government. Official USG
confirmation of his relationship with the Agency may undermine
his and other's confidence} in the Agency’s commitment to be

vigilant regarding their security. Mr. Golitsyn is in his senior.

years and in poor health. | Should he perceive the release of this
information as a lessening) of the Agency’s security commitment,
it may exasperate his worsening medical condition. Should the
USG action lead to his compromise, we are obliged to expend funds
to resettle him once againl In the case of Mr. Golitsyn, this
Means resettling two entire households at high cost.

6. (S) Furthermore,|the recruitment of sources of high
intelligence value has always been this Agency’s top priority.
Public disclosure of this information could do irreparable damage
to our ability to attract individuals who admire the U.S. and
might be Gisposed to collaboration. Disclosure of cooperation
with the USG would cause any potential source to think twice

_before placing his life in|the hands of an organization who
cannot protect his information. For those individuals such as
Mr. Golitsyn, who placed their trust in this country in the past,
entered our resettlement program, and are now U.S. citizens, the
release of information with no real relevance to any national
issue, seriously. erodes this Agency’s credibility and undermines
our Resettlement. Program.

 

 

_3

SECRET

ca Ory AN Wdtp:2 866T*ST*NOL

tan aR «
 

 

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Proposed De¢lassification of Information on
Anatoliy Golitsyn

 

po] Yewa:58635 (12 Jun 98)

Distribution:
Orig ~ Addressee. _
1-
1 - RON

i- SUBJECT FILE

SECRET
S'd GEZ'ON : WEP 12

 

8663 ‘ST 'NNE

nit BLURB od os

 

 

i
i
1
‘

i
1
!
i
!
