(SEGRE \

In Merch 1953 he misrepresented himself as a polygraph operator with the

“State Department Secret Police". ‘This misrepresentation was made at a
time when the Department of State was not authorized to have a polygraph
machine and Congressional legislation was pending at the time regarding
such authorization. As a result of this misrepresentation, Subject waa
afforded another security interview in March 1953. He explained that

his cover company solid equipment to foreign coutries through the Mutual
Aid Program and supplied consultant servicea to the State Department but
Subject denied that he ever represented himself as a State Department
polygraph operator. After the security interview Subject was also assessed
by an: “AgsBey) psychologiat (March 1953) and was found to be egotistical,
emotionally umstable, possessed of a need to build himself up in the

eyes of others and gave either exaggerated or completely erroneous
information aa to his past positions. Hie intelligence quotient was found
to be comparatively low in relation to those of other Agené}; employees.

  
 

In April 1953 tarmination of his employment was recommended.

Subject resigned 29 April 1953 “to accept a position in California.

. Washington climate is not egreeable to his family.”

In April 1964 Mr. J. Kirk BAREPOOE, Director of Security, McKesson
and Robbins, Skokie, Illinois, informed the Agency he had been a witness
toe unauthorized disclosures of classified information made by a group in
@ cocktail lounge in Onaha, Nebraska. The individual making the discloaures
sbout ENDOMORPH activities abroed under Agency sponsorship was identified
as Leonard HARRELSO. Subject, who was then Director of Public Safety
for the City of Omaha, Nebraska, was one of the group and it was believed
that he was responsible for supplying the clasaified information to HARRELSON
about ENDOMORPH activities.

Leonard HARRELSON ia a private investigator specializing in hypnotism
and the use of the polygraph machine. In 1964 he was employed by the Keeler
Polygraph Company in Chicage, Illinois. In 3954 HARRELSON was in partnership
with Lloyd B. FURR in a private detective agency known as the American a
Buresu of Inveatigation, Tower Building, Washington, D. C. Lloyd B, FURR s<< otle
is the polygraph operator who gave a lie detector test to Gordon NOVEL,
hostile witness subpoenaed by GARRISON. ‘The test received newspaper publicity
as being given at “MoLean, Va." in March 1967. (Swmmary on FURR attabhed).

HARRELSON is believed to be a person of poor morals. He was given
8 medical discharge from the Army as a psychoneurotic in 1949 end had been
court-martialed twice for impersonating non-commissioned officers of a
rank higher than he possessed. In his business partmership with FURR,
HARRELSON would misrepresent himself as being with the FBI by covering the
word “American” when presenting his credentials and just showing “Bureau
of Investigation".

Incidentally, the informant, J. Kirk BAREFOOT mentioned above, was

disapproved for Agency employment in 1951 because of falsification of his PHS,
end questionable maturity, judgment, discretion and honesty.

SCRE]
 

 

SECRET ( Loy

. —_— | “ . yr, —
- : Geel XAEW ICUS bUe / an
no eS eB 14 August 1968 a vf
\ Le
supper: GUGAS, Chris

 

Subject 1s identified as a California investigator who administered
a polygraph test to Edgar Eugene BRADLEY who has been charged with conspiracy
by GARRISON.

_. Swoject was born 12 August 1921 at Omaha, Nebraska. He is a former

: ney\employea who EOD in October 1949 as a GS-9 Intelligence Officer.
Subject resigned his staff status _in February 1951 and became a staff

agent with Project ENDOMORPH in from March 1951 until July 1952.

(His wife Anne Claudia GUGAS naé was granted a covert security clearance
in February 1952 for use in a clerical capacity in the Middle East.)

In his assignment with Project ENDOMORPH ola et was a
source of constant embarrassment in his contacts with police
officials. He was boastful, indiscreet, lacking in sound judgment, knew
little or nothing in the fields in which he was self-professedly an expert

and was guilty of security breaches in failing to maintain his cover.
In one incident he made recommendations of police reorganizations to be

  

 

 

 

 

 

made by province governors in whereas, in the Police

Department is a national organization and not subje the dictates of

the province governors. This caused much i]1 will and friction with the
police.

Subject professed to be an expert in his knowledge of the polygraph
machine and claimed he had two years' experience with the Los Angeles
Police Department prior te his employment with the ‘Agency. However, it
was developed that instead of this claimed experience, he had actually
spent one or two weeks in a detective school connected with the Los Angeles
Police Department where he received below average grades.

In October 1952 he approached an Agency employee regarding a new
type of technical equipment and this conversation led to the disclosure
by Subject that he was employed by the ‘Agency in a covert capacity; that
he was teaching lie detection techniques to foreign police departments
without being authorized or competent to do so. Subject was briefed in
December 1952 with stress placed on the importance of living up to his
security responsibilities and_exercising utmost precaution in protecting
the covert interests of the “Agency:

In spite of the etrong warnings given him in this interview, Subject
again became involved in an incident of official embarrassment to the Agency.

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201- O G34 §L2

 
    

 

i
aetematic
downgrading and
dgclassilication

 

DO NOT DESTROY

© QU -O834 B2A SEGRE

 
