13-00000 ;
~ OED UNCLASSIFIED ©) INTERNAL [1] CONFIDENTIAL iri SECRET
pS ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET - 7)

aw
+0

Cc~-

      
    

SUBJECT: (Optional)

 

2 July 1968

TO: {Officer designation, room number, and
building) . | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
. LS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

 

Ln

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

          

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

 

610 “ete2* EZ] secret [(] CONFIDENTIAL

oO (] UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

SECRET

1. Background. The "Watchlist of American Defectors and
Potential Defectors" was formerly referred to as the ''Listing of U.S.
Defectors.'' The title has been changed, however, to better describe
the listing, which was first undertaken in November 1964,. following the
assassination of the President. At that time no other component of the
U.S. Government maintained comprehensive listings of persons such
as Oswald, nor did any other component have a computer capability to
handle this sort of program. Moreover, this Agency, charged with
providing foreign counterintelligence in support of Presidential protec-
tion, itself required some means of rapid retrieval of names by coun-
try and area. Further authority for establishment of the listing
existed in NSCID No. 5, which charged this Agency with maintenance
of the central index of foreign counterintelligence.

2. Criteria. These listings are intended to serve as a central
special index for the counterintelligence and security elements of the
USG. They are an operational tool, and judgments as to whether a
name should be included have been made on the basis of possible
threat to the security of the United States and its senior officials.
Precise definitions have deliberately not been developed for defector
or U.S. citizen. In general, U.S. citizens and others owing some
measure of allegiance to the U.S. Government, who have evidenced
disloyalty or disaffection by defecting or deserting, or attempting or
threatening to defect or desert to a Sino-Soviet bloc country, have
been included in these listings. Any formal determination as to the
status of any of these persons can only be made by reference to the
basic files, which in most cases are held by other USG components.
Thus the information in the Watchlist has not been evaluated, and no
executive action should be taken without reference to the agency with
which the information originated. In fact, action of any sort should
be most circumspect, not only because of the unevaluated nature of
the data, but also to protect sources which in many instances are
sensitive.

3. Accountability. In view of the fact that these listings are
based on information from a variety of sources, many of them sensi~
tive, the security classification of SECRET must be observed. Access
to these listings must be on a strict need-to-know basis. The listings
have therefore been accountable documents, subject to recall. Many
recipients have already returned superseded editions. The other users
are requested to do so now, at least for the first through fourth editions.
If it is necessary to retain both the current edition and the most recently

. superseded edition, this is of course acceptable.

SECRET
 

104-40340-10011

oy
4

fo SECRET

 

26 June 1968

‘TO : : Director’
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Director
United States Secret Service

Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security
~' Department of State :

Director, Bureau of Intelligence and Research
Department of State

Chief, Counterintelligence and Security Office (DIACI)
Defense Intelligence Agency

- Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
Department of the Army

_ Director, Naval Investigative Service
Department of the Navy

Chief, Counterintelligence Division _
Directorate of Special Investigations -

The Inspector General, USAF

The Commissioner
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Director
National Security Agency

SUBJECT : Watchlist of American Defectors and Potential
Defectors

REFERENCE: CSCI-316/00042-68, 3 January 1968

SECRET
13-00000

—

SECRET

4. Current listings.

(a) The sixth edition of the Watchlist of American Defectors
and Potential Defectors was prepared on 14 June 1968, and super-
sedes the listings furnished under cover of referenced letter.

(b) The listings have been produced in three forms: (A)_
overall, with alphabetic index; (B) persons in the United States,
with alphabetic index; and (C) persons outside the United States,
with alphabetic index. Most components have been furnished
"A" listings, but IGNS, State, FBI, and Secret Service have also
been furnished copies of '"B" and "C". In response to a request
from one of the users to flag any information which was added _
since the previous dissemination, an asterisk (*) now appears
before the Arbitrary Number in the alphabetic index to indicate
either a new name or a name against which information has been
added. The T following a name in the index indicates that this
particular name is carried in the listing as the individual's true
name. .

(c) These listings should assist various components of this
Government in keeping track of U.S. citizens and others owing,
or who owed, some measure of allegiance to the United States,
who have evidenced disloyalty or disaffection by defecting or
deserting, or attempting or threatening to defect or desert toa
Sino-Soviet bloc country: It is again emphasized that these
listings are not based on precise evaluation of all available
information and comparison with detailed criteria. They reflect
an operational judgment that an individual might have endangered
or might some day endanger the security of the United States.
Certainly, no action should be taken against an individual solely
on the basis of this listing, but inclusion of a name in the listing
should alert users to the fact that derogatory information may
have been reported on the individual.

(d) Information contained in the attached listings has been
provided by a number of other U.S. Government components, as
wellas by this Agency. Thus the listings must be handled
strictly in accordance with the security classification of SECRET,
with access based on a.clear-tut need-to-know. This is particu-
larly important in cases where there has as yet been no overt act.
of defection (for the most part, persons appearing in the "B" list).

SECRET ©
13-00000

priate.

SECRET

(e) On certain of the subjects, there is further information
relating to their involvement in espionage for a Sino-Soviet bloc
service, In general, such information has deliberately been
omitted, having already been disseminated through normal

channels to the appropriate components.

Only in instances in

which the information has become public, usually in court, has
reference to eépionage activity been:included.

5. Special listings. It is not feasible for this Agency to provide

detailed information on all persons listed, in:part because much of

the information has been provided by other U.S. Government agencies,
and in part hecause most of it has already been disseminated as appro-
However, if any of the recipients has a requirement for a
special listing based on one of the elements of information included in
the attached listings, an effort will be made to satisfy the request.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

CSCI-316/02507-68

Distribution:

Addressees

Attachments:

FBI -A, 2B, 2C

Secret Service:- A, B, C
State/SY - A, B, C
State/INR - A, B, C

_ DIA - 2A
Army -A
Navy -A

Air Force -A
I&NS.-.A, B, C \
NSA - 24

4

SECRET

AMES ANGLETON
