.

 

tears

   

SECRE]?

(3) AMBLEAK-1 reported that VOLSKY lives with his in-laws,

' ‘his wife and child in Coral Gables, He is inordinately fond of his

child, a boy now twelve years of age, to the. point of obsession,
(4) AMBLEAK~1 also reported in July 1963.that VOLSKY had
d an intimate rele ship with a female gousin of AMBLEAK-~1

  
 
 

develope
+d) at aX)

  

 

 

 

, ‘ star.of ’ JMWAVE asset,
a4 f now lives. in Miami
; r ationship with VOLSKY although she is

also married with children, Neither she nor VOLSKY is aware that
_AMBLEAK-1 knows of their liaison, A4MBLEAK-1 had learned of this réeTa
tionship’ in the following manner: While VOLSKY was still in Cuba he
occasionally asked A~1 to try to get letters out for him b diplomati
pouch. to Miami and after A-1 arrived in the United States Martha BRI)
frequently asked him to send letters and packages in for her, One da
dissatisfied with the size of a box in which his cousin was sending a
sweater to a woman in Cuba, A-1 opened said box and found in the fold
of the sweater torrid love letter from his cousin to VOLSKY, A-1 .
decided to keep"huiet about his knowledge of the relationship and bot
VOLSKY and(BRITO)act in hi Here ence as though they hardly know one
another. On one occasion (BRITO brought up the topic of VOLSKY in a
conversation with A-1 and. warne him to be cautious in his dealings w
VOLSKY, When. A-1 attempted to get his cousin to explain her warning,
she refused, Stating that she felt AMBLEAK-1 should avoid developing
too close a relationship with him, A-1 felt that (Martha was merely tr
‘ing to smoke-s¢reen her relationship with VOLSKY. o6

: (5) At a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE case officer on
25 September 1963, VOLSKY remarked on the pressures and frustrations «
life today and Suggested that the best way to work off tensions was te
follow his lead which was to have frequent extramarital relations wit:
gir] friends. .The case officer felt that although this remark may ha
been meant to be facetious, he was inclined to believe the opposite a)
made it a matter of record for any possible future KUDESK investigatic
of Subject, : ,

b. USIA Employment

ve

   
  

~ a), When .VOLSKY arrived in the United States, he visited his
end and forme enta in he 5 Embassy n_Havena, ‘Pa BETH

who at that time was in charge of the Miami Office of the USIA. BETH
was sold on VOLSKY's presentation of himself as a counterrevolutionary
recently out of prison and an expert on the communist problem and inte
national affairs, BETHEL contracted him to edit. a VOA program which

was entitled "The Truth Behind the News", _JMWAVE traces on BETHEL shc
the following information: .

- |. ° .-~ (a).,In.1960 BETHEL who was Press Attache of the U. S.
Embassy in Cuba : a rmmant for the CASTRO Regime
“(WH/4/CI dated'23 September 1960). No confirmation of this was ever
developed.: . , ; . _

          
 

' (b) BETHEL was employed by JMWAVE for three months, Octob
through December 1961, as a writer-analyst for a detailed analysis of
the overt Cuban press, This employment took place shortly after BETHE
had left his job in USIA in a huff as he refused to accept a transfer

. an assessment by Headquarters in which it was determined that BETHEL's
reports contained nothing which was not already available through regu
established sources and therefore his high salary, $1,000.00 per month
was not justified, :

““ (2) When: BETHEL resigned his USIA post and began to. work for
KUBARK, William G.PRWAGLEY took over his position of Chief of the Miam

' Office.’ WAGLEY mdde. VOLSKY responsible for the weekly summary report

made to Washington USIA analyzing the Cuban situation, :
, (3) «It is believed that VOLSKY has a clearance only as a Pure

. Order Vendor for the USIA which does not clear him for any classified
74-0000

a

     

a >
~ SECRET.

; information, nor.is his status that of an officer of the U. S. Gover
yet he sat in on USIA meetings and had access to :classified material.
WAGLEY and VOLSKY had a close-relationship in their work and WAGLEY

: on openly reported VOLSKY as his right hand man to the Director of the

: 7 Voice of America (VOA),. Henry LOOMIS.

wt ete LS

: (4) . WAGLEY was transferred to the Washington Office in Augus
1962 at which time Conradf*MANLEY became Chief, VOLSKY continued in
duties.and in addition: p pared an additional copy of his weekly repc
for WAGLEY. which was sent directly to Washington for him, As of the
date of this report, MANELY remains in charge of the USIA office and
VOLSKY is still employed in the same status.

. Abe
a __. (5) -According to Tad SZULC, Major Manue]_ PINEIRO Losada aka
my Barba Roja,.. s
sy ; : : when he, PINEIRO, telephoned him ir
-. Miami during the 2)_and stated, in effect

that "Fidel CASTRO was angry as he felt the Russians had sold the Cut
down the river", a : ‘

7 (6) On 3 May 1963 Manolis féde la TORRE, radio announcer and
Voice of America newspaperman, reported that the employees of VOA con
‘sider’ VOLSKY‘as an individual with whom one must be careful as he is
Suspected of being a communist, —

 

5 _ (7) Gabriel ¥QUINTERO,- operator of the USIA radio equipment
J in Miami,. reported to AMTAUP-2 in August 1963 that on various occasio
he has surprised Jorge VOLSKY listening in on USIA telephone conversa
both incoming’ and outgoing. QUINTERO states that he doesn't know wha

reason motivates VOLSKY to do this,

% 4 ‘ .
- Pe CCS) AMTAUP-2 reporteg-that on 13 September 1963 he was in th
— \. USIA office when Mrs, Miriam -WAORWEB who is_an official in ODACID in
/" 1” Miami, arrived there, “A-2 was’ informed that Mrs, NORWEB is avery fre

nd has*long interviews with him and keeps hi

aduent visitor of VOLSKY a
constantly informed about ODACID affairs.

c. VOLSKY's use of USIA for JURE Purposes - The following incide
related here in chronological order, are reported to substantiate JMW
claims that VOLSKY has used his USIA position for JURE political obje
and in fact might be the power which directly or indirectly determine
these objectives. oo,

 

- (1) (General) Among VOLSKY's Cuban contacts is Raul /*CHIBAS
Bivas..,201-248160, a member of the executive committee of JURE, liste
as Manolo RAY's right-hand man. This contact originated.through the
close friendship of YOLSKY's wife with the divorced wife of CHIBAS ‘an.
a8 a result, VOLSKY:became closely connected with Manolo's group. Ac.
cording to JMWAVE. traces, CHIBAS the former director of the Havana
Military Academy and : i defect
‘wiR_1960, He gave a three hour interview to Tad SZULC in Havana who
reported him completely disillusioned with the Cuban Regime. However
CHIBAS had a definite record of Communist Party participation and_was

Suspected by ODENVY of being a CASTRO plant in the United States.
DBA 56037). / :

(2) | JURE Infiltration of KUBARK —

. : .(a) When VOLSKY was first in contact with JMWAVE concern:
the details of his operation, March 1963, he made a particular point c
mentioning: that he personally was convinced that none of the operatior
team participants’ was presently controlled by any political group. Ai
‘the same time, he was aware that AMICE~27 was closely connected with ‘
and was reporting to him (VOLSKY). Also at that time he himself was
_ frequently being visited in his USIA office by Rogelio CISNEROS Diaz,
member of-the executive board of JURE,

: : (b) ‘AMTAUP-2 reported on 30 April 1963 that CISNEROS, at
_@ meeting -held in his home, said that Manolo RAY Rivero, National Chie

SECRET
 

. ws wo ny , | a aan
ve SECRET 7

: pressure, diverted a case which might otherwise have been presented to
SZULC, and obviated a situation whicn might otherwise have been diffi-
cult and embarrassing for KUBARK,

- Be NOLSKY and SZULC were in very frequent contact with each other |
during the JMWAVE Sponsorship of the VOLSKY plan,, This fact was
ascertained through VOLSKY's comments to a JMWAVE case officer in
which he often referred to recent activities of SZULC and through the
reactions. of SZULC and VOLSKY when any decisions concerning the opera-~
tion made by Headquarters or JMWAVE were relayed to one member of this
partnership without the knowledge of the other. Decisions concerning

‘the operation handed out by Headquarters and JMWAVE ‘had to be given
simultaneously to SZULC and VOLSKY in order-te—eveid misunderstandings- -—
which would arise when one would immediately inform the other of same,

  

‘he It is mere speculation to guess whether there is more to this
relationship than that mentioned in paragraph 6.e, above, It is
-interesting to note, however, that on 6 January 1964 in a conversation
between AMICE-14 and a JMWAVE case officer concerning language abilities.

‘the language,. This fact does not agree with VOLSKY's earlier statement
o_ COs MWAVE ai he preferred speak in P sh because he had

not used the language for a long time, It seems strange that VOLSKY

‘would refuse to speak his native tongue with COS unless he were. afraid

  

‘i. On 20 February 1964, Chief of Station, JMWAVE, had luncheon
with Conrad MANLEY, Chief of the Miami Office of USIA, During this
luncheon, in a discussion of VOLSKY, MANLEY stated that he was aware
that VOLSKY was the unofficial stringer for SZULC of the Times and
that his superior in Washington had recently brought this relationship
to his attention, asking MANLEY to discourage it, The reason for this
was that several newspaper personnel in the Washington area had com-
plained to USIA about the preferential treatment afforded SZULC by his
relationship with VOLSKY,.

j. The most recent information indicating that the. SZULC/VOLSKY
relationship continues is a letter written on 23 February by Theodore
APER, well known author and political analyst, to Miss Phyllis FREEMAN
of the Frederick A, Praeger Publishing Company, (Reference B).. In this
letter. DRAPER recommends that VOLSKY be chosen as the author of a book
to be written on Cuba and set up an appointment for him. to meet FREEMAN
while he was in New York. Reference B also includes a memorandum in
which FREEMAN ,reported that VOLSKY was highly recommended for this “job
by both Theodore ,DRAPER and Tad SZULC who rely on him for much of their
day to day information on Cuba. She stated that Ss "is now a
"'stringer' the Washi ureau_of The Times, which is evidently
a special SZULC-engineered deal", AMCARBON-1 reported on 24 May 1964
: anee VOLSRY receives $100 a week for his work as a stringer. In regard
to VOLSKY's forthcoming book, he has mentioned to AMBLEAK-1 that he
expects to have it published in September 1964 under the title of Cuba
Today. (Note: In reference B, Phyllis FREEMAN has indicated that
claims that he was educated in England and that he had gone to
Cuba in 1945, a decidedly different version of his background, )

_6, VOLSKY's Knowledge of the Cuban Exile Community
a. VOLSKY Refugee Status and Personal Life in Miami

(1) In a recent conversation with AMLAME-1 VOLSKY stated that
he had become an American citizen. : o .

sO (2) A check of Immigration and Naturalization Service records
in Miami shows that VOLSKY is not a citizen of the United States as he
claims, but became a permanent resident on 5 February 1963, and that

- VOLSKY's wife, Mercedes ROVIRA, had petitioned for this status for him,

SECRET.

-7-

 

ferecpenteanonin +

perenne
 

’ te . . . . + r “
fo ~ SECRET
, | Cuban Invasion ~- The Chronicle of a Disaster is particularly criti

° not limiting itseé a discussion™o S$ failure at Pla
Giron, but dealing in detail with many other aspects of KUBARK,

oJ

   

‘.b, As mentioned in paragraph 2.a., Tad SZULC presented to ODACI
an operational plan based on VOLSKY's ideas which was subsequently
turned over to. KUBARK, 5ZULC was contacted by KUBARK on 6 February
1963 concerning this plan and gave the following information concern

the background of his relationship with VOLSKY, whom he reported as
author, : : :

; (1) VOLSKY has-been a friend of his for the past three year
and he (SZULC) considers him'one of the most informed exiles on Cuba:
internal affairs and stated that he was, in fact, his contact for mo
of ‘his. important ‘information emanating from inside Cuba, He referred
VOLSKY as "our man in Havana" even though he was living in Miami.

‘is AMSTRUT-2;.a lifelong friend of VOLSKY's sister-in-law (unidentif:
who furnishes what SZULC considers vital information by means of this

c. In August 1962 SZULC had arranged an interview in Washington
for VOLSKY with Richard N. GOODWIN, advisor to former President RENN
° t .

- = d, In late October 1962 AMBLEAK-1 had reported that VOLSKY calle
upon him to assist him in rounding up recently arrived refugees who
had. seen Soviet missiles and troops in Cuba. It was VOLSKY's purpose
to have AMBLEAK-1 serve as interpreter for interviews of the refugees
by correspondent Tad SZULC. -

e. Tad SZULC reported that he had a Standing invitation extended
~Since. November 1961 to contact directly President ennedy, Vice Presi
Johnson, or McGeorge Bundy at any time on Cuban matters, S_ opinion
obviously carried weight with the Agministration and therefore, his
backing of VOLSKY's pean to the point where he Sat in on ODACID/KUBA
meetings concerning 1 was probably the primary reason it was poppe
SO quickly. Thus, VOUSKY and SZULC maintained a mutua y pro able

—FeTHtIonskip, VOLSKY by providing SZULC with up-to-date information
obtained through his USIA position and through his contacts in the ex
community, and, SZULC, by exerting pressure on KUBARK by means of his

"in" with the former Administration and his newspaper audience to pro:
VOLSKY's ideas, , “|

-f. As SZULC could exert his influence and indirectly pressure KU
‘into adopting dn operation, so could he apply pressure through his me:
-to run certain details pertaining to it, The following example shows
the position KUBARK was maneuvered into by these influences. One of
the principals of the Subject operation, AMICE-27, whom KUBARK wished
to remove from said operation because of his indiscretion and inabili-
to accept control, but who was an informant on all aspects of the ope:
ation for VOLSKY and SZULC, had to be handled with kid gloves and
offered a juicy alternative position in an effort to appease him as ii
was felt that he would take his case to SZULC. The time picked by KUE
_to disengage AMICE-27 was one when SZULC was on an extended Latin Ame:
trip. AMICE~27 refused the substitute position, delivered an ultimatt
which was not accepted by KOBARK, and, as expected, was reported by a
teammate to be threatening to take his case to the highest authority
‘through the VOLSKY/SZULC channel,. It was JMWAVE's feeling that AMICE-
understood power and politics to the extent that once he became aware

. dismissal of AMICE-27 and, at the same time, temporarily cut off from
his. powerful Washington channel, However, this treatment released the

‘SECRET
74-0000

    

od

SECRET

i. (b). Subject, AJBUSZYC, took the name of VOLSKY from the
. dead pilot for personal reasons. 7 Q

 

; (c). Subject isa communist agent who assumed one or both
of the subject names either In an effort to erase a derogatory back-
ground or, more likely, to assume a new identity and attempt to con-

“fuse the issue,

- (2) Still in ‘connection with Subject's true name, VOLSKY
deliberately withheld information when he made out his PRQ for
. JMWAVE in March 1963. The PRQ specifically calls for "name at birth
if different from Item 1" (Item Ik being Subject's full name).
VOLSKY marked the item as not applicable.

sO (3). “The slight discrepancy in education listed in paragraph
3 b should be checked: into. Se .

fe “ be . :
we Dts M ;
yw ale? (4) On 8 February 1963 He quarters reported Jorge VOLSKY as
ad probably identical with one Joseph¥#SKULICZ "although this still

questionable", (DIR 16243 dated 8 ruary 1963). There are no
‘Station traces on SKULICZ and further mention of this tentative
identification was never made by Headquarters,

: (5) Still to be explained by VOLSKY are the circumstances
surrounding. his imprisonment in Russia and his joining the Polish
'‘Army Service there at a time when Soviet intelligence was attempting

to subvert those recruits... : ' .

4, Background in Cuba Prior to U.S.

a. Family - ; ; ;
- (1) VOLSKY reports in his PRQ that on 7 August 1948 in
. Havana he married his present wife, Mercedes ROVIRA Bertran.
Immigration and Naturalization Service (I&NS) in Miami has a copy of -
this marriage certificate on file which confirms the Marriage date
given above d gives the following. information: .

; ; .@ The full name of VOLSKY's wife is Mercedes
Antonia Juan: OVIRA Bertran, daughter of Jose ROVIRA and Mercedes
BERTRAN, natives of Spain. . .

(b) VOLSKY is listed as Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY, son of

Jose and Maria,. natives of Poland.

; {c) From 1937 to 1938 Mercedes was listed as a student
in Santiago de Cuba and from 1938 to 1961 as a housewife in Havana‘

° ‘(2) -The fact’ that Mercedes ROVIRA says she was a housewife
*.in Havana from 1938 to 1961 does not coincide with the story told
- above to the effect that during the war years she was the single
daughter of Jose ROVIRA in Santiago de Cuba, engaged to Jorge VOLSKY.
It is possible that she mistakenly put the year 1938 instead of
1948 on her record. However, that: leaves ten years of her life

unaccounted for in the Immigration records.
b. Business

(1) Jorge VOLSKY reported in his PRQ that he directed and
owned his own business in Cuba from November 1947 to May 1961 when
.. he left for the United States. This business, whichhe described as
a publicity office was named Dekora Studio S.A., P. Gomez 283, Habana,
‘and was subsequently confiscated by the CASTRO Government. VOLSKY
also told AMLAME-1 that in addition to his publicity business in Cuba,
_ he had rendered services to the Information Service of the United
States Embassy in Habana. The following reports-on VOLSKY's business
- were obtained: ; -

(a) AMOT-119 described VOLSKY's business, DEKORA, as a

SECRET
14-00000

ee SEORET
|

“J

     

is publicity business which engaged mainly in the production and
decoration.of floats for carnivals. ‘He stated that the ROVIRA family
helped him financially to set-up this business. - ;

: . Cb) - Mrs. QUESADA reported that the ROVIRA family was
vd _ very wealthy as they were the proprietors in Cuba of the CASTILLO RUM
: ‘and CINEMA REX enterprises, among others, and that Mr. ROVIRA put
VOLSKY to work in a. decorating firm which he owned.

oe “+ Ce) aureliano fMsBRETON, formerly in the advertising
: - , billboard business in Cuba, reports that when Studio Dekora was
: nationalized VOLSKY was working on a large advertising plan for
Central America ordered by the Coca Cola bottling plant in Cuba.

: c., Contacts’ and Travel -

+ (1). VOLSKY traveled frequently while in Cuba and amassed an
.extremely large. number of influential contacts. He was a member of
the Havana Biltmore Yacht and Country Club and predominately
mingled with the upper class professional industrialists and ~
particularly cultivated ‘the friendship of American journalists. JS

— ¢€2) ‘According. to his PRQ, VOLSKY traveled to Europe in 1957
on a pleasure trip at his own expense and also had traveled to the
United States many times during the years he lived in Cuba, He also

oy listed frequent travel to Jamaica.

“4 - d. Politics

 

. 2: |" (1) During the period before his business was nationalized,
' VOLSKY is deseritbed as a socialist, who had publicly said that the
' future of the world is socialistic.. d ro-CASTRO and
wv had often denounced the United States for putting up with the BATISTA
oe Government in Cuba which was riddled with graft, (AMOT-119 Report
AA-774/17, September 1962) ,

(2) According to Tad SZULC, see Paragraph 5 below, VOLSKY
became disenchanted with the Regime when his business was intervened
and he spent the latter part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively
supporting anti-CASTRO activities. SZULC amplified this remark by
stating he knew of instances of VOLSKY's transporting explosives and
hand and shoulder weapons in his private car.

(3) VOLSKY was arrested and imprisoned in La C
6 luring the Invasion roundup, an event he has

made much of ever since and has used to establish counterrevolutionary
bona fides. “AMBLEAK-1, who was imprisoned during the same period, °
Stated-that VOLSKY was held for a short time, a matter of weeks, and
probably: had been included in this roundup because he was a known

“MRP. member, foreigner, or member. of the middle class. According: to
-Tad SZULC, VOLSKY was able to leave Cuba shortly thereafter as he had
a valid U.S. visa in his passport. YOLSKY arrived in Miami on.

22 May 1961... : .

5. JMWAVE Knowledge of VOLSKY Relationship with Tad SZULC

. a. On 17 September 1962 AMOT-119 presented a report to KUBARK
which contained information to the effect that LSKY had influence

: the American press il e_ New Yor
Times and the Washington Post, This aniiuence was derived from
Sub, 's.cu! tion in Cuba of American journalists rticular

g/*SZULC, currently employed as a correspondent for he Washington.
‘Bureau of the New York Times. A close relationship exists between
SZULC in Washington and VOLSKY Th Miami and they are in touch ‘
periodically by bo elephone and pérsona its. isa
' source of.information for SZULC and evidently influences his thinking
as is manifested by the transfer of VOLSKY's political philosophy
‘into the principal thesis of a book on Cuba written by SZULC: namely
. that Cuba -should not be attacked ‘by the United States and that the
Cuban problem can be solved internally. This book entitled, The

SECRET
 

i
i
i
|
|
‘
i

 

; .

 

ea eee
Peon ae

     

“

"SECRET

Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-17410

 

‘1, Introduction

dorge VOLSKY is a Cuban citizen of Polish eae ie now a permanent
U.S. resident, who is currently employed by the TA office in Miami
as editor of the USIA Weekly Report on Cuban Developments. VOLSKY
came to the attention. of JMWAVE because of his extra-curricular
activities which appear to be incompatible with his position as an

employee of the U.S.-Government. A conflict of interests appears to
have developed in VOLSKY's case as a result of his position in the

USIA office in Miami, his access to various high-level Cuban refu ees,
his close association with prominent American journalists Cone of. j

‘Whom had an entree to high members of the Kennedy Administration pie
‘and his involvement in propaganda activities for both the JURE a sy
the counterrevolutionar . Analysis shows that he has used °*

.his iA position to obtain information for a leftist political
group, has engaged in anti-US propaganda campaigns for it, and may
_be guilty of duplicity in his dealings with KUBARK. VOLSKY is a
* Cuban citizen of Polish origin whose background includes a .twoorn
bree year period in a Russian prison camp Because of this back-
_ ground and the nature of his present political activities, the
following compilation and analysis of the material currently avail-—
able to JMWAVE concerning VOLSKY are deemed necessary and are hereby
presented as a prerequisite to the determination of the future :
course of action to be taken by KUBARK in this case.

  

ore od

2. Original JMWA VE Operational Interest in Subject

, a. Jorge VOLSKY first became of interest to KUBARK in Eebruary
4263 when it was learned that he was the Source of an anti-CASTRO
plan known as Operational Leonardo designed to sp e Cuban
Regime by the recruitment of certain elements of the Rebel Army and
. Militia in the GOC, n had been presented to ODACID through

Tad SZULC, editorial writer of the New York Times Washington Office,
and ODACID sent it for action to KUBARK Headquarters.

b. The disclosure of Jorge VOLSKY as the originator of Operation
Leonardo came about when a KUBARK case officer contacted SZULC at
his home in Washington concerning the plan. SZULC was reluctant at
first. to reveal the name of the author but did so when the case
officer pointed out that it was necessary for KUBARK to talk to the
source in order to clear up various. points. SZULC, stating that he
would rely on KUBARK's discretion to safeguard the identity of his

“source, ndmed Jorge VOLSKY of the USIA in Miami. SZULC related a
«Short biographic sketch of VOLSKY in which it was revealed that

_ during World War II, VOLSKY, a Pole, had been a prisoner of war in
Russia. '

ce. At Headquarters' request JMWAVE contacted Jorge VOLSKY and
made arrangements to sponsor his plan which involved Cuban infil-
tration/exfiltration ops. It was the intention of KUBARK to use
VOLSKY only as a funding channel for the operation; however, because
of the Station's belief that the operation's team would inform
VOLSKY in detail about operational matters, a POA was requested on

‘him. A request was also made that Headquarters check on VOLSKY's
activities prior to his arrival. in Cuba. ‘Locally the AMOTs were
requested to provide information on Subject's activities in Cuba.

3. Polish Background Prior to Cuba

. Using the information subsequently made available to the Station
by Subject in his PRQ Part I, submitted to JMWAVE March 1963 and the
‘Headquarters trace reply (Reference A) which includes information
contained in Royal Air Force and Polish exile records in London and
information on Subject recently solicited from various JMWAVE assets,

oy : a AWN. Fo 19 Tah bm
CO copsse52 . SECRET on Amey iwk—{
  
 

 

   
  

iat nelOibibni neon os etry canton aren einen
ee Se

DISPATCH”

af —+——— 4 + S
3 Chief of Station, JMWAVE tr AVE
| i TRUNK ES onal. |

‘ References:. A, UFGW-2601, 16 October 1963

 

B, UFGW-3377, 16 March. 1964

._°  1.: Forwarded as a separate attachment is a review of Subject
case which sets forth the extra curricular activities of Subject,
which appear to be incompatible with his position as an OBYOKE

. employee, : , . ;

. 2. Subject case leads to no definite conclusions regarding
any RIS affiliation, though we feel that Subject continues to

ear watching in this “connection, There does, however, appear
to be some evidence that Subject ma i

te
a
g
.
ct
ne
o.
B
}
2)
5.
»
Q
o
ef
@
ry
.
ped
B
a
Me
fam
a
pr
e
in
os
@
fia)
eg
'g
a
°
@
a
a
os
8
fii]
ea
fa
5
8
p
¢
°
fo]

   
  
     

the COS, JMWAVE.- Under such circumstances, Headquarters may wish
- to bring certain portions of the attachment to the attention of
. QKFLOWAGE for appropriate action, a

yy ‘ -
fa ANDREW K, REUTEMAN

_ Attachment: 1 a
: Under Separa Cover

SCA att-/, Ot “

Distbibution: os copy ;
awe YSA w/att. USC DATE DISPATCHED s .
20 Aug 1964] AUG 24 iS4
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-17410
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

ain; ray
cae we, ON aw, . .
- feo liney Me. oe ee ee
# 201-352252

     
 

 
 

  

  
  

CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

  

ee ee we ee me

 

a cous
  

SECRET

the following is an account and analysis of Subject's life up to his
entrance into Cuba in November 1947.- :
J .

: «

a. In his PRQ Part I Subject lists his full name as Jorge
Stakistaw Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, born 8 March 1921 in Warsaw,
Poland. He lists his parents as Josef A. VOLSKY Zascycki, an
“engineer, and Maria KRAISLER Madeirka, a medical doctor, both

. deceased. : ;

 

b. (Education) VOLSKY's PRQ states that his education consists
of high school attended in Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and one year of
medical school at a University in Krakow.

- . (1) | USIA. records (information supplied by Subject) agree

ae with the above, showing that he attended the St. Anna Lyceum in

“ . Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and the Jagiellon University in Krakow from

1938 to 1939, ' ,

oo (2) The Headquarters trace reply which included a-London
Station check of the Royal Air Force and Polish exile World War II
‘records, however, did not mention his attendance at the Jagiellon.
Lori . University, stating only that Subject matriculated in 1939 in the ;
"St, Staszic Humanistic College in Chrzanow. (WAVE comment: Chrzanow
ae is West Krakow, 27 miles WNW of Krakow.)

 

c. World War “Il Service

(1) _ VOLSKY claims in his PRQ that during the years 1939...

! : Serial number
705740, rank: Officer - Cadet, Private Flight Sergeant. Ina
different section of the PRQ he also states that he was a Prisoner
of -war in Russia (1939 to 1941). This is an obvious contradiction
within the PRQ itself that requires clarification. -

. (2) The RAF and Polish exile check (Reference A) mentioned
above confirmed service in the Royal Air Force for a person with the
name of Jerzy Stanislaw AJBUSZYC (the first three names of Subject)
DOB: 8 March 1921, Serial number 705740 with rank: Leading Air-
craftman Radio Telephone Operator. This record which is obviously
that of Subject showed that on 19 June 1942, while in the USSR, he
enrolled in the Polish Army Service where he served for one year
until 30 June 1943 and then enlisted in the Polish Air Force Service

- under the British Operational Command on 1 July 1943 and served until

27 July 1947 when he was discharged at his own request’ and emigrated
to Ecuador. The Polish exile representative further noted in
Reference A that in 1942 the Soviets had attempted to subvert some
of the young Poles who were recruited at that time in the USSR’ for

-Polish Army Service and that such might have been the case with ;

, Subject... we .

; (3) (JMWAVE Analysis) It is interesting to note that
Subject's PRQ and USIA records which stated he was in the RAF from
1939 to'1947 do not agree with his official RAF records which show
that he did not enroll in the RAF until 1 July 1943. The RAF records
also show that he had enrolled one year earlier (19 June 1942) in
the Polish Army Service in the USSR and served in it for a full year
before joining the RAF. However, even allowing the year 1942 as his
service induction date into the RAF, there is a discrepancy in what

. he reports in his PRQ (1939) and what the RAF record shows (1942).

‘ It is possible that he has. falsely reported the date of his induction
into the RAF in his PRQ in order to cover up his activities during
that period (1939-1942). This was a period of time when great number

' of Polish prisoners of war were shot by the Soviets. It _is possible.

that Subject Bay have been subjected to RIS recruitment attempts
_ Guring this period. °

d. (Name Change) In the referenced RAF and Polish exile check,
it was noted that the Polish exile liaison representative, while
searching: the record for a Jorge VOLSKY, had found a record for one

~ SECRET
   

SECRE\?

a Jerzy VOLSKY (i.e. Jorge VOLSKY) who was born in 1917 and killed in

action in 1941 and Speculated that Subject might ‘have assumed the name
of this mant | :
cuneate .

. (1) In Reference A, Headquarters stated it had made an exhaust
analysis of the allegation that Subject might have taken the name of tl
‘Jerzy VOLSKY killed in action but found no indication that would justii
that conclusion, In an effort to determine why Stibject's name was car-
vied on the RAF rolls as AJBUSZYC instead of VOLSKY, it was surmised by
Headquarters that it was "understandable" because of the length of
Subject's name, In this regard, it was noted by Headquarters that
Subject had listed his full name in his PRQ Part I as Jorge Stakistaw
Ajbuszye VOLSKY Kraisler, . ‘ .

 

“sos. (2). In analyzing the above interpretation by Headquarters,
JMWAVE felt that if the RAF were. to shorten Subject's name on their
records for brevity's sake, they would have been more likely to omit a
Second or third name rather than his family name of VOLSKY. An investi
gation wag initiated by JMWAVE in March 1964 to attempt to clear up the

Deedee be

 
   

 

SNATA Azcue, former
blic of Cuba, and had the

Rotary Club it was decided to ask members of the Club who had single
daughters to act as pen pals for officers fighting with the Allied
armies in Europe. Mr, Jose ROVIRA presented the names of his three
Single daughters, Only one of these daughters maintained this corre-
spondence (with two officers), one of whom was Subject, a pilot aviator
in the RAF, - . :

-__(b) According to Mrs. QUESADA, Subject's father died in
the Second World War and Jorge had joined the RAF, She stated that as
far as she could remember, VOLSKY was born in Warsaw, Poland and that
aa the name VOLSKY was that of his mother or of a grandmother and that
> i his true name began with "A" and continued, she believed, with a "w"

 

  
 

    

           

: and a "zg",
4 (c) At the end of World War II, VOLSKY, then in London,
+ . H pen. pa Senorita Me edes Ro RA BF he Srenire Mpapeds
As it was not possible for VOLSKY t obtain a visa for Cuba, he obtaine<

one for Ecuador and arranged to stop over in Cuba in transit,

- ’ .:~ (d)..Upon VOLSKY's arrival in Cuba, Source's husband, Mr,
David MASNATA, by virtue of his connection in the Cuban Ministry of
State, was able to arrange permission for VOLSKY to remain in Cuba,
‘Within a year of his residence in Cuba, he married Miss ROVIRA and
because of the fact that his name was virtually unpronounceable, he -

decided ‘to adopt the name of VOLSKY legally, stating that this was the
name of his mother or o a gran ther, .
e. Station JMWAVE analysis of Subject's background prior to his

arrival in Cuba is inconclusive. The following points, however, are
worthy of further investigation;

(1) The fact that the s =
uned by Subject does not totally clear him of suspicion in this
respect. It becomes evident that YOLSKY fabricated a.name for his
‘father, that of Josef A. VOLSKY, which would fit his own new name, If
it is assumed that VOLSKY is not the real name of Subject's father,
three possible solutions to this’ puzzle emerge:

(a) ‘VOLSKY is the name of a grandmother as Subject claims

' and Subject attributed it to his father to avoid lengthy explanations
-on forms, - ‘ .

 
