ya-oou09 8
\

 
 

   
   
 

 

 

NO ten a ee nee Th men een mate a tend
CONTINUATION OF
OIsPATCH”

et ee pe ee ee een ee ee oe

Oe accther ecesaion Cclud aaid he would wery euch Jiie to cerresrim’
wits Gilys sat that 24 did met lock too gerd for Ale ag a Eoviet Mploeat to
be writing te an deerican sluuent sbrocd, %: otsated that he wruld therelere
gerd all cf Bde letters through the ciplosatic neuch to her, He tol’ her
taat when she wrets to Ala abe abould give ber letiors to Yladisiroy who
wemiad fa tore femoourd thee cs ts Gel ad. ¥5 reanaded that ghe wag rot 4
geet correspondent art thet ehe eculd net undertand why Goiwh e-ald act eso
the ooen walle, !lec, abe told Ala sha obfeeted tc giving perecnal letters
Qo semecns like Tiadiairow as ake wes act accustcayd to heving bor letters
eezscred, Golut resronded that he could guarantee her that ro one would opes
Ber lettera. The aatter wag droppuc.

4 Siege writing car last dispetch on Gi, 5 and delub, their or rena: Quhty
reusiped unchanged, There vas stil] no suspicion ar preasure placed oaaiy's
ty Geluh, Their situation hes renained tig as eordial, and nct omce hag
Golcd gads any retantie overtures, bhat. Pasys-Tadiattoy eontast rill
develop ints fa too early tco toll, but(A/S took an tumediate dialike to
the latter mad has so deaire to continue the seotings as frequestly se with
Golud. a will keep you inforsaed on the progress aed realise the algaificanss
e? gach a contact in relation to the proposed return trip.

  

Willian L, Coatille

(ays has just ecntacted us with sone added information concerning the
trip to Vladivostok, On her last meeting with Golub she again brought ap
‘the trip and told hie she vas sorry he was leaving at this particular tine
‘as she might need his help in getting the necessary visa, Golnud teld ber
oe should not worry about this because he had given her name, along vith

ther people's names, to the new Soviet Coneul, Ivan Sergeyev

{4~\ t 420), with instructions that if and when they applied for Soviet

wissa yy could be approved iecediately, “Besides,” he added, "I will
be on the Finnish deak in Moscow and responsible for the final approval of
vies requesta sent froe the Soviet Labasay in Helsinki.” He also said that
be thought ahe woulc have no difficulty in getting approval to go to
Viadivoatck where she could get airplane connections to Peking, (This gooe
along vith an earlier comment cade by Vikter Zegel that he believed
Viadivostok vould be socn nade an open city.) ;

 

    
   
  
 

104-10472-10283)_

tr

 

 

 

a eae

  

 

Cpt te ee eee ee oe ae . ee “y
DISPATCH ©. °. (crus) 4359
., te Le wee Fe 22. .

° chlef, SR ;
~ z0 1251901
chief, of . .
, Chief of nuatta : 1 rareh 1960
- Baer of 5 SLI bee . wd
en CAGES ee RETURN TO CIA
Consent par Pasa] bolow ‘Background Use Only _

* Do Nat Reproduce

: 27
(Erajezzs, 1 Deceader 1959

fa)

1, By Para 3 of hatencace wo stated that we.did not plan to push for 4
peocad ReL1E trip for(i yasins uniess pose wnique opsretiona] oopcrtunity
Preseatg itself, Sow, thera 1a a poesidility that thie situation esy core
about? af has continued to express ber interest to Grigerly GCil3 > ia
travelling across the US52 to Viadivcetck on the frans-Siberian Mallroad,
then through Chinas stepping at Peking and Shanghai, and on to Hong Lang.
Golub has been ia favor of such a trip and has stated that it largely depended
on her obtaining @ Chiness vies, On the enniversary of the signing of the
Bino-Soviet Fricndship Treaty she paid 4 eall to the Chiesse Consulate. Me
told thea cf her plans fm Pionigsh, ang they replied that such a trip ue
quite possible asd that arrangeamts could be wade through Lomasatha Oy, .
the local communist travel buresn, Sho then explained her eituation in
Rejaioki ag a Pulbkright steadent, The Consul very politely told har that then
ahs cust understand that there say bs sone difficulty in ber obtaigiag the
visa ag an American bat thst be would be willing to requeet permission,

He alee stated thet she sust enderstend that their two countrics had no
official relations and thst she must alee request peraission fres ber caro
ocuntry, She ansvered thst she realised all thie bat Ciret wea jost interested
in the possibilities of such a trip, ‘After leaving the Consulate, abe phoned
Golud to tell Aim where abe bed bees and that since aha knew the Soviote end
Chinese would be calebrating om that particalar evening that sho would be
iaterested in haaring any cowsents the Chinese Coneul sight pags ca te dalud.
OUGalub phoned (45/5 tho soxt morning and told her that the topic did coms up
and that he had teld the Chinese Congal that (11/5 ’fiad lao been te the Soviet
Consulate inquiring a to the possibilities of travelling acroas the Trans-
Siberian Hailvay, Galub stated that be told the Chinese Consul that he
otinew(t § persosally oad thought such a trip a good idea. The Chineen Cenenl
reapoaded thet there uight be a good chance for her to got the viss and that
he dowbted if a ferale stadent ecild do meh hare in China, Loasaatha Oy
CLtald(sayS that they could arrange such a trip as long as the viea vas in order,
We realise the legal and international difficulties froa our side ip re=
questing such a trip but would atill usder tha cireusstances like to have a
Headquarters reading on the altuation, we doubt if thie faa reute travelled
- wery nuch and a pare observation mission aight be definitely worth our while.
OrBinee (A775 has recalved en extension of ber Fulbright grant until gpring,
she eould sake euch a trip the epd of tay, én carly reply vould be appreciated,

o2
2, Prior te Gelub's departure ) fer Holaiokt be tola(hays
that 1f she agreed be would like to Introduce her to what bg teraed the senior
polities] offieer in the Soviot sadexay, Viktor VLASInIRCY (listed sa 2nd
Secretary on the Gip. Liat), Oolub explained that aince he would be leaving
Yinland, be would like her to acet whoa be considered to be the “west
intelligent officer in the et bebasay” and who vould enjoy carrying on
the ecnvergaticnal eveningsd< {1175 oid that she had no objections an long
as it did not interfere with ber schoal wrk, A few days ago GOLUS arranged
loncheon for the three of them at the Kestikartano Seataurant im Hclsinki,
or (syste initial {spreesion af Vlotimirov waa that bo was eold, beainesalihe,
direct, and oot a parson with whos it would be eaay te beeoae friends, Se
aeked hor sany questions abcut her school vert end hor echolarship to Pialand,
Pricr to Isaving Yladletrev atatod that ha vould like to ges her om 4 Mareb,
OULDs rescomied that she eculd not smux ake any placa that far in advance ove
te the heavy Isad of Aer research prejeet, laciazirow replied that thea ho

would eal] her detyoor C730 and O00 "arch 4 te peo If sha wuld be ree that
evening. (eps gaid ahe coala not pruiee but would sew,
ol :

 
