 

K

ee ne)

erATO! TMA AG ERE

  
   
  

CLASSIFICATION ae

TOP. “SECRET

   
 
 
 

  
 
 

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

   

accountings for travel and operational funds, we-do not wish to hold him to a rigid
accounting for every cent (for one reason, this would entail his making detailed ~~
fianncial nctes as he moves about, in’ itself & potential breach of security). - te will |
suffice if he provides you with whatever supporting documents are normally avall-
able to him (euch as hotel dills), if be gives you @ general accounting for the usé

of funds, and if you are satisfied that the funds were eed properly. Our experi+
ences with him so far have provided uo indications of rivase of fants. =

     
       
        
   

discassion with QIWIN on 2 May, be raised two problems
eat of his move to Leopoldville: .

-_. & During the
___4n the event of postpod

   
   
 

   

   
 

   

me When idéd-ta move him, he would appreciate ed :

” the-move, Af possible, 8 children to complete their then cur! chook

-ternn im, Laixernbourg aad ta register for the next following term in Leopot a
. “Please inform Him that this desire will be giveo the fullest possible consideration.’

   

 

         

  

   

; b. he is to remain in Barope for any length of time ag our behest,
‘as he now will per reference, he should move out of Luxembourg with his fazily.
As he corréctly pointed out, he has no cover job, now hao a good salary, is known
to the Gendarmerie in Luxembourg, and he foresees difficulty in explaising his
work, source of income, declaration of income tax, etc. We agree with his view-
_poiat, and this problem is under active consideration. He cannot, of course, movel
to Belgium with a sentence hanging ‘over hie head there. We are reluctant to move
‘ him-to France since he was once convicted there, and application for a residence
permit would result in a police flles check with possible reeultant and uedesirable’
police attention tohim. Furthermore, since a good deal of his search activity hag
taken place and will take place in France, we far prefer to have him reside slse-
where. Switzerland might be a possibility (except for tight police cortrols), bat
Germany appears to be a better possibility. If QJWIN docs move to Leopoldville
at the end of this year, he can probably survive the period in Luxembourg. Hf the
move is te be postponed beyond the end of this year - and we shall ret you lmow as
soon as this ty decided - he should be relocated. In the meantime, please discuss
the above pogsibilities with him and let us know his ideas on resideace other than

Luxembourg and on possible cover for his residence elsewhere.

     

    
        
   
   
         
   
   
    
    
   

a 5. During April 1961, QJWIN spotted some candidates in France. Two —
or three of these will have to be revisited by him fox a second look at them, and to
obtain data which he was not able to obtain during the first contact without arousing
suspicion on their part. We shall inform you and send pertinent details (by dispatch
if time permits) when we desire that this be done. In the meantime, please inform
QJWIN that the need for his recontacting these people without undue delay is recog-

nized and is on the front burner.

   
   
       
   
    
 

: 6. ° With regard to funding QIWIN, it te requested that he be given his
pay. travel money, operational money, and any other necessary fands in cash
during personal contaéts only. (We were disturbed to note in the report ofhis
LCFLUTTER examination his statement that money was deposited to the Banque
Internationale for him by the American Embassy. The deposit was pursuant to a
request fram Leopoldville, but the method of deposit was counter to the maxizaum
security we are trying to apply to our use of QJWIN.). : .

        
     
     
    

7. ‘it is essential that from now on all traffic be handled as follows:

   

. a. Cables to be slugged RYBAT ZRRIFLE only. (QJIWIN is still the
cryptonym for the person and should be used ia referring to him, but the slugging
must be as stated above to insure maximum security. ). .

     
   

b. Dispatches to Headquarters are to be sent tc KUTUBE/D only,
in the original and one copy only, staniped TOP SECRET LAURICLE. The dis-
patches are to be sent in sealed envelopes marked TOP SECRET, LAURICLE,
ZRRIFLE and ‘further marked aoe follows: .

    
       

 

 

 

 

      
    
 
    

 

mer meyer

ace
 

104-10185-10047

 

 

O.

CASA A
tor SECRET i

Chief of Station, Loxembour

     

__ PROCESSING

 
   

 
 
   
   
    
 
     
     
      
         
      
        
 

Pe
or SEN AND

 

"Chief, KUTUBE/D

 
 
  

Action Required: Ae indicated below

 

Reference: Din 43259 _

oO Subsatioeat to Rabney's-discussioa of QIWIN W

on 17 April 3961, Headguarters indicated to Rabney that'Q

wille might have to be-déferred. | Accordingly, Rabnaey told Q
there might well be a long delay ta moving him to Leopoldvill ¢
him in Europe. Foltowing Rabuey‘s retura to Headquarters, it was decided per
reference to keep QUWIN in Europe at least six months isuger as &® KUTUBE/D
PA and spotter. The reasons for this decision are sleuply that the pressures for
certain types of KUTUBE/D operations are increasing and that CJWIN is one of
our very few assets who can deai with the kinds of persons we are seeking. The
following paragraphs will provide you with the information you need at present for
contact with him. : ;

2. Although the contract signed by CUWIN te for Leopoldville, we regard
lg ag valid for continued work {a Europe oF elsewhere. This is the usual type of
contract for foreign agents, and we are providing you herein only the specifics
applicable to the administration of QIWIN: His salary ia $7,200 per annam {please
pay him $600 in cash at the end of each month). He will be advanced or reimbursed
travel expenses for authorized operational travel. He will be entitled to per diem
ia lieu of subsistence im the course of all travel performed for us. He will be ad-
vanced or reimbarsed funds for necessary operational expenses including, bat aot
Limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, The contract is effec-
tive 1 March 1961 for one year unicss sooner terminated by ODYCKE (a) by 00 cays
noticg te QJWIN, oF (b) without prior notice in the event of & breach of the contract
by QIWIN's violation of ‘security or by his otherwise renderiog himesif anavailable
for acceptable service. The contract may be extended upon notice from ODYOKE.

     
  
 

 

 

     
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
 

3. QJWIN's salary aud expenses should be charged as previously te
KUTUBE/D, citing the Cost Center previously provided to you. Regarding CJWIN’s

 
 

      
     

DATE TYPED

7 June 1962

TOP SECRET

 
74-00000

Cia

DISPATCH

 

CONTINUATION OF conene
, Tforl| sacker,

Attention; Chief, KUTUBE/D : ;
To be opened by Daniel M. PRESLAND oaly.

Gre copy of-each Station dispatch or cable may be retained by CCS, bul it ia reques'
that the filo be EYZS ONLY for COS and that all copies of all previcus traffic, notes,

ete., on QJWIN be included in this one file.

. ose
i c. Dispatches fram Headquarters will be sont in the original caly in
a sealed exvelope marked “To be opened by Chief of Station only.” Every attempt
will be‘fnade to cornimuanicate by dispatch rather than cable, althodgh some cable
‘trwffié will be unavoidable. : ‘ .
a. Necessary Headquarters
taken by Chief, KUTUBE/ D with Chief, WE.

8. B is extremely important that the accuracy and completeness’ of the
reporting on QJWIN's effarts be docble-checked. We note, for example, that ia
COLLA-1232 the name of BASSI's fizm (INTERGLOBO) was not included and that the
address of the woman mentioned in payagraps 3 is via Taiani, aot via Taimi.

specific actions required by this dispateh are:.

9. in sumsmary,
a. Moathly salary to CIVIN (paragraph 2)
b. Informing him re paragraph 4, sub-paragraph &.

¢. Chtataing his ideas on a possible relocation per paragraph 4
oub-paragraph b.
d. Inierming him per tha last sentence “fl caragresh 5.

@. Handling ef past and futare traffic per paragraph 7.

10. Please send a dispatch to KUTUBE/D with 4 report of cach contact
with QJWIN. We shall try not to burden you with t90 many contacts. Ay tor the
contact for the purposes of a. thru d. im paragraph 9 above, the next gas will
probably ba to brief him for a trip to France. During the contact for the purposes
of paragraph 9, please ask bim for any receipts, hotel bills, etc., for the travel
and operational money given to him during his April travels ia France and forward
these to KUTUBE/ D.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
L~ COS, Luxembourg

 

coorcination on the traffic will be under~
