Attachment I
74-00000

Attachment I

Universe and Scope of CIA Documents

Addressed Related to the JFK Assassination

Summary. This Attachment discusses CIA material
examined in order to fulfill the requirements of the JFK
Assassinations Records Collection Act of 1992 (JFK Act). It
addresses the types of CIA documents found in the records of
earlier investigations, including that of the House Select
Committee on Assassinations, and materials and files
recovered in response to searches conducted in 1992 and
thereafter. It discusses the process by which documents
became “assassination-related records.”

Discussion. The Central Intelligence Agency has
provided large numbers of documents and materials over the
years in support. of successive reviews and investigations
related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
We estimate that the equivalent of roughly 320,000 pages
comprise the “CIA collection” of documents associated with
prior assassination reviews, including duplicates. In
addition, we estimate that in responses to the JFK Act, CIA
has reviewed over 100,000 pages of documents from the
National Archives, the Ford, Johnson, and Kennedy
Presidential Libraries and miscellaneous papers from the
National Security Council, the President's Foreign
Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB), the Rockefeller
Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States, and
the Senate Select (Church) Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities.

The documentation exists in many forms, from original
contemporaneous material, such as field reporting from
overseas or analytic reports, to material generated
specifically as an Agency response to investigation
questions. The largest “CIA collection,” .as such, is
associated with the records of the House Select Committee on
74-00000

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN

7. Based upon the foregoing and Attachments I through
VI, I believe that the CIA is in full compliance with the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

_ Act of 1992.

I DECLARE UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY THAT THE FOREGOING,
INCLUDING ATTACHMENTS I THROUGH VI, ARE TRUE AND CORRECT.

Executed this 2. day of September 1998.

 

 

 

Edmund Cohen

 
 

   

to this declaration, which I incorporate herein

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN

4, The Central Intelligence Agency: (a) has made
diligent records searches to locate and disclose to the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records
in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the
assassination of President Kennedy; and (b) is aware of no

‘other assassination-related records in its possession being

withheld from the Board.

5. With respect to the overall issues of search and
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise
included by reference, the CIA’s Directorates of
Intelligence (DI), Operations (DO), Science and Technology
(DS&T), and Administration (DA) and the DCI Area Information
Review Officer have certified to me that their respective
offices or directorates have properly and fully responded to
requests from the Board. In addition to these
certifications, I have had briefings on the principal .
searches conducted and have had all of my questions answered
to my satisfaction. Accordingly, I believe that the Central
Intelligence Agency has worked diligently with the Board to
locate and declassify, consistent with the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, as
amended, reprinted at 44 U.S.C. 2107 note, and other
statutes, assassination-related records in its possession,
in order to make such records available to the public.

 
 

: ‘There are six attachments, numbered It igh VI,

reference. Attachment I addresses the universe and scope of
documents that have been the subject of CIA’s review.
Attachment II describes the methodology and types of the
searches conducted. Attachment III describes, in general,
the records declassified and released. Separate detailed
indices will be provided when documents are réleased to the
National Archives and Records Administration, Attachment IV
addresses questions raised by the Board regarding perceived
gaps in CIA’s records, including possible loss or
destruction of records. Attachment V discusses specific
requests from the Board and incorporates specific CIA
responses by reference. Attachment VI addresses commitments

which this Agency makes with regard to provision to the
‘National Archives and Records Administration of

assassination-related documents, including any documents
which may be newly discovered or created subsequent to the
tenure of the Board.

 
490009

 

/. “

UNCLASSIFIED

From the Desk of James R. Oliver
Chief, Historical Review Program

NOTE FOR: James R. Oliver@DA

FROM: James R. Oliver
OFFICE: OIM
DATE: 09/24/98 11:12:17 AM

SUBJECT: EXDIR Declaration Signature, 23 September 1998

Memorandum for the Record:

This is to confirm that | replaced the first page of the ExDir's signed JFK Declaration, dated 23
September, with letterhead stationery to assure that the statement was comparable to that signed
by Mr. Cohen, as earlier requested by the Board Chairman. The wording of the declaration was
unchanged; only the letterhead stationery was changed. | called Michelle in the EXDIR's Officer to
confirm that the Executive Director would have no problem with such a change (simply replacing
the first page}. She called back, saying that she had asked Mr. Carey, and he had no problem with
this change. :

Mr. Harrelson of this office will be hand carrying the EXDIR's declaration to the Board today. At the
same time, and in accordance with my agreement with Chairman Tunheim of yesterday, Mr.
Harrelson will be retrieving the earlier declaration signed by Mr. Cohen, the DCI letter of 16
September, both of which are being withdrawn. The Judge Tunheim also agreed yesterday that
since the EXDIR had agreed to sign the declaration that there will no longer be a need for the critical
language in their report on this issue.

James R. Oliver

ce: Edmund Cohen@DA
; R. Bruce Burke@DCl
Sent on 24 September 1998 at 11:12:17 AM

UNCLASSIFIED

 
74-0000

f LG Central Intelligence Agency

 

Washington, D.C. 20505

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN
I, Edmund Cohen, hereby declare and say:

1. I presently serve as the Director of Information
Management for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or
Agency). I have held this position since February 1994; I
have also held the position of Director of the Office of
Information Management since October 1997. I have served
with the CIA for over 30 years in a variety of intelligence,
legal, staff, and management positions.

2. As Director of Information Management, I am

: responsible for providing oversight and direction to the

( Agency's records and classification management activities,
and information declassification and release programs. I am
also responsible for the development and maintenance of
automated tools to support these activities. I oversee
classification and declassification policies, procedures,
and practices. I manage the Agency Archives and Records
Center, and serve as the CIA Archivist and the Agency.
Information Review Officer. I coordinate the conduct of
special searches within the Agency and the release of
information uncovered in such searches. I am also the
Agency's official liaison with the National Archives and
Records Administration and its Office of the Federal
Register, with the Information Security Oversight Office,
and with any other entities on any matters within the
responsibility or authority of the Director of Information
Management.

3. I make the following statements based upon my
personal knowledge, information made available. to me in-my
official capacity, the advice of CIA's Office of General
Counsel, and the conclusions’ I reached in accordance
therewith.
74-00000

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Special Assistant/EXDIR w 4

CIA SPEEPA@COPPECTIONS
Mr. Cohen ) RELEASE IN FULL B=
"olive, 2000

Jim Oliver called and wanted me to
pass on the following message:

Talked Judge Tunheim and he is willing

to release the two letters (Cohen § Tenet)
‘sand refrain from other derogatory

comments if the Carey declaration

is substantially like the ones Ed signed.

Michelle

He still would like you to give him
t call on 31805.

 
Prod-10332-40003]

 

1
ELE GUY!
THE DIRECTOR OF LLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505" @ 2;

 

tL -
Fr

-16 September 1998

Mr. John R. Tunheim

Chair, Assassination Records
Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Re: JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

Dear Mr. Tunheim:

This will respond to your 14 September 1998 letter regarding
Central Intelligence Agency compliance with the “JFK Act.’

I have no doubt whatsoever that the CIA has fully met its
obligations to locate, review, and release "assassination
records" as defined in the JFK Act. The Agency’s 2 September
1998 Declaration of Compliance-signed, as you note, by CIA's -
Director of Information. Management, Edmund Cohen-confirms my
judgment. I have full confidence in the scope of the Agency's
searches as described in Mr. Cohen’s recent declaration.

As Director of Information Management, Mr. Cohen is directly
responsible for CIA’s records systems and for ensuring the
adequacy of CIA's search, review, and release of documents under
the JFK Act. Mr. Cohen signed the Agency’s Declaration of
Compliance because he was the most senior Agency official with
direct personal knowledge that its statements were accurate and
complete. There was no more appropriate signatory.

In sum, I understand that the appropriate CIA staff cfficers
have worked diligently to locate and disclose to the JFK Board
‘all relevant records in the Agency’s possession and that they do
not believe any other relevant records are being withheld from
the Board. Mr. Cohen’s declaration confirms my understanding.
I trust that this will meet your requirements.

Sincerely, ;

George J. Tenet
74-0000

 

Central Intelligence Agency

. CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
‘a JN BULL

   
 

Washingjon, D.C. 20505

DECLARATION OF DAVID W. CAREY
I, DAVID W. CAREY, hereby declare and say:

1. I presently serve as the Executive Director of the
-of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or Agency). I Have
held the position of Executive Director since July of 1997
and have served with the CIA for over 29 years in a. variety
of operational, staff, and management positions. no.

3

2. As the Executive Director I am responsible, on
behalf of the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and the
Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (DDCI), for the
overall daily management of the Central Intelligence Agency,
for strategic planning and coordination, and for the
development and execution of the Agency’s annual program.
In order to carry out these responsibilities, I have been
delegated all authorities vested in the DCI and DDCI except
as prohibited by law or Agency regulation or policy.

3. The purpose of this declaration is to provide an

assurance that the Central Intelligence Agency: (1) has made

‘s a diligent records search to locate and disclose to the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records
in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the
assassination of President Kennedy; and (2) is aware of no
other assassination-related records in its possession being
withheld from the Board. I make these and the following
statements (including those in the attachments by reference)
based upon my personal knowledge, information made available
to me in my official capacity, the advice of CIA’s Office of
General Counsel, and the conclusions I reached in accordance
therewith.

4. With respect to the overall issues of search and
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise
included by reference, the CIA’s Directorates of
Intelligence (DI), Operations ("DO"), Science and Technology
(“DS&T”), and Administration (“DA”) and the DCI Area |

“Information Review Officer have certified to me that their
respective offices or directorates have properly and fully
responded to requests from the Board. Accordingly, I
believe that the Central Intelligence Agency has worked
diligently with the Board to declassify, consistent with the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107) and other statutes,
 

et

assassination-related records in its possession, in order to
make such records available to the public.

5. There are six attachments to this declaration,
which are incorporated by reference. Attachment I addresses
the universe and scope of documents that have been the~’
subject of CIA’s review. Attachment II describes the
methodology and types of the searches conducted. Attachment
III describes, in general, the records declassified and
released (separate detailed indices will be provided when
documents are released to the National Archives and Records
Administration). Attachment IV addresses questions raised
by the Board regarding perceived gaps in our records,
including possible loss or destruction of records.
Attachment V discusses specific requests from the Board and
incorporates specific CIA responses by reference. - And
Attachment VI addresses commitments which this Agerféy makes
with regard to provision to the National Archives and > -
Records Administration of assassination related documents,
including any documents which may be newly discovered or
‘created subsequent to the tenure of the Board.

6. Based upon the foregoing and the attachments
(Attachments I through VI, which are incorporated by
reference) I believe that the CIA is in full compliance with
the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107).

!

I DECLARE UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY THAT THE FOREGOING AND
THE ATTACHMENTS (ATTACHMENTS I THROUGH VI, WHICH ARE
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE) ARE TRUE AND CORRECT.

Executed this 23“ day of September 1998.

DAVID W. CAREY

 

 
