 

104-10183-10343

 

SECRET

    

Fi

 

 

AB Apri, e630

 

oe

irector of security
Alien Affairs ‘Staff an -
Vladiair RODRIGUEZ Labera - Sdsigaion: to the 6,5.

Of ‘Wife and Teo Hino? Childre

     

Subject ts a former statf esploys Of the Cuban.
‘defected to the free world in Ottawa, Canada
9 i t bad been planning his cefection for m tine” a)
accordingly:he -brought with hin a large anoint of. Classified material
which “he delivered to thia Agency. Ag a result of hia defection the
Agency wag the recipient of -extromely valuable information on the
Cubsa Intellisence Services both in Cuba anc io the Western Hemtapherea.
Since April 1964 Subject has continued to be of high value to the
ageacy and continues to agsist us in every tay possible.

     

 

   

 

  

2. ‘Xt hag now boen learned that Subject*s family (Wife and two
einer children by her first marriage) are oxpected to départ Cuba
for Mexico of 14 April 1963. In view of the’ imainent arrival of
Subject’s cepencents it is requestec that entry be arranged for the
faatly tn ag expeditious a manner as possible. While noraal entry
can be achieved.under section 222(D)(8) of the. Ieeigration and .
Hationality act it is folt that due to lavolvement with the Bepart-
Bent of State and the requiresent of National Agency Checks, the
adwiasion to the U.S. of Subject's fanily sight be delayed,

3. The expecitious, rather than routine, handling of the
visaa Of Subject’s family 1a of importance for Subject's morale
and because Subject, himacif£, should spend a minieum of tine in
Mexico for security and orerat tonal Feasona. Yurther, his proximate
Operational use ig anticipatee and any celaya to arranging for entry
of bis dépendentr coule regult in the celay or cancellation of
planned operations] activities. ,

4. Ft ts, therefore, requestec that Alien Affairs Staff
aPtrange with Tamigr:tioa and Naturalization Service for tke proapt
acalssion tate the U.3, of Suoject*s featly once they srrive to
Wexico City. — :

: i

 

 

o3 7
Orig & 1~--Adcressee [Fhomsey Rores J sO
In--Subject Pile eH/C/CO
FH/SEC
WH/C/ BO . ’
“1---8B/C/ESEC ag
ter “y

 

Originated by B.H, Aicalzo we/G/eORsILET . tennd sem . : :
