‘[rodort 10082

hw

¢

 

1. the fovtovinig U.8. documentation van(preparea by ts0/rB in tn a

 
 

' should show that he is single. a 3h

] ee eee

 

  
 
  
  
   
 
   

New York Driver' 2 fAcense.

.~), ” Pennaylvanta Birth Certificate .
“l) | Soelal Security Cara - eo
: Reserve Officers Association Menbership C Cand -

American Association of Engineers Membership cand

. United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance a

: International Certificate of Yecolnation’ ve

tee vt:

a. “the residence, Nwew York; ts'e aneusae

dwelling unit and was vided by Central Cover. This address is shown in

York Driver's License, Reserve Officers Association Membership Card, 0.8 &

a. Insurance Card, and International Certificate of Vaccination.” i

 

  

 

 

 

 

b. The Reserve Officers Association Membe ship ¢ “shows that CARR ,
is a Captain in the USAFR. CARSWELL stated Gn at his documents. - ‘

doe

 

“e. “The American Association of Engineers Menbership Card te an ctetiog
Organization. The address of the Association: is iisted as 8 South } Michigan:
Avenue, Chicago, Tiunois. .

 

a. The Intemational Certificate of Vaccination vas s prepared yt the |
Agency Iuaunization Branch and shows that CARSWELL was vaccinated by Rolla. >

R. Wolcott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinke, a Hulson &t. Rew w York
13, New York. *

e. The place ‘of employment which CARSWELL obtained trom Central Cover
was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central
Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ABSOCIATES since my 1960 s asa
production manager.

2. (Tsp, itsp/Li)provided CARSWELL with infomation-instruction > briefs which :
explained a

‘t/

he normally would have obtained his documentation. >

3. When purchasing his ticket: to Cuba, CARSWREL would have been required to oe

out two copies of a Cuban Identity/Disembarkation Card (Tarjeta de Identidad).

copy of the Tarjeta is picked up by Cuban Immigration Authorities upon landing in) S cube,
and the other copy is retained by him until he leaves Cuba at which time he has to .
surrender it to Immigration officers. The Tarjeta contains the following information on -

the individual: ;
Name : Occupation Address’ during stay in Cuba
Nationality Point of Enbarketion Tourist, Transient, Resident
. Country of Birth Carrier ; ; _ or Innigrant.
nee. Flight Number m. Ot
’ Date of Arrival: of
Marital Status ; Permanent Addresé

SECRET
