5. The 3 men have been held fn the ‘Modelo Prison, Nueva Gerona, .
Iale of Pines since January 1961,. We have been successful in getting money
and suppli¢s to them through the Washington Attorney to the Swiss Embassy
in Havana... They have matatained contact by letters. : ‘Thetr last corre
pondence ‘ . oo
reasonably good health. ‘The Swiss are attempting to verify ‘a réport: that.
3 Americans were teansferred to the Bontato, Prison in early. November 1962.

 
    
    
  
  
  
 
 
 

 

   

 

6. Te has 1 beet écessary in thts case to conceal Government interes
in the 3 prisoners in order to avoid their execution andor full Ul debriefing o on”
the sensitive information they possess, ; : : ;

 

te ‘The Washington Attorney has obtained ascoctate counsel in Mexico
City and in Chicago, Hlinols. The Chicago Attorney, who is unwitting of:
Government interest, (Gonstantine N. Kangles) visited Havana in May/Jane.
1962 and ag of November. 22, 1962 received word that as soon as possible ~
he will be invited back to Cuba to negottate with Fidel Caatro on this case. : net
Kangles expects the “yelease of the 3: men not Tater | an the firat week be, a

   

8 ‘Other operational efforts to secure the release of the men are in. oe
progress. We have avoided keeping Mra. Christ fully briefed on the spe" moe
cifica of the efforts being made, as she tends to be critical of the Agency
and of the fact that she ia unaware of any significant interest in the case In ‘
the Executive Branch of the Government. She has previously seen Mesars. a
Allen Dulles, General Cabell, General Maxwell Taylor, and General Carter. “

 

: a Mr. James Donovan, who has appeared in connection with negotia- .
tions for the Playa Giron prisoners, has been made aware of the 22 Amerl-.—
cans held in Cuba and of the Agency Interest fa. 4 of those prisoner: . He. ‘
has not been told thelr true mame@e 3 aan

  

10, David Christ's wife, Wilma, and their six children live in the
Washington area where they have been frequently visited by members of
the Agency. She has explained to neighbors that her husband is away on a
long TDY for the Government which has become a permanent assignment
and that in line with the new regulations on overseas travel of dependents,
she has not been allowed to follow him. Wilma Christ bas been pata her
husband's accumulated Per diem and salary.

me David Christ is 45 years old (his birthday 3 was 20 January He

  
 

(roto -o04 . Sete
Be eo oo ®
e eo : . ° uo ue :

wv

   
  

SUBJECT: «; Mra. David L, Christ.

     

1. On 15 September 1960, 3 , otatt ‘employees (Davia Chriet, Thornton’
Anderson and Walter Szuminski) were arrested by the Cuban G-2 while in-~
stalling audio surveillance equipment against the New China News Agency
in Havana, About thé same time an Agency case officer, Robext Neet, and.”
a stay-behind agent and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. ere picked™
up. All six were jailed. Subsequently, 3 Mrs. and Neet v were released _ 0
and deported. ; . - BR!

 

   
 

 

      

 

‘Be The 3 state employees. were operating: ander alias {dentities which -
have stood up to date (Daniel Carawell, Eustace Danbrunt, Edmund Taransky)..
The staff employees and the stay-behind agent were tried on 17 December =. *
1960. On10 January 196%, the'staff employees were sentenced to 10 years
in jail, and the stay-behind agent was ordered, dep orted. The deportati
took place shortly thereafte ; :

 
 
 
 
 

  
 

 

3. Following ‘the a arres' * “the 3 Agency employees + were firs detain a.
at the GeZ headquarters in Havana and shortly thereafter were moyed to! po
the LaCabana prison, : Itwas possible to keep them supplied. with, food, nee ;
cessities, radios, reading material, ete. On 23 January in spite of the...
immediate appeal of the sentence filed by their lawyer, the 3 men were
moved to the Isle of Pines where living and sanitary conditions are in-

' tolerable. Prisoners are required to perform hard manual labor, and.
there is an | insuffictency of food.” , : cep Ut Fo

 

4. with the assistance of Mr. Hugh Kessler, § a LU. s. ‘consular of-
ficial, close ‘contact was kept with the 3 men until diplomatic relations .
with Cuba were severed, Through a Washington attorney, James R. |
Murphy, arrangements were made with a Cuban lawyer, Dr. Fernando :
Golomar, to represent the 3 men in court. Colomar was not told of |
any Agency interest in the operation, Through the joint services of
Messrs. Kessler and Colomar, the 3} men were ‘eupplied with pocket |
money, food, clothing, toflet articles, etc. After diplomatic relations” :
were severed, Colomar continued to visit the men until they were trans= “
ferred to the Isle of Pines. a 4

 
 

isa graduate ‘of Pennsylvania State College with a degree of B.S, in Electrical
Engineering. He worked before the war for the Atlas Powder Company and.

was a ist Lt. in the USAAF from 1942 to 1946. ‘Following the war, he ine) -
structed at. Pennsylvania State College until 1950 en he joined. the Ag jency.

 
   

 

Vilma Christ is a years ‘olds, “There are 6 children tn the fenlly:

 

, “Thomas; age 18 . “Susan, age 9
.. Blaine, age 16 . Stuart, age 5
. , Hednda, age wo _ Rogers <38e 3

  

The 2 older children have been briefed on the situation ‘and are aware of their a

fotherte predicament;

   

 

 

   

 
