 

Gips

SeieT~

: - 9

ay business partner in Milan, Oreste Corletto, would be willing

to wake the trip for me." AMWIIP/1L did not have details on
Corletto at his fingertips but said that he would either send
the or téléphone them to “Harry Wills” the fol Reing days.
AMWHIP/1 stated however that Corletto, who is about 44 years old
and born in Milan, is very pro-American and defends the Awerican
position in the world at the drop of a hat with anyone ¥ho takes
issue. AMWHIP/1 stated that Corletto had just returned from a_
pleasure trip to Moscow and that if anything, was even more pro~
West and pro-American after this experience. (Follow up soonest)

(ORBANET/19 Gas-Light Club Membership

(1) It has suggested. previously that AMWHIP/1 buy
G@yaut/19 a membership in the Paris Gas-Light Club as a gesture
‘of friendship and good will. Guastaru/19 , according to AMMIIP/2,
enjoys the Gas-Light Club and its attractively dressed (or
undressed, as the case may be) hostesses. It is noted for the
record that Nester Sanchez Originally had had the idea that it
misht be possible to use this Gas-Light Membership in order to put
a willing, witting, and attractive woman aga ins t(CSBSAFU, /19 to
attempt the type of classic operation.

Local employees and Cuban Embassy Paris

     

Pp.
(1) AMWHEP/I stated that GORY was looking for a

female secretary who was fluent in French and Spanish, odkary, at)

stated that he preferred to have a local contract type employee
for this job as @t saved the Cuban tiovernment the additional cost

of pensions, social security, home Leave and travel erxpenses, ete.

- SEES
 

- io SESTET
In other words, the Cubans in the interest of economy are prepared
to sacrifice a degree of security. AMMIP/] stated that if we
had a girl who could handle this assignment, he would be willing to

0%
propose her employment to (URSNAFU/LO. (This we should follow up

soonest). This lead also was received by cable according te

subsequent to the undersigned's leaving WH/Cuba.

3. Security

There were no instances of a security nature to be reported.

 

However, it is the recommendation of the undersigned that the

tw case officer/s conduct their meetings with AMWHIP/1 away from
his office as much as possible, There was nu reason to believe
that any of AMWHIP/1's employees have overheard any conversations
in the past, but they prohably are well aware that the undersigned
is not always calling on AMVUIP/1 to discuss strictly commercial
matters. Since there may be a change in the complexion of the
AMLASII/1 operation and an increased operational use of AMWHIP/1
in Europe, it would be well to vary the pattern of meetings with
AMWHIP/L. There is probably no danger in calling on him at his
office occasionally, but prolonged conversations and too frequent

meetings with the new cause officer on the premises should be

avoided,

93.

 

 

 

 

 

SS elalatod
dente oy

vee
 

ng

o 19.

was certain that this ploy worked without suspicion, and stated
that he was willing to go further with this operation if so

desired by KUBARK, Caution! !

ne ASMHIP/1 representative to travel to Havana on invitation

o%
ot

(1) Regarding(UY19's offer for AMMHIP/1 or AMWHIP/2

to travel to Havana on 7 May with a french theatrical group in

order to examine: additional paintings, geus, and other loot taken

from Cuban refugees und mow offered for sale by the Cuban Governnent

. : an r
to obtain sorely needed foreign exchange, AMVHIP/1 stated that he

would need an answer on this matter fairly soon. (It will be noted
that we told(Paris) in DIR 99724 that there was interest in this
offer and that we were secking a suitable candidate). Since
Headquarters has not had a suitable candidate for this trip and
did not have prospects of developing one who could make the trip
securely, we asked AMNHIP/1 if he had someone in mind who could
make the trip. AMWHIP/1 stated that he thought an "experienced"
person of our choosing would be able to get more useful information
for us. We stated that perhaps it would be best not to involve

an agent witting of AMWHIP/I's true relationship with KUNARK in

the event that the agent was arrested and ferced to talk. We told
AMWHIP/1 that as a safer, but obviously less desirable, alternative
we might have an unwitting person go in, because much of the
information that he would normally get as a result of a legitimate
business interest in the loot will be in fact of use to KIVBARK,

ard we were willing to foreso a maximum "take" for the trip in the

interest of security. AMVHIP/L then said, "In that case, perhaps |

SECTET
 

SECLET

the Americans, that he was generally displeased because Americans
would use people like AMNIP/1 and then did not wish to talk to,
let alone deal with, people like himself and AMLASH/2. He did
not probe into the discussions in Madrid between AMMHIP/1, AMLASH/2
and @ipronr/1. AMWHIP/1 did say that there was no point in trying’
to argue with these people at that time, or to defend the possible
American positions vis-a-vis then, because they were in fact so ,
convinced in their own minds that there would be little use at
that time in trying to change their views (this point at a
subsequent fuller review of these discussions should be conducted

in Spanish by Swenson at an appropriate time in the near future).!

wu. MISPAWN Operation
(1) AMWHIP/1 did not have much addi Clonal information

to contribute concerning his MISPAWN talks with@i9 beyond that
reported in (baris>0355 (IN 41111), He did say, however, that he
had actually given the name and address of Mr.-(Gollado) to
Carrillos who included this in his cable about the matter directly
to Celio Sanchez to Havana. AMWHIP/L stated that he digressed
slightly from the story as given him in the briefing because he
felt that if he pin-pointed Fidel as the one leader who must go,
Gy19 would possibly then not have taken such quick action on the

matter, and in fact, may not have reported it at all, AMVIIP/L

felt that Carrillos undoubtedly will discuss the MISPAWN information

on his current trip to Havana, AMVIIP,1, as stated in above

eable, said that he offered to try to get wore information from
22 ow
Mr. Cathado it G@/19 so desired, (U/19 stated that he would await

|

[3

comment from Havana, before decinding on any further action. AMWHIP/1

meq

SES
 

 

 

(G20-4 ve *
in part) 025 253 (IN 37416). | asMe/2 repeated his feclings as

_ bagteally. reported: in: tive sforcuentionea cable. He stated that

 

dtonissGSare/9. He said however ‘tat GaSurv/o's pugilistic

attitude and threats to himself as Cuban Ambassador to France

eould Simply not be tolerated. He stated that had this flare-up
by UNSKAFU/s taken place in Havana, then it might have been

dealt with as a mani-to-aan watter rather than as an cuploye
to-employee matter. He also said that he hated to cireCuSsiaru/9
due to the latter's friendship with AMNIP/1 and AMVHIP/1. As a
result of UYBKAFU/9"'s being fired, his wife also lost her job with
the Cuban representation to UNESCO in Paris. She has since
however found another job in UNESCO working for the delegation of
another country. ,

. lax 19's recent trip to Havana -
Q) Becanse of the interest in the "coincidental"

trip to Havana of both GKAFU/19 and AMCASH/3 shortly after
having received the "planted" information of the MISPAWN operation,
we queried AMWHIP/1 regardine(ivie's trip. AMMHIP/1 stated that,
to the best of his knowledge, (i19 went home because ‘of the
precarious condition of his mother's s health. (spi9 was culled by
Foreign Minister Roa in Madrid and advised that he should return.
cya carried certain medicines with him for his mother. AMWHIP/1
did not know the nature of the mother's illness, but apparently it

om
came on rather suddenly (if possible, the medical history of(uyY19's

Sgr
74-0000

mother should be traced). AMVIIP/1 stated that AMLASH/2,
Garcia-Banga, and Gallerreta all confiracd(ty19"s mother's
illness. Carrillos left for Havana on about the 29th 3 March.

— Jj. for the record AMMHIP/1, in discussing tne (UBSRAFU/9-
GSNAFU/19 affair, stated that only(uy9 and his family and the
code clerk (Clavista) and his family now are living in the Embassy
building itself. The living quarters for a number of the other ;

Cuban wission eniployees are now logated in the Consular. (Check

this)

k. AMLASH/3 returned to Havana

(1) "Cucu DeLeon told AMWHIP/1 three or four days ago
in Miami that AMLASH/3 had called from Madrid very recently and
stated that he was going to return to Havana. AMNHIP/1 had no.
other details on AMLASH/3's return or whether in fact he had .
actually done so.

1. AMLASH/2
(i) AMWHIP/1 stated that AMLASH/2 and 3 were indeed

disillusioned with the Americans to date. AMLASH/3 still believed
that it had been through the office of the American Government
that he had been refused a visa to the Dominican Republic. (1t
will be recalled that AMLASH/3 had complained of this before to
AMWHIP/1, and AMWHIP/1 had been instructed to suggest to AMLASH/3
that. it was his own known employment by the Government of Cuba in
a legitimate capacity which was probably reason enough in itself
for the Dominican Government to refuse him a visa.) AMWHIP/1
stated that ‘he hud used this argument with AMLASH 3, but that
AMLASIL/3 remained convinced that there was more behind the refusal

than this. AMLASH/3 stated, in discussing his dissatisfaction with

Sit:
74-0000

“ gat =.

and related traffic) “who wanted hia to act as & contact wan with
Santos Trafficante who is presently living in Miami. Accordt ng
to GB, he had been told py(UNBNAFU/19 ayo), that DSE Ch Chief

Pineiro had. okayed the ‘Lotpowing operation involving the Cuban

lotteries played illegally: in Plorida, The Cuban Governitent: was

prepared to give throushcipis three winning nuubers _pet-wegk for
Trafficante to use 4s -prefftiag on the Cuban lotier#es ‘played: in

   

 

Florida, Trafficante was to pay $50, 000 upon receipt of the nunbers-
from(u7i9 and an additional $50,000 after the win, This money,
which would have been a free source of income to the Cuban Government,
would then be either banked in Europe py @iv19 on behalf of the,
Cuban Government or sent to Havana according to instructions he
received. GB had found out that AMWHIP/1 knew Trafficante in
Miami and, had contacted him to act as u messenger to Trafficante.
AMVHIP/1 was also offered, but declined, sum of money for his
participation in this operation. As‘a matter of interest this
ploy for illegat winning from the tottery was first conceived in
1959 by GB and Trafficante but it did not materialize as Pineiro

. and perhaps other govt officials would not play ball at that time.
It is interesting to note that, for the price of $100,000 a week
in foreign exchange, the Cuban Government is now willing to enter
into a conspiracy of this level with well-known gangster elements.
Other people in the Florida area who will probably be affected by
this action are Amlato Batisti (former owner of the Seville
Biltawre Hotel in Havana) and one. FNU Santos both of whom are also

involved as king pins in the lottery racket, in Florida.

 
 

 

104-10183-10446

 

7 oa ae ie a
Pa — genet ; was lease ere oo
Sak jie tm nes Core
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD wm ob nat ns pirtencdee
ee Ste afer Dialog
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP/1, Xew York cae 28 April 1965 atys

.|

1. Time-Place-Purpos'
AMMUIP/? was met on 2S April in New York City for the purpose

of introducing the undersigned’ s replacement and to debrief hia
on his recent trip to Europe. The undersigned ‘met anne /2 at his

office at 1215 hours, and chatted there for a short tine. The

 

undersigned and ANWHIP/1 then went to the lobby of Waldorf Astoria
was

 

Hotel where the undersigned's replacement, Mr.

introduced to AMWHIP/1. Mr. sed the alias “Harry Wills.*®

After a working lunch at the Waldorf's Bull and Bear Restaurant,

the party motored by taxi to the Taft Hotel (Room 551). The
meeting lasted, including lunch, from 1214 hours until 1700. At
the conclusion of the debriefing at the Taft, the undersigned
accompanied AMVHIP/1 back to his office and made the appropriate

goodbys. Following that, the undersigned returned to the Taft Hotel

 

to pick up Mr.
2. Details of the meeting
A majority of the items covered during the meeting have becn
the subject of previous cables from the field. However, for

greater clarity, a number of these were reviewed with AMWHIP/L and

’

additional information and comments obtained.

a. Cuban Government efforts to obtain foreign exchange

through the Plarida lotteries.

(1) AMWHIP/L stated that he had been approached in

Madrid by Rafael Garcia-Bonge Dirube (see Gladrid B486- IN 24295)
2w- eB

SECRET
 

~~ _SEGET

‘

 

Accoring to AMMER/E, Taba is the center for this activity.

AMWHIP/1 stated that if we wanted to take any action in this

 

matter, it would have ‘te be done soon as GB wowld expect hiw to
react regarding the contact with Trafficante in the very near future.

field ‘as any.

 

Extreme caution shoutd be used in any ‘action in this’
leak might readily finger to AMWHIP/1. At is interesting to note
nate in an interview wath a Gaaria Station on) officer (cited Para s-
(uadviad 4386), GB stated that he had turned down a DSE request to
work for them. overseas. He had however offered to become involved
jm illegal business deals abroad. on behalf of BSE. He never received
a reply to this offer. It is also noted that, according to AMWHIP/1,
Civiw is not witting that he (AMWHIP/1) ‘has this opportunity to :

act as a go-between with GB and Trafficante on this matter.

b. Luis Blanca Fernandez, Vice Minister of Communications.

 

(1) In response to the question AMVHIP/L stated that he
knew Blanca slightly but had no significant assessment to give on
the man. He did know that he was an old DR member and that the
best sources of information on him would be AMLASH/1, /2 and /3.

ce. AMNIP/T , .

(1) In discussing the general situation in Madrid and
Europe, AMVHIP/L again deplored the use by KUBARK of AMNIP/1
in operations against the Castro Cubans. He stated that he didn't
know him personally but that many people had told him that AMNIP/1L
was no good and a person in whom one could have obsolutely no
confidence, He cited for an exumple how AMNIP/1 had told the

mother of Diaz-Argueles that he had been sent from AMLASH/3, a

SECT

 
14-00000

i

one SE
4

stateuent, whiich-according to AMWHIP/2, was simply not true.

ehey

  

Milan Traved.At
qi) AMHHIP/1 mentioned the Travel Agency in Milan which .

 

a

he hud noticed was advertising trips to Guba. “AMGIEP/I had
nothing more to contribute to this bit of information beyond that
already reported in (uadrids900 (IN 47562).
ZAYAS Basan, Cuban technician at La Rothélle, France.
(1) AMHHIP/1 wentionied this ‘man may in fact have a

e.

   
 

brother, Enrique ZAYAS Bazan, who is syupathetico and. de: cow
working at the pafking lot at the Miami Airport. He had found
nothing to add on this lead other than: that provided ian

f. AMWIIP/1's itinerary in Europe.

(1) For the record, AMVHIP/1 varied his itinerary

during his last trip in Europe to some degree from that agreed

upon with his Headquarters case officer. His itinerary was as

follows: New York to Paris, Madrid, Paris, Rome, Milan, Madrid,

Mra, : ;
g. Jorge Medin Rivas, Vice Minister for Foreign Commerce

\ (1) AMWHIP/1 stated that Jorge MEDAN has a brother now
ny Bot 272 58G

Miami.

 
 

Za living in Miami, Ricardo MEDAN Rivas, who would be an excetzent
¥ 2o-
7 oN <o
N 2° entre to the former, AMWHIP/1 reported on Ricardo -in@aris) 0190
: (IN 35169), AMWHIP/1 stated that Ricardo was a trustworthy man
75
S who knows AMCRUMB/1 well, plus a great many people who are still -
. x: in the Cuban Government today. (Writer's note: This lead should
SY
Ly
, be followed through. -
a . gh.) oz ee
h.
A
x (1) The gist of this matter was forwarded to Headquarters
gL TT
Cus:

& |py
