13-00000

" now running as controlled agents.

particularly Cuban seamen, to increase the [|

officers and crew members aboard{ (Cuban vessels we are
2u
6. Penetration of Cuban Installations Abroad: At
24

the present time we are running| _ Puban diplomats
stationed outside Cuba as controlled agents and have viable
operations aimed at an additionai{_|tdban diplomats.
We propose to continue and intensify the current program
of attempting to recruit or defect every Cuban official
representative abroad to whom we can gain access and
concerning whom we have any reason to believe a
susceptibility to approach exists. These additional
penetrations will be attempted both through unilateral
operations and where appropriate in conjunction with
liaison services.

7. Audio Penetrations of Cuban Installations
Abroad: At the present time we have audio and/or

telephone tap coverage of Cuban official installations |

-

 

i

 

 

major expansion of this coverage is presently
contemplated, but we will continue to survey additional
targets of opportunity and wherever possible install
coverage in those cases where the additional intelli-
gence from this type of source over and above what we
are now receiving would appear to make such installation
worthwhile.

-9-
8. Gommunications Intelligence: We will continue
our present CIA Close Support coverage from the KOLA
station in Miami at the same level and will continue
to press NSA for additional coverage of Cuban communica-
tions. As the current situation "normalizes" it should
be possible for NSA to reinstitute and perhaps even
increase their, __ intercept coverage of Cuban
communications, 24

9. Communist Party Operations: A complete survey
has been made world-wide of all Communist Party
penetration operations and wherever any such penetration
can be directed against Cuba either by dispatching the
agent to Cuba or by pointing the agent against Cuban
targets, this will be done, except in those cases where
such action would result in unacceptabldprejudice to
the operations in the area where the agent is now based.
It is believed that the most lucrative field for the
redirection of such operations to the Cuban target will
be Latin America where there are! pénetrations of
various communist parties, Of this) | the survey
we have conducted indicates that{ “pave some direct
pertinent access to Cuban targets. All of tnes(  |wl1a
be directed against these targets unless in any case
there are overriding reasons to the contrary. The
remaining cases in the total of ar bein individually

examined to see if they can be diverted to Cuban targets.

-10-

 

 

 
13-00000

61

and through the development of additional legal travellers.
4. Liaison Operations: We will continue to press

the liaison services who are assisting us in the effort

against Cuba for additional coverage, including the

recruiting of agents within their own areas for joint

dispatch to Cuba. The services most effectively co-

operating at this point in this connection are the

 

Direct

 

approaches to several of these services either by you
personally or in your name, as you prefer, are .
being separately recommended. Personal representation
by you to the services underlined above would be useful.
In addition, we will re-survey all other liaison services
with which we are in contact and reiterate to those
appearing to have any assets usable against Cuba our
extreme interest in maximum coverage of this problen,.
In connection with the liaison problem generally, we will
endeavor to induce all of the liaison services to make
greater use of their national assets, both inside and
outside of Cuba. Particular attention will be given to
possible utilization of to

5. Maritime Operations: In addition to increasing
efforts to get at seaman agents and other maritime

assets through liaison services, we will continue our

unilateral third country efforts to recruit seamen and

-8~

 

 
y pd

with the contingency planning for supporting any possible
military action in Cuba, the Opa-Locka Interrogation

Center as such was dismantled, although the personnel

- of the Center have been retained intact. In order to

re-establish the flow of intelligence from refugees,

it is proposed that Pan American Airways and KLM be
induced to reinstitute their regular flights from

Havana to Miami. This should be done as soon as
possible after the settlement of the current negotiations
and UN discussions. Coincident with this, the Opa-Locka

refugee interrogation center will be re-established

 

with the same personnel.

2. Resident Agents in Cuba: Every effort will be
made to continue to exploit to the fullest, preserve the
viability of and, where necessary, re-establish communica—

24
tions with the(131)recruited agents now resident in Cuba.

 

To an extent, the speed and effectiveness of this effort
will of course depend upon the stringency of future

Cuban security and control action, which it is impossible

aaonrencetst

as yet to accurately forecast.

3. Third Country Operations: The priority on re-
cruiting agents in third countries for dispatch to Cuba

 

will be reiterated and strengthened and every effort
will be made to increase this coverage, both through

the development of additional resident agents in Cuba

-7-
6 c

C. Maintain through clandestine means, short of commando
and guerrilla type operations, the maximum economic and
political pressures on the Cuban regime and economy not” only
for the purpose of hampering the Cuban regime, but for the
additional purpose of insuring the maximum possible drain on
Bloc resources used to support Cuba.

D. Maintain maximum possible intelligence and counter-
intelligence coverage of Cuba, including particular emphasis
on:

1. Capabilities and intentions of the government.

2. Activities of the Cuban G-2 and its other
security organs,

3. Soviet and Bloc activities in Cuba.

4, State of potential resistance, including the
morale and temper of the populace.

5. Militia and military order of battle and equip-
ment.

6. The loci of power and of possible stresses
and strains in the power centers in the Cuban government.

7. Relationships between Cuba, USSR, Red China,
the Bloc, Latin American nations and other Free World
and uncommétted nations.

8. The level of and the weaknesses in the Cuban

economy.

-5-

 
13-00000

 

i

c

E, Take maximum action to induce a split in the Cuban
regime and maintain the capability of capitalizing immediately
through clandestine means to the extent possible on any
significant uprising, revolt, resistance, split in the regime,
or strains and stresses among Cuban leadership or in Cuban/
Bloc relationships.

Ill. OPERATIONAL PLAN;

A. Espionage and Intelligence Collection - All feasible
effort should be undertaken to continue and intensify intelli-
gence collection concerning Cuba. The status of our intelli-
gence collection and related operational activity at the
present time and its development during the past six months
is delineated in detail in Attachment A, which was prepared to
serve as the basis for the IG's report on this particular
matter to the President's Board of Consultants on Foreign
Intelligence, You will note that this lengthy document
breaks down under numerous sub-headings the intelligence
coverage which has been developed by the Clandestine Service.
Set out below are specifics of operational action it is
proposed to take to continue and, as possible, increase in-
telligence coverage of Cuba.

1. Intelligence Exploitation of Refugees: As you
know, with the quarantine and the cessation of air

travel the heavy flow of Cuban refugees has dwindled

almost to nothing. In view of this and in connection

-6—

 
q
{

B. These assurances will preclude any meaningful CIA
action on a phased basis to provoke a revolt inside Cuba, since
unless there are major changes in operational and internal con-

ditions in Cuba, such a revolt if provoked would be totally

 

destroyed by Cuban counteraction in a matter of hours or, at

the most, a few days unless supported by a major United States
ses Military commitment. In addition, the non-invasion assurances

as a practical matter will preclude invading Cuba on the pretext

of a contrived provocation such as an attack on Guantanamo.

 

C, CIA operations involving a high noise level and a
distinct element of attributability, particularly paramilitary,
guerrille, and commando type operations will be unacceptable
as a matter of policy.

D. The Castro-communist regime will remain in power for

 

the indefinite future with its security and control apparatus
relatively intact and with the capability not only of crushing
unsupported resistance activity, but of making operational
conditions in Cuba increasingly difficult. While it is

possible that recent and future developments including the

 

Soviet action in removing the offensive weapons from Cuba may
serve to weaken and discredit Castro, there is as yet no hard
indication that the control of the Castro-communist regime over
Cuba has been substantially weakened.

E. The United States assurances of no invasion and no
support of an invasion will, in effect, constitute giving to

Castro and his regime a certain degree of sanctuary. This will

 

-2-
104-10307-10024

Rest

ou

.

 

D TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

T 27 November 1962

Note: Discussed 27 November
1962 by DD/P with DCI
and approved generally
in principle by DCI.

 

Fully concurred in
by DD/P. Q
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence he
THROUGH: Deputy Director (Plans) *
SUBJECT: Operational Plan for Continuing
. Operations Against Cuba

 

1. Action: This memorandum is for your information
and pursuant to your request. Recommendations for action are
contained in Paragraph VY below. The purpose of this memorandum
is to delineate an operational plan for the action which we
believe should be taken by CIA against Cuba for the predictable
future, In summary the plan provides for continuing, even
intensifying, the intelligence effort against Cuba and for
the reorientation of the current effort into a long term

denied area type of operation of the highest priority.

I. ASSUMPTIONS:

A, The United States Government will give public
assurances that, provided no nuclear or offensive weapons are
present or re-introduced into Cuba, and provided Cuba does
not take action to threaten the peace and security of the
Western Hemisphere, the United States does not intend to

invade Cuba or support an invasion of Cuba.

 

TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE
 

EEE
oe

severely damage the morale and motivation of anti-regime Cubans
both inside and outside of Cuba, which will make it increasingly
difficult for us to recruit. agents, maintain agents already
recruited, and continue or intensify our intelligence and other
efforts against Cuba and the Castro-communist regime.

F. Despite the above factors, Higher Authority probably
will continue heavy pressure on the CIA for a maximum effort
against Cuba and may even continue to contend that the ultimate
objective is the overthrow of the Castro-communist regime.

This is an unrealistic objective, however, except on a very
long-term basis as the United States Government, we believe,
will be unwilling in the immediate future to commit troops

to support such an overthrow. The United States Government
in its overt dealings with the Cuban exiles probably will not
express the above factors to them in the context or with the
bluntness stated here.

G. In view of these factors, the so-called "Track Two"
course of action, i.e., unlimited support of Cuban exiles
and exile groups with no real control or objective purposes
in the hope that these groups will be able to shake the
Castro regime will, although unrealistic, become increasingly
attractive at various levels in the United States Government.

H. As a matter of policy, political pressures and
economic pressures short of blockade, raids, and aggressive

sabotage against Cuba will be continued.

-3~

 

“st
C €

I. In view of the above assumptions paramilitary, commando
and sabotage operations, except in rare selective instances
will serve little purpose; also they will be counter-productive
since, if undertaken, they will make the collection of intelli-
gence more difficult and should only be undertaken in those very
few instances where an unusually high return can be demonstrated.
Regardless of what other pressures are placed on CIA for
action against Cuba, it would appear clear that Higher Authority
will insist on a continued, even intensified, intelligence
coverage of Cuba,

J. %In view of the policy factors, an increased use of
facilities, real estate and basing outside the United States,
particularly in Latin America, will be both necessary and
desirable.

K. Adequate aerial reconnaissance of Cuba will continue.

(Veldlty of ua 0tpurviption 2  petordld)

Il, OBJECTIVES:

‘Based on the above assumptions, the following objectives
appear to be proper for continuing CIA operations against
Cuba:

A. Take all feasible clandestine action to isolate
and assist in isolating the Castro-communist regime in Cuba
from the rest of the Western Hemisphere and the rest of the
Free World,

B. To the maximum extent possible, discredit the Castro-
communist regime in Cuba and in the Western Hemisphere and the
rest of the world.

~4—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
