13-00000

| ~ SECRET:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

militant propaganda organ, "Revolucion Socialista,"
is an unusually well-printed periodical for a clan-
destine insurgency group, and may actually be pro-
duced in Havana. It is distributed widely in various
parts of the country. This periodical is far su-
perior in layout and content to the official propa-
ganda published by the Guatemalan Communist party.

 

13. Former Guatemalan President Arbenz and
his ex-foreign minister and their families reside
in Havana, and are active in the propaganda effort
directed against the present Guatemalan Government.
There is Strong indication that Cuban direction
and funds enter Guatemala from Mexico. It is also
likely that considerable cooperation exists between
insurgents in Guatemala and neighboring Honduras.

14. Reliable clandestine reporting indicates
that sevaus seit is in contact with leaders of

 

"hard- line" Communist followers o§@

‘@@% The Cubans’ attitude toward these and other
revolutionary hopefuls in Latin America seems to

be: "We will give you Support when you begin the
armed struggle." One of the most frustrating situa-
tions for the Cubans has been the inability of the
Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR) in Peru

to initiate anti-government activities. At one
time, the MIR had over 500 personnel who had re-
ceived training in guerrilla warfare or political
indoctrination in Cuba. Similarly, Cuba's apparent
lack of Success in promoting a pro-Castro insurgency
effort in Bolivia probably is a disappointment.

15. In summary, Cuba appears to be concentrat-
ing its support of Latin American revolutionaries
on those who are willing to fight and have the best
prospects for success. Although Cuba's leaders are
much less confident than formerly about the quick
emergence of "new Cubas" in Latin America, there is
little reason to believe that Fidel Castro will

abandon the "revolutionary struggle." He may how-
ever, move cautiously in this regard for tactical
reasons,

-6-

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
ECRET
13-00000

SEGREF:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

9. In focusing on Venezuela, Havana is prob-
ably most encouraged by the well-established Commu-
nist-terrorist apparatus with which it can work.
Recent reliable clandestine reports state the Vene-

.zuelan Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN)

can draw upon Some 1,800 supporters--several hun-
dred of whom are full-time activists--spread through-
out the country. The FALN is well-organized,
reasonably well-financed, and most importantly~--in
Havana's eyeS--willing to take action against the
Venezuelan Government. The FALN stepped up its
activity considerably beginning in late September,
although it has since had to curtail its urban
terrorist activity and concentrate on operations in
the countryside. Havana's propaganda support rose
accordingly, nearly reaching the level it achieved
in the autumn of 1963 when the FALN was making a
determined effort to bring down the administration
of former president Betancourt. Among Cuban gestures
in 1964 were: participation of Cuban officials in
the launching of a new "Solidarity with Venezuela
committee"; launching of a new domestic radio pro~
gram specializing in reports on Venezuela; and an
islandwide "solidarity" celebration held from 14 to
22 November, which included the opening of an FALN
mission office in Havana, elaborate ceremonies,
speeches, and interviews with FALN leaders.

10. Recent. information strongly suggests
Havana is basing its hopes for the struggle against
"imperialists" in Colombia on a relatively new or-
ganization, the Army of National Liberation (ELN).
The ELN is the clandestine terrorist arm of the
Colombian Liberal Revolutionary Youth Movement.
(JMRL), and is called the country's "number one ter-
rorist group" by the US Embassy. Fabio Vasquez,
probably the most influential ELN leader and the
group's new chief of guerrilla activities, is be-
lieved to have returned to Colombia in late Novem-
ber after having go

 
  

 

fod funds.
told embassy officiais in? =} a
ive guerrilla operations probably would begin

early in 1965 if Vasquez succeeded in obtaining
additional funds from Cuba. The ELN had previously
received US $25,000 from Havana, according to the
source.

~4—

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
—SECREF
13-00000

i sO --SECRET-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

11. The ELN is said to be planning a two-
pronged guerrilla-terrorist operation, coordinat-
ing an urban campaign modeled after the familiar
tactics of the Venezuelan FALN with a program of
-rural violence. On 7 January ELN guerrillas at-
tacked a small town in Santander state, where they
killed three police agents, robbed a local bank,
and herded the townspeople into the central plaza
for an anti-government, anti-US haranguing. After
the assault, the ELN band withdrew to the nearby
mountains. Meanwhile, Cuban propaganda media con-
tinue to emphasize Bogota’s "brutal repression" of
the people of the "Independent Republic of Marque—-
talia." Colombia's military has been engaged in
a prolonged operation against Communist bandits in
that department.

12. Primary advantages from the Cuban point
of view in the case of Guatemala are the existance
there of an active guerrilla movement led by Marco
Antonio Yon Sosa and the unsettled political situa-
tion in the country. Also potentially advantageous
are Cuba's geographical proximity to Central America
and the large Cuban diplomatic establishment in
neighboring Mexico. There is no doubt that Yon
Sosa's group receives inspiration and some money
from Havana, and that Fidel considers it the one
organization in Guatemala with the capability to
sustain violent revolutionary activity. The guer-
rillas operate over a fairly wide area in Guatemala
in small but highly mobile bands. They harass |
military outposts, assassinate certain military of-
ficers or persons unpopular with the peasants, and
raid small businesses. There are increased indica-

tions of local support
a ter ePOF TET tn mage veremres
=type terrorist actions--some against US tar-

gets--were planned to begin soon in Guatemala. and
Honduras to provide new publicity for revolutionar- ;
ies in both countries. On 31 December, 5 terrorists |
burned the US AID garage in Guatemala City, destroy-
ing it and 23 vehicles. This raid occurred less

than three weeks after Guatemalan authorities cap-
tured large amounts of terrorist equipment and,

they believed the headquarters complex of the sub-
versives in the capital. Yon Sosa's organization's

  
   

 

 

 

-5~

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
13-00000

~“SEGREF-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OCI No. 0746/65

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Office of Current Intelligence
11 January 1965

INTELLIGENCE MEMORANDUM

Cuban Subversion in Latin America
ince June

1. Clandestine reporting, aS well as recent
statements by Cuban leaders, leaves no doubt that
"export of the revolution" continues to be a key
policy of the Castro regime. A former Cuban in-
telligence officer reports the Castro regime has
in operation a highly professional espionage and
- subversion agency, the General Directorate of In~
telligence (DGI), one of whose main tasks is the
support of revolutionaries in Latin America.

2. Nevertheless, several reverses for Castro-
supported groups and individuals in Latin America
during the last year, combined with a possible tac-
tical realignment of priorities in Havana, appear
to have led Fidel Castro to be less sanguine about
prospects for achieving any quick revolutionary
successes. The July OAS resolutions condemning
Cuba's past activities in Venezuela may also have
caused Havana to adopt a more cautious subversion
policy. In addition, the subsequent severance of
diplomatic relations with Havana by Bolivia,
Uruguay, and Chile deprived Cuba of three important
diplomatic posts which could be used to facilitate
subversive activity in southern South America.

3. Confronted with such additional obstacles
to the promotion and spread of violent revolutionary
activity, the Cuban leadership seems to be focusing
its subversive efforts today largely on three coun-
tries--Venezuela, Guatemala, and Colombia--where
guerrilla-terrorist organizations have been operat—
ing for Some time. Castro probably does not have
much hope of full-scale revolution in the near
future even in these countries; he probably does

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
RE“

comeoreesot
 

104-10338-10019) Y
. NO FOREIGN DISSEM SECREF Vv

 

11 January 1965

OCI No, 0746/65
Copy No.

 

INTELLIGENCE MEMORANDUM

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA
: SINCE JUNE 1964

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE
Office of Current Intelligence

GRouP 1
Excluded from automatic
. downgrading and
declossification

~“SEEREL.

 
13-00000

—\SEGREF-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

regard them as the best bets over the longer run.
This does not mean that Cuba will cut out other
Subversive efforts, but that it is now more likely
to concentrate on targets of opportunity in the
-other Latin American countries.

4. Fidel Castro stated to a Western corres-
pondent in Havana in late October that the contin-
uance of the Cuban revolution depends on "other
Cubas" succeeding on the continent. Castro ex-
pressed this thought again in his public address
on 2 January in which he said that the US will ul-
timately be forced to come to terms with Cuba
when it has to deal also with "several" other
revolutionary regimes. On 30 November, Che Guevara
made the most militant public statement on the
“anti-imperialist struggle" in Latin America to
be delivered by a ranking Cuban official for some
months. He hailed what he called the growing
strength of the Latin American "liberation move-
ment," and called for greater efforts by the revo-
lutionaries in the hemisphere. Guevara made special
reference to the progress of the revolution in.
Venezuela, Guatemala, and Colombia. On 13 December,
while in New York to address the UN General Assembly
session, Guevara said that "bullets not ballots"
will bring revolution to Latin America. He candidly
admitted that Cuba has helped the "freedom fighters"
of Venezuela "acquire military knowledge." He once
again Singled ovt revolutionaries in Venezuela,
Guatemala, and Colombia for special praise.

5. Cuba's principal agency for subversion,
the DGI, was formed in late 1961, and is advised
by at least five Soviet intelligence experts. It
has three operational departments, the largest of
which is concerned with promoting "national libera-
tion" in Latin America. This is the department
charged with selecting other Latin Americans for
guerrilla warfare training. The DGI's methods of
selecting, training, and assigning eSpionage agents
and guerrilla warfare specialists reveal a high
degree of professionalism. Moreover, the DGI has
developed complex travel arrangements designed to
hide the fact that Latin Americans coming to Cuba
to receive training have actually been in Cuba.

2.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
— SEC
13-00000

SEGRET-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6. The number of DGI agents now operating on
the continent may well total several huadred. Re-
liable sources. continue to report Latin Americans
traveling to Cuba for guerrilla warfare training or
political indoctrination. However, the number of
Latin Americans being trained in Cuba apparently
is considerably below the 1962. level. Most of these
are trained under DGI auspices, and are capable of
exploiting local resentments and stimulating activi-
ties which could develop into difficult internal
security problems in several Latin American countries.
Perhaps more importantly, these activists usually
impart their knowledge to local militants--at little
expense or risk to Havana--to increase the revolu-
tionary potential in their countries.

7. Providing guerrilla warfare training and
political indoctrination remains the major form of
Cuban Support for Latin American revolutionaries,
Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, and other Cuban leaders
continue to proclaim that "Cuba's example" is the
most important "Support" they give to Latin Ameri-
can revolutionaries. Havana also continues to give
relatively modest sums of money to some Castroist
groups. Propaganda support from Cuban press and
radio media is Still a major Cuban means for reach-
ing pre-Cuban groups on the continent. There is
Still no firm evidence to support the many reports
alleging that Havana is now sending arms or Cuban
guerrilla experts to other Latin American countries,
although the 3-ton Cuban arms cache found in Vene-
zuela in November 1963 clearly reveals HBavana's
capability for giving material support to Latin
American revolutionaries.

8. A nunber of clandestine reports have stated
that Algeria is cooperating with Cuba in support of
"netional liberation" movements in Latin America,
Some have mentioned that training camps for Latin
Americans are located in Algeria. Migh level Cuban
leaders such as President Dorticos and Che Guevara
make fairly frequent trips to Algiers where Presi-
dent Ben Bella joins them in endorsing liberaticn
movements in Latin America as well as in Africa.

It may well be that a "mutual-assistance" arrange-
nent is being worked out--Cuba to provide some
clandestine help for Algerian activities in Africa,
and Algeria to reciprocate by supporting certain
Cuban onerations in Latin America.

-3-

NO FOREIGN DISSE
~SEGRE-F
