14-00000

STE Dee op ere
a ee,
re ee Re er I

APRIL

a
GO

 

 

For seven years, our

two invisible governments
have been fighiing

for control of the small,
impoverished Caribbean
nation of Haiti. The outcome
is still in doubt

BY ANDREW ST. GEORGE

HLUSTRATED BY DAVID STONE MARTIN
om,

The CIA equipped
guerrillas,
amphibious-landing ©
parties, spies

and terrorists—and
even bombed the
president's palace

. mericans who never thought of politics as any-
[\ thing but visible—visible and audible, for that
“\-t_matter—spent an unhappy time in the ’60’s ad-
justing to the discovery that the United States had an
invisible government, too: in point of fact, two of
them. There is, for one, the CIA, all over Washington;
then, second, there is the national syndicate of or-
ganized crime, all over everything else. But it has re-
mained for the generation of the °70°s to discover
that—perhaps inevitably—once these two shadow
powers collided somewhere, the confrontation esca-
lated into an invisible war. : .
It may well be the first full-scale secret war Ameri-
cans have ever fought: its origins disguised, its battles
unreported, its casualties anonymous, even its most
obvious scars so blithely ignored that when a French
reporter recently wrecked her car in one of its gaping
homb craters, she complained of “potholes.” The

Ry

Ny

 

battleground is the nearby Caribbean nation of Haiti
and the immediate issue is simple: who will con-
trol her Maryland-sized national territory and 4.5
million desperate people? But the real struggle is for
far bigger stakes: primacy over the entire Caribbean
and its vast potential wealth. And—in the ultimate
upset to Amcrican tradition—ihe bad guys seem to
he winning.

Tt is not impossible that, as in Vict Nam, our un-
declared war in Haiti might flicker on and off until

. the ’80’s. arrive, but one of its most un-American :
- aspects is beund to disappear by then: it-will no longer

be a secret. It-will be the much-debated public prop-
erty of historians, policy scholars, social scientists—

-the stuff of Sunday beok supplements and John Wayne

movie options. :
There is bound to appear a best seller by a White
House insider—an Arthur Schlesinger III, 80 to speak
14-00000

     
    
   
  
 

erday it paid:
, fur the boat.
“y understand it

javasion boat.
to be on it, The «
or board and lodg-

94,50 was paid ;
rae hk, which was i
2 and later :

 

 

Suit Against CES

the fiiming of
5 at Kend

 

: aes that McMullen trans-
distributed them to the men.
After his injury, Hermiila

vcharged, medical aid was de-
Vlayed until] CBS cameramen
. could photograph the incident.
+, Hormilla later settled his-
“suit with CBS for $15,000, the
report says.

According to the report, Wer
Bell, Masferrer and St. George
Showed up af the Miami office
‘of Haitian Consul Eugene

faximilian -and offcredo end

reparations for the invasion
~ if Duvalier put up $200,600.
When no.answer appeared to

 

  

 
  

 
 
   

‘port.says the plotters offered ~
intermediary: to
f their convers
tion ‘with Pe faximilian back to
_ the consul for $20,000,

 

 

    
       
  
  
  
  
 
     
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
 

  

orted weapons to Kendell and

 

     

 

  
  

 

s:
Fe

  
        
 
 
 
     
    
    
   
 
   

wr to Duvaiier,
FBI ond to U.S. Cus

c ion by Duyal- :
ier to foil the invasion. ° ;
Schacter, meanwhile, [4

form Masferrer,¥,
Georges: _ and “MeMuilen~

 

 

Beli approached = MeMutlen
ang said he had the-tape. -
“McMullen” said, “Hell, 1
n't. touch i ” according to

    
 

ple shift’ to ae ee Beach
and begin’a new countdown.
On Jan. 2, U.S. Custer

takes
place, The Doiminiesn Resub-
lic is “uncooperative” over the
use of its territory as a base
foz the Haitian invasion so the
plotters decide to strike direct-
ly from the United States.

Appears a Scoop
A CBS crew is flown to years. The vert
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and the. in New Oris:

network hires its own flagship’
for $2,500 to trail the rebel
flotilla, NBC and ABC wer
struggling to catch up with thi
story. but the_“‘scoop,””
peared, belonged to CBS.

Nov. 20 is the day before the:
invasion. But that night, CBS
correspondent Eert Quint, in - ré
tly reports “a “pattie raging —the govern
“the streets ‘between rebels Me

fusti
Department “dropped Wer Bali
as a defendant, and’ the con
’ gressional’ investigators
ported that all attenipts to get’
‘an explanation -from Justice
i idefendan

 

 

  
 

icials ‘of. the Justice. Depart-
ante Customs and the U.S.

  
  

” and: forces loyal to Duvalier.

There is reason to believe,
tie congressional staff report

 

 
   

public hearings.
14-00000

   
   
    
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
     

ui it in March 1936,
in April to film inva:
ans, . including “
hipmenis und cach-~
i did so iudune and at
fines, Hfurlher con
to that the network

    
 

  

ot eee ea Renae

 
  
 

ubcommit pt
‘says CBS’ association with the
conspirators began ‘-in “March

    
   
  
   
   

 

lown as “The ‘Tiger. ” He;
rantraied a a_private army in; cy hape
yaw nen Fulgencio Batista, initially as just one more Latin

i: ‘intrigue ‘in Florida to topph
Jean. Baptiste the regime of Cuba’s Fidel

 
  

  
   
  

Latin © preemie is intro-
duced’ by St. George ‘ to’ Me:
ullen in April at Wer Bell’s :

home in Powder Springs, Ga.

     
 

 

       

    
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

  
    
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
 

' “atholie priest and * Castro.: <{” MeMullen, said the report, ’.
[former education minister, = In this “instance, the plan, | was told of Wer Bell's efforts
vier Haitian President Fran- ; called for’ Masferrer to be'in-; (9 find a suifablé base in the «°

stalled as chief.of-Cuba while—
Father Georges took over Hai-'.. -
‘ti, provided a two-stage inv:
“’ sion was successful. .

 

Domincian ‘Republic for Mas:
° derrer to launch his invasi

Price Tag: Cited
_.MeMullen-was-aléo-told,-20

 
 
 
 
  
 

 

      
   
  
 
   
      

 

in rough MeMulien;-a-prod

EN eager: te -film- arms-smuggling. ording to. the report, that f
b: activities. The special subcom- price,-exclusive.CBS filmin,
ti Iittee’s chief: investigator, ? of clandestine arms. ”. shi
re ot James -P. Kelly, himself a for- "ments, training exercises an!
«AMitchell Wer Bell TI. 2 rou- . | mer CBS employe, is said to the actual invasion could be
iifons dealer linked to clam* have worked on a project | : arranged. ©

with McMullen in 1965 to film }
illegal export of surplus fight
That ‘project was

 
 
  
  
 
 
   
     

McMullen agreed to: “pay |
lose to $80,000 for: . these
‘rights, ‘the’ report says;
CBS hired St. George as :
ciate producer and writer of .
_ the invasion story.

AS 2° down payment, St.
‘deliver ha Wer Be

 

     

“breaks ‘down’ in” Maco:
‘and the driver has
cash, CBS provides I
help and 21965 Mereur

     
      
   
  
  

Lory
lor C58 Sn ode
op slary,
wt Ate Gourge, a.
wlance wriier who Lipped
CBS on the invasion plans.
was hired by the network
» associate Producer. and

  
     
  

    
 
   
 
      
   

   
   

 
 

: Vames Wilson, | a CBS cam
epman -who- informed féderal

 
14-00000

| . _ . Mey ’ . om
\ ao 3 SNIPES Oy Eee

Sic 0-U-N-S . @ DUN & BRADSTREET, INC. STARTED RATING

    

941 04-969-3849 YOR 69 SEFT 9 1970 (FU 10-8)

{ MILITARY ARMAMENT CORP MFR GUNS { --
(Subsidlary of Envircnmental . yf ;
industries, inc., Washington, D.C.)
RT 43 ; i SUMMARY _
P.O. BOX 168 - 4 a 2 .
POWDER SPRINGS GA 30073 st ; PAYMENTS UNDETERMINED

TEL 404 943-3574. odo. EMPLOYS = 12

; : RECORD INCOMPLETE
MITCHELL L. WERBELL, I1f, PRINCIPAL

‘
i
1

PAYMENTS --.-_- Trade references dect ined. |;
FINANCE On Sept 9 1970, Mitchel! L.iWerbell, iil, principal, deciined any
; and all Information. : :
i Investigation of outside quarters falled to reveal any detalis.
An analysis by reporter Is Impossible due to the lack of Informa-  _
tion. : ~~
A check with pubtic recerds has been Initlated, and will be published

upon compietion.

HISTORY Incorporated Cots County, Georgie on tuly | 1970. Authorized capital
1,090,900 shares of common stock at-ne gar veiue, Paic ia capital £1,000,
WERBELL, Lil, born about 1918, married, Reperiadiy vas previousiy associated
with Sionies, inc., Atlanta, Ga. Also appeared as owner of Mitchell L.
wertell Advertising, Atlanta.

OPERATION Qperates as a subsidiary of Environmentai Industries,-inc.

Environmental industries, Inc., Wasnington, 0.C., detalls not avallabie
at this rime.

Subject manufactures guns used in warvare. Sates are made to the U, $.
Governmant and foreign governments. REporter estimates 20 accounts. Employs
ig, inciuding officers...LOCATION: Operations conducted from 60 acre estate
owned by Mitchell L. Werbeli, ill.
9-25 (32 87)

THES REPORT MAY NOT SE REPRODUCED IN WHOLE OR IM PART IN ANY FORM OR MANNER WHATEVER,

7 é i 1“ |, rrarketing
I fmihed br OUN & BRADSTEEET, INC. te STRICT CONFIOENCE ot vou runt under your webciton sarenment for yew extn ong. o ba fo cra murenes, metas

 
74-0000

  

  
 

   
 
  
   
      
   
  

: ns or that it had ain
"‘eomplicity in the plot.” -
-Asked wither the networ'
ad knowlege that
was ning: violated, °

  
    

 

Broadcasting
: r accused in
tHe ubcommi!
port of contributing

6G to a 1866 plot:

 

     

 

tion is general
wn, ov there is reason to
© that law enforcement
know about it, then

 
  

* them? :
nt sald CBS New
uditure for the “Widitian
project” was betwee tatoo
and 2170,009, “About
: this went for
c ravel, buard,
and paymenis to non-staif
“sannel,” he said,

  

 

 

     
 

 

 

lint
in.
tails of the network's Involve

{to the i invasion aitempt

 

   

 
  
 
  
     

  

 
    
   
 
 
   
    
      
   
    
  

ed without notifying

  

Although CBS — has “been :
lier news accounts; de-.. |

- ment have never been ‘dise”

    

 

   
      
    
 

  

Houses Cominetee Committee

said ig an ‘interview. 2°! *.
| ‘Phe report, which was pre-
pared j for: the subcommittee
last Junie /20, caused ‘some
agonizing in the Commerce
Committee: over whether to
call a ipublic hearing. _

Infor mation in the report Jed
to subpsening of CBS films,’
financlal records and logs in
connection with the invasion
' attempt. Executive sessions
were held at which CBS per-
sonnel testified,

In their report, staff mem-
bers of the Special Investiga-
tions subcommittee accused
CBS of irresponsibility and
said the network may have
violated “six federal statutes,
inchiding the Neutrality Act,
the Munitions: Control] Law, the

 

  
   
  
  
 
      
   
       
   
    

c hearings “at this -

Pioaever, b he said, “I'd:
greater bope for -such
rings gett ing at the truth i
could te held in a forum
e opportunity for
nation,” .<¢

“The invasion finally was bro:
ben up by customs agents oy :
Jae, , 1637, in a'raid at Coco .
Flum ite Fla. CBS” had

   

   

 

  

  
    
       
     
   
     
   
     
   
    
  
 
 

wore indicted by
as ringleaders of .
Six of them’ were
civieted in Novem-
le the charges
justice De were

 

   
 

 

RICHARD S$,-SALANT » Communications Act of 1934 sti
; “and seyeral firearms laws... Taent, There _ is anyappe
closed. The invasion itself nev. .-° ‘The! prabers recommended pending in New Orleans,
er came off, 2 that the network be called to According to the Commi ar
“This committee has anex- ._; public: account in cpenhear- subcommittee staff report,:the -
cellent pleture of what took ~~ ings before the Commerce’ Flot was hatched early in’ 1966 -
place,”. a member of the . Committee, which has authori

   

 

 

 

 
74-0000

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY:

 

5 November 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director/IOS

SUBJECT : Military Armament Corporation,
Powder Springs, Georgia; Subsidiary of |
_ Environmental Industries, Inc.,
Washington, D. C. - alleged CIA
Involvement

1. On 3 November 1970, T. Preston HENDRICK, Washington,
D. C. District Manager, Dun and Bradstreet, Inc., (DOD Contract

61-88 ML), extremely valuable WFO information source, contacted
Special Agee | by telephone and said he had a
matter which he thought, in the interest of national security, we possibly

 

~ might be interested in looking into. He-briefly explained the problem

which had come to his attention from|Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta, Georgia
Office, and it was agreed that Special Agent{___rould meet with him
in his office the following day. py)

he attached xerox copies of an informal memo dated 20 October
rom D&B's Atlanta, Georgia Office, Subject: Environmental

Industries, Inc. (Exhibit 1); a D&B Business Information Report dated
9 September 1970 on Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs,
Georgia, representing a subsidiary of Environmental Industries, Washing-
ton, D. C. (Exhibit 2); and a ten page article from the August 1970 issue
of "Atlanta" Magazine (Exhibit 3), HENDRICK commented that this article
(Exhibit 3) has no by-line heading, and no mention of the author's name
and is written in such a manner as to imply an association between CIA
and the principal of Military Armament Corporation Mr. Mitchell L.
WERBELL IIL. .

: i : 2. On 4 November 1970, Mr. HENDRICK gave Special Agent
 

[totaase-ioor] ooo

a

 

 

 

 

REMARK, -
a GA Eth bea ees el

 

 

 

Dt an pre, T|
dy Poole Ken Levee
Cok,

 

_ £geM 1439 “o i"
ZIny

3. Mr. HENDRICK noted that the attached memorandum
from the D&B Atlanta Office (Exhibit 1) is self-explanatory, but
added that the Atlanta Office is receiving a lot of inquiries on both
of the companies. The D&B Report (Exhibit 2) is the first and only
such report yet produced by Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta Office. The
Dun & Bradstreet Washington, D. C. Office has had no other require-
ments for information on the local company, Environmental Industries,
Inc. However, the D&B Washington Office, in response to the D&B
Atlanta Office request for information, has so far ascertained only

 

Georgia.

4, Mr. HENDRICK said his first impression after the article
(Exhibit 3) was that the comments involving CIA "were ridiculous, pre-
posterous, and were written by a nut who is as nutty as Mitchell L.
WERBELL II seems to be"', however, as a citizen he al Agen |
§

- did not want to take any chances and decided to call Special Agen

HENDRICK also thought it conceivable that fraud mi;
possibly be’involved, but indicated that he has not mentioned this matter
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

5. Mr, HENDRICK said that at some point he will have to
respond to Atlanta's request for information on Environmental Industries,
Inc. either by saying the Washington Office is not going to write a report
or stating an opinion that the information in the ‘'Atlanta'' Magazine article

completely ridiculous. Mr. HENDRICK indicated to Special Agent
that if at all possible he would appreciate some guidelines - if
nothing more than sending the D&B Atlanta Office a xerox copy of the
National Security Agency Act and CIA Mission as described in the United
States Government Manual or some other public document. HENDRICK
made it clear he was passing all above information to us on a completely
informal unofficial basis and indicated he realized it is possible confirma-
tion or denial of implied CIA interest may not be possible.

 

o
f

eg tet © MMe

ole fk.
EDMUND X. KLIP \
Special Agent in Charge
74-0000

 

‘ Dun& Bradstreet, Inc. (INTER-OFFICE MEMO ‘ Ai. - CHECK MERE me

  

orrica ot Re Pact 1G Present FROM orrice bt

DEFT, OR INDIVIOUAL

suesect » Essence Tenses Tae a

     
  

SIGNATURE

  

Ocs 26,990

 

 
 

— : ae
ree Pouwaencs, tba Wrcern 2 te Ses HAoum hy ~

MM ATKLieEL To We \2PvG ueATeMeE® ins Wane, wD.

  
 
   

foro UTS SLIAS 1D Ace TA Damencars Cone AEA De o a078 44D porn

BACK BACK
mae ek SRAWES Ga, :

JR_ont SSURCE CF INFEaMATION FAL eed

 

TAT THAT a Vil Cyne

 

a iw LS Wy ATEMAYN wana Lops aewetow AN é £

A SUBS pity OF  AweTAeR VN divULGe a CoOnctRnf AT THAT Loca~

 

BvaurcaAron

 

Fes ost Osa eee
eee
rr
—_— eee

19L-42 (681007) iw) CONTINUED ON REVERGE
