13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
March 22, 1995

Page 3

(b)

()

(d)

(e)

’ entities with any responsibilities for surveilling, conducting operations

with respect to, or engaging in liaison with any pro-Castro groups (e.g,
Fair Play for Cuba Committee) or anti-Castro groups (e.g., Alpha-66,
DRE, JURE, etc.).

The names and affiliations of all CIA personnel responsible for liaison
with the Warren Commission, the House Select Committee on
Assassinations, the House Select Committee on Intelligence of the 94th
Congress (the “Pike Committee"); the Senate Select Committee to Study
Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (the
“Church Committee"), and the Commission on CIA Activities within the
United States (the “Rockefeller Commission’).

All manuals, handbooks, memoranda, or guides explaining:

(i) _ the organizational structure and division of responsibilities within
CIA for the years 1958-68 and 1975-79;

(ii) _ the filing systems or filing procedures for the entities identified in
(a) above; and

(iii). guidelines for drafting memoranda or completing forms.

Examples of the type of documents we are seeking include the
Clandestine Services Instruction (CSI), the Clandestine Services Handbook
(CSHB), and the Directorate of Operations Handbook (DOHB).

Copies of the instructions, guidelines, and other materials used by your
reviewers-in the review process. Barry Harrelson has already provided
some — if not all — of these materials to Jeremy Gunn.

A list or lists of cryptonyms, digraphs, codes, pseudonyms, numericals,
file identifications, or other identifications appearing in the assassination
records (to the extent that such a list or lists have been or could readily
be created).

To the extent that these materials are security classified, we will take all necessary
precautions to protect them.
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
March 22, 1995
Page 4

I would like to. thank you again for your cooperation. Please do not hesitate to
contact me or Jeremy Gunn for any clarification regarding these requests.
Sincerely yours, |

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

cc: Barry Harrelson
T. Jeremy Gunn
File 4.20.4-1
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
March 22, 1995

~ Special Task Force Operations

~  Counterintelligence Staff (DDP/CI

- Soviet Russia Division (DDP/SR)

- Foreign Intelligence Staff (DDP/FI)

- Technical Services Division (DDP/TSD)
— Records Integration Division (DDP/RID)
- Division D

— Western Europe Division (WE);

Second, the Directorate of Support (DDS or DD/S) including:
— Office of Security (DDS/OS) (including Security Research Section);

Third, the Directorate of Intelligence (DDI or DD/T) including:
— National Photographic Interpretation Center (DDI/NPIC)
— Office of Operations (DDI/OO)
~ Domestic Contacts Division including all DCD bases in Louisiana,
Florida, and Texas;

Fourth, the Directorate of Research (DDR or DD/R) including:
~ Special Projects Branch
~ Technical Services Division;

Fifth, CIA stations in
- Mexico City (1960-68 only)
- Miami JMWAVE)
— other stations that we will discuss orally;

Sixth, the Inspector General;

Seventh, the Office of the General Counsel;

Eighth, to the extent not otherwise included above, any entities with .
responsibility for liaison or communications with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on matters pertaining to intelligence or

counterintelligence? and

Ninth, any other offices, task forces, units, programs, persons, or other

"If there were persons (rather than entities) tasked with the responsibility for
such liaisons with the FBI, please identify those individuals.
13-00000

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW 0 2nd Floor O Washington, DC 20530

March 22, 1995

Mr. John Pereira

Director ;

Historical Review Group CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Center for the Study of {intelligence DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
Central Intelligence Agency. . RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
Washington, D.C. 20505 IN THIS DOCUMENT

RE: ARRB Additional Information Request No. CIA-1

Dear John: . ,

I would like to thank you and your staff for your assistance and cooperation during
our start-up phase. I trust that this bodes well for our work together during the
upcoming years.

In order to facilitate and coordinate our efforts, I will be sending to you, from time-
to-time, requests for additional information and records to facilitate the completion of
the ARRB's responsibilities under the JFK Act. We will be numbering these requests,
as shown above, to help us track our queries and your responses. Please do not
hesitate to contact me or Jeremy Gunn if our requests are insufficiently clear or if
they are unduly burdensome.

For our first request, we ask that you make available the following items:

(a) | Comprehensive organizational charts (or the best available substitutes)
of the following entities for the years 1958-1968:'

First, the Directorate of Plans (DDP or DD/P) including:

-- Western Hemisphere Division (DDP/WH)
- Special Affairs Staff (DDP/SAS)
— Task Force W

"We are of course aware that the names, organizational structure, and reporting
relationships of the entities identified below have changed over time. We have listed some
divisions, offices, and staffs in order to facilitate the identification of organizational charts. If

the Agency refers or referred to these entities by any other names or acronyms, we would of

course intend our request to include those other names or acronyms.

Telephone: (202) 724-0088 O Facsimile: (202) 724-0457
13-00000

SUBJECT: Appointment of Directorate Focal Points
for JFK Assassination Board Requests

DCI/CST/HRG/JPereira:bas/x30373/ (30 Mar 95)
Distribution:

Original - DDA

Original - DDI

Original - DDO

Original - DDS&T

- Executive Registry
ExDir
- D/CSI
- C/HRG

BERR he
'

ADMINTSPRATIVE = INTERNAT USE-ONL—
13-00000

Attachment
ewe

 

Fo met eeee the lebesaabranirnadibenvba athlete

 
ADMINISPRATIVE “INTERNAL -USE- ONLY

SUBJECT: Appointment of Directorate Focal Points
for JFK Assassination Board Requests (AIUO)

DCI /CSI/HRG/JPereira:bas/x30373) (30 Mar 95)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - Executive Registry
1 - D/cst
1 ~ C/HRG

AD ONLY
104-10337-10004
?

.-
F

 

CSI-0324/95
30 March 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

VIA: Director, Center for the Study of
Intelligence
FROM: John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: Appointment of Directorate Focal Points
for JFK Assassination Board Requests (AIUO)

_1. Action Requested: It is recommended that you request
the Directorates to appoint focal point officers for purposes of
responding to requests from the (President Kennedy) Assassination
Records Review Board. (AIUO)

2. Background: President Clinton appointed the Board to
oversee the release of records related to both the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigations into the assassination.
The Board has forwarded to us the first (attached) of what are
likely to be many requests for additional information from CIA
records. The Board will not complete its work until late 1997
at the earliest. (AIUO)

The Historical Review Group (HRG) has reviewed more than
400,000 pages of JFK-related records, most of which were contained
in the “sequestered records” that were collected for the House
Assassination Committee's investigation and in the Oswald 201 file.
Up to now, no new searches have been required. Now that the Board
has begun to generate requests for additional information, the
Agency needs to create a mechanism for processing the requests and
for tasking components to conduct records searches. (AIUO)

3. Recommendation: That you request each Directorate to
appoint a focal point to work with HRG as the principal liaison
with the Board, and that you name someone to perform the same
function for the DCI Area. Attached is a proposed memorandum
for your signature. (AIUO)

 

Attachments:
A. ARRB Request No. CIA-1
B. Proposed Memorandum

ADMENESTRATIVE———FNPERNAL—USE_ONLY

_ADMENEGERATIVE’=—INTERNAL USE ONLY . . i
13;00000

_ ADMINISTRATIVE. INTERNAL USEONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Appointment of Directorate Focal Points for
JFK Assassination Board Requests
FROM: Leo Hazlewood
Executive Director

6 April 1995

>
rans)
Bre Ta |
building) NRTALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
recaveo lrorw, as) | to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

* EA/EXDIR
(TD55 ‘OHB

 

 

 

 

 

vs 610 (EF) “Eston ® A NEY
13-00000

ER 95-8097
6 April 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Administration
Deputy Director for Intelligence
Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Science and Technology
Administrative Officer, DCI

FROM: Executive Director

SUBJECT: Appointment of Directorate Focal Points
for JFK Assassination Board Requests

1. I would like each of you to appoint a focal point
officer for your Directorate who would be responsible for
responding to requests for information from the (President
Kennedy) Assassination Records Review Board. {AIUO)

2. The Agency has received the first (attached) of what
are likely to be many requests from the Board for information
related to the assassination of President Kennedy and to the
investigations into the assassination. Up to now, the Board
has focused on the "sequestered" records CIA had collected
for the House Assassination Committee's investigation and
documents that had been part of the Oswald 201 file. It is
expected that the new requests will require records searches
to be done for additional information. (AIUO)

3. The Historical Review Group (HRG) of the Center for
the Study of Intelligence (CSI), which has been the Agency's
principal liaison with the JFK Board, will continue in that
role. HRG will receive requests from the Board, and then
forward them to the Directorate focal points for action.
Responses from the Directorates will be coordinated by HRG,
which will make the responses available to the Board. (AIUO)

4. Please provide the name of your focal point officer to
John Pereira, Chief, HRG (x8 0373>secure) by 13 April. (ATIUO)

Fertlenfound

Lec Hazlewood

Attachment

ADM =

 
