. noted-that. at.no.time did_any of. the. above-named agents solicit ..

-

LO BE OPE HED BY ADDRESS -CLOY

District Field Office
11 March 1964

IQMORALDUM FOR: Headquarters

 

 

SURJECT 3

R202 G2 SD/1

i. " Reference in made to Yoadquartern Letter of assignment in
this case dated 4 Mareh 196h.

2, During the period 20-28 Fobenary 1064, while CUBI! scl vas
under the protective custedy of Special. Agents Stanley C. LACH, .
George R. BREWER and Alived B. NcGARRACHY, SUPJECT voluntarily
Nurniched Information concerning his background and activitics,

“as well as other information of operational interest, the substance

of which is cet forth in the succeeding paragraphs. It is to be

 

any of this infornmrtion or mike. Laguir tes of the SUBJECT regarding *
any of the matters discussed by him. SURIECT spontaneously related
these Ineidents In casual conversation duving leisure periods ond :
vhile enroute. with the agents to and from places of entertainment ete.
Iu most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompted the.
SUBJECT to isaake comments relative to these mitters. Following is

a summarization of this informations

SFORLS, _ HOBBIES KS

(a) On 20 February 196) SUDIEGE disclosed that he enjoys ‘the

' following eporta: football, hockey and biLLiards.

VORSIGH GRAVEL - \

. gum ly ot the
(b) Te also revealed that he noo previously Lsen in theUnited

States while enroute to Cuba, Venevuzla and other Intin Anerican

eombries. é has ct one tine or another during hio service with the

KeB visited ond worked on operational projects for the Soviet Union

in practically oll of the countries of Fuvope; however, he hos never

‘SECRET
 

 

anid | _

traveled to the Far Bust, ex ceept while handling on agent who was
netive against the Japanece. Ne (SURTUCT) stayed ta the Kurile
Islands vhich are within sight of Jsyan. This vas tn 19) ye le
said that he wag acbive in the picking up of agents by plane and
chip in this arca. ; '

PAUILY BACKGROUND

- (ce) In the latter part of the evening on this came date,
20 “Fobraany 1964, tha SUBJECE stated that his fathers vas a mexiber’
‘of the Communist Contral Committee , one of the fires merbers of |
the Commmiset “Farty, and that he hed great respect for his Lather.
The EULJECT also lndicated that his father was a ‘shipbuilder and
later became one of the first to organize and set uy the Russtan
-fboule Energy Plant. It was Curing this latter oebivity that he
(the SUBJECT's father) end three other officiols cane in contact,
with radiation, which a¥fected his futher's liver ond a few years
Jater ot the age of 54 his father died of cancer. The CUBINCT
went on to etate thet his fether, being a very proaincnt Comamist,
vas given treatment for this cancer in a epeecial hospitel which is
located in the hillé outside of the city of Moscow, and during his | >:
tenure in this hospital the fantly resided with his father. Shey 7
had five room living quarters beside the room in which nis fathey
was confined.: This privilere, he enid, is only given to the especially
prominent VIPs of the Comminist Party, indicating that his feather was |
one of the top men in the Commnist Farty.

LOLTTARY, AC AC RIVITY.

(a) The SUBJECT revealed that in 19h9, at the age of 16, he was -
a Navol Cadet. He was cnliled into the rervice before graduubing from
: what ds ovr equivalent of a high school. Ne had taken yart in the
fighting in the Black Sea Arca vhere he deseribed hend-to-hand combat
with Germans, claimed he was wounded, and because of his bravery he
vas avarded the Sovict Order Medal ana the Order of Ctalin. The CUnJEC?
stated this was unusual for a person of his age and gained hin great
respect. At the end of the war he had no more desive for military life
although his superiors tried to keep him in the military. Instead, he
wont for four years to the Institute of Foreign Nelntions and learned
the Engliech languages Upon graduation, a mom ene 3e hin and told hina
_ thet he had a job lincd up for him. He stated thet this actually was —
more like being ordered to take this porticnlar Jor vhich tuned cut

 

SECRET

 

cee ne mc een eee rare a A RAE
# oe . i “ ;

SoG gpg

fe62 622

OSWALD's case was not ‘the same as other Americans in Russia because
he was considered not normal and he was not considered a defector as
were MARTIN and MITCHELL. ,

SUBJECT heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.
Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate to the Second Main
Directorate. Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

-he had tried suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photographs and he said he had sen a
picture of Marina OSWALD in a magizine.

A long list of names was read and shown to SUBJECT but he failed
to identify any of them. Many of the nunes were of people in Minsk.

"JIB: jms

 

. :
13-00000°

 

#262 622

     
    
  
   
    
    

' The American Embassy was not informed of his suicide attempt becausé - oe
he 1 vas going to leave the country and he: was Rot. an important person. a

While OSWALD was in Minsk he received a stipend from the Red Cross.

' KGB had information on Marina OSWALD only after she announced her :
intention to marry him. A record check, neighborhood, and employment
check on her showed that she was a simple, normal, not clever person, ~

‘and she was not in the Young Communist League because she did not pay :
her dues. Some investigative reports said she was Stupid. Soa a

“6B aia not consider using her in any capacity. . a

 

_ Sie has an ‘uncle whe isa | Meutenant CoLonel. in ‘the Minsk, militia. 7

She mst be. illegitimate becatise she does” not use. or. now her father! s-
namie... -2.. . : 1 : .

 

The only surveillance ever pat on | OSWALD ‘was an n agent and there was.
never any on Maring.° ; . See SR

 

" After their marriage her pay was increased to impress ‘the foreiguer wa
she married. : i :

  

‘she - was not asked to stay in Russia after marriage because he was ;
to leave and Russians believe 'a husband and wife should be together Lo
(unless one is a high level person). ; .

.

 

" Neither of the OSWALDs got any briefing or - instructions before oe
leaving Moscow. . ; was a
In addition to KRUZNOF and the SUBJECT, TUBAS. ‘and MOSHKOV were. wee
the KGB Agents in Moscow who knew of the OSWALD case before the -..
assassination. A Department Chief, JOMOKOV, and five other KGB Case ,
Officers knew’ of the case after the assassination.

KGB considered OSWALD an American citizen because he had een ,
denied Soviet citizenship. :

KGB did not know any of OSWALD's personal contacts in, Russia,

* Sone of the Tatourist people OSWALD dealt with 1 were kc Agents .
or contacts. _. . ;

  
fe62 622 «5 August 1964

Week of 27 - 31 July 1964

Interrogation on 27 July 1964 ran from 1334 to 1828 hours. With
the exception of social amenities and a review of the notes SUBJNCT had
made since his last interview with the Case Officer, the interrogation
consisted of a review of the OSWALD case. It was br3ed on a verbatim
transcript the Case Officer had typed from the 3 July 1964 tape. The
Case Officer (Thomas RYAN) questioned SUBJECT on why KGB did not do
certain things such as run an investigation of OSWALD, check into his
Marine experience, etc. : ;

On 29 July 1964 (a.m.) the doctor made his weekly examination of
the SUBJECT. SUBJECT gave a brief run-down of his personal life before
his father died in 1958, s4id he was being kept in confinement because
he is trying to help us and said we are still taking pictures of him but .
the clicking has become quieter.

On_29_July..1964 interrogation ran from'1530 hours to 1802 hours.

‘The OSWALD case was discussed again and the Case-Officer' started a... +

discussion on how people obtain and keep guns in their homes in Russia.
He also wanted, to reconcile the fact that SUBJECT at one time stated
OSWALD was a poor shot but on another occasion said he was a good marksman.

The Case Officer then went into a.discussion of a Paris based, American,
U. S. Government employee who was recruited by the KGB. This individual was
still in Paris in January. 1964. He would make docwnents available to KGB so
they could be photographed and returned to the vault on the same day.
SUBJECT had no identifying data on this American. The discussion concerned
the American's contacts, station location, travel routes, ete.

On 31 July 1964 interrogation started at 1/416 hours. Questions and
discussion concerned the Intourist Organization and the extent to which
it serves as a cover for KGB people, KGB war cmergency plans, and the
extent to which these plans were activated at the time of the U. 5. /Cuban
Crisis. .

The last item discussed was the ODMSSA case. ODFSSA is the code name
for an agent named who was scheduled to go to Tokyo in April 1964.

Interrogation concluded at 1824 hours.

JIB: jns

SEORET

-l-

 

 
oe Pa 1963.

  
  
    
 

- The Case Officer ‘then started discussing the case of @ 2 Bulgarian,’ .
. GIORGIEV, who was arrested by the Bulgarians in Moscow in 1963. SUBJECT -. :
tained his information on this case from SHERAPIN and Alexander PAPOVICH

le SUBJECT said, GIORGIEV was invited to Moscow in 1963 at the suggestion
‘of the Bulgarian MVD. He was settled in the Metropole Hotel and kept ©
under TV surveillance. While he was in Moscow his roams in Bulgaria ~
. were searched and evidence was found (radio) which was sufficient for -
_the Deputy Chief of the Bulgarian MVD to go to Moscow, arrest him and
return hin “to Bulgaria ‘for questioning and trial or  gourt. martial. ' :

  

. , SUBJECT vent to Bulgaria in 1961 to help them on American. cases.”
: He stated there was no suspicion of GIORGIEV-at that time. GIORGIEV
-"- had worked in the United States and was believed to have been recruited
pat that time... a hoe . : wy Le

   

‘the Bulgarians, on ‘confronting GIORGIEV in 1 the » Metropole Hotel,
said, "George DUVAL, you! re under arrest". ; oo 7

_ At this point the interview ended and SUBJECT asked the Case Officer we
- “to congratulate the boys'and wish them all a good holiday for hin. He, aan
-- @id this when the Case Officer said he aid not think be would be back -

on 3 July.

|. Friday, 3.3% ~- The Case orticer wanted to discuss the KCB ” “8
involvement in the, OSWALD case. : ce . as

 

. . SUBJECT. said he did not know that ‘OSWALD went to Moscow from Helsinki ;

. but that OSWALD's visa application was processed in the normal manner of
and. KGB had ‘a copy of the visa application. Russian Embassies, since — my
1960; have. authority to issue . visas in three to five days after application. an a

OSWALD applied orally;. and later in writing, for ‘Soviet. Citizenship. | :
A copy of the written request went to KGB. A copy of this request was —
. sent. to. the Supreme, Soviet after OSWALD slashed his wrists.

. KGB studied reports on OSWALD prepared by Case ‘Officer KRUZNOF and
- decided OSWALD was not normal so he was of no interest to KGB and was
not considered desirable for Soviet citizenship. His file was sent to
Minsk because he was to live and work in Minsk.

  
Geng
6 July 1964 Report

On 2 July Mssrs. NORTE, ‘WESTRELL ond BENNETT visited the_site.
The present air conditioning situation is satisfactory. (Mr.

 

 

 

_ arrived at noon in a "panic", had to speak to Subject immediately and.

did so until 1345 hours , Giscussion a Norman Mihailevich BORODIN
(phonetic) and his family. Whilel__iwas there SR Division
called and pressed the matter even harder, [| then returned to
Headquarters and came back to the site again at about 1645 hours. .He
expects to remdin about Shours.

On 3 July an interrogation of Subject by RYAN look place from
12307 to 1530 hours. Dis¢ussion dealt with the OSWALD case.

On 4-5 July all custodial precedures were routine. Subject did
try to "bum" a cigarette from a DFO man n (Subject is’ getting smokes
during interrogation sessions).

Division doesn't plan to visit Subject on 6 July according to

“Jatest reports. ;

8 July 1964 Report. .

Loom

   

No visitors at the site on 7 July. : Subject ate all meals, was
given @ bath in the evening. All custodial procedures normal and
routine. ,

13 July 1964 Report

Custodial procedures were routine Juring the weekend of 11-12 July.

1b July 1964 Report

On 13 dilly Case Officer interrogated the Subject from
1530 hours to 1720 hours (subjects= of discussion unknown). All -
custodial procedures routine and normal. .

No case officer visits to the site are expected today.

SHORE

 
 

104-10429-10085

aa

 

29 October 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group

“SUBJECT ‘+ Documents Relating to the Kennedy
Assassination

1. Ih response to your request, the undersigned and
Michael E. Schneeberger reviewed the eightcen volumes of
covert seciirity file #262 622 relating to the custodial
handling of Yuriy Nosenko. In addition to the eightecn
volumes, various unnumbered files relating to site plans
for the various safe sites used in this case and adminis-
trative files relating to expenses incurred and other '
miscellaneous items were also reviewed. : 4

2. As a result of these reviews, the attached documents +
were located which make mention of Noscenko's being debricfed
concerning Lee Harvey Oswald. Additionally, a memorandum .

-dated.11 March..1964 from the District Field Office (DFO) was _
also located which gives a- summary of information which _ .
Nosenko provided to DFO personnel during casual conversation. H
One of the items in this memorandum is the lengthy discussion
of Nosenko' s knowledge of Oswald.

Vas at a at f/Y 2 PILL A ft Te
Riymond M. Réardon
Security Analysis Group

Atts

(ASS- (OG | 7

’ ‘Document Number 1 =o =o,

 

for FOIA Review on MAR 1977

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994

SeChey

at-ensifeemd es entry ne ote
Fer o3s Lee) gs wey we. (208
C erga ¢

27 July 1964 Report —

No visitors to the site over the weekend. Subject has been avidly
writing and reading, smoking about a pack of cigarettes per day. All
custodial procedures routine.

On_-27 July 196, ease officer RYAN interviewed Subject from 1330
to 1830 hours, discussing OSYATD case. Subject had written on many
sheets ¢ paper, mostly answers to questiens put to him by the case
officers. RYAN advised that one of these papers was 2 lengthy, letter —

from Subject to Pete (BAGIEY), although the contents were not known

to RYAN yet.

' Subject was given a . book entitled, "Domocracy in Unions" yes- °
terday. No visitors are expected on 28 July, although it is anticipated
that both the Doctor and RYAN will come to the site tomorrow (29 July).
Subject is in good spirits.

Custodial procedures arerormal and voutine.

At the request of os/ LOG, Tom RYAN was requested to initiate action
with sn/DOB to provide some relief for the cook. Emma has been working
a 6 day week since early April with Ed SANNER's wife filling in the
seventh day.. RYAN was requested to obtain the services of a cook and
a helper to work at least 2 days, a week, und no more than 3 Gays RYAN

-will advise.

29 July 1964 Report

No visitors to site on 28 July. Subject given bath in evening.
All site custodial procedures routine.

30 July 196% Report \

On 29 July the Doctor visited Subject from 1015 to 1115 hours.
lie pronounced Subject to be in good condition, although Gubject still
claims we are taking pictures of him. ‘The Doctor reecrmmended no
changes in routine. .

Sth Ga

ee es ee ees ee eeeree e con eeeee cee eee ee eee
woe con

30 July 1964 Report

Case Officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1530 to 1800 hours,
_29 July. The discussion concerned the OSWALD case, the method (s)
by which private citizens in USSR get firearms and training and they
talked about some Americans recruited in Paris for the KGR.

All custodial procedures routine ard normal,

31 July. 1964. Report

On 30 July 1964, all custodial procedures were routine and normal.
Case officer is expected to come to the site on 31 July 1LO6h.

. 3 August 1964 Report

. On 31 July 1964 case officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1/00:
to 1600 hours. They discussed "Intourist", KGB personalities, USSR
‘war plans and KGB activities during the "Cuban Crisis". Subject Hill -
‘believes we are taking pictures of hin. . . : :

- At 2015 Subject came to the door of- his room, said he wanted to

talk. In effect, he wanted to get something off his chest. He said
‘he could talk because he knew the cameras and recorders were not

operative at that. hour. He launched into a monologue about his mother,
father, sister, brother and uncle. Became very emotional, saying that
he was misunderstood, that he really wants to remain in the US. Spoke
of his KGB work, recruitment and techniques. Finally at O05 hours,: |
1 August, he went to bed. b

Remainder of 1 August was uneventful. Sunday 2 August also quict.

All custodial procedures roubine.

SECRET

 

 
