 

 

104-10167-10080

Office Memorandum

To

SURJECE : ‘Tony Verora

 

_ Mr. Varera wes the

SEC

= C/#E/OPS

z » Droller le v

1. I wwlerstand that the question of om rest $900 rer nonth.
subsidy to Mr. Varona has came up Zor discuzsion recently. “he
following might be usefil to you 25 backerc. grou infomation.

"4 i

2. Vaxgee. ari in the Urited ‘States om cr abort § Mey 1960
and saw veo y May of that year. De this 9 May i
meeting end 2 meetins, of tee following iezy tervee: the seder-O3 :
Signed and Varcra, the latter alloiel reveateily to tH fect taat he
bed been pronised in Eavenz 9) for his

operation] plens but also surrort Yaron
reiterated that he wes absolutely bre she and was essential that he
Pere some ireose fram same source. On 12 lay SG, Varora seq

   

 

 

 

-alone end egain mode e ritech for sone yersonei money. On or asout

20 May, the question es Ww waewoer or nev ve should aid Vaeror :

under the teble, so to syeac, was reise’ here: in Zeedquarters vith ‘oe

Mr. Bsterlize. It vas ézei3ed to
2 su Varena hed requested. Gui of
$200 to his cheuffeur/oedy guard. Fre it my be vell to
recall thet the raticnale for this deci sich at that tine wes that :
y persca #2 rey figure of the centralised
anti-Cestro organizatioc we were to form. As of 1 June 1950 and up i
through Rovenber ol that year, Verone wes raid 2X6 per mouth by
"ESSD®R check.” From Screnber 160 through March 1961, Varota was :
paid directly ty Mr. Eos Hunt in Miext ic cash. April and May 1962!
payments vere zade once again cy “EERIER checs” fron Headeuerters. .
Ko yeynents nave teen maze for the montis ef Cune cr July 1951. tecause}
it was felt that with Hiro Caricosa’s assuaed leadership position it 4
would be umvise end vertaps unnecessary to coxtinue them * “crivate a
peynects’, vbich -- ty the wy -- were in edit sion to e salary Yarcna j

]

 
 
 
 

 

      

   

3. Yaron seexs to be hard pressed for money at this tine, especially.
- since he is now separated fron his wife uho, as I understand, controls

his checking account. q

&. As of 3 July 1951, I ws of the opinion thit we should not pay :
Varona anything more under the teble, tut in view of the Special Group)
decision, if I am correctly inforsed, of encouraging our dealings withj
mumerous Cuban groups and personalities, it sisht te wise to xeep in i
touch vith Varenn for sose tine asd say bin sone ressonable ancunt ‘
a8 mothing cesents friendships better than acozy.:: :

SECRET

 

 

 

 

™.

\

“
