 

     
 
    

 

"Se ite
Xe io

. 3. Daring our seating (19 Seytecier 1962) fr. Waterthy sabed us Af ou7
Ageneay eculd assist hia organisation in tie puradee of @ oubmarinc, Thereupon
Mr, MoGerthy explained that ho and tho delegate of the CRO in How York Oity hove
Govised tha folleving plan for conatal sabotage 18 Gubst

 

r : szin divers cr frogen whe,
b saisisad, Vili conduct sabotage to oom: or
9 fa Guibas.

‘Bavena « torvo Gastle Unooatag shive elev acm to coed pilot boats
: Co a$ Mere Castle « obisetivar sabotage to thoes
‘ahina 1f they carry eAlitery oquiganut, ote.)

Bo. ie Se a ae ee

    

 

e64 ¢hig

ato the. souvencntica Ly esavere Wate Bie ee fatery thon on propes
ter more Ba stated that his brother would not be port of the plan because
bs (MeCertny) @oca mot anintain direct contac’ with hia. Bs.adéed, however, =
Sot to to currently prozering © onto throngh which bo can communicate vith’ ente
wether, .

8. ‘geting yeremne to carry, ot es opartion, Monrthy ern “thet the
good know

S

a

 

Kea rioters la estate re

 
 

(toa-ozge-oas0]

wy

LOY) 8230904)
ONES A 1H

  

“Bee

; Lo tt va 41
Guief, Contact Division BR Septecber 1962
SSSA s Bayport Breach
Guief, Bosten Office en

Me 0s 19 Beptectier 1960' to, tere exatacted by Hr, Gladotons MeCarthy,
~ liww Tagland Goerotary far Use Ravolitionary Gomotl of Cube (Gomer

» Bevalutiensrie Bs Cubs @his exile Cuban orgentsation was forwerly know
. ao the Benssratic Revolutionary Front of Guba. We bod contacted McCarthy, an
eter ta explore his ¥PI potential on Cubana offairc,
iate gSquiity presedurce vero followd an4 secarity

 

 

| AS that tea the
yeourds .

appropr.
sabsequently : Amatentes ‘ekat ths vat hea Bo edjestion te or interregstion
of tha ephjest..

  
     
 
  
  

6 demary 1911, Boreeos, Griente, Guba

rime tne ict tan 3 fag ty Py at Hinei International

}s_Broatl ins 6 ee
Bia Bia aottor 4o livieg

   

* Oanediaa Bask of
Boited Fruit Coxpasy ‘{(omntrad Fes

 
 

 

n We quarriod MeOarthy as to tho Longarenge objectives of his plea, in

- other words that dose ‘the C29 hope to Sccomplish, His angwor wos, “The Cubsa

people oced to have their confidence restered, They nood semsthing to hope far.
in ‘the-U3end fod] that tha 18 will do nothing for thety —
& paosed south to mouth, Bush an opereticn
“the jmoylsramtbine to live fer, Tn cola .
r eoncludedouwregardless of the
lone met ect. now, How

9. Ver OdsA(9) reais please esa Bootes 21195.

 

 

 

 

CUM -PU

 
