74-0000

fp

 

<A ; i, . . ur RA+r ke ROAD @
BoLynrso - : sme | DRAINAGE CAWALS om
= Roaabds =
@ Curry.

ce) Vitus A @E oo
da
=e

   

RAnway STATION =
Se os . ee ; CLOSE2 ROAD «
iE rare by informants end subritted to en intermédiate source Aroges, Sears z 72 60,000, —

" SEBTCH SHOWING THE LOCATION OP TEE
_ BREWER = ATRFTELD :

 

Po SECRET | | he

ee en ee cream ae ee eae cane eet etme RMI ty Oe oo

 

 
 

SO

SERARER

a
3

    

 

a
Fa
5

RRR

 

: Mata runaye
‘Loa points on: runway for + dasnags porporese

  
 

‘Sewer  gratons

“Draimiga conse

‘Covered diteh into ehich drainage cenol eaptios. :
Open ditchen’ which cerry off drainage tomexd Eolyareke.
Jerking area for atgerafte :

Heed tozard Bernat.
Varigus intidings
Hangera

Vacant field

Diatenco betwoon runmay and hargeis--~500 neterde
Light polea with flood lights.
Transfornoy oub-atations

Sketch of blocko used in runway ocastruction; each 197 om long, 20 ca thidks
fkoten showing construction doteilag tarmed earth, , sana io ea thick); tar

paper; sonesté blocks cnd ter.

SECRET

  

 

 
   
 
 

 

oo ie

 

Ee
Ps
Go
Ho

ROGAN CI Bier ne A nn a See mt ft + mene ment ne we oe

1

 

Ce ge

. . BCT 4

SHOVING, LOCATION OF
BODE AIRFIELD

 

de Brufoval barracks
8 Be “Kean asc Coaslesary
“Ga Hoadgvorters Trudovek battelicay Office

‘Loe ongi.nears and tedchnionl pereonntle

De Gormyated sheet netal hangara 50 neters
long, 20 noters wide and 15 motory highs -

wintot tarracka for Trudovake
Proposed alte for kitchen ond garege
Storage aroa for canent

tuard Poot

SECRED

  
  
 

   
 
  

Tho proparod cpsoos for blocks wero. placed under water from four.to alx days prior

to pouring acrarete, in order ta dota pal any alabegee. In forming the gattercs, ‘th

_ docks ‘arowid a gontral block tides had coskl oraske, dat this Pooky dou

- pastors -gozolUimes had & gap “up to y ad’ 4
the botins vith tar paper, and alts thi

large orsoke woro thes filled the Fost

‘piers tore wasd and divided. into tre groves, :
(Zavod), with vach ugod in wlteracte’ ares 10-yuiwy. cro; reséode “Towoirds the en:
hevever, in ordsr to axpacite. th nishing ee the field, thirty mixers were uted, -
which ware divided into. four groups and-one weaerva grovpe » The eastera.end of the:
rummy wae bogim first, and from eagterm md to the midway sork until the “gropertioa
and quality’of material were: ‘etrlotly - dharod: toe . Hqwever, great-ditfoultr a”
maoutered in obtaining tha anount and ise of gravel” needed) age result tha eon
atrustian of the last half was not up. to: gtandard, . :

 

     
   
    
  
 

  

  
 
  

 

ok | vure somplotely ar :
the mA wth, tere a :

 
 
  
  
 

 

r 309 Sn the beg! aning, ning-cong

 

 

il. Up. wath) 22 Deoenber isso. no permanent dng tal letione. had been build or started.”
and plane for such futuro sonstruction, both sbovaground and milorgrowid, are ceknown,

22 Attached ‘ave threo shetohod shoring the loeation ‘of tha eirfistd’ ane wartoue ¥
sonntruotioa details, respeotively. a

25. ALL coordinates are GSCS 1,250,090 Serleg. Dulgarlae -

 

4
F
>
?
i

 

SECRET
 

 

an ar
he baring eo oarly pe my a wae: bopus.ecr the Boe” V airfield Loaited tage!
“eilomstary aouthises of Sho Besner railiay station oa the Flovalvefartol line. Por Ts

“8. Tho firat Trudovak- wilte brought. in to comaense work on the nirflold arcived 6. aprit

 

1

| AHIS ISS Sevatuaiéy latunldarionge, 2B.

 

Eertiter ‘ortantation, tha eirfiold ta coated ‘tores Gud oho half kilwnoters soutivest ¢ &

2 the villags of Boronr. (RB.G636), tro. cllomstere north of Yolyereko (R5 G2Z8), and —
tro anid one half idlerotsre couthaast af Bogadjik (23 6034). The alrfiold taht 1
Lsosted 700 cetera gouth of the railway Lines :

  

     

 

1960 end stayod thora until souplotion on 22 Lavemday 1950 of ths sunray. The LoLlotie
ing: units and their. approximate atrength were used ig the vengtruotion of the, aberialeg

Podelento S06 « G25 men
Podslonie 507 ~ <90 nen , ,

' Fodolenie 300 + 500 mn a : .
Podslenis $09 = 200 xen an ° . os
Fodolente 322 © 200 wen ‘ 7 . Ed

3. ‘Podelouts 30S and S07 were usad for mixing and pouring the concrete. ou the remy. |
Podelanie SOS was used in the etone quarry to the north of thy airfield. Podelenie SO ¢.
ano. the traneport Pydelente and their job was to furnish, drive and unload truuke,

narroy pace yoxst cure, and horseedram venialer, Podslenie 32] waa a teahnien]
Podclenio which inoludsd sngineers or spsolalists who tested tabd, enter, sonorete end

gay othsr olsnents ueed in the construotion of the aivfisid. Thars was one Jovint

saginaer and © amid group of about five Soviet spavinlista who worked on the abefield

av the beginning, and luter vicited the airfiold every tro or thrsa dayo, ‘thoro were

no bulgarian Air force officoro a¢ the rleld, out augh offiears did psy osanaional

vieits te abeerys the Progreso. of the Siolde .

nd

4. The Mold dn boing oonatruated primartly ou a Jot Cighter field. The mein runway

As €,500 notes Jong, with 160-moter parking gpsaes on aitker end, and is SO asters wides
Oa sither aids of tha rugray ore flat turf fielda wiioh van de used as auctilary runways
dn goad weathor. These oxtond along the entire len;th of the coussete nuwey and are
150 puters wide, Tho turf field ts the north of th? main muway iv orogeod by werdernye
wate® lsad te & planocd awtlliary concrete runway to be built da the future. The

_Gmenzione of thid plenned mavmy are not hicaa.

5S, Oa the aerthenat cida of ths airfield ava vight billcinga of a tongorary nature
which worse uged ta housd troops and equicnents

SECRET

  
14-00000

oO See

    

 
 
   
    
  

oan

6 The olautrieity for flood Lights cad ordinary lighting wa obteiaed fron Fonte +
Plocd itpats ware plasad on the tus rieuay to the north ef the main ruquay abou
waters from the sonorsts edge and sp2esd about. 8 astave aparte The: turare nold
‘the Tlocd lights were approxiaataly ten (10) soverr alghe - Tiere wore threacdlostr
cub=stations on the alrffold, along Wie gonorets runwey, and one cergioing the vari
temporary budldings and located in thetr abldrt, —-

Ze Thera was one Soviet officay and sovarnh Soviet otyidien workire tho.uged ‘a. power
6rill scar the Trudovek winter quarterse This drill eas similsr, but ona ovoh large!
soslo, tc w wol}, drill, and the Soviets told the Trudovwks ‘that they ware drilling for
waters There were good weter walls on tho airfield alroady and during the entire thine
of construction the Soviets drillud 4a the aaa hols continuoudly.- ithat Sher were ue
eriiling Cor la not knowae , . ao

a .
8 Tre concrete runway was cade up of the following elonsnts, after the aurfeoo earths
had baen rexoveds

Be A layer, of sifted uarthe +

 

ny Soa sand, 20 centdceters in depth watch vas tanped hy meshenioal weens, the on
gen sand was orought fren # bexoh one kilouster south of burges vtlled ;
“Svartal Pyaaachen", and was dug with a inegs eand shovel in use sinoa 1010, | -

 

Ge A layer of tar prpers :

ad “Canant dblooke, <0 asatineters thick, hexagenal in shaps, each aide being 1697
setera, dompoued of aund, (quantity vaknorn), three typos of gravel, (fine, -
radiun, end lurge), and 350 kilograne of cenant, all of which wea taxed with
eater in @ gonoratw mixer. The prepertions of ths graval are not knorn, bus . 5
tuey are dvogarcibed ad follows: .

Finee«gravol up to aud lnoludiag the aise of a pee
Hediuw-sito botwosn a walnut and an oge
Large--slre of Gn orange

Yhis gravel wong oalled covrosponding]y firat, svoond, and thisd "Sreotion",
WWo oudie astora of prepared concrete were used in sach dloake ¥

$e The usthed of opermtion used in acnatruating the ruuvay wos to Sirst dig out the
top ail Sroa the runway and veo collars over its entire length. ‘Two layora of send,
AZ cantinsters aaah, wero then poured on ead ws clostele "vibrator", bulgerian
menutncture "SLEROM™, with « 750 kilogyaue atriking powss, wae used to pound esol layor
ain, thas siving a 2Qweatinster thigimesa for an taitial 24 centizeterse The air
atris wac than sovored over oarplately with Jsoiegnated tar paper, after which the
engiseurs 2ost eacofully leid out tha pectarns to os majo with the conert blecla. The ’
aerant was poured into haxigonel] francs in eliernate cpacow, tion tanpod into the
fran; vith oc waodaa tenpos and evened off on the top wita @ seal] wocden Growel., tha
dios wes than ellowad to dry fron bstvaea asven end sight howe, until the ocnarate
solidified, The sices ef tht alternsts dry blooks wors ther covered with « single
Jeyos of tir papur antendiag from tho bottom 2f ths block to the top, and ths alte:ate
Spaasa weew shan Filled in the folleving dey, to fors u somplote pattamn of bleu.

ECRET
   
   

vay

(és Stefan Petrov Feltekey was bora 11 Layoh 1929, in Erani Pale (RF 4994).
aingle and prior te his ailitery service he lived at ome with his -father, -
nother, Velika, aud ais sister Karia, ajed-26 (now imprisoned dy. the State Sé jar
17 May and has not Seen heard from since): He finished hich school in. Plovdiv in 1949
and went to work as a laborér in a government automobile repair shop in Plovdiv, dn
5 April 1950 he was crafted into the Trudovaks and his militery service is identical
with the other tro. . .

He is

  
 
  

 

(6 During interrogation, all three men have scoops rated oxtremaly well and neve been.
able to give gcod concise information on the various projects where they ‘worked

   

 

  

 

 

se CREE
 

 

 

alpd

; [
| \Wrddovaks who deserted their unit working 4n the Balchik airfisid-and made their way
_ to Plovdiv and. to Gersoes) gk \
aoe 7: eel ~~
>
i.
{

 

 
   
  

+ ’

* RETURNTO CIA.

. . ly
a0 Mer pt ck und Use On vs
seat nNot Reproduce. -

© gezor Alrfield
)s >

  

Local Pile Ho;

 

 

' Dietribiation: - co ~ Ao
‘ ‘By copy to:

Se wash? Orally tos Oy.
2 = Habs] JUSIAG;, 1 - distGy 1 - Skely 1 = Slopmerdeapes ' Ty
l= Subjecty 1 = File cust ae b Kev
1 = Gary 2 = Gad as :2-4923 8 . y ir

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

   
 

. References:

 

Data, and Commente: «

nm contained in the atjachéd report was obtained—thpough interrogation
wMiikin, Zdravke Kostadipyy; ov and Stefan PotagyWeltekov, |

2, The reason for thitr desertion was to join an alleged illegal group working in the
mountaing south of Plovdiv, Their contact was a kaster Serjeant who resided in Plovdiv
and who was supposed to put them in contact with the illegal group, The Serceant became
frightened and refused to do go. From 7 May until 19 June the Group wandered around ~-
, Sho-mountains getting provisions from relatives and friends, Thay finally sould hold

; out no longer and entered Grence on 19 June 1951.
it \-
“4 N
| ' 3» Spas Todorov Raikin was born 26 October 1920, in Zelonikovo (RA 7729). He is '

' aingle and has two brothers, Patur and Stoyu, who are farmers in Zelenikovo, His
father, Todor Petkov Neikin, is living and is a farmer also. Subject finished the ° '
theological Seminary in Plovdiv and the Theolocical Paoulty in Sofia, He then teught
for one year on the Sofia Fsculty. fe.was then called up on & April 1450 for his
military service and assigned te the 309 Podslenie (Trudovak) at Sezmer airfield. on
22 December 1950, ha with his unit were transferred to the Bulohik airfield where they —
,becane Podelenie 6463. His desire to dssert was to join in the fight against communien
in the name of the Bulgarian Orthodox Churohe fmen he found it would be impossible to
do so insiae buljaria, -he decided to escape to Greece and join such a church froup
there, if such existed. In the event there was no existing ohuroh group, he desires
to form such a militant illegal church group to fight communien inside Bulreria,

4. Zdravko Kostadinov Demyanov was born 6 September 1928 in Belashtitea (RF 4692), He
is single and prior to his induction into the Trudovaks was a farmer on the family rarn
where he lived with his father, Kostadin Georjiev Damyanov, his mother, Stoina, ayed 45,
and his sisters, Yesilka aved 18, Stefka ued 3, enc brothers Yordan aged 16, Nikola,

and Zhivko. -The latter two voys are in grade school. Subjsot graauated from the Plovdiv
high schcol in 1949 and syent one yeer on tne fara orior to hig induction. He» served

in the sane unita ag Haikin ana was inducted the sane days

em ee ~y + Jah a

Clasaification - sae ban
eh File c° TD GOPY, . a4 ASSTAACY

 
  
  

Pas)
son we aap e SP ney
ran tose °F 88 ical : is pak. a ke- Satie ‘

 
del

 

 

 

cots Mie S apert mr ase

Subject; Construction of the Besser. aieriend Date of Info, 5 April to 28 Dede 3960
| Place Aoquireds Groave, athens 9° "Date Aogilived: 9 July 2662
Gvaluation: CoS ; : Dato of Report, 9 duly 1952 i

Sauzeoy fron 6 fairly reliable source those dnformnte sare Spas Todorov Ralkin,
Zdravko Koatudinoy Dazyanov and Stefen Potrov Paltekor, all former Jaborera’
on the airfield.

 

 
 

 

     

Ua pea *

   
 
 
 
 

CENTRAL :NTELLOENCE_AGENCY. Des
INFORMATION REPORT.

 
 

COUNTRY Bulgaria : 22 Auge 2951,

  
  
 
 
 

SUBJECT Constructicn of Bezner Airfield
é

‘NO. OF PAGES 2
PLACE : ‘NO: OF ENCLS.: 2
ACQUIRED Greece, Athens custo Beton wo

pate OF IEFO . ,
ESQOMED 6 april - of December 1960

STERADING OF SOURCE

OMPLETELY; USUALLY ©
RELIAGLE | RELIABLE

    
     

   

SOURCE ‘Through a fairly reliable source whose infornants were ‘Spas Todorpy Raikin, .
Zdrovio Kostadinov Damyanov and Stefan Petrov Peltekov, all former laborers —
on the airfield, : . :

an an)

 

 

 

 

i— 1, The attached report on the constriction of the airfield at Bezuer is forwarded -..
‘ for your information. coe °
2. It is requested that this document be returned to thie office by 21 Soptemd : A961, :
3. An evaluation would be appreciated. : ‘ : i
'
r am :
“ *
‘
fw)
. 4 get
ve
CLASSIFICATION SECRET :
‘STATE MAVY emSRB DISTRIBUTION En 0 ee eee
aay teas Gio ee
DOL - 223K
. a
> . Se cael .
