13-00 100 mo, . . _ a -) xX hhh Ao YU]
re Oa , i .
+ - G¥apped in’ an-efaort to disguise the place where the
” “+ photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an
‘ issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged °
im the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been {
shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the

 

picture to appear in the report with the background
completely blocked out and with the agreement that no
mention would be made about where it had been taken. .
As far as can be determined, the Agency has never

admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,

even though there has been a great deal of speculation

to that effect by several authors and journalists. As

a matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the
Commission later leaked information to an author regarding
the photo, but erroneously said it had been taken in

front of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico by CIA. Still,

the Agency has not revealed the actual location, only
saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.S. All
mention of the photo has therefore been marked to be
withheld, because of sensitive sources and methods
involved.

 

bay

ce. Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. ALVARADO, a .

{ Nicaraguan citizen, walked in to the U.S. Embassy in

} Mexico, claiming to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination.
It was learned that ALVARADO was an agent for the Nicaraguan
Intelligence Service (NIS), however his story re the
assassination was separate from his work for the NIS.: After
lengthy interrogation, including a polygraph, it was
determined that ALVARADO had been fabricating a story claiming
he had seen OSWALD receive money from a Cuban official at

i the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. The ALVARADO story appears

| in the Warren Report but it does not reveal his identity. In

i order to continue to protect ALVARADO and the Nicaraguan

i government from possible embarrassment all mention of
ALVARADO has been marked for non-release.

. 2. A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file
have been forwarded to your office for review by other LA
branches and possibly other Divisions. The documents are marked
according to which volume they belong in the 201 file (there

i are 57 volumes plus many bulky atachments.)

i : 3. During the review, it was necessary several times to
: refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain

i exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the
case. It is doubtful that the other branches will find this
necessary, but in case they do, the Warren Report is held

in the Library.

i «

 

C/LA/Mexico

2M 021248
 

rr ae - X Ah2- 404

, ‘31 July 1975

z o
MEMORANDUM FOR: LA/EICO . | > &
Mr. William Sturbitts z z
SUBJECT : Oneview of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File Y 2
for Freedom of Information Request g °
—_
REFERENCE : Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975 z
. pa
8
. & me)
1. A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248) @
has been completed by the Mexican Branch in connection with a
reference Freedom of Information request. Most of the >

information contained in the file that pertains to Mexico
came from sensitive sources and methods, such as photo
surveillance, bilateral teltap and mail intercept
operations. Although the mail intercept and photo
surveillance activities have been dicontinued, the fact : %
that they were in operation in Mexico continues to bé¢
considered sensitive. The bilateral teltap is till
active, and, therefore, is sensitive.

 

  
  

 

2. The Mexican information reviewed covered th
areas:

a. Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Nexican female
employed by the Cuban Embassy in Mexico who provided
‘assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cuba
: visa. Information regarding DURAN appears in the Warren
! Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency.

: The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate
DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the

GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was
turned over to the Commission by the GOM via State Department.
Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originally
came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention via the
bilateral teltap, all mention of Agency knowledge or :
participation in DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation
has been marked for non-release.

; b. Photo of unidentified man taken in front of
3 the Soviet Embassy in Mexico. This photo was taken by

: Station Wexico photo Surveillance of the Soviet Embassy
: during the month of October 1963, When news cf the

i arrest of OSWALD as Kennedy's assassin became known,

{ the Station immediately forwarded copies of the photo

i to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo

| was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall.
4

3

>
[om
Q
[a
a)
[aan
cam)
\ ae)
tad
on

It was later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD

and in fact had been taken after he had departed Mexico.
{OSWALD was in Mexico from 26 September thru 3 October 1963.)
Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown

to OSWALD's wife and motifer, with the background partially

Bu - aol~ OLFVIYS ©
