74-0000

 

. ~2~ *
: 0%
suBJECT: |Taden, Mrs. Ruth /

 

4. Mrs, said she did not identify herself as
being with'CIA, and did not make any attempts to draw out
Mrs. Sherwood for further information, Mrs does
not have the name of the alleged ex-CIA couriér nor the
first name of Mrs. Sherwood. She identified Mrs. Sherwood
as being number 33E on the Republican ballot in the
Maryland primary of 19 May 1964,

5. If you desire further information from Mrs.
she may be contacted on extension 9180.

 

MER CC4W 1.

OHN R, PHERSON
Security Officer
. DD/S&T

Attachment:
Excerpt from Washington Post-20 May 64

   

“Yn
 

Tinto] -
a ’ (

 

os * RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DD/S&T 1543/64
18 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director Security

4h S871

1. Subject is a staff employee of OEL., She advised
the undersigned on the morning of 18 May 1964 of statements
made to her on Thursday evening 14 May, which associated
the CIA with the assassination of President Kennedy, She
wanted a report of the conversation made known to the Office
of Security. .

 

SUBJECT |

 

 

 

 

2, Mrs, indicated that she resided in Prince
Georges County, Maryland, and several months previously had
registered as a Republican in order to vote in the up-coming
primary elections, ..,This past Thursday night a Mrs. Sherwood
telephoned Mrs, indicating she was one of the Delegates
on the Republican tt and was supporting Senator Barry

 

 

 

 

 

Goldwater. Mrs. told Mrs, Sherwood that she had not
decided which candi e to support, and that although she had
‘registered Republican she held a deep respect for the late
President Kennedy. Mrs, Sherwood then made some disparaging
remarks about the late President Kennedy. She also furnished
specific information regarding what she described as a
reliable prediction, made prior to November 1963, that
President Kennedy would be assassinated,

3. Mrs. Sherwood indicated that an acquaintance in West
Virginia, who said he was a former CIA courier, had told her
prior to the assassination of President Kennedy that President
Kennedy would be assassinated and that the assassin in turn
would also,be killed. Mrs. Sherwood further advised, according
to Mrs | that her attempts to locate this person in
West Virginia, after the assassination, were not successful,
Apparently, in Mrs. Sherwood's words, this person "just dis-
appeared from sight", following the assassination of President
Kennedy.

Document Numbar 280 - 466 B

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

 

   

aon
