“ry a language other than Spanish or English were. taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. ‘Boris Tarasoff. did the Russian transla- :
‘tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation. -
As soon as the Station learned that an American identi fying hin
self as ‘Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the:
Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there .

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

 

technician who was processing the film, ae

Further , photographs were not madg a)

film was used. Later ANS acu!
at the end of each day r less of amount of unused. Film remaining.

a complete rol] of

  

The instructions were to cover the entire work day loffice hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, ‘and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif- /
ficulties. .
Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a.tap of the Soviet line... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

6200462
 

fe
ANS
{ Speak in Russian.
638 BE”
There was some delay because St, see ooh waited to compare the
ene SUAS
guy

photographs with the type All transcripts were made in :

  
  

Tarasoff for translation because the calle sui thy

 

either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts .

- for operational leads.
14-00000

’ Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

~ street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an’ experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta--
tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was Oo
being released by the Warren Commission. - LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

‘ graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building
on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middle of |

aK os )

‘ one of a-

mbassy compound.

row of four houses on the south “aang iN
This site overlooked the ay e Soviet Embassy compound. The:

purpose of this Ww get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

> the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate

  
  

Embassy. LICALLA, the third Photographic a)

cruited agent: who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother |
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the.
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de~
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. *LICALLA film was
originally processed in. the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

Gv004 59

N .
 

104-10054-10060

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Guban Embassies (1963
1. [__ |eoverage: ;

From the time. the Mexico Station was opened in April, 1947 until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, ‘the Station had
developed a support: apparatus to exploit leads from

Mexico City. This umbrella type project
phone taps, three photographic eID Se i

. mail intercept operati qi i
Bs , Telephon i EAT) were placed by |

]who was handled by a Station case officer. The number

jet Enbassy in

  
   

sted of mul tine

ee ence team ‘and a

 

 

 

 

 

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post
' nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
, Czech, etc.) transcribers. General ly; these were Mexican or Mexican-
- American recruited agents.
"Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer :
> assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types” of cameras, films, -and concealment devices. These
: operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namety: LIMITED, LILYRIC
: and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
, bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

0000458

E2, IMPDET 7

QEPOETIOEMCITINE © Pvgeters
14-00000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers...

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. ‘These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a

 

 

 

 

 

 

' LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American cas AN)
b

‘med selected letters

 

 

from a subagent

 

 

  

 

 

 

coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by —
t . . .

 

the nature of the

 

 

at that time. The Mexican Direction

 

of Federal Security (DFS),

 

 

 

was a hip-

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were eects | and corrupt. |

 

 

 
 

 

_The listening post had 30 lines

 

 

 

 

“connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by

 

 

 

 

In 1961, because of mismanagement |

 

 

 

 

the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

 

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
‘post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
: . an American technician inside the listening post. a
. 3. Oswald Coverage: . fe
In mid-1962 |LIENVOY (the

 

 

 

    

" post for the telephone numbers of the So

viet NAS PENNE Vite Em-
bassies in anticipation of rssiiaeat no e@ Station immediately

 

 

 

 

 

 

|soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

 

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume -
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

}o
