13-00000

 

cf

SECRET

a
a

   

: 1 Yates Wiwgis hiss a tan going into Cubs to determina the arns necda
for the army of 1500. and the 3000 reserve reported in Camaguey ae well as
the 400 in Gente Clava, =.

 

7 Be dive Peegcé prodp in Mead vas eatd to rumber 750 water Dias
' Somayn and Col, Corea, They ave planning landing spote in Cuba. In a few
days @ plan of the different air atrips im Matenses, Pinar del Rig and wee eo
. Habana will be reeeived. by Hr. Frsyre. People at these strips sre organised — a re
’ and ave ready to yeceive ares. A budget ie being prepared of the ares - re
o necessary 2 for: she "770. trained nen 49 Mies and for the people at the atrstetpe. web

3. » Freyre. aueribes the uorale of his Misni group as high, but me
‘ gtressed the need to: ring General Pedrase to Mian to meet this group and
. the need for monetary support. ‘The Ceamagusy group has abeut £00,000 pesos =
. which will be converted Auto dollars and used for arma. Me Peerre ms? a
| that General, Pedrass was ready to cone to ittent. : Oe ,

. “1. “we. Fawley entered the wecting at thin point ends smmary of the

shove intormesion vas given to bine Be said that General Pedraza bade
an valia passport’ and visa, but that the State Department hed instructed tho

- reeteragice ant Heteredinetion serviee t0 pick bin up 12 be emters the

  

    

yy “ec Fouyee epebe abacs bts friend Jove Tometo Rivero, th Director aan
«oe hota tas Mein a an oi im Mead. . ee

32, He mentioned ‘wo groupe vhich have been trying to ‘contac’ bie ¢ group, ae ;
. ~ poe te' the Dine Ease Group Whose eppecech wae discesrnge’ os Mr. Breyre’s ee
a group Jose not vant to have anything to do with the 26 of July wovement. 0 >
. Boe other Ja the Batista group offering man power under Colonel Sanchea . ; :
Monqueda. Nr. Frayre: instructed his seeond in commend (Rearigues Couneiro)
to confer with the Batiste BRO,

 

 

    

 

 

 

  

-SERET

 
104=40049-10355) ©

_ secbers was te be blue handkerchief and that all othera om the streete
- ghowld be cut dow. The other 1000 men should establish a beachhead in =. >
_. Nuevites on the north coast of Camaguey which would be dae] because the wes
. port cah bendle the largest ships and the stevedores st the port are reporte:
. aatagonistic to the present government. Doctor Tomeu reported that there
* Yate an sdastionah 3000, nee available in Gomgery vio couls be wsefal to tha

 

i: uprising by falsifying a beachhead, since he knows that something serious |

ee Becessary on tbe ‘bert of Frayre‘s rouge

" Lawyer) whe leads bis group in Camaguey. She is in Miami end ie returning ~

to the eity of Camaguey as a result of the speach by Commendante Bajo in

ye Canagaey Provinee) 19 being organized as a submarine rendezvous end as a .-
. giselle bese, and. no ane. 19 allowed ‘0.50 there. There to 8 groak depth of
“z, Water, 90 tSe nowt, cosets a . os

 

by 28] |

SECRET ae ° Reon: wr

16 December 1959

  

 

ot| and Febio FREYAE

os he. “ate th yequaat of cutee, WED, Me. (mova as mowpaoe) met
ir. ‘Freyre at the. HaytLower Hotei at 2215 hours. on 15 Deasaber. a

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. he. Preyre: rapertea on the progress of hie Agoios Deposration '
Cristiana orgarnigation.- He had just deen visited by Doctor Tomsu (a wouan

‘to Cuba on Decenber 18, She reported to him that there were 1500 men well _
organised in Camaguey Province. Five hundreé of these were to be assigned

which he seid that if trouble arene the recognition sign for the 26 of July -

   

ge “Doetar’ Pooea reported ‘that cayo Romano tore ¢ ‘the north coast of

  

oe “Ee 1a. thought thet Castro 49 gaing to set a trap and provoke an .
ig being organizes around Genersi Pedraze.. For tat reason extrene ¢ caution -

 

5 Doctor ‘Tomea reported ap unchecked story that b thirty. Mrte are

oe “pets asgembled in the Havana area and that fifteen Czech pilots are ine
: Havana,” Freyre 19° sending & wan to check this stery.. -

i ‘frou the Cuben Minieter of Defense authorizing Katherine Taife to make

’ bse been promised.s letter of credit for 11 million dollars for the purchase. . ..
_-. Me. Freyre'a group will trynte get a photestet of the letter of credit. ~~ :
_ phir. Preyre*’s group previously had contact with Katherine Taife, but dropped —
. “her. as unreliable. It is believaé thet the letter of credit is drawn sgainst :
he. - Swiss bank account which is ja the name of Fidel, Raul, and She Suevara.. ;

6. Mr. Freyre will obtain Lov Hr. Fawley the photostat of a letter ae

 

contacts to purchase twenty Hawker Hunter planes on the bleek market, She ©

   

 

 

 

 

 
