F00000 - . ( (MLUALI 4

5. The remaining unanswered questions of concern to
the Senate Committee Staff members are as follows:

a. Does the Inspector General have files
relating to the Roselli/Maheu/Giancana matter,
and, if so, do their files contain any documents
dated. during the 1960-1963 period?

: b. Does the Deputy Director for Operations
have files pertaining to the Roselli/Maheu/-
Giancana matter, and if so, do their files con-
-tain any documents dated during the 1960-1963
period? . ; ; ;

c. Do Colonel Edwards' chrono files contain |
any information relating to the Roselli/Maheu/
Giancana matter, with specific attention to:
meeting with FBI on 7 February 1962; meeting
with FBI on 3 May 1961; any other meetings with
FBI, Attorney General, or Department of Justice
during the 1960-1963 period; and any meetings
with Sam Papich of the FBI during 1960-1963?

i "6. Based on verbal discussions with Mr. Gambino.

‘ and Mr. Dempsey, the undersigned will review the Inspector
General's files relating to this matter. in an attempt to
determine if their files contain any Office of Security
documents which are not contained in our files, with
specific attention to the 1960-1963 period. The under-
signed will also review the chrono files of Colonel
Edwards as requested by the Senate Staff members.

_ 7+ With regard to the question pertaining to the

DDO, Mr.. Dempsey recommended that this item be raised at

' the Task Force meeting scheduled for 1600 hours, 20 August
1975.. Mr. Dempsey stated that. he agreed that the Review
Staff. should pass any such request to the DDO, but felt that
it should first be discussed at the Task Force meeting in
view of the fact that the questions posed by the Senate
Staff members have not been received via normal and estab-
lished procedures. : ; :

2

-'SECRET
[toetorsactozre},e

( OLUALI

- RETURN To cia y
round Use On
20 August 1888 For Reproduce
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT © +, Senate Select Committee Staff Request
(Roselli/Maheu/Giancana Matter) .

“1. Reference is made to the undersigned's assistance -
provided to Mr. Andrew D. Postal and Mr. Gordon C. Rhea of
the Senate Select Committee Staff during their interview
on 19 August 1975 of Mr. Howard Osborn.

2. Primary emphasis during the interview of Mr. Osborn
seemed to center on the Roselli/Maheu/Giancana matter, and .
the undersigned served to answer specific questions of the
Senate Staff members and Mr. Osborn concerning the Office
of Security files relating to Roselli/Maheu/Giancana.
Specifically, the Senate Staff members were most interested
in why the Office of Security's pertinent files do not
contain more documents dated during the 1960 through 1963
period relating to the Castro assassination attempt.

3. The undersigned was able to answer some innocuous
questions posed by the Senate Staff members, such as the
number of documents in the Roselli/Maheu/Giancana files
which are dated prior to 1963, or attempting to locate a
specific document such as one written by Colonel Edwards
describing a 7 February 1962 briefing of the FBI (such a
document was not located). . ;

4. However, at. the termination of Mr. Osborn's inter-
view, certain questions posed by the Staff members could
not be answered immediately. As a result, in conversations
with the Director of Security, it was decided that the Staff
members would put any remaining questions in writing and.
formally request that the Agency respond to these questions.
in addition, it was agreed that although research into the

‘unanswered questions would begin immediately, any response

would be provided formally in writing upon receipt of the
formal Senate request.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 007472

SEGRET.
X

To oe SECHEI Gre
Soha te , & oo = a Cc :

8. The above is provided for your information, Unless
advised to the contrary, the undersigned will proceed with
. the actions noted above under paragraph six. ;
: “¢

Peat

 

 

ecitity Analysis, Group

psig,

- “SEORET
