74-0000

 

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

16 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Edward Ryan —
Deputy Director for Operations Training

SUBJECT: Interview With Staff of the House Select
Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) (S)

1. (S) On 16 October 1978, at the request of
Mr. Scott Breckinridge, I met with Messrs. Robert Blakey
and Gary Cornwell of the staff of the HSCA. Mr. Blakey
said that he had some questions for me that his staff
had wanted him to ask.

2. (S) Mr. Blakey wanted me to explain the functions
of Division D, which I did in. general terms, identifying
liaison with foreign SIGINT services, cryptographic
procurement, and covert intercept as its three principle
missions. Mr. Blakey seemed confused as to the relationship
between the CI Staff and Division D, particularly with
respect to a possible duplication in their functions. He
specifically asked me what CI/SIG was. I said I had not
heard that designation, but presumably the "SIG" stood
for SIGINT, and I went on to explain the complementary roles
of the CI Staff and Division D in the investigation of
illegal agents using radios.

3. (S) Mr. Blakey said that Division D had opened a
file on Lee Harvey Oswald, and observed that he couldn't
see how the functions of Division D, as I'd described then,
would explain this. I said I was not aware that Division D
had done such a thing, and that the only reason I could
imagine for such an action would be if Oswald had been
seeking employment as an intercept operator, but even in.
that case, the Office of Communications, rather than

- Division D, would have held the file, since all intercept

personnel at that time were in that Office. Mr. Blakey
asked whether the CI Staff would have had a file on Oswald,
and I said only if he were suspected of working for a hostile
intelligence service. : .

SECRET/SENSITIVE

£2 IMPDstT
CL BY 056473
 

(toatotar-104n

CD
ROUTING

 

ay
2 Aa?
Re eae aa 2
bales: 4
Jef Rha Ea tae PT
veoly
abies iB
id)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cy (ATeRWa (] UNCLASSIFIED _ ;

SENSIT

SR 610 “toriene’s (SECRET TL cGONFIDENTIAL
74-0000

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Interview With Staff of the House Select
Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) (S$)

4. (S) Mr. Blakey observed that every organization
has its formal, on-paper structure, but it also has a
second, informal structure, which is the one that really
determines how the organization works. He can understand
CIA's formal organization, but the second one is more ;
difficult for him to comprehend. Speaking of Bill Harvey,
he asked whether I knew him. I said I did. This led .
to a discussion about how it could have happened that Harvey,
as Chief, Division D, could have been engaged in operational
activity which seemed to have nothing to do with Division D's
responsibilities, as a service element of CIA. I said that
when I came into the Agency in 1948, Harvey was already a
very senior and respected officer: that in subsequent years
he had a very close relationship with Mr. Helms, and if the
latter had given Harvey some special assignment, Harvey could
easily have carried it out in a compartmented way alongside
his regular duties. I pointed out that since Division D
itself was a compartmented activity, it would not surprise.
anyone if the Chief of the Division were handling personally
an especially compartmented activity. Mr. Blakey wanted
to know how Harvey could have gotten personnel and funds
to carry out his assignment. I said he would probably
borrow the personnel in the name of the Director, and he
would get his funds in the regulation manner, probably from
an account under the Director's control. But he might not
need either: he might use people who would simply handle
his needs in addition to their regular assignments.

5. {(S) Mr. Blakey asked me if I knew who QJWIN was.
I. said I of course knew the crypt from its appearance in
the Rockefeller Commission Report, and that "QJ" was a

. digraph for a : ce, agent or operation

and I knew QJ} Was a Mr. Blakey did not
pursue the question. © ° coe,

6. (S) Mr. Blakey asked what kind of files Division D
kept, and I said they were all devoted to the operational

‘activities of the Division: that, except for our own

personnel, there were no files on individuals. Mr. Cornwell

' asked if Harvey had had any personal files and I said that

if he had, he had not left them behind in Division D, and I
doubted very much if he had left any behind when he left the
Agency. The HSCA staffers had "Ge, questions.

Edward ya

 
 

SECRET/SENSITIVE
