14-0000

 

a . a,

4. In view of. the above, no further investigation is
contemplated by this office unless advised to the contrary.

a

Charles.

 

Mc GRATH/mla
10/21/53
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

“oe

 

[0g 10250-10200
qe.

TO : Deputy Chief, Special Security Division DATE: 21 October 1953
From : Chief, Special Referral Branch

subject: HIDALGO, Jr., Balmes Nieves
#65077

1. Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 16 October
1953, in which it was requested that appropriate inquiries be
made to ascertain the answers to the following questions.

a. Can BALMES be made available for testimony
before the Subversive Activities Control Board in the
United States.

b. If the answer to question "a" is in the negative,
can the FBI interview BALMES wherever he may be outside
the United States,

c. Or can questions to be answered by BALMES be
submitted to CIA for transmittal to BALMES and the answers
given by BALMES be sent back to the FBI, via CIA.

   

 

 

2. On 21 October 1953 uel Chief, WH/FI
was interviewed in his office. Mr. ayised that the
Subject was presently a Contract Employee whose’ services are being
utilized ai anama \inder the Travel Control Project. He stated
that Subjeé has been overseas for approximately one and a half
years and that his contract period will probably expire within six
months, He advised that in answer to question "a", Subject can be
made available for testimony before the Subversive Activities
! Control Board in the United States if necessary. He stated that
_~’ Subject's position was not such that he was indispensable to the
| Project and that if it was absolutely necessary, he could be
recalled to the United States within twenty-four hours. In refer-
ence to question "b", mes] advised that there was no reason
why the Subject could not interviewed by. the FBI at his place
of duty. In reference to question "c", Mir°XC ALDWELL)repor ted that
this was the most desirable alternative and that he would prefer
the questions to be answered by Subject be submitted to CIA for
transmittal to Subject and that the answers would be returned to
the FBI, via this Agency. a>

af 3. On 21 Cetober 1953 iss lof Staff C
reviewed her records and determined that Subject's true name is

identical to the captioned Subject and not as shown in your
memorandum of 16 October 1953.

 

 

 

Gilby

 
