4. (AIUO) CIA personnel who believe they have information regarding documents relevant
_ to the JFK review that may not have been found in previous searches should contact their
component or directorate IRO or thie JFK Project Coordinator. Directorate IROs and the
Agency’s JFK Project Coordinator are as follows:

 

 

 

Secure Phone
DO / IRO William McNair 44448
DI/IRO.- 54644
DS&T /IRO 50104
DA/IRO Becky Rant 31204
DCI Area /IRO | 0 39058
JFK Project
Coordinator Barry Harrelson - 31825
: Is/

Director of Central Intelligence
104-10331-10163

 

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

 

EMPLOYEE & BULLETIN

 

OIM OIM EB No. 02-98
22 July 1998

FINAL DOCUMENT SEARCH TO ASSURE COMPLIANCE WITH “PRESIDENT JOHN
F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992" (JFK ACT)

FROM: George J. Tenet ;
Director of Central Intelligence

1. (U) As you know, the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (Board) is completing
its task of overseeing the search and declassification of all Federal government records relating to
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy by 30 September 1998. The Board and we want
to do everything possible to place before the American people the full story as reflected in
government and other records.

2. Ww) The Agency has been working on this effort since 1992 and has searched all of the
obvious databases. We want to make certain that we have left no stone unturned and that no
employee has any records that might possibly be considered relevant to the assassination—
including any records created. [or received] after 1992. The reference to 1992 is largely intended
to encompass documents which may have come into our hands since the callapse of the Soviet

; Union and Warsaw Pact.

3. (AIUO) In accordance with the provisions of the JFK Act, I hereby direct all CIA
personnel to consider documents in their possession or with which they are familiar that might
have relevance to the Board’s review and that might not have been found in the course of
electronic or manual searches over the past six years. Representatives of the Historical Review
Program believe that if such documents do exist they would, most likely, be found in files that
would not be generally related to the assassination or that would not be “logical” areas for
systematic searches. These include working paper files of smaller databases related to countries
not normally associated with the assassination. Relevant documents can be in the form of papers,
photographs, recordings, tapes, or other media, and-can include documents “related to the -
assassination,” such as later investigations, key topics/events within the Oswald/JFK Story, or
material related to key figures—such as Nosenko.
