  

DB Memo $6585 = Page 2 :

| =, Geshe Lotter was posted from the Stockholm Ban post. office,
is whteh ie Located in'the central ratlway terminal. in Stockholm |:

Alb wadl deposited - in street wai} bots in thi ares on in the port

office would be. processed through: chia stetion.. .

 

     

yo 7 u@e > The cancellation cachet. on: m1 tha envelope ia identical in
all respects (format, postmark, nunher style and Length o of xilier
vars) to exemplars available ‘incur office. « 4 .

 

£. The postage is corvect for Syedish internal mail and the
postage stamp ia of currant taauc. :

@ A possible irregularity is the time leg between the internal
dete of the letter, the date of the postmarz and the date of receipt
in the American Embassy. ‘The total time from the internal date of
the letter to the tims of recaipt is eight days, the tima between
the date of posting and the date of receipt is more then thres dsys.
This transit time of more than three days for intra-city mil appears
irregular vhen compared with the sverage trensit time of only twoe

ss “three. Gaya ‘Sor arrival boatwern Stoukholm and the United States.

3. ‘the ‘text of the letter warrants acme comments beceuse a mmber
of ‘paculferities were noted « aida from yure spelling or typing errors -
which seem to indicate.a Svedish writer. ‘the following words represent .
either Swedish spelling or modification: “veserv”, “etablished”, “muried”,
“Krustjey"., Other examples of Swedteh gresmer and syntax would be:

ee ae" (as post tense}, “in Sowtes” (Swodich form but not spelling),
“he was spy". (without indefinite mre)» “PRY, USA" {without definite
article),. “should” (rather than “soula"}, “outemugglea” (Syedich past
partict ple. form)». and Swihole tha world” (pure Bvedish form).

4, Another signtficont detail ts the name given, “Ryo Liang Yuan".
“Ryo” 1a not a standard spelling In aay known Romanization syste used
for Chinese.  “R" 4s seen in the uew Chinese Communist nationsl systen,
but never in combination with “yo". °‘Ryo” is a Japanese spelling. In
the nome given 1t is not known whother the Chinese or Western presen-
tation is used, in other voriis, whether “Ryo" or “Yuan“ is meant to be
the surname. Among Chiness syliehlies whieh could be represasted by the
Japeasso "Ryo" are Liao, dang wai Lang. Cf these Lung (10:7893) end
Idang (0332733) ere used as surmamon, In either case, "Ryo" is hardly
& nere by which a real Chinest would idwntify himself,

 

5. In summery, end based on the above iaformation, it ls conehiled
that the letter was tranmsitted vie normal Swedish postal chamecls. The
letter 19 probably a “crank letter", moat likely written by a Swede,
using a Swedish-keyboard typevritur and Swedish stationery.

 

Ae
i
i
i
qe
Abo.
dt

f
|
{if
!

 

 

 

 
 

  
  

404-10534-10044)
/ Nr LES ge Samal ase deceit

 

DB MEMO :36585
3 January 196k

  
  

 

 

 

 

Ta response to refersnéed requast, en: original: typewritten
retear and envelope afdressed 14! the émarican Embassy, Stockholm, +

  
  
 
  

    
    
    
  
 
  

        

‘ re “fae! typouriter’ tn" n*gueataon is 5 eaiipped « with ¢ an , obsolete:
style of Germen-made typo Which, eccording to our references, vas

dog

. b+" She machine: tn qontdan't equipped vith @° black on re
wibbon. ‘The keytoard La. vary probably Swedish, > 88 show ‘by two ro
\ wtielke-overs:" “umleuteu for Kyphee und "g* for: "as These “5 0”,
‘ ehereeters are adjacent ‘onthe whaniard’ Swedish keyboard, ' bet not
oa the Germans’ the unlaut~o was ‘not-used in the street address,

n* (where’ the dote-shewLl have: been placed over the ©
second “a").* This wight be'sithos «simple oversight or an atteupt
io conceal’ the writer's Marty wi the: correct: ‘Spellings

Parent Lae

 

       

The | aper. of ‘the tter: dy ‘of the’ Snternationn) ‘standard
(orn): size "AS" which is alacst universally used in Sweden. ‘The
linen-textured stationery teums'to be rather common in Sweden.” -
“ ¥Yhe two amaller pleces of blank papor match the letter paver with
“respect to width, thickness, color, texture and lock-t:rough,: and
were probably cut from another sheet of the same. tyne. ‘Ths envelope
matches specimens of Swedish cavelopes taken from DB/S-Postal..
Intelligence files.

 
 

 

 
DB Memo $6585 - Page 3

& For further inforwation concerning the typewriter and paper
analycos, emi the Svedish style of lengquege usage, contact Me. Jan
Beck on x2009. For further infomantion om the spelling of the
ostensible writer's nase, you may contact Mr. Gereld Worth on x2608.
For further information regarding the Postel aspects of this case,
please contact Mre Robart H. Heaks on 22303.

Te The original letter and earvelope ere being returned herewith.

AIDIN R. TRECIOKAS
Chief, TaD/DB

Attachzents (1)
As stated .

Distribution:
Orig & 1 = Addressee

1 = TSD/GARB/ABR
at 1 n/3
“~ 1 - DB files
. 1 - PI chrono
1 - Case 4361

sb /oB/5, 91 fathanks /x2303/exy

 

 

 
