74-00000

ayes

but 1f there vas I had every right to coze into ry can house, and I found that

“€oor T

-them was eble to do anything, I stood there and heard them come up to the

- Climbed us on to tne roof of the horse and waiked across the root and peepee,

|
_ over the edge thinking that if thure was one person left behind I equia Juxp!

‘
“when I care hone, that they nsd luaged for the car and mode an obvious attest ; 1
j s

     

(2)
LEVUND GS CONEY ;
After letisiug “and off cn a dark side yoad, 1 piorked ey cer

nearby and thin walked bik to ny Leases

. gute te jako pODENT the : :
T eae thot the od cor, 70: vaiech We eau and/policensn vas

these, s9°I crept theough the bushes up to the “all, clinted over the back

wall of my yard, ant crept along tie side keeping in the shedows and trying
A

to see irte my house to see if enyicéy was in there, I finally wade my wey -

to the back door, sed in and deterained that there was not enykody in there,

.

Io was not particulerly afraid 60 I decided to go in, I quietly opened the

back door, come into the house, quickly looked eround the corner into the

tedreom and inte the bathrooa, end decided that there was not anybody in there,
I waiked over and closed the front door, which wos wide open, quickly drew

tue erapes and turned off the Uigats. I then changed into old clothes end

“tennis shoes, got a fleshlight ead walked over to the kitchen uwindor, ehincd

my fleshlight into the face of one of the men sitting in the dar Just outside,
i was only able to shine it on onc Eans fece 50 I held it there for a little

while then snapped it off and walked thox to & good corner inside the house.

“Where I waited with the flashlight in hand kacving that the people outsile

could not enter through the front coor and if thoy entered through the back

G& benbdle te club oae of thee end kick the cther ono before either of

front deor end try the front coor, But, when they were unsaceesful they ~
didn't do any sors or cone ground te the back, They then got into their car, -
started it up, turned it arovad and drove off, While they were turning arvusd

I went out the back door, clinbed “wp oa a sink, co I could see over the wall,

; and watched them drive of » I etda't really know how many people were outside,

Nor did I know how scny people hed left in the car, Thinking thet this ndent ’.

heve teen a decoy and that they eicat have left somebody behind. x stieatiy

: i
@a hin from the root and sericusly injure hia, There was not anybody there
LIRUFEeh |

rr hoe .

so I left the house, walked up te the landlord's house,!

end told the frmily tat there hed beea scene streace poople hanging ardund

mania
ca
pS.
an

 
 

SUBSET LINUFP-L (te'/— »)
The atteched explains the involvement
of Subject in the circuors.ances surrounding.
the recruitment attempt ant personal harrassment
of Soviet officialfARpopenr (701~733422) in
ume, 1968. oo
The narrative {s presented

 

Oo Wes

 

ceeply involved in the qeration. Waile no
epperent direct or sericus damage to LIHUFF-1
resulted fron thie, it sust be torne in mind

tha bs rent bis house from LIHUFF-1

am! that if the Soviets ewer hed suscicions of
; (6-3
LYSUFF-1's relaticns vith Ghe Stetic, Li's

 

appearence in these events might be viewed
by the Soviets as possitly more ther coincidences.

 

 

 

 

ee san Hom Bihaette ee

i eS een

 
 

to gel at the door hacdle, and thet Thad no idea the they were ete, I was
cufficlently scared end put he ezr in reverec, backed up tnd took $6 down
end parked it out of eight, I cxplaincd that IT had climbed over the back
wall and co ca, They vero quiet cuare of the problen binee they had observed,
or thought they had observed, peonle hanging around the house all day, Thoy °
pointed out to mo too, that when their 18 yeer old son, BLl1, was riding on
horseback he encountered txo men vho hed just errived in a white Camaro driven
by o middleaged oF younger blond ledy, They got out of their car and walked
up to my house, Ons of them, he caid, wos carrying a pipo and the other one -
wes corrying a screwdriver, The son asked if he could help these me: but they
rushed nim off saying that he coulda't , The two men peered in the front gate

ead stayed around, hanging sround for quite a hile unts} a blue Chevrolet °,

. 4ppeared and tro people got out of it and went inside vie house, While

Hin outsice Lang Geound near the

‘these peonle ware dnetde the hevee, ths 402 sin

_ house,

: the hous left and the other/got dn the car end left, Zone of the . bs

1
. f _. _ &nd he would probably bo able to help out in this matter, 1 i

4
. .

‘couldn't seem to ba able to start at! * Finally, the tre ren who hea been inside

: ‘LYHUFF-1 - oo
After spending conetine in the house, | reported te me

7. i
two men cam: out and there was sone confusion going on around the car and they . H

two nen -LINUFF <1,

fanily was exactly sure that was going on except that there was confusion

arvundg the car, Eventually all the people left one way or anothsr,

house, Thut I didn't Like the ides of people being inside my house and
LUivrr-1

. wented to call the police. ‘Yrs. seid thet she had called her husband

end he was coning right home, ang that, he hed some very good contacts in‘

’

i
@greed to wait until he got home and that I would go and get ny cer and bring “

i
4t back home, which -I then did, I spent the rect of the night with the +
LUWFF-1s ;

1

I said that I was very ecncerned about these people hanging sround ny |
i]
|
|
i
t
}
{
i

Jwisiting and as quickly as possible I moved the conversation ‘

i
i

* away from this to other colplictely unimportant things, I decided in the { . je
LINUFY=i 4

presence of. sthat there probably was not any reason to get concerned

i
ebout thin, that {t was probably just soma studeats trying to make me look

: i
foolish or something on that order, : . H

sdatitetn a ik
2

‘,

porenaert
 

Dan pues Oe ome ee ANN A en olan Ome ot eweidine tne! a eammN He EON LO me See me tects

 

 

that “Spate Chevy was gone from the parxing lot, Then I vorked un

 

One thing that I forgot te ncention waa that Hira. _ | wan catremsls

 

upset beemuze a tull blond men/u Mexican po)icesan came up to her house after

the kids reported the people left, They reported that 2 car had been stolen,

She asked who ths blend man was, and he suid he vonted to call his embassy, Sas ,

brightened up and end asked if ho was on Acericon, but he said no,. "Uns,"

-¢
One of the kids asked if "URS" mennt U.N,S.S., and he eade no attemat to hide

. BINUFF=1
the fact that he was from the Soviet Embassy. They barged in the,

LINES}
house, and in fact it was lator reported that he tried to talk to Hrs, _

4n Russian vnich upset her even morg, The tall blond adn used ths tolephons,

LIWUFF=1 ° . .

and es far os Mrs, __knowa, he dud ¢21] his embassy,

Earlier, when I arrived at the Univeraity behinad the Russian car, I

told the Lt,, for the University police force that I wanted the car toved .

eway at 9130 the next morning if it was still there at the time. avd he entd

that he would be gled to if it was,

. . LIRUFF-is
When I went to get my cor after: talking to the | ground 23:70
hours. I did ‘go dom the road past the entrance to iy house out to the rain
highway Jr. to look eround. I went,dowm as fer as The Ledy's Bar, When I
passed the corner of the main nigay’ ana the road leading oft from it to my

house, ZI saw & blue Chevrolet which looked very mich like the oar we had . pushed
dom to the UJaiversity and sox people ptanding around £¢ including at tea: st
one uniformed policenan, I concluded that this was connected with this case,

I went down to The Lady's Bary turmed around and” cane back up the main highways
but from a point considerably below + from where that oar was parked until con-
siderably past it ‘I kept a bue botween those people and mynelf ond I don't
think, on the bases of later things, that they have said, that they gan me cons
back up the hill, The bus effectively shielded mo all the way Up. I went ;

clear up to Cuajinulpa then and turned down the rood that leads to my house ,

so I didn't have to pass them again and went on in and parked my oar inside ‘the

compound,

 

or The next norntng I went to the University at about & é'olook and mr
; rf

2

{
ay Secretary notified me that sune Federal plaindglothes policemen were there
: IDEN-E i }

looking for __ » I imaediately went to my office and found three or four

Federal policemen outsice ths office and unfortunately the Lt, of our police

q
j
4
|
i
