 

 

404-10151-10201 ly.

 

yp

 

4

Page 2
Dast

6. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON In response to a letter
from Representative Robert W. Edgar (D., Pa.) concerning an:
article in The Sunday Bulletin entitled "CIA Disputes Broomall
Wiretap Story, which contained erroneous information concerning
the Congressman, I called Kathy Keel, the Congressman's personal
secretary, and told her that a letter had been forwarded by our
General Counsel to the Department of Justice on 3 December 1976
seeking their assistance .in investigating this matter. She thanked
me for my call and said no written response would be necessary.

.
. . : . ~
Journal ~ Office of Legislative Connsel
Tuesday -"7 December 1976

 

 

veq?- (Internal Use Only - BAA) LIAISON Received a call from
Kathy, DDO/British Desk, who said they were in receipt of a message

° from. ertaining to the message that came in this morning

for Richard Moose, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, from —
Senator Dick Clark (D., Iowa) requesting confirmation of the receipt of
the message and the time. After talking to Moose, I called Kathy and told
her that Moose received the message at 2:00 p.m, and that there would

be no response back to the Senator. She will take care of sending out

the appropriate response,

' 8. (Unclassified ~ NDL) LIAISON Reccived a call from
Richard Dingman, Representative John B. Conlan's (R., Ariz, )
Administrative As sistant, who wanted to know the procedures
the Congressman should follow in requesting information on himself
under FOIA. I told him to write to George Cary and gave him the
address and said we would process it from there,

9. (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Richard Sprague, Chief
Counsel, Mouse Select Committee on Assassinations, called to say that he
would have to again postpone the rneeting we had scheduled for today at
10:30 a.m. We compared schedules and decided to meet at 10:30 a.m.
tomorrow. Sprague asked if I would have the letter on destruction of
documents. I told him that I planned to bring along the final: draft for him
to look at. We then discussed setting up a mecting with the Director,
Chairman ‘Chomas Downing (D., Va.) and Representative Henry Gonzale
(D., Texas}, He suge ed that the meeting include the Ranking Minority
Member, Samuel lL. Devine (R., Ohio); who he said is a great admirer
ef Mr. Bush, I told hirn I would check the Directox's calendar and get

zx

 
 

back in tonch with him,

x/FSCE

 

Ree,

 
