 

 

  
      
    

 

 

wd

4 Octabor 1960 by NSA investigators with segative reaults, We have
&o yot not received the next consolidated NSA report of investigation,
which may cowfain the reselts of the CNI interview of SUMAN, which
fe meationed fa enclosure te your mstmorandum of 13 October.1961.

   
 

 
14-00000

 

memes are attached for your convenience as Enclosures E and F, Cone
trary to the impreasion conveyed in Amiden's memoraadum-of G‘August™
1960, a closer reading of OSSW-6379 reveals that his visit with 5U MAN
eceupied the entire period of his atay in Californta, f.¢@. from 27 Ccteber
through § Novomber 1959, to the exciucion even of visiting the Inyokera
Naval Station where Source's mother was employed, and concerning~
which he held certain <2I'o from the Soviet case officer. Under tha
eiveumstances, hie contact with SUMAN cannot be dismisoed as lightly
ae Ariden's memo might indicate, and it is very doubtful that TIORAALA,
would have-been able to get off with as suparlicial o report to his KGB
handler as ke appoars to have done with reapect to the WE/] case
officers responsible for hie handtiag at the time.

7. As Enclosure G, please find a copy of the report TIDRAMA
propared on hia contacts in California, which was prepared by the Deak
asd paoscd te Mr, er clearance by appropriate U.S. Agencies
for pasoage. This mg: adum wee made available to this office by
Mr[” earing the week of 30 October 1961. The memorandum
iteclf fe dated 17 November 1959, and according te his.[" setae
ties was.ahown te the FBI on that date, and subsequently returned on
3 December 1959, Please note SUMAN's mame to included.

 

& According to Mr. Granquist's mamo to Mrs, Potockl, (cf.
Enel, B)} there shllogedly ia no further miention of SUMAN in the
TIDRAMA/ALMUSICAL file other than that forwarded by Granquist
with hie noie, and the report forwarded to us with referenced memeo-
randuin,

9. Faltewing disappearance from the Uaited States of MARTIN
aad MITCHELL in July 1960, ead after initial request for asaistance
from this Agency, NSA made avaitable:in early Auguet 1960 photocopies
@ the PHS forme completed by MARTIN and MITCHELL for omployment
with NSA, sach forms being dated 11 July 1957, three days after they
Feported for duty at Fort iieade. Suamination of MARTIN’s employ~
ment application revesied that ha had listed Michael C. SUMAN of
Slerra Madre, Califerda, as a pereonal reference in one case, and as
a credit reference in another place, indicating that he had known him
for a period of four years, i.e. since 1953, However, inasmuch as
there wae no indication that SUMAN had been connected in any way
with MARTIN's milltary service is Japan, it was assumed that SUMAN

-) wae @ casual acquaintance and not aa Intimate friead.

10, Sebsequent mention of SUMAN in NSA reports dated 1] September
_, 96h and 1 March 1961 repeat information reported in para 9 above, and
-, reflect that SUMAN's. namé was checked-through the -HCUA ‘indices’os**~ *

 

 

       

 

ogee empl SE Sith

 
 

tay gure een rey

 
 

cee, earn nT nna se erent Bs

pp SADR e as ottoman

 

2 ptatentge iin wor Paine mie aganietovnse POO

this chronology. Neither dogs there appear to be any reporting of the

reaction shown by the KGB handler whon AEMUSICAL firat indicated he

Song,

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

ENCLOSURE A

Reconstructed Chronotogy of KGS Knowledge of Michsel C. SUMAN's
Gennection with AR MUSICAL and with ZRGRACE Principals :

1, Per CSCI-3/766, 672, dated 12 July 1960, addressed to the
FRBL, on puge il thers ie mentioned a “genaral questioning by SLABOV
ef AEMUBICAL with regard to hie contacte im the U.S. duriny the
meeting between SLAGOV and AEMUSICAL on 35 biay 1939, lt must
be presumed that SUMAN's name Likely came up at thia time, in light.
of information developed at a later date showing SUMAN to have been
the porson whe exerted the most influence over AE MUSICAL ia hie
youth, sccording to ALMUSICAL's own admisaion.

2, At the 16 July 1959 meeting with SLABOV, hile KGB handler,
AEMUSICAL was instructed by SLAECV te prepare and submit to
SLABOVY at the next meeting a “wery completes life histery’ of himeeli,
(ef para, 9, OSSA-5814, dtd 24 July 1939) According to the eame
weference, the CIA Case Cilicer, Timothy F. Nogglo met with
AEMUSICAL oa 17 July, at which tlins he obtained ths above info, aad .
is para 17 the CIA handler states:

"37, Wa gave T/1 the greon light on his Ufe history telling
bira to furnish a complete and truthful report to. TIDRAMA/3,.
The portent of -I'/3's ‘high-level! schame lor T/1l ie hard to-deduce
and harder yet to accept at face value. For the time being it
seems beet te maintain our wait-andesee policy, particularly
because the. Sovict trip should produce a firm decisiow on the
Soviet side as to whether or not T/! is worth ait this bother...."

Siaca the next AEMUSICAL (then still TIDRAMA/1) contact with the

KGB was echedoled-for'} August 1959, to be follawed by a meeting with

Noggle on 6 August, it must be preaumed that af icast at thie time
AEMUSICAL‘s cloge friendship and continuing contact with Michael C.

SUMAN was brought ts the attention of tha KGB. However, it is note- :
worthy that throughout the operation, there is very little detailed . a
reporting from the field on the exact details of what AKMUSICAL told ;
the KGB handler at each meeting regarding each of his personal con-
tacts, Subject’s case is a perfect example, Actually there is no
detailed record of exactly when or what AEMUSICAL told the KGB
about his (rleandship with Subject, cther than the items contained in

Gopth to which KGB representatives probed inte this relationship, the

 

 

 

  
 

 

rriacgntcnt ang Sree be AED a EAE atte ryaeare ainsi

 
    
 

deters ete penne nena elee seenene fete

 

ABN POA hen baatfSiehcndnene Winter ncmamene

No pena taba NO SROTA DeN LO TT aaa

he does not admit, or of which the agent ie entirely wawitting.

. plans to cantact SUMAN while on the WestCoast during the pertod ~~

'. Coast trip in October-November 1954, during which time he wae -

 

{

waa a itiend of SUMAN's, ete, Since AEMUSICAL (then TIDRAMA)

actually was in contact with the KGB Resident tn stockholm, Ivas

BORISOV in 1957 prior to bie contact with KU BARK through the lecal

ODACID installation, there alwaye remains the possibility that SUMAN 3
{
t

 
  
 
    
   
  
 
    
   
 
 
   
  
  
    

may in some-yet unexplained manner ‘have played seme role ia BORISOV'’s ~
contact with AEMUSICAL of which source either is witting but to which

 

3. C8CI-3/756, 896 addrevsed te the FBI under date of 9.Ccteber
1959, page 5, para 5, indicates that TIDRAMA did in fact provide
SLABOY with the requested detailed personal biographic Matory states
ment, such isformation presumably having been passed, as planned,
es 3 August 1959. Lf SUMAN's name bad not previously come up in the
oval questioning of AEMUSICAL referred to in para t, above, it surely . cnnas cna
Taust have come out on this occasion.

 

i

3

4. Inzemoch as SLABOV requested AEMUSICAL to provide him \
with an adérese at which he could bo reached while in the U.S. in the {
fail of 1959, although the record indicates merely that he thereupon
supplied SLABOV with bis mother's addrese in Callforaia, in view of {
the information reported to his headquarters handiors in Cetober 1959
prior to leaving Washington, it must be prazumed that ALMUSZAL |
also provided SUMAN's name end addrees to the KGS, ss one of the
persons he plansed te contact and vieit with while in the U.S.

 

5. WE/1 and the FBI ware aware,.ic-advance, of TIDRAMA's

27 Cetober through 5 November 1959, sccording to the original plane,
aa indicated in attached memorandum dated 29 October 1959, addressed
by WE/i to Mr. Milor of Cl/Gpa/Sovaat. (inci. D) The original ofthis.
deecument was found interiiled in tha TIDRAMA Operational Files held
by SR/CI/RED,

 

attempting to obtain certain claosified information from kis California
contacts in order to comply with the KCBS requiremenis given him by
SLABCV before he teft Stockholm, TIDRAMA was again debriefed and
briefed by the headquartera case officers of WE/1, with report of his
U.S. trip forwarded to the Held as OSSW-6379, under date of 13 Noverabsr
1959. Apparently this pouch wae not coordinated with Mr. Miler, and

it is apparent that no copies of the complete pouch were provided to hins
following dispatch to the field, in light ef various memoranda referring

toe OSS W 6379, all of which are addreseed to Cl/Upe Sovsat and begin
with a memo dated 9 August 1960 o concerning SUMAN. Copies of thee

     

|
|
6. Following TIDRAMA'S retura from above referenced West |
t
|
{
i
i
i
|

 
 

ene A lee Sgt op aH

oo Ae fttate clement see

_ some of which include. extensive background data on certain of the agent's.

 

dissemination of the information obtained by the agent from Subject be
prepared by W/i lor ONL, with copies to HSA, the FSi and this eliice,
auch dissemination to be coordinated with Chief, FI/2, prior te release
by the CI Staff, Sech handling, we believe, will enable WE/i to provide
ths appropriate source description and references to cartier correspond-
ence with UNI on this case, in such wianner as to pormit ready internal
ONI coordination in thie matter, and.to protect the identity of the ageat -
aa well as te joint cperational equities of both the FZi and this Agency
im this case. Mr. Ludiam of your staff, why ie farniliay to some

extent with the TICRAMA/AZMUSICAL casa, has indteated that this
method of handliag the information will.simplify auy further coordinae..

tion with the Navy on matters with which be is concerned.

3. For your convenience we are forwarding for your information

ae Enclosure A, herewith, a reconstructed chronological outline of the
KGB koowledgo of the relationship between AEMUSICAL © Subject «
MARTIN and MITCHELL. Enclosure A is based upon information cone
tained in thoae documents on the case, which were made physically
avellable to this office far review through the efforts of har. Hal
Granquist, WE/YCE, who holds the actual 201 file on this case, include
fag alt cperational reporting beginning with January 1961. Cur review,
therefore, wae limited to the three-volume TIDAAMA Operational Files,
covering the poried 1457 through Lecembor 1960, which files were
found in the cuatedy of Airs, Gertrude Wecker of SR/CI/RED,
Mp.. Granquist advised that it would'not be -posaibic for us to havens. -..
similar lean of the material since December 1960, for reasene cutlined
ig hie aste, which te iecluded in Enclosure B. However, Mr, Grangulat
volunteered to review the entire 20) file tn our beball, and to axtract

the pertinent Informailon on SUMAN fram-said file, aad te forward such --:°-- -

faformation to thie ofilcs, Todate, such review bas produced only ona
euch extract, copy of which is attached as aclosure B,

4. Your particular attontion io invited to the fact that review of
the TIDRAMA Operational Files revoaled that the bulk of the reporting
oa this case, including the ideatities of TIDRAMA+1/ALMUSICAL's
percenai acquaintances, contacts, and operational reporting targats
oa whom he has passed information ta the KGS, have acver been
indexed into AID indices, and therefore are not reflected in a pare
eheck submitted by other desks of civisions to the Central RID/Index
Section, Ae a consequence such same check will oct ia any manner
reflect to the requestor that there is any information on such individual
holé in WE/1, even though extensive information may b¢ available, and
even indexed in WE/1 card files. Tbie velume of unindexed reporting
ingludes interaal CIA comimunications between Headquarters and Field
stations, as well as reports to and from the FBI and other U. %. Agencias,

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
    
  
    
   
 

asa

decried eedareryier wt sateen sene smitten eantmasennenhs tha meet este eM ert Semin epee ergtme nc Nit etmekn mI! Spada mvmmnrimecenee = wy ems

 

  

40219-10117)

 

vate, . Comp eee ~

 

3 November 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. James ik. Hunt, Je.,

Deputy Chief, Cl Staff

BUBIECT: Micanel CG. EUMAN (201-306566)

Mutual Gentact of Willlam Hamiltos MARTIN
and of AEMUSICAL
Your Memorandum dated 13 October 1961

REYESENCE:
foe os = wet “Re M & MM Case"

1. Thaak you very much for your memorandam ef 13 Oetober,
referenced above, and for the enclosed contact report, including
AEMUSICAL'o report on the information he acquired from Subject
eoncerning the latter's interview by ON! and contact with Willlans
Hamiltes MARTIN, Neither the biographic data on SUMAN contained
therein, cox hie close sscoctation with both MARTIN and Bernca
Fergucen MITCHELL were known to us hitherte. Neither were we

‘aware of bis apparently extensive correspondence with MARTIN. I¢

- hae net boen posatale to date to verify through special scurces whether

 

ea gee a

Subject'sa correogendenca with MARTIN continued aftor MARTIN's
disappearance from the United States. We have act ae yet received
the tatest NSA ropert of investigation, which would include the ONL
report of interview of Subject, since this document apparently has
bees delayed in publication and transmittal. However, we have been
Savised that the document in question should be availabie im approxi-
mately ons week to ten days, at which time we shall provide you with
the ON report of their interview of Subject, :

"8 In veply to the query outlined fa paragraph 3 of your memo:
fandam, we see Uitle point in attempting te discourage ARMUSICAL
trom passing thie information te the Soviets, both on basie of his past

performance im veporting, and because the KGB undoubtedly alroady ia -
aware of SUMAN‘s relationship to MARTIN, MITCHELL and AEMUSICAL.

As @ consequence, i¢ would not appear necessary to request ONI to
clear thie information for paasago to the Soviets by AZMUSICAL, per-
ticularly since it muet be assumed that the KGB is monitoring all mail
sent and received in the USSR by MARTIN and MITCHELL. In order
to simplify the handling of this information both within thie Agency and

the customer agencics involved, it is swagested that a n straight cscl

: Sra
i” St EU

 
  
 

pagan

bine en on

  

- anvaag

Sela een ED Sat

 

  
    

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

   
   
74-00000

 
  

 

“t
fee

aety :

contacts, The failure of WE/I to provide for AYBAT carding of the
identities mentioned in the AZMUSICAL reports, for which there is

ample provision undor.CSN-43-35, dated. Ji.May 1959, hae resulted.
in the dtopatch in Subject's ease, of an officlat Agency memorandum
dated 2 November 1940, addressed to the National Sacurity Agency

and the FBI, advising that CIA indices contained no references identice
flable with atichsel CG. SUMAN of Sierra-Madre, Calilernia, who was

a Usted reference of William Namilten MARTEN,

Yor your convenience

@ copy of this memorandum is attached as Enclosure C,. Undoubtedly

@ copy of the momorandum itself, or of the tafsrmation relayed thereia

was made available to UNI by NSA prior tc actual ON] contact and intere
view ef SUMAN. Ao a reault of cur receipt of the information forwarded
with your gefereaced memorandum, a phyeical recheck was conducted
oa 19 Cctober 1961 of all BID/Iadex carde on file in Central RID/Index

fa the surname of SUMAN,

there vere absoiuiecly no cards filed under the naine of Miehsel GC,
SUMAN as ef that date. This check was made prior to ovr contacting
of Mr. Granquist later that day or shortly thereaftor, with regard to

pesacible price reporting on SUMAN, which may have been provided by

the agent in advasce of the latest report.

Mr, Granquioet readily

This exercise revealed that ae of that date

adrnitted that there had been some previous reporting, but otated that
none of theee referyences had been iedesed in of for HID/Index, since
he docen't believe in indexing every same that appears in operational

 faperting as a contact of the agent, that is “unless.we hava eome

operational izterest in.such person, and herstofere we have never had -
aay euch Interest in SUMAN, ' He aleo indicated that SUMAN's name
had been passed to the KGS by ALMUSICAL ‘some time ago, probably
around the turn ef the ysar, ' but was. not able to-coms up. immediately
with a specific. date or reference in which details uf this report te the. ~

RGB was recorded.

. ago factually pbout 18 monthe prior to the repert forwarded sith

=

He alae indicated that despite pazsage some time

fete

eace) by ALMUSICAL. of Michasl-C. SUMAN's ame te the KGB ae an
iedividual with whom the agent maintained personal contact, he did not
feel that this fact, por sa, transformed SUMAN into the category of

persore “ol eperational interest to us."

When queriad for further

detaile on such reporting, Granquist indicated “that he thought he knew

. Just about where these reports were located in the file, ' and volunteered

te extract the pertinent informaticn and forward same to this office.
However, he indicated that he did not believe he would be able to let
us borrow the actual 201 file, which is on permanent charge te W E/ 1,
and to permit ue further detailed study of the material therein, since

the files were in constant use at ths desk.

However, he went on to state

that he would be perfectly willing to let us borrow the earlier TIDRAMA
files held by wipe. Wecker, if we preiarred to. conduct such review

eursetves, rather than relying upon his-review and extracing of pertinent

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
74-0000

 

cer ead,

 

‘ materiale from these files, This offer was accepted, and Mrs. Potecki
eubcequently borrowed the filos held by Mra. Vecker; the results of
this check raveated the detalls of AEMUSICAL's reporting en his cone .
tacts with SUI4AN, insofar as such detaile are reflected tn the TIDRAMA
operational files, and are summarisod in inctosure Aw. --. -

$. It is obvious from even a relatively superficial review of theee
materiais, that AEMUSICAL hae never been questioned in detail by his
CIA case olficere on his relattonohip with or to SUMAN and a number of
ether individuals, whoece names appear throughout this correspondsnce.
either does he appear tc have beon debricfed in depth on the substance
of the inicr ration he passed to tha Soviets on euch persons during the
individual meetings he had with the KGB, much lese regarding the
Feaction of the KGB handier to any of the names, or the follow-up
querics put to hina by the seviet Case Cificer orally during the course
of any perticular meeting whos euch information was passed. This
statement, of coarse, is based upon the operational reporting prepared
by the Case Olficerl ad te obviewsly cubject to possible
eorrecticn in the event such details are covored in the ladividual cone
tact reports prepared after each meeting by the CIA bandler, such
reports not having bean ccanned or read in the course of thie review.
Unicos such details do appear in the contact reports, it would appear
that eource has withheld much ef the detail af his conversations with
bie Soviet handler, sither oa s witting basis the motivation for which
must be established, or unwittingly, possibly because ho was not asked
for these details, Under the circumstances, you may wish to consider
_ ondertabicg.a thorough Cl review of the entire AEMUSICAL case, in
order thot a detailed debriafing of the agent may be undertaken upon
bie return to the United States, and prior te hie re-tranafer te the cone
trol of the FSl. We note that despite indications to the field that the -
desk was preparing traces on AEMUSICAL's multitudinous centacts,
the files reviewed refisct tha raculia of such tracing efforts on oaly a
omall proportion ef ie agent's asuociates and contacts.

Whe eterna he

WEE (mw OU meee

 

6. Itts requested that the writer be kept advised of any farther
action contemplated in this case, ae well as of any further information
developed about source's contact with SUMAN or any other persons

' figuring in the ZRGRACE casa.

    

_ WILLIAM K,. HARVEY
; re Chief, FI/Divisioa D
oy se FI/D/APotockizmem
: URNS E, Fran S7 Qrig-k lw/enc, - addressee
iJ iJ e

CLL ALL Pwlene., - OS/5RS
‘wfenc. + 201+282338 v.. ery Lwfenc, - 100-6-124/3
Lw/enc. ~ 201-308566 _. ae . . ‘ :

MOLD se ACR a ma ARNT eta raat an examen ewan hah AAD
4

  
 
  
  

 

       
 

Loe te aa eG

iA hone maa

 
