104-10219-10001

(>) The Presidant 1s incapabla of establishing and
organizing in tha Vhite House and elsewhere a regular system
for deciding about international cuestivas especially whea
erises and emergenctes aro invelved. This cenwt ba done because,
the Presideat is constantly and almost completely confused
about the fLaternational relattons,

On the basis of this, Frankel {8 persuaded that the
Adminfetration in geacral does not know what to do as for
instance when the Soviet Unioa, de Gaulle, ‘estern auropy,
etc., are Luvolved.

(ce) The President's suddan actions and his untlateral
support on - fmerican power show thet he is in a panic
because he tears defeat and that he is frustrated La connection
with interastional developments which he does not undarstand
and in front of which he cftea feels powerless.

knew

(4) It 4s asither logical nor exact that tha
President hae started a geaeral offansive ageinst communisa,

First of all, he tries tu keep normal relations with
the Soviet Untoa.

Then, be doos not even think of disturbing the Cuban
situation,

Furthermore, the relations of the United States and
Yugoslavia are normal,

Finally, it is a fact that the President's moves
have heretofore been only reactions to situations where the
United States was faced by unacceptable defeats (Congo,
Vietnam, dominican Republic), ‘ctually, he had to defend
himself from defeat and did act attempt to win aew territorias.

If a “crusade” were in question, the President
himself would open new crises on new grounds.

ge
104-10219-10001

bshavior is his fear tnai aay success cf comanism against
the United States will jeopardize his interaal political
position,

eke

(6) As for Vietnam, the ‘dministration is ready

to use all the means in order to prevent defeat in South Vietnam.

If the current situation stabilizes, which is
atfficult, the Preaideat will act try to widsa the military
operations,

Tha Vietnamese crisis remains in the stage of
controlled escalation,

wee

One of the esazntflal elessats ta the calculations
of the President and of his ‘Administration are the very
relfable evaluctiong resarding the wish cf the soviet Union
to avoid participating (a military actions in Vietnam or
elsavhere,

Thus, the mutual avoidance of military confrontation
of the two ‘superpowers’ leaves enough ground for maneuvering,

 

Kobert McCloskey

Ha defended to the end the offictal and the
published reasons of tha United States action {n the Dominican
Fepublte.

However, it is interastiag to note that he too
emphasized that thea Prasident is particularly concernad
about the factors related to the Laternal policies,

 

(5) One of the main reesons related to the Prasident's -
104-10219-10001

.

SUMMARY PEOM SKBG-CRGATIAI

REPORT (A)

ELHENTS FRCi4 TALKS ABOUT PP2SZNT ACTION
CF U. S, A, AND PRISIDINT JUNNGN'S PULICY

Max Frankel

{ (1) After two hours of debate and cnly by uslag !
heavily his personal prestige, Presideat Johnson forced his

Cebinet to gead treops to the Ocmiatcan Republic, The

: Administration is fer less united adcut the Doatnican

\ Republic than it fa about Vferaan,

However, sinca this unhappy action has beea underteken:
fa the worst possible manner, there is ao choice: but to support |
the Presideat. :

wee

(2) Frankel does not consider that the President's
actions in the Congo, in Vietnam and in the Dominican Republic
ave the resuit of his thoughtful stratesy of the asw “crusada"
againat comminiam, He also considers that these actions are !
got tha result of the President's feeling of omnipotence
because the President is very careful in avoiding a direct
armed confrontation with the Soviet Uaton. \

Frankal considers that the ection in the Domintcan
Republic is the product of the following factors:

(a) The President is almost completely incapable of
wunderstanding the world and the international relations and of

Bpproaching rationally and systematically the international
problems, ’
104-10219-10001

 

i,

oy. wok? (4b.

* olyacuye et ola tte etm

Tote este - pee ager

IS wet Solicate eonsaee

i) ee. ean a eee

peer pene -

Aa ali

*) Yor mente nt ee tevtaed ae

Bi MeL AF ee 7

 

wathie, Viiins
cate ta Morte vIn’ Gere,

eee oan ir eee eae MWh on
> foo dew Gate oe

 
104-10219-10001

Proa the Yugoslav Ratausy - Washington
To the Coordtioation bepartment - Belgrade

August 10, 19¢5

The correspondente of the “Evening Star” infora
today from the United Nations that the United Ststes Govern-
ment will announce on August 1lJU that it does not issist
on Artivte 19. Consequontly, the problew is being solved.

Allegodly, it will be announced at the sane ‘
time that the soviets have accepted the idea of donations.

According to information obtatoed by the above- :
wentioned correspondenta, the Unitec States and the Sovtet :
Uaton have agreed ebout this watter,

This would make posstble the norual sork of
the General Asgembly of the United Nations.

(Gvertazman, blue card index)

 
104-10219-10001

K. : .. Cagust 4 Looe

 

Larrentnied rating engin 4 Erinn Wer"

god olan 2 Micdiv pacie Tanga, we 2 awleta,
SVD w«~ perch Gah, ve camera coger La

ols “je wool eevee Ene ne eAtn 43, Ce hey

AQ poretreaiua,- ea j inne LAD - es awe at Ite

ebyrrile ote meth Cae fered He -otetooe
2

Tee ge Tg Ug at nadapataten =

we pinion
oe 7 - Fangia ote ~Lo-

Ee eae a.
cab Sask haret Le J
Dee ae Danae cere tg Pee ate read
Ligrobij rach MM Cae ye

Taree

p Php Tine

( Gur: wear, Ab. «)

 
104-10219-10001

Me harder (*#ashington ost")

February 3, 1963

(1) Tee Taste

Harder closely foliows the cetails concerniny the dise
Continuation of atomic testa. Yron tis contacts with the
Adsinistration, he bas not received the impression that the
Soviet concession concerning the dinssectiong on the epot is
consiserad aa an exclusive propagan’a nave aad that it has no
Suystantial value whatsoever, This MGans actual progress,

The discontiauaticn of the take dn New York wis
ungxpected by everyvocy. tor the tinc being, it is belteved
that the "issin-s, Since they have mace a corcesaion, wish to
fake as such advantage as possible in Gineva, bLowever, tre
Hropaginda motives are not tia only onessy t ere can oe substantial
Procréss in Geneva in spits of the fact that it is easter to
Prooress whea sgly three ceertries are discussing.

   

Prosauly, Khreshchev wishes to use the discord of the
Heeterners and that is wby te dg making such roves, —-

(2) Ike Problen UcielSSR
Coben See tSSR

The proolea existing between the United States and tha
Soviet Union will not be so‘ved if “hrushchev decices to take
advantace of the conflict de “aubleel., S.A. 1t will be dad is
be tries to starpen the conflict by oxercizing pressures. Yhia
would sharpen the cold war everywhere,

in accition, Khrushchev snoste realize that the
donination of de Gaulle can end With Nestern jerrany couing on

top in bcesterm Eurcpe. Such a thing woild not te in the interest
of anydoiy,

  

According to information daternally odtaincd, de
saulle and the “ussians have not yet concluded anything concrete;
both parties wisn to Convey to the other nations the inpression
that an ixprovenent of the relations detween Trance and the
Soviet inion is possible, However, tris does aot ncan that
France and the Soviet Union have uncertaken concrete pourparlers;
at least, that is rot tre case for the time being.

LTH aR

 

aqme, eal Ge
 

TAL REVEL OAT CLA HE

   
   
 
 

104-10219-10001
4 MOUSE SELECT CONMITYER ON ASSASSINATIONS STAEF HEMDERS i
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassi fation
Records Collection Act of 1992 ; :
(44 USC 2107 Note)

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME: [yp EYER, KARL NW 53216 6/17/17

—LORSE »DACymENTS

 

 

 

 

INCLUSIVE DATES:

 

 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
‘ROOM:

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THLLED BENE Y DA MUIAIEA JT=

DATE DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

 

|| |

|

 

NO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

   
104-10219-10001

 

It seens that there was nothing substantially new in
the conversation Vino jraduvede Gaulle,

(2) Marder ts fncreagingly worried avout Cuca beenuse
there are miny clerents which can corse a sew crieis,

(a) The internal political pressure related to Cuba
{ms becoming Jncreas:ngly strony and unpleasant for ~ennedy,
Tre attacks of thoge whe affirm thut the Administration has again
Ririnized the Soviet strenyth in Cu a are becoming more and nore
convincing.

At the present tine, tho more noderate estinatlons
point out that there coutd v¢ avuut eigiteen thousand Soviet
troops on Cuva, wild estimations of tie Senate clinu up to
thirtyefour or thirtyefive thousand men.

 
  

(3) The question is for how long the Cu:ans can endure
the flights of tic S-erican aircraft over their territory and
the photograpi:ing of their land,

    

 

The Russdaas are training the bans in the manipulne
tise of the antiatrerart arvarent, The ssians are provauly
doing 90 for the virpose of teaching tle Cuuans to shoot down
tho American aircraft.

 
    

(c) Such a thing contd happen after the “:ssians leave
Cova and leave everytring in Cuvan hands,

(4) Tat ie why the situation da very canslicated,
Naxely, the United States cannot bear the presence of the Savieta
on Cyha. on tle other hand, an arned Cusa, without tho R-ssians,
could be less resnonsibdle.

>

 

Harder does not Xnow how and wetter all these problems
will be solved, liirder kuovgs that in tre contacts dctween the
Soviet Union und the United St:tes (the neeting “enaedye
Ruzaietsov, the necting Suat oorining which toox place the day
before yesteriay, the exch e of letters. setween c:rushehev and
Kennedy which is still goin; on) conercte solutions of these
problems are not being discussed.

  

(4) ve Gautle's veto was a hard blow to Great 3ritain
and to the Esropcan coxnon Market; it also has deranged Kennecy's
plans, And yet, there fs no consternation eithcr in the Adnin~
istration or in the white Youse. The Administration and the
White House do not conceive trat de Gaulle's nove is a dlow

 

Ae erninthen yes Sten at
104-10219-10001

. . . at3Ft3

TRANSLATION FELCH SERBO-CROATIAN

REPORT (A)

From the Yugvalay Embauay - Washington
fo the Coordination Dypartacnat - Belgrade

August 10, 19635

(1) Barrinan did not cove with anything nov
concerning Vietnaa.

He vas recoived by President Johneun for about
15 minutes.

lumodiately thereaftor, President J-bason had
rether long briefings with Congressavn at whi.h the positions
explained on the ocuseion of the last press conference
vere repeated.

eoe

(2) All the United dtutes data anc evaluations
poiat to the fact that neither Viet cong nox horth Vietnoa
will be resdy for negotiations before the end of the
Bons0on BeSBOn.

eeo

(3) According to internal conversations with
Utllianm Bendy, Secretary of StKte Rusk's Assitestaat for
tho Far Eaat, and with other functionaries oi tae White
Pouge and of the éralte Di partecni, it sccag that the
aicimug required by tho United States for a solution in
South Visinam ig a type of "Laoag soluttoa.” The effects
of this colution whould last for at least suuc yeaia.

Tale seans the ostablishsent of a neutralist
government in whi.h all the gain torces of the -ountry -~
Ancluding the Viet Crag -- sould te represented. It
would be possible to maintain the 1ormations of the
Viet Cong as in the case of the Patnet Lao formations.

(Gvertcman, blue card index)

 

beam
