74-0000

ay oe — 0 ONRRDENTAT™< C6 76-0732
ne . : . , 417-7

17 February 1976 |

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

i
’

SUBJECT: Sam Jaffe Phone Call to John Gittinger.

1. On 13 February 1976 retired CIA psychologist John
Gittinger called me at the office to say that he had been
contacted by Sam Jaffe and asked to provide information on
Nosenko's present whereabouts. He also asked Gittinger if
he was aware of Nosenko's charges against Jaffe and of in-
formation on Jaffe in some Soviet documents which CIA had.
“2. Jaffe had called Gittinger at‘his home on 11
February and again the evening of 12 February. He declined
to say who had given him Gittinger's phone number and con-
nected Gittinger with Nosenko. Jaffe claimed that he had
met Gittinger in 1960 in connection with the Powers/Abel
exchange with the Soviets. Gittinger told me that this was”
impossible since he had not been involved with Powers in
any way, but that had been the psychologist who
dealt with the Powers problem.

 

 

 

 

3. Jaffe recounted the story of the accusations against
him and their effect on his livelihood, and said that he
felt that he must clear himself by getting to Nosenko
directly. He told Gittinger about the DCI's memorandum
which cleared Jaffe of KGB agent involvement, but said that
the FBI still questioned Jaffe's bona fides. He asked
Gittinger if he really thought Nosenko was still in danger
from the Soviets. Gittinger told him that this was absolutely
true and Jaffe said that he doubted this.

4. Gittinger gave Jaffe no information and, in fact,
is in no position to help Jaffe either to further refine
Nosenko's information or to help Jaffe find Nosenko. Gittinger

. E2 IMPDET
. CL BY 012208

XAE- 999

 
‘Tina. Pn ; IBZERNAL
instal gicuassieteD 1 ey ___@ conrig
. \ coe ae ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

<

 

 

 

 

pment, to’ show fr
. Drow @ line cross column. after’ each ment.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bertram on

INTERNAL oO UNCLASSIFIE

 

   
74-0000

 

speculates that the kind of confused story which! Jaffe
has about Gittinger's involvement with Nosenko most likely
originated with Jim Angleton. -

 

Leonard McCoy
Chief, CI/R&A

cc: ADDO via C/CI
General Counsel
Inspector General .
Assistant to the Director, Mr. Thuermer
C/1SG

 
