 

 

+ CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

3. The Station realizes that a “pajort ty of dts. JMNAAS progren depends on leat-
lots, but it ia believed that it-is justified when the increasing amount of
Conmuniet | /propsganda being. produced in this manner is taken into considerations
Attached. for Head@darters only are exanples of La Tribiung's. ooveraie of ‘DCRTICES
visit os well. @san exaeple of the type of Cuban. ‘propaganda which is receiving

attention in Peru. a

Wo ei ihe

7 June 1960

Attachmentei - , ;
Leaflets, Headquarters and ‘Havana .
Rewapaper advertisements, Headquarters only
Leaflots, Headquarters and Havana
. Clippings and Leaflet, Headquarters only
Clippings, Headquarters only - .

Distributions .
(3)~ Hoadquarters, «/atts. as noted
= Havana, w/atts. as noted
2 = Filos, w/o atta.

 

 

Tee T — Tia? Taher
USE AEEVOLS ETON ae
 

(toatoroatoort} Loose

   
    

 

Theat ean wae AS

22 fideo

   

  

 

DISPATCH

  
  
  
 

    
   
   

 
  

TO Git of
Operational /AUCAGS/ LARS
Viait of Cuban President to Feru

Seat

  
   
    
    
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
      

 

;
| INDTMING CAN BE JUDGED
: i BY QUALIFED HQ DESK ONLY

 

 

DIR, 30833
B, DIR 32328

 

Le) Osvaldo DORTICCS, préesi¢eat of Cubs, “aptived in Lima on 4 June. where he was
met dy President FRADO and a Handful of diplogats and govermont officials. At.
‘the Peruvian ailitacy's insistance, no military ‘honors were accorded. The Feru- ~~
ian Government, acting at the last moment, ordered DURTICCS* plane to land ‘at
Las Paluss, a restricted military ouse, and in doing ad upset Aprista and Comiu-. —

. niet plans to hold a desonstration of Bup;ort at the alrpurt. Tue twomday visit
was gar.ed dy a rather.cold reception from. the local government and press, with.
only La Tribuna, the Apris.a newspaper, Living the visit front pace publicity.

In summary, S:ation Lina believes that DORTICVS" visit was a failure as ‘fara. -
increasing public sentiment in support of Cuba ia voncerned. a

 

 

2. The Staticn's KUCAUE effort to counter any adverse effects of DORTICUS* visit
wero instrumented by a variety of agents. The program Was as follows: : . .
he Station

Ly z

ae. Througt Bak, gore 15,000 oupicsa of a lesflet written by t
based on Refereitd A, were distributed in Lina on 3 Jung and 4 June, An eddi~
tional 10,00 copies of a sestlerlvaflet propared by (ERs) were also distri-"-
buted. Copies of these leaflets are forwardod as attachment Ay ’

; are gebieas 0% a ,

“be Cn 4 June) MY MAL devoted his noontime radio program to an atteck
against Conmmmist Fehetraticn wal manipulation ef the Cuban revolution. The pre=
gveti wag announced througi: paid newspaper advertisements which are forwurded for
Headquwrtere only as attachment 3. Reference B material was passed to [Cup pECLNaS

for his use on this progran. 0?

ead 92. : .

Go {Di ones axa, collaborating with Aprisia university students,
were responsible fcr erecting two large banners readin,, "Estatos con Cuba, pero
no al Cowunisze", one across the entrance to the airport and another across Ave-
nida Arequipa, ong of Lisa's gest traveled streets. Those banners were put up
early on 4 June arid later thas dsy Communist teams managed to destroy both of then
but not before they were seen ty tuousdnds of poorle.- In addition, 30,QG copies
_of three other leaflets, sttacteents C. were distributed before and during DORTI«
CES* Visit (2IDULISURGE reported taat the Coommicts were distributing leaflets
of their oun, attachment D for Besdquarters only, and one of his distribution tesis:
was attacked in the vieicity of San Harceas University. .

. da. In addition to highli sting atk -cistR0, anti-Cocmunist material on his
4 and 5 Juno radio and TW prograzs, [BUBxEAd also made use of a serics of articles
from Caracas opposing DORTAS visit to tant country D@These articles were for=-
warded by Staticn| Caracas\ami sate aveilable to DUBREAD by Station Li a3) ,/ (BupRsso
gave the articlee tO Aurelio MISC Quesada of EI Conercio, who in’ turn presented
then at tie editorial board meeting of his paper. £1 Conurcio, taking the clip-
pings as an exazple of hecispneric solidarity acainst DNTICCS" trip, altered its
own policy sosewnst and in both editorial, and news colunna attacked. the DCRTICS*
visit. The articles sre forwarded as ortechnee for Headguartcrs only.

e. [29 Gro, in the 4 Sune issue of tnefBptien0- magazine, launched an
attack arainst APMA and especisity Amando ANU for his support and promo-
tion of the CASTRO reveluticn. According to DULL FORGE, this article was auch
discussed by the Apristas, caraing a grest many second thoughts on the continuation

of APRA support fcr Cubas .
[Fe f2e- rs e&
ee et nn

 

 

   

  

. 7 . RETURN TO CIA.
d Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

(WER.

 

 
