 

  

40054-40401 oo ay ee

   

  

 

a a ieee

= 2 Och Gqar>

Bonk,

 

 

. inside Washington’ oe

 

 

CIA Withheld Vita

I

 

 

ntelligence From War

   

.. By ROBERT S. ALLEN cials who actively oppose on has yet to be ‘used dismissal of such persons liquid «
. And PAUL scoTr “Soviet policies. — against any high West. from public office, at oth- form. The
: Titled “Soviet Strategic ern official, hundreds of er times even having -within™ sec
. WASHINGTON, Oct.20. Executive Action,” the KGB agents covertly op- | them’ ‘eliminated’: physi- - autopsy we
w—The Central Intelli- suppressed CIA docu- erating outside of Russia cally. oo. - ils use. >
gence Agency withheld -mentwentintothe shock-. have been supplied with “Such activities are ‘poisons hai
. vital. intelligence infor- ing details of how agents. this pocket-size, gun, “known to be. undertaken ed which ¢
‘mation from the Warren of KGB, the Soviet secret awaiting only. orders against other types of fect until
Commission during its in- police, are trained to do from Moscow to use it, persons in the West, not-.-after being
vestigation of the assas-. away With Western lead- The Murder Weapons « apy, defectors from the: “thus allowi.
, sination. of President ers, including officials in HIGHLIGHTS of the U.S.S.R. and from other - to be far f:
Kennedy. - 7 o the U.S., and to make suppressed intelligence countries of the Soviet-..when his ¥
Despite the~commis- their deaths appear due ‘estimate, which is locked bloc. 7 “iA Kno
- sion’s written request for to natural causes, in a security area within “One recently reported source has
~.* all documents that might One of the KGB’s new- the tightly-guarded CIA, assassination technique is pneumatica.
shed Hight on the assas- ly devised assassination are as follows: to electrocute an Individ- poison ice
sination, CIA authoritias wapons:-is .“a. pnumati- "It has been reported ual by luring him to which Jeay
failed. to turn over a na- cally. operated poisom ice.. that the KGB endeavors use a telephone, connect- pr other ev
* . tional intelligence esti. ‘atomizer,’. which leaves to remove~the:.threat to ed to a high-voltage wire, .cauise of de
‘mate warning that it is .no wound or other -evi- Soviet interests:posed by during a thunderstorm. Congressi
Kremlin policy te remove dente of the cause of-. certain-:members of West- .-“Another involves the gators, whc
. §rom public office by as-- death’* << vu ~ .*" erm governments, some- use of a pistol which that the ni
:. .Sassination Western offi- While.this deadly weap- | times. arranging. forthe + projects a poison gas in - committec.

  

. 2.7 have. “been.

  
 
 

Saeacaung | apes

Suppressed evidence Link.”

ing Oswald “with one of .
- its ewmpioyes, who ae

cording to security

viet agent who arrived .
in the US. in 1943, ne. *

   

'

 

a
No. 2

“methods,

   

authority

  

fording to~ overument the Cuban embassy. The

. . aia ni -
gatos oma | investi latter vist a Tt fie
Fpocked ta disse rie Kennedy's: fssaasination .""

in Dallas,

  

  
 
 
  

 
  
              
      
   
  
 
