13-00000

" SEDRET
file on OSWALD and pass them to us, and the FBI gave us a copy of the
Soviet Consular file on OSWALD which haé been publicly given by the Soviet
Ambassador to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 December 1963, Deputy
Attorney General Katzenbach invited us to review the FBI's comprehensive
report on the case to make sure our sources were not jeopardized and that
our information was correctly quoted. We found the report highly
interesting and no threat to our security, as long as it was read only
by the authorized investigative bodies.

After the first few days, the CIA investigation of the case was
handled at Headquarters by a small staff usually chargeé with investigation
and analysis of the most important security cases, and by a few officers
and analysts of our Western Hemisphere Division.

Reports From Mexico

As soon as our Mexico City Station realized that Lee OSWALD was the

prime suspect, it began re-screening all the written telephone transcripts
@
in its files covering the Soviet Embassy for the pertinent period. The

actual tapes were also reviewed, but many of them had been erased after the

SECRET

ese.

 
13-00000
oe * SECRET |

normal two weeks wait. Several calls believed to involve OSWALD were
discovered and their contents cabled te Washington, where they were
disseminated to the White House, the State Department, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
OSWALD's name was not actually mentioned in these additional calls,
but similarity of speech and various plain points of content link them
to him. These calls are summarized below in chronological order.
They cover the period ‘trom 27 September 1963 to 3 October 1963, the whole
span of OSWALD's visit to Mexico City as later learned from travel records.
ea 27 September - A man phones the Soviet Military Attache and
says he needs a visa to go to Odessa. Man answering says he should call
15-60-55 and ask for the Consul. Caller asks for the address, and it is
given to him. (There is no special reason for linking this call to OSWALD.)
27 September, 4205 PM - The Cuban Consulate phoned the Soviet.
Consulate. Silvia Duran, Mexican national clerk of the Cuban Consulate
talked to a Soviet official, saying that a male American citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit visa to pass through Cuba on his way
13-00000

 

our overseas stations, and many pieces of information on OSWALD and his
wife had been received back. The Mexico City Station researched its
telephone taps very thoroughly and came up with several more conversations
probably invelving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this name; these
connected him also to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. Several Mexicans
were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a good picture
of what he was really up to. Many conferences were held with the FBI
liaison officer who asked us for certain actions and passed us information
from the FBI investigation. On the minus side, a host of fabricators,
some anonymous, bombarded overseas embassies with spurfous tips on the case,
most of which we investigated. All of these are soon aiscreaitea, but they
are still coming in.

During this phase of our work, we served primarily in support of the
FBI, which was entrusted by the President with the major responsibility for
the investigation. The FBI was too busy to supply us with much of its
own information, but answers were given to specific questions we posed to

assist our investigation. The Department of State did photograph its entire

SEGRE,

 
13-00000

as the possible assassin and asking for traces. The message was passed
on at once by the Chief CI, Mr. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Neal of his
Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. Betty Egeter of this Unit immediately
recognized the name of Lee OSWALD and went for his file. At the same
time, Mrs. Bustos of the Mexico Desk, who had written our first report on
OSWALD on 10 October recognized the name from radio reporte and went
after the same file. Mr. Reichhardt, Mexico Desk Chief, who was home on
leave, heard the news and phoned in a reminder that we had something on
OSWALD. While we were preparing a cable to Mexico City asking them for

‘

more information on OSWALD, Mexico City itself heard OSWALD's name on the

Voice of America broadcast and cabled to us a reminder of the information

the Station had sent in on him.

For the next week, a dozen people in the Agency were continuously ;
engaged in handling incoming messages on the case, writing reports to be
cabled out, tracing the names mentioned, and researching files. Within a
week, 27 cabled reports had gone out to the White House, the State Depart-

ment, and the FBI. Many cables of guidance and inquiry had been sent to

 

 
13-00900

Embassy was not OSWALD anyvay- 4s chance would have it, none of our
several photo obsemation points in Mexico City had ever taxen an identi-
fiable picture of Lee OSWALD.

Our Mexico City Station very often produces information like this
on UB citizens contacting Seviet bloc embassies in Mexico City. Frequently
the information we get is extremely incriminating, and on one or two
occasions we have even been able te apprehend and return te the USA
American military personnel who are attempting to defect. In all such
cases, our Headquarters desk requests and obtains the special permission of
the Deputy Directer for Plans to pass the derogatory information on a US
citizen to other government agencies. Derogatory information on Americans
is not treated routinely; in each case the DDP or his Assistant personally
serutinize the information, make sure it is credible, and decide whether and
to whom it will be passed. Only in absolute emergencies is the Mexico City
Station authorized to pass such information directly to the FBI office in
the U.S. Embassy.

At this writing (13 December 1963) we do not know what action the FBI

 
13-00000

C genet

and other agencies may have taken based on our report. We surmise that the

FBI way have made local checks through Mexican authorities to see if

Lee OSWALD was actually in Mexico City on 1 Octeber. Indeed, later in-

vestigation has confirmed all the details of his trip, where he stayed,
and what he did. To avoid crossing lines with the FBI, our Mexice Station
undertook no local investigation of its own. As we now know, OSWALD left

Mexico on 3 October and was no longer there when our report was put out.

 

 

Since this telephone tap operation is

 

 

 

 

the Mexicans also had the 1 October intercept on Lee OSWALD,

 

 

but it apparently slumbered in their files until the assassination took

place.

22 November 1963

When word of the shooting of President Kennedy reached the offices
of our operating divisions and staffs on the afternoon of Friday 22 Noven-
ber 1963, transistor radios were turned on everywhere to follow the
tragedy. When the name of Lee OSWALD was heard, the effect was electric.

A phone message from the FBI came at about the same time, naming OSWALD

 
13-00900

We Discover Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

CTA aid produce one very significant piece of information on Lee
OSWALD before he shot President Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our Mexico
City Station intercepted a telephone call Lee OSWALD made from someplace
in Mexico City to the Soviet Embassy there, using his own name. Speaking
broken Russian and using his true name, OSWALD was talking to the Embassy
guard, OBYEDKOV , who often answers the phone. OSWALD said he had visited
the Embassy the previous Saturday (28 September 1963) and spoken to a
consul whose name he had forgotten, and who had promised to send a tele-
gram for him to Washington. He wanted to know if there were "anything
new." The guard said if the consul was dark it was (Valeriy Ylaamirovich):
KOSTIKOY. The guard checked with someone else and said that the message
had gone out but no answer had been received. He then hung up.

This piece of information was produced from a telephone tap center

 

 

It

 

 

 

 
 

TERNAL,
=3E. ONLY

 

in, room, number, and

 

 

 

 

 

people ‘preparing the°final-repert.
in ‘writing this .us,.I have. :

certain emount. of atialysis, :

the naked facts seemed to call for
ite | These ‘ ‘thoughts are my‘ .
Feel free” ‘te make ‘your own, analysis

 

 

Te. you. have any corrections. te make

please write them on this éraft and

return it te me. I will.ret he
“| draft te"you Af! you wawt its. “Te

Tais repert was written for interna
use-only anda was net meant ta be
used outside the Agency.

 

JM. Whitten
c/wa/3

 

 

 

 

rome 610 “mens? (] SECRET © ([] CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL §=——C]_sUNCLASSIFIED
 

is highly secret and

 

 

 

 

 

Our joint center produces great

 

masses of telephone intercepts which are transcribed and reviewed by our
small staff in Mexico City. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone conversa-
tion of 1 October had been transcribed and a summary of it cabled to
Washington. The name Lee OSWALD meant nothing special to our Mexico
City Station, but in their report they did judge him to be an American
male.

The cabled report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked
in our files, where it was immediately noted that the Lee OSWALD phoning
the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City was probably the Lee OSWALD who had =...
defected te the Soviet Union in 1959 and returned to the USA in 1962. On
10 October 1963, the day after the report from Mexico City, CIA Headquarters
sent out a cableé report about Lee OSWALD's phone call to the Soviet
Embassy; the report went to the FBI, the Department of State (because
OSWALD was a US citizen), and to the Navy Department (because he was 4

former Marine.) The ‘cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

 
13-00000

ste grape €

liklihood that the Lee OSWALD mentioned was probably the former defector.
A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, with which we have no cable link. The same day
@ long cable went out to Mexico City informing our Station of the back-
ground of defector Lee OSWALD and asking for more information. Our Station
was instructed to pass its information on the phone call to the Mexico
City offices of the FBI, the Embassy, the Naval Attache, and the Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Service. This was done.

In its original report of 9 October, Mexico City had said it had a
photograph of an apparent American male leaving the Soviet Embassy on
L. October 1963, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation
in Mexico City provides us with secretly taken photographs of many but not
all visitors to the Soviet Embassy there, taken with telephoto lenses.
Accordingly, we cabled the Navy Department on 2k October 1963 asking for
a photograph of Lee OSWALD from his Marine Corps days so we could compare
photos. We had not received this photograph by 22 November 1963, but in

any event, it turned out that the man photographed outside the Soviet

‘a Side

 

 
