13-00000

| REPRODUCTION
SET PROMIBITED

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIII

  

1. DIR 74673,. 0 “October 1963 - dissemination
to Department of State, Department of the

Navy “and:the..Federal Bureau of Investiga-
. [FOIA Now/6- 3]

  
  

 

. <Ynternal: Nete. From ROCCA to HELMS, dated
March. 1964. [XAAZ-22803 - FOIA No.

3. Int al Note from ANGLETON to ROCCA,. ‘dated
12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809 - FOIA No~ "689
298]

  

4. Memorandum for RANKIN, dated 1 ely. 1964 ‘
subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time
in Helsinki on 10 October 1959. _{Duplieate
of FOIA No. 758-325] wo as

 

 

0062136

REPRODUCTION seme
PROWIBITED =

ate ssibaR eae neem ome wt . . fae ee
13-00000

were mee ee tomo

REPRODUCTION
PROUIeUTED

    

cl
. Rewritten: RHelms/eed ~ 1 July 6h:
Distribution: Orig & @ ~ addresse:

 
   
 

be

REPRODUCTION —
-. PROGIBITED -

aoe

Pion) Richard Helms

i

RD.

pace _ Lot a
COPY Oe ennai
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

 

O8 2155

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the. Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of
the passport to the man to come back to this country and that

has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc. - i
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the .
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be i
sure that whatever is said in the report is conférred in and it

is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will
have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said
and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make.

Dci: Well that will be fine. Thank you
Hr Good bye.
(tape) mcm

cc: DDCI . :
DD/P :

 

> SEOREI

REPRODUCTION =
PROMISED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

“|

es wl (602134

Gwe d ae

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J, EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m. tee

DCI:

EB:

DCI:

DCI:

SECRET

RePRoOUeTION =

Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have

i just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection
with your investigation of the situation in Dallas. I know
the importance the President places on this investigation
you are making. He asked me personally whether CLA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I just
wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

 

We have had the very best support that we could possibly '
expect frorn you.

Good. ‘Well you can call on us for anything we have,
We will feel free to do that

I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and I am delighted that the President has called on you to
make it.

We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various
wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man

was the right man etc. that fired the gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have
dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter i: Mexico City.
We have now found that the. photograph that was ta cen was not :
that of Oswald. We do find from our informant do.m there that
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has - |
given us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit i
to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him :
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it waild take three

 

"weeks. He had, I think, ‘a visitor's permit for about a week or

ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

those operational sources down there. We want to handle them
very carefully. It involves some very high level people down
there. Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.

Kibo bcad

"Mc. Katzenbach ' Who is handling j it for the Department - .

it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, he will
of course go over it very carefully because it will be a report
that will be released to the public, probably through the White

‘PROGIBITED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
, PROHISITED

°6. The second point in the referent memorandum

concerns the pape: iy were available at Headquarters
on Oswald before aay of the assassination. Speaif-
ically, there rae ve documents which had been \to

. the Agency befs ai ze sth @ assassination. Two of th ents

     
  
 
  
 
  

had been sent: ‘BY the FBI, two by the D
State, and: ey FAN S Navy. A 201 file
had bes ‘opaned-o \gBecember 1960 on the@as
rece’ rk SAIVSt of these five doc

eporting

ny CYC :
of the pecs co had. not
as yet be ae tinent cables
from Mexico City were Heid at the Mexico b¥anch at Head~
quarters, while the data contained in them had been
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were
incorporated inte the file. following the assassination -
and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
including the Warren Commission.

 

7. %&It should be noted that no particularly great
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald hefore the assassination because Qswald's
name had-no parpar

ar meaning before that fate event.

 

S regarding the records we pi ed
Ration as well as the m
System were explai:

     

at the tige. From all I have heard regatding this visit,
the visitors were satisfied with our records system and
the manner in which we kept our records.

Peul iiartran

‘wemooucrog =
| PROMIBITED ain
18-00000

sORET REPRODUCTION
vais or canons ~—— P NOUTIBITED
———
Paar |

fe rReoweoR gy a
PROHIBITED |
13-00000 oo ~

REPRODUCTION
PROIBITED

: - CONFIDENTIAL Ex= 0132

  
  
   

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

pare
< ptorandun Midgley and the DCI,
SS’ pated 6 September 1975

  
  

1. The referent memorandum contains two points
which require comments. The first point concerns
allegations that were made shortly after the assassination
of President Kennedy and that ve crept up every so often
since then. In one form or &o; x, the allegations are
that Lee Harvey OSWALD hadepes / connected with the Agency.
The allegations are toteNey wEORR ded.

&

   
  
 
 

  

2. The facts re fatter are as follows:

 

a. On 2 3 I was instructed by
Mr. R.G.Roc Ry macaw te superior at that time, to
make a tho: check\pithin the Agency at Headquarters
to determin e ee Harvey OSWALD had ever been

conceivable way. ie ordered me to make the checks

-. directly and personally to the degree possible and not
to accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex-
plained that he was following instructions from-Mr. R. |
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one. of ‘the
Agency's key contact officials with the Warren. . :
Commission. Le

b. Although I had already checked the Main: Index I
of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, I ae
rechecked the Main Index and found no ‘record beyond
that which I had already obtained.before (plus: those
items which had been integrated into the- records system
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO
records which indicated any Agency connection with .
OSWALD. :

 

fa
’

jee FOL Review on NOV 1576 i RECORD COPY | | !

"CONFIDENTIAL hep?

REPRODUCTION . : 8 002105 - . ig 2
PROHIBITED —

 

7
104-10266-10006

 

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

 

 

3. Memorandum for Chief, Ci Staff,» dated 18 Sep-
tember 1975; subjeet:. Allegations of Lee
Harvey OSWALD's Connection with the Agency. i
[EX-10932 - FOKA No. 1188-1000]

 

GUG2404

REPRODUCTION | sate - re _ 8
PROMIBIMED

 
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
PROTIBITED

ye ( SONFIDENTIAL (

 
 

c. The n ‘component I checked was DCD.
There was no esord in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements: were thén made for me to check
be sephonica tly “with -each DCD base in the US. The
chiefs a the” bases. “then serached their records .
and spoke awit hey fair officers. I was then advised

. £ \ehiefs or their designees individ-

mee “ Cenere Nghtets been no contact with OSWALD.
ie

nm checked with’ Division D, SE Division,
and LA’ ft sion's Cuban Operations Group (COG) for
any informal desk records. The results were like-
wise negative.

  

e. Through the Secu®iity Research Section
(GRS) of the Office ects a ity I had the security
files checked. mere o record of OSWALD.

  

  
    
 
 

Sf . © records on Americans,
Se gan, and Cuban holdings
thai\they may have recorded
ot was no record in those

x &

ow
g. is Bence the chief of the CI Staff's
Administrative 0 ce called the Office of Personnel
and received the word that there was no record on an
employee or an applicant for employment named Lee
Harvey OSWALD.

£. Although ¢
I checked their &
on the remote
something on
. files.

  

h. I also chécked the Office of Medical .’.
Services and found no record on OSWALD. 7

 

- ad. The Covert Action Staff also foulia no record
on him.

 

j.- Finally, I also checked the records: “of the
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group: (ez/oa) with
negative results.

 

 

k. My checks were completed’ on 4 December 1963
and I then sent a brief informal note to Mr. Rocca

,

 

‘CONFIDENTIAL

Repenouriog lg
PROUBITED =
13-00000 3

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITER

 

Sa ( QOHADENTIAL a

 
 
      

yothe checks I had made and stating
showed that Lee Harvey OSWALD
onnection whatsoever with the
ry a statement to this effect
to the Warren Commission. . |

  
 

: checks regarding use or employment ~~ —_
of 0 D Bakween requested by the foreign divisions - 3
of théir Bee priate stations, I was told, and he -
results were negative. .

 

4. I recall very clearly that we were extremely .
concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an American: returning
. from the USSR, might have been routinely debriefed by
pcp, thus having established contact with the Agency.
The same point has now, quite understandably, beén made
by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this
subject I have personally concluded that there is valid
. Yeason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time. \
He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD
had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before
1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners,
particularly by Americans, before that time was quite
uncommon and we were hungry for eyewitness information in
those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end
of that decade ae ere so many persons travelling to
and from the Sovwz ststnion that DCD was incapable of talk-
ing to all of fhe Therefore, a program of selectivity
and speci ticefanset, pplicability was instituted. In
light of th@& th@\abd eS seems to me that OSWALD-- if he :
in at all--would have easily been . i
simply did not possess the type of
rat D was seeking at that time. DCD would
a ts limited manpower on travellers who
eos access in the USSR.

Be ge hould be added that my above-described
search in Whe Agency file holding produced no record or
indication that any other US Government agency had -used i
him as a source or had considered him for recruitment. |

   
  

 
 
  

(=

 

CONFIDENTIAL

RepRopuerion ==" vce 4p 18
PROLIBITED | _
