‘a gtsa

‘ _f mahal eo
tnay to1de im
. vita molace LU

we noe bo an
LIS Laavapbele: P02 Loscont o7-Feb GCs- Heplacerens. Tyan SEG: 2EF
Bh at £0 . - .

4 aces arn fete
sme yer; ieians wide.

 
 

wy,

SR/2/CE
9 Dec 58

ar L 37
59

 

 

GOLUB, Origoriy Ye.

“Subj suepected of belonging to the KOB,

- Oh
On 21 May[VALINK/1) was informed by GOLUB that he (G,) had been surmoned to
Leningrad for a atg w/a repn of the Soviet Internal Security Police (presumably
MVD). While there, GOLUB had beon instructed to determine what security peocaution
the Police of Sweden, Norway and Denmark plan to take to insure the safety of —
KARUSHCHEY during his August visit to the Sean countries, During the conversation,
G, was very oritical of his Soviet colleagues in Stos, Oslo ani Cope, for their
failure to develop close relations w/repna of the Security Police of those -

- countries. G. was vorried not only about hia oun inability to develop the infe

requested, but also.for the safety of K. during this trip. G. did not know
for aure whther K. would visit Finland on this trip, but believed that if he did,
it vould occur after the visit to the other 3 sommirieny and. that any visit to

Fini. would: be purely unofficial,

¥
SAE ANE cS:

Qa CORD ISS

os

Ratoni

QA Orumurse

7

13 Mar 59

2 59

OFRA)U2S
27 Row 59

aaa a
ol Garte7ey

Oo Oks a

Ol

 

undated —

Olgoniurey

 

‘tee Tirnish border in a Lodje auto, hearing License plate 3F-153,

invest,
Ee 5) farms and th

 

GOLim, Grigerty Yes

S rontl

“ostille (Bary) said that GOL'P's Firnitsh is ex-ellent and that G. -laixs
te know no Sryeliehs ‘ioweves, wien “, wis paving a2f Daraliy wiiaonisn, GOLUB
was able to put these Pylish words into Ninnish. |

3900 Subj told Costille (KUDARK) that he had been in Fin] now for about four years

and that he had been enjoying himself very much and liked Finl and the Finns,
Be enid that be was glad that hedid not speak English as he vould then probably
be sent to England or the U.S., which in his opinion vere too far frou his bome
in the Soviet Union, Accdg to Subj, this made travel hoze, as well as phons
calls, too expensive. When Costille asked him where he would like to be sent
naxt, he anavered Moscow. - He stated that over three years was tou long to be

avsy frou ' ‘° .
Sireet (Vim Oftiolal in Mintetry of Interior. OF

Qn 26 March GOLUB, Sov Consul in Hels, said WRUSBUREY planning pay unofficial
visit to Finl at end his Scandinavian trip in late- august, GOLUB hoped there
would be no Soviet spy cases male public to becloud visit, (Source comments

 

 

bh cases presently unier preparation b:

 

Wich had ‘hen given to the U.S. Consulate by GOLUB, {Hos coment: The fores
evidently went. to SR from 231 - they did not cone’ into ¥n/1/ce)

   

Stathsn subaitted trree forss dealing «/fovie Trigration and eitivenship ~

Sn 1 Dee Source said that GOLUB had toldQ@aLmy/i) that a vestern agent, who

 

eressed the Fi-nish-Soviet border near Imatra on 132 ‘1959 had been arrested
amd vas being held by the Soviets, SCLUB did not r-veal the nane of the agent, -
tut said that he had been trained in Austria, To the station's knowledga,
RADSOX missions run via Finland tw FUSARK since 1953. Does

wy ESTSOX aunts who disappeared in May? Or is GCLU3 making
up _the story? (To Division for answe-) .
\ secuel to info
ealled Roodine (F %
an urgent -attereemat
GCLUB had reported to{¥ AM at a western agent h-d been arrested in the
Sev Union near Inatra, but on the Sov side of the border, G6, had seid that
the avent had teen recurited in *witzerland and dispiteched across the border
on 19 Kay of 1959, The arent had come to Hels on 17 May and had been net by a-
nan described as betreen 35 arid 35 yrs old, about 170 cn, tall; the -an ssoked a
pipe, spoke good =nglish and passable Finnish, ‘nls man had driven the azent to

Warng/a] 04

ted and found that the car wis om ed byGerrevson's (unilateral of | Olo -
4 At therefore that [EUSARt, might be involved. He wanted
to warn us, so called Roodine, 2 ine checked our 3 military attaches’ offices
w/meg results and then went to[orr vson,if Sind out if he had even loaned his
ear for anv such trips or was somehow Thvolved indirectly. Negative ancwers
“eodine thinks the vboe stor’ is provocation, concocted hy the Soviets and
set afoot thru GCLUB to serve as a counteretlance to recent revelations of
Sow espionage in Finl, (See cb veint Weeks for 11 Lee 59)(sic), oodein goes
ea to say that it is interesting that the Communist newspaper Eansen Uutiset
ewwrled an editorail on the LCth of Lee accusing the Security Police of nob
investigating cises of wostern-esoiona-e, STReerare
Hols on 7? bev and surprised hin after an absence of
2/5) states that tre rvlations"ip anpears ts be the
rs, G, Loft, @ H cen 43 glint to have hor back,

cds: 2/5 Yrs

 

 

          
 
 
   

at R's home and said that he would Like to see him on

 

   

 
   
 
  

aLYRts wife rotd to
avout & ronths OY:
gore as it eas befor
Me vife is cs friend)
teh refers to

 

 
 
   

 

 

   

te dd

WPS

11a =H}8237, arove., On y bee about 0830 pre, (CaLiKja) OV
 

 

 

 

 

 

* 14350156

, Grigoriy Y, coLua
~ coxa eont! a
Yorsa 3859 = On :13 Apr Costills (upars) nad lunch w/Sabj at which time C's treatsent
Av” dpe 59° in the Soviet n {see (6! 9) was brsaght up, ox detaile of this
- lengthy report jchronos . :
Cormal3om Detaled report on acte wl Sp RSE/3 and(AEPAWNEE/5, Seo:

New 59 to meet and entertain the Am Vice Consul, wo bad been subject to almost.
weekly telephone calla. and invitations durisg the spring and early sumer.
Subj'a new reticence dates from Aug, 15 whee he vas entertained by Am Vice
Consul st a dinner in a Hels dance-restaurxt. Since that time Subj
hes called the Vice Consul only once to take him to lunch on Oct, 12,
OPHA}4223 “ringing kes up to date ra ASPs S-GCLE relationship, Continue to see

sy lo dud spatch in his 201 folder, -
rs U6 artic. noticesble has been virtual cossatton of attempts by ths/VAfiSubj

  

i : undated w2ach other on wee':ly basis, ote. For details see dispatch in his 201 file,

OFEA]4359 — Tscusston of Sourco's casim to ro-Chink ris the USSR (VLladivostoklon the:
Trans

 

 

 

iberian Satlread, then thru Chira etaclas ot Peting and Stanchat, 4
coerce! Chinese visa, ete, OLUR

   

   
   

  

ads

ther

        

to Yoktor ?d sec on dinl List. %

 

“nb in Yels,

 

ned

 

eex:ld, ete, Prior to GOLUTs

said

oscov and Tsronsthie)

 
 

SONTAMTS.. 5
ois

a aur 68

ae

3694
58

 

(i a000
13 Mar 59

Bape

r 59
aa Coit 3859
17 Apr 59

ee

23 May 59

Qh

‘Lorni) 3906
12 May 59

 

GALUS, triporiye *.

 

Sect, Soviet Consul worpiacet 1.0. LYEY, dcined tne uelsinsd
Consatar Corps, which had srevi yonai no SinosSoviet bioe representative,
in the fall of L9S7, Since the “nsuiar Corps is rot seecificaliy a

Bwestern® oouy, une corps nac no valid reason to refuse hin entry. 4s
far as {9 known, no other Sino~Soviet sloc representatives have folicved
LU into the Corps. .

Su

 
 

 

  
 

 

  

. “oatille, KUBARK, attended a consular “or ps un-heon on 10 Dee $8—2uring

luncheon %, was introduced as nev Vi-e-“onsul from U.S.—after lum-h GOLIB -ame
directly up to “osti:le, introdured himself and asked ©, to join him at his ~
table for -offee ami rognar, Sudj was extrenely friendly and Froseated to ask
the usual. PRQ-1 type questions, surh as “ostille's howe in States, how long he'd
been in Finl, did he have a dipl title, et-, Subj mentioned that his vife waa

in the Sov Union and that he vas living alone in his apt. Subj speaks no Snglish,
so Finnish vas used,

(Hye eomments: A-photo cane in w/this dispateh—vostille;. GaLus ani 6 others,

Fhoto sent to SR/2/rE for filing.)

On 13 Feb “oatille was invited to lum-h by GOLUB; lum-h lasted for 3 bra,
(For details sea GOLUS's 202: folder in whieh this ref is Med, > or see cony
in Finland's chronoa.} er a

“Result ef Cost{lleta- (wapakR) SSSR Trip. See chrene in Finland,
ive te Contact w/Co1a en 13 “pr $9, See chrore in ‘inland.

Fie ea rota to Hole 16 May. She on sane train Leningrad to Bele w/GOLUS
who said he accompanied Sov writer to Leningrad, & Subj discussed :
current events and-Subj's views Sov interest Fink>YAR/5)atated Subj friendly, ©
balpfu during baggage check and did not appear suspicious her trip. Subj
has phoned [KE/: [e/s| thee for lunch sines return, She not able go but intends
te it necrt o! at
rO[VALINE/1) sald Subj wont Leningrad to Meet Sov Internal Security Police
Pens re security measures KERUSHCREV Scandinavia trip.

On & May Subj phoned Costille (KUBARK) for lunch that day. -Most of the time wes
apent on polite conversation and no political topics vere discussed, Subj asked
€, about hie home and family in the States and his vacation plans, Subj mentions
that be was not going to be able to take a vacation this ewaner as be had hoped,
When C. asked him why, he gave the reason that the Aud, whom Subj dexrcribed as
still being new and not quite sure of himself yet, had told him he wanted hin

to remain in Hala as he was the only person of officer rank in the ‘onsular
Section, (Comments. Maybe. it's cause KHRUSHCHEV is coming to Hels this sumer.)
Not ‘once during’ ‘the lunch did” the subject mentionsd in refe (C's trip to USSR
and treatment accorded him).come up. (For any further ecements see Min) chronos)

3097 “Recently Subj has been making efforts to invite younger menbers of the
"8 May 1959 Western embassies to lunch or to view Soviet movies playing at local movie

Bens qe 2

houses, Subj invited Howard B, Singleton(Canadian), Aydin Yegen (Turk)
» another Soviet « Makayev - at these two luncheors acting as interpreter,
Costille.was just interrupted ty s phone call frou Subj inviting hin to -

lunch. A}
asked for info on GOLUS & B. NAISTE esting that both Seriet officials

* 21 Apr 59 have been in social contact v/zire. of the[S™ “ADD Lagation-in Bals, This contact
. instigated by GOLUB was allegedly to inqure wet Bt tion procedure,
an MAFBYEV acted as G's interpreter throughout the tg 2 /SKaBLE 3 a trace in their
on, files referring to GOLUB as Soviet Intell Officer €7 (Sass a8 liaison man w/the

Finnish Security Police,
  

 

      

AN . f ob
On the evening of 10 omt [w/e wife were nef renie y hoe for
cimer and could not resist the urge te brinkvur tha Part Ol Mrreyson
case, Ye had read the intersoration. ret whien haa béen prepared
by one of his “en and had subsequently talked to SLUB on LIB s
initiative, QOLIY had called him @ invited him to luabdh and h,
Seseribed the incident at the alrnort quite factually, but vA. ol
placad very little credence in the accuracy of the accoupt. OOLUB
said that in view of the fact that the sia American. athletes were —
left behind todawait visas, he could well understand that Torreyson |
had needled {VgPI Mito the point of exasperation, He does not
believe that any.thing further wilt come of the case. Certainly .
_ tha Ministry of Interlor plans to forget about it unless a new
protest comes from the Soviet Anbassador, OOL'B told{¥/1 that 0!
ACES Dad behaved stunidly in the,whole affair and hag been ree
called to the Soviet linion. wi blys he has already departed}) : :
wo (CLTS also stated that(WePTh Ns a worried and upset, man. Apparently the,
-Soviets, or at Least MLB, do not believe (VéPID'g ait story, ace W/Ly Dl .
The reason for this doubtfulness 1s that when the siapping incident otcurred
ase b gn speaying Fnriish to Torreyson. GOLUB thought 4t strarige”
TDA he speaks Finnishvwell, shoudl not use that language |
in speaki to forreyson, who-also has a fair comtand of Finnish. _
ia ‘ 3 tera ef ‘business

 

    
   
  
 
  

    
  
  
 
 
 
 

  

“2 dunech u/lowree, to

 

es previows
personnel

   

ortega that
suthorities) »

  
   
 
  
 
 

zeopla® wns not
fed retuer

subj rose
here?" :

  

 
   

     

“>. Corb 3593 “as ter (eas) { (atation )have
, 1? ont 58. departure of WaRI¢ since his name wia wentisned by G. E, GOLOS when
Ca oC he avis fie t tof ieaD garding WACINE H tanta w/Americanss +
Sof CHUA P1Z7, 24 Jan 1958,) a
abs A

   
 
 
 

   

         

 

 

 
 

Oo -
26 July 572. pieptrren.z0 ssid Subj's face vas fsuiliar to himy vhen given the
source #aid there vas a Lt. Cal, GCLUS in the MGB (now KGa),

[aorwater)

cee 2082

OFF
16 Nov 56

VAINGLORT &S,

mA) 2118

7.2-Corm)eno

Ve

Do YWlrepiied in stern & angry nacner, “Since when does a little ainl

[pursue the question. (Gt

 

~ SECRET

  
   

Souree did not know which directcrats he was in = might be technical
section - but knew that he was a "fairly high boss." ‘Source could
net recall whether he hei ever seen Subj zo doos not know if Shis is
the sane person, 7 DL Fal) ao
Sarly Aug 57, Subj called onf¥soTst/lfand asked that{¥/lJvarn hin -
2 of any Sov official were shout To be png'd from Finland & he
wound pursonaily ave to it that the oan left quictly.& immediately.

   
    
 
  

   

 

   

 

     
 
 
 
 

w/loe rank of 2d See presume that he is 30 reverful as to renove officfale

of hts om country from Firl? If you are really that nowerful, who are ra

anyway 4 what aro your r geties here in Firl? "Sub jflisturbed aig no
ent: Subj's question interesting in view

GENING eper. Trying to determine. date of chat.)

Neg Corl ADITER39 iden.
ete >

   
 
  

    
  
  

  
 
 

a 7s
COMTAETS
i, Spares favited te give leatures on math in USSR. Seon after re=

-eeiving the invitation, he and wife were in bar of Heleink! reetaurant, -
when subj and fou RASKZ, a Plan Gomis, came up to his table and intrép-
duced theaselves, Subj mentioned source's isminet trip to USSR. :
geld source to come to Sov Bub next day to meet the Cultural Attache,
who could arrange to: get source to USSH and back without coat.
dnvited subj and RASKE to his home for dinner following sunday. Both,
scsepted. SUBJ paid entire bill. . .

Ynen source went Sov Bab sext day met Yurly YORONIE end eubj, alse
SERGZYZV. V.-invited himeelf to dinner with subj at source's hoge.
Subj, YORONIN and wives went to source's for dinner, besring sany
preeente, RASXR did not come, Subj told source 8thie RASKE ic a
ovine.® Felt that it necessary to use these Fina Commies politically

bub that they cannot be trusted. . .

  

    

 
  

   

   
 

  

 
    
    
   
   
   
 
    
 

 

 

 

WESTERL ANEOOS

 
 

1 se, believed tyan Ya, a5 8 ie subj'a, chief.

@. See (SH) 1282 jCernihars2, OA 1s, which we-date the debriefing
of Arthur, Lohwater} (Debriefing changes some of the points) ,

3. ne hina GOLUB, b. 1827, arr Einland via ‘ainikkala 5 Nov 56 *to J
reside permanently". Fessibly Subj's wife??

i .
L/w NB/T [ined ted to a farewell lunch for Ivan Yefimovich SE8GSYEV
m RES who used title of Consul in Finland at times).17 Dac 55.
Also present was (fnu) GOLUB, who was intradaced as. the new Consul.
(ays note: assume this is Subj). Subj has been in Finland circa 1

8. Gey ‘presented calling cards to G5 officers. Now officially instal

  

    
  

  
   

            

  
   
     

25 Jan ST as I. Y. SENGEYEV's replacerente
Cori S356 6, Sudj & wife on Sow Bnd list of Isr 57, C
“ar a
est Dears 7, Subj & wife on Dip List Jan 57. ay
Fab 37 i wr
x 50 mer 8. Subj & wife on Dip List of July 57,
. an oe,

  

» SECRET
 

 

 

 

ati tec red 4 ud
SECRET .

     
  

aaa aoomags j mane

 
   
  

 
   
    
 

—- GOlUB, Grigeriy..Yeo —- ae
rf 22, 73 Po actas Ge "care tone ma 4 s
aan sre) a. EB. co (Crry 2210) [OFHahseog

tes 42 4 220 7 __..}. cota 7s Be
1 fea FA] 2210: -2hd'Secy & Chief, Congular Section.
: ave Ph 13. (3,2 .

Orrice apoacss

 

     

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 

 
    
     

    
 
   

  

 

    

1 ,¥iee~Congul ( 7 ~ right
j Ay REVAL erantec fa
circa Bee 35 (ari Holefakt
i PHOTO 1955=$6
une 57
Dust, Suomt
_ i. May 57
OFHA J2356[-eare oF ae 13 Aug 23: :
Ovfienvater7t oa. -3925 9 26. (91 or 32 in 1956
Tintirta
| ;Otose or. Rharker
i AMPLY :* *
2%: | vite = ta Finland; very attractive. Ponstuly Nina, b. 1927 (s00 Then B Misc)

   

  

Nina Fedorovna, born 24 Nov 1927 (0a 2356)

    
  

DOCUMENTATION

   

 

Causes” Subj"s Finnish notireably weaker than I. Y. SEROEYEV'a,

Xnowa Finnieh rather well. ;
Subj speaks no Anglishe (see ref Joi 3800 under Misa.)

PREVIOUS CARCER AnD COucaTiom
| Source said subj stated he had attended secondary school and the
Langiage Institute. -

2. Subj claims to have been a Colonel in Sov army during the war and spw
action in Leningrad and Moscow—-wig wounded six times, Hels is his

first foreign assignzent. Sépaks only Russian and Finnish.

  

 

    
   
 
 
  
  
 

   
    

  

PERONALITY (Habits, wee of money, Aobbies, literature, vices)

tren[ Tanna showed aubj photo of hia children, subj became quite
motional end et wept, Remarked that ha and hie wife have wanted -
@ have children for past 6 yre., bub-have had no success. Appeared
Pleasant to source, but after sonevhat ruthless interview with some

nn mothere vho were begging him to allow return of thelr sone fron
PSSR, appeared quite stern. Source thought eubj was heard Goemie,
though he admired tha. material accomplishments of US, Feels subj

8 very mach a Sov Commie and te not defectadle. Very pleaeent and

saa, vial with good sense of humo
Cia 3800 Potenoly sorfonial and Tikeabis & enjoys playing the part of the host,

13 Far 59 sone no. 498 SECRET hada

free ss

 
     
    
 

  
   
    
  

   
  
    

           

 
 

 

  

 

 

Fee

GOL‘B, Grigoriy Ye.
Pace 2

a Contacts r , ‘s L

(8) : . ;
: OPHA\2413 Subj had contact w/Prof David ieen€] (AMbright), a Russian speaking research
or a 57 . schoisr woose interest {fs 19th century Russia, echt) G* through Hilliker

-  @hiet, Pol, Sec.), met Jane Kichline who obtained a report for Hgrse
DUfieeat! reparted that GCLUD was very down on the Aner Snb and America, |
wanted to know about American life ti Uvs., ete, :

This.is a very long report—five paces,. For elaboration, see att to”

ae gratch retained in Finland files, | _ - Ola
1? (aru 7s60 In ree ere BINGERYA2/tald (VaR ATTON/ll the following whieh vA} ;

3 Jan 58

 

MISCELLANEOUS 3" .
. ag PZ? Subsiapta Hels for Moscow by rail 22 Sep 57.
57 a . eo
ote Subj left Fink w/family in early Sep ani ha not yet returned,
i t

Degen!

passed tol[Statio#] GOLUB had recently complained to Johannes VIROLAINEN

that the Finn security police were not paying any attn to cases of British

& american espionage in Finl, adding that the Soviets had iafe regarding -

. Western espionage in Finl and vould be glad to furnish it to the security

police. GOLUB said some of the western cases were old & some new, Did not.
: elaborate, Source did not say what VIROLAIKEN's rerly was to GOLUB,
Oh CA then said it would behoove AIS officers in Hels to be as careful as

possible cause it quite possible security police would receive orders to keep
their eyes sharply peeled for oper involving Finnish citizens. Perdleton
briefed all senior ODEARL people. QDUNIT man said he had reed a warning
few days earlier from a friendly Finnish officer that another QOUNIT officer
had been seén too frequently afrinv driving a Volkswagen w/dipl plates around
freight yards of Hel. (This was CDUNIT's energetic factory & freight car

 

4

i.

marking program.) The ODOATH man said his family had noticed Finnish policeman -

- on the beat outside his house had recently begun to go to phone booth & make
a call every time the senior May v: left his house and drove tovards tow
Everyone took warning seriously. [1 te tel] us: any further developments.

ol: fb tarts se (over)

a)

 

COINE
rn OFHA 2975 Subj arr Fink from Moscow 6 Nov 57. No mention of fanily.
pe a 3141 Subj's wife arr Fin} from Moscow § Jan 1958,
Ji Jan 58 :
rs) head Subj te. wasntion TOR on 25 June. (ste) *
25 Jun 58

Dipl List Subj & wife ondipl list.

Jan 59

Subj & wife on Dip List of July 1958,

 

yaterufuess Sub and vife on 16 Nov $9 List
rs

Subj & wife on June 1959 Dipl, List,

ORE

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
        

4
3] tee 37, ay ) tald Sttion that Subj had .
visited che Min tbe’ Interfor re_security polices * > .
having contacts ut > westerners, vA) ss told that

it had se connecticn with:him; Fin. a free country &

peome hed richt to talk with any one they pleased,

Min of int asked hie exactly what he wa s driving ate=
Subj was evasive & gave a vague non-sequitur ansver whieh
gave no hint as to what proof the Sorlets were talking

-¥ about. Min of Int tald GOLUB if Sov govt had any official
© complaints to make he should mike then thru proper channels
* When asked if he thought there were any deeper significances
to these Sov gaxbits,/VARIATION/L|rerlied that he did not :
expact the Soviets to do ‘anything. more than drop theese :
a2) «Gonversstional hints.

 

 

> fo! nz os re ;

a oO H
° yey varsn “it $8, 58 subj catlea{vaccrm\e invited him te lunch.

: eas - * bis During the lunch Suhj, for some reason,, wanted to impress {
= i

yeare Pl on[¥/A}thst he es to keep informed of cartainthings
even though[¥/D) an sn't help him. For example:

He: -knows that Oskari VAINONEN and Antti ele sre in Haaparanta. He has photos of MEEARAs

doeuments & knows that an American inteorregate>these men in Haaparanta.

An American Captain (G. did not romember nace) said, while he was drunk, that tne (iaoc a) 0 l

detective WISTERBERG is his friend and hea the job of keeping track of Sovieta in Hele, -

He knew that there was a mtg of Scandinavisn Security chiefs in in Nov & that 3 :

THULIN (Sweden) ' JENSEN (Denmark) & the Yer chief attemied, (Vfl p& Zid this was so.) €, 3

The American military has 15 persons working for- then in Hels although only 7 7

appear in the Corps Diplomatique.

Col. Bjork, the Amer MU Att, is. the man who calls the shots for Amer espionage in Pinlands:

2. At one point in the tal ¥/1 did he tock G. to task for having interests not co-sistent
w/a diplomat's job. G, proteSted that his interests were purely diplomatic and that he «
hag no other than ae consular duties.

{

sata thet

   

just (date not
seh, but since Y/
: to postpone the ate rs ba
Subs re was leaving, ~ ad Focntay

(presi: ef June. (¥. wy ¢ s to acat}
’ that is, at 1500 hrs. 1

one_h, 2 : tr

: qr he ask Sub! about the executions in Huncary :
ef:tes), bat B78 Bus that the question is a little it ;
deligate for kin to yy je 32). Although we gee 5a

Subj would be core,(* sais 2 not knew but we:
concern rel 7),

va ocenstonally eu “ped 1
te haecss Subj, but almost 7
dow as inappropriate, just

  
  
     

 

  
  
   

  
 

    

 
 
    

   
  
 
  
 
 
 
    

 

w/Sudj
rep ie.

ex: rtion V AY

      

 

F)
8
v

 
