. ~~ Weapons . and funds for a proposed assassination attempt against

 

 

° - saved Soto's ‘Life; the latter appealed the case to Raul

- in Februpay; 1961, The terms of his release from jail

 

AMTURVY.OPERATION FILE 19-6-88 es
Tike 66 “8H 6 MW de lo-
6h 72 — an

y, The AMTURVY Operation was designed. for the
purpose of conducting sabbtage operations against Cuba.
It consisted.of a net of 13 AMTURVY assets whose primary
function, | apart from sabotage, was the preparation of

- target studies. and analysis of sabotage operations. The ; 7
files contain only one reference to. assassination, that

in 1963 and the continuation of the same plan. through to

 

1965... Based on-a review of the files, it. is apparent.

that the following assassination plan could have been known to

the Cubans, including the overall purpose of the AMTURVY
Operation.
. . P.
2. ASSASSINATION PLAN - | AMTURVY-13.
AMTURVY-13 (Mario SALABARRIA) was. Closely ro

acquainted with Fidel Castro as far back as 1947 and there is son’

some indication that they both may have been involved in the

/1947.plan. to topple the Trujillo Government ‘in. the Dominican
Republic. “However, in 1948, SALABARRIA was responsible for
the arrest of Fidel Castro, this due to the latters agitation.
on behalf of one Emilio TRO. Salabarrié was liter sentenced
“to ‘30 years in prison for having murdered TRO/ He remained .
‘in? ‘prison until 1961 wlien he appealed for parole to one :

Lionel SOTO’ Pristo: (201-055332). As Salabarria had once ro
Castro. - Salabarria was subsequently released from prison — :

are unknown.

 

“3, By the summer of 1963 Salaharria was seeking:

 
4-606-10080 ! .
nn C

et SECRET

 

s” ‘

June 1977

SUBJECT: Julio SALABARRIA Aguiar (AMIURVY-4) 201-89013

1. Brother of Mario SALABARRIA Aquiar.

 
 

   

; At his. ‘first. meeting with AMTURVY - 1, in the summer of 1963, we
death, and needed money and weapons in order to carry out
"the ‘plan (ANCROAK- 1 was also a nieviber of this group). In

“Fetaia for. this assistance, ‘Salabatria offered to carry out

- iikfior Sabotage Operations for AMTURVY-1's “American contacts”

with Salabarria's. bona fides. "we": (the Agency. ). managed to

. Sdlabarria’ s hands, through AMTURVY-4. 9 At this time AMTURVY-4

in this. matter by (QUANTUM sh. Whether or not ‘the materials

_ pouch is -unknown.

 

_ Lenbese D2. retamirer)

Fidel Castro. Through his confidant, AMTURVY - oAg Salabarria
- Gpdtupo -aitgit yesus. eran an fee sse)
sought contact with ANTURVY - o7 Salabarria had. known AMTURVY-1's

 

 

, brother, “AMCONCERT- i for prenty years and assitsied that AMTURVY - 1

was in totich: with the. AGENCY chow Aée assumed this is unknown).

Saiabarria said he was. a member of a | group plotting Castro's

(how: he kneiv OF these "contacts" is unknown , unless AMTURVY - 1

 

tore him);
‘4, In October 1963; when the Agency was satisfied

geta- few pistols, revolvers, and sabotage materials into

was receiving: materials from the Agency through the pouch of

the] babassy in Havana. AMTURVY - 4 was being assisted

ep ee

{
for. Salabarrias assassination plan came through th

Sr The.following is an excerpt - from UFGA }92]4,

spree

of 28 December 1964, the debriefing of AMTURVY- 1 who was

died (92rd)
£4. 1969 7 pe

bavria))

successfully exfiltrated from. Cuba in October 1964. Gee

   
' Gasé presents cértain CI’ considerations. Salabarria had been

“yeleased “from jail following a personal apeal through Raul.

_gase with Mario Salabarria.

 

6. By early 1964, however, the Agency had hecome

Pa

dissatisfied with Salabarria and his proposed assassination ..
plan, and had notified the AMTURVY net (in particular

-AMTURVY-1, AMTURVY-4, and AMCR@AK-1) to cease working on

the assassination-idea. Salabarria's later attempt to
assass inate Fidel Castro was not approved by the Agency,
and fe was in fact informed of the Agency's opposition mf

to his plan,

7. COMMENTS
“Tf as the file shows, the Agency approved

of Salabarria's plan to assassinate Fidel Castro and provided

Salabarria with the weapons (this in October of 1963), Castro |

_COlild have been aware of the plan, especially as Salabarria's

‘Castro; and this when Fidel Gastro-was well aware of the

‘fact that Salabarria was responsible for the death of a

close friend; Emilio TRO; not to mention the fact that

Salabarria was responsible for Castro's arrest in 1948.

What deal, if any, was. made with Salaharria in return for

his release from jail is unknown. Nonetheless, Rax Fidel
Castro has a recorded history of not being one to forgive, .

especially when he has been affected personally as was the

a
-

wa .
—

<>

Sb

3 .

| Whe wes oad

0. -

 

 
