 

 

SORA aS A YEE eT Atte ga tig rg ae

 

Handvriting Assessment Report

The writer is apparently a rather clever and shrewd individual
who nay appear core correct and harmless tha actually is the cases
He is intelligent, well educated and evidently bas acquired yrofes=
sional training and experience. He has abcorbed the material he hus
read and studied and viilises it im a pucposeful maaner. is think-
ing is clear, logical and adaztable. s intzllectual and practical
talents are fairly well balanced. he learns and understanés quickly,
but he is deliberate and esutious before getting hinself into a new
or altered situation. ie is 2 cool and calculating observer who ree
lates the smallest details to their larger aspects. His synthesizing
faculties are more prono-nced than his analyzing abilities; ne is quite
skilful “in putting two and tvo together" from the things he sces and
hearce Most people in his environnent may not even be aware of his

   

   

. astuteness and vigilance, as he may intentionally convey the impression

of being preoccupicd with his own ihcughts. He discards superfluous
matters as much as pocsible, but occasioaally the vitul points in

more complex or unfaniliar problems have to be pointed out to him, as
he could miss them when left to his own devices. Fe tries to coxbine
imagination with sober-mdedness and matter-of-factness, but not al-
ways successfully. As a result, he may be, at tines, soewhat awkward
and unrealistic in his approach. ke possesses sore mental independence
than he cares to show and while pretanding to conform, siay follow some
private personal inclinations. However, he does not possess much
originality and seems to try out various forms and thought patterns
.with which he can identify himself. He is active and curious and
constantly tries to broaden his horizon. He is still in the process
of mental development and growth and he is not yet quite able to gauge
the risks and consequences when he exercises initiative. He may be
aware of this and compensate by intermittent overcautiousness. Basical-
ly rather impressionable, he makes strong efforts at concentrating
intensely on what he is doing, shutting out all sossible distractions
and diversions. His memory functions well, and he scems to have ac~
cumulated a rather diversified store of knowledge and inforzation.

 

The writer is not a born organizer, but he tries to arrange hia
affairs properly and to be as systematic and methodical as possible, in
order to avoid confusion. He is active and versatile aud can make sud-
den changes when required. Be possesses great facility in expressing
himself in word and script. He has some skill in adjusting his style
to that of the people he is talking to. While he can be rather elo-
quent, he is not likely to divulge anything which shold be kept
secret. He has some intuition and also sensitivity for selecting and

 

Saas

  

 

 

   

~ SAA RRNA, GS TTR RRR ISIN SOR EN

aah ita

 
Ara t0nt6-10441

 

 

ay

aSETh,
fa

Peet are

%

oft
er)
)
?
¥) ;
|

7 April 1965
TSD/BAB 156-65 :

SP OE ASE SSS CRIES

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/Cuba/RR/OS
ATTENTION : Grace Roberts
SUBJECT : Handwriting Analysis - AMLASH-1

Attached herewith is the handwriting assessment
report on subject as requested by your memorandum #2
dated 17 March 1965. The report was prepared by

urs.[ jot this office. Any comments or criticism

would be appreciated.

Attachments: oO oO : . Le
Report &
h.w. samples (5)

Distribution:
2. Addressee w/atts.

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

   

Toheiene sei MOPS T MEL pete weep cent nee ee eet

 

  

A BIS,
2

™~

sd “ee

“2

WAG aR

ray bas
.

judging the proper quality of material for a definite puryfosee Also,
he possesses mynucl skill which he could exploit in different waySe

| While he has learned to figure and calculate, this activity does not
seem to hold his interest. Uevertholess, ke ig conc.rned with moneye
He is rather free in spending it and may not always get alons with
the means at his dicposal. In his selected grofessional field, he
should be a good student who activates all his resources for ;roper
advancenent, even though he cay have a nuzber of additional interests.

Fa
5
"
q
a
é

 

Hnotionall;, the writer is not quite mature and he hides behind
a more sophisticated and poised bearings He hus his feelings and in-
pulses under the strictest control. Ye is a role player who may appear
more natural and sponzameous than he actually ise He is detached,
very reserved and avoids exetional involvezent whenever possible, even
though ke may pretced the op: osite. He is self-centered and rather
vain, and most concerned with nis personal advantages He is quite
proud and occasionally likcs to play the big snot. He is very self=
defensive and self-rrotective, constantly guarding hirself against real
or imaginary dangerse Apparently, he tries to steel nizcelf, in order {
to be tougher than he constitutionally is. His exotional sense of :

i

SONS HRE Nae AS ROMER SAEED Ro ETE f

 

proportion is not well balanced; he say overemphasize an insignificant
ineident, while he disrecards an important happening. As a result, he
may take unwise crances, in order to show how courageous ne is, while

at other times be is cowardly in situations which are not dangerous at
all. However, whatever mistakes he aay make in this area, he will

cover them up most skillfullye He is very secretive about his affairs
in general and dces not confide easily in anybody. There is little
consktency in his esotional attitudes, and he could surprise those in
his closer environsent by rather unexpected actions ang reactions.

The only emotional ties he has say be to his traditional backprounds
otherwise, es not » lovaitye Ee cam exercise ywarious
deceptive mecnanisas the moot adroit fashion, and while cemonstrat~
ing a stooth behavior. He can maxe his claims xno»n in indirect and
firm vayse He is still in uncertain stages of his exotional develorp~
tent and has not yet found his proper courses He is somewhat overstrain-
ed and his tenusicas abeorb a ecnsiderable portion of nis basic energies,
but he can muster sufficient strength at present to support his function-
inge

 

         
   

  

be RG OAR PTET Ge F8 SEERA SI RRIR An BPE Bie te ae TIN

  
 
 

Apparently, the writer dissipates his efforts somewhat and tries
to do sore than he can handle comfortably. In spite of his occasionally
overbearing attitude, he is still in need of guidance, and probably func-
tions best in a clearly structured environzente He tries to te seat and
orderly. When he does not divide his attention, he can be exact, con-
scientious and reliable in the execution of his taskse Lowevers under

=: pressure, he can become eareless and negligent and then camouflage most
ekillfully any shortcomings in his worke He should have some capability

coe meats tes te ttagta ©} hype AONE Tetyhtad ART MEDRP HAY CLI THe LPG

 

~ at
- 2. “ chabeire +
A :
. Vaumeea® hing? ear . a, .
eae ~pRleehpsdeased nein sep ec aE IEG ne DE ERIE RENE aA
 

         
     
      
      

as a physician; probably a srecial talent for diagnosis and possibly
S) eelicate surgery: In :Gdition, he could be suitable for certain
types of intelligence word, but he nay lack sone exotional stability

At present,
and it should be difficult to deter=ine which course he is going to

take. uch may depend on his environzental conditions and who is ine
fluencing hime

TSE/hd
4/6/65

 

 

ae

 
