13-00000

‘ * NOV G7 "97 18:32AM. : . P.3
SO. RT e . :

Additional Resonrces Requested.

3. The following estimate is based on our understanding
of the ARRA requirements at this time.

A. Review of records: equivalent of 2 man-years (3
snr -~- average daily contractor cost
270) 2

B. Preparation of documenta for National Archives:
equivalent of 1.5 man-years (2 contractors --
average daily contractor cost $180);

Cc. Indexing: approximately one-man year of overtime*
{$25 hourly rate);

D. Reproduction: approximately one-man year of
overtime ($25 hourly rate).

Estimated cost FY98: $300,000
13-00000

WOV G7 'S7 10:33AM . : P.4

_ Request for Funds fox Declasaification of Korean Documents

‘1. Background. In December 1995, the Director of.
Central Intelligence drafted a Policy Directive calling for
the implementation of a community-wide systematic
declassification program under the leadership of the Center
for the Study of Intelligence (CSI). The ty
Historical Review Advisory Committee (CHRAC), chaired by the
Director of CSI, was formed last year to implement. the DCI’s
directive and to select and prioritize topics for
historical declassification review by the Intelligence
Community. At the October meeting of the CHRAC, the agency
representatives approved the review of materials related to
the Korean War as the first topic for historical
declassification to be done collectively by the Intelligence
Community. ;

The Korean Project, Funds are requested for the
Agency to fully participate in this project. With funding,
CSI, in cooperation with the Agency’s automatic
declassification program (OIM/IRG/ADD), will review for
possible declassification intelligence records related to
the Korean War period (1 January 1950 through 27 duly 1953).
The review would be done concurrently with the rest of the
Intelligence Community. The joint effort will be
coordinated by CsI.

3. The Project's Cost. Preliminary research done by
CIA’s History staff indicates there are approximately 100
hoxes, about 150,000 pages, of material that will hava to be
reviewed from archival material belonging to several Agency
directorates. he following costs would be incurred during
such a review: ;

a
@ Document Preparation (select pertinent documents for ; Né co
copying and organize them for reviewers) - One contractor jr
for 50 days ($13,000)* -~

e Copying Expenses ~- One copier, at 75 pages per ‘hour for
(2000 hours ($50, 000)*

# Document Review (contractor document review to make
declassification determinations with guidance supplied by
staff supervisor) - One contractor doing 2 reviews of
each document at a rate of 200 pages per day ($390,000)

 

* Contractor is approximately $270 per day.
? Copiers are approximately $25 per hour.
13-00000

NOV a7 ’S7 19:31eM

31 October 1997

Request for Additional Funds for. the JFK Assassination
Records Review Project, through 31 September 1996.

3

Reference: Ltr. to Executive Director form J. Jeremy Gunn,
Executive Director, Assassination Recoxds Review Board
(ARRB), copy attached.

Background.

. 1. The ARRB will go out of business on 31 September
1998. Before that date, it has a statutory obligation to
complete ite review of all records held by the U.&.
Government which relate to thé assassination of President *
Kennedy, determina those which are relevant to the

assassination story and ensure that the same are transferred

to the National Archives. As the board begins its final
year, it has become increasingly concerned about the pace of
the review and transfer process. Referent letter is the
latest of a number of exchanges dealing with that concern.

2. CSI/HRG has carefully reviewed its current position
with respect to its ability to’ meet the deadlines imposed
and has concluded that it cannot fully do so without
additional resources, at least through 30 September 1998.
This conclusion is based in lange measure on three changed
circumstances:

A. The ARRB has recently exexciaed ita statutory

authority and designated additional CIA records to be within

the JFK collection (to date approximately twenty cubic feet
or 40,000 pages). Additional records may be identified as.
the ARRB staff continues its review of Agency files.

B. Over the past three months we have received an
increase in the number of “Assassination Records” referred
from third agencies which include both Agency. documents held
by another agency or third agency documents which must be
reviewed because they contain CIA information; and

C. The ARRB itself has established a deadline which was
not anticipated. All agencies had understood that the
review processiand ARRB action would have to be completed by
30 September, but it was widely assumed that final

‘processing and transfer of the documents to the National

Archives could occur after that date. However, the Board has
now mandated that all relevant records which are not
duplicates must be transferred to custody of the National
Archives before it goes out of business.

P.2
13-00000

Nova? 797 18:34AM a : Pa
Classification of Material Transmitted EXDIR.
. _ — DEROIK

HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP.
CENT ER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE

Phone # 703-613-1806

( PLEASE DELIVER IMMEDIATELY >..

Preverirr err l iter irri err Tt ret eri tirrate tere rire terrier ia)

 

CLASSIFIED FAX
SUBJECT: J FK | Qo
FROM: John fares'ra x 31G0
SENDING FAX NO. _703-613- 2.
: EX Di
DELIVER TO: ‘OFFICE,

RECEIVING FAxNO. 703-7347 /9/, 7

DATE TRANSMITTED: a’ 4 PAGES TRANSMITTED: 9
"(including cover sheet)

TRANSMITTED BY: Bachire

 

See eeer nner erent tre enn nett reent rere reenter nnn

elt SETI OT

_ALVO...

Classification of Material Transmitted

 
13-00000 ~~ ..
ys - SECRET

 

 

 

ce: Brian S. Latetl|
YN. Barry Harrelson
Sent on 6 Nov 97 at 11:38:33 AM

SECRET

 
 

13-00000

- SECRET

CL BY:(0693020 >

CL REASON: Section 1.6 C
DECL ON: 6 Novernber 2007
pav Fam: FIN 7-82

COMPT
11/06/97 12:09:41 PM
Re: CSI Resource Request regarding JFK

 

Some background information for you:

(S) First, although Congress authorized and appropriated $5.5 million for classification management,_it is
unlikely that.CSl will receive the full. $5.5 million. Why Congress levied a tax on DoD procurement that

 

 

will have a significant impact on CIA's program because of the fact that

 

 

“AS a result Of that tax/CIA has to take about a $49 mi million

{reduction across all programs (per SAC direction). This will impact on all activities — including new adds. ~

Each activity can expect to lose‘about 1% of its resources We will identify specifically how to take this cut
at Friday's offsite.

(C\in addition, CIA has a large FY98 unfunded bill ( p On Friday, we will determine how
to reduce and/or pay th that bil bill” One of the proposals On thé table Tor paying the that! bill is to use’ ‘some of the)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Congressional add money >- obviously, we would have to work thisdwith the the Hill but the bottom fine is that

some of the declass money may be redirected to other priorities. .

 

 

 

(C)Finally, we may decide to use some of the adds to prepay some FY99 shortfalls. _ We are al are already 2
fa faware ¢ eof a a shortfall i in FY99 of about

 

 

 

 

(U) So, the bottom line is that no one should count on. getting the full amount of their add until we have
finalized our decisions on FY98 and FY99 unfundeds.

(C) All that said, if CS! does receive some or all of the money added by Congress, they do have the
flexibility to allocate that money to other priorities. However, they should attempt to meet the spirit of the
language in the Authorization Act. Specifically, the language reads, “The Senate bill added $5.5 million to
enhance declassification efforts, with a particular emphasis on those documents relating to
Guatemala and Honduras. The House amendment added $8 million for classification management. the
conferees agree to provide $5.5 million for declassification and classification management and request
that the Director of CSI report to the Congressional intelligence Committees on progress in declassifying
documents of historical significance, the volume of documents involved, the mechanism for review, the
anticipated date of completion of this effort, and how the process can be improved."

(U) Hope this helps. CRB

 

ce:

 

 

 

SECRET

 
13-00000

Mr. David W. Carey
October 28, 1997
Page 2

accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes
reviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all
identified assassination records by September 1, 1998. (We do not perceive that
duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time-
consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive
that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our
concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to
satisfy what I hope to be our common objective.

It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congressionally mandated time
limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion
of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and
mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We
sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on
unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that sucha
step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are

required to fulfill our own responsibilities. Although it is our perception that CLA may

wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such
decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials.

We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its
review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent-that the Agency is
able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any
unfortunate — but potentially necessary -- measures to complete our own obligations to
Congress, the President, and the American people.

If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to
discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency.

     

Sincerely,

cc: Assassination Records Review Board
104:10330-10100)  -

 

 

ER 97-4602

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 28, 1997

Mr. David W. Carey
Executive Director
Central Intelligence Agency

: Washington, DC 20505

Re: Completing the Review of JFK Assassination Records
Dear Mr. Carey:

I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you
the very best of success in the difficult challenges that lie ahead.

As you probably are aware, the Assassination Records Review Board hasbeen
mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to
the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. —
During the past-three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard
to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in
significant patt to the work of John Pereira, Chief of the Historical Review Group, and
J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and

. frequently thankless task of overseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be

superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a
strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us ina
meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to
commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project.

Because the Review Board is now in the final twelve months of its statutory tenure, I
thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is
our wish to be able to state in our Final Report to the President and to Congress that
CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available
records on the Kennedy assassination. We would like the Review Board to be able to
assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this
enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any “secret” files on
the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, on a
monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with
our ability to achieve our objective. .

Although many important strides have been made to further our goals, we nevertheless
perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need to be

   
  

ra

Boaro Memaers: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff > Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelso
Executive Dinector: David G. Marwell \

 
 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

21 November 1997
CSI 97-536

Dr. T. Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director

Assassination Records CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
OF street, RELEASE AS SANITIZED ©

600 E Street, NW
. Washington, DC 20530 2000

‘Dear Dr. Gunn:

Thank you for your letter of 28 October in which you
outline the Assassination Records Review Board‘s goals for
the coming year. I appreciate the complimentary remarks you
made about the “excellent cooperation” that CIA has been
providing to the Board.

You raised a concern that the Agency may not be able to
increase sufficiently the pace of the review process to meet
the 1 September 1998 deadline for completing the transfer of
records to the National Archives. You also expressed the
view that if any records are not reviewed by the deadline,
the Board will vote to release them in full and mandate that
custody be transferred to the National Archives.

You can be assured that we are committed to taking all
necessary steps to meet our statutory obligation to review
all of the Agency’s assassination-related materials. It is
important. that a proper review of all relevant records be
done. This will allow us to recommend to the Board what
information warrants continued protection.

We appreciate the great responsibility that Congress
and the President have given to the Board to inform the
American people about the assassination. We share the
Board's goal of declassifying and releasing the relevant
xecords to the fullest extent possible.

Please convey my regards to Chairman Tunheim and the
other Board members, and assure them of our continued
cooperation.

: : Sincerely,

Devil Ca

David W. Carey

 

  
13-00000

‘ SECRET

ave - CSE Arqurtra- ao yen fio cuntason sectsine
on SFK project ov re, COL 1-82

i forwardid heme fo Comp trelles, fou.
W/conphle provide edit! backgerrl chee HES |

 

NOTE FOR:
FROM: john F. Pereira CC! Gina
OFFICE: . CSVHRG

DATE: 11/06/97 11:38:33 AM

SUBJECT: CSI Resource Request regarding JFK

in Brian Latell’s absence, i am providing the following response to the Exdir’s questions regarding the
request for additional resources for review of JFK documents:

. What is the size of the JFK declassification problem ? How much work remains to be done ?

—_

- An additional 40-50,000 pages of CIA records remain to be reviewed by 30 September
1998.

- Alarge volume of documents are being referred to CIA by other agencies for review,

including the FBI, State, and Presidential Libraries. The documents are either ClA-originated
or contain CIA information. No figures are available, but we estimate at least 40,000 pages.

- The JFK Board has also asked CIA to re-review approximately 130,000 pages of material that
we released earlier to the National Archives. The reason is to determine whether
information deleted earlier can now be released.
2. How many people do you have working on the JFK project now ?
- Following are dedicated to the JFK project:

-- One staff officer (Project leader Barry Harrelson)
-- 13 independent contractors (work 3/4 days per week)

- The DO unit detailed to CSI to coordinate the review of JFK records recently added two
contractors and may add more.

3. What difference would X more make ?
- The additional resources requested would allow us to increase the pace of the review of

CIA documents and third agency referrals. Unless the pace is increased, it is highly unlikely
that the Board’s requirement to complete the review and declassification of all JFi<-related

records by 30 September 1998 could be met.

SECRET
