14-00000

APPENDIX 16

FOREIGNEKS LIVING IN CANADA WHO
HAVE BEEN ACTIVE IN UNREST IN
THe ACADEMIC COMMUNITY

Kathleen ABERLE - Associate Professor, SFU

ABERLE, a British citizen, immigrated to Canada in June
_ 1907 from the United States to become Associate Professor in the
Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology Department (PSA) at
SFU. ABERLE has admitted being a strong supporter of Fidel CASTRO'ts
revolutionary government and of the National Liberation Front in
Hanoi. She is interested in the activities of Black Power advocates
and university radicals. .

Hardial Singh BAINS ~ graduate student, McGill University
See APPENDIX 14

Thomas Burton BOTTOMOKE - former head of PSA, SFU

 

BOTTUMORE, a British subject, who was employed at SFU
from .1965 until his departure for England in December 1967, has a
history of Communist involvement in England prior to 1950. In 1967
he was assessed as being influential in young radical circles at
SFU. As head of the PSA at SFU he was responsible for hiring and
bringing to Canada a number of radicals from the United States and
Britain. : : . .

 

-

James Thomas BROPHY - student, University of Windsor

BROPHY, an American from Elmira, N.Y., is sympathetic
towards "leftist organizations" but is not as far left as he would
like people to think. He was recently elected President of the
University's Student Administrative Council. He participated in

_certain minor demonstrations during the 1967-68 academic year,
‘attended a CUS seminar in Winnipeg in May 1968 and since his return
has been more vocal and appears to be more radical in his outlook

towards the established authority.

Thomas Harold BROSE ~ Assistant Professor, SFU

BROSE, a U.S. citizen, entered Canada in July 1965
and is currently Assistant Professor of Political Science, SFU.

 
14-00000

ae "APPENDIX 16

University, LEBUWITZ has made no attempt to hide his extremely pro-
Communist, anti-U.S.A. feelings. In December 1967 LEBOWITZ was
elected President. of the newly formed SFU Teachers! Union. A
leading left-wing radical, he is known to assist radical students.

Herbert N. LEFCOURT - Professor, University of Waterloo

LEFCOURT, an American citizen, immigrated to Canada in
July 1963. It is purported that he planned the strategy and form
of confrontation for the student occupation at the University of
waterloo in October 1968. .

s

John William Carl LEGGETT ~ Associate Professor, SFU

Currently an Associate Professor of Sociology at SFU,

LEGGETT, a U.S.A. citizen, entered Canada in September 1966.
Prior to coming to Canada, LEGGETT, then employed by the University
‘of California (Berkeley), was a leader of the Free Speech Movement
which conducted a campaign directed against the University adminis-
tration. He was subsequentiy arrested for picketing in defiance

i of court order. In 1968 LEGGETT was a member of the Vancouver

: Committee to Aid American War Objectors.

Martin James LONEY - Teaching Assistant, SFU
See APPENDIX 10.

Martin NICOLAUS - Teaching Assistant, SFU

A U.S.A. citizen, NICOLAUS is a Teaching Assistant in
the Political Science, Sociology and Anthropology Department of
SHU. In 1963, NICOLAUS was a member of the Progressive Labour
Movement (now Progressive Labour Party = pro-Chinese Communist )
in the United States. .A convinced Marxist and an advocate of
revolution as the only solution for changing the social system,
NICOLAUS has been described as one of the "extreme left radicals"
‘responsible for various demonstrations and student unrest at SFU.

' David Keith ORTON - Lecturer, SGWU
ORTON, born in England on 6 January 1934, entered Canada

on 14 November 1957 and was granted Canadian Citizenship on
8 January 1963. He was described in September 1968 as one of the ~

. /8-

 
14-00000

Perea

3
3
5
an) OMMUNITY~

1
4
4
i
:
4
i
a
i
ey
io4

 
104-10063-10285

 

aan : samen . PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

 

it)
Chicf, WOMUSE NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO. . . os ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
Chief, European Division CAN JUDGE INDEXING

 

 

“Action; See paragraph 3
Reference; ‘OCOA-14721, 30 September 1969

1. AS you will note in paragraph 7 of the Reference, we
asked (SMABOVE to give us compiled information that they have on
various MHCHAOS targets, At the time they said that these con-
tained their own internal source information and could not be
passed, They promised, however, to furnish us the same material
in a form that could be passed, The attached two;books entitled:

<The Black Power Movement in Canada" and "Unrest. in the Academic
\Community (Canada)' were recently passed to us in response to
this request,

2, From a cursory review of the material it appears that
some of it is already known to you, Some is overt information
while other items reflect results of (SMABOVE investigations/and
thorough checking. We are also attaching \SMABOVE's’ letter of
transmittal which updates some of the information, You will note

site \| that they invite our comments,

_ 8. We feel that this is somewhat of a break through with
(SMABOVE. We have not received this kind of complete report from
‘them recently. We intend very soon to offer some comments to
them and especially offer our appreciation, Your comments also
would be appreciated,

_.. &— We do not know for sure if LNERGO was also given these
ibooks,’ We assume they were not. If we determine that they were

passed to LNERGO we will let you know,
OY el
i Asgdloct ore ot

Attachment: #4 u/s/e
As Stated up ©
Distribution; : ) bd 3
- Chief, WOMUSE w/att
2-~ Chief, EUR w/o att

 

CROSS REFERENCE 10 DISPATCH SYM8O1 AND NUMBER DATE

\ OCOA=14814 4 November 1969.
CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER

“af PEBAT 200-006-387/3

 

 
14-00000

 

q

':vents where these contacts were made including the CUS and UGEQ

canual conferences, the Ninth World Youth Festival in Bulgaria
curing August 1968, the International Assembly of Revolutionary
inudents in New York during September 1968, and the Hemispheric
‘onference to End the War in Vietnam in Montreal during December
368.

As suggested earlier, protests and student demands in
she. academic community in the name of student power are not ine
digenous to Canada. There is a reinforcing relationship between
she protest movements of each specific Western country due mainly
co the international outlook of protest leaders who are prone to
ceact to similar protest movements in other countries. Although
chere are numerous contacts between student power leaders and
activists in various countries, and foreign events do have an
effect on events in Canada, there is not, at least as yet, any
substantial evidence of coordinated international control. This
is not to say that such contro] doesn't exist (it could, for
axample, be exercised from a student radical hotbed such as West
Cermany), but thus far the student protest movement appears to
have spread more by imitation and publicity than by coordinated
planning.

2. INFLUENCE OF FOREIGNERS
LIVING IN CANADA

There has always been a number of academics from foreign
countries who have come to Canada to take up positions in the

‘academic community. . Although there are exceptions, in the past most

of these people have tended to be concerned only with their

academic endeavours and have not openly participated in the :
political affairs of this country. However, during the past several
years there has been a gradual increase in the number of academics ~
students, graduate students and professors - who have come to .
Canada and become actively involved in the protest movements, in
particular, the Student Power movement. Many of these people fall
in the New Left category and have come to Canada due to difficulties
with their own governments because of their radical political
activities. .

It is quite apparent that much of the unrest‘on Canadian
campuses to date has been strongly influenced, and in certain
instances initiated, by radical students and professors from other
countries. Many of the radicals involved in the upheaval at SFU,
for example, were lecturers and teaching assistants of British and
American origin who were virtually persona non grata to.their
native countries educational institutions and who, as a result,

immigrated to Canada.

Approximately half of the faculty staff of the PSA
Department, which was the focal point from which the demands for
change in the University structure emanated prior to the formation

 

lapparently, the U.S. Government has been given what officials
consider "ironclad proof" that Communist China and Cuba have
Kalead finance nationally coordinated campus disorders,

 
14-00000

 

i: the SDU at SFU, consists of left-wing activists! in this
category. Martin LONEY, who was one of the student leaders
juring the SFU incident, entered Canada as a British citizen in
august 1966. Dr. Thomas Burton BOTTOMORE , a leading Marxist

and author on Marxism as well as a British citizen, took up ;
employment at SFU in 1965 as head of the Department of Political
Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA). BOTTOMORE, as head of
the PSA, was responsible for the hiring of Kathleen ABERLE, a
British eitizen, and of Thomas Harold BROSE, John William Carl
LEGGETT, Bathan POPKIN and Martin NICOLAUS, all U.S. citizens.

Although the largest concentration of foreign radicals
at SFU was in the PSA, other activists did take positions in
other departments.l ‘These included Sidney COONTZ, Michael Allan
LEBOWITZ, Paul Edward IVORY, and Maurice HALPERIN, all U.S.
citizens, and Laughlin Bernard CURRIE, a citisen of Colombia.

Mordecai BRIEMBERG, who took over as head of the PSA
Department after BOTTOMORE tendered his resignation in 1967, has
expressed a desire to remain as Department head in order to keep ,
his hand in on the hiring. In this regard, Gerald SPERLING is, wae
through BRIEMBERG, making efforts to get Malcolm SYLVERS, an American
Marxist university professor who apparently worked for the Communist
underground in Italy during the early 1960's, into SFU.

Professor Donald E. EPSTEIN of the Political Science
Department at the University of Waterloo, an American citizen
described as a draft dodger and an SDS member prior to his arrival
in.Canada' in 1967, as previously indicated, has been active in ;
organizing and directing students in tactics and methods by which
they could take physical possession of university buildings.
EPSTEIN, who has been active in student power activities at °
saterloo, has apparently been refused tenure at that University
and there are indications that activist students intend to challenge
the administration in this regard. |

Professor Norman STRAX,” an American who was employed
as an Assistant Professor of Physics at the University of New
3runswick, precipitated the crisis at that University. STRAX was

instrumenta] in the formation and activities of the SDS branch at
that point. ;

 

A566 APPENDIX 16 for further details on
specific foreigners living in Canada.

*See APPENDIX 16.

3The SDS at UNB is also known as the Canadian Struggle
for a Democratic Society (CSDS).

e. /127

 
