 

 

cars

4
A A }
! I - ; ae
1 - r
re Serr Li
: Sse sava@Stutasas Me-ber of a group called Cantains of 26 dct
: OH wes intouch with HitS4S through his. fathers
| § 6, artureAcrisnar PL ant Mis contact with the MMM Sanchez waateg

S 7. Comandante?

8. os sme: Sarcla

|

|

fo

ae |

(Akg) evganizaticn -

Contact man between the C1/TS and the Jetional
Association of ix-Officers eioatriomk in which
and JM's father is active,

tnele of PL & JK who according to cH saved.

tke life of Cray CIEUTIDXS, JN state? that

Camay was sentexced to dezth due to his participation
is a University student plot against IATTSTA

 

   

iis a

 

 

 

Bees
 

Fe tere cee ae a NR eta nemA  Hetcnee res areeie te

 

INSTALLATIONS

' Los Cazes, Criexte

Dos Pies, Rie Cento
Criexted rrcv

BPrts FCRIS =

  
 
  

44r strip from which operations against Nicaragua were
sup,crted and will te in the future, Meld kas been
prepared for nizt* ccaraticns, is lighted aad has

radio control facilities, . ~ i
: i

Large 2acio Intaliation, ecuizment purchased from
Switzerland. Completed HE in Farch 59
Conztrcction superrised o7 Avgustine CAP, former
Treas 26 Jul who rowdiaenchamced with FC, See 23.
This intallation tatiles all tra*fic Zor eaxcediticnary
‘undertakings. :

REVCLCOTICZARY PLANNING GROUP

1. Physically lecated ina house in the Biltmore Section cf Eavana.

2. Works wider direct supervsion of 2aul CiSTZ0. who gatECEIXOHE does
‘ nothing xore than pass orders to the group “rom Fidel CiS720-

3. Members of this grocp mentioneds . i

a. It, Afren PICHI=% (5)
be Capt fm Camry
ce, Capt fru Napoleon = (50)
d, Paul EUGHS :

 

(L9)

 

  

 

ech hintladhss maone ty Lod

 

 

 

 

4
@
74-0000 +

 

 

 

CTETR TIDTRUALS WETTICN=D:
h7. Alberto BAYO Cosgaya

h8, Carilo CIEiFra00S

(ye
\S Qe Capt fou XAPOLZON

{o> vas oe sas 2 PIT
- , eo é os e: at
Co Pa

A oY
a FaS Sopi YASTt
{She Mag Ricardo LORIE ,/

Ne

 

(h9) cart tu Cam‘ (26)

rs)
t ee

Captain Fak, piloty suspected by JM and others

of being a queer. :
Alberto 3:70 Giraud ;

Father _y training guerrillas at

Parera’ Beach in navana, Jif suzcested that if we

want details oa what is geing on at Tarara Beach

that Roy Webster, owner of the beach, be contacted,

eM feels that while he is not = corzunist he is
influenced ty bi. brotkar (13) sho is. .

In charge of arms and armo fer operations egainst
Nicaragua, Pro PL. danted to resign when PL
left PAR, but cid note | a

Described as working in same special group ‘of
Nicarauain operations, (See 5)

" Alse working with Hic ops group, JM seid that

contrary to press reports he (HUSES) wes never
arrested, :

3

26 Jul officer whom JM feels will scpport FL
dn any future undertaing and whom JH intends
te contact thra (1)

i
® = i) . 8 a
. 7 8 bd © and hag
good contacts with cattlemen and sugar owners.
: t

  

 

 

7

—
 

 

 

 

 

Sve Ist Lt. Arturo LINCE

ONY 26 [ca carn Tait)
38. Marja’ jn fait

Sh, taxcia VELIZ

 

se je es Masai ee oe

  

‘
'

j
Ao 4

 

r

aL3s Llamuze. “ Chief of jase at San antonio, “ay (Batiste Field)

- Henber CF since 1935, Director of Politica: Indoctrination
School. 2 i ‘

On 15 May sent to PAR. tig to be political cultural officer

for Fak. Zery close to Raul Oxi fh. PL objected and had
erguecen® sith FC . JH thinis ke is now in Texas doing doze
buainess vith 3ell Helicorer Co. ;

Lives rizht across the street from convent vzere JM nid out

See (1) for address. Fathers told GK she old commie,: and that

re day Ul2U274 ousted RAUL CALTRO met there with others for
Arse : . .

 

uife of Kajor Delio G1:B2 OCH0i, Russian bors, and Secretary to
PO. MARA Wireske® DZYDNEZYNSER: 008 -yher 2b .

Chief agninisirative Asst to Raul Ci TRO»

Ao. Lt. Victor PINs Cardoza Ln Officer between 742 and RatLts office.

- AL Carles Rafel SOxZits,

42, Carlos FRANUI

43, Osmay CTESF EGOS :

44, Kajor Felic TORRES
As. Suan 55 Calls (Keges)

45, Capt fm SEMIDT

B Gowiste Cobsfeayet

 

 

Revolucion - ; :

- Director Revolucion ae iw

Brether s? Coxile, Diracter of Political/Cultural Indvcieinm:tion

for all armed Forces.

Military Commander Yaguaji, las Villas.

2d in Command, Santiagce de Cuba. Slese friend of Beults witce
Director CUBANA ARO PO. 74le 3 or 4 days’ before PL resigned

told hin he thought communism good thing for Cuba, Flys to
Miand elcost every cey smuggling arms, : ;

 

it ic tape mate

 

a

TTS ETE RIE 2 SUN CETL TINS, RETEST RE. Petes Kee ot

a
 

oe ne ew ee ere een eee natenceecemerim ante ing rma marie tema rae ain wit tat

Se Lt afren PICE220(25)

 

Gere

Te citizen. acsigned by CH to vork vith specfal
group waich i s

ua and rector
on details. Tais grou oe OR

ate house in tre Ziltcore Section of Havana. On 25 or

25 dune he re orted that cus and sec-le are ready

for invasion at.a farm in zinar del Zine J.M. jean contact
thru (3). :

     

  

“(Do Alfredo F72224 (26) Chief of Intelligence Faby resigned after PL fled

but resignation mot accezted by FC becaue he mew toa
work in biz, tne rrice Ministers

z but still retains res-onsisilicy
ee2) JN feels that. he and PL
TrOrte

muche 7.C, asked hin +
O2fice, waich he is ¢
for Fak Intelligences
ean count on nin for

 
 
 
 

Z soda

fi. hajor Jose Herio CRUZ{22) iide or adiutant (3d in command) to Chief, FaR. Fled to

Mjand after PL resigned,

PrUcy) Cept Rafael EET (26) Payzaster of Fike Resigned wren PL recigneds In touch

t
#

wie
ah il.

 

Captain Hubert MASTET Excellent pilot fled to Kiara 7 “>

Lt Kenuel £2520

Cept Gaston 2.uil+

a Capt fm MIGEEL

Cart Carrera AcLaS

 

Capt Renaldo TLANco

Gapt Nestor aL7sREZ*

Lt. Manuel C-Rx0*

(#) Came to Jx’s nouse the evening FL resigned (1 Jul) asd suggedted they
all “take to the hills" together and-Sigat #.C. (12-16-1773

: sf Fs. yaj antonio TORRECILLA “Fired by alsEI D4, dest piplet-navizator/in fake
afl rg, cart Blos 3.0354 (26) _ Fired by aliEidte Piglet Fake Frobudly in Rave

Ras) cart Garcia TUR25) sore ® . ‘

wita KEXOTA and OA. Kew in jiavana. -

Best pigi6t in Pak, 15 yrs exzerience in sP fled to
Mient shortly after Fi resigned and sent JK word when
he arrived HUH Miani. Bired by cuan WEDS

    

 

 

* Pursuit * 8 so = ®

2 . Jet a ® i] a . 8 @
oo : i.

Chie? Supply Fak iS 8 . * . ha

wes pibl@t who. flex x0 back fro= Bogata in 1948. :
‘Resigned when PL le>. rR and now in hiding in Havana
i .
Piolet, Fake Fired by aUEIDA . i-

Frocently hiding in cavanae 4

 

Shae ene
 

ERTL TID EE CLR Re Anan i SMe P/N NI Mm ARR ER  EN

    

 

Spates ange eer wane

SPRAY NAT RPETEL OT SO OTS Ce ULES

 

 

ee Sen nn ee

 

Yorked wits FL in santiszo ce Cuba. J25 the ome who saw the
Ruscian sutcarine in that area during revol. sscame asst to
anzpector veneras (JK) 722 and resizned when FL lest F.

   

 

Replaced Jd es imypector General wocer aL Sli.

 
 

ves Treasurer for 26 during
Havanae Sut since he conpetent eagr ass
constructing large radio installaticn at Dos Zize, Rio Cauto,
Oriente Prov, «ich handle: all como for fevol, expeditions.
Plant vas coxpleted in xarch 59 ani be not siven any ven of
reponsisility with 22, Noy sup-erts FL and was in touch with
JK who intends to contacts :

 
 
 

    

    

42h, Dr. Juan Rodriquez FIN7D0 Hat organized a group of srofessiona) ren who are anti=
PC, coiled Rec cion Deocratica, Jo, was. working
with this greuz in 4 E

  
 

 

ana ani can get in touch with

thrulaxeO OLE ERE TILL Iie Lee 25,
ess Jorge TiLLiLTs. Member 26 cul, aze 34. Tel 36783 Took JH to the Convent where he

of nid until evace an enzr stu. Hes suzar interest. active duri
ang
wp Fevole eni;ing amo/punt. « vores with O'Farreks (1) ae
“phe : .
269 Hajor Willian Baty Yan "Yes man" for FO. Seized imericanm prorerties in Isle of Fines

{Te antonio Fano €or: IsS Férner Public Inform:tion Officer for FAR. Firez by che Guevarra
1 Kar 59 because he erote article in Fuk publicition which asked
why tho Indoctrination icheol at Cabame Fortress was necessary
He was with FO during nis student cays at Habana Ue and Imoxs
some cf the shady check Suziness he was in et ice tines Now

working for Carteles Kazazinee JK Plans to conzict.

28. BARVIN » JK: working ‘thru his (348. IN’ 2) wife prepared a detailed plan

. ‘for the capture of the Isle of Pines and release of Sarquine and
Kajor 3arbonet, but xhen JH ond d Ph presented piss to Fey he turned 4,
it down: because Barquin: ther a ‘

: 4
t 29 arsantMeamnnez of Slicial in Education Hinistrye Friend of mM «ho alarmed at comie
. : 7 influence theres . .

   

fs Also-friead of (2) aha Me le.

* * 80, Father fille VERDE ‘FUN In touch with 3.ak4)
we are with PL®

 

aie armiundo Sree Yent to Mia few aay? befora PL resigned and ssids *
TUITE?

ANON JEN ho youl Sta PL alll
32) Hajor eu (ta) Beth 9) te see Fac. TaudaP$G,0r"FinCowancy berweew Birdy Saad menee”

(35° Yoomandante Huber Mal0@ Has 2500 mont under his command in. Caracucy Frov e vont with
: . Father CaLLE to La Plata’ wien FC was to sign Land Reform Law

in an esTort to cut pressure oa him to iis oT measure.

5Aq Father Calls © : See 330 Located at Central aielaiaa. “53 would Buprort Phe
: ect :
Lu. :

 

 

 

See, dew thes mewn noe

 

 

B

Sramnraniba abe

 
 

 

 

 

 

    

a ,

AB. Eu Sta OF Fak : ot ba .
- 1. Juan ALVE:DA, a yes can to FC who can't fly and mows nothing about ae A
wv aircraft or air forces, haz fired 19 officers from FAR since taking overs. among ‘ : ‘
ther were the bert piolets,

. enna SEEN Gagpeieene scene oe

ot

 

 

2. there ere presently 15 or 14 pigi6+s in rARsdnd only 6 or 7 are any goods

Se Status of aircrafte . XN

“ : Jets: Total 5. 4 wiil fly. . :
/ rurrys: Total 20. 6 will fly.
i r= Total te
/- v-l7 total 2

CHiS Total 2. ine in bad char

chem otal 2. (me deine re aired.
3el] Heliocnt sotal 7  Gne burned receatly ‘ :

Be 26 sotal yZorgot to ask ch, but he did say tney had no srares for thess

 

—_

4 4, smo : :
~ 1.5 nillion rds .50 cal i : i
15 to 25 500 lo bombs. ! ; i
\ "some rockets. H Coe 1 : f
\ Se nave taken all 50 ca? :G fron F-7's and pat on trizeds for ground“and air

‘ deferze in arg ps waere they exrect attacks

t.

 

Ns All mechanics are forzer Batista rersonnel. Most replacezent and rezairs

done ay canpbiliz

  

Yo FC is trying to get jots from Jenz. 20 hess on this.

& FaR employs 11 Chilean instructors at , 3150/20 soe in the tresence or aK,
FO asked thex if they were ready to fisnt for Guba, and since th rey vere hired -
for inmstructore they didn’t know wnat to say ;

SPE Me TED PRINS LOR Rh 2089 wy ere ensemsitnn wm mre oo ee veces

. Fe trainings dM established a prep-cctool for persons who wanted to take the
exans for flignt traininc. Located saracoa, Zavanke Is oar ad
had 350 students 190 of wzich were illiterate. 7.c.to
that there «as no need to take oxacs, that-ne dicn't new any
*fancy~boys~ but ybanted piolets lixe the vapanese KiKIZLD
thet would go where they were tolde .

     

fou SE IDL who sends pane every 3 or h days to Miami to
smuggle in arms. mM believes SEIDY is come (See 46) .

 

 

CUBANA Air Idnes:. FC fired a1] experienced plolets. Sow at
operating at $100,000 per month lese.

 

 

‘ML, 26 Jul Forces Distritution: Havana: 3000 of which 1200 FAR personnel, 1
. ‘ Cabana cortress: J.Gc,. antaza 300, Santa Claras 300. Camaguey 12500, :
(v7 Santiago de Cuba: 3-SC00, Pinar cel Rie: 700.
POLISS: 3000 Havana
2000 Alsexhere,

   

 

 

f

j

;

1

i

j

j

7

t

| |
10, Other Airs CURA‘A azz0 POSTAL. Fas h Colkéts, Under direction of Cape : |
{

{
Tr
 

 

>

 

A0G7AOIST]

 

 

Co wet res 31 duly 1959
MEMORANDOM FOR THE RECGRD

. SUBJECT: Debriefing of Jose Marcos DIAZ y Tans
28-29 July 1959, Tampa, Florida

A
4
i
i

'1. Mr. Ben C. Evans and Mr. Joe L. Then arrived in Tampa at 1415 26 July
1959 and vere nat by Mr. Bernard Riechardt. We imediately went to the Hills-
borough Hotel where we registered as Ben C. Elliot and Jon L. Taldy respece
tively, listing Departzent of State ag place of exploymert.

2, Subject was in Room 215 with Kr. (vee wor woh ottise ef Security.
We introduced ourselves to Subject as Bon joim Taldy.

3. Subject was using the naze Mariano JDOERZ y Gomes, which appeared
en his 1&Ks identification slip. .

k, Subject was debriefed, alzcet exclusively in English for five hours
on 28 July and again for approximately the sane amount of time on the 29th,

: 5. Subject was cooperative, responded to all questions, and appeared to
be under ne stress. Bs did inquire about bis family in Cuba and the shere-
abouts of his brother Pedro Iais, bat evinced no grave concern, :

6. Subject 's views, as related in the attached, are probably colered

by his respect for Pedro Laie and a desire to demonstrate hie brother's impor-
tence, stators, and role in ths future of Guba. :

7. Mo security problens were encountered.

oO

Ben C. Bvangs

Attechnent:
Debriefing report

 

oi . . . OR = Pe 086 bog DIAZ y ts.
L : ~ oy f-~)iJes€ Marcas -
wets - (4c) * Ficlel CABTRED

_,

 
 

 

 

i
1
{
1
t
'
{ |
} t
|
i sane as Deputy Commander or 2d in command of FaRe ]
"Revolutionary activity: Spent entire period working in 26 underround in a
oo. Havana, Principal tack was to arrange for sBipment ” sot '
i
\
|
f

cia J Ae the aie aan ene tate

       

Fersonal tata

D.L3 1928 °
Education: uit hdrians,
: Flignt Ins irk

1947
in 1633. Did not pre: [UAtes
ont: irivate inttruction at Janta Fe Mrjort

in 140

 

 

 

Fazily + . a)
. ; i
Fane age Location i Rel . :
Sergio 39 wb Brother
. eel
Guillerzo 25 Havana Brother . .
(arrested when FL fled Cuba, but released and. nowstvdying erch&tecture.) a \
Reinaldo 23 .) Ravana Brother :
Jorge 22 : 5 “8
(Former pilot in 26, arrc-ted and ‘Feleased) i i
Eduardo 2. "
i
Pedro Luis ! ,
. ! 4
Yolanda, 32 2 sister 4
(Warried to Captain Ricardo 2a'02,ZB.S, ZEXE 17? (CaF, stationed in :
RY State vith :aC. Ricardo has been ordered to alaska for 3-6 mos, so i .
Yolendo is in Eavana to have ner 4th child.) : '
7 : ~ Pa
Esther . 15 . Havana . Sister ca
Esther Lanz Garcia * 30 : Havana Nother

(How taking shock ‘treatments for nerv brkdwn foll PL departures) i
.Fedro Luis Diaz Rivero x . Havana . Father

"Vicente LiZ Garcia. sO , Uncle

Neem) G

Position Inspector General, Pik. JN described this | rosition as being the

of ares to Santiango. In this regard he workéd closely .

Lat : with Augustine CiF0d See NOTE. Also worked with vajor. -
. . . ‘fra DIAGO in Havana undo grounde :

pico € }

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

cmt oe

 

 

 

    

looks :

ho, to O'F.RREB to be his -
ech PL, himself and anti-
elezents in Cubs. JH intends to have hin coze to
Kienl periocically for whic rurrese. Ze is forsi-
sr: is in touch with 2
gent elerents in FaRe JM has
keen hin ce 1956, He is sbowt 3C and was described as
being a dam fool for being so outszozen in antieI0
feelings, tends te contact him <arouzh the Catholic
convent Fa Dorinicoz, San Juan ce Letren, loceted in
the Vedado Section, Zevana on i9th £2 between Jaz

  
  

o Cg Father feu O' PARREL.

     

 

  
    

. #2» Rafeel SCTELLO Located in Mioni es Principal smmgmsi@tees for overations

 

covering F. £ plans ané@ scvivities,
to Cart s2?redo SUERAA xnuxtkumxkexrex 2.
Has been in Hiari for 4 nes, OE say ail thete rerort: z
the tine he left office. JM intends to contact him in Zavana and
See recen® reports and get cozies of all rerorts Yor his uses

orts go-directly
and then to F.C,

reverts us until

 

   
 

 

 

 

coek eels 2OTELLO will coorerdie. according to Zotello's rezorts
“PEDRA

has 66,2000 men, 8 F-51's, 2 3426 and a total of 30
planeSe 2-700 nea in Cubase sccordine to ditetkix, PEDBLASZ

 

A will

attack Cuba within x days by land and sea, with landings .on north
Coast. cK thinks LCYA-perzitted FER.A4Z4 elenents to land wearons

in 2¢ ifort Escambray with idea that F.C. end PEDRAZZA con fight

it out tren 2d Front can move in and capitslize on & weakened F.C.
end seize control of situation, F.C knows all the details of these —

Preparations in Canta Domingo and therefore will attack, On the
other hand TRUJILLO will encourage FIDRul: to attack Cuba.

(5, Juan Fernandez CaS TRO (25) Presently working in FAR Inspector Generals Offices
ee ‘Loyal to FL i Wt. Eas a Ui resident's. visa vorks with the
"Canadian". JK intends to contact thru Fatser O' Farrel, :

i i.
let Lt fn Canadian aF, F.C. met kim on trip to Canada where he
aske2 Af Ze could come to Cuba and work with 266 Arrived in May
59- Born in Cuba of Canadian parents’. Asviened to J's office
when he excressed knowledge of just how Russians work based on

his exrerience in ‘Cccupation duties in Gervany. assigned by
eX to -vark in the office of Cniaf Political Police
& report on extent of com:ie penetration also told to cultivate

. Maria (ceo Jt Q secrotary of Fet, j :

4, "The Canadian"

 

\
i

   

 

 
