 

 

 

“by Senate hay p proposes, in brief, ‘that.
aout of $2,343,000 for a: .

 

1. The HEP plan
the 150 be provided vith funda Ls

   
    

   

3. It ts noteverthy that the plan inaiste that the HRP retain
completa ani sale ‘contral- of all the “operations coutewpleted. These,
it states, on poue 5, that: .: .

: “Contributions wilt be received without compréntsing: the-
rospenaibtiiey for decisions end organization of the plans. This does
not rule out our eearsh for sameelling ari cooniication vith ‘othar

ing tha responsibility amd
absolute ¢ ecntral : of al of the operat a

“Cinder lintug added)
. Tt alee appeare te te we Mi? view. that. its positica stould
be enslogous to that of a goverment-in-exUe which baa bee recognised, ese ee
ao the rightful regina of ite country. ‘hus the plai states. that: :

Vesee swith the ‘(governnanta willing to g@uppart us we should
establish high-level contact. vhich vill mre it possible to discuss
quest icna of basic polley of events and plans opportunely, on_a mutual
footing.”. (Underlining added)

hk. The operations coatamplated by the iN? are not too dissintiar
fran .those proposed by the Wi/l/PN Section for FY 1042. They include
the operuticu of maritime assets capable of reaching all Cuban coasts,
the operation of aerial supply craft (fras two basea), tho training ani
infiltration of aA operators end intelligence agents, support of internal
guerrillas, end the Sratning of eight or ten 15d-mn groups for introduction
into Cuba at the right time. (there is aino considerable stress given to
the mounting of extensive peychological warfare). he NEP plan vould pose
reuzy Of tha’ problems that any Fi progrum docs -- the whes, vhera, hor, act
boy euch questions involved ia procuring anl operating alr and meritige
bases smi the paltey questions relating ta actions voich include sabotage:
and active resistance. .
 

104-10296-10219

 

*

. nT, .
PRP

:
. 28 ry 196t
SIRIRT + Comets on MRP Plan for AatiCastro Operations

Castro operations. The original was
Axtenio Ray y Rivero, if Miao

 
  

fealing that the “take” in the vay of intormtion and the mintenswe
of @ resistance Organisstion in Cuba. vould be, worth the price.

 

Robert 3. Mowe
Chier, wi/’/Pic

Metri bution:
Original & 1 - Adtresees

“Ey
 

wr

 

 

|S. ft .ts our view that the 12? len abould not be supported ta ite.
frasont form for these reasons: - - eA 7 :

    

A. The 1?.goeks exclusive contro! of the anti-Csstro

ihe plan Steeifetalse that the vest hope for the Cuban: paople™ T

by the eet af tdesa und ais of the dehocratié left’.

‘truth or falsity of ths: atatemm:, the IT? ts. ta no position to clata

effective lestership af-tho'anti-Cistro reststonce. There have been, and
are many grouse in that Melé. The MIC Ins no record of ection of vileb’
ve have ralictie evidence: which would argue far Siving them preferential
status. In epecific instances their elain to certain capebliities haye
been tested end fount vanting. Zt ls ag view that reliance upon groupe
48 such, vith no control, is. detrimental to operntional achievemeat.

  
 

teanctal suport |
ers ur us wo are eware trere ;
j Sovermoont polteies and recuintioar wider vould
vernlt the hanting over of the aunstamial swe eavisaged by the IG? plan
without retention by the dansr af the ssue meagre of cantral over the ‘use

of the finds. The MAP plan, ¢.g., almost certainiy vould involve operations
somted fron besss vithin U.S. territorlal surisdictton, yet those operntions
would rastin under PP ‘abeolute coutrot”, He doutt that the 7.0.%., Cusiass |
ani Imiigration Service, Coust cuant and other emcomed agenctas woud ever
agree to any euch arrmigewest where U. 3. territary ig concerned, and-we. -
vould certainly be in no positias to vouch Tor the IR? operations. Antl-
Csetro operations momtsd fra: axytere o:taids of Quba are uGing Lo be
Gttributed to the United States. Stree thet ty the case, the U. 6. Govern-
Ment eet comtrol thase operations as eifectivaly ab it cum.

  
  

G- The HP seeks te operate on an equal footing with the providers
of fumis. Walla governoents, ara re

extemting guch trestaent to a private organization. Te de go in thls case
wad result in the arousing of the bitter @milty of the anti-Hay resistance

 

‘ @roups, of which there are may, vithout any curresponding benefit.

a. | The tase free EY operutions vould not justify the cost
auvieaved. 235? tame , to date, watcher in intelligence or 1a resistance
activity, bas been neglizitle. There are aay Reve etarias vileh refer to
tha MXP ag the lunsagt ani Lest organiieel ef the reolstence rags. The P

plan claims organiaation dati tothe township level ant states that:

“Tne HRP has an extensive corsumfcation act ant Ls capetent in
Obtaining indispensible cleents af Ainieli tgenes.

information fron the 'f? af sy isecriant resistance activity coniuctal
by thea. te entire histery of Agency opernctions involving sroups suggest
the inndvieaptitty of hanling over suistoatial sues “in the hope of a Mture

Chis say ta so, Sit #6 aie nut eware of any extensive valid

erties

a.

 
 

“taza”. Auide from certain tested ilalsoa arrongesents., our “tare” fa taken
by agents serving under our direction, regasdiesa of thé groups to vhich they
40 or 4 not belong. .

§. It ghould ve pointed out that fra: 4 politica? s*andpoint the MRP
orgaization and plas heve elevente vorthy of consideratian. The most .
important ts that the !=? program is ane that As attractive to the Cuban
wnases becwue, of all the exile procrana, that of the ITP fa the nearcet —
to the originally stated but dacravel platform of the Castre revolution.

Yor the game reason the. ikP ts accoytable to many licerui Latin Amertean
goverzcwnts which do not consider supporting other exile groupe, The MEP -
otters the people of Guta a positive progran of social “and ecenanie reforn.
(hetier such u progres vould be compatible with U. S. interests ‘8, of
sourse, a matter cf controversy.) rGever, in tha political aphere the
LRP program appears to break away strongly frat the 1040 eaast tution.

In other worts it may ba "“Tidelisno gin Fidel”. ‘here are other Cudan
exile groups who propone social amt-econonic referzs sinliar co the MiP.
in whien they attexnt to base these yeforzn on sara legal continuity of
Goverment; that is, a return to the 1949 eomstitutian as a vasis for a
democratic goverment tn Cube. :

  
  

7. I short, ve belleve that the iTP plan is unreallatic end unworthy
Of further consideration La ita presen: form. Tesvelowrnts within taternal
resistance in Cuba todteate that the M@? La becarcing part of a unffled
resistance ani the }F? personnal inside Cuta have dented Manolo Fay og an
external leader. Gur review of the 1 PP position inside Cura does not
indleste that the 'T? has the resairces for ag extensive a alen as presented
nor can the internal 1]P hope to direct eich a plan in eonhmetion with
Other resistance sleasnta. Cven Af auc: « plan vere Toeasivia, wa do not:
gee any porstiility of securing & reasonable return 2or the tremendoug
amamt of soney required for thia plen unless aac real concrol is agreed
to by ali and unde a Part of the plan. faking into accomt che conse) idation
of resistance elements presently taking place im Cubs, it is the Agency's -
eqnesption that we can best accorplig:. acticn operations against the Castro
ragine by dealing directly with this unified eroup or ite representatives
th other yrouye. Naterie: ant financial support would te furnished these
gramps es they reves! they pave the asasta to neeazplish specific operations
and Agency-trained axéots und commmication equipzent would ba totrathuced
to the verigas groups in en effort to Lave sce eotral
&ll effor-s umdertarm. It is presently pleamed that th
these grams, would recetve asatstaace ant @brection tn
specified above. tovever, 1b fs felt tt the proeaut s
the resistance clorenta vithin Cula mabe une ©

 

 

 
  
 
  
  

   
    
