Soba:

tho ALABAU Laewyera’ group in proclaiming Julio CARCE RAN (one

of the chief justices ta exile) as "President of Cubs at Var." He one
pressed hie indignation of this unilateral "political" move by ALADAY
and his adherents among the exiled lawyers and judges. He added hig
best wiahes to ms and reminded mo that he would probably go to New
York on Cetober 11th or 12th for the SIP (Sociedad Interamericana de
Prensa) meeting. 1! replied that 1 would Sppreciate if he would contact
Clark after his arrival to give his location in Now York City, and that
Clark might have a request from me for an appointment with him, if
this seamed desizable, I suggested that tn future phone conversations
I would he known as JUANITO, He agreed with ploagure that this would

| be a geod procedure, {I wiahad him Gedspeed and he replied kawise

to me,
16. Comment

During these first two meetings I endeaored to establish
myself favorably wits Dr, MIRO and thereore refrained for bringing
up details of budget or opposition to any of hie specific proposals.

I Metencd, asked various queetions, and ho talked at length,

In futare mestings, after I havo gAined further background and
have more policy guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him apeeific
jesues and endeavor te reach agreements or Compromises, as may be

- sequired,

ees
Ej
¢

 

 
 

. MIRO said, “The businesa phone is also in my house.
except in my house, but that phone io always busy (JE iforson 23-4680),

{

yoda

nounced PRIO's activitica againat the Council and ite efforts to unify
the anti-Castro elements. He said that the People should be given an
opportunity to elect their chiof of state after Castro's overthrow and
reestablishment of ordor in tho island,

13. Offices of Counci) {Consejo Revoluctona rio)

When questioned about his business and private telephoncs,
T have ao office

Se use the other phone (JEffersen 4-2751) when you wish to call me,"

"I need to have a amall office somewhere away from my home
because all the activities thers are driving my wile crany, I want te
{ind something modest so that no accusation can be made of ostentation «
merely & room for myacif, one for my secretary, and one for meetings,
of the Council, etc. The FRD had a place but at that place also was the
prasa, the rofugee center, ote. R would net be eatiofactery, The FRD
is sow practically dead. B wae the forerunner of tho Consejo as the

ualfying agency of the anti-Castro resistance, "

14, MIRO's Views on Coordinating the Activities of Cthor Exile
G.

Foups

After Dr, MIRO reiterated his view that he should be the
channel for funde and coordinating the activities of groups outside the
Consejo such as the Students, FORD (Labor), ote. » taald that I under.
Stood that some of these eloments were unwilling to function under the
Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he consider that an :
Activity Committee might be organised with a delegato from each of
these groups and under the chairmanship of a member of the Consejo,
Thie would serve te coordinate their activities, give them a tie-ia with
the Congejo, yet not make them subservient to it, Dr. MIRO replied
that this would morely set up cncthsr Consejo outside of and parallel to
the exiating Consejo. I did ast pursue this further, not having enough
background of these organisations to be able to discuse tho matter,

effectively.

15. Telephone Convorsation with MIRO on 7 Cctoher

Before my doparture from Miami for Washington on 7? Cetober,
I telephoned to De. MIRO from the airpert. He appreciated the call arid
asked if I had seen in the morning paper the action taken yesterday by

wake us
74-0000

Supreme Court, but that now he considered « LABAU unfit to hold any
judictal position,

&. Members of the Revolutionary Council

Dr. MIRO remarked that he had a meeting of the Council en
10 Cetober. I asked what elements now Composed it and what he pre+
posed to add, Ho named the following as presently in the Consajo:

Rescate

30 de Noviembre
MRR

Accion Democratica
20 do Mayo

AAA Independienta
MDG

Montecriots

He said he had invited to Jon:

MRP
Unidad Revolucionaria

and awaited their reply,

He would also ike to have the Workers, Students, and the
Professionals (Doctors, Lawyers, etc.) come into the Council. He deo
Heves Batistiancs and Cormunistas and elements unwilling to cooperate
should be excluded, but that all other groups should be brought together

under the Council,

He contends that all anti-Castro activities, except clandestine

and military, ‘should be coordinated by members of the Council, but that
the excepted activities should be known only to him (MIRO),

9. Probable Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cuba

Der. MIRO declarod that he believed imminent the Argentine
rupture of relations with Cuba, He sald the Argentine Ambassador to
Cuba (Julio AMCE DO) «za ordored to retura to Havana fhe had been
vacationing in the U. S. after FRONDIZI's visit); that VILLANUEVA, @
Secretary of the Argentino Embassy in Cuba was coming to see MIRO
today; and further that he (MEAC) had received @ phone call last night
enue |

{rom a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Airas, urging MIRO
to goto Buenos Aires to arouse antl-Castro sentiment of the people,
inaamuch a9 some Argontine action against. Cuba appoared imminent.
(FERNANDE Z said he had already written MIRU a letter.) MIRO says,
"Of course, I cannot go. Thave the Consojo meeting on the 10th,
Furthermore, Lam going to New York oa October Lith or 12th for the
SIP (Socieded Interamericana de Prensa) meeting and have been allotted
12 minutes to address the meeting.” - . eee

10, MIRO to attend Homage to LACE RDA (Brazilian who

Precipitated GUADKUS' resignation) on Uctober 13

Dr, MIRO said he planned tu remain in New York City (after
il and 12 Cetober SIP macting) until October 15th to attend the homage

‘for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabara province in Brasil, MIRO

probably will stay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark

' of hia location,

IT commented that I would probably remain in Waehtagton next
week in view of his plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet
with him; if 60, I would get in touch with him and artange & meeting

time and place through Clark.

11. Propaganda Commission

Tasked Dr. MIRO about bio ideas on the future organization
and structure of the Propaganda Commission. He etated that it ie eut-
side the Conseje and not under his diract control, although the Couneil
accountant has been passing funds to it, Ho sald CATR RILLO had resigned
as heed of Propaganda and that he would ike CONTE AGUERCO to handle
it. He claimed thet MESTRE had not dons anything with propaganda,

12, MIRO‘'s Views Relative to Supreme Court Juatice or PRIO

being Kecognized as Head of a Provisional Goverument
Being Kecounized ag Head of s Provio! aa ee ne

lasked Dr, MIRO-ff he believed that there were many anti-
Castro Cubans (both ia and out of Cuba) who favored PRIO, oF the head
of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government wera
to be established on Cuban soll, Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution
fe a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former
rogime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility, He de-
74-00000

(2) Commando action as outlined In plan presented
to me on 6 Cetober, :

3. Commando Plan

: . Then Dr, 4180 handed mo a plan (in Engliob) for clandestine.
' action prepared by his military collaborators, whom he named ag
Colonel Manuel VAKELA Caotro, an officer of the Acadomy, Captain
Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colone! {{nu) MONTBS.ACUDG, He stated.
that they were of tha BARQUIN Soup and had boon prisoners,

With reapect to the plana for clandestine Operations in Cuba,

he otated that 360 ren Could be counted apon for commando action, part
of them hore, part in Cuba, Sie reiterated that 8 Commande operation
wae oscantial to bolster morale among the anti-Cactro elamonts in Cubs
aad in oxile ag woll aa to conduct sabotage that would further weaken
Cubsa economy aud the Comnuniat Fegime, He gaid that for this oper tion
u. 3, be'p would be Becessary in providing weapons, sramo, dernotitions,
equipment, and funds, Ha proposed that {f this plan wae Considered te

‘ have merit, that I arrange to have someone moet with his military mea
to work out the detafis. Afar all preparations had peen made and
matorie! provided, ete. the operation would be purely a Caban affair,
(NOTE: Plan turned over to Thoinpson at cur op eting at 15:30 on
6 October for tranamisatona, }

4. Request for Aris, etc. to send te Escambray

Dy. MIRO remarked that over & month ago he had made a request
to Clark for arme for the anti-Castro tnsurgents in the Eecambray, but
to date had heard Nothin: relative to the request. He commented wryly,
“Tagk but never hear an answer." He said that the fightore there should
be supported. Dr. MIRO stated that he had a beat (provided by us) and
& means for delivery of the arms, Oavaldo RAMIREZ Is chief of the

Lacambray group. :
COMMENT: Hag anything boen done about this request?

5. Information on Arms Received by Castro Rasime
en nennnnnmans see CASE Regime

Dr. MIRC nonded me a tony repart which he said was brouyht
to him by the Argentine Armbassador to Cuba whon the latter caine to the
U. 3. at the time of Hreeident FRONDIZ I's visit.* He said the Ambassador
would not divulge the seurce of the inforimatioa but cormmented, “You will

know, "'
*Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.
 

$04-10232-10004)

 

10 Cetobor 196)

MEMORANDUM FOK THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with Dr, D:1RO Cardona on 6 Cetober |

1, De, LAG arrived about 3:50 a. m, for the meeting we had
sot at 19:56; again ne waa driven by his secrotary whem he introduced,
Aa during the first meeting, she remained outeide in the car, Cur

meeting lasted untii 12:06 noon,

2. Firet, Dr, MIRO handed me a note in tongland listing the

topics dleeussed with ms on 3 Vetobor, These pointa are

a, Groups conductiag propa zanda, ote. with Agency support

should receive thatz Support aad be coordinated through the Councsl,

b. A propaganda campaign should be waged by tho Council

o Cuba, via a long wave radio station tn Key Yeot.
{2) Cubans. in Miami and other U. S, areas by:

fa) Subsidiaing Diario de las Americas.

(eo) Contracting for time on radio etations,

(3) Latio America, with a plan such as the Operacion
Grieta,”

ce. Vaderground Activities.

(1) Provision of monthly funds to Council for procuriag
Cuban poace to send 'to the seven-odd Fosiatance

g7oapa in Cuba through rellable chanas as
previously seat through the
14-00000

Or. LiIRO aid there waa po way to detarmine the accuracy
ef tho figures given of planes, guns, otc. received {rom the Soviet bloe
(ead aly and Cansda) but even if the figures were exaggeratad 00 per
font, they would still be tmpresaive.

: - He added that Castro ta daily becoming stronger militarily
with weapone and with a large militia of close to 300, 060 being trained
te uss them while the ecomomy continuse to deteriorate. Ferhaps oaly
half the militia would be effective, But that is sizeable, Thus, he said,
the longer the delay jn positive miliary action to overthrow Castro, the
greater will be the tash. ‘We must act goox, vigorously and effectively,
to insure vietory. Anothor defeat would be disastrous and would make
Cubans, Latin Arnericane and others believe Castro to be invincible,
Then would come accommodationa and ever werss, the {raplanting of
Castro-bached regtriea in the honusphere. And the U. S. would cuffer
woret of all, being discredited for defeat and “guilt of interforence, *

“In tho UN no nation would stand beside the U. 3S.

6, Froposal that Council go to Cuba with Commando Group and

Establish a Government on Cuban Soil

Dr. MING then declared that he was ¢oavinced that Castre
weuld never be overthrown by all the propaganda, tho sabotace, commaads
valde, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating
economy, and that it waa inconceivable to establish a governmentdm exile
for nothing would ¢- me of it; that the only solution for defeating the
Castro regime wap for the Revelutidnary Couacil to 8° to Cuba and estab-
lish a yovernmert on Cuban woll, ask recognition by all friendly countries
and military assistance of its primipal ally, the U. 4., and that the U.S,
be ready to intervene immediately with its Forces, ‘This would all have
t take place in a matter of 42 hours, otherwise it would fail, I recognise
that thie ts 6 bold plan, but boldnosg ip necessary, There will be many
rigks, many may be killed, As for myoelf, Idon't care if I die, Ihave
leat all my peraona! possegeiuna and my gon is a prisoner,” He reiterated
that all muat be well prapared in advance, there must be no vacillatioa,
Svorytiing must proceed rapidly, First, a comaisado raid in force to
asise a piece of Cuban territory, preferably near Cuantanamo, and imme.
diately the members of the Council yo ashore, proclain a provisional
government, broadcast by radio to all nations an appeal for feCagnition -
{and cadles prepared in advance would aleo bo bent out}, request U, 5,
Seaistance, aad the U. S. should fursish auch assistance at onco in ado

qaate strangth to cnaure victory.

 
74-00000

Beforo such an action ta undertaken, the enemy must be
softened by propaganda, sabotage, raids, underground action, and the
mass of the peuple ef Cuba must be prepared to accept the Provisional
government through propaganda, increased knowledge of tha Council

and ite unifying efforts,

. Dr, MIRO agked me what I thought of this project; did 1 think
that Castro could be overthrown in any other way. I adroitted that
Strong military action appoared necessary, I stated further that
af courno his plan would have te be studied at the highsst government
levals, He pYoposod that ho mizht elaborate a plan with his mil tay y
Collaborators, and [ Suggested that ho do this so that it might be examined

and considered,

daggor in the side of the States could only ba eradicated by such action,

Sabotage, etc. and that enemy stateo will denounce it for intervention
in Cuba, but that Uf the U. £. gnee to the ald of a friendly revolutionary
fogime established in the country and helon it defeat the Sovtet-backed
Communist regime, all friendly governmonts will applaud, :

“E have no personal political ambitions, ' doctared SHAG,
“I merely am tryinc to chair the Council, whose missicn ie to unify the
sali-Castro clemeats inside and outside of Cuba. Hf the team ion't con-
sidered effective, then change the pitcher. But I believe the Council must
establiah ftself on Cuban ull, and son, Time 43 against as." "The . unta
del Este agreement will bachfire avainst the U. 8. if Caetro is allowed
to remain in Cuba. Ina year, after the politicos of the countries ra-
colving U. 8. aid have gotten their hands on U. 8. gold, they will nay,
‘Thanke to Cactra, we got this.’ And they will Spend it as in the past
with ao benefite to the social and economic welfare of the peeple,

7. Wiews about the Judzes aad Lawyers
Sane aad Lawyers

I queried Dy, MIRC as to ais views relative to the judges and
lawyers and their futare Status. He said he hoped that they eculd all
Feunite and that they could Se sivon assistance as in the past. He dee
clared that Dr, ALABAU wag Rot qualified to be a justice and that he. was

dotnag asthing but meking politics and tryiag to discredit the Council
and MIRC and VARGNA, Dr, AIRC doclared that he, as Prime Minister

in the early days of the Castro government, had eamed ’ LABAU te the

Phe

 
