 

 

SECRET

3. RAY told me that he felt it possible to speak in a
Completely frank manner with me. I urged him to do so,
stressing that only in such an atmosphere was there any hope
of our eventually arriving at some
I attempted to assure RAY that our motives were never sinister,
that every action we have ever taken was based on a need to use
those instruments which Promised most in our effort to free
Cuba. He replied that he believed that this might be an honest

hee had meny friends in our Agency as wel] as in the U.S,
Government, but that naturally there were people who believed
him to be too far to the left. I also stressed that our
assistance to anyone could not be a one-way street, and I
reminded him that I made the same point to hin in our first
meeting almost a year ago. I pointed out that we naturally
work best with those who cooperate, If told him of our need
for intelligence, not with any desire to xnow all the secrets
of his organization and its political Plans, but with the end
of gaining that knowledge which could help in more quickly
restoring freedom and democracy to Cuba, Toward the end of

I askec RAY if he would be willing
to give us the intelligence product of his activities inside
Cuba if we were, in turn, to give him certain material support.

His reply was an emphatic yes,

4. The Present Plans of the JURE: I asked RAY what he
was doing of a pos ve nature Tnside Cuba today. He told me
that the major effort of the JURE at this time was the caching
of resistance materials and Supplies inside Cuba, I commented

ri]
da

    
    

is a “mess!; #¢ will become facreasingly
ating Larger and larger: segments of the
 

104-10179-10135

 

> Seper ™

19 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

1, I did not have the opportunity to discuss many Cuban
problems with Manolo RAY during the period 4-13 June in both
Sun Juan and Paris, Our meetings were largety devoted to the
effort of contacting and attempting to recruit or cause the
defection of Carlos FRANQUI, The following, however, are the
conclusions of my brief effort to discuss the general situation

with RAY,

2. Manolo RAY's Attitude Towards KUBARK: It has become
ebvious to me on this second meeting with Manolo RAY that:

a. RAY is conyinced that the Agency had in the past
purposely and actively attempted to destroy him as a
political leader, In this connection, RAY feels that the
Agency, following the Bay of Pigs invasion, was partially
responsible for the break up of the MRP clandestine net-
work and resistance potential in and out of Cuba, RAY
stated that he has proof of the participation of at least
one KUBARK officer in a plot with certain MRP officials. to
remove him from the MRP as a condition for KUBARK's
assistance to that organization, RAY added that the
officer in question has been fired. He either did not
know or could not recall the individual's name or pre-

ferred not to mention it,

 

 
 
 
 
 

and by the MRP
Batistianes. in
warnings, 2
giving rh

    
 

    

 

 

as," for.
not answered,
,

bata oe

te ape
74-0000

Tee e era sindren nenate :
LA LLG cm tr entrain Hee tt

err
Rawat?

~3-

ec. fhe JURE represents a group of men of unquestioned
integrity, intelligence, organizational ability, or general
competence to run a free Cuba in the tradition of the

revolution.

d, The JURE has a sense of timing, the patience that
must go with this, and an appreciation of the need to
create a truly Cuba "mistique"™ in a movement to fight for
the liberation of Cuba. (In this connection, it is
important to note that RAY did not, and would not, expose
himself to an effort against FRANQUI without some assurance
of success. He stated openly that it would ill-—become
him to associate himself with failure.)

- @. The JURE, when they have the logistical support in
Place and ready for use, will have the personnel ready.
This was clearly implied but not actually stated. RAY
stated that no purpose would be served, except to expose
those who will assist them, by engaging in clandestine
activities that do not have the necessary material and

logistical support.

5. While we covered various aspects of the above ground
from different angles and I reiterated again the fact that
cooperation is a two-way street which RAY acknowledged in
seemingly sincere tones; he was completely forthright in stating
that whereas they needed assistance and would gladly take it,
they have always been refused it and in essence the time has
passed to ask, for without it or not, their role and goal are
clear and in one manner or another they will succeed.

6, Recommendation for Future Relations with RAY (JURE):

 

in the. struggle for Cuban

  

a. RAY cannot be overlooké
freedom; of all the Cubans I havé- met, te is the most
purneseful, methodical, as w ag: the most experienced
clandestine oparator. I think--he does know a sure way of
‘overthrowing Fidel, but it will be “a Yong, bard struggle

. Without aid. “

  
 

 

 
 

 

SECRET

one year. In, return for our assistance, RAY is to provide
‘KUBARK with.all manner of intell- gence derived from JURE
operations inside Cuba.

d. The'assistance to RAY and coatact with him should
produce enough informatioa to judge his true effectivenss
and make possible his neutralization when and if this
should become necessary.

7. Conciusions:

a. Because the cables sent in to Has both from San
Juan and Paris are an accurate, if condensed, version of |
sy relations with RAY in his operational efforts against”
-Carlos FRANQUI, Enrique CABRERA Infante and Gustavo ARCOS,
&@ separate memorandum for the record will not be prepared
unless so desired by the Chief, SAS.

b. RAY has known we as Alfredo Fernandez, but
because of operational limitarions, (false identity
documents, reservations in true name) it became necessary
for him to call me in my true name. He was not, however,
told that this. latter name was in fact true. In all our
personal meetings he continued to call me "Fernandez."

. . oO

 

recognized and remembered having met
Growery-P) in Cuba years ago.

~Rifonso Rodriguez

pein on ot et eens tg

 
