 

Dear be, Yengleyi 1

 

‘pr ages
A * le ASD

Honorable J, alter Yaagisy
Avoletant Attorney Gencral.,
Deyartioont of Justice
Bashiagton 25, LD. ©.

Rafarence ie made to your lettor, dated 7 May 1962, pertain-
fing to puaaible violation of the nsutrality statutes by ate. Luts RABEL
Nunes ta his reportod ectivity to reesull one Willtan'A. Peaniagton
of New Grleens, Loulelana, for military service acalnat the  yronent

segims tn Cuba.

bg. Luis RADE!. Nunes to an duthorised representative of

the Cuban Revolutionary Council ia New Orleans, Leulsians. . At
the preaent timo Mr, RABEL Nunes is engayed to tahing-a consus
of Cuban exiles in the New Urleaas area who are available to join
the U. &. Ageny. This census ‘pativity §s‘boing conducted at tha
direction of the Cuban Revolutionary Councii, ii tiie ecansctish,
U. S. Geverament representatives have had diseuesiona with
Dr. Joso MIKO Cardona, head of the Cubans Kevolwtionary Connell,
whereia approval was yivea for Dy. MIERO to encourage Cuban eailed

to join the U. 3, Army.

Thle Ayenty has ao record of one William A, Ponningten of
Hew Crieans, Loulatana, Algo this Azency has no keowledge oF
intevest in bir. RABEL. Nunes’ activity of recrultiag one
William A. Pennington for military service Bgainet the present

vegime in Caba.

   

 
 

 

 

    
 

Faecutve

 

¥8 dune 1964

_ MEBORANDUH PUR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligoace

 

 

ATTENTION Br,
SUBJECT i Letter from Assistant Attorney Genorai

 

 

Attached ty a suggested repiy Yor a letter from the

Raaorabie J. falter Yeagioy, Aagsistest itteruey Gonoral,

 

dated ¥ Hay 1062,

 

 

iSlened}

TILLIAH K, HARVEY
Chief
. Yaes Fores ¥

 

Attachesata:

1, Suggested Ropiy . .
8. Basic iwtter (Beg, No. aos) -

DOP/TFY/CI/RMTansing:dad (26 June 1952

Disbribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
=» AAB
- Executive Registry
= TFY/Reoc,
- TFY/CL
- TFY,/Pa-Frop.
- Chrono

Fee nt ee pt bm

 

 

 
 

 

 

. resentatives. . bee ee

 

the activities, and indeed the fluctuating’ composition of °
tho Cuban Revolutionary Council, are, “3 you are anaro, couplex

areas on which it io difficult to generalize. If you desire, we can

arrango a detailed discussion on this subject between mutual rep-

aan

Faithfully " yours,

   

(Signed) Marshak Se Carton

 

Marshall 8, Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

 

 
