74-0000

Sy

3. One of the things that concerns Mullin is that in
perusing the material, they. have noted that several of the records
are missing. They want to be sure that if Maheu states that these
particular records were purged from the files because they pertain
to sensitive Government cperations, this is actually the case and
not a subterfuge to withhold pertinent information which could be
used in the forthcoming law suit involving Hughes and Maheu.

4. I told Mullin that we may have on certain occasions
used Maheu in the past possibly for cover purposes. I further
told him that I was reasonably sure there was no connection with
him at the present time.

5. He asked whom he should contact within the Agency
should any questions arige during the course of their investigation.
I told him that I should be the point of contact. He reiterated that
he wanted to do all he could to preclude any embarrassment or
compromise of Agency operations and would be in touch with me -
for any guidance in this regard.

6. On 15 March!1971 Mullin called me from Las Vegas and

stated that in inves of Maheu's operations, he ran across
the name o: © purportedly recently represented
Maheu's in! 7 Ecuador) In checking inte the background

of this individual, he noted that he had previously been associated
with an import-export firm in Miami prior te coming with Maheu.

He was calling to determine whether we had any interest in this
individual, and if so, how should he handle this facet of his inveati-
gation. I advised him that the name meant nothing to me, but I
would check and call him back. He informed me that he was planning
to leave for Quits, in the next day or two, but in the meantime, could
be contacted at the Frontier Hotel, phone code 702, 735-9182.

7. Our records show that| te issued a Covert
Security Approval on 19 December 1967 for utilization

q

 

 

on
 

0g 4021-10362

ae

‘Bae

 

Tf GAR 71

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff -
ATTENTION : Mr. Martin J. Lukoskie

SUBJECT : Robert A. MAHEU

o3 I. On 3 March 1971 I received a telephone call from

rank Monan) an Agency employee assigned to the Retirement
Affairs Division, Office of Personnel. He asked if I knew an
Ed Mullin, who was a former Agency employee. I replied in
the affirmative. He stated that Mullin bad just called him and
was interested in talking with me regarding his present position.
He stated that Mullin is presently employed by an organization
known as Intertel. I immediately recognized this outfit to be the
group recently employed by Howard Hughes to take over the
operation formerly performed by Maheu Associates.

2. In my subsequent conversation with Mullins, he advised
that he recently retired from Government and has taken employment
with Intertel. He described this organization as one that looks into
operations of large corporations to ascertain whether any of their
assets are being directed toward activities controlled by organised
crime. He cited the National Football League as one of their clients.
They also have been engaged by Howard Hughes to look into his Las
Vegas operation which was formerly managed by Maheu. Mullin
who served in the DDP while in the Agency seemed to recall that .
Maheu had some connection with us, but admitted he knew very
little about the association. He stated that he had spent several
weeks in Las Vegas going over the records pertinent to the transfer
of the administration of the Hughes interests to his organization, and
he would like guidance from us as to what he should do should they
develop Agency connections with the Maheu organization.

 
14-00000

 

aL

 

of
under Project(LPGLOBE

The file further indicates tha pent a letter of
regignation to Maheu's Las Vegas office effective 31 December

 

 

 

 

 

 

1970.

8. A check of Mullin's security file shows that he resigned
from CIA on 31 July 1961 to go with the Department of Justice.
Ae of 11 February 1969 an approval of Maison wae issued to Mullin
who was then identified as Chief, Intelligence and Organized Crime
Division, Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drups, Department
of Justice. His security file ie entirely clear.

9. While I have never had a close association with Mullin,
I have known him for approximately twenty-three years; first as
a fellow Special Agent in the FBI and later during his tenure with
the Agency. Nothing has ever come to my attention to question
his integrity and concern to do what would be in the best interest
of hia country. I am inclined to believe that his offer to assist us

in any way to preclude the surfacing of our utilization of Meheu is
sincere. |

10. In discussing this matter with the Director of Security,

it wae his feeling that w: ise Mullin that the Agency had an
interest in some o: activities tq but they have
been terminated; a urthér, there is no Agency connection with

 

the Maheu organization at the
questions arise concernin

. However, should any further
e should ask him to contact

ue for further discuesion. 3

ll, I have promised to call Mullin in the very near future
and would appreciate early comments on the handling of thie matter.

i“ James P. O'Connell
Deputy Director of Security (PTOS)

 
