104-10179-10156

A AGONY RA AOR ERA ENC ERE vee em meee

 

E.

_¥F.

    
  

 

 

July 5 was spent discussing ways and means of
contacting RAY.

On 6 July having finally agreed upon a source,
this being a prominent Puerto Rican business-

> (SKEWER-1, it was learned that RAY was de-
parting that day for Miami. Efforts to reach
RAY prior to his departure failed.

As RAY was expected to return on 8 July to San
Juan, RODRIGUEZ remained there in. order to make
contact then. At.2200 hours on 8 July, RODRIGUEZ
personally calied{s R-1 in Ponce, Puerto Rico,
to determine if RAY had returned.°¢(S71 had not
yet heard from his contact, one (fn; MELENDEZ,
if RAY had in fact returned. -.

On 9 July [shi stated that RAY had not returned.
On this same date RODRIGUEZ called Chief of
Station, JMWAVE, who informed. him that RAY was
still in Miami and would probably remain there
two or three more days. This time RODRIGUEZ
decided to proceed immediately to Miami, it was
learned that RAY had in fact returned to San
Juan in the evening of 8 July.

After talking with Mr. ZOGBY on 9 July, RODRIGUEZ
intended to return to San Juan in order to make
contact; however, due to the strike of Eastern
Airlines and the heavy loads being carried by

, PAA, there was no space available for the week-

end and possibly not until after 16: July. A cable
it ew ts ‘aealy wecthcatee Ye pane wrectabte macht WT buy.
Because it was felt that an advantage would
accrue to us if RAY were met in the continental,

- @. S. rather than in Puerto Rico, RODRIGUEZ

called COS, San Juan to see if RAY were. willing

- to meet with him in the USA. Finally arrange-

ments were made as are described in Para 1 above.

 
104-10179-10156

po. fete

Pe Ey ees

hye

ane,

ad ree, ater

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) RE URNTO CIA
NW 53295 6/15/17. Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

~ ~1/-39AUT8

12 July 1962.

 

onticT— i

“MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief » Taek Force W

SUBJECT : Manolo RAY Rivero

1. On 2 July 1962 A. RODRIGUEZ, Task Force Officer,
proceeded to San Juan, Puerto Rico,. via JMWAVE with the
intent of making contact with the Subject. While contact
was never made with Manolo 2AY, arrangements have been
made with the San Juan Station to have RAY proceed to ©
Baltimore, Maryland, soonest in order to meet with RODRIGUEZ.
RAY indicated to the San Juan Chief of Station that he was
willing to attend such a meeting and that he would indicate
the date to the Chief of Station on 10 July. San Juan will
cable RAY's itinerary and it is expected that RODRIGUEZ
will meet him at the Baltimore International Airport.

 

- 26 Due to the following series of evente,s “ge was om-
possibile, to make contact with RAY during thie, trip.

A. While at WAVE, WAVE sources reported on 3 July
that RAY was expected to arrive in Miami on

6 July.

B. In order to confirm RAY's intent.to travel to
Miami, a priority cable was sent San Juan at
the close of business on 3 July asking for

‘details of RAY's plans. While the written
cable furnished the Office of Communications
at WAVE indicated the address
this was inadvertently changed. to San Jose and.
as a result there was no answer from San Juan
prior to RODRIGUEZ’ departure to San Juan on .

4 July.

c. Upon arrival in San Juan, the Station had made
no contact with RAY. and did not know his where-
' abouts. :

it

     
     

oy,

   

wid 2 7
104-10179-10156

3. From information available in San Juan and partic-
ularly available to WAVE, it can be said with some certainty
that RAY is surely the personal instrument of Governor MUNOZ
Marin to head a future Cuban government. WAVE sources covered
RAY's trip to Miami in great detail and it appears that the

following is RAY's plan. ;
RAY will create an unnamed organization of key

Cuban exiles which once Informed, will with the initial
backing of Governor MUNOZ seek support of President Romulo

~ BETANCOURT and Ex-President Jose FIGUERES. With this back-

ing, it will then be possible to bring considerable pressure
on the U. S. Government to buy this package. RAY has indi-
cated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata
with the Agency, he has important political connections in
Washington and is thus kept informed of much of the Agency's
activities. RAY's new organization is not to be military

‘or engage in military thrusts against Cuba because military

activity is presently controlled by the Agency and cannot
be wrested from it at this time. RAY's new organization
will cooperate with the Consejo and attempt to meve in on

-it with the ultimate aim of taking over and dominating it.

ce Flu tre “4

ALFONSO RODRIGUEZ

yO, TFW/Special Assistant

 

 
