 

FR

’ Lawrence F. BARKER, me

  

wre ie
* LEST aig

=3-

Communication fe primarily with LIONION-1; with LIONION-2 only in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or. signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls
fron LIONION-1.g0 through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the
LIONION-1 safé apartment. This apartment, which would appear to be a LIONION-1

_ love nest, fs in’ anothor area ‘of tow. The Station KURIO? technician,

- Bugh T. FRANCOTTE, meet ith LIONION-1 at least once a week, ‘The Case Officer,
with him less frequently. Whereas LIGUION-1 knows
Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

 

   

 

the true name of the Ca:

Security Evaluation. If either. of the LIONION asénts are uncovered by Mexican
authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have’ been briefed
to indicate, that they are working. for an exile orranization based in the JMIAVE
area on & voluntary, non-pald, patrbotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income, This would probably ‘hdld up unless tiiey were caught in flaprante
with the KURIOT automatic pulse camera on the prenises. This camera ‘a is of such
refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization.
In any event, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his om protection,
enabled him to weathey the tax investigation and cen be used by him to overcome any
future difficulties with Mexican authorities.

Under Mexican law, the principal (photographic) activity of the project is
not fllegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not of
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually possible to stave off
investigation or house search for a period of time sufficient to remove compromis-
ing matertal from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completely
in one evening and could again be cleaned, Probably in legs time, if circumstances |

should warrant.
The target installation is aware taat photo curvelllance ‘te e probability,

On one occasion AMKNOB-1, a JMWAVE asset, was shown a nearby building (not the
LIONICN vase) by a PBRUMEN Eisbasay officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo

base.

LIONION-1 is known hy sight to some PERUMEN Enbacsy otal? persuiuael whe have
observed him in the neighborhood, Presumably they belleve he is a Mexican. ‘To
avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the
PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURIO? in separnte -
correspondence to prepare new Passports for both LICHION agerits so that they may

travel outside Mexico.

Security measures employed in this operation are designed to make it virtually
impossible for any opposition service to link LICNION personnel with the Station,

Coordination. Coordination with other PBPRIME elements or the Mexican government

is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged.

  

 
 

     

 

 

ane Be sictritute.

RO sucen teks

   

 

  

 

LIGNICH Bass

    

2 Fron Blo to
mnsiution af a

to the LICNICH
Shostnea hess
roormtirent
project yes

  

 

  

Nemec ae
 

 

 

7 _ PROJECT ‘OUTLINE

vaato cass orrrosn AQuncueee E [oeK

Lawrence F. -BARKER

STATION Mexico City CHIEF OF sara Nile arel (arts

Willard C. CUNTIS

CRYPLONYM LIONTON,

 

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval. ‘

  

. i wg b- /22f1

FTE PS :
for arr are JIA AAA. QLMe, RSAL OF PP bao Pa sy) 0

 
 

104-10186-10446

 

a

TiaNSCATION ___PRORESSING ACTION
DIS § PATC Hl ; iaaaxeD 108 INDEXING

 

 

 

 

. “citer wit Division : . - YOK | ho iDexinG REQUIRED
nro : ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
. - CAN JUOGE INDEXING
FROM ;

Chief of Staton “Mexteo: Cit
SuRsECT

    

Proj t ‘Ltonton : fi
Peto er 224 29908

Referenco HMMW-13207, LY December 1964

le Attached by split transmission is an out Line. ‘tor: Project LIONION
covering tho services cf the two agents’ heretofore iniown, as LIFEUD-22
- (201-286243) and LIFQUD-23 (201-505604). This project was anticipated in
Paragraph 4, pace 9 of the LIRANCH project outline transmitted by Refer ence.

2. To avoid re-typing at Headquarters the Station has taken the liberty
of provisionally assigning cryptonyms LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 to these agents.
Please advise if this is correct.

2
+ Atucrinee Fi 1 ptatin f .
Willard C. CURTIS pe

Attachment :
Project Outline, left side h/w -.
Project Outline, right side use

Distribution:
3 - C/WED w/att

     

weaewlicele mey 56-6 -/22/7

 

   
 

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMGEER DATE

HMMA-25110

‘OSS REFERENCE TO

  

6 Jaruary 19€5
WHOS FILE NUMBER

_450-6-122/1

 

 
 

 

   

A.

Be

c.

 

PROJECE LIONION

Identification. This is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance
operation against the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City. . . .

Objectives.” The operation is designed to (1) furnish ‘photographie coverage

‘during daylight hours of the entrances of the target installation, (2)

dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the
target, and (3) keep in readiness a listening post for the monitoring and

* recording of eventual technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PERUMEN Bnbassy compound (including
Consulate) in Mexico City.” The above-listed objectives are accomplished by

“two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street fron

- the target.

’

The project is in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1, of the
current Related Migsion Directive for Mexico.

Background » This project, herewith presented for approval for the first tine,
does not.represent a new operation. LIONION activity has been going on since

" 1962 and costs have heretofore been charged to PBRUMEN FI funds. The

operation produces photographs of persons associated with the PBRUMEN Enbassy,
both staff and visitors. These photographs are normally reviewed for identi-

fications by the PBRUMEN section at the Station, then show separately te
LITAMIL~9 and LITAMIL-7 who are
They are subsequently forwarded to the section of wWH/SA where they are shown

- to PBRUMEN intelligence defectors AMNIP-l and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whon

they are routinely shown, LITAMIL-9 has to date made the largest number of
identifications. The photos have proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of a new linbassy staff member his photograph is in the hands of the

Station, In addition to the identification of staff and Visitors, the photos j
(accompanied by a log kept by the LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action
(arrivals and departures) and details of personal associations (who associates
with whom) which are of great value to the Station in mounting operations against

the target.

In addition to photography, LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 are often called upen
to do visual surveillance of the target installation and LICIION-l is essentisl
to the dispatching of the LIcMBHACE surveillance team against individuals
associated with the target. Because of the presence of police patrol cars in
the vicinity, the Station's mobile surveillance assets cannot come close to the
target, hence the need for LIONION-1's dispatching services. ‘

The presence of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 also insures continued occupancy of

a valued piece of real estate which will be used as a listening post when the
Station succeeds in installing additional technical surveillance devices in the
target in the form of concealed radio transaitters.

 

Satin d fate as va

 

 
 

 

 

DD

- dg done by radio using pre-arranged inno

 

 

Operational Assets’ (Personnel).

LIONION-1 {5 a young PBRUMEN lawyer == exile. - He left PBRUMEN in 1960,
-planning to continue on via Mexico to the Trited States where he resided in
his cerly years. His two brothers are Amsrican citizens, one a desk officer
in the Department of Comnerce in Washingt:c. the other a police offictal in
Tampa, Florida.” While in Mexico LIGNION-1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to
1.operational suppert servizss for the Station and, once having
@ taste of clandestine activity,, decided t>-remain in Mexico. LIONION-2, his
mother, was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2. as a basehouse occupant and
operator in the LIFEAT/LISRODS technical operation aimed at the PBRUMEN
Embassy. At this. same time LIONION-1 also ghased into LIFEAT/LIERODS work and
the two worked together as a team. In 12352 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked
together in processing the take of the LITSiT/LIZAODE/MKTRAP tnstallation, now
known as LIOMEN. At this tine their eryotccyas wer2 changed from LILILY-1 and
-@ to LIFLUD-22 and 23, respectively. In the latter part of 1962 the two agents
began the present photographic surveillanss operation.

 

 

LIONION-1 was granted ean OA on 16 Mer 2362 by HMMGI-10664, He was
LCFLUTTERED on 8 October 1963, HMMW-1L206%,

LIONION-2 was granted en OA on 16 Mey 1362 by HMMW-I0660,

LIONION-1 is the mainstay ef the operssion. LIONION-2 acts as his assistant
and fill-in at such times as ke is absent Irom the observation post. Bota serve
principally as observers and photosraphe LIONION-1 also acts as a dispetcher
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance tean from 2h he is compartmented. Dispatching
23 code terminoloyy; the tezm does not
know LIONION-1 or nis precise location. IDUINION-1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Guhasiy wate through final printing, cropping
end mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate 1s processed through the
negative development stage.

 

  

Control is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of

J reficoes ther s-« vulnerable to pressure which aight
be brought upon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out
of line. Motivation is a combination of ficancial necessity and violent aversion
to, and determination to bring about the mfall of, the AMfHUG regime. An wos
additional motivating factor is that both agents actually enjoy what for many would
be monotonous work. Psychologically, ther are ideally suited to this sort of work.

 

 

Both agents realize that they ere workics for PBPRIME intellisence; LIONION-1
appears to be aware that he is working for OFGARK, The cover utilized by LIONION-2
is that of dependent mother. LIONION-] nesses as a would-be writer who can afford
to dabble without notable publishing succes: tecause of family landholdings in
Tampa, Florida (inherited fron his decease: Sather), which enable hin to Live as
a "rentista,"” one who lives on income from scurces other than gainful exployment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican government. In October 1964
this cover successfully withstanl intensive investigation by Mexican euthorities
checking on persons of questionable status tax collection purposes. The
Station plans to bolster the writing cover witha supporting documents fron a
literary agent in New York City; these will se requested in separate correspondence,

 

   
  

 

  

 

 
