104-10172-10141

: |, Berve to divide the country: into two. parts and prevent the troops

  
 
  

$
dl

 

= «A

CONTINUATION. OF
DISPATCH =". -

   
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
     

  

* 34 Subiect's: ‘search fo Fadio op alt
candidates by ‘the end of the period.’ Two are herinnin
one was unsuitable and the other ig,currently closing ‘out *h
ebefore entering tnaining. Guillermo? MAscard,| an AMDENIM ¥ rado
- previously trained and. efor use with the-Tirst UR exfiltree.
who would reinfiltrat Mcalled inte sérvica to join AMSTASH. Le.
This resulted.in Eaeatorg Finally backine out, in his words 5 “for.
“want of PBPRIME policy and plans re PSRUNEN, tut in the C/0's ©
opinion for want of courane, which besiet was nui withheld from-
him. The seatch for radops .continued and AYDENIM 1 indicated at .
_the end of the period that he had some eight further prospects
including several women, They are currently being processed.

 

 

“4.In support of other: Station interests AMDENIN 2 has spent - ;
considerable time preparing a study of strateric Places in éastern
+ PBRUMEN where the blowing. Of_adproximately five bridges would’

/in-one part from rapidly coming to the aid. of troops in the other

j- part. .These efforts have been fo warded to Intel Support for
- development. He has also been kout for fisherman leads

. which could be developed into ratlines’ for infiltrating agents —
and materiel, Two such leads appear verv worthwhile, one is being
utilized by the SHATTER Team and the other will probably be used-
by one of the Las Villas teams in preparation, He used AMLION 2
to food advantage in developing these leads and continues to look
for others while AMLION 1 is assisting in the training of the
SHATTER Team fisherman as interpretor..

  

 

Fe = §. The internal asset AMEPOCH | 6 whom AMDENIM 1 developed
‘thru a@ legal traveler who. carried W.svstem, has now been ~
contacted thru a YELLOYTAIL IIIs us and is” ‘being | .
orepared to receive an ‘initia: 3}

nto the Matanzas area.-\ It is: >
-for ‘the remainder of this--team: tha materiel they will require
to carry out their operational t sks. See UFGA-6159 for the
-YELLOWTAIL III After Action Report..on the, sea rendezvous.

  
  

   
       
 
     
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

   

; 6. Just before the ‘end. of, th period
DENIM 12. supposedly -had ‘word: lof’. inmenient ‘uprising on behal
of Rebel Army officers in three- ‘provinces. Considerable effort wa
- devoted by the Station to running ‘this lead down only to find
that. AMDENIM 11 was involved
was. trying to obtain ODYOKE
“~ had ‘contact with GPFOCUS.-sev
- lon the! basis of AMDENIM 2 2 fo’ on this. ‘contact and
- having lied about his activities at-YOACRE: where he claimed to have
fone out of the fence with the help of: ODOATH personnel to contact.
: be

movement's leaders. —

 

 

   
     
 
   

 

 

 
  

 

 

  

“was worth and” at no ‘tine’ expressed anv “real credéence’in the story
nor endeavoured to obtain: action on the basis of it.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

 

le UFS 1613, Subject Cuban Arms for Columbia is the oniy _
ANDENTY l_renort which was ai sseminated,

8. _Throurhout the period AMDENE™ 1 provided spot reports on
nossibly significant develooments within the exile community and
the AMBUD I organization. These included such items as the DRE raid
on Havana, the “Manolo Rey meeting in Puerto. Rico, the URIS diffi-
culties in getting into the AM2'D 1 oreanization, Alpha 66, Jerry
Patrick Hemaine, and his reconnendations re reorzanizine the AMBUD 1
organization and the maritine situation, .For the most nart he

. 2 - 2SIS 73
Toe ” QUSSINCATION PAGE NO ‘
389 $30 USE PREVIOUS EOrnON gpegep C23) connmne 2 : Wp
104-10172-10141

 

‘

      
   

 

  
   
 
   

the John F. Kennedy Assassination
rds Céilection Act of 1992 :
JSC 2107 Note)
NW'53295 6/15/17 . ate

Released-un

 

Po : ™, oe

DISPATCH

 

can xed

\
LS er

  

sao .

Chief

MRT CYROSE AMDENIN 1. fs
.L@Prosress Report - 30 Sente
ACTON REQURD REFERENCES 7 7 ~*

 
   
 
   

  
   
 

     

     

 

REFERENCE: UFGA $212, 13 Aupust 1962

    

nus:
attr

  

Distribution
- Addressee

    
   

HEADQUARTERS FUL MUMBER

=e Bere .

    
 
  

      
  

  
  
   

 
  
 

104-10172-10141 oo oe

 

canon SYMOK AND SUSE
UFCA~6179

CLaverication -

  

. _ CONTINUATION OF
“7. pISPATCH

    
    

 
 

   

 

 

maintains an imoartial attitude towards the various exile leaders
and erouns and is-alvavs renuinely constructive in his comnents,

‘le follows the direction Of the Cage Offices and does not allow |
his disappointrent at the slow pace of eevelopnents towards

liberating PBRUYEN to interfere with his work for us,

  
 
 

    
    
      
   
  

9. COSTS ~ The following expenditures were channeled thru

AMDENIM 1 durine the reporting period, Note that he did not ‘
and has not previously received anv yemuneration for his oun services,

1) ANGLAD 1's widow: $ 300.00
2) ANLIOY 1 2S OL: ~ 20000 ;
3) [Antonico PEREZ Quesada 325.09 fishing boat -expensés

Total _" $ 825.00

‘Service was performed for AMDEXT'{ 2 in response to his request | :
for assistance in obtaining a re-entry permit for his Spanish maid: -
who desired to visit her.dying mother in Spain and had not been .
able to get thru ODURGE red tape'on her own. The matter was taken
care of in less than 36 hours and went a lone way towards convincing
AMDENTIM tg family that hia absences from home at all hours was not
without its advantares, i

       
   
   
       

  
   
   
  

    
      
  
 

  

10, PLANS - The intention at present is to proceed with

AMDENIM 1 in the same terms indicated above, .The possibility continues

for expanding his role of supplying the Statior, with information on:
community activities, Operational ‘leads and as front man for activiti
‘ not sufficiently jelled to expose Station Dersonnel by making him:
action coordinator within’ the .AMBUD Y_ organization, This hinges o
decisions yet to be’ made as to just -how ‘the organization is going
_to' Fit into future Plans. In the meantime ANDENIM 1 will continue
‘to be used as before with emphasis being placed on the development
Of leads for ratlines to be incorporated in the Fisherman operations
.and teams with radio operators to take advantage of the ratlines, ..

  
  
    

     
   
 
     
      
 
 
 

 

          

END OF DISPATCH

’

   

Vp

 
 

USE PREVIOUS Commo
