cc: Legislative Counsel cpwin mee
; Mr. John Warner Cr! wai femee ee oa

 

30 January 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: DO/Security

SUBJECT: Thomas James Devine - 201267708
OS #42069

: 1. Subject is a former Agency staff employee who resigned in
1953 to go into. private business. A CSA was granted DO Division on
12 June 1963 for use of subject in Project WUBRINY operations. Since
this time, he has been used as a cleared and witting commercial asset
under Project WUBRINY. He has proved to be most competent and
trustworthy. :

2. Subject is a personal friend and unofficial foreign affairs
advisor to Representative George Bush of Texas. Mr. Bush recently
requested subject to accompany him to Vietnam. He did so during the
period 26 December 1967-11 January 1968. Prior. to this trip; subject
requested the undersigned to arrange for the Department of State (Mr.
Macomber) to be advised that subject's Agency clearance is current.
DO/Security advised the Agency Legislative Counsel, Mr. John Warner,
of subject's clearance, and Mr. Warner advised Mr. Macomber of State.
However, as reported by subject, the Agency acknowledged in an inter-
agency check that information on subject was as of 1953. It became
necessary for the Department of Defense to issue an interim top. secret
clearance on subject to cover his Vietnam trip with Mr. Bush.

3. . Subject has asked if the Agency can update his clemrance.so
that he may have a standing top secret clearance status. He expects to
make further trips abroad with Mr. Bush, and feels that a standing TS
clearance would greatly facilitate such trips.

4... Subject's current role in Project WUBRINY is limited to
being a cleared and witting contact in the investment banking firm which

“houses and manages the proprietary corporation WUSA/ LINE. ,

A
‘5, The undersigned recommends subject who is the most discreet
-and security conscious business contact that the undersigned has met.

‘Gale Allen
DO/CO
 

Ce yes ONLY wae

 

we
, 29 November 1975 xh 457]
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Operations
SUBJECT: Messrs. George Bush and Thomas J. Devine

1. Through Mr. Gale Allen, C/CCS/PRG, I learned that
Mr. George Bush, DCI designate, has prior knowledge of the
now terminated Project WUBRINY/LPDICTUM which was involved
in proprietary commercial operations in Europe. He became
aware of this project through Mr. Thomas J. Devine, a former
CIA Staff Employee and later, oil-wildcatting associate with
Mr. Bush. , Their joint activities culminated in the establishment
of Zapata Oi] which they eventually sold. After the sale of
Zapata Oi1, Mr. Bush went into politics, and Mr. Devine became
a member-of the investment firm of Train, Cabot and Associates,
New York. - °

2. The attached memorandum describes the close relationship
between Messrs. Devine and Bush in 1967-1968 which, according to
Mr. Allen, continued while Mr. Bush was our Ambassador to the
United Nations. Mr. Devine's 201 file shows no operational
involvement after 1968.

 

 

 

Chief, Cover & Commercial Staff
Att: A/S Para. 2 .

[30 Jan 68 DO/CO Memo to
DO/Security re Mr. Devine]

mee pete ye E2 IMPDET CL BY 059770
tiie &.
