‘oa t0ta7-40119

 

  

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
. Tuesday. - 8 November 1977 _ :

 

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on International Operations, who was following up ona
request he made on4 November for a copy of the secrecy oath which
former DCI Richard Helms had signed. I told Mr. Glennon that I was
checking this out with the appropriate elements of CIA and hoped to
/ have. an answer for him by the following day. ; ,

   
  
   

 

: (internal Use, Only - PG) LIAISON Spent the better part
of the afternoon in the Coordination & Review staff conference room with
~” Michael J. Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on
_ International Organizations, House International Relations Committee.
_ | Also present were DDO representatives
. . (for only the beginning of the meeting) and | We discussed .
1 the Subcommittee's request to make certain CIA information public... __
. and Mr. Hershman gave us a summary he had prepared for the use of
- Members at upcoming public hearings. Mrs.| _—|will review the
_ summary and sanitize it as necessary. The remainder of the session
'. Was spent in an exchange of views as to CIA's role in ongoing |
Congressional investigations of ROK/KCIA and related subjects.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

39. (Internal Use Only.'- RJK) LIAISON Spoke with Lot Cooke,
on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning . ~
William R. Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works
for the Rand Corporation, Since Harris has already been briefed at
Rand on.compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for himto — __
receive a briefing on therm at this time. Jack Williamson, SO/DCL, .
has been advised.

.Gooke also requested: the clearances held by Professor G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on

' Assassinations, and Gary Cornwell, of the staff, because they wish to
review a sensitive Committee document, After checking with Dan Godar,
OS, I advised him that they had their proper clearances for reviewing
the documents. . -

. 40. (Unclassified -RSG)LIAISON Spoke with Betsey Wolf,
House ra ithes ssinations staff, and offered to send to
her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document
was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents _
involving the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Bula

 
