74-00000

 

$o-O2L 64-58

2. By 5 July 1956, the fourth flignt, the USSR was aware
of the purpese of the missions and were teking counter actlon-
One positive action was the standdow of civil flignts while the
mission aircraft was over the USSR, and & second action which is
yelieved related is the moving of MiG-19 aircraft inte East
Gersany and Poland on 7 July 1956. Also MIG-19's were moved
inte Hungary at about this time. - :

3. The performance of the Soviet system on the 5 July migsion,
201, wes indeed curious. While the action evident fron (COMIND 2 Y
4s not clear an explanation which appears to fit the knowm facts
is offered 25 follows: As 2 result of the previous missions, the
Soviets had equcluded the essential facts concerning the missions :
j.e., that they were for reconnaissance, that they flew eborel PY
feet, and that a penetration 2s deep as Moscow wes possible. ‘they
procably surmised that the 5 July mission wes heeded for Moscow when
the track appeared on & northeasterly heading. ‘The Loss of the
target When it entered Soviet territory was prosacly deliberate and
the "reé& herring" track returning to the yest wes either @ dodge
or a convenience to avoid proadcasting @ track for @lL the system
to see that 2 TRostile or intruder” was coming over Moscow with no
means aveilable to stop it. Tais idea is supported by the use
of 2 reid mumber assigned in the region just beyond the point 97
smere the track hed been "ost". In addition, the treck wes not .
labeled “hostile or intruder” when it ves proadeast after it
nad passed beyond Hoscovs The reporting of the treck when it aid
2p0ear Wes only by Mostow and it has been suggested. thet other
stztions had been justracted not to proadcast the track. Further, it my
| may not be & coincidence that the heigat brozdcast was almost
' exactly half of the true altitude of the mission aircraft, but on
the next missions, four days later, the altitude reporving Wes
i consistently enove] _—| feet.
———

 

Le By 9 July 1956, in addition to the evident recogmition of
the great peight of the mission flights, tracking wes better and
in general the performance of the warning system Was much improved.

5. The next day, 410 July 1956, the Soviet eir aefense warning)
syste closed a 3000 mile track with only two short periods of ee)

confusion oF track Loss: Altitude reporting vas over feet
th one plot vessel | which was only 100 feet off target.

  
 

 

6. The first eight missions proved that the eir defense warning
system is deployed in depth. This wes evident fran bova the continuity >
[ of treck and most forcefully from the ELL? date collected. Somel__| :

intercepts of Soviet Bloc redars operating in the 2000 me/s band were F
_obtained by project eit as follows: |

Other 30. ‘These numbers Cannot be equated to in- i
diviausl radar sets since the same radar may beink sccepted more than i
|

 

    

 

 

 

 

nae. bone er WOE located, including ew sites. Some

additional | signals were identified but available information

_ dees not permit devermination of Location so that it must be con- |
eluded that these signals include poth known and new sites. Because i

? the limitetion of ELINT to the [} vend and the Soviet

vactice of colloeating radars on different frequencies the totel \

: wenber of radars may be expected to be at least dovble the num ar

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lp . _ohe

  
 

". - 8C-02164458 _

Girtrea:cy of Initial Missions

 

 

   
  
  

eted. to eight penetrations of an unprecedented nature, seven
a period of only eight days. It must be remembered that
the only basis of judging the performance of the Soviet

is imvortant because it is clear from] 1) 24

 

 

 

Rowever, some tentative conclusions may be drawn frost
these are indicated as follows:

 

se inisial Clignts and.

ho fact that these missions came as 2 surprise,

 

L. In spite of th
t etected. This is clear evidence that their
is above eet.
a
~ 23 =

 
 

 

- SC-021.64_-53

7. Confusion and track loss seemed to be related to the 9 )
presence of large nuabers of Pighters althougn the seturetion point
has not been datermined because of insufficient date.

   
 
   

8. The question of redars for height finding, the carabdilities
_| in this role, the introduction of ROCK CAXEs and later
cvelopments are discussed in enother section. tt is believed,
however, that these missions were a catalyst in the introduction

of ROCK CAKEs. 99

big

ou

~ 25 -

| TOP SECRET —EIDER— CHESS

           
