 

 

the ‘occasion that, ve ‘ talkea,- I ‘realized that his way of thteking is -

 

opposed ‘to the Government of Cubr today since he spoke badly of the _ . . my

 

fimbessador saying that he obliges everyone in the Consulate and
Embassy to go on Fridays to the Embassy to receive indoctrination : : oO

until eleven at. nights. t that the Consul also rakes Life unbearable and

   

 

 

that ‘he’ and’ agen Yeran | “name! ho he once presented to ine,
argue with the Consul and ‘other Erbassy employeee. This | || b G
also eppears to tee good person, ani he 14 unsympathetic to the :

Cuban regine.,
{Frasance ras hig famtly in exile tn the U.S. believe his

—

father and one sister and brother work for Plrestene im Chico. He fa. +, -

rerrief tc a Spanish voran {[n Faris,

 
{qué ‘su 1
hableba cuy

, | pers
[trasaneo.

’-en Paris con una Sra Ce

farbicn me conto que vio a Venegas éste regresaba de

. Argetia y que le decia que. Ben Be irador..de ‘Fidél y-que la

ruptura del. partido Corunista Argelino era un ardid para sucar ‘dinero .

de los amerieasnos pero que era.sosialista mus que Fidel!. st aa

Bill le cuento todo esto a si cree que puede ser inte-esante que.

cl. yo trate de que este Sr\ Trasanco trabaje para nosotros yo creo que lo podri:

lograr hablando con el-en otra-odesion yo deje el caning preparado pues

solicite en el Consulado de Peris un pasaporte que tendra que venir de
@uba y se dexora 40 dias mas ocmenos, cuando tenga que pasar & recojerlo

podria erpez r a hablar con el si Uds lo ecreen conveniente despues de ~

chequear bien este sr.
im el consulado tarnbicn vi gran oantidad de revistas y de

libros de Cuba que entregan coro propaganda en Paris .

        

Bueno Bill nis saludos afectuosos y espero que esto sirva de algo
para tratar de erreglar 61 problema de nuestra Cuba .

ecuerdos

 

is

iw
awd
2
   
    
       
   
    

He also told me the last,

. Algeria, and he told pie that’,

e , passport in the Paris Consviate which wilh Y have to cone trom outa and

-which will take ho days...rore. ‘or ‘less. ‘neo I have to go by to pick

 

it up, I could begin talking to hin if you's ‘think. it beet after chieeking
this gentleman out.

At the consulate I also eav a large quantity of Cuban Megazines

 

 

and Books that they deliver for propaganda in Feris.
Well, Bill, ry fond regards anc I hope this serves somewhat in : o

trying to selve cur Cuban problem.

 

 
