104-10331-10367

 

INTERNAL USE ONLY
23 March 1994

Memorandum For: C/HRG

Subject: Nosenko and the Mangold Litigation

I received a call trom (es ae He this morning
concerning the Nosenko files in the JFK files. I described
the files again (about 4000+ pages that include transcripts
of all his interrogations and numerous studies on his bona
fides and treatment by the Agency including the Solie and
Hart reports and an 835 page comprehensive study). Since
Nosenko is an important figure in the JFK assassination
story and the files are part of tthe sequestered collection,
HRG is reviewing the files under the JFK Assassination
Records Collections Act. However, we were aware that some
of the documents were part of the Mangold litigation and
wanted to make sure that they were properly coordinated.

Lecese te gh sata that the Mangold litigation should not be a a
actor in HRG's review. If the files were subject to the

JFK Records Act, they should be processed under that Act.

When the review is complete, a list of the documents

released should be provide so that OGC can treat them the

same in the Mangold case.

background on the handling of Nosenko files and what were

the "secrets" given what we know is publicly available. She
said for years the agency "glomared" Nosenko except for the
Oswald information: however, once Golitsyn became public

that ended. Today, the battle over his bona fides and how

he was treated are public knowledge. The Agency up until a
couple years ago had not released some of the studies (she
mention Solie) but she was not sure that this was still the

case or if it was possible to continue to deny them. DO *] Y

I also talked with Kathy Stricker (yesterday) to get some ~

protected the information provided by Nosenko on other
Soviet sources and leads for possible recruitment. This
type of information should continue to be protected.

Kathy Stricker's comments are consistent with HRG's handling
of the Nosenko files. We are considering all of the files
as related; his bona fides is a key element of the story and
there was a large amount of information including parts of
the studies on him in both the Oswald 201 and the JFK hard
copy collection. We have deleted information provided on
other sources and operations not related to the JFK story.
We are also recommending release of the rest of the studies.
Although they contain potentially embarrassing information
for the Agency (as did the IG report on the Castro plots),
there doesn't appear to be grounds for denying under the JFK
Act.

 
