13-00000

oe

Calg ms of 20 See th B Woven Gum
on D) Ae teaaen, i. cathe, of Ca. gen (ex .

- bane fivee . oe 19.6, ty pond $57

6) He J ite fe. ke /- (2b. Che bo
Gf qui 16 / a iad Canad
13-00000

 

American “clergyman

CASE

Americah.vomen who met and aerried
soviet citizen in Cix2

Awerican student

American tourist: .
Aaeriean student or tourist
&uerican corresporcent -
Italien student
Ttalian student
Italian student
Iranian retvrnee
nest Ceraan student
Swedish student
Ewedish student
Euedish businessaan
Swedish student
Averican teacher
Auericanbus ineesnan
Prenehran on trip ts

Catlean residing and working Hoseow

 

Zz student?

 

italian student
Finnish student
Aoparently Greek; Getails unimown

American tourist (urhalanced, fuss-

fan-vorn father vrder FSI survey) _
Italian commnist dosrnalist

Swedish student
Aserican businessman

SCT CT

a

1
\

CONE TIME TO
. PROGEES VISA

THAVEL ©

Moa

4 sonths

fe« months

fe
13-00000 _

| Mew vf 2 gt, 64.

~ Sefe ohtn SL free tow sb
Sta bike «f/f 2¢ fro OF dees hee eh

“OW. Cow wen Att ke wes (tin © a Mod y Fee

. Wen cade hos f A Cis el on :

f
 

 

ei fe Cotten 7 We bef Pts 4 he. 6) See odtircte.

4, febericce [tee cypher en fe. es “be Ge f
. losen 6G to Ste °
om fe a ~ Ee fe ae “ gerne /. Mame of | al

a
f “eg oull be hos Qi tee WA bes Casé&

Cee wiry le
10 tyre ty a re Gus Stl 4 ae, ft C

fiver be fares to “4, ae Ge. { 7t- epprer el
by pee adhe,

ence nate aoa

 

‘O) 721 be we yr a, & vas ag baw ee ok C; Lanter lortere

fas {: LY - be ot
u

Pot bra gt.

“ / a fe

 

Lat : Core OS
a :
N : . )
Vv oer _ % : te iOde yg
(rn
. tease i.
c f

D Deb of opp lertapr St bob vere. bee ews

fev de hice L} tu Lo f flue cae Criwte , AS reer A

[ted-4- —~ rte Vad )
“@ Zoe peep fh Mae £6 ar wee pu en A

Wao LO, _ ae

eee = aemmene ne
~16 baa ty 1 qe

L

a Ob pi be on tle eta ath JE
mie Fad ee Fa MO een oe, .
13-00000

 

“© At Ate
- Gur up by adhe SO bell ke OG

ro wa — ;
ef ces tects Gree. oo Caw cep: Pa 5 Sec A fonntoy 5
neha ae ee

with pare (mie Spewres cubheof LU.

cp 3 2c Caster (130 u: <)
a. tLe bee ‘ veh fe: ott dng alt

 

re a ne “ boca cee es ma one fap
Pree ad bar. fia. 4 fod ray fs é
a
fone Lhe ee £ ee Got shh &

— dre. culan al [i eth, j as. _44 fu ufonaeo= 44

— Leg cee t tod | corr meme nn = ana a 1
A A .
13-00000

ok
OBL me Epi y

eae rip, if Sie Sprrseee “f Via rie he :

debtond eG epuer a LOG fs

fe. fre fa bn bay L. ~-3 Z a / bede
of Boa aera a f& x exks CG)
13-00000

- SECRET

. . a. Do the Soviet authorities normally permit Soviet
re “citizens married tu foreign nationals to emigrate from the
Sovict Union to the homelands of their spouses? 7 ot

~ ~ b. | Do they normally permit such Soviet citizens to
accompany (i.e. depart simultaneously with) their spouses
from the Soviet Union?

 

c. How long does it take such Soviet citizens to get
Soviet exit visas ior such a purpose (time lapse from application
to granting of visas)? ,

4. Concerning the first two questions (3a and 3b above) I pointed out .
_. that we had addressed ourselves mainly to the question of Soviet citizens
. being allowed to accompany their spouses abroad while State dealt only
with the larger question of Sovicts married to foreigners being alowed
to emigrate without reference to whether or not they left simultaneously
with or at another time from their spouses. Mr. Slawson commented
that this explanation was most helpful and he reread what both we and

State had said in that light.

5. By way of further explanation, I said that the statements in

paragraph 6 of our memorandum of 6 April 1964 concerning Soviets being
permitted to accompany their foreign spouses abroad were based on a
teview of 26 cases, of which 10 involved Americans. . In only four of
these cases did a Soviet wife leave the USSR in the company of ner foreign

. hasband; in 14 of the cases the foreign spouse departed alone; and in the

° "remaining seven cases insufficient details are known to permit u¢ to

categorize them. I added that although State's information began by
citing the issuance of 724 quota and non-quota immigrant visas by the
American Embassy in Moscow during the period FY 1954 to December
1963, it did not indicate how many of these visas were for Soviet citizens
who had married U.S. nationals. Actually State provided detailed
information for only sixteen cases and did not indicate in many of these
whether or not the Soviet was permitted to accompany the foreign spouse.

/6. In response to

so SEGRET
104-10004-10213

 

  

 

SECRET
YeEQ- ATA

9 Fuly 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

- SUBJECT . : Discussion with Warren Commission Staff Member

REFERENCE: Letter from J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel of the
President's Commission, to Mr. Richard Helms

dated 3 July 1964

 
 

loin dS. Dusspoar Wee es oo Aas FC abed ag

 

A yet, fee .
Me & a Gases 5
7 Wi 7 Apros of C/SR and the DOP, I met with Mr. W.
Davia ‘Stawson of the staff of the President's Comrission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy at 1406 hours on this date in
the Commission's offices at 200 Maryland Avenue, N.E., Washington,
D.C. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss apparent inconsistencies
in material provided the Commission by CIA and ty the Departmen: of
State which were calicd to our attention in a letter from the General
Counsel of the Cummission to Mr. Helms, dated 3 July 1964.

 

2. By way of introduction, Mr. Slawson said that in the portion of the
Commission's report that he was writing, he sould have to deal with the
question of wheti.er or not the OSWALDs! depzrture {rom the USSR ~ and
the circumstances {i.e. timing) of that departure - were unusual or .
suspicious in any way. He expressed his belief that they probably sere
not and cited Sovict relaxation in such matters jn the post-Stalin era.
However, he war.ted to be sure in his own ming that our information was
not in conflict with that which the Commission had received from State’
since all of that information would remain in the records of the

Commission.
3. After stating my belief that. there was no real disagreement or

inconsistency betueen the information from CLA and that from State, I
expressed the view that the matter resolved itseif into three questions:

Document Number WG7-S6 4 i De the Sovist

JUN 876

tor FOIA Review on . eS COPY.

jad.

SiUhEE, = NE

eas ath slawsen 4 Tily em girstions.
13-00000

\

6. in response ty a question from Mr. Slawsan I stated that most
of the'2Z6 cases upon which we based Gur statements involved foreign
* students, exchange teachers and other relatively transient persons,
_ and while a number of cases have certain points im common, they bear
‘fittle similarity to the OSWALD case in that none imvolved a defector who -
‘married prior to repatriating. Inoted that paragraph 6 of our 6 April
1964 memorandum to the Commission had pointed this out. Mr. Slawson
‘indicated that hg was now satisfied on this matter. :

a .

‘ 7. Concerning the length of time taken by Soviet authorities to
process exit visas for Soviet citizens married to foreign nationals
{question 3c above), I stated that, in my upinion, the information
provided by State (in the third enclosure to Mr. Meeker's letter)
substantially corresponded to the views expressed in paragraphs 6 and 7
of our memorandum to the Commission dated 6 April 1964. Mr. Slawson

asked if it would be possible to elaborate paragraph 7 of our memorandum
of 6 April by providing @ statistical breakdown of the cases on which our
statements were based. 1 indicated that this could be done.

8. At this point Mr. Slawson stated that as 2 result of our discussion
he felt that the question of possible inconsistencies had been resolved,

- However, he asked that «e send a brief written reply to the Commission's
letter of 3 July 1964 embsdying the substance of what [had said concerning
the basis for statements included in our 6 April 1964 memorandum. {This
would include the gist of the draft reply to the Commission which I showed
to C/SR on 8 July plus an elaboration of our statements concerning Soviet

visa applications. ]

9. Mr. Slawson indicated that he would be sending parts of his report
dealing with the Sovict intelligence services to CIA for checking as to
their accuracy. He did not say when this would ocomr. :

10. After concluding the meeting with Mr. Slawson, Iyead Volume 52
of the transcript of testimony before the Commissian. s included the
reinterview of Marina OSWALD. :

{

;
Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/Ci/ Research
13-00000

on an

Oo. Sve nei LB, wnt Loy. Pd a fastet b A

alle & soso fom Ut hanalond of Spruce

~ Sfale s-4° > ae — eles 724 yroe opphichtere

ro mo, . ieee

  
 

- Ue le absie of Ong ; fo act sey.

ae aa PE we &
, eS (ce clip wb sone ahsSs ) Sprnese

~ SE chete ert Say

 

 

~ te che aide Met Kay be et

® Hhrw Ory hot a bh Ss we cls 4 5t Sys steno
Ko tep 6 0 ban arn 5 je Spee >
Bun EP eek ee Stok : Lyfe

Ceses, whol uu beers << (twee

Notes ced by LMS i hctecee

tah USB al Slaw of ee
. G a a] je i “hey
OS: OPe, | Het LETN F

Ail (te XAA2 “272 } . pees
