 

  

Nees! - ew

AMTURVY_OPFRATLON VIL 19-6-88

Stas ae My jf or
| . : / :
eh-9/2 (

rn 0 oa, The AMTURVY Operation was designed for the

purpose of conducting sabotage operations against Cuba.

 

It consisted. of a net of 13 AMTURVY assets whose primary
function, apart from sabotage, was the preparation of
target studies. and analysis of sabotage operations. The -
files contain only one’ reference to assassination, that
in 1963 and the continuation of the same plan through to
1965. Based on a review of the files; it is apparent

that the following assassination plan could have been known to

r
the Cubans, including the overall purpose of the AMDURVY
Operation.

. 1
2, ASSASSINATION PLAN - AMTURVY-13.
AMTURVY-13 (Mario SALABARRIA) was closely r

acquainted with Fidel Castro as far back as 1947 and there is son
‘some indication that they both may have been involved in the
1947 plan to topple the Trujillo Government in the Pominican
Republic. However, in 1948, SALABARRIA was responsible for
the arrest of Fidel Castro, this due to the latters agitation
on behalf of one Emilio TRO. Salabarria was later sentenced
“to 30 years in prison for having murdered TRO/. He remained .
- in prison until 1961 wlien he appealed for parole to one
Lionel SOTO Prieto (201-055332). As Salabarria had once r
“saved Soto's life, the latter appealed the case to Raul
Castro: Salabarria was subsequently released from prison
“in’ Februpay,; 1961. The terms of his release from jail

are unknown,

 

-
_3. By the summer of 1963 Salabarria was seeking ~
cee -.weapons and funds for a proposed. assassination attempt against
rr enn een tartan

 
 

104-10506-10034] ;
aan wk . .
. 6 vf . Sot ( ¢

' SECRET
June 1977

SUBJECT: Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar (AMIURVY-13) 201-738504

1. Brother of Julio SALABARRIA

 
 

 

eta e vey

! [inllane DAZ ebutwosr)
| Fidel Costrg. Through his confidant , ANTURVY - 4a Salabarria
Arupo ote? sesas YERAMA Abo tsc)

' sought’ contact with AMTURVY - y Salabarria had known AMTUPRVY-1's
brother, AMCONCERT - 1 for twenty years and assumed that AMTURVY-1.
| was in touch with the AGENCY Chow A assumed this is nnknown) .
At his first meeting with AMTURVY-1, in the summer of 1963, .
 Salabarric said he was’ a member. of a | group plotting Castro's
. death, and needed money and weapons in order to carry out
the plan “(AMCROAK- 1 was also a member of this. group). Tn
‘return for this asSistance, Salabarria offeted to catry ovt

thinor Sabotage Operations for AMTURVY-1's. "American contacts"

ee

Chow he knew of these "contacts" is unknown, unless AMTURVY-1
told him).
4. In October 1963; when the Agency was satisfied

‘with Salabarria's bona fides "we" (the Agency ) managed to
‘get -a few pistols, revolvers, and sabotage materials into
Salabarria's hands, through AMTURVY-4. At this time AMTURVY-4

was receiving materials from the Agency through: the pouch of.

abemeineainenians 2

_ th Embassy in Havana: AMTURVY-4 was being assisted
in this matter by Quantuw-51), Whether or not the materials
for Salabarrias assassination plan came through tre |]
pouch is unknown. : .

St. The. following is an excerpt from UFGA ]9214,
of 28 December 1964, the debriefing of AMTURVY - -1 who was

successfully exfiltrated from Cuba in October 1964! (see Waa (fery
As eke. sey aa

  
- and We was in fact informed of. the Agency's opposition af:

of Salabarria's plan to assassinate Fidel Castro and provided

“réleéaséd from jail following a personal apeal through Raul

case with Mario Salabarria.

 

“6. By early 1964, however, the Agency had become i

¢

dissatisfied with Salabarria and his proposed assassination -

plan, and had notified the AMTURVY net (in particular
AMTURVY-1, ANTURVY-4, and AMCROAK-1) to cease working on
the assassination idea. Salabarria's later attempt to

assass inate Fidel Castro was not approved by the Agency,

to his plan.

7. COMMENTS .
“If as the file shows, the. Agency approved
Salabarria with the weapons (this in Octoher of 1963), Castro

could have been awaré of the plan, especially as Salabarria's

éasé presents eértain CI: considerations. Salabarria had been

Castro; and this when Fidel Gastro was well aware of the

fact that Salabarria was responsible for the death of a
close. friend, Emilio TRO; not to mention the fact that

Salabarria was responsible for Castro's arrest in 1948,

-What deal, if any, was made with Salabarria in return for

his release from jail is unknown, Nonetheless, Exx Fidel

Castro has a recorded history of not being one to forgive, a

‘especially when he has. been affected personally as was the

 
