 

 

mad at euch other. Then Bosch got er. al in Vene-
anela ayain, along with a whole bunch of Cuban exiles,
Stories huve-Been seeping out in the Venezuelan press
linking Bosch with both Letel:er and the Cutan plane.
1 picked up similar stories in Mia:ni, My sources thera

men, £.0.L informants and a few veterans of the Ven-
ezuglan secret police, the DISTP. Some peuple say
DISIP has tortured the hell cut of these guys, bat
other people say DISIP Is in bed with them—holding
therm under protective custody till the heat blows over.
It's the biggest damn mess you ever sav. ”

 

   

er heel

   

what you're up to, would you?”
Rothchild and Branch leok up at the : man standing
.in the aisle. He wears a leisure suit with a Bashy shirt
“opened to his sternum, showing a lot cf tan and som
tufted chest hair. oe
1 "Well" says Branch, “ not sure. What are you
doing? We're just thinking sbout racetracks and Cu
bans and stuff like that.” =
"7 L"Corae on now. You can tell me,” the man urges,
™“Don't tell himi anything,” saya Hilda Inclan from
behind. She is laughing as if it were a game, but her
eres signal a warning. - othe
“" Branch is way off-balance. “I'll take the ftth. Why”
* ‘don't we start with you?” 77 7.
- “Qkay,"’says the man, smiling. “rn play it your way,
fciend: My name’s George Yoss. I'm an assistant
state’s attorney out of Miami.” He flashes an 1D card.
~ Branch and Rothchild can’t believe it, He seems more
{ tive a condominium salesman who wishes he could ba a
goif pro. “fs that right, Hilda?” Branch asks. .
ees but he’s being a bad boy tonight,"* she re-
ind his own busineis, whatever

  
 
 
 
  
  

   

 

 
   
  

 

   
 

 

  

“Em: xo! ng to give ‘yeu one more

poe says Yoss,
"t we start

“chance. I} know you're a ‘journalist. | rhy di
with Who you work: for?”
, Branch looks down an
{bea ‘covering up ‘the news clippings unconsciously. :

“These gave. me away, eh?” he says weakly. “I'll tell

 

 

 

 

On i ete the name of your. hotel and EN call yo
get our feet on the ground We can talk ¢)

 

 

a strange” country and you guys could: Riad yours
on the next pling out. PU, sive you one
thik I'l lay low for the momen: :
oss makes a few more thrusts, then saunters off.

   
 
   

. the sly,” Braoch says. “That sure didn’t work out. This
, filgtt's ike a goddamn convention! Tell’ ine; Hilda, ~
Nose of the Cuban cops is named Rat! Diaz, I hope?" *
<7°That's Diaz right behind you,” she réplies._

_DO% shit!" says Branch. He turns slowly ia his seat
“and*@ads himself _ Baring at one | handsome:
_Cudans. | z

      
   
 
 

tell me the Cubana in jail are almost Wl feewor CLA -

   

" "You folks “wouldn't t rind telling me who you agreand be healthy for usa if we could keep the twa groups
> 2 separate. The only way we

 

 

  
 

 

 

  

 

 
  

ca ay need me down here. You never Know. This _

 

‘Maybe I was too set on getting Into‘the country on

    

vie, >. He's a survivor if tt here ever was one.”

WARDS INI SR

  

“And you're Raul.” Bre “ty gives hima p hand-
shake and Sumps down in his seat, Hilda Insian shakes
her head and walks off.” : : .
“Who's Radli” asks Rothehild.
“He's Rolando Martine2’ son-in-law, One of the Wa-
& Depiatt a iot of Lime with him ra Mismi.”

“What's so had about that?” asks Rothehud

 

      

tert

 

“I don't know, It's just that he probably koows who

my. Cuban contacts ace, andl I don’t know what the hell
hu's up te. You see, sonic of the people who have been
telling me about the terrorists are rght-wingers and
- some of them are Ieft-winyers. F don’t care about any-
. thing except the Letelier murder, but I think i: would

do that is to stay kind

    
 

of incognito.” wr. o>

“You're doing great so far,” Rothchild saya His
mind has been wandering over ihe -Rusch briefing.
“What makes you think we can get into the prison to
. see Basch and his friends?” he asks. “And why swould
they want to talk.tous?”- °° + +

 

* Bosch knows that would mean curtains for him. He
~ also knows that he could get killed any day in Vene-
‘zuela by either his friends or his enemies. He may fig:
-ure that-his best chance to survive is to come ta the
‘United States, What we hope is that he tants t get
some of his story out in the American preas to feree
the government to turn the screws and get him back in
the States. That's what I hear from some of our Vene-

guelan contacts. I don't know if it’s true, but ther are _

pretty high up. Now even if we can’t talk to Bosch and

‘the other prisoners directly, we might get stut iadi-

rectly from the Venezuelans.” :

+ “What happens if all the Venezuelan contacts ture
ye. . .

  

“Then we'll just have to poke e around,” od aya Brunch,
“I have a lot of names. There's only one guy I know”
‘down here petsonally. He's a Cuban named Ricardo
Morales. { interviewed him back in 1974, just delore
he came to- -Veneauela. People in Miami tell me he's
way up high “in the DISIP, the secret police. I dan
; know whit he's doing now, but he might be a grod

have any illusions about the Dusiness | he's in, and he
_ makes fun of all-the people who do. Ricardo f% an old
operator, even though he’s only in his-late thirties. He
‘worked for Castro's secret police, Then he worked far-
the C.LA. as an explosives expert. He fought for the.
Agency in the Cango in the mid-Sixties, and then be”
cathe an F.B. informant. He's. the guy wha got Bosch
‘convicted in: 196¥.Sniall world, isn't it? Ho surfaced
Jin court with eversthing on tape. Then all hell broke |
loose. Morales’ cdr was blown up. He survived dut -
blamed Hosch for, trying to kill him. Morales himself
‘was indicted for first-degree murder, but he Sot ot,

   

he must hate Rosch, then,” gays Rothebild, _
“Well, yes," Bays Branch cottn od.

. “it's along shot,” Branch ansivefs, “But Bosch i isin’.
a ‘tough spot. The Castro government wants him, and -

 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 

    
     
    
   
   
    
     
 
    

       
 
    
 
   
   
   
  

 
 

 

¢

 

  

 

Henach hesie
tet ta tell Kothe
oll CBA, Cubana

_ tacugh to kill each other.

 
  
 

in Miami beliewe Bosch and Morales
have patched things up. Uranch does not
believe it and it would inake things tes
gnarled, “It's amazing that the Veaseue
hans wouhl havea guy like Morales high
up in their security apparatus,” he says
absentmindally’*! mean he’a a Cuban,
and he has worked fur Castro, the CLA,
and the FELL, and he's a veteran ft
gangland-type ‘warfare. It's like finding
a West German high upin the CLA, and
then discovering that he has also worked
for the KGB and the Shah of fran. But
from what { hear, that’s a pretty com-
“mon background to have down here.
L There are Cubans all over Latin Amer.”
2 fea”
a>. Branch bering packing up the nevs-
“lips. “I’m parancid as hell abaut this
L plane,” he snys. "We're supported to get
~a'eall at tha hotel sround midnight. .
*. That ‘gives us aa hour to got through

 

“customs and_ get settled. 1 want to

v hustle away from these Buy: ed,
y sure we" re on time.” .

an

  

“A Greeting. from Rémulo

~ Rothchild and Inclan Wotton a huddte

‘of shady five-footers lurking Ja a dark
leormer beside the airport entrance,
~ They must be o Venezuelan tour group,
_. Rothchild thinks, waiting for n be resin
> flight out of the country, I'm not going
to get paranoid about-everythiny I see.
Bue the group stares at the passen-
. gers; their suits blend so well into the
shadows that all you sea are their mir-
vor sunglasses, They look like » dis-
“play of Foster Grants at the back of
ou unlighted drugstore. -
vo They stop looking onty = whan “the
$ Miami assistant state's attorneya and
cops; the same ones who have been
: bugging Braach oa the plane, go over
- aid give some of the men in the ahad.
ows warm, Latin’ embraces. ncla
+ thinks it is'a meeting betiveen the Mi-
«ami. law-enforcement contingent and
the Venezuelan ‘seeret “police. She
catehes up fn the line and.says. she has
recognized one of the people jn the po-
“lice “huddle ns Ricardo Morales, ths

 

 

 

“mysterious Cuban who Is supped to-

“be Branch's fallback. contact in. Cara-
ens, Branch is stunned. First he fs read-
““ing clips about Cubans and cops, and
the Cubans and cops start fingering
him on the airplane. Now Morales.
2 “Give me your papers. and follow
“tme!" a toice’ booms suddenly, It be-
“longs to a man in a turtleneck eweater
“wand leather jacket. A flusky moves next
to each reporter in the line, There is
. hothing to do but hand over the paar
* ports and follow,
-- Turtleneck and his awig herd the re
porters inte a special room at the back

   

 

< of the airport. He disappears irite an-

other oifice, leaving them alona with an
ol man seatel behind a desk, There
- Js furious typing coming from the adja-
tent reory {nto which Turtienerk has
disappeared, Mis. Gunkies keep ronning -

    
 

  

 

   
 

 

back and forth fiom one «cum ty the
other.

In about ten minutes, Turtlene-k roe
turns and hands each of the reporters a
citacién—in ripheate, Rothchild, trans-
lating for Branch, doesn't remember
the legal definition of the word estas
cidn, He does, however, recognize o
word farther down in the document
edroel. Caroet means jail The reporters
are being summoned to attend some
hind of inevting in a sinister-sounding
room, D-034, ino building somewhera
in Caracas at nine aim. the following
day. The letterhend belungs to DISIP,

Turtleneck keeps saying it is all roue
tine-—just sign the ectectun and -every-
boly can get a good night's sleep. While
- Rothchild steuggles to understand the
; fine print, Inclin tells him she thinks it
“might be a mistake to acknowledge the
* stimmons, It might conceivadl yy be cone
‘strued as an admission of something,

  
   

 

* and the reporters don’t know what it is

“for. Inclan decides to try an offensive

to gst information, She whips ott her.

“notebook as if to write a trafic ticket
ond sks Tartleneck what his name is.
He doesn’t answer. She repeats the
question and. finally he mumbles, “Ine
spector Romulo,” , a

“That's all there Is to it?”

“Yeah. Just Romulo.” .

“Who ordered yor to do this?”

“£ don’t know, [can’t say, It's just a
procedure.” s

“Why is this happening to ua?”

“It is so because it is so,”

Inclin writes that down,

Beanch, whose rudimentary knowl.
edge of Spanivh often led him to offend
the Cuban community ind Miami—whera
he would mean to say “iwhat a grand
wedding this is” and end up

“what tremendous tits you Sav:
getting a headache trying to keep up
“with the conversation. “Isn't there,

 

  

Somebody who speaks English here?’.
he keeps‘asking.
J] eThat’s alt‘ right,” says Rothchild.

°“The guy ian’t saying a damn thing 5
Spanish, either.” Inclan agrees. ~~

The reporters get nowhere... Police
. keep’ circling, and an evasive Rémulo
Keeps. cracking his knuckles, pacing
back and forth between rooms, thrust-

 

ing pens into the reporters’ hands hike -

‘g door-to-door calesmau pushing maga-
ie subscriptions, Inclin asks him if

Romulo says, “No, you won't. go to jail
-for that, and I don't care what you do.
Bly ordets were to hand you thit ei

  

is entirely.up to you"

Inclin decides te accept the summons
but not to sign it, based on Rémulo's
assertion that it ‘rémains in. force no
matté¢ what. Branch and Rothébild go
along after a brief huddle. Rémulo is
definitely peeved. Ha hands. each of
them a aummons in an envelope and
tells them to leave.

“1 don't understand how they picked
us out,” says Inclan ia the cab, “Es-
pecially you, John, You're not even
suming as 8 reporter. They couldn't

 

 

hove gotten us of our documents.” The

-one of those bombings

 
 

they will go to jail for not signing. -

and that I have ‘done. The rest.
.\ think that’s 2 good sign.”

or .oirical explanation fa that seme-

_ ene on the plane Upped off the Vere

auelans. Hat why?
Beanch thrashes around in his spy
world for answers, Nothing seems to
fit, ‘The three of then thewrize all the
weny to Une hotel, and they can only
aettio, like Alexamler Haig, on a sinis-
fer foree, Eranch io still sure that the
summens wil be Lfied a9 soon.as he
ean talk te his friendly contacts In
Veneruela, Rothchild keeps looking out
the window for a tail. .

 

  

A Visit to a Small Hotel

The taxi drops them of ut the Anauco
Hilten, where Inclin is staying. Branch
offers to carry Inclan's bags. The lobby,
amazingly, is filled with the same
DISIP lu.kers; they have managed to
move their whoie scene intact. They
ure feaning ayainst walls and sitting
en the couches, Branch lovks toward
the elevator in time to sew the Miami |
attorneys, and cops scurrying to get in-

_ side, frantically pushing buttons to get

the door to close. They are as jittery |
about seeing the reporters as the ro-
porters ate about seeing the Venezue-
Jan goons. And the most jittery of ‘all,
in the raiddle of the elevator, fs. Ricare
do Morales himself. Morales is staring

. ut the ceiling, trying to avcid eye con-
. tact, and Branch has the feeling that

Morales is seared, 1t is the first time
ha hes seen fear on the face of this
hardened veteran of Congo wars and
Castro plots and murders, Seeing

- Morales scared makes Branch seared,

He warns Inchin not to xo anywhere or

\. do anything—just to call him when he

arrives at his hotel, the Avila,

Hack in a taxi Branch js going
through another run of Cuban polities.
“E don’t know, John,” he says. “Maybe
Morales is behind ail this, but I can't

figure out why he's doing it, He sure

looked as if he's in trouble. He could
have been making some secret deal with
those cops. Something he knows about
in’ Miami.
Morales might not hnow that we were
on the Aight by accident. He. might
think we were tailing the cops.”

Rothchild is trying not to listen. The

“only, sure contact he thought Branch !
i «

had has suddealy turned into a poten-
tial enemy, Rothchild is petrified by
the thought that Branch has gotten in

“over his head. “I think we are in more

va. “Look behind you."?

risa tail The other
ear is right on their buniper as they
wind up the back streets of Caracas.
“They aren't even pretending not to Le
following,” Fothchild says. “1 don't

trouble,” he,

  
 

 

Branch, overwhelmed, keeps lookin:
at the car behind them. “You know,
he says with a smile, “this is the first
tima I've ever been tailed.” Mothchiht
feels as If he is being cranked through |
the roller of Graham Geeene's types |

. writer,

They reach the Hotet Avil, a Casae |
Dlanca-lype place at the top ef a hill, !
It veers deserted uatul Rethehild Iooks-

down from-a balcony near their room, ;
There are people pulling inte the drive. j
way ea araail Rising and they have i

 
14-0000

John,” Branch mutters. “f figured we'd be in for some
scrapes, but L never thought it would start before we
even got there.” Then he’s all business, “I've got to
give you a quick briefing on cur maia man while we
have the chance. We may nol, have as much ‘eisure

time as we expected,”

 

Branch pulls down their dianer trays and spreads out

3 pile of notes and news clippings. Then he pulls out a

police mug shot. “Meet Orlando Bosch,” ke says.
Rothchild stares incredulously at a porcine Cuban

man with a thin moustache and thick lipa “He looks ;

like the headmaster of a military school.”

. “I know,” Branch says, “but he’s a kiiter. He's also’

_ a pediatrician, This. whole thing’s like that—yin and
yang, Boston Strangler and Mad Hatter all mixed up.”

- | Branch eyes the mass of clippings and notes, wonder-

 

 

.upy to’ Letelier’as quick ‘as I cam ‘for now. The bagte:
. ground is simple: Bosch. has-been a political terrorist-—
- What they call an action man—ever since the late For- _
, ties in Cuba. He worked for Castro, then for the GLA,
and then he denounced thé C.I.A, He bas been an anti-
Castro outlaw since the mid-Sixties, always telling the
Miami Cubans not to trust the C.I-A. in theif war
against Castro, Now most of the hard-line Cubans bé-
_ Heve him Bosch is the patriarch of Cuban terrorism.”
Branch paises, -then ‘flips briskly through the clip-
piogs. “Bosch got arrested and-indicted pretty regular-

 

’ things on the stand, if they even showed up. In gen-
eral, Bosch had a threefold operation: firs, political
tervor against Castro sympathizers; second, ordinary

Do Jing where” te begin. “It would take all Haight to go -

. ly all through the Sixties. He usually got o%. The wit- _
C . nesses against him tended to sweat a Jot and forget

k

John Kotheh ‘a Hilda incian

: Miami harbor. He got ten y years, but he was paroled

-4 1972. Thaf brings us to his international period.” >

 

   

Branch picks up one particular clip and holds it it ‘in :

readiness. “Bosch went underground two years afte
his parole and the pace of Miami bombings escalated.
So did terrorist bombi
alt over’ the ‘world. Then, in 1974, important Cubans ~
_Started getting, mocked off ia Rangland-style murders, ~ -
“A lot ‘of groups, including Bosch'’s, tock eredit for

 

“them, The word was that C.I.A. stooges were being -

eliminated. Eosch became a phantom, Mysterious fig- °

ures with names like Ernesto would pop up in the Mi- ‘4

ami press to speak for him. Here's a Miami Nates clip

from this period. it's headlined ‘Bosch Declares War .

on Castro.” Hilda wrote it. She's the last American re-
porter to interview Bosch. Shortly after it came out,
Bosch slipped out of the country.” os

While Rothéhild-studies the clips, Branch continues, “|
“He got arrested in Venezuela about two years ago.

erinies like extortion from rich people and companies _ The Justice Department decided not to ask for his re- ~
to finance the political terror; third, tl kinds of turn to the United States despite oll he’s weated for.
wars and’ feuds with his térrorist rivals. Finally, Bosch ‘That’s weird. Then the Veneznelans turned him loose,
fled in 1968 for shelling a Polish freighter in and he left'with a bunch of Chilean bodyguards and a _
— = = s=iq- big pile of money. I heard all kinds of stories about
excl Rosch being down in Chile with the Pinochet, junta |
* there, bargaining. | Now the stories jump to February -
of last year, when Bosch got arrested in Casta Rica’.
_ right before Kissinger visited..The rumor iz that he
“wag plotting “to ssinate Kissinger. Bosch got out "
ot Costa Rica ‘sotnehow, and pretty soon there ¥ wag sa’!
‘secret nfeeting in the Dominican Republic of all the ~
major Cuban terrorist: groups, which the Domisicans ~
allowed, of course. There \ was a negotiated trace, and
the terrorists united unde? Bosch in an umbrella group
_ called CORU, supposediy with the support of several
ow in the last month there hai been the Letetier: |
urder,” Branch continues grimly. “The terrorists | .
showed that they were not sfraid to kill ia the United,
. States. right-in the capital. They have even thrésteaed /
. to kill one of the. FRE. agents én the Letelier case.
And his flanéée. The anonymous threats show they
“have collected a lot of inteltigence about the agent’s | *
life. The PULL. is upset. Then, Qwo weeks after Letelier
‘was killed, terrorists blew up a Cuban plane near Rar- >
_bados, killing seventy-three people. Castro blamed! the
CLA. and canceled the antr-skyjacking treaty. The :
¢ terrorists loved ite Castro and the Americans petting a

Roh Alias pee cata

 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

   

 

 

   

 

 
  

guess" Itis Hidal ona reporter for The Alani |
Weis, standing in the aisle, looking down al us She a
is 3 specialist on Latin terrorism in Miami. .
“Looks like it,” says Branch, shruy: . Se much for
the secret trip. Yet he is inclined to st Inchin, even |
thocgh he an! Pothchild hal met her only that day, -
while going through clips at the morgue of the Necrs.
~The three work out « way to m:ke contact in Caracas.
Brarch is embareacsed at being a Jitte reserved.
Inclan is candid, her face cheerful and open. .
“Unchin'leans over und whispers, “Listen, I think ‘you oa
‘should be careful. There's something strenge going on,
‘ht is is crawling with cops: and Prosecutors from,

    
 

   
   
        
     
    
 
    
 
   
   
   
  
   

 
  

and their necks sink down into their shoulders. There
are two young Latin imen in the back with neatly
Branch looks out the airplane’ trimmed beards, unisex hairdos and brightly colored
Orlando. Letelier lying in the middle of: Massachusetts shirts. There ard several men in the front who do not
Avenue, his legs blown off at the thigh, hia torso pul look like ordinary passengers. Rothchild decides there
y: Verized, detectives all around, On the curb nearby sat. might not 2 any ordinary passengers...
his passenger Ronni Moffitt, her eyes frozen, boiding | ‘What are they doing here?” Branch asks ‘bluntly.
her throat, The bomb in Letelier’s car had blown’a ‘Who knows?" says Inclan. “I know thesa guys from
stiver of metal through Roani Mofitt’s carotid artery, ~-Miami. They give me tips -sometimes. But now they
and-she was drowning in her own blood. Her husband “aren't giving me the time of day. I don't understand
gat nearby, suffering from shock, watching his wife them, so I'm going to act just like they are. I don’
die. She was twenty-five. ‘The killers were the kind of “think you should ket them jn on what you! up t
people who would machine-gun a whole crowd of people . either.” _” . :
in a public square just to hit their mark. They “Those cops are Cubans, aren’ ne they?” Branch asks,"
: . 1: Wouldn't care about the others. Ronni Moffitt could just | Inclin nods. Branch worries. Cubans on the Miami ~
° 3 easily have been half the people Branch knew in | police force are a strange Jot, he has heard. The cops ||
Washiagton. The next day Jerry Ford rede right over - want fo infiltrate Cuban terrorist grovpa and -drug- |
C he bloody spots in the rexd-on his way to a reception “running organizations, but sometimes it turns out that |
‘
+

    
  

there and then run like bandits.

 

    
   
 
   
  

  
 
  

   

 

    
       

Sie

  
 
 

for the presicent of Liberia; he never said a word the terforists and drug runners are infiltrating the
bout Washington's first gang!and-style political 2s. ~ : ve

sassination. Unwise to. taik about it, especially if the __ Branch and Rothehila exchange signs Ps wilder. |

‘force behind the murders is most likély the govern-- T Inclin drifts back to her seat. “Jesus Christ, . ‘
ent of : Chile. . The military junta there” overthrew : a0 .

tier Was ‘ambassador to the > United States under [AR ~
ude, then foreiga affairs minister, ‘titerior minister .
ud" defensé minister. ‘He had been jailed and tortured

thougands of Cubans were trained in its use. Branch :
an had ‘not been surprised when “evidence came out that?:
° Cuban exiles raight have pulled the Letélier job, hat
ie was ‘surprised by tips he received that they had also °F -~
ied hundreds of others on 2 big’ spree in the ‘Caribe’ £
bean. “God, there is something big going on, he had -
thought. And all his sources and his ixstiacts told him”
the answers were in Nenereels, of all places, ct 2 ce Sy .

ate Pat Akg Be ERS MO a na TOT OEE

  
74-0000

 

we

ee ene

ren Rae
phew re
AY i
* aG.2 tt Osere ev. eae. ipte, Gomes or

   

 

? ——
‘ PEPMOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN

son " secre? WSBLING CHRICE 1D PROMOTED
seunacerank [stare

   

Tt 810745 €1agea PASE €2=2 IN 266922

Pd
x

-. . oO TOR! 2920342 AFR 77 : CARA 32949"

 

 

 

ON THE DSE AND OGI.
3, INDEX PARSONS, FILE: 95~tee~eer 201-0285023. - . “4
E2+ IMPDET. :

 

~ - 7 ia
an :
; :
i
foo : . :
. £ 7 L. . . :
“oo al, secRET ooo a
eoe o @ « eo @ .
: e 2° ° > 38 @
aT a ° o . enee « «
we Hey ° . 2 « ee ef
_ ° os tw : oe eo ee @
- i weve eee a er es

 
 

AR 20!0 APPEARED

ESIUIRE .
MANCH 1977 é

HCE TST

¢

 

 

 

 

on the
“ trail of a 2 Washington bomber,

landed in Caracas and ran afoul of the
*:..: Venezuelan secret service, warring —
“Cuban terrorists, the Miami police, the State

Department, the C.LA., the F.B.I..
“and the most dangerous man alive —all
~ this, and their mothers didn’t know
-adamn thing about it * .-.:

 

- “Well, it’s true that all those people are down there,”
“but I don’t think they would be afte:

Rothchild does not look reassured. He does not like
the way Branch reels off the life histories of all the “
- C.LA, Cubans he has known, especially since the point -

-ig,always that the situation is-too complicated for |

 

 

“paranoid ‘they are,” says Branch.-“Our friends in
of ‘ Washington: used ‘to_be simple Journalists. and policy
: analysis, Now they are three-pay-ohone men. That

 

ead you. call them again, Then they ask you “for the
> inumber of Ganother pay hohe near yours, and they “

 

> ’¥Things like p pay phones and letter bombs and wheth-
er the Feds | ican be trusted. The last time I called they
told me we would be walkirig inte four nests of known
killers: the Cuban exiles in Venezuela, the Venezuelan
‘secret polica, the C.L. A. and the Chilean-secret police.”

 

 

ws that true?”

 

one point of danger.”

 

words. “Telf me,” Rothchild says gravely, “did you tell.

" your mother you were going to Venerue:a?” _- _

" Branch squirms at thé cruel question. He wants to ]
appear as knowledgeable and confident 2s possibie, be-

cause he has dragged Rothchild into this adventure on
leas than a day’s notice. “No, I didn’t teil her,” he.ad- - “f
mits. “It’s too complicated. But I think we'll only have | H

     
 
 

“When's the point of danger? :
-“Well, we may get into the prison and get our ane

 

 

swers,” Branch replies, “or we may get them from pto- 3
ple in the Venetuelan government Either way, we'll i
know who did the murders and who paid the killers _ 4

and what other murders they’ve done. That's what we

hope, anyway. If we get that informaticn, we'll be hot

atil we get rid of it We'll have to phone it out of
+ ~ ~

 
   

 

  

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘HodetOtTT-40217

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  

FOR 30200 ‘ . -
Tree 2.78 - pee eae 6c. --—29 98 39 @
. a , i fete Boye aa 3 9.
? om Feocg bd e a ? , > PD
-. oe » ao . eee>o G a
Ceaut sec olssaw By, oA os er eau ow * °° a
*REPROOECTION BY OTHER Than

  
 
 
 

ISSUING OF TICE 18 PROMIGITEO

   

ACTION UNIT

4iAs

ACTION &

       
 
  

 

    

T 810745 «= ELsees PAGE 21. en) IN 266922
. TOR:z92z342 APR 77 CARA 32949

SECRET 292¢@52 APR 77 STAFF 0

CITE bzo49 | PpoSTMIcHOTSER. a

 

  
   
 

 

| Tot DIRECTOR. Lal 21977

RYBAT WNINTEL REAM MICROFiLmeD -
O.. :

ON 28 APRIL 2977 KKDIET#5 REPORTED THAT _RECARDO

(SUBJECT OF 221°2285923), AKA

 

i.
“MORALES NAVAR
“EL MONO", IS RUMORED TG HAVE KILLED IN MIAMI A CUBAN

 

 

 

 

 

EXILE BY THE NAME GF ROSERTO PARSON S,

 

 

 

 

WE SAID AT T]MES PARSONS

 

 

HELPED GET PEOPLE OUT OF CUSA FOR A PRICE, PARSONS HAS Habe
BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976, THE EXACT REASON FOR :
HIS ALLEGED MURDER 1S UNKNOWN,

“2+. FOLLOWING ARE TRACES ON ROBERTO PARSONS? ACCORDING ad’
TO JNWAVE©1302, 16 FESRUARY 1968, AN AMCLEVE-i5 fe 4 4b

MIAM{ CONTACT was PROBALY IDENTICAL WITH, ROBERTO ARSONS

RAMIREZ, BORN 12 JULY 2930 IN “GUANTANAHO » PARSOKS WAS’ A

BKHERALD AGENT FROM 21965 THROUGH 1967 KHEN HE WAS TERMINATED

ON SQ NOVEMBER WITHOUT PREVUDICE, HE KAS USED IN EXFILTRATION

‘AND INFILTRATIGN OPERATIONS AND OCCASIONALLY REPORTED GRATUITOUSLY
, SECRET .

, 298
: [REcoRD COPY] ee?
3201. 779687 ard TFT S

 

 

 

é
i

 
