13-00000

 

   
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
 
    
   
 
   
      

must refer to Cuban Cqnoul Eusebio AZCUE, who left
Mexico for Cuba on permanent traneler on 15 November
1963, fowr days before the agsaselnation, AZCUE had.
been in Mexico far eighteen years and it was known te us -
as early ae September 1963 that AZC UE wes te be
weopiaced, His replacement did arrive in Septersber.

AZCUE was scheduled to leave {a October but did nat
loawe until 19 November.

Be ws Go ne knun whe nigh bore tod OSWALD tha oo
a AZCUS or any cther Cuban hail been or was to boreplaced, —-

Q but we speculate that Silvia DURAN ov some Soviet official
foe snigia have mentioned is tf COWALD complained sbout
bo  « ALCUB's akercation with him, :

oo, Sega te’ Welt Salve) me additional information oa OSWALD's
Io, ha PN ities in Mexite.-City. This part of the investigation —
ni. (1). wea hand ied bythe Federal Barean of Investigations a!
\ - I  "_.  jtirongh Ga win fscilities, AL of our searces heave been ,
i. <P 1 ceeted Coe fonder infopmasion but none has been :
4 bya dpyelopeds “Nelther pro- nor autl-CASTRO parsons or

Wo a : groups have produced what we regard as hard information,
\ Se “42, We can only guens why Silvia DURAN deseribed -

VAs _ OSWALD asa blemic, Perhaps hie complenion seemed
, Hght to her, compared with that of moat Latin Americans,
ak When she was arrested, she had act seen OSWALD for
A! about two months, but apparently she bad noted him ae .
. a blonde In her Gonaulay records. ; oh

 

ac a |
Deputy Director for Plana

piste button: | - | A ean q all

 

  
   

|

      

        
 
    
  
 
  

: Original & 2 - Addressee SO
- 1 -DDP

* b= C/CI ane i “AR

ATCICYREA SS

E 1 - C/WH/3. oa

\

~you38t 6 of PAGE. Va

a : SO - GORY. Ho # me
 

13-00000

       
      
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
     

 
 

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RY

 

. MICROFILM
SUBJECT vee

_ SRTAPFY
ACTION REQUIRED . REFERENCES

 

Please transmit the attached envelope to Fletcher M. KNIGHT only. |

7 7 Willard C, CURTIS

 

 

a.

Envelope oe a

 

_ Distribunon;:
3~ WH, w/att

 

CROSS REFERENCE TO

 

DISPATCH SYMBO1 AND NUMBER

 

DATE ;

       
    

25 October -

HQS FILE NUMBER

20 f—

HMMA~22390

+ CLASSIFICATION :

 

   

—

 
13-00000

- REPRODUCTION

  

anes
eee

MEMORANDUM FoR: Bee 5. Leo Rankis
SUBJECT: Inforrontion Developed by CIA on the

 
  

ae F Harvey COWALE in Mexice City desing
ier 23 to Getaber 3, 1963.

ae The second paragraph of your letter raises a question
with regard te reports on current agpecta of favestigation ta
Moxieo, or concerning Mezicen leade in the OSWALD case,
prialnorscds that paragraph eeems to refer to speculative

provided the White Honse by Jose L. LASAGA |

aerch eclniatcd with Setvedee DIAZ VERSON. CRA has
nothing to add te the detalied investigation of this mostter
conducted by the Federal Bureean of lavestigation, We
assume that the Gonmmmiesion is already in possession, a
wih be im the acar feature, sf the details of the outcome of
that investigation. :

3. GHA ie cooperating very closely with the FOL inthe
develogavent of ancther Mexican lend, as le probably abready
known to the Commission. Zin the course of this cooperation,
CIA develops originale § substantive material, Ty hes engeuis tanitions

  

Bra DMO/TSCO ; :

| - . | 0003573 . » aoe J ot 9
| ‘ : - COPY NO. 7 .

 

 
104-10050-10235

 

 

ee ne a ee ee,

S.A.Stern/aw/3-27-64

8s ur. Rankin ; a

& ft we EG PI FO er ds bow

 

 

< . OA Sent Beet panos

CrP

ur. Steyn March 27, 196%
Files ; ; a .
RELORATDUL .
m4 NET Bey oy
ie) 3 My. Rentcin REE y iN
bu Ju but
FROL 3: &. A. Ste.

SUBJECT: CIA ras oc PROMIBI | ED a

Today, Priday, March 27, 196%, I met ab CIA headquarters with
Me. Rocca to review the CIA file on Lec Hervey Oswold. Tne file

- contains those materials furnished to us previously ry ¢ CIA. In .

addition, 1t. contains the following materials:

a. Cable renorts from the CIA station in Mexico of Noveuber
22 ani 23, 1953 relating to photographs of a person who had visited
the Cuban and Goviet Erbassics in Moxico Clty during October and
Novenber.1953; and reports on these cables furnished on Koverber
23 by CIA to the Secret Service. These messaces are accurately
paycphrased in the attachments to the CIA memorandum of March 2h,
1054 (Conmss ton Docuzont 7674).

b. Cable of October 10 from CIA Mexico Chty ctation to CIA
headquarters reporting on Oswald contact at Soviet Embassy, and
October 10, 1963 message from CIA headquarters to Mexico City station
or background information on Oswald. These messages are accurately
xeported in the CIA memorandum of January 31, 1964.

I did not veview any materials later than Noverber 23, 1963.

Ife. Roces, also showed me the "printout" of the referonces to
Oswale Gocuments in the CiA electronic data storage systen. There

ms no iten liated which we have not been Given cither in ful. text
or paraphrased.

When I evidenced an interest in the CIA olectronic data
processing system, Mr. Rocca said that he would arrange a detailed
explanation at a future visit. . . -

©

 REPROCUL TION
PROWEITED

 

 

201- 02 972 v8

‘PAGE
GOPY HO. Ag 2

- = youss72
13-90000

 

Bel - eeeanoenan
, ’\pRowenrea

 

te report the detalis to the Commission concurrently with whet-
ever ig made available to the Commission by the FEY, -
4, The ioRewing veplies ave heyed to the numeration of
your letter of February 10:
k. We ave not in a position to supply copies af
tolegraew oot between the Soviet Embaselen in
Washington and Mexico City,

& Troustatlons of the two police interrogation _ oe,
reporta.of Syia DURAN ore being forwarded tathe — s
Comaiasion uedew separabe cover.

- Be From oli the evidence of Ihaud, wo dednee that

om 28 September 1963, There is no evidence that he
neh wom cammoh ecatentithese soseiiition mentioned,

    
   
 

3) woo at the Couraiate gt least once
Tints aud that this later visit was on
2S day on which the Cuban Censnl tales
Phoned the Soviet Coneulate about CSWALD'™ visa
problem, This may well have been 23 Segtenber, but

 

& We de net know wheter Coban Consulate

svchivee ceataieed information on OSWALD ante~
dating his Sepbembor-Octuber 1963 visit, From the
statements of Slivia DURAN, one could conchae that
she bed never heard of OSWALD untill he visited the -
Gonoulate ts late September 1963, The file on OSWALD *
which Silvia DURAN mentions is the one she esencd on
giws a? Chat time and which she looked yp again when i
ee ee en anmne Wes peblished ¢9 the proheile easaseia

af Prepident Kennedy,

, mend i

  

e0038Th
13-00000

 

 REPROUETIL

  

5, We do net think % would be unusual for Silvia
DURAN te tell OSWALD he could not have a Cuban
twaneit vise usiess he first got a Soviet visa, Such
frank statements are quite common in consular
practice, as far aa we knew,

6 We believe thet Silvia DURAN's statement that an
‘CSWALD haew ae ont i Cuba meant Hterally that, and cs
this would mean that no cee there could sponsor bic,
. ¥ouch for bim, or insure that he would not become o
peiolie chart. @n the other hewil, the remark of the
Soviet official would neem te imply that the Seviete had.
wo previeas record of OSWALD, at least in Mesiea, if %
_ fudeed the Soviet official was telling the troth.

Ts We believe that OSWALD both telephoned to the
Soviet Embassy or Consulate, and was interviewed by

officials there,
[7 og eure whet OSWALD meant by bis
1 athwiona.ca: o He wert to Mexice while he

‘en |__ Bai moving. bis s family from Now Orleans to Texas, and _
ne : Bik @ new Texas forwarding address

'\ 48 the process which Se pave first to the Cuban Cousulate,
‘thes misleld or forged, and Jinely recovered from Cuban
Conuuiste files vo he could pase it to the Soviet Consulate.
is could alse be that he was talking about his Mexico City
howl address which he might have momentarily forgotten
while af the Soviet Consulate,

39. The Cuban Consulate and Cubsa Exbaasy ta
Mexico Gity are separate offices located in separate
balldings that atamd on sijecent iste separated by a
Cyan official parking lot. The Cuban Consulates ic on
&teraer at Marques atl Zamora Strests asd the Embassy
is at 160 Marques Street. The Soviet Embassy and -

Consulate are both located in a large mansion with
connected outbuildings,

 

20. We surmise that the references in OSWALDIs
9 Nowamber letter tc a man whe hed since beer replaced |

 

003575

 
