13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
21 November 1997
FOR: D/EXDIR
JFK PROJECT
The following is in response to your request for a
statement “reaffirming” CSI's commitment to apply available
resources to complete the processing of records related to

the assassination of President Kennedy.

As Jeremy Gunn stated in his letter of 28 October to the

-EXDIR, the pace of reviewing JFK-related documents is

accelerating. He also stated that the JFK Board has .
established 1 September 1998 as the deadline for all:
agencies to finish the processing of records and transfer
them to the National Archives. :

In order to complete all the necessary tasks required by
the Board and meet the deadline, we will clearly need to :
increase the resources now dedicated to JFK. There are a
growing number of requests from the Board to review records
from both CIA and other agencies, to search files for
additional information, and to brief the Board and its
staff. At present, one staff officer and 13 part time
independent contractors are devoted to JFK. In addition, we
draw on a small CSI computer unit for support and share
overtime employees who perform indexing and document copying
for the Center.

In the absence of additional resources being provided
from elsewhere, CSI (or OIM) will need to shift resources
from other projects to JFK for all tasks to be done on time.
One option is to interrupt other declassification projects,
such as that’ on DI. finished intelligence on the Soviet ~
Union, and the Guatemala covert action, and assign reviewers
and others working on those projects to JFK. The moves
would need to happen in the next few weeks.

Another important consideration is that the
directorates, particularly the DO, will need to increase
their resources to keep pace with HRG. These resources are
required to coordinate declassification of records and to
prepare responses for requests from the Board for additional
information and files.

Whatever resource adjustments are made to bolster the
effort on JFK, there will still be an unpredictable factor
that could require a surge in additional resources later. .
This stems from the potentially large number of documents
from the FBI and other agencies containing CIA equities that
 

We fo ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NOTE FOR: Regina A. Genton
FROM: John F. Pereira
OFFICE: CSUHRG

DATE: 11]21/97 03:24:36 PM
SUBJECT: JFK Project

Per your request, attached is a statement regarding our commitment to take steps to complete the processing of records related to the
Bri

assassination of JFK. AFFIRM.DO

ce: q san Latelt

 

yes

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
the Board could ask us to review. There is a good chance
that such documents will surface near the September
deadline, which would leave little time to complete the
processing.
