74-00000

2/p,

v

OTHER AGENCY PERSONNEL. .

List other Agency personnel or former personnel,
who on the basis of your own personal-knowledge or
belief, had official or sacial contact with Subject.
Give brief information as to the period and nature of
such relationship for each.

 

 

 

 

 

a3.
Tonongiim Ne hoe dleans
Ldee® KOUTR 6K AP LUA We PC TA itei bk ewok s

 

 

OTHER U. S..- GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL -

List all other U. S. Government personnel who, on
the basis of vour own personal knowledge or belief, had
particularly close official or social contact with
Subject. Identify the Bureau, Department, Agency or
Office with which each such person was emplovea at the
time of the relationship and give brief information -
concerning the period and nature of such relationship
for each, °

Uebe 4

OTHER PERSONS

List all other persons who irrespective of nation-
ality, sex, or employment are -known or believed to have
had intimate or particularly close association with him

and brief information concerning the identity and occu-
‘pation of such persons, your knowledge of such persons,

and the period and nature of the relationship of such
person with Subject. Include also the names of all
American and foreign newspaper people with whom he is
known or believed to have had personal contact irre-
spective of the extent or closeness of their relation-
ship. Give names with brief information as to the period -

‘and nature of such relationship for each.

Ne kaculRed SF TNH.
Page 2 of 3

 
‘[rod-t0126-10254]

vee td

 

N

 

Subject: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee

1.
2.

NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE David Phillips
PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT

Were you ever personally acquainted with him?

Yes or No No - . If you were never personally
acquainted with him have you acquired anv information of
a personal nature concerning him through other persons?
Yes or No NC. . Give details including dates,

by months and vears as rest vou can recall, circumstances,
purpose and nature of any relationship vou mav have had
with him and provide al] data relating to his character
or personality, dllustrating briefly with anv stories or
other information acquired as a result of vour own 4
relationship with him or which might have been acquired
from others. .

x unue 4 NAGOE CecoicecT ee of MEETIVE
feng te THE Naber, Beith, SEutAnLe YEAKC Hé0~
Bor Daur MOT Sedge NBOT Wes |
SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF YOU, PROJECTS, OR OPERATIONS IN
WHICH YOU PARTICIPATED

On the basis of vour personal association with
Subject, either official or social, or, on the basis of
what you know or believe him to be knowledgeable of,
outline the nature and extent of information you believe
he could provide an opposition intelligence service as to
(a) your identity as an intelligence officer or emplovee,
(b) your personal background and experience including
places of assignments, and-(c) operations in which you
participated in some way. “(Crvptonyms should be employed

‘when known, The nature of the operations in any event

should be briefly but sufficiently described to lead to
their identification, with the dates or periods involved
and any comments or observations as to their success oT

 

failure.) hp Agph(cee
: oe
. Page 1 of 3 -
RETURN TO CIA
. @ackoround Use Only

Do Not Reproduce
74-0000

7,” HOSTILE INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS

Can you provide any information of any kind
tending to establish that Subject mav have been
sympathetic to hostile ideologies or had contact
with and was cooperating with a hostile intelligence

service. Yes or No We If yes, give

full details,

 

*This is an Outline onlv of information desired. If vou
either knew the Subject or have any information from other
sources on any of the points contained in the outline, a
separate memorandum is needed with each paragraph thereof
keyed to those in this outline. If vou neither knew the
Subject n nor have any information of the kind requested in
negative entries may be entered under all sections, and the
outlined returned after signing and dating. The signed and
dated outline will thus serve as a memorandum for the files.

Page 3 of 3
