Distribution
Orig &

.

1

he

RRR Be ee et

pho
C/PCS
C/EA
C/BUR
C/LA
C/NE
C/AF
C/SE
C/FR
c/CI
c/Cc

oes 0 Td

w/att.

C/CA (SOG) '

C/NIVD
C/DCD
SA/DO/O0

SECKET

 
13-00000

 

‘3. Because representatives of the House Select
Committee were apparently allowed unrestricted as well
as unsupervised access to CIA material here in Head-
quarters, and because a great quantity of information,
not all suitably sanitized, was turned over to the House
Select Committee, it must be assumed that such material
once out of the Agency's control has been compromised.
There is no way of knowing how many unauthorized persons
had access to CIA material, how many copies were made of
this material, how many or who received such material, etc.
The subsequent publication by the Village Voice on the
16th and 23rd of February 1976 of the first two sections
of the "Pike Committee Report"! indicates that security
within the House Select Committee left something to be
desired. :

 

George T. Kalaris

Attachments:
As stated

DDO/CI/0G/Russell Holmes/x1253/pm (25 Jan 77)

Distribution: .
Orig - Addressee w/atts
L-- C/CI w/o/atts
iL - CI/0G/Holmes

 
104-10428-10018} -

 

o% *

 

CI 059-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ch
; pecia ssistant to the Deputy Director

for Operations for External Oversight

FROM : George T. Kalaris
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT : Damage Assessment of Documents Passed to
the House Select Committee on Intelligence
(Pike Committee) .

REFERENCE _: Your: Memorandum ‘of 29 November 1976

1. Of the five documents attached to reference memoran-
dum, two do not concern CI Staff (see Tab A). The remaining
three documents (see Tab B) are as follows:

a. OIG Survey of the Office of Security, Annex II,
Project SGLATERAL/HGLINGUAL, 22 September 1975.

b. Memorandum for Mr. Colby, dated 21 May 1973;
subject: Potential Flap Activities. This memorandum
is an attachment to a Memorandum for Mr. John Dempsey,
dated 23 November 1976; subject: Damage Assessment
on Material Passed to HSC. ;

c. List of HSC [sic ’- CIA] Material Reviewed at
Headquarters (undated). .

2. None of these documents contains information per-
taining to presently active CI Staff operations; however,
with the exception of the mail intercept program covered in
detail. by the Rockefeller Commission in June 1975 and by the
Senate Select Committee in April 1976, there are references
to past CI activities which, if in the hands of unauthorized
persons, could be used by elements hostile to CIA to cause
further embarrassment to this Agency, its personnel, and its
foreign contacts, as well as playing into the hands of foreign
intelligence services and communist parties, thus weakening
further the effectiveness of the Agency's. clandestine service.
Specific comments are contained in a Damage Assessment Report
attached to each of the three documents under Tab B.

   

+ QO8EE

i

 
UPd

29 November 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiefs of All Divisions and Certain Staffs

™

 

 

 

 

FROM
Special. Assistant to the Deputy Director
of Operations for External Oversight
SUBJECT : Damage Assessment of Documents Passed to

the House Select Committee on Intelligence
(Pike Committee)

1. The DDCI has approved the creation of an Agency-
wide task force to conduct a damage assessment of classi-
fied documents and/or information which was furnished to

the now defunct House Select Committee on Intelligence (HSC). ©

A ‘copy of the Director of Security's memo, approved by the
DDCI, outlining the rationale for the damage assessment is
attached (Att. A). .

2. SA/DO/0 and CI Staff represented the Directorate
of Operation on the task force which is chaired by the
Office of Security. The procedure decided upon was to

-have the Review Staff Registry make copies for each

Directorate of the documents furnished to the HSC. SA/DO/O
received the DO copies and has reviewed them and designated
responsibility for the damage assessment to appropriate DO
components for each document. Addressees will be required
to complete a damage assessment report and furnish it to
SA/DO/O for transmittal to the task force. Damage assess-
ment reports are required only on those documents which

the component determines have caused damage to current,
on-going activities or personnel.

3. We have been instructed for the purpose of this
exercise, to consider every document provided to the HSC
as compromised and to examine each document primarily in
terms of damage to "current Agency sources and/or current
Agency projects or operations.” The Damage Assessment
Report wiil consist of four parts:

 

 

a. Identifying data on the document;

b. A general or summary statement relative to the
problems and damage resulting from the compromise of
the document;

c. Specific identification of the damaging state-
ments by page, paragraph and line - indicating the
nature of the damage; and

SEGRET E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012860

 

 
d. Action planned or taken to mitigate the damage
caused by’ the compromise of the document.

A suggested format for the Damage Assessment Report is
attached (Att. B).

4. In reviewing the documents provided by the Review
Staff Registry, SA/DO/O eliminated those of primary concern
to other Directorates; however, some documents originated
by other Directorates which appeared to have a bearing on
DO activities or personnel were assigned for assessment to
an appropriate DO component. Clearly, if the DO component
receiving a non-DO document does not consider it damaging
to its activities or personnel, it may be disregarded.

5. Some documents cut across component lines - the
receiving component should coordinate the Damage Assess-
ment Report.with other concerned components.

6. In some instances, we have only a list of docu-
ments provided to the HSC which they were to read in the
building. The component may need to locate the document

-in order to prepare a damage assessment report, if its -

subject suggests that such a report is appropriate.

7. If a component receives a document which it
believes is the primary responsibility of another compo-

nent, please return it to SA/DO/O indicating (if known)

the component which should be tasked with the damage
assessment.

~~

; 2
8. Each addressee is requested to designate an nm

officer to serve as a focal point for this activity in li/wth
their component. The designated officer should contact

Mr. Shepanek, ext. 1542, on my staff, as soon as possible,

to arrange for the transfer of documents and to resolve

any questions or problems concerning the damage assessment.

9. The Damage Assessment Reports and a memo from the
component listing documents reviewed but not requiring
Damage Assessment Repor.

10 January 1977.

 

 

 

Atts oF \
-0/SA/DO/0:NAShepanek: kaw (1542)

_ SECRET,

 

 
