ui

Ho. SEPRET

he believed that the Service would not permit CIA to interview
the subject, such an impression was merely due to the fact
that he did not have complete information at his disposal.

4, ur. [— mentioned above, indicated this date that
complete coordination has been effected with the various
Government Agencies interested in the subject, and now there
is a complete meeting of the midds with regard to the fact
that the CIA has primary interest in the subject for intelli-
gence purposes. Mr? mentioned that when Mr. Reichardt
contacted the Immigration people in Miami on Tuesday, 2 July
1959, the Immigration people were just about ready to release
subject from custody. It was pointed out by Mr. Reichardt,
however, that to publicize the fact that the subject had been
afforded asylum in the U.S. could possibly have had disastrous
results with regard to our relationship with Cuba. When this
fact was called to the attention of the Service, it was at that
point undoubtedly that General Swing was contacted, and he in
turn undoubtedly was in contact with the Internal Security Com-
mittee, which resulted in his decision to revoke the parole of
LANZ and place him in detention for the time being.

5. This matter was effectively handled by the Chief,
Personnel Security Division, over the past weekend efter
efforts to contact Messrs. Cotter and Pennington were unsuc-
cessful. Unfortunately, Mr. Massett, who was available at
home during the period in question, was not contacted. A
memorandum will be directed to the Physical Security Division tok
to assure that the identity of all professional members of this “
Staff, along with their home phone numbers, are available to the ol
Night Security Officer. . )

OS/AAS/WsC:es 8 July 1959

 

 
 

. ro

 

. aie
sranoann f FORM wo, 64 Srl 1

‘Office Memorandum . UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

2rd

File DATE: T July 1959
Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

LANZ, Pedro Diaz

1. Reference is made to the attached memorandum dated
6 July 1959, from the Chief, Personnel Security Division,
pertaining to certain activity which occurred over the past
weekend concerning the subject's detention by the I&NS.

2

2. On this date inquiry was made of a
WH Division, with regard to this matter. He declared that
everyone on a working level in the I&NS was most cooperative
with the Agency with regard to the subject. He indicated,
however, that it appeared that General Swing was taking a
fhard nosed" approach in view of an interest in the subject
@& the Committ ternal Security, headed by Senator
Eastland. Mr? indicated he felt it would not be
desirable to attempt to have the subject released from detention
until General Swing decides that such action is propitious.

3. On this same date inquiry was made of Mr. H. D. Nice,
TANS, with regard to this matter. He declared that there was
"nothing you or I could have done" to have precluded the :
situation that arose over the past weekend. He declared that

_ someone in this Agency had misinformed General Cabell to the -

effect that the Immigration Service was holding the subject

in detention and would not ‘permit CIA representatives to talk

to him. The fact of the matter according to Mr. Nice, was that
General Swing had ordered that the subject's parole be revoked
and he be placed in detention for three reasons. The first
being it was the subject's ome desire to be afforded protection;
secondly, it was a suggestion of the CIA representative in Miami,
Bernard Rei rat, (who had the opportunity to interview the.
subject); and thirdly, because General Swing became aware of

the fact that several different components of the U.S. Government
were evidencing a primary interest in the subject. It was made
clear to Mr. Nice that certainly General Cabell did not wilfully
attempt to deceive the Commissioner of Immigration and Netural-
ization Service, and if in fact he did give the impression that
