 

 

}
:
:

eee nmi

 

rs
B
Eas

we

- preventing Martin froa seei

SECK'T

LISTvTN DISPRIETPION

giliiaa Martin

che Caradian Press cerrespondent in itoscow, Jillian
Buckley, approacted our Sebassy inforsally in the aicdle of
Necezber an behalf of lian Martin, the ex-employee of NSA
who defected to the Soviet Unien in 1K0.

wceording te Buckley, “artin wishes to see als parents
for compassionate reasons ard warts to cnow if he uculd be
adaitied to Canada without fear of extradition to the United
States {f he were to arrange a rencez-vo.s with is parents in
Yancouver. “e ¢o net know whether Martin st/12 nas a united
States passport or whether he has beco2c a Jovist citizen. In
any overt Martin consisers tiaself inadzissible to tra United
States.

cuckley ast Nartin at the apartsent of Howard HKausch,
the Moscow correspomlent fcr MeGraw-Fill Puslications. In
addition ‘ertin later telephoned Iuckley to indic.te his interest
in finding cvt wether or not he could cone to Canada, cuckley
assumes, quite rizhtly I would think, that the xanrer in which
Martin has nacdu his request indiestes that his ‘Sussian hosts are
aware of his interest in petting out of the “ovi:t Union to see
his parentse

‘se have inforwd our Zabassy that it sheule take no
action to enccurage Muckley or Martin to velieve that a visa
would se srante?d if Martian were to make foraal application.
Since, however, “artin's interest in coming to Canaca is already
in a nevspaperwsants hands, we cannot rule oui the ;ossiollity
that "uckley aieLt erite abcut Hartin's interest, Such a story
would pretaoly lead to the need for an expression of the Canadian
Sovernscst's attitude. In aking recesmencitions on the kind ef
response that night made in the evert that a questien is put
to my Hfnister, it weuld te zost useful to know vwiat Martin's
status in law is so far as the United states is cancerned. If,
for exassic, your tovernrent could rot taxe legal action, the
Canalian authorities would ve 4: a position if this aatter caw
to public attention to say t..t they were not aware of any barrier
tis parents in the United States.
I should ce sost grateful if through your channels we could de
provided infcrually with an irdieation of Haurtin's status in law
in the Tnited states.

     

 

Buckley's only other comsent on dartin was that ba didn't
really kmoy what to aake of Martin. Hartin seexed outspoken in
dealing with the shortcomings of Life in the Soviet Umion. On the
other hand he spoxe with a slicht stamoer ard see...4 nervous.
Buckley's view for what it is vorth is that Nartin is not interested
in getting into trouble with the hussians er caing anything which
they might consider underhanced. I should emphasize that no uexvser
of the Canadian Sabassy has Lad any direct contact with Martin,

res

 
 

104-10219-10113

 

 

ssteur ey

nicbdiontio te inal & eine madlnis ve hata re i Mn malt cate eat sae AES kde eae or jg seni Aled ooh te Late A etna atts el en EA a Mae duane od afte 1 PAB de cna uments

PROCESSING &£CHON

r ARKES FOR BOER
8
Chief, kuropean Division

 

 

 

Chief of Station, Ottav2

 

KO'TWAY/SHACT
ACTee RE QURED - REFERENCES

1, The attachment was passed to us by SKACT/L. SHARE prefers
to make their inquiry tarough us in order to hold down the pusuibility
of a news leas regard:u> William Martin's potential trip to sHADL
The last thing the SHADDE want is for this item to hit the papers,
SWACT/ says the forei.2 sinister would prefer that no visit tsze
place. Until the laiter iearns nore definitively from LHUARP sauthori-
ties whether or not Kartin would be eubject to extradition he will
reply to questions - sxculd the -roposed visit be leaked - that he
has “no information," ‘YWeanwhile be would appreciate receiving LNHARP
opinion as to Martin's current status in law,

2. Plezse advise.

John ¥. BOCEKENBERRY
Attachment: 8/#

Distribution:
3 - Chief, BUR w/att h/w

 

 

CROSS SEFEREMCE TH ONSPATCH SY MRR, ENG ROWER GATE

OCC 4-12663 12 January 1968

| _ SerPrrinaT io

 

 

 

»

 

 
