 

3. tn the course of our conversation Hr. 1d me tha heed
had a cousin stil} living in Guba nesed who Is i
I jaiesaooe wit] Cuba and also @
walle Conmun ist. ry t a Communist
and he and his family la contact Ww =

SECaLE Oo toe sn

 

Director, Domestic Contact Service 28 December 1966
Attn.? Operational Support Staff

Chief, New Grlesns office

af

Possible opportun! ty (to Recrult Agent In Place In cuba |:

1, On Jues on Nec 66.4 recelved a.call from [|
former an allen bu

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we have FB! approval to contact dated 14 Apr 61. (Rr. $ the source of
five reports on Cuba and we, as wali as the Fel, have fi frequent contact
with him. .

2, He called on me primarily to tel] me that his mother had
arrived from Cubs and would be willing to talk to Mtns ¢

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

4, {ts msc peace of age, was ons of the
roup of Cuban lech recen' ymade a tour of Europe. A group
of these Cubans defected © t! paris, and this recotved wide
publicity In our newspapers. Als: , did not defect and
he r and retu the According to
ar recent he Is not. now
is work ng as retary
5. Hr. Id me that he had planned to meet
in Parts and that reed to meet him In Paris, but Ar
not heve the money to make the trip nor did he think that he ‘able

to obtain the necessary visa for the trip to Parts because of his status

  

6, that mise] hes traveled all over the
yortd with the has vis most of the Communt st
countries Including ne. s quite certain that the Cuban group wilt
make another tour and that he will be advised tn advance of the date and
itinera quite certain that he will be able te arrange @ meeting
with His rovided the group visits @ country. He
claims t lways been very close to Ml he considers
almost a3 a siste7. He feels quite certain that she wou willing to

help the US tf she were approached In the proper manner, and he feels that
the approach should be made through hia because of his relationship and
former closeness to her.

qo We says that he belleves nisl foes not at

SeCREL S"

 

 
 
 

‘tog t0110-10280

7 tea QmrTHOMAL FORM NO. 10 . ' ~ : : f
a MAY 1962 EDITION BOATS (CLUE THE
GSA GEN. REO. NO. 27 Coc < ira g
m 5

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT’ cide

Memorandum

 

.

2171GLL

. oO : Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS DATE: 11 January 1967

arr oo; Mr. Leland Bunn
FROM : Director, Domestic Contact Service RETURN TO GIA

(Chief, Services Division) 24 Background Use Only
a D
SUBJECT: - Possible Opportunity |to Recruit 0 Not Reproduce
== NO-380-66

Agent in Place in Cuba

 

1. The enclosed copy of_memorandum from our_New Orleans Office
concerning Subject’s cousin | e nett is living in
Cuba, and who. . he bélieves would be willing ¢o help the United States,
if approached in the proper manner, is forwarded as of possible interest.

 

 

2. A copy of the enclosure has also been forwarded to WH/C/CA.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed
to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2738.

\ ./
i) Aa .
, KWAY me VR
> B. FRANK YOUNG
ar

Enclosure: As stated above

SEGEET / SENSITIVE ice

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

 
74-0000

| SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service . HO~ 380-66
Attn.: Operational Support staff 2° 2 bec 66

leave Cuba because of the fact thet her fanlly Is there and that she would
not leave unless she could also get her fasliy out. He belleves that,
despite the risk involved, she would be willing to act as an agent in
place.

8. Hy relations with Hr. been very good, and | am
inclined to belleve what he says. this whole matter, of course,
would have to be evaluated by the Clandestine Services,

9. ons other matter | would Hike to mention In connec
tion with Ar that Is that he served for tuo and @ half months
with a group of Cuban filers In the Congo, as he holds a pliot’s license.
fe did not tell me and § did not ask who the sponsors of were or
what thele duties were. He did, however, mention a Colons a
fr strongly suspect, of course, that this was an cy

op! f so, the Cl ervices will already have @ good
des] of Information about Mr

10. 1 pass this on for whatever it Is worth and, If there Is say
further Information which | can provide, # shal? be glad to do so.

Lioyd A. Ray

LARay 399

 

cm
