 

13-000 o 7 Jeet Sa” "St GS bry

a, _betobi-1595 S14 39 Sen RIT TRAINING Wart rt ositotetasam pas?

        

December 4, 1996

Honorable anthony Lake
Assistant to The Pcesident tor
National Security Affairs

The White House .
Washington, D.C. 20500 : o

Gear Mr. Lake: oe ; ee

No other ethic is as well-established and as
essential to the success of the intelligence community as
the protection of intelligence sources and methods and the
Saleguaxding ef confidences. The effecriveness of the U.S.
Govermment’s 2ntelligence and counterintelligence programs
is signiticantly act ributable co the historical commitmenc
by the agencies which conduct these activities te these
principles. Disclocuxe of tha identities of sources has
had and may be expected ta have a profound effect upon the

- ability of the intelligence agencies to obtain the
confidential assistance of persons whose aaoperatson is
dependent upon assurance of cerntinuing cont: identialicy.
Similarly, the disclosure of information abour intelligence
sources and methods has caused and will predictably result
an the development of. counterziiéasures whith will atiect the.
ability of the Unated States to provide the President with
nimely and high-qualicy intelligence and derect and addzte<s
hogtile intelligence activities directed against the
United ‘States. .

 

Tae’ agencies represented by the National Counter ~
intelligence Policy Board unanimously share, and hereby
express, Cheixy concern that these fundamental principles could
be compromised by an inappropriate commitmenc to disclosure
by the Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) in
ies administration of the John FP. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act.of 1992 (the Act).

 

é&

 
 

[104-10334-10088

e JAN So 7 One EPH

i>
4

 

 
  

 

To: Barry Harrelson
Company: HRG

Phone: 30292 | ,

Fax: 703-243-8343 7

 

From} Te
Company: CIA - Ta

Phone: 703-874-3124. @-
Fax: ° 703-874-3208

Date: 23 January 1996
Pages including this 4 :
cover page:

| would appreciate your input ASAP.. | just spoke waft the National :
Counter-Intelligence Center and this letter will be presenicd to 1 Feb 1996. Based
on.a quick read, | think the letter is a good ica. ; 4
Linda, — a3. /o1/494.
Noke ~ a Sah
| Hee concuree Q woth Lindete Conus ;
supesterd Ohawedidiie be. eddlecQ_
dele. \ Qi fare “AS octane ( Linde Gr ca

use WAS bar DOT e oped pedleas )

 

‘

\
Op pruxiu cle lo 22% bee eres rahe wate |
duleuins ns Law doe. will ele Das i meee"

  
  
 

 

ea

ee at at

Qye ORECAST SSS rae CRG ROT TRAINING UNIT To guneteesesee ph

*

Jett 23 Se ats aad

 

Honorable Anthony Laks

vo date, the response by the intelligence agencies -
to Board requests for the release of documents has been Book,
unprecedented. The Federal Bureau of Investigacion (FBI), for 7
axamole, has released over 613,000 documents to the National”
Archives apd Records Administration and has requested that +.
disclosure be postponed with respect to portions of only 4.37
percent of those documents. The FBI has sought postponement
with respect to limiced portions of that modeat nutiber of *
records based upon expressed concern by foreign governments
which contributed or Originated the inlormation and reluctance
co reveal the identities of intelligence assets or intédiagence
sources ang methods. ch “hy

The Act. pexmits the postponement of Qisclogure upen
presentation of clear and convincing evidence that the threat
to the military defense, intelligence operations, or roreign
relataens of the United States posed by public disclosure
outwerghs the public interess in disclosure and that such
a@iselosure would reveal:

(A) an ititelligence agence whose identicy currently
requires protection; or

iB) an intelligence source oT method which is
susrently ubilized, or reasonably expected ta be
utilized, by the United States Government and which
bac not been officisliy disclosed, the disclosures of
which would anterfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities.

(See Act, Sections 6(2) (A,3))

Thea Act further permits the postponement of
@isclosure Wpon a showing, by clear and convincing evidence,

thac. public disclosure would compromise the existence Of 42.48.

undexstanding of confidentiality currently requiring pretection
berween a government agent and a cooperating individual or 3
foreign government, and public disciosure would be so harmatul
that ic outweighs the public interest. (See Act, Section 61(4))}

 

  

 
13-00000

e

 

WFC MMW19SS fata Bho RCL Tedining ustt we S1722874220a ip i

e JAE S3 SR ape scee

 

Honorable Anthony Lake

 

The Board's rejection of postponements proposed -. |
under these Sections of the Act dismisses the fact that the ee
intelligence agencies are uniquely qualified to asséss the harm
te intelligence operations which would resule from disclosure
of the identicies of intelligence assets or revelations about
intelligence sources and methods. & remains essential thac |
the U.S. gevernment starid by assurances, to persons and foreign -
governments thac information chay provide en the bacis of these
assurances will remain confidential for as long as is necessary
to protect those persons or govermmencs. It is similariy
essential that sources, methods, and techniques which. have
bad value in the past and could be expected to have valug. in
the future not be compromised. ‘fo requirs disclosure of the
identities of intelligence assets or revelation of sources . <
and mathods, includang the confidential cooperation of
foreign governments, would enexrvate U.S. intelligence and ve
counterintelligance programs and discourage the confidential
cooperation om which the successful conduct of effecrive
intelligence is dependant. The intelligence community believes
that. the harm whach would result from such disclosures would
demonstrably impair the national security of the United States
and that the clear and convincing evidence standard does acer
require that it divine, with absolure precision, the specific
manner in which that harm will arise.

The National Counterintelligenca Policy Beard
xespectfully requests, therefore, that thesé concerns be
broughs to the attenctzon of the Board and thar the position
of the intelligence conmunity with cespect to the disclosure
of intelligence assec identsties and intelligence souxces and
wethods be considered in any subsequent review of final
determinations by the Board.

Respectfully yours,

Nora Slatkin, “Chairperson
National.Counterincelligence
Policy Board

~ 3-

DRAYE LETTER YO ANTHONY LAKE, NATIONAL SECORTTY CouncrL

TOTAL Poe

 

 

 
