13-00000 .

SECRET

working together here, about three months ago we were running this one
Cuban intelligence agent in the country who was called back to Cuba. He
got in touch with your people, you spent about two months with him, de-
briefing him, training him, you have him back in Cuba now. He's actually
communicating with you by radio. If he returns this way we'll probably .
handle him again -~- it all depends on what the situation is. But we do have
that type of agreement and arrangement on this. In fact, he's not the first
one but I'd say he's the best one that's come along. Your people in turn

have come up with a couple of excellent -- one good defector and one excellent

-recruitment here in the last three weeks ~~ one's in Mexico and one you

brought in from Canada -- appear to be A-1 -- and their knowledge con-
cerning the Cuban intelligence headquarters set-up appears to be the best
that we've had since Castro moved in. It's an excellent break--

DCI Their intelligence organization is improving all the time,
isn't it?

“GUEST: For Latins it's amazing, Mr. McCone -- I've got to
take my hat off to them -- because no Latin American country has ever had
anything like this, rm tell you that. And one of these recent defectors has
told your people that the so-called general intelligence directorate that they
have there has five Soviet advisors -- has had for some time -- and that

they're either KGB or GRU, or both.

 

 
1 i

SEGKEY

DCL I must say this fellow Castro has put on an impressive
operation, hasn't he?

GUEST: If somebody had told me that an Latin American
country would have had the capability of establishing an intelligence organi-
zation with that sophistication and so on, I wouldn't have believed it three
years ago, five years ago.

~DCI And not only an intelligence organization, he's built a pretty

damn sophisticated military organization, you know -- and also he's gota

good internal security organization -- all these people that we put in there

get rolled up -- and to me it's amazing.
. been
GUEST: And one could say he's/just plain lucky, but I don't think
that's the answer. I think he-- .
DCI: I say to our people: how the hell is it he's got all the good
Cubans and we've got all the bad ones. (Laughter)
GUEST: Iknow.
The other subject I wanted to bring up was the nasty one of
Oswald. As far as the two agencies are concerned, no problems. We have

furnished you everything we've given the Commission, and we're continually

exchanging.
13-00000

SECRET

he was real and your people didn't, or vice versa, will you come to me?

GUEST: Definitely.

DCL Okay, fine. Because this case is so important I want to
have complete understanding on the thing.one way or the other. In other .
words, I don't want to accept him as bona fide unless it's agreed with ‘you,
and I don't want to reject him as a phony unless that's agreed too. I think
that there's enough professionalism in both organizations so that we ought
to come to an absolute agreement, or stay in absolute agreement on this.

GUEST: I think the conferences that we've had with your people
on this subject have probably been the best organized, the best handled, that
I've seen in many years in this business. There was a free exchange of
views and-- |

| DCL Weill that's the instructions I've given our fellows, and I

know that you've been wonderful in your cooperation on it.

GUEST: Well, it's working out fine all right, but I've got to
admit that it's frustrating -- do you agree?

DCL I should say so.

GUEST: The other area I want to mention is Cuba. Here at

headquarters we're working very closely with you, and very definitely at

Miami. The exchange is A-1. And I think a good illustration how well we're

 
13-00000

but many weeks have gone by since we have gone on record -- we have not
concluded, but we have gone on record very clearly with him that this man
may be a plant, and we have outlined the reasons for it, and we have told -
him that if so this is how we can be affected. We do have a large stake
ourselves in--

DCE Oh yes, we both have. Well, then, you feel there's no
basic difference of opinion between Mr. Hoover and your people and me
and our people--

GUEST: No.

DCI (Continuing): --that, one, we're skeptical, and two, we
haven't proven the case one way or another.

GUEST: That's it -- that's right.

DCI: And three, we're going to keep on working on it.

GUEST: Right. .

DCL Fine.

GUEST: Now whether time will be in our favor or in his, I don't
know. So far it's working out all right. Neither you nor we are suffering
any real handicap -- it's taken up manpower and so on -- but we've all got
our guards up -- I don't think anybody is going to be suckered into anything.

DCL All right. Fine. If that situation should change and if there

should be a divergence on this man's bona fide, where our people thought

 
13-90000

held up -- but the cases are peanuts - no real significance. The other leads
that he gave us -- many of them were known to us -- we've handled our
investigation, interviewed the people, put the pieces together -- but no case
of any real significance. I would say there are about four or five that we are
still working on that might blossom into something, but if we gauge it by the
others I'd say no.

| DCE In other words, what he in effect did was give you a very
considerable amount of information that you already knew and he knew you
knew it. . .

. GUEST: They have not suffered at all by what he's given us -
nothing. But what hit us in the beginning and is still affecting -- so many
people in our outfit that are not privy to the conferences and discussions
we've had with your people, they have not read your papers, and so on, and
we have people in our outfit that still believe that he's the best thing that came |
down the pike. We've left it that way. But among the doubters you'll still
find a couple of our officials who can't believe that the Soviets would send
one of their staff officers on a mission of this type -- they don't think that |
they would take such a risk. I will say that your people have put up an
excellent case to counter that -- the briefings that you've given us, the
evidence you've shown us, has impressed us very strongly.

DCI: I wonder why the President thinks that this fellow is bona fide.
13-00000

Soe.

GUEST: I don't know what the President may have told you on
that, but I--
DCE Well twice he's asked me -- he said, how about this fellow?

and I said, "Well, we're inclined to doubt him, but he hasn't broken so we

can't do anything other than build a case against him on a series of hypotheses. "

He said, "T think he's okay --I think he's given us a great deal of information."

The President said that to me twice. .

GUEST: Well, I'll be very frank with you -- let's just assume --
I'm not going to pull any punches -- let's assume that Mr. Hoover may have
talked to him.

DCL Does Mr. Hoover think he's bona fide?

) GUEST: I can't see how Mr. Hoover could believe that he's the
real thing in view of what we've been furnishing him -- the briefings, the
information, etc. In the beginning he may have -- he may have had his own
ideas -- because so much of his information was so impressive. But after
we had been briefed by you people at our conferences and so on, we in turn
briefed the ‘boss. . And he has not questioned your findings in any way whatso-

ever, but he has given us clear-cut instructions "stay on top of this thing. "
iS Wning

' He realizes it's so--

DCE That's what I've done to our fellows.

GUEST: In the beginning now he may have had his own ideas then,
13-00000 :
SECEET

19 May 1964 1055-1125 hours DCI's Office

DCI and 1 Guest

. DCI: Hello, Sam.

GUEST: How are you, sir?

DCI How are you?

GUEST: I'm just fine.

DCL I'm glad to see you.

GUEST: Glad to see you.

I have three or four matters I wanted t o discuss. with you.

No. 1, I wanted to give you this letter, which might create a little commotion
in the community -- I think it's (to) compromise material which the Soviets
already may have. Joe Carroll has told us that this is his preliminary
assessment of the situation, and we have to conclude that as far. as he's con-
cerned this is a very serious loss....... If true, the Russians know that we
have collected this knowledge concerning the location of their missile sites,
which are in the vicinity of their airfields, as I get it -- possessing this
information of course they're ina position to make a lot of changes and counter
our surveillance techniques, etc. .

DCI: Well I'd have to get that document and see, and I'll do this.

SECRET

 
 

104-10306-10023

a . . . we 139

Meeting between DCI and Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI
in DCI's office, 19 May 1964 - 1055-1125 hours.
-00000 -

SEOEET

I'm inclined to believe that it's serious but it may be for a different reason

than you describe.

GUEST: I don't know enough about this thing myself. I only wanted
to call it to your attention and--

DCI: I appreciate it very much.

GUEST (Continuing): --and tell you that the source is a GRU pene-
tration and it has given us some very good information.

DCI: I think the most serious part of this is where it came from -

how they got it, you know.

GUEST: I haven't talked to you for some weeks, so I think I owe
it to you to let you know where the two agencies stand on the matter of
relations. I'm giving you my own assessment on the thing -- I don't think

there's anybody in a better position to See both sides -- I get deeply involved

with your people and with mine. First of all, I think relations from the

working level on up for the last few months have been excellent. We have
had any number of operational problems that have been resolved very satis-
factorily -- and I don't think I'm saying this with any bias - I don't think
they've been any better. .

' There are about four areas where potential problems could
arise, where we're both deeply involved, we both have headaches, and we're

going to continue having them. I thought I'd just cover those lightly for you

a a
SEGHE!
13-00000_

SeGieT

so you're aware of them. First of all, there's our friend Msenko). We've
had any number of conferences with your people -- we've exchanged infor-
mation. We in the Bureau are very much concerned and recognize that he
could be a plant. Neither of us so far have come up with the answer. We're
still exchanging information and we're running down leads, and where and how
either of us is going to find the answer, I don't know, but the machinery we
have for exchanging information is working very satisfactorily -- there are

no questions there and no problems.

' DCL Well let me ask you two questions. This concerns me very
much, because so many people feel that LB senico) was bona fide and that we
had gotten a great intelligence asset and resource when he came over, with
the attendant publicity, which was very unusual. I ve had exceedingly prominent
and knowledgeable people on the Hill, for instance, talk to me about it, and
I've been loathe to even indicate doubt, because I was afraid that if it was a
plant for a very subtle purpose and doubt was indicated then it would destroy
the game both from their side (and ours). He's given you some 50 or 60 leads
or more. Were any of them new?

‘GUEST: Some were new. Summing it up, in the new leads - we've

run them down and interviewed the people, and the information furnished by

him has been substantiated by the interviews -- in other words, his story has
3

SEG:
