     
 
    
  

 

wee ee me meena epmAtitee:

 

. .. PAcE_3 oF oe
, UNCLASSIFIED ENCL. NO. wf
, 7-1 GGASSIFICATION FIELD MSG. NO.67_.
: FROM USIS Rome
i 7 i —
‘ te : aa A

    

earn
ee ‘4 we

Gordon. Ae Buing.
Country Public |
. Affairs Officer,

 

   

 

  

 

YW . : , o
“Attachments October 22 edition of magazine we Nuove

 
   
    

   

ere ee ee

 

UNCLASS IF IED

 

we
erence

 

 

yep eet oe pacE_2__or |...
ee 7 UNCLASS IF IED . ENCL, NO. La

CLASSIFICATION > FIELD MSG. Noet

   
   
 
 
  
   
 
    

   
   
  
  

autonomous region in which the basic laws of the United States are not:
espactads _ . .

. ‘put soine progress is being made even in the South, he Gays, adding .

_ that the freedom marches and the non-violent demonstrations have been ~

“. the principal reasons for this success; the churches and the synagogues
_. €an contribute to this progress by bringing to the attention of the —

. who le nation the injustice which. daily confront the American Negros ,

ios, D&e « King says that the recent ‘riots in ‘some major cities have’
‘undoubtedly: hurt the Negro causes At the same time, however, the <
disturbing upheavals in the clties of the North show many Northern
* Americans, according to Dre King, that their prejudices. are much moxe :
- deeply rooted than’ they thoughte

vat Dre King states that perhaps ‘we are already emerging fom the.
oon "darkest moment. which precedes the. dawn,"but adds thatthe ‘road to ;
— progress will not be simple or straight." He further states that the : in

 

Negro revolution will not.be daunted; that Negroes will work harder to a

  
  

overcome the obstaclese Negzoes ‘will make thelr. influence felt through
“s+ > @conomic boycotts, through their participation in’ the labor force;. and”
“ “thxough non-violent demonstrations, he addse :

The last paragraph of the ‘article is out of contexts In’ facts ook
‘thexe seems.to be some misprint, whether deliberate or inadvertent on:
the part of the magazine. According to Vie Nuove, Dre King sayst

“Negroes will choose violence for conducting their étmaggies 4 ‘in
the futures But their methods will underline the. general success of —
peaceful methods fox obtaining those social changes which produce
tangible impzovements." So, oo.

. . . Gommenht: The Department. or USIA may want to inform Dre King of the
publication of this article and point cut to him that Vie Nuove is owned
by the PCI and regularly used as a vehicle for anti-American _propagandae
If the decision is made to bring the-article to Dre King's attention, ©

' the Embassy would appreciate knowing his, reaction, particularly since
there is a good chance that the. article was obtained by Yie Nuova under .
false pretenses, or simply lifted out of another and publication and | os,

 

 

 

ot : . 2 «

bee . a

_ UNG NCLASSTF TED,

 
13-00000

 
 
 
  

lll oe
fe Gow oof,

3 Rinaseilas

 

 

Settimanale fondato da Palmiro Togliaiti.

ON. 42 - anno 21 7

Lotta
di classe

e riunificazione

‘politica

Interviste con
Veechietii
Lombardi

 
  

 

ed senna Lenicrin$

Sabato 24 ottobre 196-4

-L..100

 

oO
Sa
5
oe
—@D -
a
2)

Le decisioni di Mosca. per |’ importanza del-

- Tavvenimento. per il pésu che esso é chiiamato ad -

avere nelle prozpettive della vita sovietica e del
movimento operaio internazionale. nou potevano
nod suscitare interrogativi. non diventare argo-
mento di riflessione e di dibattito ben oltre le

-fronticre dell"Unione Sovietica. La procedura di

quelle -decisioni e il-modo contraddittorio, tale

da laseiare ancora vaste:zone d’ombra, col quale

sone state comunicate. heano certo determinato ;
ated ppnenoxpheniun, tse,

& che Malfanno della erisi del centro-sinistra e
del naufragio delle sue prospettive politiche im-
pedisce a certi democeratici.e a talunt socialist: di
guardare al di li dei voti delle prossime elezioni
municipali, anche quando ai tratta della prospet-
tiva mondiale. Con il risultato, erediamo. di non
veder chiaro né quello ¢he pud’accadere nel
mondo, né quello che accadra nel municipio.

A noi spetta tibadire, ‘anyKe in ques

   

OWI CB 73

te fons mmentalare ia

i sione. una police x che ei
ens BA pete =
 

ene

   
 
 
   
  
    
   
    

| oe. e . a . . . . po ner TyPe {nN THIS SPACE
| ore . - woassIe wD | ay gy WS
| SSAGE . . ' SUASSIFICATION -

“/ LS. INFORMATION SERVICE bie bey
rome Vos Rone ee | 904905.

Noe: 6
tO: _, USIA WASHINGTON - ; - (( MESBAGE NO.

Nery Nove. 9, 1964
DATE

SUBJECT: “Article ‘in Vie Nuove attributed to
‘ENGY USE

Dr. Martin Luther King : \\ * 4 id. 26°GR~
ae

Bae 7 . oe Ag
ce | JOINT T FUBASSY/USIS MESSAGE ,

 

Fo, The October 22 edition of Vie Nuoves an Ttalian weekly magazine

owned by the Italian Communist Party (PCI), carried an article. :
" attributed to Dre Martin Luther Kings The magazine, with a circulatio

- of 133,730, claims that Dre * King ‘wrote the article for its exclusive
publi cetions . .

   
 
 
   

 

ee The article ip entitled, "What We Negroes are ‘Asking of the 7
President," and opens with a full page shot of Dr» King talking to

- President Johnson. There is a short statement; written Py the magazine
: at the beginning of the article, which reads#

 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 

"The racial problem is one of the principal | subjects which
divides the United States in this presidential campalgne. This
“article by Martin Luther King, . which we are publishing as an
‘sexclusive, highlights the more dramatkc aspects of the subject .
“and gives voice to the demands which the colored population.
are placing before the entire nations It is a denunciation of
“ unequal rights which goes beyond the century old racial questions :
zThe statement, "You must respect my person’is a-demand ‘which
rahses: the problem of democracy, for everyone."

 

Dr. King's article bogins with his description of the disparity .

_ between; the great economic progress which the United States has made
“and ‘the slow (progress towards racial equality» .A major cause ‘of this a
lag, ish}s Die ktngs dd the attitude of the southern states towards.

_ the Federal Governments He says that these states are almost an

 

q oss. +) EGER TEX GORY — DG NOT RECEASE
San cet POL? WN WE raleigh ye : - .
av/IJNKellersin o UNGLASSIF TED

ye BP
1018101810 an ee ne RE

we . .
eT a 0 UPOLASS TEE D

    
   
   

ySAGE d : | BUASHIFIGATION
- UL S. INFORMATION SERVICE *
. noMr Se! usis: Rome : ea . : - toa 67
'O: 7 _ USIA SYASHINGTON - MESSAGE BO,
'eFr ‘ oo , > Hove 9, 1964

wasect: Article in Vie Nuove attributed to
Dr. Martin Luther King

   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
 

 

The October 22 edition of Vie Huoves an Italian weekly magazine‘!
owned by the Italian Communist Party (PCI), carried, an article .
.+ attributed to Drs Martin Luther Kings The magazine, with a circulation

  
  
 

vn of 1335730, claims that Dre King wrote the article for its exclusive ©
mS . ‘ publications * . . ; ; . ; : .y
woP/G - : a
TOP/UM i. The article is entitled, “that Wie Negroes are Asking of the -
TPS i | President," and opens with a full page shot of Dre King talking to

President Johnson. There is a short statement, written by the magazine a
- at the beginning of the article, which readst

‘="The racial problem is one of the principal subjects which ;
| divides the United States in this president{al campaign. This -°
Bs ‘ article by Martin Luther King, which we are publishing as an
: ie aloha exclusive, highlights the more dramatic aspects of the subject
and Ulves voice to the demands which the colored population
are placing before the entire natione It is a denun¢iation of
- unequal rights vhich gocs beyond the century old racial questions
ataThe statement, 'You must respect my person'{s a demand which
raises the problem of demo cracy for everyones" — . a

 

 

 

Dre King's article begins with his description of the disparity’
betwoen:the great, aconomls progress which the United States has’ mado ;
“and the slow (progres s towards racial equality. .A major cause of this oy
lagy! tehys! Di. Kings re: the attitude of the southern states towards ae

‘the Federal Governments He says that these states are almost an.

 

.

 

~~, 2. poguMMENT AS REFERRED 10 “Stabe

 

Chearahces POLs WHE raleigh an ; :
FISFBE oy/IKolLor sin - UNCLASSIFTED |

 
104-10433-10172

 

 
 

 

‘autonomous rogion in which the basic laws of the United States are not ~

‘the principal reasons for this succoss; the churches and the synagogues _ .
Gan contribute to this progress by bringing to the attention of the |

deeply rooted than they thoughte

"darkest ‘moment which precedes ‘the dawn,"but. adds that “the xoad to
progress will not be simple or straight." He further states that the

_the futures But thelt methods will underline the general success of |

ei

 

PAGE_2____OF

_UUCLASS LF IED. ENCL, NO.
CLASSIFICATION FIELD MSG. NO. G7 .

FROM___U

espectods

But come progress is ‘being mado avon in the South, che says, adding. -
that.the freedom marches and. the non-violent demonstrations have been ~

whole nation the injustice which, dally confront the American Negro. a

Dre King says that the recent riots in. some major cities have * ws
undoubtedly hurt the Negro causes At the sane time, howaver, the
disturbing upheavals in the cliles of the North. show many Northern a
Americans, according to Dr. King, that their prejudices. are much more <

7 Dre King states that perhaps we are already emerging ¥rom the -

Negro revolution will not-be daunted} that Negroes will work harder to
overcome the obstacless Negrads will make their, influence felt through:
economic boycotts, through their participation in the labor force, and
through non-violent demonstrations, he addse — :

The last paragraph 0 of the article is out of contexte in fact,
there seems to- be some misprint, whethor deliberate: ‘Or inadvertent, on.
the part of the magazinee According to Yie Nuoves Dre King sayst

"Negroes will choose violence for conducting their struggles ‘in :

peaceful methods for obtaining those social changes which produce
tangible improvements."

mee”

Comments The Department, or USIA may want to infom Dr. King of the
publication of this article and point out to him that Vie Iuove is owned

‘by the PCI and regularly used as a vehicle for anti~American propagandae

If the decision is made to bring the-article to Dre King's attentions

- the Embassy would appreciate knowing his. reaction, particularly since

there is a good chance that the article was obtained by Vie Nuova under

false pretenses, or simply Mifted out of another rad publication and . | i

© UNRGLASSTF TED.

 

   
 
   
  
  

 
       
   
 
   
 

 

ye . oo race
to UICLAGS IFIED ENGL, NO.
GLAS!IFICATION FIELD MSG. NO._67

. : . f

i ; RS
subsequently tyanslated into Italiane fe .
Gordon As Ewing: a

Country Public 2. -
_ Affaire Officer,» ©.

:
ns
N:

eats Attachments October 22 edition of magazine Yie Nuoyo-

a ee ne er dae
ae.

 

a ome

eh,

Bo

yer,
Sot Ae nee petra meet FES aw ST
cate foe
. : ,

berm,
\
;

ar Aen
Fi
'

=
ass
te

+ Seen tie vom

Ma de

2

’

. *UNGLASS IF TED

 

oe

Bo ee ee ee ; .
oF

*

Py

rrom___USIS Rome

 

. : . ‘ ; . .! oa a
GF. f. EAN
Gab 7

   
  
