13-06000

 

 

a SECRET

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)

“ft
a
i
i
i
i

“DPOB: 16 February 1940, Havana, Cuba,

Subject is apparently identifiable with Julian BUZNEDO
Castellanos, who arrived in the US on 10 November 1960 and
enlisted in Brigade 2506. He was a civilian pilot in Cuba
and served on the invasion craft BARBARA J. BUZNEDO was
captured and released in the prisoner exchange. (There is no
indication he was ever employed by the Agency, other than
his participation in the invasion.

 

OTe T
 

meargy tees

pe . ve 7 - noe . y . — . i
o a SAE ‘

Gordon Duane NOVEL (Enclosure 19 of reference memorandum):

>

«. There is no record of Subject in WH/Cuban Operation |
. Group files or JMWAVE files. JMWAVE cited the article
on NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMI HERALD on 26 April
1967, which is available in CI/R & A, and is in the process
of conducting an exhaustive search for traces on the cover
organizations NOVEL claimed to operate for the Agency in
New Orleans. : Lo

 

 

LA ho. Te ee ee cee mete en te melee ee egal ht! MALIN it SEAM RASS Ur ee
13-00000

 

 

_ capacity. -

  

Loree wes : :

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)

Subject is possibly identifiable with, Carlos QUIROGA,
a former student at Lousiana State University who was a
candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program, This
involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would
return to Cuba as agents in place. JMWAVE traces reflect
an individual of the same name was an electrical engineer,
residing at 3134 Derby Place, New Orleans, in December 1964.
Subject reportedly had homosexual tendencies, low morals,
and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter
and made anti-US statements. There is no indication that a,
Carlos QUIROGA was ever employed by the Agency in any

:

 
 

 

wo: cot . , . APL? (~
ee OS
Emilio SANTANA (paragraph 7 C of reference memorandum) —

DPOB: 7 Sept 1935, Cardenas, Matanzas, Cuba
(also reported 7 Sept 1936 and'7 Sept 1937

1. Subject is probably identifiable with Emilio SANTANA.
Galindo, who was recruited by JMWAVE in December 1960 as a
guide for an infiltration team, SANTANA was paid a monthly
salary under provisions of his MOC until he was terminated
on 15 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team
became inoperable due to occupation of the target area by _
Soviet technicians. Another compelling reason for SANTANA's
termination stemmed from his untrttthful reporting concerning
' certain aspects of the team operations. '

. : 2, In an attempt to establish positive identification,
ran JMWAVE obtained a report frdm the Dade County (Miami)

- Sheriff's office that an Emilio SANTANA (no matronymic) .
born 6 July 1936 in Cuba, was declared a fugitive from
Louisiana on a federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet
132287F, based on two counts of burglery in Louisiana,

He was arrested and booked by the Dade County Sheriff's
office on 2 February 1966 and was presumably sent back to
Louisiana. At the time of his arrest SANTANA gave his
address as 851 SW 4th. Street, Miami, which is the same_
address _Shown on an old immigration fixvm when he was

Liv : - Headquarters: files indicate SANTANA- ise

 

 
  
  
  

ed* is-wife who “apparently still: resides. ato
’ : the old Miami address... Since SANTANA'S. date of birth varies —
. on various documents in his 201 file, the variation in birth
: date on his arrest sheet is not conclusive. The fact he _
did give his former address to the arresting officers
indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 immigration
a form includes a photograph which could be obtained from
foe 7 ' JMWAVE for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.
\. ’ : .
|

3. Although JMWAVE has had no contact with SANTANA
since his termination, there is a note in Station files
dated 23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as his
employer on an augd credit application,

 

 

 
13:00000 a

 

 

CSET

Edward S. BUTLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of reference memorandum)

’ .
: In January 1965 Subject's organization (uNca) , sponsored
the New Orleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after
her arrival in the US. INCA had a particular interest in
Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contan-
ing Miss CASTRO's declarations when she was surfaced in
Mexico. A JMWAVE asset, who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,
handled the planning and arrangements for the New Orleans
visit with INCA officials. The only subsequent contact
between the JMWAVE asset and Edward BUTLER occurred when
- BUTLER was recently in Miami promoting the INCA film on ‘
"CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA". See Attachment 2 for a summary
of the INCA organization.

- :

 

 

 

 

i
{

 

 
 

 

* , Sibh ET
Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum)

« DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

1. Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillait, a
member of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion
and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner
exchange.

2, FOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents
during his early life and returned to the US to attend
scha@ll in his late teens. He attended the Lenox School,
Lenox, Massachusetts, 1948-49; Louisiana State University
1949-51. After his graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba
and married Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13 ,
“ August 1933, Brussels, Belgiim, FOWLER was President of
the North American Sugar Company , avana, from 1951 until
he returned to the US in November’ 1960 and enlisted in
Brigade 2506. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark
‘FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,
-and former US Ambassador William D, PAULEY, as references..
Following his release. from prison FOWLER worked for the
‘BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Palm Beach, Florida, where his
father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm
Beach, Florida, until at least late 1964. He apparently ;

ip.d ring. his years” of residence. in...

   
 
 

 

  

: . parole - “status in Novembér 1964 ‘while- “he: was “still em
in W. Palm Beach. He apparently returned to Louisiana
sometime after that date. FOWLER's mother lives in Coving- |
ton, Louisiana, and he has a sister who is married to Fort
PIPES, Jr., member of a prominent New Orleans family.

frqe toe

 

 

 

 
 

  
 
 

C0 MENT Or

Attachment ‘1

. s .
Sergio Vicente: ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 of reference -memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

1. Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first
arrived in the U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-
CIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior
to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position
until the FRD ceased to function. The FRD was the predecessor
ot the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and
supported by the Agency. The organization was used asa = '
front tor recruitment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion.
During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters
in Miami through a post office box in Coral Gables, and
re portedly maintained extensive relations with the New
Orleans FBI and Immigration offices. Two of his regular
FBI contacts were a Mr. De Bruce and the deceased Guy |
Banister. ,

2. ARCACHA was also one of the ‘promoters of the
FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which was incorporated
in New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organization was
ostensibly created by several New Orleans business and. .
political figures, including ‘the’ deceased: “former “FBI agent, >
Guy Banister, to collect money to-aid Cubans. in their . -

 £ight.against Communism, According to the articles of

incorporation, these donations would also be used to support
the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,
less a percentage to be retained by the FDC. An investi-
gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded
that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain
of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of
ARCACHA. The investigation produced no evidence that any
individual donations were ever solicited or received and.
recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the
books of the.New,@rleans Exporters Company be investigated
for evidence of rsonal gain and possible evidence of .
federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New
Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F. Tunague, and the Chief
of New Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were
officials of the FDC. Approximately one month after the
FDC was created, strong criticism from some prominent Cubans

“put the organization out of business.

3. Information in an immigration card reflects that
ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venezuela at an unspecified
date, His address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Caracas,
and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

New Orleans. Passport No. 00433.

 

ee a

 

 

 
 

Xs
e
eed
&e
v2

SECRET/RYBAT
. - . ft
. * WH/COG 67-194 “
MEMORANDUM FOR: ADDP .
C/CI/R & A (Mr. Rocca) . Lo
SUBJECT : Garrison and The Kennedy ra
REFERENCE : CI/R & A Memorandum Dated .26 Apri 1967

’

1. In response to reference memprandun, WH/Cuban Operations

Group has endeavered to provide all available information on
individuals and organizations requeSted n paragraphs 5, 6 and

. 7 of -reference. Attachment 1 contains’ background information
and biographic.data on individuals obfained from WH/COG and
JNWAVE files. Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa-—
tion and Agency association with th organizations listed in
paragraph 5 of reference.

 

 

Attachment 1 :
Bio data on ifdividuals :

Attachment 2 . :
‘Backgroungy summary of FRD, DRE, INCA

¢

Z
Pa
7

. a , I
“Remreait L, Lafees. =; Se — Ove a9

HOG) >

ee oo

 

 

 
 

 

4, Background information on the FDC and ARCACHA's -
connection with the organization was forwarded to the FBI .
in CSCI-3/764, 414, dated 30 March 1961. Qther sources of .
the above summary of information on ARCACHA are; DBF-66955,-
13 January 1961; DBF-91759, 11 October 1961; DBF~92355, 18
October 1961; CSCI~316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 22 February
1961. A

 

 

 

 

 
 

Le ar oe ~

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference memorandum) .
’

Carlos BRINGUER is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER
Esposito, a former member of Brigade 2506 ’who was captured
during the invasion. The personal history statement in-
Juan BRINGUER's 201 file states his brother Carlos, a lawyer

in Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment ;
in 1960. ; 7 :

 

 
