 

OLC 79-0113/8
5 February 1979

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence ©
VIA : Legislative Counsel

FROM : §S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations References
to Overseas CIA Stations :

 

1. Action Requested: That you approve one of the options
set forth in paragraph I. :

2. Background: CIA's participation in the investigation of
President Kennedy's assassination was limited by the pattern of Lee ~ .
Harvey Oswald's life. He served in the Marine Corps in Japan, .
although he did not come to the attention of the CIA at that time.
He travelled to the Soviet Union in 1959, returning to the United
States in 1962.) He did not come to CIA's attention until his
defection was reported by the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. He
travelled to Mexico City in late September 1963, returning to.
the United States in early October after a five-day stay. CIA
detected his presence and reported it.

 

3. False allegations by a disaffected CIA employee claiming
CIA-Oswald ties in dapan consumed some of the Committee's time and
attention. They discredited his testimony, but in the process of
discussing it, ney talk about the things he said, including his

ti in Tokyq le have never confirmed the existence of a 3
We would endeavor to have the Committee sanitize an
downplay this section of its report simply because of the discrediting
of the witness' testimony, if thisaunsuccessful, unclassified publication
may become an issue. :

4. Oswald's entry to the Soviet Union, with a visa given by the

Soviet Consul in Helsinki, leads to HSCA discussion in its report of
existence of the and the file held on the

(4-\

 

 

spl SECRET
Yroa-t0749-10002]

. ULE RECORD Chi’;

 

 
 

OLC 79-0113/9
5 February 1979

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Dick Rininger, OGC
Bill -Sturbitts, LA/DDO
Jack Sullivan, OS
Russ Holmes

FROM : S$. De Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA

SUBJECT - oa Draft Staff Study

 

1. Attached is a draft staff study on the question of mentioning
overseas Stations, with the emphasis on Mexico.

2. It is requested that you get an official position on this with
‘the understanding that a final version, incorporating your comments,,
will be distributed for coordination and Final comment prior to
submission to the DDCI and DCI.

 

3. Your response by Wednesday afternoon would be appreciated.

S. D. Breckinridge

 

Attachment : ~S

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENT > , nore napia@DUCE
RETURN TO ClA

 

all 6G

 
74-0000

‘expected to contest our objections to any references to the Station =

 

Consul, who was KGB. We believe this can be remedied by sanitization;
if not, it could become an issue if HSCA insists on publication.

5. Oswald's visit to Mexico City and other developments there
have produced detailed discussion of certain events in HSCA drafts.
One of those intended by the Committee for unclassified publication
has to do with a man who made allegations that Oswald received money
in the Cuban Consulate for the purpose of killing the President.
This considers the investigation of the allegation, with criticisms
of the performance of the Agency. It involves detailed reference to
the Station in Mexico. The other section intended for unclassified
publication has to do with a man who flew to Cuba from Mexico City
a few days after the assassination of President Kennedy. Again, there
is extensive reference to the role of the Station. The Committee's
charter includes evaluation of the intelligence agencies, and it
would argue it must publish.

6. The present issue is whether there can be some euphemism
for describing CIA personnel in Mexico City for the investigation,
without specifying that they were assigned there on a permanent basis,
or whether we simply oppose any references. The Committee can be

or CIA's presence there for the investigation because the story
cannot be told otherwise. To omit such references would mean
that these limited sections would probably have to be deleted,
or so eniasculated. as to be rendered sterile and incomprehensible.

7. The Warren Commission report has only limited references to
CIA, crediting it with reporting Oswald's visit to Mexico City prior
to the. assassination, and obtaining by undisclosed means a photograph
of an unidentified man. Other information from CIA is not specified in
the report, while the press has accurately described those matters,
the Agency has never officially confirmed it. .

8. The Church Committee report, in Book V¥, makes 28 separate
references to the Mexico Station (not Mexico City Station), or its
Chief, or its communications with Washington. While this is not @
publication by CIA, it has the quality of official confirmation by
virtue of being contained in a Senate report. The Agency did not
contest this at the time. Further, the Agency subsequently approved
references to the Mexico City Station and its Chief, in the book
published by David Phillips, possibly because already public in the
Senate report. ;

 

 

 
74-0000

weet +

 

9. Staff Discussion: Since the Church Conmittee investigation
and the approval of the references in the Phillips book, there has been
an increase in the sensitivity of the Mexico City Station. The Station
has been the subject of a running campaign in the. local press. Domestic
political controversy has focused attention on the Embassy and the
Station, with allegations of bribery and other misdeeds. The interest
of the United States 4w'-Mexico gas and petroleum has heightened
sensitivity concerning anything that may affect the political atmosphere.
President Carter will be visiting in Mexico soon. The President himself
has instructed the Station in Tes that there can be no references

 

to the{Mexico City Station in, its prosecution of the ITT matter. While
the President can instruct!a ember of the Executive Branch on this matter,
a formal position from him on this subject, directed to the Congress, does
not have the same weight. :

10. The agreement between you and. Chairman Stokes provides. that
when we receive an official notice of the intent to publish, you have
five days in which to respond to him if you object. At present, we have
this information on an informal basis and the five-day period does not
apply. Therefore, this is posed to you in anticipation of a disagreement
if discussions do not produce a way around the issue.

 

1. Our options are:

a. To seek some compromise by discussions;

 

b. “Accept some euphemism that suggests the presence
in Mexico of CIA people in 1964 for purposes of the investigation
without specifying that they were assigned there permanently;

c. Catagorically oppose publication of these two sections.
12. Action Requested: We intend to pursue Option a, but prior

to doing so, your decision on Options b and c will be necessary to
shape how we proceed.

 

S. D. Breckinridge

upd

 
