   
    

‘Atta chnent | Ko. 2.

  

sone. BEHRINEN Activities and Accoopltshaents

1. Regular once=per-—nonth demonstrations at a public ‘park in| :
okyO, consisting < of anti~Anerican Speeches aad tellowed by street :
arches + oer eof ve : ote

 
   
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
    
     

     

gs an ald night cv “teach-in" w ith, amEINN activist leaders, ».
elong with special guest, U. S. pacifist Carl Oglesby (Chairman of. ;
the ‘Students. for a Denocratic Society.) rad ;

 

3. =A fail page advertisement in the. New York Tines ae Novenber
1965), followed by another full page ad in the Washington Pest: oe
G ‘Apts 19673, appealing to Americans | to stop the war ta Vietnan. Q

ar we A ‘Moet in Conference of x0 Nations for Peace in Vietnam," in

held in Tokyo in August 1966, and attended by EEHEIREN activists and

seven U.S. pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), and observers
ron France, ‘England, Canada, the USSR, Fakistan, and Mongolia. :

a ’ A mass meeting dn Tokyo ‘in October 1966, guest speakers of ©
whieh were Preach pacifisis, Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir .

a 6. ‘Nationwide tours ‘of Japan for ‘Lectures and peace rail ies for
such anti-Vietnen war pacifists as Professor Howard Zinn and the late

of the United States, Claude »_Bourdet of France, and Thich
Nhat Eanh of South Vietnam. Be. ees

 
   
 
 

pongored: by oo

7. A mass meeting ‘tn Toxyo ‘an January 1967,
ad acifist doan Baez...
painless

saan and featuring U.S. folk singer

 

 

8. A continuing program of direct distribution of panpkiets: to!
‘Oe S. troops stationed in Japan, and those coming to Japan on. ‘warships, 2
cand for rest or hosp talization from Vietnaz ; fo

2.” : “participation ‘by ‘two BEBEIREN setivist leaders (Kyoto
' University professor KUWABARA Takeo and International House staffer

: TSURUUT Yoshikyuss taking advantage of a trip to the U.S..to attend ©
g non-politicas Japan-Anerica Gongress on Cultural Probiensy in. me
“anti-Vietnam war Bpecch rallies and detoastrations at Dartmouth -
University in early Say. 1967, followed by an unsuccessful attempt. :
+o invite Cassius Clay to visit Japan on “behalf of ‘BEEEIREN

 
  

   

 

 

 

      

Continuing efforts to bring to ‘Japan for a nat somuide

 
14-00000

 
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
 

   
   

our on behalf of BESSTASH, § Soviet: poet Yevgent Yovtushenke,
ort that has not yet reached fruition but “Is s yen Bes —

37." “participation in the Stockholn July 1967 “World Cenfercree 7
Yietnart,” by sending two RENEIREN & activist leaders as delegates.
ay . aa
12." Cooperation with the U.S. Quakers,’ pacifists, and Earle
ynolds in sending the yacht “Phoenix” with medical aid, first to -
R\ jphong, then on a second trip in the Fall of 1967, secking but
jiing to find landée24. to deliver medical. nid to eithor North or =
pout Vietuam, = es, ; ae

13, ‘ Attenptea, but failed ‘due ‘to ‘anebiity ¢ to , obtain U.S. visa,
: to send a HENEIREN activist leader (HUTO ichiyo} to the U.S. ta oe
: participate: in the 21 October 1987 anti< Aetuam War ‘denoastrations. - 2

   
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
   
 

  

ee gag i ‘Curxently carrying out A “fund raising canpaiga to send an
aid ship to. North Vietnam. In this, and other activities, DEHEIREN

leaders are maintaining ever closer liaison contact with their .

counterparts abroad, such as the French “Cotiite* vegtoe National oe

-in an effort to generate public siipport for this aid s :

.waising campaign, BEMGIREN succeeded in issuing a public Pappeal,

under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo Governor i imbehicctisis ana

. Yokohama Mayor ASURATA EChioy as + wor ag the usual uteliectuals | nt

supporting BEHE eae s : at

 
  

     

: 8. ‘ta October ‘1987, 1 BEERIREN solicited appaoval ‘to ‘hold antie
Vietuan Wax demonstrations in front of the U.9. Embassy in Tokyo,
expecting to be denied and then intending te make ‘this denial a court |
test case. Znstead, BEHSIREN was given this’ permission, and conducted
two orderly and well-publicized denonstrations in ‘front of the American
Eabassy, garnering n larger public turn out of participants than in.
any _Pravions ‘BBHEIREN-sponsored denonstration. ae pe

216. Assisted ‘and abetted the defection to.the USSR of four. .
American sailors from the U.S. Navy carrier Intrepid. Following this -
success, DEMEIREN's most effective activity to date, BSEEINEN leaders
are organizing 2 permanent “underground railway" of ” Japanese inteli— oe
ectusls who will volunteer their hones as possible “way stops" for -
hiding future U.S. military « Seserters that BENSIREN now Ropes to

 

 
 
    
    

other dotatis, see 2 Tokyo intelligence reporting:
11547, SL Kay 1966 . ot
32046, 14 Cetobsr 1966
12696, 16 Ney 1967.
i2851, 5 July 1967. |:
13681, & September 1967
L3i54, 27 September 1967
22 | FFTPL3I03, 22 November 1967
- Algo, 0s8}6790, il daly 1967

    
   
    
 
 
 

  
  
 
 
 

    
TSURUSIIKA Sotsures, KURO Kenji, KONAKA Yotaro, SAKAMOTO.

reese
Yoshikazu, SAITO: Mapahiko, etc.

comntenr Although not recorded here, many of the. above | persons
are. p exICP Beubers :

 
14-00000

   
   
  

- EUMUTONT Sotsuo
eo ROMIMARA Yukio .
- : “anpo Simbei, CHIBA SHIBA Wide, EGAWA Taku, FUSIE iittatsa, oo
A BARIYU Ichiro, HOSHINO Yasuseburo,, CHIT Saburo, IZEYAUA Suro,
ISHIDA Takeshi, BANAT Yoshiko, EASAY Seiichi, KATAGIRI Yuzura,
. KATO Shuichi, KAZAMA Michitaro, HATSUURA Sexo, EIDDEORO Hate,
XITAEOJI Satosht, KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, KGIATSU Sakyo,
RKOBAYASEI Toni, KUNO Osamu (Shu), KURODA Hidetoshi, MARUVAMA ,
— see ee
Masao, MIDORIKAVA Toru, MIZUSAWA Yana, NORITART Ichiro,
MUCHAKU Seikyo, HURAMATSU Hiro, NISHIO Nobora, NOMURA Koichi,
OGOSET Teruo; | OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko, SERIZAWA Tac, SuIRAY Sapo
SHINMERA Takeshi, SHISHIDO Hiroshi, SUGIURA Hitsuo, SUGIYANA |
Tatsunara, SUZUKI Hasabira, TAKEUCHE Yoshitono, WADA Nagahisa, ’
AMADA Munenitsu, YAMADA Toshio, YANAGUCHT Kosaku, YANANISHT
: EiichS, YASUDA Takeshi, YOSHINO Genzsburo, YOSHIWARA =e
OKAMOTO Taro, MATSUMOTO Seicho, BI Rokusuke, Tam Toke,
| AWAYA Noriko, KATO Yoshiro, SHIROYAMA Saburo, TARABASHT ”
— Taketono, ODAGIRI: Hideo, ORUMA Minoru, BANO Kenji, SUZURT

oes Hichaniko, KUBATA = SHINOHARA Seiei, MARUYAMA unio,

SECRET.

   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 
14-00000

  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 

 

. for hiding the four deserters. Other private.d -
‘ longing to BEXEIREN leaders and loyal Paps tg
shroughout both the Kanto and Kansai areas. ;

“YOSHIKAWA has maintained periodic contact with Soviet Embasay
officials for years. BEESIREN Chairman CDA hes met Soviet
Peace Committee officials in Moscow. The exact nears of how ,
_ this jinaison was accomplished in this case is .

 b) BEUEIREN/Soviet. Liaison: PEDEIREN Sceretary a

 

made On Guo ;
5 vy ess ache Nikolas ;

“ Yasilyevien, ad second by YOSEIEAWA to First Secretary so
Sergoy D. Anisimov, urgently requesting a private mesting Coes
ister that day to discuss “an extremely important, extrencly:

delicate matter”, without doubt the cass, of the four sailors.

a "ed. BEREIREN/U, S. Pacifist Linison: BEEEIREN contacted: .
Dartmouth’ University professor Ernest. P. Young, who Zlew to <=.
Japan ou & November, apparently helped BEEEIREN leaders check.
_out the bona fides of the deserters, and returned to the U.S. --
.on 11 November, (Attachment § is.,the translation of a Sankei
. Shimbun article, dated 21 November, reporting an interview :
. with Young, giving his version of his rele jn this case. -o:

 
    
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
   
   
    
   
 
   
 
 

 

 

; 5. Escape to to Hoscou: - “The four deserters. turned up in.
_mogcew on 20 November. The press has speculnted widely and .
“ygnaninously that the four left Japan on the Soviet passenger .

_ ship Baikal on 11 November. Again, there is no dissenting =.
opinion, overt nor covert, The only mystery concerning this
final phase of the Japanese portion of this case concerns the |
: mechanics of how the four boarded the Baikal and who assisted.” ©
.in this maneauver. But with the sailing of the Baikal fron -

~ Yokohana, BGEHEIREN completed its most bighiy successful and -

. beautifully executed activity in its 2 1/2 year history. Not
only did BEBEIREN smear the American Government's image in.
Japan, not only did BEHEIREN gain u vast smount of priceless -
; _ publicity that will swell the ranks of ites supporters and be - :
' invaluable dn future activities, but BESEIREN doubtlessly . ;

even made a prozit, financially, on this low budget cperstion - 5 :
‘« donations are still pouring into BEBZIREN Headquarters from. - -
all over Japan to “help aud protect U.S. deserters”.

 

 

  

     
14-00000

\ YOSHIKAWA Yuichi (GEREIREN Secretary General) ~ former scp

“member. :

ODA akote esmeinan Che ssias) - . popular novelist
: EAYKO ion ~ Akatagava prize winning novelist
_KUBO Keinosuke - “ ‘film producer and director,

. tSuRuuT Shunsuke ~ Doshisha University professor. .

 ®SURUME Kazuke ~ sister of Sbunsuke (thoir father is the ‘Late 7
“_ Bailesopher, Yusuke)» “on we

7? EURUYAMA, Youo o bigh school toacher.

7 MOTO tes. Q = “ex-JCP (tried. to travel to U.S. to: ) represent ;
..” BEBRIREN at October 21 demonstrations this Tear ¢. but was |
"denied, a visa to enter the a. $s.)

"YAMADA J Ats ~ ex-ICP,

FUKUDA ‘Yoshiyuie ~ playeriter. :
eee

1,/ TOMINAGA Ichiro - - cartoonist.
FUEASAEU Witsusada ~ ‘professor:

 AWAZU Eiyosht - ~ - graphic designer
‘TAKADO Kaname oe - Christien Leader.
: YOSHIDA Kiju - - - tim director.
“UMIHARA Shun = weiter. ;

7 " HASEIHOTO Mineo - - Buddhist priest.

8. - HORTA Yoshie - - Bvelist.

Goro Hiroyuki - - scientist. :
_ ROWABARA ‘Takeo - = = profeaner at + Ryoto University

 

 
14-00000

     

BEEEIREN. The choice of ODA Hakoto, on-Fulbrightor and 9
popular young novelist, to b@ €hé chief front man - Chair-—.

“man = Was an extremely lucky stroke for BEHEIREN. ODA has .”
‘ taken to this grand-standing, front work like a duck to... :
, water. It has given him a chance to give unbridled vent to =
bis own latent anti-American feolings, puffed him up to the - m4
extent that he has been dubbed “the emperor" by other BENEIREN - ve
- aetivista, and given him at long last an ideological mission = ©:

to pursue. YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding |
ODA's ego neads and in infusing and indoctrinating ODA se ..__
‘that his words and actions take on sufficiently viruloat™
anti-American overtones, CDA has served another vital . ;
function for BENEIREN by recruiting a sizeable number o. Port
. fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of BEEEIREN activists..°”
(Attachment 1 is a listing of a number of those Japanese who |. '-
thie re) identified as active BERRIEN SUPPOF LORS | or syupa~ :
th Zers.

 
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

 

   

 

    
   
   
 
 

 
  

 

Pe ” grapminetionad Development : In its 2. 4/2: ‘year history, 7
‘ BRERTAEN has not appreciably changed its organizational format,
elthough it has moved its office three tines and modified its...
mame even oftener. PEREIREN is not a “mass organization”, ke- 9
‘¢ause it has had no sizeable popular backing to the present
: time. Its hard core, secretariat organization is run by. .
YOSHIBAWA and his lieutenants.. Its public image, intelicctual
front is led by ODA, and given body by a-score of like-minded
intellectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAGA, who form the loose
‘ body of BEBEIREN's activist leadership... Under this BEQEIREN .
. leadership superstructure lies a paltry base of only several
hundred BEHEIREN “rank-and-file“i:supporters, mostly young. °:
Japanese students. Organizationally, BEHEIREN has no formal ©
*gembership system, 80 its base of supporters is fluid and not. -
- precisely measurable... However, the base support for BEHBIREX.
hss definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and made such. ~
notable strides during the past summer that JCP Headquarters ce
officials finally felt conStrained to note with concern: that .- |»
SEREIREN was beginning to drnin off a growing number of. pro-.
gressive youth who otherwine would have been absorbed into.”
the JCP'’s own youth movement. SBEHEIREN leaders have tried to 2)".
help this growth along by setting up a youth section, calling a
it "Young BEHEIREN.” SEEBIREN'’s imaginative actions and -

- publicity-conscious programs have been responsiblie for. its ©
‘-wecent growth, and this period of arowth, seens be now on

 
 

[oom ‘0279

oisPATCH [==

WARIS Foe TERE,

 

    

ie ov Bloc Div: Chie xr Di

_ b : J 1 bh f Fa Ea ision | x | WOOK REGED
Chief, WOMUSE/ICG eax mee note
FROM
_— Chief of Station | pore

- RYBAT uipASHA REDTOP - Beheiren_and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters
~ Pacnio ERENCES
72.63

 

“6-3

As noted in reference, forwarded herewith is a copy of the sub-

- | ject memorandum, Please note that the information in the memorandum

 

. a Paragraph B. 4. b) is particularly sensitive and should only be

given properly restricted dissemination. ee

bowie xf bof)

Mark J. LIDGE

 

_ ATTACHMENT =~ :
“Memo dtd 27 Nov 67

. Distribution

_ o-® - C/SB Div w/l.cy “attach. /
“.. 1 = C/FE w/1 cy attach - es
FP. - C/WOMUSE/ICG w/l attach cos

   
       
 
  

RETURN To CA
- patkgound Use Only
Do NotReproducs

 

     

. CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

Condected on le (0-76, .
ed wapDET CE By 260595. oo

      
 
 
   

   

ae
ot?

DEC 6 iggr
 

   

 
   
  
   
   
 

iP .
the verge of veally “pickiag < up speed and 1 ‘omentum. _ “hs
“of its role in the case of the four deserting nontun. As a result 7

has reaped bountiful publicity, has succeeded in touching a.
-delicate Japanese. public nerve of sympathy. and pacifism, open~ ar
ing a fLieadgate of support for BEHEIREN from all over Japan. —

‘When this case fades from the limelight, it is still most .

-likely that a fair percentage of current wave of popular © :
support for BEHEIREN will solid rmanent mass backing, —
.giving or the first tine, a cr
support its future activities,

 

    
   
   
  

 

 
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
     

 

5. Activities and Accom lishments: BEREIREN: thas engaged”
in a number of propaganda actions, and participated in inter~ .
national anti-Victnam War activities. It has tried to co~ => ..°
operate with certain front activities in Japan controlled by. :
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to investigate War -.
Crimes in Vietnam activitiés, which culminated in the Tokyo: -
‘Court of last Atigust, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed
-by the JCP. In spite of this, BEHEIREN bas churned along at.
its own pace; with a continuing series of anti-Vietnam war --
actions, most of them related in some way to the American. — ae
“pacifist movement. In this regard, BEHEIREN has succeeded in. .
cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese contacts with the U.S.
pacifist movements, and has effectually capitalized on this to
promote its own action program.. The case of the four deserting
sailors, while an-spparent lucky windfall for BEHEIREN, only
points up the fact that BEHEIREN, through past ofpanizat ional
work and promotional activities, was “johnny~on-the-spot", |
ready and capable (unique in Japan in this regard) to take ©

the ball and run with it. BENEIREN ran all the way in this
ease and scored its most notable success since it was organized.
. (Attachment 2 is a listing of BEABIREN's more notable activities
since its founding. Attachment 3 is a partial listing Of oe
‘American and other foreign persons SIREN.) to have been an
ontact with or. ‘cooperated With REED

  
 
 
 

“Be: * The ‘Case of the Four Sailor Deserters. and BENEIREN.

a L: How It Started: ’ “The consensus of all availabic overt:
‘media material, with no recorded dissent, indicates that the —~_
‘four sailors voluntarily left their ship,” went AWOL, and ended”

up wallowing around Tokyo's hippie-land. - Precisely what personal -
grievances prompted the fowe to embark on this mis-adventure is es
not yet known, But, up to this point, the four could fairly be a
‘eategorized as misguided youngsters, gone astray in « foreign’.

: land, and due to get slapped back in line with traditional we
Navy justice when they finally decided to atop the fun and go. _
back to the Ship. So far, this made their ‘canes far from Pe Pa

unique. — SEGRET.

  

    
14-00000

oT

   

 
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  

But instead of returning to
eing apprehended by. the
4th BEHEIBEN leaders.

; How It Beenre an Incident:
‘gheis ship of their own volition or b

bore Patrol, the four made contact ¥.
: . indicate that this was just a coincidence,

s reports
Aen ene vas no pre-planning by the four to contact BEHEIREN,
fpere are Bo available overt nor covert reports that indicate
otherwise.!: But, once the BEHEIREN people nade contact, they .
recognized the potential inmediately and:moved fast for the
kill.:: (Attachment 4 ie a Yoniuri Newspaper clipping, 22 Nov--
v 1967, that is both « representative and comprehensive -
perenlrs of this phase of the case.’ Even if this article |
ghould contain some minor inaccuracies, the basic line seeng  .-

factual and bas not been challenged elsewhere.)  __

; .  BEMEIREN Takes Over:°: When the four made contact with
PEEEIREN, it suddenly became an entirely different baligaxe. .
'- BEHSIREN had everything needed to capltslice on this: veteran
activist leaders who are experienced enough to recognize the .
windfall that had come their way; an apparatus that could .
provide hiding places for the four; long standing liaison...
contacts with Soviet Embassy officials for use in plenoting UY
* exit from Japan; solid conta reliable American >. - :
pacifists with whom the bona fides of the four sailors could _.
be checked; money and organization to capitalize on the = ~
propaganda potential (such as preparing a movie film for the
initial BEHEIREN press conference announcing the desertion, -

 

  

  

prepared more likely than not by BEHRIREN stalwart _EUEO. oo
Keinosuke, an independent film producer)! and English speaking
activists capable of sympathizing, éncouragiag, soothing, or.
agitating the four young sailors, so that there would be no -..
turning back. veg te hop pt :

           
  
  

 
 

 

adept handling of this case shines through clearly. The follow-
ing elements, all part of the BEBEIREN apparatus, make up the . S

  

  

 

) Hide-out:' When BEREIREN got hold of the four on ~~
October, they had to be hiden out for the approximate
two: week period until their exit from Japan could be arranged...
This presented BEHEIREN no great logistical problem. A number
of the BESELIREN activist leaders have homes well suited to
harboring fugitives. For example, BEHEIREN activist leader |

has a villa hidden avay in Chignsaki, which
was used on the night of 12 September for a meeting of about .
20 top BEREIREN leaders, and which would be highly suitable

    
     
   
 
 
 
  

 

  

 

     
