 

i
4

 

costae ta a eeseee sant Gehan tetiente SoPn BO ae, FREE pe

  
 

 
 

 

 

WERT Ae re TS tah Re I ENE AR I that YR tint tacen fer cn nace panes ads tmmeta sete eer tatite sinjnat me ornate He

 

SECRET

@ March Ice.

MEMORANIAIM FOR THE RECORD

  

SUBJECT: Meeting with In. Willian Pawley and Fsbio FRBYRE on Financial

and Organizational Matters
TIME & PIACE: 1595 Hours, 2 March 19CO; Mr. Pavley’s Office in Mant
1. Jacob Eeterline, using the name Jaecb Englund, met Tor two hours with

Mr. Pawley and Mr. FREYRE on the date indicetec. The following subjects vere
covered during thig meeting: .

 

a. Megarding the bond iscuc which Mr. F
view of raising $2,000,000 for support uf 9;
Esterline toll hin that the Mist two cantidates to si issce
. were quite acesptuble. Ghose people. are EZailto OCHOA Oches ant
Dr. Gustave CURHVO. Esterline said the other two Mr. Fawley had
suggested were turned down in washingtoneengt for any per:
reasons, but merely because they hed been too closely associated
with MATISTA elements in the past. After eore resistance, particularly
with regard to MARQUEZ Sterling, Mr. Pavley'c third candtdsts, he
acrecd to consider others. Two of the nost crominent cans

 

 

aition activities,

 
     

 

  
 

 

mentioned were Antonio VARONA, Autenties leater, and Jorge ZAYS,
formar editor of the Habana daily newoperer, La Ava Although ~

Mr. Tawley ana his colleague, Hr. FAZYRZ, hed no reservations with
regard to ZAYAS, they were of mixed emeticng on VARONA+-particularly
becouse of a recent report they had receive? from RUBIO Padilla in
Habana indicating that VAROIA is Awther to the left than hai formerly
been considered. This point was debated at length and it was nally
decided that the resolution woul! turn on veether or not Rr. VAROMA
would be willing to come to the States and formally join the cpposition.

 

(vOTE To MR. GQpGpEp: (1) Where is ZAYAS at the present time and when can
he te brcught back to the United States to sfgn the bonds? (2)
had any leftist traces on VARONA before? Also, ta the Station in touch with
him and could they determine through a channel other than RUBIO Psiilla whether
VARONA will, in fact, come to the United States for a purpose such as-thist)

 

 

_Mr. Pawley is pressing for action in getting the bonds signed and his
point is well taken. {it met be noted, hewever, that it would be foolish
to accept nanes which are less than acceptable becouse, in the long run,
4t would defeat our purpose.

be. On the question of publication of a Cuban newsnaper in Miami,

nts for

that he.
had, und with enthusfaso sald he had also beer able te é Spanish
eonversicn kite for the iinotime hines vhich does away v! the necessity
of buying, the machines. Esterline then queried hin on what bla reaction

Sttstl

 
 
  
 

  

 
 

 

104-10220-10117

CC] unccassipigo oy meer” CONF TENTIAL C] secaer

 

 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUAISCT: 2Opeere!)

 
  
   
  
  
  

“8 Mareh.1S60"

YO: (ike cmagnctan, mee number, ond
buittng) -

COMMENTS (Number each comment to thow fom’ wham
te whom. Crm ating oerets colume aher each comment |

 

 

=
Mr. Reynolds

2. Cony attached for your
rebtontion should you desire.

3. Cory attached for your
duitial retention 2nd then
please forward for Subject
_, Tile. Thack you.

 

 

 

 

 

 

| ta OOS EP secret = conFipentiaL «= MERA) uncLaSsIFIED

DA CCS SRRNENE MENTION 2a. sen e > orereE

 
 

 

UAE NSA LES ft US a mtapenanen. ne ent ipue tact Aeyo ene hetero

 

  

 

 

to printing
in Cuba,

to prin

agreed ths

ae wen ca

Que

“Re

  

nee It would be dafunet vor ult practical ur
coin said witt that he would be p
fees soon as ZAYAGS sulured to the country. It war mutusliy
priority propaganda targuts for the

ANee Bt

      

     

  

   

dumedinate future.

Ge

Pawley made the remark that through h
with acticn ge
departure fur i
detail with

and Mr.

tth Chiafl, VID in Washington, Mre
friends in Mlam{ he had contact
oo in Pinar del Bio und Comysurye Prior to Esterline's
wah, C, WED avkod hin to look into these groups {n more
: Ley. ‘The subject wan accordiavly raised and Kr. Pavley
FREYRE, who had most of the subatenvive fnformation, provided the

    

Turtap 2 reeent comverrcation v4

 

   
  

 

following:

(1) On Pinar del Rio, Mr. FREYRE eatd there was a group

in that area, but he did not tuve the name of it at his finger-

tips «

the moment. He offered to get ft within tha next fev

days and maze it available through Mr. Fuyvley.

 

 

 

 

(2) Gn Camaguey, Mr. FIRE catd that a Poctora (spt)

‘ig actively working with retired elements of the old army Living
in that srea. This croup--and 1t would appear that she may have
contact with 300 at the moment (the total group is approxinately

 

4500) - upposedly organizing as a resistence army in Camaguey.” _
Ora. bas complete responsibility for this organization. Sho

 

 

to aided ty a Dr] ter + PREYHE said that should any-

body abteayt to contact hnd she vas not present, contact '
could be rate with Dr who vould put thom in touch 7

with her. Mr, FREYRE eppeared to have no further details of the .

 

 

group other than those cet forth ebovee He did cay, however, -
that thor e vag ean existing contact plan which anybody could use

sor

with complete ‘security either cn the telephone or in a personal

meet,

{ote to Mr.
on the acce

is interceted
Dre.

 

 

 

 

non-offietal rerson to make this contact. Alvha
ean be use for thi
know whether

 

ae
te

      

hovever, cave

Distribstlony

ing. This plan would work as follows:

 

 

 

 

Ghe person contacting Dra. should say they
ave cocing from Zeta 29 to talk to Aden 27 (thesa-are old
scrority and traternity designations). Having established
‘this, they should then say to the Doctora that they ure
corning to consult. abcut agturtan reforr. This will ectablish
the bons fides of the percen making contact as a friend of
Mr. PRZYPE.

 

Revnclts ard Mr. Toorey: Please have soucbuly prerare o Tepute
Vcibility of the F the Station “bat. licatquarters
in cetercinins rove precisely the mmertcal strength and composition of
group. The dispatch chovld also eugcest that Station Habana eclect e

I would reeenment that an

ch about the gituatten in Canaey

seuting an wc

  
   

 
 
 

 
 
 

ly doen't know er
abe very hevpy aho:
dication that an american unzing: a.

  

     

 

 

no

 

Orig. & Lowe air ralate? wey oriteers Joiadee

le eps Meno Pile per

 

Oh unee

ecatset woult bes cksectioaseie.)

 
