13-00000_,

 

D, should be examined together with all the other
available reports so that we may

€1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
respect to a11 the AMLASH group (and this includes

ye
wet REO eee ORM. are worth our

time in the future;

 

(3). take ap: » including inter-

roy rogation and pers 2 clarify doubts and
then, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

 

(4) tighten up our own operational and security
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

3. Preliminary Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary
analysis Gof the SLASH [a Tex, made in March 1965 when I was
praparing for travel to in connection with the (G@Unops-1
ease: "...There is no convin¢ing evidence that the Hroup is
working either for or against the regixe of Fidel CASTRO.
Reperts on their contacts with us and their discussions amoog
themselves are at variance. In 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASH.J
and seven members of his group to enlist their sapport against
Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde and the communists in Cuba. Possibly j
they are playing both ends against the middle. Tnay certainly
have been and are in contact with the two ends." The following
conments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA: 1

eT ee

A. The AMLASH conspiracy - As detailed byl psvise
(IN 28654) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-1 reporting on 4 meeting
of the AMLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the following
signigicant points:

(1) KUBARE was criticized for "fooling around for
years” without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

ee eee
ODYOKR as responsible the “opera: nd believed that
the resulting scandal would_make, the ¢ Pigs seem insidni-
Parke! Sp ones

; (3) ‘AMLASH-3 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence
as established by coded messages which he exhibited.

As reported by] _[}1532 (IN 82939) on 4 June maf based on

ueetings with ESPINOSA, the problem seen b is that

Sy soy Pee LT

    

en oe

OgK67 pace 13 ge 69
COFY NO.

 

 
 

104-10439-10116

}

t { f :
Ft teiul

bh. my,
‘ ‘

    

SEEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WHD for Cuba

SUBJECT : Espinosa Allegations

   

   
 

    

ms Mian) We , al MN
1. Sensitivity: egardless oz aceuracy, they

 

   

A. present a problem because,of their having been
presented to othe ke rnment) agencies;
uu ye stp tt Heat

oul nee

 

B. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,

are delicate and could have unfavorabls repercussions
i2 repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his
associates (whose independent, previous threats were
oz? greater potential embarrassment);

C. affect the reputationg and the security of our
personnel at and
2. Action: In view of tha foreyoing, the alleyations

A. should be pub in prover perspective d.e., not
4gnered because of the potential swoarrassnent buat
considered in the light of what we already know
(Almost all of them are repetitions of previous
charges and reports, known well to both the

and Stations aod to iivadquarters of ficers
concerned with the ANLASH group, whose embers!
reliability, reputations and good faith are quegtion-
able. Tvo of the charges - about({ hand "Tota"
and about AMVWHIP-1 and CARRILLO . are new.);

 

 

 

 

S. should be treated so as to protect us aguingt any
charge of 1 ey-8nd so. $9 establish the facets but,
at the same ri he, treated: s 7 ipeavoid attributing
vo them more ‘importhnce than they deserve;

aC re

    

 

€,. should be KBE AH, ind asc°exampies of other

charges which ti {Re Raniied) ee t and reported by the

AMLASH group ts o&bés governieital ayencies as to

other governments or to news media (in the jast

connection recall the implied threat of publishing

OBYOKE responsibility, ag revorted previously by
3716,IN 38634.);

 

 

 

 

‘ aarere)

 

 

ee ea as pe nee
13-00000_,

 

"the ANLASH circle is wide and each new friend of whom we learn
seens to have knowledge of the plan." I believe that the
‘problem ig a more serious and basic one. As indicated in
paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fidel CASTRO himself
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group was plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its support. Hence we
cannot rule out the possibility of provecation. Assassination,
obviously, is a dangerous game, not merely to the plotters in
@ physical sense, but to a sponsoring government which may
suffer severe political repercussiona at home and abroad if its
involvement is made known. In the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there is
@ provocation or not. Considering the individuals who are
involved directly, their contacts with KUBARK officers,and their
reported plan to expase ORYORI pe m the plan could.

f BO SORA 4 even more the cage
now that SSPINOSA had! tidkdd\ Pal DURGE, although
fortunately the tenor of hig complaint was that KUBARK had not

given adequate support TED
3. The contacts at re @ matters affecting

the [ eoibeatton. - The "recruitment" of Maureen bad been the
Sepeeeoentt . subyee 2 an exchange of cables between and Headquarters - 0:
i andof discussions at Headquarters between 3H/C and VE (See

    
  
 

: 1071 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in
\ £hiS connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about it to
: CDENVY and CDURGE and the danger that, if he is indiscreet, ;
his story avout this (and the other matters) could reach some !
curLous newspaperman. (In this connection, it aypears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch with the AMLASH
group was made without the knowledge of STCCKVWCOD.) . ESPINOSA
did not report any criticism of the KUBARKers at Pout it
is evident that the AMLASH group knows more about EHém than
we might on What is new and of concern from ESPINOSA about

 

matters in is hig story of AMWHIP.1 and \UNBNAFU-19
dealings. The questions raised about AMWHIP-1 are of mutual
concern also to Headquarters which has been running him and
which he ha ted often. (On the occasion of ny

svrous trip con the out -1 case, GROWERY had voiced |
his doubts about-the whole group and specifically about AMVHIP-1
and his connection with(UNSNAFU-19.) At issue are two basic
points, the knowledge on the part of [UNSNAFU-19 about KUBARK's
connection with AMWHIP-1 and the charge that AMWHIP~1 has been
defrauding KUBARK in the jewelry transaction. ae hh kept
in mind is the fact that ODENVY has an office in which
well might have been informed of the allegations and which might
have been asked for comments - although ODENVY policy always i
has been to stay away from any investigation of other government
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney General

to investigate. P PP

i Fauteert)

  

 

aEog 65
NGS pace 14 of OD
COPY HO. 2 ann
 

 

Criticism of tne Station - Criticism of
cbe[_—“beation by the AM group is not new. AMLASH-2
and -3 were ia and wanted direct contact, but the
Station bas had reservations about seeing them. The Station has
been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources
about and involvement of Station targets with both the AMLASH
and 4MWORLD operations (both handled froa Headquarters).

Meetings among RT, WIFT-1, AMVHIP-1 and AMLASH figures

roduced conflicting reports which previously were discussed at
and at Headquarters. Insofar aa GROWERY himeelf is

concerned, it must be kept in mind that he is a natural target

 
    

on whom the AMLASH gr AM (AE \fig] Focus its com-
a plaints. With regard aadl die de epapiane about "Tota",
GEOWERY has identified as (usd IPT: % reported that
no staifer from the Station_e n Bad, contact with her.
thin a...
4. Surther involvement fore On 10 June ODERVY

notified a0. at New York that -2 had telephoned
ASPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
proper people” ~- i.e., responsible KUBARK representatives - and
to request notice of the resulting arrangementa.

S. AMWHIP-12: Our plan calls for meeting him next week
to ebtain PRQ information and to obtain clarification of the
roles played by thoge involved with him in the AMLASH operation.
Rig dealings with NAYU-19 also will be covered. Following
chis, an LCFLUTTER examination is planned. This may hely to
determine whether he has been truthful ia his reporting.

Harold ¥F. Swenson
: WH/C/SP

REPRODUCTION
PROMISED

 

15 of

fd UGRES PACE _—

(ee | 2982 (IN 72256 2998 (IN 73094) (both RYBAT).).-.....

4

|

+

 

65
2.

COPY NOe et
