74-00000

 

»

ATTENTION | Me, George Musulin

SECRET.

"27 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service

:. Garrison and the Kennedy Assasotnation;

SUBJECT
~ ’ Dr. John M. Nichele

i. Dr. John Marshall Nichola,'a Univeralty of
Kansas pathologist, has testified at the Clay Shaw trial
that ‘Photographic evidence of President Kennedy's
assassination was ‘compatible’ with the theory that the
fatal shot wae fired from the front."

. 2. Dr. Nichols, born 28 March ig2n at Charleston,

‘West Virginia, was employed by the Department of Pathology,

Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, when
he was approved for contact use by the Office of Security
in 1957. He had juet returned from a trip to Crechoslovakla-

uwhere he visited research institutes and met with various

medical men. . Office of Security records indicate that the ©
Contact Division of Domestic Contact Service planned |

to debriet Dr. Nichols on this trip with sclentific requires:
ments relating to this area on an ad hoc basie. The .
information to be discussed was classi: ted through

CONFIDENTIAL,

‘3. Thie office would apprectate any additional.
information that the Domestic Contact Service could pro-
vide regarding this. proposed relationship with Dr. Nichols.

In particular, ‘thie office is interested in ascertaining ©

One _ hooey

 

t
Evuaee THD BORE,

   
 
 

(AOS) a

ay!

 

 
   
     

Se

 

26 Febtuary 1969

 

.. Per ‘your request “of 9. February 1969, attached is‘a copy of 8 a summery :
reporting the results of an 0S records check ¢ on Dr. Jolin NM. NICHOLS. :

   

faa Fe Coyne

; Ghiet, Security” ‘Research statt/as
|" Atte as Stated

 

 

   
14-00000
an .

 

whether or not contact was actually made with Dre. -Nichola.
If contact wae made, we are also interested in finding out
how long this contact was maintained and how many meetings
were held. We also request copies of amy reports for
which Dr. Nichols was the source,

f

* “GREAT

Distribution: .
Orig. andl» DCS
° 1 + Garrison file
1- R&A Chrono

 

SECRET

 
