OF a

'* GPUSA, The Winter, 1967, issue of (Freed ways, '}.sel£-

as ‘Ki King Speaks at Rally: ‘Honoring Communist

  

 
  

«

-"Freedomways" rally. He conimfentéd: "King has never read -
.' anything as badly," and, “as though he did not understand :
oer What. he was ‘Reading. " ie ae Lo . Dot s

“yas fomed, with King's approval, for the purpose of writing Mie,

- O'Dell as Associate Managing Editor. Ketasliy, “Preedoaways!

: espousing the communist viewpoint of Negro problems. |

- at age 93.°’Gack\ 0! the popular name used by Hunter Pitt

“Pasadena, California, in 1953, for offering to engage in an act.
'.o£ sex perversion of a homosexual nature, which he admitted -
“,and for which he was sentenced to serve, 60. days.

“advisory” Commi tee Established for King .

    
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
    
 
    

\, «hens : , ; nn rrr

 

. . ‘O'Dell has continued: his efforts to make his
presence felt in the civil rights ae a of. the

.described as a review of the Negro trees Gi Tove ent, lists

is-a CPUSA-initiated and CPUSA- supported publication:

   

t
ty

On February 23, 1968, ‘King was the guest speaker
‘ata ‘rally of more. than. one thousand people at Carnegie. Hall,
:New York. city, sponsored by sy reedomays " celebrating the .
100th: anniversary of the birth of W.E.B. DuBois, famous
Negro civil ri sader who joined the Comaunist Party

    
   

€d\ as one of the speakers-wt this affair
ABA

On the “gSLLowing day; Stanley*Levison confided to-
"Clarence Jones that King perfotned: véty badly at the

O'Dell, ‘was &@

mA

v

     

“Foimer ‘Communist dvisors e

. 1930's. He was also ‘one of a selected number of observers
“permitted to attend the CPUSA's National Convention in 1957. 4
ee eee had to let Rustin go because of problems arising from
: his homosexual activities. Rustin has long been so inclined,  . |}
having been arrested in New York City in 1946 for offering to -
‘Aecommit a lewd or indecent act. Rustin was arrested again in os

 

 

re 7 L: aR es

‘On'June 22, 1964, an n advisory and research. “committee

entre
: seen mi
14-00000

    
  
    
 
    
    
   
  
 
  

. i, A - . . -
¢“ - om os he neces : : snare

- King's, speeches’ and guiding "hi “his. actions, “Among the members

ey! Jones endCHarty Wash uote Resi Bayard Rustin, Clarence.

«Jones, andCHarry Wachtelsy - oe LF

 

 

. Reddic is a “former. member of the CPUSA, On March 5,
1944, Wachtel's name was on a list of names, whose. significance |

“is not known, maintained at_the headquarters of the Kings

- County Communist Party,:New York, On the same date, records
. at this headquarters contained the name of Wachtel's wife,
Leonora, on a list of newly elected officers of the Bath Beach.

~ Club _¢ of _the 2 Kings “County < Communist ist Parry, I New York.

 

 

 

 

m adjunct; of the SCLC,

Prior to October, 1965, King atbempted to hide his.
association with Stanley Levison “dnd uséd Jones as the
intermediary. During the mid-1950's, Jones held a d_a position -
of leadership'in the Labor Youth h League, @ an organization

--\* waieh has: ‘been designated : as subversive pursuant to Executive
“| Order 10450. ° ne, y :
A : k
we "Clarencé “Jones. married Anne Asthh Warder Noz =
“on June 3, 1956, She is the daughter of deceased Se _
' William H, Notton, ‘Between 1947 and 1950 she was identified ~
.)) a8 a Communist Party club member at Sarah L Lawrence College,
In the early 1950's she was also active in the Labor Youth

~ Leagues | On' April 5, 1955, she was observed as the driver of

 
      

y
ent

 

 

  

“ underground leaders in connection with an official Comminist
Party méeting,”.In 1956, she was: described by a self~admitted
communist. as a. "hard-core re_comminist." : , oes

as Nobel Pea Prize
“th October, 1964, it was “announced that King, a
S gucyear-o1a. Baptist minister, was being awarded the Nobel -
sy); Peace Prize, On November 24, 1964, King contacted Jones and4
RL 8 te 1 ie

tooada, teres Aid
7 thy

     

 
74-0000

he was a successful ‘businessman ‘but he was also the clandestine’ *

attracted to SCLC,
ony

Committee member of the
‘when King mentioned to Levison that he was thinking of adding. D
an administrative assistant to- his “staff, _Levison recommended.

- Levison's | anid ‘O'Dell! s: communist affiliations,

his being a minister of er of -religibh’, doesnot dare to espouse
-, functionary that King was concerned about a “communist label" tees

being "pinned on us" but. that, at the same time, he wanted to oa)
*. do everything ‘possible té evidence friendship toward the’ pe

:. follows .a ‘Marxist-Leninist line.

~O'Dell's connection with SCLC and his communist affiliations.
King still tried to hide O'Dell in his organization until

 
 

     
  
  

fund-raiser for the CPUSA, He was entrusted with raising and

handling secret funds for the Party and used some of these
funds to finance his own activities, ip
reef

' “intlvencé, other subversives were
fante Pitts | O'Del ), former National
; “was 5 employed by SCLC, In 1962,

 
   
   
 

“Through Leviso

O'Dell1,. who was then head of SCLC's New York Office, King -
said he Liked. the idea, .. At the time, King was well aware of

“4 -— . - ot
a The reason King enjoyed this close velationship with
communists #5 best explained by the fact that Levison, in.
February, 1962, passed the word to Gus Hall, General Secretary, |
cpusA, "King is ay whole~hedrted Marxist who has studied it

(Marxism), “pelieves - in it and agrees “with it, “but. - because, OF,

 

it-publicly."" Further, in in Macéh, 1962, Levison told a CPUSA

j

Soviet Union, , In addition, King has been described within |

the CPUSA as a true, genuine Marxist-Leninist."from the top | |
of his head to the. ‘tips of his toes," The ‘feeling within the. -

CPUSA at that time wds, and still is, .that King” Sefinitely . : oe

|

i

tec

 

hte ee
t

King was forced to get rid of Hunter Pitts: O'DelL
in October, 1962, when several newspaper articles exposed

July, 1963, when he accepted O'Dell's "resignation," As
King put it, O'Dell's release was not because of connections
between O'Dell and the CPUSA but because of the emotional

public TESPONSSe i. ape Gaines brie arte eal oo bes

  
, err ee a “AS \
- a oe ; : +. Peter o
A

     
   

 

Bo ‘ Martin Luther King, ‘Jr., was born Ja 15, 1929, ae i
.. . at Atlanta, Georgia, . His name at birth wad Michael Lathe; mq!
, Ring, In 1935, his first name was change TAT CIN, Ales.
ing received an‘A,B,: degree in 1948 from Morehouse College, .
_ Atlanta, Georgia, -He then entered Crozer Theological EOE.
Seminary, Chester, Pennsylvania, where he was one of six |
‘.Negroes among 100 students, He won the Plafker Award as ..
chee the most outstanding student, was President of the Senior
=). Class, ‘and recé@ived the J, Lewis Crozer Fellowship ‘for i.
“. °: gvaduate study at the university ef his choice, King
_ graduated from. Crozer Theological Seminary with a Bachelor
of Divinity,degree ‘in'1951 and did graduate work at Boston .
University, Boston, Massachusetts, where | he secured a Pho dD,
ae degree! in 1955. . ‘ . 7

 

 

*

vo Upon graduation, he wks: offered. the pastorate of
two Baptist churches in the East and teaching posts in three
colleges, King chose the pastorate at the Dexter Avenue Baptist -
-: Church in Montgomery, Alabama,. After becoming established in
. his church,. hé. founded the Montgomery Improvement Association
-:. and’ led local Negroes in the Montgomery Bus Boycott that. .
"": attracted national.attention, -In March of 1957, he
founded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) |
“with himself as President, He still holds that position
J >, today, He is also co-pastor of the Ebenezer Baptist & Church,
». Atlanta, Georgia, bee Rp et ner :
. en ee . Bega
; ’ Subversives Attra sted: ‘
re ye, wh os ;
Py ‘Stanley. Levison was attracted to King and SCLC when
“Ring. gained national attention, Levison soon developed a -
' close relationship with King and was known in King's’ group as | |
cole. eoesistant Chief," In 1961, he was assistant treasurer of
; SCLC,. ae be :

 

 

 

 

 

 

ou . Brier.to joining forces with King, Levigson led” a ee
© double life, fox.the Communist: Party; USA, CGPUSA)< “Outwardly "0"
Hayta age R Yaak me, . . me Me . : *. . : i

 

  

 
  
     
    

14-0000 . | coe vo )

Washington
is -

     
  
   

 

       

Government facility
_ He has 2).

ot > i :
a ‘Na alis s na

      
  
 
  
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  

a

 
 

. . ed . . eo . . .
One serious danger” in the confrontation lies in the
. proposed action of the black nationalist groups which plan to
. attempt to seize the initiative.and escalate the nonviolent

'. demonstrations into violence, me

gay rey}

  

. King has met with black nifionalists and attempted
‘to. Solicit their sw sorte \Sesbey Carmichael tof the(Student—~:
. Nonviolent Coordinating Committee CONCC). an extremist Black
"Nationalist organization, has confer¥ed with King. Carmichael’,
‘endorses the objectives of King and advises he will not oppose ©!
_or interfere with the "Washington Spring Project's" plans for |

-» nonviolence,’.However, he also states his role will be governed |.
'. by what SNCC decides, . ee ms

  

 

King is aware of the possibility of violence because

“one of his aides proclaimed recently to the press,'"Jail will

‘be the safest place in Washington this spring," However, in

spite of this potentially-explosive situation, King continues

his plans, He adroitly uses this possibility as a lever to

{| attempt to pressure Congress into action by warning that the !
_ ."Washington Spring Project" may be the last chance in this .
*. gountry for _/ peaceful change with respect to civil vights
So Meedss re

  
74-00000

 

vA so . ( 7 bymtpmetead

    
  
 

 

' Another complicating factot in “the picture is 5 the | :.3
:, degree of communist influence on Kihg. One of King's. :

.“ principal advisors: isCStanley Day fra ~bevisony Ostensibly

‘only a New York City attorney nd inéssman, Levison is, |
“in fact; a shrewd,’ dedicated c ghunist. Levison. has spent ©
. the major part of his life adv ing communist ° interests.’

ea geyee da ee Ed

 

  
 
  

 

- a Levison ‘gravitated to Martin Luther King, ire, in:

"1956.' He has been as dedicated in his support of King as he

has been fn advancing communist goals. He has actively -

. involved himself in fund-raising drives for King; served as

‘-" his legal counsel in certain matters, suggested speech

“. + material for him, discussed with King demonstrations in =

i i. which King was involved, guided him in regard to. acceptance
“lox rejection of various publié appearances and speaking :
commitments, and helped -him wit mattets related to articles

~ and books King has prepared oe ; -

 

_tesenen micegnals s yuceemaeta nanan came nim ee

 

 

 

fp. rh ' Levijson edited most of the chapters of King's new
boule ‘book entitled | “Where Do’We Go From Here; Chaos Or Community?" - |
“ “" Levison wrote oné chapter of this book and the publisHer's' > %° |]
ae representative ‘complained to. King and Levisen that it was mo
‘obvious certain: ‘sections’ of the book were w itten by different . .
individuals, cn a

Beta t tt

 

   

lat say

    
    

7 advisor to King, that under no circumst:

 

7 permitted to ‘say anything without thei pproving it. Levison -
also informed Jones that, King is such/a slew thinker he is

usually not prepared to'make statements without help from «
../.someone, Levison i's actively participating in the planning
for King's 3 Washington ‘Spring Project." «+. » 4

 

 

teed nde Aiba nn vty

Explosive’ ‘Situation SRR, Si eg

‘

 

: . The combined forces of the communist’ “inf Luence’ and kt
.the black nationalists advocating violence~give the “Washington eee
Spring Project" a Potential for an extremely explosive situ de

oe

 

  

 

  
74-00000

  
   
  
 
    
  
  
   
    
   
    
  
    
 
  
  

 

oF CONTEN

sty
an
eat
a

  

Washington Spring Projects sssescesssersessessesecccececeloccs .
Black Nationalist, Terror POOSF CTO SC DODO DO S>ODDONSOODSTEOSER0n |
; Strong Communist Influenceccocccvoceccccccscccccooscusvenscue |.
| Explosive Situationesscesccccercecccccocccccsevcesssscerevors |

vf

i. FORMATION oF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONTERENGEseeveee

i Background of. Foundertscoscecoheccseccosccceconceccesccecceces
Subversives Attracted, ccooscccccedsecccscctacccvvcevecceccas ne
Communist EXPOSED, seocccvccvcvccdosacscodbhooggccocesodvenenes
King Speaks at Rally ‘Honoring Communist, gsocccccccenavceccves .
Former Communist AAVISOTS ooccccacccccccevcceseovacceocovceese |
' Advisory Committee Established for King,.,.coaccccoococecconce
on . King Wins Nobel eace "PLiZe, acceovvcovacccecgcreovgevveceseee :

King's Attraction for ‘Communist AdVISOTS. coocecvcncceevc%ooen.

 

Le “COMMUNIST OBJECTIVES... secevsecesssaccceesevencconenececcesos 3
. The Peace Issue APPESTS vececeecccucecanssecseverscasoecesons | ,
Ve THE, EMERGENCE OF THE PEACE ISSUE IN KING'S GROUP sess ceeseeses 20

: ‘Role as.a Peacemakersssocegenesoscscscsesceceascvesceseceoese

_Admiration LOStecceccsvcvoregcasccveccocvecerocooveccccuccecs
- Continued. Pressure by PLeSSccoccccescvoscooevococvececceueaca

* Anti~Vietnam War Resolutions sccccccevcccoscccecceveccceuacuve :

"Face the Nation scccccccvccsessccsveccccccssscseevessecvcnes

 

  

SS aEREEaE rumen an i SE SEE SER - —— . :
 

 
     
     

   

= FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION |

1

  
   
  
   

 

re Ones

Mo

oD RELEASE INFULE aa
OT RELEASE jy PART

7 ed TOTAL DENIAL Wi

 

   

  
  

 

SR ne watt eo BS OAT

». SECRET

LT

 
14-00000

5 bata |
~ eerie

“econ yend ne
: a ae
te a : :

  

   

 

’ Senate HearingSeesescoseeveccoocevescccoccccescoscevcs ec ccces 12!
"The: Nation"! Symposiums ceosevccoccecconvccevoneucevcaveceaece ia
Riverside Church Speechscoccccsccasccccccccecaccocscoreveacee 13:
Spring Mobilization. cocooconccvcescocsveccecsccneaccensacepee: 13%,
ing for Presidentecesccccecccscvcccvceuescocesgoeoseveoseoe. 150
| The Birth of Washington Spring Projecterscocsecesessesneoeces, 16)

 

   

ae fhe
Ve. “ gout [HERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE FINANCES, , coo cee: aacece: 16

i
ye
te
a

 

DOdgesseceeecorscccsoccsscoceseeeseoescococesschavoeeie. ‘17

from: Individuals, seccecoscccvcceccvcscnccorosonsovessee. L7:
s. from Government Agencies. ccoceccccceservoccregvcvccveen': 18

for Washington Spring, Projects ccccovsecseooveccovscercs 18

 

é

“VT. “KING'S PERSONAL CONDUCT ssc vossoerevecssescedscssrsscoevoo ee, “19 :

oe wos :
Previous Sexual Experiencess. ei H ccuvaccseecccccecesseccess 19

wf , King's MLSLLESSsccococc csv co rodooo er oe eee sQogaeLaDoroEDOnaOED 20
: _ King's Historical ASPECtoorsecsceeorceccgovoecocenscoosovers 20.

t wk Na ea

‘from, Firms and Foundations, scosvecccccoeiaccconsvoocees LTS

  

 

 
  

74-0000

    
    
 
 
 
     
  

oF

| of

- INTRODUCTION |
too an . hoe Ht. an . a : : 1
-_ ;/ 0": Sinee 1956, Martin Luther King, Jrv., has occupied a>
. prominent role in the drive for equal rights for Negroes in the ;
_. United States. During this critical period in our Nation's
» Jhistory, much has depended on him as the individual Negroes in
“great numbers have' looked to for leadership in. their drive to
“ot. achieve equality. Much depends on him still in these’ times i.
‘when racial tensions have created,an atmosphere of fear and-!,
_: foreboding among many Negroes and. whites alike, The course
King chooses.to follow at this critical time could have +:
. momentous impact on the future of race relations in the ° veg
_ United States, andi for ‘that reason. this paper has been prepared
to give some insight into the nature of the man himself as... ou
_ well as ithe’nature! of -his views, «goals, objectives, .tactics
- and the reagons therefor, ; an ,
_ ane” oN gd IS Soa [12

P PAlortay Fearn

   
 
 
   
 

. ‘ ee as wy
ee

“ah s : ; | yaw yo
‘Washin ton Sprin, Proje t.. oS ra “y rd)
; “ Tow

  
  
  
  
    

 

a J#PD Prevident of theGouthern ~ .
Christian Leadership/Conferenc&>(SCLC), has stated publicly” Wh
__. that he and 3, iS"Followers will march on Washington, D..C.,
this spring. He has announced that he will lead a massive i074
civil disobedienéé campaign that wid] disrupt the normal’) — : :
course of business and, in fact, close down the Nation's
Capital. He originally announced this project on August 15,
-. 1967, in Atlanta, Georgia, on the occasion ef the tenth
° anniversary of the SCLC, :

    
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

- King predicted that this massive civil disobedience. | .
_ will be more effective than riots. Concerning civil disobedience,’
. King declared, ‘To dislocate the function of a city without
. destroying it can be more effective than a riot, because it~ ee

‘ean be longer lasting, costly to society, but nat wantonly |
.. destructive."" ; . ne

 

 

 
