 

104-10331-10048

e-

; SECRET, MGT
C/HRG

Subject: Agee Interview

Attached is a memo prepared by Charles Dollar recording his
actions on the Agee Interview. At that time, the DO
concurred with John Carver in having NARA take deletions for
the agency. Unfortunately, Dollar went beyond. the agreement
and made changes without notifying the Agency. Tilley has
pulled the open copy off the shelf for the present.

The DO is reconsidering the earlier position and may propose
that we take the past Agency position of neither confirming
or denying comments by Agee. The "Dollar Redacted" copy at
NARA would be replaced by a full text copy.

This raises several questions:

1. How to acknowledge review of the document without giving
official status to the document? Our "no objection to
release" stamp on a document is generally considered an
"official release" by the Agency.

2.Is there a problem if we do not indicate that we hav
seen the document? ;

3. How do we treat documents of similar nature? Attached is

cle by Wilcott which contains information on the
eee To take any deletions would confirm what
ie is saying. (I am sure that the Lesar types have a
copy of the article.)

4. There are numerous letters, interviews, testimony, etc.,
of private citizens (many former agency employees, but
not all) in the HSCA referred material. Until now we
have been taking deletions when requested by DO. Is
there a problem with picking and choosing those we take
deletions in and those we ignore?

One approach to the problem would be to review and redact as
appropriate only official documents such as testimony and
depositions. Letters, articles, interviews, etc., by Le
private citizens would be release in full with no Agency
comment or with a different stamp.

I have not discussed the above issues with the DO. Hal,
Chuck and I have had several discussions and agree that the
problem is broader than the Agee interview and that our
current guidelines are not adequate.

Let me know when you have time to discuss.
