13-00000

_... 04/16/97 WED 16:11 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB

 

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor > Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

April 16, 1997

Mz. J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Piatus of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Compliance

 

Dear Barry:

Iam writing to memorialize the Review Board’s understanding of the status of CIA’s -
responses to our formal and informal requests for additional information and records
that have been requested pursuant to the Review Board's authority under Section
7(4)(1)(C) Gi) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994) (JFK Act). ,

It is important that everyone at the Agency who is responsible for providing answers to
our requests for additional information and records understand that the answers will
need to be incorporated by reference into the Agency’s Final Compliance Statement.
Essentially, CLA will need to attest, under oath, that it has made all reasonable and
diligent searches and that its answers are true and correct to the extent of the best,
reasonably available information. In this regard, is important to note that when the
Review Board requests, for example, a 201 file, it is not asking that you identify relevant
records within the Sequestered Collection. Rather, it is asking to review the original
201 file in its current and most complete version.’

 

‘The Review Board has no basis for assuming that.a 201 file as it appears in the
Sequestered Collection today is necessarily complete. It is fully possible that a relevant
document was not identified by CIA or the HSCA in 1978-79 and therefore is not
included in the Sequestered Collection, or that a relevant document that was initially
placed in the Sequestered Collection in 1978-79 may have been misplaced at some point
during the subsequent twenty years. Therefore, in response to requests for files, it is
not sufficient merely to point to places where responsive records. appear in the
Collection. On a case-by-case basis, we are very willing to hear your explanations for
the possible burdensomeness of any particular search or your analysis of why a search

 

Boano Mempens: John A. Tunheim, Chair « Hanry F. Graff » Kermit 1. Hall - William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Executive Dinecron: David G. Marwell-

tquuz
13-00000.
04/16/97 WED 16:11 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson
April 16, 1997
Page 2

As we have written in our formal requests and as we have said to you orally, you
should interpret our requests in the broadest reasonable sense. However, to the extent
that you believe that a request poses an unreasonable burden that we may not have
anticipated, or to the extent that you have suggestions to modify or to amend our
requests in such a way as to better reach our goals, you.should not hesitate to make
suggestions or seek clarification. However, unless we specifically hear from you to the
contrary, it is our presumption that CLA will respond fully to the requests as posed.

In response to your request, the ARRB staff has now identified six of our outstanding
Tequests as high priority issues. We would appreciate your forwarding to us as much
responsive material as you are reasonably able to assemble during the upcoming two
‘weeks with regard to these six issues. We wish to obtain a reasonably complete
response to these requests within one month. These six issues are identified in the text
by double asterisks (**).?

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts involving first, the formal requests
for information and records, and second, the informal requests for information and

. tecords. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the following points
differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.”

IL. Formal Requests.
CIA-1 Organizational Material. _

CIA has collected information responsive to this request for Review Board
action. The ARRB staff has identified records that it believes will enhance the

will not be fruitful.

7A9 identified more fully below, the six issues are: CLA-7 (Histories); CLA-16
(Oswald Pre-assassination files); personnel assigned to a designated post;
QOKENCHANT; the electronic take from the Mexico City Station; and files on George

Stanley Brown.

>This memorialization follows-up, in large part, on your conversations of March
19 and 20, 1997 with Michelle Combs and on the DO and DS&T briefings to the ARRB
staff on April 1, 1997.

Zoos
13-0000 r DEC @3 °96 @3:18PM

David G. Marwell

DCI/OGC/LD{_——— “(ssC«d'7G124 «(2 ~Dee 96)
OGC-96-53203

Distribution: ; ;

Original Addressee
DC/LD/OGC
6c
C/BRG
LCC Signer mo
Lit File - LDG00021
OGC Registry

wee eee

P.474
DEC @9 °96 93:17PM

David G. Marwell

Harrelson directly. As usual, they will provide you with
the specific information you need as quickly as possible to
continue to record CIA's compliance with the JFK Act.

As to your request for a complete description of the
gateps CIA has taken to respond to specific requests, I

P.3/4

understand that there are several outstanding requests. HRG

has assured me that these requests have been discussed with
your staff and responses will be provided to you as quickly
as possible. Given the number and breadth of the requests
that are being made by the Review Board and the limited
staff resources available to CIA to process such requests, I
ask that the Review Board ‘continue to prioritize all its
requests for information or‘documents. With the Review
Board's priorities established in this way, the Agency can
immediately work on those requests that are most important
to the Review Board. Of course, as CIA responds to these
requests, HRG will provide any information the Review Board
needs as to how the searches were conducted. I believe that
this method will best meet the needs of the Review Board and
will allocate CIA's limited resources in the most efficient
manner possibile.

Finally, as to your requests to interview CIA officials
yvesponsible for this Agency's compliance with the JFK Act,
Mr. Pereira has always been available to the Review Board
for informal discussions as well as for giving sworn.
testimony including depositions. CIA has never objected to
the Review Board deposing or interviewing informally any of
its current or former employees and has, in fact,
facilitated such interviews. You will also recall that, on
6 August 1996, Messrs. Pereira and Harrelson gave sworn
testimony at an open hearing of the Review Board.

I trust that this responds to the concerns raised in
your letter. Of course, if you should have any questions
regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact

an attorney in the Office of General
Counsel, at (703) 874-3124. .

 

 

 

 

With every good wish, I am

Sincerely yours,

 

 

 

 
13- ope

The Honorable John M. Deutch
November 27, 1996

Page 5

5. Compliance Depositions. Starting on or about August 1, 1997, the Review
Board, pursuant to its statutory authority, may conduct depositions,
under oath, of the Agency Compliance Official along with any other
agency officials with responsibility for complying with the JFK Act: The
decision to take a compliance deposition of an agency will be made ona
case by case basis, taking into account the importance of the agency to the
work of the JFK Act and the sufficiency of the agency’s efforts to account
fully for its compliance with the JFK Act. In the event that the Review
Board decides to commence a compliance deposition of an agency, the
responsible agency designee(s) will be expected to testify under oath with
respect to any and all issues relating to the agency’s record Sal arch,
including the scope of the search, the identity of filés searched, the”
destruction of any relevant records, and any other matters set forth in the .
Final Declaration of Compliance. Any person obligated to appear for a
deposition under oath shall be fully entitled to obtain legal representation.

We look forward to receiving your initial response, by December 9, that designates your
Agency Compliance Official and includes your statement regarding your position with
respect to the provisions outlined in this letter. To the extent that you have any
questions or suggestions regarding the Compliance Program, please do not hesitate to
contact our General Counsel, T. Jéremy Gunn, at (202) 724-0088.

Thank

you for your cooperation with our work.

Sincerely,

a

>

David

\ 1

er ee

G. Marwell a

Executive Director

cc:

The Honorable Nora Slatkin, Executive Director, Central Intelligence Agency

Michael O’Neil, General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency

John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency

Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group, Central
Intelligence Agency
Lp, DEC 89°96 @3t17FM we P.zrd

/ - “4 . 7 , .

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

General Counsel

9 December 1996

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street N.W., 2nd Floor
Washington D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Marwell:

The Director of Central Intelligence has forwarded to
me your 27 November 1996 letter for response. I commend the
efforts of the Review Board and its staff in reviewing and
releasing hundreds of thousands of United States Government
documents for greater public understanding about the
assassination of President Kennedy. I also confirm the
Central Intelligence Agency's commitment to continue working
closely with the Review Board in carrying out its statutory
authorities.

With regard to the requests made in your letter, I
understand the Review Board's desire to demonstrate to the
public that it has carried out its duties thoroughly and
diligently. You have requested that CIA appoint an Agency
Compliance Official to be responsible for ensuring CIA's
compliance with its obligations under the JFK Act. The DCI
has full confidence in Mr. John Pereira as Chief of the
Historical Review Group (HERG) and has determined that Mr.

Pereira will continue to act as the CIA official responsible
for ensuring full compliance with the JFK Act and will
remain the Agency's focal point with the Review Board.

You have also requested that CIA provide an Initial
Statement of Compliance. Mr. Pereira and Mr. Barry
Harrelson, the senior review officer for HRG, as well as the
rest of the HRG staff, have always been available to you
without restriction. The Review Board and your staff have
been provided access to any relevant documents or
information you have requested. As you know, the Review
Board was fully informed as to the steps CIA took to
designate Agency records as part of the President Kennedy
collection. HRG has also arranged for multiple briefings by
senior CIA officials from a wide variety of CIA components

_ $86 that the Review Board can better understand the
information it is reviewing. Given the current effective
relationship between HRG and your staff, should you require
additional assurances of this Agency's compliance with the
JFK Act, I suggest that you contact Messrs. Pereira and
 

.

The Honorable John M. Deutch

November 27, 1996

Page 2

The Review Board has recently considered how it, along with the relevant federal
agencies, can best demonstrate to the American public that a thorough, good faith, and

diligent effort has been made to locate and release all remaining assassination-related

records within the control of the United States Government (and that the Government is
not hiding any such materials from public disclosure). Pursuant to the Congressional,
mandate under the JFK Act to “create an enforceable, independent, and accountable.
process for the public disclosure of such records,” 44 U.S.C. § 2107(2)(a)(3), the Review
Board seeks to have the relevant federal agencies provide a complete and specific
accounting of. their efforts to locate and release assassination-related records, including
a full explanation for any destruction of such records. oe
Accordingly, the Review Board requests that each relevant agency adhere to the formal
compliance program (hereinafter “JFK Act Compliance Program”) outlined below and

‘ devised by the Review Board pursuant to its powers under Section 7(j)(1)(A), (B), (C),

(D), and (F) of the JFK Act. We hereby request that you undertake the following
measures by the dates provided (these dates were set in view of the fact that the
Review Board's operations currently are scheduled to expire on September 30, 1997):

 

intent to comply with the JFK Act. We request that by December 9, 1996,
your agency designate an Agency Compliance Official who ultimately will
be responsible for ensuring that the agency has complied -with its
obligations under the JFK Act, including the identification, location, and
organization of assassination records and the transmission of those
records to the National Archives and Records Administration (“National
Archives”). Although the Review Board assumes that Mr. John Pereira or
Mr. Barry Harrelson will serve in this position, we nevertheless await
your formal confirmation. If necessary, your agency may designate
additional persons with knowledge of the measures that have been
undertaken to locate assassination records.

We also request that by December 9, 1996, the agency convey its
agreement to adhere to the compliance procedures outlined in this letter.
To the extent that any compliance procedure described below appears to .
be unreasonable or to present difficulties that we may not have
anticipated, please explain why and make alternate suggestions to us.

2. Initial Statement of Compliance. ‘We request that the Agency Compliance
Official prepare, by January 6, 1997, an initial written statement of the
104-10332-10022 : ; eve JOG ZX S00 BR

 

ER 96~-0455/8
-Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor + Washington, DC 20530

(202), 724-0088.+ Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

 

November 27, 1996 2
The Honorable Johit M. Deutch
Director of Central Intelligence
The Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505.

 

: * 3
Re: The Central Intelligence Agency's Compliance with the JFK Assassination

Dear Mr. Deutch:

Since 1994, the Assassination Records Review Board (“Review Board”) has been
working with a number of Federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency,
to locate and publicly release records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.
These actions have been taken pursuant to The President John F. Kennedy “0 - ---- --
_ Assassination Records Collection“Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994) (EK

. Act”). We have been working with Mr. John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group
and Mr. Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group ¢ of CIA and
have appreciated the cooperation we have received.

The purpose of this letter is to request your agency’s cooperation in assisting the
Review Board in discharging its responsibility of assuring Congress and the American
people that the goals of the JFK Act have been accomplished to the greatest reasonable
extent. We want to assure the American people that the United States Government has
identified, located, and released all records relating to the assassination of President
‘Kennedy. Indeed, one of the paramount purposes of the JFK Act is to certify to the
public that the United States Government is not withholding relevant materials related
to the assassination. See, e.g., Assassination Materials Disclosure Act, H.R. Rep. No. 102-
625, Part 1, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. (1992) (“The Federal Government's failure to release
official materials has contributed to numerous conspiracy theories and fueled charges of
government complicity in the assassination . . .a salutary purpose is served in opening
these files [relating to the JFK assassination ] to allay the suspicion of government
cover-up. “”,

 

Boaro Memaers: John A. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson .
Executive Dinecror: David G. Marwell ‘

 

 
 

The Honorable John M. Deutch
Novembe#27, 1996

Page 3

agency’s compliance with the JFK Act (“Statement of Compliance”),
setting forth the steps that the agency has taken to locate and process
assassination records. The Review Board recognizes that many of the
relevant federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency, have
previously written letters to the Review Board apprising it of their’.
progress at various stages of identifying and processing assassination.
records under the JFK Act. The Statement of Compliance, while it may
include information previously reported to the Board, is to be the agency’s
comprehensive and final report to the American public of what it has
done to locate records relating to the assassination. This Statement of
Compliance shall include, to the fullest reasonable extent, thefollowing
information: .

a. A complete description of all steps that your agency took to
identify and locate assassination records including, but not limited
to, an identification of the major record collections and files that
were consulted in the agency's search, any departmental file
indices consulted, the names and titles of the persons who were
responsible for conducting the searches, the physical locations of
the records that were searched, the off-site storage facilities (e.g.,
Federal Records Centers) searched, the specific steps that were
taken to locate and retrieve materials in archives, and any other
criteria used by the agency to locate assassination records,

b.  Adescription of the steps that the agency took in direct response to .

specific requests of the Review Board to locate certain additional
records or information relating to the assassination. In particular,
we ask that the CIA describe what specific steps it has taken to
address the following requests: CIA-9, Publications and Analytical
Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated March 6, 1996 to Mr.
John Pereira); CIA-11, Silvia Duran’s Original Statement (See David
G. Marwell letter dated May 3, 1996 to Mr. John Pereira); CLA-12,
JMWAVE Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated May 22,
1996 to Mr. John Pereira); for HTLINGUAL records (See T. Jeremy
Gunn Memorandum dated October 1, 1996 to Mr. Barry Harrelson);
and for Monthly Operational Reports on Cuban Exile Groups (See
Manuel E. Legaspi Memorandum dated October 17, 1996 to Mr.
Barry Harrelson).
13-89000

The Honorable John M. Deutch
November 27, 1996

Page 4

Xv
*

c. To the extent that any assassination-related records have been
destroyed by the agency or any agency official, a full and specific
explanation of the circumstances surrounding the destruction of
such records.

d. The status of remaining work that you can now identify that needs
to be completed by your agency in order to comply fully with the
JFK Act, including an identification of the categories of records
that must be processed and transmitted to the National Archives, a
description of any additional searches for files that mizst be done,
and the projected date(s) for completion of these tasks. 3 -

 

Shortly after the submission of the 2 agency’ s written n Statement of
Compliance, we ask that the Agency Compliance Official (as well.as any
persons who helped prepare the agency’s initial Statement of
Compliance) be made available to the Review Board for an interview
regarding the location of agency assassination records. The interview will

be used as an opportunity to resolve any outstanding questions regarding, ss.

the agency's search, including any follow-up tasks to be completed by the
agency. The Review Board anticipates that these interviews will be
conducted in January 1997.

issi ion . By July 1, 1997,
Federal agencies are expected to complete the process of identification,
location, and declassification of its assassination records at which time.
they should submit to the Review Board a final declaration certifying,
under oath, their compliance with the provisions of the JFK Act (the “Final
Declaration of Compliance”). Because of the volume of CIA records, such

a “final” statement may not be practicable at that time. However, we do
expect that CIA will provide a complete status appraisal by July 1, 1997.
This final declaration shall set forth all of the information initially set forth
in the initial Statement of Compliance and shall also supplement the initial
Statement of Compliance by. detailing any further steps-that were
conducted by the agency in identifying and locating assassination records.
The agencies’ Final Declarations of Compliance will be included in our
final report to Congress.
