 

 
 
   
  

 

St SERED

CLOSCCA Vladinir, Ce LAE37527
wires 1:
aft a

All ften- throrrh 1°

 

cD cat Cass Kine, best Gernary . “pte

  

 

 

seh 1903 cone tran cifeig files,

    

Prior te ceteetion. ‘DOU reverted that he was act
not a Veit Ttnort ane ome “Brobaaly reem-ited after assicment te SUth, sis
wife recorted that t before defection he had Been vers: Gerressed anc had.
lost a lot of noney camdling.

   

   
 

? or 3 Ancust 1°®. Leavine wife ane Fanily in frankfurt, he crossed
borcer into cast vermny and requ td Soviet acylem
notional state ani fact of Arny covntermweasures ed by arrest of 5h
arents recently. He also hac parents in Loo, ® 5 received Soviet cit-
izenship some time that sane month, according to a voly 1961 press article,

   

    

 

   

 

expose of Lo sow activities in best Geriany, USwiswa-uarnonger line, etc,
Sane type thine was also mut out in oress releosed at this sane period,

wepteiber 1960, September iseve OF Goles ing (newspaper of the KVR
or Committee for the setirn to the Hon} dy ne ticle supposedly by hin:
his past history anc debriefing on intell wckk duties in Lest Gernany.

 

 

19 “ovenber 1960, His arith
had returned to ne, after his cefection, sailed fron Lencen for venine
grad on the LATVIA to doin hin.

 

o

 

Late ovenber 1°, Their arrival tures hin i
he was edreacy Ravin’ second thor-hts about his cee

° Corsternation, because
en to defect.

 

“ite rerarted by letter to tre Yritish Lnbassy
re he hed been resettled,

Circa Secenber 1°70
Noscot, Th. heating ner cFesence in L'vov, wi

 

   

cly 1961, The thly isene of Vista 2 Ulrainy had an article in the sane
Propapania vein: his past, TL intel activities, etc, Indicated he had teen
“oviet citizen since
that the authorities provided a “uree-eroon flat; Salary over 300 mbles
per month "whieh was qite coad by losal standaitds;" ceemed qvite content
with his lot. Hic parems lived witn thet in 5 we aapirtnent: seven pecnle }
Asaesr

  

 
  
   
  

 
 

che anrlied to the Liyoy aithorittes ror an
el hte. eg fee here ei
Beeb pa, el bie Ae aed heyy Ty Ak,
action on her exit request, by
to Briton in fear or reonisals. fhe called at ArLob ra
hem in on events to dete. Cai¢ he was nov desperate to 1
Yrepardless cf any charges he wi-ht have to faces ut they:

about his beim let out, ecpccially cince he Asd been outsxeken avainst USER,
This is a bit of a chane fron her later Penarks that ne mas happy with his
lot. Aue 6d, bat, . Bel as the ye hy ¢ ;
él warey 1962, !

 

 

   

   
 

 

   
 

 

e@ and s
interdeved in
“pt

   

   

~ Wael £ until 4. etilcren Cut,
tur forei 2N3, mn basis her
Hand 5s Weis. Dike. elds an
. . . i ee 2y
| i ny Y Rta Le . 8 2c/ 29752
.

3 agent, thouch ues

neasens vere pres: mably

27 4urust 1960, Revters reported interview with hin on “osco# TV: usval

wife villisn anc their three chilcren, who

everst 1960 ant was livin, in Livov, Wife later reported

7

MO MAM 6 6 fF Ob Ak eh

  
 

 

104-10181-10049

EX - 786
5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR!

until ca, 1963, The compilations were derived from a variety
of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to Cl
Staff, In most instances, basic information was then abstracted
for the US Defector Machine Program, Inall instances in which
the material wag unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

Orig - CI/MRO ’
1-RD/FI

1 - SB/RMO
1- cuneaf 03
1- CI/R&A ono

SECRET

 

 

ACl. LF7 FR}

 
14-00000

. . ’ . . .
e ‘ f . .
oe SECRET
ce

  

ert and no e‘tizens.in reqvest.
ter Cov document becese o:

 

   
   
 

chiltren »

™ micdle one }
, Ul. passport, che hed received 2ovict exitereentyy

ang cid net tell then that she planned not to returns

   
      

viss valic for 90 days

2) auevst 1862, A British Enbassy_rerresentative ealled on nin in i'vov,
where ne vas alvin; with oldest child. Cine re was ticcle child? énd youncest,
if aidn't ecconpany mother to ing land?) He "had teen suojected to fairly fre
quent questionings by the HCD in Lvov since he visite. the bubassy in soscow
@ few months 270. An_Anerican acquaintance “no -ms ia a similar position
to his own [Detkaniez?) anc had visited the american Lapass:, had been taken
off for questioning the KGB invediately on ‘ad the building.”

Ly)

 

 

19 Sarch 1963. sife was interviewed by [IACtaRjJet talitax, England, where é
living wita notier. omewhat an-aconistic t6 interviewer and told aim she
had now deciced ratxemzkaxx2 it her dvty te return to the USSR and felt that
they would l<t her. itysband had wired saying he sending oldest chilo out to
her, but she had wired back saying not to. It was at this interview that she
Said he had seemed content with his lot, aopearea like job as tramezatury ,
translator/librarian at L'vov Polytechnic Institute, and seemed like living
with his parents,

 

SECRET

ay
