74-0000

 

that eng mail adérassod te ©

; pont musbey Lo egver ads

 

 
 
  
 
  
  

Ny the rottonal parents of
piitteata intleates they roaided at 54
cotta, Thera (os no nunter 54 on
The site f3 oseunt:
trpangacanta have been rate to provide
SALALSEY or hie parents at Glenville Avenue
will ts re-directed to a poct of fice tox gatabl ished and serviced ty.
this offi¢e at Postars th tan ae

 
 

tatty F

Slerville Avarne ,
Glonville Averes in a bos 3h
nous of valch ts punter is

 

 

ba he addres 609 *s

ant spartnent
5S none ab this address th ouch 31 Cotlober

 

hag Leow ranted in PARA

    

LEC, and mall adtreased to hha oe his rotionsl paren a wll be
acess atod, IS 16 da: fed that too whould ka rctatoed

           
  

rig offies should ba provided v witht an tle
ditfouah rental paynowia, videk will t

4 ‘red ad forty dollera (3149.) per wouth, we
TARANINI'S nace Is considared imnendes -

fer 31 Coteter 1941,

apptoxiuetely one bs
retention of the az

 

* gary, thts offica wil oe 9 8 forwarding proeaare to Teniirect
_ ang wall to a post office tox at © “ew York City, upon sdvice from your

CFL Lem

% in vespocas to your inquiry ag ta what dispostticn would
novanlly be seta of foratin call vhich 3a undeliverabls teesuze of an
irearregt adres sivtaad that Incal cost office stutiond

spt to detorcine Lf there ig a lozal ecorrest address
for the edtvaasoa iy checking loa, direetorica, se thay vill ce with

 
 

 

mall of domatioc orlging Pesala mail vhteh fs incarrectly addressed

4s considered "usteliverable', and ig returned to the country of
eriging with no attest to Soterntne the correst addracs,

8, In acecrfacce vith tha request contained in peragrar ath tye of
your referenced nenorintus, the following post office adiress hag teen
established for your wacs _ :

 

 

 

and

 

“ crtee wil 9 tified ¢ ueon tha 3 re cop hpt ot any
nail thre oh this vest orfica Lory st. through any of tha arrangennts
mate a% Docten, Uow York, Clovelands jor Taltinord..

O°

 

CR INS DPECTOR GF STOUT Ys

eos 43816 a
wyseeeee) Ah etcae By hate

od by apartannt housed, —

: ntygats Beg York G4t Lys a srp3args OB
TALL AK'S- deourentation ca his oun ont adivead, A wae 4
 

   
  
    
   
       
   
  
   
    
   
        
      

 

Acting Chiat, Counter Intelligence. Staff OU Cetoter iste:

Deputy Uireotor of Security (Investigations and Support)

  
 

Fropect iene

 

2. 2efersnce Le mate to your memoranda cuted 6 October 1960 -
uhich requaated this office to take appropriate aotion ta attenpt to -
_ intsrespt any letters sent from Cuba to the ostenaible parents ef the |

‘threes poreons presently fomrigoned by Cuban authoriticwe 0 Us 4

 
   
  
     

“Be Th the case of “Aldred and Mantel CASWELL, the roblonal .
yerants of Tantel Ly SAUGISLY, their addrasa ap Listed on hie birth

.: gertifieste isi Ssonaylvania,. drrangemints have bien made
|. 6 provida that any Sell addracsead te CARSNELL at ° Deamity Tee *

 

“ress originally eetablished ty this office far
EURSMLG at Tastehestor, New Yorks This address appears ag hia -”:
. @rrent residence adéresa ou his drivarg Liew-se and other dooumontas,-

_ thors . rs a os aS

 

 

a 3e Tastace ant Cledya DANERUSE, 2955 Tndora Averan, Clovnlond,
:., Unto, are listed ag parents on the birth cartificx
'.. Bustece 4, DARLAUWT. Te has teen éetorained that there fs no Endora

 

   
     
 

 

oP at ; . .
, , Bxtore, Avenue or Pndora Road will be intercepted and delivered to a
” Feprésestative of this offloa, i Se STs

 

  

4. DAMRUMT's drivers Meente ant ether dooumntstion Mist 3915
Rolfisld Avenna, Talttwre, laeyland a9 his current aresa, An empty
apartment hag beon lated ta the nang of LANEQUNT at thts acdresty”.-

- which can ba retained enly util such tirs an ths managesent obtaing — _
: tesrcat under a longterm lease. It may ba axoceted thet: .
the anartnont will be rented during the next worth, at which tina’.
arrrarezenta will te mata te forvard ang pall for CANGRUNT oy his~ -
parents to a poat offica tox suteblinhed ant eerviced by thid office
at Baltivura, Moryland, . : eS

  

  
     
