 

 

 

 

Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum)
DPOB: 15 July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

1. Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillait, a
member of Brigade 2506 whe was captured during the invasion
and returned to the US in the Deeenber 1962 prisoner
exchange.

2. FOWLER apparentiy returned te Cuba with his parents
during his early life and returned to the US to attend
echel in his late teens. He attended the Lenezx Scheol,
Lenox, Massachusetts, 1046-49; Louisiana State University
1946-51. After his graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba
and married Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13
August 1933, Brusseis, Belgum. FOWLER was President of
the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until
he returned to the UB in November 1960 and enlisted in
Brigade 2606. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark
FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,
and former US Ambassador Wilifam D. PAULEY, as references.
Following his release from prieon FOWLER worked for the

father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm
Beach, Florida, until at least late 1964. He apparently
lest his US citizenship during his years of residence in
Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance
parole status in November 1964 while he was still employed ;
in W. Palm Beach. He apparently returned to Louisiana
gonetime after that date. FOWLER's mother lives in Coving-
ton, Louigiane, and he has a sister who is married to Fort
PIPES, Jr., momber of a prominent New Orleans family.
 

 

 

*

Carles QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)

Subject is possibly identifiable with Carlos QUIROGA,
a former student at Lousiana State University who was a
candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program. This
involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would
return to Cube as agents in place. JMWAVE traces reflect
an individual of the same name wae an electrical engineer,
residing at 3134 Derby Blase, New Orleans, in December 1964.
Subject reportedly had homosexual tendencies, low morals,
and until the middie of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter
and made anti-UB statements. There ia no indication that a
Carlee QUIROGA was every employed by the Agency in any
capacity.
 

 

 

 

Eailio SANTANA (paragraph 7 C of reference mexorandus)

DPOB: 7 Sept 1935, Cardonas, Matanzas, Cuba
(alse reported 7 Sept 1936 and 7 Sept 1937

2. Subject is probably identifiable with Emilio SANTARA
Gdlinde, whe was recruited by JHWAVE in December 1960 as a
guide for an infiltration team. SANTANA was paid a monthly
ealery under provisions of his BOC until he was terminated
on 165 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team
became inoperable due to occupation of the target area by
Seviet technicians. Another compelling reason for SANTANA‘'s
termingtion stemmed from his untruthful reporting concerning
certain aspects of the team operations.

2. In an attempt to establish positive identification,
SMWAVE obtained a report from the Dade County (Miami)
Sheriff'a office that an Emilio SANTANA (mo matronymic)
bern 6 July 1936 in Cabs, was declared a’ fugitive fron
Louisiana on e federal warrant 22 December 1965, FBI Sheet
13832877, based on two counts of burgiery in Louisiana. —

We was arrested and booked by the Dade County Shoriff’s
effice on 2 Februsry 1966 and was presumably sent back te
Louisiana. At the tige of his arreat SANTANA gave his
address as 851 SW 4th Street, Miami, which is the same
address shown on an old immigration frm when he waa

living in Miami. Headquarters files indicate SANTANA is
separated from his wife whe apparently still resides at

the old Miami address. Since SANTANA’s date of birth varies
om various decuments in his 201 file, the variation in birth
date on his arrest sheet is not conclusive. The fact he
did give his former addreas to the arresting officers
indicates ho ig Emilie SANTANA Galindo. A 1962 immigration
form includes a photograph which could be obtained from
JHWAVE for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.

3. Although JHMWAVE has had no contact with SANTANA
since his termination, there ig a note in Station files
dated 23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as his
employer on an auto credit application.
 

 

 

Edvard 8. BUTLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of reference nonerandun)

é

Ta January 1965 Subject’s organimation (INCA), &
the New Orleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after
her arrival in the US. INCA had a particular interest in
Mies CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contah-
ing Mise CASTRO's declaratiens on eb i surfaced ir

  

  

 

 

 

Mexico. A JMWAVE asset, who is
handled the planning and AaNgEHoNts IGF the Now Orleans
visit with INCA officials. The only subsequent contact
between the JEWAVE asset and Edward BUTLER eccurred when
BUTLER was recently in Miami promoting the INCA film on
“CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA". See Attachment 2 for a summary
of the INCA organization.

 
   
 

 

 

 

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclesure 6 of reference momorandum)

Carlos BRINGUER is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER
Esposito, a former rember of Brigade 2506 who was captured
Guring the invasion. The personal history statement in
Juan BRINGUER’s 201 file states his brother Carlos, a lawyer
in ioeo! was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Lrosto10s-0rgt]

 

SECRET/RYBAT
WH/COG 67~194
MEMORANDUM FOR: ADDP
: C/CI/R & A (Mr. Boeca)
SUBJECT s Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination
| REFERENCE 3 CI/B & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1067
|

 

1, In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations

Group has endeavored to provide all available information on

: individuals and organizations requested im paragraphs &, 6 and

! 7 of reference. Attachment 1 contains ba ‘ound information
and biographic data on individuals obtained from WH/COG and
JMWAVE files. Attachment 2 summarigeg the background informa-

. tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in
paragraph 6 of reference:

2. WH/COG will continue to review all material that may.

{ contain information pertinent to this subject and will forward
f such information to CI/R & A on a priority basis. %
|

Attachment 1
Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2
Background summary of FRD, DRE, INCA

 
 

' Banister

 

 

@ttackment 2.

Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 of reference monorandus)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba
b

1. Traces on ABCACHA do net reflect the date he first
arrived in the U.8. However, he became the FRENTE EEVOLJ-
CIONARIO DEMDCRATICO (FRD) delegate in Rew Gricans prior
te the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that postdion
until the FRD ceased to function. The FRD was the
of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUSCIL, end was organised. and
supported by the Agency. ‘The organisation was used ae a
front for recruitment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion.
During this period ARCACHA reported te the FRD eee
in Miawi through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

reportedly maintained extensive relations with the Hew .
FBI and Immigration offices. Two of hia reguiar ‘
FBI contacts were a lie. De Bruce and the deceased Guy -

 

3. ARCACHA was algo one of the prosoters ef the :
FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FBC) which vas incorporated
in Rew Orleans on 6 January 1961. Thia organization was
estensibly created by several New Orleans business and
political figures, including the deceased former FBI agent,
Guy erent elf to collect money te aid Cubans im their
fight against.Communiem. According to the articles of
incerporation, these donations would also be used to support —
the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,
leas a percentage to be rotained by the FRC. An investi-
gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded
that the FDC was organized strictly for the persenal gain
of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of
ARCACHA. The investigation preduce@ ne evidence that any
individual donations were ever solicited er received and
recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the
beoke of the New Orleans Exporters Company be investigated
for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of
federal tax evagien, since both the president ef the Kew
Orleans Exporters Company, Gerar@ F. Tunague, and the Chief
of Kew Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were
officials of the Fp¢C. Approximately one month after the
FoC was created, strong criticigm from some prominent Cubans
put the organization out of business.

3. Information in an immigration card reflects that
ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venesmola at an unspecified
date. His address in Venezucla was HOTEL THUNA, Caracas,
and his US address was listed as 4523 Dupplesses Street,
Hew Orleang. Passpert He. 00433.
 

 

4. Background infermation on the PRC and ARCACHA's
connection with the organization was ferwarded to the FBI .
im CBCI-3/764, 414, dated 30 March 1061. Other couress of
the gbove guamery of inforaation on ARCACHA are; DBF-G¢056,

is January 1061: DRY-91789, 11 Geteber 1061; DBF-82355, 218
October 1962; CSCI-316/-S737-85; and UFGA-929, 22 February

 
