 
 
 
 
 

 

C PRET (
a SEGRE] “ pst vata Ags eney

AB aes
ce RichardEi Snyde OB: 10 December 1919,

}:applied for employment with CIA in
evel ond a complete ‘PHS form at that

   

). According to his e
(see tab c) he was S assigned to" OPC,
$6 serve i the file contains n¢cé
Ne

the actua iy served qt inte

While in Germany he apparently resigne
26 September 1950 in order to assume

   
 

 
   

   
   

 

HICOG. There are no further entri
file. The SR Division, however, has i

on him (see tab d). That file shows that Nelsey “BRICKHAM,

an SR Division staff employee, was in contact ‘with SNYDER

for about one year (1956-1957). BRICKHAM used SNYDER

as a spotter at Harvard where SNYDER was studying Russian
and had access to other students who might be going to the

USSR. There is no record of POA, OA or CSA action in that
connection. In March 1959 (probably just before SNYDER's
departure for Moscow), State requested that he be given two
weeks of the OBS Course’ ‘(probably ORR's training in Soviet,
Order of Battle). Brick ister Agency

(pet -\72533% at “
d. Edward Fhe: Was never an employeé o. f CIA. :

He has been an employee of the Department of State since
1941 and has served Givarious countries. In 1952, while a
‘with the State Department in Rome,
son clearance"! on him; the clearance

 

  
 
  
   
 

L eowsls cancelled. From September
( )Bivision officials were in official
& eee of his position at the Department
ade purpose IO requested and received
co 'é from the Office of Security. In addition,
the Office © ais file contains the following record of
interest an clearance action concerning FREERS:

 

April 1957
April 1958
August 1958
August 1959

January 1962

ee

EVES GMLY

 

Qud2tt8 ne 2/86

PACE 15) ot Lf

COPY NO.
7

 

(rod-t00s7-10t26 -
ie *

  
  

Document Number 60 ~fB6

 

SECRET

Ware ad Bike (

itis a
Qa 936 Ty)

a -

 

  
   
 
    

 

RETURN TO CIA
. ind Use Only
s (80 Not Reproduce

.

Chi fy CUR&A

  

MEMORANDUM
} :

SUBJECT:

 

 
   
   

Ke QW Vruary 1964 the Ni ,
artitle (sé SS b a) alleging ~- among other things --

Depart aE records show that OSWALD had sever,
the CIA representative in the US embassy in Mo: , Di
period, the assassin was seeking to renounce his izens

State Department cable, No. 234, dated November 2, 1959, reports
that OSWALD was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials."

2. This allegation is absolutely unfounded as the following facts

 
   

 

bear out: i
a. The article cites a State Department "cable"
No. 234, dated 2 November 1959,. Such "cable'! probably :
does not exist; however, the State Department despatch,
No. 234, dated 2 November 1959, from the US Embas sy i
= in Moscow. is no doubt the one which the article intended
= to cite That despatch carried the security classification i
= "Cong enna". (See tab b). : |
5 he That de
2 Rat\Richa aE. Snyder, the Second Secretaxs :
2 oes "Moscow, who talked with oswa
fed S Det gues, has CIA connection. Sny& are
ESS © e of a person mentioned wi on ;
ins WALD. The only other U xen
3 entioned in that State Dense or Sed de gp

Edward L, Freers who signed the désp, te)
ec Atfaiz ss ad interim. cman —
RESTNICTED TOG

Grou 1 | Z
Excluded tram automatl: : i
i A !

| “ececalation | I7- Nar 1. MEY |
: DO-2ITLEY

 

EVES BaLY. SECRET

 

guae4 dr’?
14-00000. -

\qHantl whethor the individual of this

:@ ste

 

ro)
BYES Oly

3.. The original article containing the subject allegation was
_ written by Robert is ALLEN and Paul SCOTT. ALLEN is a former
associate of Drew SON's. The article has been replayed in
various. publicati hich carry the ALLEN-SCOTT articles. Many
of the replays Pp ear to have deleted the citation of the State Depart-

ment en Among’ tl the publications carrying the allegation i in its .

 
    
  
 

 

  
   

oublighee issue of Human Events (see tab e) which is
mage ‘on, D.C. The publisher is one James L. WICK
* ao as furnished adverse information. The founder of
onwas Franf’C. HANIGHEN. According to the FBI &P*°”
gute SHEN mber of the "Intelligence Committee" of the CP USA.
‘ in PEA : :

 

vo,

4, ALLEN's and “SCOTT'S aifacks on CIA are ae
tenet

have been persistent. In December 1961 Col. Grogan wr
to the DCI concerning both of them. In May 1962, C/ cre
memorandum to the Office of Security and attached re

       

concerning these two.men (see tab f). A surface sb

articles written by this duo shows that they nave whe shi

Mr. Dulles whenéver ‘the opportunity has presenté tel. He recent
article shows that they are still at it: in connection wit - Dulles'

service on th

  
   

é xren'Commission, they accuse him of displaying
typrote ctivehess regarding the CIA". The Office of Security

 

Original - Mr, Rocca w/atts
1 - C/CI/SIG w/o/atts
l- Security w/o/atts

   
 
 
   
  

Fetes

x Poms

3. Frank -c, RANIGHEN — - Mr. Pepi was- asked on an urgent ba

ane described in a Bu a :

net dated 7/4/44, subject, "Lily er Davins", a menber oft gepat

War me telligence Committee of the GPUSA, could be identical 1th a
i. ae if the Hung Events/nagazine, Mr. Papich sore > ta

Lt a fa re were alYegations of Commi ge

4 : ing. the Pounder of the mag pas

     
   
  
  

 

  
 

 

Oud2419
