74-0000

 

i 5 ‘ i *
cca! D5-2572
Payl
v.38. orricics ONLY Corr 2

Bawag 2.7 . Page 35

76, Source monioned that a lostor %,20, a Japanese Communist Party weber, wae |:
ements enn eed 7

ew.

iting “AV'LY AET's Liver ailment.
tentacle
. eresexo Hat 929
=X. SENT raced! wis su2gested to Source as a Lar.ruaro teacher! As fis

Sf. (see below), and Scu-ce Later rocriited hin Xa: agent. “hen Source went back

ae

@ 3532 is. tes er 1SL6, he turmed YXSUINS over to LIAIGI7, who in tans passed him

. ee . .
PU. Shen eCy in turn went beck, in September 1952, YOGHINC was retucred to Source
ardling. :

74, L0RRT

 

a% with the dapanese Aissicn i Hardin and is row employed Sy the

m Jitsupys 3... Tre Joviots belicwec .1 he ras an agent Tor the Jeparess Police,

ve WAR Ae se os ace 2) CRE EAUA (AS Kea @5 bins QUaLaty of bre nugsLaNn an whigr if was

2] was poser; oe -seportad onie!ly om Jcsslins, shite ant fo Levset, in Texgot= Ee was
salary of $59,000 par ccna. .
i course hs thres‘eut-aqntes

tay Gow 2. 3 painter at Joknson air Force ase, who received ¥5,00 of

 

“YOR O's salary. Ho-has submitted full plans of connson Air Sase and
ences submitted simeograph stencils of secret travel orders.
<b) 0: va), 8 oraftemn at Tachikawa Air Force Sass, who received ancther
« ¥5,002 of YOSHINO's s:lary. Ye bs subritted plans of Tachiinwa Air Sase

end oace brought in treat aids designed to be csed with stadert traine

 

dng 2ircraft, His informtioa war considered inferior. (TOTIIA) has 8
‘wifs, age about 40, who is believed to be either a dressmaker or a tdilor

: running a shop near Tachikawa dir Psse. a
te) Keaseaa), employed in the Custom Office at the Port of sobel*2 4
eee oe TRE - .

- (1A TAMA) has provided charts ani eounding data on Sobe harbor. He stays

with SCJRTHO when he comes to Josyo. e.
INO hie bret suved until last among tho” Japanese sponte, since he ‘s helf Pussian
sipculavos among the Russians treated below (“ditor),

:

ably of tue Japanese language (Béitor), an :

leact one occasion YOSI'IND alse reported on @ Mission nenber == ser, and
slations with Musa ans.

 
 

 

104-10176-10013

tthee Pilled fa}
eect

    
   
 
    
   
     
     

SV@2E2T OF COCUMENT
SLLIGENCE
2 (Yuri RASTVOROV) Report

      

  

Ce Ge SOURCE BGC. SYMBDL HO.
y fat 18 Feb, 54

OCCUMEST OFSPOS IT ION

32. TeaNSsEmatL TO
at Fie nO.

    
  

   
 

 
 
  
    
 

|

ACFERRED F. TwIs fERe

SHINO, fae Mr ariuo

 

Gate eeocdsseD

 

 

PERTINENT INE CRM AT ION

Transmitted herewith are eight (8) copies of FieldInterrogation Report
mntaining information from DS-2072. It is recommended that these
nts be distributed as follows :

FE

REDSOX
REDCAP
Registry

NN NA

One cspy of this report is being transmitted to local ODOPAL. It is not
‘lated that this report will be disseminated in its entirety to any other non-
Cunit although it will probably be shown to interested officials of ODACID.
advise you of any further fuii or partiat dissemination of this material.

/s/_ Robert C. DAMIEN
mtelligence Officer

 

‘ield Interrogation Report Number I os
i February 1954.

sure
HU: _Intetligence Operations -- Specific

“GLE THIS FORA. if FILE

 

SECRET

 

ayeaan

   

 

1

ee
 

   

hs . .
Ye. § FFG TIALS OULY - pane ;

"POY’SECRET ha

= Page 36
. U.S. orriciAls 0) .
«, 80. Taso aleo recruited his wife's bret‘er, & Jazin Conmuist *erty emberiZ
ee
Uwe was piven ¢ sno CTT TU INO wae given $56,000 to race the °

em the osfe mares (TAKA), 22 16 SoG.
meruitneat. (Tau) ts ‘ bookkeeper ard works cr she disen ‘aru, shieh used bo run be-

“wesr Japan and india byt poseibly now plies b-t.zen Japan and tha United States. (TAM)
23 seserved for enecpency use aa a courier anc has not usen used to datet@%

JAPAN COMIUL ES!

 

- SL. y (208)! Fg at iversa many dovewents to .°T L'ITAW congerninr negotiations between

-xlles ant Yoshida. bires, ECS Gal mes receiv < envelopes from the farty which i270
+43 Grantlaced the opdirazy cP inisliivence re crte, does not ace,

@?, Soures translate? sore decumeats reec-ivea from the ?arty from creliah tnta
“.esudanz sevzral o.‘ tbe>, which concerned ter. wrflare preparations by the Americans,

a ae

“mires baltevad fanziceted and 90 infsewed 3

 

XV. Jource renmvers another document

 

.
i

 

 

 

we mb alligense activities af the American mb 4s7 in Capang it atabed that almost all

’

"nnass officials were soles and order:d tha v.

  

Tease ivesnment about. Source and
Sorat

 

  

STL iECVY a-read that tis JOP intel: zence ws: 7 little value, as conte:
Ai, Ker L'NIRV cautioned members of fae Jiaaicn nevap tdé tell (Cr mecbers that the

TEssion ins cihhes intelligence chamnels ard a-cme.
i OcSR (TOTAL Soba ors

et. Svuurce knew of ‘wo liorth Sorean agents inaws unknown). cra came to the Fission

aay
. -r
accut June 1953 and asked for money; <EIUTTSIN interviewed him ant gave hin $45,000,127
S aaneeanE

ose other cave at atout the sane tine with the saze recuest, Sut was unsuccessful because
the arrangeracte “went astrey*.

Uz} Elsewhere Source visas Yo XA) is only’ a UCP rrepathiser. .

4. 84 YOSHIND and all bis contacts teve
4 kmalodge of them (Dtiter).

   
 
 
 
  

   
  
 

       

mer af yon Sy
aie”. saat wth wrote thi) encalick wo ae eres ae Party
re Ee ran. The JCP inforsation was uesally written 08 rice paper’ in ami blue tree

° ‘Eaurce)

seg e cotton is ‘ay ccalaia Lstter

    

ae* the enyelorn cds:
a:

ed

 

cor inital Ligares

 

“Ue fare gets gunoecte! that this “rth dereaa sia in the employ of Az
.f ares:
Va dogs nth spc ly
the “ission os crether instructions from tie center were Fequest«d aftar he mde his.

visit.

 

ss states tht this we "t 443 “pre-arrarnqea’ wit the Center.
vhether the acerincerart -s wade vetore the ". -orsar first, wisiter e«

 
   

  
74-00000

= TOP SECRET

et ers

OONTZLL/U.S.CY7ICIALS CHLY DS-272 -
‘ComTROL PIAL
U.8. OFFICIALS ONLY Copy A>
B. SCYZETS AND WHITE RUSSIANS Page 3g

 

~ . .
87. Efin VOEVODIM has been useful to the Sovieta as a spotter, although
nn ll

: “tex suspect hin of being an American egent; he hag many Anerican friends, Es

 

‘ 4s thus not used as an agent. VCEVODIN suggested both Ysnio Matsuo (atove) ard
* er

Fs . .
" XM uresza (below) as Soviet azents. r ton ‘
: . es 127
e - 88, Ancther Soviet involved in YOSHIKC's case was RUSANOV (RADIST), who .
. nen

s. reported YOSHTRO to be a Police informant but elso supplied the information tat he
»
t was extremely anti-Americen, which led the Center ta direct his continued use.
*

RUSAMDY was originally @ Ze4 Army officer but, fled the USS2 in 1939 and came to Japan.
At the beginning of the Occupation RUSASCT voluntarily confessed his escape ta the
Mission and asked for repatriation, but the Mission considered hin more valuable as

TtU tert et et enn da tenn cmd he sn menendted ae ensh We NTCTUAY, Pe one,

 

however, rewarded by being accorded (secretly) Soviet citizenship in 1945, RUSANOV's
128 :
current case officer is SAVSL'YZV , SUSANOV receives about ¥20,0C0 per month from

the Soviets. Cne of his scurces, the one from whom be received tha information on

129
=< yasumo, ao aasM '
. MII INO, AESEE

 

89, Another Soviet citizen agent mubritting inforration on the “wssian colon
in Japan is Boris ATAN3SI“T, who w.s recrutted and bas been handled by GA¥il'Yav. In
one instance he spotted another Soviet agent, a sepanese living near his forwer resi -
dence on LOth Street, in Ickyo, who was an engineer for én-American contracting firm.
The Japanese had been a prisoner of war in Amsrican hands and was strongly anti-
dxerican, alleging that the Americans had mistreated him. His fing was engaged in

‘military construction wrk for the security forces on Ckinswa, and the-Japanese submitted

127, Pa sO ae an alias, taken when this mon fled the U3S2. He cane
dapan in 1 with PRTLIN (below,. He has overtly been anti—Commnist and re=
- ported that the Soviets refused tim citizenship (Files).

126 SAVEL'YRY now es all Russian informants for the Soviets (Source).

c . -

‘4 129 Yard Appolunovich Cecaansrstinet-te-e—uhite Sussian Living in Tokyo; he was an

Ps officer in the Csarist Army, He is an active member of the sluss. tional Unter

; (anti-Soviet) in Japan (Piles). .

oy . - * !

a . : :
: 3 .

+ : <1 SECRET :

t CONTSOLAUS OFPICIALS CHLT to,

TRS. OFFICIALS ONLY - ;

 
