74-0000

eo

SECRET

13 Ame 1964

SUBJECT: Recemtact of Gliverio A, TOME’ Yasslie. (362-2839206)

4, At. 1730 Bours, & Juse 64, the undersigned was advised
at hie residence that a Mr. TOSEU (Subject) had called the —
security aumber given him (351-6161) and left the meseage that
he would Lise to tala sgaim with Paul Stroud (the undersigned) .
angtine after 120% houre, & June,

2, Upon arriving at TOMM's apartment (Apt. 363, 1028
Vahler Place SR, High Poiat Apartment Howse, tashington, D. C.),
2830 howre, 8 dune, TOHEU iecicated te bis two daughters be would
like te have sone privacy and they sad kia wife, Caridad, left
he apertuca’ .

 

   

 

to
apolog Poe. E lied the name .
. ae that of He reiterated
a) @ im hiding ta eicape capture By the Cuban Goverment

@ubsoquent to his infiltration, he knew only the firat aszee of
with whom he came in contact, but thea added he xnew

 

 
 
 
 

 

:  Chese fadividuals, knowa to TOMET onl:
tea

 

one of hie infiltration tean.

Oa several scearions, accoréing to TOMES, he wag seated

: 4.
at the table ta Ana's house with several other people, Cue of

ee “COCO,” wan deocribed

  
 

e
eng discussions in

ee ect avare of any relatioaehip. bet raat CT we

&
a3 TURRG bad se isforeetion aw ¢o what finally happened

 

 

 

 

eo Bio dagiltration team mate, he suggested
@hat af( eve available they usy be sble to
Sdeneagy “CoCo” a ide date on hie acaeseability for
enatsat. . :

«Be Ome Cael COMRALES, former Chief of the Havana Fire
Separtwent, wee identified by TOHEU a0 ancther possible lead

sot FREE]

oe alg pg ENE Rah speach ma ite ett

 

») da whose house he wae hiding, because ake. —

 

 

a tg 0 mee

 

 
 

[toetozartoran)

26 dume 1064

request, gna Lt. Oliverio
TOMES Vaealle was recontected
64 at bis plase of resid-

 

 
 

 

0 eno te a

SECRET

~2-

who would knoe oer TOWKD affirmed Csiel was previously
with HENOYO Gutierrez in the second Front of Escanmbray. Omiel
wae under asylum in the Brazilian kmbassy (sic,
Esbassy?), when TULEU gsined political asylum,
finally received hie safe conduct from the umbassy, he weat
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel i# now agein
with MEWOTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico,

Argentine —
ahem Usiel

6. To saap shots (to be returned) were provided by.
TOMLU of biuself and six other individuals whe were in soylun
at ¢ , dn the photograph ina
whic is seated, us, from
lege Eats ) Oliverio TOMEU, [—
(believed to be ; C) % (U3), Jorge Del” VALLE

7), and Oviel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

 

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Strovd and TONEY
“exchanged 3ma11 talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated
that he still wighed there was something more he could de to
belp free Cuba, and asked "What do you think I should do?“
Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of

@eciaioa for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEG.

ehat alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the
US Army as @ career ailitary officer,

TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an

3. .
agricelturalist, but that thera were few job opportunities: in
which be could apply his past experience. His. sister had also

esked him if he felt he and bis family would want to live with
ber ia Spain or Mexice, but he didn’t think too much of this.
idea, He then stated that he had been asked. by Manuel ARTIME.
<@ take & job as an instructor, Without indicating any
asucciation of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of
ABTINE’s contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201),
FOMEY was asked what he thought of ARTINE's proposition, .
TOMEY stated that he would no longer follow Any MER am 28
dudividual.or as a leader, because a man's Adeala, outlook,
aad objectives change with tine, For example, the people of —
Gabe followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated, When
Fadel took over, hic aeconplisiasnts: graguakly beoawe quite :
Giiferent from the ideals be had espoused. TOMEU continued
by saying he would “no longer follow a man, One could only
trust hie ideale or an organization which followed these
ideale, since a good organization would-be lese likely of-

being controlled by a gingle man." When saked for an example

of the type of organization he had in mind,. TOMEU replied he
Was most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of
the JURE, (The JURE or JAC ie an organization created by
Bapolo RAY Rivere eround @ nucleus of former. 26 duly Movement.
leaders, Gee nemo and sttachsent dated 23 July 1963 from Johe
ugh Crimmina, Coordinator.of Cuban A

af State in TOMEU's 201-263206. )

  

ie mene

 
74-0000

eo rr’ ’

: SECRET
~$- : {

@. %I¢ should, perhaps, be noted here that in ag informal

exchange with Mre. Domald WEBSTER, TOMEU's supervisor at the ‘
Defense Laaquage lnastitute, Anacoatie Naval Annex, 4 June 64, .
Sra, UEBSTMR volunteered the information that. “ell of the other '

*‘Beigede students here’ have told me they think very hiyaly

of TOMED, emd that he is - very brave man, because he and his

family were very wealthy im Cuba and he gave it all up to go i
4 inte exile and fight the Castro Regine.” . . ,

 

i
*
t
