74-00000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obtained selected letters

 

 

from a subagent

 

 

 

 

2. Coverage:

coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

 

the nature of the at that time. The Mexican Direction

 

 

 

 

 

of Federal Security (DFS), was a hip-

 

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of
wee Leel

s+, and corrupt. |]

   

foreigners. Their agents were

 

 

 
74-00000

 

 

LTENVOY , | The listening post had 30 lines

 

 

 

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by

 

 

In 1961, because of mismanagement

 

 

| _|the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:
In mid-1962, the |LIENVOY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

 

 

 

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

 

bassies in | The Station immediately

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

 

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

 
14-00000

"processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

' Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated: strictly on an ‘experimental

basis. in the early stages. This base, “however, was. closed when the Sta-

“tion | received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was
"being released by the: Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo- We
. graphic base. It was ‘located in an upper story of an apartment building
. 7 on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middle of .
‘the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the. Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a
row of four houses on the south side. of ‘the Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked the back: garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The te

; purpose of this operation was to get good. identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from. the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de- -—
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station’ but in early @s9, due to the resig-

7 nation of a ‘technician, this Film Vike that. of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

SECRET SENSITIVE

 
74-0000

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1... Unilateral Coverage:
‘From the time the Mexico Station was opened (in April 1947\until
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station lin 1955, jthe Station had .

- developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
‘Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline
. phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

‘

mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were. placed by {

|handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

 

 

 

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post
nearby and the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-_
American recruited agents.
Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer

assisted by technicians on TOY from Headquarters who advised the Station

on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC ©
_ and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en~-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

E2, IMPDET
ChPRTT ENGINE arom
cr a Tanguage other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the trans} ations .
usually. ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him- ;

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the a

. Station started screening art _ Photographs. However, here ‘again,- there
was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week:
. but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the —
* technician who was processing the film, did so ona night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not.made initially until a complete rol of. -
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator. cleared the camera
at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused. Film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to.
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur. but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dife
ficulties. ,
. Oswald came ‘to the attention of the, -Tistening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet Vine. iit was picked uP and “taken to, Mr. Boris

; .

SECRET /SENSITNE

 
 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak ‘in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personne} waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. AT] transcripts were made in
either Spanish or English’ since the. Chief of Station could read only

these two Tanguages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads 4

 
ye-00009

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double Taned

, street on: the southeast corner of ‘that: block. - , (See attached diagram).

LIMITED + was the first photo base and. operated strictly on an experimental

> basis in the early. stages. This base, however, _was closed when the Sta-

tir

tion received word that the photograph of. the: "unidentified man" was

‘being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC, was an alternate photo-

_ graphic base. It was located in an, upper story of an apartment. building

on ‘the: same side of the street’ | as the LIMITED ‘site but in the middle of.

‘the block. south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet .

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of- a oo,
row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound. |
This site ‘overlooked the back garden of ‘the Soviet Embassy compound. The -
purpose of this operation was to get. good identification photographs of
Soviet personne}. The three photographic sites were managed by a rev
cruited agent who was a Mexican. citizen, the son of an American mother ~

and Mexican father. (deceased). “This agent cotected the film from the

LIMITED | and LILYRIC sites three times a week. » The itm was then de- -
“veloped and printed / jinto 8 x 10 contact. print strips. LICALLA fil was |
originally processed in the Station but in early (Tis) due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED. and LILYRIC was

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent,

Es]

 
 

oesoos-002] Co. : :

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage:
From the time the Mexico Station was opened {in Aprik 1947) 1947) until
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station{ in| 1955,\,the Station had |
“developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline
' phone taps, three photographic sites, ‘a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

 

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed xs ov

i

 

 

 

 

' who was, handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

 

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post .

 

__ nearby and the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican- 7
American recruited agents. ,

. Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
‘operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC

— and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

Fare t ey Ven ae apt+ CE InEL = EL BY 008645
CLPRET REMIT
74-0000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

‘These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

: could be activated, by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of

"interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED Photographs for.

identification purposes.

 

The Station also conducted af nail intercept operation,
” LIBIGHT, which was handled by an “American case officer.

 

 

 

 

| bbtained selected letters

 

 

 

 

 

from a subagent|

2. Coverage: : - a ;

 

 

 

 

 

Was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the at that time. The Mexican Diréction .

 

 

 

of Federal Security (DFS),

 

- ‘pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government.

was a hip~

This Ministry

-was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were vinleece lL, | and corrupt.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
7 » SECRET/SENS®,
} cama | | The listening post had 30 ines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In 1961, {because of mismanagement by

the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

 

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
- post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. ‘There was also

an American technician inside the. listening post. i

3. Oswald Coverage: oo, “

In mid-1962, in “charge of -Lrewor|

asked the American officer _at the LTENVOY YY listening >

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban. and Satellite Em-

 

bassies in| The Station immediately

 

 

 

 

 

Soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

 

 

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish’ lines, and one. ‘Yugoslav 7
Tine. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest. which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when ‘a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels: which. contained Russian

4.

SECRET/SENSITHE

 
