74-0000

«ab ©

25 May 1978

TIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM @

a

eee os ee eats RELEASE AS SANITIZED Z
- Se aceite. 999 _

FROM : Charles W. Anderson
Chief, CAS/PAG/COB-

Paes

 

ti

SUBJECT : Maria Teresa P ro en za Proenza

1. Maria Teresa P r 0 en za Proenza, born
ll March 1908 in Havana, Cuba, is a Cuban citizen who
resided in Mexico for a number of years before the coming
te power of Fidel C a s t r o in January 1959. Miss Proenza, .
a member of the Cuban Communist Party in Mexico was an
sociate of many Mexican and foreign Communists and
ftists in intellectual and artistic circles. For *
xample, in 1957 she was the housekeeper of famed Mexican
mAUNAist- artist Diego Rivera. She was also well
quainted at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

is}

> uw

CP bm fy
aQgeo#

oy

2. When the incoming Castro regime took command of
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, Miss Proenza was
iocally hired to work there in propaganda affairs.
Eventually she was given the. titie Third Secretary/
Cultural Attache. She maintained her leftist Communist
and Soviet contacts and played an important propaganda
role for the Cuban Government because of them.

3. On 13 November 1963 this Agency initiated an
eration to counter Miss Proenza's effective exploitation
her contacts in Mexico, a work which frequently had
rong anti-U.S. overtones. Miss Proenza returned to
cuba in January 1964.

op
ore
st

a

: 4. At no time has this Agency maintained contact
with Miss Proenza.

-Charles W. Anderson

¢
ia

C/UA/STB

DIDI

Sete”

Pe asin!

 
74-00000

Sea:

viel (  - €

SUBJECT: Maria Teresa Proenza Proenza

DDO/C/CAS/PAG/COB: CWAnderson:jd(ext. 1620) (25 May 1978)

Distribution:
0 & 1 - SA/NO/O
1

- Memo Chrono -

1 - Hit Parade
1 - C/LA/STB
eee 8 ¢ genes
BOS SER TARA
MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT : Political Action. Operations in 1 Cuba - ‘The PROENZA
_Case

v

1. Introduction. *:. : aa

 

This memorandum sets forth information concerning the
conduct of a series of interlocking non-violent political action:
. operations against the Cuban government, its internal coalition
and its alliance with the Soviet Union mounted in. 1963.

2. Objectives spe vy

Pursuant to instructions from. the 503 Committee,
during. the Kennedy Administration, the CIA established among its
objectives against Cuba the fragmenting of its. governing
coalition and exacerbation of its relations with the USSR.
This decision was taken prior to the October 1962 Missile Crisis,
‘As a'result of the decision a number of non-violent operations
were carried out. Those pertaining to the Teresa Proenza Proenza
case are set out below.. :

 

Pa

 

 

3. The Operations et, i

a. On 3 April 1963 a set of spurious documents falsely
. ascribed to a disaffected CIA agent in Mexico were passed

 

(through

The do at the Cuban Vice Minister of
Defense, a highly placed and extreme Moscow-line Communist (who
‘had been in Moscow when the missile build-up was planned in

. early 1962), was actually a CIA agent who had betrayed the build-
up. The purpose of this disinformation was to cause a great
strain in the relations between the Cuban Communist Party (then
known as the PSP) and the other partners in the coalition. It
was also hoped that the operation would redound against the USSR
because the Vice Minister of Defense was a senior Moscow-line
member of the PSP. It was calculated that. the USSR would

move to defend the Vice Minister, who was probably their chief .
agent in the Cuban government, and that a collision between the
Soviets and Cubans could result. The Cubans accepted the
spurious papers and paid for them per our demand.

b. Through the summer of 1963 several further deliveries
of spurious documents were made to the Cubans and several
thousand dollars were received in payment. But results of the
operation from inside Cuba were not yet observed. Therefore
on 13 November 1963, when a delivery 0 of documents: was again

SECRET

    
    

YARRING NOTICE
SUESITIVE HAITLUGENCE SOURCES

nal ;
480 METHODS INVOLVED ne fenwrner ct avi |

     

  

 

to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

 

|
|
i
 

id 10052-10791

 

 

a
| HAR
eV: pe

ed 1

et poo -
Vow. ¢ [POPE

Co

TIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

;  RELEASEAS SANITIZED 26 JUL 1978
bass. 999

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

 

FROM : Walter Raymond, Jr.
Chief, IAD/CAS

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA). Request for CIA Files on
Teresa Pr o en z a Proenza

1. The HSCA has requested the files on Teresa Proenza Proenza
in connection with their investigation into the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy.

2. In consultation with the Principle Coordinator, HSCA,

Mr. Scott Breckenridge, we believe that these files should be

denied since they involve sensitive operational methods. (The
attached MFR at Tab A describes the project. At Tab B is the

name provided to the HSCA.)

3. If the DDO concurs in denying the files to the HSCA,
Mr. Breckenridge will consult with the DDCI and with his
approval present this position to Mr. Blakey. It is likely
that Mr. Blakey will ask Chairman Stokes to contact the DCI.

4. Mr. Charles Anderson, Chief, IAD/CAS/COB, can provide

a briefing or additional details.
Walle Remand

Walter Raymond, Jr.

Attachments:
Tabs A & B (h/w)

APPROVED:

26 JUL 1978

 

Date

30%

is

1
ay

  
 

Treat ous
SAURETS

 

a NOTICE |

 

i Ww HOMES HivuLvep _ _
—— ca umpoer ct av dl Ih
Stan Ziad

one MESATS EH ass eee + ARRRZRE. ws PRIS EM IRE ET aes
~ ee eR —

oe ee
aw an Hy Zan

being made, several were included revealing the presence of another

"CIA agent" in the Cuban government, this time inside the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico. This target was Teresa Proenza Proenza,
long-time Cuban Communist and contact of the Soviet intelligence
in Mexico, who was acting as Cuban-Cultural Attache. She also .
was a close contact of the Vice Minister of Defense. On .

10 December 1963 Miss Proenza was informed of her sudden transfer
back to Cuba; she actually departed on ‘23 January 1964. Her
recall was believed. to be a result of the spurious documents and

of her known. long- ~time. ‘friendship. with the Vice Minister of Defense.

The first reaction’ to ‘the ‘operation inside Cuba

" occurred in the week of 14 March 1964. At that time a junior

member of the Communist Party (PSP) was tried and convicted

. of betraying non-Communist leaders of the resistance to. the former

government of Cuba which had been overthrown by Fidel Castro.

As the trial wore on it became apparent that since the young.
Communist. had been the protege of the Vice Minister of Defense
the trial was really a ‘trial. of the latter. ° ~ .

d. During 1964 deliveries of documents to the Cubans
were continued and payments received. On 18 November 1964
the Vice Minister of Defense was arrested on charges of -treason

~~"""“and removed from his post, as was his wife who also ‘held ‘cabinet ~

rank. They were jailed as was, Teresa Proenza.

e. After terms in prison all three defendants were
released to house arrest. Proenza was later permitted to work as

. @ librarian in Havana. The Vice Minister died peacefully in his

bed several years later. His widow was allowed to leave Cuba
to reside in Spain. This phase of the CIA operation wound .

down in March 1966 when the Cubans ceased taking an interest in
it. ; .

4. Concluding: Remarks _ ;
The foregoing is but the Barest outline of a highly

‘complex operational system that made use of a wide variety of

techniques and assets which have not been revealed to the public.
The story would make dramatic headlines if it became publicly
known, especially in the present environment. The fact that

several persons were deprived of their freedom as a result of the .

operation would attract further attention. Furthermore, this
operation laid the basis for other operations of a similar
nature that were successfully mounted against ‘Cuban and other
hostile targets. In short, this file is a Pandora's box the
opening of which would not only expose the cryptonyms of other -

_ operations of this type but would attract unfavorable publicity

for the Agency in certain quarters and would expose hitherto
secret techniques and assets. This would make their employment
in the future very difficult. The fact that this series of

SECRET

 

( ( ¢ |

bed SPR TAPRR fre, Binal et SAE BOC In
ce C9 SHEE

“4B

operations did not begin to register on the Cubans until after
the death of President Kennedy should remove any suspicion that
it could in any way have caused Castro to direct an assassination
attempt against the President. : z

 

 

 
