 

Pg. 95 - At hospital a was MOSKALEV's middle name is

orderly by name of Ivan. . There Ivanovich; so is BYBNOV's .
were other young interns,
orderlies, etc., there,

Pg, 99 - Some momths before
Kennedy was killed, an inquir

was being circulated, about

this man (Saul). Someone wanted

to contact him. Word went out that
someone needed his services.
Pg. 109 ~ An alleged former
“~"—YMeDonald called Kimsey)
Agency employee/said the
scheme which "Saul" described
to kill the president/ .
could notspossibly have been
activated without help from
very high places in this country.

(U.S.)

 

Pg. 117 - Saul did not know h
was being called Saul.

Pg, 119 - Saul told Kimsey that
he often used: limp as part of
his disguises,

Pg. 120 - In Zurick in 1972
McDonald saw four men, Three

Arabic and one who had a blun ,

Slavic fact with a broad-type Could this have been MOSKALEV?

nose, about 40.
13-00000

Debi hee eet SAME EE ate eva lel ea

 

- 10 -
Pg. 121 ~- Kimsey felt that Saul, MOSKALEV has much greater
was a middle-European, so probatly knowledge of English than
grew up with German as second he pretends or admits.

‘language. “saul “spoke English

like an American.

Pg. 143:-. "Sauj" said he came

back to the U.S. for a short pdriod

one time, lived in Southern

Calif. for about a month, or

six weeks, then moved to Mexico.

Said business was good in Mexica,

and that made it easy, or easier, - oe
to try to make contact with who ver

was trying to make contact with
him,

Pg. 164 ~"Saul said a contact h knew, According to our records.

5

wate

namedTroit would have OSWALD in OSWALD was in Mexico.City

Mexico City 26 Sept to 3 oct [23] between those dates, and was in

and that OSWALD would call on contact with the Cuban and Soviet.
both the Cuban Consul and Soviet; Consuls.

Consud.

"Saul" said he did not have a
photo of OSWALD but had a contact
in the Soviet Embassy would do
the job (identify OSWALD) for hi

. Saul said OSWALD did show up in
Mexico City and was fingered to
him. He sat clae to him in

restauratns and cafeterias.
13-00000

   

Pg. 75 - McDonald showed phot

  
 
    
  
   
  
 

of Saul to nda. Man asked if
McDonald's interest had to do
with murder of Pres. in 1963.
McDonald said no, he wanted to
talk to him (Saul) on business
Pg. 76 - By now McDonald was
sure that "Saul" was reasonabl
well-known in highly specialized MO SKALEV is known in internationa
circules on the Zuropean contiventfcircles as scientist.
Pg. 81 - MoDonald says that
co-relation between activity
on Vozrozdenya and new types o
influenza in U.S. is disturbin ly
exact.
pg. 92. - Man told McDonald MOSKALEV was delegate to 2nd
in summer of 1970 on outskirts | International Congress on
of Gormisch, that he was dying Radiation Protection, Brighton,
from radiation sickness. He was U.K. 3-8 May 70.
flown to Vozrozdenya where he
lead to believe there was hospiltal
that specialized in cases of
radiation sickness and he would
be looked after by famous doctor
Was interviewed by 3 Russian
specialists: Emile KROPTATE
Peter GORSACH

Marion LENTZEN
 

-7-
Pe. 69 - McDonasd began his search
of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he
said, with a call from an uniden
tified woman vio arranged a meeting
in London ‘and’ told him she be lieved
the Russians had a germ warfare
installation in Vozrozdenya, in
the Aral Sea. NcDonald obtained

CIA approval to make contact.

Pg. 70 - In Germany in 1945
McDonald knew of 12 people
(Poles, Czechs, Rumanians,
Germans, Scandinavians, 2 Russia s)
who feared and hated Russia, i“
formed. org. to observe, analyze,

and report all future activities

 

within Russia and Russia sphere
of control. Most had legitimate
jobs,

Pg. 71 - 24 Sept 70 McDonald
left for London with "Saul's"
picture, McDonald said both he
and Saul were contract men_ for
CIA, ‘Saul did dangerous jobs
for private interests.

Pg. 73 - McDonald learned that o
Island of Vozrozdenya, Aral Sea,
germ warfare was being planned

against U.S. (Russians transmit

germs in jet streams).

Note mOSKALEV's scientific

background and travel,

He was in the U.K. in 68,70,

71 and 72, Background is

biophysics. MOSKALEV's
(GRU)

contact BUBNOV/"specialized

in chemical warfare",

MOSKALEV was allegedly
imprisoned during war because
of his German descent or for”

black market dealings. Could

2 age

he be a double agent?

McDonald met Saul in London
July 72, MOSKALEV travel shows

him in London Nov 72.
13-00000

  

— >) _—
i
} fs 4. On 23 Maren 1977, several identification experts of ‘
| _the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD. compared i

photos of. the unidentified man with photos Of MOREE Yuriy
| and CRS.

 

 

Ivanovich MOSKALEV from ‘the FBI,

 

“tt was their opinion that. MOSKALEV could very iikely be
identifiable. ‘with the unidentified man. ;
5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in “Dallas. " shows an

Identi- Kit Model . composite of an individual who. told the

. author in “London in 1972 that he was involved in the assassination
of President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code
name "Saul'), whose real. name -is unknown to the: author, bears

a striving resemblance to the photos of Yuriy Ivanovich

MOSKALEV. According to the author "Saul "identified the

Picture shown in the Warren Conmission Exhitit #237 as

ee sheer

having been taken at the Russian Embassy in Mexico City,

either in the foyer or r just outside.

 
13-00000

 

-6-

G. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C. McDonald,
is the inventor of the Identi-Kit and at one time was under
contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims
in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquarters
sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague
of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking parallels between the backgrounds

and MOSKALEV. For example:

of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book
. Le . L AGENCY INFO,
"Saul" MOSKALEV

Pg. - CIA allegedly}, knew According to Office of Security,

of Saul. McDonald said he first McDonald has been in touch with

met Saul in CIA Has. CIA took CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit.
: file :

picture of Saul that started His Tan states he was a

McDonald's investigation. cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi

September 1969. (contract agent)
It is true that Mexico City Static
took photos of "Saul" that McDonal

claimed started his investigation.

 

Pg. 59 ~ See Identi-Kit CDH comment: See photos of
composite of "Saul", Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. He
bears striking resemblance to

"Saul."

Pg. 60/61 ~ McDonald states it] Helms, the DDP testified under oath
was obvious that FBI and CIA that he didn't know "Saul."

were compromised at the very

top since both Agencies denied
knowledge of "Saul". Noone wan ed

to hear anymore about him.

    

‘ ” .
RBA denne 8s ae ne
 

 

 

~2-
the Cuban and - Bulgarian groups quartered in the same bus lding
in Moscow, Any .time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve
it for them. Yuri was a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB
officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the
West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member
that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.S.
clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri
was entrusted with their welfare only, and did not attend classes
with the Cuban group,

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an
individual by the name of Yuri who possibly fit the description
of the unidentified man, This lead to an individual by the
name of. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Dector
of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international
scientific conferences for the USSR since 1962 or earlier,
Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a

sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many

of the documents in his dossier are OO reports from U.S.

scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at
scientific meetings, It is obvious that he has a much greater
knowledge of the English language than he admits. His capability
is said to improve greatly after a few drinks; however, it is
noted that he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings.
It is also noted that on _ occasions he reportedly was not
qualified to represent the Soviets at a particular conference,

His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.
104-10428-10168

 

a i ae ney

SerET
; . April 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT; Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man"
Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963
REFERENCES: A. Photos Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City
Station
B. Paperback Boot "Appointment in Dallas"
C. Soft File, Headquarters Information on
Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Possible

"Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken by

our Mexico City Station on 2,3,4, and 15 October 1963, going

“into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in

Mexico City. Copies were provided to the FBI in Dallas,
Texas on 22 November 1963. Although cropped copies have
appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691. of
the Warren Commission Report, and the book “Appointment in
Dallas", to our knowledge the individual has never beenr
identified. . .

) /2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General
Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) récognized photographs of
the unidentified man as Yuri LMU, a KGB officer. whom he met
in Moscow in-1964 while attending an intelligence course
there. He said that Yuri, a fluent English and Spanish
speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for. the Cuban: group,

about 15, attending the course. Yuri lived with’
13-00000

 

+ aceon : c : -~ 3-
Following are items of interest from selected documents in
MOSKALEV's CRS dossier:
a. In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no
name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY,
Air Force Col.and GRU officer in the Information Directorate

of the GRU,
b. | In December 1963 the FBI reported ”’

>
ron

‘-c¢. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the

IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island,
New York. Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV
was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made
a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to
radiation ‘lethality.

gd. In October 1967 MOSKALEV participated in the Second
International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio

Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He
   

-4- _

travelled ai ce to Sun Valley and appar. cly was able to use
AL ase ,

his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own.
Although he complained about not !nowing much English, he
admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented.
MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a paper by a West.
German scientist. A respected U.S. scientist said he fran'ly
did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious
notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was
going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera.
From questions MOSKALEV asked, it was obvious that he '’new
English quite well. Although considerable time was spent
arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to
his home, he took a different route. without telling anyone

Fé .
of his plans, and did not visit the lat.

Se
