 

SECRET

-9-

31. However, the aunt of CARRILLO's wife is employed in
Madrid by either the USN or USAF and neither she nor CARRILLO's
wife are pro-communist, neither is the mother-in-law who,
although she lives at the Embassy in Paris, is opposed to the
regime. Carlos recommends that we talk to the mother-in-law if
we have not done so already.

32. .Carios does not remember the namé of the aunt (by
marriage) in Madrid. However, he took a letter and some perfume
from the CARRILLO family in Paris to the aunt in Madrid. He =
turned the letter over to an Agency officer for inspection prior’ ¢
to delivering it and therefore assumes that the Agency knows
who the aunt is. (The case officer is a small fellow with white _
hair, not Earle.) .

: 33. CARRILLO-appears to enjoy the confidence of Fidel
CASTRO and Celia SANCHEZ, both of whom have entrusted money to
him for investment. The confidence probably is based on their
€rust if his financial acumen rather than on their trust in his
political beliefs. These do not appear tole strong. He goes
along with the regime because it provides him with a confortable
way of life.

34. CARRILLO knows beth "El Loco”BLANCO and "El Mago"
ROBRENO but is not a friend of either. Probably CARRILLO
disli ROBRENO less than BLANCO. ob

amily
. S pointed out above, Rolando plans to use [mol
nside Cuba oncey,the time for action against STR
arrives. Carlos knows et] becaust{ Assisted many
friends of Carlos in ge fig out of Cuba even though they were

  
 
   
   
 
 

enemies of the CASTRO regime .0} did this because he then had
control of issuing exit permits. although not a completely
trustworthy person, is a pretty good sort and Rolando believes
that can be depended upon in an emergency.

 

  
  
 

36. The mother of was in Madrid fairly
recently on her way back to t that time, according to
"£1 Loco” BLANCO, a Cuban working with the Americans named
ROCHE tried to defect Marina by offering her money and_u
name of "EL Loco" as a means of introducing himself a
This incident was most embarrassing to "E] Loco” becaus €
Cuban: Embassy in Madrid suspected that he might have had seme
connection with the defection atlempt.

f

‘Op, f

 
 

SEouET

\ ~10~

1

I. CANTILLO

37. Carlos knows that there is a Cuban intelligence officer
named CANTILLO who is assigned to the Embassy in Madrid. How-
ever, Carlos does not know him personally and never has seen him.

CANTILLO has been mentioned to Carlos by "El Mago” and "El Loco”.
J. Business activities of TEPEDINO

38. TEPEDINO is selling over three million dollars worth of
jewelry per year at the present time. He employs a group of
jewelry aesigners in Paris and then mass produces jewelry, using
their designs in New York City. This jewelry, while not of the
same quality as that of Paris originals, looks exactly like the
current vogue in France and is selling extremely well. TEPEDINO
is trying to secure jewelry contracts with the Hilton hotels in
New York, Madrid and Puerto Rico. He also has a jewelry associate
in italy. His legitimate jewelry business is so good that he has
no need to run the risk of engaging in illegal activities. This
was the case even when he was in Havana but is even more so the
ease now, At no time has‘ he engaged in smuggling, for example,
in either Italy or Spain.

K. Travel Plans of TEPEDINO

39. TEPEDINO plans to travel to Miami about 8 or 9 July and
expects to spend a week relaxing and fishing. From mid-July to
the latter part of August, TEPEDINO expects to be in New York
City and during. this time would be happy to travel to Washington,
D.C. if the Agency so desires. About the end of August, TEPEDINO
plans to travel to Europe where he expects to remain for a month
or month and a half. At this time, he expects to visit Rome,
Milan, Paris and Madrid.

L. Recommendations

40. It is recommended that arrangements be made to give an
LCFLUTTER to TEPEDINO while he is in the Miami area. (Questions
for inclusion in a FLUTTER examination are attached.) The
advantages of giving the FLUTTER examination at Miami are
several. One is that at Miami we do have a Spanish speaking
operator. Although TEPEDINO has adequate English tor business
purposes, he does not feel at home in the language and quite
often misinterprets the English expressions. Another advantage
is that testing at Miami by individuals who have not been
connected and who are not likely to be connected with him in the
future should provide an objective assessment and should not
interfere with the rapport necessary to maintain good relations
in the future if the tests are favorable. Another advantage is
that his Miami trip is a vacation so that he should have time

 

 
14-00000

 

. SECRET
~8-

26. Felipe LLAUDY is not known to belong to the Cuban
intelligence service and Carlos has heard nothing to make it
appear that LLAUDY could be recruited.

a friend of CUBBIAS

28. Carlos knows nothing of interest about Hernan HERNANDEZ,
America CISERNOS, Mario FISSOLO, Gustavo ARCOS, Luis CRESPO,
‘Luis ALONSO, Luis TRASANCOS, Emilia. OTERO, Carlos THEYE, Antonio
SANZ or Victor ESPINOSA. (At the time when the foregoing names
Were reviewéd with Carlos (about midnight) he appeared to be
extreyely weary and to have difficulty in continuing the inter-
view.

G. Ambassador CARRILLO

29. Carlos first met CARRILLO about 1957 when CARRILLO
went to Carlos' store to price an engagement ring for Pepin
NARANJO. At that time CARRILLO was the treasurer for the DRE -
which was Rolando CUBELAS' group. Carlos bought some bonds and
also contributed money apart from bond purchases. CARRILLO was
once in Miami but the timé is not known. About 1958 CARRILLO was
exiled from Cuba and lived in Spain where he represented the DRE.

27. Nilo MESSER Pujol who is connected with ARTIME is not

“After the collapse of BATISTA, CARRILLO returned to Cuba. In

early 1960 he was a functionary in the Protocol Department of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At that time CARRILLO's wife

‘beeame a customer of Carlos’ store, buying quite a bit of

inexpensive jewelry.

30. To the best of Carlos’ knowledge, CARRILLO does not
suspect that Carlos is connected with the Agency; CARRILLO knows
that Carlos is a friend of Rolando but does not know anything
about Rolando's plot against Fidel. The dealings between
CARRILLO and Carlos in connection with the latter's purchases
of Cuban government jewelry arose because Carlos once had priced
jewelry in Havana. CARRILLO remembered this and offered to sell
jewelry to Carlos. When Carlos bought jewelry (on our behalf),
Carlos proposed to CARRILLO that the latter tell the Cuban
government that the jewelry was being sold at a lesser price
than that which Carlos was paying. Carlos offered to arrange the
bill of sale to show the lesser price so that CARRILLO could
keep the difference. CARRILLO refused indignantly. Hence,
Carlos believes that CARRILLO is playing square with the Cuban
government. Carlos believes that CARRILLO, although not a
communist, is happy with his status and priveleges as Ambassador
and that CARRILLO is not likely to defect or to accept recruit—
ment.
 

 

 

SCRE

18. Rolando told Carlos that he has an apartment on the
Plaza Civica in Habana where the 26th of July celebration will
take place. Rolando said that people loyal to him will be in
the reviewing stands at the celebration. Carlos believes that
Rolando may make an assassination attempt on 26 July 1965.

19. Rolando is disenchanted with the Agency. He told
Carlos that the Agency has had abundant opportunity to deal with
him and’ to furnish-help but.-chose not to do so except through
ARTIME ~ whom Rolatido does not- trust and who told Rolando that

the Agency was of fering its help through him, ARTIME,

“ 20, Rolando considered that the injection of ARTIME was a

completely useless and risky maneuver on the part of the Agency
which, if it wishes to disclaim moral responsibility for the
plot, could have used and still should use Carlos as the
intermediary. .

21. If Rolando can get through the risks, inherent in
having so many people know about his plot, during the next couple
of months, he certainly will carry through with his Plans -
this before the end of the. year.

22, Although Carlos recognizes the defects of both "El
Mago” and "El Loco”, he shares their opinion that the Agency has
not treated either them or Rolando fairly. Carlos believes that
both these individuals, in addition to being useful in connection
with the plot, could have been useful in many other ways because
of their access to Cuban government representatives including
intelligence people in Europe and elsewhere, "El Mago", who still
is’in Europe, is extremely clever and does have entry to all
Cuban circles as a result of which Carlos believes "El Mago"still
should be used by the Agency.

F. Miscellaneous comments of Carlos concerning additional names, ,
which have cropped up in connection with CUB

23. , Luciano NIEVES Mestre, who lives in Madrid, is said to
be irresponsible (a "nut" like "El Locc"), but Carlos does not
know him personally.

 

 

24. Jose Luis LLOVIO who lives in Paris is believed to
. work for Cuban intelligence.

. 25. Carlos once saw "Cayo Confites" - Luis GARCIA Cerdeira
with either BERNAL or "El Mago" ROBRENO. CARRILLO believes that
“Cayo Confites" is an agent for thé U.S. Government.
 

“SECRET
-§-

11. The whole plot against Fidel CASTRO could be discovered
by the Cuban security serv.cc because of the many individuals who
are aware of it and because some of them are irresponsible:
Particularly..disconcerting to Carlos is a report which he
received on 23 June that-"E1 Loco" BLANCO now is being questioned
by the Cuban security service. Carlos learned this through a
telephone cali made by DE LEON. DE LEON said that the mother of
“El Loco",. who resides in Miami, had just received a letter. from
her sister in Havana with the foregoing news. The letter said
. that "El Loco" is not in jail and has been able to visit relatives

but that he must. appear for questioning throughout the day and
" is not allowed to sleep at home. (Carlos suggests that the
Agency endeavor through its contacts in Miami to get a copy of
the“letter and to warn the mother of “El Loco" that she should
not talk to anyone about it.)

E. Miscellaneous comments of Carlos concernin, eople involved
in the CUBELAS pict
ee ee piot

12. (In addition to the comments which already have been
reflected in previous paragraphs, Carlos made others which are
reflected here.) “El Mago" ROBRENO is a thoroughly irresponsible
man whom Ramiro VALDEZ, Minister of Interior, forced to leave
Cuba because ROBRENO had caused so much trouble for the Cuban
authorities. ROBRENO is a drunkard and woman chaser who wants to
live an easy life but who is not willing to work and never has
worked throughout his life. Despite these admitted defects,
ROBRENO admires and is loyal to Rolando CUBELAS. CUBELAS con-
siders that ROBRENO, insofar as their own relations are concerned,
will do anything which he is told. Rolando told Carlos that he
could trust ROBRENO insofar as the plot is concerned but that
Carlos should not give any money to ROBRENO because money would
merely facilitate ROBRENO's getting into more trouble. Last week,
about 17 June so far as Carlos can recall, ROBRENO telephoned
collect from Madrid and asked Carlos for funds. The conversation
was brief and 1t was difficult for Carlos to understand because
of noise and interruptions during the call. . It appeared that the
Primary reason for the call was Simply to ask for money. ROBRENO
Said that he was penniless. He also said that everything
appeared to be fine and asked if Carlos had any news. Carlos
said that he had nothing to report and that he himself did not
have any cash available but that he would probably make a trip
to Spain in about a week and would talk to ROBRENO then. In
fact, Carlos has no intention of going to Spain in the near
future and told ROBRENO the foregoing merely to get rid of him.
 

© SECRET

~6-
ad
13. “El Loco” BLANCO is a strange person who well deserves
the nickname. He secured his release from military service in
the U.S. by pretending to be crazier than he really is.
Although he is unreliable and unpredictable. he is absolutely
loyal to Rolando CUBELAS and is trusted completely by Rolando
insofar as the plot is concerned. "El Loco" was trained by
Cuban intelligence in Cuba before he left for Spain. The
. trainer, whose name Carlos does not recall, gave the training in
El Vedado. There is no question about the connection of "El
Loce” with Cuban intelligence and it is considered strange that
_- the Agency did not display more interest in making use of this
~ connéction. Among other things, "El Loco" knew the identity of
a:Cuban intelligence agent who was working ina camp run by
Manuel ARTIME. "El Loco” has said that he told ARTIME and also
people from the Agency about this individual but that nothing
was done.

14. Jose VENEGAS Valdespino, who has been Vice-President
of the International Students Union, had been stationed in
Prague but returned to Cuba last year. While VENEGAS was en
route to C.ba-he passed through Barcelona, Madrid and Paris at
all of which places he talked to Carlos. As indicated previously
in this memorandum, Carlos has known VENEGAS since about 1952
or 1953.- Although they never had been friends, VENEGAS was
cordial and Carlos can approach him at any time. VENEGAS and
CUBELAS know each other.well and Carlos suspects that CUBELAS
might have told VENEGAS about the anti-Castro plot.

15. Rolando, like Fidel CASTRO and Camilo CIENFUEGOS, has
the capacity to attract people ~ even though his manners leave
much to be desired. He can be described aptly as brusque.

16. Rolando does not have either lik ng for or trust in
Manuel ARTIME and met him only because of the Avency's insistence
and at the recommendation of "El Nage" and "El Loco”. Rolando
criticized Carlos for getting ARTIME into the act but Carlos
disclaimed any responsibility. Rolando believes ARTIME isa
mercenary - out for what he can get - and a cheap politician.

17. Rolando does respect Manolo RAY and insisted on meeting
him. Rolando and Carlos consider that RAY 1s an idealist willing
to sacrifice himself for the cause. This is the opinion of the
man in the street in Cuba even after the failure of RAY to keep
his glowing promise about Getting to and staying in Cuba to
promote a revolution,

 

 
 

Yl

_ CASTHO's

” SECRET _

-2-

3. During the revolutionary activity against BATISTA,
ECHEVARRIA and CUBELAS had as much or more prestige than Fidel
CASTRO but after BATISTA fled from Cuba, Fidel CASTRO maneuvered
himself inte control-of 211 of Cuba to the detriment of other
revolutioniry leaders. CUBELAS accepted CASTRO's leadership
at first’ but became disenchanted as CASTRO turned towards
communismand as CASTRO neglected the other revolutiomry
leaders Who had struggled against BATISTA. As. the result of
attitudes and actions, many of the old revolutionaries
Betame counter-revolutionaries. Some fied the country and some
began working against. the CASTRO regime in the same way as they

 

    

., Had worked ‘against BATISTA. The activities of Rolando CUBELAS and
those closé to him, including Carlos, are covered in a separate

‘paragraph below.

C. Conneétion with the Agency

4. About 1957 Carlos and a Cuban businessman named R.cardo
RIVON were approached by a Czech who said that he wished to
invest a substantial sum of money in Caba and who promised quick
and substantial profits if RIVON and Carlos would join in his
activities, Although ‘Carios no longer remembers the name of the
Czech,he believes the Agency would have a record of it. Carios
was suspicious of the Czech and suggested that RIVON discuss the

Czech's offer with the U.S. Embassy..,[t was because of this
that Carlos came to meet "the individual who
listened to RIVON when the latter went to the Embassy. Stewart /

requested that Carlos and RIVON maintain contact with the Czec
who was believed to.be connected with intelligence activities.

5. The close Bssociation witn[ eon snued and in
about November 195 request arios o to Mexico to
obtain information about a Soviet exhibition? of fered
to pay the expenses of Carlos but Carlos, who was prosperous,
refused to accept .any funds. He did attend the exhibition,
became a member of the Cuban commission which arranged for the
transfer of the Soviet cxhibition jo Caba, and was able to obtain
detailed information nie ——_ipeared to consider valuable.
About August 1960, Rolando and Carlos were invited toa
leftist student conference in Switzerland. By this time, Carlos
had become friendly with both and with a colleague of

a Art Avignone.0GCarlos accepted requirements which
e believes were levied by. Avignone rather than a d

once again was offered funds so that he could fulfill these
requirements in Switzerland. Again Carlos refused to accept
money but agreed enthusiastically to do all that he could for the
United States. Carlos was ,iver a contact plan so that he could
report to an unidentified American in S.atzerland, but although
Carlos carried out the arrangements, the American never appeared.

| SCRE
 

104-10183-10424
ray ry

«

 

. RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

“47

dike
28 June 1965

CONTACT REPORT

Meetings of 22 June 1965 at Hotel Roosevelt and.23 June 1965
at the Tudor Room of the Hotel Commodore

- 93
Participants: Carlos TEPEDINO, (Harry Webster) and Harold F.,
Swenson

(All the information reported below is from TEPEDINO

A. PRQ-1 fora filled out by Carlos. See attached original.
Copies being made’ for 201) .

-B, Involvement in political activity or revolutionary or

counter-revolutiona-y activity ¢

1. Carlos has never been active ‘in politics and voted only
once in his life - for a candidate of the Authentic Party.
However, he has been active in revolutionary and counter-
revolutionary activities since 1952. During the year 1952-53
he began conspiring against BATISTA acting as an accommodation
addressee for Jose Antonio ECHEVARRIA (now deceased) and close
associates of ECHEVARRIA, inclading Rolando CUBELAS. Others
involved with Carlos in tne anti-BATISTA activities included
Ricardo MIDAN Rivas (who had been a Senator in the Prio govern~-
ment and a “iaister in the Grau government and who now resides
in Miami), Sergio NEJIAS (who had been both Senator and Minister
during the Prio goverament, a representative during the Grau
government and who is now the Mayor of Matanzas), Diege Vicente

-TEJERA (now in Santo Domingo where he is trying to start a

fishing business and where he is a close friend of IMBERT),
Marcelino "Marzo" ARTIME (no relation to Manuel] ARTIME),
Fernando CORTINA (now a prisoner in Cuba), Daniel VASQUEZ (a
Cuban air force pilot now residing in Miami), and Carlos Palo
Soccoras (former President of Cuba). During thissame period,
he came to know Jose VENEGAS Valdespino, known as "El Chino":
but Carlos aever was friendly with VENEGAS knowing him only as
an associate of Rolando CUBELAS in student activities. Carlos’
friendship with Rolando reslted from their DSeing introduced by
Antonio ECHEVARRIA.

2. In addition to serving as an accommodation addrasat
for the revolutiouaries who were plotting against BATIS LA, Carlos
used his business premises to hide people fleeing from th. BATISTA
police and to hide arms for the revolutionaries. He also
contributed funds to the revolutionary cause.

 
 

®)py

 

    

-3-

At this time Carlos’ step-father sent a message to Switzerland
warning Carlos that he should not return to Cuia. After the
student congress in Switzerland Carlos therefore went to the
United States. He decided to reside in the U.S. but in order to
arrange for a resident visa, he had to leave the country.
Accordingly, about February 1961, Carlos went to Ncxico to
request a regident vis: rom the United States Consul. At that
time-he saw - in Mex and introduced Rolando CUBELAS,
also im Mexico at that time, to (Carlos had been trying
te introduce CUBELAS to ‘the Ameri cans forgdsome time and had once
gade tentative arrangements to introduce and CUBELAS in
iba but these preyious arrangements fel Fough at the last
minute. Accordingly. the first contact between CUBELAS and the

 

“Americans took placé in Mexico about February 1961.) Carlos came

to the U.S. with a-resident visa about March 1961 and has resided

lin the.U.S. from that time-until the present, although he has

travelled frequently to other countries in connection with his
jewelry business. When no Agency representatives contacted Carlos
in the U.S. for several months, he assumed that the Agency had
lost interest in him and no longer wished to make use of his
services. Some time later, individuals representing the FBI
contacted Carlos by telephone and wished to meet him, but Carlos
preferred: not to begin any new association and said that he was
not interested in any further contacts concerning Cuban matters.
These phone calls from the FBI resulted from the suggestions

 

made by) who has cooperated closely with the FBI at Miami.
: 3
6. Carl ied°his contact with the Agency when he was
approached by (under pseudonym

  
 
 

made a trip. to Helsinki where he introduce
Rolando. There were other meetings involving
and CUBELAS at Stockholm, Ccopenhagen and Paris. At
Rolando me in addition t

ie)
D. Plans and Contacts of Rolando CUBELAS

57. During the time when Carlos was in Europe wi e
sa here, at times alone and at times with
CUBELAS outlined to Carlos plans for a coup in

oO.

Cuba. hese plans concerning which Carlog,has informed the
Agency in detail jn talks with rowith Mr. Sanchez
(under pseudonym) involved the assassination of Fidel CASTRO.
From that time until the present Carlos has tried to serve as
an intermediary between Rolando CUBELAS and tne Agency. The
last time that Carlos saw Rolando in person was in Madrid about
March 1965 but Carlos did talk to Rolando again, also in March
1965, by telephone when Rolando was transitting Gander en route
back to Cuba.

 

 
 

tha

my om

-4-

8. Rolando, in order to carry out his plan for a coup in
Cuba,has had to make a number of persons knowledgeable to @
greater or lesser. extent. Those people who now are in Cuba
and who are aware of the plans of Rolando include the following:

-"Cdte Ramon-GUIN (who has become quite nervous and who is drinking
‘peavily), Cdte (iru) NIEVES (whom Rolando considers absolutely

_ yeliable anda -key

 

 

figure in the plan and who now is in charge

‘of. the port of Havana), a Captain whose name Carlos has furnished

to the Agency but whose name he cannot recall, who now is an
artilleryechief), 2 MIG pilot (who had -sérved withgiolando during

 

 

 

" ‘the fighting: against BATISTA), (whose

knowledge is dangerous because he is a coward wno hesitates
to bear any responsibility in carrying out the plan), Luis SOTO
(who now is rector of Habana University), Marcelino "Marzo" ~
ARTIME (an old revolutionary who is thoroughly reliable and who
is a close friend of Carlos), an individual whose name Carlos
does not recall. but who is an uncle by marriage of Tony CASTEL
(whom Carlos considers to be a worthless person), and at least
six or seven others whose names Carlos does not know.

9. In addition to these individuals who are aware of the
details of Rolando's plot, there are others whose support CUBELAS
believes he can count on once action is taken but who have not
been made aware of the plot (so far.as Carlos knows) up to the
present time. These include the following: Cdte Efigenio

_ ALMEI JEIRAS or ALMESEIRAS, Cdte Juan ALMELDA Bosque, Raul DIAZ

Arguelles, a Cdte who is known as "Julio El Grande", a Lieutenant
whose first name is Guillermo and who acts as Rolando's chauf~
feur, Pepin NARANJO (whom Carlos considers 2 coward), about 20
or 30 officers in the armed forces whom Rolando knows well but
whose names are not known to Carlos, Faure CHOMON (whom Rolando
considers a communist at present but whom Rolando expects to
support a coup for personal benefit), and finally a number of

people in Las Villas.

10. Other individuals who are aware of the plans of Rolando
CUBELAS and who have played some part in the plotting up to the
present time include Carlos Jose "El Mago" ROBRENO, Alberto "El
Loco” BLANCO, BERNAL, Manolo REY, Manuel ARTIME, GALLARETA,

M guel Cuco de Leon, Rafacl QUINTERO, Luis TRASANCOS and Angel

Luis FERNANDEZ.
