74-00000

SRT

not provide such a letter. ‘The fact that Reichardt had unilaterally
requested such a letter from the District Office of Immigration was
ealled to the attention of Colonel Edwards and he telephonically
informed the Chief, WH Division, that the Immigration Service would
strongly prefer if such request were levied directly to the Central
Office and not by CIA representatives in the field.

&, At 10:45 a.m. on 15 January, the Acting Director of
Security was briefed. He suggested that the full story be requested
in writing from the WH Division with regard to this recent arrival,
and also that the WH Division put in writing any requests for sup-
port by the Immigration Service in the form of letters to assist
the owner of the vessel yayen has been impounded.

5. At 2:20 p.m s so informed. At that time he
inquired as to whether IZNS would provide a letter supporting the .
position taken by the Captain of the vessel. ‘The Captain's position
is that he discovered two stowaways aboard on the day in question,
and upon arrival in the United States, turned the stowaways over to
the IANS? was informed that it is doubtful if the CIA
would issue such a request to Immigration, however, he was requested
to submit his request in writing to the Director of Security.

2

6. On 18 January, Mr. Rod Landreth, of ue [—ottice,
advised that he had prepared a letter as requested and forward

it to this Office through channels.

   

   

he, at Mga :
wijiian J. Cotter

QS/AAS/WJC:es 20 Jan 60 VO

SECRET
34

 
 

40110-10255

 

+ STANDARD FORM NO. 64

ace ,
a

. Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

 

FROM |

SUBJECT:

Fie DATE: 20 January 1950
Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

Immigration and Naturalization Service, Relations with
(Miami, Florida)

og.
1. On 15 January 1960, at 0900 hours, Mr.
WH, III( Caribbean), advised that Bernie Reichardt had telephonically
informed him that the owner of the impounded vessel had suggested
the possibility of I&NS providing a letter to the owner of the
vessel stating that the Service had inspected the vessel on its
arrival and found no passengers.

2. Mr. Reichardt also reported that he had informally
queried the District Director, I&NS, Miami, on the possibility
of securing such a letter, however, he had no idea that the matter

@isould be referred to the I&NS Central Office in Washington, D. C.

 

eadily agreed that the Service coula.“6é requested to
provide such a letter as, in fact, we had made arrangements with
the Service for the entry of these individuals in one United States.

3. In response to further inquiries, Mr stated that
on the arrival of these two individuals, the entry of the aliens
into the United States had not been cleared with the Office of
Security as called for by Reguiation 50-110. The parties concermed
(who arrived in December 1y5y) were Manuel ARTIME and Roberto VARONA.
The OS Indices contained no record of VARONA. A file on ARTIME
(#210836) reflects that the WH Division requested his polygraph in
Flovida and SSD provided an escort to accompany him to New Orleans
in order to enabie him to obtain a visa to Mexico. He did secure
the visa and is allegedly now in Mexico. The SSD had informed the
AAS of the fact that they had been requested to provide such an
escort and in fact, with regard to the endeavor o. the WH Division
to obtain a visa from Mexico for the subject, on or about 15 Decem-
ber lySy, this Staff had received information from Mr. Richard
Haberstroh that Mr. Reichardt uad contacted the District Director
in Miami, Fiorida, and requested that the Service provide a letter
wnicn would indicate tnat ARTIME would be readmissibie into the
United Staves. The puipose of that ietter was tu satisry a requiie-
wmenc Levied by the Mexican Consul in Miami before they would grant
e vise to ARTIME. Mr. was informed that the Service could

O35

' QETURN TO CIA
Background Use Cnly
+ Bo Mat Reproduce

 

2
