104-10227-10004

 

B.

To do not know waat they do there,

They also are on Varsonof'yevs':ty Street (rerculoik),

What do they have on Varsonof'yevssly Street

 

CUESULAYEV's deputy, SAISINO, alta there, te.

T was there only at SAINO's.
“nen did the Guards move to the new building:
I do not know,

What else.

((Pause)) Yos, part of the Third Directorate, the Third «= it is in
Building #3, in the old building and in the new one,

Since when.
Why {8 everything so poorly organized there a. part of a directorato

is here and part there.

Would Lt not be better to leave one directorate in one place and

another in another.

‘I do not know why.

Well, part of the First Directorate also is on the seventh floor in

the old building. ;
There is part of it on the tenth floor in Building #2, in the old

building.
The Second Department of the First Directorate is there (fon the

tenth floor)),

Let us take the tenth floor.

Who sits there.

The Second Department of the First Chief Directorate.

I do not know who else because I never went there, -
104-10227-10004

Bs
1

 

i
>

 

B.

B.

((Pause)) Who else is tin the new building

Mint -— you never were on the tenth fleer of the old buildins during

your wiole tine of work there.

[owas, in the Second Departnint <= [1 told you,
\

And you do not snow more of whe is there

You did not meet anyone tn Ll years
Tho tenth flvor {ts a very short one; it ts not very large:

If you know that {it was a short and not a large ono, you must know

°

something clso,

What, what.

If it is short and’ not a large ono, it would be casior to remember

what was located there.

Well, the Second Departnent of tho First Directorate is located there.

What else.
I do not know what else,

Oh, yes, part of the office was occupied hy the Seventh Directorate,

the Seventh Directorate.

Tho tenth, the ninth floor, it scems.
What else is in the new building, beyinning with 1953 and to the end.

((Pause)) I do not know, I do not know what clse is there.

I was not often there.

I think (XG) (.Most recently, cverything there was liquadated )
104-10227-10004

A.

thew; that fs where the nev buthalon abready be
In the old building or in the new one
In the new one, in the new one,

ox,
Where did iRUGLOV sit.

(26).

Where did MASLENNIKOV sit?

ia

I do not know.

Very well,
What other directorates, clenents, and departm

new building:

You have mentioned the First Directorate, the

cing,

ents are there in the

Border Troops, part

of the Personnel Directorate, some of the leaders.

Yow many floors are there.
((Pause)) Nine,

You know that (XG).

Of course, nine floors is many.

There is enough space not only for one directorate -- souething else

is there (XG).
Part of. the Guards Directorate is there.
Where is the Guards Directorate located.

In the new building, in the ircnlin....

What do they do in the hrenlin.

 
104-10227-10004

Benen

 

A.

Tas natn leaders of the

sunnel ittrectorate.

 

Vaen dtd taey rove in

‘

Tacy aleays wore in iuatlddsas Fie,

mak the chdoftfs and the natin body are here,

 

 

vhat else.
Lut who sits in BERIYA's office.

.

In ‘tae old building

I ¢o not know where they are,

‘. You know better -= you went tn therc; you worked there,

ZA‘IAROV sits here,
More specifically.

First Deputy Chalrman of the KGB ZAMIAROV,

Who sits in KOBULOV's office:

((Long pause)) They split up his office into several parts (XG).

And ehere was SEROV.

Wio occupies nis office

“CGRULOVY was there... SENOV, SENICHASTNIY, SHELEPIN, SEMICHASTNIY....

Where did SIELEPIN sit.

It was in the connecting building between the old buildinn and the

 
104-10227-10004

Well, waat other files do you know

((Pause)) What hind of Ctles are opened on a person wio is under

devetopacat and whom tiey are talnaxin: to nerest soon

BB. Lt could be a search tle (rozysineye delo), 1t could be an arent
network development file.
On an individual,

On ® proup....

A, Well, tho search file == this is understood,
Once a person is found, naturally they have to do something with him ==.
arrost him, open a filo on tho investipation, then make a dicision
to imprison hin or free him -= in snort, to try hin.

It is understood -+ they aro searching for him.

Bu Tho agent network development comes to an end, to a conclusion,

whon @ person is connected with intellirence....

: A. Tacro is also a file when an enployee writes up a final report....
: : Alroady o decision has been made hy a chief of department or higher,
on what will be the outcome of this case and that there will be an

arrest,
Already, as they say, the KGB could make an arrest, but not every thing

is ready to do this.

B. Well, the agent network devclopment file.

: If the KGB still cannot make an arrest, then some more work is

needed, additional tnformation. is needed,

 

‘Then the azent network, tie technical means, are used..’.. |
A. But it ts not an agent network cevelopnent file.
There ig something clse.

I think that, with such leading questions, it is very easy to answer...

B. { do not remember; I[.do not renenber.

 
104-10227-10004

ay

Maint ts the difference betwee tac Ctles on a-resicent, an arent,

An inforsaat, and so forth

Tae personal ftle on ao restient (Lichnoye delo reridentn) <= it is

ealled the personal ffle on a rentdent <= let Us say e= Ivan, Petr,

and so on,

eee

Tae personal file of the arent... and the content ts the sane with
the exception that, tn the personal file of the resident, thero is a
list of the arents with Wien he works, with whom he worked in the

past, in witch safeshousen he works, and so forth,
Phat other files aro there

Well, what was it called |
We had a file on INTURIST, for the wholo departnent.

“That is what it was callod. (2G),

((Pause)) On the basis of your explanations, one can say that you
have some kind of knowledge, but not the knowledze of an employee
who worked there,

You yourself cannot explain the shaplest things.

You do not know your om [iles or many other files which there wore,

((Pause)) You do not know anynore.

Let us return to another question -- name all of the directorates

and departments which wero houscd in the new building, Duilding #2,
Tue First Directorate,

‘The First Chicf Directorate.

The First Chief Directorate.

OK.

Tne Chief Directorate of forcer Troops.
104-10227-10004

 

 

R,

TRANSLATION

+. because they do not know his nane,
mit tt ia known that information has cone tn, let us say, from an
agent who studied and wag dispatched, went throujsh an American

school, sny == from Iran, or somewhere else,

The agent has reported that a croup was being trained, and «=

according, to the tnformation, the dispatched persons == such-and=
such == with whom he had studied -= he decs not know his name, nor

docs he know under wht cover he will arrive; he knows only the

_deser tption of the ayent or some inforsation concerning the place

in which ho is supposed to show up.

That ts, his name is not known,

That is what an agent network search file (ngenturno-rorvysknoye delo)

is.
Are you sure this is so.

That is the general idea; I did not handle this kind of file.

‘But probably you sonetines saw then.

I do not remember,

In your work, what kind of filles did you nandle w- of those that you

have mentioned to me-

Delo formulyar, or agent network devclopnent file.

So -= the dclo formulyar and the agent network dovelopnent file.

What else.

 

 
104-10227-10004
MATERUAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SULECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSENATIOSS STAFF MEMBERS

   

FILE TETLE/SUAGER/VOLUMES Mads SRY AT
DOOR PC LAE VM ATT ¢ _
Kiered thes

INCLUSIVE DATES: AMS? BEET CoE

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: SE
. Released under the-John F. Kennedy Assassination)

Ms
ROOM; pacatds Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53216 6/17/17

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

          
  

Sate DATE mn
- RECEIVED | RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL'
CEL INT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
a

‘ou

ar ra

CA HISTORICHE

 

rt

‘

+ eae
104-10227-10004
We The agent netewars devetopment Phle on a Soviet oltiven,
tn 1961 e- that tH, in 1900 w= there was the colo forculyar and
there were the Usa.
Well, let us say, on the sinter, Tanara (1G)
That was an Avent networy developaent file. -

Now...

A, Were you never at her hone

A. You Lived noxt door; you could never drop in.

Too bad.
If the delo formulyar and then thoy were changed to the DARs, then

- evidently there was no DAR in 1953,
B. Thoro was the ayent network development file.

A, What was the differcnce between the dolo formulyar and the DAR at

that timo.

B. I do not remember; I do not remember,

I do not know,

 

Was thero this supplement to the liternoye dcelo or....

A. Then you yourself did not handle a liternoye delo?

B. No, no.

Tho supplement to the liternoye delo.

 

A, ((Pause)) What kind of other files did you handle
B. ((Pausc)) The agent network surveillance file,

A. ((Pause)) On whom
104-10227-10004

 

R,

On a tourist.

Tre personal file on arents, safe-houses.

((Pause)) What fa the dteference between a honurpirativnaya and a

yavochnaya hvartira
[Se Thiet Seale a AL

Tne yavochnaya kvartira ts one in witeh one or another Soviet
efitizcon lives, and which the RGR after the appropriate cheeking,
makes the dec is ton to recruit him and use his apartment for their
operational aims -= they moct agents ((there)),

The apartment docs not belony: to the KGB, but to tho Soviet citizen

(ie),
The konspirativnaya kvartira belonys wholly to the KGB.
peated Ld SE ath at Sh di atti

Sho lives there.

A housekecper can live in it or an agent can be settled there,

Yes, .
Well, what ts the flle called, for the one type of apartaent and

the other.

What kind of a file is opened on that man whose apartment is used:

The keeper of tho Yak -= say it is Boris.,.,

Boris... :
(Cin English)) That's right,

And the konspfrativnaya kvartira.

Personal file KK and such-and-such a number, or XK and the cryptonym,
And the person who takes care of the place.
The keeper ~~ on him there is another file.
A file ls opened on him separately,

The keeper of the KK Is == let us say ~- “SVETLAYA’,

So.
