 

 

Gell, believing that such sesietanca activities were in®
fact futile and beiieving that CASTRO would in fact shoot
his men, and believing that he could all alone determine
what was to be said on TV, he decided that to accept the offer
was the correct thing to do. He could not have the blcod of
others on his hand, he said, untéss something very worthwhile
was being accomplished. He professed to VALDEZ, however, that he
had ‘no authority all by himself to sake that decis son and asked
to discuss it with three or four MRP leaders there in jail with
him. VALDEZ agreed that he could discuss it withFBernando ROJAS

but with no one else, and that was done. ROJAS reluctantly
approved, :

He srote the presentation he was to give on TV and he siad
ho substantive changes were made by the Cubans. He constructed
it, he said, to 1) tell them as much aS nossible what they
wanted tohear without doing any real harm, 2) protect those
still at large, and 3) give away as little senstitive information
as possible, He said he realized fully what
he would do it acain if caught in the same situation, and that

said and still feels it was the only logical think he could

do. Again, this was not a subject he enjoyed discussing; he appears
ed in fact a bit embarassed by it all, but he knew it would be
coming at some point.

8. Why didn't the Cubans release him after the ransom was paid
them? Because he would not sign a vaper in effect saying he was
“Sorry and asking CASTRO's forgiveness, He meet with Alonso PUJOL”
and three G2 military officers to discuss the relea se and the
conditions of the release one day after the ransom had been paid,
and when he refused the Ge2's conditions PUJOL took a piece of
paper out and scribbled on it an agreenent, which said Subject
would cbligate himself not to become involved again in antic
CASTRO activities if released, and he agreed to sign that. In
fact, he did sign it. PUJOL then handed it to the militay officers
but they said the Cuban Sove could not accept it. It was after
that that the money was reutrned,

9. How did he get out when he did? Through the efforts of*Gabriel -
"GARCIA Marquez, a Mexican novelist and reporter in Mexico

“-ityrane -
Fa good Briend of CASTKO-and other high Cuban leaders cand of Subject.
“and his wife. Subect's wife and GARCIA's wife are Particularly

close, as are GARCIA'ts wife and Subject's children,

10. Subject's wife had contacted many people, promient People in

an effort to bring about Subject s release but had had no luck until
the GARCIA's went to work-on it, In early November (he thinks) of
1977 GARCIA and wife visited Cuba and srent sometine with CASTRO.
GARCIA's wife allegedly told CASTRO that she had one important

favor to ask of him, to release a good firend of theirs who had by
then held for Many years. CASTRO promised to do it immediately,
However, by il Dec 77 Subject was still not out and:GARCIA, on his
BeveP Hy En RabSaS 1S S2o* ALT nz" cL IST2Y BoeDia stopped eft

re A 8 ee aM tl ae tegen ne mn

 

 

 

 
 

~ Carlos Rafae} RODRIGUEZ, KHO RElayed the word to CASTRO and
. the latter went to see GARCIA at his hotel room, He told 7

GARCIA that he was Sorry that he had
Subject when promised but that there

echelon of govt that were opposed to his release and that it
took him sone tine tobring them around.

  

Oo drove him to |

» who was generally.
referred to a Maflo, Several of our other subjects had contact
with this guy and most found him reasonable
very military,

12. Subject is working for himsel¢ and has been for
he is in the used Clothes business, and exnects

for his business on 8th Street, SW, in the S000
believe, at an early date,

Sometime 3
to rent a place
block, I

of his suppliers but

« He's very optimistic
».although somewhat over
the office for a Puerto

ee ene ee ae EE LE ETE SL NRT CE TI Ct RR Rt 1S eta, Sif
®
i
hg
¥ 3
Ps)
be
-
wr
a
ee
3
a
FE
a
2
or
ra
®
a.
_
‘“<
3
J
x
wi
w
i
°

pon cate annem semenettne ens
g
®
be
i)
Eg
Cd
.
5
a
7 x
A
a
g
a
i
®
s
°
al
x
a
e
Fs
®
g
x
(fy
in
FE]

13. Suv§ect w as Bost appreciative for the of
‘@xamination, and he knows ‘that he has no
. the Agency, Nevertheless, he Probably is expecting some finaancial
‘Compensation for his time in origon,
mentioned specifically. Tidbits of info provided by him on people
on the long list, as well as on other. will
be or has been included in other reports, .

 

otha eettieer o

i
|
:

 

setae cst olbnme tiie ote

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

: 28 May 1979
i (201275949) .
|
Memo for the Record i fo
| TO 3 Mr. William Sturbitts
rol | |
SUBJECT: Reinol GONZALEZ Vonzales - Comments on Interview
in May 1979 in Miani, ‘
1. This Subject was interviewed on the occasionof both our it
! visits to Miami and we Spent at least some 6 hours with him and

still haven't finished. He told us on the occasion of the last

visit that hec#till wanta to tell.us about sone things going

‘on in the Cuban exile comaunisty in Miami, that some Cubans are ¢
‘buying arms and planning actions against CASTRO,-ete. He wants to
tell us, he said, tha we'll know and won't be surprised but he io
denies all part for himself in any such illegal actions, He does po
aot believe it possible, given internal and external conditions
tow prevailing, to overthrow CASTRO anytime soon but says if it
sere nossible, he would be the first to start preparations for

thet purpose. When we next go to Miami we will listen to what
sdditional he has to say,

5
:
t

4
2. Subject was for the writer the most interesting and perhaps . 4
she most vroductive of the Peonle we were assigned to interview. Pot
§ ‘his guy is cut from a different mold from the other 7. He is
Aeugh, fintelligent,. cunning, ‘shreud~, lacking in formal education, :
ut a real toughin-fighter who knows what he wants and knows how :
‘0 go about it. He is, too, I think, a real opportunist, and this :
lay explain in part his)reason forsgutting on the 6 Nov 61. Te :
‘xogram. I had the fe@ling repeatedly that he was not really
oaing Clean on many of our questions, but the only two questions.
© which he reacted noticeably:sere the ones about the TV programs
cnd Octavio BARROSO, These two visibly upset him-eventho I feel
i

e knew or thought they would be thrown at him and he had his
nswers prepared.

More about the TV Program and BAR0SO later.

3. This man started out as the Secreta
f£ Christain Workers (OTC), at one point belonged to the ARD( an
ssociation of young democratic People),

the MRP for a while,etc.
8 1959 he was named foreign relations secretary of the Confederation

at the election of officers in late
d his slate, a Communist slate for
Subject was required to turn over

ry-general of the Union

i
i
'
i

f£ Cuban Workers (CTC) ,however,
959 CASTRO showed up and impose
he most part on the congress.

Cy ot.

Lies wedge BEE OP RE td

    
 

‘oa-t0nt7-t0ta0

wet,

fae

 

wy

morensmmeinets rence QU eM EE ME E82 ETRE TC A PE PTA Eo nreattmaraanr erates HN
: ‘

C. Hopkins LACO/SP

. ut k
(rin ido Pegs?
CMO pet © der wy

FROM: (Name, org. symbol, Agency /Posty

+

a LACO/SP HOPKINS (for 201 file

hs Requested | | For Correction | Prepare Reply

Heer tee
Keorsination | Lusty ______

 

Keith, i
‘ Reports from Wade received, via Bill S.

6 June. Want you to see this right away,

particularly info in para 1. Para 3 info also

of interest. ALVAREZ is defector DCD had my

. Mame connected with. Other source(s) have made

this same comment about ALVAREZ. Shall forward
to you other reports of interest. .
Chris. H.

‘

 
 
  

Sosiei02 OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
. FU.S. 6.P.0. 1977-241~530/3050 PRIS Bro Seta 28

i
4
a

 

 

 
 

ime oo

=-2@

& Lo)

ado |
7 his post as foreign relations secretary to-Grtien-ALVAREZ. He

. and ALVAREZ had been on opposite ends politically in previous

Fy years, when ALVAREZ was working at the Chase Manhattan. Bank in

Tnen, when CASTRO came along he propelled ALVAREZ to the Post in
the CTC to which Subject had democratically been chosen, The -

of turning over his files to ALVAREZ was done in 1960, He knows
of course that ALVAREZ went on to other jobs, eventually to the
Cuban Embassy in Madrid, and eventually defected to the US, He
laims to have no use for ALVAREZ, he’s a A dedicated Commie and he
‘wouldn't trust ida, . . J
a ean ae AMCOAS-1 crell one carl aoe
4, Dr. Elena Mederos = is the aunt of PUJAL Mederos,s She is
currently working with the Human Kionts Commission in Washington,
OC, Subject says that some 30 years ago when he knew her pretty
well she was democratic or leftist in her politics but very left.
ist in her economics , He described her as a revolutitnary of a
Sort, with lots of prestige in Cuba in those days,

5. So far as he's a wa re there was only one Octavio BARROSO so
the one you're talking about is the Same one known to him, the

exactly
same

6. Subject was arrested on 11 October 1961 in a raid on the
Cesar Odio Farm, along with a number of other peopte. On 30 Septaber
1961 a woman belonging to his unit, Dalia JORGE, was arrested,
allegedly placing a bomb in a company there in Havana called CIA,
Subject was carrying documentation in alias but almost immediately
he was confronted with Dalia who identified him to G.2, But, the
most irportant evddence is the fact that over the next few days
and weeks those known to Dalia in that organization were arrested;
those not known to her were not. Although alledgedly arrested
Planting a bomb, she was almost immediately released and was 60o0n
walking the street. A few months later Dalia had married a lileutenante-
in Ge2, She later divorced the. lieutenant { whose name Subject could
not come up with) and then married Cazlos RUBIERA, a nephew of-
Vicente RUBIERA who lives in Miami » “lorida and works for the AFL/
10,

| 7. The TV program - why? It was the first such appearance by anyone

j arrested that could be called in favor of CASTRO,

|

|

®, The MRP had a pact amongst themselves, he claims, which stated

MLS: Fapste, Ogon ALV/REZ de la Campa y Sotolongo who defected_to- Ue. So

 

on mecencemaertmaemmene ems etn Ng Oe ah a an Rt te Rite EE te

oa

 

pepo amie

 

ae)

 
 

 

ee we ornynnt ste EES AT ow
+ an teem een weneenilepReRetN

tee en tne teeters eee ens oe
ameter taeda ne

that anyone Captured would not talk for 72 hours, to give those
still free ¢

ime to change hidding Places, etc, then one would be
permitted, if forced to, to tell minor things, things it was
thxought the Ge2 might already know,

He was taken to @ place referred to as POINT X and stripped
i ogated almost continuously, lights were kept
mace acainst him, He could hear

im in the MRP,

Mirister of Foreign elations, but then just a secretary to the
Ministry of Interior. MALMIERCA was assisted at times by Lt.
ALFONSO (fnu), @pparently an assistant to MALMIERCA, who was much
More intelligent and much better trained than MALMIERCA, The

latter did a poor job and got little out of Subject but ALFONSO
did a much better job .

ct and others of the

them, VALDEZ said, would
is organization had been
oO CASTYO was, and at the
y in antieCastRo efforts,

eld just a few days before his capture, However, the student and
orkers'* representatives at th.

o appear on 4 October 1961, and VALDEZ had fou

lans, through Dalia, >ubje, Claims -
room, which had been

reperly prepared and an escape route worked out, just prior to

© ceremony. Of the three, one guy, Antonio VALADELO Vaciana got

‘old feet and took off for the States instead, Raul VENTA DeL

for some reason not
fRown to Subject, and the third man, whose name he could not
emenber, apparently did not go up to the room either,

i
i
i
i

FO ee ene nem el it

 

 

 
