74-00000

il

 

assumed that, if Itkin were to be tried in the state court, F. Lee
Bailey would not hesitate to use any available methods to embarrass
the United States Government in such a way as to influence the
decision of the jury and also generate public interest to assist in
the future sales of Itkin's book,

4, Mr. Warner then°bx lained the elements of concern which
required the debriefing of in, Frankfurt in mid-February,
resulting in the conclusion tha was leveling with his Agency
contacts on his relationships with Itkin, | stated categorically
that_he had never discussed his association with CIA with Itkin and,

 

 

 

 

 

to knowledge, Itkin was not aware of CIA employ-
ment, Further discussion evolved around people who are knowl-
edgeable o relationship to CIA, These include (a) members

of the U.S, Attorney's office, (b) members of the New York County
District Attorney's office, (c) the New York FBI office, and (d) we
must assume that Itkin himself is aware of CIA affiliation.
It was concluded that although the number of knowledgeable persons
appears large, the circumstances as they exist today, i.e., that
Itkin will not be brought to trial in the New York State court, seem
to have removed any forum or need for divulging this information
by any of the above. The residual problem of Barnard Collier's
publishing his long feature article on Itkin was raised, and there

is no way of estimating whether Collier is aware of CIA
affiliation, °

5. Mr. Geaslin asked the question of whether we felt there
was any subversive connection with any of the people related to the
case which could Cc on cra affiliation to Communist

 

Party elements in It was concluded that on that particular
question Mr, Rocca of the CI Staff would be in the best position to
evaluate that aspect, and his counsel should be sought on that matter,

 

6. Mr. Milligan raised the question as to the type of cover
to be used by ‘Sn his assignment, and it was agreed
between him and Mr. Geaslin that the suitability of cover had to be
reassessed at this time.

7. Mr. Warner suggested that the participation of OGC in
this case as it relates a to be concluded, although

 

 

   
 

‘toa t0407-10070

ot

ppl

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only . -
Do Not Reproduce OGC 69-0552

26 March 1969

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
ek

SUBJECT: i

 

 

 

2
i, On 25 March 1969, a meeting took place in Mr.” Warner's
office attended by Messrs. Milligan and Heinonen of CCS {LPGLOBE,
Mr, Jack Geaslin, Chief, European Division/France, Mr. Warner
and the undersigned, to discuss the ramifications of
ssignment to Paris.

 

2. Mr. Warner began’the meeting by giving Mr. Geaslin a
chronology covering (a) relationship with Itkin, (b) Itkin's
relationship with CIA, (c) Itkin's relationship with the FBI, (d) Itkin's
indictment in the New York State court, (e) Itkin's potential use as
a witness for the prosecution in the federal court against organized
criminals, and (f) the Itkin involvement with F, Lee Bailey and the
possible publicity attendant thereto,

3. It was then explained that following a meeting with Messrs.
Hogan, Morgenthau, Kossack and Houston, it was agreed that Itkin
would plead guilty to two misdemeanors in the New York State court
and receive a suspended sentence, In return, the State of New York
would withdraw its motion to remand Itkin for trial currently pending
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, These maneuvers would result in Itkin's being available for
use as a Government witness in future cases and his credibility not
being subject to attack by the future defendants based on his New
York State trial, Mr. Warner further explained that this latest
development would appear to have taken the heat off.and removed
the need for involving CIA and possibly exposingf affiliation
to CIA, It was further explained that there had been indications that
Morgenthau's office and the FBI were attempting to inflate Itkin's
past affiliations with CIA in an attempt to demonstrate his dedication
and to remove the aspect of criminal intent. It had also been
74-00000

ny

 

it was suggested that Mr. Geaslin maintain a tickler to recontact
OGC at least every six months to ascertain whether the New York
problems were still in a status quo or were in fact heating up again.
It was agreed that OGC would attempt to determine if in fact the
suggested steps of Itkin's guilty plea and the removal of the State
OGC: JKG:bt

motion to remand had taken place.

HN K, GR

stant General sel
Distribution; 0%

vr Orig. subj file
1 - JKG signer
1 - Chrono

cc: CCS/LPGLOBE
C/E/F
C/CI/R&A
D/Security

 

 

 
