74-0000

La
w

 

can oF , a ‘4

OB otra bit opts.
Deceaber 1999 a FP eat yt 3G |

.
. .
. MACE & an 1 :
. & BATE Teceat-r 1559} ) ELD REPORT NO. .
i SOURCE EVALUANONS ALE O£finati

Apraassai Gr CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE.

sousce, [Can Averican (BL, from an official of Une Ieracli Ministry of Lefense (F).) ] ov
Apprateal of Contents 3.

Headquarters Comment. In view of the origin of the information, 1t must 7 é
bevread VIth etme reserve.

 

‘
i. an firm, Al-Nasir Treding either may be coliaborating 4
with UAR Intelligence or waa established by the UAR Government to finans . \
military intelligence operations not covered by the regular bu¢get. Tne
stor-general of the firm, Lt. Colonel MulLammad Ghanin is an officer] of
in the countereepiona.e: branch of Military Intelligeite;arave military
I pays pend doae not appear to touch the profita of the company.4) .

1
@.° Lt. Colone) Ghanim fe rumored to have said he vas instrumental in the - '
oxganiging of the Beimt uprising for waich purpose se used the nicse of : :
Muhammad al-Mssri., <s has ministerial status and belongs to the inner : 5
eircles of Preeicent Jamal ‘Abd-al-Hasir. (His imzediate auperior is :
‘Abmad Khafafi.|) Chanim maintains an account in hia neme at the Banque
Ob Ugenevotse de Comerce ot de Credit. He traveled in Vestern Burope during
Wovember 1959; vas in Geneva, Switzerland on 1 November; in Paris oa
§ November frum where he went to Brussels efter a few days.

' *3. he Al-Nasir Trading Company is chiefly engaged in the marketing of rice
. and cotton. Cotvon exported by the company, on the basia of government
allocations, is veven percent of the total Fgyptian export in this field.
.: Gee firm is represented in Geneva and Paris by the E1rstern Company over
which it acquired control for the purpose of cotton export. One of its

manegers is ‘Abd-al—Azim Hisayni, who makes occasional business trips to :
Burcpe. : .¢

ceceweaemnmemin nt

“a. Headquarters Cement. A report of saziy January i$60 from unother-
gource and sree reported, t the Al-Nasir Trading Company wes re-

. portedly (én Egyptian Intelligence cover fimJand that ite manager,
Tadheosnad!'

~: 4 :
ta, hed opened an account in tlie Banque: Genevolee de a
Commerce et de Credit. This report stated that Ghauim had been in
Geneve pn 8 Rovenber 1959, in_Paris.on 11 November, and in Brussels 4
S-E-C-R-E-T/ GF ORK/CONTIRUED ‘CONTROL

 

   
  

        

USUI 9 ARAN TOL

ee ee ee

      

HINTIE ODE

pera reee

ATOR Re POR ©

ieee a tw of Semcon come

 

 

i.
 

re

Onset

 

 

 

 

 

Pais iaqhasta: exnsesns tefemnsticn ollesting tie Basinei Deteas of tas Comet Sons eeiats whe mening
A USE Gere TS ond 064 tse tmaamemca OF GrrmOMED af HOMe in Gay Hesner Ww on Yaouiberses
S-E-C-R-Z-T
WOFORK/ CONTINUED CONTROL

&

the Bepemnnte Lowa, Tule
pecuag a grenuBriaé BY tee.

 

Ccountey UAB

terest WO, «CS 3/449, 127 - F a
i SURECT (Laternterncelactivitios of the ATE OxSTR

33 September 1960

j
Alelasir Trading > . .
ges ree
erenences «= «RD. . ; ;

 

adquarters. Comment. ‘Thisireport’ qupplenents C5~3/427,819 from the
: ae. . ° choo

Ee teksty
GOMES GOUPCE.: Shed ay wee ary

nr ney

1. T:dyne-July.1960, therprofite éf the Al-Nasir Trading Company were being 7)

transferred (ta @ special government fund for financing elandestine operations.
"| dhe UAR Gove: nat vas also employing the company for its "{iiegal" transe
actions, such as trade with France, ca the tris ot' a commission fee of
10 percent. Eecr*ten security. officer jis reported to have said in June
that the company haa been ehipping arms from Sucz Cenal ports to South (1%)
Africa for distribution in Africen countries for use py anti-European ine
gurgeate..: an . . os Los
“ * . . . .

_ 2. Wt. Colonel Muhammad Ghagip, the director of the Al-Nasir Trading Company,

ves reported to have éngaged

a hie previous : aT

aseignment as manager of the Niel Company“ in Beirut. 1 -

1. Ee re Comment. Probably identical vith.the Milefublicity - :
fessor. , <— wen ae

 

a RETURN TO CIA
7 - Background Use Only”
Do Not Reproduce

Lu.
