 

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI~316/01233-64

-9-
FORK IE
" OFFICER: CASE: .
SECTION: , wo
COVER ELEMENTS Oe \

1. What persons know of his revolutionary activities?

2. What attitude must the agent take with each of thea? \

3. What must we do to back up the agent's attitude? : a

4. What family members or persons who know ‘him does the agent have in.
the counterrevolution er the reaction?

Mention names and degree of relationship or friendship only.
- Additional’ general information appears in Form No. 1.

S. What family members or counterrevolutionary or reactionary persons
who know him does the source ‘have in the Republic of Cuba or abroad
who would build up and support his cover? (the same)

6. What family members of revolutionary persons who know him does the
agent have in Cuba or abroad who would not build up his counter-
revolutionary cover? (the same),

7. What concrete facts bear witness to the agent's cover?

8. In what way does the agent explain to the enemy the revolutionary
attitude of his closest family members (if he has any)?

9. How will the agent explain the form in which he obtains his living
to his closest family members in the country? (if they were to be
paid for by us?)

10. How does he explRin and how will the agent develop his activities
during the period that he is in our care in the country?

11. What attitude must the agent take when the moment arrives when he
is exposed by the enemy? What explanation has he prepared?

12. How would he inform us (in case of being caught in flagranti}?

13. CONCLUSIONS OF THE OFFICER:

NOTE: The officer's conclusions should have constituted the
reliminary cover plan of the case.

 

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

-10=
OPERATIONAL FILE
FORM U1

Lists of Elemerts Necessary for the Technical Instruction of Agents
oilaboraters.

  

Chapter I. Personal Data.
a. Age.”
b. Technical training. Details of it. . ; .
ce. Cultural training. Details of it.

dg. Profession or office he knows, Details of it.

e. Personal tastes or preferred hobby: artistic, cultural, sport,

scientific.

f£. Physical conditions or defects they

have. Details of them.
Illnesses they have. : . -

-
g. Visible scars and tatoos that he has.-
oh, Personal traits.

1. Height.

2. Color of hair, skin. cyes.

3. Weight.

Chapter IT. Information on the Region or City of the Country Where He
oriorm His Work. —_

a. In what country will his work be done?

b. In what city, town, or region of the country will he work
principally?

Explain whether he knows the place where he will perform his
work?

1. How many years has he Tived in that place?

2. Whether the place as plain, mountainous, coastal, lake,
populous.

3. Tradition of the place.

4. To what is the place primarily devoted: Labor, artistic,

social activity? . :

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSE
 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01 233-64

-8~
22. ¢Friends and relatives in Cuba and abroad. =
. a
a. Intimate friends. Give details of cach, including surname
and first names, places of work and
b. Less intimate friends. address, the opinion they have of the
. candidate from the political and moral
¢. Social relations, | viewpoint. ¢

27. Countries he has visited. (See item 12 of this form.)

28, Languages he knows in addition to his own (much, normal).

29. Relations with revolutionary elements. (Give names.) ~

-30. F .ation with the counterrevolution in Cuba.

(Give names, types of connection, their activities, where he _
knew them, when, through whom, addresses, opinion they have of
the candidate?) (Give examples)

31. Relations with counterrevolutionaries abroad. (See preceding
paragraph for details. .

32. Relations abroad with non-revolutionary elements of the bourgeoisie.
ee the preceding paragrap or details. .

33. Persons who know of his revolutiomry activities.

(Details or to what extent they go.) The political opinion they
have of the candidate. .

34. Persons who know of his connection with the DSE2 or with us, Positive
and negative aspects of the candidate. (FiTYT out Form 12 and keep

it up to date.)

35. Motivation for being an agent.

36. Weakness of the candidate.

This is a section which is always to be kept open for items that are
picked up or ‘interpreted in the development of the case.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

14.

15.
16.
17.

18.

19.
20.

21.
22.
23.
24.

25.

_ SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI~316/01233-64

-T~

Matrimonial problems.

“a. Whether the spouse is jealous. :

b. Matrimonial faithfulness of the spouse.

ec. Whether there are sexual disturbances in the spouse. : .
d. Other.
Family probleas. .

Economic problems in general.
Paychological make-up of the candidate.

(Psychological analysis and corroboration by means of psychiatry.)

Current preoccupation of the candidate.
(Economic, moral, family, and others.)
Aspirations and plans of the candidate.
Tastes and personal preferences.

a. Degree of sexuality.
b. Others.

Whether he is objective or subjective, (Give examples.)

Whether he is vacillating or decisive. (Give examples.)

His personal courage. (Give examples)

Family of the candidate (brothers, uncles, nephews, cousins, close
relatives, with surnames, first names, ages, place of birth, place
of work, political. position of each, as well as the opinion they
have of the candidate). And whether he is known by his family members

as revolutionary.
a. In Cuba.

b. Abroad. .

Family of the candidate's spouse.

‘a. In Cuba. -. .

b. Abroad.

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 
 

5.

. SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

-5--..
, OPERATIONAL FILE

- — FORM_NO. I
‘Information to bo filled-out on the candidate.

Personal data of the candidate, 9 _—
Surname and first names: :
Nicknames: ,

Photographs:

Citizenship:

Surnames and first names of parents (two first names), age, domicile,
and place of birth.

Domicile of the candidate (complete details and telephones).

Place of employment of the candidate, name of the work center,
complete address. ‘

Wage he earns.
Civil status of the candidato, name’of spouse, number of children,

_ their names and dates. of birth.

Personal description of the candidate.

Height, weight, color of skin, eyes, visible or special marks, type
of scar, habits or physical defects or physical traits which are
outstanding. Intelligence Quotient.

Cultural level. :

Technical level.

Economic level. .
Economic entree of the closest family members who live with the
candidate, :

Political level (political position, ideology, and social class).

 

SECRE-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

il.

122,

13.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

-6-
State of health (present and past), And of his father and mother.

If he has ever been operated on, for what and where,. other ilinesses
(syphilis, epilepsy, hereditary diseases).

Short history of his political activities. With whom has he been
connnected in the revolutionary struggte and, who oriented hin. Name
of the comrades who participated in his tirst political activities -
{before and after the triumph of the revolution if they are Cuban).

Short history of his studies. (Place and dates where they were made).

Who were his teachers and his comrades in the classroom and of studies
in his class. (See whether they are of any interest to us.)

Short history of his cconomle situation. And that of his parents
and closest tantly members . : .

Short history of the places where he has worked.

Who were his chiefs and comrades who are interesting to us, why he
gave up individual jobs.

Short history of the places where he has lived.

And names of persons who knew him in the places where he lived.
Mention any revolutionaries who know of his activities and can
inform us of them. (As part of the requirement of the agent it is
regulation if he is a foreigner that he should describe the
operational situatiun in his country aud in those he knows, in full
detail and caretully explained; if he is Cuban, he should describe
the countries where he has lived. In addition, the sub-officor
should continue questioning the agent on the operational situation
and develop it all the time the agent remains in training,)

Intimate aspects of the candidate's life,

a. Defects and weaknesses.

b. Temperament and character.
ec. Habits and customs.
d. Hobbies,

e. Marital relations.

f. Sexual problems: lovers, fiancees, normal or other relations,
satisfactory or not...

Relationship with spouse, children, and parents. Sexual,
political, or maniy influence on the spouse, or vice versa,

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

o

a,

v.
Ce
dy
@e

ft.

ec.

~RuUnRE:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

=2-

File card. Development Fora No, 1 (the 36 points).

“ autobiography.

Investigations roquested.

Investigations completed,

Cover (see Fora No. 2) and confirmation of it, or plans in liew of.

Conclusions (so far he is a candidato and therefore a case in
planning).

NOTE: if the agent is foreign, information must be included on-
the operational situation in his country and also in the

countries he khows personally.

 

beginning with that of

    

recruitment.

Plan.

Report on development of partial Plans of aspects which must be
covered in the case.

Monthly reports (sce Form No. 9).

Interviews (numbered).

a.

be.

‘Connections of the Agent.

Page for control of persons who appear in the case (Form No. 10).
Persons with access to information and with whom he will start
his penetration work (full individual biographies should be
included, stating the access to information in each instance,

his degree of friendship with the agent, and the influence the
agent exercises on these persons).

Candidates to be recruited. (Same)
Family -members (who are not included under bor c).

Connections without immediate interest.

Comments: In general, the greatest possible amount of information

should be obtained on each person, using our own means
and the source of the case during the course of our
attention to it. This will aid in developing the case
operationally and will’ permit us to make objective plans
for the persons who interest us; and at the same time,
with it we will have a greater control of the agent
(Form NG. 1 should be applied wherever possible).

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

‘CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The motertel contains taformation agecting the National Defenes of the Caited Statse within the wasting of the Raplonsge Laws, Title
and TH. the trenemisica of revelation of which im any manner to 4h unsuthorieed perups la prohibited by lew.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

; county Cuba
suwect Cuban Intelligence File System
RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4 Washington,. D. c.
nite. October 1964

 

REPORT NO,
DATE DISTR.
NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

__ FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS 1$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATEVE.

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service vuntil April 1964..-

Headquarters Comment

The following is a translation of a document supplied by source,
It is a set of forms used by the Cuban foreign intelligence
service, the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion
General de Intelligencia - DGI), for keeping. records of its
The forms cover evaulation, recruitment, and performance

during employment.

GUIDE TO RECORD KEEPING ~

OPERATIONAL FILE

 

SUBJECT:. Directions to Operations Officers for the Establishment
and Maintenance of Records (2 files) of:
Planning, Cases in Training and in Effect.

Material received for assessment of the candidate.

CLI~316/01 233-64
19 October 1964

. CS=311/00115-64
8 July 1964

 

Corroboratory plans for deciding on the recruitment and use
of the candidate.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ee

 

 

 

 
 
   

 
 
  

 

 

 

  

$O PROJECT ( AMMUG 1:
CSCI-316/01233-6
74-0000

an a ; SECRET
: . . NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

. ~~

6. Conpromising Elements.

Reports from “A manuscripts and typesriting (which do not

a.
correspond to sections 5 and 8).

b&b. Photographs.

©. Recordings. \

dad. Every type of compromising documents (receipts signed by the
candidate for sums given him, oaths, etc.).

7. Operational Technique.

a. Telephone check.

 

\

b. Mail check.
¢. Personal and other checks.
NOTE: These checks must be approved by the department chief, and

the microphone operator, by the chief or deputy chief of
the General Directorate. —

8. Operational Preparation.
a. Plans. i
b&b. Practice of "A".}
c. Reports of the result.
9. Technical Preparation.
a. Development Form No. 3.
b. Plans of classes and development.
ce. Reports and results of the apprenticeship, (The case officer
is responsible along with the technical instructor for a guarantee

as to whether the agent can communicate or -not- Both must sign
a document assuming responsibility.)

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
74-0000

 

II.

i.

Iv.

ve

vi.

VII.

. ia 7
Monthly Summary of the Case.

 

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN PISSEM CSC1-316/01233-64_

~4-

PART_IT
File No.2

Work Plan. —
Development Form No. 4.

Sketch Diagram with Indication of the Means Osed.

A. Communications Plan.

Messages, Received

tee Form No. 5 and No. 6.
Message s Sent.
See Form No. 7 and No. &.

Operational Technique.

See Form No. 9.

B. Semiannual Review of the Case.
Internal Communications,

A. Operational.

B. Administrative,

LONG LIVE OUR SOCIALIST REVOLUTION
"WE WILL WIN"

tegen

ite
cer Sas]

  

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 
