74-0000

ae Rone tt emenetncerriete hana RtoRRTB Ice ar arte (man HINO MEN DS LIMA MERE apne nem boca Ate

r

' d !
4 :
| f
i
: _ SECRET 4
: oy
3

  
   
   
   

2.

«4

ky To take the chill off the conversation, I thanked Nice for the
cooperation we had received from hin and his Eureau on the matter of the
exfiltration of the five former BXAC officials fron Cuba. I also asked
hin if a letter of appreciation on tris matter right be welcome. He ¢
replied that it might be better if I consulted the Alien Branch of. the:
Office of Security on this since too nany letters of this sort might .
cause eyebrows to be raised at IMS = and that trere vere rumors that he
might be shifted to another Position, I said that I was sorry to hear’
this, but hoped that if true it might be to a less difficult and more
Yeuarding job. oo

 

  

 

 

;
!

<i
o>
a
re
Raaaaeed
csmiiubiousiapaaninn a Lack. waitnlaneione- fice eet

 
 

104-10467-10256] - > . .

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

|

a

es SECRET |
: |

Memorandum of Conversation — i

DATE: 10 July 1959
i

SuBlect + Telephone Conversation with Herbert Nice, Director of Intel gence, .
Bureau of Innigratione

PARTICIPANTS: Herbert ice af :
. t

 

~
CORES TO +:
2. At 1600 on 9 July I returned Mr. Rice's call. He said that they - - >>
hed been told by the State Decartment thet Pedro Tuis DIAZ Lang, former a

ehief of the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force, was no longer available.to the

people who wanted to see him. He said that;official stant of INS on the oe
- matter is that DIAZ Lanz hes been adwitted as a resident alien and that 1

INS cannot be exvected to keep track of him since this is a free country.

He also seid that unefficially he wanted to infors me that DIAZ Lans is

under subpoena te the Senate Internal Security Subcomiittee and that we

could get in touch with him by contacting the Committee's offices. I
thanked hin for the infermation and said | that I would refer the matter
to ay supervisors immediately.

2. I noticed that the conversational tone used by Bice in valting ce :
me the above was somewhat fornal, and believe that this c2ll was otviously :

for the record. Re-enfcreing my belief is the fact that Nice said the had

- @alled me outside cf customary Liaison channels because he wanted to make

sure that the man who would have to do the vork involved would be aware

of the situations .

pov oe 30 I asked him then if his seaning was that we could invite due.
ae Lans to be our voluntary guest for the pericd of tine necessary for the .
intelligence community to debrief hir, and he agreed that this waa ithe,
eases I told him that we had only learned that DIAZ was being brought -
Lo, ; te Washington yesterday afternoon and that there were many: intelligence .
wet ' -  wequirements involved in the matter which we had not had ‘safticient tine
ae : . te Pouch to our pan in Mint.

 

 

 

rape in Seer;
Te waco Do Net eprocuee

 

 

  
