13-00000
OE RET EYES ely

Nestor Sanchez save the pen to Cubele in Paris on 22 November 9 Cc
1963. Ironically, at the” very noment ‘President Kennedy was shot
in Dallas a CIA officer was meeting with a Cuban agent in Paris
‘and giving him ag assassination device for use against Castro.

Cubela did not think much of the pen device and asked instead
to be. supplied with a powered rifle with. telescopic sight. He
later amended this request to include a silencer. - The Agency
contrivea to put Cubela in ‘touch with Manuel Artime, and Artime
gave Cuvela a silenced pistol anda silenced rifle.. The ‘gency
also put down two caches in Cuba for Cubela, one with rifles ana

; one without. 7 ‘ a .
; The Agency decided to terminate all contacts with Cubela and
the members of his group in June 1965, primarily because they

were Loose-nouthed, and it had by then become apparent that ‘Cubela’ 2

 

” had no ‘notion of carrying out any of bis. grandiose schemes for '

getting Castro. Cubela was arrested in Cuba in March 1966, was
‘tried, convicted, and sertenced to 25 years imprisonment. It is

likely that Cubela told Castro the full story.

-

vy

 
Fhase 2 again involved the administration of botulinum, but
the Cuben geroling elensit was elizinated because the casinos had
been closed by then. Roselli worked instead through Tony Varona,

a Cuban exile leader who had becoue disenchanted by his prior
dealings with the Agency. In return for his ccoperation, Verona
requested about _ $5,000 ; worth of arms, ammunition, and related
equizzent, ‘which vere given to bin. He claimed that he had
dispatched a team to Cuba with the pills in June 1962. Nothing yo
happened. MSIE oS EA EORAS td CS Baie oLESO A Solana TOO UC ISCRAGIN- DALE Ts DECELAEAL ONG

IGE Enos Sonos Varona reported in September, 1962 that

7 he was ready to send in another team of three men to. penetrate

Castro's bodyguard. They never actually left. Harvey gave Roselli

$2,700: in December 1962 for passing to Varona for the expenses of

the’ three militia nen. ‘Harvey and Roselli agreed in. January 1963

that the operation was hopeless YH{ and called it off.
: _ Schemes in Early 1963
At about the time of the Donovan-Castro negotiations ‘for the
release of ‘the Bay of Pigs prisoners a plan was devised to have ©
Donovan present a conteminated skin diving suit to Castro as a

MEMY gift. This scheme progressed to the point of actually buying

L

4a

A

a diving suit and readying it for delivery: Toe technique involved “

. 4
dusting the inside of the suit with a fungus that would produce a

disabling and chronic skin diseas (Madura foot) and conteninating -

the breathing apparatus with tubercle bacilli. Tne plan was

 

 
a

abandoned because it was overtaken by events: Donovan hed

already given Castro a skin diving suit on his.owm initiative.
’ Desmond FitzGerald origivated a scheme. for doing Mil away

el .
with Castro by means ofan explosives-rigged sea shell. The

|
|
i
: .
idea was to take an unusually spectacular sea skell that would C

. . wath :
be certain to catch Castro's eye, load it yas an explosive

- area where Castro‘often went skin diving. The scheme was

|
|
triggered to blow when the shell was lifted, and sutmberge it’an an | _

abandoned, primarily because the midget subuarine that would

have had to be used in enplacezent of the shell had too, ‘Short an, : |

. operating range for such an operation.

Project AvTASE - Rolandé Cubela ; ae
‘Rolando Cubela was a major in the Cuvan army, the highest . q
* a |

Cuban military rank. He was once close to Castro but had become

| @isuffected. He was first met in Mexico City in March 1961.

He attended the Helsinki Youth Festival in August 1962 and was
net there and’ subsequently in Stockholm, Copenhegen, and Paris...

He was reeruited and was given secret writing and demolitions

, training. On a trip to Paris in October 1963 he asked for

high-level assurance of US support. Des FitzGerald met with hin >

there, ostensibly acting as a personal emissery of Robert Kennedy,
. L \

. yt

At the request of SAS, Dr. Gunn rigged a ball point pen to serve

es a hypodermic syringe. Cubela was to load it with Black Leaf 40.

 
After Bill Harvey left Task Force W and was winding up his
headquarters responsibilities in wee preparation for

assignment to Rome, he wrote a memorandum to the Chief, FI Stare,

dated 27 June 1963, stating that the original justification for - a

aw

employing Qywiit no longer existed and raising the question of

QIWIN's termination. The records show that QJWIN was terminated

by the Luxembourg Station on 21 April 1964. There is no indication

in the file that the Executive Action EXOG2 Capability of

ZRRIFLE/ QIN was ever used.

Y

~

 
104-10310-10259

4

 

-

HIGHLY SENSITIVE ACTIVITIES C

’
f

‘Project TRRIFLE. . |

ae

Early in the Kennedy administration, "the Waite House

urged Richara Bissell to create an Executive Action capability;
i.e.,; a general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations.
The Executive Action program came to be known as @RRIFLE. Its
principal abset was an agent, gran, who had been reeruited earlier

a
by Arnora Silver for use in a special operation in the Congo 4
ELE >

(the assassination of Patrice Lunuaaba) to be run by Justin O'Donnell. q
EAA ET EES

O'Donnell nade a suey of the scene, decided he wanted no part
in an assassi nation attempt, and asked to be released, dbten
Bissell granted.

, The project rame, ZRRIFLZ, first appears in the files in

May 1961, although the first recorded approval is dated 19 February

1962.° The new DD/P (Helms) on that date authorized William vO

Hervey, by memorandum, to handle the project on a special basis.

Accounting for’ expen nd tures was to be by general category and on

‘Harvey's certification.

_. ZRRIFLE was not exercised in the Congc, because Lumumba was

resioved from the scene by other varties. It did, however, find Co
. . . Kw.
épplicaticn against Fidel Castro in a conspiracy to assassinate >
a.
or to incapacitate hin that was already under way under other
\ :
auspices.

 

a . is ; t . vi
13-00000

SECHET _ EYES Gur y-

‘Fidel Castro

; During the period beginning about March 1960 and extending
through June 1965, the Agency engaged in a series of schemes to Va
bring about the death or incapacitation of Fidel Castro. These —

are those of which this office is aware.

Miscellaneous Schezmes Prior to August 1950

 

A scheme was discussed involving contamination of the air
of the radio studio where (Castro broadcast his speeches with an
“

aerosol spray of a chemt cal that produces 1 reactions similar to wv

those of ISD. ‘Nothing came of the idea, because the chemical

. : could not be relied: upon to be effective. : sf : .
Bo — A AL box of Castro's fevorite brand of cigars was sepue(
co a with vetulinus. “The ‘scheme was abandoned, because there was no wey vr .
of assuring that. only Castro would smoke them. , ,

A third scheme was related to a trid Castro planned to

—— a ve

make ous, of Cuba. qoal1ium salts, a ‘chemical used by women as _ : “
a depil®tory, were to be dusted into his shoes, thus causing his
symbolic beard to fall out. Castro did not make the planned trip.

/ Gambling Syndicate - Phase 1’ .

- The Director of Security gives a reasonably 4 sull account of
this episode in his contribution. In brief, the Agency Hrboltt_teap tral £ . ra
used US efriminal elenents that. controlled the gambling casinos
in Cuba in an attempt to assassinate Castro. He was to be .

poisoned by tablets of botulinum placed in his food or drink.

‘SECRET «2 BES TRY
a time) a prominent figure in the entourage of Howard Eughes.

‘were Jobn Roselli (involved with Willie, Bioff in an attempted . “

. shakedown of the wovie: industry) » Sam Giancana (reportedly Capone's

O'Connell remained in the operation for a brief period while the

The Agency contacted the criminal element s through Robert Maheu,

then a clearea contact of the office of Securit ty and later (for

The Mafia members known to have been involved in the operation

a

v

successor. in Chicago) » and Santos Trafficante (the kingpin of.

Cuban gambling). Those inside Cuba who were to administer the

_ poison reportedly got cold feet. This phase ended with the feilure

of the Bay of Pigs operation. Drew Pearson knew rany of; the details.
Gambling Syndicate '~ Phase 2.

The gambling syndicate operation renained dormant until

“Noveuber 1961 when Bissell instructed Williaw Harvey to > take .

charge of it. Harvey W was busy on other things at the time and.

was unable to- give’ it any att tention until February 1962. After “

Harvey took ‘aver the Castro operation, he ran “it as one aspect of . ;
ZRRIFLE; 3 “hovevery he personally handled the castro operation. i Cc]
end aid not use any of the assets being developed in ZRRIFLE.

Farvey and James C'Connell, the Office of Security case £

. OO 4
officer for Phase 1, met Roselli in New Yor City in April 1962. ‘ \

transfer to Harvey was being accomplished.

 
