 

-and very hard worker, one of the few, according to Al

~S-

p. Rank of Cuban officials under Fidel tn teras of
their influence in making national policy. Raal is still
the heir apparent to Fidel. Next to Paul te Che Guevara.
After that, no other official, according to AMLASH-1, bas
any gréat influence in the making of Cuban national policy.
President Dorticos' yelatdonship with Fidel 1s good since
he fe a hard and serious worker, has good sdaintetrative —
ability aid te able to work within the général outline laid
down: by Fidel, Raul Castro has some political influesce

‘and. ¢ontrol ‘in Oriente where he has placed hig men 18
é !

oni Influence, but only Fidel personally has any
political in @ in the rest of Cuba. Even within the.
military Fidel selects and appoints high arzy officeras -...
: : still strong in the economic field and
has ‘pot suff “g decline in his influence and authority
because of his earlier policy of industrialization.
Gdevara restricts himself to the economic field and plays

a very small role im the political field. He is serious
MLASH-1,

positions ¢

  

   

 

 

who has worked seven days a week without leave since the
revolution, Emilio Aragones holds an important position

ag the organizational secretary of the PURS. He ia the
official who was always at the office of the National
Directorate of tho Party and has contact with al} the
officials in the regime. He plays an important coordinating
role, Faure Chomou has been accused of organizing former
13th of March Revolutionary Directorate people, but,
according to AMLASH-1, this probably based on the fact that
Chomon always gives jobs in the ministry he heads to DR
people, Becauss of this Chomon today controls to a large
degree the Ministry of Transportation. Of all the ministries,
the DR’s stronghold is in the Ministry of Transportation,
Other DR people who continue to hnold important positions

in the regime are Alberto Hora, Ambassador Carrillo and

Jose Naranjo.

q. AMLASH-1 and AMWHIP-1 were unable to develop any
specifics, but from their conversations with Ambassador
Carrillo got the impression that Carrillo would prefer and
velcome a transfer from the Embassy 1p Paris to the

Embassy in Madrid.

yr. According to Eatlio Aragoses, Anibal Escalante
is being considered for a job outside Cuba, The job will
probably be in the commercial/economic field, but a
decision had not been made as of November 1964 as to

location,
 

 

 

-o-
a.. AMLASH-1 again reported that he ‘toots|
Consul of the Cuban Exibassy i

approachable since he 1s with the Guben regise.

AMLASH-1 also feels :

Cuban Ambassador in

loped. by the right pers

-. asgigned to the ‘commercial section
at) AMLASH-1 feela is also approachable and feels

     
 
   
 

 

 

 

    

EES could easily be entangled according to AMLASH-1 in
a compromising situation. Ambassador Carrillo is a close
friend of Lucy Echevarria. .

2, AMLASH-1 was also asked information on a. long list
of other requirements on Cuba. On wany hé.was unable to pro-
vide information and cables were sent to Headquarters on the
requirements on which he did provide information.

  

 

Nestor D. Sanches
WH/ 8A/ AMWORLD

ce: WH/SA/EOB
wel ap ere

Files

AMLASH-1 201

Internal Op
14-00000

\e.

i)

oe

ake ‘

c, AMLASH-1 was given a resupply of S/W developer
pills and carbon, He planned to take the S/W material 5-4
back with him to Havana. 0¢ AMLASH-1 again reviewed wit ; (
WNSNAFU-9 and reminded (UNSNAFU-9 to turn over to his Part
case officer all letters regardless of how received. frou
AULASH-1 to oither USNAFU-9 or letters that may be addressed
to his parents-in-law°? ANLASH-1 algo agreed to send 8/#
out in letters addressed to Juan Ventura (AMWHIP.j's : 7.
business partner) in Geneva or Rome, AHWHIP-1 waa briefed
to inform Ventura that any letters he recéived from :
ANLASH-1 should be immediately air mailed to ANWHIP-1
“in New York, - Since ANLASH-1 will probably find it
necessary some time not to sign the letters to Ventura
in his tiue name, ANWHIP-1 was also briefed to tnfora
Ventura to forward to New York any letter received from .
Caba. addressed to bia and Signed by a person unknown to :
hiv, S/W letters to AMLASH-} should continike 04,08

19 }

addressed to
In ’an emergency a letter can also
gent to SH-i's mother, ;

 

 

-d,  AMLASH-1 was again debriefed on the cache that had '
been put down for him in Matanzes, He repeated what he :
had previously reported and attempted to answer most of
the questions in the AAV cable, A cable on this subject
was sent from (Paris)'to Headquarters, info WAVE, on 2 Feb,

AMLASH-1 was requested to send a message either through
his channet or through ANTRUNK-10's S/W chennel reporting
how much of the radio equipment and other material had
been recovered fron the cache,

©. ALASH-1 was asked if he knew of any individual in
Cuba whom he could recruit and who could be inserted. into
the Cuban Intelligence Service with the idea of attempting
to get the DGI to assign this man to Caracas, Venezuela,
AMLASE-1 couj one possibility, an individual
known a AULASH-1I bas full confidence
as previously been approached on
tasicns by Pinero to work for him. Upon hig 06
return to Cuba AMLASH-1 will check to find out if has
can still get himself recruited by Pinero and then “be Deel *
sent on a mission abroad, hopeful ly to Caracas. CAMWHIB. 1, we.
who also knows will pruvide the backgroind infor

  
 
 
    

 

 

 

 

‘mation upon his Féturn to New York, )

f. AMLASH-1 reported on the upcoming FEU elections
on 10 February 1965, AKLASH-1 stated that Crombet, the
president of the Communist Youth, will become the new

 
104-10247-10097

”

~

 

*

 

Ups

, ANTO CIA
paokground Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
-
a, be et if? -f Ch |
18 February 1965 j
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD . . i

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMLASH,
3

H-1 in Paris,
1 January to 3 February 1965

=
<J
o
a
@
4
ee
°
if
Fy
a
o
H
7
te
A)
aR
by
bed
S
®
in
°
Sl
o
q
5
a
a
»
“q
o

Bebo Orozco, who infiltrated into Cuba on 2} Dec 1964,
nd three other 4 hiding in the
zt

@ Woman na @ lived at(ko. 72 oF
Greer between —— Havana.
CzCo's Capture, if he has been captured, presents an

 

 

decide ana Communicate with Miami whether ANLASH-1 and
AMTRUNK-10 believe it necessary to sxtiht ate ANTRUNK-10,
AMLASH-1 was briefed to send a letter AFU-9 to :
indicate whether Orozco has been rested or whether he tg
Still in hiding, If the letter ¢ INAFU~9 mentions a
g00d and Pleasant return trip, this will mean that Orozco
ie not under the contro} of the security service, If the
letter talka abouth long, tiring trip, this will indicate
SILASH.

to send » report on the above and any compl ieations which
have developed or may Gevelop from Orozco's fofiltration,

changed to “Gerardo, "

 
 

to

‘specifically, how carefully do they check the placeneat

the Garis’ Statioa]- ANLASH+1. sleo agreed to attempt to find
‘out-and pass to the(Paris Statiom through (SNAFU-9 the

=-3-

prosident and that his man, Lago Mora, would be one of
the vice-presidents, | (A cable’ ond this subject was sent
to Headquarters from (Paris,) : 6

. (5 ]

€. AMLASE-1 was requested to check with oe wuod) : ;
regarding the precautions being taken to pre 4 tage :
of the lodnotives being shipped from France to Cuba; i

 

of the seals, are they special seals or regular lead
seals, are there going to be any additional checks once :
the locomotives reach Cuba, will they drain the of] and i
lubricants from the factory to the port, and do they run .
the locomotives under their own power or are. they towed, :
AMLASH-1 agracdl to attempt to develop answers to the above j
requirements and pars. the information to his contact in i
t

  

names of theCuban techs, training at La Rochelle,

h. fn @ general discussion regarding the persons with
whom AMLASH-1 had heen in contact either personally or
through letters, AMLASH-1 mentioned Alfredo Portela.
AMLASH-1 stated he hdd received a letter from Portela and
had in turn written to Portela. He considers Portela a

“friend which was the only reason for writing to him, . -

i. 88-1 was debriefed on Cuban Intelligence
Service personnel. A cable on this subject was sent from

@ariato Headquarters,

i i

4. <A cable was sent from @aris to Headquarters
suggesting wAVE send a S/¥ letter to AMTRUNK-16 stating:
“Este tranquilo. Carlos regresa pronto.”

k. AMLASH-1 was asked for inforration on ‘the fole
lowing persons:

(Cl) Samuel Gonzalez Rodriguez-Planes. AMLASH=1
reporte he is a member of the Ameijeiras group and
ig a good and brave man.

(2) Antonio Lusson y Batlle, Chief of Operations
of the General Staff of the Occidental Army,
AMLASH~1 reports Lugsson ts an independent and rare
type individual who keeps to himself and doesn't
involve himself in political matters, AMLASH-1 hac
heard nothing bad about Lusson.
14-00000

-4d-

(3) Cadte. Raul Diaz Arguéelles, Chief of
Artillery of the Occidental ‘ray.

(4) Blpidio Baex Bigo. According to AMLASH-1,— :

Baez is a trusted Fidelman.

(5) Luis Menuel Cantillo Totrac. Assigned to
the Cuban Embassy in Madrid and one of the security

people. He vas forsierly assigned to Brazil, is young

and has for several years been with Pinero and the
Cuban 138.

(6) Enrique Oltuski Osacki, Oltuski te a cloge

friend of Faustino Perez aud his stock eith the regine

rises or fallg as does that of Faustino.

(1) Sergio Tollon. Code clerk in the Eabassy in

Paris, Tollon ie staying in Paris at the request of
Ambassador Carrillo,

1. Gastro enteritis, water pollution and unsanitary
conditions. AMLASH-1 states there are no real problems,
although the scarcity and lack of a balanced dtet do
cause some problems. The purification of water hag been

a problem which probably has been the cause of some of the

mickness in the country.

m, AMLASH-1 did not believe that Aragones had invited

4m to fly back to Havana with him in order to get hin
ack because of any serious security matter. AMLASH-1

did state that Aragones was concerned that AMLASH-1 may not

return to Cuba. Since Aragones cleared AMLASH-) for his

trip abroad,
not defect and returns to Cuba, AMLASH-1 feels Aragones

does not want any problems with Fidel in case AMLASH-1
decides to stay out. °

n, AMLASH-1 was unable to provide any information on

the political developments in Cuba in mid-November and

December since he had been out of the country aknece early

Novenber, AMLASH-1 was asked to check on the probleus

between the opposing factions in the Cubao leadership and

explained the issues, the background and personatities
involved, .

he is in a way responsible that AMLASH-1 does

o. Soviet advise or influence in political and economic

matters creates resentment among the middle and higher level
Cuban offtetats. Pasically, the Soviets are not respected,
