14-0000

oo i. What. are Station sup rt cai abilities re FRD?

   

telerhone tape/ nike installation
; ops data for FRD consumption.
» Protection (uni letera gon equads) of, overt FKD menbers vs
CASTRO agent! executive actions.
ent surveillants: te chock a. ceccurtty, and ‘leyalty

    

 

of. overt/covert FRD nembers.
a. . Selection of secure safe sites for housing of FRD (overt & covert
members) and sslecticn of _gattatactory ‘office facility for overt
‘FRD members. .
-.@. Based on Station officers! knowledge of Mexico City and environs,
_ selection of covert neating sites, =
2, What are Mexican Governnent capatilities in’ terms of protectien of:
» avert FRU nenbers against CASTRO agent executive action operations?
3. What would be the channel of conruntestions between the Station
ae - and the BENDER Group representatives?
Can the ‘Station cormunication facilities {pouch ‘and cable) be used for
secure FED conmnteat ions between the menber's in Mexico and those” ‘in

othe U.S. and elsevere? -

 

 

 

Ny ¢ pb. badder few, hak Foy aa os

U

 
‘oa-t0t7 40023

 

: s¥preciateds

* SECRET gut 969”

NOMORANDUH PORE WI/A/PA. |

- Attention: Miss Tharpe

SUBJECT: Unresolved IMGT
_ Problens re Maxicoe

aL dmen na Grupo" arrives in Hedeo its first. problea Will be to”
set up, && soon. as Possible, a daily newspaper and a press relations offices

‘Be To succesd the Grupo will need the aseistance of Station Mexico in -

‘Leproving the public and political clinata in which ant1—CA3TRO people can
- work effectively. .

30 A tremendous publicity drive should be made on the arrival of "SL
Grupo" in Mexico in order to create the proper image of the FRO in Yaxico

and throughout. Jatin Americas

vb It is hoped ‘that Mrs Hunt and ‘the ‘Station. officers will ba able to |
support and guide AMULLA, who will be producing "El vundo in Eile, which
whl ostensibly be indeveaxcent. but actually wlll be a pro-FRD newspapers
ANULLA wilh aleo be making satirical, humorous radio tapes for broadcasting
over Radio. Swan. .Any help that can be given to: this endeavor will be greatly.

DAVID A. PILLIPS
C/li/kf Prop

Distribution: ; a
Origs & i ~ Addresses . 2 -
Mies. Tharpe ° . . og
ae - iggnpe: ded ON ved

 

 
