13-00000

 

 

 

    

— a . a | (Clan 26 ¥OF
| . ; s

éropped in an eftort to disguise the place. where the
‘photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an
issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged °
_in the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been
shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the
picture to appear in the report with the background
completely blocked out and with the agreement that no
mention would be made about where it had been taken. : .
As far as can be determined, the Agency has never :

admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,

even though there has been a great deal of speculation

to that effect by several authors and journalists. As

a matter of fact, one of the lawyers. who worked with the
Gre, later leaked information(to an a

  
 
   
 

the photo, but erroneously said it had been taken i
‘(front of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico by CI
gency the ac ocation, only
saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.S. All
mention of the photo has therefore been marked to be
withheld, because of sensitive sources and methods
involved. .

 
    

c. Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. ALVARADO, a . °
Nicaraguan citizen, Walked in to the’ u.S. Embassy in
Mexico, claiming to have knowledge re Kenn 's assasination,
Intelligence Service (NIS), however his story re the
ssassination was separate from his work for uF NIS) After

ng a polygrap was

determined that ALVARADO had been fabricating a story claiming
he had seen OSWALD receive money from a Cuban official at
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. The ALVARADO story appears
in the Warren Report but it does not reveal hi
order to continue to protec VARADO and the Nicaraguan
government from possible embarrassment all mention of
ALVARADO has been marked for non-release. .

      

In

       
     
  
 
  

   
 
    
  
  

 

A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file
ave been forwarded to your office for review by other LAD
branches and possibly other Divisions. The documents dre marked
according to which volume they belong in the 201 file (there
are 57 volumes plus many bulky atachments.)

3. During the review, it was necessary several times to
refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain
exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the
case, It is doubtful that the other branches will find this
necessary, but in case they do, the Warren Report is held

in the Library.
. .
. a, ack: ya thews oS
7” 7LA/Mexicg

Ce Cate anevase)

“

    

 
 

 

 

 

       

    

1194-985 - | 24 Noveraber 1963 , wo eT

Disposition - This document was numbered and included in this list
in error. The document originated with the Department of Navy, to ) which
it has been referred for direct response.

 

 

 
 

Soe Oe C _. Gne- — 3646
ae 7 “31 July us
| a “sg
. ; a . ‘n &
) ‘i Qo 3
MEMORANDUM FOR: (LA/EICO . | > §
r. William Sturbitts) a2
weet s ¢*
SUBJECT : SRreview of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File g 2¢
for Freedom of Information Request: 3 gS.
—
REFERENCE : Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975 z
. . <—
¥
ae . BS 1.0
1. A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248) @ ws
has been completed by(the Mexican Branch) in connection with a.
reference Freedom of Information request. Most of the >
information contained on the file that

 
 
  

pertains to Mexico
cds, such as photo
J teltap and mail intercept:
operations 24 Aithough he mail intercept and photo
surveillance activities have been dicontinued, the fagt
that they were in operation in Mexico continues to bp
considered sensitive. The [bilateral teitap is #i11
active], and, therefore, is sensitive.}
aad

 
   
 
 
  

      
 
      
     

|] an PROGR.

          
  
   
  
  
  
 
 

 
 

cn irae aa Ta
2. The Mexican information reviewed covered th

ee
areas: jess
Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Mexican female 8 ()

2 i
employe y the Cuban Embassy in Mexico who provided ae — (ami
assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cub pele
visa. Information regarding DURAN appears in the Warren
Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency.

The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate.
DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the
GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was
turned over to the Commission by the GON via State Department.
Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originally
came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention via .the
ilateral}teltap, all mention of Agency knowledge or

articipation in DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation
has been marked for non-release,.

   

     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Photo of unidentified

. man (taken in front 2D
Ge: Soviet Enbassy gin Mexico. THIS photo was taken

 

 

+) spine. tim

tation Wexico photo Surveillance of the Soviet Embass)
during the month of October 1963. When news cf the
arrest of OSWALD as Kennedy's assassin became known,

he Station immediately forwarded copies of the photo

to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo
was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall.

It was later determined thot. the photo was not of OSWALD
-:.and in fact -had been taken after he Jind: départed. Meéxics

(OSWALD was in Mexico from 36 September . thru. 8 October joes. yd

Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown
to OSWALD's wife and motifier, with the background partially

Goat asp 2918),

 

Se
QW.
=
aie)
C2
[aa
con
fie]
bd
4 os.

 

-

 

      

 
 

 

 

  

1186-999-A a1 July 1975 2

‘Disposition - This document was denied. The document { is a-review of
information in. the Oswald-201-file which still warrants continued protection
under the classification system. The document identifies and explains the
nature of the hazard that would be involved for a number of foreign intelligence
sources and operational methods if this document or other documents containing

information on the same activities were to be released. The information is

properly classified and denied. This particular document also contains
information identifying an Agency staff employee and Agency internal filing

instructions. The document was therefore denied under the. authority of

exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2), and (b) (3).

 
13-00000

pee

 

 aFeED

 
 
  
  
  
    
 

rd reports tho Gubsn
fiz ain tho Cirst pls

      
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   

ep

onda ican Cecply upset over
used the verd "1.
laren | no more of Uswald c

 
   
  

 

 

theless Lite to protect
73 dLecusetd bis a

NOVI
& to h

  

 

Ng ahena econ

 

 

roidenkaliy, la claims to
ne “aL Rex and, & to a

    

 

ry fry roomed £1 om

 

 

 

 

and in tha cecond place becsune

 

‘Eearet toying to be cor chow, :
Bohin to thea

 

8 Losnee ¢ a

5
sah

3 Searlul of trowolo with bin former pro-Castro student
vas 42 they got the irpression ho ©
they aca not altegether "former",
huh ¥vicit him here from tims to +

4

have

  
  
  

seaten’5 Ty om r
of tho vnpleas sant consequenses vinich
vaing it}, Ho asco
~ 7 tho Tiga A

anid ¢

 

 

7
\

con

 

   

 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
  

rite umvisestand police agcneles:
‘ lice"), Ho

  

  
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
   
    
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
 
  

 

A down from tho outset,
Ano "provieus" on hin
ho was a U.S. agent, -

zted by the Cubona. Ly
erred not literally, ‘The |
| days 7

et namo, I should
x “po sciblo,. Ho cleins
Osemild with anyone except
does. soon genuinely
icly to this mattor.

Stet on anyono, I gather
ing ho. says como of then

ted Guba, to ba woll acquainted
2, with Castro, Ho claims farthor
taleto’ Proonza, who I understood
ary in Mosckeo City and may now

vc’ evening particularly intrigned.
iy vith justification, esnecia aay,
ight dorive from anz
ho was the student who perconally*
statue on the UAM campus with
oemehen 8 5 was mitilated somo

 
 

 

 

   

Wy

 
 

aA ht

in J, Reyle
an Coneuk

      

 

 
 

‘fearful of losing his job if he is tied publicly to this matter.

 

  

 

~aaTy yéed Foe Eas1it ee

foe +
ae vee LAD ee Aes eval

~2~

 
  
   
    
    
   
    
 
   
   
   
  

mention of Texas). He also pave theia to understand police agencies .

‘in the United States had harrassed him ("lo Hostilizagan"). He

showed an interest in painting and paintings.

My friend reports the Cuban Embassy turned Oswald down from the outset,
apparently in the first place because they had no "previous" on hin
and in the second place because they suspected he was a U.S. agent.

Oswald was deeply upset over being rejected by the, Cubans. My

informant used the word "lloraba", but I inferred not literally. The ©.
group saw no more of Oswald after the second day. mh,

I am not trying to be coy about my "informant's" name. TI should
‘nevertheless like to protect him to the extent possible. He claims ,,,,/
not to have discussed his acquaintance with Oswald with anyone except.
me. J tako this with a grain of salt, but he does seem genuinely

 

He also seems fearful of trouble with his former pro-Castro student
friends if they get the impression he "ratted" on anyone. { gather

1
i
. they are not altogether "former",.considering he says some of then

‘still visit him here from time to time.

_Incidentally, he claims to have visited Cuba, to be well. acquainted

with Raul Roa and, to a lesser degree, with Castro. He claims further
to have been friendly with one Maria Teresa Proenza, who I understood
hin to say defected from the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and may now
be in Miami.

One item he “revealed" during our first evening particularly intrigued :
me. (He seemed subsequently, and probably with justification, especially:
fearful of the unpleasant consequences which might derive from any a
publicity regarding it). He asserted he was the student who personally:
climbed XXXXXXXXXXKXX the Miguel Aleman statue on the VAM campus with ‘}
the dynamite~-ZI believe he said dynamite-~when it was mutilated some . Jd
years ago. °

I am aware my friend my have fabricated everything he told Ie. Hy ,
personal evaluation is that he has been truthful. :

 

Sincerely,.

 

 

Benjamin J. Ruyle.
American Consul | °

    

 
a ee “PROCESSING LOCESSING AGHON :
i . : ED) , ieee ee
Cert a ca is
i: ae, a a, NOEXING REQUIRED
I WeO. Se ALIFIED DESK
| FrRow : ° ee
i Chief f Western Hemisphere Division va

  
      

 

   

 

    
 
 

 

. ATION REQUIRED - REFERENGIY Cc ERO BENT IMNAW: is maces A ¥ : WATE :
fon arspico, MEXICO, TO DEPAREMENT..S 7 ay
ESC RIBIG AL ECATIONS “GE UN =O
QrremP TS ol Hag QSL AGI. BCC a FeO
; PER St ia 438) fi
eT Or ee WN, Sosa ae smpicd, My. Benjamin J. Ruyle,

has sent to the Department of State, Washington, D. C., a letter
of 11 May 1967, a copy of which is herewith attached. It was
1 Sent in response to a request by his desk officer in compliance

|

i

i

|

{ 4 .

i svar eee FoR, COB : ~
i his report constitutes the first piece of substantive ;
4 ‘| J f(aatormation about Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in Mexico City to.
fo.

|

|

|

|

|

|

 

 

appear since the assassination of President Kennedy. We under=.
stand the reluctance of the unidentified source tc become i
involved, but. the fact remains that this information cannot con~
‘tinue to be withheld or concealed. ; . a ;

 
   
   
  
   
   

It is requested that you confer with Mr. ‘Ruyle to deter-
ine the identity of the source and the best way of approaching
him. His desire to stay out of trouble seems likelier to be -
gratified through cooperation with U. 8. authorities than it
would be if we were forced to turn the matter over to the Mexican
authorities,

 

7 It is also requested that you determine whether the :
ttached information has been made available to LNERGO and, if .
it has not, to request that this step be taken... ; oe

  
   

 

The information needed is: the ‘identity ‘of the source, an” :
approximate date for the two days spent with Oswald, the identities ..
fof all others in contact with Oswald at. ‘that tame, and a | detailed ,

1 account of what happened. : voc fy an

 

 

oor ~ .-| Although the Werren Commission obtained | no facts pointing.
‘oO y homésexua lity on Oswald's part, this allegation has been made :
y elenents of the press covering’ District Attorney dim Garrison's ..y

o hy - Document Number 1086-967 a Celaks7 2: 45
| Ht FO Review on SEP 876 gs COPY | aS 7

!
i
1
. | { CROSS REFERENCE TO OISPATCH “SYMBOL. AND NUMBER
i
1
H
i
|
i
i
!
t

      

    

GRSEP 4
Excluded trom sotamale
fas rrorading intl

    
      
  

 
 

 
   
  

HQS ELE NUMBER .
ae 289248
ORIGINATING

=
%. te ~ - ot

- COORDINATING # ~

~ cnn SYMBOL OFFICER'S NAME :

a (oa I oa
Sone -<

 

 

 

 
           

i 53 usa prsvious eorrion.

“mea. tee : aa

  
 
 
 

04043360044 a

 

 

 

1986-967... * i Sune 1967 Be

erry ee

Disposition - This document was denied. ‘The document transmitted a
*. raemoranduir, written by a State Department official concerning a‘contach re had.
+ + with an individual alleging having become acquainied with Lee Harvey Oswald :
i, in Mexico City. The State Department officex's memorandum is an attachment” a
i: to this document. The attachment has been referred to State Depastinent : a
i * which will deal with it directly. The Agency dispatch transmitting a copy of *-.
® this memorandum will not be released since it discusses the contents of the ~-
attachment in such a way as to reveal completely the contents. The Agency
document also contains information confirming the existence of an Agency
station In a specific city abroad, information identifying Agency components
Agency staff employees, Agency cryptonyms aad Agency: internal filing * *
instructions : The document is therefore denied under the authority of,

   

   
    
   
       

  

      

1086 - 967

AMENDED COMMENT

This document has been referred to the Department of State which has not
yet responded as of 30 January 1978.

’

 
 

 

— et LASSIFICATION OISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
“ CONTINUATION OF .
; . DISPATCH. SECRET HMMW-1S, 557

ft hye

   
 
 
  

investigation in New Orleans. it is therefore necessary to bear
this possibility in mind when interviewing the source and others
who spent time with Oswald in Mexice City. It is our hope that
the facts obtained through these interviews will help to. confirm
that several of Garrison's allegations about involvement of anti-
Castro Cubans, WOFACT, etc., are false.

8, We are coordinating closely in this matter with (irowuse)

a (moons ¥, u0%0)

|. ATPACHMENT : ,
: etter from American Consul in Tampice)
. DISTRIBUTION;

Orig & 1 sa Mexico City wrest

 

 

aries (2 | (-Q6 G LF g
=== [fam fos

 

 

  
 

   
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
   
  
 
  

' [had originally debated with myself whether to send anything at all,

' - over the ground in somewhat more detail, as set forth below, but he

fem (oll fm WIS 7S)

 
    

     
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
    
    
 
 

we SPRATT AL ew
oe oo MEXICAN Ar EMS
( Ce
at a CONSULATE .
b: OF THE MAY 26 1967 i
4. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA | om... ERG 2
De i se
oe a

 

Tampico, Mexico AFS.

Official~Informal , a hee!
CONFIDENTIAL

 

Wesley D. Boles, Esquire ts
Chief, Mexican Political Affairs, Office of Mexican Agtairs on
‘Dopartmont of State, Washington, D. G. 20520 oS

‘Dear Wos: an

The missing Lee Harvey Oswald airgram reforred to in your letter of ,
April 14 is Tampico's A-43, which I drafted on March 16. It ought
to have reached you before April 14. \

considering my "informant" did not seem to offer anything new, How:

ever, in view of the admittedly "electrifying qualitys of the subject,
I finally decided to record the matter,

Because of your letter, I invited my friend to lunch today. We went”: ~

did not claim he was making world-shaking revelations, and'I do not a
believe he was. |

He said he and a group of fellow students met Oswald one afternoon
(he does not recall the date) when they came out of the Cineclub, :

ich I understood to be at the Eacuela de Filosofia (I am not familiar
with the University of Mecico). Ie described Os Oswald as trarott and

TUEEERUNA "introvertido", a person who obviously had. complexes and
problems,

Oswald was witk the group during the remainder of the afternoon and
evening and all the following day, They paid for his meals during this
time. (It was of interest to me my informant. gaid that, in addition to
recornizing Oswald's photograph following the assassination of Prosident
Kennady, hae easily recalled Oswald's name because both "Harvey" and
"Oswald" connoted rabbit to him, something I had not thought of.)

Oswald ovidently had gone to the university to look for pro-Castro students -
who mighb help him persuade the Cuban Embassy to grant hima visq. He
spoke little Spanish, but indicated he was from California, as well as
that ho had been a member of a pro-Ge gtre group ain New Orleans (no

  

CS COPi

wrens meee:

     

 

 

   
