 

 

 

Steere

et anita tevin

 

  

   
  

 

RET
. BISSEN

   
   

govt. dated 29 June 1955,
S$ culled to the ;
tilitar (Military
Ss Alfredo

 

ueually reliable soure,
stated thar’ in Septeuber i333,
tention of the Service ce in

en¢e Service = Siny
(aad (‘Ragael “ETRAS

   
 
 

    

   
 

  
 
 
    
 
 
   

C jucato de “Teabajadores
3 tral Stewart y sus Colonias (Union of
Sugar Workers of Central St stewart), he was arrested ona
: trike at the Central. Oa
arrest hé was awarded a prize by’ the. PSP
for having Gistinguished hirself in the work doae. On nos . 7y
l October 1955, a SIM agent interviewed Alfredo MIRABAL a
and he (Alfrédo) adhitted ‘to Ying been affiliated with . PS
the PSP but. ‘dgnied being a Connunist. He said that he
‘beionged to the: PSP merelyas a Laborer; believing that -
workers. ‘shou elong. to ‘that Party. The investigation, °°) +

also dis¢ei at. Alfredo. ‘WERABAL was the "Delegate on
Official and Manageme: Organizdtions" (sic) of the +. = .”
‘Sindicato de’ “Mrabajad: res de.la Fabrica de Pinturas . -
Sherwin Williams. (Union of Sgervin Williams Workers).
Ee was described ‘ag white, divorced, a native of Habana, . .
the son of Rogelio and Sofia, and a "resident of Calle E, ..
Number 302, Reparto Satista.- ; “ . oy

 

 

  
  

 

  

   
   

 

 

ice of this Agency, ina “yeport Gated 28 May 1962,
stated that an’untested source said that one (fnu) MIRABAL
was the chief of G-2 in.Caibarien. ke was born in 1932, ~ ‘

ds tive feet five inches tall, and weighs 160 pounds.

In September 1963, it was regorted that Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz,

born in 1923, arrived in Mexico as the Cuban Consul on

2 September i963. Reportedly, he did not know his job as . ‘
Consul and was held in contezgt by his staff for his
incompetence.. . ”

In October 1963, it was reported.that the.aunt of Alfredo.

pail Diaz stated that Alfredo NIRABAL had been appointed
che Cuban Consulate in Mexico. Ke was reportedly an

: old-line Conmunist under BATISTA “and he was probably

trained in Moscow.

 

4 {Gavan businessman in Mexico City with good contacts in the

Cuban Embassy jand who has reported reliable information for

about two years stated in a regort dated” 17 February 1964,

that on 23 January 1964 Alfredo M. MIRABAL'Diaz, Consular

Attache of the Cuban Enibassy in Mexico City, sent the following

cable to the Administration Section gf the Cuban Ministry

of Foreign Relations:
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 

 

 
 

404-10185-10121

 

   

 

  

 
 
   
  
 

 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Po

  

‘This material contains iaformatioa atfecting te Naticnal Deltase “of the wattes  Grages witnts the a aging of the Eeptontsa
14, UBC. Goce. 783 and TH the Umosmlaica oF revelation of which in ady mennir to an ubeuthorised person $

SECRET. °
| _NO- FOREIGN, DISSEM.

 
     
  
  
  
 
  
 

 

couNtay Cuba cas * pgport No: €5C1~316/006
-suaect “Al iredo MIRABAL Diag . dugast’ 1

\
\

Dats OF 1964 : a

rAgt a tashincton, be.
DATE A LEA

   

sous ‘A former Cuban IS officer who served with the cuban
Intelligence Service: until April 1964, -
‘Headquarters Cce.zents - :

i : ot - my
H The following report is one of a series containing
fo . érsonalixy information provided ‘by the source and
:

 
 

includes supplemental information from the records
of this Agency. —

} It is requested that the addressees take no action on any
of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports 4g
without first checking with this Agency.

Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz, pseudonym "Federico," is the
enief Cuban Intelligence officer in Mexico City as of . .
Janaary 1964, Although Manuel. VEGA is. replacing STRABAL
as chieZ, HIRABAL possibly will continue in Mexico. 1,2,3, 4, 3, 8, 7, 8

 
 

 

VMeadauarters Comments

1, a Septenber 1947, a usualiy reliable source reported .
hat Alfredo LIRABAL, director of the Sugar Workers‘ , : :
Uaton of Central Stewart and Colonies and delegate of 2
Central to official and management orgenizations, was “4
active in the Partido Socialista Popular (Cuban Communist i
Party - PSP) in the Province of Camnaguey.

oa 2. %In the 12 April 1953, issue of the publication Ko: ty
. . an interview with Alfredo MIRABAL Diaz, financia an
secretary of the Sherwin Williams Workxers' Union, was
printed with reference to the workxers' demands. t

SECRET
NO FOGREIGN DISSEM

ee te)
et Ob i Ge Ok

 

   
  

2ERRK Teen FBI 2

  

NAVY
CINCSO # IenS

 

 

  
 

REP CINCLANT

(Note: Field di:tribytion indicated by “i ".)

 

  

nae ake
pretense MH/SA 7 QL), WEL (2

:
1 NO. # ONY FAZIO

eras A.

 
 

rihienene tienen det taminentienan ie aaa CE foe

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

 

  

vat the "Ceida del Agua Instatate® for: :

   
  
  
 

SECRET <= -
NO FOREIGN DISSEM.. .

 

=e

      

   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  

“It is urgently necessary, that ‘you: Send: ‘this ‘Consu ate's-
allotment for the months of - Dece ber ang January.

qolay ve pouéhing a proqeetea é timate, for this year
urge your rapid attention." Sat te

dated 12 June 1964, that Alf edo MIRABA! Diaz, in’ charge. :6f ; he.
Cuban Consulate in "Mexico City, was born about 1929, “has deel
married twice, and. has'a-Very poor educa rion... ‘:
has been a Communist ‘arid everyone . in Wi: 4

where both re and his brothers. wor!

 

 

 

 

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
