: ; : Oe SECRET

SUBJECT: Appeal of Unfavorable Determination by the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (AIUO) ~

-C/IMS/ESG/F.Wickham/tdn/x44448/2Feb96

Distribution:
Original '- Addressee
- DDO/Reg
- AC/DDO.
- DCI/CSI/HRG

- C/IMS
- IMS/IRO
- ESG

NPR Ree ee
It
in]
a
ve)
N
te
Q
inal

3

SECRET
yor ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk cd

 

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE: 03/18/96 06:24:14 PM
SUBJECT: JFK Meeting today

After speaking with you tonight about the results of the meeting today, Jeremy Gunn called me and relayed his concerns about the
Board's understandings (or misunderstandings) af CIA's position. bind I discussed what happened atthe JFK meeting and
the following is our impression of what resulted. Basically [did not commit himself on any specifics on these issues, but expressed
his willingness to cooperate with the Board:

 

1. ["}station [Pas mare willing to negotiate this one, but does not agree to its release. CIA wants to present more
information.{___ [was not under the impression that this station was to be discussed today so he did not come prepared to present new
information on it. CIA should do this for the Board at the next possible opportunity. .

2. Open Period for Stations ww that the staffs of the Board and HRG should work out the exact time periad. He had
no problem with the} Sua and opening it up th af pthe Oswald file. He did not make any firm commitment on the dates to
the Board, saying that the staffs should come to an agreement on this.

3. Substitutions for hats Athouh| uggested (COTTTT Istation"® as a substitution, he clearly prefered

something less revealing like ‘uropean hou , ete.)". Using the former term has far less plausible deniability. The latter
option basically gives up what we want to protect.

 

 

- Once HRG hears a to what his understandings are, then someone needs to speak with Jeremy Gunn ASAP on Tuesday
morning before the Board leaves. Jeremy said that unless we correct the Beard on its mistaken i impression al about the above, they will
leave assuming we have come to-an agreement and will refuse to revisit this at a latter date. :

Let me know if you need me to help out in any way on this. FYI, | will be in meetings at 1OAM and 2pm (Win Scott settlement
discussions!!!}-temorrow.

Ce: John F. Pereira
Eleanor Neiman @ DO

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET

SUBJECT: Appeal of Unfavorable Determination by the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (AIUO)

We have a critically short deadline in which to ess—
issues concerning the release of and/ The)

 

 

 

stations, the identity of the asset, and

 

 

The release of the identities of the remaining stations must be
resolved over the next two weeks. We request your comments and
expert opinions regarding the impact such releases would have on
the foreign relations of the United States, and hope to cite
State Department's support as we finalize our appeal. (S)

 

¢
4

4

coed oF
Acting Deputy Director for Operations

CIR-316/ 00293-96,

2

SECRET
SECRET
* mos Central Intelligence Agency

 

Washington, D.C. 20505 FEB 0 2 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Intelligence Coordination,
Intelligence and Research, Department of State

SUBJECT: Appeal of Unfavorable Determination by the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (AIUO)

The JFK Assassination Records Review Board (Board) recently

 

released documents ane? a the existence of CIA stations in

 

 

 

| an Roa operation
withL| and the identity of a unilateral

penetration. It is the CIA's assessment
that such releases could seriously: damage intelligence operations
as well as adversely affect the foreign relations of the United
States. CIA is presently preparing an appeal of these rulings by
the Board and requests the support of the Department of State
should these appeals be brought before the President. (S)

Additionally, the Board has just released the existence of
stations in| and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and in March-April, it will be reviewing a document
at reveals the location of every CIA station in 1965. It-is
anticipated that CIA will be preparing to appeal those releases
and requests State Department's assessment as to the damage to
foreign relations should the location of CIA stations be publicly
acknowledged. (S)

It remains essential that the U.S. Government stand by |
assurances to persons and foreign governments that information
they provide and activities they undertake based upon expected
confidentiality remain protected for as long as necessary. These
releases made by the Board seriously undermine the ability of CIA
to uphold secrecy obligations it took on in the past and to make
those assurances in the future. (C)

CL BY 2103140}
REASON 1.5(c)
DECL X1; X5
DRV LOC 3-82
DRV LIS 3-82

SECRET
SECRET

references in summaries to the founding of the station and,
most important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City.

Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of
stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key
issue for the Agency and a senior Directorate/Agency

decision. She indicat would oppose expanding
the Mexico City windo' ; :

As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had
already agreed to the release of those documents.

Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presentation would be a
good opportunity to address the Private Line and other Tel
Taps issue rather than requesting a separate meeting.

After the meeting Marwell elaborated on the presentation.
He said to try a avoid going over old ground (US-Mexico
relationship; when possible provide specific/hard evidence
(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories did not go
over well and neither did Bill McNair. He emphasized the
importance of using the language of the law.

SECRET
13-00000

mot SECRET Le

September 12, 1995
WORKING PAPER

Notes from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995

Issue: Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting

It was agreed that “STATIONS” would be the focus of the
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour.

Marwell recommended providing evidence of bilateral
agreements as well as identifying current: harm. Said that
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations,
particularly those in Europe.

Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico
City station window. There are documents from the 50s,
references in summaries to the founding of the station and,
most. important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City.

Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of
stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key
issue for the Agency and a senior Directorate/Agency.

decision. She indicat would oppose expanding
the Mexico City window

As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had
already agreed to the release of those documents.

Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presentation would be a
good opportunity to address the Private @° and other Tel
Taps issue rather than requesting a sepdrate meeting.

After the meeting Marwell elaborated on the’ presentation.

He said to try to avoid going over old ground (US-Mexico
relationship); when possible provide specific/hard evidence
(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories do not go
over well. He emphasized the importance of using the
language of the law especially when citing harm. He
specifically mentioned Sec. 6. (B){copy attached} which sets
a standard of “interfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities”.

[Note: In a previous meeting with Gunn, he stressed similar
themes including avoiding what he called “chicken little”
arguments. He also raised the question on sensitivity of
acknowledging we had a station in Moscow during the 60s/
“Tt would have been logical to have one during the Cold
War.” ] -

SEGRET

 
13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to Mexico
City Station and the JFK Assassination Records

B. Cryptonyms, such as those in the LI series
the contex
‘(such ‘as LITENSOR and

 

 

LITEMPO) .

Cc. We need to continue the protection of the cryptonym
LIENVOY.

This cryptonym is used extensively throughout the
collect to describe thet era oem
different perspectives. ndividual Sccurrences may
not seem to reveal anything significant but, when
looking at the cryptonym in context over the entire

collection it reveals\ the pwhich we
are trying to protect:

 

4. Regarding the revelation of names of employees who
retired under cover, we request the Board to table its final
determination until the individuals have been contacted and
informed that their name is being considered for release. This
will allow the individual to consider the impact it will have and
convey relevant information. The Directorate database is not set
up to track individuals who were involved in specific operations.
We need the assistance of the employees to know their operational
involvement’s. Office of Central Cover has prepared and is
coordinating a letter to be sent to the employees which will both
inform them and solicit their assistance/comments.

 

 

 

2

SECRET
 

[iio tooao] SECRET
“4 Y ran

“le

ESG 95-02
14 July 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM: Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to
Mexico City Station and the JFK Assassination
Records

1. At its monthly meeting on 17 July the ARRB will be
addressing the issue of the Mexico City Station and its operation
in light of any deletions made by the Agency to protect sources
and methods. The issues of greatest concern are those

nding . teltap operations run by the Agency
| official acknowledgment of which could have an
foreign relations. (We therefore, wish t¢

this information.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Embassies )

Weare willing to réleasé docuiliénits which indicate the
“existencé of Mexico City Station during times outside the window
which we have acknowledged when they contribute significantly to
the historical record. These steps will be useful to the
historic record and reveal the extent of coverage employed
against these targets. We would want to continue protection of
the information: which identifies coverage of other countries and
individuals other than Lee Harvey Oswald.

 

3. We also agree to release of the following:

A. Pseudonyms of employees, aliases of employees,
and file numbers.

CL BY 624343 /
DECL OADR
DRV COV 2-87

SECRET
; e's response - because the information deals with fo
. she will have to take their proposal to a hi
evel.

SECRET

September 11, 1995
WORKING PAPER

Notes from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995

ARRB Attendees: Marwell, Gunn, Mary + one
CIA Attendees : Barry, Ellie

Issue: Inconsistency between Mexico City Chrono item
#132 and ARRB document #31

Gunn proposed that the Agency release the information in
document 31 that was released by mistake in the Mexico City
Chrono. Otherwise, the staff would have to take the
document back to the ARRB for reconsideration which they
felt would undercut the credibility of the CIA and the
staff. The Board will not uphold a postponement ina
specific document if that information is released by mistake
in another copy of the same document.

 

[response needed by 16 September]

They also requested a “new” highlighted version of the
Mexico City Chrono which reflects all information released
to NARA in the multiple copies of the Chrono and in the
documents referenced in the Chrono.

Issue: The three documents of concern.

 

 

 

 

Marwell said that we could make an addition pitch to the
Board to reconsider, but he did not think it would have any
effect on their decision.

PROENZA - Ellie explained that out goal here was to protect
the “asset” not the method and that the deletions could be
reduced to those words that could result.in the
identification of the agent.

Marwell said that the Board may reconsider based on the need
to protect a source.

Mary ask who was the asset? Was it LIRING?

Ellie said she did not know (it could have been some “AM”
source.

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

Mary ask for more information on LIRING.

“PRIVATE LINE TAP” - According the Marwell, the Board
considered the issue of the “private lines” but since the
paragraph dealt with Oswald, voted to release. Mary said is
was hard to defend the individual released since she did not
have any information on the person.

We pointed out that the this release impacted on other
documents which dealt with private line taps plus the Board
had not limited its release to the paragraph that mentioned
Oswald but released the name in other calls which had
nothing to do with Oswald.

Marwell said the Board may re-look at the document as part
of looking at similar documents.

The issue of the taps on other Bloc embassies came up. Mary
said the Board was inclined to release given the end of the
Cold War.

(Note: we will locate as many of the “private line tap”
documents we can for special review]

Issue: Removing the Proenza and Private line tap
documents form the formal notification list

Marwell clearly prefers not to do it at this time (said they
would discuss). Has no problem with asking the Board to
reconsider or giving us the opportunity to presence
additional evidence since their next meeting was within the
30 days set by the law, but felt that the Board was not
inclined to keep tabling documents that: they had reached a
decision on.

Marwell asked if the Agency plans:: ‘to “appeal”; he would like
a heads-up.

Later, in private, Marwell said that he wanted to build into
the process a loop that would handle these types of
situations. .

Issue: Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting

It was agreed that “STATIONS” would be the focus of the
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour.

Marwell recommended providing evidence of bilateral
agreements as well as identifying current harm. Said that
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations.
Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico
City station window. There are documents from the 50s,

SECRET
