 

wet €

r,

~

equipment avi fer soutrolline AURAL. frterests tn this phase ef the Frojoct.

s bearine on the

aith rovard lo events ubich «4.tit be considurcd a:
ne 172, at

ecurity ef tte prefeat, the Goatio:n reported that o1 15

aesur ores 2

3

  

   

approxirately 2°), tha conctarie 2 ‘eed tro men grant, rectly acros3
the Street fron the Li and tho seaced to have aa urutual jaterest in the

activity of the LP. after ascut an hour both sot dn an automedtle and con-
tinued to vatch the Swildin: from the car, and from tine to tive appeared
to be taking notes on the ecordn3 and voings of the installations, a3 ‘ell
as maxing notes on the cars uacd by the personnel of the LY. They attempted
to fellow one LE employce when he left for lunch. Later that day, LILIVCY<2
and LIEXYCY-L. approached one of the tro surveillance ren and asked Cor an

cyplanation ef his astion that day. They alse asxed hir to ticntify himself.
Gonzalez, This

fe showcd then a driverts license sith the name Lartano VERA

Ainfornatio: as chested at the Lepartrent of Traffic and found to be the
license of another person, The Traffic uepartrent was ataxcd out bo detor-
mine who, if aayone, wisht shew an interwst in the nases and addresse3 of
the cars used by LP personnel. Cn the 1¢th of June, an aont of the jcerat
Gurvice of the Folies Headquarters showed up and tried to ootain inforvatioa
about the onner of the Llcense ; lates on LIENVOY-2's car. The staxe-out
employee and Sccrot Service man checized the traffic files, but the information
wag not there. In conversation vith the jccret Service man, information vas
gained hich led the Station to suspect that he vas a member of an investi-
gative group headed by a sexican whose afm is te cotain positical infernation
for Nexiean politicians. Since the 15th, ro further atterpts.te place the

Lr under cbservation have bcen noted. Any problecs such as this can be
handled, if necessary, by the [OS and his sovernment contacts since this is

& joint venture.

  

 

 
 

6. During the past project year, there have been 236 disse-inations
based on LIENIOY and LIUIVO¥92 inforration: 200 fro: the forner and 3°
fror, the latter. LIZNVOY reportins covered such topics as:

 
    

tivities of iextcan leftizts such as Lazare CARDINAS, Jorte

a. Ac
sonic La BAxbo Toledano.

L. TanaYa, vi
b. werld Pesde Council.
@. Soviet and Ucech activities in Mexico.
a. Activities.of Jeviet and Szech efficials in ‘exico.

@. Yational Liheration Novement (7IN).

|
Run eee

os

Ly
74-0000

t.

 

Cuban eormercial activities in Nexico, and transshipment of

goods to cuba.

i.

je

ke

Activities in cuba and Cuban activities in Mexico.
Kexican Cormunist Party.
Popular Socialist Farty.
Clandestine Corurunist propazanda and periodicals.

Coverage of activity in wexico of interest to AUBARK in

connection with the trip of Fresident Xennedy.

1.

LIENVOY-2's

eae

Travel of persons of interest.

informants provided reports covering such topics as the following:
Communist Party activities ia Kaxico. :
Anti-government propaganda and activity,

¥ational Liberation ovement.

Anti-U.S. activity in the Mational University,

Developrents in itexico of intorest regarding the trip of ©

President Kennedy.

7. Gd

Division supports the attached renewal request for Project

LIEWVOY subnitted by the Kexico Jity Station, This project is considered
one of the 3tationfs most productive sources of positive, operational and

 

 

 

SI information. Also, it provides a ‘\

 

‘4

yee rete
aes |
 

.

acguist for Qomral :

1, IL is rege
1 s.bruary

  

 

lo Jacuary 19.2

 

 

pt that the Lavov ircdtst vc renezad fer the certod
. Tocvsry UP Sor a lutal of ‘7,2 53 .1°,212 fer

<¥o%5 ar S08 for TEP.

 

 

 

of this project to LEL.tatT, LEAT, and the

 

 

 

 

   

arraige..ont3

 
 

 

 

Tevlerdy vest tho curin: the padi paar in
2 CP a ctoddert wemcuy to .uxtco fron 2 ure
the Juban crinis in Qetover L202. Tic Uhiot® of

  

 

1 oy and ab the wt
4

 

 

Ja a, cctal orfc te

 

 
  

hin. In dew
vention® carr

44 Juba and special photographs vere shoxn to
portan’ position in the tnevivalist aon-Inter=

. souatrtas, the reads awest ic) |

 

 

Pp he hag ‘wilt up an exsellint ranjert, is an

 

 

inveiuable asset for GTO
to use this channel cm :

 

3. The station cusses

editing, These are sives ais}
tirely, and he has shown zr ff % Tetorest tn this wee'tly oricti«

he has asked for s.
vhincese berder var
Cetooer 7
rersonalicies rho were
oc te visit; inde:
SUfiv3 and forvarded 42

 

ty

 

 

 

 

te Tho geint tay

the rost ivcortant ncurses of poatl

     
 

exico. The Jtation is
wasis. There is a ny
full ike in the LP,

 

veral occasior:

    
  
    
   
   

statich for [

  
 

pelicy race e presets Aiacdader has choren

to tro FRRAYL satertal after proper
“pbly so that & the information ‘ill be

« In fast,
nqs, and ene such report om the India-ged
On his trip to ths var cast in
ricNinuse So ortant
or‘ pro-cor.
', and India.

Japan, and

 

 

   
 
 
 
 

  

 

 

 

the vane ‘trai: these dines on a datly

Pe. ABENAAT (p3}, che

 

 
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)

THROUGH: ppp/Pc
SUBJECT: Project LIENVOY Renewal

Foreign Intelligence Statr recommends renewal of Project LIENVOY.
With its 255 positive intelligence disseminatlons during the past year,
SI/INT has pointed out that it is the most productive project, in terms
of volume, reporting on Mexico. It is ulso the most productive
telephone tap operations, in terms of volume, of all our tap efforte.

The reports on Cuban matters and reports connected with President Kennedy's
trip to Mexico were of especial value. ~

 

EON
chief
Foreign Intelligence

Attachnent $
Project .
 

26 February 1983

Project LIZN/G{ _Wi/Mexico

FL operation employing audio syevatiiancs andl

. l. PI/INT files contain 255 positive information disseminations
produced by Project LIENVOY during calendar year 1962 -- 130 regular CS
disseminations, 114 teletrpe resorts on subjects of current or priority
interest, and nine transnittals of official documents from Communist or
leftist organizations in Mexieo. LIENVOY reports provided information

on the Mexican Communist Party (POM), the Popular Socialist Party (PPS),

the new but increasingly pewertul National Liberation Movement (MLN) —

an anti-US, rro-Cuba Commnist Front, on other From! or leftist organiza-
tions, and om individuals active in these organisations. Among the persons
of intelligence interest mest extensively reported on were Vicente LOMBARDO
Toledano, head of the PPS amt an official in the Yorld Federation of Trade
Unions; Jorge L. TAMAYO Castillejos, an avowed Marxist appointed to a
government position; Brawlie MALDONADO Sandez, Coomunist former governor
or Baja California; the former president of Mexicg General Lazaro CARDENAS
del Rio, heat of MLN; and.General CARDENAS' son, Cuauhtemoc CARDENAS
Solerzano. LiZhVOL providei aso information on Mexican contacts with
Soviet Sloe ewatries, with Oca, and with leftists of other Latin American
countries; on Communist smi leftist publications; on Prensa Latina and
other Cuban propaganda efforts in Mexico; on the reaction of Mexican and
international Comaunists to the imprisonment of famed muralist David ALFARO
Siqueiros, ard cheir activities on his behalf. Valuable reporting in
connection wivh President kennedy!s visit to Mexico was provided — Communist’
plans for sabctage, the Goversrment's tactics to inhibit their fulfillment,
ami information on fayorabie reaction to the US Presidentts speech expressed
remithist members of the MIN. Among the disseminations

secretly by pro-Con
which had to co with Cuba, a camber reported the transshipment of goods, a

subject of special intellisence interest and one, which reported the views
of high-level government officials concerning the Cuban crisis, was described

by CCIts analyst as extrenciy valuable.
y

 

 

 

ai {9 January 1953) FNIO cites as Third Category
Cojectives the following to which LIENVOY
reaction of Latin American Govermnents and reonles
the wilnerabilities of particular

 
   

2. The recenthy=

> Priority
reporting is

" to develorments in and with respect to Cuba;

   
   
 
  

 

SECRET

 
 

SECRET

countries to Castro-Conmunist subversion ..eei Among the projects
collecting intelligence information on Mexico, LIENVOY is the most
productive in terms of volume. In addition, the hish level of its
sources and the technical means by which it ds acquired give the
reporting significance and authenticity.

3. PI/INT considers this an excellent project.
RENEWAL IS RECOMMENDED.

yb
tay at ESTEY,

Chief, FI/INT,

a

SECRET
 

i sae veoutcr
{ aterovar

SECRET
LBSes Faliot gay

Pecsect caves Naw

a, MERTON

lise a its

 

DIVESTON

Division

 

pee.

f Pengoas

Fr 1963-h

AELO STATICS
Nexico City

orse
__Kexico
case orricee ~

c Py} stes-Videla
ROOM MOL Teo TLO ENG
3801
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISTON

 

amance

 

 

TYPED NAME (Nd eigeature)

 

wehbe ht beeen. ~

ces at see

 

Sefer

 

 

28/8. Hughes

ined

 

 

ee

Ue Fek @

CORCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

 

tg

 

 

 

s-60 848

_-a/H. Estey

 

 

San)

APPROVAL

 

“TFETEt AMOUNT

 

 

 

OOS Late weEeE as
eatteona.

SECRET : (3)

BR AREY Cat earewemae er ererencom ees svmerineenmentaen a ————
 

 

104-10186-10044

“DISPATCH |

0 |

D

Chief of Station, Hexicu City

 

“We qian
MEATS} ARTORS OSB.

 

Feo

‘SR HECT

Rewoved from Project Kodics de
CS Classifications 90 "6° aos
fo g 73 6 79f/9¢

Joxso27 Folds 2

ACTION REGUNIED BERR HENCES.

“Wa pausing * bao er
:_ Chief, WH Diviston tae god od
di

be es
LIERVOY Project Renewal wi 4.93

 

 

REF: HMMA-20408

, J. The LIENVOY Project was renewed on 29 March 1963 for
the period 1 February 1963 through 31 January 1964. for a total of
$47,068; $18,210 for FY 1963 and $28,838 for FY 1964.

2. The renewal request submitted with reference was changed
‘to reflect that only the Czech, not all Satellite installations
are covered by this Project. Attached is one copy of the
memorandum prepared at Headquarters forwarding the request for

approval.

“ 3. Headquarters noted that the Station did not include
LIENVOY~6 in the Project Renewal request. Headquarters records
indicate that this agent is still:.active. [If such is not the
case, please furnish an Agent Service Record go that the OA can
be cancelled and the file retired. |

4. In the renewal process, KUTUBE commented that the Cuban
reporting and that connected with President Kennedy's trip to
Mexico were of special value, and they recommended renewal.
KUDESK concurred with the Station's plan tu move the intercept
center for the reasons stated hy the Station. KUDESK commented
that the project activity ig bound to become of interest to
various opposition elements and the Station is well-advised to
make necessary changes to Provide for and improve on the security

of the operation.

2. With regard to the moving of the LIKNVOY tap center, a
separate dispatch follows regarding the syuipment requested in
FAMIT-3380 .

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments: Fyen Pages ava/e
q ges

    

DATE TTD | DATE DISPATCHED

Distribution:
0x1 - Cos , Hexico City, W/Att

{SBOE REFERENCE £0 DIS RIG SYMICA AND MURMUR

   

HMM W-11457

Mt ALGQUAKTENS FILE NUMBER

_|vonnn

   

1 = RI W/O Att "WH/3 /MEX/ Cc. Bus tos ds

1 - Chrono

 

 

 

WH/FI | 4 April | |
ae

 
 

  
      
  

 

RELEASING
> awatome

* Raford W. Herbert

 

 

 

"
AC/WHD |
74-0000

PROJECT:
ACTION :
PURPOSE:

1

DDP/PG/FI Projects
27 March 1963

 

PROJECT BRIEFING
LIENVOY _ WH - Mexico ;
ADDP approval of renewal l Feb 63 - 31 Jan 64
Project provides for a joint cIa/Mexican Government

telephone tap center and for a'nonofficial liaison rela
access to the

  
 

zechoslova
installations and major anti-U.S, elements are covered
by the operation. —

Project has provided Station with a channel to the
which is effective, rapid and covert,
and was particularly worthwhile in making arrangements

for President Kennedy's visit to Mexico in June 1962.
The [ was also briefed ‘on the Cuban
situation through this channel. The joint tap center

provides coverage of 30 lines yielding positive and CI
information of value. Division reports 236 positive
disseminations on a variety of topics with concentration
on Communist and anti-U.S. activity. A large amount of
information not disseminated is used by other U.S.

agencies in Mexico. The Station _feels that this opera-

   

 

 

 

 

tion contributes greatly to the
toward U.S, policies.

 

PUNDS :

PREVIOUS
APPROVALS:

$47,068 $18,210 in FY 63 $28,858 in Fy 6%
Compensation (11 persons) $33,068
Operational expenses 2,000
Supplies and equipment 2,500
QP vehicle upkéep 1,200
Safehouse rental , 2,500
Entertainment 3,000
Purchase of information - LIENVOY/2 2,800
1 Feb 62 - 31 Jan 63 $ 43,230
1 Feb 61 - 31 Jari 62 59,690
1 Feb 60 - 31 Jan 61 53, 7840
1 Feb 59 - 31 Jan 60 1633537

 

a
 

STAFF
COMMENTS :

 

FI and CI Staftss concur in renewal.

FI STAPF: FI/INT points out that the project 1s

‘the most productive, in terms of volume, reporting

on Mexico. it is also the most productive tele-
phone tap cperation, in terms of volume, of all
our tap efforts. Cuban reporting and that con-
nected with President Kennedy! s trip to Mexico

: were of especial value.

CI STAFF: Concurs with Station's plan to move the
intercept center for the reasons stated. The proj-
ect activity 1s bound to become of interest to
various opposition elements and the Station is well
advised tc make necessary changes to provide for
and improve on the security of the operation.
