 

 

 

 

 

AGENT SALARTES oO . $08 per year “FY 1964 FY 1965

including X'mas bonuses) - . i . a,

"> Raymond H. GERENDE 6,000

Oliver &. SCANTLING oat » 5,900

“Louise J. MACRINO — - * nd ‘salary
(at $US 2.02 per hour) ot

Nerewprys
 (&b US 1.75 per. hour)

| LIEMPTY-6

LIEMPTY-7 |

_LEEMPTY-6.

LiEMPTY=10

LIEMPTY-11-

LIEMPTY-22

LIEMPTY-15

_ LTEMPTY-24

| LIEMPTY-i9-

LIEMPTY-2!+

   
 

2 »400

 

2,400 |

5 7000...
ik h00.
2,500

2,000
a“

 

- 2,000
2,000

2,000

 

no salary . _ . -

SUB TOTAL . BUS: 39,500 "SUS 24,3540. SU8°15,160 -”

    

cance’ of MV-2279;.

  
14-00000

 

 

 

 

+ . wo
. Orie: 0
os L : .
.
- my ” -. 4 ’ .
oar a sot . . er ra i who
mh rc ;
a ou .

6

tle

Operational xpenses. aoe, - , US Per Year F¥.1964 . iy 1965 P

 

 

 

 

Real Estete. :
Rent, whilities ond maintenance. °
.of basehouses - :

LIMEPED* a - . . 3,300
LICALLS*# . "2,700
LILYRIC Ct "1,200

' Procurenerit of safehouses, post
‘office boxes, and rental of — Be
automebiles - . : 500 -

Purchase oi information, documents : . .

_ and bribes . - 2500 ~~ a . “
SUB TORAL - 9,200. 5,390 3,610 0-0
’ Repair, maintenance and purchase of , °

. replacement photographic equipment ;

and purchase of film 2,000
"SUB TORAL . 1,000 ¢ ° . 560° ko
GRAND TOPAL $s 49,700 $US 30,290. . $US 19,410 ©

VII.

     

IMERGANCY CONDITIONS P

       

nebsency reeontact arrangements ror OL iver G. SCAR ENG and Ragntona He

: GERENDE are on file in Headquarters (see HMMA‘ 15982 of 23 November 1960 and -

HMMA 15532 of 23 Noveaber 1960+) For further information see project renewal -
request. of 1950 forwarded by HAMA 15979. . . : oo

   
14-00000

 

   

 

a.

TIT.

vt.

 

ERFECTIVE ENESS

Ae Past Froject | Year - - Station records show, ‘thes. _ Prog
. BY.

Be “Net Projec

  

dn

- ordered by her doctors and an operation may be necessary in early 1964. .
Tt is therefore unlikely that. she will be able to work during the coming
“project year. Station does not plan to request cancellation of her operational

clearance at this time, but has not included salary payments to her in the
estimated costs of the project for the Coming year. : ;

The unusual salary increase reflected for LEaety- ~19- in the "Project costs" —
processing in addition to her old duties as translator. Agent's OA. was ‘amended
for this use on 2 January 1963. . ae aan

 

_. @he Gommehts meade concerning the project! s “effectiveness: in the. Project © .
Renewal, of 1960 (HMMA 15979) remain valid. Indee@ thé Station's need for the -
type of services provided by the assets; of this project are. at. least ‘as great

today as they were when those commerits vere originally forwarded. :

; There are presently no know major! problems facing the operation which would . ~
affect. either the security or the effectiveness of this operation. . The security .
problen facing the LICALLA portion of the. operation and described in HMMA-15979
and subsequent rehewal requests has ‘beeh resolved by the. Cuban Government 's. release: .

of three KURIOL personnel earlier this year. As was noted previously, one of a

this _group had imowledge of the LICALLA, operation.

th SCANTLING and GERENDE took the LOFLUTTER. during the month of October a vo

. 1965. No security problems Were revealpd by this test.

PLANS

i

 
 

‘The Station considers that the project 4 is operating | at its optiman 4 size and.
does not dlan to expand it during the coming years Efforts. will be continued to.
refine and detter utilize the existing project organization. and to » improve the, :
compartmenvetion and security of the project.

 

' COSTS. o i

 

   
    
 

3 et LIBMeTe, expended, epore
: 63). .

 

   

of the total
be expended in

   
 
 

 

&
aa
2

mately SUS 36,

naer $US. 49,410 ins.
FY’ 1965. ; mone ae

 

 

  
 

 

 

“has

(CHANCES CES

   

2. "D9 collect operational inforsation and identi fy operational: leads: °
pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP. operati on,
handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor. to this objective. . ue
LIENTRAP operational emphasis continues to remain in the area of ‘photo: stakeout a

‘of prominent Mexican Communists and is presently working fulltime on providing |
‘pictures of individual Comimitists > homes suspected of being meeting sites used”

by the. Communist ‘Party and the Communist Party Headquarters itself. . LIENERAP .
has also recently. begun to be used on ZAKNICK leads. .It is expected that
activities of }TENTRAP in that jatter area will ‘expand in the. coming. year.

-3. “Lo provide operational support to Station operations including + ‘the
renting of hotel rooms and safe apartments, veriting and servicing of post office
poxes, and conducting. counter-survel Liances." .GERENDE's contribution ‘to the ~~

 

 

. AMROD operation was noted in paragraph I.As3.a. above. GERENDE's comprehensiv: a mw

area knowledgé and personal operational capabilities ehdble Him to make a-

. Valueble contribution in.such operations as AMROD and also enable hin to procure | M,

the most desireable safe sites in support of the. Station's operations. ‘The
project's assets, particularly GERENDE and LIEMPTY-10, presently provide 20.

 

_ post office box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other: Stations. oO
' Although i} is plehned to reduce this nimber considerably during the next year, ve

(since other: Station assets now ear provide a number of Live accommodation...

_ addresses), a mutiber of post office boxes wild be retained for use in future ,

operations,

4, The quality and quantity of opsrati onal, int fortation ‘produced by the :
photograpnie bases and other activities under GERENDE's. control and supervision .
is considered by the Station worthwhile and in some cases unique. It is con 7

eluded, therefore, that this segment of the LIEMPTY Project should be contimied..~ :

c.- Relationsh hip to the Related Mission Directive

As noted in the examples given above, Project LIEMPTY has provided valuable.

enepee to many Station operations and thereby has been a contributing factor to) :
i2itiment oF the Related - sion objectives of thé Station. ‘The project. -

  
    
 

telligence nor is it intended to do so. The :

vro3 sole ourpose isto “seovt de a zechanisr for the devel opment of opera-. i

‘tionel information.

   

 

ppee OZ 08 ee

COPY HO. een

 

 

  
    

 

 
14-00000

 

 

  

“CURRIN OBJECTIVES AND FRODUCTTON RELATED THERITO i ee of,

 

 

A. Oliver & SCANTLING Segment. Ga relation to project objectives.)

. l. "Zo collect operational: ‘ information pertaining to LINERICK. ‘personnel
and physical facilities." SCANTLING has continued to provide worthwhile in-
formation im support of this objective. | (See previous project review. forwarded
“by HMMA-20052 of 18 October 1962.) - During the past year SCANTLING ves used:to
; . follow up leads produced by both LIFEAT and LIENVOY in support of this objective. .
ot _ In particular SCANTLING provided, in blueprint detail, easing reports on the - °.
i , homes of two Soviet intelligence . officers who are, targets, for * Station technical”
operations. : i

SCANTLING also is used to aid the Station in maintaining ‘current records“
nees of Soviet personnel living in Mexico... This is accomplished by-
folicwip of LIENVOY leads which indicate Soviet. interest in renting
ne specific ‘properti es. : : . a eT

 

2... "Lo collect operational information pertaining to other « targets: or op- .

' portunity, foreign official installations and personnel of ifitelligence interest

operating in Mexico,”-. SCANTLING has proved suceessful in providing ‘information:
on other Station tarsets:

 

a. SCANTLING obtained information on ARMTOEILED-2, ; a suspect Soviet
support agent which was the basis of further Station operations
against this target. : .

b. SCANTLING provided a casing of the former Yugoslav Coumercial
Office against which the Station had planned a technical operation.
However, this site was evacuatéd by the target. mission before
plans were compléted for this attempt.

Se ANTLING has condueted detailed investigations in various cases
ovolring possible agents. or contact ts of hostile intelligence ser~
vices. These cases were oF prime concern to Stetion Mexico but .
frequently were underteken at the request of Headquarters or other

   

“were concerned

‘the reporting pe
operations have °
the most fruit

  

; however, the w
mn other forms. Ex
Forts on SCANTLING's

    
  

  

  

3 fu ox

fi
i
i

   

   

 

Pigs QS
- COPY NO. -

 
 

 

 
 
  
   
 
 
 

 

   

jpos : t

   

 

|

‘a. Support of the sensitive AMROD operation, ‘in which Reymond a 7
GERENDE also played a vital role, was of singular importance to.
the success of the operatio . SCANTLING's - Fields of op--
eretional experichce were drawn on fully and. he thereby provided,”

- ag unique contribution to the operation.. Without the assistance |
’ of SCANTLING and GERENDE with thely unique qualifications, this
opération would have been aifficult in the extreme at indeed ‘at
ail possible. i : foe

   

3. th subport of the Station! 's harassment campaign against’ Juan Jose

: AREVALO Bermejo, Launched at the réquest of Headquarters, o we
SCANTLING again provided the wheans for carrying out a large portion .
of the. action taken, ‘ SCANTLING's efforts ranged from the mailing ,

. of “poisoned” candy, to the target.‘to the pla > or threatening |
phone calls. SCANTLING also made calls to various Mexican news~
abers and railed "montage" pictures of AREVALO and @ Sovii
telligence officer to Guatemalan newspapers in the campaign to
aiseredit and discourage AREVALO. in the Guatemalan. Presi dential”
campaign.

 

      

    

 

-¢. SCAHTLING is used as the alternate contactin a sensitive LAURICLE
project. This is for the purpose ef minimizing the danger of the-
action agent in this project t being recognized. as being in’ contact a
with an obvious PBPRIME citi gen; SCANTLING's contr: ution to this.
operation has been noteworthy both’ from the standpoint ‘of security -*
and egent handling. . me

  
   
 
     

_&, SCANTLING continued to conduct numerous pretext and neighborhood:
‘investigations. As in the past many of these investigations were’
in relation to highly sensitive cases, . : _ mo
i

SCANTL:
and oti

    

 

 
  
 
  
   

MITED, LILYRIC and
iG now acts as cubsut with
for the processing
from LIMITED. To avoid be petition, the ‘St
the functions. of these three bases and how tl
This vas ful de. seriped in the: 1950 ‘Re squest Tor

LICALLA,
the. u

 

to be respo. tion

 

above .ob3
(HMA-1597!

   

 

 
 

   
14-00000

 

 

8 ¢ SERRET

trained CLACKETT in radio controlled mobile surveillance.
SCANTLING also has rendered valuable support to. the LITACEIT:
operation having gained entry to the target under a. fabri-
gated cover. He has also cased and prepared reports on the
LITARSY target in preoaration for future operations and per
formed inves igations of numerous other Station targets of
coportunity. He investigated many leads from other audio- °
surveillance operations enabling. the Station to maintain.

‘current: data’ on various Soviet. contacts and resulting inva -
-reeruitnent attempt which, while unsuccessful, is believed:

od,

‘to Indicate future potential along this line, He has fur~

 

ther bean-used to develop radio orocedures for the mobile
teans and to rent various. properties in ‘support of other
Station operatious. °. The. GERENDE segment, using ‘three base

~ houses for photography, produced uowards of 12, 000 photo~ ...
'- graphs during the year. One base has recently begun ‘taking’

motion pictures of Soviet personnel in the course of conver=
sation which have been forwarded .to FI/D 3 for possible exploite-
tion by lip reading analysis. This segmént algo operates. the.

 

 

. mobile radio surveillance vehicles. A mobile photography sur-

veillance truck has been. used during the oroject year for .
coverage of various Station targets “which ‘do not warrant the - -
establishment of. permanent ‘photographic bases. . GERENDE: has
also served to rent post. office: boxes, hotel rooms, etc., in

 

‘suppor’ of other Station operations. During the past project
year CACK :

 

TT, who returned to!Mexico in early’ ‘April 1959 ©
after Headduarters training, spent the following two months
being trained by SCANTLING in mobile surveillance techniques.

 

‘He. then under 00% training of a four member teat which was’

dudged ready for operational use toward the end of the project.

“year. Two additional contract agents, Wilma J, FIORDALISI and - .
‘Louise J. MACRINO, performed translation and support functions.”

+. Appropriate staff components coticur in recommending

  

erature notes ‘that the Ci value ¢6f the project
eult to guage since it aopears that much of th
produced i

       
    

  
  

the value of ¢
AGKETT -s veil

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
 

104-10054-10049

   

 

MEMORANDY. TH BOR: Chier of Operations, DD/P

 

¥ (Renewal)

 

" SUBJECT : Project LI

‘WH - Mexico * oS

1. The attached project, originating in WH Division;: te:
presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through’ |
31 November 1960. The project provides for physical” and, photo~

' graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation’ of
‘ other Mexico City operations, particularly those: targetted at:
Soviet personnel and installations.

 

    

2. fut hority is requested to obligate 384, O19 fromthe

‘DD/P-WH Divis: operating budget: $49,455 Por Piscal

an 1380 and or fiscal 1961, sub ject to the availability

Lom of funds. : sums include $61,910 compensation for five.

Tae . contract agen nts (three of whom serve as principal-agents for:

ee segments of the oroject), and sixteen support agents; $3,590 . |

; for vehicle maintenance and commercial carrier travel; $7, 500. .

for operational equipment; $5,000 for maintenance of three _
gafehouses; 62,900 for additional safehouse, post office box,
and vehicle rental; $1,000 exchange commodities; $2,000 "key"
money, broken contracts,. etc.3; and $2, 090 for. the purchase of:.
information, documents, paym ments ox” ‘bribes, etc.

   

 

 

 

: 3. The attached renewal request, preparéd in the Division ~.
ené supported by a projeet review orepared in the Field, reviews
the activities of the project during the past year and present _

ea breakdown of the funds requested. Tne project !

: (a) Contract agent Oliver G. .
asset who is used to Follow-up and : hale
tional information ofl target personnél. and installa- "| [
|
i
f

 

    
     
 
 
 
 
     
       
    
 
 

@ verious installations of interest,: acquire pro-

~ (9) a photogrannic surveillance teain, under prim-- |,
Raymond i. eke DE, utiligi taree houses -or.. apa. t
t sical surveillance tean

congisting cf three

 

 

   

     

 

     

  

Plage

PLE 2 / :
Cory BH oF

 
       
14-00000

 

 

  

(vb) Ri /ors notes that while the project review pre-
-semts a clear picture of the aims and objectives cof the
various segments, it does’ not provide,. except in- the -
case of SCANTLING, detailed indication of the value or oo
usefulness of the ogner-segments, particularly the photo-  *. / .
_ grapnic activity. BI/0Ps requests that the Station sro- = | i i
_ ¥ide such an appraisal during the first quarter of. 1960. ow
‘*“ET/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage be _
a . . geviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with. '
a view to determining whether the LILYRIC activity could _ mor,
not be safely eliminatéd and the additional photographic -
coverage conducted ‘ena more selective basis, . without - . |
materially affecting overall usefulness. “FE/OPS notes .
that, in the absence - of further proof of uséfulness, the
color photography ang. moving pictures. ‘appear to be an’.
unnecessary Luxury. FI/OPS commends the careful handling:
‘oP the CLACKETT seaitient and requésts that the next project
ion: inelude examples of the tean' 'S progress. ' *

 

 

 
     

 

commend renewal of Project LISMPTy as oresented S|
n to the staff cotments ‘in paragraph 4 above... eg,
. |

 

 

Foreign Intelligence oF op

 

ga 8
“Date

   
  
 
  

 

Staff Coordination:.
For. C/rl/OPs: - ar
Bor CI Starr
Por c/coD .
 

 

SECRET sage

~SEAPTON SS

 

Jer ay Le NEARCOS, Case Officer Willard C. CURTIS, Chief of Station

     

  
       
   

.
ari
“ad

bee of Pe
MELO 8 Sar ae

COPE: BOs,
