74-0000

 

. - : -2--

 
   

Personal Meetings. Subject is willing to meet anyplac
or time” Within reason) with the undersigned or a representa
tive from this office.. The case officer should introduce
himself as a "friend of Bill Thompson's" and be prepared to
produce his half of the physical bona fide (attached herewith)
upon request from Subject. The bona fide is one-half of a
yellow typewriter delivery ticket, upon which have been drawn
two approximately parallel lines made in Subject's presence.

It is noted that Subject probably will not ask for this, judging
from past experience with him. Please, also note that Subject
does: know the undersigned by his true name, so that after initial
use of the name “Bill ‘Thosipson" as the recognition phrase, use

the true name of the undersigned in discussions. .

In order to aid the case officer in spotting him {although
pictures of Subject are available in his file) Subject has been
instructed to make the meeting carrying a copy of TIME magazine

folded in half with the cover outward. .
5 ‘ Cp, O&
+ Items of Interest. » fee ate
A. _AWLASH/1's PAA Girl Friend. RIP was not able to give

us the full name of the French-born, Miami-based Pan-American
stewardess who is, according to Subject, a very good friend of
AMLASH, and the one whom AMIASH was trying to get to come over to
Paris last August. Subject did know, however, that her first

name was Loretta,t and promised to call Miami to determine her
family name’ This, he will mail to us at the accommodation address,
_ The party in Miami that Subject will contact for this purpose is
Sylvia Vilarello, of 3502 SW JASth St. Miami.’ The relationship of
Subject with this girl eSylviay is not clear te us, but he made it
obvious that discretion would be appreciated in the matter.

B. Alternate AMLASH/! Commo Channel. We advised Subject,
in answer to his question, at we ha eard from AXMLASH, but that
his reply had not been very satisfactory and more important, he

z had not provided an address at which he was ta receive mail from
ey) “Jaime” | Upon hearing this, Subject volunteered
that he Several sources that AMLASH had visited

them on four occasions asking if they had any word from Subject
These were Subject's cousin
“Fomento 603 Palatino Cerro =
(603~ or 605 Subj forgets which)
z y Sola Stos Suarez") He anked the former
three times, the latter, once. Subject siys he trustn both aen
explicitly, and has used them before to get lettera handcarriod \y

to A Si. The “courier” from the States in this case ta )
an old frtend of Subjgct's and long-time eaployee 9 rc) |
narra Kmbanuy in Havanad ees the leters in Miami either “| /
fro RKiaself or fro He er trusted friend of Subject, NG
(telephones TU S-1324 and fU 7-5307) the firat being

he nvcond, his hone) ~

 

  
 
  

 
   

 

   

are
 

 

104-10183-10054)

 

RETURN

gund Use Cs

1G Cid

oy

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMWHIP/1 Meeting, N

 

ew York City, 23 October 1962

1. Meeting Time/Place. Subject was contacted by letter (see
file) requesting a mee ing. He answered in the affirnative

by letter to the assigned acc
signed subsequently went to Ni
Subject by telephone at his o

ommodation address. The under-
ew York on 23 October, contacted
ffice, and arranged for a meeting

-at 1330 at fhe Forun restaurant, on 48th between 5th and 6th
Avenues, The contact took Place without difficulty. After

lunch, Subject and the unders

igned went to the former's office

an order to verity some information related by Subject at lunch.

The undersigned left Subject‘
returned by air directly to ¥.

8 office (see file) at 1610 and
ashington, ;

2. Purpose of Meeting. To maintain contact with Subject, pay
hin thé sum of $400.00 to cover the remainder of expenses incurred

by Subject in the AMLASH recr

uitment last summer in Furope, and

to determine additional information as described below in this

report.
3. Travel and Financial Arr

A, Travel, Subject st
the uncersIgned or another re
or any other city...whichever
He stated that business was a
did not mind any reasonable t
him for this consideration, a
this might preve most helpful

B. Finances. Subject
accepted in Tlew of some $409
obtained. This amount repres
dental expenses in Paris for

angements.

ated that he was willing to meet with

presentative in New York, Washington
would prove most convenient for us,
little slow just now, and as a result,
ravel to effect meetings. We thanked
nd stated that perhaps in the future,
to us.

was paid the sum of $400.00, which hoe
-00 as stated above. A receipt was
ents $299.20 for hotel bills and inci-
Subject and AMWHIP/L, and the balance

for a plane ticket for AMLASH Prague-Paris and return,

4. Contact Arrangements,

using the accommodation addre
file) in the event he wishes
his office. He has been info
the underatyned to be in cont
that he would be contacted by
person would continuc to writ
Thompson", and will identify
callu an a “friend of B1i11 Th
can be made by letter, Coleph

Subject was instructed to continue

ss he has been provided (see Subj's

to communicate with the underaigaed or
Tmed that it may not be possible for
act with him for several months, but
another member of my office, This

© to Subject signing the letters "DALY
himself in the event of any telephone
ompson's", Arrangements for weotings
one, OF a combination thereof,
74-0000

iS

 

Nn

 

”
va

nay
i
ao
Ae

a i The next time he could be expected was, according to
a, the Crista’; fefeat this plan. it is noted that

-3-

 

to please provide it as soon as Possible. By this message
. _AHLASH should send an accommodation address to his Madrid drop ‘
q@ifickly, that is, if he intends to keep in touch with us, Judging

the benefit of. the doubt, and feels that perhaps he did actually
forget to provide a return address in his SW letter to Madrid.

In any Case this will give us an opportunity t, a
inclinations, It is noted that the “courier”, b
Was supposed to come to Miamt on the 20th of not

about the end of this month. Travel restrictions imposed
iG

‘usually cables before he comes to Miami.

BS ; tional Lead. Subject stated that he_had discusse :
_. with ast August the possibility that one es
f — be recriitable. He stated that he personall Fito) e

a3 a person, but felt that he a good action asset |
on our side. He bad no BI o other than the fact 06
that he was, or is, a captain in the is a lawyer-by

“y y training ther 4s a journaliat, Subject stated that he
XN 06 believed was at one time involved in a bar-room brawl with
x

an Ameri en, whom he shot to deat t stated that
AMLASH/1 also did not personally care for b

DB. Subject's Recent Visit to Miami. Subject said he was in
Miami recently for sone me (about a week) on business, and also
saw and talked to AMCONCERT/1 and Lucia Echevarria. He said he
told them the story he was told to tell, i.e., that he had seen
AULASH/1 for some days _{a Europe, but had not succeeded in convinc-
ing AMLASH to leave Cuba, lio said that ho told them that AMLASH
felt that he was uncertain about a future away from Cuba and that,
although he didn't necessarily approve of the way tho regime was
handling things in Cuba, he felt that ho had best remain there, and
attompt to help Cuba to a better future to his own way and not to
fight, per se, against the regime, but rather try to live with it.
Subject. waa told about the atatement by AMLASH in his letter that
“,. bis intimate friend had sade a very indincrete phone call to
Navana...". Subject said he was mot sure whethor LASH meant by this
Lucia Echevarria or sylvia VILARELILO. te aaid he would look into
this and attespt to find out who it wan and what was said,

EK.) Subject Volunteers Servtoes, Subject offered to return to
Havana for “us UY need bey Tf woe could but Kuarantes his safe exit.
Wo thanked him and aaid that, although we felt he could da the mont
goad oul of Cuba Just now, we would tecp the offer ta aind. He

voosmad pleaned by thin. .

jo/SR
74-0000

ms

 

  

~4-

F, Roberto ECHEVARRIA, Commercial Secretary, Ottawa. Subject
said he had mef El only once and that was in Canzda during his trip
there last summer just before he went to: Helsinki and Paris for the
AMLASH operation. He said he didn't know where E: was just now,
but thought he was jot in Canada. We asked him td discreetly ask ~
his business partner, who was making a trip to northern New York
State and/or Canada this weekend, to make a phone call to the \
Commercial Mission in Ottawa, and to inquire for &., and/or when
be would be back, etc., if in fact he was not there. He can use
Subject's name or an alleged business matter as the pretext for
calling. He will advise us on the outcome.

G. Pending Trip to Colombia. Subject stated that he planned .
$e make a trip In the near future to Columbia to buy some emeralds.

“He will arrange the-trip in order to avoid being away from home

on 7 November, the anniversary of his brother's death, and which
day he understandably wishes to be with his mother and father., The
undersigned is not absolutely sure of this date, but if it is not
correct, it is not far off. A check of our files might clarify this

point, .

H. Passports for Sale. Subject said he had recently bought
two Cuban passports In Wiamf for two friends in Switzerland, whose
passports had run out of pages. Subject its concerned over this
market in passports and stressed the point to us. He said he paid
$50.00 apiece for them. The wholesale price is $25.00, Subject
informed us. He said he would be glad to get some for us if we
desired. We said we would acvise him. He did not know whether
he could get any diplomatic passports or not, but he would discreetly
check on this. Passports are availed used or blank. He thinks the
blanks are the real McCoy and not poor imitations,

6, SECURITY Considerations. There were no incidents of a security
nature to report, The undersigned had coffee in Subject's offices
while the latter made a call to Miami re{BORDO's expected visit to 0)
Miami. We chatted briefly with Subject's fatiier and one of the
partners. No questions were asked of the undersigned whatsoever,

and the conversation was polite only.

 
