 

Up/

who he, 2 aEs

co Law! . €

-2-
€. QYhe infiltration of black teams into Cuba is futile,

non-productive, and suicidial. The couter-surveillance block 4 Hoke

makes black living impossible in the cities and towns.

7. When the CRC goes, Fidel won't be able to hold the
flood of Cubans seeking refuge in the U. S.
8. Fidel suspects the Communists to have an mderground
apparatus. Blas ROCA is the leader of this apparat.
9. Fidel is bothered considerably when Carios Rafael
RODRIGUEZ is made out to be the main cog of the Cuben government.
10. The death of Fidel would result in a free for all--with :
each army.commander digging in for a show down. Calculated to
go down is Raul; given e good chance for survival, in union with
rebel army and navy leaders, would be "Che"; the Commies would
lose out. To AMLEO/3, the death of Fidel would be the best
answer to all.
11. AMLEO/3 hes a group of about 10 important people:
A. Conchita FERNANDEZ and her husband
B. U. N. Delegate Raul PRIMELLES.
c. in Mexico
D. Engineer Roman Luis MAYOR
E. Lt. WASQUEZ, Army officer

é Per uatare Races,
~

F. Augusto and Jorge ARCOS ( moliuas- &
_ ETS

 

will work with him in whatever way he asks.

. -| ern cond aan I {
ws cma ke aa

  
 

 
 

104-10306-10060

 

ars , - cn eens. ‘ E - ae
_ te wae | PEAS |

HIGHLIGHTS OF AMLEO/3'S DEBRIEFING

These are the highlights of my debriefing of AMLEO/3.
They are elaborated spon in this and other reports.

1. CASTRO may permit onsite inspection by appropriate
D. N. observers. CASTRO will then ask for a no-invasion pledge
by the U.S. .

2. CASTRO is the complete master of everything and everyone .
in Cuba. CASTRO's five points were extremely well received and
fully subscribed to by practically every Cuban in Cuba.

3. The professional officer cadre of the Cuban Navy and
the officers of the rebel army, as opposed to those of the militia,
are the element most likely to conspire against the Communist
oriented direction of Fidel's government.

4. The shortage of doctors in Cuba has made it necessary
for CASTRO to prohibit their further exit and in addition he has
recently raised their pay and given each a new automobile. A
further exodus of doctors from Cuba will cause a "panic" on the

SoueT doctest

island. This is one item the Soviets cannot furnish. Cxe HOt foo jue i
in Cunres'
5. A further departure of engineers would likewise damage
the regime, but they can be replaced by Soviet and Czech

technicians.

 
- .. -3-
12. -AMLEO/3 believes these would make ideal psychological
themes:

A. A subtle, careful build-up of Carlos Rafael
RODRIGUEZ. This conld begin with pictures of Fidel and
Carlos Rafael conferring in the Sierra Maestra. I believe
such pictures exist. The showing of CR as Fidel's mentor
both in Marxism-Leninism and in "how to organize a country"
will hurt Fidel, © G-%. Xesmigore

B. Certainly the Chief/SAS's idea of doing the same with

 

4
i

Fis

"Che" would be even more to the point. '"Che'' is known to

be a prodigious worker, "brilliant," popular and one who ‘a
ue

Med

does not fear Fidel. These are facets of Che's character 4
we 3

which Fidel undoubtedly would not like to hear’too often. fu
te

 

C. The truth must be employed-~-the use of materials

  

easily proved to be "lies" are extremely damaging and extremel
YP ng Y

well exploited by Fidel.

   
 

D. Postal cards (in color) showing the food counter of

a Hot Shoppe or-Howard Johnson. AMLEO/3 was genuinely moved

‘
ae

by the "beauty" of the food counter of a Hot Shoppe we visited.
tt voae Kos ALLA Te Lon de tive. baw Sey Carnac,

The same thing could be done of grocery stores, shoe store

windows, etc.

 

- padcice ruby cleatoad Golgate UL
tea . €
. Le
E. The pemphiets which gave the populace instructions
in simple sabotage tectmiques were "bothersome" and damaging
to the Cuban government.
13. Psychological warfare which was not well received:

A. Those works showing Fidel as a beast with long,
bloody claws, or as a donkey pulling Khrushchev in a wagon.
B. The “guseno" theme has not been noticed to any
degree (at least not by AMLEO/3). He considers this "too

common" a theme to have any value.

14. There will be no revolt or uprising by elements within

Cuba, unless the "Ziame" of resistance is kept alive and the

hope of outside help is not lost.

 

 
