74-0000

By tw 28 8 he oe OE de

significance of important information and will report in on their’

own initiative. It must be considered significant, in the light of
these considerations, that there has been massive silence on thé

subject over the years. Were there relevant or significant information -
on the subject it would have. been reported either in responseg to. the

expression of general interest, or spontaneously, if such information

was-known to Agency sources.

If one believes that there was a conspiracy, with Oswald involved,
one must accept the likelihood that his fellow conspirators would not
have shared the. knowledge beyond the narrow circle of those directly

involved. Conversely, if there were no conspiracy, there obviously

- would be nothing to report in the first. place. In either event,

- insistence that CIA produce something that proves or disproves the

conspiracy theory flies in the face of a view that absence of reporting
means that no collection requirements were issued.

The general collection requirements were addressed to stations

"with Cuban assets. The Miami Station did query its assets, but as -

was stated by the Chief of the Miami Station, in his testimony
before the Committee, we had no real sources. inside Cuba that could

be expected to help on this (page 58), much Tess “an extensive intelli-

_gence network in Cuba" (as stated at page 10 of the SSC Final Report) ,

that could be expected to have special access to. such information.
His characterization of acting in a "passive way" was seized on in the
SSC Final Report, without its qualifying comments. In fact Cuban

sources were made aware of interests in information .

 
74-0000

WUE VLA AL

While. the ssc Final Report undertakes to paint this in different
terms, it is very difficult to conceive, even today, what could have
been done in this respect that was not done.

“CIA Operations Against. Cuba

_ The SSC Final Report speaks of various operations against ‘cuba
and the: Castro regime that should have been reported to the Warren
Commission as part of the subject matter’ that jt consciously took
into consideration.

To demonstrate its case the SSC Final Report discusses Operation

AMLASH extensively. Because of the extensive treatment given that _ -

_activity in the SSC Final Report, we have addressed jt in detail

in one of the other annexes of this report (Tab A). ‘We feel that
the SSC Final Report did not analyze that activity carefully and as
a result misunderstood it, and that much of its presentation is.

therefore badly flawed. That will not be treated in detail again

here.

The discussion at Tab A does refer to other known operational
activities against Cuba, and the remarkable tensions between the Cuban

and U.S. _ governments. The following discussion addresses what has —

been done recently in CIA to review all other Cuban operations’ to see

what they may reveal relating to the Kennedy assassination.
In 1964 the people responsible for the various operations were

still assigned to the general field of Cuban operations. They knew

what was in them, and what was not.” Today, persons unfamiliar with

the files have gone through them jn'detail to determine if there was
anything in them relevant to the Kennedy assassination.

 
74-00009

 
  

  
  

 

_ taken into account the recently:
“- discovered fact that. UaVE cid issue

‘the resources or access,

“the U.S., out of

" HAll Sturbitts is zor

    

 
  

  

is will be rewrethen to

 

 

 

  
   
 
 

collection requirenents. to those” ;
agents insice Cuba » hovever Linited
. Further,
hovever "passivelt the posture in. 4
éeference “to ahh,

“BI, the fact-of actual requireqonth
to Cuban ayents should be: coverdd,
“to help 4

 
 

  

 
  

     

 
 
  

 

 
 
     
    
       
 

  
 

develop this. point,

  

   

 
14-00000

 

y

Essentially, the trip of Oswald to Mexico City was investigated

as thoroughly as possible without producing any evidence thous: of Soviet
or Cuban complicity in the assassination of President Kennedy. If
anything. events during Oswald's visit there are more subject to being
seen as counter to such a possibility, given his. troubles with both
Cubans. and Soviets. We do not offer this possible analysis as a
proper view, but simply. note that “if it means anything it tends to
~ Counter speculation to the contrary. . ,
General Collection Requirements
"On 22 November 1963 al] CIA stations abroad received a cable
(OIR 4608)
from Headquarters. with the following statement:
"Tragic death of President Kennedy requires
all of us to look sharp for any unusal
intelligence developments. Although we
have no reason to expect anything of a
particular military nature, al] hands
should be on the quick alert at least
for the next few days while the new
President takes over the reins.
It is appropriate at this point to coserve the general reaction
\ to be expected from such a communication. In this case, without -
any leaks, the requirements had to be general. General reporting
can be stimulated by general requests if there is something to report.
‘Beyond this, in any event, in the world of intelligence, reporting

assets and liaison services overseas are quick to realize the

 
 

’ Oswald Mexico Visit -- September-Qctober: 1963 —
The visit by Oswald to Mexico City, in his attempt to get a

visa for travel to the Soviet Union, transiting Cuba, has received

_ extensive attention. The details concerning the Knowledge about

Oswald is treated in another annex to this paper (Tabl). The
concern felt by all initially for the possible significance of
Oswald's visit, and his contacts with the Cuban and Soviet embassies,
was obvious at the time. The following statement is in a cable to
Mexico City on 28 November 1963: .
. "We have by no means excluded the possi-

bility that other as yet unknown persons

may have been involved or even that other

powers may have played a role. Please

continue all your coverage of Soviet and

Cuban installations and your liaison with

Mexicans." ; —
The allegations made by "D"- about having seen Oswald taking money from

Cubans received intensive attention from CIA and the FBI, working

——_ closely on the matter, and with:the Mexican authorities. Ctris-was-

Atemonstrated comet se-allegation. After the

allegations by "D" had been proven false, Headquarters made the follow-

 

“ing statement to the Mexico City Station on 1 December 1963: ° ~
"PIs continue to follow all leads and ‘tips.
The question of whether Oswald acted solely —

on his own has still not, been finally resolved."

 
 

 

Again, on 13 December 1963 the Mexico City Station was cabled as
. Follows: ; .
‘ “PIs continue watch for Soviet or Cuban reaction
to investigation of assassination, evidence
of their complicity, signs they putting out
propaganda about case. FYI only, Soviet Intel
in India had letters sent to ODYOKE readers
demanding full investigation of case." .
On 17 December. 1963 Headquarters forwarded a dispatch to the Mexico
City Station stating as. follows:
‘. . > Mexico City has been the only major
overseas reporter in the case. While this
partly dictated by the facts of Lee OSWALD's -
life, we have not overlooked the really out-
standing performance of Mexico City's major
assets and the speed, precision, and perception | ,
with which the data was forwarded. Here it was . -
relayed within minutes to the White House,
ODACID, and ODENVY. .
“Your LIENVOY data, the statements of Silvia
DURAN, and your analyses were major factors
in the quick clarification of the case, blank-
ing out the really ominous spectre of foreign

backing.”

 
SSC Final Report. Great emphasis is placed on the AMLASH operation,
and its not being reported to the Warren Comission, inaccurately
attributing to it characteristics and therefore significance that it did
not have; this js treated in some detail at Tab A of this report. Space
“is devoted to two aircraft flights from Mexico City to Havana, on oe
22: November and.27 November, respectively, failures by CIA and the FBI
being charged. In fact, the first of the flights is inaccurately
described, the correct story removing. the basis for the inferences’
- developed by the SSC version. In the second instance the subject ‘in
question was the subject ofa ‘detailed inquiry as is discussed at Tab
of this report. These -examples- create some problems , for the
reliability of the SSC Final Report unavoidably becomes the subject .
of basic reservations in the face of such errors. How to respond - ;
to treatments that seem contrary to the facts and that are uséd as :
a basis for serious criticisms pena Sa Wi it jis -
necessary to review the record to the extent possible, and report the
findings, whatever they are. :

Recognizing the possibility of error or oversight in 1964 on the
part of ‘CIA, even in terms of the more limited -perceptions of the time,
it was decided to consider what courses of action CIA might have taken
to throw some light on the questions as wane understood at the time,
as well as considering those questions that have been developed in the
years following. What would be the areas of inquiry?

Oswald was known to have been out of the country twice sub-

sequent to his return to private life from the Marine Corps. The

 
{04 #0403-10009]
a / *

 

CIA's Performance On The: Inquiries

Book V of the SSC Final Report challenges the performance of the
intelligence ; agencies during the Warren Commission inquiry, emphasizing —
things that #t Ete Sout ave bem done but which it asserteAiere

not. :

It is correct to say that CIA has not produced evidence or analysis
that addresses every theory that has been advanced over the years. As
a practical consideration, it is unlikely that every theoretical question
that can be conceived can be answered conclusively; there simply may
be no evidence at all, or if there is evidence somewhere, it may not —

“be accessible. The issue is what the intelligence agencies did, with
the SSC Final Report portraying what seems to be a pattern of neglect
or avoidance, which we believe is inconsistent with reason and the
record. _ ,

‘The SSC Final Report offers a number of separate subjects in
support of its case. It refers to.an allegation by a person identified
as "D" (pages 28-30, 41-42 and 102-103) that he overheard and saw

, Oswald being handed money in Mexico City for the purpose of assassinating
President Kennedy; this was proven false, both by polygraph and by
determining that Oswald was in New Orleans instead of Mexico City at
the time the incident was supposed to have occurred. Nevertheless,

this subject is treated in a confused and inconclusive manner in the

  
WNIT ER Bitten a sae see
. 7

‘First ‘of these overseas trips was when he went to the Soviet Union
“in 1959 from which he returned in June 1962. The second of these

trips was when he. went to Mexico City in late September 1963, from :

which he returned in early October 1963. In addition to these two
. areas of obvious inquiry, there is the problem of general intelli-

_ gence collection that might in some way produce information on the
: : subject. The SSC Final Report adds to these considerations opera-
“tions being conducted by CIA as part of a general U. S. program against —
. the Castro regime. These four general areas of inquiry are covered.
“ below.. i

Travel To And From The USSR 1959-1962 .

 

‘On 26 November: 1963 a cable was sent to Paris, ‘Rome, Madrid,

Ur& ap _ .
| Brussels, The Hague, London, and Ottawa

 

 

_ giving biographic information on Lee Harvey Oswald. It noted his
discharge from the Marine Corps 11 September 1959 and his travel
to the Soviet Union in October 1959, including sketchy details as -
to his employment and marriage while in Russia. Information was

-requested on: ;

. “any scrap information which bears on

President's assassination: . “

. On 27 November the various addressee stations replied, with

Co London providing additional: ‘details on the travel of

Oswald to the USSR. London reported that a British journalist ©

claimed that during his own. imprisonment in Cuba in 1959 there was

a U.S. gangster there by the name of Santos, who was living in

 

6K
14-00000

 

luxury in jail because he could not return to the U.S.; the source
stated that Santos was "visited frequently by another American
gangster named 'Ruby'."

Also on 27 November Ottawa: reported the "del ight" of the Cuban

Embassy staff over the assassination of President Kennedy although

the staff was instructed to “cease looking happy in public," in

“conformance with instructions from Cuba. to "govern their actions’

GOOD Le .
by official attitude of Govt to which they, accredited: “(fon

the same date, reported that the Soviets were shocked, blaming the

“assassination ‘on extreme right-wing elements. Otherwise, the initial

responses produced no other information.
On 29 November The Hague and Frankfurt were queried about
Oswald's travel back from the USSR. This query was followed on
2 December by a similar cable to Berlin, Frankfurt, Bonn and The
Hague. Various reporting produced details about the travel of Oswald
and his wife from the USSR through germany and the Netherlands en
route to United States in June 1962.
The other stations involved in these inquiries had no traces or .
information on Oswald; liaison services were also queried without
detailed results although there were some technical operations that

produced peripheral information about the reactions of various groups

_ under intelligence surveillance. Considerable exchanges were held with

the Warren Commission on Oswald's Soviet record and its possible -
significance. Book V of the SSC Final Report, in not criticizing thm
Agency's perfrrnance in this aspect of the investigation scems to have —

accented 16 as adenuate.

 

BR.
