74-00000

 

  

Nol. HOVWAT of 4

 
 

  

 

NUCLEAR RESEAECH LV CUB

4. The first notional mevtias of the hational itesearch
Institute CLVIW) was neld in Aasuct 197% nad, ugqcoriing

to a davana radio broadcast monitored by tae Bate on.
fanars related ta tac smacerul use

‘@ealt with “tho duentificetion of ron and manganese in
minezale by the woe of noutrons” and antther with revearch
in MWehancting the spysiesl procertics of bayasse. to sive ht
solidity and durwbility; an_order to aealove tals tue’.
bagasse was treated with muslear radiations." Tha =

cee geen ate Sater .
Py
Ne
ta
a
ee

8
ao
&
°
&
Pot
Se
o
a>
i?
wr

 

om :
¢

&

Ps
op

tt

2

ct

Aa .

   

. Departaens of Fabure vevelopnent of the Ein paeesig. Co: :
de la Flectriciiad. FLELTES eatinated 1290 aa the

 

2... Gh» 23 Cetober broadcast, nade by Aanucl Juan SadaZby
@ladsed that research into the use*of nuclear casngy for”
‘gvonosie growth suring the Rrevesas Lhe COUNT ess. .

 

  

Geban lesders exvectad to have muslow plants ce erR eh -
- @lectricity in wuba in the near sutures _ fore than 10.
. institutes, iacluiing DLN, wera involved du.the worke

 

3, A Prensa Latina reports. dagelined Loacew, appearet
‘dn oranas of 10 Veceduer, quoting the sussian Vicd-wdinister
Of Energy and Blestrificationa, Nikolai — NATTS4G, as -
gong cneing the crojact study ier an *atomelectiic"™. vlant
sin Gaba..  Yna plant would hava two roictora of +O or.
. -. + 800 megawatts. | (fhe prorocal tor such 2 study was :
a -preguaably discussed by tae avasian cnercy Jologation, .
, led by tue Uinister of Lnergy und clectricicationy Piotr
S MEPOROZEML, whaica visited Guba in the sevsoni wees of.
Vebobor W7Ss it wou ld algo geen probable that the =”
project was inciuded in tha agenda dealt wikn in the first
week of wecember by the fifth Cuban/.ovict meetin: of the
Conniasicn for Zcononle snd Scientific/Teshnical collaboration
ebich was led on the cuselan side by Viadicie W MOViKOV, ..
Vico-iresidunt of the vouncil of Winistera) » ; -

 

& Aa I have already resorted, a US professor of nuclesr
physies, Jerone STEFFEWS, is in Cuba at orcsent, lecturing.
as @avana Universitye There nuy, of Coursd, be no
connection between. SZ4FFENS and tue cuclear renesreh-
already taxing; jlace in vuba yor tauersonisleur power plandd.e
flowaver, whon I ot SIZFFEWS briofly on 7 sccesber (hiving -
already netois wile sone three days ‘eurlier) he sald ue
would Lake to moet umsia ab my office, or cociclly, as
there wero voveral matters corcerdaing hia work in cuda waied-

“we (the mission) sigat find of intercebe Theole SZULG

 

 

‘ grodueing th. necessary teshnicul aud seicotigic Knovledgag oi
 

[CS ae

 

‘No: con

ee : ; . — Date: 30. December 297%
ped

We attach, eannaeves: Ba ovenen:

| - ar

 
     

47 December 1908”

 

   

 

   

 

   

-RETURNTO CIA
Lee Background Use Only
ae : . ee a. - Do Not. Reproduce
nn Ol }
 

later told we that she isa ives SKEFFEWS a7 name avi.
offica telephone musber a5 be had asked Jor thea; she
acded rether systericusly that whatever is van he
wisagl to discuss was a matcer between the tuo ‘of us, ond
‘she bud no wisa to be involved (tris was anyvay stati
the obvious ag she was loivin’s two, asys laterje I Rope
to seo S7EEFEWS again and will report anytaing ol
_dintercste — , - 7 -

 

.5e° Since drafting the above I have spoxen to Dorothy :
SPLPTELS on their hetel teleshone on 17 December. She said
that they were leaving for Barbados on 18 Jecenver and. 60
were unable to accept tha invitation I had given then. :

-, She also remarked that the natter her husband had wished» |
to discuss bad lost ite urgency: - ‘At could wait until their |
next visit in 1975. es

 

  

wer wee
