14-00000

me > SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

_| it is important to note Mr. Duran can be

ted to comment in sone adverse way on this
subject. Moreover, we have no positive knowl-
edge if this money was originally Mr. Maheu's,
Mr. Hughes’, or some combination thereof.

: 3. We believe that Mr. Mullin should be given a more
complete briefing on the relationship betwee

Robert A. es as it pertains to e
includ current status as an :

CIA. We will encourage n to handle
any information he develops about with greater
discretion. Moreover, should the 8 G: « Hullin's

investigation present him with a conflict between the
interests of his employer and CIA, Mr. Mullin may be in a

4. Officers in this organization who know and have
dealt with Mr. Mullin vouch for the honesty of Mr. Mullin's
willingness to do what he can to prevent unnecessary
exposure of CIA's interests, Although he hag been deseribed
by Agency staffers who know him as “not a mental giant,*

5. It is my proposal, after consultation with
Mr. James Pp, O'Connell, DD/PTOS, that Mr. Mullin be briefed
on the cover relationship between Robert A. Maheu Assoctates

Say

 
 

[roeor24-t035t) |

4 oot

-~ “SEGRET an LU

25. March 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

VIA : Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT : Mr. Robert A. Maheu
REFERENCE : C/CCS memorandum, same subject, dated

17 Merch 1971

i. After further consideration of the problems posed
by th Mr. Robert A. Maheu by Intertel and
05 association with that company for

cover, I would Tike to recommend that a somewhat fuller
briefing be given to Mr. Mullin than originally envisioned
in my memorandum of 17 March. It seems clear to us that an
investigation of Mr. Robert A. Maheu's activities in Quito,
as contemplated by Mr. Mullin, will reveal that:

a. Hr. Jaime Duran, an Equadorian *
percenter-type" (who worked Closely with of
in. is hostile to Robert A. Maheu sociates |
because an believes himself te have been badly
treated by Robert A. Maheu Associates on a cable TY
project in which he shared an interest.

 

 

 

b, The sum of $10,000 was deposited in the

First National City Bank of Quito by Maheu as a
kind of "earnest" money (prior to) ean at 4
arrival.) This money was to ass °

the continuing. interest of Robert A. Maheu Associ-

ates in the cable TV project.2.On the day of his
‘departure from Quito,

  

 

 

 
74-0000

3)Py

 

 

and| and role in the removal of
the > the ts 24-The briefing would be

done by Mr. O'Connell and a member of my staff. Naturally,
‘pothing of an operational nature will be revealed to

Mr. Mullin.
/s[ ERICH W. ISENSTEAP
Erich ¥. Ysenstead
Chief, Central Cover Staff
Ce: ADDP
C/WR

 
