13-00000

Cj) TOP remy C4

EVES GY

-and various. years of imprisonment. He. seemed con-

sistently sensitive to correctional labor camps

ag the type of prison, and to several possibla
eauses of imprisonment: particularly homosexuality,
desertion-and felony. Interestingly enough he was
not sensitive to questions concerning imprisonment
for: self-inflicted wounds despite his story that he
had shot himself in the hand during the war. He
seemed more consistently sensitive to Siberia as

. the area of imprisonment but the results were not

as clear as on other aspects of his story. He seems

' particularly sensitive to the years 1954-1956, which

immediately preceed the period from 1956 onward,
when he began to. appear in KGB operations. ;

‘TOP SECRET
VS ONY

fi
i

 
13-00000

‘TGP SEERET
EVES ORLY

 

24 October 1966

  

‘SUBJECT: »: clyezeph, Examination. of Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO
: a Concerning Lee ‘Harvey OSWALD. on 168: October: 1966.

 

- Bas und:

Subject of. this report is a thirty-eight year old married
male. who, .on. 4 ‘February 1964, established contact with United
eoyian, authorities in P ‘Geneva, Switzerland and. asked for political
asylum a.

 

; ‘subject’ wad ) initially polyaraphed on 4. ‘April 1964 ata
covert. security location in washington, D.C. suburbs (see
IRD’ Report. #67491, dated 8 April 1964). ‘he purpose of the
1964 polygraph. interview was to establish whether Subject was
@ bona fide defector, or if he was a dispatched Soviet agent
sent: by: Soviet -Intelligence on a specific mission. The con-
clusion arrived at. during the 1964 polygraph testing was that
Subject was attempting deception; that he was not a bona fide

; defector, ‘but &@ ‘@ispatched . Soviet agent.

During ‘the interim, April 1964. ~ October 1966, subject
has. undergone additional interrogation during which an attempt
was. made to obtain the’ truth from Subject, and to clarify the
many inconsistencies and discrepancies which were evident
throughout Subject's version of his personal and professional
background history. Subject admitted to lying and falsifying
about some phases of his background only after long and tedius
interrogation and after confrontation with irrefutable facts
which Subject could not argie against. Subject has admitted
to exaggerating his own personal participation, his KGB rank,
and certain areas of his personal background. He has not,
however, admitted deception concerning two main elements of
his KGB operational history, even when confronted by logical
and factual contradiction in his story.

Purpose:

The specific purpose of the 18 October 1966 polygraph .
test was to:

a.. Attempt to establish whether Subject was in :
fact actually involved in the OSWALD case while OSWALD
was in the Soviet Union, or if his association with the
OSWALD case was only part of his cover story legend.

TGP SECRET
BYES GLY

 
13-00000

earlier, that he. has spent time. in. prison and that he is
not in fact’ a. KGB officer; similarly, his stories of his —

‘early school: and military service are inconsistent and —

 

..Wevare trying in this interrogation to
clarify. ‘this ‘important point. Among the points: covered ;
so far. ar ) the’ followings

 

oo Iden: entity: | NOSENKO. was questioned extensively
. On the. polyeranh concerning his identity. In one

: vaertes ‘o£ tests, for example, he was asked: whether

' -Minister of Shipbuilding Ivan NOSENKO was the father

' of Ward Ivanovich NOSENKO. and. was then asked whether
‘Minister NOSENKO was his father; similarly with

. Tamara NOSENKO, his- ostensible mother. NOSENKO did

- .not:reack to the question phrased. *Yuri Ivanovich
‘ NOSENKO",. but. reacted consistently when asked if
these were his own parents. He was’ sensitive to

- questions concerning his marriage. (There is reason

' to believe he is not, in fact, married.) He waa also

‘given.ia series of tests asking for the first letter —

' .of his. given name. The whole alphabet was covered,

' andthe polygraph charts show that he became increas-
ingly tense, culminating at the letter S$ (or perhaps
‘f). on both runs. While we recognize that testing of

this sort.may not give valid results, it certainly
gets over to NOSENKO the degree of our doubt and may
even help us determine who he really is. We will
pursue this further, covering his patronym and family
name-as well.

 

 

ce. Imprisonment: In view of the strong indica-
tions that NOSENKO has spent considerable time in
prison (as reported in the past), we questioned him
on this. He reacted strongly and consistently to the
question of whether he had been imprisoned in the USSR.
We then ran a series of tests to determine his relative
sensitivity to varicus types of imprisonment, various
erimes for which he may have been imprisoned, various
areas of the USSR where he may have been imprisoned,

TOP Seenry
EYES Oey
13-00000

re
ee

be NOSENKO was again queried on
ged restaurant meeting with
an cer, whose name he gave as
in 1962 andi_ in 1964. He could not clar.
why he had confused the names. Since we now know _
through Greville WYNNE that the Soviets were inter~
‘ested as. late as early 1963 in clarifying PENKOV-
*s allusion. ina bugged conversation in 1961
- tou! we believe that NOSENKO's 1962 version
_ was: @. KGB. fishing expedition.. However, NOSENKO Jf
didnot react to a polygraph question concerning
the name(_ | and he may not himself know that
he was given a wrong name for the] officer,
nox: why.

ee Admiral, vo RONTSOVs It had been apeculated
that when NOSENKO mentioned in June 1962 meetings

the name of his “big friend* in the naval GRU,
Admiral VORONTSOV, . -he may have been fishing for

' comments from us concerning Marshal VARENTSOV,
PENKOVSAIY's protector. Queried this time. about

_ Admiral VORONTSOV, NOSENKO said that he had never.
met: ‘him. arid-had ‘no personal or similar connection?
he. seems to have completely forgotten ever ‘having
claimed: a" Pergocnal’ Felationghtp.’ ;

 

 

 

  

- HOSENKO was. asked about
: : ex Claimed to have handled

1960-61 in. Tisacow as an agent against the

-NOSENKO .again: said ha first me met

(in 1960... We: told. ‘NOSENKO that. old us

‘that he had: not met’ ‘NOSENKO: until. 1962. NOSENKO denied
this. -We .then.added to his concern by telling him (untruth-

- fully; but°with-a reasonable estimate of the true situation)
that also ‘said that “the KGB had told ‘him to say
he. first. met ‘NOSENKO in 1960. When polygraphed NOSENKO re-
acted: strongly. and. consistently to questions on the subject.
‘These reactions. and our follow-up may well bear on the ques-

Ee wad actually recruited by the KGB,

‘with the PBI, NOSENKO must be

concerned | ‘because. he now says that ‘the case was

primarily. GRYNAZOV's, not his own, al ig OSENKO,

"supervised" it. Thus disappears the sole case that NOSENKO

has claimed, as his. very OWN»,

+: Pa Identity and Personal - -Background: One of the basic
questions. underlying this operation is NOSENKO's real identity

. and personal backgrounds There are many indications, reported .

10? SET

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

(‘TOP seener
EVES Wall

‘message. SHAKHOV's background in fact suggests that
-he is actually _a.KGB officers his contact in eee

 

 

 

 

  

SHARK, a former CIA cooptée in Moscow, \is
at the center of NOSENKO's story. We-slante ae

questions to suggest knowledge that SHAKHOV is a KGB
officer (not a KGB investigation suspect) and that
we may know of some of his important operational
contacts. NOSENKO was inconsistent in his story

and reacted significantly under polygraph examina-
tion. We are currently tracing new names and data
and are re-examining the significance of this matter.

KGB Control in Genevas HOSENKO reacted very

‘strongly and consistently to the question of whether

or not he had been sent to Geneva by the KGB to con~
tact CIA, whether he was receiving KGB direction
there, and on related questions, including some re-
lated to his ostensible investigation of Pavel SHAKHOV,

ec. U.S, Personnel and Installations in Geneva?
NOSENKO was interrogated on his earlier story that
he had seen in Geneva in 1964 the file on KGB activity
against American installations in Geneva (KGB cryptenym
*"SKORPION"). His version this time conflicted with
his 1964 version but contained the same message, that
the weak and understaffed KGB in Geneva had little

interest, limited facilities and no success in opera~

tions against the Americans and had practically no
idea of the identities of CIA personnel there. In
ad@ition, NOSENKO reacted to polygraph questions
related to whether the KGB had toid him the name of
his CIA case officers, On the other hand, he did not
react to the names of the then COS Switzerland and

COB Geneva, which suggests that he wag not told them

(these names were buried in lists of names).

da. KGS Personnel_in Genevas NOSENKO's answers
to questions concerning Alexandr KISLOV conflicted
with certain details earlier reported, including KIis-
LOv's role in the AECHITCHAT case. He seamed disturbed
by the questioning on KISLOV and finally said he saw
mo reason to answer any more of them. However, his
polygraph reactions did not suggest that he was as
sensitive to KISLOV as to other individuals and matters
covered in the same series of questions. We also asked,

_with the polygraph, whether he was withholding anything

TOP SEERET
EVES GiLY

 
13-00000

1 TP seur

   

an conceraing his alleged. ‘agent. ‘Oleg GRINEVSKIY, an
- @££€1telal of the Soviet delegation; his: reactions’
suggested. that he may genuinely be ignorant of

 

 

 

 

at the time. He had earlier
| “gaid that his dally access.to the KGB Residency in
. Geneva ‘in 1964 wag due.to his frequent contacts with
‘Mikhail .S...FSYMBAL? this time he said that he only .
”gaw  TSYMBAL twica in Geneva in 1964 and failed to
'. “mention a/Sunday meeting with TSYMBAL which he had
| Feported to us at the time it occurred. This leaves
- -@pen the whole question of how NOSENKO can explain
' Chis daily acceas to the Residency, which he himself
now. says - evidently on the basis of what he has
learned from our previous interrogations -— is not :
“normally permitted. This will be covered in further

 

 

 

questioning. ;
Te satan Related to the PENKOVSKIY Compromise:

aa a... John ABIDIAN's Visit to the Pushkin Street
drop: .NOSENKO. reacted with special sensitivity
Bese intensity when asked in a polygraph test whether
he had been instructed to tell CIA about ABIDIAN's
visit to the Pushkin. Street deaddrop. In addition,
he refused for the first time to discuss his own
participation in the incident, adamantly claiming
that he does not remember. when or even whether he
visited the drop or whether he read reports on
surveillance coverage of it after ABIDIAN's visit.
(fe had earlier said he visited the drop at least
twice,..immediately after ABIDIAN's visit: he des—
«xibed the location and named the KGB officers he
went with.). In sharp contrast to his reluctance
to diseuss his personal role was his unhesitating
and confident response to other agpects of the
-Pushkin Street drop story: ‘he reiterates that .
ABIDIAN was under full time, double-strength sur-
veillance throughout his tour in Moscow and that
ABIDIAN was surveilled to the drop. He now adds,
for. the first time, that the KGB concluded that the
‘drop had been initially found by a U.S. tourist or
delegation member and that ABIDIAN was merely check——
ing out its suitability for some eventual use. (In
£act, PENKOVSKIY proposed the drop and ABIDIAN went
there only in response to the agreed telephonic
signal triggered by persons unknown, not by PENKOV-

SKIY.)
- - TOP SeeaeT
AS 62

 
13-00000

 

break. down sone of his obstacles to confession by showing

-us in a different and stronger posture. Therefore, we now.
plan to go beyond. the limited aims originally set for this
phase of the interrogation. We plan to continue the inter-
rogation in the hope of getting a confession; written plans
will be submitted when they are more definitely formulated.

_ . David E. Murphy
Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

Attachment
ec: Acting. DDP (w/attach)

Chief, CI (w/attach)
Director of Security (w/attach)

 
104-10429-10093

 

i suspected. contact with the KGB while.in Geneva in 1962 and
ES and
in. the:

“at. questioning: on: this: subject and refused. to-discuss his
“own alleged.involvement in the case. We also touched upon

'. to. strike home. We do not know what it is that keeps this

. participant ‘in the case. as claimed and that his whole
- story on: OSWALD was prepared ‘by the KGB and given to us
at ‘their: direction. ,

 

25 October 1966 ©

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence.
SUBJECT?- Yuriy I, NOSENKO

1.. The attached memorandum describes the techniques

“used and the results obtained in the first phase of the

present interrogation. of NOSENKO. The most significant
‘item to.emerge from this questioning and related: polygraph

- testing pertained to Subject's story on Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Subject's. reactions. to the polygraph indicate that he

- never heard of OSWALD until after President Kennedy's

assassination. in November. 1963, that he was not an active

2. Other areas ‘of strong reaction refer to Subject's

o Abidian and the Pushkin Street drop (key factor
NKOVSKIY compromise)... Subject became very. upset

 
 

NOSENKO's. parental background, periods of imprisonment and
homosexuality... His reactions here all pointed to clear-
cut. contradictions in the story he has told us.

ae . There still remain several areas of interest and
importance to be: covered with the- techniques used to date.
We “expect. ‘to. “complete this line of questioning by 28 October.

he ‘This ‘first phase. has enabled us to confirm our
analyses of key aspects of this case. More important is
the fact that NOSENKO knows he is reacting in sensitive
areas and this is worrying him because he is not sure how
much we know or how we learned it. NOSENKO's reactions |
have given us hope that we may by this procedure have begun

‘man sitting-month after month in his present situation.

We speculate’ that one factor may be confidence that the
KGB will get him out. Related to this may be the thought
that the KGB has CIA so deeply penetrated that.it would be
unhealthy for him to confess. Our current line of interro-
gation, expanded and used even more forcefully, might

TGP SeeRry ; |
EVES ONLY an

 

Fal-o38\ aor, \ oman wri

 
13-00000

. he: seemed‘

-portant new information, contradictions and indications
‘concerning the’ » background of this Operation.

(TOP seep
EYES Oily

 

 

24 October 1966

1. This is an interim report on progress to date in
the new phase in the interrogation of NOSENKO, which began
on 18 October 1966, and covers the first four days, 18-21
October. - After a break, it will restme on 25 October.

2. Our aims in this phase of the interrogation have

been limiteds in view of the possibility of losing access

to NOSENKO, we have sought (a) to. strengthen our basic report,
now. in preparation, by testing his story further, clarifying

- points of.confusion and revealing new contradictions, and

by polygraph examinations of key areas, and (b) to lead .
toward his eventual confession by directly exploiting our
hypotheses about the true background of NOSENKO and this
KGB operation, to convey to NOSENKO the impression that we

' know. more than. before, that we possess irrefutable proof

of his guilt and that he has no prospects for release. e
refrained from doing this in earlier phases of the interro-

gation, but at. this point there seems little to lose.

 

 

 

no 36. ‘The first. ‘four daya have shown that the method is
useful. :NOSENKO. again -proved:.a.good reactor on polygraph,
\Sturbed- by. our’ knowledge and the special areas
@ ravealed, and we were able. te develop im-

 

  

 

. fe Our basie approach has been to question NOSENKO in
specific ‘terms.on selected and detailed aspects of the story

_ hechas.:teold to date. We gave him no explanation for our

reviewal:. o£: the: interrogation, nor: thas: he asked for any. Our -
questions have been pointed and: detailed and neither require
nor. permit long-winded answers; they do not seek new infor-
mation but. are clearly. designed to check information he pro-
vided, earliery cur questions sre slanted to build up the
impression that they are based on data we have learned in=
dependently... The subject matter is taken up im a predeter-
mined order designed for maximum impact on NOSENKO. Inter~
rogation sessions are followed by polygraph examinations on
the matters covered in the interregation and/or other topics.
Somewhat more time is spent on direct polygraph examination
than on interrogation.

TOP SECRET
EVES ONLY

 
13-00000

 

TOP Ser ce
( Gis ed (
. Ls Ze

 

“Highlights to Date

5. OSWALD Case: The opening session was. a polygraph
examination: conducted by Nicholas Stoiaken, whom NOSENKO
recognized: as his earlier polygraph operator. The question~
ing: was devoted entirely to Lee Harvey OSWALD and NOSENKO's
yYole in the OSWALD case.” We hit this point before any other
in order (a), to permit clean polygraph testing on this key
matter. without having disturbe@ him with other questions,
and: (b),. to get over to NOSENKO the gravity of our concern
on this matter of highest: state interest. -The operator's
conclusions Weres ;

: ae Subject was not personally or - actually ine
volved: in the OSWALD case from 1959 | while OSWALD wag
- in the Soviet Union, :

be Subject received special instructions (from
the KGB) about the OSWALD case and what to tell Am-
erican authorities. about it.

Subject's alleged association with the OSWALD
ease “noth “before and after" the Kennedy assassination
was partly for the purpose of supporting and sub-
stantiating Subject’s cover story “legend”.

da. Subject heard of OSWALD (as a case) only after
Kennedy's assassination, however he was not an active
participant in 1963 as he indicates, but was probably
briefed om the case by a KGB officer.

6. Geneva Meetings: We devoted several hours of inter-
rogation and polygraph testing to the Geneva periods, June
1962 and January-February 1964. We hit this point second in
order because there are clear signs of. important deception
behind it and it offers us special opportunities to suggest
inside information which in fact derive from observation and

‘deduction. Among the high points were the following:

a. Pavel -SHAKHOVs NOSENKO's story of his "investi-
gation" of SHAKHOV, a Soviet delegation member whom he
sald was suspected in 1962 to be an American agent, was
covered again in detail. The new data we obtained tend
to. confirm that this is a serious part of NOSENKO's

TOP Seep
EYES ial 7

 
