  
  
  

es :

5

 

in Havana, but. felt he could resolve ‘these aifterences “wpon
his own return. : : fo, :

c- Problems Encountered by AcT while Operating in ‘cates

Some of the more significant problens encountered by AT a
- @uring the | course of his operations in Havens are as. follows:

 

(2) ‘Securit: : In this connection, AT statea that despite .
the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert

. from the danger of being picked up by G-2 or Castro police
during the course of his numerous operational contacts, He

' sited several examples where he ‘believed he was under sur- - .
veillance by the opposition and subsequently succeeded in allud-
ing this surveillences He complained that bis disguise, (hair-
piece: and mstache) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana climate
_and as a consequence he was forced to abandon this disguise tows
the latter part of his stay in Havana. Similarly, he was forced
‘to change his quarters continually, by moving from one safehouse
to enother as a security precaution, since-he felt that it.was
generally known in Cuban circles that he was operating in the
Havana area, and that he was probably already under the sur-~
veillance of Castro. security forces.

 

' so (2). Materiel In the course of thése debriePing
: sessions, one of A-7's 5 chiet complaints was espite his
en ; urgent messages sent through his cut-out’ (AMIRE-1)) to the Statio
ea : that arms and other military equipment were sorely needed by'

; . his groups in Havana and Pinar del Rio, no action was taken to
implement his requests. As a result, A-7 felt he was losing fac.
with his followers and this was one of the primery factors for

. returning to the States to discuss this aspect with Headquarters

(3) Weed for Direct Coummmication: A-7 stated that without the

- services of a W/T operator who could be in direct commmnication
with us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent return to Cus
in an operational capacity would be ineffectual. Hence, this:
would be one of the conditions laid on us.that when he returned,
a w/t operator would be essigned to to him personally.

 

. 7. Projected Future Assignment of A-7 in Cuba: Predicated on the assum
tion that A-7 will be sent back to Cuba.in the relatively near future, both

Mssrs. Pekich and.Petews;~ feel that his most significant contribution can be
made in the Pinar del Rio area, where he appears to have known assets in. the
hills. This, however, does got preclude A-7 from also operating in Havana in

_ developing sabatoge operations with AMPUG-1, whom we assume will cooperate -

_ with A-7 despite their differences in how these operations should be conducte
Moreover, should the AMYUM.complex decide to move into other provinces of

' Cuba.where military action is to take place, ‘A-7 would appear to be the logic .

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘choice in taking over the operations in this area ‘against Castro targets.’

In eny case, a decision has been reached that A-7 should not be’ dispatched
without a trained W/T operator who can be relied on to work Closely. ons
operations with A-7 inside the country.

  

8. ‘Case Officer Comments : Despite MeT's. tendencies. to ‘operate on

a grandiose scale, his disappointment in the lack of support ‘received on his
initial mission to Cuba; and his display of emotional instability at times, —
it is believed that his efforts can be properly channeled to work effectively
for us in Cuba. His motivation appears to stem from his personal arbitions.
to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can
assure himself of a priminent position in the future government: to be formed.
in Cuba efter the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination and.
the will to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal . .
ambitions from others who may work with him and.who may have altogether dit~
ferent motivations and sense of values. Hence, it is believed that A-7 .

will encounter problems in handling pede recruited or assigned to-him in
‘the course of his activities inside the country. AMPUG-1 can be sited as

a good exemple, where a clash of personalities has apparently alreedy taken
place. In view of this, A-~7 will have to be dealt with firmly and mist be _
convinced ‘that the success or failure of his projected mission will depend.

on his ability to develop confidence and loyalty among his followers once hé
is inside the country again. Similarly, A-7 must resolve his personal proble:
dealing with Lis-wife and in-laws, which has had an adverse effect on him
personally since his return, and may affect his operations inside Cuba. . The
next several weeks will, therefore, need be devoted to re-establish A-7's
confidence in our ability to support his efforts in Cuba, once he is sent
back, and working out his family problems to- obviate any adverse Psycholo-
gical effect which may be detrimental to his operations i Cuba.” :

fa

JOHN.
f 4,

[Wa aap
>

 

 

  
   

\

hd .

 

- SECRET

 
 

 

 

 

 

    

   

. Ae] stated that on 18 October he had sent an urgent nessegée a
. to his Hava coatact (AiG =1)) informing hin thet his situation vas
_ precarious and that he mst get out of Cuba as ‘Soon @s possible. Ac-
cording to A-7 his Agency contact was unable to provide any definite .
assurence that his departure from Cuba could be.expedited., He. then
attempted to lay on uni. ras to this end with first .
his operational contact, lana later his mother-in- .
daw introduced A-7 to a a paycpiatrist jin Havana, who
offered to assist him in getting out of Cubi%!
yten- -7's plans to get out of Cuba began 4 take shape,

 

 

   
 
  

 

a plastice06,6
+. On L Hovenber a negro
A-7's safehouse |

 

: . drove gto
and took him onydth Street pe Mariano.
On the morning of 2 November at 1100 hours, ved at the
LED

'Negro's house and told A-7 that he pianned ‘or Key West
Florida 5 November and would arrange to smuggle A-7 owt of Cuba by.

. hiding bim in the motor room of his yacht. Arrangements were made -
between the principals for A-]. to visit the yacht 4} November to in-
‘spect his proposed hiding plate on the yacht. In the interin period,
A-7 stated that he began to suspect that he may have fallen into a
trap and told the Negro that he was returning to the U. S. to bring
Tony VARONA back with him to Cuba. A-7 felt this was a good gimmick:

to use in the ever lanned to turn him over to the G-2. 66
After inspecting his x @ on the yacht, A-7 ‘old meet
didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and Suggest at
he Swim out to the boat, where he could be vi sea. “That
night (4 Hovember) A-7 stayed at the home 4 had a

‘ housé close to the beach at Santa Maria del'n ae

25 Kilometers, from Havana. On 5 Hovember at 0630 hours, A-7 began
i t in rough, choppy waters and was finally sighted by
yacht, ‘where he was taken on board the vessel. .'(A-7
5 sel) "he was. completely exhausted when he was picked up by the
vessel). : , : :

- RS 5, tot .
echt soma" } piloted reached
Key > = 5 Hoveiiber at 1145 hours:—z= 6a to slip avay

during the refueling of the yacht before the custom officials arrived
and immediately took off for Miami. Upon reaching Miami, A-7 went —

directly to his wife's home. reunion with his family. In query--

ing A-7 further on ho managed to leave Cuba: without any

tacles p : th by the G06, A-7. stated that ~
told -him that he refeived official approval for this trip: -
; re

2 stolen vessel from his yacht club, (Casino Espanol) ii
Havana, which was bei a him by American authorities if _
; Key West. Moreover, 1d A-T that he planned -to deave the

 

 

; in the course of the | |

ae

  

Of ky, .
 

 

 

 

 

"MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

 

suasacr: Preliminary Detiefing Report on. AMPANIC~7

 

Activities in Cuba .

_ 1, ‘he substance of this preliminary report covers debriefing sessions ~~
hela with AMPANIC-7 from 7 through 15. Novenber 1960. Both Mr. Pelkich andthe’
undersigned participated in these ‘aebriefing periods... The pertinent aspects =~
of these debriering sessions are summarized into four specific categories: .

a. AMPANIC-7's operational activities in Cuba from his.initial
arrival in Cuba 5 August until his departure 5 November 1960. Re.
b. Internal assets developed in Cuba for future operational, oe

c. Problems encountered by A-7 while opérating in Cuba. |

6. Projected future assignment in Cuba.

 

2. Mr. Jemes Pekich, who was AMPANTC~ tg case officer during his initial
training in Washington,. was contacted by phone from Miami by subject on .
7 Sovember. Subject reported that he had arrived in the U. 5. “by boat 5. Nov.
and was planning to leave that efternoon by plane for Washington. A room was
pooked at the Washington Hotel in anticipation of A-7's arrival thet evening.

At approximately 1800 hours, A~7 called Mrs Pekich on the agent phone from the
Washington alrport to announce his arrival and was directed to go to the hotel,
where subject was ‘subsequently contacted by Hr. ‘Pekich and the undersigned. :

3. Upon contacting A-7 at the hotel, it was clearly evident that he was ©
in a highly emotional state which partly stems from his recent escape from -
Cuba. Jn his initial emotional outburst, A-7 stated that ve had not lived up

to our commitments to support his activities ia Cuba; that he didn't like the
Yaea of considering himsel? as” being expendable; that he was not. sure why we
sent him to Cuba in the first place if we had no intentions to support his
setivities inside the cowwtry. In short,. A-7 felt we. let him down com-
pletely and that he wes fortunate in escaping. without losing his Life.

Avter Mr. Pekich sueceeded fn quieting down A-7 following this initial =. :
~ ‘outburst, A-7 was. first asked to describe how he managed to get out of Cuba
without utilizing our channels to effect this exfiltration. es

 
       
     

 

; é*S0) SONTA®) Y(worth’ about $25,000) in Key , WBst, Florida, which he hop to oO pat
' . “wp. for-sale at: some. future date.. (It would appear tha afraid _
‘that all such vessels as-his’ would subs be natio: the Castro:

“yegime.) Prior to his return to Cuba lanmned to stay at the West
tie Harbor Tsland,) Miami - Tel: (PL I

      

   

. ook OF carts: to debrief: A~7-on his- operational ‘activities: in Cuba were
os ‘somewhat futile in this initial meeting in view of his uisettied: emotional
. state. His primary concern appeared to be his wife and his rather strained:
relationship with his in-laws, who were now residing in Miami.. In this con-~
nection, it shovld be pointed out that this emotional state appeared to stem,
in part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel- -
atively attractive) was being unfaithful to him. All indications are, however,
that A-7 has no real basis for these suspicions; other than those conjured up
in his own mind. Jn any case, he requested if it might not be possible to wire-
tap his wife's house in Miami, so. that he could have daily reports on her activi-
ties. While no prémises were made, A-7 was assured we would attempt to look ~~
into this possibility, once we had more definite information tliat there vere _
some grounds for his suspicions. (Note: Subsequent discussions yith Security .
office revealed that a wire-tap of A-7's house was a major project. in itself
and impossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considerable ~
personnel. ) A-7 was later. told this after we assured hin that his suspicions
were groundless | where. his wife. was concerned. * .

  

 

 

To. . 7. Be. Following. this initial meeting with A-7, it was apparent to both -
bo. Mr. Pekich and the undersigned that: time would be needed to restore agent's
confidence in our capability to support his efforts in any future projected
a assignment in the field. Moreover, A-7's emotional state, which appears to
ee stem from his problems with his in-lews and his concern about leaving his wife ;
ee: alone, must be fully resolved before attempting to dispatch him again.

; 6.. In later debriefing session held from 8 to 15 November with A-T,_
: considerable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational
: activities in Cuba. As previously indicated in. paragraph 1 of this report,
A-7's activities are summarized as follows: - ; |

‘a. AMPANIC-7 Operational Activities in Cuba: a
In line with his projected mission to organize resistance groups
in Havana and Pinar del Rio for mounting sabotage operations against

key key target installations and assasination of prominent Cuban Communist
menibers in the Castro entourage, A-7 appears to have made some ome progress
“in this direction from the time he arrived in Cuba in early August 1960
to his subsequent exfiltration 5 November. Upon arr: n Havana,
A-7 began a series of meetings with leaders of the OA, Triple-A and MDC
with a view to establishing some degree of rapport in the furtherance

i) of -his own_personal, objéctives. It is significant to note that.in --

' a period of approximately 5 weeks, A~7 made contact with over 42 indi-

' viduals, who represented various anti-Castro groups operating in the

Havana and Pinar del Rio areas. A-7. frankly admitted that he had spread

himself out too ‘thin in this nespect and that, in many cases he should :

 

  
  
  

 

ser

  
 

 

 

 

 

(2)

‘being organized by A-T inside Cuba.

_ picked him up. : &

 

~k.

. have- employed ¢ ‘cut-outs instead of attempting to contact ‘certain .
individuals | ‘himself. f,individual meetings vere also. held by A-7 with __
AMPANIC-5 a AMRUUG-1 with a view to establishing
some degree Yaoport and coordination of activities in the area.
..In this connection, A-7 cleims he turned over a number of his assets.
ever to AMPANIC-5, prior to his movement to the ESCAMBRAY, where he
was subsequently. picked up ‘by G-2.

 

Internal Assets Developed in cube for Future operational’ Use:

in attempting to sift out specific assets developed by A-T during

- his activities in Havana, three of the more prominent individuals with
- whom A-7 was - ain direct contact should ‘be ‘etal :

 

owner . of the es ae) ena, stomtso)
A-7 us ‘or pla .
selection of suitable lZ's ‘both. Pinar ae Rio

and Oriente provinces, location of. safehouses in Havana and
_ use of his garages for storage of arms and military equipment
which An-T anticipated would be dispatched - ‘to him, °

 

Je lewyer by profession, who has unlimite
contacts in Pinar déI Rio and who was working one with A-7
to form a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los Organo: ‘hiss
also selected to handle the propaganda for the "Cuba Libre” group

 

 

 

   
  

(3) a Cuban national who had served.
in the Y.S. Arty axa whoa rougit. in the Escanbrays ageinst Batis
forces a laimed he haa a-force of 150 men at his disposal
and was planning to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro

' forces in the Pinar del Rio area. Moreover, once proper materiel

support in the form of arms and other military equipment was made

- available to him by A-7 » be felt he could marshal over a thousand :

men in this area.

 

t : of.
(4) In addition to the? hoove assets, A-7 indicated, that i I)
(mow to him ad 7°
rendered him considerable assistance in moving sécurely about Hav

in the course of his operational contacts. In the case of AM =|
A-7 highly praised his abilities as a highly capable Case officer,
and he feared for his personal safety. He suggested thet Aire fro
should be brought back to the U.S. for a rest period, before” G2

 

(5) Finelly, ANPUG-1 who was trained in sabotage techniques in the

U.S. and was later assigned to A-7, was listed by A-7 as an asset, .
who could be chanmnéléa into more specific operations, once available

materiel was forthcoming. He felt, however,.that he and AMPUG-1
_were at considerable odds on’ certain aspects of. conducting operatiox

 
