104-10234-10114

wee ta .
ae
(7 And aecarat) plad-traie:
‘
ch . Pure tga. Qbtda ¢ ..66
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination 24 \
Records Collection Act off1992 -!t wr, 3°
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53217 6/20/17"
th the stadetts pre detre ds he che
BO.deta ee Lovaiste dade tare
s “f° .
Q what was said OF tie Suvict tecuniczans who gol UG cuba?
VA the pladests valued them, tsat ts, the students are wat tne
‘ regime Lf lived sith thuse aho were must cppusrd ty it, the
middie Class The peasants ab also elth tw ree. ne
middle class. is almost ite eutirety, hich saat mars. t
TuMe lode In Cuba what Fidel says as the trotn, fuerte » ne
discesnlow Of Pt. at that tame that s the aay rt wae. lt,
far @Oxamphe you wet GisCusaihg any subject aith a Cutan
and the Cuban said tu vu. Se. bat Bia i satd thas  tauat
Meant nut that «way. dou RNG whether Gbos tne sate foe,
bul at that tar th seved hae. Wt the ans. taatv.
pure there wote sar en, Dut tm dine. tor or,
MAAVeE ES ity was oabe ban das ses ated a port
adel a wondertiuasy stale aesh St Type Ne wae aE
Of ties. dh the ankvere Taek rats Many or era ms
\ { “ann To savang oxactiy what badd von is et
| \ocpanacn aehi then toes threes jas Gat akoie a guy
/ \ named hebedlor, dese Rebebion searc.dy di the yebocs tis pleaned
the atudvnts, this was tae only preblen tus gevereraat nad
nobody baked hin, tne Cabs were Bobb tu take @ crack at
C him, subedy liked tam
~
Q What otter activities did tee Venecaelans wae avre Uhtre
indulge 1m?
: WA. MAL that tine there sas a ot4ll group uf Venezsclans, first they
; ° started tee Cubar-Venegat tan Insitute, ahich «Xiots there toes
> they sel op what aan calles tne week of condtaiity fer verde la.
} Started 2 newspaper called Veneesela ri are tne paper
and tre destatue underteck TOUSBIETT Te betes. ad
: With tnat eark tne bene favs nad te. avout eve tying
rs ; whey sent Me ta a tabaccn facteury  tdeu. In thal fab tory anat
Was ging on in Vers darta ats .4plarerd.
Q Fron whem did you get liietractie whoal what you ar. tu say
about shat was going on an ene Zaeiae
‘ A. Well, as Cadaus say. that = not tae peants stall Poo far example
Gave we takk at the <enezae las dnotat wr Carlos 2
i Tater Federico Konsum abuut tae asPafeda tuat ache
: there s asether Venezcelarn Vilialeoes Uney abi talk
. wards they gave a let of abodreviatien- aud neice x tote

 

 

   

      

 

  

 

 

   
 
  
 

 

   

    
  

      

 

   

 

     

 

    

 

     

 

  

 

 

    

  

Then. through Pedro Franco you wangic?d your trap
How was that titp arranged’ Whe pard ter
leave Gaba? bith enat ducy

      

 

With tac Columbian pasnpert Thais as @oed lack if yca po
foen jiavana te Prague yerr gon ’t Aer d a visa then prem Prague
to Parts nd visa is ueessary, and ffin var tye Lereta you
don t need ene erther tral means Prom mavant toonegete
without a tbsa.

: Ska — Pinsaahe |

 

     
 

 

 

te Jad you biases aan

eres

 

 

 

 
