 

(UR)

  

a.

review Showed:

The
= fview

The agent w

xr *
JKLANCE Station in Havana, He was later re
to this Station, This in itself is enough
him Suspect

nO idea w
backeq up
employees
former si

4 POSsibi

  

p .
building formerly Occupied py DAFGHAN-1

Only within the last two weeks has

this clein’ with Photos of various
and visitors Shaking their fists

te, Hindsight now 1

an AMFINK
e

Photo
ty teste ODNFGHAN potas} there is stil]
lity that misuse Of KDAFGHAN Photographs by
he.

(Cither JKLANCE or LNERGO ové* ¢

that neo? CK-4 on Various
a

'S been recently ter

doubts about him,

 

PAGE NO,

2 of 40

     

 
 

 

aa

 

  

p__chief, western Hemisphere Division

 

 

   

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

 

 

    

  
   

~~ aua-41087, : 29 ‘september 1971):

MEXICO CITY 18336, 24 a er Aga

“References:

 
   
 
  

HMMA-41240, 5 November i
AMMW~ 18065, - 24. August{19

“Fanaa fs ay

  
 
  
  
  

  

MEXICO CITY-18654, x

    
 

   
  

Action Required: . _ Paragraph 9.

      

 

     

1. Summary: Information came: ‘to HEX taduring: his: period.
which causes the. ‘Station. to: believe, tha FGHAN may be under
the control of,.or known to, . AMSTAFF, ...The. Station mounted. an @0% -
operation to determine. ifthis is true, but was.unable to complete
it. Our efforts continue. 2atails are given.below,...: Production
quality and the percentage ‘of identifications. increased « Costs is
remained within the allowed AMOUNTS oss ae

    
       
   
 

     

 
 
  
 

     

2. Security: As ‘Headquarters ‘is aware ; TYPIC ‘operations: at.
_this Station have been unproductive since early 1968. Consequently,
‘the COS, the DCOS- and; more lately, the TYPIC Chief, have begun.to
plan and work TYPIC operations on the assumption that AMSTAFF. is ‘on
to us. An incident. in th DAFGHAN operation. -in the past quarter -
tends to add weight to.our hypothesis. In submitting his: November.
accounting, (DAFGHAN-1 inadvertently.included .a bill fora’ long- .
distance ¢411 to PBRUMEN (Reference B).o2 While this in: itself is
not enough to-convict (KDAF GHAN-1 (or (KDAF GHAN~2,, ‘there is nocn-) _ ‘
indication on the bilias. to which one of: them made the call), 2it> ;
is enough to show extreme indiscretion on his part. .This prompted !
the Station to make a complete review of the case and to plan.a-CI :
operation designed to show. whether or not“@DAFGHAN=1 and: ae
was under control of, or being monitored : PY) ‘AMSTAFF The “results

are as follows: woke ag a : Les

    
   
        
        
   
         
   
 
     
       
 
   
  
 

"Continued.

  

Distribution: -
Jorig. & 2 - Chief, wHp). °°”
1 - cos, WH/ Mi ami “cp can

   
 

 

   
 
    
  
 

to assets Gnomes Feo photos), there 15 stiii
a possibility that misuse of (GDAFGHAN photographs by
either JKLANCE or LNERGO overozthé: years may have also
been a contributing factor. We note that they were
shown to, {KDTUCK-4 on various occasions in the past and
that he Was -been recently terminated because of our ;
doubts about him. eee

   

Continued.....----

 

 

 
 

_ GLASSIPICATION $j
   

 

    

  

The simple length of time that this agent has been
in operation could also be considered as a possible
factor in exposing him sooner or later. We also
note in passing that his home telephone line shares
the same pole distribution box as that of the AMFINK
consulate. . :

 
 
   
       
 

; : . : ve

f. One item that becomes evident when reviewing (KjAfcHAN
files is his repeated failure (with some few ~
exceptions) to get photographs of suspects or agents
that the Station knows visited AMFINK while he was
purportedly on watch. .

  
     
  

 

    
 

4. Given the above the Station decided to%mount an operation
designed to determine once and for all if the KDAFGHANS were os
either under control by AMSTAFF or if their activities were being
monitored by audio coverage of the Safehouse or OP site. The
DCOS designed a sophisticated scenario to be played out by the
Case Officer which would, one by one, eliminate or prove each of
the above possibilities. No other Station assets were used, this
to eliminate any possibility that they might be the source of a
leak. Without going into a mass of details, the plan basically
involved letting enough information slip bit by bit to, &OAFGHAN-1
so that he, or some AMSTAFF Case Officer on the other end, would
draw the wanted conclusion; namely, that 201-327262 was working
for us. Unfortunately, just as we got into the preliminary stages
of the plan, 201-327262 was recalled. It is our opinion that the
operation had not yet gone far enough to consider this recall as
proof of our suspicions, but that it was mere coincidence. Hovw-
ever, two points that arose during this operation do bother us.

At one meeting KDAFGHAN-1 mentioned (or let slip) that the AMFINK
chauffeur had gone on vacation. While the Station was aware of
this we are hard put to understand how he knew it. Then, during
the same conversation with the Case Officer (perhaps realizing
his mistake?) KDAFGHAN-1 began to backtrack and started to tatk
about how he*"thought" the chauffeur "might have" gone.on vacation.
The second. point is that he almost invariably reports within a
few days when an AMFINK employee drops out of Sight. He has yet
to mention the departure of 201-327262. This attempt by the
Station to resolve the matter having come to an inconclusive end,
we are starting over again and will soon begin another similar
operation.

   
    
  

   
     
     
 
     
     
     
      
      
    

 

  
 
    
      
     
       
         
 
         
      
       
   
    
     
    
     
        
  
  

g) 2 .

5. Plans: We are working under’ the assumption that AMQUAKE/
AMSTAFF either looked for and found (KDAFGHAN-1 or that they found
him through checking out his mail and calls to and from relatives
in PBRUMEN p27 We are further assuming that they then either doubled
-him or (KDAFGHAN-2 or that they are successfully monitoring the
operation through a combination of physical and audio surveillance
(we note the fairly recent arrival of an AMFINK referred to as
"el tecnico" ~ 201-886735 - whom we believe to be the younger
brother of 201-812106, ‘The latter, our records show, was last
kgown to be the,chief of the JKLANCE section of AMSTAFF.) While .

OLgDAFGHAN-1, and (KDAFGHAN-2, will obviously have to be terminated, ‘A
we first intend to do our best to prove our hypothesis. If this p& |
can be done, we may be able to put this to our advantage. In the
meantime, he will be handled under the strictest of compartmen- ?
tation. He will be given no further lookout assignments, be give
no indications of our particular interests in any individual
AMFINKS or their activities and, obviously, we will not proceed
with the plans for the audio operation which we suggested in

qin)

FORM
e-64 53a-
(40)

 
     
     
    
       
     
     
   
 
  

 
     
       
       
     
  
     
    
   

Continued.......

   
 
 

  

 

CLASSIFICATION: ©

USE PREVIOUS EDITION: ; s E Cc R E By

  
   

PAGE NO,

 
  
 
 

CONTINUED 3 of 4

  

 

 
   

 

DISPATGH = a ciuigt a i
SE CR BS & et

 

 

paragraphs 14-16 of Reference A. We will start_a search for a
replacement site and agent as soon as ill start _a_search for a t
they believe the continuance of such an Operation iS worthwhile

@ attr teves it is). We inté oO contr G@ handle
the agent just as before, indicating our greatest confidence in
him. We will proceed to improve his equipment and operation and
go ahead with the planned technical consultation (Reference &)
to demonstrate this. No sensitive equipment or information will
be involved. We further intend to SGSWIRL this agent at the first
opportunity. He was last SWIRLED on 18 April 1967.

6. Other Operational Developments: Other than the above,

the operation continued as usual. The Case Officer had another
dawn to midnight stay with the Agent to observe AMFINK and its.
activities and to work with the Agent on improving his. production.
Quality of the photographs has improved and IER) passeort p of the
PBRUMEN visitors has, with the use of KDGL CIER) passport photos
increased drastically - we are now hit ring’ over eighty percent
identification of TDYers and transit personnel. The planned MO
studies mentioned in paragraph 12 of Reference A have not been as
successful as was hoped for. 2 £DAFGHAN~1 and 2 are so set in the
routine they have established over the years that the above
mentioned instructions to change their way of operation have met
with resistance. This is being overcome. The one outstanding
event of the period was our obtaining a photo of & EMENT-6's
alternate courier (to which KDAF GHAN-1 had not been“alerted).

. 7. Agent Personnel: No changes. The break in their regular
routine occasioned by our requests for more work on their part

and by the extra and irregularly scheduled meetings caused by

our CI operation seemed to have increase MAFGHAN-1's already

bad state of nerves. The Case Officer sent “him on a three day
vacation to Acapulco to calm him down - and it did somewhat.

8. Administrative/Finances: No changes.
9. Headquarters Action Required:

fa. Advise if Headquarters concurs with the Station as
to the desirability of continuing with this type of

: preration after the projected termination of the
OU(KDAFGHANS.

 

b. Please pass this dispatch to the JMROD unit. Their
suggestions are solicited.

, oz
c. Please retrace all known relatives of (KDAFGHAN-1
and 2 and advise the Station of the results.

Dice how 7 | |

pee FESSO R. GARDALPHE

CUNT OS RAR TEP TIE 4 SRS COMME PNY ere ee ec te

 

fo

ay (86 é- 422 f

° CLASSIFICATION es Orne PAGE NO,
acs 53a a ;
o64 USE PREVIOUS EDITION. SECRET wwk.. Ino] ONTINUED 4 of 4

 

 
