74-0000

 

Communist Polittes) Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries,
and affiliates, including:
Alabama Peopie’s Educational Association
Florida Press and Educational League
Oxiaboms League for Political Education
People’s Educational and Press Association of Texaa
Virginia League for People’s Education
Congress Against Discrimination
(Sea Committes to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Connecticut Committee to Ald Victims of the Smith Act
Connecticut State Youth Conference

Gouncil for Jobs, Relief and Housing

Counell for Pan-American Democracy

Council of Greek Americans

Council on African Affairs

Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

Dat Nippon Butoku Kai (Military Virtue Socisty of Japan or Mili-
tary Art Society of Japan)

Dally Worker Press Club

Daniele Defense Committee

Dante Alighieri Society (between 1635 and 1940)

Dennis Defense Committee

Detrolt Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee

Elsinore Progressive League

Emergency Conference to Bave Spanish Refugees (founding body
of the North American Spanish Ald Committee)

Everybody's Committes to Outlaw War

Pamilies of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims

Families of the Smith Act Victims

Pederation of Italian War Veterans In the U. 8. A., Ins. (Assocta-
sione Nasionale Combsttenti Italiani, Federaztone degil Btatt
Uniti d’America)

Pinnish-Americen Mutual Aid Society

Fiorida Press and Educational League (see Communist Political
Association)

Prederick Dougiass Educational Genter

Freedom Stage, Inc.

Priends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutachiands)
Friends of the Soviet Union

Garibaldi American Fraternal Boctety

George Washington Carver School, New York City

Germen-American Bund (Amerikadeutecher Velksbund)

German-American Republican League

German-American Vocational League (Deuteche-Amerikantische
Berufsegemeinechaft)

Guardian Club

Barlem Trade Union Council

Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee

Helmusha Kal, also known es Nokubel Heleki Gimusha Esl, Zalbel
Nibonjin, Helyaku Gimusha Kal, and Zaibei Heimushs Kai (Jap-
anese Residing in America Military Conscripta Association)

Hellenic-American Brotherhood

inode Kai (Imperial Japanese Reservists)

Hinomaru ai (Rising Bun Flag Society—a group of Japanese
War Veterans)

Hokubei Zaigo Shoke Dan (North American Reserve Ofticers Asso-
elation)

Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense

Hungarian-American Council for Democracy

Hungarian Brotherhood

Idaho Pension Union
Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)
(See Independent People’s Party)

Independent People's Party
(See Independent Party)
Industrial Workers of the World
International Labor Defense
International Workers Order, ite subdivisions, subsidiaries and
afillates
Japanese Association of America
Japaneses Overseas Central Soclety (Kaigal Dobo Chuo Kal)
Jepanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1949
Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)
deffereon School of Social Science, New York City
Jewish Culture Soctety
Jewish People’s Committes
Jewish People’s Fraternal Order
dikyoku Tinka! (The Committee for the Crisis)
Johnson-Forest Group
(Bee Jobnsonites)
Johneonites
(Bee Jobnson-Forest Group)
Joint Anti-Pascist Refuges Committes
Joint Council of Progressive Itallan-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Wedemeyer School of Social Science, St. Louls, Missouri

Eibei Seinen Kai (Association of U. 8. Citizens of Japanese An-
testry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)

Enights of the White Camellia .

Ku Eluz Elan

Kyfthacuser, also known as Kyffhacuser League (Kyfthacuser
Bund), Kyfhacuser Fellowship (Kyffhseuser Kameradachaft)

Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyfhaeuser Eriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights
Labor Research Association, Inc,
Labor Youth League

League for Common Sense

League of American Writers

Lictor Bociety (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American Peopie’s League
Mario Morgantini Circle
Maritime Labor Committes to Defend Al Lannon
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination
(Bee Committes to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Massachusetts Cormmittes for the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not connected with the
Minute Women of the U. 8. A. Inc.)
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee
Michigan Civil Rights Federation
Michigan Council for Peace
Michigan School of Social Science

Nenka Teikoku Gunyuden (Imperial Military Friends Group or
Bouthern California War Veterans)

National Association of Mexican Americana (also known as Asocia-
elon Nacional Mexico-Americans)

National Biue Star Mothere of America (mot to be confused with
the Blue Star Mothers of Americe, organized in February 1942)

National Coramittes for Freedom of the Press

National Committee for the Defense af Political Prisoners

National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith Act Victims

National Committees to Win the Peace

National Conference on American Policy in China and the Far East
(@ Conference called by the Coramittee for a Democratic Far
Eastern Policy)

National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent

National Council of American-Sovist Friendship

National Federation for Constitutional Liberties

Netional Labor Conference for Peace

National Negro Congress

National Negro Labor Council

Nationalist Action League

 
 

PERSONAL HISTORY STA’

snsenttypena a SAN IZED

Listed below are names of organizations identified py the Attorney General,

TD MA n mes
3 . . 7 - Ii Miran ny .

OOS Wide now -

wy

i“ para
BON ayy .
— a vin onl gat peg ye BO
ee ee ata ey Sipe a
- ae ele Ss aig

responsibility pursuant to

Executive Ordér 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association,
movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fasclat, Communist, or subversive,
or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or yio-
lence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of
government of the United States by unconstitutional means. .

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following list of organtzations for certification

purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade

Abraham Eincolm School, Chicago, Mlinoia

Action Committes to Free Spain Now

Alsbama People’s Educational Association (see Communist Politi-
cal Association)

American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Inc.

American Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions

American Christian Nationalist Party

American Committee for European Workers’ Relief (see Socialist
Workers Party) -

American Committee for Protection of Porelgn Born

American Committee for Bpanish Preedom

American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in Birobidjan, Inc.

American Committes for Yugoslav Rellef, inc.

American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe

American Council for a Democratic Greece, formeriy known as the
Gresk American Council; Greek American Committee for Wa-
tional Unity :

American Council on Sovist Relations

American National Socialist League

American National Socialist Party

American Nationalist Party

American Patriots, Inc.

American Peace Crusade

American Peace Mobilization

American Poles for Peace

American Polish Labor Council

American Polish League

American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United American
Spanish Aid Committee)

American-Russian Fraternal Society

American Russian Institute, New York, also known as the Ameri-
can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Gorict
Union

American Russian Institute, Philadelphia

American Russian Institute of San Francisco

American Russian Institute of Goutherm California, Los Angeles

American Slav Congress .

American Women for Peace

American Youth Congress

American Youth for Democracy

Armenian Progressive League of America

Associated Klans of America

Associstion of Georgia Klans

Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutache Vereinigung)

Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi Party

Beitimore Forum

Benjamin Davis Freedom Committes
Bisck Dragon Society

FORM

Boston School for Marxist Gtudies, Boston, Massach
Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committee

Bulgarian American People's 6 Of the
“amerton Leagus United States of

California Emergency Defenze Committee
Californias Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero
Street, Gan Frencisoo,
Carpatho-Russtan People’s Soctaty
Central Council of American Women of Croatian Descent, also
known as Centre! Council of American Croatian Women, Na+
tional Council of Croatian Women
Central Japanese Association (Beikoku Chuo Nipponjin Kat}
Central Japanese Association of Southern California
Central Organization of the German-American Nattonal Allance
(Deuteche-Amerikaniashs Einheltafront)
Cervantes Fraternal Bociety
China Welfare Appeal, Inc.
Chopin Cultural Center
Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges
Citizens Committes af the Upper West Side (New York City)
Citizens Committes to Free Earl Browder ,
Citizens Emergency Defense Conference
Citizens Protective League
Civil Liberties Bponsoring Committee of Pitteburgh
Civil Righta Congress and its affiliated organizations. including:
Civil Rights Congress for Texas
Veterans Agsinst Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of
New York
Civil Rights Congress for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians
Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
(See Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles)
Committes for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy
Committee for Constitutional and Political Freedom
Committee for Nationalist Action
Committees for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six
Committee for the Negro in the Arts
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Commuttes for World Youth Friendabip and Culture! Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
(See Congress Agsinst Discrimination; Maryland Congress
Against Discrimination; Provisions! Committees to Abolish
Discriminstion im the State of Maryland)

| Commnittes to Ald the Fighting South

Committee to Defend Marie Richardsom

Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's
Political Prisoners .

Committes to Uphold the Bill of Righta

Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas

Communist Party, U. 8. A. ita subdivisions, subsidiaries, and
affiliates

 

FORM 444d us Previous EDITIONS ~l- (4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 
 
 

os.

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (since 1935)

Negro Labor, Victary Committes

New Committee for Publications

Nichibel Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fujit Theatre)
North American Committee to Ald 8)

Northwest Japanese Association

Ohio School of Social Bclences

Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners

Oklahoma League for Political Education (see Communist Politi.
cal Association)

Original Southern Elana, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Woeshington

Palo Alto Peace Club

Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating im the Canal Zone)

Peace Information Center

Peace Movement of Ethiopia

People’s Drama, Inc,

People’s Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Commu.
nist Political Association)

People's Educational Ascociation (incorporated under name Los
Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), aleo known as People’s
Educational Center, People's University, Peopie'e Bchoal

Peopie’s Institute of Applied Religion

Poopies Programs (Beattie, Washington)

People’s Radio Foundation, Ine, >

People’s Rights Party

Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights

Philadelphie School of Social Science and Art

Photo League (New York City)

Pittsburgh Arts Chup

Political Prisoners’ Welfare Committes

Polonia Soctety of the WO ’

Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive Ger-
man-Americans of Chicago

Proletarian Party of America

(See Committes to Abolish Discrimination tn Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLO)
(Bee Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Puertorriquenca Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace

Revolutionary Workers League
Romanian-American Fraternal Society
Russian American Society, Inc.

Sakura Kai (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association — composed
of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusetts

    
  

 
  
 
     
 
      
 
  

 

Shinto Temples (limited to ste: Shs
Silver Shirt Legion of America te te
Slavic Council of Southern, California .
Slovak Workers Society .
Slovenian-American National .

 
 
 
       
 
 
    
  

Sokoku Kal (Fatherland Society
Southern Negro Youth Goneren

   
      
     
    
     
 

(See Trade Unionista for Pesce)
‘Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council

   
     

Ukrainian-American Fraternal Union
Union of American Croatians
Union of New York Veterans

            
 
    
     
     
    

United May Day Committee
United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

  

  
  
 

Veterans Against Discrimination af Civil Rights of New
York (see Civil Rights Congress) Congress

Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade

Virginia League for People’s Education (see Communist Political
Association)

Voice of Freedom Committes

   
     
      
       
 
 

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association

‘Washington Committee for Democratio Action

Washington Committes to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation

Washington Pension Union

Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation

Workers Alliance (since April 1838)”

   
   
         
    
      
     

YViddisher Kultur Farband
‘Young Communist League
Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.

   

 

 
 

CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above Usted organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and belfef, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, received liter-
ature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization Usted above, or any
organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted
below.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, con-
tributed to, recelved literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended-meetings of any such organiza-
tions, except as noted below. an

INSTRUCTIONS .

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term “close rela-
Hoe” will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts. “Close relatives” of the spouse, for
this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under.Remarks aff pertinent information concern-
ing the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the
names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dates
of contributions, nature of petitions signed falling within the meaning of the above certification and circumstances
thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received. :

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known to you or available from
your own records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions.

See
REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse | REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee

 

 

 

te ff Date
iad, j [967 ? G67
Signature of Spouse < Signdtire of Applicant or Employee
LY | ia

.

 

pl Bestel Chaat cp ae Faw. S44 ae

tha hb ELI

Address 3 aig and ‘ Stats ie,

  
   

 

 

 

 
