 

22,

pss seis eid ine en ASP ai ake arent AS
Sm ataabietise cette aS

 

worked up on the fssue and will not be content until he has a
satisfactory expimation. Now, he says, ho is confr-nted vith the
delay in the air drop to the poonle in the Escanbrays, "Do you think
someone vanta these men wiped cut for scms reagon or other and

that this is vhy these unacceptable coniitions are placed at the lest
minute?® Ne was assured nothing sould bs farther froa the truth, but
atill this is a concrete example of bia be!ief that he has not received
the eupport that he haga been lead to believe he will receive,

ERP INTELLIGINCS ORGANIZATION, We disousaed briefly the MRP intol :
group being organized under VISSINGSR's guidanes, Ye pointed out that
little presress had bsen made dua to the fnot that AARQUIN ~ UAYts
designee for the job ~ had so many other. responsibilities that he
could not give this matter hia mndiviied attention, RAY laughed
and said that B'R WIN has beon given no othor res;onsibilities, but
that he hag sought cut other resronaibi ‘ities on his own which are
tine taking. He promised to think ebout thie and was egreéabla to
assigning a “aiirt sleeve" typa of eperater to work with WISSTiGmR
on the nuts and bolts, The nome of Nicolas VIDCZA was suggested
by the undersigned (in prior consultation vith WIESINGER) as « person
of considerable intelligoned and drive and endowed with a willingness
te carry cut orders, Nicvlas, wo is a brother of one of RAY'e :
closest nen, Ignacio MENOOZA. was acceptable to RAY and he asked -
WIESINGER if he could ascertain Nicolas' present whereabouts so
that he could be propositioned on the subject.

‘

The meating broke up after ten of clesk, I¢ was cordial throughout

and I feel cleared the air a little although 4t settled no matters of '
consequence, I told RAY I waa going to Washington oti Fanday and,

efter consultstiona, might wish to seo him again, He said he would

Welcome another got-together and that I sould reach him through

CHIBAS during the current wek,

 
 

8..

 

 

of approsc'ing likely candidates, He said nore would be dona in
owning wooks,’ T asked if this ves to be a RP stow - or whethor

the le-ders of the FW and other Cuban olenents would ba consulted,

He indicated that this was the plan - that ganera) agroxtont would

be sought - axi that all groups would be free to sugrest candidates,
However, he felt it was quite possible. for oxampie, that the Fad
could sugress candidates wo vould not meet the atrist standards

thet would be, g3¢ and would have to bs rejected. He wes not cloar

ao to vho would exercise this power of veto - but I gather that he felt
that the ¥RP wileh represents or will represent (in his nind) the
party which cowsanis the greatest raspect within the country, would
exercise this prerogative. As 1 say, ho waa a little fuszy on this
point - he ney not have wished to tip his hand. or he may have felt that,
it was a little presatios for hin to discuss this nattor at groater

length.

CCNSTITUTION OF 3940, I said to RAY. "I understand you do not want

to retain the Toasthtution of 1940," He eiled at this. He said

this question has been put to hin befors. Often belliperently, .
However, he said, each tine that he has explained why he foels that
the Constitution must be revritten ta has ended up convineing the
person in question that cortain faaturas of the Constitution of 1940
are either workable, unde sesratie or obsolete. He said fow of the
people who gat vorked up over the Constitution have over read the
Constitutian ssi therefore do not Imow what they are talking about,

Ke said the Constitution is not 1ike the American Constitution

which seta out its rrecepts in general torns and ecvers basic
queations of goverment. The Cuban’ constitution is a long, rexbling
doquvent that cften goes into minute detaits of rules and regulations
which have no plaee in the basic Jaw of the lend. First he said. he
wanted to make it absolutely clear that he "loves" thoge provisions
of the Constitution which guarantee individual liberties, private
property. ete, Eovever, there ara other parts of the Constitution
which sre inpracticable, With respect to Agrarian Reform. he pointed
out, the Constitution reyiires immediate payrent. jn “gash, Hé said

dn no country of the world hag on agrarian rogram been carried out :
with irmedfate oash payments. Not only does tha governnzent not have the
monsy to carry cut such a rrogram, but if. it- Ma-it would result in
inflation and a sarious dislocation of the’ eccnony,: Tha electoral
lave, he said, are very complex and those raleting to-apportionment
of the Congress can -nly result in corruption, I remarked: "You
mean thoy are writtea in such a vay thet they invite corruption?

He sald: Fore than that, they force corruption," Ne said under the
present ast-up ove *as to either be a millionaire or be able to borrow

200,000 paso (and thus accept oormitmonts) in order to be elected to
eongress, Ne said te would like to see this part of the Constitution
written along the American lines, Also, he eaid the lave relating to
the raising of rewenus ere arvhoio, Ne eaid that in order to ac wire
money for a given vrecran, a spocifle tac zust bs applied designed

corte
< Sy aS
 

.

a

 

me, To
be

to provide that money. He said thet what is needed are fever taxea,
but sore general taxes which will provide the revenue neaded without
the necossity of a hodge-podge of tax bit1s, He said that Felipe
Pazos, Rufo Lopes Fresiwet, end other experienesd finance nen agree
that this part of the Constitution must bs revised. I said: "shy not
esend the Constitution rather than rewrite iti* !e replied that this
was a possibility, but that it would be core practicable to write a
workable Constitution providing al] the guarantees of a dexocracy

but oniting a lot of the irrelevant ani uvorkable features of the

eurrent one,

HIS FERS NAT PIANS, I said I understood that he vas planving to rotura
to Cube and asked if this “as correct, He said he and others of bis ~
group plan to return at the appropriate time but first ha vanted to be
sure that he had nailed dow certain political and support matters here,
He said he was hopeful that the "political™ oonsiderations - which he ~
indicated (without olerification) wers going quite satisfactorily =
would be satisfactorily conaluied in "two weeks or so." WIESINGER -

" askeds "Do you rean after 20 Jamucry?" AY emiled but made no reply..

Sle said that he hed hoped that ho had settled the matter of the logistical
suprort when be talked to Kr. B last, but it now appears that it le

not settled end that they nay have to return to Cuba without this
support. He eaid ho was leaving for New York on 9 January and would
renain there until Saturday, 15 January, He said he could be renched
through Raul CHIBAS, I told him that I thought he sould return, as
goon &s he could, and that wo wore prepared to assist hin in every way
possible, ineluding providing him with a camamioator He said we had
alroaty trained a com-unicator for his group who had been infiltrated
inte Cube and he wcndered viere that man vas at the present tine =
whether in Huvana or the hills. Neither I noy WIESINGER could enlirhten
hin on this point, exoapt to asy that he was safely in Cuba.

During the entire interview. with no exception, RAY wan hide usual
yulet, soft-spoken eclf, Fovevor, he it sow ecotion when, he agted ne.
if I thougrt svesone wae trying to sabotace his efforts te anipply the
rogistanca groups in Cuba. For example, he first brought up ani it
wes ost obvious that it ig a catter of great ecnesrn—te his. the
matter of the plans, maps. ete., for the INP action arainst the Isle of
Pines. We said a carefully coorlinated plan hed beonjaid on. That 7
BARQUIN discussed it with * w= Anany « 8 That BAR WIN asked, "Jiomy" if, the
map und other papers could be delimsred in Cuba within 43 hours,
“Jimmy” assured DARQUIN that they could and B.RVIN handed them over.
RAY seadd that DARWIN erred in doing this as they had there ow
fagilities for transnitting the rapers, The payers never arrived st
thelr destination, nor have thoy aver boon heard free opain, Asa
cones yusnes. a plan of great inc rtanea hai to be abantoned, and an
irreplaceable opportunity lost. Le vas oxtranely agitated uren he
talked of this matter ani although WIEN i3 ani I attempted to

aaoure hin that Se was .at be'ng sabotared ani thet there vere no

Sous 'yniste" trying to frustrate tia cotivities, ha nenetieless is
 

4

Se

ee ene nat terannnth > Lene

ne ee reece +

 

2.

,

HIS TRIy TO SAN SOAR, He made only passing references to his trip
to Fuerte Rico, Ue rentionsd that he had a very “ins talk with

 

” Gov. 11210% Marin-for wham he expressed preat admiration, Several

tines during the evening's session be indjected thst he vould likes

to ese the future Cuba follow tho path of uerto Aleo end vest
Germany in its seonanic davolo;zent., “a also seid that he had
oonforrod with ex-Preaident of Coata Rica. Dr, Jose FIGUZUAS, vhonm

he fowvl very pracecucied with zasrect to future developrents in
Lutin Americas the influonos whieh CAS°RO st411 exerts on the

minds of great numbers of people. RAY commented that vhile almost all
of the governrant now see C’SMo for what he is. a cynical dictator,
there are nony. rany people who still view hin as a poruler losder
who 4a trying to help his people, lush more in tho proparenda line
ig neceasary be said to present GLSTtC to the poople in a truer light.
in this connection he said that the ! ir horas within the next thrac
weeks or so to aoyire bronicsaoting facilitios in Costa Rica,
Venosusla, and perhaps acquire a ship from wich proparanda could

be disseminated,

ATPITUD: RAY feole that the Prente has little

to offer the people of Cube for the future. For oxamrle. he seid,
there 16 great discontent in the Cuban Rebs] Arwy ubich could be
exploited 1f these diasident olenents could haw» sous assurances that
they were laying down their lives for « worthwhile cause, AY

does not feel that the action ani composition of the PRD ins) ires .
auch confidence. He did not menticn any names epocifically arong

the FRD wich would represent a "return to the past" but he Jid

sey that ono of the Executive Fembora (head of a department, I

believe is how he put it) had been a big time contrecter during
RATISTA's regime and that when RAY took over the Ministry of rublic
Worka under President URRUTIA, he learned that this sams contractor
had previously presented a bill and oollected 300,000 pasos for a
public aorks project which was never wilortaken, Instead of having the
man jailed, RAY said that he ae !'inister of Public Works merely
ineisted that the job ba dons, Ile commented that he (RAT) would

now probably "have to pay for this." J presure he neant that this ~
particular porson will eventually soek sone typalof persens] revenge,
RAY also said that “one-of tho five’ manbers of the FH) confided to
him that he ie not happy but there is little he oan do about it bocauss.
"he is there.” RAY repeated som of the usiml- critictms of the PRD.
“high living.* petty polities, "“ewryboly receiving a salary." end the
“obvious ‘frot” that the 0,S, Goverment is picking up the tab, Trig
he said wag fine vith the ‘2h beoauss it vas cousing Jialtustoned
Cubans within ani vithout Cuba to turn to the ‘RP as the only hope.

He vaa yulte frank in at ting that while be ig willing to “eocperate”
with tho Franta, he di not vant the 1 2P te bacon Identified in the
Cuban nind with the Frente. and thus itself bee me discrelited through

“assoclation," \

 

'

Sti

- meee Stuests Slae ses lS BOC A mee
i nag aR Et RAE SASS a cet
 

[0g 10179-40444}

Tora e oe maman a qa remem Samere Aaah at Ais UMRAO MM Na neem RinL wise © ne: aihasiien SaainG aS ecss cc at vanionttadice sce

KEXORANDUN OF COVTINSATICN . 4
ww («tl
SUB SOT a Moating with or, Fanvel "Menolo* RAT
a
1. Prior te departing from Washington os Lyanuary 1961, I vas

3.

instruete: by Srsey Barnes to contark ox, RAY in MSemni, I uns
instructed te assure RAYs ee)

A, That ®e® ‘perscnally held +m in high regord and
thet while “ve" are not bseting any Individual or
gecep in the political aense. wo do have sympathy
with tis program and hig eins.

B, Thst "ve" are prepared to resler him vhaotever material
aesiztance he neods eni os Ssasibly uss. That while
the avchenian of the Frante vould heave to bo used for
tha ielivery of such materisis, aines no ther mechanisa

° fer this purpose prosentiy exists, this did not mean
_ thet Or. RAY need be behoides to the Frente.

C, het we unlerstood 1a is pleasing to return to Cuba.
We feel that this would be « wise nove, and
omenquently urge him to do sq In this connection
wa sre prepared to offer his a cormumisator and other
giuiiar assistenco so thet be can maintain contact
vith hie people,

I had planned to eee RAY on his rescre from Pusrto Rico on

the afternosa of 3 January 1961, bet <he inmninency of a break of
diploratie reletiona between the United States an] Cuba compelled
we to return to Havana on the rorning of 3 Jenuery 1941.
Consequently. ry meeting with RAT was postponed mitil last evening
vhen an anpeistount was made through -“SSINGER to poat, with hin
at the latter’s apartasnt.

Ow resting Tested aprroxinately three hours - roughly from 7 te 10 Poe
We covere! a vide range of subjects, se highlighte of vhioh I
aball try te cower in succooding paragraphs,

ry

 
 

 

5e

-3- 4

PROMS 7S 5tis NOS, when Iteld RAY that ve were crepared to
provide hin material support ant thet wile much of thie caterial
support would have to be delivered by the Frente xeshaniss this woold
not neceaserily nake hin beholden or ;'aos hin under oblirstion to

the Fronte, he actied ani said that this is what i say. but this is not
the way it works. Thinking ha was referring to sore inoident in

the past, ond not the imeediate prosent, I said that I was sure he
would now find thet this ty how it works. Ne then told me thet he

hed been negotiating for an air drop to a croup in the Escarbrays,
that Mer, 8, hal oome dow amd he thonght their difforsnees hal been
pretty much resolved, and Mr, 5, hed toki Mr, }EV5u0 that there

had been oa moating of minis, at cetera, and with everything all set
for the drop, he ie - at the slevent’ hour (he said "three days ago‘)
tald that the eras nust bear the sticker of the Frente, otherwise

"no arms.” He said that this vas absolutely macceptabje to hir.

He said he did not insist or particularly ask that the orms be
identified with ““RP* stickers, so therefore he could not see any
justification for ingisting that the. arna bear the FRD lubel. Ke

said that his sroup has done ell the operational -plamting for the drop,

‘ eourlers have gone back and forth between Eavana and the Eseacbrars,

maps have been drawn up, DZ's have been errenged. and now he is

told that the equipment which ha had been told vas haing supp’ ied

to his rroup must bear the labs! of the rival "F2D," It is obvious
that while we say that va look uren the Frente as a non-political
grouping of various opposities croups, RAY looke uyon the Frente as

the political cerganization of Tong ViRCNA ani I personally do not

fae! canguine that any amount of explsaation will change his

thinking in this regard. Here. sad eleevhers during our conversat’on,
I noted a osrtain aout of intrenaigence ani lack of toleranes on

the part of RAY which does sot bode well for the future, unless he

can be made to realize that his group and following are not the sole
repository of wirtus. honesty. ecmpetence ani -oal intentions, RAY

is an idealist. He dremms of a Jenoorctic Cuba, free of corruption,
ruled by -en who are selflessiy Jedie-ted to the promotion of the
gomeral welfare. When I ssid to RAY that Tony ViARCNA and other

leaders of the FRD would say that they too stand for thasa things. he
agein eniled and said: “The curious thing ie that they Jo nob ecme

out and say uequivocally that they stavi for these things.

Instead they say we aro Cubans - we sre not Englishmen, we are not
Americans, ve are not Germeng - ve are Cubang.* ‘What: they rean to. say,
he went on is that selfis'ness, scce corruption. ot cotera, is part

of the Cuban nak up and that this being the aso it is unrealistic

and inpractical to think that Cucens oan davire to a jemoaracy :
based on integrity and Macal honasty auch as ve have in the United :
States. or England. or other -ore civancad de-oer'eies of Vestern nan
Surope, He feels that the peovle af Cuba yearn for such a decocraay
ani they Jo not sas the ohanes cf fulfil izent In the composition of

tha Frente, Therefore he wishes to scbody in the 'RP those mon whose

  

 
 

ce ee en cence

7.

ai ie BR soma ana Sa air

erecta Satin ike ee BCL eA Rati 5 sa tmnt ET AS

a

reputations sre clean - he kept referring to Felipe Fazos, as an
example - ani thua told out to the Cubans tn Cuba a hope of better

days to come ~ and to provile them = cause for which to fight.

Without a will to fight on the part of tho peovle cf Cuba, he said,
CAS"RO will newer be overtirow. Tho will to figtt dooa not exist

on the scale that is needed to achieve eucosss. Tho Frenta is
completaly inespable of providing the inspiration from which such

a will can etem. Consequentely, it ia un to the }°P to inspire the
eonfidencs of the people by bringing together thoge peraons and elezenta
whom the people trust and who ere not identified with the corrupt

past. The psople of Cuba, he said, camet atand another disappol tment,
Theix hopes must not be raised again, only to suffer another betrayal.

PROVISIONAL GOVERIGENT, I broucht up the subject of.a provisional
fovermant. & government in exile, but prefaced ny remarks by saying
thet I was only expressing my personal views I saidt "Don't you

feel that the problem of whose sticker goeg cn *he air drops, and vho
gets credit for this or that, vould te resolved if en Assembly of
Opposition Groups were to nest and to dexocratically sleet a provisional
goverment, composed of honest, competent man of uinpeachable record,
which vould represant, al] the diverse oppoaition groups and which would

. raise the hopea ant proviae the vill to fight to the Cubans in Cuba

who are uncertain and confused with reamet to the future?*

He said he was opposed to a coalition roverment rade up of representatives
of verioug political parties as a provisionr? governnent because he

was sure such a governvent would not be able to provide the united, .
honest, non-partisan type of lesdera!ip which will be required following.
the fall of C:STRO, He would prefer a gevernzent of "integration"
rather than a government of “coalition.” | By that he safd he meant

thet the best qualified men would be asked to asrve their coumtry in

an apolitical capacity. That these nen would be measured by their
experiences, co:petence, reputation, ete,, and little or no concern
ghould be given an to their poitioal affiliations, A goverment
composed of much ren would quickly win the respect of the Cuban Porulations.
these men could get on with ‘the job of rc -natructing the country,
eonpletely subcrdinsting partisan politieal eonsiderations, since

such men would not be po’itically: ambitious, . Moreover, a governnent —
Gampoasd of auch, outstanding sen would win’ the oonfidenos of foreign
countries which would be nore disrosed to grant loans whigh wih) be an
urgent negessity fram the very start, So far as-the sovsroment itself
4s canoorned, it would be apol‘tical, The various politied) partic

and their ‘ealers vould bs froe to rrerare for the. coring elections ~
whether they ba in 6, ‘2 or 13 venths at which tine the Cuban People

in free olections could decide which po'itioal party it vented’ ‘to,

govern the country.

I asked RAY who would select these mon And at whet jumeoture of the
etrugrie against CAS°RO wuld a provisional rovernmse:t arpear, He we
@ little fussy - probably intontionaliy - on this soint. He clearly
indiented that some work bal alraaiy been neconrlisked on the matter |

 
