 

 

 

"_REDSKIN agent can
- . spotter netio
2

by Dr. during the latter half of February.

$Rn/10-~-61-0066 cont.

Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment
of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

b. To restrict revelation of SR Division safe apart— |
ments, staff employees and general taska germane to REDSZIN
operations only to those candidates most Likely to be

accepted. for recruitment.

c. To cut down on the necessity of processing provisional
Operational Approvals on all leads to be contacted for initial |
screening, thereby reducing the heavy workload now impo

38
on the Office of Security and the CX Staff by SR/10. 4 be!

4. Basic Proposal: : _

a, To send staff psychologists of the A&E Staff, OTR, |

to conduct field aggossmontss when feasible, of, potential | :
dates, based on leads furnished by’SR/10's - 1

vi.’ The staff. psychologists wi, peresentincs . |

   
     
  

es or consultants off EY
a well established *propridtiry of

  

 

—TSD, commuching iiterviews on hehalf of anonymods \put actual
clients in he fields of education, industry, Aommerce and
governmeny (Roth federal and state). . Other established

   
  

proprietary ckver can be provided if and when appropriate,
The proprietary organizations can provide full “backstogping™
throughout every normal working day. Appropriate documsata- .
tion is to be provided in true name or alias, whichever is”
appropriate in any particular case. : ee :

b.. As a test run, twelve potential REDSKIN agent
candidates in the New England area have been selected for
initial contact and assessment by Dr. Joha Golder &3 soon
as this proposal has been concurred in and approved, Candi-
dates in the Hidvest are tentatively scheduled for sereening

c. These_agent candidates recommended ag likely prospects
by the staf? psychologists will then be contacted by S#7I0 —~
case drricers, when P Provisional Operational Approvals have

been granted, Gho will ascertain willingwess“and availability j4
z travel in the USSR on intelligence missions. then ° fi
response is affirmative each candidate will be invited to
Washington for full Headquarters assessment and possible

recruitment.

|
|
 

(tostotan-037e

 

out during the initial interview or subsequently as a result of

SR/10-61-0066

 

3 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Group

ATTENTION ¢ kr. Thomas Strange

SUBJECT 2 Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment
of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

1. A meeting was held 1 February 1961, to discuss the
feasability of conducting field assessment of potential REDSKIN

agent candidates by staff psychologists of, the Assessment and

 

Evaluation Staff, OTR, under suitable cover. | ; :
Conferees were Messeurs Thomas Strange and pf Central
Cover Group, John Gittinger of TSD, Dr? and’ Pr. John |

Golder of the A&E Staff, OTR, and Fielder Dudley of SR/10. The
problem discussed in para 2 below was recognized and tentative '
agreement reached on the basic proposal discussed in para 3 ; :
below. . . co. . |
2. Heretofore field assessments have been conducted by- |
SR/10 case officers whose capabilities in the rather esoteric '
science of psychological assessment are, at best, baged funda- i
mentally on intuition and subject to variable degrees. of objec-
tivity. Furthermore these case officers reveal their Agency.
connection on initial contact supported by credentials _in alias.
This ail agent audldates screened in the field becone aware of——
Agency interest _to exploit legal travel to the ussa for intelligence

purposes, These include a considerable percentage who are acreensed |
Headquarters assessment, .
3. The Probles:

a. To sereen out unsuitable REDSZIN agent candidates
without revealing Agency interest and to reduce possibilities
of irrational reaction, i.e., going to the Press or writing’ i
letters to the President when later approached by an Agency |
representative proposing 2a intelligence mission. |

 
 

sas!

  

SR/10-61~-0066: cont.

SUBJECT: Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment
of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

5. Earliest consideration of this proposal is requested
so that the time consumming screening and processing of suitable
REDSKIN agents can be accomplished in time for utilization during
the 1961 travel season. a :

6. Any questions concerning this proposal should be directed
to Fielder Dudley, 58/10, extension 8297. : -

 

   

 
   

 

» SR Div sion
