 

 

 

4

Tae

 

$

i

—

ey

SS

GIOLELLERTA ROMANA

$0 CAVALIERT HILTON: ROMA Yiatlas Cahectivrves
TEL. 344556 A wasagpteaee
arcmin ae a

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

Spl

 

- in Rome three weeks of every month to manage the store until =e

a satisfactory, resident manager can be found to take over.
Should Rome wish to take advantage of A/l's offer, he could

be readily used to provide an introduction to Ventura. Only

a -keneral discussion of the ops possibilities for A/i‘s store
were discussed with him at the meeting. He was told that ag
Rome was interested in discussing the idea further with hin,a
representative would initiate the contact. This person ‘will
speak English initially and will identify himself as ‘a “friend
of Bill Thompson's" and refer to this instant meeting in New
York on 31 May. A/1 can be reached at the following places,

in ofder of preference:

c/o Cavalieri-Hilton Jewelry Shop
via Michelino Tossi
Rome

c/o Dr. A. Romano
via Ciccerone 44
Rome

c/o Corletto, SRL
Milan

4. A/l advised the writer that he would be stopping off
in Paris during this trip in order to get his passport renewed
at the Cuban Consulate in Paris. His contact there is{ Luis E. yy
TRASANCOS) A/1 has state viously (namely at the 28 March
63 meeting) that he rei a good man, probably willing to
assist the USG, but entirely too outapocen about his dislicses
for certain aspects of the resent Regime. A/1 assed whether
we wanted him to sound oue(ey and stated that in any case he
was going to tell the man to watch hig. tongue in his dealings
with the others in the Embassy. Sinc® (Tis already of interest
to the Paris Station, A/L was told that we had no interest ia
the man at this time, but that we would be interested in hearing :
any comments about the meeting when be returned, ({t is noted :
also that A/i said that it was throug SANCOS) that he was
procuring a watch for Jose VENEGAS, Cuban representative to the

Tus in Prague.
5. A/l reported that he had received two postcards from
VENEGAS in Europe, and as a@ result, A/l wondered just what

VENEGAS was interested in. {It is recalled that AMLAS!H had
warned A’l last summer to be very careful of VENEGAS, as he was

Seni Ld
 

 

104-10483-(0042t ;

.

 

 

Background TO CIA .
- eepany round Use O:
SEC RET Do Not Reproduce”

 

4 June 1963 ~

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMWHIP/1 Meeting, New York City, 31 May 1963

1. Meeting Time/Place: Subject was contacted by telephone

on 27 May 1983 and a meeting arranged for 31 May in New York

City. Upon: arrival in New York City, the undersigned called

H AMWHIP at his. office and & meeting was set up for 1400 at the

‘ Forun restaurant. Visceviaay Melouent cle, CUA fy bee BF,
Bardea ra fagcdta pat lee Cente +

2. Purpose of Meeting: The meeting was scheduled prior to

A/l's trip to ome and the Continent for the purpose of arranging
contact with the Rome Station for the purpose of exploring the
possible operational utilization of A/l's jewelry store which he
wag opening in the new Cavalieri-Hilton Hotel in Rome, and for
discussing additional means for recontacting the reluctant
AMLASH/1 in Havana.

3. Operational Interest: As io the past, A/1 was most
generous and cooperative tn his attitude towards collaboration
with KUBARK. He offered to make available both the facilities
of his new jewelry gtore in Rome and of the jewelry firm of
Corletto, Inc., of Milan, for any reasonable use to which ‘UBARC
might wish to employ them, i. @., as letter drops, cover addresses,
or to provide cover for a XUBAR< ageot operating in Italy or
Europe. A/1 recomended that the jewelry store be considered
before Corletto, however, because he has more control over the
store than the manufacturing firm, (it is noted that we adhered
to this advice in cabling Rome of A/i'ga impending arrival....-8€e
DIR y. A/1 also stated that his partner in the store is
Juan VENTURA Valner (Walner), born JO April 1914 at San Jose, .
Costa Rica, and now a naturalized Cuban citizens, residing in *
Geneva (45 Avenue Wendt, tel. 34$732). Ventura, who was formerly
a source of the Air Force Attache in Havana prior to Jan 1961,
is highly recommended by A/1 an @ BAN of discretion and intelli-
gence, who 18 anti-Regime and ia etili vory interested indoing
what he can outside the teland to aid the USG against Castro.
Ventura, who ia & jewelor and gem dealer by profession, will be

tre ttien
oh a Ree getpege ef
& . oF

SeCLET in
 

 

Ain

 

 

“SRT 6 =

3

 
 
  

& strong regime supporter and Communist, who definitely w:
not to be trusted with the time of day. A/1 will report on
any tnfo he devélops on VENEGAS and his activities. -A’1-also:
stated that he feels VENEGAS has “extraordinary influence with
the regime, and apparently travels throughout Europe far. too
~much not to be involved. in some "special" business for the

Regime.

. 6. A/l reported that Wilfredo VENTURA Medico y Su.;.,
born ca 1933 is a close, friend of Fauvre CHOMON, brother of .
the diplowat/and’ presently Minister of Communications in Havana,
VENTURA is approachable, according to A/1, if done by a com-

“—petent and secure person. We éould be used to elicit info

 
 

: present

from. his friend CHOMON. VENTURA’s wife is presently. residing
in Miami. A/1 volunteered the use of his name in any contact,

., 1£ this was deemed advisable by us.

Gose ACEF Yara} ca 33 years old, who is in the municipal
‘Government of Havana, his exact position is at present unknown
to A/1. He is of moorish descent. A/1 checking.

38 years old, is at
sell % tie
ime sO! as been

O67. Maras friend who is trusted explicitly by A/l is

  
  
 

8.

was a phys ed instructor in Batidta's t

“used as a cut-out in the past for letters fro G~AMLASH/1.

He has not used this channel Since, the October crisis.

3]
9. a born Paris, Fran :
on (May Z; or esent residential address is(pua

Gereoe Ribeiro 135, Apt. 702, Copacabana,) Rio de Janeiro, tel.
6-5053) According to A/1, he is currently selling steel for

Ww &
: .
“X industries for M. Navigacao e Comercio Motonave S Rio ol

Branco 81, Rio de Janeiro, Prior to leaving Cuba
engaged in acupuncture work in Havana. According |
should be able to be utilized in Rio as he has wide conta

within the Cuban community in that city. Subject lived for six
years in Cuba prior to going to Brazil. Is divorced and nas son
living in Paris, (This lead. has already been mede available to

the Field for consideration.)
10. AMLASH Re-Contact Attempt: As requested at the 28

March 63 meée¢ fed that he had written a letter to
his cousin, Snclosing a card for AMLASII/1, which
included th ‘a girl friend, Maria Dolores, in

Madrid (the accommodation address) assigned L before he returned

sot be
74-0000

SECRET +

4

 

met - to Cuba last September) was very anxious to hear from him. At .
this writing, A/1 stated that he had not heard from his cousin .
as to whether he had been able to get this card to LASH. In

ny ° erder to increase the chance that a message would reach LASH,
A/1 was instructed to write from Europe during his present trip
there, directly to LASH's mother in Havana, and enclose a letter
to LASH. ‘This message was to include the fact (in appropriate
cover terms) that Maria Dolores was etill inquiring about LASH
and ‘really desired to hear from hin. Also A/l was to inquire

‘whether LASH: intended to visit outside Cuba in the foreseeable

future, and if so, perhaps he and Af could get together. Letter
to LASH's mother is to be mailed soonest from Europe. Will
report upon return to New York, :

“1,., 4M A/i's address in Paris will be that of the same hotel
he used during the operation with AMLASH last August, Hotel
Franklin, 19 Rue Butfault, Paris, He is well cnown there and
uses it whenever he is in Paris.

   

12. The meeting lasted one hour and twenty minutes. There
were no incidents of a security nature.

\/pv
