 

. Py a sont ~.
. wba

3. It appeared the silencer would be a unit
that would include both the silencer per ae,
and a rifle barrel (this would fit a
standard FAL automatic rifle - light barrel
model} modified to reduce the muggle velocity
of the standard FAL round to less than the
Speed of sound, thus eliminating the sonic

3. This project, if successful, will provide a
Silencer that can be used on any standard
VAL automatic rifle (light barrel). It will
continue to fire a standard FAL round vith a
Silencing effect that would eliminate to the
barest minimum, both the noise from the
explosion of firing the bullet, and the noise
created by a bullets muzzle velocity that ig
Greater than the speed of sound,

C. W. Hicks
. C/WH/88/MOB/PE

 

eat meen beta Maen pr nen te A te AE here Scum Mnedteeten cieceqcetet tech nee aeons penne meant napus cnn *

 
 

104-40216-10198

Kas,

 

wae oro

Sie ener REN hee Sete RETIN, OS

RRR rats Soke teanenaen Eo cays OSE Lets eR FT ch ei ue Deere tens Stig inert Or RRO a

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
SUBJECT t

REFERENCE: 3

i. On 5S May 1064 Mr.

  

er

}

ad 4
. +
, . ?

3 May 1964 ;

Silencer for the FAL Automatic
Rifle.

5 May 1964 Conversation between
Nestor Sanchez and the undersigned.

 

of T8D was called,

and @ request for FAL silencers was made with the following

specifications:

1, Three were needed on a crash basis.

2. The silencer, if possible, was to be designed
in such @ manner that it could be adapted to
any standard FAL automatic rifle (light barrel)
without modification to the rifle itself,

3. In addition to the above three silencers TSD

was to check the ease and cost of procuring
25 to 50 such silencers,

4. The silencer in addition to limiting the
explosive noise from firing would also have
to eliminate the sonic boom connected vith
the standard FAL round, Furthermore, this would
have to be done through the silencer itself
rather than through a new type ammunition for
the FAL that had a muzzle velocity less than
the speed of sound.

2. & preliminary report was received from TSD the 4
afternoon of 5 May 1964 stating the following:

1, Things looked hopeful, and a detailed prelininary
report would be forwarded to the undersigned
prior to the close of business 8 May 1964.

 

 

 

 

 
