 

 

Ste gyite

be
+
4
f

 

  

if eee

whe

e
Bcjas eeemsS correct tepreecome with thls eresert 3¢ I enpverted Chet be
aight ase voutever icfivenee be boc te iat iuanes weople tShe Chiesa, whos
be Geveribed as Doing decattate de Maw Fork ung <epTeecEes £9 the point af
threstened. raiciie, to break away from the politicse and Join the FR.

 
 

36 Bojas then begen to speak of the tacts éifferences between again
What be enlls tb young revoletionaries, s-ssiag tus original 26theafedaly
’ Rovemrnt people, and the Policiece, suck as Yorans, fanties Arenge, @F AL,
~ whee they refer to as "las Viejos*, Yoo YUE revolutionsries fee] what
With Les Viejos" in power that Cuba will olise sasiurda towurt the olé
political regiuss and that thesa latter are only peying lip service to the
preposition thet the original efme af the reyelution wet g3 forward bes
Titbeot Castro and, of corrsa, withoas aay Cance tt influetcs. Rojas
curioualy referred to these politicos ta ise FD an belg too fer to the
Tigyt. I eeid thet this vivs of them ws ermaletote ann tweee On ake wd ow
| Sel8 S7-mees Keo onsiseP them 16 Bs Liberals covacierably for te the
iadie i onsed tht if these gerpte were acy rord te 107 left, troy wouls
Ye a eoures of serious worty «5 ane UE. Sorecrzent. Rojas chmaged tha

  

. S, Re wanted then to keow {f° 1t woul! ta pocalele for the Us Be
Coverrmnat ¢o lewd ite ceppert to more tu4am 002 ay. when J reapored
that the F. 8. Geremmmeat see not wermeticg s "Mis, Folate just ahtarged.
Be vent 05 tc cay tiy% Lf acepis estas ey > imiriveals sush aa
the military types te id erettioe? Fes ls &a° Garoaps te the Alienea,
for oxmmple, os © thule arganizntion (ameces af > Atvers pitchi}, t214
Chis BOULs Kee omy gran tie services of Mery ve lotbls Sdopla Lm toe fignd
against Castres bet wleht sew the ae:d— of stabiliey for the feters.
Ha pointes oft that if the young rewosiinuclis vio ara aie rejected by. ane
@ tO the antiasstro etraggle,

Yam are stifled in their efforte to ecootriry:
Shey Vill Fegedewat © Uatliean acti-amricas Cum: element for tbe fetars,
stdieh eonls be very ¢eomyiag t> 0. OV /Coben srlatioms. 1 thing there fa a
fair sucext of evdstevce to this srammest sn I tcls cla sa, 2s any case,
Rojas wes gives the runzise wereG. 3. cnvalreryzt in tnese eaLis ercaive. .
\ (vulek, ef course, be doer rot bey) ant ecvice iuet he do woetever ba cen
te vring abet enity se betwen sevarih srasyr. Le was tol# thet the FED
appeared to ue the «woes walea oad the pretest vr atisation em? greatest
epperent potential for seceess, orf trat ell rccerne? would be well ad
Vines to Gttwapt te taue prere 7It3 “4. Aosos saa thes he bag 2 strong
feeling tae uxity os this wasis wes pot presgtvle e& tis tins becanag
tee feeling seorg the yuary sa7coctiomaries wa raniing too Risk ond too
. Swotionnly against the FAD. Ma raid bs thowcot tuese jung revolutionaries
fee} that they hasw teen tutete ues ay sw ic.cce tans POLIZico, and their |
Selenide end rorterts ta the 0.2. Goverrmest have tersed thete tests end

stonicase tiem, Biases of Unis ney are wi XceTing Biticrmess aad dise

 

   

 

     
   
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

5 pas . wast ot 22 zte =
Seoperstim: with the £2. Zsolt his toat tis vos at tnteresting engosetion

but X thoes 4% ws wre pometbic irusmecs a: tia TLS. Covrarmmst, rrile

 

 

 

Nereneratttettipreneennt. eee vente «

 

 

ase annT nr eraeee an ennT Gt rene

|
i
oem] pe So

TERRA FOR Eee EEC
Sumer ‘ pet of Meeting with Sergio Rojas
BRVERINCES / LOHD}-3601 (IN 1TV10), ah Seytenar 1960

     
  
 
  
    
 
   
  
 
    
  
   
  
     
  
  

. le Uhen 1% wae learned here that Rojas es» fntending to go to Kiead
end there te stay with Blesese Varia, 1% was treaset if *weht Be beat to

Y Yemsi eo a9 to semewiat comiticn Ris tbiake

ang before he is exposes to the Tall Blast of .eskeFRs swatimone whieb be

 

 

wae Sita wee ew p vere BugAe AB

. Bow Tork on 26 Septenter, wstng the ineredinla Pecognition parase gives

iu Paregrson § of relerenea, and he agreed to step off iz Vasaiugton on
Poste to Kier 27 Septesber.

Rojas bree car sorverrstion with a lengthy éisecuree
blish @ pietere G? Dawal 2 a cotplete seuthel exong
be ant baizg © wrabar of eny group and
43 & wAsior of ‘ant ip the ecurse of

 

i Pejectas by the FRO. Be te well tequainted \ith tit bictary of tha Mats
s | part in th terotion of re FY2, “Ba Saistad ee.actias of APBD -L te

be Fepresent the MAR, ard wast orateed later t3 crozts (he Slit af tie pan

5 a with the Fm. Ee presertad tae Soaal argumect thas the MAB hed gaze @

F- bed mistake tn Glicvirg JP0DDTo2 to le toele repreeistosive tn tbe Fab,

28d AKBIDIY=4 was Straqiawily cupturad by tre politics and care Linelly

to @ point of Pepresestiag only Lis ay views asi tstereete dn the FAD,

largely toe the exclis'ce of tha 122 interests. (Tada argues, whier sas

' 68 Wall presextes hy Rates os Ive ever beard at, ip eccurcte, 18 ia the

., telked vite @ member of these pecole iu Bew York the cay Before. %s .
' Lesdly lanewted the taet thet @ veuter ef yeicab's wan: m3, particularly.
are Beleg warts ws « retelt af the diftereasas

FS TeVolatie we ive ari roe FD, as ke sam 18,

 

2 told Bin thet x agreed with bin Let Naas 7 troncsd that the salueion
foo there ellitery types was Sivp ie m0 d.e., if tony vol’ presen? thous
Selves as initviduals cffertig “tv'r services vo the FWD et thay vould
be Beceyses and the2> valesnls services Woeis * yey te qeus nee. Examples
.. c\ Sa this esse were Chimsa, Dias Sexe. dive ‘at, ef wl, ifresecmtis, Sajas .
= = % Wes cemplotely anewire ef Bins Dias*e miasinc.$ = sugested ig this coae

Portion that people ef thte Sype wers reing victtetes¢ ty wach pecale ag
- Tals Conte Aawero tho ta support of thely politiesal aspirations are xting
: these ai litay yz {32 Cabpeterping af) political bar gnicing feeder.

 

., 7 RETURN TO CIA~
we Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce _

  
74-0000

sone gi

 

 

 

 

oe

&% saimtains 8 contingoue interest in these affairs und bas occarionsl
eentae? with the several grouse, Lo mot and will act vecser curalved.
Rojas sadd be knows this to be antrne so) de awlicered et the insistence
thas tha BD. 8. Govermaert is wot epoucoring toe 7%. I mee toa vomtere
suggestion te hin that be induse bis fries, 4.5. Comte Ageero an! lerie,
te appreseh the PED again exd attesy om taeir ova to mike sme aocomEod- >
ticn, %s daing so, I engreeted they might core lier obtaining tnd services
ef am olter, wore sophisticated, mature iodiviscal vios they cons trust
&e represent thes in thesa overturcs trq ihv: I sadd I tromgah taat
thy K's diftiealties, for exemy.s, ston Tron poor represetisiume, T
believe theS Rojas imeadiately mmptally cost Limcelf in this role. Oar
discaveions ended et this point.

S$. Re§ae said that be wad plemring to stay 12 Miosl coly | few éaya,
after waleh Wa vould veters to Losdan. Ma sat4 cwrtse™ tant if aa e
yeeult of his wieit here bo teceoe comvinees tact os eoals coutrirste.
snbdotestially to thie Cubes exile sitaation im tc u. 5., oe vault recurs
nerriss, be plens to reefs ik Sureys + 9 fied enplovmer->
secre. Je Mieed be stated be will stay with ia, ‘hone Bev pace cerber

  

res

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
