SECRET

&

Sees Ss

 

S :
12 It > occas that the voice intercept and photographic

KX
ey is not) processed in “real time." The
means eee \ SX he volume of the information precludes anything

coverage was
but repo of items judged by the monitor to be of norgetta
ordi ge therefore, noted in summary logs. Full Gre
selected items require consultation of the tape and ote GM tr Sy
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage 40h Sto Qe
available in quantity lots which requires scanning RS) a
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." RC the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting-of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of

a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on | October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker. said’
he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this inf ormati on reported by the Station to
Headquarters in its fi rst indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The ns did one more thing in its 8 October “a
on Lee- OSWALD 8

data with rings nation it had acquired fron: a 2

na r ee of a male individual, a :
ein “S wy

aneri QS Rrerved entering the Soviet Embas

J) October voice intercepts: it a e

    

es
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a Ar of.{ ident

; SS of SO)
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the KESancs fron

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET “gnretn:

PAGE 1 0

of

15

COPY NO.
74-0000

SECRET

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

 

14. One wie element of background must be stinulee@ Show as

the final prec

of the meee ane ey" individual placed in the ee X®
S y)

on 23 Ker we by FBI Agent Bardwell OI Wet @YY

ON YOM o0! s coverage of OSWALD! <n : Avon the after-

no OS when all available coverage had

EX of
The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

to understanding the relevance (or Gres

  

Le

 

beet. ked?

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.

 

Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the .
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Sty nion, and he wants to know with whom h SS
talking there EO ge she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to % yore

Embassy OLS 2m» accepted him and gave him Ong x
ay ould also give him a visa wee urt WN

the aSin®
pa So : ey vising Immigration in Cuba. o>

SS) ES
IW. war know with whom he had talked RO says
,

he was told there would be no problem. The man in thesSoviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET
ORCA SG

psoz 1 Ll ce meee

COPY NO. nd
SECRET

10. At no iris his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of NS reful review of all coverage, voice Qo,
as well 8 Sot KC" both the Soviet and Cuban epee as

By "1S on 22 and 23 November 1963 org Or
«

    

ay “Ow” oO materials from August 1963. oF thek a
that the SYSs no CIA photo coverage of mrs xe ing his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, Vad made a

cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station see no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it’ receive one from Headquarters~-which did not

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

,

li. byvitg Eis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-

cept--which. had. ae te Headquarters and disseminated to the sms

interested mae intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy RNS

of intere SS ent of State)~-turned up matches SS
. content&y ease) intercepted on 27 and 28 Ptr Xe
ee

natch sre nee to Headquarters on 23 rovente IE

based on voice comparison (except for what could a
Sp
monitor--and this was not an insignificant Se asa
d not b

memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) coul SSS cous the

the Delimitations Agreement. SC ally

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had S erased and re-used. .

SECRET

PAGE 3 of 1D,

COPY NO.

 

”
on

’ gation." None of t,

SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m..2 October 1963. His place of residence a
small commercial waQis te, not frequented by "erinanse@Q

    
 

Hotel Commerci AA ES registered under alias.
detai led sem Nia rrogation by the Mexic

the ae Rye SxS ination, established ee aS ction of
all & he left early and returned Ge of his stay.

- 8. Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and early

 

departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the
entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

agent) coverage ‘either unilateral or from Mexican Taison.

  
 
  

9. It should be WS that OSWALD was in no sense "under investi-
s of his defection and stay in the x sy

9 £2962. were known to Mexico Stati: OP
an bare bones of his esting

WS)

return to the U

before 10 0c WS

forwarde J@adqus

 
    

8 Octo’ i
a contact by
was indicated and deduced from technically acqui red information on
1 ‘October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.

S

SECRET :
OOF 2152 .

8

PAGE

Y aot i ‘ 2 Yt0 be
anNAnerican for a visa to Cuba int ee USSR. This

 

75

OF earcxos

COPY NO.
SECRET

sensitive inte MS operation being conducted in October 1963 by the
CIA and \ Oy authorities) against the Soviet and Cuban

“ar SS
OW

gs on extraordinary press of effort tod isin a on

wy GH and the assassination, copies ‘of Cone

made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief Sai fF

22 November to the local FBI representativaQey wa & SSP aay,
asserted ly on the decision of the a cop were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to _

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD Se

oe

evening of 23 Noverten a” Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

VS’

4. The W. eons n's report describes the sequence of events -
SS &S

arvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the

  
  

« ; achment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Mar: e ge allegation that she had been shown a repped ;
photo of Jack RUBYSthe day before he murdered her son. {A SS er
compli cati on compounding this erroneous | conc lust on was Or

when she had been shown a copy of the same ie Rance

before the Comission, it had been cropped < t S in

a svightly d different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Commission ws ao more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET

pace _ 6° of 8.
\ . . COPY NO. oe

 
SECRET

Cyseeterminiseie tr interpretive Climate that has been

  

Ber the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina-

tion. oe gy tv now not to be RUBY, has cores to

nase s" and has become the centerpiece o & it per
Cos

ther
hy hk is th Si ras OSWALD to have been "framed". *é aw &S

S :
double mt activity in Mexico City.@ &
& 'sS , |

lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico Cit St &

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in

 
 

Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man ;
‘originated during es stay there. ) It is important , therefore, ‘to
an understanding & acquisition and handling of the photographs by
‘the Mexico Sta# SS Ne what the Station ascertained and did with
. the informe pes about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with

Headquarelesec “e

x Ro that information.

   

   

Qe” EX . \
“~ Grew evidence known to this time RES
added since te * exhaustively unique work of the a Wl

Lee Harvey OSWALD spent’ four (4) full days and *«O oe ;
ong September
5

about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about *

ee

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET

COPY NO.

 
74-00000

 
  
 

“put together in such a way that it discl

Ot:
OSWALD and the assassination. . oo S6

SECRET . ,

° ‘The atietne ed report is not intended to be an
answer tO th eatned ropgrt is no article which Mr. Belin
attaches aos Scinemorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph~

 
     

by-paragn tion and comment on that article, .
i ae ve, jore appropriately handled by a sepa~ al ghee |
SAN hd x. Belin, and I will prepare this as NIN ae
POR hat is desired.) Qe yet!
Se i. ee
Sine of the referenced memorandum is BEEN o Moet
RH m should be given now to “whether or aN 2 a
SS gle}?

 
  
 

va er can be fully disclosed at this BEY, TONY
submissYon is designed to make it possible. Cu eakes RN

: ENT ONS
decision. The narrative-interpretive su

pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However,
well beyond what has been released to the publ
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's

 

‘question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about

our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review. the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate re ce to individual items. [NB: There
i his collection; this is its]

    
 
   
 
 

       
   
  
  

ue ae *
one of the photographs sage te

ie) Ge 1963 was introduced into thes 4
; ce record. However, it wee °
duced i @ d in two cropped versions.
Warren d its staff were made rol
the c vr inquiry at Headquarters a

that
taken at dPRferent times in Mexico City a ny
of full knowledge of these facts reached
Clusions regarding the irrelevance of the

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are*—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
SECRET

~ - 45
PAGE 30 of _

- COPY NO.
hoa t01a7-t00t4

 

SECRET a

2 May 1975

-

 

WS |
wong Ser ‘Chief, Operations Staff
O

SY)
SUBJ xy NS view of Agency Holdings regarding
WV aK tnstcsraon of Unidentified Individual
KS in Mexico City published by the
Warren Commission

geet REPBBENCE » .¢. Letter dated 15 April 1975-by ~~ -

Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States,. to

Mr. E. Henry “Knoche (copy § attached to.
accompanying report)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my

_ interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. The attac : is a detailed review in narx&t ve,
a

  
  

chronological o ~ together with appropriate t=
ary ~ of our ive holdings on the OSWALD | SAN t
have a aN th utter of photographs

Mexico Ci & , QJand 5; October

Unidenti andes - Asa consequenc

   
  

tion ofsanalyticaberror, misjudgement
serea a Sn Een) desire to contri

 

men h tigation of the as

cropp * of one of the photo SOF

Unidentifi ndividual was introduce LAG he chain of
er

evidence in‘the OSWALD case on 23 Novemb 963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

* SECRET

e2_inecer ee BYnuie ee

 

OCCe146 2/e 7%

 

 
74-00000

  
  

_ time should bear in mind that a sub
‘also be made, i.e., whether to cr

SECRET: toe

writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
SSSBelin to do whatever is desired with
at this time. It should be noted that
1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by-
a\y visit to the Agency, two of the

 
  
   
  

a

   

objection for
these photog:
Mr. renstd@g
Mr. Ho ON
Cora ission report. (It is these
Hed in The New York Review of Bo

had indicated
EER other than the one already pulf\ished
5 ane S

~~
i "Qs GW &
Sr to me that whoever mak KY Or
whethe a e entire matter can be ful . Se this

Son must
oth es faze up
the background of the photographs alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the ee the first
time without taking out the background. bviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?”
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fu open and final manner, the better KN

    

    
  

we will be ASN ency. But it is my understandin Se
that there > ill sensitivé aspects deriving f Sep

fact that ion which produced the photoggaph HS
was EON Mexican liaison and as a omnedgue
; ime would create additiox@iNprohy

  
  
   
 

   

at that : xico. Also, it should b

the Ar® Weve ORecording to Win Scott's

a. ovember 1963 (see Item Nth p
dg 7 allegedly played a dir Cetin

: ut the photographs into the n he FBI
in Dalla terally from the Field. As far a ‘know, .

‘there has “not been anything published about this aspect

at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

‘Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments:
as stated

SECRET

COPY NO.
on

of President Kennedy |

SECRET

“2 May 1975

SUBJECT : The Photo re GNgidenti tied Individual in the Warren
=e rt: A Factual Chronological Survey
ey

REFERENCE: Memor. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
A pchnent. A)
>

Se RS

1. Ree opin Suggests it would be are’ ee YY FQ.
SN

 

reconsider FUT, Srosure at this time of the « Gees

  

data relative to the Subject. The purpose

“eo Ssurve
realistic evaluation of the suggestion. LY

Oo permit a

Backgr ound

2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination

  
   

of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commissi si

introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1. The as es

an oe >
asi no

1 See Hearings Before the President's Conmissi

 

hereinafter cited as Hearings),

SECRET

PACE aes in

COPY Ru.
