 

 

a -originally trained for a SB mission, which was canceled, -he had received
training for that mission and later Messrs. Edward Wells and Lester Houck : i:
- had met with him and decided to pick him up for utilization in the Congo, - = a ;

-be the case he was interested in WIROGUE/1 possible connéction with
: QIWIN,, WIROGUE/I's training, handling and mission. 7 ;

‘@n0s6 Job) and this was done as an accommodation to WIROGUE. His. ©.
_ training in-small arms and demolition was just that and I accompanied him
. at the training site during the training. “I met him in Frankfurt to brief him -
“..on his new documentation, namely backstopped[| sand totake..
him to Switzerland where a sum of money was deposited in a Swiss bank .~
and a letter of credit was given to him whereby he could enter Teopoldville,”

. His mission was to establish himself, namely by. opening a Goto shop - :

 

for me he had reread the summary and it was apparent that what v was meant.
“WIROGUE/1 was to get innoculations. Nonetheless, although this may we

 
 
   

Be Mr. WIDES said he. knew, from the file that WIROGUE was

 

He also knew that I had handled him while in the U.S.; met him in Frankfurt -

- and briefed him prior to his ‘dispatch to Leopoldville, -Also that while in-

the U.S. ‘WIROGUE had undergone plastic. surgery. Mr. WIDES asked |
specifically what training did WIROGUE receive and what was his mission.
I told him that I had, forgotten after thirteen years about his plastic surgery -

   

 

using the letter of credit, He was to be available to’the Station for para- a
military activities once he was established and the need arose. Unfortunately,

' . WIROGUE, being of a criminal persuasion took the opportunity of the chaos- -_
- in the Congo to engage. in money-making propositions for personal gain, ©
‘didn't follow instructions and became a handling problem, The Station er

a recognized in a short period of time that WIROGUE needed a full-time :

'. handler ‘and didn't have the luxury of manpower to do so. He was eventually -

 

returned to the U.S. and terminated, As for the comment of “execution °

“ squads" ‘I simply did not recall it but if he was contacting people én his. :

own he probably did exceed his authority. Mr. WIDES asked if WIROGUE : os
received “special handling" as opposed to other agents. I replied that in --
a sense he did as WIROGUE was a stateless person who required careful ~

 

; a supervision. On the other hand , Lester Houck was enamored with this .
sor type personality and wanted to ensure WIROGUE was 8 kept happy. :

4 Mr, WIDES than zeroed inc on QyWwin, wanting to know if1I knew the

- case, or that Justin. O'Donnell was handling him and if so what was his

mission, I told him that Q)WIN meant nothing to me nor was I aware that
O'Donnell handled him;as a matter of fact I do not recall ‘O'Donnell being -
in the Congo. Upon probing I explained that I was not the Desk Officer | .

_ for the Congo and was assigned to another section within the Branch,

Only reason I was given the WIROGUE case was due toa decision by _ .-

 
 

$04-10059-10236

oF beg

 

 

 

| MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 7 -

a SUBJECT: “Meeting « with Mr. ‘Burt ‘Wides “oniia Staft Member

 

.. ‘establishing an “executive action” capability within Staff "D". Aside ~:~
:.from the allegations related to Mr. Harvey's activities with relation to '
. Fidel Castro, he, Mr. ‘WIDES had noted that "Mr. Harvey's Deputy,. | aa
.+ | Justin O'Donnell had gone to the Belgian Congo and had handled an agent ’ oS
-“. enerypted QJWIN. The asset had a similar background as WIROGUE/1 |
~ and had on one occasion according to the files been approached by WIROGUE/ T

 

20 June'1975 ~~

 
     

, a, ‘On the afternoon of 17 June 1975 2 Mr. John. ‘Leader of the

Lit IG Staff visited ‘Mr. Kennedy and asked that the undersigned be present, —
is: Mr, Leader said that Mr. Burt WIDES of the Senate Staff had asked to. - *
-” see Mr. David Whipple and the undersigned. Apparently Mr.. WIDES

“) had read some old files relating to Africa and wanted to clear up some .

’ questions, According-to Mr.. Leader the discussion would be informal. —

However, it was possible that subsequent discussions would, depending

on what emerged from these discussions, would be before a larger Senate —

. Staff Group. The files which Mr, WIDES read were WIROGUE, QJWIN:
"and one other (unknown), It:was agreed that the undersigned would see

. “Mr, WIDES to see what he © wanted , as WIROGUE/ 1 was run > by myself in
: - the © early 1960's. : .

ey

: 2s At approximately 1615 hours the same day U1 met with Mr. WIDES, oe
No other persons were present, Mr, WIDES explained that Mr..William °
Harvey had been asked by.Mr. Bissell to look into the feasibility of

 

 

in Leopoldville with a proposition to establish what Mr. WIDES believes

’ is an “execution squad," Moreover, there was a cable in the file relating
.. to the above which stated that "WIROGUE/, 1 exceeded his authority" . .

. written by the undersigned and sent by Mr, Bronson Tweedy. Mr. WIDES

~ ‘went on to say that when he was reviewing a summary of the “WIROGUE/1L

case he noted a statement that WIROGUE/1 would be trained in small arms, «.:

‘demolition and “innoculations" | Mr. WIDES admitted that since he called

re | 5957
ON “an 70 °F 408)
. . : . Bl

  
   

~- Lester Houck who felt that a Case Officer having European experience :

- » have the case which I had. Mr. WIDES asked. if Ur. Wells sawallthe (...
_ |. WIROGUE traffic. I responded that as Mr. Well was responsible for |. ----

_.,, the Congo, undoubtedly he did... He then asked if Messrs. Tweedy and ‘
_.. Houck would see it. Again affirmative,. Mr. WIDES then reviewed the . :
Lumumba arrest and subsequent assassination and asked if I knew if

ie 2 -). either QJWIN or WIROGUE were in any. way involved. I T replied in n the

“: negative.

 

ne — ‘Mr. wIbEs then harked back ‘to the “innoculation" training. i

-- He explained. that he has swom statements that the use of biological -

__. warfare was contemplated in the Congo and wanted to know if WIROGUE .. ~
o> was trained in these techniques, I stated categorically that to my. know-. oe.
= ledge WIROGUE was never trained in these techniques, nor was I aware ee
. they existed or-ever considered, Mr..WIDES assured me they did ?. however
a3 his interview was simply to see if there was a connection between QJWIN ~

- and WIROGUE and to clear up this little question of “inmoculation" which”

me admittedly. was resolved Before, the interview began, ° :

   

2 6. A final note, Mr, ‘WIDES asked if Mr. Glenn Fields v was Mr, -
i Tweedy" s Deputy while I was in Africa Division, I said Yese Then Mr. ;
wo WIDES thanked 1 me and. said that the matter was closed. ; .

 

 

 

 

 

oe Distribution: ;
. O&1 - Inspector General

1--AC/OPS mo
pp -

   

 
