 

co

-3-

SMWAVE/IMOCZAN, In summary it is'wost unlikely that any
future good would result from a tricl of Masferrer and/or -
any of his associates, and it is bighly probable that there
would be created @ climate which would make JHWAVE
operations--of all types--more difficult to carry.out in

@ secure and economical manner. Thies is sot to gay that.
SMUAVE would have to no out of business. This wags not the
ease ia the "Zenith" flap, nor ie it likely to be the case
with Masferrer, However, there appears to be little doubt
that the threshold uf sensitivity: to Agency ectivities on
the part of the general public and of those persons who,

‘grem whatever motives, question the advisability of the

agency “operating” withia the 0.8. would be raised.

11, The question of using Cosar Dicedado ae a
presecution witness presents additional probleas. Diosdade
has been retained as the Custous officer at Key Feat at
the request of the ..enoy., Tho Agency reinburses Cuctous
for Dioedado's salary, Because of his encyclopedic knowledge
of Cuba aad the Florida Keys aren and becausu of bis long
jevelvemeat in “operational activities” by the Agemey, and
by ACS1.om occasion, Uiesdade ie@ considered by many exiles@
end gous officials--an being “a Company (Agency) man." If

_ Qeemtioned under oath Vivsdade presumably would have to

roves) details of his aueoctation with the Agency, actions
¢akea on benalf of the Ayenay, and conceivably cetaila of

. @WUAVR operatioas. In certain inatances, notably regarding

ourreat cperations and eeveral highly sensitive past
operations, the reveintion of detailed informations, especially
concerning agent identities end. operational techsiques, oculdé.
be quite damaging. ueagibly Diosdade could be carefully
briefed concerning the uature of hia teatimosy #o as to avoid.
perjury while not giving wengitive cata. Hvwever, hia nature
fie such that & reasonably clever defense counsel could provone
his inte either indisuretions or contradictions whica would
resent him, the U.%, Customs and the Agency iz aa unfavorable
Sght. The fact that Dicsdade has been repeatedly counended
by Custous and exilea for his efficient and himane handling
of refugees and sHanyees would count for little im s courte

roou where the euctions of the Masferrer fissce would be
wuaaieg high. . .

12, A further problea could arise from the fact that
Diosdado played # lending role in the iavestigatices of the
Masferrer affair, invluding previous abortive atteusts by
the Masferrer and Haitian exiles to launch operations from
Florida, and ¢he feat that Diosdade yersonally (acting ia
his official capacity am Custous Agent resident at Key West}
leé the raid againat the house.at which the exiles vere

SECRET

 

+ Mase

i
i

 

 

 
 

SECRET

aa

SPeo8teS aud tne sree confiscated. The defense might well
accuse Diosdado of having scted not saly for the 0.3.
Customm but algo on behalf of the Agwacy,

13. Ym addition to the foregoing points it should be
woted that historically the similarity of this operation
and the “Bay of Pigs” could recopes the whole queation and
effer a new discussion of the priscser exchaage question.
The racial teese also aight arise bessuse masy of the persons
fmvolved with Masferrar and potential defencaats are of the
Segre race. $f Mauferrer ia brougat te trial, the public
@yupathy, whice will probably be reflected in the jury's
werdict would undoubtedly rest with the defeadazt mot the
progecution. A large percentage of the people esdoubtedly
view Kasferrer’s activities os efforts to rid the western

:Megigghere of aa abominable black cictator with tae further

dmwteation of ueing laitiag territory ag 8 base te resove
another dictator neither ef whos ars friendly to the U.8,

deco B, tsterline
Aeting Chief
Vesterm Meaisphore Division

Attachnent

181) . :
3 February ra)
Distribution

WE/
1 = WH/COG/ESEC
2 - Eesierrer 201

Sa

oLyae! “

 
74-00000

oe

- 0@@ oF 811 of the following sectors:

‘eould lead to the revelation of information concerning a wide

,wemorandua of 2 February 1967 (96C $7-C161) David Cabeza

 -@& am appropriate time. Cabeza is in a position of being

i. Pablo Morejon-Pigueroa (meaber of .

2806. Brigade) soe net
je Arturo Hayans-Alvarez . coo
k. Manuel Jose Leon-Fernander (nember

ef 2606 Brigade) ~< .

1. Francisco Varona Varona-Soto
m. Jesum Rodriguez . .
Bm. Lois Alberto Ulivera (member of .

2806 Brigade) .
& Carlos Luis Soto Borges (menber
ef 2506 Brigade).

La Geant bites wate

&. I(t ie believed that the trial of Masferrer or
any of his colleagues could damage Agency interests in

teed tame

Re Unfavorable publicity concerning
- Agency operations against the Cuban target,
' motably maritime infiltration operationm “““" “~*-7°°"":
based in southern Florida,

b. The exposure of current Agency” ~ are
@rimarily JMWAYE) agente, operational
facilities, coverg and operations, dotably ~"~ ~~
those in the maritime infiltration field.

. c. The creation of a climate which.

“im the long rum could lead to comtinuing
damage to Agency interests and vhich vould .
render the execution of operations against ”~
Cuba and certain »ther targets, especially
tho Caribbean countries, more difficult and
more costly (by virtue of the necessity of
cresting new or more complex cover sechaniams).

   
 
   

6. The appearance of certain individuals s¢ the trial

variety of operational matters—using the-ters “operational”
in its broadest sense. Of the personnel listed im the OGC
WhS Guployed by the agency im agent status. Cabeze was 2
key figure in the AMPAUHA operation, at one time am importast
@MWAVE operation. Cabeza's brother is currently exployed by
SMUAVE; for some time it bag been plasmed to terminate bhim-

ablo to reveal considerable information concerning certain.

SECRET

 
 

 

 

104-40176-10088 a
Foe. ° “ :

ve

~ to re

mie sss BRET

4 FEB We7 “© Niog
oe Ber

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: MASYERRER Prosecution, Wiami, Florida
mammal
|

REFERENCE: Office of General Cowesol Menorandua 67-0181
wo . dated 2 Yebruary.1967.. ... :

1, his weworandun is for your iafornation.

- “2. In reepunge to paragraph 2 cf reference, WH
-. Division has usde a review of our Miami Station and ~
. Headquarters files to determine those persons listed ia
paragraph 4 and #11 persons listed, ima the FBI report
+ attached te reference with whom there han been any
. , Agency agecciatica. . owe tm waren eee eee

tO 3. Of the persons listed in paragraph 4 of reference
a the following have had sous ageociation with the Agency:

woe + -@- David Cabeza : oe
a & Father Diego Eadrigsl
2 , e@. dwiio Cesar Hormilla

. -&. Ideted below are the persons cited in the FBI -
report attached to reference who have beow asgociated with —

\., the Agency. Of these, only two,-Jesas Kodriguez and Arturo
Mayane-Alvarez are current!y enployed. None of-the. rensinder
have aay current relationship. Kesbers of the 2506 Brigade
are ghown a¢ suck in parantheses after their sasess

a@. Rolando Muesferrer Rojas (Informant
Havasa Station~1e48) 1 . .
b&b Reinaldo Rogelio Rodrigues Peres
(member of 3506 Srigade) :
c. Jose Manual Macias, Jr. (member of
- $806 Brigade) . .
d. Ramive Gonzalez Inteate (meaber of
2806 Brigade)
@, A&dolie Gartolome Jimenez Aquiles
f. Eric Arias (uember of 2506 Brigade)
g Alfreéo guis ;
& Refacl Torres (meuber of 2806 Brignde)

 

 

 

| SECRET Task: | wean
bee De i -¥2¢ by

\tacremeemmeme = = cee oe meet cnmnnmeene mee Fe ne ae ene ent e eet no

 

   
 

© Re org

 

 

 
74-0000

  

| 1 operational techniques and facilities employed by JEVAVE ;
| ' im the past, as well as the identity of a sumber of forner :
i : agents of the JMVAVE Station, Although, by extrapolation
“4 and br eabroidering on information and rumors circulating
im the Cuban exile community Cabeza probably could preseat
. ' &@ pleture of JNWAVE activity which might appear exciting
. to the laywaa, it seems unlikely that he bas access to any
@igaificant amount of information concerning sensitive
: cerrent activities. While to the knovledgeable person,
\ withia the 4gency or withia the federal community im Miami,
! Cabeza's information is likely to be unimpressive, there
. Seeas to be little doubt that he could«-as he has done oa
: & gumber of occasions during the past two years——preseat
* @ picture of JNWAVR activity which might iatrigue the
general public. It is impossible to predict whether. Cabeas
would present the Agency im a unfavorable light oF whether
be would choose te concentrate his criticien against other
feGeral agescies. oa :

ees nen Boe ye

Sa siymtdin watene

i
!
i
. 7. A number of the other personas listed im the
: Feference also are in & position to anke allegsticas :
/ concerming various Agency activities, including JMSAVE
\ operations in the maritine.infiltration.and propaganda eis
fields, aad Agency operations againet the Maitias target,
: It is impcesible te utate how ach accurate iaformatios
‘=, €oneerming these topics ta poasesued by -the -groug; or ta
; predict the alaat which wight be takes by thes fa preseating
; thelr atories, {fm the opinion of JHVAYE, om the-begis oft:
| ., ¢be duformation availiable to the Station, none of these
‘ inéividuals possetees « significant ancunt of sensitive
» Gaformation concerning current or impartast paat activitios,
| GSowever, es im the case of Cabena, the clains made by these
: Sadividiala re Agesoy activities aight appear impreasive to
: the general public, espasially if spiced with tidbits of j
2 | SOOMFRCO Iaformation, : |

8 Attnchment cotaiia the past velationship ef certain
individuals in the FHI report ta the Agency, sotably JUYAYE,
Two of those individuals are curreatiy euployed by JMEAYE.
Should cortaia of the other iadiviauale be Summoned te testify,
they could preseat a certain amount ef isferuatioa concerning :
peat practices, personnel and facilities xced by JMWAVE, . ‘

 

 

the eat atl

. ®. Probably the createst danger to tho Aqency liew im.
i! the poesibiiity that tae Circle of teatiecay sight be erpanded
by the defense through the gubpoensing of persona whe are not
! _O@ the. list or mentioned in. the FDI report but who are known
~ <¢@ the Listed perscesel aa being currently euployed by JMVAVE
OF &8 having boon eaployed in the recest past, Given the
3egal precedents established in other cases, it appears

SECRET

 

 
 

ri ay

-~4~

“7

likely that these current employees (agents) of JMNAVE
weuld have tc srovice tres «+t cathiled caevere ia reugonse
to questioning im court. Such teatiaony could cause major
damage to the currest operations, personnel and facilities
of the JUVAVE Btation. Although 1¢ appears that a nuaber
of facilities watch have not bees exposed to agenta e@.ge5
the principal cover unit, JHOCZAN) vould sot be comprauised
through the Cestiassy of curreat agents, there 1a no dowbt
Ghat tae daager to JMUAVE activities, sotably but not
ewclugively to maritize tafiltration operations, would be
severe. Poasibiy more damaging in the long r.s.would be
the aurfectag of qaeutions concerning the “right* of the
Agency to engage im “illegal” activities fron U.S. @oil,
Conceivably the defense would present the pictaze of as
official U.8, Government agency, tha iwpertment of dustize,
prosecuting hepices Cunaa snd Maitian eniies Ulegroes) for
condeeting activity of “the same type” aw taet coaducted
by the Agency with the biessing of the U.&, Govermawat.

At imaginative defense counee] might eves go so far as to

sagene the U.5, Customs Service aud the Agency of conspiriag
te “atop the competition” by-the exiles with the activities
Gondusted by the Ageacy, :

10, JWHAVE Lolievos that there {a eo quevtion that the
Créal ef the Kaslerrer group would bring to tho murface--ia
Geuthers Fieriés sad elaevhere ia the U,8.-~-tae lateat
ourieeity and im sune cases aaisoaity concerning Agency
eperetiona agsinet Cuba {rea tases is the U.S, Thile the
Flevida public 1a geners) is wignly syepatnetic towards the
Agesey with rospest to tts activities neaiast the Castro
Fogiae, there are a saail auaber of Bighly vocal persone we
would wee the trial revelationa es the beats for & renewed
Bttack againet the “Javisible government’ operatiag ta slorids,
GGHAVE judges that i¢ vould take very little publicity ta lead
to the surfacing of the JMOCIAN comples as (be successor te
(he “notorious Zoeita Techaicai Eaterprises, Inc.”, The care
whieh has boom gives to the establiaheeat asd the consolidation
@f the JUICEAM cover im not likely to avail agsinet & coacerted
fevestigation by puslicity media or agcrewaively snoopy |
private partion, Tv, the fact that JROCKHI ig lecates in
a8 &rea aduinistered by the Univernity of Niami could lead
to charges of Ageare “corruption of acetente inetitutions,”
The Sect that the Usiverstty of Mises leadership would, te
i¢ Kas ia the past, cooperate closely with SMEAVE and the
agency would set erase the publicity, tag ecrcutvably could
lead te enough presqure on the University that it indecd would
forced to re-exsmine its relationship to the U.N. Government
coneeraing the South Campus ares, or ita relaticoaship te

2 meemmanrindilin-vaenyiedann snes rot

i
4

 
