 

$04-10467-10125

 

 

i
ae ~
5
?

‘
a, wane - ;
GSE :
ON ee So 7 SF
YGXORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :
SUBJECT: Tebphone Convérsation vith Bernie Reichherdt, 25 August . . 4

1. ‘At 1100 hours 25 + Bernie Reichbardt called from .

3 Mient end esked for (Ton Flores, vio vas not in. He then esked to
speak to me. %e said that in accorcance with our request, he had .
established contact with QDCHAR and asked him if he could furnish a
amy aiditional inforration on the large revolutionary redio center ,
completed in March 1959, amd on Augustin CaPO who, according to
Qocas2, vas the engineer in charge o2 construction of this radio
center, QDCHIAR said he was unable to edd anything to the infor-
tation he had farnished in his origizcal debriefing, and said he
Imew nothing of the operations or who was in charge of or employed
at the radio center. He repeated that the center tas very large
and very expensive and said that CAF) had made a trip to Switzer-
land to bay the equipment. He volunteered information that JAFO's
brother, Ernesto CaPO Jimenez de Ciszeros, was a Communist and that
be had seen =rresto at a meeting in Savana, before 2aTISi4 fell,
when clandestine plans were being meie to get Augustin, then treas-
urer of the 26th of July Movenent, out of Cuba because his life was
Ain danger. QOCEAR said he didn't know whether CarO.was still con-
nected with the radio center, but coumented that if contact could .
be established CAPO would be eble to furnish information about the - 4
center. I don't imow what reply Reickhardt made to QDCi42 on this, _—
but he said to me that it was his urierstanding curing his recent
trip to Headquarters that contacts on the various operational leads
furnished by [°CHAR would be made through the Havana Station, and i
be assumed it vas being done. . : :

2. Reichtardt said that he had not received the persorsl docu-
ments of Q0C3AR which had been forverded from Headquarters as a
seperate attactment to IMH-W-8, He was told they left this office
en 20 august. i

3. Reichbardt said that on the basis of information from ;
Station Havana (S1Va-2590 that famiiy were leaving Eavana for Mexico
tha morning of 24 august}, QDGHAR had called Mexico last night and
learned they had not arrived. He wanted to kmow if any further in-
formation had been received from Havana about the family, ani-ves
told there had been none. . i ,

Martha oe
40 orl
Distribution: we/a/ae etna a
i : Reichardt Conversations pack Fi
1 - Qasr , 90
: a coeeey
Bees

  
