 

24 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR. THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD
OS#351 164 ;

; 1. On 22 March 1977 Office of
Communications, and the undersigned me uring a social
engagement (a party in his honor prior to his PCS to

During social conversations, mentioned
an incident which occurred in the Security. Records Division
file room relating to the OSWALD security files.
was subsequently interviewed by the undersigned a
Brown, Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group, on 23 March
1977 in the Security Analysis Group, Room 3E49, and

related substantially the following. Oo

 

 

 

 

2. Sometime between May 1975 and January 1976 while
an Office sf Security employee assigned to the Security
Records Division file roon, | was requested to
search SANCA in the name of Lee Harvey OSWALD. This request
was in connection with a Freedom of Information case involving
OSWALD, and believed that also
assigned to the Security Records Vivision, made th
This search met with positive results, thus making
aware of the fact that OSWALD's name was entered in .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Subsequently,[~—~—~~—~+(d| came across a file which
he described as relating to OSWALD, and he intended to file
same_with the rest of the OSWALD files on the shelf. ed

‘described this file as covert, thin, and having a
higher file number than the rest of the OSWALD holdings.

He could not remember the name which appeared on the outside
of the file but thought that it may have been one of OSWALD's
akas. Ne further related that he looked inside the file and
believed that it was related to, or possibly identical with,
the regular OSWALD holdings. While attempting to refile this
covert file, he observed that all of the regular OSWALD
holdings were permanently charged to the Security Analysis
Group; thus he believes he sent the covert file to the
Security Analysis Group.

 

E2 IMPDET
=RTYAL CL BY 007472

 
104-10300-10397
CO] uncuassiFieo Out (ol CONF~ENTIAL =] SECRET
; ‘ KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Lee Harvey OSWALD

 

 

 

Michael E. Schneeberger
; Security Analysis Group ) 24 March 1977
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building} OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS. to whem. Draw a line ceross column after each comment.)

 

 

AO? (Aha ae aotin. hed

te,
To

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“OR 610 “tomers 7] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL Oo | wse ony [-] UNCLASSIFIED

 
ae CONFIDENTIAL

4. Later,i_ gain queried SANCA in the name
which he saw on the covert file but found no record.
Perturbed, he querie (Indices Chief) as to
why he could find no record in the name of a file which he
knew existed. He specifically asked[ _—__jit the name
(which he_cannot remember now) could have been erased from
SANCA. []: replied that she did not think that was
possib en apprised i of the above,
since | had processed the OSWALD Freedom of Infor-
mation Act request. made unknown inquiries for
some three to four hours concerning the_possible erasure ~
of a name from SANCA and finally told that there
was nothing to worry about, that he took care
of the matter. [_ also advised that he made his
immediate supervisor, , aware of the incident.
‘ advised that he heard nothing further concerning
the incident but privately harbored doubts about the resolu-
tion of the incident. He mentioned that he entertained
thoughts of reporting the incident to the Inspector General
but has not discussed it with anyone subsequently until he
apprised the undersigned on the night of 22 March 1977.

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. Ld was advised by the Deputy Chief, Security
Analysis Group that the Security Analysis Group would make
the incident a matter of official concern and would begin
immediate inquiries. was cautioned not to vocalize
allegations regarding possible erasures of SANCA entries or
possible illegal destruction of official files. However,
he was told that he was perfectly free to bring the entire
matter up with the Inspector General if he felt it necessary.

Qa So Sag

Michael E. Schneeberger
Security Analysis Group

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
