74-0000

 

with respect te the distribution of our meteriale, I did
@iscuss with him briefly the idea of runing ¢ synposiua da
CUADERNOS esseessing the prasont state of the Cuben revolution,
fte probsble development, and the steps which cust be taken =...
for the preparation of a new program for Cuba's developacat, .
He personally believed that this would be a useful thing for
CUADERNOS to undertake, and at no time edemed anxious to Limte -
the coutributora to such a symposium to those people who were
menbers of hig own particular group. Throughcut our talks,

I found bim free of these tendencies toward exclusiveness

which one encounters so often in exiled groups, aad on every
question whether it concerns the bulletia or the symposiua

im CUADERNOS, or our possible work in the Domiaican Republic,
he agreed that objectivity vas the only basis upen vhich we
cea vorkend that the open approach was best. X found that
he was an easy man to get along with and ons who makes an
iapression of slicerity, forthrightness, deterainatiun, ead
sousthing much sore intangible which I would call personal
cleenness, I intead te look ius ways of working iurther with
bie in the futures, _

   
 
  

   

 
74-0000

 

 

VISIT WITH MAHIEL RAY AD CARLOS DIAGO TH PUERTO BIC

  
   

DORIEG TEX FIRST WEEK OF JumE, 1962

 

“the porpode of eh visit ves to Atscues the posstbilicy :
of « Cubsa taforuation bulletin fa line with che euggestion moda
gone weeks earlier by J Javier Pascoe, This was slee am oppertuatey

to discuss other activities upon which we might possibly collaborate,
I spoke with Ray for two or three hours following day long
iecussion with Diago. When I deecribed for Bay the project of the
Cuban information bulletin as Bisge and 1 conceived ef it, he was
onthusisstic, Xt should be recelied that I bed moved eusy from
Pasoa’s earlier conception of the bulletin. end bad coms to
conclusions thet such o bulletia would be moat useful ead so!
if it were based on material coaing from inside Cuba, tn other
words, we vould not wish merely co explicate bulletina such 8

.

 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
    

with thote ova particular slant, We havea det tor the ad af

bulletin I em discussing is our oma Folotin Infemetivg which te
based on matertala propered entirely inside Speia, Beth

Rey bes a euch more extensive | wetverk through ‘which
a vegular flow of information, The wo agracd on the vn
belletia,
: the nest question wes Ehst of sponsorsite
feel that the Congress should be directly tavelved fa euch
The two possibilities we discussed vere the group areusd che aagesing
POLITICA ia Venoouels ond the scheol in Costa Ates watch trains

 

  

eene |

 
[td 0179-10154
rei 5

 

       

we eb s petlt

 

 

 

  

ir

 
 

 

 

- producing most of the informsticn used in the bull

" with Bay. By early Septeaber, ve should kaov

 

apoke eathuatastically about the werk being done thare ‘ext foie
that this would be the most suitable plece for the peopsration of
the bulletin, 1 cold bin thet wa wuld mova abead along those

 
  

lines and see if ve could interest the school:.ia this § ition,

He, tn cura, promised his full support for’ ths prose agreed ;
to make avatloble the informetion at his spose é a
basis, The project for the bulletin ts noy in the hands of.
Father Wunes at the Costa Rican school, 1 have sont “hte a detatted
outline of how we conceive of the bulletin, and have asked him to
Gieeuss it with Reese Plores during Baeza Flores's etay at the
echool in July. Ideally, 1 would thiak thet sonsone from the school
would vant to mect with Carlos Diago and Feste Mazo who is.
presently in Venoruela, These tvo young men would ba the wast
likely people to produce the kind of bulletin. doses! ‘above.: 1
might furthermore bo useful to meet with Ray of

 
 
   
  

in the beginning, The question of where the bulle!
Located was lefe open, But :
| de tm Henico City under the direction of Wicver
useful vay of proceeding, I contime to feai thae .
be located at the school itself where tha prodection of euch ‘a
bulletin could be gitcad fm to the regular curric
Bassa Fleces will bs discussing. the project “tm Coe
then pass by Puerto Rice in order to élecus

  
  
  
 
  
   
 

project. : ad /
“With regard to @ wore general discussion
would ithe te point exe 8 tember of the things which be
Ge ms,

Ya che first plece, he wee vecy worm in b

 
74-00000

  

our Servieto da Prensa which be fiods very useful, Furtheracro, be

offered his help im the distribution of the Bxager book and of
CUADEREOS fm Cuba, For this purpose, be suggested that wo ead
eopies of CUADERNOS, a hundred per aosth, sagelarly
Ctensroa whe lives at 347 North Bast 36th Sereat, Miaag;
Cieneros would act under the instructions of Ray as the eeibater
Kee? in Cuba fox CUADEANOB end other moterials vhich we would produce,

' pay also urged thet we do whatever possible tn tha Dodinicen
Republic, He spoke of the many seeds of the fecellectuals there,
and of the role which the Congress could play. He has agreed to
send forvard a List of names and adresses of people who should be
seceiving our materials end with vhou we should be in contest,

With regard to his om plans, he spoke of him iatentica.

to start © lé-page newwpaper in the near future. Furthermore, . he

. is making active efforts to start up a redio station. He bases
hie activities oa the belief that an uprising ia Cuba is ‘possible

\ Af an alternative is offered to Fidel on tha one hand, end the Niewd

\ exile group ca the other. . : My general impression of Ray wes & good.

\feae. He otruck me. as a woderate, intelligent man, A@litcle given :
to hysteria ond Glogen-nongering, Hie best quality seaus to be
his akill og ep organiser, He did not strike us as sonsone with
great lesdarchip potential, at least in teras of mass appeal. Be
4d aoem to be @ practical and personally well-organtzed tetlow

: with whoa ope cen work | 00 @ systematic basis, Led
fa tice with as elaborating bie convinctioa thet

(“ Ry) > Guba fo possible provided « (third) alternative |
[recat which he stressed vas his cadoaes at tt

 
   
  
   

 
 
  

 

 

   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  

i suppose. for bie wovensat. i ga not in a position 6 «
\rescd of what be said is accurate, but ca the bas :
‘+ Bours of conversation wich hin, I would tend to believe wast of

what he told as.

   

   

f Im Glostiag, 1 eboold say thet aost of car tatk ab of a
a 4 Limited aad practical nature dealing primarily with the bulletin
% project ant with the various ectivitics whisk be can undertake

| (e se
