 

 

2e
. ~4.
. Se I told Reichhardt I would - and get rerted |
hia me the informtion as scon ag possible. ¥ Cancvacted
Ben Evans* home, passed the messare and asked him to call Kéich=

6. I asked Reichhardt to have the FBI in Miami compile the data oa
werBell, if 4% had not already dene so, and send it to Fb headquarters *
in Washington so that we could study it to determine if this individual

ean be used operationally.

5

 

y

i.34
 

f

.

‘roa totea-t0t26

.
ay
.

Sef

 

a RETURN TO CIA
| - . Backoround Use Onty
; Do Not Reprocucs ©

§ hugu at 1959

MEMORAYDO™ FOR THE RECCRD
SYRUECTs -Teleshone Conversations with Reichhar’t in Mieat on 2 august 1959

1. Subject phoned ne at 1050 and said that the FEI in Miami hed a
report attributed to CIA Misael which said that Major hilliam Alexander
Mergan of the Cuben arxy is- plot to assassinate Castro.
Reichhardt said he did not hay phore number and had been
unable to find out whet the sto! ase said he necded to know what
was going on because the attribution of this Yeport was placing him in

assing position with the FBI in Milani. 1 zhi would have
r) call him on the Subject. (I leter an. asked
3 Ghone Re and asked hin to give Reic it the background

 

ich t
on this nsttors| ee ne would do so, and explained that the
resort in question Came from AMOAR who had given the information to .
Charles. Andcrson, sH/FI, on 1 August, and that Anderson had transsitted
it to the Burean Imrediately, ANSOAR told anderson that he had sitexpted
to give this infors.tion to Reiehherdt orally, but thet Reichhardt had
ignored it ard asked him to grepare a written report on the matter.)

2. Reichhardt said thct he wes out of touch with AMBCAR who had
told hia that he was going to ew York and would probably stoo in hash-
ington, but had not checked out wita hin before lesving. At the tine
of this call I was unaware that AMBLAR had been in touch with kagnington.

: 3. Reichhsrdt said that he was ont of touch also with thinesz
v“ortuondo. He said he had trled to Phone Nunes un u mmoer of cecasions
but the phone was not answered. Discreet insuiries in Miami else in-
dicated that Hunez' location ts unknown at this tine. Reichhardt said
he is still holding the letter frou Col. King to Nunez. .

4. Reichnardt shoned me again at 1930 to say that he had vst
talked with the FET officer favestigatiny the renert of the alleged
plot to sssagsinate Castro, Zhe FEI san told nin that his instructions
did not say to protect the source, and thst therefore he would have to
hit Morgan hard on the ba, reoort. Keichnardt said that he
was again unable to a wanted to know df the source
anauld ve vrotected. He Qrthat if we want the source of the
report protected, tne -BI in Lashincton should be informed in a namer
which would not indicate that tne Miami 25 arent on the case had been
talking with Reichharit so frankly. Reichnarct also said thet’ the
Surea: needs additional details on the circunstances surrounding the
procurement of the information by aYCOAR tn omer to be able to interogete
Morgan intelligently,

 
