13-00000

House Select Comittee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives (HESCA)

As indicated in the responses to questions 7 and &,
the FBI, as of October 1, 1968, found no substantial basis to
concluds Nosenko was not a bona fide defector; as of Hay 1i,
1977, accepted a,CIA assessment that Nosenko was a bona fide
dezector; and has not perceived any significant evidence,
from 1964 to date, that Nosenko reported other than the facts
about Oswald as he knew then. :

"15. Did.either the FBI or the CLA have primary
responsibility for investigating Nosenko's state~

- ments about Oswald? If neither had primary
responsibility, was there any division of
responsibility?”

. The FBI had primary responsibility for investigating
Nosenko's statements about Oswald that pertained to his
(Oswald's) activities in the United States, including the
assassination of President Kennedy. The CIA had primary
responsibility for investigating Nosenko's statements about
Oswald's activities abroad.

“Ig. What communieation, if any, existed between |
the FB] and CIA with respect to evaluating and/or
investigating Nosenko's statements about Oswald?”

The FBI forwarded a letter, dated March 6, 1964,
from the Director, FBI, to the Director, CIA, enclosing
memoranda dated february 28, 1964,-and March 4, 1964, cap-
tioned "Lee Harvey Oswald," which summarized the results of
FBI interviews of Nosenko regarding Oswald on February 26
and 27, 1964, and March 3 and 4, 1964. The results of a CIA

' interview of Nosenko on January 23, 1964, regarding Oswald
were furnished to the FBI in a letter from the CIA dated
April 28, 1964. .These particular pieces of correspondence,
while not setting forth any specific requests or investiga-
tive leads, were furnished for purposes of evaluation.

Where information is not provided, it is either
not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or is not being
furnished pursuaht to the Memorandum of Understanding.

fl

 
13-00000

:
!
$

House Select Comm} ttee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

i

The FBI from 1964 to 1968, characterized Nosenko
as a Soviet defector whose bona fides had not been established.

"10. What is the FBI's position today on the
question 9f whether Nosenko is bonefide (sic)?"

The FBI currently characterizes Nosenko as a former
Soviet Committee for State Security (KGB) officer who has
furnished reliable information in the past, and considers
Nosenko to be a bona fide Soviet defector.

"hh. If the answer to question 9 is different from
the response to question 10, when did the change
occur and why?" :

The answer to question 8 is considered responsive
to question 11. , ,

"12. What was the FBI's position from 1964 to

1968 on whether Nosenko was telling the truth in

the statements he made to the FBI about Oswald?"

nen .

The FBI did not take a position, from 1964 to 1968,
on whether Nosenko was telling the truth in the statements
he made to the FBI about Oswald. The statements were accopted
at face value and qualified in terms of the source and the

_ conditions under which they were received.

"13, What is the FBI's position today as to
whether, Nosenko was telling the truth in the
statements he made to the FBI about Oswald?"

. The FBI is satisfied that Nosenko truthfully
reported the facts about Oswald as he knew them.

"14, If the answer to question 12 is different
from the response to question 13, when cid the
change pecur and why?"
13-Q0000

ne ee

Youse Select Comnittee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)
t

\

"7. What significance — with respect to possible

foreign involvement in the sssassination.as well es

to the Issué of Nosenko's bonafides (sie)—does

the FBI attach today to Nosenko's statements about

Oswald?" |

®

The FBI Woes not perceive any significant evidence of
foreign involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy,
nor does the FBI perceive any credible evidence that Nosenko's
defection was a Soviet ploy to mask. Soviet governmental
involvement in the' assassination. Therefore, the FBI is
satisfied that Nosenko reported the facts about Oswald as he
knew then. {

"8. If the enswer to question 6 is different from
the response to question 7, when did the change
oceur and hy?” ;

The FBI had no direct access to Nosenko from
April 3, 1964 until April 5, 1969, and therefore was not in
a position to make.an objective assessment of his bona Fides
nor of the veracity of information furnished by him. Thus,
information provided by him, in early 1964, was accepted at
face value and qualified in terms of the source and the
conditions under which it was received. On October 1, 1968,
the FBI advised the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) that,
based upon a review of material provided by CIA, the FBI :
found no substantial basis to conclude that Nosenko was not
a bona fide defector; however, the FBI did not reach any
overall, gofinitive conclusions regarding his bona fides
because of a lack o£ access to Nosenko and all collateral
information pertinent to such an assessment. Effective

May 11, 1977, the CIA and FBI concurred that Nosenko was a

bona fide defector based upon an assessment of the
totality of information furnished by him.

"9, What was the FBI's position from 1964 to
1968 on the question of whether Nosenko is
bonafide (sie)?"

of oe ee
13-00000

House Select , amittee on Assassinations
uU. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

SA Walter was the recipient of a personal letter of
commendation, datied October 3, 1963, from the Director, FBI,
for his superior Work in the handling of a very sensitive,
complicated, fast) moving, and highly publicized espionage case.
Previously (on November 7, 1954), he had received « meritorius
salary increase for his outstanding work on another espionage
case, successful interrogation being the key aspect of that
investigation. , . :

SA Gheesling,. at the time of the pertinent Nosenko

"interviews, served as a Supervisor at FBI Headquarters and

had considerable experience in espionage, intelligence and
counterintelligence investigations. SA Gheesling supervised
the field investigation of Oswald (from the latter's return to
the United States on June 13, 1962 until September, 1962, and
from November 22, 1963 through mid-1964). He was assigned
exclusively to supervisory responsibilities relative to the
assassination of President Kennedy.

While the specific knowledge of Oswald's background,
possessed by these SAs at the time of the Nosenko interviews,
can be answered dnly by the SAs themselves, SA Gheesling's
prior assignment ‘to supervision of the Oswald investigation
would tend to indicate that he, at least, was quite knowledge-
able of data contained in FBI files concerning Oswald.

"4, On the cates that Nosenko wes questioned about.
Oswald, does there now exist or did there ever exist:
a. a tape of the questions asked and Nosanko's
answers; ;
b. a transcript of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers;
ec. asummary of the questions asked and.
Nosenko's ensyrers?”

. {

As noted in FBI memorandum dated June 19, 1978,-
captioned as above, and which was prepared in response to HSCA
Aietter, dated Jue 15, 1978, to the Attorney General, FBI
records searches have not located any extant tape recordings

a
t
me
1
13-00000

House Select Committee on Assassinations
U. &. House of Representatives (HSCA)

ov verbatin transcripts of FBI interviews with Nosenko that
concerned Oswald and/or the assassination of President Kennedy.
A document has been located which indicates that FBI personnel
did record the February 26 and 27, 1964, interviews of Nosenko,
among others. Since no recordings or transcripts have been
located, it can be. assumed that the recordings were used by
the interviewing SAs to check the accuracy of their notes
prior to dictating the results of the interviews, {It is
further assumed that, upon verifying the accuracy of summary
reportings of the interviews, the recordings were. disposed of
since they had served the purpose for which they were made,
although no record, of such disposition can be found. Summary
reportings of the Five pertinent interviews are extant, and
were dolivered to the HSCA on March 21, 1978.

"5, What criteria, if-any, was used to determine:
a what suojects to question Nosenko about;
b. how much time to devote to each subject?”

FBI fire’ do not contain a specific enumeration of
criteria used to determine the particular subjects Nosenko
was to be questioned about nor the amount of time to be devoted
to each subject' in! the questioning. .
“6. What significance — with respect to possible
foreign invelvement in the assassination as yell
as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides (sic)—did
the FBI attach during the years 1964-1968 to Nosenko's
Statements about Oswald?"

.
The FBI, during the years 1964-1968, considered

Nosenko's statements about Oswald to be very significant elements

of his initial reportings, the veracity of which had to be
assessed in relatjon to the totality of information furnished
by him. The FBI perceived Nosenke's statements about Oswald,
depending upon a subsequent, definitive resolution of Nosenko's
bona fides, to be the most authoritative information available

indicative of a lack of Soviet governmental involvement in the

assassination of President Kennedy.

 

 

 
13-00000

QUFICE OF THE DINECTOR
. *,

 

ce a

souse|
vu. §

 

1
!
!
'
i

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20535

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEPERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CIA a
‘Efice of Legislative
Counsel ~- FYI

 

January 8, 1979

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

» HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

This responds in full to a December 18,
1978, letter to the Attorney General signed by G. Robert
Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, which asked
that the FBI declassify, in toto, a Secret, September 14,
1978, response made to 16 interrogatories pertaining to
Yuri. Ivanovich Nosenko which were propounded by the
Committee in its letter of September 5, 1978.

Detlassification of the September 14, 1978,
response requixed coordination with the Office of Legis-
lative Counsel, CIA, which interposed no objection to
declassifying certain portions of that response.

The Committee's attention is invited to the
fact that CIA did suggest, with regard to the response
to interrogatory number "8", that the FBI "... may wish
to correct the dates on which the FBI did not have direct .
access to Mr. Nosenko, to read 3 April 1964 until 8 December

1968."

For the convenience of the Committee, the
following declassified, verbatim reiteration of the
September 14, 1978, response is provided.

a
|
{.
.

‘

e
Weer Repost, vel 12, gp SE3- Sjo

Forbes
104-10429-10083

 

UNCLASSIFIED = J

SUBJECT: {Osiensi)

   
 

 

FROM
R.S. Gabrielson
605317

TO: (Officer designation, roam number, and
building)

    

   

f

Ray Reardon O/Securit
4E13

, Russ Holmes ia oLC
2011
L 63

Voooscr
281405

Yooo/se

*R. Gc

uv

Rininger
07

“ERNAL
é ONLY

 

Dir/FBI Response Re Nosenko Interrogatories

EXTENSION

OLC/HSCA

1385 |
1046

  

   

FORWARDED

 

OFFICER'S
INITIALS

   

 

 

 

 

om ATO MMSE C] secret =] CONFIDENTIAL «=

 

 

[I con

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

  

NO. ;
OLC 79/0205/1

to whom,

 

 

ENTIAL

   
  
    

Y January 1979

COMMENTS (Number coch comment to show fram whom
Drow @ line ocross column offer each comment.)

NOTE:

The attached received
from FBI.

I bring it to your

“attention for any thoughts

you might have on its
substance.

Please call me with
your comments.

Rodger
1046 (R)
1385 (R)

Att.

 

eM CJ UNchassiFisa

By 4

(1 Secret

 
   
  
13-00000

aay

— ew

House Select Committee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)
all

This responds in full to the following enumerated
interrogatories lsubmitted for consideration in a letter,
dated September /5, 1978, to the Attorney General and signed
by G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counscl and Director, HSCA.

"1. On what Gates and for how long was Nosenko
questioned by the FBI about Lee Harvey Oswald—
from 1964 'to present?"

The files of the FBI indicate that Yuri Ivanovich
Nosenko was interviewed regarding Oswald and/ov the assassi-
nation of Presideat John F. Kennedy on February 26 and 27,
1964, and on March 3,:4 and 6, 1964. The FBI files do not
record the specific duration in whole or in part as to
topical discussions, of those five interviews; however,
summary communications indicate the February 27, 1964 inter-
view was conducted on the afternoon of that date and the
March 4, 1964 discussion of Oswald occurred at tho outset
of an aftornoon interview on that date.

"2. When Nosenko was questioned by the FBI about
Lee Harvey Oswald, who did the questioning?"

The FBI interviews of Nosenko, during which he was
questioned about Oswald and/or the assassination of President
Kennedy, were conducted by Special Agents (SAs} Alekso
Poptanich, Maurice A. Taylor and Donald B. Walter on
February 26 and 37, 1964; by SAs Poptanich and W. Marvin
Gheesling on Mardh 3 and 4, 1964; and by SAs Poptanich,
Taylor and Waltey on March 6,. 1964.
13-00000

House Select Committee on Assassinations
U. &. House of Representatives (HSCA)

1 :

! . . .
"3, What background, if any, did the interro-
gator have in interrogations? What knowledge
did the interrogator have with respect to Oswald's
background?"

; There abe mo retrievable FBI statistics upon which
to base a quantification of the interrogatory experiences of
the SA personnel who interviewed Nosenko.on the five pertinent
occasions. Suffice it to say, the techniques of cooperative
and hostile interrogations are integral aspects of the training
and almost daily jduties of SA personnel. In that regard, it
is noted that.duying the February and March, 1964 interviews
SA Poptanich had jalmost 13 years of SA experience; SA Taylor
had over 31 years of SA experience; SA Walter had completed
almost 17 years of SA experience; and SA Gheesling had over
13 years of SA experience. Further, their respective personnel -
files disclose the following:

SA Poptanich was then fluent in the Russian language
(Nosenko's native tongue). The Annual Report of Performance
Rating, dated March 31, 1962, noted that SA Poptanich, during
the previous twelve months, had participated in the interro-
gation of a Soviet defector and his knowledge of the Russian
language and mores of the Russian people proved most helpful
relative thereto,

, SA Taytor, on September 11, 1962, received an incen-
tive award in reiogni tion of the superior fashion his responsi-
bilities were discharged over an extended period of time. The
Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Washington Field Office,
in submitting a recommendation for the incentive award,
commented that SA Taylor had demonstrated exceptional ability
in the interrogaltion and debriefing of three Soviet defectors,
all of whom were intelligence officers. SA Taylor's Perfor-
mance Rating for the period April 1, 1963--March 31, 1964,
noted he was recognized as the finest interrogator on the
Soviet espionage squad in the Washington Field Office, which
accounted for his assignments to interview Soviet defectors.
