 

 

 

SECRET

The treatment on page 26, of Ambassador Mann's interruption,
is somewhat confused. If the reference to Mann's request “that Cuban
diplomatic personnel be arrested," is intended for Duran there is some
-imprecision. She was. a Mexican citizen, employed by the Consulate,.
not to be catagorized as diplomatic personnel. Did he want others
arrested? (U)

On page 28 the draft says that FBI and CIA doubted
Alvarado's veracity. It is correct to say that they had professional
doubts that were vindicated. (C)

Page 29 talks about uncertain jurisdictional issues, without
reference to the rather close cooperation between the CIA and the
Legal Attache's office on the Alvarado matter, w while the jurisdictional
matter was being worked out.

 
74-0000

( SECRET €

activity was removed in time from the actual event. In fact, he was
the seco man to run the Cuban Task Force subsequent to the Bay of
Pigs. (U . :

 

; Harvey was a tough, blunt man. He called things the way
he saw them. This characteristic possibly was responsible for his
reassignment from the Cuban program, but more importantly, he would
have had no illusions on that score. Reportedly, he did feel that the
Administration was uncertain in what it wanted to do against Cuba; he
reportedly believed that it lacked determination and fortitude. He
finally told the Attorney General that they (Robert Kennedy and
General Lansdale) had to make up their minds; they wanted dramatic
operations against Cuba, but without the publicity that such activities
inevitably would generate. In making this point, he reportedly
told them-that they wanted "to do it with mirrors." This appears ~
to have led to his replacement at the personal request of the
Attorney General. (U) -

 

. It is safe to assume resentment on Harvey's part. However,
he was a realistic and experienced government employee, and does not
exactly fit the fantasies that inexperienced persons may wish to
weave about him. He was a man more likely to particularize in such
matters, and such resentment as he would have felt would have been
directed at the Attorney General rather than as suggested in the draft
report, "the Kennedy's." (U)

 

Harvey was a man who uniquely kept his own counsel. There
would be very few who would truly have been privy to his views. It
is doubted that the Committee has competent evidence on this score,
whatever the generalized descriptions that it might have received. (C)

Assertions of what is "known" about Harvey's general attitude
towards "the Kennedy's" may provide a convenient hook for ascribing to
him the motive that would serve as the basis for looking at ZRRIFLE as
a possible instrument of the President's association. ZRRIFLE, because
of Harvey's involvement in plotting against Castro is a proper subject
for attention by the Committee, but the basis for this speculative.
aan departure serves more to distort the record than to illuminate
it. (U

 

B. At the bottom of page 2 a statement is made that the CIA made the
ZRRIFLE file available only after "repeated requests." The first
request for this information that was made to the office that provided
it came from the HSCA investigator working the problem. His unacceptable
churlish manner received the direct response it merited, which may explain
why he never approached that office again. The material was requested in
January and was made available in January. The information was made
available at once, but languished for weeks before he took advantage of it.

SECRET
 

[roa t01de-t0076)

re, SECRET -¢

OLC 79-0113/5
25 January 1979

SUBJECT: Comments on HSCA Drafts

I. Miscellaneous Issues - HTLINGUAL Index Cards

Page 2. Names of Egerter, O'Neal, Rocca (C)
Page 3. Names of Hartman and Egerter (C)
Page 6. Egerter's name (C)

II. Miscellaneous Issues - Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 Opening Sheet - "AG"

This draft reflects the insistence of HSCA investigators in. -
pursuing the meaning of "AG" on a random basis for some time, rather
than making a formal request to the Agency. They asked a series
of people who would not have had the working-level technical
knowledge with which to answer this question. When a request
was finally made to the Agency, the answer was forthcoming.

"AG" is computer lanauage for American defector to the East. (C)

 

The only reason that this was ever worth considering (not
that an answer was not officially available) was the working thesis
that "AG" meant Agent. Having wasted so much time in pursuing the
question in a furtive and groping fashion, they now feel it necessary
to spend 5 1/2 pages discussing it. further. What "AG" means is clear
and accurate; exactly when this particular piece of computer language
was developed is the subject of disagreement, but that is of no
real Significance. (U)

Page 1. Rocca's name (C)

Page 2. Rocca's and Egerter's names (C) RETURN TO CIA
Pages 3-6. Hartman's name (C) Background Use Only
Da Mot Reproduce

III. ZRRIFLE

: A. The assertions of Harvey's "known" antagonism and
hatred of "the Kennedy's" are at least dubious, if not seriously
distorted. (U)

For the purposes of perspective, Harvey came to the Cuban
operation late in the game. The point is he was not involved in the gO
Bay of Pigs operation and any personal attitude he held on that 22>

 

SECRE

 
aN

 

 

 

SECRET +e

This was not unusual on the part of the investigators; large
quantities of material assembled and made available for review was never
reviewed. (U) .

C. The treatment of ZRRIFLE emphasizes considerations during the
initial period when ZRRIFLE was being studied. It ignores the fact:
that the Committee has in its possession unrefuted statements, with .
references to supporting information, showing that these various
things were never done. My letter to Blakey (27 Sept 78) outlines.
a good bit of this. (U) :

This section of the report is rather badly conceived and uncon-
vincingly presented. (U)

IV. Helsinki

oe Page 4. References to CIA files on the Soviet Consul in
Helsinki raises a sources-andzmethods question. References to
"two CIA dispatches from highlights the existence of the
Station there. General references” to the name of the Soviet Consul

should be considered to determine if the story can be told without
using that name. ({(C) ;

 

VY. Untitled, Hand-Written Draft on Non-Interviewing of Oswald

 

On the first page, as a matter of organization, the third
sentence describes CIA's "claim that no records existed" as stimulating
speculation that Oswald had some relationship with the Agency. In
fact; CIA was not making its "claim" in a vacuum, but was responding
to allegations which already reflected such speculation. (U) .

. At the top of the second. page there is a statement about
a DCI affadavit being in response to a Warren Commission request. At
the top of the next page the statement is made that the affadavit
“was partially instigated by a newspaper article.” -It may be
that the Warren Commission request resulted from the newspaper story, but
it is not customary for CIA to issue affadavits as a response to newspaper
stories; simply, as stated, it did so in response to the Warren Commission
request. (u)

On page 6 the crypt KUJUMP is used. (C)

Page 10-13 the names of Halligan (P.?), Tamprelle (P.?),
and Dennis Densyla (sic) (T.?). (C)

; Again at pages 20-21 the names of Citrynell, Webster, and
Kiniarelli (T/P?). (C)

SECRET 9p
74-0000

 

 

 

SECRET

In considering why Oswald was not in fact interviewed
on his return from the U.S.S.R., assuming that he could have been,
the HSCA draft omits information that it was provided to the effect
that the Soviet Union was allowing large numbers of its citizens to |
migrate and that this had flooded the machinery at that time. (U)

VI. Alvarado

The true identity of Alvarado has been protected by the .
Warren Commission and the Church Committee; it should. be handled in
this report with the "D" identity being used. (C)

It is noted that references are made to the Mexico City
Station at pages 7, 8, 11, 13, 17, 22, and 25. (C) ;

The name of Birch O'Neal appears at pages 9,and 16. _Win,,
Scott appears at page 18. Alvarado's Nicaraguan(casd officer }}verez, |
is mentioned at pages 16, 17, and 21. (C) , ;

References to intercepted conversations appear at pages
17, 19, and 26. (S) ;

Use of the polygraph ~.It was mentioned in connection
with Alvarado in the Warren Commission report. It is mentioned here
at pages 17, 22, and 23. Does it raise a methods question? (C)

“At about line 20, page 3, Alvarado's name is used where

- apparently Oswald's name was intended. (C)

_ At page 12 of the draft a statement is made to the effect
that Ambassador Mann's efforts to investigate the possibility of .—
Cuban complicity were being "restrained." The issue is that what
the Ambassador was trying to prove is not necessarily the same
thing as an investigation. If he was trying to direct certain
findings, then failure to follow his predilections is subject
to a different description. (U)

On page 23, the report states that it is unclear whether
the latitude to be given the polygraph operator implied that Alvarado's
polygraph was designed to prove his story a fabrication. Actually
it is clear from the statement preceeding that one that reliable actions
were wanted, the polygraph operator having been instructed that Alvarado
was to be “well-fed, rested, and not in fear of bodily harm." In other
words, he was to be in good shape to ensure that his responses were as
reliable as possible. The observations of the report on this
point are strange. (C)

 

, 46K)
