 

 

 

" 23 March 1961

MEMORANDUM FCR RECORD:
SUBJECT: AMIPAS/1 Trip to Washingtes D.C., 21, 22, 23 March 1961.

 

Reservations were made at the Carrilcn House, 200 Wisconsin Ave., FE 7-1100, “
for a furnisked efficiency -($9.50 par day single) for Subject beginning early

Tuesday morning. $100 was wired to Subj on 20 March for travel and expenses -

she was "dower. to pennies". (The money was sent "Will Call" to Western Unéon

€47 Madison £ve.

Subj was contacted Tuesday AM in Rm S551, and given a long list of suggestions
for the JMOORE Cperation, with a reqzest to give us detailed sketches of as ,
many as she could. She was provided with a portable typewriter and supp ies.

Subj had brought along additional data on AREVALC and CORGUJEDA, as well es other
items on her trip to Caracas. She also ha pes of her interviews with students.
this material was subsequently shown to eA Chief, who had eridenced
an interest in AREVALO. The material was also shown to Chief, WH/CA, P:

wha hed neerthuetie unemonted wmatential cha hed meeeided on FBETATO ona bt

 

  

Subject was also provided with copies of Bohemia, Revolucion, Avance, 2B
. and EB Mundo, Subj is quite emphatic on the harm done to our cause by
propaganda put out by our country. ‘Ste has maintained for seme months,
part CASTRO's march into the Communist camp was encouraged ‘oy gur general >ropaganda
campaign. Her contention is that the Cubans already know there are open sewers

and garbage in the back yard, and that our constant dunning of this fact ixto the }
‘ears and eyes of the Cubans is simpiy rubbing sait into wounds. It is destructive

rather than constructive propa, unda.

 
 

By way of illustration, she laid out side by side Revolucion, Bohemia, ani Bohemia
Libre. Even without stucring the context of the articlés, “ne Visual exermTes
were obvious. Cne of her points: that even iliiterates would get a message from
the human interest phetograpny of Perslucion and Sohemia, while Bohemia Litre
used primarily "me" shots. (Judging oy the exaxples she showed me, she -ad a

4g 8
point.)
e

  

 

Subj has been asked by William S. BAPNES, Law Prof at Harvard, to work with him
aad Horacio S0DOY, Argentine law student at Yale, on one of several prozscts he
is undertaking in connecticn with the L.A.States. These include a proposZed

tax reform plan for certain L.A.States. She will get further details fran BARNES
when she visits Cambridge on Friday, 2h March. BARNES also asked her if she would
like to work on one of his projects in Washington, D.C. for OAS - she is teing
discouraged from accepting this pasition. ”

Subj was advised that since she had teen unable to return to Cuba, the conditions
~ her proposed contract were invalid. She was informed, however, that we were
attempting to.arrive at a fair arrangement for paying her - that in the irterim ’
we would pay all expenses involved in her travel and activities performed at our :

direction - in aldition we give her occasional spot payments for information
received. A nonthly retainer was discussed a approxinately
$50.00 a month - since she has no constant source of income. “However, since she
will be on a salary with BARVES, it weuld appear advisable to hold this anount
against her future needs. :

. . wH/L/C1/2686

'
Jean Pierson t
;
'
