 

ae SEUREL

1. <A reliable source reported in June 1971 that Willem

Leonard OLTIANS, a Dutch journalist who travels regularly to

the United States to produce television commentaries,’ claimed
that he had been “invited by the "National Security Council of
the. United States” to discuss (presumably in Washington)
Southeast Asian affairs, The alleged invitation was extended
by "Yr. Kissinger's assistant named Mitchell."
2. On 18. August 1971 the source reported that OLTMANS .
had received a letter from "Mr.. Holdridge, 'Chief of State.

for Asia and assistant to Mr. Kissinger'” as a result of which

“OL TANS expects to meet with Mr. Holdridge in ‘Washington on

6 or 7 September 1971. “It is assumed that "Mr. Holdridge" is

“identical with ur. John M.. Holdridge, Chief, Asia on the white

House Staff.

3. _ For your information we have attached background
information on OLTMANS who we believe should be considered an
unpredictable if not unscrupulous individual who might well
exploit his connection with the White House to his own personal
advantage without respect to the confidence expressed in hin,

4. We would appreciate an indication of the background

between Mr, Holdridge's correspondence with OLTMANS.

 

 
 

j4-40448-10102)" ;

 

  
     

So attached was written by
& . E/BNL, -and-given to Mr. 2 ater,
: essup, MPS cs/sco, who gave it to Mr

“Foldridge on 2h. Aigust 4

      

  

 

 

 
poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary. Dutch correspondents ~

in all Communist countries including Cuba.

NAME: Willem Leonard OL'TMANS
DPOB: 10 June 1925 in Huizen, The Netherlands
EDUCATION: Studied at Yale in 1950 but was expelled for
unstated misbehavior.
a. Worked briefly as correspondent for UP and for Dutch
paper De Telegraaf but dismissed by both for uns tated : cause.
b.° An FBI report of 1960 states that he calls himself
anti-Communist but expresses the views "of a great admirer of
Communism. " : eS
c. In 1961 a fairly reliable source listed him as a UN

correspondent then planning an unsponsored trip to East Germany,
j

 

said that they. had yet to see a story written by him. When he

applied for membership in the UN correspondents association, he

was unable to produce a single clipping in support of the

application. He travels extensively. He has excellent contacts

dad, The Haagse Post of 15 April 1961, with a nationwide

readership, characterized OLTMANS as an intimate friend of the

then President of Indonesia, Sukarno, and as having tried for

five years to arrange contacts for Sukarno in Holland.

e, An FBI report of 24 November 1961 restates the

 

‘above and adds that he had been separated or divorced from his

American wife 18 months earlier because "he is not a man." He

was living with a male at the time of the report,

SECRET
 

Eg ep € SECRET C

“Amsterdam, She said that -OLTMANS is at least intellectually a

f. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 includes an interview
with the ex-wife Frieda Bieling (she had remarried). She said
that her ex-husband and President Sukarno were close friends and
that he wrote to Sukarno at least once a week throughout their
marriage. ‘Around 1957 she and OLTMANS lived at the Paramount
Hotel, New York, fora time. The Indonesian government’ ‘paid their
bill, which ‘was more ‘than $300. She met Sukarno through her
husband in May "1959 in Copenhagen. Her father, she said, “learned

that OLTMANS had a police record for molesting young boys: in

|
|

Communist and believes Communism to be the economic system of
the future. | ;

: z. A sailing ine reported in 1966 that OLTMANS wrote
pro-Lumumba: articles in 1960, visited Cuba in 1962 and perhaps
1963, developed ‘friendly relations with Chicoms at The Hague and
may have visited China in 1964....In August 1966 he applied for a.
Chicom visa at The Hague, . .

ooh, An FBI report of 12 May 1967 says that OLTMANS claimed

‘to have written for Ramparts an article about CIA in Indonesia.

No such article has been found,

SECRET "0.

 
