 

reo

   

F ead

- wiles

SECRET
~Z-

D. ghouwld be examined together with all the ‘other
available reports so that we may _
(1) clarify our own objectives and wishes with
respect to al] the AMLASH group (and this includes
AMWHIP); _

(2) sort out which people, if any, are worth our
time in the future;

(3) take appropriate meaaures, including inter-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and
then, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not wortbwhile; _

(4) tighten up our own operational and security
procedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

3. Preliminary Analysis: Ag pointed out in a prelininary
eanalysia of the MLAS complex, made in March 1965 when I. vaa
preparing for travel] to Madrid in connection with the QUHOPS-1
case: “...There 18 no convincing evidence that the group 1s
working either for or against the regire of Fidel CASSRO.
Reports om their contacts with us and their discussiona among
themselves are at variance. In 1962 F.del CASTRO, reportedly
knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLABR-1
and seven members of hig group to enlist their eupport against
Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde and the communiats in Cuba. Possibly
they are playing both ends against the middle. They certainly
have been and are in contact with the two ends." The following
comments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA: - .

4. The AMLASH conspiracy ~ As detailed by 3716
(CIR 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-1 reporting on a wee ing
ef the AMLASH group, including AMWHIP-1 mentioned the following
significant points: :

 

KUBARK was criticized for "fooling around for

q)
years" without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

' (2) the group was to be prepared to denounce
ODYOKE as responsible if the operation fails and believed that

‘1 the resulting scandal would make the Bay of Piga seem insigni-
:|, Siecant; and . .
1

: (3) AMLASH-3 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence
es established by coded messages which he exhibited. :

 

pe reported by 1532 (IN 82939) on @ June 1965, based on

meetings with ESPINOSA, the problem seen by[" Jas that

SECRET

a | "

 

wee
 

104-10216-10447

 

ro . . : - naw i, el, a |
fee. * ty,

3
i MEMORANDUM YOR: Chief, WHD for Cubs .
i SUBJECT 3 Espinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Begardiess of accuracy, they

A. present a problem because of their having been
presented to other government agencies;

8. in view of matters touching on U.8. security,

are delicate and could have unfavorable repercussions
if repeated to newsnen by the complainant or his
@asgociates (whoge independent, previous threats were
of greater potential embarrassment);

Cc. affect t ations and the security of our
personnel ath ang |

Action: In view of the foregoing, the allegations

ee eet

4. should be put in proper perspective - i.e., not
ignored because of the potential embarrassment but
considered in the light of what we already know .
(Alsert all of them are repetitions of previous

charges fi reports, known well to both the
emerson s+ Od Paria stations and to Headquarters offi woe
concerned with the AMLASH group, whose members’
reliability, reputations and goo are question~
able. Two of the charges - about) and “Tota”
and about AMWHIP-1 and CARRILLO ~ are tew.);

 

seemtnst ie cdteaiesa kbar haRataihabeen ANAM eng ae ones Rien npn gate nee eb
r]
.

 

|

:

B. should be treated so as to protect us against any :
charge of laxity and so as to establish the facts but, —
at the same time, treated so as to avoid attributing — j
'

i

|

!

{

|

{

|

ee
fi
'

to them more importance than they deserve;

Cc. should be kept in mind as examples of other
eharges which may betandied about and reported by the
AMLASH group to other governmental agencies or to
other governnents or to news media (In the last
connection recall the implied threat of publishing

— responsibility, as reported previously by

716,IN 38634.);

P -

 

scaemeeneeieestnimnll pemninienimahanear minimal

Seehet

a pettenan rennet itt a ae a acne ena a manent we mmm
 

 

 

“the AMLASH circle is wide and each new friend of whom wo learn
geems to have knowledge of the plan." I believe that the
problem ig a more serious and basic one. As indicated in
paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fide} CASTRO himself
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group was plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its support. Hence we
cannot rule out the possibility of provocation. Assassination,
obviously, is a dangerous gime, not merely to the plotters in
@ physical sense, but to a sponsoring government which may

- suffer severe political repercussions at home and abroad if ite
involvement is made known. In the instant case, the risks of
exposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high, whether there ig
@ provocation or not. Considering the individuals who are
involved directly, their contacts with KUBARK officers,and their
reported plan to expose ODYOKE, persisting in the plan could
be highly embarrassing to KUBARK. (This is even more the case
now that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and ODURGE, although
fortunately the tenor of hia complaint was that KUBARK had not
given adequate support to the plan.)

. B. The contacts at Paris and the matter@ affecting
the 8tation.- The "recruitment" of Maureen had been the

subject of an exchange of cables between and Headquarters
and of discussions at Headquarcers between and WE (See

$1071 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in

this connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about it to
ODENVY and ODURGE and the danger that, if he is indiscreet,

hie story about this (and the other matters) could reach some
‘curious newepaperman. (In this connection, it appears that the
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch with the AMLASH
group was made without the knowledge of STOCKAOOD.) ESPINOSA .-
did not report any criticiam of the KUBARKers at| but it
is evident that the AMLASH group knows more abou em than

we might wish. What ig new and of concern from ESPINOSA about
matters in Paris is his story of AMWHIP 1 and UNSNAFD-19
dealings. The questions raised about AMWHIP-1 are of mutual
concern giso to Headquarters which has been running him and
Cprevrete ict he has visited often. (On the occasion of my

ous trip to Hadrid om the QUHOPS-] case, GROWYERY had voiced

his doubts about the whole group and specifically about AMWHIP-1 .
and hia connection with UNSNAFU-19.) At issue are two basic
points, the knowledge on the part.of UNSNAFU-19 about KUBARE's
connection with AMWHIP-1 and the charge that AMWHIP-1 has been
defrauding KUBARK in the jewelry transaction. Also to be kept
in mind is the fact that ODENVY has an office in Paris which
well might have been informed of the allegations and which might
have been asked for comments ~- although ODENVY policy always
bas been to stay away from any investigation of other government
agencies unless specifically directed by the Attorney General
to investigate. .

 

sett gt 8h

ray

ogeeRET

serve ninnyed winese yee Setnetmmtemammene Se Re a ee en gute oo
14-00000

 

- ~ see md
- Lo sabe
; sient ;
i -4- '
i \
‘ :
\ . ;
. Criticism of a - Criticism of
the Station by the A group 18 not new. AMIASH-2 ,
and were in and wanted direct contact, but the ‘
Station has Feu ations about seeing them. The Station has
been involved indirectly because of reporting by its sources
about and involvement of Station targets with both the
and operations (both ,ed from Headquarters). i

—~-- (Bee 2982 (IN 72258) and 2998 (iN 73084) (both RYBAT).}) ——<;
Meetings among QUBPORT, QUSWIFY-1, AMWHIP-1 and AMLASH figures {
oduced conflicting reports which previously were discussed at :
and at Headquarters. Insofar as GROWERY himself ia i
~ ed, it must be kept im mind that he is @ natural target

on whom the AMLASH group would be inclined to focus ita con-

—- plaints. With regard to the specific complaint about "Tota",
r : GROWERY has identified her as QUSWIFT-7 and has reported that

no staffer from the Station ever had contact with her.

i

—

:

:

:

‘
. .

: +
.

cnn a heats AA a

4. Further involvement of ESPINOSA: On 10 June ODENVY
notified KUBARE at New Yora chat AULASH-2 had telephoned
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
proper people” - i.e., responsible KUBARK representatives ~ and
to request notice of the resulting arrangements.

|
6S. AMWHEP-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week -
to obtain PRO information and to obtain clarification of the
roles played by those involved with him in the AMLASH operation.
a His dealings with UNSNAFU-19 algo will be covered. Following oo
| . this, an LCFLUITTER examination is planned. This may help to
j determine whether he has been. truthful in his reporting.
|

Harold F. Swengon
WH/C/BP

 

fee
SECRET

 

Ngee ee cen 2 ie meen enn ci ma RE ESE

 

a
a
