 

 

 

 

 

siete Ant patentee awe oe”

peat ate

),

   

. Kemo No. 151
Xe. Chapin 22 Jone 1957

Atteché
Cuban Govarn-ent rerchise of Fehieles

Tne follovinr infor-ction hae Leen received from a Controlled
A@euriean Source in enarua, Micare:uas

 

On F dune 3657 Irving}: oD acul, purchesing a cent fr Sle. verve
in beshingtony—tetd tho Kcrical Antesancor to "iearecus

thet the hosiresugn © vermont hes -sde @ oure’.see frou the
lereels Covernrent for sobivory curing the wees of 1 Jure

to iteararua on bua cmenie sine, Incleded in tho ;.7Tchose
sre G3 steplound rrr d Sourewiesled vericles counting tired
s thine suns ind one s*: 4) cannon sia belding five ren, the
u.an Ceverient hus in turn lourht from the lMewscan
Covermmeny, 26 of t.cse veiicles and is to Bend a toat to
Corinto to take deliver7.

@ot Leral, Arey, iinval, Air ittucnés .

dol Py- ener
Distributionr
42 @ Washington
1 - Addressee

1 = Legal and Service Attachéa
2 @ Files .

_ SoURCES MANA 23bL
32 June 1957 ; — . :

       

 
 

ag ,
fe: ens Os Ce ad
7 ; > on a = . a
yo . SECRET |
“Kao Hoe US
Yre Chapin . 6 June 3957

Attaché
Cubans in Costa Rica

The foLlowiny
fouree in fen Jab, Costa Ricat

 

ad Withtn the past two weels apprexinatcly LS Cubons beave clandostinely
entered “osta Rica via LATA, trav-line from tha Domintcen few Lis
to Miami to costa liles, This ie .30 result of an erreemant batwoen
Praa dent JATISTA and Trejille to rneve fuban eatles fron the
Deatiniean Pepstlte. These (nfividuels are olenning to reve soon te
Moxieo in order to be ready to move on Cube Af and when  ATISTA

be ins to torples

Bvaluationt Pe}
ee, Local, Aruy, Naval, Air attoch4e

Distribution:
} Chapin, Babsssy .
2 - Lepad and Servie Attechhs “2+ Washington 2 - Files

Source: SANJ 2615 ;

‘oPR/afa . ; 0

6 dens 1957 C.
re ae

wh

   

 

Eee gnats DH.

i

inforsation has been race‘ved frea @ Controlled Anorican

cn

eRe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ave tle
 

10216-10084

'

 

 

a3 sane 'ts57 se aby . oo

ay oe 4

 

 

 
   

  
   
   
    
  
   
 

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATH

TO Chief, WHD

aod
4
FROM: Chief of Station, Habana se

SUBJECT: eoana— Liaison

 

setarx-- Memoranda Furnished to the Eabassy

References HKH-A-3662, 6 June 1957
Attached in suplicate are the foliowing memoranda which vere furnished {
to the Embaasyt
Hemp No. 119, 6 June 1957 = Cubans in Costa Rica
Nemo Ne. 150, 7 June 1957 - Conversation with Guillermo PLT
Memo No. 251, 12 Jane 1957 = Cuban Government Purchase of Vehicles

Log A Pinney
Melissa F. torency

Attachsents
3 = Hemos in duplicate

Distribution:
3 © Washington w/atts

2+ Files w/o atts : wd w

"fe

RI COPY

sinus S1-28A

e a
; :
t

   

 

 

  
 

  

,
tet ee,

mom.

 

Yeao Ho. 150
7 dune 1957 ‘

 

Mire Chapin Og abe
Attaché iby o ae
oh Py pee

Conversation with Mtlierme LT

 

2. On © Sure 1957 Culllerno Wit, lewyer and ferner Arhaosaccr to the
United States, called at tue Labassy in connection with another natter ord
fumished the follexine {nfernation:

& His Asroctation wit the TETs De ctmes

 

No aen wan {a the eine hearttal alnest a yeor vith the
PATIOTA, It was costing hin svoroxinately £3 a day and rrs, MAY » who hed
alvays been friendly with his atlo, atated that eh vend Jie to tae care of
the hospital exernes of the toy, bub tha [7.TS refused to @oceps her efler,

 

 

Forrtioe Later, Mrs, SATESTA anlled hig wie froalsu Yor ststine
that the ond the Prentdent sould itke te have hia ant aa Ansar saderent -Lar-a,
fie felt oowelled to secent thts oest althe:ch the salary aswents to very iittle
fere than hés pensten, watch he eernot reeeive Wille actively esnleve’, The
princt sal aivanta‘e of tats pestiton fa a ei lowntis pegsrort itech allews hia
to travel freely in connection with hia law bustneess ie vould Ute te renten,
but @ ietier at thts tins, Plesct 41) health or presmire of bucine Sg wonhd
net bea convincinr. tie has actually tried Lo withtra: from hin as-ceftton with :
RATISTA, having refused Matater cf state CYT’ ae request te eall er the Preatdeng .
folicwin; the Serch Lith attack on the sulaces ard has refised trettatters te the
WIDCR’a dinner and the 2th of Kay dimer beta fn hener et the President. le
Gengiders ‘ATISTA hie friend sinze he has been very kind to hia, bit he el seacress
with hia pelttinally and waits to disasicctate Ninwelf from PATISTA,

 

 

 

  

oe chant neki at

be Comeral Polittaats ”

PILT has not been envared in pol{tica for seantiv~e, hit he atfh) erintetag
hie elese asscctation with GFAI. jie feclo that Guba will have choog 4 RATISTA
felle cz if he stave tn until the electicns, In his ertnicr, ¢ ere are dnéfentteng
* “that a dects‘en is tainent within the wilitary es te wiether they will stick wtth
BATICTA or insist that he step dom. The resentment in the Cuhsn wllitary ersings
the entire TAIT ILLA faally ia treaandeus me this attitede by key etlitery ren
undeibtecdly veakens DATISTA’s ellitury euppers, TTITA hfaself hr ro ht ch rerard
for Ceneral TAP NILIA and often teases hin and scares iif= te death eheut thinrs he
has cr has not dene; but TADFESILLA has deen, and #411 centinse to he, conpletely .
Loyal,
. RYLT elaine that it vas be who introtuosd Anér®TSV“E70 del Ferales to
BATISTA and recorended his initially for a pest in the Pregidency. They revain
@loge {ricnds, althcurh he hag not seen DOIN since the lattcr asked hin
incredibly if he really believed that Herbert Lb, YATH'S had beon in the Sierra
Keestrs mountains,

 
 

Pe EAL J9-2~A-SHs
4 .. 7 “4 ; .

      

ar ro
&
4
wis
 

 

 

 

ny
ca
4
et
3
is

 

ge

Caer t:

ve Z Sans nag

 

fe Mee ate | She

te

 

 

  

. Tro FO. 1D, Pare 2
; T dune 1957"

 

BLT fs atsn a elese frien ef fory rf Prine Mintoter) Jorpess “Arca Y
Fontes end hag eroreserd to hq Ata ceneern about the prasent carcerins trend :
Of the PATIO Ceverment, Me has ercued vith hi-velr whether ha st.oul4 eo to
the Presterss hl-sele to empress bie concerns althouch he ie inclined to believe . .
that 1t would do no coods . . , ee .

PLT feels that wtthin a short tine he will be conpellod, as his ra
patriotic duty, to Feentar the polittcal scene, ie

Oe Fidel C9377" ue

TLE was a detesate to the Yoretpn Wintaters® Conference fn Porte 4n ped
Aerf2 19h ind wig respenaitle for hovtas

rotten a safe eomluct for Meek cist
and several otuer Cutans to leave Colenvta,

 

t
Fidel CAST, even thovoh he may hays been, acquitted, 48 wall tnevn te -
have been respcrs thle fer the death ef hanobeee, Avepets °O was in Poreta :
fn conection with o Biudenta’ concress,

  

In Sita optrten, there ds no evidence to Intteste CALTAD de oC

cmunists
and he knows thet Cactin dty not actt

vely partictonte in the death of Calis,
Follewing the Laster 5 ascancincttons, Mel CAST Wd Soin tn the revolutionary
mevementy aid le Rearned, after having oMained tho aa"e ern tet for COI’, thee
ChSViG had keg aeveral people durtnre the Seretaze, Inel-tine gone priests, He
@eee not tacw shetive he WAlnd two or six priests, tut he wood Reb heave gotten
& ee conduct fer hin had he knewn phat he subseqicntly found cabs

Pidel Casitc renrasente the ideale
Unter), ond tt verld be

better for ali Concerned {f he {s Wied, even theurh in sich event he would ¢o
dow fn history as mother rartyr like dt,

     
 

|e Leseult_on the Prestéentt al Palaces 13 Derek sy

 

4
5
Fror his offtce, 2-17 witnessed the entire atiaty. The principal :
seticn wa over in 15 airates, but polfce and mMftary ovtatde the “elace Tres !
lenred the acticn fer sore than en our by sheotine at elles frtes ant other
buildings fcr the chery cf havine participated in the defense of the Palsce. 4
“wd
Distributions ~~ ° a
1 @ Embassy “a
“2~ bashincton ; 4
2 © Piles \ ;
a Of local interest, Ro cdjection te
. th
SFR/ pea t- @asenination,
