 

 

 

RB vege eae yea af asi tered ‘to LOFPAT O3 tox
placement tw target “area. .

 

i) acre ee WernaP featetled by LITEAT ssacte end
imataad ; for apd: fears ) LIVEAT WI baxctuvse
wet pegs ive rasuits.

¢ LP. testa, caeducted vith revised neries .

 

 

24 waren Led
Aine sonoew tions sith acwitive resulta.

. G13 Apri 19033 Design aad construction of LP. equipement .

LIFSAT Vi bacchouse. : :

ERTRA®, altheugs erent From roga fo mpi, rene ined ta alece within
the tartet area. iseusa dae we suet of the fise, Furing savewle c
R67 MAY was revactuated Crum a eeceud LIVAAT basengume Rnewn ag
Barshoure CARP TS. ,

 

:
t
i
i
|

a V6 Roest 1863: Installection of LP equipweat in
t
i

B. Wes pasta warveilianve ef PREAH TPRLIOR waa put teto effect,
easing beehouse ALTER (LYERGOS Gase) at the nates Gime teat METAAP cas
actueted. Tris pasta coversys, the Ravehoies, PNATLAN TREN and the
attivity fer which the evrpytcaye wea first setharicad have alk bees”
dévatifies aa L yan Obimh BBS” created eanciderabie can tw hom Bere as

+
i Beadqed stera,

: &. sover: af ta seanty Hoadavarter'a records th feiloviag
operations bias vliltised Toe baron age test tia target:

 

 

 
    

4 a, PRE “rysar Vi oo
| db. LICka oo Heatheuses ABLE amd mezs|
al . LIFEAT/LIERODR © LUSZAT VI :

: a . .

i a, “RA LUYFAT Vi, Baceboune

; : BAlsB,. fusebouse CHAn'.

i @. From) Rarchovas SAAR

3 Head. vectors qua the kagregeios ¢aet the pe tacigad t shay ¢

i Sok ute: te {it oummewaloan Of METS? aclividy rest YeuA? Fi, vere
: waeit aan the siveroy of th

: Spe po«alcak aetaricrsaiom of toa hornet ¢
; basehose beerock. The current JbRa7 Proiows Ogteine isaies bes stat
4.4 > pepene 36 sei List 11 wee olsuimang @ atooree wed vary tanslnatad
ee et SS syst ake TOT Fosdcet.csce welypee orp re ee toe eee
BE ETEERT FEL sat Ree wectecs aariina Jace wood mater OhPE Clad fhe net
rovgat fess Diseat sa imace of ef roe sath
pages ES es tre waupitwe efeates Ciel wee
Pe METER TG gente bet ston at 4 ‘Owe oh
fee Pte Lc alae aha

 

 

  
  

cicwye
leah. oe Bnet cue Baot,
Oni ire ee oe Oe rete
taney bars meear sae

 

     
  

wee Tgedete Ha Lo.tat ata.
Deb tia @ard ae tet Tie
BAT APT aa
thas attiew it tea Inca Bla nod

 

   

 

    

a eras
 

 

104-10189-10031

 

 

|
Z ce Shee. Wt Diviatea Sd

“CHAS Wate Fa”

 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

  

ER

 

‘Lives /Armore. Contwatan tn tea of Cry ptonyen . we ee

ayrrennecey

 

as ‘The: Statton' a ase, of. certain ctyptenyes identifying technical
operat ios aga t PERUMEYN TPELID® tn Mexi¢co has caused ceafusion ia
fead.uartera velensats. wespaseible for sourcing and dtesenination ef —
‘ Iafuraetion .produced,. and. for Sepporting the entire couples of
operations itectf£, The cryptocyes in queetion are (2) LUPERT

(be) LIYEODZ (c) EEYEAP (d) LICOOL/11 aad (eo) PRIRPLLSE. The Orijinal
weining ‘of these. cry ptonyns.. is daing Lorwarded under separs te cover,

 

2. The purpose of this dispaten am to stbrit tor station come nt
@ reviey of the technical cpsrational effort against PaQUREN FPL IS
since its inceptiun., The objectives are (1) to complete Readquoriars
recorts shich laca eousiderable detail cenderning too tatriesciss of |
tre operation, (2) to urge a more precine use of aryptonyes ia : i
pevarting this sctt¢ity which wucld benefit Weadiuartera germonvel - ;
Per;onaible fou moniter iag and supporting these vperaticam® and (2) te ;

contusion wee lowed in” this diagatcr.

‘S$. Tre initial effort agains} the target wae ‘PRLEPULSR. Ti wan
Antredeced date the target velag LIPLAT saasetm and wae actuated fron
‘¢he LIFEAT VI segehouse. This is mentiensd only to cengleta the
and deez net porinia te the intent of this discussica. Preparly
_ Bpeaking the initial offert decins with the actiention of LIFcat/
LINGDE is Fesruary 1953, ag indicated im Sid 12358. Gubcequent iy ;
_ @ight (8) LICWOL atteagts were. wade during 1060-106) against the ssiwe |

”

target. The LICUiia verve meaitoresi Prom a mobile LO (nee LIPraN?
Basebovso ARLZ. and Daeshouse BAKIA, aod the lalter cane to bs res forred
te am the LIYZ00" too. Tho seat produstive operation of thia sest
geome te bave bera LIVOGS1L, aqtivated on 9 tay 1358, accerding 17
MEZI 3684, dated 25 Mey Y850, Accordiag ta eur recove be Last LK
eenged functiaaiag auriag late 1961. Plesse coefirn.
H
i
!
}
4
t

Attachrent ~ u/2/e

Distr tiv tion
O%® 1 ~ COE, Mexico City o/att

borane Sree AN meee _ a tate

  

Bugrest a2 fev eduinistrative edjustments waick would cispel the present

   

 
 

Livear foers.s 7 terkatent ditfievittes mado thts imwacivie,

wi eorrss ast merle incinged waeiee LITKAT

  

therefure tras tke #:

Project. Kuen <UiyAy wee re-ectusted in Kevesber 1603 and 2a stated
abote,” the Ltatlor atilived aeothur LIFZAT baschoume, alse called

bagiohoutie CHARLIS, Gltaateu abprusisately aix wiles fron target.

Flere eentirn th secwrecy ef the futegoing and mupaiouset i¢ Ry
isforming Headiuartera the baxebewsen amt reapers tavelved aed the -

. operations ‘they Ore currently. moniter tag.

oe ™ Heacjearters recusrts ‘Station's counts on the tellowing

svtuentione:
‘A. Photogrenkic coverare., That a suparate project be
Prepared to ‘inciwa LYP 20022 and 23. The project sheuld
cover theif aalacies, bageboure Feat, amd equipment <«
_OxpCnmes, Sa arrocgerent winting to LITABRY aad LIDOOTROT.
Thin sativity, identified vita a mw orypteayw would .
el iainate ‘further contneton when dlacugsing photographic
eaverace of PERISGH TIKLINE,

e.. LIcoat., Ready varterms is act aware of any LICL
rregertly operat tw.

 

at tnet time whether a nee mrojedt {3 mocegeary er whethog
At. Gan adeyuetely ta covered enaer LIF7AT, depending oa
the asvexte being uti bined aa the sgermaiiew,

(@, LTFROOR. Yhe otighval fotent of this ervetosya ia.
eeuarets eerer 8 cteabeeot apd the eetivity

@
haw bres assigned file nuaber §0-8~32/6 te the egeration
utilines LIV"AT seats, it te augeésted. that tt-romin .

under LYV"SY Prefect and be identified a3 SISKAT/LIZRUN da
/ All correspondecor. Please tniora Deadqusrters of the gamete

presently ceed for LIVSAT/LIFBOSS coverage.

3. SETPAP, UTRICT wnld ‘profer the Staties mst use thin

evyolcnye in geporting tale particulss type of ecorerags.
is geggeuted thst 4 ev eryptauye, ia the LI series, ie

utilized te rsference thts activity. Tho precen! cryptioays

Pefer® te a tenhaicue wkick dasorogressed Rren the
developavatal anto the operational stage and choald wers

aoprapriately be identified with s regular Statios cry ptouya.

if tute operation ia beidg verzed by LIPEAT aaaeis, ree
it wight be identified with a dual exypronym, LIFSAT/L. “a
mgenarcate file ausher, yithia the LIYRST seriew, can te
assipred to coges “METTAP if tac Utation poceesis 42, at

if Goes not seen avesacacy gincs ether LIVZAT targets so mot

have etparate file nisstort Ss wmithes,

 

@. Carers
eeennleal opirai lo - i, BETEAY, LIS, PUTTG «

directed pysingi PUSTRA ‘epeLibe ean ba Frio aad

 

2 a i eh a odd

CLIVER 0, GALBOD

 

7 aaeere cate

 

if ay are costenplatad, CSY-13-4, 87
Pebruary 2903, mesutree special Meadquarters approval peler
to any astios tines. If euceeenful, a dectsiva cen be ands

“(f the Rtation powlers, abi” ‘

ca en

aes , Sdriaintsres wader one prejuet. Soe te

Seer me ae is herbie nein, geen ee

i
:

 

3 onnemens

 
 

 

 

 

 

C8YPTONTR B

 

CRYPrONTy Cc

CRYPTOKTH 1
curpronry £

 

se

ATTACEMENT TC
_Hess 12434

Used to identify Station's unilateral telephone
tape. ce

Aseigned on 21 February 1959, to identify the

“tation's unllaters! telepbone tep of the
PURNUWEN TPELIDE in Mexico City. (See :
MEXY 33832, February 21, 1959) +

Identifies the technical nemenclsture uf a ~
hot mike tolepheng A/S inetallation, Details
of the aystes are contained in HMMA 20307. -

Concealed microphones,
Hot wike telephone.

 

 
