 

 

om,

om.

  
   
 
 

(=. wasntncton post sf
al MARCH 1977

   
  

 

“Task Anderson an dLes Whitte tten

: ‘Mobster’s |

Perhaps the most feared ‘mobster in Th cante’s blessing, Rosselli used the Ha:
«the underworld is. Florida’s Mafia ing the-federal government. by mur-. 7 Vania underworld to plot.Castro’s de-:
chieftain, Santos Trafficante. House in-, dering’ a., celebrated::witness unless” mise..The assassination squad tried to -
s-vestigators apprdached his Miami hide-.“:there ‘was some compelling reasons, piCaro's food. Castro the a
» awa efo: ith some apprehen: The-experts dou! ie ia in. Castro’ becam: q.

fon ee PP tailed to dié. Then underworld snipers }

ipset over, Rosselli’s confession that,
: hit ‘than for. the. Central Intelligen ‘were dispatched: to a-Havana rooftop."
‘Agency, he had: attempted: to’. assassi-. «Unhappily for them, they were caught.:,
nate Cuban, Premier. Fidel. Castro. The; Rosselli. told.us-the rest of.the story
‘y his own “ “speculation. ” But it was-his-
habit to-pass us:tips in the form of con-*
jecture. There is a good chance he was.
not merely’ speculating but: had picked:

 

 
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
     

 

     
  
  

    

   
 

      
   
   

     
      
  

‘|
ept-their-subpoena. “Shove it under
the door,” he said'softly. They peered
through the screen. The sinister Traffi
his hands:

         
   

     

  
 

     
 
  
 

   
  
  
 
 

tured the would-be assassins and had .
learned about! the* plot on: his life.. Te
:s: would: be the-sort;of jrony-that:Latine?
: ‘Americans - -appreciate,. Rosselli . sug-.
dropped. by. His associates; JAnowing:.:gested, for: Castro to:
his trust-in us, calléd.us ahead o of tl :

 
 
  

 
  

 
 
 
 
 

  

Gastro: may~have ‘used these. under=-J
“world elements,-most.of them Cubans;
from the old Trafficante organization; §

    
       

fh Twel be! ‘d :
sell’ dined ‘with Traffieante at the fash:
‘ionable, Landings: Restaurant ‘ii Fort

“Lauderdale, -Fla. Itisthe.custom of thi

. Matia ‘to. wine-and.dine“a- waywar

  
  
 

They may have lined up Lee Harvey. ;
Oswald as the assassin or may ‘have
used him-as a decoy’ while others am: ;

   

     

    

OGC Suny, flresmixtions - Roselli, Johnny (not indexed)
74-0000

 

a (

Our letter to the Attorney General of 14 October 1976
forwarded all information from Agency files responsive to
these questions which we judged could be forwarded to the
Dade County police without jeopardizing sources or methods,

rovided the Attorney General found that the Agency could
legally do so. A second point, also to follow from the
Attorney General's findings was that, even if such informa-
tion could legally be provided, a determination would have

to be made within the Agency whether some of the requested
information which related to former or current agents of the
Agency might still require protection. Your marginal comment
asks whether we are not straining the concept of protection
of sources when we protect those who are not now intelligence
sources and whether we are protecting them from prosecution
for terrorist activity today.

After referent memorandum was sent to you, the Attorney
General refined an earlier opinion from former Assistant
Attorney General Antonin Scalia. The Department of Justice
now concludes that, to the extent Agency information either
does not involve U.S. persons or falls within one of seven
exceptions to the general prohibition against collection of.
information concerning the domestic activities of U.S. persons,
such information can be provided to local police authorities.
It is significant, however, that the Attorney General in his
23 March letter to you (Attachment B) expressly included the
following language:

In addition to the facts above, the Office of
Legal Counsel has pointed out that Executive Order
11905 does not require CIA to respond to Dade County.
Indeed, the responsibility of the Director of Central
Intelligence to protect sources and methods of intelli-

gence, established by statute, 50 U.S.C. #403(g),
and E.O. 11905, Section 3(d) (vii), is authority for
him to withhold such information from local law
enforcement officials if he believes its disclosure
would threaten the security of intelligence sources
or methods. (Emphasis added)

 

In the light of the Attorney General's opinion, those
of fies holding the relevant files are now reviewing them to
confirm that the information originally selected for passage
to Dade County law enforcement officials is responsive and
complete.
 

 

t~
fi
i
|
i
|
|
|
4
i.
r
i

iw

 

i . . 5 eh 7 { , {
i353. Caneral Questions: : ; 7 Qe

i. alveady answered ;

Lie "Bai" is Manuel Artime and the anti-Castro ‘group is the MRR

dii.- vi. answered

“vil. The Miami Station “(JMWAVE) was established in T961 not 1960, Robert k
Davis served as COS from October 1961 to February 1962, He is now retired,
Thecdore Shackley served as COS from April 1962 to June 1965. John Dinner
(retired) served as COS from June 1965 to March 1967. We would prefer that
(Dade County police not talk with the COS'S, We do not know what they could

possibly add that the police and FBI don't already know.

will, We do not desire to have the Dade County police talk with the currer

   
 

 
  
 

The has: not had contact with the Cuban ‘exile

  

igroup £or several years. The is considered to be a foreign instali-

| .
lation concentrating on the collection of intelligence in the Caribbean area

i

  

iwhere there is no US representation and has no charter for domestic activil:
i : |

|The curren as been there less than a year

 

 

ix. already answered

x, This is a matter of internal security which should be addressed ta the

    

Rosia j weeded
74-0000

 

5 April 1977

SUBJECT: Intelligence Sources and Methods -

1. The principle of protection dad intelligence sources and
methods is central to the viability of clandestine operations. The
inability to protect intelligence sources and methods will be de-
structive of the credibility of the Agency in dealing. with its
clandestine assets, and in dealing with intelligence services around
the world to whom our security is already a matter of grave concern.

2. The tragedy.of Cuba won the support of the United States
Government for the programs to free that country from its dictatorship.
It was the sense of..the American people and of the United States Govern-
ment, in both the executive and legislative branches, to find-a way to
oust the Castro regime. Nowever badly conceived different parts of the

Program, and whatever the chances of success, the fact is that the

. ultimate objectives met the highest standards of American. ideals.

3.. There were a lot of Cubans who worked with the Americans -to

‘free Cuba. They carried their plans to desperate extremes, risking

their lives at the Bay of Pigs and in hundreds of smaller incursions.
Some were associated with scheming to assassinate Castro himself. Some
did this on their own as. patriots and some, also as. patriots, did it
with the support of representatives of the United States Government.
Right or wrong the identity of those people constitute a trust of the
American Government. If betrayed it would be a breach of honor and a
demonstration to our allies taday, and to those individuals around the
world who work with us, that they must review the risk they take in our
association. ; . . ;

4. The protection of intelligence sources is more than a dry Tegal
parase. IL Tuvulves a mural commitment to protect tnose who agree to
work with us. This is an essential principle to be observed by any
organization that expects to involve itself.in clandestine operations
of any sort. .
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

Ja Roenns cen cmpenrtnat on LemetFe- an received“donation of Seager aes

Cubsh Medical Association in exile “in February 1970 ha forined :
ee liberate Cuba and held rallies in different us. cities to collect funds?

   

oi DONESTEVED BA E Domingues

   

Born in Cuba went to Caracas, Venezuela in 1959 and entered US tn 152,
Operated the International Machinery Corporation in Hialeah, Florida, which
manufactured plastic boats, Made numerous, unauthorized, trips to Cuba co
leeegedly bring out relatives and political priseners. In 1965 he visited
‘Cuba and allegedly talked with Castro. In September 1967 he was issued
inotice of prevention of departure by INS. May 1968 an unexploded bomb found
‘at his business. July 1968 detained by INS and given deportation hearing.
iParoled and restricted to land area of Dade county in March 1969, In 1973
:pleaded guilty to extortion and put on probation. September 1974 he went to
jCuba and detained on return, Given two year jail sentence, In December 1975
given seven year imprisonment for prcbation violation. Very controversial
and many Cuban exites felt he was pro-Castro or even an agent of Casitre,
jHurdered on 13 April 1976 at his office, No Agency association.

i
i
{
|

 

Rolando MASFERRER Rojas

Former Cuben Senator who was considered ruthless. Arrived in US in Janna
1959 and over the years has engaged in a series of activities reiated to th

guatzethene of th, deentead pith Teen Aan
ovortnrow oF 2 CAgeys FOB Ame core: Gay anvosved Wala osc ac

we
fin toe TORRIENTE pian. As of 1972 sti considered himself to be
Isocialict, and had been virulent eritic of the U.S. in the past.
ia bomb in Miami on 31 October 1975. No Agency association.

 

Caentem wan dan Danan

 

   

 

wet A br

i
jJose de la TORRIENTE Ajuria

 
  
 

0

Porn in 1904 in Cubs. meee. ont zon Univ srsity of Kentucky in iS

      

 
  

 

 

jltaveled extensively iw Latin Aneriéa ghd Europe raising funds. in June 197°

the Miami press exposed him as president of a large housing development
enterprise and using funds he collected for personal use. Shot to death tn
his home in Hiami on 12 April 1974, Police investigation of death

Belige Fale m ceri wos solated to TODRTENTE IS eicaccrecvintiss of
eG Ante Io. ae paeee) relates ~ Masappreprascicn cf

hane ANS ciftteanl (Ta Qenhar 1070)

[isons DCL Helms directed the DDE ta establish & covert funading chauuei to

[ojeces financial support to the Cuban exile group headed by TORAIENTE

 

 

 

 

 

a fn @ Kanes

    

 

  

 

objective was to previde funds to assist this greup in carrying out
jon the Island of Cuba. A totai of $250,000, was authorized in FY i$7i and i
fer this purpose, A total of $226,000 was expended on this activity. There

 

_ {have geen no accustations or rumors that the funds originated with the Use

[with the Agency. Only one successful operation was mounted .¥

AUUT AIM ABT

 

RAM. A Ae water

 

Me eere

 

ares we ee

-
| No identifiable information on person with this birthdate. Require mote
linformation, or at the least, matronymic.

i

‘Joaquin Antonio CORTIZO- DOB: 10 January 1945

Nothing on person by this name

  

soewdeie

 

|
|
|
|
 

‘0d 10406-10019

FEVER VO GD
, Boezeiound Uco Cally
fpr rewmpenrennn nett ne ee ee ee mote — “Cor Rooiesuen

 

 

FORM NO. REPLACES FORM 36-8 : ”
(FEB 55 241 WHICH MAY BE USED. @

   
 

 

 

 
 

, : ; .
ee a - we ¢

a |  SEUn tue have QE
"peste NIEVES Mestre - ~ :

NIEVES was reportedly a Captain in the Rebel army under Osmani CIEN-

| FUEGOS and subsequently arrested by the DSE in January 1963 for political
ivessons, He was reieased from prison in 1965 through the intervention of
j bis brothar, a high Cuban official. NIEVES went to Madrid in April 1965
where he was introduced to a Cl4 officer. He came to the US in August 1965
j and was again contacted by a CIA officer. The relationship was unsatisfactor
;as NIEVES proved erratic and uncooperative and he provided fabricated
! information. In March 1966 ACSI (Army) indicated an interest in NIEVES and
i was given an assessment of NIEVES. Since the CIA no longer had an interest

in NIEVES, ACSI picked him and subsequentiy terminated him in March 1967,

 
74-00000

SECRET

 

 

      

  

sl Cciscuid pent

. L, vfs . € . Gr
Lo | *
ie "| Manuel ARTIME Baddéd Buesa

| : ARTIDE was one of the leaders of the Noviméanto de Recuperacion
Revoluconario CURR}, a democratic Catholic oriented anti-Batista reform
movement which allied itself with the Castro forces in overthrowing fatista.
ARTIME was de facto chief of the agricultural reform program in Oriente Prov~
ince after Batista's fall, ARTIME became disillusioned with Castro, departed
Cuba and became one of the leaders of the Bay of Pigs invasion ferce, He was
captured, imprisoned and returned in the prisoner exvhange in 1962, From June
' 1963 to April 1965, CIA supported ARTIME and the MRR operations against Cuba
which can be broadly characterized as harassment, sabotage and psychological
warfare at a cost of approximately $ seven million. Following that, CIA
supported psychological warfare operations such es radio broadcasts and the
puplication of an anti-Castro periodical. This continued until ARTiNE was ter
inated in January 1967. Since that time there has been no efficial CIA rei-
‘attionship with ARTIME although there have been occasional unofficial contacts
becween CIA officers and ARTIME, These contacts were not of operational sig~-
nificance, During the mid-east war ARTIME offered DCI Colby the use’ of himself
ang his men in any capacity that would assist the Agency. ARTINE was last repe
tesa _ ed) to be closely associated with Nicaraguan president, General Anastasio
s MOZA, in the export-import business. He is believed to be residing in Manage

Aw Rolando CUBELA Secades

CUBELA had been the second in command of the Directorio Revoluc~ -
donaric, an anti-Ratiste student orgablzation which was actively involved wit?
with Castro's forces in the overthrow of the Batista government, CUBELA sub-
senvently held the rank of Major in Castro's forces but became disillusioned
with Castro and communism. CUBELA was initially met in Mexico in March 1941
but the meeting was without operational significance, In 1962, foldowing
‘reports that Cubela was considering defecting, an attempt was made to determir

’ hip state of mind by utilizing a Cuban refubee who met @ub/ CUBELA*in Sean-
dinavia. CUBELA agreed to work in place for the creation of a new Cuba, In
October 1963, as a result of CUBELA'S demand to meet U.S. Astorney General,
nel eh F. Kennedy, Desomnd FitzGerald, Chief of Cuban Operations met with hii.

 

At| this meeting CUBELA stated that the most effective way te ¢éuid¥¢d rescue the

te escaccinate Pidel Castro and ather Cuben Laaderc |

    

CURELA waa tatd that the US was nrenered ta render ail necessary agsistan

to] any group which succeseded in noutralizing the Cuban leadership and aseaned

sufficient contrel to o in wite the the US to render assistance, In November 1963
CUSELA was ‘Teported to be losing interest if he dia not receive technical assi

_atpe from the US, FitzGerald authorized assistance in laying caches which
woliid include a high-power rifle w/scope, explosives and related equipment.
The caches were laid in March and June 1964, CUBELA recoveredthe first cache
inj December 1864 but it is not known if he recovered the second cache which

web ted. were Dl ta ree TAY

ele eho la SS Ao. goon le

 

  

ana AMRIMD Wank

ini Madrid in 1964 and ART LEE agreed to provide support for CUBELA‘S operations
ARTIME furnished CUBELA with a silencer and money in February 1965. In Feb-
ruary 1965 a CIA officer met with AK/ CUBELA for the last time and refused
CUBELA'S request for $10,000 to support his Gperations. (CIA prefdered to use
the ARTIMG channeid in-June i965 CIA cerminaced vue operucten because CULELA
was judged insecure. CUHELA was arrested by CASTRO in February 1966, tried in
March 1966 and convicted ef conspiring with the CIA and 42 S to assassinate
cas STRO. Ha was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment. He was re leased on parole
in| 1976 and is reportedly practicing medicine in Havana,

dogely B15 Oren She GeYcer oF (iS Sug/ve
AVERT CATION ty fAt Chutes Sevthk Scfeer Gini:

 

 

 

 

   
   

eka we
