13-00000

U.S. PRESIDENT’S COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES
WITHIN THE UNITED STATES: FILES RELATED TO THE
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

INTRODUCTION

President Gerald R. Ford created the Commission on CIA Activities within the
United States on January 4, 1975. He directed the Commission to determine
whether or not any domestic CIA activities exceeded the Agency’s statutory
authority and to make appropriate recommendations. He appointed Vice President
Nelson A. Rockefeller chairman of the Commission. (The Commission is often
referred to as the “Rockefeller Commission.") Other members were John T.
Connor, C. Dougias Dillon, Erwin N. Griswold, Lane Kirkland, Lyman L.
Lemnitzer, Ronald Reagan, and Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. David W. Belin, a former
staff member of the Warren Commission, was named Executive Director. Named
Senior Counsel were Harold A. Baker, Ernest Gellhorn, Robert B. Olsen, and
William W. Schwarzer. Counsel were Marvin L. Gray, Jr.; George A. Manfredi;
James N. Roethe; and James B. Weidner. Ronald J. Greene served as Special
Counsel. Staff members were R. Mason Cargill, Peter R. Clapper, and Timothy S.
Hardy.

The Commission looked into all aspects of CIA operations within the United
States. Its report, submitted to the President in June 1975, lists the following
significant areas of investigation: mail intercepts; Intelligence Community
coordination; "Operation CHAOS" (collecting information on dissidents); protection
of the Agency against threats of violence; other investigations by the Office of
Security; involvement of the CIA in improper activities for the White House
(including Watergate); domestic activities of the Directorate of Operations;
domestic activities of the Directorate of Science and Technology; CIA relationships

with other federal, state, and local agencies; indices and files on American citizens;

and allegations concerning the assassination of President Kennedy. The
Commission also looked into the legal authority of the CIA and its internal and
external controls.

One area on which the Commission collected evidence, but did not include in
its report, was the role of the CIA in assassination plots against foreign leaders.
The study focused on plots against Fidel Castro of Cuba, Rafael Trujillo of the
Dominican Republic, and Patrice Lumumba of the Congo. The Commission was
primarily interested in seeing if these plots involved any domestic illegal activities,
such as connections with organized crime, as had been alleged. The report states

-3-
13-00000

that the Commission did not have time to complete the study, so it was turning the
materials over to the White House.

The processed segment of this collection consists of materials identified as
being related to either the John Kennedy assassination or to plots against Castro.
The anti-Castro materials are included because of allegations that Castro or his
supporters were part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy as retribution.

THE INVESTIGATION OF THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

The Commission investigated allegations that the CIA was somehow involved in
the assassination of President Kennedy. Specifically, it looked into allegations that
E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis were CIA agents and were present in Dallas
(“the derelicts") at the time of the assassination and could have fired the alleged
shots from the grassy knoll. It also investigated claims that the CIA had
relationships with Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby.

The Commission heard testimony, taped interviews, took depositions, consulted
experts in forensic pathology and ballistics, examined photographic evidence, and
requested. documents from various intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The
Commission concluded that the findings of the Warren Commission regarding a
lone assassin were correct and that Hunt and Sturgis were not the derelicts. No
concrete evidence was presented to link Oswald or Ruby to the CIA; the
Commission concluded that the allegations were “farfetched speculation.”

DESCRIPTION OF PROCESSED FILES

These files contain two distinct types of material. I will refer to the first type
as Kennedy assassination materials and the second type as anti-Castro materials,
although both types were selected because of their possible connection to the
Kennedy assassination. :

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION MATERIALS: Most relate to the allegation __
that CLA operatives (possibly in the persons of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis)
fired shots from the "grassy knoll" in Dealey Plaza at the time of the Kennedy
shooting. Also considered was the allegation that Oswald and/or Jack Ruby had
connections with the CIA. Witnesses, many of whom were unsolicited, provided
testimony. and exhibits supporting or refuting those allegations. The findings of the
Warren Commission regarding Oswald as a lone assassin and the single-bullet
theory were considered through analysis of photographs and the Zapruder film,
examination of Kennedy autopsy materials by a panel of medical consultants, sworn
testimony, and examination of documents from the CIA and other agencies. A
copy of the Zapruder film, lent by Robert Groden, is in the collection.

-4-
13-00000

COPYRIGHT :
Works prepared by U.S. Government employees as part of their official duties
are in the public domain. In addition, Mr. Ford has donated to the United
States of America his copyright interest in any other of his writings that might
be included in this collection. The copyright interest to materials written by
other individuals or organizations is presumed to remain with them.

Prepared by: Karen Holzhausen
May 31, 1992
13-00000

Va ? Gerald R. Ford Library

"1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

 

U.S. PRESIDENT’S COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES
WITHIN THE UNITED STATES: ~
Files, [1947-1974] 1975

SUMMARY DESCRIPTION

The U.S. President’s Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States (also
known as the Rockefeller Commission) was charged with investigating allegations
of improper CIA activities within U.S. borders. The files consist of documents
created by the Commission in the course of its work (correspondence, testimony,
report drafts, etc.), as well as historical documents and exhibit items collected
during its investigation.

The portions of the file which are available for research (2.5 cubic feet) deal with
the investigation of possible CIA involvement in the assassination of President John
F. Kennedy or in anti-Castro plots of the early 1960s.

QUANTITY
41 cubic feet (ca. 82,000 pp.)

DONOR
Gerald R. Ford (Accession numbers 81-23 and 78-56)

ACCESS
Materials related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy or to anti-
Castro activities, 1960-64, have been processed for research. A significant
portion of this material is security classified and accessible only through
researcher-initiated declassification review. The bulk of the Commission files are
unprocessed.

A Presidential Library Adi rustered by the National Archives and Records Administration
13-00000

an \ Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

 

 

September 20, 1994

 

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Central Intelligence Agency

Center for the Study of Intelligence/HRG
402 Ames Building

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Harrelson:

I-am sending out to you today by registered mail the document
identification forms for all of the Kennedy assassination materials
identified in the Ford Library whose status was recorded as "postponed".
This includes forms for about 1,000 items. This package does not
include identification forms for the 400 items whose status is "opened".
Also enclosed is a list explaining the shorthand collection titles we used’
on the identification forms.

Karen Holzhausen and I produced forms for all of the materials we
identified, including all duplicates. In some cases there were two, three
or four copies of the same document located in different files. We’ve
developed a system to keep track of those duplicates which we can
explain to your people when they arrive.

Karen and I are very much looking forward to your visit this fall but we
have lots of questions about how the process will work. Will you know
which items have already been declassified elsewhere? Will you be able
to recognize and act on non-CIA originated documents which have been
acted on at other repositories? Will you have to see the originals of each
item which are scattered throughout our vault collections, or can you just
examine the copy set we created during the identification process? Is
there anything we could be doing to help prepare for your visit? Will
there be follow-up work for us to do after you leave?

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archives and Records Administration
13-00000

Finally, to help you with your planning, I enclose our transportation and
accommodations handout and, for your. information, a copy of the
finding aid to the Rockefeller Commission Files and a guide to the
Library’s complete holdings. We look forward to hearing from you after
you assess what kind of a job we have waiting for you here!

Sincerely,
lisa The
Leesa Tobin

Archivist
313/741-2218

Enclosures
13-00000

   
  

yee Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

 

Date s duly 29, 1992

Reply to: Karen Holzhausen, Ford Library “6# i

 

Subject : Rockefeller Commission files information
To : Steve Katz, Senate Committee on Government Affairs

Enclosed are the finding aid to the Rockefeller Comnission files
we have processed, copies of all the withdrawal sheets, and some
explanatory information.

About the withdrawal sheets: When we remove a classified
document from a folder we record more information for
administrative purposes than you find on these withdrawal sheets.
The data put into such fields as creator's agency, classifying
agency, classification level, comments, and special markings are
-not printed on this short form that researchers see. Our
computer program was designed to produce these abbreviated public
descriptions because some agencies, chiefly the CIA, do not want
to be public identified as the originator of specific documents.
We have made the withdrawal sheets for the Rockefeller Commission
items we have processed more explicit than normal practice
because the Church Committee published the gist of most of these
documents in 1975, identifying the CIA connection. But, because
of the software Limitations, the computer cannot print the
"agency" data on the short form.

I think there is enough information for you to deduce the
originating agency for most of these documents. Most of them
were supplied to the Rockefeller Commission by the CIA, although
many of them are of interagency origin. If you have questions
about particular sheets, please don't hesitate to call me.

We may find that some, perhaps many, of these documents have
already been declassified, but rather than take the time to
research all of them and delay “opening" the collection, we
simply “pink sheeted" everything and will wait to see what
happens with the proposed review commission. If they are not
systematically declassified, we will research them individually
as they are requested under mandatory review.

A Presidential Library Administered by the National Archives and Records Administration
 

404-40337-10014

 

wee spate t

resent

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL

   
   
 

  

  

2000
, i
or] : a

af gat a i fa q
(Cees be

‘Otico of

Congiessonst &@ .

Aro Hey
E CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY © 165

1 June 1993

John:

This is the package of JFK material
from the Ford Library we talked about.
today. We received this package from
Steve Katz, Counsel to the Senate
Governmental Affairs Committee.

_I£ you have any questions _about
this, please call me at 37914 (secure).

, q

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

hg
Presidential Libraries - Review of JFK Records

Contacts

Ford: Karen Holzhausen (313-741-2218)
Lessa Tobin

Johnson: Tina Houston (512-482-5137)

Kennedy: ‘Susanne Forbes (617-729-4582)

LO

2 Sept 1994 - Meeting with Steve Tilley, NARA

Recommended that we begin with the Ford Library. The
Rockefeller Commission holdings are there and they contain
most, if not all, assassination related records that are at
the Johnson and Kennedy Libraries.

12 Sept 1994 - phone conversation with Lessa Tobin (Ford)

They have screened the Rockefeller Commission material
and identified JFK assassination records. They have 1400
items in their data base and 6-7 feet of material to be
reviewed. They estimate that 80% of the records contain CIA
equities.

They would welcome reviewers this Fall (the sooner the
better since Ms. Tobin is going on maternity leave in
January) . ‘

13 Sept 1994 - Meeting with C/HRG.

Briefed him on my phone call. The Ford Library is not
a one man job. 6-7 feet of material translates into 13-
15,000 pages. It could take 2-3 people a week or more to
complete an initial review and would probably have to send
material back to HRG for review and coordination. Told him
I plan request a list of the 1400 items in the data base and
needed to discuss specific procedures (handling documents
copying, redaction, etc.) with Karen Holzhausen. She is on
leave this week. He suggested mid October as a possible
date for trip.

14 Sept 1994 - phone call with Lessa Tobin

She confirmed size of file -- approximately 13-15,000
pages (does not have a specific page count -- using same
rule as HRG, 2200 pages per foot). The 1400 items are the

number of Iden Aids prepared for NARA. She will sendy mea vm
complete set. ;
13-00000

Presidential Libraries (Ford)

JFK Assassination Records (pulled from Rockefeller
Commission Holdings)

1400 items - 6-7 ft of material
The Rockefeller Commission investigated allegations
concerning the CIA involvement in the Assassination of
President Kennedy (p251-269 of the June 1975 Report...)
Allegations:
a .
Hunt and Sturgis in Dwllas (3 derelicts)

CIA relationship with Oswald through anti-Castro Cubans
(Hunt appears to be focus)

CIA relationship with Ruby via Sturgis
Hunt and Oswald in Mexico City
If most of the material deals with the above allegations,

the bulk of it will be released with minimal.or no
redactions. .
