13-00000

BL:

SH:

. SECRET

that. Bissell was a one-man operator and Helms knew
exactly what to expect from Tracy Barnes.

But the complaint is that, I think, in the IG report,
Kirkpatrick's complaint about Helms is that Helm's did
not ring the alarm bells.

He should have. Yes, I saw that, but I don't think you
can blame Helms, because he did stay away from it so he
didn't know what alarm bells to ring. Is it personnel?
Is it your operational approach? Is it the air field?
Is it the air support? Is it the troops on the ground?
What is it you want him to ring alarm bells about? He
didn't know. He had no idea. I'm not trying to defend
him from that point of view; maybe he should have
forced his way in, which would have meant a real
confrontation with Bissell. And with Allen Dulles
looking the other way, Helms might not have found
himself in any position to argue with anybody - he
might have been out. . So I think you've got to
give....I think Kirk, CIA Inspector General Lyman
Kirkpatrick, was wrong in that particular aspect. Yes,
the guy who's third in line should maybe say something
to the guy who's second in line, but not when it's a
closed corporation. I know people who argue both ways
on this one, and I have too, but I think in the end you
come down, saying that somebody had to watch the rest
of the world, number one. And number two, no matter
what Helms would have said to Bissell about the quality
of the personnel....As I was about to say, when Helms
came over to Quarters I, where we were in Branch 4 for
Mongoose, and I showed him the roster of the people who
had been on the Bay of Pigs, literally he went down the
list saying, “hhhmmm, oh no, no, NO, hhmm, no it

couldn't be.” I just didn't say a word. There were

three people in the room, Zog and me (and Zog is dead
unfortunately), and Helms. And he's going down the
list of people, including those we have left, in
Mongoose. Of course, why do we have them left -
because nobody wanted them. Nobody wanted those extra
people. And Helms said, “Is this what you have left to
work with?” Zog said, “Yes sir. That's what we have
left.” That's when he picked up the phone. I'll tell
you, it's the funniest thing. He picked up the phone,
called J.C. King and said, “As of now Cuba is no longer
part of WH Division. You have all the rest of the
islands but Cuba is separate reporting to me.” Boom.
This is before Harvey comes along. This was well
before. So Zog and I find ourselves a task force
without calling ourselves a task force. The word
Mongoose didn't come along until much later.

SECRET
13-00000

SH:

BL:

SH:-

SECRET

What was the impression about IG report at the time?
In the trenches? There must have been rumors. What
did you know about it?

We didn't see it. All. we knew about it was that it was
a bad report; that Kirk had taken the knives out and
was really murdering Bissell and Jake. Nobody
mentioned J.C. J.C. was off on the sidelines as far as
everybody was concerned. Everybody in the room was
Jake (lost words)... and I don't think Hawkins' name
was kicked around much, but Bissell’s name sure as hell .
was, and Tracy Barnes' name was kicked around as the
two masterminds, with Jake getting most of the blame
because he's the guy doing the work. Theoretically
that's what we thought anyway. And remember that I had
just gotten back. from Saigon when all of this thing
hit. The rumors where....sure they were there, but
nobody had any facts. All we had was rumors. The
rumors ‘mostly came from the WH Division. So you had to
sort of figure out whether they were really telling you
what the report said, or whether they were making it up
or what have you. And everyone knew there was no love
loss between Kirk and Bissell in the first place.

Sam, another. of the points the IG report makes is that
the DDP did not consult with the analysts - especially
with regard to Castro's survivability, his popularity,
the effectiveness of his security forces, and so on -
and they recommended that that become a standard
practice before covert actions were implemented in the
future. Did you all have a lot of consultation with
the DI, or with ONE, through Mongoose?

Oh yes. There was no.problem on that. Yes we did.
And as a matter of fact we like to think that Sherman
Kent's September 1962: estimate, the famous September
NIE, when he was sure that the Soviets were not going
to put missiles into Cuba, came about as a result of
our prodding the DDI side of the house in terms of
doing some kind of an estimate because things down
there looked pretty strange. We didn't know what the
Hell was going on. We said so frankly “We're getting

’ all these crazy reports.” Ted and his people were

doing a fine job in providing us with all this crazy
stuff that's going on in the island, and the OpaLocka -
the Caribbean Admissions Center - was doing a fine job
with providing us the stuff from all the refugees

' coming out. Everything looked like there was something

screwy going on but we don't know what, literally. I
don't know who it was who got a hold of DDI Ray Cline,

10
SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

Soviet Union, there's still China, etc....When Bill

Harvey came.aboard I have him the same story and the
same pitch, and I said “Bill, we're going to have to
come up with better people and the way to do this is

~ you go to Dan Debartele”- who was then the Clandestine

Service Personnel Officer, the big wheel at “Career
Manglement” as we called it in those days. I said “Get
from Dan, at each appropriate GS level, GS 9's, 10's,
11's, 12's, and so on, right up the line, and get from
him from each component of the CS, Staffs and
Divisions, get from him the promotion list from each
component, including those that made it and those that
didn't quite make it but they're near the middle - are
near the top - and they might make it the next time ;
around. It's from those lists that we're going to pick
our people. I think we can get anybody we want to but
bearing in mind there's still a big world out there and

‘the Soviet Union comes first, regardless of what the

President says about Cuba.” Harvey looked at me and
listened, didn't say a bloody word, and I left. The
next day when I came back into his office he was ;
stacked high with personnel jackets which he had gotten
from Dan in terms of what I had said. You go and get
the top lists of who was recommended for what, and you
pick from those. In addition to that, obviously Harvey
knew he wanted Ted Shackley down in Miami. He was only
a GS-14, I think, at the time he was sent down. I
think he may have been a GS-13 for all I know. Ted
knew some of the good people from the Eastern European
Division, the old EE. That's how we built a different
kind of a cadre than Jake was forced to take. He had
some good people, there's no question about that, and
that, shown in the DDP's rebuttal to the IG report. are
some of the senior officers they had, but they also had
some guys who were not top notch. I don't have the
list in front of me now, but I remember when I showed
Dick Helms....From the beginning of the’ Mongoose
nonsense, Dick Helms came over to take a look at what
we had, and this was in December of 1961, when he
suddenly found. himself being told by McCone, the new
DCI, that he, Helms, was now McCone's man on Cuba.

That was told to him, by McCone, at a morning staff
meeting up in the Director's office. At which, my
boss, Goshen Zogby (we were still Branch 4 but it was
Cuba and all the Caribbean Islands and Zog was there)
our Branch Chief at a morning DCI staff meeting, was
most unusual. But anyway, he was there and he told me
the story about how Helms looked like a thunderbolt had
hit him when McCone said, “By the way you're my man on
Cuba.” Just like that. Helms, who had stayed away
from the Bay of Pigs (I'm still on your question) and
he was right to do that, I think, because he wasn't
going to get anywhere with Bissell in charge, he knew

8
SECRET
13-00000

BL:

SH:

BL:

SH:

SECRET

Sam, another kind of key point in the IG report is that
the DO's Chief of Operations - Dick Helms, I guess -
was not involved in the Bay of Pigs planning.

That's right.

The report, rather pointedly, complains that Helms
should have taken the opportunity to become involved,
but that, on at least one, perhaps more than one
occasion, he did not. He seemed to prefer not being
involved. Is this a lesson that you all took to heart
with Mongoose, and was that criticism of Helms fair?
Was it accurate?

I think it was accurate from what I know, being
somebody on the sidelines during the operation, since I
was enjoying life in Tokyo at the time. When it all
came through and Jake was knocking his ass off here, I
know...But yes, I think Dick probably did the right
thing, for a very simple reason. Somebody had to take
care of the rest of the world, from a command point of
view. If Bissell was spending his time on the Bay of
Pigs, plus the U-2, plus SR-71, plus Corona, there
isn't much time left for Bissell to worry about the
rest of the world. Secondly, Helms knew his troops,

the personnel more or less, in the Clandestine Service.

He knew the good ones from the bad ones or the mediocre
ones. That's one thing that I fault him on, in that he
knew that the Division Chiefs' protective association,
and the Staff Chiefs' protective association, were
sending off to the Bay of Pigs operation, which they
all knew about, obviously, but they were sending off
their second-best, their has-beens, the guys who had
stacked arms, and just kind of washing their hands of
the whole thing. That!'s.one thing, which is not in the
report itself, but that's one thing that I knew, as
just a case officer and having my own ears and fingers
out in the wind. When we started on Mongoose, that's
one thing I knew - at least I wasn't going to be
involved in - is letting the Division Chiefs and the
Staff Chiefs palm off on us all the cast-offs. I went
to Des Fitzgerald, whom I knew very well, because I had
been his Executive Officer, and I said to Des “You and
the other Division and Staff Chiefs ought to be ashamed
of yourselves in what you did.” I said “I don't know __.
the troops in the other Divisions and Staffs, but I do
know something about the Far East Division Staffers,
and you did the wrong thing. You didn't send the best
troops you had. And I'm not saying you had to give
them all your best troops,” because there's another big
world out there in addition to Cuba, there's still the

7
SECRET
13-00000

BL:

SH:

BL:

SH:
BL:
SH:
BL:

SH:

BL:

SH:

SECRET

Agency and staying with the operation. Both of them
said “This isn't going to work, it's useless.”

This was exactly when Sam?

About a week before the invasion, I don't even know the
date but it happened on a Sunday.

What was the precipitating issue that caused them to
reach that?

Air.

The air strikes?

Yes, the cut on the air support.
The reduction of the air strike?

Yes, the reduction. It was quite clear, Jake says, and
I've also talked to Hawkins now. He's a great guy, I
don't know if you've ever met him? He's 80 something
at the moment and he's still sharp as a tack. Anyway,
it was the lack of air and Bissell said, in effect, “If
you guys quit I'll just appoint two other people in —

your place and we'll go on anyway so why don't you stay

and see what you can do to help.” So he talked them
back into the Agency and they stayed. But the whole
point was that they are convinced - and I am now
absolutely - that Bissell never told the President what
the troops, Hawkins and Esterline, were saying, and
what their opinions were in all this stuff. He never
did.

What's your view, Sam, about why Bissell did not?

I think he was so imbued with the operation that he
thought, as many people have said now, that he thought
that Kennedy could never let it die and he'd send the

troops in, he'd send the Marines in if it came to that.

Plus, I think Bissell really thought he had a deal

going on an assassination plot of some kind. It makes
no sense that all of these things wouldn't bother him -
including not talking to the President again, in Rusk's

5
‘ SECRET
13-00000

SH:

SECRET

office on the telephone, that whole story - makes no
sense, makes no sense at all without an assassination
plot in the background. And the worst thing to me, and
looking at that damn report again, why they didn't say,
when the President and Rusk said “Trinidad looks too
professional, find some other place.”...At that point I
would have just blown my stack. Bissell may not be the
kind of person to blow his stack, but anyway I would
have blown my stack. If you want a non-professional
job, then go pick some people off the street and do a
job. I mean, we're professionals. If you don't like
what we are doing, fine; go get somebody else, but I
would never have agreed to move from Trinidad toa .
place that has to have an airfield on it, that's going
to take B-26's when everyone knows there is no such
place on the bloody island. So they found a little
spot of ground near the Bay of Pigs after spending four
days looking at the maps. That's crazy. It makes no
sense at all. And why Bissell went along with all this
stuff. Again, from a purely management point of view
and organizational point of view, Bissell never used
Hawkins the way he should have as a staff officer for
Christ's sakes. You take your staff officer to the
meetings with you: You don't know the details - you
are not the guy who knows military tactics or strategy,
for God's sakes. Bissell may be great at U-2'S and SR-
71i's, and: he may have been able to put all the ships in
his head during the war, but you don't know military
tactics and strategy.

Hawkins was at those meetings. Hawkins came out here
about a month ago - Lee Strickland [CIA Information and
Privacy Coordinator] had him out. Hawkins said he was
at the meetings but he wasn't allowed to talk. He said
it was agony because he just sat there and watched
Bissell mangle the military aspects and he was
wondering why. the Joint Chiefs, some of them who were
there at the meetings, didn't speak up - why the
Generals who were advising Secretary of Defense
McNamara didn't speak up. He found out afterward from
a classmate of his (because he was a Marine - and he
had a classmate from some military class who was on the
staff of General Shoup, the head of the Marine Corps)
that. McNamara wouldn't allow any of them to talk
either. They were afraid; they were cowed, and they
wouldn't speak up for fear they'd show up McNamara.

It was worse than I thought it was. This is
ridiculous. You don't run an operation that way.

6
SECRET
SH:

BL:

 

SECRET

I think one of the biggest things was a Governmental
structure and what and how. it was done, and how it was
done under Mongoose. Fortunately under Mongoose CIA

was not the main target of the Government structure.

We were part of a Government-wide operation, as opposed
to the Bay of Pigs. The Bay of Pigs as I read the
report was basically a CIA operation supported to some
extent by the Defense Department and politically by the
State Department. In Mongoose it was totally different
in that directions - all directions - came from the

.White House, basically Bobby Kennedy, through the voice

of a fellow called General Edward Landsdale. But in
terms of the management of the thing, one of the best
things that ever happened in Mongoose was that the
three senior people who were involved in this, namely
John A. McCone as DCI, Dean Rusk as Secretary of State,
and Bob McNamara as Secretary of Defense, refused, flat
out, to follow the original concept of Mongoose, which
was that Ed Lansdale would be set up as Chief of
Operations reporting to Bobby Kennedy, the Attorney
General. All the other agencies of Government - the
three I mentioned plus Commerce, Treasury, USIA, and
God knows how many other pieces - would all have
detailed men, money, and material to Lansdale, in
effect creating a brand new agency. The three senior
members of the cabinet that I mentioned, except for the
Director, three senior members said “no, we can't do
that. Congress appropriates the money to us and we're
responsible for the money and the manpower and the
material. We'll put our shoulders to the wheel, we'll
follow all your orders, but only through command
channels.” That's what made Mongoose different than
the Bay of Pigs. In the Bay of Pigs the CIA stood out
like a sore thumb, and in Mongoose CIA was subdued in
terms of just being part of a whole series of people
that were involved. In terms of the organizational
structure, and the management of the thing, I think
that with Harvey, particularly, in charge, and with
Helms as his boss as DDP, we avoided one problem
automatically in there were two senior men who
organized our part of Mongoose the way we in the Agency
had always done in terms of headquarters and the field
station. We regarded Miami, which was headed by Ted
Shackley, as almost the equivalent of headquarters. It
was JMWAVE. He had more people under his command than
we had in the branch, or in the task force up in
Washington. I think he ended up with about 600
staffers including commo and logistics and God knows
what else.

So you did solve that problem?

2
SECRET
104-10324-10000),

%

an at

ae

 

ni SECRET

HALPERN, SAM
Interview by Brian Latell, Michael Warner
7 APRIL 1998

BL:

SH:

BL:

SH:

BL:

This is the interview with Sam Halpern, done by Brian
Latell and Michael Warner in the spaces of the Center
for the Study of Intelligence on the 7th of April,
1998. .

Sam, you told me that you read recently the IG report
on the Bay of Pigs.

I did, and the responses....

Which were recently declassified by the Agency, and you
told me that. you had never seen it before, and that had
you seen it when you were running Operation Mongoose
you would have learned some critical léssons. You said
that it-was a shame that you had not séen it.

That's right. Neither did Bissell; I mean, neither did
Harvey and neither did Ted Shackley. Harvey's dead so
I couldn't ask him, but I asked Ted the other day
whether he had ever seen the report, and he. said no he
had never seen it and nobody had ever talked to him
about it. .So here you have the man in charge of a new
Cuban Bay of Pigs SIC Operation, although we weren't
going to send in 1,000 troops. And you have the guy in
charge of the whole thing, Bill Harvey, and of course
the DDP himself, Dick Helms. Helms by that
time....When we were doing Mongoose, none of the three
people, none of the three senior people ever saw the
damn thing. I think McCone was wrong not to let those
three people, at least those three people, see the
thing, because the sections dealing with the
organization and management of the whole Bay of Pigs
Operation had lessons for what we were doing in
Mongoose, and we were running the same kind of
operation in terms of trying to overthrow a foreign
government.

What, in particular, would you have done differently?
What specifically, what lesson specifically applied to
Mongoose?

1
SECRET
13-0000

SH:

BL:

SH:

SH:

SECRET
We solved that problem.

Because the IG report criticized the Bay of Pigs
Operation because of the poor
coordination/communication between Miami and
Headquarters. :

We did it without knowing that. We set up our
organization without knowing what way they had done it
before. It was sheer luck. You had Harvey and you had
Helms. Two old hands in the DDP business, and that's
the way we set it up. But I think if we had known what
the problem was in the Bay of Pigs operation I think we
would have been helped a bit, in terms of at least
watching out for that because there could have been a
real problem if somebody had said it back here, “Hey
you're doing it all wrong you know; you can't have a
station in the United States.” Well, in this case we
didn't even ask anybody, and we didn't ask Landsdale,
and we didn't the President, and we didn't ask Bobby,
we just did it our way, and with the support of a guy
called Larry Houston, CIA's General Counsel, who said,
“Set it up any way you want to,” in effect. “You guys
are responsible and you are reporting to the President;
go, and go with God.” And we did. But I think we
would have felt a lot more, at least I would have felt
more comfortable, in knowing that we weren't going to
face some of the problems that Jake Esterline had
faced. One of the things we didn't have to worry
about, and Jake did have to worry about, is this
business of the air support. We weren't worrying about
air support, because we weren't operating in Air Branch
or anything like that. Jake's problem, for example -
which Bissell thought he had solved by that memorandum
that he wrote in October of 1960 where he set up the
command relationship between DPD and Branch 4....It's
fine on a piece of paper, but I asked Jake specifically
“How'd it work?” He said it didn't. Those things just
don't happen the way you write them on a piece of paper
and dictate in a memorandum.

Development Plans Division, DPD, acted as an
independent entity and basically answered to the DDCI
Cabell.

Well, first they answered to a guy called Bissell. It
was Bissell's private air force, and he ran it as his

-private air force. Fortunately we didn't have to worry.

about that one, but Jake did, and all the memorandums
in the world didn't help any on that one. Listening to

3
SECRET
13-00000
oo ° SECRET

Jake on that - in terms of trying to get air support -
it was basically on a person-to-person basis. It's
what you can wheedle out of somebody and get them to do
it the right way instead of being able to command them
and not having to spend your time massaging a guy's
back. That's one of the key problems I thought, and
also Jake's relationship, or Washington's relationship
with Miami, was obviously, if you read the report, and
even the rebuttal, I thought it was very confusing.
Case officers did not know really who their boss was.
Maybe they should have looked at who was writing their
fitness reports, I suppose is one way, but it was too
haphazard. We tried to organize it, again it was sheer
luck. We tried to organize it, as I say, as if Miami
was a foreign, station and Ted had all the rights and
privileges of.a Chief of Station abroad. The fact that
he was in the United States didn't bother us at all; we
never thought of it that way. Largely because you've
got a guy like Harvey in charge, who, despite the fact
that he was a gruff SOB, had a heart of melted butter
when it came to his own troops. He would never let
anybody, at any level, blast at one of his troops
‘without himself, in effect, taking out of his guns and
shooting the SOB who did it. :

I'll give you a perfect example of that. I was ona
telephone call to J.C. King, and J.C. was chewing me
out on the phone about something I wasn't. even involved
in, but anyway he chewed me out. I. finished my
conversation with him, if you want to call it that,
hung up, and at that time Harvey buzzed me to come in
and see him. So I came in and I must of had a hang-dog
look on my face or something, and he looked up at me
and he said, “What's the matter with you?” I said J.c.
just chewed the ass out of me. He said, “For what?” I
said, “Nothing, I wasn't even involved.” He didn't ask
any questions. He picked up the phone and dialed to
J.C. Himself. Before I could say anything he started
to read J.C..the riot act, in only his. language, which
makes paratroop language look like a church meeting.

In effect he’ said, “Look, if there is anybody that's
going to chew out my troops, I!m going to chew out my
troops. Don't you ever do that again without checking
with me first. If you've got trouble with some of my
troops you talk to me and not to them.” Moves his arm
as if he is slamming down the receiver. JI think J.c.
must have lost his ear then. It was awful. Ok, you
got a guy like Bill Harvey in charge - Jake couldn't do
that. But Jake for example, Jake and Col. Jack Hawkins
both resigned from.the Bay of Pigs operation up in the
Agency. Bissell took them to his house, on a Sunday
morning, talks them into reneging and staying with the

4
SECRET
