74-0000

GONTINUATION Of | a

 

ee LH EG AE LR

DISPATCH fereereret { UTCA}7439

ate

 

 

trainine and the {dentity of the candicate, Tulfect was never

activated and was kept on stand-ly far possible use at a later

date, fer that purnese tena ffdea were established ty A! rit

and reported to his CO, Sublect van not surplied with a *T set
and nc sirna, plans nor pace were issued to his. |

&, N€e}1 recalls Subject was very secure in his clan stine
ecntacts and operations. Despite entallished bena fides, A IRE}.
had consideratie trouble fn rainine Subtect’a confidence .and of
three preliminary contacts were necessary before petting down to
pusinase. Subject wan last contacted by ANLZE}1 at Subject’s
apartment described above, in January or FehPliary 1961, At

this tine Subject was still willing and ready to works

als, It is assumed. that Headwuarters files on the activities of
AMEREP 1. AMCLEN@-1 or AHFOX-1 will contain ories of the training
reports and information reported by AMER « We would appreciate
Headquarters assistance in ascertaininr Subject'’s identity and
present whereabouts in orger to determine if he could ctill be
used operationally insides tarret area. AMPAHTC-1 has been
tereinated by JPXAVE Pa Branch because of weakness in his personal
security, and it is believed best not to contact him on this

matter if possible.
ENP OF DISPATCH

USE PRE LOU COITIOM

 

 
 

104-10180-10215

 

enti ne eiittennnenne meee st

ater

 
 
 
 

  

[fttaire Peare

  
  

 

Action Pequired: Peauest for ede oe Peview of Files + Para

1. In the falk of 1960 AMERE}2 (Peter J. DI CEPVENO)
recruited in Havana a UT operator candidate, whose name he
cannot recall at this time. This candidate was epotted and

Sa. arrat hy AMPANIC-1, who passed the lead over to
br} « AYPANIC-1 first contacted the candidate on the porch
1 frercedes” denz Acency at Falecon and Frinctpe Streets,
[REL then contactel rubject in the latter's apartnent in

2 tuildine located in the riddle of the
Gide of etween
ts. Th if Fad. a@ Store in the fir

floor, inted a pinkish beipe, and the apartments were
very srall (one bedroom and hath, livine-dining room corbina~

& tion and a smal] kitchen). Subject was at the tine workiny in
ivine wi is wife d a small child
Sibject was about! ears .old tally Jlbs., Ko

2. Subject had experience as a professional WT operator ~

and worked a clandestine 4T set for th
avainst the Satista reeime. AMPANIC-1 was_a renter of the

Res land spotted subject through a leader of th or whom
Subject worked in the underground, 2

        
    

     

     

   

   

 

      
    

 

   

 

 

 

]

 
 

 

   

 

     

 

       
     

3. Subject was trained for atec ee so by AMELEN-1 in a
safehouse located at which had been obtained
for that purpose by AP co wy POX=T attended the training
sessions as a look-out, but neither A'PC%=1 nor AMCLEN-1 knew
the identity and addrese of the trainee. Training included the
clandestine operaticn of a RS-1, the use of sipnal plans, the use
of pads in coding and decoding, and pergonal security. Training
was conducted in the fall of 1964 after recruitment of Sub om
and with the approval of CO Ceotse D. SCOPCORY, who was A‘ L's

CO at the time and to whoo full reforts were turned in on thal
(Continued) .

 

   

 

 
   
   
       
     
   
  

    
  
  

   

 

OATE DISPATCHED:

Be}

DATE TYPED

 

Distribution:
3 + fieadquerters

     
 

2% fan, 63
KOSRURENEIO USS DeePATCH STREBOL AND MUMBER

 
 
 
  

  

UFCA-78%39
NEALQUARTERS PLE MOMBER

  
   
 

19-129-33-84/3

 
