J2-20000

w Hol st mrips—) Avi
= a ae) :

nw On J Wete858

30 PK

Resairenerts sat forth 212-4133, dated I$ July. If perutaston could
be Odtained for use thle territory, even if oaly fur Te sours grior and
€uring tae maim strike operation, the project wld be advanced eaterially,

he og

IAB. Sestgon%s sdvice on) assistence secéed an following: (1) proviaten -
of, teleprone teps/nite insts’ ion ouwrational data for ArCIGAR
cont aay (2) protection 6) ef AMCIGAR xeabdera

agaings anray agoat execative eotianz; (3) agent curvetllente |
to chock an security and loyalty of overt/covert ABCIGIR senbersy (2) selection
of secure safe sites for housing of AICIUAH ermbers, for overt office, ond :

for covert meeting sites.

Ce: ~ ALities in torus of protection of overt |
Gyent exequtive actian opsrations.

De Can Station eammmication facilities (pouch and cstle) be uot for

OLIVER ¢, GALDCED
Distetbetions
3 » Mesieo
9 Amst 1960

1 » Kexteo Desk

1 + WH/\/Chrono

oa

Du/ef
‘oa-t0t7 10229

 

od oSaRaknk Bb ONG
Chief of “tettan, Fextes

cnet, sa , ot

hatters for wiseusaton when Agthony 2, 2G8CBAT
on hove af AMCIG.E te Mexles x

ST PYRAT

For PORCHAY

| ‘Zhe falloving 4s in espe to your reqeset for-« summery of points thst peed
Ro be elarifiet in diseuzsiona between you ait “tation heaztes om Spe fortaecaing : -
gure of ARCICAS to Kaxzito witye .

Le Robtttent

‘Ay The requiccamnt that tho “overt” office will earsist of only Cores
offielelz, tha others being “covert”, a8! ths statement thet “the presencd
of lnegs ACIOAN fn Bexieo should at become moun em! never airittes".

Cle HALAS, 29 July. (Comavata It woul epww imowetdle to camly
with ¢bia reqairemmt if there is to be an ‘overt office and any ARAL?
peblicity. in Mexies or eloeulare, since the identities ans wherésbouts of
eli ANCIUAS meubers wilh be a matter of pudlic knowledge.)

. B The btavonnt is para 3, KTI65 4%. that the hexicas Governsest
will not be friealy enlees AAs? ectivities and “platting to overthrow
Cuban Goreranont* remaie covert. (coapenti Since toere ts to be em overt
office anc. propayanda degartuent ams AKAN? bas Seon, and will howe to
eontines te be, Ceserided ase grou oruonizes for the purpose of removing
the CAMTAY cowernnent, theie necessery propsgansa activitics toward thls
end canna be covert. Coalé is te axcified to apply only to ecreemat tat
bo military invasion would be loenches from Faxicot

sa os : a 2 nsooecenntttvechaahanannernnvanassnnnnsssaat aa =
[cassate a

Slagpoet APTS, the ttre CLanvoc. is anbi.uas.
ctaslinhed that ZYBOC ia in canteck afte
Arne Ft Cevtaizly ve can exes ehe ebor@ vill te este mry tiees by te
Soviets aod Coated.) 24

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
 

  

Ps PoasteaLic sy. of (LIE noid ing weeticg. rr) wriet
Cuban oubvereive activit! ea-Kesleo (para $, MAl-9593) ve lore MAPIRET sana,
wafer woold wnourtediy be Qf arcistance tn obSa ining ‘poyulas ams OoTicsel
syeosthy fer Agsat? activities. . .

a. Propasseda”

ve plan to hive AKAD? , propenda dear taent io mexico, Yet 20 vill be
inposgible far tran ts overate effectively, or tn‘ead at al}, if = eel

Zz

ml — “public “ar presa Tesee*. to feel a tremradcus pwdiieliz srive soe :
be mate throuztont Latio aywrios at the thar af arrival ce UO 1AG tn Pesico. |
tation KUTSC: saeets vill ta reede! to darze extent fe teprosin, the . ‘

| pediic ans political climate to elke AA? pougle ta wack ef Tective ts.

Alga, it ts boped <“getiom will te avle te puide aw caypaot aatlan, vio rtil
atriva in Sexteo sno to pracuce wt puro ods psi le, wiies wil) otenstely ts
* {ese pentent bart ectually will be PRT TrlicA wil ales gare earirioal,
aasotoue racic tage for broncensticg cver Batis wun.

 

 

 

 

: GIN
