 

 

TE gape

 

 

 

 

DIR 191.57

; Ze

le On it April Costilie {lumen *2 iy Nee a

tine Cort ets irectuent dn the Soviet Cnion (Saeferik Bg12) was bret
up, u8 suregted in reference enable, At tha cvtsethed the lunch, Coled
asked Cestille if he hed had & roo in the Soviet Unt (sts was
the firet tine had met since Costillets trip ven tough Celub had
called severel tines to set a luncheen gates) Costible
wag uh interesting trig, and thar he engcyed*the bellet cond the tourist

sighbe but thet ra had received cverall bed imeression ef the Soviet

Union tecsuse cf the trastment he received, Golub registered surprise ond

anked whet Cosiilie meante Cretille stated that he had velxed into his
“hotel rou in Nescew and “nterrumed ye Soviets searching his room
“Golub stepped esting ad asked Costilia to continue. Certilte then fro-

Geeied to tell the conplete story as related in, O¥.X]3819 in as much etait 2 .
as his Pinrish sould allow, He began with the entry} of Volodya on the scene,
Volodya's ebviere slips in cervers rnd Costille's leaving the cpera
early snd welking into his hotel roe, At this point Golub stated, "You
know who these sex were don't you?® Fefere Cestille could make an ansver,
Golub said, "The internal police." Certilie answarad that it was all fairly
ebvious whe the ten were and that they vere ¢ vaged in meking o fciriy ex-
tensive eesrch is rodme Ceiab sede sone deregatory remerxs shout
the internal pelice and agreed that it was a sloppy performance. He stated
that there rere a Ict of old xilitéry 2en who transferred to the intern
police and wore cot too bright and vere used ta this type cf behaviour, He
continued that he could not understand xny the police insisted in raking
room searches, esrecizlly of anericens. Ze said thet he had written a number
of times to Moscow warning that Americans should be left elone as ore tine
something like this would happen sd there would be bad publicity. he teld
Costille thst 2s secon cs they had ed lunch ha was gcing back to his
office and cable Mescow and mexe an official ¢ int. He also stated that
he would inform the Sovieb Arbcesader te Helsi cf the treatment Cestille
-. Bad received, Costille said thet he alsc thought the thing fairly ridiculous

‘and wondered what they expected te Ning, Celub answered, "Cf course, ‘hat
did they expect to find?’ You are young and this is the firet tire you kave
been overseas, ‘he did they think rcu vere? There will ba thousands cf
frericens in the USS this sumer. fees ‘the internal police think they can

cover everyone of then? This is ricieuleus."

2, Cestiile continued stating that Jelub had not heard everythi

ord told hin 92 coming back to the rece ond fink
dinner with Volecya in the room, He Lb ed nly and sheok his
head es if in diegust. He also interlected such statenents ag: "This is
terrible. This is s scandal. I can't feve it," Costille told hin ef
Velodya's feable stterrts to cive the 2 ir an illegal black market atnos-
phere rather the elaniestine one. club seid that only a feol wuld
believe his story am it was cbhvicus yowere sesrching Costille's
reeme Costille rext cold him cfitne b i the three chances cf his
netel room, cGoler ststed, still leas cg his heed as in ais=
belief, "Or course, thzt is o>

evidently seme i:

He repeated a mmber of tines th

nz the Seviet girl ha

 
 

 

1044017210309

2 oon ema NEOL names RNR eAip ts area,
et ett are

 
 

 

 

Lc Big gh einai Om
fs i . ME Resp 9 eg
ir a od Pp SSE gy
“SECRET 9p :
‘ ry

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Too officer deciguatians in the “TO” cofsma, Number each commeat lo coftespond with the aumbee in the “TOM od
Drew a line scross the chee! under eech comment Esch offiret should date ond lutisl (chech mark tnmutceat) belors futher ro:
This Routing and Record sheet should NOT be semaved from the etieched RECORD Socument.

NOTE: Il a copy ot afutoenss are removed {roc the et
tached document, sole the locesoa of the copy and/ar sitech-
ment hereon, ff thts RECORD COPY ts fo be retained ia
the Wee af the Deck. call che Cental File Section for pet.
maneat bea.
oF Ath nd? wn FALL,
_ .
Photo ford fs oy poe lof!

fit ngper sane, om

- Plimy Ade/ee
Jay MEE -

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER

RIZE 6oyE

"ORL" loa SECRET

 

UK

 
 

CONTINUATION ax |
Orspatcn

   

  
    
 
  
  
 

    
    
  
   
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
 

he e would heibscever,
hy did not know Fr ser roney to. back -pat
would think cheut ie, Golub repented a munber of tres thc
ch detail as Costille h:
Coxtille alse teld hin thet of eocrse ce had had to report it to “Cl here,
Ne veve no respense tc this at all. He ausxed Coetille if he knew the rene

of this Intourist yutse amt if he ted a picture of hin, go that he could
notify Moscow exactly wie it was, Costille stated that he was net certain

of his lest nane smd thet all he knew wes Yolodya, Ke also said he did
not think he hed a snapshet cf hin, (This is_tric ag. Mr, (Carruthers) took’ 06
tha phote.) Colub asked Costille for the date the ‘incident took rlate,

   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
    
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
 
    
 
      
 
   
  
   
  

 

  

    

eny purticipation or knowledse of the affcir, placin= the blane squarely on
the Soviet intern:] police, (We assure he meant 4D.) He showed discust
and surprise and never ence atterpted to deny thet it wags a room ¢earch, He
attributed it to the cenernl n-ture ef the HVD's suspicion cf any foreiener
and the sloppiness as being typical of their actions. Ee once steted that
since it. was se slerpy and all the Soviet participants were so young it must
have been part of a “training preblen" for new employees ami that Castille .
just happened to be the “problen target. It ig practically. impossible to
conclude from Golub's stalesents that he had received a report of the affat
from Moscow, Thera ir only one slicht indication that he micht have received

sone report en Cestille's trip, ami thie rertainy to Costillets knowledge of
the iuesian lancuaze. Golud had:

4. In all cf Golubts reacrks, he attempted to disesscciate hinself from

 

 

& known that Costille hnd pravious acquain-
tance with Russisn, Costille had not denied this te Golub. The issue had.
dust net cone up. Since Colub speaxs no Fnylish, Finnish hecare the sutual
Asnyuage. Colvb never esked Costille if he knew Russian, and evidently assumed
he did not. However, while in the Soviet Union, Costille used his Russian,
but only very limitedly, to order food, ask prices in steres, end read street
signs. The regular Intourist guide, as wall as Volodya, were aware of this, —
However, Velodya and Cestille used Enslish together. During tre linch with
Golub when Costille did not understand a Finnish word, Golub on one or two
occasions said the word in Russfan, Thie was the first tine he hed ever done.
thie with Costille. Costille felt that he should mentien to Golub that ke

had studied Kussien for a shert while in the Universit: 2 80 he vould not think
Costille was attempting to hide the fact that he knew Russian, Golub advised
Costille te see a new Russian movie in torn. Costille said he would like to
but did not think his Finnish was that gocd to read the cub-titles and that

he had had only cne semester of college Russian, Golub gave no i iLeation of
being surprised et this renerk, Hewevor, this putting a word now end then into
fussicn micht have been nothirg more than 2 nztural reacticn, since i: is his
first lenguages, : . . ,

 

5. We are forwardin: the picture of Volodya thit wes trken by Mre
ObGarrutterst Mra, [Cerrutrers]is also in the picture, Please make as many
copies ofthis ac Feu like and retesn the slicn as quickly as pessible, es
this is only on to tne Station. we weuld algo aperectate any traces
on this VolodyaARTAxt CATUCY). t+ . :

 

 

‘ 6 Cre Ltesen Volodya we sid not frelude in the previous disraten, |
(lorua 3819, which mer be of interest, Voledra was asked

meet the tour in Mercowon the first serad

rereters with Prine er

thic, #0 wa have no way of knowi

  
 
  
 

        

   
 
 

if it ts tree,

 

. a
17 April 1959 . WILICA L. Costille
E ure; Pheture for 52
fbuttont 2 = oh wenel, wy, 2

   
   
 

 

  
 

fore UME FPO. Ere
=. anes] hae 7
ney BW mae eet y aan Lom a

wens at oaanet j

 

 
