  

|

Cy jen)
H/lg

   
 

Sourge has furnished complete inetuaane fc lists of

various (Griese cOfitunist}| publications, including ("China
Reconstrmets, "Peking Neview," "China literature} and other

|
!

lee ing\Bro-Chine S(comaunis? publications which are published
in ]Hong “Kong, B.C? in this regard, saurce furnishes identities
of & individuals residing. in the U.S. who act as agents for

a
these | Cninesé] communist publications.
Source still continues to furnish, up-to-date news
concerning American citizens who have pro
sympathies residing (6n [the Hainland of thina./ THese Americans

   

 
 
 
  

whereabouts of onefVIi iC » New YorkJespionage subje
who has been missing Binc 96) This source continues to
furnisn pertine gforiavion alse relative to the activities
and writings. of GAii SE : her fignt to have the
U.S, recognize nina)

Tule vuurve coulliwally furnishes the identities’ of
many U.S. citizens who have violated the U.S. passport laws by
having actually traveled to and throughout (Red China.)

Source continually identifies certain U.S. scientists
yho are on friendly terms with U.S. educated Chinese scientists
who have since returned to jC na)end atthe same time, makes
available certain requests which these [chinese scientists nalre
of their scientific friends in the U.S.” In certain instandes,
the Bureau has been able to develop potential double agents in
the (Chinese]security field, because of these requests made by
‘thesé (Chinese) scientists in particular, San Francisco mekxes
reference to the case of ost YP. Sun gg Feseangh ghomi.st for —
(Shell Developmen’ Corporation, Modest, Cali fort ' It also
assists jn evaluating the reliability of double“Agénts as in the
case on Gui0r TO, who has, been appreached by \vepresentatives
of the New China Hews Agency. In mOTiD case, tnis source nas
been able to corroborate information which (abu )has furnisned
the Bureau. .

 

In the. eounterintelligence field, this’source continue
to monitor correspondence one Gait CHAQg, who resides inf&nn
- Arbor, Michigan} it being pointed” out. that (CHAO Was alleged”so 5
an actual agent for the( Banke of China) which is’a Chinese’) _
comaunist front, : . .

_ Considerable data has been uncovered concerning pro-~
(Chinese)conmunist . syneathies on tne vars of U.S. Gove:maant
employees, thus causing the ficld and the Lureau to intiate
VO SGE cases. ote

 

 
124-10260-10343

a

 

     

 

aR

i

te Ne “Benonn | tuim-no. 10" ’
we. * UNITED SIATES GO" @u- SE Z ET @ ‘ey
Memorandum °: oo,
ro :{} DIRECTOR, PBI 34-5108) pare: 3/11/60
prot: | ff sac, SAN meno: -1132) UM
r pee OM anv
| SUNJECT: | & SF 2279-sy) wy AK
‘~ ONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ~ CHINESE Cv’
is
- BN ReBulet 2/23/60._ ;
3 The following data is being furnished to the Bureau
‘sg. concerning the operation of this Source:
a
; . The operation of this source is secure from ell
standpoints at this time. If this security becomes an issue |
at any time in the future, the Bureau i111 be inmediately
notified and the source will be discontinued until such time
7 as its security can be guaranteed. Lo.
t i‘)
P 4 |, : - As the Bureau is well aware @, this source furnishes a
. te magnitude of vital information vertainine to activities within
| ed Caing} including its economical and industrial achievements,

or instance, during the past six months, this squrce continued .
to bo returned tet hea relating to U.S. daucated ehinessl who have
since returned tol Bed Ching and paentitied thelr current positions
in thelr respective PieldS”of sei e, This source also reveals
the intimate feelings which these] Chinece |scientists have
concerning life in|China,]as well as their pros and cons concernir.;
.life and seience in “general, while studying and residing in the U,§,
A true picture of life.in hing today is also related py the
information which this source furnishes reflecting life in general
to be horrible due to the lack of proper food, housing, clothes,
equipment, and the complete disregard of a human person's
individual rights. .

aesified by 4238
EGS, Cate
Yoclassificath

Exempt fro

. Dates

Fsource still continues to furnish up-to-date news
on (the foffier. Korean prisoners of war (turncoats} and their truc
feelings, both pro-Chinese communist jend anti-US, as well as their

     
 

future plansg Source reveals the ctaviae of their friends in (4.
the UpSecadS Nell ay the current activit: a“
, | thesefiturncoat ad:
-  2.— Bureau (AM REG, )
jeA 22
PIHW/1s
yo Y:

SECS lp
FER PY god EP

 

 

 
 

 

Lan

| - : Ge 1132)

 
 
    
 

H/ls

| .

This source enables San Francisco. to keep uo with the
eurrent residences and employments
and SI subjects and at the came time, souree
points which these Subjects have concerning (Red China,)as well
their anti-US statements which they have made,

, Source has uncovered the whereabouts of a Sglecti-72
Serv:be subject of the San Francisco Division, namely¢@T! 026
yip,) who recently graduated from the University of {Peking] atte
being missing from the San Francisco area for several years.

 

 

   

In other instances, this source has,revy¢:

hinese)}security subjects to be now residingfontibesli
inajand attending institutions of higher learning even

thovigh US passports for these individuals have not been issued.

Source hag identified certain U.S. scientists who have
traveled to/ffioscéu fas Well SS"muropean colmeries,{ to attend
various sclentifte*tonferenites theres bu Ting these conferences, -
Bome of these U.S. aséiculibts lave Devume quite irienaLy wits

(Chinese pcientists and have init erespondence,
Some ofthese 7 6ntistS nave been ontacted by
relativ their willingness to cooperate in the doubl

  
   
 

Source still continues to furnish pertinent information

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Source continually shows the techniques and pressuz

     
 
 

ut on €ninese)scientists remaining in the U.S. in orden Fores
the o~return to(China )and work f whe—mo- In this

regard, sourte ¥ che U.S. valuable information conceraini
the advancement which the Chinese )comaunists “have made in certetn
scientific fields. .

   

Source still continues to identify mimerous U.S.
citizens who are im contact with variousflong Kong pro-Chinese )
communist publishing firms, oo

- It has also furnished correct(Chinese family)nanes,
whiich peflect that {chinese individuals are residing in the U.3.

ie }

fraudulently and has also furnished Yooaeiing\papers" for indistius
to |Communi st Ching }through drops inflong feng yand has also

infSimation relative to the manner AW which iMidividuals ar2 ¢
deave (Communist China Jihich has been of ansistance in evaluat:
the stories which recént imaigvants furnish during the cours? o

interviews by Bureau agents. “7 ae of fC
” yy a
: asl Jo ue 8

to [oon It has algo furnished data gs "Oo Ndéw finances may ve
C.

   
   

 

 
 

 

 

Ge 134-183) Storer.

TH/1s |

Numerous potential security informants have been
developed due to the type of information which this source
has furnished in San Franelsco.

Uponreceipt of the translations of the Chinese material
which is forwarded to the Bureau, as well as an eValuation nade
of the English language material, which is photostated, San
Francisco furnishes to the other field divisions only that
material which can be construed as having intelligence valus
In manyinstances, San Francisco has knowledge concerning the
identities of security subjects residing withia other field,
divisions and furnishes pertinent cata concerning these indivtaus
Numerous requests are made by certain Chinese) s séiéntists to fom
to them certain technical books and publications in the |
scientific field which information is also- ‘furnished to other
field divisions. . : :

In the case of Gaucasidns) traveling throughout Re a
China ,) who may possibly be U.S. citizens, this data is-also
furnished to other olrices.

' At this time, thig source as a general rule has accezs’
to all mail emanating from (Hong Kong, B.C.C. and Communist Chins
destined for the U.S; however, on certain occasions, this source,
due to the routing of mail py the Post Office from the Alroors ,
sometimes misses certain mail bags.

For the Bureau's information, San Francisco processes
approximately 13,500 first class letters a day not including
third class publications. In this connectlon; ‘however, it is
noted that the processing must be done ina very limited tine,
two hours maximum, Furthermore, in view of the existing
limitations, the quantity of material chosen for complete
translation is necessarily limited to no more than 50 per day,
some of which as further time permis for a closer scrutiny, is
later disraarded and no further action taken, other than
returning the materjal to the source,

 

 
