 

 

4h . o~
C QO
mo SECRET :

3.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
 
  
  

Department in January 1962. According to knowledgeable sources,
‘| a provocation agent about to be put into contact with hostile af
intelligence would usually be removed from his job, particulariy
if it was a relatively sensitive one, at least six months before
being sent out. This is the exact pattern in NOSENKO's biography:
he left (at least ostensibly) the section working against the
American Embassy just a month after GOLITSYN's defection (and
about the time planning for a provocation would have begun) and
moved to the Tourist Department, whose targets and methods are
less sensitive, more transitory == and more numerous -- and whose
basic techniques had been well known to GOLITSYN, partly through
a detailed document GOLITSYN was known to have taken with him
\ from the Helsinki Residency. It is possible that NOSENKO did
not in fact move from the First.Department as early as he claims.

7. Sourcing of Information: NOSENKO has provided information
(1), from his own immediate vantage point in the Tourist Department,
and (2), which he has learned through other means. In the first
category we learned interesting details on methods and organization
although their essence was already known from GOLITSYN; and a
mass of names and identifying data on agents and agent candidates
which he claims to be the totality of his Department's successes
and which turn out to be practically worthless to us or the KGB,
His own.position, however, has. enabled..NOSENKO to play a role in
some more notorious events: the OSWALD case, the. lease, theé
BARGHOORN case, etc., which are of interest. But “much of
NOSENKO's more interesting information came from outside his *
immediate periphery. His accounts of how he got these other
items provide an interesting aspect of the bona fides problem.

  

 

8. As will be touched on again in this paper, NOSENKO nas

infqumation.which-he.. has ,, volunteered, often out of context,,,a
me to get over to us, 2s Sontiasied™

what. we (gAt Prom hinyehr ough=questionin 2... Aside trom OS ALD,
F owever, practically every one of these.- Was

  
 
  
  

outside I il access, and” was obtained” fortuitously or

through-conwersations.. with other case officers.=«This=way of
getting information is normal and expectable. What _is unusual .
y abqut_.NOSENKO's case is that his explanations are in every st such’
case either vague, conruséd or unbelievable and he quickly
becomes irritated and defensive when questioned in detail on
Ources. Almost every item that NOSENKO volunteered” Has an

implausible source. A few examples are given in the paragraphs

 

 
    
  

 

 

 

iy SECRET

|
|

 

 

|
HW 50953 Docld:323166811 Page 5
ae

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

2 6 MAR 1364

yl oo.
jaf DUMEYORS DUM FOR: Mr. John Edgar Hoover
“yo By Director, Federal Bureau ;
CL RSSi Ass ¥ v4 of Investigation ;
ila United States Department of Justice

af? pla oti BJECT:

E FERENCE :

1.

disseninated to other ‘departments ¥ without permission

‘The Yeport is loaned te" your Bure a
per paragraph 5 of referent memorandum,

2. After reviewing the origins of the SAMMY
the report discusses SAMMY's motivation, his “prod
‘to. date, his behavior, and certain other cases

es that SAMMY..iS-
Tre ang PME Bann

oa

in stich an opera

“Tn previous correspondence, this Agency.
noted the need for an earl evaluation by, you:
sorter ob by. E:

ees and. dep rane.

Simi Tarly, “i ;

on SAMMY's bona ee we are intere
| Sogn as p poss ibie Your views on:
d in. Eh. ,

Pky « In considering how best
yoy V Agency can proceed in. further ex
it-is probable that normal proc
information..will.not suftice
which no parallel exists ins
proper resolution suggests the, need fo’
Pa a OP acess: fed pon dan REC, KGS
; lever. of . -

 
124-10365-10006

 

JFK Assassination System , Date: 6/9/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10365-10006
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 65-68530-99

A rere rere

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE :
DATE: 03/26/1964
‘PAGES: 7°
SUBJECTS :
NOSENKO RE OSWALD
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/16/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA k
COMMENTS :

v9.1

 

MEMO, INC MEMO, ASSESSMENT

HW 50953 Docld:323166811 Page i

 
 

 

(ASP SECRET

  
 
  
 
  
   
     
 
 
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
    
   
    
   
 
     
  
 

TAB "ED

PERSONAL DATA, CONDUCT AND MANNER

Statements about Himself

 

1. Biography: NQSENKO has contradicted himself in his own
accounts Of his Tife in ways which | may be related to the events |.
d-personalities He “is reporting 6 Especially notewor thy is
this, SAT +--in~t962;"He said that he. graduated from the
Institute of Foréign Relations in 1950, went into the Naval GRU,
and then entered the KGB at the beginning of 1953. In 1964, he
said he had graduated in 1949 and entered the KGB in early i952.

\ This affects his version of getting into the KGB with KOBULOV's
help as KOBULOV was not in the GB from 1948 to March 1953.

    

es orca”

2. Friendship with GUK and CHURANOV: ‘NOSENKO claims to be
an intimate friend of certain KGB officers, especially GUK and
CHURANOV, from whom he has obtained by word of mouth most of the
few operational items he has been able to provide outside his own
immediate sphere of activity. He mentions these two individuals
so often that that alone would deserve special attention. - Blit on

\ top of that these two individuals were, two of GOLITSYN's closest
contacts, from whom GOLITSYN also learned by word of mouth about
many operations -- sensitive oneS at that -- which he had no

i - Yet if, NOSENKO were in fact this close’ to them,

YN

 

   
  
 

iid hav have “Known | “NOSENKO

Cor ity remembers “only that there was a”.
better AS working in the American Department of the econ. Chief

a att

Directorate who had a_reputati a_s. = . There are
grounds here for sUSpicion that GUK and CHURANOV | gave honest
accounts of what they had told GOLITSYN in the KGB damage.
assessment of GOLITSYN's defection, and that NOSENKO is fabri-
cating this alleged friendship to explain how he had access to
the same information as GOLITSYN (some of which is outlined? in
Tab "D", Table #4), which he is using ~- at no cost to the | ‘KGB a
as build-up for himself. :

 

3. Personal Involvement in Key Accidents: NOSENKO; when ‘he
came out in 1964, had certain information which he particularly. ;
wanted to give us concerning practically all of the known | ve F
notorious incidents of Soviet security history in the. perio :
Since his last meetings with us. It appears to stretch. coincidence

   

y 3 : Pa

the SECRET

 
   

UW 50953 Docld:32318811 Page 3
 

 

——

to the limit that this one KGB officer, NOSENKO, was personally
involved in every one of them, and could thus talk -- and deliver
the KGB's "'message"’ -- with complete authority. Note his role

ases of Lee Harvey OSWALD, of Professor BARGHOORN, of
& of the CHEREPANOV affair (even to the point of
Showing a travel order for his use in the "search" for CHEREPANOY) .

and others. Note also his fortuitous friendship with Georgiy
BOLSHAKOV, which permitted him to recount in detail a provocative
\ version of BOLSHAKOV's dealings with the White House.

4, Order of Lenin and/or casé Award: NOSENKO mentioned in
January 1964 that he had received the Order of Lenin "shortly
after the 1962 meetings with us," as a result of ideas he
developed on how tovenlarge the experience and improve the
quality of staff personnel on the job. About a month later he
mentioned to one of his security guards that he had received a
large cash award (no date, but was then reluctant to say why; it
is not clear whether this is separate from the medal mentioned
earlier). New,_such medals and awards are not given for routine
contributions. However, it is possible that _NOSENKO | “could £ not
resist bragging about his medal (or féared” that we might p hear of
it through other sources), and that he actually got it for his
1962_meetings with_us == asthe timing would suggest. In fact,
ae OCCASION he pointedly asked whethér HYS"T962 case officer

 

had received an award from the 1962 meetings with him. And the ;-

cash award may have been related to a report from another source
that some officers of the American Department of the Second Chief
Directorate had gotten cash awards for the recruitment of one or
more Americans in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow around 1960 -- when
NOSENKO was in that Department. :

5. Claim to have Worked in Piace for Us: NOSENKO has
repeatedly said that he tried earnestly fo_collect..eweny,..bis bit ‘of
information—he_could for us during—the-period.. between the 19 the 1962
weetings and his defection in 1964, He uses his written ttén notes,

till peoenraunents Pe

Sr et ST ET CCAS
many of them on small scraps of paper, to document this claim.

 

   
 
 
  

item of positive intelligence, political or military, | 2ron h his . .
able”

many contacts, nor did he even..bring out. a a clear fA

Organization for r the First Chief Directorate, Ww h tia be had
for the asking by a person in his position. The nearly 200 .
operational leads he so earnestly collected do not, insofar as’
our traces to date permit us to judge, contain the identity ofa

single active agent with any current access. to.U.S».OL NATO.
claSsirtréed“tnfornation. .

   

 

6. Shift of Job Before Contact With Us: NOSENKO claimed to

have transferred from the American Department to the Tourist

je SECRET

  

Yet he clearlydid not try to collect even the most insignificant
A NS CAC AL SoS NO’ SS ARTES MORSE RE TER a at CRN TS

 

| MW 50953 Docld:32318811 Page 4

 

 
