 

BO ae re
2 . wom , SECRET eR, : ;

    
   

; “How tiueh infosaation GIA” has. developed :¢ over, :
the years concerning our operations activi

Nexico City is unknown, Hovweve :

mind ‘that: forker Spectral Agent’ andled
, many of our operatic in ico, including hey Lnuier
ypmants, “2nd : subsequently bégan performing services for!

; CIA after he left the Bureau. We also should not

forget that Americans operating in Latin American
countrics for one agency are heavily exposed to the -
.nesources. of, angther, ue es Inbelliconee. orinvestige have
agency. This Agent knovs from personal experience tha
operating in these areas constitutes a "very small worié" :
and the exposure to leaks and errors is considernsble, ol

  
 
  
    

      

ear~win

     

   

  
 
 

     

      

(3) THE ABEL CASE

 

    
   

; ; Althoush CEA has nov raised the point for :

: ‘several years, the preva viling attitude was, and probably !
still exists, that the FBI did not play ‘it. square with mo
OTA in tha feat ere hey nat mating gpeeeee th ate the ;
Agency was given the proper re ion for its contri- a
{butious, CIA feels that in

inst place, there would
‘not have been any U. S. access or availability to the
source in this c.se, Reino Hayhanen, because CIA took

the full responsibility for moving Hayhanen from France
fto the U. S. in 1957, CIA claims it took the risk and
tresponsibility of doing this after the Burensu declined
to become involved in any operation designed to transport
Hayhanen te the U.S. It should be noted that Havhanen
iWas an alcoholic and thet his first contacts with CIA:
in Paris raised questions concerning Hayhanen's mental
istebility.

After Hayhanen arrived in the U. 8., we.
Larrenged access to him for a period, the purpose of
which was to obtain a complete story of his intelli-
‘gence activitics in the U. S. and we were particularly
interested in idehtifying an ef his associates, es-
‘pecially the man who later was identified as Rudolph
Abel, After a short handling period in the U. S., we
dropped Hayhanen because he became a problea, It was
an extremcly critical situation because we had not yet
lidentified Abel, CIA agreed to take the responsibility
for the carrying and safeguarding of Hayhanen but ve

we . 2

e SEGRET

se , a 2

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 9
 

 

‘

  

 

  

  

th. far bettor.impressions than in. the
i@ition, we have 1 ned more about these.

ix Services, and their. security chi
minut with them, “I .e55 to-say
ient has also. immeasurably helped |

 
 
   
     
 

countries

 

  

 
  

    

this king of trent
our Legal Attaches,

  

    
   

INTEREST IN SOVIDT BSBICHAGE ACTI

  

tigatine individuals in

‘yas in the process of i :
ho allece d been engaged in Soviet-espionare
vactLivity. The wanted to have certain,individuals

‘in the U, S, interviewed and approache CO make
Angulry at the Bureau. At that time, our Felations
‘With the mad been practically nonexistent because

  
  
  
  
   
  

  

ithe aijed to honcstly ,ieal with us in the
‘case oO] fficinl who hac been

 

 

    

co7
we would not handle the ir
stuck to our positicn.
we were impairing their efforts to gathor information
leoncerning Soviet-espionage activities in Europe.
Walter G, Krivitsky, Bufile - 100-11146)

  

riawe ~

 

 

(8) COLONEL JOT GROMBACH (PAT O'REIEA) “

Colonel dehn Grombach was o retired U. S,
‘Army officer wo, during World War Ii, established a
private. intelligence network, operating throughout the
world but prinnrily in Europe, His sources included
any number of European exiles who came to the U. S.
While he was in business, he was finaneed by the State
Department, then -the Department of the Army, and in the
later 1640's and into the 1950’s by CIA, Grombach
established contact with the Bureau through one of
his subordinates, Pat O'Brien, who periodically called

}

SECRET

-~7T=

 

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 10

 

 

Security Agency, Soraya }
hat the ould submit their reauest
T : Tplonatic channels. We subsequently tol G)

 
 

 

 

O QO

SECRET

    

CASES ANDAC- SUETUATIGYS: :
INVGLYV1: Cava SICTS WIT 'PHE- Ee
ouCe AGENCY (CIA) -

Ee a tay nanos nae

  
 

Tv RORIS HORRCS CASE)

 

 

+

tive Soviet-espionage case
; _or ’ ain. nd terminated for the most
"pape La F557 2° The ‘ease dnany wide*foréign’ ramifi~
eations and historically has been, and undcubtedly
will be, one of the most inportant and involved cases
of Soviet orerstions in this country and abroad, We
did not disseminate anv information of significance
in this case until 1654, On various oceasions when
the Linison Agent has become involved in heated arsu-
ments with CIA officials, they have seen fit to raise
this case as an outstanding example of FBI failure to
cooperate with the Agency. The position taken by CIA
as that it should have been advised regarding the
Soviet operational activity in forcicn countries,
claiming that the Agency would have had the opportunity
to develon more information of Significance, identify
Soviet sr its, and pocsibly prepare conditions for
,recru.tne:ct or doubling. of Soviet operatives. We did
‘hot disseminate our reports to CIA because of the
‘extreme sensitivity of the ease, We actually did not
“permit CIA to tandle any investigations relating to
{the MOCASE until 1957,

“OS G B@ns

 

by

 

     

 

    
 

 

In 1957, CIA complained that it certainly had
every right to have raecived the information carlier
because many aspects of the NCCASE pertained to CIA ~
employces and onerations. CIA further argued that it
had been greatly handienpped in effectively carrying out
the leads in 1857 because the leads were fiven to the
Agency at the same time that the case was publicized,

“The agency armucd’th2t the failure of the Bureau to
coordinate with CIA those French aspects of the case
permitted the French, rather than the U. 8., to play a

| dominating rele in Europe,

an prcoro Rerense (eR 92-109)
- - AE. $9 fee Si ORET
- Gre) aHee Ha/ 9g

 

 

 

   

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 6
 

 

 

 
    

: (7) Live Sources in the Non-Bloc Area.. Sources
See 8 such as d diplomats are a fertile field for °
procurement of much-needed intelligence relating to the”
: activities of certain men American and Middle Eastern”
jterrorist activities, even to: the. United States.. I do-not.
feel confident that both agencies have adequately exploited
the full potential of this field, and would urge that this
{subject be SP eee by our paar representatives.

 

 

 

. (8) There is already
a substantial tial exchange of information in this field. Limi-
tations of manpower raise a serious question as-to whether
both agencies can keep pace with future unpredictable
developments. The increasingly close connection between
these forces in the United States and hostile elements
a oe abroad has been well established by both of our agencies.
I feel it would be in our mutual interest to determine how
we can best eiplov more Wisely our Lunited manpower,
knowing that this problem, which embraces bombings,
hijacking, assassination, and the demeaning of law enforce-
ment officers, is international in scope.

 

(9) Relations with Domestic Field Offices and Legal
Attaches. I T do not feel that there are any serious conflicts -
Tn this area but there may be room for improving the quality
of liaison in order to expand positive intelligence collection,

» | Given the changing situations both here and abroad, periodic
re-examination of field relations could assist both agencies

to make mutually-agreed adjustments.

 

Mr. Hoover, I wish to assure you that I value highly your personal .
judgment in affairs bearing on the national security. I know that your
experience is derived from a unique lifetime of dedicated service to our
country. In this spirit,” ] welcome sincerely your observations on the
foregoing agenda and solicit your thoughts regarding any other item
which you deem worthy of the attention of your Bureau and this Agency.

Faithfully yours,

ON, “ oe _° Richard Helms
‘ ; mo. ; Director

 

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 7

 

 

     
 

i

 

 
 

 

 

 

HW 50953

 

eo e2y Mail Coverage: *-Another much néeded inteli-_
| gence tool ‘is mail -coverage.. -Its-importance has, been oe ee
proven in the past. Ihave the impression thatithas

IBeen discontinued, and would suggest that our repréesen- |

tatives should confer and examine together whether this

asset might be deployed against communications of the

S

Soviet Pedi Left, and id ntifi
pete .* Ay? ere RE yea ui

  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

(3) CIA Technical Services. A significant expendi-
ture of this Agency's. moncy and personnel has been com-

mitted to research and development for the improvement

of technical aids. This Agency has provided-your Bureau

with an appreciation of cur resources and capabilities, and

has offered at cost or gratis our most sophisticated an

War ras

   
   

Although we will continue these services, we w
any suggestions from your Bureau for improvement in the

teclinical field including proposals how these assets can be

better employed. Your comments will be particularly

appreciated in view of our mutual interests in implementing
Operation gs) . , . oo, S

 

 

(4) Courses in Positive Intelligence Requirements and
Reporting, Since the collection and reporting of positive
foreign intelligence is, as you say, only incidental to your
‘main internal security and counterintelligence responsibili-
ties, I realize that your personnel are somewhat at a dis-
advantage in carrying out the evaluating and reporting
processes necessary for the conduct of positive intelligence.
At our 1966 conference we offered to institute positive intel-
ligence training courses, including reports writing and -

we theo AOL ¢ Hed lege nates chien std LA
lectnese! en tetlipines 3 Cuthee Civ

SECRET.

Bocld:32169180 Page 5

 
 

 

 

HW 50953

 

 

‘ analysis; ‘for FBI personnel, - In ‘soliciting your views on : Boe
| the desirability. of this type of training,. I wish to reiterate cL tanec th cctevee aunt

our willingness to provide such instruction. It would be
designed to expose the needs of the Intelligence Community”
in depth, thus making the Current Intelligence Reporting
List (CIRL) more meaningful to > your personnel.

      

Seminars. on: Oppo sition: Services. “Given the”

‘growing sophistication and increased capabilities of hostile

intelligence services, it is suggested that CIA and FBI
experts in this field meet as required at our respective
Headquarters, the Washington and New York Field Offices,

‘|in order to keep abreast of new developments, modus

operandi, operational tasks, and diverse missions of
opposition services. I know that you will agree with me
that'no opportunities for improvement should be over-~

 

tankad whisk might help te necate the effarts of hostile

services who are charged with undermining the security

' of the United States. These sessions should also provide ©
an opportunity to explore and devise new means to pene~

trate and neutralize these inimical forces.

: (6) Live Bloc Sources. The record of our coopera~
tion and coordination to exploit live penetrations and defec-
tors from Bloc sources proves the success of our mutual
effort, : :
' I believe that there is room for substantial improve-
ment in achieving a more uniform and efficient exploitation
of the positive intelligence potential of certain of these
Sensitive sources. ' | would invite your thoughts on how we
may better coordinate requirements for these sources and
establish a more thorough evaluation of their positive ‘
intelligence production before it is given general dissemina-
tion within the Government. Our review would suggest,that
there are good reasons for consultation to explore ‘the
development of higher quality live sources, for example

4

SECRET

Baocld:32169180 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

    
   
 
 
    

woe % ~ ™~ FY
See og LAS YPED STAT 'S GOVERNMENT

 

ilemorandum } sees: J. te

Fue Prier belease eas are
are Conan S8 (on

ro - Tne Darector
CLASS. & EXT.
- REASON-FCIM II,
FROM : SA Sam Papich ~ DATE OF REVIEW
. 2, 520 _ ; oe
: ALL INFORMATION contarIN §— °24¢ 270 OW fy ik 2
SUMECT “pELAgIONS WHETME CTA HEREINIS UNCLASSLFLED p wae Beckers ey)

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN DAVE, Baca) yethe
OTHERWISE a en
made to-my lettors dated March’ 2 and
letter of March 5, 1970, I- stated "it

i the Burcau can also produce
gvievances.”. It. is my under-
ved that thig lisy be identivic
approximately 75 items...)

 

\ , Reference i
March 5, 197G, In m
is impertant to empha
an extensive list of
standing that the
Enclosed herevith is

  
  
  
 
 

  
         

This list
Preposation wars
f review of Bureau
Really cea

should not be considered absolutely comp)
ted on my personal recollection and a i
To aake this list more conplete cud

    
  
  

 

   

     
 

 

sp neceusitate the review of thousands
of f3 Yhao cnelos : to can be sunported by Burcau records
Wai © peeved perscca vib Lan Sante 2ue AS WHANO Vi. Enis

also must be kent in mind in councetion with our evaluation

of the alleged CIA grievances which I previously listed, “2

I renlize that it is presumptuous on ny part, but

 

      

{if the Director feels that our Durean work can benexit by 2
ipersons :h diseunsion between the D ctor and myfclit, I am
javadiable until April 3, 1976. I plan to leave the area.

.jdumediately herent ter | for an extended period,

ACTION: REG: ¢ oi éd~ £07 50- . oY

Kos SSR eee b.
me

    
 

For information. f

CHA HAS NO OBJECTION yo fo APN~2 3b

   

Enclosure

 

1- Deloach
1- . Sullivan.y
1. « Papich

oy cre
~ ates St

 

 

  

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 2
 

     

 

   

S|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10168-10040
RECORD_SERIES: HQ -
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116391-41X

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: _PAPICH, SAM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1970
PAGES: 85
SUBJECT: CIA ACT, ANTI-CASTRO ACT

DOCUMENT. TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW

CLASSIFICATION: 5°" CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 11/03/1998 UPDATE DATE: — 02/12/2001

STATUS _ Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1){A)
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

 

COMMENTS: EBF, INC ADMIN PAGES

J

X

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page i
 

 

\

eee SERRE

 

 

“CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Val
~ WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 — ee ,

    

= COFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

ae ee ne K parueted Red oe. ves _ 20 March 1970 Lo :
KP al¢g eng

 

The Honorable.J. Edgar Hoover |
Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Weshington, D.C.

  
 

® Dear Mr. Hoover:

 

i

j We have completed cur review of domestic positive intelligence
? ‘collection engendered by your letter of ll March 1970. We warmly
? welcome periodic reexamination by our two agencies of the implemen-
tation ci cne 1960 a: BLeeliviie EwrKes wie UV Le Genuae UL posuiive amzciii 2
which you proposed. Il concur alse with your comments that there is
a need for close coordination of our efforts in the field of positive and
counterintelligence coliection, To be most effective, l agree that it
is essential for this Agency, tcgether with your Bureau, to conduct a
| continuing analysis of clandestine collection activity. The product is
of growing importance to the national security and to the United States
Intelligence Cornmunity, Therefore we endorse your proposal for a
reexamination and bespeak your desires as to how this might be
conducted.

 

 

 

 

With regard to the 1966 set of ground rules, which you sent to ;
the then Director, Vice Admiral William F. Raborn, Jr., the compe-
ytent work of our respective representatives did, in fact, produce an
,effective and realistic agreement. Iwelcorne your statement that no
P major problems have been encountered since its adoption.

Ba

   

Fa

  

I feel strongly that there are other related subjects, of similar
mportance to the national security, which warrant periodic recxamina-

‘tion since they have a direct bearing on domestic clandestine coll Legpion
of positive intelligence.

   
  
 

 

“MAR 20 1970.

oy
|

va
: a

i

Gids? 1
_ A Exclate? tre:
t:

   

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32169180 Page 3

 
 

ah

 

 

 

 

-As a result of our review, engendered by your letter, I believe
- that, the following subjects are deserving of your personal consideration: _—

ad

 

   

“ay” Audie coverage!’ “Audio coverage provides timely
intelligence of inestimable worth to U.S. officials for |
policy planning, early warning, and accurate guidance
necessary for the improvement. of operational and collec-
tion activity here and abroad, Audio coverage is unique

a production because itis- readily subject to- local cross-...: cyst

checking and evaluation which is far more difficult and
costly to achieve abroad. Further, such coverage is on
targets which affect directly the national interests.

: For several years your Bureau had been recep-
tive to requirements and leads which resulted in valuable
coverage. The quality of your production proved that

 

your Burcau alonc possesses capabilitics and cuporiones

which cannot be duplicated by any other U.S. agency.

 

On 2 October 1969 two related requests for audio
coverage were submitted by this Agency pertaining to
positive intelligence targets, one of whom had KGB connec-
tions (I refer to the case of QReeeSears Sond Gee
‘ see .) Your Bureau replied that henceforth the
Agency should refer all such cases dir ectly to the > Attorney
General for approval.

 

 

 

It is suggested that the question of audio coverage
beireopened between representatives of your Bureau and
this Agency. I would welcome your thoughts and observa-
tions on this subject.

I wish to assure you ‘that I believe that this sensitive
type of collection should be implemented under rigid and
stringent controls. This is absolutely necessary in order to
maintain the highest standard of security both in instituting
the coverage and for the exploitation of the product, (An
excellent example of this is demonstrated in your effective
and secure production of SCOPE.) ¥$)

2

SECRET

 

 

 

HW 50953 DoclId:32169180 Page 4
