 

 

 
  
 
    

 

, . SECRED

CIA HAS MO U8

  

1. While serving as Political Officer in, the; U,
jcity from 1964 to 1967, I became quite’ friendl: ywithet
jvight, Elena Garro de Paz. An intel gent, witty Pe Ty
| I found her a very useful if sometimes bia ed source.of politi al gossip -
{ and personal history on significant Mexies ‘personalities, She ‘introduced
i my wife and me to many important people in Mexico. She was also .parti-~

cularly knowledgeable about agrarian affairs. A biographic report that

I prepared on her on May 3, 1966 is attached (Tab A).

 

           
 

2. On one occasion, Miss Garro inadvertently mentioned to me that she
had been at a party with Lee Harvey Oswald and two American companions
| when Oswald was in Mexico just before the Kennedy assassination. The
party had been at the home of her cousin, Ruben Duran. ° The memorandum
x of that conversation, dated December 10, 1965, is attached (Tab B). I
- had not read the Warren Report, but I assumed that if Oswald had been
= to such a party in Mexico, it would have been well known to the Embassy.
aa Re I also knew Miss Garro to be something of a professional anti-communist
“ ~~
No
8
~
RS

 

who tended to see a communist plot behind any untoward political event,
However, the episode about her being escorted into hiding’ at an obscure
hotel intrigued me. Accordingly, I decided to report the matter in
writing. I gave the memorandum of conversation limited distribution
within the Embassy, and did not send any copies to Washington. .

  
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
      
 
 

3. A few days later I was called to the office of Mr. Winston’ Scott,
: who headed the Enbassy'efFolitical Research SectiomR(CIA). Also present
! ‘ was Mr. Nathan Ferris, the Embassy's Legal Attache (FBI). They had noted
with interest my December 10 memorandum of conversation. They pointed
out that there had been a great many rumors about Oswald at the time of
the assassination and that some could not be verified and others had
proved false. They asked me, however, to try and get a-more detailed
replay of Miss Garro's story. Mr. Scott made clear that the FBI had“fult
responsibility for any further investigations of the Oswald case}

 

' 4, In a memorandum of conversation dated December 25, 1965 (Tab CY, I
; provided a much more detailed and accurate restatement of: Miss. Garro!

: alleged encounter with Oswald and Subsequent developments:* ne
| ; in my original presentation were corrected. Miss Garro! gué:
j

i

  

date of the party at her cousin's house was’ in early Septémbe
admitted that she had gone to the Embassy to report briefly abdul
* i on an earlier occasion. tote aa

HW 50953 Docld: 32144387 Page 2
 

24-10073-1042

i)

:

   

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: ~~ FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10073-10424
RECORD SERIES: MX
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-1363A

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: . 00/00/0000
PAGES: 34
SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5612

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

 

ORIGINAL Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW _ DATE: — 09/24/1997 UPDATE DATE: 06/08/2001

STATUS  Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HW 50953 Docld: 32144387 Page 1

  
 

Durans after the assassination about .a party which Oswald had reportedly
attended, but that the ‘transeript of: the interrogation was entirely
unsatisfactory by normal, investigatory,standards. Furthermore, the party
inquired about was not. the one at Ruben .Duran's house, reported by
. Elena Garro, but at an entirely different place. This transcript may
well be the source of Mr.’ Ferris'.belief that Elena Garro's story had been
~- ~---~-@heeked out and found to be.untrue, i

10. It would appear that whereas, the FBI has discounted the Elena Garro

allegations, the CIA is: still considerably disturbed by them. The CIA
_....may not have pressed for further investigation, however, for a number of

reasons: 1) considering the sensitive overlap and subtle competition

between two intelligence collecting agencies, it had to yield to the

FBI's clear jurisdiction; ‘,2) there are obvious complications in conducting

such an investigation in-.a-;foreign, country; 3) there is close and

See delicate relationship between th L, tation Chief and
and 4) some of the people
App éaring in é éna Garro Scenario may well be agents of. the CIA. . Under

the circumstances it is.unlikely that any further investigation of this
matter will ever take place unless it is ordered by a high official in,
Washington. ye ‘ . sO

ie

11. If all the allegations in the attached memoranda were true, they
would not, in themselves, prove that there was a conspiracy to assassinate
President Kennedy. However, if they were ever made public, those who

have tried to discredit the Warren Report could have a field day in .
speculating about their implications. The credibility of the Warren Report
would be damaged all the more if it were learned that these allegations
were known and never adequately investigated by the competent’ American
.authorities. — i :

12. Reference is made again to the biographic report (Tab A) on Elena
“Garro. She is hardly an ordinary or average person. Her strengths and
wo weaknesses become. exaggerated precisely because she is not. It would
. mo be easy and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming

vewthat-Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since she is emotional,
opinionated, and "artistic." I have been affected at times by that
temptation, myself. No American official, however, knows her better than
Ido. On the basis of the facts that I have presented, I believe that,
on balance, the matter warrants further investigation.

13. Finally, the record should show that a representative of.a major
American publication has at least some knowledge of this story.

Charles William Thomas . oy :
wae uly. 25, 1969 ee ee seat

 

 

 

“BECRED

 

  

 

  

HW 50953 Docld: 32144387 Page 3

 

 

 
