 

 

sh

. the White House, indicates a Libyan attorney, Abdussalam Nafa,

 

| OSA GEN. REG, NO, 27 . Tolson

ONITED STATES GOYERNMENT : @ Mehr
! . Bishop —
; Cosper —____
Memorandum . estes ——
. . : Felt
GONE cee
TO =: Mr. DeLoach DATE: June 19, 1968 Sullivan
Le Mr, DeLoach Tovel ——_——.
. . Lo we Rosen Tele. Room
FROM : A, Rosen 1 « Malley. Holmes —
. . le Shroder =
1 - oe Schutz 1 Mr, Gale
SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF 1 - ur McGowan 1 ~ Mr. Sullivan
SENATOR ROBERT F, KENNEDY i ~ ~ Bishop Ll - Mr. Mohr
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA WeinBoomen 1 ~ Mr, Trotter
The following concerns most recent developments «
in connection with our investigation into the assassinations) i
of Senator Robert F, Kennedy, ’

     
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
  

BAY 1982 EDITION

 

 

A report from CIA, a copy of which was furnished

has offered to defend Sirhan Bishara Sirhan, According to
these accounts, Nafa has offered his services free of charge
and suggested that if it were not possible for him to defend
Sirhan in court he be authorized to select an attorney who -is
a member of the California Bar Association, .Nafa has been
issued a three-month visitor's visa by our embassy in Tripoli
and is described by CIA as having been active in the defense ~
of the Arab nationalist movement in Tripoli earlier this year.
Pepe on available information he is unidentifiable in Bureau
iles.

Our Los Angeles Office reports. that a check of
the Selective Service Headquarters records for the State of
California shows no registration for Sirhan Sirhan or his.
brothers Saidallah Sirhan and Munir Sirhan, The remaining
brothers Sharif and Adel Sirhan are both registered with ©
local board 91, Pasadena,’ California,

Our Los Angeles Office in noting the failure to
register on the part of Saidallah and Munir Sirhan advised
that all four brothers have apparently been cooperative and
have readily furnished background information relative to
the activities of Sirhan Sirhan, Los Angeles was of the
Opinion that to pursue the Selective Service aspect insofar
as Saidallah and Munir are concerned at this time could
possibly adversely affect their cooperative spirit which
has existed thus far,

ACTION:
In view of the above there is attached for approval,

Enclosure

Ys) - ) ,
cc a CONTINUED ~ OVER
