 

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of {59s (4d USC Zi07 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017
* “ 7

te . es : ia - ee

| . -
| oes ~

PG 92-226-Sub 2

fied
AC system. The receiver's output will be fitted into one
of several available telephone lines, one of which will be
leased and conducted to the Pittsburgh Office Control Plant.
The receiving antenna can, if necessary, be extended outside
the window and.will not be obvious in view of other wires
connected to and handing from this building.

It is believed that this radio-microphone technique is
technically feasible for the following reasons:

1. There is an unobstructed aerial passage between
the North Star Cement Block Company and the second
floor of the Westinghouse Plant; the distance between
these two locations is approximately 475 feet (see
sketch No. 1) whereas it is believed that under ideal
conditions, the range of the MUTT might be as high as
one-half mile. “ . i

2, The receiving equipment to be located in the :
office on the second floor of the Westinghouse Plant
would not be subject to temperature fluctuations since
temperature is maintained at a constant 40 degrees. ©

_It is anticipated that the installation personnel would enter
the North Star.Cement Block Company surreptitiously. Prior
to this, all logical employees, associates, and relatives
of the subject, aS well as the subject himself, who might
come to the plant will be placed under surveillance. They
will be surveilled during the entire operation. SA personnel
who are acquainted with subject and key employees of the
plant will be placed in strategic positions to provide .
utmost security throughout the entire operation, Sufficient
personnel will be utilized to insure advance warning of any
possible approach by the afore-mentioned persons, It is
realized that trespaasswill occur but every precaution will
be taken to prevent any possibility of compromise.

 

Q

gees ESE

Docld: 32332926 Page 6

 
 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey—

DATE: .11-14-2017 C , . . - :

APPENDIX

Details of Proposed Installation

Pursuant to Bureau authority, dated December 27, 1960, a
survay was conducted to determine the feasibility of install-
ing a misur on top hoodlum LA ROCCA'Ss private office at the
North Star Cement Block_Company, 12 Mc Candless Avenue,
Pittsburgh, Pa. The(Survay was successfully completed and
provided the following-information:

All known ways and means of establishing a misur were carefully
considered. In due consideration of all aspects of the pro-

blem, it would appear that a radio-microphone technique \
employing the MUTT Transmitter is feasible and is the preferred |
choice under the existing conditions presented by this case.
This choice was made in view of the following factors relat-
ing to the technical problems, security considerations, and
investigative advantages: fi ca

(1) It is recognzed that the use of telephone wiring disguises

are generally considered more secure than the use of radio-
microphone techniques. In this case, however, telephone
disguises do not appear desireable because of the following:

(a) Subject's private office contains two "hold"
telephone instruments while one “hold" instrument

is located in the General Office. These instruments

are serviced by three twisted-pair lines which, accord-

ing to the telephone company Source, run directly from

the Central Office to the cement plant. This condition

would, therefore, preclude use of the Bureau's disguised
four-conductor parallel type wire since the appearance
_of parallel-type wire in an area where twisted-pair
“wire is used exclusively might arouse the curiosity

of telephone company employees and possibly would be i
also noticed by the subject or his associates, thereby

presenting a security hazard. In this connection, it
is realized that a SPMI unit might be used to operate
a microphone or Mouse unit on one of the telephone
lines without additional wires. However, it is also
realized that in using such a unit, it is necessary to

loop the telephone line through the monitoring plant \
which must be located somewhere between the subject's

} | 92. 2940-7 so
-l-
ENCLOSUBE

 

 

Docld: 32332926 Page 3
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

 

v9.1

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2018

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90104-10225
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 92-2940-71
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: — 00/00/0000
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

1B

Redact

07/31/1998

INDEFINITE

APPENDIX

 
 

 

 

_ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Howe} -
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘ ‘ , —~ ; :
(~ . a : '

PG 92-226-Sub 2

telephone instrument and the telephone company Central ;
Office. Such an arrangement would require a local
monitoring plant and additional monitoring persennel.

(b) The possibility of using underground wires for
microphone egress in this case does not appear to be
feasible inasmuch as it would be necessary to route
the underground cable for a distance of approximately
3/10's mile to a point where connection could be

made to telephone wires leading to a plant. Further,
the extent of the wire laying operations, terrain :
conditions, and the factor of the industrial area i:
could possibly present security problems. i

(2) It would appear that the recently developed MUTT Trans-

mitter, a transistorized AC powered mindature unit, together

with appropriate receiving equipment would be feasible in |
this installation whereas previougyolder battery powered |
equipment was suitable only for short-term installations |
where operation for a few days would generally provide the i
desired coverage. It would be expected that the MUTT unit ‘
over an extended period of operation might result in failure ;
of transistors or other components. However, due to the ,
miniaturization of the MUTT Transmitter and its related AC

power supply, either the febet tter or power supply could

be readily replaced by a eeeyene unit held in’ stand-by.

reserve in the event of a failure. It is pelieved that such

an. infrequent replacement could be made without constituting

undue security risks.

The’ North Star Cement Block Plant is located approximately :
135 feet south-west of McCandless Avenue and fronts south-

east on an un-named alley (see sketch 1)*extending from

McCandless Avenue south-west to 51st Street. This un-named

alley terminates at both Mc Candless Avenue and 51st Street.

The distance from the intersection of this unknown alley

and McCandless Avenue to the intersection of Harrison Street

and McCandless Avenue is approximately 265 feet.

Subject's private office is located in the rear nobth-west
section of the general office of the plant as illustrated
and marked in sketch No. 2. The general office is an
addition of the plant proper. ALT exterior walls of the
general office, the plant and the common wall between the

 

Docld: 32332926 Page 4
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘ ‘ ; . ,

 

PG 92-226-Sub 2

general office and the plant are of cement block construction. //
The roof.of the general office is of corrugated galvanized :
metal. There iS no crawl space beneath the general office

or plant. The floor is solid cement and is not covered with
any carpeting. The roof and interior ceiling are separated
by a distance of 4 inches at the northeast end and diverge
slightlyat a point where the general office connects with the
plant proper. The ceiling rafters run in a northeast--south-
east direction. The interior cement block wails are not
panelled but are painted. Partitions in the general office

are constructed of frame and finished with a type of composition

panelling. This composition panelling, each’ piece of which
is approximately 3 x 5 feet, is also used on the ceiling
and a 14 inch molding covers the joints.

It is proposed that one variable reluctance microphone, a MUTT
Transmitter and an AC power supply be installed between —

the ceiling and roof at the point designated "x" on sketch 3.
Ingress to this point can be made by removing the ceiling
exhaust fan. It is mot known how extensively this ceiling
exhaust fan is used, but inasmuch as this office is air-
conditioned, it is surmised that use of the exhaust fan is
limited. This unit would be energized by running a pair of

"wires from point "X" southeast between the rafters. to the

southeast wall of subject's private office and thence drop-
ping the wires down the wall making the connection to the

Wall box of the designated electrical wall outlet. It is
believed that the amount of power consumption of the MUTT
Transmitter is not critical. It is also believed that one
transmitter maintained in the ceiling will afford effective
coverage. Investigation and observation reflects that

it is practical and secure to mount the remote receiving
equipment in the second floor office of the Westinghouse
Plant, designated by a star in sketch No. 1. The Westinghouse
Electric Plant is not in use and is devoid of equipment. It is
maintained by a small staff of maintenance employees plus
three guards who alternate shifts. Contact under pretext
with the manager of real estate for the Westinghouse Corpora-
tion has assured authority and security in this respect.

It is proposed that a box capable of being locked be used

to house the remote receiving equipment. This box will be
fastened in the afore-mentioned office near other unused
telephone boxes in the immediate vicinity of a window for
disguise and will be energized through the plant's 117 volt

 

 

Docld:32332926 Page 5

(44 USC 2107 Hote).

 

 
