 

 

ee

IG 62-0+19280

If information from(UF 56F oSk Ns disserinatea,C SO
it should be classified “Seeret - No Foreign Dissemination’
and should be suitably paraphrased, since it contains cD
informstion furnished by[e sensitive source in the Israeli C
field. \ In the event iP prepares e communication which ray
subsequently be disseminated and which includes information
From\VF 568«5*,) the cover commmication should explicitly cs}
State that the LHM, or report, contains inforration which .
should be designated(“SCOPE", | The Bureau will stamp the CS
document prior te dissemination,

Sines there is no indication that subject is presently
in the rred Services, it being noted that in his letter te
ils, cbhove, he furnished his erployment as Vitre Leboratortes,
Siiver Spring, Nd., and the fact that hts axzevet Location is
unknown, ne recormendstion is being made to further identify
Subject. However, NP should search its indices on subject
end furnish the Bureau and UFO the results thereof, It is
further requested that M? designate a copy of its reply to
the Bureau end UFO files on(the Eubessy of tsraeinVe}

 

 

 

HW 50953 DoclId:32319415 Page 9
 

 

 

 

DIRECTOR, PBI 7/18/69

     

SAC, FOG (62-G-19260} ree
SAMUEL P, BESZON a) a4. Cad .
MISCSLL NOUS - INFOMATION coNcEaNTNG; -GEAESIFIED BYSUS Sud geet
TS + ISR/EL ~~ DECLASSIFY ON: 288__ ACL

Be0rolet to Bureau dated 1/7/63, under first,
character above, ne copy H?, which enclosed a copy of a
letter dated 12/8/62, from subject to INS end in which he
indicated he had attended the U.S. Naval ceadery, “copy
of subject's letter is enclosed for the inforration of 16.

for the additional inforration of the Burecu and ~
Mir, on 7/10/69,(VF 56®-3* reportad|thet S*MUEL b. BFRZON (s », Lod
contacted the Lebessy of Israel {frer Minnesot:, \exect

ocation net_obtained by inforrent, at which time he

inquired of Miss PHINA :GLLECK, a secretary ct the Embassy, CS)
as to the status of « letter he had written to the “rbassy

a. few weeks ago. POLL ACK asked as to the nature of the

contents of the letter did subject said he did not cara

to discuss {ts contents ever the teleghone. However, he

did stete he has quite a militery beckground in the U.5.; a
hes not been able te get clearance to serve(in the Isrzeli Cc 5
Defense Forees, |singe he right lose his citizenship, but 4
theught (the Istéelis\might find sorething suitcble for hin. C %—
He mentioned thet his letter slso contains ‘many things of

© political nature", which he thought(the Israelis \should C$ J
know obout; that he had been(to the Prbessy le couple of so,
yeers ago; that he could not ec(te Toreet [then and thet he CS
could net reveal the reason why, but that he telé eli ebout

this in the letter.

feeording to informant [POLL ci) dia net give subject cs
an affirmative anawer as te the status of his letter, or as
te what ection vould be teken in the matter,

(>. Buresty
CL - (105-1082") (sipessy or rsavcn.) Cs i
% 2 + Winnespolis (Ene. 1) C2) i
2 - TPO . é) ‘
(1 -(105-524) CEMBSSSY GF ISR-EL G

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32319415 Page 6
 

50953 Dowld: 32319415 Page Fo.
SECRET

 

Durans after the assassination about.a party which Oswald had reportedly
. attended, but that the transcript of. the interrogation was entirely
“unsatisfactory by normal investigatory standards. Furthermore, the party
- ,: , inquired. about was not theione at. Ruben Duran's house, reported by . Lone
Elena Garro, but at an entirely: different place. This transcript may
- well be the source of Mr.: Ferris’ ‘belief that ‘Elena Garro's story’! had been -
checked out and found. to. be. untrue.”

   

: 10. It would appear: that: whereas. ‘the: ‘FBI has discounted the Elena Garro

‘ allegations, the CIA is still .considerably disturbed by them. The CIA
may not have pressed for further investigation, however, for a number of
reasons: 1) considering: the sensitive overlap and subtle competition
between two intelligence’ ‘collecting, agencies, it had to yield to the
FBI's clear jurisdiction;~'2)" there are obvious complications in conducting
such an investigation in a>foreign country; 3) there is a close and

delicate relationship between the CIA Station Chief 2p nel se peente CSy

maaan) se 98 BE FeORTE Oy
appearing in the Elena:Garro scenario, may wéll be agents of the CIA, Under
the circumstances it:is unlikely ‘that:any further investigation of this

matter will ever take place’ unless: itis ordered by a high official in
“Washington. . : : : : oe,

    
 

ll. If all the allegatio in: the attached memoranda were true, they

would not, in themselves,:prove ‘that. there was a conspiracy to assassinate a
-. President Kennedy. However, if they. were ever made public, those who

have tried to discredit the Warren Report could have a field day in

. Speculating about their implications. The credibility of the Warren Report

would be damaged all.the more if it: were learned that these allegations .

were known and never: r adequately’ i vestigated by the competent’ American

authorities.

 

12. Reference is made again to. the biographic report (Tab A) on Elena
“Garrao. ‘She is hardly ‘an ordinary: or average person.’ Her strengths and.
weaknesses become exaggerated: precisely because she is not. It would
_ be easy and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming
: that Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since she is emotional,
opinionated, and "artistic." I have been affected at times by that 7G
temptation, myself. No American official, however, knows her better than ose
Ido. On the basis of the facts that I have presented, I believe that, os
on balance, the matter warrants further investigation. .

(13. Finally, the record should show that a representative of a major —
American publication has at least ‘some knowledge of is story.

  
 
   

-_ ? Charles William Thomas a
-..° July. 25, 1969 :

  

 

 

 

HW 50953 Docld:32319415 Page 5
 

HW:.50953 Docld:32319415 Page 6

 
 

 

SECRET, “

 
 
  

11/6/69

| ws

Brena. JELIGAVCIC, aka i+ Mr. HeWd iidams

BAC, New York (65-23422)

ana,
Director, FBI (65-0227) SR)

=

rence is made to Department of Beate velearen
ted 30/25/08 from Enbasay Moscow, to 8tate Headquarters
(6-9) fyhich reported subject was ordered by the Soviets om 10/29/60
to leave the USGS. Copies of referenced telegram were
(4 previously fturni to New York and Chicago.

rer vork York ehould renein slert ¢ te return of subject
to the ted States for the purpose of interview concerning
oe) inforwation on Aim previcusly furnished by "Bas

ia mind during any forthcoming interview that. the soviets
have in the past expelied sedis the USER

  
  

 

Lisas 2D x Baws ye Tes

 

2° \
a NOTE:
ee Sammy, Soviet defector-ins pings, aavines’ titat” ‘the: 7th
223 Department, EGB, had been motinting ~ sa Mpatiet thepsubject, /
x American Sapress representative in Moscow. | We are desirous of
205 7 63 interviewing subject concerning what he kndws about the operation
ae against him. (It should be noted that Arse eae predecessor
as a of subject in Hoscow, was recruited and of admitted same.
a @ Pr oa vlfoss Nar i nssieiee "cin \
- ene SOG BS ‘ss. DECIABSH
{SEEREVERSE = #HU,4 RELEA
‘ | SIDE FOR IN THEE
| CLASSLFECATION F
ACTION ‘i

 

HOA ORED

 

 

| 50953 DoclId:32319415 Page 2
 

 

   

v9.1

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form ,
Agency Information

; AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10369-10049
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-H9
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ ,
TO: USSS
_ TITLE:
DATE: — 12/19/1969
‘PAGES: — 289
SUBJECTS : .
HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY
VOLUME XXI
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
-  CURRENTSTATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 03/20/1999
?
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, LIST, MEMO, A/T, LET, R/S, S/S, RAPSHEET, TTY, INSERT, FD-302, ENV,

TABS, NOTE, DRAFT MEMO, COURT ORDER, NEWS RELEASE

2

31

HW 50953 Docld:32319415 Page i

 
    

HW 50953 DoclId:32319415 Page 3

Preeen

 

   

5601 Potomac Avenue, N.W.
a ' ‘Washington, D. er 20016" a eit
{ as sa iTiee, a July 253 1969" oe
: te eirearse, ane 349/92) © Ss “
STeré Derr jn$o tS BEeeLmsS FAD REVIEWED | B
Gta Sipn> CPR on loess) V aie TASK FORCE

      

 
 

QAeKEFED IN Fo CLASSIFIED PD fen toe
(oh ea bes te Speer POR CIP) ° y aE alongs AR
Honorable William P. Rogers K Hot id FAL
Secretary of State oe rm ASE
Washington, D.C. 4 AoE IN PART
bee

Dear Mr. Secretary:

 

In winding up my affairs at the Department of State, there is | a pend-
ing matter which T believe merits your attention. .

‘Lee Harvey Oswald, the presumed assassin of President Kennedy, was
alledgedly present at:a party given by a Mexican communist sympathizer
‘and ‘attended by the Cuban Consul, a veteran intelligence. ,officer, when
he was in Mexico shortly before the assassination. There are allega~
tions that the Mexican Government may have been aware of Oswald's
_presence at that. party and that the Cuban Government may have tried to
intimidate others who saw him there. :

A careful investigation of these allegations could perhaps explain

them away. Until then, however, their public disclosure ‘could reopen °
the debate about the true nature of the Kennedy assassination and

| damage the credibility of the Warren Report.

 

Since I was the Embassy officer, in. . Mexico who acquired this intelli-

st gence information, I. feel a responsibility for seeing it. through to

Q@its final evaluation.’ Accordingly, I have prepared a memorandum
“ (enclosed) explaining this information and its initial assessment, keyed

he to three memoranda of conversations with my Mexican informant.

I believe you would want to consider carefully whether to let well
enough alone in this case, or whether the risks attending possible
public disclosure of these allegations make further investigation

   

warranted¢ .
os : _ Respectfully,
ae he OC A phat te
Charles William Thomas
_ Enclosure: mid

Memorandum and four attachments.

 

+ : . _o . . hoes Le wee +
 

MA REIL OTIY

ist

      

re oe ai
swald in Mexico

 

SUBJECT: Investigation of Lee Harvey 0

1. While serving as Political Officer in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico
1City from 1964 to 1967, I became quite friendly with the Mexican play-
jvight, Elena Garro de Paz. . An intelléegent, witty, and outspoken woman,
/ I found her a very useful if sometimes biased source of political gossip
i and personal history on significant Mexican personalities. She introduced
' my wife and me to many important people in Mexico. She was. also.parti-
. cularly knowledgeable about agrarian affairs. A biographic report that
I prepared on her on May 3, 1966 is attached (Tab A). .

2. On one occasion, Miss Garro inadvertently mentioned to me that she
had been ‘at a party with Lée Harvey Oswald and two American companions
when Oswald was in Mexico just before the Kennedy assassination. The ©
party had been at the home of her cousin, Ruben Duran. ° The memorandum
of that conversation, dated December 10, 1965, is attached (Tab B). I
had not read the Warren Report, but I assumed that if Oswald had been :
to such a party in Mexico, it would have been well known to the Embassy.
I also knew Miss Garro to be something of a professional anti-communist
who tended to see a communist plot.behind any untoward political event.
However, the episode about her being escortéd into hiding at an obscure

= hotel intrigued me. Accordingly, I decided to Yeport the matter in
writing. I gave the memorandum of conversation limited distribution
within the Embassy, and did not send any copies to Washington.

3. <A few days later I was called to the office of Mr. Winston Scott,
who headed the Embassy's Political Research Section (CIA). “Also present
: ; ’ was Mr. Nathan Ferris, the Embassy's Legal Attache (FBI). - They had noted
with interest my December 10 memorandum of conversation. They pointed
"out that there had been a great many rumors about Oswald at the time of |
the assassination and that some could not be verified and others had |
proved false. They asked me, however, to try and get a more detailed !
replay of Miss Garro's story. Mr. Scott made clear that the FBI had full |
responsibility for any further investigations of the Oswald case: \

4. In a memorandum of conversation dated December 25, 1965 (Tab Cc), I
provided a much more detailed and accurate restatement of Miss Garro's
alleged encounter with. Oswald and subsequent developments. Certain errors
in my original presentation were corrected. Miss Garro guessed that the
date of, the party at her cousin's house was’ in early September, 1963. She
admitted: that she had gone to the Embassy to report briefly about this matter
on an earlier occasion. © :

 

: To mee LM e ete age tet ae

 

HW 50953 Docld:32319415 Page 4
