 

 

 

124-10167-10373

 

 

 

oo

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET.

I, A. 11. c. INTELLIGENCE - COUNTERINTELLIGENCE | =

Program Deséription: ' a : | oo

The purpose of this program is to. develop foreign counterintelligence

assets in an effort to (1) identify foreign intelligence officers and

agents in the United States, (2) penetrate foreign intelligence services

in the United States, and (3) neutralize effectiveness of foreign intelligence
services in the United States. : .

Successful implementation of the above program will assist in the deter-
mination of individuals engaged in espionage which is detrimental to the
internal security of the United States and allow for the further development
of assets. The economic and social problems of the public will be further ~
safeguarded by the proper utilization of valuable assets.

Establishment and- implementation of above program have made the general
public aware of Governmental problems and the public's usefulness in a
democratic form of government. As a result of this program, numerous -
individuals have been arrested and prosecuted and many foreign nationals
have also been declared personna non grata, | —

Efforts employed to: further the above- mentioned program include the
investigation, development and direction of individuals who are chosen on
a selective basis.

There is no substitute or alternative program to the successful utilization
of a live asset. The above program has on occasion been reevaluated and |
it is felt it is necessary and mandatory to meet its properly stated objectives:

The identity of an asset may be prematurely divulged, and of course, there
would be a risk involved in the operation of the above program. Further,
diplomatic relations may be strained as the result of divulging the use of
assets against foreign officials or establishments.

i
|
i

 

Although the above program may ‘be operated successfully without the

continually maintained with the CIA, U. S. Department of. State, military 7 rr

“SECRET
Classified by 9 Se

Exempt from GDS, Gategory__2°and ; and 3
. Date of Declassification Indefinite

APPENDIX E 7 1

 
