o

Doc ID! 6598287 ,“

 

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FORT GEORGE G- MEADE, MARYLAND 207SS-6000

N5P4-033-95
1 June 1995

 

Mr. David Marwell

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW, 2nd Floor
Washington, DC 20530

Dear Mr. Marwell:
(FOQUO) In response to your letter of March 9, 1995 we tasked appropriate elements of

NSA Operations and Archives as well as the Legislative Affairs Office (LAO) and Office of
General Counsel (OGC) to search for information responsive to your questions. The following
represents the composite response of these elements. : :
(U) “What technical capabilities did NSA have during the early 1960’s for collecting,
deciphering, and analyzing communications?”
—esnCeey NSA had an excellent capability to meet the SIGINT challenges of the 1960's. We
had field sites in position to copy the signals of interés: in the USSR, both High Frequency and
s exchanged internationally berween coun-

Line-of—Sigit, in Cuba, and those communicagon
ties. We accomplished this through a mixture of fixed sites manned by armed forces personnel,

airbome and shipborne platforms, exchanges with Second and Third Parties, and clandestine and
hered communications of interest,

special sources. We exploited many encip
cormmunications and those of a few other countries that employed very sophis~,
ticated cryptosystems. Our analytic capabilides were excellent, both in our civilian and military |

workforce. C2107(6)(1)(B)

(U) “What COMINT did NSA actually intercege during
Union, Cuba, and Mexico, from organized crime or international

—FS—CESENS A produced COMINT on many facets of the Soviet target,
munications to military

 

 

the early 1960’s from uéDovier f

dmg smuygglers?2-" a

    
 

 
  
  
 

exploiting, many low—to—medium grade

deavors,
products on all facets

these targets.. On the Cuban target, we prodiiced many

 
 

 

cipher systems on
as weli, from military gonimand and contest

communications. We also produced product on
There were no reflections in any of these prod-
been related to the assassinacon, only post-assassination re-
| developments and Cuban releases of statements denying
One organization did follow international arms rade
thing to Ue any of their reporting to the as-

   
   

gets, mainly
ucts of any activiry that might have
flections of U.S. political and protoco
crime or narcotics smuggling ac that ume.
activity and issued product reports, but there was no
sassinaton. .

(U) “What actions did NSA taki
sination? For example, did any agency

¢ in the immediate wake of President Kennedy’s assas-

task NSA to perform any funcdons regarding ne assas-
sination? Was any task force, group directorate, or other entity at NSA formed or charged with
any responsibilities for collecung information that in any way pertained to the assassination of
President Kennedy? Was any traffic analysis performed? Were any product reports produced?

Were there any TSRs?

    

017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

ANS aeope ETS

 

Released on 11

 

 

 
Doc ID? 6598287
DATE: anata
Pace:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA
RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10153
RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION =
ORIGINATOR : NSA
FROM : .
0 : DAVID MARWELL, ARRB ;

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS POSED BY JFK ARRB. Rt

DATE : 96/01/95
PAGES :
SUBJECTS :
1960'S INTERCEPTION OF SOVIET/CUBAN/MEXICAN DRUG SMUGGLERS © ERE
WHAT ACTIONS WERE TAKEN BY NSA FOR THE IMMEDIATE JFK ASSASSI -ERE
1960'S COLLECT ION/DECIPHERING/ANALYZING COMMS CAPABILITIES AR
DOCUMENT TYPE : LETTER
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/01/95 =
OPENING CRITERIA :
ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED
COMMENTS :

Tdigirok atboccutetgend 2
ACKG

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Doc ID? 6598287

 

—FS=C€O} Collectors, based on their personal recollections, were alerted to put greater empha-
sis on Soviet Bloc and Cuban military targets to look for signs of increased readiness in their
force posture. Analysts at NSA were also looking for signs of diplomatic reactions to and for-
eign intelligence reporting on the assassination. Any voice and cipher traffic were thoroughly
processed from the surrounding timeframe. Analysts on targets that were unexploitable from a
cryptanalytic standpoint reviewed traffic patterns to ensure that no deviations indicating unusual
activity had been overlooked. °

(U) “Did NSA ever collect, isolate, or segregate any records relating to the assassina-
tion?” ;

(FOUO) One file, related to Lee Harvey Oswald, was accessioned into the NSA/CSS Archives

in 1986. The LAO holds five files that topically relate in some way to the Assassination. In

1993 NSA searched for and collected documents in response to Public Law 102-526. Copies of

the records responsive to the law are held in the Office of Policy.

(U) “What actions has NSA taken, since 1964, with respect to the assassination? For
example, other than with respect to the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA), has
NSA had any program to collect any data with respect to the assassination?”

(FQUO) Since 1964 NSA has answered queries from various congressional committees. Files
about the information provided are held by the LAO and OGC. NSA's only program to collect
data related to the assassination was the response to PL. 102-526.

(U) “What files or records has NSA ever hed pemaining to congressional investigations
of the assassination or the intelligence community? For example, are there (or were there) NSA

files on the Warren Commission, the HSCA, the Church Committee, the Pike Commitee, etc.”

(FOUO) The LAO, OGC and Archives holds files related to this question covering all of the
topics except the Warren Commission.

(U) “What records retention (and records destruction) policies has NSA ever proposed
or implemented that might have affected records pertaining to the assassinadon? You stated, for
example, that records identifying Americans were destroyed in the wake of the Church Commit-
tee investigation, and you suggested that records identifying Oswald might have been among
those destroyed: What were the desiruction orders: who implemented them; how many records

were destroyed; and how were records identified for deswuction?”

(FOUO) NSA has created records disposition schedules for some documents. However,
SIGINT records disposition remained predominandy unscheduled during the period in question,
and consequently their handling is uncertain. Serialized records (reports) are usually retained
intact and are preserved to this day. The retention or destruction of other types of records were
not handled systematically. The decision to retain or destroy was made by the originating ele-
ments.

CU) “What records from intercepts involving the Soviet Union, the Soviet Bloc, Cuba,
and Mexico from the early 1960’s are still extant? For example, does NSA have uncranscribed
Cuban tapes from 1963 (but that may sudsequently have been broken)? What records does NSA
have from the Bay of Pigs and from the Cuban Missile Cnsis?

+S5=CEO} There are end-product reports, code books on erget communications and cipher traf-
fic available dating from the early 1960's on these targets in the NSA archives. Our records
show no instances of codes being broken in which we did not go back and decrypt maffic from

in
   

the period that had been unexploitable ar the time. It is our standard practice to do so regardless
of the circumstances. When such events occur it is also the SIGINT modus operandi to ensure
all voice material having any possible connectivity whatsoever to the event is scanned for intelli-
gence purposes. We found no indications of any SIGINT collection that did not get reviewed.
Such records also cover the missile crisis and Bay of Pigs timeframes as well. There has been an
historical perspective written in 1984-85 on the SIGINT effort during the Missile Crisis that also
touches on the Bay of Pigs, and one is planned on the Assassination (no estimated completion
date). :

(U) “Does NSA have files on American defectors to Communist counries during the
late 1950’s and early 1960's?”

—FS—CES)- There was one NSA organization which, as part of their mission, wacked the activi-
ties of such individuals in the 1960's, first manually and later by machine. However, almost all
records of such endeavors and files were destroyed in 1974, and any such activity ceased in the
wake of the Church and Pike Committees’ reports on such activides and the subsequent Execu-
tive Order issued. The two exceptions to this would be files on Martin and Mitchell who were
ernployees of NSA. :

(U) “Did any foreign government or intelligence service ever supply NSA with any in-
formation pertaining to the assassinadon?” i
(FOQUO) We are unaware of any information of this subject ever being passed by any foreign
government or intelligence service to NSA.

(FOUO) We have also collected a list of personne! who were working the target atthe -
time or who have conrributed to these answers. After you have reviewed these responses, please
do not hesitate to contact us to on (301) 688-6798 with any questions which you have.

(Barbee. C. Cltire

‘CLAUDLA C. COLLINS
Chief

Information Security Policy

 
