fine

HY 50955

TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE

8 -

Another file examined was entitled "ZRRIFLE
Administrative/Financial"; it is a long manila-type file.

‘The following items of possible interest were noted in this

file:

il. Memorandum dated January 11, 1961, to the Finance
Division from William K. Harvey, Chief FI/D deals with the
payments for Mankel's trip to Leopoldville’ Paragraph 2 of
this memo states, "In order to avoid any misunderstanding,
it should be noted that QJWIN was sent on this trip for a
specific, highly sensitive operational purpose which has been
completed. Although future use of QUJWIN is not precluded, it
was not deemed fitting during this one use of him to enter
into a continuing contractual relationship» or to have him sign
any memorandum of understanding."

2. Memorandum, dated January 31, 1961, for Chief,

Accounts Branch, Finance Division, from Justin E. O'Donnell,
Subject: Payments to QUWIN. Paragraph 1 of this memorandum reads
as follows: "“QJWIN was recruited in Frankfurt 1 November 1960
to undertake a one-shot mission to the Belgian Congo. Because
the mission potentially involved great personal risk to him

and he was obliged to separate himself from his business affairs,
it was agreed orally by this writer with QUWIN that his com-
pensation would be at the rate of $1,000 per month, plus his
expenses, for a period of not less than one month and not more
than two months." These two financial memoranda, numbers 1 and
2 here, seem to indicate a one-shot purpose for QJWIN in con-
nection with a Congo operation, which seems inconsistent with
many of the papers in the operational file reviewed above,
which indicated an ongoing relationship with QUWIN for the
purposes of recruiting safecrackers and burglars. These
financial memoranda are certainly quite consistent with a plan
to use QUJWIN for a one-shot assassination attempt in the
Belgian Congo. It is unclear that merely recruiting safe-
erackers and burglars or even performing safecracking and
burglary missions, would have involved "potential great
personal risk" to QUWIN. ;

 

 

 

 

3. Memorandum, dated March 24, 1961, for Cable
Secretariat from William K. Harvey, Chief, Fi/Division D,
Subject: "Distribution of ZRRIFLE Traffic.” Paragraph 1.
of this memorandum reads, "Two copies of all cables bearing
the ZRRIFLE indicator are to be delivered in a sealed envelope

 

TOP SECRET ~- SENSITIVE

 

Docld:32201879 Page 9
HW 50955

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

-9-

Girectly to Chief, FI/Division D, 1502 L Building. No other
distribution is to be made without the specific approval in

-@ach instance of the Chief, FI/D." Paragraph 2 reads, "The

above has been personally approved by the Deputy Director
(Plans)." I question whether such close handling of cable
traffic is not unusual even in a case involving safecracking
and burglary. Perhaps Harvey intended traffic -of more
sensitive issues to be passed through the ZRRIFLE channel.

4. In a large manila envelope filed immediately
after a dispatch to Luxembourg from the Chief, KUTUBE, dated
September 30, 1963, is a large manila envelope marked
"Documents in Receipt Supporting ZRRIFLE Activities." Within
this envelope are several smaller manila envelopes, one of
which is entitled "ZRRIFLE, Receipts for Accounting Submitted
by WK Harvey, Receipt for Operational Phone Calls May 15, 1963.”
Within this envelope are two sheets of yellow legal size paper
which contain lists of operational expenses submitted by W.K.
Harvey covering the period April 13-21, 1963, all of which are
to be charged as operational expenses to QUWIN/ZRRIFLE. These
expenses cover hotel expenses in Miami and Perine, Florida,
long distance hotel calls for these locations, plus $75 for a
boat chartered for operational purposes at Islamorada, Florida.
A hotel receipt indicates Harvey paid the bill of a Mr. John A.”
Wallston of 56510 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California,
for the nights of April 17, 18, and 19, and a Miami hotel,
probably the Eden Roc. These documents are the first indication
of any activities within the U.S. with respect to ZRRIFLE.
Apparently they did not involve QJWIN but rather other
activity, perhaps directed at Cuba because of his location in
Miami. Perhaps Harvey should be confronted with this listing
and asked to explain it. :

A third file was examined, which was marked "ZRRIFLE- ~
QIWIN Project/Contract. The following items of interest were
found: .

1. A long memorandmwritten in ink’ in longhand on sheets

of yellow, legal size paper at the very back of this file
entitled "Project ZRRIFLE.“ This is apparently justification
material submitted for the project. The first portion of this

memorandum seems to end abruptly at the end of the second page;

TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE

 

Doclda: 32201879 Page 18
fe

Ne

Hy 50955

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

- J-

22. Cable dated May 24, 1962, to Luxembourg from

 

.Headquarters indicates that the Agency has changed its plans

about assigning QUWIN any duties in Leopoldville. Paragraph 2
reads, "Decision made keep QJWIN Europe. Leopoldville assign-
ment canceled." Cable also indicates that headquarters
approves of Mankel's proposed move to Germany, probably
Baden-Baden.

23. Memorandum dated July 3, 1962, WKH [presumably
William K. Harvey] from AMS, re ZRRIFLE. This memo discusses
possible future uses for QUWIN. It seems perfectly consistent
with the use of QUJWIN merely for the purpose of recruiting
safecrackers and burglars. Paragraph 4 of this memo refers to
some ZRRIFLE authorization paper: "I have already given you
the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip has
been given QUWIN contract, including the extension to 1
March 1963." An attachment to this memorandum gives details
on two possible candidates for burglary and safecracking. In
this attachment there are two references, however, which may
be somewhat disturbing: One candidate is stated to be "willing
to use gun"; the second "wanted to know if he should be armed

for job--ready to go to the end."

24. Immediately following a dispatch dated
December 7, 1962, from Luxembourg to headguarters, there
appears in the files two pages of penciled notes on yellow
"buck-slip" type paper which are difficult to read but may
be relevant. At the top of the first page appears the word
QUJWIN. On this page appears the following words, which are
barely legible: "In 1961 by Bill H or Bissell used Arnold
Estale [or Estate] direct action capability established in
B [illegible] QJWIN Luxembourg principal prelim capability
for fourth country. QJWIN spotted three or four--moved to -
Italy..." ,

 

 

25. Dispatch from Luxembourg to Headquarters Chief,

 

KUTUBE, dated February 14, 1964, indicates that QUWIN has

been terminated. Paragraph 1 reads in part, "QJWIN has been
terminated. "Rozeney told him on 21 April that the operation
in which he was to play a role had been shelved and therefore
his contract, which ran out on 29 February, was not renewed.
He was reassured that this action did not result from anything
he had done and his past cooperation was appreciated. I+t was
mentioned as conceivable that the operation might have been
off and running if he had been able to establish his cover
last year."

, " pRopeRTY OF
TOP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE THE WHITE HOUSE 8

04964

FFIGE

Docld: 32201879 Page &
, POP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE

\ - 6 -

 

decided to locate him. The plan seems to be for Mankel to
develop a business as an art dealer in some German town selling .
French paintings. It is contemplated that the Agency will
supply the initial capital for the formation of his business. -
The final sentence in this dispatch asked headquarters for
projected operational plans for QUWIN.

19. Cable, dated March 17, 1962, from Director to
Luxembourg indicates that the Agency still contemplates some
‘activity for Mankel in Leopoldville. Paragraph 2 of this cable
reads as follows: "Tell him-will at same time discuss
Leopoldville assignment and have him sign contract." The
cable directs Luxembourg to tell Mankel to meet James Rabney
at certain locations in Germany on the 28th and 29th of March,
1961, telling him to be prepared to travel in Europe for about
two weeks.

 

. 20. Cable dated April 18, 1962, fron ‘head uarters to
Luxembourg states that another agent({OwGANNEnesbhad informed
the Agency that QUJWIN is going on trial after Easter on charges
of cobalt smuggling from 1957 or 1958 and could receive up toa
six-year sentence. Paragraph 2 of the cable states, "Please
contact QUWIN for all details including specific charges and
name prosecutor. if ANNES nfo true we may wish attempt
quash charges or arvhnge somehow salvage QUWIN for our purposes."
Paragraph 3 states, "Still do not have basic decisions but
fully anticipate we will need QUWIN."

  

 

 

21. Cable, dated April 26, 1962, from Luxembourg to
Headquarters indicates that QUWIN'’s trial will be completed on
April 29. He expects to be fined but not subject to a jail
sentence. Some indication of the Agency's intents with
respect to QUWIN may be discerned from paragraph 4 which .
reads as follows: "While we do not know present long-term
plans for QJWIN, he has no lead to other candidates. His
potential appears restricted activation to candidates OLLA
1426 or personal spot action. Suggest either ‘could be done
from Leopold base and question if not preferable move him to
Leopold assignment now.” There is a handwritten notation
beside the first sentence of paragraph 4 which states, "Not
the point." Beside the last sentence of this paragraph is
the handwritten notation, “How?" .

7 oF ~
ye PROPERTY

TOP SECRET - SENSITI Fe
; THE WHITE HOUSE ot rie

 

04950

   
 

S55 Doclkd:32201679 . Page F
- , : i . TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

mac

160. Cable, dated December 14, 1960, from headquarters
to Leopoldville. The cable criticizes Leopoldville for using
QUWIN for the purpose of recruiting the Yugoslav major, since
this was not his primary purpose in Leopoldville. Cable con-
tains the following statement: "“Would like restrict QJWIN to
activity directly pertinent his mission Leopoldville or forth-
coming mission Dakar and possibly elsewhere (e.g., Milan) for
KUTUBE/D purposes. He our only asset of this type and we
wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than
that originally planned for him." This is the first cable
from headquarters on which the name of William K. Harvey appears.

 

ll. Cable, dated December 17, 1960, from Leopoldville
to Director. This cable concerned a new asset entering the

picture for the first time, who arrived in Leopoldville on
December 2. The cable states that WIROGUE was the asset with
whom initial contact has been made in Leopoldville. WIROGUE
is living in the same hotel as QJWIN with whom he conversed.
QUJWIN has reported: "“WIROGUE had offered him $300 per month
to participate in intel net and be member execution squad.
When QUJWIN said he not interested, WIROGUE added there would
be bonuses for special jobs. Under QJWIN questioning, WIROGUE
later said he working for PBPRIME service."

 

) 12. Cable, dated January 19, 1961, from Director to

- Luxembourg. This cable apparently indicates that the Agency.
plang to use QUWIN in Leopoldville for more than one particular
mission. It contained the following statement: "Inform
QUIWIN we planning use him Leopoldville indefinitely as dis-
cussed with him there."

13. There follows a series of cables reflecting the
fact that QUWIN proceeds to Italy to recruit other assets.
One cable admonishes field agents to tell QJWIN not to give ~
reason to any of the candidates to be- recruited in Italy to
believe that ODYOKE or PBPRIME is involved. I get the
impression that ODYOKE refers to the U.S. CIA, and PBPRIME
refers to the intelligence service of some other nation.
However, no document uncovered so far confirms this. Cables
which follow seem to indicate that the people QUWIN was to
recruit were intended to be professional burglars. There is
no indication that they are intended to be assassins. There
are many other indications that these recruits were intended

.for safecracking and breaking and entering. QJWIN told them
he could offer a job for a large firm which wanted certain
commercial documents stolen.

Nae

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE “pRopERTY oF
} ’ THE WHITE HOUSE bem
041958 |

HW 50955 Docld:32201875 Page 5
“POP SECRET - SENSITIVE

5

 

14. Subsequent cables and dispatches indicate other
efforts on the part of QUJWIN to recruit safecrackers in
France and Italy.

15. Dispatch dated June 7, 1961, from headquarters,
Chief, KUTUBE/D to the Chief of Station in Luxembourg. It
contains a long discussion of the Agency's relationship with
QUWIN and his main purpose as an agent. This dispatch makes
it clear that the primary purpose of QUJWIN's employment by
the Agency is to recruit burglars and safecrackers for use
by the CIA. This dispatch contains the first reference I
have’ found to the code word ZRRIFLE. The one thing that seems
rather unclear is why QUJWIN was initially sent to Leopoldville,
and apparently was contemplated to return to Leopoldville, when
all of his recruiting of safecrackers and burglars takes place
in Europe. The fact that his return to Leopoldville was con-
templated may be easily seen from paragraph one of this cable.
The releasing officer on this cable was Mr. William K. Harvey.

 

 

 

16. Correspondence and cables indicate that one James
Rabney from CIA headquarters visited Europe in April and
March of 1961 for the purpose of meeting with Mankel to discuss
possible recruits for safecracking operations.

17. Dispatch dated December 15, 1961, from Chief of

Station in Luxembourg to Headquarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D. It
discusses the efforts of QUWIN to recruit two safecrackers in
Switzerland. It indicates that two French citizens, named
Santelli and Garioni were asked to come to Switzerland under
false pretenses by QUWIN for the purpose of being interviewed,
The following passage in the dispatch indicates clearly these
men were to be recruited for the purpose of the safecracking
and surreptitious entry. "During the interview with Santelli,
Garioni observed that for a night job he would need an
assistant to help him with carrying the equipment and to act
as lookout. He said he would prefer to do the job during
working. hours; for this he would get three or four others to
help him and force someone in the office to open the safe."

 

18. Dispatch dated February 2, 1962, from Chief of
Station Luxembourg to Headquarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D. it
discusses the efforts of the Luxembourg station to provide
acceptable cover for Mankel in Germany, where the Agency has

 

 

 

  

955 Docld:32201879 Page 6
. . : .. TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE
COMMISSION ‘ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
\ . Washington, DC 20500

os) April 30, 1975 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
: . -DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
. WU GY
MEMORANDUM , () ®
OO oO®

To: File
From: Mason Cargill M&

Subject: PROJECT ZRRIFLE AND QUWIN

On April 25, 1975, I was given three file folders
containing material on the above subjects by Mr. Joseph Selzer
of the Inspector General's staff. According to Mr. Selzer, his
review of these files indicates tha j, _—

LE_and its asset OJWIN was the | |

 

\
He assures me that there is nothing in these
‘Files which refer. explicitly or implicitly to assassination or
“executive action" in any form. His opinion is that clandes-
‘tine operatives of the type who wrote the documents contained
in these files would never commit to writing anything having
to do with the subject of assassination.

 

 

The first file reviewed is entitled "ZRRIFLE/QJWIN/

RYBAT OPERATIONAL." The following entries in this file seem
to have some potential relevance:
(710

1. Dispatch, dated November 1, 1960, to Chief of Station,
and Chief of Station, Luxembourg, from Chief, KUTUBE/D

at headquarters. This three-page dispatch apparently deals
with a mission on which a recruited agent, Jose Marie Andre
Mankel, will be sent from Luxembourg, where he was recruited,
to Dakar for the purpose of recruiting certain other agents
from among criminal elements there, specifically Corsicans.
The purpose for which these agents would ultimately be used
is not clear from this dispatch. However, paragraph 2a reads
as follows: "In view of the extreme sensitivity of the

TOP SECRET ~- SENSITIVE

- . _ ; _ _ 9
¥ .  O4955. sue WHITE ®

   

—s a
HW 58§55 Docld:32201879 Page 2
157-10003-10490

ne

~
-)
a
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :
RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR

TITLE

Date:04/19/94
Page:1

el 1s

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

O)1 2198

SSCIA
157-10003-10490

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: ROCK
FROM :
TO:

CARGILL, MASON
FILE

PROJECT ZRRIFLE AND * QSWIN

DATE :
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

05/30/75
12

ME\PROJECT ZRRIFLE AND QUWIN

/ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS :

1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

HW 50955

04/20/94

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Docld: 32201879 Page 1

 
TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

i ; -2-

objective for which we want him to perform his task, he was
-not told precisely what we want him to do. Instead, he was
told that we have evidence of Soviet operations among
nationality groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and

that we would like to have him spot, assess, and recommend

some dependable, quick-witted persons for our use. (Comment:
It was thought best to withhold our true, specific require~
ments pending the final decision to use MANKEL.) He agreed

to go on the trip for us." It is not c m this dispatch
that Chiefsof Station in Luxembourg aol ere completely
witting of the purpose for which Mankel T @ing sent to Dakar.
Paragraph 3 contains the following sentence: "Rabney gave
Jouvenoy [Chief of Station, Luxembourg] the same briefin i2-lo
concerning our purposes as he had given to the cos, [pe ‘
The remainder of the dispatch deals with details of & G6n~
tacts with Americans which’ Mankel may make in Dakar if he
requires further assistance, including instruction for bringing
about a clandestine meeting.

  
      
  

2. Cable dated November 2, 1960, from
Director with the notation: "Action: C/FI ° is cable
contains the following statement _in paragraph 1: "Altman met
Mankel 2 November. He accepted offer to procede Leopoldville.
Precise mission not conveyed to him, he only informed that
mission might involve large element of personal risk.”

 

3. Cable, dated November 3, 1960, from Director to
stations at Luxembourg and -This cable contains the

first identification of Manke the code name QUWIN. ~h
The cable reads as follows: 47 on QJWIN trip
pouched both stations 3 November. onfirm receipt b ."

“Luxembourg: will advise when to brief him.on Dakar
mission after receipt further info from Altman per paragraph

to 6959/{(IN36814) on Leopoldville mission.” This cable
contain’ ‘the following code word references: | RYBAT, LAURICLE,
ZRACORN.

4. Cable from Leopoldville to Director, with action
to C/FI/D4, dated 5 November 1960. It contains the following
paragraph: . .

 

we

04953 es
BROr
. Ane MISE UTE EN*
\ | se ware
. ' TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

 

   

ee
wal 50955 Docld:32201879 Page 3
- . : - :"POP SECRET ~ SENSITIVE

- 3+

“Please inform Mankel he should proceed Leopoldville
as soon as shots completed. Not necessary have Congo visa.
Should go Paris and take Air France flight to Brazzaville
and can obtain visa for Brazzaville in Paris."

This cable contains a handwritten note in the margin as
follows: “One copy given to Mr. Bissell by IS/Duty Of€.
Saturday. Action to be taken by DDP. - E.B."

5. Cable, dated November 9, 1960, to Luxembourg from
Director. It contains the following statement: "Unless you
advised to contrary by Altman, brief QUJWIN on Dakar mission,
using notes left during Rabney visit...Please insure he
thoroughly rehearsed all details since we anticipate he will
go from Leopoldville to Dakar with no opportunity reviewing
briefing..."

 

6. Cable, November 11, 1960, to Director, from
Luxembourg. Paragraph 2 contains the following statement:
“QOWIN recommended two French contacts who agree undertake
unspecified job. Arrangement made for direct access without
QUIWIN if Altman interested..."

7. Cable, dated November 12, 1960, to Director, from
) Leopoldville. This cable requests the immediate departure
vo of QUWIN for Leopoldville, and contains the following state-
ment:. "Local operational circumstances require immediate

expediting of QUWIN travel to Leopoldville."

 

8. The file contains several documents apparently
describing various Italians in the area of Trieste who have
the capability to break and enter and crack safes. They
appeared to be of questionable morality. Reports on the safe~
crackers wer Fapsnittes in a dispatch from the Chief of .
Station in the Chief, KUDOVE/D. The names of the
safecrackers In question are Sabatti, Cuccagna, and Bernardini.

9.° Cable, dated December 8, 1960, from Leopoldville to
the Director. It indicates that one purpose of QUWIN's
presence in Leopoldville is to recruit a major in the
Yugoslavian air force, through framing him up in an illegal
smuggling transaction. This recruitment is apparently for
the purpose of collecting information from within the
Yugoslavian government. ,

 

4

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE - paovteTY ot pic
swe WHITE HOUSE ®

 

BDocld: 322013879 Page 4

 
