INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY . Page

this knowledge had been imparted to PFAB, but he did not
“remember anyone on that board having d:.sapproved the matter. .
‘VOICE MONITORING
As stated earlier, Tordella did.no.: remember when NSA
had first initiated voice monitoring ay the request of BNDD.
He did however remember the CIA takeover of this monitoring.
He said that CIA had initially undertaken this responsibility
from a station in Florida. However, Tordella did not know.
who .at NSA had requested CIA to take over this responsibility
or whether NSA had provided CIA with a list of names for moni
toring. Tordella said that when CIA discontinued its acti-
vity in this area, he was told the reason, and in fact saw
‘the Houston memorandum on the lawfulness of this activity.
Tordella said he felt that Houston was simply using legal
matters as an excuse to disentangle the CIA from an expen-
‘sive operation. He said that CIA offered to put its per-
sonnel who had been involved in the project on NSA's bud-
get, but that NSA refused this offer. Tordella said that
he simply did not read Houston's memo is stating that moni-
toring for law enforcement purposes was unlawful, but rather
to state that CIA monitoring from within the United States
was unlawful.
Tordella said that he personally issued a verbal order
to stop the drug watch list activity ater consulting with
the Director of NSA. He said his reason for this was that

he feared “uninformed public criticism’.

 

NW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 9
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUYMARY age #7 ot ¥7

Tordella did not know why NSA had continued to monitor FILE:

 

‘U.8.-South American telephone calls after the termination.
of the watch list. He did state, however, that this activity.
was “utterly a waste of time" from the point of view of pro-
ductivity. Tordella stated, if fact, that he did not know
for sure that the monitoring had continued... He stated that
if it had continued, it may have had other independent value.

Tordella was questioned about the destruction of document
relating to the drug watch list. ‘He stated that these
materials were destroyed because no one saw any future. use
for. them, and that "It was a nice tidy little package." Tor-
della did not know why DEA had sent its ‘materials back to
NSA for destruction but guessed.that it was probably be-
cause DEA had no secure facilities for destruction. He
stated that this was. not an unusual action.

Tordella stated that the lack of serialization on the
wateh list product was designed as further protection in
case some of these materials had to be produced in open

court.

NW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 10
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY _ Page or g
_ awareness was just before the issuance of Richardson's BILE
letter. Tordella could not recall -any of the legal issues
or cases which were discussed in the ccurse of terminating
the watch list. .

“Tordella then recounted that he hac-had a meeting with
Secretary of Defense James Schlesinger within about one
month of the time that Schlesinger assumed that post.
Tordella thought that this meeting had taken place shortly

before the watch list activity had terminated in 1973.

   

‘Schlesinger's response was simply to say "I'm glad you told
me everything you are doing. Is that #11?" Tordella replied |
"Yes." No orders or instructions to NSA concerning the
- watch list activity were issued as a result of the meeting.
Gen. Sam Phillips, then Director of NS/A,. was also at the
‘meeting. No one else was present. Tordella stated that
after the meeting, he wrote a memo in Longhand, which was
never typed. He stated that he had supplied this to NSA-
and Ray Tadaki said that he had seen the memo. Tadaki said
‘that he though that David Lowman had a copy of the memo. /
Tordelia then told Tadaki that if Lowman had made any copies
of the memo, Tordella would slit Lowman's throat.
. Tordella stated that no subsequent action of any kind
was taken by NSA as a result of the Schlesinger meeting.
Tordella also stated that he thought that the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board knew of the watch list
- at some point, through routine briefings provided to it by

NSA. Tordella could not remember any specific times when

ON

“MW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 8
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page __ of F_

FILE:
Tordella stated that the distribut..on of the MINIRET

product to the agencies would not be limited to the pro-
duct concerning names submitted by the receiving agency.
Here again, the judgment of the analys:: was key. The analyst
would have in mind the substantive requirement that had
come in from the consumer agency (such as foreign connec-
tions to domestic demonstrations). Anything that the analyst
saw relevant to the substantive requirement would be sent
to the consumer agency.

Tordella stated that by the time of the institution of
Project MINIRET, the product was distributed only by courier.
In the early days of ‘the. watch list, i: is possible that the

product was electrically distributed.

Tordella could not remember the precise time when the.

“watch list activity was ceased. He though this took place
about the time of Attorney General Richardson's letter.
Subsequent to receiving that letter, Tordella said that —
he had first refused to accept the nam: of the five people
who are presently on the watch list as Secret Service pro-
tectees. However, after receiving “the oral approval of the
Attorney General for these names, Tord2lla approved their
submission to the computer dictionary.

Tordella said he did not remember whether the idea of
terminating the watch list came from inside NSA or from the
Dept. of Justice. He said he did not «now when the Dept.
of Justice first became aware of the watch list activity.

He said he thought the first time that Justice obtained this

 

- RW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 7°
INTERVIEW AND MEBTING SUMMARY Page __tof via

_ said that the primary motivation for the docyment was probabl FILE:
to avoid problems that would arise if any of the conmunica-
tions intercepted by NSA were forced to be produced in open
court.
 ‘Tordella was then asked when the first time was that
BNDD had first become involved in the watch list activity
with NSA. Tordella stated that he though it had been origi-
nated by William Sullivan of BNDD around 1973, and that this

was NSA's contact with BNDD. Tordella was then shown the

   

memorandum that John Ingersoll sent to NSA concerning watch
list activity in 1970. Tordella-said that he stood corrected:
and that contacts with BNDD probably. began in 1969.

Tordella stated that in his opinion the monitoring on
behalf of BNDD was never connected with law enforcement.
However, he said that NSA at the time had no objection to’ -

 BNDD's using the materials produced by NSA for leads in
law enforcement investigations. Tordella noted that in this
period, whenever the Justice Departmen: canvassed various
federal agencies in response to discovery motions on wire- ~
tapping in criminal cases, the Justice Department request
was worded in terms of "wire tapping," rather than electro-
nic surveillance. Therefore, NSA always denied that it had
"engaged in any of the practices as to which the Justice
Department was inquiring. Later, the Justice Dept. “modi-
fied the wording of its requests to included all electronic

‘ surveillance. After this time, NSA bezan to answer the

. relevant inquiries in the affirmative.

NW 47129) «=Docld:32423577. Page 5
' simply developed a "feel" for what a particular customer

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page

' Pordella stated that he did not know how many total
‘entries’ of U.S. citizens were on the vatch list from its
start to its termination. He also did not know what the
greatest number of U.S. citizens on the watch list at any
one time was. In fact, Tordella can only remember two
specific names from the wateh list: Jane Fonda and Mohammed
Ali. ,

Tordella had no information on the amount of product that].
was generated on an average month or what criteria were used
to decide which Messages were worth processing. While he
stated that he may have been shown the product at various
points, he had no recollection of this he stated that:

'"It just wasn't interesting enough to bring. to my attention.”
He did. state however that. the human judgment of the analyst

probably determined what product was d:sseminated. Analysts

wanted. Tordella however knew of no key individuals’ or
groups. as to which all interceptions were-always. disseminated.
He stated that an exception to his lack. of recollection
might be that all messages to or from lanoi were disseminated |
Tordella was asked about how the footnotes on the
MINARET product were compiled. While ‘ordella knew nothing
of the role of NSA 's biographic files in this matter, he
stated that SIGINT analysts had discret:ion to call the FBI ,
CIA, or other agencies on their own for the purpose of ob-
taining: identification information on persons mentioned in

SIGINT.

 

NW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 6

FILE:

x
. INGERVIEW AND MEET NG SUMMARY. ; ‘Page soo 7
Summary of an interview with Lou Tordella. WIT-8-4- CUA) ~ 1+ wen, )

Interview took place in Carroll Arms; Foom 610°

,on September 17, 1975 at 2:30 pm. Present : FILE:
were Tordella, Ray Tadaki; who" like Tordella
is from NSA, Britt Snider and Eric Richard . .
from the Senate Select Committee. quan foRieot

_ (NOTE: This summary of the discussion. with Tordella
does not cover his comments concerning Project LPMEDLEY.
For information on that matter, see the summary by Britt
Snider. )

BACKGROUND °

~ Tordella: came to the Naval Security Group in 1942.
He remained there and then began with.NSA at the time of its
creation in 1952. Tordella became Deputy Director of the
Agency on August 1,°1958, and retired from that position on
April 23, 1974. Since that time he has been a consultant.
He claims that he now works a 30-hour week instead of 60-

‘hour week.

 

WATCH LIST ;
Tordella had little memory of the watch list and pre-1967,
He does not-recall when the first watch list containing -
"U.S. citizens was established; he believed that it may have |
been in response to negotiations with the Secret Service
following the assassination of Presiden: Kennedy. Tordella
stated that, at that time, the Secret Service did ask NSA
to establish a watch list of "names" bur: that no specific
discussion took place as to whether or not these included .
names of U.S. citizens. Tordella said he simply never saw
any meaningful distinction between placing U.S. names and
other names on the watch list. In fact, Tordella claims

HW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 2
 

 

157-10044-10489).-

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.4

JFK Assassination System - Date:

Identification | ‘orm

_ Agency information

SSCIA
157-10014-10189

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE:-CHURCH COMMITTEE
07-M-94

Document Info: mation
SSCIA

OSL T975S
9

CIA
WATCH LIST
NSA

SUMMARY ’
Unclassified

1c

Redact

06/26/2000

WT2015

 

RW 47129 DocId:32423577 Page 1
INTERVIEW AND MEEVING SUMMARY . Page

that he never saw an actual list of any of the names until
sometime in the early 1970's, probably 1972. Tordella did
not know whether the early watch list activity included
telephone monitoring, ‘or only monitoring for printer traffic.

Tordella said that he believed that: in this early
period, names were submitted to the watch list by the FBI,
the CIA and the Secret Service. He dic not think that any
other agency had submitted names. He said it was possible
that the Office of Security might have submitted names ,
but that he had no specific recollecticn of this. He stated: |
"I would not have considered that a bac. idea."

"1967-1969 .

Tordella was shown the Yarborough cable which bore his
initials. He had no independent recollection of the communi-
cation, however. He stated that he dic not know whether this
cable was the first time that NSA was tasked to place tiames |
of U.S. citizens and groups associated with Black and anti-
war movements on the watch list. Similarly, he did not
know what, if anything, was included on the watch list for
the first time in response to the Yarborough cable. Tordella
knew of no meetings that took place inside NSA, or with other
agencies, as a result of the telegram. In addition, he did
not know whether the ACSI had ever received any product from
NSA. In general, Tordella knew of no new measures taken by
-NSA because of the Yarborough communication.

Tordella was shown the roughly- typed 4-page ‘document —
containing a list of names that was supplied to, the Committee

by NSA. He said that he had never seen it before, but that

NW 47129 DoclId:32423577 Page 3

i)

 

eG

(/
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page > of A

it looked like. an- internal NSA working paper. He stated FILE:
‘that it was possible, although he did not remember whether

this was the case, that this document had resulted from
- discussions between NSA and ACSI.

Tordella: was shown the reply from Gen. Carter in response
to the Yarborough telegram, which was sent out to all the
members of USIB. Although Tordella had no independent re-
collection of this document, he surmised that the wide
distribution it was given did not. imply that Yarborough's
telegram had also been sent to all the members of USIB.
Rather, he felt that Carter had sent out his wider response
in order to bring to the attention of the other members of
USIB this new and constructive project that Yarborough was

' proposing.’ That is, the wide disseminz.tion of the reply
was meant as a “pat on the back" for _Yerborough.
AFTER 1 JULY 1969 (MINARET)

Tordella did not know who authored the MINARET charter.
He said that he. did not believe that he had seen it til after.
it was issued, and in fact not until atout 1973. Tordella
stated that this charter was simply away of making sure that
materials from an ongoing project were being properly con-
trolled, and receiving appropriately restricted distribution.

Tordella had no recollection of whc was consulted within
the National Security Agency in the. ‘Preparation of the MINARET

charter, and did not know who suggestec that it be prepared.

He doubted that anyone outside NSA had been’ consulted. He

HW 47129 Docld:32423577 Page 4
