 

 

Agency could have no part in the assassination of a government leader
(including Castro) and it would not aid Subject in his attempt. This
included the following. "We would not furnish the silencer, nor scope
nor any money for direct assassination; furthermore, we would not lift
a finger to help subject escape from Cuba should he assassinate Castro."

The same document _sta this message was communicated to Amlash
in November 1964 by

Despite this decision, the CIA in fact continued to assist Amlash
through a cut-out until Amlash's arrest in 1966.

Later documents on Amlash are also relevant to the September-
November 1963 Amlash operation. Several such documents report informa-
tion received to the effect that Fidel Castro had long been aware of
Amlash's plots against him. For example, Amlash's one time Cuban

mistress was believed to be working for Cuban intelligence and her
brother was known to be with Cuban intelligences] 7 Jeo DIR —
in December 1964 warns that Amlash's objective may “Bé known to too

many Cubans. And, one CIA informant reported in 1966 on one known
double agent of Cuban intelligence working for CIA and said the CIA's
Cuban operations had been penetrated at a high level by Cuban intel-
ligence. He identified this latter individual only as one of the Cuban

exiles who was knowledgeable of a number of the most important opera-
tions. Nevertheless, Amlash's file contains nothing to indicate any
detailed analysis of these possible penetrations of the CIA's Amlash
operation, although a cryptic handwritten note on at least one re-

port rejects the suggestion that Amlash was himself reporting to Castro.

One other document bears on the testimony Amlash's case officers
gave before the Select Committee to the effect that Amlash was given
a poison pen for self-protection. That document reports that Amlash,
and other Cuban officials in Paris in 1963, were carrying pistols for
self-protection throughout their travel in ‘Europe.

Finally, although the staff has not reviewed all possible CIA
files to determine what other operations Castro might have been re=
ferring to in his September 7 statement, the Amlash file indicates
that some coastal landings of supplies in August were the only other
CIA operations conducted against Cuba in this time period.

 

Doeld:32202611 Page?

 
Te

 

In a Memo for Record dated 19 November, one case officer summarized

the actions to be taken at the next meeting with Amlash. Amlash was to
be told the U.S. was prepared to give full support to Amlash's coup.
He would be shown President Kennedy's speech in Miami of November 18

and told this reaffirmed support for Amlash's proposal. Headquarters
had approved giving Amlash scopes and rifles and other equipment. The
memo ended by stating that "C/SAS* requested written reports on Amlash
operation be kept to a minimum."

[___]to DIR of 20 November indicated Amlash had been called —.
on the night of November 20 and had agreed to postpone his return to

Cuba in order to see case officer 0 ‘if it something interesting." The
CIA officer said he could not assure it was interesting but that it was

to be a meeting which Amlash had requested. (Obviously, CIA wanted to
give Amlash the "technical support" he felt he had not been promised in
the 29 October meeting.)

Case officer 0 flew from the U.S. so as to arrive in| [jon the morn-

ing of November 22 for this meeting.

“vv to DIR received at Langley at 6:25 a.m. on 23 November ——

is the only message in Amlash's file reflecting the fact the meeting
had taken place. It indicated that Amlash was anxious to returm to
Cuba and that case officer O was to arrive in Washington at 1810 that

day.

The file contains no outgoing cable to{____]on November 23 or or

any other time telling[ _|to break contact with Amlash.**

On 25 November, a contact report was prepared. There is reason

to question the authenticity of this document which is three pages
and reports the 22 November meeting with Amlash. The first two pages
have dark type as though prepared on a typewriter with a new ribbon.
The type on the third page is much lighter as though prepared on a
typewriter with an old ribbon. Itimade no mention of the passing

gf a poison pen to Amlash. .

 

 

 

 

 

* Desmond Fitzgerald

** In its 1967 report, the IG stated such a message had been sent:

but could not be found.

HW 50955

 

Docld:32202611 Page 5
Amlash meeting including the fact that he had been promised "full U.S.
support if he is successful in a real coup against the Castro regime."
He was also promised arms which will have to be furnished through
JMWAVE's operations.

f On 3 December, Headquarters furnished JMWAVE some details on the

A series of confusing cables passed between Headquarters and JMWAVE
on December 6, 7, and 8. Apparently, Headquarters first gave JMWAVE
authority to drop a cache of arms in Cuba. Then Headquarters called
off the operation. In DIR 87615 of 7 December, it is noted "major
top level Cuban/Caribbean policy review scheduled early next week which
should provide basis for decision."

JMWAVE complained about the change in orders in a cable of 8
December. JMWAVE 8702 pointed out that one Headquarter's message
indicated December infiltration operations were approved by higher author-
ity but a second message indicated a scheduled operation should be de-
layed and not run in December.

Headquarters responded in DIR 87880. Headquarters procedure
was to present infiltration operation plans to "higher authority"
even though there is a reasonable chance operation may be postponed
or delayed as was case with the scheduled operation. "This procedure
will secure approval for the operation with only telephonic reconfirma-
( tion needed when previously relaxed operation finally mowmted." Head-
‘eg? quarters recommended. delay until January after considering and equating
objectives against risk factors for Amlash and others. "Believe by
January, CIA should be in position better evaluate status of intemal
assets."

y of 13 December, Paris reported that Amlash left —
for Prague on November 27 but did not seek recontact with case
officer. DIR 90966 to JMWAVE of 23 December reported that Havana radio
on 2 December stated Amlash arrived Cuba on 1 December.

The last document in Amlash's file for the period ending December
1963, is a long report on Amlash, but it does not contain information
relevant to the October-November activities. Nevertheless, in red pen
on the cover page appears: “Dec 1963 Not to leave this office on

orders.'' followed by initials that appear to be/| |

 

 

One later document in the Amlash file contains more information
about the November 22, 1963 meeting. That document, a rough draft of
a biographical information sheet on Amlash (no final draft was found)
appears to have been prepared in 1966 at the time of Amlash's arrest

for _a later plot against Castro. It states: "22 Nov. 63 Mr. Fitzgerald

and assured subject that this Agency would.give him every-

thing hé needed (telescopic_sight, silencer, ali the money he wanted).

The situation changed when | and Mr, Fitzgerald left the meet-
aa ing to discover that President Kennedy had been assassinated. Because
_& of this fact, plans with subject changed and it was decided that this

 

 

HW 50955 Docla: 32202611 Page 6
TN AAD
353

 

; MEMORANDUM 353.
(. TO: Senator Hart (Colorado) and Senator Schweiker Joy a
FROM: Jim Johnston
Dan Dwyer
Ed Greissing
DATE : January 27, 1976
SUBJ: Connection Between Amlash Operation and Investigation

of JFK Assassination

Background

The staff's memorandum of January 5, 1976, postulated that the
Amlash operation might have had some effect on CIA's response to
the investigation of President Kennedy's assassination. On January
9, 1976, the staff asked for access to the Amlash file at CIA; and
after a delay which was not explained, the staff was permitted to
review the file on January 23 and 26.

Summary of Amlash File

. Amlash initially contacted by CIA in 1961 met occasionally with
case officers through August 1962, at which time he was given instruc-
wf. tion in secret writing and explosives. Interest in Amlash continued
‘gay after the August meetings, but there was no further direct contact by CIA
: agents until mid-1963. Why there was a year lapse in contact with Am-
lash cannot be determined; the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962
undoubtedly made CIA cautious in dealing with Amlash.

In any event, DIR 48198” to of 19 June 1963 states that
Amwhip, had sent a letter as part of
an "activation éffor Oo reluctan ragon."’ Presumably, Amlash was
"reluctant dragon" and was, by this letter, asked to recontact CIA.

 

In late August, Amlash traveled with a large contingent of Cuban
officials and athletes to/| | He cabled Amwhip

about his arrival on August 29. This cable apparently was the signal

 

 

that he was prepared to meet Amwhip in

Amwhip and two CIA case officers met with Amlash in |
between September 5 and 8. The two case officers have testified to
the Committee about their understanding of events at this series of
meetings which they viewed essentially as a get acquainted session.
CIA messages tell a different story. to DIR 6f 7 <x
September stated that Amlash tald Amwhip he felt there were only two
ways of getting rid of Castro. The first was an invasion by U.S.
forces which Amlash knew was out of the question and the second was

 

 

an "inside job." Amlash indicated he was awaiting a U.S. plan of action.
, He referred to the explosives demonstration CIA gave him a year earlier
af as “too cumbersome" for his purposes. ;
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
mk ee DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
* RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

* DIRs are messages sent from Langley. . AS SANITIZED
MW 50955 Docld:32202611 Page 2 aoe : ws ae) fam IL
(571000540421
, : Co
Zipy
83/6 Wé7; —‘date:06/06/94
Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

(09 rrrrrrrrernsensacenseenennnes AGENCY INFORMATION Cie ee i
: CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
AGENCY + SSCIA DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RECORD NUMBER : 157~10005-10421 RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : JOHNSTON, JIM/DWYER/GREISSING
TO : HART, SEN. GARY/SCHWEIKER, SENATOR

TITLE :
CONNECTION BETWEEN AMLASH OPERATION AND JFK ASSASSINATION

DATE : 01/27/76

PAGES : 6 1
SUBJECTS :
AMLASH CONNECTION TO JFK ASSASSINATION
CUBA
CASTRO

 

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1€, REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
BOX 353

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
WW 50955 Docld:32202611 Page i
At the conclusion of the meetings with Amlash, Headquarters
cabled on 9 September that, based on what little feel Headquarters
had, Amlash appeared hopeless as an intelligence performer and should
be approached as a chief conspirator allowed to recruit his own co-
horts. He should be urged to recruit a few trusted friends to assist
him, initially in “FI and Ops reporting" and then progress to_sabotage

 

 

and more serious matters on an orderly basis. (DIR 67110 to ao
[| JMWAVE and[__])
On 11 September, | |to DIR summarized the intel- —

 

ligence information Amlash had given on Soviet units in Cuba, saying
all IRBM and bombers had been removed. By this time Amlash had left
Brazil apparently heading for a vacation in Europe.

 

 

 

egy By letters of Septem! September 16, Amlash stayed in

contact with Amwhip. apparently was picking up responsi- —
bility for Amlash at this time, since [ito DIR dated 19 =
September asks for some background material on Amlash.

On 19 September, JMWAVE 4580 to DIR warns that Amlash is part of
an anti-communist group in Cuba and details the membership of his group
as well as a commumist group. The message also notes that Fidel is
allegedly aware of the two groups and acts as moderator between them
in order to maintain cohesion in the Government of Cuba.

Nevertheless, Amwhip is asked to continue to work with Amiash
and is assigned to accompany him around Europe. According to[(7 ~~] ~
[|] to DIR dated 7 October, Amlash met with case officer O* on 5
October. Case officer 9 sat and listened permitting Amlash to get
everything off his chest. Amlash seemed to be complaining about the
low level espionage matters that had been discussed at the September
meeting in Brazil, implying he had a more valuable role. Case officer
O “provided necessary assurances his feelings not in fact true and
that his case receiving consideration highest levels. (emphasis added)''"

Ty been both

 

 

"With this problem which had undoubtedly othering Amlash con-
* The files do not accur identify these case officers.
{ | however, were the principal case officers.

 

os

 

Docld: 32202611 Page 3 Clb As

 
his desire return Cuba to undertake 'the big job.*"

On October 15, Ue oeesuer? DIR states case officer 0 met with _—
Amlash and Amwhip on ctober. Although the case officer had been
forewarned by Amwhip, he was not successful in discouraging Amlash's
request for a high level meeting. "“Amlash convinced that if such meet
does not take place at this time it will be almost impossible come out
again and we will be in same situation as last year with no definite
decision. Also finds it difficult to believe why RFK who receives many
Cubans would refuse to see a major'' such as Amlash. The message notes
the fact remains that Amlash does "have excellent entree to highest
target level which believe we cannot afford overlook."

£ siderably, off his chest, a much more relaxed Amlash departed restating

role. DIR 75683 to on 15 October directed case officer 0 to

This message 3 Pmnely moved Headquarters to re-evaluate Amlash's
return headquarters soonest for discussions of all phases of the case.

The next meeting apparently took place on October 29. One case
officer met Amlash holding himself out as the personal representative
of RFK. He informed Amlash, according to a 13 November MFR, that
the U.S. was prepared to render all necessary assistance to any anti-
communist Cuban group which succeeded in neutralizing the present Cuban
leadership and which assumed significant control to invite the U.S.
to render assistance. He emphasized that U.S. support could come only

f after a successful coup. Amlash responded by saying that without Fidel,
Eee cn the military would break up into 4 or 5 groups and the regime would
‘agi? disintegrate. He also said he was satisfied with the policy discussion

but desired to know what technical support he could get.

Since Amwhip was closer to Amlash than the case officers, he was
asked about Amlash's reaction to the meeting. His reactions are
summarized in Attachment A to Amwhip's Memo of Meeting dated 14 Novem-
ber. Amwhip said Amlash was still not pleased with support from U.S.
government. While Amlash was satisfied on policy grounds, he was not
at all happy with the fact that he still was not given the technical
assistance for the operation plan as he saw it. Amlash could not under-
stand why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which promised
a final solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S. gave
much equipment and money to exile groups for their ineffective excursions
against Cuban coastal targets. Amlash had accepted the fact he had to
work with the CIA, but CIA might lose him if it continued to procrastin-,
ate. Amlash talked about going to the french terrorist organization,
the OAS, but realized that was not feasible. The memorandum ends with
what apparently is the author's conclusion: “It is hoped that he does
realize that Havana must first be taken’. . . or failing that, a
truly sizeable piece of land (say, almost an entire province) which
could be true rallying point."

 

HW 50955 Docla: 32202611 Page 4
