 

 

- SEGRE!

Ro

 

 

III Conclusions
(1) In many respects initial talks with FCR and VRD leaders

reveal that they over-estimate their own capabilities. Neither has an
immediate capability to introduce arms into the area or a firm plan of action.

(2)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) Recent reports on internal conditions in the Dominican
Republic clearly point out that the country is rapidly approaching a
stage of complete economic paralysis, a situation that has created
feelings of tension and desperation, not only among the opposition
elements but within the ranks of the Trujillo clique itself. While sources
within the middle class express fears of eventual liquidation of that
class by the dictator and his son Ramfis, it is not likely that Trujillo
will move until he lears of the outcome in late March 1961 of congressional
action on the windfall sugar quota. If such action is favorable to .
Trujillo, it is probable that he will contime to rule uneasily for an
indefinite period unless material outside pressure is brought to bear

SECRET
SELLE

CG

against him. If, however, his windfall is taken from him, it is the

firm opinion of this Division that a violent reaction on his part will

shortly thereafter be felt which will end either with the liquidation of
Trujillo and his cohorts or with a complete roll-up of the internal opposition.

 

 

 

 

SECRET

 
 

Senitizgo MUL Ib %& Pog
176-10033-10154

 

AGENCY :

: 176-10033-10151

: Church Committee

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :

: Bissell

TO:

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS :

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

FROM

CLASSIFICATION

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM ~

NARA

CIA

Bundy, McGeorge

Briefing Paper/Dominican Republic
2/17/1961

5

Paper, Textual

CURRENT STATUS : |

-DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 3/28/2001
OPENING CRITERIA : .
: COMMENTS :
 

f

SEGRET
. BRIEFING PAPER ON THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

I. Situation

Following the break in diplomatic relations in August 1960
U.S./Dominican relations have worsened steadily, and the anti-U. S. sentiment
of the CODR was brought sharply into focus by the appearance of pickets
outside our consulate on 5 January in protest against the OAS vote to
extend trade sanctions against the Dominican Republic. The pickets

‘bore signs condemning the interventionist policy of the U. S. and calling -

for the expulsion of Consul General Dearborn, whom they labeled a spy.

The Dominican radio and press continued to censure President Eisenhower

as being responsible for the present state of affairs, while maintaining

a reserve concerning President Kennedy, apparently adopting a "wait and see"
attitude, although it has previously expressed some reservations regarding

' the President's choice of advisers on Latin America.

On 26 Jamuary the GODR ordered the expulsion of U. S. Vice Consul
James A, McNamara on the ground that he was maRing derogatory remarks
about the country; however, it is probable that this expulsion was.in
retaliation and anger over the belief that the U. S. had provided information
to Venezuela on Trujillo's efforts to overthrow or assassinate President
Batencourt.

It is thought by some informed observers that the outcome of the
sugar legislation which comes up for renewal in the U. 5S. Congress in
March 196] will be all-important to the future of U. S./Dominican relations.
Some say that the Trujillo government cannot last another six months if :
they do not get their share of the Cuban windfall sugar; and rumors are
circulating in Ciudad Trujillo that if they are deprived of the windfall
the GODR plans to expropriate American properties and terminate U. S.
consular relations. :

II Operational Summary

 

 

 

 

SECRET
1B)
pe

~~ SECRET

Qe

 

 

 

 

B. Frente Civica Revolucionatia (FCR)

 

 

 

 

C. Vanguardia Revolucionaria Dominicana (VRD)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET
