 

 

SECRET

power, The nilitia were therefore established as an alternative

arned support for the regine, The original units were composed
of Castro's nost ardent followers. In tine, however, the nilitia

was so greatly expanded by recruitment under pressure thot its

; revolutionary zeal was considerably diluted. Castro has there-

fore transferred his favor and reliance to the newly organized

Rebel Youth, who are now his wost fanatical followers.

18. In general, the militia ond the Rebel Youth, both part-
tine forces, have only light arms which are issued to then only on
occasion. They are not capable of sustained conbat, but are ef~
fective for controlling ana coercing the general public. In
addition, sone selected units of the uilitia and the Rebel Youth
are specially arned and trained and are, in effect, aruy units

specially dedicated to Fidel Castro.

19. The capabilities of the air force have been greatly
enhanced by the acquisition of MIG aircraft and the return of
personnel fron training in the Bloc. There are now about 35

MIG=15's and MIGel9's operational in Cuba.

20. The navy is unreliable and distrusted; nost cf its

personnel were taken into custody at the tine of the April

-~8-

SECRET
SECRET

landing. Mutinies, defections, and purges have left it few profes-

sionally trained and technically qualified nen.

- 21. Recently, the professionnl security agencies of the

- government «= Army G-2 (the Sceret police), the National Police >
and the Moritine Police -- were transferred fron the Ministry of
the Arued Forces to a newly created Ministry of the Interior.. This
change is likely to enhance their effectiveness. It does not- in-
dicate a reduction of Raul Castro's power, since Raniro Valdes,

the new Minister of the Interior, is one of his close associates.

' Valdes is a Communist, formerly head of Aruy G-2.

22. A network of Committees for the Defense of the Revolution
is being established to provide an additional agency for political
surveillance and control. What these cormittees lack in professional .
conpetence, they nake up for in pervasiveness and zeal. The Rebel
Youth have been particularly active in pronoting their formation.
The announced goal is 100,000 counittees with over a million uen-

bers covering every cormunity in Cuba.
If Castro Were to Die

2346 Fidel Castro's personal prestige and popularity were

indispensable to the regime in the earlier stages of its developuent.

-9-
SECRET

a. The Rebel Arny (32,000)

b. The Rural Police (9,600)

c. The Rebel Air Force (2,000)

a. The Navy (2,000) ° .

e. The Militia (250,000, ‘including 83,000 wouen)

f. The Rebel Youth (150,000, including 10,000 girls)
g- The National Police (9,000).

he The Moritine Police

15. The administrative and command structure of these forces
is extrenely loose} the improvisotion of ad hoc comands including .
disparate elements is the common practice. Confusion and lack of

coordination are therefore likely in any energency situation.

16. The arny has been strengthened by the receipt of Bloc
arus and is being instructed in their use by Bloc personnel.
However, it has ‘had little. or no combined arnes or field training.
It displayed great tactical ineptitude at the tine of the April

landing.

17. About a fifth of the arny are veterans of Castro's
guerrilla struggle against Batista. The remainder are early ad-
herents. In tine, however, Castro cane to doubt, with reason,

their loyalty to the course the Revolution had taken on achieving

-T7- ; et a

'” SECRET
 

SECRET

12. The new totalitarian political nachine is to be the

United Party of the Cuban Socialist Revolution, a merger of ‘the

auorphous 26 of July Movenent (or vhat is left of it) with the
well organized Cocmunt st Party. Although Castro is of course
to be the suprene head of this party, the man who is pushing the
project is Blas Roca, the Communist Secretary General. Party
membership ie to be ‘linitea to the elite of the revolutionary
struggle and prerequisite to appointment to any inportant polite

ical or econonie position.

13. A significant orn of the Castroist political organization
is the paranilitary Association of Rebel Youth (AJR), derived fron
the previous Communist youth organization. These teenagers, of the .
type that would be found in juvenile gangs, are a terror to their
parents, their schoolmates, and the general public. They have
charge of indoctrination in the schools and have been active in
the formation of the Comiittees for the Defense of the Revolution
(see paragraph 8). Active participation in the AJR is to be

prerequisite to educational and eventually political advancenent.

The Castroist Security Apparatus

14, The forces now available to the regine to suppress

insurrection or repel. invasion are:
SECRET

to the urban middle class, urban organized labor, and the landed
gentry. It has since spread to scall peasant proprietors and

even to hurbler folk, who are beginning to appear in significant

nurbers in the flow of refugees from Cuba.

7. The severe internal repression which accompanied the de-
feat of the April invasion stile, for a tine, all nanifestations
of opposition within the country. By Septerber, however, this effect
had worn off sufficiently for Catholic crowds in Havana and other
cities to dare to defy the regine's prohibition of certain public
religious observances. This was the first occasion on which the
regine hod been forced to use’ gunfire to disperse hostile public
denonstrations. It was thereforé indicative of a significant

change in the psychological situation.

8. ‘There have also been sone increase in small-scale guerrilla
and sabotage activity and a considerable increase in such passive
forns of resistance as absenteeisn. However, nost disaffected
Cubans now think primarily in terms of escape. In nid-Septenber,
sone 15,000 had coupletea legal arrangenents to leave the country
which were then cancelled by the governnent, and sone 500 were in
asyluri in the several Latin Anerican enbassies in Havana. Illegal

departures occur alnost daily.
’ “SECRET

9. Despite these manifestations of disaffection, the great
bulk of the population still accepts the regine and substantial
nuribbers still support it with enthusiasn. ‘The sprawling revolu-

; tionary bureaucracy now enbedies a new class with a very definite

personal stake in the regine.

Castroist Political Organization

10. The regine is now in the process of o couplete reorgani-
zation of the formu of government in Cuba, and of the organization
of a new totalitarian political party to operate and control it.

The Courmunist model is apparent in both instances.

ll. The traditional provincial ‘and muntetpal governnents are
being replaced by juntas (soviets) for “eoordination, execution,
and inspection" (JUCEI). Already established in each province of ©
Cuba, the JUCEI's consists of a “provincial congress," representa=
tive of all najor economic entities in the territory, which neets
occasionally; a "plenum" of the congress, which nects every few
’ ponths; and several sualler bodies which meet frequently and
actually direct the ‘provincial eduinistration. The primary func-
tion of all JUCEI is the local inplenentaton of plans received fron

higher authority.
SAniPtta raga WRL Yo}
SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICE GF NaTIONA NAL EST TMATES

3 November 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR

_ SUBJECT: The Situation and Prospects in Cuba

Summary

 

1. The Castro regime has sufficient popular support and
repressive capabilities to cope with any internal threat likely
to develop within the foreseeable future. The regime faces
serious, but not insurmountable, economic difficulties. The
contrast between its roseate promises md the grin actuality is.

producing disillusionment and apathy. Some specially notivated

elenents have recently dared to demonstrate their disapproval.

The bulk of the population, however still accepts the Castro
regine, or is at least resigned to it, and substantial numbers’

still support it with enthusiasm. At the same tine, the regine's

' capabilities for repression are increasing nore rapidly than are

the potentialities for active resistance.
176-10037-10414

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY :

: 176-10037-10414 ‘
RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

: CIA

: Kent, Sherman

RECORD NUMBER

ORIGINATOR
FROM
TO:

TITLE

DATE.:

PAGES :

’ SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NARA

Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin

Director, CIA

: Memo RE: The Situation and Prospects in Cuba

11/3/1961
ii

9/10/2000

Goodwin Papers: Cuba, General, 11/61 & Undated Box 4. Box 7.
 

 

The Economic Situation and Prospects

. Qe The Cuban econouy is now feeling the impact of three
revolutionary changes: (a) the loss of nost of its experienced
middle and upper level nonagerial talent; (b) the imposition of
elaborate state controls; and (c) a drastic shift in the trading
pattern, fron primary dependence on the US to prinary dependence
on the Soviet Bloc. The US enbargo has produced some econonic
difficulties through the denial of spare parts for previously
acquired equipnent, alnost all of: which was of US origin. Never~
theless » the production of sugar, the principal export crop, has
been increased, and the production of tobacco and tropical fruit,
the other leading exports, has been maintained. Although Cuba's
free world trade-and foreign exchange reserves have declined
‘sharply, the Bloc is taking enough exports and returning enough.

consumer goods and wachinery to keep the econouy going.

3. The donestic production of foodstuffs and other consuner
goods, and the inports obtained from the Bloc and elsewhere, are
together not sufficient to conpensate for the loss of former fa-
ports from the US. Personal consunption has declined, especially
in the cities, and nost drastically in the case of the upper and

niddie classes. In sone rural areas, however, especially in
SECRET

centers ‘of sugar production, living eonditions have been sub-
stantially inproved, particularly in terns of housing and sani-
tation. These examples of the tangible benefits received by sone

keep alive the hopes of many others.

4 In addition to trade, the Bloc has extended to Cuba sone
$357 udillion in eredits for industrial developuent. However, only
a few of these developnent projects are yet underway, nor is ouch -

likely to be accomplished for another year or more.

5.: In general, the Cuban econony is characterized by najor
shortages and a high degree. of disorganization. This state of
affairs will continue for soue tine to come, and may indeed get
sonewhat worse. In view of the availability of Bloc assistance ’
however, we ‘ao not believe that the econony will deteriorate so
for as to bring about castro's overthrow, or force him to uake
basic changes in his policy. on the contrary, the situation will
probably begin to improve within a year or so, as the new
Communist-type organization takes hold, managerial experience

increases, and foreign trade is adjusted to new channels.

Popular Acceptance of the Regine

6. Initially, almost all Cubans hailed the triumph of the

Revolution with enthusian, Disillusionnent, however, cate quickly _
-3-

SECRET
