 

 

-GONPEDENEEAL . -3-

Trujillo is Likely, to nationalize ail American
properties if additional economic measures are taken
against him, including the reduction of his windfall

sugar quota,
Iv_

  
 
 
 
 

 

 truj illot s Recent: Attitudes Toward the United, States -

aggression “agal
meeting his. pr
‘Caribe, has pow:

 
     

[oO U8
apereaches by traiitio's. representatives. in Bovope to.
Soviet Bloc representatives have: ‘not yet been soncessful.

Vv

Trujillo's Relations with the. Church

During the past year the Church has taken a strong
attitude in condemning Trujillo's excesses and brutality
in dealing with opposition elements within the Dominican
Republic. On two separate occasions the Church has
issued Pastoral Letters along these lines which brought
forth strong reaction from Trujillo. He has since
attempted to intimidate the Church to cease its criticism.

-CONPEDENTIAL
 

conse ENTIAL 2

On January 4, 1961 the Council of the OAS in effect
recommended to American Governments that they suspend
exports. to the Dominican Republic of petroleum and petro-
leum products, trucks and spare parts for trucks. Both
at the San José meeting and at the meeting of the Council
in Washington, Mexico, Venezuela and Colombia took the
lead in pressing for sanctions. Brazil led a small group
of States which sought to avoid effective economic sanctions.
The attitude of the Brazilian Government may have changed
as a result of the Quadros inauguration.

The question of the feasibility and desirability of
extending export controls to other commodities remains.
under study in the Council. The Council has authority to
lift all sanctions when the Dominican.Republic ceases to

‘constitute a danger to the peace and security of the
hemisphere.

II ;
Trujillo's Personal Holdings

Trujillo has through the years expanded his property
interests in the Dominican Republic. Approximately 60
percent of sugar properties are owned directly or indirectly
by Trujillo, and he also owns or has a major interest in
the brewery, flour mill, cement plant, paper mill, ship-
yards and other business enterprises. It-is difficult to
say with precision what the total value of the property
owned by Trujillo inside and outside of the Dominican
Republic is, but it is probably somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of $500 million. A considerable portion of this is
in the form of liquid assets believed to be held in
Switzerland other places. ;

NY
cg

IIr
American Investments

American investments in the Dominican Republic
are now estimated to have a value of approximately $150
million including principally properties of the South
Puerto Rico Sugar Co., the United Fruit Co., Alcoa,
and a small telephone company owned by a New York corpora-
tion.

) .

The value of American holdings would have been con-
siderably larger except for Trujillo's practice of
encouraging through veiled threats the sale of American
investments to himself. : ‘

Trujillo
-CONFEDENTIAL
TOP SECRET - a

Should the underground leaders with whom we are
in contact fail to obtain the support of the Dominican
armed forces and should they call on the United States
for assistance, a question arises as to whether the

United States would be prepared to intervene militarily

either unilaterally or collectively with other American
States. This question needs study and a review of the
entire plan is desirable. It is recommended that

Mr. Berle's Task Force be assigned this task.*

; There is enclosed a memorandum containing additional
background information.

unhurt

Dean Rusk

% die trae bum dene .

Enclosure: _

Background Memorandun.

TOP SECRET
 

 

Background Information
=

. Generalissimo Rafael Leonidas Trujillo came into
power in the Dominican Republic in 1930. He was first

a@ non-commissioned officer and later a commissioned officer
‘in the Dominican Constabulary established during the

U.S. Marine occupation which lasted from 1916 to 1924,

In 1930 he came into power by.a coup d'etat. Since that
time either Trujillo or his nominees have been "elected"

as President. of the Dominican Republic but the real power

has been Trujillo.

Because of his savage repressive methods Trujillo
has deservedly acquired the reputation throughout the
hemisphere as the most distasteful dictator in the Americas.
He has been the principal target of Latin American liberal
thought: “for decades. The United States has been frequently
criticized for having created, during the occupation period,
conditions propitious to Trujillot s rise to power. We
have also been accused of deliberately perpetuating hi's

rule.

For some time Trujillo has intervened in the internal
affairs of other Caribbean States. In 1950, the Council
of the OAS warned Trujillo against meddling in the affairs
of Haiti. -In the spring of 1960 the Inter-American
Peace Committee called attention to the flagrant violation
of human rights in the Dominican Republic. In July 1960,
after an assassination attempt on the President of Vene-
zuela, that country called for a meeting of Foreign
Ministers under the Rio Treaty and charged the Dominican
Republic with aggression against Venezuela. A committee
of the Council of the OAS found after investigation that.
the Dominican Republic was implicated in the attempt to
assassinate Betancourt.

In August 1960 the Sixth Meeting of Foreig: Ministers
condemned the acts of aggression and intervention by the
Dominican Republic against Venezuela, agreed to terminate
diplomatic relations with the Dominican Republic, to
prohibit the export of arms and implements of war to that
country and agreed that the Council should study the
feasibility and desirability of extending the suspension
of trade to other commodities.

on

GONPIDENTLIAL
_ THE SECRETARY OF STATE
_ WASHINGTON

TOP SECRET
February 15, 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT
Subject: The Dominican Republic

You have inquired regarding the assertion that
the elimination of the Dominican Republic's windfall
sugar quota will lead to the downfall of Trujillo and
his replacement by a communist-oriented regime.

Economic Aspects

It is true that the Dominican Government is faced
with serious economic difficulties. Foreign exchange
reserves are kept secret by the Dominican Government’
put they are believed to be low. Similarly, the current
budgetary position is secret but we assume that by
reductions which have been made in the public works pro-
gram and other civilian costs and by the increased taxes
which have been placed on imports and exports the budget
will be nearly in balance. The level of business activity
is low, credit is scarce, unemployment high and the cost
of living has risen.

The principal causes of Trujillo's economic diffi-
culties are not to be found in our U.S. sugar policy
but rather in his excessive military and propaganda
expenditures coupled with unwise fiscal, financial and
investment policies and his systematic milking of the
Dominican economy for his own personal gain. While
increasing U.S. purchases of sugar six-fold (the estimated
windfall quota for the Dominican Republic between April 1
and December 31, 1961 is about 466,000 tons which at the
U.S. price would bring a premium of approximately $22.6
million over the price which could be obtained on the
world market) would. doubtless help the Dominican economy,
it is not proposed to’ eliminate his historic share of
the U.S. market (the Dominican basic quota for the
April 1 - December 31, 1961 period is approximately

_ 83,000
TOP SECRET

SANITWED NUL 9%) OA Yo

Bowe anen nnn Were Cet 8.
176-10033-10152

 

AGENCY :
: 176-10033-10152

RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

RECORD NUMBER

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO:

TITLE :

: 2/15/1951

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

: Paper, Textual
: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

DATE

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

NARA

Church Committee

Rusk .
Kennedy, John F
The Dominican Republic

7

8/28/2002
TOP SECRET -2-

83,000 tons which represents a premium of approximately
$4 million over what could be obtained on the world
market).

Since Trujillo owns directly or indirectly about
60 percent of the sugar-producing properties in the
Dominican Republic, a large part of the windfall accrues
not to the Dominican economy but to Trujillo personally.
Furthermore, with a personal fortune estimated to be
somewhere in the neighborhood of $500 million, a sub-
stantial part of which consists of liquid holdings abroad,
Trujillo has the personal resources, if he wishes to use
them, to provide substantial amounts of capital to the
Dominican economy. :

Political Aspects

In spite of economic difficulties there is no solid
evidence that Trujillo's fall is imminent. Trujillo rules
by force and will presumably remain in power as long as
the armed forces continue to support him. While there is
evidence of dissatisfaction on the part of a few officers
there is as yet no cogent evidence of large-scale defection
within the officer corps.

Tne underground opposition to Trujillo composed of
business, student and professional people is believed to
be predominantly anti-communist. They have substantially
increased in numbers in recent years :but have been unable:

, to move effectively against Trujillo. In addition to
‘opposition groups in the Dominican Republic, there are
numerous exile groups located principally in Venezuela,
Cuba, United States and Puerto Rico. In some cases these
groups have been infiltrated by pro-Castro or pro-
Communist elements.

In the event the Trujillo regime should fall the
degree of danger of a communist takeover would, according
to our intelligence, depend on whether the domestic or
the exile groups succeeded in gaining dominance. The

' danger would -be less if the domestic opposition gained
power, and it would be increased substantially if infil-.
trated exile groups should emerge as the next government.

Finally, account must be taken of the adverse effect
on our position of leadership in the hemisphere if we
support tyranny in the Dominican Republic. Our ability

to marshall

TOP SECRET -
TOP SECRET . : ==

 

to. marshall Latin American support against the Castro
didatorship would be impaired; Venezuela has made it
clear that action against Trujillo is a condition
precedent to Venezuelan support of collective action
against Castro.

Comments have also been requested concerning the
progress which has been made in assuring an orderly
takeover by anti-communist elements should Trujillo fall.

: Our representatives in the Dominican Bepublic have,
at considerable risk to those involved, established
contacts with numerous leaders of the underground
opposition. These leaders look to the United States
for assistance. They believe in a free enterprise
economic system, plan the nationalization. of public
utilities with compensation to the owners, intend to
institute a land reform program based on agricultural
cooperatives and the nationalization of idle
agricultural land, and intend to confiscate all of
Trujillo's properties. They have agreed on a president
to lead them, propose to prevent the re-entry of
communist and subversive agents and to hold elections
within a two-year period during which they plan to

carry out their program. No financial assistance has

been given these underground leaders but the CIA has
recently been authorized to arrange for delivery to
them outside the Dominican Republic of small arms and
sabotage equipment.

: These leaders are believed to have considerable
support within the country and while they plan
immediately to. seize control of the government if
Trujillo falls, their ability to carry out their plans
obviously depends to a large degree on the attitude of
the Dominican armed forces, They believe they have
important support in the officer corps.

 

 

 

Conversations with them continue. These
exile groups have received limited financial assistance
and propaganda assistance in the form of certain radio
broadcasts.

Should the
TOP SECRET
