arerrer tan, Se ae
| - SECRET od
| aE ES GY 18 October 1963

| . SUBJECT i Government of Vietnam Acting Foreign

| Minister Cuu's Comments to Ambassador
/ . Lodge on the Buddhist Issue and Alleged
American Involvement

. REFERENCES: A, Saigon EMBTEL 724, dated 17 October 1963
B. Saigon EMBTEL 717, dated 17 October 1963

1. The GVN strongly resents United States refusal to turn over
Tri Quang to GVN jurisdiction. The GVN considers Tri Quang as the
_ primary instigator and leader of a revolutionary effort to overthrow
ae _ the government. As long as the question of Tri Quang's sanctuary in
“—“the-American 1 Embassy remains unresolved we will continue to have
strained relations With the-GVN... Under present circumstances, we
can expect the GVN to strike back by: accusing-American, officials of ;
complicity in causing and aggravating the Buddhist crisis. BRE at a

3. Aside from the problem of Tri Quang's sanctuary in the
American Embassy, the GVN has other reasons for suspecting
American officials of iMegitimate activities in cooperation with the. -—-
Buddhist leadership. During the heat of the Buddhist crisia and prior
to the declaration of martial law on 21 August 1963, about ten or eleven
American officials were visiting Xa Loi pagoda weekly to debrief
Buddhist leaders on their plans and reactions. These officlals repre-
sented J-2, CIC, other intelligence components of the American mission,
the Embassy security Office and the USOM Public Safety Division. The
Saigon Station had two or three representativesiin direct touch at one
time or another with the Buddhist leadership in Ka Loi. We surfaced
this fact together with the names of our officera to Ngo Dinh Nhu, State
Secretary Thuan and to Interior Minister Luong. We pointed out that
the purpose of our relationship was to obtain a correct estimate of the
situation, to avoid reliance on exaggerated foreign press reports, and
to urge moderation on the Buddhist leadership. Both Thuan and Luong
seemed to accept our statement and to concur in the Station/s relation-
ship with the Buddhist leadership. As time went on, Ambassador

: Nokting became disturbed at the considerable number of American
officials visiting the Buddhist leadership at Xa Loi. He thought that
the size and frequency of American representation at Xa Loi could be
misconstrued by the Buddhist leadership and by the GVN as constituting

 

bd

SECRET EVES Gall

 

NW 49061 Docld:32626241 Page 2
 

116-10036-10162

 

 

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10162
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO::
TITLE : Government.of Vietnam Acting Foreign Minister
DATE : 10/18/1963
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 201: Vietnam,10/15/63-10/28/63, Memos
and Miscellaneous. Box 2

HW 49061 Docld:32626241 Page 1
 

 

 

SECREL Fyps wily

encouragement of the Buddhist movement. Nolting finally cancelled
all United States official visits to Xa Loi with the exception of Station
liaison. The Station reduced the frequency of its visits to about twice
a week and finally began to use only one officer for liaison with the
Buddhists.

3, Cuu's charge that Tri Quang ordered the self-cremation of the .
bonze on § October in cooperation with American representatives ia
| without foundation in actual fact. To the best of my knowledge, Tri
Quang is under continual guard; he has access to no telephone; and
| there appears to be no way for him to establish communication with
outsiders. When Cuu speaks of the United States conducting an operation
of thig kind through another Embassy, I have no basis for speculation
as to which Embassy he has in mind. The GVN is probably piecing
together odds and ends of gossip, rumor, and malicious deception infor-
mation, and it may believe that it has a case. On the other hand, the
GVN may simply be striking back at the United States over the sanctuary
question, knowing that its information is fabricated. I assume that
Thich Thin Khiet's appeal to the Embassy that Tri Quang be turned over
to Khfet's religious custody resulted from pressure on Khiet by the GVN
to make an appeal of this nature.

 

Mew “sru on od, With respect to Cuu's charges against John Helble, Consul in
- Hue, I feel that Cui ta ‘greatly exaggerating. To the beat of my knowledge
- neither Helble nor other Americar officials.in Hue had any part in organiz-

ing the original Buddhiet incident or in keeping the iesue alive. Helble
hed many contacts in Hue among professors, students, other intellectuals,
and probably with a number of politically dissident elements.. As the
Buddhist situation developed, certain of these contacts were detained
or arrested. The Buddhist crisis and ensuing GVN repression had,
I believe, a strong impact on Helble, who probably spoke out among
Vietnamese friends and contacts with candid and firm expressions of
disapproval over the way the GVN was handling the Buddhist problem.
Regardiess-of the inaccuracies or exaggerations of the GVN case.
against Helble, {t is probable that the GVN feels Helble constitutes

_aoritical and antagonistic element in Hue. Personally, I regard

a ' Helble as an able and dedicated officer.
°C
‘ * 8. The USIS Chief, John Mecklin, has led one of the most
4, : effective USIS programs that I have seen anywhere. Apart from
; “\ % programmatic progress, however, Mecklin and his deputy, David
‘..' | Sheppard, have perhaps become increasingly critical with respect to the ~

“~ | GVN. In this respect, they are not much different from a large number
of the civilian officials representing components of the United States
mission in Vietnam. I reject completely Cuu's charges that Mecklin

SECRET EVES GAY

 

tid
NW 49061 Docld:32626241 Page 3
SECRET EYE: muy ,

bribed reporters or paid out money for photographs of burning bonzes.
The Australian correspondent, Dennis Warner, stayed at Mecklin's
home in Saigon during part of his visit to South Vietnam. However,
there was no complicity between Mecklin and Warner in the appearance
of a copy of Warner's manuscript at the Xa Loi pagoda. The more
plausible story am we have heardit is that this manuscript was being
worked on by Warner while he was staying either at Mecklin's home.or -
at the Caravelle. hotel. This manuscript story was entitled something
like "The Decline and Fall of the Diem Regime" and represented a
partially finished draft of a contemplated newspaper or magazine article.
The manuscript was stolen from Warner's lodging and wa3, we believe,
planted in the Xa Loi pagoda by the GVN, itself, in order to discredit

. Warner and, as it now turns out, Mecklin as well.

6. I do not doubt that the GVN will bitterly resent contact by the
UNGA delegation and Tri Quang in the Embassy. On the other hand,
1 am inclined to skepticism at the thought that the GVN will attempt to
delay or prevent the arrival of the UNGA delegation at this late date.
Nor do I believe that there is much real possibility of a GVN-instigated
invasion of the Embassy to seize Tri Quang.

7. On the queation of declaring United States officials personna
non grata, my impression is that the GVN would be reluctant to take
this step. Ngo Dinh Nhu and, I beliave, Cuu as well have expressed
the hope that the United States misaion would "put its own house in
order", Nevertheless, the contimied presence of Tri Quang in the
Embasay and the intensification of other strains in United States-GVN
relations may overcome GVN reservations about declaring one or
more of the American officials in Saigon personna non grata.

John H. Richardson

 

tW 49061 Docld:32626241 Paae 4

 
