SH

‘yoconed 1Lation and seintegration, would be the only. ‘rational.
choles Left to him. :

 

‘ gho ‘steps’ required to csromgtbon tho ‘Contral’ Goverameat |

ave sot forth in TAB G,.

fa general, walle. Adoula 4s not en deat choiee, » we believe :

‘ha. is the Rest : andividuad available to. hold. the Feins of govermmant
a Leopoldvilie ana, even with telianiont Ademtesed, he would enjoy

 

* the virtua of. having tekon office legitimately. a

 

 

 

"the entire operation ae overt’ 8 possibie
een legelly prorague FarLiansint for thivty digs faotiitates this.
"Tn this: comnoction,. wo would axpset: Aaoela to éoteblich amore
” ‘eftestive ‘exoutive branéh, wndie w ‘favo Gisiattered’ giving. |

_eaadtgenet aseitante. to tbe 000 tn. csteniseting ite om ear. y eapentatey,, a

  

- the fast ‘that Rasaveba

 

 

 

 

“Bho dotatled 4 agonde of. stops: roqutrod 1s avellable : = Smoot,
is all. teo Samilier, But i a now atsibephore: produced by a noir”

; “dencastration that we mean ) Ate Boze: dhl steps required. gould bo oe .

  

 

:8
2
Bh en rm ei eee ree

 

@ 9 «, .

| taken damediately«

. Adowla. coulda onder the otendstil1 with minimum atertoulty
if assured of this nore forthcoming vs/oH support. HMoreover,.

although ‘the OMEK is now negotiating the. subject with Tshombe ,

when it is ‘faced with: us detmminetion to ond. secession, this might
etimulate them to turn over inmediately. their taxes and foreign -
exchange: to the Monetary: Council with ox without Tshombe's
agrecment. Verkding: out the: agreed a¥ision of power botwaen he

, Central. Governnont and the ‘Ratenga and arrangements for military. -
integration, ‘would, dea. more ‘complex tasks: We think this could
- best. be ‘aohicved by: taving U Thant’ personally fly $0 ‘the Congo. end: wt

negotiate a ‘final settlement with Adoule: and Tshombe on ‘these questions,

. _ Both sides would be: given to understand that we: ‘would tolerate *.

a no. nonsense in: ‘firming up specific errengenonts: based upon
the ‘ogotiattons that. bave already. been, held.

 

70 a
_ 70 eC leve land mtb

¥ a

 
ofFe

. mission, oF (a) protecting our transport planos ialioh are operating
-4n the interior of the Cengo ca behalf of the Us (b) backing up

tho US Poresa; and (e) training end developing an adequate national —

. a8? gree for the Central Government ef the Congo.

Cur shLLingnoss to ao this would ke very well secoived. by

ae a grat. majority ef tae.UN mambers, amd espoctally by mambers ef tho

Gango Advisory Ceammittace fo the ‘Seeretary General, it would syuboli.co ,

apd. demonstrate in a. practical way our. carnest Feselve to seo this.

ew ‘wmnbreila, $6

‘thing ‘throagh and avoid a major failure by tho UH fa ite a Largost
. - popsolweping attempt. . fo

‘Seadless to an Ld the ‘presonce of U8: forces Co OP ever the

_ lear inowledge that v.38. forces wera available. for this purpese -.
‘would, bo e significant pressure. oa Pehonbe. and his associates. ‘Bahonbo ° *
. could ‘Sniterpret: this. dectaion in ne. ottisr way ‘than as preg? that. .
any rontstancs on. his part to the vB, ae any attempt te destroy.

"| Bupopoan Podlitios in Katengs, would bo met by a devastating —
‘ebimtor’ bicw. oe ee a

i We are ondassting « a bebe of U8. military forces wader .

 

, integrate the ‘Eatenga. “gh ‘taea to pot chat: the Thited States or.

: thie. US: would tal a military initiative te destroy Pohonba’s

goverment. But the. we, with U8. basking, would be placed $n.a

open to Schonbo, end political negotiation leading toward

position hore the alternative of nd litery Fesistenes was BO longer _

~ pocanotListion .

  

 
oo ‘sb o

D _ division. of.. pousrs ana the beginnings ef niittery. integration -

between, Gia - Contrel Government end the Katanga.

in these  etsomstanves, we recommend three major stops: .

 

At tho » present tino, ¢ our. essosenent: is that, with the now

_ ‘Tadenesian battalion: (ane of them. supposodly a paratroopas battalion) :

end tls relatively e@ced soourity oituaties is the nest of ei country,
‘the. UH has onough ground forces to bandlo eay challenge fen |
7 etangarose gondermerio a 28 ds not challenged fren the alr.

. ‘Pasre problem 1s, therefore, to make cure that mo present.
oP conceivable Katanga, ale capability hes a chance to operate against
| - the we ‘foress. aio moans following through on all of the present
} _ artengenente | to beef tap the wy aie. forces. in ths aree with Supdich,

  
   

 

io ‘Sdgtor use. hs essosenent of alt 1 maaaeery 1 forces im ths ©
- __ Geage Ss attached at 4B ) Ae An enalysis oupporting the proposed i for
: cS Gutted States aie Fores wit &e at PAB Be

 

 

  
 

   
     

“8 ovat bea departure fran tho xfginel Haanavakjold

 
 

 

 
  
 

  

 

68 the jogalar 180 Poros. Moreover ) wowld want to meintain
ocamand of cur om Air Pores waits. in the: agen. Xf the Seorotary
Gonoral aa ‘walling, a would . probebly. be poseable. to ‘aovolop a “ >
‘equest trem the “Adowls: Goverment, endorsed ‘by. ehs UB, . for the
: placement ta Waopelavitie of on n Amoriee ats F Fores wait with ho
ae ae | miloaten of

 

  

pein gee cee one eats, seepmereenegen

 

‘Amoxteen unit as. @ pert : 7

 

Se
 

a ‘very ‘Bessy ‘state of. aftuirs.’

 

eke |
‘Afpioa,.- and probably irreparable damage to the WH asa
peacekeepers es re .

 

“Afeioans cannot bande hte ¢ end: ‘this would ‘open the Congo
$e evontuel Commmist tekoover;. 7

   

. (ce): Buying Leopold awe) 1o'g_sequisssenes to | ebanbo .
eossione Loopeliviite cannot be boughs so leng as ie has tio

- alternative © Of Sovist aids and Po ey

 

no prospsct that Pehonbs could dn a covieh 's ‘support e theoaghout
: the | congo ¢ to ‘make this a realiatic possibility. :

 

What 10 wrong ‘with the pioture ta. th ‘absence of a U.S, =

dpoiston ‘as to what wo would doy an the. ‘#isiet onalysic, to. prevent , .
7 cheesy ‘Lerge-seale massacres, on endfor a ‘ia for! Soviet ‘presanics called .
to by. radical sueseésors ‘eo Adoula.. Te we ‘continue to puree, co wo
_ present policies, thoy wilt resalt in. hardening the “whombs secession,
further. weakening the position ‘of ‘Adowla (beeause of bi Apabiuity to.

: solve. the Katengs problem, the: eas. big noderncstyle political desu -

gn Congo polities)... If vo fans down this #oad, uo may eventually have to.
tage: ‘United States, ond’ porheps. other r western. forces to: elean oP ae

 
 
 

 

EP, we ‘are. oleer now. chat : the ultiaate ¢ case ve would. ase Our
oun power én Contra Africa, thon anything short of that that ‘ald

; proven a breslstenn in ‘the congo t¢. protenble, to waiting too Yong oe

 

 

 
ommend that the United: ‘States Government tale .

 

. & asa anajor ebjoctive. to develop a modern and moderata Geatral —

Goveramant in the Conge, to gat Katange reiatograted Sate the

_- a Democracy cannot: ‘plute unless it Hens 4t. 22 wo. a5aR Sty
and 4f at is elear to all concerned that’ vo, ‘man ‘it, wo can use tho

possiblity” of oup fallor interventica lover to. ‘ascemplish our

purposes: with 1 ese. interventica now.

 
  

fe recomend | threo kinds of eters | to move ahaeds on oh
“assumption that we Feally, igen tte ~ a

 

/ os 7 fa) ste ww. forees in ‘tho poe stead | be buss | up

: to the point wisre ¢ would clearly be widicwlows for
. ‘Behonbe's Katangan forces to challengo thom. .
_ (2 P Couvince Adoula to prorogue the Parliamont,
a to govern. with a backing of a ‘procwostorn group headed by
. Mobute, and to establish more effective ‘edniniotretien vith.
wy, 8.8, and Belgian assistance, a
zOy Continous to pursus vigorously ‘the most feasible
elemouts. of ‘the Pant Plen, notably ‘ths: ‘Giviaion of Froventwss -
. (wiehout further consultation with Tehombe , ag necessary)
the Goatral Govertment’s amesty, the mild tary standstill
ia Hort Retatsny and c) attempt te force’ an agroed .
. : - aviation

   

See

_ Cango and to prevent @ Soviet presence in the Congo, te recommend -
. immediate steps both to ‘Bove repidly toward these objectives snd
to domonstuts thet wo have in ‘fact: taken this decision end are
"prepared to back it with the full weight of tnited, States power.

Btieeieenetmen oe *

 
A gg, ener eerie apeeenereny

 

 

) Afetoa. ‘mote tecavanteges, an tring to oparate ia Osateed, rie oe

early withdrawal 6 ‘of Toda ‘twospe, cannot vomein nid tho 2 Ooagb: ab”
; Longer Qa_en. effestive foree..

(been ssiatotingel
_ wold ke a ‘Ga jor asiure of this. Aduish tration’ s polio and ‘ould.
sptously undermine ‘the peacokeeping role of. ‘che, Tasted Hetiea ae 7

a eels <i hel a EY
ne " / 44

a

  

ee -: Copy 78 of 25 copies, Series As
. SEEREE oo SS eembes 13, 1962 .

MEORANDOM FOR HE -PRESTOENE ; .

‘We ‘aso sooking te prevent an increase in Commit inf luonse | ;
in the Cenge,.¢ to rolutegrate the Btenga, and to otwoagthon end: maintain
a modovete government in Leopoldvilie that can ia fact ron ‘tie

comtey. _ Without Feinvigoration, our Present policy sennet achieve ;
. . these. Gate. : .

gow “end continuse to neneuvar for an

 

 

    
    

Boeause Ualted States ‘end oe poltey/for all practical purposes,
able, the: ‘Organization's failure in the Congo . |

  
 

   
 
 

 

 

 
176-10036-10002

 

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10002 .
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files -
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
- TO: oo
TITLE : New Policy on the Congo
DATE : 12/13/1962

PAGES : 9 Le

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000 |
OPENING CRITERIA : :

COMMENTS : Congo Cables; restriction information innacurate/missing; box 1
 

Sen

 

fhe basic | aseumption of our . present congo policy ts that

. we could get Katanga reintegrated into tho Congo and an effactive
moderate governmont established and funetiening in Leopoldvalle,
by persuasion end- diplomacy backed up by thrsata of econonis action.

“This assumption has turned out to be weng. It is wrong because
fisombo and his suppérters aro slearly not going to rointegrate wiles:

_ they have. to eid. ‘nothing we have done. convinees Pahombe that, a tho
mh, last analysis, he. will be foraed to it.

' Te ds also. wrong beeams @ Wa are ‘rot building en efteative Contra:

; Government | in Leopoldvilie. A lergely ivresponsible Perlisment end

a flabby administration at not good enough as a political frameworks

7 Adoule is the best leader on the horizon, ‘bat we should be wolpting
- to develop other political Asadership. 7 ,

Situat{on this Woek -
“After mich international conversation, Foreign Kiniotor Spasic

   

“Beas: sont a private oniesory to Tshombe to get hin te accept a change «
in the mathod by which THEE mains its payments. Th. deolaien te mais

the ‘payments to. the Cantrel Governnent dastead ‘of te Eskenae should

oo have been. taken without trying to Polear Ab? whith, Pahaubey but.

a Speak elected to consult fahoube fire, Ye ‘do not yet mow on what

-, temas @shoube wild accept Spaek’s proposal. Yo ao" ener fran ; 7
. “expartonso: that. 17-3¢ requires any esticn on his part to carryout
tae: detail, thet action will not be taken. .

 

 

 
ye : ee See

P32"

“shutting oft the UMEK. payments ‘0 Tshombe is still the’ ‘best |
7 single thing ‘that can ‘be done to put pressure on. ‘Tehonbe and dead
him to make Ketenge in fact a part. of ‘the Congo. . But UMEK ia paturaliy
reluctant, to get out in front of governments, and the Belgians are
; naturally reluctant to seen more resolute 4a this matter than the
- United States. , , a
There ‘has also ‘been much talk ebout halting ‘the ‘purchase of
- Katangen copper end cobalt. Adouls hes how, without edequate.
“consultation,” p Proposed to eleven | countries that they stop buying
- Ketengen. cooper. and cobalt. - Secretary General uv Thant was about

to ao. the seme» ‘but we ® provatled « on bim to @ delay nis action: until

ener United Seabee, me. prohsbaetve’

 

 
