 

oT @. CO SECRET (

directing the armed invasions of big ranches in
‘the Andean highlands by land-hungry Indians. “This
information contributed to the decision of the
Peruvian junta to crack down on: Communists in Jan-
uary; Unfortunately, by that time the Cuban na-
tionals had either gone underground or fled the
country, and the Peruvians are still Looking for
them, . We have no direct reports that these Cu-
bans have worked with the Peruvian guerrillas.
Cc. In Brazil, in fact, the complaint of guerrillas
in training camps there was that they had been
recruited by a promise of Cuban instructors, but
found there were none. This came to light when
the report of ‘a Cuban intelligence agent, relay~
ing: their complaints to Havana, turned up in the
wreckage ‘of the Varig airliner which crashed in
Peru in November ..
D. We do not rule out the possibility that there are”
, Cubans in the field with active guerrilla forces,

‘but we have no evidence at present to prove it.

 
 

 

. 4
C / SECRET co

II. “The basic training covers cross-country movement of

guerrillas,-firing, care of weapons, and general |

 

 

guerrilla tactics. took

 

such a four-week course more than a year ago, ostensi-

bly going to Cuba for a convention, and returning to

his Havana hotel every few days during the course to

A.

spread the word that he had been sightseeing.

 

 

took a longer course

 

and. then was sent home by way of Europe has

' given us a great deal of detail on the type of

training. He reports that some of the trainees

remain indefinitely. The Cubans sometimes re-
fer to these men as their International Brigade,
Sometimes they are formed into national units

from a particular country, in effect forming a

' packaged cadre which can be returned to the home-

land to lead a "Liberation Army." .

A trainee who recently returned to After

 

 

 

 

said that all his

 

fellow trainees were asked to mark bridges and

‘other similar demolition targets on detailed

maps of | They were also required to fill

=4
SECRET
Co SECRET (

out a lengthy questionnaire on sabotage targets,
possibilities for subversion of police, methods
for illegai entry and travel, suitable drop
zones for air supply, possible points of attack
against police and military posts, and similar
information necessary for directing subversion

and insurrection.

Iv. We keep getting reports that in such countries as

Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru, where there are guer~

_ villa forces either in action or in being in the hills,

the Cubans carry on their training by providing instruc-

tors or advisors for these forces, These reports are

invariably second-hand, and we have not been able to

confirm any of them.

A.

In some cases, it has turned-out that a reference
to "a Cuban" with the guerrillas referred to

someone who had-been trained in Cuba and was

- training others, rather than a Cuban. national...
. We know positively that three Cuban nationals .

- were involved in the strike violence at La: Oroya,

Peru, last December, which culminated in some

four million dollars worth of damage to the

smelter of the American-owned Cerro de Pasco min-

ing company. One of these Cubans has also been
Fe ee ld ,-s -\iwwy ~'se cy

C SECRET

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES . 18 February 1963

aps ome

TRAINING

We estimate that at least 1,000, and perhaps as many

‘as 1,500 persons came to Cuba during 1962, from all

the other Latin American countries with the possible

exception of Uruguay, to receive ideological indoc-

trination or guerrilla warfare training or both.

‘More have gone in 1963 despite the limited facilities’

for: reaching Cuba at. present.

A. The largest contingents. have come from Venezuela,

Peru, Ecuador, Argentina, and® ‘Bolivia.
B. Some of the courses are as short as four weeks,
designed to lét it appear that the trainees had
merely attended some conference or celebration

and done a little sightseeing:

on Other - ‘courses last.‘as long as a year, and ‘may

include intensive training in. such things as
sabotage, espionage, or psychological warfare,
"Many trainees have stayed on in Cuba indefinitely.
We have devoted a great deal of effort’ to monitoring
Latin-American travel to Cuba at the main jump-off
points such as Mexico and Curacao, We have to do this

because the Cubans go to great lengths to conceal the

fact that some, of these. ‘trainees have ever been to Cuba;

and how long they stayed.

SECRET
 

176-10036-10067

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10067
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Training
DATE : 2/18/1963
PAGES : 9
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : '
CURRENT STATUS : :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 59: Cuba Subjects, Cuban Subversion,

2/18/1963. Box 1 :

TY 0 ee oe 2 er en
 

C SECRET = {°

We know a great deal ‘about this travel from our
_ penetrations of the Communist parties, from con-
‘trolled agents we have been. able to maneuver into
the training courses in Cuba, and from coopera-
tive travel control authorities in Latin American
countries, .
The Cuban Embassy in Mexico City gives the trainee

a visa on a separate piece of paper, so that his

: passport, when he goes home, will only show that

‘he has. been in Mexico. We have a record, “however,

of those who fly on to Cuba.
In other cases, particularly in the case of travel
through Montevideo before the quarantine, the Cu-
bans furnished ‘passports, under other names for
travel: by way of Curacao.

We derive some of our figures from travel control
points, and another set from the information we
receive fron penetration agents of established
reliability in the Communist parties. Sone of the
Latin American governments are also able to main-
tain fairly accurate lists of their nationals
known to have been. in Cuba. ' We get a certain
amount of crosschecking from lists of names fur-

nished us by. several of our agents who. have

Se Qe
SECRET
 

SECRET sc

undergone training, and in confessions of cap-

-tured guerrillas who had been in Cuba.

Thus in the case of Peru, for instance, we come
up with a list of 235 names of individuals known
to have made extended stays in Cuba in 1961 and

1962. We have to make allowance for some who

_did not receive guerrilla training, and allowance

in the opposition direction for those whose names

have escaped our surveillance. But we are guided

in these adjustments by the cross-checking infor-

‘mation I have mentioned.

, Sonie ‘of the trainees arrive, and many go home,

by way. of the Iron Curtain and Western Europe,
using Soviet, Czech, or Cuban aircraft and. prob=
ably. shipping as well for the trip between Cuba
and the Bloc. This is another attempt to conceal
their movements, ‘and in some cases permits fur-
ther indoctrination and training in Bloc countries.
We feel fairly certain that under the circum-

stances our estimate of 1,000 to 1,500 guerrilla

- warfare trainees in 1962 is an accurate one. We

also believe that the tempo of this training is

being stepped up, just as we know that it increased

in 1962 over 1961.

=-3~
- SECRET

J

 
