| SBORE

—
Ba

ete,

LAOS

 

Current Situation Eval iat4on

The principal remaining issues before the. ‘Geneva Conference ’ , Aneluding
SEATO, having. been-resolved. it is anticipated that the new Accords may be
signed next week, There is nevertheless one sericus stumbling block, which
‘endangers the satisfactory conclusion of the Conference, i.e., the possible
refusal of the GVN to sign. The GVN's position stems from ite belief that
so many concessions have been made to the Commnists that the security of
SUN 4s gravely threatened. We are, however, hopeful thet Diem will still
be persuaded that we have achieved the best obtainable compromise for Laos
and that we stand firm on our commitments to SYN. — ;

n Actio

   

There has been little progress on our.action program. We are con-
centrating at present on the following problems:

1. Economic Assistance. Elaboration of our future aid to Laos awaits
the visit of Souvanna Phouma to Waehington, tentatively scheduled for
duly 25-27. In the meantime, we seek to spread the burden of providing
Souvanna with the material assistance he requires ‘by enlisting contribu-
tions from other Free World nations.

2. RLG@ Diplomatic Relations. The RLG's decision to recognize 5 bloc
countries and accept an exchange of Ambassadors poses a major problem with
respect to the GUN. GRC, Federal Republic of Germany and the ROK. Further
action by the RLG is deferred until Souvanne's return to Laog. In the in-
terim we are attempting to assist the pro-Western countries involved in
establishing or mainteining satisfactory representation in Laos.

3. ICC. We have asked our Geneva delegation to request the ICC to
prepare a detailed budget and list of equipment needs so that we will be
prepared to meet quickly our share of the requirements. With regard to
the essential heavy equipment - helicopters and light aircraft - we are
taking steps to make it immediately available to the ICC.

4. KAAG Withdrawal. With the signing of the Accords, we will seek
Canadian cooperation in utilizing to the full the 75-day period for the
withdrawal of foreign military personnel. This will give us the maximum
possible opportunity to determine whether the DRV is abiding by its
commitments and whether the Soviets as Co-Chairman are. carrying out
their undertaking.

_ SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL Ss file
- LL
-8-
BURMA

Current Situation Evaluation

The internal situaticn remains unstable. This fact. was highlighted
by incidents on July 7 and 8 when student demonstrations led by pro- ©
Commnist organizations were ruthlessly repressed by the police and arny.
These incidents could well lead to increased public disaffection with the
Ne Win regime and to a rift between the regime and the cpportunistic
leftist groups who have, heretofore > been its only outspoken civilian
political supporters.

Internal security conditions are apparently continuing to detericrate,
though not dramatically. A special Goverment amnesty offer expired June 30
without producing significant response from the insurgents.

Progress on Action Program
1. Political

-It has been confirned that Brigadier Tin Pe of the Union Revolutionary
Council will come to Washington for medicsl treatment as planned probably
in lete July, although precise dates have not been determined.

2. Economic (AID)

No new developments.

3. Military ;
a. The Burmese are ready formally to accept. the FY 1962 military
"gales" program. State and DOD have agreed to accelerate deliveries of Mz
carbines as requested by the Burmese, to the extent production facilities
permit, in order to contribute to planned post-monsoon counter-insurgency
operations. This action will also, hopefully, earn some political credit
for the United States.

bd. Embassy Rangoon has confirmed that United States training
for Burnese officers will be continued under the FY 1962 program. 117
prospective students heve been procesced for the coming year.

CONFIDENTIAL
‘Current Situation Evaluation

The RIG has accepted the International Court decision awarding the
disputed Phra Viharn Temple to Cambodia. Thai delegates attended the
Geneva Conference on Laos, which reconvened on July 2, but the RTG has
act yet announced its intention to attend the next meeting of the SEATO
Council of Representatives in mid-duly..

On July 2 the US begen the redeployment of 1,000 Merines from the
' Third Marine Expeditionary Brigade at Udorn. Possible Thai concern over
this move wes lessened by our informing them at the same time of a US-
financed program toe improve logistic facilities in Thsiland (see below).

On June 29 police arrested one cuspected Comminist in Chiengrai and
one in Lempang, both in the North of Thailand. The Thai press reports

that subversive documents were confiscated at both locations. Accordii
to unconfirmed reports these documents originated from

 

 

 

 

Progress_on Action Pregram

1. Improved Logistic Facilities —

We have outlined to the RTG our proposed program to improve
logistic facilities in Thailand. The program would consist minly of
a POL pipeline to Korat in the northeast, rolling stock, airfield im-
provement, storage areas, and propositioning of heevy. military: engineer-
ingeguipment. The Thai have agreed to the proposal in principle although
Sarit reserved his decisicn on our request that the RTG provide the right-
of-way for the pipeline and in-country transportation.

2. Internal Security Plen

We have inetructed Embassy Bangkok to ceble eummaries of those
portions of the plan which will not havs been pouched in time to reach
the Department by July 11. This will permit consideration of the basic
components of the entire plan during Secretary McNemera's forthcoming
trip to Honolulu. :

SECRET
SECRET ee
“S-

war effort. Eight posts have reported favorably on the effort, imlicating
no difficulty in placing the photos in leading newspspers.

28. Esteblish Network of USIS Sub-posts.
The GUN hes agreed to the establishment of virtuslly any manber

of USIS sub-posts throughout the country. Negotietions.on Locations and
physical arrangements are underway. ;

SECRET
os

. (b) Third Country Aid. The United States has suggested a
Saigon, and possibly a later Washington meeting of donor country repre-
sentatives to coordinate aid to Viet-Nam. The intention is to stimlate
more third country aid if possible, and to make sure that current third
country contributions are being effectively applied. To date, Australia
aud New Zealand have indicated willingness to participate in such meetings,
Germany will take part in informal Saigon meetings but would not attend
any formal Washington gathering, and the Japanese are "proceeding with
‘eaution" because of the expressed fear that too close identification
with the U.S. will open up Japanese technicians in Viet-Nam to Viet Cong
reprisals. Canada has declined to participate because of its membership
on the ICC. The Belgians. French, Italians and the UK have not yet
responded .

Negotiations for the integration of Australian trainers into
our “MAAG appear near completion. The GVN has indicated its willingness to
receive a New Zealand medical team at any time and the details are being
worked out with Wellington and Saigon.

10, Military Civic Action

The 3ist Engineer Battalion assisted the local population at
Cheo Reo in Pleiku Province in the construction of a Buddhist temple.
In addition to the 150,000 copies of a news sheet distributed weekly by
soldiers to the local civilian population, 35,000 copies of the sheet
were also air dropped. .

 

rations Binh Minh and Hai Yen. Saigon reports both clear-
and-hold operations continuing to make progress without serious WO reaction.
Increased contact with the VC is reported in the Hai Yen area, however, as
the military move into WC territory.

\ Hamlet Councils have been elected in the Hai Yen area, but the
Embassy notes a sericus problem in the fact that a hamlet Council member
receives only 300 piasters (about $4.00) per month for what is theoreti-
cally e full time job. In Operation Binh Minh, an effort will be made to
induce the people to move voluntarily inte the fourth village to be set
up there. The plan calis for extensive propaganda and explanations in ~
advance of the move. establishment of military control over the area so
that the people will be free to move voluntarily, and up to 15 deys to
accomplish the move itself (previous regrouping actions allowed only 8 a
very short period for the physical move).

Montaguards. latest information developed as a result of joint
surveys indicates Montagnard situetion is more a long term problem
than an emergency. There has in fact been a movement of some 17,000 Mon-
‘tagnard as a reaction to VC pressures, and this movement will probsbly
continue, particularly if the GIN provides adequate food and security.

SECRET
SECRET a care
abe

Almozt all Montagnard refugees are at least temporarily resettled and re-
ceiving minimum food, shelter and sesirity.

The Embassy comments that while this information somewhet reduces
the urgency of the problem, it dees not change the problem's magnitude or
importance. Difficulties stemaing from the absence of a well directed,
national Montagnard relief program, limited relief resources, and the Viet-
namese prejudice against the Montagnard contime. But the principal and
most encouraging aspect is the fact that the Montegnard have fled the ve
pressures and more may do so.

Strategic Hamlet Program. The second ten day training course for
90 strategic hamlet cadres was inaugurated by Ngo dinh Nhu in Saigon July 2.

Pature Plans. According to cas,[ |

 

 

 

 

 

'15. Provide Increased Technical Assistance.

Village Radios. As of July h, 817 of the plenned 2500 village
radios were installed and operating. Tests of radios for use on trains
were started.

Defoliation. The Embassy hae proposed a test of the effectiveness
of defoliants against VC food patches in the mountainous area of Operation
Hai Yen. Governor Harriman opposes the use of defoliants on food crops be-
cause of the effect on Asian opinion.. Decision and action will be delayed
until the Governor's return from Geneva.
ate Economic Measures with Counterinsurg

20. ancy Effort.

Agricultural Extension. A pilot training program for agricultural
efforts associated bith Counterineurgency plans opened July 3 in Qui Nhon.
One hundred farmers will study farming and stock raising methods for one
month, including the use of fertilizers and pesticides. .

Provincial itals. Construction of four of the 25 planned
hospital surgical suites began on schedule.
,

Anti-Rat Erogran. The USOM-supported rat destruction campaign was
carried out in ten northern provinces June 12-22, resulting in the destruction

of an estimated 15-20 million rats or 20,000 per..village.

Integ:

    

25. Publicize the Wer Within Viet-Nam and Internationally.

 

Viet-Nam Photo Service. USIS Saigon is sending out a weekly packet
of photoes design enlis ird country interest and support for the GYN

SECRET
PREPARED BY:

 

om
{ é | ;
ee ATG.
SCE SANTTVUED VERON VUL-S1-3 tS NS
ian ; .

no Qe dt

   

Wgts<

SECRET
STATUS REPORT

ON

SOUTHEAST ASIA .

JULY. 01,1962

TASK FORCE SOUTHEAST ASIA

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SECRET ~
176-10036-10179

 

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA f
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10179
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : :

ORIGINATOR : DOS
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : Status Report on Southeast Asia
DATE : 7/11/1962
PAGES : 10
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 203: Vietnam Status 7/11/63. Box 1 ©
SECRET a
VIET-NAM

Current Overall Evaluation

+ The general trend appears slightly fevorable, with the GYN continuing
té"inprove its military, and to a limited extent, its political and econc-
mié position, Basic problems are being eroded but quick and decisive
action 4s rare,. There were no major breakthroughs or important victories .
amd nore appear likely in the immediate future, The Viet Cong show no
weakening in strength or determination despite reportedly heavy losses.

On the military side, Operations Binh Minh and Hai Yen continued

well, Viet Cong casualties were up and their activities dom (there is ~
an unconfined news report that a major battle took place July 3, however,
in which the VC defeated a regular army battalion}, This may be due to
reorganization and weather rather than GUN successes. The GVN took several
good but minor-steps to increase popular support for the war effort, and
several rural erefal and economic programs moved ahead signifisently. On
the international front, there were some favorable responses to our efforts
to set up an aid coordinating group of donor nations, Economic conditions
improved somewhat, with stable prices, credit a little less tight, consu-
mer goods sales and tax collections up, and rice deliveries continued good.

Fearing that the prospective La settlement will facilitate Viet Cong
activities and that it may presage a U. S. move to neutralize Viet-Nam it-
self, the CVN has made difficulties at Geneva over several issues and
threatens to boycott the conference, President Kennedy hae sent Diem a
personal letter stressing the importance we attach toa Laos setilenent
and our determination to continue to help Viet-Nam defend itself, There
is no response as yet, - -

Progress on Action Program

1, W Activity

Viet Cong activity continued at a relatively low level, with armed .
attacks falling to the lowest point over a year, 60, for the pericd 20-27
June and rieing only slightly to 75 for the period June 27 - July lh. The
lack of VW aggressiveness is likely due to the rainy season and their
efforts to regroup in order to counter the improved mebility and perfore
_ mance of the GUN forces, Observing that this appears to be a period of

VC reorganization and essimflation of recent infiltrators, COMUSMACV ro-
ports indications that VC mits. which previously operated as separate
platcons and companies ae now being formed into battalis. Infiltration
evidently continues, but good intelligence is scarce, MACV Je2 estinates
intiltration in May at 800-1,000 and 800 for the first three weeks of June,
but this information 4s unconfirmed and there are no reports of infiitre-
‘tion since. :

' SECRET

 
SECRET ~
De

In spite of reduced VC activity, VC casualties were high and included
some main force personnel. For the pvericd 20-27 June the VC suffered a
reported increase of casualties of almost 25 per cent over the previous .
reporting period. Killed tn action fer the two week period were 965 7
end 141 friendiy forces.

Reports coutinue to indicate a critical VC shortage of medical supplies.
Unconfirmed reports reigs the possibility thet the YC are attaining an enti~
aircraft capability. |

‘(Followiag items are keyed to the Viet-Nam dreft action program of
daly 3) .

2. Strengthen popular supvort. The GVN took severs] steps to generate
more popular support in the last two weeks. These include the July 7 release
of 794 prisoners in connection with the celebration of the "double seven"
holiday (anniversary of Diem's coming to power), a stepped-up drive to root
out low-level corruption and abuse of power by GUN officials, and a Presiden-
tially proposed amendment to the Constitution permitting the questioning of:
Cabinet Ministers both by Committees of the National Assembly and by the
Natiowal Assembly in plenary session. ‘The prisoners released may include
lesding oppositionist Phan Quang Dan, who-has been in prison since his par-
ticipation in the attempted 1960 coup, We have urgad the last item on Dien
in the past in an effort to imcrease the powers and prestige of the National
Asseably. :

Another favorable develcpment is increased emphasis on working with and
for the people in the current training program for strategic hamlet cadres.
Ngo dinh Nhu (President's brother in charge of the stretegic hamlet program)
is concerned that the program win genuine popular support. He favors the
election of hanlet officials by secret ballot inatead of by customary show

‘of hawis. This is now being done in soms hamlets.

kk. Seek International Support

(4) Cambodian Relstions. The GYN replied mildly to the Cambodian
note concerning the ARVN border incursions of June 16. but did not apologize
or offer indemmities. The note insists that all precautions sere taken to
avoid crossing the poorly marked frontier, admits thst in spite of these pre-
cautions the frontier may have been violated. poinis out thet any such inad-
vertent crossing wag not motivated by hostility toward Cambodia, denies the

* arrest of or harm to Cambodian inhebitants, and proposes a mixed border con-

trol comaiites to study frontier incidents and provide for future border
ccoperation.

Ancther source of GVN-RKG friction, disputed coastal islands,
was the subject of an exchange of notes which threatened to stir up further
trouble between Cambodia and Viet-Nam. ,
