601.6
Page 4 - ~~

felt he was directed to do so. He -also has a lengthy record
of arrests and commitments to mental institutions. -
General and Mrs. Eisenhower and Mr. and Mrs. Truman are also
the recipients of critical, abusive and threatening correspondence.
Wives of former Presidents are not immune to the attention of
Mentally ill individuals. Many of these subjects focus their
attention on the wives of former Presidents because they feel
they can accomplish their mission of reaching the former
President through his wife. This Service considers those
subjects dangerous to former Presidents, and also dangerous

; to_ the wives and widows of former Presidents.

oO Cot Norfolk, Virginia, stated when interviewed by
this Service, "I live for the day Ike is killed...z will kill
Eisenhower if the President gave me permission to do so",

is known to have carried weapons and as recently as
March 29, 1968, he again expressed violent hostility toward
General Eisenhower, In the event of General Eisenhower's

gor) death, will almost certainly direct his vehemence
against Mrs. Eisenhower. ——— J austin State
Hospital, Austin, Texas, began writing threatening and obscene

letters to Mrs. Eisenhower in 1959. He is still considered
very dangerous and his interest in Mrs. Eisenhower is unabated.

Ww) | | May 21, 1967, wrote a letter to
ale ormer President Truman, in which he stated "you are well

aware how I can trace my problems directly to you, and this
letter is your death sentence". This letter was written
approximately two weeks after had also sent a
threatening letter to President Johnson. (—__)was
arrested and committed to a mental hospital from which he

a) _ subsequently eloped and robbed a bank in St. Louis, Missouri.

pleves He committed suicide shortly after the bank robbery. A

psychiatrist stated that (~=§Jhad been hearing voices
for some time'and that these voices were telling him that
thought machines were controlling his mind. ‘The doctors
stated that (Iwas extremely dangerous to both President
Johnson and former President Truman and to any persons connected
with them.
 

 

 

601.0
Page 5

Extensive background investigations must be conducted to

permit the evaluation of subject's protective interest and
degree of danger. For example, those individuals who have a
sinister interest in Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy and wives of
former Presidents have the means to travel quickly from one
jurisdiction te ancther, both nationally and internationally.
Local law enforcement agencies rarely conduct such investigations,
nor do they furnish information concerning dangerous individuals
to other police agencies. If this Service was not responsible
for the protection of Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy, law enforcement
agencies in areas where she travels and resides would be
unaware of any threats against her life, except those which
occurred in their own respective jurisdiction.

The illustrations furnished in this memorandum do not show

the full scope of the problem concerning mentally ill and
dangerous individuals who have shown interest in Mrs. Jacqueline
Kennedy, General and Mrs. Eisenhower and Mr. and Mrs. Truman.
The Intelligence Division presently has files concerning 678
individuals who have expressed specific interest in a widow of
a President, Mrs. Jacqueline Kennedy. Of this number, 252, by
action of statement, have directly or indirectly threatened
Mrse Kennedy or her children. Investigations are still being
conducted by this Service every 90 days on 59 of the subjects
to permit their evaluation and to confirm addresses, mental —
condition, etc.

Two thousand, eight hundred and eighty seven (2,887) individuals
are of record because of their specific interest in General

and Mrs. Eisenhower. Of this number, 923 at one time were
considered dangerous; quarterly investigations are conducted

on 56 individuals still considered dangerous and exhibiting

a continued intexest in General and Mrs. Eisenhower.

Two thousand, six hundred and forty six (2,646) Intelligence »
Division files reflect specific interest was exhibited by
subjects for Mr. and Mrs. Truman. Of this number, 946 were
considered dangerous at one time. Quarterly investigations
are currently being conducted on 23 individuals who continue
their interest in the Trumans and are considered dangerous.
ger

. 601.0
Page 3 ane

 

March 18,.1964, i ee ef Mingo Junction, Ohio,
travelled to Washington ana stated he wanted "to have Jacqueline
Kennedy". He said if she would not come to him, he would

"go get her", and he added President Kennedy asked him™to

take care of her. was committed to a mental
institution and has been diagnosed schizophrenic paranoid.
Since May, 1964, Buffalo, New York, has

continuously attempted to see Mrs. Kenedy. He believes
he is Mrs. Kennedy's reincarnated husband and considers
himself a member of her famil His name was legally
changed from to ecause of- this
delusion. A third individual, C
Wisconsin, has also attempted to see Mrs. Kennedy since
1964. In March of that year, he was arrested in Newark,
New Jexsey, while travelling to Washington, DeC., to have
lunch with Mrs. Kennedy. Cis a homosexual and has
been a mental patient for Many years. He authored obscena
telegrams to Mrs. Kennedy on at least one occasion.

  
  

The third group concerns subjects who feel they were
personally responsible for or involved with the death of
President Kennedy. ‘These subjects include individuals who suffox
from the most severe forms of mental illness and are
considered very dangerous. on May 30, 1967, :

Washington, D.C., was arrested when she attempted
to extinguish the flame on the Kennedy grave. She is
obsessed with the Kennedy family and believes President
Kennedy is alive and Mrs. Kennedy is unfaithful to him.

On June 4, 1968, she threatened "I will get Jackie Kennedy".

as a lengthy criminal record dating back to 1949,
which includes 16 arrests for assaults with a knife and
razor, eight arrests for robbery and several additional
arrests for arson and narcotics violations. This Service
considers her to be very dangerous. She is presently a
maximum security patient at St. Elizabeths Hospital,

Washington, D.C, | was interviewed by this
Service July 2, 1964 because o is obsession with the

President's assassination, He later wrote to Mrs. Kennedy
to tell her he tried to prevent the assassination. In 1959
this subject threatened to kill General Eisenhower because he
 

wor

601.0
_ Page 2

Three new groups of abnormal individuals appeared, following
the President's assassination, and each subject exhibited
an undue and often violent preoccupation with Mrs. Kennedy
and her children. One group concerns individuals who
attempted to obtain financial assistance from Mrs. Kennedy
because they considered her to be the widow of a wealthy

man. It is apparent the same opportunists will direct their

attention toward future widows of Presidents, making them
targets of mentally ill people, seeking financial assistance
for some bizarre invention and personal venture. Generally,
the "money seekers" are considered obnoxious, rather than
dangerous; however, our files contain several cases concerning
individuals who have exhibited violent tendencies when they
are rebuffed in their financial pleas. They continue to be
of concern to this Service. a French citizen,
appeared at the American Embassy, Paris, November 23, 1965
and claimed Mrs. Kennedy owed her a large sum of money. She

‘ stated if the debt was not paid, she would kidnap Mrs. Kennedy

and her children. This subject is considered dangerous and
has been diagnosed schizophrenic paranoid.

of New York, wrote an anonymous letter to Mrse Kennedy on
April 21, 1964, demanding a gift of $10,000, stating "I
could kidnap your children and hold them for ransom". She
has also been diagnosed as schizophrenic paranoid.

A second category includes men who exhibit amorous intentions
toward Mrs. Kennedy. These subjects, who are of course
mentally deranged, either propose marriage or express a desire
to enter into an illicit relationship with her, as they feel
she is in need of companionship. Their "love" soon turns to
hate and their attitude is expressed in extremely obscene and
abusive letters. Some of these subjects make direct threats
against the life of Mrs. Kennedy. It is also not uncommon
for one of these subjects to focus his attention on the wives

-of former Presidents, If they become widows, the subjects

will most certainly escalate their abnormal attention. On
= 3S.

Another similar situation was avoided at an important function at
the Plaza Hotel in New York City when General Eisenhower was es-
* corted to a position at the head table. However, Mrs. Eisenhower
had inadvertently been overlooked. The Secret Service, through
advance planning, was able to arrange escort to Mrs. Eisenhower
to a front table without embarrassment to anyone. Instances such
as the above occur daily when the Secret Service travels with
General and Mrs. Eisenhower.

Mrs. Eisenhower has an inner ear problem which makes it difficult
“for her to maintain balance. Thus, it becames necessary for an
escort to be constantly at her side to assist her in maintaining |
balance while standing, walking or using stairs.

Since General Eisenhower's recent serious illness, Mrs. Eisenhower
has voiced extreme concern as to her future should the General die
and the protection afforded by the Secret Service be discontinued.

 
TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

, ow”

 

 

a GOVERNMENT U.S. SECRET SERVICE
Memorandum | 601.0 :
Deputy Director ; DATE: September 8, 1968

Assistant Director Kelley -
Protective Intelligence _

Protective Intelligence infomation Regarding Widows and Wives
of Foxmer Presidents

A review has been made of all Intelligence Division files
and indices to determine the extent and type of interest
exhibited by subjects toward former Presidents, their
wives, and widows. The review indicates a widow of a former
President receives substantially more attention from cranks
and individuals, both dangerous and not dangerous, than do
wives of former Presidents. This phenomenon seems to occur
because of a subject's tendency to transfer ‘attention
previously directed toward the former President. Persons
who directed claims or threats against the former President
often continue to pursue their activity in regard to the
widow.

Subsequent to the assassination of President Kennedy,
individuals who previously expressed abnormal and sometimes
violent interest in the President directed their interest
toward Mrs. Kennedy and her children.
Brockton, Massachusetts, is representative of this group.
On September 12, 1961, he threatened to shoot President
Kennedy and even attempted to get a gun permit. on July ll,
1964, he appeared at Mrs. Kennedy's Hyannisport home to find
out from her why he had been placed in a mental institution
her husband's administration. When interviewed,
intimated Mrs. Kennedy shared the responsibility
of his mental commitment.

SANITIZED
E.O. 12958, Sec. 3.6
NLJ_ 95-152.
By_ct___, NARA Date 0-29-24

 

zy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Pexroll Savings Plan
 

os

TREASURY DEPARTMENT [Qe
U.S. SECRET SERVICE ————.,

Date Oct. 2, 1968 - 6:30 pm

To: Mr, President

 

In regard to our telephone conversation on
the evening of September 30, 1968, I am

ing you with five (5) sets (envelopes)
of Protective Intelligence information con-
cerning Mrs. Kennedy, the Eisenhowers and
the Trumans.

You only need to browse through one of the
envelopes since they each contain the same

Rufus W. Youngblood
Deputy Director

L2e4 eepes Hat & fe Tired flew Jy Pie)
   

4 CF ame:
.-EISENHOWER PROTECTIVE DIVISION
. PROTECTIVE INTELLIGENCE
SITUATION REPORT

Whoever occupies the Presidency also inherits the ‘incipient dangers
that it is-the duty, by law, of the Secret Service to combat. The
past decade, with its improved news media coverage has emphasized
the role of the President's wife upon the world's political and

emotional scene. .In view of the foregoing, the "First Lady", now,

more than ever before, acquires the image associated with her Presi-
dent husband. Should the President pass on, either while in or out
of office, his widow will, in varying degrees, fali heir to many of
the dangerous and/or varying annoyances that had beset her husband.

In essence -.the security requirements needed to sustain a reason-

ably normal evironmental atmosphere for the situation of "President
and First Lady" are also required with modification, for the situa-
tion of "First Lady".

SECURITY REQUIREMENTS, EISENHOWER PROTECTIVE DETAIL
—————SES=S—=—_—_—_ywHuaE Er PRVILECTIVE DETATI

In Septenber 1965, Federal Law became effective which provided former
Presidents with the opportunity to acquire a protective detail from

the Secret Service. Former President Dwight D. Eisenhower gratefully
acoepted such coverage and stated clearly that his prime motivation

was. his great concern for the safety of Mrs. Eisenhower.

With the wishes of former President Eisenhoyer in mind, the Secret
Service has been involved with almost equal concentration upon the
needs of Mrs. Eisenhower. ‘the security confidence that has been
established between Mrs. Eisenhower and the Secret Service has de-
veloped to the extent where she has publically stated she cannot
feel safe except with our agents present.

Mrs. Eisenhower has directly related her appreciation of Secret Ser~
vice efforts to President Johnson and Secretary of the Treasury
Fowler; further, discontinuance of such coverage would constitute

~-a-loss she cannot absorb.

EVALUATION OF DISTAFF SECURITY NEEDS
—— eee

The problem of mail as a prelude to physical violence, real or pre-
tended and/or a source of mental anguish is presented in the Intelli-
gence Division Report. It becomes a matter of prime concern, however,
when one must consider that as mich as 60,000 items of mail may be
processed by General Eisenhower's Office ina given year. Prior to

DECLASSIFIED _

AuthorttyEMS 49-1527

Bub ye

NARA, DateLl024-40]
the arrival of the Secret Service petail, there were several. occasions

when threatening and abusive mail was to the extreme degree that

also been utilized in many similar circumstances - However, such
efforts were piece meal and follow-up activities were insufficient.

Herein lies 4 problem in communication and coordination petween geo~
aphical Jocations and various law enforcement agencies. The secret
Service now has the capabilities, not only at 4 state or national

Jevel, but on a world-wide pasis-

_ felephone calls present the same pasic problems as mentioned above.
However; the present telephonic procedures are such that the Secret

an agent has for all intent and purpose pecame Mrs. Eisenhower's

asi, social and business secretary - In this capacity, pusiness
and social engagements » as well as press exposure and travel arrange
ments, are under strict control of an agent.

EFFECT OF SECURITY MEASURES

Shortly after General Eisenhower left the presidency, Mrs. Riserhower's

car was purglarized of personal property and various items of medi
ions, persons would trespass on the

Bisenhower Farm at Gettysburg, which would frighten Mrs. FRisenhower.

The above todk place prior to the assignment of the secret Service to

dences. ‘The service also instituted a program of automobile security
and proper car maintenance which has eliminated both the theft and road
 preakdown problems -

Mrs. Eisenhower also keeps large amounts of jewelry which is of great
intrinsic, personal and historical value at the Fam. She is in the

habit of carrying much of this jewelry with her when she travels. The
presence of the Secret Service agents has substantially decreased her

Other than the obvious physical protection afforded Mrs. Risenhower by
this Service is the aid to her in avoiding enbarrassing situations ii
volving harmless and well-meaning people such as is the following:

Fach year Mrs. Fisenhower attends a penefit fashion ghow 1n Palm pesert,

jhe Secret service has been able to arrange program activities to avoid
this enbarrassing situation. : :

 

 
