oe

SECRET

4. Disputed Tracts on Rio Grande

There remain several tracts on the Rio Grande over
which sovereignty is in dispute. We desire to havé the
International Boundary arid Water Commission study these
problems and recommend a solution.

5; Control of Narcotiés

Mexico and the United States are cooperating in
controlling the importation of narcotics and dangerous
drugs ifito the United States. We should strengthen this
cooperation in the mutual interest of both countries. We
: hope therefore that Mexico will agree to periodic meetings
-of the highest law enforcement officers of the two countries.

6. Desalinization Plant_at Tijuana

An appraisal report by Interior shows that this is
the most economical way to supply water to Tijuana. We
are prepared to go ahead with a feasibility study if
Mexico desire and will share the cost.

MAJOR, POINTS LOPEZ MATEOS IS EXPECTED 'TO RAISE
1. Salinity Problem on Lower Colorado

The Mexican President wants a reaffirmation of ;
President Kennedy's commitment "to reach a permanent and
effective solution at the earliest possible time" of the
salinity problem. We can agree but should avoid any commit-
ment on timing. If Lopez Mateos raises the related problem
Of the groundwater recovery program at Yuma, we agree that
the Boundary Commission should study the problem. Farmers
in the lower Rio Grande Valley are seriously conéernéd
about saline drainage discharged to the river by Mexico and
want the Boundary Commission to achieve an early soliition. to
this problem,

SECRET
Group 2
Exempted from automatic downgrading

4 &

By KR ekiort ba | ae (1G)

HW 50955 Bocld:32205111 Page 5

 

 
SECRET

2. Bracero Program

The Mexican Government is privately seriously
disturbed about the termination of this program.
Congressional oppostion to it is strong and we cannot
commit ourselves to continue the program. “We are” ‘lookin
into’ the” problem to see if anything can be done to help
Mexico. One possibility is an expanded community develop-~
ment program in Mexico through private channels (P.L. 430

foodstuffs through U.S. voluntary agencies) if Mexico is
interested.

   
     

3. Mexico's Concern about U.S. Trade Policies

Mexico is concerned about United States restrictions

or threatened restrictions on textiles, lead, zinc and

meat and other products and United States cotton policies
which it claims hurt Mexican cotton exports to the world
market. We recognize that we are natural markets for

_ @ach other. We desire to expand trade, promote competi-

tion and develop markets. We want to maintain or expand the
present level of access to each other's market but we woul
not be able to guarantee Mexico its present share of our

 

4. Chamizal Settlement

Lopez Mateos wants to be recorded in history as the
man who returned *Se Mexican flag to the Chamizal. He
wants a ceremony gt the Presidential level at El Paso-
Ciudad Juarez before December 1964 to symbolize the Chamizal
settlement. We should only agree to consult later in the
year an an appropriate céremony and a posSible date.

SECRET

     

: Drafted by: Cleared by: . ~

¢ ARA:MEX:RMSayre : ARA - Mr. Mann

s Interior - Mr. Carr

: Mr. Lanning
Labor - Mr. Goodwin

: Treasury - Mr. Giordano

: ; E - Mr. Johnson

: ; FE - Mr. Green

: L_- Mr. Kearne

.
tere rane event nere ante eAMD,

THe tage wenn

:_8/S-S Hawthorne Milis

 

EW 50955 BoclId:32205111 Page 6

 
oS

(). . () secrer ~~ o
‘ : JLM - PBM/1 a
. . February 18, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT Ou fp

Subject : Your Meeting with President Lopez Mateos -°“\

 

We do not expect to make any major political decisions
but want to give new emphasis to the friendly relations
which exsist between Mexico and the United States. These
relations are now at an all-time high. Mexico felt it had
a real friend in President Kennedy. They feel the same
relationship exsists with you but want to be reassured.

A warm Texas handshake and abrazo when you greet Lopez Mateos
at Los Angeles would symbolize the continuance of that

relationship. Pee!

We want to stress the identity of interests of our

two countries and sur ability to work out in the "spirit
of El Chamizal" any problems: that may arise between us.

Despite the informal atmosphere of the visit, we
should give scrupulous attention to Mexico's extreme
sensitivity on sovereign equality and Mexico's strong
desire to avoid-any appearance of subservience to. the
United States © . ’ ne ee

“Lopez Mateos speaks for the Mexican Government

and no important decision is made without his approval.
He“has followed an "independent" foreign policy but

knows that good relations with us, especially in the
economic sphere, are essential to his country... At. times
his foreign policy has. been too independent®-for °™
example-on Cuba and in'commercial and cultural rela-

tions with Communist China. But when fundamental issues 22
are at stake we have usually found him understandin

and willing to be helpful--controlling travel of

Castro’ agents, non-recognition of Red China, offering

help on Panama. we ;
'.... Lopez Mateos has chosen his successor, Gustavo DIAZ
Ordaz, who Will take office in December 1964 after

elections in July. Power. is therefore drifting toward

Diaz Ordaz, -
SECRET -
Group 2

Exempted from automatic downgrading
by: Robert M. Sayre

 

HW 50955 DoclId:32205111 Page 2

 

 
477-10002-10070

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

LBJ
177-10002-10070

NSF, COUNTRY FILE, MEXICO, LOPEZ MATEOS VISIT, BOX 61

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :

: CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

HW 50955 DBocId: 32205111

Document Information

STATE
DEAN RUSK
THE PRESIDENT

02/18/1964
5

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

MEMORANDUM
Unclassified

1B; 4

Redact
04/21/1998

DOC. #10

Page 1

8/26/201
SECRET

-2-

Enclosed is a paper on points which it is suggested
you raise at the meeting, and those which it is believed
Lopez Mateos will raise.

Dean Rusk

Enclosure:

-Paper on points to be
Yaised at meeting.

HW 50955 DBoclId:32205111 Page 3

 
C O

Bode fb ae we ye SECRET

 

MAJOR POINTS OF INTEREST. TO THE UNITED STATES
SE SED STATES

ne, i. General Information and Hemisphere Relations
EE LOS

tinue close working relations with
d outside the OAS and the UN.-...

  
    
 

 

LN PE . a
ontinueto use its key political
position to help control Castro Communism.

) its: cooperation
mment on Mexican

        

. _ Sent itr et
control measures.
nc ee

“Mexico has offered its assistance on Panama. Mexico

is not aware of the role of President Orlich of Costa Rica
in mediation efforts and we do not desire that this come to
Mexico’s attention. We welcome Mexico's assistance within
an OAS context. — : ; ood

2.- Red China’:
: The coming visit of De Gaulle to Mexico and Brazil in
March has prompted speculation that. these two countries

are about to recognize Red China. teos has given

us secret assurances, that he has

no intention of recogn Red China. We do not desire
ee HOE _Cesire

to raise this issue, but. if Lopez Mateos raises it, we
shou et him know we are aware of his assurances,

_3. Mexico's Role in the“Alliance for Progress
. ee te ai liance for Progress

Mexico's participation in’ the Alliance is essential

 

make a greater contribution.

to promote private enterprise and we also want to encourage
Mexico along this line. We sh

with Mexico in maintaining financial Stability and promoting
economic development. ae ;

SECRET
Group 2
Exempted from automatic vine

 

By firs

nd fig a a (en

 

HW 50955 DocId:32205111 Page 4

 

 
