SECRET

near future in a magazine called America
Latina, intended especially for distribu-
tion in Latin America.

5. A pamphlet, apparently to be distributed
by the institute, and entitled Alianza para
el Progreso, will in the words of its
heralds, “unmask the economic expansion of
the USA" in Latin America.

6. The institute expects to enter into close
contact with the principal Latin American
Scientists and academicians during 1963.

VI. One of the most important Communist assets in Latin
America is large number of Bloc diplomatic and Cuban
missions. These missions are used to further Com-
munist subversive activities even in countries where
there are no Bloc diplomatic missions,

A. AS can be seen on this map the USSR, and in some
cases some Satellites as well, have diplomatic
missions in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay.
The USSR maintains relations with Bolivia but has
no resident mission there. Cuba maintains em-
bassies in Mexico, Brazil, Bolivia, Uruguay, and
Chile. The Chinese Communists, of course, have

no diplomatic ties in Latin America except with

-8-

SECRET

BW 50955 Bocld:32205164 Page 9

 
SECRET

Cuba. That fact alone would make Cuban missions

important to the Chinese. Only Seven Latin

American countries--Chile, the Dominican Republic,

Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, and

Peru--have no official ties whatever with any

' bloc country.

B. Uruguay offers a good example of how the Commu-
nists misuse diplomatic missions and the impor-
tance the Communists attach to them.

1. We have found that Communist subversive ac-
tivities in Uruguay are not now aimed at pro-
“moting revolutionary activity against the
government. In this case even the Cubans
appear to be much more interested in retain-
ing the good will of the government so that
they can continue to use the country as a
base of operations against Argentina, Para-
guay, etc.

2. Communist diplomatic missions, however, are
active in supporting local Communists and
other pro-Castro groups to retain enough
leverage within the country so as to pre-
vent the anti-Castro groups from forcing a
break in relations. The badly split Uru-

guayan government itself is anti-Communist,

-9-

SECRET

BW 50955 Bocld:32205164 Page 10

 

 
SECRET

V. Direct Soviet interest in Latin America is clearly

increasing. .

A. An excellent ‘example of this was the setting up
early in 1962 of a Latin American Institute in
the Academy of Sciences of the USSR.

1. The avowed purpose of this institute is to
raise the study of the problems of Latin
America, which in their own statements the
Soviets claim they have neglected, to the
highest possible level.

2. Teaching of Spanish and Portuguese languages
is to be stressed in the institute and through-
out the school system.

3. A list of subjects on which this institute
intends to publish shows that it is to be
used to attack the Alliance for Progress; it
bas already attacked the Alliance program in
Colombia--a showpiece of the Alliance.

4, We have been reliably informed that posters
have been placed in some Colombian universi-
ties referring to the problems of the "na-
tional liberation and workers' movements in
Latin American countries" as topics which
will be studied by the institute. Results

of these studies will be published in the

-T=
SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32205164 Page 6

 
SECRET

i. In Brazil an increasing number ‘of leftists
have been appointed to positions of impor-
tance in the government. The government
has recently been loosening its traditional
ties with the United States and has shown
signs of heading into the neutralist" camp.
Its dire economic straits make it a likely
target for expanded Bloc economic exploita-
tion. .

2. Bolivia has been controlled by a leftist
movement since the sweeping revolution of
1952. The government continually shows
favoritism to Communists. Vice President
Juan Lechin, recently made Ambassador to
Italy, has maintained ‘liaison with the Com-
munist party over the past year. ._He is a
leading contender in the presidential elec-
tion to be held in 1964. . .

3. In Argentina the extremely unstable politi-
cal and économie situations provide an ideal
atmosphere for the type of coalition maneu-
vering in which Soviet~influenced Coninunists

engage.

~G=
SECRE

EW 50955 Bocld:32205164 Page 7

 
SECRET

1. "The Brazilian case is the only clear split
so far noted in the major Latin American
parties, but the Paraguayan Communists have
just conducted a purge of some 34 members
and leaders for deviationist thinking.

2. The Ecuadorean Communist Party has dis-
owned two leaders who have attempted to
organize guerrilla bands without party sanc-
tion. One of them, Manuel Araujo Hidalgo,
returned “in early 1962 from a trip to China
where he reportedly received some support.

3. Other parties have these problems as well.
There are many impatient leaders and more
followers who want to get on immediately .
with revolutionary economic, social and .
political reforn, .

IV. In spite of differences over tactics and timing be-
tween various Communist groups, all intend eventually
to deliver the Latin American countries into the Com-
munist-socialist bloc. The so-called Soviet *"conserva—
tive" view, as it is now espoused, is more intent on
trying to achieve power by legal means if possible -and

by subversion rather than by force,

-4-
SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32205164 Page 5

 
"SECRET

Ag Chile represents an inviting opportunity for the
Communists to take power ‘legally.
1. The present outlook-is that there is at
least an even chance for election of an
anti-US, Communist coalition government in
1964,
2.° The Communist party, legal in Chile, is a
"small but influential factor in the organized
opposition to President Allesandri's con-
servative government. The Communists effec-
tively control the left-wing coalition of
Communists, Socialists and National Democrats.
3. Socialist Senator Salvador Allende is this
coalition's presidential candidate in the
-1964 elections. He was defeated by only a
narrow margin in the 1958 election.
4, This coalition has increased its popular sup-
port since 1958 by advocating wage increases
and social reform projects vetoed by Ales~
sandri on orthodox economic grounds.
B. From the Soviet point of view other Latin Ameri
can countries also appear to be drifting in the

right direction.

Se
SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32205164 Page 6

 

 
a SECRET 4

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES 18 February 1963
RIVAL FORCES IN LATIN AMERICAN’ SUBVERSION

I. Since the October crisis, Fidel Castro has obviously
been trying to straddle the rift between Moscow and
Peiping over global Communist strategy. As Mr. Martin
aptly put it yesterday, Castro's heart is in Peiping
but his stomach is in Moscow.

Ii. This same split between all-out militancy and a more
cautious policy--call it coexistence or "two steps
forward, one step back"--is reflected on the extreme
left in many Latin American countries.

Tir. Thus Cuba at present not only seeks to serve two mas-

‘ters, but choose among rival servants in its Latin

American subversion,

A. Castro's views on what..is good for socialism and
revolution in Latin America. are more in line with
those of the Chinese Communists than the Soviets.
1. Latin American delegates to the East Ger-

man Party Congress last month told one of
our high-level and reliable agents in the
Communist party on their return that most
Latin. American Communist party representa~
tives strongly supported the position of

the USSR regarding the differences between

SECRET

HW 50955 DBoclId:32205164 Page 2

 

 
417-10002-10017

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: — 177-10002-10017
RECORD SERIES: | NSF, UNARRANGED FILES, LA/CUBAN SUBVERSION, BOX 5
AGENCY FILENUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: = CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: — 02/18/1963
PAGES: 1]

SUBJECTS :
NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1 ; 16
HW 50955 DoclId:32205164 Page 1
SECRET

4

it and China... Both the Cuban and Venezuelan
representatives took a "neutral position,"
that is, they did not support the Soviets.
((Veteran high-level Venezuelan Communist,
FALN leader, from Venezuelan delegate to .
the congress.)) )

2. Last summer a group of dissident Brazilian
Communists who had split off from the regu-
lar party went to Cuba to seek Castro's sup-
port for their movement. According to one
of our established sources among the dissi-
dents ((former Central Committee member of ©
regular party, now on dissident central com—
mittee)), they got it. castro advised them
to organize guerrilla activities and launch
a revolution as quickly as possible. He
reportedly told the group that powerful
revolutionary movements were being built
up in Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, and
Peru.

3. The activities of the splinter-group Com-
munists has so rankled the regular party
that its leader, Luiz Carlos Prestes, a

veteran in the Communist movement in Latin

-2-
SECRET

HW 50955 DBocld:32205164 Page 3

 

 
SECRET

. America, left on 7 February on a trip to
Moscow, Prague, and Havana to build a

, counter-fire against:.the dissidents. Ac-
cording to two reliable covert sources in
the regular party ((members of national com-
mittee on organization ‘and member of the
Sao Paulo state committee)), Prestes planned
to stop in Prague to arrange with the Chi-
nese Communist Ambassador there to send two
representatives to Peiping to make a direct
complaint about support being given by Com-
munist China to the splinter group. Prestes
plans to stop on his way back in Havana to
discuss Cuban support for that same splinter

‘group. While in Moscow he reportedly will
discuss the Sino-Soviet ideological differ-
ences and assure the Soviets of his party's
support. .

B. Only the Cuban and Venezuelan Communist parties
are totally committed to terror and revolution, . Else-
where in Latin America the Communist parties of-
ficially support more moderate Soviet views but
there are serious dissensions among some of the
leaders and within the membership. The Cuban mis-

Sile crisis exacerbated these differences.

~3-
SECRET

BW 50955 DoclId:32205164 Page 4

 

 
