ma Said that she had now separated from her husband, that

she was not going to continue to live with a drunken and promiscuous
man, She identified him as a lobbyist, though she would not tell me
whom he worked for, She said he was in

» Where she said
was just as well known as she was on the Hill. She Slept with many

of the .
I gathered that was alobbyist in connection vith

MMMM, seid that the lobbyists, together with the staff members
on Capitol Hill, had what they called "playpens", which were located
at the

 

    
  
  

    

she said,

was full of single girls. There was also the
ee rs

She deseribed the as the biggest:

ickup joint in Washington and that the
Wz had tie-ins with the lobbyists.

a

yue,

   

     
 
  
  

She also said that
of the gambling cl

  

I forgot to mention that (RB reply, when MA asked her
if she realized what she did to men's wives and children, was "bull
shit."
Thursday, December 1, 1966

A woman telephoned me, who later identified herself as a iy
Telephone - <I had a couple of telephone conversations with
her, extending over two or three days, regarding what she described
as the "brothel house on Capitol Hill." She particularly identified
a girl whom she said worked for ee

, and who had telephoned her from a

"Why don't you give your husband a
He's sleeping with me."

    
  
   

motel in Washington asking:
divorce,

   

She said that it was a common practice of secretaries on the Hill to
cohabit with their bosses and with various lobbyists: "These are
predatory females," she said. "They go for the middle aged lobbyist
with large expense accounts. It's the girls who seek out the men,
The lobbyists attend the staff parties.

which is loaded with lobbyists try-
ing to ge ax concessions,

She named

 

and. acted aS a procurer for the lobbyists.

In a second conversation vith ae she gave further details
about her ownlife, though she 'said she did not want to get involved

in a way that would hurt and_ she did not really want to
talk to me in person, She said that had telephoned her
saying: "I am in a motel room with your husband. If you don't be-
ileve me, I am going to have him talk to you. I am twenty years
younger than you, and I have got the advantage over you,"

WR ss2ic that MB cot hysterical, She told her, "Ob-

viously you are twenty years younger because you are hysterical,"
"Why don't you divorce hin?" asked.

"Because he's never asked me," she replied.

GE sic she was pregnant, which was the reason she was hysteri-
eal,

‘then EE came to the telephone, he was obviously drunk. His
wife told him: "I understand you have a pregnant girlfriend, "

"It's not my baby," he replied. "She's had an abortion before."

In either this or another conversation ME 01: the girl:
"Do you realize what you do to men's wilves and children. "

Authority Dengc's { CO

By. NARA Datesd-$-!+
