 

(TYPED AS IS)

EYES ONLY

178-10002-10158
S-E-C-R-E-T

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: First Meeting of Branch 4 Task Force, 9 March 1960

 

 

PARTICIPANTS: Col. J. C. King, CWH; J, D. Esterline, C/WE/4
Office of Security; Col. B. H. Vandervort, OTR; |
Office of Communications; Mike Ting, Comptroller; Scudder Georgia
DDS; Mr. Robert Macre, PP Staff; Ralph W. Brown, Office of
PP Staff; Col; -Gharles Cocke, OF/MPD,
[TSD; Casimiro Barquin, DPD; Mr; E. A, Stanuli

 

 

f

Logistics;

 

OSOLOH.

 

WH/4/PM

l, Mr. Esterline briefed the group on the current situation in Cuba
with the report that an alert has been sounded to initiate Phase One of the ©
unified evacuation plan in Cuba, He added that this group would be working

largely together in operational programming and planning.

“Gol, King told the group that the DCI is presenting a special policy

2.
‘He mentioned growing evidence that certain

‘ “paper to the NSC 5412 representatives,
of the "heads'' in the CASTRO Government have been pushing for an attack

on the U.S, Navy installation at Guantanamo Bay and said that an 1 attack on
‘the installation is in fact, possible, :

°3, Col, King stated that the first problem in this operation is how

to reach the mass of Cubans with the truth. To date, he said, we have been

denied use of certain American islands that might be useful for either PP

or PM activities, In addition, a number of Chiefs of State of friendly

smaller countries are, at the moment, unwilling to ''stick their necks out

further to support an operation directed at the overthrow of the CASTRO regime
They are in fact, worried that their respective countries may soon

be the victims of Cuban exploitation, He said that unless Fidel and Raul

CASTRO and Che GUEVERA could be climinated in See package - which is highly
unlikely - this operation can be a long, drawn-out affair and the present
government will only be overthrown by the use of force. ,

ABVdGIT G4or -y aiwagzs gHL KOI Ad

: 4, Returning to.the basic operational premises, Col. King said that
the first problem is to reduce the base of support of the CASTRO Government
with the masses (reportedly the regime now enjoys the support of between
60 and 70 percent of the population), An additional problem is that opposition
forces have no real leader and are divided into many parts with some
of them, sUiscepti ible to merger than others, Three groups appear to be satis-
factory ‘for initial exploitation and each of these has been asked to come up a

with names of potential candidates for paramilitary and allied training.

After training, this group could become the instructor cadre to train additional
i

| Cuban covert action groups. .
\ : EYES ONLY S-EC-R-E-T
WWF 50955 DocId:32204904 Page 2
178-10002-10158

JFK Assassination System . Date:

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9}

8/27/201

 

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178-10002-10158

ASSASSINATION FILES

A-I(G) CIA CORRES.--ASSASSINATIONS (1)

 

Document Information

CIA
UNSIGNED
FOR THE RECORD

FIRST MEETING OF BRANCH 4 TASK FORCE, 9 MARCH 1960

03/09/1960
3

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CIA

MEMORANDUM
Unclassified
Consulted

Redact

11/03/1995

Minutes of meeting.

105

HW 50955 Docld:32204904 — Page 1
EYES ONLY
S E-C-R-E-T

5. The DCI, Col. King said, has approved the training of the instructor
cadre ata U.S, military installation. The principal installation under
consideration at this time is Fort Sherman in the Canal Zone which is under
the control of the U.S. Army's Jungle Warfare Training Center. The DCI has
also approved the Phase Two training, that is the training of Cuban action
groups, in non-U.S, territory. A given area in one of the Caribbean countries
has been offered and is under consideration, Col. King expressed the opinion
that the minimum time that will be consumed in this training will be between
6 and 7 months, It is hoped that during this period the acceptable opposi-
tion groups will have been merged and will have formed a government~in-exile
to which all trained elements could be attached.

6, Col, King, addressing himself to the enemy's capabilities and
programs, said that CASTRO will unquestionably continue to train and arm
various worker and student groups who can be mobilized into militia elements
in support of the regular military establishment of Cuba, He added that
reports indicate that CASTRO has more arms and ammunition available to him
now than BATISTA had at the height of his power and warned that under no
circumstances should we underestimate the capabilities of the enemy. He
said that the Cuban operation would be far more difficult and complicated
than the previous one conducted by this Division and that before this prob- '
lem is solved, major operations will be necessary.

7,  Capsulizing various intelligence reports, Col, King said the Cubans
are now initiating operations with an objective of establishing revolutionary
movements in the Caribbean area that are not limited to those countries
that are under dictatorships. With Ambassadors acting as chiefs of operations,
the Cuban Government apparently hopes to overthrow the existing national
governments and establish in their place governments that are far left and
that are friendly to, and if possible, controlled by Cuba, Naturally, he
added, this is generally in line with the objectives of International
Communism which are, and for some time have been, to divide the traditional
solidarity of the Latin American countries to the detriment of U,S, national

security and.foreign policy objectives.

8, In terms of operational problems, Col, King stated that he knew of

no Latin American country whose people were less secure operationally than

‘Cubans, On the CI side, he said that it is known that CASTRO has more than

' 122 agents in the Miami area alone,

9. In summarizing the more immediate requirements and possibilities,
Mr. Esterline said that the support of all offices represented at the meeting
will be required on a continuing basis. He added that support from the

Office of Security, Logistics, and OTR and others would be needed comparatively

soon in:

2
EYES ONLY
SECR-ET

HW 50955 Docld:32204994 Page 3

AUVdGIT Quod -w atwaqo gHL WOUd AdOOOLOHA
|

HW 50955 ~°DoCLa: 32207908" Page 4 ~

weekly.

a EYES ONLY

S-EC-R-E-T
Assessment of potential recruits to the instructor cadre,

b. Establishment of an operational base which will probably be located
in the Miami area,

The establishment of a secure base in a foreign country for the
training of Cuban action groups,

ce.

10. He said that while we are awaiting national policy authorizations,
Branch is proceeding with its planning operations and is preparing two
jects at this time, one to cover extensive radio operations which probably
will include the establishment of a 'gray'' radio transmitter and another
sabject for the development of air and maritime capabilities for the in-exfil-

tration of men and materiel,

i. | He suggested that the group of specialists meet here at the Branch
The next meeting will be held on Tuesday, 15 March,* Although the
overall Cuban project per se does not, as yet, have a cryptonym, Mr, Esterline
explained the reasons for the formation of Branch 4 in WE Division and
suggested that.use of 'Branch 4'' in communications would be sufficient to

“eetify | the subject,

12, . He mentioned that the following Branch 4 personnel would be in
contact with the participants at the meeting from time to time for planning

the operational purposes:

Mr. RoberttReynolds; DC/WH/4
Mr. David Phillips, Radio Operations

Mr. Phillip: ‘Toomeys- ‘PP
Mr. | |Economic Action

 

 

 
 

tamnulis;’ Plans and PM Ops

13, Mr, Esterline indicated that an additional step in obtaining policy
for operational support from other elements of the U.S, Government would be

ud dTWaaS AHL WOUA AdODOLOHA

AUWdaIT duog

taken tomorrow, Thur sday, 10 March 1960, when certain WE and PP Staff personnel

would confer with Captain Spore, USN, a member of the Staff of the Office of
Naval Operations, Department of Defense,

* 0900 hours

3 .

: EYES ONLY
S-EC-R-E-T
