 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co.; that the CIA might have travel
voucher records showing his travel during that year and that CIA should
also have records on the dates on which he took sick leave or annual

leave.

Mr. Hunt categorically denies that he has been involved in any way what-
soever with the assassination of President Kennedy, Senator Robert
Kennedy, Martin Luther King, or any other person either within or without
the United States. He similarly denies any participation or involvement
whatever in the attempted assassination of Governor Wallace, the
disappearance of Congressman Hale Boggs or the shooting of Senator

Stennis.

He states that in connection with the planning for the Cuban invasion in
1961, he did suggest that Fidel Castro should be assassinated either before
or contemporaneously with that invasion, but his suggestion was not acted
upon or otherwise approved, ‘

Attached are copies of a press statement made by Mr. Hunt in early
February 1975 in Florida, in which he denies the allegations made by

Dick Gregory and others with respect to his involvement in the assassi-
nation of President Kennedy and a letter written to Mr. Hunt by the former

family maid, Mary Traynor.

Lisa Hunt confirms her father's account that he was at home with the
family in the afternoon and evening of November 22, 1963. She recalls
that her father assembled the family in front of the television set. He
wanted them all to watch the program because it was an important
historical matter. They were all shocked about the assassination of

the President,

*?
xq
©
+3
©
i]
o
as]
oy
Px
wm
o
=
fc]
x
tt
a
ty
g
tb
bed
id
:
<

ce: D. Belin
Senior Counsels

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32204752 Page 7
 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

The headquarters for the DOD was at 1717 H Street, N.W,, in
Washington, D, C,, and then later it was on Pennsylvania Avenue.

Hunt's assignment with DOD lasted until the spring of 1965.

During the period from January 1962 until 1965, he states that he never
traveled to Mexico or any other Latin American country. His first
trip to Mexico after 1961 was in 1970, when he traveled there for the
Mullen Company after his retirement from the CIA,

Hunt's Whereabouts on November 22, 1963

Hunt states that he had never been in Dallas until 1971, with a possible
exception of a change of planes on his way to Mexico with his family in
1960. He does not recall whether that change of planes took place in
Dallas or in Houston. In any event, he and his family never left the

airport on that occasion.

He has never had any contact, directly or indirectly, with Lee Harvey
Oswald, Jack Ruby or anyone else thought to have been associated with
the assassination of the President.

He was never in New Orleans in 1963 and has never had anything whatever
to do with the Fair Play for Cuba Gommittee, which he identifies as a

communist organization.

During the period from January 1962 to 1965, he traveled once or twice
per year to India, two or three times per year to Paris, once or twice
per year to London, and, during that period, he traveled two or three
times to Rome. His only domestic travel in 1963 was between Washington
and New York. All travel, whether domestic or international, was in his

AMWaGIT Gdod “a GTwaaD AHL ROUT XdOD0L0Ha

own name.

Hunt states that in 1961 he used the pseudonym of Edward J, Hamilton in
connection with his work on the Cuban project in Florida. With the
exception of that pseudonym and the pseudonym he used on the identifi-
cation papers provided him for the Ellsberg break in, he has never used

a pseudonym.

 

SECRET/SENSITIVE.

 

HW 50955 Docld:32204752 Page 5
 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

On November 22, 1963, he and his wife were driving on H Street at about
9th in Washington, D, C,, when he turned the car radio on and learned
that the President had been shot. He and Mrs. Hunt had been shopping
in a Chinese grocery store in that immediate vicinity, immediately prior
to their getting into the car. The Hunts lived at 5215 Balton Road,
Sumner, Maryland. On their way home they drove to the Sidwell Friends
school on upper Wisconsin Avenue and picked up their younger daughter,
Kevan. Kevan told them that Robert and Courtenay Kennedy, children of
Attorney General Robert Kennedy, were students in the same school and
had been picked up by the Secret Service. The children in the school
knew that the President had been shot. ,

Mr. Hunt states that the following persons are witnesses to the fact that
he was here in Washington, D, C., at the time the President was shot

in Dallas:

S FHL WOWd AdOOOLOHA

  

1. His son, Howard St. John Hunt, then ten years of age. “4
2. His daughter, Lisa, then twelve years of age.

3. His daughter, Kevan, then eleven years of age.
4. The family maid, Mary Trayner, now employed by a family

living at 4806 DeRussey Parkway, Chevy Chase, Maryland,
and whose phone number is 652-2930.

3
6
2
5
i
<

Mr. Hunt believes that he was either taking the day off from work as

a part of annual leave on November 22, 1963, or he may have been
recuperating from a hospitalization for ulcers. He had been hospitalized
at about that period at Sibley Hospital in Washington, D. C. :

Mr. Hunt states that he held the following oil company charge account

and credit cards in 1963 and that such accounts may provide corroboration
as to his presence in Washington, D. C,, on November 22, 1963: °

Esso Oil, Gulf Oil, Texaco Oil, Cities Service Oil, Brooks Brothers
(New York), Garfinkle's, Woodward and Lothrop, Sears Roebuck & Co.,
Hecht Co. He also states that telephone records might be checked with

™ SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

HW 50955 DoclId: 32204752 Page 6
  

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES |
Washington, DC 20500 ,

David W. Belin,

Neison A. Rockefeller,
Executive Director

Chairman
John T. Connor
C. Douglas Ditton March 6, 1975
Erwin N. Griswold
Lane Kirkland
Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronaid Reagan 178-10002-10363

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.
SECRET /SENSITIVE

MEMORANDUM TO: File ewW
Robert Olsen “ .

7" OM:

SUBJECT: Interview of March 4, 1975, with E. Howard Hunt
and his Daughter, Lisa Hunt

’ The interview commenced at approximately 4:00 PM and was conducted

at 712 Jackson Place. : ree

BS ;
Mr. Hunt is presently residing at 1245 N. E, 82th Street, Miami, Florida -
33138. He has a silent telephone number of 305 758-6159.

Lisa Hunt resides at 3406 Nimitz Road, Apt. A-2, Kensington, Maryland
20795, She has an unlisted telephone number which she declined to —
give us. She was born on March 9, 1951.

The interview concerned allegations that Mr. Hunt was involved in the
assassination of'President John Kennedy and other public figures. He
is aware of the public statements made by Dick Gregory and Ralph
Schoenman in early February 1975 relative to his being involved in the
assassination of President Kennedy. He states that most of the infor-
“mation that Mr. Gregory and Mr. Schoenman referred to is drawn from
a book by Tad Szulc entitled, E, Howard Hunt, the Compulsive Spy.
Hunt states that the book is saturated with errors. One of those errors
is the claim that Hunt was Chief of Station in Mexico City in the fall of

1963.
SOR
at)
>
oh

as]
mm
Q
cel
©
Q
©
A]
asd
be
bs]
.@)
i
he]
in
ty
~
2]
g
te
Ll
wy
e
*

   

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

HW 50955 DociId: 32204752 Page 2
178-10002-10363

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :

» RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System
identification Form

Agency Information

ROCKCOM
178- 10002-10363

OLSEN-ROETHE FILES

O-R (I-AA) HUNT, E. HOWARD INTERVIEWED 3/4/75

Document Information

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
OLSEN, ROBERT
FILE

Date:

8/27/201

 

INTERVIEW 3/4/75 WITH E.HOWARD HUNT AND HIS DAUGHTER, LISA HUNT

03/06/1975
6

CUBAN EXILES

CONSPIRACY THEORIES, THREE TRAMPS
CONSPIRACY THEORIES, CIA INVOLVEMENT
BOOK, E. HOWARD HUNT--THE COMPULSIVE SPY

NIXON, RICHARD
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
EISENHOWER, DWIGHT D.
HUNT, E. HOWARD

BAY OF PIGS

MEMORANDUM

Redact
07/10/1993

 

v9.1

HY 50955 Docld:32204752 Page 1

96
 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

The Bay of Pigs Background

Hunt states that in 1960 he was assigned to the job of organizing a
"government in exile!' for Cuba’among Cuban exiles in Florida. The

plan adopted by the National Security Council under President Eisenhower
called for the formation and training of a brigade of Cuban exiles who
would invade Cuba, establish a provisional government, receive recog-
nition by the United States and overthrow the Castro government. The
brigade had its own air force and was otherwise fully equipped by the
United States Government. The operation, however, was not supposed
to be one involving United States Government participation. The venture
was to involve training and launching from outside the United States.

In connection with his political activity and the organization of the

government in exile, Hunt went to Mexico in 1960. Shortly thereafter
the Mexican government demanded that they leave and he returned to
the United States. Richard Nixon, then Vice President, was working

closely with the CIA on the project.

When President Kennedy was elected in November 1960, he was briefed
on the project and confirmed the plans, including the plan to provide air
cover to the invading Cuban force. In early 1961, however, the Kennedy
administration decided that the political organization of the Cuban
government in exile would have to be broadened so as to include all
elements of the Cuban society. Even radical leftwingers were to be
included. Hunt was assigned the job of convincing the leaders of the
Cuban community to accept such a broadening of the political structure
of the government in exile. Hunt found this to be an impossible job to
accomplish because the Cubans recruited to make up the invasion force
had been promised that the government in exile would be solidly anti-
Castro and anti-communist. Hunt asked to be relieved of his assignment
because he thought it was an impossible one to achieve and he returned
to Washington to work on propaganda and similar non-political aspects
of the forthcoming invasion.

AUVdGIT Guor -y GTWUaD SHL WONT AdOD0LOHA

Within twenty-four hours prior to the time that the Cuban brigade was
to hit the beaches at the Bay of Pigs, President Kennedy made two
critical decisions that affected the final outcome: he cancelled plans

SECRET/SENSITIVE

 

HW 50955 Docld:32204752 Page 3
 

SECRET/SENSITIVE

for an airstrike on Cuba which would have destroyed the six remaining
combat planes that were available to Castro; second, the order that
there be no air cover for the invading brigade. The result was that
the invading force was chopped up while it was still in the water; the
‘ ships carrying the armored vehicles were sunk, as were the supply
ships, and the troops were left abandoned on the shore. The remnant
of the Cuban Air Force was entirely adequate to demolish the invasion

fleet.

Hunt concedes that he was bitter about the decisions made by President
Kennedy, but he primarily blames Arthur: Schlesinger, Adlai Stevenson
and Robert Kennedy for advising the President to follow the course he
chose. He particularly feels that the Gabans had been recruited with
certain promises and that those promises were withdrawn at the last
minute. Hunt says, in fact, that the decision not to make the airstrike
and not to provide air cover was made after the invasion fleet had arrived
at the point of no return, i.e., when radio communication to the invasion
fleet had already terminated for security reasons.

After the Bay of Pigs disaster, Hunt worked with Allen Dulles until early
1962 at which time Dulles was replaced as DCI, In January 1962, Hunt

was assigned to the Domestic Operations Division of the Deputy Directorate
for Plans. He was involved in handling proprietaries based in the United
States, which have their impact abroad. His immediate superior was
Stanley Gaines, who was either Chief of Operations or Executive Officer

of the Domestic Operations Division and Tracy Barnes, who was Division
Chief of DOD (Barnes is a cousin by marriage to Vice President
Rockefeller. ) .

my
“
Q
Pel
2
OQ
a)
as)
La
Me}
bs]
ie)
<4
4
=
ty
a
2)
#
i
a
5
o<

The proprietaries which Hunt was engaged in managing | were Continental
288, which prepared news and radio broadcasts for foreign use;
/~Pacific Publishing Company of Bombay,/which was engaged in
publishing textbooks for Indian schools; the ‘Rome.Daily American; a
cover operation; and Fodor's Travel Guides, a proprietary which Hunt
questions as to whether it had any use. (Fodor's had been set up in
1946 as a cover operation but served no apparent use during the years
Hunt was with DOD,

  

 

' : SECRET/SENS ITIVE

 

HW 50955 Docld: 32204752 Page 4
