SECRET SENSITIVE

The Nosenko case goes to the guick of the
counterintelligence problem facing not only the FBI and the
Agency but all Western Intelligence and Security Services,
many of whom have received information derived from Nosenko.
It is evident that as presently organized, the
Intelligence Community is incapable of correlating intelli-
gence production with the product and analysis of counter-
intelligence information.

Given the inability of the Intelligence Community to come
to grips with the problems raised by counterintelligence, it
is suggested that the only solution to the very unsatisfactory
situation today would be the appointment of an ombundsman who
would be authorized to act directly on behalf of the
National Security Council on serious interagency problems which
have a direct bearing on the plans and capabilities of the
Communist Bloc and involve the more sensitive operations of
counterintelligence. Alternatively, consideration could be
given to the responsibilities of the Chairman of PFIAB, which
might be enlarged to satisfy this need. )

As Attachment A, I submit a letter and attachment which
was submitted to the Secretary of Defense -on 31 January 1975.
Given the march of events and the uncertainties involved, in
addition to the responsibilities of his high office, it is
understandable, perhaps, that the Secretary has not wished
to become entangled in disputations on this subject matter
as long as the Agency and its various Directors are being

subjected to investigation. Nevertheless, in our view, the

 

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld: 32112721 Page 9
SECRED SEUSTNE

issues involving Soviet strategic disinformation and our
defense posture go to the heart of national security inso-
far as they relate to estimates affecting the world balance
of power. Additionally, we believe it to be most misleading
for one to assume that estimates derived from technical col-
lection alone justify the negotiation Of finite disarmament
and other. treaties with the Soviet Bloc governments unless
there is corresponding high-level covert intelligence pro-
duction which supplements and confirms the findings of
technical collection.

This view argues against the philosophy now being aired
with Olympian aplomb that technical coverage alone is a
substitute for clandestine sources or that it gives a reliable
data base which justifies a super power to bargain away its

strength. (Attachment B sets forth the views of

Mr. Paul Nitze and his first-hand impression of the SALT
talks. Of particular interest is his description of the
atmospherics: [a] the peculiar role of the KGB among Soviet
negotiators, and [b] how an uninformed U.S. representation
learned from the Soviet delegation of changes in the U.S.
negotiating positions arrived at in Washington. The KGB
attempted similar ploys during the Johnson Administration
with a former high official of President Kennedy's on the
Vietnam issue.)

If there be validity to the information derived from

Golitsyn, then it would follow that detente and estimates

 

Photocopy
from
Geraid R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Dockld:32112771 Page 10
—OEGHED SENSITIVE
supporting the flimsy documentation on
Oswald handed over to the U.S. Government
by the USSR. This would also tend to disa-
vow any relationship between the USSR and
Cuba in clandestine activity.

2. Penetrations: With one or more
exceptions, he stated that there were no
penetrations of the U.S. Government. This
assertion flew in the face of the overview
which Golitsyn gave to us regarding Soviet
Bloc penetration of Western services and
strategic deception.

3. Order of Battle of the KGB at Home

 

 

and Abroad: There are many instances where

Nosenko's information contradicts Golitsyn's.
We have concluded on the basis of present evidence that
Nosenko was dispatched to the West to mutilate the counter-
intelligence leads which had been revealed by Golitsyn.
As to his observations regarding Oswald, it was the Soviets
who have pushed the deception theme to the effect that
Oswald was an instrument of the military - industrial com-
plex of the eastern United States. This thought was first
raised by Khrushchev in Cairo in an unusual interview which
he had with an American journalist. It has since been pur-
sued by the Soviets through various channels, mainly KGB,-

and it is now common currency in Soviet newspapers and other

media.

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page @
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| | Nosenko's information revolves

around the following subject matters:

1. President Kennedy's Assassination:
Nosenko's story is that while he was in the
KGB's internal intelligence, he read the case
file on Oswald. Given the timing of his de-
fection, shortly after the assassination, his
account - not borne out by the initial poly-
graph - may be viewed as exonerating the

Soviets of any complicity with Oswald, thus

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 7

 
and we have concluded that ad hoc arrangements are inadequate
for satisfying those who have a need for the counterintelli-
gence end-product. As to the recipients, they should include
selected officials who are involved in the estimating process
as well as policy makers up to the Cabinet level. This has’
not. been the case in the past, and as a result of this void,
there has existed a conflict of views at both the policy and
estimating levels regarding intentions, capabilities and the
peculiar political dynamics of the Soviet Bloc. Experience
would indicate that the basis differences in interpretation
and evaluation are seemingly unbridgeable. What is required
as soon as possible is an authoritative forum with access to
all-source information in which differences may be joined and
adjudicated.

We believe that the result would give the guidelines
and targets for political action follow-up and would have a
significant impact on interdepartmental policies which are
not unrelated to the Soviet Bloc realities which we have un-
covered in counterintelligence.

Specifically, reference is made to cases which involve
a determination regarding the bona fides of Soviet defectors
and Bloc sources whose positive information is given. the
broadest dissemination even though the source is suspect.
From the beginning it has been defectors who have given us
the most vivid appreciation of the clandestine activities of

the Soviet Bloc. It is through defectors that one gains

 

Photocopy
from
Gerald R, Ford Linary

HY 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 5
SECRET SENSIESE

knowledge regarding the identities and use of penetration
agents and agents of influence who are, in turn, the kingpins
of Soviet strategic deception.
An example of recent vintage which illustrates the

range of confusion is Mr. McCone'’s response on television to

a question that certain information was not turned over to
the Warren Commission because the source was the KGB defector,
Nosenko, whose bona fides at the time were not fully estab-
lished. After having asserted that much effort always is devoted
to the problems of bona fides, Mr. McCone related that he had
been informed that the Agency's position now regarding Nosenko,
as a result of a painstaking examination, was that he is
bonafide. Astounded by this statement, the undersigned called
the Agency officer who was the former executive assistant to
Mr. McCone for clarification. He opined that Mr. MeCone

could not remember everything but that he would look into the
matter. As of this writing there has been complete silence

as to the identity of the Agency's spokesman.

To understand the significance of this anonymous bestowal

of bona fides requires some further explanation of the Nosenko
"case. Several thousand man-hours have been expended in inter-

viewing Nosenko and analyzing his information. While there

 

were those somewhat removed from the case who/|

 

 

 

 

 

 

the then

 

 

SECRET SENSITIVE Phy

Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 6
| SECRET SENSITIVE

178-10004-10115

REPORT TO THE PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION ON
CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Mr. Vice President and Members of the Commission:

In accordance with the Commission's request, my
former colleagues and myself submit herewith a critique
of the counterintelligence function in the Agency. We
welcome the Commission's interest in this matter because
it will be the first review of U.S. counterintelligence
at such a responsible level in Government. In any
event, it is urged that authoritative attention, beyond
the life of the Commission, be given to the scope and
role of counterintelligence in the Intelligence Community.
This action is imperative because the current leadership is
almost totally uninformed and inexperienced in the specialty
of counterintelligence, and its authority for changes is being
permitted to go unchallenged. The result is reflected in the

failure to maintain continuity in this function. We believe

 

 
  
 

  

2
$ su, @) {3}

    

Pretocrpy a - AUTOMASICALLY DEC ZD ON,
Gerald R. Ford Library ; oS Date Impossible to ‘Detentine

 

 

 

unless imposible. insert Cate or event)
i

 

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 2?
1781000410115

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

CHENEY
178-10004-10115

GENERAL SUBJECT FILE

INTELLIGENCE--REPORT BY JAMES J. ANGLETON

427/201

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION ;

- RESTRICTIONS :

: CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA ;

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Document Information

CIA
ANGLETON, JAMES
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

REPORT TO PRES. COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE U.S.

00/00/1975

37

ANGLETON, JAMES
CONSPIRACY THEORIES, USSR
NOSENKO, YURI

OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

REPORT
Secret

1B; 4
Redact
08/09/1993

See pages 5-7. Does not include attachments.

 

 

vey
rvs

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 1
, OLURLE SENSIITE

that unless there are some enforceable guidelines set forth
by a higher authority, the conduct of effective counterin-
telligence by the Government will be lost for years to come.
Counterintelligence is traditionally a vital plate in
the shield of national security. It also protects the
security and well-being of our Allies who have access to our
sensitive intelligence by virtue of identity of interests or
because of formal arrangements and pacts such as NATO. There
are also useful -confidential interservice agreements whereby
certain foreign intelligence services conduct unilateral or
joint operations with our field stations, and the standard
of their security is of continuing concern. In lower key,
it is also in the interest of CIA to aid the security serv-
ices of the remaining non-Communist countries where any
friendly elements exist. )
Although we have been charged primarily with our view
on CIA counterintelligence as such, we have included, as
perspective requires, the security and counterintelligence
interrelationship of other agencies and departments. Unlike
the collection and evaluation of positive intelligence,
there has not been organized in Government, and particularly
in the Intelligence Community, any machinery to produce an
end-product which might be described to be national as dis-
tinguished from departmental counterintelligence. Very
little is logical regarding this subject, unless one views. the

historical framework of the function, in terms of the special,

MOITHIE Pho
SIE toe
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 3
OCbHEE SENSITIVE

if not privileged, position of the FBI who had dominated the
Intelligence Community as it relates to counterintelligence.
Director Hoover refused to submit his views or policies to
the scrutiny of the Intelligence Community where any problem
remotely impinged on the interests and/or jurisdiction of

the FBI. This unassailable stance estopped any and all at-
tempts to bring the Bureau to account in any interagency
board of equals charged with counterintelligence oversight,
including the very effective President's Foreign Intelligence
Board (PFIAB) who were thoroughly apprised of the facts,
given their continuity and authority within the Community.
What emerged was a loose ad_hoc liaison of third parties,

but never a meeting of chiefs with Mr. Hoover to-hammer out
basic issues relating to internal security and counterintelli-
gence. This was the state of affairs until the appointment
of Mr. Gray; counterintelligence as a function of Government -
with few exceptions - was frozen by Mr. Hoover. Mr. Gray's
tenure was marred by the turbulence of Watergate, and it was
only with the appointment of Mr. Kelley that a new era opened
up. Unfortunately, nothing of consequence has been tabled .
with Mr. Kelley on the outstanding issues.

Unlike the producers of positive intelligence, those
engaged in counterintelligence are the primary consumers of
their own product, and the counterintelligence product is less
perishable than that of positive intelligence. We have at-
tempted to remedy this omission over the years on an ad hoc

basis by distilling intelligence from counterintelligence operations,

 

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 50955 Docld:32112721 Page 4
