, 4 er Ce: Ae ae ee ee
- Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

oor . .
other employees of ene ano would come by the

office and engage in informal conversations regarding
politics and their work.

Wilcott told the Committee that on the day after President
Kennedy's assassination. he was informed by a CIA case

officer that Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent. Wilcott

assigned a cryptonym and that Wilcott himself had
unknowingly disbursed payments for Oswald's project using
that cryptonym. Although Wilcott was unable to identify the
specific case officers who had initially informed him of

Oswald's Agency relationship, he named several employees

  

with whom he believed he had subsequently

ara

discussed the allegations.

Wilcott advised the Committee that after learning

Classification:

further testified that he was told that Oswald had been f

\ Classified by derivation:

, ef ff ae

 

 
4 LT LY LF LF LF LY LF  ~

Classification: |

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

of the alleged Oswald connection to the CIA, he never

=

rechecked the ; disbursement records for

ibe sad
evidence of the Oswald project. He explained that this was
because at that time he viewed the information as mere shop
talk and gave it little credence. Neither did he report

the allegations to any formal investigative bodies following

the assassination as he considered the information to be hearsay.

 

In an attempt to investigate Wilcott's allegations
concerning Lee Harvey Oswald's relationship with the CIA, the
Committee interviewed several present and former CIA
employees who were selected on the basis of the position each

had held with the CIA during the years 1954-1964. Among

covered a broad spectrum of areas within of

during this period, including the chief and deputy chief of

a ee Ne Ne a a i NS

Classification:

  

| Classified by de ion:

6 those persons interviewed were individuals whose responsibilities
.
 

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

13

2. CIA Personnel in| ; -

The Committee investigated the allegation of former
CIA employee James Wilcott, who testified in executive
session that shortly after the assassination of President

Kennedy he was advised by fellow employees at the CIA's

e
pfs
aS

no “oy
“Tokyo Stationithat Lee Harvey Oswald was a CIA agent who

L.. .

had received financial disbursements under an assigned
cryptonym. Wilcott explained that he had been employed
by the CIA as a finance officer from 1957 until his resignetion

from the Agency in 1966. In this capacity, he served as a
oy

ra An

fiscal account assistant on the support staff at{

4 se

[from June of 1960 to June 1964. Wilcott advised

that, in addition to his regular responsibilities, he had
served security duty on his off-hours,in order to supplement

his income. This additional job put him in contact with

Classification: (i) Con

Classified by derivation:

aT Tee w.

 

rr
Ae EF SF SF EF LF < <a <a *

Classification:

 

7

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

   

Soviet Russia division's American Legal Traveler program,
which utilized Americans traveling in the Soviet Union

as a means of obtaining information and identifying

possible subjects for recruitment, informed the Committee
that they met with each person involved in this activity

and that Oswald was not one of them. These Agency officials

also advised the Committee that only “clean-cut" college

 

not meet this criteria. Finally, the Agency officers in
charge of the Soviet Russia division's research section

in support of clandestine activities indicated that, had
Oswald been contacted by the Agency, their section would
probably have been informed, but that this, in fact, never

occurred.

Classification:

 

_ CARB De DB DBD DB Aa TX =F,

| Classified by derivation:

Jj graduates were used in this program, and that Oswald did

     

eee ee ew a

 
PE EP OP AS EP OS <a ep *

Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE

1. CIA Personnel in the Soviet Russia Division

 

t
In addition to obtaining testimony from former
directors John H. McCone and Richard M. Helms, the

Committee interviewed individuals who were chiefs of the

 

CIA's soviet Russia division during 1959-1963.* These
individuals categorically denied that Oswald had ever
the Committee interviewed
To investigate this matter further, /the persons who
had been chiefs and/or deputy chiefs during 1959-62 of the
three units within the Soviet Russia division which were

responsible respectively for clandestine activities,

 

*The chief(s) of the Soviet Russia division from August 1962
to September 1963 was not interviewed by the Committee.

 

Classification:

been associated in any capacity with the CIA. f

| Classified by derivation:

” se ee ee ae

 
Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

     

American legal travelers, and research in support of

 

clandestine activities.* The heads of the clandestine
that
activity section stated during this period/the CIA had

very few operatives in the Soviet Union and that Oswald

was not one of them. Moreover, they stated that because of

Agency's standards for use in the field.** The heads of the

*The American Legal Travelers unit used carefully selected

  

American citizens traveling in the Soviet Union to assess the f

potential use of Soviet officials they had met for future .

intelligence work on behalf of the United States. For this

unit, only the years 1959-61 were covered. However, 5

since every American legal traveler who was involved in this

Program was recruited before Oswald's trip to the Soviet Union,

the relevant year for Lee Harvey Oswald was 1959 because that

is when he departed from the United States. 6
&

**One officer acknowledges the remote possibility that an
individual could have been run by someone as part of a “vest
pocket" operation without other Agency officials knowing
about it, but even this possibility, as it applies to Oswald,
was negated by the statement of the deputy chief of the Soviet
Russia clandestine activities section who commented that in 1963
he was involved in a review of every clandestine operation ever
run in the Soviet Union, and that OsWald was not involved
in any of these cases.

Classification:

 

 

| Classified by derivation:

§ his obvious instability, Oswald would never have met the

ee ee ee ae
ES” ES a

Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

further efforts by the Warren Commission to investigate
this matter.

The Committee sought to resolve the issue of Oswald's
alleged association with the CIA by conducting an inquiry
that went beyond the threshold level of obtaining statements
from two of the Agency's most senior officials. Instead,

a more analytical investigative approach was utilized.
First, an effort was made to identify circumstances either
in Oswald's life or in the manner in which his case was
handled by the CIA which were potentially suggestive of an
intelligence association of some kind. Then, an intensive
file review was undertaken which included both the CIA's
144-volume Oswald file and hundreds of others from the CIA,

as well as the FBI, State Department, and the Department of

a

Defense. _/ Based upon these file reviews, a series of

Classification:

 

— —_ 2 GA “h Gai Gh Ga VA = “ Wa.

| Classified by derivation:

 
[01014240413 . ee =

_ Classification:.

(This form is to be used. for material orvoces ORO FE é

from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

 

Lee Harvey Oswald Was Not Associated As An Agent Or In Other
. Capacity With The CIA :

In 1964, the cra advised the Warren Commission that g

 

 

oe c

Harvey Oswald. Testifying before the Commission, John yt

Y
A. McCone, who-was then Director of Central Intelligence, ¢

indicated that Oswald "was not an agent, employee, or g

informant of the Central Intelligence Agency. The Agency :

never contacted him, interviewed him, talked with him, or 6.
_ Solicited any reports or information from him, or communicated -_

with him directly or in any other manner...Oswald was never

associated or connected directly or indirectly in any way

g the Agency never had a relationship of any kind with Lee.

| Deputy Director for Plans and therefore the person directly

all CIA
responsible for/clandestine operations. _/ Once these

whatsoever with the Agency." — / McCone's testimony was f
corroborated by Richard M. Helms, then the Agency's

 

assurances had been received, / the record reflects no

RETURN TO CIA

—_———___—_____._ Background Use Cnty
Bo Not Reproduce

| Classified by derivation:

i
li94e10 443

Classification:

 
ES ES LS ££ AS AS <2 22 25!

Classification: |

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

interviews, depositions, and executive session hearings were

 

contacts with present and former CIA personnel covered a

. 6 conducted with both Agency and non-Agency witnesses. The

broad range of individuals, including staff and division

 

research analysts, secretaries, and clerical assistants.
In total, more than 125 persons, including at least 50

present and former CIA employees, were questioned

 

regarding this issue.
The results of this investigation confirmed the
Warren Commission testimony given by Messrs. McCone and

Helms. There was no indication in Oswald's CIA file

the Agency. Moreover, the Agency employees who would have

been in a position to know if Oswald had been associated

 

with the CIA uni y denied that he had been an agent
assi iicaTion:

 

 

chiefs, clandestine case officers, area desk officers, 6

| Classified by derivation:

, suggestive in any way that he had ever had any contact with

     
Classification:

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

or connected with the CIA in any other capacity. tf
Finally, taken in their entirety, the items of circumstantial
evidence that the Committee had selected for investigation
as possibly indicative of an intelligence association did

not support the allegation that Oswald had an intelligence

 

agency relationship of any kind.

This finding, however, must be qualified because the
same institutional characteristics, in terms of the Agency's
extreme compartmentalization and the complexity of its
enormous filing system, that are designed to preclude
penetration by foreign powers have the simultaneous effect
of making Congressional inquiry very difficult For example,
CIA personnel testified to the Committee that a review of

Agency files will not always indicate whether an individual

was affiliated with the Agency in any respect. Nor was

 

there always an independent means of verifying that all
Classification:

 

—=— GBH GA “Ga Gi “GA GA GA Wa Ga ZT GT.

 

| Classified by derivation: ______
