Classification:

  
  

(This form is to be used for material extracted cANASS,

from ClA—controlled documents.) pect
RELEF BSE

-g-

tion, Mann felt, added credibility to Alvarado's allegation.

 

Mann therefore suggested that Alvarado should be put at the.y

secant ee

 

eee ne, pnerstensren onstrates tne

p of fit Mexican President Mateos 'f disposal « with the condition “that

Duran be rearrested and confronted with ‘Alvarado. (CIA Doc
MEXI 7072, 11/26/63)"

On November 27, the CIA's Mexico City Station cabled

  

aeenerct

 
 

CIA headquarters ‘Mann's request that an FBI repre-

sentative be dispatched to Mexico City. “era Doc MEXI 7084,

11/27/63) The Mexico City Station reported in a second cable
WET Io.

Rubinstein case. (CIA Doc MEXI 7092)" As a result, the CIA's

Mexico City Chief of Station recommended that FBI dispatch a

representative to Mexico City unless the St

 

convince Mann that he was being briefed fully on all information
developed. (Ibid. )\/
As the record reflects, both the FBI and the CIA
metire pr elo’ met
were seriously concerned with Ambassador Mann' s interjection
ofhimself in#é the Mexico City investigation. On November

27th, the FBI liaison officer to the CIA, Sam Papich, spoke

 

 

 

with of the CIA's Counter-intelligence staff. ol

 

(CIA Doc, LHO Add'l Info File,| __|Memorandum, 11/27/63) ~NiL-

 

During the course of their conversation Papich and] |

e041 45? Classification:

on the 27th that "Mann feels not fully briefed on Oswald/ i

 

| Classified by derivation:

 

 
 

4 LF LE LP LS LE LE LP LF ~

Classification:

 

  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-~9- -
discussed Alvarado's allegations. It was Papich's opinion
that "the Ambassador down there wantd nuts" in his efforts
to determine if the Cubans had conspired to assassinate

President Kennedy. Papich commented further that, "It would

 

 

 

be premature to move so quickly on that angle."

 

responded, "It might have been alright if we knew we would
find other confirming stuff." (Ibid. ) ~W.L-y eo ,
Thus, by November 27th signs of conflict with respect

to U.S. investigative policies in Mexico City had surfaced.

gation and Ambassador Mann's role in the matter were all at.
issue.
Boel Pest
The record #so reflects that by November 27th,
Alvardo's allegation was being thoroughly scrutinized by
American authorities in Mexico City. Alvarado was undergoing
a detailed reinterrogation conducted by CIA representatives
wh ott
at a.CIA safenouse cra Bee MEXI 7093, 11/27/63) During
the course of the reinterrogation Alvarado was shown photo-
graphs of Cuban Consulate personnel from which he identified
ores

Luisa Calderon as the “Ran whoshe claimed had embraced Oswald

inside the Cuban Consulate on September 18. (CIA Doc. MEXI™

 

7098, 11/27/63) Alvarado also was able to identify Oscar

Classification:

U.S. responsibility for Alvarado, investigation of his alle- (

 

| Classified by derivation: _.

 
 
   
Classification:

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

recorded that:

when Mann heard of Alvarado's detailed account
of payoff, he requested FBI representatives be
sent from FBI headquarters to take charge of
investigation in Mexico. Request referred to
Bureau by Legat, Mexico City and State Depart-
ment. On 11/26/63 it was decided that FBI super-
visor Laurence P. Keenan should promptly depart
for Mexico City to assist in this investigation.
Mann was tactfully told that while FBI was dis-
posed to send Keenan FBI was not assuming State
or CIA responsibilities and could only offer ad-

vice on policy matters concerning those Agencies.*
(FBI file 105-82555-656, 12/3/63( Emphasis added) -

 

4
+e lophecd.
tion had intercepted, taped and transcribed a*conversation

between the Cuban President Dorticos, in Havana, and the
ped Phe
Ee as
Cuban Ambassador Armas, in Mexico City. During the course

of the Dorticos-Armas conversation, Dorticos twice inquired

whether Silvia Duran, during her interrogation by Mexican

authorities, had been asked whether the Cubans had offered

Oswald money. Armas twice replied that the Mexicans had asked

/
no such question. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7068, 11/26/63) This informa-
* In response to Ambassador Mann's request, the State Depart-
‘ ment informed Mann that J. Edgar Hoover believed the FBI

Legat in Mexico City, Clarke Anderson, was fully aware of
all information then available pertaining to the assassina-
tion. However, if Anderson believed he required additional

assistance, Anderson should so inform FBI headquarters.
(State Dept. Cable 958, 11/26/63)\/"

In addition,on November 26 the CIA Mexico City Sta- :

| Classified by derivation:
Classification:

  
  
   
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
     
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-6-

‘ vl

the U.S. Embassy several times to report the caer ice:

Fy LTb a

alleged he overheard while at the Cuban Consulate! Si yarado «~
told the American authorities that he had used aA “alias,

Jorge Kynaut, when he placed these calls to the Embassy.

Alvarado alleged that after his repeated_ phone calls _to

ip aoe
the Embassy with no po itive response from the Embassy per- ‘
nen ene ae

nee

 

sonne? he was finally cold¥to cee wasting ‘our time. We
Tbe ch
are working here, not. playing." (CIA out teletype no. 85099,

11/29/63) — Nobu

As cited above, Alvarado contended that he recognized
asthe ran he Aad BREE mites rid ban Ed, feeeo we A Eka Ben, Lop AG clad eg,

Oswald* from press photographs generally available after the
yaa beer redo Carevbe, mt eo we
assassination. As a result; “Alwaedies recontacted the Ameri-

can Embassy on November 25. (CIA Doc. MEXI 7069, 11/26/63) Ls

the American Embassy bya CIA representative and an Embassy
oN Lee FoGT, 41 [Re fF o B

security officer.’ As a follow-up to Alvarado's initial

    

interrogation, CIA's Mexico “City Station requested UIE
headquarter"s traces on Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte.v
Ambassador Mant reacted with great concern to Alvarado's
“allegation. He requested that an FBI officer thoroughly
knowledgeable about all aspects of the assassination investi-_
gation be sent to Mexico City to brief him and help direct
the investigation. (MEXI 1182, 11/25/63) An FBI memorandum
Classification:

| Classified by derivation:

On the morning of November 26 Alvarado was questioned at 6
— «Fa Classification: |

‘ rb
/. (This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)

  

to Cuba, he observed approximately eight persons enter
the ane ote Eusebio Azcue, the Cuban Consul in Mexico

cityT fr .
bo gagete ALU A CHceho
een oh OS

However, Azcue was not in his office but rather a

Plord,
ivarado reported that after observing this man he

1 &

Cuban ba nok known to Alvarado was seated behind Azcue's
desk:

¢
( needea a bathroom which he reached by walking through a
“ eR Bk ; :
passageway onto a patio. At the patio, Alvarado, stated
eae by id
he observed three men grouped together. ‘tine man was a

tall, thin, red-haired Negro, with prominent cheek~bones., we;

displaying a scar on the lower right gide of his chin’. This -
tae

man spoke with a Cuban accent 4 a he second man was described

by Alvarado as Caucasion, with green eyes and blond hair-
Pe RE
cut inapompadour style.’ Alvarado added that he had pre-

viously observed this man dis paying, @ Canadian passport in
mo - bid?

 

The third man was dressed ina

pp aos
an. open collar shirt! He
be

: { a.
also wore clear eyeglasses. Kivarado contended, phate
Es

en

the Consulate. waiting room| i!

 

black sportcoat, white pants an

  

‘recognized this third man as Lee Harvey oswald'(€o1 lowing

the assassination and after publication of Oswald's photo-

graph)

Alvarado alleged that while situated on the patio,

 

 

Hea Classification:

 

| Classified by derivation:

I ee ee ee a A

   

 

—_ Gh -OU™.ClUCCO.C( C !.lUlUCUECC.DlUC ERC CE.lCUC XECUCUE.
Classification: _

 

  
     
   

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-~-5-

he observed the Cuban who had been seated at Azcue"s desk,

Pare
approach the red-haired Negro and hand him a sum of money #47
Alvarado reported that the following exchange then transpired
between Oswald and the red-haired Negro:

Negro: (in English) I want to kill the man.

Oswald: Youre not man enough. I can do it.

Negro: (in Spanish) I can't go with you. I have a lot
to do.

Sa GA “SAE EE

Oswald: The people are waiting for me back there.

\f (CIA Doc. MEXI 7069, 11/26/63)

a

el osewlt Na
ver bol be yee wie
Alvarado alleged that following the abeve exchange“he vw bay

observed the red-haired Nege hand oswa1dz$e500 in U.S. cur-
rency:and 200 pesos, fnivardo stated he then saw a femaie .
employee of the cuban Consulate embrace Oswald and give him
her address. eee according to Alvarado, while standing
outside the Consulate, he saw, Oswald and his two companions
leave the Consulate and enter an automobile. (Ibid.) ue

The CNS MOS GE SREY RESET, Nptaee > eS
tion. It noted in its cable to CIA headquarters that Alvarado

claimed he had, at the end of September 1963, telephoned

* Alvarado stated that he did not see the Cuban man again after
Sept. 18.

Classification:

=a GT “YVR SES SR EA.

| Classified by derivation:

'
‘Classification: .

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-2-

City on November 27 to assist in that aspect of the FBI

Chace.
investigation testifying before the Senate Committee noted

that:

he "knows of no investigation in

Mexico to determine if there was a

Cuban involvement in the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy" other

than disproving the "D" allegation.
V (SSC, Book V, p. 42.)

Ambassador Mann was questioned about "D" during his

interview with this Committee. "D", whos
Alvarado Ugarte, had On” November 963 alleged that Oswald
dé ost a 3 tense neenemnnnmenancrer tn “ Wépige City
ndthrebeslven 09 from Cuban officials” 66 assassinate Presi-
ade NPS
dent Kennedy.’ Yo. S. and Mexican authorities later determin het
Laas Cae cP RAM Be

Alyvarado's allegation to-have-been a fabrication. Mann

 

true name is Gilberto

  
  

 

asserted to the Committee that Alvarado's retraction of his

Oswald allegation had been tainted | by the interrogation methods
rie Lie CAT; Ph tid ef TM ANA DCE Pee OOF he
utilized by the Mexican authorities. Mann stated that Mexi- Pp
at a. feo Aaah. Gobet
can police procedures were ceexeive~and would’ have caused

Alvarado to adjust his statements in order to conform to the

“= aed

  
 
 
  

position which the Mexicans wanted him to adopt. ¢
Interview,.dyManny~pre2yedEK«Boer7 003966)

Because the Alvarado allegation stands as the only
specific substantive investigation by U.S. authorities in

Mexico City of possible Cuban complicity. in President Ken-

Classification:

_ “UR SS. SS Ss SO E.lUCMm@®™!]!.UlUCEE..lUCCCCCE!F.

| Classified by derivation:

 
 

 

 

Classification: !

(This form is to be used for material extracted CIA usrocaesran, §
from CIA—controlled documents.) RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN

Alvarado

On November 16, 1977 the Select Committee interviewed
Thomas C. Mann, the U.S: Ambassador to Mexico at the time
of President Kennedy's assassination. *« (HSCA Interview, T.
Mann, JFK Doc. 003966) The Mann interview was prompted by
the Committee's two-fold interest in Oswald's pre-assassination
. . yon
trip to Mexico City and the subsequent post-assassinatio# Cine ED

investigation of Oswald's activities in Mexico City by—the

ieee, Pye. wea pk Ee ee TE.

    

fet

CEA-and-PaI. Of mone. specific inserest.tothe.Comittee-was
learning from Ambasador Mann the extent of his efforts to
investigate Oswald's Mexico City activities; especially

whether Oswald had conspired with Castro Cubans to assassinate

a “2 {“A{ “TE WA.

President Kennedy. CEb is 7
During the course of the Mann interview, the Ambassador
indicated that he had received instructions from the State

Department to cease his efforts to confirm or, | ‘refute, rumors
aovees LO CTiz ana \ By
of Cuban*complicity in the aSsassination..-It was Mann's be-

lief that CIA and FBI representatives had received similar WA
7 ~ x
instructions from their respective directors. Lobis, BE! 4
‘ tar pad. SA Oot Commit to Ftd, Sat rn tes hel Ope eat Che wes eet
The Ghurch-Gommittee touched upon Mann's belief that Cacnrni titel

 
  

hg

U.S. authorities had foreclosed investigative efforts to

 

determine whether Castr Cubans were connected to the
Tas ? Beecsre? uP Your V3 5

‘An FBI supervisor who had traveled to Mexico

 

assassination

      
 

Classification:

aac io}
vas el ef Le 3F

| Classified by derivation:
i 4 a a a a a a a a

Classification: _

    
  

involving
gation of

of review

,
and State

November”

(This form is to be used for material extracted”
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

 

to make two critical determinations.

investigative diligence.

Pore)

Department. In addition to Mann's initial inter-

  
 

are po Bee ogee’ :
Yiegi be ae paar a

nedy's assas one thés

 

 

eae

f
wk

 

ee has endeavored

These are:

1) Whether the conduct of the FBI and CIA investi-
gation of Alvarado's allegation reflected Ambassa~
dor Mann's belief that efforts to investigate
possible involvement of the Castro Cubans in the
assassination ee orematurely terminated; .and

2) Whether the investigation by FBI and CIA of Alvarado's

allegations was subject to objective scrutiny and

In order to make these two determinations: the Committee

has reviewed the Alvarado files maintained by the FBI, CIA,

view, a second follow-up interview pertaining to Mexico City

wf Pann
aspects of the assassination was conducted by the Committee on .

CO sc meter yj me Of Tiana SEC bar

, 1978. Moreover, depositions and hearings
former CIA personnel concerned with the investi-

Alvarado have been conducted to complete the record

by this Committee.

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

  

~
Classification:

hh '

  

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

-4-
The Alvarado Allegation and the Possibility of Cuban Complicity

pee
in@& Assassination

 

 

‘On November 23, Ambassador Mann cabled the State De-
partment declaring:

circumstances already developed here

‘point to possibility that Oswald may have

, been Castro's agent. Mexicans are also
\ keenly aware of the possibility. (CIA Doc.
‘N MEXI 1180, 11/23/63) 7 Th
ef phe

Kye

The Ambassador's suspicions werd fueled two days later,

    

 

eoNovember 25, when Gilberto Alvarado Ugarte, a twenty-three
year old Nicaraguan national appeared at the American Embassy
in Mexico City. Alvarado reported to Embassy officials
that on September 18, 1963, he had witnessed a payment of

$6500 to Lee Harvey Oswald by a Cuban official in Mexico —.-

   

_—

City to assassinate President Kennedy.* “CIA Doc MEXI 7069, ™
11/26/63) Alvarado contended that, at noon on September 18,: -

while he was in the Cuban Consulate arranging .. his travel

* The CIA reported on November 26 that Alvarado:
"is a well-known Nicaraguan underground member who is
also a regular informant of the Nicaraguan security ser-
vice, an officer of which has provided this Agency with
his reports for over a year. We consider his reliability
to be questionable although he has not been wholly dis-
credited." (CIA out Teletype No. 85089, 1726703).

 

is.

=a. “A “a “A <= Qn Ya SS GT SE GE

Classified by derivation:

   
