PAGE SIX.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that. his monthly reports were
routinely dispatched to Headquarters.

Mr. Zambernardi said that he does not know if a photo.of
Oswald was ever taden in Mexico City and that no one has ever discussed
it with him. He does remember that he did make some blow-ups after
(right after) the assassination but that they were handled as routine
and he made no special note of them. He said that he often made
30 or 40 blowups a week.

Mr. Zambernardi said that the only way’ it was possible for
the photo operations to miss ten shots at Oswald was:
1) if he visited after dark;
2) his visits were on a Saturday or Sunday (He was not certain but thought

that there may have been Saturday morning coverage.);

3) if the case officer had given the agents the day he visited off; and
4) the impulse camera was not working.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that he believed.'that all the cameras
involved in surveillance of the Soviet compound were manual cameras.

Mr. Zambernardi said that Ann Goodpasture was definately
not the case officer for the Cuban photo operation. He was not sure
of who it was. When the name Robert Shaw was mentioned to him he said
that he could have been the CO but that he just was not sure. ‘

Mr. Zambernardi said that his psydonym was Gregory D. Parnuth.

 

HW 50955 DBocld:322363527 Page 7
‘ 00044

PAGE FOUR.

was. triggered by changes in light intensity. The spotting scope was
trained on a very narrow area of the door latch of the Cuban Consulate
entrance. The camera itself covered a much broader field than the
spotting scope. The camera was set up so as to make sure that a person
triggering the camera by passing between the spotting scope and its
target would be pictured from the waist up. Mr. Zambernardi stated
that the camera was finicky and that there was a lot of false triggering.
(pe Mr. Zambernardi stated that the operator serviced his own
pO cameras, and developed the film and made contact prints in the base.
\ Mr. Zambernardi stated that the objective of the operation
was to get identifiable photographs of all visitors to the compound.
Mr. Zambernardi stated that the operation was generally
es efficient.. He said that the impulse camera was usually reliable and
7 provided good daylight hour coverage with some minor interruptions
for weak batteries, etc. He said that the manual coverage was usually
good but that: one had to take into account human error when considering
the manual coverage. He pointed out that it was hard for a person to
maintain constant attention in such a sedentary job. Mr. Zambernardi
was sure that the impulse camera provided constant daylight coverage
because he set it up.
Mr. Zambernardi was never involved, to his knowledge, in
any of the wiretap operations. He does remember that he did do some
delivery work.: He remembers: that he did make deliveries to a Russian
translator but that this duty only lasted a couple of months. He said
that he never asked what he was delivering. He pointed out the

CIA's compartmentation of knowledge and said that if he had needed to

HW 50955 Bocld:32263527 PBage 5
—

009042
PAGE FIVE.
know someone would have told him and, otherwise, he just accepted that
it was none of his business. He does not recall anyone at the station
that used the name "Rudy".

Mr. Zambernardi said that he often printed photographs’ in his
lab in the Embassy.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that Winn Scott was satisfied with
the Cuban compound photographic surveillance.as far as he knows. Scott
never complained to him about it. Scott was meticulous and had a great
interest in technical operations.

Mr. Zambernardi said that Ann Goodpasture reviewed all of the
surveillance photographs and appeared to be Scott's "right Hand man"
in some respects bu not necessarily overall.

Mr. Zambernardi recognized the name Tom Keenan as being someone
who was in the station in Mexico but he said that he never worked with
him. He said. that the one thing he remembers is that Keenan was always
erasing tapes; that he had a machine in the Embassy for this purpose
and that Keenan was always doing it.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that the name. Lee Harvey Oswald did not
come to his attention prior to 22 November 1963.

He said that.it was not unusual, during the short time that
he worked delivering tapes to the Tarasoffs, that he would be requested
to deliver a message to the Tarasoffs to give priority to a particular:
tape.

Mr. Zambernardi said that he has no knowledge of the means of
coordination between the photo and wiretap bases but thinks that there

must have been some method of communication on the basis of logic.

HW 50955 Doocld:32263527 Page 6
 

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

000028

Name Robert Zambernardi Date __ 6/3/78 _ Time 11:00 am
Address Mexico... ' Place Hotel Maria Isabel, Mexico City

 

 

Interview:

Mr. Zambernardi was interviewed by HSCA Staff members Dan

   

Hardway, Gary Cornwell and Harold Leap. He was shown the CIA omnibus *

 

 

release Jetter and stated that he understood it to. release him from
any secrecy agreement that he may have signed during the course of his.
employment with the CIA.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that he was first assigned to Mexico
City in 1959 as-a technician with State Department cover. He stated that
during his tenure in Mexico City he worked inside the U.S. Embassy.
He worked as a general technician and was available to work on any
operation that had need of a technician. He did state that he worked’
in the Embassy as a photographic .lab technician. He retired in 1964
or, 1965 and his duties were the same through.the whole period that he
was in Mexico City.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that he was aware that the CIA station

photographic
was running/surveillance operations aimed at the Soviet and Cuban . S

7

diplomatic compounds in Mexico City. He said that he was directly

involved with the photographic surveillance of the Cuban compound and

that he had at least panimal contgct, indirectly, with the Soviet surveillance.

Interviewer Signature
‘ (more)

 

Typed Signature

 

dan hardway—

Date transcribed -

By:
HW 50955 DocId:32263527 Page 2 : Youll Porm #4-a
180-10110-10122

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/21/20
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER:  180-10110-10122
RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 152-JFK
Document Information

ORIGINATOR: -HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 06/03/1978
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
CIA, ADMINISTRATION
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Box 5.

 

v9.1

HW 50955 Docld:32263527 Page i
4 699029
PAGE TWO. :
Mr. Zambernardi. said that he had set up the surveillance cameras in
the photographic base which covered the Cuban compound. He was
only consulted once vegarding the Soviet compound surveillance.
He was not sure when this occured but at one time he took angles of
the front gate of the Soviet embassy.

Mr. Zambernardi said that for a short while after the..operation
was set up he had been responsible for liaison with the agents who
manned the base, a Cuban exile and his mother who actually lived in
the apartment. After the agents’ training was completed and the
base was running smoothly Zambernardi no longer had any responsibility
for picking up the production from the photo base. After this time
his only contact with the base concerned technical matters. He stated
that the liaison function would have been assumed by the case officer
who was responsible for the operation. His memory was vague about
who the case officer was but thought that it was either Jack LNU or
Tom Haslet.

Mr. Zambernardi said that the base tried to get full daylight
coverage of the target.but that it was very difficult to do so. He stated
that both. the Cuban exile, and the Cuban exile's mother, who manned the
base were trained to run the surveillance. He stated that at the incep-
tion of the operation that the agents covered the Embassy entrance with
a manually operated camera. He could not remember exactly what kind of
camera had been used but thought that it had been an Exacta or a Leica.
He stated that it would not contradict his memory if the camera was a
Pentax. The camera was set up on a tripod and was equiped with a balscope.

At this time the agents were trying to cover both gates with the emphasis

HW 50955 DBocld:322363527 Page 3
000040

PAGE THREE

on the Embassy gate. It was difficult to provide continuous coverage of
one gate, let alone two. In an attempt to cover both gates and to get
more complete coverage, an impulse camera was installed in the base.

The impulse camera was set up to cover the Consulate entrance. The
agents continued to cover the Embassy entrance with the manual camera.
Mr. Zambernardi was almost positive that the impulse camera was installed
six months after. the base was set up. He remembers this because he

set up the camera and was certain that it occured not too long after he
set up the base. Mr. Zambernardi could not remember whether the impulse
and manual cameras were in the same room but thought that they were in
seperate rooms. He was certain that they were in the same apartment.
The Cuban exile agent was trained in maintenance and basic servicing

of the impulse camera. Mr. Zambernardi said that we could accurately
ascertain the time that the impulse camera was installed by checking

the monthly reports that he routinely filed with headquarters.

Mr. Zambernardi stated that the agents who operated the manual
camera kept a log of people entering and leaving the Embassy. He said
that the impulse camera had a built in clock and the time was registered
on each picture taken. He said that each picture taken by this camera
had a clock pictured in one corner of the photograph and that this clock
depicted the time that the photograph was taken. This would be on each
negative: produced by the camera.

Mr. Zambernardi said that the time that the impulse camera was
installed could also be ascertained by checking the shipping manifests
which should still be on record. He said that the impulse camera oper-

ated from a triggering device attatched to a spotting scope. The camera

HW 50955 Docld:32263527 Page 4
