 

Lal ¢
iThis form is to be used for material extracted boy
from ClA—controlled documents.)

looking for a visa to. Odessa and was referred to the $So-

; Ve ~
viet. Consulate. at 10:37 a.m. a man called the Soviet
ue?
Consulate and asked for a visa to Odessa. He was told
te
to cali back at 11:00. At 1:25 p.m. a man called the
Saved En en 384 and was told #he Consul woul ugt wn

Comms between 4:00,and 5:00 p.m. that day.

  
 

White only the callers' requests for a visa to

 

Russia’ (Odessa) connect these calls to Oswald, the HSCA

believes that they do fit logically into a time sequence

 

created by what is known from testimon and(the electroni¢
Y Yi and (the ae

intercepts Jabout} his actions on that day. (the following

 

is a reasonable possible chronology of Oswald's actions

on 9/27/63 based on analysis of the available evidence.

 

Oswald probably arrived in Mexico around 10:00 a.m. on

es po)

September 27. {CiteWR.) By 10:30 Oswald had ‘time to

arrive at the Hotel del Comercio and to place a call to

 

my
the Soviet Military Attache. who referred him to the Consul.

4 : The military attache also gave the caller directions to

>
the Consulate!” Buring the 10:37 a.m. call to the Con-

: » Souve ra
sulate,the caller learned that he ‘coula ‘contact the,Consul
, pane adiseted 4he

at 11:00 a. mss This done; Oswald then wemt—tothe Cuban

 

 

Spt s wet FE Sivied ei™,
4 Consulate,where he arrived around 11:00 a.m, tHSCA-Diitery By
aq 7 yy,
3 . : . : 4 a 5 EZ
: . ; - s , -) SK
. : . . . oo LG
This meeting fonly\lasted approximately fifteen minutes. m

af . .
oy L

ication:

  
   

 

 

Classified by derivation:

SOT AEE

   

LOSE

   
      

 

ClassificaHon: _ . \

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—centroiled documents.)

(Putte Eestimony—of Alivede Mirabet pine; 9/8/78; pr-119. )
wes TRL Sono
ea Saab Oswal@’to obtain photographs and to the Russian

. yet
Embassy to get the necessary Russian visa. (HSCA-Hiiter-

 

 

 

vi ilyvi 7 3 68I7p- +)
Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate around 1:00 p.m, (2°

ee ee At_this point,b4é had his encounter with
wo cae) Ard
Azcue, ay Completed Xhis vx application. {£bie,) Oswald

 

‘peobapty realized at this point that he would have preb-

 

: 1 Ripka Scatl eae gs
ems obtaining the visas. After this visit to the Cuban
\ Consulate, which lasted approximately fifteen minutes (+3
{ (puistic—testimeny-of Abfredo MIFabal Diaz;—9/28/78,—p--119)
iN Oswald tried to contact the Soviet Consul whom Oswald

j claimed had assured him that he would have no problems

7 ar -
obtaining a visa. (Gite) Hence, the 1:25 call! During”

  

this conversation Oswald learned that the Consul would
ule
be in that evening between 4:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. Os-

wald returned to the Cuban Consulate at 4:00 and persuaded\ c—
CAL

Silvia Duran the Soviet Consul on his
| vonare. ser interview of Sttvie Duran 6/6/##,—JEE Doe.

£04468;—pr737.) Hence, “the 4:05 and 4:26 p.m. calls in-
; , ay nn . a . .

 

 

volving Duran.!

 

But there is a problem with attributing the first

 

 

 

three calls on. September 27, 1963 to Oswald. The .conversa-

      
  

! Classified by derivetion:

 
 

 

4
a
3

‘caller was identified as Oswald. The problem with assum-
: 4oge .

 

 

 

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlied documents.) : . e

(ce)
caller spoke “terrible, hardly recognizable Russian.".

(@rtemeramseripe. ): On October 1, .1963, a man called

the Soviet Consulate and identified himself as "Lee Os-
“ytod .
wald." (€+te-teensextps.) This man also stated that he
: prok
had been at the Consulate on Saturday, the 28th. (brad 7)

The translator noted that this was the same man who had

called the Consulate "a day or so ago" and had spoken

jio3 *
in broken Russian. From this information, and possibly
u
ug

a voice comparison (see—Seetion,_Iiv;—B;y—abeve) the 9/28

1105

ing that the caller on 9/28 and 10/g was Oswald is that
Oswald spoke fluent Russian’ (Cites. ) Granted, Ms.
Duran's denial of the Saturday visit and the proficiency
of the caller's Russian is not ufficient evidence to
conclude that the person who visited the Cuban Consulate

on Saturday and who called the Soviet Consulate on Satur-

day and on October lst was an imposter. Yet the informa-

 

er etn

. tion is sufficient to (Sterorsty, question the assumption

that it was Oswald, especially in light of Azcue's and ‘Duraa's

 

 

 

alls
descriptions and Elena Garro de Paz's EOE
ENS LA — eee rb hf em’
Three calls that also occured early on September - =

0?
27, 1963, may have been made by an imposter. At approxi>

 

mately 10:30 a.m. a man called the Soviet Military Attache.

 

 

tld ! Ciassified by derivation: —

ee AOS ae AOI oP ine CE

 

ee

 
Twseet
Le weres the poss b hihy, bur does MoT Canotiele,

The Commibtizc ECO BO
Saar . 1

thetheo the Miss ima production Rror thy

Pulse Gamera ArmA the LELyRic basze has

Brpey Phi a todo with ths poss irilif-y thet

Somiomr im ereson ated Os uselaA imy Mexico,
   

ore

 

 

(This. form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.} e

un ntttiit
The, argu-

 

\ 7) ment between Azcue and the individual probably occured
\ . wey :

during this visit. (See Sections V, C, and VI, B, above.)

Ms. Duran stated that Oswald's third, and last visit,

occured in the late afternoon after working hours on the

$4
27? ear nate pADPR EBT.)
This visit is confirmed by (tne cIA' s)tap on the Soviet .- )

jefe.
Consulate. (Gee~sbexon).

— \

 

a Ip addition to the alleged Oswald visits to the Con-

sulates, there were other telephonic contacts that may

109f
have been between Oswald, or an imposter, and the Consulates.

¢ i ‘ u ’ ’ Ul Se

f7—~—]several details about Oswald's visits to the Cuban

 

Consulate, and telephonic contacts with both Consulates
wa wipes ewe y a

-tysteeete that the individual involved wes note Oswald.

   

siftfa p Duran's description of Oswald did not
1aG%
resemble Oswald's true physical appearance. 4H5¢2-—-Enter-

   
   
     
  
  
   

1f

ee poe. a .

 

i x ct See. 1 “efor tetaate. } This.

dgseription, which appeared early: ‘in, ‘the reporting of in- .

oR
roe
. ge

| poration obtained from. Ms. Duran, was ‘deleted from subse-
quent reports and was not at all mentioned, in the Warren

to
report (see Sections v, C, for details.) Eusebio Azcue's

description of Oswald was similar to Silvia Duran's, but

pee

 

 

; ified by derivation:

 

 

 

 

 
      

 

. 7 a devine ce
i oo,

NwECISSITICSTNIOM: __,
205

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlied documenis.}

fort

more détailed. (Avo wes@eésbes) Perhaps the most remarkable

thing about these descriptions is their similarity to

Elena Garra de Paz' description of one of Oswald's alleged

 

Another possible indication that an ‘imposter ,.as~7?*"/ alse

teh

Yyeldiets-eswrtl, visited the Consulate is the 9/28/6 inter- ‘
(e9C

cepted Joonversation= Silvia Duran adamantly denies that
Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate on Saturday, September
28, 1963." th light orf che cra intercept Jor that date,

Ms. Duran has either lied to the Committee, or the individual
who visited the Consulate on September 18 was not oswaia. “7*
(HOTS? the-Giils_clLasstficatror of-the—trenseript ofthis

Msv—Beralr wtti-the-trformation-}- Ms. Duran, in light of

  
  

the inconsistencies detailed in Sections Vv, C and VI, A
Fa above, may not be the most credible witness, but there are
: indications ‘that she was truthful when she stated that Os-
wald aid not visit the Consulate on “September. 28. The

; Ce September 28, .1963° conversation was Linked to. ‘Oswald be-

MM

a cause of the marginal notations made by the CIA translator

eis
on the transcript.  (tupetubiqesisereeaisinpSpmelengereriti ft itepwtnpe 1

 

abowe. ) The translator noted on the transcript that the

 

i Classified by derivation:

         
MDE

   

 

     

) og: :
ay Classification:
{This form is to be used for met extracted
from ClA—controlied documents.
. , pout é
after the publication of the Warren Report. (S26—506SbORS f
; a be
: pele ET nance ESTOS TERT SOE ELAS TS:) v
The Garro and Contreras allegations, in conjunction ¢
. . 4
with the weakening of Ms. Duran's story, raise three major, ; y

(1)
questions: @id Lee Harvey Oswald or an imposter visit the
2)
Cuban consulate in Mexico City?i other than his visits

oes

to the Cuban Consulate,. what were Lee Harvey Oswald's acti-

(2

vities in Mexico City?; and, was Lee Harvey Oswald travel-

 

ling alone in Mexico? %These ‘three, questions Gerpmreneoee sen

é. sty
overlap somewhat in detail Si otT ee, if Oswald was

not takfveling alone, did one of his companions impersonate
ee eles
him at the Cuban Consulate? “Rach of the three questions

ce

   
      
   
 

 

 

will be dealt with in separate sections below.»

ssion vat times

  

“slightly redunde is bgcause 4

 

Invan attenpt to answer the/Guestions, spesed—above

 

the House: Select Committee | ‘on Assassinations has: lyinter~.

; ; 1965" fot
/ viewed Mexican ‘ana Cuban citizens “who could have knowledge

 

of oswald’ ‘s “visits to the cuban consulates 2) rnterviched
ot- -
Mexican citizens: *vaho could have knowledge of Oswald’ s ac=

tivities and associations in Mexico city: 3) Conducted an

 

extensive review of the files of the central Intelligence

 

 

 

 

Classified by derivation:

aay AO

     

Sy

   
   
  

 

e0-10142-10167)

Classification: __ a .
2EF

(This form is to be used for materia! extrocted

 

fram ClA—controfled documents.)

‘VII. Analysis of Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico

, oy THIS COPY IS NOT
. A. Introduction . FOR RELEASE.

After the Warren Commission tavestigatben published

 

its report two very important allegations related to Lee

Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico city ‘nave-come to

the attention of the United States. investigative agencies.

In 1964, Elena Garro de Paz reported that she had seen Lee

Harvey Oswald, accompanied by two other men, at a party

at the home of eo Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of
Silvia puran,'*° (See~Geethorit =e. ) In 1967, Oscar Con-

treras Lartigue reported that he met Lee Harvey Oswald on

 

. . . . fool
the campus of the National Autonomous University cf Mexico.

 

(UNAM)
In addition, the testimony of the. Warren Commission's

Cl primary witness, related. to Mexico City, Silvia Tirado Duran,
oy cietendes Hecughat the fers. 002

: has ‘been’ called into question. (SeG_ Warren Report—pp._299-.

   

Some of the in termation thet 15 incansisteant with
As. Doran's original story m= hat Oswasd viseted the Coasulete

 

dt (Ay las available at the time of the Werren Commissions
“ae

Ate> in ter atten
TQuirgy at thevgh U4 alas vaneced, Sone of the in ”

has developed

 

1LE 2 -HOGGF ee
 

  

 

 

ewta cent evenet

   

 

 

nis form is to be used for material extracted
‘om ClA—cantrolied documents.) #

Agency and the Federal Bureau of Tavestigation that pertain . £€
1%

to Oswald's sojourn in Mexico City. CS

 

 

B. Did Lee Harvey Oswald or an Imposter. Contact

the Cuban and Soviet Consulates in Mexico City?

Lee Harvey Oswald himself probably visited the Cuban

Consulate at least once since his application for a Cuban

poeT
intransit visa bears his signature. (¢ite-teo-Handwriting
erdtys+s.) Though the Cuban Consulate allowed visa appli--

cants to take blank applications out of the Consulate to
Sit red Fae

be returned when completed, Silvia Duran. was certain that

ford

Oswald signed the application in her presence. (#SGA—Eater-.
: ea: x _
Veer Of STH BUr ally "66 4LE peed EK POGUE: 7

 

3a) Oswald's signature on the Cuban visa application,

however, does not by itself rule out the possibility

 

that someone impersonated Oswald in contacts with the

en ne, Oe

' Cuban and Soviet Embassies. ~~~"

    

“An analysis of. the telephone conversations (which

_the CIA's Mexico City Station intercepted by tapping the Thad |

 

‘Soviet Consulate and the Jtele~

 

 

 

phonejreveals that someone, ‘later identified as Oswald,

visited the Cuban Consulate at least two times and ° the
1972,

Soviet Consulate at least thre@s times. (See Geeterorrs ley / iv

 

 

 

Classified by derivation:

  
   

Ciassification:

263
(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

+55 kyo , .
eye would tend to indicate that Oswald, or someone _

impersonating him, visited the Cuban Consulate at least

 

one and possibly two additional times on September 27,
1963. Silvia Duran says that Oswald first visited the
Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 aun. requesting
an intransit: visa to Cuba with Russia as. the final de-

128%
stination. (¢ os Lewy 7 -)

 

 

"Ms. Duran sent Oswald to oppain photographs that he needed

for the visa application.” lett p20- 23. ) Eusebio

Azcue recalls that this visit probably occured on the
28S: ;
date on the visa application, 9/27/63. (Pobtre“testimony

-)

 

 
   

 

  
  

brtiva

a f also stated that Oswald “returned at ap-
. lo Lee . .
proximately 1:00 (Pa m. with ‘four photographs. {eeren—in>

  

Lo -Eusebio.

 

Azcue “also stated that the individual later identified

 

as oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate about.” 1:00 p- m.

with the photographs, probably on "the date that appears
se
on the application, ‘that is to say on the 27th." Rabie

 

 

Classified by derivation:

 

 

      
