 

 

 

 

i foo material extracted

    
 

(This form fs
t
'

rom Clae-cor ui documents.)

- 64 -

to denigrate the value of the information provided on
the unidentified alleged Cubana Airlines and unidenti-
fied passenger do not diminish the apparent negligence
of the agency in seriously pursuing the information as
it was.received. The CIA is not to be faulted for the
strength of its intelligence gathering, but rather

for the judgement which kept that intelligence from the
Warren Commission. (The Warren Commission was mandated
to pass on the strength of exactly that kind of informa-
tion.)

Depsite what is now know about the alleged delay
of the Cubana Airlines flight and the unidentified pas-
senger, the Warren Commission may have wanted to abrigate
suspicions which would remain, and satisfy itself that
these circumstances did not indicate foreign involvement
in the assassination. The CIA contributed to those
suspicions by not airing the matter and explaining the
circumstances which could shed light on otherwise sini-_
ster appearing events... ,

The Committee has documented instances where the

CIA decided to forego’ passing information to the Warren

 

Classified by darivation:

 

 

 

 

ad

 

 

 

 

 
4

 

 

form is ta bea used for material extracted

   

ClA-—contre

Commission out of a desire to not lay bare extremely
sensitive sources and methods of intelligence. The

(izz0vox and rxptre)operations fall within that category.

| Clossified by derivation:

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

(Ibid., p. 11) In addition, (cetephone tap operations
(uresvox) boainse the Cuban embassy provided transcripts
of conversations between the Cubana Airlines office (na

the Mexican Airport Control Office. J(Ibid., p. 11.)
the(irenvoy) transcripts recorded a series of dis-
cussions concerning the status of the November 22, 1963
delayed Cubana flight--when it arrived and when it de-
parted. The transcripts showed that the flight arrived
at the airport at 1620 hours (all times used will be
Mexico City time to avoid confusion) Mexico City time.
(HSCA Staff Review of November 22, 196A t1envoy trans-
eripts) Prior to the arrival of the aircraft, one per-
son stated that the aircraft was due at 1630 hours and
"it will go" at 1730, suggesting a quick turnaround that
would have reduced unloading and loading time, as well as
serving of aircraft to a relatively short period. (Ibid.)
However, the only key report on the departure of the air-
craft was a statement at 2040 hours that the aircraft
had departed for Cuba five minutes earlier, i.e., 2035
hours:..(Tbid.)
; ‘Based on. the above ((:1Bxvoy)was the only. record

that existed in the CIA files .on the arrival and departure

 

 

 
180-10142-10160 ; . : ene - fi it cee

, tt 8
rial extracted F- { 7

 

   

 
 
  

from ClA-—contre

- 60 -'

The Inspector General's report corrected the state-
ment in the Senate report that the "Central Intelligence
Agency had not information indicating that a following
investigation was conducted to determine that a follow-
ing investigation was conducted to determine the iden-
tity of the passenger and had no further information

,
on the passenger, and no explanation for why a following
investigation was not conducted." (The Investigation of
the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Perfor-
mance of the Intelligence Agencies, Book V, Select Com-
mittee to Study Governmental Operations, 4/23/76, p. 30,

Senate Report No. 94-755.) The Inspector General Report

FOR RELEASE.

stated that the Central Intelligence Agencyf conducted

THIS COPY IS NOT

regular surveillance of Cubana flights, filing cable

reports to Headquarters (Ibid., p. 11.) There was one
(unitaterai CIA surveillance team (LIFTRE) that observed
(exrivars and departures of Cubana flights) reporting

any. unusual recurrences (ana providing copies of flight

 

; mainfests (iia. p- 11). (oe Mexican government had its

 

“own surveillance team (LITEMPO) at the airport which pro-

vided the CIA with photographs of passports and copies

 

of passenger lists of individuals travelling to cuba.)

 

 

Classified by derivation:

 

  

{O19Z-/0 14d
 

‘
%,

 

m is to be used for material extracted

    

.—-controlled ts.) _ : LF

- 62 -

 

times of the Cubana flight) (veitner LIFIRE nor. the
Mexican surveillance team reported the arrival or depar-
ture flights. of the November 22, 1963 Cubana Airlines
flight to cuba)) then I.G. concluded that there were major
‘differences between what the Senate Select Committee re-
. ported about the alleged delayed Cubana flight and the
known facts. (Ibid., p. 12) The Cuban flight was on-
the ground in Mexico City for a total of four hours and
about ten minutes. (Ibid. p. 12) It was not delayed five
‘hours as reported in Book V. (The Investigation of the

Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Performance of

 

the Intelligence Agencies, Book V, Senate Select Committee
to Study Governmental Operations, 4/23/76, p. 30, Senate

Intelligence Report No. 94-755) The Cubana flight de-

 

parted at 2035 hours Mexico City time, 55 minutes ahead of
“the alleged arrival at 2130 of a private flight with a
secret passenger. (Ibid., p. 30) The 2035 departure dif-
“fered with the Senate Intelligence Committee Report that
the Cubana flight departed at 2200 hours. (Ibid. p. 31)

In addition, the.I.G. staff concluded that(in view of)

 

(the surveillance coverage of the Mexican airport [by )

 

(both the CIA and Mexican government,) it was doubtful that

 

 

Classified by derivation:
7

  
 

 

 

 

¢ -
S form i5 $a cu

   

fofor material extrac

   

from ClA--cantrulied documents.)
~ 63 _—
the alleged activity involving the private twin-engined
aircraft and passenger would have gone unnoticed or
unreported had it occurred. (1977 CIA I.G. Report,
TAB B, p. 12.)
Presumably, the discrepancies pointed out by the
‘Inspector General are meant to explain the fact that
the CIA did not take more aggressive investigative
steps to ascertain whether there might have been some
connection between the delayed flight and the assassina-
tion of John F. Kennedy. In that regard, the 1977 In-
spector General report explains that the Agency had car-
ried the lead as far as it was able by reviewing the
((surveittance Fite of the (irre and itanvov)operations and
asking (the Mexican surveillance team (LITEMPO)) about
-any strange occurrences at the airport on November 22,
1963. (CIA 1977 IG Report, p. 12, Tab B.) However,
the CIA's lack of access to further information about the
allegedly delayea-Cubana flight and unidentified passen-—
gex does not explain either the failure of the CIA to
' take more seriously the suspicions of the source, and

most importantly,.to report whatever information it had

 

to the Warren Commission. The Inspector General's attempts

 

 

   

Classified by derivation:
