pO

> “te. “a. “ie, “En. “Si. “TE “Sl. “J. “SB. “Si. “SE. “Sl.

OP oNeNS

k.

ee ES ES PY LP LP PF Ss

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA—controlled documents.)
. SoM PR,

       

- 189 -
iw. a

information and completed the appropriate
application form; and the declarant, ad-
mittedly exceeding her responsibilities,
informally telephoned the Russian Consulate,
with the intention of doing what she could
to facilitate issuance of the Russian visa
to Lee Harvey Oswald. However, they told
her that there would be a delay of about
four months in processing the case, which
annoyed the applicant since, according to
his statement, he was in a great hurry to
obtain visas that would enable him to travel
to Russia, insisting on his right to do so
in view of his background and his loyalty
and his activities in behalf of the Cuban
movement. The declarant was unable to re-
call accurately whether ornot the applicant
told her he was a member of the Communist
Party, but he did say that his wife***was
then in New York City, and would follow
him,*** (Senora Duran stated) that when Os-
wald understood that it was not possible to
give him a Cuban visa without his first hav-
ing obtained the Russian visa,*** he became
very excited or angry, and accordingly, the
affiant called Consul Ascue (sic),*** (who)
came out and began a heated disucssion in En-
glish with Oswald, that concluded by Ascue
telling him that "if it were up to him, he
would not give him the visa," and “a person
of his type was harming the Cuban Revolution
rather than helping it," it being understood
that in their conversation they were talking
about the Russian Socialist Revolution and
not the Cuban. Oswald maintained that he had
two reasons for requesting that his visa be
issued promptly, and they were: one, that his
tourist permit in Mexico was about to expire;
and the other, that he had to get to Russia
as quickly as possible. Depsite her annoyance,
the decalarant gave Oswald a paper*** in which
she put down her name, "Silvia Duran," and
the number of the telephone at the Consulate,
which is "11-28-47" and the visa application

oge o.- we - of
Classification: — a

| Classified by derivation:

££ ££ Ff ££ 4

4
Fee

 

Classification: | ,

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
- 190 -

 

was processed anyway. It was sent to the
Ministry of (Foreign) Relations of Cuba; from
which a routine reply was received some fifteen
to thirty days later, approving the visa, but on
the condition that the Russian visa be obtained
first, although she does not recall whether or
not Oswald later telephoned her at the Consulate
number that she gave him. 705/

The Central Intelligence Agency had relied on Duran's
statements but had deleted Duran's description of Oswald as
blonde and short. 706/ It had also excised Duran's statement--
"The only aid she could give Oswald was advising that he see
the Soviet Consul, and calling the person in charge of that
office" which alluded to Oswald asking for some type of aid at
ment “He never called her back" 707a/ was changed to "she does
not recall whether or not Oswald later telephoned her at the

v

Consulate number that she have him.707b/ Had the statements

been included, the Warren Commission's conclusions would not have

seemed as strong.

The Warren Commission staff was not completely satis-
fied with Ms. Duran's ten page signed statement obtained by
the Mexican authorities. W. David Slawson wrote:

We then discussed...the problem of (inter-
viewing) Silvia Duran. We pointed out that

our only interest in witnesses (in Mexico)
other than Duran was to get their formal testi-
mony for authentication purposes...This was

not true of Duran, however, because she had ay
been interviewed only by the Mexican police du

2000357 Classification?

 
    
 
 

  
 

     

Pe WaAda B €

Gigssitied &

( the Cuban Consulate. 707/ In addition, Ms. Duran's strong state-

‘

&
", A Bh BAA BB BARE BE ESE SE SS

 

Q0ENED3 Classification: -

42 3 Er J. 2. J. J. JSP «Ae

Classification: .

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—conirolled documents.)

- 188 -

  

City Station that its plan in passing information
Warren Commission was to eliminate mention of telephone
taps in order to protect their continuing operations. 702/
Headquarters cabled that it would rely on Silvia Duran's
statements and on the Consular files which the Soviets
gave the State Department. 703/ Headquarters stressed
that exact, detailed information from LITAMIL-7 and
LITAMIL-9--penetration agents in the Cuban Embassy--on
what Silvia Duran and other officials had said about Os-
wald's visit and his dealings would be valuable and usable
corroborative evidence. 704/

When the Central Intelligence Agency forwarded to
the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed statement.
It read as follows:

.she remembered..(that Lee Harvey Oswald)
was the name of an American who had come to
the Cuban Consulate to obtain a visa to travel
to Cuba in transit to Russia, the latter part
of September or the early part of October of
this year, and in support of his application
had shown his passport, in which it was noted
that he had lived in that country for a period
of three years; his labor card from the same
country written in the Russian language; and
letters in that same language. He had presented
evidence that he was married to a Russian woman,
and also that he was apparently the leader of
an organization in the city of New Orleans claim-
ing that he should be accepted as a "friend" of
the Cuban Revolution. Accordingly, the declarant,
complying with her duties, took down all of the

Sage tt : oe ~

  

| Cloisified by derivation:

SIT eweawwe w
 

é
p
:
p
p
p
4
/
4
p
4
f

eA LE a Le OS OP La

Classification: ;

 

(This form is to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)
~ 187 -

    

Viaape Sb me
py Me
Cuban Consulate and Silvia Duran confirmed
that he could get a Cuban visa only after he
received a Russian visa. She gave Oswald her name
and business phone number but never gave him her.
address because she had no reason to give it to
him. The only aid she could give Oswald was advising i
that he see the Soviet Consul and calling the person
in charge of that office. She knew that phoning the
Soviet Consulate was not one of her duties and that
if she did so she did it only to help Oswald. She
gave Oswald her business phone number only because he
would have to call subsequently to check whether he
had obtained a visa. He never called back."
Silvia Duran, released on November 24, 1963, was rearrested
November 27, 1963, when the Mexican government alleged that she
was attempting to leave Mexico for travel to Havana. 698/
According to the Mexican officials who detained Duran a second
time, there was no addition to her story. 699/

The Mexico City Station forwarded Duran's ten-page signed
statement to Headquarters on November 27, 1963. 700/ The
following day, Headquarters sent a clarification cable to the

Mexico City Station seeking to insure that neither Silvia

the Americans were behind her rearrest. The cable stated,
"We want the Mexican authorities to take the responsibility
for the whole affair." 701/

When the Central Intelligence Agency began to work

with the Warren Commission, Headquarters cabled the Mexico

meget

 

CENOD | pe ae en, a,
20ND | Classification:

 

Duran nor the Cubans would have any basis for believing that |

| Classified by derivation:

a EP ES AP a La AP ae ae
Classification: |

from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

mined that it would request the Mexican st tile

with whom it had a good relationship--to arrest Silvia
Duran (as Silvia Duran was a Mexican citizen, she did not
have diplomatic immunity) because she might shed some light
on the circumstances surrounding the assassination. 688a/

The Mexico City Station sent a note to the Gober-
nacion head, Luis Echevarria, with Silvia Duran's address,
her mother's address, her brother's address, her license
plate number, her home phone number, her place of work and
a request that she be arrested immediately. 689/ The Mexi-
co City Station also suggested that Duran he held incommuni-
cado until she could be questioned on the matter. 690/

The Mexico City Station did not receive prior au-
thorization from CIA Headquarters to request the arrest of
Silvia Duran by Mexican authorities. 691/ Headquarters
feared that a request to arrest Ms. Duran would jeopardize
the clandestine relationship between certain Mexican govern-
ment officials and the CIA if it were disclosed that Americans
were behind Duran's arrest. 672/ John Scelso, Chief of Western
Hemisphere/3, stationed at Langley Headquarters, telephoned
Winston Scott, the Mexico City Chief of Station, and requested
that Silvia Duran not be arrested. 693/ Scott told Scelso that
he could not rescind the request, and that Headquarters should
already have Cees da cable stating that Silvia Duran had

assitication:
oe Og ig TG EN

ears ae

  
 

32

(“lp “ila “lla “En. “i “Sie “Sn “i. “lp. “Up, “7 “HE

gy Sw
 

Classification: |

(This form is to be used for material extracted !
from ClA—controlled documents.) . Paes

 

- 186 - oO cite SH ABST
bape rh

been arrested. 694/ After Winston Scott's conversation

with John Scelso, Scott called Luis Echevarria and stated
that the Mexico City Station desired that all information
received from Duran be forwarded immediately to the Mexico
City Station, and that her arrest and statements not be
communicated to any leftist groups. 695/

On November 27, 1963, the Mexican government for-
warded to the Mexico City Station a copy of Silvia Duran's
ten-page signed statement. 696/ It said,

"Upon learning about the assassination

she and her husband speculated that Presi-

dent Kennedy might have been assassinated

for racial reasons. When she became aware

that the assassin was Lee Harvey Oswald, she
ascertained that it was the same man who ap-
proximately two months prior had been to the
Cuban Consulate to solicit an intransit visa

to Russia. Having taken his name from the
special documentation he presented she knew
that he was married to a Russian woman and
belonged to the “Fair Play for Cuba Committee."
She checked the data in the Consulate archives
and became certain that it was the same indi-
vidual who was blonde, short, dressed unelegant-
ly and whose face turned red when angry. The
Consul had denied the visa because to obtain

an intransit visa from the Cuban government,

it was imperative that he previously obtain a
visa from the Soviet Consulate. Since obtain-
ing a visa from the Soviets took four months
and Oswald's Mexican visa expired soon Oswald
was advised: that he see the Soviet Consul, and
calling the person in charge of that office.
The Soviet official told her that they would
have to consult Moscow which would take four
months. That afternoon, Oswald ' returned to the

Classification:

 
 

2ccneng

/ ine cee: \- Classified by derivation:

AP 2 2 2 er ar er ar

VW “Eh Eh Eh LE Eh bh ha EE ES
iy awngiadea Sas

tra’ trattte
duties:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT:
and transmitted’ to- wCentral , To

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DESTROYED Zz wt DISPATCHED . (OUTSIDE cia)
TO BY (Signature) . . TOs © : . af
\ ty eae Pe ee 8
BY (Signature) 4s ° | WITNESSED BY (Signature) BY (Signature) soe . eg
i . . ° ° coe . .
OFFICE DATE 7 OFFICES

  

 
 

(80-0147 0188 . /

JFK Assassinatior. System . Date: -4/28/201
Identification Form ~~

 

 

“Agency Inform: tion

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10147-10193

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTIOn

‘AGENCY FILENUMBER:, 61-12-01

 

SE EIEEREEEEEEIREEEnneeeeeeeemeeee

Document Infor nation

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: CIA - oe oo
TO: : . :
TITLE:

DATE: = 12/11/1978
PAGES: 329

SUBJECTS :
; : CIA, FILES
DOCUMENT TYPE:. FORM
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B°
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 01/01/2003

_ OPENING CRITERIA : .

COMMENTS: _ Box 35 Document Withdrawal Noti-:e Pending Coordination

 

v9.1 4
HW 47055 Docld:32273548 Page i .
i

   

 

(This form is ‘to be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

Cover Sheet

The attached package of paper is the property of
the House Select-Committee on Assassinations, and is
on loan to CIA under an agreement whereby CIA is not
to reproduce or copy. the draft or any portion thereof.

Notes may be taken on materials in this package,

and rough notes flay he prepared as a basis for informal

and oral exchanges with HSCA representatives. These

notes, however, are to be held as though controlled and

are to be destroyed under agreed conditions with HSCA.
They are not to be copicd or excerpted and are to be
held until further instructions are received for
eventual disposal.

  

These pa
and receipted accordingly. They are to be handled on
a secure basis as though constituting sensitive papers
cn 2 need-to-know basis.

  

 

“Classification: - - _

| Closstied by derivation: _

srs have been numbered for accountability
AY os 4] I Classification: a
6 1S (This form is bo be used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

C. Silvia Durdn . . Tor dui cl

When President John F. Kennedy was assassinated

on November 22, 1963,,the United States investigative
agencies--FBI, CIA, Secret Service, etc.--were asked to
investigate the assassination. When the Central Intelli-
gence Agency's Mexico City Station remembered that Lee
Harvey Oswald had visited Mexico City during late Septem-
ber and early October, it reviewed the electronic surveil-
lance files and found evidence of phone calls to the So-
viet Embassy made September 27th, September 28th, and
October Ist, that could have been made by Oswald. 685/
Review of the electroic surveillance files also produced

telephone calis on September 27, 1963 between the Russian

 

Consul and Silvia Duran, a secretary at the Cuban Consu-
late, where Oswald was discussed. 686/ In addition,

the Mexico City Station found a September 28, 1963 phone
call from Silvia Duran to the Soviet Consulate where Silvia’

Duran stated that there was an American citizen at the

sulate. 687/ A final phone cali was made ‘on October 1, 1963
where the "alleged" Oswald identified himself was also
found. 688/

On November 23, 1963 the Mexico City Station deter-

  
  

Cuban Consulate who had previously visited the Soviet Con- f

a.

Classification: Ff} a F, af 20° o/ 1
ant OOD! : Hl it z ° 5 aie in lerivation: 3 /

OMe eee Tw

y, “2. “. 4h “ “. 2 = HE “Se 4.
