 

 

 

 

 

DRAFT - Manuel Ray Rivero
Page 9 .

Ray's plan was delayed until May, at which time he quit
his job in Puerto. Rico and dropped out of sight.’ His in-
filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile
community. ®goon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered
a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected
Ray supporters. 79

After several days of bad weather and dodging Cuban patrol
boats, Ray and his crew of seven’ including a reporter-
photographer team from LIFE magazine, °- landed at the
Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban coast. °” There Ray
intended to make a final equipment check and a final radio
transmission.

Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays
- were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who
owned them. °4 The British discovered Ray and his group and
their cache of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal
entry into the Bahamas and took them to Nassau.°> The minimal
fine of $14 was levied on each member of the group and each
was admonished to never tresspass again.

Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as
ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

knows I'm coming® 87

 
 

 

DRAFT - MANUEL. RAY RIVERO
Page. @';6

Compounding Ray's: problems: was: the. reyelation by the FBI
and U.S. Treasury that Rogelio Cisneros: had illegally purchased
$5.0 000 worth of arms: for JURE ‘from a California arms manu-
facturer, Tt also caused the CIA considexable ‘embartassment™
The Agency denied Knowledge of the purchase to Revenue.
officials and . Because. of tHe autonomous nature of its relation-
ship with. JURE, did not make. any attempt to stop Reveriue s
ag?

investigation, The Agency: now, however, told Ray that he

. . : . qt
would have to move all his eperations outside U, S, territory.

In erder te shore up His. waning credibility within the
Cuban exile comimunity, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in
July, 1964 But, again, hie boat deyeloped motor trouble and
the plan was: aborted?!” The failure this time led three

. . 43 BS ,
exile. groups to withdraw from JURE.
All these events, from May through. July, resulted ina
CEA decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all
activities: from the. U S. mainiana’ > The Agency authorized a

a ; ne ee SHIT
final payment of $75,000 to the group to facilitate the move,

B8-Jé
thereby “closing the books*-on JURE. 4

ree . . 8977
Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968 .
although it was relatively ineffective, He personally main-

tained an imterest in anti<Castro activities, In 1969, he

 
 

 

 

 

 

DRAFT - MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 8

~~

Under his interpretation of the "Rules of Engagement of
the Autonomous Operations", Cisneros felt that JURE was not
obligated to report its military or political plans to the
CIA but that the Agency was obligated to finance JURE's
purchase of military equipment. °?

By the. fall of 1963, Ray was devoting his full time to
JURE, 79 traveling extensively in Latin American countries to
gain support which would allow JURE to mount resistance
operations inside Cuba!t Ray told this Committee that he
and Cisneros were in Caracas for this purpose on November 22,
1963. He remembers that the assistant to the President of
Venezuela came into the JURE meeting shortly after lunch that
day and announced that President Kennedy had been shot. 72
In January, 1964, Ray's organization was making plans

73 and, at the same time,

74

to move their operations to Costa Rica
establish a guerrilla training base in Venezuela. He also
began to formulate plans for his own infiltration into cuba?5
declaring that he would turn the operation of JURE over to

Rogelio Cisneros during his absence. /®

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

DRAFT =. MANUEL RAY. RIVERO - 11/3/78.
Page 7
Although reinstated into the national leadership of the

. MRP in April, 1962,°° Ray began formulating plans for a hew
anti-Castro organization, Junta Revolucionario Cubana (JURE) >?

which, he said, would be only political in nature.”° Ray
freely admitted that this group, organized in July, 1962 59
would .cooperate with the CRC but ultimately hoped to dominate
it.e?

. Concurrent with his JURE activities, Ray began giving
‘information to the CIA regarding possible recruitment or
defection of Castro officials’? Specifically, he discussed
plans with the CIA to approach the Cuban Ambassador to
Mexico. °* The CIA, deciding he had such capabilities,
recommended he be given $84,000 over a six-month period to
set up an intelligence network inside Cuba and create a
recruitment or defection capability in selected Latin American
countries. °? The degree of Ray's success in this area is
not documented, but his efforts continued into the summer of
1963 and involved recruitment activities in Prance and

Belgium. °4 “uas 50 impressed

 

 

 

by Ray's abilities that he recommended he be used more
extensively in this capacity.°>

In June, 1963, the CIA inaugurated the concept of
“Autonomous Operations", under which JURE could be financed
independently, not through the crc.°° Military operations

were also initiated®’ with Rogelio Cisneros as JURE military

: 8
coordinator.°

 
 

 

 

DRAFT - MANUEL RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 5 : :

Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs
invasion. In a Miami news conference on May 28, 1961, he said
the major reason for. the MRP break with the CRC was that the
Council had failed to live up to the written promises given
it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before
joining the organization. *° The first condition had been that
the Council was to give first priority to the underground
fighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,

Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the
Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he
said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

41

ment of invasion military leaders. Ray told the assembled

newsmen that his program to overthrow Castro was based on
maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,
and that he thought the leadership of this underground should

come from Cubans who could prove they had access to such a

potential force. 42

f

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the

1,43 claiming that the group had an effective underground

44

Counci

organization but needed material and financial support. Ray

felt the MRP had to be allowed to plan its own operations and

broaden its base of financial support..to include sympathetic

45

Latin American governments. He was totally opposed to another

large invasion attempt. 7°

 
 

 

 

 

DRAFT ~ MANUEL RAY.RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 6

The Miami CIA station recommended Ray be given an
initial $50,000 for operational expenses .47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo for
the Record was circulated, objecting to the Miami Station's
recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any
substantial military actions against Castro.48 Ray was told
to submit a "prospectus" of his plans for the MRP and advised
that no financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan
was reviewed.49 ;

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he
received sympathetic support for the MRP from the Governor
of that island, Luis Munoz Marin, who personally liked Ray.°°
While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground
in Cuba reported to the MRP Executive Council that he had been
in contact with the CIA and was told by the Agency that no
material resources would be available for the group until
Manuel Ray was dismissed as general coordinator. >t Charging
the CIA with repeated interference in the affairs of the MRP,
Ray resigned so that there Wouldn't be any obstacle to the
group's cohesion. °2-

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board an-
nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as
consultant to that Board. 53 Although’ there was no evidence
that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray
was looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials 54

and he endeavored to rebuild the MRP with Cuban exiles residing

there.55

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

DRAFT - 11/3/78 = Manuel Ray Rivero
B. Palmer - paqde 2
definite reason for this severence has been documented but, -
according to one source, Ray did not leave Castro because of
ideological or policy discrepancies but rather because of a
personality clash with Castro's Minister of Labor who: almost
shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. © Another theory
about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with whom Ray had been associated.”
For whatever reason, Ray did continue to permit his name
to be associated with the Castro regime?® until May 1960
when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People (mrp tt
The MRP wasganti-Castro organization which believed that
the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the
needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. It did not wish
to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored
continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of

13 ana advocated the regulation of private investment

14

his regime
and nationalization of all utilities. Associated with Ray
in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon
Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros,+° Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Felipe
pazos.1®

organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was:
considered the most important- underground group.*7 Working

in tightiy organized cells, the leadership in one province

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other

 
 

180-10142-10404

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

DRAFT - 11/3/78 _
B. Palmer

MANUEL RAY RIVERO

When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile.
leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was. described as "softspoken and
unassuming", a person of "highest intellect, sincerity and
conviction" -- in other words, a natural leader. In 1947,
the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban
Ministry of Public Works to study civil engineering at the
University of Utah.” Ray was in the United States for two
years before returning to his native Cuba in 1949 and-
obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of
which was project manager for the construction of the
Havana Hilton Hotel.

Reacting to the excesses of the military rule of
Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement
in 1957 and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism
against the government. His political posture and active
resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,
upon assuming control: of the government of Cuba, appointed
Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959. Within a
few months of his appointment, Ray confided to two anti-Castro
Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of Communism in
the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire against
"El Lider Maximo." ~

Ray's tenure in Castro's government was short-lived. He

was relieved of his official position in November 1959. No

THIS COPY IS NUT
FOR RELEASE.

/0(42-~teeo
 

 

 

 

 

 

By
DRAFT ~ MANUEL. RAY RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page. 3 :
in other provinces. 7% The MDC engaged in acts* of sabotage
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from the
Florida Keys. 1? : . a

Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his resistance
group, Ray was criticized as being suspiciously tardy to the
anti-Castro movmement . 7° Charges of "Fidelism without Fidel"
were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist
ideologies.?* Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background
was questioned by some in the State Department?” and the Miami
CIA station’? when, in the summer of 1960, ‘he was being re-
cruited by the CIA in Cuba to become a member of the Frente
Révolucionario Democratico (FRD), a newly. formed anti-Castro
organization sponsored by the cra.*4 ‘The Agency considered him
an important political asset?” and facilitated his clandestine
entrance into the United States-© on November 10, 1960.7"

Nevertheless, there was internal conflict within the
CIA about Ray's political compatibility to United States
government policy. In a CIA Memo for Record, dated November 21,

1960, one Agency officer declared, "... Ray did not politically
28

represent anything to cheer about." A CIA officer who met
privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political
posture was “doubtful" as far as U. S. government acceptance

was concerned, 7? and a further assessment portrayed Ray as so

far “left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

U. S. interests as castrd?°

 
 

 

    

DRAFT = MANUEL RAY, RIVERO - 11/3/78
Page 4

Some prominent Cuban emigres also expressed negative
opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president
of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his
program too Marxist? and declared that Ray was bitterly
anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-
ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion
Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing
everything."33 Although aware of his controversial political
philosophy, the CIA continued to actively recruit Ray to join
the FRD?4 because the White House and State Department pushed
for his inclusion.35

Ray received full operational approval as a "political
asset" Jon February 7, 196136 but resisted joining the newly
formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had
resisted inclusion into the FRD. He said he felt the members
of the CRC were too restrained and he did not want to become
a part of a situation in which someone else was running the
show for the exiles.37 However, three weeks before the Bay of
Pigs invasion, Ray was persuaded to join the CRC as a show of
unity.38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA
investigators that he was aware of the fact that certain in-
fluential and wealthy Americans, among them former Ambassador
William Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy
propaganda was being circulated accusing him of being a

Communist. 39
