 

tic. Patrick Carpentier
April 5, 1978
_ Page 2

7)

8)

3)

‘CIA provide a listing of such documen

The CIA's written statement replying to the Committee's
request of February 21, 1978 for an ylination of the
criteria that governed the opening of
ing the years 1958~64 was not responsive to our inquiry
because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the
relevant time-period. Accordingly, I am renewing our
request of February Zi, 1978. in the t that there
were no criteria governing the openin such files
during that period, the Committee would appreciate a
written statement indicating that this was the case.

 

   

 

CIA ‘document #563~810 indicates that thera are 37 docu-_
ments that should ba in. Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file

but which are missing from the file. ‘Furthermore, this

document also indicates that there should be a machine
listing of these documents attached ae part of document
#562-810, but no such listing appears the file. ‘The
Select Committees on Assassinations re ests that ths —
a5 well as a
sents are lo-
vala’s 201 fille.

  
  
   

written explanation of where those doc
caced and why they do not appear in ©

 

Pursuant to my letter of December 27, i977, I would like.

to note that the document referred to,

ain this paragraph
is a classified documen:. ;

  
 
   

After having reviewed both the docume
tne CIiA's files on Priscilla. Johnson M
materials. that were independently made
under the Privacy Act, it is apparent 1
which were made available to the Commi
clude HTLINGUAL materials. As the Conn
already requested ali information contained in your
files on the individuals who are the subjects of our
requests, please review the files that you hava pre-
viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur-
ing that all of the information pertaining to the
individuals involved has, in fact, been provided.

contained in

ilan and the’

ailable to her
the files

e did not in-

 

 

Finally, the Committee would like to interview ail persons

who served _asjcase officers in the Soviet Russian

 

Division of

 

 

the CIA's

 

 

 

1964, as well as

Station] for the period 1963 throuch February
the Chief(s) of Station and Deputy Chief (s) of

 

tation}for that period. the Committee xequests that the CIA

 

 
180-10440-10268)

v

 

CHALLE
BAMUTL L, DaVING, GOO
STEWART DB, ME RILEY, COMM,
CNABLES THOME, MEUA,
HAMOLO 3, RAWYE NT, Mice,

 

ities on Sesassinations

   

April S. 1978

 

Mr. Patrick Carpentier ~~ wo,
Office of the Legislative Counsel LE LLS
Central Intelligence Agency :
Washington, D. Cc.

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

®@ circun-

 

In connection with its investigation into
stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select
Committee on Assassinations requests access to ail files and
file references pertaining to the following individuals:

  

1) Edwara Jay Epstein
2) Marvin Kantor

3) [cnarrorte Bustos \ .
4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committea with access to
the following information: .

  
   
  
  

5) Any and all investigative reports p
Howard Hunt pertaining to the John F. snnedy assas~-
Sination. ‘(These reports were not ne: ssacily pre-

pared during the period of Mr. Hunt's employment
“with the CIA). °

6) fhe file that was prepared by the CIA in reference to
E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-related activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files
ining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

 

However, Roger Gabrielson, of your staff, has requested |

  

ttee would also appreciate a response From the
ng the following matters: .

   

chat the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

 

 

pod Sey

{EO-(O/YP vOI]ICL
 

 

4

Mx. Patrick Carpentier
April 5, 1978
Page 3

 

to interview
contact therm

either make these persons available for our sta
or provide their last known address so that we
directly. : .

 

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.
Sincerely,

G. Robert Blake:
Chief Counsel an

 
 

2 Director

'GRB:bwd)

       

 

 

 
