DRAFT MANUEL Gls silisetont 77s

4
4
J _ Page ta

 

(This form is to be: used for material extracted
from ClA—controlled documents.)

{ called togethera congress. of Cuban exiles to create a new
. %, : f
, organization. 7* As jate as i972, he was actively engaged in '

the formulation of the People’ s “Revolutionary Party, hoping

7.
to reinvigorate the anti-Castro movenent ,7> put it, too, failed
yoo

to make an impact.

Ray still resides in Puerto Rico and heads his own’

. 30]
- engineering consulting firm in San gJuan.??

Nn

   

f
‘
f
t
G

Neen

 

Classified by derivation:

 

 
Nene

Ne aeedemtee

_21. CIA/BROyp~RayMolumes LES sty} Report

   

 

 

Classifiesdanrs en | arly
(This BABUELORAY uURWVEFOmatericl extracted wit caf ,

from ClA—controlled documents.) .

fanuek-Ray~-Riverd “(Ray)

 

 

1.
o-Di TAS 11/17/60 of
2. BSsohe tess, (Pp. 9, “Ttem 8, >) FBI Manolo Ray References, YY
Section 2) 7 ( oe Dots 0244)
3. Ibid.

4. HSGA-$009605, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,
Interview of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales
SEK Bote OS SS 00f)

5. Ibid.
64 Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library’
Edition, p. 91 ;

7. HSca-#005990,. ps2, FBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray,
File #97-4546, Section 1.) p7,-: tore DOCUreert 005440)

ore Secg psa om

9. CIA/BBO.,..Ray.Volume..IV,Infoxmation Report, 3/16/61,
Subject+ d,-Character-and-Economie~ -Goncepts—of

  

 

10. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
“Edition, p. 92

ll. HSCA-2999065, Memo to CG. "Robert. Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview

 

of: Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales, . DEE Dottie’
re 2A ; COMaT)
12. CIA BO,—Ray~VoLume~Viy 6/9/62 study of program—for
Liheratien of Cuba—submitted—by Ray- ; £

13. CIA/—BO;—Ray-VoLlumeLe, Cabie to Director from MASH, 11/17/60 a
14. Ibid.

Wee ‘a
15. CIA/BBO;-RayVolume..it, erganization—of MRP 2

16. Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library
Edition, p. 92

 

17... New York Times, April 10, 1961, Castro Foes Map Multiple y
Forays, by Tad Szulc :
18. Ibid.
a Far | awe _*
19. Ibia Classivication:

 

 

Tore SPCR Sear rar mmo

 

20. Give Us This’ Day by E. Howard Hunt, ifn Library euit ions py

     
   

rtlis,

 
 

evVES- and -~TOKGS —

   
 

10/17/60, Subject.Meetang—vwreh~du

 
 

}

|
2

 

Bde
Rod Sed PITA SET de

Page eo 10
- A

i ran

(This form is to be used for material extracted
Compound ingn Rago RoR deBsunitAR) Che reyelation by the FBI _¥

 

and U.S, Treasury that Rogelio Cisneros had illegally purchased

$50, 000 worth of arms fox JURE £rom a california arms manu- :
a 317
facturer, °~ It also caused the-ere considerable ‘embarrassment,

 

officials and, “Beceuse ‘0 ofthe autonomous: nature Of ite—welatioh-
Teeny wrt ma ht toro ait “ae
skhép-with. JURE, AVY S.os maka sug Gibbon os ble ibe - 9 Ser Lop eve > bld

Cr)

 

 

investigation. Agency} — Ray ‘thoehe ,
; weuld—have. to move. all his operations outside U. S. territory. : ¢
in erdex to shore. up nis waning credibility within the

Cuban exile ‘community, Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in .
Suly, 1964 but, again, hits boat developed motox trouble and C
the plan was aportea. The failure this time led three
exile groups to withdraw: from ‘gure. ® f
All these events, from May through July, resulted ina
CLEA, decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all : ¢
activities from the v. Sy mainland. "* : _@he-Agency_autharized 1 -
Wb ma ke, , 359s ’

final payment e£-$75;6¢0" to the. ‘group, to facilitate the move,”

theretiy: ‘closing the. Books" on JURE. 7
got

Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968

although. it was relatively ineffective. He personally main- :

tained an interest in anti-Castro activities. In 1969, he

 

 

Classified by ‘dativation:

 

 
 

ee sete

 

1

Nt

 

DRAFT — Manuel Ray Rivero, 5
Page‘ 9 Classification: =

 

Ray's mafia sae aipeatorvagtergheets gels? time he quit

. from ClA—confrolled documents.) 77
his job in Puerto Rico and’ dropped out of sight. His in-

filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile
.,. 78 ;
community. Soon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered

a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected

Ray supporters. 19

after several days of bad weather and adoaging Cuban patrol

: : 80. :
boats, Ray and his crew of seven, including a reporter—

photographer team from LIFE magazine, °- landed at the .
: : 2 7
Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban coast.® There Ray
intended to make a final ‘equipment check and a final radio

* ed 83
transmission.

Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays

. were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who

owned them.24 The British discovered Ray and his group and
their cache.of weapons and explosives, arrested them for illegal
entry into the Bahamas and took ‘them to  Nassau.°° The minimal
fine of $14 was levied on each member of the group and each

was admonished to never tresspass again. .

Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as

ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, “and he

87

knows I'm coming*

 

a
t

bE
i
v

eT,

 
 

| { os . Cicassitication:
DRAFT — MANUEL TRAYoREVERD be 3cb4 3:67 Gnateriot extracted

Page 5 from ClA—controlled documents.)

 

{ Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs
invasion. In a Miami news conference on May 28, 1961, he said
the major reason for the MRP break with the CRC was that the
Council had failed to live up to the written promises given

it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before

 

joining the organization. *° The first condition had been that

the Council was to give first priority to the underground .

 

pithters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly, :
Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the V

Batista ‘regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he

 

said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

ment of invasion military leaders. “* Ray told the assembled

 

newsmen that his program to overthrow Castro was based on

 

maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,

5 and that he thought the leadership-of this underground should 4
; come from Cubans who could prove they had access to such a 7
. } potential force. 42 . - 7 é

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the

council, 43 claiming that the group had an effective underground

organization but needed material and financial support. 44 Ray

"enter
Sen AI,

a felt the MRP had to be allowed to plan its own operations and
-proaden its base of financial support to include sympathetic

Latin American governments. ‘° He- was totally opposed to another

large invasion@

 

 

Classified by derivation:

   

SS ELITE ALLE EES ES BEI NOONE ETE RENAE

 
 

Naw

' xecommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any

. Manuel. Ray was dismissed as general coordinat

 

 

DRAFT - yanven Ciessieavion2L/2/7°
Page® 6

 

,

(This form is to be ‘used for material extracted

The Miami fern eatontsalled asumenitled Ray be given an
initial $50,000 for operational expenses .47 Reaction at
CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo few
the Recoxd was circulated, objecting to the “ Wiami Statens

substantial military actions against castro.48 Ray was told

 

to submit a “prospectus” of his plans for the MRP and advised
thet no.financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan a

was reviewed.49

 

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he

received sympathetic ‘support for the MRP from the Governor
50

of that island, Luis' Munoz Marin, who personally Liked Ray.
While Ray was in Puerto ‘Rico, a member of the MRP underground
in Cuba reported: to the MRP Executive Council that he had been

im-eontact withthe CiA-andwas told by-the-Ageney that no

material resources would’ be" ‘available for the group until

corey,

or.ot Charging

‘

thy Sa with repeated interference in the affairs of the: MRP,

a

Ray resigned so that there wouldn't be any obstacle to the

group's cohesion. °2

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning. Board an-

nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a~year position as-

consultant to that Board.°23 Although. there was no evidence

that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray

. oe 4
was looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials 54

a
4

# Vs $5 wn y °
and he cndeavo see Hon NE MRP wien Cuben exiles residing

oa : Classified by derivation: ________—

29 LG aa

   

 

 
 

| BRAET, ~ 12/3/7ChasesneeiBH: MAvere

B. Palmer — pace

   

‘ © (This form is to be ‘used for moterial extracted \
definite reasofrofiddAth:eirsiedcinemmstias been documented but,

according to one source, ‘Ray did. not leave Castro because of

Nee

ideological or policy discrepancies but rather bebause ‘of a

personality clash with Castro's Minister of Labor who almost

 

shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting. ® Another theory
about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare
| Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary
hero with. whom Ray had been associated.

ag : . . . :
For whatever reason, Ray did continue to permit his name

Nene

to be associated with the Castro regime? until May 1960

when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People cure}

Nee meenenmes

on ;
The MRP wasaanti-Castro organization which believed that

the ideas and aims of. the democratic left best suited the

bo needs and aspirations of the Cuban people. 2? “It did not wish

to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored

 

continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginnirg of

 

his regime? and advocated the regulation of private investment

and nationalization of all utilities. ©" Associated with Ray

 

-in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon

§ Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros,?° Ru£o Lopez Fresquet and Felipe

 

pazos.+®
‘ Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was
considered the most important underground group.*! Working o

 

ain tightly organized cells, the leadership. in.one province
was unaware of the identities of their counter parts in other

Classification:
‘ a — :

 

     

 

| Classified by derivation:
 

180-10447-10185 ’ Oo :
Urassiicaricn, “4 oa

 

 

(This foMANUBS RAYseBINERMoteriat extracted

from ClA—controlled-documents.}

When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile

1
{
:

?

leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as “softspoken and
unassuming", a person of “highest intellect, sincerity and

- ol
conviction" -— in other words, a natural leader. in 1947,

 

the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban

J Ministry of Public Works to study civil engineering at the
2 .

University of Utah. Ray was in the United States for two

« years before returning to his native Cuba in 1949 and

 

 

: obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of
{ which was project manager for the construction of the
‘ ca
3 a
; Havana Hilton Hotel.
; Reacting, to the excesses of the miittary~rale ox
; Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement &
° by
Ee

in 1957 and began supervising sabotage and acts of terrorism

 

4 ;
against the government. His political posture and éctive

Ne

 

resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,

upon assuming control of the government of Cuba, appsinteda
. 5 :

7 Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959. Within a -

few months of his apoointment, Ray confided to two azti-Castro

Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of ‘Communism. in : :

the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire atainsi

‘ . . 6

"fl Lider Maximo."

Ray's tenure in Castro's government was short-lived. He

 

was relieved of his officiel position in Novent

oo 22: :
Classification:

 

  

Central Intelligence Agency
has no Objection to Release

Po da?
Dates as sanwirized
ee

fO147 -10 185

 

 
. e 3 oge .
, pags Classification: ~—-___

|
i} ee 1B es net
v in other provifitestorm is HiebdNgdefgagesridneaaxed of sabotage

from ClA—controlled documents.)
and was supplied with explosives sent by launches from the

| Florida xeys.19
Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his cesistance

group, Ray was criticized as being, suspiciously taray to the
anti-Castro movmement.2° Chargés of "Pidelism without Fidel"
were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist

: ideologies. 7+ Perhaps for ‘these | reasons, Ray's background
was questioned by some in the State Department? and the Miami

CIA station’ >t ee in. pie sume of 1960, he was [being re-

we Cams. tp
cruites Dy t ne rs in me to becottef a member of the Frente

Revolucionario Democratico 2 ERP a peas akan anti~-Castro

organization, sponsored by ‘the (cxa* / dine-aganay) Co te ced him
an important political asset2° and facilitated his ebtandestime’
( entrance into the United states?® on Novenpes 10, 1960.77 .
Nevertheless, there was nent ; within the

SaUne Gavin, ‘\ ton
CLR. about Ray's political, compatibility my United States

\ b government policy. In a(era reno for’ Record, dated November 21,

4 3 —, * :
J fs 1960, one | Agency )officer declared, "-.. Ray did not politically
28

 

LD represent anything to cheer_about." A CXA officer who met
privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political
“ posture was "doubtful" as far as U.S: government acceptance
was concerned, 7? and a further assessment portrayed Ray as so

Far “left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

Us. S. interests as.Castrd?°

Classification:

 

1 Classified by ¢srivation:

a y

RESIS RSE eh AACS DSE SS SRE ERG ERLE IONE YET IO ELISE LTE LENSE DES I Te a

 

 

“7 RE
¢

Nos NES

ane

Page 4

 

.investigators that he was awar

 

DRAFT ~- TNUBICRR STAs 2OOE

“(This form is to be -used for material extracted
Some pronlicre ftA-eubairolledhdgaeanta] so expressed negative

 

opinions about Ray, among them Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, president

of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his

program too Marxist31 and declared that Ray was bitterly

anti-American as well as probably totalitarian ; in his think

ing.32 Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion

STM,

Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to
banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing

Sg
everythiiig. "33 Although aware of his controversial political

philosophy, the-GiA—continued—te-egtively recrmit Ray to FO in

.

the-rrei4-yecause“the White House and State Department pushed

for his inclusion.3°

TTT,

: x
Ray received full operational approval as a "political

asset" on February 7, 196136 put resisted joining the newly

ween see,

. formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had

resisted inclusion into the .FRD.- He -said he felt the members

of the CRC were too restrained’ and he did not want to become

a part of a situation in which someone else was running the

show for the exiles. 23.37 Gouever) fn three weeks before the Bay of

Eon
pigs invasion, “Ray was persuaded to join the CRC as a show of

unity. 38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA

e of the fact that certain in-

fFluential and wealthy Americans, among then former Ambassador

William Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy

propaganda was) Mhasayiemiams bed-acersing-him-ef being a

fy Classified by derivation:

39

Communist.

oy

 
