 

| asked him about the guy who was reportedly the head CIA

man here, Mr. B, or Bender or his supposedly "real" name,
Drescher, and what he looked tike. "Oh, | don't know,” he
said. "| mean | never met him. You've got to understand the

agents didn't talk to the contract employees, but there would
just be a telephone system of reporting. The telephones were
connected by relays so that if the FBI were checking the number
it would be located in one area but it would just be a relay
station, so they could never check it down."

Sturgis talked then about Schweiker and the Reagen situation and
| said‘! thoughf they woutd have a tough fight on their hands

against Ford who, after all, has all the power. "I disagree
-with you," said Sturgis. "I think the power is up there and
_they're advising him what to do. He's being controlled, like
all Presidents are. Certain power groups control, you know
what | mean?"

_We changed the subject and mentioned he had been out in California
last week. He said he was invited out by Chuck Ashman [a former
Miamian who has a radio or TV talk show out there and has
written some exploitation books about the Mafia and the CIA.
Sturgis said he has Oscar Fraley (author of "The Untouchables")
who wants to do the story of his life. [Fraley's latest book
is on Jimmy Hoffa].

He said he has been trying to get a hold of his ex-agent friend
(Salvatore) who told him about the Ruby in Havana story to get
more information but the quy is in the Domican Republic for

the week,

“Sturgis then asked if it were possible to get a copy of the.
Tarabochia memo and | said | would check on that with my office.

The conversation got back on the CIA: ‘The CIA is very funny," he.
said. "They do things right up to a point and then they turn.right
around and.screw you. Depending what their policy is! If they.
owant to chanae it they!!l change it and bury your ass too. “In

the last few years they've had their own internal, power strugale

and in that struggle a lot of people wk get hurt who are decent ;
people. Like if ! favor Howard Hunt and his boss gets whacked out,
then everybody down the line goes. That could co into hundreds aor
couple thousand people. Just like when Helms left. { told-you

that Nixon wanted some files from Helms and. Helms wouldn't. give

it to him, so the President fired him. Now I'm assuming, from.

my discussions with certain CIA officials fired now. the files.

he wanted vertained to the Bay of Pigs and also the JFK assassination.
And Helms didn't to turn them over. He was scared that if he»
“turned it over to the President, that Haldeman and Erlichman

would have used it for political reasons. And after Helms was :
fired McCord turned wax around and said, ‘lf Helms qoes, all the
trees in the forest will talif' That's why McCord blew the.

 

 

hre-s0955 Docid:32264840 Page 9

 
 

‘whistle on the President. Well, you know who Deep Throat was,

don't you? | think Helms ordered Bennett to bury Nixon,
Deep Throat was probably several guys, but the main man. was
Bennett, the CIA man. Unfortunately poor Howard got sucked

into this thing, t don't think he even knew anything about it.
And Bennett was his boss, both at the Mullen company and,

| suspect, his CIA chief also. Oh yeah,.!| believe certain

CIA officials, Helms the major. one, set up Nixon to be caught.
And the company's hot at me because | told all this to the
Rockefeller and the Senate Watergate committees. ‘But fuck'em,
they screwed me enough all.these years. Maybe Schweiker will
get to be the Vice Bresident-and I'f} get him to get me

into ClA and I'll clean that place up myself..."

And on that note....

Ht

HW 50955 Docld:32264840 Page 10
 

2

“What Ellis is doing," said Sturais, “is to file Howard's now

and then by the na end of the week or next week hets filing

mine. Both Howard and myself are using Ellis." CEItis Rubin,

focal controversial attorney is most known In Miami for his ne
publicity ploys and long-standing. feud with State Attorney (Dade,Co.)
Richard Gerstein. ] Sturgis said the suit mak would be against 9°53 °
the authors and publisher of Coup D'Etat. and against Playboy

and Hefner and later maybe agains? Dlek Gregory ("As soon as

| dig up enough about him." | said libel suits are tough to

win, "Yeah, but hey," satd Sturgis (St. George was right: he

says "but hey” a fot], even if we get a judgment for a dollar |

it'l! stop all the shit about us being involved in the the
assassination of John F. Kennedy." :

 

He asked if | had a chance to speak with the Cuban who received:
that letter. ! said no, | haven't had a chance because as a result.
of his television appearances Wally Weston had come forth with :
his information and | had been busy-on that. "1 spoke to

Wally Weston tonight," said Sturgis, "and | have a meeting to

sit down and find out what he can tel! me and so forth,"

Back on Oswald's meeting with Lyle Stuart, Sturgis said he
thinks it may have been possible because there was a report that
he himself had met Oswald in Miami and that could have been- very
possible, what with all the anti-Castro people he met and the
double-agents, but he himself didn't remember it. But he did
hear that Stuart was connected with the Fair Play for Cuba
Committee and getting financial assistance trom Cuba. "This
Bob Tralins was a friend of his and dislikes the man very much,
but he definitely told me this."

Switching subjects, | asked him what he knew about operations
that took place from Cay Sal island. [the Hughes connection. ] =>
All he knew, he said, that fhere was a black Customs official who
tried to keep people off the island because the CIA used it-as.
a stepping stone, like a “listening post" off the coast of Cuba.
“He himself didn't have any operations from there. "On some of.” oo
. the island close by there we stopped by occasionally for several 0°

 

a  houss, but | kept away trom Cay’ Sal because it was being operated yey
*) »yother people, other aroups." [777] Was it ClAvor ofher opeuators?
eee > “They were CIA operations. One time Barker got a hold of me because

| was doing something, in some operations with Bill Johnson which
| was financing, and Barker got a hold of me and said, Rey, we're
doing something very sensitive in that area! and he asked me to
stop for a while and go into another area.” [Note: This is obviously.
; [ery get he Who was Sturgis working for if not CIA? Here he became
. | very deliberately convoluting and wound up talking about Pinar de Rio,*
operations in Cuba. ]

 

tf asked him if he was involved in the training camp in New Orleans
witth Gus DeLabarre and Rudopph Davys: "No," he said quickly. "Not
at all. | never knew about any training camp in Dallas...or

New Orleans." [NOTE: WHO SAID ANYTHING ABOUT DALLAS?227]

 

HW.50955 Docld:32264840 Page 6
 

-notes--call from Frank Sturgis 7/28/76 -tatel

-asaid he wasn't surprised by the Schweiker announcement of

running with Reagen: et think Schweiker's using this thing,
but, hey, you can't blame him, he's a politician. The thing
worked out beautifully for him." Then he asked: "ls he still -
officially investigating the JFK thing?" 1 said, yes, he was
still interested. Atter a few minutes of inconsequential
conversation, he asked again: “Hey, let'me ask you something. .
Are you still checking up on the JFK thing?" i said, yes, |
was. Then he said: "I told you about +hat letter from Cuba,
didn't 1?" :

| said we wm had checked up on it and that we had gotten a
memo from Tarabochia about it but the memo said nothing about
Castro, although it did mention. a trip to Cuba by Ruby.

He asked did the report mention about the letter that came

to the relative in Miami, he said his friend “Salvatore” Cthe
former CIA oan] told him definitely there was a kk letter

 

and that "Bob Dwyer probably was the man [the FBI agent], because:
he was in charge of the Cuban desk at the Bureau downtown, was.

probably one of the agents who picked up the letter."

1 tofd him that Tarabochia'ts memo indicated only that Ruby
went to Cuba, not that he had seen Castro, and that the FBI
man was James O'Oonnor, not Dwyer. Sturgis asked how we got
a copy of that memo and | told him | didn't know. He imptied
that perhaps if was changed or censured and | said that was

He then sald that Puby could have been to Cuba without people
knowing it, of course. :

Sturgis then asked te if | # had ever heard of Lyle Stuart.

| said yes. he's the RM book Bk publisher who has published
a lot of sensational and controversial books. "You know he

supposedly met Oswald a month before Kennedy was assassinated

in’ Miami, accorddng to a report ttm trying to track down. ™"

the is going to the library to check up on that.

Committee. "lt was also reported he was very pro-Castro and
‘that Castro was suoporting him financially and that Lyle
Stuart was seen with and connected with Oswald. And it was
reported in the papers that Oswald was here a month before
the assassiadtion. Now it may all be bullshit but I'm still
aoing to check it out." : .

 

one to check with. The guy's. name is Bob Travlins.

ry did ask him & if it would be alright for kh

 

-hear that?" Sturgis asked, just to make sure.

HW, 50955 Dacld: 32264640 Page 7

possible. for allt | knew, because | had never seen the original.

There's supposed to be something in the newspapers in 1963 before
Konnedy was killed about Oswald being in Miami, Sturgis said, and |

tyle Stuart, says Sturgis, was head of the Fair Play for Cuba.

Sturgis said the man who told him this was @ writer who was "pretty
much involved" in the investigation of the assassination. He was
with him last night, and the guy said that Lyle Stuart would be the
im to tatk with you."
“at this time Sturgis went to get Traifins phone number and in the

‘background | could hear the television news which ~~ coincidental ly \=-
happened just then to announce the news of Howard Hunt. filing the .

$2-1/2 million libel suit against Weberman & Canfield. "Did you.

 
 

(Were you dealing with him much?) Well, | worked with him, but

| wasnt+ dealing directty with him because he wasn't connected
with & the « people | was associated with. He was more with

the economic section, you know, that certain officials dealt with.

(You met him here in Miami or Havana?) In Havana. But | didn't
have any g# dealings with him because, you know, certain people. |
worked with certain people. It°was the thing that you call
compartmentation, you know, °

They dealt with diéferent people in different ways. Just like:
Tony Verona. He was a CIA agent, He not only was one of the
leaders, -hé was an agent per se. And even today Manolo Artime
is still an-agent. He Wasn't then but he is today. He'S s#iT}
with them. You know he.was the civil coordinator between the
Revolutionary Junta and the Bay of Pigs... .

(mentioned Gerald Shamma and her Artime story) Heh heh BBA, she
told you that story, eh, | wish she hadn't totd you that sbébry,
heh heh heh, .

Artime: "When he came-back from Cuba, they made hima businessman,

they made him a very wealthy man. 1! think he's got a littte

Problem with Semoza now, but he was working closely with him,
**But if you're with the right People they don't give a shit

“what you did, as long as they control you. The CIA got some

shits of the worid working tor them, ;

The Agency slammed the door on all four of us when we got

out of prison, Colby sent orders out to ali stations not

to télk to us or have any contact with us. Bot it makes no
“difference to me, if | need to get to them | go through other

people... :

But, hey, that's the name of the game,. | guess. When you-get |

into the. big league stuff with the powefdul people up in Washington
or Langley, if the wrong group of people are in control and you're |
“not in that league, they can hurt you. And right now the wrong on
“group is up there, Have been since Colbyts been up there. Colby's
“got his own people and I'm not one of: them." :

(Looks fike they're getting ready to hang » Lucien Conein) Well,
you know, Howard knew him very welt. Evidentally, e's been
involved in some things and they don't want to tet it come out,
But there's a jot of shit Colby has been involved_in and he comes

out smeéling like a rose" Evidentally, he [Conein] is in fand bad
with the wrong people. Colby cleaned house and put his own peopte
in theeeaw and what they do is use people for sacrificial lambs...

like they did us in Watergate...to take the heat off of them..
Howard himselt# didn't realize that he was used and we in turn
worked with Howard and they buried all of us.. -

 

WW..50955, DocTd: 32264840 Page 5

 

 
 

 

But like | told you before, Bennett was the man who really did

a number on the President. (Bennett of Mullens Co.) And though.
they closed house and withdrew all the agent that were overseas.
working for the x Mullens Co, they re-opened a new company

and had to re-do the agents with the new company...

| curious to find out where Bennett is right now.

(Howard Hughes connection) Oh yeah, they used him. They let
him make a lot of money; There's still a lot of places down
here especially that are still CIA fronts...-

-remembered also that Castro's G2 at meeting name wasR
Romero Valez... ~

 

 

HW 50955 DocId:32264840 Page 6
 

a ESR. t ™ °

Notes -- call from Frank Sturgis 6/25/76

He just ran across. a friend of his who used to be an agent, In
communications, and # he "revived" his mind on something that

‘he "completely forgot." (He had previously told me that he
had tost almost all his notes from his adventures In the
intelligence business, which explains why he hadn't remembered
this before.)

He reminded me he told me that he had been sent to Washington

by a group of key men in Castro's inner circle and told to :
give some secret documetts and lists of names to Hoover, personally.
(Sturgis didn't tell me this, but Pedro Diaz-Lanz -- the guy who
came out with Sturgis and was head of Castro's Air Force -- told
someone the list contained the names of Cuban exile double agents.
At the top of the list, says Diaz-Lanz, was Artime's name.)

Sturgis says he never did get to.see Hoover but he did see his
personal secretary. He says he was sent to Hoover directly

because the insiders didn't trust the American Embassy.

 

He believes the Rockefeller Commission and the Watergate Commisston
has testimony from his about plots agabast Castro, but he couldn't
get an OK to assassinate pxaks Castro because of the Eisenhower
administration.

One of the people that Sturgis says he was in touch with here,
besides xka&ku the CIA, was Al Tarabochia. He was in touch .
with Tarabbohia at this particular time, and therefore Tarabochia
would know of this incident:

There was a meeting in Cuba bout two, two and half months
before the Kennedy assassination. There were a number. of
high-rakking rebel officers present: &m Fidel, Raul, Che,

‘the chief of GB (can't remember his name), a man who was called
"El Mexicano," several other people, a woman...and- Jack Ruby.

“The meeting was in Havana. One of the rebel officers present was
ta half-brother xk of a Cuban exile living in Miami. After the
JFK assassination, the officer sent -a letter to his’ half brother .
telling of the meeting, the discussion to assassinate JFK and. ~
the presencd of Jack Ruby. He smuggled the letter out, probably
‘thhough Mexico. :

‘The deal was that Castro would supply Ruby with a flow of drugs.
Ruby would get the money to buy the drugs by being given the :
winning number in the bolito drawing. That's how Ruby would be
paid off..

ewhen Cuban exile got letter some CIA agents found out about it, but
“tbefore they could get it from him, he made contact with the FBI here
in Miami and he turned over the fetter to agents from the Mlami.FBI
office. They advised him that it was.a very delicate situation and
not tell anyone about it,

HW 50955 -Docld: 32264840 Page 2°

 
180-10112-10466)

 

nnn nnn

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

. AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
“RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

_ DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

., . COMMENTS :

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

Mw 40955 Docld:32264840 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10112-10466

NUMBERED FILES

015106

Document Information

CIA

06/25/1976
25

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
STURGIS, FRANK, BACKGROUND ©
CIA, INTELLIGENCE

NOTES
Unclassified
3

* Redact

01/01/2003

NOTES FROM 6-25-76 - 9/21/77. BOX 296.
 

Sturgis doesn't know name of Cuban exile, but he worked in a factory
in. Miami or Hialeah, He's going to try to find out, he's checking
on it now.

The friend he ran into, the guy with the Company, was the one who
told him Tarabochia had this information.

Sturgis says the background is this: Ruby had gone to Cuba many
times and while he was there he was trying to get some action
because "McWillie was a friend of his, as you know." (NOTE: In.
interview with Canfield in Coup d'tat, Sturgis has a tough time
rapambering who McWillie is page 243). This is where Ruby
Probably thought @ up the idea-of making a deal with Castro.
“We all know he had criminal connections." There should. be
“some record of his trip through the American Embassy in
Mexico City of his trip to Cuba through there. "But this could:
have been a secret &xR trip he went on, on the other hand, if.
he was involved aa in an assassination," me

 

 

He doesn't know how long after the assassination the Cuban exile.
got the letter from his half-brother. (I+ probably came via Mexico) -
Sturgis: "This man here like to had a shit hemorrhage."

(Coincidence?:. From Robert Morrow's Betrayal: "Not to be vulgar,”
| thought aloud, "but he'll have a shit hemorrhage." Morrow was

speaking of Castro's reaction to his counterféét operation.)

(l asked him about Crile's piece in the Wash. Post re the Castro-
Trafficante relationship)

Sturgis says that's news to him. But he doesn't believe it
because Castro kicked out the mob and Lansky and Trafficante

tost their casinos. "| told Santos one day, | said, 'Santos,
de just kekxa left a meeting with Castro and he ordered me to ;
“close down the casinos for 10 days." And he did. Sturgis was

put in charge of casinos for a while by Gastro.

Sturgis believes if that was the case, that would make Afeman an
vagent for Castro also. But if he did make contact with Trafficante
“+ was through Rolando Martinez, because he knew Trafficante

very well, he used to work for the Havana Hilton, so he knows

all xe the mob people, "He knows them as wel! as |} do."

‘Aleman and Martinez are waxyoke very close friends.

‘Barker got fired from the CIA because of his connections with the
~racket people.

 

HW 50955. Docld:32264840 Page 3 |
 

“Sturgis - 6/30/76 ~- tatel

--says Tarabochia should remember Castro-Ruby incident because

"y know theCtA agent, or former agent, who. told him about it."
-thinks the woman he mentioned as being at the meeting was Tanya, -
Che's secretary who was killed witth him in Bolivia..

-also trying to get name of Cuban exite in Miami who received
the fetter

~-his ex-ClA friend spoke to Tarabochia- about it at the time and
perhaps Tarabochia wk should. have it on record...

it should also be part of +he FBI files in Washington, along
with the original letter... ‘

-CIA should have a report in too, "We sent the report in." ***

 

-~-re Cellula Fantasma: (Was that Company operation or Naval
Intelligence operation?), "No, Company operation." -The people
‘who were involved. in that were Dr.’ Louis Conte-Aquerra (sp?);
he asked my assistance and |-went to see my CO, who was

Sam denis. Conte-Aquerra was associated with the Company and

 

they came to me because they knew t was about the wm only one

who could do successful air operations. So they asked me

if | would do a series ot five air operations and | said, certainty,
| would...

(re 1 heard of the relationship “xk of Jukio Lobo and his
anti-Castro activity. | understand. Bill Attwood went down
to interview him and... ;

"weft, Bill was with the Company. «+. No, wait a minute, wait
a minute... Attwood, Attwood...! forget...1 think he was with
the Company...!'m not sure offhand...! didntt know all the agents."

(Wasnit it Rojas in charge of Celluta Fantasma?) Conte-Aquerra

was the big man on it. He's the one who arranged for the :
financing for the people +hat | would do the operation for...

As a matter of fact, | went on three of them myself..t couldn't
‘get the Cubans to do it so } used Americans. One of the pidots” °

was Bill! Johnson..)

(What was Rojas! role?) | didn't fool around with;Rojas.. You know,
there was a movement within CIA which told Conte-Aquerra that he |
vas going to be a big official in the new government. And many of
the agents who were also going to get positions went along with :
“the idea that Conte Aquerra would be the president of the new Cuba.
And he was being financed through his own CIA contacts to do a
series of these operations

(How does Lobo fit in?) Yell, Julio gave money. He was working
calso with CIA. He was giving money which he was taking off: income
“tax and so forth. This was the way what you'd call “washigg" money.
‘This is how CIA would wash money through different Cuban business
people--and American businessmen--which wouldn't tead directly

to. the CIA. Julio Lobo was one of the peop!te. .

 

 

Do 50955 Docld:32264840 . Page 4

 
