: SECRET o 6

(1) Adopt adequate internal security legislation
to provide severe penalties for any person engaging
in dissemination of Cuban-Communist propaganda
which inspires terrorism or proposes the overthrow
of the legal government by foree and violence,

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates at Of.
international meetings held in Latin América.
(Delegates are propaganda disseminators,

2. Intelligence Actions

ae Continue U.S. intelligence efforts in each :
country to identify individuals, organizations and a
facilities involved in propaganda importation,
reproduction and/or dissemination; make available to
each country selected intelligence concerning these
individuals, organizations and their activities..

b. Encourage each country in which the Communist ;
Party is illegal to offer rewards for information Ch
leading to interception of Castro+Communist propa~
ganda and, in countries where the Communist party ta
legal, for conviction of persons supplying or.
disseminating propaganda materials considered dan
gerous to the country's tranquility.

é¢. In separate diplomatic approaches to. each vee
country, urge full and effective cooperation, with CHR
the appropriate organs of the OAS and bilaterally
among the several nations, in the interchange of
information concerning movement of propaganda
materials.

d. Persuade Latin American countries to report
promptly to the diplomatic mission.of the country CR
concerned; the identity of any national of that
country who arrives from Cuba and who is discovered ©
to have been carrying Communist propaganda materials.

3. Covert Actions
a. Disrupt the reproduction and distribution of

propaganda materials, and the procurement and delivery
of related supplies and equipment.

SECRET 5

HW 50955 Docid:32423824 Page 9
@ @

SECRET

bs Seek opportunities to induce Latin American
printing craftsmen to deface, destroy, or misprint
Castro-Communist propaganda in the process of re-
production,

c. Disrupt Castro-Communist sponsored labor and rt
youth congresses, industrial and agricultural
exhibits in Latin American countries. Pe

-d. Maintain or increase pressures on media owners,
local advertising agencies and film producers and/or
distributors who accept Communist materials.

e. Dissuade U.S. and local business firms from “4
advertising.in Latin American media which tarry pro- .
Communist materials; prepare-and—cisculatalto U.S. rt
firms, for information, lists of such media in order.
to encourage their support of a non-Communist press.

f. Inhibit the spread of Cuban and Bloe¢ pinational
centers and Friendship Secieties in Latin America: by
an active program to expose their subversive activities
and objectives.

   

‘rovide financial support to selected non- . (a

to compete with Communist-aligned publications which
have significant circulation or impact.

h. Induce Latin American countries to organize
surveillance over in-country sources of newsprint

and related supplies, and deny or inhibit the use

of thesé supplies for printing Communist materials.

Direct Actions to Impede Ille al Movement of
Propaganda Material

Many of the actions outlined in Section III related
to the legal movement of materials will serve also to
restrict illegal movement. Additienal measures designed
specifically to impede clandestine traffic are enumerated
below,

 

SECRET 6

HW 50955 DocId:32423824 Page 10
   
 
  

SECRET a ®

 

Films

 

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the
Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art and Industry. play a
direct propaganda role. These films are shown primarily in
binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student groups,
and in private or clandestine meetings.

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin
America is the target of a bread-scale propaganda program,
comprising not only propaganda materials but including
also the ideas, the knowledge and the resources which are
necessary to maké those materials effective,

Tit. Direct Actions to Impede the Legal Movement of
Propaganda Materials

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated
to impede the legal movement of propaganda materials from
Cuba to and within Latin American countries. For the pur-
pose of this paper, legal movement is defined as movement
by recognized private and governmental carriers and communi-
cations, as well as postal systems and diplomatic peuching.

These actions offer promise of achieving early and
effective results in some Latin American countries, but
they do not have universal application, and those which may
be feasible in one country may not be necessary or feasible
in another,

- 1, Political Actions
spape in-_count is ed rensa
@;

demybeer in Lh, Gorter Muorhebo

b. Persuade those governments which receive Cuban
and Bloc diplomatic missions to maintain close

 

tr

surveillance over the propaganda activities of the CR

Communist embassies with a view toward prohibiting
abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive pur-
poses;

ec. AS applicable and feasible, induce Latin
American countries to:

SECRET 4

HW 50955 Docild:32423824 Page 8
SECRET

Every Latin American country except the Dominican
Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua, and Venezuela permits
these bookshops to operate. Many of them offer publi-
cations at very low prices or give away several books
with the purchase of one, and easy credit terms are
available.

. Excluding TASS and the New China News Agency (NCNA),
Prensa. Latina is the principal Communist news agency in
Tatin America. It operates openly, although not entirely
without restriction, in ten countries -- Bolivia, Brazil,
Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico,
Panama and Uruguay. While most users of Prensa Latina
releases are covert or overt Communists, some non-Communist
media make unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases.
This. is especially true of radio broadcasts.

 

 

All of this publication activity is essentially
overt. However, decrees banning Communist propaganda
have not prevented the clandestine publications and distri-
pution of periodicals and books in some countries, and
propaganda materials continue to seek entry through the
mails. In Panama, for example, postal and customs authori-
ties destroy .an.average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda per
month, -Another.ten.tons per month is seized and. destroyed
in Costa Rica. This suggests the further quantities, per-
haps larger, may be finding their way into these and other
countries.

Radio

Short wave radio, is the principal direct mass audience
medium used by Cuba to carry subversive propaganda to Latin
America. The Castro regime has constantly increased Radio
Havana's: short wave. broadcasts to Latin America to a current
level of 115:30 hours per week.

 

Cultural Activities
Penetration under the guise of cultural activities is
a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America,

where there are now some 64 Cuban binational centers and
Friendship. Societies.

SECRET 3

HW 50955 Docld:32423824 Page 7?
HW 50955

CUBA

SECRET

 

 

MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
I, Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede
the movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba
to and within Latin American countries. They complement
the basic actions relating to control of movement of. sub-
versive trainees to and from Cuba, which actions are gen-
erally applicable in the solution of this problem as well.
As in the companion measures for control of the movement
of subversive trainees, successful execution of the actions
proposed below will reduce the flow of propaganda materials
but will not eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through
which propaganda materials flow. As these legitimate-
outlets are blocked by the initial steps herein proposéd,
it will be necessary for the Cuban propagandists and their
sympathizers elsewhere to turn from the mass exportation
of materials to the production and dissemination of the
same materials in a clandestine environment within the
several Latin American countries. Of the two threats, the
illicit production of propaganda materials in each country
will be by far the more difficult to abate.

In combatting these threats, one of the most power-
ful factors is the influence of our own information and
counter-propaganda efforts, which USIA and CIA have in-
creased greatly during the past two years. This paper,

' however, is concerned wholly with direct actions; actions

designed to impede the movement of propaganda materials
to and within Latin America.

Tr. Nature and. Scope of the Problem

 

While the Castro image has faded somewhat in Latin
America, and the attraction of Cuba as a model has dimin-
ished, the susceptibility of the Latin American people to
communist propaganda remains high. The basic social and
economic factors which have made this true in the past
have not greatly altered, and the variety and quantity of
propaganda materials with which the Latin Americans are
now beset are ffnpressive, as exemplified in the ere ;
duet hilliong lars which the communists are estimated to ~
be investing “in the:project annually. It is a large pro-
gram and it presents a continuing threat to the tran-
quility of Latin America.

SECRET

Docld:324238274 Page 5
) 6
SECRET

Our efforts to combat the problem, moreover, are
complicated by the fact that freedom of thought, express-
ion and press are generally highly regarded in Latin
America, albeit not.universally honored, and any proposals
to. reduce the flow of Castro~Communist subversive materials
must. be influenced by this fact. Otherwise the United
States may find itself indicted for fostering police-
state methods, a charge which could alienate many of the
Latin Americans we seek to influence. | :

For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials
include radio program scripts, tapes and récordings, printed
materials, (posters, pamphlets, magazines, leaflets, books,
newspapers, news service output), motion pictures, dupli-
cating or reproducing equipment, electronic communications
equipment, and printing resources, particularly paper stock-
piles.

However, to be complete, "movement of propaganda
materials" must extend also to publications whtth are hand-.
carried into a country by legal or illegal travellers for
subsequent reproduction. It must also include materials
transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic
channels, shipments via postal channels, quantities intro-
duced through smuggling operations, oral transmission of
propaganda guidance. by individual travellers or by Radio
Havana, and the dissemination of communist oriented news
by Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news agency, for re-
production by local outlets. Finally to be ‘considered are
thematic guidance, which can be reproduced and exploited
locally by returning trainees, front groups and sympathetic
publications and, in some countries such as Mexico, Argen~
tina and Uruguay, the products of those commercial estab-
lishments which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro-
Communist materials as a matter of policy or ideological
conviction.

Press and Publications,

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers
and periodicals in Latin America, and infiltration of the
democratic press, coupled with the non-critical attitudes
of some. newspapermen, increases greatly the diffusion of
the Cuban propaganda line. There are 228 Communist-oriented
publishing houses and bookstores in Latin America, serving
as outlets not only for 30 different Cuban periodicals, but
for a large variety of other Communist printed material.

SECRET 2

HW 50955 Docld:32423824 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

324233824 Page 2

HW 50955 DoclId
198-10006-10009

 

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

 

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10006-10009
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document information
ORIGINATOR: JCS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CUBA - THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS
DATE: — 03/00/1963
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS :
COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA
CUBAN SUBVERSION
PROPAGANDA MEDIA
KRULAK COMMITTEE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Krulak Committee's paper on the movement of Cuban propaganda.

 

16

R J TION

~ evi he NO STATE OBJEC

N F KK . TOD! easy

nt of the Army EO 13526 BY 5

ol pedlassity a Exclude =! Exempt

Authority,

I Refer To .

Review So sfroppare Rat NO STARE.
TO DECLASSIFICATION On
pare___MAR 2016 _

 

HW 50955 DBocld:32423624 Page i
Mie CALIFANO MARKED
@ : @olk From is MAL
SECRET a WTG ye?

CUBA
THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

GROUP-1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
SECRET DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

HW 50955 DocId:32423824 Page 3
SECRET

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Ie Introduction - -------.------+
TI. Nature and Scope of the Problem - - = =

III. Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement
of Propaganda Materials- - - ----- -

1. Political Actions - ~-----+--+- -
2. Intelligence Actions --------
3. Covert Actions ----+-+------

IV. Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement
of Propaganda Materials --------

l. Intelligence Actions - =---+--+-+-+--
@. Surveillance and Reporting Action - -
3. Political Action - ---+-+-+-+--+-
4

. Technical Assistance Actions - - - -

 

SECRET

HW 50955 DociId:32423824 Page 4
