 

Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT). Members of the SCIAIT
accompanied by a representative from the staff of Commander U. S.
Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) have completed an. in-
country evaluation of 40-foot Coast Guard Utility Boats (CGUBs) in
five Central American countries and a detailed program through
mid-November has been prepared for improving the material readiness
and handling of, the CGUBs provided by.MAP. Action is underway to
expedite delivery of spare parts required for maintenance of the
boats.

COMUSNAVSO has now initiated a request to establish SCIATT
billets with permanent personnel for an initial period of three
years in order to fully develop the Central American CGUB program.
The success of this program would be a major contribution to the
Caribbean Surveillance System. U.S. Commander in Chief, Southern
Command (USCINCSO) has recommended approval of COMUSNAVSO's request
to CNO and action is being coordinated with OSD/ISA, JCS and USCG
to obtain approval and appropriate funding for permanent billets.

The 40-foot CGUB permanently assigned to the U. S. Naval
Station, Rodman, Canal Zone, for use by the SCIATT has been
delivered and is in the process of being activated.

G. Continued efforts . to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14
latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

He Continued, through its intelligence agencies, work on
studies. concerning Castro/Communist subversion directed against
latin America. :

I. Increased to 12 the number of Latin American countries in

which there are intelligence exchange arrangements between U. S.
and local military services.

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 9
HW 50955

SECRET

3. The Central Intelligence Agenc ;

 

A. Completed efforts to improve U.S. government communica-~
tions in Latin America by the installation of the remaining
two commercial leased circuits into Guatemala City and
Managua, and the stationing on a permanent basis of CIA
radio operators in Latin America in replacement of temporary
duty_personnel. In November 1962, CIA's active radio facilities
int ~lLatin American capitals were augmented with on-line
cryptographic facilities and temporary personnel to handle the
bulk of all U.S. government communications in the area. These
facilities, known as Joint Communications Centers, are now
being operated by CIA on a 24-hour basis, as a service to
all U.S. government agencies. Latin American traffic handled
by the CIA base radio station near Washington has increased
from 3,000,000 groups handled in October 1962 to 15,000,000
groups handled in March 1963.

 

 

 

 

B. Increased its efforts designed to control the movement
of persons, arms and propaganda materials to and from Cuba. A

summary of actions by country follows:

1. Argentina - Station, in conjunction with the Embassy,
has continued to press the Argentine government to enact
effective travel control legislation and to adopt measures
recommended by the Special Consultative Committee on Security
of the OAS. Information on Argentines travelling to Cuba is
being furnished to the Argentine government by the station.
Several potential travellers to Cuba have been spotted and
are being assessed by the station. Information from three
recent returnees from Cuba is being obtained through debriefings.
Station reports that because of increased Mexican controls,
all truly clandestine travel to Cuba from Argentina is now
via Prague. has informed the
station that mail censorship and customs controls at the
docks and airports are 95% effective in preventing the
entrance of Cuban propaganda through these channels. Local
dissemination of propaganda is regulated by an Argentine
inter-agency committee, which reviews any new propaganda
items and takes action to stop dissemination of any item
judged to be pro-Cuban or pro-Communist. During May the
Argentine government issued a new decree which restricts
Communist_activities cee Ne urge’ The station has continued

 

 

 

 

 

 

to press. to urge regulation of travel

to Cuba, but the adoption of such measures has been delayed
pending government receipt on an official basis of the OAS
recommendations. Through several assets the station is working
on leads which it is hoped will reveal the basic sources of
illegal arms sales in Argentina.

 

SECRET

Docld:324274015 Page 10
SECRET

2. The Department of Defense:

A, Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba at
the same rate and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that
date. Between 25 April and 23 May 1963 additional sea surveillance
was realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the stationing of the
Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance of the Gulf of
Gonaives occasioned by the deterioration of internal conditions in
Haiti. :

B. Continued the installation of military communications
facilities in latin America, Due to noncommunication difficulties,
the multi-channel radio station scheduled for installation at
Managua, Nicaragua by 1 July 1963 will be completed on or about
27 July 1963. Entry negotiations have been completed with Honduras,
with the nilitary radio facilities installation scheduled for com=
pletion on or about'10 October 1963, Negotiations are continuing
in Colombia and Ecuador for the installation of military radio
facilities. .

C, Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U. S,. forces,
reporting as before, to U. S. commanders, organizations and
agencies, Reports of subversive movement, obtained by U.S.
surveillance have been made available for immediate transmittal

. through U. S. military alerting system,

D,. Reached agreement with CIA on steps te be taken to prevent
duplication of effort in operating a U.S. military alerting system
and furnished guidance on this matter to USCINCSO and CINCLANT,
After clarification of the role of the U. S. Military Groups by
USCINCSO the military alerting system was again placed in operation
effective 15 June 1963.

E. Maintained U. 5. forces, for the most part from within
the Atlantic Command, available to respond to assist in the final
interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, upon the
request of the country concerned. Currently, forees are assigned
by the United Commander involved to meet the singular problem
encountered. In somewhat similar circumstances, U.S, forces of
Atlantic Command have responded to this requirement in the cases
of the Venezuelan ship ANZOATEGUI and the Italian ship CANNA REGIA,

F. Had the U. S. Coast Guard Mobile Training Team (MTT) report
for duty in the Canal Zone on 15 May 1963 to perform as a Small

SECRET

 

HW 50955 DBocld:32424015 Page 6
SECRET

‘R. Informed the Mexican Government that Americans
were not permitted to travel to Cuba without authorization
.and requested their assistance in preventing U.S. citizens ..
‘from transiting Mexico enrotite to’ Cuba.

‘S. Instructed posts in Latin America to encourage
host governments to take appropriate measures to dis-
courage participation of their nationals in Cuba's
May Day celebrations, and to prevent charter flights
from their country to Cuba for. the celebration.

T. Informed affected governments of the names
of their nationals who had returned from Cuba on the
Cuban plane which flew the new Cuban Ambassador and
vhis party to Bragil, and suggested that they take
“this matter up with Brazil. Also called this Cuban
action to the attention of the Brazilian Government.

U. Worked through Chilean Government and university.
circles to block the holding of the Communist-inspired
II Latin American Youth Congress scheduled for Santiago,
Chile in August 1963.

V. Encouraged the President of Honduras to have
his immigration officials request clearance from our
Embassy in Tegucigalpa before granting visas to Cubans
wishing to enter Honduras from Cuba.

W. Encouraged the Benelux and Italian Governments
to maintain visa requirements for Cubans travelling
to their countries despite Cuba's having done away
Laeaal visa requirements for their nationals who. visit
uba

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 7
SECRET

1. The Department of State:

A. Participated in the preparations for and the
holding of the Managua meeting on subversion, which was
held April 3-4, ;

B. Headed an inter-departmental team which visited
the Isthmian countries to encourage implementation of the
recommendations for curbing subversion which were agreed
on at the Managua meeting.

C. Prepared a report on the inter-departmental
team's suvery of the Central American countries,
containing recommendations for further action in this
field, and advised affected U. S. agencies and foreign
service posts of the guidelines for operation of the
military alerting system.

D. Worked in thé OAS in drafting a report containing
practical recommendations to counteract Castro/communist
subversion in the fields of the movement of travel,
propaganda and funds, and prepared the ground for a
COAS decision to transmit the report to member Governments
urging them to implement the recommendations contained
therein. ve .

E. Drew official and public attention in Latin
American countries to the capture of Peruvians who were |
peturning from Habana ‘by an overland route through
Bolivia, and urged the Peruvian Government to make details
of this case known to the OAS.

F. Helped publicize the capture of .an Ecuadoran
subversive who was returning to Ecuador from -Cuba by
way of Prague with $25,000 in cash on -his person, and
Tequested the Ecuadoran Government ‘to make an official

‘ report of this matter to the OAS.

G. Sent a U.S. Consul to Gran Cayman to investigate
Cuban flights to that island, and secured the cooperation
of the Costa Rican Government in preventing the use of
LACSA aircraft to transport subversives to San Jose
off-landed in Gran Cayman.

H. Approached the British Government various times
to seek its cooperation in preventing the use-of Gran

*

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32424015 Page 5
SECRET

Cayman and its other Caribbean possessions as traffic
refueling or transit stops for planes flying to and -
from Cuba. a

I. Continued pressure on the Dutch Government
and KIM airline officials not to resume KLM flights
to Cuba, thus limiting the access to Cuba by Free World
airlines. ‘

-.: ods Obtained the cooperation of CMA airline
(Mexico) to keep its mail and cargo flights to Cuba
on an unscheduled basis and to avoid carrying
passengers on the Habana-Mexico City leg of its.
service. ;

K. Continued efforts with the Canadian and
Mexican Governments to secure their cooperation
in preventing Cubans from introducing Russian IL-
18's on flights between Habana and their countries.

L. Urged the Brazilian Government not to grant
landing rights for Soviet Bloc or Cuban planes servicing
Cuba, and continued efforts to keep Brazil from signing
a civil air agreement with Cuba. : -

M. Sought cooperation of various African Govern-
ments in preventing the usé of African airports as
transit points for regular USSR-Cuba air service with
TU-11¥'s or as refueling stops for ferrying IL-18's
to Cuba. .

N. Initiated action to request US-owned and
controlled oil companies in the Caribbean and Latin
America to refuse bunkers voluntarily to vessels and
aircraft in the Cuba trade. .

0. ‘Requested the Spanish Government to limit or
eliminate service to Cuba by Iberia airlines and
Spanish shipping companies. °

P. Blocked initiation of an ocean ferry service
between Habana and Florida by employing various delaying
and obstructing tactics.

Q. Ordered, as of April 1, that all U.S. passports
be marked snot valid for travel to Cuba to insure that
ban on travel to Cuba would be more effectively enforced.

SECRET
HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 6
 

SECRET

Suby 18, 1969

 

MEMORANDUM BO. #9 $0 GESURAL ARLE G. © HUELES. (362)
APRA EB ZUMWALM, ah, , BSN (oan)
& GCONESAD 3. T. ALES, USA
ERR VW. WENT, USN
MAIOR GEMERAL, 5, @, GARPRETER, BL, Baar
BRIGADIER CLE RAL M, M, BLWOOR, WEMG

   

 
 
 

SOBIECT: 3 at Cuban Affeire:

od Actions Vesigued te

Counter Subversion te

Beterences: -. feedemy meme, ask TOCA: Movement of Gubverciver.
aud Gubversive Sralsecs, dated 12 Mar 63.
& Upec Agel te Sechemy memo, gubf IOCOLA: Regert on
and Meteo of apglomentwticn of Antone Appeared by The

: » dated 20 Mawr 63.

& Sgee Adet ie fac damy meme, awh: LOCOCA: Report on

‘the Gtetus of Actions dipprewed by the mediums dated

 
  

   

ao for $3,
& Spee Anct te SenAgrmy some, antes IGCOCA: epee Ga,
Stetas of legh on af Actions Dogigned te Counter

fubvereiun, 27 Fan 63,

Attached hemewlth ie a fuel dvadt of the Bepart te the Brasident of
the Uubcomenitios om Cubes Subversios on Progress Meds Dutiag the figeii~
Jane Period in Curbing Culan Sybversion io Lathe Americe.

 

i2 te pequested (iat comereeute, Uf any, he provided thle efier by
1200 Xouwe, 22 Fuly 1960, The Depastecent af Defense portion of subject
eogort is based oe gabmiesiens furclshed In ewepenes to relewence d.,

OSA ASB Conti Nog 3 ag

 

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING
SECRET DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

Lele ae rn st tee ee ec -— =

HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 2

 

uL
 

 

198-10007-10022

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TIPLE:

e

DATE:
PAGES: ~

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

6/24/201

 

Agency Information

ARMY
198-10007-10022

CALIFANO PAPERS

 

 

 

Document Information

ARMY
JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
ICCCA

ICCCA: REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER
SUBVERSION

07/18/1963
17

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

IB; 4

Redact

04/08/1998

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 26. Memo from Califano to ICCCA re: the Report on the Status of
Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion. Also appears in Califano Box 6, Folder
Ul.

UF K Leoview

Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify “1 Exclude ©! Exempt
Authority.

& Refer To 1. fn
Review Date By_ £-<o"

 

 

31

HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page i
 

SECRET .

wa rongreue Rewgite ill be premeed an
aca = Servet geen seas

    

 

i
1
Signed

| Joseph A. Califano,Jr.
| :
| Josaph A. Califeas, Je.
| fittoctenent

fe Mated:

ec: Mr, Yarmolinsky (OSD)

i
| Mr. Califano Ty. icitas
Lt Col Haig SS
| ASG

 

 

SECRET

HW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 3

 
SECRET

REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
ON PROGRESS MADE DURING APRIL-JUNE PERIOD:

IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA:

SECRET

Usa, ASG Control No.7 GZ

HW 50955 Docid:32424015 Page 4
