 

   

Mr. Bundy said thac he had no worries about

 
 

any such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result

of local Cuban disaffection or hm but chat we must

. @vold external activities such a

     
 
 

  

     
   
  
   
 
    
   
  
 

~ +4 fe ; all
~~ <3. A suggestion was made chat small explosives or incendiaries which
could be distributed co Cubans should. be infiltrated. General Carter
explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can

, be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinatic

 

to use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

 

7. The Actorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against

exiles whe undertake active operations on their own are contemplaced.

8. Tt was suggested that the possibilities of counterfeiting be looked

into further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how
much lacitwde would be allowed the operating elements of the government,
within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it- would not be
a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great

degree.

“y

10, Mr. Bumdy them raised the basic question of the entire spectrum

Af oAthae one .

 
 

 

HAA BREA nmert wend te nh MANT ONE R:

   

 
 

  
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
    
 
   
  

f. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all

Cuban exile groups (number 48) is impractical, ‘The word was changed

 

to selected. ;
gs Mr. Martin cautioned that results ef number 50 (actions to”

_ be undertaken by other Hemisphere goverments) would not. be expected

overnian

    
   
 

be as latitude
in working up other eption poseibilities) | Mr Bundy felt, on the :
other: hand, that particularly because of “a possible Cuban counter

. teasuras which had been outlined by Mr. Murrow, the Group should look
at other possibilities in some detail,

i. General Carter felt that a determination should be made | as

 

to how far the U.S. is prepared to go in, economic. harrassing

He emphasized that. sabotage operations such as those. under number: 27

 

   
 
  

will not in themselves be especially effective’ in: neck

som Pedodet bacvqhang

7 Group then turned to a discussion of number 32/0

wabotage). General Carter emphasized the extreme sensitivity of any

   

 

 

such operation and the disastrous results that would flow from some- ©

 
    

thing going wrong, particularly if there were obvious attribution co”

    
 

the U.S. He wenre on to say, however, thac it would be possible to.

     

*

accomplish this purpose by methods. more subcle chan those indicated in

   

 

   

the paper. He mentioned specifically the possibility of

    

 

NW 50955 -Docld:32424918 Page 2?

   

 
 

  
 
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

 

202-40001-10187]

a. a S ; Ae Date : 08/28/98

 

Page : 1)
JPK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001~10187
-RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES
“AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 188
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : OSD.
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP ON. MONGOOSE 6
SEP 62 ;
DATE : 09/06/62
PAGES .: 5

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT ‘TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSTPICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
; ; CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA -:
COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA and State.

NOMOINT STAFF ORJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

pare: YL

 

Docld:32424918 Page 1

 
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

  
 

Mr. Bundy said that he had no worries about

 

 

any such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result

  
    
  

 

   

of local Cuban disaffection or of

 

but that we must. :

 

 

 

  
  

, avoid external activities such ag

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

an,

 

A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiaries which
' could be distributed. to Cubans should be infilprated. General Carter

explained thae the problem is not one of such supplies, since they’ can

 

, be easily improvised, but rather that the people have. shown: no Apeitoney

tO use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

oot

Tt was suggested that the matter of attacking and herragsing of

   
  
 

S6vTet personel within Cuba should be considered pif :

   

7. The Attorney General and Mr, Bundy said “that no reprisals against

 

 

exiles whe undertake active operations on their own ave contemplated.

&. Tt was suggested thar the possibilities of counterfeiting be Looke

into further.

a. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how
much lavicude would be allowed the operating elements of the government |
within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that ir would not be:
a simple matter co delegate responsibilities of this kind co any great i:

degree.

10. Mr. Bumdy chen raised the basic question of the entire spectrum ;

Fe bebe ck REARS

  

AE ee me Fe de RA ak ee

    

HW 50955. Docdd: 32424918 Page 3

     
 

oe

7

    
    
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
     
 
 

f£. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all
Cuban exile groups (number 48) 1s impractical. The word was changed

to selected.

 

g Mr. Martin cautioned that resulta of number 59 (actions to

be undertaken by other Hemisphere governments) would not be expected

  

overnight <

 

enetal Carter urged that, in conumection wit

| General Lansdale s be given”nore Llaticude

   
 
 

in working up other -#é@eption possibilities’) Mr. Bundy felt, on the

other hand, that particularly beacause of Che possible Cuban counter-
measures which had been outlined by Mr. Murrow, the Group should look
at other possibilities in sowe detail.

de General Carter felc that a datermination should be made as
to how far the U.S. is prepared to geo in, economic harrassing actions.

He emphasized that sabotage operations such as those under number 27

will not in themselves be especiaily effective in

Peart bhowyn
The Group then turned to a discussion of number pene . ;

General Catter emphasized the extreme sensitivity of any

recking the Cuban

economy,

 
 
    
   
   
  
    

  

such operation and the disastrous results that would flow from some-

thing going wrong, particularly if there were obvious attribution to

   

 

the U.S, He went on to say, however, that ic would be possible to

 

   
   

.

accomplish this purpose by methods more subtle than those indicated in

the paper. He mentioned specifically the possibility og

 

 
