HW 49061

Ee
c

 

VERIFICATION ANNEX
Part I. Verification Procedure for the Original Parties
Article I

1. Three months before the coming into force of this Treaty,
each of the Original Parties shall submit to the other Original Parties
a declaration listing all facilities located at any place under its
jurisdiction or control which are engaged in the production of:

a. strategic delivery vehicles;
b. anti-missile missile systems; or
ce. fissionable materials for use in weapons.

2. Each of the Original Parties shall also include in the
declaration a list of all facilities located at any place under its
jurisdiction or control which, whether or not currently engaged in the
production of such vehicles, systems or materials, have been engaged
therein at any time during the five years preceding the coming into
force of this Treaty.

3. The declaration shall contain a general description of each
facility listed, and shall give its exact location.

Article IT

1. For purposes of verification, France, the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States shall be
considered as one "Verifying Party", and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics shall be considered as the other "Verifying Party."

2. Upon the coming into force of this Treaty, each of the two
Verifying Parties shall be entitled to verify the implementation of this
Treaty by the other Party.

Article III

1. Inspectors of one Verifying Party shall be entitled to verify
on a continuous basis whether a declared facility of the other Party

‘which is no longer producing any of the items specified in Article I has

not resumed their production. Where the danger of such resumption is small,
periodic inspection may, at the discretion of the inspections, be
substituted for continuous one.

2. In facilities engaged in the production of missiles to the extent

authorized by this Treaty, the inspectors shall be entitled. to verify on
a continuous basis that the production does not exceed the: authorized limits.

4, SENSITIVE

 

DocId:32626311 Page 5
de

 

SENSITIVE

For this purpose, they shall be entitled to watch the assembly lines
for missiles, as a whole, for major subassemblies and for rocket motors.

3. In facilities engaged in the production of fissionable materials
for power, propulsion and other peaceful uses, the inspectors shall be
entitled to verify on a continuous basis that no materials are being
diverted for use in weapons. Where the productive capacity of a
facility is small, periodic inspection may, at the discretion of the
inspectors, be substituted for continuous one.

Article IV

1. In each calendar year, each of the two Verifying Parties shall
be entitled to six special inspections for the purpose of verifying
that a non-declared facility is not engaged in the production of items
the production of which is halted or limited by this Treaty.

* 2. The inspected Party shall have the option in each case either
to allow the Verifying Party to inspect the inside of the main buildings
of the facility, or to permit the establishment of check points around
the facility in order to inspect for a period not exceeding twelve months
all the shipments to and from the facility. If the facility is suspected
or producing fissionable materials and the inspection is limited to the
outside of the facility, the inspectors shall be permitted to sample
from time to time the soil around the main buildings or the facility,
the smoke from its smoke stacks and the water flowing from it.

?

Article V

1. The Parties to this Treaty shall adopt such internal
legislation and administrative measures as may be necessary to enable
the inspecto¥s to perform their duties in an effective manner.

2. In conducting inspections, the inspectors shall have due
regard for all rights of personal privacy and private property, taking
into consideration the laws and customs of the inspected Party to the
fullest extent consistent with their duties.

* The clause is framed in this manner because théamimmbkemt any greater
rights would infringe the property rights of U.S. citizens and corp-
orations, having no business with the U.S. givernment. We can grant
access to government facilities and facilities utilized under government
contract but not private facilities. (Reference, written legal opinion
of OSD Counsel)

as,

 

AW 49061 DocId:32626311 Page 6
HW 49061

EXEMRT hue OL: nade sel & Woe

oe * of SITE

a
Ne

  

( Ch

Treaty

limiting the Production of Strategic Delivery Vehicles, Anti-missile
Missile Systems and Fissionable Materials

The Governments of France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
United States of America, hereinafter referred to as the "Original
Parties",

Wishing to take the first step toward achieving in the speediest
possible manner an agreement on general and complete disarmament under
strict international control in accordance with the objectives of the
United Nations, and

Desiring to put an end to the armaments race,
Have agreed as follows:

Article I

1. Each of the Parties to this Treaty undertakes to
halt the production at any place under its jurisdiction or control
“of:
a. Strategic delivery vehicles enumerated in an annex to
this Treaty;

b. Anti-missile missile systems; and

ce. Fissionable materials for use in nuclear weapons.

2. In order to replace missiles lost through accident or ex-
pended in test firing, each of the Parties shall be permitted to
produce missiles of the same type as the lost or expended missiles,
subject to the following restrictions:

a. The number of missiles to be produced during any
calendar year shall not exceed the number specified for each
type in an annex to this Treaty.

b. The number of missiles to be produced during any
month shall not exceed the number lost or expended during the
previous month. Adequate evidence of such loss or’. expenditure
shall be furnished to any other Original Party upon request.

Article II

1. The provisions of Article I apply only to the final
: assembly of strategic delivery vehicles. Manufacture of parts

GAP SECRE SENSITIVE

DocId: 326276311 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10207
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
\ FROM :
TO: :
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE :
PAGES :
_ SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : / :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 382: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63, item 4C.

Box 1

HW 49061 DocId:32626311 Page 1
HW 49061

  

for maintenance of existing strategic delivery vehicles shall

be permitted and old parts of such vehicles may be replaced by

new ones of the same type and character. Adequate evidence of such
loss or expenditure shall be furnished to any other original party
upon request.

2. The provisions of Article I apply only to fissionable
materials for use in nuclear weapons. Production of such

_ materials for power, propulsion and other peaceful uses shall

be permitted.
Article III

To ensure adequate verification of compliance with the provisions

of this Treaty, the Parties accept the arrangements set forth in the
annex on verification.

Article IV

1. This Treaty shall be subject to ratification by the
Original Parties, and shall come into force six months after
the date of exchange of ratifications.

2. This Treaty shall be registered by the Original Parties
with the Secretariat of the United Nations, pursuant to Article
102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

3. Upon its registration, the Treaty shall be open for
accession to all States. Instruments of accession shall be

' deposited with the Secretariat of the United Nations, which

shall promptly inform the Original Parties and all States having
acceded to this Treaty of the date of each accession. The

«Treaty shall enter into force for each acceding State six months

after the date of its accession.
Article V

1. This Treaty shall be of unlimited duration.

2. Hach Party shall have the right to withdraw from this
Treaty if it decides that extraordinary events, related to the
subject matter of this Treaty, have jeopardized the supreme
interests of its country. It shall give notice of such with-
drawal to all other Parties to this Treaty three months in
advance.

Article VI

1. The Original Parties shall consult from time to time
with respect to the implementation of this Treaty.

2. In particular, they shall consult if other militarily

SENSITIVE

 

DocId:32626311 Page 3
Hy

   

significant States do not accede to this Treaty within two
years after its coming into force or if a militarily
significant State gives notice of withdrawal from this Treaty.

Article VII
This Treaty, of which the English, French and Russien tests are
equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Original
Parties and in the archives of the United Nations. Duly certified
copies of this Treaty shall be transmitted to all States by the
Secretariat of the United Nations.

In witness whereof, the undersigned, duly authorized, have
signed this Treaty. oy,

Done in five. copies at » the day of ;
one thousand nine hundred and sixty . ‘

LBS:esm/13 September 1963

Woe secrep 4 SENSITIVE

AW 49061 DocId:32626311 Page 4
