DCI/OGC/RJE:ig 76105/ 15 Dec 1992
OGC-92-53256

Distribution:

- Addressee
- DO/IRO

- DI/IRO

- DS&T/IRO
- DA/IRO

- RJE Soft file
- OGC Chrono
- RJE Signer

PRR P PEPE PRP BEER
'
ia
Fs
fg

AW 53217 DocId:32404149 Page 7?
HW 53217

for a provision of the Internal Revenue Code dealing with
tax return information. This means the Act takes precedence
over 50 U.S.C. § 403(d) (3) and § 403g, as well as the
Privacy Act, when determining whether to release records
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The Act
also makes no provision for protecting information on the
basis of executive privilege, such as deliberative process
and attorney-client communications.

5. Certain categories of information may fall into more
than one of the grounds set forth in Section 6 of the Act. We
recommend that you review all of the grounds when determining
whether to release or withhold specific information. For
example, a human intelligence source may fall into grounds (1) (A)
("intelligence agent"), (1) (B) ("intelligence source"), (2)
("living person who provided confidential information to the
United States"), and/or (4) ("understanding of confidentiality
currently requiring protection between a Government agent and a
cooperating individual"). At this point, we do not know how the
Assassination Records Review Board will interpret each of these
grounds. Therefore, if you determine the standards of the Act
are met to permit withholding of certain information, you should
assert as many grounds as may arguably apply as authority for
that withholding.

6. Although the Act severely limits what information may be
withheld from disclosure, it may be possible to protect
information not expressly covered by the Act. However, such

“information may be withheld only with the personal authorization

of the President. When the President signed the Act, he issued a
statement that included the following:

My authority to protect [executive branch
deliberations, law enforcement information of the
executive branch, and national security information]
comes from the Constitution and cannot be limited by
statute. Although only the most extraordinary
circumstances would require postponement of the
disclosure of documents for reasons other than those
recognized in the bill, I cannot abdicate my
constitutional responsibility to take such action when
necessary. ed

7. The Act provides individuals the ability under the
Administrative Procedures Act to challenge in court final
decisions of the Assassination Records Board. We can expect,
then, court challenges to the Board's decisions to uphold any of
our determinations that certain information meets the criteria
for postponement of release. Additionally, as you know, there
are FOIA litigations for this same material. Plaintiff's counsel
has indicated in court pleadings and orally that he wants the
court to review our redactions not under FOIA standards, but
under the standards of the Act. Thus, you should apply the Act's,
standards ‘knowing your judgments may be questioned by the Board,’

4

DocId: 32404149 Page 5
subsequent court challenges to the Board's action, and the FOIA

cases.

8. If you have any questions concerning the application of
the Act to your review of the assassination records, please call

me on secure extension 76105.

 

| i
Robert J({ E ings, Jr.

HW 53217 DocId:32404149 Page 6
HW 53217

OGC-92-53256
14 December 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

VIA: W. George James ]
: Associate Genel ounsel
Litigation Divisioh, OGC
FROM: Robert J. Eatinger, Jr.

Assistant General Coungel
Litigation Division, OGC

SUBJECT: © ‘Declassification Guidelines Established by the
. President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

1. The enactment of the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 ("the Act") has
created declassification guidelines that are to some extent
different from the Historical Review Program guidelines
established by the Director of Central Intelligence. In the
continuing review of material related to the assassination of

President Kennedy, the guidelines established by the Act must be
used.

2. The Act's most fundamental changes are the burden it
creates on agencies to justify continued classification of
information, and a requirement that agencies balance the national
security concerns against the public interest. Under the Act,
information must be declassified unless a showing is made by
clear and convincing evidence that release of the information
would demonstrably impair the national security.

3. The Act's guidelines for declassification are found in
its Section 6 and are as follows:

Sec 6. GROUND FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF -
RECORDS. .

Disclosure of assassination records or particular
information in assassination records to the public may be
postponed subject to the limitations of this Act if there is
clear and convincing evidence that--

(1) the threat to the military defense,
intelligence operations, or conduct of foreign
relations of the United States posed by the public
‘disclosure of the assassination is of such gravity that

DocId: 32404149 Page 2
 

HW 53217

AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

‘ FROM
TO
TITLE

DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32404149 Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA

104-10331-10019

JEK

PROJFILES-CORRES PONDENCE

Released under the John
Kennedy
Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#:NU 53217 Date:

: 6

poor rr a brn r scr rrr csc rrr nrc cnsscnn b6-22-2017
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

CIA

ASST. GENERAL COUNSEL

CHIEF, HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP

MEMO: DECLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED BY THE
JFK ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992
12/14/1992

POSTPONEMENT
JFK ASSASSINATION
JEK ACT OF 92

PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
04/23/03

JFK-M-16 : Fl: 2000.02.07.14:05:17:857054

104-10331-10019
it outweighs the public interest, and such public
disclosure would reveal --

(A) an intelligence agent whose identity
currently requires protection;

(B) an intelligence source or method which
is currently utilized, by the United States
Government and which has not been officially
disclosed, the disclosure of which would interfere
with the conduct of intelligence activities; or

(C) Any other matter currently relating to
the military defense, intelligence operations or
conduct of foreign relations of the United States,
the disclosure of which would demonstrably impair
the national security of the United States;

(2) the public disclosure of the assassination
record would reveal the name or identity of a living
person who provided confidential information to the
United States and would pose a substantial risk to that
person;

(3) the public disclosure of the assassination
record could reasonably be expected to constitute an
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that
invasion of privacy is so substantial that it outweighs
the public interest;

(4) the public disclosure of the assassination
record would compromise the existence of an
understanding of confidentiality currently requiring
protection between a Government agent and a cooperating
individual or a foreign government, and public
disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the
public interest; or

(5) the public disclosure of the assassination
record would reveal a security or protective procedure
currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be
utilized, by the Secret service or another Government
agency responsible for protecting Government officials,
and public disclosure would be so harmful that it
outweighs the public interest.

4. The Act therefore superseded the guidelines established
for the Historical Review Program to the extent the Historical
Review Group (HRG) is processing information related to the
assassination of President Kennedy. The specific changes are as
follows. ;

a. The most basic change is that you must apply a
balancing test before maintaining the classification of any
information. You must balance continued classification
against the public interest in the information. Therefore,
the greater light disclosure of the information would shed
on the assassination of the President, or on the

 

2

HW 53217 DocId:32404149 Page 3
HW 53217

government's investigation into that assassination, the more
serious must be the need to continue to withhold the
information for classification to be maintained.

b. HR 70-14.e(2) states the reviewers of information

advocating continued classification of information will bear

the burden identifying any damage that disclosure could
reasonably be expected to cause to the national security.
The Act defines that burden as. one of "clear and convincing
evidence." Further, the Act changes "reasonably could be
expected to cause" to "demonstrably." Therefore, unless a
showing is made by clear and convincing evidence that
release of the information would demonstrably impair the
national security, the information must be declassified.

c. HR 70-14.e(4) addresses the standards for
maintaining the classification of foreign government
information, the identity of a foreign source, and
intelligence sources and methods. It notes that Executive
Order 12,356 presumes that this information is classified.
Under the Act, with respect to these categories of
classified information found with records related to the
assassination of President Kennedy, you must still find
demonstrable damage by clear and convincing evidence
regardless of the presumption in the Executive Order.
Further, with respect to intelligence sources and methods,
the Act requires that they--

(1) be either currently utilized or reasonably
expected to be utilized by the U.S. Government; and

(2) that they not have been officially disclosed;
and

(3) that their disclosure would interfere with the
conduct of intelligence activities.

All of these factors must be met by a showing of clear and
convincing evidence.

d. HR 70-14.e(4) also discusses CIA personnel and
organizational information. The Act only permits the
continued withholding of the identity of an "intelligence
agent" if, by clear and convincing evidence, it can be shown
the person's identity requires protection. Further, the Act
does not permit the withholding of organizational
information unless, by clear and convincing evidence, it can
be shown the disclosure of the organizational data would
demonstrably impair the national security.

e. HR 70-14.e(7) states that the HRG will determine
whether information warrants continued protection pursuant
to statutory or other requirements. The Act supersedes all
other statutory authority for withholding information except

3

DocId: 32404149 Page 4

 
