 

 

PREFACE

In February 1974, the Attorney General promulgated the Depart-
ment of Justice Management-by-Objectives (MBO) system. As indicated
in the MBO Handbook, the Department's MBO system was designed to be
introduced in phases: in FY 76, the budget and the MBO submissions
were concurrent; the FY 77 Spring Planning Call, which is the second
phase of the Department's MBO system, integrates the MBO submission
into the budgetary process through the Department's program structure.
The. FY 77 Spring Planning Call also contains several changes in re-
porting requirements which will hopefully minimize the formulation
and analytical difficulties experienced in the FY 76 MBO/Budget process.

Given the scarcity of resources which all Government agencies
will be facing in the coming years, it is essential that the Depart-
ment carefully analyze and prioritize its resource requirements so
that it may compete effectively with other Government agencies for
available financial resources.

iv

HW 54976 DocId:32989722 Page 9
 

HW 54976

DoclId:32989722 Page 10 ~1-

 

PART I
GENERAL INFORMATION AND POLICIES

A. INTRODUCTION

The Department of Justice's FY 77 planning and budget cycle will
reflect changes in the scheduling, the number of submissions required
and the types of material submitted. Some of these changes are designed
to continue the Department's efforts to improve fiscal and program
Management in a period of increasingly scarce resources and others are
a result of requirements imposed on the Department by the Congressional
Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974,

During the FY 77 cycle there will be four distinct calls for sub-
missions of information: the FY 77 Spring Planning Call which is the
Department of Justice's management and planning instrument; the FY 77
Call for the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) submission; the
Current Services Budget Call which is a new requirement of the Con-

“gressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974; and the FY 77

Congressional Estimates Call. Appendix A outlines the major events
in the FY 77 planning and budget cycle.

B. SPRING PLANNING CALL

The first of these calls, the FY 77 Spring Planning Call, is
addressed in detail below. Organizations will submit twenty (20)
copies of their Spring Planning Submission to the Assistant Attorney
General for Administration by April 14, 1975. The Department's
hearings on FY 77 program plans, objectives and proposed budgets are
scheduled to begin in mid-May 1975 and will continue through mid-June
1975. Organizations will be advised in April regarding the final
Department hearing schedule.

C. OMB SUBMISSION CALL

The second call for the traditional OMB submission will be issued
by the Department in late July 1975; this cal] will request organizations
to prepare the FY 77 OMB submission. The OMB submission will be prepared
on the basis. of Department budget marks approved by the Attorney General,
subsequent to the Spring review hearings. These Department marks will be
communicated to the organizations by late July 1975, and the Department
will consider appeals up to ten days after the communication of the in-
ternal marks. The Department's FY 77 budget estimates must be submitted
to OMB by September 30, 1975. Pending approval of the Department's pro-
gram activity structure (see Appendix B), the Department expects the
FY 77 OMB budget submission. to conform to the presently approved budget
activities.

 
 

ADDITIONAL DATA REQUIRED FOR ANALYSIS > * * s+ se ee + ¢ 18

A. Introduction. .........-. nn 2)
B. Schedule of Reimbursements .... see ee ee 18
Cc Schedule of Payments to Other Federal”

Government Organizations ... 1.2... eee ee ee 18
D. Schedule of Motor Vehicle Requirements ........ 18
E Schedule of Aircraft Requirements. ......-+... 19

APPENDICES

ee

. .

Hx OMMIOWPE
:

na
.

 

FY 77 Planning and Budget Cycle

Department Program Structure

Definitions of Adjustments to Base

Sample Program Pyramid

Sample Financial Analysis Summary Worksheets
Sample Workload Exhibit

Sample Exhibit of Summary Program Resource
Requirements by Major Object Class

Schedule of Reimbursements

Schedule of Payments to Other Federal
Government Organizations

Sample Exhibit of Motor Vehicles Requirements
Sample Exhibit of Aircraft Requirements

ti

HW 54976 DocId:32989722 Page 8
\
HW 54976

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PREFACE. 2 2 1 we wee ee ee ee ww

Part:

.

I, GENERAL INFORMATION AND POLICIES.

A. Introduction. ......
B. Spring Planning Call...

.

C. OMB Submission Call. .....

- Current Services Budget Call. .

D
E. Congressional Estimates Call .
F. New Developments in the Spring

1. Single Submission. ....
2. Treatment of Objectives. .
3. Direct and Indirect Costs.

. Program Narrative. ....

Resource Requests. ....
.- Framework of Objectives. .
.« Format Coventions. ....

GHEeG
:

II. INFORMATION REQUIRED TO SUPPORT
AND BUDGET REQUESTS ......

A. Introduction. ......
Organization Chart ....
- Program Pyramid. .....
Summary Program Narrative.
. Financial Analysis Summary

mAMOUOW
.

.

oe e

PROGRAM

.
.
.
.

a

- Detailed Program and Budget Dat

a

1. General Program Information.
2. Program Narrative.:. ....
3. Program Resource Requests. .
4. Program Objectives... ..

G. Organization Overview. .....

ee eo

oe ee ae

Cn ee ee

oe eo

oo ee oe

oe © ©

oe © ©

J. Priority Rankings. .. 1... -2. eee ee

2

. Assessment of Alternative Funding Levels
3. Major Changes to Current FY 76

Congressional Budget .. 1... 2. ee we

ti

DocId:32989722 Page 7

ee ee oe eo we we

oe we

oe 6 ©

oe oe we we

oe ee oe ee ee

Page

Pwww Wh ry NUNN

—-oOoOn NADH ou

oa 0 Se
or

~~
an

~
~

 
 

* @ OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
, JULY 1973 EDFTH
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
@ Memorandum

TO : Heads of Offices, Boards, Bureaus pate: February 14, 1975

   
 

FROM « Pommerening

stant Attorney General for Administration
SUBJECT: FY 77: Spring Planning Call

- Attached is a copy of the Department of Justice FY 77. Spring Planning
Call which outlines the requirements for the formulation of your FY 77: budget
request. In recent weeks, you and your staff have been contacted by members
of the Office of Management and Finance to elicit your experiences during the
FY 76. MBO/Budget cycle and your views of how the process could be improved.

We have attempted to address the problems which were identified throughout
the Department and to make those changes which will simplify and improve the
MBO/Budget process. These changes do not deviate from the philosophy and
concepts of management=by-objectives but, rather, attempt to eliminate some
of the formulation and analytical problems experienced in the FY 76 cycle.

© One of the innovations for FY 77:s that organizations will not be

" required to submit objectives for their entire range of activities. In FY 77,
we wil] be more interested in soliciting objectives in selected program areas.
It remains each program manager's responsibility to identify objectives which
have the most importance for his organization and highlight those specific
objectives which could be of Presidential level interest. You should also
be prepared to develop your objectives in response to policy guidelines that
may be subsequently issued by the Attorney General. In addition, you should
be prepared to define objectives in program areas which are of particular
interest to the Department; you will be advised of these designated program
areas within the next three weeks.

Twenty copies of your FY 77 Spring planning submission should be trans-
mitted by April 14, 1975, to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration.
The Office of Management and Finance will provide staff assistance in imple-
menting these instructions.

Attachment

 

. WW 54976 Docld:32969722 Page 5

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5040-110
 

 

iw 54976 Docld: 32989722 Page 6

 

U.S. Department of Justice

FY 77 SPRING PLANNING CALL

February 14, 1975

Prepared by: Management Programs
and Budget Staff
Office of Management
and Finance
 

   

SARC RE ea oo " BIER SRN I SS 2 ey
SP aa veneer ssa neem NE na ere et ne So ae toa ae

ee oe

Selvin woes anheep tre 3
hg ne ge nan Roamer 20 1
Sie gpa fey ene ounoe dry ober feaed

 

we af oe cae ne angen PT mk

Tee pene to amet oe Se oy “Sma raha |
See a LS

TORT ee SE TIT. ST

ae Coe oe we ae aabhalfendin oF = aftr h ape aso A t

Do SSE ieee ere ee

Te aches ton gra Melle EB im a? Nw

20 SRE er ae atte OT : |

GP eS eS : Serial 67 |

ee th ee

   

   

— iil

on “Ae \ \ ¢ 2 2-HQ-116464-E67

 

 

 

 

   

4

joes wm * ar err aera
re tiee mien 1nd mien QU wane ee Ig eee ae as
ap Tar e Seca nag Oop
Chama Came nn oa
wibeealeie are ae wie
pe atten neces ye
eacher che gbts ore
arenes 8 oem ee Lhe, ccaamnatann sageite Tie ele
Woeeek bucteee om See TDI
eee RE I Te
Sel re peas yr RECS arin
eer ae tet annie Sapte se Mi dvenge fot Ate pat wet mt vie are

aA Ne Manet cath oh cecal ety ome me pone ?
Tle eae Sie Ey 8 oe
foaves

rcenestnapeacrn go mover iow tennien fe 2
rang wliperninteywnaenst oi eatery Hane
ips tebe oe daw Lopeae cpiae Deny TResgneaaoawa) wy i aebware na wMpmirn tre barat oo
Sraecrche errant marke re these tae Be apne hen eee nvepbeniaten « Sit OTe Fe are ted ote
Med stop nyt agiet Conteny cca npr sway f taomnnt tae tee mit ete A manera ed net
“SSiamcamo twin fevemetaintacien oar occoe ak ate anit Seacchees topes shawn a met aetbwniean ee ten tia oo
. RT TE nant tte ace en vanes Mae i lvoe ae anes peek ae
ONG uae on Ty BM Ty maipee tat oo a gape peek toon sore mabe ad mee wea nd Amey
ior en Late ae oe note ook ktatersrt st ee denen ecb eaters
sa we hal ayia ans eeomenpenceepaemiiag a apemerae preunorcyeet yaaa of Mik sacl fu

cnn ciate nk BA, we baben i bein bee etaeren,

20 SOS Ee ie EL ET tg AE
ed Renee te en mere oh teatesdoin 8 phere ade oe [
se eager ts anc inked nage fs oer See eae se

Gale worn Dor saa shed yo were roma H Le te es |

hilt hee | shee prerneny vata erohe sene Sap in ak oe Mee ste!
pace gerd " cher Sees, Oe |

3 ah oe AREER SE Tarn hy ercrects
C peers earring ete rr vonai B.D LS a, eareeiee gener ees peer
gueters 9% ihe ality wom? E ; BRA HG = vies ihe nage wytnten eenseeiry wane Liane Seaclone Mirted eti anttingene |
roanaaminnrnisciiia mene he sen tag bac ee a sorties: ee y} ; sac pea TS EE ae nei aaa A
¥ er UI eH ce et akgme ce Enc on rim ribeye teen A cies Began Sone fhe ye and fo Hb ©
canes Semis eee cats Set igi ae A Te
‘ weet eae cociee bankas Immo a ranted an bows age we |
Sr SG IS Sat eae aR bape ges oe”
oe t Ries aoe lo

Bete Ew

 

Jb rt is

nas een et ” Reo aos Vee SUE Te ee |

er erinis denen 7 KS _ tit andy Coastgeec ans fume’ 48 ane baage micte itge
oe oo Drer\rrc Tinchy aavestet etieckee eaeabe Co, 8 9 matt Fae omeg pa aR ROY ae sate nalint Rebotak ta eee aR eer ates »
Eset ree Aang egutont, ante ng “mgr reietwattynaes mee ate abe t a CR Ries Styne aitinut ak thy ratte angen ore ea owe
3 <i} sg nr a" Fac aan eas : : to pie ag mae a rain  Solqecientat nee
: LS agi ¢ “i Recents eee On

2 ne a: " . oe las por rane . as

Sint Spine red : : ntettg nina hele TG LN ca Tn nde BF aalien}

eae ie, cai pealirtaar Be

TE. Oo

ee Laie ane tahun hake e aan)
ae wey Perec retternrsecn see Aelen! pines since oF ak wins Levy eb Meera les ye tapainaen mie Ae toes Ra rene

 

 

perccnners e earernn
| i Sec gene eee Rae

‘ eaciecermmramae an
eee

SEER i ec hie lope oie teed digs teas
are ene, cnn re Papeete ook ae

ol m . 2 Ms ponies ie. + Seer tRpess [Bie Ihe Henn mamma are tip te ta m ae or ba
, a : eae Sho Sees
: : : Roper eser eaerepatgerrn ceed
Reiter roapr ati eet
sears torre een
ROMEO Loam. Sathee SPT
mente, Feber Phe eter oh aby

SOREN Sees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mepecaniarer im)
ppg EE es i emecraetnnaen beni tac haee

 

 

 
 

 

 

File #:

WOOF

 

 

 

Serial Scope: |

 

 
 

 

h

*

  
  
   
   
      
        
   

      

AG — UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTVS
ot oe, SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE {
9 “HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE :
PThis in response to HSC let dtd 7/30/75 requstng
haccess to FBI budgetary info already provided to
-EGovt Accounting Office to investigtn for House
} Judiciary Committee. Attached ur approval &
‘forwarding to Committee orgnl of memo constitutes
. Ecomplete response . to request. We hv responded
Rta reqts in HSC let dtd 7/30/75. Copy of memo
being provided for ur records. er

  

  

  

~

 

 

AW 54976 DocId:32989722 Page 3 _

 

 
United States
Department of Justice

 

 

@ THE FY 77
SPRING PLANNING CALL

 

 

@ PREPARED BY

MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS AND BUDGET STAFF
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE

 

. WW 54976 Docld: 32989722 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 

 
