 

DECLASSIFIED }

 

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS, Former President of Cuba
ROBERTO EB. CANESSA, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of
El Salvador

~ duly 7, 1954

n

An informant of known reliability has advised that
he was contacted on June 26, 1954, by SEGUNDG, OURTL, former
Secretary of Interior under’ the’ PRIO regiyie in Cuba? and
presently closely associated with CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS in Miami.
CURTI remarked that the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of El
Salvador, ROBERTO E. CANESSA, was scheduled to come to Miami
within a few days to address the Chamber of Commerce of the
Americas. He requested that the informant arrange an interview
for him with Secretary CANESSA, stating that it was very impor-
tant to do so. .

Subsequently on June 29, 1954, the informant consulted
Secretary CANESSA following his arrival in Miami, and explained
to him the desires of SEGUNDO CURTI for an interview. CANESSA
remarked, "I will be glad to meet with Secretary CURTI, but I
do not think anything will be accomplished through that meeting
because my government , through our representative in the Organi-
zation of the American States, has made clear its attitude con- _
cerning the Cuban problem."

The informant told Secretary CANESSA that he believed
CURTI wanted to discuss with him a matter relating to Dr. PRIO'ts
arrest and the resulting prosecution based upon the confiscation
of armaments. ”

The informant quoted Secretary CANESSA.as stating,

"That is one of the most regrettable incidents to have occurred

in the recent history of inter-American relations. It was a

great mistake on the part of the American authorities. There

are many ways to solve a problem of this magnitude without legal
interventions and the resulting publicity. Those responsible for
this incident, particularly the Justice Department, have set back
the prestige of the United States, and if at the end, PRIO is
found guilty, then the case will really be critical.  PRIO is

the Cuban constitutional president. I want you to know personally

PRIO was never my friend, but above all we have to recognize the

A, RECREATION CORRE
C

 

HW 54463

DocId:32326661 Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System” Date: 429/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90055-10253
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: CR 109-430-1246 ‘
. Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ Released under the John
. Eennedy
TITLE: Assassination Records
, ollection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#iNU 54463 Date:
DATE: 07/07/1954 ba
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS :
ANTONIO DE VARONA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

 

v9.1

HW 54463 DoclId: 32326661

31
Page 1
 

 

 

fact that. PRIO, as the deposed constitutional president of a

_ state, has the right to fight for the restoration of consti-

tutional government in his country. Otherwise, he would not
merit the slightest consideration from, anyone. There is no
doubt. in my mind that PRIO broke the rules and regulations set

‘forth by the laws of this country. But, why should the authori-

ties act openly when PRIO could be decently called to Washington
and in a secret meeting asked either to stop his activities or
to leave United States territory? ,

_ "Right now, we have the most regrettable case of |
Guatemala. Who has been helping the rebels to depose a consti-
tutional government? I do not think we have to dig very far to
find out that there is a direct United States participation. in
it. This participation is not resented by anyone of us because
we are all against any Communistic government in the Americas.
We go further. We knowingly will deny that .there is. American
participation in the revolutionary movement to depose the

rbenz government. Why then cannot PRIO'ts case be treated in
the margin of existing laws, if by so doing the United States
will preserve its prestige among its friends? -

"PRIO'ts arrest and prosecution is a matter of local
concern. Neither myself nor my government will ever intervene
one way or the other in the PRIO case as we maintain the policy
of non-intervention in local affairs. We merely regret that this
case exists and I most sincerely believe that the entire thing
should be brought to a halt and Dr. PRIO and his group ‘invited!
to depart from the United States with appropriate official
explanations and satisfactions, as the fact is that local
authorities have insulted the dignity and majesty of a consti-
tutionally elected ‘president who greatly cooperated with the
United States Government.

"Of course, all these are my private reactions toward
this most regréttable case. However, for the reasons I have
explained to you, nothing officially can be said.”

Informant said that Secretary CANESSA concluded by |
stating that he would be pleased to meet with CURTI following
the reception that evening given by Mr. WALTER FREEMAN, Consul
of Hl Salvador in Miami, A“p :

. Immediately thefeafter the informant contacted CURTI,
who ‘requested that the meeting be arranged to take place at the
home of ELISEQ(RIER REOMEZ, who is registered under the Foreign

-2-

 

 

HW 54463

DocId:32326661 Page 3

 
 

 

Agents Registration Act as a public relatio ent for PRIO.

CURTI stated that he would aiso invite TON ARONA, President of
PRIO's authentic party and also MARTINE@FRAGA. This information
was relayed to Secretary CANESSA, who requested that the meeting

_be postponed until ten o'clock the following morning... ye

De PL
During the afternoon of June 29, ROBERTO MOLINO-MORALES,
who is the Second Chief of Protocol of the Republic of El

Salvador, and who accompanied Secretary CANESSA to Miami, advised
the informant, "We all know that BATISTA is a double crosser;

that all of his statements as far as democracy is concerned, are -=<J

forced by circumstances. PRIO on the other hand, granted the
Cuban people the greatest degree of freedom and democracy. which
had ever existed in Cuba. PRIO made some mistakes, such as the
open support of the Caribbean Legion. We, the Salvadoran Govern-
ment, were ready to secretly support the Caribbean Legion at the
beginning because we welcomed the return of freedom and democracy
to those of our sister republics who were under dictatorships.
But, PRIO, with his open support to the Legion, curtailed any
action by us. Perhaps, at the end, this proved to be best for

us in El Salvador.”

The informant stated that during the reception, Secretary
GCANESSA approached him privately, stating, "You imow, I have been
thinking very seriously about that interview with Secretary CURTI.
I know I will not be able to promise him anything, as much as I
would like to do so, as the smallest bit of information which
might reach the State Department in Washington about this inter-~
view would embarrass me and my government. This is one of those

' problems where one has to sacrifice his own personal feelings and

the dictates of good conscience in order to safeguard our good
relations with Washington. I know the FBI, the Central Intelli-
gence Agency, and other agencies in this -cothtry today watch very
carefully each and every. step any diplomat or official makes while
not only visiting in the United States, but even in our own
countries. This is a fact that we resent, but we cannot openly
protest against this insulting and flagrant intervention because
if we do so, our common enemy (Communism) will strengthen their
propaganda. Because of all of these reasons, I beg of you to
cleverly evade the appointment with CURTI. At the same time,

after my departure, explain to him what I have told you."

Subsequently, the informant notified CURTI that Secre-
tary CANESSA would be unable to see him and upon relaying this |
information to CANESSA, the latter told him that although he had

 

 

HW 54463

DocId:32326661 Page 4

——

 
