 

page 78) in checking his story. , This is considered
a sensitive operational method, and deletion of use
of the polygraph in the interrogation is requested.
It seems interesting that this fabrication, which
proved to be an untrue report, receives 50 much
‘attention in the report. It really became a non- :
story, although time was required to check it out.

Page 79. The FBI was not denied access to "D"', As the basis -
a . for the statement is not known, it is not known in what.
context the understanding developed. The Mexicans
did make "ND" available for interrogation, at which the.
FBI was present. . -_ Sot _-

Page 104, The draft report states that CI Staff was not "affiliated

- |. with CIA's Cuban affairs staff,"! although later in the -
“ piece it refers to-SAS! (CL. people coordinating with
CI Staffs. These.appear contradictory statements.

 

 
  

   

 

 

Page 3. Re the case ofa man crossing the Mexican border
_- on 23 November then flying to Cuba. This case was —
; investigated and pertained to Gilbert Lopez, a U.S.
citizen who had secured a fifteen day Mexican tourist.
_ card at Tampa, ‘Florida, on 20 November 1963. ‘He
- entered Mexico on this document at Neuvo. Laredo on
23 November 1963. He checked into the Roosevelt
3. + Hotel on 25 November 1963. .On 27 November he
oa FL -ehecked out of the hotel and departed for Havana .
ne ‘aboard a regularly scheduled Cubana Flight #465. --
ne He had a courtesy visa to visit Cuba. This was a
; scheduled international flight and he happened to. -.
"be, according to the manifest, the only passenger.

 

 

HW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 9
 

Page 120, It is requested that CIA support for DRE, JURE
: and the 30th November Movement groups be altered
to a generic description of anti-Castro groups.
Persons identified with them in some circles could
suffer from official confirmation of the connection.
This is-still considered as classified. It is noted
that CIA did not have an operational interest in
_SNFE or Alpha 66, - , .

Page122. The Agency effort to obtain FPCC stationery
| through a penetration for use in a deception
. operation is still classified since it involves
sources and methods. : an

Page 129. That the SAS Executive Officer views the AMLASH_

: : operation as having been an assassination plot is
_not very helpful, unless the time sequence and
evolution of the relationship with AMLASH/1 is |

- made a part of that view. His account in 1967 2°
‘supported FitzGerald's story of what happened
in the 29 October 1963 meeting, - ef

   

“That SAS/CI speaks broadly. may not be all that
helpful either, if the extent of his knowledge,
‘and when he knew what he says he knew, is --
‘fixed in time, That he wrote a memorandum in —
co . 1965 on the security of the operation, does not
oe J. '+ * qualify him 'to address where things stood in .
oe 1963. In fact, he is quoted at page 139 as saying
that he could not recall the time frame. - .

Page 133. The draft report states that in October 1963 the
. | PBI knew of the "assassination aspect of the
: AMLASH" operation, As is noted earlier,
there was no such characterization that applied |
to it then, so how it could have known is subject
to question. : : :

 

AW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 10
Pagess6-57.. :

on _ Page 65.

AW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 8

‘Pages 76-78.

oP SECRET

The draft report states that an overseas, Station

raised a question of AMLASH security. This is

taken out of context. ‘Consideration had been given

to the possibility of using AMLASH/1 in the recruit- |

ment of a prospective agent in another European

country. This prospective agent frequently traveled

to Soviet Bloc countries and recently had returned, -

The cable noted that the prospective agent appeared.

less recruitable since his return and the Station felt
that the use of AMLASH to recruit the agent might

pose a serious threat to AMLASH's personal security.

It did not, in any manner, reflect on the security of the

AMLASH operation. OS ;

The 8 December'1963 cable from JMWAVE was in -
reply to two cables sent from Headquarters on |
7 December 1963 which clarified the reason for the

’. delay in laying down the cache.. AMLASH had been --
~ assured that he would be given time to re-establish’

his normal pattern and assess the atmosphere and
’ feelings among his contacts. He was also told that
. there would be no activity until January 1964, Further,

“the Standing Group was to meet on 10 December 1963

to discuss US policy toward Cuba and Latin America.
If the Standing Group decided to. recommend a change _..
in then current policy toward Cuba the conduct of . |
' operations that might be counter to any recommended’
‘ change in US policy objectives, should not be under way.

Did the FBI learn the "details" of the AMLASH operation -
in July 1964? They learned of AMLASH's unhappiness —
with his failure to get what he asked, but what else did
they learn beyond the fact of the relationship? ,

This portion of the report makes reference, to use of
the polygraph on "D" (also revealed in true name at

oN
Page 33.

Page 34.

Page 47.

‘ Page 53.
vf

AW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 7

Page 41. -

The report also says, here, "none of this other
activity would seem to warrant Castro's associating
that activity with U.S. leaders to the extent that he
would threaten the safety of American leaders aiding
the plans. ''' We note without exception. Se,

Footnote *, The Cuban Coordinating Committee was
a group for ordinating implementation of established
programs y memorandum of 22 May 1963, McGeorge -
“Bundy, Special Assistant to President Kennedy for
National Security Affairs, designated the State Depart-

_- ment Coordinator of Cuban Affairs as Chairman of the

‘ Interdepartmental Committee on Cuba with the specific
responsibility for the coordination of day-to-day actions

” regarding Cuba. - Membership of the Committee con-

_ sisted of representatives from State, USIA, DoD, CIA,
Justice, Treasury and ad hoc representatives as
necessary. . Se -

Footnote ak, This seems to indicate that the FBI

- learned {of CLA's operations on 10 October 1963
“"(@ new date?) and that this led to termination of the

AMLASH operation. Of course, that happened rhuch  ~ 7
later. Se ce

~ ngpecial Affairs Staff" should read "Special Activities

Staff." . .

"SASICI should read SAS/CI.

Testimony of Karamessines is quoted, in which he is
asked a hypothetical question about use of AMLASH,

and that he answered hypothetically, but the presentation,
seems to treat it as fact. Oe
Reference to CIA "technical" collection capability in ©
Mexico City should be deleted. Simply delete the
word "technical." This small point is a sources-
and-methods question. re

“2
‘

 
The 13 November memorandum also stated that:

"Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at the FitzGerald meeting. After the meeting
(AMLASH/1) stated that he was satisfied with
the policy discussion but now desired to know
what technical support we could provide him."

- On 14 November 1963 a Cuban exile in New York (the source
of the original introduction to AMLASH/ 1) stated to a CIA case
officer that AMLASH/1, while: '"'... satisfied...as far as policy
was concerned, .. . was not at all happy with the fact that he
still was not given the technical assistance. for the operational
plan as he saw it... He could not understand why he was denied
certain small pieces of equipment which permitted a final

_ solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S.
Government gave much equipment and money to exile groups for
their ineffective excusions...'' The report of that meeting,
also stated: "...if he does not get advice and material from a
U.S. Government technician, he will probably become ‘fed-up
again and we will lose whatever progress we have made to date."

On 19 November 1963 a CIA memorandum records FitzGerald's
approval of a cache for AMLASH/1 inside Cuba, with high-powered
rifles and scopes. During the period following 19 November, ~ —s:
and prior to a meeting in Paris on 22 November, a ballpoint pen
was rigged as a hypodermic syringe with which AMLASH/2 could
administer a poison. The case officer arrived in-Parison
22 November 1963 and met with AMLASH/1 on that date. AMLASH/L
was shown the ballpoint pen device but did not accept it. He also
was told of the arms cache he would be provided. ot

The record is quite clear that AMLASH/1 had no grounds,
‘prior to 22 November 1963, to believe that he had any support :
from the United States for operations jnvolving the agssassin- —
ation of Fidel Castro. In fact, he had no advance support for .
a coup, however he |might attempt it. This is emphasized by
his recorded complaints on the subject, clearly reflecting his
. . understanding that such was the case. His complaint on 14
_— L November 1963, as reported through an intermediary, may have
‘ no led to the decision on 19 November 1963 to provide him with

MW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 5 . *
AW 53320

Page 2l.

 

Of course, the reference to especial relevance
of the AMLASH operation in this context is
questioned.

‘Draft report states that President Kennedy did "admit
that the Bay of Pigs invasion was in fact an operation
sponsored by the CIA,"' Our impression was that he
accepted this responsibility as. his, for a government
program. How and in what forum was the stated
admission? ,

Page 27.

(numbered 29)

 

Speaking of renewal of contact with AMLASH/1 the °
draft says ". . . the exact purpose the CIA had for
renewing contact is not known, but there is no evidence
that CIA intended at this time to use AMLASH in an
‘assassination operation. :

When AMLASH came , out of Cuba i in ‘September
1963, it was the first chance since ‘August 1962 mo
to see him. ‘Recontact needed no mysterious
"exact purpose. " It is correct to state that
there was*no evidence’ of intent to use him as an
assassination operation; rather, the circum-

' stances that followed suggest, Just the © opposite,

. Footnote: The case officer did’ not say, as stated.
‘“Gn the draft, that the basis for meeting with AMLASH™
was the belief of AMLASH that the first step of any :
‘ coup was assassination. “While AMLASH's views were
known, as shown by the evidence his views were
rejected at least during the critical period.

Page 29. “The opinion expressed i in the draft report, in relation

DoclId: 32397187

Page

to the Harker interview, about. "AMLASH not being
a terrorist, "is correct. Should it be reconciled
with statements on Page 8?

 

6
opener eee ee

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON,D.C. 20505

 

“40 June 1976

Mr. William G. Miller. . _
Staff Director ,
Select Committee to Study Governmental ©

Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities
Room G-308 , ‘
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Bill:

Forwarded herewith are comments on the draft report of
the Senate Select Committee's subcommittee on the question of
support by the intelligence agencies for the Warren Commission
inquiry. These comments have been prepared under a tight
deadline, which has limited the ability to research ali the questions
raised in the draft report. _ ;

“The attachments to this letter‘are in two sections. The first
is a summary of considerations relating to'the relationship between
CIA and AMLASH/1 prior to the assassination of President Kennedy
on 22 November 1963. The point is that the record of what was said
to AMLASH/1, and specific. reporting of what he understood, makes
it clear that there were no grounds for him to believe, and he did :
not believe, that he had CIA support for an assas sination plot against
Castro in the period preceding President Kennedy's death. The
second attachment is an item-by-item series of comments, ranging
from minor editorial notations and comments, to factual corrections
and security points. SO : ;

As there is a basic difference between the interpretation of
facts in the draft report, and the facts as we know them, it would be
." appreciated if there could be an opportunity to address the question
; . with the members of the Subcommittee. It is my opinion that it would
a 7 be a disservice to the public to issue the report as now written.
oy ; .
: . if le oo : : Sincerely, .

He . .

te . oe co ; 1 Se a .
oo a , oe 7 . S, D. Brecxinridge

. To oe Deputy Inspector General

Attachments: |
As stated,

 

FADED tsetse te simen

‘f

HW 53320) Docld:32397187 Page 2
AW 53320

DoclId: 32397187

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :
FROM :

. TO:

TITLE :

. ’ REPORT OF .

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :
‘CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS. :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMMENTS

Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFO TION Released under the John

Kennedy

   

CIA
104-10429-10245 Assassination Records
JEK . ollection Act of 1992

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
ase#:NU 53320 Date:
hé-24-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
INSPECTOR GENERAL

STAFF DIR.

:FORWARDED HEREWITH ARE COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT

 

 

PAPER

TOP SECRET
1B : .

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

12/16/98 :

JEK-RH17

F13 1998.12.16.08:06:17:000129

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10429-10245
Tab t

 
 

ae SECRET (

AMLASH Operation

The objective of the AMLASH operation throughout its
existence was the formation of a nucleus within Cuba to organize
an internal coup to replace the Castro regime. -AMLASH/I held
a position high in. the Cuban government.. He was disillusioned
with the Castro regime and was considered as a possible political
action asset. The Agency had a series of meetings with him.
during the 1961-62 period, the last of which was in August 1962
prior to his departure for Havana. He was never a fully. recruited
agent. .

In September 1963 AMLASH/1 was met in Brazil, the first
time since the August 1962 meetings. During the September 1963
meeting with AMLASH/1, he said that there were two ways to
-effect a coup; through an outside invasion (which he recognized
was out of the question at that time) or through an "inside job"
(i. e.. internal coup via military overthrow). He indicated that
he was waiting for a plan of action from the United States
Government. By this he meant high-level assurances of support
for a successful coup. The same cable which reported the results
of the meeting also indicated that AMLASH/1 "will always be a
control problem. "' oo

AMLASH/1 then went to Paris, France, where he was met
again. Meetings with AMLASH/I in October 1963 consisted of
exploration as to what he might do, and requests by him for
U.S. support. In response to his seeking high-level assurances
of U.S. support, Desmond FitzGerald met with him on _
29 October 1963. The plan for that meeting is described in
writing in the file as follows: .

. "FitzGerald will represent self as personal
: representative of Robert F. Kennedy who
ae traveled Paris for specific purpose meeting

, 7 . (AMLASH/1) and giving him assurances of
“ : . full U.S. support if there is change of the .
rn) “1, present government jn Cuba." (Emphasis added).

: TOP-SECRET. Classified by Signer

AW 53320 DocId:32397187 Page 3
AW 53320

 

A memorandum for the record of that meeting, dated
13 November 1963, contained the following summary?

“FitzGerald informed (AMLASH/1 that the
United States is prepared to render all
ov necessary assistance to any anti-communist
Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing
the present Cuban leadership and assumes
sufficient control to invite the United States
to render the assistance it is prepared to
‘give. It was emphasized that the above
support Will be forthcoming only after a
' real coup has been effected and the group
involved is in a position to request U.S.
robably under OAS. auspices) reco nition
-and support. It was made clear that the U.S.
was not prepared to commit itself to support-"
ing an isolated uprising, as such an uprising
‘can be extinguished in a matter of hours if
the present ‘government is still in control in
Havana. As for the post-coup period, the
U.S. does not desire that the political clock be
turned back but will support the necessary economic
and political reforms which will benefit the mas'’s of
the Cuban people."' (Emphasis added).

In 1967 the Inspector General of CIA conducted an investi-
gation of the AMLASH operation, and interviewed Mr. FitzGerald
and his exécutive officer (who had been kept thoroughly familiar
with developments). FitzGerald recalled that AMLASH/1 spoke of

. the need for an assassination weapon, particularly a high powered

rifle with telescopic sights or some other weapon which could -
be used to kill Castro from a distance. FitzGerald rebuffed

‘this request and instructed the case officer who served as an

interpreter to tell AMLASH/1 that the U.S. simply did not do
such things. FitzGerald's executive officer, though not pre-
sent, had the same recollection. Mr. FitzGerald assured
AMJASH/1 of full U.S. support Nig there is a change of the

present leadership.

 

DocId:323971687 Page 4
