 

 

   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 

Piranch of government in terms of a mass of materials.

Din order to investigate, it seems to me that there,
must be a review made as to what has been done up until “how.
I do not see how, in looxing and deciding the aizections
nS ‘GO, there can be any intelligent approach without, ‘finding

2K oo bn,
“out: what has been done, ana ly sipauie it, dctermiiallean § in)

eM more.
“lees areas whw®.needs to be done,

 
   

to be done.

  

 

Each of you has before you a book in which we have”

 

a laid out an approach in each of these two cases. The:

  

_. question I think was raised as to why should we proceed ..on .

 

both matters, the two assassinations at the. same: _time? e
With regard to that question, let me respond: as follows:

Tr think it important that we proceed simaitaneousy

 

 

the: reason that, as ‘I look at it, asa homicide investigat or-

 

prosecutor, we are being called to the scene- Of ‘two. homicides:

-Feally 13 years later and 8 years later. I ao not think ee

 

: “ae is in the interests of this Congress, if it means “what,

 

it saia, investigating the matters thoroughly, - that eh
Congress ought to be part of any further delay.
For example, it has. come to my attention that: ‘since oe

_at least the resolution on which this committee is presently |

  

here as passed by the Congress, that authorities: in ‘Tennessee

   

have ‘destroyed some documents relating to the. surveillance

    

 
 

: on Dr. King. If that be so, and I have sent an investigative
team down to Memphis, it emphasizes the fact that any delay
on either one of these investigations is not really in the

” interests of the Congress to do a thorough job.

-@ mere is another reason. As ayain an’ Anvestigator

‘and homicide prosecutor, to me one of the e essential

~ thorough tavestigation is not to have a time Limitation,

° this isa different species of animal than the Congress

wanting to have say the unemployment statisti¢s in ‘Michigan,

edule: if they get lost for a while, if they (tie you “ap in:

court for a while, they can really end up prevent ing the”

|} conctusion of the investigation. I think it would be a:

«mistake, and again my main assumption: is that hat is”
intended here is to doa thorough job, professional, job,
definitive as can be, to Start imposing some. barrier of :

: tineg Te we were to proceed, for example, - in “the King.

assassination first, there would be a great push to get that |

 
    
    
  
   
  
  

_to me that what has to be for this investigation to be
thorough, at least attempt to be definitive, is en independent
investigative staff of the Congress, not beholden to. any.
other agency of government « Again that is one of the =

assumptions that I have made in analyzing what has” “to be.

 

i done, and making a determination to recommend to you’ as’,

 

Ato what kind of staff is necessary for this Javestigationg

 

ehamt not stating whether or not the Congress’ was aware as

 

 

to what really is involved in the investigation of ee

 

nomicides, two deaths. It is not ‘something that you do. with
three investigators and two file clerks.

FD vvon taking this assignment, I have instituted. a | number :

 

> of. theasures, and have taken certain actions uP: to this’

  
 

point, one of which was to be in touch with agencies. of

 

tne phecutive Aranch of government, the CIA, the Department

 

||. 08. Justice, who spoke in behalf of that department and the»

 
 

FBI, “to initiate requests for access to material in: their

    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

“posession. Suffice to say that the indications up to this
“point have been that of full cooperation, and r- night, say.
‘that in speaking to the representative from. the CIA, he a

: advised me that just at the initiation of our. - investigation,

 

 

 

 

“the CIA has some 64 cartons of documents for examination e

and review, which points out to some extent: really, the

  

 

size of the task that is being undertaken here, because

. ‘ PRenay --
.dewe ‘are dealing there with just one _brameh of the prscutive

     
 

and the extent to which those other agencies withheld
information, or did certain acts that perhaps indicate.
destruction of documents affecting the results of the
investigation.

G I am not : stating, saying whether those things are.
| so or not. I want to say to this committee that- I have,

Ro conclusions, I have not the slightest opinion,

 

 

» regard to either death, with regard to any wrongdoing by
By | agencies of government, with regard to any inaccuracies,
with regard to what has been developed in the past. 1 take 7
the function now to be to thoroughly investigate and

- ascertain what is the evidence, indicating who in fact
were the participants in either of the assassinations.

Is there any additional evidence that was not known

 

_ earlier?

In addition, is there any evidence indicating that

 

there may have been participation ineach of the assassinations
~ “by more than one person, and whether or not any agencies a
“of government have impeded attempts to ascertain the, answers
te those questions before? .

With that again being an assumption on my par:

   

“it that this Congress would not, in authorizing this

~ investigation, have as its investigators the agencies OF

  
 

lh the ‘Federal Government that perhaps might be: part of the |

“larea to be investigated. By that, to be specific

 
 

    
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
 
 

    
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   

a) oO
point, what analysis has been made by the staff with’ regard
to what the needs are of staff in the direction of the

investigation. Suffice to say that in being asked to an

 

become chief counsel ‘and director of this investigation,

“I have entered upon those duties with a number of: assumptions.

 

 

“The: first assumption is that. it is the intént of the congress.

in passing the resolution on the investigation. of. the

 

 

"assassinations of Dr. King and President Kennedy, ‘to! see

 

“that the investigations are done ina thorough professional
“manner, the kind of manner that can withstand, as it ougint

~ fo, any searching analysis as to what has been done on a

 

day-by- day basis.
FF wien that in mind, I have also accepted the basic

/ assumption that since one of the reasons that these ~

 

 

re ; : . ; 2
--investigations have come to pass is that ww

 

| ghadzman Bowning. ‘Let me interrupt, Mr. Sprague.

. John Anderson has been appointed to fill in the. ‘vacancy
pesition

 

> wi mda” :
formerly occupied by Congress, Talcott, and he is’ on his _way-

Af here’ now, so if you will just desist for the morient ; and Be

 

li-we will wait for Mr. Anderson.

fshort recess.)

Chairman Downing. The committee will again coittie to

 

 

 

: order...
I have a letter here from Mr. John J. Rhodés,, minority

 leader,. addressed to the Speaker: "As a result: of the.

       
 

 
   
   
   
   
 

resignation of the Hopguatte Burt L. Talcott for the
Select Committee on Assassinations, I now make the abpointment
of the Honorable John B. Anderson."

Y oer. Anderson, welcome aboard. This committee is very

grateful to have your talents.

 

.. Mr. Anderson. Thank you very much, Mr. ‘Chairman. “>.
20S. man

 

Mr. Harvey. Percy Harvey from Mr. Harold Ford's. staff:

 

' Chairman Downing. John, Mr. Sprague is just beginning.
“his presentation.

‘All right, Mr. Sprague.

ir, Sprague. Mr. Chairman, if I may, It will Just*

- start from the beginning.

 

As I was stating, upon taking this position as chief
counsel and director, I have taken it with a number: of as

assumptions which I think I ought to state preliminarily.

 

--One is that the Congress of the United States, in passing
“the resolution for the Select Committee on Assassinations, |

“intenas that there be a thorough, hopefully definitive me

  
   
     
 

“investigation with regard to each of the assassinations,.:

Martin Luther King and President Kennedy.

 
   

seconday, I have made an assumption that. one of the’
“jf, reasons that these investigations have come into ‘being is

“that questions have arisen, criticism has arisen, with.

 

 

_]) Fesava to prior investigations, the extent to’ which: other

agencies of government, particularly ene frcentive sanch

 

government, participated in those previous. investigations, Bee

   
 

 

 

a EXECUTIVE SESSION ©

EXECUTIVE SESSION

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

HEARINGS

BEFORE THE COMMITTEE

on a

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
ae
EXECUTIVE SESSION

“BUSINESS MEETING

Monday, November 15, 1976 —

Washington, D. C.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Official Reporters to Committees

 

GPO 16--75107-1

EXECUTIVE SRSSION

\ pocta: 32266815 Page 2
—sssaanntertes 5 et SS ne

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Identification Form

a

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: — 180-10117-10040

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014696

a

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE: BUSINESS MEETING

DATE: 11/15/1976
PAGES: 144

SUBJECTS :
GRODEN, ROBERT
HSA; FINAL REPORT
HSCA; METHODOLOGY
WC; STAFF
LOVELADY, NOLAN
PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS; ZAPRUDER
WC; METHODOLOGY
HSCA; STAFF

“DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
_ RESTRICTIONS: — Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : MLK material withdrawn, pp. 11-35. Box 279.

 

1
bocld: 32266815 Page 1
  
 
   

  

 

,EXECUREVE-—SESSEION-—

ar Comm i tee ~
(crag ( BUSENESS MEETING

G)the committee proceeded into executive session ‘at.

Present: Representatives Downing, (presiaing) Devine, °

 

 

 

   

 

: Nese, Vicki Peckham faministrative foststancs

i ishihie
Lennon, Robert H. Maloney, Henry Spring, Yep Jasistonce

f tage ember. / oe
, fe ch Gus Edwyrds, el vie

 

 

         

 
     
    
  

 
    
 

   
      
  
   
   
 

 

A chairman Downing. For the purposes of the record, I
would like each person. in the room to identify themselves .
with their title.

Mr. Burgess. Quentin Burgess. I am with Mrs. Burke's —

  
 

office.
Mr. Maloney. Robert Maloney. Congressman Stokes
office.

“Ms. Beagle. Gail Beagle, Congressman Go zalez's office. :

 

Martin, Rebecca Martin, with the committee’staff. —

  
    
   
  

Gay. Donovan L. Gay, committee staff.-  -

 

‘Sprague. Richard A. Sprague, chief counsel.

 

Feeney.. Richard Feeney, committee staff.

“Ms. Peckham. . Vicki Peckham, Mr. Thone's offi} e.

 

Ms. Larson. Billie Gay Larson, committee staff.
Mr. Lennon. Peter Lennon, Mr. Dodd's staff...”
Mr. McGee. Joe McGee, Mr. McKinney! staff. -

Mr. Spring. Henry Spring, Mr. McKinney's office.

 

 

Ms. Groden.- Christine Groden, consultant.

   
  
  
   
 
 

Mr. Groden. Robert Groden, consultant.

 

.Mr. Briggs. William Briggs, Congressman: Fauntroy's Staff.

Chairman Downing. The first item on the executive:

 

“P-session will be a presentation by Mr. Sprague:

Mr. Sprague. Mr. Chairman and members of the select | oo

 

- gommittee:

I would like to take up what has been done up ‘to. this:

 

   
