 

       

5. A suggestion ‘was made that small explosives or incendiaries which —
could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter
explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can

be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclination

to use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

 

7. The Attorney General and Mr, Bundy said that no reprisals against

exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8. it was suggested that the possibilities of @@m@eemgmiame looked

into further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how

much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government,

 

within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it would not be
a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great

degree.

10, Mr. Bundy then raised the basic question of the entire spectrum

of other contingencies beyond those envisaged in the MONGOOSE program. -

    

ONW.54214 DocId:32977062 Page 5

    
7 . ~5-

He mentioned as examples what the U.S. response should be in the event
of a revolt and whether or not a naval blockade should be mounted.
The Group agreed that such planning, in addition to the military contingency
plans already prepared, must be pursued.

Although recognizing that this type of activity is not within the

‘ 5

MONGOOSE framework, Mr. bundy fé8e that General Lansdale's group,
particularly the State representative, Coutd do the initial exploration
of possibilities for later consideration by the Special Group, the
Secretary of State and higher authority. On the other hand, General
Carter felt strongly that if General Lansdale and his associates
were given the responsibility for developing the spectrum of possible
decisiongof this kind, it would inevitably detract from the time

available for MONGOOSE operations. This matter was left open for further

consideration at a meeting next week.

OC = Ge tawdt - batRonyed aleles - mem

HW 54214 DocId:32977062 Page 6
a

oy Ian, Ronde giirlee

DBAPT- MONGOOSE Minutes - 9/6/62
TAP /mm

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD oe,
a
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on
Operation MONGOOSE , 6 September 1962
PRESENT: Mr. McGeorge Bundy; the Attorney General; Mr. Martin;

Mr. William Bundy, General Decker, General Lansdale and
General Harris; General Carter; Mr. Murrow

1. Sabotage Operation

General Carter reported that information should be available by ©
Sunday as to the success of this previously-approved operation. Mr.
_ Bundy requested that the White House be informed as soon as the

information is obtained.

2. General Lansdale commented in general on his paper of August 31st.
He noted that some of the operational representatives had questioned
whether this was responsive to the changed situation efgisdcred by the
issuance of NSAM 181, but said that this plan had been prepared within
the framework of the previously-approved guidelines (those of August 16).
Mr. Bundy noted that most of the paperwork in response to NSAM 181 has
been done and the President's statement of Tuesday night had clarified
the situation to a considerable degree. He thus felt that the approach

taken in the August 3lst paper was satisfactory.

3. The following specific comments were then made on Activities
listed in the paper: (It should be noted that final approval was not
given to the paper at this meeting.)

a. Mr. Martin said that number 209%

 

was tricky and that

he thought a very careful look should be taken when a specific proposal

HW 54214 DocId:32977062 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION . Kennedy
Assassination Records
AGENCY : NSC ollection Act of 1992
RECORD NUMBER : 145-10001-10166 (44 USC 2107 Note).
RECORDS SERIES : ase#:NW 54214 Date:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 150 Ho-10-2017

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC
FROM : THOMAS A. PARROTT

TITLE : MEMORANDUM
DATE : 09/06/62
PAGES : 5 .
SUBJECTS : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON
OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA ;
COMMENTS

 

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

waa CONCURRENCE OF
DATE:

 

AW 54214 DocId:32977062 Page 1
 

-2-

  
  
 
   
   
 
   
  

is prepared. After considerable discussion, it was agreed that

details should be presented to the Group, to include rT.

   
   

Mr. Marcia felt that number 25 8 :

 

Ge : Ta answet’ to the Chairman's question, Mr. Murrow, ‘supported
by State, said that Radio Swan (number 23) should pe continued even
though it is not entirely effective. This led into a discussion of
the possibilities of intrusion into radio and TV channels in Cuba. Mr.
Murrow explained the far-reaching ‘reactions that the Cubans could mount
against U.S. radio stations, and said that he felt on balance it would ~
not be profitable to provoke this kind of electronic warfare. The Group

asked, however, that a. detailed paper on the pros and cons of such

intrusions, to include the legal aspects involved, be prepared.

d. At General Carter's suggestion, number 21 epee

   

a. . On number 28 (sabotage of assets outside of Cuba), the purpose

‘was changed from crippling to harrassing Cuban commerce.

 

NW 54214 Docld:32977062 Page 3

     

 
 

 

f. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all
Cuban exile groups (number 48) is impractical. The word was changed
to selected.

g. Mr. Marcin cautioned that Yesults of number 50 (actions to

 

be undertaken by other Hemisphere governments) would not be expected
overnight.

h. General Carter urged that, in ‘connection with number 22
Cs General Lansdale should be given more latitude
in working up other deception possibilities. Mr. Bundy felt, on the
other hand, that particularly because of the possible Cuban counter-
measures which had been outlined by Mr. Murrow, the Group should look
at other possibilities in some detail.

i. General Carter felt that a determination should be made as
to how far the U.S, is prepared to go in economic harrassing actions.

He emphasized that sabotage operations such as those under number 27

   
 

will not in themselves be especially effective in wrecking the Cuban

 

HW. 54214. DocId: 32977062 Page 4

 

 
