 

   
  
 
 

- > peo ICONE]
foe | SECURITY inf

JEK AGt™ St:

 
        
 

“13 a Recommendations

The members of the JIPB indicated no further interest in HIBBERD.
e Apparently answered all questions to the best of His ability, Since He
8 in no particular position to observe incidents or objects of good military
intelligence value it is doubted that further interrogation would be productive,

DISTRIBUTION:

10 = G2 DEPTAR

10 - G2 AFFE
- G2 CONUS ARMY (5)
G2 MDW
G2 USARPAC
G2 USARCARIB
File —

NER RE

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45907 DocId:32324510 Page @

 
 

 

OBR OBEt 6

HW 45907

 

$3}

 

he Enemy PsyWar Agencies

[Jona no knowledge of PsyWar Agencies.

9. Activities in Enemy Rear Areas

 

Ya. Enemy: Attitudes

stated that front line troops were more understanding
of PW ‘and would share things with them. The rear area troops, on the other
hand, were’ just the opposite, He could recall no incidents of a friendly
nature on the part of the enemy. He claimed that He made no friends, thinks
bribery would be impossible, and believes Chinese and North Koreans dislike
each other.

 
    

De age, Guerrilla Warfare, and Underground Activity
Ge Labo

d. Psychological Vulnerabilities : .

 

Subject gave no information pertinent to the following:
b, c, and d.

10.. Enemy Intelligence Activities
a. Enemy Intelligence

L__jetates that the guards at camp reported to Regimental

“Headquarters f@ also recalled that the enemy seemed completely supplied

with US. Army TO&Es.

be Communication Security

‘ On this subject mentioned. that He was asked if He knew
any codes. He neither heard nor saw any instances of the enemy monitoring
UN ‘communicatiéns.

ll. Others

had no information on any of the coastal areas in enemy
territory. He remembered that the terrain was mountainous, that traffic was
usually heavy on roads, but that rain would flood roads and snow would cause
land slides. He observed that everything seemed to have been bombed out, but
that the railroads were still operating.

12. Towns, Industry, and Mining
Subject had no information pertinent to this topic.

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32324510 Page 7

 
 

 

HW 45907

 

 

[_|recatiea that, "they talked like they were going to
keep the peace," SS ;

8. Treatment and Internment
a. Treatment of UN Pst

; described His first search as being very light. He
kept His hand grenades after being. searched. He recalled that medical care
was inadequate at first but improved later. He was photographed in early
1952 at Camp #1 but was not fingerprinted. Recreational equipment, consisting
of volleyballe, basketballs, soccerbalis, softballs, ping pong palle, tables,
and nets, cards, chess sets, checkers, and Chinese pool, was available.
Punishment consisted of self-criticism, wood chopping, confinement, hard labor,
and cages. The Chinese issued safeSconduct..passes at the front lines, prom-
sing good treatment and medical care for the wounded. Routine work at camp
consisted of wood gathering, ration handling, and general company details.

 

b. Enemy Interrogation

2. questioned about the
ferent colored flares,

. Later He was asked
@.and history.

Immediately after capture b
organization of His unit, about the meaning of the ai
and why UN troops, had a search light on all of the ti
personal questions, including His past military trainin

   

    

 

  

c. Prison Camps and Staging Areas aa

(1) Mining Camps - located in a medium sized valley with a
small river running through it. The camp contained an ore processing plant
and had cable buckets coming to it a meee See (The stream was always
milky from the ore processing. While was there the Psli, population
was approximately 400, He couldinot estimate the number of Ps® ‘of the
various UN nationalities. ao ij 7

(2) Camp #1 1s described by|__ Jas being located in the
village of CHANGSONG, The village and camp were ina small valley with a
river runnihg through it. At the time o linternment the PsW
population was about 1400 British and Americans. \

(3) From the place ‘of His capture near NUNG-COL, korea, __|
was marched , always at night, along mountain paths, roads, and ratiroads to

the "Mining Camp". From the "Mining Camp".He was again marched under identical
conditions to Camp #1. ’

ad. Camp Administration
[__]isted the following as being in Camp #1:

(1) Headquarters of all camps.

  

crs are ARON nf 8 TEA Ny

‘CONFI

MATION |

 

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32324510 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ly’
(2) Three Regimental Commanders
(3) Three Regimental Instructors
(4) Company Commanders
(5) Assistant Company Commanders
(6) Company Instructors
(7) Platoon Leaders
(8) Platoon Instructors
Ko 8. Mail and Censorship
7 . [__]recetvea approximately 40 letters, intermittently,
during His confinement. All of the letters were o received, and He
was limited to three (3) outgoing letters a month. mentioned that
the Chinese tried to influence the Pell, by explaining what they were to write
in their letters. eet
- £. US Broadeaste Periodicals and News Rele
SRE BS, atated that US broadcasts were not heard in camp, and
the only literature He saw was the Readers Digest, cartoons, and sports news.
—e thet Radio MOSCOW was heard a few times a
week and Radio PEIPING every night. Newspapers, magazines, and other pub-
lications emanating from the following listed countries were available: -.
a) China: |
(a) China Monthly Review
(b) Peoples China
(c) Shanghai News
(a) China Pictorial
(2) U.S.S.R.
(a) Soviet Literature
Op) Novels by Marx, Lenin, Stalin, and Engels
(3) Bulgaria
(a) Bulgaria Today
(4) Czechkoslovakia
(a) Czeckoslovakia Life
(5) Britain
(a) London Daily Worker
(o) I Appeal
(6) U.S, , -
(a) New York Daily Worker —
(b) National Guardian
NW 45907 DocId:32324510 Page 6

 
 

 

HEADQUARTERS SIXTH hig
PRESIDIO OF SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, Gea2

   

6 November 1953

co pt Hee

nieCLag Po ray...

OG wd pl.

pees yesh
[svoro gD mec

GENERAL MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY
RECAP-K PHASE III INTERROGATION

SUBJECT :

 

ALL FBI I ;
a | INFORMATION CONTAINED

me SELL safest

BACKGROUND INFORMATION (TEM

Ce | corporat, Caucisian, ‘ppatrcone) (2)

  

 
 

Subject surrendered to the CCF at NUNG-GOL, Korea on 18 May 1951. |
Subject stated that His group which was down to three (3) men, was surrounded
and they were trying to fight their way out when they surrendered.

When He surrendered Subject had a Heavy Weapons MOS, ‘He acted as a
platoon runner, assistant radio operator and ammo bearer in Company D, Ist
Battalion, 38th Regiment, 2nd Division.

Subject was returned to UN contro] at "PANMUNJON" on 19 Aug 53. He
was returned to CONUS on the USNS Marine Adder on 5 Sep 53.

In the Psychiatric Survey it was stated that Subject was marched to
the north for nine (9) days after his surrender, but then managed to escape
for four (4) days before His recapture. No other details given,

Subject was interned at the following locations:

CAMP OR PLACE LOCATION oe DATES
"Mining Camp" . (none given) _ July - 18 Sep 51
Camp #2 CHANGSONG 6 Oct 51 - 13 Aug 53

1. War Crimes and Atrocities,
we RSS es was present at the "Mining:Camp" from Jun 51 to Sep 51
when approxima PsW, mostly American, died of malnutrition, dysentery s
and exposure. can testify that many PsW were without shoes and
possessed only the minimum of clothing. - p '

2. Escape and Evasion foo 4 MQ) 938 Si%q |
Copy__ 2 ~ of. 2 * _<___ Gopies

  

 

   

A JENTIA Ad |

ny

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 45907 DocId:32324510 Page 2

 
 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
- RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

v9.1
HW 45907

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Docld: 32324510

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-90029-10002

HQ

CR 100-408384-1

Document Information

ARMY
USA

11/06/1953
7

THOMAS R. PEASNER
[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

3

Redact

09/15/1998

APPROVAL OF USA

SUMMARY;

Page 1

Date:

Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 45907 Date:

6/8/2015

Released under the John

 
 

i design.

 
  
     

HW 45907

 

 

Subject claims to have knowledge of escaps attempts, but further ques-
tioning discloses that He had reference to several spur of the moment and
abortive efforts on the part of individual prisoners.

3. UN Propaganda Broadcasts and Leaflets

 

waw one leaflet drop approxinately 50 miles north of the
38th parallel in Central Korea. Later He had oéGaaion to observe one of the
leaflets closely, and He remembers that it pictured an oriental begeing for.
food. He saw some of the leaflets piled up in“a Korean house and others
being used as wall paper.

4. Foreign Weapons and Equipment
- [___Jeouts » not recall seeing weapons or equipment of unusual

Y
5. Health and Medical Service

had but meager knowledge of this subject. He made no
“mention of the prevalence of any disease, and the only medical facility He
observed was the hospital at Camp #1. He describes this as a small insti-
tution capable of handling 30 patients at one time. The attendants were
very poorly trained; and, while drugs and equipment were in evidence, they
were used sparingly. -[__Feealiea that there was a marked difference
“in the food and living 8 ards of the CCF and the native Koreans. This

as not because the CCF had plenty, but because the North Korean civilians
oad so Little. :

 

 

Communi at Political Indoctrination

ei the full range of indoctrination consisting of
lectures, study periods, conferences, and Communist reading matter. He was
told to ask His friends and relatives at home to fight for peace and to
have them petition their senators.

 

 

 

”. Chinese North Korean, and Soviet Army, Na and Air Force

Be Military Ingtallation
stated.that He saw about twelve (12) jet bombers

(1)
and fifteen (15) MIG fighter planes land approximately 10 miles south of
PYONGYANG -on: or about 15 Aug 53. .

(2) Early in His captivital Jeon a repair plant at the
Mining Camp. The plant contained a machine shop equiped with lathes, milling
machines, drill presses, and electric welding equipment.

 

(3) remembered that He saw a radio station at CHANGSONG,
Camp #1, while He:was interned there. A Pst, who claimed to be familiar with

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32324510 Page 3

 

 
 

 

 

—

HW 45907

 

Ma holes .

| fal of 1982.

 yadio equipment, told Him that the station had a range of 10 megacycles, and
was the center-fed antenna type.

bs Military Movement

. Cp recesea that approximately 1500 southbound enemy troops
moved through Camp #1 in Jun 53.

“@. Military. Construction
Subject's only observation of military construction was at

PYONGYANG while enroute to PANMUNJCN for repatriation. He said that the
Chinese were laying new railroad tracks.

d. Special Defensive Measures
(1) at Camp #1[__ reported, that the CCF used bunker-
type shelters covered with logs and dirt. Tree branches and limbs were used
as camouflage on positions and trucks. In the Winter time the trucks were
splashed with white wash.

(@) Camp #1, was completely encompassed by a trench and fox
©) Large ‘amount of food were delivered to Camp #1 in the

a ate: raids were fairly regular at Camp #1 during
internment. The air raid signal 5 was communicated by a siren. Blackouts ~-
were frequently enforced. .

(5) Nearer the front uines,[__]notteea that the.air raid
alert Fas signaléd by rifle fire. — 7

‘ee Military Trainin

\ Td recalls seeing military training during His captivity
but He does not say, where, whenor whom He saw training. He remembered that

the training consisted of hand grenade practice and small unit maneuvers.
f. Personalities

a had no knowledge of any important enemy personalities
at the camps of His internment. : ;

g. Chemical, Biological, Radiological (CBR)

Subject saw no evidence of CBR equipment in North Korea...

h. Enemy Intentions

 

al

 

 

 

 

DocId:32324510 Page 4
