[Reteased under thé John F. Kennedy Assas

 

‘DATES 14-14-2017 . Ms ae
‘ 4 i

8

—e os sae SECRET.
«Bo 7
“CONFIDANTIAL

Servies either, and Uspiedage or Counterenepionage work would sound
too stvong end jorring on tho ear in Ruseiaa. Bogeuse of this,

\. Heheteg hed ¢o hesitate end at this manent ft besame aware of She

falsity in the atmoephere and propered myself for either "detret _
Service" op a detailed daseripsion of the work 1 wan engaged ins

_., When finally Mp. Yoletej seid, emilingly, “Seexet
Sorvice* I replied that 1 wae very much puseled by the kaowledse of
« Bitehio whe apparently kuew so much about my past ana could be

8o prong about my present pacupati on: The deseription of ay peat
wae correst - I was not going to deny it, but was prou@ of it. As
feg.ae thé lemediate past was eonserned, Military Intelligence was
simply guevding Gexnen prisoners of way. at prepent I work in one -
of the Departments af the Getional Researeh Connei], which hes
nothing te do with suy work go meladramatieally veferred to as.
"Seoret Services". With thie I enanged the sonveraation and saia
thet whee Rugsians mest abrecd they want (very neturally) ¢o know

#11 about esen other and past experiences. Since Mrs Talstoj knew

go much ebout me, I would like te know eomething ebout him. ~~

- His aeeount of hie pest was very involved, was not related
ehronologieslly saG bed many gape. Sines IT a14 not ish te make

him feel thet I-hed eertein susploions ebeut him I 414 net eress

question Bt 412. He told me that be belonged to one of the breaches

‘of the TOLSTOS familys The fomily ia Jarge end hes meny breichos.

Such e etatement cannot bo Ghallenged by ony ene but snother
menbor of the Toletoj femily. His father, a Major General, hed

nO lend but depended for his ineome on apartment houses ia
Petrograd, (many nenbers of the Toletej family hed lerge oni __
well-knowt apertaents there), He was educated in the HIKOLARVSKId .
gadet school in Potrograé. That is strange for a Tolsto) « “PRE.
Seheoi of His Majestio's Pages wes e much better soneok in 3

way ang catvy into thia sahool was a great privilege. Up to the
Revolution the Toletej*s had 32 members at thet gehool. His parents

eertainiy bad the right to eivoll him as @ page, instend thoy
preferred for sono inexplieable ronson te envoll him in aa :
ordiasry osdet school, which scéns very uiiikely. If they refrained
froa ontering thelr gon in the derps of rages, they vould have a
entered him’ia the Imperial Liceo. I toek this statement of
foletej's as a stetenent which I sould not disprove. If he said

he wae @ page, I eould easily convinee ayself of his being “a pagos

After completing nie atudies et the cadet aehool, he woulé

novmelly heve gone to an Officers Training Sehool i.e. the first
. a ; L/-/0WVP -2F
CONT ENTIAL rope, oo

every

sination Records Colleétion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotes.

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 9
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (42 Use ZU? aa

‘DATE : ‘11-14-2017 oa i .. ®

voles. Oe CN, SECRET:

ae ; oe ee

ee CONFIRENTIAL

first. Company. of the Corps of Pages (for which he had the necessary
qualifications) or to the HIKOLAEVSKIS Cavalyy School (natural
énough for a WIKOLAEVSKIS cadet}. After two years of @ither of
these two he would graduate as an officer. Instead, Tolstej —
enlisted as a volunteer in the Chevalier Guards Regimént: This’
for an ex cadet is an unbelievable performance and can be explained
Only by two considérations. He had to Say thet he was a Chevalier ~
‘Guard to make me feel more sympathetics he could not very well say
that he was an officer in that regiment as there would.be cross ~

questioning” on'my part: So Mr. Tolstoj told me that he enlisted ag

  
 

 

 

-@ volunteer (private) and went to the Training barracks oa!
(BRECHEVITSKIE KAZARMY). Such a career made it impossible for me to
cheek its veracity, espeeially as all. this happened years before I
even finished the Corps of Pages (Tolstoj told me that he is now 58).

 

Since he never served with the regiment as an officer he
must heve left the regiment in a year with the rank of Ensign of
_ the Resexve and would Imve been called up @uring World War I. He
‘G@id not mention by a single word his farther military servicé. . :
He went to study at the Sehool’ (University) of Railroad Engineering, -

| Such @ Gareer can be deseribed only as erratic and makes it
| impossible for me to cheeky oe Se

  

__ ‘Then comes a rather long gep in his recollections. He  _
does not mention his participation in Worla War I at all (strange for
a soldier talking to another soldier, and being an Ensign. of the .
Reserve he could not escape it.) He did not: mention the, Revolution.
He 414 not excuse himself, a Tolstoj and an ex guardsman, for not

; having joined the White Amhy += thig is almos$ a rule for any

. Russian who wants to ingratiate himself with a White Amy man.
Next I find that after the Revolution folstoj lived in Freahee (his
French ie rathér poor for a man who lived in France for a number of
years), in Germany, Sweden, and finally settled as.a well-knom
portrait painter in Oslo, Norway. He is now a Norwegian sub ject.-
Sometime during his life abroad he married a ‘Leatvien girl. While

_ he wes in Norway hie wife, a cousip.ef his and a school “comrade®

made their.way from east Germany to the western zone, o¢cupied
by the: Americans. There they took o.small house and settled dowa
to wait for folstej to meke 1% possible for them to ‘go to Norway.

 

 

 

' Qne day Russian soldiers came into. the american zone and visited —
the housé of Mrs. Tolstoj. ‘The next night. they returned and "shot .
up" the whole household. Mrs. Tolstoj. escaped with & wound. fhe
two mon were killed. Tolstoj nearly cried while telling me +hYs

conribenTiat b/-10V UG -27

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 10

i
“4

 
 

 

 

Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 UST 7i07 ware e).

DATED 11-14- -2017 Po - . L a,
oe ee OM, secre
we Bie . : : ue |
“CONFIENTIAS Co

adv goy feionds by that ade in any port of Usapda. fe the best
of my knowledge I heve never met & man by that name duriag my
amy Gereor or eledwhore, therefore 16 ia very grange that thie
Nao Bitenie sould hove ao ‘eb inform tioa chout my pact. :

(a) If ough e man oxiste and no seve Me. Toletag wo
meob Uaforms tion about wo D-would very ma: dike is know fron
whon he ebtaingl it.

(3) Up te the lst of June I was. residing eb 362 Friel :
“G00 004 moved €o $11 Leurlev Beat (Apt. 3) a Ou that dete. .
I beve not written to any of my Prienda 4a Hon week oF eleouhere : oS
sinede, Be that poboay kaows mow addyoas with the exeeption ef :
thé offiee im which I wark ead a very tow poopie in Ottawe.

i

(4) fie. Ritenie, on for thet meatier, nobody an wan tread
doula know wy pregent sddrese. Ly former addres@ eould 4
Sbesines fvon the voters liots ponteden atrast sorners, but i
nee none Polete) would. have bed ee Vielb S68 Priel and sak for

he Pes i

(3) On the eveniuig of Pridey 10 Juno, ny wife phoned our
ex lend=ledy end her org thar Pres found ovis £O ene wee daguiring —
ebaut mé on thet dey. My f¢ Slee phoaed the owsy ofthe house,
a Mves Brunet, whe.aiso told her thet no one inquired about ao.
Later Friday ovening at wy wequest my wife phoned long diatamee and

gored to be eonnceted with a Mr. Aigehie ia Montras} who is 5 te
director of a Canadien Testiag Chenisel Cempony. hong distenee wae
very go0perstive but flnelly replied that there ere three comnenies
in wa executiv Gealiag with Ghentotay ¢ and none Bae a Leia Rit ebie as
Bn ezeoutlyds

(6) waa tre Rostes was telking to me edeus al} ‘thot ho |
know about me fram Ritenie, Ke wig talking in Racsiea ené very” ;
quiekly. Before sayine Re ‘osated gow wlth the Seoret Serries® |
he povioed ee if Looking for the right word. The tayortenca of this
peuge ig as felleve: "seeret sevice is a tern ae havi ng Be os

ogeivelant’ ia Bagpien and 4t etnaot be trensleied very ve a
torally. . there ig ne word for Latelidgence ~ if Colates “used tho

SVEDEA G8 KRONTWRARVEDEA be would be ubing a purely a
bolenovik term chich he obviously €14 not went te fo. ‘The ond
taperiad word for wah ty Inte, igence would aot éo for Seared

cori ENTIAL Br POUEE ~2 PR
_ SECRET a

 

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 6
 

 

 

Reeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassanation Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC OT Hgts
DATES “4 14-2 JN / a. Soe
Sabie Whe ! - . SEcRep
ae '

bpew peturming hove fron the adfiee on Pridey loth |
( ias “novie's) i found in my apextment a vieiter awaiting uy POvarh.
Ho wes gonversing with my wife im belting French. wife
introduces hin te me as 8 dompatatot fee NPARAPRL he riquae af ROLSLOT

fhe gentlemen wae over 6 feet tell, inolined to
stovtness end slightly eteoped. Biond but greying end hed @ slight
beard. Hie eyes wore GLB watery and very inslagere. |

I asked hie to remaia for lunch. Aber lumch (ec wolk |
ee during the meal) he to14 me the purpose of his wielt and some |
detalle of bis ppeb. Mle whole vielt en@ eli thet he told me a
goavinged me that that the purpose of hig vielt woe wet the one he - i
iealeted it to te bus some thing quite different, and the} I wad
simply baiag "eleed up™. — -

 

Before starting ay seport on my - gonvareation wh bh ee ; /

- folated, I wish to stete thet.I Gid not want to leave hia with tho”

impression tha¢ 1 wae net taking Ain et his fece velue ov se tho \
person he whehed we to believe him #6 bas Bacaues of this 1 aia | ~
nob de any oreas ezaminiag and 412 not agk fox any proof of bis
statenents. My Firat renagk to him wag an expreselon of Thy,
ou Lee thet ene to me end Daszed hin we whe t614 him to contact

Ottewa. Mes Polste] replied that o gook friené of his, @ Wr.

Ritente & director of a Cenadian Teeting Ohewleal Company in
Montreal, advise? him to go to Gttewe ani ses me. (Polstej's Gne~
gay visit to Otteuwn wes eeoording to ne for the special purpese
of vigiting me.) When Mr. Bitehie mentioned my asme, Tolntog
(gecerding ta hie gievenont to “ae) déemursed and aia that he. was
afealé te nees eny of his oompatriates aa they may be communists.
My, Bitehie leughed and replied. thet be should heve no fears on |
my eeeount, ef I ea an exevage of the Eaperors Cours, on ex-hovse |
puerdemena, @n almost fanatlesl monasrehiet, a man whe joined the — [
White Aray et the very atert, an ex Rusalen intelligence officers. ‘
Q@ mon whe served with tho Canadien Military tabelligenoe end who a
even now ie engaged in "Seeret Serviee" work. Before x go say
further I wast make the following poists: —

Beer yar have no friend in Montres by,,sho: wala of Hi tonic

De 7 coNnrit WEEN ENCLOSURE ae '
—— SECRET | ~ 10 op gy ~ X77 Decassty on: OADRED/94

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 7
fReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Usc 2107

i

 

 

  

 
 

 

   
 

DATE: derwa-2au7. | s a ; en
rs wf | : } C) a _ : Cis . . .
. | )o lt ~ SECRET |
@ : United States Department of Justice
3 . Hederal Bureau of Investigation = AIR MAIL :
3 : ' |
3 Liaison Office, Ottawa, Canada
e . . July 13, 19h9 ,
S22 we. J. Bdgar Hoover: . CONF ISENTIAL

z i Director ; °

woe Federal Bureau of Investigation 1E94 9 A

= Yi S UeS. Department of Justice < A ytd

 

™,
!

 

    
 

&

  

EISO>MS/i3 fre

Jt solicit CHRAMTCHENKO's assistance in disposing of some 6
oy

s ‘aph starting at |
v / the bottom of page five of CHRAMTCHENKO's statement 1 is we -.

  
  

Washington, D.C,
soe hath.

  

J TOLsTOs3)_— POLS TOY

f Special ‘Inquiry - ROMP “ap ,

     

submitted to the RCMP by one .M.ACHRAMTCHENKO covering details

of a visit he had in Ottawa with\an Individual who furnished

his name as TOLSTOJ. CHRAMTCHENKO, a former White Russian

now residing in Ottawa where he is employed by the Canadian
National Research Council on work of a classified nature, and .
where he is considered quite reliable, voices certain suspicions ©

_.of TOLSTOJ. These suspicions, which are set forth in some
Vyetat in the enclosure, were aroused since TOLSTOJ told what

ppeared an illogical story concerning the circumstances lead-

a person by the name of\VRITCHIE in Montreal furnished

wing up to the contact AATNCHIE 30 on TOLSTOJ claimed that

SS. CHRAMTCHENKO's address fo him ‘and CHRAMTCHENKO claims that he ad -
Nc knows nobody by the name of RITCHIE, that it was very odd ; eS
‘y that TOLSTOS should know as much of CHRAMTCHENKO's background.
Nie he was able to relate, and further, that he, CHRANTCHENKO,

had only recently changed his: address in Ottawa and that it ~

SXwoula have been impossible for any casual acquaintance, such
=

8 RITCHIE would have to have been, to have known his present

sR address. Further, CHRAMTCHENKO indicates that TOLSTOJ's back- os
Oy ground and past activities as related during a conversation

did not appear logical. It is quite evident that CHRAMTCHENKO '

  
  
  

paintings as TOLSTOJ tried to have the informant believe.
. . a So

bayer eee ET

 

‘It will be noted that in the paragrap

  

  

ovmp | om 4
COPIES DESTR yo a A
R362 Juni 1961 ye Se. RECORDED 128

. INDEXED Bf

  

 

LSECREP

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 5
 

Released under — the, ohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection’ Act of - 1992, Lae Use; 210T Ho te}.
a DATE:, ‘Ly yid- 2017"

. os anh 4 “ . - ves te — 2 wes aN . . : -
> re . : 7 - poo . .7 a ‘- _ oy . .
co ba + ’ . wae os i . 5 + > Loe : : -
oes . poe Se ae vou . eet C : . - ” ~ fps soe
‘ nt " - , re . Ls : ‘ :
4 : . . . . . ” , ae , . eee . .
_ 8 : . L . f : . Loe

 

 

mentioned that TOISTOT stated that after returning: to Nontreal
. he was. proceeding to New York to visit -his cousin, Countess sont
‘* POLSTOT » | who owns a farm in the: vicinity, of New York CLtYey A)

. : The. RCMP . are conducting an investigation ‘in yon? Ue
to an an effort to trace ‘the man named. RITCHIE. who TOLSTOT claimed “~—~ -
coe “had put him in touch with CHRAMTCHENKO. ‘The .RCMP ‘have also. v
SoS asked that if it is possible an effort be made’ to determine | oO :
-| Af ‘the TOLSTOT who was in Canada. actually has recently. visited an
“ . . P the Countess TOLSTOJ. If he has'visited the relative in New. ~. —~.--
oo _ York’ and brief. information. can’ -bée_obtained relative to: his , roo!
_ °] background . and confirmation that -he is-a painter, then the ==
_, | suspitions aroused while he. wisited in Ottawa’ will be shown, wh
‘ / to be without foundation. GY. nn Be rn
., Ss ‘The ‘ROMP ‘advise . At the Canadian imigration“records . ;
a reveal that one ALEKS AND TOLSTOY arrived in Quebec’ City, - as
Canada on May 31,~199~sboard the: “Empress of France."- He was
: ’ allowed entry on a three months. ‘temporary visa to. visit the .
|. Norwegian: Consul in-Montreal. This individual's age is: given =. :
“as 53, . born in St. Petersburg, Russia,..and a Norwegian citizen - .
“. 6f-Russien Pace. He is in possession of Passport No. ‘203, SL ,
_ ‘Assued at. Oslo, Norway on April 6,.19l9. Although the ~:~ °
individual on whom the Immigration have a record arrived in _
Cenada by boat and the subject claimed to have flown to
Montreal, Canada -from. London, it seems that there is a distinct ’
. possibility these persons are identical. (6),

‘

: - It would ‘be very helpful if. inquiries could be. maae -
~, °. at,the residence of the Countess TOLSTOJ as requested by the °
ci ,, RCMP and this office advised of the results wat as early date.

, : as ractical. . ; Te
oe Be “by . yt ete

eo Very ‘truly yours,. eo: po

ey Ta!

 

 

x

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 6
 

 

"Released under ‘the John F. Ken
DATE: 11-14-2017 - :

   

sassination Repords Sottection Act of” 1992 (44 UST 210

 

 

[ oes -

| - _

) Coe em : - mL, <

P re . JULY 29, 1949 >

- < a - : as ea voy i ue

~ Oe e SONERENT AL: SAC, NEW YORK.......(URGENT. 4.004.
TOLSTOS: ___.__ TOLSTOY [Sercia INQUIRY, RCMP REBULET

— : : Ss) ,
. es ‘'TWENTYSEVEN LAST, DISCONTINUE INVESTIGATION, foo
. E oe, ite . ; :
edo & a ane Bey HOOVER

R
sy, Dee

; ALL Thivomear ron CONTA TIE, _ ;
HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIED. 0.’ .
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN ~~
OPHERWESE ~

corres pesTROvED 7 < .
‘RBG uns £1 Sa Re

 

BERERERNER :

 

 

 

 

 

' Docld:32298994 Page 2?

 

 

      
  
   

 

  
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 Usc 2107 Hote;.

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System . Date: 6/10/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10224-10274
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: — 61-10448-27, 28
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, OT
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/13/1949
PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS : ;
. [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 01/13/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : INC 2 LTR, MEMO, TTY

 

v9.1
DoclId:32298994 Page 1
 

  

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 Usc 3107 Hot eS).

‘DATE: 11-14-2017 . a 4 R.

  

wf

lod a eee aA 7 ‘eto
| United States Aepartment of Justice -

Bederal Bureau of Investigation ot:
Liaison Office, Ottawa, Canada

 
  
  
 
  

 

CONF DRENTIAL
AIRMAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover,

Director, .
; Federal Bureau of investigation,
pt U.S. Department of Justice,
pa Washington, DeCe

 

Wa Re: ® po1sto};
lis . . f Special Inquiry ~

ok Dear Sir:
®

i Reference is made to a letter from this Office
dated July 13, 1949, captioned as above fogwarding &
‘ request from the R.C.M.P. to have Countes#Tolstoj, who
7 owns a farm in the vicinity of New York City, intérviewed

relative to a person of the same name claiming to be
a > a relative. of hers and who had come under suspicion in
: gonneotion 6) a visit to one M. Chramtchenko in

CCAWae Q_(3

 

. ; . The ReCoMeP. now advise that their oe eet eat ion
. has shown that the original suspicions of Tolstoj are
ye unfounded, that he actually had been in Ottawa during
ve, .Jdune, 194 and contacted Chramtchenko in ‘connection with

a his desire to dispose of some paintings, and that he had
poe through mutual acquaintances obtained considerable

Daf information concerning Chrantchenko. R £4)

ran In view of the results of the R.C.M.Pe inquiry
‘ : they now advise that it is not necessary to interview

\

Countess Tolstoj and that no action is necessary relative hey .

\to this matter. K 6) ae

; . Very truly yours,

So oe

ope Hea gf i -
_Declasly on Sones Ce Tg ee .

ae ; ‘Glenn’ Hy be ia a2 “S|

ALL Dern RMATION CON TAINED
{ts CE

 

 

 

  

a __‘SECREY oe

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 3
 

 

 

 

 

(BAU How York 0 7 ane “auty 2 2s 1089
° ne . { NTA
'. Direstor, FARE ook : " Bufile Sle104aes |

   
   
 
  

cCONTATIZD
ED

  

ee

. z 19495. received ‘from Glenn H, Bethel'of the Liainen Office in Ottawa, Cansda.

oS Aa you will note, ‘Eire Bethel enelodes a c aix page memorandum with his. letters
A copy of this six page memorandum fs also-sneloged. with » this letters These
two enclesures are self-explanatory. tA: coe

vo the investigation desired. is also outlined in these ti ‘gnclosuras.e
Tb. ie beliaved ‘that the Countess Tolétej mentioned in the enclosure ig in
cet Hiss Alexandra Tolstoy, alee, Countess Tolstoy, W483, You are,ine  -
structed. te iaterview "485 concerhing the information outlined in the -
onelosed wenoranduis i Rhis interview should ‘ho condueted imnediately- end.
tha resu tts. subeitted: ‘preaptly so that the informtion oan ‘be furnished se

  
   
 
     
 

MAILED 4 —_
JUL 27 1949 P.M.

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32298994 Page 4

“there Le. enéloaed with this letter a copy of a. “Letter dated ‘July. 185

FC nen Z sa 7 :

 
