 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of'1992? (44 USC 2107 Hotey.
DATE: 11- ~14- 2017

. ~
e — cP. . ‘ . *

w/ ; HN

os

°

emorandun to Mr. ‘Rosen —_
e - American Gambling Activities in oubaey XK).

fMover ans! and Associates May Be Using Cliff Jones as Front

 

: In Downey Rice! s report to Hilton Hotels, unnamed
Mtunderworld soure e. quoted as having said ‘that Meyetjtansky
be and Abner "Longie‘ZWillman are the principals in the operation
wy ef thé Havana Hilton. casino. being "fronted" by Cliff Jonesy”

 

Cliff Jonés and his” “law Piri (Jones and Wiener) are. known to have
represented several of the leading gambling establishments in
Las Vegas, Nevada, and investigation by the Nevada State
Tax Commission and the Kefauver Committee brought out that
iJones actually held a proprietary interest in some of the
igambling casinos. One of these was the Thunderbird and another
was the Tropicana.. It has been established that a loan of
. ,several hundred thousand dollars was made by Meyer and Jake
WN (Tansey to Ypstonliicks, the principal of record in the Thunderbird.»
WA Also, Jakeflansky has reported.income from the Thunderbird in
; his Federal income tax-returns. When Frank Costello was shot
and slightly wounded in New Yerk in 1957, the police found on
his person a.slip of paper bearing figures which exactly
corresponded with a particular operation of the casino in
the Tropicana. There had been allegations previously that
Io. Costello was "in" the Tropicana, Ae”

 

 

| ; Meyer Lansky's participation in Havana, Cuba, gambling
activities dates back at least to the 1930's although his tenure -
there may not have been continuous since that time. . There have
been a number of press articles in which it was alleged that
in effect Lansky is President Batista's unofficial "czar" @. yew
gambling. ring thé past week Lansky has been in NYC‘and :
while there was: “picked Up bythe NYCPD and questioned concerning
the Anastasia murder according to-the press. He is stated
to have been charged with vagrancy.and released on $1,000 bonds
Also, in press reports Seed Minister Santiago Rey of Cuba My
fis quoted as stating tk ‘L not be readmitted to |
Cuba and that the Cub ill take steps to prevent mp

the entrance of pergo ther countries for criminal i.
activities. (® aa :

foe

 

 

    
 

. & Fhe Legal Attache at ‘Havana, Cuba, has received
| angormatic indicating the possibility that Meyer Lansky is
“well wired" with high political figures in Cuba Fotential 2
Criminal Informant Goffredo Cellini who is assoc Be with — 8

Meyer and Jake Lansky at the Hotel Nacional casino has related

bo Lae

DoclId:32328101 Page 2

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90068-10052
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-75147-210-112

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PRICE
TO: ROSEN
TITLE:

DATE: 02/28/1958
PAGES: 5

 

SUBJECT: | AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL Unclassified NEW
CLASSIFICATION: CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 06/24/1998 UPDATE DATE:

STATUS _ Redact . .
RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: MEMO

‘DocId: 32328101 Page 1
" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC Di07 Hotey.

 

as,

 

DATE: 11j14- -2017 ; Poe
Pos K ae
ae yo se ‘ ro : °
oa vous 7 o Ny .

emorandum to Mr. Rosen ry. ;
Ais - Gambling Activities in Cubgl( nw

 

  
  

cites 20 ny Ay be.
to the Attache that a represehtapive of Andres¥River6¥egnero, —““——
Cuban Prime. Minister, had beerl“in.touch with Jake Lansky.
Rivero Aguero has frequently been mentioned as the candidate
of the Ctban,Government coalition parties to succeed President
Batista in.elections scheduled to be hela in June, 1958.
Rivero Aguero! s _represehtative, Suar vas, advised uch.
Jake Lansky that Rivero Aguero had indicated that for a “Sontribu- ,
tion of $3,000 a month-from each of the casinos at the Hotels
Nacional, Havana Rivera and Capri, Meyer Lansky could be assured
of encounter ing no difficulty with the Cuban Government. The
informant said that Jake Lansky indicated that he would not
"sit still for the shakedown" and simply refused to pay any:
: sum at all to Suarez Rivas for Rivero Aguero. Informant.said~
ne that he got the impression from Jake Lansky that the latter
apparently believed that his brother, Meyer, was sufficiently .
well connected with the Cuban Government and so had no desire
to start lining the pockets. of the potential ‘candidates for
the Presidency. The informant in this matter was ina good
position to obtain the foregoing information in view of the
fact that he acted as interpreter between Suarez Rivas and-

Jake Lansky. * , .

If reports are true that Cliff ‘Jones is "fronting"
in the Havana Hilton for Meyer Lansky ,. Lansky's connection in
‘that group could conceivably be indicative of good political
connections in Cuba. One of the group, -Reberto Mendosa, has-
a brother Mario, who is a prominent lawyér and reputedly is
legal adviser to the Cuban Government. Qda~

~ : In view of the above, it will be interesting to see
if Lansky is denied readmittance to Ho Cuba ¥e)
ia hn

ACTION:

The situation concerning American gambling. activities
in Cuba is being followed closely in connection with the Top
Hoodlum Program. (} y

 

 

 

DoclId:32328101 Page 3

 
