Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Refords Collection Act of 1992 (44 Use 2107 ote}.
DATE: 11-14-2017 . : ; . . . ‘ we

Cc a - 7 OO

Memorandum to Mr: Sullivan =, ga
Re: LEE HARVEY OSWALD El Pe )
105-S2555 Qaviiist

 

alt

Statement: Oswald prudently transferred. his political activities to
New Orleans (date not indicated) as Dallas is a city that _
jeans to the right and because of local Dallas police
vigilance against communist-type activity. ae

Fact: Oswald left Dallas and traveled to New Orleans in late April,
: 1863, as he was cut of work and at the urging of his wife due to |
his having attempted to assassinate General Walker on April 10, .
1963. The inference that Oswald feared Dallas police vigilance -
is nonsense for he returned to the Dallas area five months later
to Live, . . 7 a

‘Statement: it-is FBI responsibility to make dissemination to am .

; : Secret Service but there is historical evidence that proper
dissemination is not always made at the Washington level, |
in support he cites that in 1945 the Royal Canadian. . {
Mounted Police (RCHP) told the Bureau about Klaus Fuchs — :
who they suspected was a Soviet agent, however, the FBI |
took mo action, He aiso cites. that in 1960 the FBI... 4
collected damaging information about Bernon F. Mitchell .__.- i
and William H, Martin, National Security Agency (NSA) —
employees, and again failed to alert anyone after which
Hitcheil and Martin fled to Cuba thence to Russia where :
they compromised U. 8. Secret codes throughout the world, |.

 

Fact: The name of Fuchs and his British address came to attention of
> | ROMP after arrest of Israel Halperin in February, 1946, as a. :
result of the disclosures of Igor Gouzenko, Soviet Code Clerk oo
who defected in Canada in 1945, Halperin, a Canadian, was ‘ 4
ned by Gouzenko as a member of a Soviet military intelligence
network in Canada, Fuchs’ name and his address in England were in
an address book and diary in Halperin’s possession, . The book
end diary were furnished to the Bureau on 3-12-46 and names and
addresses of Americans appearing in the documents were furnished
“to the field, The documents were furnished by the Canadians to
the British and no action was taken by the Bureau with respect.
_ to individuals living abroad. ehs first ce ft an espionage (3)

 

'. Suspect in’ 1949 on the basis of[Bureau Source 5]information (not
to ke disseminated). We, however, advised the British and in
danuary, 1950, Fuchs confessed in England to his espionage...

‘activities, When Mitchell and Martin defected to the Soviets =. +
in June, 1960, we had never conducted any investigation of —
them nor had we received any allegations concerning them, .:

N ’

 

 

 

DoclId:32319369 Page 5
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 usc 2107 Hote).

SDATE: 11-14-2017 °: oo, a wa a ai ee! a
. Nona” N +

   

Er. A. BH. Belmont

-

ue. ¥. €C, Sullivan

LEE BARVEY OSUALD
18 - BR - CUBA

 

SYROPS IS

. Purpese of memorandum ia ta explore allegation Lee Nervey
Gevald eas FBI infergant and related soiats covered by President's
Commission lest veek during appearance before Commission of Reary Wade,
Bistriet Attersey of Dallas County, Texas, snd to set ferth purevant to |
Director's request (1) precedures wo uge in development and control of i
Be FEI informants, (2) the system used in bandiling informants in Special :
| Intelligence Service (S18) program, and (3) details concerning Wade's '
SIS service while in the FRI,

 

‘ . Contrary to testimony, Oswald was never PEI informant, was

| never paid semey for information and was never Sagigned any symbol

| number, Procedures we wwe in informant program preclude the possibility

| of Osvald's connection with FRI as an informant without unowledge af  ”
Seat of Government, - °

4 We closely gupervise a1] aspects of iaforrant program, Field
; offices canrget develop security inforazantsa without Bureau authorization,
@hieh ig based on exhaustive background investigation te determine

reliability, trustworthiness and stability. 5
When we de authorize, we follow infermast’a devolopmest
i through progress letters which field offices subsit at four-month
‘ intervals, .
re

Bs ¥e approve use of symbols and cede names, maintaia an index :
F (of these anduone may be used twiee by the same field office. i
; . Fe author ‘ise payments on regular basis and maintain current
4 recerds of every expenditure made showing to whem made and chy.
4 ‘

i GAC hes only limited authority to make payments without

z| Bureau authority in certain ingtances and we contre] this by Limiting
a amount, and by end-ef-maonth accounting procedure which lists all such
4 payments, to whom sade, and for what purpose,

CDS kaj : 4
@ Ve .
;

DocId: 32319369 Page 2
DATE: 11-14-2017

 

 

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

vob
Docld:32319369 Page 1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION : .
RESTRICTIONS :
4 CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFK Assassination System’
Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10369-10003

HQ

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-P8

_ Document Information

FBI
DELOACH

MOHR

02/05/1964
169

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD
VOLUME III ‘

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

1B; 4

Redact .

02/01/1999

INDEFINITE .

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
Date:

4/15/201

INC FOLDER, MEMO, ABSTRACTS, LHM, NOTES, TTY, LET, ARTICLE, SUMMARY, NEWS

ARTICLE
 

Reléased undér the Jolin F. Kennédy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
‘DATE: 11-14-2017

  

e .

Sewerasdum i. W. &. Eullivan
. to Br. &s B. Seimout

 

 

3
lind sny of our offices even mado payments to adm
under the AC's authority, theses would heave been shown ia
the receipts and vouchers eubmitted by cach office, These
Fecores have besn checked end double checked and no such
payment was ever made. ;

ol Rumbers Identifiable

‘ \ Hed Gsvald been aceigned ¢ apubel aumber, thia fl
i would be a aatter ef record act only by sunber but alco by ms
wane. Ag a matter of fant, ee can identify every symbol ‘
number used, past or present. The musber 179 supposedly
aseigaed Goveld is currently weed by the Belles Office
fer @ erinianl informant, Velma Yonne Grahan, « Nerve medan ‘
who tune a house of prostitution. ia New Grleans, where Cawald )
gpent sone tine, the pumbex 179 was used by the New Grleane
@ffice hack in 1941 to designate an informant, Joseph A.

ertridge, who wes reporting escurity deformation and whé was
diacontiaued in 1944. As previcusly noted, ence a number ia
used in eny capacity, whether to designate a security or a

oriminal inferment, it cannot be used by the field effice again.
in Boxios, to which Gavald traveled just prier to the aesomei~
_ sation of President Zemuedy,.our Legal Attache there currently
at hes a security informant 179 eho was so demigaated in 1960.
He 46 lgnacto Olive, vie furnishes infermstios on tas Mexdent~ j
Rugsian Institute of Cultural Eechange fm Morelia, Michoscrn, t
Es Hexkoo. : 8 . .

. Surthermorc, Ogwald could not have been sasigned such

& sypbol number without = prier beekground investigation by any .
field office considering him for develoguant. Hed any fiel

: etfice considered developing him, it would have bod to obtain

i approval by the £00. There 4a no reserd of any ouch roquest

by any S40ld office eh no record of amy cuch approval.

   

cera sett

 

 

    

ie & we

RAT \g090 ZB

 

 

 

DoclId:32319369 Page 3
 

 

1992 (44 USC 2107
anh 3 “

caer eae sndtaty

 

OPTISNAL FORM NO. 10 a S010~106
MAY 1982 {DITION
SSA GEN, REG. NO, 27

 
 

   

 

 

  

 

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 1- Belmont | Meht —
+ , , 1 = Mohr - Calehen =
Memorandum aa > 5 Deloach apni
. ; i - Callahan : Evens
we 7 g i” Gale —
TO : We. C. Sullivan / . DATE: 1-25-64. Rosen ————_
. 1 - Rosen oo satan
: We. ACB . 1 - Sullivan _ Tele. Room
FROM: *. A. Branigan 1 - Malley | 7 Holines
; - Branigan es
: ; . -~G i :
sunjecr: LEE HARVEY OSWALD. f 7 Stones ee
NEERNAL, SECURITY RUSSIA. oun laciatas BY _SA/ ecie/s Je
Se DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_(@)
This reviews an article concerning the assassination df |
Ps nt Eennedy in the March, 1964, issue of "Saga" magazine by
£ Special Agent William W. Turner (E.0.D. 2-5-51 — Dismissed
7? ) who is presently appealing his dismissal before the’ Circuit
c in the District... Turner's self-centered, embittered, illogical
at ude is well known. to us and his article is what we might expect

 

Turner attempts to argue that the blame for the assassination

  
 
  
  
  
    

o Dallas "just a few hours" after the assassination to
onal FBI-type inquiry as he sensed that “there were too
nS unanswered, too much information concealed." This is

 

tai-ball nonsense and at the outset shows his true :

in Light of his stated conviction that Oswald was indeed

and that he acted on his own without left wing, right wing

icate plotting, the article is particularly vicious-in its

someone other than Oswald is basically to be blamed for.

er's case is pure sophistry the basic premises of which

sx reviewed point by point. His argument consists of part

inaccurate and irresponsible newspaper reports and. —

isehoods. He endeavors to lend credence to his argument

on his past experience as a Bureau Agent and it is in this

he clearly lies in discussing Bureau investigative techniques

ase. He coneludes his article with a four-point appeal to :

hat 1, Presidential appearances henceforth not be in open cars:
he resident be required to wear a bullet-proof vest when...
public, 2, That an attempt on the President's life be

i offense, 3. That President's route in andout of city —

ized and 4. That a permanent Federal Commission. be 7

i Oo insure proper cooperation and communication between

$ such as Bureau. and Secret Service and that the Commission be |

ry to guarantee proper ;

an
ha

 

 
    
       
        
          
         
  

ch

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iaid to FBI bungling by way of not prewarning the Secret Service

 

G2STT— Zoe G6 a .

 

  

   
  
 
   

  

  

  
