(3)

The restaurant goes thru the entire block and was at that time and still

is one of the better places to eat in the French Quarter, It is a favorite
with the tourist trade which the doorman attempts to introduce to the people
wlking on Bourbon St.. It is not a neighborhood type bar and very few people
would just hang around in any part of the business, Anyone not dressed for
ani€vening meal would not be allowed to come into the place. . It was not a
black tie affair but people in work clothes would not be allowed in. :

Mr. D'AvySworked only at night and was paid in cash by Gene Mavis, Ten dollars
a night. One night while he was working the door a young man that he later
realized was Lee Harvey Oswald came up to him and asked him if he knew where
Clay Bertrand was, D'Avy replied that he did not know and inquired of Mrs.
Margaret Tannebaum if anyone by that name worked in the place. Gene Davis
was standing nearby and told DtAvy that he would speek with the young man,
Oswald and Bavis then went into the restaurant for a while, Later as Oswald
was leaving DfAvy heard Gene Davis tell a waitress (unknown name but tall
and blonde), " See that young man there. He just returned from behind the
Iron Curtain," That was the first time that D'Avy saw Oswald. He can not
put a time or date to this meeting. :

The second time that D'Avy saw Oswald was sometime near Nov, of 1963, DtAvy
missed Gene Davis the night before and did not. get paid. He went to the Court
of Two Sisters in the day sometime after noon and asked where he could find
Gene Davis, A waiter told him that Gene Davis was in the storeroom. The.
waiter had to tell D'Avy how to get to the storeroom because he had never been
there before. D'Avy went into the restaurant and up a spiral staircase anto
a porch that was-on the second floor of a building that ran alongside of the
Patio where customers ate. He walked to the last two doors near the Bourbnn
St. side ( the staircase was on the Royal St, side), He knocked on the door
and someone aaid to come in, He walked into the second room from the Bourbon
St. side and saw Gene Davis in that room with Oswald laying on an iron posted
bed wearing black pants. David Ferrie was looking out of a window towards the
back of the rooms, Ferrie was sitting on the bed as if they ahd been talking
and stopped when he came in, To his left was another room and thru the door
he could see that it was a kitchen and there were two army type cots set up
‘with covers on them as if some one was using them as beds, In this room he
saw two Americans, The man he saw best looked like the photograph of the
first tramp. The other:man looked like the second tramp. No one except Gene
talked and he only said " see you later, That was the only other time that |
he saw Oswald, DtAvy stated that Oswald looked " different" the second time.
He couldn't elaborate any furhter on the description but he insisted that
that he looked different.

Mr. D'Avy stated that he had seen Ferrie around there four of five or more times,
He usually had a Cuban guy with him when he came there, He never saw who Ferrie
talked to because of his position out front, He only saw him come in and

leave,

Docld:322655276 Page 5
ar

(4)

Jose "Pepe" Mayoral was the head waiter and is now back in Miami, Fla. Pepe
was good friends with Harold Snadoz Jr, Mr. D'Avy would take Jose Mayoral
and Harold Sandoz around to the Cuban bars on Decatur St. after they got
off of work, The placé that they would go to that he can remember best is
the Casa de Las Marinas located at 601 Dectur St. He also seems to remem-
ber the Las Americas as a place they went. It is located in the 400 Blk

of Decatur St. Dtavy didn#t know many cubans but he says that after the
Bay of Pigs invasion that a lot of them came to work at the restaurant. Davy
remembers seeing Sergio Arcacaha Smith, Thomas Beckham, and Clay Shaw but.
never talked to them and can not put them together in the business. He
identifies the photo of Fred Lee Crisman as a man that came around almost
every wekk during 1963 and Gene Davis used to introduce him as "my daddy"

in a joking manner, Crisman said that he was from Baton Rouge,. D'Avy did
not remember the name he only recognized the face. He said that he remem~
bers Fred Crisman had a white ca r and he used to park it in the no parking
zone in front of the netrance and would give D!Avy four or five dollars for
watching it for him,

One night a car parked in the zone with a Texgs license tag and he went to

the street side and politely told the driver that this was a restricted zone,
The driver unpolitely slapped him in the face and laughed at him then drove
off, He hea rd the girl on the passenger side ask " why did you do that Jack".
He could not remember what the other people in the car looked like, He states
that this was the only time that he saw the guy and when he saw Photos of

Jack Ruby he recognized him,

Mr. D'Avy stated that he called Mr. Jim Garrison in 1967-68cand took a trip
to New Orleans and told him about the above related incident involving Oswald
and Clay Bertrand. He did not tell Mr. Garrison about the upstairs meeting
pbedause he was afraid at the time, At that time he took a polygraph examina-
tion adminstered by thé D.A.'s office and passed and would do the same again’
for this investigation. He was not called to testify in the Clay Shaw trial.

Eugene " Gene" Davis was named by New Orleans Attorney Dean Andrews as the
Clay or Clem Bertrand that called him on Nov. 22, 1963 and asked him to re-
present Lee Oswald in Dallas, Texas, Then District Attorney Jim Garrison
charged and convicted Dean Andrews for perjuring himself when he testified
before the Orleans Parish Grand Jury for identifying Davis and Bertrand, as
being the same person, Dean Andrews testified before the Wanren Commission
and claimed not to know who the man was that retained him to represent Oswald,

The owner of the Court of Two Sisters Nick Karno is a close associate of
Carlos Marcello and is alledged to have his names on businesses in the French
Quarter that are actually Marcello's, Nick Karno is presently fighting trial
dates which his attornies have been sucessfully putting off since Karno was
indicted by the Orleans Parish Grand Jury for murder in 1974. He shot and

DocId: 32265528 Page 6
 

a.

ae

: b.

c.

 

A .
Docld: 32265528

Name

 

2. ‘Physical pescription: ;
"Height So
Weight LAP

Ethnic. Group

Oe ypa63

INVESTIGAPTON INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

 
 

3. - Personal History:

Present Employment: 2
Address

 

 

fo

Le Identifying Information: oe

: / LANDS ») CLA ; is
address 092.4. Sewio2 °77 - _ Place Fale Lyle, antes :

. . City/state Goal ousas Ae o Phect 26 9 7¥2- 2727,
| ; a Date of pirth /-36-2/ “M orG) — :

Social Security YSSS2- 9377 "' Spouse

Date Zar ~27

 

: Children

.é-. Color Eyes “- Hair

Special Characteristics °

bbe /oete [Retieed $60 Oye

 

 

- . Telephone

Criminal Record es
1. Arrests “Jhye

°2.° Convictions

Relative(s): : Name

Area frequented:

Remarks:

4. Additional Personal Information:

 
  

“Address, Lip £. Lawpoz S7 ‘Mew “3/79

~ Ore hosac ha Phone 2942-979) —

 

Investigator

Page 2

 

Date
Form #4-B

 
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Docld:32265526 Page 1

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10114-10154

NUMBERED FILES
004253

Document Information

HSCA
D'AVY, LEANDER

00/00/0000
1

COURT OF TWO SISTERS
D'AVY, LEANDER

SHAW, CLAY

OSWALD, LEE, NEW ORLEANS
RUBY, JACK

FERRIE, DAVID

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
Unclassified

Open in Full

Redact

08/13/1993

Box 89.

Date:

10/1/201
(2)

On Saturday December 16,. 1977 at approximately 10:00AM Investigators Bob
_Buras and L. J, Delsa met Leander D'Avy at the Greyhound Bus Station in

New Orleans, La, Mr, D'avy was interviewed that cay in’ room §5 of the Patio
' Motel located at 2820 Tulane Ave, N,O0,La, ;
Mr. D'avy was shown approximately 60 photograpshs and asked to identify those
that he knew, He identified the following: photographs as people that seem
familiar. to him but that he can not remember anything specific about;

Lendido Richante

Miguel Mariano Cruz

Roy Hargraves

Gordon Novel

John B Meadows

William Brady

Norberto Fernandez
Leonard Walle -
Florencio Villurea
Roberto Cortez

The following people were identified by photograph that Mr. DiAvy positively
remembered as having seen them around the Court of Two Sisters Restaurant
loca ted at 613 Royal St. New Orleans, La, This Restaurant and bar has an
entrance.in the 600 block of Bourbon St. also, Mr.:D!Avy worked as a door-
man at this entrance from 1961 to 1963. ne :
Harold B, ‘Sandoz Jr.
Jose Mayoral @ Pepe
David Ferrie .
Sergio Arcacha Smith
Thomas Beckham :
Clay Shaw

Lawrence Howard

‘Fred Lee Crisman

Jack Ruby

Mr. D!Avy also knows Mr. Eugene Davis but the investigators did not have a
photograph of him at this time. Mr. D'Avy also identified Lee Harvey Oswald
and the first and second "tramps" as having been in his company, -

Eugene "Gene" Davis was the manager, Margaret Tannebaum was’ the bookeeper
and Nick Karno was the owner of the Court of Two Sisters, As the doorman
on Bourbon St. Mr. DlAvy did not see the customers in the Patio or the res-
taurant and osyter bar, He did see peopje occasionally in the front bar,

Docld: 32265528. Page 3
(5)

killed a man in the La Strada Lougne, a Bourbon St, nightclub that he owned,
His trial has been postponed due to his having a serious heart condition,
The investigators did not talk:to Nick Karno relative to this matter,

The investigators talked with Eugene Davis several times during October and
November of 1977. He is cordial and states that he is willing to help in
this investigation, He was not interviewed but in general conversation he
denied knowing or ever having seen Lee Harvey Oswald, He does not know any
thing about Clay Shaw and can not understand why Andrews named him as Clay
Berttrand, Gene Davis now owns Wanda's Bar located at 704 Iberville St. in
the French Quarter, This bar is a homosexual hangout, Eugene Davis stated
that there were rooms above the Court of Two Sisters Patio but they were

used as storerooms and Nick Karno had an apartment up there that no one could
use except Karno, .

As stated above Gene Davis denies knowing Clay Shaw or Lee Harvey Oswald or
anything about their activities, He also deneis knowing Jack S. Martin,
In an interview with Thomas Beckham on November 8, 1977 the reporting invese
tigators were told that Eugene "Gene" Davis attended parties with Shaw, Beck~
ham, Ferrie and Martin in David Ferrie's apartment, Beckham was asked to
get phony degrees and certificates for Gene Davis in 1963, He did and gave
them to Jack S, Martin to give to Gene Davis, The investigators will speak
with Mr. Davis further and any additioanl information will be reported.

End of Memo

Docld:322655276 Page 4
