 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
_DATE: 11-14-2017

tam

PG 92-226-Sub 2

 
  

general offiee and the plant are of cement block construction. //
The roof.of the general office is of corrugated galvanized
metal. There is no crawl space beneath the general office. :
or plant. The floor is solid cement and is not covered with
any carpeting. The roof and interior ceiling are separated
by a distance of 4 inches at the northeast end and diverge
Slightlyat a point where the general office connects with the
plant proper. The ceiling rafters run in a northeast--south- : boos,
east direction. The interior cement block walls are not ‘
panelled but are painted. Partitions in the general office :
. are constructed of frame and finished with a type of composition '
panelling. This composition panelling, each piece of which us
is approximately 3 x 5 feet, is also used on the ceiling
and a 13 inch meeting covers the joints.

It is proposed that one variable reluctance microphone, a MUTT
Transmitter and an AC power Supply be installed between ~
the ceiling and roof at the point designated "X" on sketch 3.
Ingress to this point can be made by removing the ceiling

- exhaust fan. It is not known how extensively this ceiling
exhaust fan is used, but inasmuch as this office is air-
conditioned, it is surmised that use of the exhaust fan is

. Limited. This unit would be energized by running a pair of

wires from point "X" southeast between the rafters. to the
Southeast wall of subject's private office and thence drop-
ping the wires down the wall making the connection to the
wall box of the designated electrical wall outlet. It is
believed that the amount of power consumption of the MUTT
Transmitter is not critical. It is also believed that one
transmitter maintained in the ceiling will afford effective
coverage. Investigation and observation reflects that
it. 1s practical and secure to mount the remote receiving
equipment in the second floor office of the Westinghouse
Plant, designated by a star in sketch No. 1. The Westinghouse
Electric Plant is not in use and is devoid of equipment. It is
maintained by a small staff of maintenance employees plus
three guards who alternate shifts. Contact under pretext
with the manager of real estate for the Westinghouse Corpora-
tion has assured authority and security in this respect.
It is proposed that a box capable of being locked be used
to house the remote receiving equipment. This box will be 4
fastened in the afore-mentioned office near other unused
telephone boxes in the immediate vicinity of a window for
disguise and will be energized through the plant's 117 volt

 

 

 

st ent _)

Docld:323329276 Page 5
 

 

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection et of 1997 (a Usc 2107 Hote; -

DATE: 41~14-2017 o . ,

u : _ soe
a aia a . 8

PG 92-226-Sub 2 fed
fe
AC system. The receiver's output will be Bibted into one
of several available telephone lines, one of which will be
leased and conducted to the Pittsburgh Office Control Plant.
The receiving antenna can, if necessary, be extended outside :
the window and will not be obvious in view of other wires ;
connected to and handing from this building.

It is believed that this radilo-microphone technique is i
technically feasible for the following reasons: ; a

1. There is an unobstructed aerial passage between
the North Star Cement Block Company and the second
floor of the Westinghouse Plant; the distance between
these two locations is approximate ly 475 feet (see
sketch No. 1) whereas it is believed that under ideal
conditions, the range of the MUTT might be as high as
. one-half mile. : i

2. The receiving equipment to be located in the
office on the second floor of the Westinghouse Plant
would not be subject to temperature fluctuations since
temperature is maintained at a constant 40 degrees. ©

_It is anticipated that the installation personnel would enter

the North Star.Cement Block Company surreptitiously. Prior i
to this, all logical employees, associates, and relatives : i
of the Subject as well as the subject himself, who might

come to the plant will be placed under surveillance. They

will be surveilled during the entire operation. SA personnel

who are acquainted with subject and key employees of the

plant will be placed in strategic positions to provide .

utmost security throughout the entire operation. Sufficient

personnel will be utilized to insure advance warning of any

possible approach by the afore-mentioned persons, It is

realized that trespessswill occur but every precaution will

be taken to prevent any possibility of compromise.

 

 

Docld:323329276 Page 6
 

‘ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: ¢it-14-2017 .

ed
‘STANDARD FORM NO. 64

. - % . SEDtL42
Ve wee? we .

: co _ fa sy , > 2 *
Office Memorandum . UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT |

¢ TO

vy i |, | DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940). DATE: 1/13/61
[iy * SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2) _ JUNE
SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

ue re Looe

RE: Title SRBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka
Character of Case AR :
Field Office Pittsburgh e
Symbol Number To be assigned rk
Type of Surveillance (Technical or
Microphone) Microphone.
«MUTT Installation)

. SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA ; HEE
Home Address 900 West Ingomar Road, Ingomar, Pa.- ff
Business Address 12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. i

1. Name and address of subject:

  
 

"JAN 16 1961

2 pbLocation of technical operation: .
_ Akon Star Cement Block Company) 12_McCandless_Avenue,,..Pitts-\ ll
A burgh, Fa.” (TO be" hionitoréd” at Pittsburgh Office Central Plant
3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

 

| * “None

hee 2-256) DL

4. Cost and manpower involved:

: . =), Hi
Leased line costs approximately $17.50 per month, © JAN 8-496!
PG 148-S* presently being monitored. from 1 - 9 P, M., each day .
for five days by one SE, GS-9 @$7425 per annum and for~two days”™ ~
by one SA, GS-12 @$9,475 per annum, The proposed misur would
be operated between 10°-A. M., and 5 P. M., each work day and
also on Saturdays. Between the hours of 1-5 P. M., there
would be no additional cost since monitoring could be conducted
by the employees presently monitoring PG 148-S*. Between the hours
of 10 A. M., and 1 P, M., the monitoring would. be conducted by one
5./ Adequacy of ‘security: ' SA, GS-12 @$9,215 per annum in con-
re . junction with his other réated duties
elieved adequate as set in the Top Hoodlum and-Cpfminal.
‘ ut in Appendix - "Details Intelligence, Programs. :
of Px@posed Installation, "

pos ne (Enc. 8)

  

1- Pittsburgh
-HLW/JW
(2)

 

,

 

 

 

[rocra:szssz00 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 7107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 oO JFK Assassination System : Date: 5/11/201

Identification Form

 

“Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-90104-10224

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 92-2940-71

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 01/13/1961
“PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

ee
v9.1 7 15
Docld:32332926 Page 1

 
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hott).

DATE: .11-14-2017 C oe . : .

APPENDIX
Details of Proposed Installation

Pursuant to Bureau authority, dated December 27, 1960, a |
Survay was conducted to determine the feasibility of install- —— i
ing a misur on top hoodlum LA ROCCA's private office at the ; |
North Star Cement Block.Company, 12 Mc Candless Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa, The(Survay was successfully completed and
provided the following information:

All known ways and means of establishing a misur were carefully
_ considered, In due consideration of alli aspects of the pro-
blem, it would appear that a radio-microphone technique i
employing the MUTT Transmitter is feasible and is the preferred i
choice under the existing conditions presented by this case,
This choice was made in view of the following factors relat-
ing to the technical problems, security eonsiderations, and
investigative advantages: ; :

 

(1) It is regognted that the use of telephone wiring disguises :
are generally considered more secure than the use of radio- ;
microphone techniques, In this case, however, telephone

disguises do not appear desireable because of the following:

(a) Subject's private office contains two "hold"
telephone instruments while one "hold" instrument
.is located in the General Office. These instruments
are Serviced by three twisted-pair lines which, accord-
ing to the telephone company source, run directly from :
the Central Office to the cement plant. This condition
would, therefore, preclude use of the Bureau's disguised i
four-conductor parallel type wire since the appearance
_ of parallel-type wire in an area where twisted-pair. °
Wire is used exclusively might arouse the curiosity
.of telephone company employees and possibly would be
also noticed by the subject or his associates thereby
presenting a security hazard. In this connection, it
is realized that a SPMT unit might be used to operate
a microphone or Mouse unit on one of the telephone
lines without additional wires. However, it is also
realized that in using such a unit, it is necessary to
loop the telephone line through the monitoring plant
which must be located somewhere between the subject's

° | 92.2940~7[ *

-l1- '

ENCLOSUBE

 

 

 

Docld:323329276 Page 3
 

_ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 ‘ . ; , ; , .
: C ‘ oN 7 4
an . Le

PG 92-226-Sub 2

telephone instrument and the telephone company Central ;
Office. Such an arrangement would require a local
monitoring plant and additional monitoring personnel.

(b) The possibility of using underground wires for
microphone egress in this case does not appear to be
feasible inasmuch as it would be necessary to route
the underground cable for a distance of approximately .
3/10's mile to a point where connection could be eee
made to telephone wires leading to a plant. Further, ;
the extent of the wire laying operations, terrain ;
conditions, and the factor of the industrial area 4
could possibly present security problems. :

(2) It would appear that the recently developed MUTT Trans-

mitter, a transistorized AC powered mindature unit, together

with appropriate receiving equipment would be feasible in

this installation whereas previougyolder battery powered

equipment was suitable only for short-term installations '
where operation for a few days would generally provide the
desired coverage. It would be expected that the MUTT unit
over an extended period of operation might result in failure
of transistors or other components. However, due to the
miniaturization of the MUTT Transmitter and its related AC
power supply, either the ¢ Byte ter or power supply could
pe readily replaced by a unit held in’ stand-by.
reserve in the event of a failure. It is believed that such
an infrequent replacement could be made without constituting
undue security risks. :

The’ North Star Cement’ Block Plant is located approximately
135 feet south-west of McCandless Avenue and fronts south-
east on an un-named alley (see sketch 1')*extending from
McCandless Avenue south-west to 51st Street. This un-named
alley terminates at both Mc Candless Avenue and 51st Street.
The distance from the intersection of this unknown alley
and McCandless Avenue to the intersection of Harrison Street
and McCandless Avenue is approximately 265 feet.

Subject's private office is located in the rear north-west !
section of the general office of the plant as illustrated

and marked in sketch No. 2. The general office is an

addition of the plant proper. All exterior walls of the

general office, the plant and the common wall between the

 

 

Docld:323329276 Page 4
