 

 

Wee L nos . ral

;
(NO 100-17689 : k

F-T think one of the "problems : is that even a assuming everything ¢ Garrison says is true,
what happens is that as you say you have to got three new letters for the agercy and
everything is the same again, There ‘have been heads of states assassinated in other
countries and nothing changes, Why shovld-it be different here?

L- Well that's a very cynical view by those who are sitting back and taking no po-—
sition right now and saying that the truth is not sufficient, the truth must do that
which we want it to do; the abstract truth is not sufficient, But I think things will
change ~ comes the conclusion that the CIA, an agency of the federal govt, killed Prage
ident Kennedy, things can nover again be exactly the same in America, I don't think a -
revolution will take place the next day, I don't think there'll, be rioting in the
streets either, but I think there'll be a change in America ard a healthy change.

F ~ T know your position on the war in Vietnam, What is Garrison's view on the war?

L =~ I spoke at the Ia, Polytechnic Institute about 4 months ago, Garrison had been .
there just a year ago, that was before his investigation bogan, and they asked if hetd
go back to discuss the assassination ard I said I'd raise the issue with hin, I saw ;
him the next day and toid him I was there, He said "I was there a year ago, Did they
tell you." I said yes they told ms, He said "Did they tell you what I talked about
there," I said no, He said "I was a licutenant coloml in the active reserve, I
spoke in favor of the war in Vietnam," He blushed, He said that in his 40's when he
came across the Warren Commission report and the contradictions ani he began his inves~
tization, he realized for the first time that honorable men had issued this false re=
port, It brought a great change in his thinking, He is now wholeheartedly against the
war in Vietnam and has resigned as a lieutenant colonel in the active reserve ani he :
believes in the very near future there will be an American Dienbienphu, He says the
Amorican people probably don?t realize that those in this courtry and outside this coun
try who oppose our policy in Vietnam ara the only onss today deferring Americas freedon,

ne ane er a ee ern ere ne ne nat me

 

 

aE mE LOSER IER TEN EN TE ATMS TEED moe aac Meee miu fe a:

 

NOLA EXPRESS e¢/o SDS=DRU -
_ Box 2493, New Orleans La 70116

3rd olass / return requosted

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId: 32212202 Page 9
 

NO 100-17689 - nmb

 

On November 1, 1968, MARK LANE, during a speech at
San Francisco State College, San Francisco, California,
stated that a house, "The Black House,” had been purchased in
Washington, D.C., and that he, LANE, and DICK GREGORY would
run "an American Government in exile" from this house. LANE
further stated that plans were being made for a black
inaugural ball to be held owside the White House to-coincide
with the Presidential inaugural ball. DICK GREGORY is a
well known Negro entertainer and comedian who is involved
in civil rights activities throughout the United States.

NO T-2
November, 1968

In November, 1968, the Radio Free People, whose
address is 160 Prospect Place, Brooklyn, New York 11238,
published their first catalog, indicating that they could
make available on tapes an interview with MARK LANE. The
following is a copy of the brochure-~type catalog advertising
the tapes:

 

Docld: 32212202 Page 10
 

 

 

 

-1NO_100-17689

 

__NOLA EXPRESS ise

_ Vol, 1 #4 . APRIL 15°

ee a ee NT OY ON I LR RS HERE TEND OO OS Oakes ore

 

cae eee

 

 

ore es ap an amen coca ae eneremane maser ey:

(Mark Lane Interview contimmed from page 9)

L = No one has confessed and I don't think you’ can expect many confessions in thia en”
because if you're convicted without confessing all you can get-in a conspiracy to
the president is 20 years ard you don't serve 20 years, you may just serve 1/3 of
Ari if you confessed you'd probably be "permanently terminated" by the sponsor,

 

P ~ What kird of support has Garrison received from the press or say a "movenent"?

L - Well almost none from the press as you know, The press is almost unanimous,
had a historically unprecedented program which was the trial of Clay Shaw, It to
place on television before it took place in real life. Shaw was foum not guilty arc
Garrison was found guilty. CRBS did four, 1-hour programs on the Warren Report deferne |
ing ‘the Report from its critics ard at one point Walter Cronkite said "Garrison has
made many charges but he hasn't proven any of them in court." In fact Garrison has
made two charges, ors against Dean Ardrews for perjury in a case closely related te +:
assassiration investigation and the ether against Clay Shaw, TIt's true he hasn't or
the guilt of Shaw because for over a year now Shaw has been doing everything to crave:.
that case from coming to trial, About Dean Andrews ~ 3 days after Cronicite said
Garrison had not proven anything in court, Dean Amirews was convicted of perjury,
watched television the next night to see how Cronkite was going to explain this but bs
never did, The only movement which has supported Garrison has been the Citizens Cer
ittee of Imuiry on various college campuses ard cities which were established eariy
after the assassination for the purpose of making the facts known, Of course RAMPARTS
magazine has been very helpful in terms of publishing new material but one of the

_ things that dismsys me, that while one would expect attacks from the right, one would
expect tho left to have a more sophisticated view, a knowledgeable view of what takes
place in this society, One would expect the left to support Garrison but the left cee:
to be sitting back watching, waiting very cautiously, That's not the position ths 1
should be taking at the present time it seems to me, One of the problems is the aim
phere around to camvinee us that Garrison is some kind of mt. One listens long enous.
and tenis to belicve it ani gives that as an excuse for not participating, I think
that's unforgiveable, - . a ;

 

  

 
 

 

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32212202 Page 6
 

 

 

 

*

   

NO 100~-17689

L = I've recently interviewed a person closely asscclated with the CIA for « rember
of years, I've talked with hin about ths assassimtion of tho president and he said it
fits into tho classie pattern of program for “executive action" ay, which any in-
telligence azancy in the United 23 op abroad vould have used to bring about the
operation, He says the footprints of an intelligence operation are all over Dealey
Plaza, le deseribes it as at one end of the chart thare is a Sponsor; that is the man
or organization who wants the job dere, At the other end of the chart is ths target;
the target is the oojective the sponsor wants to achieve, It may be the blowing up
of a bridge or the sabotaging of a six p OF assassinating a head of state, Tt may be
going into an embkaesy and remov ing documents, photographing them ard returning them,
In the latter case the objective is never to jet anyone know the job has been planned
or has been done, owever when it eames to blowing up a bridge or killing a presi-
dent, it is of course impossible to prevent knowledge that the job has been done ard
then it is most important to p yore from knerine who the real sponsor is, In
ormier to seo te it that the i
commard each person just knows the person above him ard boler him, The chein can ba
broken at any time by the removal, they call it "permanant termination" of anyone in
the chain, I asked him what was meant by that aml he said you kill him, There are a
‘series of false sponsors that aire also established so that in case anyones is eurtous .
which the Warren Comission was not, they will fird falge leads, So if the Come
ission had examined the evidense Closely ani found thore was a conspiracy ani were
they curious enough to find ovt who might Have been behind the conspiracy they would
have uncovered many false leads which were scattered around Dealey Plaza live leaves
on an autumn day, For example they would have fouri out that Jack Ruby was associated
with organized crime, There would have been imdiications that Castro was involved
in the assassination. was planring possibly to go to Grea after
the assassination. There are a whole host of clues that point in various directions «
the extrome right, extreme left, organized crime, Tnhesa are Just three exanyles of
the clues that were developed but 1% never got that far bocause the Comission being
a liberal body decided that it hed no corserna with the truth ard that it would
compromise. True liberalism, Tha Cormission decided it would compromise because
those who planned the assassinstion envisioned planos taking off the next morning B
to bomb China or Cuba or Russia or hopefully sll three, The Presidert @idn't want
that to happen and the Commission wis estabi snéed to conceal the facts ard in con-
_ cealing the facts, they also corcealed any evidence of a conspiracy includine the
conspiracy the CIA wanted them to fal: upon = the evidence of a conspiracy of the left
involving forsign goverments, : :

 

 

 

    

  

 
      

 

  

 

 
 

F - The CIA was the sponsor. and Kennedy was the tareet, and all the people Garrison
is investigating like Shaw ard Fervis were in the intermediate level? :

L - Yes,

F ~ Does Garrison have an inside view yet? Has anyons confessed?

     

Docld: 32212202 Page 7
 

Docld: 32212202

 

NO 100-17689 - nmb

DARLENE FIFE, who originated and published the "NOLA Express,"
a militant underground New Orleans newspaper. LANE reportedly
told FIFE that he is a very close friend of District Attorney
GARRISON, and was also to assist DARLENE FIFE in covering the
trial in New Orleans for the "National Guardian” newspaper of
New York City. .

LANE reportedly told FIFE that the right-wing
element in New Orleans is against District Attorney GARRISON's
action against CLAY SHAW, and that he would be willing to
accept support from the New Left movement in the New Orleans
area.

NO T-1
March 19,. 1968

In Volume 1, Number 1, of the "NOLA Express,"
dated April, 1968, the following interview with MARK LANE
took place and is set forth below in its entirety:

 

Page 5
 

 
 
  

 

Sere

NO 100-17689

    
  

 

-- 7 , \ ” Pan ~_&™ oo Loe et
- OO . OO aca
Interview with Mark Lane, March 12, 1948

Darlene Fife - What are Garrison's cbjectives? : ;

Bark Lane ~ Garrison has limited objectives, He wants the American people to know |

who Killed the president, he wants to arrest everyors in his jurisdiction, althoursh he

believes no one will go to jail, ard he wants tho ramifica tions to be sufficiertly

great so that the United States government will have to dissolve the Cantral Inteil-<
_4gance Agercy and find three new Letters for the organization thet will be formed, He
. has no illusions about permanent change,

 

F = Say Garrison gots ell his convictions ard it turns cit that high men in the CTA are

4nvolved ard Johnson flees the country to join the Ansrican deserters in Sweden; what

do you think is going to happen? Certainly there's som kind of "power vacuin" left,
y goLng BP. ‘ iS

    

 

L - Well we are presently residing in a totalitarian stzte ard the fact that there
might be a power vacuum doesn't frighten me, That would be a massive improvenent

over what we have at the present tims. I donit see Prosident Johnson fleeing to Sweden,
{ don't think that will be the result and I don't think that what takes place in New
Orleans in terms of the trial will have that kind of shocking effect upon the
American people, TWirstly because they probably won't even know about it since they
have to roly upon the media for the facts and the media has not proved to ba too reli-
‘able in this area for the last 44 years, They may hear about a conviction or two ara
‘Walter Cronkite in stentorlan tones will make some reference to Southern justice, So
ZT think that what is taking place here will never be accurately reported just as wnat
has been taking place here for more than tho last year has been distorted by NEC, CRS,
New York Times, Time magazine and most of all Newsweek, the liberal publication, Ard
I think that ona cannot expect that the facts which are presented at the Snaw trial
will be genuinely broadcast aroumi the country.

F - Explain to me what Garrison is talking about when he talks about an operational
level, an intermediate level, ami tien thea sponsor level,

ae

 

 

4 Be 7 :

 

  

. Sigal Tews
: : 2

 

Docld: 32212202 Page 6
 

   

2.04 (Eev. 3-3-5

 

‘UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION -

; ae SECRET ~~
. SECRET»: NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

Copy to: , : Na. PISSEM | : OAD
ne : Conjrolled Disserm

 

Report of: SA WAYNE.A. MILLWARD : Office: NEW ORLEANS
Date: August 31, 1971
Field Office File #: a) iyo 4) Bureau File #: 100~409763

| _ Title: MARK LANE BY oy ir

 

~ Character: SECURITY MATTER ~ MISCELLANEOUS

Synopsis: MARK LANE does not have established permanent residence,
but travels throughout the U.S. involving himself in
various anti-war and anti-Government activities.
Subject at present is traveling and iiving..with
CAROLINE J. MUGAR, daughter of wealthy: Bostonian. He.
has also associated himself with actréss JANE FONDA

and Black Panther Party leader HUEY NEWTON. Subject
has also been involved in the encouragement of military
desertion abroad. Subject and MUGAR dast-known to be
in vicinity of Mountain Home Air Forcé Base near Boise,
Idaho, where he attempted to distribute anti-military
‘paper.

  

 

 
 
 
 
    
   

=-Pp-

DETAILS: SECRET - NO-EGREEGN

 

  
  

 

   
  

   

EN LOGGED AND a aay
“fe Wet Phy Pd ON A
TON iv 8 F. Excluded fom automatic RELEASE IM FULL
downgradivh RELEASE IN PART.
declassifAcaion. - ~ erate

(J TOTAL DENIAL

The severe on Se neither recommendationa not conciualons of the FBI. It im the property of the FBI and is lecned
’ “* contents are not to be disiributed outeue your agency. - pe esterase

Docld: 32212202 Page 2
 

Date:08/12/93
. Page:1
7 JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : USSS
RECORD NUMBER : 179-40006-10302

_ RECORDS SERIES :
DOCUMENT 17: FBI REPORTS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM :
TO

TITLE

DATE : 08/31/71
PAGES : 49

SUBJECTS
LANE, MARK’ :

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
| RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P ;
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /

 

; OPENING CRITERIA

| COMMENTS :
P. 1-48 PLUS 1 UNNUMBERED; BOX F10

 

Docld: 32212202 Page 1
 

  
 
 
    
   
    
     
   
    
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
 
   
 
 
 
      
    

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

4 Se : SECKEE 9
on . . SECRET + NOF FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
. : a B
Copy to: . _ NO BISSEM ARICA:
; 7 rns : . we Conjralled Dissem
Repo of: ~ SA WAYNE A. MILLWARD 7 Offic: NEW ORLEANS

Date:- August 31, 1971
Field Office File #: we)
Title: MARK LANE

 

pee RB
Characte: SECURITY MATTER ~ MISCELLANEOUS

Synopsis: MARK LANE does not have established permanent residence,
but travels throughout the U.S. involving himself in
various anti-war and anti-Government activities,
Sub ject at present is traveling and Lliving.with
CAROLINE MUGAR, daughter .of wealthy Bostonian. He.
has also sisocie a himself with actréss JANE FONDA
and Black Panther Party leader HUEY NEWTON. Subject
has also been havelyed An the encouragement of military
desertion abroad. Jast-known to be
in vicinity of Mountain Home Air Force Base near Boise,
Idaho, where he at tempted to distribute anti- ~military
‘paper.

sus n/a Ce Shassitea wee FAS ee
14199 (Tee |

_ DETAILS: SECRET - NO FOREIGN (He)
: DISSEMINATION/NO ~
DISSEMINATION ABROAD,

CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION.

 

     
      

 

DOCUMENT HAS BEEN LOGGED AND
a WH %hy

     

 
   
     

_ Excluded fre
downgradin
declassifi

 

   

ote

docwmant,
This to wyence; tt ww tte Me neither recommendations not conclusions of the PEL.
i f2Ntents are not to be distributed ouleue your agency.

Sears

it ta the property of the FRI gad Is loarit

 

Docld: 32212902 Page 3

 
 

 

NO 100-17689 - nmb

I. BACKGROUND

 

A. Residence and Employment

 

MARK LANE has not been determined to be established
at any permanent residence during the past two years, but
has traveled extensively throughout the United States and
abroad, involving himself in anti-war and anti-Gevernment
activities. LANE is an author and lawyer by profession.
His last known permanent address was 521 Dumaine Street,
New Orleans, Louisiana.

B. Description

Name MARK LANE
. Alias Robert Blake

Race White

Sex Male

Born 2/24/27, Bronx, New York
Height ; 6'o" :

Weight 180

Build Medium

Complexion Olive

Eyes Brown ,
Occupation ; Attorney, author, lecturer
SSAN ; 073-22-4908

Passport no. E-067352

Characteristics Wears dark hornrimmed glasses,

last known to wear a beard.

Il. ANTI-WAR_AND ANTI-GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES
a EE EE OUR SSS

; In March and April, 1968, MARK LANE was in
New Orleans, Louisiana, to assist New Orleans District Attorney
JIM GARRISON in GARRISON's prosecution of New Orleans
businessman CLAY SHAW for conspiracy in the assassination of
President JOHN F. KENNEDY in November, 1963. While in
New Orleans, LANE met on several occasions with BOB HEAD and
{

 

 

DoclId: 32212202 Page 4
