 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. wo . . PN

. ‘ ‘
¢ 4
: od

The Attorney Gonexal

 

Liaigen is also maintained with the National
Security Council (NSC} Staff member responsible for personne)
security matters similar to that of the White House Security
Office but on a more Limited basis, .Also, liaison contact is
maintained with other NSC Staff members concerning mattere of

. very sensitive intelligence involving foreign nationais.

Liaison is maintained with the Vice President's
Staff to assist them in dealing with Soviet-bloc nationals who
have shown an interest in developing contacts with that office
and also to provide name checks on certain persons contacting
the office by correspondence or personally.

The availability of a regularly designated
Linison Officer fecilitates the prompt handling of requests of
other offices in the White House relating to FBI matters. For
example, the President's Forsign Intelligence Advisory Board
requests information and briefings on intelligences matters;
the Correspondence Unit requests information to assist in
responding to citizens! mail concerning matters of which the
¥BI has jurisdiction; and the Visitors Office requests visits
to the FBI by persons of interest to the White House.

¥rom time to time, FBI investigative matters develop
@ requirement for information from the White House Staff. These
are handled by the Liaison Officer,

liaison with various offices in the White House complex to
handle cperational problems on a daily basis and with specific
individuais bécause of the sensitivity of the matters involved,
both of a personnel security and intelligence nature, Matters
of a@ policy nature are not referred to or handled by the Liaison
Officer, It is therefore requested that the FBI's operational
Liaison with the White House be permitted to continue in the
manner and Zor the purposes described above,

a

1~ Tre Deputy Attorney General

NOTE:
See memorandum Hunsinger to Walsh dated 5/2/74,
prepared by JMF:sim.

 

 

{
!
|
In summary, there is a need for direct personal
t
ih
i
if

 

we
S

HW 55105 DocId:32989623 Page 9 S

 

 
 

= = - =

SR + ete OPTIONAL fe NO. 10 SO10-106 . .
ae are hh” MAE 1962 TN 4
“ G5A GEN. REG, NO. 27 >

    
   
    
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNITED STATES \° VERNMENT . ad
Memorandum
Comp. Syst. —_
TO : The Director vate: April 24, 1974 ce: “Fis 8 on —
rrom’ : N. P. Callahan - j ca inspection ——
. o . ee i] Intell, —__
4 ( Laboratory
+ ‘ . . fa v Plon, & Evol.
 sugyect: PROPOSED MANAGEMENT CHANGES / Trang
IN THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE . Lapel evn

Telephone Rm. —
Director Secty —_

At 10 a.m., Monday, 4/22/74, I delivered to Associate Attorney
y General J.D: Sawyer the Bureau's memorandum containing our comments on the.
proposed Order which would amend Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations.
3

y I expressed our appreciation for being given the opportunity to presi
the Bureau's reaction to the proposed Order and at that time briefly discussed.
the points raised in our memorandum to the Attorney General. Mr. Sawyer ee
indicated that he would review our memorandum and discuss it with the people-in
; the Department who were working on the proposed Order and be back in touch :. ae
we with me. a

 

On the afternoon of 4/23/74, at about 4p.m., Mr. Sawyer asked t ine
to stop by his office, which I did. The following points were covered: “it

iB

1. We had requested specific assurance that the ‘Director of the EBI,

 

  

0 a would be permitted to continue to exercise complete control.over FBI,personnel,.
~ ai including making assignment to Supergrade positions except those of Associate
a sj Director, Assistant to the Director, and Assistant Director, which would be sub-
£4 a mitted to the Attorney General for approval. Mr. Sawyer stated that the proposed
as i > Order would be revised to specify that“delegation of authority to the Director.
B82 — bs
4 3 a 2. As to continuance of the FBI to be excepted from the Department's
- 5 . Executive Development Program and that no FBI personnel or positions would be
: > 8 included in any*intra-Departmental personnel exchange program, Mr. Sawyer
3 sa ‘Stated that he agreed that the Bureau should be excepted but it was not thought
a Pe desirable to provide for this in the Executive Order. Instead, it was their__
ac & . t .
PEE wei So aes al LEA
1 - Mr. Jenkins(Sent Direct) . at o w R
1 - Mr. Miller (Sent Direct) Ke wy. 9 W874
veers ooo dis. Mr. Mintz (Sent Ditect) ooo

——_——— -f=Mr. Feeney (Sent Direct)
1 - Mr. Fitzgerald (Sent Direct)
1 - Mr. Green (Sent Direct)
1 - Each Assistant Director (Sent Direct)

nec:set (21) ( hls
at

oat: iv

\ pane MS / “ .
g Suse Page 10 | am a (2 1G 29 Ss YY

ier

|
cere Bey. Bug.
c& & |
< ZN

 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

The Attorney General \ |

 

s e\6 |

ep
e802" nits pis tts
REVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT oF ai DO

HEREIN 75 Quast LF
JUSTICE ORGANIZATION REGULATIONS DATE, AnlQO™

i . :
‘Director, PBI AY

Reference : is made te proposed management changes
4n the Departnent of Justice as discussed by Associate Attorney
General J. 0. Sawyer and LI Associate Lirector N. BP. Callahan
on-April 29, 1974, snecizically with regard to our request
that the FLI's operational liaison with the White House he
excepted. from the scane of Seeticn O.6(¢e), Title 28, Cade of
Federal Regulations, which is to become Section G.216(b) (7)
under your proposed Order. The following is in response ta
your momorandum of April 26, Lev4d, titled as above, recuesting
clarification as to what wa "verard as “operational as dige

. tann
co neuished from roils Bi ey matters:

A Special Agent-Linison Officer is assigned to
handle the day~tonday. ‘onerational 1igison matters with ee
White House Stafz? In addition to these cuties, he handie
liaison with several other aszencies of the Lzecutive Branch of

. Government. By volume, his principal centact is with the
White House Socurity Office, This office requests anoroximately
“1,600 fuLi-£4 ield backeround investications ver year on
Presidential appointees, members of the Unite - House Steff and
other persons having remar access to the White House complex,
Regular operational vroblens arise relating to deadlines, the
scope of the investirations and expeditions transmission of
develonments in these cases to the White House when such igs -»
required, Tho handling or these problems requires rerular,
Girect, personal liaison. In addition to these investinaticns,
the ¥hite Mouse Security Office requests anoroximately 13,0C6
name checks. per year concerning persons who visdt the phite
House conplex and who could nose a physical threat ov pogsibie
embarrassment to the President, members of his family or
officials of the White House Staff. Due to sometines extremely
Bhort deadlines, personal direct linison is maintained in order

to. be responsive to the White House needs. . Cae eee °

Mr. Callahan , o.
Hy, Jenkins . “
Mr. Miller :

Yalsh *° tt OR,
Mr, Wannall (755

Mes Boynton C9. 5507 - f9SE

« Haynes

~ ix. D. J. Green “ LOSUES, bo2 -/14,3 P3° = le

HW 55105 : 623 es
gare OTA apd Go faq CDD weseT Aer eA ma

 

peeve as
2

 
 

 

 

 

 

Memo Hunsinger to Walsh
RE: REVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ORGANIZATION REGULATIONS (28 CFR Part 0)

 

in regulations. However, he adds, Department needs clarification

as to what we regard as "operational" as distinguished from

policy matters. Accordingly, a detailed memorandum (attached)

has been prepared describing our liaison functions and spelling

out our need for continued operational liaison with the White House.

RECOMMENDATION:

That attached memorandum be forwarded to the AG, with copy
to the DAG.

   

 

 

| we 55105 DocId: 32989623 Page 7 ~2-

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yes no 6 . ; @
UNITED STATEES VERNMENT Cy

or ee en

Clarence M, Kelley

     

TO : Director, Federal Bureau
of Investigation C Let
. ee

ye “at

. Comp. " Syst i

/y t FRoM : The Attorney General Ext, Affairs’
“ 7 / y Files & Com, —
f Gen. Inv. -——~

1 Ident. eae
supject: “(Direct o erational! | hai son with the White Houge™ry Phe —

\ Lab: o-TY oe
Plan. & Eval. —..
Spee. Inv. 22. ee

 

    
  
 
 
 

The Federal Bureau of Investigation may co
to maintain direct operational liaison with th
House Office, for the purposes described in your
memorandum of May 2, 1974, As provided in 28 CFR 0.15
(b)(7), the Deputy Attorney General will coordinate :
Departmental liaison with the White House staff and the ay,
Executive Office of the President with respect to policy ben
matters,

cinue

  

% ‘toge . “oon ‘
SY eyo bd 1997)?

 

maior

 

“MAY ET 19747

r
4

 

 

 
 

 

 

   

 

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 5010-106 at ~ ow g
. RE @ " + “g oe ose
. UNITED STATES G S#ERNMENT — +s Asie. ta
a » . Dep. i i”
Memorandum Gi ave

mp. Syst.
Ext. Affairs —_

Mr. Walsh DATE: 5-2-74 Fites & Com
; Ly Heenan |
y tent. —_DXSe

  
       

sep R. G. Hunsinger Inspectch, a

: de) Laboratory ——~

q Plan. & Eval.

- SUBJECT: Xesvis ION_OF THE DEPAR DEPARTMENT. LICE YW ane
“ORGANIZAT 28 CFR Part 0) . Legal Coun, __.

ee : a . Telephone Rm. —
Liiporad aetias ol 3 te Folk t eo Director Soe’y —

By attached Wenorandtn of 4-26-77," Attorney CéWeral (AG) has
responded to two of our communications concerning revisions we
requested in Justice regulations. In note on attached copy Director’
has asked Mr. Callahan; “paragraph 1, pg. 20 - are you going to
handle? K." Ge

Cited paragraph deals with two items, our request for revision “
of regulations to delegate authority to FBI for direct liaison with
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) on FBI budget matters, and
our request that PBI 's foberat ional liaison withiWhite House be
excepted from scope of ‘regulation under which Departmental liaison
with White House staff and Executive Office of the President is te
be coordinated under Deputy Attorney General (DAG). It is noted
that as a result of reorganization by former AG Richardson this
function was placed under the Associate Attorney General, a position
the AG has indicated is to be abolished.

   
  
 
  
 
 
   

AG believes it desirable ‘ghe same language in regulationsbe
applied to FBI as it does 389 respect to other organization unitsi3

f the D t t.
of the Departnent. Ree O97 birmm lIS

In regard to first item above, no further. eee er request”
is considered necessary, aS we have been assured by DAG that we will
be able to make necessary contacts with OMB examinerg relative
to FBI budget matters, where necessary, after clearance wihtte * —

DAG.
2 MAY to-1974
As‘to second item, AG says our request for dirdet overational
liaison with White House is reasonable and he believ OUP Peiinrcs
request can be accomodated by further correspondence without change

 

ok our: ' 10
a) = 4 s-7-74

Enc. ~

 

yooh s Mee Caliahan “Yl- Mr. Wannall.. : ae -
. i - Mr. Jenkins 1 - Mr, Boynton yo. vy
1 - Mr. Miller io- Mr. Haynes 9 - cee
be Mey Walshe . DS MES Deg. Green ye
orl FoR ay
saudi lr 4m
| ALY OMEN Seta bra te 2 we BE TrAEp

2 s3aaN TS UNCLASSTIEES, oar an ;
Date ol SRAMINME May ia ty

la 55105 Docld: 32989623 Page 6,

CBS YY?

so eee monn oe ete oe

 

 

 

 
FROM

SUBJECT:

.

ee

84 JULg19

HW 55105 DocId:32989623 Page 2

L ~ i - Mr. W. R. Wannall tn
iW. 0 84ear oo LoS Mee. 0. Cregar ier a

 

j

Setidpat FORM NG, 10 * ’ 5010106 s ,

MAK1962 EDITION 6
GSA“GEN. REG, MO, 27 .
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Assoc. Dir. A

2- Yr. ZA. Mints Dee
J. B. Hotis est bil
Memorandum 1 Gos Bi Hoth) et
(Route through for Review) Comp. Syste —

:Mr. W. R. Wannall pate: 7/24/75 Filer & Com

Gen. Inv.

 

! 1 - Mr. R. DMoore Laboratory —__
_ [io TAS pelo Legal Coun.
UNITED STATES SENATE-SELECT COMMIZTER =” (Nae Spee, ee
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH cen, on ren
RESPEC? TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES | 97 UF0T pcqn ath) nit polorhone Rew —

8 plo pi sepa

This is to recommend attached letter be sent to My
the Attorney General in response to his memorandum of 7/16/75,
also attached. For your information, there are additional
attachments relating to prior_correspondence with the Attorney
General on the matter of direct operational liaison with the
White House.

 

  

 

 

   

    
 

  

In attached letter to the Attorney General the
response to the first matter was prepared by the Special
Investigative .Division (R. J. McCarthy memorandum to
Mr. Cleveland, 7/21/75, captioned as above).

It is to be noted that attached memorandum of N. P.
Callahan to the Director dated 4/24/74 captioned "Proposed
Management Changes in the Department of Justice" indicates on
page 2, item number 5, Department opposition to the FBI
exercising any policy-type liaison with the White House.
Director Kelley on page 3 of this memorandum wrote, "The
President told me the Director of the FBI has direct access
to him and he with the Drtr. He described this as a traditional —
relationship. I do not contemplate bypassing the AG but on
the other hand may not be able to keep him completely informed
at all times. This may possibly be pertinent to number 5.
If not, I see no reason to mention it." In this Bureau's

reply to the Department, copy attached, dated 5/2/74 captioned

"Revision of the Department of Justice "organization Regulations
(28 CFR Part 0)" in which the need for Bureau operational
Liaison with the White House is documented, the above comments
were not mentioned, and there does not appear to be any need
for elaboration on this point in our current letter_ to, the

Att G 1. - . TA
orney Genera RECRg fan fife ts FY)

RIMimam ox “CONTINUED - ovER“"
(7)

Enclosures (7)-Sod %27-fS

Af
2 SIGLOSURE

 

 
File #:.

G2-WGF9S

Seria!

 

930 The M35

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannail

Re: UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

While our current policy is to send the Attorney
General copies of allccommunications to the White House except
special inquiry and name check replies there may be exceptions
to this rule. This could only be determined by a complete
review of all correspondence to the White House which could be
extremely difficult and time consuming. Similarly, there is
no control file containing copies of all communications from
the White House to this Bureau, and, short of a file by file
review, there is no means of determining whether or not such
communications bypassed the Attorney General.

ACTION:
The attached letter be sent to the Attorney General.

ALM } Ble @

a

 

 

   

_ AW55105 DoclId: 32989623 Page 3

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i “es . é |
opsioNaL FOF M NO. 10 .

JULY 1973 .ITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101.11,6 -.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
- Memorandum:

TO : Clarence M. Kelley, Director DATE? July 16, 1975
; Federal Bureau of Investigation .

FROM ; Edward H. Levi ‘ :
Attorney General , / nt

UBJECT: United States Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

‘Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities.

 

 

The United States Senate Select Committee to Study
- Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Acti-
- vities (the "Church Committee") has recently requested.
certain information regarding the functions of the Attorney
General with respect to the supervision of and policy-making

for internal security and intelligence activities. I-would ;
appreciate it if you would prepare by July 25, 1975 the full-
est possible response to the following questions:
1. What standards and procedures has the & x
o Attorney General adopted for the collec- fa =
tion, analysis, use, and dissemination of he
organized crime intelligence? . ”
2. To what extent have communications between a. 3
the White House and the FBI or other agencies NN
under the jurisdiction of the Attorney General Eh oS

bypassed the Attorney General? To what extent
should such communications be channeled through
the Attorney General? -

-. "  g@ JUL 17 1975

 

 
