 

LL April 1962

 

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on Operation
Mongoose, 11 April 1962

PRESENT: General Taylor and Mr. Bundy; Mr. Rusk, Mr. Johnson and
Mr. Martin; Mr. Kennedy; Mr. McNamara, Mr. Gilpatric,
General Lemnitzer and General Lansdale; Mr. McCone,

Mr. Helms and Mr. Harvey

   
 

(e)

Ww

1. General Lansdale gave a progress report.

Mr. McGone,stated that there is little evidence A)
of any significant increase in military support
facilities, over those that existed during the Batista regime. He
therefore questioned whether current estimates of the size of the
Cuban military forces may not be somewhat exaggerated. In this
connection, attention was called to the sizeable list of bloc
materiel which has been provided to Cuba.

Mr. McNamara asked about evidences of underground in-
stallations, pointing out that should these exist in any significant
numbers it would have a bearing on probable Cuban intentions and also
on the difficulties of armed invasion of the island. He added that
in any case, the difficulties can be expected to increase in the next
one to five years.

Mc. Harvey reported on the interrogation of recent
exfiltrees, with emphasis on their statements that some resistance
elements exist in seven areas.

Answering Mr. Rusk's question, General Lemnitzer said that
the U.S. has the capability of blockading Cuba completely. He added
that the chiefs consider Cuba a threat to the U.S, and the Hemisphere
now and in the future.

The following requests emerged from this discussion:
Be Defense and CIA analysts should jointly consider

all available evidence, particularly photographic, bearing on
supporting military facilities, including any underground ones.

| AW 54214. Docld:32977058. Page 2

 

 

 
tu

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSC
145-10001-10161

168

NSC
THOMAS A. PARROTT

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

06/11/62
3

O

Date : 07/08/98
Page : 1

Released undér the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection dct of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#: NW 54214 Date:
HO-10-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON OPERATION

MONGOOSE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

1A

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

02/10/98

HW 54214 DocId:32977058 Page 1
 

 

 

 

 

b. A study should be made of the time and resources
required to put a complete blockade into effect.

   
 

d. Defense/JCS should examine the possibility of
establishing "patrol posts" in the Caribbean, manned by. personnel
from one or several countries; particular attention should be
given to the possibility of such an establishment, to be purely
U.S., in Haiti, so as to guard against any invasion attempt of
that country from Cuba.

3. My. MeCone said that the current schedule of covert actions
can be met, but he suggested that perhaps it should be speeded up even
though ‘this would entail increased dangers of attribution to the U.S.0_
He added that the present restrictions on attribution present difficulties
with respect to training agents and to supply missions. Mr. MeConée
also questioned whether complete success within the current covert
framework would lead to the desired result.

Mr. Rusk urged that efforts be continued to explore the
possibilities of defection or subversion of key individuals in the
Castro regime, and that efforts be made to induct Cuban exiles into
the U.S. armed forces. (Mr. McNamara agreed that the latter could and
should be done.) aed

In answer to the Secretary of State's question as to the
adequacy of existing policy approvals, General Lansdale said it would
be useful ‘to have approval to go further with infiltrated agents than
restricting them to intelligence missions, It was agreed that, within
the framework of present understandings, the numbers of personnel to
be infiltrated could be stepped up. In this connection, it was noted
however that it will be difficult if not impossible to maintain motiva~
tion and morale indefinitely, without at least the implied promise of
eventual action by the U.8,

ty

4. . The Secretary of State said that, at this time, he can see
no way in which an organized invasion of Cuba could be justified; on
‘the other hand, this should not be taken as an excuse to cease activity
against the Castro regime. He, supported by the Secretary of Defense,
took the position that the U.S, should "play for the breaks," and
should take necessary steps so as to get inte a position which. would -
afford the U.S. a maximum number of choices of action, In this
connection, he and Mr. McNamara suggested that the current target

 

 

  

 

 

 
5 date for bringing covert operations to a climax should be removed.
Mr. Bundy cautioned that this could lead to an uncontrollable action
internally, which might come to a head at a time which would be
embarrassing or inconvenient for the U.S. Mr. Rusk also urged that
the security committee of the OAS be used as a vehicle to try to get
more cooperation from Latin American countries, in the anti-Castro
campaign.

5. In conclusion, Mr. Rusk asked that the program be revised
to permit the building up of a wider range of eventual choices, and
to effect the removal of any target date.

‘Thomas A. Parrott

No distribution, except _
General Lansdale — ty dealreyedi aelale3 — arm

HW. 54214 DocId:32977058 Page 4
