 

 

Neel Neue”

Se ae SECRET A

asking that $100 be sent to Adah Itkin at Daventry,
England, Roberts sent the $100 check to England,

27 Dec 1965 Roberts again wrote about the desk,

Jan 1966 Roberts, in Dakar, received a telephone call from Itkin
in New York in which the transmission was very bad and
Roberts could not fully understand the conversation.

10 Jan 1966 Itkin. wrote recounting the conversation which in fact
described some of the activities of Conestoga Investments,
Limited,

1 Feb 1966 Itkin wrote Roberts a letter stating that Roberts was to be
retained by Conestoga, Ltd., as their African counsel,
Roberts made no monetary contribution to Conestoga,

Mar 1966 Roberts went to Austria for a ski vacation and subsequent
to his departure his office received a letter indicating that
people interested in Conestoga would be visiting Dakar.
The secretary wrote back and stated that Roberts was not
there and could be reached in Austria. Roberts received
word in Austria to meet Itkin at the Beau Rivage (phonetic)
Hotel in Geneva on 15 March 1966,

15 Mar 66 Roberts met the following people to discuss Conestoga
Investments, Ltd: Mr. and Mrs. Itkin, Jim Marcus, and
Mr. and Mrs. Littman. The meetings lasted for three
days in which a great deal of background material was
discussed about the potential of combining English and
American financiers to invest in underdeveloped countries,
There were a great many investment opportunities examined.
One of the specific proposals was the use of trunk line
helicopter service in association with Olympic Airways.

It should be noted that the names of Ambassador John
Lodge (Marcus's father-in-law) and Henry Cabot Lodge
were frequently mentioned as being interested in the
program. Roberts felt that he needed cover work and
therefore this appeared like a legitimate enterprise for
him. (NOTE: Itkin told Roberts while in Geneva that the
furniture had not been shipped because the storage company
refused to send it to the forwarding agents until the storage
bills were paid by Itkin,

 

DoclId:32398834 Page 9
 

22 Mar Roberts met his LPGLOBE case officer "Gary" in Rome
1966 on Roberts' return trip to Dakar.’ Roberts gave a

rundown on Conestoga, Ltd., to the case officer in the
general context of cover business. - Roberts recalls that
upon his return to Dakar there was an exchange of letters
with Itkin asking for information on mineral deposits
located in Mauritania and Ghana.

Nov 1966 Roberts was in New York City and contacted Marcus and
Itkin. He attended a dinner at the Marcus apartment
along with Itkin, Mr. and Mrs, Marcus and Marcus's
father. During this same trip to New York Roberts
accompanied Itkin to a dinner party given by Mario Brod,
Roberts had earlier met Brod through Itkin, and Brod
introduced Roberts to a Mr. Thompson who was in a
senior position with Pfizer Drug: Company.

3 Jan 1967 Roberts received a letter from Howard English of the New
York office of the Internal Revenue Service asking for
information about Itkin's taxes for the years 1963, 1964
and 1965,

6 Apr 1967 Roberts replied to IRS indicating that he had no financial
transactions with Itkin since withdrawing from the law firm
in June 1963, except to receive a small payment against a
sizeable debt from that law firm.

Nov 1967 Roberts was again in New York City and had lunch with
Itkin and Mario Brod. Brod stated that he was working on
a trust agreement attempting to bail Itkin out of his financial
problems, Roberts was interviewed by a New York Times
correspondent in a telephone call from Paris to Dakar about
his association with Itkin after Itkin had been indicted,

A more detailed review of Roberts! finances was made, and
he then explained that while he was a member of the firm of Itkin,
Roberts & Greenbaum he never received a salary, but in fact only
had a drawing account. All fees were plowed back into the firm
which somehow allowed them, on the advice of their accountants,
to pay taxes on capital gains rather than on income: at quite a

SctRET,

Docld:32398834 Page 10
 

« * 4 ¢

Se Oe SECRETE co

demands of his first wife, the cost of the divorce, etc.
Itkin mentioned that he was attorney for the Haitian
Government in Exile, that the leader was living in New
York, and that Itkin had made several trips to the
Caribbean on behalf of this client. (NOTE: Roberts -
claims to have reported this to the Agency.) Roberts
commented that in his opinion Itkin would not be a good
observer since he was egocentric and would only look
upon things in the light of how they would affect Itkin.
Roberts felt that Itkin talked entirely too much and
Roberts had virtually no contact with any of Itkin's
friends,

Dec 1964 - Roberts worked on the legal staff, International Division,
Mar 1965 Radio Corporation of America, working on African problems,
_ This was a cover assignment arranged for him by CCS.
When he departed for Africa, he had a stand-by retainer
with RCA to represent them in Dakar, In addition, he had
retainers from Pan Am and Pepsi Cola.:

May 1965 Itkin gave Roberts a check for $2,500 and said that $1,250
was to be applied to the firm's debt to Roberts. Itkin asked
Roberts to hold $1,250 for him to be payable to Itkin's wife
when needed, Itkin explained this by saying that his first
wife was attempting to get hold of all of Itkin's money.

June 1965 Roberts wrote to Itkin about sending the desk and swivel
chair to him indicating this was the only furniture that
could be used in Dakar since IBM typewriters were not
appropriate, It was at this time that Roberts sent a. $500
check to London to Mrs. Itkin. This came from the $1,250
Roberts was holding for Itkin, The address was 51 London
Road, Daventry, England,

19 July 1965 Itkin wrote back and said the desk and chair had been sent
to the forwarding agent. :

8 Oct 1965 Desk and chair not delivered. Roberts again asked Itkin;
no reply.

19 Nov 1965 Roberts wrote Itkin about the desk and chair which letter
crossed in the mail with one written by Itkin to Roberts

SECRET

DoclId:323986834 Page 6
 

 

political science, New York University, who was a
member of the New York State. Commission Against
Segregation, He remained in Paris until January 1963,
studied French speaking courses, and made contact with
the Society for African Culture. He was interested in
this organization since their head office was located in
Lagos, Nigeria.

May 1963 Roberts submitted written notice of his withdrawal from
the partnership of Itkin, Roberts & Greenbaum, effective
1 June 1963,

July 1963 Roberts received a grant from the J, Frederick Brown
Institute of Public Administration to study the legal
profession and judicial system in West Africa. -He traveled
with the following itinerary: Paris - one week; Dakar - two
weeks; Conakry - one week; Freetown -. four weeks; Monrovia -
one week; Abidjan - two weeks; Accra - two weeks; Lome -
two weeks; Cotonou - one week; Lagos ~ four weeks; Upper
Volta and Ouagadougou. :

Dec 1963 Roberts was in Bamako, Mali, spent two weeks at Dakar,

& Jan 1964 went to Paris for ten days, went skiing in France for three
weeks, spent one week in London, and returned to New York
in April 1964. He wrote a book entitled "Judicial Organi-
zations and Institutions of Contemporary West Africa" on
the ten countries visited, and it was his opinion that Ghana
was pretty far out because they had already nationalized
the legal profession, Two of Roberts! contacts who are
co-chairmen of the Africa Law Association are D. N. Allot,
who is a member of the African Law Department, London
School of Oriental and African Studies, and Michelle Alliot,
head of the Department of African and Malagasian Law,
University of Paris, and. now Minister of Education,

Spring 1964 Roberts saw Itkin, met his new wife, Jane, and visited
them in their Greenwich Village apartment where the two
boys (the children of Jane's first marriage) lived with
them, Roberts discussed the money that was owed to
him from the law firm, and Itkin explained that he was
prevented from making the payments because of the.

SECRET

DoclId:32398834 Page 7
 

1959

June 1960

Late 1960
or
Early 1961

Apr 1961

sos SEUREL

een 2 f ra —~

member of the law firm who represented the tavern
owners' association at which time he was advised of
the name of the individual who had shot Costello, the
Mafia leader. Roberts could not recall the name and
did not report this information to the FBI.

Roberts went to the Communist Youth Festival in Vienna
and the FBI paid part of his expenses. He was accom-
panied by his brother, Alfred Roberts, a Dr. W. Godfrey
Cobrenner, an associate professor of sociology, and a
Varda Rozowsky, an Israeli who taught at the Wiltbert
School for Boys.

The Itkin, Roberts & Greenbaum firm moved ‘to 103 Park
Avenue and took on expanded office space, and three
accountants joined in renting office space from the firm.
It was at this time that Roberts' FBI activities picked up
because of their increased interest in CORE, and at the
same time Roberts became affiliated with African political
refugees. Some of the people with whom he had contact
were Barumba Karena, Oliver Tambo, Sam Njoma and
Jararetunde Kozanguize. The principal aspects were the
United Nations trusteeship related to Southwest Africa and
the problems that arose when South Africa took over control
of Southwest Africa,

Roberts became more dissatisfied with the slipshod method
of operations by which the firm's business was being carried
on, specifically, that dates for filing court papers were
ignored, statutes of limitations on claims were expiring,
and generally it was a poorly run office. Roberts was
faced with a dilemma of whether to remain practicing law
or pursue some government employment. He was inter-
ested in possible Peace Corps work and had received an
offer from Lester Granger, Director of the Urban League,
to accept a job with either the Treasury Department or
the Justice Department.

Roberts made an appointment and came to Washington to
talk to Robert Amory, the then DDI, who had previously
taught Roberts at Harvard, After talking with Mr. Amory,

DoclId:32398834 Page 5
 

July 1962

“o™

ee

Sebkel,

Roberts decided to apply for employment with CIA and,
as far as he recalls, he was never overtly processed.
Roberts was under cover during his processing and
training. After deciding to work for CIA, he then made
a decision to take a leave of absence from the law firm.
He talked with his partners and reached an agreement
whereby the firm would pay him $100 a week for two
years as a means of retrieving his capital from the firm.
Roberts indicated that his cover for coming to Washington
was a general statement of being involved in work for the
Peace Corps. This was never questioned by any member
of the firm, and none of them were advised of his true
employment, Prior to Roberts' entering the training
program at Isolation, he was instructed to make one
member of his family witting and he chose to advise his
brother, Alfred. Roberts recounted the fact that while

in training at Isolation he spent most of the time on the
base, but when he did have to leave he traveled only by
plane. A rather humorous note, however, was Roberts?
description of some of the operational exercises he went
on in Norfolk and Richmond. While involved in this
training program Roberts indicated to his various contacts
in New York City, other than those with the law firm, that
he was actually spending time in the Midwest doing some
work for CORE but was attempting to recruit people for
the Peace Corps. This story appears to have been
plausible because at one point Sargent Shriver, then head
of the Peace Corps, did try to contact Roberts through
his old firm. It should be noted that Roberts! record of
monies received from his former law firm are as follows:

15 September 1961 - $200, 00
4 December 1961 - 100, 00
10 January 1962 - 100, 00
1 June 1962 - 100. 00
18 June 1962 - ~ 500. 00

Roberts went to Paris and

of the American Society for African Culture (AMSAC),.

there became a charter member
The

Executive Director of AMSAC was John Davis, professor of

 

! DocId: 32398634

Page 6
 

 

 

Summary of Debriefing of Thomas L. Roberts
(19 - 21 February 1969)

1949 While an undergraduate student at Harvard, Roberts on
his own initiative contacted the Boston office of the FBI
when he became aware that the student movement was a
highly sophisticated and organized one under outside
direction. Roberts' contact with the FBI was an agent
named McLaughlin, At one point Roberts planned a. trip
to Paris and was requested to take a written message to
some leftist students in Paris, which activity was approved
by the FBI,

Feb 1950 Roberts had completed his courses at Harvard but had not
written his thesis and had some disagreement with the
school authorities as to the subject of his thesis required
for receiving honors. Therefore, Roberts went to Paris in
February 1950 and remained there for three months returning
in June for his graduation. While in Paris Roberts contacted
French student organizations which had received invitations
from the Yugoslavian students to send a delegation of students
to visit Yugoslavia. Roberts was invited to visit Yugoslavia
with the group. He did report this to the legal attache at
the American Embassy in Paris.

July 1950 The FBI contacted Roberts who was working with tree crews
in Bangor, Maine, and outlined to Roberts a program of
targets, namely the Labor Youth League and the Student
Division of the National Lawyers Guild, since Roberts had
been accepted by Harvard Law School.

1950-1953 While a student at Harvard Law School Roberts became a
national co-director of the Student Division, National
Lawyers Guild, and, as such, was a member of the
National Board of the Lawyers Guild reporting his
activities to the FBI throughout his student years.

Oct 1953 Roberts was admitted to the Massachusetts bar and took
a job with a Boston law firm of Dodd & Greenberg, which
firm was engaged principally in admiralty matters, and

 

DoclId:32398834 Page 2

 
 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DoclId:323986834 Page 1

Date:
Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10107-10132
JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

SUMMARY OF DEBRIEFING OF (SUBJECT)
02/19/69

10

NBR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SECRET

1B, 3 :
POSTPONED IN FULL
04/07/94

10/18/00
1

JFK38:F9 1994.04.07.15:45:01:680006: NOT BELIEVED

RELEVANT (NBR). DECLARED NBR BY ARRB.

DIF
 

 

Aug 1955

a co) SECRET ==

Roberts did quite a bit of trial work. Greenberg was a
member of the National Lawyers Guild and Roberts dis-
cussed his joining the firm with the FBI who expressed
no objection. Roberts! initial salary was $20.00 per
week although they did pay a bonus.

‘Roberts felt that his career opportunities in Boston were

limited and went to New York City and contacted a lawyer
by the name of Clarence Ferguson who had been in law
school at the same time Roberts was, Ferguson suggested
that Roberts approach the firm of Delson, Levin & Gordon,
It was at this time that Roberts met Herbert Itkin who was
considered the fair-haired boy of the firm, In addition,
Itkin's mother was the firm's bookkeeper. Max Delson was
the senior partner of the firm and Itkin reported directly to
Max Delson, Cyrus Gordon engaged in legal work for the
building trade unions, Harold Levin was the third partner,
Some of the associates of the firm at that time were Carl
Slater, Louis Bial, Ernest Kaufman, Mario Procopio,
Joshua Greenbaum, and Roger Wilkins, a nephew of Roy
Wilkins, The law firm represented the Government of
Indonesia, and all members and associates were registered
with the Department of Justice. In the firm's business,
Itkin was considered excellent in developing client relation-
ships but was not considered a law technician by Roberts,
and Itkin frequently relied on Roberts to assist him with the
legal matters, Roberts stated the normal working hours of
the law firm were 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., and it was his
recollection that Itkin did work much longer hours. There
was available a copying machine since many times it was
necessary to send documents related to cases to other
members of the firm or to file papers with the court, etc.
This point was asked specifically to determine if in fact
Itkin could have copied files and turned them over to
Philip Harbin (sic) as he has claimed to have done,
Roberts' contacts with the FBI were lessened at this time
and to his knowledge no members of the law firm were
members of the National Lawyers Guild, nor was there
any indication that any member of the firm knew Roberts
was affiliated with the Guild at this time, Roberts bought
a cooperative apartment on West 82nd Street from a Carl
Marzani who was of interest to the FBI, Another target

SECRET

DoclId:323986834 Page 3
 

 

of the FBI was Dan Watts, a Negro architect and Black
Nationalist editor, Herbert Itkin's father-in-law, E, Kent
Kane, used to frequent the law offices with proposals to
invest sums of money in oil exploration schemes. . Kane's
financial status was described as vacillating from being
very wealthy to being wiped out,

1956-1957 It should be noted that during this period Roberts was
Chairman of .the New York City's chapter of CORE, The
FBI was interested in the activities of CORE at this time
and Roberts reported to them on certain aspects. Indi-
cations were that the younger associates at Delson, Levin &
Gordon, namely Herbert Itkin, Walter Hertz, Mario Procopio,
Joshua Greenbaum and. Thomas.Roberts submitted to the firm
a profit-sharing plan for fees on personal injury cases which
these associates brought into the firm. After six months,
the firm had not, taken any action on the plan, and Itkin,
Roberts and Greenbaum decided to leave and set up their
own firm,

Apr 1957 Each partner contributed $5,000 to the establishment of the

firm. They were all equal partners on a share and share
alike basis. The three partners then leased offices at

270 Madison Avenue and Mario Procopio came to work. full
time with the firm as an associate. A Professor John
Calameria from Fordham Law School was a part-time
employee as was Professor Ray O'Keefe, also from
Fordham Law School.

1958 An unusual occurrence was that the law firm of Itkin,
Roberts & Greenbaum invested about $100,000 in a bowling
alley operation in the vicinity of Columbia University. The
significance was that the. firm lost their investment when
the Mafia decided they were going to assume control of
the bowling alley operations and squeezed the firm out of i
this venture. It was later understood that as remuneration *
for their $100,000 loss, the firm was subsequently engaged
as counsel for a group of tavern owners who were organized :
in Greenwich Village. The obvious relationship to the
Mafia was indicated when Roberts one day stopped in at
one of the taverns for lunch and was introduced as a

SECRET

DoclId:323986834 Page 4
