 

 

 

 

"REPORT NO: iD” sot | _ a my ee
"PAGE NO., “5/0 a C}. . «| (Clagsiieation) a r

5 : : A so!
PROM FOURTH U.S, ARMY | —COHPEDENEIAL_ mo,

 

4 greater relegation and also ‘in his being put under greater relegation and :
also in surveillance by Castro's people, Fidel took no action against HI
because, HE feels, that Fidel would heave been in a bad position to justify
any such action in the public opinion, He then started planning HIS Geparture
because HIS opposition to Castro was creating a situation in which sooner or
later HE would be put in jail, HE fought Betista in order to overthrou a
dictatorship end establish a democracy in Cuba, Further, due to his opposition
‘tovard Castro's commmistic actions, he vas being charged’ both in newspapers,
radio, and rumors among the people, that he, was with counter revolutionary
elements in bowbings in Havana snd groups that had fled to the Escambray ' |
‘+ Mountains, In HIS opinion, these were tactics of Castro's regime to build am

   

up the people so as to throw him in jail, He then arranged all his p for
““.. departure and left Cuba in January 1961, . ; j al
i} “;. Foreign Travels: In 1957, a trip to the United States to contact Prio carras

and Faure} Cheuron, In 1959, a trip to Miami for a reception by the 4
“ Miami, During this trip he also visited Chicago and New York, In J 1960,
a trip to Spain, This time he carried a diplomatic passport, but it vas a
vacation trip, which was to last about 30 days, However, after being in Spain
' for a feu days, HE vas forced to leave the country because HE was suspected of
being an agent of Castro on an unknown mission, HE then went to France and :
then to Belgium, In Belgium, HE visited a group of Spanish Nationals, who vere ;
friends of HIS, After a few days he was picked up by the police, together with :
HIS friends, and put into jail, HE was in jail "“incomnicado" for about six
days when HE was then deported, HE returned to France since he was afraid HE i
would be re-arrested if he traveled through Madrid,’ While ‘in France, he con-
tacted the National Bank in Cubs to send him some more funds since his money
vas depleted by then, In the same message, he requested permission to return |
| wia the United States but both requests vere disapproved, In the end, he made. ;
arrangements with a ticket agency in France for passage on credit and commenced i
his return trip through Portugal, Upon his arrival in Lisbon, he vas again |
detained, searched, and investigated, [rom Lisbon, his route took him by vey |

 

of Santa Maria, where he vas again searched, intervieved and a surveillance

was conducted on him, Because of the many delays enroute, SUBJECT decided to
return to Cuba by plane,, uhich he did accomplish, . According to source, this
entire trip- spanned the period of approximately one month, and he paid for all 4

 

expenses for it out of his om pocket,

| 16, CHARACTER: a, Deseription - 5°10" in height; 133 lbs in veights brow eyes;-

ia brown hairs slight build; light complexions wears a mistaches; has a scar in the |
| middle of the lover lip which starts there and continues towards the riddle of :
: the chin, : * ;
| be Characteristics - Though thin and slight in build, he has a tendency to . !
. Swagger, He can be considered to be handsome, He is a heavy smoker and pre- -
j fers ‘non-filtered cigarettes, Does not drink at ell but enjoys dancing and = 7
/ "all kinds of vomen," He has a pleasant smile and is a good conversationalist. a
Interrogation and questioning does not faze hin, . 7 \

c, ‘Wealmesses - SUBJECT's lack of education, finesse or polish is apparent, \

Although quite glib and probably very influential in his speech, he encounters

i difficulty in expressing himself in other than the most routine and ordinary ~

ie of matters, He also dexonstrated poor retention for details such as dates ’
times and names, . ( ‘ Be :

ae Strong Points.- He probably nakes.up for his laek of finesse in conversation,

      
 

 

 

 

 

; a. ite : he'd rt ia pork
elligent G
volutionists, -- - ~ ae
@. Hobbies — All sports generally,
judo and "women." Claims to have lear _.
f International orientation - Wis la uk hirs is
\ rather outstanding, However, this Goes not. hens
Lj oe revolutionary matters, He appears to favor’ :
: or reliability can be placed on his remarks /
'! 17, PHOTOGRAPH: Being’ obtained and will be forw:
: : ¢

     
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  

 

(Classification)

 

     
 
 

 

 

Pd 56829 DoclId:32336878 Page, 9
“PAGE NO. ~

ne \

  

 

 

 
 
 
   
  
  
    
      
   
  
    
   
   

REPORT NO; JD
from FOURTH U.S, aRHYy

18, ADDITIOUAL INFORMATION:

 

did, He feels str

 

56829 Docld:32336878 Page 10

8 . Property in Cuba; SUBIEG!
*. Club" a bar and dancing club located on Lineagand

3 / 7
be In 1959, SUBJECT received a contract
demolishment of the Old Market. Place in L&¥
Cc. Reasons for defection: Source f
‘. arrest, trial and probable inprison
imminent, it was as mich a fight fong
opposition forces here in the Uni :

 

 

St appeared that his

@ Castro government seened.
avchance to re-orgjanize
at caused him to defdct when he

d ‘by Castro and that ‘the 2d Front

BeSince his_wolue in tubobed. se
gongchespart of Castro, he felt he could be

CONFIDENTIAL —_

 

' they vere due for theirwart in the =~

 
 

 

 
 

* REPORT NO. ID a , , | 7 meee : A
po yf > Classification) : Po, s i.

  

(PAGE'NO. "7. ;
FROM FORTE. U.S. ame G | COBESTTAL_ 1?

' , Following general coments vere made concerning miscellaneous. subjects discussed —
during the’ interrogation:

 

. i (c).. IDENTIFICATION OF SINO-SOVIET BLOCK PERSONNEL: Source disclains any :
personal lmovledge' of this subject ‘on the grounds ‘that he has had no direct’ contact :
with foreign advisors. of any type. Moreover, it is his insistent claim that what :
- ftagmentary information he can offer is based mainly on henrsay from mnrecalled '
Sources, He admits that. he once heard, exact time unrecalled, , that ‘there are sone j
“Czech military advisors in both Soledad and in Pinar del Rio but he has no idea as. ; ‘
te the exact number, locations, identifications, or equipment, It is his impression ;
that these Czech technicians ere used to instruct the militia forces in the use of an
amall arms, anti-aircraft weapons, and to instruct the Cubans in Military Training va

procedures, Source further claims he is not avare of the command relationships
between these technicians end the Cuban government nor does he have any imowledge ;
of their’ pay or any plans for future buildup that these Bloc forces might heave, To ~)
" his recollection, he has never seen any Russian or Polish technicians in ‘Cuba al- ‘
thqueh he has. heard ‘that there have been Sons present. !

' With regard to the Chinese, it is source's opinion that .many » of them have
‘yeen brought into Cuba to act as advisors in the agricultural and industrial fields, . :
.. But here again, he has no notion as to thé number, their locations, or exact roles, a
Source declared that an added difficulty is caused by the fact that all of the oy
Chinese Commmist consultants entering. Cuba speak fluent Spanish so that it is
virtually impossible to distinguish them'from native born or immigrated Chinese :
since they all look alike and wear the same clothes and expressions. . se

: He: does recall that he once heard that these foreign advisors ané techni-
clans ell entered Cuba under the auspices of the Instituto Cubano de Aisistad con: los
Pueblos (ICAP)(Cuban Institute of Friendship ‘uith otHer Countries) and that they’ are / |
comprised of personnel from pro-comamist and Commmist-dominated countries, or Com= an
mnist sympathizers from the Latin-American: countries,. He believes that there are | i

. approximately 2,000 of these visitors in Cuba at present and that they are sccorded '
preferential treatment as exemplified by the fect that they are al] quartered. in the
most luxurious hotels and cabanas in Cuba, Source repeated that -he knew of nothing, |
additional concerning foreign advisors since he has been in such an isolated district . i
and has been out of contact with the =P metropolis aveaSs

2. (c) MINAS DEL FRIOs Source reiterated that HE again has only hearsay in- |
formation, and that to the best of HIS knowledge there are no known tactical units ys
_ at this place, Individuals sent there are restricted to personnel who have committed — |
offenses against the Castro regize, These individuals are for the rost part, military
- personnel. who have ‘been sent. there for disciplinary’ YeASONS, - They are marched to the
mines where they are » Forced to perform hard, strenuous labor and after being there - 7
for approximately a veel, are marched back 'to their original units, This is con- '
sidered to be severe punishment in and of itself since the terrain there is so rugged. o
and difficult to traverse, Source particularly recalls the case of Commndante Genaro i
Arroyo, who vas ordered to march there in a body together with approximately 150 an
- officers from the Revolutionary emve They vere sent there and returned Speoitteally 7
as a punitive MORSUres
a i
i]

 

3. (c) BL CAHEYs ‘Source Claims he has no personal information concerning boa b
Caneye , ° : . . an .

the —(0)-- SUPT OF SHALL ARMS AND AE ne eaaeS to ‘source, the Guban Revolu~

   
   

 

weapons that had originally been used by the Rebel Army to overthrow Batista, New
weapons coming into Cuba from the Sino-Soviet Bloc are issued to the rilitia only and
include 9-mn.sub-machine guns and the 7-2 rifles, Here again source claims that
neither his forces, nor the Regular Apay: vere given theses .

(Classification)

. a ' mo ; . -

 

ee 56829 DocId:32336878 Page 8°
 

 

 

 
   
   
 
 
  

REPORT
PAGE NO.

FROM Poe. S, AR

  

a (C) ESCUELA DE CAPACIT ACTON: . Source stated thet although he has. heard. of
the: ‘existence of such a school, he has no details as to its curricula, operations or
Purposes. WP .

ba {c) NATIONAL POLICE: The Chief of ‘the National Police is one efigenio
Almejéira, - Source felt that because of his strong anti-Commmist sentiments, there
is a strong possibility that Almejeira will soon try to defect to the United: States,
| The Netional Police is’ divided by lines of demsreations or zones and precincts with+
in both! provinces and towns. Source has no additional information on the National
Police other than the fact that hi personally, saw that theywere ‘being: * incorpor: ted
anton Sas . , i i

 

 

    

¢ Path Cet bere Tocated. on *Chacon "Street.
It’ is’ gource!s* belie “that “the incorporation of the Cuban National Police
into: the: framevori: of the military forces is part of Fidel Castro's overall: aim to -
nationalize and centralize all agencies, .

 

 

; (6) DISPOSITION oF THE ARWs Source claims thet the Cuban Revolutionary
jeny iu presently composed of the same tactical forces which fought against Batista,
They..are stationed throughout the mountainous sreas and total approximately 30,000
‘to' 40,000 men, This Rebel Army is presently under the command of the Minister. of
Defense: (Raul Castro). The Chief of Staff for the Ariiy is Comandante Juan. Almeida.
Within the.army there is « G-l, G-2,5 G-3, G-4, and G-5 setup, which is organized. in
the same mamer as the U.S, Army. The next in cormand are the Comandantes of the —

various regiments vhich are located in the provincial areas of Cuba, i.é., Metanzas, ,

4

las Villas, Havana, Camaguey, and-Oriente, However, according to source, there. is .

no teble of organization within the Cuban Armed Forces dand-all changes are periodi- -

. cally -made.at the whin and will of Fidel Castro personally, At present, the.prin-
cipal ‘mission of the Cuban Revolutionary Army appears to be restricted to such tasks

a8 operating as labor battalions in agriculture, in the constructions of schools and ©

.voads; etcs As a result, their primary function as a fighting army has been dele-
gated to the militia, Source believes thet Fidel Castro could conceivably mobilize
approximately 200,000 militiamen in a show of strength but only for a limited period
_ Of time, ‘since the militia is composed entirely of workers uho cannot be spared.
from their: employment for any sustained periods of time without causing complete
paralysis. of all industry, Source also estimates that Castro does havea minimum
of approximately 30,000 permanent militiamen bearing arms at all times and “that: it
‘is Castrots desire to have his om private army within the militia, a

(0) SPRCIPIC HEADQUARTERS IN HAVANA AND SANTIAGO ARBASs Aecording to
eauires" “the General Headquarters of the Armed Terces in Santiago is mowm.as. —~
Santiago: General Headquarters and is located at Moncada. Camp, Santiago: de Cuba,
Oriente:Province, The General Headquarters in Havana itself is located on Del.
Puerto Avenue in Havana end is where the Armed Forces Ministry is located: : :Squree
declared that ‘he mew of no other ‘Bajor units in those areas, vise

. (6). DEPENSE AGATUS? AMPHIBIOUS LANDINGS: Source. stated that.he has heard
from unrecsdled sources that in the event of an all-out attack on Cuba, it has been
pre-determined that Fidel Castro vould assume command of La Habana and Matanzas
Provinces; Che Guevara vould command Pinal del Rie Province; Raul Castro would
command | Oriente Provinces and. Escalona vould be in charge of Cameguey and Las
Villas Provinces, ‘Source claims that, other than thet, no formidable defense. plans
have“béen formulated, Therefore, it is his opinion that no adequate protection of
Havana or Havana Base, the TRA Building, electrical plants, vater reservoirs, and
‘refineries has yet been devised, however, these installations are heavily guarded,
Source added that he also heard from unrecalled sources that there is a-large con-
centration of Rebel troops stationed near Guantanamo Bases hovever, he-hes no-

explicit. !mowledge. or confirmation of this, In source's opinion, at present the
only active defense reasures being undertaken is the continuing stockpiling of
weapons and an increase: in active militiamen.

\

fo

; 10, (c) COMANICAPIONS SYSTEMS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES: Source
stated that he is unavare of any general overall augrentation plans for the in--
‘ erease. of ‘commmications’ in the event of an emergency, “‘leither is he: lmovwledgable
of the. ‘present. communications systems other than the fact that all telephone, tele-
graph, radio, and ‘televisions, plus all reads and other transportation networks,
are now. centralized under the control of the present overnrients

: _ (Classification)

  

 

  
 

 

 

 

56829 DovId:32336878 Page 7 : : : ‘ . a
PAD . -
 

REPORT: NOY. ‘ID:
PAGE NO..-? .9Q-° .
FROM FOURTH U.S. ARMY

   

 

LAL Fas

 

the’ sresent

é hin blindly, Source feels
also that virtuelly all key staff position pérsonnel in the Rebel Army have: been | .
4s examples, Comandante Felix Torres; Comandante
Armando Acosta, who is in command of the Las Villas area; and Comandante Juan ~
Escalona, the assistant to Raul Castro; are ell imowm ‘to be established Communist

Party merberse

. that ‘he is unaware of any of the security
in any ‘of the following named installations, In
sible with the present capabilities of the Cuban

Ee

“1. E (C) SECURITY AND DEFENSE- MEASURES In CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS s Source stated
3 and defense measures which may be in effect

his estimation, they are indefen-
Armed Forces, and can be considered

to be ‘completely vulnerable to any concentrated, organized attack,

, Adrfield at San Antonio de los Banos

 

Jose Marti International Airport . .

 

La Cabana Fortress (Havana)

 

 

   

 

  

u o i
(Classification) ; . |

 

 

 

‘ he Castille de Atares. (Havana) '
fore . : \
~ id . an yo
5s Gampo Libertad Airfield (Havana) ; »
64. INRA Building (Havana) ; it
; 7e Managua Army Camp (Appr 15 miles SE of Havana) 7
oe whet poo, . fo . . oo a
18, (¢)° UNIFORMS AND INSIGNIASs Eebel Army: Their uniforms are made » £rom i
the same tropical worsted neterial which is vorn by U.S.. troops during the sumer ;
- with the exception that they are dark olive green in color, Both officers’ snd en- | yj
listed personnel vear identical uniforms, The cap used is idéntical to the DoSe !
Army field cap or fatigue cap without stiffeners or ranks within the Cuban’ Revolu~- a
tionary Army, they are Inowm ds "corhat caps," One other cap. often used for dif= ~
ferent occasions is 2 garrison type cap with visor similar to that issued to the if
French’ Army, Officers are. distinguished by this cap with gold braid on the visor 4
,., together with rank insignia, Still others wear black French beret type caps; there a
: is no exact uniformity in the hats or uniforms vorn, Lo
: ‘ : ; ; : ; Lo :. :
i Benks: Enlisted men (stripes are gold in color): : . .
Soldier ~- no stripes . ; Lo —_
‘ -Private First Class - one stripe - Co ‘ a
. : ‘Corporal = two stripes — : :
‘ ~ Sergeant = three stripes ;
= _ Sergeant Major - four stripes (three up and one parallel). © oF
- Officers: oye . . ve é
: Sub-Lieutenant - One gold ber on each epeulet yi
" Lieutenant - tuo gold bars on each epaulet
- Captain - three gold bars on each epaulet
(Classification; »
“4
,
q . ‘ Boy r
. a Can 2 —
Be 56829 Decld: 32336878 en
   
 

 

AW 56829 DocId: 32336878 Page 6

PAGE NO,
_ FROM foes U6Se ‘iRW

i ° OS Conandante Rolando KGubela = Presidente of. the Federstion. of Uni=

   
 

REPORT NO. ° ®

tee

 

_ 1 (c) AUDT-ATRRAPT BATTALION: According to source, a total of; spproxi~
mately 10,000 revolutionary soldiers have been trained in the use of anti-aircraft

_ weapons at Pinar del Eios militia chiefs have received identical training at

Matanzas, Uowever, the actual training sites, type and degree of training, etce,
are unknovn to source,’ He does recall it mentioned that instructors employed vere
mostly of Gzech extraction. ' He denied any knowledge of a particular anti-aircraft
battalion presently or previously employed in Cuba. \

 

12. (c) RURAL POLICEs According to source, ‘the Rural Police, per sé, no
longer exists, At one time,’ exact period unrecalled, there were plans made to.

' establish such a Rural Police organization and an‘ academy was organized to effect

such a force,. However, the entire matter lasted but about 30 days and was dropped
completely, . / : :

; (6c) SOVTED BLOC ARMS AND TOUIPMENT: Source stated that, he has no per=
sonal tmiowledge concerning the type, numbers, capabilities, or any other informetion
_ on Soviet Bloc arms and equipment which might have been brought into Cuba, He ©
reiterated that he and his group were issued only obsolete and older equipment
while all foreign and never type weapons were passed to the civilian militias

: (C) ‘POLITICAL INFIUENCE: In source's decided opinion, at ‘the tine of
his. dentrture from Cuba, ‘the only group which can be ‘considered to be at all loyal
to the Castro regine is the Civilian Militia, and the loyalty stems more from —.
Castro's constant reminders to them that they are the prin¢ipal force to deter
invasion from outsiders than any deep seated allegiance either to Castro or his
' vegime, With regard to the militia-men, source feels that they are composed mostly
‘of farmers and workers and generally people without any actual combat experience, .
As e result, their very wearing of uniforms, standing guard duty and participating
in perades are treated more in the light of boy scout games than as ‘2 formidable
military force, For the same reason, source feels that, should any major opposition
be imposed upon the militia, they would commence to seatter, disband, and disinte-
‘grate in disorder, Along the same lines, source feels that a majority of the key
militia chiefs is not in total agreement’ with all of Castro's extreme policies;

. hovever, the dread and fear of imprisonment, reprisals and death are the only forces

which keep them in line, Coupled vith this is the undeniable fact that with the .
nationalization .of all industries and business, they all realize that their jobs
and very existence, as well as that of their families, depend to a great degree on
their outward enthusiasm for militic affairs, since everything is now being con-
trolled ty the government, no miter uhat and vhere their personal sentivents might
lie, Source is of the opinion that this drive for survival more than any singular
allegiance to the regime is the prime motivating factor holding the militia to-

” gether, and accounts for its apparent loyalty to the Castro regimes

15..' (C) POSSIBLE DEFECTORS: In source's eotination, the following is a list ©

of high Cuban officials who are the most apt to defect or join counter revolution—

aries, if given the opportunity, Source bases this assumption on the statements
made by them in his presence in reaction to current affairs in Cuba, >)

  

_ Alfredo Lagura ~tinister of Justice.

. ‘anjo — iinister_of. Government

rez = Ex-ministerof_Recuperation of Pronerties

(fon) Otusix: ~ Ux-ninis ster_of Commmnications

Hoslidpgrsoli - “Secretary Generalto General iofthe-Confederation_of Cuban
Vorkers :

officials are the ones he "deers ‘most dedicated to opposing
its ‘Policies: oO ay .

? oa . . Noe

\s . Comand, te Felix Torres | - known Communist,
tay © Comandante Armanddicosta - known Communist
dante Ramiro’Valies = Chief of Ge2

oca - ~ Seare ‘Popular Socialist, Party Gase

- munist Part OF Oube ~

(Classification) . : j

  

      

 
   
  

 

 

 
 

 

 

|
, .4 Rnoim Commnist youth organization, One other facet of this organization is | |
|
i

, the person that answers to Castro direct on 211 intelligence matters is Falbio

 

     

” PAGE NO: "9

“REPORT: NO. ID, 4 o en iasiication i ; . *
FROM fovera U.S. ARMY “) “GOIFIDENTEAL— .

; Comandante - one gold star on each epaulet :

Ce Comandante who is chief of a province - star with a.
circle :

Ministry of Defense - Shield with star in center on
: epaulets © a nr
: a ‘Militiomen, Uniform: The trousers vorn: by both ormy’ per- rl
, . * *. gOnnel and militia-men' are identical: dark olive green, Hovever, _
‘ all militiamen wear a light blue shirt of the, type vorn by farm ot
_ workers in the U.S, All militia-men wear black French-type berets. “|
Black low quartersshoes or either black or brow corbat boots may .
be vorn with the uniform, In general, 611 militie-men uniforss 4
are fairly-well standardized, “one of the militia wear ranks. in
‘line with their thems of equality, Hovever, some of the more _ |
- . « « \egeentric chiefs. do wear some insignia in individual cases to ~ . Y
: - advertise their positions, but the exact type or types of insignia

ds unknown to source, _ ; : ,

: (6) INTPLLTGRICE AND SECURITY AGENCIES: 1, G-2 - The Chier, is Ramiro |
‘eldes” - The! G-2° "POR the” Ci Si Revolutionary.Forces (CRE)-représents all the d of
in agencies alike, 4s such he also supervised all G-2's of . Cuba ae
other armed forces, He has unquestionable control over all investigations
both within Cuba and abroad, G-2 personnel in Cuba have been likened to "gestapos",
in both tactics, procedures, and powers Although source has no personal !mowledge
_ of the key G-2 personnel outside of Valdes, he. is auare that most of their key
‘personalities have been recruited from the ranks of the Socialist Youth of Cuba,

    

the fact thet although Valdes is nominally the appointed head and chief of G-2,

Bravo, ‘who is the replecenent personally appointed to take the place vacated by.
the former head who vas recently - killed in a light aircraft accident...

Lo . ;
2. G-5 - The head Inspector General is widen Galvez; nothing further

cn)

to report.

 

oO 3. Investigations Department, , Office of the Cuban Prine Minister |~ ;
Dissolved in late 1960 or early 1961; nothing further more ‘ “oy os
. ‘ he Investigations Department, Nationel Institute for Agrarian Reform. us
tntonio Mmez Jimenez, Head, ; ; : a
= 5e Technical Judicial Police. - Dissolved at sone unrecalled time and ae
wes absorbed by the National Police, eo ; ; |
; 6. Movement of Revolutionary Yorkers - Not mown to source, He ‘nelieves 4
it to be the same as the Cuban, Federation of Labor (CTC), ; 4

Fe Comittee of Revolutionary Vonen ~ Vilma Espin, wife of Reul Castro, ‘ ;
Presidents a ; . if

Dow
ay

. 20, (C) \SUBVERSIVE: ORGANIZATIONS: 1, The Popula} ‘Speialict Party - Blas
Roca — - Secretary Generale ; oO ,

agones, Head, 9d ppp’

 

U ae
a | da reel

AW 56829) DocId:323368756 Page 2?
 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
AW 56829 DoclId: 32336875

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-90135-10273
HQ
105-82298-108

Document Information

USA
USA

02/13/1961
12

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Confidential

Consulted

Withhold

09/25/1998

APPROVAL OF USA

RPT; REFERRED TO USA

19
Page 1

 

Date: 6/2/2015

Released under the John
Kennedy

Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

   

(44 USc 2107 Note). ~
ases:NU 56629 Date:
4-13-2018
     

 

ae pate fy Retreat ate TA a [rite

a WA TS <=
EEL B 34 : =

aes _ WANS fOAVS
“21, -(C) “ aNTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES: Source clains that he has very little in’
the way’ of definitive information on the counter-revolutionary movenénts, | Hovever, :
he does recall having heard variously from unrecalled sources that there is-an - ‘
estimted: 600 counter-revolutionists located within the Escanbray “Mountains; He \
doesnot Imow the names of any of the opposition leaders nor of any connections ;
these groups may hove with exile elements in the United States, Neither does: he i
-have-any' idea as to their planned operations or aims, VWhat'he does know;is that |.
it hasbeen reported to him variously from umrecalled sources that because of na
militia raids and patrols, these counter-revolutionist have been forced to remain
well’ dispersed; in addition, it is also reported that they are not too vell equip- ‘
ped with. the result that, to date, they have been unable to consummate any formid- >
able ‘attacks and therefore pose no particular threat to the Castro regime, Source |
is of: the opinion that such forces ebuld serve to be successful and effective: if i-
not. anoying to‘ the Castro regine but lack the proper organization and leadership. | oi

> *225°.{C) CUBAN CIVILIAN MILITIA: Source stated that to his Impwledge, there, o wt
isa force of approximately 30,000 (sic) combined Castro militia ang military @uU bo. :
troops within Las Villas Province under the command of one Derminio{ Escalona, he
‘Primary mission of these. troops is to counter and negate any eff on’ the part —
of the':600’ counter-revolutionaries in’the Escembray Mountains from attac !
of the Castro fortifications, Although it is mown that there is at léast.one /'°. |
' .veginent of militia assigned to each province, source hag no definite imowledge: i
of ‘the-:names fof its principal or subordinate commanders, fueapons, str;
oof training, jetc, He does recall that the militis-coma ante.at.Camepuey Province
Ws one. Papitd(Cerguera and that Raul Castro and ArmandojM\costa are the Chiefs of

  

  

 

 

v the tactical/Forces. within Oriente Province, Source dadfied that consonant: with
i. Fidel Castro's concerted effort to centralize and nationalize 211 of-Cuba, one
| of hisyprime objectives has been.to nullify the potentiality and fighting effective-
Wy ness of the original Rebel Arzy which fought Batista, Along these lines, the - : |
v former Regular drny virtually lost its identity and is methodically being replaced |
-in strategic positions with trusted pro-Castro militia-men, Army personnel have
been constantly: shifted to. prevent them from consolidating and they are relegated
to such menial tasks’ ss road building, crop harvesting and other such agrarian
‘but un-military type duties, In Castro's mind, it is his intention to merge the “|
militis with the more trustvorthy elements of. the armed forces into a single en- :
tity loyal only to. Castro himself, Towards thet end, it is ‘source's impression
thet Castro. has been eminently successful, since armed forces personel and former
Rebel Army forces have bean so distributed and scattered and kept on the move that .
it is not: possible for them to band together into any effective:fighting group of
opposition, Source added’ the foregoing in answer to queries and pointed questions
on’ detailed order of battle information, His reply was that” under the chaotic
and total lack of organization within the Cuban Armed Foreés, this confusion vas.
designed to prevent any =ilitary coups: d'etat from formleting; and since the Rebel. j
aroy had no-distinect Table of Crganisation or ‘strength breakdown, reither does the Joa
present armed forces or the militia follow any such distribution or orderliness,
. Commanders are usually distri¢t chiefs: and not even they are ever totally avare
‘of whom or how many troopsthey Wave under their control at any given time, It 5
‘is source's opinion that Castro has been ablé to continue to retain control of. +
' Cubs by taking advantage of and perhaps even fostering this anomaly of deranged 4
disorder within the Cuban’ Armed Forces-to impose some method to his madness, ‘ !

 

(Classification) . 7 i

    

et | oe ee
HW 56829 DoclId:32336878 Page 3

 
 

 

 

 

fi

 

- : ification)
PAGE NO... JQ™: ; (Classifieat. jon) /

FROM “FOURTH U.S. Any : : SPTpes

he Revolutionary Armed Force:
ep Qugenes duindl ing 5 ‘

 

tenants whom he can trust implicitly and who will follow hin blindly, Source feels
also that virtuelly all key staff position personnel in the Rebel Army have teen |
replaced by well known commmists, 4s examples, Comandante Felix Torres; Comandante
Armando Acosta, who is in command of the Las Villas area; and Comandante Juan °
Escalona, the assistant to Raul Castro; are ell Imown to be established Commamist
Party members. OO Cook : a oo

we eg ' , } ~ . ’

17,..(C) SECURITY AND DEFINSE-“MmasuRES IN CERTAT! INSTALLATIONS: Source stated
. that ‘he is unaware. of any of the security and defense measures vhich may be in effect
in any of the following named installations, In hiis ‘estimation, they are indefen-
sible with :the present capabilities of the Cuban Armed Forees, and-can be considered
to be‘completely vulnerable to any concentrated, organized attack, a

1, Airfield at San Antonio de los Banos

 

2. dose Marti International Airport, . a
“- 39 La Cabana Fortress (Havana)

4e Castillo de Atares. (Havana) eG

6s | TVRA Building (Havana)
7. Managua Army Camp (Appr 15 miles SE-of Havana)

“1a, (c) TIIFORMS AND INSIGNIASs Rebel Army: Their uniforms are made » From
the ‘same. tropical vorsted material which is worn by U.S, troops during the simmer

. with the exception that they are dark olive’ green in color, FBoth officers and en- |

listed personnel wear identical uniforms, The cap used is idéntical to the U.S.
army field cap.or fatigue cap without stiffeners or ranks within the Cuban’ Revolu-

_ tionary Army, ‘they are Imowm as "combat caps." One other cap often used for dif-

ferent occasions is a garrison type cap with visor similar to that issued to the
French’ Army, Officers are distinguished by this cap with gold braid on the visor
together with rank insignia, Still others ‘sear black French beret type caps; there
is no exact uniformity in the hats or uniforms worn, _ .

Moy : : ; . a
a. 56629 DocId: 32336878 | Page 4 .

co , se a) ase = .

 

 

5 Campo Libertad Mrfield (Havana) es

 
