 

 

NX)

 

 

 

Xa

a
~
Y

a member of the Grand Jury or connected with the Grand

Jury. .He said he knew this to. be a fact, .

; Then, fox no reagon at all, he told me that
he bad just ¥Yecently bought a new house in Grosse Pointe
from the builder and resold the house to.Mr. Bufalino, —
whom he identified as the head of thé Teamstexr operations
in Detroit; and he did this as a favor to Bufalino because
of the restrictive sales in the Grosse Pointe area wherein
Italians, Negroes, Jews, etc. aré very much discriminated
against and he wanted to do Bufalino a favor. He also
told me, "You know, there are 15 or 16 of the tep mobsters
for the whole country right here in Detroit. They don't
do anything here in Detroit but do things all over the
country. Some are pretty close neighbors of mine."

Verhelle specifically brought up the fact that
it seemed inconsistent with Mr. Johnson's political past
that he should be making State of the Union speeches that
talk in temis of saving money and cutting down on graft
and this sort of thing, and said, “This man of all people
to be talking like that." Actually, later at lunch,
Verhelle stated that a company that he, Verhelie, either
owns or partially owns just got a contract in Washington
that over a period of five years will run as high as
one billion dollars and this contract did not come fram
McNamara but was specifically given by Johnson to Verhelle's
partner in Washington. He called him a man that I've been
coaching, or my man that I've been coaching in Washington
went directly to Johnson and Johnson gave the contract to
Use : : : .

I asked Mr. Verhelle whether Triscaro could make
Dominick keep quiet. He said, "Heck no"; that apparently
it took someone much higher up and indicated Triscaro. was
very i11 and that he looks terrible and when he saw him a
couple of weeks ago he was hesitant even to ask Triscare
how he felt because hé looked ao. bad.

Just in general conversation - Recently when
Hoffa gave a talk to some businessmen (as much as maybe
six months ago) he impressed this, group of businessmen,

«~& »

QN~ \9n98)

DocId:32310076 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attorney and a part of the contract negotiating team in
Ghicago, lives three doors from Mr. Verhelle in Grosse
Pointe; and, according to Mr. Verhelle, always knows where~
ver Jimmy Hoffa is and what he is doing at any time and
that this is the way he would arrange the date. At another
part in the conversation we talked about the fact that
Verhelle would discuss the Chattanooga "fix" with just
Hoffa and the.top attorney who is representing Hoffa in
Tennessee, and Verhelle'’s description of this attorney

was that he is a man from this area, this area being
Detroit, and in a sentence or two later mentioned the

name Haggerty. I assume this refers back to which of

these men is the attorney in charge.

Then I talked to Mr. Verhelle about the selfish
veason that I personally would have in wanting to help
Hoffa, which was to make sure that the Welfare Fund loan
for the purchase of the Sinclair Oil Building in Chicago
would in fact be approved and stated, on the other hand,
that the two didn’t necessarily have to tie in together,
Then; momentarily, Mr. Verhelle assumed that I meant every-
one on the Welfare Fund Board should know about the "fix"
in Tennessee and we straightened out the fact that these
would be private situations, although a favor in one place
could be returned in another place. 1 gave Mr. Verhelle
the financial data regarding the Sinclair Oi1 Building
sale, and he stated that he would talk to a couple of men
on the committee and would be in a position to move on
that matter as soon as he got te Chicago.

Nr. Verhelle excused himself and upon returning
' Suggested that we go into lunch, and I opened the luncheon
conversation by asking if he had seen the article in the
Cleveland newspaper about Deminick Bartone. He had not
seen it and was very interested in knowing on what charge
Dominick was being jailed and seemed very much relieved
that it was en a probation violation. He then told me
that he, Verhelle, had been told by someone in the Federal
offices in Detrelt that Bartone could be convicted on income .
tax violation. Apparently this was someone who either was

€

= 3-6

 

_ ae . . - - wee oe a

DocId:32310076 Page 7
‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Detroit, Michigan
January 10, 1964

Dictated by:
Robert. C. Meissner

I met Mr. Joseph Verhelle at the Detroit Athletic
Club at Mr. Verhelle's request at 11:00 A.M., January 10,
1964. Mr. Verhelle asked me to sit with him in the main
xecéption hall-and. started the conversation by telling me
of some problems that the present Directors of the Public
Bank. sre experiencing as a result of a four-page memorandum
which Mr. Verhelle preserited to the Directors yeaterddy.
The substance of the matter was that the Public Bank has
extended a rather unusual line of eredit to a building
improvement firm, which manufactures sereen doors and
similar items, and is now in trouble financially. Mr.
Verhelle has alerted the bank examiners, one of whom was
visiting Mr. Verhelle in Detroit teday having come here
from Lansing. 1 asked Mr. Verhelle if he was going to
again take over the management of the Public Bank, and he
stated that he probably would and felt that most of the
present Directors would be resigning. He stated that the
Directors do not. represent the owners of the bank and that
he, Verhellé, did. Mr. Verhelle algo stated he had arranged
for fivé million dollars of additional equity to be put in
the bank and hence-make the bank solvent. I asked him, "Is
the money coming from Jinmy?", and he said, "Yes." I said,
"Will that be from the Pension Fund?", and he stated, "Yes,
it would come through one of the Pension Funds." ;

I then asked Mr. Verhelle if he had completed the
purchase of the bank that he told me he was buying in our
telephone convérsation last week. He stated that he had
made the purchase and that his sons were making application
to move either one of the two banks that they now own to
Downtown Detroit. I tried te find out the name of the bank
which he has just purchased and was unsuccessful, but he
told me that it was down near or in Wyandotte.

After Mr. Verhelle and I talked about Hoffa's
participation in the new banking operation, I then dsked
about Chattanooga. Mr. Verhelle told me that the trial
had just recently been moved down there and we  diecusved

 

DoclId:32310076 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that ary trial in Tennessee would be a tough one
but that certainly Hoffa would have to win the one in
Tennessee if he expected to come through in Chicago. We
talked very Specifically about the need for a "fix" in
Tennegsce and subsequently a "£ix" im Chicago, and asked
Verhelle whether he still wanted me to try to be of any
assistance in Tennessee. He said yea and wanted to know
something about what could be done, and we talked about the
fact that if anything were done it would have to be done
way at the top of the State, talking gpécifically about
Governor Clements and oné of his personal assistants and
the fact that the politicians in Tennessee were very
“practical” people. He wanted to know how much money I
thought it would cost, “I said at least a quarter of a
million dollars, and he said getting §2 or $300}000s isono
problem. He further wanted to. know who would handle this,
and I said I would simply make an introduction to someone.
He stated he felt Hoffa himself should not handle it, or

' no ene who is specifically a Teamster should handle it, and

it should be someone like himself and later talked in texmns
of he, Joe Verhelle, taking care of the matter on Hoffa's
behalf.

He stressed in the conversation the need for not
giving my name to Hoffa and maintaining ami's length
velationships all along the line. He also was concerned
about how he might meet whoever it is that the arrangement
would be made with and, on the other hand, stated that,
"Well, I know how to handle thie sort of thing", and he
would arrange a time and place where there wouldn't be
public record of their meeting, ete.

then Mr, Verhelle talked about the fact that
Jimmy Hoffa was not in Chicago today, and I think mentioned
that he might be here in Detroit. In any case, he specifically.
menticned that two of the negotiatore were here in Detroit
today and he would meet with one of them and find out when
he, Verhelle, should come to Chi¢age and discuss the Chatta-
nooga situation with Hoffa and indicated it would be within
the next three or four days, that he would call me and
arrangé to meet with me in Chicago. The negotiator whe is an

¢

31° 9029 ,

 

DoclId:32310076 Page 6

 
 

 

FR: -36% Rev. 12-13- 56) -
eG. wo . 7
. 7 Fae : . ‘
‘sg - . .
va PBI
. Date: 1/10/64

Transmit the following in

 

“AIRTEL AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing}

 

'
|
l
!
|
I
|
!
|
{
|
|
|

(Type in plain text or code) |
|
|
|
|
L

 

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

   
     
    
    
    
    

 

FROM: SAC, DETROIT (29- 1432) ©)

JAMES RIDD OFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka.; ET AL
FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(00: DETROIT) ;

ReDetel to Bureau and Chicago 1/9/64.

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are 4 copies of an LHM for
‘ dissemination to the Criminal Division of the Department.

Two copies of the LHM are enclosed to Memphis, one of which
should be furnished to WALTER J, SHERIDAN, Special Consultant
to the Attorney General, in accordance with the request of
Department Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH, Detroit. One copy of the
LHM is enclosed for the information of Chicago.

    

: Department Attorney FRENCH advised on 1/10/64, that ROBERT C.
y\ MEISSNER of Chicago met with JOSEPH F, VERHELLE, former

\} ‘President of Public Bank, Detroit, at Detroit, 1/10/64.

y MEISSNER had been equipped with a concealed tape recorder in —

2 accordance with previous arrangements with the Chicago Office,
Be and he said he recorded as much as possible of his conversa~

Sa tion with VERHELLE, MEISSNER returned to Chicago by American
| Airlines the afternoon of 1/10/64.

23 , _
En In accordance with previous Bureau instructions, Chicago is to
22 transcribe the tape from the. above meeting and incorporate

35 the contents in an LHM suitable for dissemination to the

Criminal Division of the Department, Appropriate copies of

the LHM also should be furnished to the Memphis and Detroit

Divisions so that one copy can be disseminated to WALTER J,

{ en by Memphis a Yb WILLIAM Wika By! petrost.
EN

 
    
  

CLES Tk Breau (Encls. 4) oe
x Chicago (29-1999) (Enel. 1) 4

2 - Memphis (72-43) nels. 2) 4

1 - Detroit

Vow: SLZ | yt 4 bon “fase 4G Oriminal Division 7, eo
eo Ai? Mn Walter J. a

Approved:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId:32310076 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System Date: -4/21/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10302-10020
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 29-31889-206

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: — FBI
FROM: SAC, DE
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/10/1964
PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS :
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Unclassified
“RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM, TRANSCRIPT

 

v9.1 7 51
DoclId:32310076 Page 1
 

 

an 9

DE 29-1432

FRENCH advised that a summary of the conversation between
MEISSNER and VERHELLE was dictated by MEISSNER to FRENCH's
secretary on 1/10/64, while MEISSNER was en route to the
Detroit Metropolitan Airport to return to Chicago. The
transcript of MEISSNER's dictation was made available by
FRENCH for incorporation in the enclosed LHM,

FRENCH advised that from MEISSNER's conversation with VERBELLE
it appears possible that a future meeting between MEISSNER and
VERHELLE may take place in Chicago after VERHELLE has contacted
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA, FRENCH will maintain contact with

MEISSNER concerning any further developments,

tye oN
ADOT YG
L

 

 

DocId:32310076 Page 3

 
 

a ; wn

\
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF \SOSTICE

 

-FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to 2 _ .
File No. Detroit, Michigan
January 10, 1964

James Riddle Hoffa;
Dominick Edward Bartone;
Et Al ae

On January 10, 1984, -pepartuent Attorney William
P. French of the’ Criminal. Division made available a typewritten
transcript of remarks dictated to Mr.- Frénch's ‘secretary at
concerning a meeting between Meissner’ and Joseph F, Verhelle’
at Detroit on January 10, 1964. Attached hereto is a copy of
the above-men tioned transcript.

This document contains neither récomméndations nor
conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it.and its contents are not to. be
distributed outside your agency.

ALL INFORMATION come

. : vs ILS Ose epee Zn

 

 

 

DocId:32310076 Page 4
