 

 

 

 

Section D.I. pp 22-28. In describing Harvey's past and
other roles, interesting bits of information are revealed to the
knowledgeable analyst. Harvey's role with the Berlin tunnel
is cited. Description of his later division--surreptitious
acquisition of codes~-could present an interesting organizational
concept for the analyst. The recruitment of a foreign agent for
his criminal talents, by a named Agency employee working for
Harvey (according to the draft report), would be read _ by. foreign
‘analysts for what it was, a man to steal codes. The speculation
in the draft report doesn't seern to support a rationale for including
these bits of information.

Section D,I. pp 29-34, It is noted above that AMLASH could
be identified by the pattern of his foreign meetiizs. It also
highlights the ability of the Agency to follow the coming-and-
going of foreign intelligence targets, an item that would attract
the attention of foreign CI analysts,

Section D.I. p 38. Reference to a meeting in Madrid
between AMLASH and another\gency operational contact,
arranged by the Agency withont the knowledge of either participant,
is a technique that should not be publicized.

{55355 Docld:32203676 Page 7
 

  

 

 

 

HW 55355 Docld: 32203678 Page 5

|
“t

 

. Uninvolvéd Bystanders
aves Bystanders

Recitation of the Las Vegas bugging incident is such as
to expose both Dan Rowan and the person associated with him
in the incident, Official publication would give the press a froe

run at this unnecessary detail ina Private life, (Section D, 7
pp 13-17), i

Identification by Description
Ta esc ription

In some instances, where the actual name is not recorded
the description ig such that the identification can be made
readily by knowledgeable persons,

Section D.1, pe 4. The summary of an offer by a Cuban
pilot in July 1960, to cause an accident that would kill senior
Cuban Officials, makes his identification a relatively simple
thing for the Cuban DG.

Section DI, pp 29-34, The description of AMLASH/] is
such that his identity is fairly Simple. Were there any doubt,
the citing of Specific dates an which he was met outside Cuba
(pp 31, 33, 34 and 35) would make it very clear who he is,

He is now in prison in Cuba and is entitled to this Protection,

Section E, Even if the name of COS Ciudad Trujillo is :
omitted, the title is still revealing ‘to knowledgeable persons, ]
More general reference to cables to and from the "Station"!
would generalize the identity, assuming that any reference
is necessary, . . :

 

Section F, p27. The COS is cited but not named, It is
Preferable that reference be to the "Station'' and not to him
as an individual,

MS

Section F, pp 30-42, In conjunction with a listing of
Chilean officers by name (supra), the additional identi-
fication ofa "Lieutenant Colonel, ''a "Navy Captain, '' and
an "Air Force General,"! Presumably not previously identified,
could lead to further inquiry in Chile, General reference to” .
"Chilean military figures!! should suffice, if any treatment is , fe
necessary, a

 

a

 
 

 

   

 

 

YHcId: 32203678 Page 6

Section’G, The use of the pseudonym ''Hedgman'" for the
Chief.of Station in Leopoldville/Kinshasa would be illusory

if it is intended to conceal his identity. Those knowledgeable
would soon penctrate the device. Some more general reference
to the CIA Station is a minimum requirernent.

ca Section G. p13. The direct citation of Station use of
hitermvho was in liaison with the CIA Station
would permit his ready identification,

   

Gryptonyms

The draft report employs cryptronyms of agents and
operations that probably should not be contested, New digraphs
may be necessary in the Latin American Division (e.g., AMLASH,
JMWAVE), but these probably cannot be avoided, Preferably
they should not be used, but the Rockefeller Report set a precedent
that might as well be followed.

’ Section F. p 21, Reference to the initials "CAS" is no
more than a designation employed by other government agencies
in referring to CIA in certain communications. It should be
replaced by the ''CIA" initials, if used at all.

Sources and Methods

 

It is impossible to treat the entire subject of these various
operations, recording day-to-day activities in such detail,
without revealing a great deal about patterns of thought and
activily that will reveal a great deal to foreign intelligence
analysts about CIA techniques, attitudes and modus operandi.
The draft report is highly revealing, in its extensive detail.
While it would be misleading in some respects, it nevertheless
reveals a great deal about staff planning at lower levels (prior
to elevating the results, if ever, for senior review), methods
for approaching potential agents (and considcrations in how to
try to bring them under control and direct them), use of cut-
outs, etc. Some specific revelations are noted below:

 
 

 

  

355 ‘DocId:

 

 

Those Still Living

The list of names in the report of those still living,
who had some role in the various activities, is long.
names picked out in the review of the draft are below:

(1) .James O'Connell
> (2) Robert Maheu |

’ (3) John Roselli
(4) Santos Trafficante
(5) (FNU) Maceo
(6) Tony Varona
(7) Juan Orta
(8) J.C. King
(9) William Harvey
(10) Samuel Halpern
(ll) Bronson Tweedy
(12) Sidney Gottlieb
(13) CESSES 0
(14) Edward Gunn
(15) (FNU) Gomez (otherwise unidentified in text)
(16) Henry Dearborn
(17) John Barfield
(18) Robert Owen
(19) GNESI Do 5
(20) QoTOSN VANCED ob
(21) David Phillips
(22) Justin O'Donnell

- . (23) Glenn Fields
, (24) Lou Conein

(25) John Richardson

(26) Qe EIS eae -

This list omits persons not directly involved other than in the
line of command, from the level of Deputy Director up. Two division
chiefs are listed--J.C, King and Bronson Tweedy--and might, by reason
of their seniority, be omitted from the list of those whoSe names
should be deleted. The list, otherwise, is a mix of Agency employees,
cooperating individuals, and agents. The comments below first treat

the question of Agency employees.

 

322036768 Page 2
7/p|

G
6
w ( Date:10/06/93
, Page:1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
( IDENTIFICATION FORM
. AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10170 - GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RECORDS SERIES : RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : Off IS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records

 

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA ellection Act of 1992 (44 Use
FROM : e107 More) . Case#:NWU S53555
TO:
TITLE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE : 10/20/75
PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS :
DRAFT ASSASSINATION REPORT OF THE SSCIA.

~~ DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : $
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/06/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
BOX 400-79
/ [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
WW A5S55 Docld:32203678 Page 1
 

  
  

Agency Employees
Agency “mployees

The day-to-day record of events is subject to relatively
direct reconstruction, and the draft opts for detailed recitation.
In some instances, the format calls for treatment of the same
subject matter trom more than one point of view. Relying on
this approach, there has been extensive recording of the true
names of individuals. This is so extensive in some sections

of the report that major editorial revision will be required to
protect those entitled to it.

Those employees still living--cither still active or retired--
require protection from whatever repercussions that might
flow from official connection with the reported évents. They
are entitled to this both in traditional terms of protection of
employees and agents in‘their work, and in terms of separating
thern from such unpredictable incidents as may tlow from
publication.

' Other U. S. Employees

Publication of the names of Henry Dearborn, John
Barfield (Department of State) .in connection with the
Trujillo affair should be omitted (Section E). Mention

maColenal Wimertt 8tion F) in connection with the

Schneider affair also should be accorded the same treatment.

mo . Cooperating Individuals

. Robert Maheu, whatever publicity he has been given, is

. entitled to protection from official confirmation of the:press
stories. Not only is he entitled to protection from direct
association in the Castro operation, he ts entitled to protection
from incidental revelation of his involvement in other unrelated
activities (The report cites his involvement in an Onassis-
Niarchos contest, on which he reported to the government, and
in making Gfnotion preturotag

 

The Syndicate members through whom Maheu worked
pose a somewhat different problem, but the same central
issue remains. We cannot divine how publicity would impact
on their future. Giancana is dead, presumably as a result
of unrelated events, but how publicity would affect Trafficante

  

ocld:32203678 Page 3

 
 

 

Bcld:322036768 Page 4

and Maceo is debatable.. Both are entitled to this protection.
Roselli, now engaged in deportation proceedings, may wish
the publicity to strengthen a claim to special consideration,
but he nevertheless is entitled to the same protection that

the others are.

Great care is taken to conceal the identity of an action
asset inside Cuba (Section D.I., pp 18-19), but his true
name appears at page 2]l. He is believed to still be alive,
and is entitled to protection,

The full name of Tony Varona appears often, (Section
D.1. p19, ff). He is entitled to protection.

One man named in the draft, but unknown to this reviewer,
(FNU) Gomez (Section E, p 5), should be checked for identi-
fication. He would seem entitled to protection, in the context
that he is mentioned,

  

0 .
The name o (@iNETee Baray is included (Section E, pp 16-22,
p- 31). Although he has received publicity in the past, he is
entitled to protection from official confirmation of his role
in the Trujillo affair.

Section F, pp 30-42. The listing.by name of a number of
Chilean officers, some of whom have been tried in Chile for
their role in plotting, would reveal additionally contacts with
a foreign power. This might open them to new charges at some
time in-the future.

Reference Inaccurately Conveying

Impression of Operational Involve-

ment of American Citizen

 

 

D.I. pp 28-29. In reporting the various schemes conceived
at working levels in CIA to infect a diving suit, the impression
is conveyed that Attorney James Donovan might be-aware of
what was being discussed, while there is no evidence that he
was. His being mentioned in true name, in this context, is
subject to correction, :

~4-

Rete we

 
