 

 

 

 

 

 

ase eo -  @6

The underlying rationale for, and history behind,
these concepts is:

  

Personnel - the generalist allows for a highly
flexible, mobile force which can be deployed, generally solely
on the basis of manpower needs, i.e., any agent can do -any
job in the FBI. There are some exceptions; some employees
have unique abilities which tend to make them less mobile in
the eyes of administrators, e.g., language or technical
factors in the case of agent deployment and promotion; they
are more determinative in cases of clerks: special employees,
translators, etc.

Administration of cases and conduct of investicatic:
these were originally geared to accommodate a relatively few
criminal and civil investigative matters, and as the respo
bilities of the organization grew they were modified and ad
within the unitary structure, to accommodate the various
missions. Thus they are quite similar in all three missions

5

 

  

“3. . The Issues Raised: : oa

a. Are the missions of law enforcement, intern 1

 

b. If so, is complete separation possible, practical)
fe)

litically feasible or desirable?

c. Can the three missions be accommodated in one
organization?

d. By doing so, do any of the missions suffer?

e. If all three missions can be accommodated i
one agency, is the FBI currently doing it the
best way possible?

£. %If not, is it practically or politically fea
‘ble or desirable to change the FBI's way of cezr-
forming the mission?

 

 

 

g. Why are other Western intelligence services
separate from law enforcement agencies?

 

Tike rie Ra ah ea! PEL aba SRO Resashru
’
-

 

HW 55064 DocId:32989541 Page 9

:

 
ES Tar BR RT Sp ra SN SRT Wee aE BOS OE TOL

   

 

ii
j

 

 

 

 

. eo e®

 

4. Options for Future Policy:

The missions of law enforcement, internal security,
and counterintelligence are separate, distinct and distinguishable
functions, even though each partakes a little of each other. .
Law enforcement is investigation after a crime has been .committed
to identify suspects and build a, case for prosecution; counter-
intelligence is the identification, penetration and neutralization
of foreign intelligence activity in the U. S.; and internal
security is identification and thwarting of home-grown plots
to subvert the government and activities within the U. S. in
illegal support of foreign causes, whether by U. 5S. citizens
of foreigners. .

The missions overlap to some degree. For example,
law enforcement requires some intelligence collection, and is
intimately concerned with internal security criminal acts, e.g.,
foreign related terrorist bombings, skyjackings, gunning, and
subversive groups' kidnappings; bank robberies, bombings, etc.
Counterintelligence sometimes results in criminal prosecution,
and some internal security groups are funded by, and act on

behalf of, foreign intelligence services. Internal security is
2 hybrid; the bacic for ite investigation tea that ante noalitioalley

motivated, are being committed in violation of the U. S.

criminal law. Yet, the investigation may be a continuing effort,
based on continuing acts threatening the internal security

without actually violating the criminal law, and thus the investi-
gation is more like a counterintelligence investigation, than

like the typical law enforcement closed cycle of crime, investigati
and prosecution,

While counterintelligence could adequately, and
with, more success in some cases, be handled by an organization
totally separate from one with law enforcement powers, internal
security work, in many cases, is directly rélated to criminal
prosecution. There has been little effort, and less success,
in most English speaking Western democracies in prosecuting
domestic "subversives," even those with foreign ties; however,
prosecution is often a principal, if not primary, objective in
cases involving emigre bombing and harassment of foreign
diplomatic establishments, fund and arms procurement for
foreign political groups, politically motivated te:rorist
acts, e.g., skyjacking, etc.

1 [aw 55084 Docld:32969541 Page 10 .

 
rs)

eae

 

es EIS TAR aA LEN BLN a daa Sh hon a Sin grea

eo. @o

“ISSUE: Should the Intelligence Gathering-Function of the FBI

Be Separated From the Law Enforcement Function of the
FBI?

. Note that the issue, as originally raised, referred
to law enforcement and intelligence functions. What was meant
by intelligence was the missions of internal security and
counterintelligence. Criminal’ intelligence, e.g., against
organized crime, was intended to fall within the law enforce-
ment mission. However, the functions of the FBI do not neatly
fall within "intelligence" and “law enforcement" categories.
Internal security cases are both intelligence and law enforce-
ment operations, and counterintelligence sometimes involves
arrests and prosecutions, i.e., law enforcement. To most
accurately reflect the diverse missions of the FBI the terms
law enforcement, internal security, and counterintelligence
will be used throughout this paper.

Preface

° : .
1. The Problem: revolves around the question whether the
three missions can be accommodated by one agency. That is,
axe thoy so distiner in nature thar an organizational struc
ture set up to perform one of the missions absolutely cannot
perform the others; or can all three missions be accommodated
but’ only to the detriment of the others; or can all the missions
be adequately performed by one agency?

2. The Present Policy: is that all three missions are per-
formed by the FBI. The FBI organizational structure is pri-
marily a unitary one, i.e., there is one organization with a
multiplicity of .responsibilities, .which can be broken down
into three general missions, law enforcement, internal secu-
rity (domestic) and counterintelligence (foreign). The
organization's personnel are hired and catalogued into one

of three general functional categories, agent, steno, and to
a lesser degree, clerks, without further differentiation based
on mission, i.e., no employees, with rare exceptions, are
criminal or counterintelligence specialists, all are gener-
alists and are regularly interchanged among the three general
missions. The administration of cases at headquarters and,

to a lesser extent, the conduct of investigations in the field
follow the same format in all three general areas of responsi-
bility.-

. L

H ane 55084 Docld: 32969541 Page @

 

 

 
  

Mr. William D. Ruckelshaus
The Deputy Attorney General - Designate

<
:

. However, we recognize that these two documents may
assist the Department in analyzing our proposal concerning the issuance
‘ of an Executive order and therefore I am enclosing a copy of the two
documents requested by Mr. Goldklang. We request that these documents
not be disseminated outside the Department of Justice; that the documents
. « not be duplicated or photographed; and that, if possible, they be returned
to the FBI after they have served their purpose.

| oe If you, or members of your staff, feel that additional infor-
boo. mation would clarify our proposal, it is suggested that consideration
be given to arranging conferences between members of your staff and
ithe FBI officiels in the Intelligence Division and our Legal Counsel's

| Office who have conducted considerable research into the matter.

2

 

i Enclosures - 2

NOTE:

See memo T. J. Smith to Mr. E. S. Miller dated 8/23/73,
captioned as above, prepared by TJS:bjr. ‘

vee

{

AW 55084 DocId:32989541 Page 7

a

Jancis

 

 
 

 

we - % e

INQUIRY # 2

 

HW 55084 DocId:32989541 Page 5
|

 
 

 

!
|
|
|
Fi
|
|
|
|

 

 

oa henna,

Asst. Dir:
Admin.

Gon. Inv.
Ident.
Inspection
Intell,
Loboratory

Spec. Inv.
Training
Legal Coun,
Cong, Serv.
Corr. & Crm.
Research
Press Off,
Telephone Rim.

wn? S56897

Assoc, Dir,

 

Comp. Syst. ——
Files & Com. —

 

 

 

 

 

Plan. & Eval.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mr. William D. Ruckelshaus

The Deputy Attorney General - Designate August 24, 1973

Director, FBI . a
See eT SL. Tawied! o. a 1- Mr. Mintz
1-Mr. E. 8S. Miller

core opt sorispy TION ae 1-Mr.T. J. Smith a
_AND AUTHORITY IN#OMESTIG ~ > ¥e & ge

INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS ~ RE a

Reference is made to my memorandum to the Attorney General |
August 7, 1973, captioned as above, which among cther things proposed
that an Executive order be issued which would define FBI responsibilities
concerning Federal statutes relating to the national security.

My memorandum made reference to new guidelines recently
issued in manual form and te a study which was prepared in August,
1972, at the request of Acting Director L. Patrick Gray, I.

On August 15, 1973, Mr. Jack Goldkiang, Office of Legal
Counsel, Department of Justice, called Mr. Nicholas P. Callahan's office '
and referred to the guidelines and study mentioned above. He said that 1 4
these documents are likely to be pertinent to his analysis of the proposal \ F
set forth in my memorandum, and he asked that the two documents be \ \
made available to him.

 
 
   

 

For your information, the guidelines referred to are the
recently revised Section $7 of our Manual of Instructions concerning
Investigations of Subversive Organizations and Individuals. As you

know, our Manual of Instructions has not heretofore been disseminated
outside the FBI, although this particular Section (87) was loaned to .
‘the Department for study recently in connection with a request MAd@e waxes ee
of the Department by Senator Edward Mi. Kennedy. Rée. 77 be eombib Fe FBS
3... y AUG 28 919

& “The study made in August, 1972, for ue. Gray was

written anid intended purely for in-house use and deliberations an ;
was not prepared for purposes of dissemination or use by any agency :

olitside the FBlyg .42
SEE NOTE PAGE TWO fe

woke Eis-Ye Dent igigeptred\imnresponse to you bat Eins is not forfdt
-E tegiion “Gutside etlur Committee. Its use és ih eee cia proceedings mS
we a fp oun, C\ugentitee and the co tent may not be disclosed to unauthorized me:

a A out the express approval of the FBI .

— MATL ROOM[] TELETYPE unit (J
DociId: 32969541 Page 6

  
 
  
  

_ TIS:bir (6) B.

   
   
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

‘o>

e

INQUIRY # 1

 

HW 55084 DocId:32989541 Page 2
; a
 

 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 [44
Sc 2107 Note}. Case#: NU 55084 Date: 11-17-2017

 

 

 

HW 5 2939541 Page 1 a
Z . - A
 

 

 

 

eee a

' . ; . My Folt neem |
@ . ©] Mr. Boker ace
fo ® Mr, Callahan ———~

UNIeD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Mr. Cleveland ——

Mr Conrad

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
 

  

 

a XERQE,, d é and t for dissemtt~
ocument ts pre ible in Basp onse to your request and is not for
i Committee! 7 heh use mma fo “offrcmi=proceedings by-

 

Mi. Matmisldt ——- | ur geeverdt — &
WASHINGTON, B.C. 20530 Mr. Heita Mr. fonkins }
: . Mr Marshall —-
Address Reply to the July 20, 1973 a Miles ES.
Division Indicated . Mr. Tho a
and Refer to Initisleand Number wae ee 4
‘ va \ 3 ‘ ‘ ie Be .
a By fr, Baise
ere t > Mr. Barnes 3
. \, Mr. Bewers
: . My, Herington —_
4 €&@ MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Clarence M. Kelley Mn, Bevaley i
‘det Se ; ~Director, FBI Mre, Hogen —. &
sy [nS
wits FROM: William D. Ruckelshaus ook
| —t . F #
wai? = SUBJECT: Substantive J Seues Regarding
oo a the Future of the FBL -
A
Ji 4 ia gD)
yeh cam .
ve Pursuant to our conversation earlier this week, I hereby
| submit a list of issues that will undoubtedly be coming up from
time to time regarding the present and future status of the FBI.
This list is by no means exhaustive, but is a good starting point nc
from which to go forward and come to grips with many of the
problems that will have to be addressed in the near future in one
form or another. The list, in no particular order, is as follows:
1. Wiretaps. The whole question of wiretaps should be :
reviewed with a view toward developing a firm Department-wide *
policy on the issues involved. 1 \ . x
2. The issue of whether the function of intelligence gathering <= _-~ vee
| should t be separated from the law. enforcement function of the.FBL. el
This issue should be studied with particular reference to those * be
cduntries which have adopted this division and a clear analysis of Gi
| the pros and cons developed. From this analysis again should a
a clear ‘policy. \ iY
gue ‘ are BI
y® 3. The statutory basis for the. FBI's intelligence gathering D I
\ functions. Is there any statutory basis? Is the whole function based Es E
on Presidential and Attorne yy General directives ? ? Should a firm. = mt
statutory basis be sought? __ 13 REC SS eerie C0 ee 3 az ‘
a vs i
PO 18 AUG 8 B73 OX

ition outside y:
6 ié 19 Pour. Crummittee a E CORLHETRAL: nut be disclosed to acs Vala aa
49, AUG2 Bot “ nel without the ea iss approval of thé EB! j——

RW spoag, Dpcta:2896954) Rages FN. Ke. Pam 7-27 73 pShopnd ve |

 

 

 
 

 

_ HW 55084

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4, Should the FBI Director be appointed for a term of years?
| (All the issues surrounding the appointment and tenure of the Director
should be explored. } j

5., Should the FBI be an independent agency or continue as part

: los the Justice Department? The pros and cons of this recurrent question
- should bé analyzed again with the purpose of adopting a firm policy.

6. Assuming the FBI remains a part of the Justice Department,
what should be the relationship of the Director to the Attorney General?
All the organizational and substantive relationships should be examined.

1. Investigative techniques. The whole question of the variety
of techniques from clearly legal to clearly illegal should be examined
in some detail. In addition, the question of authorization and
Congressional oversight should be touched upon in this examination.

8. The whole question of files and their disclosure must be
studied with a view toward understanding why files are kept, what
categories of files there are, what information is contained in the
files and whether the purposes for maintaining files are being met
under present policy. In the issue of disclosure, when, where, and
to whom must also be thoroughly examined.

9. The question of a Civilian Review Board for the intelligence
gathering activities of the FBI should be examined. This is a recurrent
. suggestion which came up at the Princeton conference in addition to
other forums.

10. What should be the relationship between the FBI and the other
Departments and Agencies. of the Federal Government? To what extent
should the FBI keep tabs ort,other Departments and Agencies through
the development of sources <a in those Agencies ?

~

Il. Should the FBI have f eign officers reporting directly to
the Director ? -

This list is not exhaustive, but should get us started toward an
indepth examination of some of the problems facing the Bureau in the
future.

ray

WDR:ifhm

DocId: 32989541 Page 4

 

 

 

 
