 

i restricted in movement and in access and for all

: substantial intelligence coverage must rely upon

| their ability to establish and exploit legal resident

| contacts. This in turn is a tenuous business-~

i essentially starting the intelligence process all

i over again--with recruitment, training, furnishing

requirements, reporting, communication, and so forth

being essential. Then too, protection against just

: . such infiltrations has long been a major preoccupa-
tion of the Cuban government. Naval and air patrols,

as well as radar end coast watchers, have ateadily

increased. It ia becoming progressively more diffi-

cult and risky to evade the ever-improving Cuban

countertactics.

Although the nets and contacts established to

i date by illegal infiltrations have been generally
low-level, provincial, and limited in their “intelligence

- contribution to visual observation of OB or ground

i sears, this does not preclude the possibility that

guch an operation could ultimately develop a high-

level source or be designed specifically to recruit

one. Similarly, the tempo of current in/exfiltrations

eould be stepped up by added investment and commitment

of manpower, but we would have to be prepared to suffer

maritime as well as agent losses. The intelligence

from thia type of operation has been small, and, though

| short-term infiltration efforts will continue, it is

| doubtful that a sizable increase in the number of

A4llegal infiltration operations could significantly

affect the quantity of intelligence produced on Cuba.

B. Miscellaneous Collection Techniques and Targeta

Support Assets as Colle ctors

. The Agency has extensive contact with Western
diplomats in Havana, wherever feasible, on a uni~
lateral basia. These officials have not proved to
be of consistent value as intelligence sources although
| the unilateral contacts especially have proven to be
indispensable as support Assets. We have had much
the same experiences with Cuban sailors and ships
1 officers. The Cuban merchant marine has been systen-
! atically exploited by the Agency with good results.

 

 

i
i
t
t
1
!
H
1
|

) -
HW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 9
: Though the officers and sailors who have been

: recruited (some 36 at the present time) have not
provided intelligence of critical value, they have

! made recruitments and provided support to resident

assets and, most important, are of key importance

to the subtle sabotage program,

| Refugee Reporting

Reporting by refugees from Cuba deserves special
mention. It will be recalled that some of the first
reports on the introduction of heavy Soviet missiles
into Cuba (mid-1962) were based on refugee debrief-
ings which preceded by several months evidence
produced by aerial photography. Although refugee
: reports can never equal serial photography in terms
of reliability, timeliness, and detail, they have been
\ : shown to serve as a significant corollary to collection
i by technical means. The flow of refugees, however,
has greatly decreased sinae early 1963.

‘ Ground Observers

Ground observation of the camps and sites may

| provide information on missile sites. This is gained
i by recent refugees who have lived in the neighborhood
\ and who can report the existence of camps and camp

i activity, such as movement of personnel in and out,
to major construction work, and movement of equipment.
Similar information comes from travelers or resident
i agents who pass by the sites, either regularly or on
1 one or two occasions. It must be emphasized that the
coverage is spotty. An increase in quality could
possibly be obtained by selective use of black box
operations against key missile sites.

Port Watchers

Some sources can observe the arrival and unloading
of ships, and their descriptions of the cargo unloaded
ean sometimes reveal the delivery of missile-related
equipment. Such reports dre valuable if the descrip-
tions are clear enough; but again the coverage is
spotty. We do not have sources covering all important

 

_

!
{
1
i rt
|
i

5

AW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 10
AW 53320

 

Debriefing Centers for Cuban Refugees
(Total - 3)

Mexico City. . 1 Madrid. . 1 Miami. . 1

The groups of assets listed above have many uses
beyond those implicit in their titles. Aside from the
collectors whose role is obvious, they consist of
surveillance teams, safehouse keepers, debriefing
teams, commercial spies, accommodation addressees,
translators, and a host of others. The number involved
is one of the best indications of the size of the
Clandestine Services Cuban effort. They are useful
and necessary but seldom, in the nature of things,
produce strategic intelligence.

Intelligence Collection by Illegal Infiltrations

After the Bay of Pigs practically all intelligence
nets in Cuba were completely neutralized. When the
Cuban crisis of 1962 occurred, the Agéncy had developed
two new controlled and responsive teams with known
contacts or sources amounting to approximately 100
persons, Both of these nets have now been rolled up.
As a result of continued losses of illegal teams,
the program has been modified. The new concept has
been to reduce the size of the black teams to five
men or less, infiltrating them for 15 to 30 days to
recruit and train legal residents; operate their
two-way radios; and, of course, to report intelligence
information while they are there. At present we have
eleven such teams organized and prepared in all
respects. Seven of them have been infiltrated into
Cuba one or more times. There are currently seven
nets established by these means inside Cuba (northern
Pinar del Rio ~ 1, northern Matanzas - 1, northern
Las Villas - 2, southern Las Villas - 1, northern
Camaguey - 1, and northern Oriente ~ 1) in various
stages of development. Five-of the nets have estab-
lished, or are in the process of establishing, two-way
radio communications. \

Clearly, this is a feasible means of acquiring
new ooverage. The illegal teams themselves are very

DocId: 32401392 Page 3
HW 53320 DocId:32401392

 

Other Intercept Operations

(Total - 5)
London. 2 we 1 Madrid... . 1
Montevideo . . 1 Berlin. ...1
Mexico City. . 1

fhe types of operations listed above are all
time-consuming, difficult to initiate and manage,
and generally expensive in all respects. Normally
they are judged to be worth the investment in terms
of the general operational information they provide
leading to identification and often recruitment of
Cuban officials. Some, of course, depending upon &
multitude of circumstances which range from the
location of the transmitter to the habits of the
target personnel, do produce disseminable intelli-
gence information. None, however, has produced or
is likely to produce high-level military or security
information which is simply not available outside
Cuba or the Soviet Union itself. .

Third Country Assets
(Total - 205)

Collectors of Information... +--+ ++ 102**
Support Assets... s+ 6 es es et ttt 103**

*¢These figures have dropped during the past
three months mainly due to South American

countries breaking diplomatic relations with
Cuba.

Collection/Support Agents Residing
n the United States ;
(Total - 259)
Collection/Support Groups... - + + +s EEF
«**These groups consist of an unknown number of

Station assets (individuals) being used at
various times on Cuban targets.

bee!

Page 7
for the most part the question of agent selection
. is a matter of opportunities available at any

H given moment, every possible means is utilized

4 to obtain resident assets who have access to
significant data. These assets report almost

i exclusively via secret writing, though a few

have radios. By far most of these assets are

in the Havana area, basically because of the
protective anonymity afforded by the metropolis,

i plus the fact that communication with the prov-

a inces is difficult. We attempt to break this

| cluster pattern by illegal infiltrations of
assets into the provinces, but success is limited
by the many forces which work against illegals.

; Although the numbers of agents are respectable
| by any standards and their reporting performance

| is good and constantly improving, none of them

\ is close to the top political level of the GOC;
none is privy to significant GOC military secrets;
and none can report with any degree of consistency
on the Soviet presence on the island. If such @
prospect exists, present approaches will undoubt-
edly turn him up. If€ is not Likely that increased
expenditure or increased effort in any of the
proven directions will materially increase our
present chances.

Legal Travelers

Periodic Available Travelers. ....... 11
GOC Mariners (Recruited and Reporting). . . 36
Legal Travel Missiona of All Types (1964) . 29

cd

The legal traveler, almost by definition is
never going to be admitted to significant secrets in
a country such as Cuba today. fo the extent that such
travelers are reputed communists or leftists, their
access ia increased, but: outsider of whatever
complexion is going to acquire significant knowledge @
: of the type with which we are concerned.

 

 

HW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 5
 

Penetrations of Cuban Diplomatic Missions

: (Total - 15)

; Mexico City .. 2 New Delhi ...1
London. .... 2 Cairo .....t21
Rome. .....41 The Hague ...il1
Geneva. ....1 Paris .....21
Brussels. . .. 2 Beirut. ....1
fokyo.....k1 Madrid. ....1

. Cuban diplomats (and official travelers as well)
provide perhaps the best chance of securing a high~
level agent inside. They are accessible, recruitable
4 in a decreasing percentage, and can be motivated and

: trained. It is hoped and expected that some of those
now recruited will be returned to Havana to a high~
level foreign office or other governmental post. Based
on our target studies, name checks, and the like, the
present rate of approach to likely recruitees is close

: to 100 per cent world-wide. Increased effort in this

; milieu would merely reduce us to the "cold pitch"
! ' technique which has proven fallible too often to merit
: anything but the most limited and calculated use.

Audio Operations Against Cuban Diplomatic Missions
(Total - 11)

Rome. ....1 Madrid. ...1
Mexico City. . 1 Paria ....4
Copenhagen . . 1 Athens ....1

Brussels ...1 London... . 1

: Telephone Tap Operations

(Total - 14)

London... .1 Lisbon... . 1
The Hague. .. 1 Madrid... .1
Berlin. ... 1 Athens ....1
Santiago... 1 ‘ Oslo. ....21
Rome... ..1 Tokyo. ....t1
Mexico City. . 1 Paris. ....1

HW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 6
 

| . CLANDESTINE SERVICES CUBAN COLLECTION PROGRAM

! I. Factors Favoring Cuban Operations

The clandestine collection effort against Cuba, in its

4 present scope and dimension, had its genesis in early 1962

i when Task Force W was created and the Cuban target was
designated as the highest priority for all components of the
| . Clandestine Services. This organizational push, combined
with certain characteristics of Cuba and the Cubans, resulted
in a truly comprehensive collection program which has endured
to the present time. Compared to other Soviet Bloc or

' Chinese Communist nationalities, the Cubans were omnipresent,
: accessible, and easy to recruit. We were dealing with an
unsettled bourgeois generation only recently subjected to a

; Communist regime, Many, particularly the middle class,

; wanted out or, if forced by various reasons to remain, were

i willing to cooperate in place. Techniques .and tactics of

! population control were at a rudimentary stage, while the
habits, customs, and traditions of the entire populace were

| Western-oriented, particularly towards the United States.

j Cubans of all classes and occupations have some understanding
| of and sympathy for the U.8.; nearly every Cuban has a close
relative or friend in exile in the U.8., Spain, or Latin

America; most of the population is antipathetic to communism
and to Eastern Europeans as such. These factors not only
create a large potential-agent pool, but ease the recruitment
_ problem. The Cuban internal security mechanism, though wide-
spread and intensively active, has not yet measured up to
normal denied-area standards. They are zealous in pursuit
of the counterrevolutionary but still fortunately weak in
pursuit of espionage. Finally, the country itself, being an
island, must communicate and trade to survive, and these
channels have never been rigidly controlled.

 

Il. Factors Militating Against Cuban Operations

i Ranged against these favorable factors, however, are
others which counterbalance our efforts in gomething resembling
an equal proportion. Cubans generally constitute very poor
agent material. They do not know the meaning of security;

 

HW 53320 DocId: 32401392 Page 2
Date: 11/29/99
. . Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA . Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10310-10005 Assassination Records
RECORD SERIES : JFK-MISC : ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CIA-DDP FILES (44 U5C 2107 Note).
-------- + - ----- ee ee eee ase#:NWU 53320 Date:
‘DOCUMENT INFORMATION Pé6r24-2017

 

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : PAPER: CLANDESTINE SERVICES CUBAN COLLECTION PROGRAM
DATE : 00/00/
PAGES : 15
SUBJECTS : CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/21/98
OPENING CRITERIA : :
COMMENTS : JFK-M-07:F1 1998.09.21.08:39:43:500120: ARRB REQUEST.
CIA-IR-34.

HW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 1
 

AW 53320

oy

they do not take orders well; and the lonesome courage
required for espionage is yarely part of their make-up.
They make good fighters but poor spies. It should be
noted too that the GOC is an excessively personalized
regime. To know what is going on at the top, it is
necessary to know what Castro and perhaps two or three
others have on their minds. This severly reduces the
number of potential sources who can provide intelligence
of crucial significance. The Soviets in Cuba--the other
half of the major target--have succeeded in achieving
almost complete isolation from the Cuban population, with
the consequence that agent collection against almost any
facet of the Soviet presence has been virtually impossible.
Finally, the steadily increasing isolation of the island

has worked to our disadvantage by forcing almost complete

reliance upon secret writing and radio, both of which have
severe limitations. Personal meetings with the resident
agents are all but impossible, Material supply is difficult
and possible only in rare instances. Cameras are of limited
use due to the danger to the user plus the virtual impossi-
bility of getting the exposed film off the island within a
reasonable period of time. Cuban economic chaos is so bad
that at times agents must wait weeks for adequate paper on
which to forward their secret writing messages, while the
Cuban postal service is such that mail to the U.5.,
particularly by devious channels, often takes thirty days.

III. The Present Clandestine Collection Program

The main characteristics marking Clandestine Services
operations against Cuba are size, complexity, and diversity.
The collection program is not only world-wide, utilizing all
proven collection techniques, but also parallels action and
support programs such as economic denial; sabotage; a
special program devoted to the utilization of Cuban ships,
sailors, and aircraft; radio and propaganda; a sizable
paramilitary facility; and numerous exile uses. Intelligence
collection has a role in all of these programs either as an
essential element on which the activity is based or as a&
by-product of a program oriented to some other end. In the
case of economic denial, for instance, sound and pervasive
commercial intelligence is a requisite. At the present
time our continuing flow of intelligence relative to Cuban
commercial plans, prospects, and dntentions far outstrips

DocId: 32401392 Page 3
 

our ability or even the necessity to act against them.

In another instance a sabotage project involving oil and
chemical additives has produced some of our best insights
into this area of the Cuban economy. ;

A. Types of Assets and Their Status

t

For purposes of management and operational

reporting, collection assets pertinent to the

| Cuban target have come to be categorized into
Resident Agents, Resident Nets, Legal Travelers,

| and so forth as discussed below under the respective

headings. Each category of assets epitomizes a

collection technique or function involving its

| own disciplines and particular problems.

!

All things considered, the quality of these
! agsets is good. Their reporting is voluminous
' i and comprehensive, providing a complete and
: continuous picture of Cuba and of Cuban government ©
machinations, both within and without the island.
| None of these assets, however, is high-level or
| privy to the basic political and military decisions
i which affect U.S. security. On this score we are
' left with putting bits and pieces of information
i together as indications of intent. There are,
! however, two possibilities for improving the
collection program implicit in the assets listed
: below. Continued work with these assets could
| and will improve their performance in many. respects.
So too the acquisition of additional assets under
any category may well improve our capability in one
: direction or another. The fact remains, however,
: that the odds are always very much against acquiring
\ the right asset in the right place at the right time.

‘ Resident Agents

: , Nets... .10
: (Comprising a “total of 85 * persons)
! Singletons. ... cee ee
: Soviet-Bloc Nationals rr C

This pool of resident agents constantly undergoes
slight quantitative and. qualitative change. Though

HW 53320 DocId:32401392 Page 4
