 

[tusen Lame Keane tame Loon Lane tae care Laon Lint Leen tare

HW 54976
Pee

 

~ .

od.

5.

6.

SECTTON 4, SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS , 4h

A. SURVEILLANCES IN con® é

_ The maintenance of surveillances requires the use of the utmost discretion,
-oommon sense, and good judgment on the part of the SACs and the Agents’. -.>
_Arbitrary rules cannot properly be laid down or adhered to for this type

of investigative procedure. A few general principles can be laid down,
however, which can be applied to various types of surveillances.
A surveillance is an investigative technique just as interviews, collecting

t
a

of evidence, and conducting raids are investigative techniques, and, of

course, practical experience in this particular activity is the best ny
‘teacher, ,
Surveillances are expensive inthat they cause the tying up of manpower and
should not be resorted to unless results can reasonably be expected.

In surveillances in cases of major importance SACs should assume personal,
on—the-scene supervision and not delegate such command to subordinates.

If a sufficient reason exists to prevent the SAC from being personally

‘present at the scene of a major surveillance, the ASAC must be in command.

‘SAC must assure himself that all physical surveillances comply with

Bureau instructions, and are being siven adequate supervison.

FBI employees other than Agents must not be used on surveillances

without specific Bureau authority.

Provide Agents with explicit instructions on each physical surveillance

in which they engage. Agent personnel participating on physical surveillances
shouid be orally advised concerning the duties to be performed in
connection with such surveillances and should not be permitted to carry
with them any written surveillance schedules. If it is necessary to utilize
code words for commun:cations over Bureau radios, the approved list of

code words if too long to be remembered may be furnished to the Agent
driving the car but should not be removed from the car during the course

of the surveillance. When the surveillance has been concluded, the list

.of code words should be returned to the supervisor incharge of the

surveillance.

All written data of any kind relating to physical surveillances must be
turned in by the Agents preparing or utilizing same to the field office
at the conclusion of each day's tour of duty. In some instances

Agents will complete their tour of duty on physical surveillances outside
their headquarters city, and in those cases 1% will not be possible for
any written data they may have to be immediately turned in to the field,
office. However, in such situations, the Agents will be held personally
responsible for safeguarding any such written data until such time as it
can be returned to the field office. In addition, all such written data
relating to physical surveillances must not contain anything which would
indicate to any persons unauthorized to have it that the data relates

to physical surveillances.

In- every security case involving a subject who has been apprehended for
a Pederal violation within our investigative jurisdiction, the office

of origin is to make recommendations to the Bureau concerning the
necessity for physical surveillance coverage of the subject who is free
on bond while awaiting trial or pending appeal following conviction,

The office of origin is te closely follow the appeal proceedings of
security subjects, making arrangements with the Washington Pield Office
or other cffices, where necessary, in order that the office of crigin
can be assured that it is instantaneously notified of any court decision
affecting the merits of the appeal. The office of origin is to promptly
notify the Bureau in such instances, making recommendations for any
changes in the coverage of the subject and whether physical surveillance
should be utilized until he is committed to custody.]

°

This document is prepared | in response to your request and i is not jor dissemi
nation outside your Committee, Its use is limited to offiial proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI .

DocId:32989724 Page 9 L

 
 

4p - Ds . SEGTICY 4, SURVEILLANCES AND RAIDS

“TRAINING @ . va

1. <Afford adequate indoctrination and training to Agents” Rosi gned to physical + ™
‘ gurveillances prior to utilizing them. Training should encompass complete. J
nat! review of pertinent portions of manual and other relevant material and

 

-discussion of desirable and undesirable techniques. Discussion should t
. _ include: .
wo :"+" a, Rotation of automobiles, use of variety of cars, changing license tags

bd. Parking in one place too long, parking where subject can observe,
parking in restricted areas, parking surveillance cars in vicinity
Bureau office, several Agents sitting in parked cars for extended time
oy Point out value of radios and fixed observation posts in aiding with
. “parking problems,
rt +. @, Cover alertness re countersurveillance, attempts of subject to discover
“surveillance, operation of other physical surveillances, persons
“attempting to take license numbers.
e. Discuss conditions peculiar to your territory affecting physical :
surveillances,
2, Complement training in offices having full time surveillancé squads with
conference every two weeks. Conference to include new developments and
pertinent instructions, tos . : are

 

 

°C, REASONS FOR CONDUCTING SURVEILLANCES '

The purpose of the surveillance is an important factor “to keep in mind

at all times, and the Agents assigned to surveillances must know the purpose

in order to function efficiently. The Bureau surveillances usually have

for their purpose one or more of the following:

1, The location of fugitives through the surveillance of relatives or

. known contacts ‘

2. Surveillances conducted to cover pay-offs in extortion cases

3. Surveillance of subjects or suspects in espionage, sabotage, or other
national defense cases to observe their activities and ascertain the
identity of their accomplices

4. Surveillances conducted at the request of other governmental departments

D. ‘TYPES OF SURVEILLANCES a . . os
1, Fixed surveillances . -
Yhese are surveillances often referred to as plants, where the Agents
are stationed'in one location and usually involve the surveillance of
a place to determine the activities and the identity of persons going
in and out of the premises under surveillance.
2, Mobile surveillances .
This is a moving surveillance where the Agents are moving about on foot,
by automobile or on trains, airplanes, or other means of transportation,
surveilling subjects or suspects in Bureau cases, These types of
“surveillances may be broken down into the following categories:
a. Close surveillances
“". Where it is necessary to keep the subjects or suspects under
surveillance at all times and where it may involve considerable
activity to locate the subjects or suspects again if they are —
. lost.
bd. Loose surveillances ‘
. All surveillanes which may be conducted as spot checks to
f - determine the contacts and activities of the subjects or
suspects and where it may be proper to drop the surveillance
temporarily rather than risk the chance of being "made." This
type of surveillance is sometimes desirable in very discreet
investigations involving subjects whose habits and contacts
are so Well known that they can be readily locdted again if
it becomes desirable to drop the surveillance temporarily.

HW 54978 DoclId:32989724 Paye 10 2

 
 

I. Fifteen Sections of the FBI' 8
Manual of Instructions

~
nN
1
™~

Ca “SISK

ENCLOSURE

 

HW 54976 DocId: 32989724 Page @

 
 

INSTRUCTIONS

@ Type or print clearly in ink.
e Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
@ Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community
matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests
should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,
e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary.

 

 

,
~

“~ > f \g
. { 4

HW 54978 DoclId:32989724 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee emcee

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee: a ya ATT

(_) LTR Cag La (Memo [Report dated 4
UsFinn Hise Select Committee. 7/22/75 request
1. Fifteen Sections of the FBI's MOL;EXEX °
2. FBI Indexing Procedures; 3. Tables of
ontents of FBI Forms

Cc
Originating Office FSI
Me Z, =a
Delivered by: . Date: (4 Z
Received by: Athutheg- }
mine teeter) —

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FB!
oe

 

 

ENGLOSURE

HW 54978 DoclId:32989724 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

TE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Community Staff
ATIN: Central Index

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term. If a document was made available
for review but not transmitted, so note.)

sx | oocument | Jorierine [| interview | [testimony | Jorner |

 

. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum ond enclosures

 

5. IN RESPONSE TO (list date and item number if in response to formal request, other- . CLASSIFICATION OF
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.) INFORMATION (enter
u, C, S, TS or

HSC Letter 7/22/75 Codeword)
u

 

. KEY WORDS (enter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not Listed are
used underline for emphasis)

Operating procaduras

. SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

Seetions of tha PDE's Nansel of Instructions; Imloxiag procedures;
Tables of Contents of TBE Foran.

62-116464

FMR: frk

«4) ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
in CONNECTION WITH: SOUSTUDY

TREAT AS YELLOW

 

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE
3791 ¢6-75)

 

HW 54978 DoclId:32989724 Page 6

 

 

 
. 7
. en 3

«a
w~ « L
2-=

ir. J, B. Adans
Mr. J, A, Mintz
CL - i. J. B. Hotis)

\ ; she Atvernoy Coneral September 16, 1975
. Mr, W. RB. Wannall

Me. W. O;. Cregar
te. T. J. MeN+£f

\ pivector, PDE

Dp)

gi STATES HOUSE SELECE COMTETTER

Fos fot fot
1

ON HWSSELIGHICS ACPEVITIZS (HSC)

. Reference ja made to HSC Letter dated duly 22, 1975,
xoquesting materials and docunonts previously provided ‘to the -
aha States Senate Select Committes on Intelligence Activities ~

IoC) >

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the H&C

as ® partial respouse to the ahove-cited request of the HSC,

[- and foruex Special Asents who had been involved in the FDI
investigation of Martin Luther Ring, dr., which was previously
durnished to the Senate Select Committee, was made available to
Me, Richard Vermiere, ESC Starz Meubor Lor review on August 25,
: ' i975, le, Vorniore, in addition ta the attached docunents,

\ requested this list be furnished the HSC,

On August 21, 1975, tho Deputy Special CounseL.Zor
Jntolligence Coordinytion in the Departnent, Steven*Blackhurst,

 

x advised Spseial Agont Paul V. Daly of this Bureau that the HSC
‘ was. not to receive any material related to the Bureau’s investiga~
‘ tion o£ Martin luther King, Jr. Therefore, this list of Special ~

Agents xequested by Vernieve is not included with the attached.

Fe is noted, aacording to available records, this

 

 

   
 
  

   
 
 

Training Sf e
pte Zo dase «x 40)

| aeieyiqy Sonatoonn TELETYPE UNIT [_]
HW ao DoclId:32989724 Page 2

communication fulzilis the request for all material reviewed by
le. Vermiera and cleared by the artuent of dustice, which Ls
hecue watevial had heen previousl 4 7 the Sse. / ; Ji ay
ben aD ayy A copy of this menovandun, is being farm shod for ae
Asst, Dir records, \ .
Conn sya wou SURE ad
Ex. Ais EnCLosures ¢ »F W a
Files & Com. — GB LGAGS i TS NOV 5 1975
fev. —— fo ‘Tho Deputy Attorney General e
Inspection gly Attention: Michael &. Shaheen, ov. iO ia
nell “ eecial Counsel for 2 WN ae
teeta “SNGCOSUpE Rtellinence Coordination
| Spec. Inv. x a x ROOM 2 v . ws
i?) Ry =<

GPO F975 O - 569-920

 

is: the original of a memorandum with enclosure which 18 submitted |

In addition to the attached documents, a list of present

 
 

 

 

 

  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

_ File #:
Ga eye

     

 

 

 

 

| Serial Scope:

| 73x

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

- 1-lM&. J. B, Adams
2—- Mr. J. A. Mintz
(1 - Me, J, B. Hotis)
i - Mr. W. R. Wannall

GR RIGAC4 Sepieuber 16, 1075
1 - Me. W. 0, Cregar
1-M. T. Jd MeNjf?

U. &. HOUSE SELECT COMINTTEE
ON EUTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

RE: REQUEST FOS ALL ENFORMATION PREVIOUSLY
NAGE AVAILADLE BY THE FOE TO THE SENATE
SELECT COMMTTER (S5e)

Redorenco tn made to NSC Lottor dated duty 22, 1075,
xequosting that the BOC be furnighed copies of all docunents
and natoriale provided by the FBI to tho SSG. Dursuant to an
agroonens poached August 10, 1995, by represortacives of this
Barcau, the Ropartment of Jastiee and tho ESC, ai] such natorial
is being nave available to ESC Staff Neabors for reyiov at BBL
Neadquayters, and copies of material so designated by these
Stazi Menbers wild ba processad for delivery to the HSC,

_ Of Ausust 25, 1075, upon conploting hic veview of the
ratorial previously furnished tho D&C, Richard Vermiere, Est
Stall Uowber, eequested that the HSC bo furniched with docucsnis
proviously civon toe SSC in the following categories:
¥. Faztecn Sections of the FRE's Manual of Inctructions;
21. FSI Indoziny Peoeedures:
EXE. Tables of Contents of FOE Forms.

Yn compliance with this request, atbached aro the
roqucated dacunents.

at io noved, according to availiable recorde, this
; coummaication £ulzilis the requost for all material reviowdd by
tee am lit, Vormiero and cleared by the Dopartmont of dustico, vhich
Dep. AD iv. —RAGCOLLAZ Had boon previously furnished to the SS¢.

Asst. Dir:
Admin. 7
Conn, yay HO LOSRN
Ext. Affairs
.

ites & Com —Z_ = The Attorney General

tert. Sb
rnc ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG eae Qe Q
ves — ORIGINAL A bem An

 

Laboratory —_

 

Spee hes Ae Woe jee SEE NOTE PAGE TWO) |, a),
CaN VA -Mir Uri 43K
diecte See'y MAL ROOME]) TELETYPE unr (7) ENCLOSURE GPO + 1905 0 - 660-820

HW 54976 DocId: 32989724 Page 3
 

U. &. House Select Committee
on Intelligence Activities (HSC)

Re: Request for all Information Previously
Made Available by the FBI to the Senate
Select Committee (SSC)

ROTE:

This material which is being furaished the HSC is
material previously furnished the SSC in connection with the
4/30/75 extension by letters 5/19/75 (1) and 5/22/75 (II and III).
This material was among documents which were reviewed by
Richard Vermiere, HSC Staff Member on 8/25/75 and followiag this
review, he requested copies of these particular documents.

No mentions is being made in the LHM of the withheld
documents concerning the Martin Luther Kiag, Jr., investigation.
Since this was a Departmental decision, any inquiry received
from HSC concerning same will be referred to the Departuzent for
response.

HW 54978 DocId:32989724 Page 4

 
