 

$-E> -T
&

 

21. Section K, p.4. Groups with which CIA has exploitable
access or entree include women, labor, students, teachera,
jurists, and other professional classes. International contacts (b
fees labor organizations and members of the Catholic Church will

algo be utilized.

 

 

 

 

-8-

 

   

bys saz Docla:32977075. Page 9

 
 

 

s - <

17. Section D, p.3. Six men, to form the initial nucleus,
have been assessed indepth. Further assessment of candidates
inside and outside Cuba is in progress, and it is expected that ten
of these will be recruited by 15 February.

i8. Section E, p.3. To date fifteen locations have been
selected as suitable centers of resistance because of (1) the presence
there of groups among which there is patent or incipient unrest,

(2) the presence of strategic and tactical targets for use or deacti-
vation, and (3) proximity to potential unconventional warfare areas.

In order of priority, the fifteen centers are Havana, Camaguey, | ]

 

Santa Clara, Cienfuegos, Matanzas, Cardenas, Sancti Spiritus, the
Escambray Mountains, Holguin, Siantago de Cuba, Ciego de Avila,
Baracoa, Pinar del Rio, Manzanillo, and Coton.

19. Section F. p.3. In support of State's efforts CIA hae

conducted propaganda operations, including a number of mass

  
 

demonstrations| in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, | 2
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay,
and Venesuela.

20. Section H, p.4. One TV intrusion operation has been
conducted, on 16 January. Plans for an intrusion during the scheduled
parade and demonstration in Havana are being formulated.

«Te

Ss: = <
ES ©

HW 54214 DoclId:32977075 Page 8

 

 
 

HW 54214.

 

; ties for producing and distributing power, (6) industry, (7) food

S supplies, (8) key military and police installations and materiel.

Part IV (pp. 3 and 4) of the program review.

cld:32977075 Page 7

S$ ON

  

assigning to the economic action group, chaired by the Department /2,

of State, responsibility for overt action designed t deny Canadian Ib |
cio the USSR =a is comnsenl nj
) , Parone 7

12. Task 26, p.7. Together with Tasks 27 and 28, Task 26
constitutes an outline ofa plan for a psychological warfare operation.
These tasks are so closely interrelated that CIA proposes to submit
by 15 February a single plan dealing with all three tasks.

13. Task 27, p.7. See preceding paragraph.

14. Task 28, p.7. See paragraph 12.

18. Task 30, p.7. By 15 February CIA will submit an opera~

tional schedule dealing with the sabotage of (1) shipping in Cuban

 

waters and harbors, (2) Cuban transport facilities, (3) communications

 

facilities, (4) equipment for the refining of petroleum, (5) facili-

 

The achedule will also include the disruption of military and police

 

communications and harasement of military and police training and
personnel.

16. Task 31, p.8. This deadline will be met.

B. ADDITIONAL UNDERTAKINGS | —

 

The following comments are keyed to Sections D through K,

«bs

 

 
  

 

 

eovéd and deception opexations by that date.
7. Task 7, p.5.. Byl February CIA will aubmit an opera-. i

tional schedule for ‘the initiation of an organized resistance move: &

ment inside Cuba. The schedule will include the localities selected -

and the assessment 0 of some candidates. kK full assegament will

- be completed in accordance with the ‘schedule listed in: ‘paras: 4,

7 | seve in conformance with Task 4. ‘it should be noted, however, we 7

 

3 ‘that this operational schedule (like tt the schedules éalled for an

; Tasks 10, 26, and 30) will necessarily be tentative and subject

te later revision as the aumber of assets inside Cuba increases.

  

. and as the flow of intelligence is augmented. Moreover, the
development ofa resistance movement will not remain éonteollante, A
so that operational timetables produced during the next four weeks” Mae
can serve only as guides for a proposed sequence of actions. :

8. Task 10, 9.5. GIA has on hand both propaganda and

"political action assets in the Caribbean area sid elsewhere in.

Latin America. It is planned to use those aseets both to support

the Project ineide Cuba and to gonesate and ’ciobilize public and. 2

official opinion against Castro outeide Cuba. The operational

schedule will be submitted on the stated date.

 

 

 

 

 

9. Task 18, p.6. Discussions with the appropriate AFL- “C10 ca

 

 
 

$-E- =
oO

 

officials have been donducted and a report of developments will be

submitted by 15 February.

 

10. Task 21, p.7. Plane for inducing the failure of crops
will be submitted by 15 February.) These plans will envisage both
the use of controlled assets who can be infiltrated and exfiltrated |o
and the provision of encouragement and guidance to the resistance,
so that it will undertake acts of gabotage, some of which ire to
be directed against crops, particularly vce]
ll. Task 24, p.7. This deadline will also be met. Primary:

methods of disrupting the supply of Cuban nickel to the USSR could,

 

if spproved|incude (1) the sinking of Cuban or Bloc ships by open
attack; (2) the use of "frogman"' or UDT tactics in harbors for the
game purpose; (3) the employment of torpedos and mines toward
this end; and (4) the sabotaging of primary or secondary sources

@(ice) of Cuban nickel, such as} nd Moa plants. CIA now has no | ; I

 

proven internal assets capable of carrying out any of these actions.

The Agency does have external assets capable of undertaking actions

(2) and (3). It also has an external group capable of undertaking

(4) upon the completion of specialized training. All studies,

including a plan for using overt or covert means to prevent re- | ou

& One c) institution of the)

 

upply to the USSR, will be submitted

by 15 Feoruary | It is suggested that consideration be given to

ae

TEeC~ i
E

 

 

   

 
TAB TA'

SUBJECT: Tasks Assigned to CIA in General Lansdale's Program
Review
A. TASKS
Part V, pp. 5-8, of General Lansdale's program review of
the Cuba Project, dated 18 January 1962, assigns 32 specific tasks
to elements of the U.S. Government. Of these, 16 are assigned
to CIA solely or jointly. The tasks have been reviewed by this
Agency, and it has been determined that substantially all reporting
and planning deadlines can be met. Work on all tasks, with and
without assigned dates for completion, is in progress. The
following detailed observations are keyed to General Lansdale's
paper.

l. Taskl, p.5. The intelligence community is hard at

 

work on NIE 85-62 and is attempting to meet the deadline of
7 February. As was agreed in a conversation of 23 January 1962
with General Lansdale, a short extension may be necessary.

2. Task 2, p.5. The Opa-Locka Interrogation Center in
Florida will be in épération on 15 February -- the deadline date :

3. Task 3, p.5. The survey is in progress and will be

 

completed on the stipulated date. On the basis of the information

   

 

$-E ss = Gio) :

HW 54214 DocId:32977075 Page 2.

   

 
 

 

2

Date : 06/25/98

 

Page : 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
oo RGENCY INFORMATION feleased under the John)
. Eennedy

AGENCY : NSC Wesasgsination Records
RECORD NUMBER : 145-10001~-10203 gllection Act of 1992
RECORDS SERIES : (44 USC 2107 Note}.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 280 ase#:NW 54214 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR
; FROM

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS : TASKS ASSIGNED TO CIA IN GENERAL LANSDALE'S PROGRAM
REVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, 4
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION
7

DECLASSIFIGATION
Pt ee OF

DATE: MAR 2016

| HW 54214 DocId:32977075 Page 1

   

 

 
 

Ce (2)

 

 

obtained the possibility of establishing additional interrogation
pointe will be détermined.

4. Task 4, p.5. An operational assessment of the stay-
behind net in Cuba will be completed and reported by the deadline
of 16 February. Because communication: with singleton agents is

ie

by SW, not w/ T, it is unlikely that. dssessment can be completed

by the date stipulated; an extension to 48 February may be

“necessary, although every effort is being made to complete the work

     

before that date An intensive program aimed at the acquisition
of third country assets through the cooperation of liaison services.

ig Also under way, particularly in Spain, Belgium, France,

  

Uruguay, and Costa Rica progress ‘report on the status of

this Programm will, be made by 15 Pebruary, although this Agency

 

 

 

 

|b,

ee

la

 

cannot be sure that the cooperation sé all intended participants will, :

have been obtained by that date. CIA hae also taken the follow-
ing additional steps in respect to Task 4.

a. A cable haa been sent to field stations to give added
impetus to the search for assets and the development of both
unilateral and joint operations. Progress reports have vein :
required by 1 March. .

b. A survey of the Cuban Chinese community and of

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

SEeC-RsES
¥

operational access to it is under way. Target date: end of
February. -

c. An assessment of more than one hundred persons to.
determine their suitability for return to Cuba as agents in”
the guise of atudents is also being conducted. Target date: -
end of February. 7
5. Task 5, op Co The 1 February deadline will be met, and —
a8 by. that date we shall also have begun the search for suitable inter-
mediaries. Analysie to date has not uncovered a top-level official
- of the Cuban regime whose personal characteristics indicate he
would accept recruitment or agree to defection now. Although | & :
some targets of opportunity will appear outside Guba, most planning
will necessarily be based upon an appeal made inside the island by o
intermediaries isivetea from the ranks of journalists, foreign
officials, international businessmen, foreign lawyers, _¢rime
: syndicates, international detectives and foreign police officials.

Additionally, plans for the detection’ St lower- level Guben‘sfficials
abroad have been completed, and the search for targets and access 7 : Z
abroad is under way.
6. ; Task 6, p.5. By the assigned date we shall complete

and submit a coordinated plan. We shall also have begun action on

075 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
