 

   

separately: —

. The charge consists of a block of explosive covered with @ solid,

’ ‘eovered with black insulation tape, At oné of its edges, 2 plugs

. pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serve! as a

 

ss

- v
. . ° °
ce
° OS
. be : °

CT SECRET

Con {dential
1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge, wrapped
‘in sections of a tire inner tube; and fastened ‘by adhesive tape.
Photographs 3 and 4.

 

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled spools
especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten éach of the explosive
charges to metallic parts. Photographs 5 and 6. The magnets,
like the charges, were found wrapped in sections of an inner tube.

  
  
  
 

3) The detonators for the explosive charges. These
were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. 7 :

4) The remnants of ancexplosive charge. It is
thought that farmers in the area accidently discovered it and,
in attempting to see its contents, destroyed it + comploteny. Photo~
graph No. 8. :

 

Of these “remnants; the following were recovered

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic
tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the explosive,
remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh,
plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.

Iv. Identification of the Explosive uaterial. , Vaeuad
_Exaitination. ;

Once all the itens in the area had been. unearthed, we ;
proceeded to é¥amine them in detail in order to attempt to identify —
them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to
featroy. them, should conditions warrant it.

 

   

, oa e' Charge = Rectangulai: in shape with
the foliowing approximate dimensions: 30 x 20% 7 centimeters,
putty<like,, ‘plastic material, the entire surface of: which -wis:, ¢-

fer an iren pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found, ‘These are _ }
fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized ixon pipe
of the: same diameter and approximately 15 centimeters long. The

lodging for the detonators, Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters
in diameter and 10 centimeters long extend along the longitudinal .
axis of the charge. They have screws at the ends which serve to |
fasten them to, the spools.

 

    

. “
Congi<iential

  

DoclId:32289115 Page 9
 

  
    

Maential ”

 

"2 SECRET

° The explosive inside is white in color and plasticelike
Ite characteristics and potency are unknown, It will be necessa
to conduct analyses to determine its class and type. a

It Was ascertained that the explosive charge was not
assembled and ready for detonation, since it did not contain the
' proper elements for r Starting, propagating and amplifying the
detonation. CPs tipvacprlen “Yorn 00

Po. “by Spools=magnets + There are four of them, and they
; consist ‘of spools of approximately 3 x 2 x 1 inches, containing
' gt theiz ends two,metallic plates fastened by bolts. Each of
f these plates has/Bore hole into which the small rods used to hold
the charge aré placed. On the side opposite that.containing the ee
pore hole, there is a metallic plate whose function ig to serve as
the surface which is connected: by the magnet to- any metallic

 

 

 

surface, Photograph No. Li. ; a 7
(, foe
“ Detonators ~ The detonators are of the percussion type . !
and apparently. are- activated by an electric current, They have ie
an approximate length of 25. centimeters and a diametor of 7 to 8 =f. 4
millineters: :

They are composed. of a percussion mechanism, ‘a safety
and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12. .

A Because of the condition in which they were found and
because: they were found to -be safe for handling arid , transpertatio
they were not destroyed.

 

 
   

 

 

Vs Transportationat th Explosives and Theis
the DFS. ‘ : aoe

    
  
   

 

The: éxptosives, onplete: eharge and recovered remnant

detonators d magnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were brought.
ci on the afternoon of the 4th and were handed over to/ *

the Federal 8 curity Police on the. morning of May 5, 1967. Latey, .
A ay, they were sent.to a powder magazine

 

    
   

 

 

at the expl : x having first. been examined by the
Director. of the DiF.S.. é explosives are now at the disposal o
the proper--authorities. _ :

“Attached herewith are 12. photographs tor information
purposes. : oe ; ; oe

 

 

Respectfully,

Effective suffrage, No Re-electi n a]
/a/ illegible
Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

‘ (259458).

 

(15:165508-04

DoclId:32289115 Page 10
 

i

ys

SF:
assifiad hy

oh

x

and other devices which, according to information obtained by the

fy on:

Declassi

  
   
      
  
  
  
    

Department of Military Industry _ CLASSINEN r iyo
~ EXTENDED, j
Subject: Report on Assignment .- REASON £

Tecamachalco, Mexico City; May 8, 1967

| $
fo: Commanding General of the D,E.M. priguae”
Chief of the Department of “Military Industry

Permit me to inform you on the results of the assignment
given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Ciudad Mante
Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967. :

I. Background Information.

 

, As ig already known, the Secretary of the Government,
through the (Mexican) Federal Security Police (D\F.8.), requested
the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in
the finding, identifying and destruction of some "bombs," detonato

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot
near the Mante-C. Victoria ¥oad, between kilometers 643 and 644.

Ii. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were
Found. ;

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and
Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D,F.S., went —
immediately to Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, and arrived at said
plaza at 3:20 A. M., May 8, 1967.

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated
spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the purpose of determini
the indicated zone where, according to the information, was located
the spot where the explosives had been buried.

Be

; At the end of four hours, we succeeded in finding the
exact spot where the explosives had been buried, in a promontory
bordering the left side of the road and approximately 15 meters
from the road, between kilometers 642. and 643. The location is
shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2. Classified by Y 0

Pes, een NAL |
IIT. Location of the Explosivesp...’0, 1°" OX Cilenthy

: SIRMton Inga
In the above-mentioned area, ,in 4 zone no i Feettnay f

25 meters, we unearthed the following:

9 ey .
TRANSLATED BY: CLhgg a ond ir ee

THOMAS MC LAUGHLIN: cspcyo 4%
July 12, 1967... .),- 20x
yun SECRET Joi .

— Be Ke:

 

   

 

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 6
 

 

 

 

SECRET

congyaentte>

MEX 105-6046

    

It is requested” the report, which is in some
detail, be translated at the Bureau and .the translation be
furnished to the Mexico City Office and at that time a
letterhead memorandum concerning the material received from
FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS of DFS will be prepared, €6)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ve eecReR
eograntet Eee

a

   

 

ye ee ee yo

  

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 7
. .
FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

   
   
 

ya

 

  

Bone idgntial

rarer
zy
AIRTEL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ie ioe “IS - CUBA

. front and back, of a cablegram transmitting $200 to ‘3 FOURGIS

. coy
«go

' confidential source abroad), Director, Direccion Federal de

 
 
 
 
    
       
     
  
     
     
        
    
         
        
   
    
      

 

Te ‘ , a . :
*Priority or Method Fue Poe Neo Nr SA ee 3

 
  

Legat, Mexjco City (105-6046) (P)

 
 
 

FRANK, FIORINI, akae,
> ~~ ~-Erank Four 3 et al

& REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP %
IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

 
 

\ay” ATTENTION: CRYPT-TRANS SECTION

  

pe Title is being marked "Changed" to add the alias FRANK
FOURGIS,Cpy which name the Subjegt received cabled funds at
Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, uexicos] (9)

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is a four-page copy
of a report prepared by the Mexican Army, Department of Military
Industry, concerning the recovery of various explosives,
detonators and other material, at Kilometer 643 and 644 north of
Ciudad Marnie, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Also enclosed are 12 copies
of photographs showing the various material which was recovered
and the location of the recovered items, Enclosed also is a copy

  

at the Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico.
Re Bureau airtel to Miami dated 6/27/67.
On 7/5/67 FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS (protect as a

Seguridad (Mexican Federal Security Police ,~ DFS) made avail-
able a complete report dated ie, BE which was prépared ;by th

9} Bureau (Enc. AASENCL Ty EC. rf

qd - Liaigon;Section)'
(2 - Miami, 10541 12890)
42 - Washington Fiera)?
- Mexico city PECL bicl yh

Go) Lae 5 40 4 2! he Eat

   

  

 
 
 

 
 

f fi fy oo EY
COPY AND. SPECT ERS RETAT

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 5
 

 

 

sa

 

 

oo ; 2 ° . . nial -

SECRET

Confidential

MEX 105-6046

 

Mexican Army, Department of Military Industry, which relates
the events of the discovery of the explosives that the Subject
buried near Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, their recovery
and their description, GUTIERREZ BARRIOS also made available

twelve photographs which tie in with the report, showing what
was recovered and where. @

According to this report, one bomb with a double
explosive charge, which was wrapped in an innertube, was recovered
(see photographs #3 and #4); four magnets wrapped in an innertube
were recovered (see photographs #5 and #6), and the detonators
which were recovered were wrapped in plastic (see photograph
#7). The remains of an explosive charge was recovered and it
was believed that this was set off by accident by farmers in the
area, Some explosive material was recovered, Fragments of a
container, a plastic tube, factory tags, remains of newspapers,
pieces of plywood, and fragments of le) plastic cloth were

 

also recovered (see photograph #9).

GUTIERREZ also made available a copy of a cable which
transmitted 2,498 Mexican pesos £$200 UpSia) to FRANK FOURGIS,
Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamgtilipas, Mexico, which appears
to have been sent by one ALDQXFERNANDEZ., This money was received
by FOURGIS and signed for by him at Ciudad Mante on April 13, 19674

GUTIERREZ advised that the report, the copy of the cable,
and the photographs could not: be used in evidence and were
transported to the Mexico City Office solely for.information.

He Said at this point it would not be possible to furnish a
witness who could describe the explosives recovered and testify ~
in a court of law ‘in the U.S. He asked that this information .
be held in complete confidence and advised should it become
necessary for the explosives recovered to be utilized in a court
of law in the United States, and a Mexican witness furnished who
could testify to the recovery of this material and another witness
who could testify regarding the receipt of the money by the
Subject in Ciudad Mante, it would-be necessary to go officially
through official channels diplomatically with the Department of
Justice requesting the. Department of State to arrange for this,
commencing at the Secretariat of Government in Mexico City

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 6
 

7/20/67
‘1 = Mr. Nasca «8

   

airtel

 
  

To: SACs, Miami (10512890) (Enclosures. ath: ee
WFO. (Enclosures = 2) ce ”
Lesptn Hexico- City (108-4046) Ginelsiire) o

: ; . NY
Ae From: Director, FBI. (195-165503) — >

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al
REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP EXTEN

 

 

 

IN MEXICAN POR popsray VERACRUZ Fearn ; =
18 = CUBA s i,
NM - CUBA “etatehhed boy VES DATE Q¢
Declasaify on: OADR oe) DECK SSiFICATION.
: ; ' ReBuairtel 6/27/67 and Mexico City airtel 7/6/87,
copies of which are attached for Miami and WFO. rw)

Attached for éach recipient is copy of translation
of report prepared by Mexican Army, Department. of Military .
industry, dealing with the _Tecovery of the various explosives)
in this dase, .

 

ae ReMexico City airtel indicatés on pagé 2 that the vont
Director of the Mexican Federal Security Police ‘advised that
the report, the cable, and the photographs could not be used
in evidence; that they were furnished the Mexico City Office

~ “solely for information;" and that it would not be possible _

1 to furnish a witness who could describe the explosives recovered
and testify in. court. He asked that this data be held in com-
[nat confidence and outlined the diplomatic procedure to be .
=| followed should it become necessary to have Mexican witnesses. testify
ain thia ease in court regarding the above specifica. ~~ 4

 

 

 

     

eoMure

  

JUL 19 1967 -|

On page 3 of re Mexico City airtel, Legat, Mexico

indicated that upon receipt of the translation of the report .
he, a letterhead memorandum concerning the data received from the

. above-mentioned Mexican official would: be prepared. ‘G4 Ps

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

! Tolson ae
DeLoach
tia - Foreign Liaison Unit caoute havoxgh for Review)
Casper
Callahan oo as “oy 7
ye c
Gale a ee
Rosen
Sullivan.
“SA SUC a. E PAGE T¥
Trot S@JUC 3T assivied hy
fine ang ® Declassify op
Gandy MAIL ROOM TELEPYPE ont SF oe me
Th

 

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10200-10391
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

 

105-165503-34

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 07/06/1967
PAGES: 76

 

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT. PHOTO. PHOTO NE
ORIGINAL

Secret NEW
CLASSIFICATION: = °°" CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: — 03/16/1998 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: INC A/T, MEMO, LHM, EXH, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

DoclId:32289115 Page 1
 

 

 

 

Airtel to SAC, Miami
Re: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al
105-165503

It is not clear to the Bureau from wording in re
Mexico City airtel whether data furnished by Mexican Federal
Security Police can be further disseminated, especially to
the Internal Security Division of the Department which requested
this investigation and to the Department of State with which the
‘Department of Justice would, by necessity, have to discuss the
case to arrange for appropriate testimony of Mexican witnesses.
It appears that restrictions placed by Mexican Federal Security
Police in furnishing data to Legat, Mexico “solely for information"
was possibly to emphasize the fact that the data could not be
used as evidence without proper arrangements made through $
diplomatic channels (Sf

When the above data (which is definitely most perti-
nent to the current investigation) is submitted in Letterhead
memorandum, Clarify above in cover pages therete and specifically
advise what the Internal Security Division of the Department can
be told to assist in gathering evidence and otherwise preparing
its case for possible prosecution. y

. WFO, as indicated in re Bureau airtel, will determine
' from the Office of Munitions Contrel whether the explosives
recovered, by Mexican authorities appear oh the Munitions Controg.
jist. @ , ;

#

who is mentioned in the referenced Mexico City airtel.

oy Miami endeavor to further identify Aldo Fernande Je
LY

Copies of the photographs referred to in the Mexican
Army report are being made and wili be furnished Miami and WFO
separately. All offices handle inquiries in this matter by” @

airtel (6) £

NOTE; Previous information has indicated that subject Fiorini
and others reportedly were involved in plan to bomb ship in Mexico.
In April, 1967, Fiorini and two co panions proceeded to Mexico with
explosives to carry out bombing. Bombing, however, was not carried
out and explosives were buried in Mexico which were recovered by
Mexican authorities based on data furnished by one of the two
individuals who was with Fiorini. Legat, Mexico, has obtained

copy of Mexican Army report and forwarded it to Bureau for trans-
lation. Mexico will incorporate the pertinent data in the report

 
 

NOTE CONTINUED. PAGE THRE:

Lo ep Saeenen  DSVAIIOLSY

s)

 

 

 

4

 

DoclId:32289115 Page 3
 

 

 

‘ a . °
cots t SE
Airtel to SAC, Miami fi

Re: FRANE ANGELO FIORINI, etal
105~165503 ee .

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

Ga memorandum suitable for dissemination. Mexican authorities

also furnished Legat copies of photographs of the recovered |
explosives as well as a copy of a cablegram sent from Miami_ ,
transmitting $200 to subject Fiorini while he was in Mexico.
This cablegram was sent by Aldo Fernandez, not further identiried (5)
The facts in this case have been presented to the Internal

Security Division of the Department which has advised there are
possible violations of Title 18, Section 956 (Conspiracy to ~ :
injure property of a foreign government) and Title 22, Section
1934 (Unlicensed exportation of munitions). Department has
requested certain additional investigation which is being
conducted expeditiously. Ris

 

‘hay ae

ae : é

a cond ential

~3 -~ SECREY

 

 

L , .

DoclId:32289115 Page 4

 
