_ ,  SONEFIDENTIAL.

 

CONGO OIL REFINERY PROBLEM

 

At the time of the Congo's independence and ever since there
have been four petroleum companies operating in the Congo: Mobil
(US), Petrofina (Belgian), Shell (UK), and Texaco (US/Canadian).
They have been exclusively engaged in the distribution of refined
products; there are neither wells nor refineries in the Congo.

A year or so ago, these four companies began serious consi=
deration of a proposal to build a refinery in the Congo which would
ba jointly owned by the four companies (with possiblé provision for
the Congo Government sharing in the ownership) to refine products
for consumption in the Congo with, because of product mix, surplus
for reexport. The erude would be brought in from Gabon. For this
purpose the four companies would form a consortium in the form of a
wholly (or jointly with the COC) owed subsidiary.

The consortium delayed taking any definifive steps toward im
plementation of this proposal until the fate of the Katanga secession
became clear, Shortly after the events of last December=January the
consortium told us that they were preparing a formal approach to the
Congolese Government for permiasion to build the refinery and to pur«
chase land on which to build it. The formal approach was not in fact
made until February 18, 1963, although in December Adoula had given
the project his informal blessing. Meantime, the Italian company, ENI,
sent representatives to Leo and quickly negotiated a contract to build
a refinery. The news of that negotiation became public before the
consortium made its approach to the GOC. The consortium, speaking to
us through Mobil, indicated great concern that the provisions of the
ENI contract were monopolistic and would exclude the consortium refinery
altogether, The consortium also feared that the ENI contract would
ultimately put them out of business ag distributors, Mobil asked us to
use our influence with the GOC to see that it had a chance to-have its
proposal fairly presented and considered by the GOCG. Particularly be-
cause Mobil (to a greater extent than the three other members of the
consortium) had cooperated with the USG in every way with regard to its
activities in Katanga and had seen some risks in doing so, the Department
instructed Ambassador Gullion to make a very firm approach to Adoula
requesting an opportunity for the consortium to present its proposal
and to have it fairly considered by the GOC. Ambassador Gullion made
this approach to Adoula and got his concurrence with our request.

The consortium did net ask for an exclusive right te build a refinery
and has specified its willingness to refine crude for other distributors
including ENI, but is convinced that if it gets permission to build ENT
will not go ahead with ite project. The consortium presented its
proposal to the GOC on February 18, 1963, but the latter has not yat
actad upon it. On instructions, the Ambassador and Embassy officers
‘have from time te time urged officiala of the GOC to approve the
consortium's proposal and our reports have indicated that virtually all of the
Council of Ministers, which must approve it, are in favor of it. There

fs

 

 

HW 49061 DocId: 32626331 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10263 ;
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: “William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
TO: :
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 5/28/1963
PAGES :-472
-SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Congo 2/63-7/63. Box 3.

AW 49061 DocId:32626331 Page 1
 

AW 49061

CONPIDENTIAL —
o2e

has, nevertheless, been considerable delay on this matter, perhaps
indicating a serious lack of agreement among the Council of Ministers.
Mobil and other members of the consortium have indicated that they
believe the Council's failure to act favorably is a result of

bribery by ENI. Our Embassy has stated that there is evidence that
some GOC officials “may have received favors from ENI" and this is
perhaps borne out by the fact that Tona-Masea, Deputy Director,
Bureau of Economic Coordination, is to be President of the ENT-
sponsored Congo refinery company.

: Our ‘moat recent report from the Embassy (Leo's 2891, May 25)
indicates that an Embasay officer raised the matter with Acting
Prime Minister Kasongo on May 22. Although Kasongo stated that he
was concerned about. possible production in excess of the Congo's
requirements and of thé ability to re-export, he nevertheless assured
the Embassy officer that the consortium's proposal would be approved.
(On the other hand, Mobil states that it recently refused a request
from Kasongo for a $2.5 million bribe.)

The same message reported that Mobil's representative in
Leopoldville stated that Mobil and possibly other members of the
consortium would undertake a high pressure publicity campaign to
suggest that the ENI contract (and by implication GOC's failure to
approve the consortium's contract) was the result of corruption in the
Adoula Government. The Department is currently making inquiries about
this suggested publicity campaign by Mobil.

Group 4
Downgraded at 3 year
intervals; declassified
after 12 years.

AF:AFC:AWPord:mr/edr 5/28/63

CONE JDENTIAL

Docld:32626331 Page 3
