-

pil-ase (Rev. 7-16;63)

 

55240 Doold:32989817 Page 3

eos;

* é

(Mount Clipping in Spece Below)

=

The FBI Had A Job
To Do And Did It |

THE SENATE Intelligence
Committee — the so-called Church
Committee — is still sticking pins
in the FBI. .

Thecommittee is issuing a series
of 18 reports critical of the FBI.

Sen. Frank Church (D-Ida.) says
that the FBI sought for 15 years to
discredit and disarm groups and
ideologies ranging from -Commu-
nists to neo-Nazis, from black hate
groups to the Ku Klux Klan.

Thecommittee contends that the
FBI’s countermeasures may have
been illegal.

THE COMMITTEE convenient-
yy forgets it was Congress that

lelegated to the FBI the entire
responsibility for our nation’s in-
ternal security.

It was the FBI’s duly assigned

Mission to protect our established -

order against the wreckers. .
The Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation and its longtime director J.
Edgar Hoover are victims of “‘dis-
crimination.” Its accusers are for-
getting what our nation’s potential
enemies were up to during the
years we are now second-guess-

athe so-called Black Liberation
Army was conducting guerrilla
war are training near Atlanta,

a

From inside a California state
prison, Huey Newton was directing
Black Panther preparation for
armed revolution. In 1970 the Pan-

       
    
      

 
 

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, city and state.)

—— PAGE /S”
_— NASHVILLE BANNER?

NASHVILLE, TENN.

 

 

thers were fomenting terrorism in
cities, on campuses.

With the avowed enemies of our
nation employing more lethal

weapons and kidnaping prominent
persons, what should the one
agency responsible for our nation’s
internal security do? That’s what it :
° Date: G 17 /- 6
"| Edition: /' ?
Author:
Editor: WONHETH E. HORE)
Titles

We still didn’t do enough.

- Between 1971 and 1974some 6,300
weapons were stolen from United
States military bases at home and
abroad. That’s enough to equip for
combat 10 combat battalions.

So the terrorists — in three -
months of 1970 and 1971 ~ dyn-
amited three campus buildings at
the University of Oregon, Ripe-
bombed a GE building in New
York, time-bombed a recruiting
office in College Park, Ga.,
bombed a court building in Ei
Monte, Calif., a civic building in
Los Angeles and two recruiting

Stations in New York.

They bombed and killed in the
Federal Building in Los Angeles
and in Bristow, O! a. They bombed »

     
   
       
 

Character:

or
Classification:G -A/ZO

Submitting Office: NEMPUIS
a] Being Investigated

 

“SEARCHED (NDEXED__-
“SERIALIZED ____- FILED Pine

dui te 76

odcestt

 

 
   
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

wen we é

“4 .
an Army induction center in Oak-
land, Calif., anda Navy Recruitin;
| 4 Center in Queens, Long Island, an
| three stores in Fort Pierce, Fla.

| ALLTHIS OVERT attack on our
| nation’s established order oc-
curred in a period of three months

-Cand, incidentally, since then, while’

“Sour FBI has been further inhibited
}in its countermeasures, terrorist
Yr

HW 55240) Docld:32989817 Page iG

bombings doubled in 1974, tripled. |
in 1975!

And the likes of William Kunstler .

and Russell Means are now bra-
zenly predicting ‘‘violent revolu-
tion in the streets” this year.

Meanwhile, the Senate Intelli- ;
gence Committee, which shouldbe |;

on our side, preoccupies itself with" |

accusing our FBI of playing too
rough. So — I don’t ow

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

Is FBI Or Individual Agent”
Responsible For Illegalities?.

By GARRY WILLS

HE NUREMBURG principle has been chal-

lenged in its international application. Some
say international law is not recognized by all na-
tions; imposed on the conquered, it amounts to
promulgating and enforcing the law simultaneous-
ly. Nonetheless, we as a nation did establish the
Nuremburg principle, and we have tried on occa-
sion to abide by it, even when the criminal was an
American soldier (¢.g., Lt. William Calley).

But even if there are some arguments against
the principle in international affairs, we cannot
logically assert it in a questionable area and deny
it where no such doubts apply. In domestic affairs,
when we are dealing with fellow citizens under a
single legal system, there can be no defense for
breaking a law on the grounds that “I was just
obeying orders.” The judge very eloquently knock-
ed down that defense in the “plumbers” trial.

Many well-documented crimes against Ameri- :

gan citizens have been committed by active agents
qf the CIA and the FBI. Yet no single perpetrator
if those multiple crimes has been convicted. In the
few cases where indictments were brought, the

gencies succeeded in quashing them. But now we
hear that the Justice Department is investigating
the network of FBI agents who committed illegal
searches and seizures in the campaign against the
Socialist Workers Party.

TO SOME AMERICANS, the idea of holding a
“G-Man” to account for undermining the Constitu-
tion is unthinkable. These people have been treated
as above the law. But such an attitude not only did
long-term damage to our society; it reduced FBI

agents to the pawns of an autocratic director. We -

citizens could never question an agent, because an

agent could never question J. Edgar Hoover's

orders. The agents were systematically humiliated,
| regimented, and forced to do dirty work.

As Dostoievsky described the process in “The
Possessed,” nothing strengthened the conspiracy
like the implication of all its members in interre-
. lated crimes. Then no one can “squeal” because. all

are vulnerable. That was the power the FBI had

over its own. .

it is time — long past time — to break that
power. There is no question, now, that FBI agents
broke the law. So: how do we prove that the FBI is
not organizationally committed to law-breaking ex-
cept by prosecution of actual law-breakers? The
effect will be to berate future agents, no matter
how much presently iniplicated agents protest the
unfaimess of punishing them. After all, they were

‘| just following orders, like Fichmann?

| Seri92 sGsrecKFSRANEK hacen ®

 

a RAN, AIRFORCE, AND MARINES!

 

 

See ea

 

x

trial in this matter. Will the government establish ((jpaicate page, name of
and practice that its own agencies are not above | newspaper, city and state.)
the laws they are sworn to execute? After all, if

John Mitchell, a former head of the Justice | |

Department, can stand trial, then why not a hired
burglar for the FBI? .

‘As J say, one result of this will be the liber. | - PAGE §
tion of future government employes from the pre-

~ Youlee SURROUNDED BY ARMY,

you Fal AGENTS cone
ony wat YOURFANES |

ri?

 

   
   

Date: 6=30=76
Edition:

Author: GARRY WILLS
* Edite MTCHAEL GREIL

Title;

9-16.76

sumption that any crimjpal dfmand can be made Character:
upon them. A useful service in this area is being or :
prepared by the Project on Official Mlegalities, Q). ication; 66-2150
under the direction of Ralph Stavins. The project wen
is doing legal research for a mailing to all em- Submitting Office: HEMPHIS
ployes of national security agencies. This mailing :
will remind American citizens of their ight to re-
sist official demands that they break the law, and
it will outline procedures for legal protest and self.
protection. i *
No American citizen should be exposed, ever: Grek
again, to the brow-beating tactics of a master* : . |
criminal like J. Edgar Hoover, or plead such in- wee ‘
timidation in crimes committed against his fellow__
citizens, We did not listen to this excuse when it
was voiced by a Goextzg. We certainly should not,
admit the same plea into our domestic covrterneas ‘

{[] Being Investigated

0G =FANB

 

Lay

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

'
5

HW 55240 Boocld: 32989817

 

“NAACP President” :

Points to New Era_:

More militancy is needed to make sure civil rights
: laws are implemented, Dr. W. Montague Cobb of Wash- '
ington, president of the national organization, said
earlier. : .
“There has been a long series of struggles, led by the .
NAACP, to get civil rights,” Cobb told a press
, conference.

“Now we face a new era, one concerned not so much
with getting laws on the books as getting them properly ©
implemented,” he said. .

“The NAACP must take the ‘offensive in leading

* America out of the sickness it is in. We must get away’ -

~ from the program that racism is the root of all evil. . . it
is not.

. “We have to attack the fundamental nature of man ~
and I do not care by what approach that is done, but it

has to be an educational one,” Cobb said.

At, another point, however, Cobb said racism is a
im of mental illness that handicaps whites more than

lacks.

Through education, said Cobb, man could get to the *
real root of his problems — hate.

“You have got to eradicate hate from human nature -

~as the technique of getting sometiting done,” he said dur- .
ing his first major news conference of the national con-

aVertiony . + te i!

Meee ee cto et tase sb

Page 7

 

 

 

 
     
    
 
     
 
   
 
   
       
       
 
       
   
      

(Mount Clipping in Space Below}

 
 

(Indicate page, name of
newspcper, city and state.)

— PACE 8

—- COMMERCIAL APPEAL

‘Probe Hits More At FBI |

+ The New York Times News Service

1 WASHINGTON — A growing number of past and ,
present executives of the Federal Bureau of Investiga- |
tion, including two aides close to its director, Clarence M. i
, Kelley, have fallen under the scrutiny of the Justice |
' Department’s inquiry into alleged criminal misconduct '
within the bureau, according to sources close to the;
* inquiry. ‘

The investigation of the FBI, the first in the bureau's
history, is considering allegations of financial corruption ;

_ among high bureau officials and the commission of ille- .
, gal burglaries by agents within the last five years, long | !
after that practice was believed to have been halted. \

According to a variety of reliable sources in and out ,

' of the government, the twin investigations have badly :
damaged the bureau’s morale and the efficiency of some
oF «4 erations. retry |

— WEMPHIS, TENN

Date: 7m Que G

Edition:
Author:

Edtter NTCHAEL GREHL

Title:

i

 

Character:

or

Classification: @ 6 ~2/5O
Submitting Office: MEMPHIS

(7) Being Investigated

!
be 's2e0 Doold: 329893817 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ene et Ia me RG nme

 

jHW 55240 Docid: 32385817

tort Fhe

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

“WAACP’s Roy Wilkins Says—-

He Will Refuse

By PAUL VANCIL

Press-Scimitar Statt Writer

In an open break with some. members of
the NAACP board of directors, executive
director Roy Wilkins told delegates at
Cook Covention Center today he would re-
fuse to retire in January as previously
announced.

Wilkins, 75, said he now plans to stay on

until the July 1977 national convention be-
cause a statement that he would retire in
January was made without consulting him
and “a campaign of vilification” had been
started against him by certain board
members.
* Wilkins told the delegates in a short
statement this morning, “Jt was with
shock that I learned that a campaign of
vilification of me had been started. . . by
certain members of the board and contin-
ues until this day. If God is willing I shall
be at the St. Louis convention as an active
directing member of the NAACP family.

“If the board elects to fire me before
that time, then I shall have to cal! upon
you to let me represent your interests di-
rectly.”

_ Ata press conference later, Wilkins re-
fused to name the board members he
referred to, but said there was an organ-

pelt

to Retire

 

ized attempt te oust him by “a small

powerful group.” However, his wife
Minnie said the attempt had started after
Mrs. Margaret Bush Wilson of St. Louis
had become board chairman.

He said the criticisms starting about 18
months ago had affected his health but
did not specify.

Wilkins said he did not know why the
board members wanted him out.

Wilkins said he understood the agree-
ment with the board was that he would
become consultant at executive director's
salary in January if his successor had:
been chosen by them. But Mrs. Wilkins
said a recently drawn contract said he
would become a consultant at only $10,000
per year, a large drop from his reported _
$38,500 per-year.

The NAACP Resolutions Committee.

today proposed a resolution calling for an
investigation of alleged FBI survelliance
of NAACP members and possible criminal
prosecution “of those responsible.”

The call came in the committee’s Civil
Rights Resolution,

The resolution said: “Those responsibl

_persons still employed by the FBI shoul

be disciplined and an independent an
impartial agency appointed by the Con-

-gress to investigate and recommend

appropriate action including criminal

prosecution against those who violated the
- rights of so many Americans.”

Tn the same resolution, President Ford,
and congressional members were called
upon “to cease cheap demagoguery and
begin to obey the law” on schoo! busing.
The resolution also asks for a federal

‘ investigation of “the growing epidemic of

violence against black citizens.”
* Also reported out of committee were
resolutions on foreign affairs, communica-

‘tions, labor and industry, consumer

protection and economic development. All
resolutions may be amended by the dele-
gates, .

Resolutions on education, housing, po-

litical action, health and armed services
are also expected. The delegates will con-

sider the resolutions today and tomorrow.

In the proposed foreign affairs resolu-
tion, the committee noted its approval of
US. policy supporting majority rule by
blacks in African countries. It reaffirmed

. a 1975 resolution calling on American

Page 6

businesses to stop investing in South Afri-
ca “until apartheid is ended and majority
rule becomes reality.”

Monday the delegates adopted an emer-
gency resolution condemning violence
against-blacks in South Africa"

 

    
  
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
     
   

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, city and state.)

—— PAGE 1

—_— MEMPHIS PRESS
SCIMITAR

——MEMPHIS, TENN

Date: 7m f~76
Edition:
Author:

Editor: MILTON BRITIEN

Title:

Character: NIE66 ~2150

or

Classification:

Submitting Office: MEMPHIS

oD Being Investigated

 
   
    
 
 
  

SERIALIZED.

fo!

 

  

    
     
     
 
 
 

JUL2 876.

EBI- MEMPHIS||

 

Es

 
 

fous

eFD-350 (Rev, 7-16-63)

 

Ex-FBI Official
Defends Break-Ins

By EDWARD W. O'BRIEN

Newhouse News Service

 

     
   
   
 
   
    
    
   
 
     
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
  

WASHINGTON — W. Mark Felt, a retired top FBI
official, authorized two clandestine break-ins by FBI
agents to premises invglving radical terrorist organiza-
tions, and he’s proud of it.

If he had refused to permit the agents to carry out
black-bag jobs in search of information about the groups,
“I would have been derelict in my duty,” Felt said in an
interview.

One entry four years ago to an Arab information |.
office in Dallas may have saved American lives, he indi- |:
cated. The FBI agents were able to photograph within
minutes an ultra-secret membership list of 80 U.S. resi-
dents who were members or possible sympathizers of Al
Fatah, the Arab guerrilla organization affiliated with the
Palestinian Liberation Organization. j

Other FBI agents around the country immediately
tracked down the 80 Arabs, interviewed them, “and let
them know they would be watched,” Felt recalled.

Not all of them were bombers, Felt said, but some
were viewed as potential terrorists. The FBI had learned
through informants that Al Fatah feared the FBI and
would be most unlikely to engage, in violence after mem-
bers' identities were known,

The other FBI surreptitious entry approved in
advance by Felt as acting associate director of the bu- |:
reau was in an effort to trace some 20 Weathermen }
fugitives being hunted for federal crimes. The break-in
was conducted in New York but failed to produce the
desired information, because friends and relatives of the
fugitives were extremely careful to avoid revealing clues
to help in their capture.

The Dallas break-in has not stirred any current legal |
problems for the FBI because of the PLO’s obvious con-
nection with foreign governments. But the Weatherman
entry — and others allegedly carried out against the
Socialist Workers Party, a Marxist organization — are
being investigated.

 

er pn nrc

time are dismayed by the irivestigations. Most of his one-
time colleagues have chosen to remain publicly silent in |
the face of possible indictments.
But Felt is outspoken about his actions prior to his |

1973 retirement and the reasons for them.
The break-ins were morally and probably legaily
justified, he said, citing this quotation from Thomas |
to * Jefferson: “A strict adherence to written laws is not the
-highest duty of good citizens. The laws of self-preserva-
pore tion, of saving the country when danger abounds, are of
I -S-haee more importance, for without a nation there would be no

Busco Constitution.”

A 1972 Supreme Court decision held that surrepti-
tious entry, without a warrant, to install an eavesdrop-

targé hae a, “significant” connection with: a’ foreign
powe., he said.

=
“

-NW_5524 989817 Page 2

 

Felt and others of the FBI's highest hierarchy at that | °

ping dwvice against a domestic target, is lawful if the }_

 

    
   
     
 
   
 
      
     
   
     
      
     
     
   

 
 

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, city and state.)

~— PAGE 4

—— COMMERCIAL APPRAL

— WEMPHIS, TENN

Date: JAN . 1, 1977

Edition:
Author:
Editor:
Title:

SENS TUDY +75

Character:

or HE66-2150

Classification:

Submitting Office: MEMPHIS

(7) Being Investigated

 

 

 
DONOT. |
‘DESTROY
i FOUPA# : _

 

 

 

 

 
  

In the case of the Weatherman break-in, the FBI has |
, recently filed with the, Justice Department a 500-page
. report documenting the organization’s ties with the Fidel
' Castro regime in Cuba.

“The Weatherman underground consists of a group
of vicious criminals who arrogantly claim credit for hun-
dreds of bombings and other acts of violence,” Felt said.
“They claim more than $10 million worth of damage to
public and private property.

“They bombed our Capitol, the Pentagon and the
State Department, to mention but a few. They brag that
they are Communist revolutionaries. Fidel Castro is their |:
mentor.

“It is very important to view the actions of the FBI |
in the light of the time frame in which they occurred. ...

“There are some who would argue that if a violent
action is motivated by political considerations, the FBI
should not intervene until after the crime actually |,
occurs,

“There can be no double standard. Violence is vio-
lence, and murder is murder.”

Felt dismissed as ridiculous any claim that the FBI
has conducted massive surveillance of liberals or dissi-
dents. He gave these specifics: The FBI has 8,000 agents
in Washington and 59 field offices, It takes a minimum of |.
six agents to conduct round-the-clock surveillance of one
person. If all FBI agents were assigned to such work and
nothing else, the FBI could monitor fewer than 1,500
persons, -oRS

As for wiretapping, he said the maximum number of
national security telephone taps at one time under the
late J. Edgar Hoover was about 40, and under his succes-
sor, L. Patrick Gray, the high was about 100. The total
number of organized crime taps during a year was ap-
proximately 250, he said.

These figures, he said, should be evaluated against a
total of more than 200 million telephones in the United
States. :

After a 31-year career in the FBI, including service:
from 1958 to 1962 as special agent in charge of the’
Kansas City, Mo., office, Felt said, he can assure the
American people of the bureau’s dedication to protecting:
their rights as individuals.

“The FBI has always made a very great effort to see
that an investigation was aimed at clearing the innocent.
as well as finding the guilty,” he said. He is familiar with
law enforcement practices in Britain and other democra-
cies,-he said, “and none of them goes to the lengths we do!
in protecting the rights of the individual.”

Felt testified before the current Washington grand’
jury and made, he’said, a full disclosure about the break-
ins.

“My feeling is that I will not be indicated,” he said..
“If Lam, I am confidetit ‘that a trial jury would vindicate!
mein the actions I took to protect the covstry.

 

NW 55240 Dooclid: 32989817 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

F1-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

 

SOME OF THE domestic intelligence
burglaries conducted by the FBI in 1972
are now being laid ac the feet of L. Patrick
Gray ITI, who was briefly acting director
after the death of J. Edgar Hoover in May

of that year.

It’s hard to know what was happening
within the Federal Burea': of Investiga-
tion at that time. W. Mark Felt, former
associate FBI director, says he approved

“burglaries because he hed beard Gray say
“he would approve these things.” Edward
-§. Miller, former head of FBI intelligence,

says Gray approved such break-ins in a
conversation at which there was no third-
party witness. Gray, through his lawyer,

has denied “condoning or approving, di-

FBI.

rectly or indircetly, any illegal act” by the

eee tee) :
It should be remembered that the
summer of '72 was the time Gray was up
to his neck in problems involving the con-
tents of “plumber” Howard Hunt’s safe,
the CIA and White House aide John Dean

.=- a time when, he told the Senate Water-

gate investigators, “1, was confused,

suncertain and uneasy.”

. Gray has testified he had several
briefings from Mark Felt, and gave Felt
directions, in that per’ d. ‘ihest had to do
with CIA relations and the Hunt papers,
which were not what Gray took them to
be, and which he wrongly destroyed think-
ing, he said, he was protecting national

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

“security. In the end, when his Senate con- °

firmation hearings brought out much of

this, Gray found himself, in the words of, :

former President Nixon's aide, John Ehr-

lichman, being eft to “hang there” and

.“twist slowly in the wind.”

Speaking of his mistake in burning
‘the Hunt papers, Gray told the Watergate
Committee in August, 1973: “I shall carry
the burden of that act with me always.”

LOOKING AT THE statements made
about Gray and the FBI burglaries this
week by Felt and Miller,

seent prophetic.

But more than that, the FBI coutinues

vay’s words

—HW-55240—BDoeid: 32955817. Paqe 4

 

—Seill “Twistifig Slowly’ —

to carry the burden — and so does its
present director, Clarence M. Kelley.

Kelley is having to devote so much
time to trying to save a little of the FBI's
credibility and morale that he is left little -
time for running what is one of the most
important agencies. of federal
government.

It is good to clean up past FBI: errors.
And it is vital to be assured that the FBI
is not still governed by old-time loyal
Hoover hands who i: -tinctiveiy obey past
conditioning.

Somewhere the FBI needs a line to
divide the abuses of the past and the ef-
forts to live by the new rules. We need the
FBI to fight crime and subversion. We
need an Y'BI free of political interference.
We need an FBI that can be proud of it
self and make us proud of it.

It cannot be left to go cas Gray .

was, “twisting slowly in the wind.”

 

    

  

(Indicate page, name of
newspaper, cily and state.)

 
     
   
 
   
               
   
   
   
     
 
   
  
 

— PAGE 4
— COMMERICAL APPRAL

— HEMPRIS, TENN

Date:
‘pal tion:
Author:
Editor:
Title:

8/20/76

EDITORIAL

Character:

or
Classifications 6-2 /
Submitting Office: NEMPLIS

fla 2c

FBI=

 

 

 
