 

 

Lo

f
of! f
© O
aD i~ 4
Frequently we institute special coverage to establish
the activities and contacts of various Internationally known Cs3 ee
figures whe visit thig country such as(Madame Ngo Dink Nhu of Ged
South Vietnam, Cheddi Jagan, Marxist P¥Ime Minister of British)! .UiMO Ii
Guiana, and Cathal Goulding, Chief of Staff of the irish Repub- §
lican Army |who was here last month to obtain United States support
for hie organization. We have just completed special coverage of
this nature on Juan Bosch, deposed President of the Dominican
Republic. This was done at the specific request of the Honorable
Ralph A. Dungan, of the White House StafZ, and resulted in pro-= . :
Queing information showing that Boseh is conducting an active
campaign urging that the Dominican people overthrow the army.

AS a result of cur coverage of (Cheddi Jagan,|we have
learned that his United States representative is considering
asking the Cubans and Russians te prepare a plan for guerrilia
warfare in(British Guiand.\ We have alse cone up with strong CS
indications the Boviets dfe financially supporting (Jagan jthrough C5}
communist contacts in the United States. ;

Major Criminal Investigations

Hoffa Case

, he tvo principal cases in which Jamés Riddle Hoffa,
President of the Teamsters Union, is now under indictment include
an indictment of Hoffa and six others at Nashvilie on May 9, 1963,
on charges of Obstruction of Justice and the indictment of Hoffa
and seven others in Chicage on June 4, 1963, for mail fraud, fraud
by wire and conspiracy. Trial date in the Nashville ense set for |
January 6, 1964, and tentative trial date on the Chicago case set
for February 3, 1904.

Baker Cape

" e have received thirty-eight requests from the Depart«
ment for inquiries vegarding possible conflict of interest or
fraud against the Government on the part of Robert G. Baker,
former Senate Majority Secretary.

Antitrust juvestigation of Steel industry
otober e Antitrust Division requested

n , ’
we locate witnesses and review hotel registration records to |
determine whether representatives of steel companies were in
New York City and Cincinneti, Ohic, for meetings on the sane .
dates from 1955 to date. This 49 to assist a grand jury inquiry
authorized by the Attorney General and former President Kennedy
looking into. pricing activities of steol companies on four major
Steel products, This grand jury in effect ig a continuation of
the 1962 grand jury inquiry relative to the increase of steal
prices on April 10, 1962, The investigation requested of the
Bureau by the Antitrust Division has been completed.

Cuse Involving Bowbing of Canadian Freighter

an) are investigating the bombing on September 6, 1963,
at Chicago of the Canadian freighter, “Howard L. Shaw," which
appears to be a direct result ofa jurisdictional dispute between

- Fm 1 SHORE

 

 

   
 

 

HW 55355 DocId:32305055 Page 7
 

 

 

 

 

 

oN ors

rc Ka —
“‘thef'Gimne \cas S)
(on September 17,| 1962, the cooperation of a fuenber
a

  
 

cs}

L: Penetration of Soviet Illegal Operations Up

of the Czéehosleyakian United Natiens Missien|vas obt oft S REL
(code name|Gimme).\ Through this source we have ebteainod SsJOcu
voluminous information concerning Gacchaotovabs calintettigence C5
operations ane targets in the Uni States. ah 8 particular

(defector in place has peraznes so fesmonnoraess) 1a] and has agreed C$

to furnish information{ from ther,

 
   

uc informant entered the United States(as a Hungarian ( $ _\
refugee February 1957, (under cover of the Hungarian Refugeso

Program, \ Following xeeruitment(in Hungarj)es an illegal agent “Cs

and digpaitch to the United States with high-level intelligence
nesignments, he has guccesefully carried out an extremely valu-

able double_agent rele under our direction(Zor ever six and one- CSI |
half years.) His most significant asaig @ are to(pinpoint Csy !
location long-range ballistic nigsiles in Several areas of i
the United Statedfx)

“SEK Act 6 (1) (B)
JFK Act 6 (1) (C)

the Yugostav| Intelligence sorties (3)

mn July, oped (the Piree Seeretary of the Cs3

Yugeslay Embassy eiLsie, ue developed, a2 a source.| Through hin

we have obtainedka penetrating picture of [ugesl intelligence Ss)
perationa in the United States, as well as policy plangit the Ge]

Yugoslav Government jin dealing with important political ‘situa °
tions, As a result of information furnished by this source,

action has been inifiated to neutralize cixz Government employees

known te have been aluea(¥ Yugoolav \intelligence sources (5)

important in the Soviet-blec intelligence systen is
the undercover or illegal agent sent te this country who hac | .
no diplowatic or official status, He is the sophisticate of
espionage whe uses fraudulent decuments, claborate codes, secret
inks, microflim and covert financial suppert te avold detection,
Networke of illegal agents serve te bolster the espionage active
ities of Soviet«biec officials and are prepared te take over ali
ecepionage operations in the event of war or ether emergency which
results in a break of diplomatic relations /

To neutralige the threat posed by this illegal appara~
tus we have resorted te highly uncenventienal end imaginative
- Yechniques which have resulted in our penetration of a number
ef these eperntions, One ef these operationa involves the two
Soviet illegal agents uging the identities of Rebeort K. Baltch
and Joy Ann Baitch who were arrested by us in Washington, D. C.,
this summer and are presently awaiting trial, The princioal 7

| - §- SECRET

 

HW 55355 DocId:32305055 Page 5
 

 

 

ee

‘a N

oo _.
a Government vidios in this prosecution wiil be a Sovict illegal

 

 
     
     

  

Ono of our most valuable_contributions in the s ty
: : : off materials. 5)
states for use
: These operas
ions have involved(the opening of Decking mechanione Cs)
on safes, the penetration and subseq q ES] ation of thesx .
contents.) As of today, the value of materiar Cs}
obtained. by. ie Bureau from(47 foreign est ishnentea jhas been cs ;
$10,955,500.%. The real worth of the material, hovever, lies in |
its incaleilable intelligence value te agencies and officiale of 3
our Government. s . & :
SRK Act 6 (1) (B) !

Cuban Matters .

Our investigations in the Cuban area have been most
intense since Castro ascended to power January 1, 1959. We have
concentrated not only on pro«Castro individuals but on such
groups as the Pair Play for Cuba Committee, organized in New York
City in April, 1960, to serve as a propaganda organ for Castro.
{Lee Harvey Ofwald, accused assassinator of President Kennedy,
claimed to head a chapter of this group in New Orleans.)

We have specialized coverage of(three nigh-lével Cuban(s)
3 ose potivities are being directed frem Cuba

       

: o the Dnited

@ Cuban Governnent under the guise of refugees to carry out
antelligence activities against this country are cooperating with
the PBI and their agtivities are now being directed against the
Cuban Governnent ve

  

in late Octobér, 1963, (ene of our sources ,| who has theCs.)
confidence of Cuban Foreign Minister Raul Roa Garcia and the
Foreign Minister's son, Cuban Ambassador to Brazil Raui Rea Kouri,
(s\was sent\to Brazil to visit with Raul Roa Kouri, Vital information
concerning the extent of Castro's influence in South America and :
future plans of the Cuban Government wae obtained. 7°sv \

feces ee of (Non-Soviet«Bloe \HatterayVS )

 

CsD We maintain coverage of certain(non-Soviet=blos) countrios
in order to produce intelligence information of value to the various
United States Government agencies. One of the principal means O28)
accomplishing this is by maintaining technical surveillances on |,
foreign diplomatic establishments in this country. As of today IO,

(27 aigferent countries -(s) a

have[47 such surveillances on

 

HW 55355 DocId:32305055 Page 6
 

omy

 

 

 

SECREL

CIA HAS NG OBJCCTICN TO Page

DECLASSIREATION AND/OR,

RELEASE Gr CiA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. mma 9-99-99"
i

. TABLE OF CONTENTS

Recent FBI High Lights
Communiat Party, USA

Communion and the Negro Movement i
Prosecutive Action Under the imternal Security 2
Aet of 1950

   
   
   
 

 

   
   
 

[ Penetration of Geviet~bloc Intekligeries services fete) 3

The Fedora Case " 3

fhe Tophat Case _ 3

mo(Hicknack \Case -_ 4 |
{Gine(tsterJoanaye 4
rofortns|oaesys/ 4
Geattendioectts $
ne(Canay\caseh{®) 6) 5
Penetration of fre Yugoslav [Intelligence Service Ke 5
Penetration of Soviet Illegal Operations t 4 yb a 5
Scientific Counterattack CUACeiFicD BY Sab&E 8
Cuban Matters DECLASSIFY GN: SEX : 6
Reoveraze os(Non-Sovict~bioc platters} 6) 8
Wajor Criminal Investigations q
Hoffa Case . @
Baker Case a
Ka

 

Antitrust Investigation of Steel Industry

f

   

i

i

Coe
Na

GY 57, oy A
SECRET cwnosued, le7om

HW 55355 DocId:32305055 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

Released under the John F.

 

AGENCY: FBI ennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10287-10185 Poo? (44 USC 2107 Note) .
ase#:NU S5355 Date:
RECORD SERIES :. HQ wines ol”

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: = CR 94-57090-26, 28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI.
FROM:. SULLIVAN, W.C.
TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE: = 12/04/1963
PAGES: 15

SUBJECTS :
CC, CP, ASSOC, TRA, FINANCES, PRO-CASTRO, FPCC, JHO,
ARREST, ASSA, JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 12/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE, MEMO

9.1
HW55355 Docld:32305055 Page 1
 

 

 

 

, . a :
he 2 Sod,
[ Ponotratzon of Soviet-bloc Intelligence Services Ae os:

Cm

C

HW 55355

 

 

UAE Il
The Goviet-blec countries ere conducting o massive, ~~
wellscoordinated ceplonage attack against this country. As of
November 20, 1963, there wore 285 known or highly suspected cs}
Soviot-blec intellaigenee officers in the Uniied States assigne

to the various establishments of the Soviet biec in this country St.

Te thyart their efforts we have conducted an all-out
offensive to penetrate their organization, defect their personnel
and develop those defectors in the very heart of their antellie
gence appardtus.. We have bean unusually succeseful in developing
such defectora,

The Fedora case SG) (U)

For example, one Soviet officer (cede name Fedora)
began cooperating in May, 1962, He is an officer of the KGB
(Committee of State Sceurity of the USER) assigned to the Seviet
Wiegion te the United Nations. He has gurniohed information
regording approximately 60 agents boing operated by KGB officers
in various countries of the world, Six of these are actualiy
FBE dowble agents operating against the KGB. (A) /\y

This officer plae furnishes inside information from
KGB headquarters, For example, John Butenke, an American
engineer, and Igor Ivanov, a KGB Anterg employee, were arrested
ou espionage charged October 29, 1963, Three other KGB officers
attached ‘to the Soviet Misaion to the United Nations were expelled
from the United States for their complicity in the conspiracy.
Our defector was able te tell us of the extrenc consternation
at KGB headquarters, One third of the KGB seientif£ic csplonage
officers in New York had been lest at one stroke.(¥) (U)

The Tophat cose \(A(4
Sack Edward Dunlap was an Army sergeant ascigned to

“ the Natiensl Security Agency (NSA) who committed guicida the

night of July 22/93, 1963, His widew, on Auguot 20, 1968, fure
nished Arny investigniers twelve classified Government documents
she claimed she found ip her attic after his death, After the
FBI ontered the caso Auguat 23, 1963, additional clagcizied
documents were found and Dunlap's widew admitted Dunlap had
admitted to her before bie Suicide that he waa selling informa
tion to the Bovsots. 4 (it)

— Boe

Docld:32305055 Page 3

 

 

   
 

 

 

we, Pan

i

; Cto clear the Geop in July, but State declined to permit at, With
State approval CLA cleared the Grop in August and found a very
important message which said, im part: "Most important agent ; ¥
Jack Edward Dunlap, 1 Gilmore Street, Glen Burnic, Maryland, at <1!
NBA, He come to Kogtyuk’ himselg May, 1961," (akhdal Kostyuk was |
Soviet Air Attache, et Enbassy, Vachington, B, C,, from duly,
L958, to August, 1942.) ti) . re BO

'

     

Analysis of the complete hessage and the manner in
which it waa. pinced in. the drop indicates it was probably placed
in the drop in June, 1983, Had the State Department permitted
Cl& to cldear the ‘arop. in early July, . appropriate moasures could

.. have been taken ‘against Dunlap peioxr £0 BES Sutehde. Ke )(U) mo
AZ Nicknack \case¥S). 7 oe ts
, Cin March ,|.1963,(we successfully defected and operated Cs)
in place another Loyee of the Bovi Mission to the United 7 |
Nations|\ (code nameG@ickneck}) He has furnished us documents: of CS.
military sienificance Mincluding ovint jeveluations of the defense C 6}
Austallations (in the New York aud Bostonlaress, fhe United StateaCs
CAtr Forcejhas advised that these(Govietidocuments are somplete and
eceprate regorte_of equipwent and capabilitiesXe? the (Nerth Amore sj
_ican Alr Befense jas of. tha ‘time they were writtén, The information
, 98 our installations was obtainedf/by the (Sovicts through reconnaige
'. #aice end through the use of mobile electronic devices, S)r.

‘

ee (7 .-) source. 49, now. in the Sovict Union,| Trough an C so
.. » Ingenious tethed (he recently communicated with us end |furnished sj
| information of significant military intelligence. Gr :

1s YfaneL tit tex |casdh(s!

oo . (uring Nevenber , | 1963 (we defecteasand are mow GovelopingC J
fie #(Boviet 2 telligence officer code name Miter) employed in. the C.
, .. United Nations Hecretariat.| We expent. that. he will be able tg)

. uradsh information of aipolitical nature,(ebich he has ogrecd to dof)

, Kan Prime Jeane iS) ps
Seorty in 1963 ‘we. developed (as @ defector in place the(_S )

"Code @lerk at. the Polish United Nations Delegation lin New York.
City (code name(Prine},\. ‘Through information. furnished us by -‘thisl $3
source, the United States Government on 2 deliy bagis 4 ic to y

nn repo
/:., resentative In New York, Jase evaluated this source noting that

 

 

 

 

               
  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

his date copld not be bought for dollars and wiper very welt —ye
ce superheul) of this century,
7 fe beasts eommmaeattens, Wake} tconce supe a contnry (5)

aan ON Pe Th a as 0 .

   
 
 

oO) Aino AULD
A ALEASE IN PART
cee UAL DENTAL

HW 55355 DocId:32305055 Page 4

 

   
