 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Entoliagance

|

The Comittee would also Like to know the followin :
. . i

ion of

9. Atonic Energy Coumission Divis

 

Treasury Department Intelligence Division

L
I rr Or

“Where in the Federal. budget does cach or any portion
of the above-mentioned amounts appear? Indicate to

the closest possible desree of specificity, designating
} such amounts by the accounts or Line items, or combina-
tions of accounts or Line itews, under which the
amounts are. included, and any language in the budg
which explains or indicates the purposé or purpose
for which such amounts will be spent.

 

et
s

a "What is the legislative authority for each of the
‘ , above-listed appropriations and expenditures?"

We would appreciate

your reviewing these items and responding at

} your earliest convenience. We have advised members of your staff of
this request. We will be happy to work directly with your. staff to meet
this congressional need. . To tha extent that any of this information is
not available, we will need, in writing, the legislative citations or

: precedents For not supplying the data. .
i. . .
i i : sincerely yours aa
i .
a con Meat
o ; _ " .s . . DL. Seantlebury © * -
. : : : . Director

¥ cld:32989530 Page 9 _

 

   
TO

Numer:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10° * “sot0-108 a wy or) a
MAY 1962 EDIHON . (i iy . ¢
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 57 A (

UNITED STATES Mb ecssicse . \ : : .

: MR. CALLAHAN DATE:

Dép. AD No

Memorandum ole ) ae
3/7/75 {4 pre

Admin.

Cle

 

  

 

  
 

ihbeneon
oS oon mperanoren eNOS oa ee nein):
. J, B, ADAMS HEREIN 18 UNCLASS: 7 mei A
“{] pare_LI-Z- 3 eee
‘ Plon. & Evol _
en TESTIMONY an \ se /
A,

 

Cia i Saf ohtn.
mt CQ ens ie ~ IS") {a on a Rm. — ©
irector See’y __.

Ke a aeked that in connection with future testimony ,

we prepare two papers’ One is to be a dissertation about our procedures foes ae
in opening and closing domestic security cases, including the application rs
of criteria for opening such cases and determining how long the cases

should remain in a pending status(QvThe second paper is to involve the
jurisdiction of the President to authorize unusual investigative techniques

in foreign intelligence investigations such as wiretaps, microphones

and surreptitious entries. This should include a definition of his

Constitutional powers and the derivative author ity invested in the Attorney
General and the FBI.

in connection with these two papers, it is desired that there be
coordination between the Intelligence Division, Legal Counsel Division
and writers in the External Affairs Division, who should participate in the
basic research and discussions and prepare "the final paper outlining the
research and analysis of the other two divisions.

Mr. Kelley's purpose is to have papers available on various topics
such as this which reduce technical dissertations to a style which can be
used for argumentative purposes in an easily understood form. The types
of questions he receives generally do not require a highly technical response
but a concise presentation of the issues involved and the propriety of our

 

procedures. ———
I-11 6 3 Fs
-ACTTION: ope, NOT RECORDED. =:-<
For information. , —— APR AZA975..
JBA:ame\ yet wa
(6) OR

1 - Mr. Jenkins
1 - Mr. Moore
1 - Mr. Mintz
1 - Mr. Wannall

(1) ni dé ladde cK, Dive ae Loky oF
.) wayeeds hodcy, Duet + i & ap 8 \

  

LB 4 APR 8. ‘ows Page 10

 

 

 

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

tg ; I : 7
~ ae 6 . . 5 . of. ~
. UNITED, STATES GENERAL ACCOU:. Devece _
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20843 | | : *. . ,
| | ,
DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND . .
GENERAL MAHAGEMENT STUQES , ve

( .
- FEB 24 1975 ~
Max. Paul WH. O'Neil)

- Deputy Director
Office of Management and Budget

Dear Nr. O'Neill:: ML . Le af

We have recently received a request from a Member of ‘the Senate H
Budget Committee for our assistance in obtaining budget data with ;
respect to various intelligence activities of the Federal Government.
We have the budget data that is publicly available. However, as you are’
aware, most of the requested information is not readily available and ~
is usually provided to the Congress in limited briefings. We have
discussed this matter with representatives of the Senate Budget Committee
and it is their desire to‘obtain the requested data by other than oral
briefings. :

s

The request involves amounts of budget authority for fiscal years
g974 and 1575 by each of ithe following agencies, and the actuel outlays
by each such agency during FY 1974.

1. Central Intelligence Agency

2. National Security Agency .

 

“3, “Defense Intelligence Agency
4, Army Intelligence
; oo. 5. Naval Intelligence

6. Air Force Intelligence (including the National
Reconnaissance Office)

7. State Department Bureau of Intelligence and Research

. 8. Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Security
iH Division

C2-S//CBIRGm

, {  ENctosuRE

 

: a “y ff {

. —— ae i

| ‘ = " . i j . be
} 55073 Docld:32989530 Page 8 ——niee i |

 
 

 

a : i _ OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
ROUTE SLIP |

 

     
  
  
  
  
     
 

* Take nocessary action i)
to_Mx. Hoobler ‘

Approvol or signature i)

 

 

Comment im
a Prepare roply im)
Discuss with me J

For your information (J

See remarks below

FRON Jim Purcell tw oll ae 3-7-75 -

REMARKS ’

 
 
 

 

 

Mr. Hoobler:

, Wi1l you please provide the requested

' information indicated by Mr. Scantieburg's
memo of February 24 pertaining to the FBI.
Item "8" which refers to the FBI Internal

: Security Division should be interpreted

ye as the FBI's Intelligence Division.

 

nr: I would appreciate having this information,
eee tt if possible, by close of business, today.

fr pee ”

rong cones
gamma

e Eee eee BO Fa

 

   

we
: One FoR 4
FEV LUG Te
C2-/1CBIS
ENCLOSURE
. ' . wh
Docld:32989530 Page 7 wees beat
Po ovaries , : , , Loge

gr:

 

‘Assistant Attorney General for Administration: March 7, 107

 

  

Usk/ Nicholas P. Callahan oO .
yb Associate Dixeotor, FB Sewslidy IS ,
Voy (GAVERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) AND

aE OFFICE DIXMANAGEMENT AND BUDGET (OMB)
TIVITIE

CONGESSISEYINGECLIGENCE ACTIVITIES X:
ares cacee ledinicemiceleniatahiadatd bebemeiiciadal . .
No Carergtern tiodsn 197 7.. \

- On the afternoon of March 7, 1975, Mr. James F. Hoobler, "5
Director, Management Programs and Budget Staff, furnished a copy of a ie
memorandum fvom GAO to the Deputy Director of the OMB which requested NS ,
information conzerning appropriations, oxtlays and legislative authority XN
for euch appropriations and exponditures, !

_. With regard fo the FBI's Intelligence Division, a response NS
was requested concerning the amounts af budget authority for fiscal years =
1974 and 1875 and actaal outlays for fiscal year 1974; an indication of where 3°
in thé Federal budget these amounts or suy portion of them appear; any ry
language in the badget wiich explains or incicates the purpose or pirpoaes 3
for whizh sich smounts will be spent; and the legislative authority for each,
of the listed appropriations and exyepsitarcs. . aa
cae Cee oe ee om Chal i wees

The FG does not receive budget authority or account for
budget ostlays specifically for internal sev rity or intelligence activities or
for eny organizational comyencat handling sich reatiers, The FBI's budgot
request for funds to hundie internal seounity or intelligence matters cis’ sot
fcrth outer the budget - activity “fseulty and Criminal Tnvestisntions."
Based eu manemyer wilicction sayvoys whish have been conducted, it is
estates that asprozimntely 25 porcent of the FBI's revozrees go to syprort

_ attivities under the sarrevision of the Intelligence Divicion. It is estimated,
therefore, that in the fiseal year 1874 the Pul's bacget auhovity contaluod .

; _. fans emounticg to some $91 nvliteu and that it had ostlays-of about 933 million -
asses Din AU BONERS Th2z9 retvides, The ares contmined In the FDOI's budget authority £
oe i meariow the acai yoor19%6 is atinated to be $162 milion, —_ py

renee) Sony ® .
prenedan The purroese for whieh thene finds are em ivied ave sol kth
— in Jostifiertion a a Endegst estimates cubcitved to the Conti oF.

mae C2-//L39S-

  

  
 

Gon. Inv. 2.
¢

: ses Mi
OSE WM

  

 

Invell See designated and note on page two.... ..
. ter _— : . <7 7 wt
| ee EN JMS We : a
S a ee eet eg ™ Rott va! “ MAY 1-875 ~ Fe)
AOTBEsaR pighPy'°S a a
Assistant Attorney General for Administration

In the FBI's material for fiscal years 1974 and 1975 these rarposes are

set forth under the section "Objective end they are captioned "Domestic
Intelligence" and "Coordination and Dissemination of Security Data." ,
Additional data is furnished in each of those years under the section "Status
of Base Program" and is captioned "Internal Security Operations."

. The legislative authority for the appropriation and expenditares
for the fiscal year 1974 is contained in the Departments of State, Justice, .
i Commerce, and The Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 1974
ia (Public Law 93-162). The legislative authority for fiscal year 1975 is
m contained in the Appropriation Act for the same agencies (Public Law 93-433). .

t . ot

1 -Mr. James F.-Hoobler, Director
Management Programs and Budget Stati

 

‘. 41 = Mr, Wannall - Enclosure
1-Mr, Mintz - Enclosure
1 - Mr. Moore - Enclosure

 

a NOTE: The attached inquiry from GAO is being coordinated by the OMB. It
: was received by us from the Department at 1:14 p.m., 3/7/75, with a request
that the information be furnished by the close of business the same date. ,

_ HW 55073 DoclId:32989530 Page.6
re .
 

     
   
  
  
 
   
  
  

4, OPTIONAL ZQRMNO. 10 p 5010-106
* MAY 1962 EDITION
GSAYGEN, REG. NO. 27

« UNITED STATES GOWPRNMENT f 4

- 3 sst. Dirt
Memorandum val =r. chinanan "et ail
Wannall CONF re: 3/10/75 Ext. , Sree

Files & Com.
Gen. Inv.

1 - Each Assistant Direc tote
FROM : W. Onli Cre gasses rEv0: FIOW CONTATNED roan Set
SEAEIN Ps ectagsirrep EXCEPE 1 - Mr. Cregar wey ee
WHERE SHOU OTHERET a ee
sumjecr: SENSTUDY 75 pertussis oy CB NG aaa ae a (a

     
  

 

: Mr. W. R.

 

 

Koon Rm,

Director Sec’

cng ae

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting
of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review of
the Intelligence Community, (hereafter referred to as the
Group), held on 3/7/75.

The Group is chaired by Mr. John Clarke, Associate wy
Deputy to the Director of Central Intelligence, and is made fN
up of representatives of agencies and departments having PY
membership on the United States Intelligence Board (USIB). ; t
Its purpose is to serve as a coordinating mechanism for future a
testimony before various Congressional committees... :

At the meeting of the Group on 3/7/75 the following o
items were discussed: nae

Congressman Robert McClory has been designated as

the minority leader of the House Select Committee. Copies of :
the annexes prepared by various members“of the Intelligence
Community have been delivered to both the majority and minority TN ny
leader of the House Select Committee. Congressman McClory. is “ONG
very security conscious, is concerned that sensitive relation- ws
Ships are not inadvertently disclosed during forthcoming hearings mS
rand according to Mr. John Clarke appears to have no questions ~
egarding FBI authority to engage in domestic surveillances. 4
CIA has prepared a draft letter to Senator Church releasing aa
CIA employees from any obligations imposed upon them by CIA's LU
Secrecy Agreement (draft copy furnished the Legal Counsel ;
Division). Prior to releasing the letter to Senator Church, a.
CIA is having it reviewed by: ‘the} ‘White House to determine if 3
they have any objections to it 7 ae Ld ser pe -5 oO :
f CIA anticipates that staff employees of tte Senieeme
f Select Committee (SSO), will have. dixect access to CIA buildings vg
but will not have direct access to 'GIA files or CIA p&rshmet .1975 33
Arrangements for the staff of the SSC to interview CIA personnel i
will be made through Mr. John Clarke.

    
 
  

’ Ot eon,

530% | .
WoCebe | oe
(17) ,» 4 oo Actin CONTINUED - OVER

 

fh . py . a. 1 :
& A 197 Ar Ger o ects . p yt ert. is :
Meo ark 11 075" conten: § agi

4
ne 56073 Docld:32989530 Page 2 i

 
 

 

 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy djssas on Records Collection dct of 1992 (44
sc 2107 Note Case: NW 55073 Date 1

 

HW 55073 DocId:32989530 Page 1
a a ar ee .

 
 

Hemorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE: ENSTUDY 7 CO N Fl re
SP’

    

Mr. James Wilderotter, Associate Deputy Attorney
General, and Mr, John Warner, General Counsel, CIA, will
have a meeting with the Counsel of the SSC on Tuesday,
3/11/75, to work out precise wording for a Secrecy Agreement
that all members of the SSC staff have agreed to sign.

On 3/10/75 the staff of the SSC will convene to
develop a list of requirements that they expect to levy on
all agencies making up the Intelligence Community. Hopefully
Mr. Clarke will have some information on these requirements
prior to the time they are levied on the individual agencies.

 

As a result of Mr. Colby's appearance before the
House Government Information in Individual Rights Subcommittee,
Government Operations Committee, 3/5/75, CIA is getting many,
many, calls from Senators and Congressmen asking how they can
find out whether CIA has a file on them and what its contents
are, Mr. Clarke noted that members of the Group should
anticipate receiving similar calls from Congressmen. 2&-(W))

Mr. Hank Knocke, who heads up the CIA task force
responsive to the Rockefeller Commission, advised that staff
members of the Rockefeller Commission have been issued CIA

. \badges, occupy CIA office space, and have authority to

mm \personally contact any CIA employee without clearing such
jcontact with CIA officials. In addition, the Rockefeller
Commission staff employees have been granted access to CIA
files. After reviewing these files, if the staff decides to
make certain portions of the files a matter of official
Commission business, CIA has a right to excise the names of
any sensitive sources, In the event information contained in
these files originates with another Agency of the Government
CIA has insisted and the staff concurs that the originating
Agency must be consulted before such information can be
released to the staft. X(y

hat both Mr. Kelley and Mr. Colby will receive in the mail
shortly a request from the Commission to prepare a joint

Mr. Knocke also advised that it is his understanding
t
- ifs SRC the activities of foreign intelligence officials

in the U. 8S.

‘

COAR ae. CONTINUED - OVER

 

 

553 Docld: 32969530 Page 3
 

Memorandum for Mr. Wannall
RE: SENSTUDY 75

| CONFIDENTIAL.

| CIA as well as the rest of the Intelligence

 

Community is concerned over requests received Morton
Halperin under the Freedom of Information Act. Treasury,
National Security Council, Defense Intelligence Agency,
CIA,. State Department and the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB), have received requests from Halperin.
According to Mr. Clarke, a meeting will be convened by the
i interested parties in an effort to coordinate
ir. Colby, in his role as the Director of
Central Intelligence, is very concerned that in responding
‘to Halperin's requests one Agency does not deny providing
information to Halperin that another Agency expects to give
Halperin, To date the Bureau has not received a request
; from Halperin under the Freedom of Information set KO)

: ACTION:

 
 
 
 
  
 
 

For informatim and record purposes.

 

HWY 55073 DocId: 32989530 Page 4

 
