pee secner a

 

U. S, SEYATE SELECT COMMITTEE OW INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITING (SSC)

Other prograns involving compilation of background
data and maintenance of Lists and/or indices have beon formu-
lated ond-maintained by the Bureau since 1960. These programs
have been designed to sorve as investigative aids to facilitate
the conduct of vaxrioud investigations conducted by this Bureau.
Such programs are boing identified separately in response to
inguiry contained in S&C letter Nay 14, 1975, Appendix B,

Part I, Item Ib.

Appondiz B, Part i421, Item numbor 16 of referenced
appendices requests SSC Staff access to the above-mentioned
indices. As noted above, these ligts and indices currontly
maintained by this Bureau contain only the names and background
information which identifies individuals Listed thereon. For
reasons of privacy, such lists are not being made available
to SSO members. En liou of actual aceess to those indices,
however, a representative number of items relating to the
ADEXK will be made available for review at FRING to SSC Start
Mouberg, which items will have pertinent identifying data

-oxelsed, but which wlll exhibit in a ceneral manner the

format of these indices. Being made availabic for review

ia a copy of the ADEX cards representing cach of the types

of activity and categories contained on the ADEX, and a copy

of the first page only of cach of the separate sections comprising
the computer printout sheet regarding ADEX natters. :

 

Also being nade availabic Por review are computor
statistics reflecting by category a Listing of individuals on
tho ADEX in each field office, ‘Those statistics, from 1960 to
the present, havo been compiled and printed on = monthiy basis.
For purposes of brevity aud at the same time be responsive to
SSC vaguest, copies of the printouts for January of each yenr
from 19CO to 1075, except 1976 and 1974, which are unavailabic,
as well as copies for the printout of cach month in 19765, will
bo included in items being made available for review, Copics
of the December, 19GD, nnd february, 1974, printouts have been
included to replace the above exceptions,

In response to Item number 17 and per the instructions
of K. William O'Connor of the Department to BA Paul ¥, Daly of
the FBE on dune 3, 1975, which ingtruetions were reiternted on
dune 4, 1975, by SSC State Member Mark Gitenstein, memoranda
and other material which were requested in the SSC request of
Moy 14, 1975, pertaining te the above-mentioned indices, are
available for review at FBIHQ by appropriate personnel of the
SSC Staf£. In view of privacy considerations as noted in prior
memoranda from the SSC, information which wouid tend to disclose
the identities of individuals contained on the various indices
mentioned above has been excised,

-~Fu

‘TOP SECRET

 

bh HW 55099 DocId:32989621 Page 9

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

ow we some

U. &, SENATE GELECT COMIITTEE OF fremu.rensen LCTIVITIES (SSC)

and a danger to the governuent of the BLR., a3 well as those
individuals who through their activities or statements indi+~
ested proconmunist affiliations or sympathies, An index card
was prepared on cach individual included on the List, which

ecard included pertinent background information, such as nance,
alias, date and place of birth, residence and employment
addresses, ¢- seription, photograph, and subversive organizational
nffiliation,

Hawes being recommended for inclusion in this List
were submitted to FRING, and those individuals eventually
included on this list were done so only after careful evaluation
mad approval by a high Bureau official. A copy of this list
yas maintained both at FRING and by Bureau Agents in Santo Domingo.

In Novenbor, 1966, our mission in the D.R, was changed
from an operational one to that of a strategic listening post
for intelligence, Since our efforts were directed toward .
gathering intellipence concerning the overall Dominican
situation rather thon the identification of individual subvorsives,
the DI was reduced to include the tabulation of only key figures
who were playing a pyine role in the Dominican subversive
noverient, With the ensuing stabilization of the Dominican
situation, FRY stafz in the Dominieen Republic was recuced
ond effeetive May 23, 1965, the DE wes discontinued,

The complete PI for the ported 1960 to the present

ig not votrievable, The antonmatie data processing printout
containing the identities of those individuats on the DI

as of May 24, 1968, is available; however, due to privacy
considerations, this printout is not being made availabic,.
Zt is noted that as of Novertber 8, 1966, there were a total
of 9606 individuals on the DE, of which 250 were caterorized
as key firures. On September 26, 1967, there were 331 key
ficures, on May 17, 1968, there were 305 key finures, and
upon discontinuance «2 the DI on May 23, 1968, there were
356 key Zigures,

In addition, the Bureau maintains a2 Communist<bioc
Information Collation "system (COBICS}. COBICS is an autonated
syatem containing biographical data concerning communist-bloc
officiais assigned to diplomatic and guasidiplomatie establich-
ments in the U. S, Inasmuch as this system contains only
information which vould tend te identify those individuals

whose background is uaintained in this system, computer
printouts are not boing furnished,

~~ 6

TOR SECRET

HW_55099 =DocId:32989621 Page 10 4

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SECRET
. OLORE .
U. 8, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITEES (8SC)

Specific detalis of the criteria and operational
aspeets of the SX end ADEX are located in pertinent memoranda
which will be made availiable for review by SSC Staff Menbers.
The ADEX is printed on IBM cards at FBEHQ and two copies of
the card vegardine each individual included thereon are sent
to the Ticid ofgicc covering the territory where the individusi
resides, An alphabetical breakdown of names on the ADEX is
naintained at FBIHO and the cards contain pertinent background
information, file numbers, and type of activity in which the
individual is engaged. Im the field, the ADEX ig maintained
in three sections; namely, 1) a complete alphabetical listing
of individuals currently on the ADEX rosiding within the
territory covered by the field office; 2) a geographical
section, breaking down by area where the individual resides
within the field office territory; and 3) an unavailable
section which iucludes subjects out of the country, subjects
inprisoned, and subjects whose whereahouts are unknown, At
the ficid office, descriptive data and a photograph, when
available, are added on the back of the geographical cards,

As of June G, 1975, the number of individuals
maintained on the ADEX was 1,359,

 

fs) In addition to the ahove-nentioned indices, the
FBI also maintained a Dominican Ind~ (DPI), details con-
cerning which are set forth below:

When the Dominican rovolution crupted on April 24,
1965, our Government had practically no verified intelligence
data concerning Dominican Republic (0.R.} subversives,
Intelligence agencies having responsibilitics abroad
produced only 77 names of weli~known communists, whereas -.
| literally thousands of communists and other Jeftists brought
about the eritical situation by taking advantage of an attempted
coup, On May 19, 1965, President Johnson ordered the FBI
into the DR, and subsequently we proceeded to compile
information on persons who covld be expected to constitute
a threat agninst ostablished authority in future emergencies,

 

in Hovembery, 1965, we implemented the DI, which
consisted of a List of individmnic vrasiding in the Gh, whose
subversive revolutionary activities indicated they were
potential threats to elected government, The DI was comprised
of those individuals who had been afflliated with the Comuunist
Party aad sinilar communist groups determincd to bo subversive

om oe

Nae ea) pre

by

 

ror

~ HW_55099 Docld:32989621 Page 8

 

 

 

 

 
8 esan®

on

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (ssc)

As a result of the international situatien in 1948,
a Communist Index was established, as distinguished from the
gI, and this index was comprised of a11 Communist Party
members and réported members of communist organizations.

“On September 23, 1950, the Internal Security Act
of 1950, became law and with it the passage of Title Il ‘
which concerned the Emergency Detention Act. This act
provided for the detention of individuals believed to be
dangerous to the internal security during times of emergency
and required communist organizations and their individual
members to register with the Attorney General within 30 days
‘after September’ 23, 1950, During 1951 a list of the individuals
Mae maintained on the SI was prepared and furnished to the
Department of Justice. During-1955 the Department advised
the FBI that neither manpower nor funds were available for the
Department to review SI cases and in the event of an emergency
the Attorney General would direct all persons named in the 8I
to be promptly apprehended. . :

; During 1960, the Reserve Index (RI) was established
and was comprised of those cards which. had. formerly been known
as the Communist Index, It was believed the Reserve Index was .
& more descriptive term and individuals named therein were oO
affiliated with various subversive organizations, including the
Communist Party. The RBI represented a group of individuals,
who, next to SI subjects, presented the greatest potential

_ threat to the internal security of this country in time of
“emergency. The RE was discontinved along with the SEF upon .
repeal of the Emergency Detention Act during September, 1973,

(f) Buring September, 1971, the Attorney General was —
requested te advise whether repeal of the EDA limited the
authority of the FBI to conduct security investigations or
maintain an administrative index of security subjects. The
Attorney General advised during October, 1971, that the
FBI's investigative authority remained unaffected and the FBI
was not prohibited from maintaining an index of security
subjects. As a result in November, 1971, an Administrative
Index (ADEX) was established which included the names of
those individuals on the former SI in September, 1971. Buring
1972 the operation of the ADEX was evaluated and revised to

_ dnelude only those individuals who posed a realistic, direct
and current danger to the national security.

whe

“TPR SECRET

Gu 55099 Docld:32989621 Page 7 ~
 

 

U.S, SUUARE SHLECT COLLIZTYND OF MMOLEIGRICH ACTIVITILS (SSC)

recoived from investigations and assistance to this Comission,
fo oisict this Commission, this Eurcau initiated the tabbico
Qouser Index (iB1) on Aupust 4, 1067, by SAC Letter G7~47,

ho ERI was maintained at FBI Headquarters CFDIEQ} and contained
nanos, identifying dota and pertinent background infornation
on individuals identizicd as having demonstrated 2 propensity
for fonenting vacial discord. Only individuals of national
prominonce, and, in perticular, those whe travelod cxtensivaly ;
yiore to bo included on tho list. fBIHQ approved the placing
of each nome on the List, On Novenber 85, 1867, the RRL wed
expanded to include aritators who attracted attention locally
ac woll as nationally,

On Merch 21, 1968, PRE ficld offices were adviscd
the RRI was venaued the Agitator Indox €AI} as it more
appropriately deseribed the activities of those ineluded on
the list.- Buring 1070, Burenu field offices were advised to
delote from the AI individuais whose nancsalso appearcd on
the Security Ende:.

On April 21, 1971, the AI was discontinued as it had
served its purpose and the aetivities of many individuals
formerly desipneted as amitators hnd changed. The Field wag
advised by SAC Letter 71-17, dated April 27, 1971, that the
AX was boing discontinued, All indices pertaining to theo AT
heave boon dostiroyed, .

{c) Whe Boy Activigt procraa ves instituted in 1065 in
connection with tha investiration of individuals who were
oxtronely active ond vocal in their statenents denouncing
the U. 8. and eallins for civil disokadience and other fornd
of unlewful and @icruptive acts, Such individuals wre designated
as Loy Activista, and specific cuidelines wore set forth for
continucd and extensive investigations of then, In April,
19G0, an albu containing portincnt backcround ingermation
ond photorvaphs of ali Ney Activists was furnished to 11
BDI field offices and Lecal Attneches, os an investigative
oid, In February, 1975, the Key Activist progran was dis~
contipucd, At no time did the number of individuald listed
in the album nunber over 76,

{d) Tho term “Action Groups" was reforred to in 2
communicrtion fron FBEEQ to the Special Agent in Charge at
ftlanta, Georgin, and other offices involved in bu Hive
Elan investigations on Septombor 2, 1904, This torn
voterred to groups of individuals in Ku Kiux Elan organizations
who were identified through investigation as resorting to violeneco

~ 2 =

T¢P SECRET

7 HW 55099 DocId:32989621 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
   

UB. 8, SENATE SELUOT COMMNETTUR ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (850)

ov strong arm tactics to achieve thoir chjectives. As these
groups of individuals were identified, investigations were
initinted on an individual basis. There has been no List
or indices maintained by this Bureau on “Action Groups" as
such,

(e} The Security Index {SI) of the FBI predates passage
of the Internal Security Act of 1950, which legislation
contitined the Emergency Detention Ack {DA}, A Presidential
Directive dated September 6, 1939, provided that the FEI
take charge of investigations in matters relating to espionage,
sahotage, subversive activities and violation of the neutrality
veguintions, Following this Directive, a "Suspect List” was
complicd at FRIRQ in November, 1035, as an internal aduinistrative
aid. Individuais included on this list consisted of primarily
two large factions, those having Nazi sympathies and those having
communist sympathies, and whose liberty during time of a national
evisis would constitute a menance to the public peace and internal
Hccurity of the U. 8. This List was duplicated on 5 % & cards
and maintained at PBIIQ and appropriate field offices, During
1940 the list of individuals which had been compiled became
hewn as the "Custodial Detention List.” To supplement .
information available at FBIHQ, the field was instructed to
submit names of individuals who should be considered for the
Custodial Detention List with data justifying their boing placed
on thig list. Following extensive efforts by the FBI to obtaia
policy regording this List, the Office of the Attorney General
on Anvil 21, 1941, provided a memorandum outlining the procedures
for the FBY to follow in handling the list, The Attorney
General requested this list be subdivided into those
individuals to be arrested immediately on declaration of
war; individuals recommended for release on bond, parole,
or on whom travel restriction be imposed; and those strongly
suspected and on whom surveillance should be continued,

The cards maintained on these individuals were
initially referred to as "Internal Security Cards; however,
this was later changed to Security Index cards, Following
Worid War Ti, ali SE cards were cancelled at the FBI with
the exception of those relating to communists, Russians,
ond individuals whose nationalistic tendencies resulted .
from ideological or organizational affiliations with Marxist
groups.

 

_-HW 55099 Docld:32989621 Page 6

 

 

 

 
 

 

fo , ~ : i , s
| , wwe.) A, Mintz 4
(1 + Me. J. B. Hotis)
Mr. W. R. Wannall

q The“Attorney General duly 18, 1999 (
\

bo
roa

 
  
 

 

-~
i

ND)
Me. W. 0, Cregar \

Diréctor, FBI Mr. K. A, Mendenhall ~ is

 

|

| 1- |
+ 7 SM
/ UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT. COMMITTER CN
| ON INTELLIGENCE-ACTIVITIES (SSC) Sh |
= ie

Reference is made to 2 letter from the ssc dated 9X

|

May 14, 1975, with attached appendices, requesting certain =\~
documents and other information from the FBI. be ON

| ae

[ attached for your approval and forwarding to .SSC™ a

{

is an original of a memorandum which responds to two of theQ
requests centained in above SSC letter. ae

~
A copy of the memorandum is being furnished for 8 ™“
your records. 8

; it should be noted decuments which will be made i
available for review to SSC personnel at FRIHQ pursuant to -
this request set forth information pertaining to the Department's
Portfolio concerning the Program for Apprehension and Detention
cf Persons Considered Potentially Dangerous to the National
Defense and Public Safety of the United States, and also to .
Presidential Emergency Action Documents. These documents ~
are classified up to and including "Top Secret," with original =~
“Glassifying authority stemming from the Department, (The decision
as to whether or not documents relating to above cite'd Programs |
should be declassified at thig time is being left to the
Department,

{ Also enclosed for your review and consideration are —
28 Department communications which were furnished this Bureau
over a period of years, which documents are a vart of the
naterial being made available for review by SSC personne? in

Agsoc. Dir. —__

Dem a0 wi 6Bm 1.16395 De Se wy a7. Foc 419

 

 

 

 

i Admin, Ae fs ae
1 Comp yen = 100-356062 Me too 8 8 ne
(Ext. Affairs =i} 100-398030 gir lOfe-00.8

Files & ‘Com. nM 3 JUL 30 1975 (?
KAM: ekw - rat, se i ae ores
ap. 4/ i ry ‘ oars ee >, -

 

Gen. Inv.
Ident.

 

 

Inspection —___

 

 

 

7 Usinioy be ENGL Osu . , 4
| Plan. & Eval. — d Oe iy ye at
Traini : ga “eat bates A a
i" i te tlhye—~
1 Legal Coun, }A
} Telephone Rm. _. A _ / ; 0
4 Diggetor Sec'y MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT an R C& . UPO 954-546 }
, 8403 1 075 NOES, ONE /
; eo

   

HW 55099 DocId:32989621 Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

a
Serial Scope:

 

 

| 429 only fat | of 2 |

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

{
{

wo gee

  
   
   
   

The Atterney General

,
“ :
~

response to their request. Approval by you oF enclosed purcan
menorandun for trancmigsion to the SSC will signivy that you
interpose no objection to xbove Department communicationg Acint
roviewed by SSC personnel,

Enclosures (30,

1 ~ tha Doputy Attorney Genoral
Attention: K, William O'Conner
‘ Syecial Counsel Zor
inteliigenca Coordination
 

 

| é g
” ‘ . q ;
a .
‘ .

« ereneyl ‘2-Mr. J. A, Mintz

(i - Mr, J, B. Hotis)
1 Mr, W. R. Wannail
1~ Mr. W. 0. Cregar
GQeELGBOS. duly 17, 1975
i - Me. K. A. Mendenhall
_ UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTER
; 6 STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH RESPECT YO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: ¥URTHER DOCUMENTS PERTAINING 'TO
/0/6to THE FBI AND DEPARTWENT OF JUSTICE

‘chacnieen BY 642. VIM! reas
NECLAGSIPY ON: POR Lael

Reference is made to S8c letter, with attached
appendices, dated May 14, 1975, to the Attorney General,
voquesting certain documents and other information from the

iT.

  
 

Appendix B, Part I£i, Item number 16 of referenced
appendices, requests this Buread to provide SSC Staff access
‘to the foliowing indices for the period 1900 to the present:

  
 

a

 

”. Agitator Index

b. Rabble Rouser Index -~

«, Key Activist list -- os

ad, List of “Action Groups" coat

e, Beourity Index

£. Administrative Index ~

g. Ail similar indices, lists or computer
printouts

Appendix B, Part III, Item number 17 requests ali
memoranda and other mitovials concerning the origin, inpie~
nentation, operation or termination of any of the above indices.

 

ES¥ 7 betye,

an soe

ERE GI a iebs

   

in response to abeve, the following is set forth

aarae 7 tor background in the sane order as the request:

Dep. AD Adm. _

Ana Ab lowe — (a-by On duly 29, 1967, Executive Order 11365. establishing
Admin, ___. *HE National Advisory Commission on Civil Disozmders was issued,

Come. Sst, — end the FRI was given responsibility to provide information
xt. fairs

Files & Com ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO ATTORNEY GENERAL *

Gen. Inv. —___.

 

 

 

      

  

 

 

lent. KAM: ekw

wep (11) Av) Tk SERDET SEE NOTE PAGE EIGHT

cee” —— ClasoWe by £2 gh ATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION mS ° :
ses nv ExempyXro CDS, Catogong 2 7 Unauthorized Disclosure eo
nes —— Date t Dddacvilicativnfndefiss Subject to Criminal Sanctions 4 aan
Duece sey) MAILROOME) TELETYPE OMT 7) ENCLOSURE b Pepin AIST, Pons 904058

HW 55099 Docld:32969621 Page 4
ha

 

 
