 

Page 84, We do not take exception with the statement that
the Committee believes "that Roselli fabricated the retaliation
theory." If we note it at all it may disappear from the draft, and it
reinforces our contentions that CIA did not.report the Castro plots
because no one perceived the retaliation theory. Tf Roselli fabricated
the concept it was some time in late 1966 or the first half of 1967.

Page 92. Suggest that we request that HSCA relate the designation of
"2" £or Victor Spinosa Hernandez, rather than using his full name.

Page 93. ‘Top paragraph. We cannot contribute positively to the
question of a real link between the syndicate and "a", However, the SSC
final report, Book V, at pages 78, 79, and 105 seems to make it clear
that what "A" knew about AMLASH post-dated the 1963 period.

c.

~

 

 

   

HW 53199) DoclId:32347934 Page 8
 

 

Page 68-71. I recall the introduction to the HSCA draft report

that it would not impugn the reputation of innocent by-standers.

The identities of Dan Rowan and Phyllis NicGuire fall into this

category. ‘the simple and correct story is that Giancana . aa

felt that he was being cuckolded by Rowan and tcok advantage,

in his jealousy, of his new and novel relationship with CIA.

O'Connell should not have gone along with him, but he did,

unfortunately. With the advantage of 20-20 hindsight it may . ‘

look easy today to have.termed it aside then. Remember, when durmet

O'Connell first told the Story in some detail (with some error ;

in dates), inside the Agency for the record (1967), he told it in just

those terms. He had no reason then to conceal his concern, and pee»
i me - ‘Little speculation really ‘doesn't alter the basic facts of that on
Cw simple story. There really was no concern at that time about

Giancana meetin : ; ,

leaky. . Co, . .
- Suggest we move all. references that identify Rowan and .
McGuire and clean up the presentation to fit the facts.

Page 74. Second line TFR for CIA.

Page 76. A little confusion in. the sequence of events between
phase I and phase IT. When the first access to Castro failed, and
a viable new one did not Gevelop, Roselli.went to the Cuban exile
leader. ‘That contact and the apparent uncertainties that. it :
offered is what was terminated at the end of phase I. That is where
it started when it was reactivated in April 1962 for phase II.

 

There are many operations in the Clandestine world in which the
instruments of action. are not known in @etail ‘to the case officer.
In. the phase II operation, Roselli served as cut-out between CIA.

_ and the Cuban exile leader, in a sense, ran his ow net and did not
_ reveal the identities of his people or any specific plans. In the
absence of direct access to the target his operatives have to bh

go in and develop a way in which to carry out their mission.
Had it succeeded, the possibility which have been such to meet
_and reconstruct after the fact; the absence of ultimate action
it may seem uncertain to some individuals unfamiliar.with

the tenduous nature of some plans of action. The real question,
in my mind, is whether the Cuban exile leader really dispatched
“teams” with the mission they were supposed to have.

.Page 77. It may seem extraordinary to the investigators that
CIA operated as they did. First, as mentioned above, there are a
nuber o£ uncertainties in the world of clandestine operations.
In this particular case, dealing with representatives of the under-
world, CIA therefore, labors under certain practical jnhibitions about
how fac it could press individuals using their resources to carry
out a mutual objective. There doubtless are many instances in which
individuals throughout the chain are unknown to CIA. .

5

HW 53199) DoclId:32347934 Page 7

 
 

Page 24, Second paragraph, ninth line... Substitute TFR for CIA.

The HSCA draft is imprecise in this treatment. ‘The task force
report gave a rather detailed recitation of what ANLASH was told
as to the basis for its view, and why Book V of the SSC report with
AMLASH's faction was uncertain the Task Force report made it clear that
his reaction as to what he was told was exactly the same as the CIA record
of what he was told. We should make this point.

Page 26. Fourth Line in the quotation at the top of the page.
Substitute the word "reinforce" for the word "re~inform”.

Page 32. “¥hile the names of O'Connell and Orta appear in other pages
in the draft, they appear here and should be deleted.

Page 34.° Remove the "s" from the CIA Inspector General Reports. -.

Page 35. ‘The record is clearly documented in detail as to what
the AMLASH operation was. The authors may not wish to choose
between the record and what the SSC has said about it (erroneously)
and what Langosch has said about it. I propose that we make this
followed by. the statement below: .

As you have been ‘advised, Langosch was not involved in or
responsible for the AMLASH operation, being peripherally
aware of its existence. His views of AMLASH/1's security is a
very different question than the substance of the operation.

I must note that his testimony before HSCA seems to have
undergone material evolution since he testified before the
Church Committee (SSC) in 1975. One must wonder to what
extent the SSC report has influenced his present views. In
any event, when he testified before SSC he was most uncertain
about the time-frame of the AMLASH operation (critical to any
evaluation of it in terms relevant to your charter), as well
as to specific facts including how to characterize it (see
page 75 Book V, SSC Final Report). His most recent testimony
may serve the purpose of raising questions for consideration
in your report, but one would think that soie consideration
would be given his reliability as a witness (the fact that he
_was not informed at the time, that what he now says is contrary
‘to the well documented status of the operation, and the fact
hat he ncw speaks differently than he did earlier).

Page 36. Instead of describing Poliack as "E£rom the CIA” he |
should be referred to as “a former CIA employee”.

Page 37. First Line. the word object" should be "objective."

 

Doclda: 32347934 Page 5
   

Page 37. Second line. ‘The word "Cuba" should be "AALASH/1" .

Page 41.! I£ they don't know how to spell "Bundy" I an not inclined
to help them.

Page 45. ! the draft's assertion that o'Connell and Maheu are
lying about identification of the syndicate peole with whom they were
Gealing; this is unsupported by the evidence.

the record is somewhat longer than the association of the HSCA
investigators with it, and the only thing they add to it is this
unfounded. subjective judgment. I was one of the two CIA officers who
debriefed O'Connell on his part in the operation, when another inspector
and I did the original 1967 IG report on assassinations. At that time
O'Connell was forthright and did not dissemble, although he experienced
difficulty in recalling some details. . .

At the time of the 1967 interviews, O'Connell related the discovery
of the actual identity of the persons with whom they were dealing
primarily as an interesting development in the unfolding events of
the operation. He related his role in a factual manner; he had been
_ given an assignment and carried it out. He related it without. explanation
_ or apology. If he was presssed by HSCA investigators he may have been aw
: asked questions that posed the various considerations in terms of .
i b uv rationale, etc., that that was not his presentation when he was
speaking inside the Agency in 1967 —- then under strict terms of
security ~~ when he originally recorded himself on the matter. He
is not a philosopher, and I @oubt that he. would have yolunteered
much on this score. Quite frankly, my impression from 1967 (and I
interviewed him again in 1975) was that he was impressed by the
high-level attention the syndicate gave the matter, rather than being :
embarassed by it. It is more accurate to see him viewing it as a sign
of the serious attention given by the syndicate, possibly reinforcing
the chances of achieving the objective. O’Connell knew from the’
beginning that he was dealing with the syndicate, and that there had
to be high-level approval was a foregone conclusion. No real thought
had been given as to what sort of person would be assigned to the job,
and whomever it was there was little that could be done about it if
the operation was to proceed. The interpretation of o'Comelli's
thought processes are far fetched. ;

 

Page 48. O'Connell's name appears several times in the preceding
pages but it appears here with Ed. we might suggest that the word
"they" be substituted. All the other:places it can be "operational
support chief". ces

   

 

: a 53199 Docld:32347934 Page 6
HW 53199) DoclId:32347934 Page 2?

 

OLC 79-0113/21
14 March 1979

HIEMORANDUM FOR: Jack Sullivan, OS
Dick Rininger, OGC
William Sturbitts, LA/DDO
Russ Holmes

FROM : S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA

SUBJECT : Draft HSCA Report

1. It is requested that you review the attached comments cn
the HSCA draft about "The Evolution and Implications of the CIA~
Sponsored Assassination Conspiracies" and be prepared to discuss
them at a meeting in my conference room at 10:00 a.m. Friday.

. 2. Practically all of the information in this draft has
appeared in one form or another in the Church Committee's
interiin assassination report and in Book V of its final
report.

3. You will note that I did not itemize every appearance
of the names of O'Connell, Orta, Varona, Or Cubala. I hope
this will not be necessary in our communication with the
Committee as-it would take pages just to list them.

. . a a ; }

A L Cit Bh pA Lb bi fe
/ ’ ss ft fher

.°S. D. Breckinridge e

Attachment

 

 

 
AGENCY
RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

cIA
104-10067-10224
JFK

80T01357A

 

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO
TITLE
DATE
PAGES

SUBJECTS

_ DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
COMMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D.,
SULLIVAN, JACK, OS, CIA
DRAFT HSCA REPORT.
03/14/1979

7

COMMENTS
HSCA REPORT
JFK ASSASSINATION

PAPER
CONFIDENTIAL

1B
RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC
05/25/04
JFK12

F4 20031216-10

Date: 12/15/04
Released under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992 (44 USC
Pio? Nore). Cases#:NW 53199
Pate: O6-O07-2017

OLC

- RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

25966

HW 53199) DoclId:32347934 Page 1

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10067-10224
 

Comments

I have read the draft report on the "CIA-Sponsored Assassination
Conspiracies." This is my preliminary reaction. :

Page 3. Insert the word "late" before the date 1960, sixth line
from the bottom. .

Page 3. Last sentence should read: "CTA records indicate that
“the operation was inactive from April 1961 until April 1962."

Page 4. Delete "James "Big Jin’ O'Connell" and replace with
the word "Chief" and where O'Connell's name appears throughout the
draft from thereon it should be replaced by "the Official Support
Chief." :

Page 4. The next to the last paragraph. The word "recruited"
should be replaced by the word "contacted". — :

Page 4. Last paragraph, third line from bottom. The word
"contends" should be replaced by the word “reporting”.

Page 5. Delete the name of Juan Orta where it appears at the
top of the page. Wherever his name appears thereafter in the
report it should be referred to as "the senior Cuban official".

Page 5. Varona should be described here and wherever it appears
as "the Cuban exile leader". Where it appears frequently this can
be detracted to a reference as "the exile leader". ;

Page 6. Change last sentence to commence as follows: "The
1967 IGR noted that...." I am inclined to not take issue with the
use of the word “admitted” in the second line of the last paragraph;
it is an argument word and we volunteered. it on our own as an ~
assertion not an admission. . ;

Page 7. End of the first complete paragraph. Substitute word
"operation" for the word "plots".

Page 8 Paragraph ending at top of the page, next to last Line.
Just who did what for whom is uncertain but I am not inclined to take
issue with the word “probably”. ‘ ~

 

HW 53199) DoclId:32347934 Page 3
 

Page 11. Fifth line from bottom, Insert word "unsuccessfully".
after "Harvey subsequently attempted...." se

Page 12. Twelfth line fron botton, Insert year "1967" before
the name of Ed Morgan.

Page 14. Second sentence should be rephrased as follows: "This
report detailed the accounts of various CIA plans and operations
against Castro...."

Page 15. OGC please check what we did about INS deportation
proceedings. . :

Page 16. Delete that portion of the last sentence of the first
paragraph that reads as follows: "...on-going plots against the’
revolutionary government in Cuba and its...." The main thrust of
the SSC report hed to do with plotting against Castro and this tends
to shift the emphasis to a broader range than the SSC report really

supports.

Page 17. Second sentence, first complete paragraph. While it is
correct to summarize the SSC report as stated, the SSC report is
incorrect, and we should so note. . : : : eet

; Page 17. Last paragraph. There was ro “ripple effect". Nobody
paid any attention to the SSC report after the first few days.

It was quite some time afterwards, on a time-available basis that
the CIA ask Force took up the problem. In any event, it was not
intended to "answer" the SSC report in the usual sense of the word
so much as it was intended to research the general problem. We did

not know what we would find.
- - fy

Page 18. The subparagraph (Ql), second line. The word "assiass ination"
should be put in quotation marks. : . a :

page 18. Fifth to the last line. "FR for IGR.
Page 19. Fifth line. “Operative” for "operation".
Page 21. Next to last line. TFR for IGR.

Page 23. Top paragraph. ‘fhe reason there was no contact with
RALASH for a year preceding from 1962 to 1963 was that he was in
Cuba. - ua, .

Page 23. Next to last line right in middle paragraph. CIA did not
say that any dispute was in the eyes o£ the SSC only. ; o
Page 24. Second paragraph, first Lines. Substitute "cablea" ee
for "called". . : . . on
HW 53199 Docld:32347934 Page 4

 

 
