; 2 :
Docld: 32205156 Page 5

SEGRET-SENSITIVE + 0s . woe PDs

  

 

 

‘Mr. Johnson reviewed his efforts to obtain from Ambassador
' Garrigues the Spanish price for a renewal, So far the Spanish :
Ambassador had spoken only in general terms, The first objec- | ‘

_ tive. is to pry out of the Spanish what it is they are asking for a base

agreernent renewal. When we know the Spanish terms, we will be
ina much better position to decide how to proceed with negotiations.

 

Mr. McGeorge Bundy” suggested, and Mr. Johnson agreed, that’ ,

when we know the Spanish terms, a negotiating guidance memorandum
: should. be prepared, This memorandum would be circulated to the
" group for any comments prior to being approved by ‘the President.

‘ ee co ne Bromley Smith

a

 

 

SECRET - SENSITIVE)

 
 

Docld:32205156 Page 2

 

 

 

 

‘SECRET - SENSITIVE

Summary Record of NSC Standing Group Meeting No. 9/63.
July 9, 1963'-- 5:00 PM

1, .Progress report on integrated action program toward Cuba -
Desmond Fitzgerald reviewed developments ‘and actions of the past

three weeks since the approval by the group of the integrated action
program for Cuba, He mentioned two events which are scheduled

‘for the 26th of July. He was reading from notes,

Mr. Harriman called attention to the relation of action in Cuba to
his mission to Moscow., He said he hoped to be out of Moscow by
the 25th or 26th of July. .He appeared anxious to avoid giving the
Russians an opportunity to raise with him our Cuban policy on the
basis of actions which had taken place during the time he was in

. Moscow.

It was agreed that the next meeting would be a discussion of the
State/USIA paper containing a draft statement of what we hoped 1 to
see develop in a post-Castro Cuba.

 

' There was a discussion as to how.to handle press inquiries about

developments in Cuba such as raids from outside Cuba and sabotage
actions within Cuba. It was agreed that we should flatly deny any -
U.S. Government involvement in any of these activities. Eurther

consideration is to be given to the suggestion that President Betancourt ..

take credit for certain actions as reprisals to sabotage actions which
have occurred in Venezuela, :

2. Report on Spain (copy of paper attached)

 

There was general agreement with the report on U.S. policy toward

‘Spain. However, doubt was expressed that the offer proposed in the

report would appear sufficiently attractive to the Spanish to cause
them to renew the base agreement,

There was general agreement that we must not let the Spanish think
we are eager to obtain the base renewal agreement. Mr, Johnson

said there may be a period of cliff hanging in the fall,, However, we.

SECRET - SENSITIVE

 

 

 
- ; JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ ;
RECORD NUMBER: — 177-10002-10025

RECORD SERIES: PAPERS OF SMITH, NSC STANDING GROUP MEETING, JFK, VOL. 1, BOX 24

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

=

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH
FROM: BROMLEY SMITH
TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 07/09/1963
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY RECORD OF NSC STANDING GROUP MEETING
CLASSIFICATION: #a6lassified
RESTRICTIONS: —1C
. CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : DOC. #26

v9.1 14
Docld:32205156 Page 1
 

“t, an :
“SECRET - SENSITIVE

“must not rush matters even though the present agreement expires
in September.

There were two views as to what waild have to be offered, in addition .
to our present offer, to induce the Spanish to renew the agreement.
_ Mr, William Bundy thought that we would have to offer the Spanish -
bilateral military consultation even if such consultation was merely
a facade comparable to that we engaged in in CENTO. Mr. Johnson _
thought that we would probably have to increase the amount of mili- : :
tary assistance we are prepared to give the Spanish. : ; : _

Secretary Dillon doubted that we could give more military assistance
to Spain than that contained in'the réport. He said there was strong
Congressional opposition to military assistance to Spain. In addition, : ‘
Congressmen were strongly opposed to giving assistance to countries
which are buying gold (Spain is one of the most consistent gold buyers
in the present market). Mr. Bell felt that we would have major
difficulty with Congress over the Spanish aid program. He recalled

- General Clay's opposition to the amount of our military assistance in’
Spain.

Mr. Nitze noted that the military félt that our bases in Spain were aoc. ©
major addition to our military posture. We should not try to convey :
: to the Spanish that the bases were valueless to us...Mr. McGeorge

Bundy responded that in a conversation with Secretary McNamara

earlier in the’ day, the Secretary had stated that as far as he was

concerned, we should tell the Spanish that we could do without the

bases. He asked if there was a difference of view within the Depart-
-ment of Defense. Mr. Nitze said there was not but that he did not

think we should mislead the Spanish to the extent of telling them that

our bas es in Spain were worthless to us,

There was a discus sion as to when we need to bring to a conclusion
the Spanish base negotiations. Mr. William Bundy said the first time
point was the decision whether or not to continue our ‘plan to build a
$6 million breakwater in Rota harbor. Without the breakwater,
anchorage in Rota would be difficult. The second time point was the
planned arrival date of the nuclear submarine tender. - Although we
could operate on a temporary agreerient extended month by month,

' it would be better for all concerned iftwe could reach agreement in
the early fall with the Spanish, _ .

.SECRET ~ SENSITIVE

  

Docld:32205156 Page:
 

SECRET - SENSITIVE

! .

Mr. Bell noted that the report under discussion did not include mention
‘of the ways Spain now benefits from the presence of our troops in Spain, '
He suggested that any document to be used as a background for the _
negotiations include a discussion of this aspect of the Spanish problem, :

' - He-felt that. the Spanish did obtain major benefits from us, including

' U.S. Government expenditures in Spain. asa result of our presence -
there.

The. Attorney General recalled that the Spanish Ambassador had told
him that all our problems with Spain would be resolved if the Presi-.

"dent would spend an hour with Franco. The discussion whith ensued

 

 
 

Docld: 32205156 ' Page. ‘4

revealed that the group did not favor the Président visiting Franco |

but. did approve of some device, such as a Presidential letter delivered

by a high ranking emissary which would help satisfy the Spanish desire
. for ‘recognition asa | first- class ally even though not a member of NATO,

: There was a discussion as to when the Presidential letter should be
delivered. The general view was that it should not be presented at
the crucial terminating point of our negotiations nor at the very beginning, |
‘put rather at a time which would not increase the Spanish ‘price for re-
- newal of the base agreement.

. Mr. ‘MeGeorge Bundy called attention to the various people the Spanish -
Ambassador had béen talking to and cautioned that everyone should be
alert to the Spanish effort to involve officials in several departments
‘and agencies | of the. Government. .

. Mr. “Johnson said he had ‘been assigned responsibility for negotiating
with Ambassador Garrigues. . ‘Ambassador Garrigues had presented
a letter stating. that the Spanish Government had named him as the
base agreement negotiator. However, a Spanish. military répresenta-.
tive, Munoz Grandes, had said that the Ambassador was charged with -
the political aspects of the agreement while he would negotiate the oe
military clauses of a renéwal’ agreement. .Mr, Johnson thought that vee -
the Ambassador may have been, given a time period, for example, a
three months, during which he would be operating with a free hand.
At the termination of this period, Franco might shift the locale of
the negotiations and possibly the negotiator if Garrigues had not by
then been able to carry out his promise to obtain an agreement highly -
advantageous to Spain.

SECRET - SENSITIVE |,

 

 

 

 
