 

isa sericus question about the possible significance of
QSENKO to penetration of the FDI and the bona fides of FBI
‘sources in terms of misinformation (disinformation) in
relation to both NOSENKO and other information. He is of
the opinion that a FBI source(s) probably came to the FBI
after his defection and perhaps after NOSENKO's contact if
not dispatch in 1964. He suggests the possibility there may
_be a false arrest and show trial of a FBI source in order to
further bolster NOSENKO's story. Although it has. not been
possible to discuss this aspect of the NOSENKO story with —
ANATOLE it seems clear that if we are to gain full measure
from ANATOLE it will be necessary for the FBI to approve
or conduct a briefing of ANATOLE appropriate to puting a
perspective on the FBI sources so he can assess what they
have said about NOSENKO and GOLITZYN. . 3
H.° The following are the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS which are to
‘form the basis for elicitation from NOSENKO. They are set
forth in the order discussed. , -
1. Misinformation in the Second Chief Directorate (sco)
(This is an ammediate topic for elicitation as set forth. separately)
2, Leadership of the KGB .
3. Leadership ef the First Chief Directorate CD)
4, Leadership of the SCD

5. SHELEPIN's 1959 Report (This topic will be discussed

 

HW 53216 DocId:324047468 Page 9
 

more thoroughly with ANATOLE before the question is raised
with NOSENKO again. ANATOLE was emphatic in stating that it
had been a mistake to raise the subject of the KGB policy and
1959 yveorganization with NOSENKO. He read the paper with
attachments but deferred comment except to note that NOSENKO
had said very little of significance. It was at this tine
- that ANATOLE first notod it was a mistake to permit NOSENK ,
to write memoranda. ANATOLE obviously considers this aspect :
of the NOSENKO case most important and a topic which requires -
his study particularly in view of the fact ho now has extracts :
from the GOLENIEWSKI letters which relate to the 1959 KGB
reorganization and disinformation, ANATOLE also did not recail.

the book so it will be necessary to make certain he has a

copy.)

*

(ANATOLE considers this a most important topic which requires
additional study and elicitation later after research will
permit us to assess NOSENKO's statements rapidly. ANATOLE»
reiterates his concern that it is exactly and specifically

in this area that NOSENKO's reassurance of no KGB successes
is most likely diversion. ANATOLE expressed his concern that
in January he may have commented too extensively and theoret-
ically about this problem, le now wants to re-examine this
problem and refocus everyone back more precisely to NOSENKO

and his story)

 

HW 53216 DoclId:32404748 Page 10
ANATOLE says this team approach will be necessary to implement
a fast moving interrogation, based on the script he will help
devise, which will not permit NOSENKO time to reflect or

think about his answers, The tactic will be to insist on

immediate and full answers and ANATOLE insists that once the

new elicitation phase begins NOSENKO not be permitted to

write any answers: He is not to be given any written assign-

ments: every response and reply is to be oral and transcribed
. and NOSENKO must be encouraged and permitted to respond fully:
he is not to be asked to confirm or deny any statement nor is
“he to be assisted in replying to any question with suggestions
or reminders.
_G. ANATOLE recognizes the problem of information from
BI sources and the release of this information to hin.- Heo
respects the FBI need to protect its sources and understands _
the FBI attitude even though he quite obviously disagrees. He
believes that .our failure to make relovant information available
to him is shortsighted and lessens both his effectiveness and. _
our ability to decipher the NOSENKO puzzle faster. ANATOLE
recalls that at the time NOSENKO defected in 1964 and there
was discussion with the FBI about the SASHA lead and related
matters he asked for FBI file and source information pertinent

to the problems, ANATOLE continues to believe there probably

 

HW 53216 DoclId:32404748 Page &
rae
oe ~ be

key items of diversion.
E. In reply to ANATOLE's question he was told that the

FBI continued to interview NOSENKO usually with Mr. Solie
present but that I did not know in advance anything about the
topics of any interviews. fT told ANATOLE it was my opinion
that once elicitation from NOSENKO began on the basis of his
recommendations that other interviews would stop. We
recognized and agreed that there might be a tactical and/or
psychological problem with NOSENKO by shifting the interview
‘technique to elicitation rather than consultation and a
response to’ questioning. ANATOLE could not emphasize too

, strongly the need to let NOSENKO.respond fully with minimal
prodding or stimulation and without refreshing his memory.
ANATOLE was told it was my understanding the elicitation :
“phase would be conducted by Mr, Solie without FBI partici--
pation although I did tell ANATOLE that the elicitation trans-
Cript results would undoubtedly be given to the FBI just as
have the results of all the 1967-69 interviews. ,

F, ANATOLE expects and recommends that the period of

elicitation will be followed by the period of interrogation _
or confrontation to be conducted by a team of threo persons -
The security expert, Mr. Solic; a counterintelligence specialist

who knows related cases and Ci problems, and a Soviet specialist.

HW 53216 DocId:32404748 Page 7
what influence that letter has had on NOSENKO during the 67-68
interviews.

D. It was necessary to emphasize to ANATOLE the fact
that at this time it is not possible for ne to assure him that
everything NOSENKO has said on any topic has been racovered
or is retrievable even for the interview period of 1967-1963
{and 69). Hoting the papers we had prepared ANATOLE had to
be told there was no assurance that everything NOSENKO has
said was included or considered when attempting to extract
or summarize his statements about a person or event. Specif-
ically it was noted that with a fow exceptions no topic or
item is fully covered during one or two interviews. Even
though ANATGLE recognized the problem based on his review of
the transcripts of the 1967-68 interviews it was necessary
to emphasize the fact that the validity of any given question
we had framed might be challenged, reversed or modified as the
process of indexing: the transcripts continued, ANATOLE was
told that as of 31 March 1969 we had been able to index and
extract the transcripts and wemoranda of the 1967-68 interviews.
only through N-188 of approximately 260 N-memoranda. ANATOLE
also was told it is not possible to be certain that all previous
information from NOSENKO can be accurately and fully recovered,
For this reason it is difficult if not impossible to isolate

what he night have said in 1964 and/or 1905 and compare that

 

HW 53216 DocId:32404748 Page 5
HW 53216

statement with what he said in 1968, ANATOLE also acknowledged
noting the possible significance of tha interview techniques

as these have varied over the years, Contrast in the technique
and the approach to NOSENKO where, for example, he is provided
information or asked oniy to confirm a leading question has
tended to dilute if not obscure what NOSENKO actually has

had to say about many subjects; at this stage it may be
virtually impossible to distinguish NOSENKO's original infor-

mation fron subsequent statements modified as a result of.

‘questioning. ‘This problem is an important consideration

because the approach to the elicitation phase was developed
with this in mind. Essentially it was agreed with ANATOLE

that despite previous statements or information from NOSENKO
the elicitation phase would be managed to attempt to obtain |

£rom NOSENXO everything he has to offer or say about each

“CRUCIAL QUESTION at this time without reference to any previous

statement. It is ANATOLE's opinion that if NOSENKO provides

a full statement without prompting that further questioning
can bo meaningful after analysis of his statement despite

the possibility NOSENXO has modified or revised his information
as he has learned or apparently learned what he thinks is
wanted or he should say. ANATOLE believes the fundamental
problem remains and that despite NOSENKO's twists and turns

it will be possible to sort through the various. stories to

focus on the reason for NOSEMKO's dispatch and determine the

 

Docld:32404748 Page 6
®

NS a
tet Te Re PH Ee E

; a 0 ATTACHMENT B-
eo a @

ANATOLE Re NOSENKO

oy

CRUCIAL QUESTIONS

A. ANATOLE was consulted 31 March and 1 and 2 April 1969
concerning his recommendations on how to proceed to elicit
additional information from NOSENKO. ANATOLE offered specific,
topics and questions about which NOSENKO is to be questioned

after setting forth items or topics which ANATOLE considers

the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS which need explanation or resolution.

These CRUCIAL QUESTIONS are set forth below with comment or —

-notations which emerged during our discussions.

Be ANATOLE understands that the immediate period of

- elicitation from NOSENKO is part of the program to attempt to

resolve the bona fides of NOSENKO. He understands that his

participation and contribution is actually the implementation

. of the program he originally believed was to be followed

“before there were any conclusions about NOSENKO's bona fides.

HW 53216

ANATOLE | had been reviewing his file material and the transcripts
of his comments in January 1959 (The KY transcripts) so he

was prepared to discuss aspects of the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS as
well as specific elicitation topics. As our contribution to |
the discussion with ANATOLE we had prepared 26 papers relating
specifically to NOSENKO and I had notes concerning other points

or topics to be discussed. Each paper was read by ANATOLE, he

fa

Docld:32404748 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

Date: 02/13/01
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

CIA
104-10534-10082

(44 use

Bio? None) . Case: NW 53216

 

NOSENKO RECORDS

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

ATTACHMENT B TO MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:ANATOLE RE
NOSENKO, CRUCIAL QUESTIONS.

04/07/69

45

NOSENKO

"ANATOLE" ~
NBR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SECRET

POSTPONED IN FULL

02/02/01

 

JFK-M-24:F44 2001.02.02.09:27:45:170084: DOCUMENT DATE
TAKEN FROM LAST TWO PAGES - CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT.
NOT BELIEVED RELEVANT (NBR) .

(R]_ - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 53216 DoclId:32404746 Page 1
retained certain of the papers and, as set forth below, he
commented about certain of the papers ox related matters.
After outlining the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS we worked out an elici-
tation guide to be followed with NOSENKO as the beginning of
_ the program. The clicitation guide is detailed separately.
C. ANATOLE submits the following as his recommendation
“about how to proceed with NOSENKO:

1. Isolate the CRUCIAL QUESTIONS for our guidance
-and consideration. (de basically accomplished this 31 March
and 1 and 2 April although obviously these may be revised).

2. ‘Devise questions for elicitation. The questioning
of NOSENKO is to begin immediately and is to follow the pro-
cedures set forth separately. (The initial phase of this: was

- accomplished, Additional or revised elicitation topics or
‘questions will be considered when the results of the £irst
elicitation phase are reviewed with ANATOLE).

3. A polygraph examination. (ANATOLE believes another
polygraph based on questions he will help frame will be. essential.
It is his opinion that it will be possible to make the polygraph
meaningful if questions are based on a careful review of the
results of the elicitation and specifically on the basis of
has knowledge, ANATOLE believes it should be possible to use
the polygraph effectively and to eliminate or explain more

adequately the qualifications ‘concerning NOSENKO's veracity

HW 53216 DocId:32404748 Page 3
such as “substantially truthful" by pinpointing questions
and areas where there remains doubt. ANATOLE agreed there
might be a question of when a polygraph examination should
be administered since it might be more effective after the
confrontation or hostile interrogation of NOSENKO.)

4. A hostile/confrontation interrogation phase at

._ which time NOSENKO would be faced with the errors, incon-~

sistencies, falsehoods, etc. in his story and advised that

his mission failed. This phase of the approach to NOSENKO

would only be undertaken upon conclusion of the elicitation

phase or if or when NOSENKO's attitude changes during the
elicitation phase. The cenfrontation would be undertaken
only when full research on every aspect of each CRUCIAL

QUESTION has been completed and specific questions are

’ £ramed with ANATOLE on the basis of NOSENKO's information: or

answers and all collateral information. In this connection
ANATOLE expects continuing research on each crucial question

so that each can be examined on the basis of a summary of all
information about the question, the details of what NOSENKO
has said and related or collateral information. such as :
photographs or documents, etc. The hostile interrogation phase
ANATOLE anticipates will be undertaken only after full consid-
eration of all possible problems. For example ANATOLE stresses
he will need to review the Bagley letter of November 1966 to |

HOSENKO since this will be a key elewent in considering how to

'. proceed with the confrontation as well as to attempt to determine

HW 53216

—_———
ve “ 4
Docld:32404746 Page 4 ne
