action up to or including invasion."

18. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 21 April 1964.

 

Notes that Alexis Johnson is in charge of contingency planning for a coup
in Cuba. . ; . ‘

5

\

19. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 14 May 1964..

This memo suggests that a primary goal of the Johnson Administration was
"to keep the lid on Cuba'' until after the November Presidential elections. be,
Thus, the continued exile raids were viewed negatively since they increased __
the noise level. The memo makes it clear that the exile raids were becoming :
completely beyond U.S. control despite CIA financial support to the groups.

 

20. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 2 June 1964.

Chase notes that Castro has executed three anti-Castro Cubans and jailed
two others as CIA agents. CIA admits having a connection with the executed
Cubans ''but that it is completely deniable." .

 

Memo, Helms, DDP, to OCI, 10 June 1964. Subject: ''Plans of Cuban

D Me to Assassinate Selected Cuban Government Leaders”

ee

The CIA was made aware of certain plans to kill Castro. The Agency told
the sources, according to Helms, that ''the United States Government would not,
under any circumstances, condone the planned actions." - Apparently on 2 March
1964 a wealthy Cuban exile was approached with a Cosa Nostra offer to assassinate
Castro for $150,000. The wealthy exile turned down the offer. Similar offers

 

Castro, plus $2,500 for expenses. Julio Lobo Olavarria, a wealthy Cuban
exile in New York was to pay much of the money, and did pay the $2,500 on

25 April. Though Cameron's group remained anonymous, it was clear the Mafia
was involved. Cameron revealed that his contact was a police officer in the
St. Louis (Mo.) Vice Squad.

 

were make to other Cuban exiles in early March. A leading figure in the ue
negotiations was Byron Cameron, a shipping-businessmen from Ft. Lauderdale. i
An agreement was finally made to pay the Cameron group $100,000 for killing L
kb
i

@ Memo , Chase to Bundy, 15 June 1964. Subject: "Assassination of Castro." ve

Referring to the above memo from DDP to DCI, Chase notes that John
Crimmins feels the matter should be discussed at a Special Group meeting.

 

 

      
"John's own inclination is that the U.S. Government cannot knowingly permit
any criminal American involvement in this sort of thing, '' notes Chase,
"and should ‘go all out to stop the plot.'' In marginal notations, Bundy
agrees with John and with the need to forward the matter to the Special
Group. : : —

 

23. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 16 June 1964, with attachment (Des FitzGerald's
"A Reappraisal of Autonomous Operations").

FitzGerald makes a defense of the autonomous operations. Tom Mann and
_ Chase disapprove of the operations, though for different reasons. —

 

24. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 18 June 1964.

Chase warns that further U.S. support of the autonomous groups is more
likely to lead to a U-2 shootdown and a Caribbean crisis than the overthrow
of the Castro regime. Chase continues to be worried about noice levels
and the November election. This memo is very much like his 14 May memo
(see Item 19). .

 

5) Memo for the Record, Peter Jessup, 22 June 1964.

In a reference to Helm's memo on assassination (see Item 21), it was
pointed out in a 303 Committee meeting of 18 June that "these reports, in
effect, put the United States Government on notice that failure to take
preventive action could be construed as condonation. ' The AG said Justice
would look into the matter. ~ se

 

“26. Memo, McCone to Bundy, 19 August 1964.

McCone summarizes the FBI investigation of Cuban exile plots against i,
Castro as outlined in Helm's memo of 19 June (See Item 21). The Bureau i
interviewed many people allegedly involved, most of whom denied the existence
of such a plan (The Bureau did not interview Cameron, since he was out of
the country). The most interesting finding was that Lobo had in fact
discussed the matter with CIA. :

27. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 10 November 1964.

f
'
t
5
fa
'

The election past, Chase et al. agreed that "we can usefully do some

 

 

Docld:32423484 Page 10
-4-

The final attachment is an . unsigned report on "Spectrum of Courses

of Action with Respect to Cuba," dated 21 February 1964, and probably a
_CIA document. It begins by citing the AG to the effect that ''there is no . ae
point in discussing courses of action with respect to Cuba until the hee
fundamental decision is made as to whether or not it is possible for the : —
United States to live with Cuba.'' Without answering this question, the report

sets out a series of options or courses of action under two headings: (1)"Can and

Can't Live with Castro."' Under the latter, the options range from covert

sabotage to invasion, but do not mention assassination of: Castro.

14. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 23 March 1964, with attachments. Subject: U.S.
Policy Towards Cuba, April to November, 1964.

 

Chase still recommends ''the tough, nasty, but no military intervention/
blockade policy...."" (7). The policy will include ''a modest covert program"
(11). CIA sabotage efforts will be terminated, though the Agency will continue
trying to identify, seek out, and establish contact with potential dissident
non-Communist elements in the power centers of the Castro regime. The possi-

‘bilities of talking with Castro are viewed positively (12). Chase suggests
that the realities of domestic political considerations."'réinforce our
igo security decision to keep a reasonable amount of pressure on Cuba..

15

 

15. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 7 April 1964.

Crimmins warns Chase that infiltration/exfiltration problems may create
noise regarding U.S. covert programs against Cuba.

 

16. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 10 April 1964, with attachment.

More discussions on the possibility of opening talks with Castro. ;
The attachment emphasizes the true autonomy from the CIA of the autonomous . 7
exile groups. . i

@ Memo, Bundy to LBJ, 17 April 1964, with attachment (Memo, Taylor to LBJ, : :
1 Narch 1964), 1964 — 7

The Taylor memo notes that LBJ asked the JCS on 4 March 1964. to think
of new ways to (1)gain OAS support for the overthrow of Castro and (2)
bring additional pressure upon Castro. Taylor concludes that the JCS "have
difficulty identifying promising actions against Castro which have not been
previously considered, and in some cases tried. It is a hard fact," Taylor
continues, ''that little remains which offers premise of real effectiveness
in removing Castro short of a blockade or an ascending scale of military

 

 

   

Docld:32423484 Page 8
~3-

11. A second copy of the above memo.

12. Memo and attachment on Cuban policy from John W. Ford, FSO, to.
- Bundy, dated 18 February 1964.

 

The lengthy attachment appears to be a working paper on Cuba prepared
for Bundy by Rostow's staff in State. The authors (Ford and Bob Johnson) —_—
write: "If we.are to be realistic about our intent to get rid of the
cancerous potential of Castroism, is an attack:'on the symptoms enough?

Is it not essential to get at the disease itself?" (10). And, later,

sees if we were publicly to acknowledge /the extinction of the Castro
rogine? as. our aim, would not a sudden-blow seem a more logical way of
proceeding then the application of measured pressures?" (14). The paper
discusses the need for a plausible causus for action against Castro, asking
the question: ‘would not a better bet be to provoke one?".(16). They ;
suggest that "something like the assassination of a prominent Latin American _
leader" (17a) would be sufficient provocation, if blamed on Castro, to permit
U.S. action.

 

13, Memo, Chase to Bundy, with various attachments, no date, but probably
early March, 1964. Subject: Cuba, Covert Program.

 

Of special interest here is the attached letter from Desmond Fitz-
Gerald to Bundy, dated 6 March 1964. '"Des'' implies that CIA efforts to get _—
rid of Castro were carried out "only in response to what we understand to
be policy requirements....'' (1). He makes the point that CIA-sponsored

sabotage raids were to serve as "'a sort of firing pin for internal unrest
and to create the conditions for a coup.'' However, only five low-key raids
were carried out (from August to December, 1963), followed by a three-month
hiatus. Des concludes that ''a covert.program at this time designed to
overthrow Castro is not realistic" (2). He does recommend, however, con-
tinuation of certain covert actions, each as ''carefully concealed con-
tamination of lubricants" shipped into Cuba and "similar actions" (4).

 

A second attachment is a "Status Report on Autonomous Cuban’ Exile
Groups'', dated 30 March 1964, which underscores how truly autonomous these
groups really were; the CIA had lost control over them by this time.

The third attachment is a CIA "Review of Current Program of Covert Action
Against Cuba," dated "about 1/25/64.'' The ultimate goal of the CIA program
was "to stimulate dissident elements within the regime, particularly
in the armed forces, to carry out a coup" (7). The time frame for the
program was "about eighteen months from June 1963'' (7). The report notes
that the CIA has "continued to improve our own infiltration techniques
and are still able to penetrate Cuba's defenses with good regularity”
(13-14). The five sabotage raids on Cuba run by CIA are listed at Annex I.

~ ho Soegoee eee as

4

il

 

   
July 21, 1975

SUMMARY OF JOHNSON LIBRARY DOCUMENTS

©) NSC Minutes, 5 May 1961 and NSC Record of Actions, 16 May 1961.

 

 

At the 5 May NSC meeting, Rusk suggested that the U. S. must take
all measures to precipitate Castro's downfall or face the possibility : —_—
that all South America will come under Communist influence.

On the subject of Trujillo, the President said (25 days before the
dictator was murdered) that the U. S. should draw the line on becoming
involved in the affairs of another country, such as active participation
in the overthrow of Trujillo. Instead, the United States should determine
appropriate courses of action in case Trujillo falls.

 

The 16 May Record of Actions emphasizes it was the President's view . —
that. the U. S. should not initiate the overthrow of Trujillo before we
knew what government would succeed him. This same document outlines
U. S. policy toward Cuba; it was agreed that U. S. policy toward Cuba
should aim at the downfall of Castro, though specific mention of assas-
sination is not to be found among the many options outlined.

2. Letter from Lodge to Rusk, 13 September (19637).

 

In an obviously anti-Diem letter, Lodge asks Rusk to send General
Lansdale to South Vietnam Nam to take charge of all U. S. relationships
with a-change of government. Why Lodge so confidentally expected a
change of government is an interesting question.

iS

_ 3. A note from Bromley Smith to George Christian (undated, but presumably
early in the Johnson Administration, perhaps December, 1963).

 

A good example of the establishment of plausible deniability for the
President, at the suggestion of the CIA. '‘-

4. Memo from Chase dated 2 December 1963 and probably for Bundy.

‘Among other things, Chase recommends "a vigorous, tough, and nasty :
policy" against Cuba, including strengthening the covert action program :
and continuing to explore "every avenue in order to make life as diffi- '
cult for Castro and as expensive and unpleasant for the USSR as possible." H
Moreover, "We should be prepared to meet any event which might offer the
opportunity of a sudden overthrow of Castro (e.g., the shooting down of t
a U-2)."

 

 

  

 

13493484 Page 5 . : . rar a a
 

-~2-

5. Memo from Chase to Bundy, 4 December 1963.

Plans for a meeting regarding Cuban policy. John Crimmins will
present several options for discussion, including unleashing of Cuban
exiles and the intensification of the covert program.

6. Memo, Chase to Bundy, 2 December 1963.

This memo is mainly important because it reveals who in the Admin-
istration was dealing with Cuban policy. The list of people to attend
the meeting on Cuba held this.day included: Lyndon B. Johnson, Rusk, ©
Ed Martin, McNamara, McCone, Helms or Des Fitzgerald, Don Wilson, Bundy,
and Chase.

7. Memo, Bundy to Lyndon B. Johnson, 12 December 1963.

For a press conference, Bundy recommends the following language re-
garding Cuba: "...say...that you expect to take every available means

to stop and turn ‘back the spread of Communism in this hemtsphere."

-8. CIA Summary of Costs for Cuban Operations, FY 1960-1964, dated 15
December 1963. .

This table reveals that the CIA spent $106,155,774 on Cuban Opera-
tions, almost 50 percent of which was spent on paramilitary action
($47,815,122). The total covert action budget (psychological and para-
military warfare) was approximately $81,000,000 in this four-year period.

9. Chase minutes on meeting with Lyndon B. Johnson, 27 December 1963.

The meeting appears to be the first major briefing for the new Presi-
dent on Cuba.. Desmond Fitzgerald did most of the briefing, which in-
cluded a detailed description of CIA assets in Cuba, proposed sabotage plans,
and attempts by the CIA to stimulate an internal coup which would
dislodge Castro. The CIA was aiding two exile groups in particular:
.one led by Manuel Artime, the other by Manolo Ray. Bundy recommends
that Lyndon B. Johnson take "a more vigorous line /toward Cuba/ than
we have in the past."

10. Memo, Bundy to Lyndon B. Johnson, 9 January 1964.

Bundy recommends a Cabinet-level review of the whole principle of
covert sabotage against Cuba. He notes that Rusk and McNamara do not
support the program of sabotage, while "McCone and the CIA are for it,
and so are most of the middle-level officers dealings with the Castro ~
problem." Bundy concludes: ''...in.your position, I would stop sabotage

attacks on the ground that they are illegal, ineffective, and damaging
’ to our broader policy."

 

 

  

Docld: 32423484 Page 6 gt . coe, ee er

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

08/06/95
1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION - FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA ~
RECORD NUMBER ;: 157-10014-10096 ;
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-02
DOCUMENT INFORMATION

\

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA . -
FROM : JOHNSON, LOCH
TO :
TITLE : LBJ LIBRARY NATIONAL SECURITY PAPERS TOUCHING ON
ASSASS. AND COVERT ACTION IN CUBA
DATE : 07/21/75
PAGES : 217
SUBJECTS : CIA
CUBA.

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNSEL

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 438

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DoclId:32423464 Page 2
 

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

- RECORD SERIES :

 

JFK Assassination System 6/29/201

Identification Form

Date:

 

 

Agency Information

SSCIA
157-10014-10096

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

* AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ——07-M-02

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

TT III I ne

v9.1
Docld:32423464 Page 1

i

 

 

‘ Document Information
SSCIA
JOHNSON, LOCH ’

LBJ LIBRARY NATIONAL SECURITY PAPERS TOUCHING ON ASSASS. AND COVERT
ACTION IN CUBA

07/21/1975
217

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNSEL
CUBA

CIA

SUMMARY
Declassified
1B; 1C
Redact
03/08/2000

CCBOX 438
R5aaQ

LBJ LIBRARY
NATIONAL SECURITY PAPERS
TOUCHING ON ASSASSINATION AND
COVERT ACTION IN CUBA

A SUMMARY WITH KEY DOCUMENTS

COPY __|__ oF 5

21 July 1975

 
TOP SECRET — SENSITIVE

21 July 1975

 

MEMORANDUM FOR SENIOR STAFF’ , a —_—

SUBJECT: Summary of Significant Documents Retriged from the Lyndon
Baines Johnson Library, Austin, Texas .

FROM: Loch Johnson

 

I have just.returned from a. trip to the LBJ Library where I in- rouge
spected the National Security Files. I was allowed to examine the files °
dealing with U.S. policy toward Cuba, the Johnson Vice Presidential
Security files, and NSC minutes. The Library staff sifted through the
Bundy papers for me, extracting anytiing relevent to Cuba for my inspection.

I was not permitted to examine either the Bundy papers or the Rostow
papers myself, since the Library has not yet cleard them. Similarly, I
was unable to examine the Vietnam country files or the Laos country files
because we have not been given authority to do so yet.

 

Though these roadblocks were frustrating, I found I had my hands
filled for the moment simply working my way through the papers which
were available. I selected 44 documents to bring home, totaling 208
pages. These documents range from a verification of information we
already know to some useful new information (see Items 21 and 22, e.g.)
to, some startling new leads in the area of covert action (see Item
28). What follows is a capsule summary 2f each document presented in
chronological order. High priority items have tabs marked in red.

 

t
&

 

 

Déckt:32d23484 Page 4 ~~ SN 7 Mee

 
