 

 

“ te oF wa at
2 . norobd
:

1 yenience of” expression, the Select. Committee "Po ‘Study
9 Gor eramental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Ac
"3 tivities to conduct an investigation and study of the oxtent, if.
“4: ‘any, ‘to which iMexal, improper, or ‘anethival activities -were
“3 engaged i in by any agency or by any persons, acting cither,

6 individually or jn combination with others, in carrying out.

% any intelligence or surveillance activities ‘by or on behalf -

8 of ‘any agency of the Federal Government.

“9 . (b) The select committee created. by this ‘resolution -

40 Shall consist of eleven. Members of the Senate, sik. to be

ia “ appoinied by the President ‘of the Senate from the anajority

2 Members of: the Senate upon the recommendation of the

13 mnajotily leader of ihe Senate, and five minority Moinbiers of. .

Us, the Senate to be appointed by the President of the Senate °

eo upon the recommendation of the minority leader’ of ihe’.
16 Sertate. For the purposes of paragraph 6 of ralo XXV ‘ol the
17 Standing ‘Rules of the Senite, servic ‘of a ‘Sonator” asa
18. mombor, chair: man, or vice chairman, of te seleet éoinintifoo
A9, shall not be taken | into. account, , : *

20 (c) The major ity members of the couimittee shall sels”
“aL ‘RB chairman and the minority members shall sel i vids?

22 chairman and the committee shall adopt rules and procedures *

23 to govern its proceedings. The vice chairman shall preside

D& over meetings of the sclect committee during the absence’

HW 55195 PombdpaMsait,’ and’ awehstge such other responsjhilities

t

“om ia & me oR FO te

10:

19,

‘

20,

21,

22

 

.

..as-may be assigned to-him by the select committee or tho,
_ chairman. Vacancies in the membership of the ‘select com-

*:mittee shall not affect the. authority ‘of the remaining meny «

bers to execute the functions of the select committee and

“shall be filled in the same mannei as original appointments: ‘

to it are made. 5

(d) A majority of the members of the select commit

shall constitute ‘a quorum for the transaction of business, but

~ the select committee may affix a lesser number as a quorum

for the purpose .of taking testimony or depésitions.

Srco. 2. The select committee is authorized and ‘directed

* to do ev erything necessary or appropriate to make the i inc
-vestigations and study specified | in subsection (a) of the,
: “first section. Without, abridging in any way the authority.

. conferred | upon the select committee by the * preceding

sentence, the Senate further expressly authorizes and “@

the select committee to make a complete itivestigation and *

- study of the activitics.of any agency or of any and all persons

2 sor groups of persons or organizations of any kind which

have any tendency to xeveal the full facts with respect to

1. the:following matters or questions: top n Oee

(1) Whether the Central Intelligence: Agenoy has
.7 conducted an, illegal domestic intelligence operation in

. ithe United States. ..

 
 

 
 

40
. 4 , .
1 (2) The conduct of domestic ‘Intelligence -or-cowi-
2 “terintelligence operations against United Statés citizens
‘3 va ‘by the Federal Bureau of Investigation or any ‘other
‘“ nokoh.

Feder al agency.

ine (8) The origin arid disposition of the so-called Huis |

ton Plan to apply United States’ intelligence agéncy

2
?

the United States.
gh (4) The extent to which. the Federal Bureau of In-

5

6

yo capabilities against individuals or organizations within °
:

9

‘10° ” vestigation, fhe Central Intelligenee Agency, and ‘other

a1- °” Federal law enforcement or intelligence agencies coordi-

43 | ‘govern that coordination, and the extent to which a lack
16 om of coordination has contributed to activities ‘or actions
is ” “Which are illégal, improper, inefficient, wmethical, or" con=
is” _ bary to the intent of: Congress. to to - i
ar _ 6) The extent to which the operation of domestié

s _ intelligence or counterintelligenge ‘activities and thé

 

* operation of any other: activities awithin the United Sintes
20 uy * thy the Contral ‘Tntelligerice Ageitey conforms ‘to,the Teg:
ot islative chawter of that Agency and’ the intent ‘of tlie

hae]
“t 2 obo! . “we

bo) Congiess.
5°
24 ° Director of Central Intelligence ofthe ‘responsibility’ iB

 

 

HW 5519695 Docld, ap 989q/piedhadsaiftcs and methods as it relafos tn

 

 

42 nate their respective activities, any agreements which

: (6). The past and present ‘interpretation by ihe

 

 

Be
*’“dhe provision in section 102(d) (3) of the National
2 \ Seoutity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 408(d)-(8)) thal

Ber? 4, . that the agency shall have rio police, subpena, Jaw .

» a> Fr ontorcoment powers, or internal security functions... 2

5 (7) Nature and extent of cxeeutive branch over?‘
6 “"sioht of all United States ‘intelligence “activities... 3
Fu (8) The: need" for’ specific legislative, authority ‘@
8 govern the operations of any intelligence: agencies ot
9- } the Bederal ‘Government now existing ‘without thad
10!” explicit statutory authority, including but not limited t82
wr agencies such as the Defense’ Intelligence Agoncy and!
ig. ; the National Security Agency. _ tees £
1s) 8. he, nature and extent to whicli Federal ‘agencies!
JE" °° cooperate and exchange’ intelligence information and!
15. the adequacy of any regulations: or statutes whick!
16? se ‘govern such cooperation and exchange “Eigen gy
wets ‘information. * a rice

18." - (9) Tho-extent to which United States intelligencé*

AS" gooncies are -governed: by Txecutive orders, rules, di*
?

20h.” regulations cither. pnhlished ‘ox ‘sceret: anil! thé extoxét

"to which those Executive ‘orders, rules; ‘or regulation:

 

 

225:3-'".” Soterpret,: expand; or-aie-in- conflict with specific legis

23 | -Jative authority. a ue

>

BB

260.56 vs “FEO The*violation: ‘or suspected) yiolauion of any

28th gtnteoy Pederal statute byt any: infelligeyice agendy ox

 

 
 

   

ra

Route 10: Senvices, Inrorianion, Facturrmé, ano PERSONNEL oF THE
Government; Consunrants ~ * en

The Chairman shall have the authority’ to utilize the services, in-:
formation, facilities, and personnel of the departments and agenciesi
of the government, and to procure the temporary or intermittent serv—
ices of experts or consultants or organization thereof'to make studies:
.or assist Or advise the Committee with respect to any matter under

investigation. :
Roxe 11. Rerorrina or Mrasores OR RecoMMENDATIONS -

11.1 No measure or recommendations shall be reported from the
Committee unless a majority of the Committee is:-actually present
and a majority of those present concur. pot

11.2 In any.case in which the Committee is unable to: reach a
sunanimous decision, separate views or reports. may be presented! and:
printed by any member or members of the Committee. -

11.3 A member of the.Committee who gives. notice of his inten-
tion to file supplemental, minority, or additional views at the time of
final Committee approval of a measure or matter, shall be entitled to:
not less than three calendar days in which to file suely viows, in writing;.
with the Clerk ofthe Committee. Such views shall then be-included
in the Committee report and printed in the same: volume, ag 4 part
thereof, and their inclusion: shall be noted on the cover of'the report, '

Rozx 12. Ciraners in: Rees : . im

these Rules may be modified, amended, or repealed by the Com-
mittee, provided that a, notice in writing of the proposed change has
been given to cach member at least 48 houré prior to, the meeting at
which action-thereon is to be taken, . 2s

    

 

 

 

HW 55196 DocId: 329897738 Page @ . 7 oa

    

oy ran Considered, amended, and agreed to“ moa

:
ay

thes
vay?

“essa § RES, 21

 

 
 

oa ” “ '
_ IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES .

Janvary 21,1975 ,

i ‘i ion; whi ed:to-be-placed.
ibmitted the following resolution; which was ordered: ¢
Mis. Pasrone st on the calendar (under general orders)

G

Y

Janvany 27,1975 *

 

RESOLUTION =.

; “igo ‘establish a select cominittee of the Senate to conduct an in-

tae

westigation and study with respect to intelligence activities’ .
carried out by or on behalf of the Federal Government.

Resolved, To establish a select committee of the Senats

. 2, to conduct an investigation and study of governmental op-
erations with yespect to intelligence activities and of the .
ities were engaged in by any agency of the Federal Govern-

ment or by any persons, acting individually or in combina

with others, with respect to any intelligence activity carried

‘

2
2.
3
4 extent, if any, to which illegal, improper, or unethical activ-
5 '
8,
; 7
‘8

out by or on behalf of the Federal Government; he it further
9. Resolved, That, (2) there is hereby established a select

‘to commitiee of the Senate which may be called, for con-

 
 

HW 55196 DocId:32989778 Page 7

 
  

4,

comment made by a Committee member or Committee counsel, may
tend to affect adversely his reputation, may request -to. appear. per-:
sonally before the Committee to testify on his own behalf,.or may,
file a sworn statement of facts relevant to the testimony, evidence,
-or comment, or may submit to the Chairman proposed questions in.
writing for the cross-examination of other witnesses.:Lhe Committea
shall take such action as it deems’ appropriate.. er ae

+610 Contempt Piocedures-—No- recommendations that. a person
be cited ‘for- contempt of Congress shall be forwarded to the Senate:
unless and until the Committee has, upon notice to all its members,:
met and considered the alleged contempt, afforded: the person an

opportunity :to state-in writing or in person why he should: not be:.

held in contempt; and agreed, by majority vote of the Committee to~
forward such recommendation to the Senate. - er)
6.11. Release of Name of Witness ——Unless authorized by the.Chair-:

man, the name of any witness scheduled to be heard by the-Committee-

shall not be released prior to his appearance before the Committee.

Route 7. Procepenss vor [Lanpiine Crassirmp or Senstrive Marenran.

. 7.1 Committee staff offices on the first floor of the Dirksen Office.
Building shall operate under strict security precautions. Atleast one:
security guard shall be on duty at-all times by the entrance to con-:
trol entry..All persons before entering the offices shall identify them--
selves. At least one additional security guard shall be posted at-night.,
for surveillance of the secure area where sensitive documents are kept.

7.2 Sensitive ov classified documents and material shall be segre-:
gated in a secure storage area: They may be examined only at secure
reading facilities. Copying,.duplicating, or removal from the Coni-:
* mittee staff offices of such documents and other.materials is pro-
hibited except as‘is necessary for use in, or preparation for, interviews
or Committee meetings, including tho taking of testimony; and in

conformity with Section 9.2 hereof.

7.8 Tach member of the Committee shall’at all times have access’
to all papers and other material received from any source. The Staff
Director shall be responsible for the maintenance, under appropriate’:
security procedures, of a registry which will number and identify alli:
papers and other materials in the possession of the Committee, and:
such registry shall be available to any member of the Committee. *

74 Access to classified information supplied to the Committee shall
be limited to the Staff Director, the Chief Counsel and the Counsel
to the Minority, and to those staf members-with appropriate security.
clearances and a need-to-know. : .

7.5 No testimony taken including the names of witnesses testifying :
or material presented at an Executive Session, or classified paper's,
and other materials received by the staff or its consultants while in
the employ of the Committee shall be made public, in whole or in

part or by way of summary, or disclosed to any person outside the :.

Committee wiless authorized by a majority vote of the entire Com-_
* mittee, or after the termination of the Committee, in such manner aS
may be determined by thé Senate. es so

4 a

Fe te 9 enrages

?
t
+
i
j
|
|

  
  
   
   
  
  

Session shall be made pursuant to the rules of the Senate.

” staff and consultants shall

C6 Before the Committce is called upon to make any disposition:
with respect to the testimony, papers, or other materials presented to
it, the Committee members shall have a reasonable opportunity to
examine all pertinent testimony, papers and other materials that have
been obtained by the Committee staff. No member’shall release ariy-
such ‘testimony, papers, or other materials, or any information con-
tained in such. testimony, papers, or other materials, to the public:
or any person outside the‘Committee imiless authorized .by‘a majority:
vote of the entire Committee, or after the termination of the Com:
mittee, in such manner as may be determined by the Senate.

Rowe 8. Prerararion ror Commyrrre Mrertines

28.1 Under direction of the Chairman, the Staff Director, Chief
Counsel, Counsel to the Minority, or other designated staff members.

any Committee meeting in order to assist the Committee membi
in preparation for such meeting and to determine any matter whic
the Committee member might wish considered during the meeting.
Such briefing shall include a list of all pertinent papers and other
materials that have been obtained by the Committee that bear on
matters to be considered‘at the meeting. “ .
8.2 The Staff Director, the Chief Counsel, and the Counsel to the:

Shall brief members of the Committee at’ a time sufliciently on

’ Minority shall recommend to the Chairman and the Vice Chairman’

‘the testimony, papers, and other materials to be presented to the Com:
mittee at any meeting. The determination whether such testimony,
papers, and other materials shall be presented in open or Executive

stews Rupe 9. Srarr

9.1 The appointment of all staff members and consultants shall be

» confirmed by a majority vote of the Committee. After confirmation,

the Chairman shall certify staff appointments to the Financial Clerk

, of the Senate in writing.

9.2 Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, the dutie@iiy

@ performed, and staff personnel af
and day-to-day operations, including security and control of classified
documents and material, shall be administered under the direct super-

vision and control of the Staff Director and the Chief Counsel. The .
Counsel for the Minority shall be kept fully informed regarding all -

matters and shall have access to all material in the files of the.
Committee. ‘

9.8 The staff of the Committee shall not discuss either the substance
or procedure of the work of the Committee with anyone other than
a member of the Committee or other Committee personnel. Upon

. termination of employment by the Committee, each member of the
* staff, or consultant, shall surrender all classified and other material

relating to the work of the Committce which came into his possession
while in the employ of the Committee.

9.4 The employment of any member of the staff or consultant who
fails to conform to any of these Rules shall bo immediately terminated.

   
  
    
  
  

   
  
   
   
   
    

 

  

~ 905 ——.

   
 

 

 

 

 

thew we

NW 55196 DocId:32989778 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  

   

ous aot
recusig tt

(OE RULES OF PROCEDURE YY uc7
_ These Rules ave issued pursuant to the 1st Section of Senate Resolu-
tion 21,'94th Congress, Ist Session, agreed to. January 27, 1975, and ;

printed in full in the appendix hereto ati te tee gt

 

   
 

ora

 

Ree 1/ Conventxe or “Mrerrxes

1.1 The Coinmittee indy schedule a regular’day’and“hour for the
Committee tomect, , +. ., toto at ; .

12 (The Chairnan shall have authority, wpon proper notice, yy
call stich additional meetings of the Committee as he may deem neces- ,
sary. ahd may delegate such authority to any other member of the’
Committee, ete . beet ; :

_138° A-special meeting of the Committee may be called at any time,
upon the written request of six or more members of the Committee.
filed with the Clerk of the Committee. ‘ :

14 In the case of any mecting of the Committee, other than a
regularly scheduled meeting, the,Clerk of the Committee shall notify
every member of the Commiitee of the time and place of the meeting
and shall give reasonable notice which, except in extraordinary cir-- *
cwnstances, shall bo at least 24 hours in advance of any meeting held in ,
Washington, D.C. and at least 483 hours in the case of any meeting:
held- outside Washington, D.C. soe .

1.5. If a majority of the members ‘of the Committee have made a,
request in writing to the Chairman to call a meeting of the Committee
and the Chairman fails to call such a meeting within seven calendar
days thereafter, including the day on which the written notice is sub-
mitted, such majority may call 2 meeting by filing a written notig
with the Clerk of the Committee who shall promptly notity “©
member’ of ‘the Committee in writing of the date and time of t
meeting: * : ‘ .

a Rory’ 2, Meermva Procepures '

21 Meetings-of-the Committee shall be open to the public except
when otherwise directed by the Chairman or majority vote of members
resent. :
P 2.2 It shall be the duty of tho staff director to keep or cause to be
kept a record of all Committee proceedings.’ .

‘23 The Chairman of the Committee, or if the Chairman is not
present: the Vice Chairman, shall preside over all meetings of the Com-
mittee. In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman at any
meeting the ranking majority member, or if no majority member is
present the ranking minority member present shall preside. ~

.24 Txcept as otherwise provided in these Rules, decisions of the
Committee shall be by majority vote of the members present and
voting, A quorim for the transaction of Committee business, including

ee eet ot, GO -

   
 

 

the conduct of Executive sessions, shall consists of six Committee
members except, that for the purpose of ‘hearing witnesses, taking
sworn testimony, and receiving evidence under oath, a’ quorum may
eonsist of one Senator. .

“2.5 A vote by any member of, the Committee with respect to any
measure or matter being considered: by the Committee may be cast
by proxy if the proxy authorization.(1) is in writing to the Chairman
or Viee Chairman; (2) designates the member of the Committee-who,

. is to exercise the proxy; and (8) is limited to 9 specific: measure or,
matter and any amendments pertaihing thereto. Proxies shall not be:
considered for the establishment of a quorum. : .

. Rye 8. Broancastina, Tenevisioy, ano. Puoroararsy . |
on 2 ot 7
Any Committee meeting which is open to the public, may; subject
to Rule 6.7,.be-covered; in whole or in part, by television, radio, still |
photography, or other media coverage, if the Chairman authorizes |
stich coverage. When coverage by’ any sucli media is authorizedit.
must be. conilucted in an orderly and wnobirusive manner, and: the
Chairman may for good cause terminate such media coverage-in-whole,
* ov in part; or take such other action as the cireumstancesapay warrant,

“ae .

“tte Rune Isvesticarions ©
‘No. investigation shall bo initiated by the. Committeo. unless a
majority of the members.of. the Committee has-specificall authorized!
such investigation, but any member of the Commitieo shall he entitled!
to-pursue any, inquiry individually unless. specifically prohibited: by 2 |
majority vote of the members of the Committee.. Authorized: investi-: |
gations or inquiries. may -be conducted: by, members, of the: Committée
and/or by dosignated staff members. " -'.} tt

 

 

   

 

“oe Runa 5. -Supvornas . st -

. e

 

. : . an
Subpoents ‘for attendance of witnesses or the production of memo-
yanda,, documents. records, or. any other matorial- may. be issued by.
. the Chairman. or.any other member-designated by him after consultaz ,
tion with the Vice’ Chairman, and- may be served by any persor
designated by the Chairman or member. Each subpoena shall contain
a.copy of Senate Resolution: 24; 4th. Congress} 1st'Session: «© .

 

Rese 6. Procenunes R ED TO THE Taxixe or ‘Trsrarony”

6.1 Notice —Witnesses required: to. appear before the Committee»,
shall be given reasonable natice-and. all witnesses shall be furnished a
copy of. these Rules,- ; Bot fae ree

62 Oath oy Afirmation-—‘Testimony: of withesses shall be given’

  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
 

of the Committees ot ; 7
63 Jutexrogation—Commnittee interrogation shali be conducted by

meinbers of the Commitice and, such. stafl personnel as is authorized ,
by the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, or the presiding member. | -
“6.4 Counsel for the Witness—(a), Any witness may be accompanicd

Hw sex oeouRReh TA. Mau IEsG WHO Ag quable to obtain counsel may inform

 

 

 

under oath. or aflirmation which may, be administered by, any member ,

 
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
     
  
     
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
     
    
   

 

  

» Any: witness. desiring-tosmake a prepared: on written: statement for

 

wnwialoens. theo egsio Sen yossieuesaainss Sy HEE CTA ge eee Raine Ee Rea

3 :
the Committee-of such: fact; ‘and ifs consistent: with. the: notice: givens
under Section: 6.1: hereof, at loast- 24 hours. prior-to-his: appearance;
before: the Committee, the Commitice shall:then endeavor’ to obtain.
voltmiary counsel for the witness, but: failure to obtain-such- counsel
will not-excnse the witness from appearing. and: testifying. an

(b). Counsel shall.conduct themselves in an ethical.andiprofessional,
manner. Failure to do-so shall; wpon. a finding to, that: effect by: ax
majority.of the members present, subject such counsel to disciplinary
action which may, include: warning; censure, removal, or. a recom!
mendation of contempt proceedings:. . . aa os

(c): ‘Phere. shall: be no, direct: or cross: examination by counstl;,
However; counsel may submit iir writing, awy, questions: he: wishes,
propounded tovhis clients ox to;any other witness and: may; at thes
conclusion of his client’s-testimony, suggest the-presentation. of other;
evidence or the calling of. other. witnesses. Bhe. Committee, may ; "1
such questions and disposed of such suggestions:asdt, may, see-fit., a
. 65: Statements: by, Witnesses—A. witness mayi make-ostatementy,

- which shall be brief and relevant, at the beginning and conclusion of
his testimony. Such, statements: shall: not exceed: 2. reasonable period, «|
of time a determined by the Chairman, or other presiding member.

. the record.of the proceedings shall file a.copy with the: Clerk of. thei
Committee, and-in so fax as practicable, and:consistent:- with the notice:
. given; shali do so at last’ 72‘ hours. im advance oft his. apperarica>
before the:Committes, vote se :
6.6- Objections.and Rulings.—Any objection. raised by-w, witness ovi
counsel ‘shalt: be ruled: upon by the Chaivman: or other, presiding
membery.and:such. ruling shiall:be'the ruling of the: Committee unlesse
wv majority ofthe:-Gommittee present overrules:the ruling: TInitheicaso;
oftie votes the rule ofthe chair will prevail.;. : : . pet
6.7 Lights. and- Broadcasting —Any ‘witness, whether appearing!
voluntarily or-pursuang-to.subpoenay may, request that hig; testimony
‘riot be covered by television, motion:picture:.or ather, cameras.or- radio:
microphones. Unless: pridiy notice; is: waived: by the. Committeaga
. Witness: desiring to make: such sv request: must; so inform: the. CQ:
Counsel of the Committee inowriting at least 48-hours prior.to the time.
that witness is-scheduled: to testify. Suchwequests shall beruled onsin:
accordance with Rule 9.4. vot .
68 Lpspection.and Correction —All witnesses testifying before the:
Committee shall. be. given a. rensontble opportunity to inspect, in
the: office of the Committee, the transcript of their; testimony: to.
determine’ svhether: such testimony was correctly, transcribed: The-
, Witness may be accompanied by counsel. Any corrections-the avitness..
desires to- make-in the transcript shall'be-submitted in. writing to the
Committee. within. five days: of the availability, of the transcripty..
Corrections shall-be limited to.grammar andiminon editing, snd may-
not be ntade-to change the. substance af the testimony. Any questions;
arising with respect to such corrections-shall. be-decided-by: the Ghair-;
man, Upon request, those. parts.of testimony given. by: a. witness in,
Jixecutive.session.which are subsequently, quotedjor:made part, oftay
record shall be made available to that. witness:at;his-exponse. ‘ — .,
6.9 Persons Affected by Testimony.—A person who believes that
testimony or other evidence presented at a public heaving, or any

 

 

 

    
   
  
  

   
   
 
   
   
 

  
   

  
    
   
   
  
  
 

      
  
  
 
 

 

  
   
    

. a , . Pa
¢ €

DO NOT DESTROY

NEW ORLEANS FILE NO:_. @ EEL tf
reviewen on:  /O/2/73

FOR FOIPA en
TPR (ea

DO. NOT DESTROY

Soe FOV

 

  

Mf 55196 Docld:32989778 Page 2

 
 

 

 

— File#:
— G2 No- ea

 

 

 

 

 

 
ie

3

& Treat seta
! we (

|

ie

 

 

   

[COMMITTEE PRINT]
d+ thitzn
luted ana)

' RULES OF PROCEDURE
voR THE .
SELEOL COMMITTEE TO STUDY
GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
"RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

. ‘UNIT

sey

 

(Adopted “April 9, 1975) ° |
“(Amended September 22,1975

  

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
_ WASHINGTON ; 1975

{55196 , Docld: 32989778, Page 3

 

 
   
          
 

 

{ PIELIP A. HART, Michigan

i GARY HART, Colorado

hove se

 

 

 

55196

 

 

 

 

‘SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERA-:
pet TIONS WITH RESPECT TO. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
} (Established by S. Res. 21, 94th Cong.,
* FRANK CHURCH, Idaho, Chairman . .
JOUN LOWER, Texas, Vico Chairman .

1 WALTER P, MONDALD, ‘Minnesota
* WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, Kentucky
! ROBERT MORGAN, North Carolina

eterteientar naar Aeterna ment mele eeeen emnnaneaten s weenbe men etete i dati Seen Sm tak

Docld: 32969776

 

  

Ast sess.)

HOWARD H, BAKER, Jn,, Tennessee i
BARRY GOLDWATER, Arizona 1
CHARLES McC, MATHIAS, Jz., Maryland t
RICHARD §. SCHWEIKER, Pennsylvania

FREDERICK A. O; Scuwanz Ir., Chief Counsel

i
Winrias G, MILLER, Staff Director !
Cunrris R, SmorHens, Minority Counset ,

Avbnex EH: Harny, Olerk . ete

ae |

 

Page 4

 

Rule 1
Rule 2
Rule.3
Rule 4
Rule 5
Rule 6

“Rule 7

Rule 8,
Rule 9

Rule 10 Services, Information, Facilities and Perso

‘INDEX. ;

Convening of Meetings..._..-.-.~
Meeting Procedures.
Brondeasting, Television and Photography-...-.
Investigations .

 

 
 
  
     
  

 

  

to the Yaking of

 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  

Affirmation.
Interrogation -...-----
Counsel for the Witness.
Statements by Witnesses.__.--.
Objections and Rulings.
Lights and Broadcasting.
Inspection and Correction.
Persons Affected by Lestiniony-~.
Contempt Procedures_.-.-.-.
Release of Name of Witness...
Procedures for Handling Classified or Sensitive Material
Preparation for Committee Meetings.

S10 ee nnn nnn nant en ener enemas:

 

 

  
 

 

 

of the Govern-
ment; Consultants... 2 n-ne nnne nnn e anne nen en ence en nee

 

 

Rule 11 . Reporting of Mexsures or Recommendations....------.------

Rule 12 Changes in Rules...--_---.--.-~----------.

 

Appendix—sS,

ROS, Qn nee en eee nen ener menenene

(7)

Page.

RO oF nn idee

           
   
    
           
