 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CG 92-349

Investigation to date has revealed that the only
possessor of a key to this building is the owner CARMEN FANELLI.
Investigation has further revealed that an elderly Italian
caretaker, described by PCI EBLE as a relative of FANELLI, opens
the Armory Lounge at approximately 9:00 A.M. and proceeds to
the Armory by foot, which indicates that he resides within a few
blocks of the establishment. (J

In view of the location of this establishment close
to heavy traffic and due to the fact that. there is-no cover
or concealment to individuals attempting to penetrate it, it
is not felt that it would be feasible at this time to attempt
any such penetration even though a coverage at this Place would

render available assista SF to the investigation of top hoodlum
activities in this area .(U

Attempts will be made to explore the ‘possibilities
of obtaining a key which would permit immediate access to this
building and if such is met with success the Bureau will be

immediately advised as to the feasibility then of attempted
coverage. y) : woe

LOPEZ

a
a

8

rf
ba

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

. :

‘ . ‘ cant ee
FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

”" FBI
Date: 10/4/60

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)
AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing) i

so

"JUNE"

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

 

Re Bureau airtel to Chicago 9/30/60.(U)

RE: Feasibility of Special Coverage at Armory

Lounge, 74 jy Nest Roosevelt Road, Forest Park,
Illinois.

Enclosed herewith are three photographs of the
Armory Lounge taken in September, 1960. iy

Locat ion

The Armory ‘Lounge is a one story brick building”
located in a western suburb of Chicago adjacent to Oak Park,
Illinois. The immediate neighborhood is one of mixed commercial
and residential establishments, the residences being considered
middle class homes and apartment buildings. West Roosevelt
Road is one of the areas busier thoroughfares, and is heavily
trafficked: ‘by trucks and vehicles utilizing U.S. 30 and the .
Illinois toll road. system. Immediately across the street from
the Armory is the Naval Ordnance Plant and Naval Reserve Center,
a series of “buildings. ‘extending ap’ roximately two blocks long
employing | several hund VS

O wm Bureau (Enels. . Fn

1- Chicago :

 

" Approved: ——
a : Special Agent in Charge
 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10209-10384
RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-3171-74
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, CG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
- TITLE:
DATE: 10/04/1960
‘PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
SGI, SUR, ASSOC
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4 -
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 05/20/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :

INC A/T, ENV

147

 

 

Date:

$/7/2015

 

 
 

oe

=

 

a

CG 92-349

History and Relative Importance
to Hoodlum Activities -

The Armory Lounge is owned and operated by one CARMEN
FANELLI of 328 Wesley, Oak Park, Illinois, a white male,
approximately 60 years of age. He is considered a long time
acquaintance of SAM GIANCANA, JOSEPH AIUPPA, ANTHONY J. ACCARDO
and other hoodlums residing in the western suburbs of Chicago.
FANELLI at-one time was a bookmaker and small time hoodlum, and
has been associated with the Armory Lounge for approximately
ten years. Chicago informants have been reporting for some time
of the fact that frequent meetings of Syndicate hoodlums take

_Place at the Armory Lounge, which they refer to as the place"out

west". These meetings are presided over by GIANCANA when he is
in town, and in his absence by such lesser luminaries as WILLIAM
DADDANO, one of GIANCANA's lieutenants. CG 6343-C* has reported
conversations between MURRAY HUMPHREYS, FRANK FERRARO and others
wherein they have referred to meeting "out west" on matters of
importance. One neighborhood source, PCI GLADYS EBLE, owner

of an apartment building overlooking the Armory reports large
gatherings of "hoodlum type" individuals congregating on occasion
at this establishment. One she positively has identified as
Giancana .(U}

Bureau Agents, as recently as September, 1960, entered
the Armory on pretext, noted a large dinner party in progress,
attended by, among others, ANTHONY ACCARDO and JOSEPH P. GLINCO. (U)

Physical Description
of Building

The exterior of the Armory is of face brick,
approximately twenty-four feet in width and sixty feet in
length (deep). It is located on the intersection of a one way
street and the nearest building is a three story apartment
building located approximately sixty feet west of the Armory.

-2-

 

 

 
 

*. ° ‘ now
he : to. ant

CG 92-349

The space between the Armory and the apartment building is

taken up with an asphalt parking area suitable for about forty
vehicles. An alley runs east and west immediately to the rear v)
of the Armory, and is occupied by residential, one family homes.

 

. The interior of the Armory is divided into three
sections; bar, dining area, and private dining room, the latter
| being located to the rear of theestablishment. The dining
' area is relatively small, having accommodations for no more
iI than thirty persons. It contains six tables. The private
dining area is a room approximately fourteen by eighteen feet,
containing two tables, and is separated from the main dining room by
an accordian type door (U

Entrance to the building is gained either through the
front (facing Roosevelt Road), or into the main dining room
via an entrance way through the parking area. This entrance
is protected by a canopy,and requires gaining access through
two doors. There is a small (4 X 6') enclosed area between
the first and second doors. An additional exit is located to
the rear of the barred. [ the main dining room. This exit is

 

 

 

not used, and is barred.

On 10/3/60, a physical surveillance of the Armory
Lounge was conducted between the hours of 12:01 A.M. and 7:00 A.M
in order to ascertain the degree of traffic and possibilities
'of being observed in the event special coverage was attempted.
This surveillance revealed that there is considerable truck
traffic on West Roosevelt Road (U. S. 30) in the early morning
hours and it was also noted that a Forest Park, Illinois squad
car passes the lounge at a very slow speed approximately every
fifteen minutes. The Forest Park Police Force is commanded by
JOHN CORTINO, who has cooperated with the Bureau in the past,
however, he has been observed by: PCI EBLE in the Armory Lounge
on numerous occasions.and a remote possibility exists that there :
may be some association between the owner of the Armory Lounge
and Chief CORTINO, so that any contact with the Chief with |
relation to the Armory Lounge is not going to be attempted (Vv)

 

-3 5

 

 
