 

SC 2107

 

and ko

(see pare. 11 above)

‘- RUDTMAN wag born in ‘the UsSAs :
s couatrys + Housed $o be a violinist.
‘Radio Moscow, RUDIMAN announced for trai
Hethed-A wifo and child
_a’femily man, é
‘which, he mist have : to waat ho would have
had: in: the i * eae

¥

‘

22nd Oe

 

 

 

 
 

 

fie Sonn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coliectit

words should ve wadortined,, all “this tn an
excrutic vtdiag 3 re of Russian and Enslish.s ~ Even ytually
ADAHOV: lost 83, & pationce ay fold hor + that gho ‘hoa batter unde

idne tho ytOlo of hor soripts dn ved. ponoli und iba done with
Hance hox . : : :

lichen thon! aged about 453 ‘. Rather better”
éducat sad thant most of hig» ‘collesguesy aaployed by Radio Honoow
during @ Vigpon ‘time thoro; Ho a alyaye proudly: Claimed tha’
Party (VIADUCT doss not. imow
stands that ke roturmed” to he Usk

anes of iia > linerteans atts
a vinpuoe

; AS onbors “Wittle” of this man whom ho belie es
is st1211 0] fing ¢ a3 an ennouncer with Radio Hoscoire

This wag tho BBC cotrespondont: who spon} ome tio
‘Hoscowe', ‘VIADUCT believes that ho was born_ inthe Us Ks
i £ Armenian extractions’ About 944 or 1945 Jasoph ="
ADAMOV: dunt Produced VIADUCT to PUTADY. VEADUCT describes TUPARV
S-handsome and cult tured, speaking reasonably good Ruasians
Vianuer” knows that ADAMOV and IUDALVY woro close friends and th
they. met. fairly frequently privately. TUTARV “had a & car and on:
no oé8ssion he saw SUTAEVY picking up ADAMOV- cute ido the latter's
flat. onthe comorgor Gorkiy Strcote: -VIADUCT ocamaoa $ that there:
aay ‘havo. bedn nog ing significant in thie but’4t-wvas at about the
time that he > aigbolt vrs te lent spotted for the idee by | ADALOVe

When ViAbuon god nad Radio Moscow
Wag working as a “political analyser". ic Ne had pro~
viously eon Gniot: « of the Angio~subrican Sepa rumen’ bofors SILAPTROS |

: ‘ i
tame LO! Ww WES py ac far as VIADUCT. nous 4 born orn_in, the
pexfect I Ah with @ strong American accents
fle told VIADUGT that he naa peon onpioyed dn hatorg in the U.S6A
for a number of years and VIADUCT rateod that he’ shad then
migra od to. tho UsSeSe Re before the Ware"! ; :
ediun height,” Sadribh hair, Jewist
‘ond: active MAR y correct ‘and polite, but he gives the
ampressi on of being afraid. thas makes him cautious and he never
oxprasses & controversial opinions Ho survived the purges of :
1937. without boing arrested and one imagines he feels that the ~°
atwogphore of 11937 might racccur one of; these’ dayes - He is a,
hoy vex of tho Coke G as, . : oa

msolf up’ as’ a’ spect ist in U.Ss

literature. * ie ie ionser works fox Radio'’Moscowe! Ho wrotd a
book cu Mark Twain for which he was "Oundidate of Liter. ture",

 

 
 

Lon A §92-(44-USC--2107 Hote} .

 

 

 

8 member of the Union of Rovio’ ore and a lecturer at
‘tho Inst titute oF Iitereturs. articles on Amorioan '
literature to various journals. ¢
seian translators. :

WDELSORM. in ‘recent yoars at: the Writers :
use in Perodetiine, noar 2 Hosced and ab special showings | of US.»
eins babi) 4 eee eh

HENDERSON « was one. of “the team (shich inotuacd vEADUGe)
nt. te .tho Anglo-Anerican Pe Ooo stéging | camp’ in Odessa in

TNDRESOINE always rotused to ‘bo de om out on his. experiences |
in the z "Soha moroly stating that ho had worked with! Amtorge ol
VIADUCT imagines that he's too cuatious to apply to go abroad as
-& tourist. Although BES DELSOHN would de unlikely to rofuse to,
help the K.G.B.. 4: gettea « upen 1 he @ ap/ths opposite of a typical .
GB. mane: | :

» This narriase Subsoquantly also broke
s "daughter by hor first usbonds | Sha. sth1t announces
# Radio Hoscowe Done : : . oa!

' foortty & ats er‘ the war KNENIQ, + oho was living BS an enigre
in Fray EO, voluntarily returmmeéd to the. UoS.SeRe | : He'was nephew >
of. - thojfvel1—Inom Soviet comic actor of that 1 nomé. . He is a rather
weak Yooking man of French/Jewish appearance. | He is, however, :
cultured, and speaks . first-class French _ a ee ve

+ f . *
MMIN started ‘york as an announcer and writ sor in Radio Moscowe
Bio or three ¥ -yoars. later ho baceme Lecal cor respondent for some foreign
newspaper. | VIADUCT, who met KURNIIW on various occasi ons, got the -
impression that KSESUIN was now gntirely sovietised and trusted by:
the asuthoritiog.: Ho avove 2 Voliconagen = - an unusual fact itself,

yuk if 7" Pe :

4 f <LI, 3 an ola  poturnod enigro, who
aC reespontent £ fox ries vation’.  (SuIan MGIN's wife was friendly
sie ae widow, - heneo Viabu CT g sequaintance wit oh ‘the  SUMIOLINe»)

a isl

T shay teat

@ vrapucr “coments that IGQNIy is. a ‘Nery complicatea person”
g have some sort of * Special 2 relationship with the Soviet :

dd
main . Wewish. “"Whén VIADUCT was in Radio Koscow
Yan ed. Sitorial job in the ‘English lenguage news peper ‘Moscow: —
VIADUCT Was.sent to SANTOR Fon, Inglish lessons. Unprinoipied
 

USC 2107. Hote).

jnglowineriean Derertmont of I Radio Moscowe:: Slo ‘is aivory
intelligent Jew who keeps his thoughts to himself, Part:
of his ability lies in his maripulation' of office’ ‘poriticse
Ho has plenty of initiative end it was nis idea - to sond::.
VIADUCT. to isit: the Anglo-tmericen P.O... ‘Staging Cexap” “an
Odessa and slso to.accompany Mrs. Churchill on ;
the-Crimoa,: ‘While still working with Radio M

SHAPIRO married a Russian Jewess from the Sp. is.

They are still L married and have childron, ,

 

 

 

 

 

fime after the ond
f the War, “SE BIRO went 0 york. under VARGA .3 tho’ coonond ot, | a,
sho . was edit tor of the magazine "World Economy arid Fost.
poli tica’e - there is siso an ins titut te of this , nae | undor

 

 

: -yaapuer: ‘Gaon : mot x
OScoW! land: knows Of. no evidence that’ SE APIRO. is la
worker. 5 SHAPIRO is.a.close friend of MihatXt,
m-sontributer to “Tavestia®
d who is the right hend.o EAD,

 

wth Pichia dark Armenian Looks.
(Ho was bora

ved ba Ondo for a. “puntbor of 5 “years y
sade Mission | there. He is a o polented man 1 vhose.

the Un miicd Kingdon ne tho t3. he He iso high class -
nterprotor in Fnelish - probably the bost. in: Moscow. —

interprets at. Porty Congresses end other Amportant functions ;

and ‘still + works ao swell Ain Radio Noscote

 

When nia mother died ‘soz :
éirt working in tho Anglo-\mericen Somewhat of Radio. ‘

Her namo is CTE. dugeEDAMO v aly ways.” call 1s hor.
Jenni fore : = a bo tetpe ;

 

     

: “yispecr dis convinced that ADAMOV is al
“for the. K.G. B. > -Ho is virtually certain 7
inally- ‘telont-spottod him ond his suspicion wero later:

confirmed when VIADUCT's cose offioor sx VEC GOROV,| tolé him. not?
to associate with him. 1 ' thinks URGE ADAMOV's wite
probably also works pert-time ‘for the KGB. Despite this,
it would seen that ADAMOV is x : a tras ted since he has
on numerous occasions tried % 7 2 but hes never been
given peraission. ~ was onee aven refused perniss sion to go
to CagchosLovakie.. “ADA veo told VIADUCT that iis namo
hed on one occasion. come up to go to tae U.S.A.) as en inters
preter with some ‘golegation. _' He bad boon called to, the ;
Poroign Travel Commission of the Central Comat © toe and had \
filled up: the usuel: questionnaire» Hoe was then yo-interviowed

and. asked why he hag stated thet nis father
“j6/}29

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32114080 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

: AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Identification Form

Agency Information

FBI
124-10002-10454

DL

100-10461-7477

 

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

10/22/1963
6

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret

4

Withhold

04/07/1994

INDEFINITE

DATE LAST PAGE LEFT SIDE

 

v9.1

DoclId: 32114080 Page 1.

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sy re &

. od bn hek ‘ i

DANO had to confoss that
xd not wished to prejudice his |
anying tho delegation. - Hie application :

VIADUCT. gonsiders. that” ther eis

i ehance thet ADAHOW would: try to defect i2,
‘allowed ‘to-leayé the U.S,S.R. :He has no
to: be, very, devoted to his.

side the Sovict, Union,
possi, yt in the U. Ke 4 He. served | in the Soviet: ‘rny Guring.
tHe” War ‘an and—casesto-n work: in Radio Moscow in about, 1945. °
10, alvays worked like a dynemo. Apart trem Radio Hoscow
he later, did work for Sovexportfilm, Hosfilm and- the Sovie
Infornotion Bureau. : He further acted as a froe dence

: BRLETSKIY is a. nd gh class intoxproter’ aha he and:
{OV are ‘probably two of the best simul. taneous interpret ters
in- ‘nglish. ' BELIVSKIY has slso acted as Antorpretor for .
V ‘ ‘tions going -Sproede . Ch in A

- BULISKIY ‘is maricd with ‘childrens’ “ BELTTSeLY’ s

ohief interest in life is earning money. | VIADUCT and: .
MOV heve discussed hin in tho past and “poth agreed. thas.

SLI@SKIY is not. interostod in girls, drink| or other n oral
4 He is only. interested in mon ’ .

: - Yhon VES DUC! as cultivating Cecily Gs8oru: .
0 Australien Embassy, BELITSKIY onca met v Sn Ci in the ¢

‘street when he vas with his ledy.- After shat occurrence,
BELITSKIY wes: elveys: ‘a dit tile xy of VIZpU ICT. VIADUCT - Lo
“considers thit BEGTOSKTY solf=cent rede. ang. selfish but. he,
dees not. think he’ wouldebe a candidate for defection.

Vz eDUCE has also von Sfed in the past whether! DELEISKTY, hes o

coe
we he gy!

T aemewi cmmtia eran seat

GN 4s half Lntvion and halt British. He was
‘either ; His mother at present
‘aves in Ripa.s—Duri rhe ws an announcer for Radio -
scow byt fA ADAMOV ellwa ays Claimed that his pronunciation was
‘aultyss He later became a tencher in the Institute of
2 Language 8. He also wrote a dissertation on *
CIrCe -. He StLL oceasi onally announces for. Radio ©
tis: ‘Prosoat age is epproxctnately BAe |
Lent anc. closed pardon. He is
#11 and hondsonee’ He ph m ¥adio # Hoscon, but
she later divorced him. : % abox ‘
128 disillusioned end unhs my, he hates the KGB . “and vi
§0 over to the West if he could. ‘He is, however, u unlikely |
“to, be allowed | to. brovole. -_ es : :

4

oo ‘tt ‘vas: HISYON who introduced Wrapuer tol Vaya
DAK, who 1 fas _thea used by the K.G.B. egainst/Suh
WHISTON cooled off aftox this
Three or four yen rs 8092 WHIS(ON: told viabuce
that ho ‘ould’ dik arty, . ce hel ;

 

 

 
 

 

“This English gir uscd to work in the Saviet” -
: aa ‘London. . She marxicd MAISKIY's Soviet aviver,
0 took hor to Moscovwe She was token on by, Radso Hoscou
ond became considered a great expert in. brondcastings
put out the story that she had previously worked in .th
DAMOV, cleimed: that this was nonsense.: “She is ambitious
has: _parned. good’ money & .s interpreter and ‘translatore.-
children, «=! VIADUCT thinks that,
English Department (the Anglo~
Moscow has now been split up)e :
VEADUGE ine Deon told “thot ‘she. has visited her parents in
wor, MAMENA still gives ithe. impression
fi tish, in charactere!!' VIADUCT does not imo
holds. :

; was"a, cypher gush in the, pun Se Bi ' She
fauced by a Singer by the name of capsntin reece DUCT si: ¢
9 onts: that LAPSE TEN wes obviously working to a KeGeB.
in the :
Posi is in foct ¢ a “fekond: af £
About the only occasion when V UCP mot BUGHA ms when “he
s giving 2 a » broadeast telk in 1954 or 1955¢ [ As for 05°":
forcing | in Radio Moscow. ,

things aro orgy nhsea” ‘ond nives the impress
‘unhepoy person @hpparcntly she occasional:
 hér-parents, 0h the other hand she almost corhan:
good moneys’ girrnue Cf has no ‘infomastion on her pres
private rolgtionship to LAFSHIN but he comaents that LaPSHIn
wil certa; ny have recoived a flat. and a@ car in seturn Fox

Lishmon who was: working in Radio:
goo during the latter “yout of the ymre- Ho acted as
owncer but it. vas genofally a accep ted. that|he had an |

F i lie“ aade'nc attempt to try. to. speak

“He marric#s girl: student from tha Taculty of.”
mronslatore ‘of then netituto of Literature under the Union =:
of Soviet: Writeng HARLEY who vas in his* eatly 70° s:at the
time returned Es tte U.K. in4916 or 194.7.) VIADUCT mows :
no further defhits’ other than he was: tho father of one or
MOTO | chile

his is a womnn who must now bo "60's.
aged as onnoucer on Radic Noscow for ho Te st otwonty ¢
 ONTIS UCT Goos ? not a] ishe originally °
from but when’ he imew hor at ie i 7, She was living
adopts2, two young Russian orphang, whom ‘she
“1 2 J £02 snd-obvioushy si i :
Re eS grew inte young band ts end geve, her ‘endless.
srouble. °° MANET c is big hearted: but although she % slkos
hers fi seriously io & source of emusemont to her friends.
Buring VIE aot oe Moscow she becane imomm 28
R a. Emmet be She- > ettendcd G neoting :

 
