 

 

HW 50529

CONFIDENTIAL

 

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

C ~ The removal of the lock-out cards is requested by those individuals
having authority to do so = generally an Adjudicator in FO or a Senior Adju-
dicator in DO. In cases where a look-out card is requested for loss of citi-
genship, lack of citizenship, or any case where there ig ne time limit placed

look-out card the request is made when evidence.is received warranting

  

| reversal of the Adjudicator's prior decision, In stich cases the Adjudicator
marks the refusal sheet “disregard", indicates the reason for removal, and
signs. his name. The file and refusal sheet are forwarded to the Clearance
Section where the card is removed by the Chief of the Clearance Section or
someone designated by him. Prier to the adoption of this procedure there

was no formal record kept of the reason for removal of the look-out card

on the refusal sheet: and the requesting officer did not sign his name on

the sheet. The refusal sheet was merely marked "disregard" and forwarded te
the Clearance Section for removal of the look-out card,

“With regard to the removal of lock-out cards requested by outside agencies
this is accomplished when the requesting agency asks that it be removed. In
cases where the card has a set expiration date the Clearance Section removes
it automatically at the end of the period or shortly thereafter,

“Look~out ¢ards requested by OF are removed by the Clearance Section when
it is notified that the loan has been paid in full. OF sends a monthly list
of persons whe have paid in full to the Clearance Section for removal of the
lock-out cards.

Procedures in the Clearance Section dictate that the actual removal of
the: card shall be accomplished by the Chief of the Section himself or his
designee,

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId:32261722 Page 9

 
 

| i

 

 

 

 

HW 50529

 

DoclId: 32281722

THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

Page 10

 
 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
: OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) indexes the refusal sheet;

(2) places one look-out card in the look-out file as
a temporary card and the other is stored for fu- -
ture forwarding to prepare an IEM card, (When
the IEM card is received it replaces the tempor-
ary card and becomes the permanent card).

(3) When these steps have been performed the indivi-
dual performing them signs the refusal sheet.

(4) The passport file is then forwarded to the Pass-
port Office files for storage or to a requesting
individual, © :

_The indexing of the refusal sheet consists of the following: The indi-
vidual's name is typed along the right-hand margin of the refusal sheet by a
clerk designated to do so and,under the old system, the name preceded by the
number 130. Also, prior to the adoption of the current refusal sheet where
the signature of the clerk receiving the file and refusal sheet within the
Clearance Section is required, the indexing was the only evidence the re-
fusal sheet was received and a look-out card prepared by the Clearance Sec-
tion, Moreover, the current refusal sheet was not in effect at the time
of the OSWALD look-out cards. The number 130 was used as part of the State
Pepartment's filing system, Under that system numbers 130 to 149 were
assigned te the Passport files and 130 denoted the files which vere filed
by an individual's name and not by subject matter; however, approximately
two years ago the. Department's files were decentralized and the numbers
were dropped, : :

Pricer to this current procedure the system genérally required the re-—
questing officer to execute a refusal sheet and forward it, with the file,
to the Clearance Section where a clerk indexed the refusel sheet and pre-
pared a look-out card, Under both systems if there was no request to re-
turn the file to a particular individual it would be forwarded to’ the Pass-
port files for filing. a :

Under the present procedures there is a record kept of the names of all
the persons taking action on the refusal sheet with regard to the look-out
eard, Under both systems it is assumed that all proper action will be taken
‘during the ordinary course of business., However, under neither system, pre-
sent or prior, is there any one particular individual vested with the respon-
sibility of checking to determine that all the ministerial ateps required in
processing of a lock-out card have been complied with, :

~bo
CONFIDENTIAL

 

DocId: 32261722 Page 3

 
 

 

HW 50529

 

CONFIDENTIAL
OSWALD, Lee Harvey

the request is forwarded to the Special Consular Services (SCS) of

_.the Department for determination. If the loan is approved, SCS so
‘advises the overseas post and the loan is granted, (It is not cus-

_tomary for SCS to advise the Passport Office of their reasons for
‘granting the repatriation loan), When the loan is granted, the.

Consular Officer forwards a copy of the invoice to OF, on some oc-
easions the invoice would indicate the individual's date and place
of birth and name, and on others only the name. These invoices
would then be forwarded to the Clearance Section of the Passport
Office and acted as a uest for a look-out card, However, if
the loan did not exceed $50 and did not contain a date and place ~

of birth a card would not be prepared and it would be returned to
OF, As a result, therefore, when an invoice did not indicate a
- date and plece of birth OF discontinued sending them to the Clear-
_.-ance Section. When an invoice did not contain the required infor-
"mation the Clearance Section did prepare a look-out card and insert
-' it into the look-out file.

Under current procedures the loan application is sent with

_ the invoice to OF by the overseas post and the date, place of

birth and the amount of the loan are readily available to OF,
The Clearance Section maintains the requirement of a date and
place of birth in order to insure positive identification when

“a search is made and avoid possible embarrassment to the Depart-

ment by erroneous identification, Further, under current pro-

“ eedures OF prepares its own IBM look-out card and forwards it to
“the Clearance Section for insertion in the look-out file.

B = The Clearance Section of the Passport Office is that area where the

look-out file is maintained, When one of the areas under (A) above requests
a look-out card' through the preparation of a refusal sheet, under current pro-
cedures, the following steps are taken:

j
(a) The Senior Adjudicator or the Adjudicator preparing the

"refusal sheet signs the sheet authorizing the request;

(bv) a clerk within the Adjudicator's area prepares the look-
out card in duplicate, signs the refusal sheet and forwards the .
heet and the duplicate cards to the Clearance Section; .

(c) the clerk within the Clearance Section receiving the

.: fille with the refusal sheet and look-out cards performs the
os ; followings —

DocId:32261722 Page 7

 
 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES:

A- Generally the request for the preparation of a lock-out card comes
from the Passport Office's (a) Domestic Operations Division, (b) Foreign
Operations Division, (¢) Legal Division, and (d) the Department's Office
of Finance.

(a) Domest: ions Division: Basically the Domestic
Operations Divis handles all applications for passports
within the United States, The application is generally received
in a passport agency, where it is reviewed by an adjudicator te
determine, among other things, whether or not it has been proper-
ly executed, and whether the applicant is seeking te travel in
restricted areas. Assuming the application does not indicate
restricted travel and that it is properly executed, the appli-
eant's name and date of birth are teletyped to Washington, D. C.,
where it is checked through the Clearance Section toe determine
whether or not a leok-out card exists. If one dees not exist _

the passport is issued routinely, if a card does exist the is-
suance of the passport is held in abeyance and the applicant's
passport file is reviewed prier to the issuance of the passport,
In cases where the application indicates a prior passpert has .
been issued and that it is potentially valid the agency requests
the applicant to present it for examination. If the passport has
‘expired the applicant is not. requested to present it. When an
application indicates a desire to travel in countries for which
there are travel restrictions and the applicant persists in his ©
desire, a letter of explanation is requested and is forwarded to
the Department toegather with the application for determination,
‘Farther, applications which raise a question of citizenship, loss
of citizenship, or a possibility of fraud are forwarded to the
- Department for decision, When such a question of citizenship

. arises it is referred to a Senior Adjudicator who makes a deter-
mination. If it is decided there is prima facie evidence indi~

. cating a lack of citizenship or a loss of citizenship, a leok-
out card is requested by preparing a refusal sheet. The pur-
pose of the look-out card is primarily to serve as a "flag" or-
‘an "alert" to the Passport Office, In the event a passport is
subsequently applied for it will not be issued routinely, but

_@ review of the applicant's file by a Senior Adjudicator will
then be made to determine whether or not a passport may be. duly
issued, -

    

~j~
. CONFIDENTIAL

HW 50529

DocId: 32261722 Page 5

 
 

 

NS

CONFIDENTIAL

weg

OSWALD, Leé Harvey

 

) Foreign Operations Division: The Foreign Operations Division

. (FO) receives for action, matters arising overseas relating to pags—

port and nationality matters. However, it should be noted that only
"problem" cases are referred to FO for decision (8 FAM 245.6 speci~

. fies what cases "mist" be referred to the Department "for decision") ;

approximately 93 to 95% of all cases arising overseas are handled
by the overseas post concerned. In cases referred to the Department,
if the adjudicator determines that there has been a loss of citizen-

' ship or a failure to acquire citizenship a refusal sheet is prepared

requesting a look-out card, Also, a card may be requested in any

case where the adjudicator desires one to act as an "alert" or "flag",

That is, although there is no legal basis under existing regulations
and statutes for refusing or limiting a passport, it is felt, none-
theless, in the adjudicator's judgment, that a passport should not be
subsequently issued routinely, This "flag" or "alert" insures, at

least, a review of the individual's passport file prior to the issu-
ance of a passport. Decisions for an "alert" or "flag" are based on
the adjudicator's experience and no definite criteria are established,

(c) Legal Division: The Legal Division of the Passport Office
is composed of the Legal Advisory Branch (PT/LAD) and the Security
Branch (PT/LS). Generally PT/LAD is concerned with look-out cards

_in cases which involve passport frauds, imposters, child custo

cases and requests from other agencies for look-out cards, PI/LS
is primarily concerned with Commmist Party members, Commmist sym-

_pathizers, persons who have violated travel limitations, ete. This
-, Branch receives reports from other agencies, which are disseminated.
by INR. The majority of the reports come from the FBI with a small

portion from the CIA, (INR records indicate that some 350 or more
reports are forwarded to the Passport Office each month). PI/LS
reviews the reports and if they indicate the individual is a Com

. : mnist Party member or a member of a Front Organization which im-
\- plies strongly the individual is a member of the Commnist Party,

a look-out. card is requested through the preparation of a refusal

‘sheet. :

(a) of: f Finance: Within the Department the Office of
Finance (OF) also requests look-out ecards when an individual has
been granted a repatriation loan. The procedure requires that

- when an individual executes an application for a repatriation loan

~ho- -
CONFIDENTIAL

 

HW 50529

DocId: 32261722 Page 6

 
 

 

 

. awe
< 3 ~ oe

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY

 

FORM DS-
4-26-56

~TCASE CLASSIFICATION

OSWALD, Lee Harvey 7 1A.26.00

FELD OFFICE DATE REPORTED DATES INVESTIGATED REPORTING AGENT
: June 24 to
Washington July 3 27 1964, July 23, 1964 Louis C. Kachulis

SYNOPSIS

A. procedural study of the look-out card system of the Passport Office
was conducted with specific reference being made to the procedures followed
in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case, including a security survey of the Clearance
Section, The detalis: are. set forth below.

+ CLOSED -

REFERENCE: (et puotmmetions fro from SY¥/Headquarters dated June 4, 1964
Mr; Berry
Memorandum from Mr, G. Mervin Gentile to Mr. Henri G, Grignon
dated dune 2, 1964
Memorandum from Mr, A. Schwartz to Mr. G, Marvin Gentile dated
May 20, 1964

” DETAILS

Pursuant to the authority in the referenced oral instructions and memo-
vranda, and a conference held on Jume 23, 1964, attended by Mr. Charles pisces
Mr, Richard Frank, Mrs, Frances Knight, Mr, Edvard Hickey, Mr, Robert D
Jomson, Mr. G. Marvin Gentile and the writer, a procedural study of the
look-out card system of the Passport Office was conducted,

 

APPROVED 2 DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE

DATE RECEIVED

(Special Agent in Sarge)
COPIES REFERRED 3 - Headquarters
1 - WFO file (64-1475)

REVIEWED BY AGENT SUPERVISOR

 

(Date) (Initials) _ : :
: Excluded from automatic
CONFIDENTIAL | Gownsrading and
declassification

THIS REPORT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND ITS
CONTENTS MUST NOT BE DISCLOSED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.
GPO 891584

 

 

 

HW 50529 DocId:32281722 Page 2
 

 

Sg : ow ; Date: 05/31/95
. ; ; : Page: 26
eo . : JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

, AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS
RECORD NUMBER : 1191000310122

RECORDS SERIES :
DS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 39-141-122

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM : : The Deparment of State postpones the release of
TO: farts of this document under the Provisions of the JFK
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
TITLE : (PL 102-526)

ROI
Reviewedon $2@ee 22 we)
DATE : 07/27/64

PAGES 34 Postponed Under____ @ C3)

SUBJECTS
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

oo

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : &
RESTRICTIONS : 3,
; CURRENT STATUS : X
| DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/31/94

a

OPENING CRITERIA ;
CONSULAR AFFAIRS, FBI, CIA REVIEW — COMPLETED

COMMENTS :

CONSULAR AFFAIRS INTEREST : 2s l€é -~B
FBI ok to release MAM Crxceand / q

CIA ok to release
CA release in part

[R] - ITEM RESTRICTED

 

HW 50529 DocId:32281722 Page 1
 

 

 

HW 50529

OSWALD, Lee Harvey.

The lock-out card process can be divided into two categories; (a) one
which can be referred to as the judicial aspect and (b) the ministerial as-
pect. The first category concerns itself with the basis or criteria used
in determining whether or not a card shall be requested... The second cate-
gory concerns itself with the mechanical steps involved in preparing a
lock-out. card from the time a decision to request a card is made until the
filing of the card, Since the purpose of this study is primarily concerned
with the procedures in handling the leok-out cards, emphasis will be placed
on the ministerial aspect of the look-out card process with reference to
the judicial aspect primarily fer reasons of background, Furthermore, any
recommendations at the conclusion of this report, which can be said to fall
within the judicial realm of the process, are offered not as criteria for
refusing a passport, but only as a means of avoiding the routine issuance
of a-passport to an individual with a questionable background. Moreover,
the study was confined to inquiries to determine how the look-out cards
are handled in a typical "OSWALD" case and specifically the procedures
followed in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case itself, This study is broken dow
into the following categories: (1) the general overall procedures, (2)
the Lee Harvey OSWALD case, (3) security survey of the Clearance Section;
(4) recommendations, and (5) summary of SY¥/Files having derogatory infor-
mation relating te personnel assigned to the Clearance Section.

~2-+ |
2- i

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId:32261722 Page 3

 
 

 

THE GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES

\

HW 50529 DocId:32281722 Page 4

 

 
