© cONDENTAL = =

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also Known as
MINUIEMEN —
FORT WORTH, TEXAS

 

* Ray", who appears to be the highest group official
in the. area, is speaking more of retired General Edwin Walker's
guidance and leadership of the organimation. He speaks in
near reverent terms concerning Wa}ker.. Dallas T-1 ‘advised
that "Ray" was arranging a meeting ‘with: General Walker for
him, but after further consideration, decided it would not .
be appropriate at this time, because Walker becomes suspicious
of those who too quickly attempt to meet him. "Ray" advised
that it would be wiser to wait until the General requests

to see him or until he had been in the organization a longer
period, of time.

Dallas T-1 further stated that William Seals of
_Houston, Texas’, formerly of Fort Worth, has not been recently
.in contact with the group in Fort Worth.

 

Dallas T-1 advised he had no information that the
group had yet established a local storehouse or arsenal for
weapons and that the mmbership and leaders in the local
group have remained unchanged.

CONFAENTIAL

 

HW 53074 Docld:32335666 Page 5
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEST ATION
Dallas, Texas

March 26, 1965

 

File No.

Patiopaticegpr

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also known 23
MINUTEMEN

FORT WORTH, TEXAS

The following information was furnished on November 19
and 24, 1964, by Dallas T-1:

Dallas T-1 advised that he is presently a member of

a group referred to as the "Minutemen" and "American Underground"

and has been so since approximately 1962. Dallas T-1 advised

that the organization is nationwide with approximately fifteen
eae to thirty members in Tarrant County. Dallas T-1 stated that :
m ’ -¢he name of the organization as such has only been used twice |

-im two years and that proper names are seldom, if ever, used ;

-and that this makes it very difficult to determine identities

of members. Dallas T-1 advised that the following are currently

members of the organization:

 

Arthur Pollard, 2707 Berryhill Drive, Fort Worth, Texas

 

Otto (Duke) Koling and Shirley Bob Renshaw, 2341 <7
Harris Lane, Haltom City, Texas, who lives with mo '
’ Koling. .

Bill Seals,. smployed at Montgomery Ward's and re-
cently transferred to Montgomery Ward's, Houston, Texas

Van Pollard, 3421 Hanger, Fort Worth, Texas

   

ent contains ‘neither recommendations nor
BI. It is the property of the
It.and its j

i

conclusions of the FE
FBI and is loaned to your agency.
contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency. .
. ; . . . cy SO a om y . = 4.
i 7 | _LOS- 1280-210

HW 53074 DoclId:32335866 Page 2?

 

 

 

 

 
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015

 

 

 

 

yo}

HW 53074 Docld:32335666 Page 1 18

 

Identification Form
Agency Information Feleased under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
AGENCY: FBI Slicction Act of 1992 (44 Usc
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90129-10257 Rid? Note). Case#:NWw 53074
RECORD SERIES: DL
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 105-1280-210
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
TITLE :

DATE: 03/26/1965

* PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
MINUTEMEN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 09/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : LHM
 

a

laa

ie

,

HW 53074

 

MXNUTEMEN

FORT WORTH, TEXAS

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also known as \
f
a a ee ARE CL |

Closely associated with the organization and perhaps |
a member is Richard W. Dawson, who lives on Highway 121 on !
the outskirts of Fort Worth and who has formerly lived in the
neighborhood of 2820 Northwest 29th in the early 1950's. Dallas
T-1 advised that an attorney whom members of the group have
been advised to contact if "they get into trouble", is W. Alfred
Windor, with offices in the Ellis Builéing in Fort Worth.
Dallas T-1 advised he does not know wkether or not Windor
is a member of the organization. x

. Dallas T-1 advised the primary purpose of the
organization is to fight against the present Federal control
of national and local Governments and to fight for "States'
rights". The group is supposedly national in origin and
believes that the Federal Government is in the process of
selling out to the communists and that the group is the last
line of defense against this sellout. The group secondarily
is racial in that it believes in white supremacy. Dallas T-1
advised that the organization suffered a severe setback
because of the assassination of President Kennedy but now is .
attempting a full-scale reorganization. The group recruits
basically from those who do not have criminal records and is
organized in such a manner that no one is supposed to know
the names of other members in the organization. This is to
prevent effective infiltration by the Government. Dallas T-1
advised that the group has no immediate plans for action,
but that several times locally this group has determined to
act on their own and this action) has been curtailed because
of orders relayed from higher authority in the organization.
These higher authorities are unknown to Dallas T-1, except
that a person by the name of Ray (last name unknown) at the.
ranch in the vicinity of Venus, Texas, appears to be in contact
with the group's organizational leaders. Ray is described
as a personal and clove friend of retired General Edwin Walker
and about one and one-half to two years ago was apparently
implicated in some manner in the burming of a newspaper in the
area. of Midlothian, Texas. Ray is also apparently a warehouse
supervisor in Dallas.

Dallas T-1 also advised he has been recently con-
tacted by a man whom he does not know but who apparently lives

in the Fort Worth area, and this unknown male advised Dallas
T~1 to disassociate himself from the small group he is now

coven

Docld:32335866 Page 3
© CONFIDENTIAL wo.

AMERICAN ‘UNDERGROUND, also known as
_MINUFEMER - |
FORT WORTH, TEXAS

 

attached to for the apparent purpose of moving into a position
of more prominence: in the organization. Dallas T-1 advised
that the small group with which he has been associated is. the
lowest level in the organization and that their primary
purpose is to do the "dirty work". :

. Dallas T-1 stated that the group is also prepared,
in the event of a Negro uprising in the Fort Worth area, to
take action against various Regro leaders including Dr. Flint,
Dr. Fleming and Dr. Ransom, and a Fort Worth hoodlum named
‘Hadison:Hogan, who is-apparently a Nation of Islam leader
in the Fort Worth area, -

Dallas T-1 advised thatthe only overt action tenta-
tively planned for the ‘winter months is that the effect of
a .30 caliiber..rifle on power transformers in the area may be
tested. Dallas T-1 further stated that the group apparently
has.a contact with an individual in northeast’ Texas who goes
by- the name of "South" and that this contact may be utilized
in the raiding of a northeast Texas armory during the winter
months. The primary interest is obtaining mortars and mortar
ammunition and automatic weapons; therefore, Dallas T-1
believes that the armory would probably be of a tank or
infantry group. : . :
a Dallas T-1 advised that the group locally is \
attempting to gain control of the Panther City Motorcycle
Club for the purpose of gaining land apparently owned by this
club, in the area of Lake ‘Arlington, Texas, and thereafter
selling this land and using the monies therefrom for purchases . {
of the group. {

 

Dallas T-1 advised that: it has been learned the group '
has organizations in Stephenville, San Angelo, Italy and =
Brownwood, Texas. Dallas T-1 further advised that Arthur,
Pollard has in the past made trips to Alabama, Wyoming,
Montana, California, and that the group has a contact with
an individual by the name of Jim Scott in Kansas City. Dallas
| y-1 advised that he has seen pamphlets from national Minutemen
; headquarters; but that these dealt primarily with the fighting
1 of any National Firearms Act which would involve licensing of

private weapons. .

 

$
i

 

 

 

i

HW 53074 Docld:32335666 Page 4

 
