 

 

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

. : PBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)

. {
. |
Vig — —__" Bifority of Wathod of Nailing) STE
(Pyiority or Method 9. Mailing)’ 1

t ate _ ore os 17 Fy

oe ee ee ee ne eS

CG 100-3286),

Dear President Jones:

I am a member of the Chicago Branch and voted for
you. I know of your troubles with the Communists. I want
Communists out of the Branch. Yesterday,.a Branch member
saw me and asked me to vote for a list of people to go
to our National Convention in New York. I thought the dele-
gates were to be elected on May 22. This person said the
list is already made up. I saw the list and I think some
of them are Communists. Two names I remember are Davis and
a woman named Meyer. I am sure you don't want them in our
Branch. The person told me that the real leaders are Bullock
and Cohen and they have 75 votes already. They tell me
Reverend Griffin is supposed to run this thing but others
are behind hin.

I will be there on May 22 to vote against them.

God bless you.

An old time branch member who
used to be in the Communist Party
and has seen the light.

 

 

Approved: —_ Sent MOP
Special Agent in Charge

HW 55280 Doold: 32983672 Page

__ — __

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

     

‘PD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

CG 100-3286),

Expeditious consideration is requested for the
above in view of the Convention delegate election meeting
of May 22. The Bureau is assured that this counterintelligence
item can be handled with full security to the Bureau.
Further, that should it succeed, and it is believed JONES,
through his organizational efforts will make it succeed,
the counterintelligence item would serve as a great defeat
for the OP.

AUERBACH

Approved: — Sent
Special Agent in Charge

 

 

HW 55280 Doold:32989672 Page if

 

 

 
 

 

 

  

 

P /  pp-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

PBI

Date:

 

(Type in plain text or code)
(Priority or Method of Mailing) I

CG 100-3286),

It is felt that a counterintelligence gain that
will hurt the CP can be had with complete security insofar
as the Bureau is concerned and the following is suggested:

That Chicago be permitted to prepare a letter for
anonymous mailing to THEODORE A. JONES, President of the
Chicago Branch, NAACP, at the earliest possible date to make
him aware of the existence of this organized faction as
well as to the existence of the slate of candidates backed
by the group of individuals in opposition to the present
policies and leadership of the national and Chicago Branch,
NAACP.

This letter will be written in longhand in the
language of an individual who would be a member of the
NAACP.

The following proposed letter is submitted for
Bureau approval:

 

Approved: Sent OM Per TE hey

Special Agent in Charge

HW 55280 Doold:32985672 Page 8

 

 

 
 

NW 55280 pocra: s29aSR99itlAgent in Charge

 

   
   
    
  
  
   
 
   

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) ~ * @
. .

PBI

Date:

. (Type in plain text or (0 1 i
on :
CON IAL,

(Priority or Method of Mailing) |

Transmit the following in

 

CG 100-3286),

  
 
    
   
  
         
     
   
       
       
   
   
 
 
       
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   

at the meeting it will sweep the election of delegates to
the National Convention and this in turn will open the door
for a sweep of the 12/59 elections for the leadership of the
Chicago Branch.

  

Observations and Proposals

Reliable informants have reported that the strength
of the CP in the leadership of the NAACP, Chicago Branch,
today is at its lowest ebb. Within the past several weeks
the CP fraction for work within the NAACP has been working
intensively and diligently to organize and to broaden its
strength in the leadership of the Chicago Branch of the
JAACP by defeating JONES as well as to increase its strength
in or at least change the leadership of the National Office
of the NAACP. If the Co-ordinating Committee objective of
election of its slate of delegates from the Chicago Branch
to the National Convention is successful, it will result in
a major accomplishment of CP organizational efforts in the
Negro field in that the NAACP in Chicago alone has approxi-
mately 20,000 members.

  

With these facts in mind and in considering that
THEODORE A. JONES is an intelligent and able leader with a
political machine of Congressman WILLIAM DAWSON to back him
up, it is felt that if he were put to notice of the existence
of this caucus and slate he could defeat the CP in its
efforts to attempt to get control of. thé Chicago Branch and
also of its efforts to gain greater influence in the national
picture of the NAACP. As indicated previously as late as
4/29/59 when JONES visited this office, he was unaware of

any organized resistance to his leadership although he
recognized individual dissatisfaction among the members as

a result of their statements at Branch meetings.

4 -

Approved: ee Sent LM Per

 

 
 

 

y FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) | .

Transmit the following in

     
 

(Type in plain text or codg)

Via

CG 100-3286),

members, socialists and other Negro nationalist type
individuals. For the past several months this group has
continued to organize opposition to the JONES and present
national leadership of the NAACP. Meetings have been held
in the Hyde Park, North Side and West Side areas of Chicago
and these meetings are surreptitiously held without the
sanction of the Chicago Branch NAACP leadership and unknown
to this leadership. '
WFORM ANT
In early 5/59, {ec 065-8 lattended a meeting between
(ciavpe LIGHTFOOT, Illinois District Chairman, and PETTIS
poaryor PERRY, following the last N&C meeting of the CP. At this
peter~o \ meeting CG 6265-S, a CP member and also a member of the left
as wing faction in the NAACP, LIGHTFOOT, and PERRY agreed to
wore | dave lieison of left forces between Chicago, Los Angeles, and
Tevts @ {it New York in the matter of nominations of delegates to the
i mational NAACP convention scheduled for 7/59 and to defeat
current leaderships in the various NAACP Branches j

On h/29/59 THEODORE A. JONES visited the Chicago
Office andjreiterated his anti-Communist policies with regard
to the governing of the Chicago Branch NAACP and was
confident that. the Communists had been defeated. During
this interview!JONES gave no indication of having ‘mowledge
of the Co-ordinating Committee of the NAACP. He was quite
confident of his ability to keep Communists out of the Chicago
Branch NAACP and indicated that while he would not run for re-
| election in 12/59 he has selected a well known Negro business
i executive and anti-Communist to succeed him and is confident
| of this individual's election. He indicated, however, that —
: a group of individuals whom he named were causing trouble
in the Branch and that he suspected them as being Communists.

 

This office, while referring him to public sources,
advised him of the Bureauts position regarding dissemination
of information concerning individuals,‘

Approved; _._ Sent LM Per
Special Agent in Charge

NW 55280 Doclid:329859672 Page 5

 

 

 

 

 
 

~ 1

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) '

4 a ;
. !

. “ I!
= . FBI

|
(
[
[

Date:

Transmit the following in

 

_ (Type in plain text or code)

  
  
 
 
 

BEAR ore a
Via —_____ t ete -
(Priority or Method-of-Mailing)" ~~~ |

 

CG 100-3286),

Caucus to Name Proposed Left Wing
Slate of Delegates to NAACP National Convention

IS G0 Rm QT

[cc 6066-S] advisea that m 5/7/59 the Co-ordinating
Committee of the NAACP held a meeting at which a slate of
delegates to the NAACP National Convention was nominated.

This meeting was attended by between 0 - 50 individuals,
including such prominent Communists as MILTON COHEN, member,
State Committee, CP, LESTER DAVIS, State Committee, CP, ROBERT
HYMER, member of CP NAACP fraction, FRITZI ENGLESTEIN, a
prominent leader in the Ninth Congressional District, CP,

LEO and BETTY GOLDMAN, and others. There were also in attendanc
current members of the SWP and members of the ISL until it
merged with the Socialist Party - Social Democratic Federation.

i

Informant advised that the individual leader of
this caucus was one TIM BLACK, a Chicago school teacher and
an individual who can be described as a Negro nationalist.
However, informant advised that the leadership of ENGLESTEIN
and @OHEN was instrumental in maneuvering in picking the

slate. The slate itself includes two SWP members, one former
ISL member, two CP members and one leader of the Socialist
Party - Social Democratic Federation, out of a total proposed
Chicago Branch delegation of nine members.

/vFoamev7 The Co-Ordinating Committee strategy, according to
Ice 6066-S, is that at the meeting at which the Chicago Chapter
delegation is selected, they will pack the meeting with 75 to
80 of their group which is considered enough to swing the

vote in favor of their delegates. The Co-ordinating Committee
is to concentrate on working for the nine named delegates as
delegates rather than alternates as it assumes the regular
NAACP organization will have its votes split further in
selecting both delegates and alternates.

 

Experience has shown that only 100 people attend
a NAACP meeting of this type. Therefore, the Co-ordinating
Committee feels that by having approximately 75 of its people

-3-

 

Approved:
Special Agent in Charge

 

‘aw 55280 Doeld: 32989672 Page 6

 
 

oo

HW 55280 Doold:32989672 Page 2

 

 

 

* >
4
7 i
}
poe
bts
pa
+ 7 pom
pent aan ‘
= <
” :
Pa

 

 
   

2
sytney oy

Ate deta

SESS

~
i ;
,

ei

 

 

  

z

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

(9 @-HO-(|v 3S

 

Serial Scope:

CBr 944

 

 

 
 

      
  

“* §SC LETTER 9/8/75
ITM 2°. Sits

 
 

hw 55280 pee ‘Page 300
 

FD-36 (Mev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 5/14/59"
Transmit the following in PLAIN TEXT

i ¢.
(Typenin pigin text or or code _
f=

     

AIRTSL

 

   

 

oo eee te fL
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-101)

 

 

    
 
 
   

 

SAC, CHICAGO (100-3286),)

 

GommuNtsT PARTY, USA

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM oe
INTERNAL SECURITY - ¢ et

   
 
 
 

“Background gs

As the Bureau is aware, the Chicago Branch of the
National Associetion for Advancement of Colored People (NAC,
is headed by THEODOR A. JONES, an executive of the Supreme
Liberty Insurance Company of Chicago, and anti-Communist.

fones is a confidential source of this orrica

Com Srp ensrig te. SOME

   

   

ng
aL

    
 

at

In the fall of 1958, JONES, in order to combat the
Communist element within the Chicago Branch of the NAACP,

abolished three units of this Branch, leadership of which. was
heavily Communist infiltrated. In 13/88 the JONES slate of

candidates won a sweeping victory against: the opposition
candidates supported by the left wing.

Since 12/58 JONES
has been in constant conflict with the left element in the
NAACP and has used every parliamentary trick to defeat every
effort on issues which they have brought to the floor.

azLEct ne

   

 

Da gempoes reas 1°

[Fo 0 f2.50 AVS TS

Reliable informants, [og 6066.8, CG 6065-S ana c¥ 1-5
have all joined what is known a8 the Co-ordinating Committe’
of the NAACP.

st
This is an unofficial, loosely knit group of

individuals whose sole objective is -to oust the JONES leader-
» |

ship as well as the current national leadership of the NAACP.
Included in this group are CP members, Socialist Workers Party

(SWP) members, former Independent Soctatist. ro,
(3/ Bureau (REGISTERED) me) &
2- Chicago

A as Coe! .
a a > ao Nae st eye AS :
l- 100-8261 (NAACP) wp VS S
cur/n jb :

   
       
     
   
    
  

  

    
 

 
   
    
 
   

 

"Approved:

_ EW 2 den SS

Page 4

 

 

  
  
  
  
