 

SD 92-577

including McConnell. While S-l has no further information
on the Trafficante link, S-1 believes that if the govern-
ment was able to make a case against McConnell, that
McConnell would implicate Trafficante. Furthermore, S-1
has supplied the FBI- with information that an individual
by the name of James J. Ryan is associated with the New
York LCN in the same capacity that McConnell is associated
with Trafficante.

S-1 has furnished the FBI a large amount of infor-
mation concerning stock schemes throughout the United States
and the individuals involved. One incident which he
related to the FBI concerned the meeting . he had in Chicago,
Illinois, in Septembér of 1968 or 1969,“at the Palmer House.
At the meeting wag/Dalton Smith (News
target), Frenchightedlevine, PeterMilano, a man by the nam
of Distefano. 1 related that Balton Smith asked to use
S-1's room for a meeting, at which initially S-1l was not
present. S-1 was called up to the room at which time he
saw numerous stock certificates on the bed, some of the names
of the companies were Coca Cola Bottling Company of Los
Angeles, Truckers Association, and California Truckers
Association. All the stock. certificates were in the name of
an individual by the name of Fildes. When S-l arrived he was
asked numerous questions about the stock certificates and in
particular questioned as to how to transfer stock certificates.
S-l has numerous other instances in which he was party to
stock deals and has provided the FBI with this information.

The information supplied by S-1 concerning the
stock schemes has been in most cases corroborated by
independent investigation of the FBI. Further cooperation
is also provided by another individual who is talking to the
FBI at the present time. This information concerns not the
link with Trafficante, but the stock schemes by McConnell
and his associates.

-H-
COVER PAGE

rleans Strike Force i
e

 

HW 45956

DocId:32302909 Page 9
 

HW 45956

 

">
\

SD 92-577

>

i

The New Orleans Strike Force's interest in the
above is the relation to the stock schemes as perpetrated
by McConnell and his group and their link with organized
crime. If S-1's information concerning the Trafficante
link is true the network for the Trafficante organization
securities transaction crosses many state lines and would
involve numerous strike force jurisdictions. It has been
well documented in many newspaper articles, over the last three
or four years as to the effect upon the public in general by
the perpetration of the stock frauds. Furthermore, much of
the worthless stocks initiated out of the particular stock
schemes are pledged to banks in order to secure loans and
generate "claim" money. The true loss to this country as
perpetrated by these individuals has never been measured
in that most of these schemes are uncovered many months after
the individuals have bilked the public and the financial
institutions of the country., If the Trafficante link is true,
the amount of money that has been supplied to his organization
through these financial schemes is immeasurable.

On 12/10/73, Mr. THALLER brought to the San Diego
Office of the FBI copies of documents subpoenaed by the
Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) in Los Angeles with
the understanding that these documents would be reviewed for
a violation of statutes within the investigative jurisdiction
of the FBI. A separate case has been opened for the purpose
of reviewing these documents under file number 29-1040.

-I-
COVER PAGE :

 

DocId:32302909 Page 10
 

  
  

oan

 

SD 92-577

result of all the schemes explained above is that ,in one
point in time the corporations fold and all the individuals
who are in possession of the stock are losers. By this
time McConnell and his associates have converted the
proceeds from the stock deals and the money is gone.
Eventually the insurance companies go under when the

stock that is pledged to them turns out to be worthless :
and the individuals default in the payment of the loans. :
Insurance companies in which this particular scheme was

used are Trans Plains, State Farm and Casualty of Florida,

and American Casualty of Louisiana. After the companies or

insurance companies fold an investigation usually turns up .
a few individuals and these. individuals are prosecuted.
In most cases these individuals are so called ten percenters |
and the investigation never leads tn McConnell or any of his ; |
important lieutenants.

|

S-1 states that McConnell is one of the major i

individuals of a group of individuals who are involved in the

stock schemes. McConnell is known as the Chairman of the '
Board and deals directly with Trafficante. Under McConnell

working for him are,approximately two hundreg”individuals «

   

: S,; among tbém are Buddyfkeed, Clifford CA
fNoe, Pa Noe, PeteryfCrosby,, Dig Kozak and ai ‘individual~by= vk

onadge (many of these individuals being so

called ten percent ers to have been indicted, and in some

cases convicted for their stock schemes in the last three or

four years). Besides these individuals, S-1 has provided

information on a number of other individuals associated with

McConnell and has described their association with McConnell \

   

npwhas To the Twitch, We a:
minic de Pode wa wer |
t hese individuals operate in fiost of the and Gene _ /
’ eightStates). . 2

S-1 has provided the FBI with information about all |
of the above listed individuals plus numerous other individuals
“ involved in this loosely knit organization which sets up
specific securities transactions. S-1l has also provided the
FBI with information about certain individuals who will talk
to the government and provide information about the leaders,

-Ge ae
COVER PAGE

 

HW 45956

DocId:32302909 Page 3
 

SD 92-577

made by culpable individuals who:trade among themselves in
order to increase the price of the stock. McConnell has a
number of individuals who are brokers and who work for him

in inflating the value of the stocks and making a market for
the stocks. Examples.of such companies in which this system
was used are Arizona Bio-Chemical, Norda Micro-Wave
Electronics, Computronix, Telstar and Hotei. Also during

the time in which McConnell and his group are manipulating
the stock of this company, spin-off companies from the
original shell companies will be formed and the entire system
will pyramid with the same goals of making a market for the
stock of the spin-off corporations which market value of the
stock is far inflated from the true value of the stock.

Some of these companies have legitimate individuals on the
board of directors, such as Telstar which had ex-astronaut
Scott Carpenter and now deceased actor Audie Murphy. After
the market value of the stocks has been inflated McConnell
and his organization trade the stocks for other securities
which are good or sell their stock and take cash. This cash
for securities is turned over to McConnell finds its way into
the Swiss numbered bank accounts. McConnell according to
S-1, travels across the country and supervises many of

these stock schemes. McConnell is known to travel with a
suitcase full of money or stocks, collecting most of the
proceeds from the stock schemes in which he and his con-
federates are involved. The second method in which the |
stock schemes are perpetrated is the taking over of wholly
intrastate corporations by McConnell and his associates.
After the corporations are taken over, “insiders stock” of
the corporation is pledged for cash, with the cash eventually
going to McConnell and his associates. Then the cash is
converted into good securities, as described above, and taken
out of the country. The third method used by McConnell and
associates. is a scheme involving investing of some worthless
stock, as described in schemes one and two, in casualty
insurance companies. By this method, McConnell and his
associates through an intermediary pledge worthless stock

for a loan from the casualty insurance company. Of course
the stock which is being referred to as worthless is not
known by the company to be worthless, and on paper the

stock appears to be solid security. The cash that is obtained
by the pledging of these securities goes to McConnell and
then is converted and taken out of the country. The end

~F-
COVER PAGE

 

HW 45956

 

 

DocId:32302909 Page 7
 

 

SD 92-577

listed below). The information provided by S-1 has been
recorded and is either first hand or hearsay (of which he
indicatesyfrom whom he obtained the information).

  

The main premise of S-1's information is that
Santg{Trafficante of Miami, Florida, is involved in operation
in which large amounts of stocks and securities are taken out
of the United States to Europe and eventually. the proceeds
from these securities are used by Trafficante's organization
to purchase narcotics in the Unite tates. Trafficante has
an individual by the name of JamegfMcConnell of St. peterss..
burg, Florida, directing this op@ration; McConnelT has set
up a type of organization with him at the head of it that
has been involved in numerous stock schemes across the United
States. Some of these stock schemes will be described
below. The arrangement between Trafficante and McConnell as
stated by S-l is as follows: (S-1's information_on the _
following comes from an individual by the name(C. WwW. Deaton)).

   
    

Trafficante is involved in the business of
financing and/or selling narcotics in the United States.
Due to the problem inherent in the transfer of narcotics
.and the payment for these narcotics simultaneously,
‘Trafficante and his associates have deviced a scheme to
finance these narcotics deals. The scheme involves the
raising of capital by stock frauds throughout the United
States. These frauds are supervised generally by McConnell
(the fraud schemes will be set out in subsequent paragraphs).
After the stock frauds are perpetrated McConnell will pick
up the proceeds being in cash or securities. If the proceeds
are in cash McConnell will convert this cash into good
securities, and of course if the proceeds are in securities
they are "good" securities. McConnell will then take the
securities out of the country, usually going to Liechtenstein.
(The reason that cash is not taken out of the country is due
to allegedly a $5,000 maximum limit of cash that can be
taken legally out of the United States). McConnell will
meet an attorney in Liechtenstein who will set up a trust
account, either with the securities or arrange for the
sale of the securities and set up a trust account with cash.
After the trust account is set up the proceeds in the

-D- oe

COVER PAGE oS

 

HW 45956

Loe

 

 

DocId: 32302909 Page 5
 

 

HW 45956

cy

SD 92-577

account are transferred to Swiss numbered bank accounts.

Then narcotics deals are arranged in which narcotics are
delivered to the United States and after the delivery of

the narcotics to the United States arrangements were made

for the transfer of these narcotics to or through Trafficante's
organization. Payment for the narcotics and the delivery

of the narcotics are made simultaneously by the placing of
transatlantic telephone calls in which funds are exchanged

between Swiss numbered bank accounts (transfers also have a“

occurred in banks in Paris, France and Lebanon). i

According to S-1 the above system affords Traffi-
cante the opportunity to purchase large quantities of
narcotics at wholesale prices within the United States for
the sale at the retail level.~ According to the.FBI, they
have informant information of a meeting that took place in
1972, in which Trafficante and his associates were gathered
and discussing the availability and use of securities to
finance their operations. Although at this meeting there
was no mention of the use of securities to purchase narcotics,
there was reference to Trafficante’s connections and interest
in securities as a basis for raising capital.

The following is a general description of the type
of security schemes and frauds which have been described by
S-1 as being used by McConnell and his group throughout the
United States. These schemes have occurred in many states
throughout the United States, including Louisiana, Arizona,
Texas, Utah, Indiana, etc. There are three general types
of schemes, one involving the setting up of a shell corporation.
The shell corporation is a legal and legitimate company
which has very few assets. McConnell and his group will purchase
this company or gain contral of the company and through a
systematic plan will begin to build up the corporation by
increasing the balance sheet of the company. Usually the
shell corporation will have stock and when the value of the
corporation is increased the value of the stock will
increase. McConnell and his group will stuff the corporation
with some capital and also with worthless stock and then make
a market for the shell corporation's stock. This market is

-E-
COVER PAGE

 

DocId:32302909 Page 6
 

ON

ey

SD 92-577

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Identity of Source Contacted By

SD T-1 is

NO 1283-C-TE SA HAROLD V. HUGHES

SD T-2 is Identity of contacting

CSLA 4178-S Agent is unknown

SD T-3 is Identity of contacting

CSLA 6679-S ; Agent is unknown

SD T-4 is Identity of contacting

CSLA 4143-S Agent is unknown

SD T-5 See Non-Symbol Source
Administrative Page

SD T-6 See Non-Symbol Source

Administrative Page

Toll information in San Diego was furnished
by Mrs. CAROL MILLER, Clerk, Pacific Telephone Company,
but should this information be made public, a subpoena
duces tecum should be directed to Mr. V. G. CAVEY, Chief
Special Agent, Pacific Telephone Company, or his repre-
sentative,

Toll information in Cleveland was furnished by
CSCD 2744-C. In the event it is necessary to publicly

COVER PAGE

Re

 

 

HW 45956 DocId:32302909 Page 2
 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: 4/16/201

Released under the John

 

 

AGENCY: FBI . Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10282-10421 Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES : HQ (44 USc 2107 Note).
ase#:NU 45956 Date:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: = 92-11741-12, 13 1-17-2017
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: REGINATO, ALFRED A.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE: *
DATE: = 12/19/1973
PAGES: 217
SUBJECTS :
DS, RCK, ASSOC, B/F INT, MED/PERS HIST, TELEPHONE
TOLL RECORDS :
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS : — Consulted; 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/26/1999
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS, DOJ
COMMENTS : REFERRED TO DOJ, INC RPT

 

v9.1
HW 45956 DocId: 32302909

Page 1
 

 

 

Woe
2

SD 92-577

The identities of the sources utilized in this
report are as follows:

SD T-1 is LA 4622-PC
Identity of contacting agent is unknown

SD T-2 is LA 6962=PC
Identity of contacting agent is unknown

SD T-3 is NO 1283-C-TE
Identity of contacting agent is
SA HAROLD V. HUGHES

SD T-4 is MICHAEL A. BERTZ,
Attorney, SEC, Los Angeles

SD T=-5 is NO 1283-C-TE
Identity of contacting agent is
SA HAROLD V. HUGHES

SD T-6 is OC CS 999-C
Identity of contacting agent is unknown

SD T-7 is CS SF 50-X
Identity of contacting agent is unknown

SD T-8 is identified on the
Non-Symbol Source, Administrative Page

SD T-9 is SD 919-C
Identity of contacting agent is
SA LOUIS A. MUNOZ

-R-
COVER PAGE

 

HW 45956 DocId:32302909 Page 3
 

 

SD 92-577

Information copies are being submitted to
auxiliary offices who still have leads outstanding as
set forth in San Diego letter to Los Angeles dated
9/11/73.

An information copy is also being furnished to
New Orleans as the Strike Force Attorney in New Orleans
is interested if SMITH's activities and SMITH still has
close ties in that Division. ”

! rel
In addition, an information copy j# being Lee
furnished to Indianapolis as LLOYD WILLIAMASAHLEY, whose
telephone number was called from.SMITH's home telephone,

is the subject in a case“entitled, “LINCOLN BAKING COMPANY,
NBA, 00: Indianapolis"... ~ : :

On 10/5/73, ROBERT THALLER,. Sttike Force Attorney,
Department of Justice, Los Angeles, California, furnished the
following confidential communication, directed to Mr. Feather-
stone from Fred T. Bennett, Special Attorney, New Orleans
Strike Force, subject matter is Securities Investigation -
Nationwide, dated 6/6/73:

a

The writer, along with an FBI agent, recently
interviewed an informant, herein referred to as Source *
Number Onevon May 3 and 4, 1973, «las to S-1's knowledge of
organized crime involvement in illegal stock schemes
throughout the United States. Prior to this interview, S-1
had been interviewed by the FBI concerning organized crime
involvement in the stock schemes and the information supplied
had been verified and corroborated and had proved highly -
reliable. All interviews were commenced with a reading of
rights, S-1's indicating his indicating of such rights,
and S-1 agreeing to have the interviews taped. As background,
S-1 is an @ttorney in Louisiana and has practiced law for
approximately 20 years. In about.1964, S-1 became involved
with a number of individuals who were themselves involved
in various stock schemes (individuals and related companies

-~C-
COVER PAGE

 

HW 45956

DocId:32302909 Page 4

 

 
