 

 

Mr. M: Now you say a lot of cameras were flashing and...

Mrs. M: Yes

Mr. M: Did you - Was anybody in your group take any pictures?
Mrs. M: No

Mr. M: Did anyone have any recorders at the time?

Mrs. M: Not at our group.

Mr. M: That you know of?

 

Mrs. M: No

Mr. M: Since that time, have you talked to anyone that you
know that had taken any pictures at that time?

Mrs. M: No. We didn't take any. I don't know of anyone
who'd taken any pictures, but I did see some pictures of us
standing on the corner there.

Mr. M: Saw a picture of your group?

Mrs..M: Standing on the corner. [I don't know...

Mr. M: Where did you see this picture?

Mrs. M: It was in the newspaper.

 

Mr. M: In the newspaper. Right. But all the people that
you know, no one took any pictures? That was just a newspaper
reporter that got the picture?

Mrs. M: Mm-hmm.

Mr. M: Right. Okay, now when you'relooking out, did you
look into the book depository later on?

Mrs. M: No.

Mr. M: Or could you see into it?

Mrs. M: We could see into - see the windows. I didn't see

 

 

: - anyone in there.
Docld:32266804 Page 9

 

 
 

 

Mrs. Moore Interview...page 7

Mr. M: Right. Okay.

Mrs. M: I mean I wasn't even looking because I didn't -
I wasn't thinking about the book depository.

Mr. M: Right.

Mr. D: Okay. Let me ask you a few questions now, Mrs. Moore.

Mrs. M: Okay

Mr. D: Where did you think the noise came from when you
heard the first noise?

Mrs. M: I thought it was on the street behind us.

Mr. D: On the street behind you?

Mrs. M: Mm-hmm. See we were standing right on the corner
of the street and I thought it was in behind us.

Mr. D: Let's get your location straight now. You were
standing in front of the book depository but across the street
where the Dealey Plaza comes around, where they turned down.

You were right on that corner there, puts you on like right in
front of the book depository.

Mrs. M: Yeah, we was standing right on the corner. The
building is on the corner and we was standing right in front of
the dpository.

Mr. D: Okay, now when you say you thought the shot came
from the street behind you, do you mean the building behind you
or up that Houston Street, or what?

Mrs. M: I didn't think it was a shot. I thought a car was

backfiring.

 

Docld:39966804 Page 10

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Moore Interview...page 5
Mr. M: You went back into your building?
Mrs. M: Yes
Mr.. M: Did you see anyone come out of thé book depository?
Mrs. M: No, I ~ there was so many people there you couldn't
tell where they were coming from and they were all running in
different directions.
Mr. M: Right. Now you ran back into your building?
Mrs. M: Right.
Mr. M: Where did you go in your building?
Mrs. M: Up on the fifth floor and we standing - all of us
was standing there looking out of the window.
Mr. M: Right. Now you all ran back - just all your cosworkers? |
Mrs. M: Yes
Mr. M: And you went back and you started looking out the
window.
Mrs. M: Window
Mr. M: And what did you see then?
Mrs. M: Well, we saw people lying on the ground and the
police attending them, and people running, and cameras flashing,
and police running in and out of buildings and all around behind
the buildings.
Mr. M: You say you saw a lot of people running. Which

direction was most of the running in, do you know?

 

Mrs.M: They was running back up Elm Street or. down Houston.
They didn't go toward where the motorcade was going; they were

going back from the motorcade.

DoclId: 32266804 Page 6 : ___ __. __ : : _ : _ |

 

 
 

Mrs. M:
Mr. M:
Mrs. M:
Mr. M:

Mrs. M:

directly over

Mrs. M:

 

Mr. M:
Mrs. M:
backfiring.

Mr. M:

President and

Mrs.M:

Mrs. M:

 

DaclId:32266804 Page 7

Mrs. Moore Interview...page 4

But all of this just.- ooh - just came down.
Right. Now how many shots did you hear?

I only heard two.
You heard two.

Mm ~ and they came directly over our héad. and

we were standing directly in front of the book depository.

Mr. M: The direction you thought they came from was

your head?
Over our head, uh-huh.
Did you turn around?

I turned around to see why was somebody backfiring

Right. Did you look up?

No, I didn't look up, I just thought it was a car

And you heard the two shots?

Heard two shots, yes.

Then you saw what you just related about the
his head.

Yes, yes.

Now, you said you turned, everybody started running.

 

yes _

Which way did you run?

Ran back into the building.

 

 

 

 
 

 

Mrs. Moore Interview...page 2

Mr. M: Alright. When you say "we," who do you mean by we?

Mrs. M: My co-workers

 

Mr. M: Your co-workers;,right? Can you give me their
names?

Mrs. M: Yes. Irma Jean Vanzandt, Gertrude Fowler and her
husband, Gene Fowler, Lillie Ruth Johnson, and Mary Frances...
I can't think of the last name...Ruby Cannon and Joyce Jones.

Mr. D: Now, I'd like to interrupt the tape a little bit
right here, just to make sure that this tape is picking up.

Mr. M: Okay.

Mr. D: So I'm going to take a short break just to test

 

the tape.
(pause)
Mr. D: We're back now, and we'll continue with the interview.
Mr. M: Right. What time did you go to lunch, Mrs.Moore.

Mrs. M: 12 o'clock

 

Mr. M: 12 o'clock on the dot. Right. You and your!
came downstairs?

Mrs. M: Right

Mr. M: Where were you standing at the time?

Mrs. M: Directly in front of the book depository.

Mr. M: On Elm Street?

Mrs. M: On Elm Street, yes.

Mr. M: Alright, can you tell us what happened?

 

Docld: 32266804 Page 5

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Mrs. Moore Interview...page 3

Mrs. M: Well, while we was standing there- we was waiting
for the motorcade - the motorcade came up Houston Street, turned
directly in front of us, and started down Elm Street. And while
we was standing there, the motorcade was real close to us, close
enough for us to reach out and touch but didn't anyone do this, and
by.that time they passed by us, he waved to us, and by that time
we heard a shot. We heard a noise, I'll say, and I said...and I
thought...I said, "Now what in the world is this backfiring a car
like right here now at this time?" And then I saw the President
when he kinda leaned over - like forward - he leaned forward.

And then after he leaned forward I heard a second shot. And then
when I heard the second shot, that's when Mrs. Kennedy stood up
and I could see all this when it fell.

Mr. D: When you say you could see all of this, you mean
you could...

Mrs. M: I could see his forehead. Seemed like this
whole forehead just fell down - fell down - ‘cause when it hit
a knee this all of this just came down. And then I started
to screaming and everyone started to screaming and after that it
was utter chaos. We all was running and running into each other
and knocking each other down, and Mrs. Kennedy was standing
straight up in the car. And the Secret Service man ran and he
jumped up in the car and he grabbed Mrs. Kennedy and pushed
her down and got in there on top of her. And then by this time
the motorcade had speeded up and had gone on underneath the

underpass and out of sight where you could see it.

Id:32266304 Page 6

 

 
 

 

 

ae

 

 

o ‘Tdenti fying Informaty: on: Be

City/State Laila ZX ce
ate of Birth 229-2 2-93-92

-sootat Be Security, WET LEEIE fot sas oP ,

 

cal pesori tion: 7

- Telephone G37 ~ “LAZO
Criminal Record —
L.. Arrests
ae
-Raditional Personal Information:

Relative (s) : : . Name

ob. “Area srequentea:fasee we 2

  
    

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

 

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

 

Lo Children _

.. @olor nyes Lin’ Lew wair Zé a

. eight 250 . ne ‘Special Characteristics eee
o “Ethnic Group 2 Lacle a con

  

Convictions

 

 

Address _

 

"Remarks: ae ; : So ae so

139266804 Page 3):

Investigator oe : . : :

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/13/20
Identification Form
Agency Information
: AGENCY: HSCA :
RECORD NUMBER: —180-10117-10029
RECORD SERIES: | NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 015092
Document Informati on -
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: MOORE, ANNE RUTH
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: — 10/20/1977
PAGES: 27
,
SUBJECTS :
MOORE, ANN RUTH; INTERVIEW
. DEALEY PLAZA; WITNESSES
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/14/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Interview note and description of witness enclosed. Box 295.

v9.1° :
Docld: 32266

804 “Page 1
 

 

 

 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

¢

NAME Mrs. Anna Ruth Moore Date_10/20 Time_6:24 p.m. ©

 

Address 2449 Talco Avenue Place Home aa

  

cae Dallas, Texas _

Interview?

"See attached.

 

 

  

 

 

.. Interviewer ;
- : : (Signature)
Al Maxwell/Clarence Day

-. (Typed)

 

    
 

Date Transcribed SP LL/LE/ TT

 

 

 
ee a A SR SAL

Key: Mrs. M - Mrs. Moore
: . Mr. M -—- Mr. Maxwell
Mr. D - Mr. Day

Mr. M: Alright. The date is October 20th, 1977. The time
is 6:24 p.m. We're at the home of Mrs. Anna Ruth Moore, 2449 Talco
Avenue, Dallas, Texas. Mrs. Moore, do you see the recorder?

Mrs. M: Yes

Mr. M: And you give consent that we can record this
conversation, right?

Mrs. M: Yes

Mr. M: Present are Mrs. Moore, Investigator Al Maxwell,
Clarence Daly, and Mrs. Moore's husband, Huey. Okay, we can
start.

Mr. D: Okay, you want me to start off?

Mr. M: Right

Mr. D: Mrs. Moore, the reason why we're here is in connection
with the assassination of President Kennedy. Now this took place
on February...

Mr. M: No...

Mr. D: No, January...

Mr. M: November

Mr. D: I'm sorry. This took place on November the 22nd,
1963. Can you tell us where you were on that date?

eae en rn

Mrs. M: Yes. I was at my job...I was on my job on\Elm: Street,

 

  

 

501!Elm “Stree
Mr. D: Can you tell us what happened that day?

Were you there at the scene in the motorcade and so forth?
Mrs. : Yes we were at Tropicana. Now, we watched the parade.

We came down from up on the fifth floor,down on the street} /!we were: |

 
 

 

 

 

“Standing. on: thezcorner directly: ++ ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

DokGd:32266804 Page 4 wenn wt
