 

3FD;36 (Rev. 12-13-56) 7 .

FBI

;
1
|
|
|
|
|
. Date: 6/2/61
1

Transmit the following in
(Type in plain text or code) |

|
Via __AIRTEL ee
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)
SAC, TAMPA (66-231)

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka.

AR

Remytel 6/27/61, captioned "CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM, TAMPA DIVISION," and Buairtel 8/29/61 captioned
"SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka, AR."

Misur survey of the residence of SANTO TRAFFICANTE,
JR., 2805 Bristol Avenue, Tampa, revealed the following
information:

 

Subject lives in a one-story yellow brick house
having a barrel tiled roof. This house has at least three
bedrooms -and two baths with attached two-car garage having ‘*
an inside entrance to the house. The house has a front. door
facing Bristol Avenue and a rear door facing the back yard.
The back yard is completely surrounded by a six-foot chain
link fence with three strands of barbed wire around the top
of the fence. All windows and doors appear to be of a secure
type of construction.

The garage doors of this house are operated electric-
ally by one or more of the four automobiles used by members of
the household. This house is located in an upper middle class
neighborhood with a new home being constructed on one side and
with neighbors on the other side and to the rear where no alley
exists. A small park faces the front of the house with neigh-
bors living directly across the park facing the subject's ;.
residence,

Bureau

Tampa (66-231) (66-75)
SJL: Ka
(3) - ?

  
 

A &
e ‘

én

| aw 45966 DocId:32286666 Page 2
 

JFK Assassination System ; Date: - 6/11/201
} . Identification Form

 

. : Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10195-10442

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: = 92-2781-219

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, TP
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

: : TITLE:

DATE: 06/02/1961
“PAGES: 5 °

SUBJECTS :
LST, RES, REL, MISUR, SURVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: _ 10/02/1998

 

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE s t

COMMENTS :

 

 

vo.l 50
HW 45966 DocId:32286666 Page 1
 

 

“™,
°

WY Yes

TP 66-231

The house under construction next door to the subject's
home is in the early stages of construction, having only form and
‘concrete work done at the present time. This house is being
constructed by HERBERT GOLDBERG, Assistant State Attorney in

charge of criminal cases for Hillsborough County. The house
on the other side is occupied by LJ
who have no children and are elderly persons who are
approaching the state of being senile. They are not believed
to be reliable enough to consider this as a plant site, although
} these two persons have been opened as PCIs to attempt to obtain
- : information regarding subject's activity. This has proved
| fruitless to date:

. _ Investigation is being conducted to determine the
| reliability of neighbors to the rear of subject's residence.
A garage apartment directly to the rear of subject's. house .
t would furnish a clear, unobstructed view of the rear of
f
\
|

 

subject's house and would be an excellent location for an .
antenna to receive any type of radio transmission from these
subject's house. Access to this apartment, which appears

vacant at the present time, would be from a street not under

general observation from subject's residence.

i A physical observation plant has been established “
! . at the home of SAM MENSH, 2404 Bristol Avenue, at the corner t
| of Lakeview and Bristol, giving an excellent visual coverage

I, of the front entrance of subject's home and of activity in

is and out of his garage. No means of exit from the rear of the

| house exists except into the fenced-in rear yard, and a gate-

\, type entrance to this fenced-in yard opens to the front of the

| home adjacent to the garage.

|
t
\

Presently living in subject's home are five adults--:
Mr. and Mrs. SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., Mr. and Mrs. AUGUST PANIELLO,
who are the daughter and son-in-law of subject, and SARAH ANN
TRAFFICANTE, who is a freshman at the University of South
Florida, and is a daughter of subject. It has been noted ay
that SARAH ANN TRAFFICANTE has odd and irregular hours at ’
the university, where she attends various lectures and classes.
A schedule of her hours has been previously obtained. She
drives either a Chrysler or a Plymouth automobile to school.
She has a boy friend, EDWARD VALDES, who atterids the University
of Florida at Gainesville; he has visited her on.a daily. basis
for the past few days.: Subject has been observed to visit the

-2-

 

 

Ko

{
i HW 45966 DocId:32286666 Page 3

 
. TP 66-231

\

 

- is seen being taken for walks by members of the family.

 

the rear of the various houses, and in the case of the subject's
house these conductors would extend across the fenced-in back
yard. The subject has non-published telephone number RE 6-6973.
The type of telephone in subject's house is not known but is
likely to be an instrument manufactured by Automatic Electric.

Tampa Television Labs, Inc., 510 South Howard Avenue,
Tampa, have been seen to appear at subject's home, where they
apparently were working on the electronic mechanism which opens
the garage doors. : :

It is noted that SANTO TRAFFICANTE or some other
members of the household have a small dog which is usually
kept inside the house but appears outside occasionally and

 

A colored woman believed to be WILLIE MAE JACKSON (ph)
has been observed to enter subject's home at irregular and .
infrequent intervals. Investigation is being conducted to
identify this woman and to determine her reliability. It is
not known at this time whether this woman has a key to the
TRAFFICANTE residence.

To obtain access to subject's residence, it is believed
that the garage doors could possibly be opened electronically, *
allowing access to the garage. A locked door would then have

.to be entered. It has not been possible to obtain a key to

the TRAFFICANTE residence, nor has a close examination of
the type of lock used by subject been made. No access to
this. residence could be had at the time of the survey.

It appears that due to the location of the house, .
the fenced-in back yard, the way the telephone wires leave the
house and extend across the rear yard to the telephone poles,
and because of the activity of the occupants of this house,
it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to attempt to .
extend a line from any installation inside the house to a plant:
located in another area. It is felt that if any installation «=
could be made, the type of installation using a radio trans-
mitter to an antenna located.in the nearby garage apartment
to the rear of the house would be the most secure type of
installation.

24.

 

 

|
t
HW 45966

DocId:32286666 Page 4
