SEK Act 6 (1)(B)

 

a)

—FOP-SECRET-DINAR-

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd

Intercepted Cuban military messages of 7 December indicate
that serious rain damage has occurred in both Pinar del Rio

. and Oriente provinces. Five unidentified military units in

Pinar del Rio reported the extent of damage to their defensive
fortifications and facilities in messages to the operations
officer, apparently at fourth army headquarters in Pinar del
Rio. More than half the trenches had been destroyed, the
shelters and command posts at most of the units reporting —
had suffered serious damage,and division headquarters reported
that, while its facilities were still in good condition, the
roads leading to it will have to be repaired. Meanwhile, in

- Oriente Province, intercepts indicate that torrential rainfall

had caused the rivers to flood making travel diffi d
had forced the closing of the Baracoa airport...--

2/SL[ R302-63, 8 December... SECRET KIMBO)
THE PRESIDENT’S ASSASSINATION: -

The Reuters correspondent in Madrid has advised the US
Embassy that he has been queried by a New York client about
an 8 December El Tiempo report that Spanish police have de-
tained a Cuban national--45-year-old Enrique Pascual Ruedolo
Gongora, alleged to have arrived in Spain via an IBERIA flight
from New York on 23 November--in connection with a plot against
the late President Kennedy. Local police have confirmed deten-

tion of Ruedolo. However, they claim that he arrived in Spain

on. 29 November and to the best of their knowledge has abso-
lutely no connection with the assassination. They maintain

. that he was expelled from the United States for undetermined
‘reasons.and is being held because he has been unable to --

arrange onward travel to Cuba. CAS is pursuing the matter
in.Madrid. (Am Emb Madrid, 1155,7 December, CONFIDENTIAL)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:
A fire on 6 December on a farm near Cardenas, Matanzas

Province, destroyed approximately one acre of henequen. The
chief of the Matanzas Bureau of Public Order (BOP) informed

-Havana in an 8 December intercepted message that the fire,

“supposed to. e,”. ut out by the Cardenas fire
department. 2/YJ, R146-63, 8 December, SECRET

KIMBO)

-4-

HW 55355 DocId:32401327 Page 9
—FOP-SECREF DINAR

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd
eee cont

On 6 December the Department of State Security (DSE) unit
in Moron informed provincial headquarters in Camaguey that on
5 December "they tried to shoot down the chief of the PURS in
Velasco...he escaped unharmed. Full details will be sent by
letter.""| The message did not indicate to whom "they" referred.

2/YI[__YT922-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO)

The militiaman who was arrested in Guantanamo on 3
December for suspected counterrevolutionary activities (see
Daily Summary, 6 December) has been freed. Sector E headquarters

in Mayari Arriba informed First Army headquarters in San-
tiago on 5 December that Esteban Mendez Almaguer and Jose
Joiret Aria, both identified as natives of Quijada, were re-
lea the DS The reason for their release was not given.
jeeses by 2/LR1 R197-63, 6 December, SECRET KIMBO)

The DSE unit at Ciego de Avila has captured one insur-
gent and reports the surrender of another. On 6 December
... the DSE provincial headquarters in Camaguey was informed that
“the insurgent Demetrio Armas Izquierdo was captured near
Jatibonico. The message stated that Armas "was reportedly
active in.the Havana, Matanzas, and Santa Clara areas, and
~. most recently.in Camaguey. He belonged to an insurgent band
“led by one Carlo." The same message reported the surrender
“. of Edmundo Almeida (see Daily Summary, 5 December), "previously
“ associated with the bands of Juan Alberto," to the DSE unit
‘at Jatibonico. . Me
: In addition, on 7 December Ciego de Avila reported the
. arrest of.Jesus Marquez, a 39-year-old resident of Jucaro.
. Marquez is said to have cashed an "out-of-circulation 50-dollar
ill.which he ived from the US on 4 Décemb 63."
2/Yd, R138-63, 6 December and 2/YJ: R140-~63,
7 December, SECRET KIMBO)

 

. An undetermined number of residents of Vegas de Palmas,
San Antonio de las Veultas and Agiada de Moya, Las Villas
Province, recently fled the country from an unknown point of
embarkation... ‘Central Army. headquarters in Santa Clara in-
formed Havana that the persons from Vegas de Palmas had been
identified as: Lucina Manso, Rodobaldo Monteagua, and

} . Moises, Monson Garit. an ex-private in the revolutionary armed
forces. ntion escapees were Feliz Perez, Inoes
Lima. | 2/SL. R301-63, 8 December, SECRET KIMBO)
-5-

 

AW 55355 DocId:32401327 Page 10
FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd

“Things have changed quite a bit," Castro declared, "to
attack or to blockade Cuba now would not be easy; we can de-
fend ourselves; we are calm; we know what we have to defend
ourselves with." Then, in an implied reference to the Soviet
shipment of strategic missiles to Cuba last year, Castro de-
clared: "When we hear some of these lackeys of imperialism
talking so calmly about invading Cuba, when it has been only
one year since the October crisis, they are once more proving
us right and are once more justifying Cuba's taking defensive
measures; this talk led to the October crisis." Castro then
declared that "these men are so deceived by their own propaganda
that...they cannot conceive of what any invader would meet here."
A war against Cuba, he said, "would not end while there was a
single mercenary soldier treading on our soil."

Castro then returned briefly to his views as to how peace
can be assured in the Caribbean. "Whatever they want to dis-
cuss with Cuba," he said, "let them come and discuss honestly
with Cuba; because we have stated the indispensable prerequisites
for a peaceful atmosphere...in the Caribbean." Thus far, how-

“ ever, "they have answered with aggressions on top of aggressions."
This course, ‘he said, "is doomed to failure." (CIA FSIS Havana,
7 December, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

‘CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

A shake-up in the Cuban cabinet has moved Faure Chomon
Mediavilla to the post of transportation minister; he succeeds
Capt. Omar Fernandez, whose ministry was recently under attack
by Castro for alleged inefficiencies and "vices." Major Jesus
Montane Oropesa is replacing Chomon as communications minister.

Chomon, who served as Castro's first ambassador to the
Soviet Union, took over as communications minister in March
1962. He is currently a member of the National Directorate
of PURS. Fernandez, his predecessor, is reportedly moving to
an unspecified position in the Ministry of Industries under
Che Guevara. :

Montane took part in the attack on the Moncada Barracks
in 1953 and followed. Castro to exile in Mexico. He took part
in the GRANMA expedition of 1956 when he was captured and im-

. prisoned, After the revolution, he reportedly received only

} a minor post in the government because he had talked too much
in prison. His most recent post, dating from at least August
1962, has been as number two man in the Tourism Institute
(INIT). He is said to be an ardent Marxist-Leninist, who
preaches it at every opportunity. (UPI 63, 6 December, UN-
CLASSIFIED; background information: SECRET)

3.

TOP-SECRET -DINAR

AW 55355 DocId:32401327 Page @
AW 55355

“TOP SECRET-DINAR-

FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH:

Fidel Castro's speech of the night of 6-7 December was
on the occasion of the graduation of women teachers for the
literacy campaign. He devoted most of the 99 minutes to a
discussion of the development of local education in Cuba, At
one point, however, he made a moderately long digression to
discuss Venezuela and the situation raised by Venezuela's dis-
covery last month of a large cache of weapons, some of which
have been traced to Cuba,

Castro stated that, while "the imperialists and their
lackeys" charge that Cuba is promoting subversion in Vene-
zuela, rebellion and subversion cannot be promoted from with-
out. The Venezuelan revolution, he maintained, stems from
the Venezuelan people's own disgust with their government and
with its permitting the “imperialists" to plunder Venezuela's
wealth and resources, If subversion could, in fact, be promoted
from the outside, why, he asked, have all the resources of im-
perialism failed to subvert the Cuban Government? -

Betancourt, "that miserable lackey," is trying to incite
the United States to take military action against Cuba, Castro
charged, As a pretext the Venezuelans say they have discovered
arms from Cuba on the Venezuelan coast, Castro stated.’ "Some
of the arms," he said, “are said to have borne an effaced Cuban
seal, and other arms are said to be bazookas, recoilless cannon,
mortars, But Cuban mortars perchance? No! Yankee mortars!
Yankee bazookas! Yankee recoilless cannon! Arms which we did
not manufacture; arms which we did not buy!" Castro then went
on, without specifically denying that the weapons had come from
Cuba, by implying that the CIA.had obtained Cuban arms from
Cuban deserters and that it would not be difficult to plant
these weapons in Venezuela. (Here he is obviously referring
to the Belgian-made light rifles and submachineguns which have
been identified as among those shipped to Cuba in 1959 and
1960.) With respect to the US-made mortars, bazookas, and re-
coilless rifles, Castro challenged the OAS investigating com-
mittee to "investigate thoroughly," make laboratory tests,
trace the serial numbers, and then "they will be able to reach
only one conclusion: that they belong to the CIA,"

Castro then attempted to show the “brazenness" and in-
consistency of those who would use the Venezuelan arms cache
as a pretext to invade or to blockade Cuba when for more than
four years the very same kind of sitbversive activity as is
now being charged to Cuba has been perpetrated against Cuba--
without any hemispheric attempt to punish the aggressors.

-2-

DocId:32401327 Page 7
OPE Aet.6 (1) (B)

_._ CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES:

‘The[___Jambassador inf __—i| is convinced of the
accuracy of Venezuelan charges of Cuban subversion.
(Page 11)

There is an additional report on the use of a Cuban trans-
port plane to supply pro-Castro groups in Venezuela with
weapons. (Page 12)

Cuban Chargé Lasalle in Bolivia is reportedly supplying

.,, weapons to the leftist section of the governing party,
as the serious political crisis there becomes more in-
tense. (Page 12) :

A clandestine source has reported that two Cubans are
with a group of Peruvian leftists currently hiding in

Bolivia, and that Castro has agreed to provide money and
guerrilla training for a rival group. (Page 12)

iv

HW 55355 DocId:32401327 Page 5
AW 55355

—TOP-SECRET-BINAR-

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

Three independent. clandestine sources have reported the
unloading of military equipment from a Soviet cargo vessel,
probably the METALLURG BAIKOV, on 19 or 20 November. This
vessel was suspected of carrying a military cargo long before
its arrival in Cuba. (See Daily Summary of 12 November.) It
carried what was probably the eighth full military cargo to
arrive in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis. One source, a
retired civil engineer whose reporting has been factual and
in most instances based on personal observation, reported that
the METALLURG BAIKOV unloaded "large quantities of arms and
military equipment" in Havana on 20. November and left the next
day. Another source reported that Havana longshoremen had
stated that a Soviet ship, which they did not identify, had
unloaded arms at Regla Wharf, Havana, on 20 November. A third
source, an educated Cuban of Western European extraction who
is a resident of Havana, reported that tanks were among the
equipment unloaded from a Soviet vessél that arrived in Havana
on 19 November. The three sources are probably referring to
the same shipment. If the report on the delivery of tanks is
true, this would be the second consecutive reported shipment
of armored vehicles to Cuba. The ORENBURG reportedly delivered
some 45 tanks on 23 or 24 October. (See Daily Summaries of 28
and 29 October.) It has previously been reported that another
probable military shipment, the ninth, is now en route aboard
the SLUTSK. (See Daily Summary of 3 December.) (CIA TDCS-DB-
aren 28e, 6 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DIS-
SEM

The Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to the
Cuban Army artillery forces, according to a recent speech by
Raul Castro. Cubans probably have been training in cruise
missile operations since last spring, and the rotation and
withdrawal of some Soviet naval personnel in September suggested
that the cruise_missile s ver to the Cubans
at that time. which probably serves
the cruise missile system remains active, ‘however, indicating
that some degree of Soviet involvement_continues. (CIA FBIS,

14 November, UNCLASSIFIED and NSA a/-f Yai6-63, 28 August,
1963, SECRET KIMBO) a

 

JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

-1-

DocId:32401327 Page 6
AW 55355

—FOP-SECRET DINAR-

DAILY SUMMARY

9 December 1963

     

This summary of significant information has not been coordinated
outside the Office of Current Intelligence. It does not representa
complete coverage of all current reports received, nor does time
permit the complete evaluation of all reports which are included.

 
     

 

CONTENTS

MILITARY _ DEVELOPMENTS:

Three independent clandestine sources have reported on
the unloading of military equipment from the Soviet vessel
METALLURG BAIKOV in Havana harbor on 19 or 20 November.
(Page 1)

Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to Cuban Army
artillery forces, according to a recent speech by Raul
Castro; however, Soviets still appear to be involved in

. the communications net which serves the cruise missile ~
system. (Page 1)

FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH:

In a 6-7 December speech devoted mainly to education, Cas-
tro digressed to discuss the situation resulting from Vene-
zuela's charge that the arms cache discovered on a Vene-
zuelan beach last month had come from Cuba. Castro implied
that the arms had been planted by CIA and are being used
as a pretext for new action by the “imperialists and their
lackeys" against Cuba. He expressed confidence that what-
ever the result, the Cuban revolution will not be defeated.
(Page 2)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Faure Chomon Mediavilla is replacing Omar Fernandez as
transportation minister; Major Jesus Montane Oropesa will
be new communications minister. (Page 3)

Heavy rainfall has apparently caused damages to military
facilities in Pinar del Rio Province and hampered travel
in Oriente Province. (Page 4)

DocId:32401327 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORD SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA
104-10302-10019
JFK
CIA-DI-FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
OCI/CIA

DAILY SUMMARY
12/09/63

Tg

CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
TOP SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
09/22/98

Released under the John
. EKennedy
Assassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).

ase#: NW 50953 Date:
b4-05-2018 --

 

JFK-M-02:F2 1998.09.22.15:26:48:966120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT

AW 55355 DocId: 32401327

Page 1
THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION:

A Spanish-language daily in New York claims Madrid police
are holding a self-confessed plotter against the late Presi-
dent. (Page 4)

INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST:

A fire on a farm near Cardenas, Matanzas Province, has de-
stroyed one acre of henequen. (Page 4)

An attempt has been made to shoot the chief of the PURS in
Velasco, Camaguey Province. (Page 5)

A militiaman arrested in Guantanamo on 3 December for sus-
' pected counterrevolutionary activities has been freed.

(Page 5)

The DSE unit at Ciego de Avila has captured one insurgent

and reports the surrender of another; a resident of Jucaro

has been arrested for cashing an out-of-circulation 50-

dollar bill. (Page 5)

Thirty-two people attempting to flee Cuba were captured by
Cuban security forces on 8 December; this may be related to
an earlier report which stated that an undetermined number
of residents of Las Villas Province fled the country from
an unknown point of embarkation. (Page 6)

Several minor incidents of sabotage have been discovered
on CUBANA aircraft. (Page 6).

A DRE leader in Mexico City announced that 126 Cuban mili-
tiamen were killed in a clash with guerrillas near Sancti
Spiritus, Las Villas Province. (Page 6)

CUBAN AIR FLIGHT CONNECTIONS:

Spain has approved regularly scheduled Havana-Madrid fitents
by CUBANA airlines,[ 42000 2 SEK AGE BCL) BY mm 7
(Page 7)

   

y : SHIPPING SUPPORT FOR CUBA:

The Argentine Government and the owners of the SS ANAMAR
are determined that it will not take a cargo of Soviet-—
purchased coffee to Cuba. (Page 7)

di

AW 55355 DocId:32401327 Page 3
   

AW 55355

“| | DEVELOPMENTS :

Ma The informed his government on 5
ma December that several have been impressed by

“the. Cuban. claim that: the weapons found in Venezuela last
month had actually been planted there by the US. Apparently
unaware that elaborate efforts had been made to erase all
indications of the Cuban origin of the weapons, they wonder
why Cuba would permit evidence of its involvement in send-

_ ing arms to Latin American-guerrillas to be traceable to
“Cuba. (Page 7). Ma

The dispatched an urgent message

to-.his on 6 December express sgivings
as to the attitudes of members of the special ommittee

appointed. to investigate Venezuela's charges against the .
Castro.regime. (Page 8) * :

In relatio i i on of enezuelan arms
cache, the to the has been instructed
not to show “sympathy or excessive understanding in rela-'

tion to Cuba." (Page 9)

SOVIET-CUBAN RELATIONS:
A clandestine source has reported, possibly as a current
rumor, that Fidel Castro visited Moscow around 15 November;
there is no current evidence that he made any public appear-
ances in Cuba around that date. (Page 9)

BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS:

Five Polish merchantmen have been assigned to Cuban run.
(Page 10) :

The Soviet-made AN-12 transport has landed in Cuba. (Page 10)
NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

The Moroccan foreign minister has received a Cuban "good-

will" mission for the second time; local expectation is

that formal relations will be re-established shortly.

(Page 11)

The President of Dahomey declined an invitation to attend
the 1 January anniversary celebration in Cuba. (Page 11)

iii

Docld: 32401327 Page 4
