 

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also known as
MINUTEMEN . ‘
FORT WORTH TEXAS

 

s "Ray", who appears to be the highest group official .
in the area, is speaking more of retired General Edwin Walker's
guidance and leadership of the orggnigation. He speaks in
near reverent terms concerning Walker...” Dallas T-1 advised
that "Ray" was arranging a meeting with’General Walker for
him, but after further consideration, decided it would not
be appropriate at this time, because Walker becomes suspicious
of those who too quickly attempt to meet him. "Ray" advised

that it would be wiser to wait until the General requests

to see him or until he had been in the organization a longer
period of time. yee,

Dallas T-1 further stated that William Seals of
Houston, Texas, formerly of Fort Worth, has not been recently
im contact with the group in Fort Worth.

Dallas T-1 advised he had no information that the
group had yet established a local storehouse or arsenal for
.weapons and that the membership and leaders in the local
group have remained unchanged.

 

 

, con ENTIAL

15

 

AW 53074

DocId: 32334405 Page 5
ef

C CONRAN

‘UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT ‘OF JUSTICE

 

z . FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
allas, Texas

In Reply, Please Refer to : ‘March 26, 1965

File No. 22 :

    

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also known as
MINUTEMEN

_ FoRT re TEXAS _

  

ne . ' The following information was “furnished on ‘November 19
- amd 24, 1964, by. Dallas T-1: .

oo Dallas Tel advised that he is presently a member of . .
la group referred to as..the "Minutemen". and “American Underground” -
‘and has been so since approximately 1962... Dallas T=1 advised
that the organization is nationwide with approximately fifteen

 

     

 

 

ties to. thirty members in Tarrant County.’ Dallas.T-1 stated that
the name ‘of the organization as such has’ only, ‘peen used twice
in two years and that proper names are seldom, if ever, used
and that this makes it very difficult to determine identities
lot: jwembers. Dallas T-1 advised that, the’ following are currently
“members of the organization: oh.
vee arthur Pollard, 2707. Berryhill Drive, Fort Worth, Texas
Otto (Duke) Koling and Shirley Bob Renshaw, 2341 eo
Harris: Lane,’ Halton, City, Texas, who lives with .
Koling. : .

 

Bill Seals, sinployed at Montgomery Ward! sand yve- -
cently transferred to Montgomery Ward' 8, Houston, Texadi .

Van Pollard, 3421 Hanger, Fort Worth, Texas

 

is-document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the
FPBi and is leaned to your agency. It and its
contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

 

AW 53074 DocId:32334405 Page 2

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/4/2015
Identification Form -

 

Agency Information

Released under the John

 

 

AGENCY: FBI | Kennedy
RECORD NUMBER:  124-90116-10111 Assassination Records
. ollection Act of 1992
RECORD SERIES: DL (44 USC 2107 Note).
; ase#: NU 53074 Date:
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 105-2027-5 . pS-30-2017
. Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DL
TO: HQ
~ TITLE: -
DATE: 03/26/1965
‘PAGES: 20
SUBJECTS :
MINUTEMEN ‘
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: © Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 08/10/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : LHM

<

v9.1
AW 53074 DoclId: 32334405

Page 1
Oo Coane, S :

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND, also known as
: WINUTEMEN :
FORT WORTH TEXAS.

 

Closely associatdd with the organization and - perhaps

a member. is Richard W. Dawson, who lives on Highway 121 on

the outskirts of Fort: Worth and who has formerly lived in the
_meighborhood of 2820; Northwest 29th in the early 1950's. Dallas

To. advised that an attorney whom members of. the group have

been advised to contact if. "they get into trouble", is W.. Alfred
| Windor, with offices in the Ellis Building in Fort Worth. :

Dallas T-1 advised he does not know wht ther: or not. Windor

a -is a member of. the organization.

 

 
 

. Dallas T-1 advised. the primary purpose of the
organization is to fight against the present Federal control
-of national and local Governments and to fight for "States'
rights". The group is. ‘supposedly national in eriginm and
believes that the ‘Federal Government is im the process of
selling out to the communists and that the group is the last
Line of defense against this sellout. The group secondarily
is racial im -that it believes in white. supremacy. Dallas T-1
advised that the organization suffered a severe setback 2

. because of the assassination of President Kennedy but now is . .
attempting a full-scale reorganization, The group recruits a
-basically from those whe do not have criminal records. and is
organized in such a:manmer that no one is supposed to know :
the hames of ‘other members in the organization. This is to
prevent effective infiltration by the Goyernuent. Dallas T-1 :
advised that the group has no immediate “plans for action,
but that several times logally. this group has determined to.
act.on their owm and this. action has been curtailed because
of orders relayed from. higher authority in the organization.
These higher authorities are unknown to Dallas T-1, except
‘that a person by the name of Ray (last mame unknown) at the. i
ranch.in the vicinity of Venus, Texas, appears to be in contact
with the group's organizational leaders. Ray is described
as a personal and ¢laseé friend of retired General Edwin Walker i
and about ome and one-half to two years ago’ was. ‘apparently
implicated. in some. manner: in the burning of a uewspaper in the
.aréa of Midlothian, Texas. Ray is also. apparently a warehouse
supervisor in Dallas.

  

 

 

Dallas T-1l also advised he. has been recently con-
tacted. by a man whom: he does not know but who apparently lives
in the Fort Worth area, and this unknown male advised Dallas
Ti to disassociate himselz from the. small group he is. now -

aN WTIAL

 

 

a

we 53074 Docld:32334405 Page 3
|
|
7
i
|

AW 53074

C O

pONEHENTIAL

AMERICAN ‘UXDERGROUND, also known as_
MINUIEMEN

FORT WORTH, TEXAS

attached to for the apparent. purpose of moving into a position
of more prominence in the organization. Dallas T-1 advised
that thé small group with which he has. been associated is. the
lowest level in the organization and that their primary

purpose is to do the "dirty work".

Dallas T-1 stated that the group is also prepared,
in the event of a Negro uprising in the Fort Worth area, to
take action against various Negro leaders. including. Dr. Flint,

Dr. Fleming and Dr. Ransom, and a Fort Worth hoodlum named

‘MadisoncHogan, who is. apparently a Nation of Islam leader
‘in the Fort Worth area. : :
Dallas T-1 advised-thatthe only overt action tenta-
tively planned for the winter months is that the effect of
a .30 caliber..vifle on power transformers in the area may be
tested. Dallas T-1 further stated that the group apparently
has.a contact with an individual in northeast Texas who- goes
by. the name of "South" and that this contact may,,be utilized
in the raiding of a northeast Texas armory. during the winter
months. The primary interest is obtaining mortars and mortar
ammunition and automatic weapons; therefore, Dallas T-1
believes that the armory would probably be of a tank or
infantry group. - ae
aan a —

cote .

_. | Dallas T=1 advised that the group locally is
_attempting to gain control of the Panther City Motorcycle
Club for the purpose of gaining land apparently owned by this
club, in the area of Lake Arlington, Texas, and thereafter
selling this land and using the monies therefrom for purchases .
of the group. : : ;

; Dallas T-1 advised that it has been learned the group
has organizations in Stephenville, San Angelo, Italy and”
Brownwood, Texas. Dallas T-1 further advised that Arthur
Pollard has in the past made trips to Alabama, Wyoming,
Montana, California, and that the group has a contact with

“an individual by the name of Jim Scott in Kansas City. Dallas

Tol advised that he has seen pamphlets from national Minutemen
headquarters; but that these dealt primarily with the fighting
of any National Firearms Act which would involve licensing of
private weapons. _ ;

CONAGRA

 

DocId: 32334405 Page 4

 

 
