 

 

ey apris test

HW 54460 DocId:32330472 Page 2

DECLASSIFIED BY VL nes Mr. er
: otter

~ Mr.
SUBJECT: ou AEA ea yea a peer
JUAN DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ, a!
et al, ‘
ROLANDO MASFERRER, Victim
Internal Security - Cuba

 

On the afternoon of 4/6/60, Assistant AG Wi key of the

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
  

KIDNAPING | . ; hiSuce

Criminal Division called re this case. He said that on 2/11 or 12/60,
Judge Choate in Miami conferred with USA Madsen and an FBI agent,
and subsequently reduced the bond of the two subjects in this case
from $30,000 to $5,000. Mr. Wilkey noted that, by memorandum of
1/27/60 we advised the Department that there was . -&@ possibility that
if the two subjects were not kept in jail, they would depart for

| Cuba. Wilkey noted that the two subjects” are now in Cuba, inasmuch

as they met the lower bail.

Mr. Wilkey wanted to know whether, at the time the bail

was reduced, the FBI, had rendered an opinion that it would be .

desirable to reduce “the bail in order that the subjects could get

out of jail, bea¥ing ! ‘in mind that one of the subjects is an FBI

informant, and from an intelligence standpoint he could produce after

he left jail.

*s I told “Mr. Witkey that we would not ordinarily express

 

check and find out just what happened here.

3 I checked with SAC Teague in Miami. He said that, in
accordance with Bureau instruétions, SA George Davis advised US
Madsen on 1/29/60 (2 days after the subjects were apprehended)

know of the informant status of one aD the sub, was
ae 105, REC- 20 iE) 4A eae C DSF
On 2/12/60 the Aasked yond OWvis t fed to’ see hi

The USA advised the’ Judge that one of the subjects had, been an

On cee mt mean
or) Se veg ant id: ‘
. . “oy rhe : i

’

. gee wore. ‘pq 3 40 APR 1B 1960 ie —
_one

coaennea *

Wie E4265

CONFIDWAYTIAL

 

 

 
 
 

|"he the two of them went together to the chambers of Judge Choate

opinions in mattérs of bail or prosecution, but that I would like to

that
one of the subjects had been an FBI informant, and the USA was being
so informed, as the matter could well come out during the trial.
USA said he would like to think this matter over, and might request
an agent to accompany him later to see the Judge, as ,t a Jee should

mM,

  

The

 

 

L/ oe : ~
. a Strown FORM NO. 10 ~ connie (ran . : fo pte, Felson ——__
°  S“ UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Zee : . ——_
et d. | ee |
(pt - Memoran um oa
: McGuire
PA, Nara
gt TO: MR, PARSONS pars: 4/7/60 oO
i . . . 5 Tete a
. cc Mr. Parsons: Tele. Room —_
rrom :. A. H. Beimont( she. Mr. Belmont Gansy

 
 

 

v9.1

HW 54460

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Docld: 32330472

FBI
124-90090-10135

HQ

105-84265-59

FBI
BELMONT
PARSONS

04/07/1960
3

 

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Document Information

ROLANDO MASFERRER
JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT -

Unclassified
4

Redact
07/15/1998
INDEFINITE

MEMO

Page 1

Date: 6/1/2015

Peleased under the John
Kennedy

-Besagsination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ases#: NW 54460 Date:
WOo-04-2017

 

 
 

 

 

fs
\. ~

|

 

|

 

 

 

: ¢ - conning oo Log

Mr. Parsons

FBI informant, and that Agent Davis could furnish the details.

Davis told, the Judge that the informant, MM 635-S, had been coopera-
ting with the Bureau for a considerable period of time prior to his
arrest, and had been an effective paid informant. The Judge asked
if the informant could be used again in view of his arrest. Davis
told him that we w d try to continue to use him if the opportunity
presented itself. 4 Uy)

. According to Teague, neither Agent Davis, nor the USA,
made any recommendation to the Judge regarding possible leniency,

or reduction in the bond, either directly or by inference. The

Judge said that he had recently had a case brought before him

regarding Rolando Masferrer and his brother, wherein Immigration: and
Naturalization Service wanted to exclude these individuals. The

Judge said he wanted to fair and objective; that if he decided the
Masferrers should be excluded, this could be constructed as favorable
to the Castro government. On the other hand, if he took action against
the two Cuban defendants in this case, this would be inconsistent

with granting an exclusion order against the Masferrers. The Judge
said he wanted to consider the case involving the exclusion order
first, -and would wait to act on the Kidnaping case. The Judge said

he would consider reducing bail for the two defendants, if the defense
attorney so requested. USA Madsen said he would work this out with

the Defense Attorney.

I called Mr. Wilkey back and advised him of the above.

-I pointed out that, as I had previously indicated, it was not in the.
‘province of. the Bureau to make recommendations as to bonds, or

whether a man should stay in jail, and that no sych opinion was
expressed by the Bureau in this case.

I asked Wilkey what he had in mind. He said that he knew
this was the Bureau policy and he was trying to satisfy himself as
to what caused the reduction in bail, and whether it was better for
(these defendants to remain in Cuba, or whether the Department should
‘try to bring them back and try them. He asked if the Bureau had an
opinion on this from an intelligence standpoint.

I told him we did not; that while we would receive any
information that this informant sent to us, we would make no request
that the trial be held up, or that the Department hold up on any
attempts to get the defendants out of Cuba. u)

cons eer

 

HW 54460 DocId:32330472 Page 3

 
 

a & ; \

2 | C : cong @) vo ~ .

Mr. .Parsons

4

I told Mr. Wilkey that, as far as we were concerned, he
could disregard any intelligence aspects in connection with prosecu-
tion of this case. I told him, however, that he would probably want
the case carefully reviewed, from the standpoint of its strength,
bearing in mind that one of the principal witnesses was Catherine.
Taafe, whose reliability was questionable, and one of the defendants
had been an informant of the Bureau. 4 )

It would appear that Wilkey is examining this case from the
standpoint of action at this time. He understands clearly that the
Bureau has made no requests and will make no requests to delay action
in the case, either from an intelligence standpoint or from the stand-
point that one of the defendants was a Tern anton

i)
WP

 

     

For information.

 

ae

 

HW 54460 DocId:32330472 Page 4

 

 
