 

   

   

, CONE UDENTTAL, ga
a desire to renounce. Buch nationality" (italics added).

"26 Receipt sand Treatment within SCA of Infornation ¢ on
Disaffected Americans Abroad ~ : :

As stated in. the preceding section, SCA believes that it,
should be on distribution for all incoming information as ta diss
affected Americans abroad, #0 that lookout cards may be posted:.’.’
in the Passport Office and” file initiated in the Office of. Spectal
Consular Services looking toward 4: possible application for a’
repatriation loan.

With regard to persons who have renounced 1 their citizenshtp
or indicated an intention of doing so, the Passport Office’s pro-
cedure for preparing a lookout card’ and otherwise processing the.
case ia governed by Instruction 2560.2, issued by the Office on
November 6, 1964 which ta attached ta thia memorandum | as Atta h
ment C,:

  

hod In accordance with ghe ‘vemarke made above with respect’ to-.
the reporting requirements, SCA believes that this Instruction. .
ig similarly inadequate 4n scope and’ is taking steps to have it
revised, It should cover, and should require the preparation
-of lookout cards with regpect to, not only "persons who have.
renounced United States nationality or who have expressed a de-
‘sire to renounce such nationlity," but also persons who have become
defectors, or have otherwise indicated disaffection with the Unit
- States, without forma enouncing their nationality or indicat-
ing any inten E iowever, W t respect to ‘the de= ry

 

 

 

  
 
  

> the file during the. period when Oswald's citizenship wag in doubt ,
/ , the Instruction would seem even in its present form to close that
loophole; for it does require the preparation of a card in any |
case where an Ameriean has Fenotnced his citizenship or attempted
‘to do so. : : .

The third deficiency, involving the absence of a permanent
lookout card on Oswald aa a "defector," has also been remedied,
At the time of the Oswald case the Passport Office. did not - main=
tain a separate classification within the lookout file of "de"
oe fectorg." Now, however “pursuant to direction by the Administra=
i . tor ofsSCA in March o 964, the Passport Office ‘does keep current
lookout cards on. "defectar’ ." To, assure that the file is complete,
the names of all defectors and rée-defectors known to the Military
have been obtained and furnished to the Passport Office and are
now coveted by lookout cards, as are noi: military defectors, and
the Passport Office hag been instructed, ta keep the cards current
on the basia of. information, furnished. ScA by. the military and the
intelligence agencies, © tny however, it appears that Tnatruction

 

     
  

"2560. 2 As inadequate ’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 54653 DocId:32212672 Page 9
 

 

 

 

al an FES aL ate

 

CONFIDENTIAL a

2560.2.18 inadequate to cover this function of the Pasaport
Office, for not only doeg it not apply to defectors as such, but
it speaks only of "receipt of information from a Foreign Service
post," with no indication that the information may come through
SCA from the military or intelligence agencies =~ or that it may
come through INR under the expanded reporting requirement of

11. FAM 938 as proposed above» : :

 

Finally, it should be noted that, as the Administrator. of.
SCA informed the Secretary on September 28, 1964, dissemination
of information to the intelligence agencies during the period’. :
of the Oswald case =- information on Oswald's ‘citizenship status,
return to the United States, etc, ~~ was performed by the Passport
Office, Early in 1963 the Deputy Under Secretary for Administra~
tion and the Administrator, SCA, determined that all liaison with
the intelligence agencies. should be conducted through INR, Since
then all information concerning defectors which comes to the atten«
tion of the Passport Office; is brought. to the attention .of the.
Administrator, SCA, whose office forwards it to the Director of -
INR for appropriate dissemination, oo ” ‘ :

 

     

OIL. LAW AND POLICY AS TO EXPATRIATION AND REPATRIATION OF. DISAFFECTED
AMERICAN CITIZENS ‘ : .

A. Expatriation : a

A United States citizen may lose his nationality by perform-
ing any one of the expatriating acts described in the subsections
to Section 349(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952
(to the extent that these provisions have not been held unconstitu>
tional by the Supreme Court). It would appear that only two of So
those acts «~ formal renunciation. of nationality under sec. 349(a) (6) a
and oath of allegiance to a. foreign state under sec. 349(a)(2) en. -"

-are relevant here, however, for they are the only two thatwere
-even arguably involved in the Oswald case, and they are also the: .
bo . only two that involve a substantial scope for interpretation of the
; law by the Department, : os 0 :

The second of the two may be disposed of quickly, - Bec. 349(a) (2)
states that an American citizen shall lose his nationality by "take
ing an oath or making an affirmation or other formal declaration of.
allegiance to a foreign state or a political subdivision thereof,"
Oswald delivered to the American Embassy in Moscow on October 31,..
Do 1959, a signed statement reading: "I affirm that my allegiance is
on to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics," The Department has

. taken the position that this statement ‘and conduct by Oswald did
a not ‘have the effect of’ depriving him of his American nationality,
8 ‘under sec. 349(a)(2). Thig determination was based on a number of
cases in which the ‘Department: and, other tritunals have consistently

 

_ | held that:

 

            

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 54653 DocId:322127672 Page 10
 

i
t
}
i

HW 54653

 

“CONFIDENTIAL, | ~ ne ae

_while the interest of the FBI .in disaffected Americans abroad may

  

_ tionality ox who have expressed a desire wo,

  

be limited by the FBI's jurisdiction to the possibility of a threat
to the nation's. internal security, this is not tre of such agencies
as the CIA, Indeed, Director McCone is said to have testified to
the Warren Commission, in testimony not yet officially released but
leaked to the press, that. the CIA ig definitely interested in all
reports concerning disaffected Americans abroad, and that it relies

-upon the State Department to report such information as it has on’

such cases, So far as SCA is concerned, it might be argued that our
interest is satisfied by the reporting requirement which becomes
applicable as’soon as the "disaffected" citizen indicates an -intent
to return to. the United States, since he will not be applying.for a
passport again until after he does return, But, in the interest of
Closing all loopholes and minimizing the possible effect of human
error, we believe it desirable that a report be required fmm the
field, so that the Passport Office may post a lookout card and ‘other
appropriate. action. may be taken, as soon as it comes to the atten-
tion of a post abroad that, the citizen: is in fact "disaffected,"
Also, failure to report at the actual time of “disaffection” may ;
mean that the citizen's disaffection is unknown to the acting. of~.
ficials at a time when he subsequently applies for a repatriation
loan; he may, for example, apply for such a loan at a different .
post, or to a different official, from the one who originally “
became aware of his disaffection, SCA recommends, then, that the
reporting requirement in 11 FAM 938.2 be expanded to apply when-..
ever a U.S, citizen has evidenced "disaffection" within any of the
categories of 938.2(c), or in any other way. — ey

There then arises the question of distribution of the informae
tion on disaffected Americans abroad after it comes in to the De-
partment, SCA believes that it should be on distribution for such .
material, both for the purpose of having a lookout card posted in
the Passport Office, and for the purpose of initiating‘a file in the
Office of Speical Consular Services in cage the disaffected person
should subsequently change his mind and apply for a repatriation
loan. SCA is accordingly concerned that the November 4, 1964
memorandum submitted to the Task Force by INR, and veferred ta:

« Above, does not indicate’ that SCA is included among the “appropriate

offices and agencies" that. are on distribution, for such incoming
information. a ae : : . wos
Witti respect’ to the reporting requirement’ in 8 FAM 225.6, SCA *
completed renunciation of citizenship. SCA believes that it should ;
be amended to: apply clearly to any attempted renunciation and to.any

; indication : that the person is contemplating or desires to renounce
his citizenship, (This ‘is the- language used by PPT in Instrucjtion
"2560.2, the purpose of which is "to establish’ procedures for ‘the Prom |

cessing of cases of pergons who ‘have renounced: United States na-

 

CONFIDENTIAL ~

 

is similarly concerned that this appears to apply only to an actually:

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId:32212672 Page 3
 

 

 

‘

SONEIDENETAL , ge

   
  

Department by aixeram ¢ on u. 8... citizens abroad;

a. Information concerning U.S. citizens who are approached
by foreign intelligence agencies while abroad;

b. Information on U.S$.. eitizens described in section 938.1
who might constitute a threat to the internal security if and when
_they return to the U.S.; :

“Ce Information concerning the return or intent to return to
the U.S, of~persons who, by their statements and/or actions while
abroad, indicate: :

rep) A desire to renounce U.S, “edtizenship; o

(2) A desire to seek citizenship in any of the countries o
mentioned in section 938.1;

(3) A repudiation of or antipathy for the United States; ot

(4) An intent to remain in any of the countries mentioned “in
section 938.1 for an extended period because of a preference for
the communist - system."

ce : is amending .
. The Passport Office 2, meanwhile, proposes -to-amerd, 8 FAM 225
coe dealing with "Renunciation of he, phage teed 8 EA. 2246,
oo requirement to the effect that, when a U.S. citizen has completed
the procedute vequired to-Yenownee nis Rationality. "the officer
ekecuting-the oath shall submit a statement that the seriousness.
and consequences of the act were explained to the renunciant ‘before
the oath was administered. ‘Any pertinent facts or circumstances
having a bearing on the renunciation and reasons therefore should

. also be reported." A copy of the text of the Proposed amendment
is attached to this memorandum as Attachment B..

 

 

 

 

SCA believes that both these reporting requirements are ine
adequate and should be revised, and SCA is taking steps to have .
that done in the case of '8 FAM 225.6, The difficulty with INR's
requirement in 11 FAM 938 is that it does not cover all disaffected
Americans abroad as such, ‘While 938.1 states that the FBI is.
interested in all such cases, the actual reporting requirement,

5 ole to disaffected Americans in only
persons "who might constitute a
‘threat to the internal. security if and whensthey return to the
U.S.,” and if the ‘possibility has. arisen. of their "return ov,
| . intent to return to the U.S." SCA believes‘the reporting requirement
' should be applicable to all Americans abroad who fall within 938.1
or, more specifically, within categories (1), (2), (3), or (4):
of 938.2(c), whether or not the reporting officer judges that they
might constitute a threat to the internal security/i d when they
return to the United States, and whether or not they, have indicated
an intention to return, It would seem obvious us that/Compreheneive,
i unqualified, and unequivocal requirement of the type suggested is
: more consistent with the Task Force's objective of closing all
mo : loopholes ‘than As. the requirement as. Present ly Monded, ’ Moreover,

  

 

 

‘ while the - terest

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL -

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

AW 54653 DocId:32212672 Page 7
 

 

i
:
|

 

    

HW 54653

 

CONFIDENTIAL, © ga

The Clearance Section of the Passport Office immediately
inserts the card in the Lookout File. In addition, a form
(Lookout Sheet) giving all the particulars of the loan and the

date the card was inserted in the Lookout File, is placed in
the individual's passport folder or if none exists then in the -
current name file of the Passport Office, — _——

When a repatriation loan has been repaid the Office of -
Finance prepares a list showing the name, date and place of birth,
the amount of the. loan and the date of its liquidation, This’ .°
list is forwarded to the Clearance Section of the Passport Office,

This Section then removes the IBM card (Form No, 5081)
from the Lookout File, A notation is made on the card that the
loan has been repaid and the date the notice of such action was
received in the Passport Office. This card is then incorporated

into the individuals passport folder.

SCA is prepared to make available to the Task Force as supple-
ments to this-memorandum, if they should be desired, copies of.
the following items: so , oe : ;

1) Instruction 2300,3, issued by the Passport Office on
February 20, 1964, establishing responsibilities and prescribing
procedures for the operation and maintenance of the Lookout File;

ii) Attachment 1 to Instruction 2300.3, supra, covering the
preparation of Lookout Cards; : a : :

iii) Attachment 2 to Instruction 2300.3, supra, describing
the manner tn which a passport application 1a cleared against
the Lookout File, : ;

  

 

neies Noted in the Oswald Case Corrected

The Report of the Warren Commission states that "The opera~
tion of the ‘lookout card' system in the Department of State.was -
obviously deficient...." These deficiencies were evidenced by.
the facta that: (1) no lookout card was in the file during the
period when Oswald's citizenship was in doubt; (2) no lookout
card was in the file during the period when the repatriation
loan had been granted to him and remained. unpaid; and (3):a per-
manent lookout card should have been in the file characterizing -.
Oswald as a 'defector', Do . :

3. Deficie

; The correction of défietenctes (1) and (3), relating -to ©
doubtful citizenship and the “defector characterization, will be

discussed in the next -

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId: 32212672 Page 5
 

 

 

HW 54653

 

“s

‘CONFIDENTIAL

 

@morandum, relating to .
The second deficiency, —

discussed in the next seetion of thts

_ motice of disaffected Americans sbroad,
with regard to the absence of lookout card in connection with
an unpaid repatriation loan has been corrécted. In the Oswald _
case, the Passport Office Mid not prépare a lookout card on the’
repatriation loan because Oswald's date of birth was not among .
the information furnished ‘to the office by ACD/RR in the Office

 

 

issued instructions to all Diplomatic and Consular posts abroad les
to provide the complete’name, date, and place of birth of an indi-

Mee vidual applying fora repatriation loan, The Office of Finance.

- accordingly supplies this information to the Passport Office, ‘and
the Passport Office is able to prepare and post an appropriate _
lookout card. The information supplied to PPI by OF does not;
however, include the date the loan was granted. It is thus:
impossible at present to determine whether there is an undue. d
dn getting the notice of the lodn to PPT, Mr. Reeley of ACD/RBR®
reports that it would be easy étidugh to include the date of the

   
 

 

done.

 

C, Information Concerning Disaffected Americans Abroad.

SCA defines thé category of "disaffected Americans -abroad"
as including those who have renounced or attempted to renouncé |
their American citizenship, those who have defected to a Come :
munist-dominated country, and those who have in any other manner
given evidence of disaffection with or hostility to the United.”
States, : so eS a .

‘1. Reporting of Such Cases by, Posts Abroad

The Foreign Affairs Manual, apparently contains two reporting,
requirements applicable to cases of disaffected Americans abroad,’ .
11 FAM 938, as revised May.15, 1964, which is attached to the
memorandum submitted to thé Task Force by INR, dated November -4,
1964, on the subject of "INR/DDC Procedure for the Handling of
Intelligence on Disaffected U.S. Citizens Abroad," reads as. °
follows: Ct : a coe

"938 Federal Bareau of Investigation ; oe

"938.1 Disaffection of U.S. Citizens Abroad oy
EO Oh ae beeen Abroad ok
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has a continuing interat
in U.S. citizens who travel abroad, particularly to SinoSoviet “Bloc
countries, or Cuba or Yugoalavia,.and who, by their actions and/or’
statements while abroad, indicate a disaffection for the United: -
States. While the Bureau's responsibilities do not include in-.
.quiries into the ac ities of such, persons while they ate abroad,
it does have an interest in certain of these ‘individuals when, they
. return to the U.S... a ot Ca ee
938.2 Reporting Rei uirement
. Overgeas posts shall: submit. thé. following
ee Be CONRTDENTTAR 2

of

 

  

ak

      

loan in the information supplied, It is recommended that thid. be oye

    

J). of Finance, . On April 16, 1964, however, the Office of Finance!)

a

 

 

 

DocId:32212672 Page 6

 

 

 
 
    
 
      
    
    
  
   
      
     
      
       
    
  
 
     
    
  
   

‘DEPARTMEN NT OF STATE :
ADMINISTRATOR

 Burgan of Security and Consular Affairs oe,
~ CONFIDENTIAL, rr reer
MEMORANDUM FOR; Mro Robert Francis, Warren Report * Task Foree

 

 
 

4 oe
ars Ch

FROM: SCA : a Co o oe
i ; “BUBIECT : Aspects. of Warren-Report Subject Matter Within we
poet . : Jurisdiction of SCA - .

“Te DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ON POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS PERSONS —

Ay “EBL Requests for Information on Travel of "Subversives" Abroad a

Bt . "de: quests by the FBI for information on ‘the - foreign tiaval. of -
_ '.  Amerie4n "subversives" are received in the Department by INR.: The .
oe INR/DDC memorandum to the Task Force dated November 4, 1964, |”

describes’ as follows the routing of the FBI request to PPT and- Oo
. 0 possibly also to SCA, the dispatch of an appropriate notice ta: ‘the :
oo Lot field _by PPT, and the routing of any information received from‘:

  

_ fteld. in, reply:

 
    

"Borma 1 memo ‘from EBI-Me Hoover to INR-Mr Pughes indie.
that an individual intends { to travel abroad, The. ‘Bureatt ants:

 

inf ormat ton.’ °

 

- 80 coe 4, :
a ol ‘ "In the case of significant travelers, ae copy. is made ims -
: f- “+ “mediately available to SCA-Mr, Schwartz and: the country desk in ;
ape, _ , volved. (If neceasary, either INR/DDC-Mr. Ekern or Mr; MacDonald-

should be advised of the ‘travel notices) SCA will note, and pass” cee
_to _PPL/LS for action, . , . :

 

  

 

"Te the travel is of no’ apparent. stant ftcance, sapies should
Bo direct: to. PPT/LS and the. desk involved.

 

Be "In any case, PPT/LS will send appropriate notice. ‘to the
a : ' field, sending INR a duplicate copys :

  

"IPS copy should be given to’ ‘country desk analyst. =

"Tg information comes in: from the’ field, PPT/LS will send us
two copies, One copy will be. given to, INR /DDG for handling to us
the FBI, or, if urgent, hand-carried. or alert. telephone.call

will be “made, The second copy. will be- imeorporated in the indi vos
viduals "39" file, “ . / ae ot ao

le not indicated oxhervtse, a copy will go to cra/ppP/cr;" w.

 

“ROUT. ce fis
Excluded from automatic downgrading and deelaget fication, ee

. CONFIDENTIAL,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 54653 DocId:32212672 Page 2
 

 

JFK Assassination System : Date: 7/22/201
Identification Form :

Released under the John
Kennedy

Agency Information

AGENCY: DOS . Assassination Records
RECORD NUMBER: — 179-40007-10320 ollection act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
RECORD SERIES: LOT 85D275: RECORDS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD Fase#: NW 54653 Date:

HO-23-2017

   

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM: SCA
TO: FRANCIS, ROBERT

TITLE :

DATE: — 11/23/1964
PAGES: 17

SUBJECTS :
WARREN REPORT SUBJECT MATTER IN JURISDICTION OF
SCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
» RESTRICTIONS: —1C; 5
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : FOLDER: PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION, DEPARTMENT REVIEW OF REPORT; BOX 002

 

v9.1 ; . 1

HW 54653 DocId:32212672 Page 1
 

 

“

 

: :

54653 Docld:32212672 Page 3

 

CONFIDENTIAL ag

 

Within SCA, the routing of the ‘outgoing notice by which PPL.
asks the posts to advise concerning the "subversive" peraon's ~
activities abroad, and of any incoming reports in reply, has been

subject since . August .27, 19645, to the following rules:

1, Two copies of any outgoing message are to be routed ‘by
the action officer in PPT/LS to INR/DDC and one copy to SCA,

2 With respect to incoming reports of this nature from -
posts abroad which indicate that thay have not been sent to INR/DDC’
and SCA, PPI is to take immeidate action to see that such messages
“are routed to INR/DDC and SCA, . ; :

3. With respect to any incoming reports from the posts, they ,
will be transmitted to FBI by INR/DDC and not by PPT, because of .. -
the coordinating responsibility of INR/DDC with.respect to this. ‘
type of activity. ce : wo ce ;

Under the procedure that prevailed prior to August 27, 1964,
it appears that INR was generally not on distrubution of such
- messages. being dispatched or received by PPT, and that SCA was not
‘always. on distribution of them either, At present, however, the
distribution for all outgoing airgrams includeg SCA, INR and the
FBI, and hence these same offices will normally be on distribution °
for the incoming replies as well, However, offices on distribution
for the outgoing message will automatically be on distribution for .
the incoming one as well only if the incoming message refers by
number to the outgoing one; where this is not done, RM/R reports
that it assumes no responsibility for routing the incoming message
to the same ‘offices that saw the outgoing one, To close this loop-
hole, it is recommneded that PPT be instructed to include in its
airgrams to the field an express statement that any replies should
refer by number to the outgoing request, PPT has already been in-
structed to check the routing-on all incoming messages of this nature
and make sure that it includes INR/DDC and SCA, and PPT reporte tha t .
this is being done,. SS : .

B. ,Information Concerning Repatriation Loans _
"1, The Lookout File in the Passport Office

The fact that an unpaid-repatriation loan {a outstanding in
the name of an American citizen will cause the Passport Office ;
to deny that citizen's application for a new or renewed passport».
With citizens who have unpaid repatriation loans, as, alao with :
those who have renounced or attempted to renounce their American .
nationality or have otherwise evidenced disaffection with the |
_ United States, and with those whose files contain other reasons

oo that would: cause

   
 
 

 

 
 

|
|
|
I.
|
t

 
 
 
 

HW 54653

“that would cause them ‘to be denied the routine issuance of a.

' is in or is the cause of 4 aituation damaging to the prestige !

“an affirmation that he will repay the loan, and his understanding

  
 

the United States is liquidated,

‘coded and punched with all the pertinent particulars - namé, date,

_ of the particulars,

 

     

O° CONFTDENTTAL SE

4 . i

“passport -- in all such cases, the. Passport Office relies upon -
‘tts "Lookout File" to bring. the. difficulty to light before a new
Passport is issued, A description of the "Lookout File’ ig |.
attached’ to this memorandum as. Attachment A .

 
  

2. Operation of ‘the tria-

tion Loan Notices
aton Moan Notices

‘Volume 7. Foreign Affairs Manual, Section 423 sets forth the
criteria and Procedures for granting financial assistance loang for
the repatriation of destitute United States nationals, oo

In general, Foreign Service Posts are authorized to grant
such loans where (1) It 1a shown the national will suffer undue
hardship and no other source of funds is available; or (2) ha.

of the United States, |

The Office of Special Consular Services of the Department ‘
must approve lor, obtain the approval. of/all- repatriation loang, .

In requesting a loan the national must execute an application
form, giving among other items: his name, place and date of birth,

“that after hia repatriation he will not be furnished a passport for.
travel abroad until his obligation ta reimburse the Treasurer of

~~ When the loan granted the recipient executes a promiagory
note, which includ statement that. he understands he will not
be furnished a pasaport for travel abroad until his obligation ig
liquidated, Posts have been instructed by Circular Airgram to
include the date and place of birth of the recipient on both the
promissory note and the application for financial assistance,
This information is forwarded to the Office of Finance of the Dea
partment. See the memorandum on "United States Government's -
Repatriation Loan Program" dated November 4, 1964, from OF :ACD/RR
to OF:ACD, which has been circulated among members of the. Task
Force, : : ; vs

 

 

As the means of not d fying the Passport Office of the extension
of the loan the Office of Finance hand delivers to the. Glearance
Section of the Passport Office an, IBM (Lookout) card -(Form 5081) .
and place of birth, ete -: placed thereon. by the Department's. Auto~
matic Data Processing Office,’ The cards are accompanied ‘by a listing |

 

The clearance section
CONFIDENTIAL = eo ae

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId:32212672 Page 4
