In Reply, Please Refer to to
File No.

 

 

 

_ SECRET
UNITE. STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS iCE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON @& D.c.: 20535
March 10, 1964

MILOSLAV CHROBOK (w
INTERNAL SECURITY - CZ_

A confidential informant furnished the following
information March 9, 1964, which he obtained as the result:
of a recent meeting with¥liiloslav Chrobok, Third retary,
‘Embassy of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, YU):

source discussed the J Ruby trial in Da
shrobo! tated that he”“is convinced that Jack Ruby and and -
e Harvey Oswald were working together. He also said

At the the dagiet of the meeting, Guroponbane the D4

7 that he believes that Ruby killed Oswald for undisclosed
-individuals and that both Ruby and Oswald we: part of: a A<|

conspiracy to assassinate John F, Kennedy. hrobokenext
discussed the forthcoming political campaign in™ the, United
States and stated that he believed that Henry Cab: dge

stood an excellent chance of winning the New Ham shire: Shetavo.-(> vate |

primary election. He said that he believed Lodge’ to be

extremely strong and that he felt that he would make an.

excellent Presidential candidate, He asked the source

who he believed the Republican candidate’ ‘would be,  -Thé’

source replied that he believed the former Vice President,
Richard n would eventually get the Republican =

~ nomin aA cee okkreplied that he did not believe this ARQ
would happen because of his loss, in his attempt to be

elected Governor of California, (U). : :

The subject next discussed with the source a
paper prepared by the source[conceni ing the Slovak Uprising
of 1944 Chrobok said that was a well prepared paper
and well documented, He said that he had read it, but.
desired to look it over some more and asked if he ’ might
keep it another week or so. The source replied that he
could and Chrobok said that he would return it at their
next meeting. .The source then asked Chrobok what he was

X

. oe
CLASSIFIED BY S@ee Supe
DECLASSIFY OX: 25X He .
. -) YS2

 

(GED

   
 

SECRET

 

 

 

Docld: 32177778 Page 5
 

 

a SECRET ~

fi MILOSLAV cxmoson fee f w)

doing” ‘at that time and he replied that lie | was Living with
his parents near Gstrava, Czechoslovakia.|@He stated that
his father was working in the coal mines there, but did
not state whether or not his father was actually a miner
or handling administrative type work, Chrobok continued
stating that he was thirteen years old at this time and.
that he worked as a shepherd attending cattle herds’ ~
during this period, He said that he was not. exposed to
any of the fighting which went on in Czechoslovakia during

World War IT. G@)

Chrobok gave the source a copy of the Czech —
newspaper. "Kulturni Tvorba," which according to the. source
means cultural creation, This. paper was dated January 1, —
1964, ‘The subject stated that it contained an article ‘which
he felt the source should be interested in. This article
was entitled "Problems with Figures" and was written by an
individual named Milan Plachky. This article was extremely
critical of the statistics presented by the Czechoslovak
Government concerning the amount of money expended for.
educational purposes in Czechoslovakia as compared to that
spent in the United States, It stated that these figures
were false and misleading and that in proportion to the
United States, the Czechoslovak expenditures were much —
lower than had been presented to the Czechoslovak people,
The source stated that this was ahother instance whereby
the Czechoslovak people, particularly those of Slovak
origin, Cay eine their criticism of the current
regime BOC .

Chrobok suggested to the source that he night
prepare an article for publication in Czechoslovakia; ~ They
briefly discussed this matter and the source stated that he
would consider preparing an articie(oa the Twentieth
Anniversary of the Slovak Uprising of 1944 and how this
uprising’ atfected Czechoslovakia' s history. 5a)

. At the conclusion of the meeting, Chrobok:
requested the source to obtain for him, if possible, a
current telephone directory of [the United States Infor-
mation Agency The source replied that he did not know SH)

2
SECRET

 

DoclId: 321777768 Page 6

 
 

 

oa A . ” poy
aa (Rev, 10-29-63)g eg | Myr, Tolson_..— .
‘ ae in me i Mr. Belmont...
_— Se r
ore \
Hoo 8 \
° . , FBI

Date: 3/10/64

 

   
   
    

 

 

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

  

Wa
: Yele. Reom... f
Ati iss Holmes_

 

(Priority)

      
        
 
   

 

 

    

SSIFIED BY SG6& Sto,

DECLASSIEY Ob): 25%_. 2K OO. |

— Enclosed are the original and four copies of a

e ad M and an equal number of evaluation memos settin

} “ [the results of a meeting between the subject and“ WF Bor

: e evening of (3/ 4, This meeting was schéeduléa_-for

(s/ 28 64, but subject’ Pailed to appear. Informant advised
that on the afternoon of[3/2}g4, he was contacted at his
office by subject and a meeting was scheduled for the
evening of [3/6K64. Informant was contacted on(3/ ak ie at
which time he w instructed to attempt to engage Lee
in conversation concerning bis background and family history.

Tt was anti igated that this subject could be diseussed me n Msned

E: c Pestits-ef discussing a paper_prepared by the
form concerning the {Slovak uprising] in Czechoslovakia

a 1944, s) ; )

ReWFOairtel 3/2/64.

ns — TE

oy

 

wet T

          

PMERUOEDED 2

ject and informant met in front of the [Penn ve
Theater, 65 mnnsylvania Ave., S.E., at<7:00 p.m. on the’
) wy? evening of (3/6¥64. Subject took informant acr = the ;

      
 

street to the aring Twenties Restaurant, 63 mnosylvania ,y,
Ave,,. 8.E., where > ney remained until approximately 8:50 p.m4

¢ SABER "Yiae.

 
   

    

  
 

poh Ges
: an

  

GBS -/22/67- BL

 

 

 

 

DoclId: 321777768 Page 2

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10193-10026
’ RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-122167-36

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, WMFO
TO; DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1964

PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: JR, TRIAL, ASSOC WITH LHO, CONSPR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL NEW

CLASSIFICATION:  S“*rt CLASSIFICATION: -
REVIEW DATE: 10/23/1998 UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001
STATUS — Redact ;
- RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS: INC LHM

Docld: 321777768 Page 1
 

 

wrofi0s-54592 Ww

As noted in the LHM,{ subject suggested to informant
that he might desire to prepare an article for publication
in a Czech periodical. The informant stated that prior to
this discussion with subject, that he had thought of this
tter and was considering preparing an article concerning
[Ene twentieth anniversary of the Slovak uprisin He said
j hat he also considered writing a figtional type article
setting forth the activities of the{first day the uprising ,[S)
| He commented that as{a.leader of this uprisings felt well
i qualified to write on it and felt that his article would
receive publication in Czechoslovakia, providing he did not
appear to be toocritical of the Communist Party (CP).
i Informant expressed some hesitation as to whether or not
he should prepare this article because of the fact that he
S an employee of the Federal Government |S)He said that he
elt that some people in the U.S. would attempt to get him
f in trouble with his employment if he prepared such an article.
Informant was instructed that the FBI could not tell him what
to do in this matter, but it was suggested that{he contact
the Security Officer at the Bureau of the Censu ad tell
him of his plans. Informant was also instructed“tiot to @)
mention (Eo this officer his association with the subject
f his cooperation with the FBI, Informant stated that he Would
! ot take any steps on this subject without checking with
is Security cer} and he would advise of the results of
this meeting 5 :

It is further noted in the LHM that subj -
retained informant's thesisf{on the Slovak uprising .&/He
failed to give a reason for keeping the paper. It is
noted that on 3/3/64, CS CG go ‘learned that subject
was to Heliver a speech on the 25tiinsh Anniversary of
the Nazi Occupation of Czechoslovakia and its subsequent
effect upon Eastern European history. It is possible that |
subject retained informant's paper in orger to plagiarize
informant's work for use in his speech,

pales

The names furnished subject by informait as

| Geople working in his sectiqixere CESTMIRA*JESINA, a :
%echoslovak exile and STEPHAN,BAPAWY, a Ukranian tag lcs SLE:

i . Subject failed to write these names down and did not appear

t 2 too concerned over them, Accordingly, WFO will take no

J he further action concerning these “thom. Bay unless subject

 

 

 

makes further inquiry concerning them,

-

a, -2-

SECRED

 

 

DoclId: 32177776 Page 3
 

 

 

 

wrofios-54502 fee)

 

; “SAS, -
Gro wii ces the telephone directory requested by

WFO will request glearance for passage of this director
by separate communication 3)

subject,

' The next meeting between subje and informant is
cheduled for 7:00 p.m..on the evening of /13Y64 at
[Pennsylvania and Alabama|Avenues, Ss. E )

relates to a current(double agent operation d the
evaluation memo is classified "Confidentia because
it reveals investigative interest in a foreign diplo-
matic official.

The LHM is classified "Secret" fina t it

 

vty

 

 

 

Docld:

32177776 Page 4
