uni ti@ states DEPARTMENT OF S@rice oo oy

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

seme in Reply, Please Refer wo
Fue No. . Dallas, Texas
November 27, 1964

Title ‘ _ "MINUTEMEN"

Character INFORMATION CONCERNING
(INTERNAL SECURITY)

 

‘eet Reference ' Letterhead Memorandum dated
November 27, 1964.

oe All sources (except any listed below) whose identities
are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

 

Dallas T-1 is a source with whon insufficient contact
‘has been had to make a determination of his reliability.

 

-

   

Se This document contains neitber recommendations nor conclusions
Sirgeege Oi the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
i your. agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

 
oe (QUT = gw

On November 25, 1964, a review of appropriate city .
directories reflected the following infcrmation re W. Alfred .
. Winder. Winder is a lawyer with cffices in tbe Ellison Building,
103B Main, Rocm 311. Wife's name is Lola and residence is 4202
Pershing Avenue.

 

 

-To

   

I }—-Pocld: 32246018-; Payge-é - TET Team mes peee

Ltt meet

   
.

ww
MEMBER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

 
  
  

HW 54653: DocIa:3

Lo Nearest relative is Mrs. Rosie ‘Turpin, 3529 James Lane, Wire’ 5

Ze ri ae

ra oe pes . —

eee,

~~.

ptr

RE _"MINUTEMEN" Vrs vid bee Me hia ba
Aish

On November 9, 1964, Operator 52, Fort Worth Retail .
Merchants Credit Bureau, 508 Commerce, furnished the following
information regarding Van_ Walle Pollard, current address 3421 _
Hanger. Pollard was born in 1923, Fort Worth, married, wife -
“Patricia in 1955. Currently employed by Maremont Corporation,
which is also known as Exchange Parts Motors in the Quality
Control Section. Pollard has been so. employed since April, 1956.

    

nearest relative, Mr. B. B.i Roberts Eldorado, “Téxas .

 

On November 11, 1964, a telephone call to the Maremont
Corporation, Fort orth, "Texas, verified Van Pollard's employment

at that mpncy. Pets Fe. Cee GO Rae 7 peed, be
oD typhi \ of Bee ets an vee Te fe:

  
 

wis

60 November 13, ‘sar wr “YM, Young, Terrant ng, Terrant County
Sheriff's Office, Identification Division, advised he had no
record identifiable with William #. Seale. In reference to
Richard W. Dawson, a Richard Never Walter- ‘Dawson was received in
1941 on a burglary charge and thereafter “received a two year
suspended sentence, Dawson's address at that time was 2912 West
Lancaster. Notations in the file indicated Dawson had been
handled several times as a juvenile, Tarrant County Sheriff's
Office #10705, Fort Worth Police Department #13945, FBI No. 3950242.

/ : :

On November 19, 1964, Operator 4, Fort Worth Retail
Serchants Credit Bureau, 508 Commerce, advised they had no
record regarding Richard W. Dawson.

/

On November 19, 1964, F. M, Alexander, Identification
Division, Fort Worth Police Department, advised he had no record
re William H. Seale and made available the following information
concerning Richard W.’.Dawson: White male American, born July 14,
_1926, Leavenworth, Kansas, handled as a juvenile for burglary.” A
~on ‘November 14, 1941, at which time he received a two year susperded
sentence, It is noted Dawson was 15 at the time. Dawson picked
up as subject of several investigations between 1941 and 1946,
but no charges filed. Last notation in record was 1951, chauffeur’ 8
Fort Worth, 5 _ Address listed at that time as 2820 Northwest 29th,
Fort Worth. . ;

 

 

 

Current Fort Worth phone directory reflects Richard ¥.
Dawson, Highway 121, telephone BU 1-1740. Current City Directory
reflects no information re Richard W, Dawson.

 

ne ser ER
a : e

i ©@ @ :

Secu: RE; "MINUTEMEN”

 

Dallas T-1 advised that it is suspected that a Dallas” .
gunsmith by the name of Join Thcemras- Mazen is at least sympathetic
to the purposes of this ‘group, aithough he is not known by Dallas T-1
to be a member of the organization. This belief is based on the
ww. %act that Dallas T-1 has in the past seen Masen in the company of
_ Bill Seals. .

  

—— On November 19, 1964, Dallas T-2 and Dallas T-~3, seurces ..
“=~ which have knowledge of Nation of Islam activities in Fort Worth :i2--
. _, end Dallas areas, individually advised that they had no information
seis paAncerning the connection of a Madison’ “Hogan with Nation of Islam

oe

 

activities in the Fort Worth-DalTas area.
Soe Par
On November 19, 1964, Lieutenant z. F. Hopkins and
Vv. T. Summers, Intelligence Unit, Fort Worth Police Department,
advised they had no information concerning activities of a
Minutemen group or of a group Simikrly inclined in the Fort Worth
area,

— 4
Je

 

 

- BACKGROUND RE INDIVIDUALS ALLEGEDLY MEMBERS OF ALLEGED MINUTEKEN. GROUP

On November 6, 1964, a check of current Fort Worth

directories reflected no information concerning a Otto Koling
or Bi s . 4 fhe
Or Moot ph oe ob “a Deira, Forint ee

—On- November 6, 1964; Operator 98, r 98, Fort Worth Retail
Merchants Credit Association,: 508 Commerce, advised that agency
had no record re Otto Koling. Operator 98° advised, however,
euive pthat the following iaformaticn pertained to a- ‘Arthur Austin’
imate wollard, Married to Betty Jane Noles, reviously married “to
LIL His nearest relative is Mamie (Gaines, 3432 Hanger Street<:
wWaksmee ‘Ertbur. “Poliard was born September “15; “1934, ‘and served in the
ees United States Marine Corps from July’ 25, 1952 until July 24, 195°,

  

   

 

 

Hoaf. “ua California, USHC, and was last caploved by Exchange Parts,
Fort horth,~in the assembly section, Social Security Number 455- 46-
936, Current draft Btatus IV-A. aa :
wo fh Get :

‘ ape "On Hocchber 6, 1964, Operator 98 furnished the folicwing
wep eeenré (Shirley. Bob; Renshaw. Wife’ Marion Helen, previously married to
Wee BM Helen; ‘Sullivaz. Is Septenber, 1963, Reushaw was the assistant

  
 
 

 

         

fees Re! penager “of Sky Dobpy Shop aad app arently is mow employed with ;
hy che wd wp7
Meche Teel oy
wee

 

“eowniae :

 

 
f

Ll @

   

RE: "“MINUTEMEN™

"Abe Terrell". In March, 1964 he lived at 2341 Harris Lane,
having moved there from 2603 German in Waco, Texas. Renshaw
apparently moved to Waco, Texas in September, 1963, returning
Merch, 1964 to Harris Lane address. Renshaw formerly was
employed with Cromer Ace Company, Fort Worth, Texas, and is
approximately 32 years of age. oe

: On November 6, 1964, F. M, Alexander, Identification
Division, Fort Worth Police Department, advised he had no record
identifiable with Bill Seals or Otto Koling.

 

On October 28, 1964, G. Blasingame, Identification
Division, Fort Worth Police Department, advised he had no record
re Arthur Pollard or Shirley Bob Renshaw.

On November 10, 1964, Joe George, Security Division,
“Montgomery Ward's, 2600 West 7th Street, Fort Worth, Texas, advised
Bill Seal had worked in the Montgomery tard Auto Service: Department,
October 14, 1964, when he was transferred to Palm Center, Montgomery
Ward at Houston, "Texas. The manager of Palm Center store is
A. L. James. Seal‘ S personnel record was sent to Houston on his
trensfer. George waS not personally acquainted with Seal.

On November 10, 1964, Operator 54, Fort Worth Retail
Merchants Credit Association, 508 Commerce, advised that agency
had no information regarding Bill Seals, Seal or Seale. It is
noted that the current Fort Worth City Directory reflects William
H. Seale, 2185 Weatherbee, aS working for Auto Service ~ Ward's.

 

ata On Noveaber 9, 1964, C, Fowler, Identification Division,

pes Fort Worth Police Department, advised re Van Wiley Pollard that
satiety’ Said individual had been arrested February 11, 1945, by the Police
ae Department, for Theft of Goverriment Proverty and was released
BEREAL- to the custody of the U. S, Marshal. At that time Pollard was
“22 years of age, 5'8", 135 pounds, brown eyes, brown hair, He had
: Fort Worth Police Departnent #54786, Records further reflect
‘that in 1952, Pollard was an applicant for city employment,

Waste Disposal Division,

  

 
 
 
 
 

 

On November 9, 1964, W, M, Young, ‘Identification Division,

Tarrant County- Sherif?'s Office, adviecd he had no record concerning —

Baw n= Van Wiley Pollard. . : .
ee

 

‘S657 “Ddtld: 32248018 Page 6 ween mmr me eS mememnrmenrmneng ane ees

  
ig re ’ 1
@ _ @ i
UNITiLG STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE y

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please Refer to : : . -
File No. Dellas, Texas co
; November 27, 1964
~ "MINUTEMEN™

: The following information was. furnished on November 19°
~ and 24 by Dallas T-1. .

seen Dallas T-1 advised tbat Dallas T-1 is presently a
ahem “menber of a group referred to as the "Minutemen" and "American
Underground" and has been so since approximately 1962. Dallas T-l
advised that the organization is nationwide with approximately”
fifteen to thirty members in Tarrant County. Dallas T-1 stated
that the name of the organization as suchas only been used twice
in two years and that proper names are seldom, if ever, used -

 

wn ene

(UNTEATION

wa
Teri

 

   

 

 

   
   
 
 
  

. tw 4
ti and that this makes it very difficult to determine identities of Ot
- members. Dallas T-l advised that the following are currently ef
: wembers of the organization: ; bles a!
: - - : Piatra =f, & rae ee) ree EI
Seas Womdee Fes aA oie ee et a!
—_—_—_— Arthur Pollard, 2707 Berryhill Drive, Fort Worth, Texas © ;
Otto” (Duke)/ Koling and Shirley Bob Renshaw,” 2341. Harris. & i
_-« “Dane, Haltom City, Texas, who lives with! Koling. as
eels : Billv-Seals, employed at Montgomery Ward's and recently a
ype “t¥ansterred to Montgomery Ward's, Houston, Texas,_ S;
Set Van Pollard, 3421 Hanger, Fort Worth, ‘Texas. , gy
yO ——_"
Closely associated with the organization” ‘and “perhaps
-  Bember is Richard W. Dawson, who lives on Highway 121 on the
‘gic. Outskirts of Fort Worth and who has formerly lived in the neighbor—__
‘iiener ~ ~ood of 2820 Northwest 29th in the early 1950's. Dallas T-1 . . _
dvised that an attorney whom members of the group have been Fo
is W, Alfred)Windor, ~~

oe @vised to contact if “they get into trouble",

Ske with offices in the Ellis Building in Fort Worth, ’ Dallas T-1 ”

— a

ee vrganization, UW. Aifee Xs wae Pp

. Dallas Tel advised the primary purpose of the organization i
wa» ts tO fight against the present Federal control of national and .
EEE Jon 2} Governments and to fight for "States’ rights". The group is .

alma : C8} NFTI DENTIAL goldte ce. -~Y29% Geechee ne
| GROUP 2 Joel worth lev VAS
excluded from automatic on

downgrading and
doclassification

        
  

   
     
 
     

This document contains neither recommendations no-
conclusions of the FEI. It is the property of th
FBI and is loa to your agency. It and its
contents are 9 distributed outside your

agency, URE 1 0 -/E.

Page 2

         
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/1/201

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBIECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10078-10076

NUMBERED FILES
009963

Document Information

FBI

11/27/1964
8

"AMERICAN UNDERGROUND"
"MINUTEMAN"

WALKER, EDWIN

NATIONAL FIREARMS ACT

POLITICAL AND SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
"RAY"

REPORT
Confidential
2

Redact
09/03/1998

Tabbed 183-18. Box 183.

AW 54653 DocId:322468018 Page 1

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:iNiW 54653 Date:
HO-23-2017

 
 

RE:  "MINUTEKEN™

/Bupposedly national in origin and believes that the Federal
Government is in the process of seliizg out to the communist’ and
that the group’is tbe iast line of defense against this sellout,
The group secondsrily is racial in that it believes in white —
Bupresacy. Dallas T-1l advised that the organization suffered a’
Bea-+ Severe setback because of the assassination of President Kennedy
‘Dut now is attemsting a full-scale reorganization. Tne group
- recruits basicaliy from those who do not have criminal records
and is organized in such a manner that no one is supposed to know
. the names of other members in the organization. Tris is to prevent
?fective infiltration by the Government. Dallas T-1 advised
that the group has ro immediate plazs for action, but that
“several times locally this greup has determined to act on their
own and this action has beer curtailed because of orders relaved
from higher autnority in the organization. These higher authorities
~ a, are unknown to Dallas T-1, except that a person by the name of
yRay Olast name unknewn) at the ranch in the vicinity of Venus,
Texas, appears to be in contact with the group's orgenizational
“Téaders. Ray is described a5 a personal and close friend of
— retire? Gezeral Edwin Walker and about cone and one-half to tro
years ago waS eprarertly implicated in Some manner in the burning
of a newspaper in the area of Midlothian, Texas. Ray is also
apparently a warehouse supervisor in Dallas.

 

 

Dallas T-1 also advised he has been recently contacted
by .a man whom he does not know but #ho apparently lives in the
Fort Worth area, and this unknown male advised Dallas T-1 to
disassociate himself with the small group he is now attached to
for the apparent purpose of moving into a pesition of more prominence
~waer—- dm the organization. Dallas T-1 advised that the small group ~
See 4th which be has bees associated is the lowest level in the
. Organization and that their primary purpcese is to do the "dirty
“ work", : . :

 
    
   
 

7 Dallas T-1 stated that the group is also prepared, in
the event cf a Kegro uprising in the Fort Worth ares, to take
faction against various Negro leaders including Dr. Flint, Dr,
. “AFleming and Dr. Ransom, and a Fort Worth hoodlum named Madison Hogan,
- Who iS apparently a Nation cf Islam leader in the Fort Worth arez.

 

= a

CONFIDENTIAL a -

LAWTAEGAS PDocld;32248018 Paye 3

  
va : ate,

RE: "“MINUTEMEN™

Dallas T-1 advised that the only overt action tentatively .
planned for the winter months is that the effect of a .30 celiber :
rifle on power transformers in the area may be testec. Dallas T-1
further stated that the group apparentiy bas a contect with an
individual in northeast Texas who goes by the name of "South".
and that this contact may be utilized in the raiding of a
northeast Texas ermory during the winter months. The primary
jaterest is obtaining mortars and mortar ammunition and automatic
weapons; therefore, Dallas T-1 believes that the armory would
probably be of a tank or infantry group.

Dallas T-1 advised that the group locally ise attempting
to gain control of the Panther City Motorcycle Club for the purpose
of gaining land apparently owned by this club, in the area of
Leke Arlington, Texas and thereafter selling this laud and using
the monies therefrom for purchases of the group, ~

Texas, Dallas T-1 further advised that Arthur Pollard has in the
past made trips to Alabama, Wyoming, Montana, California, and that
_y, the group has a contact with an individual by the nase of Jim
¥ Scott in Kansas City. Dallas T-1 advised that he has seen
pamphlets frem national Minutemen headquarters, but that these
dealt primarily with the fighting of any National Firearms Act
which would involve licensing of private weapons.
Va i
Dallas T-l advised that several members of-the group
are personally acquainted with Gensrai Edwin’ Walker and he
apparently has & capacity of being aa advisor. The group does
oer. pot apparently have any consection with the American Nazi perty
or with the Eu Klux Klan. Tne greup is organized into small cell-
““""- -_14ke bodies and the meetings of these are never held on a
_. vegular basis and are generally held in public places at night
von with from five to fifteen people in attendance. Benbrook Lake Park
and Eagle Mountain Lake area have been two places where the group
has met in the past, although often the meeting will be a “moving
- Sne"-in- someone's automobile, The group's meetings 2re never
planned in advance as.far as Dallas T-1 knows, inasmuch as
Dalles T-l is elways notified perscually by someone in the ¢€roup
ae generally withi: an hour to thirty minutes ahead of a meeting
time, and i@ then picked up and taken to the meeting place, Hany
‘ _of the senbers of the group have walkie-talkies although some
x soe members Go not. ‘

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

   

3.

CANFIDENTESL

 

vee permepeetnpny semen nnemee eg re meee ape mete el a ey age oe
“He SH6S3” Docid: Fssas0ie” Page "fee wow see sees
