 

reports. Further, it is recommended that mention of operations having
Les no relationship to the events being considered (é.g. references in the —
na Castro report to Mossadeq and Lumumba) be excised on the basis that
Aie —— the public disclosure of these references could seriously damage the

foreign relations of the United States.

 

 

 

 

As a final measure, it is recommended that the Agency representatives
; responsible for coordinating Administration responses to the Committee's
Yes ——7 request, be convened in"a meéting at which procedures agreed upon at the
outset of the investigation be reaffirmed. That is, that all requests for
information be reported to the Office of White House Counsel and that no
response be provided verbally or in writing to the Committee unless
cleared by the Office of White House Counsel.

 

 

 

 

 

HW 53244) Docld:32105682 Page @
Yes —

 

disclosure by the Director on Friday, May 23, of detailed U.S. Govern-
ment involvement in plots to assassinate Castro, the Administration's
position had been to seek to have this kind of extremely sensitive informa-
tion handled on a close-hold basis with the Chairman and Vice Chairman
of the Committee. The Director's testimony and the subsequent disclosure
of U.S. involvement in coup and assassination planning foreshadows
severe damage to the foreign relations of the United States in the months
ahead, An important collateral impact upon the United States intelligence
system will undoubtedly result from the legislative restrictions that may
be anticipated on future. activities of the CIA and other intelligence gathering
bodies. In addition, a significant threat is posed that public disclosure of
the details of these several operations will compromise and endanger
sensitive sources and methods. Thus, at least three serious areas of
damage maybe anticipated: to the image of the United States abroad and its
foreign relations with specific countries: to the integrity of the U.S. intel-
ligence gathering system; and to sources and methods. It is doubtful that
the Committee would be responsive to an Administration request to limit
the scope of their activities in order to limit the damage that is anticipated
in these three areas. Unfortunately, it is probable that the only deterring
element that will be effective concerns the sensitivity of the Committee to
the disclosure of witting involvement in the planning and execution of these
operations by Cabinet and higher-level officials of the Government.

It is understood that the preliminary report of the Rockefeller Commission
establishes no basis for alleging significant involvement in these operations
of persons outside the CIA. Nor does the documentation thus far available
conclusively demonstrate such involvement. At the same time,it is clear
that we simply do not know exactly how the many decisions were reached
and to what extent non-intelligence persons were involved. In order to
facilitate presenting comprehensive responses to the Committee in this
regard, it is recommended that the agencies involved (DOD, CIA, State,
and the NSC) be tasked immediately to forward all documents which bear

 

 

Ne

SECR NSITIVE . Se, K
Pad

in any way on any phase of the operations in question,

 

With regard to the immediate problem -- following up on Director Colby's
commitment to provide the Inspector General's reports to the Committee --
it is considered unrealistic to expect that this may be avoided. Accordingly,
it is recommended that the three reports (on Castro, Trujillo and Diem)

be delivered to the Chairman. Apart from doing so,however (and in
accordance with procedures accepted by the Chairman), it is recommended
that the names of sources and unwitting participants be excised from the

 

 

 

 
  

Kd

 
 

EXCLY EYES ONLY

%

HW 53244 DocId:32105682 Page 7
 

With regard to the only serious plan, that involving underworld figures,
the following persons were identified as being witting: Alan Dulles, General
Cabel, DDCI; Richard Bissell, Deputy Director for Plans; Richard Helms,
successor Deputy Director for Plans; Sheffield Edwards, Director of
Security; James O'Connell, Office of Security; J.D. Esterline, Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division; Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, Technical
Services Division (TSD);*Ray Treichler, Chemical Division, TSD;
Edward Gunn, Chief, Operations Division, Medical Services Branch;
William Harvey, Chief, Foreign Intelligence (Domestic) Division;

Sydney Gottlieb, Special Assistant to Bissell; Robert Bannerman, Deputy
Director of Security; J.C. King, Chief, Western Hemisphere Division;
Robert Maheu, a private investigator, John Roselli; Sam Giancana; Santos
Trafficante and Antonio Varona (both inside men in Cuba). In addition,
the Agency's General Counsel, Lawrence Houston and Attorney General,
Robert Kennedy learned the full details of the operation in May 1962,
following its termination. It is further speculated that the following per -
sons have learned of the operation in the intervening years: Edward P.
Morgan, Maheu's attorney; columnist Drew Pearson and his partner,

Jack Anderson; Chief Justice Earl Warren; James Rowley, Chief of the
Secret Service, Pat Coyne, Executive Secretary of the PFIAB, Attorney
General, Ramsey Clark;'and various members of the FBI, Virtually all
of the information above, except for the names of the persons involved,
was disclosed during Director Colby's testimony on Friday.

Trujillo Plots

U.S. involvement with local Dominican groups plotting the assassination
of Trujillo‘began in November 1959 and carried through the actual assas-
sination on May 30, 1961. The IG report details the nature of this involve-
ment which included: approval of the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-
. American Affairs (Roy R. Rubottom), and the CIA Division Chief for the
Western Hemisphere for cooperation with dissident Dominican groups
whose objectives were known to both men to include assassination of
Trujillo; approval by these same parties and Deputy Director for Plans
Bissell of the provision of automatic carbine rifles to the dissident groups;
active encouragement by the U.S. Consul. to the dissident groups; and
involvement of a private U.S. citizen in the Dominican Republic as a go-
between for the Consulate with the dissident groups in providing the arms.

With regard to the awareness by higher authorities of this U.S. involvement,
a meeting was held on June 9, 1961 at the Department of State attended by

 

HW 53244 DocId:32105682 Page 5
  
 

ITIVE
EYES ONLY

   

Vice President Johnson, Secretary McNamara, General Lemnitzer,

Under Secretary Bowles, Deputy Under Secretary Alex Johnson, Director
of USIA Edward R. Murrow, Mr. Arthur Schlesinger, Mr. Richard Good-
win, Mr. Ted Achilles, Mr. Wim Coerr, Mr. Morales Carrion, and Mr.
Jamison (Agency unknown). At this meeting Vice President Johnson
referred to a message from Consul: General Deerborn concerning the
possibility of implicating the United States in the delivery of arms to the
dissidents. The Vice President then asked for details as to the timing and
authority for the delivery of the arms. There is no ‘record to indicate that
anyone at the meeting expressed awareness or lack of awareness of U.S.
involvement in the operation. Another memorandum for the record exists
concerning a meeting at the White House on June 7, 1961 chaired by the
President at which the Vice President was also in attendance. Similarly,
at this meeting there was no indication of Presidential or other high level
awareness of U.S, involvement in the operation.

The Diem Coup

The third Inspector General's report (May 31, 1967) details U.S. policy
toward and dialogue with Generals of the South Vietnamese Armed Forces
who successfully conducted the coup against President Diem and his brother
Nhu. on November 1, 1963. The period in question was from August through
October during which time U.S. support shifted away from Diem and to
opposition forces, The record of exchanges makes clear that the decision
to provide U.S, encouragement to opposition forces was taken by the Presi-
dent upon the advice of virtually all members of the bureaucracy with the
notable exception of the DCI and the Station Chief, At the same time, there
was never any consideration or discussion of providing overt or covert
U.S. support for an assassination, There was, however, general recogni-
tion of the fact that the coup, werd'to: take place,could be a violent one. On
the one occasion in which assassination was reported from the field as a
possibility, Director McCone issued a strong warning that no U.S. support
for such an assassination attempt should be considered.

Apart from making clear U.S. support for opposition forces, the IG report
also notes that cross border operations were taking place at this time.

Summary

it is difficult to establish perspective over the Administration's position to
be. taken at this point in the Church Committee's investigation. Prior to the

 

Oy
Seep fay
te,

%

HW 53244 Docld:32105882 Page 6
MEMORANDUM ACeh.

THE WHITE HOUSE

 

WASHINGTON
CTo
ACTION

2 May 27, 1975

ej

o

el

t MEMORANDUM FOR: GENERAL scOWCROFT

[=] ‘

3S /

S FROM: R.C, mei anet7]

t
is SUBJECT: Assassination Plots

On Friday, May 23, Director Colby continued his testimony on covert
actions before the Church Committee. Prior to his appearance, the
Director had been enjoined by Mr. Buchen and Mr, Hills to refrain from
answering questions on assassination plots on the grounds that research
to date on this matter was incomplete and that in the interest of preclud-
ing the risk of damage to persons that could arise from ambiguous
references in the material, additional time would be necessary. During
his appearance, the Director was questioned on the existence in the past
of plots to assassinate Fidel Castro. Notwithstanding the above guidance,
Director Colby elaborated in great detail the involvement of the CIA with
underworld figures in plots to assassinate Fidel Castro during the period
from 1960 until 1965. Following his testimony, the Director provided
copies of two documents: one of these summarized a meeting of the
Special Group (Augmented) in Secretary Rusk's office in August 1962

at which the subject of assassination was raised by Secretary McNamara.
The other document,which flowed from the same meeting, was a tasking
directive written by Major General Edward Lansdale,. which called for
planning in several areas to include the possible "liquidation of Cuban
leaders. '' Since the hearing on Friday, the Committee has also requested
copies of three 1967 reports by the Inspector General of the CIA dealing
with plots to assassinate Castro, Trujillo and Diem, This memorandum
addresses the contents of those reports as a basis for reaching decisions
on the Administration's response to the Committee's request.

Plots Against Castro

The Inspector General's report treats exhaustively all written and oral
evidence available in 1967 concerning various plots to assassinate Fidel
Castro, From the report, the following facts based upon incontrovertible
evidence, are clear:

 

HW 53244 DoclId:32105682 Page 2
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System Date:
Identification Form

Agency Information

DAVIS
178-10004-10136

GENERAL SUBJECT FILE

8/27/201

 

INTEL.INVESTIGATIONS--MISC. B, 3/75-6/15/75

 

Document Information

WH
MC FARLANE, ROBERT C.
SCOWCROFT, BRENT

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

05/27/1975
7

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
ORGANIZED CRIME

MAHEU, ROBERT

KENNEDY, ROBERT

EXECUTIVE ACTION CAPABILITY

CUBAN EXILES
COLBY, WILLIAM

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Lssassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Note).
Pase#t: NW 53244 Date: 06-12-2017

 

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

CHURCH COMMITTEE
CIA

MEMORANDUM
Secret

1A

Redact
08/09/1993

 

vot

29

HW 53244 DocId:32105682 Page 1

 
 

-- CIA twice (first in early 1961 and again in early 1962) supplied
lethal pills to U.S. gambling syndicate members working in
behalf of CIA in a plot to assassinate Fidel Castro. The 1961
plot aborted and the pills were recovered. Those furnished in
1962 were passed by the gambling syndicate representative to
a Cuban exile leader in Florida, who in turn had them sent to
Cuba in May 1962. In June 1962 the exile leader reported that
a team of three men had been dispatched to Cuba to recruit for
the operation. If the opportunity presented itself, the team was

.to make an attempt on Castro's life.-- perhaps using the pills.

-- As mentioned above, there was a meeting of the Special Group
(Augmented) in Secretary Rusk’s conference room on 10 August
1962 at which Secretary McNamara broached the subject of
liquidation of Cuban leaders. The discussion resulted ina
memorandum under a program designated Project Mongoose
.prepared by General Edward Lansdale which also mentioned the
liquidation of Cuban leaders. No details as to further action
taken pursuant to this directive are as yet available.

-- A CIA officer passed an assassination weapon to an Agency Cuban
asset at a meeting in Paris on 22 November 1963. The weapon
was a ball-point pen rigged as a hypodermic syringe. The CIA
officer suggested that the Cuban asset load the syringe with
Black Leaf 40 for‘use against Castro.

From the above, it is clear that the CIA did in fact develop plans to assas-
sinate Castro. The first seriously pursued plan was conceived in August
1960. It involved the use of members of the criminal underworld with
contacts inside Cuba. The operation had two phases: the first ran from
August 1960 until late April or early May 1961 when it was terminated
following the Bay of Pigs; the second ran from April 1962 until February
1963 and was a revival of the first phase which had been inactive since
May 1961.

The report provides only a sketchy basis for determining to what extent
authorities outside the Agency may have directed or influenced the CIA
to develop and carry out assassination plots, The authors of the report
do state, however:

'We cannot overemphasize the extent to which responsible Agency
officers felt themselves subject to the Kennedy Administration's
severe pressures to do something about Castro and his regime."

 

HW 53244) Docld:32105882 Page 3
 

Separately, in describing actions taken by Richard Bissell early in the
Kennedy Administration to establish an executive action capability (''a
general standby capability to carry out assassinations when required"),
the report quotes Bissell as saying: 'The White House has twice urged
me to create such a capability.'' The only other suggestive reference
in the IG's report is to a CIA statement in one of its contingency plans
that the elimination of the dominant figure in a government would not
necessarily cause the downfall of the government. This contingency
plan was developed in response to a request from General Taylor for a
plan apparently designed to accomplish the overthrow of the Castro
regime. It is understood that ''The Taylor Report! which deals with
this e¢pisode is now held by the CIA. A copy has been requested for
review at the White House. ,

The underworld-connected plot mentioned above began with a request
from Richard Bissell to the Director of Security that he investigate the
possibility of establishing contacts with underworld figures who might
have gambling connections in Cuba for the purpose of effecting the assas-
sination of Fidel Castro, This request led.to Agency contacts with
Robert A. Maheu, a private nvestigator who had done sensitive work for
the Agency and who had been a special agent for the FBI Maheu in turn
developed contacts with underworld figures (Johnny Roselli and Sam Gian-
cana). The latter two, affiliated with gambling operations in Cuba, estab-
lished the link with in-country persons who were ultimately to perform
the assassination, .

The details of the above episode are treated at length in the report to
include the identities of the technicians, scientists, station chiefs, and
divisions heads within the Agency that were involved in any respect,
Apart from this operation, several other aborted schemes are summarized
such as: a plan in August 1960 to pass a box of cigars contaminated with
lethal botulinum toxin to Castro; a concept plan for contaminating a radio
station where Castro was expected to speak with LSD in the expectation
that he would then make a fool of himself on Cuban television; a plan to
seed a depilatory into Castro's clothing during foreign travel which would
cause his beard to fall out; a plot to have William Donovan present Castro
with a skin diving suit which was contaminated with poison; and a scheme
to place an explosive sea shell on the floor of the ocean where Castro was
known to go skin diving.

 

HW 53244) Docld:32105882 Page 4
