 

Released under the jJehn-F.—Kenned

  

oo i . wicnaeDXncLANEY -
Samuel¥RECE 0 ike
bAR™

Tex McCRARY one
and others.

 

P Subject of your memorandum No.15400 dated 5th January :
1967. : a ° co
; ; . ; ¢

26 It is reported that since the recent advent of power of ©

the P.L.P. McLANEY is a frequent visitor to the Ministry of ;
Tourism office, and is negotiating for a lease in his ow name :
of offices to be used by the P.L.P. in Bay Street, Nassau. - : :

3. One of McLANEY's associates in Nassau who has been seen
visiting Mr. PINDLING's Office is Samuel RICE, described as an
attorney from Florida (Fortlauderdale); he is known to act for
Samuel BENTON who ha&S been declared a prohibited immigrant in
: the Bahamas (see also your memorandum No.154.01 dated 4th January:
| 1967). . Have you any record of this man please? I apologise

' for the dearth of personal particulars. . .

 

ue RICE arranged for the following aircraft to be made
| available for use ~by the P.L.P. in its election campaign:- —

. (a) Cessna 206 - N°3436 L - piloted by one Len ROSSMAN, X {
carrying credit card in name of Meray Carol ABEAZLE \ '
c/o American Aviation Corporation, Tameana '' ‘
Airport, Florida. .

(bv) Beech Queenair, registered as 14.00, owned by
“electron (associated with, or subsidiary of
Metalab efsubject of your memorandum No.1540 dated

ith January 1967).

 

(c) Helicopter belonging to Adventure Helicopter
Corporation piloted by one Paul..WOODS. en

5. Regarding paragraph lh, one Harol@WEnsEn, a U.S. aircraft \
pilot who has beén living in the Bahamas for some years, where \
he has-been employed by the Bahamas Tractor and Equipment, Co.
Ltd.,; told Special Branch that prior to the elections a pilot
friend of his who works for the Crescent (?). Aircraft Company |
- of Fort Lauderdale, had told him of an approach by a man named 1
William SKILLINGS (owner of a Fort Lauderdale public relations }
firm and at one time P.R.O. at Riley Aeronautics). This :
approach. had to do with hiring a helicopter for use by the P.L.P.
sudseqnently there was a meeting attended by SKILLINGS and Sam :
RICE (see above), PINDLING, John Ward EVANS, Vice President of :
Riley Aeronautics who lives at 9941 S.W. 66 Street, Miami,
one George NEESMITH (phonetic) of Crescent Airlines, and one . j
Joseph A. WHITCOMBE, of whom we have no further particulars.

: /EVANS te

 

 

 

popra: 32340095 Page 9 : . ‘ . “  y
TReleased under ¢

 

 

 

 

ge . : ;
@ackd?3e940095 Page 10

  

=e oO : . \.

-EVANS and NEESMITH are rumoured in the Bahamas ‘to have had in-
volvements in the past with ‘American Intelligence' .

6. : A fourth aircraft involved was a D.C.3 owned: by the
Carolina Aircraft: Corporation leased to one Carl BOY of Fort ;

_ Lauderdale, and. piloted by one, Chase HENDERSON.

Fe “Any likely record of any of the individuals mentioned

in paragraphs 5 and 6 which you may be able to produce would
be appreciated. .

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC “210 Rote

|
|

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld: 32340095 Page 6

Teased ‘under the
/ DATE: 11-14-2017
* 2

6.

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote)”

( , wali bee a : ~\
a x.

It is not- without interest that HAWTHORNE is the subject

of an exclusion order in London; he clearly slipped through the
Immigration control at London Airport; Furthermore, according

to Interpol, he was sentenced to two years imprisonment in
absentia in 1961: for fraud. He married a Belgian girl in London
in December 1960. ;

January

HAWTHORNE also alleges that when in London in December/
4967 he saw "quite a lot" of a man named WESTON "a

person of substance and high level contacts". He added that oo
. WESTON had had a very satisfactory interview with Wallace GROVES
in Freeport, Bahamas involving a land transaction worth 424 million

dollars.

8.

WESTON has not yet been identified.

HAWTHORNE also said on 7th January, that the arms dealer |
i
{

he had met in Geneva was not POLLAR after.all, but. an unnamed
West German; it was this man who refused to do business with him.

He told

Special Branch Bahamas that he (HAWTHORNE) would be

seeing McLANEY for frank instructions on 7th January (i.e.

9.
reports

is an even larger shareholder of the Exchange and Investment Bank
of Geneva than Benjamin WHEELER. It was this man who was due.
‘to reach Geneva on 9th January, but did not arrive; WHEELER
informed the Bank of POLLER's delay by telephone. POLLER is
said to have two addresses in Miami - one being Biscayne Avenue,

and the

prior to the Bahamas elections). ; - ; :

Regarding Lou -POLLAR referred to above, a delicate source |
that a U.S, citizen named Lou POLLER who lives in Miami,

other Ireland Terrace, Corablue (? sic). It is believed

py those concerned with the bank in Switzerland, that POLLER is

a man undoubtedly capable of any shady deal. Have you any
record of POLLER please? .
 

‘Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)
/ATE: 11-14-2017 , : 5 -
/ . ;

. ¢ ae . ,

CO James Russell HAWTHORNE/Lou POLLER

! .

 

Subject of your memorandum 15402 dated January 1967;
this indicates that he has an extensive record of violent crime.

2. Introduced to. Special Branch Bahamas, through Roy.
SOLOMON, former Minister for Communications and Works in U.B.P.
government defeated at January 1967 elections. Apparent motive
for coming forward was desire to be on the right side in the
-event of trouble, and to gain standing with U.B.P. in hope of’
obtaining new gambling concession.

3. Early in January 1967, HAWTHORNE claimed to have been to
Geneva to collect a letter of credit from the Exchange and
- Investment Bank, 15 Pierre Fatis, and to have handed this over to
prone .Louis¥ROLLAR, who was it seems to have been some kind of
| Jeet contact man with access to supplies of arms in Brussels, which
f) “. would be shipped later to the Bahamas (possibly Treasure Cay)
~via Antwerp. . POLLAR, according to HAWTHORNE refused the. letter
: . of credit, and added that in any case rio arms were available in |
; Belgium because stocks had been bought up by King Hussein of *
dordan.

 

i 4e Enquiries in Switzerland revealed that the Exchange and
Investment Bank. was established in 1959, and moved to Geneva in
; 1966. .There are six Swiss direétors, and one American. The (
7 le, latter is Benjamin{WHUELER of Miami - your memorandum 15403 of

kth January refers. No trace could be found in Swiss records

. of either HAWTHORNE or POLLAR having been in Switzerland up to bs J
ae 6th January, but on 9th January, it was reported that Lo LAR, -—

. an American citizen with large sums at his disposal was due to :
arrive there that day; in fact he did not arrive. In the
meantime a check had been made of Belgium immigration records
for details of any visit there (December/January 1967) by
HAWTHORNE, with negative results.

 

 

 

} ; ;

' 5. At this stage, an opportunity was taken of questioning

! HAWTHORNE about his movements with a view to verifying the

| story he gave as at paragraph 3 above. On 7th January, he

; claimed to have flown to Europe from Nassau on 19th December

| accompanied by an English girl, whom he had met in Bahamas on

{ 46th December, and went straight to Geneva; he claims to have .

\ - peturned from Europe to Nassau on 4th January 1967, via Bermuda !

| and: Miami. It is confirmed that HAWTHORNE was in fact a .
passenger to London on BOAC Flight BA 672 from Nassau on 19th

' December. There is no record of any onward journey from

London on HAWTHORNE's part. HAWTHORNE alleged that he stayed

in London at the Carlton Towers Hotel; the result of a check on

this statement is awaited from London. :

/6. It eee

ca
-

 

pada: 32340095 Page 7

 

 

 

 

 
 

    

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy As i ten—Act ot 1997 use 21T07-Hote).
(roe 2007 INFORMATION [ Pan i f cary kMan. Maefes ) on

at yup tot is a summary of thea information which has oo
i} | *

 
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

3.

been recelif {1 up to 16 DEC 66. The sour yas engaged in the
activitiés..f the us and Bahamian citized.2 concerned, and the 4
‘Special Branch assessment of the source is that he is thought .~ }
to be reliable and that the 4nformation is probably true.

 
 
 

 

joven: &@) A group of American citizens named Michael
R Be. McLANRY, Uavid PROVINSKY, vukg JORDAN, (William ,...
1 WaNDLEY)- SamueL BENTON, Janes HAWTHORNE, Dre >
SPIRO, % BESSINGER (ph}, and ? VINN have
agreed to give. financial and other assistance
- to the PLP, in return for gambling concessions :
after the p,p form the Uovernment. MCLANEY 48 «2.
‘the leader of the group. er:

b) HAWTHORNE will leave for EUROPE Pem™. on 46 DEC 06 oa
: to arrange for the purchase of some 1,500 smald | ;
-arms and ammunition to. be used oy the pLP in *, . = ©
an armed insurrection, planned to take place :
“ should the pip tose the Election at the polis. ~~
. MCLANEY has arranged for purchase funds to be ne
made available at the EXCHANGE & INVESTMENT | re!
. BANK, £5 -PIERRE FATIO, GENEVA, where a person — J
-named Louis POLAR is to be contacted... The 9 ©» 7
arms are to be purchased in BELGIUM, and ee:
’ shipped from ANTWERP to a port which has not
‘yet been decided, butthe ultimate destination |. :.
may be TREASURE CAY in the Bahamas. a

¢) Should the pLP not obtain a majority of seats  - . .)
at the Election, MCLANEY is determined that «© of: i

: the armed insurrection will start, irrespective .--.

fof the.then poiicy of the PLP leaders. es

 

 

 

   
 
 

 

d),An unidentified’ contact of McLANEY's, who is a
.. resident of NEW YORK, has’ promised to ioan a
‘twin éngine aeropiane and piiot to the PLP for
.. campaign purposes. The same -person promised "
~ 25,000 (g or #7) to the PLP campaign fund
“when he meti@TNDDENGREA NEW YORK recently. |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32340095 Page 5
 

 

Je oare eereeoons John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote;.
. -2- : .
will move to NASSAU ge advise the

) aign tactics and ruf their public _
Pecations. ye is known to havayorought in
excess of $15,000 to, NASSAU] over the week-end
3-- 4 pet 606 and this money is velieved to
have been ear-marked for the yment of PLP’
candidates! deposits on Y DEC: %O (Nomination
day). oo

 
  

 

   

 

? VINN wiil: be responsible for PLP public

- relations in the sa, including PLP prepaganda

_ in the international press. He is also arranging
‘for the provision of pLp campaign propaganda to. ”,
_the Bahamas. : Oke:

 

MCLANEY, together with L.O, PINDLING, Arthur
FOULKES and Milo BUTLER Snr., of the PLP, are
-. engaged in a plan which is aimed at the
--exploitation of certain documents stolen from
--* the FREEPORT AUTHORITY and the: law offices of
.. Stafford SANDS. .In essence, PINDLING will be: a
. given the documents after he has given evidence . :
which will ensure. the withdrawal of certain so, *
“4ndictments, returnable to the NEW YORK Grand |.
 gury, issued recently against the present. . |
possessor of the documents. . ae

 

“ MCLANEY will arrange for a 321 boat to be
piaced at the disposal of PLP candidates in © ee
the out Islands. W/ . ; Ce OE,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DocId:32340095 Page 6
 

Releaséd ess a

   

C, . SECRET Our Refs AR 92/9

we , Ye
wag gth February, 1967.

You will recall that. on 30th December, 1966, I forwarded

Police (Special Branch = Supt. Gregory Bentley in charge) via
_my Headquarters as well as from my opposite number in Jamaica.

2. As paragraph 7 thereof indicates, we were most anxious
that no action be taken by you to prejudice either the source
of subsequent investigation in the Bahamas; we are grateful
for your co-operation in this. respect. We did, however, ask
you to let us have details of any records you had relating to
those mentioned in the report. Such records as were available
you kindly forwarded to us on 5th January, and since that time
I have made oral requests for.further information relating to
McLANEY, and for a further attempt to be made to check the name

fort David PROBINSKI, referred to earlier as PROVINSKI.

\

/ ©

As indicated at the time, the material I passed to

you emanated from a source whose reliability had then to be
established; the same state of uncertainty regarding the source
pertains today. As you will appreciate, the report as it
stands indicates that the P.L.P. in their. recent election Xe
campaign in the Bahamas expected to derive appreciable assista
from the U.S. contacts named in the report, some of whom (such
as PROBINSKI) seem to be concerned (unexceptionally) with the
Civil Rights movement and others, such as Michael McLANEY:
perhaps with organised crime syndicates. In the event, the
election passed off without violence, but this may have been
due more to the fact that the P.L.P. (unexpectedly) won the
election than to any other factor; even though the allegations

 

is reason to believe (based on what the F.B.I, Field Office in

of my note refers) that the P.L.P. (if so disposed) could have
laid their hands on sufficient firearms to make their point.

4. - ‘The result of the elections was that the P.L.P. came to
& & power, and L.0, PINDLING (para 2(a) of my note) is now Prime

2 pe Minister. While investigations in the Bahamas have by no

2B means confirmed the entire story as recorded in my letter of

 

and-this, naturally gives rise to concern on the part of the.

Governof and also the Commonwealth Office in London as to the

exte to which those named in my note of 30th December, may
 vhave cceeded in ingratiating themselves with the P. L.P.
«leaders for purposes which, to say the least, are most unlikely
f “to be conducive to good government. .

 
   
 

\

‘/5. +The \ee

ro REG 1 fod 1-30 ale]

edie ot

   

pe - 190 a oO) 6 ‘res a9. 67,
deordSzaadhae”” Page 2 » Mae. woe ce ~ 3 1967,

 

 

 

 

to you a memorandum based on information received from the Bahamas

of arms trafficking made in the report cannot be confirmed, there

Miami has passed to the Bahamas Police in recent months - para 8

al 8 30th December, it is nevertheless a fact that since the election
& a2 McLANEY has been seen in and around a Bahamian Minister's office

the Doin FC Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2i07 Hotey >

|

me ay bhiag Actwihes —B tharaa; i

LED IH

eae

by
:
By
r

an

 
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 6/1/2015
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

 

 

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-90154-10124
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 162-1-202-67
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SEE TITLE
FROM: [Restricted]
TO:
TITLE: [Restricted]
DATE: — 00/00/0000
PAGES : 14
SUBJECTS :
MICHAEL MCLANEY
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1
DoclId:32340095 Page 1

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Doct: 32340095 Page 3 ‘ cs i.

DATE; 11 14- 2017

a, SSE we
‘ 4 : ; Se TUE | :
Ly 5 wy
be The question of the extent to which Mr. PINDLING and

his ministers should be advised against maintaining associations
with undesirable clients such as McLANEY not only raises
problems of dissemination, but also (and perhaps even more
important) the extent to which it would be wise to base an
approach solely on the contents of the unconfirmed report sent
to you on 30th December.

6. If I may say so, my own view has been from the outset
that your expert assistance should have been enlisted in an
attempt to get to the bottom of this report, particularly

as it contains suggestions that U.S. citizens may have been |
engaged in unlawful activities within your jurisdiction. I
am-glad to say that this view has now been accepted; accordingly
I have been instructed to approach you on behalf of the British
Government departments concerned, as well as my own Service,

and to request that you would be so good as to consider mounting
an investigation of those named in the report, inc]luding the

_ interviewing (where possible) of those concerned, with a view

to assisting us to determine its reliability.

7. In an attachment to this letter, I attach additional
information relevant to the original report which I have re-
ceived from the Bahamas, and. may I say not only how much your
collaboration at this stage would be welcomed by us, but

also that my services are always at your disposal, should
clarification of any point be required.

8. In view of the delicacy of the matter under reference, |
we have been at pains throughout to avoid publicity of any kind,
and for this reason none of the suspects have been questioned
in the Bahamas itself. You should know that the source of the
report in question was in fact James HAWTHORNE, and while we
gee no reason why he should not be questioned in due course, we
do venture to suggest that care should be taken to avoid

giving him any reason to think that you are aware of his role
as a source of Special Branch Bahamas, and that perhaps he
should not be approached until after some of the others con-
cerned have been seen, and have provided (at least notionally)
collateral on which to base the approach to HAWTHORNE himself.

I believe that at the moment HAWTHORNE, McLANEY and PROBINSKI
are all in the Bahamas.

9. Since drafting the above, I have also heard that on
6th February, a Mr. Peloguin of the Department of Justice.
visited the Bahamas, and indeed spoke to Mr. PINDLING about
the undesirable aspects of the characters of McLANEY (whom he
said was ‘in .trouble' with the Internal Revenue Service),
PROBINSKI (a bankrupt, who had kept a house of prostitution),
and one 'Tex' McCRARY, whom Mr. Peloquin said had been in

/touch ...

 
 

 

‘Released ander the Tom Ff. _Kennedy Assassination Records Collectio: zs WEE é
7 ion Act of 19: a.
DATES deta 2017 or 92 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.

rr re Ct . - ca a
vos ra elo 3 - 5. KD

“ s
é

touch with him last week in Washington, and had indicated that
Mr. PINDLING wished to have information about McLANEY and :
PROBINSKI. As a result of his visit to the Bahamas, Mr.
Peloquin has agreed to supply full dossiers on McLANEY,
PROBINSKI, McCRARY and CHESLER to the Governor, through the .
Consul General. .

10. Mr. Peloquin is no doubt keeping you informed of his
interest in this matter, although I myself did not hear of his

‘plan to go to Nassau until after he had returned. T under-
stand that Mr. Peloguin is aware of my contacts with you on
this matter; I accept that he may well be in a position to
supply the Bahamas with information from U.S. agencies other
than the F.B.I, (with which I have no contact) but notwithstanding
what Mr. Peloquin may have on record, and the channel to the :
Bahamas he has established (through the U.S. Consul General)
it still seems to me to be right to present you now with all
the facts as I know them, and to invite you-to pursue some
active enquiries in order to get to the pottom of the ~
'HAWTHORNE' story. . ae

11. Amongst the enclosures to this letter will be found a

| somewhat fuller version of the source material included in our
| note of 30th December 1966. ; ~ : : i

 

 

4
- 4 a

boca: 32340095 Page 4' ; so : . A 4

 

 

 

 
