, HW 55077 DoclId:32989534 Page 4

 

   
 

‘ OTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE
CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO: Intelligence Cofmunity Staff | FROM:
FBT

ATIN: Central Index
SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees
1. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term, If a document was made available 2. DATE PROVIDED
for review but not transmitted, so note.)
DOCUMENT BRIEFING SZ | interview TESTIMONY [oTHeR 30/29/75

+ TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

      
        
      
  

  
     

 

      
   
     
 
    
     
      

 

 

 

the Attorney General with a copy for forwarding t
the Whie House PY a

 

 
 

+ IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; give name or identification number of briefer,
interviewee, testifier and subject)

Konoxondum raporting results of an interviey by SSO Staff
Meober oF fssiskant Director Dwight J, Dalbay

   
     

    
  
  

  

CLASSIFICATION OF
{INFORMATION (enter
U, C, S, TS or
Codeword)

u

. KEY woRDS (enter the appropriate key words from the List provided separately; if key words not listed are
used underline for emphasis)

5. IN RESPONSE TO (List date and item number if in response to formal request, other-
wise state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena, etc.)

A

6.

   

   
 

        
     
    
   
    
       
      
      

  

   

Operating procedures
Ureonigation and starfine

  

| SUMMARY (See reverse side before completing this item)

  

interviewed renarding the formation, duties ond functions
of the Lopal Counsel Division.

62 -116395

EME: fm
€4) ORIGINAL VIA LIATSON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX
IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 73

  

aw

 

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

  

3791 (6-75)

 

 
 

 

 

INSTRUCTIONS

@ Type or print clearly in ink.
e Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.
e@ Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

e "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the
information.

e If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to
HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a
copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

 

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY ~ enter brief narrative statement describing
substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be
noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether
interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript
is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional
pages may be attached if necessary. ~

 

HW 55077 DoclId:32989534 Page 10 "

 
 

 

   
 
   
    

 
    

‘ " “pivight J, Detbey ‘ . ;
- an @ 8703 Hempstead Ave anue .
a Sy Bethesda, Maryland 20034

- soe «

afea as to make the FBI no threat to the Liberties of anyone, and totally
without power-totaily emasculated-to perform Lhe functions which the public - F}
_interest demands and which the great majority of our clitieens expect .the FBI |
to perform, and well. The law inust always leave, as Justice Holmes once sald,
‘some play in the joints," some room for judgnent and, decision of those who

are responsible for the work. . . 7

In answer to ELLIf£ fits questions, I disclaimed all responsibility of the Office
of Legal Counsel and the Legal Rosearch Dusk for all “dirty tricks," burglarlesy,
and so on. The great bulk of these occurred during my “anamaious situation”
. aires earlier; I was never consulted or advised in advance. Mer vas the lage
Lity of any such pending action raised to me after establishment of the
of Legal Counsel. I said Ehat I had early made it clear that _I stood for
“ity in all matters, being of the opinion. that legality, Like honasty, is the best
policy in the long run no matter fr ow onerous 1 may seam in some individual
case, My lodastac was found very early in a-note that Hoover had penned to a memo
fyom the General Investigative decision complaining of the difficulties shrown -
in our path by the HaYlory decision. Hoover wrote, "It is the law and we will
obey it." That became the philosophy of the Legal : Research Desk and of the OfFlee

of Legal Counsel.

Ln

 

 

A fewavery fow-names came up, ELLI£E seemed to think that Hoover might have -
counseled with me on the "Lockout! of WC. Sullivan. He did not, and I made that
clear. I refnsed to enter into any dis cussion of the Hoover-Sullivan relations,
pointing out that I had hearsay only, except to cenfirm that it appeared to be
the foreign liaison matter which generated the fracas. : re

Felt*s name came up but {it was {neonsequential-I now forget how, I did point
out that o¥ing to directions isx which Hoover gave to me, ard in his usually

‘certain terms, once [ became head of the Office of Legal Counsel the respon-

sibility for legal matter’ran from me directly to him and that I had no other.-

bosses on such matters. I didn't say so to BlLif£ but J think that some of the
. . "power" in the ‘Bureau had soma difficulty, for a a while, ‘in grasping that fact.
“But so Hoover told ia me and since I was eligible to retire vanyway I aéted ace~

. ordingly. - .

Director Kelley was riot mentioned at all, nor Was Pat Gray so far as I can
remember, ELLiff mentioned you and Hotis in some Way conveying the idea that
you both are quite decent chaps, with which I readily agreed.

  

Regards, as always

  

 

    

HW 55077 DocId:32989534 Page 8
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oy mo @ . DwightJ.Dalbey |” o.
a oe oan 8703 Hempstead Avenua . . tote
* . * Bethesdo, Marylond 20034 -

 

taken. Thus it is that the FBI desire to keep its legal actions clean‘as a
tound's tooth may conflict with the ambition of the prosecutor, I still remember
an Assistant. U.S, Attorney who spent half an hour on the telephone tryinz to
harangue, badger and bluff me into sending Agents out to arrost a Secret Serve
ice fugitive when both he and I knew that we had no jurisdiction to make’such

an arrest,-And then some U.S, Attorneys simply went haywire in their inte et-
ation of the law. If I seméber correctly, it was the U.S, Attorneys in the wast+ ¢

   

“ern District of Illinois and one the the districts of Mississipp] who once took i
the position that a person arrested by the FBI must te brought before the then
Commissioner by the arrestédg Agent and by no other. 2 had “to fight them both .
Cown on that one and it took a bir of coing. So, here again the FBI needed its .
Gin counsel. . . “ . ot

Functions of FBI inehouse counsel break down into a faw obvious categories,
IT told El1iff, Counsel must to some reasobable extent rove through currant FBI
vork looking Zor problems, present and potential. Some can be solved on the spot, |

 

 

   

so to speax. Others st be taxen co the Department, such as those which necesse
arily involve Department or Administration policy, or which are of such potential |
for damage that the PSI wants before acting to exhaust all expert advice avail-

im

able to it, It is a matter of considerable discretion to decide which quastions
can and should be answered in-house, in order to not be badgering the Depertmet
every other minute, and which must be raised to the Department. This can be done
by an experienced F3I Agent-Lawyer, and by no other. And then there is the con-
stant need for FSI legal instruction, which I described but on which I did not
dvell, believing the need to be obvious and, in general, for the same reasons

. y .

as those discussed above. . a4 . .

1

 

In response to ELLIf£'s questions I admitted that the great bulk of the work
of the Office of Legal Counsel came from the criminal side of FBI jurisdiction.
And quite naturally so, If was (I speak of my time only)in ‘the criminal area
that most of the Agents were employed, And it was with some historical i
fication that those doing intelligence work thougnt themselves not responsibie-
te the criminal law, althouen we did all possitle to knock that error out of
their heads,’ They thought themselves only intelligence gatherers, and so they
were until the case suddenly turned into the offense of espionaze or some other.

It was then that we got such Flascoes as that "hian Sierras" case, Which toover
anevily labeled the worst searcn he had ever sean. The Agents Cook everything-
everything-in the cabin, carted it hundreds of miles to San itxancisco for fur-
ther examination, and we lost the search in the Supreme Court. They never asked

for advice of counsel, Without the effective presence of-in-house counsel how-

upveat the danger today of another such fiasco when so few of the Agents are ‘Law. .
trained, _ : . : oe, Dot GY

Tisis discusssion led to talk of the slender legal jurisdictton for the work

‘of the Domestic Intelligence Division, 1 told ELML££ that some in the PBI had
jong been dissatisfled with tha matter, that I was among them, and that when Ed
tiller became Assistant Director ha had Labored miahtlly for a change. Here I
warned ELLI£E that it.would be easy to so circumseribe FBI jurisdiction in this

HW 55077 DocId: 32989534 Page 7 . . .

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

‘had greatly declined. It thus was obvious that both the supervision of legal

I speculated, Hoover must have decided that he badly needed a closer legal mons

‘sorious legal matters which came up in the first few days. One was a proposal

 

HW 55077 Docld:32989534 Page 5 "| ” i tae

Co "Dwight J. Dolbey 6
<a oe r ¥ _8703 Hempstead Avenue - '

. * Bethesda, Maryland 20034

  
  
 

swells This development followed on the new Yactivist" approach of the Supreme
Court under Viarren Which brought ths andmark decisions of Mallory, Mapp, Nir-
anda, and ‘so.many others, all of which complicated the criminal law enormously
for both FBI Agents and for the officers:-of other jurisdictions to whom the -PBI
taught criminal law in the FBI National Academy and elsawhare, More than that,

these decisions came at a time when the percentage of lawyers in the Agent force

watters’ and the tralning given to Agents and others officers must be greatly ine
ereased. This oroughet y ou and John ilotis and others into the function, for
Donelan and I could no longer carry the load. :

The final step was the establisiment of tha Office of Legal Counsel as a sepe
arate division of bhe FBI. This happened without advance notica-to me. It was
in January or February of 1971 (memory fades) when Hoover calléd me to- his off.
ice, He opened by naming about five Federal ‘law enforcement aganciss such as the
Secret Service, the Marcotics Bureau, and others, that had their own comnsal
and concluded by saying that the FBI had greater naed of in-house counsel than
any of these, He made me Inspector in Charge, and 17 days later made me Assise.
tant Director. . . - 7 - or sot

-ELLiZ was interested in knowing why Hoover chose that momant to create the
new division, I told him, and quite truthfully, that I did not know-~Howver did
not say, at least not to ma, ELLiff pressed the matter, ics and I pointed out
that I could only speculate. The best spsculation, in my opinion, is that ‘che
move Was related to the ® embarassment which éame to Hoover because of
his public statement, prior to any grand jury action, concerning the evidence
against those two priests and their followars who were alleged to be planning ;
to blow up the District sewer system. That statement, I pointed out, was never :
brought to my attention until after it had been made. Had I known of it in ade L
vance, I would have strongly counseled against it. Somewhere in this.time area, .

   
 

AREA TUDE US bo torre rrenetemey nlisne ei sar

 

 

tatty

itering of everything that went on in the F3.. .

This brought up the an: amSlous pesition so long ‘occupiad by: the Legal Resear ch.
Desk which had so troubled ine. I was absolutely and totally responsible for ane
sering any legal question raised to my by anyone in the FBI, but I had no au-
thority whatsoever to inquire into legal problems ‘not raised to mes This tinzts
situation changed completely when tha new division was ‘established, Cur first
erders from Nioovsr were to "see everything" soing out of the FBI that might
embody or affect a legal question. We strove manfully to do so for a while, but
the volume of paver coming across the dask was simply too Large. 50, with Hoover?:
permission and over his’ signature, I put out a motice to all headquarters pers.
onnel which made each supervisor, division, ete., Initially responsible for
recognizing tha actual or possible axistenca of a legal problam and which dir-
ected them to bring all such problems to our attention, And so it went until i
retired, -

  

at pte MLE ASIEN

ELLif£€ was interested in knowing why I was so qulckly raised from Inspactor-
in-Charge to Assistant Diractor. Again, Hoover never told ma, but if one must
speculate IT would sugssst that it was because I handled to his satisfactlon two

 

 

 
 

 

ae an ~ Dwight J. Dalbey } mo, ., oo,
‘ us , @ &703 Hempstead Avenue ; oe _

‘ more ‘the Agent knows about the victim the better the chance he has cf solving the

.done to the benefit of both this country and Canada and without'an unfortunate .

that was illegal, making no mention of the “authority on which the action was

HW 55077 -; Docld: 3298953

 

 

~ . . * Bethesda, Maryland 20034

from the General Intelligence Division that a file be estabiished on each Sens
ator ‘and U.S. Representative and that. into Ehat file be thrown all miscellaneous
“information concerning the person that came to our attention without investiga-
tion, The purpose was entirely innocent, and of some efficiency, viewed solely
from an investigative standpoint. The FBI had lately become responsible for in-
vestigating attacks against these peopla, and it is sensible to’belleve that the

crime, But, I countered, the fact that the FBI kept such files would filter out *
to public knovledge and immediately be misinterpreted to mean that the FRI was :
actively surveilling and monitoring the activities of the legislators. This voul
mot do. Moover agreed. About the same time there came frow the Domestic Intalli+
gence Division a proposal that ah informant -be sent to Canada to gather informe
ation ‘there on certain U.S. citizens in whom the fBI had a legitimate’ interest. q
Canada was not to be infomned, I countered that this vas unwise; something of ~ +
the same kind had happened’a few years earlier, had been discovered, and had re
sulted in quite a stink being raised in the Canadian Parliament. I suggested Chat
the FBI work kk this informant through the RCP, Hoover agread, and it was so

a
chm
mts

 

incident. : . wo. foo . ot.

 

Sime

a! Satna

Both these matters, it might be pointed out, Were not strictly legal. Buf the
effective lawyer remambers that just as no man isan island neither is a legal
question. The question exists always in some poiitical, economic, sociologica Bos
or philosophical context, und these may alter or even change what would ather
wise be the narrow legal answer to a probiem.

    
 

‘ . .

We next discussed, at ELLifi's request, the functions of the Office of Legai
Counsel, More pointedly, why could not thase functions be performed by the U.S,
Attorney and the Department of Justice? For many reasons, I said. First, and in
general, it defies all common sense and the laws of human nature to believe that
the Director of the FBI and his people can get adequate counsel from any lawyer .
over whom they have no control whatsoaver, Whom they de not pay, promote or dew
mote. The FBI must necessarily be in a position to demand a quick answer from
counsel, The SAC in Butte, for example, may call at 10:00 asm, or 10:00 Demy
as the situation requires. He has located a fugitive, and sees a potential search
problem. We might get a good ansger from the Department if wa write Chem.a mero
‘and wait three weeks (ana again we might not, depending on who answers the ques-
tion over there). But the SAC cannot freeze the situation for three weeks. Second,
the SAC needs a positive answer-a "do this" and “don't do that" answer, specific,
to the point, and susceptible of being transiated into immediate action. None of
this "on the one hand but however on the other" type of answer that bureaucrats
$0 often give. the FBI can command such an ansver of Lts own counsel, and of no :
other, Nor can the U.S, Attorney ve relied upon for such answers, for several 4
reasons. Hany of the assistants are recently graduated schoolboys whose know. - i

i

Ltn -deaPabiitcinaite ts.

Sam eer RIA ERR KOE MENA PRET tt,

ledge of the eri minal Law is "hornbook" variety. Some U.S. Attorneys are overly
cautious, reluctant. to take a stand, with the result that the FBI would underuse
its authority, to the public detriment. Some are ageressive prosecutors out ‘to
male a name for themselves and not a bit reluctant to authorize an arrest or
search on dubious grounds, secure in the ‘knowledg# that if the action fails the
newspaper headlines will trimpet the fact that it was the "FBI search" or arregt

 
 

 

 

  

 

Aa 1 - ¢.. B, Adams
4 + le 1» e J. A. Mintz
1 - Me. W. R. Wannall
The Attorney General 1 ~ Mr. W.egQe, 3, 19
yee 1- Mr. S. Reo BER Ps 1975
Director, FBI
f ©
u. 5. SENATE SELECT COMMEFTER
ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)
Z
2
~
Enclosed is the original of a memorandm, with Fa
attachnent, which reports the results of on intervicy of —
former FBE Assistant Director Dwight J, Dalbey by SSG Staff we?
Member John T, ELME£. <A copy of the memorandum, with =
attachment, is also being furnished for forwarding to wt
Mr. James A, Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President. ~
: <
Enclosures (4) -
62-116395 re
1 -~ The Deputy Attorney General ‘
Attention: Michael £&. Shaheen, Jr. x
Special Counsel for :
Intelligence Coordination O
1 = 67+ (Personnel File Former AD Dwight J. Dalbey) A
SFP:1hb /)[>
i. MATION CONTAINED
“e) (10) ESREIN Jp UCLABSUFLED

Asst. Dir.:
Admin,

Ext, Affair:
Gen, Inv.
Inspection

Intell.
Laboratory

Troining
Legal Coun.

 

a “ MR
ph? 5d
"te ian ~ EX-L

 

Comp. Syst. — REE. 45 per lee

 

Ident. —____..

Files & Com. — . ; b2 “Me 3

 

Plon. & Eval. —

 

Telephone Rm. —

‘ ey : ater
82 tor Secty avi? OOM(__] TELETYPE UNIT L_) /s ¥ it y ant Nae ‘ GPO : 1975 © - 569-920
NOV. 1d:32989534 Page 2 k Crna

 

Spec. Inv. 2 us

‘: Gi oA 15 NOV 21 1975

 

a Same emcee

Wi ipl

 

 

cya ‘ct 2 — we emecten
Q :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

File #

rr EE ee

 

(o2-HO-- (6 34S ,

 

 

Serial Scope:

. JO) = 101s LOL NOLL | o_ 8 WIL. 1028 1020,
(032- 102% :

(08% | | O37 — 1043, 2™ NE 1043 loys ~]osyy.

er the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectia cL oO
Note). Case#:NW 55077 Date: 11-21-2017

 

 
 

  

# B. Adams

J. A. Mintz
W. R. Wannall
W. 0. Cregar
Mr. S. F. Phillips

J poo 7 a

62-216995 Qetoher 29, 1975

 

Be eee
§ a td ft
.

U. S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE To
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH
RESPECT YO INGELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RG: WWENVIEU OF FORMER PBI
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (AD)
BUIGHT J. DALBEY BY ssc

STARE MEMBER
ALD INFORMATION CONTAINED
LASSIE tj
RE Pol Be cozadtlil ,
tee folicving pertains to an interview of
Me. Lalbey by SSC Staff Member John &. ELLIE.

On August 22, 1975, Ur. ELLI£S requested of the
EDI's Legal Counsel, Division that Mr, Dakbey be made
avaliable for a Staff Imtexview and that tha topic of
the interview vould be a general historical perspective
eonserning the formation, duties and functions of
the Legal Counsel Division. The PBI waived Dalbey's
eonfidentiality agreement for the purpose of the intervieir..

Following the interview, Dalbey voluntarily
fuenighed the results in the form of a letter to Me. John 4.
Mintz, currently 45 of the Legal Counsel Division.
a éxtached herewith is a copy of that letter with cortain
, excisions which were made for reasons of the excised “ere
being either personal in nature or mot pertiseat.

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Adm. — ry)
Dep. AD m. Enclosure . ty wu
Asst. Dir.:

Admins ——_ 1» 67» (Personnel File Former AD Dwight J. Dalbey)

 

Ext. Affairs — -
“Ae sP:inblhb whe 3
cen (9) Ih wer Fp ype | G
Ident. —____ /
Inspection ___

aoe ow NOTE: ELLif£'s contact was with Supervisor P. V. Daly

 

 

Pim tei of the Legal Counseth Division.

Yen
Toshone Raw lead YS: o Te, a — fi 0) G $6 1975 0 - 569-920

 

Director Sec'y — MAIL ROOM(__] TELETYPE UNIT(—]
HW 55077 DocId:32989534 Page 3 ENCLOSURE
be oa -

 
 

 

 

ots — “Dwight J. Dalbey”

Noe te ; @ £703 Hempstead Avariue é ~

 

_ : * . Bethesda, Maryland 20034
: - i
. - - October 1, 1975 :
Mr. John A, Mintz , . sb
Assistant Director , . : aa ie

’ Federal bureau of Investigation : ‘
, onxianton CONTAINED

- Washington; D.C. [kui nwo oy
: : . mo CLASSI? {
ear John: ‘ . Tt
It is two weeks today that J was interviewed by Mr. ELLiFE of the Senate
Cowmittee, in the Senate Offica Buliding, pursuant to arrangements which you
made at his request, Knowing that you and the Bureau might be interested in
receiving a oynops!s of that iIntarview, TF admit that I am delinquant in ay

reporting. Titkantge Sh TSE Sn, .

The interview began at 10:00 asm. and lasted for two and one-half hours. It
was pleasant enough in all respects, conducted in good humor throughout. “"?

 

 

ELI£Ets stated purposa in interviewing me was to learn the origins and funce
tions of the Bureau's Office of Legal Counsel. So, during much of the interview
. I talked and he vrote furiously. Synopsizad, of (course, IT went throughs tne his~ 7
tery as follows. - |
In the beginning-dating everything (as in Christianity) from the time that i
‘a certain noted figure took over-there was no in-houss counsel. :There saem to '
be two reasons, First, the vast majority of she Agants were law trained. I chink
- the figure for 1940, when I entered, as 90 per cent. Thus the Agants ware equippe
ed by training to provide their own iegal guicelines. Second, the criminal iaw
“ Was at that tine very simpla, Few of the FBI arrests, searches, and interroge-

tions were challenged in the courts. : . is

,

During this period the unofficial in-house counsel was Judge Holtzoff, than
@ prominent lawyer in-the Department of Justicn, When Hoover had a legal ques-
tion of significance he consulted Hottzoff£; the old files se show,

Somewhare jn the middle 1940's (I guass at this from inadanuate data) the
FSI decided for soma reason not known to me to set up the Legal Research Yesic :
in the then Training and Inspection Division. I suppose that as bhe jurisdic- i
t- : tiou_and the staff of Che VBI grew sviftly so also did the number of Legal
“ quastions ralaed, Co the polne where Chey informal NooversHoltzoff system proved
inadequate, Tt was a ona-man dask, occupied by, ku among others, Inspectur NAN}
James Carlson, Chester vontz (now daceased), Frank Strong, Mace Scovell, and
others unknown to me. I toox over in 1955. :

 

   
  
  

se enn seennetne

Reginning hhortly after ny vin the volume (of legal questions began to

© iene A - 7s Sf Ook :

 

 

332989534-. Page 4

 

 
