 

 

 

J

. Bartone allegedly travels only at night and by
automobile. He has recently been aecompanied on some of. FA. ,
his business trips by Nicholas (NickyMorris. Morris (eee
reportedly resides in Miami with his) father and has a

‘sister who is employed by the State Department and is Féb ce
married to Gregoryahules, a Miami attorney. When Bartone

was in Chicago a -~1961, he and some of his associates,
particularly Morris, were believed to be carrying guns.

Also about that time Bartone xeportedly stated that he

was connected with Hoffa and got a new Cadillac every year,
Bartone subsequently claimed to have “told off" Hoffa and

to have fallen into disfavor. When in Chicago in the past,

Bartone reportedly was in contact with Barney Baker, Joe
Glimco and Tony Accardo. ‘

      
    

Bartone was associated with Don Ross at one time
in the ownership of a catering business, now defunct; and
in 1962 Bartone allegedly owed $67,000.00 to Ross. Ross
reportedly was “started out" in Chicago by Dave Yaras;
operated an automobile dealership and had other business
interests in the Chicago area; and recently had something
to do with a juke box enterprise in California.

Bartone once said, that Kes been some Wes O-
"shenanigans" between P. Doftalstos and Pete ayton lle
regarding promising, or getting legal fees, to get Union
loans for people. Bartone was skeptical about individuals
who claim they can get a loan from Hoffa, According to
Bartone, the Central States committee recommends whatever

Hoffa recommends and it has to be a "good legitimate deal"
- but Hoffa makes the decision.

a

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions
of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed
outside your agency.

ee Soe

DocId: 32309334 Page 7

en cee

 

 

 
 

 

 

Salk were "crooks"; that if they lent money they wound up
with a piece of it; and they would try to get forty or

fifty per cent of a deal if they knew the. borrower was in
a disadvantageous position.

Bartone said that Alvin A.ANaiman had led: Wt

government agencies to believe that
authority to try to get additional financing for NCS,
establish letters of credit, etc.; but Bartone had made
records available to show that he had such authority
through Powers of Attorney and other documents giving
him.the right to go out to seek private financing through
£11 1eeJanewsy, MEI, Salk, Ward and Salk, or any other
ie jource Bartone wanted to use.
é 4

   

Bartone said that tne present owners of the NCS
quarry are going broke on the operation and want to give
it back to Bartone "on a platter“. Bartone said the quarry
had only been producing about 300,000 tons a year and nobody
will do business with them; that Bartone had “knocked them
out" of about 700,000 tons; that after Alvin Naiman had
lost. the sales and distribution business for NCS in the
Cleveland area, it was given to a former Naiman associate
(probably named Barricelli) who used to haul for Sandusky
Crushed Stone; that there had been a shortage in payments;
and “they ought to do business with us this year",

In regard to $50,000.00 which had been posted
with bankruptcy officials in Canada in connection with an
attempt to regain control of NCS in 1961, Bartone advised
that the money was sent back and Bartone gave.$25,000.00 - .

' to the Metropolitan Bank for the benefit of Don\Ross and MELE,
others, and Bartone used the other $25,000.00 foy%Janefield
Village and other interests of Bartone. He referred to ” .
‘Janerieta Village as potentially a 2 3/4 million dollar
Florida real estate development in which he has over
$100,000.00 and has a twenty-five per cent interest. Two
brothers and the widow of the original owner have the
other seventy-five percent. Bartone said he has been
working on it over a year and a half and recently has been

 

_AWAWS

DocId: 32309334 Page 5

 
 

 

  

     

b{ Advance Mo
REIS ES scetenincanameraoe
borrow money to’ buy is partners and finance improve-

ment of the property, which is about 1 miles west of
Cypress Gardens. Bartone indicated that Advance Mortgage
was going to put up the development money and Bartone may
have a quarter million dollars “preliminary money". Bartone
said that in regard to this matter he was staying away

from Hoffa and that if Bartone's present plans work out
Bartone would not need assistance from Hoffa or others.

; mich :
tgage.Company of petroite

Bartone also advised that he recently was
involved in borrowing $155,000.00 in connection with a

_ frozen food plant in Miami and also is involved in a
* $125,000.00 deal through which equipment would be pur-

chased possibly for an oil field development in Guatemala.
He indicated he is involved with a bonding company and has
a partner by the name of Wysockie (phonetic) who may have
some racketeer connections. . Bartone indicated that he has
people who can go to a bank and get loans on their signatures |
provided Bartone can post a guaranteed bond for them.
Through this means, it cost Bartone $23,000.00 to borrow
$175,000.00. He advised that he had supplied some property
as collateral so that Wysockie could write a $100,000.00
bond and that Bartone had been selling a few lots for
expense money to get around. ‘

In early 1961 Bartone claimed he owned the Playboy

Club franchise in Mexico City, Mexico, and in the summer of

1961 he said that he had or could get 10,000 Mi rifles, He
recently indicated he \has banking conections at “the Royal
Bank of Canada.in Nassau and has an interest in the"British
OLonial Savings and Loan"t_in Nassau, in which he

‘ x the stock was a dollar a share, . This

   
 

.savings and loan organization had made mortgage loans of

over $100,000.00, had reinvested about $25,000.00 savings
deposits, and kept its money in the/Royal Bank of Canada at

a good rate of interest. Lh 9 nt ZL shade,

SOW |

DocId: 32309334 Page 6

 
 

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

seem pg

FBI

. 5 Date: 11/8/63

Transmit the following in ~— i

(Type in plain text or code) A 2 |

Via AIRTEL / AIR MAIL A
a

|
(Priority or Method of Mailing) |

 

 

: DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889) |

a SAC, DETROIT (29-1432) (P)
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

 

 

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka
ET AL .
FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW; - _ ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
d CONSPIRACY ; HEREIN iS UNCLASSIFIED
() (00: DETROIT) ; pate -1/- "B ognae esl
i / Th
yw? Remy airtel, 11/7/63. oo ic)
mle Enclosed herewith is a LHM containing information concerning
4 : DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONEand others. This information was
= obtained by Department Attorney, WILLIAM FRENCH, Detroit, from
{> ROBERT C,. MEISSNER. One copy each of the LHM is being
LL furnished to Chicago and Miami for information inasmuch as~
“Bele MEISSNER resides in Chicago and BARTONE resides in the Miami
Division. :
One copy of the LHM is also being furnished to Department Ay
Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH, Detroit. i"

3°) Bureau Cane a
@ Chicago oy (Enc. 1) (Info) _

1 - Miami 18 P17) Ene. 1) (Info)
1 - Detroit

vGw/pjb

(6)

3 then Leg, Criminal Division yo. GL Ret a2
‘Attention: Mr. Walter J. Sheridan

vet ate pez Lo Asia . ee

SOLE ES eh
. ef.

1 wr eeey ~G-GS Ke
ie EIR Lee

Approved: Sent
\ Special Agent in Charge

AL H8EP— [5

4 Noy ¥ ious

 

 

  
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32309334 Page 2

 
 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1
DoclId:32309334 Page 1 :

FBI
124-10298-10121

HQ

29-31889-156

FBI
SAC, DE
DIRECTOR, FBT

11/08/1963
7

[Restricted]

Agency Information

Document Information

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified
Consulted; 4
Redact
05/26/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LHM

48
 

 

Detroit, Michigan

In Reply, Please Refer >

File No tre November 8, 1963

_ ALL eo NaTION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFi
OAT OL 9 C2
| a
JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK

 

8.

U “TED STATES DEPARTMENT © JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE
TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN
PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY

WIRE; CONSPIRACY ;

The following information, based upon statements
reportedly made by Dominick Edward Bartone at various times
in the past, was received by the Department of Justice from

a confidential source who has furnished reliable information
in the past:

In regard to money invested by Bartone in Niagara
Crushed Stone (Humberstone) Ltd. (NCS) in 1959, Bartone
advised that he had the money in a French bank in Panama
and wrote a check for it in Canada, so that the money went
from one foreign country to another without going through
the United States. In regard to money borrowed from Public
Bank for use in connection with the operation of the NCS
quarry, Bartone stated this was bank money and not Union

' money. He also expressed the belief that Public Bank

borrowed money from the Central States Teamsters organization
at a low interest rate and then lent it out to Bartone and
others at a higher rate. Bartone stated, however, that he
was not certain about a lot of this information, but he had
found out various things and then had "figured from there".

Bartone stated that when he was called before the
Federal Grand Jury at Detroit in September, 1963, he "took.
the Fifth" because he did not want to get into trouble with

 

 

 

DoclId:32309334 Page 3
 

 
 
 
 

 

the "racketeers". Bartone was apprehensive that he might be
asked how he had got to Joseph F. Verhelle, former President
of Public Bank, and why Verhelle had given him the loan.
Bartone did not want to get involved in saying that James
Hoffa told Verhelle to give the loan. Bartone said, however,

that Verhelle was not tied in with the’ “racketeers",
UA: f >
R . :

eferring to*fouis "

 

Yfzessex,_Bartone stated he had let it bé”known that they
ad a twenty-five per cent interest in the NCS quarry but

Wa actually did not. Bartone said they had- probably
f

angry and “exposed his people" in front of Hoffa but Hoffa
did not do anything about it. Hoffa subsequently told
Bartone that it looked like Bartone had a "bad deal" and
not to blame Hoffa but to blame “your people". Hoffa said
they did not know how to count up toa million, let alone
borrow a million, and they did not know how to do business.
Hoffa indicated Bartone should have come directly to. Hoffa
rather than going through them, and Bartone said he did not
cut corners and it was through them that he had met Hoffa.

Bartone indicated that in 1961 when he was trying

Meissner Engineers, Inc I), Verhelle either would not: .

Dptiteisen new financing for NCS and was having a survey made

release the né¢éSsary information or else gave Bartone and

MEI incorrect figures. Verhelle finally gave some papers to
MEI after an official of the Continental Bank in Chicago

(with which Verhelle was formerly associated) had been

requested to contact Verhelle concerning the matter. Following —
the MEI survey there was a proposal that Salk, Ward and Salk
provide additional financing but they did not do so because

they .knew Verhelle and he promised he was going to let some-
body else buy it and they would "get a piece", according to
Bartone. Bartone expressed the opinion that Salk, Ward and

. €
r

WAG

DocId: 32309334 Page 4

 
