e

C@ Se

I assume they will be in another 24 hours or so, couldn't
they be circulated to all the members of our Committee and
then at some point in the future some sections of them may
be necessary to share with others in case there is a
question around reconstitution time, but as for now, we
would just keep them within the confines of this Committee.
I think they ought to be circulated to those members
who were not present,who have some questions who May want to
take a look at the data that was provided yesterday by
Mr. Sprague.

’ Mr. Sprague. My thought is that a copy of them should
be available to be with each member of this Committee for
whatever purpose that member may then want to use it
because it was really so that if questions exist in your
minds or if people are asking you questions,at' least
you have the information as I state it to be to respond and
I am happy to have, for each of you, to have a copy of °*.
that for your own purposes. —

The Chairman. Does that satisfy everyone then.

"Mr. Devine. That is fine with me.

The Chairman. Then,Mr. Sprague, in regard to the

hearings so that we have a clear understanding on that,

ordinarily when a committee goes to the floor with any type

of report accompanying, that report of course there are

: the printed hearings that have been conducted by that

Committee, that is what I had in mind in terms of at

Docld:32266766 Phhge 9
26
ann

O
w
w

Docld: 32266766

 

 

’
“at least my: assumption of. the Chair, that we would have all

_ that: printed up as’ hearings of ‘the Committee, with the 7
exclusion of course ‘of anything that is. in Executive Session
unless | we thought there was something in ‘the Executive
Session that ‘should be released at that time.
Apparently there is nothing that ‘anyone can ‘think of.

Me. Devine.. fy have not thought ‘much - ‘about what we

have done ‘in Executive Session, is there. anything that anyone |

feels should be brought out? ii:

Mz. Edgar, Well, T ‘think that, whatever is sent to the

ai .

House Floor has to be on the isaues of the two assassinations
problems and I think yesterday’ s record of ‘the pleading of
the 5th is ‘an important thing to vhave available and at an.
appropriate time when we ‘Send over a : report to have the
public record of that hdaring make some sense. . I do not

know what. the _choreography-of that is when that takes Place.

There may be two or - three_other public hearings that we may

~ have: next week. I do ‘not know what the plans are, that —

, may be ineluded in ‘that. Of course, with pleading the ‘5th

Y

you do not have many pages of testimony but: whatever we
can share with the House publicly to justify our existence,
I think? is important to get beyond the March - 30 ‘deadline.
The Chaizman. ‘Yes,. I think: ‘that is very important. .
“all right, we will then see--because none of the members

“have even had a chance to correct any of the transcribed

 
@ ‘

10

.u

24

. C os

. - 6
at some time in the future on the charges having been made

by our previous Chairman but I am afraid if those are printed
up and made available to the public, that that is. what will
hit the headlines,again it reopens the wounds and I do not
think that we are prepared to meet that at this particular
time. ,

I think after we are reconstituted, assuming that hap-
pens, why them that is adequate time for the answers to
be given to the charges made actually unless you feel

some useful purpose would be served in trying to do it

to the confrontation we are going to have with the House

‘one of these days under the Rules Committee.

The Chairman. Well, actually, I agree with you. I
was concerned because Mr. McKinney had warned us to have
this done in Executive Session and a couple of other members
haa too, 80 thhatatheyecbutd then be sent to the other
members or some of the other members and someone even
mentioned putting it into the Congressional Record.

I think, putting it in the Congressional record even
has the same, very same situation about it in terms of
the news media grabbing that and getting back off where we
now have them.

Mr. Edgar. . Mr. Chairman.

The Chairman . Mr. Edgar.

Mr. Edgar. If they are trasneribed and typed out which

Docld:32266766 Page &
5
Sessions is kept under lock and key, the others are there
and available. Both are available, so that everything is
being transcribed when you talk about printing, I think
‘you are talking about the taking of the transcribed notes and
arranging for the Printing: Office*:to print’them ‘up.
) Mr. Devine. As part of Committee hearings and part
of the Committee report are two different things. The
different hearings there is no conclusion but the
Committee report contains them.
"Mr. Sprague. I do not see from the hearings the
public heariigs accept from the printing of rules which we
have gotten printed up.and which will be distributed, what
else iis to be printed from that. -
The Executive Sessions, and I am happy for the notes
from the hearing yesterday that we had, I am happy for
that to be available to whomsoever this Committee wants to
have that available to. 1 do not think it is a matter
just for general dissemination, unless. ‘the Committee wants
to. just have . dt t published in the news media from here
to there. |
It seems to me this was available more for the Conmittes
_ purposes should questions then arise but I have no
feelings one way or théother about it.
Mr.Devine. Mr. Chairman, I think from the standpoint

of Mr. Sprague, that he is entitled to be vindicated

 
6 e@

 

Docld: 32266766

The Chairman. Right.

Mr. Devine. so, I am not sure that any useful purpose
would be served in having those printed up because the
final rules of what we adopt are used for legislation of
the legislative report,

Do you know, John?

Mr. ‘Anderson. NO, I do at think it would be useful.
It would be just additional expenses to go ahead and
transcribe and print hearings that were inconsequential as
to what they produce. So, I think I would be agreeable to
implementation of what you say, since you started your tenure
as Chairman. That would be adequate.

The Chairman. alL right. Then are there .any matters
you can think of related to sessions that we have had in
Executive Session that we ought to release. I suppose that
matters in’ relation to Mr. Sprague's explanations yesterday
perhaps ought to be printed up, or we can have some dis-
cussion | as to whether ‘this should be.

Mr. Eagar. Mr. Chairman, is it proper and possible
to have two records made, one from the public sessions
since you have béen Chairman, and ‘one from the Executive
sessions that would be held until we have a careful review
of thos? . )

. The Chairman;: You, mean to have it printed up, Executiv:
Session printed up, for our purposes.

‘Mr. Edgar. Yes.

ge 5
Mr. Devine. I might say, those have a way of getting
out.
The Chairman. Yes.

Mr. Devine. And if they are printed up, of course,

, the Government ‘Printing Office has them. Do you know how

many copies are run off?

Mr. Edgar. I do not know what the Security provisions
are.

Mr. Devine. I would imagine we could have them
transcribed by the Reporter and retained in the custody of
the Chairman“until such time we feel that fnformation can
be released publicly.

Mr Edgar. I think we should have at least, have it
typed up and put together by the recorder.

The Chairman. Well, I would entertain a motion
that we do that.

_Mr. Devine. Mr. Chairman, I would like to have the
thoughts of counsel on whether he: feels that the information

he’ gave in Executive Session is of such a nature that it

“should or should not be revealed publitiysat:this: time.

Mr Sprague. ‘Mr. Devine, there are two things I
would say. Eact of the hearings in fact whether public
or in executive session have beén: transcribed and
are being transcribed, and we have the transcribed testi-

mony in our office. So that which is from the Executive

Docld:32266766 Page 6
 

. ; .
eta : , are

8 ABSA SINAN

Before The

(SERRE COMMETTEE ON ASSASSTNATIONS —

 

 ycapeaeegton, 0.
°  Maweh 17, 1977:
_-Aldersna-Regerting Sempany, ine.
Offend Repedtew
S00: Serentti a We Woshington-B, ©.
x SRA 2348

 

Docld: 32266786 Page 2. .
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

COMMENTS :

vi

 

Docld:32266786 Page 1

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

JFK Assassination System Date: 10/7/201

Identification Form

Agency Information
HSCA
180-10117-10011
NUMBERED FILES
014637

Document Information
HSCA

"HEARING BEFORE THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS; HOUSE OF REP..

03/17/1977
120

HSCA; ADMINISTRATION; STAFF
HSCA; METHODOLOGY
SPRAGUE, RICHARD A.

LEADS AND INFORMATION
HSCA; WITNESSES

TRANSCRIPT
Unclassified
Open in Full
Redact
08/16/1993

MLK material, pp. 90-100, 112-119, withdrawn. Box 266.
     

 

  

and has some mattexti‘that! he’ va bsg before” the”

EXECUTIVE. SESSION
te 2 mo
; inORSDAY, Marcu i7, 1977
Bultmap a a
LDR “U. 5. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
5 ‘SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
6 Washington,’ D.c. -
‘7 ~
8 The connittee ‘met, pursuant to notice: ‘at ‘lo’ as i. th
9 Room 2220 Rayburn House’ Office Building, the Honokablé ‘Louis
10 Stokes (Chairman of ‘the Gomi ttee) , présiding- :
n Present. Represéntatives Stokes. (Presiding) Faiintroy, :
12 Burke , Dodd, Ford, Fithian, Edgar, Devine,” Anderson,
‘Preyér, and. Thone. :
3 weet oc bei #
4 _Also- present. - Righard A. ‘Sprague, Chief Counsel aha
13 Staff Director, ‘Bob ‘Tannénbaun, Bob) “tehner?, steve: Fallis;
“46 Al. Lewis, ‘Pat Orr, James wolf; ‘Rebecéa' Martin, ‘Tom Howorth
7 | Burt Chadak, Bob Morrison , Prank Kelly; Polly Brown, Hank Spring
18 | ~
9 ‘The Chairman. “the meeting will come to: order? 7
|
20 | We are. still ‘in exetutive “session. ‘Supposadly, ‘only
on | Staff are “{n the room. °-
ai | . on
a |
23
24 |
25
|

 

‘Docla: 32266786 Page 3
 

ie

 

: 2
Committee. I told him that we would try to ‘adjust to his
Pp.

schedule, whenever he can get over.

One of the things: that we have to do is to ‘prepare
our report. for March 31 for the House. In that” conjunction,
we have never done anything really with respect to’ the
ordering of the hearings printed, of at least the “open
sessions that we have had. |

I guess fromthe beginnihg there has never been any
order to the Court Reporters to prepare anything so we
are really behind in-all of that.

Steven, is that your area?

Mr. Fallis. I will take care of it, if you want.

The Chairman. - I think definitely: we have to ‘have
our hdéarings printed. ‘Then it is up to the Committee
also to decide if any of the matters related to Executive
Session hearings are to be’ released. publicly also.

Mr. Devine. Mr. Chairman, how far back are you refer -
ring--just since you bécamé Chairman or prior to that
time? . . 7 Oo

the Chaisnan. ‘I am ‘really open © for-a discussion on
that, Mr. Devine. - I donde! ‘know’ how much of what it is, I
try to think back) of what we aid under our: previous
Chairman, whether thére was anything much to be--

Mr. Devine. “f: ‘think’ it was. -PreLininazy discussion rela-

“tive to adoption of. rules which was. finalizea since you

have been chairman.

Docld:32266786 Page 4
