 

 

 

 

 

 

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

Verhelle found that three other Directors also were borrowing
from PB at that time. Also about the same time a Director of
FDIC allegedly wanted to borrow $80,000.00 from PB, but
Verhelle refused because he did not feel the loan would be
easily collectible. ; ;

About two weeks after writing the Attorney General,
Verhelle allegedly was told he could have a complimentary
ticket to a $100-a-plate dinner for Vice President Lyndon B.
Johnson in Detroit, and Verhelle was to sit near the speaker's
table and a photograph would be taken of Verhelle and Vice
President Johnson together in a friendly pose. Verhelle
declined, purportedly because he "wouldn't: sell that cheap".
He indicated that a former Assistant Prosecuting Attorney in
Detroit, now on Vice President Johnson's staff, had something
to do with the above arrangements and still has some liaison
with Verhelle. Verhelle stated that at other Board meetings
during the examination he was criticized for loans he had
made and the Directors felt the loans they had | made to them-
selves were all right, so he “resigned™.

This document contains neither recommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

SREAGISS

NW 45712 Docid:32309292 Page 7

 
—

 

 

 

NW 45712

‘once stated that. he knew of a Vendorama company but it had

 

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; -
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

In regard to an impending trial of Hoffa before
United States District Judge Richard Austin in Chicago
Verhelle indicated he had learned that)
of Chicago, reportedly was well acquainted with political
associates of Judge Austin. Verhelle expressed great
interest in the fact that this acquaintanceship might be
of assistance to Hoffa, and_Verhelle indicated he would be
in contact with Hoffa and[— ]eoncerning this possibility.
Verhelle said he had previously been in contact wich
about 1961 in connection with Niagara Crushed Stone (Humber-

stone), Ltd. (NCS).
. GS LKZ

Ve apparently still has business contact
with Elliot/Janeway, with whom he had dealings in 1961 con-
cerning NCS,.' Janeway reportedly had something to do with

buying accounts receivable of NCS. It was also believed
that the Crown family of Chicago had a substantial ownership
in some of Janeway's operations, such as his economic ,
counseling service.

In regard to Vendorama of Ohio, Inc., Verhelle

nothing to do with NCS.

x

   
 
 

niche
In regard earborn Machinery Movers, Inc., now

bankrupt, Verhelle said! he had offered to buy this corpora-

tion's note, which was held by Public Bank, but Verhelle's

offer was not accepted arid he felt the bank would consequently

suffer a loss. Josept/Galli, former president of this corpora-

tion, is reporte (<} @-West Coast and has a business which
Verhelle is helping to-finance./N/ C/y ;
le

Verhelle also advised he had spent some time in the
Dominican Republic ~several years ago and while there he did
“business With Manuel pemayas bert (present head of a
military junta) and with the then dictator Trujillo. It was
believed this trip may have had some connection with Bartone
or other matters. . ¢ :

SMAI _

DociId:32309292 Page 5

OTHER 4

 
 

NW 45712

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

With regard to Verhelle's present relationship to
Public Bank, Detroit, (PB) he indicated he unofficially has
been helping PB's Board of Directors but PB recently had
made some loans which Verhelle believes will be uncollectible,
and he is looking forward to PB's collapse. Verhelle
indicated that while he was at PB the big loans always were
paid off and there were almost no defaults, with the exception
of small loans for $3,000.00 or less. Verhelle claimed he
has bought a bank on the outskirts of Detroit where two of
his sons are working and learning the banking business; and
at a propitious time this bank may open a branch office in
competition with PB and with the intention of picking up as
many PB accounts as possible. According to Verhelle the
following sequence of events led to his departure from PB:

On December 26, 1961, seventeen men arrived to
begin an examination of PB. Verhelle did not believe they
were from the regular State or Federal examining agencies
and was of the opinion they sounded more like lawyers than
bank examiners or auditors. He felt it was inconsiderate to
start an examination between the year-end holidays and also
he would have preferred to have PB's year-end figures “in
order" before the examiners arrived. This examination pre-
cipitated a series of meetings of the PB Board of Directors,
and Verhelle ‘objected to the manner in which one examiner
allegedly criticized a loan which had been made by PB to three |
Negroes. Verhelle wrote a letter to Attorney General Robert
F. Kennedy to protest the "irregular" manner in which the .
examination was being conducted, but allegedly no reply was
received. Verhelle encouraged the Chairman’of the Board of
Directors not to attend one of the meetings, causing a delay
and necessitating written notices for such meetings. About |
that time Verhelle decided to go to a hospital for a thorough |
physical examination and rest. Upon his return to PB he was
told by one of the officers that in Verhelle's absence one of
the Directors allegedly wanted to borrow $150,000.00 from PB |
but. the officer refused that amount and only lent him $50,000.00.

-4-

 

— SRAEANQV SS

DociId:32309292 Page 6
 

UT gg

FBI

Date: 11/12/63

 

1
|
|
i
|
|
|
|
|
l
l
|

Transmit the following in |

(Type in plain text or code)

 

 

AM
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

| ;
en Si DETROIT (29-1432) (P)

Lf la f ca .
jf sas RIDDLE HOFFA; RE A iy ptt ff
DOMINIK EDWARD BARTONE, aka my KK [x

ET AL ae
FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW;
CONSPIRACY
(00: DETROIT)

Remyairtels 11/7 and 8/63.

 

 

Enclosed herewith is a letterhead memorandum containing
information concerning JOSEPH F, VERHELLE and others. This

information w: ment Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH,
Detroit, from / One copy each of the
letterhead memorandum is being furnished Chicago and Miami

inasmuch as resides in Chicago and information con-
cerning DOM NE of the Miami Division is also contained
in the memorandum,

One copy of the letterhead memorandum also is being furnished
to Department Attorney FRENCH at Detroit.

ares Bureau (Enc. iy a
1 - Chicago(Info.,) (29-1999) (Enc. 1)
1 - Miami (Info og (29-1217) (Enc. 1)

1 - Detroit
io) ey
er & re Wn Ga WIC HEC 16 L7-, J/ 887—- /s
&y oS ry 9 NOVL8 1963
{ 2 Otdhnind Sivi Morf! a ‘
Alf [44 © afin? “a .

  

Attention:, Mr: Walter J. Sheridan
LL 2500°*

A 20183 te fa s. Spee

Appi ad Sent __.___sssM Per

 

 

Special Agent in Charge

    
   

OTHER 4

 

 

 

NW 45712 Docid:32309292 Page 2
 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER’:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :.

COMMENTS : ,

 

v9.1
NW 45712 Docid:32309292

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-10298-10079
HQ
29-31889-159

Document Information

FBI
SAC, DE
DIRECTOR, FBI

11/12/1963
7

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Consulted

Redact

10/18/1996 “

APPROVAL OF DOJ

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LHM

. 32
Page 1

 

Date:

4/21/201
 

 

oN aA
UN. sD STATES DEPARTMENT OF  STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

In Reply, Please‘ Refer to Detroit, Michigan
File No. , November 12, 1963

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK
EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL :
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE
ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN

HEREIN 1S [G3 >, PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY
pate ZO=1 A CMe CONSPIRACY
pach.

The following infoypation, based upon statements Za Ke f
reportedly made by Joseph pAverbelie at various times in “(4/ et
the past, was received by the Departmént of Justice from a a“

confidential source who has furnished reliable information
in the past: :

 

 

At present Verhelle apparently is not so personally
antagonistic’ toward Dominick Edward Bartone as he had
indicated he was in the past. Véerhelle evidently is aware
of current plans by’ Bartone regarding a real estate develop-
ment, in Florida, the amounts of money required, etc. In
regard to Bartone's appearance before a Federal Grand Jury
at Detroit in about September, 1963, Verhelle commented that
"they" had difficulty getting Bartone to agree to "take the \
Fifth", Verhelle stated that he, himself, also had "taken
the Fifth" before a Federal Grand Jury at Detroit recently.
Verhelle was relieved that the subpoena did not require him
to bring personal or bank records; and he indicated that
records pertinent to this matter are presently in Canada, but
he could produce them in Detroit very quickly if he needed
them. .

a ne

Verhelle expressed pride in having been able to |
avoid service of the Grand Jury subpoena for several weeks
and mentioned that he did so with the encouragement and
assistance of his wife. Verhelle finally accepted service
of the subpoena only after Lawrence Burns, a Detroit Teamsters
attorney who is a neighbor of Verhelle, had talked With a |

 

/ gga gond >

a re lee —

 

NW 45712 Docid:32309292 Page 3
 

 

 

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; .
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

process server who was keeping close watch outside Verhelle's
house one night after Verhelle had surreptitiously darted in
the back door. Verhelle said that the following morning he
talked to James R. Hoffa who told him they should use
separate attorneys.

. Verhelle claims he is very busy as a financial
consultant, has full knowledge of the investments of Hoffa
and Walter Reuther, and handles investments for both of them.
Verhelle sees Hoffa when he is in town and talkes to him on
the telephone very frequently. Rather than call Hoffa or
Reuther from his home, Verhelle now leaves the house and uses
one of several public telephone booths in the vicinity.
Verhelle goes to Chicago approximately every ten days or two
weeks and attends all meetings of the Teamsters Central States
Investment Committee as well as unofficial but decisive meetings
’ which precede the committee meetings. Verhelle claims to
have an important part in deciding what loans will be made
even before a preliminary check has-been made concerning an
application. Verhelle appeared to be familiar with the status
of equity holders and mortgages in regard to the Shoreland
Hotel in Chicago. Verhelle indicated that ‘when in Chicago he
also talks to officers of the Continental National Bank,
particularly an Executive Vice President by the name of Miller
who may have joined the bank staff recently through its merger
with another bank.

Verhelle indicated that both Hoffa and Reuther think
highly of the present Governor of Michigan, George Romney, but
feel he is too naive. Mrs. Romney is a close friend of Mrs.
Verhelle and visits her home about every three weeks. Verhelle
has been very close to the former Governor of Michigan, John B.
Swainson, and thinks he has a good chance of making a political
comeback, but Verhelle is concerned about Swainson now being
“spoiled", that is, not being so sychophantic as previously.

 

 

NW 45712 Docid:32309292 Page 4
