Released under the John/F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017

ne? , oO

-. PART II

i. SRCTION 9, CLASSIFICATION - CHARACTER - COPIES - ABBREVIATIONS

OO......2-.0ffice of Origin REURAL.....Reference Is Made to Your
Radiogram
COT. .e.00..0b8truction of Justice :
. REURCAB....Reference Is Made to Your
OSD....6...0ffice of Secretary of Cablegram
Defense
REUREP.....Reference Is Made to Your
OSTAF......0ffice of Special Investiga- Report
‘ tions, Air Force :
. REURLET....Reference Is Made to Your

FAREN......Parenthesis Letter

PCFM......sPolice Cooperation — REURTEL....,Reference Is Made to Your
Foreign Miscellaneous Teletype or Telegram

FD, ..e206..Police Department RFCA.......Reconstruction Finance

Corporation. Act
FERJ.eeee.-Perjury
RUC...e4..eReferred upon Completion
PSI. .eee.-eePotential Security Informant to Office of Origin

{ PV. ..eeee.- Parole Shesece
Violator

«eeeSpecial Agent

SAA seeeeee Special Agent Accountant
\ RAs eeeee. Registration Act

SAB. eee... Sabotage
RACON.e....Racial Condition

SAC ...s0ee.Special Agent in Charge
RCA.....-..Red Cross Act

SBAw.seee.e.Small Business Administration
[RouPe sees Boye Canadian Mounted l(s)

Police SDAA. ......Servicemen's Dependents
Allowance Act of 1942
REBUCAB,...Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram SE.....--..Special Employee

REBULET....Reference Is Made to SED. .e0.+eSedition
Bureau Letter :
SGE........Security of Government
REBURAD,...Reference Is Made to Employees
Bureau Radiogram
SI. ecescescsSecurity Informant
REBUTEL....Reference Is Made to Bureau .

Teletype or Telegram SISS.......Senate Internal Security
Subcommittee
RECAB.....eReference Is Made to 7
Cablegram SKA. .......Switchblade Knife Act
RELET.,...,.Reference Is Made to Letter SM...0..2-.Seourity Matter
RERAD,...2..Reference Is Made to SO..eeeeeeeSheriff's Office
Radiogram
SFeeeeeeeesState Penitentiary or
REREP,.....Reference Is Made to Report State Prison
RETEL.....,Reference Is Made to SPA.s......Surplus Property Act ~

Teletype or Telegram
: SPI.....+--eSpecial. Inquiry

* — ‘ SPOL.eeeeseState Police

 

19
7-30-59
Docld:32318836 Page 5
 

i 4 USC 2107 Hote).
dad der the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 {4 }
Released unde .

DATE: 11-14-2017

 

. , MANUAL CF RULES

 

INDEX
References are to part,

 

Sac (eontinued}

inaure {cortinued)

empl familiar with Sovernment employ-
policy, know identity of
: Erployment Policy Officer, 1-10-23

Supervisors familiar with nondisorimination
. employment poliay, I=)0-3 ;
interviewing Bureau employee aspiring to

- agent position, I-2-2

leave, I-4-8;IT-2-3
letters, II-6-51,

approval, IT-4.52

  
 

Pome

  

’ Xit r

recommendation re re:nstatement, I=12-5

letters of, Inl204

property, ing, Iel2-4-

tencerec during personnel action
taguiry, I-$-4

 

 

Responsibility, fixing? Iz-201
Rest periods, I~16-8
Restrictive words or phrases, 11-46-33
Retention
of Bureac materi
of property, II-s-i¢
rignts of ex-servicemen, I-12-i
Retirement

 

 

I-1—4

 

indexing, I1-3%5
reproduoing, II-2-ia
peourity afforded, TI~3-1
iat of clerical employees by grade and x00,
In6-2
make sure employees not living in question-
able quarters, I-14-2
may recommend

  

Clerical superivisors, 1-7-2
Promotion of Speaial agent, I-6-6
1 e must report improper conduct, I-1-)

Service Retirement, } Press releases to be handled by, II~6-1
cenversion of insurance, i-l4-15 resident agent, acquainted with work of before
t receipts, II-3-2,18 recommending, II-2-7
responsitie fer :

firearma, IJ-3-1a
maintenance of office, Ir-3-1
Property, Ti-3-1
radio
“equipment,
personne),
Speaking engagements handled ty,
sutmission of performance rating
Supervision of resident agents,
to Rave listed phone, II-4-64
to igspect resident agencies, rr-2-16
to issue OTE
to presec:
award letters,
service award,
fe receive report of presence of expicyees,
travel of, Il~2-3
whereabouts of, II-2-2,3
Safe-dercs ox, TI-3-12;Ti-s-21
Safe driving record certification,
Safes
rode her pads kept

acvantage of working fcr Bureau, 1-2-3
Civil Service, I-15-1 (See also Civil

        

 

 

tof

 
 

=

 

  
   

 
      

  

nt of empisyee re demotion ts be
“Sect with communication recommen in
ing reassignment, I-§-40

 

to, Ti-4-53
coat of living allowances, In12-4
transfers ‘to, [-12-3
Satisfactory performacce rating, T-5-2,4
Schedule 4, rate per 100 pounds. Ti-7-8,9
School literature, T-1a-4
Searching Procedures,
least Seat of Government
requests for transfers, 2-122
tests, I-s-]
Seoret
Ciassifioation, II-4-53 (see alas cd sified
information under BO 10501, )
Phone systems (installationa prohibited), r~
Secretary ef Later, 4-15
Security
checks of telepbone and teletype Lines, II-3-2
files, destruction cf copies 9? serials, Ti-3-:

 

 

  

   

cyment ;

O59 at Agents’ and 3-5

 

 

    

 

Government employees ,
office of origin, Irae?

Fesults of investigacion, cerera:
rules
crmatier,
ceded comm

 
 
        

Sour
void diserimtna-
rel6

ral
on 2a.

 

Docld: 32318836 Page 6.
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote).
DATE: 11-14-2017 . -

ee O PART II ©

_ SECTION 8, MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

€ \ 7. %QInformation desired from outside the field office territory
1 a. Investigative information from another field division is to be
: obtained by that office unless extraordinary haste requires direct
, communication, When the exigencies of a case, emergencies, or
economy and common sense dictate, an employee, if authorized by
his SAC, may enter an adjoining field division. The SAC of the
4 entered division is to be advised immediately. :
bo. Information which should be obtained by direct communication even
though the addressee is in another field division
(1) For disposition of arrests, use FD-10 to obtain incomplete
information, Make notation on identification record or other
t pertinent serial in file that FD-10 has been sent. When FD-10
. is returned, note pertinent information from form in file and
i forward FD-10 to Identification Division in lieu of a disposi- -
1 tion sheet (R-84),
) Automobile registrations data
Driver's license information
Similar data
Filing of detainers with some agency
Status of detainers
Government bonds = Use FD-123, concerning purchase or redemp—
vi tions; specify information desired; send FD-123 in duplicate,
: c. Investigations in foreign countries
i Agents have no jurisdiction in foreign countries. Within
; limitations border office Agents may, through liaison with
cooperative foreign agencies in adjacent countries, arrange
i for investigations to be conducted. This should be done in

a circumspect manner to avoid any allegation of a violation

of the sovereignty of the foreign country, Where interviews

are oonducted in a foreign country in the presence of and/or

at the request of a Bureau Agent, the Bureau Agent should

' insure that the person interviewed understands that the interview

: is being conducted by authority of the officer of the host

country and not the Agent. This should not preclude the Agent,
where proper, from discreetly assisting the foreign officer in
extracting all information of Bureau interest during the interview.
Bureau Agents have no jurisdiction in foreign countries, no

power of arrest, search, or seizure and must be most circumspect,
They are not to be present at the scene of an arrest by foreign

i authorities, participate in or be present during searches

: incidental to such arrests, accompany foreign officials trans-—
porting prisoners, or participate in interviews of prisoners
except at their place of incarceration and in the presence of
foreign authorities, The Agent should refrain from unauthorized
acts even though invited to do so by the foreign cooperating
officer,

(2) Where official business requires more than two days ina foreign
country, authority must be obtained from the Bureau, The letter
requesting it is sent UACB and must contain an estimate of the
time to be spent, .

ao : {2} [Deleted]

7 : : (4) Offices covering leads in Canada
! (Offices along the Canadian border through liaison with coopera—
: tive Canadian law enforcement agencies handle Canadian leads in

criminal matters where time is of the essence and in criminal

Matters of local interest, (heads On security matters where time
is of the essence or where previously approved by the Bureau are
handled with RCMP by border offices on a divisional headquarters

i : level. While the RCMP is exclusively charged with investigation

NOUAWN

 

 

, of security matters in Canada, not all Personnel are indoctrinated
in the handling of these matters and personnel at detachment

levels may not be in a position to render adequate assistance, Ms)

<
mn

1-27-59
DoclId:32318836 Page 2
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 |

DATE: 11-14-2017 JFK Assassination System Date: 4/13/201
. Identification Form

 

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER:  124-10366-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: NO FILE NUMBER J

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/31/1957
*PAGES: 303

SUBJECTS :
MIOG - 1960
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 12/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REVISION NUMBER 48

v9.1 1
| Docld:32318836 Page 1
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: 11-14-2017 :

_. } CO

ee : PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

Matters not. falling within the above categories should be
referred to the Bureau for handlingfwith RCMP headquarters 1](S )
4 See section 4, D, 1n, (2), part II, this manual for metho
in whioh these leads are to be set out.)
The Province of British Columbia — Seattle Office
The Provinoes of Alberta and Saskatchewan ~ Butte Office
The Province of Manitoba — Minneapolis Office
The Province of Quebec - Albany Office
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland — Boston Office
The Province of Ontario ~— Buffalo and Albany Offices with the
exoeptions as noted in subsections I, II, and III, Buffalo
is to handle leads west of Trenton, Ontario, including
Trenton, Albany is to handle leads east of Trenton, Ontario,
I, That portion of the Province of Ontario lying immediately
adjacent to the Detroit Offioe, inoluding the cities of
. Windsor, London, St, Thomas, and Chatham — Detroit Office
f II, That portion of the Provinoe of Ontario immediately ocon-
cose t tiguous to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office
III, That portion of the Provinoe of Ontario immediately
north of the northern boundary of Minnesota, including
. the citiés of Port Arthur, Fort William, and Kenora -
Minneapolis Office
(5) Offices covering leads in Mexico ;
Investigations within 25 miles of the Mexican Border are handled
by border offices on a liaison basis with the exception of
San Diego Office which handles leads approximately 60 miles
south of the border, inoluding the oity of Ensenada, Baja
California, and the Phoenix Office which handles leads in
Cananea, Sonora, Other leads are to be sent to the Bureau.
(a) The State of Chihuahua (conti’guous portion) — Albuquerque
Office
3 The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) -— El Paso Office

MaRnROTP

 

The State of Sonora - Phoenix Office
The States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon,and Tamaulipas — San Antonio
Office :
(e) Northern territory of Baja California — San Diego Office
a. Information relative to convictions, sentences, and places of incar-
ceration reoeived from USAs or judges need be verified by examination
of court records only when accuracy questioned,
8. Title 18, USC, § 474, prohibits the photographing of any national bank
+ ourrency, Federal Reserve notes, U, S, or foreign government securities
or obligations, except by direction of some proper officer of the U. S,
However, part 404, chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of. Federal Regulations,
grants authority to all banks and banking institutions to make film records
of paper money, U. S. Government securities and checks, and to project
,, Suoh records on a soreen provided the film records are maintained as
oonfidential, This part states that no prints, enlargements, and other
reproduotions of such film records may be made except with the permission
of the Secretary of the Treasury, the Treasurer of the U, S., the
Commissioner of Public Debt, the Chief of the Secret Service Division,
or such officers as may be designated by them.

C. TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS. AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BUREAU
1. Confidential oharacter of FBI records
Departmental Order 3229 (Revised), signed by the Attorney General on
1-43-53, and published in the Federal Register 3-10-53, revokes
previous Departmental Order 3229 and all supplements thereto. It pre~
soribes the prooedure to be followed when an employee is served with a

10
a) 1-27-59
DoclId:32318836 Page 3
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.
DATE: 11-14-2017 .

: e PART IT O

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

5. Eaoh office receives at least one copy of the cinal letter, which is
to be retained in the office files and whioh may be destroyed after
three years if of no value. Those offices receiving multiple copies
are to destroy the extra copies within one week of receipt, except the
New York Office which may retain two copies
6. Dissemination
a. Each legal attache should insure that the dissemination of oinal
information is handled under the prevailing rules for dissemination
{ of olassified information to foreign agenoies and that adequate
Proteotion is afforded oinal information in acoordanoce with the
[ classification set forth on each oinal.
[ b. Page 1 of the cinal letter now bears the statement: "This document
is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its. oontents are
to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.*”
{ c. Before the legal attaches' oopies of the cinal letter sre sent from
the Bureau, the material contained therein is reviewed, and the items
[ whioh may be disoussed with foreign sources by the legal attaches are
{ marked with asterisks, The items whioh do not have an asterisk
t are not to be discussed with foreign sources.
a. Selected items from the cinal letters may be discussed by the legal
\ attaches with the,.U. S, Embassy and intelligence representatives
where they are assigned, but the letter itself is not to be
disseminated to these persons.
e. The legal attache at Ottawa is permitted to disseminate one oopy
of each cinal letter to the [Royal Canadian Mounted Portoe. Tie)

 

11-27-59
DoclId:32318836 Page 4
