   

NK 92-937
“NRL: bac

ADMINISTRATIVE : {ORK Act 6 (4)

New Haven and New York will note that the.
Administrative pages do not include the _photostat copies of
the information made available by PCI a on
2/8/62 as this information is not pertinent to those divisions,
The Bureau is being furnished a complete set of the photostats

in each of the three reports, Newark is retaining one set
and Detroit is being furnished a set for information,

IJ
COVER PAGE
HW 45927 DocId:32301861 Page 9
ANFORMANTS
Identity of. Source ;

RK T=1..
NY 1716-¢

NK T= 7

NK 3-3. :

PCI JOSEPH SINNO

(brother: of. missing..560 -
organizor. SALVATORE ° SEO) |

 

NK T~4
NK 2182-C

NE T-5

Mrs. Landiady :
SALVATORE SINNO's former ‘residence .
1615 Hudson Boulevard -

North Bergen, New | Jersey

NK TB
PCI JOSEPH SINNO

NK T=7 :
re

BE 3-8

Special Agent. PAUL.G. MAHON
‘Intelligence Unit

Internal Revenue: Service
: 250 _Livingston. Street.
Brooklyn, New -York-

(By request) “

RK 729.
RY. 3453-C#

NK T-11.

Mrs. WINIFRED. SINNO, Estranged wife
of. SALVATORE: .SINNS, former ‘organizor..
of, Local.. 560 oe

LL
- COVER PAGE

HW 45927) DocId:32301661 Page 10
ae Wan
ie
Sot “a
ie ie
. é GeoRGE M EicHurer

CowN SE LILO AT [Liaw
g2t BERGEN AVENUE

Jersey City 6 NEW JERSEY

SWARTHMORE 18-6700

January: 11, 1962:

Clifford B. Finkle Jr., President:

Passaic: Terminal and Transportation. Co. Inc.
Bloomfield Avenue.

Allwood Sect hon

Clifton, NiJ.

. Re: Employer Trustees
; ‘and
Union Trustees of the Trucking
Employees of Passaic and Bergen
County Welfare Fund.
Dear ir. Finkle:
Enclosed herewith please find copy of Memo-
randum on behalf of Employer Trustees im the above. en-

titled matter.

Very truly yours,

{y

 

(GME. simak,

Enel.

SJ
COVER. PAGE

_ aw 45927 DocId:32301861 Page &

 
 

L__}stated that on the approval of the trustees
of the Passaic and Bergen Counties Fund and PROVENZANO ,
-PASKOW was. furnished checks. ine ‘the amount of $200,000, 60 and
$275,000 500. . :

ee | related that the loan of $200, 000 at 6 per
cent interest for an unrecalled number of years went. to two
_ brothers, the names of whom he could not recall who own a.
bowling alley located in New Brunswick, . New-Jersey. This
loan was ostensibly for improvements of their alleys. —

. fhe sum of $275,000 at 6: ‘per cent: for fifteen. years
was furnished. the ‘owners of the Pine Brook. Auction, Route 46,
Pine Brook, New Jersey. [____] stated that. this group) >
placed their. building and 12 acres of land up as collateral
for this Joan.

:- PCL advised that he possesses. no derogatory
-information. concerning PASKOW.of the firmé he represented.
. in these negotiations; however, he thought this: information.
worthy of mention. ' TL _Idid’ state, however, that a
“possibility exists that PROVENZANO and others. in the
‘Teamsters Union who would finally authorize these loans
could Be receiving a percentage of the: mortgage: money :
for having placed their stamp of. approval on these matters. |
It. should . be noted that in the other case where the PCI
‘made. available ‘information ‘concerning a $460,600 loan’ by
560 to the United States Glass and Chemical Company of
Pittsburgh and New. York, an investigation revealed that
_ this firm was,at the time of the loan, under . investigation
by the Securities. Exchange Commission, It was determined
that this firm. had changed its name to United. States
-Diversified Industries asa result of this: pending
-investigation.

At. the ‘conclusion. of the contact with .
he made available the following documents , which were
photostated and returned: :

‘Le “A méeworandum submitted. to the New jersey

' : "State Board of Mediation, 1100 ‘Raymond —
- Boulevard,. Newark, by GEORGE M, EICHLER,
Attorney for the employer trustees of the *
trucking employers of Passaic and Bergen .
‘Counties Welfare Fund, whose offices are
located at. 922 Bergen. Avenue, Jersey City,
New Jersey.

oa qH-
| COVER PAGE

HW 45927 DocId: 32301861 Page 7 .
HW 45927

   

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 2/8/62, PCI ee 2 8. contacted,
at which time he advised that severa matters had been ~

brought to his attention concerning the activities of |
Local 560 which he thought worthy of mention, - He explained
that since the inception of 560°s Welfare and Pension \
Programs, the Passaic-Bergen Counties’ ‘Fund has operated at
a profit, whereas the Hudson County Fund has had deficits |
periodically. PCI explained that even though this fact

is easily proven by the annual audits, Local 560's attorney,
JACOB FRIEDLAND, attended the last Board of Trustees
meeting which was held just prior to Christmas QoL _and—
demanded that the Passaic-Bergen Board of Trustees

is a Boaxd member) raise the employer contribution rate
from $.31 per hour to. ‘the Hudson County rate of $.33 per
hour.

  

stated that he was vacationing in Florida
at the time of this meeting, however, learned on return
that the other two employer trustees, ALBERT SCALEITI and

MARCHINI, voted against the proposal of FRIEDLAND.

/learned that FRIEDLAND explained to the Board that’
the $,.02 differential between the Hudson and the Passaic=
Bergen Fund had created suspicion among the Hudson County
Terminal owners and investigative agencies and felt that
both funds should therefore immediately establish the same
identical contributory rates.

a that the second problem brought -
before the Trustees has been FRIEDLAND’s insistance that

the employers of all 560 members contribute the $.33 per

hour Welfare and Pension rate for all casual help regard-

less of whether the individuals are members of 560, The

PCI explained that in the majority of cases where a

terminal requires additional man power, generally in

Passaic and Bergen Counties, the union is unable to supply

the men needed. When this occurs, he and other terminal
operators have an available supply of labor which will

work their regular employment and thereafter join the

night or early morning shifts at the particular termina’

in need of man power, He related that in almost all cases .
when this type of labor is hired, the men are members of unions .
other than 560. FRIEDLAND’s insistance that the trucking

F
COVER PAGE

DocId:32301861 Page 5
NRL: spa

NK 92-937

operators contribute $.33 an hour for non-Teamster ‘help.
which is hired, is not only suspicious but unjustified.

He stated that when the employer members - of. the
Board of Trustees refused to vote in favor of these two
proposals by FRIEDLAND, FRIEDLAND demanded that they bring
the matters before the New Jersey State Board_of Mediation,
1100 Raymond Boulevard, Newark, New Jersey.
thereafter produced a copy of State Mediator’s THOMAS A.
KNOWLTON’s decision and award in both of the above proposals.
Both questions, namely, increasing the Passaic-Bergen
truckers contribution to $.33 per hour and the contribution
of $.33 to 560°s Welfare. and Pension Fund for non-union

. men, was adjudicated in favor. of the union, both effective

as of 2/1/62. -

Co stated that he and. all other trucking |
employers with whom he has been in. ‘contact since this
decision was reached by KNOWLTON, ‘are outraged for several
reasons: first, why should the Pagsaic-Bergen operators

‘be forced to. increase their rates from $.31 to $.33

per hour when their fund issolvent and Hudson Connty ’s
Fund which receives $.33 per hour is running into deficit;

‘second, why should the employers in Passaic and Bergen

Counties contribute Welfare and Pension monies to 560
for men who are not members of that union, particularly,
when these men will not. be entitled to insurance, medical
treatment and pension, rights under 560s contract. |
fos’ Ae e/

PCT ata ed thet he is of the opinion that State.
Mediator THOMAS Ax KNOWLTON has been “bought” by PROVENZANO
in order to have re jered . a decision in the union’s favor.

   

 
  
 

 

[related that the next matter brought to
his attention involves the loans of $200,000.00 and
$275,000.00 by Local 560°s Welfare Fund to two separate

business firms within the past three: months.

' PCI explained that one SEYMOUR VBASKOW, a Newark ('

realtor, approached the Passaic-Bergen | junty Board of

Trustees and informed them that he had ‘learned that Local 560
was making available funds ‘for mortgages. PASKOW stated
that he. then had two clients in need ofworking capital and

thereafter presented to the Board a picture of his clients’

HW 45927

net worth, including bills, rent, and potential.

G
COVER PAGE

Docld:32301861 Page 6°

TER Act 6

(4)
FY ¥

NK 92-937

NRL: spa
PPC RCE 6.4) ADMINISTRATIVE

 

 

on 1/31/62, PCL Caney peparenctyteet that
the Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC), Department of the State
of New Jersey, is insisting that all members of the teamsters

unions complete a questionnaire which in part pertains to
their .criminal background if any. In cases where a teamster
member has been arrested, he is required to set forth on
this questionnaire the date of his arrest, the charge, -

. and the disposition, plus a photograph for the files of the
ABC.. AS a.result of the C's insistence that this
questionnaire be completed“in its entirety, ANTHONY
PROVENZANO ordered JA FRIEDLAND, attorney for Teamsters
Joint Council 73, to fight this issue in the courts if
necessary in order to prevent the disclosure of any teamster's
background. . ;

 
  
  

‘| related that as a result of this request.
by ABC, : PROVENZANO had a memo prepared and distributed
to all teamsters within the State of New Jersey, which
informed the membership that this order by the ABC was
illegal and that the membership was not required to complete
the portion of the questionnaire which pertained to the
criminal background, PCI[( __]advised further that
this memo instructed the membership to immediately report
any situation where the management of a particular firm
insisted that this be completed.. This was to have
been immediately reported to PROVENZANO'’s office but
under no circumstances were the members to complete it
‘if they. did not. desire to.

PCI stated that JACOB FRiEpLaw's gon, DAVID,
a young attorney, who recently joined his father’s
' practice, was understood to have been responsible for the
research into the legal precedence on this m matter. : ! ed
* w OF pP

: ee stated that the recent: arrest f,
gavarons GRTGGLS” NUNZIO- VENZANO;, and EUSTICEy
by the Néw York City. Police Department has not. BIC
cussed by any of the officials of Local 560. to date. :
PCI stated that the. fact that they have not discussed ~
this matter indicates that the lesser known figure of
these three; namely, ROBER, will in all probability.

-be ordered to admit the extortion and thereby exonerate
PROVENZANO’s Wrothers MUNZIO, and BRIGUGLIO,

ar a ae
oe At that point, — made available a 29-
page pamphlet entitled, "Your Pension Program, Pension
. Fund of Trucking Employees of North Jersey Welfare Fund, Inc.”

    
    

HW 45927) DocId:32301661 Page 2 B
AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45927 DocId: 32301661

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
FBI
124-10279-10196
HQ
CR 92-521 5.25

Document Information

FBI
LINKER, NORBERT R.
DIRECTOR, FBI

04/30/1962
126

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

05/12/1999

INDEFINITE

INC ADMIN PAGE

Page 1

Date:

Released under the John
. Eennedy
Assassination Records
Ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NW 45927 Date:
Hi-i?-2017

 

6/24/201
NK 92=937 _
NRL: spa

The provisions of this pamphlet sets forth the following
officials responsible for the management of this phase
of the teamsters operation in New Jersey.

The administrator of the fund is reflected as
MARVIN ZALK; Legal Counselors are JACOB FRIEDLAND and
LOUIS P, BRENNER; Consulting Actuaries are Johnson and
Higgins, New York, New York; Investment Counselor is
listed as Ld¢hman Brothers, New York, New Yozs, The Board
of Trustees for the Pension Fund are listed in a two-
part breakdown, one being for the union and the other.
for the employers. The trustees representing. the.union ~
. are listed as: LAWRENCE MC DERMOTT , EDYARD. HUGHES , A and
WILLIAM FARRELL. The repres ‘the |

geplorere are Rex [p

+ -sivicea 1 that MC DI
- agent for Local 641, IBT; HUGHES is business agent for
Local 560; and. FARRELL is business agent for Local 617.

identified SAMUEL PETIX as an official
of the Denver Chicago Trucking Company of Secaucus, New
Jersey, and CLARENCE FRANKEL as the terminal manager of
Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., Jersey City, New Jersey.

 
 

    

is business

The pamphlet goes into: the intricacies of the
Pension. Fund setting forth those who are and who are not
eligible for a pension of $125 upon reaching the age of
65. The pamphlet reflects that there are five types of .
pensions available to teamster members, the highest
in dollar rating being $125 per month.

Cc
COVER PAGE

HW 45927 DocId:32301661 Page 3
HW 45927

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 3/28/62, PCI L__] was recontacted, ‘at which
time he advised that approximately one month ago he attended
a Local 560 Board of Trustees’ meeting in the offices of
the local’s attorney, Mr. JACOB FRIEDLAND, He stated that
during the course of this meeting, FRIEDLAND announced
that the loan of $275,000 of Welfare Fund money, which was
to have been made available to the owners of the Pine Brook
Auction, Route 46, Pine Brook ,” Rew Jersey, had’ fallen
through in that it had been determined by FRIEDLAND that
the owner of this establishment hed committed: suicide,

| stated that although he has been unable
to determine the identities of the individuals who are
to receive a $200,000.00 loan for the resovation of their
bowling alley located -in the vicinity of New Brunswick, .
New Jersey, he has received information indicating that
this business firm is owned by two brothers of Italian

 

extraction who reside in the North Hudson County area.

advised that PROVENZANO has apparently issued
orders to his business agents and organizors to be more
discreet in their dealings with employers as conversation
‘in the trucking industry indicates that very few employers
are at this time having difficulty with the enforcement
of the area wide contract. ‘stated that this is a
result of the adverse. publicity ich PROVENZANO has re=
ceived in local newspapers of late and believes this
period of relative peace will continue at least through
the period in which his own litigation is. pending.

[Jetatea that inquiries by the FBI at
trucking terminals through the metropolitan Newark
area have also alerted the business agents, stewards,
and organizors; and, therefore, they. are being very
circumspect in their dealings with the employers and
teamster members. ~

 
 

[(c——] stated that he will attempt to dis-
ereetiy obtain the identities of the owners of the
bowling alley establishment to whom PROVENZANO is making

available $200,000 of Local 560 Welfare Fund money.

‘COVER PAGE

DocId:32301861 Page 4
