HW 54214

 

inside Cuba with full covert use of military facilities and personnel,
there is an excellent chance of inciting a revolt inside Cuba by late
1963. This would require maximal effort keyed to a phased plan
and would require decision now to commit U.S. Forces to support
such a revolt since, even if incited, such a revolt cannot be kept
alive more than a few days. in the face of Cuban military and
security counteraction unless the revolt is supported by substantial
military forces. This phasing is necessary too since, unless we
can assure the Cubans that if they are able to revolt they will be
supported, our chances of inducing them to engage in resistance
and revolt to a sufficient extent to constitute more than an irritant
to the Castro regime are remote. Details and specifics of the
necessary actions to implement this course of action have been
discussed with you on a number of occasions. Basic to success-
ful implementation of such a course of action, and particularly

the clandestine operational phases thereof, are a series of policy
decisions by higher authority at the inception which would permit |
the operational units sufficient flexibility and freedom of action
and decision within clearly understood policy parameters to
effectively implement the operations involved on a phased basis.

"d. Use a provocation and overthrow the Castro-Communist

regime by U.S. military force: This course of action involves
a policy decision by higher authority beyond the purview of CIA.

If higher authority decides on this course of action, CIA is of
course prepared to assist in developing the necessary provocation
to justify such intervention and to assist in implementing this
course of action with full intelligence and covert assets.

5. It is hoped that the above comments will be of some assistance

to you in preparing your overall report on Phase I of Operation Mongoose
to the Special Group (Augmented). It would be most appreciated if you
would make available to us copies of your report to the Special Group in
order that we may comment as appropriate. If any further details or
comments from us would be helpful, please let me know.

(signed)

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

 

DocId: 32977065 Page 3
HW 54214

 

4. FUTURE COURSES OF ACTION:

Set out below are comments on the four possible future courses of

action outlined in Paragraph 5 of reference memorandum:

"a. Cancel operational plans; treat Cuba as a Bloc nation;

protect hemisphere from it:'"' If this course of action is adopted
by higher authority, it will not result in the overthrow or probably

in any material change in the Castro regime in the foreseeable
future. If this course of action is adopted, the extent of effort
currently being devoted by CIA and other agencies to Operation
Mongoose should be reviewed and reconsidered and probably
seriously curtailed. If this course of action is adopted, the U.S.
Government will of course receive increased pressure from the
multitudinous Cuban exile groups and will be faced with an
increasing level of irresponsible unilateral Cuban actions based
in and from the U.S.

"b. Exert all possible diplomatic, economic, psychological
and other pressures to overthrow the Castro-Communist regime
without overt U.S. military commitment:" This course of

action, which is very close to that undertaken in Phase I of
Operation Mongoose, is not likely to result in the overthrow of
the Castro regime in the foreseeable future and unless it is
intensified to the point of substantially raising the ''noise level"
inside and outside the U.S., its effectiveness is likely to be
limited to the collection of intelligence and to the containing of
Cuba at about the present level. If this course of action is

adopted, certain portions of the present CIA effort probably
should be terminated, particularly the infiltration of black
resistance teams, since without some phased plan for action
these teams are being jeopardized to little purpose.

"c. Commit U.S. to help Cubans overthrow the Castro-Com-
munist regime, with a step-by-step phasing to ensure success,
including the use of U.S. military force if required at the end. :"

This is, in effect, the original operational proposal presented to
the Special Group (Augmented) and disapproved in favor of Phase
Ion 16 March 1962. If this course of action is adopted, and if we
are permitted thereunder in the immediate future to mount an all-.
out maximum operational effort to establish and support resistance

N ONTINU. TROL

DocId:32977065 Page 7
HW 54214

DoclId: 32977065

 

19 maritime operations have aborted or failed due to one or
more of the factors listed immediately above. Had we been
permitted to mount a more intensive and aggressive effort,
the original infiltration schedule probably would have been
met, possibly exceeded. You will recall that it was pointed
out to the Special Group in March 1962 that the full imple-
mentation of the operational plan for infiltration would
require use of Defense facilities which were not subsequently,
as a matter of policy, forthcoming. The speed with which
and the extent to which we can in the future infiltrate black
teams for resistance purposes into Cuba will of course depend
upon policy approvals by higher authority and the amount of
support we can count on thereunder. Aithough we have had
losses in connection with the teams infiltrated, Phase I has
demonstrated that we can successfully infiltrate such teams

 

 

 

 

‘and that, given proper policy approval and sufficient support,

we can greatly increase the resistance cadres and activities
inside Cuba.

(4) With regard to Point c(4) above, our activities,
we believe, have had a substantial effect in supporting a
spirit of resistance inside Cuba. This effect has not of :
course been as great as it would have been had we been
able to mount a maximum covert action, paramilitary and
psychological warfare operation. We have not been success-
ful in developing an effective revolutionary movement or

leadership around which a Cuban revolt inside Cuba could
-be rallied. at the present time.

(5) With regard to Point c(5) above, we have developed
a number of promising leads to the top Cuban leadership, but
no immediate current possibility of splitting it. :

OPERATIONAL ESTIMATE:

a. The operational estimate of conditions and possibilities inside
Cuba is well reflected in the forthcoming NIE 85-2-62.. In summation,
based on the intelligence collected and our operational experience
during Phase I, it is our conclusion that there is a sufficiently sub-
stantial resistance potential inside Cuba which, given a maximum
operational effort, could be organized and incited into open revolt

NOF ONTINUE ROL

Page 5
HW 54214

 

provided the Cubans could be assured that if they themselves
revolted their revolt would be supported by U.S. intervention
and that the U.S. would not permit it to be crushed by Castro's
military and police counteraction, It is our opinion that there
is an excellent chance such a revolt could be incited by late
1963 if we embark on a maximum operational program now.
Possible dissatisfaction with the Cuban regime inside Cuba has
materially increased over the past several months and is likely
to continue to increase for some time. It is not likely to result
in spontaneous revolt or in major widespread resistance
without organized assistance and support from the U.S. The
Military/Security/Police apparatus of the Castro regime is
effective and its effectiveness can be expected to increase.

It is and will remain, in our opinion, for the foreseeable future,
capable of containing and eventually destroying the bulk of any
unorganized, unsupported resistance or revolt which may arise
in Cuba. If a revolt in Cuba is organized and incited, it will

be destroyed at best within a matter of a few days if it is not
supported by substantial military force.

 

 

 

b. With regard to the influence of Castro and Cuba else -
where in the Western Hemisphere, the appeal of Castroism as
such has dimmed appreciably in other Latin American states
during the past several months, although there are many indica-
tions that Castro's Cuba is still active in subversive activities

. elsewhere in the Hemisphere, including firm evidence that Cuba

provided $10, 000 to the 13th of November Guatemalan revolutionary
group in Mexico City. It cannot be overstressed, however, that
the Cuban regime has proven that violent social revolution and

a break with the U.S. is possible in Latin America and will be
supported by the Soviet Bloc without the USSR necessarily insist-
ing on complete traditional communist control. The appeal of
the Cuban example will increase in other Latin American states
if reform lags and if hopes and promises remain unfulfilled.
Cuba also represents and will continue to represent a danger
because its subversive activities might at any time provide

the spark that would set off explosions in unsettled countries,

for example, Venezuela and Guatemala. In addition, Cuba
represents of course the dangerous example of a communist
regime within the Western Hemisphere in defiance of the United
States and breaching hemispheric solidarity.

NO < CONTINUE ROL

DocId:32977065 Page 6
.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
. WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

24 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadier General E. G. Lansdale

SUBJECT: Operation MONGOOSE - End of Phase I
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum dated ll July 1962, ‘Subject
as Above

1. Pursuant to reference memorandum and in accordance with
our previous discussions, set out below are comments for inclusion
in your overall report to the Special Group (Augmented) at the con-
clusion of the first phase of Operation Mongoose, 31 July 1962. In
preparing these comments it was found necessary to defer finalizing
them until we had an opportunity to review and check them against
the 23 July 1962 draft of NIE 85-2-62, a copy of which is available to
you.

2. BACKGROUND, PURPOSE, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS -Phase I:

a. Onl6 March 1962, the Special Group (Augmented)
approved Phase I of Operation Mongoose authorizing and
directing that between that date and 31 July 1962, CLA mount
a concentrated operational program to collect intelligence
concerning Cuba and to develop, insofar as possible, clandes-
tine resistance cadres inside Cuba. This plan authorized
intelligence - political, economic, and covert actions, short
of those reasonably calculated to inspire revolt within the
target area or otherwise require U.S. armed intervention.

The plan required that actions taken during Phase I should be
consistent with overt policies of isolating Castro in the Western
Hemisphere and be undertaken in such a way as to permit U.S.
disengagement with minimum losses of assets and prestige.
Major operations going beyond the collection of intelligence .
have required approval in advance by the Special Group
(Augmented).

b. Phase I of Operation Mongoose did not provide for
a maximum operational program against Cuba and did not
authorize any extensive use of U.S. military personnel,

   

EXCLUDED FROM Gps

HW 54214 DocId:32977065 Page 2
AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

Date 06/25/98
Page : l

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John
. EKennedy
Nnsc Assassination Records

145-10001-10170 ollection Act of 1992

AGENCY INFORMATION

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
124 ase#: NW 54214 Date:
HO-10-2017

 

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

MEMORANDUM

07/24/62

7

OPERATION MONGOOSE--END OF PHASE ONE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
02/10/98

AW 54214 DocId:32977065 Page 1
id

HW 54214

TO RET

CONTINUE TROL

bases, and facilities. No decision was made to undertake a
phased operation to provoke a revolt with the commitment
that such revolt would be supported by U.S. military forces.

c. Within the policy limitations of Phase I, it was hoped

that the following would be accomplished:

DoclId: 32977065

(1) The development of an effective functioning
operational unit for the conduct of intelligence, psycho-
logical warfare and covert actions against Cuba.

(2) The development in depth of hard intelligence
coverage of Cuba.

(3) The establishment of limited resistance cadres
inside Cuba and an adequate assessment of the resistance
potential, as well as operational conditions affecting the
possibilities of organizing and inciting a major revolt.

(4) Keep alive, insofar as possible, the spirit of
resistance inside Cuba and exploit any possibilities that
appeared for the development of future Cuban leadership
and revolutionary doctrine.

(5) Determine the possibilities of and, if possible,
take action toward splitting the top Cuban leadership.

-d. During Phase I the following has been accomplished:

(1) An effective operational unit for the conduct of
multi-purpose operations against Cuba has been established
_and is functioning well. We of 23 July, 477 CIA staff per-
sonnel are devoting full time to this effort. In addition, a
very large number of additional personnel are devoting
part-time efforts to Operation Mongoose. :

(2) Point c(2) above has been accomplished. Hard
intelligence coverage of Cuba at the present time exists
in depth and has increased substantially since the inception
of Phase I. Through this coverage we now have an excellent
understanding of military, political, economic and resistance
conditions and activities inside Cuba as reflected only by

NOF TINUE ROL

Page 3
 

   

 

CONTINUED OL

numerous individual intelligence disseminations, but
by the intelligence reflected in summation in the forth -
coming NIE €5-2-62. The plan for Phase I of Operation. of —
Mongoose contemplated that. wuld have established ¢ it etl

    
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  

 

inside Cuba by 31 July 1962, trolled reporting lp ‘c J 8 7
intelligence agents, including . In fact, ai
we have at the oe t time inside Cuba Al
| a . Cuban age ird country controll oe
pata a total o con 6 inside the target area. oll
ee (o- YH é third country controlled agents, reporting sub- “Al
oe ad tantially on Guba, are located outside Cuba. A sub-
40% &) stantial number of these will in the near future b at |
we dispatched on missions inside Guba. In additio \ me
independent support agents are producing intermi

intelligence reports with some frequency concerning .
Cuba. The above figures do not include the extensive
reporting from the Opa-Locka Intelligence Center,
which is now totaling approximately 800 reports a month.

(3) With regard to Point-c(3), we have been less
successful. The original maximal planning under Phase
I contemplated that we would have infiltrated inte Guba
by 31 July 1962 at least 23 illegal intelligence reporting
and resistance cadre teams. By the conclusion of this
phase, we will have actually infiltrated no more than
eleven such teams. In addition, four caching operations
and one 1, 500 pound re -supply operation will have been
‘completed. During August 1962, barring presently —
unforeseen operational failures or aborts, five more.
teams should have been infiltrated into Cuba, as well
as two additional cache operations and one 3,000 pound
re«supply operation. Our failure to meet the original.
achedule of team infiltrations primarily was due to two
facters: (a) lack of. policy, approval by higher authority
“to make any extensive utilization of Department of =
Defense personnel and support, and (b) a series of
operational failures and aborts due to weather, enemy
- action, failure of inside agents to keep rendezvous and,
in a few instances, missions aborted by the Cuban agents.
involved for various reasons; including their dissatisfaction —
with U.S. lack of aggressiveness againat Cuba. Since
1 April 1962, in addition to the operations involved above,

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
  
  

ONTINE FON TROL

 

 
