 

ooo]

 

 

 

 

 

Cid INTERNAL USE ONLY

py

oo a .
(3%

 

Journal - @f{fice of Legislative Counsel
Thursday - 14 July 1977 é

7. (Secret - PG) LIAISON Michael J. Hers . 1
Director, Subcommittee on International Organizations, House International
Relations Cornmittee, Beverley Lumpkin and William Garvelinkg of the
Subcommittee staff, visited C&RS Conference Room this date in order to
review files. While they were here, Miss Lumpkin and Mr, Garvelink
signed Nondisclosure Agreements and the matter of our dealings with NSA
was discussed with Mr, Hershman, (See Memorandum for the Record, )

8. (Unclassified — RJK) LIAISON Called Clare Buchanan, Senate’
Foreign Relations Committee staff, and informed her that DOD could update ~
the background investigations of Seth Tillman and John Ritch, of the Comrnittee .
staff,if the Chairrnan sends a letter making sucha request to DOD. She
indicated that she,would move on this immediately, > ‘

9. (Internal Use Only ~ DTC) LIAISON I met briefly with Representative

Louis Stokes (D. » Ohio), Chairman, Mouse Sclect-Gommittee on Assassinations,
and then Mr. G, Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director of the
Comrnittee, on Security matters anda Nondisclosure Agreement. (See
Memorandum for the Record.) In addition, Chairman Stokes gave mea ~
letter which was addressed to the DCI and concerned the termination of

clearance status of two House Select Committee on Assassinations staffers.

10. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Returned a telephone call from
the office of the Resident Commissioner Baltasar Corrada (D., Peurto Rico).
The Commissioner's press secretary, Bernardo Guerra, indicated that he
was gathering general information on many agencies of the Executive Branch
and wished to visit the CIA with other members of the staff to "talk about the
CIA." I responded that 1 thought the best way to start was to send him a general
kit of public information on the Agency, which hopefully would satisfy his
informational needs. A kit was provided by A/DCI/PA and forwarded to
the. Office of the Resident Commissioner, Puerto Rico, Attention: Bernardo
Guerra, Room 1319 Longworth House Office Building. : :

nosy
(), 2 ye. args

S oSmen L. CARY

Legislative Counsel

cc:

o/ppcr 3 DDI PDA DDSKT SA/DO/O NIO ©
Mr. Grinwid) Mr. Lapham IC Staff [BEAT .

Ex. Sec. Mr. Hetu Comptroller

 

  
