14-00000

 

 

18,

19,

list monopolies.

‘That the Latin American struggle strengthens its ties

of solidarity with the peoples of Asia and Africa and
those of the socialist countries, the workers of the cap-
italist nations, and especially with the black popula-
tion of the United States which suffers class exploita-
tion, poverty, unemployment, racial discrimination and
the denial of their most elementary human rights, and
which constitutes an important force with in the revolu-
tionary struggle...

That the heroic struggle waged by the people of Viet

_ Nam gives valuable aid to all revolutionary peoples who

20.

are fighting imperialism, and constitutes an inspiring

example to peoples of Latin America.
That we have approved the Statutes and created the Per-

manent Comaittee, in Havana, of the Organization of

‘Latin American Solidarity, which constitutes the genuine

representation of the Latin American peoples.

:We, the revolutionaries of our America, the America south of

the Rio Grande, Successors of the men who gave us our first

independence, armed with an undaunted will to fight, and

with revolutionary and scientific guidance, and with nothing

to lose but the chains which oppress us assert: That our

struggle constitutes a decisive contribution to the historic

struggle of humanity to liberate itself from slavery and. ex-

ploitation.
14-00000 _

 

 

 

 

' GONZALEZ, Pearl - Press. - 201-827156

GEYER, Georgie Ann

GOODE, Eileen (may be Arlene GOULD) - LIFE INTERNATIONAL -
_ XX
GOODSELL, James Nelson - MONITOR - US PPT # £0022180 -
traveled from Mexico City to Havana on.
21 July 1967 - XX
GOSHKO, John Myron - WASHINGTON POST - XX
GOULD, Arlene - US PPT # 217641 ~ traveled from Mexico
, City to Havana on 24 July 1967 - XX
GREENE, Philip - US PPT # E500759 - traveled from Mexico
. City to Havana on 18 July 1967 - XX
GRISMAN, Jean Abelen Martin - US PPT # G1331819 -. tra-
veled from Mexico City to Havana on 18
July 1967 -. XX ;
HANSEN, Joseph - ‘THE MILITANT - US PPT # 11511226 - tra
veled from Mexico City to Havana on

24 July 1967.

HARRIS, Ruth - VIET REPORT - XX
“HENTOFF, Nat - Press-freelance - 201-819958

HOBSON, James - Director, Negro United Front Action ~ XK

“HOWARD, Charles - Press ~ UN correspondent
-IBEFREY, Gordon - Progressive Labor Party ~ XX

JUNNILLA, Johan
JUNNILLA, Sibikee

KLEIN, Elaine - US PPT # 2340375 - traveled fron Mexico

 
14-00000 ,

cooperation with the armed revolutionary movement is an
; undeferable international duty of every anti-imperia-
list organization of our continent. _

14, The Cuban revolution, as a symbol of triumph of the
armed revolutionary movement, constitutes the vanguard:
of the Latin American anti-imperialist movement. The

. peoples that develop the armed struggle, as they ad-

vance along this road put themselves in the vanguard.

 

1S. That the people who have been directly subjected by
colonialism of the European countries, in order to achieve
their liberation, must have an immediate and basic
objective: that of struggling for independence, and
‘uniting with the general struggle of the continent
as the only means of being absorbed into U.S. neo- ;
colonialism. .
16. That the Second Declaration of Havana that expressed the
beautiful. and glorious revolutionary: tradition of the .

past 160. years of American history, constitutes the pre- bee SS

 

gram of the Latin American Revolution which has been a
‘confirmed, deepened, enriched, and made more radical by

the peoples of this continent during the last five years.) -

 

17. That the peoples of Latin America have no differences

with any other peoples in the world and extend their .
hand of friendship also to the peoples of the United
States, whom they exhort to undertake the struggle a-

gainst the repressive policy carried out by imperia-

~~
14-00000

and not to retard the development of this fundamental
‘course, which is armed struggle.

7. That, for the majority of the countries of the con-
tinent, the problems of organizing, initiating, develop-
ing and crowning the armed struggle at present con-
stitutes the immediate and fundamental task éf the

7 revolutionary movement.

8. That those countries in whith this task has not yet
been undertaken nevertheiess will regard it as an in-

" evitable sequence in the development. of revolutionary
struggle in their countries.

‘9, That the historic responsibility of furthering re-

_ volution in each one of these countries belongs to the
. people and to their revolutionary vanguards in each
country. -
, 10; That the guerrilla is the nucleus. of the liberation armies, .

and guerrilla warfare constitutes the most effective .

 

. “method of initiating and developing the revolutionary
"struggle in most of our countries. :
‘LL. That the leadership of the revolution demands, as as. or- mo

ganizational principle, the existance of a unified
. politico-military command as 2a guarantee of success.
12. That the most effective solidarity that the revolutionary
. movements may practice among themselves, is the further-_
ing and the culmination of their own struggle in their .

: respective countries,

13, That the solidarity with Cuba and the collaboration and

*
14-00000

 

can Republic, Ecuador, Finland, Germany, Great Britain,

Japan, Mexico, National Liberation Front of South Vietnam,
North Korea, North Vietnam, Panama, Peru, Sweden, Uruguay,
and the United States.

The following is the proclamation that was issued

at the Conference.

 
14-00000

Proclamation of the General Declaration of the first Con-_

ference of the Organization of Latin American Solidarity.

August 10, 1967. . .

1. That making the Revolution constitutes a right and a
duty of the peoples of Latin America.

2. That the Revolution in Latin America has its deepest

. . historical roots in the liberation movement against

European colonialism of the 19th century. and against

 

imperialism of this century. The epic of the peoples

 

of America and the great class battles that our peoples
have carried out against imperialism in earlier decades
constitute the source of historical inspiration of the
Latin American revolutionary movement, ”

3. That the essential content of the revolution in Latin

America is to be found in its confrontation with in-

 

perialism and the bourgeois and landowner oligarchies,

Consequently, the character of the revolution is the.

 

struggle for national independence, emancipation from
the oligarchies, and the socialist road for its complete
economic and social development. ; ,
4. That the principles of Marxism-Leninism guide the re-
volutionary movement of Latin America.
5. That armed revolutionary struggle constitutes the fundi-
mental course of revolution in Latin America. .

6. That all other forms of struggle must serve to advance
 

 

 

 

os

 

“APPROVED FOR RELEASE1993. 0 ex-2152_
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM © © September .1968

SUBJECT: LATIN AMERICA SOLIDARITY ORGANIZATION
BORGANIZATION OF LATIN AMERICAN SOLIDARITY —

1. The Latin American Solidarity Organization (LASQ)
was an off-shoot of the first Tri-Continental Conference which
was held in January 1966 in Havana, Cuba under the auspices
of ‘the Cairo based Afro-Asian Peoples' Solidarity Organiza-
tion. The main outcome of the conference was a series
of militant resolutions that brought protests from most of
the Latin American republics except Mexico. The 27 Latin
American delegates to that conference then formed the LASO.

From 7-11 August 1967, the organization held its

. first conference in Havana, Cuba. The stated aim of this

_ conference was "...to unite, coordinate, and step up the

struggle against the United States imperialism on the part
of all the exploited peoples of Latin America.” The slogan —

of the conference was "the duty of every revolutionary is

ito make revolution." This slogan was the center of the Cuban -

propaganda. The propaganda was pointed up by the election

of Ernesto ‘Che! GUEVARA as honorary chairman "in absentia".

The Cuban insistance on the supremacy of "armed struggle” as

the only valid course to achieve "national liberation" |

_ helped shatter the early ostensible unity between pra-Castro

and pro-Soviet Communist Party delegates to the conference.

 

 
 

104-10063-10390

    
   
   
   
 

 

  

QO NORD SHaT

EX-2152

 

  

6 September 1968

   

number, ond . ; °
- COMMENTS (Number each comment to show ftom whom
fo whom. Drow a line across column after cech comment.)

 

RECEIVED | FORWARDED | ©

Prepared by:

 

 

 

~ >. CT STAFF a4
INTERNAL USE GNLY = |

 

 

 

 

 

Subject's file

CI Task Group Biograph
Summaries :
Orig. for Final Report
Typing :

EX Chrono

FATERNAL ——
use ony CJ UNELAS
14-00000 |

Also adding to the split was the Cuban resolution condemning
by implication the Soviet trade and aid policy toward Latin
America. The conference was expected to end with ringing de-
clarations in favor of guerrilla warfare not only in Latin
America but also in the Negro ghettoes of the United States
and anywhere else that seemed appropriate.. It was the in-
tention of the militants to develop a strategy, partly in-
spired by the war in Vietnam, which aimed at drawling the
United States into as many scattered committments as possible
in support of governments harassed by guerrilla warfare, in-
cluding state and city governments in the United States it-

self. It was theorized that the real significance of the

’ conference may have been the way in which the militants were

determined to link the struggles in Latin America with those
in Vietnam and the United States. . a
The agenda of the conference included the follow-
ing points:
_1.. The revolutionary anti-imperialist struggle,
including armed insurrection in Latin America; —
2. Joint action against political and economic inter-
ventation by imperialism in Latin America, in
cluding a need for a common strategy for all>
Latin American revolutionary movements;
3. Solidarity of Latin American peoples with
. national liberation struggles; including sup-

port for the American Negro and the defense

 
14-00000

 

of the Cuban revolution against United States
aggression. +
The tone of the conference was set by Cuban Pre-
sident DORTICOS in his opening speech, he said that an at-
mosphere of "continental upheaval" was prevalent in the
United States as well as in Latin America. Due to racial >
strife in the United States her capacity to give financial

“aid to the oligarchy governments in Latin America has been

limited. The people nust take advantage of conflicts and

 

contradications in the United States to "...strike with
daring and vigor".

One of the highlights of the conference was the
presentation of a group of six alleged CIA agents who were
captured by.the.Cuban Army in July 1967, The members of
the news media who were present at the conference were
permitted to question the prisoners, The questioning was
done, for the most part, through a Cuban security officer who. -

acted as an interpreter,

 

The delegates to the conference were chosen by
‘national committees of the LASO that were formed partly to
avoid the problem of rival delegations arriving from the
same country. Some represented established communist parties, |
some extreme nationalist splinter groups, and some guerrilla
movements. Observers from many countries and organizations
were present at the conference. Delegations arrived from:

Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Columbia, Domini-

 

dg
