74-00000

 

3. It should also be remembered that Orlando Bosch
was acquitted of extortion charges in December 1966 in the Miami
District Court, and it is therefore considered unlikely that any
jury will convict Bosch of the current Arms Control violation
charges. A separate problem which may influence postponement
of the indictment is the continuing publicity generated by the New
Orleans District Attorney with his investigation of the assassination
of President Kennedy and his continuing references to the involvement
of Cubans both in*‘New Orleans and Miami in the conspiracy.

HN K, GREANE
Assystant General Counsel
OGC:IKG:bt

Distribution; f
Bosch Subject FileY ~ SKE

Original -

ce: WH/Cuba
WH/Haiti

1 - Masferrer Subject File
1 - Garrison Subject File
1 - JKG Signer

1 - Chrono
 

 

ne

041010410209] - °

 

 

‘
5
on

OGC 67-1077

 

31 May 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Orlando Avila y Bosch
1. Mr, of the WH Haiti Desk called on

 

 

 

25 May 1967 and stated that they had been advised by an asset

in New York that Rene Juares Leon had been arrested by the

FBI in New York City on that date. A bench warrant for the

arrest of Leon had been issued by the District Court for the
Southern District of Florida since he failed to appear for his
arraignment in March 1967, He was indicted along with

Rolando Masferrer for plotting an invasion of Haiti, Mr.'Gremillion|

had indicated Leon might be considered political asset in the post
Duvallier era in Haiti, Mr. [lacked my opinion as to

whether or not this possible future use of Leon might have an
effect on the charges being dropped against him, I told

Mr, ‘that it seemed highly unlikely that the Judge or
the United States Attorney would consider dropping the charges
since Leon had failed to appear before the court when so ordered,

 

2. I called Mr, Morris, Internal Security Division,
Department of Justice, the attorney handling both the Masferrer
and Bosch prosecutions, and told him that Leon had been arrested,
It was in a previous conversation with Mr. Morris that he told
me that the United States Attorney expected to obtain the indictment
against Bosch on 31 May 1967. Mr. Morris said that both the
United States Attorney and the Department of Justice were
considering postponing the date of bringing the indictment against
Bosch because of the problems which had developed in Miami after
a Cuban refugee named Rivero had been arrested. The information
available indicates that Orlando Bosch has been the leader of the
protest demonstrations against Rivero's arrest. It would therefore
seem prudent to delay the indictment rather than precipitate
greater demonstrations in the Cuban community of Miami.

 
