74-0000

 

OGC 77-0427
19 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

 

FROM: Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel
SUBJECT: -- Involvement as Witness in
Fa, atric. émming Case

 

1. In the late afternoon on 7 January 1977, “|
informed the undersigned that he was being asked to
conference on 10 January in Miami, Florida, and expected to be a witness
Sovernment in the case against Gerald Patrick Hemming. Mr.
of Ft that he had been under cover while employed by the Agency
to 1974. He ansferred to DEA where he became involved
with Mr. Hemming. Me fees now back with the Agency and expected
to be put under cover Véry Shortly. Both for cover considerations and
because he felt the Hemming case had a great deal of "flap" potential,

rivaling the Werbell case, he desired OGC to intercede for him to keep him
from having to testify.

2. Mr. hoted that Hemming was a "walk-in", who was referred
to his boss at , Mr. Conein, by Mr. Werbell and that Conein, in turn,
had sent Hemming to him to be interviewed. Subsequently, Mr. Hemming
had "set up" Mr. Conein by first telling him that a brother wished to work
with DEA and requesting permission to give Mr. Conein a resume, and later
by publicly meeting Conein and handing him a manila envelope ostensibly
containing the promised resume. In fact, the envelope contained a report
with phony cryptonyms representing Hemming as an agent of Conein's.
Hemming's report detailed a variety of alleged official activities and,
mentioned his prior contacts with Conein and wit
that Hemming would undoubtedly try to beat the
against him in Miami by claiming to be a DEA or CIA agent?
testimony that he was a DEA employee when he met him but was a
employee both before and after would help cloud the issue. In addition,
such exposure could affec current usefulness to the Agency.

 

  
 
 
 

 

ndicated
ndin

 
  
 

ln)

‘oa-t0to7-t00t7] *

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only OGC 77-0428
« Do Not Reproduce 19 January 1977

_ MEMORANDUM FOR: C/SE/SS

 

 

 

FROM: Edmund Cohen
: Assistant General Counsel
SUBJECT: Reimbursement of Travel Expenses off
Witness on Behalf of U.S. Governmen
REFERENCES: A. Memo for Record, Same_Subj. 9
B. Memo for C/SE Div. fm Subj:
. Appearance as Witness on Behalf of U.S.
Government

 

1. In accordance with instructions contained in reference A |
aveled to Miami for a pre-trial conference in the case of U.S. v.
7 et al., No. 76-371-CR-CA (S.D.Fla.) Reference B seeks reimburse~
ment for this trip. ; - : :

2. The undersigned spoke with Mr. Jim Williams, Budget Section,

  
 
 
 
 
 

Drug orcement Administration (28-4266), about obtaining reimbursement
for Mr? ___\ptravel expenses. Mr. Williams was informed that insofar
a Stimony related to his official duties as a DEA employee, DEA

sorb the costs. Mr. Williams agreed and indicated that Mr.
ould call him to arrange reimbursement.

2 .. | A
, Edmund Cohen
OGC: EC: bm (21 January 1977)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - TRAVEL \-
1 - EC Signer
1 - Chrono
74-00000

\pd

03

« ®@ E ©

3. Thg undersigned checked with Mr. Robert Blandford, CCS, and
learned tha’ cover had been removed when he left the Agency, thus
his previou' was a,matter of public record. In addition, he was not
now under cover. Mr /CCS, opined that no cover problem
'existed which would impede testimony.

4. The undersigned then spoke with Ms. Karen Atkinson, Assistant
U.S. Attorney in Miami (305) 350-5461, to inform her of Mv’. urrent
sta Atkinson appreciated the potential problems, buf édriéliided that
ie fess be a necessary witness for the trial which was scheduled
to 1 January. The question of travel expenses was also broached.
Ms. Atkinson stated that she did not have an expense fund to pay the travel
expenses of Government witnesses and that the usual practice was for the
employer Agency to pay the expenses of an employee testifying on behalf of
the Government about his official actions. The instant case was somewhat
unusual because CIA would be paying for Me, in effect, testify
about his DEA experiences, but she opined th! S a matter best
resolved in Washington.

4 In view of the limited time available, the undersigned informed Mr.
ranch chief of the above and suggested that travel
a. for Mr ip to Miami.

6. On ll January, following his return from Miami, “ef |
informed the undersigned that Hemming's motion that his trial be severe
from that of his various co-conspirators had been granted and, therefore,
his testimony had not been required, Ms. Atkinson had informed him that

;-should_Hemming raise as a defense the allegation that he was a DEA agent,
would be called as a rebuttal witness. Ms. Atkinson also noted
that Hemming was alleging that DEA was representing him at the behest

of CIA because in the past he had "crossed" CIA.

wee ~ = \F

Edmund Cohen

 

 

 

ec: Mr. Robert Morris, EAB
Mr. Robert Blandford, CCS
OGC:EC:bm (21 January 1977)
Distribution:
Original - TRAVEL .-~
1 - EC Signer
1 - Chrono
74-00000

CONTROL NO.

og ¢
- REQUEST FOR FE. assistance . 77-0172

 

 

DATE OF REQUEST

ilalye

TELEPHONE ROOM NG. AND BUILDING
a

  

 

 

packed + dus hidaas kX atk DEA

 

 

 

REQUESTER’S DEADLINE DATE a
REQUEST INFORMATION 1S SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
ASSIGN TO: | - | GENERAL Law OPS. AND MT. FOUA/PRIVACY ACT | PROCUREMENT & CONTRACTS

 

 

[Comments /REmarks

LAWYER ASSIGNED a REQUEST TAKEN BY
a .

yp) remr gee
