[toa t01e2-10211

 

7 CHA Ni in al = ch
INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL

  

_ Journal - Officg-of Legislative Counsel
Friday - 19 nol. nber 1976

 

Te) 77-oecoe7f/o }

12. (Unclassified - DFM) BRIFING Mike Madigan, Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff,. called to request a second briefing by
George Kalaris, C/CI Staff, on the Agency's counter-intelligence mission.
Kalaris wasn't able to finish his briefing on 3 November because of numero: .
staff questions and Bill Miller, Staff Director, said at that time he would li.
to schedule another briefing. After checking with Kalaris, the briefing was
set up for.23 November at 9:30. - ,

13. (Confidential.- LIM) LIAISON In response to his previous
_request, made arrangements with Alan Romberg, NSC staff, toread —
the transcript of the briefing before the Subcommittee on Arms Control,
International Organizations and Security Agreements, Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. a : :

14, (Unclassified - LLM) FAA ALERT Reached Ralph,Preston,
House Appropriations Committee staff, at home and alerted him to the
fact there has been-another Presidential finding.

15. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Larry Callahan, Department c
Justice, called to determine our interest in collaborating with ther on
drawing up the investigations standards for security standards of the
House Select Committee on Assassinations. 1 said I thought we would want
to apply the same standaxd is that were tollowed in the case of the Senate
committees and Robert Gambino, D/Security, has been alerted to follow
‘through on this with Justice. . ;

: Little progress has been made on the security clearances and Calle
is quite certain that at least one and-possibly two staffers known to him we
not meet suitable standards of the Department of Justice. a :

Regarding the "Hoover memo," a.decision is now pending in Justic
on showing it to Chairman Thomas N. Downing (D., Va.) and Representat: |
Samuel L. Devine (R., Ohio) on a "no nptes fo be taken" basis, “Dave Gri af

SA/DCI, was advised. | /

I}

 

 

 

- .,
; GEORGE L. CARY
i Legislative Counsel

ce: O/DCL O/DDCI Ex. Sec. DDI DDA DDS&T Mr, Lapham
Mr. Parmenter Mr. Falkiewicz SA/DO/O IC Staff Comptroller

a/b

een

 

 
