 

4

 

 

NO. 50-10

 

_
*

DOI 50-10

  

OPERATIONS.GENERAL
4 September 1973 -

z a
(e) Officials or employees of wf

(d) Officials,” employees; af” 4

DDO INSTRUCTION\

 

 

 

 

~~

 

 

 

 

(e) Employees of J@ ?
(2) Operational Use equires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see

 

Paragraph 6): - APLOVIAE ORK SALADBO y ., os ee

 

(a) Employees of jother U.S, Govern: 8}
(b) DDO asents or assets nent Anes

(c)

 

 

 

 

 

- (4) Operational: Use Requires Ap, Approval by Chief of Area Dibision (see” =

7 (fetes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controlled by tke highest | ‘type of
in his particular’ case.

 

    

 

 
14-00000

  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  

‘eae!

DOI 50-10

   

OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973

DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROWTG

 

a. Members ond) [ ; : ¢ 4 oO
(1) It is Agency policy that members andf [will not: be

_ used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency 7) )

or by organizations under its jurisdiction, (The term “members of| oo,

will he understand to mean | anyone employed by Or associa ed

with ad
(2) It is Agency ‘policy that ‘former frembers_ of Coie be em-
ployed or used by the Agency or by organizatioas WHdér its jurisdiction .
only in accordance with the following: . ol F
{a} Except as stated in (b) below, a forme “rember of
.. .tmay be employed or. used operationally an
Agency only if a_period. of five full” year ;
separation from! GF
: (b) An Agency-controtéd organ

 

 

 

 

 

“ “.
cae RARER oe 5 RRL Ma RRM coe eat es SHE ESAS PERE SPO RETO NRO SHC SE

  

Britis

: ‘elapsed. since his.

     
 
 

1 anay chive a former, member of.

   

 
 
 

.(e)’ The ‘employment. :
the provisions of subparagraph (a) 0 or (b) above must have the we

. specific prior approval ‘Of the Deputy Director for Op rations. ;
(3) Formerf }service included duty over-
. seas ere subject to the rules governing employment or use of former .
Go {members of iC subparasreply se above), who .
did not serve at any time fs) memb and whos i ai )
service did not include due —__ overseas may be employed or —
used operationally by DDO @ lements“provided the specific prior ap-
proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained. . .
(4) A former [member: or whose employment or use 2... | a nL

is permitted by subparagraph (2) or above may not be assimed - Mn
. to or used in a country for Which he ‘had beeaf——Jor to to which - ad

he had been: assigned while with

   

 

 

apse wren,

 

 

 
   

  
 
  

 

 

ie, Collection. Division

, nokwit ding the! Fact th
a, eet ; :

The specifi c’prior-approval of the # Depa
must be obtained.’ ‘

48) Information may be. received by the. Dome

   

  
  
     
     

COOLI43

 
DOI 50-10 ‘ SS

   

OPERATIONS-CENERAL _ *.

DDO INSTRUCTIO:
‘ 4 September 1973

NO. 50-10

 

3. DEFINITIONS

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below. will apply.
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term: “operational use” .
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct .
manner consistent with clarity. It has not.been ‘feasible, However, to. cover in ros
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances .
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of “operational use” which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating comporents will be referred to. the -
“ Deputy Director for Operations for decision. oe

a. Operational Use :
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train: :
ing of any individual or. group for DDO. purposes on either a witting or -..
unwitting basis by or on the‘behalf-of an element of the Operations Direc- ;
torate, Utilization’ is made of an individual or’ group whenever that in--. -
dividual of group, responding to the direction or\golicitation’ of a DDO
element, provides information, performs service’ ides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary, for ‘the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either ifectly. or indirectly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate

b, DDO Element : :
Ay person or groufi<who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled
ther directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under

tis definition are employees or. members of Agency Proprietary mech-

 

 

 

   

  
  

 

 
 

 

N

c. Operational Contact . :
Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO
operations.

 

4, RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types
and cover twenty five separate categories a8 outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 5 through 8 of this instruction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibiied {see paragraph 3):
(2) Members and CF

(»] fp

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

so)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘NO, 50-10

“ Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970.

 

DOI 50-16

     

DDO INSTRUCTION \Ss)
4 September 1973

. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS :

1. GENERAL

a. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human

agents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen-
eral, it it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the
agents’ abilities, target access, and séeur security, and with few restrictions as
to their origins, professions or status’ as members of particular groups. The
basic rule is that. any consenting adult may be used by. the Operations

Directorate. There- are, however, certain ‘sensitive categories of individuals

 

- ‘or groups whose opérational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited “*

- Or, in some. way: restricted for reasons ‘not necessarily. ‘related. to Security
considerations. Bn . bee

b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by .U.S. Governttignt 2 , authority to
restrict or avoid the operational use of a particular Ir ategory, of in-
dividuals.

(2) The Agency has entered into a spe
organization, government, Sr
category of individuals.

(3) The Director or the Dep

pie

  
      
 

E strictive agreement with an.
orpotation, or _ official | responsible for a

 

  
   
 

“Director for Operations has imposed

restrictions on the operational usé: of a,certain category of individuals .

“due to the extreme risk or sensi

 

ity OF “such exploitation.

2. PURPOSE
The purpose of this instruction is to set forth the prohibitions 2 ‘and policy

restrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-""

 
 
 
 

tain to the operational OuS cate sof s, together wi

the special approva i Where k
" propsiate, reference bi ation which’ prov
more: detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The

 
    
   

 

in“eases.

   

made to ‘another public

 

special approval procedures set forth in this instruction do“not supersede or

contained in DOL

   

alter in any way the requirements for covert
and DOLF 10-5. :

PERATIONS-GENERAL —

   

  
 
   

 

LE INE RA NANER ESRD OEE SHR UDEAUNIV TUL PERLE EI SOORTT AE AGMA, TRAN NN CARS AR YT

  
   

OTT PONY WHEAT OE RTI RHEE 2D

 

 
 

 

yer

CSI NO, 10-5

 

SECURITY
9 September 1963

 

2

CLANDESTINE SERVICES (Q\G Ver
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 \t 3

  

  

Bans
f, Unless otherwise designated, by the Office of Security, investigative data -
in either Operational Approval or Covert Security Approval cases involving
aliens may be shown to proper offices of the division and may, if deemed
necessary by the division, be forwarded to the field. The dispatch or cable
in such cases will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff and
the Office of Security. No investigative data will be transmitted or dis-
closed to other than Agency staff officials without the specific prior aps.
proval of the Office of Security. The need-to-know principle will be applied
strictly in such cases, No investigative data regarding United States cit-
ce izens will be transmitted tothe field without the specific prior approval of
: vee the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Director of Security and subsequent
- oN '. to such approval without coordination with the Office of Security on the dis-
patch or cable involved. :

on

. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED STATES
OFFICIALS

Requests for Covert Security Approvals for sbacean att 4. 8 officials, wheth-
_, er such officials are in the United States or abroad) Abe smitted directly
“to the Office of Security. Each request HANEY Specifies icated as are-
quest for a Covert Security; ASA? . Liaison; ‘The request shall be accom-
” panfed by all available biognaphic {nfdrimation, to include. wherever possible in
cases of civilian employees of United States Government agencies the name,  —~
date and place of birth, the employing agency, and the position and assignment |
of the persén involved, In casés inivolving-militafy personnel -the minimum bio-~
graphic information required shall, consist of the name, date and place of birth, .
. rank and serial number, and the parent service. In each case the details of the...
Uaison with the individual must be set forth. sO :

“yrerroysy raat rteny ee Sg rs anes Reamer

  

—
€

 

 

7. SERVANTS OF AGENCY EMPLOYEES

Requests to headquarters for appropriate checks on domestic personnel em-
ployed in the homes of Agency employees overseas shall be forwarded by the
requester to the Office of Security accompanied by all available biographical
{information and the results of overseas investigations.

’ . .8. EMPLOYEES OF OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES

 

/ Proper clearance of staff or contract employees (including indigenous em~
ployees) of other U.S. Government agencies for operational use includes
notification to and approval by the employee’s parent azency in Washington.

| Requests for clearance will be forwarded to the Chief, Counter Intelligence

Z Staff, Attention: CI/ Liaison. Clearance will not be given until the approval

i

/

 

of the parent agency has teen obtained. if, after such aporoval is obtained,
it {s decided that the employee will not be used as requested, or upon termi-
nation of use, CI/ Liatson will be notified so that the amployee’s pa

i may beadvised. a
1

 

rent agency

 

3. EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN SERVICES

Safes agencies or the
«\ icials of foreig |
a

  
      

CD eraaeeeane’ SEY PET STOMP MN NR CR IREN I AETV CROTON HEINE YI PUS ANY ao ee he

   

  

set tate Nt ke ky ae . Ye hems Se

  
14-00000. .

 

    
 

te ‘ SECURITY
“jy 2” 19 September 1963

,

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO, 10-5

intelligence services with whom Agency employees maintain liaison, shall be :
forwarded by the requester to the Counter Intelligence Staff for processing to ‘ :
the Office of Security. Such requests shall be transmitted with complete :
results cf tleld traces, all available biographical information, and a state -
ment 4s to the service which the subject represents. woe . 7 |

10. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF COVERT .
SECURITY APPROVALS OR PROPRIETARY APPROVALS’ 7. : .

og

The Office of Security shall be promptly advised by th equester of the-dis-
continuance of interest in or termination of emplo: Nise ofaperson .

on whom a Covert Security Approval or Tenor tetas ¥: “Apprgval has been re-

-

quested or granted, _

4 Gk

   

ii. SPECIAL SERVICES -

 

v) Ae os

fo a, Requests for Covert N ‘ehecks- and Special ‘Inguirtes will be transmitted

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 

. J . to the Office of Security thr the Counter Intelligence Staff. Each re- oO
ee >, quest shall indicate the rea: the inquiry, shall specify the exact ac- note 4 Lae
aot tion required, and shall contd available ‘background and/or blographical - on “

SD eee information concerning the subject. a

   

: ” be the most plausible type. “of ‘cover (ie, , general “Government ‘ or cém~ *
. mercial) to bé @mployed duving the inguiry and any other information which’
would provide guidance as to the conduct of the investigation.

 

12, DOUBLE AGENTS i
The operational decision authorizing the doubling of an agent of a foreign : |
power will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff even though no '
Operational Approval or Provisional Operational Approval is required. : e) i

“ ft
wy |

13. DEFECTION AND RECRUITMENT IN PLACE

 

No attempt to defect or recruit in place (a) a member of the Communist Party ts Loos
or (b} 2 government official of a denied area country shall be made in the ae . an mochet:
United States without prior coordination with the Counter Intelligence Staff | _
" which will immediately inforrn the Director of Security and such siher United - ) :
States azencies as } may be appropriate. : .

 

Richard. Helms -
uty Director (Plans}

 

 

a i a oe . ahr fee . eo eM a
  

fa ® .
7 : ;
( C
@
CSI NO. 10-5 ai |
2 7)
CLANDESTINE SERVICES - RS) SECURITY

ed 17 July 1958
sayy 17 July

INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 We

3. INVESTIGATIONS & yr,

 

  

The function of performing all investigations in the United States in connec-
tion with approval matters, except for the check of certain Agency records,
is reserved to the Office of Security; Ves! ave erie ,

    

. : .

4, OPERATIONAL APPROVALS

ot . . 4

gee” .

a. The assembly-and analysis; ot ‘all file material (including the {les of the . 2) {
Records Integration Division) in the Clandestine Services will be accom- . . we
plished by professional personnel of the interested operating divisions i
under the technical supervision of the Counter Intelligence Staif and sub«
ject to spot check by the Counter Intelligence Staff. Certification will be : : : i
made in each case by a responsible official of the requesting division that — ; Ff i
the material furnished is complete and accurate. 2)

.b. The requesting division will assemble any biographical data; information _ .

‘of investigative or security significance (such as additional names the 7 . yy
“fo; °°... subject may have used); information relating to-character, reputation, .. Sano “ kas
oo politics, or other activities, favorable and a information or.
comments; background information: PRQ at quivalent {in du="

     
  

 

    
      
    

. plicate); and freld traces. Any. informer nished by the 0
v. » Subject concerning himself (s ne ory statement, records =
of activities or emplo ce ons, etc.) will rs
be furnished verbat: ormaish produced. cinclud nn 7 mma gE
ing that resulting fro cal interrogations, personal observation, , : AS

fleld investigations, et¢.--will a furnished to_the Counter Intelligence
Sta for necessary trait itp ‘to Ye! Ottite | of Security. It is also nec-
essary to forward PRQ Pat 5, the Counter Intelligence Staff before

‘an Operational Approval will Be issued. The Counter Intelligence Staif
will not forward PRQ Part II to the Office of Security. In rare, compli-
cated, or sensitive cases the Office of Security, in coordination with the
Counter Intelligence Staff, may wish actually to review the material of

the Records Integration Division. A brief practical statement of the scope,
nature, and geographical area of the proposed usage of the subject will

be furnished to the Office of Security along with the other data.

wo
eae

  

. The requester should also furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff for .
. transmission to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the in=
vestigation to be conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in
the investigation, such as special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the
subject. The requester should also indicate what would be the most © ..-

plausible type of cover (i. e., general Government or commercial) to be
employed in-the conduct of the investigation and whether the subject has
been briefed as to the fact of a pending investigaiion and, if-net, why this”
is not feasible. :

wv

 

 

 

a Following appropriate investigation and analysis’ ofa: “case, ‘the Office” ae
Security will forward {ts recommendation to the Counter Intelligence
Staff, with the investigative data enclosed. Upon receipt of this material

 
 

/04-10088-10070),

>, pervs.

SSTUSIOML REVEN PERG

    

|
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

 
  
 

 

  

; -

( (

THON cst No. 10-5
aeponr Cull

iy CLANDESTINE seRvige 7 SECURITY

fag INSTRUCTION NO, 10-5S'= =

  

>\ Revised 17 July 1958
1

 

(or
(4 Wide
COVERT APPRO AND RELATED MATTERS

Reference: CSI-F No. 10-5, 17 July 1958”

Rescission: CSI No, 16-5, 31 January 1955
CONTENTS
Page Page
PURPOSE ....... ar re 1 EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS .
GENERAL. cece ee ee rece e eee Lb OF FOREIGN SERVICES..... 5

INVESTIGATIONS. ...........2 NOTIFICATION OF TERMINA-
OPERATIONAL APPROVALS.... 2 TION OR DISCONTINUANCE

    

     

COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS -_ OF COVERT SECURITY APs -
AND PROPRIETARY _PROVALS OR PROPRIETARY
APPROVALS... .....200023° APPROVALS. foe. eee BO
COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS —. SPECIAL §ER vee eee Be dete
FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED - : IBLE A eee eee e ens 6 .
ao . _STATES OFFICIALS .. Voran (eer TIONUDRECRUIT- 7°
ine : : SERVANTS OF AGEN EPR:  MENT'IN PLACE : 6
Se . EMPLOYEES .... ‘\ . eR) ”
yooe .

  
  

A

 
     

yb =

1, PURPOSE \ AR
Wye :

This instruction describes etigns of headquarters components with
regard to covert approvals and related matters which are the subject of

CS1-F No. 10-5,

 

. ; 2. GENERAL

a. The Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, is delegated authority to act for the \ FS
Deputy Director (Plans) in the exercise of a!l functions which are the lat- Hi
ter’s responsibility with regard tc the granting of Operational Approvals &
and Provisional Operational Approvals. ; oe ; H

i

" b. Tha Director of Security has designated the Deputy Director for Investiga-
tlons and Operational Support, Office of Security, to represent him in dis-
charging the functions which are reserved to him with regard to the granting

.. oF Covert Security Approvals, Provisional Covert Security Approvals, .

* Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Proprietary Aj Provars.:_

   
  
 

 

c. itis the basic intent of both components that sensitive operational data
shalk remain within the custccy and knowledge of the Clandestine Services,
So 3 Cand that/sensitive security investigative data shall remain in‘the custody «.-
and knowledge of the Office of Security.“It is'recognized, however, that ~
such data may be necessary for proper performance by either component .
znd, consequently, where necessary, it shall be made available or shall be
discussed to the extent necessary.

"TA ceri deepen nr ETE TEEN AEP Sat BL Nv iS seri tn sy

 

   
   

tae

 
 

CSI NO, 10-5

 

Ly SECURITY

CLANDESTINE SERVICES Smee mee
4 _ Revised 17 July 1958

INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 .
Yee

the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or his designee, will, if the Otice of
Security does not recommend against the use of the individual, determine
whether an Operational Approval should be granted and will notify the Of-
fice of Security of its decision. However, in the event the Office of Secu-
rity recommends against the use of an individual and the Clandestine
Services still desires, on a-calculated risk basis, to use the individual,
ot the Counter Intetligence Staff “will inform the Office of Security of thia’”
fie : fact, In this event, the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Security Support
QL : so. . . Division will endeavor to arrive at an agreed pesition and, to this end, x
: the former will hold the granting of the Operational Approval in abeyance
until five day$ have elapSed after the Office of Security has been advised
of this Intention, The Counter a By At the Office of
o> Security whenever it has: a \ \\ Ws

‘Sisionas perational Approval.

 

 

Los iahiee has daraiies eae tenant aiatainiarene aimee

 

 

nopereen

’

SRT RENE PATHE RENTS Pt

A

   
 

 

XQ . (1) Granted an Operati@

  

al fad
eon t

(2) Cancelled an Opera! ve

 

    

e. In Operational Approval Ded
gative reports, name check r al to the Counter Intelligence Staff,

. In extremely sensitive cases, weyers particularly those in which the - _
sts security or good of the Agency as a whole is involved, the Office of Secu- —
. : _” “rity will not be obliged to furnish all investigative material. In such cases
lin, we ce the Office of Security will inform the Couhter Intelligence Staff that such

Sof material has been withheld and will, upon request, discuss the matter with
Ste : ' the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or other appropriate official of the —_
eo, Clandestine Services.

‘Qitige of Security will forward investi-

 

      

bee ane Nace

stances warrant. A search of the indices of the Agency, including those
. of the Office of Security, is a minimum requirement for issuance of a Pro- .
ye visional Operational Approval. .

 

g. Whenever interest in an individual under consideration for either an Oper-
ational Approval or a Provisional Operational Approval {s terminated for
any reason, the requester, in order to prevent needless processing, will

; notify the Counter Intelligence Staif promptly so that the latter may in turn
om advise the Olfice of Security.

&
3
ia
:
t
i
f{. A Provisional Operational Approval may also be requested where circum- | i
f
ij
t

-5, COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS AND PROPRIETARY APPROVALS

a, All background material will be assembled by ihe interested divisions and
will include any biogrephic data; Information of an investigative or secu-  ~
_  ¥ity significance; information-relating to character, reputation, poilitcs,
- - . “vr >‘ past employment. residences, and other activittes; favorable and unfavor,
Ta ee ' "able information; PRQ Part lor‘its equivalent {in duplicate); and field
Soe traces, This material is forwarded direcily to the Office of Security ta
its original form. (Traces need not be obiained from the Records Late-
_ gration Division; sea paragraph 5 , below.) A brief practical statement...
ot the’ scope, nature, and geograp al area of use of the subject will also”

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

  

A Z
ae ha eee
 

 

 

( (
aN - ON ; .
: : OQ” wee} CSTNO, 10-5
8) -<O\ Ye
CLANDESTINE SERVICES \S SECURITY
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 ~ Bi” - Revised 17 July 1958

48

 

nn Vane
" ""e, The Office of Security will retain the investiga ay » Covert Security

conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in the investigation,
such a3, special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the subject, The re-
quester should also indicate what would be the most plausible type-of- cover
(1. e., Government or commercial) to be employed in the conduct of the
investigation and whether the subject has been briefed as to the fact of a
pending ‘ny gattgation and, # not, why this is not feasible,

b. In Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval cages, the files of the’

J Records Integration Division will be searched by representatives of the
Office of Security. All files of the Records Integration Division, except
those portions containing specific sensitive operational data, will be made
available to the representatives of the Office of Security. In those in-
stances where a document of interest contains sensitive operational data,
designated professional} personnel within the operating division will re.
view that portion of the information and furnigh therefrom to the repre~
Sentatives of the Otficé of Security all information of the nature described
in'paragraph 5.a., above, The Office of Security will ‘conduct appropriate
investigation in each case and will issue or deny Covert Security Approvals
and Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional C vert Security Approvals and
-Provisional Proprietary Approvals, se 2

Approval cases or Proprietary Appr: wills”

(1) Make available to the AEG, Yeeitgence Staif any » ificant infor-
mation in casea wher! ANY Security Approvals, ¢ roprietary Ap-
provals are granted, aan ye

. ; WAY YS~ 7
(2) Immediately call to the aT RAW ounter Intelligence Staff any
tew evidence in Covert Securit: Approval or Proprietary Approval
cases that reflects the subject’s connection with a foreign government,
the Communist Party, or any front organization of the Communist
Party. .

d. Where the Office of Security issues or denies a Covert Security Approval
or a Proprietary Approval, formal notification will be directed to the re-
quester, In the case of disapproval one copy of the security disapproval
will be forwarded to the Counter Intelligence Staff. Where a Covert Se-
curity Approval or Proprietary Approval is denied and the Clandestine
Services still desires to use the subject on a calculated Tisk basis, the Of-

 

flee of Security will, upon request, furnisa to the Counter Inteliigence Staff a oO

summary of the investigative data, _Thereatfer, the Counter Intelligence
Staff, the requester, and the Security Supoort Division will attempt to reach
an agreed position. . .

_ e@..A Covert Security Approval or a Proprietary Approval may be preceded

ORR REE A EO tana ns nt

 

by a Provisional Covert Security Approval or a Provisional Proprietary
Approval.

 

   

1

5; (Wels we a
pes 0

ia ate ee ce er i ar : Po

™

 

4
ia)
1
i

 

 

ince mt Nee RRR RRA

 
