         

“‘SEXSTIVE SGuRcES. AND -.
METHODS INVOLVED‘

sme od

io b. The CLA Station in Canberra, on 23 Kovembor, forniabed
Do all available information oa the 1962 telephona esl?. It eppears
Pos that source on that eccaclon stated that “leon Curtain Geuntries”
' plancé te pry o handved theasand detlars for the aaseuatnation

' of Pracident Kennedy.

 

_ cs Cn 27 Novembor, tha CIA Ceaberra Gtatten oleo furntohed
| } complate detail on the anonymeas telephone call of 29 November 1961.

    

‘ad. On 29 Movember, Gia Gieseminsted this Bs
i a, ; supptled by ts Canberra Station, to thaWhite Howie, Deparioe
] of State cand Federat Buvent of Investigation, aith a copy te the
: / Secret Service. A copy of this Sissemisation ta ie esect text.
! : Se attached te hig menmorantam .

    
  

i

foi 4. The CIA Station ta Ganborsa

pou calle with | pe
| oe, Australien authorities, the calles was a cranks. In any avend. thay:
;

{

 

 

 

ot She dceomatile doocntnte ey the cation te bos ena be drones

sell has beun recelved. Available evidense would fund t5 chew that
the caller wae some tres ot creak This ceaclusion. hewevors Ce
be cenflrmed. .

 

| indleater.

 

Attachment

‘outaenk tiieataaee 8 AELMMUORIE AREANE ok on

 

  
   
     

  

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AMD
METHOOS Er IVOLVED

 

 

 
104-10012-10136

 

  

peeuca Te ~ OR"
wut AR 19367

 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
     
  
 
  
 
  
  
   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Raskin

SUBJECT: Anonymous Telephone Calla to Unites in
: , Embaeey in Canborra, Austealia, Relative to
/% Planned Agsassination of President Kennedy

 

 

wf refer again te paragraph two of your mémornidan
dated 12 February 1964, relative to dsserinations to the Seeret |
Service made by CIA, Be

 

2. Ce 24 Novernbor 1963, ca recetved from the Department
I| of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberza,
Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later dowagraded te Deck
reporting a telephone conversntion the previous day with on
ancnymous individual who had desecibed himeelf as 3 Polish —
chauffeur for the Soviet Exbassy in that city. This indiviceal, |
while discuecing several matters of intelligence interest, teached.
on ths posalbility that the Sovict Government had finansedthe
assoasination of President Remnedy, Reference was. made in thts
cable to the recelpt of a similar ancoymous telephone
15 Cetebsr 1962. -

 

3. Upon receipt of thie cable from Navy CUA took the
folleeing sction:

 

i : a. Cabled to Canberra aking fall detaite of the Ls
4 telophone conversation of 23 November aad the call made

: - on 15 Cetober 1952. It ghould be noted that CRA Aad not

i : previously known of the 1962 telephone call. .

 

- . .

   
  

|
|
|
i

eran? ot

WARNING NOTICE.
SENSITIVE sour CES AND
Oye METHODS re

LAist me asm Coenen Crees at
 

:

sad ete mnestermanenmemnnernttelen

 

‘ 4

fio Rene ee

 

 

pon Atcnenananen mime cetemt TL oe

 

GRR z Le
ENS SOURCES ANS
‘ESEBODS INVOLVED Os

     

 

 

CUT Teletype Wo. 85691, dated 29 Noveastor 1952, filed at N17 hours,
tothe White House, Department of Stet: amd Federal Burena all :
Investigation, with a copy tot ths: Secret texsica ;

i. Your attention is called t a ecrise of anonymous tstephone
calls made to the office of the U.S. Naval attache by Canberra, \..
Auctralia, Sy o man claimiag to have h=d knowledge shout 3 Bovies _
plot to aseagsinate the late Prealdent Keampdy. -Cur firet eecord
Of this matter is & Naval Attache cadblc tress Canberra sent on
a4 November 1963. ak

 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

ze Ig appears that the caller, whe praéesees te be the Polish
chauffeur of a Soviet Exabaesy.car tn Cosberray fivst phoned
over a year ago, am 15 Octebar 1962 renust 1962. At that time be
told a stary about five Soviet subearinzs carrying 506 to 506 Soviet
aclditve on their way to Caoba. Cae purpese of this treap WONVERAANE,
ho paid, eas to aupport the Governer of Missisafippl, Re added thet: .
thera wae a plot ¢o pay one hundred thouszad dollars to kill President —
Kenneay- Beblad tha plot, be said, wers ths “Even Cartala Counteles,“

"Communist men, page. Heng Zong sul protabiy epme ter ;
comtvive.® .

 

 
 
    

 

 

%. On2 November 196} repeat 1995, ths day after the :
assacoination of F resident Kenedy and ever a year afer tha ite
tolophons cell, a man beliaved te ba the came person phoned the —
Embassy again and epoke to the ascistizs Mevak Attache. The calter.
referred to his call s year back end stated he had valid thet the USEE.”.
had pat °P 100,066 dollars ior the aenasrlantion of President Remedy.

 

   
  

4 Stving what he claimed were farther éetaile abot
assassination, the caller eaid thet aboot tea weeks before (chich
would have heen in carly November 1947] ke was present when an
Australian mas, 35 to 46 years old, and tell, was dlepatched by -
the Sovicts te the United States carrying 3 case about 33 to 40
contimeters long, $0 centimeters high, and 8.5 centimeters wide.
The name Vasyl Deo was used ia soms coumection with this man.
He wae pet on 2 plane im Syduey end whils the caller drove the two |:
Soviet sacarta back to Canberra, their chentvawa radio in the car *
wae going constantly. A shortwave radia wae going in the Embassy

 

      
 
  

  

ae7 WARNING NOTICE
aware beeecey sem astral
Sgt i ewermasiay 194
A oeeia et ceciaraalis2i03.

 
   

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLN?S
 

a Pr ened ndeDCRtottennae eM

- employae of the Amovican Embasey he thinge works for the Sovietes: co
The conversation concluded with the caller prozaising te write & fetter

. WHS nat disguiaing his voice.

 

  

  
  

SENS VE SOURCES . 0D
METHODS INVOLVED

  

alse when they arrived there. Cvor these radios, one of thece Sovietn
transmitted numbers and "pointe." Yhry remained inthe Smbsasy, ont
that mourniag fanparently 22 Neverober 1947), & meanage came through
and toasts were drank in Raasion Vode. and the Reassiens present gaid,
“we have achieved what wa want."

$. The caller then gays "information about the favict role
in cinking 3 U.S. Nevy nuclear submarine and on Sovict subversion in
Indonesian. Be would sot identify hicsel!, and whes he deccribed the
sar r be drives (as 5 navy bine 1952 Buick, Neense plate New South Gales
< 6122) he addad they often change plate, have Hays gots. in reserve,
ma can changd then In flve seconde.

_ & The caller added soni vagon information about & wormed...

  

to the Naval Attache at the Amorices Embaesy.

 
   
  
 

?. The caller epoke good Evglish and hie aecent and velco
net change throughoot the conversation, so 2 was aevamed that he”

€. Agetralion authorities working en this case consiéer. ‘tha’
caller to ba a crank. Thay state that Soviet offices in Australla
do nok use anythiog bet Soviet chanilaure; they have no vecord of
theit using a Polish chauffesy. They are contiguing their tavestigation.

 

 

 
