 

ote

cht ap a CE teacer, Ge Likewise glaimd that the tev Portiguéee, Parnanie
SS SM Casves snd Alberto Alegamcr ine dos GAT, were both astpatcetle teard
the DRily end ve eonalcere Angola t. be “anebier oasy fecnt®, Sos LOC. ta
optpertedly urgudgzing a abipavnt of Yugos.av ares to go to Fortugese Africs
froe Tangier, N20 goa one of the orrestess uf the Boigien police in august 19.

ks of 19 August he wes etill boing deta:ed by the polioa.

8. dafael varfe Su
BB: 2) Cotober 1920 in Madrid, Spain. Ha is 6 Gitisen of Jenmeuala. He
| wes aprested by the-Balgian polices in Lioge ea ¢ DRIL meaber in early august 1960
and as of 19 dmguet wes still being detained by the police. Bhan he was sesroned

pad isterroceted, the folloring was found to be in hie possvesion!
(1) A sabotage manual prepared ty Gcnere] Alberto BATO
(2) A dslayed action incendiary dsvice
(3) Miscellaneous correspondence
(S) Finenetal records and other documents 1

 
 

 

 

Yo QLetuaL INV Par Ms

_ Agsordsruy to dean tiFDAL, the eoving s,.irit bebind the Spanish emarchiete
in Trance, the FAl (Feduration of Iberian drarchists) ia not cullaborating with
either the Commnista or the OPI,
Ife CUMA/RELOLUM/D8 ih Rat ATs

4 23 duly 196) roport atated that t.e Sosnish-Bei pian Fr ecadship society

fn Felgive receives financial eld froa Humberto Bodr:gues Tow:U, Cuban Rabasay
in Wedrids .
Tro Preaident of the Society is 7elix FELMANDEZ BSantiateban, and ite

Secretary {9 Fdusrdo TELL Nohet.
1% 9 interesting to nate here that sbderrassn WULZY Kore requested, ia @

latter to "Cho? OUEVARA, financial aid from the Cuban Coverntent and a release
of exile DRiL funts ever which General BAYS had contrals Aa a followmep to this
letter Blay GUTIYRICL Henayo weat to Liege, Delgium, to make a firatehand ostinate

ef URIL leadership, capabilities, sad potential, prolininary to the unfrceging of

any funds in tw ational Dank of Quba, Later as @ reault of soma interrogations
of DFLL sweabers appretauded io Belgium, 4% was leerned that Fidel CASTES has
agreed to release large amounts of Spanish funds Blocked in Cubs to suppor’ the
ERIE with tho provision ta’ CASTE can be assured thst the nature of this urgatie
gation is jurely revolutionary ad 1s dedicated to the overthroy of the Franco

Regine.
TIT, APRIGA/ORIL RUAT CROAT poy

extno PEWA and Yavier LASTRA, both [RIL mecbire, have taken tw initiative
along with several Belgians aympatietic to the Spanish osuse, of aryrnising @ group
called Licpe-te-agne. A meeting of this organisation was held in the Hote),
Central, Liege, Belgium, on 2? deptaxbar 1960, Adsdesion was by Lyeitation ealyy
ant several senbere ct the CORY (Comite Selee pour la Paix en Algurie, Belgian

Gommttec for Fesog in Aluoria) were prevent.

RN won

rc
 

SECRET

 

: : _ Adder bo She Study 29 the
~ Buresterte Bevoluglonerle Ibertoo de Liberacion
‘Qberien Revolutionary Direstpate of Liberation fil

 

 

SECRET oer iqbo.
 

 

ioe

 
 

We. F
Subject, o Cutan, is the father of Juan ame) GIA verea, a Cuban inbasay

euployee L. iadrid, Guoject is an attsc.e at the Cuban cnbesay, wadrid, end is

also a mecber of the Cudsa arcantastiva, MEX (Departamento de iavestigosivase del

Bjercite Rovolucionarto}. Mie jrincipsl nission iu frain la to give aid to the

DRIL,

2

2. dose Antonio XxtH.S Orancae

DORs 2 Deesater 1925 et Fasajes do fan redro, Subject was arrested by the

| Balgtan pol foe on é Awgiet 1769 fc Liege, Belgiun, aa a semder of the MAIL. Ai of

17 Auguat 2965, de was etil buing detained ty the police, Mie brother, Felix
ReeDDCS Orange, bar: 2 duly WO at vasajen du Jan bedro, wna Likewise appre-
beaded, hore have teen cs Surther details on Felix. ita, lawever, carrisd on his
pergon a List of names ard addregsea of corrcapondocts in verivug cvuntriss which
the Belgian palios confiscated.
2. apbro 9 NZALE? tata Lledor

DOB. 25 kay 1926 in coma de Lengreo, Uriedo, Srain, Subject prepared two
qoitease bombs whiaa were sent by reil on the HadrideBareelona train, ami which
exploded on the mail car ou 27 June 1960. Ue, thea, is believoc to neve fled to
France or Relginme - After Ria arreat by the delgian police, aluay wit other DAIL
meanders, on 6 August 1960, be was interrogated and resortedly put across the Dutch
berder by th» Belgiass ca 18 Acquat 190) bowever, there has been no evidw:ce that
he ever entered Helland.
he Floy GUTIEES27 Bonazos
Subjeet wae been ia Cpein and coriig te Cuban Sevolstisn font tn the
Eacanbray Yovmtaina, 4g 2 DRIL lescer fron Cuba, -ubjeot, on 26 duly 1x0, vas

lodged #t tse Cutan Subessy in wadrid, At tat tine, he was én ruts bu “urls,

SECRET
 

 

SECRET
“3

Prancy. Hio trip to the Lervpcan euntinent waa cxrected oith Chil mbtere. la

Liege, Belgium, he was arrested on 6 August 178, aat interrogated. ite waa thes

purportedly ex; Ded fros Deigiva ao of U7 August and returned to Cuba. A later

-poport, however, stated that he departed by plane for Parts on 12 August Wd.

So payos guts Fovoat
Subjecs has been (deatified a3 the inetizater of the boabings which took

placa in Sen Sobartian, 3painy in Inte dune or early July, 1960. fe etated that
further acta of terrurisa were to bo comittec in late vuly. Pron aidwuly te
early August, de was in Toulouse, Prance. tn 6 Augist 1960, ARN vas apprehended
along with other Oil meabers by the Selgtas polios in itece, Deigitm, Mo was
searched, queationed, and re. ortedly sunt acess Qe Dutch border on 1 August 1960.
There has been, however, no cvideses Wat acither he sor his conpatriot, Arturo

QONTALEZ Weta Miedo, exe currently 1: Holland, or da fact ever entered the Dutch

torritorys

6. Haima PUA Qo: galoge
DOBs 7 April 192) af Vilianeuva, Spaia. Ne Lives at 321, Tue St, Laurent,.

tdege, Belgiua, and is a monber of AREL (Agrepscion Republicana Eepanola do Livga)»
an anti-Franeo Ap which is dusinsted ty Communists and foclalists. Accarding
to L_ "] sev sect is an architect by Frafesaton ard is in

cherge of the politics! and dirlomatic matters for the DAIL; tut he hag boen identi-

 

 

fied by others ae the aovountant and financial manager cf tre ULL in Liegee.

te

MBs 73 Cotober 1925 in Barcelona, Spaine Subject solicited fiauelal eld
fron cubs ant other Latin Anorican comtrics, sjccifcally, apge:tina and Veneavela,
for continued 2RIL terrorist sotivity in pein ins letrer to "Che* GLEYARA, hoed
of the Cuben Ratiocal ‘Bank, ds aleo roqueated that G.2Va3A or Ren) GASTIY aun tect
Gererel Alberto BAYO Giraud in an eff. rt to eatios hin inte giving support to the

SECRET
