 

i
{
i
}

    
    
      
   
   
    
      
   
     
   
     
     
  

   

‘6 Kay 1960 ©
Peer 6

wealthy owner of o finca 2rd that thie friend ted ;resised hia tre use of the
fines for euch varecilit rr treining sur:oses as he might bare et eome jater date.
the corveresticn did net rermit ee to learn the wan's name at the time and 1
gergtien the point here sereiy as a lead for ,cesible later followup.

SERED

= 20, Varona teid -# that be had Mined ‘up a baa redio opereter in Carecte,
VYenemuela snd that he wished te institute a radio sehedute between a mn inthe |
Miemt area and the one in ‘erzsuola to give him eommunication with hie sPoup .

-' @own there. This patter: wie established curing the Datists regice ty the re!
> writs, and it 1s desirable now, according to Varone, in view of the itresioes
e@owmunicstion fsellities between Carsess and the United States, I suggested
thet we mignt be able te help hin eet up the American end of this met. ~ ~~

_ Mi, whom I brought up the point of establishing staybehind comme with his
people fa Cuba to be in readiness in the-event of a break in relations with the
United states, he we <ulte enthusizstic. Re ie going to come up with names ef.
poople who could come to tis country for three or four veeke for the necessary’ \
gomem training and then go back in to tork transnitters-receivora and/or te Na
train others. I also pronieed Yarona that we could meke radio trenszittor=

receivers available to bin, yee mo

“9a, Y wsed the name “Robert Rogers® with Varona, Since AN*AIL-3 ams algo
4m tom, had seen ms the preceding day and aleo knows 29 sa "Regers" this leoked
Like the beot alliage ; . . a

 
 

     
   
    
      

  

 

 
      

 

 

   
 

. “Pietrtbettons Jt
Be & Lo Of-H;
nh w wh/b/Frep
R= sH/R/intes = -
Rie wifes
L = s/a/ehrone (Heme for the Resord)

  
 

 

6 May 1960
Page &

Ji, Varona told mo thst before lesving Cube he vas able to erginice a-
ennplote wrierground novemant of -covle whe ere not cpenly identified with the
Autentico Meve-ent. ~ ms .

32, Coneorning o site for a future Junta, Covernnent~in-exile, irectorio
of whet heave you, Tarona doubte that Costa iies will te suitable. «eistions
betwoen “Pepe” Figueres and Tresident -ehendi are rot aa good 26 they vould have
te te for Pigueres to obtain the approval of Eehandi for such activities, there
would be no problem in tolding = nesting or series of restings of tiie group in
San Jose, but as a permanent site, it is douttful, in Yarona‘e opinion, (1
didn't bring up the concept of a covermment-in-exile or «ny of the attendant
ego] problems, so we didn't discuss this, In my view it would be better for
the Benier-Corr group to raige the roint.) Soe .

- 23- When I asked him then what voild be e better serdanent site for the
" @fresting bedy, he said that Kexico would be goods but the United states would
undoubtedly have to be the win rseembly point for theso people.

>. Dbe Verona raised the question of Sanches \wango. He leans in favor of
having Sanches join the Sirectorate, if I may cxll it thet, He did say that
. Sanchos, Like Rubio Fadilla, bas tote handled with kid yloves. For example,

- Sanches should never sttend « meeting of Cubans snd their <marionn advisors,
.@- Kr. Bender or Mr, Carr, for the ressen tint to Sanches Arango thie would
appear to be servitude on che part ofthe Cubang towards the Auerteans, And if

at ony leter date he had a difference of opinion with the other Cubans in the
group, he might charge them with being lnckeye of the imericens. with this in
mind, Varona recommended that we talk to Sanches Arango soparateiy before he
eins any Cuban group uncer cur sponsorships :
aa 15, When I gave Yarona the letter from Junn Antonio Rubio Vadilla, he asked

. 0 vhat 1 thought of kubio, in non=comaittal {ashion 1] turned the question around

to Varona himealf, At this, he amtled end paused a long tir: ond than told me

iat Aublo was a fine aan but that he had lost two ecne who died of the sane
dlinens, thet this tae onde of hing Lf not a bitter man, one vho reteina hie
Serdepe: 4¢ te an extrecsce This te die m@ineiml sharacdsia-lis,  iobitieslly,
he ie .uite eonservutive but mree of any involvenent with the Hatiata regine,
He'a a min whe likes to work slong and vho je ach inelined to go slong with the
whl) of the majority in altuitious like the present ane where meabarg of the
opposition te Castro are trying-'o organise despite internal polities) apeforengess

  

 

3be In connection with hia ontry st Idlewild on 4 May, Varons asked Carr
for sore help hen Carr called nia Inter in the ovening.s Carr in turn referred
him to @ gentlewnn neased Leon Dennen who Lives rt 7? bark Terrnoe “ast and hos
two Colephonns, '4 G-Lihk and 1G 7abh72. fennen telephonac varonn on the noroing
of $ May at Varona'a hotel and volunteared to hulp Varona-with ony ysrobleme he -
@ight have vith Imdgration and Neturalisation.s After i Aad oxplained to hin

any

  

 

 
 

 

 

6 kay 1960
Pege 5

what the speeial :roceture imvolred, Yarom aav no further need to talk ta
Dennen, However, | auscestesi we check ~ith Carr to fing out Low this aan ot
into our operst: one :

17. The politieal vwrt of our discussion we to have followed a forant
whieh “r. Sreller and { worked cut before 1 left. It wae to incluse a reticcale
for the cresent United States’ position in iatin ‘zeriea and wep to Gover such
itera ae bis travel to .ashineten, but the conversation ¢: tickly took such > turn
that I sede a couple of on=theespot changes. “or one ®hine, verona da suite
familiar with United itates! ti inking on cuba and is unhappy stout it. in the
respects I have renticned earlier, tut :% least he's so;histieated enouch to
understand the whys and wherefores. (ne fairly inpartant point wien «e did cover,
however, eoncerred the sernter—Carr group. : teld varons very frankly chat certain
setivities were not ei:hir gy province but *here was a eroup that i woe ware of,.
heeded by Yr. Carr (wiose name incidentally Varona hod mentions: to me first},
that this group waa comeletely reliable and velleintentioned and did have the
proper contacts -ith eur pevernment and thot he should lave no reservations bout
working with tris grou, it this sane tine, I ynve Yarona ny own enorgency .
telephons muster, KR %469, in cass he should have any problems with United States!

authorities euch se IX, ing { also discussed with hin « number of figures of

importance in the Caribbean ,olitieal aituitlon-eintelligece actters abich an
Amerigan offleizl vould hays interest in, tho subiecte that I “avoided” were
paranilit«r; rnd the weat'on of conversion sf vases for etollnes. Fo dintt
bring up the point sn‘ we talked about 30 .any other things that i deeidsd te
leave this one for the xttertien of the fordemCarr groun, ea Lt locked Jite

& good oprortunity for then to help Yaron out and thereby establish that .mueh
Bore raprort,.

14 Verona told ~e that In tha twelve houra or eo thet he'd now taon in
Now York he hed already received on e¢proach from cuseblo Nujal, the Jonner
eklef of the CTC unter Batista, Throvrh «a wan naned Alverto ur ‘lfreds cua,
Mujal sent word that ne recornized that any roturn to the stotug utes Batleta
ie new out of the - usebion ad that he is willing to Vary o}t ey 2 ond
work in complete harmony with auch ,cople ra Tony Varona with tix &
of riddine cube of Fides © Yarene {9 not going te reject tra
out of hand tut te zolaa te y AR very arrefualy -nd rik be ecua of “ie Cuban
Golleagues about it. im tris connaction, It Le interesting to note thut vrona
and perhaps other vubane may well be vortaning towards the ‘orcer "untouchable®

groupe of [attotorog s@ In tha onse of Mujod “nd fehaw, the weiter that L
montioned eloewero, ’

   
 
    
    

 
 
 

SPAMEEI TR

19. “@ did nok tieoumn this eubjeat at gresk Longe! aa 1 tad very carefully
frnen a line between the autividses Im whie: 1 had W Legit be sntor ea
United diabee! Covenant offiolal emi thone wiieh ecuid bent nandhas Sn gotee
jumotion with iriv-ts qroups, te@, the Garneiten ter eroun (noe paragenih V6
Nowever, Varona iid mention to ie tha: ne Rad, in Venonunla, a Prisiat ste wae &

    
 

ie

 

& May 1960

  
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  

{

{

{

1 : WEMORAWDUM PUR TRS RFEORS we, a Set . :

1 oa :

SUBJECT: Meeting with or, Kanwel Amtenke Varons on § May in hew York City,
1036 to 1915 houre oo

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
       
   
    
    
      
    
     
     
   

 

ORY . : . ©

de Yarona arrived the evening of & Mey and registered at the st. verita =|
Hetel, After severs) unauccessful efforts to rosch hia there (becouse his clans —
. wee late), I finally. got-hin.:t sbout-2330 hours and.:cheduled.» coebing-with hia
for the next coming, I met him in the lebby of the hotel, .nd we spent the bet=
ter pert of the next three hours in @ stroll around Contre] iark ant st lunehe ;
for the first heur er 50 Veron unloaded «-mumter-of theughta on the curro-t
polities) situctions most of these ~o sre slresdy familiar with, but among the
pointe thet he had te make vere some which my be new ond wtiich cre covered belor, .

. 2. YVarona wag shocked over the Nenate Interna] jecurity Subcomuitte’s

choice of Col, UGALDE Carrillo to tuatify before than, Varons deso-ites thie

person as en sbgolute wr erluing] whe. hasno business appesring before any

| official United states body, He enya th:t he might resign himself to the fact
thit #n our-derceratio,-perlimantary ayetem of sovernmment such things can happin,

there is not ihe slightest rossibiilty that the avorege Latin dmeriaan court ever

wideratand thet thie setion doea not reprecent the thinking of the entire United

States Government, Shen I tried to explain thie in terms of our traditicnal

roo. geparntion ef powers between the ‘egtelative and cxecutive crenehes, the foot

- -. . ° . that we are in an eleation soar, and other exteruating ciroumstances, “srons

. Co expressed amasezant tmt ve have no nore of a sen.@ of con on pursose here in

this country than we apparently do, The Legislative French goes one dirgotion

end the Sxecutive Branagh goes another ond there appeare to be Littls coordination

between the two.

»

9, Veron: wne alse quite unharpe chout. the.spesdal procedure yhich Leate
@ration had given him shen ha resahed iww fork the night veform, Ne timughh
that he hed been hundled ino rethor diecourtaous my and could not underatand
why he was placed on porole snd inatructed to toep Im digestion end Fevurslivation
informed of his -ddrese "t 011 tines, | explained thie s:eaisd ,;yreajure to him
and emtwaized the fret that Lt we aonetiing that we laid on for cnly certain
soloot roopie, that it woe cutting through mountrine of red tena di remitting
vieiters sish o8 Varena to move -reund the country or even to leare it end retkurr
- without the normal administer tive Wifftoultios, Thies moliified his, and iran
_ that peint oa 1 would say that our eoneorertin wae on © vory cordial plang.

   
 

 

1odt0t67-10036)

 

 

    
  

 
 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY —
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

5 NAME AND ADDRESS | werias |
_ W/L /Intel (your copy)

           
 
    

-- ( Tacron Tf ommect_nepuy | [prepare eepuy |
[_[apaova, ss] «| ousmareW” «|| RECOMMENDATION
[~ [commer

 

 

  

   

FROM: NAME, ADDAEES AND PHONE NO.

   
  

 

 
  
 

   

LE R Form 3. (40)
7 irs 237 wil ay be used __.., HAs tovennnnst pase arneg 88 -O-paz05t

 

 

 

 
  
 
 

“RETURN TO.CIA-
Background Use’ Onl
Do Not Reproduce

   

 

  
 

Wb ptlipa ed ee ae

 

i SS
y-

6 say 1960 . 4

Fogs 2 i j

. you

he Having just returned fron the Conference on Deservey and Srecdon in Ye. i

Caracee, Yarona had a numter of thourhts on thet. .6@ consicered the t mfercnee
@ great success from the :tar.doint of the \iteral “ubans wo ho: opposed any =~
Fesolution approving the Castro regine, fe said there ws s strong uove sfeot to
put over such.» resolution but that he, Janches irenge, Jose lgnacilo naseo snd
others were able to keep sush 4 resolution from beirg sassed, 710 in s;onsors
of this, by the -ay, were neubers «f the left wing of «!0 ‘ccion iwsoer-tica of in
Venesuela, “eo also said that a nusbur of -eople of lib ral tendancice attended = |
the weeting with gross missonee;t ions concer: ing the rature of the Castro regine
end that be and tho cther Gubans th:t 1 centioned were ablo to convert a number ‘
of these, mong thea vere Aliende (fu) of Appentina an@ several others whose t
naeee he hag recorded, in other .orda, some good alasicn ry work sas done st the“
Lan fone ese ++ Gonference, In terms of officis] results, there wag very little. ke-tol.cw- -- .
: that the agenda was not terribly well worked out, that the peorle in attentance = |
an et the Con‘erence were of c:any politiesl hues «nd that nothing of greet interest |.
CT aap §00k plage on the floor itself but rather in private caucuses and .eiall xestings ”
: behind the scenes. 141) mention sone af the resulte of tre Conference which are \
. @f interest to us cperationally in sueceeding paragraphs, ‘

          
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
     
  
  

   

iineatemncte teri eur p \nnpsipeeaheeenitnainprte etiam ncgmaee mene tn HHS

* Sq He euite naturally had a great desl to say .bout the Cestre regins and
be pointed out three areag in which Castro enjoys « grest cropaganda adventage
today, ayeag which we would be well sdvised-to keep in mind in planning our om ]
_ Propmgnndas These are the followingt ; yoo:

   

Be Castro's conversion of forner nititery varrackes inte schoole.. te a
hag been 8 trem-ndous propaganda succeas for Caotro. Ke hoa monsged
to soM~pedal completely the fret thst bets built new barracks and) that
the srmy is now bigger than it over has beens

 

 

ae - be The intent wistrust or outright. dislike of the United states in the
'. . ginds of nest Latin Amerienns. Gastro has been able to play this theme
backward and forw:rd, openly ond tacitly, with sroat. sussess. . !

' @. The apparent affinity of the tnited “tates! Senate for former suprortere
- OP i.e Patiete regine. Tale has boon teushed on in an casiicr joregragie ©

SON

   

6. Varona told me that he plarned to vo to Miami on 6 vay and return to t
Wew York City on the sighthor the morning of. tha ninth, During these two or three |
daye in Vieni he venta to find sn apeptuent. He-wiil return to New fork in tine =;
for the socting of other Cuba o) position le:core, tneiuling Juste Carrillo, :
Resee and ethore, and hag no intention at tls time of going to haghingtor.

 

 

7. He would like te tring pia SAfe ana denshter tothe totesna goon ae: |
possible but hopes he can «Dlow ide daughter to Male primary gehool, which wii

 
74-0000

  
 
  

“s feels that he can be useful if- he-writes-anenymously or umier a ren name; Heiss %> ~~
‘meet anxious to bring him cut and «ill undoubtedly plan on using him for propaganda

‘ whieh juet finished, varona told me that the epsech which Caldera (1 believe it \ °
; @ tremendous speech, ‘This, for sone reason, has not been purliclesd either in

.. Matin Amerdea or here in the United states, according te Varona. “It would he’. +
‘ wery good for us to do overything possible te spread the word of Caldera throughout

there. He expects to use Carsena ago distribution center fer ;ropagsnda“through=

_ te the Minister of Treseury» WMAYOHPE, a bis official contact. .
POLITIC’L ACTION

 

 

  

6 hay 1960
Page 3°
tere until sround 10 June, tefore tringing her and the ‘otter uver. He fe siso !
qaite concerned sbovt the serwint, -o <ld family reta.ner, stese visa bse not yet -
been issusd teesuse of sowe difficuities she fot into several yours ‘go -ithout
Being awsrs tt she wis i peaking a Liited. stctes! le. Thia wstler cas beon
serered im an exchange of cables om} : recormend that .e do vhatever «@ ean “er
the woman 20 18 to eet the Jarom ‘smily’s mind -t ense om this ;eint.

PRONG EDL oo i oy

8. ‘Uaring our converantion ‘arena ende a nusber of reinte vhich my be of ¢
walue in connestion with our forthsosing propaganda ;rogrsm, ‘ewertl of our -
wolnerabilities I've referred to in onc of ths earlier p-ragraphs, and we should
49 whatever ve ean to repair them. Another roint of interest ves varona's feeling
toward Francisco ICHASO, Thia.gentlemn used to be 1 writer of editcrials for |
go tn Marira, and he hus also worked for Sohenia and station Chi. He wa \
tistaa one tims. Varona boa a wery high regard for hiz es a writer and

writing if and when ichaso gots cut of Cuba, Contersing the.csracas Conference ;

de Rafecl Caldera) ade at the closing section wen, to his own vorda, "fornidable™,

the hezisrhore. Verona also said thit duardo PRAE Yonlva of: chile -spoke sae octad
extremely well on the opening day bub that his reverks were off-the-cuff and there’
probably is ne written record of what Frei had to say.

 

9. Before leaving Caraeas, Varona organized » nucleus of a propaganda outlet y

out South Averien and the Caribbean. fe had @ talk with resident Betancourt
there vho approved this netivity. Betancourt teld Yarons henceforth to se directly

 

20, Yarena obvivusiy has o great nany ideas on the .elitiesl field, fie he oat
& Fopresentative in Caracas, ag I have sentioned, snd he hopes within the near : ay
future ia heve bie om reo)le in every country of the hantsphcrs «8 agiteprop _o Bs
bynes, Git of the won Ghat he oxpeate to use for thie type Amallo FLALLO, who ‘Le
now dn Miomd and who has been montioned dn comunlestions to the ‘ield ond in a ;
POROFS ilien treticp: tie Fdallo ia a Cuban, 8 forver anahey of Aacio? Cato) loa, ie
Heta extranely wall-—crlanted ,olitioslly and en cuoellurt a;eckor,. ‘islle mide :
only ons mistake in nde politienl enreer, segording to Varona, That was in 1959,
whan he cup; orted the iden of elections under the Katieta regine. li@ hos since
geen wo Light and ie now sonaidere! quite relioble and valundle by Varona, wie
plane to send him on « tour of Latin Ameriea,

 

 

 
