14-00000° aig g4 "9a 29:38 P.3

‘piveaten ; — Ctk= 5815

Scivatifia Collaboration dgreenant, (vee GPii-2488),

b. Swmervua contacts have taken place between GDTERE, ODINEE, CDMTE
sepresentatives and their Soviet counterparts. Most of these have bees
Peperted ta th their Headquarters and are promumbly evailable to KTMARK Heed-

quarters,

i. VaNErE/S and VAEITTA frequently revelve <ovitetions te Soviet
241 parties and other effisial faxations, VANITT/S has sosssionally
attended then, these eome qomestion with the Finlend-

» particularly ee having
Goviet tice Seotety. WaNWET/L hes attended lees Srequantiy siege he prefers
te aveld the escktall eieeuit, . '

Jn Yaree vs Nrappanoy mov}, escorting te the TICE, ves spotted ta
early 1058 jAcking wridantified Social Besscratie maber of the Dict

ACG TES epeke to hie and even though he alaimed that bis asnscistion waa :
dnaceeat, eee cant vuaioe wat ecnen beware te :

war
be od arip'to the
waited TAD DI ene dnertoen nape after that qunpuniy hea had wna si
ALIET 8H /8 WGs said that VLADRCIROY seams to be especially interested in
the Fimioh Weserve Offiew Aszociation,

1. V, Me VILDIMIROV has alvo wade a! te oultivate the
correspondent hate, Langelot KEYMORTE. ‘ly, Yo Ho VORON DT tried to
oultivate Donald BAT, an axpatriate dmericen journalist hare, to the axtent
thet VOROMIN offered MY an axpansdé=paid trip to Riga, Latvia, MAY refused.

m, Arbassader LEBIDRT end Cowmseler moror* im 1855 and 1956 had 3
several] luagheona with 1 Gosiel Semocrate such aa LEY end SiG. : :
Me late 1057 and ac far in 1968, there has been no euch lunches or :
iavitations by the Soviets te bigh membere of the Goaial Bansoratia
Purty (aa epposed to the Simoniste), according to VAIS /4,

a Y #. vatonm” » who has beam identified da the VAQUINO operation as
a ROB effieer specializing im American and Britiah gouteats, algo hobmoba
with eaters of Helsdiuki bullet end teeter eirales (hie wife ie a formar
bellet dancer enceatry| ecoasicnally hes iefson with
Fined eh-doviet ship Seaiety. °

2. The Sowkets have munerous advantages for operating in Finland, dome of
thelr principal adveatages are: sae

a, A larger staff of representatives then any other country); « larg
staff then either af the Fianish security services trying te keep track at thea,

b. Ownership of seventy buildings or apartments in Heletak! alone,
@. A large indigenous Communist Party.

4, They omm a large business firm which has gas atationn im alwost
every Finnish healet, namely, Trustd Vayan Benatini,

@. Lack of defensive audle-aurveilianse equipment and leowsbow oe the
pert of the Finnish security services,

ft, The longest comon border with amy Vesters Buropesm comtrys this
border le not heavily guarded on the Pinniah side,

g. foviet officials stationed in pany cities aside from Helainkl,
he The Finns” weakness for alochal, ,
i. Gaese officers vio spectalice in various strata af Firmish aactoty,

ap opposed to minisaule Western country ataffa which de mot have time or
am power to speciaiiue,

fe oe me Premoerrere Se ee - “55%
%e pcteny $a
Wm VE Mo amet . oer ly &,
os ket Ae HE a

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

 

 

 
[ia-too7-toz] |

ox!

 

 

bane , OPWA-3515

DISPATCH _

Ober, im Load

ha

Fae i; .
Chiat af mation, fit AO hugust 1064

vet atooabe or oe re?

StatlenApayationa —- Survey of Offietal and Ovart a) ere
, AOU hee of Soviet Officials, Tt teat te at ate

te ebte abe fet
_ Hows, fer Laformation ealy, geen eae une
1 Piald Potties so, #35, £8 Way 1958

 

1. Der a taloramaon Pield Ketioe, ue atte the following (netansea
(of wad kmotledge) of Soviel efferta te eatebliod afftatea! aad
geodal Gomal rapport vith leoel geverancat offlatala, ‘pelitieal

wr
lesdere, and perseas tm the flelds af economies, eotenge, Cecheslegy, labor
felatioas, maitural Batters, eto. tmeluded ales are some finatances af ot
coataste with OOTORE represmtatives in Ralelakt, dscerding te VA00 o Geviat

increased

continued siane that time, fy duly 1066 WACO DER/L ynve Paudletes 9 lowe lecture

ST have'vese omalng ead te
Soviets alase apprezion aid-19 LT) fore wore aut @
eeela) fselatica and aang sedial comtacta someviat to the mamser of Weaternara:
thay cont sumer aad vintar Gottages eutelde af Walsinkt and tayite indioidaal
Pits er small groupe out for an cvening featuring lmmocuous conversetion vos
drinking. The Soviets uy te keep the Plage they are Gultiveting en 4 exetal
kerry~go=

fern dow. All thie eake AOS Tes? werk of kaeptag track of Soviet eoplenage
auch more diff tault, io trying to get wore datail ad information fron
the VieG INES.)

&. %% the fal) of 10665 “‘Rikhals Grigeryeviah eorory (6 fedlestee known
G3). Guunealor af ihe Soviet Rubauay, ieviled VARDIT DEAL te a peteste
diemer after having set Waa Lat TON / las official peoeption at the Soviet

"Be van By ee evict Conral ia Raletaks tran 1964
(ropenatatdy bid Asch ith WACO DRL, and some efttoeea,ot oie]
t wat

ae Burt o,°
freon early 1906

   

VOROW IN malatalned foolal goatect with Sherwin C. Torrey son
Ld hegust 1648, °

d. Viktor P, “Third Secretary at the Soviet Bubssey, hae Leled
ca fain amubership th the Western Poretgn Prose Club (WIC) tut wee precasse
Thase Include Joooph Se Tiffany ant bene DRO ao Tal et neon cas :
hase leciude Jo " any e 2g Sa Bawapaps ‘

oaally eatariaing VATU/l. a

*, Origerty Yo'fyaton’, doviet Cenesl vbe rapleoed I. f,

Sehorrey
Joteed the Heletaks ar Corpe, viuloh-had Prertensty bed’ m Sine. *
Goviet hice Feptesamtelives, tn the fall of J87y lace the Congalar Carpe

la eat epeotfically a "Weetarat body, tha Carpe had fo valid reason ta refuse
Ale entey, As Car a4 ta iene, oo other Slae-Geviet Bier representativee
have followed GOLUB Late tha Carpe, sony ;

f. Gurlag 1986, VALUATOR/1 has had eevaral ‘pegetletions vith Ue Bovlat
Commerelal Kleales fa Haldtak regarding Soviet ferchaare of soap~esk tng
adohinery and soap, VALORTORA has alsa visited Lanttgret La coneeation wt th
Uheas noyotiatione and plans lo vialt Moscow fer Purth ar Lalke,

go VAROI/! bas sent « Pleated Qedieal gladent lo wlady te the ORR,
fa eotern, the Sovi eta latend to send theese Setieel etadente on ehart/viatits
tacjalaw,, Mey catagurias of gona ta the Chalde of octanes, Legimn] ony »
  
   
   

14-00000 , AUG G4 *98 @9:48 Pid

eo

OPATCH j : | WA - 3415 i

tones. es nnn rereemeans cmmm oe on

; Jo The largest mmber of tourists transiting Finland in both .
direstionc, :
ke A cultsral, solawtific asd teolmtoal collaboration agreement for ;

caver of ange operations. ty

le oe wumbers of Pinas either wostkiog oa kydreclecstris statlons ,

n the soviet Glen or getee a8 denies Moacev an tourtets. This :

Sarnishes emaellext cover fer spotting, esseselng, Peoruiting and ether \

operational antivitios,

Oliver P,

hig Ell

   

ADDEEDGHs (add to end ef paragraph 2) .
a Two Goviets who heave teu quietly asked te leave ¥imlend ware RIB
officers

$e work for the Soviets and doviet ease officera tnimaclves have very
little to fear fren Pinaish law enforvanent odd, lang
too brases la their activities. ses as thay are not

4 :

: ;

j :
7 :

; ;

i

;

'

i

t

:

t

t

'

' 4

(

SW a apg

 

Faq iDUS nevis GER THRR AS iE ye =

wu
AACEN Fone (. 3
Comat ons is | e

eostn-et BE Fara Ub NE

 
