 

Yg-40448-10045
u

.¢
<e “NO
s, e & .*

Lo ; ( 5 January 1964,
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD af

FROM z Lawrence F, Barker

SUBJECT : Meeting with LITAMIL~9, 27 Deceuber 1963

1. A meeting with/L-9/was held in Bts car fron 2000 mtil 2140 hours
27 Decenbder, : aan

  
 
 
  

a DIP Mp auaynecas
2, LITAML- reported on, the recent! Pring
and this was mado the subject Of tus tables

___._ importancs in the t
Be, LeDiwas asked for ferthed|istad Hees

\ garding the visit of Les Harvey Osvald to tis Unban Consulate in Septenbdar,
| He had no further information ts offer about this bub yeportedthat Silvia
. had not returned to work at the Consulsts since her release fron arrest the
ob \ Second time. This was reported to HOS, (Ses MEKI 7615)

 

     
    
  

 

ne nn

 

 

 

* ta nee En ell .
™ nee. B apologized for Hot having been ablé to find dn the States amma -
i: |
ry
4, Se 9) reported on the following additional topice: ee
. 0) a, L-Vhad received as of that date only ona aca, wa .
ra

 

 

 

 

Le? ascribes this to the resentment caused among Mexican.
. officialde: by the strong note received fron Raul ROA, Cuban FOMIN, in regard

7 to the detention of Silvia Duran, Apparently word had been passed to Mexican
ay officials that thay were to give the Cubans the cold shoulder, ¢

/ .
be Roldolfo REYES, a Mexican eitizen who works in Cuba for the Cuban
io) Teatro Folklorico, was recently in tom, He said that Fidel CASTRO had recently
remarked that Cuba should use its theatrical group to earn dollars abroad, REYES
Lo said that a M, PLANCHON and six other Parisian enpresarlos connected with the po
‘ Teatro de las Naciones in Parig would bs travelling to Cuba in the near future =. -
_ to see what could be done about putting the Cuban show on the road,

a @ Co The well—lmow Mexican cartoonist RIUS (true name Eduardo DEL RIO) ;
i who was scheduled to be a guest of the Cuban governnent at the Anniversary
celebration on 2 Jan in Havana, did not at 3 Cuban visa, '
L RIUS would be HOvIFied directly by ©
separate letter of the reasons for this refusal, Sines RIUS in an ‘outstanding
propagandist for the Communist cause, L-9) could only conjecture that this
development was related to the) ROM Mo}e Pia’ andthenCuban Government's desire
to avoid antagonizing the Morlean goverment further, Another cartoonist, who
(7) also got-th

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
    

uses a name something like @ sane’ treatment, Z
: . » (ree cases £ :
ans d. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ hy ne Embassy: received acne gifts frou someone mi
3 inside the Czech Embassy at Pam ohana re .

. - woman Xo
e. An Australian newspaperfem named Julian or Julian’ ROBERTSON was

in tom on 23 Decenber, staying at Room ok ef the Gran Hotel Isabel, Isabel La
Catolica # 63. She was trying to get a visa to visit Cuba but waa ussuccessful

SECRET

'

 

  

     
