~

"CONFIDENTIAL

not indicate her employment as CIA in the affidavit. I learned ,
from Subject that she had already subsitted an affidavit and that
she had not r present employment therein, Subject
stated that Becursty Officer, FI Staff, had inforned
her that she could subsit the affidavit, but that she should
advise the Office of Security as a matter of information. Subject

 

described Kafor Conein es a very uns son-and mentioned
that Concin wants to prove that his wifa, Carmen, has established

residence elsewhere and will not live with him. He will try to
deny that he has resided in the Washington area, although she and
other persons, including a realty agent who sold their present
home to the Major and his wife, can testify to the contrary. Sub-
ject mentioned that Carmen Conein is now employed by the National
Security Agency.

6. I instructed Subject to contact this Office for appropriate
briefing in the event that she is called upon to appear in court
in connection with the Conein divorce matter. She agreed to do
this, but expressed the opinion that there would be no need for her
to appear in this case.

7. It should be noted that technically speaking Major Conein
should have-notified the Office of Security relative to his intention
to file suit for divorce; however, circumstances indicate that he
has not returned to Headquarters since completion of his recent
Far Eastern tour and that the divorce action apparently was initiated
within the past month or two during the Major's home leave. In view
of the fact treat Conein has natural cover as an Army officer so that
no publicity to CIA would result from his divorce action, and in
view of the probability that he will return to the Army this month
for a two year tour, it is believed that no further action is
necessary by this Branch. In view of the current interest by the
Clearance Branch, Personnel Security Division in regard to the
identity of Subject's spouse, it is suggested that this memorandum
be forwarded to the attention of John Myers of Clearance Branch.

John F. Meredith
0S/JFMimab
Distributions
Original & 2 - OS Files

1 = EAB File
1 = Chrono,

CORFIDENTIAL |
 

 

([tocetortatoats]

a : ri
(ees) EIDENTIAL ay

red

(Pd J

Chief, Faployee Activity Brancti/P3D/0S 3 October 1956

John F. Meredith

[rae ~ Clearance of Affidavit

1, Reference is nade to Subject's memorandum dated 17
September 1956 informing thia Office that she intended to submit
an affidavit in connection with a divorce suit instituted by :

Ms cien Gonein against his present wife, Mrs. Carmen Conein.
Subject attac a Copy of the substance of. the information which

she would provide in her affidavit in support of Mrs, Conein's
action in contesting the divorce.

2, It was ascertained from Mr. Farrison, Clearance Branch,
Personnel Security Division, that there is a current security
action concerning Subject under Fxecutive Order 10450, the ques~
tionable information which brought about F. 0. 10450 processing
being concerned with Subject's sister's associations, rather than
her own. .

- 3. A review of Major Conein's file (#5025) discloses that
Conein is a regular Army officer who has been assigned to this
Agency for a number of years. He is presently on home leave after
a Far Fastern tour and the Office of Security has been advised that
Coneir will probably be returned to the Army in October, 1956, in
order to serve two years to complete twenty years service. After
his Azzy retirement, there is a possibility that he will be con-
sidered for assignment to this Agency as a staff euployee. Conein's
file contains no record of his most recent marriage, i.e., his
Marrisge to Carmen Conein. It is noted that Mr. Myers, Clearance
Brare:, Personnel Security Division, has been instructed to develop
info=nation concerning Conein's present spouse inasmuch as it was
lea>zed indirectly that Conein is married at present.

ke 4 search of Office of Security indices fin the name of
Cam=ex Conein revealed that this person who is Major Conein's
wife, is the subject of File #28995 and was a CIA employee until
he= =esignation in October, 1951. Her file reflects that she
mas ai Major Conein in Germany in December, 1948.

5, On 28 September 1956 I contacted Subject intending to
adwtce her that there would be no security objection to her sub-
mitciog an affidavit in support of Mrs. Conein's contesting of

the ==vorce action brought by her husband provided that she does

CONFIDENTIAL
