74-0000

OR LY oar

 

a@ Subject may have, if any, is within the Bureau's jurisdiction
rather than that of this Agency.

i : Donovan E. Pratt
DC/CI/R&A

Distribution:.
Orig - DCI
1 - BDP
1 ~ Executive-Comptroller
1 + General Counsel
i - A/DCI
1 « Office of Security
1 - Director, Domestic Contact Service
1. C/Gi, DC/Cl
Fs RED/ Piles; 2016834272 -
1 - CI/R&A chrono
i - DP Garrison file

 

 

 

 
SEGRET

a. WOOD eaid that he was calling from a pay
phone in a Sears Rosbuck store in Dallas. He provided
a home telephone number, which we have net been able
to verify, and he believes that this telephone is bugged.

b. WOCD had found the telephone number of
Dr. Aldrich in the directory. His only previous call was
made in 1966, when he requested a recommendation for
& newepaper job for which he was applying. Dr. Aldrich
referred him to Personnel.

c. Subject told Dr. Aldrich on 27 December that
he had information which he urgently wanted te communicate
to CIA. He sounded upset.

14. C/CI/R&A advised Dr. Aldrich that if Subject telephoned
again, he should be told that hig call had been referred to the proper
authorities. Because of the information reperted above, there wag
@ possibility of provocation.

 

15. In the mid-afternoon of 28 December 1968 Subject again
telephoned Dr. Aldrich from am unknown location. He asked whether
someone would be in touch with him. Dr. Aldrich said that Subject’s
information had been relayed to thaze responsible and that he had no
information about future contact. Subject said that he was not trying
to invelve Dr. Aldrich but that he did have information to relay. He
sounded less frightened than on his previous call. He suggested that
whoever called or visited him should identify himself by referring to
information held in common {i.e., in 1951-1952). Out of a
job, WOOD had received two or three offers of employment but was not
sure of the identities of the prospective employers and feared
i provocation, presumably from Garrison's office. Apparently he believes
that the FBI is monitoring hie home telephone.

1
1
{
i
i

16. It is our intent to ask the Bureau to relay this information
to ite office in Dallas and to instruct an FBI representative to call
upen Subject and request elucidation, because auch information

&
| SEGRET

cfd

 
74-0000

 

Gentral Intelligence Agency instructor in the ‘clandestine
— ' @perations department'. He eaid he had found Mr. Boxley
while secking a ‘man whe had been with the intelligence
agency but still cared about the United States.'

“Mr. Bexley then gaid hia real name wae William C.
Wood; he was forty-eight years old, originally from Texas;
he had worked 10 years as a newspaper reporter -- last
on The Denver Post from 1948 to 1950; he had been with the
intelligence agency two to five years in the 1950's overseas
and in Washingten and had ‘used as many as 10 different
names in operations with the agency'."

16. The basic facte about WOOD were provided to the FBI by
GSCI 316/02725-68 of 15 July 1968. Additional relevant information
‘was requested. The Bureau replied on 18 July 1968 that the ‘Berkeley
Barb", published by the Underground Press' Syndicate, had stated in
its iaaue of 29 BDecamber 1967 -- 4 January 1968 that Bill BOXLEY,
an investigatar for Garrison, had verified a Mafia plot to kill Garrigon.

"AL. ‘The New Orleans Times-Picayune of 10 December 1968
carried the following:

 

"The office of Orleans Parish District Attorney Jim
Garrison Monday announced the remeval of a member of
the staff investigating the assasaination of President John
F. Kennedy because of alleged involvement with the CIA.

“ 'William Boxley was fired after evidence recently
developed by the District Attorney's staff indicated current
activity by him ae an eperative of the Central Intelligence
Agency, ' the office said.

"Boxley's initial service with the CIA was in Washington,
D. C., whare he served for years as an active agent for ‘what
was then termed the Department of Covert Activity’, according
te the office.

“The office said federal intelligence efforts to interfere
with the investigation into President Kennedy's assassination
have been occurring since the beginning of the inquiry'.''!

 

 
74-0000

iz. The New Orleans Times-Picayune of 12 December 1968
included the fellowing item:
“Garrison also commented on William Bexley,
on investigator he fired on Menday because, Garrison
said, he was an operative of the Central Intelligence
Agency.

" ‘He wae not only a CLA agent,‘ said the DA, ' but
he waa one on a very high level’. Asked what proof his
; office developed, Garrison said it concerned material
that Boxley had put in written form. .

“Bexley, contacted in Austin, Tex., told the
Times-Picayune on Wednesday that he has not been
involved with the CIA or any federal agency since 1952.

"He said he believed Garrison ‘has been genuinsly

misled’ about hie CIA involvement, adding: ‘Lam sure

| he believes aa strongly in thia (his alleged CIA involvement}

| ae he once believed in me." Baxley eald he would cooperate

a, ¢ompletely with Garrieon's office in returning to it material
he still has in his possession. ‘

 

Boxley said the only written material he ever provided
Garrison's office was a description of how various intelligence
agencics operate.

Bouley said he wae 'really ead! over his firing by
Garrison, but added that he believed no one could convince
Garrison that he was not an agent of the CIA."

Cc. Current Developments

13. On 27 December 1968 Dr. Stephen Aldrich of DD/S and T
infarmed the Office of Security that at 1600 hours on 27 December he
had received a telephone call from Subject, whe had been his subordinate
FY CUR&A called Dr. Aldrich, who supplied the following
additional information:

 

!
|
1
i

 

Yo
 

 

7

J

SECRET

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:
William Clarens WOOD Jr., alias William BOXLEY,
20) -834272

Reference: Cl/R&A Memorandum No. 9, Subject: Garrigon
and the Kennedy Assasaination, 3 June 1968, paragraph 19c

A. Summary

William Clarens WOOD Jr. was employed by CIA as a contract
instructor in clandestine operations fram March 1951 when he arrived
until March 1952, when he had a nervous breakdown resulting

from family problems and alcoholism. Sent back te Headquarters,

he served as an instructor in OTR from May 1952 te January 1953,
when his resignation was requested, again because of heavy drinking.
During or before July 1966 Garrison, who knew that WOOD had been a
CIA employee, hired him az an investigator assigned to Garrison's

“investigation of the Kennedy assassination. In December 1968, however,

Garrison's office announced that WOOD had heen fired because it had been
ascertained that he was then active as a CIA “operative”. Later in 13-22
December WOOD made two telephone calle to his former chief

requesting contact and instructions. The case is being referred to the FBI.

B. Summary of Earlier Evente

1. William Clarens WOOD Jr., born 17 August 1920 in Shreveport,
Leulsiana, was approved in November 1944 fer overseas employment
by OSS in an assignment as a newspaperman (printing chief in a Central
Pacific operation). This approval wae withdrawn on 23 December 1944,
however, because of non-concurrence by OG/AAF. He was then assigned
te combat infantry duty in the Southwest Pacific: he was not used by O88.
In February 1945 he visited the Honolulu Office of O88 and claimed that

GROUP ¢
sa front autematic|
jwagrading asd
ecune i deeieattete

 
 

([tostotoe-1009] - wa ok “85 69-0016
O -UNCLASSIFIED CT ou onty (] CON[ _wTIAL SECRET
, : ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

      
 
 

By

 

 

SUBJECT: (Optional)

 

FROM: EXTENSION | NO.

Raymond G. Rocca
C/CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building}

 

 

OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

INITIALS fo whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED

file flare,

hen ee

 

a.
General Counsel

7bD01 Oye, LGoO1L

 

 

OGC SUBJECT:

 

KENNEDY ASSASSINATICN
GARRISON

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
   

  

   
 

  

  

610 “s.ieres

  

SECRET — []. CONFIDENTIAL [7] {ATFRMALY, = [7]_UUNCLASSIFIED
74-0000

 

 

ad been. recruited by OSS while he waa attending infantry school
. fort Remning in Octeber 1944. He stated that his services were to
been used to originate and conduct radio programs in the CBI

th #, that he had heen investigated by Dunn and Bradstreet, and that
in the seurse of a long dietance telephone call to the OSS Personnel
Procurement Gfifice he had been told that OSS could not use him at that
time but that he shovid keep in touch. The interviewing officer in
Honolulu commented in hig report to Security Oifleer, OSS Headquarters,
that the Bunn and Bradstreet leak should be noted and that WOOD
certainly knew more about O86 than any other potential recruit whom the
interviewer had ever seen.

% Gn 13 December 1956 Subject wae given a Covert Security
Clearance for use as a staff agent and was agsigned «6 Chief
Instructor of Clandestine Operations. He arrived at his post in March
1951, and two months later hia dependents were isgued travel clearances
te join him. In March 1952 he suffered a nervous breakdown and was
returned te Agency Headquarters for medical observation. The medical
conclusion was that the breakdown had resultad from family troubles and
overindulgence in alcohol. In May 1952 WOOD was assigned to OTR
as an instructor in the Operations Course. Im Octeber 1952 hie status
was converted te that of a staff employee, and he was assigned to OTR

88 a GGoll instructor.

3. In December 1982 an Agency guard fousd WOOD lying on a
sidewalk near Temporary Eye Building. He wae bleeding from the
mouth. There was no evidence of foul play. At his own request he was
taken te Emergency Hospital. Im January 1953 he failed to repert for
duty. Agency represematives went to his residence, the Lafayette Hotel,
and found him under the influence of alcohol.. He was requested te report
fox duty the next day, but the hotel doctor had him removed to Gallinger
Hospital because of continued intoxication. Subject's resignation was
requested on 19 January 1953 and became effective 27 January 1953.

4. On Li July 1953 Subject telephoned the Security Office from
Dallas, Texas. He said that he would underga braim surgery on 13 July
at Baylor Hospital, Dallas. He asked that an Agency representative
be present. Arrangements were made to ensure that anything WOOD
said under anaesthesia would remain confidential, WOOD was given
sedium pentothol, but no aurgery (except a spinal tap) was performed.
In hie hospital room, to which he had been returned from the operating
room, WOOD said that he had served overseas with the CIA and had
 

 

py

en nn

seen many people killed. "The CIA are a bunch of dirty cut-threats,
and I woulda't be a bit surprised lf they sent one of theiy men to cut
mine. They think they are smart, but one of these daysin the near
future I will show them who {a the smartest. They have about 100
G8-14's walking around with their heads shaped Uke eggs... . I have
been a failure but after I get well I am going to go back to acheol and
get my degree and fight the CIA with everything that I can, "

5. A report of 30 April 1957 from the FBI office in Dallas, Texas,
noted that Subject had telephoned from Midland, Texas, te a Chinese
intelligence officer in Formosa. WOOD said that he had formerly heen
empleyed by the CIA. He offered to halp the officer "with things I know".
He then telephoned Lubbock, Texas, and spoke to a person believed to
be his wife. He told her that he had epoken with Chiang Kal-Chek's chief
of intelligence and that "if thie thing goes through", she and the baby
would receive from $706 to $1000 @ month.

6. In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service in Dallas
requested clearance to use Subject and reported that he had nat had a
drink in nine and a half years. On 3 March 1967 derogatory FBI informa-
tion and the information that WOOD was again drinking heavily were
forwarded te the DCS, which then dropped hire as a potential source,

  

7. On 18 January 1968 Ron OSTROW of the Los Angeles Times
ealled the A/DCI and relayed a Los Angeles query about a former CIA
agent, William BOXLEY, who was an investigator for Jim Garrison.
The A/DCI replied, “ne comment."

ob
8. In April 1968(Paul ROTHERMEL, | security officer for Hent
Oll Company, Texas, said thet he had been visited by a Bill WOOD who
was conducting investigations in Dallas for Jim Garrison under the aliec

of Bi BOXLEY. WOOD was making inquiries about the CIA and its

operations. It was further reported that WOOD was well known in
Houston and that his conection with Garrison was no secret.

9. Oa 12 July 1968 the New York Times (p. C35) carried an article
headlined "Garrison Claims Foreiga Spy Link", The article includes
the following:

"Over the telephone, Mr. Garrison ‘also introduced an
investigator for his office, Bill Boxley, as a former
