14-00000

SECRET Sea

-5-.

 

LIEMPTY-~9, supplies extremely worthwhile information.” . !
pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target
employees, He accomplishes this objective by careful .
' observation and analysis. LICALLA also maintains a daily
attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA
coverage of the target, both photographic and physical . ae
observations, enables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK _ i
personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter- si
espionage effort.

2, “To collect operational information.and identify operational leads.
pertaining to Station targets of opportunity,"" The LIENTRAP operation,
handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective, It .

has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform . ft
pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities, The , |
cases listed below are cited as examples: 7

a, In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ, Sanchez (see L A, 3,a, above) oo
LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his |
Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters _ |
provided photographs, left no doubt that GONZALEZ was the
subject of interest to Headquarters,

 

b,. LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon, | :
a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent So,
supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext ;
investigation of the residents of an apart ment building where ~
CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the
results of the” investigati ion with excellent photographs of the
‘subject,

‘3. "To provide operational support to Station operations, -i.e., rent...
hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances. " ce |
- GERENDBE .is-used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for. - | |;
' other Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive. j | ,
area- knowledge and. personal operational capabilities combine to make |
bim an extremely valuable Station asset for such support. activities,
GERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many
Station operations requiring them.

 

  

SECRET Bree
14-00000

 

| sen Sh ,
-6-

4, It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time .
expended on this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and
should be continued in view of the quality and T quantity of operational

information produced, -

Simon D, CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation to project
objectives) :

1, "To collect operational information and to identify operational leads
pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Station targets of opportunity,"
During this project year the LERSEY surveillance team under the
direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support

_ efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances, Some —

examples. of the team's work are listed below:

 

 

 

a, is a Guatemalan.
Communist which the team had under surveillance from

_November 1959 to April 1960. The surveillance, together
with information acquired from other sources, eventually.
resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt on TISCHLER,

b, isa”
Dominican of interest to the Station, The CHERSEY team

devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting . ; .
information on subject through physical surveillance, a

 

 

 

 

 

c, | was the -

subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960.
was later deported f from Mexico through the efforts

of LITEMPO- -2.

 

d. CLACKETT and the LIJIERSEY team performed numerous.
. pretext investigations on Station targets of opportunity and on —
three separate occasions during the project year served as ©
_-@ counter-surveillance escort for Station officers in other
- _ Operations, .

 

2, GLACKETT,. just: prior to his resignation in August 1960, spent _
about five weeks giving tradecraft and operational skills training to _
LITEA-1, Although not specifically covered by the project objectives,
this ability on CLACKETT's part is considered a significant con-
tribution to the Station's support efforts.

SECRET Les

 

 
   
14-00000

 

. c. LICALLA ~ As reported i in previous correspondence, the

os,
_—
a

SECRET Gao
- 4-

This information is particularly useful in keeping track of
LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of ~

_vigitors.to-the installation, Also, LIMITED maintainsa-~ —s--
summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees ona daily __

basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the .
presence or absence of an employee on any given day, ~
Finally, one other significant service is performed by this
base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance
team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity.
LIMITED's photographic coverage is. still concentrated on
visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK .

installation, A recent example of the base’s contributions to.

Station efforts is the case of Joseph Ralph MAURI, In this
case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that. an American might visit

the LIMERICK target on a certain day. ‘The base was alerted -

to dispatch the radio-controlled surveillance team on any .

. person appearing to be an American, The results of this

assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other ,

- cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs,
~ which when compared with photographs provided by Head-

quarters, left no question as to MAURI's identity.

b, LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine:

_ photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year.

In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly
reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives. LILYRIC
also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the
license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the’

LIMERICK installation. LULYRIC photographs also are con-

centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees,
It should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic

- coverage during the hours from daylight to 1400 hours each» ~
‘day.of the week except Sunday, The LIMITED base maintains -
. photographic coverage from 1400. Ahours to darkness. each day vos
except Sunday, — we ae

LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational
information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK
employees and their families. Also, the base operator,

SECRET eee

 

  
14-00000

 

GONZALEZ was finally identified and his

Mexico City home md business addresses: were
ascertained. See HMMA~15626, 9 September 1960,
for further details on this cases :

- be The preliminary investigative work on.a .
KUSODA case of priority interest was conducted
by SCANTLING. During this investigation it
was necessary for SCANTLING to travel to :
Aquascalientes, Guanajuato md Minatitlan to
obtain the information required by Headquarters.
See the attachments to HMMT-1416, 20 May 1960,
for the results of the investigation.

4, In addition to his contributions to the above. objec=
tives, SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support
requirements of the Station. For example, SCANTLING
handled several of Raymond H, GERENDE's (ps) operations
while the latter was away from Mexico City. during August
and September 1960. Also, SCANTELING has been managing
the LIJERSEY surveillance team since the departure of ~
Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960. It is hoped that
SCANTLING canbe relieved of this assignment as soon
as the LITEMPO project is approved. SCANTLING has also —
been used to spot and rent safe houses for various -
Station operations, a valuable operational. support
services ae

Se As stated in the preceeding Request for Project oe
Renewal, al though SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives
can never be completely fulfilled, it is the Station's
opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable
contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically
and to other Station activities in generd. SCANTLING's.
production, measured against monetary expenditures, ;
case officer time and other intangible factors, unques=—
ticnably justifies his continuation as an integral part
_of Project LIEMPTY. ;

“Be Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed 3 in relation. to Project :

_ Objectives):

ole: "79 collect’ operational - information ‘pertaining to: —
_ . GIMERICK persomel and physical facilities through use
- of photographic base houses." Together with their.
“extensive photographic: coverage of “the: “LIMERICK take +7

“the photographic ‘pases also contribute other: types’ of.

operational information:

   

  

@ LIMITED ~ This base compiles daily logs .
indicating ell arrivals, demrtures and,
where possible, identities of every person
visiting or working at the LIMERICK target.

 

 
14-00000

‘SECRET/ ga
REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY
(For' the Purpose of Project Renewal)

To CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND FRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. ‘SCANTLING Segment (adecussed in relation BS
to project objectives): . cee, :

1. “To collect operational information per=
taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical ~
facilities." SCANTLING has continued (See the
last Project Review forwarded as an attachment .-
to HMMA~14093, 13 November. 1959) to provide
_worthwhile and significant information per-
‘taining to the above objective. There follow

a few examples of SCANTLING's production:

a. A detailed casing of ‘the LIMERICK ; |
‘electrical power supply was forwarded : oo {
to Headquarters as an attachment to ~ . ;
HMMA—14496, 12 February 1960. The pro~
duction of this type of operational
information, which takes several weeks
to compile accurately, illustrates the .
. unusual talents possessed by SCANTLING
together with his valuable contributions
to the Station's operational information
collection effort. ,

‘be SCANTLING has been used frequently i
to follow up leads produced by LIFEAT/
LIMERICK (now produced by LIENVOY). For
example, in May 1960, LIFEAT indicated
that the LIMERICK target was having con— :
siderable contact with an AGENCIA ROBLES oe ok
concerning the handling of incoming and. . 8.
outgoing shipments. By discreet investi~ . :
. gation, SCANTLING was able to provide.the © 2 0 .e i ei
Station with additional pertinent information yoo
about the address, owner and type of business
engaged in by the firm. Such information. —
then becomes readily available for explo
Sshould: a- LIMERICK shipment-of particular
“interest come to the attention of’ the “Station, ~

 

 
 

itation:

   
 

 

c. SCANTLING is the Station's primary .
investigative asset for keeping track of
current residence addressees of LIMERICK ; 7
personnel, The Station considers it important ; :
from the counterespionage standpoint to main- ;

tain information on the location of all

 

SO-6- 7s |
14-00000

 

LIMERICK residences. In addition, specific
targets are continually considered for LICOOL
installations, A recent example of SCANTLING's oy
efforts in this cornection would be the spot~. Ce :
ting and acquisition of the LIMOTOR base in i
the same apartment building with LITALON =l. Soe
Contributiona.of this type operational informa~ 2 9: }
--bion are quite time consuming due to. the . 0.0: ud
necessity for checking out several apartments ES
that a LIMERICK individual may initially be~ ce oo
considering as a residence.

 

2- “To collect operational information pertaining to
other targets of opportunity, foreign official installa
tions and personnel of intelligence interest operating .
in Mexico." As indicated below, SCANTLING is also ; |
extremely useful for collecting information on targets . |
other than LIMERICK:

_ @& In March 1960 SCANTLING was instrumental,
- in locating property .adjacent to the LITABBY . be
installation which the Station has since : od
rented in anticipation of initiating photo-~ ; :
graphic and technical operations, SCANTLING
was able to accomplish this assignment only
after a thorough casing and pretext investi- Lo
gations of the several pieces of property ae pe
, appropriate. for such operations. — i ee wee

be SCANTLING is also used to follow up , ; i

sensitive leads in. connection with LIFEAT . ... |. te.

and LIENVOY production from LITABBY and .

sister targets (See example as to type
under I,A,l, b and e¢ above). ood

e. SCANTLING was used as an investigative
asset to determine the local address and ; . . i
_ exact employment of Gordon William GROVES ; oo
' (201--220025), a counterespionage case of ®
interest to Headquarters and ODEN VY. : i

 

. Be ao exploit operational leads ‘through recruitments
debriefings, and surveillances.". As examples of :
SCANTLING's contribution to this objective, the

. following cases are iisteds : oo

 
 

      

° ‘SCANTLING devoted a considerable amount f
of time to his attempts to locate Cesar a ; :
GONZALEZ Sanchez, a known agent of a Com -
munist Country. He followed varioue leads |
on GONZALEZ from March to August 1960 before |

pe yor T
|

 

  
 

CRYPTONYM: LIEMPTY HEADQUARTERS CASE OFFIGER:
F
OPERATING DIVISION: Wi Charlotte L, Zehrung..
FIELD STATION: Mexico City _ ROOM NO.: 1015 Barton Hall
: : : EXTENSION: 2555/3162 :
TARGET AREA: Mexico DATE: 13 December 1960

1, It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be renewed for the
period 1 December 1960 through 30 November 1961 for a total of .
$53,000; $31,900 for fiscal year 1961 and $21,100 for fiscal year
1962, The LIEMPTY Project was programmed for $85,000, During the
past project year, approximately $59,880 was ebligated, |

2. This Project provides operational support to the Station
and is not a source of positive inteliigence, Examples of opera»
tional data developed through this project are given in paragraph I
of the attached Station Review of Project LIEMPTY, There have been
no disseminations made at Headquarters of intelligence produced
through LIEMPTY,

3, The only training provided LIEMPTY personnel during the
period under review was given to Raymond H, GERENDE, He is being given

training in basic flaps and seals techniques so that the Station will _

have a trained agent outside the Station who will be able to provide
this service if required, No further training for GERENDE or any of
the other LIEMPTY agents is being cohtemplated for the coming year.

4, Attached for the information of the Staffs is a dispatch

-Erom the Station (CHMMA=-14793). dated 8 April 1960 which answers -the :

questions raised at the time of the last renewal,

5, With reference to Paragraph VIL, Emergency Condition,
contained in the attached Project Review, the Mexican desk has. on

‘record in the permanent file of Raymond H, GERENDE and Oliver G,

SCANTLING, the details of emergency recontact instructions which
have been agreed upon between the Station and each Agent,  -

 

 

 

 

 
104-40052-10104 . : a
2 _— - oe CLASSIFICATION “anaes SYMBOL AND NO-

DISPATCH | - — | ENiMA- 15979

TO + Chief, WH Division

 

 

 

 

 

FROM
: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIED : . oo INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
__7 Renewal of Project ; BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

 

 

 

 

Attached are the requisite number of copies of the Request for Renewal

Pa

|
of Project LIEMPTY, . _ |

16 November 1960

Attachment :
As stated above. (Even pages forwarded herewith)
(Odd pages under separate cover) ©
‘Distribution: -
3- WHD (with five copies of attachment) a bo.
- Files (with one copy of attachment) he

 

 

‘The folios sing ae
authorized:

  
    
     
 

 

 

 

. a Coordinate :
coe opriate. :

  

5 2233

f
, ag yy ,
& at % ne, “ soy ge
. i) vty SG whe 7 Ye fe .
USE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSIFICATION PAGENO?
oe (J
inten Ae OBSOLETE. SECRET ape. CONTINUED

 

(arpieaperema tre meee erent ees = ene ne a eg et eet ne
14-00000

oN

 

ae Qee

6. It is requested that the LLEMPTY Project be renewed on the
basis of the attached Project Review,

     

“COORDINATION: dll

Ned P, Holman, AC/WE/S

C.w. Gabon.

Gc, W. Anderson, WHD Proj,. Officer

 

Approved for Transmittal :

ATTACHMENTS: (4)
Review of Project LIEMPTY
Copy of HMMA=14793

. Form 680
Folder with past renewals

  

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET I

  
 

sli
“CRYPTONYM LIEMPTY _ FIELD CASE OPFICER“Quinton N. OUSLER

STATION Mexico City CHIEF OF STATION Milles het he

“The attached project action is presented for approval for the
“period i December 1960 through 30 November 1961.

 

 
   

 

ay

8 ber a oe PRL ,

   
