   

 

MOMORALUOM PCR THE ROCORD

SUMLCT: Unlk by Ernesto Betancourt at the Cooperative Porud.

1. This fa a report fro: semry of the highlights of the tal. given
by Dr. Erncety Betancourt, Wednesday nicht, 26 Ceptender 1:62, end of the
“ question and answer pertod following it, at the Cooperative Fors is

Washington, Dee

2. Or, Betancourt wns announced as the political advieer of Stercito |
Libertador de Cuba, “an orgnnization of young Cuban allitary leaders fa ,
exile.” Currently his full tine occupation was stated as that of a
coordinator in the Departoent of Economic Affairs of the Organisation of
American States (G43). In the early days of the Castro regire ue had been
&m enthusiastic "Fidelista” and had served as Director of tie Central Bank

. of Gus (pre Che Guevarra) and as one of Castro's first repreeentatives
ja the U. 5. He soon becane disenchented, defected and becans a leader

fa. the” anticCastro movement.

% Baced on rental notes of Betancourt's speech (about 40 ninutes)
and of his enawers given to questions from the audience (a typical,
éiatinguished cross-section grow found at the Forum), the. folloviag
appenred to be the met significant statenontas

a, There are no “easy” ansvers to the Cuban problea
which bas becone socreasingly complex.

b. The singly cost important Soviet objective in
“taking over” Cuba isto. discredit the U. 8.
by alternately deaonstrating its "weakness®
and ite “wickedness.” By showing that the U.6.
ie willicg to. recain supine even in the face of a
ailitary-aid “presence” in Cuba, the Soviets
believe they can score a psychological victory which
will impress other Latin American countries and
perhapa other developing aress in which the U, 8,
has. an interest. -Ginultaneoualy the Communists
continue to éceiet the: "gringoes” oa craas,
money-seeking ioperialists:vho vant to “do in*
poor little Cube. This creation of an unfavorable
image of. the U. 8, is far more important to the
 Kroulin thas any other reason for their now large
Cuban effort. Eves the possible uce of Cuba as
a missile base is of secondary importance, |

c. As for making Cuba a Communist “showcase”
"Betancourt believes the Soviets have no such
hope or eveo intention. - They do however intend
7 to use Cuba as the CP "headquarters" for Lotin
. America and have ‘do fact been doing so for som

tine.

d. The attecpted invasion was a disaster all arouud -
militarily, politically and ideologically. Anong
other causes. of thie failure waa CIA's “kidnapping”
of the Revolutionary Council eo that any effective
anti-Castro leadership was rendered poverless,

 

Len were

 
[ng 40174-1006

of

 

 

 

. a a

TRANSMITTAL stun
TA i

   
     

an sending other copies as iniicated.

.) aball be glad ot ary thas you
wiah to make gimtlar Reports on Forus
Pretaatatios

      

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

OE is aie tiga Ugh et Be ume Ee

 

i
 

Talk by ©

 

 

2 Octuter Ly62

rnesto Betancourt at ‘the Cooperative Foruae

ft.

Be

he

The “bunsling” of the foveston was le part due to
the “escmuisieations void" that existed so far as
getting anti-Castro informtion threush to the
Cubes people. In the meantime Castro had full |
ecootrel over his internal communications and
“aaturated” ¢he air vaves with pro-regine
prepaganda concerning the iovasion,

Castro is still the real “bogs” in Cuba oven”
thous he is surrounded. by Communists and ts
generally obedient to Moscow's orders.. ‘The
Krealin has not pushed him too far - io fast
they have to. some inatances pulled hin back
for they feel that ‘he has a tendency to be
reckless, For instance, the Goviete did not
really vant hin to break with the U. 8. and
would have wanted him to be a clever "Marxist™
tactician. The Kremlin fs smart enough to
realize, hovever, that if Castro were elininated
hie entire regime would collapses. 60 while -
dictating to hin-in certain respects, they also
have %2 give hin leeway. In other words the
Commaists are “using” Castro but at the sane
tine are being used by him for the achieverant
of his own ego-power objectives, °

Economic conditions in Cuba ere really very bad.
In the general disarray of the Cubsu econogy,
asriculture is faring worst cf all. For the
first tine in Cuban history, food is beisg
soverely rationed. Also for the first time
the susar crop has not been planted this year,
due to the ceneral disorder and the icability
to provide inceatives for the sugar plantation
pecos. Goviet economic aid is insufficent thus
far to have any visible effect in lifting the
economy, The Soviets are apparently giving
much more military than economic aid.

" Betancourt is opposed to ailitary intervention

by U. S. oa general principles but feels that:
if. the U, 6. did decide to intervene. it would
be far more justified in the eyes cf Latin-

Azerica than vould have been the cease before

“. the Soviets decided to dotervene militarily.

4.

Que of the best propaganda targets froa the U.S,
point of view is the Castro militia. According

to Betaccourt the militiamen are “restive” about
the Commaist corination of Cuba. A large number
of these ueo were ardent rebels but not Comrunista.
They fought with Castro agninst the Batista dictatore
ship. bus vot in order to establish a Communist
regise, nor even tc make Cuba a “socialist™ state. |

 

 
 

coe ag

Cn Faw Bek

-3-

) Cctober loc2

Talx dy Exnesta Betancourt at the Cooperative Forum,

Theae allittaman vould be quch sore reaponsive
to U. 8S. appeale if they did not feel that in
the event of anti-Castro take crer they would be
Uiquidated. They feal that the U. 3. and rebsl
Propaganda has depicted thea all as major
@uenies and inmeciate. targets for destruction.
Betancourt deliaves we should Proceod to correct

this propaganda error at ouce..

de Betancourt feels that the OAS could be much more
- 9“. effective than it has bean so far if only ag a

‘forum for airing the truth about the Castro
‘wegime and for hardening the attitudes of the
reat. of Latin America toward the expansion of ~
Soviet satellites in the western heniephere.
Betancourt believes that the overt Soviet
intervention in Cuba has Jarred the latis.
Azericane for more than the faet of the -
triuoph of Comunisa, per se, ia that country.

 

Distridutiont :
| . Original - Richard -Helas, DIP
i « De. Ray Kitne

 

z
Le

l= Mr
1 - cs
081/180/C8D/ALRrapoh (7520) ~ 9 october isée

  
