Se ~ SECRET. oe
. EVES ONLY

14. In 1958-59, Maheu was used by the FE Division in two
sensitive operations targeted against Sukarne. Mr. Allen Dulles
was aware and approved of these operations, Mr. Joseph Smith
who was then Chief/PMI, {s knowledgeable of the actions. -

18, While nene of our interests in Maheu relate to wire-
tapping, it is evident that the extensive and diversified use of him
makes us vulnerable to exploitation should he be interrogated in
depth regarding his activities.

16, Mr, Mahev is maintaining a cooperative. attitude and
has promised te do all in his power to protect the Agency from
embarrassment or cornpromise,

 
74-0000

 

es SEBRET. <
EYES ONLY

favor of Onassie in their own private battle. It was this mutual
concern of the United States and Niarchus that set the stage for

a joint venture. Niarchus supplied the money, personnel, and
documents; the Agency furnished the communications, courier
facilities, and direction in the form of our Commo channel, pouch
system, and the NEA Division's expertise and guidance.

S. Spyridon Catapodis, a Greek Broker, who had an ax to
grind against Onassis asa result of being manipulated out of a
handsome commission he believed due him for his intercession

with certain Saudi officials to secure oil rights for Onassis, spear-—

headed a campaign to publicize Onaseis' high-handed methods of
operation. This triggered off all sorts of international litigations
which erupted into suits and countersuits. by all. parties concerned,

_ Of particular note was the case of Catapodis va. Onassis, which

suit was filed in New York State. .While Niarchus was being exame-
ined before trial by Onassia' attorney, he claimed Government
privilege in answering certain questions, This tact was challenged
by the attorney and pursued to the point that eventually it was ree
corded in the briefs filed by both the plaintiff and the defendent that
CIA was, in fact, the Government agency of interest. Close coor-
dination was maintained during this period with Justice and State.
At our request a representative of the U. 5. Attorney's Office in
New York monitored all of the Hearings. Mr. Houston is intimately
familiar with the actions in this case, and copies of his memoranda
pertinent to it are contained in his files.

_ 6. The Security file on Subject contains a Covert Security
Clearance issued 16 Angust 1954 at the request of NE/Z, Att: -
William Miller, for Maheu's use on Project TWIXT. Other inter-
ested DD/P personnel were identified as William F.:Rowland, :

 

 

Actine Chief NIA “on George Prugsing; Walter Snowden} and

 

 

os =
7. Mr. Maheu was contacted to determine whether the Com-

mittee had been in touch with him, He stated he was not aware of -

their interest in him. When the Taggart conversation was men-
tioned, he promptly replied that it must be the Onassis operation
they are looking into. He recalled that he had Onassis’ New York
office "covered"! sometime during the period. John Frank, a

EVES OSLY
CECRET
 

te SER

: EVES ONLY

7 June 1966
SUBJECT: MAHEU, Robert A.

1, Robert A. Mabeu, a personnel relations executive and
former F.B.1. Agent, has been utilized by the Office of Security
on many sensitive assignments since the early fifties. He hae
also on several occasions been cleared for use by the DD/P in
various capacities. He does business as Robert A.. Maheu, Assoe
ciates, and maintains offices in Washington, D.C.,; and Los
Angeles, California, where he is now residing.

2, It has come to our attention that the Senate Subcommittee
investigating wiretapping activities (Long Committee) has expressed
considerable interest in Maheu. He has never been asked to per-
form any technical surveillance on our behalf.

3. The first inkling we had that the Long Committee was
interested in Maheu came to our attention through the OGC.
Mr. Lawrence Houston advised that Walter Yeagley, Assistant
Attorney General, Internal Security Division, had casually mentioned
to him that he had been advised by Raymond A. Taggart, an AID
6 employee, that he may be called upon to testify before the Long
Committee regarding his activities while employed by Maheu (1954-55).

4, The only significant association the Agency had with Maheu .
during that period involved the struggle between two Greek industrial
giants, Stavros Niarchus and Aristottle Onassis. Maheu had been
retained as a trouble shooter for Niarchus. Onassis had just cone
cluded a pact with King Saud which would allow him to control approxi-
mately 90 percent of the ofl shiprnents out of Saudi Arabia. In con-
sumating the deal, he allegedly employed every trick in the book.

His achievement caused much consternation among the British,
German, and American interests. Niarchus also realized ae a
result of this the balance of power and influence weighed heavily in

    

oat
pun

Excluded trom aut
dev

EVES GHLY
| SECRET

omstic
ad
“Itiestion

   
   

 
14-00000

 

ce  OSEORET ee
. “BIES ONLY

former staff employee, and then a private investigator, was an-
gaged to arrange for the coverage. Maheu could only identify the
technician by the name.of Leon. Presumably, this coverage was
done as a routine technique to keep the Niarchus interests informed .
on Onassis! movements. This was not initiated at the request of
any Agency component so far as our records indicate.

8. Subsequently, Maheu advised he had received a message
from one of the Committee's attorneys named Homme who wanted --
to fly out to talk with him. Mabeu fended him off by saying he wae
tled up for the next several days. He then contacted his attorney,
Edward P. Morgan, of Washington, D. C., and it was decided that
Morgan would meet him im St. Louis on 274 May for a conference.

'9. On Thursday morning, 26 May, Maheu called te advise
that he was at the Madison Hotel, Washington, D. C., and was
anxious to talk with us. At his request it was arranged to have
Colonel Edwards accompany a member of this office to meet with
him. :

_ 10. Maheu opened the conversation by announcing that he had
been selected to be the star performer on a planned TV hearing —
which is echeduled to open within the next few weeks. He went on
to give the basis for this staternent in the following detail.

When he first talked te Ed Morgan of the possibility
of his being subpoenaed, Morgan assured him that he
had nothing to be concerned about inasmuch as he was
a very close friend of Senator Long's personal attorney
who had considerable influence upon the Senator, The
lawyer resides in St, Louis, and he suggested that they
beth go out and solicit hia assistance. After the presen»
tation of the facts, all three flew to Washington where
the lawyer secured an appointment with the Senator.
Mr. Bernard Fensterwald was in attendance at the
meeting. He identified himself as the Chief Attorney
for the Committee, According to Maheu, Fensterwald
made it clear that Maheu was their ace in the hole and
without him the Hearings would have no appeal. He
implied that Maheu's clients and their opposition added
3400009

“fey

oe SECRET
+ BYES ONLY

é
up to a very attractive package. Such headliners
as Niarchus, Onassis, Dave McDonald, and Howard
Hughes are hard to come by. Fensterwald further
referred to Maheu as the type who employed the
technique of cutting the Government in just enough
on his touchy operations to permit him to hide behind
their akirts if he were caught. It is the opinion of
the lawyer that, unless the Senator can be convinced
to the contrary, he will proceed with plans on schedule.

11, Maheu's most active account and, at this time, almost
exclusive client is Howard Hughes. In the past he did considerable
work for Dave McDonald, former president of the United Steel
Workers, 5o far as this office knows, the Agency never had any
interest in elther of these clients. However,. it should be noted that
the IO Division was granted a Covert Security Approval on 4 June
1959 to approach Maheu and advise him of the Agency's interest in
international labor. .Maheu claims he never became involved in any
"bugging" operation for sither of these accounts.

12, tt is not believed that Maheu wants or expects us to front
for him in'the Onagsis tap matter. As mentioned previously, to our
knowledge this was not Agency sponsored. However, if exploited, .
it would probably eventually lead to exposing our part in the Onassis /
Niarchus feud. As it {# a matter ef court record, it could not be
denied nor buried. Even though the details might be protected by
a declaration that it involved clasaified operational information, it
would set up a field day for the press and critics of the Agency. :

13. Mr. Maheu is presently furnishing cover for a DODS staff .
agent in his Washington, D. C., office. In this connection, two of
Maheu's employees have been cleared and witting. Other clearance
actions noted were: CSA granted FI/Plans, Cover Division on _

30 August 1954 for use under LPHIDDEN; CSA issued to NE_Division
on 7 October 1959 for Maheu's use in the United States

 

s he may be employed by/ fo mars
blic relations in the United States. 2

EicS ONLY
SEGRET
