74-00000

3. At the present time th®’New York District Attorney is
not contemplating prosecution o las the information
uncovered to date relates contacts with Itkin and
apparently there are no specific criminal charges against

 
 
 

 

Sergeant Graf stated tha had_ corresponded
wl tkin, and it was assumed that It an have met

 

 

personally whe has been in this country, oS R

09 4. Mr. Newman stated that they had sent questions to
fof ft Interpol which have been answered. Mr. Newman
s e FB ised him that the FBI had previously
had an interest of Mr. Newman did_not state whether
the FBI had advis CIA's interest i: 93 Mr. Newman
asked me whether we would be willing to quéstié ion other

items that they had uncovered. I stated that this poséd a real
problem and I was not able to give them an answer_at that time.

 

 
 
 
  

I was concerned about certain conflicts in the event 03
answers invol i ation which could incriminate him. It
might be tha ould consider he had immunity from

prosecution when answéring questions put forth by CIA,

 

5. I did not aeserive| relationship to CIA other than
to state he had in fact received some i rom us and did
report to us. I intended to infer tha{ free an informant
in a similar capacity to that which ItkinYenjoyed earlier.

6. It should be noted that all parties to the Itkin case are
talking to each other. Mr. Newman said two days before I called

on the phone the ised him that CIA would discuss our
relationship with! with him. Later that day in Mr.
Morgenthau's offrce; e I met Itkin, FBI Agent Donovan

commented that he heard I had a good meeting with Newman,
It is not beyond belief that the FBI told Itkin that I had seen
Newman aboot

: Co

HN A. GREANE
Oe istant General Counsel

ce: ‘Gos fScLOBE
- “ C/CI/REA
 

[toe t0107-10134

a

off

 

OGC 69-0249

10 February 1969

 

 

 

RETuy
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Background (oath,
c Do Not Reproduce”
SUBJECT: |
= OF

. Qo

1. w@After meeting with Mr. Warner, Mr. ne others
from the @PGLOBE staff, L telephoned Mr. Leonar ewman, Chief
of the Rackets Section, New York County District Attorney's office,
on Thursday, 6 February, and stated that I wanted to discuss a
matter not directly related to the Itkin case. I felt it was
necessary to explain to Mr. Newman that it was not the Itkin
case since we have been enjoined by the U.S. Attorney's office
from discussing the Itkin case with members of Mr. Hogan! i
Mr. Newman's immediate question was, 'Does this wwveled
I said it did and would look forward to meeting with him a :
on Friday provided the weather permitted an on-time arrival in

New York,

2. At 10:30 on Friday, 7 February, I met with Mr. Newman
and Sergeant William Graf, a police investigator assigned to the
District Attorney's office to work on the Itkin case. It appears
that Sergeant Graf, in the course of his iny estigation of Itkin's
activities, came up with the information ac working
for CIA, When Sergeant Graf first talked to Mr. Néwman about

this possibility, Mr. Newman thought he was jumping to conclusions
with insufficient evidence. However, Sergeant Graf_continued his

investigation and more and more evidence pointed a CIA
relationshi I specifically asked Sergeant Graf if itkin was aware

ofl station with CIA, and Sergeant Graf replied that
fr idence he had seen of the Itki Felationship

it was his opinion that Itkin does know “of affiliation with
CIA, Mr. Newman commented that if Itkin knew o OF
affiliation with CIA, we could be sure that this wou é€ brotght

out by Mr. F. Lee Bailey during the trial of Itkin.
