74-00000

Te ee . : . yr
oy os , a CONFIDENTIAL @
REVOCATION OF CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

DEBRIEFING STATEMENT

1. I, Abel Sd ye te,

hive been informed that my KUBARK cryptographic clearance has been revoked
effective this date,

2, I understand thet revocation of my cryptographic clearance bars ne
autonatically from further access to KUBARK staff cryptographic materiel or
information, but that it Joes not release me from ny obligation to protect
ity of cryptographic information, the knowledge of which I might
ain, I shall coutinue to protect that information to the best of
my ability, and I shall ltxewise protest the cryptographic information of
other U, S. Government agencies should I have knowledge of that information.

 
 
 

3. I have read the provisions of Public Law 513 of 13 May 1950, I
understand that I am bound-by taat Act even after the-revoeation of my erypto~
graphi> clearance and my termination from KUBsRK, and that improper disclosure
of cryptographic information could subject me to punishment under the provisions

of the Act.
4. I certify that no KUBARK staff cryptographic material remains in ny
possession,
ssewn enced Lp actacten/
Date: O27 ¢ Jarecety LIS)
Witnes

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 
 

[roa-t0i2t-10302 . .
foe . . oe, ‘ . Fp 4if
oe re) @ 257

- CCF -T D-E-R-T-1-

DaTE: 27 March 1957

PROT; 7-082
TO > Chief, WH
Director of Security
Director of Personnel
FE Gis : Chief, Communications Security Division

SUBJECT : Revocation of Cryptographic Clearance ~ Morales, David 38.
; es cat

at aa

1. The cryptographic clearance held by Subject has been revoked
under the proyisions of CI. legulation 90-500, Kevocation is effective
January 5957 :

2. Subject is not authorized to have continued custody of, access
to, or otherwise jain further knowledge of staff cryptographic material
or information, Subject has been informed of this revocation, has beea
Gebriefed concernin; cryptographic and related commmications security
matters, and has signed 2 Debriefing Statement acknowledging continuing
responsibility for the protection of all cryptographic information
obtained during the tenure of his cryptozraphic clearance,

FOR THE CHIEF, COiWUHIC.TIOKS:

 

 

Distribution:
l=. WH
1 - Security Office (Debriefing Statement attached)
1 ~ Fersonnel Office (Wing 1-H Curie Hall)
1 ~ OC-S/PROL File

 

/ C-On-P-I-D EST -I = =L

 
