74-0000

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
        

ae

SUBIEQT,

    

  

Karl £CCH, Aet4ng Chief Teuporagy
g. 2 Septeaber 1959 that be hed ettended
of Suga’ given by 8 Miss Aline MOOBY. He stated.
Lorth fuerlena Newspaper Alliance, ie abuut 3) years

red frend wlre service inthe USA for having leaki
Ccafidentdal magazine. He etated that cha playa feotaic
ond 8 a co-existence type, stated that rhe ts @ ¥ery, Band wie ie.
22 @ stringer for HARA and that bi

   

‘
;
&
r

    
 
   

 
     

Enown: to Me, EGCH ae Eapoeery Stay:
tcehnieian with Radio Moses Whea Es, PELSSET aEceptad <
anvitaties -be pniees ‘Miss: BOSBK Bah. ‘to eek say Latelige

te the doektadlld | : rox anti ge:
$9 the Gaited Stated A987 x) acne
- tharao’ BELTRSEY tielzed ay tha tegite for bic.
with Westerners so that at ether than: sockal aftaire © Taree :
Veetem correspondents ke merely Elves @' nod
quite Srlendly. He apparently has Jess mone;
£t wes learned that hchafl saved a Little sect oes ia otis 200,
whieh he wishes to use to 4fy out’ a Byetam he had devised ;
Ye hed asked a Kise Frieda LAM whe 2s a correspendait’ at &h
et the Deperttion *f she could fet bin into the Casins belende ‘ot
hie hewing to coor any oredentibis. Es was pioning te go on the bth
5th of Septeuber, oc ,

 
  
         
  

  
         
 
  

  
    
 
     
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
 
   
   

   

 

 

: This. information was passed to Chris
“ BRLIFSKY. agked Af additional Informetion
" The opportumity presented itself when Mr, BOGH Galled’ng ‘a :
: bofore offiee hours oa 3 Septenber and stated thet he had heen Savite
FELITSRY to take a ride 4m the comtrys XY @aked EH to try and got
tiogrsphie data on BELITSEY, whose his family. was, vhat hie father wap
doing, how long he.was going to be in Bruszela.. On § Septauber ie
calleg an@ advised that BELITSHY wae a mixed up fellow, thet he had
under: SYALIB and apparently not’ too friendly ts theregize bet sas b
nationalistie. 7 asked My. EOGH f he had made an approach te
seid definitely no. Mr. KOCH is preparing a repert with al, Ink
Eis report will be Forthcoming rithin the next two.

OE SNSRNPRATBH TT ST

 
  

   
     

 
 

 

104-10424-1006t ; . .

 

1. The following informstion pe
ELEY, Aline MGIB end Alexander.

‘visited the World Fair. BELITSEIY

OS - : = : -

:

: id

cable 94h7 dated 9 September 1958 state “dled
had received a letter fron a lady friead (MOSBY) of"

eo
he

. DOLBERG
 Brissels wherein she asked him whether ‘he bad coakhacts with’
TOGFE publication for Svoboda in order that she could transit 13

“Alagrammatic&t sketch of the circumstancés ag.
© RELITSKIY prier to his recruitment for-thé ATS

 
CGT OBES
i RE AE PCE,
aid
SA nee TT Ha

ean GRAS

onatikid

* apsee rane :

LOPS A TIER

oe ee
8 seg“

Bobs 2 dae

acess ea oe :
; Ov assaly PASS 88

Bip FADS

 
