 

a . De 2, Sol ~

 

x

y ‘ MEMO OF CONVERSATION ©

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

fa “photograph % as ‘Vale rin Sergeyevich LOGINOV, arid 5 sa id that he is’ always :
“the ore who comes:to tle.U,S, Embassy for visas, She did’ no recognize. nd
.the photograph of Vladislav Sergéyevich KORMUSHKIN, the Vice Consul.) |
Actually, Leila believed-that LOGINOV was a Vice Consul, said she always.
- asks” for him. ‘as such when she has to call the Sovict Enibassy. .

ar 2. ‘Apparently yesterday was not the first time that -LOGINOV has tried”
_ to take a date'with Lelia, She says that he always.asks her he Is ver does
“In her free tlmé, and ‘that she has put him off by saying. that she bs.

 

     

ax from the Emb: ssy, and was surprised to hear that: she. usually spends her” ~
“ what she did in the evenings, ‘and she sald she was especlally busy-now
because she’ lias started taking gultar lessons, ‘He mentioned some Soviet
~ dance group that was: “coming to.Mexico ina month. or so and sald he would ">
Tike to invite her to go to see them with him, He also told her he was not
married, Letla’satd she didnot. refuse the invitacion outright but said that”
she did ‘Rot, . know whether ‘she: would be free when they came or not,

 

oo : 3. I told Leila & few of the facts of Soviet. lifer that all Soviets have to
peony a ne en be ina rrléd In order to go-overseas, that LOGINOV: {s-a KGB.officer and

: was obviowily’ tying to get his foot in-the door of the U,S, Embassy through
-her, thar he was unUoubtedly disappointed. to hear that she-did not spend ~*~

all her free tiie with | ther Embassy people, etc, Leila chas evidently been

‘0. EQGINOV.'s advances, has not wanted to’ be--~——.

* ‘ride to him, ‘and seemed relleved when I ‘Suggested that she’ simply decline :

 
  
  
 

 
   

   
    
    

mannér at all, aiid I gather that she. ‘has felt uneasy in having to deal: with

 

Ae -Leila, ment tioned that LOGINOV kriows ‘English but- Is. reluctant to-~~-~--- -
° - . use it, He once’ read off the visa stamped in a passport in peffect English,
aes ae - and he also. read a copy: of the new visa regulations in English (to himself,
but evidently understanding ir ali), According to thé new regulations,
Soviets no longer need visas for continuous transit of the U,S, (i.e,, on the -
same flight), buc LOGINOV insisted on gecting a a visa for BAZA Rov in spite
se Ecce -of this, (This is confirmed in LIENVOY.)-- somone ~

  

J.L. WEENING |

 

  

  

off hours with non-Embdssy. friends, Yesterday LOGINOV again asked. her - Cte

‘hie, but, now that | someone has told her how to react ‘she will have no problem, wos
74-0000

 

 

_- LOGINOV haridwriting sample, received 16 Jur’ 1967, .from LIRENO.. *

 

 

 
74-0000

  
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 

 

 

 

tuo of his favorite snort
: avid sportsman, “Looms V
. the and ‘of July, No. reference. was mde to subject ‘texching Loaiev's son”

Englisi when the’ LodzNovs return fron-
is stu Looriovts wistis ns

“o> three ansassy elasaes, _ Te wa

my half, ah howe or 50 early: onea a week to rake the tapes. He was to begin |

“was to do the - Fecording,

: Ade: and told hin I'd paek, ue the tabs

 

. Director ‘of the. Ins dente tr andes, and asked. at he 0;
. ‘for a ‘nephew of heres

. . English taacher and that although he was: very. ‘busy, he ‘ould ask hi moat he

 

wuld be wining, to take on tha, neshew. - The director conmunieated the atova

: ‘to Subject, and Subject rave the Director a list of the few hours he had

“wouls anfora Subject ug any of the hours were suitable. As oF 27 June,

  

  
   
 
   

the Cx fa.120 in qu ation. “(ee §0-6-55/3, CR of 13 Sept. ink, >

  

portae for Teas a nutes. Losr07 satd skiing and speed siattc were

 

nterest sa

 

and that nis ereatest -aporting,

 

   

: “Subject anid “that Loans Nove ‘cones, to ‘ke an”

 

M

   

 

xico" was" playing -tennis

 
  

aid ‘that he wis going tod ioscow on vacation tower

 

va cation, but: subject assuxes this : fe

 

&

 

KAZANTSEV discussed Si gee atts vnakLag. tapes for use an connection whth nis Cee

   

greed that ‘Subject - “youl cone to the Bassy ©

  

on Ed dune’ (tite, day: of as meeting) « Subject did “not. yet know where he

    

 

whether-he-would be lect atone,’ “etes —
9. Sudject siid he; was considering having. another Dominion ‘Day Porty ea
“on 1 suly to- which he. would tivite nis Soviet students. I ‘encouraged the.

 

: The waek of (19 ‘June the wife of Prosident, DIAZ Grdas called’ the °°

   

 

   

   

Feconsend :

    

“tha director oplied that” “the Institute iad a ‘good

 

free, The director tora’ Subject he would call Mrs. Diaz Ondas back and

“s3/t Les

  

Subject hadn't heard further fron ‘the Birector.

 

 
 

     
     
        
           
 

4. KOVALEY. Subject said he nentloncd KOVALEV snd SOKCLOY ‘to has
wife, and sho Annediately recalled ROVSLET as One of her students at the

Boe eh Ants Lae ina Vitute. back in the lnte 508s, or ewly 60's.-

   

-* she toid Sudject. that’ he dad’ beon frtenity with ‘a nunver of people at ‘the

   

" Institute (stiidente and teachers), ono of these, she Feealled, was Bin:
EASTHLAZO,. a US. ettizen who, then ana ‘stall Beaches Sut
“cast

 

    
 
     
          
             
           
         

ae the Institutes,

 
  
 

wife that. atter one - of. his. visits to ‘tha Soviet Bids, he was" approached: af: yes wn .
seo
> by Soniepna from the é merigan anbassy and asked to Anforn on the Soviets, vars »

- CASTAEAO™ said he wos ropelter by the ‘Adea of b a n infornei, and woe _
. oy “C3,

 

 

“Anpliea that he’ hadn't sobperated with’ the’, ;

 

erteans, Sunjest said ho had | 5 ¥ () .
* not nos about CASTELAZONe acquaintance “ith KOVALEV, bit had known that 7

 

_ GasTELAZO had studied Russiah ‘and had “had him to his. apartiont along with
set

ROANGH ENKO. ’ ‘Depa

   
 

nd. ‘concanes RKO" for his 1 July 1966 BSAEDAe ‘Dontnton 4
by party. at

   

: had een friends. KOVALEV Y replied without any" _enbar absnént that he’ ‘didn't, .

  
 

 

; erenber “Subjects wifo, “but did renémber cAstaAz0.” ‘KOWALST asked Subject . .
“to give CASTELAZO his rogards the’ next ‘tine he saw hin,

» be Other than a 960° reference to rouilletno: caststAz0e asa 20433
year old “teacher at the. Mexiean-North American Institute ang an author

of one of the Institutets text books, there are no Station traces on
14-00000

    
    

~ came in atout ‘1530 and ROMAICHENKO ‘about ast, “ALL watched the @ Fight

 
 

until it. ended" about “asso, after’ shen the class degane ho, .

   
  

1700-1830 wo KOVALEV and SOKOLOV.

 
  

dune - oo -: wot

 
  

1530=1700 - BubaTt, GoNCHARE: KO, ROFANGHENOD - - oot

 

- 2700-1800 -- “ARANTSEV, Kazanrcey tegan taking about nis trip on:

 

. “his: own’ Anttdatave, « He said he lett Kexteo oaty on 30 Nay and” arrived in a

   
 

  

 

     

. Noscow c dunes Mie ‘dia not ay

    

hen he returned to ‘Nexteo.) He cave. “ti! :

     

    

   
 

| Feason for the: trip, but said he ha F *ueveral conferences: and méetings® in

    
 

Boscow. Subject Anterjected that! “he thought the ‘trip might. havo ‘had sonathiing - ~

  

‘te do with the Middle “Fast t erisis, since, it broke it just. about the” time a

    

| gon,

   
   

fay. thereafter left ‘tor his ‘susimer job iin ‘ngtberta" He a sold he”

 
   

“adit ‘the ‘second ‘weekend (20-12 “Juno) with his daughter. The daughter,

ad planned to go. Ssouth" for. a 263 week ‘vacation in

 

“ accoriisng to EAZANSEY,

      
 

‘early Jane, but postponed ‘the vacation when she learned her father wag . 0 of

  
 

. comings (Tha, Amplication, according to. Subject, was that KAZANTSEV's trip:

  
 
   

_carie about fairly gilderdy.) What ‘KAZANTSEv was most Anterested in talking

  

    

     
 
  

 

of - his ‘stay ‘tor the test

 

isch ‘ean often take that Yong. he! first day’
is taken 'p, by an ora test, and it one passes. that, he goes on. . to the written

    

   

est, welch ean, ‘take “Up to. tio, ays. KAZANTSEV, ‘however, did 50 well on,

    
 

“the ord test that he was exenoted trom the written test. He said his

exaniners gave bik a “un {on a ‘Ls ‘seale) and ‘Would have given ‘him a 858.

 
 

excest for the fact ha hadnt read any booxs in English since his last

        

s test. Cne 13 supposed to read four. or five books a year in English, according
 

    

to KAZANTSSW, In any event KAZANTSEY was. very happy with the out¢ome —

and with Ssvject's | work 4a preparing him for the test. In'fact, he, said

      

that although he had.

  

piginally, started taking lessons from Sudjeet only

     
 

_ to: prey pate’ for the test, ‘he wis SO Satisfied with his 2 erogre. 3 fat he

   
  

Antanded to stay on wi! a Sudject despite the fact the. test was bohthd hime

   

- 1800-1930 _ ~ KOWAESY and soxoLors oo Lae

 

    
 

 

a . sata siars, ors, and ROUA rEKO. would not attend class, ‘that aay. 27

 

 
 
  

1700-1830. — = ROvALSt and “SOKCLIN.

      

       

White KOWALSY can te very pheigint he seers to have. ataitag nis

    

   
  
 

strain ‘and eceas jonaliy. éhallenges, Sabject?s teaching. “sith: “that isn't :

   

the way we do ‘it in our sour’sts," etes ‘Sometines, in fact, the’ Aisoutes.

   
 

on methods, points. f ghana, etc. have vecone rather: heateds on ‘thesd_

 
 

occasions; SORGLOY has, "usually stepped . an more or lass. on subjects side -
and cooled things off. “at their second meeting, NOvaLav asked Subject directiy

    
 

what his views were on the widdle ‘East grisis, Subject turned the question”

    
 

back on KOVALST by: saying he would frankly ‘be more interested th ROYALEVtS |

 
 

“Adeas, as he was sure KOYALSY was much better inforred about the situation

  
      

“than, hes. KG sv. backed, away. this. _ tine, elaining he didnt have much infor~

        

- ‘ mation eith Sut * at a later class both he ani SOKOLOV earrotad the Sovigt - +.

Ro tee

         

line’ about the erisis

   

sraal was the aggressor, ste. On ariother oecagion

   

“when the aie East. was again the topic, Subject referred” to (wnat he recalled

 
 

  

# Truman's post-Norla” Waa ped proposal to internationalize toth-

   

_as) Presid

     

the Suez and Panama canals, KOVALSV. ianédtately objected to this iden,

   

eed

    

although he gave no indicition of ever having thought about at bvefore,

  
 

 

 

ie

 

 
74-0000

)

 

 

   

 

   
 

   

 

  
 

(roetor8 ns Count BY | i”

. ™

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

    
 
   
   

aw

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAYF NENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 2.0644 UdV VALEWVTL SEORPIYEWE
QOl~ OFESY/ 2. _.
Vol. JF

' INCLUSIVE DATES: _- : Ean re oe .

 

 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

 

  
 

ROOM:

     

 

 

  
  

“SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIA

   

. DARE aa >
| RECEIVED | RETURNED.

     

 

 

 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
 

 

 

 

  
   
  

   
         
   

- ?interested in takbng English lessons, and thereupon left with the c

ee SERVE: YU See ae)
Tete | hee
x dan
CONTACT REPORT : see
. e- 2 aye Ve
SUBJECTS - . LIRCCKET@20 "ON a
“pAre-oF NEgCIIG: Z? June 1967 \ coe oa,

I paid him $2, 90 HNe as his salary for fey and ‘Junee The noxt necting. as .

sadaurecr had" nine : cout - of: tow,” as he had, told Sub ject he would: probably
do, BOAT resLied without hesitatio ;
. _and ‘iouldn't be back until ‘about 5 June.

class. Followitig class, two men subject didn't reéégniza’ éané re and

* GONCHARENKO and ROUATCHENKO Lefts _ The, tye. men were introduced. as Vi

 

/ turned things. over to KOVALEV, ‘uho, he said, spoke better Engh. ish than’ hee

“KovaLEY pri

 
  
   
  
    
    
   
    
  

c/90 7 38 feo— o ’

le ‘L'met Subject from 1300-1430 on 77 June at the Capistrano, ‘Réstaurante

 

set for £25 galy at 1300" ‘at the caplotran .
2 _ Subject conducted we elassés at the. Soviet Enbassy du ting the ri cnt. "

 
  

_ 1530-1700. ~ _ DaDREY, corains ROMANCHEINO. Sub ject asked af

  
    
       
   
    
   
   
      
      
     
     

 

Kazarisey ‘had gotie to Moscow ”

 

6 June. re
1530-1700. =« BEDRIN, “concen, ROMAOHBIKO. | “Toward the end of”

clues, BEDRIN | said “there were two men who ‘wanted ‘to ‘epeak with ‘Subject after:

adinix ;

SOKOLOV and Pavel KOVALEV. pEDRIN explained briefly that they aso were |

onnent

 

at he didnt believe: he ae necdeds: soKOLo¥ wos’ the ‘first’ of the: twosome .-

 

     

_ to speak, Pepeated that he and KOVALEV wished to ake Lessotis; and then ©

      

déd to ‘state that he had served an washington, Dios for three’

 

years, had senved an earlier tour an Noxies, and had bean Back in Mexico

for about a “nonth. (KAZANTSEV later ‘said he. and KoyibEv had served in . oN . :
P- 9037 Cre / oy) RETO | PHI Cp éy\

9377 C F-3\71
C — BL097 P- Vie Cee: 4)

 
  
      

   
 

a.

 

 

 

   
 

 

 
 

 
   

TALE referred to SCKOLCY.

   

newts Leaving Mexico *sometine

     
     

 

as

  
     
      
 

this or and uanted be trush.up on his

 

sh in nresoration fer the —
‘th yes ra Binlish profiesensy test he would have *o take when he returned, te

the USSR. Subject sala that on the wholes “he: ct the impression | that ovals

  

» wag replaging gokoLew.: A sctiedalo of two elassis. a wook, from "1820-1950. |

   
   

‘on ‘Tuesdays and Thursdaysy was agreed tigone tae, of the. two Soviets mi ‘

     
 
 
           
   
 
       

hy that the funds for their Lessens weuld come out of 0 of the sanitary a :
: tt Ww ‘have their “fanst 3 desson and ‘Susjoct ‘eplicd that sine agai SEY waa"

_ awa: they aight as ‘wold desta innediately. The Soviets readily agreed.

  

 

 

o Sud, je t deserited Korsvis aglish as “good Eis erat mina is.a little better .
‘than Kazarsav'e, but she ds not quite ‘as- fluent as xAZITSE “SOKOLORS”

_ English ts fears ‘fate, but! te is decidedly. behind KOVALEY and “KAZAMESSY

 

- in both Granaar. and fluency. evertheless, Subject feols SOKOLOV is sod

    

. ‘ough te 6. in the ‘sane class as KOVALEV. :

 
 
   
   

       

=2700 = BERRI, ooiteaatenKo, RO cin

 

“1700-2650 a= KOVALEV ard SOKCLOV. “
2a dune
15302700 == ‘BEDRIS,

   
   
 

 

 

   
       
  

 

CONCLAREKO, ROM ce SO,

 

 
 
   

1700-1830: ~~ KOWALEY. and so a0

i 520-1700 = ~ subject arrived: at’ thie Extasy early. BmDRIN eané : Inte

 
   
    
 

 

“the Reception Room about 1520 and took Subject to the elassroan (an which “

 

there’ has always ‘been a-TV set). “Taree of the guards were sitting around”

    

the Tv watching the ‘Salace ar Tight v when Subject: ‘and BEDRIN enter ea. GORTEARESSO ~
