 

 

 

 

 

 

oa

vested tres be
* Colm@e, KioB

  
    
    
 
 
  
  

Ridse seeacd somewhat tegrescae wise tie aP
might use weatevsr isfivence he ta 46 ant luas:
tae daaoribed as being cestitate tn dav Yu -".
thrantenes saieise, to break away frac tie g- ..:

 

 
 

voces Detwves @éguia
anal COtbecd aly
78 Arango, 6% al,

3, Rojas then bequa .. para a tha basis 6. '
shat re calls the yoange rrvo’asionerited, seas
' fovenent pople, and the wiltfeos, cach 4s
whom they refer toca "lca Vielos", fre yrinr rev
with “Los Viejoo" fe proer thet Cust will elite >
political regives asd that these latter are ©.
proposition that the aigiml aime of toe rev.is coi wie. go ferward wit

withoot Castro amd, of ccurat, Witroat amy Cicerone? (efiennie., Adles
curiously taferred to these politicus 1a ee Peo as tg boo Pax to the
Tiget. I eaid that this view of sem war em lesely eo rity %) the view
bel’ by wost who cansiier tutu to be librreis comsiverably fer to the
left. I edved that if t-780 prople wera ery wre she left, towy wcals
be & source Of serioms vorry to the U. 5. Gorerasest. Aujas changed too
subject.

 

 

Featd tie obit
ihy s7ewice to tre

 

   
   

k. Ha wanted thes to kuov ff 18 woult Le voseir.é Sor the BS,
Gowermment to lent ite sagpor\ wc acre tram ans es ody, Yoel 1 reapomed
‘that the U. 6. Goverument me not sazporsizs ANY ey oJas just ehragged.
Ha went om to sexy toast if svapays . calc la piece visuble eueh as
the militesy types te Sac acaticne’ -reviozs
for exarple, o¢ a whole orginizet io5
this would ast only gain toe services?
against Castro but aigut sou the sence of poli.
Bq pointed oft that if toe young revalations~t+¢
YER are stitied fe their steerte te centr

   
     
  
 
     
 
  
  
 

gow rejectes by the

whieh coulé te very demeys.26 tad. o.ffuras
fair ascent of oubsters3 ¢0 this erlumd.t sod
Bojes was given the Pusitew uctell, 5. “ryolvert
(wateh, cf ecaree, be ¢oas no% tary) acd ace: cat ua dy wiateeer be can
te bring cbect unity ae betwen several arouye, de wis told thst the FSD
appeared to be the group vaich hed the preatess ceconization eed greatest
epperent potential for saccesa, aad chat ell ececernsc vould be ¥Ell ade
wised to sttemt to wexe prise whia 21, Rocas 252: thet he big a atromg
feeling thet weity em this tasts was ant possible at sia time besiwse

the feeling crswmg the young revsltiosiries wis ramming too high end too
enstionLly agsingt the TID. Ba wati be thoacss trace yourg cevolationaries
feel thet thay have been turned ows ty acllessctiug Coit ices, Bnd Shair
friends ex4 contacts ia the C. d. Governagat cree turued tocar beeke sod
edandoneS then. becanse ef this thry we woiferiry S.tiernese rnd dia-.
_. iligsioment, Rojes then susgetk Lint petoaps l-wetls be willing to.

" eyrenge a wevtiog for Sim with same regresenteitrs c7 the PND, epeesfically
thie was mt to be ome of tie five prion peas. Yoo (619. mew Wheb ae in

en atteupt to rafeee their differuies tal reactallied relstiorsniza and
ecoopersi {aa with the FAD. JT told Nua trae Fo
pet I thasgbt Lt we wet possible Limaumes ac se J. s- uveeromant, wrile

a thing there is a
iz boc in any cone,
in tres @sile afleire

 

 

 
 
 

   

 

Lity fav tse Tuture,

acs interesting ecgcertion -

cite scp AEF cee Se

 

 
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

104-10165-10107

 

 

IEMORAITOX FOR TEE RECORD
SUBJECT. 8 Report of Nesting vith Sergio Rojas
REYEERCE (icon (°F 17910), 2 Bertexter. 1960

le When £¢ wae learned bere that Aojar was intenting to go to Miaal
and there to etey with Ricardo Loria, it wac troughs it night be best to
talk to bie before be visits Kiewit eo as So ecomvlrt comiition his thinke
ing before be is exposed to tha full Linst of es id centizmnt vileb be
ie certain to cet from Loria ont bis associates. i telecsoned Rajas im
few York on 26 September, wa.a: tue dacredizie retociition phrase gives
in Paragrapp 5 ct refarercs, ini La sarees te ztop uff io wsbiagton en
route to Hiexd 27 Sepre.ber.

2. 2 met with Petes for eeveral heors in the. ShberatoneCurlton Uctel

 

60: 27- September. --Rejaa-ve gan-our qanversatioo witha lengtiry diecoures ~

intenling to esteblick & pictore of binreif as 2 complete ceutrel among
ths opposing Cubcn exile groups, be uot being a wenber of any grouse end
heavily exdoved with objectiviry. As = auster of fuct im the course ef
our éiscussion he spote wits seeuw'ng objectivity, Lat ca “elcace elseriy
favored the paint ef view of those young revolsiioucries. of the tyye who
nov peke cp the Aifangea d@ Liberseion, whe find theaselvss rejecting ard -
veleeted by tha FED. He ia vell scouaisted vith tas Listory of the Rta
pars in the forestion:of: the FRO, tha iuitiel .s.estion of AXBDWY<1 to
represent the NRE, and what cecarved later tc crsuta “be split ef the ERR
with the FD. ba presented the wnual arquuent inet tha MAR hod eade a

“bed mistake fa allowing abNTR YL ts Le toe.r ra peesaptagive in the FED,

aud AMMIDMY=] vas sabsequestly caphured by the goliticns and exces finally
to &- paint of representing any 11s 62 wires 3:4 tlievects in the PRD,

largely to the erelestes. of tae WGR isverests. (Tals argusent, vnied ves
‘ag wall peesytad by Rajes as Its cvur baard it, is eccarate. is de the

thing Waieh te have tended (0 sveer ander the rzz aad parnage have Bot

taken suffiglent moaies ef the fact thax the 1b dissisenis, oa called,

., Whieb wera oxprlled frou the FRO, wes fa fret the vavs core of the original ~
‘ VER.) Bajas syoke at Lergke adot the Aliaria also and pelt that he bed

telked with a meusber of Tie pecgls fe Pew Yoru ths cay tafere. Be
Loesiy legoate! the fact thal « amcor ef waleadle yung msn, partieulerly:
of the nilitary type, a°8 tring wasted ay & resvit of tnsse aiflerenece |
which exist tatweea tu yore revsuromries and the FSD, ag he pat 18.

* £ told Bim thet Legread with hin but that F thecgh4 tine the solation

for trene military typea wus siapla ~= f.e., if trey woeld preszat theme
eeives as iniivicuals efferizg thafy serriers 45 t:e FSD thet they wosld

de sceepsed and thecr waluedls eervices vould o¢ pas to cood use, Kxanylee

in this cace were Cainea, Diss leat, J'59 01a, ch ot. sreeamsisy, Rojee

wes eocplataly exatmay of Hino bien‘'s viseian.) I euugested is tule code
. action that pecple ef thia Aye were Being vistinizes by cue people as

-Laie Conte Agrere she in ousport of thaiy petites] aspiratiqce are -esisg

- Ghose af Litery we fo8 Wins owedrewning eat youtioal tergeining fesdere

    

wei hore att BeOS

 

 

—scsceadnissAee

eae ena ne

 
 

‘
Abia co wba nek abiat sot eee re Nande Dances

 

 

Mad tis aon abc

 

a Eb as ie

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background.Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

 
74-00000

 

 

 

   
 
  
  
        
  
   
 
  
 

oje

ie watutains ecartinecas interset ta there s7fs
i owhil

ougsestien to hie that ba ticvee hia frlews, £064
So eggrouca the 7BD egais asd ettamt oF shedt
tien. In cating ae, 2 sagevetved thry
of on olser, reve sophiavirered, esteure fiwdviswes
49 represen’ tksa in these crevivras Py he: i ae a
ghe HR's cifficsities, for szamgzla, ste trae poor re
Relieve thet Bajes tamediately gmenictiy sist bamaesd os ths Fale
éiecussions qoeea at this podzt

cay Ln kesh only @ few days,
fartier tosh Of a &
paetrinete —
ta word’ wsterp?
1eG eHdsorUsTk,
way pace® ncEber

$. Fojcs soi4 that be vag plousing to 8
after which be would return te Lonéos, ga sate
vegalt of bie viet bere be oecone eapriacty tort bs
subsjuntially to this Culen exile sitesticn in tit
ehocexies, ha plana bo Powsin 15 Syacge God athens
Qhere, Is iaxt be stated Su wiih etay with Lrie, oct
is Canal Gotrtte .

 
  
 

 

    
      

nrasdia (28 Boxt igs}

Dtetributions..
Cn Chie.
Lo» Rojee Gossier
Lie Wash /PA Curene
