fra-i0123-10281]

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE - BRIEFING STATEMENT

1. I, (print) éumes P, O'Connell . » about to be
authorized to have custody of, access to, or knowledge of staff crypto-
graphic material or information of the Central Intelligence Agency, and
fully understanding that the preservation of the security of cryptographic
material or information is vital to the national interests of the United
States, do solemnly swear (or affirm) and declare without any mental
reservations whatsoever that I will protect the security of such material
or information to the best of my ability, and that I will not disclose
such material or information to any unauthorized person. I understand
that the only persons authorized to have custody of, access to, or knowl-
edge of staff cryptographic material or information of this Agency are
those who hold a current CIA cryptographic clearance and need the specific
material or information for the proper performance of their official
duties. ,

2. I further swear (or affirm) that I will also protect to the
best of my ability the security of the cryptographic material or infor-
mation of other U.S. Government agencies should I gain possession or
knowledge of such material or information as the result of my perform-
ance of CIA cryptographic duties or in any other manner.

3. I will thoroughly familiarize myself with the pertinent comnu-
nications security regulations, instructions, and principles which govern
the protection of cryptographic material or information. I will at all
times provide the required degree of physical security in the handling
of the material to ensure that it does not fall into unauthorized hands
or be exposed to or otherwise be made known to unauthorized persons.

4, I have read the provisions of Public Law 513. I understand
thet I am bound by that Act, both presently and also after the termina-
tion of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency cand/' or the
revocation of my cryptographic clearance. I fully understand that in-
proper disclosure or loss of cryptographic material or information could
subject me to punishment under the provisions of that Act, or as provided
by the appropriate regulations and practices of the Central Intelligence
Agency. .

5. I understand that a cryptographic clearance is not a permanent
clearance, that it will be revoked immediately should I fail to maintain
the required security standards, or for lack of need or for other sub-
stantial reasons. I understand that revocation of my cryptographic clear-
ance bars me automatically from further access to cryptographic informa-
tion, but does not release me from my obligation to protect the security
of cryptographic information, the knowledge of which I might still retain.

: rc ——
Signed: zor rl Creme

io 28 ate: (8 dune 1962

 

 

Witness:

 

wese 1415 c TAL ”
