 

 

 

exile leader who was used by the Mafia. We also had deleted infor-
mation that would permit the identification of four Cubans, one of
whom had served ten years in jai] but was now out of jail in Cuba
(AMLASH), and three others who are still in jail. In treatment of
the AMLASH operation, we had deleted references to places, dates
and events that otherwise would have permitted his identification.

6. I said that in one case we had turned up an operation
-{AMTRUNK) which had been sold to the White House and the Department
of State by a prominent journalist who is suspected of being a
Communist agent. This suspicion raised security considerations -
about the operation. I described the role of counterintelligence
analysis and stated that CI analysis, in the Agency, is to alert
us to exercise care should the Agency have occasion to deal with
the man. While there are people in the Agency who believe the man
to be a Communist agent, there is no confirmation of it and it
would be unfair-if the conclusions reached in the CI analysis were
untrue and his name had been published. I-noted that Mr. Blakey
would read this in the unsanitized version and would be able to
compare it with the sanitized version. :

7. I told him that all of Tab F had been deleted because of
the extensive operational detail. The sanitization of this report

was affected by the Mexican government denial of the-CIA_presence in
| and the ability
O-identify persons who had assisted the Agency. oe ;

8. I observed that where we express opinions, even if he has
reservations about them, we feel that they have merit. We had
done our best to understand what we had found and had expressed
some attitudes about the various issues raised by our research. I
said that after he had read the report he may have questions, and
we could discuss them. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

9. Mr. Blakey asked if we had reached any conclusions about
the Kennedy assassination. I said simply that we had found nothing
that bore on the matter. In a general discussion I pointed out that
we were addressing the issues raised in Book V.of the SSC Finai Report
and that if it had turned up evidence on the Kennedy assassination we
would have reported it, but primarily we were addressing the question
of what the Agency had done. This covered the subject of assassination,
but we found nothing we thought bore on it directly.
([toa-t01a3t0039],

 

 

SUBJECT: Meeting. “with Mr. Robert: Blakey, HSCA Staff

 

7 December 1977 U2
ZL

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ©
Director: and Chief Counsel:

1. Mr. -Cummins brought Mr. Blakey to my office at 1400 today.
and Mr. Leader and I met with them for about an hour and 20 minutes.
The purpose of the meeting was to deliver to Mr. Cummins, for review
by Mr. Blakey, an unsanitized copy of the Task Force comments on
Book V of the SSC Final Report, as well as two sanitized copies of
the same report for review by HSCA Staff members.

. 2. I described to Mr. Blakey the genesis of ‘the study and, in
very general terms, how it had been conducted, emphasizing that it
is not a report of the Inspector General in the usual sense,. because
it was based on work by a Task Force. I stated that the report was,
however, assembled and written in its final form by Mr. Leader and
me, and we would assume responsibility for any imprectsions.

3. I stated that there may still be materials in Agency files
that relate to issues that may be raised, but that on their face
did not appear to be relevant. It would take a specific reference
to make such pieces of information meaningful. 1 stated that we were
pretty confident that we had covered most of the ground. Reference.
was made to a couple of items:that had turned up since the report. was
written. .These will be turned over to Mr. Blakey at some point.

4. I noted that the Terms of Reference that he would see in
the report amounted to a point of departure, and that as we pro-
gressed some of the questions seemed unimportant and new ones emerged.

5. I discussed the effect that protection of sources and methods
had on the sanitized version. The names of Agency personnel below a

-certain level were removed; he would see them in the unsanitized ver-

sion. A press story that was significant because of its reference to
aman to have been used in the assassination of Castro posed problems
for us. Although the press reference was unclassified, its significance
was based on operational information, and we had attempted to develop
the story while protecting the man. We had deleted the name of a Cuban

20228

 
 

eee a te ete sn nae tat o aebltn banderas tee
i :

-\

 

10. Mr. Blakey asked what I thought about whether anyone had
participated with Lee Harvey Oswald. I said that I had no factual
information to that effect, but as a personal observation it was
hard for me to believe that he would not have told someone what he
Planned to do. I would have expected him to tell Marina, although
from reviews of the recent book, this does not appear to be the
case, He offered the view that had the Russians been involved we
would have picked up some reporting by now in one way or other. I
said that although it might be possible, were such the case, I

. thought it highly unlikely, given Soviet practice on security. I

applied the same reasoning to the Cubans. He asked which Cubans,
indicating his interest in the right-wing Cubans. I told him I
was speaking of the Castro Cubans, but that if right-wing Cubans
had been involved the FBI would be more likely to happen on such
information than would CIA. I noted that the present ADDO, Mr.
Shackley, had been COS, Miami, during the period in question and
could repeat the testimony he had given the Church Committee on
the matter; he is quoted in Book V of the SSC Report. ‘In any
event, any conspirators would be few in numbers and would have
reasons to keep it to themselves.

11. Mr. Blakey speculated about possible connections between
Jack Ruby and others. I noted that our study had a few comments

_on a possible connection between Ruby and Trafficante in 1959, but

that we could not take it beyond that. I said again, that the FBI
would be more likely to have information on this than would CIA.

I said that we had not carried our speculations in the report be-

yond a possibility of a connection, as we had no factual basis for
doing so. He speculated generally about the various alternatives

and I replied in effect that I was not inclined to speculate very

much without some factual basis and that, in any event, I was not

an assassination buff.

12. After Mr. Blakey has read the unsanitized report, and

‘ compared it with the sanitized version which is for review by

his staff, I expect to hear from him further. |

/s/

S. D. Breckinridge

cc: OLC,Mr. Cummins

 
