 

 

e029]

 

 

»* fournal - Office of Leyislative Counsel

 

Page 2

 

Tucsday ~ 7 December 1976

 

6. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON In response to a letter
from Representative Robert W. Edgar (D.,; Pa.) concerning an
article in The Sunday Bulletin entitled 'CIA Disputes Broomall
Wiretap Story," which contained erroneous information concerning
the Congressman, J called Kathy Keel, the Congressman's personal
secretary, and told her that a letter had been forwarded by our
General Counsel to the Department of Justice on 3 December 1976
seeking their assistance .in investigating this matter. She thanked
me for my call and said no written response would be necessary.

 

7. (Internal Use Only - BAA) LIAISON Received a call from
Kathy, DDO/British Desk, who said they were in receipt of a message -
from) ertaining to the message that came in this morning
for Richard Moose, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, from
Senator Dick Clark (D., Iowa) requesting confirmation of the receipt of
the message and the time. After talking to Moose, I called Kathy and toid
hex that Moose received the message at 2:00 p.m, and that there would
be no response back to the Senator. She will take care of sending out
the appropr jate response,

8. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON Received a call from
Richard Dingman, Representative John B. Conlan's (R., Ariz.)
Administrative Assistant, who wanted to know the procedures
the Congressman should follow in requesting information on himself
under FOIA, I told him to write to George Cary and gave him the
address and said we would process it from there.

9. (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Richard Sprague, Chief
Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, called to say that he
would have to again postpone the’mé ve Tad scheduled for today at
10:30 a.m. .We compared schedules and decided to meet at 10:30 a.m,
tomorrow. Sprague asked if I would have the letter on destruction of
documents. I told him that I planned to bring along the final draft for him
to look at. We then discussed setting up a mecting with the Director,
Chairman Thomas Downing (D., Va.) and Representative Henry Gonzalez
(D., Texas). He suggested that the meeting include the Ranking Minority.
Member, Samuel L. Devine (R., Ohio), who he said is a great admirer
of Mr. Bush. I told him I would check the Director's calendar and get
back in touch with him,

20/50

 

 
