 

eo _ Rees oniE CONFIDENTIAL

18. In May 1962, because of Mr. O'Connell's assignment
to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to
Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.
Harvey was introduced as William Walker, It is not known whether
Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name..

Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security

cuassirten bY CHBSYY — LIFZAV 94
EXEMPT FROM CULTRAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE OF £. 6 | EXEMPTION CATEGORY:
§ 582). 3. (x) (circle one or more)
AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

len grated Eo Con Erdem trek

{aaless impossible, insert date or event)

       
       

 
    

t

        

6

ee ‘wi Site §

CON FIDENTIAL
74-0000

Classitiza sy OS 33 42a j
Exenzp FRO So nenee DECLASSIFICATION

MOT LY SECLASSiztED On

' ok ake tries

Se eg 2

16, Of significant interest was an incident which involved
@ requast levied by Sam upon Maheulind now shapes up as a
potential flap.) ~ 2 “a

At tho height of the Projact negotiations, Sam
. &xpressed concern memiageses nae: ay

  
  
  

   

      

Se eae Sele roam asked Mahsu
to put a bug in Qaeeees room to determine the ex-
tent ofgeer oe Sse ene See EE os aie _Maheit
“tol a efacilities, whereupon” ; ad
threatened ay, ta goto Vezas and *

take-care- ofthe matter himself- ld order tej pre-.

vent this, } Mahew contacted-Edwarg Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and-asked him.to handle tha

job. ~~ .

a Jéstead of inatalting a2 bug-in-the: oom, tha ©
technician placad 4 tan on the phona, whichob-
_ viously did not serve Sam!s.purpess.” {the techni«
cian involved: in the assignment, was discovered in
the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriif'g
office for questioning. _ é ch eo eee
Dy : e,f-he called Mahevfat-the pee ~
| Kenitworth Hoteh .Miami,’ and informed him that © .--7-
-” he had been detained by the police. This callwas —~—
- rnade in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel,

 

 

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-
nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along ©
«with the technician, On7 February 1962, the
Director of Security briefed the Attornsy General, -
Robert Kennedy, on the circumstantes leading up
to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap, At our re- -
quest, prosecution was dropped, ae

     
  

. SMP TION CATECORY:
* 44) (ciecle one er more)

    

Clon,

@ oF event)

 
    
74-00000

. | SE . CONFIDENTIAL

.Two articles appeared in tha Chicago press,
onze on 16 August 1963, and one on 20 August 1963,
that suggested Sam was working-with the Agency.
Tha first article appeared in the Chicazo Sun-Times
written by staff writer, Sandy Smith, ‘and had ag its
headline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.
It relates that tha Agency reportedly was in touch
with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them
in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-
tioned the Las Vegas wiretap, which the article
claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative
organization." It further went on to state that,
upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the
tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency. The other article appeared in the
Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony
Weitzel, and commented that during March 1962,
Sam confronted an FBI Agent who wag shadowing
him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me
alone? I'm one of youl" Sam allegedly stated that,
after Castro's rigs in Cuba, a CIA operative con-
tacted him and wanted to know if Sar could do any-
thiag for the Government on the turbulent little island.
Sum said he had frienda on both sides, but no clout.
That was it.

17. Roselli was introduced to James P, O'Connell, of thig
Office, who waa identified to him as an employee of Robert A,
Mahou, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be~
tween these two individuals, Roselli began to Speculate ag to
O'Connell's true employer and, at one point, stated that he was
convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project wag
Sponsored by the Agency. He hastenad to State that he was not
forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and,
further, he would not mention this to anyone else, including Sam,
Sam was never introduced to any Agency pergonnel and, while CLA
wes never mentioned to him, it is Mahen's belief he eventually sugs-
pected the Agency was the power behind the operation,

cLassirizn sy 26 3 4?
EXEMPT FRO% €°*" TAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHFOULE OR Et “METION CATEGORY: 5 wed
§ seer), (circle one or mora)

4, “4 ,
AUTOS i: ..a7 DECLASSIFIED ON ee CON FIDENTIAL
oles AY, Karr ef fo con denfia, f ; 7 .

Canless impecsibls, insert date or event)

     
      
         
  
   
    
74-0000

CLassifiec sy OL
EXEMPT FROM. CONTR

- AUT UA LALLY

(sales impossible, insert date or eveat)

J

ao SONFID ENT,

6. Maheu was asked to approach Roselli, who knew Maheu
as a personal relations executive handling domestic and foreign
accounts, and tell him that he had recently been retained by a
client who represented several international business firms
which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result
of Castro's action. They were convinced that Castro's removal
wag the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price
of $150, 000 for its successful accomplishment. It wag to be made
clear to Roselli that the U. S. Government was not, and should not,
becoma iware of this operation.

7. Ths pitch was made to Roselli on 14 Septermber 1960 at
the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His inittal reaction wag
to avoid getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he
agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the
“Cuban crowd." Roselli made it clear he did not want any money
for hig part and believed Sam would feel the gama way. Neither
of these individuals w#MéMver paid out of Agency funds, | \

8. During the week of 25 September, Mzheu was introduced
to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.
His initial imor-ession of Sanrwas that of a hard; uncouth indi-
vidualkwh6é looked and-acted liks 1 common run-of-the-mill hoods
lum... However, his living accornmodations at the-hotel-belied—
thig, zs did the-fact that Maheu learned Sam was under periodic
surveillance by the FBI? It wae several weeks after his meeting
with Sam and Joe, who was identified to him as & courier operating
between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of
thess individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade. " They
were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana and Santos Trafficant,
respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's
ten most-wanted men. The former was described as the Chicago

- chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the

latter, the Cosa Nostra bossa of Cuban operations. Maheu called
this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

9. In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing
this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but,
if he could be furnished with some type of potent pill, that could

    

LPLG AS FE
AL DECLASSIFICATION
7» SNEMOTION CATEGORY:
ve) (rds one og more:

DECLASSIFIED ON
£4,

    

 
    

 

. CONFIDENTIAL

    

 
   
 

.
[rod f0133-10344]

 

  

cuassizien BY O33 LIA aY 26
EXEMPT FROV CLNERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF 1. 6. 7. TAEMP?TION CATEGORY: om,
§ s80),@) vfs: (el Qeirle ome or mere) een]

ewan

(unlesn impossible, insert date or event)

AUTOMAGICALLY DECLASSIFILD ON

CONFIDENTIAL 24 Juno 1986

MEMORANDUM FOR:--Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT  S OMAHREU, aobert a. , -

1. This memorandum ig for information only.
2. In August 1960, Mr. Richard M, Bissell approached

Colonel Shefiield Edwards t6 determine if the Office of Security
had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring

* Zangater-type action. The mission target was he-Heuidstion-cz>
. Fidel Castro.

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group
was made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his
approval, Colonel J. C, King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed,
but all details were deliberataly concealed from any of the
JMWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel partici-
pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the |
purpose of the mission,

4. Robert A, Maheu was contacted, briefed generally on
the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an ex-
tree into the gangster elements ag the first step toward accome-
plishing the desired goal.

5. Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one Johany Roselli
on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew
him casually through clients, but was given to understand that
he was a high-ranking member of the “syndicate” and controlled
all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned
that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly
had connectiona leading into the Cuban gambling interests,

      
   
   
 

       

to con Tre

 

 
yapo009

    
     
    

CONFIDENTiAy

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be a much more
effective operation, Sam indicated that he had a prospective
nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had
been receiving kickback payments from the gambling interests,
who still had access to Castro and was dn a financial bind.

10. i anief, TSD, was consulted and
assioned cs develop a pill that had the
elements of rapid solubility, high lethal content, and little or
no traceability, Six of these items were produced and, after
being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.
Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned over to Sam for the
mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Guan w£8 briefed on the ultimate
use of the pills.

 

1l, Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks

_ of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out

CLASSIFIED BY 063394 bles eel

EXEMET FAO CUNTR*L DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE Cy
§ saan,

AUTSe..02 -nLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Gowngvrad~ed. fo conbrdentiaf

(unless impossible, insert date ar event)

of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made
several attempts without success.

12, Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the
principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis-~
affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and
was willing to handle the mission through his own resources,

13. Dr. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor.
tunity of getting involved in an inderendent operation. He was
told that the private interests-backing the project did not want
the U. S. Government and, particularly the CLA, to know of their
involvement. (So far as thts Cffice knows, he has never divulged
his participation in the project to the Agency. }

14. He asked, as a prerequisite to the deal, that hs be given
$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1,000 worth
of communications equipment,

15. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as
the project was canceled shortly after the Bay of Pigs episode.
Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pills
wers retrieved,

ry SUPTION CATEGORY:
1 te) (circles one or more)

 
74-0000
5 ’ : a
roy ey etekn

. @
16. Of significant interest was an incident which involved
a request levied by Sam upon Mahew\and now shapes up as 3
potential flap.) ° . Se
*¢
At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressed concern about-hts-girlfriend,-Phyllis

McoGuire;-who -he-learned-was-getting much atten-

tion Trom Daw Rowan-while hoth were booked-at a

Lay-Vepas nightclub, (Rowan,oat-that-time-a-réla-

tively unknown comedian~is-now: arpartider in Rowan

and Martin, the Summer’ replacement forthe Dean
‘Martin coast-tq-coast.TV:show.) Sam asked Maheu

to put a bug in Rowan'!s room to determine the ex-—

tent of his-intimacy-with MiyyMeGuire. . Maheu
“told Sam-he didn't have thevfacilities, whereupon:

Sam threatened toleays-Miamtto g6 to Vegas and

take-care- of the-matte¥ himself; In order to pre-

vent this, Maheu-contacted “Edward Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and-asked him to handle the

job. ~

; . . Distead of ingtaiting a bug-in the-room,_the
technician placed a tap on the phone, which*ob-
viously did not serve Sam!s-purposé. 'The techni-~
cian involved in the assignment was discovered in

. the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's
office for questioning. f eee
aboi e,fhe called Maheu: atthe el ea
Kenilworth Hoteh Miami, and informed him that
he had been detained by the police. This call was
made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel,

Subsequently, the Department of Justice ane
nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along
with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the
Director of Security briefed the Attorney General,
Robert Kennedy, on the circumstances leading up
to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap. At our re-
quest, prosecution was dropped,

4 oe
vf

‘ CONFIDENT AY

ton an

Ctassiviza sy OS ZZ
EXE; :

   

 

   

Re OF more}

ED ON

cs “tes.
(aaless Wapossibie, insert date or eve,

at)

    
       
