14-00000

was in writing) that covered the CIA's investigation of

American citizens in Mexico, this Committee is certain, on

the basis of the above detailed evidence, that such an agree-

ment existed, either formally or informally. (594) Hence,
the assertion in the 1977 TFR that "OSWALD was not an investiga-'
tive responsibility of the CIA" (595) is eemingly inaccurate ‘and

misleading.
¥

‘p. 156 "... two assertions of the 1977 TFR are important:

(1) that it was not discovered that OSWALD was seeking a visa to
Russia and that he had also been in contact with the Cuban Embas-
sy until November 22, 1963; and (2) that the Station did nothing
other than ask headquarters on 15 Octkber for a photograph, of

OSWALD" because no other government agency had made an official

- request for further information. (596) It has: already been -shown

that the ‘official request' that the Agency claims was not forth-
coming was, in fact, not necessary and that, as a matter of fairly
routine operating procedure, the CIA headquarters requested a
follow-up on the information already rewported about OSWALD.

[See Hqadts regulation re reporting on Ameri-ans - was in effect

then. It would have been necessary for the Station to receive a

request (official) from the FBI, the Navy, or State, for the

Station to initated an OFFICIAL investigation. Also, headquarters

did not ask for a follow-up, Headquarters ask that any additional

information which might come to the Station's attention be reported

to Washington. Such a statement is not a requirement, it shows
interest and asks that the Station forwarded additional information
but without setting up an official investigation.! The text of the

cable is as follows: "Please keep HQS advised on any further con-

 
14-00000

" - 6 -

tacts or positive identification of OSWALD. -

NB: DIR-74830 was written by BUSTOS on 10 October; it was not

given any priority slug; it went out at 22292; it could have been

authenticated by C/WH/3 and released by C/WH; the cable was
probably written late in the evening, therefore, C/WH would have
authenticated ~ KING did not sign, his OPS officer signed - HOOD -
therefore, TK would have .relaased for the DDP. It might be in-
teresting to know if ADDP means assistant or acting. However,
whatever the case, its is not suprising that TK signed off. No

matter what SCELSO said. ]

p. 156 It should also be noted that the CIA Headquarters also,
by notifying the interested govermment agencies that "Any ‘further
information received on this subject will be furnished to you". -
(597) belied the necessity of one of the agencies making an“ of-
ficial ‘request for further action. [This latter statemant is

a routine statement to indicate to the receipiant that the case
is not closed. If the recipient is interested, he would ask for

additional information and might gidve us specific requghements. ]

p. 157 There are several marginal notations on this document
[DIR 74830, 11.10.63]. Perhaps the most interesting is the nota-
tion "sic" with an arrow drawn to the "Henry" in the name Lee
Harvey OSWALD". That notation was made by Win SCOTT when he
read the cable on the day it was wWAd¢ received in Mexico. (598)
This notation struck Committee investigators as very strange be-
cause it was a possible indication that Win SCOTT knew, at the
time. the cable was received, that Lee OSWALD's middle name was

not "Henry". [The notation on the cable was not made by SCOTT;

“tower

 
14-00000

- 4-., .

p. 149 See citation - "... she had said that the cable and
teletype had been prepared simultaneously by three [emphasis
added] knownledgeable people. [! she wrote both cables - her
name appears on both! ] "She said that it had obviously been a
mistake that doesn't matter now! ..." [shows a lack of profes-
sionalism!] The remainder of her comment is accurate ~ she would

not have included the physical description. - umph!]

p. 151 - regarding TK's signature on the outgoing cable:

SCELSO claims it went to TK "becayse it involved disseminating
information on an American citizen ...'" [BS! The authenticaing
officer was C/WH, therefore the releasing officer had to be the
DDP or his assistant - TK.] [Further comment : An indication that
unqualified personnel reviewing raw information do not understand

even after being briefed, how an intelligence agency works.]

p. 153 We could just as well have sent this cable out without

TK releasing it. [obviously SCELSO does not understand how

: authenticating
cables were released in the- DDP - if C/WH is #¢7¢Agip¢ officer,
the releasing ;

DDP is AMgHdAei¢dAting officer (or his assistant).]

eh

p. 155 "Hence, the assertion in the 1977 TF Report that 'OSWALD
was not an investigative responsibility of the CIA' (595) is
seemingly inaccurate and misleading." [This is hogwash!] The
fact that a person identifying himself 4¢ by name was sufficient
to warrant a cable to hqts. on a routine bais, for a name trace.]
No one in Mexico City had the slightest idea as to whom OSWALD
was. It was not until a name trace had been run in HQDTS that

it was realized that he had defected to the USSR.\

en

p- 155 Even though the CIA denies such an agreement Cif it

. a

  
   
  

wy
x
w

S w
agency rule". }ér i Aerecplun wer ebujens at Verena,
wa

p. 139 LILYRIC base production "has not been made available for

review". [Agency withholding]

p. 140 "finds implausible A. GOODPASTURE could make a mistake
in light of her ottstanding fitness reports". [impugning G's

integrity as a witness]

p- 141 "No record exists that would indicate a reply to this
cable [DIR 84888, 11.23.63] by Mexico City Station. [See reply
by Mexico City - MEXI-7029, 23.11.63, which references DIR-

84888 - writer did not read file carefully.]

p. 141 "The likelihood that a photograph of OSWALD was indeed
obtained makes the "explanation", proferred by GOODPASTURE

et al, even more implausibte. (560). At this time the Commit:
tee cannot conclude why the original mistake was made even .
though it does. find the explanation offered by GOODPASTURE et
al, to be highly impiausibe.

"Regardless of why the mistake was made, OSWALD's
contact with the. Soviet Embassy and the mistaken [emphasis
added] photographic. identification of him were reported to
Headquarters." [There was no "mistake" at the time; station

said photograph “appeared to be an American'’. ]

p- 146 See paragraph 3 of cited cable - not accurately cited;

portion left out; writer did not check his notes.

p- 147 Re SCALETI's testimony - "she claimed [accurate physital
description]could not be disseminated due to a third agency rule"!

[This absolute crap - she could have referred to accurate descrip-

"tion contained in other agency files without violating "3rd

she toute bree,

> a ~ 5 oy , . i
Vn edien & Cauea™” wick weutd Wave. Werte up rhe de retepce sees |

 
14-00000

. . ; oc 2c -"

"At the bottom of each attachment page to the SCOTT
memorandum, a summary of the conversation is provided. (474)
The Station questioned the relevancy of only one of the seven
calls presented in the memorandum.. The summary of the 10/3
call says:

"By context of other conversations .by OSWALD and

the fact that this called [sic] spoke in broken Spanish

and English rather than Russian which he used previously,

it is probable that this caller is not OSWALD. (475)
[OSWALD did not speak Spanish - see DURAN's remarks, etc. |
Therefore, any call in Spanish was considered to have been
made by OSWALD. Nor has it ever been confirmed that OSWALD
wanted to go to Odessa. According to his wife's correspondence
to the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D. C., she wanted to go to
Leningrad. There is no record that he wanted to go elsewhere. ]

The HSCA has not been able to determine why the 9/27
10:30 and 9/27 1:25 calls were not included in this memorandum.
While the 1:25 call could be considered unrelated, it is unlikely
that the same would apply to the 10:30 call since the 9/27 10:37
call is included in the memorandum. [Later review by qualified
professionals of the Agency determined that the four calls listed
on page 2b were not relevant, OSWALD did not initiate them - the
reasons are given above. ]

A judgement that this call [10/3/63] did not pertain to LHO
could be pdAg¢¢ based on the following facts:

1) the caller spoke broken Spanish;

2) the caller did not have the number of the Consulate;

3) the caller did not know that visas were issued at
the Consulate; and

4) the caller states that he isseeking a visa, not
that he is checking on an application already
made. ;

The majority of the evidence indicates that LHO could not speak

Spanish. (476)

 
14-00000
: - 2d -

7 . In. light of DELGADO's assertions, it is possible that
OSWALD had at least a limited knowledge of Spanish. It
should be noted that the 10/3 transcript listed above indicates
that the caller spoke in broken Spanish. (477) The fact that
this conversation was in Spanish, should not by itself rule
out the possibility that OSWALD made the phone call. ...
[The writer choses to ignore the most important and relevant

reason that the 10/3 call was not made by OSWALD - OSWALD

left Mexico City early in the morning of 2 October 1963!]

     
 

p. 81 “An examination of the production from these operations
failed to reveal a photograph of OSWALD. (320) This Committee
has not been able to rule out the possibility that a photograph
of OSWALD was obtained in Mexico City by these operations since
the material made available for review was incomplete. (321)"

[Agency withholding - implication]

p. 90 This Committee cannot state with certainty that a photo-
graph of Lee Harvey OSWALD was not obtained by the photosurveil-
lance operations. in Mexico City because of three reasons: (a)

the photographs from LILYRIC, the "alternate" photographic

‘base which covered the Soviet Embassy main gate, and the. photo-

graphs from the pulse camera, which covered the Cuban Consulate
entrance, with the exception of a few samples, were not made
available for review by the CIA;. (b) testimony from knowledge-
able people that it would have been unlikely that the photo-"
surveillance would have missed someone whom it had at least
five chances of recording; (361) and (c) reports that such a
photo did, in fact, exist. (362)

"... Simply put, this Committee has not seen all of the
photographs produced by the. photosurveillance operations in
Mexico City (363) Hence, it cannot conclude that a photograph
of OSWALD does not exist among those photographs it has not
seen. [Writer fails do note that the Station, in November 1963,

reviewed all photographs and found nothings - see cable traffic.]

p. 107 “The Agency's withholding of certain production materials
from the photographic bases has prevented the Committee from

determining whether a photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD was taken.
104-10079-10059

 

8

INTERCEPTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS “Plea: 26, Wo evicemen. Uwliel, ens tan QE AT
wards the YEA OLIPHANT 8
p. 122 The above four conversations which occurzed on 9/27

and 9/28 contain almost all of the substantive information
that was available to the Mexico City station, on OSWALD from

the Soviet electronic intercept operation. These conversations

‘were not linked to OSWALD prior to 8 October 1963 when [MEXI -

6453] IN 36017 was sent to Headquarters reporting OSWALD's
contact with the Soviet Embassy on 1 October 1963 (494)

The conversations discussed above were linked to.Lee we

Harvey OSWALD by 16 October 1963, the date that the Mexico $10?
Pye coun? ea

City Station opened its "P" file on OSWALD. (495) The Process ne

swe
hom va ee

\woors

by which, and the events leading up to, the linkage of OSWALD
to the intercepted calls will be discussed in the following
section on the Mexico City Station's actions rebarding the

OSWALD case prior to the assassination.

A photograph of an unidentified individual who visited
the. Soviet Embassy was incorrectly linked to OSWALD prior to
the assassination. (496) The manner in which this mistake
was made and the consequences of that mistake will be discussed
in the following Jections on | the Mexico City Station's actions

prior and subsequent to the assassination of President John F.

Kennedy.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce /145 AR

 
. - 2a -

by these photographic surveillance operations. [How does one

"withhold'' material when thereis none to withhold?]

p- 114 "Material removed from SCOTT's safe now in possession
of the CIA provides critically important circumstancial evidence
that the €IA photosurveillance operations obtained photographs
of OSWALD:
"(OSWALD's) visits and conversations are not hearsay; ©

for persons watching these embassies photographed OSWALD

as he entered and left each one; and clocked the time he

spent on each visit." (469) :

"This Committee believes that a photograph of Lee Harvey
SOWALD was probably obtained by CIA photosurveillance in Mexico.
There are allegations that such a photo was found; there is

testimony:-that such a photo should have been obtained; the CIA's

withholding of materials; Ms SCALETI's strange lapse.of memory

“regarding the events of 11/22/63; and Mr. SCOTT's manuscript;

these things, inmthe Committee's view, would tend to indicate
that a photo of Lee Harvey OSWALD was obtained. On the other
hand the consistent testimony that a photo was not obtained in
Mexico; the absence of any record of transmittal of the photo

to Headquarters (the weight of this consideration is mitigated
by the fact that there were methods of communtéation available
that were not incorporated into the CIA's record keeping systems) ;
and the testimony of Ms SCALETI and Mr. SCELSO that a photo was
not discovered would tend to indicate that, in fact, the allega-
tions that SCALETI found a photo of LHO are false."

[A review of 1963 traffic shows no photograph was found of LHO.

The Station would have reported finding one, if it had.]
. : _- 2b -

p. 115 This study has demonstrated that the information from
the Soviet Embassy taps and from Headquarters was available to
the Mexico City Station prior to the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy. In addition to the Agency acknowaédged infor-

‘mation, thkre is a distinct: possibility that the Station had

available to it one additional telephone intercept transcript,

and one or more surveillance photographs.

p. 117 ‘Telephone intercepts [not related to OSWALD]

9/27/63 10:30am Man calls Soviet Military Attache re-
garding a visa for Odessa. (Spanish)

9/27/63 10:37am Man’ calls Soviet Consulate regarding
visa[s] for Odessa. (Spanish)

9/27/63 1:25pm Man calls the Soviet Consulate and. asks
for the Consul. (Spanish) :

eee

10/3/63 ? Man calls the Soviet Military Attache.
. oe (Spanish and English)

[None of the above calls was initiated by Lee Harvey OSWALD. ]

p. 118 ‘After the assassination @IA's Mexico city Station
passed copies of seven of the above listed conversations to
the U. S. Embassy Legal Attache. (471) The 9/27 10:30 and the
9/27 1:25 calls listed above are not included in this dissemina-
tion. (472) The cover memorandum states:
"Attached are photostatic copies of transcripts
of all conversations from technical operations of .this
office which are possibly pertinent in this case. (473)"
"The HSCA has not been able to determine why the 9/27
10:30 and 9/27 1:25 calls were not included in this memorandum.

While the 1:25 call could be considered unrelated, it is unlikely

that the same would apply to the 10:30 call since the 9/27 10:37

call is included in the memorandum.

 
