ya-00009 ye

 

--HPPROVED FOR RELEASE
KR usroRica REVIEY fen

  

 

22 SEP (376

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : John H. Waller
inspector General

SUBJECT : Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

REFERENCE : Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter to you,
dated 5 September 1976

Action Required:

1. None. This memorandum is for your information. We have also
attached at A a suggested draft reply to Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter.

Action Taken:

2. We have reviewed DDO and IG files on Mr. de Mohrenschildt. In
addition, at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and
has been in touch with the FBI as well.

Findings:

3. There is voluminous material on Mr. de Mohrenschildt in CIA
files, most of it dating from the post-Kennédy assassination period
when he testified before the Warren Commission on his acquaintance
with Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald. (A copy of the de Mohrenschildts’
testimony is attached at B.) ;

4. The bulk of the material in our files consists of FBi reports,
the most recent of which is dated 1967. The FBI has informed CIA that
it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our files -
contain all of its previous material on him.

E2, IMPOET
SEG RENT CL BY 055636

2
rae

 
 

[toa-t0102-10184

 

 

     

 
  
 

"Tz, ATTA
The attached suggested draft to -
Mr. De Mohrerischildt was written without
knowledge..gf the flavor of your personal
relationship with him. The tone May not
be appropriate, but the message boils
down to thé fact that neither CIA nor
the FBI appear to have been interested
in Mey De Mohrenschildt for a number of
years. “

=e
This draft was coordinated with OGC
on 22 Sep. = :

 
   
        
     
 
      
   

  

John Waller

 

 

        

FORM HO 24] REPLACES FORM 35-8
FFEB 55 WHICH MAY BE USED,

 

 
 

 

SECRET

5. Mr. Helms’ 3 dune 1964 memorandum for the lWiarren Commission on
the de Mohrenschildts is attached at C, It describes the Agency's
interest in obtaining reports from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a
result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year. Contact Division (now
Domestic Coliection Division - DCD) had its resident agent in Dallas,
Mr. dg. Walton Moore, contact fir. de Mohrenschitdt at that time. The
history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de HMohrenschildt from 1957
to 1961 is also attached at C. As a routine matter, Mr. Moore requested
‘traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt. The trace results (attached at DB) con-
tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive
contact with the de Mohrenschildts. (An 0S summary on Mr. de Mohrenschildt
prepared in response to the current request is also attached at D.)

6. Our files show that a mail cover was placed on letters addressed
to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to
1966. (This was probably not uncovered at the time of the external in-
vestigations.) This included opening and photographing the contents of
some letters by the cia there. The results of this operation
were shared with the FBI.

. 7. Mr. de Mohrenschildt came to the attention of this office during
the Rockefeller Commission investigations. We were asked to respond to a
Iemorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch entitled "CIA
Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation.” Mr. Hoch called for
an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation and
asked what Mr. Moore knew about Oswald and what he may have told Mr. de
Nohrenschildt about him. Our reply to the Rockefeller Commission is
attached at £. .

8. The most recent information we have on Mr. de.Mohrenschildt comes
from Mr.-J. Walton Moore wno was contacted in May and Juiy 1976 by writers
connected with the Reader's Gigest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell
Publishing Company. Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and
Mr. de Mohrenschildt. Mr. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached
at F.

Conciusions:

9. Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and
colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman. He ts both weil

—— ~2-

SECRET

 

 

 

 
   

ECRET

nd poorly connected, and some of his associations in the past have
Certainly his relationship witn the

‘aised serious questions.
swalds has caused him considerable trouble and may nave caused this
gency and the FBI to spend more time and energy.on him in the past

‘han was necessary.

10. Both the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their
nterests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's activities by the mid-to-late ~
960's. We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could
ither be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa-
ives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the assassination
f President Kennedy. We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond
Ir. Moore’s reports attached at F. What we can say is that we have
ound no indication that either CIA or the FBI has taken any active

nterest in Mr. de Mohrenschildt in recent years.

hi (lee

a Yeh te Waller

(-"
ttachments: 3

A thru F a/s : =
_ : —

wy ;
“=
hea
ond
Me
~ any
904 9? 3 3b A:
_ _3- gee $e wif edt

SECRET "

 

 
