 

pe

Pros-totdo-toaig] USE UNLY . - a
CTA (WTERNAL USE 0 \ oo. A gefeo e
“2 OIA INTERNA ) ~ Cs ° . ft Cow #

™

  
 

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel H S C A
Monday ~ 2 May 1977 77- 2007/2e

Page 6

 

24. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff
Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, ‘and set up a meeting
for him with C/CCS, at 11:00 a.m. on 3 April to discuss
a story regarding]Agency] __ - hich may appear shortly
in the Chicago Sun Times. .

Talso asked Miller if there was any remaining assistance the

Agency could provide on the matter of a briefcase temporarily lost by
one member of the Committee staff and Miller said he thought not.

 

 

25. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Stan
Taylor, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who referenced
one answer provided by the Agency to the supplemental questions [9-2
submitted by the Committee regarding Agency activities
Taylor thought that the documents referenced in this answer might help
in convincing the Committee to delete the most offensive sentence in the

interim report. I promised to bring the materials to Taylor the following .-
. morning. :

26, (Unclassified - GLC) LIAISON Steve Fallis, House Select
Committee on Assassinations staff, called in follow-up of His “CATO tm.
Friday concéFiitig-seeurity-tlerrencessand related matters, I told him
that Mr. Doug Cummins would be in touch with him today, after he
has talked with our Security people. . :

27. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Sam Hoskinson,
National Security Council staff, to check on the President's contacts
with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on the Micronesia
“statement. He confirmed that the President had talked with

Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) on Friday afternoon and the
Chairman had indicated that the Committee would hold off any action -
on the statement until Chairman Inouye returned to ‘Washington and the
Committee meets on Tuesday. At that time, the matter will be brought
before the full Committee again. Hoskinson said the President was alsa
considering calling Senator Gary Hart (D., Colo.) on the roatter,

IGM 8

 
