74-00000

SECRET.

-2-

4. Certain discrepancies exist in the matter of the exact date of
CONEIN's second marriage. Official French records give the date of mar-
yiage as April 2nd 1946, which is presumably the correct one. According
to CONEIN's file in the Passport Section of the Embassy he was married
in Paris on May 13th 1962¢(WFPWh2) of March hth 1948, on the other hand,
states that he was married April 23rd 1946 in Paris. It is possible that
these discrepancies are the result of a clerical error somewhere along the
line, or that one indicates the date of the civil ceremony and one the
religious ceremony, which is usual in France though rarely so far apart.

5S. During the course of her routine interview at the Embassy in
connection with her application for an immigration visa, Mrs. CONEIN Sr

displayed a notable reluctance to discuss her son's affairs. ‘She stated
Uhatste Had 1 f

ao littie or ho Contact’ with iia and WAS Hot Aware of his
marital situation, although she had heard that he had recently been di-
vorced. Ho valid reason for this reticence:is known, particularly since
investigation revealed that she was a frequent visitor to her son and
daughter-in-law at 171 rue Saint Honore. This information is therefore
submitted for the record and whatever it might be worth. —

6. Serge Pierre VEBER, CONKIN's father-in-law, was born in Paris
on September 2nd 1897. He was married in Paris on April 18th 1918 to
Jeanne Henriette Denise ALCAN, born July 3rd 1896 at Ville d'Avray (S-et~O).
Monique Denise CONEIN, nee VEBER, born January 20th 1919 at Nice, is
their only child. VEBER is a well-knowm dramatic writer and producer.
In 1939 the VEBER family lived at 15 Quai de Conti, Paris. VEBER left
that address in 191 and is believed to have joined his family in Algiers.
In 193 the family was investigated in order to determine whether or not
they were Jews. It was eventually determined that although they had
Jewish connections they were to be classified as Aryans. Serge Pierre VEBER
has a brother, Gilles Pierre, born February 17th 1896 in Paris. He is
divorced from one Raymonde KIATEMACKERA and was remarried in Paris on 25
May 1935 to Catherine AGADJANIANTZ, born 25 November 1911 in Petrograd.
The latter, who is of Russian origin but a French national, had herself
been divorced from one Jean ROSSIGNOL, They have three children and in
1943 were living at 7 rue Erlanger, Paris l6e. Gilles Pierre VEBER is
a writer who has published numerous novels and for twenty years he was an
associate editor of "Le Matin". No derogatory information concerning the
VEBER family was revealed during the course of the investigation.

(No file copies made).

SECRIE
 

oe tOret0100)
a

Tey

 

6 April 19h8

oF . ‘
TO : Cc) .
mon + (SD
SUBJECT : Lucien Emile CONEIN
REFERENCE: (PDL, lk March 198

’

1. Subject was born in Paris on 29 November 1919, the jlle-
itimate son of Lucien Xavier, CONEIN, born March ith 1872 at Meaux,
“and Estelle Leontine Aimee ELIN, born June 6th 1893 at Soengi, Sumatra.
The birth was registered at the Mairie of the lth Arrondissement under
the name of ELIN, although subject was later recognized by his father
and took the name of CONEIN, CONEIN Sr. died at Redon (Ille-et-Vilaine)
on February 1st 192). ; :

2, CONEIN went to the United States in 1925 and was brought up
by his maternal aunt, Mrs. Jeanne McBEE, presently living at 1013 Wiscon-
sin Street, San Francisco, California. The latter has been in the United
States since 1921 and became a naturalized citizen on 19 June 19)2.

CONEIN became a naturalized citizen on August llth 192 at Tacoma, Washing-
ton. His mother is presently applying at this Embassy for an immigration
visa on the Netherlands quota, in conformity with the Immigration Act of
192) which states that nationality for quota purposes shall be determined
py the place of birth. Her sponsors for entry into the United States are
her sister and her son, both of whom have filed affidavits at the Embassy.
CONEIN also has a younger brother presently living with his mother at 15
rue du Chalet, Malakoff, Seine. The latter is married and is attempting

_ to get a divorce.

At .
oy 3. According to the affidavit submitted by CONEIN in his mother's
ye favor, he was first married on 29 July 1943 and divorced on 9 November of

we” \ the same year. No further detailS-comeering this marriage are stated.

yr ae .He was remarried in Paris on April 2nd 196 at the Mairie of the 1st Arr-
ee ondissement to Monique Denise Pierre VEBER, born January 20th 1919 at Nice,
all the daughter of Serge Pierre VEBER, well-known theatrical producer, and

oreetrPifis on oF ‘December 19:7. The records of the Tribunal Civil of-~

\p Jeanne Henriette ALCAN, They are both French citizens. Tm—chllere ere
- ras born of this manriage. According to CONEIN's sworn statement he was
Ww the Seine Department indicate that a decree of divorce “in absentia" was

Qh «

<— granted on that date at the request of Monique Denise VEBER in the absence

De of CONEIN, According to French law this decree is not considered valid

until officially notified to CONEIN personally, at which time the perti-

nent data will be entered in the marriage register of the lst Arrondisse-

ment where they were married. This has not yet been done and CONEIN is
led / therefore not yet considered legally divorced according to. French law.

3Ir x

— SIECRIE

   
