 

 

 

o

* : 4

Subgect:

   

. of Eeeting

 

 

Mereno ( in

 
 
 
 
        
    

3 Safehcuss)j.

that ¢

well after cidnicht on)

 

 

2. - disc at 2 is the transerizc of
as 1}, Sergio Yalgez as 2} 3af2 Horeno
The first six lines of th

3/2 and Rowson in the £.

   

7 3. The original purose of the meeting, accordine to LIRING/3, wes :

to meet «with the FaR propaganda re mbtative at the University. .
- whes he id rot show up wits Valce °
~ thes ateut him and Yel

  

find hit, ore~
t batly decasue i x pup ‘
i as = student.
: : ia* (nilitary dreft cami} end the fact chat be had already
: . helfedrsther's birth certificate te vaccbo Rodrigues Tadilia since ke
hinself could tot use it ( sane last raze). ; i

 

 

&, The tare fron the Suz in the sefeueouse unfort.

 

rately is notolesr
enough to pertit a grod transcrijticgu. It appesrs, aovever, that the
Uher recormting is a faithful representation cf the ceeting and there
is uo indication of decertion before cr affer the LIRING/3 recording.

 

   

i
i
t
3
a
{
|

 

TY6 aH “3 4 NMA- P2093

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

i
k

 

 

 

Eejer. Este mojado afuera, verdad? ;

2)
1)
2)

- 2)

2)

; Ye acuerdas qre 4 problera de darte confianza, no? Dbrque Bi NOsse.

_ Pero con egua. - Cokes ee

‘Com agua. Tengo entendido que baja la presifhun poco, no?
Shoe

i
L
~ oo : i

Que pest Pudy? Verdena, ea aue estaba en el baiio.

Est& esto acuf setor.... Mejor cerrar la ventana , eo es, forque todo ruido de allf
viene. Fato es io necesaris .. i

Voy a cerrar...s
Vanos a ver.

Pero mire usted.

wiiobole.

Quiubo, come estas?

Que mecuentan?

Ban wrte, Dold, ager, en Wisperes de desvesarros.. (risa general) |

Por aqui Hevié poco, porque... ” :

Ilevié en la tarde.- Que pasé mes con el cenpatero ese? ; '

Enbo un rreblema, gira, Bl muchacko este est equf en parte en oparicncta y en parte en
cierto est& onmo estudiante, Entonces quedé yo de - me Ie dia en Ia

  

econtré el otro

universided : :
1

Usted ce habfa diche qre ya habian hecho cita previa. ‘

Si, quecé de verlo coneretemente en el café de la escuela. rere results que el esta

en exarenes entonces quedarcs en que previarente le tenfazos que takler, El tiea:

que cuiéer bastante su erariencia de buen estidiante porqne es una de la s cosas, uo?

Extonces yuedé yo de hatlarle, dessraciadazete no lo be encontrado; seguramerte

por allf azda presentarndo exémenes, no sé. Pero en estos dias, yo creo esta semana

ge acabas los exatenes en la Universidad y en estos dias..el ya Puede | venir con
resotros cesde e1 lunes. 1
;
Entonces me avisas de cna fecha cuando lo hayas lecalizado, mas o menos COM...
i :

Si, clars. Oyes, quiere de eso? Eso es whiskey eh?

 

 

i
at

'

i

Pero el cigarro le vwelve a acbir, Fijate que curioso, que en clisa caliente : el
skiskey subde la presién y aqui ea al revés, Con raz6n cuando yo tonsb Fucho | salia
BSleeee Diges no siente suche lo ded custe esté, rero de todos modos pe” YOoue

Jo r- [293

 
 

eT Vay
SECRET 20K
‘ : 40/7/67 .
. i
. i
» :
le. LIRINC/3 reported to Rovten evening 9/7/67? that he ont If& learned
froz Catalina Sepero during dinner 6/7/57 thatfozr and b-nethl; more
KINSREX inspectors cheekirg ‘Tiles and eetivites of L
paerticuler attentiun to the fi
and are cosin> up «ith many unluvorable ("nuy feas")concents,

 

 

ancial szcounts ef LINING/O's off

 

    

WO:

2. L/t also learned fron nesro/stucert residing Melcher Ceanpo «ith
medical students that Cereda bas recurned but very glus and withérawn.
Catalina Cerero also conzented to L/S + /9 cn bis retur
DY on 3/7/67 expressed sursrise snd ppointnent thet £48 LT5
longer working in his office. He has to date contes

i personally ( ror has ue in fact reson S76 Ft S appears BIRING/9
anc others in LIRITNG «4 1Z spd a he inspectors. :

 

oe

i
|
'
}
‘

 

 

 

 

   

 

Bes mreneersencenedene teats arse ate

| Sfe ak “3 Linnea. 22635 . J

‘ “798 Zor

be

ese emar cst same aang pe rm

 

 
 

 

TALLER DE VITRALES

PLAza BIRAVALRE 2

COLORLUZ

MEXICO. DB. #.

 

 
14-00000 Ey

 

 

 
 

TNSF a Om Se WEOE AND pete

 

  
 

  
 
  
 

  
 

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH | Ww 52635,

 

  

since that dste, i oe

C,. What control factors do ve thus have on LIRING?3 and LIRING@47

We have, for ezacple, the fact that he receives a salary frow kOWION
in return for information on Cuban and leftists subversive activities.
ROWFON, at the beginning of the operation, told LIRING"3 thet aa——-
needed this information for economic purposes. As EOWTON wes ia*
tq@rested ia dealing with the Cubane, he had to kacy a3 arch stow
their activities as possible. To say that LISLNi-3 does aot believe
that ROWIOH hae motivea other than purely economic gain would be
to underestimate LIRING?3's inteliigence, LIRING*3 has several
times told ROWTON, however, that he does not know what che ietter's
veal motives ore end is past caring what they may be, This saxes
the collection of informetion on Cuban and leftist activities for
ROWTON 811] the more a control factor, a8 LIRING™3 is in fact’
“spying” om the Cubans and the leftists they support, Public
knowledge of this would put an ead to bis relationship vith various
types cf leftist elements, to the soney he receives from ROVICE
and to the type of life he likes and cam sot live without BOVTCH,
The false Mexican documents that LIRING’3 has recently obteinred for
himself and for some of his leftist friends are another source of
control, Gbtaining false documents is a punishable offense in
Mexico which could get LIRING*3 in jail, The tepes of LIRISG<3's
recent conversations with VALDE7 and MORENO could also be uzed as
&@ form of c:atros since mamas’ S'e weve dad List sf NOT oe. he
heard on the tapes befcre LIRING“3's conversations with the Mexican
Leftists, indicating that LIRING-3 tmew that these talks were

recorded for the benefit of someone unknown to VALDEZ and MORENO,

but obviously interested in their plans, Since the Cuben Extssay

sent the two Mexicane to LIRING*3, the disclosure of the tapes
- existence and of their content could really hurt LIRING’3, ts know
' from the technical operation on LIRING"3's safebouse and it's
LIFEAT coverage that LIRING®3 has a mistress, Although he dces not
always get aloag very well with his wife, he baa assumed an air of
self righteousness during domestic arguments vith her, LIRIN-3 can
be expected to do his uteost to prevent her from knowing about the
. ether woman as such knowledge would personally hurt bim very ouch.
: Finally, the fact that LIRING*4 uhas smggled official docments
from the Cuban fmbassy with the knowledge that they were copied
before given back to hex as well as the fact thet this had rie
blesaing of LIRING"3 certainly constitute elemencs of coatrel on
LIRING*3 as well as LIRING@4,

  
   
  
  
 
 
   
  

oon

for Be spagh Aisi

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

oe
ee
~
: ¥.
‘
. ore of principal rewsparers @ith following text:"La pe reona 3 intores ava
: en Artesanfe Mexicana favor de genta: couunicar con Sergio Valdez,” :
. followed ty addrces. Lc ng Valéec Ortega or soze other representatéev?
: we
: resistance uoverent wculd then contact hin. =
2. 1/3 extracted this inforzation allecine that he planning trin to om
f Caracas in near future to confer with inzel Arvanitis of Metaloplistica

i Guatemalteca who has not as yet been able to leave Caracas beczuse B&
locas business interests still pend aif Criega ef sulficient ops “
interest LIRING,/3 eculd actually zeze trio contact Crtege. on behal
Valéez and arrange future conse channel. On cover side L/3 ig fornéaz
partnerscip with Valdez for

i 3 Plezea Hiravalle and ovned

 

 

  

ticn of small glass factory located

contacts
3. Valdez also :rczised introduce L/3 to Venezuelans in Mexico City

‘ evening 6 duly.(Valéez az

 

erently respects L/3's superior xnowledze
and experience bh clandestine operations and his ostensibly high-2 avelomy
‘ Cuban sontacts). ‘

 

. 4, FYI L/3 is worzing closely under Lexkex cirection of Rowton who 46
i is posing as Greek revolutionary with world-site susiness interest 8. 2/3
bes never en's ultinate objectives over past year of eol-

mtly in fear of alienating Rowton's affections ‘and

losing ccntact vith him ( Bis only contact with Rowton is telephone ans-

wering service nurber in Fexico “ity}. Rowton feels reason ably certain
___ 14/3 would report faithfully cn -resuits trip to cara cas, (but. would recoi-

; mend station use 21] technical means evailable to. cheex his movenents.

 

5. If station desires Rowton could stop off briefly ofa {19 july on return “
; SDY Georgetown brief staticn on 1/3 sacksround and dis cuss plans for a
i future use locally. 9-0 7 cs core ,

* SePRETIREPOK ca

(S/Caka/k Hlama- 226 35

     
     

4

29 5e 1 “

a
i.

a oe

 
 

 

   

: 7 7 ~
: : AY
i ae . = ne
i: SECRET 8
if. so : >
: x 9 ~
; Ss > SCA TO GHHA-32599 of 24 JULY 1967 x
. eb
. i) 7 TO: CHIEF/wi DIVISION =
. a s
SOK FM: COS/HEXICO CITY Ee =
s Soe \ 3S
a
s 8

  

SECRET

ie >
a . : . ~
‘ ad . . . : : , cr

$bits, clo) aimtianetenaetintar ota ninienge BRET eae el TEA Ne nian me et emma no Soo reine meas ie teensy | me ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

1 er

tip
 

 

104-10176-10002 a . oa

 

. - id

 

 

| CC Hee
1 DISPATCH SECRET BS sane Fon reexog
| Ye
: ae Chief of Station, L Ve~ | teas nace meee fe
: Chief of Stat-on, Mexico city, / é. incor
SoREST

OPREIMER/LIRING"3/fransaittal of Photogreph of Sergio *VALDEZ aed LIRING<3
Tehee BegciaeD - REFEREED ™ \

wh (Aci Bente

’ \ i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

? ! Re cee tAl woe fos. -z ort}

 

Ale
Forwarded onder separate cover is a photograph of Sergio VALDEZ

: fon the left) and LIRING-3 taken recently by the LIEMBRACE team,
VALDEZ, & Mexican ieftist, has had several contacts with LIRDG"3 to
Giseuss the eatablishment of a commercial cover facility in Venezuela

: to provide help to the leftist rebels in that country.

[Perry

 
 

Kul. yag i :

i H

| Deocmwers con Bi. tanend Shonda

: gor Bilan c, CURTIS :
i Attachnent + : i

} Photo 2/s above UNDER SYPARATE COVER

! Distribution: £ : an

; 2 C/wep wate é oo |

i ~ cés{ |w/ate f i

2° PILES

24 July 1967

SBCRET . 261°798301

 

sent
a

Pen

ate

 
 

    

  

ww dpt

 
   
 
 

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, |
Chief of Station, Mexico Ci of L.

PBRUMEN/The LIRING“3 Cperation
BOTWR REQUIRED - BEFERERCES —

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

  

   
 
 

Byi

 
    

1, Forvarded under separate cover are four reports written by
Wallace B, ROWICN op the most recent developments of the LIRING@3
operations, Two of these reports cover the transcripts of two conversa
tions between LIRING“3, Sergio VALDEZ sud Raul MORENO held at the LIRING-3
safehouse on 23 and 26 June. Ca both instances, the tape produced by
the LIRGSIN listening post was of poor quality, but that produced by the -
Wher recorder installed directly in LIRING“3's safehouse by LIRLNG-3 end ;

cettebentar ha TYpTTIY faceeticedon bo bist
BOPPTOS une ~ J x Nts Tiss pldgecs oy

technical breakdowns that seem to be the resuit of some form of in=
compatability between the receiver set and the recorder used in the i
installation, Steps aave teen taken to remedy this situation. Asa ; .
result, the technical quality of the LIRCSIN product has gradually icproved,

    
       
     
      

 

"2, The inforeaticn contained is the report dated 6 July provides

additional data on VALDEZ‘s contact with Veneziele sinCaracss. | | :
Some of this information was cabled to the in MEZICO CITY.

 

1954. As pointed ct in following correspondence, VALDEZ and MORENO, who
are disillusioned with Commmist Party hacking of the Venesuclaa rebels,
will probably go ahead with their plens for Venezuela with or without -
LIRING"3's advice and support, at least as far as the establishment of a
commercial cover facility is concerned. Neither will VALDEZ and his friend
stop there, These two ideslists hope to “branch out” if they can into other .
‘areas of ietin america. both Central and Soath (one of the sountrics seattoned
was Brazil). Although they have no funds to speak of they can probably find
enough money among wealthy supporters of the atts such as Maryedith GASCIA

im Caracas to get started. A possible trip by LIRING*3 to Venezuela as
proposed by ROWTON was ruled out by this Stacion which intends to limit
LIRING*3's involvement with VALDEZ and MORENO to the monitoring of their
plans, To “achieve. ‘this goal, LIRING*3 mist take some interest ia the:

 

 

Attachment + .
“Reports a/s para 1 USDER SEPARATE COVER : . I

Distribution: —
c/wuD w/ate

of __|w/o ate :

Bo URL AD WUMBER
: WOA$32635

 

    

os AE cs
261°798301

 

    

     

 

 

 
 

   
      
       
       
      
 
   
 
       
      
 
   
 
     
     

CONTINUATION OF cf
‘DISPATCH anaes

 

Mexican's comercial ventures. ZIRING?3 thus joined VALDEZ -and -MOREHO- ‘
im a new company “Colorlaz” based in Mexico for the production and - 1 =
sale of colored glass, Letterhead paper of this company is forwarded ‘ R

atgached to RONTOK’s 6 July report. “Colorluz™ is so far only # paper TT
company and the address listed in its letterhead is that of a workshop
belonging to a girlfriend ef VALDEZ by the nane of “Alejandra", VALDEZ
is currently producing samples cf colored glare t in that shop to be seng
to Maryedith GARCIA in Venezacts,

3. As for the questions raised fn paragraph 4 of CARACAS 7262 ead
fig IGGi-15550 concerning ROWTCd's relationshia with LIRING-3, the degree
to which ccatrol has been esteblished over that asset, and the tests thet
have been made of his claimed relationship with the Guater:lan guerrilles,
we would like to point out: 4

A, That an effort was made receatly to clarify the nature of -
ROWTON's relatioaship with both LIRING*3 and LIRING-4 in HOA=32243.
The long and short of it is that LIRiNG*?3 AND LIRING?4 are at the
point where they will do almost anything ssked by ROWION without
asking questions (this has been already touched upon several times
in the voluninous detailed and time coneuning reporting on this
operstion undertaken to keep Headquarters abreast of every minute

development in the hope of clarifying the very points raised oy
both Headquarters and the » It is no exaggeration
to say that LIRING*3 hae lived a new SE atamm hte anntare s-4oh

ROWTOH which he finds interesting and rewarding to the point that .
im spite of recurring crisis and second thoughts, be is unwilling
to break with ROWTON and go back to the wey he lived before meeting
him, LYRING-4, ca che cher hand, is grateful to ROWTON for helpizg
her keep a hush-ad she is very such in leve vith, Both are becosdag
more and more disillusioned with the Cubsn "revolutionaries" they”
meet. LIRING@4 recently adaitted to ROWTCH that phe bas little use
for the Cuban revolution and has nc desire to return to Cuba, This
does not mean that LIRING-3‘'s politicsi views are not orientated to
the left. After orolonged contact with ROWION, wha hag made deliherare r
efforts to raise his intellectral and material standards, there is
little question, Lowever, that LIRING?3 is sot as far to the left
_ as he was before and that he is much more of a realist. LIRING?4
“who ig not very politically minded just follows the beliefs of her
husband.

4

B, LIRING?3's safehouse (as opposed to the spertment where he
currently lives with his wife) is the target of a technical operation
and ig eleo covered by LIFEAT. Both prodects are reviewed in detail
by ROWION and his findings sent reguleriy to Headquarters, ROWTOH
and Cornelius L, PEUVION, in addition, both review the product ef the
LIFEAT coverage om the apartsent of LIRING-3 (LIRING@4's ex-boss),
LIRING*9, VALDEZ and GARCIA of the Guatemalan PAR have been the target
of Station surveillance, hile GARCIA has so far not been identified
by the LIEMBRACEs (and this is definitely the result or bad luck more
than specific evasive tactics on the part of GARCIA), the LIEMBRACEs
periodically sarveilled both LIRING?3 and VALDEZ (they also atteapred
to qurveii Enrique MORALES but the aan they followed turned out to be somes
the wrong one), This surveillance has so far produced nothing to
cast suspicion ca LIRING-3. On thecontrary, it has established ‘(ia
the case of GARCIA) thet LIRING-3 does weet a man corresponding to his 7
description of vARCIA. LIRING*3, a8 well as his wife, has also produced ~
an identikit ccuposite of GARCIA which was close-to that produced =. °
by the LIEMBRACEs and was recently thought by LIREBEL-2 to resemble ~
Wis CASTILLO Reida (see MEXICO CITY 2139 and HMMA"32598), a knowa .
Guatemalan Commairt im Mexico believed to be in contsct with the Fag, : :
When VALDRZ and MORENO recently started their discussions with hia, - -
LIRING-3, at his own initiative, had their diecussions recorded! Ia .
addition to the above efforts to check LIRING-3's activities, this i .
Stetion raized the possibility of having LIRING"3 SGSWIRLED, passing r
the WOPACT SGSWIRL operator as a technician working for a local | i
Mexican bank (Mexican banks use SGSWIRL fnvestigative techniques),
Headquarters acvised that no Spanish speaking SGSWIRL operater would
be available before 1 June (DIRECTOR 99386), To this Station's j .
knowledge, mo wore hag been heard on this topic from Headquarter; :

 

  

 

reece rerany

cownome | SECRETKAPOK (mine

 

 
