14-00000

. :
-_ 4 Ea

   

 

Tea ie a oe Trea Taal sein NEVED

«CONTINUATION OF i ee . . ‘ :
» 7 DISPATCH SECRET HMMA-34792

service tests the decision is reached not to continue develop-
ment of a leftist writer group press service, LIANCHOR will be.
converted to a roof project for the administration and funding

of singleton writer agents. Identity-1l, if recruited, will be -
told to use the LIANCHOR stationery and list of publishing
newspapers to develop his own prestige and readership abroad,

but he will not be ask. to find additional writers for the

press service. At the cnd of FY 1969 the LIANCHOR project will
be terminated as such and tts funds and such agents as have

been developed under LIANCHOR will be documented under Project

LILISP-E for FY 1970, 0° - Coda yh

pi. 3 : ‘

‘

  

for,;Willard C, CURTIS

    

fie rsrnrermer per rncw sats

 

 

 

 

 
 

IDENTITIES: 1

 

 

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT

 

to HMMA-34792

, we
pai

 

 

 

 

 

06,8

 

 

Alfonso’ ¥MARTINEZ Estevez, former personal
secretary to deposed Guatemalan. Communist. presi-

dent. _Jacobo ybo ARBENZ. >)

 

 

 

Manuel’ CALVILLO, Mexican author and editorialist.
in the Sunday literary “sections of Mexican 2

papers. ‘

06.6

 

 

 

Franc iscol*#ZENDEJAS, book critic for SE EGELS TOR"

 

 

Chronic alcohol ic,

 

 

 

06.06

 

 

 

 

at

 

06.06

     

ah Rm NARI ZSAO RE ANU

 
14-00000

‘ | vo SUNEINUAIIUN UF bog

2o 7 DISPATCH | SECRET> |  HMMA-34792

 

   

. 7 (
. because LIANCHOR cannot properly be run. from :
al VINLUCK) will describe to Identity-1 the probléms which
: he has~had in developing LIANCHOR and, in asking Identity-1
to take over control of LIANCHOR, will suggest that
Identity-1 use the LIANCHOR name and established publica-
tion outlets to broaden his prestige. in Latin, Americ;
without any thought of trying to oarn fees | INLUCK) will
also suggest that Identity-1] retaia Identities 6 and 9 to
help fill out the service, but that he gradually try to
draw in personal writer friends of definite leftist fame
and persuade them to contribute to LIANCHOR urely for
the reward of increased prestige. Finally LINLUCK} will
offer to continue to contribute material from time to
time from Guatemala which Identity-1, through his good
standing in the Mexican press, perhaps can publish in
Mexico. ’
Woh

b, If Identity-1 rejects recruitment, the next candi-
date for LIANCHOR chief is Identity-10, who has already
told @IMLUCK)that he is prepared to take over LIANCHOR
on a pro o|.ionary. basis to see whether it will enhance his
reputatio.. The Station feels that Identity-10 would be
easier to recruit than Identity-1. However, Identity-10
is not too well known in Mexico and is totally unknown
abroad. One of Identity-10's virtues is the fact that he
never formally quit the Communist Party and has done nothing
to irritate the Party. As economic and general reporter for
"EXCELSIOR" he offers placement potential. If Identity-1

‘~ does accept recruitment, the Station still intends to try

to recruit Identity-10 as a singleton under Project LIANCHOR,
possibly steering Identity-10 to Identity-1 and the LIANCHOR
press service after due consideration. The Station is also
interested in the possibility of recruiting Identity-10 in
order to send him to the World Youth ‘Festival at. Sofia, ;
since it is believed byl (LINLUCK) that Identity-1 still has
access to some worthwhile contacts in Central American
young Communist circles. a

16, Testing for Indications of Effectiveness to Determine
Future Direction of LYANCHOR Project:

a. It is estimated that it will not cost over U.S.
$200 to hire clipping services in Buenos Aires, Montevideo,
Santiago and Bogota for a three month trial period to test
whether newspapers which receive LIANCHOR material in those
cities are publishing the LIANCHOR material. The clipping
services will be asked to watch for articles with the
LIANCHOR by-line, the by=-lines of LIANCHOR writers and the
headlines or titles which are assigned by LIANCHOR to the
articles mailed to the newspapers.

 

 

 

   

|
|
|
|
|

 

 

 

b. If the clipping service tests show that newspapers
or periodicals in two of the above cited countries are
publishing LIANCHOR material, Station will continue to.
pursue the development of a small and responsive leftist
writer group ag one phase of the LIANCHOR operation. The
rationale behind this decision is that there is little
justification in operating a press service, even a cheap
one, with a readership limited to Mexico, Central America,
Venezuela and Bolivia. However, if the press service can
acquire, or has acquired, readership in any two of the
countries in 16-a above then it is felt that the total
areu coverage is significant and worth maintaining.

a 17, Conversion of LIANCHOR to Temporary Roof Project for
: Singleton Le 8 riter Assets: If as a result of clipping

I ts i UA CAT Pt FO SO BEN TSO ORC A UNTER SS PN Nc Serna Na

 

 

 
  

a

6

 

~D000R ou tiNUATION OF i. |
“ DISRATCH 4s S$ BCRET | HMIMA-34792

. of
. ¢.. As a penetration of a Communist Party Crxtucr
was a singleton. - Although as a former Communist leader

he has had experience in handling people, he has not

had experience in handling sub-agents for WOF IRM. There
was evidence during the reporting period that Erwwucs)o|
was having real trouble managing his co-workers in
LIANCHOR. However, handicapped by the fact that he was
not paying his co-workers fees or salaries, CINLUCK) 9}
probably did as well ag he could in controlling his
co-workers, The real fault Jay ip his poor selection

of co-workers.

ll. Effectiveness of LIANCHOR articles hnd Features: in
the Station's opinion thosa articies wh{ch(LINLUCK) wrote were
forceful and effective, but too long. ‘The articles written by
(Lnuck' 3 co-workers apparently were ineffective to the point
that they were not considered worth publishing. The Capriles
newspaper chain of Venezuela apparently felt that LINLUCK's)o
articles were well worth running, despite the fact that they
had to be published in installments. The leading newspapers
in,each of the Central Américan republics appeared to believe
that CLINLUCK 's) articles merited automatic publication. It is
assumed that(LINLUCK's articles were published regularly in

Bolivia du&lf> La Paz~Station assistance. However, because no o|

newspaper felt like paying fees to LIANCHOR or answering (LINLUCK
‘correspondence, it has not been possible to ascertain whether
LIANCHOR articles have been published with any regularity in
Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Colombia or Ecuador, It is too much
to ask third country stations to scan the press daily for articl
by seven different people. The Mexi¢co_ ation_h s appreciated
the assistance received from the (cardsast) Gan 3d8e)Gna Guatemala
City\Stations which have been the principal gource of the clip-
pings of(LINLUCK 's )LTANCHOR articles submitted as Separate Cover

Attachment "B" to this dispatch.

SECURITY

12... There have been no incidents of security nature
hazardous to the LIANCHOR project during the reporting period.

FINANCE AND SUPPORT

13, Finance: During 1 October - 30 May the LIANCHOR. .-
project expensesyfhave consisted of U.S. $5,600 in salary pay-
ments to(LINLUCK at U.S. $700 per month and U.S. $119 in cost
of mailing out DIANCHOR articles.

14. Support: Reproduction of the LIANCHOR articles for
mass distribotion to Latin American newspapers was done by the
Station using a Xerox machine.

PLANS [
—— . 0°
15, Replacement of (Lrniucr:
s 2

a, Provided Headquarters grants: POA and Identity-1
accepts recruitment by a Station case officer, LINLUCK
will be directed to approach Identity-1 some two weeks
after the recruitment .o\(LINLUCK) will tell Identity-1 that
he has come to Identity~I on the advice of Identity-6,
LIANCHOR member and friend of Identity=1 .o( LINLUCK) will
explain that he is returning to Guatemala to seek “& poli-~
tical career and must give..up the direction of. LIANCHOR

a

's

es

(62

 

 

 

 
 

0 L

 

. CONTINUATION OF ° 7 i ;
DISPATCH . SECRET

1 . =
| HMMA.-34792

and the open letter are submitted as Separate Cover
Attachment "C" to this dispatch, Costs of the print~
ing and distribution were charged to LILISP-X,

o

c. Via Identity-4 (mutdk)passed guidance material
to Mexico's top female poet, Margarita MICHELENA,
‘concerning YEVTUSHENKO. MICHELENA published a series
of professional criticisms ef YEVTUSHENKO as a poor” ,
poet and opportunist in the Mexican preas. Im April, .
immediately following YEVTUSHENKO's departure, & con-
densation of the MICHELENA critiques of YEVTUSHENKO were
published in the leftist political illustrated magazine
“IMPACTO" by LILISP-E. —

°

d. Identities 3 and 6 of tne LIANCHOR group also
published articles against YEVTUSHENKO in the rightist
daily "EL SOL", but the Station felt the articles were
too vitriolic ani unobjective to be a credit to LIANCHOR.
In fact, because of these articles the Station plans to
remove both Identities 3 ana 7 from LIANCHOR; for it is
obvious that both persons have long since lost all traces
of their former leftism and are extreme rightists.

EFFECTIVENESS :

2 ‘ ,
. 8. Views on LIANCHOR Effectiveness by Owner/Director of
Guatemala Daily WEL INPARCIAL™:

fY)
a. During Lrniuck*a) Easter visit to Guatemala City

oo he was told by the owner of "EL IMPARCIAL" that the 2

newspaper was only interested in publishing “INLUCK 's)

articles. The newspaper owner stated that (L NLUCK )was

a well-known personality in Guatemala and also wro :

interestingly. The owner also said that he had pub-

lished one series by Identity-4 because Identity-4 was

a Guatemalan who at one time had been important. However,

the owner pointed out that the other LIANCEOR writers

were unknowns and did not write well. He singled out

Identity-3 as. being a "menace to journalism" because much

of what she wrote amounted to libel or slander.

b. The "EL IMPARCIAL" owner said that he received.
the newspapers "EL DIA" of Honduras, “LA PRENSA GRAFICA"
of El Salvador, "LA PRENSA" of Nicaragua, "LA REPUBLICA” .
of Costa Rica, "LA ESTRELLA" of Panama and "ULTIMAS
NOTICIAS" of Caracas and had noted that these newspapers.
all published INLUCK's) articles but had not, to his
knowledge, published articles by any of the other LIANCHOR
writers,

1 _ 8 : of

c. When (LINLUCK) explained the cooperative nature of
“LIANCHOR, the "EL IMPARCIAL" man told (LINLUCK) that he -
could never hope to collect fees for His news service .

until the service became both famous and sought after.
The "EL IMPARCIAL" owner advised (LINLUCK) to find writers
tter known in Latin America. °'He suggested that if

O\ (LINLUCR) could not afford to pay his writers fees, he

should’persuade first class writers to contribute to
. LIANCHOR purely for the prestige of having their material
. publighed araqund Latin America, -

. : : fo)
: £8]

: 9. Effectiveness of LIANCHOR Writer Group and) LINLUCK) as
i a Covert Action Production Unit: ~ °

- 3 =
ree, ; a. LINLUCK) learned quickly that it was best not to
wee allow meetings of members of the LIANCHOR cooperative

 

 
 

Toye eh nD ake .

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH | . _ SECRET HMMA-34792-

 

 

 

press group. Of nine persons who belonged to the group
as of 15 January, three subsequently dropped out because

of differences of opinion which developed at group meet=-

In addition? @INLUC learaed that persons he had
selected partly because of their leftist records (Iden-
tities 3, 4, 7 and 8) had:long since ceased being leftists
and were prone to submit manuscripts with texts politically
Confused political

harmful to the image of LIANCHOR.
thinking and poor writing resulted in re ection of over

20 manuscripts during February-April by LL INLUCK! and the
case officer. Rejection of manuscriptslin turn angered

and insulted some of the writers.

ings.

b. The personalities and chmracter,,of some of the
writers have presented problems to (LINL' ck in directing
and developing the LIANCHOR group into, a productive unit.
Identities 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 had jo be goaded continually
by ILINLUCKjto turn in manuscripts on assigned themes.
BothgIdent ty-3 and Identity-7 turned out to be emotional
extremists, suffering at times from deep melancholy and
at other times from inexplainable rages which were re-
flected in their writings. As of this writing the Station
feels that the only reliable members of the group are
Identities 6 and 9, who should be kept as members of the
group as long as LIANCHOR is run as a group cooperative

 

press service. The unreliable but brilliant and versatile
poet/writer/lexicographer Identity=5 should be continued
as a contact of LIANCHOR for occasional emergency use
provided(LINLUCK' replacement can obtain any cooperation
from Identity-5.°| In summary the LIANCHOR group composed
of Identities 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 has proved ineffective and.
not too productive and the ineffective members should be

replaced.
of

10. Effectiveness of p/a (LINLUCRY
ba)

a. The list of articles and features by CInLuckS
under Separate Cover Attachment "B" is by no means the
measure of the agent's writing and production capability.
After the. agent dusted off and mailed out several of his
old article, series in December 1968 the case officer

(LINLUCK) to reduce his production in ratio to

_ instructed,
the manusétipts of other LIANCHOR writers which were
mailed out, The case officer was concerned that LIANCHOR
would appear, fo potential client newspapers to be primarily
a vehicle rollcaweuck''s) lengthy political essaye in con-
in the LIANCHOR prospectus that

trast to the statement
LIANCHOR was a press service combining articles on cultural,

educational, economic and social as well as political topics
by many writers, During the agent's two final months of
service he has been given authorization to write as much

as he can on the Vietnam issue and other topics for the
purpose of building up his name in Guatemala before he

returns there to enter politics. j
Bs)

b. While production of articles was not (Lintuck's|
weak point, his selection and handling of the LIANCHOR
press service writers appears to have been weak. He has
been too long on the fringes of the foreign exile group
in Mexico and his contacts among leftists in Mexico are -
no longer significant. In addition, the agent appears to”
have gone the way of many former Latin American Communists.
in that his theoretical solution to some of the political,

economic and social problems of Latin America can no longer

\

be termed leftist.

 

 

£ Gann

 

nO KePnonueriong
Sel

+
A

Ar blilen
 

 

‘CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

    

SECRET | | HMMA-34792°

~

mechanism of LIANCHOR (a cooperative and self-supporting press
service not subsidized by WOFIRM) does not seém operationally
---viable, the LIANCHOR project renewal request will be submitted
fe an administrative and financial roof project for the indi-~-
vidual handling and exploitation of singleton leftist writer
assets. . :

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

3. One information report was disseminated in May, 1968,

based on information acquired by (LINLUCK)

of ‘

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

 

4. Formal Organization of LIANCHOR Press Service:

a. The Reference "A" project proposal reports all
significant incidents in the development of the
LIANCEOR press service by! (LINLUCK and the Mexico ;

tation through the first week of December, 1967, whe
LINLUCK)set about bringing together the candidates for
fembership in the cooperative press service. As Head-
quarters will recall the project, nvolved paying a —
salary of U.S. $700 per month ts cintucx in return for
which he was to persuade a number of leftist and center-
left writers to join togethér as contributors to the
LIANCHOR (Identity-2) press service. The contributing
writers or members of the press service were to agree
to waive fees for a trial period during which the press
service was to develop paying clients among Latin
American newspapers and periodicals.

C

b. CINLutK) eid three meetings of candidate members
of the p¥ess service during December in the home of
Identity~3. The gHetings were unruly but everyone at
the meetings agre to contribute material to the press
service and submi@fito editing and control of the material
by (LINLUCK o| Howeya , what with the 20 day Christmas
festivitids which Waralyze all Mexicans from 15 December
to 5 January of each year, none of the LIANCHOR members
other than Identity-4 submitted a manuscript to (LinLucK) of
until late January. . .

 
  
  
     

oO

c. (Linh) austea off the best and most timeless of
his fall “1967 articles and mailed them out with a pro-
spectus to newspapers suggested by third country station
throughout Latin America, At the end of December (LINLUCK) |
became. seriously ill and the project was dormant until
mid-January. In the latter part of January (LINLUCK) held
a. sober business meeting of the LIANCHOR pressgroup at
his home and by the end of January the memberg began to
submit manuscripts.

_ »
5. The Search for a Replacement for p/A (LINLUCK:

t
a? INLUCK)was formally terminated in the summer
of 1966,~ He spent much of his termination bonus on

and setting the family up there in an apartment and plac-
ing his sons in school. Following the termination, LINLUC
was again placed on salary while WOFIRM subsized the~ ~
publication of a book which he had written in support of

Bots ie wman WAT. 2h haat antd wall in Mavinn and

sending his family back to France (the wife is French) °
ot.

   

Fe ae

sentmensDecremee 8 weber

a3

ODUCTIONS

 

     
104-10071-10324) -

 

    

 

Grassinicniow PROCESSING ACTION

 

 

HE. : .
DISPATCH [| sscust | smmcm
tO :

oe oo Chief, Western Hemisphere Division a MO INOEENG BROURED
a fo Attention: Chief, WH/1 ZZ ONLY QUAITED GES
\ ea - (AN WUOGE INDE UNG
\ BP hasy—- —-ChAed..WH/MHSPAWN ee

Chief of Station, Mexico City \"\ ver

') oe OPBRAT IONAL/LIANCHOR .

ats. Progress Report for December 1967 - iay 1968

ACTION RYOMURID REFERENCES .
Action Required: None; FYI

; .
i: References : A. HMMA-33670, 13 December 1968
‘ B, Mexico City~5688, 25 May 1968

SUMMARY

; 1. During the reporting period the LIANCHOR leftist

t - writer press service produced 35 individual articles and _

ei serialized political feature articles which were distributed
to 20 newspapers throughout Latin America and are known to
have been published regularly by at. least 12 newspapers.
Despite this acceptable production rate, the project has not ,
achieved the objectives set for it by the Mexico Station and
in the Project Outline. ,

2. Prior to submission of a project renewal request in
late June, 1968, the Mexico Station will attempt to convert
“4g the LIANCHOR operation into a more effective and politically
H ‘more leftist operation. Four of,s8ix LIANCHOR press service
| writers will be dropped and P/A LINLUCK will be replaced,
hopefully by Identity-1, a respectedlindependent leftist
H Mexican editorialist for the prestige center-left daily
A : "EXCELSIOR". If by the end of June, 1968, the operational

     
  

° wn
i Ee
: Continued.... <ik
i 3}.
i Attachments: >
i A. Identities (u.s.c.) 3)
: /B. Translation & Articles (u.s.c.) Sie
: C. Handbill, Brochure, Open Letter (u.s.c.) Pee

S

 

Distribution: : q q7/

- C/WHD wo/atta [5 COPY

 

 

 

i <
- C/WH/1 w/atts A, B and C (u.s.c.) =
} 1 - C/WH/MHSPAWN w/atts A, B and C (u.s.c.) et
ne a ' Fe, cee 3

H cmossmeeneio2|8|8©6©6©)©0600UOO™O™~—~—CS oe as reneneeaes |.) (re ~ oo =

; : : ae . . u

; HMMA=34792 cones 3 June 1968 &;
i ee To LASSIEICATION a QS HE NUMBER — *

: SECRET $0-126-38/3

 
 

 

 

 

7 CONTINUATION OF I ie fovea RITE BNET PO
© DISPATCH SECRET — | HMMA-34792

\
‘
in South America accepted the book but would not send
o| GINLUCK) his share of the sales, wiich was to be used
to repiy WOFIRM the cost of publishing the book. in
the late fall of 1967, {LINLUCK] spent six weeks in
Guatemala where he rodched agreements with the Guate~
malan Defense Minister, Rafael ARRIAGA Bosque, whereby
the Defense Ministry was to pay LINLUCK U.S. $4,000
. for the right to publish 10,000%Copies of his first
book. The U.S. $4,000 was to be paid by LINLUCK to
WOFIRM as partial reimbursement of the costs of ‘pub-
lishing the JMROD book. During the visit to Guatemala,
o\ LINLUCK) was told by ARRIAGA and other Guatemalan
. government officials that he could expect 4 consular
. appointment by the summer of 1969.

b. Headquarters and the Mexico Station were agreed
that as soon as he could organize LIANCHOR and find a
suitable replacement! (LINLUCK) should be terminated and
leave Mexico. Following the’receipt of the LIANCHOR
project approval in early 1968, the LIANCHOR case officer
told (LINLUCK) that he was expected to find a replacement
meeting WOFIRM approval and be ready to turn the opera-
tion over to his replacement by the end of March, 1968.

ol(L INLUCK) proposed Identity=-4, who had shown the most
interest in the LIANCHOR press service and had been the
first to submit articles. By accident the case officer
was forced to' listen to an hour's conversation between °
Identity-4 and(LINLUCK after Identity-4 came to (LINLUCK's
home, interrupted a meeting between the case officer and

ol CLINLUCR) and the case officer sat trapped in a separate
room ufbeknownst to Identity-4. From the conversation
the cage officer observed that Identity-4 was actually a
political rightist, believed,LINLUCK)to be an LNHARP
agent, had grandiose plans dy using’ LNHARP funds to
mushroom LIANCHOR into a continent-wide anti-Communist”
movement and was married to a neurotic woman who had
hired a private detective agency to check on her husband's
activities®| (LINLUCK) was instructed to quietly ease
Identity-4 out of LIANCHOR, to cease holding group meet=-
ings of LIANCHOR writers and to try to prevent further
contact between Identity-4 and other members of LIANCBHOR.

c.0|Identity-5 was selected as the next candidate to
replace (LINLUCK)as P/A. Identity~5 was technically,
linguistically,” intellectually and professionally well
qualified to head LIANCHOR. During the period of develop-
ment and assessment of Identity-4 by LINLUCK,cIrdentity-5
wrote an excellent article on Soviet intelléctual piracy.
However, Identity-5 proved difficult to contact and
control and turned out to be leading a personal life
which would have detracted seriously from his ability
to administer LIANCHOR £((LINLUCK) was told to keep in -
touch with Identity-5, but to look for still another
candidate.

d. In early April ARRIAGA sque’ Was exiled to Miami.
With the Station's concurrence (LINLUCK\went to Guatemala
: during Easter to confer with Guatemalan President, Julio
. MENDEZ Montenegro, and the new Defense Minister concern-
ing his own future of The President said he had not
forgotten \LINLUGK) but would not-be able to give him a
Lo consular post until the outset of 1969. The President
cet, algo said he would not be opposed to LINLUCK's) returning
a to Guatemala and entering politics. of

 
 

 

. : 7 . ‘

= - UTP a SOOT 7
_ CONTINUATION OF ° oo, ce |
"DISPATCH | . “sS ECRET

 

Tea Tone

HMMA~34792

oO .

a. upon GrNveKs return to Mexico -he asked Dhether
there was any possibility that he could be kept on after
30 June 1968 for an indeterminate period as LIANCBOR P/A
until some outside job showed up. The case officer said
he would discus#e the matter with Headquarters, put felt:
that in the interests of(LINLUCK's family and his own: ;
career it was high time’that LINLUCK étrike out on his own.
Replacements were again reviewed and it was decided that ,
the best candidate would be Identity-1, who had turned °
down membership in LIANCHOR because he wanted immediate
fees for anything he wrote. Identity-6 of the LIANCHOR
group, a friend of Identity-1, war queried as to Identity-1's
personal life and, as far as can Le discovered, Identity=-1
lives a quiet life with his wife and family and is highly
respected in Mexican intellectual circles both as an author/
editorialist and as an independent leftist. Reference "B"
and "PLANS" below report the Station's plans for possible
recruitment and subsequent utilizetion of Identity-1 as
P/A of LIANCHOR.

; 6. Production of Articles and Features by LIANCHOR: of
Separate cover attachment contains a translation of a (rnLucy
report written J. May 1968 on articles and feature articles pro-
duced and distributed during. the period 15 December 1968 to ‘

30 April 1968, Case officer comments are included along with
information about articles prepared and distributed in May.

oO .
7. Ganev) Involvement in Covert Action Operations Targetted
Against Soviet Poe evgen arch=-Apr :

0
a. In March (LINLUEK) drafted an open letter to Soviet
poet Yevgenyi YEVTUSHENKO asking the Russian to use his
influence to persuade the Soviet government to-end the
persecution of Soviet intellectuals, artists, writers and
- poets .o| LINLUCK, managed to obtain the signatures of stu-
dents, professors, actors, dancers, writers and intellec-
tuals for his open letter and then persuaded the publisher
of his books to print thousands of copies, yhich were
distributed by other assets of the Mexico Station. A
copy of the open letter was published in "EXCELSIOR" on
the day of YEVTUSHENKO's arrival in Mexico for what was
originally billed as a personal trip. Because of the
open letter and critical press coverage of YEVTUSHENKO 's
rude behavior towards the press on arriving at Mexico
City airport, the Russian Ewbassy called a special press
conference the evening of the day of the poet's arrival.
At the press conference YEVTUSHENKO spoke with outrage
of the open letter, carefully dodging a number of questions
asked by the letter, and chided the signers of the letter
for claiming there was absolute literary freedom in Mexico,
asking how there can be freedom anywhere in the world as
long as there is no freedom in Vietnam, YEVTUSHENKO's
remarks about the open letter left no doubt that he had
come to Mexico as a Soviet propagandist and not as a rebel
poet, ;

ol .

b, Cintuc) also produced a handbill quoting the
telegram by SoViet intellectualg to the "Consultative
‘Conference of Communist Parties" at Budapest, asking for
an end to Soviet persecution of intellectuals in the USSR.
The handbill featured two pen and ink drawings of imprisoned
Soviet poets Sinyavsky and Daniel. He also arranged for
the printing in Spanish of an authoritative study of inci-
dents surrounding the Galanskov-Dobrovolseky trial in

‘brochure form, Thousands of copies of the handbill and
Leen ene Ata dintgedhuénd hu Qtatian aaaeta during

           

 

 
