14-00000

     

 

+ .
3 e
. . 4 } .
9. The daughter of Fendrix is engaged to Lewis ("Lon")
Constantine, who is applying for a job with the Agency. Ne has paused
e .. i f > . = ¥
certain exams and was to have an interview in Weshington on Hi Bay
iS followed by a physical exam shortly afterwards, At vitch has developed
7 in that he was or “tpn: ally consider

ed for some sort of a jeb in the phote-
: graphic ficld, but he has been told the job has nov boen filled by someone

who returned to the job so that inctea ar
2

rane

 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 

a contrack status would give him, ‘an

some offer now being made > by TRS,
f nen

 

 

 

 

would be possible to check what the situatiar

Agency's intentions were toward this

im any way the de
+

wes carctel a

 

hi desree of concern a
ciiers. ZY replied that as far as I wa
ona contract basis who preved himeseli te be of excep tlons “ily .
capability coyld end up 2s a career employee with ua, bub it wel depend
on employ racnt ceilings, etc. at the time such a switch was actively
considered. we seemed gatisfied with this answer, I said I would check

 

+

i
My imp#ession | is that He endrix is s net overly { fond of “this fch
respects him and wor wlG not try to,interfere on his behalf either way.

 

 

Jonathan G. Ho
* ciWH/ CA

 

  
14-00000

   

~2~

 

3, Hendrix commented to me tht the general fecling in N.Y.
in that there may be two o pencira ikione in the Weshincton office, two in
the N.Y. office,.and one in their Cleveland office. He did not cleborcte,

- 4 Wendrix made the following comments about the [TT /Chile
documents:

Te, 4A. He was aware that Raymond Brittenham, whem he
described as a senioxy Vice Presidant and a bit of 2 fuddy-duddy |
who enjoys Haroid Genes to coufidence, had first seen Tehm MeCane
and then come to Washington recently to talk with Arn sency represe
about the ITT/Chile docunente, ‘Ons proposal that Brittcnuham had
thought of discuesing with the Agency ¥ was that sevara sensitive
documents be turned over to the Avency for cafekeaping, He did
not scem to know whether this had actually been discussed hy
Brittenham with the Agency. Hendrix szid that Drittenhar
Giccugced with the Agency what LF Y might fey in the §
bearings, what the Anency might say, ete. ( did not-ac
having known that Drittenham mict with Agency roprose
eaying that thie was presumably 2 7th floor matter, He might
have believed me, but I thought ib hetier not lo confiren the fact

to him that «2 contact had in fact taken place since he anpcorently

did vat falk to Brittexham himself about this. }

  

      

ve)
te
22)
at
oy

 

re

a

  

. oe B.. Fnu Schafer, the lawyer of the firm in Washington
yetained by ITT as counsel for the © expected | Seuate peerings on

 

Ghilean activities of LITT, has told ITT officizis woth @ thinks:
the timing and intensity of the Sona te eub-comimittes i int exest in

the Chilean activities of ITT will depend on the wonere tp ouical
situation in the U.S,, particularly in Viet Nam. Schafer has bean

 

in touch with Pat Holt, the sub-committee aide, :
- So, C. None of the 1TT documents : Chite ha ave been turned
“- over yet to the Senate sub-committee. The docurnents are still
being worked on by ITT. Whon pressed ar to the quantity involve thy

Uonavin soid the tote] is about 500.documents,

 

 

 
104-10062-10134

 

  

15 May 1972

MEMORANDUM OF CONVE RSATION

SUBJECT : Meeting with Hel Hendrix, HW May 1972

1. Hal Hendrix called my home on 10 May, saying th t he was
in Washington and wished to see me, Arrangements were later rnade to
mect him in downtown Washington at a street corner at 8:00 am on
U May. I picked him up as scheduled, and after driving around awhile
we bad breakfast at the Marriot Meutcl in Rosslyn, after which I drove

%
him to the airport so he could catch the 10:36 a.m. plane to New York,

 

   

2. Hendrix had a nuraber of poiuts to convey, but Rone of them
were of such importance for him to have. made a trip te }
é

n Washington basically to ses Terey | armifin ef the Yirne/Lite bureau
to discuss a lecd on who might hzve leaked IVT decurnents to Jack Ands<
Hendrix exptai ned that he was recently told by a "Caribbean ruffien"
named Fou Goodfriend that the pereon who furnished the IT‘ documenta

 

to Jack Anderson was Irving Davidson, an old fiend of Anderson who sore

years. ago had once set aside a ecsk in his office for Anderson to use on
occasion. Goodfriend said that the picture of Dita Beard with a number
of hex Washington contacts published carly in the YLT scandal days had

 

included Davidson somewhere in the group, Davidson is described as a

lobbyict for onc ox more atin American Governments as well as for

Isveecl, Hannifin is consiés ored a very knowledgceble and trusted friend

by Hendrix who wanted Hannifin's opinion wheather Davidson might in

fact he ao ecurce of Anderson's, Hannifin'a initial bnpression wes

that this was a ,emote possibility, but he said he would check around and
try and talk to Davidson himself to sce whether he could peta rise on

the question of JIT, Hendyix caid he came away from the mecting with
Hannifin pretty well convinced that the load to Davidson as the sonxee an
ITV cocuments was probably net a food one,

wede s

 

 

 
14-00000

a)

 

-3- a .

 

x

D. The three documents Hendrix mentioned to me at oar
last mecting as being incriminating from the point of viovr of
documenting ITT funds of political activities in Chile have not
been destroyed, ITT's chief lawyer in N.Y. has told Herdriz:
that while away ona trip recently, at least four young lewyers
in his office read these documents. He tried to transfer onc
of the lawyers out of his office, and the man threatened to blov
the whistle on ITT over these documents if transferred, One
of the other four lawyers feels equally strongly about t
documents, Asa yresult, the documents cannot be destroyed.
lt is not clear, however, whether ITT plans to turn thes.>s throes
documents over to the Senate, Evidentally ITT had firsthaped = -
to turn these documents over to the Agency for safekeeping in
preference to turning them over to the Senate.

RESG

BE. It has been determined by ITT lawyers that biacking
out proper names in decurnents before they turn the documents
over to the Senate sub-commities is nermissable. ‘Ihe ITT Bes
jiawyers are now going over all 500 documenta to do this, concentrai
on the names of Chileans. Uf they finally turn over the three
sensitive documents to the committee, names of persons, baonke,
and GQnding mechanisms will be deleted, but the basic purpose of
IYT funding Alessandri cannot be hidden.

 

: ¥. In discussing these three documets, Hendrix said
that thé manin N.Y. to whom JIT was to have psid the money for
Alessandri was (fnu) Orchard) a Chilean employed by UN Seerztaris
(rather than a member of the Chilean Mission to the UN). The corep:
through which the payments were to be made was the Lene Star
Shipping Company. (This agxyees with information in the files).
Lacked whether the Swiss Bauk account nussber for other trans-
actionaz was also listed there, and Hendrix looked puzzled and eaid
that no Swise Bank account was involved. When I pressed and
aid roy understanding wes that earlier he had told me meney for
the Edwards proup went through a Swies account, he merely.
said theve were no references to thot in these three decuments,
He then said one of the three documents was unfortunately a
ruescage from Gerrity authorizing thet the Alessandri movement t
given “half the sum recommended by Hendrix," .

   

 

     

  
14-00000

     

5. Hendrix spoke by telephone to Berrellez cn 9 or 10 Riay at
which time Berrellez reported on a meeting that day with FU: AIG -2
in Buenos Aires, This was the first time that ey F os met since their
early April meeting in N.Y. Berrellesz tol aFUBRIG that he hed not
been able to make the deposit on the second $100, 060 ‘for reasons Hendrix
had explained earlier to me, (FUDRIG-2 was concerned by this and asked
that IT & do everything possible to resume these payments since he had.
money troubles. (Berrellez rernerked, however, BRRIG-2 seemed
in very food spirts paxsonaliy, and quite optimistic ubout the chances

 

of the opposition in Chile). Hendrix plans to recpen the question of resuming

payments to the Edwards people in Chile when he pets back to N.Y. ‘and
sees Gerrity,

6, The U.S. manager of the ITT telept hone manufacturing plant
in Chile slipped up to the States a faw days azo and rep orted that he
thought the government would be moving in on the ITT property very
soon. He had already been authorized by the company to send } Ms
furniture up, ITT is also asking B at
U.S. for a visit, I reinarked that my recollection was that Holmes
was on rather good personal contact with President Szivador Allende,

and Jose T oj, but Hendrix commented that even Folracs was now under
suspicion by the Government of Chile.

 

niamin Holme

 

me un to the
up to the

7. Hendrix heard yesterday frorn Bob Deach (phonetic) of the

Scripps Howard office in Washington that Ambassador Edward Korry had —

left his position at OPIC and is now the president of a book seller's
associction according toa press item which appeared within the last

‘two weeks. Hendrix was unaware of this and asked whether I knew

anything about it which I said I did not, nee
&, We had a rather interesting explanation of the by-play in

Chile on turning the ITT nationalisation question over te the Congress to

decide, Berrellexz reports that there has been a delay in Allende's

proposal Urat Congress handle the ITT nationalization because of

Gisagroe:mont on how to proceed, The fear of some hard-linexs FAS

that the povernment was dot being tough enough on ITT. Allende's intent

apparently is to make a proposal that the Congress would be for

 

reject heeeby giving the Prosidcnt a chance te calla plebiscite on
issue w being abouLITT, he could not possibly lese. An inter

 

thouch:.

 

 

 

 

 

 
