 

The missirg piece is that where the Sovernsent is e« party the courts wear _

blinders, All they asx ‘# cro forma ctservance. The IsRA people know
this and teke care to fsliow legal o> quasi-lesui procedures in thei>

selsuree, They file 6 carer that such and such a property 1a “urder eval-

vation." Then if a court case is trozght the jucze rules it out as suk
judice since the matter is still in acuinistrative process, Soze Liré
evaluetions have been litizated, hovever, and in a few cases the Suprese
Court Chief Justice Aecexces has raisec the Dnhé set price, mowing that
euch action ia politics] suicide.

c. Apresl of the revolution to Students, while none of the first
elass professional veorie any lonzer teve exy use for Cestro re retains
eonsiderstle evident szpcort. This is cartly the recicslisa zatural to
youth and partly the erpeei that « cectralizec sirtsture wrich can ast
swiftly bes in a country where the free dexccratic systez hes failed to
work. ke (the U.S.) have an opportunity to win soze of the youth end
anthers 1% we will eet in ench a vee oc UIT] tmenive ennfidanca ther with
our cooperetion things will be better for the common man. ve neal the
sort of conficence that Presicent Frasclin Rousevelt was alle to convez.

At Bogota we have rezsinec the initiative-=ths protles will te to xeep it.

d. Comente on E) ties.

1) Fernando de la Riva: iewyer and owner of suger fielce,
refineries, etc. A very weelthy nan vko sterted with nothing. few
figkt!.g hard to keep weat he can. Kot suiteble for high political
office but verhaps zood prospect for surpert of exti-Castro forces.

Able to travel lezaliy anc to aeet, outsice of Cuba, anyone interested
in battling Fidel. Forced ty xs Guevara to turn Gver to the Gcvern-.

ment 51% of hie stock in certain of his interests. Hes son at Taie
end contact can te arranged wie Mr. Menning. .

2) Raul Ros: Have the feeling he is not long for his Job.
Very nervous,
Raulito*, may te useful if feather is kicked out. The son ia sherp,

 

itchy, voluatle, excitable—a nervous wreck, His son,

able, exbitious, totally untrustworthy. Attended Coluntia University,

is merried to Italisn girl. Mr. Manning will keep in contact for
whatever can be gleaned.

3) Supreme Court Chief Justice Menendez: With a change of
governsent might te useful. as szown soxe guts on the TRA CA8ES.

4) Che Guevere: Che mede a uletake when he put his name on
new terepeao notes sizply sa The. There is much criticisa of this

 

Slack of dignity in Cuba. Che bas an attractive perscuslity anda j

good mind, idas teen in revoluticoary activities since he was fifte
@uite frank in telling people wast he intends to éo—trouble bes be
no one telieved hia.

 

eas
“a
i

om
‘*

i
“4
i
J

 

 
 

 

$04-40475-10081) =

 

 

 

0 in ~
. oO ue ot
MEMORANCUM POR: The Reeowd

SOBJECT ® Meeting with Mr. Fayliss Mecning and Mr. Horecio Hi Godoy

1, Mr. Jacob Esterline and the ucdersizmed zet with “Mr. Marning and he.
Gocoy from 15%0 to 1720 at the Shorehes hotel (foaz 5 7) cn 14 Septeater
1960. Mr. Manning ic e professor et Tale Lew Sctcol. ir. Godoy, an Argen=
tinien citizen, is a student at the sexe scrool. according te tr. Yenning,
Mr. Cacoy is cevoting hie life to the struggie against toteliterianiaa,
including Perorisa and Commmisn. At Iala be bes set up the *inter dneri=
ean Legal Study Group" to interest students in this fight. dr. Manning
econo latecestct (bis father ver fn Latin Arerice (or lors. nertodes in. the
1926's) and with Mr. Godoy took a group of six or seven American lew stue
dents to the recent meeting in Savane of the International dcecesy of Law.
Mr. Manning has bed nuaercus contacts with the dAcecey. He mnows Mr.
Eissell and Mr. Irecy tarres end has met “r. Scnafer, Colonel J. 2. King,
and a Mr. Marvin O'Connel (he was rot ure of this last nate), foth b+: and
Mr. Godoy plan extensive travels in Letin America cezinning next year. Mr.
Manning is concernec at the ummber of persons from Cis who have cetriefed
bin end requestec that in the future be heve ore constart contact. He says
ke bas given the sare report to five ciffe.ent pecpie. Mr. Eaterline told
bim that we would try te cee te it that the aese cerson woulc see him in the
future, Hear the end of the aeeting Mr. Manning said he wished to make it
clear that although he ani Mr. Gocoy will gladly ccojerete with the agency
neither of them has any intention of Lecoming a CLA acent.

2. Information end comeenta from Mr. Manning anc Mr, Godoy ‘included the :
following: ,

a. Ictermetions] seaceny of Lew Meeting. The meeting was alaost
“hermetically sealed,” sassions vere held in a rcom that would sccommodate
only thirty, and the leaier of the 2eeting, Scrreme Court Justice Ernesto:
Diigo (7) gave evidence of teing “a ceaten, cefeetec aan" woo bas given:
up the fickt. Mario less vas invited tut nace nmery excuses and did not |
attend, The Cuben delegatds reply to questicns cn acuses of press freedom,
Allegal seisures of property, and Commniat influence toox the stand that
these things just dic act exist. “ke Sulen Jucges are eeexing refuge in.
technicalities. If certain surface coupliance vith legal requirenents are
met they do rot look teceath that surfsce to find the realities. “shus jus-
tice is teing subvertec uncer a lersi franevors or facade, ‘Shey are cut;
of touch with political processes. ; |

b. Aererien Reform gud Frozerty gelmures. On the surfacs, again, |
the ordinary processes of law ottain. davana is surprisicgly orderly and
dieciplined. Ordinary criminal cases go tircugh the courts zuch as before.

1
Te) BAR RPEEW

;

|

4

|
t
1
'
!
i
|
i

tua
 

5) (PSU) Corects: attorney of the Foreign Ministry, Getting
fel up wit the revolution, is otviously in trouble. May have some
foture use.

6) érsendo Charciet: Cuban teaching at Yale Lav School. Kot
wery trigrt tut hes ell the gossip atout Cuan personalities.
Attended iartmouth.

7) Forts Kowalsxy (7): Cuben on exchange professorship at
SMU, teaching lav. Prefesses tc ta violently anti-Castro. assisted
Americans at the corference. Gave the impression of teing a secret
agent. ,

8} Leis Conte gezero: Conte made the mistake of uncereetimating

Castro. Ha thought the revolution could Le stopped at «a certain stage,

not realizing that weile be lives Castro sust keep Griving straight
ahead.

3. June Cotte. As we Were avout W istry rue cme col ieee eon ISD
other person we enculd know atout—~June Cotte. Mies Cobbe is en énerican
working for the Cutan Goverment, at tines with INRA anc at other tines with
the office promoting tourisz. Trey set her on the advice of Locters Fla,
Wonan culturel celarate in USFRA. She was staying at the Carite Cilton end
was very helpfal to them while they were in Havana. They gethered that she
served at one tice es one of Cestro's secreteries, vorxing with or under Celia
Sanchez, a Comzunist.. She is 34 or 33, reportedly once had a love affair with
a Major in tne revolutiorary aray wro either got killed or left her. She also
is reportedly e food friend of Luis Conte Aguero. Miss Cokke returned to tne
U.S. on the sase plane with 4r. Goaoy. Ferraps tecause aie felt aia could
alk sore freely to en Argentinian, anc perkaps because she felt attracted to
Mr. fcdoy, she told his that she wes very worriec tecause there sre Communists
among the Americans at the U.S. intassy in Cuba and these Communists sre giving
datassador Bonesl aivice whieh leads him to make mistaxes in his cealings with
Cute. She aleo saic something to the effect that she has been warned Ly CLA
{or the FEI?) about her activities in Cula. to

&e Mr. Manning can be reached ty sail addressed to him at the Yale Law
School, as can Mr. Godoy. Mr. Manning is leaving tocey for Yale anc Mr. Godoy
touorrow. While here Mr. Godoy is at the TCA. D %

 

a!

 
