74-00000

21 April 1958

EMBASSY OF THE UNION OF
SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

Note No. 9

The Embassy of.the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
presents its compliments to the Department of State of the United
States of America and, referring to the Aide-Memoire of the Depart-
rnent of State dated March 31, 1958 and containing a reply of the
Government of the United States of America to the Aide-Memoire of
the Soviet Government dated March 5 concerning a violation of the
Soviet state border in the Far East by an American military jet air-.
craft, has the honor to communicate the following:

In the reply Aide-Memoire of the Department of State an
attempt is made to deny the fact of an American military aircraft .
having violated the Soviet border.

As has already been communicated, the Soviet Government has
at its disposal carefully verified data on this violation, the reliability
of which leaves no room for doubt. According to these data, on March 2,
1958, at 4:05 a.m. Moscow time, an American military reconnaissance
aircraft of the Lockheed U-2 type, having appeared from the direction
of the Sea of Japan, violated the state border of the Soviet Union in the
area of the settlement Velikaya Kema, 32 kilometers south of that:
settlement. Then the violating aircraft deeply penetrated the airspace
of the USSR and, after remaining over its territory for a considerable
period of time, passed beyond the limits of the Soviet territory 45 kilo-
meters south of the Olga Bay at 8:1l a.m.

In the light of the established facts the reply of the Government
of the United States of America can in no way be recognized as satis~
factory. Naturally, the question arises as to how to explain such a
reply of the American Government: whether it was misled deliberately
by its military representatives in the Far East or whether it considered
it possible to protect such persons subordinate to it, who, without re-
gard to the possible consequences, sanction violation of Soviet borders,
thus creating a threat of international complications.
i400000 ry

Such a reply of the Government of the United States of America
to the communication of the Soviet Government cannot fail to cause
serious concern, the more so since the new case of violation of Soviet
airspace took place after warnings on the part of the Government of
the USSR to the effect that American authorities should take the
necessary steps to prevent such violations.

In connection with the foregoing the Soviet Government expects
that the Government of the United States of America will undertake
further investigation of this act of violation of the airspace of the
USSR by an American military aircraft and will punish severely those
guilty of this violation.

The Soviet Government also expects that the Government of
the United States of America will take the necessary steps to prevent
violations of Soviet airspace by American aircraft in the future and _
states that in the event of new violations full responsibility for their
consequences will rest with the Government of the United States.

 

Washington, D. C.. April 1958
74-0000

 

‘for the cause of peace will ensue when an American plane with such a

The attention of the Government of the USA is invited to
the fact that in the present situation the violation of the airspace of
the USSR by an American military aircraft takes on a particularly
dangerous character since, as has been repeatedly reported, Ameri-
can military planes make flights around the clock over many countries :
of the world carrying thermonuclear bombs. The Government of the :
USA cannot fail to be aware of what genuinely catastrophic consequences H

 

load will find itself shot down.

The attention of the Government of the USA has already been .
previously directed to cases of violation of the state boundaries of : :
the Soviet Union by American military aircraft. However, as proven
by the case cited, the authorities of the USA have not taken the necessary
measures to prevent such violations.

It is absolutely obvious that it is the duty of the governments of
the USSR and the USA to do everything possible to prevent any acts . ,
capable of complicating the situation and the relations between the
Soviet Union and the USA.

The Soviet Government cannot but protest against the violations
of Soviet frontiers by.an American military aircraft and it expects that
the Government of the United States will punish severely those guilty
of the violation of the airspace of the USSR which has taken place and
that it will take steps to prevent such violations in the future.

Taking into account the present situation, where a summit con-
ference is being prepared, and also the spirit and purpose of the nego-
tietions being conducted between our governments, the Soviet Government
would not like to make this matter public or subject it to discussion in
the UN,

The hope is expressed that this matter will be settled satisfac-
torily between the governments of the USSR and the USA and that there
“ill be no need for the Soviet Government to resort to other means for

its settlement.

 

{initialled by M. Menshikov) Washington, March 5, 1958
 

 

5 March 1958

_ EMBASSY OF THE UNION OF
SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

AIDE MEMOIRE

According to precisely established data, on March 2, 1958, at
4:05 hours Moscow time, an American military jet aircraft, having
appeared from the direction of the Sea of Japan, violated the state
tordex of the Soviet Union in the area of the settlement of Velikaya
Kema and penetrated into the airspace of the Soviet Union, remain-
ing over its territory for a considerable period of time. Thereafter,
the aircraft left in the direction of the Sea of Japan in the area south
of the Olga Bay.

The information on this violation has been carefully checked
and there is no doubt as to its authenticity. The military representa-
tives of the United States, who in this case acted possibly without the
knowledge of the Government of the United States, will perhaps deny
the said violation, as has happened in the past. However, sucha
denial cannot eliminate the fact of violation itself. In any case, the
Soviet side would have no interest in commenting on this incident if
it had not actually taken place.

A the present time, when negotiations are being conducted
on the holding of a summit meeting which could contribute to an im-
provement of relations and to strengthening trust between states,
the violation of the Soviet border by an American military aircraft |
may be evaluated as an attempt to undermine the efforts aimed at.
convening such a meeting and to aggravate the international situation.

From the messages of the President of the USA and his con-
yersations with the Soviet Ambassador, as well as from statements
by other government officials of the USA, it is known to the Soviet
Government that the Government of the USA desires a rapprochement
between our governments and improvement in the relations between
them. There can hardly be any doubt that such facts of violation of
the borders of the USSR can have only one result--that of hindering
this cause and upsetting Soviet-American relations.
74-00000

oh TOP SECRET '- EIDER - CHESS

During the deployment of Detachment C it performed

approximately 86 operational missions, of these only 43
originated and recovered at Atsugi.

1. Any and all information pertaining to the take-
offs and landings of the U-2 at Atsugi, Japan,
limited to the years 1959 through 1962.

We have been unable to locate files which would
contain logs of all take-offs and landings of the U-2
aircraft assigned to Detachment C. In addition to
the mission flights stated above we must assume that
there were a large number of take-offs and landings
which would include flights for pilot familiarization,
training, equipment testing, transitional and flights

 

 

2. Any and all information concerning the radar
procedures, facilities, and staff involved with
the U-2 flights at Atsugi, Japan, limited to the
years 1959 through 1962.

As stated in the General Background above we have
not located details or specific operating procedures
or agreements with the local Navy base at Atsugi.

3. Any and all information pertaining to contact
between Marine Air Control Squadron #1, Air
Group II, lst Marine Wing, and U-2 personnel at
Atsugi, Japan, including but not limited to
housing, recreational, and eating facilities -
limited to the years 1959 through 1962.

We have not identified any relationship between
Detachment C and Marine Air Control Squadron #1. On
the subject of housing, we have noted that late in
1957 families were permitted at Detachment C and as
a result housing was provided in the compound assigned
to the Agency Support Unit and ten houses were rented
on the local market.

4. Any and all information pertaining to defectors
with knowledge of the U-2 program.

The DDS§T has not located any information pertaining
to defectors. We defer this request to the DDO.

-2-

TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS
74-00000

/ oo... TOP SECRET’ - EIDER - CHESS

5. Any and all information within the U-2 program
file pertaining to defectors with knowledge of
the U-2 program.

See above.

6. Any and all information concerning Soviet knowledge
of the U-2 program previous to May 1,.1960.

Attached is an extract from a report dated
3 March 1958 concerning Soviet Air Defense which
gives a summary of Soviet knowledge of the U-2
overflights between 20 June and 10 July 1956 (Tab B).

Also attached is a copy of the Soviet protest note
of 10 July 1956 concerning Mission 2013 on 4 July 1956
which was the first penetration of the Soviet borders
(Tab C).

TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS
. & 7 c
‘ ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS DATE _|INITIAL
cott Breckenridge, OLC
D15, Has.

          
 
  
         

“4

° -
aT hye

Ur

Top Secret

1 (Security Classification)

 

CONTROL NO. _SC-01836-78
fe)

IRECT REPLY Py

   

slalalo
=
taal
rm]
pa
Ss
Fa)
z

NFORMATION

   

 

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.
AEO/DD 6E60 , Ha XO 20

  
   

   

CONMINT —

Channeis

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

 

   

ie av
Warning Notice
Sensitive Intelligence Sources and Methods Invoived

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Di closure Subject to iminal Sanctions

 

Top Secret

(Security Classification)
E2 IMPDET

oO LF Ke

ae

 

 

 
 

[oe totoetorag}
, _—T.

o°

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

-

HSCA “Request Ltr 8 May 1978 OLC 78-1573

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

 

INCLUSIVE DATES: Directorate of S § T Memo 22 June 1978
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

 

DATE DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICI.
Sle

 

 

 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
74-00000

 

‘TOP SECRET'- EIDER - CHESS

SC-01836-78
Copy
oe sun 78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION : Scott Breckenridge
SUBJECT : HSCA Request
REFERENCE : HSCA Letter Dated 8 May 78, OLC 78-1573

1. (U) Reference requests access to information in
six areas pertaining to the U-2 Project. As you know
the U-2 Project files include about 150 boxes and over 650
reels of microfilm, all located at the Records Center. We
have reviewed the shelf listing titles to identify pertinent
files that might be responsive to the areas of request. The
information requested covers an era and an organization which
was not a part of this Directorate. As a result much of the
corporate memory is no longer available and research of the
files by current personnel is time consuming and requires
almost a learning process. We have depended a great deal
on the written History of the U-2 Project for leads to files
and for information contained in this memorandun.

2. (U) The primary interest of reference refers to
the U-2 Project, Detachment C, while stationed in Atsugi,
Japan. Attached are replies keyed to the six areas in the
HSCA letter.

3. (U) We realize that the information supplied by
this memorandum does not fully respond to all the areas
requested. Because of the broad and encompassing nature
of some of the requests in the HSCA letter and the fact
that our files are not organized to readily respond to
such broad requests we request that the HSCA staff review
the material and determine if their requests could be
limited or narrowed in some way.

Yyrmas4 Abid,\,

Thomas G. Ward
Acting Executive Officer
Directorate of
Science and Technology
Attachments:

As stated a May be downgraded to
Unclassified when

removed from attachment.

CL BY: 469804
TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS
74-0000

TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS

1 . , Attachment To:
: SC-01836~78

SUBJECT: DDS&T Interim Reply to HSCA Request, 8 May 78,
OLC 78-1573

General Background: Detachment C advance party of
security and communication personnel departed the U.S.
for Atsugi, Japan, on 20 February 1957, the second echelon
of administrative personnel departed 4 March, and the main
body of the detachment with two U-2 aircraft and equipment
began deployment on 15 March. On 29 March Headquarters was
notified that all personnel and equipment were on base.
Operational readiness was forecast for the week of 8 April.
Operating procedures and liaison had been accomplished with
the following major U.S. components:

Far East Air Force 3-3

Far East Command and Theater Commander
Agency's nd local support unit
54th Weathér Réconnaissance Squadron

Atsugi Naval Air Station

Details or specific operating agreements or procedures
with the above components have not been located.

By mid-May 1957 the Detachment had flown 30 sorties.
All of these operations were preparations for the primary
mission of the Detachment. The first primary mission of the
Detachment, a flight over part of the USSR, occurred on
20 June 1957, however, this mission did not originate or
recover at Atsugi.

 

The first overflight of the USSR from Atsugi occurred
on 1 March 1958 and this flight was the only and last flight.
This flight, as other previous flights by other Detachments,
was tracked by Russian radar, even though. the U-2 aircraft
had anti-radar applications, and a Soviet protest was made
on 5 March 1958 by the Soviet Ambassador to Washington,
Mikhail Menshikov. Attached are copies of the Soviet
Aide Memoires of 5 March and 21 April 1958 (Tab A).

. The Detachment continued to perform non-USSR missions

in the Far East area until the Powers flight of 1 May 1960.
Redeployment of the Detachment began in early July, the

last U-2 aircraft departed Japan on 9 July and all personnel
and other equipment cleared the base and turned the facilities
back to the Navy on 19 August 1960. :

‘TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS

UPd
