 

Comments to the Church Committee and especially about
"Track Ii", a very tightly held project in Latin America
Division. On 22 December 1976, Hersh again called Subject.
During this conversation, Hersh quoted some passages from
a letter he had received from “one of your old buddies", ~
He quickly read several, passages making references to

Ted Shackley, Jim Flannery,’ Kenny Million, Dino Pionzio,
Larry Sulc and Tony Sforza. According to Subject, the
latter two officers are really not too well-known and it
was surprising to him to hear Hersh talking about them.
Two quotes which Subject particularly recalled were,
"When Phillips called into the Office after you talked to
him, the word went straight to the top enchilada",
"Shackley said, ‘Don't worry about Sforza - he is loyal -
anyway, he can be trusted, even if we have to dump him.
Of course, he will not be able to do the good that.
Phillips has done'". :

--4, Subject speculated that the only persons in the
Agency who would have the type of information contained in
paragraph 3 above and who may have reason to relate it
to Hersh are Peter Kapusta and Jack LNU, who was Chief of
the Mexico Branch at Headquarters in 1970. .

 

 

 

Distribution: .
Original - Addressee -
1 - Subject File #40696
1 - Chrono
OS :SSD:0SB:mh
 

7+

(toatoias-t0225

14 March 1977.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security (PSI)

 

 

 

FROM : i . .
Operations Support Branch
SUBJECT : Phillips, David Atlee ~
#40696
REFERENCE : Deputy Director of Security Memorandum

dated 7 March 1977; same Subject

1. In accordance with referent, the undersigned
met with Subject at his home on 8 March 1977.

2. Subject advised that on or about 1 March 1977,
he received a telephone call at his home from a Mr, Douglas
Day, an author, who gave his phone number as (804) 823-5436.
Although Subject has never met Mr. Day, he recalls reading
a recent review of one of his books in Time or Newsweek.
It was a fictional work on Spain. Mr. Day informed Subject
that he is now working on a non-fictional book on |
Che Guevara. In developing background for this book, Day
will be traveling through Latin America including Cuba.
Knowing of Subject's association with the Agency, he asked
for Subject's advice on how to “smooth the way" for making
contacts at the U.S. Embassies in these countries and how
to make contact with CIA officials. Day stated that he
would be more than willing to "cooperate or work with" the
Agency during his trip. Subject told Day that, as simple
as it may.sound, he need only to call or write the Agency
stating his intentions and offers.

3. Subject then related that Seymour Hersh telephoned
him about a year ago and stated that he knew all about his

E2 IMPDET-
CL BY 064564

SONTIBENTIAL

 
