74-0000 +

 

 

obrete wits inte

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMERGENCY “INSTRUCTIONS
(Continued)

; SPECIAL conracrs

i. . George. PANEGAULTS, Chie? ‘of Police, Prince Georges county.
a (Personally: known’ to ‘SNODDY under GOLIATH) -

“2, Lieutenant MOON, Commanding ‘Officer, Barracks Hq, Waldorf,
Maryland, Maryland State Police. (Personally known to PERRALL
under GOLIATH)

3. Emergency Ambulance - Greenbelt Volunteer Fire Department. .
(Can be obtained through SNODDY)

Above not to be contacted unless authorized by SAC or ASAC.

 

00'7a2
74-00200

 

   

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS
(Continued)

 

8, Windows in cell to remain blacked out and doors to other rooms.
on 3rd floor to be closed and locked when SUBJECT leaves cell, in order
to prevent his becoming .oriented to surroundings. Te . :

 

: 9. No unnecessary conversation shall be conducted with SUBJECT or
wee ee . among agents, nor shall any mention of last names be made within SUBJECT's
hearing. - .
10. SUBJECT is not to have access to newspapers and magazines, nok
permitted to hear radio or television, nor shall there be any discussion
of news events within his hearing. He may be provided selected reading
material upon authorization of Headquarters personnel concerned with the
case, : .

 

ll. Recording devices to be promptly activated in order to vick un
‘ any corments by SUBJECT er ccnversation between him and the doctor or _
rwhp other operational personnel. oo

12. Any unusual or significant comments, movements or activities
of SUBJECT to be promptly brought to the attention of the SSA.
. 13. Telephone numbers of key Security and Operational personnel,
as well as photographs and physical description of SUBJECT to be maintained
in a secure place for ready reference by the SSA. a a “ :

 

14. Should it become necessary to answer questions by the Police
or Fire Department regarding the site, personnel at the site, or with
specific reference to the SUBJECT, such inquiries should be handled
by the SSA with the senior Police or Fire Department official on the -
scene. The SSA should converse in private with such official, and
. identify himself by utilizing his DODD credential. He should explain
va hun briefly, and only to the extent necessary, that the property is leased
. and that it is used occasionally for training purposes. All inquiries

concerning the SUBJECT should be parried, “if possible. However , if
necessary, it may be explained that the SUBJECT has a mental disorder

which sometimes requires special treatment. He- should not be identified
under his alias or otherwise. The SSA should tactfully but firmly request
that his own identity, plus his DOD affiliation, be held in strict confidence,
especially with regard to the press. Inquiries by members of the press

or members of the civilian population should be answered by stating that

the site is rented by a private group who meet periodically for recreation.

 

  

 

 

09°731
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMERGENCY INSTRU CTIONS

(Continued)

of his absence, should be immediately notified and advice obtained as
to any emergency action which should be taken pending his arrival.

Likewise, the SAC or ASAC/DFO should be notified immediately after

talking to the doctor in order that he might be apprised of the situation
and any instructions or treatment prescribed by the doctor. Regardless
of any instructions given by the doctor, no action shall be taken to
remove the SUBJECT from the premises or to communicate with any hospital
or ambulance service without the prior authorization of the SAC or ASAC.
. . . fal
2. Should it become necessary to remove the SUBJECT to a hospital
or other location away from the premises, every possible precaution
should be taken to maintain close custody and control over him, and to
prevent disclosure of his. true identity and status to ) unauthorized ;

persons.

 

 

’ GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND INFORMATION

 

1. Two men on duty on third floor who will keep SUBJECT under
constant observation twenty-four hours a day. :

2. Four men in attendance whenever’ SUBJECT leaves cell while
confined to third floor.

3. Six men in attendance whenever SUBJECT is taken’ to interrogation
room on second fleor, all to remain available in adjoining room for
removal signal from visitors.

4, Coveralls taken from SUBJECT at 2200 hours and returned the
following morning at 0700 hours daily, leaving SUBJECT in shorts and
undershirt overnight. a

5. Military appearance and prompt shift schedules taintained at
all times when in presence of SUBJECT.

6. Careful room search, including clothes and bunk, to be conducted
every time SUBJECT leaves cell.

7. SUBJECT must stand in West corner of cell facing wall whenever
anyone but Dr. BOHRER enters cell.

00'730
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

 

 

 

 

(Continued) oe
any event, every possible security precaution should be taken during

the movement of SUBJECT, including the use of handcuffs or any other
restraining devices deemed necessary in order to maintain proper custody

_ and control over the SUBJECT and prevent his escape.

k.. If, in the judgment of the SSA, a fire has reached, or is likely
to reach proportions that it could not be controlled by firefighting.
equipment on the premises, it shall be his responsibility to notify the,
Clinton Fire Department. In this event » the Security Detail should '

_ move with dispatch to remove the SUBJECT from the premises prior to

arrival of the Fire Department. The SUBJECT should be placed in an
automobile, accompanied by four members of the Security Detail, and
driven away from the premises. At appropriate intervals, telephone

-calis should be made to the safehouse. If no answer is received, the
.. cognizant DFO official should he contacted for_instructions as to whether

to return to the safehouse or proceed to an alternate site.
: FIRE
(Tenant House)

i. In case of fire in the Tenant House,. the occupants thereof
should be instructed to inmediately notify the Main House and to use
any available means to combat the fire until assistance arrives, unless
the fire is out of control, in which case all efforts should be directed
towards the evacuation of the occupants of the premises. It should be
clearly understood that in-no case should any of the. occupants of the
Tenant House call the Fire Department. _ This decision is the sole respon-
sibility of the SSA. : a oo Ce, J,

2. Upon notification of a fire in the Tenant House, the* person
notified should immediately inform the SSA and assist in, the dispatching
of available personnel and fire extinguishers to combat the fire. if,
in the judgment of the SSA, the fire has reached, or is likely to reach,
proportions that it could not be controlled by the available firefighting
equipment, it shall be his responsibility to notify the Clinton Fire
Department and to take necessary precautionary measures to prevent the
observation of the SUBJECT by firemen or other unauthorized persons who
might be attracted to the scene.

00728

-2-
74-0000

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS
(Continued)

 

3. At the first available opportunity, the SSA should call the
SAC or ASAC, or if they cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and
furnish him with full particulars concerning the situation and the
action being taken.. a : - oO . SO

ESCAPE OR ATTEMPTED ESCAPE

i. Strict vigilance and security should be maintained on a ;
2h hour basis in accordance with established procedures in order to
discourage and prevent the SUBJECT's escape. If SUBJECT should make
an attempt to escape, sufficient force should be used as is necessary
.under the circumstances in order to subdue the SUBJECT and maintain
custody and control over him. However, unnecessary brutality and the
indiscriminate use of force wil] nat he anndmed, -

 

Se mene : 2.° All persoriiel assigned to the Special Security Detail on duty
. ; “ at the site shall be alerted by. means of the emergency alarm and/or
a other appropriate means, and brought into play on any escape attempt.
Should the SUBJECT succeed in escaping from the house proper, the SSA
shall be responsible for coordinating and “directing a hot pursuit of
_ the SUBJECT by all means available. : ; ;

3. The use of firearms should be scrupulously avoided except in
extreme circumstances of self-defense. However, the SSA under circum--
stances that indicate there are no other means of preventing SUBJECT's
total escape, may direct a qualified firearms-trained agent to fire
shots over SUBJECT's head followed by verbal warning to halt. In no
event, except in self-defense as stated above, will an agent shoot

directly at the SUBJECT. P
4. At the first available opportunity, the SAC/DFO,: or’in his
absence, one of the ASACs, should be telephonically advised of all
the circumstances surrounding an escape attempt. In no case shall
the Police be notified unless authorized by the SAC or ASAC.
ILLNESS OR INJURY

1. In case of sudden illness or serious injury to the SUBJECT,
Dr. Charles BOHRER, or other physician designated by him in the event

00'729
74-0000

 
  
       
      

{fe
oe Bi a

“District Field Office on

dons Regarding Custoay yet).
Bet 62 "ee /. _

 

ae.

     

 
  

he Reference in zade to the outline of emergency instructions -
wobnithed by you on 1 duly Aséls for Headquarters apgrovals :
 

[ieee] ¢ , €°

 

 

 

 

 

00°724
74-00000

Fy nou ul eae

 

oe c WH CED OY Atoatsese
" : . . (thee a

~

pase INL tea RC eee

MEMORANIUM FOR: Headquarters ee

 

 

 

: : L ions Regarding Custody or)
#262 622 «¢ SD/1
, ;

1. Attached are instructions and procedures to be followed in
the event of emergency situations affecting the SUBJECT's health, ?
safety and custody, as well as the security of the safehouse where

SUBJECT is currently being held.

2. This is to formalize instructions which, for the most part,
are already in effect and have been briefed to the personnel of tho
” distriveF Pichi Crtite wi IO ALE concerned With this case.

"3, Dissemination of copies of these instructions to members of.
the Special Security Detail will be made upon notification of Headquarters

 

approval.

Attachment :

   

-~ Emergency Instructions (2)

 

ad 00726

  
FA 90000 re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

Instructions and procedures are set forth below for the handling
of emergency situations such as fire, the escape or attempted escape
of SUBJECT, and the sudden illness or serious injury to the SUBJECT.
Should such situations arise, it might be necessary to call on the ;
Police, the Fire Department, or outside medical facilities for assistance.

‘It is possible that in such an event representatives of the press or

curiosity-seekers in the local community might be attracted to the site ;
thereby creating security problems with respect to the custody and
protection of the SUBJECT from a publicity standpoint. :

In view of the above, it is therefore imperative that these in-
structions be thoroughly understood and memorized by all personnel -

assigned to the Special Security Detail on this case.

FIRE
(Main House)

1. In case of fire in the Main House » the person discovering the
fire should apply the nearest fire extinguisher, unless, in his judgment,
the fire has reached such proportions where available equipment would be
useless. Simultaneously, he should dispatch another member of the Security
Detail to alert the Senior Security Agent (SSA) and the other occupants
of the house. If no one is available in the immediate vicinity, the
person discovering the fire should alert others in the house by shouting

2. Upon being notified of a fire, the SSA shall be responsible for
directing the fighting of the fire, protecting classified and sensitive
documents and equipment on the premises » calling the local Fire Department .
if circumstances warrant, and evacuating personnel. Also ,» at the first
available opportunity, the SSA should call the SAC or ASAC; ‘or if they
cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and furnish him with full particulars
concerning the situation and the action being taken. :

3. In utilizing members of the Security Detail in fighting a fire,
it should be borne in mind that two guards must be maintained on the
third floor at all times, so long as the SUBJECT remains confined to
his quarters. If it should become necessary to remove the SUBJECT from
his quarters during an emergency, a minimum of four guards should be
present unless circumstances are such as to make this infeasible. In

00'7%27
