104-(0142-10248

 

 

HAO MASON UENO ke co be bias ate ar fate eae

  

'. Louis Stokes (D., Ohio), Chairman, House

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Maer, dba e AM te ee We bee

aca /*

 

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
thursday - 14 July 1977 : t

    

7. (Secret - PG) LIAISON Michael J. Hersbrp
Director, Subcommittee on International Organizations, House International
Relations Committee, Beverley Lumpkin and William Garvelink, of the
Subcommittee staff, visited C&RS Conference Room this date in order to
review files. While they were here, Miss Lumpkin and Mr, Garvelink
signed Nondisclosure Agreements and the matter of our dealings with NSA
Was discussed with Mr, Hershman. (See Memorandum for the Record. )

8. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Called Clare Buchanan, Senate!
Foreign Relations Committee staff, and informed her that DOD could update
“the background investigations of Seth Tillman and John Ritch,of the Committee
staff,if the Chairman sends a letter making such a request to DOD, She
indicated that she would move on this immediately, :

9. (Internal Use Only - DIC) LIAISON I met briefly with Representative
i Assassi ations,
and then Mr. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director of the
Committee, on security matters and a Nondisclosure Agreement. (See
Memorandum for the Record.) In addition, Chairman Stokes fave me a :
letter which was addressed to the DCI and concerned the termination of .

clearance status of two House Select Committee on Assassinations staffers,

10. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Returnéd a telephone call from
the office of the Resident Commissioner Baltasar Corrada (D., Peurto Rico).
_The Commissioner's press secretary, Bernardo Guerra, indicated that he
was gathering general information on many agencies of the.Executive Branch
and wished to visit the CLA with other members of the staff-to "talk about the
CIA," I responded that I thought the best way to start was to send him a general
Kit of public information on the Agency, which hopefully would satisfy his ;
informational needs. A kit was provided by A/DCI/PA and forwarded to
the. Office of the Resident Commissioner, Puerto Rico, Atte
Guerra, Room 1319 Longworth House Office Building.

GEORGE L. CARY
Legislative Counsel

ntion: Bernardo

ec: . Son
O/DDCL "DDI DDA DDS&T SA/DO/O -—s NO
Mr. Grinwis> Mr. Lapham IC Staff
Ex. Sec. Mr. Hetu Comptroller

20ser

 

 
