14-00000

A tele ephone taps were establishe

. the identity of the person but she said that Win Scott read everything.

_ .. Soviet and the Cuban Embassies.,;The Cuban photo surveillance :
, “Project (LIONION) was eso [efoto at opekation) Lone aa

= arrived PCS and her knowledge from the Headquarters desk,. ; oe J.

6. Ms. Bustos said that when the report on Oswald came
in from Mexico she did the name trace on him. She took action
to notify the Navy, the FBI, and the field. She states that the
station was told to notify the Legal Attache and the three Military
Attaches. In notifying the "Pentagon" she said that she asked
for a photo of Oswald from his military file which might be used. .
in his identification against photography coverage in Mexico City.
She said there was no answer from the 'Pentagon;"' In response
to our questions she stated that this would mean his military
service, which probably was the Navy as Oswald was a Marine. -
She said that she waited for comments and reaction but that there
.was no response. By way of explanation she observed that lots -

 

“of people were in contact with the Soviet and Cuban Embassies

in Mexico City and nfresponse at that time might not be unnatural, . :

 

". She cannot recall if there was a follow up. . : oo, os

7. She gtated thatiinitially our telephone taps in Mexico 9 City :
were (unilateral,| bearing the cryptonym LIFEAT. Later, Gorey.
iaitone could not recall the date); .
it came to. be known as LIENVOY. The LIENVOY LP had about . ;
30" ‘lines, 15 each for CIA a CIA and ( Liaisoy. Most of the embassy oO : igs

 

 

 

lines were switched to LIE to LIENS OY, but |LIFEAT continued to have.

houses for LP's "all over town. ‘s The lines in LIENVOY were
tapped | rom ‘céntr which Ms. Bustos sees as indicating that
there was. probably no standdown on the Cuban Embassy so far
‘as technical reasons are concerned. She felt that the LP case

., officer managed the distribution of coverage so that there would

be no duplications in the lines covered. She could not remember

_ Ms. Bustos stated that there was photo surveillance on both the

 

8 Ms. Bustos said that Ann Goodpasture handled the
“material from LIFEAT and she recalled that a person named

’ Anderson handled LIENVOY. Ms. Goodpasture did the history

of the Mexico Station and would be very familiar with all of it.
As Ms. Bustos did not.go to Mexico until 1967 her personal . -
recollections are a mix of the period commencing when she

 

~  SRERET Cs - . nls
104-10059-10270

 

 

 

 

: ‘on the Oswald matter.

~ 3 DEC B76
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Interview with Charlotte Bustos-Videla

1. John Leader, -Ted| Anderson (O/S) and I met with Ms.
Bustos yesterday to. discuss her recollections that might bear

 

2. She stated that she has not yet been contacted by Mr.

. Kessler. She and her husband have arranged for an unlisted
_. telephone and a post office box to protect their privacy. If
' contacted she will decline to have any discussions with Mr. -

Kessler. Contrary to my understanding she is returning to
Headquarters'PCS and will be here for some time,

_3. Ms. Bustos stated that the most important person to.

whom we can talk is Ann Goodpasture who has retired to Texas. :

She stated that Ms. Goodpasture was a case officer in the
‘station; she "ran liaison;" she handled sensitive things for the .

- COS; and, after the assassination of President Kennedy she ;
“would have been the one to conduct the reviews at the station,

She was involved in the investigations of the Duran aspect of -

‘the matter (we do not know if Ms. Goodpasture is the person
interviewed by the Downing Committee investigators; ahe does

not fit the description of a secretary).

A The next person that she mentioned was 3 Milly Rodriguez e

' She handled Tasaroff and the Soviet transcribers. Ms. Bustos |

feels that Ms. Rodriguez would be more informed on what nerunnTo oA

happened than Dave Reardon ~-sp?).- See ~ Background US np

. Do Not Reproduoe
5. Ms. Bustos stated that she got involved from the Cuban - 7 :

angle, not from the Soviet point of view. Itis her present re- ‘ ,

collection, contrary to/what we have been told, that the Cuban —

tap was active at the time that Oswald visited Mexico. . We dis--.

cussed the fact that he called the Soviet Embassy from the.Cuban’

Embassy and asked if this might explain her recollection that

' the Cuban tap was active; she thought not.

ot

erite. trom serine eaten marianrannemes om

_ WETS.

SEGRET

rire wis

     

 

 

 

 

sou

 
. ; ( . RSL Gs bh tee - (

9. Ms. Bustos stated that Win Scott retired around 1969
and that the files were purged around 1970. She felt that all
permanent material was sent to /W arreftorjand would not be
at[the sBtion] She said that about 75% of all the paper was
destroyed but that the Oswald file would have been sent to
Washington. .

10. Ms. Bustos has no reak recollections now about what
she did at the time of the Kennedy death. She recalls only the
Oswald 201-file. Her assumption is that a task force would
have taken over the matter, as was customary of LA Division

handling special matters which would take it out of the Mexican
Branch. . 7 . : ;

ll, We agreed to get some information that rnight help Ms.
Bustos refresh her recollection and agreed on a later contact. -

rn er
S. D. Breckinridge
ce: O/S .

 

 

 

 
