 

  
  

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

  
   

 
 

Richard Goodwin concerning the paragraghs about President Kennedy
which were deleted by Lyle Stuart froa ine. Shark aud The Sardines
(preface). Subject also said she had ca char cGaein wrter
the a;pearance of the white Paper on Cuba aud called to sis attention
the fact that the preface te CASTRO's Ilistory will Absolve Ne
attributed tc Luis CONTE Acquirre, did net appear in tie criginal
Spanish edition but was written for the later English translation
(apparently after CONTE cuanged his views).

      
   
   
   
     
 

5. Cobb stated that after the hearings, two reporters from
the Jourual American, Don FRASCA and John MITCHELL, appreached her
for Statements on CASTPC, the Cuban invasion, and the importation
into Florida of narcotics from Cuba. They did refer to KUBARK
in a rather oblique fashion asking if any other government agencies
such a% the FRI, Narcotics Sureau, or KU3AKK had been in touch with
her concerning these matters. : .

      
       
       
       
 

6. Tad SZULC of the New York Times, at her request, and Drew
Pearson's assistant, ANDERSON, @130 contacted her. Both were
interested in her personal views on CASTRO--SZULC particularly
discussed an interpretation he had done of CASTRO'S latest haranque,
in which he expressed the opinion that CASTRO is changing his

vosition. ANDERSON was interested in persuading Subject to write
son rep lamant hesed on

an artichke for PAKAUC, wasudupeus Peet oo ; :

her personal experiences. "é@ had a PROtographer. take pictures

to be used if she did submit such an articie. (The case officer
advised Subject that if she did in fact prepare such an article,
KUBARK would want to review it befere she submitted it.} Subject
also stated that SZULC was not in favor of the planned visit of
Guategalan President YDIGORAS,

       
      
          
     
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
 

7. Subject discussed at sene length her association with
Carlos Manuel PELLECER. She feels tiat basically he is not a devout
Comsunist but that his vaiue to tie Party is such that many of his
indiscretions are overlocked. She named as friends of PFLLECER a
Carlo POLANCO (roommate), a (fnu) VITERKI. She also re€erred to
his sister, Augusta MCLLINEDO, wao resides in Cuatemala, and whor
Subject contacted on ner trip. Surject mentioned Neftali MURCIA
and Rual Nester PUENTES, a Saivaderian, ss 2 friend of PELLECER,

 

neste waptenences

8. In terponse to a question whether there had been any mention
of Cuban subversive activities in Nexico, she said that Carlos FAZ
Tejada, Guatevalan Minister of Defense, had reportedly received
sozg.funds fros Cuba. (The presumable source of this information |;
was [Reftali KURCTA}) ; :

9. Subject showed the case officer shapshots and Life articles:
with pictures of PELLECER. She also explained that PETTETER did not
want her to carry the Sovict propaganda which she was carrying when’
she was arrested in Guatemala, and suggested she clear herself with
the press. He apparently suggested she write to Time in reply to
the article which appeared about her. : |

     

10. Other individuals mentioned by. ‘Subject included an Argentine;
Dr. WORTHEIN, who according to PELLECER, is stild in the hills of ;
Ciicate with a mobile heakth unit, despite some differences. with /
tne CASTRO regime; and who might be of possitie interest to KUBARK.:
She also mentioned Edelberto TORRES, whom she has met, and his son
Humberto TCRRES Phinero, presently a guerilla in the Guatemalan hills,

11. Subject requested the return of certain letters given to the
case officer from AREVALO, Cesar RODRIGUEZ, and Sara GUASH |

      
    
 

  
   
 

      
     

i

d
12. On Saturday, 31 varch 1962, she want to see subassador 3

DeLassups MCERISON, As with Tad SZULC, het mission was to ‘pet before

the press AREVALO's gesire to sratalt the deletions made from his

book and its preface. He had urge Subject to contact as many %

      
      
    

   

 

 
(tostorTs-t0ta9

 

CASS EO

SECRET

 

 

‘

Ls

i

i

i

| 1. Forwarded for Station's information are the results of ta, &
Subject-'s debriefing subsequent to her appearance before the Senate Ady
Subcommittee and additiogal comments mado to the case officer doing. %
the debriefing. 1 :

2.. The Subcommittee hearings, according to Subject, lasted :

approximstely four hours. The members appeared to be interested ia

four sain points: ,

|

if

a. AREVALO’s book, The Snark and The Sardines, and
particularly in whether it was rinance rom a; and what Subject
knew about the publisher, Lyle Stuart;

b. Her connections with tke Fair Play for Cuba Committee;

tT. Whet Cuhieee kanue af anw connection hetween the Cuban
Cv and recently publicized narcotics traffic in Miami; : .

d. Subject's general background and activities in Cuba.

|
3. Subject stated that she had given the subcommittee certain = ~ |
papers she had concerning the book and had given thea what informa-
tion sh¢ had concerning the author and the publisher. She inforzed |
the Subcommittee that she was not a member of the Fair Play Coumittee
but was. in contact with Richard GI3SON and other mem-ers of the |
Comittee. Subiect told the Suhcomittee that she was not aware
of any connection between the Cuban CP and narcotics entering Miazi.
She gave them her general background and told them of her wor: in
Cuba; she said that her employment record apparently so confused
the Subcommittee that they did not press for additional details;
end she was thus able to aveid any direct questions which Bight , |

a 8
have proved embarrassing regarding her connections with use, af

4

4. Subject said (to the case officer debriefing her) that she
has written letters to Hubert H. Husphry, Delesseps-Morrisan,, and

   

LTistribation:  --j----------+---.--2-
2 = Nexico City
1 = Guatemala City

 

==

OFFICE St MBOL 2 ATE

 

sone < :
860 53 ustemevious COON memAces fos site eDeamn BE JSIO
