14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

‘locker, wall-locker, and it was addressed to

as far as I could Yecollect that was mail from:

: receiving letters he had one visitor. - Tt was: ne . 7

“a ‘man, because zr got the call from the MP

   

SECRET

get in touch with a Cuban Embassy, you know.
But at that time that I told him this ~ we:
were on friendly terms with Cuba, you know, —
so this wasn't no subversion or malintent,

you know. I didn't know what to answer him.

L told him to see them. , : co a . ”

"After a while he told me he was: in
contact with them ...

" .2. I seen this envelope in his foot~

- him, and they had an official seal on it, and .

os Angeles, and he was ‘telling me there was

a Cuban Consul. And just after he. started:

4

: receiving these letters - you see, he. would : 7 ve

never ga out,” but stay near the post all the -

"ase he had ‘one visitor after he started

 

guard shack, and they gave me a call that
OSWALD had a visitor at the front gate. This - ° |

man had to be a civilian, otherwise they would

have let him in. So I had to find somebody to. :

Yelieve OSWALD, who was on guard, to go down

witw ceeatalin es

 
 

SECRET

there to visit with this fellow, and they spent :

about an hour and a half, two hours, talking,

 

I guess, and he came back. I don't know .who the
man was or what they talked about, but he ‘Looked
nonchalant about the whole thing when he came .
back. - He never mentioned who he was, nothing.
"Mr. LIEBELER: How long did he talc to

him, do you remember?

 

"Mr. DELGADO : About an hour and half,
two hovis wee - ae 7 a
“MK. LIEBELER: : “You never asked OSWALD ™

: who this. fellow was, ‘that’ he ‘€alkea’ ‘to? oe ee tt . a

 

oti. "RELGADO : No. Ne

     

Some LIEBELER: bia you. connect. this visit |

 
 
 

: Constilate?-

   

MeL DELGADO : 2 aia; ‘because, 1’ ‘thought ie

 

 

 

. funny “for him to bbe - receiving | a ‘caller. at such a ;

 

“Yate, date” - time. - Also, BB: to this’ tite. he’

“naraly ever received mail; in fact” he seldom / - a
received mail from home because - made it a. . '
policy, I used ‘to pick up the mail for our unit

and distribute it to the guys in there, and very

seldom did I ever see one for him. But every so

 

often, after he started to gek in contact with cont ar.

in
14-00000:

   

SECRET

member to OSWALD during his specialist training period
at El Toro Marine Corps Base. December 1958 - September 1959.

The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:

 

"OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in
touch with Cuban diplomatic offic. ials in
this country, which DELGADO at first took,
to be "one of his lies, but later ; )

“pelievea.t?2 - co os

‘10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says a Lot more of ©

 

‘possible operational significance than is reflected by the
-langaage of the. report, | and its implications do not appear

“to" “heive ‘been. yun ‘down ox developed by investigation. ‘hus,

the xécord of ‘the beginning o£: OSWALD" s relationship | with:
woe so i

sae. a the ‘Cubans stakes with: ‘a “question mark.

 

ite The perioa was one of transition in U.S. - ‘Cuban,
“relations, after CASTRO" 5 takeover. | OSWALD, and DELGADO. ‘at
the. outset; were CASTRO supporters, GsWwALD being pakticu-

“dary keen about “how to ) get ‘to the islana. DELGADO ‘testiz 7%

   

“giean

 

er eee I didn’t ‘know what to tell him, so. . os a

X told him the best thing that I know was to

 

i)
Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President John F. KENNEDY (Qlashington, 1964), hereatter
cited as Report, p. 687. : .

 
   

 

SECRET

_it in New Orleans ~ must be considered of

great significance in the light of the

 

pathological evolution of OSWALD's passive/

aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill

‘General WALKER early in April 1963 and his

 

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

' €uban revolution which is directly trace~

able as far back as his Marine Corps

: service in El Toro, california. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP corres~
“ pondent HARKER," irrespective. of whether

“there was, any, formal’ mandate, or even

sseurity’ service “contact with OSWALD |

ae aan oo the. CubaaS or the: Russians, — was an act _

‘OE singular irresponsibility and under no

“circumstances was excusable as  xetorsion

   
 

“CUBAN contact wrt LEE HARVEY “OSWALD, SANTA | BNA canreoRNtA,

. EARLY. 1959 (2)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion

of germinal significance to

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling

CASTRO*s Cuba. DELGADO was

 

SE

for what the. Cuban’ emigres were doing during

‘the summer “of 1963. oe

 

7 na

-any review of the background of

toward and relations with

probably the closest peer group

+ oo. 2 ot

 

Fe
 

[re SECRET
1. 0f ‘the review, admittedly. heavily using the 20 ~ 20 quality
of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary: — Oe

a. There is no ‘increment of credible

evidence, applying this phrase strictly, of

 

Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence

or security service. involvement in. the as-

a -Sassination to what was developed and cons
" sidered by the. Warren Commission ard its.

. staff. - The. Commission's finding that

 

Bee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of.

o President KENWEDY: and Officer TIPPIT and did”

 

| them in alone and of his own determination
wore “vstanas.

ter. : : “ ee

 

“Sa be "greainie evidence" that would . . WO ner oe oo
upset or significantly modify this judgement a
dias (and does) not exist in ‘Washington. But
sich evidence could exist in. -Moscow and/or |

Havana, “whose ‘voluntary inputs ‘to the Warren o ee a

 

. Commission were minimal in quantity and 07

 

. quality, designed to cover up any ‘admissions . 7 : oe
of knowledge of, ox connection with, OSWALD
_ which might be related directly or indirectly
' with the assassination. therefore, the belief
that there was Soviet and/or Cuban {KGB and/ox ” Oo ae

- (BGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and |

vi

ve ceeinmenn netenet : . . -
 

 

 

 

 

T

“obyzitem.

   

SECRET

grow until there has been a full disclosure

' by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union

and. his contacts in Mexice City. The

‘Warren Commission report should have left a

wider "window" for this contingency. That,
indeed, was the opinion at the working level,
particularly in the counterintelligence com-
ponent in the CIA in 1964. As was indicated’

by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the

Warren Commission, CIA would continue to
‘yegard this aspect-of the OSWALD case as

still open.

ve. In the absence. of additional ox. new
se s.

. elements ot “credible” evidence, there, are

“nuances” in the record ‘that emerge as _note-

worthy, in the Light of other conclusions.

dad. CASTRO's warning and threat of ©

7 September 1963 - if OSWALD did indeed read

. These are reviewed and summarized below, item-

“Investigation of the Assassination ef President John F.

KENNEDY.

  

ident KENNEDY (Washington,

"Mx. He

roa)

Hearings Before the President's-Commission on the
_ASSasSination of Pres
‘hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol. V., pp. 120 - 129. See
especially p. 124 ~

the case could never be closed. *

1964),

ims: kes. ont would assume _

 
14-000003

wel | : =)

NM

   

SECRET

3. CASTRO'S statements to HARKER covered a range of
; topics but dealt principally with American political -

leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex~-

 

coriated in extraordinarily provocative fashion

(eee KENNEDY is a cretin;" "... the BATISTA of his

times’... .the most opportunistic American President of
all time 2.2"). | oo .

A. -fhe interview also contained an uncomplimentary

 

; reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing

-the. Limitea nuclear test ban. There were: differences’ in

   

he, replay by. ual {States newspapers like the

. my -
“New York Times. and ‘Washington papers, with, a ‘result that
. castRo"s. “message” was significantly modulated. | ; Sa

<.

Bis “In New, Orleans, where Lee ‘Harvey OSWALD resided

 

until. the midale- of September 1963, the “HARKER, story
“appeared in the principal morning papers the nimes-Picayune,

a on Monday, 9 September, page 1, under a. three-column head-

 

u! wnee. * "CASTRO Blasts Raids on cuba. / Says wu. S. “Leaders
“Impaxilea by aia to Rebels." the story followed: under the
HARKER by-lines | 78
"Havana (AP) ~- prime Minister
Fidel Castro said Saturday night: ‘U.S.
‘leaders would be in danger if they helped
in any attempt to do away with leaders of.

cuba.t

 
 

 

 

Daniel HARKER.

 

SECRET

SUBJECT 3 Review of Selected Items in the .
: Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding Allega~_

tions of CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the: :

John F. KENNEDY Assassination

REFERENCE : Letter by David W. Belin to
: Mr. E. Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,
paragraph 3 (Regarding Public Statement”
by CASTRO, etc. ye attached .
BACKGROUND °

i. On Satytday evening, 7 September 1963, .°: as

2

“Fidel CASTRO appeared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in:

' Havana; even moxe unusual, CASTRO submitted to an “informal

interview by the Associated Press correspondent,

Qe HARKER's interview ‘reached New ‘York on Sunday, ~~

8 September, and was in print throughout the country. on

Monday, 9 September. There can be no question: from the

‘facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

"expected, and his agreement to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get/a

message on the record in the United States. ae

 
 

 

 

 

   

SECRET

"Bitterly denouncing what he called
recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-
. tory, Castro said: 'We are prepared to
fight them and answer in kind. “U.S. leaders
should think that if they are aiding terror— ~
ist ‘plans to eliminate Cuban leaders, they - a
themselves will not be safe.' ,
" 1. world affairs ... seemed to be |
entering a more peaceful climate a few days
. ago, but now this trend has changed with
"attacks. . ee oe -
: "The U. “sis always ready to negotiate ST
and make promises’ “wilich later it will not horde. «|
"this. has happened “to promises “made. during the on

a

October crisis. they have been broken as can ;

FD
at

be seen with. new attacks. ;

"' But r- warn, this is leading + to a very -

. dangerous situation’ ‘that could lead to a worse

" exisis than ‘october’ s “len oy aa oe
66 ‘The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, |

used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference

. to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real

significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated xen
write (9 September, page A-7) -which, similaclys | OmLEL ted :

any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO’s remarks.”

 
 

 

 

 

“the Dallas killing.” Hore impoxtant, ‘the. interview appears

* evidence .j in the. files. that anything along these Lines was

Oo *. SECRET OO.

The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed the HARKER

‘ story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the

paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content

of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po-

litical aspects - in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER

elements. and. ‘burying CASTRO'S warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece.
7. There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDY

assassination that this CASTRO interview was considered in

‘following up leads or in dealings’ with the Warren Commission -
“and its staff although Mexico Station -Specifically directed

| Headquarters attention: to the AP story very shortly after |

“to have been £qrgotten. in the ‘contemporary political consid- .

in the agency records ,. either, that the Warren Commission a

"gtage itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview

“in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. thexe is no os

stated by any other Cuban leader before. ‘the assassination.
8. The purpose of ‘this review, undertaken at Mr. Relin's

request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD" s activity on the

assumption that as an avid newspaper reader - ‘which we know

from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the

‘CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

1 “ . oye ee eee

&

SEBCRET

* exation. of relations with CASTRO" s Cuba. There is “no evidence". -
