Hy iv
that pursuant to an exchange of letters between the Chairman and the
_ Director, coordinated with CIA offices of interest, revised procedures
_ to allow a selected group of staff-researchers access to CIA documents
. with limited sanitization to facilitate the Committee's review of the
. larger volumes of files involved. Sensitive viable Agency sources,
however, are excised and the staff must show relevancy to the

’ - investigation if there is any question as to making material available.

For example, the: Committee's inquiry into the cial station was
‘resisted until the staff disclosed to us that the purpose was former

oS ‘CIA employee James Wilcott's allegation that Oswald was a CIA agent.

 

 

 

 

. Those staffers given this special access have executed special secrecy
" agreements which run to the Director as opposed to the Committee as is the
‘case with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for example.
' There also has been concerns expressed that the Committee has been
~ given greater access than has ever been done before in a Congressional
investigation, Although we are getting into new unchartered waters
as a result of the Jay Epstein book, the Church Committee, for example,
had wide access to the Oswald 201 file and personnel files.

. A Attached is an agenda for the next Task Force meeting. You
- may. wish to review some of the major issues pending. Positions on
these issues, of course, will be fully coordinated and appropriately
Presented t¢ to the DDCI/DCI for determinatig

   

Lyle L. Miller

 

Attachments

cc: Each Member of HSCA Task Force

 
104-10067-10058

 

 

 

- oo. OLC 78-1641
Mavi? 410 pH'7g «12 May 1978

.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

_ Deputy Director for Administration
"Inspector General :
General Counsel : : ; .
‘Deputy Director for Public Affairs” : :

FROM: = ——«s=~—S~S*«CAeting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT: ae ‘House Select Committee on Assassinations

1.° On 27 April 1978, I sent you a projection of issues requiring
the development of coordinated positions for consideration and decision
by top management. In response to my request, each of you designated
representatives to a Task Force assembled for this purpose and the Task
Force met on 4 May (Attachment A). :

: Ze. Attachment B contains memoranda on sessions with the senior
staff of the Assassinations Committee subsequent to the 4 May Task
Force meeting, covering Committee tétnplaints and our pre-position
bargaining with them on certain key issues, e.g.,:

: a. Nosenko; Has refused to be video taped;
the Committee staff is pondering this decision,
The "formal" session has been slipped : from 31 May
to 21-22 June.

b. The question of whether the claim of
sources and methods can extend to information known
to a defector before he is recruited or defected.

3, Iunderstand there has been concern over the range of access
by Committee staffers to sensitive information. I think you should know

  
