 

’
.
é
ry
>

  
  
 
  
  
    

 

 

EL asaP ica TION ToteP AToM a MBOL BND MO,

CONTINUATION OF - :
. DISPATCH : SiC aT it FBP 5.48

Le.

 

4. 4s attachrents ew cre incliding further blopraghtca date on Sandvik,
hie Jawily, and saat of te naves that Lave come up an this invest! mtion.
Aleo attached ere trenalations of the WALIEK surveillance reporte, as stated

in paragrayh i.

TRSOTHY 1. BRLABSTT

 

= + amet _— 7 :
FORM Use PREVIOUS EDITION.
voa7 Ata me rom ry every? | eonrmuee g

 
[td 10169-10334

er er

    
 
    
     
    

 
    
     
     
  
 
 
  
       

 

DISPATCH | .

    
  
 
     

neeRne . : - ae

= STR hehnee va SS
Chief, ws a nou

FROM Crief of Station,

suacct gS VALINK/Cperations
a Harry Alfong SUAUTIZ®®

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

ACTION #£EQUaTD

PY

  

   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

BY QUALIRED MQ DESK ONLY
REFERENCHS)

 

1. The purpose of this dispatch ia to report on = case involving one of
the Pimnish employeos eat the Anerican Pmbaesy, larry Alfone SINUVIK. He has
been employed as a chaaffeur/clerk in the Ceneral Services Svotion ef the
Embessy einoe 1951 and presently ia in charge of the Inclassified Nail Room.

His duties also include arranging travel docunente for 0. 5. Miploaatie courere
between Helainki md Moscow end henoe he tag reason to virit the Seviet Hsbasay
from time te time. decently the anbesay General Services Officer brouckt bis
suspicions to the attention ef Roodine, saying that they were baged om Sumivik's
general attitude, porticalerly ofter the latter bad expressed hie intarvet in
making @ trip to the Soviet Union ond his teking Yucaian lessens fer tia
purpose, ‘The CSO alow reported that Sundwik was know to have talked a nuber
ef tinaa with Soviet Vices Consul anatolij CKlisoy uhiile on routing business et
the Soviet Eubarsy, These points led to the screening of funivik’s pargennal
file (with the concurrence ef the Charge d'iffeires) md to a cheok of the
references he had given on hie employmant application. The latter turned cat

to be quite shady. According to the VALINXS two of the three are listed aa |
havéeg s sumber of arrests each, including senglacchter, drunkenness, theft, ete,
an@ the third could act be icentified. ‘These chvicusly were not inweetigated
wory olosely at the time Sundvik applied for employmmrs. On 5 April VALINK
garved lense wee placed on Sundvik (agai_n vith the Chargé's conourrense |).

Re was followed esch evening after he left the smbassy ond on 10 ipril, after

4¢ wes learned that fimdvik was driving to the soviet Umion for a foureday thip,
he was followed from Tervekcski to the rirsieh-Soviet bordor point at Vaalinea.
fwo VALE datectives were on hmd here te observe the crossing. They reported
@ routine berder crossing, that no customs inspection was made, end that

Sundvik met two Seviet Soldiers at the border station (on the Sovis ¢ side)

vefore eontinuing frcm there. He drove off folloging the scldiers' gar. ‘The
circumstances of the border crossing are suzpicicus in t.at he ornesed the border
alone, in bie om autenobile, in bad weather, and fer only fourdaye. They

also compare clesely to the /lonke conse whore Alenko was askad by the Seviata

to rené a car, leave his family on the Finnish side (Lappeenyenta) ad eroex

the border alone for a short trip. On Sundvik's retumm trip 15 aj;ril he une
again fellewed fron the Lorder te Terwakeski, and then to Heleinkt wheva day

to day-surretiianss emtizusi. Attached exe transistions of the VALIBE -
gurvellianse reports ani a reporé e@ the border cressing which we have received
te éntes. The weekend prior to his trip into the USSN Sundvik spent im
Yervakeski with his (lances, hence there are no reperte covering thie period,

 
 

fe We have now Inarned from the travel lists whion wo aut overy two weeks
sad whigh lfet cll travelers soing te and eoning from the Jeviet Union that
drstolij Klimow went to the USSR on 9 April, arcveiag the border at VYainihiala
(railroad eycestng point). ‘hether he has retumed to rnland we do not know

at thie peint. ines Alinev's travel coincides with Sundvik'n, 1% is poositie
thet there ie sone connesticn.

   
  
   

$. Havey Alfons SUBLVIX, formerly WISTEXLUED®*, wan barn on 19 Septexder
3930 dz Heleinks and lives at Stendilekinkatu 4a 4 29, Holainki, He ta divorced
but hee reportedly rantioned the posaibility of revarrying (present Cienees io

Hitkha KylMikk’s TUCMINAM®®, neo KAXTYIR). tis coooaia Standing is oonos dered

goed a8 he has omed an automobile fer a nwber of yours ant always dreures

quite well, tbolities iy he is Co esrwative and hes given the umieretanding
thas Ade leanina are toward the vest.

  

    

4

CAIICATION
, BweO RET

én atiadimntoe wo

tom. US Panve iy guttiate
ov 83 ARPLAC Ss T0968

$1.38, ab 8A ANID 8128
bed WHnCae APE Guy dete

 
