[ioe t01e2-10164 a

 

poe‘
a
.

ty

INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Thursday - 29 September 1977

 

6. (Internal Use Only - PLC). LIAISON Met with Representative
Richardson Preyer (D., N. Car.) and furnished him the name of a contact ;
in the State Department to whom an academician and any others doing ; :
scholarly research may secure biographic information on a foreign yO :
service officer of interest to them, Mr. Preyer will provide the name .

to those people whom he described as reputable scholars who were -
.. pressing him for the public release of the Foreign Service list. ‘This

- will thus avoid need for access to the full listing which will remain . : fo

classified. This arrangeme the meeting with Mr. Preyer, —

Erich Isenstead, C/CCS, atid | SA/DO/O, during which
: Mr. Isenstead .raised security issues if list is published. Mr. Preyer ~

-. assured us that the scholars involved will be perfectly satisfied.

 

Re “(Unclassified - PLG).1 LIAISON Mr. Michael ‘O'Neil, General

... Counsel of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called —
and requested that the Agency testify at a hearing on the background and
implementation of our retirement programs scheduled for all day, if

’ necessary, starting at 10:00 a.m., Wednesday, 12 October, in Room H-405

.of the Capitol. Copies of the Agency statement would be reqiired seventy-
two hours before the hearing. Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.),
of the Committee, does not consider it necessary that the Director .

: Personally testify. soe .

8. (Unclassified - KJS) LIAISON ‘Polly Payne, in the office of
Senator Wendell H. Ford's (D., Ky.) office, called and requested
brochures on CIA. - . Sue Kessler, of this office, has been advised. :

 

9, (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Accompanied Dan Godar,
OS, to a meeting with Professor G, Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and
Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, ¢ ona a variety
' of matters. (See Memorandum for the Record.) ~ a .

10, (Internal Use ‘Only - “ptc) LIAISON Received a call from:

* James Wolf, Deputy Chief Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations,
asking for copies of Executive Order 10450 and DGID 1/14, I told Wolf that
Sidney Stembridge, Acting Director of Security, had previously provided
copies of these documents to him and Wolf said yes, but they could not
retrieve them, I agreed to get copies and make them available,

Upp 7 | 2os306
INTERNA L USE ONLY
