 

ewe

 

:
hk. To take the chill orf the couversation, I thanked Kice for the
Scoperation we had received from hia and his

exfiltration of the five former BRAC offietals from Cuba. I also asked

might. be shifted to another position. I said t

this, but hoped that if true it might be to a less difficult and rors
Tewarding job,

 

ie : .

SORT

 

 

  

 
 

 

104-10167-10279 ;

~"" of the situation,

(enntieain. atheribapimenin os gee evens

ate een Sh _ Pde Py *0/

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 43 tl
;
DATE 10 duly 1959
i

SUBJECT : Teleptone Conversation with ieroert Nice, Sirector of Intelligence,
Bureaa of Immigration. : ; >

03 i :

PARTICIPANTS: Herbert Bice af

Memorandum of Conversation -

COPES TO 4

 

2. At 1630 on 9 July I returned Mr. 'ice's call. He. said that they
had been told by the State Department that Pedro Lais DIAZ Lana, forner
chief of the C:ban Revolutionary Air Force, was no longer available to the
People who wanted to see him. lie said that“érricial stend of DiS on the
matter in thai DIAZ Lanz has been adaitted as a resident alien and that
THS cannot be excected to keep track of hin since tais isa free country.
He also eaid that unefficially he wanved to infors me that DIAZ Lans is
under subpoena to the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee and that wei
could get in touch with hin by contacting the Counittee's offices. I 4
thanked him for the information and said that I would vofer the matter
-to my supervisors imediately. a L ,

: 2. 1 noticed that the conversational tune used by Nice in tel
me the above uas somewhat formal, end believe that this call was obviously
for the record. Re-enforeing ny belief is the fact that Nice said he had
eslled me outside of customary lisison channels because he wanted to make
Sure that the nan who would have to de the vork involved vould be a

3. I asked. hin then if his meaning woe that wé could invite DIA
Lens ‘to be our veluntary mest for the pertod of tine necessary for t

Pyae f° 1292 : SECRET

st

 

 

  
