 

 

‘1odtotdoot7t

se

 

G24

Wednesday: ~ 1 December 1976

  
  

. ve UALY

 

Jour nal ~- Office of Cc gislative Counse

5, (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON In the absence of Elliot

Maxwell, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staSf, I informed

his secretary, Michal Shafer, that Maxwell should be in contact.

with DOD concerning a visit to their facilities in Los Angeles and ;
San Francisco and we will arrange visits to our facilities. Ms. Shafer
said she would pass the message to Maxwell.

6. (Secret - DEM) LIAISON Called Danny Childs, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligerice staff, concerning our discussion.
yesterday regarding Reserve release letters and the possibility of -
a letter from Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) stating Committee

“approval of this release and asking that procedures be set up to
_ transmit future approvals. I told Childs that I thought the Agency -

would oppose establishing such procedures and asked if we could
discuss this before the letter is sent. Childs then alerted Bill Miller,
Staff Director, to expect a call. ,

q. (Confidential - GLC) FAA BRIEFING “Accompanied the
Director to a br iefing of the Defense Subcommittee, House Appr opriations
Comrnittee, on the 16 November 1976 Presidential finding. (See
Memorandum for the Record, )

“(Confidential - GLC) LIAISON In the company of Mr. Carpentier,

“met with “Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel, House Select Commitice on

Assassinations, to provide him with comments on the Kessler article
of 26 November 1976 and to discuss several related maiters, (See
Mr. Carpentier's Memorandum for the Record, }

—_ 2.

 

9. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON At the request of Ms.
German Desk/DDO, for her response to a cable from the
I called Dick Kimmel, Document Control Specialist
or the Joint Atomic Energy Committee, to deterrnine the distribution
of a Committee publication of a statement by former Comrnissioner
Dixie Lee Ray, Atomic Energy Commission, on 6 August 1974 on
uranium enrichment. Kimmel said the publication was of an open
hearing and was given standard distribution including the International
Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. was so advised and wilh

 

 

 

cable the ficld. ES

 

use

. tT Pty
AL ban wk

  

CIA INTER

 
