 

cary

 

 

FO ner nc
. v ara” Se

Ho.

a, ee

  
   

 

Chief, SR

nine _— _
Chief of station) ff fm _.

Station/Cperations/PICAF/Grisorty/GCLUBH~ Soviet '7;
Efforts to Establish Contacts with hestern Representatives

 

r
ieee — e

aig nQueo iW Aelsinkt 7 |
None _- for information :

 

 

Cor eenyy

EL Etestuy te ame tt temas 8s cea OP Roe wee On

. 1, We are sending under separate cover a copy of en Esbassy disratch 34:6 op-,

on the above subject written by Costille at the request of the Counselor

of Enbassy, We have never attempted to keep our contact with Golub under

cover and have feriodically informed the Counselor of the status of this

contact, He has approved and even encouraged this contact and has sugeested .
bringing in other Rxbassy officials who might strike up friendships with : -
Soviet officials other than Golub. ° -

2, At the most recent Golub-Costille lunch on 3 August, Golub again
hinted at an estrangecent between himself and his wife, who is etill in-the
Soviet Union, He asked Costille if Costille could fix him tp with a Finnish
girl for some evening, Arrangecents have been made for a nicht on the tow
this Saturday with Costille and date and Golub and a trusted Finnish girl
we are certain will give Golub a run for his money. All details will be in
the next pouch, The following information came out during this lunch. Golub ,
is a Comuunist Party mexber having this honor bestowed upon hia at the frent §
during World Wer TI, He also mentioned that practically ali Soviet diplceats -
were CP members, Golub was born in Kharkov but spent most of his pretierld
War IT life in Kiev. He considers Kiev to be the most beatiful city in the
Soviet Union and is extremely proid of his Ukrainian backgrocai, Galub-acw
claims that for hia next post he would prefer New York City. (This isa
reversal, ao Golub up to this point has told Costille that he wculd net like
an assignment in the U. 5, because of the distance from Moscow.) When asked
why New York rather than the Soviet Embassy in Washington, he answered that
in New York he could be his own boss while in Washington he would be tec much
under the thumb of the Ambassador, He did not elaborate on this statenent,
However, he remarked that if assigned to the U.S, he would insist on im

tensive English language training in Moscow,

3. We would Like to elaborate’on Golub's “estrangenent” frou his wife,
aince this appears to be ebout his only valnerability. Golub without
hesitation a number of times:has flatly stated that he is Glad his wife is
on vacation in the Scyiet Union dnd that he has been enjoying kis freedom.

At the last lunch Costille asked him when his wife was returning. He answered
that he did not know and also that he did not care and intimated that she was
having a good tine in Moscow "probably with same lover," However, we know
that he hears from his wife because Colub has mentioned she attended the U. S.
exhibition in Moscow, She also phoned him on his birthday, 13 Ausust, from
Sone vacation spot on the Biack Sea. Golub has never intinated that she would
_ bot be returning to Helsinki following her vacation. Colub has always made
theae derogatory remarks about his wife rather jokingly and never out of any
despondency, Ho seem to think these rerarks will establiah hin as “one of

the boys.* .

a a
walk

: : “vite . t

Ly August 1959 Wildion L, Cos ti lle
Enclosure = Dispatch u.8.c.

Listribution

3 = hE w/encl
2 = SN w/enel

2 ‘eneL
! = SE YK

 

 
Prod-t0r7a-t0297] Sa FSTURN Fo
104-410172-10297) . ; re _ Background Uso nt
. a Ba : “Do Not Rep; 40

Ot pre,
Ole

 

  

 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET @

| MOTE be ote aber e of Commerh cy mdwotane af retin
taten tha cower sheet wi he Ceireyed oto thy

a dovmest o Lied, 8s
a ~
~

 

BA: Ki oe hak Hehe ,
aM ted Keel! “ptiiz : oa
tity b tely * wrih Ke ta
Toes, 5 :

 

|
‘ -
t
f

(

So
Riovet recon! i
Ph een VL i Agornacd i

f
- .. 4
CATE MOE AO 1 SANSONE ate TE ee) : 4
| i 6
t
