74-0000

- @ SECELG : @

"It appears that Communist Penetration operations were
well assigned and between 1949 and 1969, I gained experience
in recruitment and management of Latin American Camaunist
agents. During this period, I also received two courses in
Clandestine Tradecraft given by the Headquarters Covert Training
Branch. It was my understanding that my work was above average
and indicated a flair for clandestine operations. Later, some
of my actual case histories of penetration operations were
sterilized and reproduced as training aides in the Covert
Training Branch. During this service, I also gained experience
in postal intercept and surveillance, audio surveillance,
photography, and the operation of equipment used in these
activities. .

"After a four-year tour in Cuba, I volunteered to under-
take an FI mission with CASTRO's forces then in the Sierra
Maestra (April 58). The results of this mission were hailed
as satisfactory and well recorded and although I was never
really satisfied with Agency support and follow-up on this
mission, it. is now buried under the Cuban situation which is
a dead lien behing much pawed over these days.

6-3

"While in (Mexicq) on an FI assignment, I was asked to
return to the Sierra Maestra in Cuba in December 1958. Tf
accepted and arrived in Havana in time for 1 January 1959
ouster of BATISTA and the first period of chaos. After covering
the scene as an observer for about three weeks I returned to
my assignment in Mexico city)

: : (&3

"In retrospect, 1959 was my year of decision which began
with violence and ended in violence. Decision, because I
should have heeded Havana Station and requested immediate
transfer there, disregarding my sophomorie loyalty to the

(3 Qlexico Station Jassignment. Instead, I returned to what I

 

‘add to this /

shall always feel was a malassignment. (Having been trained
and briefed for CP Penetration, I ended up in reports writing
and translations, being absolutely forbidden to take part in
penetrations operations that would have jeopardized the
Communist agents I was handling.) Whether cause or affect,

° and by
early 1960 I was returning the ZI. Although I requested
this return, undoubtedly the(sexico Station)had already made
this decision. ig3

 

 
 

10d-t 04120201

>

 

 

>

 

 

1 March 1963 &$
¥ &
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: Harold R. NOEMAYE (P)

This is a voluntary statement offered to the Career
Panel as supplementary information for review and consideration
of an operational assignment for the undersigned. It contains
Subject's resume of service and experience, as well as his
evaluation of qualifications and capabilities. It is also
submitted to provide the Panel with current thinking and
attitude of the subject, as related to this agent career
asSignment on one hand, and / OM
the other, which, whether/ | ee a

has affected his two previous tours of duty.

"Concerning service and experience: I have spent all
my adult life in government service (Enlisted in the Field
Artillery 29 August 1940). Twenty years of this service has
been in the intelligence field, beginning with Combat Intel-
ligence and covering Economic and Political Intelligence
while in the Air Force. KUBARK service began in June, 1949,
in Foreign Intelligence with some Psychological Warfare and
ultimately, Paramilitary. About seventeen years of this
service ay been in Latin America - (Panama) (Costa Rica,)(6- (5

“Guatemala (Mexico and Cuba - with about seven years in three

ifferent (universities,
2 .
"T believe that my qualifications and capabilities
have been utilized (as well as neglected) in a more unique
manner than in the case of the average career agent, because
in addition to speaking and living like a Latin American, I
can think like one and consequently create or inspire confidence,
identifying with their biases, ranging from sincere criticism
to active opposition to the United States. This, naturally,
led to my specialization in the field of Communist Penetration
operations in International Communism branch, where I think
my record will speak for itself.

 
 

tee “ Loe o- @ OL @

 

"“petween March and August 1966, I processed at Head-
quarters and did some "outside" PW work for the Cuban
+ desk on the deteriorating situation in Cuba. In late
August, I signed the secrecy agreement for project JMARC
and went to Miami for "inside duty" in a KUBARK installation.
for the first time. Although quite convinced that Cuba
would "not be another Guatemala" and that the project was
destined to fail, I reported this heresy,’ then suppressed
it and pitched in to do a job that was not infrequently
praised and for which there are tangible records of production
and affect on the enemy. This tour ended with my transfer
from JMWAVE on 15 January 1963 under inexcusable circum-
stances which are recorded in my file or last fitness report
and need not be reiterated here. .

"Without going into the "growing pains" of my development
in various phases of intelligence, and using a- special
restraint on the Cuban situation, I want to make it clear
that my talents lie in the Foreign Intelligence Field.
Indeed, I know little else or have worked at little else
in my life. If I may be permitted some insight in my case,
I am mid-way in a career which has yet to yield the best
twenty years of service, and would be of such mutual con-
venience to government and individual that it would be un-
fortunate if this/ | - problem were permitted to destroy

By it or render it non-operational.

. “At the same time, I am cognizant of KUBARK forbearance
in this matter, and that my statements, vows or promises as to
future conduct cannot be valid unless proven by time and
performance. Recognizing that such a probationaly period

is a requisite before approval can be obtained for an FI
assignment in WH, I would suggest an interim Headquarters

duty of minimum duration, preferably within the Task Force,
(SAS) where my current knowledgeability might be more
productive.

"To support this request, the following is submitted
~ for consideration:

 
14-00000

.

3. Finally, let there be no misunderstanding on this
point, I am fully aware that this is a crucial phase

in my career and life, and that while the ‘administration
has no soul", KUBARK has certainly “borne this case to

the point of indulgence. The terms of the career agent
contract are clear. Should this problem arise again to
affect an operational assignment, I will offer my
resignation to be accepted at the convenience of the

_ government." : oo

. —farold RO-NOENAYE OS™

 

 

SECRET GROUP I

at - ae ee
Re REE
