74-00000

 

 

that pursuant to an exchange of letters between the Chairman and the
Director, coordinated with CIA offices of interest, revised procedures
to allow a selected group of staff researchers access to CIA documents
with limited sanitization to facilitate the Committee's review of the
larger volumes of files involved. Sensitive viable Agency sources,
however, are excised and the staff must show relevancy to the

investigation if there is any question as to making material available.
For example, the Committee's inquiry into was
resisted until the staff disclosed to us that the purpose was former

CIA employee James Wilcott's allegation that Oswald was a CIA agent.
Those staffers given this special access have executed special secrecy
agreements which run to the Director as opposed to the Committee as is the
case with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for example.
There also has been concerns expressed that the Committee has been
given greater access than has ever been done before in a Congressional
investigation. Although we are getting into new unchartered waters

as a result of the Jay Epstein book, the Church Committee, for example,
had wide access to the Oswald 201 file and personnel files.

 

 

4, Attached is an agenda for the next Task Force meeting. You
may wish to review some of the major issues pending. Positions on
these issues, of course, will be fully coordinated and appropriately
presented to the DDCI/DCI for determinatio: ;

ae

 
    

Lyle L. Miller

Attachments

cc: Each Member of HSCA Task Force

 
 

og 0147-40048

 

ote

 

: 1 ReOgD OOPY
ole ae
a OLC 78-1641 frtae pby

12 May 1978 Y se

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Administration

Inspector General
General Counsel
Deputy Director for Public Affairs

FROM: Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations

1. On 27 April 1978, I sent you a projection of issues requiring
the development of coordinated positions for consideration and decision

‘by top management. In response to my request, each of you designated

representatives to a Task Force assembled for this purpose and the Task
Force met on 4 May (Attachment A). . .

2. Attachment B contains memoranda on sessions with the senior
staff of the Assassinations Committee subsequent to the 4 May Task
Force meeting, covering Committee éommplaints and our pre-position

; bargaining with them on certain ‘Key i issues, @. Boyt

a. Nosenko: ‘Has refused to be video taped; —
the Committee staff is pondering this decision.
The "formal" session has been slipped from 31 1 May
to 21-22 June. .

b. The question of whether the claim of
sources and methods can extend to information known
to a defector before he is recruited or defected.

3. Iunderstand there has been concern over the range of access
by Committee staffers to sensitive information. I think you should know

  
