 

 

 

 
 
 

a sl
CONTINY ATION. OF
CHSPATCH

 

pra oz
safer a) eta, pene La. fe etil) appears te be artrenety fora of (eels and

haa nol reived any suspicions for mary eons. snly once nas ba gent loted
Gartilie by cope ta ter. Thés coneermed tra fucvident of the | eurnant -ernstela
concert in PelainksS on L Letebar, (8 mentioncd srevicusty, Velud asked
Costilie if he couls got tiexats for Colud ef he bed loen reeling euch rood
reviers of the urchastrats perforsunce dn tre Uris Costille war able ts get
tay art gave_tran to colub as a gift, fer wich tolub was noat appreciative.

02 se lub teld aS that be had an axtra ticket art Uf ane had ng ehjecticn to

ging a poriic pisce with him, she cculd heve it, A nitsber of (ines he

OZ asked fi! S if she was sure ste wanted to go with nim, Coluh atteapted to

a ner bew 4t weald leck for an Ancrican student to be sean with @
Foviet diplosat at @ fimetion «hich would wtoubtally ve attended by port of
the American mmbe say 22S; 5 stated ehe hardly knew anyone at the tmbassy and
benides sho was free to ewer fricnis, Goluk-obvicusly was quite dice

* OV barbed that [AkJ§ would ext in trouble beicg seen with him and atated: “You

ar

Pe.

goa't waters . If ] saw a Soviat student with an American diplomat, at
would be my duty to send the Soviet hone imeealztely. b> $ resporded that
Ahings were different for Anerican citisens end.taat wa did not live in o
police states, She atated that che coubted very auch if anyone in the Debasey
eared one way or the other, Colth gave her the ticket and told her they wuld
moet at their seats which were together. Curing the intermission Golub got
wp by hievelf and walked sround slcne. (# li vgteber Colub eslied Costilie.
to icvite tia to luneh, (This fs tie firet overture Colub bas made tovard
Contdlle sinee the beginning of Septacber.) He thanked Costille profusaly
fer the tickets, and Costille asked him if he wes able to ase both of thes.
fe stated of course and that be hod given the other ona to his Inglish teacher
who maa an American student in ileleinxi., Costilie hod to sh. poturad
interest ond asked bin wo thia wea. Colub then tuantified(Ar 2;
what an intelligent girl he thought she was, that he nad met Rear on tho trein
eouwing from Leningrad, amt that they had bean eaving conversetion evenings
din English together. (he Balleve thet Colub felt compelled to bring this out,
as he had to sork unuer the aeguaption thet some aserican hed seen bin with
(ys: During the dascription of (42/5, he nada a definite altaapt to iupress
atille, his enly contact at the Awcrican tebsasy, that his relationship was
etri ty above aboard and that he hed nothing to hide.) At his next meeting
with (AbY§ he told her thst he had bad‘ lunch with Costille, the parsen whe hed
given the tickets, nmi that during the convareation it ceme out that hao
had tax@A{AE]s to the concert and thst she was teaching him Snglish. Colub
weid thot ad vice-consul he (Castilla) war responsible fer the behavicur of
Amoriesn citizens in Helsinxi, (iolub added they he trusted Coutilie, howerer,

of arys responded thst Coleb wonpitins too big a thing cut of thie, Colub hae

returned to this, iseua wi rY5,. mor has he euntacted Castille since tre
lmach on 1) Cotobars AAEYS received the impreesion thet Golw was sincerely
eened over her being seen with him by an Agerican diplomat. te feel that

on (ays waa a mataral choice for him to take tot senecrt since hie wife was

iin finland end music has always been one Gry5 and Golub's favorite
topics of conversation. is gave her the extra ticzet only after be had ex=-

plained come of te implications of her golnge .

S$. Soviet contacts Rath other Pulbrigét studetet Cao reason why Golmb
mer te intoreeted in ys ioe ne of ner use ae an entre to oller Fulbright
gtisterte in henetai In Cyiapers2, pra ld, ve wegtioned tht Colud was
doatrou: of matiRE(Gr)5te rood frienis, Identity: PStcr: AALI2Z ond tia wife,
ant he invited thes over for a sceisl Sr one ebeG Ys wae acnowhat reluctant
to introduce too many pecpic ta Colub art consented enty after she felt too
many reCaeala wuld tecone sueplctour. {celeb is 4 bird persen o Bey a9 we,
eetaliy. be eag-wete every aiyht in us reek until & persen can'h lorlcally
tove any nore eacuoos,)22Ke latar invit AGS. identity A, dhe latter's alto,
ant Lieutity 20 of GP SAT to nie apertment. st tte party vere Viktor
cakebl®*, Yorke Clebig ret Viktor Cpalkeysaly*’, eli frua the “ovlet -absaey
hare, ine party wae sirietiy social, ami te preag Iletened to muaic ont
denced, flree that tine .ecal nan pimrerd tue tity 4 ot yespalta ani tie whle

Uw

told Coativle

ie

i
|
 

$04-40472-10294)

 

 

 

a Lrquas | |

MWS

DISPATCH |

   
   
      
   
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
   
      
 
   
    

 

 

LUCAS LC INTE GY" Se
rtporiy Ta. .UEtt . ‘ae

[unayisies, 22 cerover 1959

2%

1. In Bringing Headquarters up to date rerarcing trol ages 7/5-Celub

Pelstionshijp we would first like to sake a few comonts on neferance clepeteh
which dclecaosed tha oewyenny! fa second Mis (iN trip fer (h2/5. Heads |
quarters bas a lower opinion df{AEY5.than the “tation haa. We agree that

22 [RFX As predebly unsuitable for say CE operation circetal arainst Colub, -/
other than reporting on her contact with hla, largely because of her personal
reluctame to beccue eny farther Lovolved vith him than she already is.
However, we aloo fool that she hes handled herself fairly well in a rather « ..
aifficalt situation. She haa never professed to being a Soviet echolar'se
euch, but. ehe is fairly knowledgeable and convereant on Cemsunist theory and
current polities and has been able to bold her ow in dieeuseiona with Colub.
She is 5 prodigious reader ars! keope up all aspects of U. 8. political
and cultural life. (She wae employed byjSenstor J cksonjot Washingten State
din his last campalzn. ay

2 42 fer-as her overall produeticn on her RED-WIA trip le concerned,
it de trus thst it was "rot startlingly incressive;" however, no mention was
af the inforeation on Seviet public reaction to the ferlin cristae sent
a was ‘over disseninated, Crented the invorsation was negative,
b it waa contritutive during that critical period, In any event
this wes coe of the main reasons fur herjtrip. the only other positive intal-
LUigerse we reported was included infer 7 ond 956, Many details were lacking,
a8 you soiat out, but both sirhtings were fleeting and were asde when sho was
trovelling, Alec, ve wuld like to stress that the customer evaluations of
C3 3/403,094, which included both of the alcve Meld reporte, eteted that the
report would have been improved considerably if detaile euch as the exact
de » arrival and sirhting Wines had been included, Cur flald report,
22 (crn 947, ineluted this infomation but it was left cut of Headquarters dis~-
seninated report. We will debrief her on thie particular aighting for any
edditional irformation.

 

3. Tee above ecexsents are acadente and are not intended to puch the
possibility of a second RFOSLIE trip, unless coxo unforeseen operational
_Opportumity prese.te iteelf. +e agras wita igo. thet ner poteviial on enciner
mounted trip aay be limited dus to her close contact with Gelub. Althougn we
have never crowlced ancther sponeored trip to Lar, aho has exrreesed rer desire
and willingness lo see more of tne Scviot Union. Golth har aleo tojd jer that
ehe shouls meke a return trip prior to her departure free Pinlandetuc)s bas
mentioned te Golub har desire to perhaps travel scrosé the traneaSiberian bf
to Viediwosiok and, travel conmections permitting, continue der journey acrosa
the Facific to ner home in bastington State, (‘hie uss her own idea.) Volub
iret, undouttedly in aa etterrt te Lapress har, sald trat he thoucnt he et uld
arranye 1%. tiowever, since thea fe hes bick-traceod aml cald he hallewea! ib
would Bs a Little cifficall. “e acurt if auch a trip wouit ever te rosritle,
dub Gf br sume atroke of luca 1% caad abut; ve feol it definitely wert: cur
Saing asorg sith it.

xa
he (23/s-ceiun helatlonsnipe Colub coetimsea to con rps on a weenly
asie sR eich tier ane chives ale br foreal ay i leetcna, and te in tum
Ye Ceacaing fur Surrlan, fie seetinga cortimin bo bs atrictis enekal, anf
oO.ab {8 of4li steying ciewr of controversial, political Ue cica, ee we Pojurteal

 
 

 

 

Oo aays hes asde a special note of obesrving (heir atiitutes tounrds ane anther

 

CONTINUATION OF : | i
OIPAtcix : Cra 4&lay

statin, he wuld ita to get tepetier with tle core eutek to brush up his
tag iahe boun sere semeerct ecel ta ite Mroreral, ami iden state: he was tes
Gary with hte mtucies to scet every osek. 1 @$X fas toon aver only enee cr
Relce to thelr aparteert, A one acca a - to Cer abeut e@ halfiag ,
bour ant they rekurced giving no excuse!
ealled Iden ¢20 owe or taice for lunch. srtings ape? rictly social
and usually onty ont byte tonics are airccesed, Tie! ot (tr ajan32 has one
preseed Nis concern 5 over having toc secr sontacs 1th Tegal, @ ‘oriat
Ciplomst, but that tie = bing? Gama to be Rirkisge emeugh and the eonver=
Galivne ware interestings CAkl5 (a searing we tevormed of there conteeta, and
Shay sawe lo onincide sith the Soviet enphasix dal elsinkd of culturally
cultivating Western diplamsts ond other nemofticlal torelguere. *

6. Borie Zlodin (201~196342)**; ta hos deen met hy beth(I7P§ and Costdtle
soctally. fe@ is shout $*20", 170 Los, lipnt trraa “hair (such Lichter in
tolor than shown in hia ERiCAP Sotobook photo’, siin byt eturdily bailt,
&ppeare to ba ia food physical shape, rough skin, starp, be face. Although
ho KDCAP sheet otctes be was born in Svardlcvar, SiSerti’ Li7/5 dal Loves
thet he ts 4 Rarelo-Finn, He also teld Costilte Wat-be had Juet returned
(oumor 1959) from a vecaticn in Petrosavodek, Caraié~Pinniab USK, He epeaks
tome Pinnieh, a little mgiish, cwedieh ani Sistas. =o is friendly, quict,
moderate to heavy oacker snd drinker (he handles Aig Licuor wall), ard does
apt give the impression ef being tco cultured ar ewerly intelligent, Juccing

by appearence and rere be de not momeane a versen sould Lihe to neet
ay

 

  
   

 

alone in a dark alley° S43 met him once or tales at Colabts apertuent and
again at the Soviet exhibition in Malsicki, ke ass Mriestly to her, but stilt
standoffish. Sines Zlebin le such a different ive tiaa cColub or cogal, Bxys
aazed Golub why Zlotin was aleays incluted in teeir eeciel evenings, Colas ve
responded that he did cot Luxe Zoblin but that liodin alvsys agked te fcae
aleng to practice tngileh. Costillo net Slebin by chsee at the reotaurant

at the Soviet exhititicn, se war with Segal amt Shaiboveky, and all three,
upon Costille’s invitation, joined Costille for a few drints., Clobin wag
aildly friendly to Costille anl entered only oceaslorally in the conversation,
uBich was domin.ted on the Coviet side by Cegal. :

Te Golub-legal Cha LkovakpZlobin-lilkol ay Se Rakerer (201-2597402)
relationghip: It is Roteeortiy that thease fire Perle spend so auch of their
tine_oquteide ef the effics togetner, henever ioles plats 4 socinl evening

Otter E55 4t is alvayo tide group viich is Preemt, te toe exclusion ef ether
ang.I<h eptaking :oviete in the Eabasay. Coatille bas actiend Golub, Tegal,
Ghalkovaky ani tlebin together oceasionally eccialty. (38 has never net
Rekayev.) ‘Thay osteusinly are in differert offices in the tabasey (Colub-
ccasulste, Zegal-cultural, Rakeyor-Trud, and, (t te believed, Chalkovsay and
flobin ars cultural), but Perbape thio frieniedip stesa fro another, actual,
daty relationabipOWrj5-has also noted thie ard es ox cerssios cones wuluds
wry these people vere the only ones invited to hie partive for weeterners, .
Lelub responded that the Ambassador had made a special request for all Fabasay
fereonnel to sake a ccncerta: effort to get cut amt epelalise with Finns and
other westerners and Unee people wore the only case interested la dning so,

intem-relationgips ard bao © ocluden that Golsd te seMinitely the
Goainent person in tae group and, if they are warkirs ciceely together, would
be the one wort Lively to be etlef, The rest of toe Riererchy in orver of
inportanes would te “egel or Mikeyev, Chaltovaxry ead flenlty Clboin. TAs ts
how if appeers to Costille also, , :

8. Partner blo data en Solud: Golad's wife retamed to nelainkd an
7 teveeber and surprise: biz ster an ateence of ateut » coe (AV 5Aatas
that Gia ralatlorstiip apieurs to ce th: wate ar il ess belere Rr>. tolst aft,
Galud wea ¢isd te Dave cop Back. ULs <ife'e return noe net eres ed fo@ludts
int ereat in /PZen tee wife ta as Prlendty tevaree (OP. 4b 1s Solu,

Velub @tLlh tnitcetos Usk te te soe fer a treneler wareliwe efter te firet
OF the yorr, -o te guile sexiows to reave Finlasd oy ae foale Siw years te

 
 

 

 

    
   

CONTINUATION OF . ‘ °
oseatcn . Er

 

 

ajay
.

2

teo long to s,end in say ene place, te iw etill talking adcul « possible
aestmment ty Law York. 4% Lee Caetscie/.ciuh lund. dagetiber Golub, cage
Fietaly on his om, referred to ie (neident descr: bei Ta le a/b anc erain
Weoked Coatilie for fixing hie wp elth a cute anc for a nice evening. te
tnen teld Cestilie thet he ard an @ne occarion pnened the girl, Iden of

22 Ge aj}aoco, and Lnvited ner over to hie acortnent. Ther nad a nice iatizate
dinner, anid Golub invited her to spemi tne aight, te which she agrend, They
want into Lhe bedreom, Golub geve her his wife's pajama and then he left
the roms for a faw maloutea, then he ea. back he found her etancing muce in
the mivile of the roam, <celub told Costilio that he lemediately left the
reta, wont to bed in another beireum bucauee "I just dom't work that fest.*

7 md thst ia the lust Uolub har seen of her, according to hin. (Note?

O| (fad /6 Pontimed trat the young Laty hed not besn calica by Golub alnce

Ket evening.) One Mnal rote uhich night give an indieation ef Golub's

tagertanee in the Sevict mtasey is that he acconpanied Mikeyan om saay of
the Istter’a official vialts while he was in Miniend, , It te kaon thet Be
was with Hikeysn during the press ccnfermee and that Colub wee invited te
attend @ mali dinnwr party given by Mikoyan st the Soviet Rebeesy on 27 Oat,

oe (Ay, 5 saw Golub the day after this party, aml he was eustetic over having been
Beked to attend what he termed euch an important event for auch a young aan
(hdeself)e 6 ia

 

Willies 1. Coctille

 

27 towendor 1959

Distribution
3 ~ 5A

a

  

 
