74-0000

Additionally, the files of other individuals associated with
Mr. Robert A. Maheu were also searched. These included, Mr.

 

 

 

Peter R. Maheu, Mr. ‘and Mr.
currently an Agency contract employee, who was utilized
during 1968 and 1969 in under a commercial cover

 

 

 

arrangement provided by the prganization.

3. Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny
Roselli which summarize contact on 26 February 1971,
initiated by this Agency with the Commissioner, Immigration
and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice > Mr. Raymond
Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr,
Roselli in the action being initiated for deportation. It
was determined that this Agency would be kept informed of the
progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to
forestall public disclosure of his association with the United
States Government. The Attorney General at the time of these
contacts with the Immigration and Naturalization Service was
Mr. John N. Mitchell. ; . -

4. On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.
John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle L.
Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton F. Ense,
Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,
Office of Security. The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny
Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,
including the memoranda cited in paragraphs 1 and 3 above. Mr.
Miller indicated that he planned to await a follow-up call
from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

2; pe Ca
Stanton F. Ense
Deputy Director of Security
Personnel Security and Investigations
 

([toatotzat0r3e]

o.

 

' MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Agency ‘Contact with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service on Behalf of Mr.
Johnny Roselli

1. Reference is made to a request forwarded to the
Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.
Richards, Office of the Inspector General. The Subject
of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on
13 March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority
Chief Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Presidential
Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L, Miller, Deputy Legis-
lative Counsel. Mr. Lenzner cited a 14 May 1962, Agency
memorandum which refers to contact between Mr. Lawrence
Houston, then General Counsel, and the then Attorney
General, Mr.. Robert Kennedy, with the intention of “quashing
of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against Sam
Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)."" Mr. Lenzner is under-
stood to believe this reported contact and the circumstances
surrounding the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana
during President John F. Kennedy's Administration were being
surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail-
type information on certain principals in the Democratic
Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information on
Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating
to this matter.

2. The files and records of all individuals identified
with the planned utilization of Mr. Giancana were searched.
These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maheu, who arranged
contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli; Mr.
Richard Cain, recently deceased, who was-identified in the
press as knowledgeable of Agency association with Mr. Giancana;
and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff emplovee, who
acted as principal contact with Mr. Rosoelilitdurins tie
late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli's incarceration.

E2 [MPDET
CL BY 061142

 
