13-00000

ot
on

| file.on OGUALD and pase then to us, end the FRI gave us a copy ef the

| Suviet Consular file on OGMALD which hed bean publicly given by the Soviet
, énbassaiar to the Seeretary of Stata. On Friday 6 Decenber 1963, Beputy
| Attornsy Generel Katzenhach invited us to review the FBI's cenprehensive
| cur information was correctly quoted. Ve found the report highly

| interesting ang no threat to our eecurity, as Long as it wen xead only

| hy the authorized tavesticative bodies.

After the first few days, the CIA investigation of the case was

 

  

| end enalyeie ef the most important security eases, and by a few officers

 qnd enalyets of our Western Handsphere Divialon.

 

: 4s seen a8 our Mexico City Gtation realized that Les OSHALD vas the

| prin sumpect, it begun re-esseening ali the written telephone trensaripte *
in its files covering the Soviet Eskassy fur the pertinent period. ‘The

sctual tapes were also reviewed, tut msny of them bad bean erased after the
13-00000

SECRET

norenl twa weeks wait. Several calla believed to involve OSWALD were
discovered and their contents cabled to Washington, where they were

oe disseminated to the White House, the State Departuant, the Federal.

 

Soxgan of Investigation.

OSMALD's wawe was net actuelly mentioned in these additional calle,
to him. ‘These cells are summarized below in chrouclegical onier.
thay cover the period from 27 Septesher 1963 te 3 October 1963, the uhole

span of OSWALDts vieit te Mexice City es leter learned fran travel records.

  

   

‘SF: Gopbouhor « & mat: phonen tine: Soyket MA tery Attache eek ini cogie cs 5
eays he needs e visa te go to Cdesen. Man ensuering eaye he aheuld call
15-60-55 and ask for the Conaul. Caller asks for the address, and it is
given to bia. (Mere is no special reason fer Linking this onli te OSWALD.)
| 21 September, 4105 Mi ~ ‘tho Cuan Consulate phoned the Soviet
; Consulate. Silvia Duren, Meciean national elerk of the Cuban Consulate
talked te « Seviet officiel, saying that a male American citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit vies te pase through Cube on his way

SECRET,
13-00000

 

 

 

”

SeGREL

our overscas stations, and many pieces of information on OSWALD and his
wife had been received beck. The Mexico City Station researched tts
tetephom tape very thoroughly and cone up with several nore conrerentions
probably ievelving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this names these
connected him alse to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. Several Mexicans
were exrested and questioned about his activities, giving s xeod pleture
of what he was really up te. Many conferences were held with the FAI
Matson officer who asked ue for certain actions ané passed us information
from the FBI investigation. Omethe miuns side, « host of fabricators,

   

most of which we investigated. Al of these are seon dlecredited, bat they
are still coming in.

During this phase ef our work, wo served primarily in support of the
FSI, wirich wee entrusted by the President vith the major responsibility for
the investigation. ‘The FSI was too busy to supply us with much of its ®
own information, but aniwars were given te specific questions we posed to
aseist cur investization. ‘The Department of State did photegragh ite entire

- SECRET

 
13-00000

as the poseible essaesin end asking for traces. The megenge wee passed
| ea ot once by the Chfef CI, Mr. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Neal of hie

Special Investigations Unt. Mrs. Betty Eguter of this Unit immediately

 

recognised the name of Lee GGHELD and went for bie file. At the same

tine, Mee. Bustos of the Mexino Desk, who bad written eur first feport ca

 

OSWALD on 10 Gotober recognized the nase fron reais reports ena went
efter the seme fille. Mr. Exlichhardt, Mexico Deck Chief, wee was home on

leave, heard the neva and phoned in « reminder that we bad something on

u

GGHALD. While ve were preparing a cable te Mexieo City qelzing then for

   

 

Soter of imarice Mevelenst ats eubled te us a reusinder of the informiten
the Station had sent in an him.

For the next week, @ denen poople in the Agency ware continuously
engaged in handling incoxing messages on the case, writing veperta to be
eabled out, tracing the names mentioned, and researching files. Withine  «
week, 27 cabled reperte bad gone out to the White House, the State Deyert-

meant, and the FAI. Many cables of guidauce and ingriry hei been sent to

 

 
 

 

Eubessy was not OSVALD anyway. As chance wiulé have it, none of our

  
  
    

several photo obsesution points in Mexico City had ever teken an identi-
fiable pieture ef lee OSWALD.

Gur Kexieo City Station very often produces information like this
on US eitigens contacting Soviet bles esbaseies in Maxico City. Freemently
the information we get is extresely incrdmizating, and on ome or two
scensions ve have even been able to apprehand end return to the USA
American military persounel vhe axe attempting to defect. In ali such

cases, our Headquarters deak requests and obteins the special peruiseion of

 

citizen to other csovermment agencies. Derogatory information on Americans
is net treated routinely; in each cage the DDF or hia Assistant perseunliy
serutinige the infermetion, make eure it fe credible, and decide whether and
to whom it will be passed. Only in absolute emergencies is the Kexico City
Station authorized to pass such information directly to the FBI office in |

the U.S. Bubasay.

At this writing (13 December 1963) we do not knew whet ection the FRE

 
13-00000

 

and other agencies way have taken based on qur report. We wummise thet the
FRE may have made leeal cheeke through Mexican authorities te see if

Lee OSWALD was actually in Mexico City on 1 Cctober. Indeed, later in-
vestigation has confirmed ali the details of bie trip, where be stayed,
and what he 424. fe avoid crossing lines with the FRI, au Mexice Station
unferteck ne local. investigation of its em. As we now know, OSWALD left

Mexfeo an 3 Octeber end was no longer there when one report was put out.

 

Since thie telephone tap operation is a joint one

 

 

 

 

the Mexicans also bad the 1 October intercept on Lee OSWALD, —

 

When vera of the shooting of President Kenedy reached the offices
of our eperating divisions end staffs on the afternvon of Friday 22 Hoven-
ter 1963, transistor radios wore turned en everywhere to follew the »
tragedy. When the name of Lee COWALD was heard, the effect was electric.

A phone message fram the FBI came at about the same time, neming OSWALD

 
 

 

Ve Diseover Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

CIA G44 produce one vary significant piece of inforsatian on Les
OSWALD before he shet President Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our Mexico
city Station intercepted a telaptone call Lee OSKALD made fran someplace
in Mexieo City to the Soviet Eubassy there, using his wn neme. Speaking
broken Rugeian end using bis true name, OSWALD was talking te the Enbasay
guard, OBYEDEOY, whe often encwers the phone. OGUALD sat ho had vieited
the Bnbassy the previons Saturday (20 Septenber 1963) end apaben to

consul wheee nate he bad forgotten, and whe had

 

 

“gran for him to Vashingtone He wanted to know if there were “anything
new." The guard said if the consul wes dark it was (Valeriy Viedeirovich)
ROSTIOOV. The guava checked with semecne elee and sald that the message
hed gone out but no anewer hed been received. He then hung up. .

Tais plece of information was proéuced fren a telephone tap center

 

 

which we operate jointly xt

 

 

  
   
  
  
   
   

‘
‘
104-10004-10199

 

Pom
—

C1. cof “peNTIAL [1 SECRET

 

EXTENSION

3613

 

To: Officer, ‘desi tion, . ber, ad? , . a -

ao sergne nomen @ . . DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom |
(INITIALS fo whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

_| RECEIVED: FORWARDED . ee ns . . ‘

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fore 610 “SSI (] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL =] UNCLASSIFIED
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

small, staff in Mexico City. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone converss-

on SECRET

i

is highly secret and|

| Gur jeint center produces great
| :

masees ef telephone intercepts which ere transcribed and reviewed by our

ent

tien of 1 October had been trenscribed end a swmary of it cabled to
Washington. The name Lee OSHALD meant nothing special to our Hexteo

City Station, bat in their report they @14 judge his te be an American

male.

    
 

The cabled report was received in Washingtes on 9 Oetober and checked

  

 

the Seviet Embassy in Nexice City was probably the Lee OSWALD who hed
defected to the Soviet Union in 1959 and returned to the UEA tn 1962. on
10 Octeber 1963, the day after the report fram Mexico City, CIA eadquarters
7 seat out a cabled report aheut Lee OSWALD's phone call to the Soviet
Embassy} the reyert went to the PRI, the Departmant of State (because
OSWALD was @ US citizen), and to the Navy Departwent (because be ves a

former Marine.) The cabled report te these agencies highlighted the

 
13-00000

 

A copy of thic same cable ws delivered by hand te the Inmmizretion and

ait

  
   
   

lakiikee® that the Lee OSWALD mentioned wae probably the feruer defector.

Haturslisation Service, with whieh ve have ne cable link. ‘the seme day
a leng cable went out to Mexico City inforsiax our Station ef the back-
ground of éefectar Lea OSWALD and asking fer more information, Our Station
wad instructed to pass ite information on the phone call te the Nexico
City offices of the FAI, the Exbasey, the Naval Attache, and the Imstare-
tion and Neturalication Service. Tais was done.

a ite origival report of 9 October, exieo City had sald it bad a
1 October 1963, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation
in Mexies City provides us with secretly taken photographs of many but not
all visitors to the Soviet Bubessy there, teken with telephoto lenses.
Accordingly, ve cabled the Mavy Department on 24 October 1963 asking for
a photegemph of Lee OSWALD fron his Marine Corps days so we could coupare
phates. We hed not received this photegreph by 22 Hovember 1963, but in

any event, it tuned out thet the men photectaphed outside the Soviet

SECRET
