 

 

 

     
 

7 July 1961:

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/l,
le

(s BARK, Bernard
(20251689)

1. The Subject, an operational asset of both Havana station
and JHATE, is currently in the Washington, D.C. area at.the
suggestion of Mr. Howard HUNT, in an effort to resolve his cithe -
genship status. He was interviewed by @ representative of :
WH/L/S0 on 15 July 1361 at the Shoreham Hotel to develop all

- available background information concerning his loss of citizen-
ship and rrevious steps taken to restore it. :

_ (20 BARKER was born 17 March 1917 at Havana,’ Cuba of &

native-born U.S. father and a Cuban 4

_ &% the 0.5. Lmbesry and he was recomized as having acquired U.S.

. Gitizenship by Dis th: tarongh the citizenship of his fz e- He

traveled, not on a « passport, but on an identity card proclaiming

- his U.S. citizenship, uring vorld War Il, he entered the U3.
Aruy Air Corps, was shot dow on his 12th _

 

 

  

}
{
to
i
f
i

and wes a pris
as a Captain, .
Were war he
bilingual abilities ‘s.

Margaret on their visit to
House commendation,

  
 
 

3 INTERNAL
o! USE ONLY

Cl ~ WFIDEWTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

  

 

ratchet

Bey SecreT

   

‘
t
t
re

 

    
 

RETURN TO CIA”:
Background Use
Bo Not Reprot

 

 

 
    
  
  
   

we

" itizenship. According to BARKER's recollection, this occured
in 1953. Dre LAZO compiled a formidable file on the Subject —
and was iri commnication with 4 Washington, D.C. lezal firm,
which BARKER dimly recalls as that of Edward Bennett WILLIAMS,
who was to handle the.case locally. A private bill ws intro-
duced in the 83rd Congress by Congressman WILLIAMS of New Jersey

. to restoro the Subject's citizenship, but BARKER does not know
why no action was taken on the bill. At the time, he was in
financial difficulties and took a job as a tractor driver out-
side Havana for about 8 months, in which period he had no contact
with Dr. LAZO, who, ag BARKER believes, interpreted h’s failure
40 appear in the office as a lack of interest in pressing the case
to a successful conclusion. : : :

. S. BARKER knows that Dr. LAZO-and WILLIAMS had compiled’a -
very lengthy and documented file on his background, including his
‘wilitary record and awards from the Aruy Air Corps. Currently,
BARKER is traveling on a Cuban passport and is in the U.S. as an
"SP" paroled to Bernie REICHARDT. —

: 6. The Subject pointed out that Dr. Mario LAZO entered the
, U.S. about a month ago.and is now in the Washington areay he
QS beldeves is in contact with him. He knows Dr. LAZO is
‘familiar ’ aa is of his case and could confirm the -
» ddentity of the Washington attorney who handled the litigation .
docally. BARKER recalls visiting the attorney's office in Wash=
. 4ngton on one occasion, and Bennet WILLIAMS was the name he
recalled. He believed the lawyer was involved in the Senator
YoCarthy hearings. :

7. Based on the above information, the following recomend
ations are made.

 

 

' Be Me requested to ascertain fron Dr.
Mario LAZO ane the Washington law firm which handled
Subject's case in 1953, and the reason for the failure of the -
special bili. .

 

p. more2siess 8

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

      

: be The Office of General Counsel, be. completely briefed
~~» om Subject's case and be requested to. furnish.guidance or.
take appropriate action to-assist the Subject, whether by __
special. legislation or other means, to regain his U.S. citizenship.
