 

 

    
  

 

 

* he would have. Prefer res}
. Geule not follow thie inclination and she

   

Astach. to G-7912

Case 915360-%

AGE: 32 * NATIONALITY: Rassisa SEX: Female
Ms : °
' Preliminary Survey:

Due to the inadequacy of the submined Mater

Centative Summasiging statements con bs made,

‘Banmarising Ratementai

'

! The writer is evidently a person with

iheveell and to. not easily pushed acide,

of intelligence, te well educated aad hae

" paatertal ohe hae read ead studied,

| ‘tendencies are fairly wel} equilibrat
Quite constructively, She has ate

Golf with differen: thought and form

Meaning of a subject. She POG8e8000 a560 and.
Self, verbally ae well ae in writing, .
ia an underatandabic and acceptable manner, and
winciag in her argumenis, She hae somo histrion’
€o dramatize herself and the material she is

Bho loves to have an audience which ad
she tries to exhibit. She does no
she is more reproductive than creative,

@ certain amount of mental independence
fully into her accepted environmental pai
been subjected to some kind of discipline
function within a clearty defined framew:
Clear, logical and fairly adaptable, She

Gao has more of an artistic than @ sclontifie mind,
be divected toward the impression she can eveate an

geed show, Thus, she may elaborate and exsggor
Gant dotaile at the exponse of working out and preea

& Rroag ege,. wha ascerte
fhe possceese a Gigh degree
thoroughly ebeosbed ths
Hor tatellectual aad practtcab
od, and they Support each other .
ong Capacity fur identifying hare
patloras which ene integrates
#, &ha possesses fiona gination .
® by suber cmindednces aad matlare
uous and wanecersory material, but.
vital potate la more comnples ‘probleme,
Hor inain interees
toward making
ale some yunlimpore
Hilng the undorlyiag
skill in eupreésing here
She can formulate her thoughte

can bs quite cone

fe qualitios and kee

doaling with, Probabiy, __
to be an actrees, but for @om

tel. only highly

28 FeAaeN une
feels frustrated tn this respect,
mire® whateyor capa bllitios
¢ possese much genuine Originality;
However, ale. Poscesaon
which shs iitegrates skille
Orme Apparently, she has
> and she has learned tu
ork.» Her way of thinking is
$3 & careful observer, and

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 
 

(toe tneeoree] ee

Go-7912
8 February 1943

MEMORANDUM FOR 1 Calef, BD/P/sa

|
ATTENTION i &/T8O)
StBIECT 3’ Graphological Analyots 05360-%9
REFERENCE ' Momo ef Request, 8 Fobruary 1963
mo, i,
1. th rosponse to reference Fequest, subject material ,

_. & Gontract basie, TSD does not, within \teelf, possess the capae
~ bility to evaluate individual Foporte and they ore tranamitted
- Without editing or comment, ;
: 2, All physical evidonse submitted by the Fequoster and fi
 Govered In the coures of this Gnalyele, together with report of ad
analysts, is attached hereto,

” for ; XIMSEY
ARB/ALR

C/ TSD/ G

     

Distribution: — - ; |
| Orig. and 1 - Addressee a ;

 
74-0000

oe

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   

 

#15360-x Ze : . _)_Ge7H2
tt Te et enema a ig 5
arranges her affairs in a seat and orderly manner. She can figure !
end calculate and she is able to Manipulate numbers. She likes to
epend money freely and to live on a large scale. But she seems to
be accustomed to some restraint, and makes stroag efforts at getting
along with the means at her disposal. While she is able to take crdere, :
Ghe prefers to lasue them. She has some administrative abilities, i:
Bad she gates things done. She likes to handle large projects aad ; i
derives a certaia ermctional satislaction from seeing them properly i
Guscuted. In the execution of her tacks, she ts exact, conscieatious -
aad reliable, When she (6 interseted ia e job, she can muster & lot
of thoroughness, patience and persistence. She likes challeaging
‘end unusual aeelgnmentes while routine jobe tend to bore her. _Nevere
. @heless, she can force herself to concentrate well on whatever she is
* doing and to shut out any diversions and distractions, Har memosy
_ f Ganstions precissly, Apparentiy, sho hae accumulated a conaldorabdle:
“iv f @mount of profeesional knowledge and general (Information on which
_ \ oho drawe easily whenever she needa it,

 

 

; ’ . Smotionally, the writer ls a rather expanalve person wha eeems
to be very conscious of her Consiant need for salferestraint, She has.
~ her feelinge and tmpulsss under the strictest rational control and
Usually avoida being carried away by them, She la egoecontored, somes
what solfish and narcisstetic, dhe ie rather vain, and she tends to
OxRggerate the importance of herself as well as of the thinge she doos,
claims a lot of Space for herself, and in trying to hold the floor,
@he pushes others asides, She is self-confident and sure of herself,
, Gad bho can assert herself in an alrnost impertinent manner. While
S @he can play varicus social roles and has cultivated superficially
. €0™Me Binooth social manners, she can be tactiees, abrupt and ruthless
“* when she wants to reach her gozte,. She is-net likely te lose sight
of her perscnal advantage in whaiever she is doing. She has a lot of
@ggrosoion which she is usually clever enough to exprass in more
indirect ways, Constitutionally, she is sensitive and differentiated,
and has an instinctive feellag for very fine shadings. But she has
developed a certain toughness and aven obtrusiveness when she wants
te overcome obstacier which may be inher way. She is high~strung
and somewhat hysterical. Particularly tn her private life and in her.
more personal interrelationships, she can be rather erratic by moat .
unexpected actions and reactions, She can be quite baffling, becouse

 

 

  

\ af tlrnes it ie difficutt to determine if one is dealing with her or with
‘the impersonation of a role she has just created for herself. There

 

 

     
 

Sitar

IEE ae ice acct a Rano Ram pn ARS om ene oH Sane an ee sesavecmehasna ar wi

 

A cee tet

       
 

rE nat ee tt ray

jp: TERT meee vem me wemetareareny our nwt aeetegetnnenme semen «onan mannurnnonngoipomnnennnn teense

615360-X

=3- G-7H2
ret nnn IL

46 more shell than emotional substance in her makeup, and the shell

3 ay

an take on most different shapes and colors. Rationally, she is
guided by an ideological system (with personal modifications) with

| ite fundamental ethical principles, which outwardly, she follows
Father meticulously, especially for the purpose of creating a proper

impression, In reality, she exercises a number of camouflaging
capacities most cleverly and skillfully. This is intensified by

considerable seli-deceptive and dramatic abilities, Har emotional
@letortion ie more of pathological than of criminal nature, with the

Feoult of being emotionaily not reliable and trustworthy, She may
get bavolved in suestionable activities, and in apite of her intellie
ence, she may not have the full grasp of the seriousness of her~-

undertaking because of emotional reasona, Apparently, she does not
;, have any deep-seated loyalty and in her con
jf 8 which she is accustomed to-switch roles
use te accuse her of wrong doing or arguing with her because she is.

, 60 very Gubjective, No matior what, she is alwaya right, as far ae

. he le concerned and she turns everything around in her favor. There
(@ almost a touch of nativity in her obstinate pretense of righteousness,
tn her mind, fency and reality are so close togather, that there te

cepte the world ts a stage
It would not be of much

hardly @ demarcation line, Her psycho-phyaical rasources-are .

buffictent energy and stren;
functloning effectively,

évidently uses to a g

purposes,

Summary:

The writer has a variety of good innate capacities which should
qualify her as a corapetent worker in her professional field, Shs stse
has acme potentialities which could be utilized for covert activities.

- However, her serious emotional distortion is the b#616 for considerable
unrelability and inconsistency of her attitudes,
be rather well camouflaged.

& condition which may

This report must be evaluated a5 qualified information, because

' the handwriting standards submitted for analysis are not adequate.

  
 
    
       
     
    
    
    
 

-Grained by her emotional tensiveness and complexity, but she has’ i ot
eth at her disposal to ‘support her general
She posseases a strong willpower which she
voat extent for self-defensive and solf-protective

 
    
   
  
 

       
    
   
        
    
 

   

 
