 

SU sent

 

i + Office of General C:
1 = Office of Security
1 ~ R&A chrone

1 - DP reports file

 
 

 

 

 

oat

2. The following were Garrison's charges:

 
 

Be senna wae murdered because he favered @
{aati see ee :

 
 

   

_ »b. Kennedy was the victim of a CEA plet. CIA
has made common cause with the military-industrial
establishment because of a vested interest in maintaining
the cold war.

c. CIA is committed to the land war in Asia,

whereas one of President Kennedy's last orders. divected

@ reduction of troops there, ee .
da. AW.S. president who brings the U.S. te the

brink of peace will suffer Kennedy's fate.

e. Asked why the program had been designed for
a European audience, Garrieon said that the growing
infivence of CIA on U.S. media had made it irapossible for
him to be heard in his own country.

ae Reference A gaya Garrison, calm and composed, waa

° " pufficiontly credible to elicit rather favorable reviews from generally 7

well informed Dutch newspapers. “Several Dutch viewers algo
commented on the credibility fe of} his person and presentation.
Likely that the NTS will try to seii this pregram to other European
stations."

4. Reference B says that the Butch press was generally favorable
and that many comments noted he seemed logical and in contrel af his
facts. The majority opinion ameng Embassy, USIS, and CIA personnel

[at The Hague]ie that he seemed credible to a large propertion of the
Dutch viewers. (SYMPATHIZER 17}feels that the program created an
ali-time low in the U.S. image in the Netherlands. Dutch TY alluded
to a third part of the interview, still to come.

5. Garrison was interviewed by William L. Ol¢tmans. A
synopsis regarding Oltmans follows:

 
[id f0104-10350) ..

 

   

      

 
 
 

bterview of Garrison on Dich EY oy o.
WEiilaws Le Olena {20b~185221)

REFERENCES: A. Joint State-USIA cable, HOM 553,
HAGUE, « 3961,.24 February

“Eerie Fiigua" S870; }T 59064

27 February 1968

    
   
          
 
  

SUMMARY

Garrison appeared on Dutch TV on 22 February.1968. He
continued ~- in fact, eacalated -~ his attack upon CIA in a pereuasive |
_ performance. Heap ne somay sarees np ciel

net to be, and a hemesexual who seems: be oc ts hace Keon iniicanse
with ex-Prestdent Sukarno of Indonesia.

   
   

Gonsideration is being given to forwarding[to the Station at
sects | The Haguejovert derogatory information ebout Garrison from the U.5.
— prese and TV/radio interviews for releage to CA aggets there.

DETAILS

i. References state that on 22 February 1968 Garrison
appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch Television Foundation, NTS) during
prime tme for one hour (time not stated}. Neither reference explains
whether Garrison travelled to The Hague or whether the show was
taped in the U.S. and sent on tape to Holland. The Dutch desk believes
that the latter is true.

REVIEWED 8Y FBINJFK TASK FORCE ee ,
ON: JX .. = mT
Excluded from automatic)

RELEASE IN FULL may | costs at
() RELEASE IN PART ECRET| se
C2 TOTAL DENIAL

 
       

C3

 
74-0000

 

 

 

SEPRET

Blithe

@. DPOB 10 June 1925 Huisen, The Netherlands.

b. Studied at Yale 1950 but expelied for

       
 
 

ae

 

ec. Thereafter worked briefly as correspondent
for U.P. and for Dutch paper De Telegraaf but dismissed
by both for unstated cause. —_

4. An FBI report of 1960 states that he calls
himself anti-Communist but expresses the views “of a
great admirer of commenism”. —

oe e. An TANS report of 1961 lists his address for
1956-1961 as 11809 83rd Ave., Kew Gardens, Long Island,
New York.

{. A CIA cepert ef 1961 liste him as a UN
correspondent then planning an unsponsored trip to East
Germany, Poland, Czechosiovakia, and Hungary. Batch
correspondents sald that they had yet to see a atory written
by him. When he applied for membership in the UN
correspondents association, he was unable to produce a

extensively. He has excellent coatacts in all Communist
countries including Cuba.

g- The Haague Post of 15 April 1951, with a
nationwide readership, characterized Oltmans ag an
intimate friend of the then President of Indonesia, Sukarno,
and as having tried fer five years to arrange contacts
for Sukarno in Holland.

h. An FB! report of 24 November 1961 restates
the above and adds that he had been separated or divorced
from his American wife 18 months earlier because “he fs
not aman". He was ving with a male at the time of the
report.

i. An FBI report of | February 1962 includes an
interview with the ex-wife Frieda Bieling (ehe had remarried).

e

 
 

 

get

She said that hee ex-husband and President Sukarno
were close friends and that he wrote to Sukarno at
least once a week throughout their marriage. Around

 

that ten minutes after her wedding caremony with.
Olimans was over, she was alone. Her father, she

said, learned that Oltraans had a police record for
molesting young boys in Amsterdam. She obteined a
Mexican divorce in 1960. She said that Oltmans is at
least intellectually « Communist and believes Communiam
to be the econamic system of the future.

j- [waGu-1365, 24 October 1966, says Oltmans
wrote pro-Lumumba cles im 1960, visited Cuba in 1962
and perhaps 1963, developed friendly relations with = _
“ ‘Chicome at The Hague and may have visited China in 1944.
in August 1966 he applied for a Chicom visa at The Hague.

k. An FBI report of 12 May 1967 saya that Oltmans
claimed to have written for Ramparts an article about CIA
in Indoneelz. No euch article has been found.

&. Reference B requested background information about

. Garrison's mental health and performance as a public official. A
sunmary of derogatory information from overt U.S. media for the

past year (March 1967 to March 1968) has been complied in response.
A decision will econ be made as to whether part or all of this material

may be gent to[the Station }tor use by Dutch CA agseta.

 

 
