 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHCLASSIFIED
2.85 $3!

 
ae

 

 
$04-10071-10311

 

 

‘OR TRS RECORD.

olande MAST ERRER, ‘one .

eanen de
“Armament Co
aze,; #4020, is
char military weaPons fire, “Bepjent. bor:
is believed to bea naturals.

} . Boe
abject makes frequent sales trips to Leta s wita. Because.
the nature of his main product (machine Pistols. ith ‘siiencers) he
ess ‘te top. Latin erican goveramentel ficials and -

He bas persia, ty

in Atlanta.-
when he retur

dons “TT yeedived a. letter ‘from

 
‘ols ins oT ee ane comet nd specifically named -
ferrer meationed that both. Naza’
: ng ‘ a
Mexican Government’: Soli ‘cy of light vert te ues oF
‘short, prison terms .for bandits and/or gue ‘illas pains -

juse on the outskirts ‘of the. they that, the police
sed--for unofficial detentions and heavy-handed. interrogations.
0, complained that the local Catholic. Archi shop was
7 licated | with the insurgents as well, as ce gin U. S. filn.

“Bravo also implicated a professor that was
ip din Guerrero in late 1971. Bravo believed that -
professor {Jaime CASTREJON Diez, Rector “of ‘the University
ro], actually conspired with the-insurgents for his*
kidnapping in srder to raise the ransom money for the. .
ovement. [The ransom was fjnally: spaid b; . president

ub ject travelled again to ;
nice jreéeh ea Baa cals
ve

-Hasfer “They travelled. “bys
r east Of Acapulco~. ‘to an.

 
14- 00000

 

laimed he’ forgo he prisoner’ $name, |
Brave didsnet trust the attaenty or the Guerre ITO
‘Stat pol cc Sise had. -his men take: avec a 01

out: “Force, Seven"! . participating Ame [cans - were ex-range

q borne Marine or Special Forces’ type

combat experience. - ‘They. were armed with "GAR-15 (H-16)° ‘rifles:

andi some had M-79 grenade launchers. Other Americans operated -
Isewhere in Latin America. "Force Séven” provided training
o-the insurgents and,. whenever possivlée supplied weapons. -

“the! Americans were paid in money and drugs, mostly

marijuana, ‘but some cocaine. ‘Masferrer ;3aid no heroin was \j
wientioaed. The prisoner said the insurgents used the’ money
-fron the drug ‘smuggling to finance operations. Bank rebvericd

had Become increasingly, difficult. since the Army began: posting;
med. guards at; area banks. The ‘prison Tr Said he had. worked. ,
under Genaro VASQUED | ‘[Mexicot 3s infamous
fled in 4 car accid Last. The piigoner™ put -
guerrilla strength. at about; 1,000.men. Masferrer, however:
“said Bravo.felt that figur ‘to. be high... The prisonsr - ‘also
meritfoned that sont of °t! iz ; eceiv

 

 
