he

al
S_ .

an a

eee a . va revuhure CIA
; Background Use Only

SECRET ~ . aMe Not Reproduce

ow 2.

in Spain-(which Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa was in~
formed.that. there is a.plan to:overthrow the Castro regime ~
and to kill Castro and sowe.of his main leaders, The plot is
led by Cubele# and some of the -March 13-Movement, plus (I be-
lieve) some:-military officers; They must move very quickly —
because more and more people are.learning of the plot ‘and ~
there.is growing ‘xisk of exposure,’ They are anxious to have

" some coordination, or at leaet ‘consultation, with responsible

Americans, ~!They are: not :confident: that they could win an.all-

_ out fight against.the Castro forces, and are thinking more in’ _

terms of taking control for a short time.(perhaps only a few

i hours), -killing Castro and his most effective men (thus __
- ruining -the Castro movement. forever), end then trying to hold

out..for as -long.as feasible,“ It-is essentiel that ‘they know
what,.if anything,'.the Americans might«de to help, ‘now and/or -
later, when. the-coup. is attempted. Also, they wished to alert

the United States Government-to what was: being planned,’

. “aes Bt Ee 0: J VR
venpthe. Cubans: might have’ turned t |€he CIA
man in-Madrid) << However, they* believé s completely.
unreliable,:.:A Cuba c t toMadrid sometime ago by —

  

 

     

the Castro: people es fooled by her and, being
very fond of women, @&€ Héf tp in an apartment in Madrid. He

aiso arranged for her.to‘work with the International Rescue __
Committee, «When. the proper moment’ came;four months ago, she °
flew back to Havana with-some very-useful Files, In these -
circumstances-the:Cuban“plotters have no confidence whatever
in They urgently asked Espinosa to be their go-

be reliable American officials. The “top security"

man-returned to Havana, while one representative of the
plotters waited in Spain for an anéwer, .

~~ Espinosa hurriedly ‘returned ‘to ‘New York City. He called |
O'Brien of the New York ‘FBI. to ask that ‘the latter arrange for
his to telk-with some serious and reliable man from CIA,
O'Brien did so,- Espinosa then:told the ‘foregoing story, and
more, to a CIA man named "Hal", Hal impressed Espinosa as-
being intelligent and reliable, Espinose understands thet Hal
or someone else went. to Spain to check on his story. At all
events, Espinosa was assured CIA understood the urgency of the

matter and that he would be calied within a few days. “A week

hee passed, However, no call has come and time is rapidly

SECRET
 

AOMA0108-10838) Cpe hi . This docuagnt consid ee mmm DAGOD

   

. € ; liuuber messes .co9las,, Ser hes nL Leen,
~ X= SECRET. im
ARA/CCA ~ Mr. Stevenson ; July 9, 1965 <

ARA ~ George Lister

 
   
   

 

: Visit of Cuban Extle, Victor Espinosa nt

  

' a Ia accordance. with our. ‘ecaweraa tian yesterda a
| forth. below, azKepore. on the. wisit. ‘Of Victor, Eepinosa,
f ‘

 

nats A Veneauelan. ‘Christian. ‘Democratic fiend. “of. ‘aine, ‘Valmore
Acevedo, called me,from New York. City -yeaterday, morning. ato. ask
as.a- personal. favor: that.I vecelve a Guban-exile.living there

_ who.bad something... "amazing". to. tell me.,,.When, 1 - expressed ‘mild.
skepticism,: Acevedo -urgently repeated his -request-and.I agreed,
Within.a@ surprisingly.short:.time the- Cuban ,.<Vietor Espinosa, :
arrived. at my- office (he. said he had.taken the plane. immedi-~.-
ately); - Espinosa gave his. address. and.. telephone. ‘mumber as .
follows: 415 East 52nd. Street, BRA 1-7875, A summary of his

be statement follows. kobe &

 

  
 

  
   

: cbeen: ‘involved. in Cuban. ration: activities
for many. cyears,,:-He opposed.Batista and. opposes. Castro.,..Ha is
not a-member of. the March.13.Movement,.but-has long.been very
eclose-to. many of -its-leaders, including: Cubelag; Espinosa was
trained. by CIA,.1in: both. ‘Louisiana and. Guatemala, and was one:
of those who was. sent- into. Cuba. -prior to :the: ‘Bay of. Pigs. - *
plans.to. become an-American citizen. in. August. of..this wen.
He admires the United. States.and American. strength and -compe- |
tence.in many fields. .He. asked a-New York acquaintenance - of:
his for the name of someone in. the Department: davolved in
Latin American. affairs, .He-was told.Acevedo knew such an
official, Espinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re-
vealing his story)»: and. the, datter: called, me. a eye oat

 

 

_« A ‘Little: earlier “this. "year. ‘Espinosa ‘received . a ‘request.
from one of his reliable. Cuban contacts in-Ruropa, asking» that
he come there quickly... Espinosa went to. Miami, obtained .falae
Cuban papers, and went. to. Paris. ‘There, . apparentlywin-the ©
presence of the Cuban Ambassador to. France, he met.one:of..the

“top security” men.of the Castro regime, who-had come to.Paris ©
for that. PURPOSE, During ‘yarlous meetings, both. in- France and

SECR SECRET .

 

Clout Se S97t_
74-0000

© C. SECRE . ~~ £
an Bee TURN To cia
Ze . ground Use Only
. oo (G0 Not Reproduce

running out. Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,
ceutiously asking whether there has been some "response", ,
but Espinosa has had to keep putting them off. Meanwhile,
the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer hes had to

return,” Espinosa keeps waiting to hear ‘whether the Americens

will play bail with the Cubeldg ‘group. . The plot has lasted |
for over 18 months, and the plotters plan to go ahead very - .
soon fio matter whether the Americans “play ball" or not. | One
reagon is. that they almost have to god ehead now, for the plot
will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless,

- Es sinoea algo referred to a jeweler by the name of
TeppelZino (spelling?t), located at 47th Street, in New York

City, Teppélino works for CIA and has frequent contact with

the Cuban Ambassador, in Paris, . The Ambassador regularly dis~ .
poses of jewelry and othe valuables made available from Cuba,

- He does this through Tepp no, However, the latter fools

CIA, ; For example, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.
Teppejtino informs CIA the price is $110,000, and quietly
pockets the difference. On the other hand, Teppéjtino and
CIA think the Cuban Ambassador does not know he is working for
CIA, but the Ambegeador does know. :
Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous
situation o& the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level
official in the United States Government unless he receives —

- at least some reply from CIA.

‘Commenti

Espinosa was not overly tense and did not indulge in his-
trionics, but I felt he was quite determined to push this =
matter further if he did not get some response within the very
near future. I cannot, and do not have to, judge his reli-
ebility on the basis of this one conversation, However, if I
had to guess at thie point I would be inclined to accept most
of what he said about ectual events, But of course there are
all sorts of obvious possibilities, including provocetion,

In accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SECRET

ci ee ee
      

ry ( eo
2 revuhn TO CIA
by ackground Use Only
Secret ; :
~&-
waiting, t * curned ana told
this was not the gort of
bat 1 would see ta that someone cath
gaia chat, officially, ‘ en}
Espinosa seemed 5' yiitied 4
py this. Hs x, L wery much
_ ye ,

pefore

 
