 

investigators would be injurious to that responsibility. He
offered to accept questions for the agent, and stated that he
would personally vouch for the procedures by which the answers
are obtained. fie emphasized that as a Presidential appointee,
confirmed by the Congress, he should be trusted in this action,
-” especially given the nature of the problem. Mr, Blake id
yet rejsct-that_offerat-that time; the silence of Chairman
tokes' letter on the point may indicate that it may not have

been reported to him.

© : ; .
sol a- 5. The Chairman's letter discusses commitments by the

Agency, citing its agreement to arrange access to current and
former employees. There is no explicit commitment to make”
‘agents available to the Committee. The letter also emphasizes

the Committee's solicitude for the Agency's sensitivities,
citing its not interviewing the agent in Mexico City after

our refusal to assist in making direct contact. In fact, the
Committee has not adhered rigerously to its commitments in this
very area. It failed to inform the Agency of its intention to
intervie in Caracas, as it has agreed to do;

when the learned of the plan to interview hin,

 

 

iG 2 objections were’ registered and ignored, Further, the Committee

failed to notify the A cy that it planned to interview a

former Agency eraployee ih Mé€ico, as it has agreed to do,
and interviewed him with tion help.. In any event, and
contrary to Chairman Stokes' letter, the DDCI did
CA investigators could not interview CIA agen but
Hs expressed his strong objections to their doing so, noting that
we could not assist them in this respect.. It may be that .

 
 
    

 

inability to locate the agent in Mexico was as much a consideration

for his not being interviewed as concern for the Agency's
sensitivities,

6. Conclusions: The basic problem of providing direct
access to a Clandestine agent goes to the heart of CIA's
relationships with its agents. It involves the Agency's ability
to ensure them of its readiness to protect them from risks of

exposure. While the record of the HSCA, since its reorganization,

has been one of good security, its duration is limited and ;
continued discipline after the end of this year cannot be .
considered a sure thing. To expose this agent, however mino
a figure, is to risk later publicity of the Agency's willingness
to“make such an exposure.
 

[lod-toiae-to0gg] ae -

  

OLC 78-2112/1

>

gun 1978 1 per

15 LSCA- Covey
Me

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM : S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator HSCA Z
Office of Legislative Counsel

Letter from Chairman Stokes of HSCA on
Direct Access to Former Agent in Mexico

SUBJECT

oe

 

s®
ys oo .
~~» ‘1. Action Requested: That you approve the recommendation
_ at paragraph 8, supporting the decision of the DDCI to not
provide the HSCA with direct access to a former clandestine
agent in Mexico, and that you renew to Chairman Stokes the

DDCI's offer to obtain answers to written. HSCA questions
addressed to the man. :

. 2. Background: The letter from Mr. Stokes refers to
’ two agents; we are aware of only one at issue. Prior to the
; visit of the investigators to Mé ity, they were
garg advised at the Headquarters Building that CIA could not
7 agsist them in locating or contacting a former agent. "the
an had operated a photographic observation post covering the

Cuban diplomatic installations at the time of Lee Harvey Oswald's
visit there in 1963. This statement of ‘the Agency's position

was not protested at that time.
wht inyve i La ox i
tearned) that while the Station had been instructed to

“in. contacting former Agency employees there, and other
persons with whom the Agency had no direct contact, it had
been instructed to not assist in contacting the agent in
question. When Mr. Blakey learned of. this he asked for a
meeting with the DDCI.

 

f

          
   

4. At the meeting, the DDCI stated the responsibility
of the DCI and DDCI to protect intelligence sources and
methods, and the need to maintain a viable intelligence
collection organization. He expressed the view that making
agents available for direct questioning by congressional

44 4 7

[s-Zewoer cl wLalse.|

 

 
74-00000

7. The DDCI's act involved two considerations. It served
to protect an intelligence source, and at the same time provided
2 procedure whereby the information desired by the Committee
can be obtained. The matter should be presented to Chairman
Stokes in these terms, seeking his agreement to a procedure
based on trust of the personal commitment of Mr. Carlucci to
ensure the integrity of the procedure by which the answers
are obtained. -

8. Recommendation: - That you find the occasion to
accept Chairman Stokes’ invitation to visit him, and explain
to him the basic issue involved in direct access to a clandestine
agent, reassuring him of the Agency's readiness, under
procedures that you and the DDCI will vouch for, to obtain
answers to questions prepared by the HSCA. .

=, D Ri. bo \

ae
S. D. Breckinridge ‘a

0 Geb.

 

 

 

 

 

APPROVAL:
Director of Central Intelligence - Date
DISAPPROVAL:
Director of Central Intelligence Date
Distribution:
Orig - Adse
1 - DCI
1 - DDBCI
1 - ER
1 - OLC/Subj 3
1 - OLC/Chrono

OLC/SDB/ksn PRUTIAES
