 

iT / 8. ieN S ITTV

   

and resultant limited time available for Committee matters. .

plus other factors, it might be possible to handcarry

selected KCIA documents to the SSCI for reading by..

Mr. Kramer.’ This office objected on the grounds of | the-

sensitivity of the material, the ground rules established

for the Congressional (and DOJ) review of this material

by staffers and the problems which could be. caused. by:

exceptional treatment being afforded. to one Committee or

staffer. Mr. George Cary provided the compromise. solution

which is acceptable to all parties, to wit, that Mr. Garbler
invite Mr. Kramer to the Agency for lunch after which time

he would review the requested material in the Headquarters

building. (ESVidal) . .

4. MEETING OF SSCI STAFFER AND DDO: At Mr. Hal
Ford's request a luncheon meeting with Mr. William Wells
‘has: been scheduled. for 26 October. Mr. Ford is researching
‘material fer-a study on China reporting and wishes to
discuss this subject. with Mr. Wells due to his extensive
background and experience in East Asian affairs. ‘(ESVidal)

   

5. ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTEE: Counsel.G. Robert Blakey
a _ met with DO,. DDA/Security an representatives to
ee determine how he might frame his requirements to best meet.
‘our capabilities. ‘His efforts appear to be aimed at the
possible CIA role with the Mafia, and a double Mafia role
with Castro. Ue has information which implies that
* Trafficante was playing both sides. The IG, particularly
oa Scott Breckenridge, has responsibility for the Bill Harvey
association and the analysis of- the Schweiker report.
Blakey has agreed that.DO will concentrate initially on
the Bayo-Pawlcy affair and the ‘Soviet’ Defector" cover
! operation. Non identified informants have told him that
Col. "Rep" Robertson was involved. His queries.are
logical, manageable, and, if we can keep his requests to
specific people or events, we should be able to respond
to his requirements. (It would be, in our opinion, an —
excellent idea for the ADDO to mect informally with Blakey
over a luncheon. This would be useful in giving Blakey a
picture of JMWAVE, but also it would perhaps’ give Blakey
a perspective on his.own terms of reference. (JDWalker)
Y OF STATE, ET AL,

G6. LITIGATIO}
(JAMES EF. ANDERSON yo We prepared a reply
to Anderson and sufested he indicate to the Department
that he would accept the routine officer of Department of
Justice legal representation as a government official in
the Horman family suit.

 

 

HORMAN v_SECRETA

  
 
 

 

    
   

SEC RET /SENSITIVE

 
