 

‘[rod-10143-t0060 ee

* Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday ~ 17 December 1976

 

 

20. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Austin Smith, House Appropriations
Committee staff, called and said he wanted to alert us to the fact that he
would be traveling to West Germany, Austria and Switzerland and would be

leaving Monday evening. He said he has no plans for any contact with
ol thanked Smith for the alert.
2

Z1. (Confidential.- GLC) LIAISON Called Paul Daley, Department
of Juistice, and discusséd with him the Director's meeting with
Chairman Thomas Downing (D., Va. ) and Representatives Henry Gonzalez
(D., Texas) and Stewart McKinney (R., ‘Conn.), of the Ho
i on Assassinations ,and told him that the Directo
1idea t jude Representative Richardson Preyer
(D., N. Car.). Daley thought this was a good idea and we agreed to keep
each other informed on the happenings.

Later in the day, a call was made to Daley's office to inform him

that this meeting had been cancelled due to Committee meetings and had
not yet been rescheduled, :

 
  

  

| 22, (Confidential - GLC) BRIEFING Called Eddie Martin,
Administrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), and
told him of our interest in briefing either the Senator himself or a designee
on our LPSTIPEND program, It was agreed that Tom White and
o C/CCS, would come by on Tuesday afternoon at 2:30
to talk to him about this subject.

 

 

23. (Unclassified - GLC) LIAISON In the absence of Gretchen Koitz,

spoke with Kathy Cooper, in the office of Representative Les Aspin (B., Wis.),
and told her on a confidential basis that Dyas a
in fact an employee of the Agency, that the appropriate people in the 3 Oo

Agency were aware of the domestic problems and that as far as the Agency
was concerned this problem should be handled between d his
wife or their attorneys. When asked if we could suppl address,
I said I would have to check and would be back in touch on Monday.

 

24, (Secret - THW) BRIEFING I spoke with Fran Williams, in the
office of Senator Lawton Chiles (D., Fla. ), and scheduled an appointment
for 5 January 1°77 at 11:00 a.m. to brief the Senator on the(LPBTIPEND
program. ou

 

“INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

 
