74-0000

wpa ngithinings &

.
«
°
t
i
,
hed end aan e

1 Arrid. 1960 : i
Pege 2 : :

7 em

Florida and keep.clean, and had set wp an azpointment ith the IANS people in Dade

County on 2 April at 10 a.m. Subiect said ke would look Freddie in Kiazi up next

week, He said he thought CIA should look into Pernando Davalo Devalos,-a Mexican oo

Pilot who lived et Loreto ll, Mexico City, who according to a padre had agreed to ,
g to the U.S. on 2 April and pick up a plane. Later this plane would carry arns :

for Castro to Cuba, : :

4. The above, with the excerticn of the part about the Mexiean Pilot, was
sumarized for Mr. Reichhardt by phone at 4:30 p.m. :

? 5. Mr. Hennessey commented several times about sending a letter to Mr. Dulles
5 asking that a policy line be estabiisied that nore of cur people should discuss

Fs the details of immigration procedures and status with persons wio want to, or we

} ‘ant to come to the U.S. He rexarred that Stete should have soue kind ef overt

2 escapes program, so that ClA wouldn't get all this "garbage", .

i
e

:
4

6. JORDAR passed to Pennington via Langlin a copy of the mrole document
i . ,gigned by subject. : : : no

 

i : J
! a o3 ,
| :
| Distribution: I
i Orig. & 1 - Routed to: Mr. Gooez 3
oo, Mr. Reynolds -
| Mr. Seehafer - ¥
; 1 - WH/4/Subject 4
i - 1 » WH/4/Chrono 4
OP,
| (op |
} . :
H .

 

+ ce tena em RO MEAL SOE aetmes eT ene tcor fe tes A LAAMOVAE thors in mu wwitcjnemenan canons

 

SECRET

 

   
 

(04 1016710245]

oo

.

 

“ WRKORAKDIM POR THS PECOaD

_ Me. Henessey then brourht subject in and ‘ga’

 

1 Apri 1960 5. Of

ry

 

SUBJECT: Mareos DIAZ Lens

‘

1. It would appear that subject left the U.S. for Mexico some menths ‘ago

on the advice of a lawyer, that he went to Mexico, thereby violating his rarole, ~me
and then couldn't ret a visa to get back into the U.3, He.was a iittle upset . :

about this since he says he was dust trying to legalize his status in the us. G
After a couple of moichs, it was finally agreed that he would te allowed to re- : \
enter the U.S. on parole. It is very confusing -ho advised what, sho was pushing
_ Who, or why, but I&kkS seemed to think CIA was Pushing the hardest, but now has {
changed its mind. Se that as it may, they seem to have set up two interviews for

subject st the Eebassy, at the first of which he was told all the tad aspects .

of his situation, but--failed to tell him they had agreed to let him beck in the. ‘
U.S. on parole. So subject took off on his own with the aid of same Catholic

organizaticn, swem the river and made his way to Vashington where be contacted . . , :
an unstcted Congressicnai, probably Senate, committee, who passed him on to Iéxs, — —~—~#

apparently General Swirg hizself, The General was not pleased, because obviously :
he bad & rot potato. In short there were objections to every possitle solution.
Subject has a wife and two children legelly resident in Florida and one of the
children is an American eitizen, and owns a home there, so paroling the subject
anywhere else might cecse some bed publicity. . 1

2. In the absence of Mr. Seehafer, Mr. JORDAN of SH Division wes asked to
go over with Mr. Pemincton to a weeting with IANS, at 11:30 on 1 Acril, =:

» Henessey reviewed the case and wented to know what CIA wanted done with DIAZ,
and Mr. Pennington and another person said they had talked to Shef Zdwards and it
had been agreed that the new poliey on paroles would probably be the best thing
89 that micht keep bin out of our hair in Florica. Mr. Henessey reviewed a:lot
of the legal situation and said in practice it wouldn't work, and he wanted’an 4m

 

_ mediate decision as to whether CIA would say that it was in the mtional interest,

and in «writing, that CIA wanted subject held somewhere. After consultation with

Col. King, Mr. Reynol¢s and Kiss Tharpe, ORDAN said that it dicn't seem likely

that CLA would express in writing much of, any desires or wishes about subject.

ve him a stern talk about his obligations

and conduct under parole. The parole paper wae finally dram up, and at about FB es
4 p.m, subject was relessed, an : { Teg

    

 

3. Kr. JORDAN had a brief conversation with subject’ in a taxi roing down tow
as subject was in a hurry. He implied that -I&X3 had impressed on hin to get out sk
of town as cuickly as cossible, and said they had told him to g0 to his home in . vos

“SECRET

 
