00000

14

 

qaisiwont é

pravElvLes

Gs

 

   

 
14-00000

Ee iste

 
14-00000

   
     
   

ez
COUNTRY: Bee (yas
SUBJECT: Guatemalan Brille Activities: DRE NG hea cay
to ee te Mc)

 

PLACE ACQUIRED: Coste Rican, nee Soe  Vegmary Lee

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CUNTENT

High level Central American exile (Ff). Appraisal of Content: Documencary. x
os ;

On 1h January 1956(Co

  
 

ol) Franct scprCos:
seed to the

 

"Although I have wanted very much fo anewer your letter of ? Secemter 130%
‘empormeh, many things have /obstrus ted it and so time haw elipped ty agatses
wy wish, so that I have been able to write you only today, +

: ty
"In spite of the latest newstahson you gust be pvenees: bene] 2 Wig’ Unel vtet
happened is nothing but an incident, natural to the a. i really believe
tha the erasy-one with whom we were dealing wee trying ‘to negotiate and :
" participate in the winninge which there would be without moch ris om ble pars.),
If-the business failed for one reason or ancther, it does oot signify exgthing ~
more than a loss of time and some short-range hopes, but not ip an Lapertaat
menner.3y Far from that. Something positive 1s being accampliahed witais a
general line of forcing Marla Dolores to act in a manner which ie good fer ve.)
I hope to continue in the activity and I have exactly the patience of a epider
repairing its net én wait for a fly to fall into it. .

“With relation tg what you transcribed from Dona Moha,4sthat ta due to tbe fact

that the fat one#’who was formerly so close to ne, has tod Yroa ae end hee

dedicated himself to the task of defaming me because he was unable to get

something he wanted from me. Since he hag nothing elses to say, he saya that

ZT have very strange relations or that I belong to $he comrades.§-1s yoa wil) in

understand, thig is nothing moro than a disloval SAEs in thioh he io an

expert. Tho Srtend//who recently arrived fron El IndioteSyoan increase year -*

, information conc this. I have already written to the good friend rote ae
\ ‘ad morona'9/sao that he nay lain if there is gpper tant ty. Although” she Ya ~~

breaday really sufferings otrong Vodietten’ ty her actieeb! I do not think she we
Vv will recuperate. 4. 97,

   

 

"I have strengthened the connections with Roquel0, and other friends of the

    

 

LAD

ae a

 

kL SECRET | .

fe} Esy 51-58 PREVIOUS EDITIONS M. BE USED. ° —e =
Noy AY o. 00 Yd 73 Zlp

 

   

 
 

(rod-t0073-10004

ips

     

 

 

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET .> 3 a:
1 REPORT NO. (RB}906 © : _ —_

REPORT MADE BY: Stefan By. Lada ___ _NO. PAGES: 2

 

REPORT APPROVED GY: Sec¥ah 8, Lilienow __NO_ENCLOSURES: Sea be!
DATE OF REPORT: 1 February 1956 . REFERENCES:
DISTRIBUTION: ——

 

(6-71 47 Jeo att
10 NO. 1G NO.
KRYPTON: () YES CLNO

5 % tbe [o-26
sotacmoter 1 coy coc of etteatomt tol

 

 

 

2 copies te Vashingtea.
 

SECRET ~

22
CuBs906

! 'finee ai morens'. I think that, depending on how things appear, we should
estivate our requests and also gonteaplete now selutiong te the large problea.
I om writing today to the fa to maintain a centimity of action end to
ees if the prevailing circumstances can be taken adventege of end given a
purpose.

8] consider it extremely important that we maintain ourselves in closer
_ orrespendence than up to now, I understand that it is I who have failed to
' gnewer you, but I hepe that the explanation of the eventa eafficient,
Failing to do co would be to fail to show interest and would even result in
everpthing becoming cold and paralysed for who imows how long.

"The big carlZarrote ne very affectionately. I think thet the problems that _
they cause exch other are completely negative and that they cause us to deviate
froa the only road which should be followed,®

 

2. A reference to the planned revolt which was discovered and destroyed by
the Guatemalan Government in December 1955. x .

~¥
WEY Saye

fA

3. A code a for Qatemalan President Carl6& CASTILLO Armas.

4. Auguetdé'CHARNAUD MadDonald. x

5. (ta jor) Mareo antonio Franco Chacon, According to Humberto GOHZALEZ Juares,
there was’ a disagreement between FRANCO and PAZ Tejada, which resulted in
PRANCO’, CHARNAUD of PAZ' dealings with

pies. .
6, Te Coumniate. | MIERER HEITHAN N

 

7. Humb Juares.

 

8. El Salvador.

: “' 9, Mexico.

Ww, Goi} adortofbancra Montenegro.

| 11, Guetenala.

| 12. Juan Joo ALO. oo f

 

SEORED oy -23alyv
Gabeaen, Lebets Lratents de regrine 4 provticepas co 9 sa
Aahatriion - wry revrethoe Ae hag oF Ae tn pet. ‘ ded

i

Dor tet

a

Corel’ -

cadens pled van cht don fe

 
