74-00000

 

4. The Taspector General has also recommended that the Mexico
Branch of LA Division send a cable to the Mexico Station inquiring

0 as to what records may still be there relating to the period of

Oswald's visit to Mexico and afterwards. As of this date, we have

not located the original transcripts of the telephone intercepts of
“Oswald's 1953 telephone conversations in Mexico City. We are hoping

that the present intensive search will unearth then.

5... The-kinds of information currently being deleted by the Of-
fice of General Counsel from Oswald documents under Freedom of Infor-
mation are as follows: :

a. Information confirming the existence of an Agency
station in-a named city (country) abroad.

b. Cryptonyms and pseudonyms.
c. Identities of Agency staff employees.
d. Identities of agents (foreign intelligence sources).

. @, Revelations concerning the Agency's use of identi- !
fiable operational tactics, techniques or equipment.

ne =

a

 

 

   

 

 

h. In a number of instances the kind of information
cited above, if subject to public disclosure, would still
(thirteen years later) have a damaging effect on ULS.
foreign affairs, national security interests and/or
intelligence operations and classification is stil]
justifiable under Executive Order 11652.
 

 

104-4 0140-10984

aa

      

[scare 3P/

1 December 1976 LATA EY

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM: _ John H. Waller
Inspector General

 

SUBJECT: '  " Qswald Documents -- Action Taken

1. Attached herewith is an edited version of the memorandum

-on Kesster's article in the Washington Post forwarded to you on

27 November 1976.

2, In an effort to obtain all .the information that is avail-
able on this matter, the Office: of Security, at the behest of the
Inspector General, has initiated a formal security investigation
into the reported leaks. This is to be confined to an analysis of 7
Agency files and records and to present and former Agency employees,
including the translator formerly assigned to the Mexico City Sta-
tion, the typist at the Station at that time and Mr. David Phillips.
They state that it is virtually impossible to estimate the length of
time it will take to conduct these investigations. :

3. The Office of the General Counsel has been engaged since
April 1976 in perusing the Oswald 201 files, page by page, for
FOIA purposes. It is estimated that 75 percent of that material
containing Agency information will be sanitized, if needed, and
declassified by mid-December 1976. The information relating to
telephone taps in Mexico City, however,-fhas been deleted.” The
Oswald 201 files consist of 71 1/2 safe drawers of material.

Other files with possible relevance to the assassination of Presi-
dent Keanedy include the following: 12 safe drawers of Cuban Cpera-
tions material that is being reviewed in connection with the
Schweiker report; 2 1/2 safe drawers of material in the Office of
Security; varying amounts of related material in the Mexico City
Station files; soft files; Rocca files; CI/SIG files; OGC files

and DCI files. .

erwurt | BB SS

CL BY 055636
74-00000

 

 

j. Identities of Agency components and internal
Agency filing instructions.

j.. Information concerning activities or behavior
patterns of people not even incidentally involved in
the assassination whose personal privacy would be un-
justifiably invaded should the information be released.

k. ‘Identities of U.S. law enforcement officials.

6. I cannot guarantee that the OGC sterilizations, following
guidelines described in the attached memorandum, are generally as
minimal as you may want. As you can see, this process has been
going on since last April, thus it would be a major undertaking to
begin all over again. J will look further into this, but if you |
ultimately conclude that there should be a different standard for
FOIA releases on this subject than on others, we may have a very:
large job ahead of us. DDO, OGC and the FOIA office should be
heard from. : . .

7. With regard to the Sprague investigation, our intention
would be to let Sprague or his investigators have generally un-
fettered access to our relevant files here in this building. Those
documents he wishes to take out would be given a minimal steriliza-
tion. Those documents which he wishes to have taken out and declas-
sified would be sterilized for that purpose. 1 anticipate that the
problems wit] occur as we disagree over what may be declassified.
His instincts will be to want to put as much as possible in the
public domain. But,. we will have to face those bridges when we
come to them. Much will depend upon the kind of agreement OLC
will be able to negotiate in advance on security matters. ,

 

John H. Waller
Attachinent - a/s
ce: OGC watt

OLE w/att
Assistant to DDCT w/att
