14-00000

the Congress. It was understood in our discussion with

Mr. Berk that those portions of the manuscript that con-
tained sensitive operational information would still be
subject to the restrictions in our agreement on publica-
tion in any final report. As none of the material requested
bore a classification mark, although it did contain sensi-
tive information, I classified it and arrangements were
made to transmit it forthwith to the HSCA.

4. I did speak with John Horton, asking his recollec-
tion of the circumstances under which the Agency came into
possession of these papers. He said that after he became
COS, Mexico City, he made a point of maintaining contact
with Win Scott. There was some bitterness on the part of
Mr. Scott (the reason was not given) and Horton had hoped
to reduce that. .In any event, after Scott died Mrs. Scott
told Horton that there were a lot of Agency papers in
Scott's study. Horton went out to Mrs. Scott's home and

..with her went through the papers there. Among them were

Agency personnel files, operational files, and a variety of
documents, including a manuscript with various drafts of
the same material of a biography that Scott was writing.
This apparently was intended for Readers Digest, and there
was correspondence between Scott and John Barron. I asked
Horton if there was any expression of interest on the part
of Mrs. Scott in the manuscript of the book. .Horton replied
that she obviously disliked Barron and was anxious to get
rid of the papers. He quoted her as commenting that

Barron encouraged Scott to "tell all those stories and
lies." Horton was clear that there was no interest on the
part of Mrs. Scott and that she wants nothing done with the
manuscript.

5. While all the foregoing describes the question of
the handling of the Scott manuscript, there is a more basic
underlying. problem. The manuscript contains some dramatic
inaccuracies about Lee Harvey Oswald's visit.to Mexico City.

* Agency records, and the recollections of those involved

in the matter, are that there was no photography of Oswald
during his visit and that other than a telephone call on

1 October 1963 (which led to a routine report to Headquarters)
there was no real knowledge of his presence there until

after the assassination of President Kennedy. The Scott
manuscript has the Agency photographing Oswald coming and
going from both the Soviet Embassy and the Cuban Consulate

and being under surveillance during the time he was in

 
104-10065-10223

 

-FI53 3 |

6 October 1978

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : Manuscript of Former COS, Mexico City

1. Yesterday morning Mr. Charles Berk of the HSCA
Staff asked to have certain documents transmitted to
the CIA work area in the HSCA offices for use in the depo-
sitions of James Angleton which were being taken on 5 °
October 1978. This is the first time that we have received
such a request on such short notice, but the responsible
DDO elements were asked to assemble the documents and
review them for any special sensitivity prior to delivery
to the HSCA. This use is under a practice established in
April/May of this year whereby documents reviewed at
Headquarters could be used under CIA control for deposi-
tions.

2. The LA Division representative phoned to inquire
as to whether there was a property interest on the part
of the estate of Win Scott, former COS, Mexico City, which
may affect our delivery of that document to HSCA. I
obtained a first opinion from OGC that there might be
a property interest that would in some way be affected,
subject to the nature of the delivery of the material to
the Agency. I undertook to contact John Horton, a subse-
quent COS, Mexico City, now retired, for such info as he
may be able to give us. His home phone is (301) 373-2523.
I spoke with his wife who referred to me yet another number,

| (301) 373-2626.

3. While I was trying to locate Mr. Horton and

"establish contact with him we continued to have a spirited

exchange with Mr. Berk. Mr. Rininger of OGC joined us and .
the discussion continued. Essentially, our position was

that we might have a responsibility to protect a proprietary
interest on the part of the Estate, and that until we ;
ascertained the facts we did not feel that it was appropriate
for us to deliver the documents. Mr. Rininger contacted

the General Counsel who expressed the opinion that we did

not have a proper basis for withholding the documents from

E2, IMPDET
Cl by 13190

pbala
 

Mexico City. If HSCA gives credence to the Scott account it
would reinforce suspicions entertained in the HSCA staff
that CIA surpressed its record of Oswald. It has been
fairly clear that some of the investigators have believed
from the beginning that there was a tie between CIA and
Oswald which the Agency has endeavored to cover up. While
we know that such was not the case this could be used to
"corroborate"--as Mr. Berk stated to us--other findings

in their investigation.

6. I asked Horton if he would comment on Win Scott's

‘condition. during his retirement and prior to his death.

Horton said he would prefer not to have his comments made
public without further thought, but that he had the
impression that Scott had "gone to seed." He did not know
whether this was a result of drinking or other factors.

He said that Scott was like an old soldier, who told stories
of his “victories in battles that he never fought." —

7. Given the bias of the HSCA staff investigators

we can assume that this will be the source of some contro-
versy in connection with the HSCA final report.

je Ra

S. D. Breckinridge

    

~ NO

Distribution:
Orig. - OLC/Subject

1 -. OLC/Chrono
1 - SA/DDCI
1 = DDA
1.- DDO
1 - C/LA (Attn: Sturbitts/Hawkins)
1 - PCS/LOC (Mr. Shepanek) ~
1 - OGC (Mr. Rininger)

a Oper
Lu ai
