F-00000

 

SEORET Oo

address. We expect to ask the Chief of Station Mexico to
assist in locating these three and to assist in providing

a secure facility for them to be interviewed by the
Committee staff. As per our Memorandum of Understanding with
the Committee, all notes taken during these three interviews
should be retained by the Station, classified Secret and
pouched to OLC for disposition. The Committee will carry
with them a copy of your letter to Chairman Louis Stokes

authorizing current/former employees to talk to Committee
investigators.

4, SdGHaD

Lyle L. Miller

Attachment:
As Stated

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/att

1 - DDCI w/att

1 - ER w/att

1 - SA/DO/O w/att. to

4 2 OLC Subject w/att

1 - OLC Chron w/att
OLC:RSG: jms (15 May 78)

SECRET
one SECRET OLG RECORD copy

 

 

 

HSsc#.~
OLC 78-1745
16 MAY i978
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
‘ . FROM : Lyle L. Miller
Acting Legislative Counsel
SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations Staff

Visit to Mexico City, 30 May 1978

. —— _.

1. (U) Action Requested: None; for information only.

2.  (S) The House Select Committee on Assassinations staff
plans to visit Mexico City to interview individuals in connection
with their investigation into the death of President John F.
Kennedy. .

. 3.  (U) The Committee is sending four staff members to
Mexico City. They are:

eRe Gary Cornwell, Deputy Chief Counsel
a Harold Leap, Investigator

Dan Hardway, Researcher

Edwin Lopez, Researcher

4. (S) This team is scheduled to arrive in Mexico City
from Houston via TIA 983, on 30 May for a four to five day visit.
They expect to contact the Mexican Government Attorney General's
office to seek assistance in locating Mexican citizens for
interviews. They have asked the Agency to assist in locating
other individuals, and we have forwarded their request to the
Chief of Station, Mexico (see attached).

5. °(S) Of the individuals requested, is a forme
employee and(Ramon- oseph Alvarez Durant) formerly operated a DDO
photographic surveillance site. A third individual was recently

requested. He is Robert Zambernardi', a former TSD officer who
retired in 1965, listing American Embassy, Mexico City as forwarding

 

 
