14-00000 ses

  
 
 
 
   
 
   

escape plan ani
ue Greece cause
vrothers against

  
 
 

   
 

only to cone _to Sreece. “Secause, derstanding
was arrested and V. brothers were
addition, during his interrogati on, LAZARC
the Trudovaks, but menbers of the underzreund orgenizat
nerscens have been or wil be isorisoned for this.

forced to flee
trared not. ~
ion as well.

 

 

first days of their flight all of then were unanimous in
: ; for everything. Later Stevan ‘and the FOLTEKCY
bret, hers changed ‘their mind because they could not believe
their relative by marriage, woul? betray then ;
near hatred betiveen the PELTSNCYS ‘and the ?
remajnued neutral.

        
 
 
 

 

 

  

very favor
. ‘Lat er he Ba
retary for culture’ aid propaganda.”
aS.a sergeant, allegedly was oré

de: ifshe weuld accor

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

(22. CLAZANOV'S record.
“against the Co

      

 

  

nhs  oppastual ty to ds se
abeut. - fhe manner in vr:

  

   

   

jarlers even “hough they ceuld *
oy brothers combs hardl> *

    

 

 

 

  
    

 

 

steel gntan + ements

 
14-00000 se

 

     

 
 

“gi though’ LAZAROV. stated ‘that he. had- a » duide ai available, » he’ 2 actually did
‘/ |not have a guide at his disposal,..nor did he have any personal contact
‘.\with the "Gorjani". He may have reported to the underground group that
: ‘the Trudovak deserters were to arrive. in Plovdiv. | The underground orgen-.
ation: may. have decided thet the three young men would bea valuable
y addition : to: thei strength, - especially‘ ‘since’ they had been ‘compelled. to”
L -iMegally and would Fight for their lives. The underground organi-~
g “may not have ‘been sure that the Trudovaks would be Willing to join
re jani® instead _oF. going to- -Greecé zy and. they” may have. SkOve the not to
hh } the rudovaks: or :

 
 
       
 

    
    

    

  
  
  
 

   

  
    

 

     
 

 

 

‘guide’ to ‘Gre ce. “erailabie, bub a “guide :
hea to the Gorjani oy .

   
  

KOLOV ‘hid. the acacrten
He: gave then: rifles

 
   
 
 

IKOLOV's arrest, the
arly; by. Boris PELTEKO She

    
 
  

Wa rio pai le available’ to take then to
The Trudovaks refused the suggestion emphatically and insisted

they wanted bo. lee. to sreece.only.. LAZAROV left them with the ~
la c.. organize the escape : and that he. and

   
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

‘For Beveral ‘days the: ‘tredovaks ' were ‘left at Gola i i rogila without any ¢
contact and without food. They lost confidence in LAZARCV and decided .
to go to Markovo and Plovdiv to find Steven PELTsKOV's father ‘and uncle.
On-1y May they met Boris P5r

return immediately to Gola =
next day. _ The following dey

  
 

   
  
  
 

‘CV told them to .
& them some food the

jp a thr ofefiny vF |
fic Gola

  

     
   
 

  

_ Ons16 Nay Ivan NIK LOY ‘brought
. who was supposed to take the ?r
The Trudovaks, + not,
ing unable to. ‘remain alone

eAiliev guirov$ Mogila
cg the following night to the —~

P 2 to take. then. to Greece and
@,, agreed to join the Gerjani.
later learned that he
te,.and t} sndered

   
   

    
   
 
 
   
   

  
14-00000

   
       
   
     

ila;Flovdiv, andi ia arkovo looking for. help. -on
Oo May. “they’ were - “persuaded by Vasil LAZAROV to return to Gola Mogila to
wait for a guide. The same day LAZAROV was arrested, and on 22 May his
“wife was. arrested. The Trudovaks were told about the arrests by Feter ‘
ited. then at Gola Mogila on,.22 end 26 Maye Peter PSLTEKOV ~

    
  

 

   
   
  

enaine ab Gola Mogila antil- q June. gt June Boris ~
told then: that they ‘could, ‘hide. in: “NIXO ;

 

 
 
     
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 

deserters: 2*
-arrest of
interroga~

 
 

ror rising that

he iss and poor 2 “warn ther other 1 members

 

  
   

  

joined the Trudovaks at Gola Mogila and

_ decided to fleé to Greece themselves, since there was no’ suide to tare
told..the. Trudovaks thet they had.warned ‘Ange

bers: of the organization, but that’ they. had

i 7 “that they" could put the blame for everything

on the NIKGLOV brothers. The } cLOV brothers felt that. it was now. time ..
~ to ‘persuade Fetur’ ‘and Boris ¥, Who were also under suspk Folon ta
“goin the escape. oO : . :

 

 

 

    

       
  
 
  
  

Vesila and stated thet “Petuy
Therefore, Stev

  

le “cn 9 June » Bork s.

 
 

10 dune , Boris wen
Onlla.

   

of the - three Trudovaks,. the

TO.
brothers it ‘

 

Looe es annette il ai “
8. _ it ‘is presently visualized to place ‘the’ Peltekovs cand the Nikolovs in~
eparate safehouses.. If a sound operational plan is formated for :

each.group,..a- project outline’ Will be forwarded ; soo: st pearang, in
“that we can-hold one member. of ‘each’ group : . ;
ordex to be reasonably sure that the men who’ g

has

AE NE. x

‘ ed
Beek ubidbae:

 
104-10071-10354)

 

 

oe seca iconWaTON

jons | have ‘been’: Bulgarian"

‘ ye whether. any of - tthe: above
men are also Dilgerian I. s. ‘agents. Lo

4. "The: three’ ‘Peltekov bodies and’ ‘the ‘tro Nikolov bodies have: ‘expressed ; a
_ ©. willingness to’ undertake missions into Bulgaria. ‘Their PRQ!s have been ~
forwarded to headquarters for that reason. In order to properly evaluate
~ their operational potentials and to formlate operational plans, plus. °
preventing them from getting contaminated in the Lavrion Camp, itis .
_ requested that they be-put in safehouses where they. can be properly -
"handled; “bearing in mind the views presented’ “in the" preceding™ paragraphs
-In the neantine the bodies will be-individually evaluated and every —

«., @ffort will be made to pick up any ‘addi tional” | infomation”
* the > security factor. : Bon, :

ot MIE OU

 
S.. SUBJECT: Escape of Seven ‘Bulgarian Refugees *

 

© REFERENCE: PGA-A-5310; 5311; 53095 93h. ~

 

After studying ‘the Greek report, and the report of. our Kavalla sb:
(PGK-A=178) 5! it ‘was decided to-interrogate all “seven, of the: refugées ~~ 003.5
again individually. with the help of GASP_and GASP/8 to check ‘their stories,
analyze their accusations, and to determine: their operational possibilities
ee

 

  

 

 

NIKOLOV and Petur NIKO
roup in the Plovdiv are

ar PELTEKOV and -Boris.

Stevan PELTEKOV, sho

‘the anti-Communist
thé Trudovaks.

 

; alcik, where they became friendly with |

.gnother Trudovak, Stevan PELTEKOV. PELTEKOV wanted to escape to Greece. Gg
“PELTEKOV was’ sure that he could get the assistance of his father, Petur
PELTEKOV, a farmer in Branipole, and#asil LAZAROVS¢his brother-in-law,
who was a non-commissioned officer in the 9 Infantry Regiment in Plovdiv.
ce. RATKIN and DAMJANOV were unable -to organize a safe escape to Turkey,

y decided to join PELTEKOY in his flight to Greece. . .

since the winter of 1950 Stevan PELTEXOV had been urging his father to

elp- him to escape to Gréece. Petur PLLTSKOVMthen appre Ged Vasil LAZANGYV,

_a “non-commissioned. officer whose wite ria PAL? Bhe sister of --

Sve 1

 

   
   
 
  
  
  
  

 

i
a

    
 

 

      
     

 
 
   

 

4

   

are
rT UO.

    

 
 

~ organize his.escave to Greece. . Prox
. Stevan concerning the escane wes
“Martial Marie sent her brother a
“0 §,000 leva. By
"had. found a guide

  
 
    
   
  

OY and: his wit <fe,
: n swit, and the father. sent hin.

he end cf Asrii 2 LAZASCY inSorzed Stevan that he —

rho would ‘take 1 to-reece Af Stevan could come to

 

   
 

 

   
 
  

  
    

they tre evel aa. ont ont to Jere. and :

T Mes. ot

ome WE

 
 

   
    
 
 

. Because of & sone usion “in recogni

    

. : 4 . :
2 ee taccaneecararogtatasa inser dnataanctesamanentaa renee Pant SCAND | NY <mrceoigwmneter neem!

    

   

“HRTSTOZ

     
 
 
 

    
    

illage groups. received* their
n Plovdiv, Onefnsle CXAX rcv
P Vv organi zation ee .
Avo village group. : Contact betiveen ° AX
$s maintained by Angel CcARCT ana (#

Wes aiso a menber of the Plovdiv group in :
LAZAT: ‘CY was probably the leader’of ‘the: - 7
ne 9 Infantry Regiment, if thet uit had
“The organiza’ ion s $ ellegediy in contact with some 1

       
    
 
  
  

 

ers “fron the

      

ee
avo

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

  

 

 

 

@ Several Sroups of revels

. sorjani in the -

i resime forces
four rebels had .
in both cases
grewps. vallegedly

be called :

 
 

   
