«

DF rb. Dmg

CLASSIFICATION. DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO. .
ers . .

OFHA 4132

_ CSNSINUATION OF

 

DISPATCH

consented to go when she heard other Americans were going to be there, She
admitted that she was curious to meet Golub also. There are no Station or
HBFINCH traces on Identity Bo -

56 We agree with Headquarters that we do not have much to be gained
from the continuation of this contact. Our dossier is pretty well filled
with bio data on Golub as it is, and if he wishes to defect, which we doubt
considerably, he won't need her help. However, we feel that to have AE/5
completely pull a reversal and stop the contact would only arouse his
suspicions that she may be receiving instructions from some outside source, —
Since Golub now has stopped his original provocative tone toward AB/5 and
the Soviet interest in Costille has slowed down, at least for the present,
perhaps it would be better for AE/5 to continue seeing Golub, as long as he |
does the inviting, until she leaves Helsinki. (Her stipend runs out in

. danuary.) .Since school is in full swing her free time will be limited, and

 

she will have more of an excuse to slow down her contact with Golub,

weft .

; Costilie
9 October 1959

Distribution Sp
SR w/Idens usece

Paes WeSeCo

 

ASE PREVIOUS EDITION. hols iH PAGE NO

“REPLACES FORMS - . : . epoaup.
51.28, 51-288 AND 51-29 ‘ ae TT conninvep . Lo ep
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE. . Ds . os

 
1400000

tA STONE Scel

   
  

  

oy ie tr, was a SS
coe, “oo sg oe af):
“. mo - fh . . Y
rere a ee | (
CONTINUATION OF ~ “CLASSIFICATION Ear “SYMBOL AND NO- :
DISPATCH .  ° rr sic aut te
. OPHA. 7
MICROFA SS T
aged.
» : |.
_ oa AUG 2 { 1029 ;
IDEETITY As . falewl J. HOLSTI Le DOG. MICRO. m. |

| Heme adéresa: « 309-3 Stanford Village
: Stanford, Californian =
Ages 2h : ,

Married
Son of Rudolph Eolsti, pre-war Finnish
‘Foreign Minister |. AE
IDENTITY Br Sisko Marjatta Deu “Tsown as vargatta, .
; Sinks, :
DOB; 26/12/27 ~ ~ daaideiaon, kereMia,; cae

nn re . ee ae wo

 

 

PB;

USE PREVIOUS 5 EDITION, CLASSIFICATION ; ; A
REPLACES FO! . :
31-28, S1-28A AND 51-29 . Cj nn :
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.” CONTINUED

Pod
INFO

=ROM

ABJECT

‘EFERENCE(5)

FRM

aB7esy

140)

REDCAP
CostdLle-AEPAWNEE/5-Golab *Cont.

ACTION REQUIRED

OFiY 2937, 21 Septeaher 1959 TN,
phon & BCE be ; , ae

- DISPATCH |
0 Chief, a Wu
Chief, BE.5/C

“TRESIFICATION BIBPATEH SYMBOL AND NO.

 

Chief of Station, [| ’ _ 90 October 1959 _
— Batetny Ye, as ([ se es — see one)

phat om

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED.
SER. BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

rf) a) RO

 

le Reference dispatch has. gust been received, and we would Like to.

bring you up to date on the above relationship:

& Follew up tol _—(Bi2s During the evening of 4 » September,
Golub did not mention his-previous proposal to have Subject of DIR
42521 teach Soviet diplomats English. Subject on one occasion
stated that she was planning to teach English on Finnish TV and
that it looked as if she would have a busy season teaching, Golub
did not pick this up, and the subject was not returned to. The entire
evening was quite uneventful, and it was spent talking about music.
(The Subject of dIR 42521 will be dealt with by separate dispatch.)
Since that evening Golub has only phoned Costille once and this was
on a business matter. Two Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at
the time and were applying for Soviet visas thru Golub, They had pre-
viously been in the American Consulate inquiring about the possibility
of obtaining a Soviet visa in one or two days. Costille advised then
to go directly to Golub and make their request, which they did. Golub.
phoned Costille to state that he would give them their visas as soon
as they made advance Intourist reservations. When they did this, Golub
inmediately gave then the visas. Golub!s and Costille's paths crossed
once again on 15 September during a Consular Corps limch. This was a
fairly large gathering and Golub and Costille did not have much opportunity
to talk, However, Costille gave Golub two tickets to the forthcoming
Leonard Bernstein concert in Helsinki, as Golub had previously mentioned
to Costille how much he wanted to go. Golub appeared to be quite grate-
fal for the tickets, and then stated he wanted Costille and Subject of
DIR 42521 to come back to his apartment soon to hear some more good
music. Mr. Johanan Bein of the Israeli was standing near by, and Golub
extended the invitation to him and wife also. No date was set. However,
from 4 September to the present, Golub has not phoned Costille for lunch,
which is a new record for him, as heretofore he has called at least once
aweek, He has either been too busy, his interest.is waning as far as
Costille is concerned, or he is, as Headquarters suggests, Planning to
turn Costille over to someone elses ;

be Costille contact with. Viktor Ft, If Golub is. planniig to
turn Costille over to someone else, Zegal seems to be the most obvious, —
Zegal has had every opportunity to date to start the contact, but he
has not picked up the ball yet.. As we have mentioned previously, ‘
Costille met Zegal first at the latter's informal cocktail party. How

-ever, the invitation came through Golub. Zegal was friendly to Costille

but not any more so than to the others at the party. At the second

‘meeting, a Soviet Embassy sponsored informal reception for the American

Embassy, Zegal was again polite to Costille but showed no undue interest
in him. On 7 September, both Zegal and Costille happened to be at the -
same sauna party given by a member of the Netherlands’ Embassy. During
this party the conversation turned to music, and Zegal mentioned that

he had a large American record collection but that records in Finland were
too expensive to buy. He asked Costille where he ordered his records and
if Costille would mind ordering some for him. Costille said he would be’
glad to, Zegal happened te be at a small luncheon on 10 September given

. again by a member of the Netherland's Embassy, At this time Costille _
loaned Zegal two record catalogues from which he could make his | seloctidis, .

Gostille has heard nothing to date from Zegal on this,

CLASSIFICATION
USE PREVIOUS EDITION LASHIFICAO!

REPLACES FORMS .
32-26 51-284 AND 51-29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

—9

i
je CONTINUED

 

1 X¢_ [MARKED FOR INDEXING .
pic 97 1939 4 __|_NO INDEXING REQUIRED

 

 
 

104-10051-10194 ;

 

wane oRE: J any ; “C, . .
"ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ion

NOTE: tn the absence of comments or indication of action

 

: taken, this cover sheet will. be destroyed when the
R 1D/ . document is filed. (

RIJAN

   
       
  
 

¢
MICROFILMED ;
AUG 2 7 1959 yy: ,
iy
DOC. MICRO. S ‘£ OR CWP

3 sj

a

9-13: Ido not feel that Costilletd —
explanation of meeting arrangements with
A/5 makes them any more secure than wd
had guessed! His apartment, his car, jin -
the quiet of the evening! Para 7 of def
still obtains - RIS could have become
aware of their meetings & the clandestine
nature of the meetings, Also, I questjion
the security of dropping her off at tHe: —
bus stop nearest her apartment, If thd RIS
has seen any of these contacts, the vary
meeting arrangements would serve to cqn= ~
firm A/5 as an agent of Costille - no jno:
boy-girl relationship, if a social ond,
would go to these lengths unless thera

was a spouse in the background; it would —
therefore have to be Clandestine,

a tence He op “9 Lic

a) sg. tap : ©

rr ie lp ,

Ae bol
aco den

ec Ls Sf cb. vA eee

a
2 /e

Se 3)

N ed (|< DS
eee ees:

pu!

R

313.

 

FLAIR

ZL og.

   
     

      
 
       
  
 

 

  
    

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS , SEQBERONO DETACHER 0% ON

iy ton
= ara < ant c tos
20. RID/FI 1400 load ff a
sa : ra G
OY. id a t|
| NPENCLOSURE FILENUMBER :
yO INDEX : i 3
‘ DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER é
Ps ‘OFHA=04132 Gd.
3

FORM
fou 610,
Se eee

 

FORM

, CONTINUATION OF

‘ ¢. Golub's possible departure from Helsinki: At the Consular .

Corps luncheon on.15 September, Golub once again mentioned to Costille .

_ that he would like to be assigned to New York City and even hinted

that he had been offered the job as Consul at the Soviet Consulate in
New York City. It is known that Golub is studying English in Helsinki
from a qualified RussLan-English language teacher. He also mentioned
‘that if assigned to the United States, he would be given intensive
language training in Moscow. Costille also asked him if his wife had
returned from Moscow as yet. He waved his hand as if in disgust and
stated that it was a pity but she wes never coming back, This - oo
*“estrangement" from his wife has never quite rung true to either Costille
or to AE/S. Shé has never liked the climate in Finland and has been
rather sickly ever since she has.been here. It may be that she is
merely waiting for Golub's return to Moscow rather than move back to _
Helsinki, Golub has also mentioned to AE/5 the possibility of his going
to New York and has hinted at his being in Moscow by December, .

dad. Golub edntaste with AE/5: Golub has been seeing AE/5 about once
a week for thelr language lesson. AE/5 is learning Russian, and Golub ~
English. (Golub also has a professional English teacher.) During these
sessions Golub has not once returned to his” conversations of 23 July in
which he derided Americans or has he made any implications that AE/5
might be reporting on her contacts with him. AE/5 stated that since this
date the pressure seems to be off and that Golub has never raised his
suspicions concerning her knowledge of Costille or the fact that the
American Embassy had become aware of Golub's contact with AE/5. Golub's
conduct with AE/5 has still been above reproach and not one romantic
overture has been made. Although they still discuss politics, art and
music, Golub xeaimyy has made an effort to keep away from extremely con--
troversial topics and has refrained from making his usual derogatory
comments about capitaliem and the U.S. When the relationship first.

_ began, he did not hesitate to bring up these subjects, About three weeks
ago, Golub invited AE/5; Iden A and his wife, who are Fulbrighters here
and good friends of AE/5 from Stanford University; AE/5's roommate
(Iden B), Zegal and Nikolay Makeyev"” for a social evening in Golub's..
apartment, seat tox Spaetane has wanted to meet Iden A, who is the
son of a famous goverrment official now living in the States,

Iden A is here doing research on his father's effect on politics.
The evening was spent in polite conversation, light and dancing.
See as . . ’ mote, aut . aoe Ag é :

2 As far as contact between Costille and AB/5 is concerned, it has been
“kept at a minimum since her REDSKIN trip and she reported that she had met
-Golub. There are no regularly scheduled meetings, the date and time of the
‘next meeting being arranged at each previous meeting. ‘Throughout. the sumer,
‘meetings have been held about one in every three or four weeks. They have |
been arranged on different nights of the week. On these meetings AE/5 comes
alone to Costille's apartment after 2000 hours. She takes a bus from the
University, which is in the central part of Helsinki, to Costille's, which. -

_ds.in a northern suburb. AE/5 also lives in the same suburb about 2 kilometers _
from Costille. She, therefore, would take the same bus to Costille’s as .

she would to her own apartment but would get off two stops later, After the
‘meetings, which usually last until about 2400 hours, Costille drives her to
aAt no time has any unusual activity been noted outside of Costillets apartment
sor near AEB/5's. For emergency contact, AE/5 has been instructed to phone
Costille at his apartment from a public phone booth mentioning that she has
missed him, She never once has identified herself on the phone. After the |
Mphone call, she has proceeded to a pre-designated spot in the same suburban

-parea where Costille meets her with his car, They then proceed to the outskirts —
of town. She is dropped off in the same suburban area. The meetings have

‘usually lasted approximately 30 minutes. No surveillance has aver been de~ -
“tected, This has only been done three or four times. The same procedure is
sased when Costille wants to see AE/5 before the next scheduled meeting. ~
Costille has only phoned AE/5 twice, and this was in late May during the
"HEDSKIN debriefings. AE/5 has been with Costille overtly only three times.

 

| USE-PREVIGUS EDITION RLRSSIFICATION .
57 ee, “REPLACES FORMS :
ae 38a 51-28, 51-28A AND 51-29 [ocx] contmueo
(40) WHICH ARE OBSOLETE. : .

mini a Rea SYMBOL AND NO. ;

 

.the bus stop nearest her apartment. Costille has never been to her apartment. -
14-00000

a

 

 

CEH Wee

- CONTINUATION OF

. _ :
1 ERASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO. .

 

. DISPATCH

, since AE/5 arrived in Finland last January. The first occasion was in.

March at AEPAWNER/3's apartment. This was the first time Costille met
AE/5. AE/3's roommate (another Fulbrighter), and two Finnish students .
were there (Subject of OFHA 3811, Para 2, line 2; and Subject of OFHA
3914). The next time was in April when Costille took AB/5 out to dinner — .
and recruited her for the REDSKIN trip. The third time was at a large
American Embassy reception in September for exchange students. Costille
talked with AE/5 for about 5 minutes there. ;

3. This brings us to the issue of Golub's motives and intentions re~.
garding AE/5. By Golub's actions on 23 July, reported in OFHA 4032, it :
seemed that he was on the way to a recruitment pitch. However, since that
date he has eased off the derogatory comments about Americans completely
and seems to be satisfied in his meetings with AE/5 in discussing art, music

_and non-controversial political topics. If he had any suspicions about AE/5

before 23 July, he has not raised them since in his conversations with her. .
Golub must realize by this time that an out-and-out cold recruitment pitch to ©
AE/5 would be futile. Even though Liberal minded, AE/5 in their discussions

has been critical of the Soviet system and has strenuously defended capitalism,

If he is attempting to get her involved in a romantic relationship whereby
he could exercise some emotional control, he has moved very slowly. As we
have stressed before, he has not made one romantic overture to her. If he

.did, he would be most definitely rebuffed. We do not want to turn this

into a "Dear Abby" letter, but feel that Golub may be suffering from a
father complex. Golub and his wife have been unable to have children, and
he has mentioned that he would desperately like to. Whenever he talks about
this he becomes noticeably distressed. Golub appears to be attracted to
‘younger people. This was the case with his former assistant in the Soviet
Consulate here, Mikhail Lyubimov, whe was a young, intelligent, cultured
Soviet. Golub frequently refers to Lyubimov mentioning how much he liked
him, what good friends they were, and how much he misses him, Golub's
attraction to AB/5 started when Lyubimov left. So given what we know about
Golub's personality, we do not think it too strange that he "likes her for

‘her mind.® We admit that if Golub had the opportunity he would certainly

attempt a recruitment or some other form of embarrassment; but we also believe
that his feelings are such toward AE/5 that he would comtinue seeing AE/5
long after his operational interest had died down. We have not forgotten |
the fact that Golub is a shrewd intelligence operator. From the outset of
the AE/5-Golub contact, we instructed her to use extreme caution, that Golub
was more than a Consul, and that behind this friendly and gregarious nature,
there was a calculating, diabolical individual, and that she should at all
costs avoid letting herself be put in the position where she would be sus=
ceptible to any form of blackmail, She was told that above all she should

‘do nothing to indicate to Golub any contact with any American official.

Because of this we have refrained from giving AE/5 any "requirements" to
elicit. from Golub believing that personality data would just come out
naturally. We have never given AE/5 any canned responses to political
questions that Golub might raise feeling that she was clever and well-read
enough te answer on her own. We did not want to give Golub any impression
that she was being briefed on what to say and to ask. a .

4. In answer to para 3 of reference, Costille has never been to AE/5's ,

apartment and has never met her roommate, Identity B. Identity B was an

- exchange student in the United States during the 1957-58 academic year.

 

 

 

Although AE/5 did not know the roommate before, the arrangements for sharing -

the apartment were made before AE/5 came to Helsinki, AE/5 in the fali of
1958 met another Finnish exchange student at Stanford who was a friend of
Identity B and put AE/5 in touch with Identity B. Identity B did not mest

. ..Golub until the evening described in para 1.4, above. AE/5 stated that
Iden B is very anti-Russian as she was born in what is now Soviet Karelia

and was forced to leave her home during the war. She has told AE/5 that if
she was ever seen out in the company of a Soviet she would automatically lose
many of her Finnish friends. She has often cautioned AE/5 about being seen |

out in the company of a Soviet-diplomat too much. Identity B was extremely

reluctant to attend the social function in Golub's apartment, but finally

"USE PREVIOUS EDITION. CLASSIFICATION PAGENO
A REPLACES FORMS . . . r
51-28, 5.284 AND-SI-29 : [224] contmueo 3 .
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE. .

 

oe pe ignite
