 

fod-inoe2t00ds]

 

 

ae a SECRET :

14 June 1976

SUBJECT: LORENZ, Ilona Marita i

1. ‘AS the result of an article on Subject in , the ©
13 June 1976 New York Daily News, LA/COG was asked to
do a file check to determine whether Subject was, ever
connected with the Agency. -According to a LA/COG Desk
‘check, IP trace, CI/OA and Security Office check. LORENZ
_enployed b he

 

 

 

 

2. There are several references, sourced to the FBY
and DCD, LORENZ is a self-admitted former girl friend of
Fidel CASTRO. She claims that she met Fidel while on a trip
to Cuba with her father, Captain of the North German Lloyd Line
in February 1959, became infatuated with Fidel_and styed

in Cuba, she served as Fidel's mistress and GeeRcame to
the U.S. with Fiddl's party in April 1959, She learned

at that time = that she was pregnant by him. She returned
to Havana a short time k thereafter and had a miscarriage.
She claims: that she was SeaweA drugged h aken to a hospital
: : Se ae eee 23 meee where an
abortion was performed. / Because ‘of his reaction to the preganc
she turned against him. LORENZ returned to 4% es
from Cuba on 9 December 1959. Because of the bad abortion
in. September 1959. ‘
operation performed on LORENZ in Cuba, LORENZ was operated on
on 20 January 1960 at the Roasevelt Hospital in New York City
bya Dr. Hanniar.- .

 
 
 
   

 

 

3. It is said that LORENZ, appeared on the’ TODAY's show
14 June 1976, . She reportedly made the statement that she

- was associated with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placed

some posion pills: in he face cream for the purpose of
assassinating Fidel. A 24 Apr 1961 FBI document states that
on 8 January 1961 LORENZ, STURGIS, Alex RORKE Ay
were to meet tlt evening and attempt a unity meeting of anti-
Castro Cubans. . The unity meeting was. sponsored by Luis CONTE

“Aguero, one of the leading anti-Castro Cubans. I have

uncovered nothing aemtmwesto date concerning an assassintation
atéempt.

Chris Hopkins

sn en ee a eens an adionemnnenenmnnh niente bebe casts ienh nhc tamth Stent Sn at 3
