14-00000

 

November. | Headquarters noted't ‘the-fatent to use him as a utility
agent in order to "(a) organize and conduct a surveillance team; (b)

= intercept packages; (c) blow up bridges; and (d) execute other assign

oa ments requiring positive : action. His utilization i is not to be restricted. .

7 stations

 

to Leopolaville. Indeed, he may be subject t to call by other African - an

although it is expected for him to be resident i in 2 Leopoldville.' a

' WIROGUE arrived in Leopoldville on 2 December 1960. ‘His case

‘officer gave | him the following instructions: (a) to build cover « possibly :

: —_ by o opening a hop; a and (b) to try to spot persons for : a oe oo a

: surveillance team, intelligence assets and paramilitary assets.

 

Shortly after arrival, WIROGUE ran into © Q5WIN, who later told the.

‘station that WIROGUE looked like an intelligence agent. In attempting :

to recruit QIWIN for his "execution squad", WIROGUE exceeded his ;

instructions to: avoid making approaches without checking with

“with the

 

purpose

 

oe Leopoldville Station. - a
old . In Tavary 1961, at the request ‘of f the Leopoldvitle Station,

“WIROGUE } was given permission to take Alying lessons. By March,

 

~ he had obtained the position of | | .

 

 

 

; in that capacity he was used by CIA for the -
of gathering intelligence onl t _ By

 

 

April, the were trying to use him. to obtain arms and ~

  
14-00000

 

instructors in Western Europe. Keb: nd was then a teaching the = 4

 

He departed Leopoldvitle in daly because

 

 

 

he had run ‘into difficulty obtaining a residence permit “and his CIA a

“| re contract was terminated i in September 1961.
| at.

 

Africa Division believes that WIROGUE was , recruited for his .

Congo assignment hecaiuse of his third country national ‘background

in order to establish a support mechanism in : Leopolavilte. At the

 

: time the Congo was in chaos, we had few assets there, and the sa

 

likelihood existed that the political situation would degenerate :

 

” quickly. _The Station possibly also wanted to ) have a latent paramilitary
capability. An October 1964 assessment of WIROGUE indicates Little
7 - ' flap potential with him since he knew little about the Agency. He spent’ .

most of his time trying to | develop contacts and was not directly involved

in any particular operation. :

 

 

E03 Call

 
14-00000

 

 

 

be the best solution. A \ suggested alternative was to put him i in Se

 

a
Bis
the latter on 14 December with an S bce? of 300 dollars per month ta.

participate in an intelligence net and to be a member of an execution

squad. " When ar WIN. said that he was : not interested, WIROGUE

; added that there would be bonuses for special jobs. ‘The cable. . i

mentioned i in paragraph 6 that the Station \ was concerned with the free,

wheeling of WIROGUE, his lack of security, his inability to handle. moe

finances, and his unwillingness to follow instructions. - The Station :

"was willing to keep him on probation, but believed his recall | would

 

: Stanleyville to try to obtain immediate intelligence on that a area.

In an attempt to reconstruct events, ‘Africa Division was 5 apprised

‘ of the above and was asked to search its records in an attempt to

clarify what WIROGUE was up to. in ‘the Congo and his reference to an :
“execution squad. " “The research did not clarify the matter to any

great extent, although some assumptions can be made on the basis of |

: circumstantial evidence. On 19 September 1960, two members of _

Africa Division z met with WIROGUE to discuss an operational assign-

ment i in that division. In connection with the assignment, he was ‘to
be trained in demolitions, small arms, and medical immunization.
In October 1960, a cable to Leopoldville stated that he was being

prepared for a deep cover assignment to arrive Leopoldville late

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

was in no way involved in'the assassination of Lumumba. However, ;

‘in the course of our research, two aspects of the Lumumba story :

surfaced that indicate Agency involvement i ina plot. In the one”

” ; instance, 0 our 1967 « source mentioned the name of an Agency officer |
os who | was > designated ; as the case officer for an assassination plot a
against Luraumba, but reported that he had declined the sesiganast . . : :
‘That officer was the originator of a 119 December 1960 cable to
: ‘Leopoldville in which he authorized the return of ar WIN to |

. Luxembourg on 21 December to await further instructions and the oe
: payment of 1000 dollars to him for his December salary by the
Luxembourg Station. The last paragraph of the cable advises .

; Leopoldville that headquarters is working out the details of a Congo

assignment for QUWIN. The same officer was the originator of a

231 1 January 1961 memorandum dealing \ with payments to QUWIN.

In the ‘second instance, al? December 1960 cable from

.

‘Leopoldville deals with the activities of a newly recruited agent,
- WIROGUE, whose mission was to try to spot persons for at ee
: surveillance team, intelligence assets (with emphasis on. Orientale

Province), and paramilitary a assets. The second paragraph of the

cable mentions that he resided in the same hotel as QJWIN (although

neither knew of the others CIA connection) and that. he approached

ES Ca

 

 
14-00000

: 7 yoo ' : : i var eenn : J : :

eo morg

’ mentions the termination of QJ WIN's contéact, refers to the fact
that his only assignment since e January 1962 has been to , establish

' €over.

 

Agency officers who were handling as win in Europe were almost
certainly unaware of the fact that he was being considered . as an asset ;
by the senior Agency official who had begun to become active in ee .
February 1962 in the assassination plot against ¢ Castro. An undated
(EYES ONLY) ‘memorandum from the Deputy Director. (Plans) refers

o

. i woh toa l9 9 February 1962 memorandum and authorizes the retention of. a

 

the services of QUWIN i in activities which we have identified . as
coincidential with the assassination plot against Castro. The date of :
a. - ; . the reference memorandum coincides with the time that the s senior
Agency official became actively involved i in, this enterprise. A
“memorandum of 27 June 1963 dealing with the further handling of .
Qr WIN N mentions that this enterprise has been terminated, except . '

*

for one ¢ precautionary "life line."

In summary, it is almost certain that as WIN had nothing at all
to do with the assassination of Lumumba, even though the contents and
. language of available files are often oan and imprecise. if he had -
been, it is highly unlikely that the number of Agency officers handling , Q

and contemplating assignments for him would have been so large. The

BBE

  
14-00000 :
oes aan 2 Fey

@ ser @  .
ahek) a ; eT 7 °

BRS

headquarters division for whom he worked was concerned, inter

 

alia, with obtaining foreign cipher and cade books, and it is reasonable

i to conclude that ar WIN's primary and exclusive responsibility was to

' find individuals who could do this kind of job. One of the officers who:
first met Qawan in a Luxembourg was ona trip o overseas | to find | safe-
crackers a: and document-suppliers. ‘The 1 December. 1960 cable

mentions Keeping him clean and using him in Dakar and pos cibly Milan,.

which was specifically mentioned i in the B October dispatch as offering -

 

good possibilities for: F finding safecrackers and document- ~suppliers. .
: Further, good tradecraft practices would dictate that the last thing
that would keep ari individual clean would be involvement inan .
: assassination plot. Although the Chief of FI/ D coincidentally was
; later assigned responsibility for the Castro operation, there is ,
no evidence to suggest that he was privy to assassination plots prior
- to his briefing in late 1961. . .
ol. | While QTWIN was considered for use in the "executive action
capability", there is no information available to suggest that he had
ever been approached in this regard, much less used in any of the -

' planning.

TA ett
a Lene

- iscrzt a _

i pn TO agg
14-00000

\ : coe Dk ° !
| ; é
@ Ft
; bet

 

death of Lumumba at the hands “ét Congolese. However, there is no

5,
5 : .

+
i
f
5

evidence to ‘suggest that QUJWIN was in any way involved in Lumumba's
demise. The case officer who was the source of the information of
the contemplated use of QUWIN in 2 such an activity understood that he
was never used in this manner. The following information 1 reviews
existing knowledge beyond that summarized above. - . ks
A 13 October 1960 dispatch trong[_pranenatt notes te to
7 headquarters from one of the two officers who subsequently met

QIWIN in Luxembourg: The notes list tthe names of police officials —

 

and criminal elements and allude to the possibilities of finding éafe- -
crackers and document-suppliers. :
QIWIN was “met in Luxembourg on 19 and 20 October 1960 by
; two Agency officers and was asked if he would undertake a trip to
Africa, presumably Dakar. (The appropriate dispatch, dated
2 November 1960, lists only Luxembourg and[ as addressees.
He was not given the true objective of his mission because of its

€

extreme sensitivity and pending a final decision to use him. “Instead,
he was told that the Soviets were operating in “Africa among nationality
groups, specifically Corsicans, and he was being a asked to spot,
assess, and recommend some dependable, quick-witted | persons for

our use. He agreed to go on the trip. On 2 November QJWIN was

met in Frankfurt by an Agency officer, and he accepted an offer to

 
 

04-10050-10223 cao. _

 

According to statements by a senior CIA officer in 1967, made
to , the Inspector General, the Agency was instructed to develop a.
. capability to conduct assassinations. Termed an "executive action - _——
- capability, " such a 2 project was initiated i in 1961, apparently assuming
. an existing cryptonym, ZRRIFLE. At the request of the | case officer
(the same officer providing this information in 1967), a clandestine . : *

asset i in Europe, arwin, was to be used i in the Project. - . The fase uy

 

officer understood that QoWIN- had been considered in 1 1960 for use -
in the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, but that the proposed | .
operation was never carried out because the designated CIA case .
: officer declined the assignment. .
The case ¢ officer 3 in charge of ZRRIFLE also was involved in an 7

operation to assassinate Fidel Castro, running from early 1962 to.

 

mid-1963. " However, QIWIN was not ‘used in this effort, reliance
being placed instead on a Guban exile leader. QJWIN was never

briefed on the Castro operation, according to the officer handling .

 

' ZRRIFLE and the Castro operation. .
Records do show that QTWIN was dispatched to the Congo in

1960, being there in November and December 1960, prior to the

re OT

BU ae |

ste oe

stent G ATT Tb OMe. #
“ 5861)

 

‘oe
14-00000

 

 

 

 

oo tna en pe Ro et eg cee ee ee

 

 

proceed to Leopoldville. (P. ésurnably | he idea for sending him

there originated at headquarters because someone must have |

considered him qualified to handle a Potential operation there. ) The
precise mission was not conveyed to QT WIN, and he was only informed
that the mission might involve a large element of personal risk. We ,

do not know and at present are , unable to determine what the assignment ,

“was. Subsequent cable traffic discusses s arrangements for QIWIN to go. ,

| first to Leopoldvitle and then t to Dakar. a

: On 8 December Qr WIN: was in Leopoldville where he cultivated

, S a close ‘personal relationship with a Yugoslav Air Force pilot. ‘There
follow. suggestions in cable traffic on what approach QswIN should use :
‘to recruit him. However, a special channel FI/D cable of 14 December a
. rates this target : as marginal when considered against the framework of .

; plans for QUWIN and instructs hirn to desist if action has not already .
been taken, The first paragraph of this cable states that we “would o a

: like restrict QIWIN to activity directly pertinent his mission :

«

- Leopoldville or forthcoming mission Dakar and pos sibly elsewhere ; - ;
-(e. 8. » Milan) for FI/D purposes. He our only asset, of this type « and

' we wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than: that

originally planned for him." This cable would tend to rule out

involvement in an assassination plot, since it is highly unlikely that

iawn

RS CIP

errnr,
Wa i

 
14-00000

rie Smpaante®

 

 

; thereafter.

his. return to Luxembourg on 21 December and instructs Luxembourg. :
“ ‘to pay him 1000 dollars s for December salary, which is the final

payment for hia services on this operation. Also, headquarters v was:

v3 PY

Needs
an individual picked for such a sensitive and dangerous assignment

“would be burdened with other chores or - assignments immediately

Lumumba was 5 still alive, albeit under arrest, as of the middle

 

of January 1961, and it seems clear that QTWIN had lett the Congo.

 

in December 1960. A 19 December cable to Leopoldville authorizes :

 

  

cd

working out the details of a Congo assignment. An ll January 1961

. headquarters memorandum, which refers to. T/ANS ¢ dated 21 December :

1960, states that the referenced amounts were given to as WIN iby the -

Chief of Station, Luxembourg. This ouggests, that QTWIN was in

Luxembourg on or before 21 December.

Subsequently, it appears that bas WIN operated in Europe trying

to spot and assess individuals whom the Agency could use in safe- or

‘cracking operations, in line with one of the principal missions of -

- FI/D. A 24 May 1962 cable to Luxembourg mentions that ; a 2 decision

was made to keep him i in Europe and that the Leopoldville 4 assignment a
had been cancelled. A transfer to Baden-Baden is deemed a good | a

choice. Also, a 24 April 1964 disptach from Luxembourg, which _

a errrsy

  

 

 
