 

   

Vebswary 29, ines

Honorable Rerve Boyer

Secretary of State For Fleece
Pert eu Prince
Betet, Ww. x.

Beer Dr. Boyer:

  
 
     
     
  

  

.. I eertetnly de want to closely iuvestigate the
forest project and the other items George da Kohbrenschildt has
Giscuaced with ue, My presdar agenda requires Gripe Ce dmariile,
- Beaver, Sale Lake and Midlend, bus Comerde the aiddle of Kerca

. 8 should be able ce fly t= dated. thee the delay wilk

fot be irritating, X will tahe the Uherty ef wiring you wee | '
_ Meow tbe prosice arrival dees. : _. :

 

5 lanl cot Ces ve deat ted

OV Chcccway
ref. ; dv

    

 
(te tote-t0245

 

 

. appeared om the roll enig the better mogative Cas priated..

oO . wf
1 7 . s7

eB Mewar , . mo
Catef of Station, (Purt-ae-Prisce)

. z

Culef of Station,(Pusama / :

Caiet, cuit (6-7 F _~
AQUATIC

Transmittal of , Protograpnic Prints and Negatives
Refer sce: (wrvi] 1536, 1 March 1968

i
L

Trananitted as an attachnent are 32 ‘photographie prints and
the negatives obtained from the roll of Plus-I fila forwarded by
Reference for processing ead priatiag. 40 iaatructed is tefer=
ate, two additional copies ef esch print wore asde and Gistri-
buted to the Hoadquarters Divisicas,. Where duplicate negatives

 

CD Se 26/3/65 ccs

_MAIL BITRIES , OFL ETF 1s

 

 

 
 

 

Vebevazy 23, 1963

  
 
 
      
    
 
   
 
    
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
     

Bomoresle Herve Royer
Gectotary of State For Finance
Bert ev Priace
Geiss. ¥, 8.

Beer Sv. Boyes:

fe Jo sestty. wmfertuaate that eommateat ions
were fouled wp oinee.f know aeay ta ¢he growp-with as could
Reve groatly beeefites from an oa-the- ground viele wich post
geod offices. Yet ig te hard te tmegine the ain-uwp le comple
sation aad treaspertation aalia on Grand Behens Vasc: voak,

 

i
i

RN re eI at ad

 

2 eartataly de want te elesely tavestigate the
forest prejest and the other. items George 46 Mobrenechiidg hes
Glecveced vith as. Ky preoseat agenda waquires trips te dmarilla,.
Beaver, Gait Lake and Kidland, but towards the aldédle of Merch. .
& eheuld be able te fly to Haigh. Twweting that the delay wilh
Got be irritating, Z will take the iiberty ef wiring you vem —
ieee ‘tha  preciee arrival dete.

 

oo tose oorge de Wohrenschilde ae
ecu de En fiben gon Mh ph Une ‘
tone Uuvt. stad ee gum dnprih Urowid
AY juike a Lak, conc on be fe G yeu.

Oftourre 0S band ee tat ah jt pee tee A Ke « ¥ fofher ”
5 OU C&tec wae ’

    
      
    
  

    
    

 

      
