14-00000

 

4. This menorandum has not been completely researched.
It is suggested, however, that you forward it with your memorandum
of 11 June 1969 to yur office so that this matter may be placed in
perspective.

5. I would mpreciate notification when you forward your
memorandum to your Headquarters as I would like to furnish a
copy simultaneously along with my analysis of the situation. I
appreciate your pranptmess in bringing the VARONA/GOVEA
contact to my attention.

 

Anthony R. PONCHAY
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

Attachment: a/s

 

 
 

 

z. If you read the foregoing analysis in the light of Mr.
VARONA's file, I bzlieve you will clearly ascertain that we
put little, if any, cafidence in any statements made by Mr.
VARONA. We are deeply troubled, however, by the fact that
Mr. VARONA has wed one Mr. Charles GOVEAas-his means”

   
 

who in turn used his good offices to establish contact With you.
We consider it highly important to determine whether Mr>
has any current comection with Cuban intelligence and to that
end, we have urgeniy requested from the Bureau any and all
current information bearing on the matter. Although Mr.
VARONA cannot provide Cuban intelligence through Mr. GOVEA
anything really curzent, he could albeit unwittingly provide a
tremendous amount of information dealing with Agency modus
operandi which we vould not like them to have. This becomes

quite important in view of the fact that we have several indications
of aggressive DGI/TN operations to gain information on the AMOT

as well as our AMCZAFT operations.

3. Your pacagraph 15 clearly reveals the fact that
VARONA has an ax: to grind and he has chosen this way of
reingratiating hims<!f with the Agency by passing information
on "Frank" the man who handled him for the longest period of
time. For tactical political reasons you may deem it wise to
"receive his report:* under no circumstances, however, would |
we want this to be ured as a bridge to become involved in again

with a man in whose integrity or objectivity we have no confidence
whatsoever. To rexerate re the previous paragraph, we are most

concerned about GCTEA and if we can develop any current infor-
mation on Mr. GOVEA's contacts with Cuban intelligence, we
believe it will be ne:ussary to get some word to Mr. Guest to
disengage himself f::m contact with this person.

 

 
74-00000

 

; h. Ee paragraph 12 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%

. &) "Frank" has no knowledge of the material
referred to. A further check will be made to determine
if this information was passed to "Pepe" who wo uld have
made it avaZable to the Station.

(:) This material apparently was passed to
"Pepe" and subsequently analyzed by the Station. DSE
personalities were carded. Mr. VARONA's statement
that “F rank" did not properly utilize the information
again appears to be another vituperative attempt to oo niet enee
strike at "F sank" who he apparently blames for his
downfall wit: the Agency.

«), (4), (e), (£). . No Comment.

‘@, (h), (i), Gj). This is probably completely
fabricated material. Nevertheless because of its rather
sensational aature, the Station would be interested in
receiving trie copies of this material so that it can be
analyzed in te light of specific, positive collection,
evidentiary material at hand. It would also be appreci-
ated if your zffice could glean the source .or sources of
this alleged sensational material.

Re: (k), (1), (m).

  
  
  

- . ax ege -
(Gi-Henri ‘Rls a Haitian exile living
most of hi<¢me-in ©: . There is no information
that Mr. VIX 1 ommunist.

(m) As in (g), (h), (i), (j) above, the Station
would like tuimow the source of the alleged photograph
which Mr, VARONA refers to. This again appears to
be sheer fatrication.

 
14-00000

   
 

 

Mr. VARON:. is not informed on other Station
operations, 10 it is understandable that in his
attempt to bing attention to himself that he
would focus nm those things he is aware of.

Mr. VARON3's opinion of Mr. SANGENIS and
his handling of money is his own opinion. The
Station's viev is that it is lamentable that Mr.
VARONA, over the years, did not show the same
amount of prrsonal dedication to getting the job
done that Mz. SANGENIS has shown. Again, it
appears to b: one more vituperative allegation
which has litle basis, based on information so far

provided by Mr. VARONA. ve ee token

d. He paragraph 7 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%:

ARONA was in fact the messenger sent ©
by "Frank''co the person who was going to conduct
the exfiltration of "Frank" and several.co-workers
in June 1961. He did not, as he suggests, have a
prime or ozanizing role in this exfiltration which

Eis not known. It

as wadt\truein "Frank's" case.

e. le paragraph 8 of your memorandum of
11 June 196: j :

% is-true_thar Mx) VARONA is a good
friend of thi Vasco de C family. He got to
know this fatiily when VAsto LB[TAO was Ambassador
to Cuba. Tic Ambassador gave
BATISTA pried, and this form d basis of their‘
friendship. From time to time over the years, the.

VA

cote

 

te,
74-0000

' the old "Autntico" Pa

 

Agency fount it useful to use this friendship as a
means of controlling Mr. VARONA when he became
unmanageable.

f. Fe paragraphs 9 and 10 of your memorandum
of 11 June 1169:

    
   
 

effect that he is being
at all succesful in re-esjfblishing and/or revitalizing
. Given his unfavorable
reputation ir the Cuban communtty, it is unlikely that
he would enjpy any success in this endeavor.

g. Te paragraph 11 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%:

)
; “4 should be noted: that Mr. Oso [ONDA VILA,-.—"
presently litng in Miami, is “the brothe “ot a prominent

Communist in Cuba today and should be viewed in that
light. "Frark's'' recollection of the situation involving
servants ant the ASPRU home, which he took over with
the servants. does not jive with Mr. VARONA's report.
There were ~vo white and two black servants in the
house. -The tight of the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban
Internal Service sent agents to the ASPRU home to pick
up "Frank." One colored and one white servant were at

_ home at thatcime and they told the DSE agents that

"Frank" war "a gay blade" and would not be home until
early the nezr morning. The DSE left the residence
leaving behin a note for Frank" to report to their
headquarter: the following morning. In this context,

it should be 1vted that "Frank's" cover in Cuba during
the period it. question was that of a professional gambler;
a cover whic: served him well during most of his service
there.

Gap
5 wee

 

 

 

nl a sh ne oe oS nt ee ee me
14-0000

AE eee ee

 

a. ia paragraph 4 of your memorandum of
11 June 196::

Mr. VARONA was recruited sometime ~
during 1957 jy Mr. ee we assigned to
the Agency': Station ZT Vania. € was subsequently
handled by M>. {| another Agency Officer

presently st:cioned in Kingston, Jamaica. Later, still
in Cuba, he was handled by Mr. Frank Belsito now serving

in Panama 21d Emilio Rodriguez (deceased.) Mr. Rodriguez _ _

turned Mr. TARONA over to "Frank" in November 1960.
In August 1911, Mr. VARONA took asylum in the Brazilian
Embassy indavana. He was later granted "salvo conducto"
to Rio de Jaeiro. In the interim “Frank" was exfiltrated
from Cuba trthe U.S. When Mr. VARONA arrived in the
Florida arez during March 1962, he was met by his Havana
Case Officer "F rank" who continued to handle him until
August 1962, at which time he was turned over to the Greek
Case Officezhe refers to. The Greek Case Officer handled
him for app:oximately three years. Along about 1965, the
Greek Case Dfficer turned Mr. VARONA over to Mr. Al

“McQuade aki Fred who handled Mr. VARONA until May

1968, at whith time he was ‘turned over to "Pepe" intro-
duced by "Frank" who served as an intermediary because
of his previmis connection with Mr. VARONA. Pepe's :
specific job:-vas to give Mr. VARONA one last chance to
prove that h: could be productive before being terminated.
Pepe, an emerienced agent handler's problems with Mr.
VARONA were precisely like those of his predecessors.
He found Mr, VARONA to be untruthful, bellicose and
generally umatisfactory for any form of continued employ-
ment by WE Miami. Therefore, after due consideration
of Mr. VARCNA's potential to cause trouble because of
his long exp:rience with the Agency, the decision was _
taken to terninate him recognizing full well there might
be security :epercussions,.

se

 

 
 

[toons .
we Se 6 § BR02%

+ eee, re : Rte

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1999

18 June 1969

ets

 

MEMORANDUM FO: Special Agent in Charge
Miami Field Office

SUBJECT : Field Officé Memorandu} June 1969

 
   

Wilfredo “Pancho

en

1. Ihave nov read with care the referencéd memorandum. —
which deals specifially with charges by a fSrmer agent Wilfredo
"Pancho" VARONA against his handler known as "Frank" or
Enrique. As you wil have perceived from reading VARONA's
file by the time you ead this memorandum, Mr. VARONA is not
well regarded by ovr Station and/or the people who have handled
him to date. This mnstitutes the reason for his termination. I
would also like youco examine the field traces on Mr. Charles
GOVEA, an attachnent to this memorandum. These traces
indicate that Mr. GOVEA has had in the past, and possibly still
may have, some contact with Castro intelligence organizations.
We are presently wciting for a more complete read-out on Mr.
GOVEA from the Nev York Office of the FBI. Understandably,
therefore, you can ice we look somewhat askance at the GOVEA/
VERONA information. Although we recognize the integrity of
the unwitting intermediary Mr. Winston Guest of Palm Beach,
Florida, we also re:ognize the implications for "Frank" in Mr.
GOVEA's knowleds: of our affairs given his possible Castro
intelligence connecion. Axiomatically, we will be interested in
knowing, at some pont in the near future, whether "Frank's"
true identity is knovn by either VARONA or GOVEA.

 

 

2. Ihave ditcussed this memorandum in detail with
"Frank", Our view: on VARONA's allegations are presented
below, keyed to you: basic memorandum.

 

vere LE
74-0000

 

In th: light of the foregoing, it is worrisome ©
to find out tlat Mr. VARONA is aware that "Frank"
recently recsived transfer orders from the Organization.
We need maze information on this. We suspect that the
origin of this statement is the fact that Mr. VARONA
recently met'"F rank" on the street in Mexico City by
complete haypenstance. During that meeting "Frank"
alluded to th: fact that he was no longer working in
Miami (althmgh in fact he was) to confuse Mr. VARONA
as to his tr. whereabouts. It should be noted that Mr..
VARONA re@rs to "Frank" as "Frank" because at one
point during the time that he was being handled by
"Frank", oth:rwise known as Enrique, he instructed.
Mr. VARON:. to introduce him to the Vasco de CUNHA
family as "Frank" Stevens, otherwise he had known |
UF rank!" undir the name, Enrique. The basis for Mr.
VARONA saxing that he believed "Frank" mishandled
the WOFIRM program in many ways appears to be
vituperationnplus frustration. The vituperation being
a basic ingredient in his opportunistic character.

 

b. Ez paragraph 5 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%.

That "Frank" had certain responsibilities
re Juanita Cistro is very true. "Frank" was funda-
mentally resjonsible for the defection of Juanita Castro
although Mr. VARONA furnished the lead. The "Frank't/'
Juanita Casto relationship is now quasi-legendary. He
did not fumbe the very difficult handling of this contro-
versial perym. Mr. VARONA would have been in no
position to laow the load placed upon "Frank" by the
Agency in trring to gain operational mileage from Miss
Castro. Revhe information that 'F rank" was in posses-
sion of infornation which could have resulted in the
assassinatio of Fidel Castro, the following comment .
must be mats: This refers to the Plan RAPHAEL which

 
14-00000

-Re Mr. VAFONA's charge that five of his family went to

 

- Ae. /

involved Mr. VARONA's brother. "Frank" was not
the Case Off::er on this operation, although he had
originally recruited Mr. VARONA's brother in Cuba
prior to his exfiltration. The Case Officer for the
RAPHAEL overation, if one considers that there was
a case officer, would have been Stephen P. Mangello.

and four of his friends "went to the wall" in

jail in Cuba
nk," "Frank" has

Cuba because of the shortcomings of "F ra:
the following specifically to say in rebuttal:

'WAZONA was continuously admonished from
the time of‘Hs arrival in the U.S. in March 1962 to
be discreet roncerning his connection as well as his
relatives’ cmmnection with the Agency. It was common
knowledge ithe exile community that VARONA and
his family vere dedicating their lives to the overthrow
of Castro. No member of VARONA's family was
molested by Castro until the exfiltration of VARONA's |
brother in 264. VARONA's brother left a wife and
two childre:: behind and later within a period of three
months initnted divorce proceedings. VARONA's
brother anc. probably his wife, and possibly other
members o: the family knew of Plan RAPHAEL. It
would be di¥icult, if well nigh impossible, to ascertain
who could live been the cause of the arrest of members
of VARON¢'s family, since besides the family members,
other agems who were also involved in this Plan were
arrested atapproximately the same time. Re the four
friends ''wio went to the wall," this appears to be sheer
embellishnent on the part of Mr. VARONA."

 

c. Re paragraph 6 of your memorandum of
11 June 19:4:

at the Cuban
in Miami

  
 
 
 

Re Mr., VARONA's statement
who holds che highest position for the Agenc
andwho-wirks directly for "Frank" is oné_ Joaquin ,

-SANGENI “his again is embellishment. Mr. ARONA /
As obviowly known for some years that Mr. SANGENIS

heads the #MOT Organization. This is one,gf the
WH/Mianii Station's several projects. ponsinately

Pe

 

    
 

somone teteg maenecernim perenne

rere eee ant mee my
