74-00000

Sp

 
   

 

 

mention in view of his | with Itkin;
County District Attorney's office has knowledge
3effiliation with CIA and we are unable to control their
use of that information; and (c) the,assumption that Herbert Itkin
has been told by the FBI tha is affiliated with CIA,

I further “would that at the present time it appears unlikely

 

that would be directly involved in Herbert Itkin's trial, ©
but we.-cduld not be absolutely certain that such problems would
not arise in the future.

 

g>
4, With regard to Mr. j future assignments, I
_ explained that this was a decision which rested with the DDP,
and particularly the European Division, but from a legal standpoint
we were not going to object to Mf? assignment to [led
I did advise ve that it was our opinion that he wou é
better off not to return to New York City as conceivably the
District Attorney's office might want to question him further on
his relationship with Herbert Itkin, and we did not think that this
would be too helpful in trying to maintatn cover, Mr,
Heinonen noted that ne LDGLOBE office had considered sending
M2, to New York to receive some covert training, but in
view of our concern about the New York area, they would make 03
plans for another location for this training. I asked Mr.
to be sure and advise us if he received any communicati Tréectly
from Herbert Itkin or any of his associates in the Conestoga, Ltd.
venture, and Mrit___—isaid that he would comply but doubted
that anyone would attempt to contact him,
02

5. Mr. Heinonen indicated that (@-BGLOBE would be in touch
with the European Division during the week of 14 April to assess
the risk factors involved in| assignment and seek a
suitable cover. ou

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

JOHN K, GREANE
stant General Counsel

zw

cco: CCSALPGLOBE
C/CI/REA
C/E/F
D/Security

OGC:IKG:bt 2

YOrig. - subj file
1 - TPKIN subj file arya. -:.
1 -JKG signer SEG td
1 - Chrono

 

  
 

‘og 10407-10065

Oe SECRET

RETURN TO CIA 69-070
Background Use Only OGC 69 ?

Do Not Reproduce. 15 April 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

SUBJECT: d

 

oO 3s

1, Mr. Heinonen called to advise that Mr. would
be available for a meeting on 11 April and asked if I would come
to the (LBGLOBE downtown office to attend. In preparation for
the méeting I contacted Mr. Rocca to determine what recent
developments had taken place in New York with regard to Herbert
Itkin's accepting the compromise solution reached between Messrs.
Hogan and Morgenthau,

 

 

 

2. Mr. Rocca advised that the State of New York had with-
drawn from the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York its motion to remand Herbert Itkin to the State of New
York for trial. Secondly, Mr. Rocca stated that the Family Court
of Westchester County had denied Herbert Itkin's request for
rehearing the custody award of Mrs. Itkin's two sons. Thirdly,
Herbert Itkin had prepared a draft letter to George Washington
University, School of Diplomacy (sic), in which Itkin purported
to offer a manuscript describing his work with the CIA for
publication by the University. Itkin did stipulate that the University
would have to obtain the approval of the DCI before publication of
the book. It is puzzling to fathom Itkints real motivation in
making this offer,

3, I met with Mr. on 11 April at the FDGLOBE
office in Washington and explained to him the developments which
had taken place with regard to Herbert Itkin's legal entanglements
in New York City. I pointed out to me that we assessed
his risk of exposure based upon three possibilities: {a) the
unpublished feature article prepared by of the

 

 

 

which relates to Herbert Itkin's career’ could

 

aaa

24

 
