 

 

o2-

unfortunately escape me at this time. Notes made at the time of this
convergation nave either been misiaid or temporarily lost, and therefore
@re not available for referral at this writing. After several minutes of discussion
back and forth with reference to the report itself, attempts to locate emact passage,
ete, the writer finally arrived at a point where the request for access to the
“xecording" mentioned by NSA officials could be relayed to the Fanama Desk
Officer, Reaction received amounted to a re-interpolation of what Para 3,k, of
Referenced Report actually said, was intended to say, etc., how the information
was probably obtained, and finally a virtual refutation of the statement that the
“speech was recorded" as reported in Cissemination, I was thereupon advised
gratuitously that “if a recording actually was made, undoubtedly this was under-
taken by the Cuban avthorities thernselves as tne hosts for the meeting..... and
therefore would be in Havana in the hands of the Castro authorities, and notin
the posseasion of CLA either in the field or at Headquarters." A few more rounds

wh mine dn gn mete ened rnd the welene Menbtee atta dd ot Peck -fiteae
any ccc

that above statement was mere assumption on her part, obviously w was not cased

on any factual information she had first-hand or had developed through research
into other papers available on this conference, wherefore CLA could not relay

such a reply to NSA, Addifienalargument ensued, and the Panama Desk officer
recollected that ‘someone eise recently mentioned tapes brought up either from
Cuba or Panama which someone had been looking for, out in a different connection...”
She was thereupon requested by the writer to check into such separate inquiry,

aud advise the writer of the results, Another telephone call within about 24 hours
resulted in agreemeni by Fanamms Repuris Seciion either to initiate necessary iieid
pouch themselves, or else ts take. up with the appropriate Operations Desk Officer
the initiation of a formal inquiry to Panama Station, by pouch, the entire matter

of existence of a tape or record-platter of the speech reported in reference,
availability of such 'xecording" ator to the Station or the Agent who had prought
in the original report, and request that if available, such recording be forwarded
to Headquarters soonest, I was under the impression ai the time that the party
with whom I had talked had accepted this request as official, and that I had received
a firm commitment that appropriate correspondence would be initiated to caver
this point, allowing for ‘crash priorities" which might develop unexpectedly, 80
that.a reply could be expected by late October or early November. I reiterated
insistance by this office that without regard to any knowledge possessed by Has.
Desk Officers of the circumstances of the reported LAYG meeting, at least a
pro-forma written query to the field was required on basis of the NSA request

that they be allewed to listed to the reported "recording", in order that a factual
answer could be given their inquiry and the disseminated report be clarified in
event the wording ueed therein had led to erroneous conclusions on part of the
recipient. :

 

3. At the time of these discussiona the writer gained the impresetos thas
a relatively lrge amount of confusion reigned in the Cuban and ‘Ranamanian Desks
of WH Division, based upon crash-priorities resulting from the U.N, meeting .
fa New York, Mr. Castro's antics in New York, absence of various responsible

~

 
   

 

104-10176-10016

 

26 October 196Cy

MEMORANDUM

TO: Mz. William K, Harvey
Chief, Fl/Liviaioa D.

 

From: Anita Potocki

Subject: NSA Telephone Request circa 26 September 1960 to Office of Security,
reiayed to Fl/Livieion L, regarding boasible Access to the Recordings
Alleged to Have Been iiade of the Speech at the Latin American Youth
Ccoagresa on 4 august 1966 in iavana by Bernon Ferguson MITCHELL.

Reference; CS-3/450,465, disseminated on 21 September 1960. , H

i, Referenced renort, based on HZ P-3852 dated 29 August i760, was
disseminated on 21 September 1966 as Ci-3/456, 465 to various U.S. Agencies, -
inclading NSA. Separately clien ic. Hanna of the Panama Station prepared
a dispatch forwarded as HZ7?A~-10437 under date of 14 September 1960, referencing
above report and calling attention to the fact that MITCHZLL had been reported
present at the LAYG Mee’ing accordisg to disseminated report. HZPA-10437
was routed to various WH Livision Leaks, none of which broasht the contents
to the aention of appropriate \.H Civision officials who snight have been expected
to have had surce knowledze of or responsinility for follow-up of such information,
and latter dispatch, therefore did not reach this office until 7 Uctober 1960,
through the good offices of i I oh He. bir, as the
individaal who noted on the cov: 7H Livision, when phone,

_ bad advised that no attempt had been wade to follow-up this lead or to determine

who in the Agency might have responsibility for reporting such information directly

to NSA or other U.S, Government agencies,

: 2. Cn or about 28 September 1960, x17. Je De Noell of O/S/SRS received
@ telephone call from NSA officials, calling his attention to the existence of a
report CS-3/450, 465 of 2 september 1960, which indicated that CLA hud either
had an odeerver or had contact with someone who had attenc.d the LAYG, which
individual had reported per referance that Jernog i’. MITCHiLL had made @
speech im Havana on 4 August 1960 which speech “had been recorded", Ergo,

- NSA was most andous to ootain either the originals or a copy of the “tapes” oot

or "record" mootioned in the report, im order that persons familiar with MITCHELL -

and his manner of speaking might listen to same to check the identification

made in referenced report. hit. Noell relayed thie request to the writer immediaie-

ly upon receipt, whereupon within the space of two days or so, the writer in tura

checked with the Cifice of Chief, WH/ Uperations, hire J. -sterliae, who in turm

referred the writer to the Panamanian Desk, / {ter a euccession of referrals,

the writer ended up talking with a young laay in ranama Reports Section, whose name
: : ;

{ bf
 

o3-

desk officers on other business, wherefore there might be some delay in getting
the actual pouch written and out to the ueld, Mention also was made of a large
amount of material recentiy sent back to Headquarters from the field in conection
with the LAYG and from the Panama Station, which would also have to be checxed

prior to preparation of the outgoing dispatch, ctc. However, the writer was assured .

that we would be kept advised of the progress made and specifically would be
imenediately alerted, when field reply on tils point was received.

4. Above information was relayed to sir. Noell upon completion uf these
arrangements, aad he in tarn advised NSA that we were checking with our field
representatives in an effort to locate the actual recordings, tape or platter as the
case might be, to which they desired access.

5. As of this morning writer was advised by Mr. Noell that MSA had
_ again inqeired of him last week, and again this week the status of our efforts to
locate the requested recording of the MITCHELL speech on 4 Aagust 1960, as they
atill desired to Usten to the voice to verify the identification of the speaker ae
actually the former NSA employee, Sermon Ff. MITCHELL, as reported in reference.
The writer theregpon retraced the ertire performance, as relatedin paras 2 and 3,
only to discover anew that no-one had the faintest inkling of what I was talking about,
nor coald anyone recollect that any reqcvest had been made by this office or the
writer with reference to CS-3/450, 465, para. 3,k. After initially calling Mr.
ESTERLINE's secretary on this problem, the writer was referred by her
to Mr. Phillips, who apparently is head of the Fanama Desk. After a “jolly”
chat well into the subject, hir. Phillips, “ho hac listened politely for a brief time,
asked Whether the writer reaiized thai ne knew nothing about the whole affair, and
waa primarily responsible for PP activities. He suggested J call a Mr.
fon ext, 2031, who supg ested that ] might have been talking at time
or original query with Mise Barbara cdmuni «, Reports Officer, or ‘the other girl
who works in that same office’. However, Mr. ot down to specifies right
away. After obtaining the necessary copies of both the disseminated report and the
HSPA-10437 dispatch referencing same, he agreed that there was some urgency in
getting a definitive report from the field as to whether or not a “recording" had
been made of the speech itself, who made it, whe held it, and whether or sot the
original or a copy thereof could be obtained on a priority basis by Havana Station
and forwarded to Headquarters for the purposes requested by NSA. He thereupon
suggested that he could send out a routine cable to the field, text of which he
virtoally read to me over the phone, and asked whether in the interests af expediting
g game I could coordinate ft for FI/D by phone in draft-form, which I did,
He was advised that the indicater "ZRGRACE" should be inctuded in the heading,
and we shall therefore receive a copy of the cable when at ia finally sent out. we ~
will «laa, obviously be included oa the reply or replies fran both Havana and
Panama City, when available, I gained the impression that Mr. 8
revsonably impressed by the urgency of getting a straight-forward answer after
much annecessary delay, and the spot we wege now in vis-a-vis NSA's original
request oi over a month ago. 1am certain that we shall not get any run-around from

  

ve . t

 

em
74-00000

 

& Mr. Noell was advised by phone this morning of the iatest developments.
Bir. Noell advised that since the most recent query on this matter came jrom
Jerry Srastow, Deputy to i Grooms, he was of the bpi-uon that this wae merely
a fobbw-up of some loose-ends concerning which son.eone on General Carroll's
staff may have made inquiry to Brastow, in conneciion with the Carroll Investiga-
thom of this case. General Carroll's staif, apparently, keep digging up such Little
unficished pieces af business, and reminding va.ious people at NSA, probably
ona “tickler system basis" that such and such a lead has not been checked out in
its entirety, anc that status of such requests should be checked. Mix. Noell advised
that in light of his original report to Nia that CLA was working om attemfts to iccate
the “recordings” either in the field or at headquarters, he would make no further

FOP ty anos muss cee ewgey SS Sit. Totmirg's ibis tf eetecte dace ta veceived

‘from the field,

7. So far the situation seeme to be under control once again, It is most
anfertunate that sach unnecessary delay in complying with the original request
was caused by a variety of factors which in distilled fashion can be termed
‘Jack of cooperation by WH/Penama Cesk officers with whom the original
reqaest was discussed. itis also unfortuaate that from the outset, namely
receipt of HZi--3652, this entire matter has deen given obviously reatine
treatment by people who either iack ihe initiaiive to check ca wis might have
responsibility within C1 for followeup of this type of case, or who were not
sufficiently “ag courant" with the overt news to recognize the name Bernon
F. Mitchell. [am not certain that you wish to take this matter any further,
waiess there are reasons of which | am unaware, Biy own impression is that
perhaps the best thing would be to let the whole matter drop for the moment,
at least until sach time as we can again raise it, say by next Tuesday or 80,
im event we do not have a reply to Mr. able by that date.

wee

Criginal & ce: Mz. Harvey for ZRGRACE File
ce: 201-282337 (Mitchell ZC1)
. £ee: O/S, SRS, Mr. J D. Noell

 
