 

 

 

i
5. This Agency vould uy vectate receiving any intormetion ae

there gy be fs yas Bivessi’s Tiles concerning FAYID, as well as an
tnvertigntion of bis activities vetle in the United Suates.

       
   

CELT oIG/O2K1 3% ;

ee: Department.of State
Immigration & Havuralisation Service

       
   

 
 

 

SECRET 13 oom re

  
 

 

(01s ;

‘ an . ae .

>] : Director
Yederas Incecs of lerestigntian >
attention: ire Se d+ Fepice i

yA : Deputy Director for Plans — . : i

SUBJECT: bhchagend ASD—e) muni FAYED ao
Mohamed adel Monies FAD (Regiish Opelling)

  
        
      
      
    
        
 
     
          
     
    
    
     
    
  

Le A yullalle source hos reported that. @ Mamad FA'TD,-

Whe yesldes at the Waldorf Asturia ‘ote: (reas 35), Bev Yars. City,
fe negotiating am aia deci vith Freaident Frenoeis UNALIEB of
Haiti. FA'ID, We represents tia usncrar Commerce anf Havigetion

of Exnmit, anintaing Contact with Gourgs 46 sept gad LLP,
who is propenly idaatical with the vewrge 46 Mawstn tL uno wns
genticaed tn the wasrer t.i-teshen aegurt, Pa'ly ta ie post wes
davolved vith Hafemi, THU ILLO, the late lamiaican heppbic dictatoy,
and has besa reported to have connections with Fidel CANTO af Gules

: . tbject ta believed tobe identical vith Muhanad.
Sedoal Mumia VAYID, veo wus bore ia Alexandria, Bayt, oa. 2} Jamary
: 1929 and te described as follove: Found fase, dark curly. hale,
7 Gingtaghe covering upper tip, veare Glated giaseces GB.

. - Jo ‘The Agency's representative ta Port-au-Prince, atts, |
—_ on 26 Hovesber 196% that Huhumsad Abdoal PAYDD Left. -
Portq-aucPringe on or. sbaut Q-Novewar luth-en route: to. Burape and.
the Hoar Inst. le vas corrying Naitian.biplameis Passport Hee 1067.
_ & former United Arab Repunite citisen, YATID beenas o neturaliced —
. Patten citizen in Hoveuber 14+ _ ; ae

; &. In March 1943. £¢ was. reported fran Saudd. Arabia by 6 —
friendly Mestern service that Subject vas. a representative of the
@leHASR Trading Company in Gaudi ‘Arabia, which. vas belleved:to bea
eover fire for the Yayptien Intelligense cerviees PAID was: described
as a senior Egyptian Intelligence. officers. ; ;

   

  

  

SEORET (39 FOLLIES

 
   
