 

 
 

Maxico, The Staticn has inferpation oa nost of the Persone listed. §

  

 

CONTINYATION OF
DSPATCH

Oelanosa ¢ and went to Mexico, while at the Ugviebitelds Mexico, sho gat and tout
in leve vith the sen of e velletoedo Colemii:n family. ‘This romance developed
anto an affair which teok her from Mexico to Ecuador to Colondia, beck to Mexico,
and finally to Cubs, Zering this tine, AHUPAS/] either lived im the Colozbdian:
jungles vere her. parezour and his twin brother atteepted co. rairce vari fjuens, |

or trevelied with the: atteaxpting to market it. Tie, eviscte exied with the falizre
of the enterprise, Harhael's addiction to dope snd subsecuent lesa of bis tind.
Meanvhile, # UPAS/1 hed contyacted a sericue troric blood disesse, snd returned-te’
the United Stetes, . In-early 1959, A UPAS/1 enceavored <@ interest the Cuban
Ministry of Health ins project on coatrol of drug eddiction besed cn her experi-
ences wits her perarcur and his Srdéher. Upem her return tc the United States,
she becrre involved with the 26th of July Movesent in Few lock City, end also
assisted.the Cuben U. #. Mission in news clizcting and other szall jeba, Becsuse
ef her interest in the Coban Revolution, & /L ae invited by Celia S&iCied,
secretary to Fidel CaSTEO, to go to Cubs and agsist her. In September 1959,
ASUAPS/1 went to Caba hare ese vorked with SAiCHZZ and traselated articles and
€&STRO speeches. In addition te her translating, AMUPAS/1 served as a public
relations officer, arrenging introduetions far Engiish-speczking persone visiting
the Prime Hinteter's office, In this czpacity she was im ceatect with mmercis
Cuban Goverment officials, ,

 

  
 

4. he will be seen from hor personal history stetenest (copy udar separate.
cover), ASUPAS/1, hag dene a number of things - a summary cf her actusi exploynent
shows an exoloynent pattern of joss lasting from a few weexa to several months,
nor longest period or exployment wee hor stay in Laba writen lasted ly # year,
Despite, er parhaps becanse of, her inability to "stay pat® Sutiect a wide
end varied gro:p cf scquaintences, and produces a volme co? infermation which, 4f
esrefully sifted,resuits in much that is useful and provides mmerous creretionpal
leads, lias’. year cha we closely associated vith the Ouben Zouth Koveeent end |
assisted in orgenizing the sumer youth enmps in C) During her recent tzip to
Venemele unsere she: reviewed her translation cf Ti Eni tne Sardings with
the author, ex-president of Guatemala AREVAIO, 4° UFAS/1 Interviews) etacents ca
her own initiative to record their views on current problers, Her list of acmuniae .
tances:runs the ganot from colieze crefessore end volitiesl ficures to-taxi ¢rivers

  
 

and.prostitates, and there appears -to:be no: line drawm*becaace of: Face, creed,

tolor, religion or political ideology.

5. hecording to the ascesauents nade .of Subject, 1t.49.belleved. thet ‘becanse :
of emotions] vacilisticn smd potential suscentibility te leftist indectrinetion,
she snould ba hondled vita caution, She can Le crovided wth general requirments
but, ahould be kept unuitting of modus operandi. Sabiect reouires direction snd
g-idance to dasure specific information; failure results in receipt of varied end
often interesting information, but net necessarily thet which is castred, AMUPSS/L
is an individual who needs a “cause” wwno erperently needs scmething af somemo
she can crusade -cr. In the past it hsa-been a paramour, ced the Cuban Revolution;
at the present tine it is assisting her country to combat the spread ef Commnians
temorrey it could be Comumiom itself. It is taerefore necessury te keep her _ .
motivation directed alone lines of cur intere-t so thet she idl] not be tempted to
lotk elsmtere,' It is’ ith the rosaitility in mind that she could espouse an alien
cause (perhaps undttingly) that contact with and direction of her, should not reveal
rodus operandi of a too-sensitive nature, Handled with the shove restr. tions in
mind, Subject can provide a wealth of informaticn. fo date Subiect badBesn told
for whem she ia vorking althouch she strongly suspeets FULAFE; eho bas given re
troining or SW ayctes; at moat, sha would be cble to descrite ressibly aha’ |
doven persone she his set under aline, It $s therefore surrested that ahe be. given

 

 

 

| specifie-requirecents which she ‘can fulfill in vermal:cirtiss, or which she con

acquire from eontacts ene wskee through norsal chunnele, The psychiatrist futher

sugyosts thst she will prebably respend te direction by a ferale case officer more
Sfoctively than to a kale, since she is apparently under ecme strain to. sosure, pee

herself of her attractivensse in her associations with ren, { .

6. Contact Instruetions ure being forvaried under separate caver, If the Station
does desire to contrct 4-0PAS/1, and levy recuirenenta on ber, it 43 requested thet
anything wa h-she may want to forvard te. Headquarters ‘alao be handled. through the
Station eventhourch sho alse hes en address in Hew York through which she eontacts her
present Case Officer, . . ; .

7, Atteched also is 9 list of individuals Subject intends te centact wile in

 

 
 

rea END CF D:

ena Ally Gm

 
  

 

 

 

 

ee

cmmnseeet cot semen an een “tment emt hee
 

~ fo.
a ae » NS
Nerevenet

ATCH [2.23

104-10175-10020

 

 

    
 

   

- BISP

     
 
      
    

ie]
Chief of Station, Mexico City

 

 
 

ar)

Chief, WH Division

 

 SaBHer

-GMZTP/Asgat Travelling in Hexico

CTIA REAURED WLFERT ICE

 

     

H

|

!

i

a

1, AMGPIS/L, aHead-carters contact on Cuban matters, departed on 26 May 1961, i

for Mexico City, where abe ia pleaning to rezain until eouetine in August. It is _ i
believed thet eubject mey be of seme use to the Station-during her stay in Merten, -
ACOPAS/L, foruer public relations officer and tranglater in-tke effica of Juen OFA
Cordova, Execstive Secretary to Fidel CASTRO, was reeruited in Hstana in June 1960.

It 4s recogrized that her scsition within the CASTRO biererchy, her fluency in : !
Spanish, ani her abliity tc acve freely ih certain circles, gave her access to 3

information witch would be cf value to KUZARK, She is presently under Oral Agree» |

ment to KUSA: and is peid cn a "spot cash" basis, |

i

H

|

 

. !
2, She ws fluttered in dune 1960, under lesa than eatisfactery conditions, .
and eince the resulta vere inconclusive, it was decided to have ner retarn to the
States for realzeament et bar first opportunity, In late Septexber 1960, A UPAS/L
was able to leave Cuba under pretext of requiring zedical treatent, and was
reflattered snd reassessed. Under these conditicns it vas determined that Subject.
wom td be anand damad Beleank Crem thea Pallaing glamatntar ag!
a. Connections vita Soviet Satellite Intelligence Sarvicas,
be Cownections with Cubsa Intellicence. Services, : .
e, Zevealine her association with menbers of KUBARK te members of the 4
. Gaban Goverrment or Inteliigecve Services, in
& Use ef narcotics, a
@. Somosemial activities... ! iy
£. Membership in tue Coommist Party. - af
ge Coumniat totectrinatio. 2... ,
. hy. Delitherately attesptiag techtde. informations +
, vee « Committing any serious, undetected cringe. . :
; : i
3. While A:UPAS/1 world epueur to be a valoable asset based on the above =i
~ information, tzere are certain other fundamental aspects-which must. be takea into }. |
' consideration in dealing vith her, During her celiega years, Gunject's nether Da

' died tragically, and her father, vhan she adores, remarried a uman vham AHUPAS/1‘!

' thoroughly dislikes, Beeense of this mariage, Subject quit the Uaiversity of . cs

ala HPS f
CON Ta Tot Bol *

   
            
       
  
    

  
  

DATE T*PED

 

© SSPAICHLD

 

Attachnents: i, sun an
1, list of Individuals te be contacted . 6 Jane 1962 | inet 13?
2, True rae pouch = PArdyaGag ie 77 TTT TTT takin eA MD ER

   

_HOn.9800 ” 2

HCAS RUAFTEPS FILE MUMBER

3. Contact Instructions; 0/S/¢

 

stoseVidela bj C/WH/3/Mexi
COORUINAT IS :

1 = WH/3/¥ext /Chrono
1 © Subject

      
     

GPPRCE SYMBOL

a ee
DISPATCH | 14
