 

SECRET /30G (Tite

WHER 6uLED um
ine.

PROCESS SHEET FOR oo al COLLECTIONS

Foe rei SE s$E ONLY fom @ MEADOUARTE Og BE out

89,0 "aa: ast on

Former President,’ Consolidated Ral hays Ta
Gow Sricann, Leulsians .

Cy "SOUGCE Uiama Fitin Or ranieation, diddrom or

GxeRa piesEhiBATION CONTR,
THIS REPORT BAY BE RELEASED TO
2. 9, 6 BELOW UNLESS RESTRICTED 19 SECTION —--n--

20 co
RES

ca

ny ‘SPER CARE BTATUG:
‘RA PORY RELPONEIYE Yo ReauiAEMENTS fa ome FOePich Ga sata:

re oar Msn we"

i pita, ine 7 aaa

a 5 Uae PREVIGUS

Sarton

 
74-00000

:
i
'
|
i
{

 
   
  
     
 
 
   
    
 
   
    

 

‘Bee maps momeren aMarvng fa Terenas Tareren of cre trend Incts ant Ga cummeg of the Caxmmege leon tte
88. GES fe P82 ori Pha. Ge conemanss oF anotines 4 wheh © ety aoe | = etre een mw gut Cy fe

 

 

C06 = 1-0 E-tiT ote
COUNTY ube won. [TO
BSECT —- Condition of Rallrueds In Cube _ bare DsTe, 8 dunt 190 S
, NO PAGES 8
SerERENCES “

Date OF . : . ;
NFO. 1963 :
AACE &

 

SOURCE Cuban citizen.

formar executive of Consolidated Ral roads of Cube who fled from Cube ta
1961. _ ;

Zine source of this tnformetion Is normally available for further Interre=
getion, should this report generate additional requirements,/ .

Z0n flie in CIA Library is @ copy of “Consolidated Statements. of Rolling
Steck," years ending 30 Jun 59 and 58, published by the Consolidated
Rallroads of Cuba, and @ copy (in Spanish) of a statenent of ‘the condition _
of the rolling stock of all Cuban rattvoads, published by the Cuban Ministry
- Of Transport and dated Havana, 2 Jul 63, both of which documents are referred
te In the following report.- UNCLASSIFIED./ ; os ; .

From tine to tine | have received: information from soma of ay former exployees
tha are stil! employed by the Consolidated Rallroads of Cubs (which was teken ©
- ever by Castro) giving me Information as to the conditien of the val lroads.

Tee Inforuetion which | hve received free tins t6 tins te to the offest , a
: use poor maintenance, lack of spare 8. - Ganera! jelency,
the rallroads In Cube ere elt but inoperative: ,

( am told thet this year Eis6/, tor the first tise since Cestro hes been
holding his blg meatings In Havene on-May Gay, be‘ did aot: transport people
from the. country to Havene by ralivoed. § Judge from this thet the ralle

roads were Incapable of transport ing.large auubers.of people as thay hed tn

. Steck of all railresds In Cubs for the fiscal. year June 1962 © dune 1963

A conparison with the statement: ef rolling stock of the Concelidated Ral froeds..
Of Cubs anly for tha years. ending 30 Jun.58 and-59 (uetch Ie the lest state -
+ ent prepared by the company bafere Cestre seized the ‘ral troads). will show.

‘the deplorebie condition ef the rolling steck. So ee

*

Cobol FebDehetoTa ated, oe .

t have. recelved. from Cuba @ statement concoming the conditien of the col ng, .
74-0000 . rf

: a Be-€-0-6-9 ; poF
- | ad bo
whe i i

26.° Q. ‘what fs the general patterns and direction of flow of this trafflet :

4m seats

 

| fe Fron ‘country to cities.

i

Q. What considerations detensine the selection of the. means of transport + j :
‘for tha asjor cormodi tas woved? Y
a

rn nn nthe eri ot ms Hane BS

   
    
    

A Price, thao, asture of commodity, and fact Iithes. oo, _.
_ 2B, Q. What pipelines, If any, are located In Cubs?
tone to my knowledge. ne

 

oe

Set ee he cetencdat

 

kab atwbihiyy on

Shepepi ae tH
we Wd Lye,
 

 

  
   
   
  
   

1S.
; 86.
i :
3
ae We
8.

          
     
   
     

        

      
    
    

      
 

° eee
- 3 ro
Q. oes each freight trein carry 8 caboose oa Its rear eng?
A, Yes : .
Q. What Is the aversgs and maxiaum speed of: passenger tratas batwean stops?

A. Maxtmu speed was 50 alles per hour and average of not mare thea 30
alles per hour.

Q.. Can you give the number of | employees of the common carrlar rat troeds?
Qs there a seasonal variation ia exploymont?

‘Alf can only spesk for the Consol idated Ral ways: of Cuba which had over,

aed third of the Cuban sugar crop, so that most of ‘the traffle was frod the
" wegetables and of and other comiodi ties.

as 36.8 kl loneters..)

J Me “4 would, say that Tn 1960 ie was abiout the sane as tn 1952.

, re § would say to. and from Havana. would estimate ‘thet. in this ‘wafflc

: a ts daly commutation. a signi ficant factor ta the. movement of passengers.

  

 
 

 
 
 
   
 

: Inel gat fl cant. iS

\ bes Memey was in peer dend} tion when’ b bag fubactn: 1961.

   

She "ata ak 18 bt ey

10 thousand employees. Thera was Seasonal variation but: ig was vary slight.

Q. Can you daseribe the main frelght haulage pattem of the val hwy. system
ef Cuba? indicate aajor connodi-ties and direction of. eqvemante :

At ean speak only for the Consol Idated: Railways of Cuba. The main traffic

was on the Cuba Rallrond. and the Western. Rallroad of Cuba. The heaviest traffic : :

was from Camaguey to Nuevitas. The Consolidated Rallways of Cuba handled

oe

sugar mills to the coast. However,. the rad bway | also handled cattle, vice, . -

Q. What Is the average length of haul? (mois: was stated In a 1952 repert

a What ere the principal routes of passenger movement? How dense ore os
such moverants? or

the ratirosds carried about six thousand passengers per. dey.

 

“te Is not a stgnt icant, fectors: lt : , : a

Q Is a4 neh “ie arene an “i toa ta we total. 5

  

re With. respect co. Imports and exports, whe rts: are ulpé for. grastest..

taterchange. of tonnage Geteson. ths ral treads. ae open irene Te what

Shipp! a. these sem portsor any others used for with seas csi 80,
ping ° as

Bp seeking: “tor the consot dated hal tways, of cube, 1 would sey ‘Nuavi tes, :
Farafa, Paseelt iio, Sunglago de Cuba, -Boqueran, Antifia, Sunta Crug dal Sur,
end Castide. | would say. thet any Interchange wheh: consewise ‘shipping te.
Qe In whee condition are:the prinstpal Aigioeys: of. ‘uet “

4. There ie enly one. nale- highway on. the lotend: ‘wht eh runs preckicalty “the
antive length of the Island from Pliner dei Rio te. tlavana to Santi age. ad cube

es

nan ae, sata oo -

   

net eal fi

(rma

Bente

!

 

 

 

 
 
     
 
    

 
 
      
   
   
74-0000

 

 

 

 

   
   

{ .
j .
mo, ;
; .
i WELT So Ss PE = .
po : S-E-C-fi-8-T : 4
| . . 4
7 Coury Cube worn [|
, | SauecT _ Ral broads 2 BATE OGTR. ST duly 19% : .
i ‘ ae
‘ eee tee . WO. PAGES . . a
: cr & . : : ‘ v4
DATE oF . Pot tes Supplenentary . ae
ee, At €9/09 ase BITE
y DATE AC Cuba, 1961 and cartier , Se . : ;

 

INFORMATION

 

   

| Cuban citizen, ‘Refuges who left Cubs In January Teen. ; .
- He was employed by Consolidated Railroads of Cuba for aboug 2 yoars. .

: fs source of this taformation fs. normally available for further
terrogations should this report generate additional requirements, 7

* fam ag years old and t started working tn November 1940 as an office
elerk In the Havana office of the Guantanamo Western Rallvoad Company. .~
‘$a 1953. ¢ was elected Vice President of the Consolidated Rallways of -
‘Cuba, the Cuba Railroad and the Cuba Northern Rallroad. in February.
1954 § was elected President of the Guantanamo Western and Vice -
‘Prasident of the Cube Rallroad and the Cuban Hortharn Railroad.. in June
1958 ¢ wes elected President of the Consolidated pet er of Cuba anid
§ held this Ptaban Goverment. by Ls 1960 when confise =. -
Cuban nt by Lan Dacros i 850: eats left.Cube

’ ‘can you tell ma what-was tha ‘Yength of the sats oes arated by
comon.carriers in Guba and what was: “the total. h Tengeh of all branch - .
tres. conbtnad? .

oe fi can only speak for the ut lenge of the Consol t dated fat heays of
- Guba, which ran from.senta Clara. to Camaguoy to Santiago de Cuba to -.
-Quentenano. | would cay thet the maln line and. tho branches conbload
: Zwauld be 1400 pias miles.

Qe. What weight of rall (se -mose commen non natniiines? what is the. rr
_sppreainete age. of mast metneling ral! end are. tle pletes commonly usadt

  
 
  
    

oo "

 

    
     

 
 
 
     
   
    
   
 
      
    
   
 
 
  

  
 
 

 

  

 
 

Ae

  

 
 

ihe t would say the mast commonly’ used rall fs 80 Ine par yards About

5 pee cent of the main line hae. 125 tba par yard. tidings rat fa
+ @6 tbe per yard. The approximate aga of most of tie nal Hs att s
vie « te 2 years. Te plates are commonly uted:

      
       
  
 

 

aberthadiinscebiede | .

Di yi ae
74-00000

i i is
/ .

ole

 

&, Q. How memy thes crlst per kilometer of nein lfas? hat type of ties are
: used? Are thes tresred; if so, in emat mecner? What is the avarags ilfe of
ties In matesiing service? fan you glve an estioare of the sverage age of
ties noe ia the asia bias? .

Ae To ura best of ay recollection, there are close to threes thousand ties

‘per &llonater of main Hine, The tles are of hard wood but they are not treated.
"The average life of the ties Is about 15-years and t would say that the

average a3e of the thes now on the sain line Is about 1§ years.

 

$.,Locate and Indicate siz of principal feel ght classification yards and other
_ | Frotght yards,

‘A. Our main classtficatton yards were.at Santa Clara, Camaguey, Horen, ¢ .
7 , Sanclago de Cubs, and Guantanamo. — mae

caupsidieey eke as am beewie +

eae ncaa agi seas termes sem Ee nt

rr i

6. Q@. Locate and describe the princtpal esl sore for stees and for. diese!
lecomot ives. :

  
  
 
   
  

GEN 2 Er NaN EIR RUT TENT HIRI Ne SY NE

cede inne

yet

i A. We had complete repair shops for both steam and diese! locomotives in the .
eastern wueskirts of Camnguey City. As a matter of fact, these shops ere.
shown on the map of Camaguey City which appears on the road map of Cuba: i
| published by Esso Standard O11, $A, In 1956. . 4

 
  

 

2

L

|

e
eof
1°

et
ied

   

Q. Locate and deseribe the principal repalr shops for freight and passenger. cars. | i

oF
‘A. . The same shops In Camaguey Clty were used for the repair of fratght and an va
_ passenger cars, The Consolidated Rallways of Cuba did all of thalr am repalrs ‘
and In addition they did work for varlous sugar mills fn the ares. ~~ van

o

 
      
    
  

he
i

   

is any part of the system electrified?

  
     
  
 

A. ‘flo. The Consolidated fat ways of Cuba hed 8 diesels and six stem esate,
The six steam engines were used more or less for femargency w

* War is the number and total length of tunnels? oa

   

   
     
    
 

 

: A “There are no tunnels on the systen..

    

igent soneizca™\

 

be a” State the tumber of leconot Ives te each major category, of diesel, steem
'.: and electric; and, insofar as possible, braak- the totals. down by horsepower,
eee and country of vorigine ;

7 As ‘ have ‘stated, we had Bh diese! “cosines abs six steam sesas wt do not
remember the detatis about these but. | know thet some: of the
1600 horsepower, ane 900 hand seme 600 to 0 650 horsepaer: vhied

 

      
    
   
      
   
  

   

Ae 0 afratd thet | cannot give you accurate figures m3 know that. we had over ‘

“Que thousand. fraight ears but | do not re the exact number ner.do |. |
Pemamber the number of passergar ca, the "en fi tert “<

eaterlel conteins thie Infermst! . ~ mo

  

    

Ws & Were’ aay passang ger or fratght cars equipped with. rolter bearings

Yas, fone, hus 1 do nat remember how manys. :

: Are diesel Iéaonett ves operated In.multiple? r spel

but omer ne “rend on ois ea the vpn and tha
. td ; “f ‘

 
   
 
 

    

eae VaR)
4 rade of 4

 

   

ity
yf o,f

 

 

   
    
   
     
 

SACEEY
weme F dad we

 

Raden s aamey
Pus. Cations
eee dly Otnt

Gn tear, Plosen roture to W078 by

ea Register may er may ast be.

taterasted fim thase pict:res, atl of
chich were taken jn Guba in October
1959. Gur contact est Castro at. this | -
ties -t-ues he (cup eantect) wea unalog

hte private alyplene te tho search for

| ae Grmed plans ia which. Gani lo
Glenfocrse was killed, tf peasidie,

' @ emstd eppreaiate. (t 1 you. could have
@pilestes wads. fer cur cistent,

 

 

 

18 JAN 1307

 
  

104-10164-10004]

 

 

 

 

Daves 2) Mey 1968 -

SOURCE /OOMRACT Files Frank BARTES (New Crlesns) ae

ennai
aoerecs (onmsaTATaCa (Alicia Crus BUSTILLO)

eee ane ee rr ne PANE ttneseemenamnnnsss

BATE OF pocuesrr 2A April 1968 ©
ORIGIEATOR Servicées/¥. Thorne oe
BUVISIGH OR SRUT Services .

 

POR FURTHER TRFORMATION OB ExARR (COMBAT STRICT PLEASE BEYER TO
SEEAITIVE DOCUMENT FILED: .

 

ro oe

 

:

      
   
     
        
74-00000

   

. sk
ar Dearerar

 

dvieit® — : .

Frotographs of Fidel Castro and Other euben Personalities i
@vOHEa CF iTees BOs Cats arms ISels) pRetogregna, aagetiogs, oF Bsigens . . i

§ black and white glossy priate - : ov]

sete ov envotuse . Getober 1959 im A.

 

conc CLABSIPTCATIOe OF PROTOGAaeNs Ente SEPARATED ROE THIS CORB. iTRe stesslPicetion aces sot be the eased
CT rae cvorcren use once (Coo cra orvicsass ante COE secaer
CoD coerieewriar CR enccassiries
REEF SOURCE OL SCRIPTION
vefuges, Forser official of @ Cuban callroed,.

 

. 4
18 seve apr-re WARE ADDITIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC wATERIAL AVAILABLE? Co re Lt wom ey a
say SouRcers waue Bt REVEALED To GRarwics AcoISTER, OC, If REQUIRED? GE} ree C——Jx0

_______ DESCRIPTION OF NAVERI AL,
The pletures ere nusbered on tha back in pencil In the upper leftehend esrner.

Ths: subjects area identified as follew:  .

» fecond from left with beard and eyeglasses, seratching bee chin,
| Que) Chides, former President of Wastern Ralluays of Guba; fourth fran left in
| Shirt sieoves end dark glesses, frank Cartes, foraer President ef Consolidated .
hie Se are a ight = Frank Bortes; Rufe Leper Fresquet,

eo Bo rom loft to r rebar’

former Hinlster ef Tessury, Cube; name unin, but former head eof Ralluay: _-
Genaton Fund and parson who recelved publicity hes kidnapper of . racing ériver:
Gane pours eg,

Ga, Jo The only persona contact con Identify ere Side!’ Casto, Prank. :
Gertes ta shirtslesves end dork glasecs, and et fer cight of pleture,; hatless |
ené with heir mussed, @ensal “Clesfueges, holder of various poste in the: Castre
Goverment, at one thas Public orks ialster,.

ito. & @ Fidel Cestro, Frank Gertes in white shirt bi rs ond darts Steses, fiat.
Ghiden sexe to Gartes with eyeglasses and hand to

ts, $ © fren 3678 te right © frenk Gartec, pponene a glasses, Gaal ‘Ghites, .
Senter Gh hand te aaa Gigel. Centre, soldier on Sereas’ rie le ons ef -
rats

 

|
i
‘

a

oe Seb nee aL a

ns saps ctmtingmatr Tm hee

 

 

08 Peavicus
yay tat sarrtanee tole

 
 

PROCESS SHEET FOR oo. ¢ COLLECTIONS

70a m MEAD OUS BYERS | wie

foe FELD Use o Smet

dram ay E ABmusbot =
Freak bartes' ‘President, Consolidated Rat
s aa Sermer e etre,
1668 Masen Salth Ave. :

a "GEURCE Uveme, Tcl, Orpeniantion, Address oo Mnnbord

EXTRA DISSEMIMATION CONTROL,
: ‘THIS REPORT MAT. BE ACLEASED TO
4. & 9, 4 BELOW UNLESS RESTRICTED 1% SECTION -“Het
‘ov AGENCY cousDLT:
8. sepROVeD ERYERMAL PHOITCTS
8, _WON-UHD AGENCIES fon M10 STUDIES |

: FOR 9g ued Rravious

a] amirien

me

one

aed

heath al,

uate epebeatr”

 
