 

Atactmge see eteatiamecmmetomere we as

 

 

2)

(3)

(k)

‘b. Actual Detes cf the sllezed Secret INRA Mee

Q)

(2)

@)

(&)

 

Names and blogrephic data on Subject's carents
were sctmitted to the Bureau for tracing in
their Ziles. The Zureau reported that these
incivicaals were not identified in Brrean files.

Green Lists on Sukiect's carents were sthnitted
to Fi/). Zeml=s were negative.

An attempt wes made to croctre copies of the news-
paper (Sox, 1937) chich =ight teve carried the
story eX Scbfect's father's exculsion from the
Party. It was ceternined that no Cuban newspapers
are xect on Zile in the Agency. (Eibrary dsquisi-
tien Eranch, CCl/Ccba, YBID, exd ws /!/Prop were
queriei,) Becatse of tine limitations, no atremt
was mace to procure the papers fron another Agency
er from the Library of Congress.

   

Ag inticated above. bacz issues of Cuban newsgapers
are no’, available within the Agersy. It was there.
fore impoesibie to chee Subject's story about the
meeting against ness stories in contesporary issues
of Zeralucion, wich he said was given a news release
on ine secona cay of the meeting.

 

& review of Y3ID laily Summaries for October 1959 wes
reques-ed of SID Zor the purpose of unearthing any
overt tr ast resorting on the useting. ¥F2ID,
Eatin imerican bracch, Mr. Rodney Levins, advised
thas it was mot pessible fo> that office to esnduct
such a review 2. this tine. These summaries are
available for review at 1717 H Street, and will te
screened if ihe tine and effort involved are con~
sidered wortiyhile.

 

  

a
WH/L/FI (Barbara Bimunds) "advised that no reporting

on shis Ostcher DURA meeting had been received other
than that fron ARTIMS, ©

It is noted that Saturdays and Sundays in October 1959
fell on 3-h, 10-11, 17-18, and 24-25 October, and 31
October ~ 1 HOvember. ‘Therefore at least one of
Sabject's accomts of the dates involved is false.

 

 

AAT ein mains wey

 

 

 

 

 
 

(tostotez-io0eg]

 

   

WORM POR: Guief, WH/L 1 February 1961” .
7 >

SGBSRCT : 3 Mamel ARTIME Buega - i
Review of Vile Initiated on Zeceipt of : .

Derogatory In’ormation on Subject froa Pedro DIAZ Lanz

1. Because of the coments race by Pedro Luis DIAZ Lanz on 13 dacncary
1961 to the effect that Meruel ARTIVE Euesa may be « Commnist agext, £2Ta's
2hie was reviewed for the perpese of uncovering any information which migat
support DIAZ" allegation. i

2. Sreas epen to questict are the following:

ectis Father: &s noted by Mertta
& 228 poiygrach evarination that his

- 2 ed % SADISG TAIL Guring we opanish 2 Bary

i had gone to Spain curing the war, tet had not besn a member cf the

1 Commnist Party since 1939, ‘his svblect was not Pursued ty the soly-

i grag cperater. Subfect gare scmexhat warying accounts -for the reasors Ps
for Ris father's quitting the Parc: erring the polygrash exanination, .
he explained that ihe Party had ir-ended to send his father to E<ssia
for training, and aiso had ordered his father to inforr on his 2riexds;

-when Ris father refzsed, the Party expelled hin. Later, in an acto ;
blorrachy, Subject stated that hie father had left the Party becuse - .,
of the “treason which they cem:itted against his intimate frien,

FEEMLNDZ Martinez. ‘This "treaszo=™ wes not further detailed. Sebfect i
stated that his father's expulsicn (or resignation) was reporzed in .
Eoy a% the time.

a. Conmorist Party s¢:

     
     

  

    

 

  

 

b. Report on the Octebe> 19c9 reas Mesting: Scbject reported thet the |
open ecuissions cl Jouuciss 2a
IMRA neeting in Cctcber 1959 preciniated his defection. Szbiect cevid
che meeting. At first he reported
* that it took place curing the las+ week in Ontcher 1959. (His letter
{ to Fidel stating his reasons fer cezection, which was widely circclated
: efter his exfiltration, was dated 2 October.) He iater corrected this
: : _. to 7-3 October. Durinz the colygrash examinaticn, he stated te cowid : co
i - mot remember the dates, but that it was a two-day meeting, on a Saturday
i :

   

 

 

_ and Sunday, some tine in mid—Cctober.

: : 3. The following actions were taken in an attempt to resolve dovbts rats
i _ by these points: :

i ‘es Conmnist Affiliation of Father.

a ialtrnom bel sie g& weet

1 ' (1) wanes of parents were traced in RID, with negative results. .

ay a an |
BOU-2€ 7¢.

pores

i

a)

sd

  

DD NOE REPRODUCE
RETURN TO CLA

aA

 

q

      
 

staat lame ON AN A

 

bh.

5.

 

 

Conclusions...

Results of this review of Subfect's file do not support she
allegations made ty DIAZ Lanz. Althongh the two mator areas o? aust
rezain scuevhat unresolved, the weight of evidence would seem to te
in the Subject's favor.

ae

De.

da.

Agency and Brreaz files contain no identiziable resort
of Scbject's father. .

AZTIME hinsel? volunteered in’ormation concerning both
the cited areas cpen to poss‘ble question. The Srblecs
had every reason to believe that the information te
volunteered (i.e. that his father’s exrsul.
Party was reported in Eoy, ard that the I meeting
wags covered by a reporter from Revalucion) could be
easily verified.

  

The recc:d of AXTIMS's polygraph examination stated
that strong polygraph ericance had peen chiained that
Subject was a tona Tide anzi-Castro and anti—Commmiss
defector; that IVHA had held a meeting around the
middle of Getober at which Scbject was present; and
that the letter o7 res'gnation addressed to Fidel was
written ty hin and that it wes generally accurate in
reporting the DIiZA meeting.

‘There has been no evidence in FI/D that AZTINR is
other than what he clains to be. :

 

    

Corent.

Dave Morales, UMIATE/SI, has additionally commented that here
is no love lest betyean AXCDNS ard DIAZ Lanz and that the latter's

" allegations against the former are probably false. In view of Diaz
Lanz' feelings against ARTIMS, it is nov unlixely that he is encearor-.
ing to build hixself up in the eyes of his case officer by discrediting

 

q

petites Gili Seriya sles ctbeinmc disdonas »

wipe tne

weave deed,

st a Ee oy

Ete emerannits timed cates ve

 

Feiean

 
