34-00000 + +

SERRE

 

| to call me to confirm. He agreed with our stated
intention to delete references to information from
the FBI or foreign liaison services.

b. Mr. Kline complained that because of the
large amount of excised material from the 400-page
study which we had already provided him with, he

i needed an oral briefing on the general content of

‘ these excisings. With great reluctance I agreed to
review these excisions and brief him to the extent
possible,

c. Mr. Kline asked if there were any written
. comments by Deryabin regarding his interrogations of
: Nosenko. He is interested in having these as soon
\ as possible because he intends to talk to Deryabin
tomorrow, 27 April. I added that I was unaware of
any such comments, but would check and get them to
him as soon as possible if there were any. (Upon
i checking I found a section of the 835-page study
i which does pertain as well as Deryabin memos, and
i these portions are being made available through
Mr. Shepanek. today.)

d. Mr. Kline asked to see the full extent of
F Nosenko's reporting on Oswald. I told him that this
information had been provided to CI Staff, but that
I would see that he got it as soon as possible. (I
am looking into this matter this afternoon and will
get this material to him.)

e. Mr. Kline had some questions about KGB .

i training facilities in Minsk. These questions arose

| because of Epstein's theory that Oswald was trained

‘ in Minsk and the implications from an emigre report
which I had earlier made available to Mr. Kline

that there was a KGB training facility in Minsk. (I
am researching this, but at this moment it looks

like the emigre reporting is indicative of staff
officer instead of agent training and it is not at

all clear that this unevaluated reporting is accurate.)

SECRET
[td 10146-10232), :

ee Cr

26 April 1978

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Benjamin F. Pepper
Chief, SE/ORP

SUBJECT: Meeting with House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) Staffer Ken Kline, 26 April 1978

;
|

1. For the second time I met with Mr. Ken Kline
for a couple of hours at CIA Headquarters, present also
i were Mr. Patrick Carpentier and "Shep" Mr. Shepanek of
| CIA. During the latter portions of our meeting Vasia
Gmerkin of CI Staff joined us. In haste, but for the
record, the following is noted:

a. With respect to the 835-page draft paper,
; which we are sanitizing for the House Select
: | Committee for Assassinations (HSCA), I noted that
we had some problems. The first was the fact that

: there was alot of information on American and

. foreign leads supplied by Nosenko, that is
identifications of individuals who are agents or
developmentals, or were of interest to the KGB,
as reported by Nosenko. I noted that I realized
that we had no legal right to excise these names

: (having been so informed by Mr. Len McCoy, DC/CI

i on the basis of his discussion with our lawyers),

: but that I failed to see why the biographic data
was germane to the HSCA investigation. I also
noted that we would be excising any information
regarding these leads that came to us from either
the FBI or foreign liaison services. Mr. Kline
replied that the names of Americans were essential,

! but that he thought that his committee staff could

: do without the names of foreigners. He promised

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED
E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

SEGRET 2/3 8
yeannna foe ”

f. Mr. Kline wanted all CIA information on

KGB procedures, particularly with regard to the
handling of American defectors. (I pointed out
that to the best of my knowledge there is very
little information on this topic. Mr. Kline
pointed out that he was aware of some ten
an redefectors who presumably had supplied the U.S.

a Government with information in this regard. I

i told him if anyone had talked to these redefectors
if probably would have been the FBI and that he
might want to query them, but in the meantime I
would look into this question.

 

 

g. Mr. Kline requested a briefing on the Second
Chief Directorate operations against Americans to
give him a context in which to place both Nosenko
reporting and Oswald's sojourn in the Soviet Union.
He told me he would give me convenient days in early

May for such a briefing and I said w 03
accommodate. (I plan to ask Mr. to take
care of this briefing, the emphasis being on the

time Oswald was in the Soviet Union.)

 

 

 

2. I tried to gently suggest to Mr. Kline that if he
was setting about to establish Nosenko's bona fides he had
many problems facing him. I enumerated some of them, noting
particularly the need to place Nosenko's picture of the KGB
in the context of other information we had from active
sources and defectors. I noted that we obviously could not
share all this information with the HSCA even if they had
the five years to study such material, Mr. Kline said it
was not the business of the committee to establish Nosenko's
: bona fides, but only to establish the validity of Nosenko's
i remarks regarding Oswald. He added, however, that the committee
} needed additional information on Nosenko, the KGB, etc., etc.,
in order to place Nosenko's information on Oswald in context.

 

: 3. The last portion of our meeting was devoted to the
; upcoming threat that Nosenko will be forced to appear in
: public session before the HSCA. I noted all the security

SeGhil
 

 

 

problems involved, particularly stressing that if either
face, body or voice become known through television, radio,
or observation to the public, Nosenko's life would be
greatly jeopardized. Mr. Kline thought that adequate
security precautions could be found to deal with this
problem, but noted that this matter would have to be left
for later resolution. Obviously, he and the committee want
Nosenko, the prime witness, to appear in public, thereby

giving the committee the full benefit of his testimony.

I suggested that a full transcript of an executive meeting

would suffice for these purposes.
_ fr (

Fa F. vepph Oo
Distribution:

Original - Acting Chief, Coordination and Review Staff,
Office of Legislative Counsel

1 - O/SA/DO/O - Mr. Shepanek
1 - C/CI via DC/CI

1 - C/SE/OR/TI

1 - C/SE

1

C/SE/ORP chrono

a
t
&

sebiel
