 

 

  

(od i0ri-t01eg] oo.

. 7 p: et Noe s4
SECRET “
os : : : one - S 23 GS

LABEGN

t

i

A Hollywood soript writer and eritie whe, in : i

1953, stayod a number of months in Moscow (living in the \

Hotel Peking). Ho had. beon invited, it secms, by (7) the i

Ministry of Cultura Ol (VEADUCD oes not imow vhy LANSON :

Wad around for 20 lonse He bia. wife with him but he !

ar gid not appear to gat venl Velo. troatmont because i

a ay saw him cating in the "Diet Vood Restaurant” chore
ol WTADuCt) went for hie own diet but where he éuspocted

LAWSON ate becuse it wis cheape

  

 

o
25 (vinbaad) eathored that LATSGH was probubly a
menber of “the U.S. Cumaunist Party and under suspleion of
tha FeBels
ol. : ;
3. Grnicd civet mot LARSON at @ sexinir held for a <
ginena workers et the "Dom Tyorchostva" at Eolshovose __ ‘ :
ol VLADUC uns not a mebor of the soninor itself (vhich
asted somo four wouks) but wa staying at Rolshovo.
LinSul eaue Gown to Leaturo to the seminar, TAVSGN, whom
ol Wa" NICE) Suspeeta of being rekatively unsuccessful in hia
> Own country, ma kocn t prove himself 4 great expert on | ha
the cinema und a vor; prvgressavely ninies person, highly ro
eritical of mony eapcets of Nollywaode9| VIADUCT) got the : :
impression that he wes « person whe found be wai “odd nan
out" dn the UsS.4. but nno vaanot aocepted by his Soviet
counterparts elther.2(Winnucr 8 told by one of the
interpretresses of the Union of Cinema Vorkers that poor
LANSUN wanted to mlx in and he given something ta do but
without success, Mo ons took much notice of him (he ma
not a big enouch fish for individual Soviet cinema workers
to want to tcke tho risk of getting to know him), when
he wes invited to see filma a¢ the Union, 4¢ appeared that
m6 one took the trouble of expleining the plot and no.one
7 really respected him, : e|
tee LAWSCE has now returned to the U.SeAs but (VuADuCT)
haa no idea of chat effects his experiences im the Veh. BeBe
may have hed om hime

 

N-O-T-I-0-E,
The attached S
‘ ‘ inforinat ior

ee”

 
  
 

peu complervior

28th Noveaber, 1963s
SAAR ANDRE RMR

 
