 

 

 

page 3

6. On February 27, VWOROSIY called (Ricifi] and, speaking English, reiterated
hia presyious invitatios, suggesting 8 dinne? on March 2 (Saturday), When
the (i'@ refused, pleading another e » VOROMIN suggested the following
wonday’ (waren 45 at 6130 p.m. vhich the[f"af accepted. On Monday thefi'slealled
at the VORONIN's address (LAanrotegatas 1) D 52). The apartwent was very
glocey...m television had been turned on to station Tallin. if jeryptically
remrbed that it vas bed for the V's little girl. Mra. ¥ let this go by vithout
retort. Drinks vere brought in - vodia for the men and tokay wine for the

wonen. After an hour or so of getting acquainted with V's wife and child,
stayed for dinner. Mre. V was restless all the timo GOLUB

@OLUS apreared and

waa around. (WUE Joaia that he bed worn a stick pin in his lapel and

his wife hed worn @ large dinner ring, Just in case they had to defend elves.
The ‘g)hed already begun to be nervous.) During coffee, OOLUB asked! feo

te relate to them theLife of an average Anorican. (Bjtried to tell the life of
&n average Bev York business mar ani both VWORONIN and GOLUB seemed interested
+ grid impressed. OOLUB brought up the subject of the atomic bomb. He asked vhy
_ the U.S, had dropped the, bomb on Japan. “You vanted to keep us away from that
part of. the vorld!” (Eetlinjat tempted to give unbiased ansvers, Both ¥ and 6
 ‘pecams quite vociferous and qxcited during this conversation. GOLUB began to
refer to hie watch. He said his wife was expecting bim and at about 2130,
after a short private consultation with ¥, be left. However, before he took
wave, be said to HECHT “our talks were so interveting; we'll have to go
for a weekend trip sonsvhere aa? near future, and eect must get together
for a 6 hi tima soon, This vas an intenti exclusion of
re. ea) feats] then invited OOLUS to visit the (imcfiS7 put GOLUB refused
the Tavitation and devarted. VORONIN then came out with another invitation to
the(Emcer'g 5 visit the VORONIN's again, At this point [agtintjrelt the time
hed com: to end this one-sided gams. He told Mr. VORONIN that he had been
very pleased with his trip to the Soviet Union, that the impreasions he had nov
of the country and people ami the V's and Mr. @ vere nice ones - eo far, but if
things went along as they seemed to be going, thia impression might turn into
a bad cps. -V vas very put out. Mrs. ¥ weakly put in, “Your people arv just like
our people, I understand.” V added, “We surely will see you once before you 4
leave." (ca ante he hoped so, ani-aince it vas 2300 hours then, thefmucer’a|O6 ;
left. . :

7. Cee reat that Mrs. V had told hin her age vas 33; VORONIN’s 37.
wre. VOROXH come to Central Asia from Hungary when a small child of 5.
She vas brought up {in Russia and met VOROMIN when they vars both pursuing
a career in the srta - che ballet ani be the violin.Ou(HECRE surmised that her
father aust have been mixed up in the revolution at that time and was perhaps
in exile.) VORONIN admitted to membership in tho CP, but his wife shrugged
her shoulders and said that she vas not & eonber. She displayed little caution
in ber remarks about the Soviet Union ani appeared dissatisfied with things

ia geoscral.

8. _at{ererta)reply to his query as to vho ovned the apartment in vbich
the(HECHT}s lived, QOLUB asked, “Ie {t John BURMIKEN?", and added, “Ba is an

unierstanting capitalist.”
74-0000

 

i
:

eran &
uuu pate

; ob
9. (luca described GOLUB os a man with a great sense of lumor, very

quick, very ehsrp ani witty. Ho has a great sense of mmmor and constatnly
refers to himself as “I'm a Uorainian.” He is a child psychologist. He has
served in Vienna, Waruev, Budapest, Bucharest, Sophia. Hs ts about 37, short,
wollefed (stocky, black hair straight ani trushed back, big flashy snile,

| Lote of vhite teeth (may be false), brovn eyes, very vell-dreased. He has
@n English tailor in Helsinki and appears each time in a changs of vardrobe.
Ho vearn double breasted suits - Western style. His main sport is skiing.

Ra bas a strong poverful handshake, piercing artificial glance, ia very wt

excitable, flirtatious, and the I-movwit-all type. Be loves to eat and
shakes his head from side to side when he talks. He ie abowt §°3-1/2"
with glistening, clean-shaven skin. He looks like a Ukrainian peasant, but
his conversation implies that he is well-cdusated and knowledgeable on
diplomatic business, Marxism, and current events involving the Soviet Unton. His
khowledge of life beyond the borders of the Soviet Union is meagre. Eis table
manners are fair.
: po
10. Since the last ‘meting, (MECH eet GOLUB once by accident on the street,

GGLUB was alighting from a taxi vith ladies, and upon catching sight of

Ob [HECHT ha appeared flustered and in a hurry to gt avay. Unable to avoid an
encounter, he morely asked what was nev and sportively, but soft-tonguedly
waid, “I'll give you a bribe not tell ny wife.” The two ladies appeared to

be Russians, :
14-00000

. . ; : ae TAbd 0}
, a . SECRET 6 zm

in
4
1
\

had lef Finlasd, it might have led to the discovery of Soviets who woald
pler up the eotedt eloeware, Should the Soviets have decided on a long
ranga period of qaltivation, /FEGMH\ thought over these tw reasons, adding,
“I eucrose the possibility of defestion La always there, too

5 . way," tut eaid that be 414 sot regret Baving brokes off his relations with

; VLG: aad VOROWTH sisos be waa bere to concentrate on his ew work and did
bot care to bseass iswlvad in any otter typo of activity, partiealarly
involving ¥-@ type Soviets whose Intersets were obvicaaly profescoseml)
along another lise.

i Q
5.[Ricrplwepentedly eamizated, “itat aauld the Soviets pusibly wad

: froa mei ead“it was apparent from tho ecuversstion that be me mavare of
of *rofesror| Artin LOWLATTS) whom opt vringiag up ia Ais coaversations,
He seked no questions regard Log 73,1 vat readily offered the infornation
wich he hed heard froa OUWB in as Gadh detail aa ho could recall, He seened
eurprised that COS kept referring to thie individual and appeared te search
for a coement fra © singe he meationsd OCOLUB's astonishment at reesiving
a letter writtes wat Hj froa the States. Sines Uehline was unavare of
the lett-r, she meraly asked whether COLUB bed alaborated on its sonteata,

which ne had aot,

6. It wa 0f de Sat" impression that COLUB was mich wore important than

his. diplosatie ruk implied boosase of his air and bis deaisoeping behavior
foward VORONIH end hie laferiers at the Conmlate, He aloo said that

TLUS wis am iadivaal of mere thas average cwning, bots in convervation

and action, Purthernsre, he ie a reasonably young ean (37), $0 hive bad co

nany importent Iron Cartain postes as a nattor ef fact, (kK declared, ke -

had volocd thie impreesica te COLUB folluwiag a rundown on pass poctat

“Tou met bo an important mn [ to which COWS replied Jomlrly, "Tesh,

yeah, very Lape dead Se At eay rate, from his Hyber rank on the diplamatic

list end fron/KscITeedeseription, he does appear a Little higher level than

ARQRBSHOY who seooedeted wlth John i, BODGSON,

1. Since (RGED appeared tohave held his ow tn his verbal badgeriage
with “CLUB aad VOROSIN ant sine he left Little dasbt ca the part of these

two Soviets that he was intelligent cnough to amiicipate their motives,
neither has attespted te get ia touch with his eingo the owning of Hard &
whan thay aeeueed Kin of subeitting to an*imerioa Tren Cartein® Say dealariag
that umder the eframsteness be could not be their fricads,

6. Prefessce@ Ga of tered te call Hillixer immdistely if the Soviets
atteupt to reac thelr matast, .

. ot
9. Another Pulbrighter, Or. [iifred LEVIN alse a rescareh seholar in
ur. ion histery, will leave for the USSR oa ipril 4, It WALL be interooting
to learn whether or aot he, too, will bs contacted and hy whom, eineo hie
fame lmalics an etiaical bactground for whieh YOROWLH hea epenly and on many
Occasions expressed hha distaste. . :

SECRET

Jago P. KLehline
Faal: 2 os
Jietediutiont Yo wh: 2. fa: 2 aa

 
[toto tong

 

2 NTC mere mer ene © smart BoE TE

SECRET

an
am [Snubs
23
62-165
Jefrerteef fis C3ei6-2- (0S
Lat f’
. 9 April 1957

lef, .
Onlef of reuse]
STAPION/OPRRATIONS Db

REDCAP - Professor [avid Hoeht's Contact with
Grigery Ye. COWS .

oO’ Subseqaeat to receipt of « brief newr.adu (Enel 2) fron
vr, Grant ey cael; Onief ef the Political Ssetica, regarding Fulbright

Pro fea, 1s eontaet with GC: ry Ye, COOLS, Ulliker wie asked
by. ta pee fe fer Professor WT] to eal at the OOACTO fa- .
lls thet be could bo debriefed' in detail,

ete.

2. Prefecsor(§ afriend ef Hilliker, is a Russian apeaking research
roholar whose interest 19th century Russia. He is engaged in post-doctorate
rovearad at the Slavia Studies Departamt of the University of Belaiat under
« Pulbright etipomd, In carly Pebrusry he end his wife made a trip to the .«,
Soviet Union unter the auspices of Intountst at their om_expmes, (HECHT)
adtresa ia Melsiakt io [Hictalahdenketu 12 C 69 (tel: 33789), on apartacnt
building owned. ty Kr, Joba NURMIMEN, husband of [¥aMBRACK/1's} Pimish tutor,
ani a wealthy Relsink’ ehipping man. It.wie MrOUNURMINAS sho reeoamended the
KAL-VALA Travel Agensy through wich Mscifl arranged “is trip to the USSR.
(-hyiet Congulate offielals have discouraged the use ef this agency to Russia-
hound Americans for mstated reasons.) ‘

ie;

J. On the afternooa of April 4, Professor/HEGRT] at Hillikerts request,
celled at the latter's offices whera he we introduced’ to deme P, Kiehline
whom Hilliker gesersualy presented as OD.CID's Russian expart. After thanking .

OCHECIM for giving us Bie ties, Kichline took him te ber own offiee and obtained

the enalosed report. .

ob

: b.OTnis me ned 6 ter-duratioa courtehip by the Soviets aainly
because(HicHT}etose it that way, it the end of the iaterviex, be eaid that
he had consulted severe] tines with hie wife sad bad indeed debated whether or
not earry on tbe game. Thea he pointedly asked Kiehhime, "Gould you tell me
in Juct whet way I could Baw been of help hed I eontiaued?*? Kiehline -
offered tuo responsi one, it would have aided OD.CID ia knowdag end comparing
Bodys oper of the Soviets in their appresenes to Weotersers (imericana,

in particular, re ia Nelainki) and two, if the courtehip peruisted until be

SECRET |

  

»,

iTO CHA
a i Use Cnly
Do Not Reproduce

KS
74-00000

oo . . 92

eo Sra mei 2 toformalzea3
. api bet es ”
4 yago i
7 ; 9 Apr 1957
2
7? pe -
° Interview with Professor /Payid HECHZjon 4 April 195

Le At the ond of Sumary after making prolintnary arrangemests and

. : filitng ctitpyiea fom threugh the KALEVALA ‘fravel Agency {5 Holsinzi,

; Professor ffECH)and his wife vere instructed to call at the Goviet Consulate
to coeck on the progress of their visas. Mr. OOLUB was the first official to
vhom they vere referred; he seemed to knov in advance all the details of their
proposed trip and what they really wanted. OOLUB said that tha visa vaan't :

ready but agked that thay coms back on the following paca GOLUB did not !

speak English and asked if it yould bo all right vith [ERCHT] to speak through : .
a French interpreter. When(BEcitfisaid that he spoke Russian, OOLUS's interest ,
perked up 4 he be gan to chat quite freely. GOLUB then ehanged bis mind

ani told (i }that he vould fix him up with a viea right tben and be vould

: not have to coms back the folloving Tuesday. After the procedure vas ¢on-

; pleted, ani (HEtHi] and his wife got up tc leave, GOLUB said: "Do come back

i after you get back and let me know what you guint of your trip." At this point

he mentioued that another Professor, (Arthur WATER] @ person for vhom he had
o very high regi, had taken 6 similar trip to the Soviet Union not too long

'
j
i ago. Ha said that mich to his surpries be had received a letter from
i

 

‘arter Bis return to the States. He then related a sad. story concerning
( CLOBHATERS who, be seid, bad been chosen a6 & representative to a mathematician's
i O¢Songresa in ths , but his firm wouldn't cough up the monsy for [LpBuTER's}O&
: trip. Bince did not know(LORVATEA) bs wade no coment, and he and his
: wife left the Confulate. . Ob Do

i : . ig “
2. on the morning of February 3, (GEN) end his vife left by train for
i Moscow where they spent 4 days. Thoy then vent Leningred for three days

and fioally came tack via train to Tvlsinkt. mentioned only one incident
: of note ~ in Leningrad ~ concerning telephones books. Ha said ha had promised
H a friend in the States that if he had a chance he would cali the frients friend
‘ : in Leningred and pasa greetings. When ho asked for @ telephone bock in
i Leningrad, he was tald that they hed all been los Ro one appeared to be
t belpful in locating one for him, end, finally, decided to try to bribe
‘ the guide into gatting his one. The g@ilde vent into a closed cabinet in the
i pote) lodby and produced one...an old 1951 edition. “YHECHT called the pvber
‘ . appearing alongside the friend's name ei a voice anavered on the other end.
Re did not to be the gentleman vhon[EECHT wis calling but said he
ykoew the man; was trying to got in touch th, thet be vas wall, ota.)
etes, but that be wasn't available. The call ended there and (HEcHfdid not
presa the matter further. OG

(a .
3. A week after (MEH retin (February 19), he and his wits decided
to atop by the Soviet Consulata to give Goliis their impressions of their trip.
: A nev doorman vas there this tine. There was no previous call announcing
that(CHT]and his wife vere couing to the Copsulate - they Just stopped in.
COLUS eppomred very pleased to see thom. x recounted the pleasant aspects
of his trip and said that he and his wife enjoyed, it very mich. After a bit
of chit-chat ebout the trip, OOLUB asked to meet MECHT/egain...Bov about that
samo night at the Adlon Restaurant! Professor(HiCHT}eaid politely that he
OG

or
Car aen

Shunk

 
 

 

- wae very witty.

  

 

SECRET

page 2

would like to aee him again, but perhaps the Palace Restaurant vas more
convenient, ami they arrangnt to met at J o'clock that night (February 19)
@t the Palace Hotel. OCLUS stated that he vould bring along the Cultural
Attache becaw spoke Brglish and thus vould be able to talk to

[xmcur's} wife Gerdhute dows not speak Russian.)

&, The night of 19 February, a very snovy night,( Hand his wife appeared
at the Palace Hotel at eight o'clock. G. was there alone. @ excused the
Cultural Attache VORQKIN (Turi 3.) who had another engagement and could not
com. G asked if[M Would oot prefer a private dining room. (i{jreplied, “As
you Like’ and they took a private dining room. @ appeared in @ good mood,

Be talked about his vife who vas in the hospital and blamed

ths Finnish climate. Be sali sa did not like the climate, the country or

i.* the Finns and added, "My job here is to fini a fev pearls among swine{"

Dinner vent on till 1] a.m. = covering a discussion of politics, economics,

Das Capital, Goviet-American foreign policy, American foreign palloy and the

Hungarian situation. OOLUB's statement on Rungary? “Bungary is even a greeter

tragedy for us Russians than.the Rungarians. I've lost a great friend who vas
As long

killed in an attack. The poor Hungarians had to call in ths Russians.
@s the Americans have bases al) over the world, wo have to com in lest anarchy

occur and the Americans come in.” He vas very down on the Amprican Rnbassy.
“Wa Russians have a beautiful Bbassy; we have many gatherings; we invite
Anericans, but they are alwsys busy. You bave an Iron Curtain here. Be pb
was also equally dow on USIS: "They are alvaya lying.” OCLUB queried [Hlas

to the amcunt of M's stipend. ie: told him aince it was open knovledgeS [H)later
offered to pay the check (10,000 Finomarks), but GOLUS refused to let him touch
it. On Stalin, GOLUB's only comment was: “Stalin is the trngedy of Russia.”
All through the dinner, GOLUB'a eyes continually, strayed to[HECHT's/ wife, and
he paid ber many courtly compliments through/fizcl f} He spoke Finniah to the
waiters. At about 0100, they left the hotel restaurant and GOLUS headed for
the #5 trolley vhich he said would tabe him hone. Before they parted, hovever,
he took two tickets to the opera Boria Gulonoy out of his pockst and presented
then to the /EECHT'S) complinents of VORONIN. [Earp] accepted the tickets.

. : &

5. On February 21 at the presentation of Boris Gudonoy, the [Hiaeeet"'g vere
mot by COLUB who showed them to their seats right beside his own,.A boy
sitting on,the other side of then kept ataring at OOLUB ani the| HECHT Ys untit
fteally(B fflsaid, “Do you knov who this boy is vbo keeps ataring at wat"

G boas that it was his businesa to mov people, ani that thie boy was a Gerwan
kid in the employ of AERO. During interniasion, OGLUB called VOROMIN end ir
insolent tone of voice directed-hin to join them.cbIntroductions vere made.
VOROHIN spolbs English. After the performance ,(HECHT,).vho hed decided that

thie should perhaps be the last. meeting, hast. thanked his hosts and started
te leave. OOLUB ignored his ges cand quickly suggested a walk. VORQMIH -
Joined in at this moent. vhan[HRCiff) beaitsted, GOLUB taunted, “What's the,
matter, are you afraid of baing seen in public vith uaz” At this,/E gave

in, and the four started on a short evening stroll. Before thay parted again,

’ VOROHIH said, "X would love to have ys com over to my place and meet my wife

and little daughter,” and asked for/H's jtalepbona number. (acer vas Bon-comnitta)

OG

 

 
