 

  

   

 

    
  
  
 
      

: Jose “LOPEZ. Legon: -
Nap :

 
 

“Jorge” A. PERRAMO!
t @°financtal advisor.
ily with propaganda and

 
 

‘He assiste’

 

on BARQUIN wits approached by the ELC to become”
ailitary advisor, Because of differences of opintens.
UIN. dociined ‘but. agreed :to ‘act as Counseloroor advisor.
_MARTIN ELENA ‘was later approached to fil] the same
Position but refused. PERRAHON is the unofficial military
Tepresentative 1 Washington. . a

 
 

 

   

 

i

Poe _ Other leading personalities of thé ELC are Duney PEREZ

: Alano, Elvio RIVERO Limonta Roberto COBAS,: Alvarez, Raul

i BARANDELA, and Manolo TOYOS.: ;

GINANCES -

Funds are to be forthcoming from Cuban extles to initiate
i . . the movement and later on to solicit money throughout the

| _U, 8. and other countries.

i :

! . Cuban exiles over 21 are to be subjected to a poll tax
I . in return for which they. will have the privilege of voting
uy for members of a Council.of Liberation, which would have

i” ee primary. direction ofthe guerrilla army,

°
STRENGTH AND MEMBERSHIP

. There are contradictory reports.ags to the number of members
and manpower of the ELC. 26 members have beun identified,
: . -.» moat of whom are..members of the "ORGANIZING COMMITTEE”. It
i “~* ‘bas also been reported that the ELC has 40 officers and 200

" pemberg in the Miami area.

.. _ Tho ELC has branches and representatives in Tampa, Puerto
Rico and in the New York/New Jersey area.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

. The purpose of the ELC ta to have an eventual series of
commando type attacks on Cuba , with the cooperation of the

° °

‘financial -

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
round Use Only

  

4-Decesber 1962 _

| -EJERCITO. LIRERTADOR DS CUBA
(LIBERATION ARMY OF CUBA)

   

a

In May.1962.a document of basic principles and status -
of organizing. committee was drawn up in Washington by
Ernesto BETANCOURT, Jorge BERUFF and Jorge A. PERRAMON, A
council. of 25 prominent Cuban nationale was to be selected.
The council in-turn would name a group of seven or-nine men
to superviée and execute directives of the council.

The organization was formed on the premier that neither
the United Statea nor OAS ‘intervention ‘promises 8. solution
to the Cuban problem. A second premise is that. an internal
uprising 18 unlikely without external assistance,

‘Phe original thought of the organization was not to ask
‘the US government for-any assistance, simply toleration of
it's activities. This group of Cubana wants complete control
oftheir operation, and will make all key decision, including
time and nature of landings and guerrilla operations.

: The original plan of the ELC was to get. forces ashore
in Cuba in timé to interfere with the sugar planting that
must be done duitng the summer months. This would hapten
CASTRO’s downfall. This plan was not accomplished.
HEADQUARTERS

The headquarters of the ELC is listed as 585 Riverside
Station, Miami, Florida, :
LEADERS ©

The, following is a list of the loading representatives
of the ELC: . .
490009

ae
os

 

 

 

 

 

i
}
i

 
 
 
  

“ACTY ITIES

 

 

 

 

   

 

“ Cubaa- underground, ‘to. encourage and nesiot in the overthrow .
or CASTRO. 2 .

 
  

othe: “Counet2 of Ly bara fon".
the Council of State. and would ‘appolntaa pros

 

: visions ‘president. ‘of the. Bitte own choosing. -

“at appeara: ‘that the ELC ie lacking: ia. funds
4al.aseéts such as boata, arms, etc, and does

not’ appear to be an active orgaadsation,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

00.
