 

    
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
  

" perhaps it would be better for

eee ge te I i nt
r Te = ery casera:

 

CONTINUATION OF a 3
: | @ra)ats

OSPATCH

 

   
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  

consented to go when ehe heard other Americans were going to be there, She
adaitted that she was curious to seet Golub also. There are to Statiog or

HBFINCH traces on Identity B. if

& We soree with Heacjucctcra that we do not have much to be gained
from the continuation of this contact. Our dossier is pretty well Mlied
with bio data on Golub as it is, and if Ke wishes to defect, which we doubt
considerably, he won't need her help, However, we fee] that to have Gxys,
completely pull a reversal and stop the contact would only arouse his
suspicions that she may be receiving instructions from some oyteide: sources
Since Golub now has stopped his original provocative tone towed (A805 and
the Soviet interest in Costille has slowed down, at least for the present,
5 to continue seeing Golub, as long as he
does the inviting, until she leaves Helsinki, (Her stipend runs owt in
January.) Since school is in full swing her free time will be linited, and
she will have more of an axcuse te slow down hen ‘contact with Golub,

Willies Costille -
9 October 1959
Metribution

3ryeSR w/Idena u.s.te
2 .

tan ead eh OG

we

 

lorsver ry

- CT ecreece

i
i
!

 
 

74-0000

    

 

 

   
   
 
 

7 2 . nee
fA . aa a) ~~
ae \
ht . on enn
. CONTINUATION OF ‘ : eriew sacs
DISPATCH Fe eee

   
   

OG ae AUG 27 tax9
romtim ar (ater so was) = | (O8 poc. micro. s> | ~
fine acdraces (309-8 Stanford Finiage) |
. nferd, California
Age: 2h
marrieg.. 06
Sea of (Rudolph Ko2stt} Finnish
foreign Minister Jog
TORTITY Br (Gisko Targus at) aA miei
boas Bohiazrets Saskkina, Karelin.:
ri :
os
pot
7 | t . fe

 

ld OF ROUT ED TIO Cea ANC ATOR ~s
Be AcEN ews

es Re owe i an nee
74-00000

 

 

 

  
 
    

 

 

DISPATCH

 

 

 

  
 

FROM
gyn etlet of Station) ed
iE

REECAP = 9% Eee Su
Costd Lle-AEPAWNEE/S~Golub‘Contabt Lane
nti Pm me ae £G 2 6

     
   
  

MICRO

 
  
  

   
   

 

 

 

RIT

 

INDE ELMS CaN aE
BY eae £0 a

    

A

[ernijov7, 2 September 2959

eka ee

    

Cort ke

  
 

1, Reference dispatch has just been received, and we wuld like to
bring you up to date on the above relationship: : : . oe 4
&. Follow up tof przs During the evening of & Septesber, |
Golub did not mention his’ previous proposal to have Subject of DIR |
42521 teach Soviet diplomats English. Subject on one occasion
stated that she was planning to teach English on Finnish TY and .
that it looked es if she would have a busy season teaching. Golub —
did mot pick this up, and the subject was not returned to. The entire
évening was quite uneventful, and it was spent talking about musics,
(The Subject of dIR 42521 will be dealt with by separate dispateh.)
Since that evening Golub has only phoned Costille once and this was
on @ business matter, Two Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at
the time and were applying for Soviet vieas thru Golub, They. had pre«
viously been in the American Consulate inquiring about the possibility
of obtaining a Soviet visa in one or two days, Costille advised thea
to go directly to Golub and make their request, which they did. Golub
phoned Costille to state that he would give them their visas as soon
as they made advance Intourist reservations. When they did this, Golub
immediately gave them the vieas.. Golub's and Costille's pathe crossed
once again on 15 Séptember during a Consular Corpa lunch. This was a
fairly large gathering and Golub and Castille did not have much opportunity
to talk, However, Costille gave Golub two tickets to the forthcoming
Leonard Bernstein concert in Helsinki, as Colub had previously mentioned
to Costille how auch he wanted to go. Golub appeared to be quite grate<
ful for the tickets, and then atated he wanted Costille and Subject of
DIR 42521 to come back to his apartment soon to hear some more good
music, Mr, Johanan Bein of the Israeli was standing near by, and Golub
extended the invitation to him and wife also. No date was set, However,
from 4 September to the present, Colud has not phoned Costille for lunch,
which is a new record for him, as heretofore he has called at least once
aweek, He has either been too busy, his interest is waning as far as
Costille is concerned, or he io, as Headquarters suggests, planning to
“ turn Costille over to someone else. : . :

b. Costdlle contact with Viktor ZEGAL: If Golub is. planning’ to
tam Costille over to someone else, Zegal seems to be the most obviouse
Zegal haa had every. opportunity to date to start the contact, but he
has not picked up the ball yet. As we have mentioned previously, -
Costille met Zegal first at the latter's informal cocktail party. How
ever, tho invitation came through Golub. Zegal was friendly to Costille
bat not any sore so than to the others at the party. At the second -
meeting, a Soviet Eubassy sponsored informal reception for the American

_ Babassy, Zegal was again polite to Costille but showed no undue interest
in hia. On 7 September, both Zegal and Costille happened to be at the
same sauna party given by a mamber of the Netherlands! Pabassy. During
thie party the conversation turned to music, and Zegal mentioned that
he had a large American record collection but that records in Finland were |
too expenaive to buy, Ne asked Costille where he ordered his records and
if Costille would mind ordering some for hie. Costille said he would be
glad to, egal happened to be at a small luncheon on 10 Septexber given
again by a member of the Netherland's Hubassy, At this time Costille
loaned Zogal two racord catalogues from which he could make hie selections,
Costille has heard nothing to date from Zegal on thiss

    
    
    
 
      
   
   
   
      
      
       
      
       
      
        
      
   
   
      
    
      
        
        
    
   
   
   
    
     
      
     
   
 

104-10172-10292

 

 

 

 

a,

al e

 

 

 

 

  

cp of Se
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET e _!
PRD NTE Is he stance of somments or eudetatnsn of extine .
- . teaen Me cover sheet of be devtrered when the
Rips ; Secwment «Fed, ”~.
R i} AN COMMENTS
; ~

RETURN To TO Cia

 

MICROFILM |

  

 

 

sea soy

AA? gee
AVS DE td '
! e Reproduce
DOC. MICRO. SI € ar, We coal oe
fe ermal CEO a) |. ,
. ae , .
4. . f=
CT bleezes
Me ML Xe lead Nee) Lzeh 0
ie)
Cf: [. a te | a
pee Ze ~ :
Aa] a ope ee.
pats OF vi ” rae]
; H TGA 5 9-13: Ido not feel that Costilletd
i fo ode explanation of meet ing arrangements with -
aa) 5 makes then any more secure than wd: t
ad guessed) His apartment, his car, in
PWD! D5” the quiet of the evoning! Para 7 of dof
hs I still obtains = RIS could have become} «4
aware of their meetings & the clandestine

nature of tha meetings, Also, I question
the security of dropping her off at tHe t.2

     
 

 

 

 

bus stop nearest her apartment. If thd RIS
has geen any of these contacts, the vary
meeting arrangesents would serve to eqn
iA; firal 2 as an agent of Coatille = no /normal
| voy-girPrelationship, 1¢ a social on: .
Sa would go to these lengths unless therg “+
was a spouse in the background; it wold
therefore have to be clandestine, ,
bb ae
1D.
fo ce Lhe Ad: ice
52° 7 UL
io. i BS ees -01, Jon , ¢€ ‘
| De reel & xe A) fr lg
17. { | ray wstere Ne ot c z
oe _| H c (ethillec £ ops 8
ir) i
: ! . it? at Py A Lee hy ese
: i ;
got pa of Tl ccs  ¥ ’ Lhe G| eo
: poo [K€ Ol corte Le tu ChE
aan —— i— wd ru Pe aa L e
eee “>
to RIOT ; 1800u | wy wh ceo lf S :
‘ 5 . . ' @
Ae yodumy aooreact i pi i 06s eo wonR '
et 1 i ow
UATE Ree me, a! , tk EE ets CAR wen? RU eee s
: poo . 2a @ H
i - ones ow

[yrrsfostss
t

 
 

 

   

     

CONTINUATASN OF
DISPATEN

 

    
  
  

 

  

 

  

€. Goledts poesible departure from Helsinkit At the Consular
Corps lunckecn on 15 September, Golub once again mentioned to Costille
that he would like to be assimned to New York City and even hinted
that he had been offered the job as Consul at the Soviet Consulate in
New Tork City. It 4s known that Golub is studying English in Helsinki
from a qualified Russtan-English language teacher. He also mentioned
that if assagnad to ths uUnitea states, he would be given intensive
language training in Moscow. Costille aleo asked him if his wife had
returned from Kescow as yet. He waved his hand as if in disgust and
stated that it was a pity but she was never coming back, This
“estrancezent™ from hie wife has never quite rung true to either Costille

. Qor to(h WS, She hes never liked the climate in Finland and hag been
rather sickly ever since she has been here. It may be that she is
merely waiting for Golub's return to Mogeew rather than move back to
Helsinki, Golub has also mentioned to AS 5,fhe possibility of his going.
to New York and has hinted at pus being in Hoscow by Decenber.
. . Oe -

a, Golub contacts with (ERy5: felw has bevn seeing [ik/5 about once
a week for their language Teseon??Aeds is learning Russian, and Golub
English. (Golub also has a professional English teacher.) During these
sessions Golub has not once returned to his conversations of 23 July in
which he derided Americans or hés he made any implications that (ARY5 02. -
might be reporting on her contacts with hin? ‘5 atated that elnce this
date the pressure seems to be off and that Golub has never raised his
suspicions concerning her knowledge of Coatille or the fagt that the
American Babassy had become aware of Golub!s contact with /5$@Golub's
conduct wi 5 has still been above reproach and not one romantic ~
overture has been made, Although they still discuss politics, art and
music, Golub sway has made an effort to keep away fron extremely con~
troversial topics and has refrained from making his usual derogatory
comments about capitalies and the.U. S. When the relationship first
began, he did not cose to bring up these subjects, About three weeks
ago, Golud. invited 3“Iden A and his wife, who, are Fulbrighters herg
and good friends of Ey Piteoa Gtantors Univereity HA5Y5's roommate
{Iden B), Zegal.and Nikolay Makeyev or a social evening in Golub's

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
      
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
    
     
    
 

apartment, Gel setime has wanted to meet Iden A, who is the
son of a famous vermment official now li the States.
Iden A is here doing research on his father's effect lpelitics.

   

The avening was spent in polite conversation, ight drinking and dancing.

   

7 : O02 . :

2, As far as contact between Costille and (4/5 is concerned, it has been
kept at a minimum since her REDSKIN trip and she reported that she had met
’ Golub. ‘There are no regularly scheduled meetings, the date and time of the
next meeting being arranged at each previous meeting. Throughout the sumer,
meetings have been held about one in every three or four. weeks. They have
been arranged on different nights of the week. On these meeting? 5 comes
alone to Costille's apartment after 2000 hours, She takes a bus from the
University, xeich ts in the central pert of Helsinkt, to Costille's, which
is in a northern scburbSUG@EY5 also lives in the same suburb about 2 kilometers
from Costille, She, therefore, would take the same bus to Costille's as
she would to her own apartment but would get off two stops later. After the
meetings, which usually last until about 2,00 hours, Costille drives her to -
the bus stop nearest her apartment. Costilie has never been to her apartacnts
At ne obae has any untsual activity been noted outside of Costille's apartment
or ne (axys's. For energency contact AMEy5 has been instructed to phone
- Costille at hie apartment from a public phone booth mentioning that she has
missed him. She never once has.identified herself on the phone, After the
phone call, she has croceeded to a pre-designated spot in the same suburbon
area where Costille zeeta her with his car. They then proceed to the outskirts
ef town, She is dropped off in thé same suburban area, The meetings have
usually lasted approximately 30 minutes. No surveillance has ever been de~
tected, This has crly been done three or four times. The same precedure is
used when Costille wants to ae KEX5 before the next scheduled: meeting.
Costille has only phoné@{ar}5 twice, and this was in late May during the .
REDGKIN debriefings. fa $ has been with Costille overtly only three tines

Qe

      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
       
    
     
        
    
    
     
     

 

 
  

74-0000

ore ros ae

CONTINUATION OF .
DISPATCH 4 : ‘Coral ch

 

 

or 04 ‘

fince fey sapped in Pinland inet Ganuary,] The first occasion was in

March af EE/3"s apartment. This was-the first time Costille net

ork, oat he 3'3 roomng! roonagte (another ulbrighter), and two Finnish students

were there (Subject Of (OFHA) 3811, Para 2, line 2; and,Subject of OFHA
3914)- The next time was in April when Costille took 5 out to dinner

and recruited her for the REUSKIN trip. The third time was at a large
American kmbagey reception in September for exchange students, Costille
talked with be for about 5 minutes there. . oe,

35°2This beings us te the iesue of Golub's motives and “Zeenttone re re-
carding G2 By Golub's actions on 23 July, reported in OFHa’ fhO32, it
seened he was on the way to a recruitment pitch. However, since that
date he has eased off the. derogatory comments about a erieans completely -
and seems to be satisfied in his meetings witn \ABY$ in discussing art, ate 6
and non-controversial political topics. If he had any suspicions sbout/. _
before 23 July, he has not raised them since in his conversations with. bi
lub must realize by this time that an out—and-out cold recruitment a ber te ;
O7ZMME/S would be futile, Bven though liberal minded;“A/5 in their discussions a
has been oritical of the Soviet system and has eikeciiee defended capitalien, |
If he ie attempting to get her involved in a romantic relationship whereby
he could exercise. some emotional control, he has moved very slowly. As we -
have stressed before, he has not made one romantic overture to her. If he
did, he would be most definitely rebuffed. We do not want to turn this
inte a "Dear Abby" letter, but feel that Goltb may be suffering from @
father complex. Golub and his wife have been unable to have children, and : ;
hs has mentioned that he would desperately like to. Whenever ie talke about mo
this he becomes noticeably distressed. Golub appears to be attracted to .
younger people, This was the case with his former assistant in the Soviet
\ Consulate here, Mikhail Lyubimoy, who was a young, intelligent, cultured .
Soviet. Golub frequently refers to Lyubimov mentioning how much he liked ‘
r him, what SDoaais ota they were, und how much he misses him, Golub's i :
. attraction 5 etarted when Lyubimov left. So given what we know about
2 Golub's personality, we do not think it too strange that he “likes her for 7
XL2 her mind.® We admit. that if Golub had the opportunity he would certainly
& attempt a recruitment or soms other°form of enbarrassment; but we also believe
& that his feelings are auch toward AY 5S that he would continue seeing FS. 2
long after hia operational interest had died down. We have not. forgotten
‘act that Goltb:is a shrewd intelligence operator. From the outset of ;
oe (Fs clus contact, we instructed her to use extreme caution, that Golub
. re than a Coneul, and that behind this friendly and gregarious nature,
there was a calculating, diabolical individual, and that she should at all -
costs avoid letting herself be put in the position where she would be sus~
ceptible to any form of blackmail, She was told that above all she should
do nothing to indicate to Golub any contact, with any American official.
' Because of this we have refrained from etviif (E)§ eny "requirenents" to
elicit from Golub believing that personality data would just come out
naturally, We have never give (AEY5 any canned responses to political
questions that Colub might raise feeling that she was clever and well-read
enough to answer on her own, We did not want to give Golub any impression | : '
that she was } being briefed on what to say and to ask. > ‘ .

4o In answer to pare 3 of reference, Costille has never been vo fhipore
apartment and has never met her roommate, Identity 8. Identity B wae an
exchange student in the United States during the 1957-58 academic years
Although! AEYS did not know the roomate before, the | rangement; for sharing
the apartment ‘were made befor 5 came Helsinki? A575 in the fali of
1958 met another Finnish exchange student Stanford/itio was a friend of

Identity B and pa § in touch with Identity B, Identity B did not meet
oA ARYS ‘etated that

\ _ Golub until the evening described in para 1.4. aboves
q Iden B is very antieRussian as she was born in what is now Sowiet Karelia
and was forced to leave her home during the war, She has to S75 that if

my she was ever seen out in the company of a Soviet she would autasatically lese
ze many of her Finnieh friends. She has often cautioned (Asy 5 about being seen
Sey out in the company of a Soviet diplomat too much. Tdeehey Bo was extrenely
( reluctant to attend the social function in Golub's apartment, but finally

 

 

 

 

en a aw apen ee eee :
. Lb tees Ae bone i
