 

[roa0tst-10098]

_ iT

 

 

ERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel . Page 13
Tuesday - 8 November 1977 .

 

a aI

48. (Confidential - DFM) BRIEFING Briefed Bill Miller, Staff
Director, and Earl Eisenhower, Minority Staff Director, Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence, on the 8 November 1977 Presidential finding.

Miller asked why this problem could not be handled overtly. I attempted ..
to explain this to him but he indicated he was certain the subject would...”
be raised by the full Committee when the Director briefs them on the
program. . . : . oe
. I teld Miller the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct had
some problems in ding the trip of Jocko Richardson, former Chief of =
Station, to Washington to be interviewed by that Committee
as well as the Senate Select Committee, I asked Miller if the Select Committee:
could do this ina secure manner. Miller said he thought they could and
there would be no problem in the Committee paying the expenses, I |
told him I would check again and let him know if this was necessary... vs
” Miller said he had talked to Chairman Daniel K. Inouye (D., Hawaii) .
about the classified FOIA affidavits which Senator James Abourezk on ;
(D., S. Dak.) has requested. Miller said the Chairman's position was.
; that we were not denying Senator Abourezk information, and had suggested ~
ho a reasonable means for him to examine the material, i,e., in the Select —
Committee offices. In Senator's Inouye's view, there is no reason for us
to try to be any more accommodating, -

I told Miller that General Camm, Directorof the National .
Intelligence Tasking Center, would like to meet with Select Committee -
staffers sometime during the week of 28 November and that we would like --—- °
to include staff members of both the Subcommittee on Budget and Authorization |
and the Subcommittee on Collection, Production and Quality. Miller :
agreed and said that he would set this up and let me know.

Regarding the scheduled briefing on Czechoslovak dissidents,” ao
Miller said Select Committee participants would be hims elf, Earl Eisenhower .~
and Ed Levine. : : te ORE

 

 

    
   

 

 

 

49. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Met with Mike Epstein, Senate —
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to advise him that Gary Cornwell,
House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, wants to review materials
given the Church Committee on tie Kennedy assassination, Epstein was
already aware of this and said Cornwell was expected that afternoon to
review the transcript of the Church Committee interview with an FBI
official who was in Dallas at the time of the assassination,

 
