 

;

v

\
mn nated

. : “Ns . _

 

: @. Moore bas just returned frow Viet Nam where be parlici-
pated in the combat operations of the American Special Forces iu Viet Naa. after
he bad gone through about eight munths of, training al the “pecial Forces schook
at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. sone understandinm: ef Moore's personality
ontained frou reading au interview between bia and the masazine U. =
Xorld Report. which was published recently. and copy of which was left with
Varia, Further understandings aod irpressiong of Moore may te obtained from -
reading his previously published twok about Jack Youngblood. an American who
participated in the events leading te Castro's overthrow of Hattista.

 

 

  
 

b. In my opinion. Moore has a burning desire to be known |
as a tough, two-fisted, rip roarins soldier of fortune. He has participated
in real war in Viet Naa, and has received hat is probably the best traiuing
in the world for guerilla fighters. namely. the UC. S. Special Forces. Tais
includes training as a parachutist. ife is inclined to bray. and is probably -
inclined toe interperate use of aleobul and wucen. and his judzement of in-

portant matters is probably inmaiure. However. he definitely understands
and is experienced iu wueriila fizntiug. is experienced in military operations,
and gust surely understand military security.

  

¢. He is definitely willing te help, but cannot contribute
cash directly; is willing to furnish the use of the cuest house on his property
for Limited periods of time. Is willing to participate and aid in an operation “og
to land people on the sczth. coast of Cuba, tut is not willing to commit the ue
of his Property acd facilities as a stagiug area for resupply in the future.

. a. Is willing to come to Miaxi, for conferences if bis
expenses are paid. - .

2. Site Evaluation

a Blue Hole is an , excel lent hartor; protected against
all weather. and with six feet of waier at ine bar. Is surrounded by very
steep slopes, heavily wooded. Dock facilities are presently very meager,
but could be quickly and easily improved. \o fuel for a boat is avaiiabie
at Blue Hole, aud at Fort Antonio {ihe closest source). the fuel available
is diese} fuel or automotive gasoline; no marine white gasoline is available
auywhere ia the area. This is a nost significant factor in selecting a
suitable boat. —

b. The nearest source of food aud other supplies is Port
Antonio; Fred Barrett. manager of the Blue Lazoon Club. orders and hauls
supplies from Port Antovio constantly, aud could deliver whatever supplies
were desired. Firearms and explosives are not ebtainable on the island.
They would have to be smuggled in illegally.

 

e. A small station wagon is available for transportation,’
provided expenses are paid by users. :

3. Miscellaneous, Information °

 

8. “A lecal nan. George Muurce. is reported to be a very. . :
experienced suall buat captain und one who has brought boats down frum Miami |” ie

    
 

 

1041016510004)

     
  

»
+
‘
~
wee

ee - Oo ™ _ eed
RETVAT

On Friday. 19 June. departed Yiami fer Kingston. Jenaicea via
' Pan American. leaving i at. 0400 aw arriving Lingsten via Uentezo Bay
at 10:15 AM. This flizht contiwes ty om to “an-tuan. Fuerte Hico- and Latin
passengers are commonplace. ‘Im passing through iumizration acd eusions. it
is necessary to give the immigration inspector the name of 8 apecific botel
or address at-shich you can be reached in Jamaica.

 

 

Obtained rental ear from itertz Car Rental and departed Lingsten
Airport ait 10:45 Au via Highway A-t for Fert Antonio of ihe inrth coast. Hish-
way (-4-follows the eoast around te easiera tip of the island. Tkere is auotber
route to Fort Antonio. over the neuntains. tut it is mot recomended, As shown
en the standard highway nap of the island. there is a suall cove avout seven |
miles east of Port Antouio desiguaied as “blue Hole”. The cove is rovzbly
200 feet wide by 500 feet long. and completely protected from the open sea
and weaiber, The cove is extremely deep. and is reported to pave @ sinimun
depth of six feet at the entrance. Tidal range appeara to be very snall. per~
tape one to tro feet. 1

sera
bo petennes ou verwemane brealibewee ates taente be

When I arrived at Blue ole. which is about 2-1/2 boura br :
road fron Kingston, Robin Moore was cot available; I went into Port Autonio ~
end secured a room at tke Bonnie Vue Hotel. I recurred to Blue Hole atevt

_ five o'clock and there vet Robin Moore. Ur. Xeore owns most of the land
surrounding Blue Hole. with the Jamaican goverment owning the balance. On

the beach facing the sea, Moore has built acd operates a bar-restauract which

he calls the Teahonse of the flue Lazoon. Yeis accounts for the couiusion
between Blue Hole and Blue Lagoon. Gu the side of the mountain descexding to.
éhe water, Moore has tuilt aod lives in a scall studio apartment. Ke also *
owns enother sual] house overlooking Blue Hole. Tais louse was oceupied tenp-
‘erarily hy a girl whe was introduced io me ag his fiancee. Uarvot Palzer. and ~
her wother, Rita Palner. They are supposed to retcrn to their bore in Vancouver,
B.C., about the end of june.

About five o'clock I introduced myself to Moore as a friend of
Antenio de la Carreras, and gave him the este with the recognition synbol. We
talked from five o'clock until about 7:30 at whieh tine ve had dinner aui ;
parted until the next worning at 11:50.

 

‘ I spent the night at the Boonie Vue Hotel and noted in passing ©
_ that aT. S, destroyer escort based at Guantanaze Bay was anchored in the:

ty harbor for the weekend, with the sailors being given liberty in Port Antonio:
: This seens to be acocmon occurrence. aud could perbaps be a source of inform-

tion about Cuban patrol practices along the south coast. | i.
: : 1

. Saturday worniug, 20 Juné. met Moore atain. and contimed our!
discussion of the previous day. Durirg our comersation. he introduced ne to
Fred Barrett. a native Jazaican (colured). wao is in ckarge of the operation
: ” of the bar-restaurant. 1 left Ur. “oore and Blue Hole about 2:00 otctock and
we . drove io kingston, catching the 6:30 fan tmerican flight beck to Mioni, via}
no Yentego Bay. . : : d
a Following ry two serious couversations with Yeore. plus gy {
- abservations of the wau hiuself. plus my recocoaissence of the site iiseif.:

I sutcit the followiug items of infomation as hein: of siguificance: . } .

 

crear tae met orca

4 ‘ roe .
toe
Be teenie eerie een TE TU MRR OTST ee

 

 

  
 

wu

    
 
 

 

a a : . con =".
Te iabiore Se en oEE TA Aad A a RES mew eS

yo

  
 

 

ou five different oceasions. He is reported to be available to rere 48
captain on a fishing boat. aud te train a crew.

  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
 
 

b. The S,S. Freangeline gails every two weeks from “iaai i
direct to Port Antonio, and could be employed for the delivery of supplies and
even a toat to Hobiu Moore.
oe. c. Fred Barrett. manager ef the bar-restaur‘nt. seees to i

° be a very capable wan. and for an additional 310 per week added to his regular

pay. would be quite willing to assist any operation, j
4

d. A‘Mr. Anihony Gason. a retired British aray colonel, |
is the Jamaica representative 1 TROJAN boats, at a place called Turtle Cove, :
between Port Antonio and Blue dele. :

e. The immigration chief for Jacsica is a man ty the name:
of George Eubcuks. who is the former chief of police at Port Antonio: “Moore +
claims that they are very close personal friends.

ad. Moore is acquainted with a ran ty the name of Mike Hedges,
who is a nephew of Burke Hedges, the .\cerican who becars Cuba's acbassador to
t Chile scne wears ago. ‘Mike lives in Kingsions and, if he is not a Sattista
: ae syepathizer. might prove to be a very valuable connection. The fazily is re-:
ported to be quite wealthy, and would establish an excellent cover. :

 

  

ue 4, Operational Considerations : i
: a. In order to avoid the use of significant nares. I :
Sustracied Moore to refer to anole as George hinz. and the operaiias of
landing hin in Cuba would be referred to as Operatiouhiug., The rest likely
scheme seens to be to establish @ suitable boat at Biue liole. with the cover |
story to be that it telongs to \serican frieuds of Robin Moore. Housrz is |
available locally for a limited camber of Cutans, with Moore being able to
accommodaie up to six on his own property. The local boat captain. Leorme
Munroe. could be employed as captain initially. to. train the Cuban crew in:
the local warine conditions, a3 well ay serving a5 3% effeetite sever. In >
ny opinion. it will cot be too difficult for persons io enter Jamaica without
difficulty, provided they know a certain ninizun amount of English. 3

ae

{ think a suitable locatiyn could te found for radio .:
transmission and reception facilities on the nills surrounding Blue Hols. but —
this would have to be examined by someone skilled in radio techniques. Yateo
would be excellent. 7 . j

 

zt . ; In summary, I would say that Robin Moore aud his property ana!

: . buildinss at Blue Hole would servé as an excellent tase of operatious. but that
: the boat necessary for the operation wuld have to be acquired and equipped

im the states and shipped down there, except for the renote pussiblility that;
a suitable boat could be found in kitmaton. 1 think o headquarters could be;
established at small cost through Nvore's good offices, and T think that Rud;
would be a good choice to coordinate the initial operations there. 4

       
 
 

 

ln

 

 

iD
i:
i
ii.
i
f
‘

PPA aI

 

pete
