1400000 ee - gg ae we

 
    
   
 
 
    
    
  

CHIBA Hido, | - MUCHAKU Seikyo,

_ EGAWA Taku, ~ © °°. HURAMATSU Hiro,
' FUJTY Nittatsu, ‘“NISHYO Noboru,

’ HARTYU Ichiro,

2 ROMGRA Koichi,’
- HOSHINO Yasusaburo, —

Teruo, .
OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko,
. SERJZAWA Tae, . ,
_ SHIRAI Shimpei,°
. SHINMURA Takeshi,
. KASAY Seiichi, . SHISHIDO Hiroshi,
_KATAGIRI Yuzuru, - SUGTURA Mitsuo, °-.
: KATO Shuichi, ' SUGIYAMA Tatsumaru, .
KAZAMA Michitaro, SUZUKT Masahira,

TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo,
WADA Nagahisa,

> KITAK OJI Satoshi, Munemitsu,
KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, YAMADA-Toshio,

- YANAGUCHT Kosaku,

and followed by: street marches,

a Democratic Society. }

"A full page advertisement in
‘ad in the Washington Post (3

_ USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia.

Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.
—— Te

SECRET

 

_ AWAYA Noriko,
. KATO_Yoshiro,

ODAGIRI Hideo,

SANO Kenji,
, SUZUKY Wichihiko,

_ Sone Beheiren activities and sccomplishmente:

Regular oncé-per-month demonstrations at a public ;
park in Tokyo, consisting of anti-American speeches

An all night TV "teach-in" with Beheixen. activist

. leaders, along with special guest, U.S. pacifist | :

Carl Oglesby (Chairman of the Students ‘for a a.
oe

the ‘New York Times
(16 November 1965), followed by another full page _
. April 1967), appeal- oT
., ing to Americans to stop the war in Vietnam. a

_ A "Meet ‘in. Conference of Two Nations for Peace in ;
| Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and . -
attended by. Beheiren activists and seven U. Ss. me
“pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), < a
'. and observers. from France, England, Canada, the ..

“A mass meeting in Tokyo. in October ‘i966, guest ;
' speakers of which were French pacifists, ‘Jean-Paul

IZUMI Taku,

 

SHIRO Saburo,
TAKAHASHI paketomo,

 

SANG ent

 

KOBATA Hanya,
SHIN NOHARA Seiei,
MARUYAMA Kunio, :
“ TSURUSHIMA Setsurei,
MURO_Kenji,
Yotaro,
SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu,
SAITO Masahiko. .

 

 

   
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   

 

a0

 

—— :

Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures. and peace” ,
' allies for such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

SECRET

  
   
   
   
     
  
   
 
    
 
  
  
  

RP ofessor Howard Zinn and the late A.J. Muste
of ‘the United ates, Claude Bourdet of France,
o and Thich Nhat Hanh of ‘South Vietnam. a

@. A mass meeting in Tokyo in January. 1967, ‘sponsored |

: -by Beheiren and featuring U.S. folk singer and . .

| pacifist Joan Baez. | cae
ay

a pe
bh. A continuing program of direct distribution of
- ” pamphiets to U.S. troops stationed in Japan,
and those coming to Japan on warships, and for
. rest or hospitalization from Vietnam, *
* Participation by two Beheiren activist ‘leaders oe
(Kyoto University professor KUWABARA Takeo and
. International House staffer TSUR Ki
‘taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend
a non-political Japan-America Congress on
‘Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam War -Speech’
rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University
‘in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful.
: attempt to invite Cassius Clay to visit, Japan
‘on behalf of Beheiren.

~ Continuing efforts to bring to ) Japan for a
nationwide speech tour on behalf of Beheiren, ©
‘Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, an effort that .
‘has not yet reached fruition bat | is still

: pending. : :

7 Participation in the Stockho1m . Saly 1967 “World
Conference on Vietnam," by sending two Beheiren
. “activist. leaders as delegates, .

- Cooperation ‘with the U.S. Quakers, pacitists,

~ and Earle Reynolds. in sending the yacht "Phoenix" Se

‘with medical aid, first to Haiphong, then on a ‘

.. Second trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but

~ -- failing to find landfall to deliver medical aid a
to either North or South Vietnam, :

Attempted, but ‘failed due to inability. to obtain.
U.S. visa, to send a Beheiren activist leader

m.
‘ (MUTO- Ichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the —.
21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War demonstrations,

       

 

 
   

anew group. to ) promote and aid defection: of | pe te
future U.S. “servicemen in Japan, Beheiren See 7 ,
‘Chairman ODA is now preparing to depart for. a
“ Europe in order to contact and study European ~
: anti-Vietnam War and. deserter organizations. ,

 
 
    
   
    
   
   
     
  
    
  
  
  
    

sa tmapeen eens ove copes eee

 

: 4, Japanese who have been identified as: active Beheiren
supporters or sympathizers; Coe. 7 i

YOSHIKAWA Yuichi - (Beheiren Secretary General) - - former
JCP member, © 0-72" Bt
ODA Makoto (Beheiren Cha rman) - popular novelist. o:
XAIKO Ken.- Akutagawa’ prize winning novelist, oO
“KUBO Keinosuke - film: producer and director. | oo
“TSURUMI Shunsuke ~- Doshisha University professor. :
SXSURUMI Kazuko - sister .of Shunsuke (their : father is the |
; date philosopher, Yusuke); :
/_FURUYAMA_Yozo_-_high. school. ‘teacher, sees
0 ichiyo =" ex~JCP (tried to travel.to U,. Ss. ‘to représent _
' Beheiren at October .21.demonstrations this year, but .-
». «was denied a visa tolenter the u. 8. +)
YAMADA Atsushi - ex-JCP. L 7
“FUKUDA Yoshiyuki -:playwriter.. aoe
‘TOMINAGA Ichiro - cartoonist:

 FUKASA usada - professor. ... Te
RRR eo iteusade ee designer... e
-PARADO Kaname ~ Christian leader,  ..
“YOSHIDA Kiju - film director. :
UMIHARA Shiin - writer, =. :

BASHIMOTO Hines - Buddhist Bitest, 7
‘HOTTA Yoshie - novelist. =... -° .

- scientist.

    
 
    
   
  
  
 

we pepennng nea

 

pin a terementen ca taeyeae maete e e eines nme wen

KUWABARA - professor at Kyoto University. , ne
. MOTO. joshi kee - assistant professor at Tokyo University. ‘

uro - professor at Tokyo University.

 

    

_ TRURGME os writer, . °. ;
SURUME Yoshiyule - employed at ‘International House in
- tokyo. . oe

   

senegal peomeree pene: Re mammmoring Seay eenpemd memes

\TERAY Minako, "= KGBAYASHT Tomi, YAMANISHI Eiichi,
“ANAT Fumihiko

ike, KUNO_ Osamu (Shu) , _ XASUDA Takeshi,. .
7. XURODA Hidetoshi, | YOSHINO Genzaburo,.
u, . MARUYAMA Masao, YOSHIWARA Koichiro,
FUKUTO! 0; MIDORTKAWA. Toru, OKAMOTO Taro,
. KURIHARA Yukio, MIZUSAWA Yana, MATSUMOTO Seicho, :
ANDO Jimbei, MORITAKI Tehiro;, _EI Rokusuke, oo

~ SECRET

 
14-00000

SEORED te

   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

 

YOSHIKAWA and Beheiren American collaborator
Brian Victoria met with Soviet Embassy Chief .

ess aché Nikolay V. Vasilyevich and... > «:
‘First Secretary Sergey D-Anisimov on CR a
30 October. This meeting was urgently wk
_ requested by the Beheiren side, to discuss :
. “an extremely important, extremely delicate
matter," without doubt the case of the four
. Sailors. .

 

 

. (ec) Beheiren-U.S. Pacifist Liaison: Beheiren.

: ‘contacted Dartmouth ‘University professor
Ernest P. Young, who flew to Japan on
. 8 November, apparently helped Beheiren -

‘leaders check out the bona fides of the
' deserters; and returned to the U. .S. , on 7
ii November. . :

   
  
 

(5)" Escape to Moscow: — The four deserters. tiirned..
up in Moscow on 20 November. The press has. |”
speculated, widely and unanimously that the four an
': left Japan on the Soviet passenger ship BAIKAL -
“on ll November, Again, there is no dissenting
opinion, overt of covert. The only mystery

| concerning this final phase of the Japanese
portion of this case concerns the mechanics of .
how the four boarded the BAIKAL and who assisted
in the maneuver, But with the sailing of the.
BAIKAL from Yokohama, Beheiren completed its
-most highly successful and beautifully executed
activity in its two and one-half year history. . | |
Not:: only did Beheiren smear the United States . ~ --
Government's image in Japan, gain a vast amount oo
of priceless publicity that will swell the ranks
of its Supporters and be invaluable in future -
activities, but Beheiren doubtlessly even made
a profit, financially, on this low budget operation-— :
‘donations are still pouring into Beheiren head- ~~
quarters from all over Japan to "help and Protect :
U.S. deserters." aan *: na

 

 

 

si pee ree rere peer fa eee ener ee en emeennenn nent ra es ee

oo (6) New Desex‘ters: The successful flight to.

* Moscow, through the good offices of Beheiren,

:) Has already stimulated one new would-be defection
. case in early December, involving two sailors ;
. . from Yokosuka U.S. Navy Base, and prospects are .
-| that. more will follow. Beheiren itself has tried: :
‘to keep the "desertion mood™.alive by organizing — :

cineca Tocris Aacel Matic adi Pada amnamtadton

 

“SECRET

 

  
   
    
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

   
  
   
     
 
  
  
  
 
 
    
 
    
   
 
   
    

(unique in Japan in this regard) to take the
- ball and run“with it. Beheiren ran all the way
and scored its most notable success since it was |.
- organized, (Paragraph 5 contains a listing of ©
‘Beheiren's more notable activities since its...
founding. Paragraph,6 is a partial listing of
. foréigners who have been in contact with or:
. _ cooperated with Beheiren, ) oo. ae

The Case’ of the Four Sailor Deserters and
eheiren /

' 21y. How It Started: The consensus of all .
-available press reports, with no recorded dissent;
-indicates that the four sailors voluntarily left _
their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing
around Tokyo's hippie—land, Precisely what
- personal grievances prompted the four to embark

-on this misadventure is not known. But, up to.
this point, the four could fairly be categorized
as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign
‘land, and due to get slapped back in line with
traditional Navy justice.when they finally :
decided to stop the fun and go back to the ship.
‘So far, this made their case far: from unique.

(2) How It Became an Incident: ‘Instead of
returning to their ship of their own volition
or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the
four made contact with Beheiren leaders.. Again,
press reports indicate that this was just a

es foincidence, that there was no pre-planning by.
“the four to contact Beheiren. There is no .
available reporting that indicates otherwise. | .
But, once the Beheiren people made contact, they
recognized. the potential immediately and moved
fast for, the kill. . . at.

(3) Beheiren Takes Over: When the four made
contact with Beheiren, it suddenly became an:
entirely different ball game. Beheiren had “
| everything needed to capitalize on this:. veteran ~
.. activist leaders who are experienced enough to
recognize the. windfall that had come their way; -
an apparatus that could provide hiding places
for the four; long standing liaison contacts : .
_ With Soviet Embassy officials for use in plan- = 2."
ning exit from Japan; solid contacts with .

a

SECRET a ee 2

 

  
14-00000

SECRET

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

reliable American pacifists with whom.the bona...
., fides of thé four sailors could be checked;
- money and organization to capitalize on the
-. Propaganda potential (such as preparing a : :
“movie film for the initial Beheiren press con- ~*
... ference announcing the desertion, prepared more —
|. Likely. than not by Beheiren stalwart KUBO
oo Keinosuke, an independent film producer); and.
> English speaking activists capable of sympathiz- -
ing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the Tae
: four young sailors, so that there would be no.
~ turning back. Looe

 

 

 

 

A eM A mate ee nt aie nei

 

 

(4) The Beheiren Apparatus at Work: While
many of the small pieces of this puzzle, which
would put the whole case in proper detailed
chronological order and eliminate speculation
on minor points, are still missing, the follow-
. Ing elements,. all part of the ‘Beheiren. Appardtus
., make up the bulk of the Picture:

    
 

S~ (a) " ‘Hide-out: When Beheiren got hold of
- the four on 26 October, they had to be
hidden out for the approximate two week.
period until their exit from Japan could
_be arranged, This presented Beheiren no
-- great logistical problem. A number of ;
. the Beheiren activist leaders have homes |=
well suited to harboring fugitives. For
‘example, Beheiren activist leader FUKASAKU_
Mitsusada has a villa hiddén away in ss
Chigasaki, which was used on the night of
'. 12 September for a meeting of about 20 top
-Beheiren leaders, and which would be highly _
Suitable for hiding the four deserters. —— -°
. Other private dwellings, belonging to
Beheiren. leaders and loyal supporters, are -
. ‘geattered throughout both the Kanto (Tokyo) ©
_ and Kansai (Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto) areas,

 

 

 

 

 

. (b)  Beheiren-Soviet Liaison: Beheiren _ :
Secretary General YOSHIKAWA has maintained
‘ periodic contact with Soviet Embassy

officials for years. Beheiren Chairman :
ODA has met Soviet Peace Committee officials
in Moscow, In the case of the four sailors,
‘information provided by a reliable sensitive . . :
source has clearly established that both | . 4

a

SECRET

 

   
 

 

 

   

  
  
   

   
   
   
  

itself has tried to keep the “desertion mood" alive by
organizing a new group to promote and aid the deféction of
future U.S. military servicemen in Japan. End of Summary .°

 

 

gi Following is information on Beheiren and its “involve~
ment in the case of the four, Ue 5. Navy deserters.

Origin and Developnent of Beheiren ra
(1) Founding: Beheiren was organized in _
April I965, nominally as a politically inde~
-- pendent group of intellectuals and cultured
'.. persons whose purpose was "to help restore
peace in Vietnam." Actually, it is a poosely
organized group of ex-Japan Communist Party .
' (JCP) members, progressive intellectuals, | oo
- leftist. cultured persons, and leftwing students - -
banded together in the namé of opposition to the...
Vietnam War by two common. denominators; dedicated ’
anti-Americanism and refusal to be. dominated or
- controlled by the orthodox scp. :

 

: “(2) Hard-Core Secretariat: “The ‘veal force
behind the organization of Beheiren has been
‘a brillant Communist named YOSHIKAWA Yuichi, oo:
‘whose conspiratorial organizational Skills have . °
. been perhaps the most indispensable ingredients
in Beheiren's development.” YOSHIKAWA was expelled .
“from Tokyo University for his role as an All-
* Japan Federation of Student Self-Government _
- Associations (Zengakuren) leader“in the 1960.
‘4U.S.~Japan Security Treaty riots. He then went.
“dnto full time JCP mass movement professional —
work, becoming the Secretariat official in
~- charge of international relations for the Japan
Peace Committee, YOSHIKAWA broke with the JCP -
in late’ 1964, following the rupture in relations’ -
“between the JCP and the Communist Party of the oo:
Soviet Union (CPSU) in May that year, The inspir-" —
‘ation for Beheiren springs in large measure from.
- YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his organiza-
tional talents ‘in countering the JCP and its nr
‘Japan Peace Committee, YOSHIKAWA, in addition
to being a well qualified English linguist him-
self, years ago surrounded himself with a small
following of similarly qualified lieutenants,
'.. whom he brought along into Beheiren to give him
the necessary depth and experience -to run this
new organization. YOSHIKAWA functions as
Beheiren's Secretary General.

Le _ Sher = 8 —

 

 

 

     
 
  

 

41007310274

ane ; .
py. SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
of ", WasmnaTon, D.C. 20s0s

    
 

   
   
  
 

 

The ionorable Walt We Rostow oo
7 Special Assistant to the President

   
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: °

 
   
  
  
  

 
 

oy ‘Beheiren and the Four U.S. Navy ‘Deserters

   
 

“dL. The following information. on Beheiren was compiled.
by! ‘a representative of this Agenc and comprises .
his personal interpretation and kn ed :
and covert information available to our Statio

as of 20 December 1967..: Copies. of this memorandum aré
being. furnished to Directar, Naval Investigative Service;
Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the
Arny; Deputy Assistant Secretary for: Security, Department —.
of State; Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Chief, -
Counterintelligence Division, Directorate of Special
Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF; Commandant, _
Headquarters United States Marine Corps; and Chief,
Counterintelligence & Security Office (DIACT), Defense
Intelligence Agency. This report partially answers DIA .—
letter S-4845/CI-4 of 29 December 1967 and oral, wequests
of similar nature’ from the Department of the Navy. wt

   
 
   
   
      
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
  

  
 

cee 2. | Summa - On 13 November 1967,- when the leaders
of the Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Committee (Beheiren)
dyvamatically.announced at a press conference in Tokyo .
that four. U.S. sailors from the aircraft carrier USS INTREPID
had deserted their ship because of opposition of the Vietnam -
War, the name Beheiren suddenly assumed a degree of prominence,
..The four sailors' successful flight to Moscow, with Beheiren |
aid, where the Soviet propaganda machinery proceeded to ff
~~. make capital out of this windfall, has kept Beheiren in the . . -
“.. public spotlight in succeeding weeks, The incident has mo. o>. 2
'. already stimulated a new would-be defection case involving \ :
two. Sailors from Yokosuka Uy S. ‘Navy Base, and Behelren

 
       
   
   
        
  
  
 
 

  
   

  
     

  
 

 QASSIFICATION REVIEW

facie On OS ie )

nee or ray teagan nme

    

 

ce :

 
a wae ae

  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  

  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 

(3) Respectable Intellectual Front: Following
- fundamental Communist principles for mass move-—
:ment work, the ex-JCP organizers of Beheiren:..x-
kept themselves ‘in the background and lined up.
-@ number of prominent Japanese progressive .
~ intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to
front for Beheiren. The choice of ODA Makoto,
_ ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, to.
be the Chairman was a fortunate move for wo
. Beheiren... ODA has_taken to this front work . ~~
_ like a duck to water. It has given him a ‘ L
chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent 7
anti-American’ feelings, puffed him up to the ~~
extent that he has been dubbed "the emperor"
by other Beheiren activists, and given him at. .
long last an ideological mission to pursue, ~ 2
-. YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding :
_ODA's Ss ego needs and in infusing and indoctrina-
. ting ODA so that his words and actions take o
sufficiently. virulent anti-American overtones, |
ODA has served another vital function for
. Beheiren by “recruiting a. sizable number of
fellow intellectuals.to join the ranks of
Beheiren activists.” (See paragraph 4 for a
listing. of a number. of. those Japanese who have
been identified as_ active Beheiren supporters
or _Sympathizers, yd: me .

 

 

(@).- Organizational Development: In ‘its two.)
and one-half year history, Beheiren has not
changed appreciably its organizational format,
- although it has moved its office three times -
and modified its:name even oftener. Beheiren

' is not a "mass organization," because it has
had no sizable. popular backing to the present
time. Its.hard core, secretariat organization
is run by: YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants, ‘Its
public image,-intellectual front is led by ODA,
and given body by a score of like-minded intel~
lectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAWA, who form ~
- the loose body of Beheiren's activist leadership.
Under this Beheiren leadership superstructure.
lies a base of only several hundred Beheiren | wo,
"rank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese = —
. Students. Organizationally, Beheiren has no wlan
. formal membership system, so its base of support—
ers is fluid and not precisely measurable.
-However, the base support for Beheiren has

 

  
 

SECRET. Se

 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

SECRET «©.

    
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
    

“e “definitely been \ on the upswing during 1967, “and
. made such notable strides during the past summer |... oy
| that JCP Headquarters officials finally felt. 95. :.¢ fj
- constrained to note with concern that Beheiren | mo
Was beginning to drain off a growing number of -
. progressive youth who otherwise would have been

“. absorbed into the JCP's own youth movement. 7S

- Beheiren leaders have tried to help this growth |
_ along by setting up a youth section, calling it.
. "Young Beheiren." Beheiren's imaginative actions
and publicity-conscious programs have been
responsible for its recent growth, and this
period of growth seems to be now on the verge: _
of really gaining momentum, As a result of its ~
¥Yole in the case of the four deserting. sailors,
Beheiren has reaped bountiful publicity, has °
succeeded in touching-a delicate Japanese’ public.
nerve. of sympathy and pacifism, opening a flood-
“gate of support for Beheiren from all over Japan,
_When this' case fades from the limelight, it is
“still most likely that a fair percentage of the —
current wave of popular support for Beheiren
‘Will. solidify into permanent mass backing,
‘giving Beheiren, for the first time, a meaning-
ful base to Support its future activities.

 

 

(5) Activities ‘and Accomplishments: Beheiren.

has engaged in a number of propaganda actions,
and participated in international anti~Vietnam ;

> War activities, It has tried to cooperate with |.

-certain front activities in Japan controlled by
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to
“Investigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities,

... Which culminated in the Tokyo Court of August
-1967, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed
‘by the JCP. In spite of this, Beheiren has
‘churned’ along at its own pace, with a continu- |
‘ing series of anti-Vietnam War actions, most of

them related in some way to the American pacifist ~

movement. In this regard, Beheiren has succeeded -
in cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese
contacts with U.S. pacifist movements and :
effectually capitalized on this to..promote its.
own action program, The case of the four
deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky:
windfall for Beheiren, only points up the fact
that Beheiren, through past organizational work :
and promotional activities, was ready and capable |

     
 
        
        
     
    

SECRET

 
