 

anette ners

 

 

‘paAnlionano cen

 

 

 

 

MARTINO and Nathaniel spoke of a trip that MARTINO. hed made
to Cuba with an American newspaper woman, one LAPIN and two CIA agents.
Nathaniel did not accompany them. It 1s PRISBECKts opinion that Nsthaniel,
who Is a coward, just welshed om the trip, but thet he did finance it.
The purpose of the trip was to. contact a Cuben who waa serving as liaison
for the four Russian Generals in charge of training and organizing the
Cuban military. The Cuban, who met the gram.in the water at the edge of.
@ beach in Cuba, told them that tha.four Generals. wanted to escape and
seek asylum in the United States,

‘MARTINO is going: ahead -with a follow up plan whereby on a given
signal, he and a group will seil to Cuba to pick up the Generals. Nathaniel,
is going on a long lecture tour and will not be-able to accompany the pick
up team to Cuba. . :

LES HARVEY OSWALD.

. The Cuban friends-of. the wmamed individual in Miami lmow that
OSWALD contacted the Cuban MI-6 by telephone from a private home in Miami.
They also know the man vho furnished the information on OSWALD to the FBI,

. - From the reports given by the Cubans to this unknown individial,
it seems very definite that RUBY went to Habana to make ea shady deal with
@ creature by the name of PRASKINy who works with the Cuben Comamists and
who is also tied up with call girls in Cuba. - .

; A friend of Nathaniel WEYL, who ran for the presidency of Cuba
in 1958, shortly will testify before the Senate Internal Security Sub«
Committee. PRISBECK says this information may be confidential. . SOURWIRE,
of the Committee, contacted Nathaniel to get in touch with the individual.

MARINA OSWALD

" Wathaniel claims there 4s more to Marina than meets the eye. He
has no doubts about her being politically involved and also he thinks that
OSWALD'’s mother is an old line Commmist, but he cannot prove this belief.

Nathaniel Imows that after OSWALD was refused a visa to the Soviet
Union, he made a quick trip from Mississippi to Cuba. OSWALD returned from
this trip with money and then purchased a car. This atary of his trip te Cuba
comes from a girl in Miarrt with wham he was living when he was in Miami.
(oom) = ; SO, d

my ; 12 Fetruary 1964

 

SUBJECT: Debriefing of PRISBECK
6 or7 February 1964.

 

Subject reported on various personalities shea heard discussed.
while she was visiting, in Florida from 30
December 1963.%0 T or S January 196t,

cama JOHN BIRCH SOCTEIY:

 

 

 

 

. PRISHECK. received.the: impressionithat: the WEYLs. have disassociated .
themselves fromthe Birchites.and have. completely severed: thelr relationship
with the Society and ‘dtepurposes.... They do not see fnu WOLLMAN, « wealthy
man, who 1s the: Dirchite-representatdive: in -Palm:Beach. WOLLMAN had entertained
the WEYLs frequently: when: they-first:moved.:to.Rlorida.

During:the: entire:Jength of PRISBECK's visit amd as fer as she
could judge,. the VEYie-were:commletely:isolated.soclally. They have not been
assimilated into the Little.tow.in-which.they live and tineir only contect
with the.towmspeople:ta-at: sthexolub: Which: they frequent , Tout: seldont.--

JOHN MARTINO

 

Me. and Mra. MARTINO visited the WEYLe one evercing when PRISBECK
wes present. John MARTINO. and. Nathaniel WEYL.are.co-autinars of the book
"tT was Castro's Prisoner", which was published in.November 1963. PRISBECK
has read it and says it is.an‘extremely interesting and well written accommt .
of MARTINO's imprisomment in .Cuba. -

 

PRISBECK, at this.point,. cautioned the writer to remember that
all she was relating regarding. the WEYL's remarks. were rumors and/or gosst
and that Source had no means of: checking the truth of their statements.

John MARTINO is the individual who carries the stories to Nathaniel

- and both Jchn ang Nathaniel are deeply entrenched with the Giban anti-Castro
forces. MARTINO claims to have a friend in Miami who keeps him well informed

on Cuban matters. .
SEANET Docurnset Number \232- \023

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977

 

   
 

 

JACK RUBY —

Hathantel is convinced that he was a depe pusher and that he
wan used by the Commuiistac

GENERAL

 

PRISBECK. advised that it ie on old gimutek used by the Russians
to instruct an American citizen vhom they intend to use ta ge te the American
Consul in the city in Russia where he ia residing ani say that he wishes
to return to the United States but-dees nob have the required monsy for his
passage. In this manner, when the: Amexican Consul, furnishes the Amitviduel
his fares they ostensibly are giving hima clean-bill of health.

7 Source alse advised that no American my work in Russia unless he
is a member of the CPUSA. Neturally, Foreign Service personnel and private
businessmen on trips are exchuled from this restriction. The Party direets
the mexber ag to his specific destination in Russia. Source recalls that an
espionage training scheol was located in Kiev and that this school was still
in existence in this city in 1937, the last date of contact of Source-with
RIS.. Source said it ia very likely that the CPUSA instructed OSWALD to proceed
ta Kiev for the purpose of attending the espionage school and that Likewise:
OSWALD was instructed to act penniless and requeat passage home from the U.S. -
Consul in Kiev.

 

 

So speeagpt nae saat

 

Helene Finan

 

 
