74-00000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral mail intercept operation,
LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited
Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters
from a subagent employed by the Mexican postal system.

2. Liaison Coverage:

Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by
the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction
of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

ig ee Tel , and corrupt. A Station

   

foreigners. Their agents were
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In
1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

 
74-00000

 

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

_ Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-

cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the
joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-
bassies in anticipation of possible coverage. The Station immediately
disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so
that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their
taps. The Mexicans soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

 
14-00000

"processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

' Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated: strictly on an ‘experimental

basis. in the early stages. This base, “however, was. closed when the Sta-

“tion | received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was
"being released by the: Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo- We
. graphic base. It was ‘located in an upper story of an apartment building
. 7 on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middle of .
‘the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the. Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a
row of four houses on the south side. of ‘the Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked the back: garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The te

; purpose of this operation was to get good. identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from. the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de- -—
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station’ but in early @s9, due to the resig-

7 nation of a ‘technician, this Film Vike that. of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

SECRET SENSITIVE

 
74-0000

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1... Unilateral Coverage:
‘From the time the Mexico Station was opened (in April 1947\until
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station lin 1955, jthe Station had .

- developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline

. phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

‘

mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were. placed by fan employee of the local *\

 

 

 

 

 

{telephone company who was} handled by a Station case officer. The number
of lines tapped’ was limited only by the availability of a listening post
nearby and the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-_
American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
assisted by technicians on TOY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC ©

_ and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en~-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

E2, IMPDET
ChPRTT ENGINE arom
cr a Tanguage other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the trans} ations .
usually. ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him- ;

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the a

. Station started screening art _ Photographs. However, here ‘again,- there
was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week:
. but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the —
* technician who was processing the film, did so ona night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not.made initially until a complete rol of. -
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator. cleared the camera
at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused. Film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to.
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur. but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dife
ficulties. ,
. Oswald came ‘to the attention of the, -Tistening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet Vine. iit was picked uP and “taken to, Mr. Boris

; .

SECRET /SENSITNE

 
 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak ‘in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personne} waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. AT] transcripts were made in
either Spanish or English’ since the. Chief of Station could read only

these two Tanguages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads 4

 
ye-00009

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double Taned

, street on: the southeast corner of ‘that: block. - , (See attached diagram).

LIMITED + was the first photo base and. operated strictly on an experimental

> basis in the early. stages. This base, however, _was closed when the Sta-

tir

tion received word that the photograph of. the: "unidentified man" was

‘being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC, was an alternate photo-

_ graphic base. It was located in an, upper story of an apartment. building

on ‘the: same side of the street’ | as the LIMITED ‘site but in the middle of.

‘the block. south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet .

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of- a oo,
row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound. |
This site ‘overlooked the back garden of ‘the Soviet Embassy compound. The -
purpose of this operation was to get. good identification photographs of
Soviet personne}. The three photographic sites were managed by a rev
cruited agent who was a Mexican. citizen, the son of an American mother ~

and Mexican father. (deceased). “This agent cotected the film from the

LIMITED | and LILYRIC sites three times a week. » The itm was then de- -
“veloped and printed / jinto 8 x 10 contact. print strips. LICALLA fil was |
originally processed in the Station but in early (Tis) due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED. and LILYRIC was

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent,

Es]

 
[0d 10108-10132

 

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage:
From the time the Mexico Station was opened {in Aprik 1947) 1947) until
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station{ in| 1955,\,the Station had |
“developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline
' phone taps, three photographic sites, ‘a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

 

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed byjan. employee: of the: Jocal .4 7

 

 

{telephone company who was\ handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

of lines tapped was limited ‘only by the availability of a listening post .

nearby and the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These

‘operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC |

— and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

telcos ar pres = EL BY 008645
CLPRET REMIT
74-0000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
‘These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

: could be activated, by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of

: ‘interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED Photographs for.
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a(uailatera|/ mail intercept operation,

* LIBIGHT, which was handled by an Anerican case officer. (recrufteds

   

 

Bide ee

me liomaaraes: a ee selected letters
from a subagent employed by. the Mexican. postal system.) :

2. {biaidon Coverage:

{Liaison coverage) was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services} at that time. The Mexican Diréction .

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted Tiaison,'was a hip-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- ‘pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry

-was principally occupied with political investigations and control of —

foreigners. Their agents were vinleece lL, | and corrupt. {A § {A Station“) ,

(officer. trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In}
a

 

 

 

 

 

 

58,.at the-instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tat tap}

 

 

 

 

operation ‘came into existence. ‘The operation, which became known as” fi

 
, "Seen

w .
LIENVOY, we was run by a Mexican officer.) The listening post had 30 lines

 

 

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican J

 

Army Wy officers. In 1961 (because 0 of mismanagement by the Mexican _prin- }

 

{cipalsy the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

. Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

- post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. ‘There was also
an American technician inside the. listening post. i - .

3. Oswald Coverage: uo oe -
In mid-1962, ithe exican officer in “charge of LTENVOY (the t

 

 

 

 

 

‘yotnt tap operation) _asked the Mer ican officer _at the LTENVOY ( Vistening }

 

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban. and Satellite Em-

 

bassies in fanticipation of Possible e coverage} The Station immediately _

  
 

“of the unilateral telephone taps. on ‘these Embassies” so}

 

 

 

 

a at i

 

 

Ea they would not be ‘discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their >

 

_ The “Mexicans }soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish’ lines, and one. ‘Yugoslav 7
Tine. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest. which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when ‘a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels: which. contained Russian

4.

SECRET/SENSITHE

 
