Chief i :

UBECT

Cottle /6OLNs/ARPARAIEE/S Contents Tp rare For niceties
. [ae | NO INDEXING REQuiRED-
ACTION REQUIRED ns , toe, ” : INDEXING CAN 8E JUDGED © .
Se oe . te BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY °-.-
balen : : : . -

Bee Dat
TEFERENCEIS}

- revolved around 4/5's spartment, which the question of th

-,doubtedly the thought has cocrred to the etation thet OO may wel, havo
. Costille tabbed as an AIS officer

. did she have to account for her expenditures. Sume of the things GOLUB
“missiong, what their backgrounds are and perhaps how they are spotted (e.g., _

amatters. It wight be doubted that GOLUB himself is a specialist in CE operations -
segainst the AIS, since he, as EGS Realdent would have broader responsibilities,.

“FORM

10-57,
(40)

7 to ao i/s hereatter) has dlaplayed trote to too rect = degrees beth

      
   
   
    
    
   

 

 
  

— (CHECK "x" one

 

onents have given « considerable e thought © to the —
_Jexmrvarat componant, are sud we shall attempt to cntLine delew
the gist of the consensus of epinton derived therefrom. ;

2. Putting first t kings first, it is believed ‘thats ARPANINEE/S ( (referred

Se The very fast that Sp TA agent and COLI, own HE
are in contact with each other, has implications which warrant close scrutiny.
Whiks it may be a bit too early to ponder the direction GOLUB*ts intersst could
take, (is GOLUB sizing up 4/5 for recruitment, or is he falling for her, gem
inely?) the following comments are offered in the knowledge that they ate, by

 

roomate. - Tt would be odd to us if a nati:

he GOLUB has made provocative reiasie to both A/§ and Costilte, including
"some peftaining to the 4/5-Costille relationship, A/5's trip to the USSR, the -
likelihood that GOLUB's contact with 4/5 had come to the attention of the U.S.
Te ee eee eg Ee eat ter and to the possibility
that A/S vas reporting on ber contact with GOLIB to the U.S. Brbassy.

speclalizing in operations
‘you will, recall, in a couple of instances COLUS hinted to Eset be auspected
that someone else was paying for her trip to’ the USSR when he asked her te whom —

‘might :
‘hope to gain from these contacts, assuring that be te auspicious of both Costille
and A/S, avez an indication of the type of people PBPRIME sends on REDSKIN: -

whether they are students of Soviet affairs, or of the Russian language, etc
what the backgrounds are of the AIS officers runing the operations, cna related —

However'y he might well be interested in "keeping his hand in® and of maintaining -
ssome personal contacte with Americans in order to get his own first-hand ime a

Se pees US Eo EDITION. CLASSIFICATION

us nee ches : ,
53 S128. 51200 AND 51-29 : . . ; &] CONTINUED
. WHICH ARE OBSOLETE. a

 

wees mimes cote so / TRPeAAR Aan
104-1051: tie

 

SR/2/CE |
6.

p SS | Ns

 

COORDINATING OFFICERS

r
gens LCGURE

|

| Spare -atcror immed

 

#Mh

asstract [Se

   
   

FILE NUMBER
201150156

(WHEN FILLED IN} “

R TING AND RECORD SHEET

COMMENTS

 

AUTHENICATING OFFICER 7

 

 

Eli, | sanz |
0)

 

_ RELEASING OFFICER

 

et gee jee DOCUMENT NUMBER

SECRET : rn a - fant

 

 
     
         
       
       
   
  

ee” wee. a, low a ee
. * . CASSIICATION,
gas ar

‘pressions.’ It might be interesting to see whether after a while he turng over © .
the Costille contact to someone elge, such as Viktor Hatveyevich ZIGAL, to whom ©
‘he hag intredueed Costilla. In this context, it is interesting to consider the  _
Enbassy report received as an attachment to OFHA-1,067,. In this report, Costille,

says that CHALKOVSEIY, ZECAL and GOLUB seem to be maintaining the majority of
contacts with Americans. Some time ago we at Headquarters wondered if CHALKOYSEIY
wight be planning to specialize in American contacts, since he was the one who tock —
over th: contact. And ZEGAL has spent considerable time in the United .

States, 36 ght be something of an American specialist, too. .

5 It is difficult to say whether the following is relevant or ‘not, but we
were interested toread a recent dispatch concerning a luncheon ine» —
-wolving a KUBARKer and two 3 At this luncheon the suspect KGB.
Rezident in Denuark alleged that one out of every three American visitors te the :
USSR is 4 spye Here we have the saspect EGG Residents in tee Scandinavian comtries
simaltariecusly expressing the same thoughts to and about Americans. We realize .
that one shouldn't try to make too much out of these coincidences, but 1% ig worth
noting that in Demaark the KGB Rezident has subsequently turned over the contact .
with the AIS officer to an underling at the same time that GOLUB is introducing.
a re eens 1p tums carry om the contactae We plan to pint out .
this coincidence to the ;

   

       
      
   
   
   
       
       
   
   
   
   
       
     
    
    
       
    
      
     
   
   
  

 

 

6. To get back to the cass in point: The pattern of a/s's contacts with
GOLUB suggests that the letter has spotted and is in the process of assessing, and
cultivating A/5, It may be that GOLUB is trying to involve A/5 in a romantic re« .
lationship in which emotional control could be exercised, since it is quite m- ~
likely that this shrewd intelligence operator “likes her for her mind", 1% would .
also seem that the Soviets have a continuing interest in Costille and assuming =
that they are aware of at least some of the Costille-A/5 contacts, thsy may have
in mind recruiting A/S togst information on Costille and ether American targets. —
or te gat informetion ta the ATE ce Leber > om the “hooks be it for herself
or tog et information on the AIS, or both.

Te Costille says he. hag never been seen with AfS and that all contact with |
har has been held in his apartment or car. However, it appeare quite possible -
that theiz meetings have been observed, if the RIS had an inclination to do go,
and it may well be that GOLUB is aware of the contact. It iswequested that — -
Costille advise Headquawters, for record purposes, as to the means of contact ;

employed by him and A/S: telephone, meeting plans for a certain day ofeach week .
or alternate days, etc. Also, does she come unaccompanied to his apartment efor
does he meet her at a désignated place, what is the usual. hour (daylightor dark),
‘duration of vialt; if meebing 1s in his car, where do they meet, do they drive -

. -aroand, where does he drop her off? All of this could be surveiiled by the Soviets, qo
sdf they were so inclined.

8 If our suspicion 4s correct that GOLUB has A/5 and Costille tabbed, from a
CE standpoint it would be sppropriate to discourage any farther contact between
affS and GOLUB. He might just contime to fish around for occasional items of
~operational intelligence, and we see nothing to be gained from the contact. A/S
might have enoogh of a sense of mission to allow herself to be egged on inte a
. conversation from which GOLUB would derive more benefit than she or we. If GOLUB
ewants to defect, he won't need A/5's help, and he's probably too sharp, and she
_ “too untutored, for us te be the winner in a contimation of this relationship. -
 dAt this point, it is suggested that Costille himself be careful in his. relations’:
serith GOLUB and report indetail on all suck contacts. :

    
           
     
     
   
       
    
  

9. The REDSKIN angle concerning WS will be covered ine @ separate dispatch. ;

K. cna RE

. SPHILLIP “Fs SCHWANTNGER

sDistribution: a ; wo ial w

1 ~ sR/2/cE
WE/1

 

 

2. WE

eee yah sim
_*9 September 9

FORM , USE-PREVIQUS EDITION.
REPLACES FORMS
7 Sa 51-28, 31-28A AND 51-29
i ‘WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

  

—SECREI
