Soe SeRET

6. One informant advised that Subject is a diabetic who
must use insulin.

7. Investigation has disclosed no information which would
indicate that either Subject or any member of hia family is other
than loyal to the United States. Considering this, in addition
to the protracted residence of Subject's mother in the United
States, it is believed that the likelihood of adverse pressure
being put on Subject by his foreign connections is remote. It
is believed that Subject meets security criteria for the pro-
posed employment. It is, therefore, recommended that:

A. Exception to Regulation 10-3 be granted.

B. Subject be security approved for Contract —
Type "A" employment, subject to polygraph.

C. Subject's alleged diabetic condition be
brought to the attention of the Medical Staff.

William F. O'Shea
Appraisal Section

WO'S:kee:rls

Crete OP L)pwrte
Ack

bswenr! TEG&, BC/Cb

31 AUG 9 _
Joounda cpparard ey GO -
een) Aqga, - ie,

Bl dus € |

SEGRET

 
froe-torer-iorsep 7" ee ee

‘Office Memorandum ‘UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

“TO +: Chief, Appraisal Section DATE: Sy 00 dyad
'

FROM : William F. O'Shea
Appraisal Section 03

SUBJECT: RODRIGUEZ, Enilio Americg
Lhe

1. Subject is under consideration for clearance for Contract
Type "A" employment which would permit him access to CIA premises
in the field (Miami). He currently holds a Type "B" clearance.
Subject has not been polygraphed.

2. Subject is/33 years .of_age, and is married to a native. °~
born American ertizeny ‘Subject was bornfin Cuba in 1928, entered?’
the United States in 1942, and was naturalized in 19497 Subject
“attended [[ulane University from.1945 to 1948 and from 1952 to 1954. o¥
While at” school] he was employed As a part-time Teacher and as av ©
Medical Technician™} Subject's father was bornfin Havana in 1893] (6) 04
oy (Be is currently a an citizen residing in Havana} Subject's mother
was born fim Havana in 1901. Although she has not been naturalized, (0,07, 08
she has-resided in the United States’ fran 1904 to 1922 and from 1942
to date. othe?) foreign connections, if any, are not disclosed.

3. Investigation was conducted in accordance with currently
prescribed CIA procedures. Checks at FEI, GNI, ACSI, State Depart-
ment Security, CSC, HCUA and OSI were negative. Passport records
contain no derogatory security information concerning the Subject.
I&NS recoris verified Subject's naturalization.

4, During the current CIA investigation, Subject's employments
were verified as favorable. Credit records were favorable, and police
records were negative. During the investigation, two developed infor-
ments were interviewed, neither of whom questioned Subject's honesty,
loyalty, morals or integrity. Informants variously described Subject
as sympathetic to the American way of life, intelligent, well educated
and trustworthy. One (confidential) informant, a former FBI agent, .
advised he knew nothing of a derogatory nature concerning Subject.

3. Only one item of security interest appears in Subject's case.
This concerns his foreign connections (alien status of mother and
feather, and possibly other foreign relatives). Exception to Regulation
10-3 is required.

 
