13-00080-

SECRET .
Report # BE-837, GH, 20 Dec 63 (cont.) _ |
the immediate beginning of an almost hot ‘Cold War’ with the subsequent :
support of all of KHRUBECHEV's missiles to the tottering Cuban regime.

‘O£ course, this would be a brilliant and possible play in the case of

an extremely dangerous paranoic.

"The Venezuelan, Cases

“What a coincidence? Two days after KENNEDY's funeral a
transcendental announcement is mades Venezuela officially accuses
Cuba of landing a huge cargo of arms in that country. All the teams
get mobilized and the immediate order is given to have a meeting of
the Security Council of the 0.A.8. All this happens with the speed
of lightning. The cache of arms was discovered on the 2nd of November
1963, but the transcendental step was not given until now.... In my
opinion, that was the Plan which KENNEDY was holding in reserve. But
KENNEDY had more time to carry it out, and JOHNSON does not have so
much time; and besides, it is necessary to act while things are hot
‘and that is why it was advanced. Now I do think that the crucial
moment has come: The mouse fell in the mousetrap with cheese and
everything: It will be very difficult for CASTRO to get out of this
ambush.

"Besides, many doubts and prejudices which we had been dragging
for a long time now begin to get clarified. That was the Plan: Get
CASTRO to accomplish something of such magnitude that it would affect
ell Latin American countries, so that all would have to adopt collective
measures. The Plan was COLLECTIVE ACTION. That is why the Americans
were opposed to actions by Cuban exiles. That is why they persecuted
them. That is why KENNEDY rejected the idea of an invasion by the U.S.
It was necessary to wait for the opportunity, and they waited for it.
Everything will take place in the eyes of the world with the evidence
on hand, according to law; that is the objective of Article 8 of the
1947 Rfo de Janeiro Mutual Assistance Treaty. America has in its hands
the legal instrument to do justice against Communism. It is a case of
flagrant intervention in a country which is a signer of the Treaty by
one which does not respect any Law and which has placed itself outside
the law. ; :

"If CASTRO has been shouting since the 2nd of December of 1961

that he ‘is a Marxist-Leninist,’ the fact is that he does not know

absolutely anything about that. This gentleman has never been more

SECRET apf. 2P924F
. SECRET .
Report # EE-837, MW, 20 Dec 63 (cont.) . oo
than a university hoodlum, &@ bourgeois with free registration in

Havana University. That is why those who were hunting him let him

* loose. It was necessary to wait patiently for him to make a mistake,
‘and in the end he did make it. Fighting in Venezuela is a completely

erroneous fight from all viewpoints, but in order to show that we are
not--like they say we are--resentful bourgeois we are going to prove
it from the Marxist-Leninist viewpoint. :

“The CHINESE have said the following about this: ‘We uphold that
in the fight against Imperialism, strategically, considering the whole,
it is necessary to have contempt for the enemy, to dare fight against
him and to conquer victory. And at the same time, tactically, in each
concrete struggle, it is necessary to take the enemy seriously into
account and to adopt a conscientious and prudent attitude. Tactically,
if the enemy is not taken seriously into account, and one acts in a
rash manner, and if at the same time one does not dare to have contempt
for the enemy strategically, one will inevitably commit the mistake
of Adventurousness in Tactics and of Capitulationisn in Strategy.

And comrade MAO also has to say the following about. “Tactics ‘in his
select works: ‘If we do not act with prudence in each ‘particular case,
in each concrete problem, we do not take care in studying and in
perfecting our art of fighting and we do not pay attention to winning
all the allies which must be won (small faxmers, small artisans and
independent merchants, middle bourgeosie, students, teachers, professors
and intellectuals in general, simple public servants, ‘professionals,

and sensible persons), we will make a mistake of leftist Opportuniam. ‘

“But Mr. Fidel CASTRO was a magnificent Marxist-Leninist and the
result is: nothing more illogical than what is being done in Venezuela.
How is it possible for a Marxist-Leninist<-even for a first grade one--
not to be aware that this type of tactical fight is only possible within
a Dictatorial System, a System of the TRUJILLO type, a STROESSNER type,
or a DUVALIER type?

“How is it possible in Venezuela where BETANCOURT was elected
through clean elections, and who is now going to hold elections and
will turn the reigns of the Government over to another person or to
another Party? Only a cretin will think of it. Tactics are erroneous
and falls frankly into the worst kind of Leftist Adventurousness. CASTRO

has dug his own grave.
=6§=
SECRET
13-00000

: . 8B Sc RET.
Report ‘# BE-837, Gaur 20 Dec 63 (cont.} , ve
is a team of men, a political party--the Democratic Party. Those %
men are closely connected with each other, and if one falls he is

*  dmmediately replaced by another one and the chariot continues moving

this will become known very soon, sooner than we imagine.

   

/ Babassy in Mexico city, and the angry reaction of Cuba thro
. Ambassador ROA when they learned that she had been arrest
' Giplomatic note was written din an angry and rude tone.

*
« edibnaS im ta ineaeses os

perfectly.

“The case of eegeacats might be a lunatic, butClunatics
do not act like eWAL’acted. they attack suddenly without caring
about the immediate ¢ consequences. Therefore, one must immediately
discard the theory that it was a fanatic. Everything seems to indicate
that KENNEDY’s assassination was a political assassination. .a political
assassination. > Goccsecting te

“KENNEDY s assagsin was nothing but an instrument in the ccd
of a sinister organization which sought higher objectives. The. objective
eould not be other than to produce a break in the good relations between

 

 

‘the United States and the USSR by those who might benefit politically

 

from this happening. CHINA and CUBA are the keys to the enigma. All

 
 
  

.“@here is also the ineident of the Mexican employee of ‘the Cuban

 
 

called the ‘accomplices of KENNEDY's reactionary assassins and it

‘Anterferes in the internal affairs of Mexico. Then, there was some

truth in the connection between this and that. They could no longer

_ deny that OSWALD had requested @ Cuban visa, but: ‘they claim’ that ‘they
refused to give him one. 8 - is true?

 

"In my opinion, the assasein. planned to escape and to seek refuge

here (Cuba), maybe even under a fictitious name. Everything is-possible
, with these people. The diplomatic note also tries to involve the US&R,
‘and we are back at the same thing. At a given moment, such a transcendentz

happening as KEMNEDY's death could suddenly provoke a collective hysteria:
in the United States and maybe even provoke a confrontation with the UBER.
Therefore, it was a diabolical scheme leading to achfeve an effeative
happening which might benefit someone politically, and that someone could
be MAO and Fidel.

“the objective might have been rapidly attained. Violent break~--
almost a state of war-~between the U.8. and the USSR, and, paturally,

at ~4~
* SECRET
13-00000 .

SBCRE® paw
Report ¢ BE-837, QM 20 Dec 63 (cont.) 9 ,

“Many did not understand this, and that brilliant man was etrongly °
exiticized and accused being weak. One must remember that above
Cuba, which is enly a ‘peon) in the international chess board, much
higher interests had to be safeguarded. It was necessary to destroy
the myth of the ‘monolythic unity’ of the Communist world, which the
Communists have tired of proclaiming, and in the end it was necessary
to show that they are also filled with great contradictions and to
direct the global strategy against the leading enemy which is
International Commnisnm.

“Well, CASTRO knew this well and he was beginning to get scared
because he understood perfectly that when the USSR withdrew its last
soldier the count down would begin for him (CASTRO.

"who were terribly harmed by the friendship and peaceful coexistence
of the USSR and the U.S., by the lessening of world tension as result of
all this? ...Chine and CASTRO. who had a life or death interest, at
thet time, in a return to a cold war as result of a sudden separation
er coldness between both giants? ...China and CASTRO. Who were prgently
interested in provoking a transcendental event which might re!
the break of those ties? ...China Gnd CASTRO. ‘The event took: place
KENNEDY was aseassinated. However, the United states were aware of the
sinister plot and did not fall in the trap.

"the same night of KENNEDY's death the State Department published
a note saying that 'no foreign power had been involved in the assassina-
tion.' The USSR was immediately pulled out of the atteiz.” | p suspicion
which began to arise was stifled.

“Later on MZXOYAN and JOHNSON hed an interview, and when mixovan
came out he declared that ‘relations between both countries remained
unchanged.® However, in all his appearances CASTRO continued to
insist that ‘plans hed been directed against Cuba, the USSR, and peace.‘
By all meang he wants to pull the USSR down with him. Note the insistence

“pid reactionary elements plan KENNEDY's assassination? I only
ask myself this questions Is there anyone so stupid in the U.S. or in
the world who thinks that there is going to be a sudden change in the
situation because the President of the United States is assassinated?
Absurd. In the United States everything Goes not revolve around a {

 

 

  

.

figure--like in totalitarian states; in the United States what governs
i ~3-
* SECRET
13-00000

  
 

BATE OF INFORMATION: year 1963.

ey
i
teclanteton .

, woes SECRET qf
Report @ BE-837. 20 Dec 63 / '

GOUNTRERS INVOLVED: U.8./Cuba/Communist Bloc. , 4

SUBJECT s Comments concerning President KENNEDY's assassination and i
Cuba's position in relation to the Communist world. a.

’ MICROFILMED

        
    
   
     
   
   
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
   
    

DATE AND PLACE ACQUIREDs U.S. (19 Dec 63).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject letter was Gated in Havana on 2 Dec 63, and- ;
: xeceived in Miami by air mail on 15 Dec 63.

INFORMANT: Personal appreciations by taking
consideration that in view o @ degree Of educat
the position which he used to hold, and of the fact

is still in Cuba he can form a “more or less" exae
about the Cuban political situation.

 

“zg imagine that you must have followed very closely all ¢!
happenings which have been taking place since KENNEDY's death
Saturday the 23rd of November--the day after the assasginatio
Traitor (Fidel CASTRO) hurriedly appeared on television to maké
angry protest that they wanted to involve him in the assags

“He defended himself like a wild beast and immediately
an accusation against what he calls the ‘reactionary elements
there. He said that all this was another ‘scheme’ of imperial;
and that he was uncovering the maneuver. ©

“fhe next day~~Sunday the 24th--he again spoke in Artemis
Pinar del rfo province, and on 27 Nov he again spoke on the st
Havana University for the same objective. In all these appears
the subject was always the same....KENNEDY had been killed by ¥
elementa and now they wanted to blame him. And with the follow,
characteristics: every time he dragged the Soviet Union in with
that is, he claimed the scheme was directed against him and th
This is the most significant fact of all this and the sipistes

i—thee case as I will explain to you. y 7A

 
  
    

Aho SECRET

Se CA s2576 ooY |. Bee FT .
13-00000

SECRET
Report # BE~837, QUEM 20 Dec 63 (cont.)
_ "On the 22nd of October 1962, during the crisis, KHRUSHCHEV
capitulated and promised KENNEDY first to withdraw the missiles,

then the bombers, and last the troops. Then CASTRO screamed like

mad, rushed to the TV cameras, rebelled like a beast, and said that
‘no one could inspect him'...‘the discrepancies between Cuba and the
USSR would be discussed between equals,‘ and other similar things.
Pirst sign of rebellion against the master who has sold hin down the
river and who begins to abandon him.

“Later on MIKOYAN comes to Cuba and stays here for over a month
without being able to get absolutely anything from CASTRO; he even had
to withstand the humiliation of having to wait for hours to- be received
by CASTRO. Second provocation.

“Between quly and August 1963 the traitor (CASTRO) is taken to
the USER almost by ‘by force on a ‘mysterious trip from which he returns.
without revealing absolutely anything. Later on the nuclear test ‘ban
treaty 4s signed. CASTRO immediately refuses to sign it, Gleiming | ‘that
while ‘Yankee Imperialism’ does not stop its aggressions agains ‘Quba
he will not sign. In addition, he also refused to support in ‘the
Nations the resolution concerning the creation of a denuclearized gone
in Latin America.

"what lies behind all these happenings? Very simple. CASTRO has
known since the 22nd of October 1962 that the USSR is going to abandon
him, gradually but definitely. At this moment the USSR is most.
interested in an approach to the United states in view of 1 di
break with Red China and of the serious economic crisis which it has
been facing for some years.

“That was the main reason why KENNEDY did not invade Guba then,
and that was his wisest decision. At that time. the break with China
was imminent and under no circumstances could happenings be provoked
which might tend to again unite the USSR and China.

“It was necessary to ‘freeze’ Cuba for some time. The break took
place on 14 Jun 63 through the famous letter with the 28 points of the
Chinese Communist Party to the Soviet Communist Party--which document
i have in my possession. Therefore, with’that maneuver KENNEDY did not

 

 
 

  

- humiliate the USSR and saved KHRUSHCHEV's face.

* SECRET
13-00009-

ge ADs Mig Ri iy mS , oo

1D OE oe SS e
by. ee ee LES daw 27-1 gg ete tee .

i? mys 1 30 PM Ry Jan 27 8 ss Py ty 06 PH *By

  
 

 

 

  

he He ®S Z IZ Nar

FAURE NIM ene cet

 

@
-

 

ee es

(Ol RO py BS stan ahs Sheet
OE ROIN ESE OE ee ue

ATR Reo

Meehaep os. we ee

STARE >

 

AO EER eo vscpeey

Be

mer blitt ersten a

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 
 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

neo) -——_—$ ———_———————— —§s& f ~~~

 

INSTRUCTIONS ! an
PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH. -
1. Fil in Sect, 2. k. ihe he’ flap If file no. and title shown are not proper,

 

2.5 Destroy front cover sheet, unless it. records insert proper file no. below and forward

significant action taken or comments requir- document to RID/AN.
ing ‘preservation.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION f ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
coe
Document Number

Cc nS. mime | for FOIA Review on WAY 1976 C
1.

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

C:
1c c
© c
(

o @ 92 % 9%

audsenl J WA te Po. 20 & |.

f2i/mts PT} ed 0 3177y .

_L aie at
al
a —_

|
| woex DEB. |
a y wy)

 

 

© ©

 

 

 

eR

© ¢ 8® © 6 4

Eas aes bee
® @ ¢

 

 

      
 

 

 

© e@ 6 @.@ 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00090

i
i
. 4
z
:

 

pa RE ese Neate

waka

naa t

eee

ptt

si 535)

eran raheem soit.

sp etuatin, aiahs

 

 
  

; aa 4 J WCC scr
Chief.of Station, Juwave /J7~ | JULY Wod

_ | 88r Operational /TYPIG/AMOT/GPFLOOR
® comments Concerning President

   

ee sf OL SAS

. : 3 ~
‘ . an .
“ : . a : 4
. }
- Le

DISPATCH SECRET a a
TO .

a TT ae ae

Chief, Special Affairs Staff | X __ [no woecne weqoeen |
ONLY QUALIFIED

ee  eerorcees]| Eee |

|

Leen

  

 
    
         

ne On and

    
 
  

  
    

ACTION REQUIRED:

  

 

None; FYI

 

Forwarded under separate cover is a copy of AMOT Report 3a~-€37

concerning comments on President Kennedy's assassination and Cuba's

 
 

position in relation to the Communist World. The opinions covered in

 
 

this report were the subject of al ter received by ANCT=152 from a

 
 

  
 

friend residing in Guba

 
 

 

eit-Cube eee lawyer
a Cuba Haven a

; “Extent Gt 261- 340336 and prother ~in- law.

END_OF DISPATCH oo

law of. AMPAUNA~28.

PT

     
       
  
  

 

 

 

 

    
    
   
  

Dod FORWARDED W/O 5,
[2 map/ail Cg. 7,6

Attachment:
Comments on President Kennedy's Assassination (BE-8 37)

Distribution: “sp
3-348 w/att PSC wed y .
$F" POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

_ NO FIELD DISTRIBUTION

     
 
 
   
  

  
  
    

GROUP GP eS
Excluded irom automati a
downgrading and
declassifieattaa

 
     
   

  

  

UFGA=12575
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

Dole 2EGLZYF |
1g Apse

     
      
    

4

  

   
   
13-00000

Seo Sanitizea File oy
ao ue lt

  

 

|
|
| .
i © Low venom ou -
: ' KYA layo .
Dosewweus yrnipe, ——

 

Spe

 
