_ SECRET

24 June 1975

. MEMORANDUM FOR: - Chief, Security Analysis Group - - =

SUBJECT : Robert A. MAHEU/Johnny ROSELLI Matter

1. The following is provided for your information.

2. Reference is made to previous memoranda, same subject,
which have been provided to the Inspector General regarding
information contained in Office of Security files concerning
Johnny ROSELLY and Robert A. MAHEU. Specific reference is made
to certain questions which have been raised concerning the
existence of a separate file entitled "Project Johnny", which
Securitye'* to have been kept in the safe of the Director of

3. All attempts to locate a file maintained separately by
the Director of Security entitled "Project Johnny", or any other
Separate wmofficial file concerning the MAHEU/ROSELLI matter
within the Office of Security, have met with negative results.
However, in conducting the research into this matter, a search of
the Office of Security's Top Secret Registry disclosed a Top
Secret document control card concerning a 14 May 1962 memorandun
from the Director of Security te the U.S. Attorney General. The
Top Secrat Control card indicated that a copy of this memorandum
was being reteined in the Director of Security's personal safe

‘umder Proj ect Johnny".

4. The Office of Security file relating to Johnny ROSELLI
has a file number of 667 270. Memoranda contained within that

file include the above mentioned 14 May 1962 Top Secret memo-
Director of Security, as well as the originals of

randum from the
numerous other menoranda dating back to 1966, which concern
Various aspects of the entire MAHEU/ROSBLLI matter. | According to
the Chief, Security Records Division, the above official file on
Johnny ROSELLE, using the 667 270 file number, was not established
until November 1974. Further, one such memorandum contained in that
offici C= of Security file relating to Johnny ROSELLI has
the original "back slip", which forwarded that memorandum to the
Director of Security. On the buck slip, which is dated 6 Jue
1968, the Emg handwritten notation from the Director of
Security appears: "Kathy, Johnny file".

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Oo Not Reproduce

SECRET
 

iene] ;

we

 

 

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
I

oth yea bras . _.

a 5 - SECRET

5. In view of the above, it would appear that a separate
file did exist prior to November 1974, the contents of which
would appear to have now been consolidated within the above
noted official Office of Security file on ROSELLI. Further,
now anng. that the heretofore missing "Project Johnny" file is
now an official file, the conclusion may be drawn that all
Office of Security files relating to the MAHEU/ROSELLI matter
have been reviewed, and that the pertinent information contained
therein has been forwarded to the Inspector General for review.

6. It should be noted that in 1967 the Inspector General
conducted an investigation into the MAHEU/ROSELLI matter, and
in so doing collected numerous memoranda from the various
Agency components directly involved. As a result, additional
memoranda which may have previously been held separately by
the Director of Security, may be in the possession of the

Inspector General.

os
[John S. Hunt)
Security Analysis Group

SECRET

el
