  

 

 

 

 

 

Cres

Wee!

in New Orleans at the time of the Oswald-Bringuier .

‘ confrontations in August 1963. It was concluded that
‘Oawald waa never a member of the DRE, which in fact
rejectéd him, and-that the DRE wae not involved in the

" Jaseassination. ;

3.0 pril [ z. signed showed a copy of the Thomas :
" memorandum ‘then C/WH/COG, who considered
that it reflected dequate Information and bias. It was agreed,

nevertheless, that the charges which District Attorney James Garrison
was then beginting to level against anti-Castro Cubans and this Agency
| Recessitated careful checking. : . -

 

   
  

4. The first report in the C1/R&A series on Garrison, 26 April
1967, Mated seven Cuban refugees then linked to the case {Sergio -

~ARCACHA Smith, Carlos BRINGUIER, Jullo BUZNEDO, Manuel GARCIA _

Gonzalez, Pascual GONGORA, Miguel Silva TORRES, and Garlos
. QUIROGA.) It requested any additional WH/COG information about them
and about the following groups: the Cuban Democratic Revolutionary
Front, the DRE; the Information Council of the Americas, and ‘any other
anti-Castro groups active in the New Orleans ‘area. The request added;
“Information about CLA relationshias. with the above-named groups should
_ not be restricted to. New Orleans but should algo include Miami and other,
areas to which Garrison's investigations may lead.’ Information was
also requested on Edward 8. BUTLER, Alberto FOWLER, Emilio
| SANTANA, anda parainilitary training site at Lake Pontchartrain. B
Memora forwarded on § May 1967 the then AC/WH/COG, Mr.
Co, lbrovtes the. requested information and added, "WH/COG
continue to review all material that may contain information pertinent

to this subject and will forward such information to CI/R&A on a priority
bueis," - : :

5. Since that date CI/R&A has prepared a series of reports on
the Garrison case. All of these have been forwarded te WH/COG. In
turn, WH/COG has provided additional inforination from its own files
and theee of the Miami Station, to which it has addressed several inquiries.

. 6. CURA {e-currently compiling a Separate list of all Cubans.
‘(as well as other Latin Americans) whose names have been linked to the
Garrison investigation. This Hat will be forwarded to WH/COG with a
request for checks if it contains any identities not previously traced —

against their files (including those of JMWAVE),

 

 

 

3
.
i
|

 

 
 

 

104-10170-10464] <

   

 

Qo eees
Ss
28 February 1963
-MEMORANDUM
- SUBJECT: Garrison Investigation of Kennedy Assassination:

Allegations of Involvement, CLA and Cuban

i. Mr. Catvin Thomas of the S55 Division wrote & memorandum
entitled “Possible DRE Animus Toward President Kennedy” and dated.
6 March 1967. At that time Mr. Thomas had recently returned from a
tour of duty in Yugoslavia. While there he had read about the Warren
Commission's investigation and had noted the pre
in New Orleans between Carlos Bringuler of the Student Revolutionary -
Directorate (DRE) and Lee Harvey Oawaid. He vecalled his own dealings
in Miami with the DRE, a ClA-subsidized group. He considered the
DRE imembers whorn' he knew to be unpredictable and untrustworthy. . He.
speculated as to whether DRE elements could have been involved In the
Kennedy assassination. He recommended that CIA investigate this
possibility if ft had not already done 60- Thomas was assigned to Miami
from July 1962 to August 1963. Neither CI/R&A nor SB has a retention .
copy of the rnermorandum, but Mr. Thomas is ethil at Headquarters.

2. Mr. Arthur Dooley of GI/RKA discussed this matter with the
following members of wil/COG: u

‘a. Miss Margaret Forsythe. She stated that CIA's
iriterest in the DRE had been made known to the office of the
Attorney General by letters of 9 January and 1a April 1993
addressed to J. Walter Yeagley. The earlier letter said, in,
part, "The DRE le of interest to this Agency which sponsors
and supporte ite propaganda and intelligence collection activity
in the Western Hemisphere.» + 38 the DRE ie not a group |
under co1aplete Agency control, the above docs not insure that
they will not undertake isolated paramilitary ope rations without

prior notification."

, be mevore.[ ten recently returned
from a tour of the Miaav on, an arl Trettin, bC of the
CL Branch; WH/COG, who tnew Bringuier and was stationed

Preneee.

aman .

~assaséination encounter
 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

te The “problemi arising {rom Garrison’ * charges’ of. ‘Agency
saination is. compounded by the: nature of.

  
 
 

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 

“Por example; Garrison ha sought without. .
te Sergio: -ARCACHA ‘Smith: from Dallas. - FBI reporting
: that according | to ‘Layton Patrick Martens,”
that Arcacha was. the second trigger. man”
The checks fun by WH/COG and CI/R&A have not
enArcacha‘and CIA. However, WH/COG haa’
A the delegate of the Frente Revoluciona a:
Dethocratico: (PRD) in New. Orleans before the Bay of Pigs, that, he
maintained regular postal contact with FRD headquarters in Miami,.
that the: ‘/FRD and the Cubaa’: Revolutionary Council were supported by
- GIA, and-that-fands wera supplied to the head of ‘these groups, Dr. Jose
MIRO Cardona.” ‘Consequently Arcacha may have-belleved that his -
activities in New Orleans were ClA-supported. This. ‘phenomenon of -
indirect association appears in other cases as well and may well unde lie
some of Garrison! 8 accusations. ' :

 

: “It is, ‘Suggested that C/WH or his. representative might.
profitably. query: Mr. Thomas about.the allegations summarized in
+ paragraph 1,. al Aithough the date for'the trial of. ‘Clay’ Shaw has.
not been set, ‘it fa plainly drawing closer. Once it starts, the newspapers
will carry a flood of accusations, old and new; arid it would be judicious

tobe prepared. in advance.

 

 

 

 

 

 
