aoagebien ye?

' tional leads.

€ = secret ¢€

that some of this mail was delivered, but like most of the operations de-

"scribed in this section, it is unknown Tf the program was effective in

increasing Cuban resistance.

Cc. INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION/ESPIONAGE

1. Refugee and Defector Exploitation:

' Cuban refugees were entering the United States at the rate of 1700
per week during 1961-62. The Inmigration. and Naturalization Service (I&NS) _

recorded basic biographic data on all ‘incoming refugees. Cards, containing

: this data, were provided to the Miami Station to conduct a file check for

counterintelligence purposes. In reviewing the cards, the Station identi-

fied refugees who might be used for operational purposes and arranged

interviews. which, frequently, also provided positive intelligence infor-

“mation.

CIA's Domestic Contact Division (pen) had primary responsibility:

for obtaining positive intelligence information from refugees. DCD inter-

viewed refugees of positive intelligence interest at the Caribbean Admis-
sions Center (CAC) in Opa-Locka. These interviews were documented in

Preliminary Information Reports (PIRs) which were provided to the Intel-

ligence Community and to the Miamt Station for review to obtain opera-

Prior to the Cuban Missile crisis in October 1962, the flow of

~9-
SECRET
 

 

C SECRET €

refugees was large, and it was relatively easy to obtain information on
current events in Cuba and Cuban exiles that could be utilized opera-
tionally. Following the crisis, the flow of refugees decreased signifi-
cantly. As a result, the Station established a section to exploit |
refugees more intensively, to centralize files on refugees, and to. pre-
pare studies on extle groups. operating in the U.S.

2 Anonymous Organization Group: . ae :

, During 1960-63, this Group consisted of between 50 to 100. Cuban
exiles who constituted a structured intel ligence support. group for the
Station. It performed a variety of functions for the Station, and it
was the Station's prime source of information on Cuban exile activities.
'. It is considered the single most valuable operational activity under-
‘taken by the Station. In summary, this Group: :

a. Infiltrated exile groups and reported on their
activities. Oe ;

b. Maintained extensive files on Cuban: exiles, exile
groups and Cuban Government personalities.
c. . Monitored Cuban radio broadcasts and summarized -
content. ; .

d. Produced intelligence reports and special studies.

Debriefed refugees.

©

f. Recruited infiltration agents.

~ 10 -
SECRET
 

C OSE CRET €

as an accurate and objective reporter of events: Tt prepared four news
bulletins a week which were distributed to 1200 Latin American news
outlets and prepared radio tapes based on the bulletins which were dis-
tributed to hemisphere radio stations.
4. Radio Americas (Radio Swan):

_ An Agency~financed radio stations the transmitter was located on
Swan Island with broadcast studios in New York initially and later Miami.
: Started broadcasting in mid=1960 with entertainment programs purchased
from Pan: American Broadcasting interspersed with news programs and propa-
ganda. CIA sponsorship was an open secret. Its image and credibility
was smudged considerably as a result.of its use in the Bay of Pigs opera-
tion. Most audience. response was received from Caribbean countries out-
side of Cuba. -

5. Mailing Operation: ~~
Most propaganda mailing operations were directed to Latif American

countries outside of Cuba. This project, initiated in 1963, was. designed
as a mass mailing operation into Cuba to encourage subtie sabotage, re-
sistance and harassment. Utilizing names and addresses from Cuban tele-
phone books. letters with fictitious return addresses were mailed to
Cuba from various Latin American countries and by insertion into inter-

national mail transiting the U.S. From refugee debriefings, it is known

~8-
SECRET
 

 

 

 

SECRET

weekly basis the UR published a list of free world ships visiting Cuba.
This was consistently picked up by the Associated Press and Agence
France Presse. Throughout its htstory, the UR was wracked with internal
bickerings and power grabs which detracted From its Impact.

2. Agency Supported Individuals: ;

Aside from utilizing various exile organizations for propaganda
purposes, CIA also supported several prominent exiles who prepared propa-
ganda materials. Zig Zag Libre was a successful satire magazine in Cuba
prior to the Castro regime.’ The Agency supported its former editor who
published an edition for mailing into Cuba. In the 1963 period it was
considered an effective weapon for ridiculing Castro. CIA also supported
a former proiinent student leader, and one of the former directors of
Prensa Libre, a leading Havana newspaper. These individuals: produced
daily radio programs for Radio Swan and prepared propaganda materials:
for publication. These individual efforts tended to be more effective
and to receive better audience response from Cuba than the organizational
‘broadcasts described above. . ,
Agencia de_Informaciones Periodesticas (AIP): -

AIP was a news information service Financed by CIA. Agency
sponsorship was an open secret. It was designed to fill the gap in

coverage by the regular news media. It was accepted in the hemisphere

7.
SECRET
 

“SECRET

d. Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE):

Led by several former Cuban student leaders. CIA support to

the DRE started prior to the Bay of Pigs. The DRE was primarily a para~

‘military organization and prior to April 1961,°21 DRE members were trained

and infiltrated into Cuba to create resistance and guerrilla units. This

DRE apparatus was destroyed in the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs. Subse-

- quent paramilitary operations also ended in failure and CIA withdrew tts

_ paramilitary support in December 1961. In January 1962, the DRE turned

to hemispheric propaganda operations. DRE sponsored students were placed

_in Latin American universities where they carried on anti-Castro activi-

ties. This so-called student project also engaged in such activities. as
drumming up support for the U.S. position at the 1962 Punto del Este Con-
ference and carrying out successful operations at the Helsinki Youth
Festival in May 1962. Starting in 1962, the DRE began broadcasts over
#NY shortwave radio station WRUL six days a week and Miami radio station
WMIE once a week. ‘The DRE also published an international bulletin which
was mailed to contacts throughout the hemisphere and a pony edition of
4,800 copies was mailed into Cuba. ; .

e. Frente Obero Revolucionario Democratico Cubano (FORDC):

Established by CIA in October 1960 as a rallying point for

middle and upper echelon trade unionists in exile. Led by former Cuban

~5-
SECRET
 

 

 

SECRET

labor leaders, FORDC published a weekly circular letter which was mailed
to labor organizations throughout.Latin America, Prior to 1961, FORDC
. sponsored a daily program over Radio Americas (Radio Swan). Starting in
December 1961, FORDC broadcast a daily program over station WMIE. In
addition to published and radio propaganda, groups of FORDC leaders were
‘sent on trips throughout Latin America to maintain contact with hemi-
sphere labor leaders and to sample attitudes toward Castro. FORDC also
maintained contact with international labor organizations.
f. Unidad Revolucionaria (UR): oe
Originally established in Cuba in December 1960 as a clan-

destine resistance movement. Its leadership was largely put to death or
imprisoned as a result of the Bay of Pigs. The organization was re-
established in Miami in August 1962 with CIA support. A paramilitary
“arm was established in April 1963, but no effective paramilitary action
was ever carried out. Starting in March 1963, UR sponsored a daily
radio program over WMIE targetted at Cuban farmers and another daily
program exposing Cuban internal security service activities. In July
1963, UR initiated a shortwave broadcast from station WRUL, New York.
The UR utilized nonobjective, lurid propaganda themes. The UR was also.
a prolific producer of propaganda pamphlets. During 1963-64, 1,442,500

items were mailed to Cuba.and other Latin American countries. On a

-6-)
SECRET.
74-0000

 

sg

‘Swan is another example of an operation which continued after the Bay of

Pigs. It was established ‘in the Spring of 1960 as a component of the

anti-Castro propaganda campaign. It continued in this role until its

. termination in 1968.

3. _ Following the Bay of Pigs and in response to administration

' urgings. to do something about Castro, CIA established a large Station
_ in Miami in September 1961 to continue operations against Cuba. The
- operations described below were developed and run by the Miami Station;

“many of them were still in the developmental stage at the time of

President Kennedy's assassination.

. 4. The Station initiated three major classes of activities:
intelligence col lection/espionage, covert action/propaganda, and
infiltration/exfiltration, actions. It should be noted that there was
no clear delineation between’ these activities, e.g., an exile organi-

zation primarily engaged in propaganda on the Agency's behalf might

_ also provide positive intelligence information from interrogation of

"an exile or provide candidates for an infiltration team to perform

sabotage. It should also be noted that infiltration/exfiltration ac-

_ tions were undertaken for a variety of purposes such as espionage,

sabotage and to assist defectors. Aside from intelligence collection,

- all of the remaining activities would constitute forms of covert action.

~2-

len
 

“Tto4-10006-40145

SAE

CIA OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA PRIOR TO THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.° KENNEDY ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963 —

 

A. “INTRODUCTION :

1. Agency planning and- operations directed at. Cuba during the latter
part of 1959, 1960 and early 1961 were almost totally devoted to the
development of the paramilitary operation which culminated in the Bay of

_ Pigs invasion on —W7 Apri] 1967. During this period, major efforts were :

 

devoted to training a paramilitary force, formation of a Cuban exile
organization in Miami to direct opposition activities and to provide ~~
future Cuban leadership and a propaganda campaign designed to rally op-
position to Castro in Cuba and elsewhere in Latin America. -

2. Some of the actions initiated during 1960-61 continued following
the defeat of the Agency supported Cuban brigade. For example, prior to
the break in diplomatic relations between Cuba and the U.S. on 3 January

' 7961, CIA maintained a Station in Havana. This Station recruited and
| trained intelligence agents and procured and cached communications
equipment to form a staybehind net to provide intelligence -on Cuba
following the break in diplomatic relations. Following the Bay of Pigs
defeat, this net continued to function providing information on Cuba

‘via radio communication and Latin American diplomatic pouches. Radio

: ‘ -E2, IMPDET
i . s ET CL BY 055636
74-0000

SECRET

 

B. COVERT ACTION/ PROPAGANDA
1. Agency Supported Cuban Exile Organizations:

CIA provided monetary support and guidance to a number of Cuban
exile organizations in the Miami area who disseminated anti-Castro propa-
ganda. Some of these organizations came into existence through Cuban ;
‘exile initiative, but they became largely dependent on CIA to carry on
their activities.

’ a. Directorio Magisterial Revolucionario (DMR):

An exile teachers organization in which CIA became interested

 

in early 1961. DMR produced -a bulletin (Magisterio Cubano Libre) which
was mailed to 18 Latin American countries, to DMR member's and to press and
i radio organizations in the U.S. - Radio programs directed at Cuba were pre-
pared and broadcast over station WMIE, in Miami. Copies of these programs
were sent to various Latin American countries and were broadcast over 88
different stations. The DMR also produced seven TV programs which were
broadcast over Channel 2 in Miami. The theme of DMR propaganda was the.
destruction of the Cuban educational system by Castro. The head of DMR
attended the National Education Association meeting in 1962, gave a talk

at the meeting and was instrumental in having.a resolution.approved con-

 

demning the Castro regime. By the end of 1962, the DMR was mailing out
350,000 booklets and pamphlets a year to various Latin countries and

France.

-~3-.
SECRET
 

SECRET

b. Union Deportiva de Cuba Libre (UDCL):

A sports ortented organization established by CIA in October
1962. Led by a well Known Cuban sports figure and a prominent Cuban
sports writer. Purpose of UDCL was to expose Cuban abuse of international
sporting events for political propaganda purposes. UDCL leaders attended
‘tthe IX Central American and Caribbean Games at Kingston, Jamaica in August
1962, disseminated anti-Castro propaganda and were in part responsible for
. the defection of ten Cuban athletes. A similar operation was Taunched at
the II Ibero-American Games at Madrid in October 1962 with less success. .
Propaganda was distributed and two defections were induced. Pamphlets
were also distributed at the IV Panamerican Games at Sao Paulo, Brazil in
January 1963. No defections were induced. In 1963, the UDCL is. credited
with obtaining a temporary suspension of Cuba from Olympic competition
_ and changing the site of the XVI Amateur Baseball World Championship from
Cuba to another country. | a oe ,

c. Comite DeOrganizaceones Juveniles Cubanas in el Exitio (COJCE):

A youth organization headed by a former Cuban Boy Scout leader.
CIA began support to this organization in December 1962. Starting in duly
1963, COJCE published a monthly bulletin with a distribution of several
thousand copies to Latin American and European youth contacts. Purpose of
bulletin was to furnish information on the effect of Castro-Communist

policies-on Cuban youth.

-~4-
SECRET
