 

wo

   
   
 

: . C
_SEGRET 7 October 1959 -
7 MORANDIM FORy Direotor of Securtty.
sOTENTIOR Langdon \. ne ty
a Support Branch Oo , _
—)-suageer Confirmation of Verbal Request for Installation of

Recording Device in Office of Mr. William De Petleye Os
‘ andy Flovida a ) ed

 

 

. aw ‘Gute will Goaftym the Verbel request ‘nade to Mr,’ Langdon. of ' :
ny your office by Mr. Flores of WE/TII on 5 October 1959 for the installa —
: Aion of a recording device in the office of Hr. William D, Pawley in :
. Mlamt, Florida, for the purpose of making available to the WHD Repre=- re!
_ Bentative in Mami detailed reports ef conversations held by Mr. Pawhey Se
. with his numeréus contects among Caribbean revolutionary groupe, —- a
especially anti—CaSTAO Cuban exile leaders, Hr, Pawley has agreed to —
this plany. whi b was Proposed to hin verbally y the wHD Fopresentative

 
 

oe (2. Mre. Pawley is a a s. cttiaen, bern 7 Septenber 1893. tis lene
6 career in Latin American affairs included a tour as U, 3, Ambassador to -
. | Pera and later to Brasil. In recent years he has engaged in petroleus
> god mining activities in the Dominican Republic ad hag served as a
-*. -gonsultent to the Dominican Government. He has cooperated with this _
.” Agancy-on a. number of occasions and 4s a personal friend of the DCT
. end of OW, “A request for operational approval or security clearance .
” < for re Pawley'!s use in a specific project was made in 1952 but
- eancelled subsequently because of a change in plans. Kr, Kohler of
\.  CF/08- advised that the Security Cffice File No. in connection with no
- this request wae #781435. It is requested thet your office obtain the |
 “Weeessary security clearance for Mire. Pawlay'e use by this. Agency, we
: outlined in paragraph 1. . Pate

 

- Be Since Hr. Pawley*a office is vacated on weekeonds, it 4a -
requested that a representative from your office trevel to Miamioon
. Friday, @ October, or Saturday, 9 October, for the purpose of survey=
‘ing the premises during thia week-end; and that he return to Miami the
-. following weekeend to install the recording device, which is to be
- Used only for callers in person, and not by telephones On arrival in
_. . Mdami, your representative should call Hr. Bernard =, Reichhardt, WHD
- Yepresentative in Miami, who shares an office with the 00 Contacts = -
representatives Room 302, 299 Alhambra Circle, Copal Sables. His home
telephone is x0 Srh238, and his office number is Highland 53-3658.

°. ‘Je C. King : ;
Chief, Wit Division

 

- SECRET
