 

104-10005-10016

i

a ao M8 oe - ae e -

29 July 196)

MEMO

phone .

. 1. Peraconversation this AM with Martin, he has no information
on Soviet: hunting clubs. He never belonged to one, and had been
hunting onBy once in his life. His opinion was that it was not worth
my trouble to come see him in person and that “anything élse he might
say on the subject would be a "poor guess."

2. Bob Steele called about :1hk5 to say oes been
hit on the subject of hunting clubs, and could con’ ute in .
At the age of 1h he had known a hunter, but that was the extent of his
knowledge of the sport. According to Bob, he added nothing further

except to express the opinion that a hunting club would not be connected
directly to a factory.

3. The manual of library acquisitions was reviewed and the only Nove
periodical relating to hunting ebsexved was “Okhota i Okhotnich'ye
Khozyaystvo" which is published monthly. The July 196 copy was acquired
from the Library Periodicals section. A Soviet book listing al1(?)
periodicals was checked and no publications were observed under the
sections which included "sport" and "hunting." Cy of article in "Surv of Sov
Press# relating to Turkmen squeeze on weapon illegalities obtained.

kh. DERYAHIN reports index for DR-2 and SR Ci-2 series reviewed,
but no reports found relating to Soviet hunting clubs or related
subjects. Diaynaim is on LEAVE + Not AVAIL AELE,

5. Peter Bapusta reported that he received a four page repott
in Russian from his other contacts, and will give it to Serge Savitskiy
for translation (:1530). He will also write up what he learned from
ARTAMONOV and have the lot in to me by :0830 tomorrow.

6. #id@eBiGd After calling Dan Bowanko of TSD, went to see him |
at #150 and collected several Xerox copies of pertinent materials.
One original to be teturned. One detaiied roam for obtaining hunting

eigreo

License.
ca 31530
7. Called Libaary Intellofax,for info on run on hunting society.
They said no liklihcod, but would Shack. No call back as of :1710, a

and I was at TSD most ofthat time.

 

8. Al Valpey called in AM on this, Huntley on leave, and Valpey
had no idea who else might have info. Cugsested Intellofax.
