74-00000

 

 

“SCRET
-9-

her to be homosexual

g. Juan David POSADA Is currently employed as cul-
tural counselor with the Cuban Embassy in France. Subject
describes POSADA as an “arty type” who is an excelent
caricaturist.

h. Manuel R. MORALES, listed as an attache with
the Cuban Embassy In France, is believed by Subject tu
be identical with an individual he met who used the nick-
name Tiburon who was an athlete at Habana University
and from Santiago de Cuba.

i. Gustavo MEDIAVILLA de la Pena ia listed as com-
mercial attache with the Cuban Embassy in Germany.
Sabject was acquainted with an individual with this name
who was a cousin of the CHOMON brothers,

 

j. Lionel ALONSO Fiel ta believed by Subject to be

. @ young man who he new from Matanzas Province and

who is now Charge d* Affaires with the Cuban Embassy
in Indonesia.

k. Gustavo ROBRENO Dols, aka El Mago ROBRENO,
is Meted as an attache with the Cuban Embassy in indonesia.
Subject describes ROBRENO as a very unstabls individual,

: ” Qnee while drunk, he shot an American in a Cuban bar.

Hie ia married to a former prostitute.
1, Jose R, LINARES De!cado is Msted as an attache

‘with the Cuban Embassy In Iraq. Subject believes he was

at one time acquainted ith LINARES who was connected
With ihe Manoio CASTRO grevz at the University of Habana,
Subject describes LINARES as a slender individual with &
pisasant personality. He ia a mulatto,

m, Gustavo ARCOS y Barunee is listed as Ambasescor —
te Belgium arg resident in Brugsels, cube
ject stated ARCOS' brother was killed in Santiago de Cuba

“. on 36 July 1953 during the attack on the “Moncada”.

; Terese PROENZA, Neted os eultural L attache, Toird
Bocreiary with the Cuban i Rmbacay in Mexico, ja relaisé
“to the Cubana ‘Airlines represe é

    
 

 
   
   

ai co, Subject

Snetaded true gutemate . :
taxngradieg and
_fecleaaitistion |

SSGRET

 
74-0000

-10-

described PROENZA as a cold-blooded enotionleas woman
who is nicknamed "the mummy",

i
|
{
0. Sitvino SORHEGUY Matos is Heted as the Cuban _
i Minister to Saudl Arabla with residence in Cairo. Subject
kmows SORHEGUY to have been once a Cuban foreign ser-
?
|
t

vice representative to “orcuras and to havo been declared
PNG by that country,

p. Jose Antonio PULIDO ‘Ledesma is Hsted as consul

: to the C mbassy in, ject knows PULIDO'
: @a being a good friend of Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeche, ’
: Ambassador to Morocco,

q. Armando PEREZ Pinto is Usted as commercial

counselor t Pa inthe USSR, Subject

., beleves PEREZ is not of Cuban birth, butfrom Haiti —
Subject could only say that PEREZ was a nice young man,

born about 1935, who did not give the impression of being
8 fabid Communist. :

SUARBE and thinks be is Puerto Rican or Vonezuelan by .
* - birth rather than a Cuban, . :
& Laura MENESES de Albizu Campos: According to
| Subject, MENESES fa not a Cuban bat not sure. of her
» wetonality, . Although he mst MENESES he is unable to =
. Supply further significant dats, : .

; i. Gilberto MEDIAVILLA te Meted ag g third sscretary
of the Cuban Delogaticn to the Unitad Natlous. Subject sus-
pects that MEDIAVILLA is a ecustc to the CHOMON brothers.

 

at
il, Orlando PEREZ was met by Subject during{hie tour in Moscow)
PEREZ was the Charge d' Alfetras pe tis Caben Embassy in Moscow,
Subject became slightly acquainted with PEREZ and obtained the impres-
@loathat PEREZ is not pro-Castro, He is married to an American
Citizen, Rina PEREZ, nee Grosaman, PEREZ. has since quit the foreign
service and cccupies 2 oosiilon with ile Nuiional Banis of Cuba. -

SECRET,

|

}

|

ne ¥, Juan JUARBE y Juarbs is Usted as the counselor
“of the Ciban Delegtlow ie tis United Nations, Subject knows
b

  

- gor-334ags °F

 
74-0000

nate eeenaann np sonemmgnarer same img |: emanating 8 anne anit centers
tee nen ON -

- SERET:

‘well acquainted enough to describe their Personalities or otherwise aid

in an operational approach to them. We are listing them below, how-
ever, in the event some of them may be. of specific operational interest -
to SAS/F] components, Any individuals falliag into this category can be
the subject of future detailed debriefing on the occasion of my next meet-

“a. Jorge SERGUERA Piviert, aka Papito, is currently
Cubana

_ _the to Algeria, According to Subject,
“*” SERGUERA is a homosexual,

b Eduardo MACHADO Cartas, born about 19365 in

-- Lajas, Cuba, fa proseitly soled terme Dut 32 Airlines

representative in Canada according to latest KUBARK
information, Subject hasn't seen MACHADO for about
twenty years, but used to know him well in that be dated
MACHADO’'s sister and in this fashion met him and the

le

€ Jose BARRIAL eae:
on. Smee appearing on tho Kil Het to be incorrect,

_ BARRIAL is sted as Charge d' Affaires, minister coun-
' Gelor vt te Cuban Enibasay in Chile, Subject knew an
individual of this name who was associated with the same
revobitionary group to which Manolo CASTRO belonged,

. ‘d, Manvel PAYAN Viego ta originally from Slego de
Avila, Cubs.” During OTA's regime, PAYAN was |.
etedying in Spain. Subject does not belisve PAYAN to be -

a Communist. PAYAN's wife ia believed .to be identical with
‘Maria Antonin RODRIGUEZ aa Payasn whe is also listed as
- 88 Smployes of the Cuban Embassy in Chile. :

@. Oscar PINO Santoa, Cubaa Ambassador to China,
fis an acquaintance of Subject. Subject was unable to provide
farther worthwhile information on PINO. a

ne i. Flora DIAZ Parrado, born about 1910, te currently
Gmployed as a counselor with the Cuban Embassy in France,

. Subject believes that DIAZ is apolitical and has been a mem~- ;

os. ber of the foreign service for a long time. He also belleves

  

seoner lees"

  

| on

 
74-0000

2h 64m

oe ce

erence eens anNnee ete EGET ENTE

 

would be involved since ho would be under surveillance by K\UBARK
officers at ail times and would serve only as a means of effecting the
introduction of KUBARK to AZCUK, Although we cannot be certain,

we feo] that 1. properly presented Subject would cooperate with KUBARK
in auch @ venture,

. 8, The information reflected above and relating to RODRIGUEZ,
BLANCO, Floreal CHOMON, and Faure CHOMON, will be. made avail-
abli to SAS/} 1 ‘n order to determine whether or not they may be interested
in exploiting these leads. An operation involving the preparation of a
letter by Subject for- forwarding to Faure CHOMON would be atmple to
prepare but difficult to carry out in that we do not have a current home
address for hia.. Subject indicated that he believed Faure CHOMON in
1962 ved on First street, #205, Apt. 7, in Habana, However, we cane |
pet be sure that this address is current, Subject indicated that perhapa
(imu) San Pedro y Grillo ving at Anunciacion 10, th floor, in Madrid,
as-ef 1961, is probably tr. firet wife or anuther relative of Fau:e CHOMON,
She ts alegedly {be cukural attache with the Cuban Zmbasey in Madrid,
Perhaps it would bis to obtain CHOMON's gurrent_acdre

 

"of two individuals from Subject who he believed definitely to be G-2

 

ec ee

ss
through Cos 3: Conceivably(CO3 Madrid|could a ire
o place infercepte on this address
‘@ current home addrese in Habana, Aseuming
be is corresponding with this individual,

% MISCELLANEOUS: We were cniy able to obtain the names

when he visited Subject in May of 1961 at the Argeniine En.bassy in ,
“Habana, The first of theese was Carlos FIGARELLO, aka El Chino, = 7
FIGAREL‘O was born about 1930 and Subject was able to say little more

about him than this in as much as he spent most of the time during this

gageting tacking with Faurs CHOMON, Os CHOBON's second viail to

the Argentine Embassy he was accompanied by (fnu) JIMENEZ, aka

Bimenits, also bors about 1930 and the son of (ims) Santee JIMENEZ,

JIMENEZ wea, according to Subject, at ona time the director. of the
revolutloniry nowepaper "Combate". Subject was unable to aupply

further tzformation on this individual, nd

officers, Thase were the veividuals who accompanied Faure CHOMON : |

“cs .10,. Subject-was shown the KUBARK list of Cuban diplomatic

and consular perfonnel sbroad dated April 1963 and was able to identify

&® number of individuals appearing on this List as known to him. These .
individuals would be basically FI leeds and Subject indicated ho was nct =’

_ SECRET oe hr

 
74-0000

SECRET
-5-

@zample of BLANCO’
fact that be and bls w.

d@, Faure CHOMON Medtavilla (201-270370): In ese
aeace ect was only able to reiterate the background
information oa CHOMON outlined ta paragraph $ of UFCW
3696, 13 January 1963, In order to place hia relationship
With CHOMON ta Derepective, Subject produced a porgonal
_ letter to him fron CHOMON which was written in January
.., $068 and referred to Subject in the moat familiar of terms,
* Bubsjecz alleged that CHOMON bas confided in him on many
ctecene  Mpattera of persona! and political nature for many yoara.
: Aé 03 example, he cited a difficulty la which CHOMON
+, betame tavoived during his tenure aa Ambassador to the
- © U88R and while subject waalstationed in MoscoW,. CHOMON cy .
at that time was having an affair with a Russian translater/
Seeretary assigned to him by the Soviets,

Tale person's
husband became knowledgeable of the relat

jonship between

cen Pe bis wife and CHOMON and beat on the door of the Cuban

EBmbasay ons day and proceeded to demand that CHOMON
_ Mave bie wife alone, Subsequently a formal protest wag
. Peceived through Soviet foreign service channels, As a - 4
-Fesult of this incident, CLOMON asked Subject tltaie » 2
walk with him |(He didn't trust the Soviets and felt tha _
~Cuben Embogee eas bugged. } im omer to discuss thia
. PToviem ami ihe possible solutica for it. Although CHOMON
did not Bpecifically state anything ta thie vein, Subject
the impression during the last two meetings in |
the Argentine Embassy in early 1962 that CHOMON was

  
 
 

uubject felt it would be worthwhile and alleged his willing-

  

ees “recruitment letter" for mailing to
CHOMON in Cuba, .

  
 
 
   
     
       
 
 
    
    
 
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
74-00000

SECT
~6-

! . @. Floreal CHOMON kediavilla was born about 1630
in Camaguéy, and, according fo laiest KUBARK informa-
tion, is presently Charge d‘ Affa'res of the Cuban Legation
ig iraq. Prior to this assignment, CHOMON was Firat
Secretary with the Cuban En-bassy in Morocco. Subject
deacribed CHOMON as a sensitive, slightly effeminate
individual who is relatively cusinterested in politica, Sube
ject feels that C1iO.ON obtained the position with the
Cuban foreign service by virtue o¢ che fact that he is Faure
CHOMON's brother. Subject feels that F loreal CHOMON
would also welcome an opportunity to talk with him if the
fact of their meeting could be kept from the Cuban govern-
ment, He speculated that any attempt to gain CHOMON's
cooperation would depend on the position Faure CHOMON
bas aseumed toward the Castro regime. Subject feels

that moet of Flcreal CASTRO's decisions are based on the
attitude and opinion of his okier brother Faure, If through
letters from or conversations with his older brother, Floreal
had obtained the impression that Faure was becoming dis-
extiefied with the Castro regime, he probably likewise
would assume such an attitude and conceivably be receptive .
to a recruitment approach,

   
  
     
 
    

ns 9. OPERATIONAL PROPOSALS: We are currently retracing
““"" the individuals Weted In the preceeding paragraph. Upon completion of
these traces, it 1a suggested that a dispatch be prepared to Mexico City
_., Station outlining all information on Esubio AGCUE Including that supplied -
_.» by Subject. This dispatch would also outline Headquarters interest in
- perhaps: uring Subject in an operational approach io AZCUE. Mexico
City Station would be asked to describe the extent to which they could .
euprert exch an. oneration through surveillance of AZCUE, locating hs
- present Fesidence and other information Télative to Gis cursent activities
and political orientation. (Commsnt:) Wo discussed in principle with __
" the Subject whether or not he wild ba williag to travel to Mexico City
‘With a KUBARK case officer for the purpoge of such an approach. Sub-
_ §ect tentatively indicated his willingr.2es to cooperate in such a venture
- bat appeared to nave some reservation rz ibe danger thai might accrue
him, He pointed out.that-he. has a wife and gix chikiren to support and
‘goon expscts to be joined by his father and mother-in-law who are cur-
rently in Miami, We atterapted to reaeoure Subject that very little danger

ae besa hy

SEGRE | oman

 
74-00000

 

SECRET
-Q- :

ofa aecond, also of interest, which he will proceed to discuss to the
Confusion of the first. This problem was perhaps compounded by the
fact that Subject was uncertain as to the type of information of interest

- to KUBARK. He grasped quicaly, however, «he type of information

which would be of most interest to us and it rapidly became less difficult
to get to the meat of the subject we were discussing. Further contact
and debriefing of him will become progressively lesa difficult.

4. We are consolidating the informaticn obtained from Subject
from our two meetings with bim on 2 and 4 May below for reporting

Convenience.

6. Basically Subject is able to supply specific infor mation of
interest. on only five personalities. He knows and was acquainted with
many other personalities in the Cuban government, but his relationship
with them is not close enough to enable him to provide information in i

- gufficient detail or depth to allow valid assessment as to iheir auscep-

ibility to a recruitment or other operational approach,

6. Information on five Cuban government officials, well known

to Subject is set forth below:

a, Esubio AZCUE, born about 1012, 1s presently
employed as a consul at the Cuban Embasay in Maxico
City. AZCUE is a long time friend of Subject. They met
during the mid-1950's when both were involved in revolu-

_ tionary aciivities attempting to bring about a democratic

socialist regime in Cuba. AZCUE ie married to a Spanish en
woman end was involved in the Spanish revolution. He
was a viry close friend of Manolo CASTRO who was
reportedly murdered by a group of Communist left wing
woveleiionsries which included Fidsl CASTRO. About,
1962 AZCUE was living in France and ia believed to have
been arrested by French suthorities om charges resulting
from his involvement in smuggling penieillta | and other
antibiotics into France. Subject believes that AZCUE haa
about five children. During early 1961 while in hexico
City, AZCUE was contacted by Subject in order to obtain
advice re the advisability of his.defecting from the Castro
regime and requesting political asylum in Mexics, Asa

SECRET Ey

aed, aliens

eee iecntntrnesn eo exec Pitre erent RAO

j

 

 
 

[ioetoteatooig] ~

SECRET

LX $20

\

«  —sdG May 1983

; ; : ground
MEMORANDUM OF CONTACT c . Do Not Use

SUBJECT Love as Antonio CASAS Rodrigues) 201 827702)|,

" DATE OF CONTACT : 2 May 1063 (2000 to 2348 Hours); ~
; 4 May 1963 (0200 to 1300 Houra).

t 1, On 1 May 1963 1 travelled to Harrish » Penns: :
' and attempted to contact Subject at his home Blo
at.1930 hours. Subject's son answered the door that his

father was out ror the evening and wasn't expected to return till 2200
nv... hours, At 2200 hours I returned to Subject's home to be advised that:
' . “he bad not yet returned but was expected momentarily. In view of the
late hour, I requested the gon tel! bis father that a representative of .
athe United States Government had called and wished to speak to him on

matters psvtaining to the situation in Cuba, I indicated I would return " 7

    

  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  

about 2000 hours on 2 May.

3. At 2000 hours on 3 May I called at Subject's home and found

bim present. He waa friendly and courteous, requesting that 1 come

_ibte the home where i was introduced to his wife and several of his six
hidren. He requested to see my KUBARK identification which he gave

Only & cursory glance before returning to me. He then indicated his

ve . Complste willingness to supply any information known.to him on the Cuban
u and peraonall!

ta nates &

 

4
Subject and his wife make an excellent impression, They |
iptoceodes to put ma at ease, offered coffee, and generally showed them~ {
. Selves to ba excallent extroverted hosta. Tha subsequent conversation i
lasted until approxtmately 2345 hours and was somewhat general in nsture, —_ - uy

Basically wo rehashed information already provided by Subject during i
-his debriefing by U.S. authorities in Miami and already reflected in his i-

Of file. Subject was rather difficult to debrief in that his English ia 4
».#omewhat fractured and he {se extremely disorganized in his thoughts,
‘Ee haa & lendency to develop.ona theme which In turn will Tenind him |
qT.
7
4

« Boxe 108
SECRET’ Exeuted trem 1233

sare and

ro

 
14-00000

EGRET
-3-

result of this contact Subject obtained the impresaion that
AZCUE is sullesing from a lack of funds, Since AZCUE
is somewhat of a snob and a fancy dresser, he finds this
Gituation unpleasant. AZCUE also habitually hag a mise
tress hich in turn is a drain on hig pockstbook,

{1) According to Subject, AZCUE is an
excellent dratteman who studied architecture
at the University of Habana, although he never
obtained a degree. Subject assesses him as a
kind man, very happy-go-lucky, but impetuous
and one who “blows with the wind", He doesn't
seem to have the powers of concentration or of
single purpose which would allow him to be suc-
cesstul, Subject feels that AZCUE has appended
himself to the Castro regime since it offera him
& purpose in Life and a feeling of belonging to
something.

@) Subject described AZCUE as being a
very brave man. He felt that should AZCUE.be
approached by hUBARK and requested to coop-
: erste, the physical danger inherent to in-place
oa we eee agent work would not affect his decision. In
summary there would be a reascaable chance of
persuading AZCUE to cooperate with KUBARK if ;
a suitable monetary and ideological inducement *
ree o_— “ware offered him, Subject feels, on the basis of
: their 1961 conversations in Mexico City, that
“ ; AZCUE is not toc enthused about the Casiro regime.
und it is possible ne has become even less in
favor of it during the ensuing period. °

 

i

. {8) Subjec. appended that it would be helpful

te fo any approach to AZCUE to attemot te convinces
cermatiownee ee" hom that Fidel CASTRO was directly involved in
: tho "gangster" revolutionary group responsible for : $
Mezclo CASTRO's murder, AZCUE was a very .
clowd iviond of Manolo CASTRO's and was afiected
greatly by his death,

     

“ - SECKET,

ve 8g BI
dottarnit.stly

 
74-00000

Sku...

_—e

b. Enrique RODRIGUEZ Loeches: RODRIGUEZ waa
born about 1912 and is presently Coban Ambassador to
Morecco, RODRIGUEZ was involved for @ long Ume in.
revolutionary attenipts to overthrow the BATISTA and pre.
vious regin-ee in Cuba, He was with CASTRO during the ,
1958-59 period in the Sierra Magatre. Subject became
acquainted with and a clogs friend of RODRIGUEZ when
both were members of the San so-called revolutionary
. "Directorio", Subject alleves that MODRIGUEZ has dise
. Mked CASTRO since their iret meeting during the 1958-99
. period, Both Subject and his wife alle god to have received
@ letter from RODRIGUEZ written ta ths Slerra Maestre
. ia which he ated hie disiiie af CASTRO and among other
things referred to him using the Spaniaa equivalent of the
term "dirty prostitute". Subject advised that unfortunately
oA this letter has been. destroyed. Susject ie convinced that
~- + + va “ff Be met RODRIGUEZ on the etreet tomorrow the latter
. would have no compunctions about situng down for a long
- Giscussion on old times as well as the political situation. ~
~---in Cuba. Subject is also convinced that he could on triendly
terms "talk defection ov recruite.ent” with RODRIGUEZ
should they have the opportunity to meet,

 

 

€. Orlando BLANCO, born about 1922, is married to
“ awoman of Puerto Rican birth which makes ber an American
citizen, BLANCO, according to the Liteat information avatl-
able.to KUBARK, is stationed with the Cuban Embasay in.
Morocco with the rank of counselor. . Subject met BLANC+:
when the latter became subordinate to him in the revolu-
tonary "Directorio" working towards the overthrow cof the
“Batista regime, Despite BLANCO's revolutionary actiyitics

iio wy

 

’ Both BLANCO and-his wife. are believed to have applied for
employment with the Cuban foreign service as a means of
- saving Cuba. Subject feels it is possible they will not return

 
  
  
   

BLANCO was employed in ihe National Bank of Cuba.
-this-peridd Subject- obtained the impression that BLANCO.
had become anti-Caatro. Subject, bowever, assesses BLANCO
&8 & non-Couragenns type of individen! whs might be iPight-
ened at the idea of working as an in-pisees agent. Asan

SE.

 

., Subject assesses him as boing relatively passive politically, =

to Cuba whon their tour in Moroces expires, During 1960-61 °°

 
