 

74-00000 + .

Ree T eek payors.

a “Rose ach freight tote carry’ eboase oA Hts reer and?
“ves - ats : 7

What £9 the average and asilaun specd'of passenger tralas between stops?
Moaleue Speed was $0 siies per hour end svorage of not more than 9D
al tes per nour,

: : °
&. Can you give tha umber of anptoyess of the cossuon carcigr ral leads?
ts thore 2 seasonal variation in esp loypant?

A. 4 can onty speek for the Consolidated Aallways of Cub’ which had over .
_\@-thoussad aspioyésas, Thora was 9 soa one) verlation but it was wary alight, |

Q. Can you daserita the aatn frotght heulag Ge partorn of tha rsilusy tyster
‘Cube? Indicate maler commoditics ond direction of movensat.

A, {Gan speek only for tha Consalldsted Rat tways of Cuba, The mela traffic
wat of. the Cube Ratlrosd and the Wastern Rellroad of Cuba, Tha acaviest traffic *
was from Canequey -t@ Muavitas, Tha Consolidated Aci lways af Cuba Randled vt
one tl rd the Cuban suger crop, $6. thet asst of tha traffic ms from the

‘suger. wbils tothe Coast. However, tha raliecy also Aandlad cattia, ¢lea,
vegetables end off and othar coxsodi ties,

a What 16 the average Jongth of houl? (This was staid in @ 1952 report
an 36.3 Mi losarors. d

A, § would say thas In 1960 Ht wea about the sane ae Tn 952.

Q. whet are the principal routes of passenger moverant? Haw dente are
buch wovements?

A, U would soy to and fron Havana, | would estinate thet in cals cratils
the rallroads carried ebout B14 thousend passengers per day, .

Q. Is dally camsutation o significant tactor Ia tha sovansnt of passengers.

A, it Fe not @ significang factor.

Q. fs loss-thon-cartasd pavement of relailve fegortence 14 the total
wovement of Cunan frel ght?
A, € would sey that [ft ts aot vary Important,

Q. WIth respect to leports ond azports, whet ports ero used for greatoet
Interchenge of tonnoge between. tho rallrowds ong acai sAlpaiag? Ta stat
OAtant ort these sem ports of any others used for interchange with cost tel ee

shipping? |

AL Spaselag for the Consolidated Raliways of Cuba, | wate say dvavi tas,
Yarofa, Posteltilo, Sentisca de Cube, Sagueran, Aniilla, bate Crue dal Sor,
and Casiids, | wowld bay that any interchange with-coestwise Snipging Is

last gal flcunt,
Q@. In what congithon ora the pringipal Kighways of Cubal
A. Tere fo only one calm Righty on the stand whith rons practically the
@ifeg lengen of the I6tand fro Pinar dal Alo to 1s.0he io Santi oge ve Gwe,
Tala higmeny os ia poor canditlam whan § left Lube ta 196).
a

G, wees cecmmadi ties are moved py Hotor Trerssorh ond qaastel el pote :?

. rh Fenian :
A, Sugar, wood ead gawre! commodl ites.
aa 8-8-£-8o M67

een gene nee nee ee ce mma seem mammeane ie ee me ae

 
WaSi pl pallies If

fone -t6 ay dnonii edge.

 
eet

 

$-€-C-8-0-7

00-K sayalassse

cae
Sse samy hes calét pee alloceter of mata Herat whet tyes of. ties are
sD Ore kien treated: UF 8. fn atet -Aanage? “wret Ie the aver ge Site we
te astasting aorvice? Can you give an sitinece, of ‘the averay 7a *

8 noe i tom natn Lined .

iction, ‘tharé are clone to “three thovsakd tree

The tied ar. hard wood But they aro nt temetied.
i, ysdee and 4 iets say Chat the
of tag ties Rowe an ‘the mata-tina 1s ebast Ig-years,

Dineté size of prtnclpel feral ght classification yares and gate
tretjae yorde, . oe .

AL Our apie elessification yards ware at Sente Clare Semaguoy. Roran,:

Seatisso €a° Lome, and Guantanaio,
Qe bocata 1 cescriba tha petneipal fopair shops: for steam and for gietet

“Lotus ves.

A, We hag eumplote repate shops for both sted and dlose! locgootives ta tte |
sastorn cutsbicis of Caaguoy City. Asa mettar of fact, these shops are

Shoun on tw map of Canagusy Clty which Sppesrs oa the road wap of Cima
melting y Esso Stanaard O81, $A, In 1956, .

aL Tha sone sips ‘a Caaaguay Clty sre. used for tha rapale of {ral ght acd
pastonger cara, The Contolldsted Rellways of Cubs did ei] of thelr ova tepel rs
sad im sééiticn they did work for varlous suger allis in the ares.

&. fs ay port of the systes aloctrl fled?

A. to.

_& ts there s ¢Tviston botwocn Ilnes operated by diesel ond stees active pacer?

A, Mo, Tae Garsclic.td Raltways of Cuba hed 84 dlesois ond six stece exgiaas,
The sha stam engines wore uted gore of 1as3 for csorgency work,

Q. Wher is che mmber and total length of. tunnale?

A, There are oo tunnels om the Bytter.

Q. State tim meer of locamat} ves ta each asjor category, of dlovel, areas
ang electric; and, insofar 49 possible, break the totals dam dy horeapaer,

O20 One Coaetry of origin,

AL fet Reve steted, wa hod 84 dtesal engines and sla tase enginos. » ta sot
recanber tha ¢utalts about these but | hacw thet sans of the diesels aera
1600 horsegmesr, some 900 and sons 604 to 650 horsepower {sco 80-K-}, 5397. .

&. Please give the munber of passenger care and the member of feleghs care.

AL f'm étraie that § consot give you eecurete figured. | know thet we bad over
two thoesant frolght cart but 1 de .9¢ romnezer the axect number mor cal.
recceper ine oubar of passenger care. Lieo 90-K-3,903,001, The “on tet

eaterial costings this Inforett
Ware axy passenger of trelght cara equipped with roller desriags?
Yes, same, but | do aot remember how many,
Are gieaai locomotives epereted ia aeltiple?

Yaa, bet ont atuays, U1 dopants on the pelgat of tho Erpin tad whe”
sense of the Hae. . ela ¢

* preach

on ap tmntee

 

Sevan tat SOL te mn eee et

 
   

      
   
     
    
      
    
  
             
     
             

Ho 2 ninety temas as sir nye Netione: Daren
2 WISE ene Oe ee eee women eee on

pate ote

    

ee MO Pacts

 

TETEENCES : ot
Supplementary te WAN 3,905,800
€9/29 Cave A3SIE of

pecneecen

 

 

 

cNiotwat on,

 

 

Me pirate eine ee EM

 

 

 

2. & Con you toll ag what was the langth vf the mala lines aasrete! by
cama carriers In Cuaa aad whet wis the Rotel length af alt gear.
Vinge coainad?

   

  

ALF can onty soosk for the allesga of thi Contolldated Rallwcys of | .,
Coba, watch ran from Sante Clara to Camsguey to Santiago os Cuba ta"
Gosrtanana. | would sry thot tha sala Hine ond the drancaas cacdinad
wauld be 1409 plus miles, :

J. Mag walgnt of rath ds rast corcon on halo Hacat Wtat ib sts
Sdproalnaia esa of mast malnelica rall and are tis pleiss cmoniy ward?

» te

      
       
       

 
  
 
 

    

A. $ would Soy the aost commonly used rad! tec) tus par yard. Ay
33 per cont of the male lina has 125 bbs zoe y. Sidi

65 Ibe per yard. The agaracinate aja of Ht
15 to 29 yoort. Tle plates

    

  

 

ere
NAGR cE

RECORD COrY
 

H NE a RTI CTN Tne al em ONE ete ae

   

Lo '
SoboCoBageT :

: ; an (OE 32/01959-68

Q. Boss esch fralght trata carry 0 caboose on Its rear ond?

AL Yee : :

Q: Unmet Is the sverage and muslaun speed of pesseagor trains betuena stags?

A, Raalewe speed was $9 ail
ites pee . be 188 per hour and average of not more then 30

e
@. Can you give the aunder of anployess of the comin carrier rallroses?
fe there @ seasana? weriacion ta exalaynont? .

A. 1 can only speak for the Consolidated Mailweys of Cubs which hed ever
19 ‘thousand exptoyass. There was @ Seosone! variation but be was wary slight.

Q. Can you datcribe the main fratght heulege patter of the ralluey syster
of Cubs? indicate asjor commodities and directics of sovewate

A, 4 ean spoek only for the Consolidated Ral tusys of Cubs. The sala eraffic
as on tha Cube Railroed and the Wostera Aatirosd of Cubs. Tre acaviest teaffle
was from Canoquey to Kuavizas, The Consolidarad asl Iways of Cubs handled
one third of..tha Cubsn suger crop, So that eost of the tradfic was Poor tha
suges wits ta the coast. However, tha railvcy sito handled cattie, rice,
vegstables and oll and other cawsoditles.

a What Is the average length of haul? (This was stared ia @ $952 tupert
as 36.3 kilomezers.) .

A, | would sey ther fa 1960 It wes sboug the sang as fa 1952.

@. what are the principal couzes of pescenger soverent? Hn debe are
buch wovercnts?

A. { would sey to and fron Havana. _t would estimate thet Is thls crattle
tha railroads carcled sbavt s1x shousend passengers pet day.

Q. Is dally comuretion # sigaificsnt tector fa the movareat of passengers.
A. 16 ts mot @ significant feetor.
a

Q. fs lossethen-cartosd powumagt of ralaitve Mapostence 14 tho qotal
‘wovement of Cuban freight?

A, 1 would say thet Ig is aot vary Teportant.

@. With respece to laports ont azports, wat ports ére used for greatest
faterchenge cf Lonnege, between. tha railroa’s end occai whipziag? Ts wat
eatan’ oft these om ports of any others used for Daterchanga with cont tei be
tnipptagt © .

A. dpastiag for the Coasaligated Ral lasys of Suna, tf wale say Daavitas
a, Partetilioa, Snghacga de Cuse, Bogusron, Antitle, S.ate Crux dal Ser,
Castida. $ wamld Say thet any interchange with. cvsster se baipaieg fo

faslgal ewat,

 

Q. In what condition era tha grincipel Nigtuays at Cabal

A. Trace 18 only cng cain highway on the boland whtcm rose practlaily the
estira tercth of the Téland froo Pinar det Rio to ba.ene io Santi ege vo Sond,
Tale Algteay sae fm poor candi tion whan t tefe Cuba fa 196),

t

GQ. Whos samedi ties ary moved by ator reanigert ont goaecal obi npte 7
A, tuger, mmpod aad garvera! comodtites. |

* B-G-e Ae EF

 

 
 

 

   

      
       
         
            
      
  
 
    

26. J. Uae fe tne general pattern end atrection of flow of tnis traffic?
‘a, fen dountry te ebttes, ,

27. Q. MRat Considerations dateratng the solaction of ihe scens- of transport
far the aloe cormodities awed?

A, Price, thes, nature of corvaodity, and faci lieias.

33. Q. UNet pigetinen, BF any, are located In Cuda?

A, Mona te ay bnoutedye.

te r

Bokae-

   
 

é-

6. In carly July 1945 TREES and Houts were involved in an
illegal money exchange.

7. Specific charges against HOUTS, as recommended by the
investigating officer: :

a. Misapplication of 50 .45 calibre automatic pistols
and one Model M-3 submachine gun, property of the U.S.

b. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to misapply
the above firearms. :

c. Larceny of 86 swords.

d. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to feloniously
‘take, steal and carry away 86 swords,

e. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to procure
and deal in abandoned property found in Rangoon.

 
 

 

 

THIS COPY4S NOT
FOR RELEASE.

Condensed Information on Sut. Marshall HOUTS from: WASH-SEC-OP-13
folder 14 MHZ -- 618 0 September 1945

NY {ai

/

a.
a. While still at Kyankpyn Major Charles J. TREES

and Captain Carrol C..GARRETSON called HOUTS to their
“tent. .(TREES was HOUTS' Commanding Officer and GARRETSON
was Executive Officer to TREES.) TREES stated that GARRETSON
had discovered fifty-one .45 calibre automatic pistols at
Chitrayong which were “charged out to no one." TREES and
GARRETSON believed they could get a ‘good amount" of money
from the sale of the weapons, but they wanted HOUTS' advice so
they woulen't eet caught. (HOUTS had been in the. FBI). They
otfered HOUTS one-third of the profit and, after several days,

he agreed.

b. On the night of 3-4 July 1945 HOUTS assisted in the
clandestine delivery of the pistols toa Lt, Col. Tun Aung, a
Burmese officer in the "Burma Rifles” for burial, until a market

could be found.

c. On 15 July 1945 HOUTS was quéstioned by the OSS
investigator and assisted him in the recovery of the pistols,

2. During the first week that HOUTS was in Rangoon an informer ;
told him that 90 swords had been buried in the compound of A. Habeeb.
At GARRETSON's cirection and expense HOUTS had the swords cleaned.
On 25 May 1945 HOUTS delivered them to TREES' quarters. On 13 July
1945 TREES quartérs were searched and 36 swords were found and
confiscated by OSS. (Several classified documents were also found in

TREES duttle bag.)

3. TREES, GARRETSON and persunnel under their command
misappropriated property (jewelry and old books) duriny the first two
weeks of the occusation of Rangoon.

4. Six OSS persvnnel were killed ina plane crash early in June.
Three parachutes were recovered from the crashed plane, GARRETSON
and HOUTS had paramas and other articles of clothing tailored from the

parachutes.
3. 0dn Spring 1945 TREES and GARRETSON were involved in the

itlegal sale of opium.

SEY
74-0000

  

    
     
 
 
   
      
       
    
  
 
  
 

. 10s weet ty Sema emer ng Se Nene Deteen ose ihe tate eee
WE SD one 00 Oy meme a meme oe were ee

BeholoRe koh

ee ee ec
ee eee te

   

      

snes Cure
HAE NO We EK RL
MOET og wee, .
Rel tronds . Bart Set Zi Saky 1g9se

NO Pacts

 

Reber

Npplevestary to Nak 3,903,003
€2/2) Case apBit
Sate gad

 

 

       
   
 

 

 

 

 

      
 
    
      
    
 

 
 

  

fon you ta!) ae what was the length vf the naa lince aose.
so. carriers tf Case ead what wet the total length af att gra
Yinas comainsd?

AL besa oaty tcosk for the alleage of tha Consolidates Rai lucys of
Cola, witch can frase Seat> Clara to Comecucy €0 Sansiars a Catia to
Cacvtansta. of mld sry that tha ssia Hine and the drancaes Cori wd
wauld da 13S ptus nites,

  

     

Ro. OY cat of reli ds rast canon om nula bincat teat va sh

s
Suprsaisaie ais af mat ralelics roll aad are tie glcies gumotly uacdt

 
 
  

AL d wuld say a most Comoily uted re
23 oper cont of Ne satan Lica has 125 1
ob ioe war yard. The azarasivate aya of
by £0 29 yours, Tie piatas ars sanaguly used.

       
      
        

 

   

$-€-C-R-E-T

yee
ede Cas eae
Ee

   
 

$-€-€-0-€-7
CO-K 23/9255 3L>
eles

Mave mary gie6 txlat per bilocetar of main Hea? Wat type of ties are

hare t » treated, 18 63, da amet senner? Sret ba ita sverage :ife ZF
tine tn aat c fvtce? Can you give an ettiaste of the everage ogo &%
Lich tne im top mala tine? .

AL Vo the sant of wy racaltactlow, there are clove to threo thausend tes
eAlicester of main Hine, The thas are of. hard woud but they are not treated.

The average ffe of the tles Th abet 15 yours and ( would say that ine

avcrece as 2! the (les now on the aalm Hine Fs bout I$ year.

F.Lccats ans Fr sscate atze af princtpal Fralght classification yords and ether

3.

de,

tralyat porte.

AL Que aeia ¢ ossification yards ware ot Santa Clara, Coneguoy, Moran,
Sartia,2 €o Sue, and Guantanans, °

le Locate sed Cencelbe tha pelncipal sepair shops far stesa and for Siesel
Locanati ves. : ~o . ‘

AL We ned complete resate shoge for both steea and diesel locomotives ia the
sastara outeeiets of Cougusy City. As o mettor of fact, these shops are
he road mes of Cae

thoun on the 949 of Camaquoy City which oppesrs on U
peatinnad by isso Standard O11, $A, In 1956.

2. tocote ad cescribe the principal repeir shops for fralght end pesaarger cord.

A. The sone stays ‘a Cacagway City were used for tha rapate of fralght art
partonger cars. ta Consolidated Rel lweys of Cubs did e!3 of thelr om repalre
aad ia addition they did work for verlous suger mills In the area.

1s avy pert of the syttes etocteifled?

Hae

ts trera 2 ¢tviston betwoan Ines operated by diasel ond stone motive peer?

Mo. Tae Consclicw.cd fatiweys of Cubs had 64 diesels end fm steca engi nas.
sla t2aem engines ware used aore of 1¢e53 foe crargency work.

nar ba tie nuator and total tength of, tunnels?

Tuere ore no tanne!s on the Syiter,

tree tre aumbor of tecanotives Ia each asjor category, of diesel, stems
electra and, insofar ae gossible, Bresk the potals daw by horeapoet,
end ceamiry of origin.

fad, wa hod Gh dleset engines and six tteaa enginas. < to aot

Its about thete but 4 know that soma of the clasele were +
(L300 60-0-3, 83,20.

het pave
reravtar tia
160) horkepumer, scene 900 and scve 609 ta 650 horsepaer

. Please give the nuaber Of passanger care oad the mmber of fetayht sere.

A. fm efraie thot f conmot give you accurate figuras. 3} know that oo Bed aver
two thostant frelgnt care out 1 do oot Faranser the acect mesbor nar Ca a
fe weet tis euber of passenyer cart. {se 00-K-$,903,801, The ‘on 1%

eaterial cottaina this lnfemect

Wore any possenger of fralght core quipped with roller boorlage?

a

A, Yo, some, but § de aot remcmber Row mcry,

g. kre diese! locanstives operated 18 evltipta?

tt depends on tha pal ght ef tho repin aad tha
. at . '

AL Yao, det oot olways,
pete af the Hew. .

6 Leet !

 
