104-101 11-10094 : ( co ws 5 i

a
7 «
oe

 

6 hae

employment 26 & Type A part time employee. In August 1958 Subject
advised that she was divorcing her husband and wished to be reinstated
as a regular staff employee. Her reinstatement was approved and in

vecnmemme

oo cee ene encmremmemnaat e eee

 

 
 
 

November 1959 she waa tr ad pack to Washington, p.G., PCS.
During her employment he was ander|__pover. Back in
Washington she was assig: P/ WH, Support Stash, ogistics —
Section. © . vote Bo

6. In April 1960 Subject legally resumed her maiden name.

7. In May 1960 Subject. was certified to the State Department
in connection with ninety day proposed TDY in Havana, Cuba with
JMARC; and in October 1960 she was transferred from Havana te
Guatemala. oo : . 7 re. a

 

8, In November 1960 Security was advised that according to

information from "the Project" (presumably JMARG) Subject had,
while in Cuba, allegedly been having affaire "with the three people". .
who were tacarcerated in the Cuban jail". This allegation very pos-

untrue. However, @ Security officer on the Project seemed definitely
under the im on that had been having an affair with one of
them, i.e.-: nd was of the opinion that her “immoral
behavior was "a procaDle Zontributing factor" to then recent arrests
of Agency pexsonnel in Cuba. According ;o another version, appar-
ently hers, she went out one evening “a and on other o¢-
casions had group social contact with him and with two other TSD
technicians who arrived in Havana three days before she left to go to
the United States on leave. On the Saturday night prior to her depar-
ture on Sunday, she and het two roommates, ghe said, entertained
these three men in their apartment.

9. In Guatemala, Subject met and dated a Ronald Stanley
DAVIG, an American who was "wanted" by the FBI for car theft and mail
fraud. According to Subject she found this out by checking “the files"
and reported it to her auperiors. Also according to Subject, "It was
decided" that there was ‘po real harm" in continuing her relationship
with this individual tag long a3 I kept o8 guard"; and ahe continued to
date him until the day he suddenly disappeared from Guatemala City
on 24 January 1961. She had, in fact, expected him for dinner the even~
ing of the day he disappeared. . ° ;
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only = == ~~ .
Do Not Reproduce

«Ze

eee
