 

 

 

IMRT eR REO Ot ER enw eee oO te nenanneel: een

 

Sime tninasiisitipiatigiete sathdeyend agoret ente menses

#

20

C. Prior to Dias' departur. the Cuban Air Force had purchased one
Ceh6 and one B-25 sircraft in the Miand area. The aircraft
are in BYERS! custody at present, but are in Fiorini's Hane»
This was done to circumvent refusal of the United States
Governnent to grant export licenses. Until 7 duly Fiorini i

was attempting to force BYERS to sell the aireraft and. turn
the money over to him (Fiorini). ,

De On 6 july, togetaer with Sergio Diaz, Fiorini asked BYERS
hold onte the Cah6 and sell the B-25. Both men said i

in they vould need the C-k6 for their revolutionary plans,

Ee “The Cuban Air’ Force, according to BYERS, is aware of the
situation concerning the two aircraft and will probably
attexpt to forestall any disposition other than one which 4
will give then ultimate possession of the planes.

h, Reichhard says that the lecel FST hes aa active case on

Fiorini.

 

 

 

 

 

_™

 
 

$04-10167-10282)-

 

 

perhimnrene mateeoneee manors aan

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

 

eye teenth yee

 

tania aan Bape anal

8 duly 1959

SUBJECT: The Diaz Lanz Case

shea alan ag Monat

1. Bernie Reichhardt phoned me on the morning of 8 July to report that

Diaz Lanz and his wife are enroute to Washington by train and should arrive

about mid~day 8 duly. They are being brought here by SCHROEDER (fmm), |

Investigatar for the Senate Sub Conmittee on Internzl Security. j

2. Reichhardt phoned later in the day to report that INS had re‘eased

3
A
:
1

the information concerning Diaz' arrival to the press. The release says.

Disz entered the United States on 1 duly -by a small private craft and after
prpetebe

investigation he was declared a resident alien, and his wife was natolied.

The release also says that Diaz had asked INS not to reveal his whereabouts.

 

; 30: Reichhardt also reported the following information received from -
‘arene; a ‘friend of Diat! in Miami with whom we have had contact:
4. Sergio Diaz and Carlos Echigoyen (formerly a civilian in
Cuban Air Force Intelligence), who had obtained a boat in
Miami which was used to bring Tias from.Cuba, had gone to
see BYERS immediately after their release by Immigration

Fiorini, an American eitizen with a reputation. as a shady
businessnan who lives in Miami.

 

. Se Arends .
Be They. said that Seheder, told Pedro Diaz in their presence

3°
4
i
and Naturalization. They were accompanied by one Frank .
~that he is- to appear before the Sub Committee in a secret i

session. Scheder also told Pedro Diaz that he could be

assured of 100% United States Government coogeration in
ee
overthrowing CASTRO. wn : :
——— SCT

 
