74-0000

-~ SECRET FT 168 0

. : - * « (When Filled In) C

{ understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United
States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

I have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of
individuals who ‘have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard
involved in travel to a foreign area or fo resolve any other question which may arise under
this Agreement. we

ol

 

 

 

NAME (Type or Print)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: BLZ a tobe
I. NAME & ADD! AT IO)
Paase — Melal

 

SOciAL security# SC /.2.7. sVX

DATE OF win Check ALG bere

PLACE OF BIRTH fh AS.

 

*The signstor should place hie initials after each Project name.

SECRET
[oe torto-teae] .

 

 

SECRET

(When Filled In)

i
i
/ a”

VON fj i
SPECIAL PROJECT SECRECY AGREEMENT &...

Me

re

i)

1 acknowledge that | have been indoctrinated in the Project identified below and thus
have received highly classified information relating to United States intelligence. collection
activities. | am aware that the unauthorized disclosure or r_negligent haridling “of such in-
formation could sefiotisly “affect the national defense and. ‘that ‘the transmission or revelation

 

Uhave been informed that approval for access to Project information may only be granted
by Project Headquarters. | have also been’ informed that extraordinary. $ Security measures

information is restricted to those who “must know” based | upon their present position or func-
tional use. -1 agree to advise appropriate authorities of any change it my position or func-
tion and will execute_ a Termination Secrecy Agreement upon notification that such is re-
quired. ‘ i

rom

    

' Fealize ‘that a 2 briefing of this scope and depth, “Which identifies” iecacrthip, reveals
codewords, ‘and admits to the ultimate intelligence application of the Project, is given only
to those individuals who have been specifically approved for the. Project identified below at
the highest level and that this type information may not be divulged to individuals with lesser
levels of access. :

| am aware that travel to certain hazardous or denied areas of the world such as the
USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite areas may constitute an unacceptable se-
curity risk and | agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization
from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking such travel,

Having reviewed the above security requirements, | pledge that | will never publish or
reveal, by any means, classified project information to unauthorized persons. Along with
this pledge | recognize and accept the fact that | have a personat and individual responsi-
bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where generated
nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regulations estab-
lished for the Project.

i reruns chy
Do Net Re

 

 

cost. aay, gsretas'e’ SECRET Lecco |
