74-00000

   

@, yr then pre coven ky tn) Rabe 23 i.

 

 

een ot

et Aeberid- (ebay and Corks + ope 4

 

wae eae cet coe Le ”

  

   

pment neem

i :
aa :

BA Ba tonto

   

Be Ss waa

 
74-0000

my SRE

CONTACT REPORT

en ae a

 

 

 

 

“CASE OFFICER: ; TIME: 4 ‘ 7 ——
PROJSCT —:  AMABDUCT » DATE: ‘LijMareh 1971 ' Le
AGENT : AMSNAP-3 "PLACE: a 4
NARRATIVE: FUNDS TASSED: Kope RiCPT RCVD: :

sO : ‘ - 6
. 1. AMSNAP-3 reported on 11 March 1971 that the charges,
of sale of narcotics levied on Jorge ALONSO, the son of : . ‘
Guillermo ALONSO Pujol (AMECRU-1), were dropped (no exact
date given), Jorge was arrested. 21 dune, along with forty

others and charged with being a top figure in the heroin '
und cocaine distribution racket. ' ° :

2, AMSNAP-3 stated that he had talked with a friend

of mie. zay, Ane on the morning of 11 March, BARKER
told him EY ie d spoken to Attorney Miguel SUAREZ.
SUAREZ is a law partner of Fernando FREIRE. FREIRE told

SUAREZ that Jorge ALONSO had been released because all ft
charges tiemming from the 21 June arrest were drepped by, ;
the authorities, Therefore, thera will »e no trial, .

e

          
     

B Jong tine, emt “Fo make it 'wors Pt

   
 
  

boas 4 t ~
an
i a

  

: : .

  

ha aephaneilirealien aR euiiihepammmaibah di deeel

a
an (nena aeettaae Reo RTA Sa

i + .
GO re be Ee gd om Samed mts ee then 0. camsnapom oe
Coe Sereere re ee of

  

      
74-00000

   
   
   
 
  
  

11 March 1974 4
° . : on ary
- * °
_ ef .
SUBJECT: Bernard Barker

1. POA granted 16 April 1959. ‘Terminated amicably.
on July 1966. Review of Barker's file does not, reyeal
"that he had any association with gambling interests.

Mr. Helms night have confused Barker with Frank Sturgis
: who allegedly had Mafia connections, Please note

Mr. ‘Sturgis was never associated. in any manner with this Agency.
2. Miss Christine Hopkins has discussed Mr. Helms’.
testimony, which appeared in the “Washington Post" on.
, 41 March 1974, with Mr. “Fred Evans, Office of Security,
Mr. Scott Breckenridge, Inspector General's Office,
-and Mr, Lyle Miller, Office of Legislative Counsel. Mr.
Sturbitts received @ call from Mr, ‘Miller carly on 21 March

3074 and referred Mr. Miller to. Miss llopkins who subsequently
' Gaiked to him. . ,

oOo

ere teenie soem sno

      

 

   

epecesiiattie nie mene renter ee are pres cating
Es ie! site a on ‘
e

crm A nL et BENIN RR
 

   

se. a wi e . . : ‘
- - [eo name - ~ £
4 «
© CD unceassieieo Oe Gay ( consivential ——- ()_ SECRET 1
: ; ROUTING AND RECORD SHEGT ate ;
m4 SUBJECT: ‘Opronah °

me Bm Bachews | flelnaa! Sfocti J Spt ye

EXTENSION | #0.

 

. - ke _
DC furt py. "U Draret. 19 74 fob,
done designation, room number, ond [we COMMENTS [Number euch comment to thow from whem pif
to whem, Diow a line ocsoss column efter each comment.) :
erent Mme gh| | is
os Corse Fobkines Gee bo
Vie Gee Tact! Ccintalect Coca Veo
foie a Liake tO
; ey os

 

 

Jt 610 ina Co seent CONFIOKITIAL Oo ay

"ED UNCLASSIetED
 

 

oe .
ee srEcrer 4
t ; . 18 April 1974
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD _ ‘

 

SUBJECT: Request from OGC for Signed Copy of Bernard 8 ‘
; BARKER's Contract
.

been able to Iscate a signed copy of Bernard Barker's contract

 

which we were unable to locate a few days ago. The answer 7 : | t
4
:

 

was no. I took advantage of presence at Hea.

 

  
    
    

 

| 2, On 18 April 1974 Mr. Dietd of OGC asked if I had

on TDY to ascertain whether a signed copy of BARKER's contract
‘@uld possibly /at GH Station(— Pete said with

certainty there was no signed copy at Statio/_____j|aince
much of the material at the Station had been destroyed. Also,

     
    

. @ince BARKER was terminated in mid=1966, the Station file
ehould have been transferred to Hqs. back then.

      

“fhe passed the foregoing informaton to Mr. Dieta’
* whe simply asked that I double check with WH/Contracte and

-‘¢he Contract Personnel Division for sane which I promised to
ée and advise. ;

     
  
    
 
 
 

 

  
   

WD Task force
_ Watergate
 

      

  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
    
  

a SECRET Gay

    

. 15 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Information in te Watergate Passed to Mr.
Dietl of OLC

 

eee ne en ee ce TE

1. On 15 April 1974 I gave to Mr. Dietl of OLC the
following documents which. he requested:

a. Copy ot AMSNAP-3's Secrecy Agreement dated

3 Apri 1965, which I translated for hin

 

verbally cat the desk.
ve _ o . .. :fie Copy of Termination Secrecy Oathlby Bernard
8 ae Barker dated 12 August 1966, Also a Gena
Release signed by Barker 12 August 10966,

 

io" Oheid Hopkins
us WH/@ G,'us

8010381080.
£05=86003'

 
 

“SeSRET

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
      
       
     
   
       
      
       
    
         
      
    
       
        
 
   
  

 

19 April 1974.

Nome wee

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD PS)

. i . if

SUBJECT: Limited Release from Secrecy Agreement-- , & pe, a

Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio R. MartinegsA ye 47 ‘4 i
ns wr, ‘ oo

i a) | |

|

¢ yo an v
/ : afl oo
i. In preparing the letter of 18 April 1974 (copy attached) 7 :
from the General Counsel to Daniel E<“Schultz in response to Mr.

Schultz's letter of 9 April, I obcained from Ms. Chris Hopkins, :
WH/COG (x-1325), copies of (1) w secrecy agreement (in Spanish) ;
by Eugenio Rolando Martinez dated 3 April 1965, (2) an unexccuted ot

7

contract (an executed copy cannot be located) between the U.S.

, Government and Mr. Cite rnard L. Barker)
and (3) a tormination secrecy oath Sig y Bernard L. Barker 3
dated 12 August 1966. Copics of those documents are attached. ~ d

2. After discussing the matter with Mr, David Phillips,
C/WH Division, 1 prepared the 18 April fettor adding the second
Bentence of the first paragraph at the request of Mz.
AC/WH/CCG (x-1948). After completing the letter, Ceoordinated
it on 13 April 1974 with Mr.[____Jund agreed to vond him a copy
of the final, oO

. 3, On 16 April f met with Mr, Schults, £ questioned him
ag to hie intentions regarding the information he was seuking os,
in the Agancy's view, elearly thera je no connoction bstwean the

" Aganey's association with Messra, Darker and Martines and the

 gubject case, Mr. Sohults-explained that he, ae the lawyer repre

| genting them, fowia cbligated to know what they did for the Agenay
- dn ordad that he can mabe the dutoriningtion ne to whether 48 te
velevant to the currunt telal--currantly schaduled foe 17 June.

> He teantluned that te date both Moser. Barkar uel Moetinas had

hein campletely unwilllng ty diectse any aapect of theiy duttua
with the Agsney. ‘Thay hart buen reluctent to uven aukniwlndge

 

 

  
   

 
 

oy

 

Ba IMPDRT
_ Gb BY osaand

iti

   
 

 

‘04-(0164-(0000) *

‘ »

 

. SECRET

£

. 19 April 1974
| MEMORANDUM FOR TRE RECORD

SUBJECT; Bernard BARKER's Contract : 4

1. Mr. Hudson of Finance Division called this date
concerning his search for a copy of Bernard BARKER's signed
contract with the Agency. He is unable to locate it. Mr. Bo t
Hudson has talked with Jan in Contract Personnel Office

 

and asked that I check with her re same.

2. I called Jan on X 9179 and asked that she request
any information on Bernard BARKER availabie at Headquarters
off in Archives either under his name or hia pseudonym

 

 

 

She is to make a request on # priority
basis. Any available information should he provided to this
. @fice by 93 April 1974, ;

 

     

Petes ohare
 

 

“SEUKEE

» oo» cA a

   
   
       
      
      
   

their association with the Agency. I explained tlic Agency's serious
reservations concerning the possibility of compromise of agents and
operations that are still in being. 1 explained that the Agency con-
tinues to have associations with some of the individuals with whom
Messrs, Barker and Martinez had contact during their Agency
association. Mr..Schultz seemed to appreciate this problem. Thus,
in order to attempt to protect those individuals, I explained that the
” Agency is currently not in a position to give Messrs. Barker and
Martinez blanket authorization to identify individuals with whom they
had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz readily
acknowledged those conditions. . .
4. I mentioned to Mr, Schult» that if, as a result of the
discussions that are now being authorized, Mr. Schultz believes
that certain individuals need to be identified he can make such a
narrow request to the Agency at that time. I made no guarantee
that we would approve such a request, only that we would consider
it In view of (1) the rationale that Mr. Schultz would offer as to his
nena, (2) the possibility of publication, (3) the damage to current
operations, and (4) the precedent in terms of weakening the confi-
dence of current and po‘ontial Agency relationships. :

’

: » EDWIN DIETEL
: Assistant Goneral Counsel

‘eet 0 ee . .
OLC : : :
D/Socurity
wC/wu/coa

 

 

oe ht rere 1 ete

 

 

 

“|
|
2 |
ot

 

 
     

  
 
   
     
   
    
      
        
       
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
     
   
      

TA Tee ge nee leat: crete Sa athe oe Akon et

4 . i

~ XC RAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC™ |
aa WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

 

1B Aprit 1974

é a

Daniel E. Schultz, Esq.
Schultz & Overby

1990 M Strect, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

Dear Mr. Schultz:

Re: Defendants Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio
R. Martinez, in the cage of United States v.

Ehrlichman, et al., Criminal No. 74-116, 0.5.
District Court for the District of Columbia

In responge to your letter to me of 9 April, this letter will
serve to authorize Messrs. Barker and Martinez, pursuant to their
security agreements with this Agency, to discuss with you their
employinent with this Agency. This authorization does not include,
however, the identification of individuals with which Messrs. Barker
and Martinez had association or contact in conjunction with thoir
duties for this Agoncy.

You recognize that during thoae conversations some infor-
mation may ba revealed that ie clasuiflod. Awa result, it ie herein
agreed that you will not reveal eny laformation concerning the employ~
ment by this Agency of clther Mr. Barker or Me. Martines without
the prior written approval of the Central Intelligence Agency, 1
appreciate your cooperation in this matter and acknowledgment of
the terms of this agreement. ‘ 2

 

  

' Glnceraly,

a | UN Ee ag
Jecha \ OR bb tee
1 Fdohn &, Warner

;; General Counsel

 
 
 
  

  
 

 

 

   
 

: Pe Oe eek
ROWLEDOEL,

Panlel B, Behuits

"ges Pho Hongenble Laon Jaworski

[~

af

  
