 

ret: wo _ . WR ‘Od {
foto] an ', 30 Sep. _ ser. 1976 ,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

. : oo, RETUR
_ FROM: ‘Andrew J. Percival Background Uo
Office of General Counsel Do Not Reproduce.

SUBJECT: Agency Connections with the Grand Bahama

Development Company

REFERENCE: A. Memo fm C/CCS for Dep. Gen. Counsel, dtd
15 Sept. 76, Same Subj., OGC 76-5044

B. Memo fm D/OS, for OGC, dtd 3 Sept. 76, Subj:

Grand Bahama Development Corp. and Wallace Groves
OGC 76~4861 ; -

1. Referent B forwards an analysis of possible Agency involvement _
with suspected criminal elements in the Bahamas. Referent A is a commentary
on this analysis that details CCS relationships with individuals associated
with a company that is reputed to be an employer of organized crime
figures. No specific fact is presented that would legally raise the suspicion
of the commission of a violation of law, morality or ethics by the U.S.

citizen businessmen now cooperating with this Agency: Major General
: William P. Fisher (USAF-Ret.); Mr. John P. Roulett CUSN-Ret.); and

~ "Mrv AIBért Whisnant. -

2. In the sensitivity of this time, it would be imprudent not to

~ recognize that mere proximity to unsavory elements is sufficient for some
to suggest guilt by association. This Agency recognizing that. unfortunate

_ fact of life has an obligation to protect the rights of those upon whom we

_ have prevailed te cooperate. The only direct method immediately, apparent
is to sever our relationship with voiced gratitude for past serviéés in the
national interest. The timing proposed by C/CCS in referent A appears

' appropriate. : ,

 

3. It should be noted that General Fisher's son is.a
That fact dictates that every effort be made. to contain the substance of this”
and referent memoranda to the narrowest possible audience to preclude
unwarranted acrimony and suspicion until proof positive of eviljor criminal
activity is certain, which event is extremely doubtful.

RG ew

 

   
  

 
 

J. Percival

 

Ly, , |

ce: Mr. Merrison

Mr. Isenstead . fee@nnnr eu mer 74:

Mr. Combine SECRET, gg a377 "(Ge fy

 
