13-00000

    
  

UO . CU

 

 

CLASSIFICATION Di... ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH : ; SECRET

  
  
  

   

-UPGA-10234

 

after mulling. the whole thing over[_—“‘“s«dW decided that he did
not want to be. bound.by such an agreement, and was honest enough
to cancel it: in’a Straightforward manner.

 
        
   

     

Ir. Production

  
  
   
 
       
  
  

: disseminable reports were credited to Subject

 
  

FG-3006 (cable) from Frank Fiorini, "Planned
-Raid on Cuba by DIAZ Lanz Brothers".

 
  
 

 

FG-3089 (cable) from Jose ARIOLA, "Commando
Invasion of Cuba a Hoax",

       
   

FG=3108 (cable) from Frank Fiorini, "Current
Activities of Frank Fiorini®.

       
         
   
   
 

  

. Bee In: addition’ ‘to the above, Subject conducted lengthy
debriefings of..several UR executives who came out of asylum in
June. ‘These were very. valuable as operational data for the handl-
ing of JMWAVE relations with that organization. Subject also has
been of opnsiderable assistance in general legwork among the :
various Cuban. exile individuals and groups who are not otherwise
easily accessible to > SMWAVE «

    
     
     
       
        
       
       
     
     
    

 

MTA Financial

Bae Subject + was paid $420.07 as salary for the month of
June ($800. minus withholding for income tax). He was reimbursed.
$86.87 for operational expenditures made during the period 25 May -
24 June: 1963... 02 . :

 

Iv. “Future: Plans |

Te ‘Subject. has shown a flair for intensive debriefing of
operational prospects in addition to his demonstrated ability in
extensive sampling: of opinion and intention in the Cuban exile
community. It: is planned to assign him a number of operational
leads of undetermined: potential. His preliminary findings can
save valuable case (officer time in separating the wheat from the
chaff. - -

  

“END OF DISPATCH

xp 00 xAbl

PAGE NO.
[| CONTINUED

    
     

CLASSIFICATION

    

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

   

SECRET ~2-

 

 
 

(0e-10048-10150]

Ay?

: oe
. re

i |
- - SECRET.

pee ae rested
| __[ vo twoextva aequiag |

ONLY SEAvORARTERS DESK
CAN HODGE IND SUDGE NDING

MCW seer
Ee ee

     

 
      

    
     
    
 
   
 

STURGIS Des

 

 

 

; ‘ Devel ant as a possible
inti. candidate ‘was. -suspended when PM Branch indicated that he

lacked the’ ‘prerequisite’ technical knowledge and eee ee Prior

      
     
         

 

 

to full. termination, Subject will arrange for turnover ...

to a PM case officer. for-an interview which wi letermine whether
might® manifest: eertain qualities which were not evident
in his dossier but. which might be accepted as equivalent to the
usual. recruitment: prerequisites. If the results of this inter-

. view are > Regats ontact with will be dropped.

 

 

     
        
       
       
      

 

 

  

fkeho had indicated in May that
he would” “be a: penetration OF the residual CRC, had second thoughts
in June, and:told Subject. that he would prefer to retain discre-
tion on the amount: and type of information he would mi Since
‘there had. béen no binding commaitments-made. to by Subject,
it.was decided to revert to the previous relationship in which
the former occasionally supplied information on a voluntary basis.
Subject assumes that~his recruitment pitch was accepted for lack
of any real. reason on the part of["]to refuse, but that~ >

 

 

(CONTINUED)

Distribution: °.
3 =. C/SAS)

D ooarb!
