[roatorae-0236)..

 

 

~ CIA INTERNAL, USE omy = CONFIDENTIAL Obnrere

 

a on
}

Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday ~ 5 November 1976

 

H S C A - Page 3
L77-c01e/¥ el

*8. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff
Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to clarify a report.
we had received from our that a group of five Select
Committee members were p anning to visit Tokyo, but not before 15 Noveniber,
Miller knew nothing about this visit and I so informed Phil Fendig's,

  

 

:‘SA/DO/O, office.

9, {Internal Use Only .~ DFM) LIAISON Called Elliot Maxwell,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding Senator Walter.
Huddleston's (D., Ky.) proposed trip to Israel which Maxwell had mentioned
to me at the CI briefing on 3 November. Maxwell said it now appeared the
trip was off-and he would let me know if there was any change in that status.

10. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Called Sherry Towell, Senate .
Select Committee on Committees staff, I told Ms. Towell I was. very
interested in the work of the Committee and would appreciate any informaticn
she could give me about the Committee's recommendations for restructuring
of the Senate committee system, She put my name on the mailing list and
offered to send me some material immediately. She also said that the
Select Committee would have their recommendations considered as the first
order of business in the new Congress so that no comrnittee assignments
would be made until the Senate had considered the recommendations.

ll. (Unclassified ~ LLM) LIAISON Jacqueline Hess, House Select’
s 3 7 : ippamencee ers e
Committes-on wesassitwtionaystaff, called concerning the request regarding’
the number of CIA. people involved in the Warren Commission. After

 

- checking with Scott Breckinridge, Deputy Inspector General, I told her

that the number was approximately 50 professionals, 12 of them ona

. relatively full-time basis, somewhat up from the figures of 30 and 10

which I had provided Patricia Orr, also on the Committee staff, on
Wednesday. :

12. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON Received a call from Debby
Machemehl,. on the staff of Representative Edwin D. Eshleman (R., Pa.),
who said that the Congressman was retiring and that his Administrative
Assistant, Robert S. Walker, would be taking his place and wanted to
continue receiving the same FBIS reports that Representative Eshleman
is now receiving. After checking with FBIS Liaison, I called Ms. Machemehl
back and told her there would be no problem.

ol 29.

CIA INTERNAL Use OnLy CONFIDENTIAL
