13-00000

SECRET

13. Awe 1966

COmtact REPORT. : . ’
GUBIECT: Seceatact of Gliverio 4, TOMEY Yasalic. (202-283206)

t
t
& i, At 1730 bours, & June G4, the uncercignued. vas advised
' g@@ Bae residence that a itr, TOMEU (Subject) had called the t
security sumber given him (351-6161) and left the peasage that .
be would lite to tala sgaim with Paul Stroud: (the underaiqned) . :
enytine efter 140% houre, 6 June,

 
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
     
 

2, Wpem arriving ot TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 363, 1ea8. ’
Wahler Place 4&2, High Point Apartment Howse, tashington, D. C.), .
1830 hours, & dune, TOHEY incicated to hin two daughters be would
lake te have gene privacy aad they sad hie wife, Caridad, left

the apertucat. .
apolog ‘for noth Lied the nase :
that o Ee reiterated . »
biding Cubam Governneat }

gubeoquent te ais angiltration, he knew only the first aames of
Be came ie contact, but. them added he keew
4a whose bouse be wae hiding, because she.
was the sister o lene of bia. infiltration team .
a eee tT

may. be identical
: 301-253200.5

~289S85; or one.
4. Gm several ecearicas, according te TOMES, ‘he. was aeated
at the table fin Ana's house. wath sovers i ether people.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

" gee eet avere of any reletienekip be’

re iafermation aa tow ine

$e @ ingziltratioa team mate, be suggested
Chat a cE age available they may be able te
Sdent ei ide date on. aie. secconabAlity gor
@eatect.

6. One Caiei COMRALES, forner Cuter ef the. Haynan ¥ire
Begarteent, wae ideatified ty TouKG SG another peesible lead

eg 0 a Me

  

i
i

 
104-10460-10207)

   

 

 

{
1

36 dune 1964

  
    
        
   

Per hia request, Jed Lt. Oliverie
Antonio TOMES Yasalle wes recontscted
oa & dune 64 at his place of reaid-

@ase. He provided additiesal details
SSL revel

 

 

 

 

fied Usiel one
a

eet tae at a ial ee

 
13-00000

enn ae LT SOLES

: ecmnpinecuigmcstiin emetic nome Am mamma

 

 

 

 

SECRET

who would TOHKY affirned Gaiel wae previously .
with KEBUOYO the Second Front of Eaceahray. Osiel
was usder ssylum in the Brazilian Rabeesy (sic, Argeatine —
Eabsasy?), when TUMKU gained political asylum. when Gsiel
finally received hie safe conduct from the Umbessy, he seat
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel i now again
with NENOYO. in either the United States or Puerto Rico,

‘@. Two etap shots (to be returned) vere provided by.
FOMLU. of binself and six other individuals who were in aeylua
at the sewe time. Se identified these, in the photograph in
whic) is seated,

legt to right: Oliverio TOREV.
<helieved to be (U3), Jorge

7), aad ‘ouiel comzALe (us or Puerto Rico?).

 

 

7. Up-n completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU
“eushanged small talk" for a while until] TOMEU finally stated
thet en still wished there was sonething more he could do to
belp free Cube, and awked “What do you think I should do?“
Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of
Gecision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU
ehat alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the
UB Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMED replied that, of course, he was once an.

agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in |
which he could apply his past experience. His. sister had also

6eked him if be felt he and ais family would want to. Live with
ber in Spain or Mexico, but he didn’t think too much of thia
idea, He then atated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTINE
%e take a. job aa an instructor, Without indicating any
esgoctation of even awarenesa of ARTIME's activities, or of
ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (ag incicated in TOMEU's 201),
POMEY waw asked what he thought of ARTINE's proposition,

| FOMEV atated that he would no longer follow any man ae ia

individual. or am a leader, because a main'e ideals, autlovk,

- sad objectives. change with time, For example, the people of
; Guba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated, When

Pidel took cyer, Bie ecconplishasnis gradually becane qdirs

“), GB8ferent from the ideals he had expoused, TOMEU continued
. by saying he would “mo losger gollow a man, One could only.

@rust hia ideals or am organization which followed theae
§deale, aimee good organizetion would be less likely of -
being costrolled by a single maa." When ssked for an example
@f the type of organization he hud in mind, TOMEU replied he
was gost favorably inclined tovards the ideals and goals of
the SURE, (The JURE or JRC ie an organization crested by =.
Banolo RAY Rivero around s. nucleus. of. former 26 July Movement
‘Leaders, S¢0 meno and attachment dated 43 July 1063" ‘from. doha
ugh. Crammiag, Coordinator.of Cubag A re, “ABA, Department
af. Gtste ia '@ 201~283206, )- ;

_. ea

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

SECRET

-3-

®. Et sbould, perhaps, be noted here that in aa informal Py
exchange with Ire. Dosald WEBSTER, TOMEU‘’s supervisor at the
Defense Laagusge Imstitute, Anacoetia Naval Annex, 4 Jame 64, , .
Bra, VEBSTER vyolumteered the information that. “all of the other ,
"Beigede etudents here’ have told ge they think very Bigkly .
of TOURG, emé that he ig « very brave man, because be end. bis
fauily vere very wealthy in Cuba and he gave at ark =p to go
dato exile and fight the Castro Regine.”

 

 
