 

see 1

3 While in Hebana, cembere of the Seminar wre Introduced to ~
Suna COBB; GODOY travelled to Miand oa tha plame with C@B ween abe
tama to Hew York (amd subsecuentiy -ashington) at tke request of
Warry Harnadorf. Twica in i.teder, EALNES contacted CORA in Rew
York efter returning frez ashington. Gm these cecesions he attempted
to elicit infcrastion comcucalag her peasible commections with
"friends" = the implicstion Leing some Intelligence organization,

Be wentioned thet am unnaces American b-d warned his not to see too
euch of COLE im Cuba inascuth as sae was “secretly connected with
the U.S, Goverment™, It ig net inconceivable thet COIR bh self mry
bawe conveyed thia ixpreesicn amd that SAuNTS was only curfous.
Eowsver, on suimequemt occzsicoma, he has expressed gurprise thet
ebe has sot been coatscted, He drops nusca = noms of vbich ring aay
belle with ccas,

&, EARHES hes now anproeched CORB to work on one cf his eeweral
Latin fmericen pro}.ts =

The Tax Institute «f Zarveré

The Latin Americen Eramch cf the U.N,

The Sconcmie Comissice of Latin sarerica with
hesoquartera in Sestiago, Chile

5. According to COza, ames whe vill be working in conjunction
with PREEBISCH of the UX"wents COBB to help coordinste in Latia
avetica. “He wus especially. interested in cy (COB8's) being able to
conmmicate with useful menters of left-wing groups”, “He feels thst
this (the fiasco resulting froa his attenpes to cewrite the tex sw
cf Mexico) was inspired by the extrene vight-wing -—- snd that it is
iadispeusible that sosebocy iovoived in the conteremee preparations
be compatible to the Yeft—wirg groupe", Ye ulll receive core om thie
later after C033 hes kad a chance to find cut wore about BARIES”
projects.

& While there is am actual “derogatory” im the meager infos om

Swbject, CGS5's motes and BARNES om reports for CO/Contacts (copies
attached) usy to some degree indicate leftist sycpathica,

03

Attecipents & : . 3

Distribution: . i

Orig & : ~ Addressee, watts. hfe
~ WAAL

Wi/esCI/Jean Plerson/Bxt. 2635 .

 

 

 
‘(roe t0r75-t0029]

 

 

3 april 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chic, W/%
SURJECT 2 Willem Sprague BA2KES

i, The following curriculum vitae om Wilifea Surague BARNES
appears im “tho's Whe im tae wast™ = 1959:

- Britis, Pah bets OPCaguns
: _ DPOB: 18 August 1919, Mew York City,
. Somof : Albert McClelien end Julia Sprague BARNES

Married Mery Vest on 22 September 1958
Chileren - Christine BASS

A, MeClellen SAZNGS IZ
Besidenca: 1271 A, Brattle, 5%, Cambridge 38, Mass.
Gf ice t 2563 xaas. Ave., Cembridge 14, Mass. i
Religion : Episecessifian (Mass, Dept. Christian i

Education, 32-55)
Harvard - Lew = 1-80/41; 45/87; LLB; 83 (87)
Yale ~ AS @ 1940; LLB Harverd 1943; Gecteur en

. Breit, Univ, Gensva, 1953,

Research Associate im Conparstive Lew.- Guiv.Kichigan

1945-89 .
Seeretary, Internationel Legal Stwiies, Garvard = 1955-35
Assistant Dean = Yarvard = 1955 .
Dircetor World Tax Series, Hervard International Progress

on Taxation 1954, .
Direetor, Buckingher School, Cambridge.
Sarvalas Air Cadet to Captain - USAR ~ 1931-485
Ale tedal with Cluster (arvy)
Distinguished flying Cress -
Member IntereApericen Bar Association (council)
American Association for Comparative Study of Law(Treasurer)

 

2. In Jum 1590 e Seminar on International and Comparative Lew
was crganieed through tha efforts of Bayliss MARTING, Professor of
Lew at Yale, BASNSS of Rervard, Dy, Hames] SISBIS, Cuban Ambassador
and delegate to the United Estfons (deceased) and Srmeste DINICC,

forwer Cubam aubassador to the U.S, am head of the Cuban Bar .esocia-

tion st that tize, oracio GODOY, argeotins lew professor at La Plata
University im argentina, a studant oct Yele until June 1961, prepared
- tha bist of delegstes and the topics to be diacuased,

 

Rese ares ys

 

 
