14-00000

 
   
   

SBCRET ~ UFGA- 12884

BSTC NAN

 

her that he war going to keep his word and release her, but that her

original cell was needed for some new prisoners who were expected. He

said that the DSE had received advance word that a boatload of refugees

were going to try to leave Cuba that night. Many of them were women,
fon one of these was pregnant, so he wanted the larger cell with bath
or them,

44, ABAD pnlways trented AMFAUNA-14 kindly and considerately.
When she had s headache, he ordered aspirin fcr her, Hévsaw to it that
she received soft drinks when she wented them, and he seemed to be-
honestly distressed whenever she wert. AKI'AUNA~14 believes that it had
been the DSE's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, be-
eaguee she doubts that all DSE prisoners are treated as well.

 

48. The firet SW message which AMFAUNA-14 wrote while under DSE
control was dated 10 October, the day of her release. The DSE officers
asked her what her control signal. was, and she replied that it was a
rubrio, but algo included her true control signal. She deliberately
ausbered her first controlled SW message no, 2, to conceal the fact
that she had already written several messages containing intelligence
reporte, —

468, In all she wrote three SW messages. under control, She was ;
ebliged to write each one in duplicate, one ‘of which was mailed and the
other given to the DSE for study... One day "Carlos" came to her very 3
.f amgrily, said he doubted that her carbons were anything more than 7

., oFdinary paper because he had been unable to develop anything that she |

i we aed Gham tan Dd bee wed eh em ee aesmagray dé i a a
‘Rad eedttes, and throatescd her with roarrest. AMTAUNA-14 told tia

that she did not know anything about it, but that 1f by chance he had
tried to deveiop the letters she had written with the pills he had
‘ taken:from her, it would not work, This surprised 'Carios," and
 AMPAUNA-14 explained that there were two different SW systems, one for
outgoing mail and the other for incoming. "Carlos" then asked her if.
' there were. any significance to the size of envelope used, or to the way:
|) the letter paper was folded, AMFAUNA-14 said she did not think so,
Sp. AMPAUNA-14 feels that "Carlos" and ABAD never completely believed that
. 6he bad an SW system, because none of the letters which she received
@isclosed 8W when developed, and none of the letters which she wrote
showed any traces cf @W when held up to glancing light.

i: 47, "Carlos" was the DSE officer who maintained contact with
AMPAUKRA~14 after her release. For two or three weeks he saw her every
' day at her apartment, sometimes for only twenty minutes, and sometimes
ataying for several hours, frequently late at night. Occasionally he
e@lled her at her office. Finally AMFAUNA-14 told him that she had to
got up early in the morning to go to work, and asked him to visit her
‘early in the evening, which he agresd to do. At.the time of the in-

' tercepted AMGLOSSY landing in Pinar del Rio, "Carlos" did not visit
“ANPAUNA-14 for five days. When he finally returned, he was dirty,
aweaty and tired. He dictated an SW letter he wanted AMFAUNA-14 to
-gend to KUBARK, and while she was writing it he fell asleep.

- "@8, AMFAUNA-14 had to prepare written reports for him, which she
: “signed. with the pseudonym "Dolores." He told her never to call him at
‘DSS headquarters, because he was never there. Once he brought her a
book on Marxism to read, and promised to take her someday to visit a
collective farm in Pinar del Rio Province,

49. Despite his occasional efforts to get her to pick up the thread
of the AMFAUNA net, AMFAUNA-14 believes that the primary target she was
.intended to work against. was the AMCOG household. From remarks made by
both ABAD and "Carlos", she deduced that they already had an informer
im the house, but that they were not satisfied with his production,

- foward the end of her period of DSE -controlled activi -ahe felt that
| the DSB was becoming relatively less interested in AM °
‘met, and more in the AMCOG household.

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

* . 80, They asked her about one Vicente LAGO, who 8 a,
|: at. the AHNCOG house and who ‘Seems to be particularly intere:

 
   
 
   
  
  

CONTINUATION OF
. DisPATCH

 
    
   

. Fo1- 941533

They also wanted to know what dip loud s@- Sart the AMCOGs. When she
thee soned the’, one (Toma JUESADA), they exclaimed and said
they were very intereste nh him, and asked whether she could arrange
invitations to His houwe, Other di lJomatic personne AMPAUNA-14 m
tioned as visitors to the Auc ne AX, | FOSCHINI (
mileoguan Italian diplomat), BOISESY :
tnbkensadss ) Sa eae era a @
secretary of ‘the United Arab Republiog Ee bans @ of n former

dapaneae Anbasnador. Fortunately, during the "our weeks following
ARPAUHA- 14° @ release from DSE oust, no diplomats visited the AMCOG

 
           
 
  

   
   
  
    
    
 
 
 

81. With the knowledge a aan oF the A~14
visited the ANCOG house nearly every day. Her first visit took place
at noon on 11 October and she stayed until about 1800 hours, during

which time she told AMCOG-3 the entire story. He listened and took a
few notes, but kept most of the story in his memory. He encouraged

and calmed AMFAUNA-14, told her to follow DSE instructions to the letter
and assured her that KUBARK would send her instructions,

     
    
   
   
   
   
    

of A AMFAUNA-14's immediate preoccupations were AMCUTLER-2 and

BE32 (whom she knew to be blown to the DSE aa KUBARK agents), .
aMPFAURA-39 (who was not yet identified but had her telephone number and
might oal] her at any moment with damaging results to himself), and ~
the possible arrival of SW messages from KUBARK naming other agent
’ personnel.

    
     
   
   
     
     

63. On 11 October, the day after her release, AMFAUNA-14 sent 2
mepoage iv anCUlumn-s 614 AETAUNA-15 ang the mother o2 Mancic YIELAMAnuas

warning her that she had been arrested. She also asked -"AMCOG~3 to send

     
 
 
 
 
   

@ warning to WEE}2, 1+ Ma | Cp bush wy tes 24 Teas apn er oy SS.
re Ee... Sed bow Wart dnad [os OSE |
S84. On 13 or 14 COG-2 went to the home 6 pert i
*PARRILL where she met Wands HINI whom she asked merely to warn
olf 8 that the DSE had AMWRE}2*identified.o Tye or three days later, -
Wanda“ POSCHINI reported back)jto ANCOG~4 that AM 2 evidently was not.

taking Se olaNenE warning seriously. By thie time, howe’ er, AMFAUNA-14 was; :
eure ena toluene knew that something waa wrong, because he had tele- an
‘phoned AMVAUNA-I's mother asking for "Soledad and: had been told that aii)
edad" was unknown, (Regarding Albertina *@'FARRILL'S knowledge of aia

these developmenta, AMFAUNA-14 believes that she probably knew nothing—

Ore, than sel AMPAUNA~ 14 had been arres on released. ) Aq
: . ~ Of A01-
65. On Ober AHFAUNA-14 sent a warning telephone ca 6 35267,

ANPAUNA-39, She dialled 06162) and told the woman who answered "Please
~€e32 Banolo that Soledad calledgtand that he should not telephone me ;

_ because I am going to be out of Havana and will call him when I returns’ om
_ ABPAvRA-14 ie not sure now whether AMCOG-3, whom she consulted on the an
“peat way. to do this, had noted the telephone number.

     
 
 

MODUaTAT

 

   

 

 

87. On 20 October when she arrived home from wov%t;—Ait
found "Carlos" waiting downstairs for her, Trying to divert “his atten-
tion from the mail box, she invited him to come right in, but he asked .
her why she did not open her mail box first. She did so and found two
letters from AMFAUNA-1, dated 19 and 25 September, qhey, both contained
veiled references to names like "Carmina" ( dgtteer")
i

|
ob efauhe A taba COs-a0 — 207 $586 TS- oe
on tO om ARP AUNA=ht—eent—1 ny was her lever nN
whose warnane 4 a PS Unbeknownst +6
3, she sent & message to vie -ABCOG-3'q ensuffeur
telling him to stay away from nerpom sking him te-telephone. her | |
occasionally, a Agi Bown BR —a :
i
I

52571 Ose
(AMPAUHA-37), "Bl Grande" (AMPAUKA-35), andgi'Igor") ( ry 2)91 One of
then instructed AHFAUNA-14 to have, “Carmina” intrdéduce her to "Edgardo"
and the other intimated that ad something for her,

. 88. "Carlos" ordered her to develop these letters, and she did so,
Ho secret writing appeared, which did not surprise AMFAUNA-14 because
the letters themselves contained instructions for her, but it did
 

* UFGA-12804

 

had been involved somehow with her sister who Jives in Florida, ABAD
asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMFAUNA-3, and ahe
@aid that she had been, ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had ever heard
AMPAUKA-3 speak about the Escambray insurgents, AMFAUNA-14 said that
she had not. ABAD asked whether ANFAUNA-3 had had contacts with any
eabassy people, for example the Spanish Embavsy. AMFAUNA-14 said that
she did not know of any such contacts. 7

37. “How abcut AMCUTLER-3?" askec ABAD. "We know that she spends
& lot of time thore," AMFAUNA-14 said she did rot know, ‘

86. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 if she were # revolutionary, AMFAUNA-14
eaid that ehe was not, but that neither was the againat the revolution.
She said that she had joined the militia early in the revolution, but
had soop dropped out because there were some things about the revolution
which she did not understand, For instance, she could not understand
why thore should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the
revolution there had been plenty. ABAD expinined that the shortages wer
the remult of the imperialist blockade of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 seid that
ehe could underatand this, but that it did mot explain why there should |
be a shortage of coffee when Cuba grew its own, ABAD said that coffee
was in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the Soviet Union
in gratitude for Soviet asgistance in overcoming shortages caused by the
imperfaligt blockade, AMFAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical
now that it had been explained to her, and said she wondered why the
revolutionary government did not publicly say so in order to put an end
to public grumbling on the subject. %

30, .Barly in the morning of 9 October, ABAD produced the letter ™
which AMPAUNA-14 received from AMFAUNA~1 on 7 October and held up the
letter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of SW. AMFAUNA-
Ata developer pille were brought, and eha wae tald ta Aavalnan the latta
which she did in the presence of ABAD, "Carlos," and.a third man whom
ahe was unable to get a good look at. All were very surprised and
disappointed when nd secret writing appeared. They kept asking her if
she were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was”
deceiving them. (Station Comment: It is indeed surprising that no
secret writing appeared, because this letter was almost undoubtedly the.
one containing SW message no, 1 to AMFAUNA~14.) °

  

40, AMPAUNA~14 also explained the use of her carbons, The only
accomodation address she gave away was AMF. -1! VE area post
office box. She deliberately protected the pasrene, (the
home of AMPAN-2), not knowing whether this waa a real or a fictitious
person. Mae 24

41. "Carlos" and ABAD now invited AMFAUNA-14 to work with them. She
Feplied that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know
what work would be expected of her, For instance, she said, she would
not inform on people in her office, They told her that this would not
be askedof her, because that sort of work is done by the Defense
Committees. Her work, they said, would be much more important, namely
maintaining & link between themeelves and KUBARK. She said that would
be all right, but she was afraid that it would not last long because —
RUBARK would probably put her on ice as soon as they learned that she
had been arrested, They told her not to worry about that.

42. -"Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AMPAUNA-1 had briefed
her to agree to cooperate with them, She denied this, claiming that she
had not really wanted to work with AMFAUNA-1 at all, but had- merely let
herself be imposed on for old times sake, They asked whether they
could trust her, She said she thought so, and asked whether she could
trust them to keep their promises, They assured her that she could,
and said she would be released the following day. , .

 

43. In the morning of 10 October, after. being. to1d that she was to
be released, AMPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaller cell without a bath. She:
gent for ARAD and complained “that he- had double-crossed her. He told

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
   

‘

, : eo 8
be shown to Angel BRINGAS when and 12 ue Ae Caught,

(g) On 18 or 13 October 1963, after AMFAUNA-14 had been re- -
leased, she was telephoned at her Place of employment by Angel BRINGAS .
whe told her guardedly that "81 Negro” had been arrested and said that
he would like to send a female cousin of hig to talk to AMPAUNA-14. 4
meeting was arranged in the home of AMFAUHA-14's mother, The female
cousin, whose name was "Gladys", told AMWAUNA-14 that BRINGAS had gone
into hiding and wondered whether "the family with which she worked" _
(the ANCOGS) could help him get into asylum. AMFAUNA-14 said that she
doubted this, “Gladys” told AMPAUNA-14 that, in cage it were possible
to do anything for BRINGAS, she should tclephone "Gladye" with an =.
dmnocent message. It was understood that @ meeting would take place at
1800 hours on the same day of the telephune call at the Ten Cent Store
@ird between 10th and 12th in Vedado. AM#AUNA-14 does not remember.
Gladys’ telephone number which was left with her mother.

(h) In spite of what AMFAUNA-14 told the D8E, AMFAUNA-1 had:
bad nothing to do with NEGRET, AMFAUNA-14 had told this story to pro-
tect ABCOG-2, NEGRET had known that AHCOG-2 was involved, and had once
had a meeting with her in her home. Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed
ANCOG-8 on the cover story which she had told the DSE and told her that,
fim case she were ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having
talked to REGRET in her home, but deny having been involved in the
communications channel or knowing anything about it.

Station Comment: Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret appears to be ...
identical With Luis *RBEORE Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion
del Gur, Pinar del Rio), who is carded as ACSI source No, 492 and
appears in AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion
Revolucionaria Democratica. "El Guajiro Bermudez" appears to be iden-
¢ical with Gerardo Jose *QUESADA Vasquez (201-292022) (born 9 May 1919,
Pinar del Rio), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democrati

a ON cna SC82 source Mn, (88, Thare arc na Station traces on Angel BRINGAS.
Ws) wee 1068 Havana telephone dyrectory has no listing btew20-4990,c~08
ak fav. 38 #4 7 OMWA

ww-ayUU ig Listed to Marae. PELABALUL P
hag no traces on him, There ‘ds no listing under 70-8570, However,

| under 70-5579 there ig the Cuban Ra X y Foto, §.A., Calle 23°

| ° | @72, La Rampa.) mae NIH Re. JNRC. Cilevee ke z
: : 4 ~ “BREWS =
17. ABAD appeared to be particularly interested in how NEGRET and

"Julio" obtained their funds, and kept returning to this subject during
the interrogation, ; :

16, ABAD then addressed himself to the contents of the envelope |
and a guitcase found in AMFAUNA-14's apartment. He commented that all
these things appeared to belong to AMFAUNA-1 and his son, and asked how
they happened to be there, AMFAUNA-14 replied that ANFAUNA-1 and his”
eon, together with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her
apartment because their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

   

      
 
     
   
   
   
   
    

19, ABAD wanted to know how and when AMPAUNA-14 had first set
ASPAUHA-1, AMNVAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMFAUNA-1 in about.
February 19062, that AMFAUNA~1 had regularly parked hie car in a lot near
her office and that they had seen each other on the street frequently,
that ASVAUNA~1 head finally spoken to her, and that a friendship had:
develeped which finally turned into a love affair, (Comment: This was
@ ide told to conceal the fact that it had been AMCUTLER-@ who had in--
troduced them.) She said that AMFAUNA-1 had been her lover until about.
duly 1963 when she broke up with him because he was too busy with
clandestine work to pay the proper amount of attention to her,

20, ABAD asked what part AMFAUNA-14 had played in AMFAUNA-l1's .
clandestine activities. AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1..would some-
. times telephone ber late at night to invite her to go out for a ride,
and she would then find that AMFAUNA-1 was going out to have agent
Heotings and wanted her along for cover, ABAD asked whom AMFAUNA-1 had
been meeting. AMPAUNA-14 mentioned a person known as “Gustavo” and

vont :
88a: Ue previous eoition,

      
     
   
   
   
   
   
   

    
       
   
 

 

   
  
  
  

  
 
  
  

Aw EE oto swe

 BECRET | ‘+

  
  
  

es daa eg
+ UFGA=12804:-. |
@ave the physical description of AMFAUNA-24, whom ehe knew to be gatéeiy..-.
out of Cuba. (She never knew AMFAUNA-24's true name.) She also mentioned
Manolo *VILLANANAN, the true name of AMFAUNA-13 (whom ehé- had known
only as AMPAUNA-1's business partner but when she thought she :could .
gafely mention now that he was out of Cuba,) For good measure she addéd
@ notional name and phyeical description. : : : \

 
  
  
     
      
 

21, Referring back to AMFAUNA-1's automobile, ABAD asked what
kind of a car he had drives, AMFAUNA-14 replied that it was a gray
Chevrolet Impala. She repeated that AMFAUNA-1 had formerly parked it
near her office, but said that she had not szen it recently. ABAD |
apked where AMFAUNA-1's red car was, and she said she did not know, He
asked what the license number on this car was, and. she said she did not
fenow. He never asked anything about the third car which AMFAUNA-1 had .

obtained.

92. ABAD commented that the DSE had observed AMFAUNA-1 in his
autemobile in the Havana dock area on 1 January 1963, having a meeting
with another person. (AMPAUNA-14 recalls that thie other person was
AMPAUNA-24, and that he and AMFUANA-1 had rendezvoused in the dock area
after an attempt to pick up AMFAUNA-1's radio.

83. With reference to the KUBARK agent known ag "Julio", whom
they had recently identified with AKFAUNA-1, ABAD said that he knew
that "Julio" had left Cuba in October 1962 and believed that he had

me to Burope, but he said he did not know whether "Julio" had gone

go
Glandestinely or legally. :

       
 
    
 
      
     
    
 
     
 
   
   
   
 
      
    

24. AMPAUNA-14 wae asked about AMFAUNA-1's subsources in other
provinces, but whe said she knew nothing about them, ABAD said he was
eure that ANPAUNA-1 had a good anuree on the Tala af Pinas. Whose war
pase might be "Raul". ABAD also mentioned the name of a person who had
been shot about two weeks previously and who he believed had been work=
ding with ANPAUNA-1. (AMFAUNA-14 does not remember the name of this

percon. )
98. ABAD asked if AMFAUNA-1's son had helped him in this clandés~.
time work. AMFAUNA-14 replied that the son had been with AMFAUNA-1 _

freqeently, but that she thought it was only because he was’helping — .
AMVAUWA-1 with hie businesa and that the son probably had had nothing

to do with clandestine work.

    
       
     
      
      

      
 

26. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papers found in AMFAUNA~14 a
apartment, and aid he could see she was not cooperating with him. She
was not volunteering information, he said, but waiting to be asked
questions, ABAD said he was eure that there waa much that AMPAUNA-14
could tell him spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a-
chance for her to rehabilitate herself.

    
      
    
    

87, ABAD asked her where the passenger lists came from. AMFAUNA-14
weplied that they hed been left in her apartment by AMFAUNA-1, who |
dutended to instruct her later by SW what to do with them. She said
that AMFAUNA-1 had trained her in this system, and had left her his.
materials, so that he could use her as a stop-gap communications ink

while he was trying to reorganize hia net. crv: Sa
at. +e @.

28, ABAD told her that thie was plainly n ‘ue,
the liste were dated later than AMFAUNA-1's departure date. He said he
they had been brought to AMFAUNA-14's apartment by,AMCUTLER-2,
wne had been observed coming there on 5 October with Loligf*CORREOSO.
(fis was true, according to AMPAUNA-14, AMCUTLER=-2 and lin CORREO8O
had brought the passenger manifests to AMFAUNA-14's house at about 1630
or 1700 hours on & October, and had stayed about fifteen minutes, AT
1400 hours that same day, AMFAUNA-14 had had a meeting with AMFAUNA-30, .
the first in two weeks, initiated by AMFAUNA-39 by means of a telephone
cali to AMFAUNA-1'a mother. who was serving as cutout between then.
SMPAINA-38 had called the meeting to ask whether she had received any
instructions from AMFAUNA-1 as to how to,act in case of an internal
uprising, which a number of people in Cuba seemed to be expecting about

 
   
     
    

m7

    
     
  

    

       
 

 
 
   
     
 

  
 
 

 

 
 
     
 
   
    

mane oagin Sos hs oe

  
 

 

  
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
   
 
     

  
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
    
 
    

  

4 ‘wr AUNA-id j tried to'disposé df the ietter ané had just re- -
. ceived from AMFAUNA-1 by leaving, it on the desk of a fellow employee
together with some potatoes and a carrot for cover, but the men would
‘not let her, She did, however, manage to destroy « & page from her note-

book containing telephone numbers,

5. At the DSE headquarters in Villa Maristas, AMPAUNA-14 was
_ turned over to a militiawoman who had her etrip and perrormed a body
‘< @oarch on her. She was fingerprinted and pnotographed and her biograph
data were taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had
an adjoining private bath. Nothing elge of importance happened for
the rest of the day.

6, During her four-day detention period AMFAUNA~ 14 vas ,trandled

follow officers:  C./).c.Ha BOR. C14: eae
die ese tyr aan en etties da TB CS RHBCANA ConA

“hs yoae ae Francisco” PABAD: AMFAUNA-14 believes that this is hia
al name, He no Foduce himsel?, but she saw the name on her
release papers which he signed. He was born about 1918 and ia about
8°4" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and haz a fat build, aquiline nose,
greenish eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer' s hands,
and two teeth miseing from the lower jaw. He smokes both cigars and
cigarettes, hia manner was soft and kindly, and AMFAUNA-14 believes
-he ig probably poorly educated, He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not
arn whether he has children or what his address is. He wears civilia
/plothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing ~
@ man later in the AMCOG household, AHFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro
1o is a brother_of Justa CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD.
6, ABAD is part Jewish and\an old Communist who worked
half of Fidel TRO during the Batista
S@ariod, Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets
about the course he has taken.

es

     

ing to

  
   
  

(b) "Carlos" aka "gamuel": AMFAUNA-~14 does not know hie true
name, He was born about IS4Z or perhaps a little earlier, He is
about 5°6" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build, —
drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widows -
poak,. He is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and
tilted slightly to one side, An expression which he frequently used
was "0,K." pronounced “OKAH" with the accent on the firat syllable.

He told AMPAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School
of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime,
had been arrested by Col. Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due
to the influence. of his father, and had gotten. out.of the country with
the aid of the Méxican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United
States. He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears

‘ @ivilian clothes, and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes
a .38, AMPAUNA-14 believes him to be a 100% Communist, She thinks he

_ gay have been somewhat better trained than Francisco ABAD and may have
been somewhat superior in rank, although this wae never clearly evident
There seemed to be a little professional jealousy between the two men.
If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember
for the other, the second would show signs of jealousy or resentment.
"Carlos" subsequently told AMPAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for
“Samuel” when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number
about ten times in all. The phone was always anewered by the same
woaan, except for. once when a boy answered and then called for his
mecther to come and take the phone. AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel"
aud the woman would invariably reply that he was not there, AMFAUNA-
14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call
"Dolores." The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade," Discussing
this person later within the AMCOG household, ” AMPA ~14 was told iv
terre hat he,thought "Carlog" Samuel LES. so
£0 £5 vege

> .

ol
Comment; The physical i arips" does not
match that of Bastiel RODILES Plana. lephone’ numbe' 4319 1
listed in the 1962 Havana telephone dirécvory ito one Maria antonia
SCARCANO sfrauso Aartes 47, Casablanca, favas a, WAVE traces on this

—Si-F é/?:: Sadlad . é ec Ss: Pifen pg c-oN tee 7- es n
~- $e av .

A Ae i] CONTINUED

   
   
    

  
  

  

    

 
 

. ce cet ELILE cota i

we

b Te
LS rig

CLABRIFICATION :
SRCRET +

[ia ro mace —
ane ma

aE PAnQuAaT As ocex
Sorce To
ee ———— fog —
SCs

‘

ense? of Station, JMWAVE
“AS QPERATIONAL/TYPIC/AMFAUNA
. J Bie “ 2 ae DMPAUNA=

. &etion Required: For Your Information

1, Following are the results of the debriefing of AMFAUNA-14 in
the JMWAVE area from 42 November to 2 December 1963.

2. AMPAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, & Oct.
@m Honday, 7. October, she went to work as usual. When she arrived, she
found a letter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office
from her accommodation address; it was in AMPAUNA-1'a handwriting and
gontained nothing of any interest, so she was sure there was a secret
writing message on it.

3, At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years
@ld and short, who from his appearance might have been a bus driver,
and the other a very young dark-skinned man, They waikvd into the .
office vestihule and told the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA-14, |
The guard came into the office to give AMFAUNA-14 the message, and the
two men followed right behind. They told AMFAUNA-14 that she had to
come with them to identify an arrested person, AMFAUNA-14 said that
eho would have to ask her supervisor for permission to leave, because
it was not yet closing time. She turned to go back into the office,
and the two men followed her in, The supervisor told her that it
would be all right for her to go, but said that she should check-in by
phone if there were any difficulty, AMFAUNA*14's father and uncle,
both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come
with her. The men said no, because she would be coming right back;
they said they were taking "her to "G2" headquarters in La Vibora.

Distribution:
Orig & 2 ~ Chief, SAS

IN pEk-X

| 9 Dec 1963

: cee VO A 9
i parr

Senet net 19-6-50/3

ce ctssshticatlos bd

 

 
whe aoe wees

     
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
    

o mun wf Vs ua-.g0ye | “. a
, e iS ‘
name inolude HCSA-09806 of 23 April 1963 showing that one Maria CARCANO
Apujo (born 7 December 1935) travelled to Chile in March and April 1963
on @ diplomatic passport, An AMOT report of 47 September 1962 mentions
one Antonia CARCANO Araujo as a communist in charge of vigilance, and
ldving at 47 Artes St., Casablanca. There also appears to be a Maria
ARAUJO (born about 1908) who ig an old-time Communist living at Artes
47, AMVAUNA-1 has been given the names of several former residents of
thie neighborhood in hopes of finding a relative of the CARCANO or
ARAUJO families whose physical description matches that of “Carlos,”
AMPAUWA-1 haw alwo interviewed Col, VENTURA in the WAVE aren, VENTURA
renembera case similar to that of “Carlow” but doea not remomber the
bop’s name. He says that he seems to resuaber that the boy's father
wam connected with one Jose LOPEZ Villaboy (on whom WAVE haw numerous
traces) and that he was assisted in getting to Mexico by @ Mexican

diplomat naned "Benjamin." ayricuna St6i¢.3. yeevyr Bes. #7937
. . nnn Gt SEEN AT a. & HEGINVAR FERS
(0) Fnu lnu:; This man appeared a mes during AMFAUNA-
lé'e dnterrogatién, he never heard his name at thie time, but later
4 oaw him on televisiog interrogating AMSIGH-2 and he was identified
then ag Jose AntonioWFERNANDEZ Wenert. She does. not believe that this
ig his true name, beqduse it ia her understanding that DSE officers use
Qliagea in their public appearances. He is about 5'1]" tall, slender,
with darkigh skin and black hair combed straight back... He has very
large green cold eyes. He was born about 1939 and appears to be un-
educated, with a cynical and vulgar manner, He wears oe BGiataed
. . Way ea A-
7. At about 1600 or 1700 hours on Tuesday, 8 October, AMFAUNA-T3
was brought into ABAD's office for her first interview, ABAD began
by eagking if she knew why she wags there, AMFAUNA-14 replied that she
had mo idea. ABAD observed that that was strange, because he had
4 . 8,
judged ber to bo an able and intelligent womaas 76s 0A VER 967 5
8. Honestly believing that whe might have been denounced by the
jealous wife of her lover, Manue 1 F* COMPANION , nn srs suggested
ELON

' . ACB: 6/4
that 4¢ might gee pergonal matter By reaer CS) #tR 6

  
   
     
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

at

  

Laie Braulio#@VILLAR Negret?. AMPAUNA-14 said that she did not, ABAD
eaid thay th was strange, because VILLAR Negret knew her. He asked
42 she w one Angel *BRINGAS, AMFAUNA~14 eaid that she did. ABAD
Aapete eee cee Ninna RE WRN ety Pilea BE tone SESE NBORE
10, AMPAUNA-14 said that she knew the man as Luie *NEGREJ/and had
not recognised the name VILLAR Negret, S623 | /WEOASY

Litinlen babe ec) RCA) Grel ete VCS A Sane be nie een ote enin heme

. ¢, BL fod “ ei & 7 Ber (UA
11, ABAD told AMFAUNA-14 that NEGRET was then under deventted-mad=
had implicated AMFAUNA-14 in his confession, ABAD wanted to know what
ANVAUHA-14's -connsction with NEGRET had been. AMFAUNA-14 said that

REGRET had been in her house once, and once in her mother's,

18, At this point ‘in the interrogation, ABAD was called away and
AMFAUHA-14 wag returned to her cell. Two hours later the interrogation
was rosuned, . Ea

13, ABAD picked up where he had left off, and asked AMFAUNA-14
what connection she had had with Angel BRINGAS, AMFAUNA-14 gaid that
she had known BRINGAS no better than she had known NEGRET. ABAD said
that she was lying and urged that she cooperate. AMFAUNA-14 promised
that she would cooperate, ABAD said that NEGRET had told the DSE that
AMVAUWA-14 had had sexual relations with BRINGAS, and AMFAUNA-14 denied
the allegation,

34, The interrogation wae again interrupted, and AMFAUNA-14 was
ret to her cel, When she returned to the interrogation room,
ghe saw that ABAD had an envelope containing what she recognized to be
papers taken from her apartment, including airline passenger manifests,

ciphering material, instructions for using the deciphering material,
and insurance policios and personal papers belonging to AMFAUNA-1.
AMWAUNA-14 now realized that it was-time for her to pretend to 7
CLABGIFICAgION page NO.
Be" S8a ee enavious eDivion, SECRET [x] : » 3

7 : CUssRN £6 ne FED. p88 Of
®. epi that it\was not, He-then Sita her if she kne#” ohe<04

 

 
14- 9000 .

 

 

 

 

cooperate | with the DSE, as’ AMFAUNA-1 had briefed her to do in ‘such a
F ‘situation. . .
: 18. - ABAD began by telling her that ane was in a very serious 8.
situation, because he knew that she had had very close connections

with a EUBARK agent. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-1 was identical with
“Julio.” AMPAUNA-14 paid that AMFAUNA-1 had been known as "Julio,"
&B4D then wanted to know whether NEGRET had been working with "Julio."
AMPAURA-14 denied this, ABAD asked whether NEGRET had known "Julio,"
AMPAUHA-14 denied this too, but volunteered the information that "Julio"
bad provided NEGRET with mail facilities, ond that AMFAUNA~14 had been
the cutout between them, Did NSGRET know wf "Julio's" existance, ABAD
wanted to know. AMFAUNA-14 said that herdazd not that she had brought .
HBGRET mail and money which she had gotten from "Julio," and had picked
mail up from him and delivered it to “sulto," but that NEGRET had .
never known "Julio's" identity.

16, The truth about AMFAUNA-14's relations with NEGRET and BRINGAS
according to her statements to her KUBARK case officer in November 1963
in the JMWAVE area, is ag follows:

 

(a) In about mid- 1962, AMCOG-2 naked AMFAUNA-14 to serve as:
gutout’ ‘petween herself and an unidentified agent, and AMFAUNA-14
agreed. AMPFAUNA-14 was driven to the meeting site, which was on the
sidewalk in front of a textile factory near Calle 100 in Marianao, by

4's chauffeur, a Spaniard named "Segundo," Thia agent introduced |
himself to AMPA UNA 14 only as. "Bl *NEGRO", and * AMPAUNA-14 described _
hergelf to him as an employee of an unidentified embassy, For contact .
_ purposes, “Bl Negro" gave her the telephone number 29-4800 or 40-4900,

 

> (b) Later, wi when AMFAUNA-14 began to truat "El Negro" sore,

{ he gave hia the telephone number of her mother, She learned that

(981 Magra'a" true nama waa tate Rranlio VILLAR Negret, and that he

-ldved im a omall room in the rear of the textile factory, The telephon
‘fumber which he had given her was always answered by a woman whose
Geme she learned to be “Waximina."

 

(c) VILLAR Negret was born about 1926, and was about Bri
tell with bread shoulders anda strong build. He had black wavy hair.
‘@ycs, an olive ekin, and a face marked by acne, AMPAUNA~14 —
. wever learned anything about his family directly from him, but D&E

efficers told her that he was married with one child,
perents lived on a farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

   
 
 
    
  

: (4) VILLAR Negret was a member o ec ucionaria .
‘Denosratica, which AMFAUNA-14 understands to be. @ successor organization
to the 4AA of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango, He had formerly belonged to
en action component of this organization, but more recently had de- _{!

, pvoted himself? to intelligence collection, AMFAUNA-14 brought b es

: a Wructions and money from AMCOG-2, and picked up hia intelligence mn

fgeperte which she delivered to AuG0G-2, She underst that ‘AUCOG-2_

? at these reports via diplomatic channela to Fr AEZ inkk 1 ELE

: t 2. 92 livered them to. an individual identified only as<“k
Be ez," The last contact which AMFAUNA-14 had had wfth

Pd be waid concerned
7 ‘4m Colombia,

    
 
     

Once when "f

(e)
cot with AMPAUNA-14, This cousin was Angel##BRINGAS, ag om ley ee of |
nt an iO, -balephoneds |
©, On various other subsequent occasions BAINGAB Filled in
for Negro." AGL INKC- CN FCB. PR CvIDEN Bx aos~BICP,

(f) According to what the DSE officers told her, "El Negro"
was arrested about 1 October and was to be shot. AMFAUNA-14 asked her
BSE interrogators whether it would not be possible to reindoctrinate
“Bl Hegro” instead of shoot him, but they told her that it was not
worth the trouble because "El Negro” was raon of low _ morals who.
vom CLASSIFICATION . PAGE NO.
. [eee Sa vss previous eorrion. 5 ECRET [F] 4
fee . CONTINUED .

 

 
