 

(04-10126-40350]
Py

 
 

if TEL \ U ~e pK
Wa RNA - DE ( ai aie
eomed

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel *
Friday - 17 December 1976

 
  

20, (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Austin Smith, House Appropriations
Committee staff, called and said he wanted to alert us to the fact that he .
would be traveling to West Germany, Austria and Switzerland and would be
leaving Monday evening. He said he has no plans for any contact with

a I thanked Smith for the alert.
Zz

21. (Confidential.- GLC) LIAISON Called Paul Daley, Department
of Justice, and discusséd with him the Director's meeting with
Chairman Thomas Downing (D., Va.) and Representatives Henry Gonzalez
(D., Texas) and Stewart McKinney (R., Conn.), of the House Select .
Committee on Assassinations,and told him that the Director ‘thought it
would bea good idea’ ‘to include Representative Richardson Preyer
(D., N. Car.). Daley thought this was a good idea and we agr eed to keep
each other informed on the happenings. |

Later in the day, a call was made to Daley's office to inform him
that this meeting had been cancelled due to Committee meetings and had
not yet been rescheduled, .

”
~

| 22, (Confidential - GLC) BRIEFING Called Eddie Martin,

| Administrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), and

told him of, pur interest in briefing either the Senator himself or a designee
‘D program, It was agreed that Tom White and
C/CCS, would come by on Tuesday afternoon at 2:30

 

 

“to talk to hint about this subject.

23. (Unclassified ~ GLC) LIAISON In the absence of Gretchen Koitz,
spoke with Kathy Cooper, in the office of Representative Les Aspin (D., Wis.),
and told her on a confidential basis that Robert Montgomery Lanigan was
in fact an employee of the Agency, that the appropriate people in the
Agency were aware of the domestic problems and that as far as the Agency
was concerned this problem should be handled between Lanigan and his
wife or their attorneys. When asked if we could supply Lanigan' s address,

I said If would have to check and would be back in touch on Monday.

24, (Secret - THW) BRIEFING I spoke with Fran Williams, in the’
office of Senator Lawton Chiles (D., Fla.), and scheduled an appointment
for 5 January 1977 at 11:00 a.m. to brief the Senator on the DYSTIPEND
program.

‘ANTERNAL USE CN

 
