74-00000

 

have on substantive issues.

4. In anticipation of the short deadline (and the
agreement says five days, not five working days) we should
pian in advance on an informal working group consisting of
representatives from the affected Organizations (DDO, DDA,
DDS&T, OGC and OLC}). Directorate representatives should
be authorized to designate persons within the Directorate,
both substantively competent and in sufficient numbers to
conduct the necessary reviews. At present the following
components seem to have been involved: :

(a) Directorate of Operations: Plans Coordination Staff
(Messrs. Gregg, Shepanek and Holmes), LA
Division (Messrs. Sturbitts and Hawkins), SE
Division is), CI Staff (Messrs. Blee,
McCoy and Information Management -
Staff saan hst

(b}) Directorate of Administration: Office of

Security (Messrs. Solie an Reardon), Office
of Personnel (Doris Houdesheldt).

{c) Directorate of Science § Technology: Office
of the Deputy Director (Mr. Clark), Office of
Technical Service (Mr. Brandwein and Jean Turoff)._

(da) Office of the General Counsel: Mr. Rininger.
east OF the veneral Counsel

After there has been time to consider the problems that will
be faced, the undersigned will ask for a meeting with repre-
Sentation as appropriate from the above components.

5. Arrangements will be made by OLC with Printing
Services Division for priority reproduction of the HSCA
draft report immediately upon receipt. The number of
copies will be determined by agreement among the above
parties, Distribution of copies will be by hand on a
priority basis. Various components will be organized for
an intensive review for both security and substantive .
issues of the sections affecting them. In essence, each
component will prepare two different responses, one dealing
solely with security considerations and the other dealing
with factual corrections and disagreements with interpreta-
tion and presentation. These papers will be prepared and
forwarded to OLC which will consolidate the responses into
a single response. That paper will be reviewed in a
working session by designated representatives of the
various organizations.

 

 

   
Yroa0t46-t0096)

 

 

  

foe ze3aa0 | i | SCA

17 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Administration ;
Deputy Director for Science §& Technology
General Counsel :

FROM ; : S. D. Breckinridge

SUBJECT Planning for the Final HSCA Report

1. We have asked the HSCA to arrange to give us
sections of its report at different times to facilitate
our review and response. There has been no response to
this request although it has been made both in writing
and orally.

2. The Memorandum of Understanding with the Committee
provides that the Committee will notify the DCI in writing
of its desire to disclose any information designated for
protection by the DCI. Until advised to the contrary
(and we will try to clarify it) our working assumption
is that the submission of the final report to us will
constitute a written notice of the desire to have the material
in that report published. If the Committee does not receive
a response "within five days," objecting to this and stating
the reasons, then the Committee may disclose the information.
There are provisions for subsequent exchanges on the point

. but the key provision is the first five-day period.

3. As a practical matter we will have two separate

‘reviews to conduct--a security review and a substantive

review. We probably should plan to conduct the two reviews
at the same time. Our formal agreement clearly provides

for our right to take a stand in opposition to disclosure
of sensitive material. We have been told that the Committee
will also receive and consider any factual corrections

that we offer and any statements of disagreement that we

 

This document may be downgraded tu AIUO “when detached from attachment
 

6. A common criteria for security review and pro-
posed sanitization will be necessary to insure some
rational standard and some degree of consistency in
applying it. Fairly simple instructions will come the
closest to meeting the requirements of such an operation
and the attached guidelines present a useful point of
departure in considering it. They were developed after
some experience with the problem during the Church
Committee investigations. While longer guidelines exist,

' they are not practical for a pressure operation such as
this will be.

7. Present HSCA planning is to have available for
our review a Summary Report to be considered by the full
Committee in public sessions mid-November. The Staff
Summary of the investigations are planned for mid- to late-
December. We should be ready in early November for the

first round. . ;

Xv

 

S. D. Breckinridge
Attachment ,

cc: Mr. Gregg, C/PCS/LOC
Mr. Shepanek, PCS/LOC
Mr. Holmes, CI Staff
Mr. Sturbitts, C/LA/Staff B
Mr. Hawkins, LA/MGSB :
Mr. Kalaris, C/SE Division:
Mr. Blee, C/CI Staff

Mr. CI Staff
Mr? CI Staff :
Doris Houdésheldt, 0/Personnel

Mr. Brandwein, OTS
Jean Turoff, OTS

Mr. Hal Clark, DDS§&T
Mr. Rininger, OGC
Mr. Donnelly, IMS

Distribution

1 - DDO
~ DDA
- DDS&T
- General Counsel ae ae
- OLC/Subject SER G
- OLC/Chrono ,

 

FS bt bt pet pet

   

ed
