 

|
|
|

 

GUTIERREZ was a suapected Communist and that, his close association vith
Communieta such as Corina RUDRIGUEZ ami Bunfce JDIO strengthened the
suspicion. oo : z

7. Ina rather conplica docunent, (1 1191, 18 September 1950,
vbioh vent to(San Jose and Lima) but not to(San Salvadar,) tha Colombian

 

reports on arma
shipments in Costa Rican territory which are rumored msy ba intended to
reach Colombia. He wag sent to Coata Rica und made a general report
covering the arma shipments, the involvment of the Caribbean Legion, the
infiltration of the Legion by Communists, and the Costa Rican Communists
who were involved. Diesuseing the Coste Rican Communista who had been
obliged to seek sanctuary in Guatezala, Mexico and Venesuela, he listed
Buntos ODIO, Costa Rican poet, Communist agitator, residing in Guatemala.

8. No other information aoncernisy Eunice ODIO is available at
headquarters. Aleo, there is no confirmation df the allegation that
Eunice UD1U had been the mistress of Jacobs ARBENZ. :

He Mares

woud

 

 

 

 
 

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

aR : o.spatcu No, HSSMal2

aa

CLASSIFICA 1 Ot

arecore ave 08 SEA POUCH

 

i]

   

  

i ae niiy ”
OATE —— —
re Ghjof-of Station,(San savaae) :
FROM chief, WH (6-26
SUBJECT GENERAL -
SPECIFIC. 3 oo Dru
& 2-26
zh
1. Referenss is mda to your cabl SLi ay concerning EBuntes @I0,
@ » 1 Ostober 1947 stated that among ous prises given hy the
mt for prose amd poetry, ons wes averded,in the
last week of September to a young Costa Reap Eunies ADIO,

2. During her stay in Guatemala Atty eter resolving the cvard,
Sefiorita OD1U gave two recitations owas given in the CT@
assembly hall, tetveraite. faze coe acuity of lhmanitios of
the Gan Carlgs rm. ep o Guatemalan pow,
Miguel Angey/ ASTURIAS, \ ,

3. Mew WIG style Ne eid) » madden, This is not atrangs, as
she is a very active Commnia' fo iehia ea) being 8 meee ee near ien
Communist Litertatd ‘eel. = Bugek flostos—to which Carina Rodrigues

4. Buntes “we exo\ee isin in 1947 es being about twenty-five years
of oer © white, with blagk ami black evens about five feet five inches

ta era her hate long, which extonde half wey vey to har valet. Her platform
personality is pleasing, ami har voica, whi which de the most attrestive feature,
esoily captivates her audiences, because of ita low soothing tond.

56 Bor fanatdeies fox the cause of Commmien and her work and efforts
vere fully appredated by the so-called Politburo of the Partido Vanguardia

Popular in Costa Rica. ae q) 98 &

6. 3, THn28369, 21. MSveaber 1947, ma nontdoned a letter written

by Joaq [GUTIERREZ Mango, sox: af ho Costa Rican Anbas Wi

sddreassd ‘to Buntce GDI0 in vhiali: ba epeuk highlp of Gs
: Costa Rican: Cammmist. ‘ike soures sod: by

  

 

 

eine of ey - COORDINATING OFFICER

oe a | SECRET s

CLASSIFICATION

 

 

 

 
 
  
  

 
