 

 

 

1
1
.
¢
i

 
74-0000

 

“eo

-

od _ oot UTy INFORMATION
GPYLCIAL OILY

 

 

12 Jinuary 1952

 

 

free

SPD cca: Fire to,

  

 

 

 

Se of Fages, oO ee mete nee ee BB A a ee een ei
wm eRari wale Ez. —t.- JAparured Ua... : none nnn,
e Dictriburton : . oe a
pd Ao ; Seaiip te
Pilest OY
UMNECERIART
FCP = COT

 

 

Bource, Operetiona: Leta, end Comments.

Subjects Reaseigned

Comments For tracce on the individudls named in

 

 

 

 

“e

" Chasetticesion ESSSET/GINTRES © UL2L CFPICIAS CT

_ 0)

"2 0c ied “hep. ?-/ ‘S49

 

 
14-0000 {

 

 

   

 

 

"Oke about 60 sich stateless
_Pofcoees with ontsy vieus for Brasil issued prior to 30 toe WS. ere in
tokg King waiting for transportation to Brazil. Patite feyey.

2. The: nead of tho W.C.C. office in Rio da André WOURATE
Concurrently Dologate of W.c.c.e for ali Latin America and, in th i capacity,
da Mise CANVALUCts ouperiors

3. The head of tha NeceWece ‘in Rio ts Walter pases ToS, who te tha overall

hast ot N.Co¥.Ce activitkes in Rrasil, in wich capacity hs le Father Hartots
Superior. DUSHIYCK's chief assiatant ia Rio le Higs Adelaide da Coate ACEVEDO.
: ° : ; : .

 

Rane Comonts : OA . .
2. RIOD-B45 reported on 2 Ostoder 1st th

 
 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

\

 

  
 
 

The difficulties w#

 

 

AS

 

 

NTT

, hich the tnteruations’ orgenirats
toxplete and reliaico inforgattea on tud imifrants sre cio to 3 large eitent

 

 

 

 

 

te "BO LSGavaT,

Mievertisless, it gay be. moted tha: tharos are varices etateless per ty:
ie respect ive pagszorts tnors a evaitirg océeodations
tha tong Koop Biches, so03 Lincs”
ress, tod OTSA, 2 -
23 enoountar in Seiasaany

Gna t325 also recopatso the’

to tha fect that those imalgrants elucys reside Ly areas far ncordd fra

 

tim locales of tha organizations’ offsceo.

fact that included exon:
Poraons usoefil. te brasil, ach c2 tha followin: types of workers

engineers, electrictins, echoaleta, ete

tha statslesa imigrante is a larga citber of
sochanica,

 

"Thera ara teelve intomiattoral orpanitations who ere responsible for: proparing
Thsy eres

for tha fournay ~ or. botter, the edit - of tesa stateless

the tratgrants
rofugeos froa China aad various Luropean. countrics.

cde AedeDeSe = dnaricaa Joint Dletribution Conalttos, with offices in Rio
ant S30 Paslo.
E.0.1, © Entr’Aiss Ouvriore Internationale (Internatianal Workers!

36
ue LeGaete +

in Sto end Séo Poulos

an} Sao Fosloe

S.A.E. - Sudos Ald to Euwpa.

Two of these organitattoas hondlo tha lergost cucbar of errivals.
is tha W.C.C,. shove offico in Rio is locstad at Prata & Flezsnp, iba,
GP $3

Pe
Mutual Aid)
Wee AS. = Usbrow lonigrant Aid Society, with offices in lio ard Sao
Palo.
Interoational Catholic Migration Gusciesion, with offices

16Se3- © Intorustion:} Soctal Servics, with offices in Bis ant Sia Fasloe
fina no reproscntatiyes in Brazile

I.8.Ce = International tioscus Comaittce.
L.W.F, Lutheran World Fedoratioa, with officas in Alo ext Sio Paulo.

H.C.W.C, - Hatlonal Catholic Welfare Conference, with offices in Rio’
fas no repregontatton tn Evazil.

$s
T.F. ~ Tolstoi Fourntation, with offices in Kio ant Sfo Peuls.

UUeAH.C. ~ United Virentan dsoricon ‘Kkaliog Comalttoss
W.C.C. ~ World Council of Clarchos, itn’ officas in Ris ead Sio Paulo.

Ons

tpt. €02; 129 office in Sido Fevlo tg et Rua D. Yoridlana, 35J.
Pealo office is under ths direction of Liss Rachel ca CARVALLO.
othor arganisation ie the .W.o.U. Cs, whoge office in Ro ia at ironies
Churchill €0; {ta office tn SE Paulo is ia the Church of Paco (ignaja
J3Fitcordos Tho Sco Palo offices 1a untor the direction of

da Pas) on ki
Fatior karte.t3

BSince 25 April V54,- fay statelicas persons tiv hove beer veable to ubtain
a visa for Eraztl, Concta or Australia have been 30 patriated to tho UeS.Sede
As @ rosuit of this ropatris¢ion, it ig yoosibls, though sot probable, that

sors clements may bo sent Miva China to Brasil to eqyzgs in cubeersiva

activities here, whily mumburs of their fanilica, ubo havo becn repatriated

to Russia, aro held ag hostages there.

-2-

 

 

+

 

 

 

ve

 

 

 
 

 

 

we

mee

AaT.t

dee

eres

- ADR

 

catef, WHD

chief,

cannes: Ggarot hana t/OTACALLS
Ieterreyation: of Enacia: Taigrente feroa hea 10

ee

Trameat tied senwel the in tripiicste bus ge

ref?
Calaf nf wsbles.,

 

 

 

 

 

. THRO: Sin Peale

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

= pryyarei

 

 

 

by

oppo raid Maw Lrkerragatl zot of Weunel ea

 

 

soigventa tava Gitik

 

 

 

 

Bbtoaleate pegs see, in triplicate

bigtribetion

Be oadquartere: webt af notes

 

 

q2-

 

 

TS td

 

apete-

a Files, wart,

By ws

 

if

 

 

Fibs L7G |

 
74-00000

a 2

2.

3e

  

J REPS 02 KGPSAS5II-

On 13 Gctober, Karcos ELSTOI, AEZWATIY's colleacce ia ths Braatiién Federal”

giitical Folica, ¢xforsod hia that o3 15 Gctoder ‘ha had evhaitted to tha
.ahalatioa of ths reports ha Nod nocaived fro ATHY

given ty LE IUATHY ‘otafiliecd wersisis of ER=2 to B2e15, -
inclusive, and RAL? to 12-27, dnclusive, elong wits tha biograpaical tntormation
of the earces of thosa. reports. RlelS end RleN wore not Pasoed to BASTUS
bsesuse thay had bedi cbtainod fros ALLOFATHT.)

Ca 27, Ectobar BISNS toforced ALTRNVIGY thas tha translation of tha reports
hed i 223 forward ty tha Cntef of Folics to Colsach LAERiID, the presaat
hast-of tho Fedorsd litical Folica in Eig ca ceneiiv, tho, 14 turn, hai
forsanicd it to aed HW sit, bad of tha Folitical Divisten of th Folitical
Police, for hig recommendations. Bigicd ctatad that be beliesed FIOCOELLY
would recemasal that tha reports be ferwarlol to tha Foreim Offica eni tha
Far Mintotry. UASN alco intents ty. give a copy of the treméelstioss to
Rivetro Go ANUDE, bed of the Sarvicta da Vigdlaccta of the Departaant of
Folities) cul Social Order (D.0.F30)e SSo Pasto, woo bas iniicated an interact
4a recaivizg ite

As en introduction to the translation of tha resorts, LISTOD ésacribed briefly

sik'g Statologs retuge? inaigrativa probles ani tia woluntery oslfare
orgenizations wich esaiat the imalygrants du getaing entry to, ard settling -
an, [rasil. Tho tronalation of this introductica 10 «3 follows: -

Tha currant imstgration of Write Russians date Brasil began in 19Ld. Wt
hoz dininiched since Juna 195, in tha face ef the dectalon texen ty tha
Eatdoral Institutes of Coldnization end Imigretion (Instituto Eaclanal da
Inigragds Colonizajo) (HM. Ce) oa 16 dana WSL. On that cate, the
Directorates of tha NLILE.C. decided to rogest that the Eintstry of Foreign
Rolations take thse roccscary sicps to stop the issuance cf visas for
stateless Peroons for a period of aixty cayae

toa 30 Juns, Viceata ro, thoa Foreign Linistes, cant a circilar to ell the
tcnzulates erdering a stoppage in the dowiancse of vices until a | final
aockalon could by reachode

823 €2 Septesbar, the Foreign Offica iasucd to ths consulates new instrections,
accemiing to thich, consrally epostsing, atateleza imigreats ara percitted
entry to Erasil coly tf they have ia Erasil relatives in tha direct lins of
eescen® shose ecomule siteation is mich that thay can gearuates the

gadstatonce of tha ikalgrants.

       

  

 

°
   

 

 

3. Ga 27 Nos 52, the Pross attests called our attcation to”
State Tapt. Control exdle 137, {rea Poza, cated 14 Nev 52, a copy
of whicls 18 Sttached hereto for your ccatwnicas?. Basing cur res.
‘quest ca the ‘information contaizsd ta para } above, cad oa ths
-seole we susaltted queries concerning Subject

 

attacc
to dotN talon asd UNBOUND.

 

Lod Jen 53, we recoivad ths coutssing reply treat QUBOUND:

 

 

 

 

 

 

cocpatriot kn Borlin.
They tava cng child, 29 kay ly37, of Freash tattion-
ality. . hey

 

isd the Foraisa Logica in rela end was do

of Geiesa origin, ths sca cf ,
ae

gzined French naticaality by rataralteation ca 2 ipril .
a. way Ostetor 1933 ia Fords Uy, ba carried bia.

Coe
eshilicsd fa Fotruary sl. Ia Anguo% 1842, fesring Jost

ho by intarcsd in a catp the cooccepied ton9, be Go”

 

 

eidsd to co with Mio wie

 

 

 

 

9 miairsd to Frogos cad cabcsisd et

 

 

 

xbarg by still sectess ab

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

gs
essslly rolfesis eourca, 2$ is mspertcd te hava bald

 

 

 

  
 

fovies Infercatios Burcca. Ybs cstivity $ legal
effica da, du fect, aluoai negligible.

, Sinca 1$L5, bo aloo bas opsratad aa dffice for tha
estticscat of disputed cliizy for ths ()

5 Pest) Lciustrater of the

“SBORRT
Security Lofercatica

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

”

Segtings wien icf thy Soviss tcmmretal
Uestsa (els «26s UTS LSsd) cad wityf of the

Since 1945, be toa bad a legal cffics
Yeriz loa, tran, ecconiing to o

 
 

1041017110138

 

5 : . ia a
OFFICIAL [DISPATCH © 4

  

a\
van ates, wrseatcn 4s OFM JIS
. wer eve anne SECRET
Security Information =” .
- . t Cha! ICATION a
. an -
ro Chiot, bz care 5 February 3S53- \
: . ; | nr .
~ Prom, Chief of Station, wet

 

 

ae
a ! acd
SuUBIECT asnrear- ’

Referssca: - State Dupt Coatrol Cable 1437, 1s How $2, from Baan

2. Gold Jers $2, the Prosa Atische' cf ths Perls Exbascy urote ua

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ths following csmorenduss
| £ccasJloy to Froese records,
we ig wag trainod 63a lesjor, left Say a
- A931, cad eppcarcd in Prence ia ly33. Ia lysy, bo enlishd
. da ths Forelya Legica. Scas tins ip 19.9, be was cemcdilised
ia Korovc a,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2, Ws esorcbod cur files, foccd no previcas recerd cf Suvjact, od
inforaad ths fress Avtscha sooondingly.

CS feb 2s

 

OFES., °
| Netasbnenton RPC 05-2 yaage/
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a
. . ’ : . . ‘ {
ae ole . .
' : . esvotes ths creator part of hia sctivity, however, | " ‘
. to joarmalica. Ea 42 a cofrespeadint of verzous French ead .
foci er ttt tel tlpeaer manly wei
: ia eceredited officially to the Freac try ¢. Peatione
\ ' fa Esa cbteiced massrous vicsa for foreiga countries inordsr
1 et ; to fulfL2l hie professional obligations, : .
eo : Ko baa nover ettracted ettcniica frcoa the political point :
eo - of vicz, zi i
i
ain eqotact with a con caccd (ole = : ‘

 

eso fara $ vaies), now a corraspoadzas of to :
Faric, end who elco to muopsctcd of being Tdsatical with on re,
Oxegcat of ths!

 

 

 

 

 

ee we cg ce ke ere _sontiming our investigatica of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\ §. Wits regird to neationad ‘ebora by ‘nto, wo
. since have cocsuited with tho Praga Attschs, who hes toca eble to iden-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: tify hia es foflewas bates tee Bat oan
‘ . poeccatly rost ecenenic _ ot
~Sormenocaccal .
a
wf 6. Oak Fed 53, va recoived ths following lesa coxplote reply «+ t

from UUICH:

 

 

 

ve “ts ero cating €11 of tho shove informatioa avallodle to both
ths Exbescy Fross Attschs cad to SHARR. Wa would epprcciate receiving
all poscdble further corcgutory inforeaticn concerning bia
pardons coneeot oy cnd his estivitios. Vs would te intorested to recede,
: OPEae:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ne
ever)

 

gr - Bgadg el D 2035

 
 

 

Me ome ti Rho ae =o
Ey hia

 

   

e,

   

es SN

    

      
      

 

o Be inde
thes are meow, te ta friendly te tae
rut elintary disclosures in ose
Bastoruwts Ver tabcigen Surupe? 3

eedeist Far here te

   

  

 

 

     

 

ine
fasts twerva bon mec madd ter:

Pivities Un France atl imatmany,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
