104-066-282

gee CONFIDENTIAL,

 

« 49 PH "78
11 April 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

SUBJECT: HSCA and 1977 Task Force Report

1. Yesterday Rodger Gabrielson of OLC phoned me about pass- ;
ing Tab F of the 1977 report to the HSCA, for use in questioning i
of Anne Goodpasture, on whose research most of it is based. I
stated categorically that I was opposed to letting that section
out of the building; it is replete with operational detail, in
ich it contains reference to involvement of (@_ former )

Iho cooperated with us prior to his attaining that ~
position. pointed out that it had been deleted from the sani-
tized version in its entirety, while a selected few of the HSCA
Staff had been permitted to see it at the Headquarters building.

   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

2. I told Gabrielson that, nevertheless, the material in
this portion of the 1977 report was DDO material and he would
have to clear it with SA/DDO in any event. He said he would: speak : ,
. with Don Gregg. I asked that he spell out my reservations. about
it. He said he would and that he would call me back.

3. Not having heard from Gabrielson I eventually phoned Gregg.
He had spoken with Gabrielson and had agreed for the section in
question to be delivered to the HSCA on a read-and-return basis.
I repeated to him the reservations I had; he-said Gabrielson had
not mentioned them to him (Gregg has not read the report, so is

unfamiliar with its contents). I told him the story of how the '
IG 1967 report on Castro (unsanitized) was Tent.to the Church :
Committee for 24 hours, and was copied; I predicted this would i

suffer the same fate. 1 repeated the description of the kinds of -
materials in the report, stating that it should not be permitted
out of Agency control; once Blakey disbands his group, and his
discipline and control is lost, we can expect to see it in the
press. Gregg asked if having the paper in CIA hands, with a CIA
observer at the Goospasture questioning, would suffice. I said.
that under the circumstances it would have to do.

yToe Ya CC

S. D. Breckinridge

CONFIDENTIAL, # 06589

 
