 

([tocetotao-t04z0]

‘Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counsel

Delivered to Charles ed» LI if use Appropriations Committee

, | Yfor passage to Representatives John J. a,
Flynt (D., Ga.) and J. Kenneth Robinson (R., Va.) for their

  

Friday - ll Pebruary 1977

“19. “(Unclassified LIK MINISTRATIVE. DELIVERIES |

 

 

 

   

 

 

staff, phone numbers of | d 27, 16-3 Y

 

 

use in an upeoming trip to the above locations. a

20. ‘(Confidential - LK) LIAISON Met . with James Fellenbaum, i
Senate Appropriations Committee staff, to discuss the FY78 budget. . ;

 

_Fellenbaum indicated that the Senate Appropriations Committee
_.would have to treat the issue of intelligence-related costs due to
the fact that the House Appropriations Cornmittee has shown

such interest.in this matter. Iinformed him that the House os
Appropriations Committee is scheduling a hearing on intelligence~_ on

related costs on 8 March 1977.

 

Fellenbaum also said that it appears Senator William W.
Proxmire (D., Wis.) and Senator Clifford P. Case (R., N.J.)}
will join the Intelligence Subcommittee of Senate Appropriations
‘Committee. . .

21, (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Advised Art Kuhl,

Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, of the number of Agency |

to the Senate, The information was supplied by Tom Carney, ccs.

- on the present state of affairs with respect to the House Select Committee

employees covered by the upcoming foreign service list to be submitted

22. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Spoke with Paul Daly, FBI,

 

' on Assassinations, Daly advised that at the reqiésFeeerRPnyyrenty B,
‘Gonzalez (D., Texas) to the Attorney General the Committee staffers will ||.

no longer be provided access to the unclassified material they have been _-

' reviewing within the Department of Justice,

Daly is hopeful that Chairman Gonzalez will : approve ‘the security ;
clearance staridards and once this is in motion the first clearances should
start coming through in about 30 days. I asked Daly to keep us advised as

_to the progress on the clearances matter to pave the way for our next
‘coordinated. step within the Executive Branch to seek Chairman Gonzalez's

 

and Representative Samuel L. Devine's (R., _ Ohio) agreement on procedures
for access to classified information, | : - 18928
