 

104-10445-10106)

ae

~

. ] 4 SCA

4 ve . a +. «+ + “3 4
fournal . Office of Tepislative Counsel Page 3
tb 2

 

“Wednesday ~ 14 June 1978

10, (Unclassified - DFM) IAAISON On referral from Fernie Hart,
O/DDA, I called Tom Casey, in the office of Senator J, Bennett Johnston
(D,, La.) to inform him that Ageacy tears will be using the National
Capitol Parks softball fields near Headquarters building on 23 June aud,
therefore, the fields would not be available for the use of Senator Johnston's

 

team,

li, (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Met with Mike Epstein, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who said he would be meeting with
former Attorney Ceneral John Mitchell on 19 June regarding his knowledge
of KCIA activities. Epstein said Mitchell's attorney, William Hundley, would
also be present and asked what clearances he held.

I also reported that the IG officer who interviewed DDO employee

shad veviewed his notes from the mecting and there was

no reference to, and in addition he had no recollection of, being told
anything about restrictions on reporting on KCIA.

12, (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Met with Earl Lisenhower,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who said the Committee was
still interested in hearing abowt the Shevchenko defection, about double agent
aspects of the Nicholas Shadrin case, about Agency cooperation with
Mrs. Shadrin and her attorney, about the discovery of electronic surveillance
equipme nt in the Moscow embassy, and about the Soviet press story on CIA
employee I also mentioned that we still hoped to arrange
a meeting between Eisenhower and DDO officials on Agency~Committee relations
and Eisenhower suggested the week of 26 June. .

 

 

 

t .
13. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Met with Ed Greissing, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, and told him I believed the matter

of the request of the House-Bolect Commiltes on Assessmeeee review

the Church Committee testimony of Agency employees was taken up with

Bill Miller, Committee Staff Director, yesterday. “Greissing said he would

check with Miller. In addition, Greissing said the Assassinations Committee

has now asked to see Church Committee testimony of Ted Shackley and

Hal Swenson. I said IJ would check into this,

  

 

VIS EE Doe Tag RrSl REE TE fl

 
