74-00000

3lL__

 

possible friction between the Army_people in Miami and CIA, as

well as other possible agencies, General Swing had décidea-to

keep Subject in Tans” ‘custody and make him available to any author-
ized Agency who wished to talk to him.

5. Preparatory to a possible turnover to CIA, I contacted
Jim O'Connell, SSD, for possible support in moving Subject to
Washington. After learning of General Swing's decision to keep
Subject in custody in Miami, I cancelled the support request to
Mr. O'Connell. 5

6. Later in the WH Division, telephoned to
state he had been in contact with General Cabell and that General
Cabell had contacted General Willems, Assistant Chief of Staff,
Intelligence, Army, who authorized General Cabell to state that
he concurred in the turn over of Subject to CIA. Mr [pos
stated that Air Force and State also concurred in this turnover.
further stated that General Cabell was interested in being
certain that Subject was not surfaced.

7. %XI relayed this information to Mr. Nice, Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and he stated that he would inform the
necessary officials. Mr. Nice also stated there was no intention

on the part of I&NS to have any publicity concerning Subject, but

that it might involve a situation with a newspaperman which could
not be controlled and inadvertently publicity might result, even
though it was Inmigration's intention to not publicize the fact
that Subject is being held.
: 9

8. I recontacted Me) ana he stated that General
Cabell would probably be in touch with General Swing, Commissioner.
of Immigration in Miami.

9. On 5 July 1959 Mr. Nice telephoned to state that he had
received a call from Mr. Henessey who is General Swing's Executive .
Assistant and that it was his understanding that General Swing °¢
would be telephoning General Cabell to discuss the situation. Mr.
Nice stated that he also understood that General Cabell had indi-
cated to General Swing that the CIA man, Reichardt, had not been
permitted to see Subject. I advised Mr. Nice that there mst be
some misunderstanding on this point, since I had indicated to Nice
on Friday, 3 July, that Reichardt had seen Subject and that I had
received this information from the persons who were in touch with
General Cabell. Mr. Nice stated that this apparently was some-

thing that the two generals would have to iron out.
 

([tocetotta-toz7e)

Sint

hy

 

6 July 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: LANZ, Pedro Diaz

Le]

1. On 3 July 1959 Mr. WH Division, telephoned
my home, stating that he was unable to contact anyone in the
Alien Affairs Staff and that General Cabell was interested in
having a contact made with Immigration on an expedite basis.

oO

2. Mr. (“7 -statea that Subject, the former head of the
Cuben Air Force, surreptitiously left Cuba and entered Miami on
2 July 1959. He was apprehended there by the Immigration and ~°.
Naturalization Service and is still in I&NS custody. Mr.
stated that the FBI has talked to Subject; and thet the WH rep-
resentative, Bernard Reichardt, has been in contact with the
Head of the Immigration Service in Miami. He has asked that
Subject be turned over to him for possible movement to Washing-
ton. Mr. Reichardt stated that relationships between the Inmi-
gration and Naturalization Service and himself were very good,
‘but that the District Director of I&NS in Miami had stated that
his Headquarters in Washington had ordered him not to release

' Subject.

8)

oF

3. Mr.[ Ftated that General Cabell has been in con-
tact with the State Department, especially Bill Snow, Deputy
Director of Inter-American Affairs, and that Snow has the con-
currence of Secretary Rubottom, who agrees with General Cabell
that Subject should be turned over to CIA for exploitation. Mr.

stated that General Cabell directed that Immigration be
contacted to effect the release of Subject to CIA.

4. I contacted Herb Nice at his home and explained the
situation to him. He stated that he would attempt to contact
the proper officials in I&NS to effect the turnover. Some three
hours later Mr. Nice returned my call, stating that due to the
holiday weekend, he had had difficulty locating I&NS officials
and he has learned that General Swing had issued orders that
Subject's parole be revoked and that Subject would be held in
the custody of I&NS; that the Regional Director from Richmond,

a Mr. Shoneberger, would go to Miami on the case. Mr. Nice
stated it was his understanding that, because there was some

 
74-00000

 

10. I attempted to locate Mr. and General Cabell to
alert them to the possibility of ac rom General Swing. I
could reach neither one.

Ll. On 6 July 1959 I advised wf) WH Division, of
the information relayed to me by Mr. Nice on Sun » 5 July. He

stated that General Cabell had had a call from General Swing and

that the people in the State Department were quite concerned
about the case, as was General Cabell. Mr? stated that

the case would be taken up with the WH Division today, 6 July.

12. I briefed Mr. Pennington, Alien Affairs, and advised
him that I was stepping out of the case.

WM best

W. M. Knott
Chief, Personnel Security Division

WMK: mab

 
