[og 10110-10056

soe . sypomorons ae . ; SORES .
a Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

 

TO : File DATE: 14 January 19650
FROM : Chief, Alien Affairs Staff
SUBJECT: Inmigration and Haturalization Service, Relations with

(Sami, Florida)

1.. At 2:00 p.m. this date, Mr. Richard Haberstroh, Intelligence
Officer, IaiS, telephonically contacted the writer. He stated that
he in turn had received a telephone call from Had Ahrens, the Inmigra-
tion District Director in Miami, which referred to arrangements which
had. been laid on during 1959, whereby Cubans of interest to this
Agency would be smuggled out of Cuba aboard a boat destined for
Tampa, Florida. Mr. Ahrens indicated to Mr. Haberstroh that apparently
the Cubans have become suspicious of the vessel, and the boat owner is
in “hot water" in this regard. According to Mr. Haberstroh, the CIA
representative in Miami was contacted by the boat owner's attorney
with the suggestion that a letter be obtained from the I&NS indicating
that they inspected the vessel on its several arrivals at Tampa and
that it carried no passengers.

2. Mr. Haberstroh stated that his quick reaction is that the
Service cannot comply with such a request. I informed Mr. Haberstroh
thet Mr. Ahrens should be infoxmed that he should. take no action in
reqara. to. this matter and inform the CIA representative in Miami that
his superiors in Washington would be in contact with hin in regard to
this matter.

3. Abo 2:15 p.m. this date, xf owas
WH Division, was telephonically cont n os a)

nob aware of this most recent development, however, he di

  

mention

 

that the boat in question has, in fact, been impounded in Cuba
since Decenver 1959. He went on to point out that we want to do
everything we ca: to help out the owner of the vessel since the
cause of her trouble vas in acceding to our requests to exfiltrate
indivicuals. ,

 

  

readily admitted that the Inmigration Service
€ DEGT Tequested to provide such a letter, and he

 

 

  

 

 
 

v
Bernie Reichardt would have made such wu request. Mr.

Lee et ted that he will telephonically contact Reichardt
aNd wet the complete story. He will keep the writer advised.
5. Details pertaining to the initiel arrangements with the

Immigration Service for the paroling into the United States of
Cubans at Tampa, Florida, are contained in Pile 202: #23.

  
 

NU

E6ttte

 
