74-0000

 

- SEGKEL

--4Bernardo de Torres |- Bill Sturbitts will review the file for
documents which shéw the Agency relationship/with de Torres.!
The HSCA has asked to usejde Torres' PRG, PAjto confront him.
(He has denied any relationship with the Agency ina prior hearing.]
A written statement of the actual ide Torres)relationship may
suffice. (DDO Action) : :

Documents Requested

---Security will resist the provision of actual polygraph charts on
Nosenko - offering instead to provide a technical expert to discuss
the actual data. The Polygraph Report has been made available
to the HSCA. (OLC, OS Action) .

~--Hart Study - The DCI has confirmed his decision that the Hart Study
. is an internal document and will not be available for Committee
review. He recently agreed that John Hart would be available to
talk to the Committee about his report.

---Other studies on Nosenko - CI Staff is reviewing the 800 page DDO
study to remove foreign names prior to providing the study to the
HSCA. American names will remain in the report.

---Mexico City Surveillance. Most photographs have already been
released under FOIA. The Mexico City evidence is a major area
of HSCA investigation, and it is likely that the draft final report
will discuss the surveillance operations. The consensus was to
resist - even to the courts - any attempt to publicize those
operations.

Hearings

~--The group discussed various alternatives for the executive session
hearing involving Nosenko which would provide maximum security.
The consensus ruled out the Hill, a safehouse or STC. It was agreed
that Headquarters Building would afford the best security. Bruce
Johnson was to explore the feasibility of setting up a suitable room
at Headquarters with video taping by OTR and would identify an OTR
representative to meet with me to discuss this in more detail. We
also discussed masking Nosenko's voice and concealing him from the
camera. The resultant video tape would allow selected portions of the
hearing to be cleared by CIA for public use by the Committee during
their hearings in September. (OLC, OTR Action)

So ne

~--Possible witnesses for public hearings in September 1978 were
discussed. At the minimum, a spokesman may be necessary to
state the Agency position on Nosenko's bona fides.

CIA Review of Committee's Final Report

---A Task Force, consisting of attendees, should meet as the need

2
SECRET
roa t01a0-10034]

ree oe SECRET.

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only -
Do Wet Reproduce
OLC 78-1632
4 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) Task Force
Meeting - 4 May 1978, Room 6E60

Attendees ;

Lyle L. Miller, OLC Dick Rininger, OGC
Patrick L. Carpentier, OLC . E. Jones, OS
Rodger S. Gabrielson,.OLC Ray Reardon, OS

Norbert Shepanek, O/SA/DO/O o3 pBruce Johnson, DDA

Don Gregg, SA/DO/O CI Staff
Scott Breckinridge, DD/IG ‘Bill Sturbitts , DDO/LA Division

John Leader, OIG ‘Lavon Strong, PA

1. (S) Mr. Miller opened the meeting by reviewing the past and current

relationship between the Agency and the HSCA and by requesting that the
' attendees focus their discussion upon issues suggested in an agenda
which reflected predictions: of the future course of the HSCA investigation.
Mr. Miller explained that this and follow-on discussions will.allow all
interested offices to develop positions and ensure full coordination. If any
major issues develop, they will be submitted to top management in sufficient
time for resolution rather than facing bast minute ad hoc decisions. A copy
of the agenda is attached.

 

2. (S) Significant points of consensus were:

Providing CIA Documents

---An Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding is being drafted.
In essence, it provides a CIA security beachhead within HSCA
offices with a ClA-controlled safe containing sensitive sources
and methods information used in or resulting from interviews,
hearings, and depositions. (OLC Action)

y

 

---No documents will be sent to the HSCA for use in report drafting.
This position is consistent with the original Memorandum of
Understanding which called for the HSCA to draft their reports
which necessitate CIA documents - at CIA. Instead, sensitive
documents will be loaned to the Committee for use during
interviews, hearings, and depositions. The documents will repose
in the CIA-controlled safe at the HSCA. (OLC, OS Action)

IBPEY

& deh

i
:
:
SS

é WN RULE

ie
CK] RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL BERGA.

¥8
¢g

 

8a un
REYIE

Oh

FA ki

“wl
74-00000

SECRET

arises to coordinate the overall Agency position vis-a-vis the HSCA.
HSCA should be reminded of the need to present their final report
for review as early as possible. (OLC Action)

Final Disposition of Notes, Transcripts, and Other Committee Material

 

---We discussed various alternatives to provide the best control and
protection of all Committee requested materials containing Agency
information when the Committee is terminated. Referral to the
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence appears to be
the best solution, and OLC will consider this in discussions with the
Committee. (OLC Action)

”

RODGER S.AGABRIELSON

Attachment:
As Stated

Distribution: : “|
1- Mr. Gregg, SA/DO/O

1 - Mr. Shepanek, O/SA/DO/O

1- Mr. Breckinridge, DD/IG

l- Mr. Leader, OIG

1 - Mr. Rininger, OGC.

l- Mr. Jones, OS

1 - Mr. Reardon, OS

1

- Mr. Johnson, DDA oo
1 -(Mr' CI Staff
1- Mr. Sturbitts, DDO/LA Division

1- Mr. Strong, DCI/PA,

 

1 - OLC Subject
1 - OLC Chron :
OLC:RSG:jms (9 May 1978)

“dpy
74-00000

 

 

AGENDA

I. Providing CIA Documents

A.

B.

Addendum to Memorandum of Understanding
Security Arrangement

Scope of documents furnished - initially only ©
for hearings. Latest request for four volumes
of Mexico City. Station files to prepare final
report.

C. [Bernardo de Torres - Request Poa] to confront

hin at hearing.

II. Documents Requested

A.
B.
Cc.

Polygraph Charts of Nosenko
Hart Study (DCI says no-will offer Hart)

Photographs Mexico City Surveillance -
possible public release

Tift. Hearings

AL

B.

Executive Session - Soviet defectors - Committee
will honor all security caveats

Public Hearings oe

1. Possible Witnesses:

Len McCoy

Bruce Solie

Anne Goodpasture

Dave Phillips

James Angleton

Richard Helms

Ray Rocca :

Admiral Turner (possible witness re CIA position
on Nosenko bona-fides)

IV. CIA Review of Committee's Final Report
wah Se ew OF Mommittee Ss Final Report

A.
B.
Cc.

Establish CIA Task Force
What should be made public - sanitization procedures

Establish procedures to resolve issues - CIA spokesman

 
