 

 

rg t04d0-40030

UPY

e

«

™ .

«

J

- . ; Sow

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counsel Page 3

Monday - 24 April 1978
HSCHER

7. (Unclassified - MDC) LIAISON Went to the House Select
Committee on Assassinations to review security procedures with Office of.
Security representative and Bob Hayes as well as House
Select Committee on Assassinations staffers, Procedures were reviewed
and confirmed and the Committee was provided with the documents which
they had requested, the same being stored in the manner prescribed by
Rodger Gabrielson. After review of the material, it was discovered
that some of the materials requested by the Committee were missing,

‘I returned to Headquarters, picked up the new materials and delivered

them to the Committee that night, They were grateful.

8. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Spoke with the following
persons regarding financial disclosure legislation: Ms. Sarah Luna and
Mr. William Bergen, Legislative Assistants to Representative Romano
Mazzoli (D., Ky.), and Mr. Gary Fay, Legislative Assistant to
Representative Don Edwards (D., Calif.). (See Memorandum for the
Record. )

9. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Spoke with Susan Geiger,
OMB, regarding the financial disclosure legislation. Ms. Geiger said
that Mr. Cy Lazarus, who was heading the White House "team" on the
legislation, would be talking with the Speaker of the- House shortly. I
told Ms. Geiger we had nothing new and were awaiting word from
Representative Romano Mazzoli (D., Md.) as to whether he would be
able to support compromise language which we had provided his staff

several days ago. She suggested we check with Representative Don Edwards

(D., Calif.) to see if he would propose our language as a compromise in
response to the objections Congressman Mazzoli had already raised
regarding the legislation. Itold Ms. Geiger that Representative Edwards'
Legislative Assistant, Mr. Gary Fay, had been present at the recent
meeting we had with Representative Mazzoli's staff and that we certainly
would consider her suggestion. Later in the day, Ms. Geiger called to
inform us that the financial disclosure legislation had been pulled off the
calendar because of controversy over the proposed amendment.-that would
strike the existing limitation on outside income for Representatives.

1GOlO.

INTERNAL USE ONLY
