  

10410103-10034

   

- os - A - SERRE

 
   

#

20 December 1973

' MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD So oe
Ce I Se RETURNTOCIA -
'. SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt. oe ne _ Background: Use Only.
: ; ; sot coe eee a “Do Not Reproduc oar

    
 

 

 

 

or phoned 1 Paul Burns, Spectal Assistant to , the DDO, and’
said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has. oe .
the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt's activities during the - ~
fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged 3 in surveillance -
activities of Barry Goldwater. sO of

 

2. I said that our files showed Hunt was. in 2 DO ‘Division: (Burns .
was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor —
of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington |

- field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division
Chief of DO Division and now DCO; ight be in a position to
i give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then. I '

suggested that he be queried by cable. Burns said Gaines is staying
on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available. :

 

"3. Ieaid 1 that Rg Golernan was on the Iberian desk when the.
Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt
went to the field in 1965. He could give the background on the assign- _
ment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms' — _-
direction. His_recollection would give leads. I told him that Coleman ©
became CO. ter, after Hunt left Spain, and could provide
information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period.
I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried.
I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in - :
domestic operations (something Senator. Baker is pursuing) and that
his assignment to Spain after the election could be presented as giving
him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be
sure we know the facts,

 

4 1 asked Burns to be sure that we are on information distribution
of cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility for
keeping files. on Watergate. He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for
~ messages to Helms, He would advise: the action officer. - I said we are “.0. ~
available for any help we can Bive.

S. D. Brecknridge ~~ . :

 
