74-0000

‘®
_ e
~

 

 

- 3 op? . : ; a
. . : : this .
authorities would not permit their hospital +o be used for/type of work
, and also that g’ re-conditioning operation of this type mizht take as. :
long as 30-60: Bannerman further pointe? cat thet com if cust an “aes
operation were carried on, Security would have to be cognigant af it, a
would have to be co-ordinated into the oOrgaréeetben and would possibly .
take over.and ran the operation themselyes since this type of wor's: ;
is one 24 which Security handles j-~ ¢%, Aptmany *

| .. Tt was agreed betvend | Bannernan,- and the writer that a
conference would be laid on Monday afternoon when OPC representatives

- an interpreter return from Boston and their tal with
At which time, the angles would be explored and a digs-
pate! w e Lorwarded to our people in Panama directing. them to

find out whether the Army would permit such an operation ard whether — a
_- the Army would allow the Agency to have the use of the necessary rocma,
medical facilities, etd. ag would be required for this type of operation: :
At this time,eit was also to be determined whether the disposal of Kelly oe
Venesuela could in fact be laid on. : ae :

 

oo

Comment: — ne a ie

- . This p max’ Speration was mentioned in general terms to the
writer by Mr pproximately thirty days ago on an in-
* formal basis at no s cant details were given at this tine, _.

''- While the technique tha’ po ase considering for use —
in this cass is not known to the writer, The writer believes the aporeach —
will be made through the standard narco-hypnosis techniqua. Re-canditiening -
' and re-orienting an individual in such a matter, in the opinion of ths :
‘weiter, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal of
.’ time and the & fact that an interpreter is necessary in the case com-" --
. pPlicates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present k .
' knowledge, .we would have no absolute guarantea that the subject in this
ease would maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though --
there is apparen a successful response to the treatment. The writer
did not suggest. an perhaps a total, amnesia could be created
by a series of electro shacks, but merely indicated that amnesia® under
drugx treatments were not certain. nn : ; :

 

 

 

 
 

‘og 10096-10218
v oo.

| Office Memorandum + osrrap scares covernviznt

TO 3
- FROM

SUBJECT:

‘was the head of a small political party based in Greece and ost _
‘working for Bulgarian independance. Kelly was described by

X

, swonte no. od ? ( .

Pile oo, . DATE: 25 January 1952

AYen - - . _ .... RETURNTO CIA - od
Norse " : . .. . . Background Use Only . an
Kelly Casa _ +. Do Not Reproduce

3

aon

 

On Friday, 25 Jamary 1952, the writer was called to the offic
of Mr. Bannerman for tae purpose of a conference with one Mr

E&/OPC, concerning the instant case. - a ny
e's explained in substance the Kelly case as follows:
Kelly, (whose real name is Dimitrov), is a 29-year-old Bulgarian and

 

 

as being young, ambitious, bright (elementary colleges education 7 a

sort of a © corse" types but a typical Balkan politician. . Ac~ i
cording t our people discovered that French Intelligence :
Service “attempting to bribe Kelly and make hima double agent and . i

. and a3 a "protection", he was placed in custody ofthe Greek Police

who threw Kelly into a Greek prison. Kelly was held in the Greek prin

“. Son for six months until the Greek authorities decided that Kelly waa .
. & mulsance and they told our people to take him back. Since our .

- other patients, etc. Kelly is not a psychopathic personality.

military hospital for several months and the hospital authorities now

‘under no circumstances whatseever, could anyone but an authorized M.D.

i
Kelly was looking with favor upon the French offers, Accor BOE Bata! ; =
plot was rigged in which Kelly was told he was going to be Snapeinie : [Ree
i

people were unable to dispose of Kelly in Greece, they flew hin to
Panama where, through arrangement, he was placed in a U.S. Militar;
Hospital as a psychopathic pationt. Kelly now has been in the U.S..

want to get him out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering. ,

: jeoxplained that they can dispose of Kelly by. the. simmle
process of sending him to a friend of his in Caracas, Venezuela, and
as faras they are concerned, that type of disposal is perfectly o.k.
However, becanse of his confinement in a Greek prison and his stay in
a military hospital, Kelly has become vary hostile toward the United
States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, OFC is

 

 

 

 

 

-considering an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see if it would be

possible to re-orlent Kelly favorably toward us. This operation, which

will necessarily involve the use of drugs .is baing- considered by OPG ~

with a possibility that Dr carry out the

operation presumably at the + anamaci. Also in- :

volved in this would be a interpreter who is a consultant

to this Agency since settber pa fopeat Bulgarien.
. . . wr 5 ~ y a . . .

Mr. Bannerman pointed ont to that this type of operation
conld only be carried out with the authorization of Security and that,
BOP

 

 

 

 

administer drugs to any subject of this Agency of any type. Bannerman
pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military

 
