74-0000

. SECRET

a

' that some of this mail was delivered, but like most of _the operations de-

" scribed in this section, it is unknown if the program was effective in

increasing Cuban resistance.

C. INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION/ESPTONAGE.
1. Refugee and Defector Exploitation:

Cuban: refugees were entering the United States at the 1 rate of 1700
“per week during 1961- 62. The Inmigration. and Naturalization Service (TaNs)

_ recorded basic biographic data on ‘all incoming refugees. Cards, containing |

: this data, were provided to the Miami Station to conduct a file check. for

_ counterintel ligence purposes. Tn reviewing the cards, the station identi-

fied refugees who might be used for operational purposes and arranged

interviews which, Frequently, also provided positive intelligence infor-
‘mation. . a me

. CIA's Domestic Contact Division (pen) had primary responsibility:
for obtaining positive intelligence information from refugees. pcb inter-

viewed refugees of positive. intelligence interest at the Caribbean: ‘Admis~

, sions Center (CAC) ‘in Opa-Locka. These interviews were documented ‘in

Preliminary Information Reports (PIRs) which were provided to the Intel-

ligence Community and to the Miami Station for review to obtain opera- .

tional leads.

Prior to the Cuban Missile. crisis in October 1962, the Flow of
~9-
SECRET

 
or

XX. SECRET _™

refugees .was large, and it was relatively easy to obtain information on

current events in Cuba and Cuban exiles that could be utiltzed opera-

tionally. Following the crisis, the flow of refugees decreased signifi

cantly. As a result,. the ‘Station established a section to exploit
refugees more intensively. to central ize files on refugees, and to pre~

pare studies on extle groups ‘operating in the U.S.”

~. 2. Anonymous Organization Group:

- During 1960-63, this Group ‘consisted of between ‘50 to 100. ‘Cuban

exiles who constituted a structured intel Tigence support group for the

: Station. It performed a vartety of functions for the Station, and it -
was. the Station's prime source of information on. Cuban exile activities.
. it is considered the single most valuable operational activity under-

taken by ‘the Station. In summary, this Group:

a. Infiltrated exile groups: and reported on their
activities.

‘db. “Maintained extensive files on Cuban exiles, exile
groups and Cuban Government personalities.

c. . Monitored Cuban radio broadcasts and summarized
content. ) .

d. Produced intelligence. reports and special studies.

e. Debriefed refugees.

f. Recruited infiltration agents.

--=10-
SECRET

 
\ SECRET | fy

as an accurate and objective reporter of events. It prepared four news
bulletins a week which were distributed to 1200 Latin American news —
outlets: and prepared radio tapes based on the bulletins which were dis-.

.F

"tributed to hemisphere radio stations.
4. Radio Americas (Radio Swan):
“An Agency-financed radio station; the transmitter was located on
Swan Island with broadcast studios in New York initially and Jater. Miami.
. Started broadcasting in mid-1960. with entertainment programs ‘purchased -
from Pan: American Broadcasting Interspersed with news programs and ‘propa-
‘ganda. CIA sponsorship waS an open secret. Its jmage and credibility
“was smudged considerably as a result.of its use in the Bay of Pigs opera-
tion. Most audience. response was received from Caribbean countries out-
side of Cuba.
5. Mailing Operation: os
: Most propaganda mailing operations were directed to Latin American
countries outside of Cuba. This project, initiated in 1963, was designed
as a mass mailing operation into Cuba to encourage subtle sabotage, re-
sistance and harassment. Utilizing names and addresses from Cuban tele-
_phone books, letters with Fictitious return addresses were mailed to
Cuba from various Latin American. countries and by insertion into inter- .

national mail transiting the U.S. From refugee debriefings, it ts known

-8-
SECRET

 
74-0000

SECRET.

. weekly basis the UR published a list of free world ships visiting Cuba.

‘This was consistently picked up by the Assaciated Press and Agence

France Presse. Throughout its history, the UR was wracked with internal
bickerings and power grabs which detracted from its impact.
2 Agency Supported Individuals:
Aside from utilizing various exile organizations: for. propaganda

purposes, CIA also supported several prominent extles who prepared propa-

~~ ganda materials. Zig Zag Libre was a successfu] satire magazine in Cuba

prior to the Castro regime. The Agency supported its former editor. who ° ss

L. published an edition for mailing into Cuba. In the 1963 period it was

considered an effective weapon for ridiculing Castro. CIA also supported
a former prominent student leader, and one of the former directors of
Prensa Libre, a leading Havana newspaper. These individuals produced a
daily radio programs -for Radio Swan and prepared propaganda materials.
for publication. These individual efforts tended to be more effective .
and to receive better audience response from Cuba than the organizational ,
broadcasts described above. :
3. Agencia de Informaciones Periodesticas (AIP); -

AIP was a news information service financed by CIA. Agency

sponsorship was. an open secret. It was designed to fill the gap in

coverage by the regular news media. It was accepted in the hemisphere

-~-7-
SECRET

 
74-0000

SECRET

d. Directorio Revalucionario Estudiantil (DRE):

Led by several former Cuban student leaders. CIA support to
the DRE started prior to the Bay of Pigs. The DRE was primarily a para-
military organization and prior to April 1961, 21 DRE "members were “trained
and infiltrated into Cuba to create resistance and guerrilla units. This

DRE apparatus was destroyed tn the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs. Subse-~

- quent paramilitary operations also ended in failure and CIA.withdrew its
_ paramilitary support in December 1961. In January 1962, the DRE turned
_ to hemispheric propaganda operations. DRE sponsored students were placed

in Latin American universities where they carried on anti-Castro activi-

ties. This so-called student project also engaged in such activities as
drumming up support for the U.S. position at the 1962 Punto del Este Con-
ference and carrying out successful operations at the Helsinki Youth
Festival in May 1962. Starting in 1962, the DRE began broadcasts over
#NY shortwave radio station WRUL six days a week and Miami radio station
WMIE once a week. The DRE also published an. international. bulletin which
was mailed to contacts throughout the hemisphere and a pony edition of
4,800 copies was mailed into Cuba. .

e. Frente Obero Revolucionario Democratico Cubano (FORDC):

Established by CIA in October 1960 as a rallying point for

middle and upper echelon trade unionists in exile. Led by former Cuban

-~5-
“SECRET
SECRET

; labor ‘Teaders, FORDC published a weekly circular letter which was mailed
‘to Tabor organtzations throughout Latin America, Prior to 1961, FORDC .
" sponsored a daily program over Radio Americas (Radio Swan). Starting in
December 1961, FORDC broadcast a daily program over ‘station WMIE. In
addition to published and radio propaganda, groups of FORDC leaders ¥ were.
sent on trips throughout Latin America to maintain contact with hemi-.
sphere labor leaders and to sampie attitudes toward Castro. . ~FORDC also :
maintained contact with international labor organizations. )
Unidad Revolucionaria (UR): . , wo
» seaety established ‘in Cuba in December 1960 as a clan-

. destine resistance movement. Its leadership was largely put to death or

imprisoned as a result of the Bay of Pigs. The organization was re-
- established in Miami in August 1962 with CIA support. A paramilitary
arm was established in April 1963, but no effective paramilitary action
was ever carried out. Starting in March 1963, UR sponsored a daily
radio program over WMIE targetted at Cuban farmers and another daily
program exposing Cuban internal security service activities. In duly
1963, UR initiated a shortwave broadcast from station WRUL, New York.
The. UR utilized nonobjective, lurid propaganda themes. -The UR was also
a prolific producer of propaganda pamphlets. During 1963-64, 1,442,500.

items were mailed to Cuba and other Latin American countries. On a

-6-
SECRET
SECRET

Swan is another example of an operation which continued after the Bay of
Pigs. It was established in the Spring of 1960 as a component of the
anti-Castro propaganda campaign. It continued in this role until its
termination in 1968. i )

3. Following the Bay of Pigs and in respanse to administration
urgings to do something about Castro, CIA established a jarge Station

in Miami in September 1961 to continue operations against Cuba. The

- operations described below were developed and run by the Miami Station;

many of them were still] in the developmental stage at the time of
President Kennedy's assassination.
4. The Station initiated three major classes of activities:

intelligence collection/espionage, covert action/propaganda, and

: infiltration/exfiltration actions. It should be noted that there was

no clear delineation between these activities, e.g., an exile organi-
zation primarily engaged in propaganda on the Agency's behalf might
also provide positive intelligence information. from interrogation of
an exile or provide candidates for an infiltration team to perform

sabotage. It should also be noted that infiltration/exfiltration ac-

tions were undertaken for a variety of purposes such as espionage,

sabotage and to assist defectors. Aside from intelligence collection,

all of the remaining activities would constitute forms of covert action.

~2-
SECRET
 

[tostot03-t0068]

SECRET

CIA OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA PRIOR TO THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.'° KENNEDY ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963

A, “INTRODUCTION

1. Agency planning and operations directed at Cuba during the latter
part of 1959, 1960 and early 1961 were almost totally devoted to the .
development of the paramilitary operation which culminated in the Bay of
Pigs invasion on 17 April 1961. During this period, major efforts were
devoted to training a paramilitary force, formation of a Cuban exile
organization in Miami to direct opposition activities and to provide
future Cuban leadership and a propaganda campaign designed ‘to rally op-
position to Castro in Cuba and elsewhere in Latin America. _

2. Some of the actions initiated during 1960-61 continued following
the defeat of the Agency supported Cuban brigade. For ‘example, prior to
the break in diplomatic relations between Cuba and the U.S. on 3 January
1961, CIA maintained.a Station in Havana. This Station recruited and
trained intelligence agents and procured and cached communications
equipment to form a staybehind net to provide intelligence on Cuba
following the break in diplomatic relations. Fol lowing the Bay of Pigs
defeat, this net continued to function providing information on Cuba

via radio communication and Latin American diplomatic pouches. Radio

°  E2, IMPDET
SECRET CL BY 055636 ~
74-0000

SECRET.

B. COVERT ACTION/PROPAGANDA
1, Agency Supported Cuban Exile Organizations:

CIA provided monetary support and guidance td a number of Cuban
exile organizations in the Miam? area who disseminated anti-Castro propa-
ganda. Some of these organizations came into existence through Cuban -
exile initiative, but they became largely dependent on CIA to" carry on
their activities. ,

a. Directorio Magisterial Revolucionario (DMR):

_ An exile teachers organization in which CIA became interested
in early 1961. DMR produced a bulletin (Nagisterio. Cubano Libre) which
was mailed to 18 Latin American countries, to BHR members and to Press ‘and |
radio organizations fn the U.S. Radio programs directed at Cuba were pre-
pared and broadcast over station WMIE in Miami. Copies of these programs _
were sent to various Latin American countries and were broadcast over 88
different stations. The DMR also produced seven TV programs which were
broadcast over Channel 2 in Miami. The theme of DMR propaganda was the
destruction of the Cuban educational system by Castro. The head of DMR
attended the National Education Association meeting in 1962, gave: a talk ;
at the meeting and was instrumental in having a resolution. approved con-
demning the Castro regime. By the end-of 1962, the DMR was mailing out.
350,000 booklets and ‘pamphlets a year to various Latin countries and

France.

-3-
SECRET
74-0000

SECRET

b. Union Deportiva de Cuba Libre (UDCL):

A sports oriented organization established by CIA in October
1962. Led by a well known Cuban sports figure and a’ prominent Cubari
sports writer. Purpose of uocL. was to expose Cuban abuse of international
sporting events for political propaganda purposes. UDCL. leaders attended
the IX Central American and Caribbean Games at Kingston, Jamaica in August

1962, disseminated anti-Castro propaganda and were in part responsible for

. the defection of ten Cuban athletes. A similar operation was launched at:

the II Tbero-American Games at Madrid in. October 1962 with less success.
Propaganda was distributed and two defections were induced. Pamphlets
were also distributed at the IV Panamerican Games at Sao Paulo, Brazil in
January 1963. No defections were induced. In 1963, the UDCL is. credited
with obtaining a temporary suspension of Cuba from Olympic competition

and changing the site of the XVI Amateur Baseball World ‘Championship from

- Cuba to another country.

-c. Comite DeOrganizaceones Juveniles Cubanas in el Exilio (COJCE):

A youth organization headed by a former Cuban Boy Scout leader.
CIA began support to this organization in December 1962. Starting in July
1963, COJCE published a monthly bulletin with a distribution of several .
thousand copies to Latin American and European youth contacts. Purpose of
bulletin was to furnish information on the effect of Castro-Communist

policies on Cuban youth.

-~4-
SECRET
