14-00000

 

2 CONFIDENTIAL eo

Ox.
with labor and the Mafia. aa was to develop (Itkin]
as an FBI sour nd turn him over to them. CIA kan
not turn over [Brdd to the FBI because he was a long
time agent (recruited in Italy in 1944 by Jim Angleton)
who had operational involvementsyfor us in Haiti and
other places. In March 1963 (Bro turned [Itkin'Bver todos
the FBI but unfortunately kept a String on him. tkin]
was a handjing problem and from time to fime would re-
turn tof[Brodjfor advice and so forth?! Rocca (CI) had
prepared a full book on the [Itkin/Brod case but they
only are mentioned in pseudo. This book was brought to
the attention of the IG after a 9 June 1975 Time article
named certain Mafioso in connection with the CTA. Scott
Breckinridgegisaid that he had not seen the black book or
known of thefbrodMafia link prior to June 1975 even

. though there had been several Agency inquiries about

questionable activities and one specifically for all Agency
links with organized crime.

4. I request your advice as to whether this is a
questionable activity and whether we should alert the
DCI, the White House, and the SSC.

 

CONFIDENTIAL
[ing 10096-10112] |

slot

~

     

@ CONFIDENTIAL ae Staff: 75/666

 

1 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General
SUBJECT : Possible Questionable Activity

1. Summary: In 1963 a CIA agent was used.in
support of an FBI investigation of Jimmy Hoffa. -
Paragraph 4 requests your advice. =

2. Background: On 27 June Jim Angleton tel-
ephoned Walt Elder. Dave Aaron of the SSC staff had
uncovered a staff agent in New York who had been an
Agency Mafia penetration which Angleton said was made
on the authorization of Attorney General Robert F.
Kennedy in 1963. The agent had tried to contact his
case officer but was unsuccessful and so had instead
contacted Angleton. Angleton had advised John Greaney,
Office of General Counsel. Neither of them had thought
to notify Chief, CI or Review Staff (Greaney later in-
dicated that he thought the agent had retired). Elder
then called Bill Miller to alert him to the sensitivity
of the issue, and especially to the possibility of Mafia
retribution against the agent. Miller noted this and
said that Pat Shea would be doing the questioning. Pat
Shea then called Elder and pointed out that he had talked
to the agent and had not learned about his current em-
ployment with CIA until the end of their conversation.
Shea placed his contact in the “"non-abuse" category. Shea
said he was. summarizing his talk in an Eyes Only memo for
Bill Miller. Shea planned to talk further with the agent.

oO .

3. I discussed the matter with gore “Greaney. In
summary, he told me that the agent, [Mario Brod,{ in Feb-67-
ruary 1963 had come into contact with[Herbert Itkin, ] who
had information about, links between.the Chicago Teafister
Union and the Mafia.CY¥Brod feported this to his case
officer, and in a few days the DDP (Helms) discussed the
Matter with Robert F. Kennedy because of Kennedy's re-
quirements for information on Hoffa and with Sam Papich
of the FBI. The FBI was enamored of)Itkin's|contacts

oy

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
CONFIDENT LADo Not Reproduce

  
