 

a

 

FoF tasaaceuios 9 Reon te aaneiuticl ene een

 

: £0, be" sent. as DCOS tof) :

 

, £9 December 1973
MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E, Howard Hunt
1 of spoke with Fig Coleman about Hunt's “assignment to Spain.

Thad ‘apoken with him back in August when we were inquiring dato,
reported activities involving Mrs. Hunt... Pe ak

. Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964
(by. watch he fixed the time), and took over the Iberian desk, Bill.
Ryan was C/EUR {or was it WE Division at the.time).’ In early autumn

“Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamesaines)

| fs DCOS, as a directed assi a
. ment by Helms. A mémo was prepared and sent to the COS,

 

that Hunt was to bé assigned t

 

(now retired), There was nothing further for about a month when Ryan.
called Colemar in and showed him a RYBAT letter from[_ |stating
that Ambassador Stanley J. ‘Woodward would net have Hunt. in the

; Embassy.

3 - Woodward had‘been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt ©

“wis COS Moiitev ideo. He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting

the days uritil Hunt left.. The President of Uruguay visited President

.. Eisenhower in the States, at which time he requested 4 personal ‘favor--
- that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. - So Hunt took another, tour.

Woodward was outraged, and had his revenge in a 1964 when Hunt was

 

4, Aftera couple of months--early 1965--Ryan. galled Coleman
in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat,
told kim that. Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover... This-
didn't Fequire anything special, Ryan saying that he’ didn't know.

‘much about it. It carie to him from Kararhessines on Helms! order.
“Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, -but he would do

nothing’ for thé station, Hunt was te submit adrninistrative vouchers

for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman ~

said he never saw Hunt before he went out. He knows that there was
no operational reporting, to indicate that Hunt was doing anything.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

 
 

  

om
barr.
. ‘ \
3
~ The vouchers were ‘not large, although the documentation *

was poor, : :
Coleman raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and a

Fe : i
Ryan said he could talk to Karamessinea if he wished. Because . 4
Coleman had a close personal association With Karamessines he :
did Just that, He was told ‘by Karamessines that he didn't know much

about it cither-~"Helms said send him out.’ He was instructed to go
ahead. ~ . : :

    
   
 
   
   
   
  
     

 

5. In early. July 1966 (4 July) Coleman went to Madrid. He” ~~

fad a-ten day turnover with Hunt had already gone and-

he did not: see him, said he didn't know what Hunt did, but

hy Coleman need not worry because. he was gone, .

o. 6. Several months ago[____}was ata seminar at which . oa

“Ambassador Woodward was also present, -At the time he asked on
about Hunt. Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press. ; i

- Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to : :
Spain. Coleman observed that Szule did have along article on Hunt

in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned, |

but without any conclusions as to its significance.

 

 

   

 

. 7; Coleman said the RYBAT file of

C/EUR may have something on
the event, but not much. A letter out and

the reply, “but not much more,
, io wee ae A

: s. Dd. ‘Breckinridge .

 

   

 

  
 

 

NSERC EON RYO tes CIAO INS EET Si ae a aes

 

aL a a SECRET ia

SUBJECT: Howard. Hunt

‘6. The Office of Finance has-not found. operational

“expenditures except for the $1,600 mentioned above.
~ Therefore, it is suggested that Mr. Karamessines be questioned

as to a project or projects to which.Mr. Hunt's operational
expenditures if incurred would have been charged.

 

 

7.- Another possible courge_of action is ti request the :
Director to approve my asking. Pat Chase
‘Manhattan Bank to provide a ‘tranSt¥ip or a entries: into |

Mee Hunt! s Chase Manhattan Bank account.

8. ‘We are currently: reviewing “Fecords of all cashier* s

“checks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if any

weré. payable to Mr. Hunt, Hopefully this effort will be

finjshed by the end of ‘the week.

Ae ie

Director of F nance

Ea ; - Le?

 

 

 

 

t

 

 

}
i
}
:

 
74-00000

 

> SECRET

Mt SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

determined that $33,500 was advanced to hin .
_ for travel and transportation of household
’ goods. to and from Madrid with one trip to
Paris for he. and his family to renew their :
- Spanish visas. All of this advance was fully 4
7 - TO accounted for. However, in his accounting, ae
ost one item appeared tinusual. It was an- a po :
expenditure of $1,600 for a sensitive 4
operation which was approved for write-off by Mr. am
‘Desmond Fitzgerald on} June 1966 without co
. further accounting... ~_ ; }

Bee Also; we confirmed that no other Agency advance ‘accourts
were established for Mr. Hunt during this period. = .

: ~ 4, At the beginning of his non-official cover tour, it
a, was necessary to establish a bank account in his name. The
: EUR Division accordingly requested we open an account at the

Chase Manhattan Bank in Mr. Hunt's name to receive alk non-
(Mr. Hunt had-an ‘account at Riggs National

- salary payments. E
po _ Bank to receive his salary and.allowance payments). The:
3 a, following deposits were made to the account during 1965 and

  

 
 

1966:
Account opened: 13 July 1965.

“13 July 1965 $10,000.
-§,000. |

 
  
  

“22 July 1968

 

= $,000-

" $,000°-
52000”
$30,000

iS September 1965.
6 October 1965".

 

 

. 19 July 1966

  

All of the above have been accounted. for ‘by submission
of travel and transportation accounting: : .

   

_. Ss. We feel at this time without specific guidelines that
further searching would be somewhat fruitless, One strange -  ~ Go
4 aspect of the non-official cover assignment in. Madrid .is that
all the costs were charged to the support allotment. of ‘the
EUR Division which is not normal as non-official: cover people
f ‘are usually assigned to a project. It is unusual to have a
. case officer abroad for one year on an operational assignment

without him incurring operational expenditures,

 

    
 

Dog ee ON

 

. vO \ bam G ms os
'O uncassinigo = Cp a (Config .ttat (A secaet

      
 

   

Dir
COMMENTS [Nembue och comment tes! boa whom
fo whem. Orew @ line occ column afte! each comment).

 

 

 

were se aE

tem PRM erent 9” eoenee 7 enermrerveas my PHTERRaL 71 re seeeeren
74-0000

 
 

 

 

a
i
4
d

‘ its: records to determine iff we could -
. Mr. Runt°in an amount of approximately $30,000 that required: -
ho accounting. : ; Bo,

eee team BO NR 9 EET ESE Myvi cig utiiess;

PORE Lektehe ne eer son

  

F
i

oe SECRET

27 FES 1974

MENORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

_ SUBJECT | : Howard Hunt

ol At *the recent request of the Deputy Director for .
agement and Services, the Office of. Finance -has searched -

Man
find any payment to

 

2. We have searched the following records:

The expense runs for the period July 1964 to
Le June 1973 for the immediate Office of the DCI,
oa the immediate Office of the DD/P, FI Staff,

oo CI Staff, CA Staff and the Office 6f Security.
: We have checked various’ items that were Te- |.
flected in these expense. records but have.
identified nothing relating to. Mr. Hunt.

b. The Station, JMWAVE and FR/Washington
Office accountings to determine if there: were
. funds. passed by the Stations to Nr. Hunt during
‘the year he servéd under non-official cover in

oa.

either in his true
pseudonyms, Oo 7
“Mr, Hunt's travel claims. for the period -
. 1960-1972 and have found nothing in thesé
. travel claims that were not consistent with-
Normal travel expenses, i.e., transportation,
pet dien. - . ron fa 4

name or his two identified

“.d. We made’a specific analysis of Mr. Hunt's.
eriod he was. under

‘advance account for the

 

: Mon-official cover (July '65-Sept.'66) and have _

£2 IMPDET
CL BY: 006567

 

 

Madrid. We could find no payment ‘to.Nr, Hunt? - ~~

 

 

 
74-09000

 

 

- Chief of DO Division and now DCOS

- [gave ds a possible pre

20 December 1973

[MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

. ‘hot phoned: Paul Burns, Special Assistant to the DDO, and -
said that we had some leads that could be followed by. ‘whoever has
‘the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt's, activities during the ©.

'. fall of 1964, when. he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance
activities of Barry Goldwater.. Lot . :

. 2. 1 said that our files showed Hunt was in DO) Division (Burna
was-not familiar‘ with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor
of FR Division) and in August 1944 was assigned to the Washington
field office. 1 suggested that Stan Gaines, who: was Deputy Division’
might be in a position to
give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed tobe doing then.” L-

 

 

 

 

: suggested that he be queried by cable. Burns-said Gaines is staying

on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available.

3, 21 said that Fig Colernan was on the Iberian desk when the

, ‘Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt

“Went to the field in'1965.~ He could give the ‘background on the assign-
‘ment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms!
direction. - Hig_recollection would give leads. i told him that Coleman.
became cos ttn after Hunt left‘Spain, and could provide

: information’on what Hunt did not do for: the Agency during that périod,
i suggested that both Helis arid Kai amessines ‘should: be queried, |

ss treatment that Hunt was engaged-in
domestic operations (something Senator Baker igs pursuing) and that ™
his assignment to Spain after the clection could be presented as giving
him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter tobe >
‘gure we know the facts, . :

 

. 4. Lasked Burns to bé sure’t
of cables to the field on this, given our assigned ‘responsibility for
“Keeping files.on Watergate. He said we are on the PLMHPLANIE for
messages to Helms, He would advise the action officer, I said we are

availablé for any help we can give.

QED, Ba

S. D, Breckn ridge

 

 
 

 

;
it
§
if
i
;
5

at.we aré on information distribution

 

 

 

 
 

104-10173-10130

 

greeters

 

S

 

". fall of 1964, when-he was alt
activities of Barry Goldwater:

 

 

‘ment, which seems to have “be

, became -CO. later, after: Hunt left ‘Spain,
‘nformation on w at Hunt did not do, forthe Age

 

" ‘keeping files on Watergate,
- messages to Helms.

 

20 December 1973

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD |:

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

 

_ 1, Vphoned Paul. Burns; Speciat Assistant to the DDO, and.
said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has’

the action in the DDO in ‘tracking ‘down Hunt's activities during: the |
tothave been engaged in surveillance :

  

\

2 © anid that. our files showed ‘Hunt was in DO Division (Bursis :
was. not farnillar with that title, but recognized it as the prédeceasor

ot FR Division) and ia August 1964 was assigned to the Washington

field office, I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division |
Chief of DO Division and now Deos[_ J might be ina position to *
give a few groups on what Hunt was. Supposed to be doing then. I”
suggested that he be queried by cable, B said Gaines is staying —
on under contract fora while, so would continue to be available,

     

 

3.7 said that Fig Leman. was on the Iberian dgsk when. the

‘Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought. up ‘in 1964 and whon Hunt .

He could give the’ backgrou id on the assign-
through Kararhéssines at Helms!

1d give ‘leads, Tteld him that Coleman .
could: ‘provide |
uring that period.”

I suggested that ‘both Helms and Karamessives should be queried.
Igave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged: in

 

went to the field in 1965;

 
  

direction, His) recollection’ x

 
   

‘domestic operations (sofnething Senator Baker is pursuing) and that ,

resented as giving’ ~

  

assignment to Spain after ihe election could b

 

 

him, time to cool off. I thought we. had to pursue the fnattér to be

sure we know the facts. :

‘4, Lasked Buchs to be sure that we are on information distribution

jof cables to the ficid on this, given our assigned responsibility for
‘He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for.

He would advise the action officer, [ said we are

available for any help we can give.

  

a

§. D. Brecknridge

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SialNGea Atria Rese tesaihee tt wrhshogwvn

  

B
4
7s
f
i
i
t
q
:
e
t
&
B.
i
p.
i
+
:
i

 

“be

 

PE SOSA aN RIN OM RAY LOAD Ce ETE “tr a

  

 

-e SECRET “

9 May 1976

"MEMORANDUM FOR: _ OPS/RMO

SUBJECT ot watergate File Research - Final Report:

T - The Files ‘of the. ‘timediate office of the chief, OPS/0SG
° have’ ‘been checked for-matérial relevant to thé subject. of this :
> memorandum: ° The check. included chronological ‘files
’ cations ‘of which I was the author while assigned to

 

ws in the period July 1970 to duly: 1973. Nothing pertinent was found, —

2 4 have attenpted to recollect any other details which
conceivably could ent and which relate to the period
of my assignment The only points which I Fecall but
on which I have no documentation are these: o

 

a. There. were occasional joshing. ‘inquiries made: of me
by American. residents about the reported presence
in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972.. My standard reply was.

- that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record,.
at no tine did Hunt contact me, and I have never known of his
having tried to contact any Station persannel in during
the period 3970- 73. Ik made no effort personally to ascertain.-
whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and [ I had ro effort made by

any Station ‘member.-

 

 

 

eal ob. “A Station “officer, possibly: ] now
assigned ‘tof was given some. information by an ~~.
_ informant: in “€oncerning reported activities in Spain
by Robert Vesco. suggested - that the information be given
informally ‘to -the Embassy’ $. Etonoinic Section. chief, John. = -
_ Oliver. - That’ officer was ‘charged with keeping: ‘abreast of
developments related to Vesco. “The Station did. not pursue -
‘that subject, as I recall; because it was not a topic of
reportable. interest, according to. ‘requirements. of the perfod::

 

£2 UMPCET
CL BY 058759

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

ERIN er reer eecaeea

astro \Tubeme 8 tase ean

  

AW RASH Reg

 

Sap ene teen enema mnie etee eine La aye

 

 

 

-2-

SUBJECT: Watproste Fila Qosearch - Final Report (cont'd) -

 

. 3 There: is no other ‘employee assigned to my immediate
office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and -

Personalities. -

Robert £. Owen -
Chief, OPS/0SG-—

 

 

 

Lod 5
' :
ia
to

 

Co secret

 

 

 

 

 
