4

 

. 27 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Management Staff (U)

FROM: Frederick C. Randall (C)
Chief, IMS Privacy and Information
Action Group

1. (U) On 24 March 1978, I was interrogated

for one and one-half hours by Mr. Harold Leap and

Mr. Dan Hardway, staff members of the House Select

Committee. on Assassinations. I answered all questions

truthfully. Immediately prior to being introduced

to the HSCA staff members, I was shown a copy of

the attached letter to the Committee giving permission
_ £or me to be questioned, and a copy of the attached
_letter from the DDCI which discusses security

procedures. I asked for and received copies of the

two documents.: Prior to the 24 March interrogation,

I was told by SA/DO/O that my personnel files had

been made available to the Committee.

Z. (U) After being asked questions regarding’
my CIA career, it became apparent that the staff
members were trying to establish that personnel
assigned .to thee din the early 1960's —
had knowledge of an alleged CIA connection to Lee |

. Harvey Oswald. I was asked when I first heard of
the assassination of President Kennedy, when I first
heard of Lee Harvey Oswald, etc. I was asked to supply
many details of the organization, personnel, and :
operation of thel during the period of
my tour there -- from 1961 through 1965.

 

-3. €} In the: ‘context of ny previous assign-
ment to the former Domestic Operations Division
beginning in 1965, I was asked twice in a most
forcible fashion. whether. I knew Howard Hunt, to which

 

 

   

CONFIDENTIAL

re eee ; O49 —
‘04-40066-10000 a . RNAL os
~ +L], UNCLASSIFIED - ONLY owes (] CON” NTIAL CC] secret

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

   

TSUBIEGT. (Opnonah :
; : Frederick Randat1' s Interrog yi i 9g
A

_ 16. tom

cl buildin) eer designation, room eumber, ond | bate OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

fee . INITIALS to whom. Draw a line acrass column after each comment.)

".  SA/DO/0 oe a » DDO agrees that Randall -
. : . a valid gripe. Would
2. . ZZ

 

please find out from OLC
how his name was provided. to
the House Committee without:
any coordination with this
Directorate. . It does seem
a bit of a high-handed way.
to deat. with: ‘ours officers. :

Ken Knaus

 

 

 

            

fom 610 “ater [7] secret [] CONFIDENTIAL [] WTFRNAL” Cy UNCLASSIFIED
 

 

 

Pinsiulaicacius Wiicumainias ncn Scaife mt Seid 8 abs oak ake obec ces te

didi Corea 8 Ystwihbields api

we ew my tt 4 °
ai ’ fe a

m4 "y answered (twice) in the negative. The interrogators
- also asked if I was employed in the section of the
* Domestic Operations Division which handled covert
action activities targetted against the United States.
I.replied that CIA does not run CA operations against
« U.S. targets. oo,

4. (U) Although I had heard a rumor that the

interrogation was based on allegations by a former
finance clerk assigned to the | the staff
members would not provide me with any information

regarding the purpose of their investigation or of
their lead. The New York Times article of 27 March
1978, attached, reports the Wilcott allegations
together with the information that the lead came from
Philip Agee, and that Wilcott was represented ata
committee hearing by Agee's attorney.

5. (U) Although CIA has been an easy mark for
anyone looking for a cheap headline during the past
three years, my reaction to this situation is that |
the rights of many Americans, including current and
former employees of CIA, are being violated by the
procedures of this investigation. I can easily draw
a conclusion from the Times article that the HSCA is
unwittingly performing destruction work conceived by .
Agee and his backers. I also wonder how any investi-
gation can be based on such flimsy evidence. 4resefit’
having.. mys. personnel. file..reviewed bythe HSCA without...
my,,.permission.” Finally,.1.do not like. being shown
an unclassified letter. concerning.me (J am under’ |
cover), which had already been sent to the Congress:
‘without. my knowledge. ae . oe

6. (C) IFT have asked that any “notes ‘made. by
Mr. Leap and Mr. Hardway that are taken from ‘the CIA
Headquarters building. use my alias, Frederick
Reynolds. I hope that this request is carried out.

0,

C,.!Randall (C)

 

Attachments:
a. Undated letter to HSCA
b. Letter to HSCA dated 23 March 78
c. Clipping from the New York Times

dated 27 March 78

=2-

CONFIDE NTIAL

PTR ARADO LIE DOE LEPTIN D AG EA NE ae PEN NR Pa dN my AE Se Te RN ee nena eee are mt ee me meres Fe ees eet cee

”

 
