14-00000

-

r

 

ATL-21-75
21 February 1975

4, Austia said that Williamson, himsalf, had not been in touch with
him. We understood Austin to say that Williamson's friend was a past
informer. Austin said that the last time he had talked with bia ha had
told Austin about a ‘super dopa deal” that apparently Custeas was never
able to confirm. Austin described him as ome who seems to have ‘flights
of faney,’ and at one point in bis conversation with us he said, “I'm
really a littla leary of the suy.% According te what Austin said,
Williamson's friend had told him that “they (whoever “they” may be} were
running guns into Nicaragua and inte Mexice supposedly through the Port
of Laredo, Texas. Austin said that thay had had peopla doing some
checking at Laredo and so fay nothing had checked out.

5. Williamson's friend had teid Austin that he “was only going te
do this (provide information) for the money,“ and mofety was discussed.
he the figure ef $50,000 was brought up, Williamson's friend indignantly
told Austia worda to the effect: “I can go te the CIA and they will pay
me wore than that just for tha information.” When Austin told bim te ge
ahead, Williamson's friend said “Well, as a matter of fact, this friend of
wine (apparently referring to Williamsen) already has.“ Then he asked
that Austin as 4 favor act as 4a go~between and set up @ meeting for him
with vg. All of which led to Austin’s calling ua. Wa reiterated to
Auatin that ve had no desire to meet with Williamson's friend. Wa hope ha
wilk get the message and that will be the end of thie waste of tine.

&. We explained to Austin our mission aa collectors of foreign ©
information, and Austin said that if anything should turn up that would be
of legitimate interest to us ha would let us know. Austin was very

frieadly throughout. and we thanked bin as a matter of courtesy for having
Sone te the troubla of contacting ua. :

JOH R. PATERSON

dRPeterson ‘mw

Support Sraach/0s3

Services Branch

E 2 DMPDET CL BY o10650

¢

 

 
 

104-10074-10070

 

7 ti ~ ne S supp . Branch/0ss ;
: } .  Bieyee}

. . . , Zeer
ATL-21-75 i
MEHORANDUH FOR TRE RECOSD 21 February 1975 H
{

Atlanta Resident Office if L .

; ; jt-

    

up to Call-In to Agency Headquarters/dJohn Daniel
| » Williamson x|Carroliton, Georgia Wate

REFERENCE: ATL~4-75, 14 January 1975, same subject

1. On 13 February 1975, Spectal Agent (fnu) Austin of the Special
‘Tavestigations office of the US Bureau of Customs Atlanta office - i
(Phone: (404) 526-7731) called and wanted to speak to the writer of so
this memorandum. We were out of town at tha tine and he asked the
secretary, who took. bis call, to have us return his cail Tuesday morning
(18 February) vhen we returned. Wa called him back the morning of
18 February. . ; |
2. Mr. Austin said that tha reason he was calling was with regard :
to a contact he had had frem a friend of “Dem Williamson” (the individual -
whe had called oar Agency and whe waa the subject of the above-raferanced | ~ :
memorandum). The information that Austin had to impart was essentially . 1
' as follows: i

3. Williamson's friend, whe was the one that Wilifamscs called us
about with regard to information on the shipment of arma and the impending
overthrow of a foreign country (see citad mexorandum), had contacted Austin.
and asked that Austin try to set up a meeting between him G#illiamson's
friend) and us (Austin and Peterson). He had provided Auatin with our name
and phone number vhich had been given him by Wilifmeson. We told Austin

' that we had only talked with Williamson one time--on the phone-—when .
Williamson had sought to set up a aeating between ua and bis friend, and j

 

“s

that we had never met Williansen'’s friend and knew nothing about hin other i

than what Williamson bad told us on the phone. We told Austin that we. kad
given our name and offics phone nusber to Williassen because Williamson
had said his friend would like te get in touch with us, and further told :
him that siuce that time (7 Jaquary 1975) we had had no call from him--which, |
' va gaid, seemed atrange for someone apparently so eager to contact us. Ye j
informed Austin that we often get crank calls aud wa don't just go around |
' meating with people who call up on seme weird subject. We said that wa were |
sorry now that we had ever given Williamson our number. He also told Austin = |
that the typa ef information that Williesson apoke of-——shipment. of arms to - |
other countries—was something entirely outaide our area of jurisdiction, : i
and that should #illiauson's friend cali or had he called we would : soc j
that he provide: his information to the FBI.

 
 
   

TL TERE cory =. pg OT ELE Se

 

2 2 TIMPDEY CL BY 010650 *
