gence contained a memorandum dated
which indicated that lst Lt. Henry L. Bretton
to the IG and to AGO, through
a personnel security investiga-

concerning his marital status.
failed to indicate misconduct on

(Another name check
of the files of the Count
Facilit

on's ex-

The results i
favorable to Bretton. The CIC re
Bretton at the time was being inv
with his application for

; . Based on past (1945) unresolved questions regarding Bretton's
political Orientation, Bretton was security disapproved in
September 1961 as a Personnel Placement Division Lead Source.

The Domestic Collection Division had an interest in Bretton

y 1963 in connection with a trip Bretton was taking to .. .
Nigeria and other parts of Africa. An AD HOC Secret or Confidentia
clearance was denied Bretton. J ,

ion,advised that Bretton was
had inquired
A representative of the Africa Division

ad informed him

 
 

‘og 10105-10078

identical to the writer of the letter dated 3 January 1975 to
the Director, .

Political Sympathies. Consequently, Bretton was security dis-
approved in August 1945 for transfer to oss.

Bretton was informed in 1945 that he would not be hired by
OSS because "Washington Security would not approve his employment."
Bretton reportedly was "distressed" by this decision. In December
1945, when Bretton returned to the U.S., he Personally called at
the Security Office and Stated he Was aware he had been disapproved
and requested the reason thereof. He was told there were no

In addition, according to a memorandum in Bretton's file

dated 19 November 1945 from the Strategic Services Unit, Mission

him, Bretton was very much upset. The memorandum indicated
that Bretton had earned the high regard of the officers immediately

concerned for some tentative work Bretton had done for the Unit.

In April 1949 Bretton was still evidencing concern for being
dismissed from SSU. Bretton was given a Statement that the
Adjutant Genera] had no information that the circumstances of
his honorable discharge from the service might in any way be
considered derogatory. .

In July 1956, Bretton was of interest to the Domestic
Collection Division as a potential source of foreign intelligence
information. In connection with this interest, National Agency
Name Check was conducted on Bretton at Army Intelligence. The

OS § 0021/4
F RETURS 1 oy
Basleytece ise Cry oN
Oo Nut Reproduce Tai
