 

 

   

above as a close associate of Subject and also of alleged ©

Seviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASIN, is the Subject ee
of SSD file £35095. ROGARD is a former U. S. Marine whose. «
‘parents were Polish-born and who lived in China for . .
twenty years prior to returning to the United States ino oo

- 1950. He allegedly: was pro-Soviet, 10: ridiculed White .
"> Russians who did not avail themselves of Soviet citizen~ .
 ghip made available to thems hired as Editor of his a

 

".°'! meentein Evexing Journal, following its resumption after -
. - . She War, one. ts onoff wno was an employee of TASS; ; :
. followed a Communist inspired line in his newspapey; —

and published without comment in his Tientsin Evening
Journal a letter discrediting American M ary Police

In flentsin, comparing them unfavorably with Soviet
Military Police in Harbin who were praiged in glowing
-termag etc.  ROGARD, "if used" by Project PILLAR, Lote
was to be limited to Category IIs but his wife, Reuza, =
Ibragimoff ROGARD, #79069, had{clearance for a “veryiS — 7
sensitive use on ,anothsr Project! .

Mrs. ROGARD appears to have had

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

she gave aA\8hard time’ for months refused .
to sign hér secrecy & cement juntil 30 November 1959. ae
arious relatives of 3 have in the past been ;
associated with thd Mrs. ROGARD appears to ~
_ have had much the same history as Subject. She was oe
.. born in Russia of Russian-born parents, of Turko-Tartar ..
~ nationality; left Russia in 1919 for Harbins was Se
educated in Mukden and Tientsing and was employed in

Tientsin in various import-export firms, etc. (No ;
thorough study has been made of the ROGARDS! files. jf

1953. Her association wi oar Protect, ted in | oo
May ewe the) termination Cf Project, J ee,

 

; Le DD. Chertiwg
: M. D. Stevens :
OS :SRS:MDSthle ps

  

(enn eee ore MONTE ES ee
74-0000

   

S

  
  
  

 

- Gonsulete. From 197 to 19h9 he stated that he was the owner of
“othe “anchor Printing Shop! in which the "North China Marine"

=: gontimed publication in Tsingtao, Chinae The KAMKINs came to
* i. the United States in 19h9 arriving in San Francisco in Marche

   

- as of 1957 KAMKIN was being used on an unclassified basis by -
the CIA Library ace publications procurement channel. It is, of :
course, possible that Subject's interest 4n "RODINA" is on behalf +

; of this Agencye

 

involved in the report to the French
the well known Communist "Four Continents Book Store",
ications and Products" (MS-2001-I) and ; .
a Company" (#91916). These organizations sre

. wegistered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. The Four .

ce em ee Ra a RD OOO BEES BEY

i
2
3a
E
zg
B
Z
a
’
4
3
a
a
g
z

ons of the four principal outlete for Communist political prop=-—
ates. "Wniversal Distributors Company" is oan,
described as "an official distributor of Communist Party Literature" er
and as "Commnist controlled". It is the distributing agency for re

 

¥ a . le
_ Information from a reliable confidentiel informant reflects.
that during the summer of 1959 KAMKIN indicated he planned to ~
“pen a branch book store in San Francisco to be operated by So
SAPEIXIN. The store was to be called Znenie, Russian Book Stores
-S and located at 5237 Geary Street, San Francisco, This S. SAPELKIN, -
-.4n all probability, is Mrs. KAMKIN's brother-inelaw Semen I. es
|) SAPELKIN, MS-5000, who with his wife Nina, nee DAVIDOVA, aka
Se DAVIDOF, was the subject of an FBI Record Check Request in May
Woe, 1955. (The wife Nina, per the check sheet, resided at Route ae
we “c++ Jy Van Leer, ffennessee from 1951 to 1952, which was the KAMKIN's
_gdarese during this period.) an eS

‘fhe 1955 FBI Record Check Request on SAPEIKIN indicated that.
he wae formerly a painter; that his wife Nina was a dentist; that —
: both were born in Russie; that he arrived in the United States - :
" pom France around the end of 156, was stateless and had his first
. 3 and that she arrived in San Francisco 5 June 1951. They . :
were residing at 105 Harvard Street, NoWe, Washington, D. Co
; (which was the address of Sabject's book store); and had formerly
7 oe resided in Tientsin and Shanghai, China. Both their children :
i es. were born in Tentsin, one in 19h6 and one in 1919.

 

os An RI check requested in 1957 for USIA indicated that the name |
: os Semen I. SAPELKIN appeared in a report from a reliable source in.
foots May 1950, which dealt with refugees dn an IRO camp at Guinan,

bo a Samar, Philippine Islands; and, according to the re rt, he had . a
» S  * Seen a member of the Russian Residents Association (probably Russian = |

hy

     

co ee pm Oo ncn felon eenpcengeenss SER MELEE IF
[0g 40132-40017

as

 

ge

 

a

nea: : , te , ‘ -
* .UNITED STATEs GOVERNMENT

DATE:]7 December 1959

 

Ch ; RETURN TO oe x
FROM = ae : Background Use Only
oe Me Pe Stevens, wp /sRS/0S ce a “Do Not Reproduce *

   

| 1) SUBJECT!” XAMEKTH, Victor Pétroviek
7 - (gJ-2752 = SSD-90097 |
| .

been made in connection with

a request from the C officers Fer Desk, with reference -

4nformation from the\Chief of Lon, Paylg, that Subject's Washington -

_. book store, a8 of the summer of 1959, was one
- dn the United States where subscriptions could be bought for MRODINA",.

. the bulletin edited by the Repatriation Committees of East Berline . -

© wRODTNA')? (LA PATRIE)»

and is paiied An sealed envelopes, has hee

in France. (See attached thermof axe)

r oo , Security files reflect that in April 1957 the FBI advised that oe

Victor Petrovich KAMKIN, Elena Andreevne KAMKIN SAPELKIN

had been the subjects of an Internal Security - R type investigation

: ag of 1951 and thatr There is no derogatory data of a subversive
nature in the files of this Bureau concerning the subject of your...

po inquiry (KAMKIN). It should be noted, however, that Victor

, Petrovich KAMKIN is currently of investigative interest to this” .

_ Bureau and, accordingly, it is requested that any contact of him

- 4n behalf of the Gantral Intelligence Agency be handled by this

Bureau." It was advised orally that the Buresu was using KAMKIN

gp @ sources

 

   

    

an undated plind menorandwn (possibly @ staff 6.
SAPELKIN is Elena KAMKIN's sister and as ‘of vs
KAMKINe in Tennesses. Nina SAPELKIN was

whet born in Russia 18 August 19123 and Was evecva

s'té_ Samar, Philippine ‘Tglends under IRD auspices in April I9L9, oe
"accompanied by her husband Semen I. SAPELKIN and their two childrens ~

She came to the United States in 1953 and lived in Tennessee for .

the KAMKINs. The SAPELKINs reportedly renounced

Shanghai in September or Ostober 19h8.

 

 

 

: . high school and university in Harbi
a 195 he was in the printing and publishing business
Fool oy.  durdng 19)6-7 says he was with "Special Services, Section II, |
7 S<" ymohes Marine Corps", working on its newspaper, "North China
oo inet, In 19h7 he was co-publisher of "Free Word” which he says
wae an anti-Soviet newspaper closed by pressure of the Soviet | ”

 

 
    

ted from Shanghal to -

     

i
'
'

 
  
    

  

of his, -

ft China early in  . Loo
at time. Both ~

a Eugene

ction of

    

| 4m 19h5- Me KAMKIN has now written to Hong Kong asking Mre ;
-” SAPELKIN to supply certein economic information on North China and
-. Manchuria for the use 8 can ormment'. Mr. KAMKIN.  -)
indicates that he is involved in certain intelligence activitiess™ . oe
na letter of 13 July 1950, offering his services to ONI, Subject:

Samed GORDENEV as one who could "substantiate my work in China, 022050 0
ONE advised CIA that their records contained no derogatory infor- ;

: mation regarding Subject, but that ONT did not contemplate utiliz- . _
7 _ dng his services./ roo ; we
ee Tis _ Subject's friend Mr. SAPELKIN" may well be Mr. Vertomin
Peon Wa Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, the Subject of Hong Kong Dispatch, #02, —. -.
seers cetained sxho in all probability is related to Mra. KAMKIN's brother-in~-lav, .
enarengren’. Semen I. SAPELKIN. ore

gg individu at : . ; oo ee
aeeAes  .,- Avoording te a 1955 RI check conducted on one Alexander So
afl eo PORIOEF for G2, a report of 17 May 1950 advised that ORLOFF Who oS
ae woe ad been described as an "Old Soviet worker) was closely associated © -
< with Venienin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, an alleged Soviet agent at =
oO the IRO Cemp at Samar, P. Ie As reported above, Mrs, KAMKIN's

|

|

\ Veniamin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN's friend ORLOFF, according to
| a report of 8 April 1950, was alleged to have influenced a district

' leader of the IRO Camp at Samar with pro-Soviet propaganda, and to |
re have worked with a number of other pro-Soviet internees in the camp

| ae to Govietize the Russian refugees interned there. According toa -
report dated 5 May 1950, ORLOFF allegedly was believed to bea
i Soviet agent. (The report noted that thig information originated .

{ > dn the IRO Camp in Samar; that much information originating there

had proven unreliable; and that the reliability of this particular

4nformation hed not been determineds)

 

. ay L-

. - : . Sy eeaees ae ee at A ET ER METI RR BFL TIN:

 
   
 
  
 
  
   

Salta a

Sin Take

 

i

  
   
  
 
 

- with Bernard 5

 

 

that there could be wuch truth
curity files reflects that
a "Count ORLOFF of the

ttae of LKO),“uho assisted

Baris who was living
who was believed to : of the Bulgarian Military Intelligence
RLOFF" also helped arrange oTTAl's entrance inte

Services "Count 0 5

the United States. Alexander S. ORLOFF and "Count ORLOFF" may well -
pe identical with Alexender ORLOFF, pi~2881, a highly suspect :
qndividual of Russian birth, and a former AMTORG employes who was

gecurity disapproved by oss in 1936. This latter individual, per

 

~ a 1943 OSS investigation, was known 9 "The Count.

oy Staff C memorandum regarding KAMKIN, reported .-
41 June 1948 indicated that ons
: tion with
nery of the Chihli Prees
The source of this

Publishing Houge, known as Nashe ZNANIE. He was closely 3¢
GARD of the Chihli Press, who in turn was

associated wi \elleged Soviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASINe —
_f . . :

to the Staff G memorandum 5 4 report from the Far

63 indicated that a source of unknown reliability -

atated that one Victor KAMKIN, who :
acted as a paid 4nformer of ;

the Japanese during World War IJ; and was & paid informer of Ue Se

after the Ware With the assistance of the

ent in Tsingtao, China, he became Chairman

of the Russian Immigrant Society in Tsingtao in 19h86 There seens

gmall doubt that
N, and with Subjects
of the Russian Inmigrant Association in Tsi
nis friend SAPELKIN, as reported in Hong Kong Dispatch
#402. Note that Victor N. KAMKIN was in charge of a Russian .
House in China known as Nashe Znenie; and that the
store Subject intended to opan 4n San Francisco (and may
+o be called Znarie (this work in Russian

TS

whe

 

 

 
