 

 

 

Bea sa cate ew

~ 4 LeC4—

| BONRDENTAL ean OP

3 October 1977

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Visit of Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel
and Staff Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinations (U)

1. (C) On 3 October 1977, Professor G. Robert Blakey,
Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee
on Assassinations, visited the Agency for general discussions
on several matters. First, he met with Russ Holmes, DDO,
John Walker, O/SA/DO/O, and the undersigned to discuss certain
Agency material relating to Mr. Loren E. Hall, who is of
interest to the House Select Committee in their investigation
of President John F, Kennedy's assassination.

2.  (C) Blakey then met with Richard Lansdale and
Richard Rininger, OGC, Russ Holmes, DDO, and the undersigned
to discuss a letter which he had requested from the Agency
to the House Select Committee on Assassinations regarding
any affiliation that Hall had had with the Agency. While ~
Blakey had been informed that no such affiliation had ever
existed, he wanted this information in writing so that it
could be shown to Hall and his attorney. Blakey had reason
to believe that Hall would attempt to refuse to answer certain
questions put to him by the Committee, claiming that he had
a security obligation running back to the Agency. This
request from Blakey was a matter of some urgency since the
Select Committee was interviewing Hall on 5 October.

(This matter was subsequently resolved by a letter request
from Blakey and a written response to him Signed by the
Legislative Counsel. The Legislative Counsel's response
was coordinated with the General Counsel.)

3. (C) Subsequent to the meeting in OGC, Blakey met
with Dan Godar, OS, to discuss a case of ‘one of his staff
employees who did not meet the criteria of DCID 1/14 for
clearance purposes. He was shown Headquarters Regulation 10-3
to advise him of the standards we require for CIA employees
and, in addition, was given copies of DCID 1/14 and EO 10450.
Blakey asked for and received certain advice and guidance from
Godar on how to handle this particular problem with his employee

. mo 136,
hr LA (eggueeal .

cc: OGC (Rininger) Chief, Coordination and Review Staff
0/SA/DO/0_ (Walker) Office of Legislative.-Counsel

ae era vt
17 SEAS... SLC/ITC/sm BONFIDENTIAL
‘

OLC: 78-2406/2
20 June 1978

en,

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

SUBJECT: Meeting with HSCA Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey

1, In the course of a meeting with Mr, Blakey this morning, we
discussed the method by which questions would be put to the agent
in Mexico, It developed that he has in mind two agents, the one about
whom we knew((Durant and one with which we were not familiar
(Manuel Calvillo). I think he was not entirely clear as to these two
people, although his alternative approaches place on us a requirement
to be sure that we identify them properly for purposes of his questions,
They are discussed below: :

° oF

ae @urand) He recalled that(Duran) operated the photo-

graphic surveillance post of the Soviet Embassy. I told

him that I understood that (Durant)was in charge of the

Cuban coverage, ~ 03

 

1 et ant ENN ao esa

 

b. Manuel Calvillo. He understood that Calvillo ran the
Cuban photographic surveillance site. Beyond this,
however, Calvillo was of interest to him for other
reasons, Elena Garo dePaz told of seeing Oswald at
various parties in Mexico City, at the time of his

visit there in 1963, She also said that ‘a couple of

days" after the assassination of President Kennedy,
Calvillo picked her up, took her to a hotel and inter-
rogated her,

AO aa ets

2. Given the possible confusion of who operated the Cuban and
Soviet OPs, Mr, Blakey said that he would want the individuals
correctly identified and have the questions addressed to them.

Ok SIN Ae aimee iinet

3. Additionally, Mr, Blakey wants such information as we have

on Calvillo, .

; S. D, BRECKINRIDGE
; OLG:SDB:kjw (21 June 1978 _™ oF
Distribution: Oneinat "BE chrono AofZ

PCS/LOC (Shepanek) SSA.
wmpper ct. By.L 2279

+ ance eo are RS

     

i : OS (Sullivan) OF Aine :
i OIG (Young) VLUiit i
j

OP (Haudesheldt)

 
  
 

ee
 

 

{
|
i
i
i

Se RH ce

AT RRR Se Cae HP imac a8

; ° ” . - ; r. ingy
. . [oe #7022370 |

| _RONFIDENTIAL --  f/se#

OLO_ RECORD burl

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with HSCA Chief Counsel G, Robert Blakey

At a meeting with the HSCA Chief Counsel and Staff Director
this morning, Mr. Blakey discussed approaches as-to how HSCA
questions can be put to CIA agents in Mexico,

One possible approach is to use recently-new personnel
now assigned to the Inspector General, I named for him. Captain
Niles Gooding and Lt, Col. Lewis Sorley. He asked for resumes,
and I arranged with Mr, Waller to provide them to Mr. Blakey,
As an alternative possibility, Mr. Blakey suggested that Burton
Wides on the IOB staff be used. He pointed out that Mr, Wides
was familiar with the subject matter, having worked on it during
the Church Committee inquiry, and whose “Congressional roots"
would improve the appearance of his handling this mission. As
an IOB staff member, he is now a member of the executive branch.
I stated that Mr. Wides would be personally acceptable to me but
that the basic issue is non-Agency access to an Agency clandestine
asset, Iadded that the IOB may have reservations about Mr, Wides'
accepting such a commission if it is offered.

T undertook to report these two questions for consideration.

sae BL *

S, D, BRECKINRIDGE

Distribution: 1- OLC Chrono
Original - OLC Subject

1- DDCI

1- DDO _

1-IG
loc ao

OLC: SDB: kjw 21 June 1978

x oOLs 3S
 

eaten

© ee Dd ee

1:9 JUN 17e

Possible Downstream Problems With HSCA
stream Froblems With HSCA

1. To date the problems with HSCA have not been major, but
some of the difficulties to date may assume increased importance in
the remaining period of the investigation. This memorandum under-
takes to consider some of them.

2. HSCA Requests and CIA Response. HSCA appears to be follow.
ing a leave-no-stone-unturne approach to the investigation. Just about
@ request. Frequently the names are incomplete and identifying material
so limited that research becomes tremendously time-consuming. If HSCA

vestigation. Two things characterize the present status of HSCA and

CIA responses.. There are a number of requests that have not yet been
answered, and the larger portion of material made available for review
has not yet been reviewed by HSCA investigators. CIA recently has made
arrangements to improve its responses to requests, but the basic problem
will remain. We feel HSCA is falling behind and that it will be critical
of the Agency for its own failures in this respect.

3. Access. The FBI reportedly has provided no direct access
to its files for HSCA investigators. CIA is providing direct access
to its files with very limited sanitization. The result is the in-
vestigators have had access to a lot of sources-and-methods material.
The criticism that HSCA investigators can make is not in our restrictions,
but the effectiveness of our responses. As noted above, steps have been
taken to remedy this. ;

4. Access to Agents. In contrast to very full access to Agency
Files and documents the Tine has been drawn on access to agents. One
agent was interviewed over CIA objections, following the failure to
notify CIA of the intention to interview him as provided for in the
working agreements. In one other case of which we are aware we have
objected to an agent being interviewed and, in the absence of CIA
assistance, he was not contacted nor interviewed. This is the subject
of a formal protest by the HSCA chairman. The DDCI has offered a ;
method, alternative to direct access to the agent, for obtaining the
answers desired. :

5. Defectors. As a result of the dramatic presentations in the
Epstein Book Legend the HSCA has focussed on this issue. Staff members
have stated recently that they consider this to be one of the two most

 
 

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Adurcel mv wer ,

Attacked FS Blaad. | WMeharendimy

ed

5
eS
rar aly

ewe
tro

Kae

WOve.

   

FRM 101 ferries

eenexol
Muits
Chaivuay
Ke
TSS ve

a souk i,
. TO Me

S\eaul a

bacngroud ; prrer .
. ) te
BVO ES U4 eek THs
Ste wes .
more, tha, .
acass: bo
yuteaded

@rzkera

cavervs
et
aad ws
Bwme
Van Convers akan

Grom

Ce eH Aeliveof kK.

C pt ah, KA $ MA alo wy at
iM yo 9 Suwe. the
Sard we wel So chat:
™DS ovh. wo uk eel - JT.

A433
 

 

a”

 

important issues that they have, so far as the Agency and the Kennedy
assassination are concerned. After considerable exchange we have been
advised that the staff no longer is interested in the question of
Nosenko's bona fides, per se. The interest is now focussed on what
Nosenko knew about Lee Harvey Oswald; questioning on this point
apparently is intended to be detailed and intensive. If Nosenko's
bona fides are not an issue the need to address the sensitive aspects
of his knowledge, and the operational use made of it, may not become

a security problem. That information, however, is revealed in varying
degrees in some of the material reviewed by the HSCA. While we may
have some reservations about how the Nosenke problem is handled by the
HSCA, and personally how he is handled, the earlier concerns of security
consideration currently are somewhat reduced.

6. Mexico City. The HSCA staffers have stated that CIA coverage
in Mexico City is one of the two important issues on which they currently
are focussing. The subject matter is classically one of intelligence
sources and methods. Additionally, it involves the relationships of
the Agency with instruments of a foreign government in a way that would

be politically embarrassing to that government were_i win.
24 CLiaisonrelationships are part of the story, as are y

operations and undeclared unilateral operations. Pd icity could be
lastingly harmful to Agency operations in this important post.

7. Final Report. The Committee is faced with the problem of

‘credibility. It functions under the generally reserved atmosphere

in Congress towards CIA which creates Pressure to write a tough report
that shows the independence of the investigators. While a report of
Agency coverage in Mexico can be written using euphemisms for how the
coverage existed, the pressures will be to spell it out in detajl.

We foresee some difficulties when the time comes for CIA's review of
the report for security considerations.

8. Performance of the Agency. The HSCA charter includes per-
formance of the intelligence agencies. Part of the vulnerability of
the Agency to criticism today is that different perceptions have
evolved than existed at the time of the Warren Commission investi-
gation. The Agency's performance during the Warren Commission inquiry
has already been criticized in the Church Committee report (by Senator
Schweiker) in-a badly drafted critique. While the Schweiker draft is
flawed, the Agency is subject to criticism in some respects, and an
internal CIA study so stating has been reviewed by HSCA investigators.
We do not know to what extent there will be criticism of the Mexico

City Station although critical observations have been elicited from
Agency employees about management there during the Warren Commission
investigation. HSCA staffers have indicated that they will be critical
of the CIA handling of Nosenko (despite thet« own readiness to give

 
 

 

 

= solmerewon Diana:nie Hain ranenitic Wn tore cet RAEN am camer.

‘rettinatnles2 ou pe Ana crEN Meena steneineeenee.

bees Phe

aaraaectbenitee ner Ane

 

Te

9. Style. A number of the HSCA investigators have experience
as criminal prosecutors. They are accustomed to dealing with criminals
that they intend to convict. In the present instance the testimony
that they take is not tested by the usual cross examination; as we do
hot know some of the lines they have taken, we do not know what re-
search to conduct that may balance the perspectives they may be
developing. Some of those who have testified have gained the opinion
that HSCA investigators are trying to prove theories, sometime critical
of the Agency, as distinguished from gathering all the facts ina
balanced picture. Because of the HSCA approach our views on this are
for the large part. visceral, but are sufficiently firm to give us some
concern for the kinds of conclusions that we eventually will encounter
and not have time to check out. : ;

10. Security. Due note should be taken at this time that the
HSCA, in its reorganized form under Mr. Blakey, has an unusual record
for security. We are aware of no leaks. Nevertheless, we are antic-
ipating difficulties at the time of the final report. Beyond that,
we are concerned that when Mr. Blakey's discipline is gone some of his
staff members--whom he has described as strongly anti-CIA--may feel free
~ give their own version of things. This of course remains for the
uture. 7 .

Qmanry
CiugnMed
