 

annns Powe ne oe
104+10161-10132 prgenaenes = a

nero a : , Norrative Description
ard for Heroic Action or Agce: vance of Hazard: Was oct voluntary,? Describe” why act was outstanding, and if it was more than nor-
lly expected. Explain, why, ond how. Han aerial or morine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individ-

, and all urugual Zircumstances. Indicate results of the act.

p
‘ard for Achievement; Service, or Performonce: State character of service during period for which recommended. (Give complete de-
‘iption of administrative, technical, of professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assign-
nt ond relief.) What did the individual do thot merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade

J experience in similar positions or circumstences? If appropriate, include production records and assistonce rendered by other per-
as or units. Whot obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include refer-
ze to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation atready on file which supports this recommendation.

 

 

naturalization. ;
At

 

 

 

[When diplomatic relations between the U.S.
and Guba were broken, subject was on a@ vacation in the United States. He immediately
left for Cuba te assume hie duties, knowing that the risk was even greater now, but
ccs at thie point wore very important. He arrived in Cuba

 

He was harassed mumerous tines and lived under contimusus strain eubjest te
arrest by the Cuban 0-2. On four different occasions he was actually taken inte
eustedy by the Cuban authorities and questioned at some Length. te this danger

wotil 1961 and 434 an outstanding job
at

The request for award is based particdlarly on bis successful activity during
this period on our behalf and under extrese hasardous conditions.

 

 

 

 

 

()] continuen on ATTACHED SHEET

 

ENCLOSURES (List individually) If orginator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance,
attach affidavits of eyewitness or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts.

2 PROPOSED CITATION Intel. } , 3 af Lte

3.

. RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY 43, TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL MAKING
RECOMMENDATION

. Hg ; _ ;
Ee We Sctunidt AOATED iil Tine

ction E Recommendation Forwarded Through Officials Concerned For Their Information
TITLE AND SIGNATURE .

  
  

wee ie

Head of Career Service
(Career service of nominee)

 

DATE

  

TITLE AND SIGNATURE
Deputy Director of Operating Component

Deputy Director of Career Service

 
