74-00000

 
  
   
     
   
      
 
  
     
     

AEN DISSE .
WO FOREN SEH ay 2063 a |
i ~ . . . s
.
| , FO focistent Cale? of Staff, Inteliinenes a ;
, Departzient of tho Anny . oe : :
| Attention: Gource Neclater

Inte ragency Source Register -

 
  

CLEMARD, Joseph Chartes mesune pe
aks: CHARLES, Clemard Joseph -. ‘

; 4. Reference is made to your request for registration dated
3 June 1968 concerning Subject. Youare referred to OO°E=324/ .- ~
06349266 dated 14 April 1966, subject: Clemard Joseph Charles - ;
Belleved to be President Duvalier' '@ Personal Financial Manager/
Blogrophical Data oa C J Chariea; OO-A(S) 322/14068- 8 dated wh
ipee- subject: Clemard Joseph-Chartes Must Raise US $605 Thousand a,
Before He Can Resume His Banking and Other Activities; and OO-A(8)
B dated 22 May 1968, subject; Rearrest of Clemard ‘
Joseph Charies/Charies Is Not Able to-Raise U5$605 Thousand Rassom/, ’
Data Concerning Charles’ US Bank Accountse/Preaident Duvalier
Might Settle for US$100 Thousand Cach/Charies Hae Credit of .
U8$300 Thousaad ia National Baak of the Republic of Haitiand Clans —
ry) sditlonal US$i00 Thousaad. Copies are attached for your retention,

  

         
     
   
      
 
     
  
   
   
   
    
   

    

   

 

  

  

_ &. The Interagency Source Register hae ae record of a.
current operational interest in Subject. DCS reserves the eal to
contact Gebject eader the provisions: of DCID 2/3... OX

    

 

AM-28, 910:

 

‘~ asl. S.attachments as stated above -
RID/CE: . IMA /ID/bdt

BASED ON: -201-357029

FILE IN: 20123870298

 

   
74-0000

No Present Contact

OT “ty

right to contact sub.lect

sane 5

Pagvtous

 
  
  
   
      
 
 

This material contains information affecting the National Detonse ef the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U S.C. Secs 793 and 794, the transmision oF revelation of whch in any manner to an unauthonzed person is prohibited by law.

 

= 1
{

CONTROLLED DISSEM i SO PIDER PIAL |” .NO DISSEM ABROAD

 

 

 

 

“T cOUNTRY pace : : REPORT NO.

 

SUBECT  ‘Clemnrd Joseph Charles Is Reportedly. _ DATE DISTR
Paid US$200 Thousand Ransom And Promised An ;

ggwueisee. fe

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

Additional US$00 Thousand in Return for ; NO PAGES. “) 2 a
Release frou Prison And Reinstatement As: . ‘
President of Comercial Bonk of Haiti REFERENCES .
. ‘

ALUATED INFORMATION — ; —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
 
        
    

  
 
  

(- coppspesetaz_t.
Lik ogee Bepezag_t

vominaion of this document Is limiled to'clvdhen erplovess and active duty miltary poreznol “within the intelhgence compe A.
al the sid member posi ‘and 12 thovg senior alficie's of the mamibe sgencias who Must act upon the Tatarmaton, However, unteus speuiicaliy conelled cn
Ih aegordance with paregreph 8 of OCID 17, may be relsared fo tulf compo.eets of the departments and aye tue af ina U §. Gevernment duacity
fperieapaling tho pradechon of Nanonal infelhyence, if LAU NOTA DISLUMINATEO TO CONTRACIURS. TH thell not be ditammated $a orgenita
fend oF perennel, including contents, under arcentractud relakomtp te ihe U.S: Gevernment wirhaut the writen pernuatiun of the eriginaler,

+

   
  

 
  
 

 
  

 

ae
DEP? OF STATE ATRGRAM (EXCERPT)
re
DATE: © 3 AUGUST 1968

SEASSERYERYXOM: “ HATPIAN FINANCIAL STATESMEN, 12
SUBJECT;  , -MID-1968

CLASSIFICATION: NOT.KNOWN

 
74-00000

 

 

 

Consul Generai/weak Condition o2 Banque

 

 

 

 

ue . : i ; . BAS :
»  GONTROLLED DISSEM i C-O-N-F-1-D-EeN-TeT-A<L - NO-DISSEM ABROAD
_ COUNTRY Haiti “REPORT NO. | | ;
: Clemard Charles Statement That He Will DATE OISTR, | — ee
: suasect Attempt Davalier Overthrow Feb-Mar -69/ . | et ~ a,
Charles Comment On No. 2and 3 Men In ~ wo paces 2 2 SNEC 1983 aE
Duvalier Regine; Confirmation by UK ; : : Lo

 

 

 

Comierciale d'Haiti/Background On Various "(SEOy , oF
Personalities and Their Present Location a Fi

 

 

THIS IS _UNEVALUATED INFORMATION . ‘

 

  

 

le

   
      
       
     
     
   
         
    
     
       
       
    
    

 

‘ a

  

“ tht latest visit when. he vag absent. in the US-

- @'Hpdta, owned the Sisal plantation and. mill, alao owed avtannery \ % .
- . $4nnneed by West German interosts, ani was the President of the lint Pa se
' Chamber of Commerce and Haitian correspondent for the First” National

‘ihe USB member agen 1, and: fo thasa senige sifisiel af the memiag r he rt 4 the lfcematin, Ho er, unless
Tae a rare een aL DEIO HIT Way be felestad te ese ee ot wen wever, unless epocieally aentraiod

deparierente
aipeting in the productia af Netional inielligence, If GHALL NOT AE O: itatmvatO-TC 10 CONTAARIONS thal net be diteminsiad to ergeniags :
~ fein ve nin of toa ere Sat a a SA : Gevecnment wrtent the writen permitan of ihe erignter orem

tut

i
I recently spent approximately three daya in Haiti (9-12 Dec 68) and — . . 4
while there had exteniled visits with Clemard. Joseph Charles, President, . 2
Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, and also owner of a sisal plantation and mill. 15
Present during visits with Charles was his personal assistant ‘and con- i

- f4dant, LudovichGelestines. Charles, a devout Catholic, personally told - 4
. me that he intended. %o attempt to overthrow Duvalier.-.He has made specifia

plans for this overthrow in late February or early March 1969. He clains
that he definitely has the Army and the Catholic ‘Church with him, and
that the overthrow will be without bloodshed. bey .

‘I had. not intended to contact other officials or individuals in Raitt. ao
Hovever, on the last day.of my stay I was invited to visit with Clovis —

M. Desinor, formerly Haiti's representative to the UN and currently Dr.
Duvaller’s Minister of Finance. He is said to be the No. 2 man in Haiti -
Rext to Duvalier. Present at thé meeting with Desinor was his ascistant, :
Bre Herve Boyer and reportedly the No. Zon -

I first met the individuals mentioned above in 1965-66 while on an
extend Roce dn Haitd.for business purposes. I was introduced to Charles
a driver assigned to me by the Haitian Government and whose
whl @, was the personal secretary for Charles. Rowe continued 9
witag Bavaon for me on that firet.and subsequent visits. to Haité except: o| °
» a ahs os
vy

When I first met Charles he. was President of the ‘banque’ Cpamereialé . a

     

Gity Bank of New York. During the perdod upproximately. one year prior
¢o dune 1967, Oharles put into effect'’s system of Soctal security (Office |
of National Adaurance) which was working well and liked by the. Haitian

 

the dineninanon of thie document fa limited 10 aivilien amployest and aslive duly aviary pevvenaal "thin the Jdntalligence coments

 

isa of the U. §. Government diresty

 

 
 

 

‘people. -He also devised an automobile insurance ‘aystem ‘and was financing a oe
this througn the Banque Commerciale a'Haits. Sy

In a period just. prior to June 1967 Duvalier was convinced by Desinor and

Boyer that Charles was, or at least had been, plotting Duvaliers' over-

throw. Together with a darge group Charles was. imprisoned an Port-au-F rinse

from June 1967 to June 1968. . é

6. Just prior to the arrest of Casrles, Max Rowe's ute, Raymonde, took

. },000 out of the bank and hid it near Cap Haitien in tha north and - 7
advieed Charles' wife of the location. ’In addition, ‘Max Rowclains . a vot
\ that in June 1967 he and his wife [Raymonde Rowe is in, process of getting ¢
US citizenship. Max is in the US on a visitor's permit) brought papers - ,

incriminating charles to the US and destroyed them.

BANK'S FINANCIAL CONDITION’

 

 

saw the bank balance sheet which shows auséts of US$2.9 million but only : le
4 _ ¥8$29,000 (as of 10 Dec 68) cash on hand, With ‘this, small amount of cach i 1
. ‘” he ean no longer make loans. He says'that-he has found it necessary to : :
. Sake sizeable loans to Haitians who have in tur made highly dpecwlative
loans to others at exorbitant ates of interest. Very minor amounts of

these loans have been repaid to the bank and thus hie current {{neacial ij .
position. 4 _

|
|
ij
i
:
| , .
| |. Ys Although Charles haa the bank, his position. at present is 4ifficult. I

! 6. Charles is hopeful that when puvalier's overthrow nas ‘been completed he ; .
poe will be able to get private financial assistance from the US." According a -
to Charles, US financial organizations have almost completely stopped SE,
their assistance because (of the oppressive Duvalier. Government. _.

Qe Charles says that Max Rowe is avere of his plans to overthrow Duvalier ;

. . ry
which were communicated to Rowe by a La Bonte Jean, who is also in the = = ut ;
_ US. Charles says that the Army is unhappy with Duvalier because of the’ =~ od
execution of fourteen officers after the abortive May 1968 invasion, ’ . ano

' | which included Major Toma, who was popular and foverful in his position as — en |

. @ Censor and in control of all foreigners coming into Haiti. Charles :

: maintains that the Ton Ton Macoutes ar@ no longer a potent force’ « Rob -
operational. They have no food and are receiving no pay.’ ‘ 4

- 2. John Pierre La Grand, UK Consul Generil dn Hatt’ and Sheil 012 Geners’ :
Manager, agrees eee with. Charles that Desinor and Boyer are’ Duvaliers closest
confidante. Fil ea (alias Frita(@elmont) is said by Rowe and _
La Grand to be Divalier's hatchet aan. .Ga is manager of. the Croupiers »

~ .@% the. Royal Cabaret. . cin Sra aye iat the Felden ‘(Duvalter) t0:

_, SeFonger thn ever, both in health and’ power, Q

 

       

GoGeNePoke bee TeLeAel
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

Pane em GN ARNE RAMEE rtietat ge,

 

CHARLES, CLEMARD JOSEPH. BANKER

a
” PORT=AU@PRINCE. :

OFFICIAL USE ONLY © 61A=P=162573-

 

 

 

 

 

      

anceps senate ats Sarto
 

SeE-C-R-E+T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
     
    
       
    
     
   
    
      
   
   
    
     
    
     
     
   
     
     
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
 

. BEOGRAPHIC SUPPLEMENT = mo, ue

RAITI

Clémard Joseph CHARLES .
President and General Manager 7 So, ,

    

 

discussed his grievances against Duvalier and the plot he | | :
. Gladmed to be instigating to overthrow Duvalier and replace '
him as President of Haiti, Charles stated that the group | :
supporting his efforts consisted primarily of soldiers, a
few militiamen, some professional men, priests, students,’
and assorted other well-placed individuale. He claimed
that representatives of. these groups had already agreed on.
the essential elements of a constitution which would ine
@lude a bicamerel legislature and an operative political
* party structure. The reporting official cautioned, howe
ever, that Charles' remarks should be viewed in light of
hia previous hiatory of relating such conspiracies, .

,
of the Commercial Bank of Haiti ° ; .
Clémard Joseph Charles, a man who has SEFERENCE eG ‘
ineisted on numerous occasions. that he will i
be the next President of Heiti, has been : .
chronically involved, directly or indirect~ :
ly, in rumored plots against President a oe.
-Duvalier which have never materialized, ‘
Ta May 1963 Charles is reported to have
passed word to US officials through an .
american journalist that he was in a ‘
position te head a provisional govern ooo + : .
ment after President Duvalier had been : rr
temoved from power. In subsequent years, particularly in 1966. j
and 1967, Charles approached US officials both in New York ay i .
and Port-au-Prince with the apparent intention of enlisting . - NG .
US support for a group of conspirators he claimed to lead. — {
which waa determined to topple Duvalier from power. None | not .
of these plots materialized, however, and there was never . .
any evidence to suggest that any serious plans had been made, : i :
"In January 1969 Charles had a lengthy conversation with ty -
‘' an offictal of the US Embassy in which the former candidls : . i }
{
:
{
t
|

. °° When President Duvalier was reported to be seriously
+, &21 dn mid-May 1969, Charles’ neme ‘was again mentioned in
Gennection with myriad rumors of imminent government take>
“v@R@. Ascording to a reliable source,’ a military junca
+; Wad formed to cake power in the event of the death of.
| Duvdstee, The junta purpertedly included Gen. Gérard -
Gonstant,.Cel. Octave Cayard, Col, Kugner Blain, Col, |
Roger St. Albin, and Col. René Prosper, Charles. wae said

7 GaBaQeReRe? a .
"| NO POREIGN DIssEM *. [liaded Ieee eotemeii|
GTA INTERNAL USB. ONLY : J

 
 

 

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM . arn en
‘ . CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY ; : ne, :

 

 

Clémard Joseph CHARLES {cont.)

 

to be aware of the identitics of these. men. Furthermore, : !
according to an official of the US Embassy, at one tine
it appeared that Charles had originated the idea of the ; pot. -
junta, hoping to utilize it eventually to launch his own i : ’
- candidacy for the. Presidency, Subsequently, however, t

Charles changed his statements about being “the next

President" to being "a future President," and he seemed . i
to be placing some distance between himself and the pro- — - :
posed junta. Fg . Oo i

oo

   
 
 
 
    
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
    
   

 

 

During Charles’ sforementioned conversation with an - . col oo t-
Embassy official’ in January 1969, he revealed other facets _ Cott at
of his personality as well as his penchant for plotting. . - a .
He conceives of his role in Haiti in grandiose, almost - so 7
messianic terms,’ He said that he had invested $2 million’ : i
fo: in Haiti and had donc more.for the development of tha ” : Po |
country than any other indigenous Haitian. He claimed, .
for example, that the workers in the Artibonite were .
passionate admirers of his because his tannery in Port ' :
Sondé (now closed) provided needed jobs, He also. claimed.
. gy the special allegiance of the chauffeur guides, the only
; ‘truly organized workers in the country, because when he
directed the compulsory Government Motor Vehicle Insurance
program, legitimate chauffeur claims were paid...He ime
. plied that such claima were no longer honored. . uo

 

       

i Discussing the internal problems of his country,
~ 7." Ghaples stressed the need for immediate steps to prevent
-' the total destruction of daiti's land and resources, to oe,

control the spiraling population growth, and to rejuvenate . © ,
the country's secondary cities, To achieve these goals. _
before current trends become irreversible, Charles believes
that it is essential to pursue relations. with the United ‘
States that would be conducive to massive asaiatance:and.. ~

“ dnvestment. In this raspect he insiste that Duvalier >

-hag been grossly unrealistic and has done Haiti great —

: damage by hia refusal.to recognize the role the United
States must play in Haitian affairs. 7 So

DReeab

   
   
    
 
   
   
   
   

5

    
 
 
     

  
 

my 1969 .-.

 
  

8-E-CeR-BeT -
WO FORETON DISBEM
GRA INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

 
