io aT . . _. _ . .

existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that must _

be given to a third party by efther the Agency or the Company will

be cone in strict conformance to the laws safeguarding national .
_ Security information, and only with full consultation between the
. Agency and the Company. - Bo oo cede

   

i:

 

 

(GOEL EL KEYS) >

 

 

 

 

~2-

- SEBRET
 

 

Prod-toto7-t00sg] Lo. _os wore rencgtneceppeaenecees

  

MOD = . a ( 9 | ne ( 3 . : OCC 26- S75
oe “ SEGRET lo-Av-t
& -3
e RETURN TO CIA arene
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce . 7 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Diviston
ATTENTION Mr. Rod Brooks .
FROM . : doal E. Keys, Chief

Corporate Cover Branch
Central Cover Staff

i ‘
SUBJECT : Request for Letter of Agreement

0? 4. Please prepare a Letter of Agreement between th &
) @apiue, which. through the President of the Firm, a
has agreed to place on retainer a Contract Agent of Europe Division,

ov GUPHONE/1. John J. Murray, Jr. represented the Agancy tn these

negotiations. Identities will be forwarded under separate cover.

. : ’ Or
2. Effective 1 October 1976, GabLuE WITT place on retainer (TOPHONE/1

at an annual retainer of2$9,000, which will be paid to him in monthly
increments of $750 b: LUE. The Company will overtly negotiate a
retainer contract with, QOPHONE, which will make eminently clear that
both are negotiating and ¢onciuding the contract as independent
parties; that the Company, LUE, will have no obligation to withhold
Federal, or state income taxes, or Social Security taxes.

% 3. In consideration of the support rendered, the Agency wilt
pay(i. ‘LUE $10,000 annually. Previston.is-‘made in “his amouirt to
offset any nominal expenses the firm incurs in its overt associations
or support op HONE/1. It also serves, in part, to minimize the
chances that auditing personnel wil] identify a wash transfer between
.the notional facility and payments to (TOPHONE/1.

z,

o .
- 4. The Agency will reimburse(| BBLUE in quarterly increments
via a contrived contractual arrangement betwee: PBLUE and a notional

facility of the Agency. Cancelled checks will serve as adequate
accountings for monies pai a(LABLUE.
: “Oz
5. Please include the usual paragraphs of appreciation, secrecy,
and prohibition of bona fide employment. -

6. All information relating to this agreement is classified
secret. Both the Asency and the Company agree that the most stringent
Safeguards will be taken to protect this information, including the

E-2 INPDET
CL BY 055087

 

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

oy
mt

T

“| | cen
