14-00000

” "he three Cubans: that WerBell reported arrested-are..Jose-Ricardo:Rabel Nunez
-(amleo-3),~Gilberto- Fondora-and -Miguel--Ramos.- These-men were--crew members..of
the JURE mother-vessel-Venus: From JMWAVE. reports it appears that AMLKO-3
was attempting to exfiltrate his family, using the Venus, when he was caught

. by Cuban security formes on 3 September 19;65.
Various memos show that MW reporting on Joe Marola.

602323

 
14-00000

Khe ed ba kee #

MW contacted "occasionally at headquarters" before his POA revoked. It was

_ revoked because "it was determined that he had no worthwhile information to

offer nor was he able to develop any. He was assessed by Headquarters as a
'twheller dealer' type with considerable intelligence byt unable to realize
much success in Promotion work and that his approaches to KUBARK were designed
primarily to obtain financial support." Dispatch UFGW-5572 dated 28 Sept 1965.
also sats tkat in May of 62 was in Managua as vice president of Commmicattions
International Ltd attempting to sell surplus arms. Was also attempting to sell
an "International Investigation Service". Attempts were unsuccessfllu.

In December of 64 was reported in Dominican Republic inassociation with
Finca/Frutas intercontinentales, Ca@Por A.

Cable from JMBARR xm (Wave Cite Barr 2232) dated 28 Sept 65:
AMSWIRL/1 said that WerBell was a crew member on Venus and worked with
"JURE Group".

DispatchUFGA-23126 dated 2;0 Sept 1965 reportst MW's connection with AMLEO/3
and his group.

AMLEO-3's sister contacting her uncle, Emilio Nunez Portuondo to help since
AMLEOS3 has been captured by GOC.

Cable to Mana from DIR (12828) dated 16/8/62 says “Relationship x@(with Mw)
terminated on friendly basis October 1959. BEKUBARK opinion HWerBell wished
use KUBARK funds to promote his personal interests. His intel not highly
regarded." Cabled released by J.C.King, Authenticated by William K. Harvey.

Cross reference to a doucument (Guat-02709?) thet sez MW back in Guatamala
and is presing GOG to make "United Organizations for Liberation of Cuba

the basis for Exile governement in Dec. 1962. Pressure being ahplied through
Ydigoras son.

Memo for file, Dated 18 February 1963 reports WerBell and arthur L. Smith

were attempting to Get Guatemala , Nicaragua, and El Salvador to recognize

a de facto Cuban government in exile caled "United Organization e@ffor the
Liberation of Cuba:" head of organization was Mario Garcia Kohly (provisional
president) WerBell reportedly offered $100,000 to Nic Govt. Also associated
with group were Frank M. Austin, Marshall R. Diggs, Manuel Fuego (aka Firestone)
and Col. John F. Kieffer.

Unless subsequently noted this is theonly document for 1963.

COC232E

 
(04087-10130)

 

 

 

 

*. DBO files on WerBell

hw Bw 444 if

  
 

Reported . by. Irving-Richard-Poyle;-(doetiment dated. in: Jamary 197+).
Anselmito Aliexgro.is-reportedly.working-for WerBell...Aliegro and.-one -
"Jerry Patrick" are reportedly carrying CIA identification and telling

‘Cubans in Miami that they and WerBell are CIA. Repordedly had a business

-on 8th Street and sold gm guns.

letter from Hiwin Marger re: clarification of WerBell's 201 request, dated

30 Dec 1975 sa‘s that MW was in "Cuba tat the time of the Castro Military
Operation", Dominican Rupublic during military operation, Thailand and‘
Vietnam.

FOIA reguest routing lsip, dated 17 April, 1975 says that WerBells POA

was granted so as to use him as a source mice on revolutionary matters in

“the Carribbean area, specifically Cuba and the Dominican Republic.”

POA granted 4 august 1959. POA was cancelled in Oct 1959 seem at

the request of WHD "as use of the Subject was no longer contemplated -'90 02349

Dispatch from Chief of JMWAVE to Chief of WH dated 13 Jun 1966:

“according to his file WerBell appears to be a low level, would=be con man
who has a history of being involved in Castro assassination schemes and of
provessing to be connected, or at least in contact with KUBARK. According
to AMRAZZ/1, Sijooctwkgemke ‘livingtson' was involved with Antonio Veciana's
alleged assassination ploy and he was masquerading as a KUBARK officer....
2. “"Livingston' has as yet failed to call on AMRZAZ/1 as he had promised
Cogswell in New York City." signed by Philip G. Elmard.

Dispatch no dayte ,j by Elmard:

James Cogswell imis a NY attorney iommiwed mentioned in connection with .
raising funds for Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

b. Antonio Veciana Blanch (201-312966) ~ Born 18 October 1928 in Havana.
He is a public accountané by profession. He.is titular head of Alpha 66
and a member of MRP and SFNE. He lives in Puerto Rico. He has a cryptonym
and is of marginal operational interest to JMWAVE CI Branch as a source of
information obtained by AMKnob/1 for the CUIS." date is probably around
same time as preivious as has same subject heading and concerns same

people oferation, etc. ’

Contact report dated 25 April 1966:

"Cogswell told (am)Razz that he was expecting antonio Veciana at that moment.
Veciana, Cogswell saidn, was in a plan to assassinated Figel Castro. Details
of the plan were lacking. Beciana wanted Cogswell to introduce him to a man
known andly as FNU Livingston, form 'Wintson, Massachusetts.' Cagswell's
sister, mane unknown, who works in Washington, DC=presented livingston to
Cogswell about a month ago. Beciana showed up while Cogsell and Razz were
talking. Veciana surprise at seenig Razz was astounding. In private, Veciana
--.-Cogsewll told Razz that on Sunday night, 17 April, he had introduced
Veciana to Livingston. The latter two had spoken in private after which
veciana came away very pleased byt did not disclose anything except that he had
a plen to assassinate Castro." |

Cogsweal “will be remembered as being invilved in fund raising for the 'Prince-
Pelaez' plot to kill Castro."

MW requested CIA permission for an attempt of Fidel in January , 1966.
The permission was requeseted in December 1965.

MW reported he was taking a group of about 6 Cubans in to get Fidel and
Raul at a big rally in Havana.'

MW also discused plan with one Richard Phillips, Public Affairs Officer,
Department of State. His boat mh RTE .with morters.

t
COLONEL

 
14-00000

 

Wawa
Guat au dated 1. sept 1962: - BUCa Re

Mayor of Niemi Robert King akso. involved in trying to unite cuban exiles >» Was

meeting «with. Yaigoras: and ‘was backing group cated 1 Consejo Reolucionario > Cgbane

saly- 4225. dated “alte aug- "19622. ares

Tony Verona visits President Rivera on 2lst. Reports Kohly has been a rival
of Miro Cardona and Varona elemants. Admits Kohly Anti-Castro but % says he
is probably trying to sabotage Varona's efforts or "gain ascendancy".

Guat 2426 dated Aug 22, 62 reports WerBells arrival and that he is accompanied
by on Lucy Luchien.

Wave 7169 dated 17 Aug 1962 says:

"files relfete Mario Garcia Kohly previous maneuvers over long period to
obtain financial support from Kubark and Odoath, Overtures turned doma
basis unfounded claims. Detailed investigation fisde by Mr. Robert Andrews.
ci

nen
DIR 38¥30637 dated 17 August 1962:
"Garcia Kohly, WerBell, and Smith are well known Kubark Hes and considered to
be wheelers and dealers, peddlers of grandiose schemes, and unscrupulous.
Garcia Kohly is well aware of Odyoke opposition to Cuban Govt in exile as
result his persistent tho unsuccessful efforts sell self and Govt in exile
concept to Odyoke and private Pbprime businessmen past two years."

Gua t 2423 dated x21 aug 1962:
reports xWerBell involved in an earlier effort to sell arms and provide
anti-commie mercenaries to Guat.

16 aug 62, Mana 4029 reports tha t group planning invasion for mid-august.
Organization in Cuba called Junta Civica Militiar Cristiano(JCMC) and the
exile chief is one Colonel Jose Pinexiro Pagz. Thsi cable reports that
Nic wants to sign the protocal. (they eventtally of course don't)

Guat 2412 dated 15 Aug 62:

Smith tshas cards showing him as Vice President of Faraday Techinical Corp.,
228A SW 2nd Ave., Miami. Reports that on K J.A. BaKane aond Josi Euleterio
Pedraza Cabrega . WerBell and Kane were in Guat in May 62 offering to sell
small arms and mercenaries.

DIR 29811 dated 14 aug 62 reports tht MW travelled to Dominican Republic in
1959 and became involved with Anti Castro plotters. Smith, as of June 60

was a member of Jones and Handy Marine Architect Firm, Miami. Smith travelled
to Cuba several times between Jamuary 1959 and March 1960. Firm waas working on
a steel mill in Oriente province. One "Piner

"Pineiro" is allegedly involved in plot. HQ can't ID an exile with that name
who may be travelling to Guat. Reports that “Major Manuel Pineiro Losada is
Assistant Chief Cuban G-2 wnd well nown member Castro's entomrage" but unlikey
that this is the one invojved because the difficulties he would have in
traveling to Guat.

Wave 6830 dated Aug 11, 62 reports thta MW ixx was involved in Plan to ship
arms to Ecuador "for attempted overthrow there by CP." this according to one
Patrick J. Karnley, At time COS in San Jaun.

. eae . e
Guat 2406 reports that MW and Simth aré in Guat awed tong re ae of one
"colonel Piniero, aka Commandant: RAR pEpoa- ate
14-00000

 

COE2222
Mana 3949 dateed 21 May 1962 says that MW and Manual Firesotne trying to sell
_ Mato Surpluss weapons.

 

 

 

IMemo for Record dated 13 October 1959: MW called him on 9/25
to k report a big meeting of “heavy financiers of the opposition to Castro"
to be held in DC during week of 9/28. involved: Jorge Bethart and FNU Sanchez
Nunez. MW asks that CIA underarite his attendance of meeting.
recomments to C/WH/III that "we either terminate Subject or put Work"
termintated for following reasons:
"a. his motivation is obviously to use the Agency as amg source of financing
for his personal business schemes.
b. AS an American his access to full information on Cuban revolutioanary
activities will alsways be limited. This is borne out by the fact that his
information, while indicating some access, has been incomplete and obviously
second or third hand."

n talked to MW on 10/2:
"IT told Subject that after due consideration of the risks to him, the const
in time and effort to him, and the risks and expenses involved for the Agency,
balanced against assets generaily available throughout the intelligence commnity
and his access to additional information, it had been decided not to give him
any operational tasks at this time,. I suggested that since the bulk of the
matters which come to his attention in connection with the Cuban matter take
place in the united States, he should report such information to the FBI. Subject
appeared to understand that we would not use him and expressed his regret. The
conversation ended on a friendly note.”

 

 

memo for the record dated 23 Sept 1959: Werbell reports that "Joe

““WSPOLS and a number of others have been discussing the counterfeiting of United
States dollars and Cuban pesos for use in connection with Cuban revohutionar
activities." F suggests he tell FBI and MW says he will. MW reported back
that FBI referred him to SS. Tkaeex

 

 

 

 

 

memo for record dated 5 Aug 59:

“Althoguh xhe has been evasive and obviously not completely frank with us,

it appears tha WerBell does have access to information of interest on Cuban

and Dominican Revolutionary activities aimed w& against the Castro Government, #
and that he is well conencted with the underworld elements operating in the
‘Miami area."

Memo also notes that ¥Flores has learned of POA.

 

 

 

 

memo for hte Record dated 5 August 1959:

Report from AMBOAR that William Morgan is involved in a plot to assassinate
Castro. (Subject is telephone conversations with "Reichhardt".) also has
this paragraph: “ReichHardt said tha t he was out of touch also with Nunez
Portuondo. He said he had tried to phone Nunez on a number of occasions
but the phone was not answered. Discreet inquires in Mimai also indicated
that Nunez' location is unknown at this time. Reichahrdt said he is still
holding the letter from Col. King to Nunez."

 

Documents also indicate that WerBell was providing information on A "General
Pedraza who was in the Dominican Republic in 1959 trying to organize anti-
Castro activities. Involved with Pedraza was Rolondo Masferrer.

MW was reporting that Masferrer was one of Pedraza's contacts in the US.

Undated memo for xhenctttesxfeemwWi/C/OPS: on "call from Mr. Dick Phillips
(State) regarding the arrest of jAMLEO-3. :

 
