74-0000

4

4. [ _ operations: | We will continue to press

the who are sssisting us in the effort

 

 

 

 

| 4 and through the development of additional legal travellers,
a
agningt Cuba for additional coverage, including the
recruiting of egents within their own rrens for joint
i diapetch to Cuba. The moat effectively co~

operating at this point in this connection are the

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Direct
approaches to several of these either by you

 

 

personally or in your name, es you prefer, ere
being separately recommended. Personal representation

| by you to the hnderlined ebove would be useful.
In addition, we will re-survey a11 other | b

 

 

 

. with which we are in contact and reiterate to those
| appearing to have any assets usable against Cuba our

extreae interest in maximum coverage of this problem.

 

| In connection with the | Pproblem generally, we wilt

 

 

 

 

| endeavor to induce «11 of the to make
greater use of their[ sj assets, both inside and

| outside cf Cuba. Particular attention will be given to

| possible utilizetion of the[

ol Be Maritime Operations: In addition to increasing

\ efforts to get at serman agents end other uaritime

 

 

aasets through | we will continue our

 

unilateral third country efforts to recruit seamen anc

<i
74-0000

= -
| . . rerticularly Cuban seamen, to increare the twenty

officers and crew members shoard six Cubsrn vessels we sre

6. Penetration of Cuban Installations Abropd: At

. ' now rupning es controlled agents.
| the present time we are running 12 Cubrn diplomats

etationed outside Cube rs controlled agents end have vinhle

kaa:
1

"operations aimed at an additional 20 Cuban diplomats.

We propose to continue end intensify the current progren

of attempting to recruit or defect every Cuben officin!

represeutstive abroad to wham we can gein access end
concerning whom we have any reason to believe se
susceptibility to approach exists. These additionel

| penetrations will be sttempted both throngh> |.

operations end where eppropriate in conjunction with

 

L-/

 

L TE

7. Audio Penetrations of Cuban Instrellations

Bt

Abroad: At the present time we have sudio and/or
telephone tap coverage of Cuban officiel installations

in| _ iz

| Xo

 

 

 

 

 

mejor expansion of this coverage is presently
contemplated, but we will continue to survey rdditicn:t
targets of opportunity and wherever pessible instell
coverage in those cases where the additional intelli-
“gence trom this type of source over and above whet we

are now receiving would appeer to make such installrtion

worthwhile,

 

 
74-0000

 

with the contingency plonning for supporting any Porsible
mplitary action. in Cuba, the Opa-Locks: Interrogation .
: ; Center as such was dismantled, ‘although. the personnel
of the ‘Center heave been retained intact. In order ta
7 re-establish the flew of intelligence from refugees,
tt as proposed . that, Pin American’ Airwaye and KLM be
~~" dnduesat to ‘veinstitute thetr regular flights trom
7 Havana to Miami. This should be done as soon ag

   

a possible after the settlement of. the current negotintions
and UN discussions.» Coincident with this, _the Opa~-Locka
"refuges interrogation center will be ré-esteblished
“with the game personnel.
. : 2. Resident Agents in Cuba: Every effort: will be
made, to continue to exploit to the fullest, preserve the
: viability of. and, where necessary, re-establish commun tca-
an ot tions. with the 131. recruited agents now: resident in Cuba.
oe om "Ge en extent, the: speed and: effectiveness of this effort
. "will of course depend upon the stringency of future
. Cuban security end control action, which it is impossible
. as yet to accurately forecast.
-3, Third Country Operations: The priority on re-
eruiting agente in third countries for digpatch to Cubs
will he reiterated and strengthened and every effort

 
   

21. be nade to dncrease this coverage, both. ‘through

‘the. <dsvelopment of additional resident agents in Cuba

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

E. Teke max Loum action to induce a aplit in the Cuban

: regine ond maintain the capability of capitalizing. iumediately

through clandestine means te the extent possible on any

: significent uprising, revolt, resistance, | split in the. regina,

“or strains rnd stresses emong Cuben leaderehip or io Cubsn/

Bloc relationships,
ni OPERATIC PLAN: |

  

" -Bapionage and Iutelitgence Collection - All fereible

‘effort “anoulé: be undertoken to continue and intensify intelit-

gence: collection concerning Cuba. The status of our intelli-

gence’ collection,and related operational activity at the

: present time and ite development during the past @ix months
4g delinested in detail in Attachment 4, which was preprred tc
serve as the basis for the iGts report on this particular

/ matter ‘to the President's Board of Consultants on Foreign

Intelligence. “You will note that this lengthy document ‘
bresks down under numerous sub-headings the intelligence .
coverage which has been developed. by the Clandestine Service.
Set out below sro specifica of operational action it is
proposed to take to continue ond, aS possible, incresse {n-
telligence coverage of Guba.
i. Intelligence Exploitation « of Refugees: As you
know, with the quarantine and the cessation of sir

._ stravel the ‘heavy’ flow of Cuban refugees has dwindled

 
  
 

“almost. to nothing. In view of this and in connection

‘
 
 

 

I. In view of the above _nesuapt ions prramilitary, commande
and sabdtaze.o ‘operations, except in ‘rare selective instences |
wihl serve Little purpose; also they WALL be counter-procuct ive
since, it -underteken, they will make the collection of intelli-
gence more difgicult and should only be undertrken in those very
' few instances. where an unusually “high return can be demonstrrted,
Regardless of what other pressures are placed on CIA for -
action against Cuba, it would rppesr clear that Higher Authority
wild insist On B continued, even intensified, intelligence

coverage of Cuba.

 

Sot, view of ‘the policy fectors, an iocreased use of

: fachitties, Feal estate and basing outside the United Btates,
7 particularly in! Latin Anerice, will be both necessary end
desirable,

Ke Adequate serial reconnaissance of Cuba will continue.

1 OBJECTIVES: .
“Based on the above sesumptions, the following objectives
‘appear to be proper for continuing CIA operations against
Cuba:
A Take all feasible clandestine action to isolate
and assist in isolating the Castro-communist regime in Cuba
from. the rest of the Western Hemisphere and the rest of the
‘ Free World. .
“B Fo. the maximum extent. t possible, discrevit the Castro- .
communist reg ine tn Cuba and in the Western Hemisphere . and the
rest of the world.

~4~
a,

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

. c. Maintes in through clandestine means, ‘short of commaido —
and guerrilla type. operations, ‘the ‘maximum economic and °
political pressures on the Cuban regine and economy not only
fer the purpose of hampering’ the Cuban regine, but for. the

a additional ‘purpose ‘of Anguring the maxima ‘possible drain on

 

oe Bloc. resources used to, , Support, Cubs.

   

od De Maintain ‘maxim ‘possible nteliigence and counter-
“inteltigence coverage of ‘Cube, ‘tneluding particular ‘emphasis -

on “Capabiiities and. intentions of the. governuent.

: , * Activities of the Cuban 6-2 and its other

~ security organs.
'3. ‘Soviet and Bloc activities in Cuba.

 

dhe : State of potential. resistance, including the
] ane temper of: ‘the ‘populace.: ;

 

 waritie and military order of battle and equip-
ment. Do,
6. The leci of power and of possible stresses
‘and strains in the power centers in the Cubsn goverunent.
7, Relationships between Cubs, USSR, Red Chine,
the Bloc, Latin American nations and other "ie Wor ld
‘end uncommitted nations.
8.. The level of and the + weaknesses in, the Cuban

economy.

  

-b- .,

 
[am BECRET ~ mors)

27 Novenber 1962

antares,

 

Note: Discussed #7 Ncvesher
. 1862 by DD/T with PCr
end approved generei!:
in principle by CCI,
Pully concurred (tn

; by BD/P.
: on lanoRASIDOM FOR: Director of Centred Intelligence
"THROUGH: “Deputy Director (Plens)
SUBJECT: Operstionad Plen ‘tor Cont nu tng

Operet tons Ageinst Cube

4 Actions This wemorandua is for. your information
- and pursuant to your request. ‘Recommendations for action ere
" conteined ia Perograph V below. The purpose of this memorcurus

ig to delineate an operational plan for the action which we.

' believe should be taken by CIA against Cubs for the precictabls

‘eee See

future, In summary the plan provides for ecatinuing, even
- intensifying, the intelligence effort sgeinet Cuba and for
the reorientation of the current effort into » long tera

denied area type of operation of the ‘highest priority.

I, ASSUMPTIONS:
A. The United States Government will give public
, assurances that, provided no nuclesr or offeusive weapons fre ,
oe, present or re-introduced into Cuba, end provided Cubs dees
Fee Bot teke action to threaten’ the pence: ond security: of the -

Western He'aisphere, the United States does not infend t pean:
Loup Is

invade Cuba or support ‘aR Invasion of. Cuba. A scuncs

   

   
 

[og 10403-10079 -

L soe 1 .

ve '

SECRET - SENSITIVE
Draft Memorandum to the DCI from William Harvey

Dated 27 November 1962

 

This is not a controlled item
 

 

B, These assurances will preclude any ‘meaningful CIA
i action ‘on a phased basis ‘to provoke a revolt inside Cube, since
unless ‘there are major changes in operational and internal con-

‘ ditions: in Cuba, ‘such a- revolt if provoked would be totally

  

deatroyed: by Cuban counteraction | in a matter of hours ore ot

es | a practical matter will, preclude dnvading Cuba on’ the pretext

: ot a contrived provocation such 28 an attack on Guantanamo.

 

2 CIA, operations: involving a. high noise Yevel and a

    

‘ enient, of. “‘attributebflity, particularly paramilitery,

© querriitg, ond commando type operations will be unacceptable
aga matter of. ‘policy.

, .D. The Castro-communist regime will remain in power for
the indefinite. future with its security and control apparatus
. relatively intact and with the capability not only of crushing

“ unsupported resistance activity, © ‘but of ‘making operational

: conditions in Cuba increasingly difficult. While it is

possible that recent and future developments including the

Soviet action in removing the offensive weepons: from Cube mey

. serve to weaken and discredit Castro, there is as yet no hard

indication that the: control of the Castro-comnunist regine over
Cuba has been substantially weekenod,

The | United States ‘assurances of. no invasion ‘and no

os
‘ee Be

  

"support ofvan invasion will, in effect, constitute giving to

Castro and his regime a certain degree of senctuary, This will

 
 

 

 

a) ®
i e a no ‘A
: ae . os, “4
’

severely dane ge the aorale and motivation of anti-regine Cubens

both Anmide end outside of Cube,” which’ will make: at ‘inerensingly

a difficult for us to. recruit agents, ‘maintain agents already

recruited, and. continue or intensify our intelligence and other

efforts against Cuba and the Castro-commnist regime.
on

  
  

Despite. ‘the “above . factors,: Higher Authority. probebly
WALL gontinue ‘heavy pressure. on the or “8 maximus effort
against, cuba, ‘end may, even continue to contend thet the ultimate.

       

       

   

objective te the overthrow of the Castro-communist regime,

This. 48. an unrealistic objective, however, except. on a yery

long-tera, bas " the: Uaited: States Governsent, we ‘believe,

 

, will be unwiLling in the. imuedinte future. to commit: troops

to ‘Support such, an overthrow. The. United States Government
fa Ats overt dealings with the Cupen, exiles probably will not |

   

“gbove. factors to then, an the context or with the
: ‘pluntness: stated ‘here.
a. In view of these factors, the so-called “Ipack Tro",

. course of action, 1.@., unlimited support of Cuban exiles
and exile. Kroups with Ro real control” or objective purposes

' in ‘the hope that these groups will be sble to ghake the

Castro regime wil, although unrealistic, become incressingly

Sttractive at various ‘levels in the United States Government.

A. 4s & “matter of policy, political pressures ond —

   
 

_ economic pressures short. of blockade , Raids, | and ‘aggressive

 

“sabotage against Cuba will ‘be. continued.

 
