74-0000

  

 

 

 

 

 

ER CANA a ANE EEE eRe ER oa

that the membership of the staff would remain stable until the con-
clusion of the investigation a year from now. He indicated that he
would be here until a year from'now when he returns to Cornell, where
he has tenure as a Professor of Criminal Law. .

§. Looking to the time that he begins to pick the issues on
which he must write I expressed the hope that we would have as much
lead time as possible... Only one or two Agency persons would be re-.
viewing the draft report, and if we had to do so on a crash basis--
an experience faced in the past--it would be very difficult for us
to do a proper job. He recognized the problem but made no firm’
commitments although he indicated his willingness to cooperate. He
said that he plans to proceed on schedule and thinks that the report

will be written, reviewed and published by the end of 1978.

Se TS RL. BN

'$. D. Breckinridge

“66; OLC/Mr/ Cummins

 
 

oetiae03f7] ~s Uses oleh _ WUEFRSSIY

 

yo yuu jf denn
22-009 y
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD — — 2

i

r

- ‘13 December 1977 You.
| SUBJECT: Meeting with Mr. Blakey

1. Mr. Leader and I-met with Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cummins for
about an hour this afternoon. on fo

2. I told Mr. Blakey that I had spoken to the IG and he in-
formed me that we are authorized to give Mr. Cornwall access to the
unsanitized version of the comments on the Schweiker Report, subject
to his signing the same agreement signed by Mr. Blakey.’ ~-

3. I took the occasion. to emphasize again our uneasiness with
some of the information exposed in the report. I reiterated some
of the detail about persons in Cuba, as well as technical operations.

Reference was made once more to the effect on various foreign( Tiaison)
(services: if details of relationships with the Mexicans) were to be

revealed. I expressed the opinian that the basic story could be told,
F where it was judged appropriate to discuss a given subject, without
revealing sensitive sources and methods. I said that our work with the —
Church Conmittee had been generally successful in this respect, and
that language could usually be worked out that would convey the story
while stil] protecting sources and techniques. .

 

4. Mr. Blakey indicated that at this point he felt that a number
of issues in our paper would prove irrelevant to his investigation.
I told him that I was of the opinion that a number of them are irrele-
vant to the issue, but that we were addressing the Schweiker Report
rather than the broader issue. He indicated that he was specifically
interested in the airplane flight that had been treated in the Schweiker
Report, but that depending on how his investigation developed it might
become irrelevant as well. ‘For instance, if he concluded that right-wing
Cubans and criminal elements were responsible for the assassination a
flight to Cuba ceased to have meaning. However, if there was occasion
to comment on that particular flight they would like to review the basis
for our treatment of the subject. oe :

5. I expressed the hope that Mr. Cornwall would not need a number
of people to do the work for him, as we wished very much to hold down -
the number of persons familiar with some of the operational detail. He
stated that he too wished to hold down the number... I expressed the hope

   
