14-00000

 

2

than OSWALD. Mexico Station bas, to date, found no pictures of
OSWALD entering the Soviet or Cuban Enbassy.

3. The search aia reveal more data from technical operations,
however. This information, which comes in in great masses, had not
been previously associated with OSWALD because his name is. not
actually mentioned in it, but the subject matter shows it is about
him, and our expert monitor says the voice is identical with the :
voice of 1 October known to be OSWALD's.

hk. This further technical information covers a round-robin of

 

telephone calls and visits which OSWALD made to the Soviet and Cuban
Embassies in Mexico City between 27 September and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obtained by the U. S. Consulate in the border town of Nuevo Laredo from

. ° Mexican Inmigration Service records.

: 5. In brief, all this information shows that Lee Harvey. oswALD
entered Mexico (apparently by car) at Nuevo Laredo on 26 Septenber
1963 > Claiming he was a photographer, living in New Orleans and bound
for Mexico City. On 27 September he was in Mexico City phoning the
Soviet Bubassy to ask for a visa so he could go to Odessa, USSR. On
28 Septenber, he was at the Cuban Embassy, and Silvia DURAN, a Mexican
Employee of the Cuban Exbassy, telephoned the Soviet Eubassy about his

problem. It seems that OSWALD (whose name is not mentioned) wanted a

Cuban transit visa so he could go to Cuba and wait there for a Soviet 3

 
 

104-10079-10207

 

1. Our first information on OSWALD came from a technical

operation in Mexico City and was cabled in on 9 October 1963. It

revealed that on 1 October 1963 Lee OSWALD had been in touch there
with Soviet Consul Valery KOSTIKOV about a telegram which the
' Soviet Embassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Enbassy in

 

Washington. The data showed that OSWALD had also been at the Soviet
Embassy on 28 September. Traces showed OSWALD was a former U. S.
defector to the USSR and on 10 October CIA Headquarters notified the
' FBI, State and the Navy (OSWALD had been a Marine). Our Mexico Station
was told to pass its information on OSWALD to the Mexico City offices

of the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Embassy.

and cabled us about it, began researching all its files and records for

"reports which might relate to him. It turned up pictures of a man

i ‘o Since our Agency is not supposed to investigate U. s. eitizens abroad
cory os .

, ~ = Without special request, we did nothing further on the case.
a.

; = 2. After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November,

3 ! Mexico Station, which immediately recalled its earlier report on OSWALD

?

i

- believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuban Embassies on
various days in October, including 1 October, but when some of these

pictures were sent to the FBI in Dallas they proved to be someone other

for FOIA Review on

       

   

     
 

CLASSIFICATIQN Paview Te hAG y ary
CONDUCTED See 97 . RECORD £ y 2b Nov 63
E_imebey cr eyo) eLoe 2Do\- 259 Ug

    

FF | 2202
14-00000

 

visa which would permit him and his wife to go on to the Soviet
Union. Silvie DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant

him the visa. A while later a Soviet official calls Silvia DURAN

back and explains that the visa applicant had been dealing with

' the Soviet Consulate in Washington about the same matter and that

they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet visa.
The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing
he belonged to an organization in favor of Cuba. Silvia DURAN and

' the Soviet official agree to table the matter.

6. On 28 September 1963, OSWALD again visits the Cuban Enbassy
end talks to Silvia DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the
Soviet Enbassy. OSWALD aso talks +o a Soviet official on her phone .
and says the will came to the Soviet Embassy and give him what te
apparently a forwarding address where he can be reached. ‘There is

" gome hint this address may be in Cuba.

7 On 1 October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet
Consul KOSTIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones
the Soviet Military Attache about the same matter. The Military Attache |
gives him the number of the Consul. Finally, on 3 October, OSWALD
phoned the Military Attache again and tried to talk about a visa, but
the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give hin”
the right phone number. .

8. ‘Theat same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back into the

United States at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo, Texas crossing point. He

 

 
14-00000

whe

had travelled on a Mexican Tourist Card in lieu of passport.

9. Cn 23 Novenber 1963, Mexican authorities ,< who get the same

(technical information which we do and who had noticed the name of

nal

Lee OSWALD in it, arrested Silvia DURAN and her husband and interrogated

 

 

 

them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee
OSWALD had professed to be a Commmnist and an admirer of Castro. She
and her husband are being held incommmicado and their arrest will
not be made known, for the time being. .
10. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico
‘and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV,
since the assassination of President Kennedy, by both technical and
physical surveillance, shows nothing unusual.
ll. Mexican President Lopez Mateos is aware of this case(ang’
er NN ors

an Oe iin NN
or the technical information involved a.) He will doubtless support any

pL LE

' further police action which is necessary.

 
