 

overseas. BAST, described as “"Unscrupulous and untrust-
worthy", is known to have attempted to contract with another
private detective for planting a remote-controlled bomb in the
headquarters of the Haiti Secret Police, and has been reported
to have undertaken similar extreme assignments for exile
groups from Haiti and the Dominican Republic, (Based on i
derogatory information on file, DCS, in March 1967, decided a
against previously contemplated contact with BAST as a
source of information on Asia, )

 

BAST, REDEX, and William W, TURNER of RAMPARTS

 

CA Staff has provided information that.during January 1967,
William W, TURNER, who identified himself as a free-lance
writer, visited the offices of.the Asia Foundation, requesting
information for a magazine article. He stated that he had

’ been asked by Sol Stern of New York to gather information for

an article in the New York Times. During his visit, however,
it became obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions
about the financing of the foundation, rather than its actual
purpose or activities, When TURNER concluded the interview
he left a calling card with the firm name "REDEX-PACIFIC",
He explained he had to have new cards printed, TURNER,
reportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is noted to have
authored an article in the November 1966 issue of RAMPARTS
Magazine in which he describes alleged wiretapping, sur-
reptitious entry, etc., performed by him while with the FBI,
Sol Stern, whom he claimed to represent, is assistant
managing editor of RAMPARTS Magazine.

Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exile

(The foregoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVEL
with FURR, FURR's connection with BAST, and a possible
connection between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS,
The following indicates the only CIA involvement in the chain
which might be exploited in subsequent attempts to link CIA
to the entire affair in question, )

On 29 April 1963, Robert E. Owen, then Chief, WE/3 and
now o directed a memorandum to the Chief,

lo mig

 

 

-cunET EVES ONLY

2

 
  

04-10106-10896

 

  

 

A.

B.

SePREY evre AR Y:
. tee | EYES ONLY
NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charge GIA

Background Use Only

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in Po.Not Reproduce
Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27

March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the
case under investigation by Garrison. According to the press
reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination

conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR, In statements

to the press, FURR indicated there was no indication of

deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a

"fraud",

   

 

Lloyd FURR's Relationship to Richard L, BAST and REDEX,

 

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Columbia policeman and now
a private detective, is a self-proclaimed polygraph "expert"
and sound device specialist. He has received publicity in the
past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr,
in the St. Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he
discovered listening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine,
In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D. C.
firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was
attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with
FURR in 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by FURR.)

C. Richard L, BAST and REDEX,

 

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained
noteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously
unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the
Bobby Baker case. He is known to operate at least four
enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a
private detective agency; 2) REDEX VIETNAM, INC,, a firm
which imports a variety of commodities ranging from liquor to
automobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S, -recruited
"go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is planning; 3) REDEX
CORP., a firm which sells almost anything to anybody abroad,
other than South Vietnam; and 4) CONSOLIDATED ARMAMENTS,
INC., a firm which sells small arms to foreign governments and
private individuals abroad, BAST also produces and distributes
both positive audio and counteraudio devices in the U.S, and

EYES ON
SEERET

 

 
  
 
74-0000

 

     

+
f ope .

vRT EVES QNLY

WH/6 in which he documented a conversation he had on

27 April 1963, with Raymond CASSAGNOL, an anti-Duvalier

exile from Haiti, In the mernorandum he relates that the

conversation took place in the home of Richard L, BAST

whom Owen had met through a neighbor, Lloyd FURR.

The memorandum relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,
political stance, etc, Reported as significant by Owen is a
statement by BAST that the following week BAST would be
sending a shipload of arms to a CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
in the Dominican Republic, Owen noted: "Raymond
CASSAGNOL gives appearance of thinking well of Richard
BAST, According to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,

also knows BAST and respects him, Thus BAST, in spite of
certain personal shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,
does represent an established channel to at least one segment
of the Haitian opposition to Duvalier, Since according to his
own statement, BAST is supplying arms to CASSAGNOL's
groups, further transactions of this type via BAST pre sumably
would not be difficult to arrange, '' He also provided a detailed
information on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had
mentioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that
"CIA double-crossed them" (the Dominicans),

An FBI report on BAST dated 19 June 1963 _reports that Owen,

"Foreign Service Reserve Officer, usps [yrs
“reported 16 May 1963 his attendance at dinner at BAST's home

on 27 April 1963, Owen told of his meeting with CASSAGNOL,
BAST's intention to sell arms to the Dominican Republic and
Haitian exiles, ete, He also reports that on 7 May 1963, BAST
asked him to perform some translation work, The translation,
he stated, related to BAST giving a power of attorney to one
Luis MORENO Martinez of the Dominican Republic to prepare
documentation for legal establishment of REDEX CORPORATION,
C POR A, a DR branch of BAST's firm, According to Owen,
40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National
Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and an
individual well-connected with Dominican Republic police and
intelligence groups, BAST is also noted to have told Owen

of an offer BAST had made to "bug" the office of the Dominican

 
 

 

Secretary uf State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan
Bosch, PAST did not indicate to Owen if,had performed
the job,

(There is no record of a clearance having been issued for
utilization of Richard L, BAST or REDEX, )

 
