 

 

.)

 

es la“

er)

Page 2 of 2 Pages

 §-E-C-B-E-T. KO FOREIGN DISSEY

8. BMelo's letter acknowledged receipt of a cable from
Badrigal; it then wont on to state that “Rogelio obtained
the visa" and sow. "the Haitian can come whea he wishes.“
(Pield Comment: Bogelio may be Regelio Pinto. BRd14099 Ye
quoted Holo ag saying that Starke bad obtained a viga for
Jacques Horinglane, © Haitian who would bo the first of
the Eaaferrer group to arrive in Costa Bica.) Hslo then wrote
that because nothing had been heard from Madrigal since the
latter's visit to Costa Bica “the frieads kere” had begun to
believe that “overything hag been a pips dream of mine; that
we meither are going to do anything nor havo anything.” Belo
complained that Hadrigal's cilonce appsared to have “lossonod
the onthusiasm of this man of action and of rapid recolutions,
who does not like to be made to waste his tise.” Holo warned
Madrigal that if the Hasferrer greup had not reached a deci-
sion to move abead with the plan, it would be better for tho
Eaitian not to come to Costa Biea. Helo algo warned that if
there vore no Cubano participating in Basferrer's project, he,
Melo, would mot cupport it, since he vas interested only in
tho Cubana’ problems and not thoce of tho Haitians, Melo in-
formed Hadrigal that he expected to arrive in Hew York on 18
Pobruary; he suggested that they discuas the subject in detail
at that tine.

4. On 4.Barch Belo again left Gan Joss for Hiemi. Hoe
told the Costa Bican security officials that he would be avay
from Coste Bica for a sonath. -

5. Wield Diseen: State Aray CISCSO

° sy w \ of
to rr A en pip cues
an Cy -

ay a i ‘
ke ande im we Ts ! '
i ‘ yet 4
\n valved ey j jot! an fa ) -
the Oye veel uo I: ;
Pa | a
Vicve Lica Ln (ray Vi
be i \ 4 7
ue wee , hoe fey
sot ’ ~ yo 4 a4
° /
cee ‘ . ~ ‘ Bay “renege.
‘ ioe,

 

      

AR ha SE AEE Sa

a

 

 
   
   

 

4 : PAGE 1OF 2 PAGES

  

  

 

 
   
 

 

   

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

     

gore sane Col HUE MALE EWA QHAT RET COS eY ee
REPORT NO.
pate ostR. 7 March 1968 x ‘
country Costa Rica ; 5
: ca :
9 February - 4 March 196 ‘ =
pol - ruary e688 ' K aqe tes fet i
SUBJECT Lohtors Weitten by Fernando Melo," *! "ee *
_ Indicating That Negotiations ; 3 a
c i Mudwig Starke and Rolando. |
lasierrer Were Not Progressing . “ Poy de 5
well, ye Tew Statice 27 ho ‘ _ 8 i
Costa Rica, San Jose os Fa) Tinp ot 4
“ca (4 March 1968) seiowo  (yr§}si08 J ;
SOURCE 22 , q
=
: 3
& 1. QPield Comont: Tho following “Faport should be read i
in conjunction with. B-314/0 1096-68 Gmal4oes) and :
z22(gnat4009), which reported that Pernando q
Helo Fontanills, a Cuban oxzile in Costa Bica, tao serving as 2
. _ Bh intermediary in negotiations between Ladwig Starke Jimenez, &
- a Costa Bican right-wing oxtreaiot, and Bolando Kaaierrer, a é
Cuban exile in tho United States who waa involved in plotting H
against the government of Preaidont Bono Duvalicr of Haiti. : 7
The negotiations dealt with a plon wasreby Starke vould pro~ EA
vids @ staging areca for an invasion of Haiti by Haitian acd 3
Cuban exiles under Basferrer’s leadership. In returo Bas-~
ferrer, if successful, would gubssquenatly- support a move by z
Btarke against the Costa Bican Government. Belo vas roported
to be planning a trip to Hew York on 21 February 1968 to talk z
with Haaferrer and the latter's representative in the negotia- ;
tions, Father Diego Hadrigal Aivarez.) ~ 4
'  @. When Helo returned to San Jose on 2 Barch after 5
<7 visiting New York City and Hicmi, Florida, he wag detained 3
i ‘ and soarched by security officials ot the airport. Among ¥
# g ake Belo’a possesaions the security officials found 6 lottor, A
signed by Helo, addreased to Pather Diego Hadrigal, Bew York. BH
fne letter was dated 9 February 1968.: It waa typeuritten on ‘a
erhead stationery of Rogelio B. Pinto Inpresos. 2
yt Comment: Molo sella printing eqipment and (
Gc! a Bay @ingss connection with the Pinto fire; A
can however, Rogelf> Pinto bas been reported in the past to have r. He
y hen. been involved in plotting Sgainst the Costa Rican Government.) ‘ : fs
—_ ne eee ee eee eee
} i
‘ 8-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM e
f DISTRIBUTION - 4
f . y : re
Lede 2 TENS i
j Lede ca cet y 4 : . . ie
y Oo Go at? Mot :
Y
4
'

 

 
