vee aye 4
Mh ee he ee te

     

EER TO ca

.- Doerr
ee Sargund Use Onh
x ¥

SUBJECT: Cover Support for A&E. Psychologists Participating ® Net Reproduce
in 82/10 Recruitment Program

or more of the individuals in the attached list will be involved at
sometime in the future. Information is being provided on these individuals
at this time so that future requests for documentation and backstopping
can be arranged with a minimm of delay.

JAMES B. LAU, Chief
Assesszent and Evaluation Staff

Attachment

 
 

 

 

“ ATURN TO GIA
@ackground Use Only
' Do Not Reproduce

. 8 February 1961

MEHORAMDE FOR: Chief, Central Cover Group, Monofficisl Cover
ATTENTION ©: Mire Thomas Ke Strange

SUBJLC? : Cover Support for A&S Psychologists :
' Participating in S3/10 Recruitsent Program |

IRPCRENOS : Mem to C/CCG fr SR/ID, Att. “ir. Thomas Strange,
Subject: Basic Proposal for A&E Assessment of

Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates, dtd 2 Feb 61 — - |

1. A summary of Aiits participation in the 32/10 recreftment ©

progran was included in referenced nemoranduz. It is plenned to carry

 

out the assessment assignment as followse24An A@é assessment psychologist - 7

 

documented as a consultant of .
contact an unwitting candidate for the $2/10 NSDSHKIN progrea by telephon
or correspondence. The candidate will be informed that the consultant
is acting on behalf of confidential clients in the industry,. education
and governnent who have a variety of assignments overseas of varying
duration and degrees of permanencee If the individual indicates avail-
ability the assessment psychologist will contact him in person and carry
out an interview and whatever further assessment is possible under the
COVere . a

WA 2. Drs Xenneth Bradt will be the psychologist on the ASE Steff
who

will make the first assessments under this cover. He entered-on-
duty with this Organization on 13 Decezber 1954 and is at present a GS-13.
In addition to his Agency duties he is a psychological consultant for
the Applied Psychological Corporation, Arlington, Virginia. Or. Bradt
has been an overt member of the Agency curing his entire career, with
one exception: durine December 1940 and Januaryz 1941 he was on 2 wH/y
project, the cover for which was provided by the operating civisione

3e It is requested that the apsropriate documentation be provided
for Dre Bradt and that the necessary ebepa be taken to protect his
expioyment with the Agency.

 
  
 

 
 
 

the A253 Staff who is
anticipated that one

housh Dre Bradt is the only
be in this project, at this
