 

 

- ar — . . a

an [eraa-7,Jthe=~tter ote. current "penetration," © i aan returned co cuba |
nm 1961, and although arrance.ents had been made for him’ to repore by Su, the —

channel has never been activated at his end, in spite of the fact the LAMSEVER-3 |

was seut in te Cuba as a leral traveler to ascertain why not, Appareit iv ;

LIOOZE-1 prefers not*to run any ricks inside of Cuba itself,

Current Situation
ee ol 0k

With regard to the Stat 's present defection and recruitment activities,
the Station has one | LITAMIL- r timid personality whores

 

major value is that he is ith the operational
advantages basically implica, He has a
but is able to
There is prebably .@ hope .that/LITAIL-7]Will turn out to be another LITA
The Station's best chance of getting worthwhile information from of
in the near future seems to be AMSTER-1, who works in the same 'S ArSTOKE-1
did fermerly. While assessments of AMSTZT-1 have net yet indicated ‘sat a proper
piteh can be made to him, he is for all practical purposes already furntshiig much ©
infermatien ef value te LIMASK-1, a veteran KUBARK agent who da in intimate contact
with nim, , 7: a ;

 

     
   

 

  

 

Current Station defection targets include the Cuban Ambassador ninwel!, whe
has many times been reported to be susceptible, and Oden ALVAREZ de ts Cama, an
important official of the CTCR in Cuba, whe re pe
on efect, The Station is now n
the latter case. - .

 
 

th ae oes
Derecigs 7K MASRI
IM 19GS. HAS ety

Msluee in

Batra tess. -
MTS ges,

; et un, FE/
Ws eae fee

a ae”
: an é
OMIT .
¢

tye she
wi bOS dae ede

‘ Zz, tn A

 

 

) CT, se . :
ocbiicl / KAP iM .
 

 

 

 

tet ete

. i . . fos ‘ . es .

“~~
t6g3 Sere a keport on Defe-tien and Beorat wens Activit dor

 

 

Comme “7
owes”

  

nts of Guban-oi acres mostly from the Cuban Sase at Bexlae

Clty. The ms. pertant of these was Jese PARDO Llada, whe was not on o*flet
and not fre. “ne Embassy, but was next te Castro himself, the most yo:

“among the Cut + masses, An unsuccessful “appreach™ was made to %

é@ wtation currently one penetra

 

 

      

pee Zs a Cutan itcdent leader.

ono. er Imb:...y sffielal. In sldition, tion is now fo :
: izity of d. section ef a Seppe, official ef the Ab pet fedhen ae T

> (odin ALVAREZ de. See Ces, Khe 4s
" Saakescound . 4

      
 

 

‘Besides . Jose PARDO Lista," “the abcve-mentioned defections 212 pean”
aUWOLF actions - included: peer?

ak

8 fone

   
     
   
 
 

oe
to

assy ani * 23 a veteran Station agent in clese and ereoy cont. act with |

A. Manuel VILLAPANA Mavtines,- Cutan Air Attache; whe ngier § Se Cred

B, Jaime VARELA Canosa, Cuban Navi Attache i

C, Julian ARIAS Prado, Cuban vicw-csneut Svom Los Angeles;
— D. Antonio R, MONTANES Loredo, Cusan foreign service orfictal;

E. Gilda PORTELA Margolles de MONTANES, Cuban Consul

P, Roberte ROCA ‘Rosillo ;

G. Pedro Lucas ROIG Ortera, Cuban commercial ‘represtntative. _

Tn addition, the Station mde an unsuccessful “approach” to Rohde. UBLA

Segades, titular head of the Stuisnts tn Cuba at that time, The "Zo; reach" “qouctote:

pr’

of a"friendly" talk between « 319°, ton Cs..2 Officer, a mtual friend ‘of CVRELS end
CUBELA when the last-mentionec was vistting in Mexico, While CUBELA dic a0T Fiek
up the opportunity at that tine, he appacently did net report the Incinens to hin
superiors and the groundwor': may Have been laid for Similar action | the future,

Three of the "recruitments” «ere efi
origina}, LIERODE microphones . TOOCE =}
‘AMIL-3]was for a ‘nét: ineonsideradle ie
casera LITAINT-6 furnished little ef value.
eed quotes to indicate that ae at

 
 

plant tek the

 
 

    

   

 

  
 
     
  
     

az a eral LITALS-35-"5 ay ow ove 2 proved.

genase of a LIA a Mest of ‘the reeruitments 4s fo ,cffeoted by prove: Ste: 22:
assets, Lf 2,] ang, LITALUS-2, bara 3)18 still active, uit me
he ne longer nad LITA dered, oped an Embassy "trasi:"

 

eperatien new ed by LITAINT-2 LYTAM Pr jtas been instrumenta! in recruitine

SECRET / KAPOK

: a RETURN TO CIA
as ; ; ‘Background Use Only
Yh ; * Do Not Reproduce

 
