   

outside the Washington, D. C. area. Most of the training will ae

be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR revresen- ;

tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the

final assessment and processing of those REUSKIN Agents

are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADT" or| 06

It should be noted at this point that SR Division plans

process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time

is, of course,of the essence, in view of the fact that these jo

people will have t- be assessed, security-cleared, briefed, — . i
:
t

 

and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the sumer
season. ,

D

AEB Sey
4

    

' KUHNKS /avd (2-28-61)
PENDING

 

ees SSD #95018 oo : : _ ‘|

pt cea yee ene n ee

 

pany el :

 
 

(ioetoraeoss] crane - Y, y
en oe SERRE. ; .

“a és

« o.

. 7 . 28 February 1961
. 1
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :
FRO! :. Chief, 58/2 Desk : *.
SUBJECT: COVER, ~ GENERAL |
(Proposal for ARE ‘Assessment of Potential .

REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

v

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining
cp et to the subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the

  
     

sndun, CCG feels ©

 

 
 

Be :

that the ee copy of SR
_ memorandur ed_3 Fi Tana my wemorandem dated 21.

Febrvary 1 61) shoul bel utilized. This decisionws made

‘as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,
Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. dack SOUTHARD, Chief, ccc /ic.

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine
the type of cover organization that should be substituted for

this purpose. After considering the matter at, len h, it was
ascertained that the Agency has a cleared service in
“oL____tich could possibly utilized as an tial
assessment. This firm, the

is located in the Building,
and is managed by see SSD Fi A
It was agreed that if th could
provide the needed cover, “two OTR psycholo sts*would be docu-
mented in true name with that,fi ° CCG (Frank

 

  
     
    

  

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  

 

 

    
  

..,. O'MALLEY) will make a trip_to) an the fiext few days
to determine whether Miss Ts amenable to the proposed
arrangement .dy The two psychologists ‘selected were Doctors
BPADT an m whom credit checks were recently completed

ofp jth negative sults as to Agency employment.

ae

as he It was further ascertained at this time that Mr.
Howard OSBORNE desired that all training and assessment of
REDSKIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

et — |

; reer a Lf)
crePET

 

 
