 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

~2e

          
    

       
 

Bilemmpt Aueiani dep o Cae ER 3b Jekober F950
tee Gicsade i pay hat af i reac AAs ale a
ariny Captain who bas bewu iepurt¢d us we ine
Anmioins Argeud, under ween: ao worked, sen pel wag |
32 Fane 192% ax Sevres, Frwe

       

Lose 0. ey

 

PE rearct

   

 

Yb Cae Ee Le ater lLodomed

   

    

fe ae Ode be ok bce wee

 

4 The tlaromaiion on the deqmarcne of Gin cae
ig the OLA representative has been cuade available wo ite
Ambagender at Lishon.

 

     

    
 

5. Tne intelligouce information ano

provided by sevetre will be Uieeandaated ac

 

- tetermbierns ox
ea ibe 27 O55, FG

  

cer Federal Burgau of levesugatiun

 

Distribution:
Orty & 1 - Addressee

we
poet

fo

pot

 

~ Ob/ Lisison
~ WELS
Wes

t

- RI

dwt et pete
'

 

pal (1G July 19833

 
    

BCU mAb MN aa RAI aD

 

 

104-10072-10276

3

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

“att

ane UGS

“ apps PUREE count 10 July 1963]
CAL

To i bospaty Diregter tar ilgurdinasion
Bureau ef laieliigemt: and 4 2eeai ch
Gepartiment of Fine ‘

Phoh o: apety Lirweter (Plane; \

SUBJACI: GAS Attempt w pander ihe Gougerrkiion af thy Vaid
States for tke amti-de Gaulle -cuviiiaa

i, Ea hiay 1961, 26 atianopl we cmc) im Listas, Pape Sug eh
by two members of the Organtestiaa de i'4 rx.ee Secrets Ga Fsp te
enlist tke eupport uf the Uaited States Govern: at (apacilic ally whe
Ceetral latelligeuca Agemcy, altheugh the nacie was sever sclaaily
presounced) im theis operations egeiest de Gaulle. i te BEL & eeprt
wae made by Captain Jean Rens Souetire aad .. Sptaia Guerin ifeu).
Ceptain feuctre idestified blusell ix ihe 24% organiaaiiva as
coordinator of eaiernal affaires serving sadex miajes iMerxe Seseoat.
Sovetre ealé what be forcaaw the U, &. rele a8 that af coawhes lag
wher govermmneate io cease suppresding of activities is thair
respective countrien, had lutar purhape ptaviding awactary or
material gagpert, Gouctre eatd he jutanded ca previda same
tater métlon Bbeut the activities uf ais Ox genisatian witch weald ow
of intereat tg the U.S. Is gaawor LG & queastiius en hie stata
ig Portugal, Sowetre expletad that ne izavelled an vacioss PRSEPSTUG,
eue of them dDeing a U. $. passport, He claimed io be ducanwated
&¢ 4 akierslized sittzen fram Mactlatqes, Ke stated thut ae asd
UL. 5. contacte whe could arrange decumesiactan,

  

2. Lhe CLA cepreseucetive vehi tiouetre thei de Gaulle was
the Chief ef State ef an old and respeciod ably of cua U. %,, and that
the U.S, had aksalutely ew inteation of working with aay parsee ar
gtesp against ihe duly-~commiiteied gavermmest of frence,

   

3. Available information fram both orveas aad alfictal F renc!
eparces indlisted that Hawetre be tee aaece af a lermer Prous are
saptala whe escaped from & weaeutiea cng in OSL, Subwasqae me to

   

 

-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only 6
_ Do Not Reproduce 9787

Ce. CeO. ne eee

 
