14-00000

 

 

 

alias and; (2) as early as possible in the week. In any event,

after some expressions of dissatisfaction by the HSCA investigators
against their staff about their lack of knowledge of the Flores
interview, COS asked if AM MUG meant anything to them. Thus primed, .

-they picked up on this and interviewed Flores in private. No

deposition was taken. The investigators were requested. to use an
alias for Flores in both their notes afd any subsequent reports.

5. Upon completion of the Flores interview, Leap, Gortiez, the
COS: and myself met to discuss. the interview. The three
room electronic arrangement in the déT Angel Hotel was outlined.
Neither investigator expressed any concern about this arrangement.
Leap then brought out a copy of the Acting DDCI letter to Chairman

“Stokes concerning release from Secrecy agreements for HSCA interviewees

and requested that it be given tol____bbefore his interview and that
be oraMy advised that he was released from his secrecy
agreement on matters relevant to the HSCA investigation. Leap
emphasized that [cos would be the judge off what was relevant. and ;
what was not e and I read the letter, discussed the situation

- and agreed that I would give the letter to{ pre so advise him

of his release.

6. At 1015, eriea GS-08, Chief of Registry, took Leap
and Gomez to Room 810 in the del Angel Hotel. The electronic arrange-

-ment was explained to them by an OTS representative. Leap asked the

OTS representative to stay in their room during the interview to
correct any possible malfunctions. The OTS representative wisely
declined. I subsequently complimented him on this proper response.

7. At 1045 -- with|] pat my réquest standing unobtrusively
by with his djplomatic passport in the event of difficulty -- I met
in the lobby and took him to Room 809. I gave him the copy
of the Acting DCI letter and advised him that he was released from
his secrecy agreement on matters relevant to the investigation
at hand. I then advised Leap on the inicrophone hockup that
was fully aware of the letter and his release. then introduced

 

C-band left Room 809 fon - Room 808 where and the OTS

representative were already stationed.

8. After approximately forty-five minutes, (<2 Pknocked on
ty door and advised me that the interview was over. I escorted
him from the hotel. He expressed some concern about the difficulty
of remembering events after fifteen years but said that he had done
as well as he could do in responding to questions. He also expressed
a willingness to cooperate in the future. It should be noted in
passing that he was a "walk-in" to the Embassy approximately two
months ago requesting further work with the Agency. This*may explain,
in part, his willingness to cooperate with the HSCA investigation. The
COS shares this assessment with me. ;
104-10065-10085

 

 

ad:

 

[uc 8.2 AZ
etm 10 August 1978 -
“, . .

82,
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD .
. OD ge
SUBJECT: HSCA Field Trip to Mexico City

.

1. The purpose of this MFR is to outline the details of subject
trip for the period 6-8 August 1978 (Mexico City 46122 refers).

2. I departed Washington on Sunday, 6 August 1978 for Mexico

' City. Upon arrival I met with the COS and DCOS to discuss the

interviews to be conducted on Monday, 7 August and Tuesday, 8 August
by a HSCA team consisting of Gary Cornwell, Deputy to Mr. Blakey,
Harold Leap and Edwin Lopez. It was agreed that the interview with
Daniel Flores, staff, Mexico City Station (in alias) would be held
in the Embassy and the interview with | would
be held in the del Angel Hotel using the microphone arrangement
agreed to by Mr. Cornwell at the HQS planning meeting on Friday, 4
August 1978. Electronic equipment (including TV) had already been
either brought from HQS or was available at the Station. —

 

 

3. On Monday, we were advised by cable that the HSCA investigators
would not be coming as scheduled. As I had already made arrangements
to meet with{ for identification purposes and to explain the
interview arrangements, I decided to keep the meeting. The COS
concurred. (~~~ Jwas cooperative and accepted the delay as unavoidable.
I advised him that I would give him as much advance notice as
possible in any future interview. I did not specifically identify
myself as Agency but there is little doubt that he was aware of my
affiliation. Upon receipt of the second cable -- which rescheduled
the HSCA trip (with Mr. Cornwell deleted) --[ was advised that
the interview would, in all likelihood, take place on Tuesday, 8 August
as originally scheduled. ;

4. At 0830, 8 August Leap and Gomez met with the COS and
myself in his office. Neither Leap nor Gomez had any awareness
whatsoever of the requirement to interview Flores. In fact, Lopez
asked me if Flores was LIONION 1. Without exposing my concern about
the lack of briefirfg such a question implied, I responded that LIONION 1
was in Madrid, not Mexico City. Parenthetically at the 4 August
planning meeting, Cornwell had been briefed on the personal plans of
Flores and had written down our request to interview him: (1) in

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 055636

Seneey OWS
14-00000

 

(returned the HSCA investigators to the Embassy here

9,
8 they expressed ppreciation to both the COS and myself and
ne a ; noted that the interview was most worthwhile. The electronic

equipment was cleared from Rooms 809: and 810 and subsequently

 

 

_ released all three rooms back to the del Angel desk clerk. 7

10. No surveillance or other problems were noted during this
operation. .

11. «On Wednesday, 9 August I returned ‘to > HQS and reported the

results of the trip to my superiors.
a ° - 2,.yo 6
Niles R. Gooding} J

 

Ey

Original- Mr. Breckintidge
1 + Mr. Sturbitts
1 -. Mr. Briggs

ce
