14-00000

    
  

 
 
 

   
  

© CONTINUATION OF 2 ea
* 2". ospareHs L : | -UFGA=4253
a a ns :

 

 

  

of age, he actually seems to be about .16- years old, He is of slight
stature, has cleancut features and frank grey eyes, He could mix with
any high school group and pass. unnoticed in small or Jarge. cities.

4, Ne. organized ‘Action Sabotage’ teams in the provinces: with ‘the:
aid of Hans HENGLER, ‘National Militfary Coordinator, who has. since been.
arrested and reportedly ‘undergoing torture in the headquarters of G-2
(Organization and Operations: of these teams are the sub-
following: dispatch. )y. FARINAS #escribed their supplies | as
geek ots ‘and: outdated He -€ited one “example in which their fragmenta-

“t4on grenades.-aré 2 and: during the beach aétion fn. Pinar del ;
Juar (PEREIRA was captured and shot, many of the. grenades
e. :‘Subject.laid the total failure of their. defensive
at i the grenade failures since they | were attacKed. ‘by. numbers
of militia o did: not feel cover and’ ‘precautions were’ necessary after

they: “obser ed the’ firs

      
  

  
    
   
    
        

   
  

      
 

   
    

i
o
s.
9:
bx See
Bw
ra
fete.

  

 
 
        
   
   

5. ‘They were al chaving ‘trouble with the ‘last of their
stock of "time pencil Firing. Device, demolition,” M1). Subject, . :
using a lead pencil, demonstrated how -they “tested. the safety device
at. last minute “jus before ‘inserting the pencil in the. shape charge.

oon some pencils the ng: pins were. faulty” and ‘were ‘discarded,

     
        

     
 

         

- 4. Their’ mos serLlous short ages at ‘present are time pencils,
‘blasting caps and- small-arms for personal defense. He déscribed some
teams as working. in’ éities and having old Springfield rifles as their:
only weapon, This was pointed out as a.double security hazard. since it
could not be concéaled by the. carrier on-an- ‘operation and it jeopardize
their safchouses. by’ its difficult. concealment.

        
    

 
   

  
    

7. FARINAS desciibed their stock of explosives upon ‘his departure
as total of about.120 Ibs” throughout “the Island, and much of this was
the inferior C-3 type. It is distributed roughly as ‘follows :. 60 ibs
in Havana, 25 Ibs in Matanzas, 25 lbs in Camaguey, 10 Tbs in’ Oriente”
with none in Pinar del Rio and. Las. Villas. Subject emphasized the .
importance | of shipping only the C-4 type which is more powerful and
safer to handle because it. is odorless and does ‘not leave the. yéllow
stain that. C+3 does. :

       
       
       
    

“Be When queried as. to where subject. received his ‘training. with
demolitions he replied that his: predecessor had passed on the hasic
precautions, but since then they trained the provincial teams. by taking
the U.S. War Department Demolitions manual and.with the aid of HENGLER'
English language - capabilities, translated sections and reproduced copie
in Spanish for distribution to the outlying. provincial teams.

   
 

  
 
   
 
      
    

9. Subject ‘recalled the following operations during His. period:

        
 

a. DRE ‘teans destroyed the Internat totial Harvester Plant with
“white: Phosphorous" ' incendiary charges. ”

 

   

      

.b.: .On 3F December 1961,. they exploded a bomb in Santiago: de
‘Cuba. and during this action, ‘the brother - ("Pedro") of the
Provincial Chief of Action was captured.

     
  

  

‘ce. In Havana ‘province, San Antionio de los Banos, during
April, an undetermined number of beet cattle were péisoned
by a DRE’ Action team, ~ Oo, eee

   

  

 

d. In Las Villas province, Camajuani zone, DRE téams are
fe , «burning sugar cane fields using short candles’ as the time

delay device.

     
    
   
 

-e@. “In a Goc Parking area ‘at Calle’ Zapata and Paseo in Vadado,
8. to 10. vehicles were destroyed by fire - date not reporte .

   

.£ in the ‘University of Havana campus zone, three bombs were
exninded..destrovine three, vehicles . .

   

       

  

 

 

 
 

 

104-10171-10038

 

 

 

 

i
i
1

 

 

< 2p

Chief, Task Force W

     
 

CLASSIFICATION

" G-BAC-R-E-T.

 
    

  
  

One QUAD
Me Ae ARTE OLS

  

 

   
  
  

" Chief of Station, JHWAVE.
RE Chief of Action & Sabotage ~~

 

was 7
(debriefing of D Sy
ACTION @EQUIRED PUTS ~

   

1 suid quae

   

Action: FYI and files Cette A ei
Je On 22 May,1962, JMWAVE debricfed: oo Jilat re
: Lazaro L.“*FARINAS Rutz, - .

born 9_October 1942 in Baez, Las Villas Province, Cuba,
“Subject resided at Calle 30 No. 214, Vedado, La Habana
prior to departure for the U.S. ‘ :
: Currently regtding. até521 SW Gth Street aApt. No. 14, Miami,
Although subject arrived. 21 arch ona PAA flight from Mexico city,
he passed: through Miami and went on to New York, thus delaying WAVE

opera tional, Cane: .
2. FARI AS([was National Chief of Action _and_ Sa atage in the
clandestine apparat of the Directarla-Revolucionario Estudlantil (DRE)
until carly: Mareh_1962 when. he was replaced by Laurcano PEQUENO (aka “~~
“"[ino"). Subject had pqme exposed and sought asylum and departure '

. by safe conduct to Mexico Citys, an kt Calves : pe a

ope ew

      
   
    

 

   
 

 

 
 
 

    
 

 

 

3. Subject described his tenure in general as having been fairly
active with good production considering the materiel and. GOC ‘repressive
measures... He traveled quite freely }from Havana to Pinar del Rio, back
: to Camaguey on to ‘Santiago in Ortente Province; This was possible
_mainly because of his general appearance since although he is 20 years

 
 

 

      
 

Bistribution;:

 

  
   

DATE DISPATCHED

JUN § pO52

  
   
  

4 June 1962
OFSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-4253
PEADQUARTERS FI ie NUMBER
19-120~19/3

 

  

     

    
 

a CASSINICATION a
S-E-C-R-E-T

 

 

  

   
    
    
   

   

 

      
 

   

   

   
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

: this, ‘time, his experience “and capabilities are such tha
give

   

~ - we
CONTINUATION OF TTR FTC
OMSPATCH

 
  

 

S-E-C=R-E=T ‘ UFGA=4253.

 

“10. Concerning PW activities, FARINAS explained that he seldom

‘had an oppurtunity. to-particioate, but that he was aware of the dis-

tribution of the DRE organ, “Trinchera". These issues come out spora-
dically, about ‘10 to°15,000 per issuc for Havana and Havana Province. ©
Only a few copies are carried out to the provinces and they ‘are tre-
quently reproduced locally. The two largest and most popular issues were
those known as "Alberto MULLER" (DRE Secretary. General currently :
imprisoned ‘at Bonfato Prison in Oriente) and the “Juanin" issue

(dedicated to Juanin PEREIRA, shot by firing squad).

    

ll. “While subject ‘cannot feturn ‘for clandestine operations” to.

thShould ‘be
further training and.considered for future. operations of guerrill
warfare or civic resistance nature, Meanwhile, subject’ is preparing.
detailed.reports of provincial operations :and he will. probably be
consulted on future Clandestine operations planned by JMWAVE..

 

‘END OF DISPATCH

 
 

 

 

 

” . a wo YR LE qe
~ - pie VER pe
Loe
DRE ORGANIZATION INSIDE CUBA, AS OF 5 JUNE 1962

 

: oO “Miguel” (L.c, .. oR used in corresontenca) Civil cocrtinstor and
an _ srotahle true name Finance Chief
— temeet [hg cae ant

 

 

 

 

<9 miner QOD gg — roms
"Cuca" >. + m_aCivil Resistance
Marto® Gs.) ob oo ~--Pre-university students ;

| ov Mi tery ob .

“fans” Gc. HG armested
*Lino® ) “=-Security action and sabotage
weteest OE sug
"Jesus" (RC) OG a Entel gence

Carios® _ Ob ~--Germral coordinator, arrested

Provinetal echtefs oo |

 

 

 

Camaguey — (vacant) ; ah

 

Oriente a
Pinar del Rio — {nevly orranized by recent orerations; "Pepe* (Juacta captain)?,
"Patricio"? » "Cordo"?) ;

TR
