a ee nat

Distribution:
Orig - Adse S. D. Breckinridge

OLC/SDB/ksn

"Moreover, he added that Snyder went to the State
Department as a bona fide employee. This information was
confirmed by a former State Department official familiar with
procedures for State Department relationships with CIA employees.” (U)

Page 66. Following the statement about Dr. Davison's expulsion
from the USSR, end the sentence with a period after "...from the Soviet
Union.” The next sentence would commence, "(a)fter the assassination
of...." This refers to a specific operation that retains certain CI

considerations. (C)

Pages 69-71. Request deletion of all paragraph starting on
page 70 with "Davison admitted his involvement," as well as the
paragraph starting the next page with “(a)ccording to his instructions..."
and the paragraph starting on page 72 with "Davison denied participating in
any other intelligence activity...." The last paragraph on page 72
could stand as written, with deletion for editorial purposes of the word
“(a)ccordingly." (C)

Page 72 ff. George de Mohrenschildt. Request J. Walton Moore's
name be replaced by description. "CIA local representative." (C)

Page 77 ff. William D. Gaudet. Mr. Gaudet's name should not be
revealed. The summary quoted on page 80 reveals personal details and
reference to financial loans and should be deleted. (Cc)

Page 77. ‘Footnote. As it did not involve a CIA employee, suggest
deletion in third line of statement "and a CIA." (U)

Page 81.2 Wyevald in Helsinki en route to USSR. At page 85 reference
to the CIA fj deleted, as should the

 
  

 

showing the existence of CIA
operations ina sensitive Tocation). On page 86 reference ta CIR)
dispatch\> hould be deleted; it should suffice if it was simply stated

at “a dispatch from the Embassy, dated 9 October 1959...." The reference
to(e CIA dispatch pe page 87. should be deleted. (C)
2

Page 89. The absence of a reference to the origin of the communication
conceals the location, and there is no objection to this form. (U)

Very truly yours,

=> BH HL

] - SA/DDCI (Touhy)

~ LA/DDO (Sturbitts) :

- OGC (Rininger) -

~- OS (Sullivan) '

- Holmes i

- OLC/Subj

- OLC/Chrono : ke.
(12 Feb 79) 3

2 a on a ow

006 #92
 

 

Page 43. Please describe Mrs. Egerter by position in lieu of using
her name. “The CI Staff officer who opened the Oswald 201 file." (C)

Page 47. Request omit specific reference to "legal travelers
program." While the program is inactive at present, it may be activated
at some time in the future. It is an intelligence method, and publicity
on the concept wouls jeopardize those who may particpate in the future.
(See earlier notes.) (c)

Page 48. The reference to "the CIA's New York Field office” should
be changed to "a CIA field office." (C)

Page 59. Request that the last sentence in the paragraph ending in
the middle of the page end after "Joint Press Reading Service,” and

‘that the rest of the sentence be deleted. It represents a working

relationship with Vaison services. (Cc)

Same page. Request that second sentence, next paragraph, be solely
“(t)he application was withdrawn," the next sentence starting "(s)he
acknowledged being debriefed by an Agency employee, etc. etc." There
should be no reference to her being denied a security clearance. (C)

’ Page 60. Footnote. Delete reference to "Donald Jameson or James
MacDonald" and the two places where "Mr. Jameson" appear elsewhere in
the same footnote. This can be handled by ending the first sentence
with "C.I.A. employee," deleting the remainder of that sentence, and
substituting.the phrase "the person interviewing her," where the name
"Mr. Jameson" appears. (C) :

Page 61. The legal traveler phraseology problem noted earlier.
The last sentence in the first paragraph ending on that page might be
better phrased as follows: (U)

"An interview with the former Agency official
responsible for seeking cooperation of selected visitors to the
Soviet Union during the years 1958-1961, confirmed that Ms.
McMillan had not been used by the CIA.” (WU)

Page 65. Delete “at Harvard University," and change next line
to read “of his access to others who might be going to the...." This
merely tells the story while generalizing the specific operational
activity. (C)

Page 66. , the two complete sentences at the top of the page
ention of cover arrangements, per se,
The following language is _ Suggested: (Cc)

an,

006 YO2
Page 20. Suggest the sentence end with the date of opening of
the file, 9 December 1960. The immediate cause of opening the file on
Oswald was the administrative action arising from a State Department
inquiry. That preceded lis queries about “reentry into the United
States." While the memorandum is quoted correctly, the memorandum is
incorrect. (U) -

Page 20. The opening form provided only a space for citing a
_ "source document." It was customary to refer to an organization, when the
opening action was taken on its authority, as in this case. (U)

Page 21. Presumably the reference meant to say "State Department
files.” (U) ;

Page 22. A "seemingly long delay" would seem so only to those not
familiar with the procedure for opening 201 files. Perhaps the HSCA
investigators feel in some way that there should have been a requirement,
but there was not, and there should not be. The implicit criticism
reflects a continued failure to grasp this operation. (U)

Page 24. Has the draft erred in using the name "Lee Henry Oswald"
at the end of the first paragraph? Did the author not mean that had
records on Oswald been sought in his correct name, Lee Harvey Oswald,

it still would have been found although indexed under Lee Henry Oswald? (U)

The letters-"AG" on the opening sheet of the Oswald 201 file

; _ Page 25 ff. The draft emphasizes the memory of the witness (a man
with quite a good memory on. many things). Unfortunately, his memory
_ betrays him on the timing of the institution of the "AG" symbol. Agency
:records show that it was in use prior to the assassination of President
Kennedy. Perhaps the witness recalls it coming to his attention during
the investigation and now believes that. it was developed then, but the ~
-records show his present recollection on this detail to be in error.
Part of the problem with this write-up is that the investigators sought
the answers from people years after the fact rather than asking officially;

when an official request finally was made, the answer was readily available.

The effect of that lost time is reflected in the long treatment of a
non-issue. (U) ;

- Page 26. Rather than referring to "its records handbook," it would
be preferred if the phrase “a records manual" were substituted. (u)

Was there a dual filing system on Oswald?

Page 29. -Second paragraph. The words "changed" and "change" should
be “charged” and "charge." The meaning is significantly varied by this .
error....The basic operation has to do with the practice of desk or case
eriteaagpeammaman sine eam ntti Net

 

officers to hold some files. Their possession of the file is recorded
centrally, i.e., it is "charged" to them. This records accountability
procedure is one of the considerations central to an understanding why
"fake" files are not possible on an official Agency operation. Someone
not understanding it might consider the central "charge" record to be

an indication of "duplicate" files. In any event, there would always

be the indexed (but not consolidated) general files, but "duplicate files”

-in the sense of concealment is.an incorrect characterization; such a

characterization would, again, reflect basic misunderstandings. The
hypothetical premise is in error. (U)

Were 37 documents missing.. w.?
Page 30-31. Delete sentence at bottom of page 30 and top of page

31. It refers to a classified document. (C)

Page 32. Bottom of page. The statement of what the Committee
"was aware of from its outset" about a dual filing system, betrays. a
preconception rather than a fact. "This awareness (sic) was heightened
into concern" by the rough notes when the ZRRIFLE program was in its first

“planning stage. That someone considered such a thing--and clearly did not

employ it--demonstrates only that such a thing was considered and not
carried out. It does not mean that it could have been done successfully.
A reference file has to be held in the central filing system, and it will
tell where the full file is (see above comments). There can be no official
operation without a record file. The key consideration, if evidence is

of any concern to the Committee, is not that Harvey thought about it, but

. that he did not-do it. Why? Because he could not. A lot is draped over

the unimplemented ZRRIFLE notes, and extrapolative speculation covers the
lack of supporting evidence. This was commented on in a previous letter
to you from me dated 27 September 1978. (U)

Page 33. Top of page. There seems to be an editorial error, jin
which reference is made to "an Agency relationship with the CIA." The
context is not clear enough to reveal what is intended. (U)

Page 38. Footnote*. There were not "50" communications in the
folder. There were 30, and some of these were not relevant to Oswald. (U)

; Page 39. It: is not at all clear why reference to Oswald in a CIA
file would “raise a question of whether he was, in fact, involved in some
sort of CI project." Perhaps because the reviewer did not understand.
Having asked the question, it appears that there issa compulsion to write
about it. (U)

Page 42. Delete reference to retired employee as “under cover." (C)
 

 

_- Page 5. The reference to "institutional obstacles," must be
stated in the context of security standards. Once the Committee
accepted the Agency's standards the only remaining problem was one
of relevance (under first sentence of the agreement between Chairman
Stokes and the DCI dated 19 August 1977), and the ability of the
HSCA investigators to explain what they wanted. (U)

- Same page. It would be appreciated if the report did not state that
"the vast majority of CIA files made available...were reviewed in
unsanitized form." While a majority of the files made available were
reviewed, and the great majority of these were unsanitized, we would
prefer not to have it advertised, even if it contributed to the credibility
of the Committee's report. (C) .

Page’ 7, continuing to middle of page 8. New phraseology to
remove operational detail:. (U) ‘

"To Investigate this matter further, the Committee
interviewed those officers who had been chiefs and/or
deputy chiefs of units within the Soviet Russian Division
during 1959-61, and who had been responsible for clandestine
activities. The heads of the claridestine activity section

stated that, because of his obvious instability, Oswald would ~

never have met the Agency's standards for use in this field." (U)

Page 8. First footnote. This discussion should be deleted
because of its explicit reference to details of the legal traveler
program. However, if some reference is necessary, the following
language is suggested: (U) ‘

- . "The practice at that time of seeking cooperation of
selected foreign visitors to the USSR for limited purposes,
involved approaching them prior to their trip. As Oswald
went to the Soviet Union in 1959, only the years 1959-62
were checked by the Committee." (U)

Page 8. -Second footnote. Suggested correction of phrasing. One

officer “claims to believe,” as distinguished from “acknowledges” the
_ possibility of a "vest pocket" operation known to no one. That such

an. operation might be conducted, known to but one or two, would be possible
only if not in behalf of the Agency. The HSCA investigators have had
explained to them, in extenso, the variety of cross checks and controls,
administrative, financial and operational, that work against such a secret
operation. - If someone--as could any member of the HSCA staff, for that
matter--wishes to conduct a private operation of some sort, one would

have to accept in theory the possibility. But it would be no more of
104-10067-10248

Sonal eeeaineeiaietiae iit eee

.
|

 

t
v6

* .. so wo, , 2 : a.
‘ : .

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
* Do Not Reproduce

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20505

OLC 79-0113/c-

Legislative Counsel -

13 February 1979

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

“Dear Mr. Blakey:

Forwarded herewith are comments on draft reports forwarded by
you recently. The section titled Cuban-American presents some
questions that require more detailed review and will be the subject
of later comments. If comments we make are adopted, we agree with
unclassified publication. (U) .

Oswald, Was He or Was He Not, a CIA Agent?

It is understood that this is intended for unclassified publication,
so comments will relate to security and accuracy. (U)

Page 2.-, The HSCA investigators did not review the "CIA's
144-volume Oswald File." They did read 19 volumes of the CI Staff
57-volume Oswald file. There were another 87 so-called “bulky” files
in the CI Staff Oswald file, of which 16 have been reviewed. Of the
seven volumes. held by the Office of Security, four were reviewed and
part of a fifth. If FOIA materials released by the Agency were read
elsewhere, it still would not constitute the same thing because of
sanitization, in addition to which the organization of the files would
be missed. Whatever was read, as stated it is incorrect. (U)

- Page 4. . The statement "nor was there always an independent
means of verification that all materials requested by the Agency were,
in fact, provided," leaves the gratuitous inference that there may have
been some withholding. If there were files in the Agency that were not
made available, it simply would have been because they could not be found
in response to the less than effective manner in which some materials
were requested. In any event, before the above statement in the draft
can honestly be made, it would have been necessary for the HSCA ~
investigators to have read all the materials made available to them.
They did not. It is estimated that some 20% of the files made available
for HSCA investigators were not reviewed; some of those are very

‘voluminous. (U)

 

ae

 
14-00000

nth i a gee a

 

a CIA operation, in one instance than the other. Even the case

cited as the basis for the suspicion of HSCA investigators is cited
selectively and out of context. There is substantial significance,
expecially in the present context, that the activity they have in
mind was not run the way that they depict it. See ZRRIFLE comments.
At some point one would assume that supporting evidence would have

to be presented, or theorized remote possibilities must be dropped or
severely qualified. (U)

Page 9. Top two lines should be rephrased as follows to avoid
specific reference to the legal traveler program: (C)

",..Soviet Russia Division's section which sought the
cooperation of visitors to the Soviet Union...." (U)

Page 9. First complete sentence, stating "(t)hese Agency ;
officials...." should be deleted. It could serve to focus Soviet
operational attention on "clean-cut college graduates," who might visit
the USSR from the U.S. In any event, it is incorrect; undergraduates
as well as graduates agreed to cooperate when this program was in effect,
as well as non-college types. Reference. by Agency witnesses probably

were made as illustrative rather than in the literal sense that it was heard
-by HSCA investigators. (C) *

Page 10, ff. It seems that Wilcott hardly merits the space devoted
to his allegations. The Committee itself has discredited his testimony
and to further servée'his propaganda aims is questionable. In any event,
his location in\Japantreveals a post that has not been acknowledged by
the U.S. or the(Japanese) governments, and further publicity could have
political repercussions.\| It provides the opportunity to have Wilcott
speak with apparent authority and credibility as to his work. This even
includes his claim to having “unknowingly disbursed payments for Oswald's
project using that cryptonym."\{How he could have, in the first place,
having arrived after Oswald left(lapan,} is dubious (a fact not noted in
the draft). But the allegation of other operational disbursements there
could prove troublesome in a number of ways. It serves no purpose and we
believe should be deleted. (C)

 
   
 

If some reference seems necessary, it is suggested that naming of
Wilcott be replaced by reference to an unnamed former employee who served
at an unnamed foreign post. This would, of course, necessitate other
deletions. (C)

Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File

Page 15. Bottom line. The phrase "\..bringing all of the CIA's
information pertaining to that..." is incorrect. Not all papers will
be in such a file; some will be held elsewhere on occasion. The phrase
should read "...consolidating certain CIA information pertaining to
that...." > (U)

Page 16. Top line. In line with the foregoing correction, this
should read "...individual into one folder belonging to the Directorate
of Operations,...." (U)

Page 16. Third line, second paragraph. The file was opened
"purportedly" because of counterintelligence consideration. This has
been belabored elsewhere in the drafts. Yes, he did meet the criteria
for constituting a possible CI threat, so it was permissible to open
a file on him if it appeared desirable. The Committee has been advised
of the primarily administrative reasons that, joined with other

.considerations, led to the actual opening of the file. Further, the Com-

mittee ts aware of only one--not "at least" one--instance where concealed

files were contemplated (is the phrase "forged documents" literally correct?).

In any event, the fact remains, the thought was not implemented (1) because
minimum records were al] that were necessary in that case (although
records were kept), and (2) an official agency operation requires some
basic documentation, as noted elsewhere. (U}

Page 17. Footnote. The cited missing document (Third Agency-- “

naval--documents) are in the file, and were there when reviewed by HSCA
investigators. This is detailed elsewhere. (U)

Why was the file opened...a year after his attempt to defect?

Reiterating explanations given elsewhere, there was no requirement
to open a file. The judgment of the officer in question controlled. (U)

Page 18. “Top of page. While the cable could provide a proper basis
for opening a file, if there was reason for doing so in the absence of a
requirement to do so, it was also quite proper to have decided against
doing so. It tends to boil down to a matter of proper judgment then,
against what a novitiate might think 20 years later, because Oswald killed
the President. The basic consideration is that there was no requirement
to open files; the administrative objective is to hold down the number of
201 files. There had to be a reason as well as there being information
meeting the criteria that constituted a threshhold for whether one was
even permitted to open such a file. (See comments on draft at pages
2000589-2000590, Issua A - #2, Opening of Lee Harvey Oswald's file.) (U)

Page 19. At the time mentioned, the organization was the Directorate

of Plans, not the "DDO." (U)

po bfoAa
