 

Sra Perry » Ver sonal aelertors from
mo Wr Ge wend XS VWew VE
So ly Rossel

 
 

 

Two articles appeared in the Chicago press,

one on 16 August 1963, and one on 20 August 1243,
that suggested Sam was working with the Agency. .
The lirst article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times. -
written by staff writer, Sandy Smith, and had asics ~
headline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.
It relates that the Agency reportedly was in touch
with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them
in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. it also men-
tioned the Las Yegds wiretap, which the article
claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative .

sgamization." Tt further went on to state that, a
upon inguiry of this organization, they stated the .
tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency. The other article appeared.in the
Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony
Weitzel, and commented that during March 1952,
Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing
him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me
alone? I'm one of you!" Sam allegedly stated thar,
atter Castro's tisa in Cuba, . CLA overative con-
tacted him and wanted to kmow if Sam coul2 ao any-
ing for the Government on the turbulent little island.
S.m said ha had friends on both sides, but no clout.
That was it.

 

17,

heu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be~

sween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to

O'Connell's tras employsr and, at one point, stated that he was
convinced he was emvloysd by. the CLA, and that the project was.

sponsored by the Agency. He hastened to state that he was not
forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of ‘his and.”

 

surther, he would not mention this to anyore else, inclnding Sam.
Sam 23 never introduced to any Agency personnes! and,
VRS nevir mentioned to him, it is Mabeu's belief he evs

dche \gency was the power behind the operation.

 

 

 

Roselli was introduced to James P, O'Cenneil, of this

 
 

 

18. in May 1962, because of Mr, O'Connell's 2ssigament
to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to
Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force. W.

 

Harvey was introduced as William. Walker. It is not known whether...

Roselli aver became aware of Harvey's true name.

™ / a . 4 -

. Howard J, Osborn
‘Director of Security _

  
 
  
  
    
 

 

 

 

SRT he thse

ie EASES

st

 

3. Maheu was asked to approach Roselli, who tmew Mahbeu

3 a personal relations executive handling domestic 2n4 foreign
accounts, and tell him that he had recently been retained by a
client -who represented several international business firms
which were suffering heavy financial loases in Cuba as a result
of Castro's action. They wers cenvinced that Castro's removal
was the answer to their problem and were willing to vay a price
of $150, 000 for ita succesSful accomplishment. i: was to he made
clear to Roselli that the U. S. Government was not, and t should not,
Decome ware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Roselli on i+ Septermber 1960 at
the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initial reaction wag
“to void getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he = -
agreed te introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who lmew the .

  

 

"Cuban crowd." Roselli made it clear he did not want any money

for his part and believed Sarm would feel the same way. Meither

of these individuals w&sVever paid cut of Agency fends. .
2. Duriag the we al ot e323 ‘intrecuced

  
 

to Sam who was staying at the
(Ss sakimpre ressior GP Sanrwis”
viduab.eno looked and-actad like 1.common Funro: er hooe=
hum Ueweverhis-diving accommodations at the hotel Selied
this, -s did. the fact that Maheu learned Sam was under seriodic
- survaillance by the FBI) It was several weeks alter his meeting
Sam and Joe, who was identified to him as a courier cperating
een Havana and Miami, that ke saw phetograchs of both sf :
these individuals in the Sunday supvlemental "Parade." They
were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana and Santos Traiiicant,
respectively. Both were on the list ofthe Attorney General's
ton most-wanted men. The former was described 23 the Chicage
ithe Sosa Nostra and succaasor to sven ind the
ostra boss of Cuban operations ad :
tately upon ascertaining this iniormecion.

iilami Seach.
7 umeconth indi-. -

  

 

 
 

  
 
  

   

 
  
 

 
 

 

 

  
 

 

fod for t0zte

 

 

 

24 Sum) 1956 |

MEMORANDUM POR: -SeccteDiractor of ‘Central intelligence :

SUBJECT = « -¢ Seasese, nope a ny HiNY Ros
se » . eee —— . . : ° : “

nn
-
:

1, This memorandum is for information only. ss
Lappreached
Colonel Sheffield Edwards té determine if the Office of Security.
had aasets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring .

2.. In Angust 1960, Mr. Richard M, Bissell

Bangster-type action. The mission target was Ghe-ychistion Gi)

Fidel Castro,

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a smalj group
waa made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his.
approval, Colonel J.C. King, Chief, WH Division, wag bri Zed,
but all details were deliberately concealed from any of the ;
IMWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel vartici~-
pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the
Purpese of the mission, :

4. Robert A. Mahenu wags contacted, driefe3 generally cn
the project, and Tequested to ascertain if he could Gevelop an en-
tree into the gangster elements as the first step teward accom~-

dlishing the desired goal,

3. Mz. Maheu advised that he had met one Joauny Reselli
Several occasions while visi

  
    

thom,

oling inc:

 

 

a

.

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

EEE

eas

Ee

f assigned Dr. 0 develop a pill that had the

 
 
 
 

 

Y @ omy B we
. qa

EVES € omy

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be & much more
effective operation. Sam indicated that he had a prospective ~-.
nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had - -
been receiving kickback payments from the gambling interests,
; who still had. access.to Castro and was. in a financial hind.

  
  
   

. a.
/ oO Cornelius Roosevelt, hief,. TSD, owas consulted and rn
vee

 

 

es)

elements of rapid solubility, high tethal sontent, and little or ¥~
- mo traceability. She of these items were é produced and, after 7;
_: being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.
: Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned ever to Sam for the”
* mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. “Guan wo briefed on the ultimate
ase of the pills. : a

ll. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After ‘several weeks -

of reported atternpts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out
of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made
several attempts without success. . .

12, Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of he
principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, ‘had become dis-
‘affected with the apparent ineffectual progress oi the Junta and
was willing to handle the mission through his own resources.

- 43. Dr, VerGna was approached and jumped at the oppor-
tunity of getting involved in an independent operation, Ee was
told that the private interests ticking the project did not want
the U. S. Government 2 particularly the CLA, to know of their
involvement. (So fav as thig Office knows, ha has never divulged
__ his participations in the project to the Agency. }

H
3
i

iz, He asked, aga prere quisite to the deal, rhat he be given
$15,000 for organizational expenses and requested 51, 7&0 worth
of cormmunications equipment.

13. Dy. Verona's potential was never fully =: “pleites
the ® exolect was canceled shortly after the Bay of 3igs zpzisode-.
ona w23 advised that the offer was withdriwn, ind the sills

ratrieved.

 

 
14-00000

 

. : a . oa : . n bat =
“ _ EAR yiEIDE
: . “16. OF significant interest was ah incident which involved
a request levied by Sam upon Maheul and now ¥ shapes. Up asa

potential flap j ; . .

At tho height of the Project negotiations, Sam -
. Sxpressed concern sieelnyey E od

 
   

 

says-Miamtto ¢ go ov Véwas and .
taken ‘oL-the-matte:h P himself. inorder to pe, pre~_

vent this, -Maheu-contacted- Edward Dubois, a .
Florida j inveatigator, and: ‘asked hhim-to handle the

sof ~~

Fistead of inatalting a bugtin- the-xoom, the .
technician placed 4 tan onthe phone, which ‘ob-
viously did not serve 2 Sam!s purposs” ithe techai-
cian involved: in the assignment wag discovered i in
the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's *
office for questioning. ft fett rou .
_. Dubsiaby telephone, he called Mahertay. the wo
te Kenilworth Hoist, . Miami) and informed him that
7 he had been detained by the police. This call wag "
', mmade in the Presence of the Sheriff's personnel, - . .

 
 
 

 

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-
nounced its intention to : Prosecute Maheu along
swith the technician, On 7 February 1962, the .
Director of Security briefed the Attorney General, :

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstantes. leading up
to Maheu's involvement i in the wiretap. At our re-
quest, prosecution was dropped,

  

    
   
 

ssiFtes sy OS 33
XEiieT pea ae
eT wh TEAL BECLASSIFICATION
Sa, yO SP TION CATECORY;
vO 4.) Coirele one or more)
oe. earns  becuaseaees ON -

 

   
  
 

 

= 22
peeeay
CaazeT

  
 

 

 
