74-0000

 

investigators believe there should have been a requirement, but there was’
not, and should not be. The implicit criticism reflects a failure to grasp
this operation. (vu)

_ Page 25. Has the draft erred in using the name "Lee Henry Oswald" at
the end of the first paragraph? Did the author not mean that had records
on Oswald been sought in his correct name, Lee Harvey Oswald, it still would

e have been found although indexed under Lee Henry Oswald? Cv)

The letters "AG" on the opening sheet of the Oswald 201 file

 

Page 26 ff. The draft emphasizes the memory of the witness (a man with
quite a good memory on some things). Unfortunately, his memory plays him tricks
on the institution of the "AG" symbols. Agency records show that it was

‘in use prior to the assassination of President Kennedy. Perhaps the witness

recalls learning of it during the investigation and now believes that it was

 

developed then, but the records show him to be in error. The problem with
this subject is that the investigators sought f answers from people years
after ‘the fact rather than asking officially; when they finally did the answer
' was readily available. The Tost time is recorded in the long treatment of
a non-issue. Co)
Page 27. "Rather than referring to “its records handbook,” it would

be preferred if the phrase "a records manual" were substituted. Cv)

Was There a Dual Filing System on Oswald?

 

Page 33. What the Committee “was aware of from its outset" about a
dual filing system, betrays a preconception rather than a fact. "This

awareness (sic) was heightened into concern" by the rough notes when the

 
74-0000

 

ZRRIFLE program was in a planning stage. That someone considered such a
thing--and clearly did not employ it--only suggests that such a thing was
considered and not carried out. It does not mean that it could have

been done successfully. A reference file has to be held in the central

filing system, aud it will tell where the full file is. There can be no
official operation without a record file. The key consideration, if

evidence is of any concern to the Committee, is not that Harvey thought

about, but that he did not do it. Why? Probably because he could not.

A lot is draped over this unexecuted study, and extrapolative speculation
covers the lack of supporting evidence. This has been the subject of a previous

memorandum from me dated 27 September 1978. cu) ,

“a 5

 

Page 34. "Top of page. There is an editorial error, in which reference
is made to “an Agency relationship with the CIA." The context is not clear
enough to reveal what is intended. Co}

Page 40. It is not at all clear why reference to someone ina
CIA file would "raise a question of whether Lee Harvey Oswald was, in
fact, involved in some sort of CI project." Depends on who is looking at
files they don’ t understand. Having asked the question, one must assume
there is a compulsion to write about it. Co)

Page 44. Please describe Mrs. Egerter by position in lieu of
using her name, “The CI Staff officer who opened the Oswald 201 file." ©)

Page 48. Request omit specific reference to "legal travelers program.”

While the program is inactive at present, it may be activated at some time in

 
 

Ws oe
 

permisstble to open a file on him if it appeared desirable. The Committee
has been advised of the essentially administrative reasons that joined con-
siderations which led to the actual opening of the file. Cw )

Why was the file opened...a year after his attempt to defect?

Reiterating explanations given elsewhere, there was no requirement
to open a file. The judgment of the officer in question controlled. (vu)

Page 19. Top of page. While the cable could provide a proper
basis for opening a file, if there was reason for doing so. in the absence
of a requirement to do so, it was also quite proper to have decided not to
do so. It tends to become a matter of a proper judgment then, against what a
novitiate might think 20 years later, when the subject had killed the
President. The basic consideration is that there was no requirement to
open files; the administrative objective is to hold down the number of 201 _
files. There had to be a reason as well as there being information
meeting the criteria that constituted a threshhold for whether one was even
permitted to open such a file. (See comments on draft at pages 2000589-2000590,
Issue A - #2, Opening of Lee Harvey Oswald's file.) (vu)

Page 20. At the time mentioned, the organization was the Directorate
of Plans, not the "DDO." cu)

Page 21. The opening form showed only a place for citing a "source
document." It was customary to refer to an organization, when the opening
action was taken there. This has been explained often enough to not be
migunderstood, whether believed or not. (U \

Page 23. A “seemingly long delay" would seem long only to those not

familiar with the procedure for opening 201 files. Perhaps the HSCA

 
74-0000

 

only if not in behalf of the Agency. The HSCA: investigators have had it
explained to them in so many ways that a variety of cross checks and controls,
administrative, financial and operational, work against such a development. Cu ,)
Page 9. Not all persons in the Tegal traveler were college graduates. cc)
NOTE: Although the Tegal traveler program is inactive at
present, it would be preferred that no mention be made-to it,
as it may be reinstituted at some point in the future. It is
an operational technique that, should not be publicized. It would
be preferred if it were simply stated that none of thase going to
the Soviet Union, whose cooperation was requested, made contact
with Oswald. Ce 2)
. Page 10, ff. It seems that Wilcott hardly merits the space devoted

to his allegations. The man essentially is discredited, and to satisfy his

 

 

propaganda aims ‘is questionable. (In any event, his location reveals
a post that has not been acknowledged by the U.S. or overnments .
It provides the opportunity to have Wilcott speak with apparent authority

and credibility as to his work, even having “2 “unknowingly disbursed
payments for Oswald's project using that cryptonym." How he could have, in
the first place, having arrived after Oswald left Japan, is dubious (a fact
not noted in the draft). But the allegation of operational disbursements

there could prove troublesome in a number of ways.| (<)

Lee Harvey Oswald's CIA File (page 15 ff.)

Page 17. The file was opened “purportedly” because of counterintelligence
consideration. This has been belabored elsewhere in the drafts. Yes, he..

did meet the criteria for constituting a possible CI threat, so it was

2py 7
What the draft indicates is “plausible” to the author, about the
Bureau's not reporting it, as speculation and not fact. Had these been
a real problem, it would have been worked out. That the Bureau did not
complete its investigation until too late in the scheme of things to report to
the Warren Commission can mean no more than that. It did the investigation and
that cleared up the matter for purposes of responsible and mature evaluation. Cc ’
Footnotes. Corrections are below:
3/ Classified CIA Document IN 72615, 3 Dec 63
5/ Classified CIA Document IN 72829, 3 Dec 63
6/ Classified CIA Document DIR-86761, 4 Dec 63
9/ Classified CIA Document IN 74227, 12/5/63
11/ Classified CIA Dispatch No. 22579, 12/5/63 oe
14/ Classified CIA Document DIR-87188, 5 Dec 63
16/ Classified CIA Document IN 43194, 19 Mar 64

 

22/ Classified CIA Document IN 43940, 20 Mar 64

: 23/ Classified CIA Document, Personality File Action Request,

16 Dec 63 cu)
Oswald, Was He or Was He Not, A CIA Agent?

It is understood that this is intended for unclassified publication,
so comments will relate to security and accuracy.

Page 2. The HSCA investigators did not review the "CIA's 144-volume
Oswald file." - They did read 58 volumes of the CI Staff Oswald file, but
they did not read 38 others. There were another 87 so-called "bulky" files
not read at CIA, in the CI Staff Oswald file. Of the seven volumes held by
the Office of Security, four were reviewed, and part of a fifth. If FOIA ©

materials released by the Agency were read elsewhere, it still would not
 

constitute the same thing because of sanitization. Whatever was read,
as stated it is incorrect. (v)

Page 4. The statement "nor was there always an independent means of
verification that all materials requested by the Agency were, in fact,
provided," leaves the gratuitous inference that there may have been some
withholding. If files in the Agency were not made available, it simply would
have been because they could not be found in response to the less than
effective way in which some materials were requested. In any event, before
the above statement in the draft can honestly be made, it would have been
necessary for the HSCA investigators to have read all the materials made
available to them. They did not. The amount of unread material is estimated
variously from one quarter to one third (see above comment as it applies to
the so-called Oswald file). (O) ,

Page 5.. The reference to "institutional obstacles," must be stated
in the context of security standards. Once the Committee accepted the

Agency's standards the only remaining problem was one of relevance

(under the agreement between Chairman Stokes and the DCI), and the ability of

the HSCA investigators to explain what they wanted. Cu 5
Same page. It would be appreciated if the report did not state that
“the vast majority of CIA files made available ...were reviewed in unsanitized
form." While the majority of the files made available were reviewed, and the
great majority of these were unsanitized, we would prefer not to have it
advertised, even if it contributed to the credibility of the Committee's report.(
Page 8. Footnote. One officer "claims to believe," as distinguished
from "acknowledges" the possibility of a “vest pocket" operation known to no

one. That such an operation could be run, known to but a few, would be possible

 
 

ae
yee.

 

Page 6. References to Monterrey "Station" (on this page) and
Monterrey Base on the next page should be deleted, with reference toa
source. References to Lopez and Ruiz should be changed. CC )

Same page. It is noted that a cable by the DCOS in Mexico is
cited without recording that it is in error. “The point is relevant to
subsequent observations in the draft. (< ) .

Same page. The reference to LAM/FI should be changed to. “responsible. "(c )

Page 6. Discussion of the 1975 review of the 201 file. The draft
seems not to understand what the review was. The form was entitled "Review.
of 201 file on U.S. Citizen," being a form employed in a review conducted
in 1975 of al] 201 files involving U.S. citizens to determine whether
they should be destroyed or whether they could be retained because of -
counter-intelligence interests. This file was categorized for retention
because he was‘a subject of possible interest in the assassination
investigation. The date 1975, apparently questioned by the editor, is
correct. w)

Same page, at bottom and commencing over to next page. The
reference to FBI activities re Lopez does not change the reservations about
publishing his name. That the FBI did conduct an extensive
investigation of the man's background in the U.S. is quite clear, even if
the reporting basis for an investigation was dubious. CU)

Page 7. The name of Lopez's cousin should be deleted. Listing it

would permit eventual identification of Lopez. C¢ )

 
og. 10%149-10006

 

 

’

 

Mr. G. Robert Blakey
Chief Counsel and Director
Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515
Dear Mr. Blakey:
Forwarded herewith are comments on draft reports forwarded
by you recently. (vo) .
These first of those covered in this letter is entitled Cuban-American.
It is understood that this is intended for unclassified publication.
Our comments will indicate sanitization modifications in the text, as
well as corrections of fact. Cc) : =
Similar euphemisms as are suggested in the draft on the Alvarado
case should: be ‘employed. Similarly, reference to LITEMPO should be deleted
where it appears. The LIFIRE reference should also be deleted, as it
represents a unilateral operational capability of CIA; a general reference
to a sensitive source should suffice. c)
The name of the subject of the discussion, Lopez, should be deleted,
and a general reference to the Cuban-American should suffice. (c ) |
Page 3. Agree with the indicated deletions referring to operational
and liaison sources and activities. Reference to photography of the
Cuban-American should be deleted; it comes from a liaison source, which
Liaison would recognize in the draft (page 4, as well). Cc )

Page 4. Agree with indicated deletions, in addition to those

noted above. Co)

 
74-0000

 

 

Page 10. The comment at the bottom of this page, describing as
"egregious" CIA's not reporting the man to the Warren Commission,
represents a misunderstanding of the handling of reports, as. well as the
relationships during the investigation. The report that might be seen |
by some as suggesting that the man had some significance was, on its
face, a very poor report. It was inaccurate in néarly every significant
fact. It is customary for intelligence analysts to evaluate reports
on a continuing basis, and the downplaying of this one was--and remains--
a proper professional judgment. In this case, the report routinely was
forwarded to the FBI, with its primary responsibility for conducting the
field investigation. The Bureau did just that. However, the judgment of
the Committee is for it to express, however overstated and however weakly based(y

Page 11. The draft report errs in relating the treatment in the CIA
Task Force Report in 1977. That study pointed out the errors in the Monterrey
report about Lopez, and the bearing that this had on the valuation placed on
the report. The Senate report never did focus on these basic flaws, and
selected those elements of it that fit the working thesis of the staff. The
critical evaluation of the Monterrey report seems valid to this date. The
present Committee draft accepts the undiscriminating and imprecise treatment
of Book V of the Senate report, without undertaking consideration of all the
information available. The selected quotation in the Task Force Report should

be read in its entire context. (u)
 

 

  

Page 13. Reference to a Mexican police source should be deleted. Ce)

Page 13. The HSCA may feel there are sinister implications on this
matter, but that is based on the interpretations of the Committee and not on
the facts.CV )

Same page. Observations about “documented instances where the CIA
decided to forego passing information...out of a desire to not lay bare
extremely sensitive sources of intelligence...." reflect an attitude on
the part of the staff investigators that may be shared by the Committee.
However, it is doubted that a good case can be made for this. For instance,
an attempt was made to so describe reporting on telephone conversations,
based on a memorandum by Mr. Slawson in April 1964. It was clear that the
substance was reported, if the source--as distinguished from the information--
was not disclosed on the record. We provided you with information showing *
that Mr. Helms discussed this with Mr. Rankin in mid-January 1964 and that.
the basic information was provided a couple of weeks later, still in January.
A perusal of that correspondence indicates that Mr. Rankin knew the source

as well as the information, in it. The erroneous Slawson memorandum appears

‘to be the main "documentation" for the statement in the draft. In any event

it is customary in intelligence reporting to provide the information with a
source evaluation, without specifying the surcés’ (s) |

In the present case, the Monterrey report was a very suspect, on its face.
It was passed to the FBI for inquiry, which seems to have concluded in

demonstrating just that. cc)
