74-00000

  

7s oe (omma)13860
. : : . : 3 October 1958
Pave Two

very little, if any, new information could ever be expected to
come out of her own recollection of incidents in the past. If the
project is approved, however, the QyuPAniean have promised to give...’
full support to it in the form of suggestions?! briefings of her
on persons who should be contacted, background information, and
. suggestions. for likely subjects to be contacted outside of (liolland)
- Where appropriate. : ; . “

 

jack tong

: [Jack T. Fagg

“1 October 1958shna

 

 
[toaoras-toodg]

 

 

 

“iN

 

 

 

ve ‘SUBJECT: GENERAL ts

 

RINE, 51-28 A

   

 

~ AD). ey
~ DISPATCH no( iia) 13869 ___
i Page Has. File No. opis .
eR rR - | Field File’ Hos 20-21
coe . . : CLASSIFICATION . 7 Ll.
. TO a : chet, WE os : - 7 DATE: : A Ostober 1958 ;
oS ‘Attn: Robert A. Winnett (3-3
_ FROM: Chie of Station, e Hague IG-£ ; INFO: “cos , Germany)
ao a Attn: Edward.

 

  
  
 
 
 

 

 

-( smieiem) he oe a . 4 Pe P. Lavell ~

_ SPECIFIC Fede MASSING ©

is

RENRINGE 2 | (area 13764, 19 ‘September 1958

a. le Subject arrived with lavell, from Frankfurt on 1 sche ule and |
_ contacted Fagg and Meppiel who arranged for a meeting with/(SYuPA- o of. we
* THIZER/SO)on 25 September and a neeting menGneamna on!
26. September. ? :
: ‘26 MASSING and eR outlined their’ plans for the research - :
project which is mentioned in reference correspondence. and which ‘will
: apparently be the subject of discussion in Headquarters when Mrs...
WASSING is in Washington in the near future. - The GYsdPATLIAER re
_Gussed in some detail fe possibilities of acquiring inforaation of
‘interest to them in thi ‘GYCHRONY) project by using this research
-.? project as a vehicle for making contacts with persons in(tiollana) va
whom. they have not been able to contact directly with_any hope of.
success. Most of these individuals mentioned by the SYupaTHIahRs)o/.
-are-some of the well-known subjects of (SYNCHRONY )cased presently
living in Gollandy| although a few prominent” ex-communists were added »
to assist Hrs. MASSING in.getting the interviewing started in

a Gollana) if her project is approved. . ;

. Ov
Be Opens and — ds, at clear that this project would
appear, to them to be one which would have a scope beyond that of .§  .)
present @YiPATHIZER yinterest and that although the (SYMPaATiTAERs )o/

. would be pleased to capitalize upon it for what success it would

bring within the somewhat limited number of individuals to whom

 

 

 

Bet it would give access, the whole project comprising interviewing

done in other countries as well as (Holland as it appears to be
planned would have to be accepted by Washington as of interest to |
Washington in itself. Thus, although the project is of interest
to the (GTMPATHLAEN ES as: + be sold on that basis alonee
at “e aaa
ee 8/50 oi e the opportunity which they have
had to * speak to lirs. MASSING in person, although it is evident that

Roj- 4

 

pany ae) iy .

7 ogecc
4 car

CLASSIFICATION

 
