 

 

 

 

 

 

9

 

 
 

 

DISPATCH | 2

ror

4 |4030

 

 

 

 

Ted dbgeitray oi RO"

    
 

 

 

 

 

     

 

ve) :
. Chier, *E .
9 ° a. ms . 20L=15 9156
Chief, SE :
FROM — .
Cnief ef staticn . .
SUGRCT ~ —_ . 7
RELCAP/LCIMPLGYE = Procuring of Fraale . re
Conpanicaship for Gricorly Ye. GOWE Tne NOELING teauieto™
ACTON Seauier® : . INDELING CAN Bf U0GED
. BY GUALHHED HQ DES! OMIT

FYI

PP" (opek|s067, Ls august 1959

ree
tex $3
om

UL
le By reference dispatch we mentioned an intriguing turn of events

“4n the Costille/Golub relationship concerning the latter's recuest for

Costille tc fix hin up with 2 girl, However, we would first like to bring
you completely up to date on our contact with Golub. We have recently been
having-a-number of consular matters which we havedealt with through Golube
A nusber of Americans have been calling at the U. S. Rabassy who have not
previously applied for Soviet visas and express 2 desire to travel to the
USSR. Costille has been referring these Americans directly to Golub at the
Soviet Rabassy, a8 Golub once told Costille that he had the authority to ,
grant visas without prior approval fren Moscow, As long es the Anericans
had made travel arrangeménts through a locel travel bureau, as well as hotel
reservations, he stated he had ne objections in civing them o visa ina :
matter of minutes, We have had four occasions to try Golub out in this -
matter, and ao far he has fulfilled his promise. Golub. on 3, August invited
Costille for drinks in’a local bar, and Costille asked him again if he was
still. willing to continue handling the Americans that he referred to Golub
at the Soviet Consulate. Golub stated that he was because he was interested
in having Americans visit the Soviet Union, Hand besides," he added, “*eince
you are allowing Khrushchev to visit the U. Se, there is no reason why I
can't let ordinary Arericans come to the. USSR.” Golub then began asking
about the official functions of an American Consulate and began comparing his
duites with ours.. When he listed his typical duties, he added that it was |
his responsibility as a Soviet Consul to hendle Soviet defectors who cane to
Finlend. Golub mentioned that he had just returned from one of hie more un~
pleasant duties cf recovering the body: of a Soviet sailor, who had sone berserk
and had shot and killed a nuzber of SOviet citizens on an island off the ccast
of Estonia, stole a small rotor launch and headed for Finlend, His body was
found in the sea by a Finnish fishermen near the Finnish islend of Mustal.avgenen
with a Finnish life jacket on. (This was reported in most of the Finnish
newspapers.) Fvidently, the Soviet had attempted to swim for it tnd drowned.
Golub stated that he had to go to this island, recover the body and bring it
back to Helsinki where it was ‘put into 2 mortuary, The cause of death was
definitely drowning. The body only had a Finnish life jacket and a pair of
awirming trunks on. They later found the motor boat, but the motor was gone
and there was nothing in the boat. Later a Soviet destreyer came to Helsintd
to retrieve the body, It was evidently Golub's responsibility to make all
of these errengenents. Golub stated on this evening that he would like to

“make @ call on the U. S. Consulate sometime, Costille said that he was weleame

at any tine, The next morning Golub phoned Cestille to say he would like to
yayer cone over, He arrived carrying a number of Soviet visa and other forms,
He rezained in the Censulate for about an hour and asked many questions, as

to consulsr duties and U.S. citizenship. He departed inviting Costille to
pay a similar call on him et the Soviet Consulate, The next day Costille
phoned Golub to ask if he =fght come over te see the Soviet Consulate. We
alse wanted to introduce te Golub an Enbassy employee, Edward berg, who is

in Helsinki through the sumer froa the U,. S, Exbassy in Feris on TRY for the
purpose of helping the Embassy with the nunber of VIP and other American
tourists going to the U.S. fair in Moscow. Since he has alse been handling
seme visa probiecs, we wanted hin to meet Gelub, Golub welcomed Costille

and Serg at the Seviet Consulate eni teok them inte his office where the three
chatted fer abcut 20 minutes. Costille clso had with hin the vises of tro
Anericen women whe wanted to spend one more day in the Soviet Union and to
take the train rather than fly. “Gelub made the necessary changes cn trelr
viaas without a question. At this time Golub invited Ccestille and Ferg to

have lunch with him on 10 august.
carver er oo [rt - . S/8R

GE Pere ENO
Bea cee L
aa . ConToatD

ee A0F COREE

 
RETURN TO CIA ..

‘[rod-torTa-t0zad] sme . ae _ Background Use Only
. re me 8 enn Do Not Reproduce
a : . o ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ry
: f NOTE te to ebeence of comment oe ondreten of ectcn
token thr conge ahpot wil te destroyed whew thy

 

 

 

~

 

 

, os
aike® |
wet

FHw a 937 aut! “op

 

 

 

eNcLOsuAE : | agstracr
Pree ; cocumast cate se erry ; . be
. Shen fae onee9 ; 4
~ ro - j
Bae ggg wa OE SECRET 1, meme tt

ea Rost deck
14-00000

 

 

 

{ . CONTING ATION OF
Disparcn

 

 

    
 
  
   
 

 

 

    

reported 4a reference tise

   
     

     

 

2. Significant detatis of Uiia hi
gatch, ceisd toid eo very lew 3 “is tire aske-t Cortille to
fix h& with a date, Cestilie asked ! was sericus, oinee he wat
ed that it mide ro difference

   

 
 
   

to Wwlub duct lauyhed and rerperm
lle expressed amazesent the “ no Finnish girls since
veurn, However, celut ciaired that he knew none
eae m Would try and ¢ive Golub a phene call later, Arrcnge-
’ ety ments were made fer Saturday evening, L$ August, In the ‘Reantine Sallmark
oe had nentioned be VALINK/6 about this eresting event, ani the latter said
x that he Krew a :cod FinnfSh girl who wrked for = local docter that was
trustworthy and could hendle the situation er nine is being forwarted under
_ Separate siver as Identity, On Friday evening, Cestille contacted Iden to
briefly explaia whrt she snculd expect. Iden is about 31 years old, extrenely
“attractive, well dressed, speaks both Finnish and English, and reened very
coorerative. we told her thet Golub wag the Soviet. Consul, a personal friend
of Costilie's, ‘unhaprily married with his wife who wes in Moscow, and that
he had recuested a date, She mentioned that it scunded interesting and that
she would be ready for anything. We told her nothing about any operational
interest in Golub but mentioned we would like to keep posted on the relation=
ship, However, we Stressed that as far as Golub was concerned Iden and
Costille had known each other before and had dated. She unterstood this
completely. Our only reservations ebout Iden was that she is far from an
@intellectual® and hes a rather silly gisele. There would be only one reason
why Golub would be interested in Iden, and this would not be for her minds

   

 

      

 
 
 
 

   

Sy Costille state.

   

  
 

       

 

   
     

  

   
   
       
   
    
    
   
      
      
      
    

3, The evening was <& dinner dsncing at 2 local night spot. Also
attending were Subject ot[ ort 2918, Berg and another American teaching school
in Helsinki. Golub seemed” to enjoy himself trenendously, was clways at ease,
but preferred Costille's date to his own, He peid very little attention to
Iden, although he wos pleasant to her; he only talked at length with her when
he felt it necessary to be polite. Golub danced with all the girls ond
appeared to be a passable dancer, A nicht club photographer was asked to teke
a photo ef Golub with his dete while dencing. The picture turned out with a
profile stot (however recognizable) of Golub, but unfertunutely hic date's
face was cozpletely hidden, Golub was not aware of this photo, (The original
we are keeping in cur files but have atteched a thermofax copy.) The ad

conversation worth reporting was ‘that GSst Be asked Subject of GFHa]2918,
she would be willing to teach some

who is a teacher of English in Helsinki, if
Soviet dirlomats English, ‘Sho agreed, but nothing more has been heard cn thie
score. Gelub then requested that we continua the evening in his apartment
listening to Russian music and drinking cognac. The grcup remained there for _
about tue hours, Again Golub paid mcre attention to Subject of [OFH¥\2018 and C
ignored his own date. When Costille mentioned it was time to leave, the girls -
excused thesselves to go to the ladies room. Fhen they had left the room,
Golub came up to Costille and asked if he could go home with Iden. Costille
responded that this was rot up to him and told Golub to ask the girl. Costille
asked him why he just didn't ask her to stay in his apartment for the night.
Golub answered that ke preferred te go to her ‘aparizent. He then went to ask
Iden if he could go home with her. However, Golub tade the group good bye

at the cer decr cm went back upstairs to his apartzent. Later Costille asked
Iden whet had happened when Golub made the Fropesiticn, Iden, who was a Little
miffed at his ignoring her, stated that she was & little tired but told him

he could phone her the following week, Since thet avening he has phoned her
twice but has not hed the opportunity te see her. Golub also premised to

invite Costille ard Subject of [oFai }2918 to his apartrent, later on to hear

some more Fussian rusic. 22

          
    

   

   
    
    
    
      
    
 

  

   
       
      
 
     
       
 
      
     
   
      
    
      
    
   

4. We will keep you posted cn Colut's relationship with Iden. uring
the evening Celub id not once appear to be nervous or eubarrassed. about being
seen out in public with someone besides his. wiles :

/

 
 
     

 

‘*
ra ae Oe

at Olde ge Spe
Willies Le Gostilte

 

 

       

Enclosures = [den Uisece
Faote

   
    

Districutien

   

 

 
 

oy
PMY ee NS
a ME CERNE

 
 
    

74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

> ’ ar res
coe PATON OF | i G cohaent to
iA &OSO
i Ident (ert &. von Pleandt
' Heoub. f10~-7-26\ . °
: . Seikainen, Pinland

° e

t
i

i! '
‘
i
i
t
i
:
i
: ‘
1
.

A asad ee Pete at reetiogs CLAS POR AOre i z
sen ccty roe ;

ty S30 tae aa noun Chk

« rene at OORT . OTR
