 

 

ES
tT
cal

    
  

 

mention.

- Salient featire. of ‘file. is that rociioy ‘was, never the object of xx .
consistent “concentrated attention by anyone. There is. virSuelly no--
Yéporting: on the LICOZY/S==LOGINOV relationship. What thero is inplies.
that WS 3 is uncooverative and nearly refuses to work with Le

   

  

SUNMARY Lo oy 7 : Le aan i
; SUSCEPSTBILY TY. Nothing in the cnventional. sense. Ie he “te inying +e .
“tell us anything he is, obviously. -trying,-to get: our: attention via’ acl” i
ploy with the intention. of bringing us to hin! oves with’ confidence eo
and noarsinpunttye “certainly not like ons 1 “be. in: trouble. “a

‘ PROFESSICANLISH! Not! ‘smooth and subtle nor. particularly secitre. “Hut :
crafty, fast-on his feat, inkés fast ‘decisions aid thén scts om ‘them.
Aggressive and ubiquitous. Socially actives Wonsit-chaser." .

   

  
    

 

  

“Pensoinares See above.

Should be Jeaving before another year and chechalt. Has been thera: for
: threa and one-half _Year'se on A os .

 

See other similar cages, a A [ o LS

 

   

|
|

  
 

104-10173-10097

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  

Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINCY (201-2852)
'. 83 December 1927 ul Yrs old Born Moscow,

th

 

 

   

hag,peen ‘described ‘as flicnt vith hardly any aa His 2 srelish 3 is fate
s studyingitnow, > . oe

In March 1966, xX Licoay/s was told te would be handtea in the future. vy
Le. foo4

 

“In response to Lis. clain that a radio had been stolen from him, a policeman
‘gas. sent to his. aprtment, and L. ended the conversation by reéruiting the.
policeman: at the rate of 5000 Pesos per month. The policeman reported - -the
“Aicident. and the VMetropoliten Disthict Police sanctioned a D/A OD. The. :

first and only recordéd récuirément. given the policeman’ by: L was: for sare
lo data’ onfVenezuelan who- spent, time in USSR. | . .

Lis friendly with YATSKOV, replaced ‘hin {he élains) as Consul General, (0966)

: Shortly after ‘arab-Israela War L tacitly uirnan admitted he believed that

Eeypt's al arges of us . involvement on Erael's peer) side were false. eA ~~
* Sy. Ah» Se Oke , : .
Then’ chores the. the. one about Migs. Elizabeth Duncan wiide. L told her that he Ashe.

_ was_ready to "go to the otter side". He stated: ‘that he was afraid because

the phones in both U.S.. and Seviet ‘Embassies were bugged. He asked if shé
would go to U.S. Embassy with ys “She consented and reporting stone

  
 
  

a hotel where a mec ting with: “obly, ‘DRUSS wastho. have taken. place
cone” night 2893 taking pictures with an 8mm camera. “BARANCT ds a Soviet techs

i

L pursued ‘ANSLOICH/3,. daughter of a arent, both in Yavana and in ~

 

 

 

 

- Moscow, ‘Yis intentions AOGHE were icin, but could have. been romantically Tote

TOR inclined: ‘rather than professional. :
Lis an ar “ragsive personality. with his fellow workers he’ is dictatorial

“and disdainfui. He has been known’ to GX return to the. Embassy thoroughly’

gassed, yelling. and shouting and resulting in an altercation ‘with the guard

on duty. Other times he won't finish one drink. He is chauvinistic XHHX to his
ow race and deprecatory to other nationalities. A sneering at'itude, boisterous
and arrogant at times, He can be gentle at othertimes, has frequently labeled
intelligent sEKUXRZHEX He is definitely crafty, :although not particulary subtle.

- works fast, dcesn't appear to try hard at cloaking his true intentions, either

in conversation with others or in a reeruitment atternt. de is tough as nails.
His build is athletic, his avcearance is rugzedly handsome. He apoears:
confident, self-assured in relations with non-Soviets.

Def DFS F/R

 
