 

€
a) .
°. [ere ma & letler postrrarked Monte Carlo and weitten
: by Pedro Fatr nthe lefter Catrada sald that }eron (s the only one of
_ the Peroniota fe. who opposes. the Cubans. However, since he {s out- —
‘nimbered he bas agreed to élly.Bimech{ with Castro. Estrada said that this

- ‘ta formation: came from Porfirio. tbirosa, who he had seen recently in Moate |
Carlo at the reeta es] Piro: and kublroea said that he had been working on Peros

  

   
 
 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  

aid be wished to ‘give me some advice, That

‘yj being that under BO. elreumstinces should: leaders of tha FRD «stablieh them-
Wy r 4

Ls the proper ilme
Be Jalled; thei:

5.
active, hae &@ great.deal of mone

  

7

 

id the Cuban intelligence service in Washington:
ed operates in Vaehington under the
direction of Earique Rodrigues’ ‘Loeches, Secretary of the. Cuban Embassy ia
shingtoa;. aod: Commander Jose Moleon, Cabaa Military ‘Attache. This led
ity © volunteer the naine of the persona twhorn he said was In charge of
atican ntelligesce is ‘Washington. | He said {t io Magr. Plo saght, who ie -
a keown as the auditor.for the apostelic delegation and who has served weveral

years tu Latin America, * - : : ‘ 5.

6 1 wondered what ulterior motive, if 2a fn agking to cee
zn@ 80 urgeatly to pass “on the abeve, and tried todo a little probing, As far-
asl could see, U he bad.on ulterior motive, it was a suggestion be made that

. the appropriate Cuban exiles do more broadcasting and give more recy a
. to the wrongs of the Castra regime. I asked him how’ this could be done, aad
, + Be said that one way tt could be done. waa'by using. his newonere mre Oo

Ee -Me seid that at préseat he sends anywhere from four hundred to
weaty-live ‘hundred copies ofthe newepaper dally tc Havanese, depending upoe
the particular publication and that he could etart having editorials published

which would be unpalatable 20 Castro aid: co would undoubtedly cause the 0

 
 

   

»

 

 

 

Cabana Goverment to praotibit the entry of thi into Cuba. Then the
Or ould ctart broadcasting from Miam| fnto: a and say that these
casts were being payed for by” “‘preminent.c Gaba exiles.

 

 
 

 

 

104-10171-10207

 

 

“although Mexico could take & at

_ racensly tha

Af the trend continues, Lasaro Cardenas, will in a short time

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

fb
: yt

Ib Aaguat 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : .
0 02

1p heme, Late

 

    

 

SUBJECT: Meeting with
oe afternoon of

 

August.”

  

Oo
Lo ante he bad recently returned from a ten day vislt to Mexico
City: Sad visited with Foreign Minister Manuel iellc, Tello said that
will be ina very difficult position st the coming O45 meeting. That
¢ & atFong stand agalast Cuba it will not do so.
That Mexico would only go so far as to say that solidarity in the Western
Hamisphere is eseentiag that the couctries in Latia America should be aware
of the Commualst dangete that intervention te a serious danger and that the

O«S taka whatever action tt.can when necessary in oder to avoid a country

{rom tatervening in the affeirs of another. a he then told Tetlo D5
that Caba could aot be overlooked as it was & serious problem, Tello countered
by saying that the Cubaa aituation acd Domliwican question ebould not be confused
is the over-all panorama, Farther, that the businegs lateresis of the United
States tn Cuba were not a proper matter of diacussion.at the OsS but that this -
problem should be presented before the lntereational Court at ihe Hague a3

the CAS ts net set up to handle auch probléms. Tello said that {t would be &
mistake for the Galted States to refer to the Caracas regolutics on Communtam
inthe O.:5. Tello sald. that the cituation in Mexico has changed 60 much :
at-he himaclf ie in.aanger because he is considered as too much of

@ middle of the-roader, and is looking for an assigament os an Ambassador —
broad so he can leave the country. aid that bis impréasions of © O5
Mexico oa this trip wore that in the Tac ‘tive dayo: Leper Mateos bas lost

gonaiderable groead and that General Lacaro Cardenas ie getting stronger and
sormerge &8 the

  
 

 

atrong man tn Mexico,

ald that Argentine Ambassador to the United States,

2.
del Garriltold bim previous to jeaving for dank rancieco that segeating is
watching Cuba oaly'in as owch asthe Cuban situation affects Argentins .

because of the presence in. Cubs of certain well keown berunistas and also
Che Guevara, Osl Carril added that the general over-all Cuban problem
is viewed by ‘rgeatioa with the same coolness which tha’ United states deals

with the problen: of Antarctica.

 

6/68

 
 

 

' WO CI 955 (fies How
| EWUDENT ON VA
) Dacument,  £ om Sue |
- \T feu, Z pot iT
! ECpET 1 DER

as SE

es RECF 4, fet olig. Chea!

 

 

 
 

. . \ Po,
i} c a

said be was teaving for New: York the morning of I August, ..
an wo) return Saturday. In Mlaot he.could be reached af :
be ¢ TUnede Ubaguirre ‘also said that be hoped to ba in
ne X rie Rica | “dartag the oas ‘co ference. . .

  

-_

com dENT3 ha nya aling with, over the past iwo years aad

; at, to the best of my knowledge be has
Stace he has numerous, well-placed

circles i think it would be to :

ik he goes to. Sans

  
           
  

 

: i contacts ‘ia: Latin, ime fie
0 “benefit te have’ i

 

 

Kedolpb E..Gomes
: Depaty Chief —
_ Westera Hemisphere Division

 

H/Rk
