74-0000

«2+ ee i -

money already in Cuba - dollars would be delivered to owners of the pesos who , '
axe in Miami). I told him I would call him in the morning to let him know how |

things Stood.

4. Udiecuased our meeting with CISNERCS with Tracy Barnes on the
morning of 2 June. k was Tracy's opinion, in which I heartily concur, that
we should put out no money whatsoever until we have had a chance to ecamine
Manolo's plan and to study just what repercussions or ran:ifications there
would be, policy-wise and otherwise, to a decision to aseiet the {RP
enilaterally; that is, outside the Council and presumably without MIRO's
knowledge or consent. Since RAY has withdrawn hia grous from the Council
with a great deal of fanfare, it is ost unlikely that MIRG would look kindly
on any assistence to RAY, especially since he feels he hae a rather firm :
promise from the President to deal oaly through MIRO. 1

wa

5. RAY, upon arrival in Washington, will presumably take his slan (along .
with BETANCOURT) directly to Mr. Goodwin and I would also presume that :
Goodwin will pase it down to Tracy and Tsacy to us. Ray DuBois, who has
been Manolo's case officer, is standing by in the evens he should be needed,

6. Upersonally feel very atroagly thet we should do nothing to gusport the ~~
1} plan, whatever it is, until we have received from the White House and the i
Department clear-cut, unequivocal policy guidance on the overall pian. Taleo . i
fee) that now is the time, if we are going to support the MRP unilaterally, to :
insert a non-official cut out into the operation, | would recommend that con-

; olderation Le given to using Mr. harry Pieper (2 SAVE contract employee) i
: SBihis jos. Harry is iampersieaially sulivd, nas a good business head, is :
‘ fluent in Spanieh (lived <8 years in Cuba), is cleared, follows directions, :

: completely honest and tremendously conscientious.. I would be harder to 4
‘ find a better person.

! 7 Also, 1 would like to point out the security risks inherent in acy arrange-
mente with the RAY-BETANCOURT-CISNEROS trio. These fellows have had
easy accese to the White House and to the Depart=.ent, are notorious jor their

Planned leaks «, will probably presume all the Department officials they deal :

“with are privy to the arrangement, and before we know it the whole exile “t

community will be well aware that we are providing financial and material : i
@upport to the RAY group. 1am not arguing agains: providing such support,

_but am merely potating out the real posential for emoarrassment to us if the

‘matter is not handled with the greatest of precautions, I feet they have become

too clogely Identified with U.S, -offictaldom, tnciuding ruyself, and that the ao i-

plausible denial aspects, to date at least, are almost non-ealetant, . i

 

2

 

~ ee: A/DDPIA
DC/ WHS

 

fae 8 heme awed ode

aoe oman nelig none «

 
 

 

104-10165-10039

< June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD !

“EUBJECT: Relations with Manolo RAY and the HRP

1. For background see my memorandum of ld May !96l, rezorting on
may long session with Manolo RAY, Rogelio CISNEROS (Eugenio) and Ernesto
BETANCOURT. Aa will be noted in that memorandum, Manolo promined to ‘
come up with ®@ prospectus within approximately ten days’ time, after con- :
a@ulting with bis leaders in Cuba.

2 Oni June 1961 Mr. Barnes called me to say that 34r. Goodwin had
been visited by hur. Ernsato BETANCOURT wao asked for immediate fipanctal - °
support for Certain activities of the MRF which would run around $1), 63v
1 dollare. dr. Barnes asked me to contact BETANCOURT for the puzose of
. aecertalning whag the funds were to be used for, exactly how much needed, etc.
i I called BETANCOURY and he tald me that I snould get these details from :
: CISNEROS (Eugenio), who was staying at room 549 at the washington Hotel,
I called Eugealo aad made a daie for me and Ray Dubsis (Ray Adams ta ihe
name he uses with Key and Cisneros) to call upon him. ‘We called on CISNEROS
at approximately 1845 hours i June, and he informed us chat he had urgent
meed for pesos for use in wupport of hia sabotage and underground activities
ia Cuba. He said his zeople were absolutely witout funds, aseded money for
living expenses, transportation, purchane of sehotage equipment, sir faves fer .
courlers, and for assisting peogle to get out of prison, He said that it was
now possible lor people to buy their way our of prison by bribiag ane of the
i mozay ‘coomcanist lawyers and judses. He thought that 4u, CGU or 60, vst
: would meet immediate needs and that some sort of arrangement should be made
aan te receive funds ~ 3¢,699 monthly or thereaboute - on a Gned and permaneng
i basie. .

eee a ee Te os She, CoD mee

  

a _ 3. We made no commitment to Eugenlo other than to say that we would

pass bis plea along to the interested people, 1 rem:inded him that we had aaked
him and Manolo to prezare a pian for consideration and that we were stil
waiting for thet plen, I said I personally doubted that enything could be done:

_wntil the plan was recaived from RAY. He said Manolo was planning to come to
Washington on the afternoon of ¢ June with the plan, but that he himself was i
having to return to Miami immediately and it was vital he be able totakethe =
money with him, arrange in Ailami for purchase of the pesos {at rate of i alo i

 

rare

 

‘
+ netintsdentermbstblen be atase

ot RETURNTO chy
Li . Background Use Only
las - , Do Not meee

. “te

eo
