 
  

 

0

saya that © ACY, 7 CAL ant ‘4 '" sees to Se maintataian the majority of

eaiteots wits netlears., Goro tine evo wy at iez quarters wincered Lf SUALOVUUE

ibe Se piss sts ayeclalice dn anerfces cuntae(s, sinew he wag the one who took
0 ob oece the [Ti¢ ra-plcontacte dat 2.01) nag ment coasioeradia tine tn the Un tee eg

 

    

  

  

Fresaices, Th mirat be interestivg to see whether efter awiile he turns over
the Cort! lie ‘eestart to posertee elre, each aa “itor “atraverteh © “il, to wie
he hag ittret ent (ats tee [mn this enntert, tt ia intereattus te eons{: J
‘misao? rereart reeelves a9 an ate achtent 19 “Se 7, In this report, © tible,

   

 

   
       

 
 
 

 
 
   

 

   

 

     

States, 90 be sient de fsoaething oF a apericas secialists: tutte

   

: Se TR da dil ttoult to say 4, feliowir fa relevant or mot, but we
were interexte. tors. a recent|: Grentaje\ts-aten congercing @ laeaco. in=
wolvias @.{ “s Ser an’ two knowa~ 78 atiicerea, 4¢ thie Inncheea the suspect (1
Kesiseot in lercark allese:! that one ort éf every taree Asorfean visitors: to the
wor ie escy. “ere we have the sagpect io. bent~cats in two Jean: lnavian.countr¢a
eimaltancoasly ecoresring the samo thoes'ts to ax! about Americans, +e realize

that ome shoalents try to maxe too mee” oct of these col-eicences, but it is worth
moting that ia ‘emark the \/. 2eal¢est has mudsoqueatly turned over the contact
with the a3 officer to on uterling at the ease tine that 0 - 'S de Latroweing

Costille to PAL who in tern, on the contacts. Ne plan to paint eat 7
tala colmrtésare to td [. 62 . :

6. Te ot back to the case in point: The pstiers off /€'s contacts with
CM"R gagregts that the Letter bes gpotted ‘axd ta is the brsbese of acrereings and
ealtivating 2/*o7It aay be that FLT fs trying to involve A{5 in a romantic rea 02
Lationetip In which grotional centrol covid he evercises, it 4a quite une
lswely that this shrew’ Inte!lipence covrater “likes her fer hoy mins", 1% would
also even that the “ovieta have a contianing interest ta Costille ant assuning

Bhat they are avare. of at least comm of the Costillest/' contacts, they aay have

in piri reeralti Ge gt infornitian on foatille snd other beeriean tarretae
SLL gertataly azseare te be tryin to ref ay” on the *hock’, be it Tor herself

er toget iafarnation oa the AlN, or mothe v2 :

To Comtilie saya he has never bern econ with ; and that all contact with
hew bas been tel: in bis aparternt or care Nowerety’ 1¢ a-pears quite rcesthle
that their weet tings hav: been obgerved, if the 2iS had an inclination to do e0,
and {U say wall be that O17 de aware of the contact. It is requested that
Castille adrise Neecyeapters, for record: parpcnes, en tothe meane of contect
ex; loyed by bia anf iXsn¢ telannone, seeting pians for @ certain cay cfesch week -
ey alternate days, . Line, dows she cong uneccomanied to bis murt-ent at or
does he eset fer at a designated rlace, what ie tre sieal hour {(deylichtor cark),
duration ef visits if aretin; ig in hic car, where co thay meet, co they crive :
around, where d.es he drop her of f? All of this eoa'd be earvaliled by She Forieta,s | :

if they cere so inelinec. a Y

G. If oar suapicion is correct that “CL hal Af and Costille texted, fron'a

standneint it would be appropriate to . disccurace acy further contact Letveen Boe
a/6 amd COU, “e night feat eontimee to fish around for occasional items

ational intelliguire, end we sce nottinc tobe catved from the contarte [a75 [ axe
might bave encuch of a sense of aigazion to allew herealf tobe e706 on i ee
eouversation frou which HS ld derive sore teusfit than she or wee
wente to defect, 26 won't. [S's balp, wt he's orobahly teo eharp, at =
toe untutere’, for ve to be mew in @ contivuatiion of this rolationship.
Jt is paist, {¢ is gu-cested that Coetille himself be careful in bis ralations’.
wita OCLO) asd report indetell on all ened contacts.

         
   
   
   
      
     

 

   

  

         
 
    

io
i
a

t
oy
af

po

1

Hl

i

 
       
  
     
   
    

 

 
   
   
 

        
      
  

 

    
      
     
       
    
 

%_ “he BI S2I angle ecnearn ng Af" witl be covered in a eeverate Novatech,

xe

POULT? 7 SOAR TEER

     

(7/68
 

40472-10287

 

 

; Oe th

ce © was repertirg on har contact with OO to the 0.5.

  

 

  
 
  
 

i) :
“Te Npacqmmarteras comments have rives evtaideravle thousht te the
Coatilie/~" (ae aE JS eontacta, and we shall attemt te outline bolas

the gist of the isensue of Sptuten derived therefiro, 02.

OL Pe Putting ftret.t tings first, tt ix belteved that [iFhavay/<. freferred
hereafter) has dleplayed naivate to too great a “denres, beth po=
‘Litdes ind ‘esotionally ;-te-ve.-ersti tied to become aqy Yarther {involved in |
‘this Maison, : This, tocetber with-her expreascd'avereion to covert axtivity,—
could make for problems.in runndias: her as a penetration double agents | Cur
reasoning ja ‘as' follows. | 2. :

6
“Je The very fact thet , a wosAss facont), ant! COL, a mown RISaLe, ;
Ore ‘tm contact ‘with each » bas inplicatiins which warrant close scrutiny.
; While it may. be a bit tap early ‘to ponder the direction CLD %@ interest could
taxo, (1s CLL’ etiing Um a/s far recruiteant, or i@ he falling for her, gemm=
inely?) the following eo are offered {nthe knowledge that they are, by -
y C@lfeevicent. CCL has taken the intiative in maintaining contact.
Se "nich follows the not uncasren modus operandi of s gift, dinners,
govied, an eopeal to the intellect, lanwwage Lessons, and a little Maison

initiated bh the “silted busta roatine. ALL ef these contar Oo
revolved aroun AAS‘ a| apartment fines wp the question of theft smth

 

 

recamate, Tt would be to Un if alnative Finn, sharing an aparteent withd¥
an ean, wouldn't be suspicious of a Soviet coming to tha apartment: for

Language | ie phoning regularly, taking the Anerican out to dirner, theater,
too Perhans. Costille haa’ aircady satisfied himself on this point, vat Head-_

 

 

“quertara would apareciate being sesured of the roeeats} gtatue and relinbility.

some pertaining to the A/Sostille [it ma cn Tig trip to the %5),.the
. Hkelinood Chat OLS! contact. wi 6 the attention of the 7.S,
with Fesaltant inquiries ins me by v Coattiles ard ta the poortbiitiy
FEshaasy, |
SU may, voll ‘have iY- |
jetyne operationg. Ag

he COLU3 héacnade proveeative: remarks to be: oe a and Cestille, inelodi ng

 

 
  

the. thought has occurred to. the #tat{on|tha a
- Comtilie tatibed as an ATS offieer: aneci fing is 7

yoa. will recall, in a-coaple of instances TU hinted tof S ‘that he suspected ()?

that saxeone alse was payin tor her t rip to the IFLcP whet asked her te whor
did ‘ehe have -to:eccouat for her expenditure-, cams af the thince OUD might

1 to pain fron there ecatacts, assuring that. he ie epleious of both Cestille
an-indisation ef the .tyve of people ! rE ¥Y gence on AT SCIN
is thely backgrounda are and perhaps how they are snotted (@srey
whether they are.satudente of Soviet affairs, ar of the “ueslan languare, ete.),
_ what the beckyrounds are.of the AIS offtoare running the operations, anu related
weatters. It alght bo dewbtad that 3 - :plagelf is a evectalist in C" operations
against the AlS, @inge he, ac hs ‘heasuont would have broader ressenaibilitien.
However, be might well be interested tn “keeping nie bent in® and of maintaining
gone pereons}) gontaste with Arwricans in orcer tocet his om firgtehand imo

 

   

   

RETURN TO CIA

‘Background Use Only

eo Not Reproduce

      
     
     
   
   
   
   
       
     
       
         
       
       
     
           
     
      
 
 
     
    

 
