   

. ' Goanclusions

 

| 1. The sabotage program to date has been operationally
| ; successful and hes had salutary effects within and without Cuba.

| ; 2. If continued at its current pace and in the light of recent

! uf vente, the asbotage program in conjunction with our cther programs,
will aecomplish little more than delaying cansolidation of the Castro/
Communiet regime.

3. Mf the program is continued and the raids are permitted
to intensify in number and scape, there ie a reasonable chance of
accomplishing our origiral objectives. At the same time the riske
te the US will be increased.

 

4. Termination of this program will result in deterioration
of the remainder « a ‘ams and will permit
© consclidation ef the Castro regime at a more rapid pace than
would otherwise be possibile. Termination aleo might be interpreted
as a US policy decision to coexist with Castro, provided he docs not
deldly conduct subversive activities in Latin America.

      
  

&. There is insufficient experience on which to judge the
autonomous program. However, {t is unlikely that it will provide
& substitute for the raids performed under the CIA program either
in quantity or quality. ; .

 

| ; Joseph A, Califano, Jr.
} Assistant to the Deputy
| Secretary of Defense

. {Cuban Affaire)

DoclId:32424789 Page 9
  

GAmp
fy .
el. f

strengthen the Castro position in Cube, the hemisphere and the werld.
Theae developments include (a) the expected continuation of high sugar
prices (which enabled Cuba to expand its convertible currency reaerves
in 1963), (b} the Sovict/Cuben trade protocols of 1964, (c) the British
bus deal, which points to a break in Cuba's economic isolation, (d)

the recent rioting in Panama in which Castro had some hand, and (ce)
the Zanaibar coup with its attendant publicity for Castro whatever

his actual (avolvement,

: Hf in the aftermath of theee incidents the sabotage program is
ended, Castro will emerge with a major propaganda victory and a
greatly strengthened political base, In addition, it should be recog~
nined that such a decision would reduce the policy alternatives available
to the US, At the present time we have been pursuing @ policy track
designed to maintain maximum acceptable pressure against Castro,
thus playing for the breaks while developing a broad menu of contin-
gency plans which would enable us te capitalise on any fortuitous
situation. Discentinuation of the core of the CLA covert pregram will
tend to reduce further our current flexibility to ane of two broad policy
choices, Essentially these alternatives are to pursue at some point
in time a rapprochement with Castro or to rely on military force to
accomplish our objective. Other possibilities, such as the recognition
of the government in exile, seem remote at thie time and would require
some sort of sanction fer or support of sabotage activity against Cuba
if they were te be credible. ,
We do not have sufficient experience on which te judge the value
ef the autonomous programs. However, if they are terminated, a signi-
ficant antl-US reaction can be expected from the exile leadera. In the
event that it is decided to terminate only the ClA-contralled sabotage
operations, it should not be assumed that the autenamous groups, des-
pite the greater deniabllity of their actions, could take over entirely
the mission of furnishing proof af visible resistance te Castro and
inspiring dissident elements within Cuba to take the personal riske
neceesary to set a coup in motion. Autonomous groups are as yet
untested in their capability to conduct successful sabotage and harass-
ment operations on @ sustained basis. It ig urilikely that in the next
months the autonomous groups will develop the ability te match CLA.
controlled operations, either in quantity or quality.

DoclId:324247689 Page 6
   

Particularly if the raida are increased in number aad scape,
continuation of the CLA program ehould result in a corresponding
increaee in any favorable results mentioned earlier, Continuation
of the program should contribute to some degree to creating con-
ditions favorable to a coup or a spontaneous revolt, In addition,
sootinued raids could provoke Castro into taking the kind of action
that would justify and, under certain circumstances, perhaps even
require overt US military ection to topple his reginas.

The esbotage program is not witheut ite risks. To whatever

i extent the current United States/Soviet dialogue is relaxing tensions,

continuation of the program, particularly {f a future operation is

L compromised, could provide a basis for disruption of the diglogue.

! Also, while one of the objectives of the program is to reduce the

- level of Soviet forces in Cuba, it is possible that continuation af the

i raids (or any increase in the scope or intensity of raide) could result

i odin a stoppage of the Soviet force reduction or even en increase in
Soviet personnel in Guba,: Although some have suggested that there
ie a relationship between covert US pressure ageinst Cuba and the
‘export of Cuban-eupported insurgency in Latin America, we do not
belleve continsation of the program would affect Castro's subversive
activity in Latin America. Finally, and particularly if there 1a vo _
increase in the scope or number of raids, continuation of the pregrar,
may not achieve the originel objectives sought.

Termination of the Program.

There are two major factors to be considered in terminating
the program. One is the effect it would have on oUF progrems, our
allies and the Communist Bloc. The other ie the existence of accept-
able alternetivee which would accomplich our ultimate objectives,

The sabotage program is sufficiently interrelated with our
ether overt and covert programs directed against Cuba so that the
effect would be to reduce the impact of those programs. With respect _
to our allies, and particularly thoes Latin Americans who are
encouraged by the belief that we are condoning or supporting raide
against Cube, termination could discredit our recognized intent to
remove the Castro regime. This would be particalarly true in view
of developments which have occurred during the last few weeks to

DoclId:324247689 Page 7
 

! . _J A tormer Majer in the Guban rebel exay
i ceperted sitar hie Gllltration trent Cube te Secsary 1964 that the
4 25 December GiA Siguance raid (which Goniel Guwe t
i was & great boost te morals among disaffected Cubans.

: ; Castro's fear of rising diesidence and insurgency te refiected

i ; in his initistien of a variety of repressive measures.. These include

the forceful relocation of inhabitants from dissident areas and more

i- - stringent controla on freedom of movement within Cuba, Those

i meagures are bound to have adverse pelitical, peychological and
economic repercussions inside Guba.

Although the psychological impact of the CIA program on Cubs
: cannst be measured with precision, the following objectives eppear to
! have been accomplished, |

i | ae An atmosphere of uncertainty and uneasiness within
: : Cuba has been created with reapact to the regime's ability to control
dissident clementa in the population,

| & Opposition elements have been given a psychological
i heost.

c. The vaids revealed to the entire Cuban populace the
Uriltations of Guban defenses,

The reports of successfal raids against Cuka have apparently
reduced the sense of frustration within the exile community -- &
frustzation which forrserly manifested iteelf in vitriolic attacks by
exile leaders against tie US Government and its leadership. Although
the CIA raide are not directly attributable to the UB Government, most
astute exiles have concluded that the raide are CIA sponeored.

 

DoclId:324247689 Page 5
EVES ©

   

4
Effects on Gur Allies.

We are confident that the British are aware of some US

: support ef, or at least acquiescence in, the sabotage program.
Similarly, other sophisticated allies also probably have atrong
suspicions about US support of acquiescence, Itis reasonable

to believe that Gentral American countries, particularly Nicaragua
| and Coste Rica, have similar suspicions, The extent to which our
allies. believe we may be supporting or condoning such raids, is

; a significant indication of our intent to topple the Gastro zegime. .

et Within the United states.

 

 

_ Although US sponsorship of the sabotage program has been
credibly deniable, it seems clear that discerning elements in the US
such as experienced Washingtim reporters and congressmen, realize
that the US ta either sponsoring or permitting sabotage raids against
Cuba. This realization provides credible eviddnce that existing
programe are consistent with our publicly ennounced policy to replace
the Castro regime with one acceptable to the US,

Soviet Reactions

Despite the kelihood that Castro has provided the Soviets
with evidence of US sponsorship of sabotage operations against Guba,
Soviet reaction has been restrained. Aside from the usual props-

: ganda, we have knowledge ef only one sharp Soviet reaction to

i external raide. In September, following a serice of air raids by
Cuban exile groups for which the US Government had no responsi-
bility, the Soviet Union expressed its concern to the US Government.

Prospects for the Future
Continuation of the Program.

The six point cevert program is closely related to other on-
: going efforte which receive some impetus from it. These include
i programs for overt economic and diplomatic isolation, as well as
surveillance and other anti-subversion measures.

 

 

Docld:32424789 Page 6
Ss

    

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

SUBJECT: Appraisal of US Sabotage Program Against Cuba

In June 1963, higher authority approved a CIA covert program
against Cuba which consisted of six interrciated courees of sction:

L Cailection of intelligence to meet US national security
“requirements and support covert operations.

2. Propaganda actions to stimulate low-risk sabotage
and ether forms of active and passive resistance.

3. Economie dental scticas to support US economic
exploitation measures.

4. Exploitation and stimulation of disaffection in the
Cuban armed forces and other power centers of the regime.

5. General sabotage and harasament.

6. Support of autenemous anti-Castre Cuban cxile groups
to supplement and assist the US covert capability.

The ultimate objective of the program is “to encourage dissident
elements and other power centere af the regime to bring about the
eventual liquidation of the Castre/Communist entourage end the climi-
nation ef the Soviet presence fram Cuba." (Tab A} CIA set approxi-
mately 18 months from June 1963 aa the me frame within which these
‘objectives could be substantially realised. This tentative schedule was
based on the ‘sirnultancous, coordinated exccution of the individual
courses of action.” While this analysis is concerned with courses of
action 5 and 6, the interlocking nature of the covert program must be
kept in mind in appraising the sabotage program.

STATE DEPT. DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW
0) Retain class’a = Change to.

Declassify-in part-and excise as shown

C1 Dectassify, (7 afer.
IB be CD somsican Taw

© With concurrence of. {noty(obtained)

PSICRIR Dy 409 fee. Dat 7 : } 54

 

 

 

DoclId:32424789 Page 2
 

AGENCY -

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES”:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

‘DOCUMENT TYPE

“S..) CLASSIFICATION
. RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

Date
Page

_JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
Jcs

202-10001-10058
J-3.

: APPRAISAL...

01/24/64
8 oa
CUBA CONTINGENCY PLANNING

MEMORANDUM
TOP SECRET

— PosTPoWeb 4N PART :

01/09/98 roo.
Requires review from CIA, Gg ao Army.

NO JOINT: STAFF OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION

on CONCURRENGE OF

DATE:,

 

02/04/9¢
1
  

The intensity of the sabotage program has never reached the
level planned by CIA. Of 16 raids presented for approval, 10 were
: disapproved. Of the 8 raids approved, 3 were aborted due to apera-
tional problems and five were executed. Those five raids were
succeseful in the sense that (s) there was substantial damage to the
terget; (b) all participants were safely recovered; and {c) each was
plausibly deniable. (Sec Tab B for a brief description of raids.)
Any asseasment of the effectiveness af the pregram must be made
against « background of the operational succeas of the raida, the
discrepancy between the planned and actual levels of intensity and
the limited duration of the program.

f
In addition to the CIA controlled sabotage, there are two
autonomous groupes one is receiving substantial financial and logie-
tical support frem the US Government; the other is receiving only
~ relatively minor financial support. Both are entirely composed of
: Cubans, and with the exception of one or two individuals at the top
of cach of these groupe, no member of them realizes that they are
receiving US support. It is possible that one of these groups may
have conducted at least one raid, We do sot expect any significant
sabotage activity from these groups for at lenet another month and
probably longer. The purgoes of these programe ie to increase
internal sabotage rether than intensify external raiding,

: eal of CLA Sabotage rem.
Spontancous Internal Sabotage.

; We have not been able to determine any relationship between
: the CIA raids aad incidente of armed claches in Cuba. (Tab €) On
the other hand, while only 18 spontaneous acte of sabotage were
reported throughout Cuba from June through Ssptember 1963, there
: were 16 reports of. euch acts in October, 25 in November, and 12
- in December. (Tab D) Although incidents of spontaneous internal
i sabotage tend te be seasonal (they occurs more frequently during the
: winter monthe when there ie sugar cane to burnj, it ie reasauable
: to conchide that the increase during the latter part of 1963 ie in
: some measure attributable to the CIA raide in August, September,

Octeber and December,

Docld:324247869 Page 3
 

ue WILY

 

Turbulence Within Gaba.

' The swbotage program has had substantial impact on Cuban
military and security forces. Ax a result of these raids, certain
areas and ports were placed on special alert status; arders were
fesued to increase vigilance; and strict security measures were
inetitated at industrial and military installations throughout the
country. Air and eee searches were begun; navy and helicopter
patrole were expanded; and additional army patrols were ordered.
Air, naval and ground forve elements have been put on special
alert either on a local o¢ island-wide basis on at least $6 occasions
daring 1963 as a result of ramored or actual maritime operations.
Almost. contiuous anti-insurgency operations, involving up to
2506 men, have been conducted. -

 

Gastro expanded hie coast-watching network fram 46
observation posts at the end of June ta [63 at the and of October.
At least 10 surface search radar ctations have been eatablished
since June and there ia tentative evidence of T more. In August
i 1963, @ new internal security force, the Laichs Contra Pirates was
an formed in an attempt te cope with off-chore raiding perties. In
i September, new training courses were initiated for command
| cadres of “popular defense units, * designed to organise the peaple
i to defend thameclves against enemy attack and to protect industrial
i centers and installations fram sabstage. ;

From the foregoing, it is reasonable to conclude that exter-
nally mounted raids significantly contribute te turbulence within
Cuban military end security forces, with concomitant diversion of
badly needed funds, reesourtes and manpower.

 
 

” Latornal Morate , aie.
be There are firm indications that the GLA sabotage p a
|

 

 
 

 

 

DocEa doapd see Page poe a a eS pe rane
