 

    

_MM 137-1594 Siit-Section

prcf
million dollar’s worth of bonds, jewelry, and cash.
ROTHMAN was, indicted for aiding and abetting RABIN.
| Also arrested, and,out on bond on same charge of aiding
n and abetting ABIN was aforementioned SAMMY MANNARINO
| of Pittsburgh. ”) SAMMY is brother of GABRIEL "KELLY"
MANNARINO. GABRIEL was allegedly present at Apalachin
meeting..in Movember, 1957. Both MANNARINO brothers
were called before Senate Rackets Committee and invoked
Fifth Amendment. A trial has not yet been had in the
above: arrest ‘of ROTHMAN, ROTHMAN was also arrested
on March 27, 1959, and is awaiting trial as a. conspirator
ina Pittsburgh seven-count Grand Jury indictment growing
out of whe’ interstate transportation of guns from a
Ohio N&égjonal Guard Armory, which the indictment charged
wer@ implements of war being exported to Cuba. The
latter-mientioned arrest of ROTHMAN occurred in case ©
entitled, ‘"STUART SUTOR; ET AL, TGP$ ITSP; FFA;
NM," “OEfice of Origin, Cleveland, Miami File 52- 3290,
Roreay File 52-72398.

  
  
 

peer) It is recognized this Bureau is not in a
[position to tell U. S. Customs how to conduct their
, / investigation, but it is felt above information should
dd! be ‘furnished orally to U. S. Customs in order that it
‘ gan be emphatically pointed out to Customs it is felt
“~L£ any specific details of the above information are
“known on other than a national level in U, S. Customs,
this CL will be compromised, and will be killed. More
specifically, if known on other than national level that:
(1) information came from FBI; (2) ROTHMAN or LURIE: had
access to information; (3) Biltmore Terrace Hotel is
involved; (4) the specific file number and date alleged
\“£ile was seen at Biltmore Terrace Hotel.

UACB, Miami is conducting no investigation in
this matter; however, MM 660-C has been requested to be
alert for any further information;if£ obtained, the Bureau
will be promptly advised in order that the information
may be similarly disseminated to U. S.. Customs.

7.

JS

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Docld:32294671 Page &
 

 

 

 

MM 137=1594 Sub Section — \

persons who have information in their file, but it should
be pointed out to Customs that it is felt if all of the
information is set down in anything other than a confidential
file maintained on a national level, then the life of the
informant is in great danger. It is noted that this informant
was formerly carried as a Top Jewel Thief of the Miami Office
and in connection with investigation of Jewel Theft Matters,
was developed by Special Agent HURST, to whom this informa-
tion was furnished,.as‘a result of almost daily contact by
Special Agent HURST. During this investigative period,
the identity of Special Agent HURST became known to many
of CI's criminal associates, who know there has been a
close association between the CI and Special Agent HURST.
It is felt that CI can be developed to furnish information
of great significance and for this reason, it would be better
if no one at U. S. Customs, except on a national level, know
that this information came from the FBI, as that factor alone
could jeopardize informant.
, . “A . wee
; ] : de e-packground information, a Biltmore
Terrace. Hotel, although to all outward appearances /a' firste-
class hotel, ts frequented by a number of Cubans who are
anti-FIDEL CASTRO and the hotel has the reputation of being.
-  a’"hot bed" for Cuban revolutionary activities. The hotel
de is allegedly owned by ex-associates of BATISTA and _ NORMAN -
>-ROTHM », according to informants, runs the hotel, but does
/imet ‘publicly admit this. ROTHMAN was arrested by Bureau Agents
“in Miami, Florida, on July 2,.1959, and is presently out on
bond. ee

 

  

This arrest was.in case entitled, "BERNARD J. EZHAYA;
ET AL, IITSP - MT," Office of Origin, New York, Miami File
87- 8756, Bureau File 87-41245. In this case, WILLIAM W. RABIN
was indicted in Chicago on four counts of pledging stolen
Canadian Government bonds in the amount of $138,000.00.
These bonds were part of loot from burglary committed on
May 3-4, 1958, of Brockville Trust and Savings Company of
Brockville, Ontario, Canada, which has been described as the ©
world's largest theft, involving a loss of approximately twelve

6.

Ny Se
| : ph
. < i — set tee eee -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| DoclId:32294671 Page 7
 

MM 137-1594 Sub Section

’ WALLACE D. SHANLEY, U. S. Customs, Miami, contacted the
Miami Office and advised he had received information from
a Confidential Source that MARTIN KATZ, son of Miami Top
Jewel Thief, ABE KATZ, was attempting to rent a plane for
a short, quick flight out of Miami that afternoon, The
purpose of the trip was not explained to the informant
of ‘Customs. SHANLEY furnished the information for whatever
value it might have and said he was going to follow the
matter to see if any Customs violation resulted.

 

: Since MARTIN KATZ is the son of Miami Top Jewel
Thief ABE KATZ, and since a $35,000.00 jewel theft had

. recently occurred of Center Jewelry Store, Miami, in view
of possibility the plane was going to be used to transport
this jewelry, Special Agents JAMES E. HASTINGS and GEORGE
STADTMILLER interviewed Miami PCI CHARLES HORMEL for any
information he might have regarding instant flight referred
to above, as HORMEL has in past been involved in flying
matters in the Miami area of questionable nature. HORMEL
then, advised he had been approached by MARTIN. KATZ on the
morning of November 28, 1959, and been requested to. get a
plane for a three-hour trip. HORMEL was to select a landing
place near Miami, and he was to land there and pick up
several suitcases. PCI had selected a landing strip near
Homestead, Florida, and the trip was being postponed to
11:00 p.m., November 29, 1959. HORMEL was under impression
flight entailed a smuggling operation into Cuba, and, there-
fore, this information was furnished to SHANLEY of Customs
on November 28, 1959, for whatever action deemed necessary.

On November 29, 1959, SHANLEY advised the Miami
Office he had determined above-mentioned flight had as its

   
    

  

- purpose; shipping arms and ammunition to Cuba and, therefore,
: no further action was taken by the Miami Office in.connec-

i \ tion this: proposed flight. a :

Hl .. .

- on November 30, 1959, SHANLEY advised the Miami
Office’ five Cubans had been arrested by U. S. Customs at a

4
ae

5 4,
—_—
g .
a

Cust

“OREVIEWED BY EBERT TABX

A

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32294671 Page 5

 
 

 

oO

é)
| MM 137-1594 Sub Section

small airport near Florida City, Florida, on November 29, 1959,
while in the process of [loading three packages of dynamite
aboard a Cessna twin aircraft belonging to Liberty Aircraft.
SHANLEY advised that in the plang at the time of the arrest
were CHARLES HORMEL and GEORGE-F. » who had flown the
airplane to ‘that site. SHANLEY : nfidentially advised that
the information leading to the arrest had been confidentially
furnished by HORMEL and, therefore, HORMEL and HOGAN were not
arrested, SHANLEY did not say on what charges the above men
were arrested,

   

* ; It is noted that on December 3, 1959, HORMEL was
interviewed by Special Agent JAMES E. HASTINGS concerning
HORMEL's furnishing information to U. S. Customs. HORMEL
_gaid hé is presently under sentence in a Customs case and
they have two more cases pending against him. HORMEL said
as a result of this, he had been furnishing Customs with
information in hopes it. would do him some good in future
trials involving his past activities. At this time, HORMEL
was advised that since he was furnishing information to
organizations other than the FBI, that the FBI was not going
to contact him in the future, As a result of this, the 137-
case on HORMEL was closed in the Miami Office.

 

It does not appear to the Miami Office that with
the above facts this constitutes a violation over which the
Bureau has jurisdiction. In order to further protect the
informant, and since the alleged "leak" apparently is in
the Miami Office of U. S. Customs, it is recommended that
the above information be furnished by the Bureau in Washington
to the Headquarters of U. S. Customs through established
liaison channels. It is recognized that information might
be received from time to time by any organization that
there is a “leak'' which information might be treated lightly,
as it might be attributed to the bragging of a hoodlum, It
is felt that in order to convince U. S. Customs that there
is a leak, it will be necessary to relate to them the entire
facts set forth above, including their file number, name of

 

 

 

DoclId:32294671 Page 6

 
 

 

 

 

   

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
- - 4 ‘5010-104—01

 

UNITED STATES GG: ENT
| Memorandum
H ae
} fo: DIRECTOR, FBI . DATE: December 24, 1959
: . ATTENTION: LIAISON SECTION
FROM

 

zj sac, MIAMI (137- #1594 Sub Section) -

   
  
    

N q
vomer_y._s.custos_ se SERVICE ALL IN iS sab

ALLEGED IRREGULARITY > :

MIAMI, FLORIDA DATE 745 BY ny

On the evening of December 22, 1959, MM 660-C . {

telephonically contacted Special Agent C: GRAHAM HURST
and stated he had some information that he had failed. to >
furnish in the past because he feared for his life as a es
result of passing it on. He said-he still feared for his ~ fy
life, but he realized this was something big and wanted to : )
call it to the attention of the FBI in order that the proper ~
agency, United States Customs, could be advised of what is ;
happening to the extent that information is leaking from i
the files of Miami U..S, Customs Office. Confidential ~ ie
Informant (CI) said there is no question in his mind that hey

he will be killed if the information is disseminated exactly }
as he relates, inasmuch as he can only determine that three
.. ‘per gens other than himself have the information available,
. < . @hith persons will be identified in the following narratij
“CL said sometime between noon and 3:00 p.m. on December (15
959 rhe wi n the restqgurant of the Biltmore Terrace tel,
MiamiBeacttj#with NORMANX ROTHMAN, FBI No._LS25858 No. _152585B..
came-up to their ta Cl described as a waite nele, age
4 29; 6,1", black hair, 160 pounds, nice looking, slender
build. cl said no names were mentioned, but he feels he
: has seen this unknown individual before, and believes-he Pe,
can identify a photograph of. hi £ he jgeet ‘Lt. pe os f
we Ee PI SIE TOT
This individual turned over® 2 feqgonms carbori epi es!
of what ROTHMAN told the CI were U. s_S@U8toms reports.-<Cis*
- said Affianetitly ROTHMAN was sorry that GI ‘was there when this {]/
man came up and | displayed the alleged copies _ of the reports

9- Bureau (1 - 137-4314). SD), GO,

  
    
   
  
 
 
  

 

 

 

  

5 Cony FRED IW

8
“ee
ee,

Facey

XK

 

 

 

' Docld:32294671 Page 2?

 
 

 

JFK Assassination System : : Date: 5/28/201

Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10213-10447

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :' CR 62-22592-459

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: — 12/24/1959
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS :
SMO, ASSOC, NRO, ARREST
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
: CURRENT STATUS: = Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 05/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEF INITE
COMMENTS :

v9.1
DoclId:32294671 Page 1

 

 
 

 

4 4
eae )
MM 157-1594 Sub Section

arid ROTHMAN swore CI to secrecy that he would not reveal to
anyone under any circumstances that these reports had been
in ROTHMAN's possession. CI stated he knows this is hard

to believe; however, as proof he saw something, he said the
communication was dated December 7, 1959, and had what
appeared to be File Number 23-801. CI said as best het let
can recall, the file related how MARTIN; ATZ, Miami! bondsman
who is \son-of Miami Top Jewel Thief ABE}KATZ, had gone to
CHA ORMEL, much publicized Miamf*adventurer and pilot
who hag \been involved in gun-running to Cuba,in the past,

to get’ HORMEL to get an airplane for him, It set forth

that HORMEL was working with U. S. Customs on this matter,
as was a man named HOGAN, who is with Liberty Aviation at
Miami International Airport. Also set forth was that the
airplane in question somehow was thought to contain jewelry
from a $35,000.00 jewel theft on 163rd‘Street, Miami, and

an FBI Agent named STADTMILLER was mentioned.

  
   
  

It then related how the plane was stopped and
Cubans were found aboard with dynamite bombs. CI was
exhaustively questioned about any further specific details,
but said this is all he can recall. CI said he cannot
specifically say what happened to the above-referred-to papers,
exceptthat apparently the man who brought’ them to the Biltmore
’ Terrace Hotel had to return them to some place or person.
CI said on a later date, he had an opportunity to say some-
thing to ROTHMAN about the man who CI saw bring the papers
to ROTHMAN, and ROTHMAN indicated the man who brought the
papers was a waiter who is an undercover man for Customs
and who gets the papers from someone else. CI said he had
hopes he would hear from several sources about ROTHMAN' s
having access to U. S. Customs reports, and then he would
‘not have been so apprehensive about passing on this informa-
i tion, but it has not been a subject of conversation anywhere
and CI feels he has been close enough to the situation and
has enough sources of his own that if it were known, even
among a close circle of people, he would have heard “ye

 

¢

mly inference that has been mad

; ' CL said the\
IE, who is.attorney for ROTHMAN, $i
Pl

by anyone is tha

    
 

oe and also represents SAI INO, wellsknown.Pittsburgh
hoodlum, and several ami Top Jewel Thieves, made a

2.

. a wo
\ ‘ wh ED

 

oan ieee

 

 

 

| Docld:32294671 Page 3
 

 

oa

MM°137-1594 Sub Section

! casual remark to CI about CHARLES HORMEL being a stool pigeon _
for Customs and it was no wonder HORMEL recently received only
. a 30-day sentence in connection with a federal case against
him in Miami, CI pointed out that the information given him
by ROTHMAN about the man who brought the papers being a waiter
and an undercoWer agent for Customs could be a lie, as there
is no question in his mind that in the past on occasion ROTHMAN

has lied to him.

: . _ Special Agent HURST pointed out to CI that it would
y be necessary to pass on the above information to U. S. Customs.
CI said when he called to furnish this information, he ‘knew
that: it would have to be furnished to U.S. Customs,’ and he
‘desired that this be done, as he felt that more and more

\ people's lives ‘would be endangered if and when more reports

. are obtained by ROTHMAN from Customs if he can obtain. them

as he claims he can. CI said that anyone, such as HORMEL,
from the underworld, who furnishes information, will more than
likely be killed, and ROTHMAN, in his position with KELLY and
SAMMY MANNARINO, members of ''The Outfit" in Pittsburgh, is

in a position to furnish information to the “right people"
who could cause people to be “rubbed out."

 

CI further stated that he would never furnish informa-
tion to Customs, as Customs Agents are too indiscreet. CI said
he has been interviewed by Customs Agents in Miami and there
was little doubt in CI's mind when the interview was terminated
as to where Customs obtained their information. CI said that
4£ he obtains any further information regarding the identity
of the person furnishing the information, he will advise.

CL stated he has the reputation of being a "blabber mouth"!

and talking too much, which he said he probably does, and. at —
present, he feels he is in a precarious position, and for this
reason, hopes that every effort will be made to protect him
as the source of this information.

. ‘As a matter of information, Miami Office is not aware
of what appears in Customs File 23-801, but the following did
occur, of which Miami has knowledge, which appears to verify
the information furnished by MM 660-C. On November 28, 1959,

~

3.

 

 

 

DoclId:32294671 Page 4
