 

Rg

See SANITIZE OS Versio Ne 09 2 c ©] 59 ; ieee ;
, | Ain Komen SECRET |
-Hay 17, 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR ME. ROSTOW-

SUBJECT: Meeting of the Viet Nam Task Force on

Momiay, Hay 15, 1961 ;

After briefings on the military and political situation

in Viet Nam and surrounding areas in Southeast Asia, Mr. Cottrell

summarized actions taken over the weekend, referring to a
series of outgoing ang incoming telegrams, These covered the
following matters:

&. The establishment of the Task Force in Washington
-and a request to the Ambassader in Saigon to form a
similar Task Foree there.

b. A message to Saigon. containing the eubstance of
NSC Action Memorandum No. 52 and indicating that these
actions would be reviewed further at an NS¢€ meeting. on
May 19.

c. A message to Saigon summarizing the substance of
the Yask Foroe report for the field advising that the
report itself would be pouched, ¢

gd. A message to Saigon indicating that the JCS waa
making the study called for by paragraph 4 of the Action
Hemorandum (relating to commitment of U. 3. forces).

@ The Secretary of State had authorized the dis-
patch of 93 additional MAAG personnel from Clark Air
Force Base in the Philippines to Saigon.

I asked whether the status of the Task Force report hed
been clearly indicated in sending it to the field. It da=
veloped that the status had not been indicated in the messages
and I was asked to prepare a brief statement of the points
that needed to be made for inclusion in a subsequent nossage.

In connection with the reference to NSC discussion of the
Action Memorendum, Hr. Cottrell asked that agencies make known

at the Wednesday meeting of the Task Force any views they plan

to express on the Memorandum, (I subsequently emphasized te
Mr. Cottrell the fact that this Memorandum was being scheduled
on the agenda for information and that 4t was intended that

the Nemorandum should stand and that there would be no dis-
cussion of it in the NSC unless ean mey had a serious point .
that it wished to argue in front of the Fresident. Hr. Cottrell
agreed to make this point to Defense and at the beginning of
Wednesday's Task Force meeting. }

-1- | SECRET

HW 49061 DoclId:32628712 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10033
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files: Robert W. Komer
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 5/17/1961
PAGES : 47
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : ;
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA : . ,
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 447: Vietnam 1961-1963. Box 4.

HW 49061 DoclId:32628712 Page 1
 

HW 49061

SECRET

Mr. Cottrell referred to the fact that it was planned to
add an additional individual te the Public Relations Staff of
the Par East Bureau to ihandle public relations on Viet Nam;
that is, to put out information om South Viet Nem and to be.
available to ansuer questions. In response t6 a question,
Hr. Cottrell indicated that there would be ne cennection ba~
tween this publie relations man and the Task Force, ;
We. Cottrell also noted ‘that this Task Force would be runing
the Viet Nem desk, although the former Assistant Desk Officer
woud now be nwamed the Desk Officer and would handle routine
matters.

. Nx. Cottrell asked me whether the planned weekly
status report should not be so timed that it could be
scheduled on a Friday HSC agen He also noted that a
seperate status report would be prepared on covert activities
and transmitted to the NSC. I pointed out thet there was no
established meeting time for the NSC and that, therefore, it
would be difficult to relate work on the report to NSC
meetings. I indicated that I would check on the matter of
scheduling such reports on NSC agendas. (This matter sub-
sequently taken. up with you and with Mr. Bundy.)

A question was raised as to whether portions of the Task
Force report could be downgraded or de-clasesified, I pointed
out that we ordinarily proceeded, in handling NSC dcouments,
on the principle that the agency having primary responsibility
should make determination as to the classification of a
particular item in an NSC document and had the authority te
downgrade or de-tlassify as necessary in the course of ine
plementation. ;

Reference was made to the fact that a meeting was
scheduled in the White House on Thursday (under Mr. Dutton's
Leadership) to discuaes the fate of °Project Hope". Although
this hospital ship is supposed to be a private enterprise, the
Government (ICA) has been picking up the tab for some time.

It is said to have considerable public relations value, but
there is considerable doubt as to whether it makes economic
gense ~- it costa $5,000 a day to operate the ship. It was
the consensus of the meeting that, in view of the preparations
that had been made to receive the ship in Saigon, it would
not be desirable to cancel the stap in Saigen, although, af.
necessary it could be kept short...

Robert H. Johnson

ec: Hr. Smith
ir. Komer .

SEGRE!

DocId:32626712 Page 3
