 

eee - ~ ad

nothing they could do about it.. The article said
that the climax of Interpen training is parachute
jumping at an abandoned South Florida airfield.

The article continued that Hemming hires
a. sky diving instructor and rents a light plane for
the exercises, and during the jumping drills on the.
previous Saturday, the Sheriff's patrol officers —
lcoked om and made no attempt to interfere. The
article went on that Interpen has about one hundred
. members, including some at bases in California and
i - in the North, and its purpose was to fight. Communism,
look for adventure, or "because ‘they just like soldier-
ing." JoeyCorman, a member from Kentucky, was quoted
as saying? ~ "EZ would rather be shot to death than —
bored to death. " Fea
eee Kyu
vm t-1, on June 27, 1961,fadvised that
the above-mentioned article was out of proportion
‘to the true situation, and served ne other ‘purpose
: than to obtain publicity for Hemming and attract
: more adventurers to the Mieni area.

 

MM Tel explained that on: June 27, 1961,

i a plane was ‘cented at. Howe Aviation, Tamiami: Airport,

in Miami, and flown to an abandoned field at Davie, ~ :

) Florida, where the plane was met by Hemming, Joe.

H “Gorman 5 Larry)Worley, Frankxfittle and.one other

. ‘individual, name unkhjwn, all Interpen members. Ee
i -Alse there were Frankfiorini, a “a HUCSTIOUS Would-be
soldier of fortune, a. ‘fourteen year old Cuban boy,
and a news photographer from. the "Miami Herald”

newspaper e OFA

 
   

 

2 Bo

 

 

 

 

i
i
pos - wee ee . a ne ee i cee ee
‘t
4

| DocId:32309468 Page 9

f Re; Intercontinental Penetration Forces © Pe

‘they teld the police, but the police said there was _ lax

iS

Tb. Ab

 
wo ne

 

Rez Intercontinental Penetration Forces

_ Joe Gorman and Larry Worley got im the. airplane,
and each made a parachute jump. When these, two enly
available parachutes were repacked, Frank Little and
Heaming beatded the airplane and made ‘a parachute jump.
The photegrapher ‘took’ photographs, which appeared ina
later issue of the "Miami Herald." Oe) gm

MM T-l said that these were the first and |
only parachute jumps made by Interpen members. They

_ were practice jumps, and. fortunately, nobedy was inijured,
fmasmuch as none of these individuals hes had any train-
ing or experience, and they are not in adequate physical
condition. ~~. SO ne en

_ . On June 28, 1961, the "Miami Herald" contained
an article stating that Interpen’s Commander is the —
"biggest, stromgest and most handsome member of the
lot, and in his marine camouflage suit, Australian -
bush hat, wavy hair and beard, he has the look of SS.
an old-time French musketeer." ‘he article: continues
_by stating that Hemming is convinced that the pro>
Communist Government of Cuba will be overthrown only

by infiltration of Guerrilla fighters: that he and

his men live in a rcoming house, and when they are:

not on training exercises in the Everglades Swamps,
: ‘or parachuting ‘at an abandoned airfield, they. practice
rigging parachutes in the street. The article cén-.
tinues that neighbors have complained, but, the police
contend there is nothing they can do. Hemming claims
he does not try to hide the fact that Interpen is —~.
part of the International Anti-Commmist Brigade, which
is associated with the Revolutionary Junta of National _
Liberation, led by Aureliano Sanchez Arango. so

 

2 Qo

 

 

PR a ae ——

i . .
| pocta: 32309468 Page 10

 

 
 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces ,

: Hemming had another plan to obtain a.106 foot
salvage boat to take his group on a commando raid against
Cuba. #lowever, he was unable to obtain access to this

. beat. Tol explained that Hemming has a new and different ,
plan ly, does not follow through on any of them, and oo
none of them ever succeed. )

. £xess Publicity

... The "Miami Herald," a daily newspaper published

in Miami, Flerida, on June 27, 1961, contained an article
~ concerning Interpen, ‘Stating that most members are: Americans,

although the leaders claim the group includes Canadians,
Venezuelans’,, Cubans and other anti-Communists. ‘The ~
article stated that the existence of this group was known |
by the Herald, but it became generally known .to the ©
public on June 26, 1961, after Florida Senator George
A. Smathers disclosed that Cuban exiles are training in
Florida, The article said that Senator Smathers’ dis-
closure on a nation-wide radio network brought other
newsmen and television cameramen to Interpen headquarters
on Juné 26, 1961, . Be

The article described Hemming as a "young
. giant, 6 feet 7 inches tall, with long wavy hair, a
trimmed beard, an Australian bush hat, who locks
like Errol Flynn in his earlier matinee days." The
' article stated that. Hemming said the recruits are
first housed at the headquarters, and then sent to
a training site in the Everglades, accessible only
by boat. The article continued, stating that Interpen
holds parachute rigging elasses in the middle of a
-street in. Miami, and one elderly Miami couple stated

 

(27s

 

 

DoclId:32309466 Page 6
4

 

 
 

 

 

H
i
|

Re: | Intercontinental Penetration Forces

organizations, these organizations have refused to
support, denate, take. into membership, or cooperate
with Anterpen. (QQ) pO 7

During May and June, 1961, the following
individuals advised that. their organizations would
have nothing to do with Interpen: _
Antenipfiaceo, member ef the Cuban Revolution-
ary Council’ eee

 

!

  
   
 

Orland Marcia, Assis

  

Arango, head of the lutionary. Junta.of....
Cuban eratio . ;

a
“ t
Po Ah ane BES Ne Re AA

Ernestalgéspaigne, im charge of intelligence :
for FRD ~ eine

RADE Eakin EDN

 

Rafael Gias\Walart, ao leading menber of the

  
  

£ to Aureliano Sanchez _.

   

 

White Rose organization, and presenti rk
ing with Carlos Prio Socarras, former President | Xu)
of Gabas }
. meets RRIDTIATINAST te
Failure of Plans oo, _<

_.°. MM-T-l explained that many of the irresponsible
plans of Hemming have failed. fone invelved driving a
car from Miami, Florida, to Guatemala, for some unknown
revolutionary purpose. Hemming also was involved in
another plan with Agustin Capo, ‘a. Cuban national, to
go on a recomaissance trip by beat to the Cay Sal Bank
of islands, north of Cuba, and later establish a base
for Interpen there for. future commande raids against ‘
Cuba. This failed, inasmuch as. Capo is being watched
by the United. States Border Patrol, and is afraid if —
he leaves on his beat, he will be arrested HWY)

o 6 =

 

Kee Se ee

DoclId:32309466 Page 7
 

 

 

Res Intercontinental Penetration Forces

said that it would be extremely doubtful that Gamba,
or any ether FRD official, would in any way help or
take inte membership any American greup of volunteers.

MM subsequently advised that Hemming
and fom caiaflliecced Bama FRD headquarters en
June &, 1961. xThey were trézte courteously, but
received ne promises of help or offers of membership
in the FRD, and were politely referred to Manuel .
Antonio de Varona, Coordinater of the FRD.. MM Tel:
explained that the FRD's policy has always been
against accepting Americans, and it was extremely
doubtful that Interpen would receive any aid from
the FRD mo,

; (us
fm 1 snes that Hemming and Interpen
| ~ ss members have contacted many other Cuban organizations
and individuals, seeking money donations, equipment
. and members, but they have always been refused. =.

|Contact with Venezuelans | ye)

_. On May 25, 1961, MM T-1 advised that lemming
foad made contact with a first name unknown) effate an

‘Associate of Marcos;Pere. enez, former dict

ir .
of Venezuela, presently residing in Miami Bea gach, FIérida JW(4O
Hemming had offered his services toxPerez Jimene: pee)

‘future revolutionary activity in Venezuela. pa
\eee Prato later took Dick @tley and Robert (c LB
~FWillis, members of Interpen and assistants to Hemming,

to see Perez Jimenez. However, Perez Jimenez was unable -

to confer with them because he was too busy with the Cha)

  

   

o & e ,

 

 

 

 

' pocta: 32309468 Page 5
 

 

 

 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

matter concerning his pending deportation hearing, to
be held in the United States District Court in Miami.
Prato said that Perez Jimenez wondered how it was
possible for American adventurers, such as the Interpen
members, to maintain a training camp, wear uniforms |
‘and practice military maneuvers in the United. States,
after they have publicly stated they plan. to vielate
United States neutrality laws by proposed military
attacks against Cuba. Perez Jimenez expressed some
apprehension in cooperating with them, for fear they
would be arrested by United States authorities. Willis
; and Watley planned to make an appointment to see Perez
- Jimenez at a later time concerning offering their
services and these of Interpen to Perez Jimenez. bef Mm)

On June 5, 1961, MM T-1 advised that (first __
name _unknown)¥Peleaz, 5733 Northwest 6th Place, Miami, Free! >®
representing Perez Jimenez, bought one hundred sixty /
dollars worth of food. for a donation to Interpen.
This food consisted mainly of rice, beans, and canned

items. GAM

Om June 28, 1961, MM T-1 advised that
. Fepresentatives of Perez Jimenez were supposed to
ho visit a camp site established at Key Large, Florida
by Imterpen. At the camp site, they would be given
demonstrations im military training and jungle
survival by Hemming (WAL)

 

Organizations

       

able to Leading

"MM T-1 advised’ that although Interpen had
visited mest of the leading Cuban revolutionary yu) ~

 

 

 

 

‘i
‘t
| Docld: 32309468 Page 6

 
| FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56) _ ee :
” Py . * 5
? “ a: . gh

 

e 9 UP BI
Date: G va $-C/
PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

 

Transmit the following in

 

 

Via AIRTEL AIR MAIL |
of Mailing) |

 

 
 

 

   

   
   
   

if th
uo TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1693 git
i C ) fi/@ Lee [3 7
(2-312) ROS 5
_
yd ;
ERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES DecLpssiryro Lay SHINY BO
“INTERPEN) aaa AER
NEUTRALITY MATTER

 

 

 
  
  
   
   
 
   
    
 

soe eh) ¢ MIAMT)

 

_ The title of this case is being changed to
reflect the new namg,of this organization, which was
previously known as“"'Anti-Communist Legionnaires."

ReMiamitel to Bureau, 6/27/61, entitled:
"anti-Communist Legionnaires" and telephone call from
Mr. F. BAUMGARDNER at Bureau to Miami, 6/27/61.

 

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies of a letter-
head memorandum, dated and captioned as above. / /

MM T-1 isfim 639-Sh’¥ Yo

MM T-2 is JORGE MORAN, Assistant Coordinator, :

“FRD, Miami. We Ya Z

 

: Miami will continue to foLicw act bivities of
captioned organization. through MM 6394S (%

; ys MCT - 285 L673 - /f
. a seman
Yo @- Encl. = 9) (AM - RM
iN ge: Miami (2-31 We ‘
4 RJD:ems , Spe

 

'e Wa JUN 291961

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

gent-.in' Charge

 

 

 

 

¢ Docld:32309468 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/27/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10298-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 2-1693-18

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC,MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/28/1961
PAGES: 12

. INTERPEN, GPH, AKA, DESCR, RECRUITMENT, TRAINING,
MEMBERS, ARRESTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
. RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

 

 

 

J eee
v9.1 29
DoclId:32309466 Page 1 .
 

W.

oo
UNITED STATES, DEPARTMENT OF JUST [QE epemaeey

 
 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

 

   
 
  
 

ate Reply, Please Refer to “ “ 4 g LL /
2-312 .
_ CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLAS TCA. ANDOR,

 

amaTicgtant, Florida .

oo,

RELER B
IN THIS DOCUMENT. <p We
sup | KS
KK
- Res mableredth. tA Penetration. Forces

3

       

& Nature of Organization

Ve eee '

Wo MM ToL, who has been involved in Cuban
a revolutionary activities for the past four years,
iyi and who has furnished reliable information in the
NS past, is closely associated with}Gerald Patrick
iN

Hemming. head of the Intercentinental Penetration

Forces, also” known as Interpen. fhe).

_. ifeerse ee Gensed Pareiete
; MM T-Ikadvised that _Jerry, Henning, sata
and Gerald Patrickhfienning are nam names used by. the ‘press
and by other individuals referring te Gerald Patrick

Hemming, and are (K identical with Hemming.

   

Bil U) :

Som iets that Interpen, until recently,
was known as the Anti-Communist Legionnaires, and is —
an organization made up of American volunteers, mer- .
cenaries, vagrants and adventurers, having a member-
ship of fifteen to-twenty individualg. The membership
has a high turnover, inasmuch as newspaper publicity
caused these adventurers to come to Miami, Florida
‘to join the organization, but lack of any serious
accomplishment causes them to become disillusioned
and leave. At any one time, there are several
members in jail in Miami for fighting, vagrancy
and drunkenness. They beg food from Cuban grocery nee

 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  

\ Lobt!s eesy,
i le

  
  

 

“DATE FORW.
HOW FORW.
BY A

 

ENCLOSURE 2 —

 

 

 

i DoclId:32309466 Page 3

 

   
 

 

 

Cc so a
"S . . : we

ee oa

 

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

On May 17, 1961, Sergeant Sapp advised that

Redmond and Roma had again been arrested for vagrancy
Bayfront Park, along with Alfre shane and Albert :
AMariner, who were also charged with vagrancy. : ; 4 “As :

 

Sergeant Sapp advised that these members
of Interpen have developed into a police problem, are
rowdy and drunken, and cause considerable comment by.
residents of Miami and tourists visiting the eity.

Contact with Frente. Revolucionarie Democratico | be

T-1, ‘en _June 5, 1961, advised that Tom__

desta angi (last name unknown) , Interpen. members,
about a month previously, went to Chicago, Illinois an bas
‘ahd contacted headquarters of the Frente Reve lucionario
Democratico (Revelutionary Democratic Front - FRD), an’
alliance group of anti-Communist Cuban revolutionary.
organizations. Cain and Frank were seeking aid and

backing for Interpen from the FRD, and received a

letter of intreduction, addressed to Mr. Gamba, FRD
headquarters, Miami. 142 CO :

 

 

MM T-1 said that at that time, Interpen

consisted ef about fourteen members, most of whom

were staying at 1925 Seuthwest 4th Street, the

residence of a Mrs. Hamiiten, who allews them to

stay there free, and frequently provides meals for

them. mM)

. ENT& ReyoLueren Ate DEM ecRATICO

hy 1-2, who ts-an-offielal-of- the -FRD-- and

who has furnished reliable informatien in the past, //s)

advised th. Tomas7Gamba is an assistant to "ohAy .
Antonio ern Coordinator of the » Ds wr | aa

Nels ae cannery idx ertnerne

e 30

Docld: 32309468 Page 4

 
