 

  
 
  
   

Se G i iat. priox to. the videctaping,. RAUL
and SANTANA left.the room and apparently.went upstairs to
“Room 102 to Sleep. “-Source-stated that he sat/alone at the .
table. upon which’ the. videotaps machine was mounted and CARLOS
asked him.a list- of questions. ‘This taping, in which three
“reels were used,* took one. hour and’ 25 minutes. . Source was. fee
asked about his family situation in:Cuba. before’ FIDEL CASTRO © .° *-
cok over. He was asked’ about his thoughts on. the Batista |
‘Regime in’ Cuba.-He was asked to comment about his present
'.. family situation in’ and out of Cuba. He. was asked. about csD
what political movements he had been a member of, and He .
_responded witn Aipha 66 and. Escambrey.. (hen questioned about CS,
““""Alpha 66, the source told*the interviewer that in 1964} he .
--' had helped Cuban exiles and arms to pass through Puerto Rico :
to Santo Domingo to. be used against Cuba. Ce stated that C33
- during ‘that year. he had helped approximate 28 individudls . =~.
and that all but four of those individuals had returned. He
stated that “Gere four who, made. _to.Cuba were. now in
s$

    

 

  

 

  
 

~Cuban prisons. unce was asked to give comments about his CsI
- participation .inJan assassination attempt. of. FIDEL-CASTRO\~ 2. ..-0) =
,,in Chile in 1971,(and the source did. He was asked to\C$ J.
“comment on thé assassination of JOHN F, KENNEDY in 1963 and
about his contacts and knowledge of ANTONIO VECIANA. The
interviewer wanted to know VECIANA's position with the U.s.
Embassy in Bolivia in 1971. fe was asked to comment about OS J
a Mr. BLAIR and Mr. KAIL, who~were reportedly employees of
the U.S. Embassy in Cuba during the takeover of the Cuban
“= Government by FIDEL CASTRO. The CUIS suspected these :
' individuals of being associated with the U.S. Centrai Intelligence
Agency and asked the source that if he knew where they are
now and if he had ever contacted them at ito in} Embassy.

 

 

 

 
  
  
 
  

  

 

Source was’ questioned about bis participation in ]another
assassination attempt of FIDE CASTRO which too place in
1 1961 in Havana, Cuba. (Source stated thatlat that time Co os
_ VECIANA, BERNARDO, PRADRERES(and he )tried to kill: FIDEL CASTRO. :
_with a Bazooka. (He stated ¢ atjan apartment was rented onCS
“Mission Street. in davana,.Cuba, by VECIANA's mother-in-law.
‘Gource stated that)they waited nine months for FIDEL casro Cs)
to appear at a public gathering at the Cuban capitel which was
-, Only one block away, but (their operation| had no suceess. (Ze so
~ (i stated that) PRADRERES had hired two others to fire :
' the BazcoKka andflater they reported that)it was too old andC S$)
not functional. (Source stated that}this ; ka, which.wasC S$.
used against BATISTA, had been hidden unt? fhe’ time of ‘the? >

 

  

Jelemeaebbcea detection ae 6s

   
 

 

     
 

 

     
      
 
  

“Saban Governinent ‘edund’ ‘ouE. about* this. Sesdssination ° at attempt
“about two. months after the above~mentioned- individuals. -.
“in the plot léft- the hotel LOOM; . because the Bazooka was
Aet win. the room. : : ;

 

 

     

CARLOS _gskea(tne soueea)eo send: a message. “to PIDEL
CASTRO «and.-comment..on what he thought: about ‘the possibility.
; of renewed relations between the United States and Cuba..,

‘ ' Source stated that many Cubans wanted. to return to Cuba for
: . family reasons and that many Cuban exiles are still, however,
Jeo tne against the FIDEL CASTRO Governme As a message
5% o the Cuban Government, s(eourse stated that he was sorry that

he did everythingwagains CASTRO and that he wanted to.come
“back to Cuba sometime to visit and-that he would-also, like
to 28) ‘the ‘CubanGovernment.: The interviewer asked(theC C 3d

 

 

4
4
oa
q

i

aq

source)how he felt about working with the CUIS contacts
‘o\that had’ met™in’ récent ‘months ahd (source téported | favorably
about these individuals. (Source was )asked to comment_abourCs
“the Cuban Revolution and His working with ‘the CuIs. Gaource Gs
told the interviewer that things appear to be’ gnod’ in Cuba
.and that everyones receiving free education and medical
treatment. (Source -added that] he Aes never lived underC $3
‘Communism sg he conld not make a well. considered statemen
about. it. Gource ‘tated in the last segment of the tape cheyl
resented him x Large blow-up ijenich cones of photographs

 

 

   

 

‘which he had eariser given to them|which concerned an AlphaCs.
“66 meeting ian Daklas, Texas, in. 1963 There appeared in the
shots an individual: answering description of LEE HARVEY OSWALI
coset asked( the source in front of the video machine] to point c
which individual in the blow-ups could possibly be LEE HARVEY
: OSWALD. There was no other comment_made about these pictures.
Le There were no other questions madefand at that point the
OS eerie nota . . ;

 

 

 

 

a SECRET
 

 

gs és-s1a [CSD °
OBabe eT

  
 
 
  

; 1. floor, room of ‘the. hotel,. the. SOUPCE.) ns .
‘met ano her Cuban, ono. was introduced, ‘to him as.. SANT ‘ANA, Source :
- des¢ribed™ him aS‘ Mulatto, who had. Negro ‘features... He
ais. 54 gu tall, weighing approximately 160 pounds, 40 years: of
“age -and. has black kinky hair.’ Source stated. hat ‘SANTANA
works for the Cuban | Embassy in Mexico City (S).

hile enroute. to the ‘San Miguel. Hotel ARLOS sCs)
a a

 
   
 

 

.* mentione ‘oO the source |that the ‘CUIS. had. wante’ Oo makeva +
' videotape Of-a contact with the ‘source and: to later show

this} only to. FIDEL CASTRO. and other -high- cneoking Cuban *

. Governnent officials. fSource agreed to thi Source noted

yO in the room that a- videotape camera, which appeared to be a

7 5" = Sony product, was mounted on a tripod on a table and a

., Microphone placed just. off to the side of the table. Source
‘stated that the video machine was black and-white in color

and that: uni grstood the > filming would also be in black
‘and white. iz Le oe, . :

eerie, to the videotaping of the source, there had Cs) o
been conversation~ concerning’ MANOLO RAY. ‘Source’ advised that .
CARLOS told him that while the source's sister was recently ..
“in Puerto’Rico during January,’ 1977; RAY had told her that
«he was .interested. in: meeting ‘the cuts: RAY had’ stated at
‘that time that he- would be sending a letter to the source's
“sister in Cuba. Source understood that RAY would be making
a meet. with the CUIS in the near future. Source stated that
it appeared that the CUIS wanted no connection between the

source's sister and ani ‘Also, in conversati prior to: the

     
 
  
    
    
      
      
   

 

 

 

: videotaping.) CARLOS (advised the. ‘source that h ad come: from Cs]
Cuba to gine) ico City on the evening of Gilay 18) 1977, arriving
very ites

 

   

   

| Np SECRET
 

        
          
     
 

(sores « advised: a: that) nave left. ft ciitsos(ana. the  soures J C
o pick up am apparently rented car a~short. distance _

a away. Source’ stated thatjthis car was ‘a 1975 light green twor€ $3
| cs Va kant’ a ed what appeared to beScar. rental papers in

RAUL’ Ss: pocket... rks “Puerta BRieo! as part ofthe

‘rental - fiom" s name entering the éar: CARLOS stated cs3

L wse..a. Cuban. ‘Embassy. Car. for these :
I £ reasons, -Source’stated that they)
traveled in the aut ile tei(San Wguel. in one and one=

iS

Ge hours and thewjen a Hotel/ \c ae)
H

and went

 

 

        

 

 

San Miguel in Pyebla City. -
e. stated that they \iraveled olT of (Mexico City jon the Expressway CS
and. in{ Puebl went @&

a ‘Reforma jAven: e, proceeded two so
blocks and_then. ‘xight Ewo blocks. oon stated that/CS
the pore Gan 3 Mi appeared very sun Gener auc third class, eal
He stated that) [ [2

- "one oO gr
eile: *

 

    
       
 
 
   
 

a3

 

ct. (Gpe sour )ner 53 «
as }HECTOR .- BECTORC. 53
‘tail, weighing 185
a yy black hair; which
HECTOR wore no glasses and had no
rete HECTO R to be ja televisionC$~
(0)

    

was approxi mate Ap
pounds,
was combed straight bac
mustache nor beard. .(So

 

 

/ and videotape technic ‘SELOS told source thafJHECTOR came C$’
.. from Cuba and: worked: with e CUIS in. Cuba. fUpon entering the
ground floor room; the Source noted an automatic pistol lying
on the ped’ and ‘he: understood that this pistol belonged to

HECTOR. \[s7) »

Source ‘advised that up to this point in conversation
with RAUL, the latter had talked a lot about the good times
that he recently had om a trip to the Soviet Union when he
accompanied FIDEL -CASTR® there. He stated that the Cuban
delegation enjoyed many ig parties in Russia and there was
an abundance of, beer, vwedka and Russian women. RAUL felt
that the Russian people. loved FIDEL CASTRO. Source, stated
that while enroute, to the San Miguel Hotel, CARLOS advised
the source . that. JORGE’ sends his regards to ‘the source. Source

ee: General," who has previously met.

. meets G)

 

 

 

 

 

 

ceca A SEE NaS wlan taka

 

 
 

     

at , While at the “ipeplica - ‘newspaper: office Gne ‘source C$
0. was @ tories one. BERNARDO VELEZ., -who is: reportedly "one of :
* JS IMMY. CARTER's- people, "told MAX -LESNIK ‘thet he*had been told
in Washington that —ALDEREGUIA was working. for the Cuban: Govern. 5
" ment, (Sourge stated thatjit appeared that ROGER REDONDO had ¢ SJ
; “told(VEC ANA Jabout ALDEREGUIA's connéction with the Panamaian 53
- Government."{Source stated that )REDONDO’ was at one time a
oO - Captain in‘an anti-~Batiste organization known as the Segunda —
3 0 vl» “Frente .(Sécond: ‘Front ). CSource learned that \ALDEREGUIA is” C
yon .. almost. always present at the "Replica newspaper office in ~
Miami; Florida.

 

  
 

   
  
  
 
    
   
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
     
   
  

  

‘

: : Cugcrana requested ‘that: the -scurcd)teli th the CUIS in cs2
Glexico City )that. members of the CoordinaciOn de OrganizacionesC
evolucionarias Unidas (Coordination of United Revolutionary
Organizations) (CORU) frequently come to "The Little Havana” :
Welfare Office in Miami and-that itis believed that CORU
gets money from that office. (Source stated that) nararL CS)
VILLAVERDE is currently in charge of that officé. = Cuserana C5
_ Stated that\CORU members LEDO, CASTILLO, GASPAR JIMENEZ and
OROZCO have been seen at that office. Cveciana requestedZ CSS
that the source also jtelil the CUIS that “he had heard that
ALDEREGUIA is currently working for the Panamanian Government.
In addition, VECIANA asked. the source to advise KuIS thatCS \
recently ORLANDO BOSCH was interviewed on a radio’ program
and he was encouraging actign against the Venezuelan Govern-

' ment. CGource was to further \Advise the CUIS that BOSCH, whoCS.J
desired a speedy trial in Vénezuela, had gotten word to CORU
that if he did not get a'trial soon that CORU would take action:
and place a bomb sgainst some Venezuelan property. This.

-. bomb. would be designed to cause very.little damage and no
injury to anyone, If the Venezuelan Government did not act
with dispatch regerding a speedy trial for BOSCH, a second

- bomb would be placed by CORU which would cause considerable
‘damage to Venezuelan property. Gource stated that VECIANAC S ‘)
felt “thatlin light of the BOSCH trial matter, the Cubans might
attempt to get the Venezuelan Government to expedite that
trial. :

 

 
 

  
  
  
 

 

BME). SECRET :
. |

ee : oe vhs

  
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
   
   
    
      
   
    
   
 
   

SJ

. ic a 30. ms

 

 

- : ; Go rea)traveled from: Miami, ‘Florida, tof Mexico City, ee
/. Mexico, \via Aeronaves| Airlines Flight #411 on May i) 1977, Cs,
“leaving Miami at 3 p.m. and arriving: at{ Mexico gy 5 p.m.c
{Source was\met by no-one at, the airport~and went_to his room,
M3503). t Phe(El Diplomatico)Hotel.in\ Mexico city) At'7:20 o.m
‘source took: one taxi to the middle or”~town and then another
the assigned meeting place with the CUIS. "Gource stated thg cs}
this was a maneuver to avoid easy detection of where he w,

3 G ey and cs,

  
 
 
  

destined. fHe-stated that he\went. to the Metro eae Xola

saw people across the street. Cie stated that he } walked through iC $

a tunnel and then returned to the center of the sidewalk where, .

he was met by CARLOS ; (whom He had previously met,\ and another 3
_ “Cuban individual. Source stated that \CARLOS. was wearing a

- dark jacket, a blue T-shirt under the jacket, dark pants and.
carrying a_small handbag (in which there was a gun. Source (I Cs)
-. Stated..that Jthe.other..Cubaa- was-a-white.male;: approximately =
'.28 years ofd, weighing 150, 8'8" tall, and having black hair
=Cworn medium length and parted: on the right side which was

‘combed down. This individual who was referred to as RAUL, had

no sideburns, no mustache and was wearing white-rimmed glasses.

He was dressed with.a light jacket, white shirt with a collar,

and dark pants. RAUL, although he did not smoke, often had a
black cigarette holder in his month. He carried nothing in

his hands. (Source believed that}CARLCS was the apparent reader CS]
of the two. oy oe a oe 2 :

 

 

 

Source advised that his sister from Cuba, tts) did 6
not travel to(Mexico City |to be with the CUIS during their meet with
the sourc ource wasjtold by CARLOS that they did not want

is eee ees wvoteod in“his affairs with the CUIS and, therefore,
she did not come to meet him as.was previously arranged. Jcs')

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fF .
i scree ry oo
f Oy A
x
5/25/77
. TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-152711)
| GS)
| FROM: SAC, SAN JUAN ((65-514 (P)
susect: (oceLoT (S_)
_ "Ts-cusa

‘

Re San Juan teletype to Bureau{May 24, 1977.Cs_}

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an
FD-302 reflecting interview of (the subject on May 23) 1977.C SJ

Bureau is requested to forward two copies to SAC,
Miami.

tape session is furnished, source Janswered with, generalities, as.
in questions about life in Cuba under Batista,(or with specific

information previously furnished to CUI8s, such as participation in
-41971 assassination attempt in Cuba.)(S3

2- mncls. YL
mee ga CLE estes
“Bien REASON: 15° (Col). 7
‘HBB cmawy AL ASS! ; ie,
OCA DECLASSIFY ON: X

 

BUG

  

 

When no response to quest ions (asked by cUIS in video-Cs]

 

 

 

4

! Docla: 32313055 Page 2?
SSS ss SSN

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/14/201
5 . Identification Form
———————ero0 O02.
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10325-10304

RECORD SERIES: SJ

 

AGENCY FILENUMBER: SEE TITLE
; ” —_ el
Document Information :

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SJ
TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 05/25/1977
“PAGES: 35

. SUBJECTS : .
ANTONIO VECIANA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FD-302

 

 

 

——“—q ee
v9.1 ; 11
) DoclId: 32313055 Page 1
: ee ene

 

 

 

2- Bureau (Encis. 5)

x (Miami 2) age

Cee San Juan cusil cD By Slee
HBB mawe-~ EASON: ‘)
¢ Fee eesiey G on Are

 

 

 

 

5/25/77

 

TG: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-152711) -
FROM: SAC, SAN JUAN (65-514) (P)
SB)

SUBJECT: (OCELOT; \(S)
ceror VS

Re San. Juan teletype to Bureau May 24) 1977. CSD

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of_ an
‘Fb-302 reflecting interview of(the subject on May 23) 1977.CS)

Bureau is requested to forward two copies to SAC,
Miami. ; .

When no response to questions Gsked hy CUIS in video- C83
tape session is furnished, source )answered with_gseneralities, as
in questions about life in Cuba Under Batista, (or with specific
information previously furnished te CUIS, such as participation in
1971 assassination attempt in cuba YS)

    

are

 

TRA SECRET HATAL ATTACHED
, semeseil 95+ roles - It SIC)
an ; i

Filed ___erecreree

 

   

 

 

: DoelId:32313055 Page 3
 

    
    
    
     
 
  
 
   
   
   

 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
    
  
   
    
    
  
  
 
  

 

Pos . “On (Say ay 25): 1977 (ae confide ntial “source, | whe: he
i “provided: relfable formatién in the past J iwas interviewed by
* Special. Agents.o the Feder Bureau of | nvestigation ang
advised that. on (tay. 18,.1977,) he ade a telephone cali ffro
Puerto’ Rico|to the Cuban Embassy Gn: Mexico City, Mexico
asked for The Vice Counsel: (Source used a préviously¢ ie)
arranged statement concerning the status of

aovisa to signal B35.
the Embassy_that. he would be traveling to sxLeo City. Source
tated thatJthe secretary: who. handled the. Call-in the Cuban _- :
simply 5)

Embassy Gppeared not. to recognize the signal “and sh
told him. that the Vice Cove il was not in..the. Et ie sy.

 

 

  

 

   

    

; s7B)(the sourca|traveted ‘from San Juan cs
mi, Florida, via stern Airlines ee C$
Meter arrived in Miami eat approximate 1 Cs)
and ots met by hie “business partner, TONIO, VECE my ourcel(’S)
dvised VECIANA th at. he |was going toCtexieo City Jto- meet cs)
Cuban Intelligence. .Service (CUIS) Agents(and VECIANA gavel. $.).
nae of "Replica" and- "La Verdad" névspapers to furnish.
to the CUIS. Gource | ‘and MECIANA \traveled to th "Replicat(s)

newspaper office in-Miami and there the sour +) an tndaviguer CSD
er tYpeported C5) 3

 

  
   

 

 

by the name of ALDEREGUIA, who( VECIANA had @&
to the sourceSto be working for Cuban Intelligenc® |
Source -advis€d that VECIANA now states thet hALonaecury is Cs

currently working for the Panamanian Government “Intelligence, 7
While at. the "Replica" office, (the eguresdnet with MAX LESNIK Cs).
and ROGER REDONDO, -who-aceor ding ro(the § sour Cs3 e

employees of “Replica” newspaper. mf

      
 

 
 
 

BERETA TS UNCLASSIFIED sscrry
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. :

 
 

s—f7—Skand 4.

= ite. La,
CLA SIFIED BY:

 

   
  
       

  

  

ado, Puerto Rico oe

 

ays

 
     
  

STUART M. HOYT, JR; =
Rimaw “Gupi 77

 

Dole dictated __

 
  
  

the ¢
