oe James.advised that, whil
2 'Séparate | ‘from each other,” inm

this. common,
“pool. halr,

peeeeneen since chagras. vhad: “routinely utilize
.'_ as. their bondsman; ‘howev.
oy thee di wath * “ERS and ais:

0 Secure his bond | in ‘his: Last aru. case. ~ Fahy ;
hagra la er, Replaced | the" Jewelry with. $500, 000. cash: and. A

- Jamés: aise” stated “that. the “Warden at. ‘Leavenworth.
friend. of- James’: -in“the: hallway and-told. him that’
: ferred to! {DY eel lbleck

ay

 

"Decl: 32174920 , Page 8!
a Chagr i 1
= for The Geter oe Woods “however, ~Travi

statements. th

sw is) -eonfidefit that Tfsan
‘Irwin: would have known at*.

 

 
   
 
 
  
 
   

“that. it. occurred: : : ;
Irwin: has - ‘also pélated to- James: that . just prior-“to James! *,

. arrival at. Leavenworth in ‘June’ 1980. Jimny ‘Chagra had ‘told
1 .

    
    
  
   

 
 

; Q

J dge’ Wood, ~ it! was.
1 yo understood by. James: and" Irw t Jimmy: Chagra!s-
statement ‘had: referencé’ to" Hartelson':

. contracts"; é.g. murder. ‘for. hire.

against. Chagra James
individuals

 
 

vee a

SEY, @ @ |

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION : :

; 1. Date of transcription_- 10/2/80
! Jerry Ray James (PROTECT IDENTITY) advised that in
a recent conversation with fellow inmate Travis Irwin on
Wednesday, September 24, 1980, as well as Saturday, September 27,
- 1980, Irwin advised James that he (Irwin) had spoken .to ;
' Jimmy Chagra on September 23 and 24, 1980. - At that time
Chagra told Travis Irwin that Charlie Harrelson was currently
in ‘custody at Houston, Texas, and Harrelson had. previously
written a note allegedly ‘admitting that he (Harrelson) was
responsible for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy,
as well as the murder of Judge Wood. In addition, the note i
was alleged to have stated that while Harrelson personally
and solely assassinated Kennedy, he assisted Larry Culbreath
in the murder of Judge Wood and Culbreath actually fired the
weapon killing the Judge but Harrelson had planned the "hit"
and received payment for this contract. : .

Jimmy Chagra had related these facts to Irwin
shortly after Joe Chagra had visited Jimmy at Leavenworth: ..
on September 23, 1980. Joe Chagra had also stated that the
"note" was currently in the possession of law enforcement
officers and that he (Joe) had a-"contact" with ane of these
officers and was thus able to find out the contents of the
alleged note. The note was supposedly recovered from Harrelson's
pérsonal effects. subsequent to his arrest in early September, 1980.

. Jimmy Chagra also advised Irwin that the final payment
“on the $200,000 assassination fee had just. been made to Harrelson
in the last two or three months at Fl Paso, Texas. This money
had been paid Harrelson but the exact amount of the balance
payment was unknown by Irwin or James.

In conversation with Irwin, James has been able to
determine the facts concerning Jimmy Chagra and his relationship
with Charlie Harrelson. According to Irwin, Jimmy Chagra
first met Charlie Harrelson when both were gambling, perhaps
poker, at. Las Vegas, Nevada, just before Judge Wood was killed
in May, 1979. As a result of this meeting in May, 1979, a
"contract" was given to Charlie Harrelson by Jimmy Chagra -
against the life of Judge Wood. James did not exactly know
how Irwin came to know these facts but believes Jimmy Chagra
had told Irwin. : . ;

Kansas City

 

 

 

. 9/30/80 : Leavénworth , Kansas “rine #89=319=SUB B - a
: Investigation on - at — = = ~ :
? : ‘ pe
by SA Michael P. Shanaharf:aa + pate aictatea__ 10/2/80 : : a
| | 29.8- WO Sul 53¢¢
This document contains néither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property ofthe FBI and-is-loaned to your agency; . ot

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

 

15 ep fo gan note eta, Mein nite eee

 

DocId: 32174310 Page 5
 

a recent esnversation with: fellow’ ‘inmate. Travis ..I
Wednesday » ‘September 24, “1980, as, well’ as Satufday 5. ‘September: 27
‘ Be n. advised . James: that he: (Inwih) had. spoken: to: "1°
Magra. ‘on: September 23. and. 24, ‘1980. At that time”

   
         
 

   

Pesponsibte. for" the. assassination of. President ‘John. Fi "Kennedy, :
as well as the. murder, of Judge’ Wood. .In, addition, ’ the note. .+ 0+
“Was. alleged to “have ‘stated’ that’ while Harrelson personally ; se i
and. solely ‘assassinated Kennedy , che ‘assisted’, Larry. ‘Culbreath,
_ in the murder of Judge Wood and Culp .

     
    
    

eae ‘and. thatt: he’: (Joe). had a "contact",
oe officers. and” Ww.

 
 
 

: ontents of. the es ie
posediy recovened. from Harrelson! 3.

   
 
  
  
 
  

     

: . [immy’ Chagra also. advised. Trewin: that. the final: payment.’
or. the. “$2003 0.0.0 rage ea ae fee. had just been: thade- to Harrelson.

 

   

pagent was unk

Se te) o “Ty ‘conversation with ; -Trwin ,. James Ras: been: @

oe determine the: facts _coneerning Jimmy Chagra.and-his. velationship

with Charlie. Harrelson. * According to ‘Irwin ;' Jimmy”: -Chagra -
‘first. met, Charlie Harrélson when ;both were ‘gambling, perhaps-.
: poker, . at -Las | Vegas 5. ‘Nevada ;. 3 before’ Judge. Wood was "killed °
“in May, 1979." :As° a result of t “meeting:in- May ,. 1979, a. .
"contract". .was ‘given to Charlie. Harrelson’ -by Jimmy. Chagra
" against’ the ‘life of Judgé “Wood. “James ‘did not exactly ‘know

how Irwin came to know. these, facts but believes, Fimny, Chagra. -
. had told. ‘Irwin. : : Lod

 

 

 

  
 
 

   

 

 

 

=e 10/2/80

ae {SL “SEL

he property. of-the FBI.and-is loaned to your agency;

 

~ oo by

 

     
a ° . . e
om F

‘ .

S .

FD-302 (REV. 3-8-77) | eo

€

 

- ad

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1. 10/2/80

Date of transcription.

aa Jerry Ray Sanes (PROTECT IDENTITY) adyised that in
a recent conversation with fellow inmate Travig#® Irwin on

Wednesday, September 24, 1980, as well as Saturday, September 27,

1980,\y Irwin advised James that he (Irwin) had spoken to
Jimmy eres on September 23 and 24, 80. At that time .
Nagra to ravis Irwin that Char jeXtarrelcon was currently
in custody at Houston, Texas, and Harrelson had previously
written a note allegedly admitting that he (Harrelson)ywas
responsible for the assassination ofdpresidenty tony Ff\Kennedy,
as well as the murder of Judge Wood. In addition, the note

was alleged to have stated that while Harrelson peysonally

and solely assassinated Kennedy, he assisted Larr u th

in the murder of Judge Wood and Culbreath actually fired the
weapon killing the Judge but Harrelson had planned the "hit"
and received payment for this contract.

Jimmy agra had related these facts to Irwin

shortly after Toskchagra had visited Jimmy at Leavenworth

on September 23, 1980. Joe Chagra had also stated that the

"note" was currently in the possession of law enforcement

officers and that he (Joe) had a "contact" with ane of these

officers and was thus able to find out the contents of the

alleged note. The note was supposedly recovered from Harrelson's

personal effects subsequent to his arrest in early September, 1980.
1

 

Jimmy Chagra also advised Irwin that the final payment
on the $200,000 assassination fee had just been made to Harrelson
in the last two or three months at El Paso, Texas. This money
had been paid Harrelson but the exact amount of the balance
payment was unknown by Irwin or James.

In conversation with Irwin, James has. been able to
determine the facts concerning Jimmy Chagra and his relationship
with Charlie Harrelson. According to Irwin, Jimmy Chagra
first met Charlie Harrelson when both were gambling, perhaps
poker, at Las Vegas, Nevada, just before Judge Wood was killed
in May, 1979. As a result of this meeting in May, 1979, a
"contract" was given to Charlie Harrelson by Jimmy Chagra
against the life of Judge Wood. James did not exactly know
how Irwin came to know these facts but believes Jimmy Chagra
had told Irwin.

  
  
  
   

 

 

Kansas City ~-
9/30/80
1 I

Leavenworth , Kansas cine eS=STT= = 4
B80 S/S BCC

by SA Michael P. Shanah te dictatea__ 10/2/80

ae
E < ,
| JUN 8 1981 # ‘a
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions oA ANE BH NAO the prdperty of the FBI and-is loaned to your agency;

 

investigation on.

 

 

 
   
 

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside yor

 

?Docla:32174310 Page 2-
 

 

AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER:
RECORD_SERIES:

 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

 

 

 

 

 

a elie

i

AGENCY INFORMATION

 

’ FBI

124-10179-10129
SA
CR 89-250-1-5366

* DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, KC
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 09/30/1980
PAGES: 7
SUBJECT: JFK, EVID, NOTE, ALLEGATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: -

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: — 09/24/1997 UPDATE DATE:
STATUS Redact
RESTRICTIONS:
JEK Act 6 (4)
COMMENTS:

DoclId:32174310 Page 1

DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

02/12/2001
 

     

KC 89-319-SUB B 2.

In conversation between Travis Irwin and Jerry
Ray James, both have discussed the facts which Jimmy
Chagra has told them concerning the murder of Judge Wood.
It is the conclusion of both Irwin and James that Jimmy
Chagra is truthful when he stated that he was responsible
for the death of Judge Wood; however, Travis Irwin doubts
the truthfulness of Harrelson's statements that Larry
Culbreath was the "trigger man" at the murder of Judge Wood.
Irwin has stated to James that he knows "everything Larry
Culbreath has done in his life," and Irwin stated that
Culbreath has denied any participation in the Wood murder
and Irwin is confident that if in fact he (Culbreath) were
involved, Irwin would have known of it by now. James stated
that he trusts Irwin's statements regarding Culbreath and
Irwin thinks of James as a "god" and "looks up to James",
and would not withhold anything from him. James advised Irwin
and Culbreath had grown up together in Texas and have been
friends in excess of twenty years.

eee enn tne ae ree

Irwin had also determined from either Jimmy Chagra
; or Culbreath himself that Culbreath was arrested either the
i day after or two days after the Wood murder while Culbreath
i was driving Harrelson's car from San Antonio to Pleasanton,
i Texas. James did not know the nature of the arrest and only
that it occurred between San Antonio and Pleasanton, Texas.
Irwin has also related to James that just prior to James'
arrival at Leavenworth in June, 1980, Jimmy Chagra had told
him (Irwin) that Harrelson was "good, real good at doing

his job." Since this statement was related to James in the
context of comments about the murder of Judge Wood, it was
mutually understood by James and Irwin that Jimmy Chagra's
statement had reference to Harrelson's ability to "fill
contracts", e.g. murder for hire.

With regard to Jimmy Chagra's solicitation of
Jerry Ray James to procure six or eight individuals to
smuggle marijuana into the United States, as well as the
murder of a former witness against Chagra, James is firmly
convinced that if he refused to locate the individuals
for.either "job" for Jimmy Chagra, Jimmy would reach out
and find someone else to do the work.

 

 

DocId:32174310 Page 3
 

  

 

 

   
   

 

Sagiten sete +

Se Rea ST

“ess Ae epoettes 2

Lar sateen een»

SggE en oh oemmiese percengien:

 

 

 

KC 89-319-SUB B 3.

James advised that while "B" and "p" cellblocks
are separate from each other, inmates are allowed to see
each other in the common area of the main building from
5:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. each day. Located in this common
area are such facilities as the barbership, pool hall,
and card rooms. Travis Irwin would see and talk to Jimmy
Chagra generally in the pool hall area since Irwin has a
cell in "D" cellblock.

James could not offer any explanation as to why
Joe Chagra would be attempting to secure a bond fo
Harrelson since Chagras had routinely utilized Vi

as their bondsman; however, Apodaca is currently in "serious

trouble" with IRS and is under indictment. James stated
that Jimmy Chagra had given Apodaca a sizeable amount of
jewelry to secure his bond in his last drug case. Jimmy
Chagra later replaced the jewelry with $500,000 cash and

eventually "skipped" bond and was a federal fugitive.

James also stated that the Warden at Leavenworth
saw a friend of James in the hallway and told him that
Jimmy Chagra would be transferred to "Dr" cellblock.

DoclId: 32174310 "Page: 4° ° ve Tau ee ee oes
|

ar aaa!
