 

 

Mr. MeCone:

 

Nene what. go éver,

. Senator Stenn

 

I say I. was avoiding the interference

ix the record or éven in thé Committee

put this ic a matter of gudgement and
you certainly don't ee any lessening of

the mllttary strength efter the with-

aN

 

 

 

Baers:

Since the departure of thé last coutingent of the 1-28 vambers and the personnel

aéconponying them, we have observed no significant change in Soviet military forces in

 

Cuba. There have been somé smell Shipments of of nilitery-essoclated transport and a
“number of large erates which could contain addttional, coastal defense cruise misalles

arriving in Cuba, However, there have been no major ¢hangea in the personnel
“pituation, Mi, MoCone’s atetoment that, ‘We ave continually getting intercepts, one _

a8 reqently a8 yesterday, speaking of going. home, but we interpret this from our \ |

 

 

$A confirmed as essentially the

 

rotation of the Intelligence community. On thie basis wi would consider the

 

pregent situation as one of neither build-up nor reduction but rather static.

A Regarding. Mr, MeNamara's statement concerning; "A lessening military y Stes"

 

 

 

wa FE5337 9} PREY F594 Op 298 7

 
 

  
 
  

ening military threat” to the context of

ited States as currently imowm and égtimited

There is no definitive evidence to dhow that. this is a continuing movement

but rather that the movement has been completed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HY 55355 Docld:32424689 Page 40
HW 56829) DocId:32423642 Page 10

 
 

 
  

- ’ . : an Sa vong
validity of another witneda’ testinony,
that is for the judge or the jury to

| . . we decide, and particularly ve wouldn't
\ vant you to have to pads oh Mr.MeNamara's
* gestinony,

But how could there be such. 4

Q

“difference in your testimony? De you

Tiger ett

y : have’ eeeess to the same facta? -

a ‘Mrs MeConet

Yess.

Senator Stennis:

 

Yourself?

eo Me, MeCone:

 

Yes, ve havé access to the same

 

 

 

facts, It ia a matter of judgement,
Senator Stennis: ,

A matter of judgetient only?

 

t have expressed by views and I
think, Mr. Chairman, you Will have to ,
ask Me, MeNamara bow ke yeachéd his
con¢lusions,

Senator Stennis:
tt Le highly commendable thet you~
aid and I was avoiding any péréonal

@onflict between you.

~ Vee

 

 

 

 

 

 

| AW Uns ee ey Carre hae gees 8

 
 

 

HW

 

 

 

 

Soe Steet -

has been reduced by the Disém Baxkation,
Yemoval of about 5,000 tien from Cuba ond
their shipment to the Soviet Union, leaving
a totel of about 17,000 Soviet military
personnel including technicians in Cubs
today: ‘

(. 35 + Special, Guba Briefing, 6 Fed 63)

Question: (Unidentified - Believed to be

Ann Bordone, Northern Virginia Sun)

Me, Secretary, I gather from vhat you
gay thet. in redent weeks Cube has become
less of a wilttery threat to the United

States than 1t was at the time right after

the crisis, after thé misstles and the

bombers were yemoved, léss of a threat in
the dense of, I think you aid, 5,000
Fussiens had returned to the lomaland,

Tt 46 a lessening threat to thé United

* States, from whet. I gather,

WW 55355
29 DocId: 32423642

566

(p.. 50 - Special. Guba Briefing, 6 Feb 63)

  

Cuba is 4 lessening military thréat
to the extent thet the military persorinel

of the Soviet Union and thely equiprient ara

being Yemved. As you point out, 5,000 Soviet

miittary personne) have moved out in the last

eight or nine weeks, end there appeard to be

Bome continuing movement out. What phe .future:

holds, J can't say..

c

DocId: 32424689 Page 7
Page 7

that vere in chargé of these unite and

withdrawal.

‘quoted here in the morning paper,

 

and thé bombers were removed. It te

assumed that this personnel are the ones

neaponstble for them, and also possible
some collateral support end security

forces in connection with those particular
sieapond systems, |

The retioval of the troops o¢curréed
almost concurrently with the removal
of the equipment.

Now, since then we have observed —
what we feel is a relatively static .
situation with, as z said yesterday, .
with dome retetion, We are continually
gotting intercepts, one as recently
aa yesterday, spéaling-of going hone,
but ve interpret this from our observa-

tion es rotational rather than a

Senator Stennis:
If counsel would yield just there;
Mr, Mclenara, that very point there,

about thé Séeretary saying it wes a \
Vi .

 

leséening, here aré his exact vords a6

    

A

Jessening military threat." We have 4
rule in the courtroom thet we won't

gal2,on-one witness to pasé on the
ry r

 
 

 

 

 

AW 56629

55355 Docld:3242
4236

ae

definitive count of frog missiles in Guba or any indleation of outshipment of

., og missiles. Therefore, the estimate of between 24 and 32 feog missiles: .

ix Guba rémaing the beat. figure. Bid should be. noted that this is an ¢etimate
net acount, The estimate is based upon what wae sent ‘by photography coupled
with knowledge of Soviet organization and practice.
On 28 Fecerber 1962. high-level photography revealed ten probable frog
misaile transporters én the dock at Mariel, No frog raiosiles or frog mizaile
launchers were detected, A Saviét merchant ship wae simultaneously phote-
graphed approaching the dock at Mariel on which these transporters were
detected. Photography on 29 December 1962 tevenled no iveg missile trans-

portere or associated equipment an the dock at-Mariel but the merchant ahip a

_ had not departed. Whether the trangporters were loaded aboard this vessel .

and placed in the hold or whether the merchant vegael unleaded additional —

frog migcilea whith were transported by the ten teanaportera to some other

iceation in Cuba, we do act keéw. The presumption by ClA aad the Watch

: - We
Committee wae that the traneporters were loaded aboard the ebip. A®Baced

&

 
 

upon arrangément of transporters, )
GONGLUSIONS:
The estimate of 24 to 32 frog missiles was made on 9 November 1962 and.
vérmaines unchanged.
Mr. Kendell refers to Frog Missiles being ehipped out, Mr. MeCone refers

; Missile Launchers presumably leaded on. a ship, and Mr. MeNamara refers

 
 

ment Associated with Tactical Reeket Unita started to bemoved out, CIA.

and the Watch Committes pretume that the Forg Missile Transporters were loaded

' aboard ship. oom

4689 Page 5
DocId: 32 42> Page 5

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
56629 Docld: 32423642

 

Along with this equipment removed

from Ciba, we estimated that 5,000 Soviet
soldiers and technicinns have also depart+ .
ed tho taland, Remaining tn Cubs, there-
fore, ere thé defensive weapons systems
shown here at their deployed location,
along with the approximately 17,000 Soviet
-tyoops. and techni¢ians;

(p.. 32 = Spectal Cubs Briefing, 6 Feb 63).

in dumary, then, ledies snd. gentle-

meni, ve lavé vécorded the entry of Soviet
offensive weapons systema into Cuba and we
heive reported the introduetion into Cuba

of a gubstantial quantity of Soviet military

pérdontiel and Soviet military equipment,

 

defensive arts, Goviet military personiiel

_ on. the istend, including technieiehs increased,

we believe, to a total of approximately
22,000 by roughly the lst of November:

 

 

What total, 06 Mr. Hughed reported to you,

 

a

 

Mir, MeNemare also indicated
that he considered Cuba to ve a od
‘eseening military threat since ,
ni litary people and equipment are
being moved out. I think this ie 2.
direct quote, "There appears to be
some contimiing movement cut." This
ia contrary to the information at least
f have, My information ie that after
the miséiies end the IL-288 were moved
oltt, With the reduction that you heve
indieated te 5,000 personnel there has
only been @ rotation of people home
end & contimitng movement in of tha
suppites and aparé part and batiup = =~
ammunition for such things as SA-2.

WiLL you comment on that?

 

Mr, MeCone :

Yes, Sir, we observed the withdravel

. of what appears to be about 5,000 men

at the time that the MREMs and the IREMs

 

x

DocId:32424689 Page 6

Page 6

 
 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

SUBJECT: Apparent Contradictions: Mr. McNamara versus Mr. McCone

Tn response to your request, attached are three separate papers
addressing the three apparent contradictions concerning FROG missiles,
-the ‘gtatie situation,” and submarine bases.

Each of these papers presents in sequence the relevant statements
or testimony with an indication of source, the facts pertinent to the
testimony as provided by DIA, and 4 brief conclusion. Some statements
py Mr. Hughes of DIA have been included since these statements are used

as a reference point in your subsequent statements « ‘

 

 
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/12/201

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :

Agency Information

 

OSA .
RECORD NUMBER: _ 198-10001-10011
oo ;
RECORD SERIES: GENERAL COUNSEL'S FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
FROM:
TO: SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
TITLE: APPARENT CONTRADICTIONS: MR. MCNAMARA AND MR. MCCONE
DATE: 00/00/0000
) PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS :
CUBA; LATIN AMERICA; SECRETARY MCNAMARA;
DIRECTOR MCCONE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : — Top Secret
: RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :
OPENING CRITERIA: UPON REVIEW BY APPROPRIATE AGENCIES
COMMENTS : BRIEFING PAPERS/NOTES PREPARED BY STAFF FOR SECRETARY MCNAMARA'S

TESTIMONY TO STENNIS COMMITTEE

 

v9.1

HW 56829

DoclId: 32423642

Page 1
 

Nr. Hughes: (Briefing)
“+ ute photograph was taken of the LeBoos

 

*- Bler area (Mariel) on 27 Dee 62, Again. our

 

 

- s~adreraft are sweeping back and forth and

observed this Soviet ship moving into the

  

“harbor aréa from out in the ocean sector,

at thet time, we also observed parked at

   
  
  

_ dockside 19. probable frog missile trans-
rtere aloig with their support equipment.
is ship pulled in, this eqitpmant was

 

sppatently loaded, and moved away frou the

     
  
  
  
  

a area, ‘This is one of the first
tographe that we have firming up at least
: fact thst done of the Soviet tactical,

ket forces have aéparted the Leland,

_; Recently, ow reconnatesance has

 

Soviet ‘@oubat: forced, namely that. associated

: with the tactical rocket unite, has alse

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HW 55355 Docld:32424689 Page 3
AW 56829 DocId:32423642 Page 3

 

the dock at Martel, F 3 believe, aiid

| Mr, MoGone
My. KendelL:
» MeNemara said also, £ believe,

 

Mr. totem, that the frog misailes weit

 

peing sent back to Russia, There has
been no previotis mention by anyane that -

sry of these have been shipped out, . What.

 

is. your position on this?
Mr. MeCone+
Some six weeks agok we noted th

  

ten or 12 frog misétle leuchers vere on.

 

We

    
  
 

présumably were loaded ona enty,/
gontinusd to eaty the. number of 1
of frog: missiles, and Yaunchers, A
Guba that I mentioned yedterday, whiten 8
vangé ig 2h to 34;
Ne. Clinet

That ig thé misailes. themselves.
Mr. MeCone :

Those are the missiles themselves.

 

Mr, Kendal:

 

 

ave you ever carried more than that.
estimate?

Hr. MeCone 3

 

fT do nét beliaé so, no,
(p. 93-Testimony before. "Stennis Coumittee

 

 
 

 

 

5
AW 56829) DocId:32

 

John Seall, ABG:

Mf. Secretary, you said that certain
equipment associated with the ¢emaining
Soviet forces has started to move out.

. Can you give us some details on that and
"what you think it means? Oo

Mr, McNamara:

 

¥es, I don't wish to over-emphasize

_ this point, I don't wish to mislead you -
inte thinking that there are clear indica-~
tiona that the four Soviet combat forces

. whith I des¢ribed as having on the order
of 1,200 men apiece, roughly 5,000 in total,
are at the present time moving Gut of Cuba.

_ But it is a fact that certain of the equip-

ment formerly assigned to those foréea,
specifically certain of the rocket equipment
has been moved out of Cuba, What this —
implies for the future, I can't state.
(p. 39, Special Guba Briefing)

EACTS:

On 6 November 1962 low-level photography revealed five probable frog miagsile
transporters and two probable frog missile launchers at the Remedios Military Gamp.
On 9 November 1962, a siitth probable transporter was sighted. Based on these figures,
plus the existence of four such major Soviet military camps, it was estimated that
from 24 to 32 frog missiles were probably in Cuba (assuming 3 or 4 missiles per
launcher), Subsequent analysis of all photography to date fails to reveal any

gej NOFORW

 

S535 Docld: 3242
4236

 
