De ond ”
Case: | DUTKANICZ, Joaepty Sgt. al
a 9. June’ 1926: ; .
Gorlice,. Poland” :
Hostile service: - Soviet: “Intelligence
: re Services (SIS); oe
- probably. State. i),
Security. Service’ (eB)

“ {ntelligence: in “West “Germany jusing 1958. ~ A conbination of: ‘threats: and:
_lnducenents' were. used to gain. his cooperation. - He admits having, had

celains he supplied only” limited information to the KGB.

Dy substantial indications “that. the compromise , was “geeater

Dat andez? 8 peinedpal mission was te report, changes. in the’
iSpogition. of: USARBUR forces indicating Pogstble prepurattor

Dutkanica: claims he. was approached by “KGB ‘personnel. in “195

.ar nk ing in a bar at Crumstadt,. near varmstadt. “In the initial:

ersation, a combination of ‘threats and inducements were “used t

promise of cooperation.’ The- threats were mostly ‘implied: an
directed against relatives in ‘Poland, his" immediate: family’ ‘in West”.
Germany and Luitkanics personally. “Inducements consisted of. ‘promise
asaist Telatives, oaiding,pontna ‘the: Iron; ‘urtains He also; admits,

 

 
     
   
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
  

Ff controlling agency was the KGB. ° ‘He admits: chaving ¢ four: neetings, with’
the KGB representatives, who were allegedly from Vienna, . Austria
‘during the period 1958 to 1960. He was furnished an accommodation
address which ‘he no longer remembers and ‘was: _gdven. secret. writin,
materials. “He claims to. have ‘sent only four letters to the accomn
dations address and he alleges: to “have: ‘furnished only negative.

. imminence reports. ae Doel oe “

   
 

: 7 Stn May 1960 Dutkanicz thforied his SIS handler that he y was: being:
ee _ snyeatigated for ‘security reasons and he was’ advised to apply for:
: leave and defect with his wife and family to, the USSR via Austria, ana
Czechoslovakia. ‘Dutkanic2” “complied. with the instructions. Contact’.
‘with’ KGB representatives was*established on 26 June 1960 in Bratislava,”
’ Czechoslovakia, a short distance from Vienna. -He ‘and his family. ‘then
drove to Lvév, USSR, with a Soviet escort. He. was. subsequently ; .
- exploited by the Soviets for _propaganda purposes. The actual Propacenda
, material was prepared by the KGB: based on details furnished by ~ .

 

  

 

 

Dutkanicz. In’ March 1962 the Soviets permitted his wife to return to
. the: United” States,. but the children were retained in: the. USSR. Dutkanicg

' + --was allowed to accompany his wife to the. US,Embassy in Moscow for making |
the necessary preparations | for her return. ‘During this period Dutkanicz
“made a. statement. concerning his espionage activities in behalf of? the
_KGB. : Dob :

Cee a! USAREUR Comment

       

 
 

: ‘Although Dutkaniee' 8 confession was ‘obtained under unudual:
-stances, his statements appear substantially true-although’ obviously” *,
“dncompleta. “A strong possibility exists that he worked for tho ‘KGB for*
_a longer period than he admits, and it is:probable that Dutkanicz pro
“wided. ‘the. KGB with. considerably more’ information than negative immineneé
.reports. His statement that his SIS»recruiters. were from Vienn :
possibly sorrect and is supported by his alleged defection. ‘route. : His
statement that he. refused payment from jthe “SIS seems unlikely, since, he®
reportedly - ‘was spending considerable ‘amounts of ‘money before; his: ‘defecti
The case is of unusual ‘significance since it constitutes one: of. the ‘most
; serious known’ penetrations of. USAREUR forces by hostile. inte114 gence;
Also: important is the fact that Dutkanica's defection | was apparently.

   

    
  
 

  
   
  
 
  

 
       
  
 
   
 

   
[O4- fons 10316

NARA IDENTIFICATION AID- , Rue

Document Print Date 6/18/1993

 

AgencyName

AgencyNumber 0

DiskNo 0

ControlNo 0

Document id number  1993.06.18.17:27:15:900000

Recseries JFK

Agfileno 201-289248

JFK Box # OSW11

Vol/Folder V51

Title CASE SUMMARY OF SOVIET ARMY DEFECTOR SGT. JOSEPH
. DUTKANICZ > \

Tirest LN . ( Gt

Document Date [ 10/2/1964. an MAR er nite)

‘Whofrom “HQ USAREUR/INTEL DIV/PRODUCTION BR.

Fromrest ; N

Whoto

Torest

Numpg 2 .

Originator “peS Aw Atom

Daterev

Classify U

Curstat SAN

Doctype PAPER

RCL . 0

RC2 1

RC3 0

RC4 0

RCS 0

RC6 0

RC7 0

Comment FRREPORT FROM USAREUR. ATT 1 TO SX-4617.

Keywords : DUTKANICZ, J.

USSR DEFECTOR

DocId:32278009 Page 2
 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/28/201
Identification Form
Agency Information
AGENCY: CIA
RECORD NUMBER :* 104-10005-10316
RECORD SERIES: JFK
AGENCY FILENUMBER:  201-289248
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: DOD
FROM: HQUSAREUR/INTEL DIV/PRODUCTION BR. -
TO:
TITLE: CASE SUMMARY OF SOVIET ARMY DEFECTOR SGT. JOSEPH DUTKANICZ
\
DATE: — 00/00/1964 ;
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
DEFECTOR, USSR
DUTKANICZ, JOSE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B
CURRENT STATUS:  Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 06/18/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : OSW11:V51 1993.06.18.17:27:15:900000: REPORT FROM USAREUR. ATT 1 TO SX-4617.

vol:

DoclId:32278009 Page 1
'EBOA ~ i262

 

Case Sunary: 2-62-42 :

  
 
  
  
     
  
 
 
   
  
  
   

  

e: DUTKANICZ, Josepf, Sgt.” - Date(s) of detivaty: 1958-1960
9 June’ 1926 mo -
Gorlicey. Poland a Pps » Date: Neutralized: “N/A:

   
  
   
   
     

Ho tile Service: Soviet ‘Intelligence
poe Services (sis),

probably State

Security. Service: (803)

 

Target

   

‘usansun Fores

   

 

“Dutkanice elaine. he ‘was recruited by representatives of; Suviet. .
‘4ntelligence: in West Germany.-during : ‘19580 ° A combination of: throats’ a
' inducements! were. used to gain. his cooperation. He admits having: had
.fsur meetings with his Soviet handlers’ during’ a two-year, period,, ‘but.
claims he supplied only limited information to, the KGB. There are
“ever, substantial indications * thatthe compromisé was greater. “His:
“espionage activity was terminated by. his defection to the USSR in June
1960. He was. subsequently exploited for propaganda purposes: {by.. “th
Scviets. Details: of his ‘complicity were obtained. from statements made,
by) Dutkanica to US. officials in. Moscow.

 

 

 

   

 
  

    
   
   
 
    
      

  

Bar and V assienmonts

ubhunies" 8 _principal mission waa to “report changes in “the! “etatus -

  

Sts ‘ahich probably included ‘additional’ collection EET, bat he. oan the
. elaberate. en these missions. : . . wo

 

“Recrui tment and” Modus Operands |

 

    
 

 

 

“Dutkanicz, | “naturalized Us “citizen born in Polena, ‘was. shippod
Germany in.1943 asia slave: laborer and immigrated, to the Uriited’ States.
aftor World War: Ili” Ne wassdrafted into. the US Army ‘in 1952 and.
sergeant in‘the 3and Signal Battalion, ‘Darmetadt, at tho. time:
defection. He is a convinced liberal and has espoused ‘leftiet catine
which led to. a review and. ‘revocation of his SECRET. clearance in January |
1960. :

 
   
      
     
  

    
 

 

 
  
    
 
   
 
 
 

 
  

    

Dutkanies claims he. was approached by KGB pereonnel, in 1958: while
drinking in a bar at Crumstadt,. neur Varmstadt. “In the initial. con
versation, a combination of threats and inducements were ‘used to"
“his. premise | of cooperation.:: The threats were mostly implied. and.
“direc ted against relatives in Poland, his” immediate. family” in: West.
‘Germany ‘and Latkanics personally: Inducements consisted of “promises ,
“assist relatives residing behind the. Iron Surtain. .He also admite. having
_ been offered money on ‘several occasions, but he allegedly" refused to.” :
» accept payment for his espionage activities,- *Dutkanicz clains that tho

— A DOCUMENT IDENTICAL To THIS
“+ (WAS APPROVED FOR POLRASE pi
alla Ug fay
TreT 4. X= 4619 -

Doclda: 32278009 Page 3

   
    
 
 
 
      
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

   
 

controlling agency was the KGB. He admits having four meetings with
the KGB representatives, who were allegedly from Vienna, Austria,
during the period 1958 to 1960. He was furnished an accommodations |
address which he no longer remembers and-was given secret writing —
materials. He claims. to have sent only four letters to the accommo-
dations address and he alleges. to have furnished only negative :
imminence reports. ‘

: : In May 1960 Dutkanicz informed his ‘SIS handler that he was. being
_ : investigated for security reasons and he was advised to-apply for ;

- leave and defect with his wife.and family to the USSR via Austria and
Czechoslovakia. Dutkanic2 ‘complied with the instructions. Contact’
with KGB representatives was “established on 26 June 1960 in Bratislava,
Czechoslovakia, a short distance from Vienna. He and his family then
drove to Lvov, USSR, with a Soviet escort. He waa subsequently

_ exploited by the Soviets for propaganda purposes. The actual propaganda
. '- material was prepared by the KGB based on details furnished by =). :
; Dutkanicz. In March 1962 the Soviets permitted his wife to return to ~

‘the United States, but the children were retained in the USSR. -Dutkanicz
was allowed to accompany his wife to the US Embassy in Moscow for: ‘making
the necessary preparations for her return, During thie period Dutkanicz
made a statement concerning his espionage activities in behalf of the
KGB. .

 

is AREUR Comment

et . Although Dutkanicz's confession waa obtained under unusual circun-.
: ' stances, his statements appear substantially true although obviously:
incomplete. A strong possibility exists that he worked for tho KGB for -~  .'
. a longer period than he admits, and it is probable that Dutkanicz pro-*
- wided the KGB with considerably more information than negative imminence
“reports. His statement that his SIS. recruiters were from Vienna:is
. possibly correct and is supported by his alleged defection route. His
statement that he refused payment from ,the SIS seems unlikely, since he-
reportedly was spending ccnsiderable amounts of money before. his defection.
The case is of unusual significance since it constitutes one ‘of. the most
serious known penetrations of USAREUR forces by hostile intelligence.
Also important is the fact that Dutkanicz's defection was apparently |:
"instigated by the Soviets for propaganda purpose after he. lost access -
to. ‘sensitive information, a : . : “E :

 

   

   

Additional reports will be preperga as information becomes available.

 

. . ros Lae a
PREPARED BY PRODUCTION BRANCH, INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, “iQ. USAREUR, : en CO

, APO 403, US FORCES 7 hee an oe

 

— eSORMeEN 20] D89LYE ©
7 JCS copy EGO 1826212 —

DocId:32278009 Page 4
