 

 

would make the propogal unacceptable to the Soviets, In any such
proposal, however, the risk that the Sovieta may station volunteers
or disguised units within East Germany must be recognized,

d, An agreement providing for control posts, acrial surveillance,

and a reduction of foreign troops in Europe, and removal of weapons

of mass destruction from Gerroany, There appear to be no satisfactory
methods for determining the yicld of a nuclear warhead by verification |
procedures that would be accepinbla from a security (restricted data)
point of view. Further, there is uo present indication of Soviet :
weapons of mags destruction in East Germany. Therefore, this
proposal has disadvantages to NATO with no compensating gains.
It i9 thus militarily unacceptable and should not be negotiated, —

  

ae ' 6, On 13 August, Mr. Nitze forwarded a supplementary memorandum
~~ and requosted that a further alternative bo explored, It would include air-
fields among the observation posts, would climinate aerial inspection, 7
and reduce forces by one-third in Germany rather than in Europe, After
evaluation, the Joint Chiefs of Staff have reached these conclusions: It ,
would bo most desirable to include airfieids in the array of observation
posta. Aerial inspection should not be eliminated. The reduction of , 7
. foreign forces by one-third in Gexmaay should be opposed since the reduction |
- of US forces of such a magnitude ie not militarily acceptable at this time =
because it could destroy tho military and political cohesion of the Alliance,
The Soviet proposal could be modified and rade acceptable militarily if
any troop reduction wae undefined in magnitude at this point in time and
was made subject to negotiation following a successful poriod of operation |
of effective observation posts and serial inspection, Alternately, it could »
be made acceptable by reducing foreign troops in East and West Germany
to five divisions, if the reductions were made as discussed earlior.

7. Any agreement on the establishment of aerial inspection, observation .
posta, and related matters will require agreement in principle with our ,
Allies prior to further exploration of basic Sovict views. Before either
of these stops is undertaken, the specific conditions of implementation
tho United. States would profer must be determined, With respect to
.obgorvation posts, this should include the types and locations of posts, and ;
“the composition of the observer teams, The study now being carried out) =)
“for tho Joint Chiefs of Staff will provide a basis for a more detailed US :

 

 

©

 

0

“position on these aspects of the problem. The Joint Chiefs of Staff do not
boliove the Hot of suggested posts in the 11 April 1962 paper is adequate, —

   

  

and they cannot endorse it for negotiating purposes...

  
 

 

   

HW 49061 Docld:326263138 Page 5
 

SEE

8. Based on the analysis above, tha Joint Chiefs of Staff belleve that
the United States should offer a comprehonsivo alternative to the Sovist .
proposal which would proclude the possibility of NATO's becoming
immodiately involved with the Soviets in discussing troop reductions in
_ Europo or removal of weapons of macs destvuction from Germany. Wo
should sook a proposal that is more corapatible with NATO political
sensitivities and military planning. The US proposal should be based on
» ‘tho fundamental principle that the first step toward agreoment botweon 7 ‘
the two blocs should be that of acquizing agreod knowledge of the military
* gorcos and movements of tho other sido, it should set forth as this initial
atop a comprohonsive control and inspection plas for the NATO and Warsaw .
Pact areas, Roduction in forces would follow latory. The inspection arcs
should include os wide an area a5 possible, Aoxial inspection, observation .
posts with team mobility, and ovorlapping radar coverage should be included.”
{hero should bo, however, no control os inspection of nucloar weapons ;
as such; inspection procedures rather should concentrate on delivery moana ye
- and vehicles, , . :

9. The Joint Chiofs of Stnff bolicve that a plan along the lines outlined ©
in the precoding paragraph would bo moze acceptable than any of the
altornatives discussed above. Ite principal advantages aro that itis

~.. Hmited in scope but, at the sams time, it provides for a reduction in the
‘causes of tension and a basta for testing Soviet intentions concerning
future moro significant steps, The Joint Chiefs of Staff therefore recome
mend that a plan along these lines bo ovaluated as the United States |
preforred negotiating position for coordination with our Allies.
: . hie : nan

- For the Joint Chiefs of Staff:
i - — Sigried -
MAXWELL D.. TAYLOR

, Chairman
Joint Chiefs of Staff.

 

 

 

 

re eee ce ne tenet tn a RC er My

HW 49061 DocId:32626318. Page 6 OO ; ae
aoe : : : 39

 

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

 

_JCSM+685-63
3 September 1963

‘MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

Subject; US-USSR Negotiations on the Establishment of
Observation Posts and Related Matters (U)_ ,

1, By memoranda, dated 10 and 13 August 1963, the Assistant
Secretary of Defense (ISA) requested the views of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff on several alternative possibilities for negotiating an agreement to
establish observation poate in NATO and Warsaw Pact areas,

 

2. Inhis 10 August memorandum, Mr.. Nitze asked specifically that

-the Joint Chiefs of Staff review the current US position on ground and aire.
field observation posts as found in the 11 April 1962 "US Position Paper -—
on Measures to Reduce the Risk of War by Accident, Miscalculation, :
Failure of Communications, or Surprise Attack," In their review of
‘March of 1962:(JCSM-170-62), the Joint Chiefs of Staff had no specific
reservations concerning that portion of the position paper which dealt

with the establishment of observation posts, but they did stress that before
seeking agreement with the Sovicts, the basic concepts of the paper should

* be fleshed out, with assistance from our Alles.

 

. SO poche

3. In line with these earlier vicws and to prepare for the approaching ou ;

discussions in NATO on these matters, the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, . yd

has directed that an outline plan for observation posts be developed. When
approved by proper authority, this study could then provide a basis for the

It will list 4

US negotiating position on this aspect of the negotiations. 4
preferred locations of observation posts for NATO, with suggested priorities ou

s _ wherever feasible, and will list certain type areas where Warsaw Pact.
-sposts in NATO territory should not be located, It will spell out the functions
| of the observation poste’ teame and will also suggest the manning and

“gn: equipment for each of the various types of posts and teams. Finally;, it will

 

 

 

    

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR
INTERVALS; NOT AUTOMATICALLY
DECLASSIFLED. DOD DIR 5200.10

aera
= “—-
Lt ,

 

 

 

  

 

| zs

NW 49061 ‘Docld: 32626318 Page 3_ a ; 3777

 

 
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10216
RECORD SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ,
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 9/3/1963
PAGES :-4°5~
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000 ©

OPENING CRITERIA : a
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63. Box 4.

HW 49061 DocId:32626315 Page 1-
oN.

 

49061

 

address the degree and type of advan 1d

  
 
 

maneuvers necessary for the succ:
and compatible with US military co

   
  
  

4, This study will be forwarded ts you var
and until the alternative negotiating 5

 

tiea have been thoroughly
evaluated, it is recommended that tha Dep artment of Defense take the
position that the United States should not initiate detailed negotiations with
our Altea, « or with the Soviet Union.

5. In his 10 August memorandum, Mr, Nitze also requested that the -
Joint Chiefs of Staff analyze certain alternatives to the 28 November 1958
Soviet proposal, Each of the alternatives is discussed briefly below:

a, Agreement Umited to control posts alone, Although Mmiting

‘agreement to control posts alone would reduce considerably the
- possibility of detecting a rapid concentration of forces for a surprige
_ attack, the éstablishment of such posts would be militarily acceptable ©
- asa separate arms control agreement if (1) the control posts were ©
located and allowed to operate s6 as to provide optimum safeguards

against surprise attack and (2) the procedures for advanced notificas .

tion, if any, were restricted to military movements directly related .
to NATO and did not include NATO-assigned submarine movements
or unilateral US force deployments outside the Allied Command
Europe-Warsaw Pact area or NATO naval movements,

b. Agreement limited to control posts plus aerial photopraphy.

The United States should seek this proposal in preference to the
previous one, with the aerial surveillance being carried out in the
defined area on a 24-hour, all-weather basis, with no restriction on

sensing equipment, With respect to the defined area, the Soviet 1958 me

proposal suggested an aerial photography zone in Europe extending
800 kilometers to the east and west of the dividing line between the
NATO and Warsaw Pact armed forces, and also in Greece, Turkey,
and Iran, If these three countrics are to be included, the border ©
areas confronting them should iikewise be’included, As a general
rule, the United States should attempt to make the zone for aerial
“observation as large as possible. In addition, negotiations on ground
observation posts should seek provision for the use of unarmed aire
craft to augment the capability of those posta. ; — .

2

 

   

 

DocId: 32626318 Page 3

ly in September. Until then,

ron

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

re , Sa~hi-

 

wx \ : . e

nee .
wi :

 

c. Agreement providing icv control poste, aerial photography,
_ and a reduction of foreign troops in Iurope, The United States should -

\ Oppose any major reduction or limitation of NATO forces in Europe
until the causes of world tenis .veé been reduced and an adequate
verification system to police any force reduction agreement has been
agreed upon and is in operation. An avreement on observation posts
could be a first step toward achievement of this objective. Further,
all proposals to reduce troops in Europe must be carefully analyzed
to insure that they do not place NATO at a military disadvantage
because of the shorter Soviet military lines of communication, and
the resultant relative ease with which they could reintroduce their *
forces into Europe. Assuming a reduction in the causes of world
tensions, any major reductions would also have to be evaluated in
terms of their impact on NATO strategy and force planning. A

ms significant general purpose force reduction will result in a greater
— roliance upon nuclear weapons and could lead to a downward trend -
in Europe's defense efforts. at a time the United States is encouraging
further build- ~up of forces. os ey

  
  

oc»
ans

With specific reference to Mr. Nitze's request for evaluation

of a proposal to reduce all foreign troops in Europe to five divisions

_ on each side, such an agreement might be militarily acceptable under

' the. terms described below if it followed establishment of obser vation
posts, aerial surveillance (because of the increased importance of
having early warning of enemy concontrations), and their as sociated
adequate verification procedures. if adopted in the near future, the
proposal would result in the withdrawal from West Germany to
within their national boundaries of approximately six plus divisions --.
two plus British, two French, two Belgian. As proposed, it should ;
entail no substantial reduction in US ground forces, ‘It would, however, ©
clearly add to the relative burden of the United States and probably
would be domestically unsatisfactory, particularly to the Congress.
An alternative to be explored should allow for some reduction of US
forces with other Allies moving forward to replace them,

 

The Soviets, to satisfy the terms of the proposal, would have
to withdraw 15 divisione from East Germany. With arrangements for
rapidly moving NATO forces into their pogitions in times of tension,

NATO thus could conceivably raake 2 relative gain from an agreement
oi this kind, At any rate, the proposal has enough advantages to

NATO to warrant its consideration in conjunction with our Allies, at
the appropriate time, although the imbalance in the reductions probably

?
5

 

“3

 

AW 49061 DocId:32626318 Page 4
