 

eae wo pete 3 : tees enter eee ene ,
PB nn ee :

 

. SECRET
three hundred multiple-warhead weapons on targ:t. No such large scale programs
could be clandestinely executed. .

If one did not have to be concerned with substantial AEM and civil defense
programs, it would be possible to assure wacceptable demage without hardened
multiple or multi-megaton warheads.. 150 one-megeton warheads (of say 500 lbs
weight) on target would certainly be eble to demolish the fifty leading ,
industrial and population centers of the USSR and leave a resérve for contin-
geneles.

Soviet cities are, of course, only one pert of the target structure as
presently understood. Other main components » and their implications for
disarmament, are as follows: ,

: &. The Soviet Nuclear Threat. In present war plers, Soviet bombers

end missiles and their supporting bases are the highest priority class of
targets. If strategic forces are stabilized at anything approaching parity,
counterforce targetting probably. will be less and less remunerative. Depending
on vulnerability of the opposing forces, some reduction of enemy capabilities
may continue to be attractive as a firstestrike objective 3 but the level of
reduction achieved probably could not be decisive. To make strategic bases
less compelling second-strike targets, missile refire or bomber recycle capa
bilities might be controlled.

b. Other Military Capabilities. Certain tactical airfields and general
wilitery targets in Europe are now targetted by SAC. These could just as well
be covered by European theater forces, if survivable weapons systems were
peovided SACEUR. A consistent set of categories would have to be corstructed for

the disarmament agreement in order to prevent strategic force limitations from

injuring the position of NATO vis-a-vis the Warsaw Pact countries.
. 8.

SECRET

   

HW 49061 DocId:42626321 Page 9
 

SECRET

The conclusion here séems to be thet, provided thester forces are
considered separately, one alternative would be to relate the number of strategic
weapons more or less directly to the urben-industrial (second-strike retaliatory)
target structure.

What number of permitted strategic delivery vehicles, then,would be necessary
to essure the ability to detonete 150 warheads on target? The answer is a

- function of the survivability of the vehicles and their reliability. Lf one -
assumes @ reliebility of .66 (in other words, two out of three surviving
vehicles could be expected ‘to reach target with adequate accuracy) > we would
then ‘have a requirement that 225 of our vehicles be able to survive any counter-
force attack the Soviets could aspire to mount with (a) their permittea vehicles,
(>) vehicles not declared, “vehicles clendestinely produced, and vehicles con- ;
verted from civil aircraft, etc., and (c) -vehicles produced during any. time gap
achieved by preparation for hostile abrogation . No precise computation of the -

starting number of U. Se vehicles required, is Possible; too many variables are”
involved. 500 vehicles would, however, not seem to be an unreasonable figure,

If both sides were limited to permitted delivery vehicles with a litting..
capacity sufficient only for one megaton warheads » & fantastic improvenent in...
present day stendards of eccuracy and reliability would be needed to. give, the
Soviets confidence in teking out one of our hardened missiles without devoting
at ‘least three to the task. (A 1 MT weapon with a CEP of i; i 1M would have 12h
chance of severely damaging a hoo PSI Silo). If .a method coula be devised to
limit guidance systems to a CEP no less than one mile at inter-continentel range,
they would have to devote about 30 missiles. to take out one of ours. In any case,

such of our missiles as were in Polaris submarines at sea would be comparatively

-9%
SECRET.

 

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 10

 
 

SECRET
ermitted Soviet vehicles, plus vehicles which could escape detection plus
vehicles which could be produced and depl oyed during eny tine gop in rearmament
vy clandestine Soviet Preparation for sbrogation. US forces should be able to
survive in sufficient volume to penetrate to at least 50 Sovi et cities with
sufficient weight to wreak very great destruction on these cities end cause
casualties of at least 10% of the Soviet population.
Such a solution would pots however, make any substantial contribution
to the objective steted in’ III A 2 a. above of significantly reduci: ng the
possible size and weight ‘of a Soviet ettack below what is now projected
without a SFSDA. The USSR coulda theoretically opt for missiles of 100 MT
or larger size up to its full permitted number if ‘only numbers are to veo
limited. Within any plausible ratio of Soviet mimbers to US nuttbers ; say 50% .
of the US permitted figure, the weight of a Soviet attack could be virtually
totally: devastating. Therefore, more complex solutions must be considered,
Two measures which would greatly increase the certainty of effective
US retaliation within lower numbers would be measures prohibiting the deploy-
went of ABM Systens or prohibiting the construction of elaborate (elvil defense

shelters. (Of these two categories prohibition of ABM Systems would have ‘Less.

 

problems since it is psychologically more difficult for a nation to deny its
citizens the basic individual security of civil defense.) Both of these measures
could be reasonably well nonitorea through unilateral surveillance and intel
ligence. The cost of a  stretegically significant ABM system would be, of the
order of magnitude of at least 10 to 20 billion dollers. A significant shelter ”
sonstruction program would also be costly, Both would probably be necessary sub-
stentially to reduce the destruction and casualties to be expected even, from two or

|

-T-

SECRET

 

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 8
SECRET

Ley]

> Other Variables
_ Inportent variables in analyzing the optimum solutions to these objectives
are the assumptions es to the general political context including the possible
impact of arms control measures on ow European allies, the provisions of
other portions of the SFSDA and the degree of inspection which is considered
desirable or negotiable. This paper assumes that a SFSDA will not come into
being except after, or concurrently with, a comprehensive test ban agreement, a
comprehensive non-diffusion agreement, some improvement in the Berlin-German
Reunification situation and other points of immediate high risk. ‘The variables
in other parts of the SFSDA will be taken up as they appear perts nent. Different
solutions will be proposed for a high inspection case, a medium inspection case
and a low inspection case.
4. How many?
‘Some number of permitted U.S. ‘strategic delivery vehicles between
100 and 1000, should assure the U.S. a high order of counter city, Class I
Deterrence, provided the number permitted the Soviets were sualler or, et
least, no greater. :
Let us assume no controls over Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Systems,
,50 control over civil defense programs, no control over nuclear materials or
warheads and a low level of permitted inspection. At the upper range of the
; Suggested numerical linit, say 1000 weapons > Ut should still be possible
for us to create a mix of super-hardened, dispersed, iarge, multiple-warhead
missiles, plus Polaris submarines plus dispersed or air-borne planes with
improved air-to-surface missiles which would be able adequately to survive any
‘conceivable Soviet attack. Such a Soviet attack must be assumed to include the
6

SECRET

 

 

 

HW 49061 Docld: 32626321 Page 7

 
 

 

 

SECRET

forces and under 211 but the most favorable cirewastences the percentage

of the U.S. population expected to be casualties efter a nuclear exchange might
exceed that of the USSR. Under no foreseeable circumstances, however, could the USSR,
even if it struck first, have high confidence in ending the initial exchanges
with a superiority in surviving strategic forces.

In the absence of arms control the U.S. should therefore be able, at
least through 1968, to maintain a very credible deterrent, a deterrent adequate,
not only to protect the U.S. ageinst a@ premeditated nuclear attack (Class I
Deterrence), but also to keep low the risks of escalation the Soviets could
predently face in bringing pressure against Europe or in support of their ;
policy in other areas vital to the West (Class IT Deterrence). The sacrifice
of this advantage in eny SFSDA would have to be weighed egainst US nonzero
sum and other zero-sum gains. .

2. Objectives

In considering the strategic nuclear delivery vehicle part of a SFSDA
the ‘follwing U.S. objectives come to mind:

a. To reduce the size, weight, and likelihood of success of a
Seviet strike against the US or its allies.

b. While doing so, insure against unacceptable risk to our security,
or to that of our allies, through cheating, including withholding of un~_
declared weapons, ‘clandestine production, or improvement of weapons, and
abrogation with the purpose of gaining a significant time advantage in
vearmament. _ =

‘Discussion

if both sides reduce the size and weight of their r Strategic attack

4

SECRET

 

Poo eg MER Tt A A NT ENT

AW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 5

 
 

 

SECRET
capabilities, it should be possible to retain and even enhance Type I Deterrence.
As the strategie forces are brought under control, major instabi Lities resulting
from the psychology of the arms race should diminish. Decreased concern on
either side about the survivel of its retali etory force should remove lingering
incentives toward, or fears of, premeditated attack against one another.

The same course could seriously damage Western deterrence in Type II :
situations to the extent it ‘is based on quantitative superlority. Compensations
would have to be sought in arrangements either contained in the “disarmament
‘treaty or permissible under the treaty. These might involve (1) a full
spectrum of deterrence below the strategic level, and/or (2) capabilities for *
deliberate, selective, controlled response. 7

None of the reductions contemplated would reduce the possible destruct-_
iveness of an all-out ver, ‘ if it occurs, even close to the levels known through
World War If. - Since it takes relatively few missiles to target the: major ‘eities
on either side, and since cubstentiel fractions of each side's missiles are
targettea on each other's ‘strategic forees mutually agreed rednetions in
their number could proceed with little effect on the number of cities which -
wight be at risk to resiéuel forces. The casualties experienced in any actual
war perhaps would be reduced somewhat because of (1) reduction in colleterel
demage with diminished counterforce exchange » and (2) decreased manber of
nuclear detonations in any one area resulting from lower damage expectancies
because of smaller force levels. In other words , the number of nuclear hostages
might be better controlled at roughly the level considered necessary for ef-
fective deterrence. The level of prospective own damage (in terms of percentages
of population casualties or of industrial destruction) at which the USSR would

certainly be deterred is an arguable figure: Tt is probably higher for the USSR

than for the US. -5 -

SECRET

     

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 6

 
 

 

“CONSIDERATIONS mvoueD INA SUPARABLE FIRST STAGE
: ISARMAMEN? AGREEMENT .
; 1 October 19463 --
I

INTRODUCTION

The discussion within the Administration concerning a Separable 1st
Stage Disarmament Agreement (hereafter referred to as SFSDA) has been unsatisfac-
tory because the parties to the debate have started from divergent positions.
One school has tended to look et the problen primarily from the standpoint
of ‘what appears to be negotiable with the Soviets judged primarily in the context _
of the Geneva negotiations or, if not negotiable, of what would have favorable
propaganda implications for the United States. Another school has become
‘convinced that none of the Separable 1st Stage proposals 60 far suggested are
to the U.S. interest but has tried to accommodate (within the Limit that. no
such SFSDA be actually agreed to) to the propaganda demands of our situation at
Geneva. <A third school has held that the USG should seek out and analyze
the substantive elements of potentially desirable SFSDAs, ones the U.S. could
live with, before considering the tactical and propaganda issues of negotiation
(whether at Geneva or in other forums). .
This paper, endeavors to continue the evaluations of the latter school. It
aces first with certain basic considerations, second with the four main
substantive elements: - strategic systens, conventional forces, tactical systems,
and concurrent political developments and only indirectly with the tactics of

negotiation.

      
   

  

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR
INTERVALS; NOT AUTOMATICALLY
DECLASSIFIED. DOD DIF 5202.10

SECRET

 

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10221
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files:William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 10/1/1963 :
PAGES iy
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63. Box 4.

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 1
 

   

SECRET

II

BASIC CONSIDERATIONS —

Thé fact without which the entire disarmament effort vould have
collapsed long ago, is thet control and reduction of armaments can benefit
both sides, that it is not entirely a zero sun game. But in part it is a
zero sum game; what improves the relative position of one side, harms the
relative position of the other. The Soviets will certainly attempt to
optimize their reletive position. ‘Yot only must we attempt to optimize ours
as an offset to their attempt, but also to offset a very real asymmetry in
the position of the two blocs: We proclaim, and are, a defensive alliance;
they proclaim and are an offensive alliance » in which the debate is only as
to the level of violence to be used in pursuing the aims of the alliance.

Our task in devising a SFSDA is therefore complex. It involves fully ex- oo
ploiting the potential of the non-zero sum aspects of arms control (those

which benefit both the USSR and ourselves) while preserving or improving

the relative Western position in the zero sum aspects.

Principal U.S. interests are: (1) the maintenance of our ability .
to contain Soviet or Chinese expansion; (2) a reduction in the risk of
nuclear war, either from escalation of undeterred Soviet or Chinese
expansionism under (1) above or in the form of a direct nuclear ettack on
the U.S. or its allies, and (3) a reduction in the destructiveness of nuclear
war should it nevertheless occur, ana (4) continuation of the prospect that -

US (nuclear and other) forces surviving a nuclear war would be able to ensure

SECRET

 

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 3
 

 

 

SECRET

@ settlement of hostilities favorable to the United States.

Principal Soviet interests are: (1) a reduction in the prospect that the
U.S. might escalate to general muclesr war a local confrontation resulting
“tron what the Soviet leadership would consider the inevitable expansion
of the area of Communism; (2) a reduction in the prospect that U. 8. military
forces surviving a nuclear war would allow the US to dictate terms of
settlement of hostilities and (3) a reduction in the destructiveness of
mucleer war should it nevertheless ocow. From the Soviet standpoint very
substantial cold war gains could occur if we failed to préserve our objective
4) while they succeeded in achieving their objective (1). In such a situation
they could expect a rapid dissolution of NATO and e loosening of the ties
holding together.the forces standing in the way of clear Communist domination
of the European-Asia land mass. They could then concentrate their full effort
oa securing their primacy over their Chinese "partners".

IIT

THE FOUR SUBSTANTIVE ELEMENTS OF THE PROBLEM

A. The Strategic Nuclear Relationship
1. Present Trends

Projections through 1968 of programmed U.S. strategic forces, on the
One hand, and NIE estimates of Soviet forces, on the other, indicate that -
without arms control the U.S. should be able to maintain a 2 to 3-fola .
superiority in numbers of intercontinental alert weapons » and a superiority
in the average survivability factor of those forces. . The megatonnage of
the Soviet strategic forces may, however, come to exceed those of the U.S.

3

SECRET

     

Speen pete cA TA ENE NC MER OTE TEATRO ANA ST ON

HW 49061 DocId:32626321 Page 4
