 

° . ° o
pele ~ 7 Ge
of igs ° : . °

11-8-65

 

Airtel

) ae
A na To: SAC, Chicago (92-373) YEC- 4g
From: Direcbr, FBI (92-3182) - / // 9
GUS ALEX, aka _ -gt-i0t
AR

Re Bureau airtel 10-26-65 and your airtel 11-4-65,

It is not felt that the letterhead memorandum
submitted with your airtel contains sufficient specific
information to resolve the question raised by Swiss authorities
concerning the identity of Alex and the proof that he is the
individual who is the subject of the Swiss entry ban.
a
You should resubmit a revised letterhead memorandum
containing more detailed and evidential type information to
Support the identification of Alex as a leading Chicago
hoodlum figure and as the person banned by Swiss authorities.
Consideration should be given to setting forth any pertinent
information as to Alex's record of arrests. Also dates of pert-
inent travel. to Europe and Switzerland and passport data on Alex.
Also advise Bureau of pertinent handwriting comparison —
' which can be made to establish that Alex is the person who
visited Switzerlandand submit any hecessary specimens in order
that the Laboratory can immediately make indicated comparison.

 

 
  
   

i Legat has requested this. matter be given prompt
ettention and in view of this, you should resubmit requested
faterial by 11-11-65. <
SOTE: Chicago hoodlum Gus Alex and his paramour visit Switzerland
‘ach winter on vacation and Legat Bern has established appropriate
goverage in past years through Swiss authorities. Following last
isit of Alex during past winter Swiss authorities issued a prohibit-
ion against Alex's re-entry into this country on the basis that he
ig WaS am undesirable. Alexms appealed and Swiss police now advise
Mohr they feel there is some question of! identity as to whether there are
Cenpen two persons by the name of Gus Alex involved and have requested

Casper . . .
colshon —— further verification concerning this:
ontad :
Felt -
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan,
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes

Gandy —
Lad

DoclId:32556705 Page 1

   

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 
