 

e ff a AUP OLbNEE
: -7-

General Gray then attempted to sum up what he understood was needed.
He said (1) the Group seems to want an estimate of the tire to organize and
train a Cuban indigenous army, including an estimate of its chances; (2) what
U.S. support would be required for the 750 men in terms of air and naval
pewer; (3) Whet-U.S. gercund forces will be required to support the action.

A separate paper, he said, would deal with U.S. unilateral. intervention
to protect U.S. lives and property, involving ground, air and naval forces.
He would.contempiate this situation arising so quickly that there would be
no possibility to inter mix it with the plan. And (lL) the use of U.S. and
indigenous forces on a planned basis. ih ye dined tea

There was considerable discussion by Captain Spore, Ambassador Willauer,
General Gray, and Mr. Barnes on the need to work on ‘the assumption that the
750 men may not be <ble to do the job unassisted. At one point, Mny Noel
estimated, on the basis of observation of visa applicants, thet in the group
of 70,000, there would be less than 1,000availeble for training for military
duties. Ambassador “illauer suggested th:t General Gray note, as a preblem
in connection with training Cubans, the auesticn.of who pays the trainees » who
pays their dependents, and who would pay indemnity in case of their death.

Mr, Barnes noted that the study would not be complete without consideration
of the timing factor. Nor without consideration of two further points, namely,
cocrdination with action vs. Trujillo, and an estimate of why an embargo,
including activity which amounts to acts of war, will not work. Ambassador
Willauer noted thet there is perhaps insufficient time to do all this in the
final report, however, he suggested that the desiracility of also dealing with
Trujillo should be noted, and thet the Agency might include an evaluation of
the effects of a complete economic embargo. It was also considered that at
some point the ssency will have to prepare anc out us for the reaction of the
Special Group, its assessment of the vossibility of success by the 750 unaided.
.There would also be reavired an assessment of the political feeling in the
ecuntry which it is hoped might be develoved between now and the end of
Februarye

The next meeting is or the calendar for Monday at 1600 hrs.

DO NOT FILE

PLEASE RETURN BY HAND

M:ECCurtis/ck

1-13-61 oN, TO. ROOM 4509 NS/E

OR CALL EXT. 4134

 

aor]

TGP Sethe

rer
oa
_

Photocopy
G from
ierald R. Ford Lib
HW 56629) DoclId:32105622 Page @ (brary
. a 1U0 ULbii ;
7 © _DRuiiE A

“pilots. He said that the idea of air strikes beginning three days before
Deday has been killed, and that a strike beginning the day before D-day has
now been accepted. He noted that it is Dossible that Cuba may have a jet
air force based on ine Pilots being trained in Czechoslovakia. As yet there
is no evidence that there are any jet airvlanes in Cuba, However, Ambassador
Willauer raised the problem of, if Castro has a jet air force, how would it
be possible to explain the use by the FRD. of a jet capability. He suggested
the possibility of a volunteer group, to acquire and provide the jet pilots
and planes. Arbassador Wiliauer indiceted that he hoped the Defense Department
would include in its estimates sone indication of what might be reauired
to counteract a Cusen jet air force, and some estimate as to how soon Cuba
Could have effective jet capability after delivery of such planes in Cubs,
Following Mr. Barres corment that there is no magic to any specific number
of days before D-day for a pre strike, and that sufficient facts are not now
on hand to reach a decision, Ambassador Willauer commented thet with the
Present Cuban air force one cay before Deday is sufficient, Mr. Devine
noted that one of the problems of activity prior to D-day is what will be
happening during that period in the U.N. and the OAS.

. Arbessador Willauer then finished the reading of the paper with the
miscellaneous section, prey?

Captain Spore then commented at length on the sea lift problem. He gave
a rong down of what vessels the Agency now hes indicating that it would not
be sufficient for the mumberg¥involved. He said that the Navy is quite
concerned acout the problem of selecting a beach. He also said that heretofore
calculations had been based on an unopposed landing. If an opposed landing is
a@ possibility, there will be a requirement for naval Support and the vessels
_ in hand have no armament, He also expressed Navy concern over the actual
landing and transvortation without Casire's orior knowledge from vort of
embarkation, Ambassador Willaucr noted the possiblity of a pre-dawn strike,
Thee
Ambassador Willauer then explained about the tiring problem, indicating
that the next reetins of the Greup is early Tubecay morning, and that this
working ercus Aas been instructed to ebtain the third preng document fron
Defense cefore that meeting, de sugsested that the next working group meeting
be Hcnday when scne tyne of procress revort mi ht. be helpful. General Gray
raised scre ceneral questions,\; T fically asid&! if the plan just read is
valid. He noted that there are so many contingencies raised, the plan coes
not seem tc have yet been determined, fmbessador Willauer indiested that
the Srecial Group could not G0 beyond the voint whieh the Ambassador has
cescribed in stating what the United Stetes oolicy will be. This will be
something that has to be determined and set by the new acministration. In
the meantime the Group does recuire from Defense a statement regarcing the
questions he, the Ambassador, has raised,

      

 

 

General Gray and Ambassador Willauer then discussed the nature of the job
to be done oy Defense and what is required.

oN , General Gray

 

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 56629) DoclId:32105622 Page 7
   

The reading of the document continued from the third section "Measures
to implement Proposed Solutions." There was no further comment or discussion
down through paragraph d of the section "Recognition of a Cuban Goverrmment-in-
exile," however, Ambassador “illauer did note in passing that unilateral action
by the United States nas already been taken and that the collective action
section has been overtaken by events. He also noted that the language calling
for recognition of government~in-exile immediately upon breaking relations has
been overtaken by events.

Secretary Irwin returned to the meeting at this point.

Mr, Barnes then noted that there is a group of 00 to 1,000 Cubans who
expect to maxe some calls on Fresident Eisenhower and elsewhere during the
course of today and tomorrow. Ambassador Willauer then continued the reading
through the end of Fart I. 7

Ambassador Willauer read Part II - Covert Action, Section 1 = Objectives.
He conmented that the Agency is doing a tremendous amount of work--Tracy Barnes.
indicated that there are 160 different groups of Cubans. Mr. Barnes also said
that two representatives of orvosition crours are about to go inside Cuba.
One is a member of the FRD, the second is note He continued by saying that
perhaps Arellanh Sanchez Arango might also go in. Sanches Arango cleims to
have a lot of surport, but so far has not identified any of it. Ambassador
Willauer then read Sectim2 - Fresent Status, and noted that the support
spring boards are located in Guatemale, Nicaragua and the Canal Zone.

The Ambassador then continued reading secticn 3 and l and then invited
comment by lir, Earnes on the geographic score, the main thrust and the
broadcast activity in the political acticn and propaganda fields. ir. darnes
reported in considerable detail SHét activities of Swan Island, the three
newspepers, and the magazine, as well as trins through Latin America by the
jurists, labor groups, representatives of Cuban women, end students orgeni.za-
tions. He noted the political stand taken last May oy Teny Varona in Mexico
City ang Caracas, tre develossent and announcement of a political pletforn,
which ne characterized as cein: sonewhat negative. He indicated in sone
detail the reasons why it was felt. that a more vositive arprozch to the platform
provisicns was not cesiratle at the stage reached wnen tne vlatform was
released, He then indicated that Fadio Swan is commencins to discuss vericus
avproaches to sucn importent questions as land reform, elections and other
elements of a platform. General Gray asked who was the leading candidate,

Mr. Barnes indicate that he has Lists from many sources with deteiled
information about the incividuals, He said that he is ready to sit dow and
consider the candidates and reach a cecisicn as to who ere most appropriate.

He noted that at this staze we should not go so far as to select one individual
who night be snot, and that the selection of a sincle candidate should follow
some demonstration that he can survive in Cuba and does in fact have a sub-.
stantial political following. ‘

— oN
\ .

 
 

   

 

. Ambassador

 

Photocopy

m
Gerald R. Ford Library
HW 56829 Docld:32105822 Page 5
 

a A co Ur Sib
, ae

J

wiki Fong

Ambassador Willauer noted that there is one military contingency plan which
will have to be ready for use if Castro should start slaughtering Americans.
This would be a purely military plan end would include militery occuration.
General Grey noted that such a plan already exists and is being revived.
Ambassador Willauer noted that the hardest political problem was that the Cubans
would not work tcgetiier. Mr. Barnes then noted that the tabs to the paper
give full details about the individuals, names, background, etc.

Secretary Irwin at this point left the meeting.

Ambassador Willeucr then read the paramilitary section, number 5,
Hr, Barnes commented on the communication teams in Cuba. He first noted,
however, that sc far the activities have not developed any cracks and crevices
in ‘the Castro structure. There is still hope that these might become visible
during the next sixty days with increased cropaganda, supvort, and other
activities. He indicated that at one time there were ten communications teams
active. For varicus reasons these have noWbeen reduced to six. There is
ne indication yet of Cuban DF capability. In contrast the Asency with Nevy
help feels thet it kmows every movement of any Cuban ship and has. good

ca information about the ground forces and secret police, and does not have

mich information about air activity.

Ambassacor Willeuer’ then continued reading in the varamilitary section
through the sentence ending "and carry out sabotage." At this point lr. Noel’
was asked to comment, since he just recently came from Havana. lr. Noe?

) ‘indicated that the various elements of the oprosition are cootereting with
each other in sabotage activities. Recently, tnuere has been a decrease of
such activity cecause of the Fivel-inspired invasion scare, the militia
activity, anc the introduction of death penalties. Some of the sabotese teams
have been picked up but some are still in existence, willing and able to actz
however, more material is necessary. Ambassador Willauer noted the need for
labor to cut the cane. Nre>Hoel conti nued bo; not#@ that the sabotarce units
can be coordinated with any landing. Some details of the supply drops were.
reported. fir. 5 arnes indicuted that of tne six missions flow within the
past ten days pout of a totel’or ten supply Grops}~five were suvcoly missicns.
Of these, two were fully successful, one was partially successful, one was
mechanically successful cut tne meverial was lost subsequent to its receint
by the people | to wnom it was destined, and the fifth was not good. lire Barnes
indicated + better results will ce possible in the future, nowWthat there are
on-site communications units in action. “nctassader Willauer noted in rassing
that with a collapse of the Castro regime after successful efforts, it may te
necessary to provice certain facilities, sucn as electric power or cormmunica=
tions, particuli:rly in a plece such as tavena, if the sabotage efforts are as
successful as is hoped. Thus it might be wise to earmark early some aval
ship with this thought in mind. :

 

 

 

The final paragraph of the paramilitary secticn was read. éAmbassador
Willauer noted the Faul kennedy article in the New York Times, which he
indicated as ziving preity accurate information about the training and asked
whether anyone reauired additional information. Ambassador Villeuer indicated
that it stilb-mey. be. possible tc neve U.S, strive bases; that this matter nas
not yet been finally decided. He alse mentioned the question of contract

pilots.

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 56629 DoclId:32105822 Page 6
LUE Sit: This ¢ sent consists ctf aca
£3 ~

— tumber€?/ of 2 eosi 3, Seriss.

   

Participants: Ambassador Whiting Willauer, Assistant Secretary of Defense
John Irwin, General Gray, JCS, Cantain Spore, OSO, Mr. Tracy Barnes, Mr. ‘Jin
Noel; Mr. Fran Holcomb, Mr. Joseph WI. Scott, Hr. Glion Curtis, Hr. Wyn Coerr,
and ur, Frank Devine

 

The meeting orened at 10:05 a.m. with Ambassador Willauer in the
chair. There were some introductory renarks emphasizing the special
security restrictions on any metters discussed=~Secretary Irvin noted
that in the Defense Department only Secretary Erskine, Secretary Douglas,
Secretary Gates and Secretaz vedesignate McNamara will be informed. There
Was some creliminary discussion as to the nature of the job to be done
which is brought out more fully in the remarks noted later on. Ambassador
‘ Willauer indicated shat the reason for the existence ef the working groun

Was to provide a thirds prong to vhe two-pronged approach, The two pronged
approach is the overt progran fot Cuba on the one hand, and the accomeanying

covert program contained in the document dated December 6 and December 20,

178-10004-10196

Ambassador “lillauer then vroceaded to read through the document ’
stopping at various points to com: nt or to respond to ouestions. This
record will not attempt to reproduce the content of the document, but
merely to identify the place where the reading ceased and discussion took
place.

  

Ambassador Willauer read Part qi. Basic Assumtions through the
sentence on economic dislocations (line 5, First parazraph). At this veint
he noted that he felt,and ne auotéd Jose risueres as concurring in this
viewpoint, that there was a high orobability that the Soviet Union would
pump in enoush economic assistance to make a show case of Cuba. He noted
that dissatisfaction arising from economic factors is not overlooked, i
indicated that for all eractical ourposes, he Ih et the notion had seen
abandoned that there was any hope of overthro: ing the Castro resime with
economic warfare measures alone, even if they include an effective blockade.

 

  

He then read through the rest of the Basic Assumptions section.

   
  
  

He then read Part Il, Sugested sion throush the first naragraph.
Comment: Ambassador ‘illauer ines

  

Leated events had ovartaken the. orovi-=
sions of this paragraph. He said that at this tine no one foresses army
Foreign liinistars Heeting oy February i, nor do ther foresee any effective
collective sanctions decision. Arbassador Willauer then went on to note
thet an obscure item which apvears in the New York Tines of January 12
incicated an inclination on the part of President Betancourt of Venezuela
to call an OAS Foreign Ministers meeting for the purpose of acting against
dictators both of tre right and of the left, ir. Coorr noted that ihe type
of reaction whieh had occurred yecterday in Uruguay azainst the Cerwnist
and Castro activities could build up to an O4S meeting. Ambassador Willsuer
commented that we nad not given up all hope, but we cannot count on such a
aalkine vi Ambassador Willauer then read tne second paragrarne
in events have overtaken the nrovisions of the vaper
ted States has already Uroxzen relations with Cuba, He noted

©.

 

     

that Peru

 

TGP §

HW 56829 DocId:32105622 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/27/20)

Identification Form

 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Agency Information Released under the John F.
ennedy Assassination Records
ellection Act of i992 (44 Uc

Case: NW 56629

DAVIS
178-10004-10196

Bi07 Note).
Pate: 04-13-2018

 

GENERAL SUBJECT FILE

SSC--TRUJILLO ASSASSINATION, CUBA, CHILE

 

 

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Document Information

DOS
CURTIS, E.G.

OI/13/1961
7

CUBAN EXILES

DOS

BAY OF PIGS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
EISENHOWER, DWIGHT D.

MEMORANDUM
Top Secret
Consulted
Withhold
08/10/1993

Detailed memo of meeting: Ambassador Whiting Willauer, John Irwin, General Gray, et al. Attached
to 1781000410190.

 

HW 56829) DoclId:32105622 Page 1
. oe eo lw Stuit!

' —2=

 

 

that Peru had orokeh relations unilaterally and verhaos Uruguay is about ¥
to do so. The other Latin American countries, however, are reviewing

their political sitiation and appear to be receding from their somewnat
stronger attitude teward breaking relations which existed prior to the

United States action. He specifically cited the Chilean elections and the
Argentine evidence of softening of its position.

Ambassador Willauer then read the third paragraph of this section. He

noted that this type of action is all overt, nevertheless, assistance to

a government in exile, particularly in terms of persomnel training and
military materiel suzport, brings in the Defense Department immediately.
Secretary lrwin directed attention to the provision of assistance Vafter™
recognition and raised the question particularly with reference to

training, as to whether it shouldn't be done ahead of time and be ready

for use at the time of recognition, Ambassador Willauer quoted General Gray
as having said that the force of 750 men could perhaps hold a perimeter of
only 1,000 yards across. He noted that the actual amount of real estate

r controlled by the government is not important and even expressed the

possibility that one could be recognized without any real estate at all. In
response to General Gray's question, lice Scott noted that although the
phrase used in the sarer is government-in-exile, what is really meant is a
provisional government. Ambassador Willauer then noted the fact that tne
Agency is smizggling into Cuba two Cuban leaders. These persons might
- constitute a rallying point for the formation of a government within Cuba.

 

Mr, Barnes asked whether it is realistic to steak of recognizing a
government in exile while the Castro Goverment is still in existence and
asked whether this was really possible. i=. Coerr replied, "yes" with the
proviso that it would, of course, not be done if the situation were so flimsy
as to be ludicrous. In response to lir. Barnes! question whether real estate
is essential or not, “re Scott replied that the present legal opinion is tnat
real estate is essential. Secretary Irwin indicated he had the same concern
as ir. Berness «As he described it, nis problem is that it is not sufficient
to establish control over a piece of territory but in adcition there must o2
an ability to maintain that control. His question is whether 750 men really
will be eble to do that. Ambassador Willauer made the point that perhaps
there is already sufficient real estate of cne sort or another availaole in

the Escambray in dissident nands to warrant recognition of a government wnicn
controlled that territorye

   

 

Secretary Irvin commented that the real question was not one of recomnitic.
but rather whether or not we are prepared to do enough with suificient speed
to enable the »revisional government to estaolisa its control over all of Cu
He noted that he is currently very concerned with such a problem in Laos, wher:
volunteers were encourazed but no decision had been taken yet as to now far we

would £0«

  

Mr, Scots observed that this was one of the reasons for this current meets
How do we make. recommition effective? How much de you need to provide for the
purpese? In this picture the abilities and linitations of the Defense Depart-

ment constitute the third orong in the programe

 

Ambassador «

TAD SEPRET Photocopy
rom
Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 56829 DocId:32105622 Page 3
o «WSO

 

Ambassador Willauer raised the question of training volunteers such
as Argentines or Cubans. Tracy Barnes estimated that there are now 70,000
Cubans in and around the Miami area, of whom perhaps 10,000 could be of
military age. Ambassador Willauer then contimed with "Suppose we figured
on the basis of 10,000 Cucans and perhaps 5,090 other Latin American
volunteers for training, then questions might be: Where could they be
trained? What would be required for the purpose? and, How lang would it take?
Tracy Barnes noted that there may be a question of what types of people
Would be acceptable. For example, he said that a military backgqriend of some
Sort may be necessary, Anbassacor Willauer suggested that this was a
Department of Defense judgment. Mr. Coerr observed that the size of the force
- may be, dependent upon the Icind of victory which is considered to be necessary,

“In amplification he said one sized force might ve sufficient to knock Castro,

off, but to eliminate his government quickly and thoroughly might require Vee
more people, Captain Spore asked whether the first step isn't really to
surface a new leader before recognition of the government. Ambassador Willauer
commented that it would never be possidle to Puil all the Cubans together,
Captain Spore inquired about the need far some massive program within Cuba.

At this point Secretary Irwin left the meeting.

General Gray, ressonding to Captain Spores last question, indicated that
the document will answer that question. Ambassador Willauer then noted that it
will be necessary to make several assumtions. One is that whatever government
is recognized must be assumed to be satisfactory for our purposes. 4 second
is that Castro is in power in Cuba and has certain military equipment and.
capabilities. One of our questiomis, in the light of these assumptions,
what is required from the cutsice to assure success of the provisional govern-
ment?

At this point Mr. Devine made three comments. He noted that with

reference to our recruitment of volunteers, Castro is also ousy recruiting

tin Ansrican volunteers for ais ow purvoses. Secondly, he noted tnat
*the principle, point implicit in the element of establishing a safe haven
perimeter within Cuba was the expectation that this would encourege and in
fact procuce large-scale adherence fron defectors within Cuba. Thirdly, he
wished to be sure that the fact that two Cuban anti-Castro leaders are being
infiltrated into Cuba’at this time does not represent a cecision already
taken thet these are the chosen instruments. ilr. Devine was reassured on
this latter voint.

There was then en exchanze between Ambassador Willauer and General Gray.
General Gray indicated that his directive from General Eonesteel was that
tois working group was to write an cverall plan with all three elements; that
subordinate tc this general plan was to be a lemily of vlans for detailed
operations in sucport. Accassador Willauer indicated this is correct.

The reading

TEP Scbitel

HW 56829) DocId:32105622 Page 4
