 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

- OSWALD, Lee Harvey

 

was no formal record kept of the reason for removal of the look-out card
on the refusal sheet and the requesting officer did not sign his name on

the Clearance Section for removal of the look-out card,

this is accomplished when the requesting agency asks that it be removed,

 

it automatically at the end of the period or shortly thereafter.

 

' look-out cards,

designee,

 

 

“T=

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32213983 Page 9

C - The removal of the look-out cards is requested by those individuals
having authority to do so - generally an Adjudicator in FO or a Senior Adju-
dicator in DO. In cases where a look-out card is requested for loss of citi-
zenship, lack of citizenship, or any case where there is no time limit placed
on the lock-out card the request is made when evidence is received warranting
a reversal of the Adjudicator's prior decision. In such cases the Adjudicator
marks the refusal-sheet "disregard", indicates the reason for removal, and
signs his name, The file and refusal sheet are forwarded to the Clearance
f Section where the card is removed by the Chief of the Clearance Section or
I ‘someone designated by him, Prior to the adoption of this procedure there

the sheet, The refusal sheet was merely marked "disregard" and forwarded to

cases where the card has a set expiration date the Clearance Section removes

Look-out cards requested by OF are removed by the Clearance Section when
it is notified that the loan has been paid in full, OF sends a monthly list
of persons who have paid in full to the Clearance Section for removal of the

Procedures in the Clearance Section dictate that the actual removal of
the card shall be accomplished by the Chief of the Section himself or his

With regard to the removal of look-out cards requested by outside agencies

cnn indent uniinasnatty-nt hn ins eh inSihbiten ni enya aii i int keine i a i A as usable Si items
eee nec ene ete nm etna FREE PBA Te ena an Daa FARES ig on .
ne ctceyeepnsnevenpen tee einem he Meme er ct gr emma :

 

 

seninineissneaisen Sine tbatieinas aaa ae:

THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Docld:32213983 Page 10.

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) indexes the refusal sheet;

(2) places one look-out card in the look-out file as
a temporary card and the other is stored for fu-
ture forwarding to prepare an IBM card, (When
the IBM card is received it replaces the tempor-

~ary~card-and--becomes the permanent card).

(3) When these steps have been performed the indivi-
dual performing them signs the refusal sheet,

(4) The passport file is then forwarded to the Pass-
port Office files for storage or to a requesting
individual.

The indexing of the refusal sheet consists of the following: The indi-
vidual's name is typed along the right-hand margin of the refusal sheet by a
clerk designated to do so and,under the old system, the name preceded by the
number 130, Also, prior to the adoption of the current refusal sheet where
the signature of the clerk receiving the file and refusal sheet within the
Clearance Section is required, the indexing was the only evidence the re-
fusal sheet was received and a look-out card prepared by the Clearance Sec-
tion, Moreover, the current refusal sheet was not in effect at the time
of the OSWALD look-out cards, The number 130 was used as part of the State
Department's filing system, Under that system numbers 130 to 149 were
assigned to the Passport files and 130 denoted the files which were filed
by an individual's name and not by subject matter; however, approximately
two years ago the Department's files were decentralized and the numbers
were dropped.

Prior to this current procedure the system generally required the re-
questing officer to execute a refusal sheet and forward it, with the file,
to the Clearance Section where a clerk indexed the refusal sheet and pre-
pared a look-out card, Under both systems if there was no request to re- :
turn the file to a particular individual it would be forwarded to the Pass- ~
port files for filing.

Under the present procedures there is a record kept of the names of all
the persons taking action on the refusal sheet with regard to the- look-out <
card, Under both systems it is assumed that all proper action will be taken:
during the ordinary course of business, However, under neither system, pre-'
sent or prior, is there any one particular individual vested with the respon-
sibility of checking to determine that all the ministerial steps required in
processing of a look-out card have been complied with. -

6-

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 

Docld:32213983 Page 6 .
 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL
. , OSWALD, Lee Harvey '

the request is forwarded to the Special Consular Services (SCS) of
the Department for determination, If the lean is approved, SCS so :
advises the overseas post and the loan is granted, (It is not cus-
tomary for SCS to advise the Passport Office of their reasons for
granting the repatriation loan), When the loan is granted, the
Consular Officer forwards a copy of the invoice to OF, on some oc-
casions the invoice would indicate the individual's date and place
of.birth..and name, and on others only the name. These invoices
would then be forwarded. te the Clearance Section of the Passport
Office and acted as a request for a look-out card, However, if
‘ the loan did not exceed $50 and did not contain a date and place
: of birth a card would not be prepared and it would be returned to
: OF, As a result, therefore, when an invoice did not indicate a i
date and place of birth OF discontinued sending them to the Clear- i
ance Section, When an invoice did not contain the required infor~ i
mation the Clearance Section did prepare a look-out card and insert i

;

4

|

q

+

i

Q

 

it into the look-out file.

Under current procedures the loan application is sent with
the invoice to OF by the overseas post and the date, place of
birth and the amount of the loan are readily available to OF,
The Clearance Section maintains the requirement of a date and
place of birth in order to insure positive identification when
a search is made and avoid possible embarrassment to the Depart-
ment by erroneous identification. Further, under current pro-
cedures OF prepares its own IEM look-out card and forwards it to
the Clearance Section for insertion in the look-out file.

| B - The Clearance Section of the Passport Office is that area where the
look-out file is maintained, When one of the areas under (A): above requests
a lock-out card through the preparation of a refusal sheet, under current pro- ;
cedures, the following steps are taken: j

- (a) The Senior Adjudicator or the Adjudicator preparing the
refusal sheet signs the sheet authorizing the request;

: (b) a clerk within the Adjudicator's area prepares the look-
i‘. : out card in duplicate, signs the refusal sheet and forwards the i
| : sheet and the duplicate cards to the Clearance Section;

(c) the clerk within the Clearance Section receiving the d
file with the refusal sheet and look-out cards performs the ‘
following:

-5-

 

CONFIDENTIAL

    

 

Docld:32213983 Page 7 .

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

H .
! CONFIDENTIAL

. OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES:

A - Generally the request for the preparation of a look-out card comes
from the Passport Office's (a) Domestic Operations Division, (bv) Foreign
Operations Division, (c) Legal Division, and (d) the Department's Office

 

 

 

 

gee

of Finance,

 

 

(a) -Domestic-Operations Division: Basically the Domestic
Operations Division (DO) handles all applications for passports -
within the United States, The application is generally received
in a passport agency, where it is reviewed by an adjudicator to
determine, among other things, whether or not it has been proper-
ly executed, and whether the applicant is seeking to travel in
restricted areas, Assuming the application does not indicate
restricted travel and that it is properly executed, the appli-
cant's name and date of birth are teletyped to Washington, D, C.,
where it is checked through the Clearance Section to determine
whether or not a look-out card exists. If one does not exist
the passport is issued routinely, if a card does exist the is-
suance of the passport is held in abeyance and the applicant's
passport file is reviewed prior to the issuance of the passport,
In cases where the application indicates a prior passport has
been issued and that it is potentially valid the agency requests
the applicant to present it for examination. If the passport has
expired the applicant is not requested to present it, When an
application indicates a desire to travel in countries for which
there are travel restrictions and the applicant persists in his
desire, a letter of explanation is requested and is forwarded to
the Department together with the application for determination.
Further, applications which raise a question of citizenship, loss
of citizenship, or a possibility of fraud are forwarded to the
Department for decision, When such a question of citizenship
arises it.is referred to a Senior Adjudicator who makes a deter-
mination, If it is decided there is prima facie evidence indi-
eating a lack of citizenship or a loss of citizenship, a look-
out card is requested by preparing a refusal sheet. The pur-
pose of the look-out card is primarily to serve as 4 "flag" or
an "alert" to the Passport Office, In the event a passport is
subsequently applied for it will not be issued routinely, but
a review of the applicant's file by a Senior Adjudicator will
then be made to determine whether or not a passport may be duly
issued,

-3-

CONFIDENTIAL

DoclId: 32213983 Page 5
 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

= OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(b) Fereign Operations Division: The Foreign Operations Division

(FO) receives for action, matters arising overseas relating to pass-

port and nationality matters, However, it should be noted that only ,

"problem" cases are referred to FO for decision (8 FAM 245.6 speci-

fies what cases "must" be referred to the Department “for decision") ;

approximately 93 to 95% of all cases arising overseas are handled ‘

by the overseas’ post~concerned, In cases referred to the Department, ;

if the adjudicator determines that there has been a loss of citizen-

ship or a failure to acquire citizenship a refusal sheet is prepared

requesting a look-out card, Also, a card may be requested in any :

case where the adjudicator desires one to act as an "alert" or "flag". i

That is, although there is no legal basis under existing regulations. i

and statutes for refusing or limiting a passport, it is felt, none- i

theless, in the adjudicator's judgment, that a passport should not be \

subsequently issued routinely, This "flag" or "alert" insures, at 1
j
i

:
i
i
Ht

least, a review of the individual's passport file prior to the issu-
ance of a passport, Decisions for an "alert" or "flag" are based on
the adjudicator's experience and no definite criteria are established.

4s composed of the Legal Advisery Branch (PT/LAD) and the Security

Branch (PT/LS). Generally PI/LAD is concerned with look-out cards

in cases which involve passport frauds, imposters, child custody

H cases and requests from other agencies for look-out cards. PT/LS

: is primarily concerned with Communist Party members, Communist sym- i
: : pathizers, persons who have violated travel limitations, etc. This :
} Branch receives reports from other agencies, which are disseminated !
by INR, The majority of the reports come from the FBI with a small 5
portion from the CIA, (INR records indicate that some 350 or more H
reports are forwarded to the Passport Office each month). PI/LS |
reviews the reports and if they indicate the individual is a Com-
munist Party member or a member of a Front Organization which im-
plies strongly the individual is a member of the Communist Party, i
a look-out card is requested through the preparation of a refusal . . |
sheet, . :

 

z

: a

q

(c) Legal Division: The Legal Division of the Passport Office

eR,

 

(ad) Office of Finance: Within the Department the Office of
Finance (OF) also requests look-out cards when an individual has
been granted a repatriation loan. The procedure requires that
when an individual executes an application for a repatriation loan

-4- .

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 

e
i +
I

el

 

Docld:32213983 Page 6
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FELD OFFICE

oo : Oe — CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To
atte . mo : ne DECLASSIFICATIGN AND/OR
CONF DENTIAL RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
elzajas-

FORM DS+838
4626-56

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY

     
 

CASE CLASSIFICATION

1A,26.00

     

 

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

      

 

DATES INVESTIGATED REPORTING AGENT

June 24 to
July 2 196.

DATE REPORTED

Washington July 27, 196

 

APPROVED

 

SYNOPSIS

A procedural study of the leok-out card system of the Passport Office
was conducted with specific reference being made to the procedures followed
in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case, including a security survey of the Clearance
Section, The details are set forth below.

- CLOSED -

REFERENCE: Oral instructions from SY/Headquarters dated June 4, 1964
(Mr, Berry)
Memorandum from Mr. G, Marvin Gentile to Mr, Henri G, Grignon
dated June 2, 1964
Memorandum from Mr. A, Schwartz to Mr. G, Marvin Gentile dated
May 20, 1964 .

DETAILS

Pursuant to the authority in the referenced oral instructions and memo~
randa, and a conference held on June 23, 1964, attended by Mr, Charles Mace,
Mr. Richard Frank, Mrs. Frances Knight, Mr. Edward Hickey, Mr. Robert D, ;
Johnson, Mr. G. Marvin Gentile and the writer, a procedural study of the
look-out card system of the Passport Office was conducted,

 

DO NOT WRITE. IN THIS SPACE

a eee ee

DATE RECEIVED

 

Tees
> 2
ote . Ly tBy
oe La 7

MYpecial Agent if Charg6o

     
 
  
  
   
 
   

 

COPIES REFERRED 3 - Headquarters

1 - WFO file (64-1475)

REVIEWED 8Y AGENT SUPERVISOR

 

  
   

(Date) (Initials)

perez.
Excludsd fron automatio
downgrading and
; declassification
THISSREPORT |S THE PROPERTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND iTS
“CONTENTS MUST NOT BE DISCLOSED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.

ONFTDEN Aj

GPO 891584

etait ednnstnntininitna tiaras a elaisidatinluimaininesiianialvnins nin ames ati oatiiorenth Age atu genase str ch hen mnmitnunraner roa

ripeness Ss i ana ennai tnt

 

Docld:32213983 Page 2? .
 

 

 

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER
RECORDS SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER

FROM

PAGES
SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE
CLASSIFICATION
RESTRICTIONS
CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW
OPENING CRITERIA
COMMENTS

DoclId:32213983 Page 1

Date
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DOS
179-40010-10274
LOT 85D275: RECORDS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

 

DOS

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY
07/27/1964
63

: OSWALD, LEE, INVESTIGATION OF LOOKOUT CARD SYSTEM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CONFIDENTIAL

3

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
06/29/1995

 

FOLDER: PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION-- INVESTIGATION OF SY;
INCLUDES COPIES OF P.’ 2, 12, AND 14-34 WITH NOTE

STATING THAT THOSE PAGES WERE DELETED FROM THE REPORT
SENT TO THE COMMISSION; POSTPONEMENTS BY DOS, BUREAU

OF CONSume APIs

07/10/20
 

i
q
!
j
|
i
i
i
i
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

’ ‘The look-out card process can be divided into two categories, (a) one
which can be referred to as the judicial aspect and (b) the ministerial as-
pect, The first category concerns itself with the basis or criteria used
in determining whether or not a card shall be requested, The second cate-
gory concerns itself with the mechanical steps involved in preparing a
look-out card from the time a decision to request a card is made until the
filing of the card, Since the purpose of this study is primarily concerned
with the procedures.in-handling the look-out cards, emphasis will be placed
on the ministerial aspect of the look-out card process with reference to
the judicial aspect primarily for reasons of background, Furthermore, any
recommendations at the conclusion of this report, which can be said to fall
within the judicial realm of the process, are offered not as criteria for
refusing a passport, but only as a means of avoiding the routine issuance
of a passport to an individual with a questionable background, Moreover,
the study was confined to inquiries to determine how the look-out cards
are handled in a typical "OSWALD" case and specifically the procedures
followed in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case itself, This study is broken down
into the following categories: (1) the general overall procedures, (2)
the Lee Harvey OSWALD case, (3) security survey of the Clearance Section,
(4) recommendations, and (5) summary of SY/Files having derogatory infor-
mation relating to personnel assigned to the Clearance Section.

-~2-

CONFIDENTIAL

 

;

“4

m seit sea distant aia icabineil unis trate tae es teasing er sone nce pena cain tnsaynmenintt een

 

DoclId:32213983 Page 3
 

 

aye

+

Msn cea rm ae mt nan aman nnn narnia hia SS RE Fe NG th ingen enn a ee emeny

THE GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES

cada ct panne ante St tng ne amit rs ta sna loms

 

 

ie Sin a a

 

 

 

 

| Docld: 32213983 Page 4.
