SQ RET SENSITIVE

This was the case in the period of. the Suez crisis. This was the case
during the events around Syria and Iraq in.1958. This was the case in
the period when tension flared up in Taiwan Strait--and the Chinese
leaders, the Chinese people, certainly remember it. This was also

the case during the crisis in the Caribbean area when the Soviet Union,
by its rocket=nuclear might, shielded revolutionary Cuba. Perhaps the
Chinese leaders consider that all these were moments of "tranquility."
But we can say bluntly that nobody but they are in accord with this.
These steps of the Soviet Government were also an expression of genuine
proletarian internationalism, not the one on which Peking likes to
expound and which is backed by nothing but noisy slogans and paper
resolutions. ....

‘Nt has everything to administer a devastating rebuff to anyone
who would infringe on the security of. the Soviet Union or its friends
and allies. But no incantations from Peking will draw the Soviet Union
to. the road of madness to the road of irresponsible playing with the
lives of hundreds of millions of people. ''....

Race_

"The outcry against the nuclear test~ban treaty is widely used
in Peking for the propaganda of a Peking-invented version about a
"'special'! community of. interests of the peoples of Asia, Africa, and
Latin’ America. ....

"As if foreseeing the present attempts of the Chinese leaders to
erect walls-within the international ‘communist and national liberation

- movement, separating it by the: token of the color of skin as if

foreseeing their striving to separate the liberation struggle of the

~ SECRET SENSITIVE

8

HW 49061 DoclId:32626313 Page 9
HW 49061

i
SECRET SENSITIVE
people from the revolutionary movement of the intermmational proleteriat,
ve Ie Lenin wrote: "He who takes the standpoint of nationalism,
naturally goes as far as to want to surround with a Chinese wall his
nationality, his national working class movement, unabashed by the
fact that it will be necessary to build separate walls in each city,
place, and village, unabashed by the fact that by his ‘tactics of
division end fragmentation he reduces to naught the great call for.
cohesion and unity of proletarians of all nations, races, and languages.".4s0.
‘Conelusion os

"The Soviet Government does not abandon hope that the CPR leaders
will weigh once more all the consequences of. their present policy
contradicting the interests of cohesion of the socielist countries and
the interests of peace, and would bend efforts for the CPR again to
take its place in the rank of states engaged in tireless struggle to
prevent thermonuclear war, for peaceful coexistence and for the freedom
and independence of the peoples.".eee.

“The keystone of the Soviet position is the view that thé Chinese
should not develop nuclear weapons but rely upon the Soviet "shield"
which defends the Socialist camp. While this theme has undeflain
Soviet statements for some time, this is probably the most unaitibiguous
statement the Soviet's have issued. In defending their position, the
Soviet Union not only takes the view that the Chinese are ideologically
wrong but that they are ignorant of the facts, particularly the facts
regarding nuclear weapons. The Soviet lenguage describing the negotiation
is not phrased in terms of Commmist camp and the Capitalist camp or
Eastern powers and Western powers for they state "for the first time an

international agreement (has been) worked out by three nuclear powers.

9. SECRE TSENSITIVE

DocId: 327626313 Page 10

Ay
, . Has
- ‘ScoRET = SENSITIVE |
‘ht would be naive, to say the least, to assume that it is possible to
conduct one :policy in the West and another in the Bast, to fight with one
hand against the arming of West Germany with nuclear weapons, against the
spreading of nuclear weapons in the world, and to supply. these weapons to
China with the other hand. ....
''The position of the CPR Government, set forth in the statement of
15 August, can be understood only in-the sense that the Chinese leaders
do not care how the nuclear weapons spread among the capitalist countries
as long as the CPR leaders get a chance to lay their hands on a nuclear
bomb and see what it is like.....
"And the CPR can now rely on the means of defense which have been
developed through the efforts of the Soviet people and which reliably
serve the purposes of defending the countries of the socialist commonwealth.
"This is why the most reasonable policy for the CPR in the present
conditions--if, of course, its desires and potential are to be commensurate--
would be to devote its efforts to the development of the national economy,
science, technology, and agriculture, devoting them to raising the
welfare of the Chinese people, to meeting their vital needs, The Chinese
people are experiencing many privations, and this is why such a course
in the policy of the Chinese leaders would be more beneficial to the
Chinese people, would be more appreciated by them and correctly, understood
throughout ‘the world. tees
“1 1t cannot be effaced from the memory of the peoples that at the
critical moments, when the aggressive quarters put the world on- the
brink of war, the Soviet Union without hesitation threw in all its international
weight, all its military might, to stay the hand of the aggressor raised

over a small or big country geographical ly distant or close to us.

7 SECRET SENSITIVE

HW 49061 DoclId:32626313 Page @
- 7 i ; He
| SECRET SENSITIVE

Diffusion ard the Chinese Atomic Program .

"It follows from the 15 August statement of the CPR Government that
the Chinese leaders are greatly displeased with the Soviet Union for not
giving China samples of atomic weapons. It looks as if annoyance with
this policy of the Soviet Union and the other socialist states of not
apreading nuclear weapons explains the attacks of the CPR leaders on
the USSR's foreign policy measures aimed at lessening international
tensions and consolidating peace, and especially their attacks on the
nuclear test-ban treaty.

"More than once the Soviet Government took measures to convince
the CPR Government that prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons
Meets the interests of peace, the interests of all socialist countries,
among them the interests of the CPR. As history would have it, the
Soviet Union is the only socialist country that produces nuclear weapons.

" By its foreign policy the Soviet Union has demonstrated that its
nuclear might reliably stands guard over the interests of the world
socialist commonwealth, over the interests of the peoples fighting for
social and national liberation. Whether one or more socialist countries
would be added to the number of nuclear states, that would make no material
change in the defense potential of the socialist camp--provided, of course,
the socialist camp is regarded as a single whole. But:with each new
capitalist state getting hold of nuclear weapons, the danger of a
nuclear war will increase. The possibility that the number of socialist
owners would increase whereas the number of nuclear states in the imperialist

camp would remain unchanged is precluded, and to build one's calculations on

, -————SEGRET SENSITIVE

AW 49061 DocId:32626313 Page 7
. Ae
fo. .
SuGRET SENSITIVE

of the socialist community, to make the imperialists lose the taste for
aggression against the socialist states. Naturally, in those years,
the banning of tests of nuclear weapons without simultaneous destruction
of. those weapons possessed by the United States would not ‘have been in
_the interests of. the socialist states. It would have brought to a halt
the developmént of nuclear weapons in the Soviet Union and perpetuated
the American nuclear monopoly.

"But the situation did not remain unchanged. As a result of intense
efforts of the Soviet people, of Soviet scientists, in developing their
own nuclear weapons, the American nuclear monopoly was smashed, the
world socialist system received its own nuclear shield, the imperialist
powers lost the material basis for conducting a policy of nuclear
blackmail, a policy -"'from a position of strength" viseasvis the
socialist countries. This also put into new prospective the question
of the nuclear weapons test ban. Now the continuation of nuclear
testing could only lead higher and higher the spiral of. the nuclear arms
race in which the socialist countries, and.all peace-loving states, to
be sure, are not interested. At the same time, with the new balance of
‘power the nuclear test ban would perpetuate not the American nuclear
monopoly but the fact of its liquidation, not the unilateral advantage
of the imperialist. camp but the new balance of power in the area of
nuclear weapons. ..---

"The Soviet Government has already called attention of the CPR
Government to the simple truth that life does not stand still, that

science and technology are developing rapidly, and that something which

 

was unacceptable yesterday may turn out to be useful and even very useful

today. Underlying this are definite material factors of. great

4

SECRET SENSITIVE

HW 49061 DoclId: 32626313 Page 5
. . Ae
ScGRET SENSITIVE
significance, connected with important and major steps of the Soviet
Government to strengthen the defense capacity of the USSR, the security
of all the socialist nations. These steps, which included also the
tests of the latest types of nuclear arms, including the most powerful
ones existing in the world, have reliably insured the security of the
socialist commonwealth. We now possess all the necessary requisities for
further maintaining our defense potential at the proper level which is or
may be required by the situation. © And when we speak about’ that, we do
‘so knowing the facts of the.matter.....
"Of course now we cannot divulge such things, for instance, as the
concrete results of the tests of nuclear weapons we carried out in

1961-62, the,data on the calibers of the nuclear warheads in our arsenal,

 

the purpose of. specific nuclear combat devices of which the Soviet Union
has plenty, where these means are deployed, and so forth. That would be
against the security interests of the Soviet Union and of all the
socialist states, including the security interests of the CPR.

"and if the Chinese leaders, by saying that in recent years. the
‘situation did not change but that the USSR policy ona test ban allegedly
did, and.in a way are-thus goading the Soviet Union to demonstrate
objectively the recent changes in the balance of nuclear strength and for
the sake of that divulge the defense secrets of the USSR. -.--

"But if. for some reason, the Chinese leaders really doubt that the
Soviet Union does possess powerful nuclear weapons necessary for the
defense of all socialist states and are not satisfied with our explanations,
they could at least study the statements highly placed U.S. military leaders
made only several days ago in the American congress, as well as the statement

of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.''....

* —_SEGRET — senetTiVe

HW 49061 DocId:32626313 Page 6
ak

HW 49061

_ Ex eae re NUL Ol 363. cB l°/oe

SECRET SENSITIVE

SOVIET VIEWS, PRIVATE AND PUBLIC
The recent discussions with Premier Khrushchev andthe Soviet response

to Peiping charges following the test ban agreement provide “insights into
the balance that Soviet policy must strike between private views of Soviet
national interests and public views which tend to emphasize Soviet leadership
of the international Commnist movement.

' While there is a clear aifference in emphasis, the public. end private
dialogue are not inconsistent. They are quite comparable to the position
which the Administration has had to take in connection with the Soviet Union

on the: one hand end with the United States Senate on the other:

Private Views
In private, Premier Khrushchev has made Soviet views clear on the

following issues:
(1) Khrushchev is not interested in destroying rockets or strategic

aircraft.

"Harriman referred to further steps that eowld be taken.:
Said some people were thinking of what was called in technical.
terms separable first stage. Such stage could include cut-

. off of production of fissionable materials for weapons uses
and perhaps dismantling certain percentage nuclear weapons
on each side and making fissionable materials thus derived
available for peaceful uses. Wondered whether Khrushchev
had any interest in this and commented such steps might
reduce Sov military expenditures. Khrushchev replied he had no
interest whatsoever; moreover, he could say Sovs would never

agree to this. U.S. position on this matter was well known
and had been stated over ars. Sovs had also stated
their position, and still neta that position. No results could
be derived from such ean approach. After all, why should —

Sovs destroy their bombs in which they put so mich money; why
should Sovs destroy some bombs and build others. Bombs could
be destroyed only under a disarmament arrangement. Sovs could
not squander their money, particularly as their money 1
people's money. Sovs were no capitalists, and to capi’
such an arrangement would of course mean no loss. U.
not waste its time developing such proposals; they were totally
unrealistic." (Reference ~- Harriman's eat eable from’ ‘Moscow,

terse)" SECRE" VE

 

 
   
 

DocId: 32626313 Page 2

an
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10209
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : ’
PAGES : #10
SUBJECTS : ne
DOCUMENT TYPE : . -
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Disarmament, 7/63-10/63. Box 4.

HW 49061 DocId:32626313 Page 1
SECRET ~

(2) Khrushchev is not interested in a separate agreement to stop
production of fissionable material. ,

"Harriman noted Khrushchev had neglected his reference to cut-off.
Khrushchev said such arrangement would be of no use. Other
people would say cut-off could yield no result in 6 situation
where U.S. and USSR had accumulated enough bombs to blow up
whole world. Others would say they did not possess such
material and therefore mst produce it. Thus, this too was waste
of time. As for USSR, it had stopped expanding its production
fissionable materials ‘and now producing such materials at -

same rete as before. Although he did not know when precisely
this would happen, it very possible Sovs would stop production
fissionable materials in near future; however, that would be
without any agreement and Sovs would not tell anybody about

it. Sovs had enough such materials end U.S. was probably in
same position. What Sovs were now. engaged in was refabrication
all bombs on basis results latest tests." -(Reference - Harriman's
July 27 cable from Moscow, No. 365.) a

(3) Khrushchev is interested in stopping the diffusion of nuclear

weapons.

"Harriman said.we believed world would be safer if no more nuclear
powers develop,:end certainly if China did not develop nuclear
capability. Hoped Sovs could get Chinese adhere to treaty before
they became nuclear power. Also, hoped by time China acquired the
ability develop nuclear powers, more comprehensive control of :
armaments could be had. Khrushchev agreed and said Sovs making
effort prevent increase in number nuclear powers. However, these
efforts would of necessity be weak until agreement on disarmament
had been reached." -(Reference - Harriman's July 27 cable from
Moscow, No. 365.) ~

-(4) Khrushchev is interested in saving money.

"Xnrushchev wished to suggest that militery budgets be frozen at
levels of, say 1963. He believed this would be reasonable and would
give to peoples hope that governments were at last showing common

sense and doing something to arrest arms race and not add fuel to
fire." (Reference - Harriman's July 16 cable from Moscow, No. 154.)

SECRETE NsiTVE

HW 49061 DocId:32626313 Page 3.
HW 49061

Public Views

In contrast to the private discussions with Premier Khrushchev, Soviet
response to Chinese charges distributed by TASS on August 20 indicate the

position Soviet leadership is taking within the world Communist movement.

The Balance of Power

 

'Yes, the position of the Soviet Union on the question of ending
nuclear weapons tests did not become fossilized; it adapted itself
to the changes in the balance of power in the international arena, to the
successes in the strengthening of the defense potential of the USSR:.and of
all the countries of the socialist community, .and took into account
everything that is generally known.as the realities of the nuclear age in
their entirety.

"In the first years when nuclear weapons appeared in the arsenal of
the United States,. when the United States had a nuclear monopoly==and, in
view of that, the security of the socialist countries was endangered==
the Soviet Government proceeded from the assumption that the main. task-was
to deprive the United States of that advantage. This aim could be achieved
either by completely banning nuclear weapons, which would have been

tantamount to taking away these weapons from the only nuclear power of that

time, the United States, or through developing our own-nuclear weapons, which.

would help to insure the security of all the socialist countries.

''The Soviet Government demanded the banning and destruction of nuclear
weapons; and, when this demand was rejected by the Western powers, it started
to develop its own nuclear weapons, which were called upon to become a good

additional guarantor of the independence and.security of all the countries

SECRET — SENSITIVE

BoclId: 32626313 Page 4

SEGRET SENSITIVE

Ay
