 

 

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027 Sub F) February 11, 1965
ST-100 REC. 33

“pirector, FBI (92-6054) —4 dQ sune

i - Mr. Millen
1- Mr. Baker
LA COSA NOSTRA
PHILADELPHIA DIVISION 1 - Mr. Corbett

AR; CONSPIRACY

The: following is’ technical inf ormation for review by the. sound-
trained agent assigned to your division.

. “Reference is made'te your alrte of i/ 27/65 which transmitted

a drawing Number 597 showing details of the telephone cable service
at parochial ‘institutions 12. through, 730 Montrose Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. These technical diagrams have been ‘reviewed in detail
and it has been determined from this review that the proposed receiving
site is beyond: ‘the operating grange. of the Radio. Frequency Microphone-

. Telephone (RFMT). unit. ‘Accordingly, this: ‘technique does not appear
froma teéhnical Stabdpoint ‘to be feasible in: this instance.

 
 

 

- Another possible approach ander fochnieat consideration in ‘this
situation ‘would require a 48-volt quiet or talking battery: being supplied
‘to the target telephone line at all fimes.. In addition, if this approach
proved to be: asible, it would.be. necessary to substitute: By altered |
felephone instrament in ‘the target, area... a ; .

“Before proweading further with: this possible different technical
‘approach, please. determine, if possible, whether the: local telephone
operating company ‘eould provide the required battery to the target -

; instrument liné and if dt would be ‘possible, in-your judgment, to.sub-
_ stitute ‘an altered telephone instrument inthe target area. under —
eonsideration.. In addition, a spare pair of wires should be available
from the pole in the rear of 902 South 8th Street to. your. consolidated
monitoring point. .An alternate location for receiving. equipment will -

be in the close proximity to the terminal at 801 Washington. If the
alternate jocation is selected, then it will be necessary to have a spare
—— air of wired from that point back to the mmoaitoring location.

   

- ~ “REDO
“| FEB 1 11966

1 GOMM-EBI

ave 4a a
ead
cual te TeLeTyPEe unrt L_

N

  

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32576425 Page 1
