 

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

SA Sammon was furnished a name of an
individual in Miami, Florida, which name SA Sammon o
failed to record, and therefore the identity of
that individual is not recalled by SA Sammon.

SA Sammon was asked by the committee if he was
acquainted with this individual. SA Sammon advised
the individual was unknown to him.

SA Sammon was then advised that this
individual was a house painter in Miami, and SA .
Sammon was asked if Bill Somerset. was acquainted a cee
with: this individual. a ae :

    

“*. §® Saminon- advised that he- then recalled
that: this individual may be identical to a person ~
who was at the scene of the James Meredith
integration disorder at the University of Mississipi,
Oxford, Mississippi, which SA Sammon believed to

be in 1963. The committee was advised that the
incident arose over Meredith, a Negro, attempting

to register to attend the University of Mississippi.

SA Sammon recalled that a lead was received
at the Miami Office to identify and interview this
Miami house painter as his vehicle had been observed \
at the University of Mississippi campus during the
disorder involving the registration of Meredith at
that university.

: SA Sammon advised that he and SA Leonard
C. Peterson contacted Bill Somerset for background
information on this individual and that Somerset
was acquainted with house painter and furnished
SA Peterson background information concerning this
individual, to the best of SA Sammon's recollection
involving the house painter being a member of
National States Rights Party (NSRP).
~ Thereafter, SA Sammon assisted SA Peterson
in-the interview of this individual in Miami in either
the summer of 1963 or 1964. SA Sammon recalled that
the individual was painting a house at the time of the

 

NW 55186 Doold:32989768 Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

FY

NW 55186 Docld: 329897668 Page i0

’ did not recall Somerset furnishing any information.

 

 

@ = @

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

 

interview, was very hostile towards the interviewing
Agents; however, at the persistence of SA Peterson
he was interviewed regarding his appearance at the
University of Mississippi.

A short time thereafter, an article appeared
in the newspaper of the NSRP on the front page which
was submitted by this house painter. This article
referred to his interview with-SA Peterson and SA
Sammon, and referred toe Peterson as “a blond haired
Swede" and to SA Sammon as “a Jew bastard” or words
to that effect.

SA Sammon was asked if he was acquainted with
Joseph A. Milteer, or if Somerset ever furnished any
information regarding Milteer and his activities. SA
Sammon advised he was not acquainted with Milteer and

regarding him.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

At one point during the questioning, when
- SA Sammon was being questioned as to squad assignment
classifications, and identities of Agents of the Miami,
Florida, FBI Office from 1961-1964, SA Sammon advised
the committee that as that period of time was from
14-17 years in the past, SA Sammon would try to be as
accurate ‘as possible as to monthsand years involved;
however, the committee was reminded SA Sammon's
recollection of the events may be six months to perhaps -
a year off. Mark Speiser advised SA Sammon that the
committee would only allow a four month leeway. This
comment. may have’ been misunderstood by SA Sammon and
may have been in jest by Speisers however, in any regard,
Speiser was advised that SA Sammon stood on his previous
statement that events occurring 14-17 years ago would be
timed as accurately as SA Sammon possibly could; however,
there would be no "four month allowance” imposed
on SA Sammon, unless the committee intended to furnish
him documentary verification. There was no such
documentary verification furnished SA Sammon during
his interrogation, with the exception of SA Sammon
being furnished a lengthy article from what appeared
to be the "Parade" or pictorial section of the Miami,
Florida, Herald, Sunday Supplement Newspaper, which / ~
article appeared to be regarding Bill Somerset. This
article was furnished SA Sammon briefly in an effort
to identify Somerset by photograph as it appeared in
the article. SA Sammon was unable to positively identify
Somerset, due to the length of time involved, and the
fact that the photograph was net a good likeness, or
Xerox copy, as the photograph of Somerset, made him
appear older and thimer in appearance. SA Sammon
advised the committee that the poor photograph did
resemble Somerset; however, if the committee had not
advised Sammon that it was of Somerset, SA Sammon
would be unable to identify him. SA Sammon was not
furnished the article to read. ©

a

~

HW 55166 Doold:32589768 Page @

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

NW 55186 Docld:32989768 Page 7

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

law enforcement officers, consisting of FBI Agents,
Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol “tnse) officers, o
and those of the Rankin County Sheriff's Office.

The committee was advised that this was SA Sammon's
first and last contact with Tarrants, SA Sammon

in answer to specific questions, advised that he had

no personal knowledge of the acts of Tarrants performed
on a residence of a “Jewish businessman in Meridian, .
Mississippi.

: ' SA Sammon was then questioned regarding the
availability of FBI informants to other Federal or
local law enforcement agencies, and the Bureau policy
as pertaining to that availability. SA Sammon advised

.the committee that it is the practice of the FBI,
as well as other law enforcement agencies, not to
reveal the identity of Bureau informants to those
agencies, even though the information furnished by
those informants may be disseminated to those agencies.

The committee at this point took exception with °
SA Sammon indicating it was their feeling that the FBI
"receives all information but does not share information"
with other law enforcement agencies, Federal, state,.and
local. The committee at this point was unequivocally
advised that this has not and is not the case of the FBI,
and that information obtained by the FBI which is. of an
interest to those agencies, is disseminated to them,
even though the identity of the informant furnishing
such information is not revealed to those agencies.

SA Sammon was again asked for his knowledge
as to the availability of Bill Somerset to the Intelligence
. Unit of the Miami, Florida, Police Department, to which
SA Sammon again advised that he was not aware of such
availability during the years of 1961-1964, the only
period that SA Sammon was acquainted with Somerset.
- SA Sammon was asked as to the degree of |
confidence and reliability regarding the information
furnished by Somerset while an FBI informant. SA Sammon
advised from 1961-1964, it was his opinion that the
information furnished by Somerset was reliable, and that
SA Sammon had confidence in that information.

 

 
 

 

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

‘

SA Sammon was asked to identify Intelligence
Division Officers of the Miami, Florida, Police ¢
’ Department, which SA Sammon was unable to do, nor
was Sammon in a position to advise whether or not
any information furnished by Somerset was disseminated
to that intelligence unit during the period of
1961-1964.
SA Sammon was then queried at length regarding
Ku Klux Klan activity in Mississippi, beginning in 1964,
a in particular, ~ information regardime United-Klars of -
_ . Amerieca.(UKA), White Knights of the Ku- Klux Klan .-  ~
.> GIRKKR); and~the-"Silver Dollar Group" of the WKKKK |=
- Mississippi.- -SA Sammon furnished-.a -lengthy "dissertation |
regarding Klan activities in Mississippi since his :
arrival in 1964,

SA Sammon was then asked if he had conducted
any investigation regarding "Merkin". SA Sammon replied
that immediately after the shooting death of Dr. Martin
Luther King, SA Sammon was assigned the responsibility
of traveling through North Mississippi with photographs
of the evidence left by King's assailant, exhibiting
those photographs at motels, service stations, in
North Mississippi to determine if any of the photographs
could be identified. ‘

 

BD

SA Sammon was asked if he was aware of Somerset's
attempt to assassinate King in Montgomery, Alabama, —
in 1958 through poisoning his food. SA Sammon advised
the committee that he was not aware of any such attempts.

SA Sammon’ was then queried regarding Bureau
regulations regarding amounts of money paid informants and
policy of the Bureau to overseeing those payments.

SA Sammon explained to the committee that such amounts
are normally determined by the Agent contacting the
informant and are paid on a COD basis based on the value
of the information furnished by the informant. SA Sammon
advised that the Bureau oversees these payments only in
an auditing or accounting of the particular. informant's
payment fund.

HW 55186 Doold: 32989768 Page 5
a

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

@ @

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

 

SA Sammon was then questioned regarding the

Bureau policy in discontinuing informants and if the ¢
informants are advised that they are being so discontinued.

SA Sammon advised that the informant is so advised when
he is discontinued, usually determined when the informant
has furnished a lack of positive information, or when
he has exposed himself as an informant, and of course
upon his death. “

SA Sammon was then questioned regarding
. Somerset's personal involvement in violence; Somerset's
- personal bigotry toward minority races; his bigotry
regarding union membership; his carrying of weapons;
and Somerset's Knowledge, of explosive devices; and
information
Albert "To

 
 
   
 

To these questions, SA Sammon advised that he
did not have any personal information of acts of violence
performed by Somerset; and that the only personal bigotry
exhibited by Somerset was Somerset's apparent dislike
for SA Sammon, as Somerset felt that SA Sammon was
of Jewish descent. SA Sammon advised that he had no
knowledge of any acts of bigotry in union membership as
indicated by Somerset, nor was SA Sammon aware of Somerset
ever carrying a weapon or Somerset's knowledge of any
explosive devices. SA Sammon advised the committee that \
he did not recall Somerset ever furnishing any information
regarding Thomas Albert "Tommy" Tarrants; however, SA Sammon
was acquainted with Tarrants, having been involved in’a
firearms shootout confrontation with Tarrants in 1969.
The committee pressed for further details concerning
this shootout and the committee was advised that in
August, 1969, Tarrants and two other inmates of the
Mississippi State Penitentiary (MSP), Parchman, Mississippi,
escaped from that penitentiary and were thereafter subjects
of an unlawful flight to avoid confinement investigation,
and were considered by the FBI to be Federal fugitives.
The committee was advised that in August, 1969, information
was received by the Jackson, Mississippi, Office that the
three escapees were hiding in a heavily wooded dense area
near Jackson, Mississippi. Thereafter, SA Sammon and
many other Jackson, Mississippi, Agents attempted to
locate and apprehend Tarrants and the two other inmates,
which attempts resulted in a gun battle, causing -
one of the inmates, name umrecalled, to be killed by

4

NW 55186 Doold:32889768 Page 6

 
 

VZCZCHQO B19

RR JN

DE HQ 9819 9732309
ZNR UUUUU

R 14145@ MAR 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI

TO FBI JACKSON ROUTINE
BT

UNCLAS

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE
ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR«, STAFF MEMBERS OF THE
HSCA HAVE REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW JAMES W. SAMMON OF THE JACKSON

OFFICE, CURRENTLY UNDER TRANSFER TO JACKSONVILLE. SAMMON Is
SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1978, AT 2 P.M.
AT THE COMMITTEE'S OFFICES IN WASHINGTON, D. C.

SAMMON HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND
Is AUTHORIZED To PARTICIPATE IN HSCA INTERVIEW. HE SHOULD RE-
PORT TO FBIHQ ON THE DAY PRIOR TO SCHEDULED INTERVIEW. REPORT
TO ROOM 3658 OR 8988 FOR INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING INTERVIEW.

BT
@B19

NW 55186 Doold:32889768 Page 2

  
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  

  
       

po- 549-7
Se
MAR 14 1978

FBI-JACKSO!

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

DESTROY

FOIPA#_ WA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

File No.

 

.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Jackson, Mississippi 39205

In Reply, Please Refer to March 28, 1978

4-Bureau

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

On March 16, 1978, from 2:12 p.m., to
3:54 p.m.; SA James W. Sammon, assigned Jackson, .
Mississippi, FBI Division, appeared before representatives
of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA
at Washington, D.C.

_.,. .. SA Sammon was questioned -by Mark A, Speiser,

. Peter. G.. Beeson, and Wendy.S. Collins, all of whom
identified themselves through the use of credentials, -
as being associated with aforementioned committee.

; At the outset, SA Sammon was asked to furnish
background information concerning his career with the
FBI, the number of offices and dates assigned and
classifications worked.

 

SA Sammon was asked to identify Special
Agents in Charge (SACs) and Assistant Special Agents
in Charge (ASACs) assigned to the Miami, Florida,
FBI Office during the period of 1961-1964,. when
SA Sammon was so assigned to. that office. The identity
of these SACs was furnished as Wesley G. Grapp and
Fred A. Erobrose (phonetic). It was explained that
former SAC Frobrose is now deceased.

SA Sammon was asked to identify members of
his squad while he was assigned to the Miami Office.
SA Sammon advised that he would be unable to identify
each and every Agent assigned to the Number 5 squad
during the years of 1961 and 1964 inclusive, due to the
length of time that had transpired since that period.

W
@-Jackson (62-544)

JWS /bjw

et cae Oe He me Aon 08 On NOE np A Net A Hn Hk Ma OH SH EN EAE OOD HP A AD ND SER OE EF NOP Oh OH OND RY OD ED Oe OE GOR NE A Ne eS MP SP me

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned

(5) Ba? This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

 

NW 55136

to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed
outside your agency.

 

Docld: 32989768 Page 3

 

 

 
 

 

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

 

SA Sammon was then asked if SAs Francis McCarron,
Jack Dawson, Vincent Stacey, Leon Pryor, and Leonard 7”
C. Peterson. were assigned to the Number 5 squad in
Miami from 1961 through 1964. SA Sammon replied
that SAs McCarron, Dawson, and Peterson were assigned
to that squad; however, it was not Sammon's recollection
that either Stacey or Pryor were so assigned.

SA Sammon was then asked to give a breakdown
by classifications as to the responsibilities of each
of the six Miami squads from 1961 through 1964, which
information was furnished to the committee representatives. |
SA Sammon was asked to elaborate on the assignment of
responsibilities to the Number 5 squad of Miami during
that period of time. Those classifications furnished
of that squad were applicants, accounting matters,
including Hoffa and teamster investigations; civil rights;
racial matters; and fugitive matters. It was explained
that these were the major classifications assigned the
Number 5 squad.

 

SA Sammon was questioned regarding his transfer
from Miami to the Jackson Division in July, 1964, his
location and investigative responsibilities while assigned
to Mississippi, which reply was to the effect that Sammon
was assigned to the Clarksdale, Mississippi, Resident
Agency from 1964-1969, and to the Jackson, Mississippi,
Headquarters of the FBI from 1969 to the present time.

SA Sammon advised that while assigned to the Clarksdale,
Mississippi, Resident Agency, he worked any and all
investigative matters under the jurisdiction of the FBI

which pertained to the territory covered by that

resident agency. In response to a direct question,

SA Sammon advised that his transfer from Miami to

Jackson, Mississippi, was a routine nature and not of .
a disciplinary nature.

. In response to a direct question, SA Sammon
advised_that he was the “backup Agent" assigned to Bill
Sangeet, an FBI informant, while SA Sammon was assigned
to the Miami Division during the period of 1961-1964.

NW 55186 DoclId:32989768 Page 4

 

 

 

 

 
