 

 

Havana 92-1 . , 1/23/59

 

Sources have informed that TRAFFICANTE's wife, daughters,
and nephew have departed from Cuba; however, TRAFFICANTE has remained
in Cuba. :

On January 9, 1959, PCI Alberto Suarez Aleman stated that
a few days after the overthrow of the BATISTA Government, TRAFFICANTE
had been picked up by the Directorio Revolucionario (Revolutionary
Directorate) (DR), one of the groups which fought for the overthrow
of the BATISTA Government, held: for a couple hours and then released.
Source said TRAFFICANTE was concerned about losing his automobile
and had turned it over to a newspaperman named. SALAS AMARO after
the DR had twice tried to get it. Source said on January 8, 1959,
members of the DR came to see TRAFFICANTE and asked him to open up
the dining room and cabaret section.of the Sans Souci Night Club.
TRAFFICANTE advised them that he could not open these parts of the
Sans Souci without opening the gambling casino because his expenses
were about $2,000 a day and he could only meet these expenses . 1
through winnings from the casino. Source said that TRAFFICANTE
‘had been visited by about 50 people involved in gambling activities
in Havana during the period immediately after the overthrow of the
BATISTA Government. Source said it appeared that discussions were
being held by the various gambling interests as to what course
American gamblers in Cuba should take with the new government.

Legat, Havana, has previously advised that AMLETTO.... | Cicha
TTISTI, a Cuban, congressman and bolita banker, was a close 9
Associate of TRAFFICANTE and that“thére Were indications he might
bank some of the bolita bets from the Florida area. On January 1,
1959, BATTISTI took refuge in the Uruguayan Embassy.

: On January 9, 1959, PCI Guido De Phillips (conceal)
advised that he, PHILLIPS, had recently been released from Principe
prison, Havana, in the general release of prisoners which occurred |
on January 1, 1959. Source said he previously worked for TRAFFICANTE
as a chef and bodyguard at the Sans Souci Night Club. Source recalled

 

 

 

ained that it contained $500;000 a d that it was "Jersey"

  
   
     

 

 

Extra copies” 6f this letter ‘have been prepared for forwarding
by the Bureau to the Miami”(2), Newark“(1), New York® (1) and Albany’

(1) offices for information, Legat, Havana, will continue to attempt
to develop sources concerning the subject. - .

— |
Nec NRE
|: SS NENG

| as se : . aA ee

 

 

| Docld:32586371 Page 2
‘

4 Se g7ve,

a

the f

¥

Mie L1
“in

whe Ae,
Ze we “9

72

fice

— Fer CWE,

 

ae fo: . m
_ Office Men, ~ um * UNITED £ : Net

To : Director, FBI (92-2781) DATE: January 23, 1959

 

 

 
 

  

| _]GOVERNMENT
}

Legat, Havana (92-1)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka
ANT I-RACKETEER ING

Reference Havana letter dated: December 10, 1958.

On: December 19, 1958, HAV-33 informed that on December 13,
1958," “PRAFFICANTE had been observed at the Sans Souci Night Club
and gambling casino in Havana in the company of his wife, two
daughters and a nephew, SANTO JOS RAFFICANTE, more commonly

called "Santico. "Source statéd that apparéntly "Santico" is A, fh.
now operating the popular casino known as the Kiosko, which Cll {tte

operates aS an adjunct of the Sans Souciy "This ‘popular casino
is patronized by the poorer elements and appeals_ principally
to Cubans.

On December 23, 1958, PCI Alberto Suarez Aleman (Conceal),
doorman at_the apartment building where TRAFFICANTE resides, advised
that the subject has a new 1959 light green Cadillac which his wife
purchased in Florida. This Cadillac bears Florida license number
4WW3023. Source stated that subject's. nephew, "Santigo" had been
given the 1955 Plymouth previously owned by the subject.

On December 18, 1958, HAV-31 informed that a Cuban by
‘the: name of FNU SOSA is the publicity agent for the Sans Souci

@ambling casino, as well as the gambling casino in the Hotel ~.
Comodoro., Source said that an individual named BENN ERNANDEZs ~

a Tampa gambler, is the new manager of the Comodoro casino.
should be noted that TRAFFICANTE Has been een reported t t6 be" the NOs bee
principal interest holder in this casino. er

1 Blase
On January 1, 1959, after the downfall of the BATISTA

Government mobs‘of people: ransacked some of the gambling casinos S

 

in Havana during a period when law and order were nonexistent.

The Hotel Deauville casino in which TRAFFICANTE has a 50% interest
was ransacked and the gambling equipment thrown into the street.
Repairs are underway in this casino.

 

In addition, the slot machines were removed by a group
of unknown individuals from Ane F275 SPE Re gambling casino. The
remai' gl equi }pment in this § Oo Was damaged. Source advised :
that TRAFFI Nr rhe able to take Breyinon with the gambling wo
equipment : at, the Hotel Comodor@@fl he had the equipment. stored :

in various rr the hotel, As a result none of this equipmenty a

was damagedé REC 7192 - DTK Em SG?
ag

  

7 _ Bubdaas * & f ie sat! SO iy Fa
1 - Havana ny, bt § a na fe
DJB: MEG “li Y/. Pte oN elo y

(8) : a % oS ce

 

Docld:32566371 Page 1
