S ADDRESS G7FICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
a | THE SECRETARY OF STATE
=~ WASHINGTON 25, D.C. Hi

DEPARTMENT OF STATE Botle

WASHINGTON

 
    

s/s 12362
SECRET

August 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. McGEORGE BUNDY -
THE WHITE HOUSE

SUBJECT: Government Crisis in Congo (Brazzaville)

President. Youlou of Congo (Brazzaville) resigned on August 15
when the French emy, which had answered his appeal to intervene to
preserve order, in accordance with a secret agreement, received
instructions from de Gaulle not to obey Youlou's orders to fire on
the crowd. An interim committee of four Congolese army officers took
over the government power to "assure order", On the morning of

‘August 16 a provisional government of techriicians under the leadership
of Alphonse Massamba-Debat was announced and a statement broadcast

by the chairman of the military interim committee officially transferred
"civil, political and military powers", allegedly received from the
former President, to the new head of government. (See enclosed list
of new Cabinet members.) The National Assembly has been dissolved.
but no date has been set for new elections, Youlou and about 50
others, including all former ministers except, apparently, Minister

of Industrial Production Bazinga, are now under Congolese amy
protection or detention. The Congolese army is maintaining tight
security in the African quarters of Brazzaville and the night curfew
is still on. :

 

 

; Widely travelled (including visits to both the United States and
the Soviet Union), able and intelligent, Masssmba—Debat is an old
UDDIA party comrade of Youlou's. He was, however, relieved first of
his post as President of the National Assembly and later as Minister
of Planning for expressing too many independent ideas. Offered the

‘post of Ambassador to Paris in May of this year, he refused what was
probably an attempt to get him out of the country. It is not clear,
however, at what point he began to take an active role in recent
developments nor whether he was the choice of the labor leaders or
the army, or merely the best candidate to present himself.

With the

SECRET.

 

 

AW 49061 DocId:32626336 Page 2
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10274
RECORD SERIES. : National Security Files: William H. Brubeck
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : NUFK
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : John F. Kennedy document Control Record
DATE : 8/19/1963 |
PAGES : #2.
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 383: Congo 8/63-11/63. Box 4.

AW 49061 DocId:32626336 Page 1
HW 49061

_ SECRET
-2—

With the exception of the Chief of Government and the Minister of

. Interior, the new ministers have not held political office before,

Mostly young university graduates, many formerly held directorships
in the ministries they now head. Many of them have shown a definite
friendliness toward the U.S, The new Chief of Government was a leader
grantee in 1962 and the new Foreign Minister arrived in Washington

’ August 16 at the end of his leader grant visit. We have no indication

of specific political orientation of the new Cabinet. Most of them

are known to have been dissatisfied with the former regime's corruption
and waste and, as young members of the elite, they may be presumed to
support a more "nationalist" stand than did Youlou. However, the new
government has pledged to maintain all the international relations of
its predecessor and to respect its agreements. It has expressed special
friendship and gratitude toward France, and particularly for the
noninterference of the French army.

We are not yet able to estimate with any certainty the new
government's chances for survival. Still unclear are the respective
roles of the labor leaders and the Congolese arwy in recent developments,
the present attitude of the former toward the provisional government,
and the extent and sources of support for a possible comeback attempt
by Youlou. We do not know what decision the French government will

’ make on recognition. We are also awaiting indication of the positions

of the African states in this regard. Reports indicate that some UAM
governments have sought reassurances from de Gaulle and are even
considering attempting a reconciliation between Youlou and his enemies.
Meanwhile, in answer to a request for guidance, we have authorized

our Embassy in Brazzaville to maintain cordial informal contacts

with the potentially friendly new government, but to avoid any action
which implies recognition.

 

Benjamin

Enclosure:
Executive Secretary

List of Provisional Government

SECRET

 

 

DocId: 327626336 Page 3
