 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE ;
ET AL

Verhelle found that three other Directors also were borrowing
from PB at that time. Also about the same time a Director of
FDIC allegedly wanted to borrow $80,000.00 from PB, but
verhelle refused because he did not feel the loan would be
easily collectible. . ; :

. About two weeks after writing the Attorney General,
verhelle allegedly was told he could have a complimentary
ticket to a $100-a-plate dinner for Vice President Lyndon B.
Johnson in Detroit, and Verhelle was to sit near the speaker's
table and a photograph would be taken of Verhelle and Vice
President Johnson together in a friendly pose. Verhelle
declined, purportedly because he “wouldn't: sell that cheap",
He indicated that a former Assistant Prosecuting Attorney in
Detroit, now on Vice President Johnson's staff, had something
to do with the above arrangements and still has some liaison
with Verhelle, Verhelle stated that at other Board meetings
during the examination he was criticized for loans he had
made and the Directors felt the loans they had made to them-
selves were all right, so he "resigned". :

This document contains neither Yecommendations nor
conclusions of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is
loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

SQLAQVSE

DocId: 32309292 Page 7

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; ~

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL :

In regard to an impending trial of Hoffa before
United States District Judge Richard Austin in Chicago,
vVerhelle indicated he had learned that Robert C. Meissner,
of Chicago, reportedly was well acquainted with political
associates of Judge Austin. Verhelle expressed great
interest in the fact that this acquaintanceship might be
of assistance to Hoffa, and Verhelle indicated he would be
in contact with Hoffa and Meissner concerning this possibility.
Verhelle said he had previously been in contact with Meissner
about 1961 in connection with Niagara Crushed Stone (Humber-
stone), Ltd. (NCS). .

. 5 ftL

y
Ve @ apparently still has business contact

with Elliot;Janeway, with whom he had dealings in 1961: con-
cerning NCS.‘ Janeway reportedly had something to do with
buying accounts receivable of NCS. It was also believed
that the Crown family of Chicago had a substantial ownership
in some of Janeway's operations, such as his economic :
counseling service, ;

In regard to Vendorama of Ohio, Inc., Verhelle

-once stated that. he knew of a Vendorama company but it had

nothing to do with NCS. ‘

hs

Me
In regard earborn Machinery Movers, Inc., now

bankrupt, Verhelle said he Had offered to buy this corpora-

‘tion's note; which was held by Public Bank, but Verhelle's

offer was not accepted grid he felt the bank would consequently
suffer a loss.  Josept/Galli, former president of this corpora-

tion, is reporte Ol @ West Coagt and has a business which
verhelle is helping to-finance./1/CH/ ,
ee

Verhelle also advised he had spent some time in the

Dominican Republic -several years ago and while there he did
business wrth Yanue]/Pemaya Kimbert (present head of a
military junta) and with the n dictator Trujillo. It was

believed this trip may have had some connection with Bartone
or other matters. . e

SQWAQISL

~ 2

DocId: 32309292 Page 5

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

_ JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE;
ET AL

With regard to Verhelle's present relationship to
Public Bank, Detroit, (PB) he indicated he unofficially has
been helping PB's Board of Directors but PB recently had
made some loans which Verhelle believes will be uncollectible,
and he is looking forward to PB's collapse. Verhelle
indicated that while he was at PB the big loans always were
paid off and there were almost no defaults, with the exception
of small loans for $3,000.00 or less. Verhelle claimed he
has bought a bank on the outskirts of Detroit where two of
his sons are working and learning the banking business; and
at a propitious time this bank may open a branch office in
competition with PB and with the intention of picking up as
many PB accounts as possible. According to Verhelle the
following sequence of events led to his departure from PB:

On December 26, 1961, seventeen men arrived to
begin an examination of PB, Verhelle did not believe they
were from the regular State or Federal examining agencies
and was of the opinion they sounded more like lawyers than
bank examiners or auditors. He felt it was inconsiderate to
start an examination between the year-end holidays and also
he would have preferred to have PB's year-end figures "in
order“ before the examiners arrived. This examination pre-
cipitated a series of meetings of the PB Board of Directors,
and Verhelle ‘objected to the manner in which one examiner
allegedly criticized a loan which had been made by PB to three
Negroes. Verhelle wrote a letter to Attorney General Robert
F. Kennedy to protest the "irregular" manner in which the
examination was being conducted, but allegedly no reply was
received. Verhelle encouraged the Chairman‘of the Board of
Directors not to attend one of the meetings, causing a delay
and necessitating written notices for such meetings. About
that time Verhelle decided to go to a hospital for a thorough
physical examination and rest. Upon his return to PB he was
told by one of the officers that in Verhelle's absence one of
the Directors allegedly wanted to borrow $150,000.00 from PB
but. the officer refused that amount and only lent him $50,000.00.

-4-

 QRAAQV SS |

DoclId:32309292 Page 6

 
 

FBI

Date: 11/12/63

Transmit the following in

 

(Type in plain text or code)

    

 

AM
(Priority or Method of Mailing)

mo ee ee --- _ —-—---—l-—-~--~-~

 

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

DOMINIG EDWARD BARTONE, aka

FROM: SACs, DETROIT (29-1432) (P)
ee Sams RIDDLE HOFFA; ef, , phe We

   
 

ET AL
FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW;
CONSPIRACY ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
00: DETROIT HEREIN 1S UNGLASSIFL
waeld-1/ ELLME
Remyairtels 11/7 and 8/63. JFIC)

Enclosed herewith is a letterhead memorandum containing
information concerning JOSEPH F, VERHELLE and others, This
information was obtained by Department Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH,
Detroit, from ROBERT C, MEISSNER. . One copy each of the
letterhead memorandum is being furnished Chicago and Miami
inasmuch as MEISSNER resides in Chicago and information con-
cerning DOMINIG BARTONE of the Miami Division is also contained
i in the memorandum,

 

. One copy of the letterhead memorandum also is being furnished
\ to Department Attorney FRENCH at Detroit.

 

cosas

res Bureau (Enc. iy
1 - Chicago(Info., ) (29-1999) (Enc. 1)
1- Miami (Info. (29-1217) (Enc. 1)

 

   
 

1 - Detroit
5 LI 7
7 VGW/pmp & ye ened Weaee ret: 16 LT. J B87— Is
| (6) FS) . "2
| & . oe aaa Fs) Nov. 131963
| { ‘Cina iol, oan :
fA 4 fl e-6O ey

4

 

Attention’. Mr: Walter J. Sheridan
Rosin: 2509" .

oo

Appt

cola Agent in Charge

 

 

DoclId:32309292 Page 2
 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date:

4/21/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10079
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 29-31889-159
~ Document Information
- ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, DE
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: = 11/12/1963
. PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS : ;
[Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 10/18/1996
OPENING CRITERIA :. APPROVAL OF DOJ
COMMENTS: | REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LHM
6

v9.1

DoclId:32309292 Page 1

32
 

 

 

UN. 2D STATES DEPARTMENT OF  “STICE

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

"In Reply, Please’ Refer to Detroit, Michigan
File No. , November 12, 1963

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; DOMINICK
EDWARD BARTONE; ET AL :
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE
ah ricorgaiOn CONTARED TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN

HEREIN IS ae 3 PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY
pate {lL (WIRE; CONSPIRACY
nncfis .
y We hy -

The following info tion, based upon statements 2
reportedly made by Joseph pAverhelie at various times in Len hye,
the past, was received by the Departmént of Justice from a

confidential source who has furnished reliable information
in the past: :

 

 

|
At present Verhelle apparently is not so personally
antagonistic’ toward Dominick Edward Bartone as he had |
indicated he was in the past. Verhelle evidently is aware od
of current plans by’ Bartone regarding a real estate develop- |
ment, in Florida, the amounts of money required, etc. In : .
régard to Bartone's appearance before a Federal Grand Jury
at Detroit in about September, 1963, Verhelle commented that
"they" had difficulty getting Bartone to agree to "take the
Fifth". Verhelle stated that he, himself, also had "taken
the Fifth" before a Federal Grand Jury at Detroit recently.
Verhelle was relieved that the subpoena did not require him
to bring personal or bank records; and he indicated that
records pertinent to this matter are presently in Canada, but
he could produce them in Detroit very quickly if he needed
them. . '

Verhelle expressed pride in having been able to
avoid service of the Grand Jury subpoena for several weeks
and mentioned that he did so with the encouragement and
assistance of his wife. Verhelle finally accepted service
of the subpoena only after Lawrence Burns, a Detroit Teamsters
attorney who is a neighbor of Verhelle, had talked With a

 

, . . 3 d2~ aa ~ |

we nee ne

 

DoclId:32309292 Page 3
 

 

 

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;
DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE; .
ET AL o oa

process server who was keeping close watch outside Verhelle's
house one night after Verhelle had surreptitiously darted in
the back door. Verhelle said that the following morning he
talked to James R. Hoffa who told him they should use
separate attorneys. :

. Verhelle claims he is very busy as a financial
consultant, has full knowledge of the investments of Hoffa
and Walter Reuther, and handles investments for both of them.
Verhelle sees Hoffa when he is in town and talkas to him on
the telephone very frequently. Rather than call Hoffa or
Reuther from his home, Verhelle now leaves the house and uses
one of several public telephone booths in the vicinity.
Verhelle goes to Chicago approximately every ten days or two
_ weeks and attends all meetings of the Teamsters Central States
Investment Committee as well as unofficial but decisive meetings
' which precede the committee meetings. Verhelle claims to
have an important part in deciding what loans will be made
even before a preliminary check has-been made concerning an
application. Verhelle appeared to be familiar with the status
of equity holders and mortgages in regard to the Shoreland
' Hotel in Chicago. Verhelle indicated that ‘when in Chicago he
also talks to officers of the Continental National Bank,
particularly an Executive Vice President by the name of Miller
who may have joined the bank staff recently through its merger
with another bank. ,

Verhelle indicated that both Hoffa and Reuther think
highly of the present Governor of Michigan, George Romney, but
feel he is too naive. Mrs. Romney is a close friend of Mrs.

_ Verhelle and visits her home about every three weeks. Verhelle
has been very close to the former Governor of Michigan, John B.
Swainson, and thinks he has a good chance of making a political
comeback, but Verhelle is concerned about Swainson now being
“spoiled", that is, not being so sychophantic as previously.

~

a -, ¢

 

 

 

Rae W938

 

 

DocId: 32309292 Page 4
