 

 

e. Test the continuity of the target telephone service and, if |
satisfactory, transfer the drop wire serving the target instrument from
Binding Post 8 to the pair described in b.

Complete wiring diagrams and detailed installation procedures
will accompany the equipment.

The ability to install either of the above-described techniques is
contingent upon the substitution of an altered instrument in the target area
and making certain chang he terminal box at the rear of 906 South 8th
Street. The BIRD will require a full-time "quiet" battery supply from the —
telephone and the installation of a recovery unit at the working appearance for
the target instrument. The ZAM will require no change in the telephone
pattery source but. will needa small secure area in which the automatic.
SPMT equipment may be concealed. It is not necessary that this SPMT
equipment be in the immediate area of the target instrument, The only
change required at the working appearance for the target instrument is to”
shift the drop wire from the assigned Binding Post to a new Binding Post
described in 2b.

  

 

  

Another factor to consider in this case is the matter of readable
signal. The MISUR signal between the and the recovery unit is not
readable with headphones or a linesman's test set whereas the signal level
of the ZAM is readable with headphones or a linesman's test set.

 

 

 

DoclId:32576614 Page 5
 

 

 

 

 

‘March 9, 1965

 

installation tochiiques 8 are Topsites for your ‘consideration.

4. BIRD. This anit employs the same principle as the. BAT
described « on page 27, Part 4, of the Handbook of Technical Equipment. :
The mal Pophione unit is ‘small sotene to be concealed w wit is the network of

  
    
 
  

noua not ‘affect normal it telapfone operations”
this device, you should eeheck Wath your sources

central office ‘tine equipment, " paxtticularty: to determine whether it will be
reported by the automatic line«checking (tésting) equipment.

‘As with the BAT, the: intelligence picked tip by the. microphone
cannot be. heard by use of a Haesman's test set cr with ordinary headphones.
Relatively eomplex equipment is required to recover the intelligence.

. . Phe recovery equipment : is. in. a cylinder measuring 1" in dianieter
and 15"Jong. This e ent should bem an ‘on the pole or along the cable
in-the rear of 906 | Sth Street. The i@phone line should loop
through the recov: ‘unit by- connecting. a: pair of Wires from this unit to

- Binding Post 8 and another pair of wires from this unit to the drop line
serving the target instrument. A third paiy of wires from the recovery
‘unit should be. connected to the leased Nine back to the central monitoring
point. The microphone: covérage | (signal) is audible between thé recovery

unit, and the monitoring plant and can be read with 4 pair of headphones or

a linesman's test set.

 
         

  

 

gccegun _ Ad %

Gad 4

 

 

 

DoclId:32576614 Page 2

 
 

 

 

 

 

ala” a . . as
- Fy tae, 2) c
£ : ‘ o>.

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027 Sub F). . March 9, 196
Director, FBI (92-6054) JUNE or |

6

 

LA COSANOSTRA
_ PHELADELPHIA DIVISION -
AR; CONSPIRACY =.

. ReBulet 2/11/64 and telephone call from Supervisor Dave Breen
and SA John R. Pearce, of your office, in captioned matter. The telephone
cable information, previously supplied, .and technical data telephonically

: furnished kave been reviewed in the Laboratory. The Laboratory's technical
observations are attached for study by the sound-trained personnel of your = -~
office. ne se oe

You'should, after a review of the attached by your sound-trained

_ Agents, advise the Bureau the technique you propose to install in the target
area, The telephone instrument you desire altered should be sent to the
Laboratory for installation of the disguised MISUR equipment. In scheduling
the installation date, a minimum of three weeks, after receipt of the equip-
ment in the Laboratory should be allowed for the packaging of the line e
equipment and altering the instrument, :

 

Hf, in your opinion, you feel on-the-spot technical assistance of
the Laboratory is needed, you should so indicate in your reply.

This technical data is for use by your office in evaluating the
installation possibilities ‘in this case and dees not constitute authority to
make. the installation, Authority to install must be obtained separately.

Enc. (2) vas
oan REC. Ig qa b Pyesay Th
° A: et TO '
{ Seles ee :

ret enmetentO

 

| Telson
Belmont
Mohr
DeLoach
Casper
Callahan
Conrad

as MAR LL 1965 ;

 

 

- he PMA eT te] — oe
Re WAR-91965;

. ca Mi-Fal

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

“Sullivan
, Tavel
‘Urotter

 

 

 

i ‘Tele. Room £ a .
| WAR Lad

 

Bey
TELETYPE UNIT |

 

i
_—s

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32576614 Page 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Regulated Power ‘Supply will be connected to the leased line
in the monitoring plant to furnish operating current for the recovery unit
: -yeamplify the MISUR signal. The transmission range for the output
. ‘6f the recovery unit should be no move than five wire miles. If the trans

mission range exceeds this limit, it may be necessary to install the

preamplifier at a multiple point, suchas at the corner of South 6th Street
and Washington Avenue, If the'multiple point is used, provision must be made
for the installation of a Regulat ad Power Supply in. a secure place. accessible

 
  

     

power supply. A second leased | ine | for transmitting the output
from the Regulated Power Supply pack to the monitoring plant.

. In summary, if the mukiple appearance is used for this
installation, one paix of wires must be reserved or leased to provide a
transmission path from the recovéry unit to the multiple appearance and 4
second leased pair is used for trangmission of the preamplified signal output
of thé Regulated Power Supply te the field office monitoring plant. ;

 

  
 

2 Zener Activated Microphone (ZAM). This technique employs
the same instal tion principle as the Single-Pair Microphone-Télephone
(SPMT) technique described on page 181, Part I of the Handbook of Technical

Equipment. A ZAM unit may be ‘installed in the network of a Western Electric ‘
500-type telephone set instead of the altered condenser can described in the
manual. . ;

if this: technique i is employed, a secure area, either in close
proximity to the terminal box in. the rear of 906 South 8th or at the multiple
appearance at Washington Avenue and South 8th Street, where the target
telephone line can be looped through a concealed automatic SPMT unit.
The automatic SPMT whit is contained in four cases as follows: .

A. An SPMT switching unit measuring 7 5/8" wide, 8 1/4" high
and 10" deep. This unit automatically transfers the target line from "Telephone"
to "Microphone" immediately when the hand piece is removed from the cradle.
Approximately 7. 5 seconds after the hand piece is restored to the cradle
(hung up) this unit will automatically switch to the "Microphone" mode for
-MISUR coverage, Because this unit is position sensitive it Should be operated
in-the vertical position at ail times.

  

BOA pattery supply measuring.6" wide, 4 3/8" high and 5" deep
contains the batteriés.to operate the microphone, current regulating

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32576614 Page 3
 

 

 

 

devices to prevent excessive current damaging the microphone and a meter
to measure microphone current. It is recommended that the batteries in
this unit be replaced with fresh batteries no less than once each a week,

‘The SPMT unit must be in the "OFF" mode while the batteries are being
changed.

- €. Remote control tone switching unit.. This mit, ina case
measuring 7" wide, 5 3/4" high and 15" deep, is used to turn the SPMT unit
on and off, Included nis unit is a transistorized audio amplifier to bring
the MISUR signal up to the normal telephone line transmission level.

 
 

D. Notch filter, This unit measures 3 3/4" wide, 5 3/4" high
and 5 1/4" deep. This is used to prevent certain voice : frequencies from
activating the tone equipment described in G

The equipment, described in AsD, above, must be placed in a
_ B6cure room or Space where the target line may be looped through the SPMT
uit, A 110«volt source at 3 amperes must be available for the equipment.
The equipment should be placed in ‘a dust-free enclosure accessible for
servicing.

 

The steps for installing this technique are as follows:

4. Substitute an altered telephone for the instrument now in the
target area.

b. Have a spare. ¢ cable pair available for sétvice from the remote
plant to the terminal pox in the rear of 906 South 8th Street. If a.secure area
‘ig Selected in close proximity to 906 South 8th Street, it will not be necessary
te provide a cable pair for service between the SPMT unit and the target line
aa the target line may be looped through the sfmt unit vid a four-conductor
drop line,

 

 

; ¢. Set.up the remote plant, as set forth above, looping the target
line from Binding Post 7 at 8th Street and. Washington Avenue, through the

SPMT equipment to the spare cable pair terminating in the rear of 906 South |
8th Street, |

 

 

d, Connect the cable pair running to the monitoring plant to the
‘output of the automatic SPMT unit..

a3 «

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32576614 Page 4
