pranch of government in terms of a mass of materials.
ay] In order to investigate, it seems to me that there

must be a review made as to what has been aohe up until now.
I do not see how, in looxing and deciding the directions
to go, there can be any intelligent approach without finding
out what has been done, “analyZie it, determinveger in
AWE reas QO cas to be done, ifmanibiinqemneaddinlonp
1 O€DER 10
tecabw@isSmm be able to make a determination what else has
to be done.

Each of you has before you a book in which we have
laid out an approach in each of these two cases. The
question I think was raised as to why should we proceed on
both matters, the two assassinations at the same time?

With regard to that question, let me respond as follows:
I tnink it important that we proceed simultaneously, for
| the reason that, as I look at it, as a homicide investigator-
prosecutor, we are being called to the scene of two homicides
really 13 years later and 8 years later. I do not think
it is in the interests of this Congress, if it means what
it said, investigating the matters thoroughly, that the
Congress ought to be part of any further delay.

For example, it has come to my attention that since
at least the resolution on which this committee is presently

here as passed by the Congress, that authorities in Tennessee

have destroyed some documents relating to the surveillance

 

DoclId: 32264096 Page 9
23

25

8

on Dr. King. If that be so, and I have sent an investigative
team down to Memphis, it emphasizes the fact that any delay
on either one of these investigations is not really in the
interests of the Congress to do a thorough job.

Gj there is another reason. As again an investigator
and homicide prosecutor, to me one of the essentials in a
thorough investigation is not to have a time limitation.
This is a different species of animal than the Congress
wanting to have say the unemployment statistics in Michigan
a week from Thursday and you can get it. You cannot in this
area say wrap up that matter by dx months from today. Once
you put a limitation, a time barrier, that is destructive of
the investigative team, because what happens, and I speak
from experience here, the areas of inquiry, the people
who are being subject to the investigation, (asd\¢hen) that
ime limitation as a point where they know that if they get
a delay, if they get lost for a while, if they tie you up in
court for a while, they can really end up preventing the
conclusion of the investigation. I think it would be a
mistake, and again my main assumption is that what is
intended here is to do a thorough job, professional job,
definitive as can be, to start imposing some barrier of
timey Te we were to proceed, for example, in the King
assassination first, there would be a great push to get that

wrapped up, so we could get on Kennedy, ené—“ice-vemsa. If

Docld: 32264096 Page 10
1 to me that what has to be for this investigation to be

r . 2 thorough, at least attempt to be definitive, is an independent
3 investigative staff of the Congress, not beholden to any

@ 4 other agency of government. Again that is one of the

5 assumptions that I have made in analyzing what has to be

6 done, and making a determination to recommend to you as

7 to what kind of staff is necessary for this investigationg

8 I am not stating whether or not the Congress was aware as

9 to what really is involved in the investigation of two

10 homicides, two deaths. It is not something that you do with

" three investigators and two file clerks.

12 FD pon taking this assignment, I have instituted a number
, e 13 of measures, and have taken certain actions up to this

14 point, one of which was to be in touch with agencies of

15 the fxecutive Pranch of government, the CIA, the Department :

16 of Justice, who spoke in behalf of that department and the

7 FBI, to initiate requests for access to material in their

18 possession. Suffice to say that the indications up to this

19 point have been that of full cooperation, and I might say |

20 that in speaking to the representative from the CIA, he

21 advised me that just at the initiation of our investigation,

29 the CIA has some 64 cartons of documents for examination |

93 and review, which points out to some extent really the

size of the task that is being undertaken here, because
24 - ; ; Ney
95 we are dealing there with just one £ the Frecutive

Docld:32264096 PHge &
25

and the extent to which those other agencies withheld .
information, or did certain acts that perhaps indicate
destruction of documents affecting the results of the
investigation.

Gi I am not 1 stating, saying whether those things are
so or not. I want to say to this committee that I have
no conclusions, I have not the slightest opinion, with
regard to either death, with regard to any wrongdoing by -
any agencies of government, with regard to any inaccuracies,
with regard to what has been developed in the past. I take
the function now to be to thoroughly investigate and
ascertain what is the evidence, indicating who in fact
were the participants in either of the assassinations.

Is there any additional evidence that was not known
earlier? )

In addition, is there any evidence indicating that
there may have been participation ineach of the assassinations
by more than one person, and whether or not any agencies
of government have impeded attempts to ascertain the answers
to those questions before?

With that again being an assumption on my part, I take

_ it that this Congress would not, in authorizing this

investigation, have as its investigators the agencies of

the Federal Government that perhaps might be part of the

area to be investigated. By that, to be specific, it seems

Docld: 32264096 Pie 7
21

22

25

DoclId: 32264096

3
point, what analysis has been made by the staff with regard
to what the needs are of staff in the direction of the —
investigation. Suffice to say that in being asked to
become chief counsel and director of this investigation,

I have entered upon those duties with a number of assumptions.
The first assumption is that it is the intent of the Congress
in passing the resolution on the investigation of the two
assassinations of Dr. King and President Kennedy, to see
that the investigations are done in a thorough professional
manner, the kind of manner that can withstand, as it ought
to, any searching analysis as to what has been done on a
day-by-day basis.

"qd With that in mind, I have also accepted the basic

assumption that since one of the reasons that these

, z

4

Ghairman Downing. Let me interrupt, Mr. Sprague.

investigations have come to pass is that

John Anderson has been appointed to fill in the vacancy
i +e Reva) wen
{formerly occupied by Congress, Talcott, and he is on his way
here now, so if you will just desist for the moment, and
we will wait for Mr. Anderson.

[Short recess.]

Chairman Downing. The committee will again come to
order.

I have a letter here from Mr. John J. Rhodes, minority

leader, addressed to the Speaker: "As a result of the

ge 5
1 resignation of the Ho Burt L. Talcott for the

e . 2 Select Committee on Assassinations, I now make the appointment
3 of the Honorable John B. Anderson."

r) 4 Dur. Anderson, welcome aboard. This committee is very

§ || grateful to have your talents.

6 Mr. Anderson, Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
7 Mr. Harvey. Percy Harvey from Mr. Harold Ford's staff.
° 8 Chairman Downing. John, Mr. Sprague is just beginning ©

9 his presentation.
10 ALL right, Mr. Sprague.
Tr Mr. Sprague. Mr. Chairman, if I may, I will just
12 || start from the beginning.
e@ : a As I was stating, upon taking this position as chief
14 counsel and director, I have taken it with a number of

assumptions which I think I ought to state preliminarily.

15

16 One is that the Congress of the United States, in passing
17 ‘the resolution for the Select Committee on Assassinations,
18 intends that there be a thorough, hopefully definitive

19 investigation with regard to each of the assassinations,
20 Martin Luther King and President Kennedy.

21 Second, I have made an assumption that one of the
22 reasons that these investigations have come into being is
23 that questions have arisen, criticism has arisen, with
24 regard to prior investigations, the extent to which other
25 agencies of government, particularly the Jxecutive pranch

of government, participated in those previous investigations,

Docld:32264096 PRge 6
 

Morey, November 15, 1976
Washington, Be Gy

 

 
JFK Assassination System ‘Date: 10/7/201

Identification Form
; Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10111-10191
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILENUMBER: 014624 ;
_ Document Information
,ORIGINATOR: HSCA :
FROM: .
TO:

TITLE: EXECUTIVE SESSION-BUSINESS MEETING

DATE: 11/15/1976 . oe

PAGES: 146
SUBIECTS : : Bo
‘ HSCA, ADMINISTRATION, STAFF
wc _ -
SPRAGUE, RICHARD A.
PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS.

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: — Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: — 08/17/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS.: Hearings 3 successive folders (2-2), 1st hearing marked "Dupolicate Corrections", also Dodd's opening
statement. MLK materials withdrawn pp. 31-35. Box #:263.

 

v1 : I
DoclId:32264096 Page 1
BOB CANTOR
ty

N

@ 24

25

5 Docld: 32264096

ge 3

  
   
  
   
   
     

 

gu) 2 Commi flee
are BUSINESS MEETING

SL
a “
fa 1205 Monday, November 15, 1976
cy
are’,

‘aem., in floom 2310, Rayburn House Office Building, the
Hongaenioke Thomas N. Downing (¢hairman) presiding.

Present: Representatives Downing, (presiding), Devine,
Gonzalez , McKinney, Preyer, Thone, Stokes, Fauntroy, Burke,
Dodd, Ford, and Anderson.

Also present: Richard A. Sprague, ghiet gounsel and
Pixrector; Kenneth Brooten, founsel; Donovan L. Gay, fniet
yesearcher; , Richard Feeney, Billie Gay Larson, Rebecca Martin,

sistant;
ristine Groden,

      

»
¢onmittee gtaft 3/Gus Edwards Robert Groden,

 

figsurtants: Gail Beagle, Bruce Gwinn, Percy Harvey, Joe

McGee, Vicki Peckham faministrative pssistants; Feter D.

islative
ssistants;

 
 

Lennon, Robert H. Maloney, Henry Spring, jie

     

Quentin L. Burgess, pratt posistanti and William Briggs,

   

frase ylenber.
25

2

Fi chairman powning. For the purposes of the record, I

would like each person in the room to identify themselves

with their title.

Mr.

office.

Burgess. Quentin Burgess. I am with Mrs. Burke's
Maloney. Robert Maloney. Congressman Stokes'

Beagle. Gail Beagle, Congressman Gonzalez's office.

Me. Martin. Rebecca Martin, with the committee staff.

Gay. Donovan L. Gay, committee staff.
Sprague. Richard A. Sprague, chief counsel. —
Feeney. Richard Feeney, committee staff.
Peckham. . Vicki Peckham, Mr. Thone's office.
Larson. Billie Gay Larson, committee staff.
Lennon. Peter Lennon, Mr. Dodd's staff.
McGee. Joe McGee, Mr. McKinney’ staff.
Spring. Henry Spring, Mr. McKinney's office.
Groden. Christine Groden, consultant.
Groden. Robert Groden, consultant.

Briggs. William Briggs, Congressman Fauntroy's staff.

Chairman Downing. The first item on the executive

session will be a presentation by Mr. Sprague.

Sprague. “Mr. Chairman and members of the felect

fommittee:

I would like to take up what has been done up to this

Docld:32264096 Page 4
