 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ PG 92-236 PG 92-228

on 12/19/61, PG.612-C, who,is an experienced numbers writer
in the MANNARINO operationiMnNew Kensington, was asked about
the dearth of pertinent information being received, and
informant advised: ;

The town (New Kensington) has been chosed down almost
completely, as regards gambling, since the "Pederal raid
last summer” and since the commencement of the FGJ inquiry.
Besides the numbers racket, which is down in volume by at
least half, there are only three card games in the city,
only one of which is operating on any given night. Horse
bets, sports bets and dice games have been eliminated,
allegedly by orders of the MANNARINOS. : Men who have been
for years employed in one phase or another of the MANNARINO
gambling set-ups are now loafing about town, and their
principal. topics of discussion concern the FGJ hearings,
their belief that the newly-elected reform administration
in New Kensington will not allow resumption of open gambling,
and their "fears" concerning their own futures. With
regard to the numbers racket, elaborate security measures
have been put into effect, and only those possessing the
Federal Wagering Tax. Stamprare permitted to participate.
In view of these facts, pertinent. information has been scarce
“ and’ unreliable. .

' Spot surveillances at residences, legitimate business sites’
and at known hangouts during the past four months have been
wholly unproductive and tend to substantiate the comments of
the above mentioned informants.

Due to the situation created by the IRS raid on August eu,

1961, and the resultant FGJ probe, as it affects receipt

py the Pittsburgh Office of positive information concerning

the MANNARINOS and their activities, the Pittsburgh office

-has found it impossible to comply fully with Bureau instructions
concerning submission of a daily teletype summary of pertinent
developments... . : :

As matters now stand, the. only readily discernible method

of collecting current positive information concerning either
| MANNARINO is by establishing highly.confidential.sources.

DoclId:32301191 Page 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OL i 22 1962

 

   

“OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
. 5010-10401

. ., UNITED STATE!*“GOVERNMENT

“Memorandum = a“
To: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)(92-2918) pare: 38/9/6223.
jo : SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)
sonpecr: cxsnreunnenan, aka . oN
SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

on ‘12/18/61, PG 615-C advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III
as follows: ,
In his opinion, the raid at the Mannarino gambling casino -.

horse room in New. Kensington, Pa., on August 24, 1961, by IRS,
Pittsburgh, was ill-advised, shortsighted and poorly planned.

L408 -

For two years, PG 615-C has been attempting to obtain increasing,
better information about the Mannarinos, their illegal.. :
activities, their associates and their future plans. He

has done this without any thought of, or desire for monetary
compensation, simply-because of his firm conviction that

the MANNARINO "strangle-hold" on all phases of life and
activity in the New Kensington area had to be broken.

In spite of the obvious dangers.to his professional reputation
and personal safety, he commenced a process of infiltration
due to his belief that such things cannot be left to

“somebody else.”

 

eaters
eo Baan

peat

By frequenting gambling establishments, PG 615-C met many 4
of the MANNARINO employees, and by performing small favors a
for them, professional and otherwise, he pecame friendly re)
with most of “them and the confidant of some of them. F

They furnished considerable’ information, some more valuable &

than others, but-a compendium of their bits of information
was forming a gradually clearing picture of the entire
MANNARINO operation. ~

6- Bee mua Qp.
1-.137-941 Lip
WH 15 17, 13771139 NS
1+

mec qIY-
he é pepe = _ ion 4 _
é@ DEBE vs Melee iO: F 44 ~ ZL! j / ~“F A47

TORYRIG
(20) ve JAN 1962

 

 

 

| Docla: 32301191 Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 5/28/20}
Identification Form

II A I

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: = 124-10278-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 92-2914-247

ee I I I i a

, Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, PG
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

“DATE: — 01/03/1962
PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
GM, SMO, ASSOC, RAID, GAMBLING ACT, RACK ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: = INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

a.

13

 

~ WO1
DoclId:32301191 Page 1

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- ean be expected is that more "little fish” will be prosecuted

 

 

a

. PG 92 -236 PG.92-228.

Through political and business friends and acquaintances,

PG 615-C was able to meet the MANNARINOS. Being careful

to make his personal contacts with them casual and seemingly
innocuous, ,PG 615-C was slowly accomplishing his plan to
have: the MANNARINOS, after doing their normal check on

him, accept him. into that group of prominent, local business
and professional people with. whom they associate on a

social basis. PG 615-C had, reachéd the point where he could
visit SAM MANNARINO's restaurant, the Bonfire, near
Leechburg, Pa., and talk with MANNARINO rather openly about
such things as MANNARINO's use of narcotics. He had also ~~
reached the point where he had been invited to sit in on
small friendly card games at GABRIEL MANNARINO's new '
cottage near Leechburg., a

From this so far limited proximity to thé MANNARINOS. and. ie
their employees, it became apparent. to PG 615-C that the
obtaining of a complete understanding of their operations

was going to be painfully but necessarily slow,

when the August ‘24, 1961 raid occurred, theresult was that

the MANNARINOS ordered a moratorium'’on al]-/illegal activities
and ordered that their associates and employees should,
insofar as was practicable, eave no contact with them or

with each other, until advised ‘to, the contrary. All of

these ‘people are under .jastrus tions not to "talk" if called.
before the FaJ in Pittsburgh/ and PG 615-C is convinced none
of them will assist #n€ Federal Government because. of fears
of physical and ecetmic neprisals.

; a _
Because of the/ra3/a° and the ensuing instructions from " ,
the MANNARINOS, BG 615-C has temporarily lost many of his
contacts »“and in addition, there is just. so little happening —

_ain the Wfew Kensington area that there is very little
_. finfexiation that he can obtain and furnish to the Pittsburgh

office.

will once again escape indictment and that the most that

PG 615-C is certain, in his own mind, that .the "big guys” |
:

If this happens, the MANNARINOS will maintain their : .
self-created, self-serving reputations as being "untouchable" %
by prosecutive action, and the populace of New Kensington f
will sink back into despair. . .

 

DoclId:32301191 Page 3

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PG 92-236 PG 92-228

,

In view of the above, PCI HERBERT LEE RAY, RD#3, Leechburg, —
Pa., GABRIEL. MANNARINO's neighbor, was contacted on 12/18/61,
by SA FORSYTH, and PCI RAY was asked why he ‘had furnished
so little information in recent months. PCI RAY advised:

Prior to the "Federal raid on the MANNARINO gambling joint
in New Kensington. towards the end of summer,” 1961, he
observed some activity around GABRIEL MANNARINO's cottage
near Leechburg. While. there were never any groups of visitors,
except for one family-type outdoor picnic, occasionally _
individuals.would visit the cottage. Also, GABRIEL
MANNARINO was observed to leave the house almost daily at
_ ‘varying hours. Since "the raid," GABRIEL MANNARINO

has developed what amounts almost to a predictable pattern.
He leaves the: cottage on most. days shortly before noon,
always alone, and he returns to stay at about eight o'clock
in the evening. Visitors are extremely rare and never stay
more than a few minutes. PCI has not‘been able to obtain
any information of recognizable pertinence and, therefore,
has not contacted SA FORSYTH. ; ‘ :

on 12/18/61, PCI ANTHONY JOHN WISE, JR., Pittsburgh, Pa.,
employed 4s Manager of the MANNARINO-owned. Ken Tron and
Steel Co., New Kensington, was asked by SA FORSYTH why he
has not been furnishing and pertinent information during
the recent past, and he advised: , -

Even before the "Government raid” in: New Kensington in
August 1961, he was not taken. into the confidence of the
MANNARINOS as regards anything but their scrap metals and
gas well businesses. They put him in charge of these two
ventures because of his education and prior experience.
However, on occasion he overheard. conversations involving
some of their other interests and observed them meet some
of their associates and/or employees. Since the. raid, he
‘has not seen GABRIEL MANNARINO more than three times and
understands that GABRIEL MANNARINO is spending most of his |
time at his cottage near Leechburg, Pa., while SAM MANNARINO
spends the largest portion of each day at his restaurant,
The Bonfire, "located a few miles from Leechburg.” From
what he has been able to observe and learn, SAM MANNARINO
-and GABRIEL MANNARINO see very little of each other or of -
their erstwhile associates. PCI does not feel that he can

robe for information from either, MANNARINO without arousing
heir suspicions, because it has peed ARINC ABLE to observe
and listen but not to ask questions.

3

DocId:32301191 Page 4

 
