Interview: R.E. Webster .5

request and he departed Russia in May of 1962. He flew
from Moscow to Paris to New York. At New York, a.U.S.
Marshall served a subpoena on Webster for an appearance
before the Senate at some future date. Ata later date
(he could not remember the date) Webster did appear before
the Senate in a closed session and answered questions
relative to his defection and his desire to regain U.S.
Citizenship. Webster obtained U.S. Citizenship in 1965.

A short time after his return he was first questioned
at his home in Zelienable, Pa., by agents of the FBI.
He was also debriefed two times by the CIA. The last
debriefing by the CIA was in a Washington Hotel and lasted
approximately a week. CIA's main interest was in Russian
personnel. They had photographs of Russians whom they
wished to know if he talked with. ‘Webster signed a
CIA secrecy oath not to reveal substance of CIA debriefing.
Webster agreed to assist CIA in the future if he was ever
contacted by the KGB. He was nevér, to his knowledge,
contacted.

Digressing to Webster's contact with the U.S.
Embassy in Moscow, Webster stated it was quite a delay
for the U.S. Consul. in Moscow (Snyder) to obtain State
Department approval for him to return to the U.S. as a

Russian Alien.

HW 55923 Doocid:32246422 Page 7
Interview: R.E. Webster 3

he was also provided an apartment for Vera and himself.
(Most Russians have to wait several years to get a
desirable apartment.) They also provided Vera with a good
position in Lenngrade. They also provided Webster

with a one month vacation at a resort on the Black Sea.

At no time did anyone: question Webster relative
to intelligence matters. On one occassion Webster was
asked by a government official why he did not marry Vera.
‘Webster explained that could not as he was already married.
The subject was never again discussed. At no time was he
ever pressured about anything. He was not subjected to
Communist doctrine or asked about his political views.

Webster was not contacted by the KGB. To his
knowledge no officials ever identified themselves as
KGB. ,

There was no reason to be contacted by the KGB.

The government officials that aided Webster in his
defection had his entire story. He possessed no knowledge
of value to K.G.B. His expertise was in the field of
plastic utilization.

Webster requested and received Russian citizenship.
He was not knowledgeable of other defectors. He did not

at that time know the name Oswald.

HW 55923 Docld:32246422 Page 5
Interview: R.E. Webster : 4

Webster decided to return to the U.S. after
learning that his mother had a nervous breakdown
because of his defection. He received this information
via a letter from his father in May 1960. He decided
that his actions were ruining too many people's lives.

He discussed the issue with Vera who did not try to pressure
him to stay even though they had a baby daughter. Webster
stated that Vera understood. Webster made application with
the foreign minister to leave Russia. The application was
denied and he was notified he would have to wait one year

to resubmit his exit visa. He waited one year and again
submitted his request to leave and stated his reasons

for the request. At no time did he misrepresent, to the
Russians, the motives for his actions.

During the year he waited to re-apply, his father
and former employer Mr. Rand assisted Webster on his
effort to return thru the State Department. Webster
contacted the American Embassy during a trip to Moscow
for the purpose of watching a parade in Moscow Square.

He talked to Consul. Snyder. Arrangements were made
with the State Department for Webster to return to the
U.S. (if he was allowed to leave Russia) as a Russian

Allien. The Russian govermnemt approved Webster's second

HW 55323 Doold:32246422 Fage 6
INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE |

ls Identifying Information:

Name Robert E. Webster
Address ,
City/State_ Ellsworth, Maine

Date of Birth 10/23/28

Social Security 207-667-9715

2. Physical Description:
Height
Weight
Ethnic Group

3, ..Personal History:

“a. Present Employment: _
Address

‘KENNEDY

0099i%

‘Date. 3/16/78

Place Holiday Inn
: (office)

‘Telephone 207-667-9715 (h) 207-244-5531
“Mor § .
' Spouse

- Children

Color Eyes . Hair

Special Characteristics °

 

 

 

Telephone

b. Criminal Record
1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:
a. -Relative(s): Name

Address

-b. Area frequented:

 

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

 

 

 

NW 55923 DoolId:32246422 Page 2

 
v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

MW 55523 DBoold: 32246422

JFK Assassination System Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA

180-10074-10480
NUMBERED FILES
009917

Document Information

HSCA
WEBSTER, ROBERT E.

03/16/1978 .
6

RAND CORPORATION
WEBSTER, ROBERT E; INTERVIEW
WEBSTER, ROBERT E.; DEFECTION TO RUSSIA

SUMMARY
Unclassified
3

Redact
10/25/1995

Box 183.

Page 1

10/1/201

 
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Robert E; Webster __ Date 3/16/78 Time
Address oo . : Place Holiday Inn

_Blisworth, Maine

 

Interview: |

‘on 3/16/18. Statt Investigator Leap. interviewed

   
  

 

Robert. EB, Webster. at ‘the Holiday Inn, Ellsworth, Maine

 

. relative ‘to his, defection to Russia. in: guly of 1959,

“his return to: the v.

 

ss. in 1962, and related cnatteré.

* ‘Webster, was working ‘for: the” Rand Corporation

 

“of. Cleveland, Ohio at the ‘tite of, his defection, He
was sent to Moscow by the Rand Corporation. to prepare:
an exhibit for the firm which would be displayed at
the International Trade Fair.

Webster made three trips ta Russia. He defected .
on the third ‘trip, all the necessary arrangements with.
Russian officials were made during ‘his second trip.

Webster’ s defection was-on “his: own’ initidtive
and’ was not related to political ideology. He fell in
love with a Russian girl, an interpreter at “the hotel:

in which he was staying. - Webster decided he wanted to
“remain with vera © cane and made inguiry with

Rusian officials at the International Fair as to whether

   

(Signature)

Harold D. Leap _ ;
(Name):
Date Transcribed ay26/7e _bycs_

. , | ; (Ini

HW 55523 Docid:32246422 Page 3

   
Interview: R.E. Webster 2

it would be possible for him to remain in Russia.

The Fair officials relayed Webster's request
to the proper government officials (could. not remember
names). The decision was made that Webster could
remain with limitations. Webster knew this before he
returned to the U.S. from his second trip.

Webster's first two trips were in preparation
for the Fair. The third trip was to run the Rand Corpo-
ration exhibition at the Fair. The Russian Government
officials encouraged Webster to defect during the fair.
Webster was of the opinion that the motive for the
Russian encouragement was his expertise in the field of
plastics utilization. Webster said that the U.S. was-
ten years ahead of the Russians at that time. The
Russian officials suggested that Webster leave a note
for his American partner to the effect that Webster was
going on a vacation for a few days. In reality Webster
was only moved to another hotel along with his girl friend.
This move was to delay the U.S. a few days in determining.
that Webster had defected.

The Russians decided that Webster should be located

in Leningrad. Webster was given a position in a plastic
research institution and he also worked part time ina

factory. His pay was above normal for other workers.

NW 55923 Doold:32246422 Page 4
