 

_ documents relating to disciplinary problems of certain specifically named
students, violated statutory, constitutional and common-law righis to pri-
, vacy. The Supreme Court refused to determine whether dissemination to
the public would serve the important legislative function of informing the
public concerning matters pending before Congress for the purpose of
_ holding Members of Congress liable, However, it remanded the case to
. the Court of Appeals, in part to undertake just such a review in order to
| determine whether the Public Printer and the superintendent of Documents, ;
who were with out blanket immunity, could be held liable.

9. The discussion: thus far has dedlt only with congressional immunity
"for releasing classified information in Congress, No such immunity exists
.. in the case of disclosures made by congressmen outside of Congress. Thus,.
. In.Long v, Ansel, 69 F.2d 386 (Ct. App., D.C, 1934), affd. 293 U.S. 76
_ (1934), and in McGovern v. Martz, 182 F, Supp. 343 (US Dist. Ct., D.C.

' 1960) it was held that if a Senator or Representative is alleged to have com-
ae | mitted libel by republishing and disseminating remarks made in the Congress,
NS, i such xepublication and dissemination is not within the Speech or Debate
: . privilege even if such privilege would have been applicable to the original
. " publication of the remarks. Again, in Gravel v. United States, 408 U.S. 606

. 1972), and in Doe v. McMillan, 412 U.S, 306 (1973) the court noted that
the Speech or Debate Clause does not protect "a private republication of
documents introduced and made public at a committee hearing, although the
hearing was unquestionably part of the legislative process." ; Or

 

 

 

10, From the above it is apparent that a Member is not privileged to _

circulate CIA documents to his constituents, to the press, or by reading to
a@ meeting or on radio or television. Such action could well make the member
liable for prosecution under the espionage laws, but in any event would
expose him to the same liability for these actions as any other citizen, As
‘a practical matter, however, the prosecution of a Member for unauthorized
disclosure of classified CIA material, or " disciplinary @ action by. Congress .

: itself, is. very unlikely. :

 

bla

 

EDMUND COHEN
" Office of General Counsel

 

 

      

$8075 —DoETE 3298932" ~page-3-—~— Salelied taltateceaeatedadiemniaranetemmeneemmetemneee eer ee

  
 

. OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 . 5010-106 ®
MAY 1962 EDITION ¥
& eh Sy GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
° . UNITED STATES A, ee

Memorandum

 

Comp. Byst. ——
Ext. Affairs

 

 

 

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams DATE: May 2, 1975 Gen
, Ident.
\ . Ty Inspection
FROM : Legal Couns iD moe \6 ATHED trrell

 

- eer CO a eS
é *C> psi ee Sp a-h Plon- eve
-{ SUBJECT: ({ SENSTUDY 75 . wane “0 Sees Inve ——
if \ Eee ae see br Tolephons Rao

Director Sec'y —_
The April 29, 1975, Congressional Record - Senate,
pages S 7054 through and including S 7056, sets forth rules
- and procedures for the captioned Committee. The rules cover
such topics as the convening of meetings, meeting procedures,
news media coverage, investigations, subpoenas, procedures
related to the taking of testimony, procedures for handling
classified or sensitive material, preparation for committee
meetings, staff, and reporting of measures or recommendations.

The key sections of these rules are subpoenas, investi-
gations, and procedures related to taking of testimony.

Concerning the issue of subpoenas, subpoenas may be
issued by the Chairman or any other member designated by him
with the consultation of the Vice Chairman.

Procedures relating to the taking of testimony provide
that testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. It
? also proviessehat a witness may be accompanied by counsel. | -
Witnesses may also request that there be no news media coverage”
of their testimony. Witnesses will also be given the opportunity
of furnishing a statement prior to, and/or at the conclusion of
his or her testimony. With regard to inspection and correction
of testimony, witnesses will be allowed a reasonable opportunity
to inspect their testimony, and corrections are permissible, but
must be made in writing within five days of the availability of
ut the transcript containing their testimony. Names of witnesses
ae cannot be made public prior to their testimony unless authorized
by the Chairman.

Contempt procedures as set forth, require that after
notice to all members of the Committee, and the affected person
has had the opportunity to state in writing C: in 2 Tes a "

Enclosure REC-10g
-l.- Mr. Adams \ i) —
1 - Mr. Wannall ENGEOSURE

1 - Mr. Mintz 6 MAY 20 1975
1 - Mr. Hotis

. i - Mr. Daly —e_w
1 - Mr. Cregar

 

 

oe GWG
\ACONTINUED - OVER) A am
sty a

oh MAY, 27. 1908 i

32989532 Page 10
 

 

 

ce . on :
we hs . . :
‘ : ‘ sak, Lo

questioning elsewhere than in the Senate, with respect to the events occur-
‘ring at the Subcommittee hearing at which the Pentagon Papers were intro-
duced into the public record, The court stated: ".,./T/o us this claim is
incontrovertible," (Atp, 615. > -_ an

oe | 6, The court further noted that: |

The Speech or Debate Clause was designated to assure
“a co-equal branch of the government wide freedom of
“. speech, debate, and deliberation without intimidation
or threats from the Executive Branch. It thus protects
“Members against prosecutions that directly impinge
* upon or threaten the legislative process. We have no
‘doubt that Senator Gravel may not be made to answer-~
either in terms of questions or in terms of defending
‘ himself from prosecution-~for the events that occurred
at the subcommittee meeting. (Atp, 616. a.

 

 

: 2, ‘From the above, together with the positive phrasing o of ‘Article 1,
- 86 of the Constitution, it would appear that any Member may make any state-
; .° ment he desires on the floor of the Congress or.in one of its committees. Such
PO _- | statement shall be absolutely privileged, notwithstanding that it was based
pe on information secured from classified Central Intelligence Agency material
either furnished the Member in confidence or containing any restrictive
‘notice as to use or dissemination. This privilege would operate if the Member
‘were to read the information verbatim into the record on the floor or into
the record of hearings before a congressional committee.’ It would still be
privileged when it appeared, verbatim, in the Congressional Record or in
' the published hearings of a congressional committee, The only sanction,
‘apart from the individual conscience and sense of responsibility of the Member,
"would have to come from Congress itself, which has the power to discipline
any Representative or Senator who improperly disclosed classified information.

 

. . 8 One additional wrinkle might be noted, Although Congressmen’
would be immune from liability for introducing classified information into
a committee report and immune from liability for ordering it printed and
‘disseminated to the public at large, the Public Printer and the Superintendent
of Documents may not be immune from suit for printing and disseminating
such reports to the public, The court examined this question in Doe v.
McMillan, 412 U.S, 306(1973), a case in which petitioners claimed that a
report issued by the House Committee on the District of Columbia, containing

 

  

er
“E5075 Doctd: 33985532. Bage 8 : TT : : SAD |

 

 
 

 

3, A long line of Supreme Court cases, beginning with Kilbourn v.
Fhompson, 103 U.S. 168 (9D), has held that the privilege or immunity
:¥elating to speech or debate should be given a broad and liberal construc~

Hen. In Kilbourn the court stated:

’ It would be a narrow view of the Constitutional provision
' to limit it to words spoken in debate. The reason of the
rule is as forcible in its application to written reports
“presented in that body by its committees, to resolutions
‘offered, which, though in writing, must be reproduced
“in speech, and to the act of voting,... In short, to things
generally done in a session of the House by one of its
members in relation to the business before it. (At P . 204,) .
Lo “a, The court, moreover, has resisted arguments that an unworthy
i. -* purpose should destroy the privilege. In Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U.S.
” "|" 367 the court reaffirmed its earlier holding in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch
87 (810), stating: :

: ..-that it was not consonant with our scheme of govern-
or 9% ment for a court to inquire into the motives of legislators,
Toe . has remained unquestioned, (Ate Pp. 377. >

 

. - Phe distance to which the court was willing to go to uphold this principle :
" wvas seen in United States v. Johnson, 383 U.S. 169 (1966). In that case
‘a former Congressman wa was convicted for conspiracy to defraud the U.S.,

in part on evidence that, in pursuance of a conspiracy designed to give

: ‘assistance to certain savings and loan associations which had been indicted

- on mail fraud charges, he was paid to give a speech on the floor of the House.
Phe Supreme Court granted a new trial holding that a prosecution which
draws in question. the legislative acts of the defendant member of Congress

-er his motives for performing them "necessarily contravenes the Speech or |
Debate Clause," (At Pp. 185. >... . an er

 

   

5. The court addressed the i issue of classified information : in Gravel ve
United States, 408 U.S. 606 (1972), a case which arose when Senator Gravel,
Ghairman of the Subcommittee on Buildings and Grounds of the Senate Public’

- Works Committee, convened a night meeting of the Subcommittee and there
read extensively from a copy of the Pentagon Papers which bore a Defense
security classification of Top Secret - Sensitive, He then placed the entire
4% volumes of the study in the public record. Senator Gravel claimed that

- Article I, section 6 protected him from criminal or civil liability and from

 

 

 

 

GRE S5075—“pobkd:32989599-—-Pages Ps te
 

 

1h 1 March 1975

  

FFODE/L
onokonnen

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel

SUBJECT — : : Authority of Congress to Release Classified Data .

1, Ihave found no express authority for Congress to publicly release
- information classified by the executive branch pursuant to an Executive
‘order issued by the President. Moreover, on a number of occasions Congress _
‘| has mandated that matters pertaining to national defense or foreign policy
be kept secret, . a :

, ~Congress has made it a crime for | one lawfully having possession,
“access or control of documents relating to national defense or infor-
mation relating to the national defense which the possessor has

reason to believe could be used to the injury of the United States

. ox to the advantage of any foreign nation to communicate, deliver,

- or transmit same to any person not entitled to receive it. 18
ULS.CA, 793(d). so

  

~-Congress has made it a crime to disclose to an unauthorized per-
son or publish any classified information obtained by the processes
"of communications intelligence. 18 U.S.C “A. 798(a). :
oy a Congiess has made it a crime to photograph or sketch vital military
or naval installations or equipment requiring protection against gen-
eral dissemination of information. 18 U.S.C.A. 795. Itis also a”
. crime to publish or disseminate photographs, maps, or drawings of .
such defense installations without first obtaining permission of the-
7 Sommanding officer or higher authority. 18 Ue S.C, A. 090.

 

f

. --Congress, in order to prevent public disclosure of certain activities,
has given various officials the power to keep confidential certain funds
_ expended for national security or foreign relations purposes. Such
_ authority is given, for example, to the President (22 U.S.C.A, 2364),
to the Secretary of State (31 U.S.C.A. 167), and to the Director of
” Central Intelligence (50 U,S.C.A, 4033). :

 

| 55075 ~Docld:32989532....Rage-45.

 
 

cae ars . ° . . .
oe t . q . se . . fo v8
B : rata ve

--Congress has provided that meetings of the Senate Committee on
the Budget may be closed to the public if it is determined by a record
vote of a majority of the members that the matter to be discussed

+ «Will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in the
. '. interest of national defense or the confidential conduct of
. ° the foreign relations of the United States. 2U.S.C.A,
*  190a-3, : ann

   

~-Congress, after requiring that the Secretary of State transmit forth- _

with to the Congress the text of any international agreement, other

than a treaty, to which the United States‘is a party, goes on to Pro-
- vide that . : : .

“ vany such agreement the immediate public disclosure
of which would, in the opinion of the President, be prej-
‘udicial to the national security of the United States shall
not be so transmitted to the Congress but shall be trans-
mitted to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives under an appropriate injunction of secrecy to
mo. | be removed only upon due notice from the President.
ee /1U.S.C,A, lab, : : :

  

7 --Finally, Congress, in enacting the F veedom of Inforination Act,
~ expressly exempted from disclosuré matters which are

 

ar “specifically authorized under criteria established
~ by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest
. Of national defense or foreign policy. 5 U. s. c “A.
o 552¢b) ).

    

2. Despite this apparent lack of authority to release classified data
and the existence of the above-mentioned statutes, Congress is constitutionally
immunized, at least in part, against any consequences flowing from release
and disclosure of classified information. Article I, $ 6 of the Constitution
states in respect to Senators and Representatives that:
0 a . for any Speech or Debate in ‘either House, they shall
not be questioned in any other Place. :

cA

 

        

55075 DocId:32989532 Page 6°
 

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 é 5010-106 $ .
MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. :REGNNO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ° Assoc. Dir. —__

 

 

 

 

1- Mr. J. B, Adams © Dep. AD Adm, —
\ Memorandum L = Mr. J. Al Mintz 0 sre"
vs Admin,
. . . the Comp, Syst. __
| sro MR. W. R. WANNALL jy” be pare: April 24, 1975 © Ext Afore —
Gen. Inv.
if 1-Mr., J.B, Hotis |
PROM MR. W. of can L- Mr. W.R, Wannall = (faye
Pe ~ 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar Laboratory
~ Plan. & Eval.
sunject: SENSTUDY 75 SEK Act 6 (1) (8) 0 may
ee ee a,

 

 

Enclosure 44a MAY 15 1975 )
62-116395 | 4 6 ee
ae pemrenesan Nasneetes
WOC :ekw “(6) \ 5 <
Fhe Ct Mr rag Goes not
Je rinblen Salve tas pesole, Hes HHO,
fae haan jt regankes no Sarin Dents s
; owt
Lane SA |

55075

 

Trainin
hehe
This memorandum reports the receipt of a legal / Dene seen
memorandum prepared by] === =———s—s—sYCE ice OF the General
Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency, entitled "Authority of
Congress to Release Classified Data." Copies of this legal |},
memorandum have been furnished to Mr. Anthonin Scalia, Assistant
Attorney General, and Mr. James A, Wilderotter, Associate Counsel
to the President,

   

Memorandum Cregar to W. R. Wannall dated 4/14/75 discussed
an article contained in the 4/10/75 edition of "The Washington Post"
wherein Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the Senate Select
Committee, stated he reserved the right to make public any documents
the Committee received, This memorandum also noted that Mr. James
Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President, advised that
The White House was preparing a letter to Senator Church recognizing
that Congress can, at its discretion, declassify material it
receives, but strongly urging that such declassification action
not be taken unilaterally by the Senate Select Committee without
approval of the agency originating the information. Pa

As an aid to the preparation of such a letter, the
Office of CIA's General Counsel has prepared a paper entithed
"Authority of Congress to Release Classified Data." Copy attached.
It was made available to all members of the Ad Hoc Coordinating |
Group for Congressional Review of the Intelligence Committee for
information and any comments tecipients desired t &OQ

make... -,
ACTION: For information. Agha b 2 IE 345 |

 

 

Docld: 32969532 Page 2

 

 
 

 

~Peleased under the John
iF. Kennedy
—_ FP fssassination Records

ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).
ase#:NW S5075 Date:

b4—-12-2013

File #:

 

 

ba2—- W603

 

 

l0%4 Titete (05

 

HW 55075 DocId:32989532 Page 1

 

 
 

 

     

  

‘ . DIRE! fs D INCE .
yo, DIRECTOR 2Qrorn. INTELLIGENCE Ad Hoe Staff

‘

 

17 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Members of the USIB
Ad Hoc Coordinating
Group

This is being furnished you at
Dr. Clarke's request,

Harriett D. Mowitt ©
Executive Secretary

 

Attachment

ba 63 gy = {2

Hedges

 

 

HW 55075 DoclId:32989532 Page 3

 
 

 

  
     
 
   
 
 
 
    
    

MEMORANDUM FOR: "Antonin @ lia, Esq.
. . || Assistant™ ttorney General
, Office of Legal Counsel
‘Attached is a hurriedly done legal memorandum
entitled “Authority of Congress to Release -
Classified Data." I would welcome your comments
on this so that a finished document could be made
gengies concerned

    

tor REPLACES FORM 10-101
e a WHICH MAY BE USED.

   
 
 

  
   
 
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
   

Ri ames A, Wilderotter, Esq. . :
._ Associate Counsel to the

  

MENORANDUN "FOR:

“Attached is a hurriedly done legal
‘memorandum entitled "Authority of ;
Congress to Release Classified Data."
I would welcome your comments on

“: this so that a finished document

* could be made available F

agencies concerned.. ard

  

S|. Warner -
.. ‘General Counsel
-Centra Intelligence © Agency

 
 

     

  

No. REPLACES FORM 10-101

54 Ri WHICH MAY BE USED. oan .
‘t os

 
