 

 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller

Re:

I Sensitive Coverage for the White House
| COVE ~- Espionage

 

daily to him and to Mr. John D. Ehrlichman at the White House. Upon
Mr. Hoover's approval, Mr. Felt instructed you to obtain the coverage
promptly and to exercise the same security precautions as before.

t

.- In reviewing logs of conversations of iy, .

in conversation with kept referring to a woman named
told that (BP should not have
submitted to a polygraph examination and should get a lawyer to protect
shis rights. David Young at the White House subsequently advised that the
referred to was probably f , a fairly
high-ranking State Department official. Our files revealed that one

had served in severai U.*S. Embassies ubruad

and at one time was of interest to the Czechoslovakian Intelligence Service,
which was attempting to ascertain where was residing in Virginia.
David Young requested that coverage be placed on

and he indicated that the request came from John. D. Ehrlichman with the
concurrence of the Attorney General. Coverage on{ was instituted .
yia72. (¢

 
  
   
  
 

 

   

Coverage of in Portland, Oregon, was productive in
that it established that the were still in contact with Jack Anderson,
although the conversations were innocuous in nature. In a conversation
between Mr. and her daughter in Portland, she revealed that one ©
of the first things did upon arrival in Portland was to call Jack
Anderson and let him know where he was. (¢

 
  
 

was then transferred permanently to the Naval Reserve.
“Training Center at Salem, Oregon, and David Young requested that we
institute electronic surveillance (wiretap) coverage of PP both at his
place of employment and his residence. Young assured us that the Attorney
General concurred. In order to effect coverage at the Naval Reserve Training
' Center, it was necessary to place coverage on three separate lines going
into the Naval Reserve Training Center. However, no calls were monitored’

 

-5- _ CONTINUED ~ OVER

 

 

| MW P5252. .Dogldedeseees2. Page & ~ - -

 
 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller
iy Re: |
7 Sensitive Coverage for the White House

COVE ~ Espionage

 

which were obviously not directed to or from aD. Even so, a large

volume of traffic was handled. Coverage was instituted. on the Naval

Reserve Training Center lines 2/4/72, although no calls were monitored

until opening of business on 2/7/72 — was' scheduled to report

for duty. Coverage was instituted on the residence: cht‘ SS :
on 2/15/72. CC) ~

: On 2/17/72, David Young advised that coverage of =
ee: 2nd GE should be removed because of lack of
productivity, but that the coverage maintained at both Portland and Salem,
Oregon, be continued. Ac rdingly, the coverage on a ce
was removed on 2/17/72. ons

Subsequently, at the request of David Young at the White
House, coverage on the Naval Reserve Training Center in Salem, Oregon,
and on SOURED. GAN s stepfather in Portland, Oregon,
_ was discontinued 4/11/72. The coverage on ae s residence continued,
" however. The coverage on SQM was finally discontinued on 6/20/72,
’ following the Supreme Court decision in the Keith case. It was not
discontinued on 6/19/72, as others falling under the Keith yule had been,
” since we were awaiting a decision from the White House. é

Although we felt at the time that thea case fell within |
the meaning of the Keith rule, and so stated to the White House at the time,
a reexamination of the facts surrounding the coverage relating to leaks such
as those involved in the W coverage has resulted in a conclusion that
this coverage would not have been affected by the Keith decision, inasmuch -
as such coverage was in furtherance of efforts by the President to protect
‘national security information, which function was excepted in the Keith
- decision. (¢

It is to be noted that in connection with wiretaps placed in

this instance, no written authority was ever obtained from the Attorney General.
The initial request came from the Attorney General in personal instructions

-6- CONTINUED - OVER -

 

 

| HW 56494... DoeIds 52999632 Page 10,

 
| MW BS29P Pockd: 3e369632- Page Oo =

 

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller
Re:

Sensitive Coverage for the White House
COVE - Espionage

|

/ 8

! _
ij

°

    
   

The coverage oni

QMBwas very close toa

discussed the leak of information with

resulted in determination that.
, and that he freely
It was determined

from Bureau files that was probably identical to

who had been assigned to the Defense Attache's
Office in New Dehli, India, and had been contacted by Soviet Attache,
Valentin I. Iyintsev, 7/26/68. This information was reported to the
White House and the Attorney General. (Ce.
1
On 1/4/72, the Attorney General called Mr. Felt and said
that the matter involving AID would be coming to a head in the next
two or three days and that ne (Mir. Matchel!) feit that the following 48
hours would be particularly ‘critical. He called attention to the fact that
had been in extensive conversations with ;
“a: offered advice to and had pumped him for
information. Among other things suggested thar ie go to
the American Civil Liberties Union to obtain a lawyer. The Attorney General

requested that a telephone surveillance of GiP- instituted as quickly

as possible on his residence. Dissemination was to be handled the same,

’ on a strict need-to-know basis. After clearing with Mr. Hoover, Mr. Felt

instructed you to take the necessary steps to obtain this coverage promptly .

and to exercise the same security in effect with C @) ot
On 1/11/72, the Attorney General called Mr. Felt with

further reference to the matter of the leak of confidential White-House

memoranda to columnist Jack Anderson. Mr. Mitchell said that this

matter was far from being resolved and indications were then that other ~

persons may be involved. He said that was still a prime suspect.

was presently en route to his new duty station at Portland, Oregon,

d he would be staying temporarily with his stepfather, eanain. |

The Attorney General requested that a telephone surveillance . {

at his temporary location at the Qe home be instituted as

quickly as possible. He requested that results be promptly furnished

  
 
 
  
 

-4- CONTINUED - OVER

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

. HW SatSic*

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller
Re:

Sensitive Coverage for the White House
COVE - Espionage

4
‘

summaries prepared for the Attorney General should be blind and no
tickler copies, should be made. One yellow copy was to be made for
personal retention of Mr. Felt under maximum security in his office.
These instructions were modified shortly thereafter so that the original .

. blind memorandum was sent to the White House in a sealed envelope

addressed to "Honorable John D. Ehrlichman - Eyes Only." A copy was

prepared for the Attorney General, and a yellow file copy for Mr. Felt's

retention. :

Only one copy of the logs were prepared by WFO and these
were delivered on a daily basis in a sealed envelope to you marked in

* such a manner that it wouid ve upened oniy by you. No record was -
maintained of the installation by WFO. Only the SAC, Robert Kunkel,
and Coordinating Security Supervisor, Courtland J. Jones, were fully
knowledgeable in WFO concerning the coverage. I was the only one in
the Intelligence Division besides yourself who knew of the coverage. I
reviewed the logs and prepared the summaries, and I always hand-
carried them to Mr. Felt, the Director's. Office, the Attorney General's
“Office and handed the sealed envelope over to the Liaison Agent for
delivery to the White House. On two or three occasions, I personally
delivered the sealed envelopes to the White House and turned them over
to. David Young, who was on Mr. Ehrlichman's staff. As a matter of
record, these envelopes were delivered to Young's office by the Liaison .
Agent. We know for a fact that Young was reviewing the summaries and
he personally informed us that he furnished the summaries to Ehrlichman.

Electronic surveillance coverage was instituted on
residence on 12/23/71. In line with the policy which was in effect. at

_ the time, a leased line letter was prepared for delivery to the C ©)

Telephone Company, and this letter was signed by Mr. Hoover.

It was quickly determined that was in fact in touch

with Jack Anderson. On 12/23/71, carton the Anderson
residence to turn down a Christmas day dinner invitation.
wife, on 12/24/71 told an acquaintance that they were not going
out to where they had been invited; that this was the main problem j
why they /(the =» got into trouble. CC) _ 7 K

/\ fos wife!
~ 3 -

 
 

WZ

Doold: 32989632 .Page 7. ~ -

 

 

 
7

 

 

 

 

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10,
MAG 1962 "O.TION
* OSA GEN, MEG, HO. a7

UNITED STATES*GOVERNMENT

- Memorandum

5010106

”

,v Mr. E.S. Miller

ith Ww » =

T.

1-Mr.E. 8. Miller
1- Mr. T. J. Smith

DATE: 6/14/73

 

6 Duker
Mr. Callahan
Mr. Cleveland __. sj
Mr. Conrad — i
Mr. Gebhardt

Mr. Jenkins fs |
Mr. Marshall ae
Gill, BS

 

 

EN, Ir. Soyars 2
Mr. Thompson

    
 

CZ

Mr. Barnes

A Mr. Bowers

, Vn

he

.

‘Mr. Conmy

COVE - ESPIONAGE Mee Conm

. 7 Mrs. Hogan
Although completely unrelated in any way to prior requests
of the White House for electronic surveillance coverage of White House
aides and newsmen from 1969 - 1971 in connection with leaks of highly —
classified national security.infopmation, captioned matter also related to
electronic surveillance coverage of individuals at the specific request of
thé White House. Because”of the very sensitive nature of the matter, it is
being given a code word "COVE + Espionage" and all records and documents
relating to the matter will be kept in the Associate Director's Office with
access limited to those persuus wit Lave received pricr individual approval
from the Director, Associate Director or the Assistant Director in charge of

=

Ae

{NITE

—_a

  
    

i President and Dr. Henry A. Kissinger and between Dr. Kissinger, and JUN 18 1972
other high officials at the White House and the State Department. ‘C 7) Ho
on \ i

Mitchell said they believed was the leak to Anderson
of this information. He explained that both and Anderson are ;
4 ’ TS

members of the same church (Mormon) and that their respective wives
TJS: glwis)
(3)

 

CONTINUED - OVER

a
&7 Jun

| BOSSY 342 noon! 32989632 | Page ‘5

    
  

8 19749

 

 

 

° 4
j
|

 

 

Mr. Herington

 

 

Mr. Eardley ___

 

= the Intelligence Division. Although index cards will be maintained in the
Vat general indices of the Bureau, and index cards will be filed in the Special
ror Electronic Surveillance indices, no abstracts will be prepared except in
Q tors correspondence to and from the field and memoranda dated from this date
ry is _forward. ¢)
<< ,
RY on : The genesis of this matter is as follows: On 12/22/71, the
S a Attorney General, John N. Mitchell, personally contacted Mr. W. Mark Felt,
> © <{S who was then the Deputy Associate Director, and instructed him to ~
[za] Bo institute, after clegring with Mr. Hoover, a telephone surveillance of MCT-34
ara 7 a Navy Yeoman ist Class ‘REE SS to the Joint |
izxy-'5\ Chiefs of Staff. Mr. Mitchell said that this instruction’ directly rom 75488 ;
Y Su President Nixon. He called attention to the JackiAnderson column of. 4 id }
a a 12/14/71, wherein disclosures, were made of conversations between the = °""™
oD

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller ‘ _ an
a Re: ‘ mee ‘
; Sensitive Coverage for the White House
COVE ~ Espionage

 

. ay . *
_ were closely associated in church work. @§4MBMPwas responsible for

frequent contact with the White House and the National Security Council.

It was later determined that @j§MMPPnad been brought to Washington by

Admiral Moorer, and he was in a position io be privy and have access to

the type of data being leaked. He had previously worked for Admiral Moorer. (2)
_ It was also subsequently learned unofficially that Qi had
already been confronted by Navy investigators concerning the leaks and
had, as a matter of fact, already been given polygraph tests concerning .
the leaks and his association with Jack Anderson. The FBI was-not
requested to conduct any investigation of the leaks; only to place electronic
coverage on (2 . : . ‘ .

. Mr. Mitchell told Mr. Felt that the President was gravely
concerned over this matter and was anxious to ascertain the full extent
of the security breach. He said that no prosécution was contemplated.
_ ‘Mr. Mitchell inquired as to whether Mr. Felt believed physical surveil-
,lance might be productive and Mr. Felt replied that it might be productive,
‘ but also might be very dangerous because we] became aware of the
* game and furnished this information to Jack Anderson even more damaging
columns could result. Mr. Mitchell agreed. €¢ ,

 

The Attorney General requested to be advised on a day-to- |

day basis of developments in this case. Mr. Felt told Mr. Mitchell that,
: reports would be made directly to him and that the matter would be
is handled on a strict "need-to-know" basis in the Bureau.

After clearing with Mr. Hoover, Mr. Felt instructed you to
personally contact the SAC, WFO, and instruct that the coverage be ;
instituted as quickly as possible. You were also told to instruct the SAC,
WFO, that the number of individuals having access to this matter be

- limited on a strict "need-to-know" basis. Mr. Felt instructed that

-2- _ CUNLINLED ~ OVER

   

 

 

 

 

| MWissiSi" Dold: 32989632 Page 6 - = : wee me

 
 

4991 (Rev. 11-13-76)

2 He SY
| BULKY “abiosune ”
BIN #1 ee
ROOM 1B-873

HQ - HEADQUARTERS BOX 4658

lass / Case # Sub Vol. Serial #

1 sHo062 116395

21131113057

Cin

 

 

HW 55131 Doecld:32985632 Page 2

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

32989632 Page 3

 

131i Docid

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Ml

in

ll

o
2113/100965

hl

ll
32589632 Page 4

oe
ui
E
2
ii
oO
a
fa)
a
fo]
Oo
i
ow
3
5
2
ii
o
7

i

   

HEADQUARTERS
Sul

FBI
Class / Case #

HQ
0082 116395
HW 55131 Docid

 

 
