 

 

t . :
OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10 . 5010-106

-

 

 

ee ee N an nog :
“ “UNITED STATES GOweRNMENT \ ‘ane

DeLoact !

Memorandum co !

 

 

7 Cogra
| uv
le :
ro . Mr. seinome UN paTE: January 7, 1965 oa
. / ; Tave i
: Trotter
; : Tele, How
te OM: Mr. Gale . Holmes
‘ ¥ Gandy

SUBJECT: Th COSA NOSTRA Se, Z

 

 

 

 

t
we

— In connection with our intensive investigation regarding .
internal strife at La Cosa Nostra's top level, which has resulted |
in the expulsion of Joseph Bonanno from the "commission," a
Los Angeles top echelon criminal informant, who is the brother
of one. of Bonanno’s closest confidants, has reported that Bonanno
has appealed to the parent organization in Sicily regarding

., "commission" action taken against his group. This informant
'{stated, that his brother told him that the Mafia in Sicily controlled
the United. States counterpart until 1930, when the United States
branch was” granted self-governing rights.

 

“Concerning international aspects of La Cosa Nostra, we
have previously » developed interesting information, particularly
through our highly sensitive coverage of Philadelphia. "commission"
member Angelo Bruno, regarding this organization's counterpart in.
Italy. This source has revealed that the Italian organization is
headed bya "commission," and is organized by individual "family"
groups; with "boss," "ynderboss ," . etc., in a manner similar to the
table of. organization. of this country's La Cosa Nostra, which ‘has
itsv origin in Sicily, The above source also revealed that the
United States and Italian brother organizations operate: independently
in, thatSthe leadership of. one does not impose any mandatory ‘control
onithat<of the other, It was indicated that a member of the
organization from one country is not automatically accepted as
such in the other country, and such an individual must‘ again prove
himself to be accepted: as a member should he move from one: country.
to another: EB E Weeaibe

gen IE ATA
The manner in which accepted protocol between these ; os
groups actually functions is well exemp tified by Angelo Bruno's
visit to Sicily during the past| few) yearssttauring which he met .
with one Calogero Sinatra, whom: escribed as recently having

been elevated to the position SE: oss'"'Of a "borgata" (family) in

  
  
 

   

 
  
 

Sicily. While in Sicily, Bruno ‘aiso, met: with Joseph Ida, who had.
preceded Bruno as "boss" of The ePHE sas Tphie La Cosa Nostra - ~“family ,"
wh 1g US Or Qo
1 - Mr, Belmont. Po 4
1 = Mrs Gal a vH | 22 — REC: 39°
1 = Mr. Stanley. . |
1 - Mre lcAndrefi is I — BAL ge ge JAN DA1965
1 - Mr. Ener ME 2 , . 7
ir PY ETADIMEC LOB ci oxi

 

 

 

 

BM 5 is

Docld:32576368 Page 1
