 

MEMO - 23/20/77

TO: :. - Tafenbaum

 

; FROM: Fonzi

‘Re:. Interview with Rolando Otero

‘I spoke. with Rolando Otero on March 16, 1977, at the Okaloosa
County Jail,.near Eglin Air Force Base, Fort Walton Beach, Florida.
-T-was with- his” attorney, Bob Rosenblatt of the Miami Public
‘Defender's Office, who had earlier contacted our office about
Otero's wanting to talk with us about the Kennedy assassination.
Otero was scheduled to be Sentenced the following day and both
he and his attorney expected a long term, perhaps 10 years.
_ They. were convinced the judge had been swayed-by the FBI and
“ was prejudiced against Otero. . Otero had been convicted on-:one.
‘of nine charges involving the- bombing of public buildings in
-the’ Miami’ area. Earlier.last year ‘he had been found innocent
of the very same charges in a Federal court, so when the State
brought the same:charges against him, Otero and his attorney
claim, the FBI went all out to get him convicted in order. to
al '¢over its embarrassment of his earlier acquital. The Federal
judge-in the -case;-District-Judge-Norman -Roettger,--specifically.. -.
. commented before the verdict in Otero's first trial that the
_ Government's case was "weak.'"' There is a very strong case to
be made for Otero's innocence, which is relevant to his now.
feeling that he has suffered the last straw in the American
system of justice,: The FBI's case against him was originally
_ made by their veteran informant, Riccardo Morales, a CIA contract
agent now working for the Venezuelan. security police. ‘Otero believes
Merales: set the bombs he is charged for and, in fact, may be
a Castro double agent. Otero: admits he is a terrorist bomber who
has devoted his life to fighting Castro and communism, but claims
. he would never plant bombs within the United States, which is
exactly, he says, why Morales would want hims out of the way.

 

All of the “above is relevant to why Otero wanted to speak with us.
- At this point, he said, he has nothing to lose. .He asked for °.
nothing for himself in return for the information he gave. And,
in fact, his. evaluation of his situation seemed to be verified

on the day after I spoke with him when the Okaloosa. County Circuit
“Court Judge Clyde Wells sentenced him to 40 years. in prison.

The day after that, Otero took an overdose of tranquilizers in

an attempt to commit suicide. He was in critical condition for
two days but this morning seemed to be recovering. -

According to Otero himself, ‘his ‘knowledge of the Kennedy assassination
“is. based on two factors: Second-hand information and his long
association with and knowledge of the tactics and procedures of.
CIA operations. (Although his opinions are strong, Otero was
anxious: that we do not evaluate too highly the quality of the
. information he. provided, since it is not first hand.) Otero's

involvement with the CIA goes: back to when he was 18 and a member :
56829 1232262490 Page 2. : . awe

 

 

 

 
 

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :

_ DATE OF LASTREVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

 

v9.1
HW 56829 DocId: 32262490

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10108-10059

NUMBERED FILES.

015107 (FOLDER 1 OF 4) .

Document Information

HSCA
FONZI, GAETON.

INTERVIEW WITH ROLANDO OTERO.

03/20/1977
3

CIA, ADMINISTRATION.

OTERO, ROLANDO; INTERVIEW.
LEADS & INFORMATION.

FBI.

MEMORANDUM.
Unclassified
Consulted
Withhold
06/24/1993

Box 297. FBI tabbed 297-1.

Page 1

 

Date: 10/13/20

Released under the John
. Kennedy
Assassination Records
ollection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note}.
ases:NU 56629 Date:
4-13-2018

 
mp2 1977

 

of ‘Brigade 2506 that was captured at the Bay of Pigs. He
spent.18 months in a Cuban ‘jail and since his release in
December of 1962 was involved in a series of anti-Castro .
operations. in the Caribbean “and Latin America, including
an aborted assassination attempt on Castro in Venezuela
in 1975. He appears to have always been a lower-level,

. front-line operator and so‘his direct knowledge of the
Strategic directors of most of his operations is limited.

Even : in reviewing the conversation with Otero, it is difficult
to filter out the specific details’ from the general analysis
‘he provides. “of numerous. aspects of the Kennedy assassination. —
‘He insists, ‘first. of all,:that.any involvement of the Mafia _
with it is, in his word, bullshit,” deliberate misinformation
planted by the CIA to throw. off a legitimate investigation...

- He’ feels the Mafia, angle was first injected at.the time of
Garrison's” investigation when the. Agency’ decided. that: it was

-a way of short-circuiting his efforts. It has since, says

' Otero, further developed the misinformation.scenario.. The.
attempts against. Castro's. life involving: the:CIA and the.

Mafia were, says Otero, very lightly: considered; never- ‘got
beyond the conversational stage, if that, but: ‘arennow being.
advanced. as having been:of serious: significance. ‘He feels:
that any attempt’ to. lay thesblame for the Kennedy assassination
on Castro is part of the ploy to throw the investigation off
‘the true track.

Oswald, says Otero, was sent’ to Russia as a CIA agent and that
the decision to kill Kennedy: was made before his return to the
United States. He says he has no specific knowledge but he
figures, from his general knowledge of CIA operations and from
what he has heard about it over the years, that there were
between 30 and 35 CIA agents in Dallas on the day Kennedy was
killed, including the actual hit team. He figures there were
at least three on the hit team, at least one in front and one
in. the rear of Kennedy.

' Otero says he heard that most of the final planning and ‘coordination
took ‘place at meetings held in the Dallas YMCA building...

Otero says he also heard that at least three unsolved murders of |
‘Cubans in Miami over the last several years were connected with
~ the Kennedy _ assassination. He doesn't know the men killed but

gave me the locations, which I'11 have to check-out. This, he

emphasizes, is not hard information. -_ .

These are the people Otero says were involved in the Kerinedy

assassination: Howard Hunt, Bernardo Torres, Norman Diaz,

Orlando Urra, Nildo Acevedo. Otero says he was told by a

source that Torres worked with Oswald and was posing as a

‘photographer on Dealey Plaza on November 22nd, He says he

does not know how directly involved the others were, although he

says he does know there were a few recent attempts on Diaz's life.

wal follow up. I'll also send separately copies of notes Otero made
56829 _Docid: 232262490 _Page 3. . ee

 

 

 

 

 
  

‘before and diring our interview. The interview was taped but

>». because Otero .thought there was a possibility that the room

“in which we were was bugged, he often gave me vocally contrary
canswers to questions while indicating on paper the real

- answers.

 

 

wd 56029 Docld:32262490 Page 4

Otero has been transferred to another jail since his .- — -”
sentencing and suicide attempt. - -Since it's closer to Miami, -
this will make it a bit easier for me to re-contact him

for additional information.

 

 

     

 
 

Mae 2 2 ay

 

 
