James Robert Todd Interview

Page 7. ,

extremely friendly with police officers. On the other hand,
Todd said he and his friends wanted nothing to do with police
officers and stayed as.far away from them as possible. Todd
could not conceive of Ruby being associated with anyone in-
volved in any criminal organization with him (Ruby) being so
closely associated with the police department. The fear was
always there that Ruby could be a police informant, so stated
Todd.

Todd answered the questions rather freely and we were never
cautioned by his attorney, Jerry Biesel, as to the type of
questions being asked. The interview ended with Todd suggest-
ing, if needed, we can again call him and he would be willing

to speak to us again.

HW 55923 Boeold:323261315 Page 9
 

 

 

|
|

 

 

 

 

   

  

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

aw. 55923 Doolid: 32261315. Page i0

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

 

Sree

“it . Se
if
. |
Ks a we
: FRR STA OF TRAS So, oe
" PEPARVMENT OF PUBLIC SANE TY
ARTE!
wag 2 o Gamconpy oe ‘ ro rcoond, meluding tho wat ravatiy b pea a ay
aa ot Picnabsatet © Roswids CORED Fal BURIEOT ey :
. Hg Bs
, - : Uc
L a Gan dat A
ve ee G30N3 . ‘Cama teens ont
scence ecm oe see oer oy ia
MULT : NAMED ° { v TAGE
Sen eee ee ee eer ee
ae Evio RB! FErIS Robart Ueda Veg. \ va Ane
4 ay} fe . + :
| pos. ;
; wy poms fis x. Bee _Sanes RP va Vb Oo Bet A, aaa pay GF
: coe 5
bucshey & @ snd (a ua Jamin Babort Sad} A nbe :
i [ ae : ae ; fy
4 yO ve
wie § CRyny OPI Ee. iP WSSNE tdaey Toad Ue.
i. | pouven, 8 Sesea pyizeesa [sores Babert Tate; Eu. mae
{ | ;
i: 1 .
{ £ PSBGs Fonac. . | wasiv7660 franzc Robart Tadd). Berahary . Pay
gers Fee orth, Goxas | | PLSTSE |sacse Retert Tad4 | Via. “thst ae
} ' a ae Oe
a? 7
Ghrovegare, © j Sarse Fober, Tedd du
s
. . '
jfabh. [ieectea, Foran Bushs flere Rotor Tow Fw. .
, | notte, Ferag saris lsamoa Povest Pde. ‘Barpioe 8 Uae TEE
Boke nating, Pomag cwythh Mazes Pobort 44, iy
oo %
hop fs pee Wy. B, Pade bes,
3 v
? ie BoD 4 the

 

e

 

 

 
"James Robert Todd Interview
Page 6. :

Todd described Sue Hammond as an extremely honest person who
would never be involved in any dishonest act. Todd denied
that the Sue's Used Car Lot was used as a hangout for his
cronies and that while there they planned illegal activities.
Todd denied these charges, explaining that the purpose he ob-
tained this job for-was to offset the frequent arrests for va-
grancy that he was receiving from the Dallas Police Department.
He also would not allow any of his friends to use these premises
for a hangout out of respect for Sue Hammond as he knew she
would not approve of it and he did not want ‘her to get into
trouble.

According to Todd, he does not remember what year or under
what circumstances he met Jack Ruby. He describes their asso-
ciation as being so casual that he really cannot recall any de-
tails of even when he last saw him. Todd could not explain or
understand how Ruby would have his phone number in his possession
ds he does not believe he ever gave his phone number to Ruby.
Todd admits to being in the Silver Spur several times and had
visited the Vegas Club. He thinks he remembers Eva Grant as
being at the door of the Vegas Club. Todd strongly denied hav-
ing any dealings or associations with Ruby. He would explain
that when he met Ruby in the street he would exchange greetings
and continue’.to walk as Ruby would always try to stop and engage
him in a social conversation. Todd characterized Ruby as al-

ways being in the police station on social calls and he was:

FS

HW 55923 DBoold:33261315 Page @
James Robert Todd Interview
Page 5.

shot said assailant to death. He was arrested and served two
years for this crime. On November 22, 1961 he received a full
pardon. for this crime. The other crime Todd admitted to was -'
when he was arrested for burglary by throwing a rock through a
window and stealing $500 which he gave to a friend who needed
the money.

Todd denied ever being engaged in safe cracking activities
although his arrest record discloses 4 arrests for transporting
explosives indicating the arrests may have been for carrying
nitro, an explosive commonly used by safe crackers for blowing
up safes.

Since the death of Lois Green in 1949 Todd said he began
to break away from what he was doing and decided to get a job.
He worked at different places until finally he went into the
oil business and has been extremely successful.in that field.
Mr. Biesel, Todd's attorney, had quoted to us during an earlier
interview that Todd is now a millionaire. He heads the

located at 6116 North Expressway, Dallas,
Texas.

When asked about Sue's Used Car Lot, Todd replied that he
was. very familar with the place as he worked there as a sales-
man for several years. The car lot was operated by Sue Souther-
land who later married Harry Hammond. They are still married

and she is presently the Vice President of the Merchants Bank.

HW 55923 DBooid:33261315 Page 7
James Robert Todd Interview

Page 3.
oil properties that a doctor friend of his invested
$30,000 in. After some negotations by Todd, Morgan re-
turned the $30,000 back to the doctor.

William Decker - Only knew him as a police.officer. He
had a reputation of being a good, firm man. word was
also out that Fritz was not a man to fool around with.

Jettie Bass - He is dead now. Died of a heart attack a
few years ago. He was an Indian... Todd knew him as a
burglar.

Nick Cascio - Describes him as a very nice guy until some-
-one crosses him and then he could be very tough. Has
known him for 35 years. Todd last saw him three or four
months ago and is in bad health with cancer. He said
Cascio was a burglar.

Angelo Thomas Casten.-~States he only knows him from ‘the
Dallas area.

Hollis de Lois Green ~ Has known him since 1939 and lists
him as one of his best friends. He"would not go into too
much detail as to what -type association they had but only
constantly praised Lois Green as being a "great guy."

Ray Brondo - A used car salesman; hasn't seen him in 25
years.

R.D. Mathews - Todd states he knew Mathews very well. When
we attempted to question him regarding any illegal acti-
vity he and Mathews were engaged in during the Green.

J

Todd replied, "Let's just say we were social friends

HW 55823 Eoold:32261315 Fage 5
James Robert Todd Interview
Page 4.

and leave it at that.”
‘4 James Henry Dolan - Only knew him as a casual friend.

Paul Roland Jones - Had known him for’ two. or .three years.
Did not know too much about him but questioned the fact
that Ruby associated with Jones. Todd said that Jones
was not the type to have Ruby around him because of his
(Ruby's) association with the police.

Joe Bonds - Todd said he knew him as a night club operator
and that Lois Green was killed outside of Bond's night
club.

Campisi - Todd said he is just a guy who runs a restaurant.
Never associates with him but has eaten in his restaurant.

It must be noted that Todd was purposely vague about describ-

ing details of..the persons that he was associated with. He also
would not go'‘into too many facts concerning any illegal activi-
ties with the exception of admitting to two crimes that he had
committed. One was for the crime of homicide and the other was
a burglary. He was convicted and served time for both crimes.
The details Todd gave concerning his homicide arrest was as fol-
lows: Todd stated that on September 3, 1953, while seated in

a. restaurant, a man entered, and without any provocation, pro-
ceeded to cut Todd on the side of his throat and other parts of
his body. Todd ran outside, bleeding profusely, obtained a gun
from R.D. MATHEWS, fired one shot into the air to make.certain

the gun was in working order and then entered the premises and

HW 55923 DocId:32261315 Page 6
KENNEDY.

 

_ INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

o14ss7

1. Identifying Information:

Name JAmME x: Ropeet To dD | Date Mins 3 , ABT?

AddressA€34 Ogres Be. Place _2¢7 “4 Exehance FL.
City/State Dallas ae Telephone 244 369-6595 ©
"Date of Birth ya-rao-/1rP7 ‘Mor § \ nt
'. Social security ma | Spouse WA
; - oe : -Children 2 a
2. Physical Description: . oe . —
; | Height So . Color Eyes Blue Hair Gees Sg
Weight /6 57 : os _ Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group W)

 

ae oy

3. Personal History:

ae Present Employment: Seif Emplofed Cou lepJES )

“Address GIIG N. Expaesswa/ 7 ;

Telephone F

b. Criminal Record
1. .ArrestsNJany

2. Convictions pelea Teo

4. Additional Personal Information: a coe ;
a. Relative(s): Name St Ke/ Cesc!
- Address B67 M Exh VCE Lawl
b. Area frequented: .

‘cc. Remarks:

Investigator Y Mt sea Te Li ae es
Date KZ °fa . Form #4-B

HW 55823 Eoold: 32261315 Page 2

 

   
v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO:

TITLE :

DATE:
PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK Assassination System ; Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

HSCA
180-10105-10384

NUMBERED FILES
014447

Document Information

HSCA
TODD, JAMES ROBERT

05/09/1978
12

HAMMOND, SUE

TODD, JAMES ROBERT

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND; DESCRIPTION AND
IDENTIFICATION

LEADS AND INFORMATION

SUMMARY : .
Unclassified

Open in Full

Redact

08/08/1993

Attached copy of criminal record. Box 258.

MW 55923 Doold: 323261315 Page i

10/7/201
KENNEDY. .

” SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS _

-™ Name James Robert .Todd . Date May 9, 1978 Pime 10:15 a.m.

we, AT. Gates D :
\ Address 4B han pes a Place Offices of his attorney
' : , xchange

{

“|. — Dallas, Texas oo (357- 5676)
'

Interview: On May 9, 1978 Staff Investigators. Joseph J. Basteri

and Albert Maxwell interviewed James Robert. Todd in the offices ©

of his attorney Jerry Biesel. Mr. Todd states. that he is self-

employed and heads the Todd Oil and Investment Co. Inc., located

at 6116 North Central Expressway, Dallas, Texas. (Tel:214/369- 6585) «
Todd states that he was born in Groesbeck, Texas and came ©

to Dallas in 1939 and was arrested soon after as he was mistaken

for Henry Noble, a known criminal in the area. While in jail he

~Y

met Lois Green and their friendship continued until Lois Green
was killed by an unknown assailant on December 24, 1949.
While mention was made that Lois’ Green headed a gang that

was operating in and about the Dallas area, Todddid not subscribe
_to this description of Lois Green. Todd states that the Green
gang is nothing but propaganda generated by the local press.
There was no such organized crime but only a group of fellows
who hung out together.. These men may have committed crimes
together but it was not under the direction of Lois Green. A

few minutes later, while dening organized crime existed in Dallas,

he remarked that whenever Hed ° visit
Interviewer Signature “YAK Oe RE a Diy

rt Maxwel

   

Typed Signature Joseph J. Basteri and

pate transcribed Rife 5-24-78

By: —— Form #4,
HW 55923 DocEd:32261315 Page 3 : ; ;
HW 55823

James Robert Todd Interview

Page 2.

these persons to inform them that Dallas is their territory

and for them to get out of town and find their own territory.
Todd admitted that in the 30's and early 40's Dallas was

a wide open town until a reform district attorney by the name

of Will Wilson cleaned up the town.

To illustrate how he and Lois Green had no law enforcement

or political connections, Todd suggested we check their arrest

records which will disclose the countless times they had been

‘arrested for vagrancy. He pointed out that if anyone had any

connections they would certainly not. be harrassed by the police
department: in such a manner.

Todd answered that he does not know the following named
persons: Irwin Weiner, Lenny Patrick, Sam Yaras, Barney Baker,
Harry Hall, Alex Gruber, Ralph Paul, Robert Ray McKeown, Andrew
Armstrong, Tom Eli Davis III, William Cies, Harry Olsen and
James Braden. His answer as to his relationship with the fol-
lowing persons are:

Lewis McWillie - Only knew him as a crap player and gam-.
bler. Never associated with him.

George Senator - Only knew him as a person who would sell
clothing; has bought:: a few suits from him.

George Butler - Only knew him asa police officer and he
was always "tailing me."

Morgan Brown —- Toda said he met him for the first time two

or three months ago in Dallas. The meeting concerns some

Bocld:32261315 Page 4
