CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) indexes the refusal sheet;

.(2) places one look-out card in the look-out file as
a temporary card and the other is stored for fu-
ture forwarding to prepare an TBt card, (When
the IBM card is received it replaces the tempor-
ary card and becomes the permanent cerd).

(3) When these steps have been performed the indivi-
dual performing them signs the refusal sheet.

(4) The passport file is then forwarded to the Pass-
port Office files for storage or to a requesting
individual.

- ‘The indexing of the refusal sheet consists of the following: The indi-
yidval's name is typed along the right-hand margin of the refusal sheet by a
clerk designated to do so and, under the old system, the name preceded by the
munber 130. Also, prior to the adoption of the current refusal sheet where
the signature of the clerk receiving the file end refusal sheet within the
Clearance Section is required, the indexing was the only evidence the re-
fusal sheet wes received and a look-out card prepared by the Clearance Sec-
ticn, Moreover, the current refusal sheet was not in effect at the tine
of the CS¥ALD lock-out cards, The number 130 was used as part of the State
Department's filing system, Under that system numbers 130 to 149 were
assigned to the Passport files and 130 denoted the files which were filed
py an individual's name end not by subject matter; however, approximately
two years ego the Department's files were decentralized and the numbers
were dropped. :

Prior to this current procedure the system generally required the re-
questing officer to execute a refusal sheet and forward it, with the file,
to the Clearance Section where 4 clerk indexed the refusal sheet and pre-
pared a look-out cerd, Under both systems if there wes no request to re-
turn the Pile to a particular individual it would be forwarded to the Pass-
port files for filing. .

: Under the present procedures there is a record kept of the names of all
the persons taking action on the refusal sheet with regard to the look-out
card, Under both systems it is assumed that all proper action will be teken
during the ordinary course of business. However, under neither system, pre-
sent or prior, is there any one particular individual vested with the respon-
sibility of checking to determine that all the ministerial steps required in
processing of 4 look-out card have been complied with.

6.

CONFIDENTIAL

DoclId: 32263549 Page 9
" CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey ©

C — The removal of the look-out cards is requested by those individuals
having authority to do so - generally an Adjudicator in FO or a Senior Adju-
dicator in D0. In cases where a look-out card is requested for loss of citi-
zenship, lack of citizenship, or any case where there is no time limit placed
on the look-out card the request is made when evidence is received warranting
a reversal of the Adjudicator's prior decision, In such cases the Adjudicator
rarks the refusal sheet "disregard", indicates the reason for removal, and
signs his name, The file and refusal sheet sre forwarded to the Clearance
Section where the card is removed by the Chief of the Clearence Section or
somecne designated by him, Prior to the adoption of this procedure there
was no formal record kept of the reason for removal ef the look-cut card
on the refusal sheet and the requesting officer did not sign his name cn
the sheet, The refusal sheet was merely marked "disregard" and forwarded to
the Clearance Section for removel of the look-out card,

With regard to the removal of look-out cards requested by outside egencies
this is accomplished when the requesting agency asks that it be removed, In
cases where the card has a set expiration Gate the Clearance Section removes
it automatically at the end of the period or shortly thereafter. : ,

Look-out cards requested by CF are removed by the Clearance Section when
4t is notified that the loen hes been paid in full, GF sends a monthly list
of persons who have paid in full to the Clearance Section for removal of the
look-out cards. :

Procedures in the Clearance Section dictate that the actual removal of

the card shall be accomplished by the Chief of the Section himself or his
designee,

-T-
CONFIDENTIAL

Docld: 32263549 Page 10
NPIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

the request is forwarded to the Special Consular Services (SCS) of
the Department for determination, If the loan is approved, SCS so
advises the overseas post and the loan is granted. (It is not cus~
tomary for SCS to advise the Passport Office of their reasons for
granting the repatriation loan), When the loan is granted, the
Consular Officer forwards a copy of the invoice to OF, on some oc-
casions the invoice vould indicate the individual's date and place
of birth and name, end on others only the name, These invoices
would then be forwarded to the Clearance Section of the Passport
Office and acted as a request for a look-out card, Hovever, if
the loan did not exceed $50 and did not contain a date and plece
of birth a card would not be prepared and it would be returned to
OF, As a result, therefore, when an invoice did not indicate a
date end place of birth OF discontinued sending them to the Clear-
ance Section. When en invoice did not contain the required infor-
mation the Clearance Section did prepare a look-out card and insert
it into the look-out file.

Under current procedures the loan application is sent with
the invoice to OF by the overseas post and the date, place of
birth and the amount of the loan are readily available to OF, .
The Clearance Section maintains the requirement of a date and
place of birth in order to insure positive identification when
a search is made and avoid possible embarrassment to the Depart-
ment by erroneous identification. Further, under current pro-
cedures OF prepares its own IBN look-out card end forwards it to
the Clearance Section for insertion in the look-out file. .

B — The Clearance Section of the Passport Office is that area where the
Jock~out file is maintained, When one of the areas under (A) above requests
a look-out card through the preparation of a refusal sheet, under current pro-
cedures, the following steps are takent

(a) The Senior Adjudicator or the Adjudicator preparing the
refusal sheet signs the sheet authorizing the request;

(b) a clerk within the ‘Adjudicator's area prepares the look-
out card in duplicate, signs the refusal sheet and forwards the
sheet and the duplicate cards to the Clearance Section; .

(c) the clerk within the Clearance Section receiving the

file with the refusal sheet and look-out cards performs the
following:

-5-

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32263549 Page 6
CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(b) Foreign Cperations Division: The Foreign Operations Division
(FO) receives for action, matters arising overseas relating to pass-
port and nationality matters, However, it should be noted that only
"problem" cases are referred to FO for decision (8 FAM 245.6 speci-
fies whet cases "mst" be referred to the Department "for decision");
approximately 93 to 95% of all cases arising overseas are handled
by the overseas post concerned, In cases referred to the Department,
if the adjudicator determines that there has been a loss of citizen-
ship or a failure to acquire citizenship a refusal sheet is prepared
requesting a look-out card, Also, a card may be requested in any
case where the adjudicator cesires one to act as an "alert" or "flag",
That is, although there is no legal basis under existing regulations
and statutes for refusing or limiting a passport, it is felt, none-
theless, in the adjudicator's judgment, that a pessport should not be
subseguently issued routinely. This "flag" or "alert" insures, at
least, a review of the individual's passport file prior to the issu-
ence of a pessport. Decisions for an "alert™ or "flag" are based on
the adjudicator's experience and no definite criteria are established,

(c) Legal Division: The Legel Division of the Passport Office
is composed of tne Legal Advisory Branch (PT/LAD) and the Security ~
Branch (PT/LS). Generally PT/LAD is concerned with look-out cards
in cases which involve passport frauds, imposters, child custody
cases and requests from other agencies for look-out cards, PI/LS
is primarily concerned with Commmnist Party members, Comminist syz-
pathizers, persons who have violated travel limitations, etc. This
Branch receives reports from other agencies, which are disseminated
by INR. The majority of the reports come from the FBI with a small
portion from the CIA, (INR records indicate that some 350 or more
reports are forwarded to the Passport Office each month).. PT/LS
reviews the reports and if they indicate the individual is a Con-
minist Perty member or a member of a Front Organization which in-
plies strongly the individual ise member of the Communist Party,

a look-out card is requested through the preparation of a refus
sheet,

 

(d) Office of Finance: ‘Within the Department the Office of
Finance (CF) also requests look-out cards when an individual has
been granted a repatriation loan. The procedure requires that
when an individual executes an application for a repatriation loan

“A>
CONFIDENTIAL

DoclId:32263549 Page 7
THE GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES

Docla:32263549 Page 5
_ CONFIDENTIAL

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

(1) GENERAL OVERALL PROCEDURES:

A - Generally the request for the preparation of a lock-out card comes
from thé Passport Office's (a) Domestic Operations Division, (b) Foreign
Operations Division, (c) Legal Division, and (d) the Department's Office
of Finance, : .

(a) Domestic Operations Mvision: Basically the Domestic
Cperations Division (DO) handles all applications. fer passports
within the United States, The application is generelly received:
in a passport agency, where it is reviewed by an adjudicator to
Getermine, among other things, whether or not it has been proper-
ly executed, and whether the applicant is seeking to travel in
restricted areas, Assuming the application does not indicate
restricted travel and that it is properly executed, the appli-
cant's name and date of birth are teletyped to Washington, D. C.,
where it is checked through the Clearance Section to determine
whether or not a look-out card exists. If one does not exist
the passport is issued routinely, if a cerd does exist the is-
suance of the passport is held in abeyance and the applicant's
passport file is reviewed prior to the issuance of the passport,
In cases where the application indicates a prior passport has
been issued and that it is potentially valid the agency requests
the applicant to present it for examination, If the pessport has
expired the applicant is not requested to present it. When an
application indicates a desire to travel in countries for which
there are travel restrictions and the applicant persists in his
desire, a letter of explanation is requested end is forwerded to
the Department together with the epplication for determination,
Further, applications which raise a question of citizenship, loss
of citizenship, or a possibility of fraud are forwarded to the
Department for decision. When such a question of citizenship
arises it is referred to a Senior Adjudicator who makes a deter-
mination. If it is decided there 4s prima facie evidence indi-
cating a lack of citizenship or a loss of citizenship, a look-
out card is requested by preparing a refusal shect. The pur—
pose of the look-out card is primarily to serve as a "flag" or
an "alert" to the Passport Office, In the event a passport is
subsequently applied for it will not be issued routinely, but
a review of the applicant's file by a Senior Adjudicator will
then be made to determine whether or not a passport may be duly .
issued,

-3~
CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32263549 Page 6
 
      
   

‘OUTGOING TELEGRAM « Departinient of State

INDICATE: 1 couscr -
CHARGE TO.

CONFIDENTIAL

    

 

: “TB/requested, « on behalf Warren Commi ssion, 6 interview and take -

 

; } ae statenent ‘from Robert a orengeld, Catet, Moscow Bureau for Nevsveek, °

  

 

\) fo to ‘acternine whet er he hes any information Oswald that night be of
Y am .

 

xX . “Interest. Korengold apparently had been involved with Petrulli end a - ‘

had attempted convince him not renounce American citizenship ‘in tall” .
, McVickar had told Priscilla 2 Johnson, another reporter, that Korengola

   

- of f Eubassy. Reply soonest.

Office of Security
Action, Deputy Assistent Secretary

 

 

 

wr Miss 1 Sono EES yoSlaveon vs

“ REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

eet Bes o a CONFIDENTIAL 7 oo _ "PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"
Bas" DS-322 oo Le :

Docld:32263549 Page 2
v9.1

AGENCY :
RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Docld:32263549 Page 1

HSCA
180-10110-10144

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

013269

DOS

09/03/1964
35

Document Information

MCMILLAN, PRISCILLA JOHNSON
KORENGOLD, ROBERT

REPORT
Declassified
1B; 1C
Redact
07/23/1998

Box 5.

Date:

10/21/20

 
CONFIDENTIAL :

DEPARTHENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY

 

FORM DS-838
4.26.56

 

TITLE CASE CLASSIFICATION
OS#ALD, Lee Harvey ; _ 1A4,26,00
FIELD OFFICE DATE REPORTED DATES INVESTIGATED REPORTING AGENT
Jume 24 to
Washington - July 27,1964 | July 23, 1964 Louis C, Kachulis
SYNOPSIS

 

A procedural study of the look-out card system of the Passport Office
was conducted with specific reference being made to the procedures followed

‘in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case, including a security survey of the Clearance
Section, The details are set forth below.

~ CLOSED -

REFERENCE: Oral instructions from SY¥/feadquarters dated Jume 4, 1964
(Mr. Berry)

Memorandum from Mr, G, Marvin Gentile to Mr. Henri G, Grignon .
dated June 2, 1964

Kemorandun fron Mr, A, Schvartz to Hr, G, Marvin Gentile dated
Hay 20, 1964

DETAILS

Pursuant to the authority in the referenced oral instructions and memo-
randa, and a conference held on Jume 23, 1964, attended by Mr, Charles Hace,
Mr, Richard Frank, Mrs, Frances Knight, Mr, Edvard Hickey, Mr. Robert D.
Jomson, Mr, G, Marvin Gentile and the writer, a procedural study of the
look-out card system of the Passport Office was conducted,

    
  
     
     
 
   
     
   

APPROVED DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE

 

DATE RECEIVED

 

   

(Special Agent in farge)
COPIES REFERRED 3 - Headquarters
1 - WFO file (64-1475)

REVIEWED BY AGENT SUPERVISOR

 

 
 

 

  

(Date) (Initials)

CONFIDENTIAL aa
Ceclassification

THIS REPORT 1S THE PROPERTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND 17S
CONTENTS MUST NOT BE DISCLOSED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS.

GPO 681584

DocId: 32263549 Page 3
’ CORFIDENTIAL

GSWALD, Lee Harvey

The lock-out card process can be divided into two categories, (a) one
which can be referred to as the judicial aspect and (b) the ministerial as-
pect. The first eategory concerns itself with the basis or criteria used
in determining whether or not a card shall be requested. The second cate-
gory concerns itself with the mechanical steps involved in preparing a
lock-out card from the time a decision to request a card is made until the
filing of the card, Since the purpose of this study is primarily. concerned
with the procedures in handling the look-out cards, emphasis will be placed
on the rinisterial aspect of the look-out card process with reference to
the judicial espect primarily for reasons of background. Furthermore, any
recommendations at the conclusion of this report, which can be said to fall
within the judicial realm of the process, are offered not as criteria for
refusing a passport, but only as a means of avoiding the routine issuance
of a passport to an individual with a questionable background, Moreover,
the study was confined to inquiries to a@etermine how the look-out cards
are handled in a typical "GSWALD" case and specifically the procedures
followed in the Lee Harvey OSWALD case dtself, This study is broken down.
into the following categories: (1) the general overall procedures, (2)
the Lee Harvey CSWALD case, (3) security survey of the Clearance Section,
(4) recomendations, and (5) summary of SY¥/files having derogatory infor-
mation relating to personnel assigned to the Clearance Section.

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

i
i

DoclId:32263549 Page 4
