 

>it

 

4

Mr, Strange suggested that if this- procedure be followed, Subject should
Shea Le given tue name of che branch office rather than the one ia os
Philadelphia, Mr. suggested the wording of auch a letter (the basic
idea of which would be for Subject to combine business with pleasure) wich
Iwill write up (ir agreed upon by AC/PAD/¥P) in final draft, and Gover
Division will then transfer it to the appropriate letterhead. Hovever, I
advised both M’o@oomy)and Mr. Strange that before gcing into this watter | _
further, I would have to check this whole matter out with you on 14 January.

4. 4s far as financing 1s concerned, Mr. oof WH ds taking care —
of this matter and as of 13 January, the request for the advance ($2,000) —
haa been approved, The request for one-half of Tichborn's salary, ($850)
must await approve) until Subject has aligned the amendment to his contract .
(which was received by this office on today!:s date). As per your svggestion,
Mr. Strange has agreed to-provide payment of Tichborn by a check draw. _
on the cover company to be deposited with Subject's bank. (I gusss the
final decision on this will depend on how Subject wants the mmey, whether
a bank deposit or cash.) If done through the cover company and sent to

 

Tichborn's benk, wa should allow at least four or five days for the

deposit to be made, depending upon the speed of the postal system.

Sk Shel
Evdlena Vidal :
PP/PAD

 

 
 

 

[toa-torra-ooas wo

oo ree rtm Ae Re A st Ne Hd An att na Lest! mame at

 
 

 

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Cuba TDY ~ Edvard G. Tichborn (P) -

. 03 1. On 12 January and ‘Db January I talked with
of KH Diviaton to firm up details rq Tithoorn efing here
on 15 January and re preperations for his trip to Cuba.

 

2. ‘Re the briefing, it was decided that: 4) Mr. will give
Subject a goneral briefing on the Cuban political situstion j@ major one
will be undertaken by the Staticn). (2), Subject will be given sanitized
‘copies of the Ferlonge (?)} report Section IV, and of the report
prepared. hy the Plans Branch/PP/FS entitled "Target Study of Opposition
Groups in Cuba" to be read by Subject while at the briefing and then returned
to-as.. Some observations. on security will probably also be made at this .

. _time, 4a addi td oa te instructions on the manner of keeping and subaitting his
wo oe fin ounting. (It should. ba mentioned here also that WH Finance/admin
“ : . (Mr is of the opinion that since Tichbarn will return to Kashingtor
: fo in abo woeks time, it is not necessary for him to submit his accounts

: ‘my mall, since that can be taken care of on his return.)

 

. “3 The problen which seemed to need most careful consideration was
. that of hid. cover while in Cuba, In talking te operational contacts he
makes there the cover story suggested by the Station in IN-47609 of ‘12 Nov.:
: aa 1959 appears adequate.” However, according to Pan American Airways, pm
; . “+ arpival in Havane the visitor is {ssued.a tourist card by the Cuban
i . - Immigration authorities. One mst state his profession at this time, which
; - should present no problem’ to Tichborn. It could be that one is also asked
: . his reason for being in.Cuba, In this case, WH has suggested that the
i answer .of- "tourist? would be best since leas sugpi¢ion would be placed on
Subject in the beginning. The important aspect, however, appears to be
that of covering Tichborn as wall as possible in the event that he runs.
afoul of the Cuban authorities due to the nature of his activities and his
contacts. I brought this matter up with WH and they agreed that some kind
of backstopping might be a good idea. As a result, I contacted Mr. Strange |
of Cover Division who assured me that, if ne~essary, an appropriate letter
: could be provided Tichborn from 3 cover com spyThe one finally decide
1 of on as the most logical was thet dot the cover ccapany; in 24
, hich bad opiginally bees provided for funding Tichborn.

 

ony §
. aie. sie a)

 
