 

 

SECRET

 

a4

 

 

.G@» -NOEMAYR's sister-in-law, Isabel per
formed some services for the organization 3 i ths
period that she was the secretary of a Swiss there in’
1951 or 1952. ‘The Swiss appeared suspicious to the Station, and
she was instructed by NOZMAYR to prepare the ground for surreptig
tious entry into his office for acesss to his files. Consequently,
she has knowledges of something of the nature of NOEMATR's interests.

OL

@. NOEMAYR’s brother-in-law, Antonie was briefed

 

one uroposed illegal. entry into home of 6
a

 

tempts were made but falled dus to unrortunaté HWORMAYR
commented that he finally carried out this operation himself.

An’ that he was working against the CP and that
WOEMAYR had ODYOKE connections. Antonie also did a few KUCAGE

jobs such as painting slogans on walls, for which hs was paid.

NOEMAYR commented that he eaw some of these slogans still on the
” walls when he visited San Jose in January, 1960.

ff.  NOSMAYR's relatives are not aware of his affiliation

with ODYOKE. © know only his cover stories. His parents
now live ini pe

he NOEMAYR was asked to elicit further data on his sister-in-
law, Consuelo, who is living with him at this tim. In particular, he
was to gst a resord of her employment since 1957, including dates,
namas, addresses and type of work. He said this could be done easily
without arouding her suspicions on the basis that he needed the infor=
mation for income tax purposes since she now counted as his dependent.

S. NOEMAYR remarked that he had gotten a loan of $700 from the
same bank which provided him the lean for the purchase of his sutomo-
bile and that with this additional lean, he would be able te cover the
purchase of whatever furniture he would need. He said that the bank
‘loan would cost him $64.10 per month for twelve (12) months as opposed
to something over $66 per month for twelve months had he taken it
through the Credit Union. BYNAM asked if he was certain he could
carry the two obligations. He said thet he had worked the figures
out and felt confident that he would have no problem in meting these
obligations. He showed BYNAM a copy of his budget. NOEMAIR said,
however, that he is counting on early reimbursement of the temporary
housing allowance for his initial month in the United States. BYNAM
said he would look into this.

"5 6 NOEMAYR sald he had seen a most recent Chief of Station in
Gan Jose)in the Presidential Gardens area recently, and asked whether
he should recognize him or not. Since NOEMAYR is continuing under deep

 

 

 

SECRET
 

[rostorte-oar|_

wt

   

-B

sriial eo GLA
Background Use Only
SECRET + ie Not Reprecuce
6 April 1960
MEMORANDOM FOR: FILE .
_ SUBJECT : Meeting with Harold R. NOEMAIR and Oliver R. BYNAM,

7 April 1960, 1800 hours, NOZMAYR's apartment.

1.  BYNAM delivered a portable typewriter (Olivettd) to NORMAIR,
whe signed a hand receipt for it. Some bond paper and carbons were

2.  NOEMAYR was requested to complete a report on his covery which
had besn asked for earlier. Be said he would do this promptly now that

he had the typewriter.

36 BYNAM then questioned NORMAIR in detail about the extent of
knowledge that his relatives and those of his wife had about his work.

a. WOEMAYR's wife knows that he is engaged in intelligence
work for KUBARE. She knows that he must met agents and that his
work concerns penetration of thée(BQjYPSJES. She doas not know
any details of his work nor hes she met any of the agents ha has
handled. In Mexico she has spoken on the phone with LLJOINT and
_LIMAD, OEMAYR made an aside comment in response to BYNAM's
‘query whether LIMAD was of any value, to the extent that LIMAD
at least is in the women's movements and as long as no other
better soures is available, it would not be wise to drop her.

b,. NOEMAYR's sister-in-law, Consuslo, who is now living
with the NOEMAYRS, does not imow that NOEMAYR‘'s work is for KUBARK.
She knows that he works for ODYOKE in a confidential capacity.
NOEMAYR described her as a remarkebly simple person for her age
with regard to political matters. He said she had neither an-
avereness nor an Anterest in such things. 5
. (o~t -

EMAYR had recruited his rother= Lend y
but received instructions through (Mexico) and (San j¢-(5
Jose § back ont of the recruitment; therefore, Mario
knows that Ni ociated with ODYOKE intelligence. Marie
ee in the onmunist Party and was to work his

r the party. When iristructions were -recelved to withdraw
from the recruitment, NOEMAIR 2 > dvised Mario to con-
tinue to work his wey back into the party and that when he was
again solidly ensconced thera, possibly something could be done
about it. Mario,never reseived any money for his trouble either
during thé-céhbidsration’éf recruitment or since thet time. In
anticipation of receiving a salary (from KUBARK), he had gone
into some debt. NOFMAYR personally helpex him out of these obli-
gations with his own funds.

SECRET

   
     
 
 

 
  

UBM TC CLA
Backoround Use Criy
SECRET +» (06 Net Reproduce

ob
cover, BYNAM recommended that he not recognize nin(—*d

Te Discussion dwelt for some time on NOEMAIR's experiences in
Cuba. It is obvieus that he would likes another opportunity to work
on this problem. He said that, at the
Fidel CASTRO than any other
Spenish. He thought that the g ra
might possibly at soma future time be useful, to the orggnization. He
recalled one evening in the Sierra Masstra, when he ;
campfire with Castro, discussing with Castre his problems for a matter
of four hours. Castro at that time was anxious to have planes and
particularly wanted a heliocepter with an American pilot. WOEMATR
suggested the name of a friend of his in Payton who could provide the
heliecopter and asked Castre what he would be willing to pay. Castro
said he would pay $25,000 (US Currency) for the machine and the going
rate of salary for the pilot. NOEMAYR reported this matter to Heade
quarters and thought it unfortunate that thia had not been capitalized
upon since KUBARK could have had a penetration in the Castro imer-
eircle at this time if this proposal had been fellowed up.

8 Hext meeting: 13 April 1960, 1800 hours, NOEMAYR's apart
ment. :

ae
¥
BE
|
fi
E

OLIVER Re. BYNAM

SECRET
