tr a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

So re TIORT

PROGIBITED

 

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian ctransTa-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there

  

a4

et ip
but those picked up were usually for dates a fe aaa: ePére Since the 4

   
 

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up 1

 

technician who was processing the Fim, te OR a 1 night-time basis. i

Further, photographs were not mes eh any until a complete roll of : i

film was used. Later “agen and the operator cleared the camera a

 

at the end of each day re Sees, of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were to cover. the entire work day (office hours) and to

Photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

- foreign license Plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the listening Post operators

from a tap of thé Soviet Tine... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

 

 

‘RePaooueTION =
PRONERTED
 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station Personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in ; H
either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only
these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

 

 

 

~ 6000163

 

IR

‘REROOUCTION «=i (ts
PRORIBITED
acre
, | PROHIBITED

 

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned '

street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

 

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was
being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate Photo~
‘ graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building
on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site i Bue ye middle of
aa

fuate of the Soviet
Bus

Wa located in one of a ane

ue

  

the block south. It had a. Planted view of the.
Embassy. LICALLA, the third photograp! an ww
row of four houses on the pe gion. Soviet Embassy compound. : 7
This site overlooked the SS My of the Soviet Embassy compound. The |
Purpose of this oper SN to get good identification photographs of :
Soviet personnel. he three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-

veloped and Printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was -

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent. ~

0000459

 

‘RePRODUCTION = tt
PRORIBTTED
104-10086-10009

 

oe a eTTOR

7 _ ( & —  ¢

 

 

‘Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage: ©

From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in 1955, the Station had

developed a support: apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTIG ee of multiline |
=a

phone taps, three photographic Sites, a ea lance team and a

 

mail intercept operation.

. : Telephone taps (LEED we, by an employee o of the local
EON

a telephone company wens peres by a Station case officer. The number

 

 

of lines tapped wa’ ited only by the availability of a listening post
. nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
7 American recruited agents.
4 "Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
* assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
Operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
‘bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

O306158 ©
. E2, IMPDET 7
OPAMP T IATMATAN ~ CL BY 604645
NBYTEE G3 My EL Cree ; a woo,

‘REPRODUCTION
PROKIBTED

nN min
eg
oe PROwIBITED

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers,

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of |
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for ot
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral gon operation,

cy

 

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American a or A recruited
Mexican agent, who had a senlofficiay ae tained selected letters :

from a subagent employed by the ie Sebstal system.

2. Liaison Coverage: sy :
Liaison cee unreljable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction
of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This- Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of
foreigners. Their agents were wees etal | and corrupt. A Station
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel contro}, In

1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

Operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

 

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED
cece
, | PROLIBITED

A meree
aii:

 

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

Army officers. In 1961, because. of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-

 

cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

- Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of tha listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:
In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the , |

Joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the AeHOY Vistening
y : i
' post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, cuban' Sid SateTt ite Em-

 
  

 

bassies in anticipation of possible cover; a She's tation immediately |
disconnected all of the unilateral tah taps on these Embassies so
that they would not be ES ay the Mexicans hooked up their
taps. The Mexicans ee connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czeth lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which ‘were then included ‘in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
‘full transcripts were typed and passed to ‘the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. “Reels which contained Russtan

63 Y
4 00164
QCA ORT RRENCITYT
SEbHeLSCUSTVE

REPRODUCTION
--PROGIBITED
