74-0000

 

 

se ne IE ST

Se eenterannn mete aiinntey : yatte ry en ements
: :

etree etre ot wt Hho td

\

&

 

va
we
“ee

a
‘oa 10174-10056

Pow

 

cl

 

FETURN To ci,

Backgro .
. - ; . UA Us, _
ten a Do Nol Bebrorinntl a Sapte on

pispatcH | Séchel | ammnm

Tey
Cube? of Shatdea, Hobewe

mer

   
   

 

  

NO wate NOUR
MORN Can 8 ROOD
BY Qua OQ OE ORY

    
  

Station connate by eoble

Geimee ee

1. The eenler MCAS aff bes Poarulted a wuxkor ef iadividaals whe bare
bed cutansive experiences in pelisier, particularly as empaiga massgere 24
.palities} erganisers, Very roesctiy end ef theoe ergmiioers wie soct(te :
where be eas in contact with the Siwtlon and th: tas prinaipal egente
pelisigal artion project. In ahiltien to hie eenvorectiene with these Indiyidedta
he alse traveled erommi the acca and talked te a muader of axtcltting ladicideale
prior to meeting ogaia with Station paresane] amd the principal agente. Ag @
veoult of his enrersstions ant af Bia delving into the legs) politienl scam,
be was able ie exes up wilh ea execadingly Lafenuned aconeement ef the lesal
pelities] evers af well 2s ceamwta retowsendstlens im magard te the exoenieetian
ef the palitisal estiea faetions belag sarperted by AUMES, ples rosrmecdatiens
na te hew they shoul] preeesd toward eeetiag thade ieeodiate predlens, mich
ineleded the melding of 5 ceaber ef divergent fesitens inte « sesreive angml-
satles sapsble af enited artiaa ageiwet the Commmists at the polla, the fteties
sue pleased with the results alvset to the letter ia thedy yeoummodritens te

Keaiqesrters,

2. % bs Reaspiartors’ Poeliag that edward O, TICHOGN, dreribed fa
Payegreph ®& telew, semld perfern a vary ase fn) Coda ainilar te that .
which the argenkser seatlansi Tneve pertorneri{ia fir peeiced with 3s
galteble corer story, TICSKYR qeould wielt iateaio VARCMA (che we eaterstazt Le
wey reepwering fren o reotat sutemekile aceident), sureliane SaNCHs Araage ang
ether vegiews) and mational politisal leaders. Gm tie kagia of bie dlemeniend
with thes he should be able to aeme ep with «2 maxber ef preetival euggeatiens
whieh womld be ef valaa in ieplasesting. ANTATSOL end other fatere political
. setien projects. Tus sdvantages which m orzeniaor ef thie type offern te @
field statien aro, Clret, that do- le a spealrliat in iho doteile ef prestiosl
peiiiion-a treed aad sexmlen flald of enteaver—and sevemd, taal Bo talka te
fellow politiotans as a mot-effiatal preatiaioner of tbat art aad is usiehibited
by any evert eemmsetion wita O5FSN2..

3. 43% ba prepeeed, tharefare, that TICHH RH be cent to pour Hotlea oa
TOX for 30 days te consult with Station parvanme) asf te talk te TANGA, SAME,
and ethere. We showld like ta heve ywur euoxsents ou this prupesal as wll ag
weatever ideas yeu may have’ om ubat cuver etary TICHAGRY could ese Geriag ais
talke with the polities] esdare lavolwed. It 29 the bellaf af Mendigeasters” an :
that, engo Sno initial esatasts ate ectadlishal, through direst iatree . ° of,
deetlena by the Stetien, a natural affinity ef laterest butamea TIGRE wend tS - ,

   

they Oshaas ill serve te cstahliea recpart quiurly. dlthengh the TO of .

TICHEOGN would be ef valac silsty an eoomection eith AW ATROL, wa soxld gpagep

that be be cont imeadlately, befere fleel prejest approval. oe ae ©
° & TlOULES was bare in Over, Calareds, 1920. BA, Ualversits af Inawer, 7

)agha) Gradeate Sebenk «2 seereules, Harvard Giiveralty, 29-1684) 113 Bape
Law Salseol, 102; greceate atasy, Calwaraided Boalensl co Fontes, 1955. Ss ie
B progiieles attaragy and has Bad a ¢ @eek of polities] axptricasa, So
cavassovsiubly fer + ben affiee an tps Lananetie tient an Caldlarnds da 16))00
io iy a Pal Bote Rapa; une prosidesi(al the tarvard Lew Bysscl Mews pad Age 9.”
peliched 9 mraber of arilales cw Lav sind Laser SC te Lo em asariesn af SSeuy GS Rate
Mgntesa parents, wha speaks active Getler: Spealeh sad bus s typheel Eexdoem YY”.
eppesrnaces he teuld poss fer » kaxicas, be bas om several poasstons visited be *

ot #
ro

s

“

 
