   

!

by Mexican authorities » SEGRET p.m. on 23 “November 1963
for interrogation.

[DIR 84950, 25 November 1963. ]

23 November 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico City Station that the arrest
of Silvia DURAN is an extrenely serious matter, which ‘could
prejudice United States Government freedom of ‘action on the
entire question of Cuban responsibility. With full regard
for Mexican interests, Headquarters requests the Station to
ensure that her arrest is kept abselutely secret, that no +
information from her is published or leaked, that all such
information is cabled to Headquarters, and that, the fact of
her arrest and her statements are not spread to leftist or
disloyal circles in the Mexican Government.

[DIR 84916, 23 November 1963.]

23 November 1963

At 1915 hours (Mexico time), the Mexico City Station
advised the Legal Attache of Silvia DURAN's arrest and of
Headquarters' desire for secrecy. The Legal Attache_had
not heard of the arrest although he had talked to Gobernacion |
contacts several times during the last hour. The Station
indicated that it had also informed the Ambassador.

([MEXI-7042 (IN ), 23 November 1963.]

23 November 1963

Silvia DURAN was arrested at home with her husband and
members of the family who were having a party. All were
taken to jail. Since she had told not only her husband but
other members of the family about OSWALD's visits after she
read the name and saw his picture on television, she attribu-
ted her arrest to a denounciation by a cousin whom she does
not like. The Station then indicates that the source of the
Mexican Government's knowledge: (of her contact with OSWALD)

has not been revealed to her.

[MEXT-7054 (IN 67378), 24 November 1963.]

SEGRET
 

SERET

Silvia DURAN had the impression that OSWALD had or be-

 

23 November 1963

lieved he had made arrangements in Washington whereby in-
structions would be sent to the Soviet Embassy ‘in Mexico to
issue a Soviet entry visa in a manner which would not require
him personally to visit the Soviet Embassy. ‘Fdilure of his
"i

real or imagined instructions to work smoothly. caused him to
become rude to the Soviets. Her impression was that he was
_-. Simply a "comrade" who could not live confortably under the
rigors of capitalism and wished to return to his spiritual
home in the USSR. If OSWALD talked to anyone else in the

Cuban Embassy, she was unaware of it.

{MEXI-7054 (IN 67378), 24 November 1963.]

23 November 1963

According to source, the staff meeting at the Cuban
Embassy on 23 November was very short and somber. The
general impression was one of shock and disbelief.

(MEXI-7115 (IN 69636), 28 November 1963.]

24 November 1963

Luis ECHEVARRIA told the Chief of Station. that Silvia
DURAN was completely cooperative and gave a written state-
ment attesting to two visits by OSWALD. She could not remem-
ber the exact dated but said it was the latter part of Sep-
tember. OSWALD showed her a. American passport showing a .- |
long stay in the USSR. OSWALD said he was a communist and
an admirer of CASTRO. He wanted her help to get a transit
visa to Cuba in order to go to the USSR. She said she could
only arrange transit through Cuba if he already had a Soviet
visa. The Soviets told her that they had further checking
to do before they could issue a visa. DURAN did. not know
why he returned to the United States without a visa. DURAN
told Gobernacion that: she had recognized OSWALD on the tele-
vision on -22 November 1963.

The Chief of Station has told the Ambassador of DURAN's
arrest and will brief the Legal Attache at 0930, 25 November,
a |

SEGRET
74-0000

-7-

SEGRET

é
your Embassy and they took my address. The Soviet says I

 

know that. The American, in hardly recognizable Russian,
says I did not know it then. I went to the Cuban Embassy

to ask them for my address, because they have it. The
Soviet says why don't you come again and leave’ your address
with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. | The American
says I'll be there xight away. :

[Memorandum for Deputy Chief, Operations Staff, dated 2 May
1975, from Raymond G. ROCCA; Subject: Review of Agency Hold-
ings Regarding Photograph of Unidentified Individual in

Mexico City Published by. the Warren Commission. ]

23 November 1963 7

Mexico Station suggests to the Ministry of Gobernacion
that Silvia DURAN, who is a Mexican employee at the Cuban
Embassy and.who put Lee OSWALD on the telephone from the Cu-
ban Embassy to talk to the Soviet Embassy on 28 September,
be arrested immediately and held incommunicado until she
gives all details relating to OSWALD known to her.
(MEXI~7029 (IN ), 23 November 1963.}

23 November 1963 ;
LIC. Luis ECHEVARRIA informed the Chief of Station at

1800 Mexico time that Silvia DURAN and her husband had al-

ready been arrested. They are presently under interrogation
by Gobernacion authorities. The Chief of Station asked
ECHEVARRIA to take measures requested in DIR 84916 {see
below]. ECHEVARRIA promised to try to keep arrest secret.
He definitely promised all information obtained from DURANS.
First report should be ready by 2009 Mexico time. Station
added that it will not be possible to keep arrest from her
family and from Cuban Embassy very long. —

(MEXI-7037 (IN 67236), 24 November 1963.]

23 November 1963 i ‘(ate pf dissemination)
Headquarters disseminates to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation information regarding Silvia DURAN, arrested

SECRET
14-00000

 

3 ~ 6 -

° SECRET 4

Regarding Photograph af Unidentified Individual in Mexico

r

City Published by the Warren Commission. ]

28 September 1963 :

Silvia DURAN was again visited at the Cuban Embassy in
Mexico City by the American seeking a Cuban transit visa.
Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two members of the Soviet Embassy
and facilitated a direct conversation between one of the So-
viets and the American. ' Conversing in poor Russian, the Am-
erican stated that he already had been to the Soviet Consu-
late and had left an address. The Soviet official replied
that he was aware of that. The American suggested that he
had not known his address then, and he had gone to the Cuban
Embassy to ask for the address, because they had it. The
American then acceded to the Soviet official's invitation. to
come by and give them the address.

[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964,

from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject:

_Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey
.. OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October 1963.]

28 September 1963 :

At 1151 hours (Mexico time) on Saturday, 28 September
1963, Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an
unidentified Soviet. She says that in the Cuban Embassy
there if a North American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The
Soviet says wait a minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with
someone - and comments in Spanish that they gave APARICIO
telephone number 14-12-99 and to take the number down - Silvia
DURAN then says the American citizen is going to talk with
you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first speaks Russian and
the Soviet speaks English. They continue in English. The
American talks broken Russian and says I was in-your Embassy
and spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes
the phone and asks the American in English what does he want.
The American says please speak Russian. The Russian says

what else do you want? The American says I was just now at

SECRET
 

“3 ~4-

; é
he asks the name of the CoS EGRET. os euvet Attache. Silvia

DURAN says the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone num-
ber if 14-13-26. The man says thanks.

{Memorandum for Deputy Chief, Operations Staff, dated 2 May
1975, from Raymond G. ROCCA; Subject: Review of Agency
Holdings Regarding Photograph of Unidentified bnaividuas

in Mexico City Published by the Warren Commission. ]

27 September 1963 :

Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DURAN received a con-
firmation from the Soviet Embassy that the American had been
to the USSR installation. He had shown them.a letter from
the Soviet Consulate in Washington indicating. that he had
been long awaiting a visa for himself and his wife to go to
the USSR. No answer had come from Washington; however, the
waiting period was sometimes four or five months. ~The. Ameri-
can also had a letter attesting that he was a member of a
pro-Cuban organization but he had claimed that the Cubans
would not give him a visa unless he had already received a
Russian visa. ~ oe aes . o . wom ees etme te ae we oo

Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate,
Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give him a transit
visa unless a Soviet visa was forthcoming, notwithstanding
the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his So-
viet visa. According to DURAN, the American knew no one in
Cuba and she intended to annotate appropriately the American's
card. The Soviet official echoed her statement that the
American was not known.

{Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964,
from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject:
Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey
OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October 1963.]

27 September 1963 to Sy

At 1626 hours (Mexico time) on Friday, 27 September
1963, an unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Con-
~ sulate, asks Silvia DURAN if the American had been there.

Silvia DURAN says he is there now. The Soviet says the

Scone;
74-0000

   

| SECRET gg

American ‘showed papers from the Consulate in Washington,
that he wants to go to the Soviet Union and be there for —
a long time with his wife, who is Russian, but’ the answer
has not come from Washington in respect to this problem,
and according to this procedure it takes four to five
months, but without peraission from the soviet union they
should ask, or better said, they cannot issue a visa there
without asking Washington. However, according to this man,
“he showed a letter indicating he was a member of an organi-
“zation in favor of Cuba and that the Cubans said that they

+ cannot issue a visa without his having a visa for the Soviet
Union, and now he (the Soviet) does not know what to do with
him (the American), because they have to wait for an answer
from Washington.

Silvia DURAN agrees the same problem exists with the
Cubans, that the problem with him (the American) is that he
does not know anyone in Cuba and therefore if that is true
it will be difficult for him to get a visa for Cuba, be-
cause he was thinking of processing his visa (for the Soviet
Union), because he knew it would require waiting a long time

. for his visa to the Soviet Union while in Cuba, and from
there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet said the thing is
that if his wife right now were in Washington she would re-
ceive her visa right now, or permission, from the Soviet
Union, to return to her country, she is going to receive her
visa in Washington but having this visa, she could communicate
to any place this permission, for example here or any place
she could receive it (visa or permission), but right now they
do not have them. Silvia DURAN says certainly and they can-
not give a letter either because they do not know if the visa
will be approved. The Soviet says he cannot give a letter
or recommendation either because he does not know him (the
American) and asks to be excused for bothering her. Silvia
says that*s all right and many thanks.

{Memorandum for Deputy Chief, Operations Staff, dated 2 May
1975, from Raymond ROCCA; Subject: Review of Agency Holdings
|

SECRET

 
ZA-O0000

a,

wef - 2.

Sara!

SECRET

The Cultural Attache PROENZA never assigned her any
work outside the Embassy. She said that she had

  

died about three and a half years ago. It was through
FLORES that DURAN met PROENZA, -

tion and studies. She said She had not belonged nor
does she belong to any student groups.

"DURAN indicated she was acquainted with the _
Leninist Spactacus League (Liga Leninista Espartaco)
but that she is not in agreement wit it, and that her
husband shares: her opinion. They admire Jose REVUELTAS
aS awriter but not as a politician Since they are in
disagreement with his book entitled “The Headless Pro-
letariat" (Proletariado sin Cabeza) in which he tries
to prove the inexistence of the exican Communist Party

"She disclaimed membership. in the PCM, and said

-She had not tried to joon it because she was in disa-

greement with it except for its support of Cuba."

[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 21 February 1964,
from Richard HELMS , Deputy. Director for Plans; Subject:

Translations of Interrogation Reports of Silvia DURAN. ]

Consul Busebio AZCUE, who left Mexico on 18 November
1963 after having been replaced by Alfredo MIRAVAL
Y DIAZ.

.  .DURAN's duties included the preparation of visas
and the handling of visa applications which were for-
warded to the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs for
approval.

[MEXT-7065 CIN 67737), 25 November 1963; FBI Report, dated
18 May 1964.]

to Meixco. He received a degree from the Escuela Nacional
de Artes Plasticas. Formerly married to LuciltTe

ut divorced her on § November 1958 after. six years of
Marriage. He then married his present wife Silvia Tirado
de DURAN.

[DIR 85668, 29 November 1963.]

SECRET
 

‘aes bey -SECRET

SILVIA TIRADO BOZAN DE DURAN

 

Personal information taken from her interrogations on 23 and

28 November 1963:

"Silvia Tirado de DURAN stated she is Mexican
by birth, 26 years old, married, no religion, employed,
address in Dept. 3, house no. 143 Consti uyentes, Mexi-
co City; that she has been married to Hotacio DURAN
Navarro since 5 November 1958 and that they have a
daughter named Patricia three and one-half years old;
that in July or August of 1961, she was offered em-
ployment as coordinator at the Mexican-Cuban Institute
of Cultural Relations, then headed by Lic. Augustin
Cue CANOVAS. That since that time she had frequently
visited officers of the Cuban Embassy, having personal
friendship with Ambassador PORTUONDO, the cultural
attaches Teresa PROENZA and Luis ALVERU as well as
with other employees. Her contacts were principally
with Maricarmen OLAVARRI, Secretary to Consul Eusebio
AZCUE, a Spaniard and relative of AZCUE,. and who re-
ceived 500 pesos monthly. .

"In December 1961 she and her husband made a trip
to Havana by plane. They paid for their own tickets,
but all other expenses of their visit to all the is-
lands were paid. by the Cuban Institute of Freindship
with the Peoples (Instituto Cubano de Amistad con los
Pueblos - ICAP) and the Cultural House, ;

"She sympathized with the Cuban movement since its
beginning; that she was a coordinator of the Mexican-
Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations since July or
August 1961 and that she studied for the career of an
English-Spanish secretary at the Escuela Bancaria.

She mastered English, knows some Erenc , and is study-
ing philosophy. She has a leftist ideology, by con-
viction, and is in accord with communism, but does not
belong to any political group nor has she participated
in meetings or acts of this nature. That officers of
the Cuban Embassy, including the Consul, have been in

_ her home; that she knows almost all the principal lef-
tists in Mexico without being a friend of them; that
except for one visit to Brownesville, Texas, she has
not been in the United States."

[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 21 February 1964,
from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject:

Translations of Interrogation Reports of Silvia DURAN. ]

"She said she knew Carlos LECHUGA Hevia who was
Cuban Ambassador in Mexico and who arrived here when
she was working as Coordinator in the Mexican-Cuban
Institute of Cultural Relations. She became friendly
with this person but she never did any personal work
for him. She ‘said that this Ambassador came to her
house to visit her on the occasion of a party which
she held. She considers him as a friend and she saw
him frequently

"She said that while she was working in the afore-
mentioned Institute, and before working as a secretary
in the Consulate she went to the Cuban Embassy to help
Teresa PROENZA. The help she rendered there consisted
of answering the telephones and doing secondary tasks.

  
 

RETURN TO CIA \
Background Use Only

i ; Do Not Reproduce
SECRET co esis

  
    
74-0000

3 - 2a -

>
SECRET é

26 November 1962 ° : (Date of dissemination)
fo _movenper 2902 0

 

A usually reliable and sensitive source in Mexico
City reported that on 26 November 1962 Gladys LECHUGA,
wife of Carlos LECHUGA, Cuban Ambassador to the United
Nations, formerly Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, said that
she had received two letters from her husband \ New York.

le asked for separation and said that the person in whom

he is interested is Silvia T.-de DURAN; _that-she is lef.
his ideas" and was willing to go to Cuba. According to
source, Teresa PROENZA, Cultural Attache at the Cuban Em-
bassy in Mexico City said that DURAN had never been a.
Marxist or a communist. oe

Another usually reliable source with good contacts in

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City reported in November 1962

that. LECHUGA and DURAN did have an affair. The Cuban Embassy =.

was aware of it, but efforts were made to keep it from be-
coming known.

Information from a source whose reliability could not
be judged reported that LECHUGA had offered to marry DURAN,
a Mexican married woman, after divorcing his wife, since she
(Silvia DURAN) was ready to accompany him to Cuba.

-{DIR 84950, 25 November 1963; dissemination to the FBI.J

SECRET
74-0000

- a ; ; a en
Ls SECRET i
27 September 1963. :

In mid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN informed the Soviet

   

Embassy that a male American citizen had requested a visa
to transit Cuba on his way to the Soviet Union. She wan-
ted to know who the American had talked with at the Soviet
Consulate. Also, she indicated that the Cuban! Consulate
could grant him the visa and arrange immigration details
if the concession of a Soviet visa were assured.
[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964,
from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject:
Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey

OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October 1963.]

27 September 1963

At 1605 hours (Mexico time) on Friday, 27 September

-1963, Silvia DURAN , a Mexican national, a local employee a

of the Cuban Embassy, Consular Section, a receptionist [sic]
speaks with an unknown male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia
DURAN tells the man that the American citizen was there,
the one who wants a visa for Cuba on his way to the Soviet
Union, and he wanss to know with whom he was talking there
because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet Em- =
bassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him a visa,-

then the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him a visa without

further paper work, only advising immigration in Cuba. The

American, she says, wants to know with whom he had talked

there because he says he was told there would be no problem.
The man in the Soviet Embassy says to wait a moment. A
different Soviet speaks, and Silvia DURAN explains the same
thing to him. This man says to leave a name and telephone
number and says he will call back. Silvia DURAN gives the
telephone number 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate). She also takes
advantage of the conversation and stated she had moved and
wants to advise the Soviet Embassy of hér change of address
so that she can receive the Soviet Embassy's bulletin. The

man says to call KOUKHARENKO to give her new address, then

SECRET
