“CLARSIIGA OM Torgenros re)

 

4 (4 SECRET | _UFGA=4703

and AMFAUNA-1 hid him-in Havana until he was able to get asylum for

Tin in(the Ecuadorian Embassy}

wal 38, This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart C.
: (dis e@ following people participating in this phese were separated from
“the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity 19 (subseg': ntly es ‘aped ind took asyium
in the @rgentina Embassy) 0

 

(2) Identity 20 (subsequently escaped and took aayium
in the @rgentine Embassy) 56

(2) Identity 4#¢ (interrogateo by G-t, out the duration
of her detention is net known),

(4) Identity 52.
b. By asylum:
(1) Identity 72

(2) Identity 37.

{
|
Previous History of the Operation - December i361 to A ril 1962:
; 39. During the periodgfrom December 1961 to April 1962, AMFAUNA~1
|

tm lcontinued to use AMPAUNA-2)as a cutout to AMCQG~2. The g
Li jigiven a lead in March 1962: from Identity-13, one of her on-
ii—t-tacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, -AMEAUNA-4}o @ turne

F5) this jead over to AMFAUNA-1, and the latter held his first meeting
“with AM AUNA-8) in AMFAUNA-2's automobile. .
io Ol ol Lae
it “40. aMfauNna-J) ws also used as alternate cutout to Identity-1l,

a woman with contacts(in the Cuban NavyOGtheother alternate gut-
md cout was AMFAUNA-8. Identity-1ll was arrested({in February 1969 Accord-

 

al

ng to AMFAUNA-1'2 account of the incident in message No. 893 of
op ena NP haa had been nesting |
AMFAUNA-1 had warned her fic > but
ehe mer nim again the following day and was caught with him.
<; AMFAUNA~1 commented that some of his other agents were not compartmente
“4 from her, and he had ordered them to go into hiding. He gid net
( identify these other agents. Presumably they included AMFAUNA~2 and
AMFAUNA=8. 5 ol

 

2} cutout to Identity-1206 the (Havana representativeJof the insurgent

|. _.leader Aewording to an official announcement by -the F
Cuban Government, action on (i6 April) 1962. Other
' gources have contradicted this repor and the matter still remains in

some doubt. However, according to information obtained by AMFAUNA-1,

ui, AMFAUNA-3 was recruited during’ this period and used as a |
Hi
¢ |
Identity-12 was arrested in his home in Havana in late April. Fora

 

further discussion of the possible security implications of this
connection, see paragraph 59 below, -

pene ee rr NR 2 APTA ONES PS EY RENE Tt LU MARA RN TERI, LEE OS OS ETT MEIER SSE DEAE APNE feovoETEMNOS ESRTE A «NS REE

42, Identity-51, who during the period gune te November 1961, had

 

 

 

 

 

been serving as a link to... now established a
contact with Identity-54, 4 resident of { who claimed to be a
disillusioned counter-revolutionary. -As acu o Identity-54%, she

used Identity-53. "As far as the records, gnow, no results were ever
~obtained from this connection. a. :

SIA AE ERED,

i coe - . 7
tg 643. Identity-14 defected during this period, as did Identity-57,
J _}whom AMFAUNA-1 had recruited and was

CT wen AREA REARS

 

 

 
 

 

 

  
 
  

2.

CONTINUATION OF cussarnienT oH
BIsPATCH SECRET

 

   

UFGA=4703 .

   

 

pera FAUNA-1 seems to have an excellent network
wit

It is supposet that AMBOA-1 is handling the two( new pilots)

AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both «mployees 7
first made their appearance durin; this period, =
and continues to use his own S/W vommunications to JMWAVE)

found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are known to
AMFAUNA-5, and it is. believed that sh» is nrobebly the cutout to them.

graph 1Se above,

86, Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned briefly as active
during the peried from December 1961 to Ap:i1 1962. The former had
been a contact of AMRUNG- })pl and seams to have gone into hiding; in any

ease, nothing m orted on him, The latter was an agent
of AMPAUNA-1 in in January 1962 he was in niding and
awaiting a chancé ‘

46. AMFAUNA-11 remained active durin, this period, anc AMFAUNA-9,
10, and 12 ware added to the operation. Fer descriptione of these
agents, see paragraph 15 above.

47. This phase of ‘the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in. Chart
D. The following people participating in this phase were separated
from the operation by known causes: :

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-1l ,

(2) Identity-12.
b. By asylum or defection:

(1) Identity-14

(2) Tdentity-55

(3) Identity-56_

(4) Identity-57.
Production: : ;

4g. JMWAVE records do not-.show the tocal number of AMFAUNA
reports disseminated since January 1561. The figure is at least fifty,
and is believed to be nearer one hunired, if the present frequency. of
dissemination can be a criterion. I: content they have leaned :
heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, militia movemants,
location of artillery, and aviation matters. There has been a more
recent tendency toward political and economic information, which is
being encouraged by JMWAVE. Evaluations of his production are lacking.

. Security Analysis:

49, The possibility that AMFAUNA-1 is a double agent is consider-
ed remote. His successful LCFLUTTER, the fact (or what is believed to
be the fact) that his close friend and fellow agent cusP-i) was
executed, and AMFAUNA-l's owi character and background, alljargue
against the proposition that he was originally dispatched by the G-2.
However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER carilbe beaten.; Also
that there is no proof, other. than the fact that AMCU fa ee is
in the JMWAVE area and behaving like a widow, that ANCUSP-1)jwas really
executed. There is documentary evidence plin the formolof a letter
written by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-1's) widow, that he was held
in prison in March and April 1961. However, the person who identified

and<buried the body was AMFAUNA-l's father, who was subsequently :

n Cuban @viation but how it works remains a matter foncgonjecture.
Fe) .

se

cen ace” SR See wt ee eater gen A one one

    
  

STIONS,

  

trod pema

GARD REPRODU

:
Ps

 
14-00000 -
BONTINUATION CP

SERIO NN TO a :
moa eisparent “  UPGA<490300 | s

vious History of the.Operation - June to November 1961:

          

  

 
   
   

   

 

32. In the period beginning June 1961, AMFAUNA@1 first began

king regular uge of AMFAUNA-2)ol He needed contact with his

fen angauna- lop were in asylum in various Western, embassies, and
°

  
  
   

with AMPAUNA-Dlopenly visiting her husband) AMCUTLER-l)Ghe)gvas a
or the job.0OwWith the departure of Identities 29

ANFAUNA- 2) as cutout ns a ;
ent order

  
 

    

 

 
  

 

     

antity= and then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 tlso sarved as cutout to
antity-"§ about whom nothing more is known than his names ¢ t

   

   

~

34%. AMFAUNA~1 developed another conta : Jurin
this period ingthe person of Identity-52, a
and alformer lieutenant \in the Rebel Army. @Atity-sT ie =

and Idéntity-21 on 27 October 1961, and then remained in touch through
Identity-51. A few weeks later Identity-52 was arrested.

38. At some time during the period June to. November 1961, AMFAUNA~}
began collaborating with AMBOA-1. The origin of this collaboration is ~
not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1.
AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has
a channel of S/W communication, to KUBARK, and that she had claimed to
be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-1)?l AMFAUNA-1 asked JMWAVE to
confirm her bona fides, and this was done. AMBOA-Lethen began working

[i788 AMFAUNA~1's cutout to Identity-14, afCubana Airlines pilot} who in |
: gun was receiving information from Ideimtity 40, an employee Of Cubana
some time prior to November 1961, Identity-"0 wae fired from her job
nd held for interrogation by the G-2. ©

rk

&

     
   

36. During the same period AMPAUNA-1 added the following new
ents:

a. AMPAUNA-23 (for deserijtion see paragraph lSe$ above).

b. AMFAUNA~5 (for description sep paragraph ide above).

c. Identity-41, a person who allegedly was collaborating

with several other clandestine g:oups. He had two sub-agents

in thef Ministry of Public vorks}g identities 42 and 43. No

production has been attributable to these people. 5
. a.

 

 

 

ee
a. Identity-46, al
le to obtain | between uf
Nothing ever Came "OF this contact. ;
e c

e. Identity-47, i

 

 

 

0 optained some order Or Dattie
er, apparently on an unwitting basis. In

August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she

was a strong Communist and had given him information which he

 

 

 

 

considered of doubtful reliability. 3 ;
f. Identity-48, a foreman(] }ho provided
some order of battle information.
A g. Identity-49,( ‘108

 

d . : :
Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA~1] never mentioned
‘+ “him again.

 
re a

  
 

CLARIFICATION

 

SECRET ‘ UFGA=4703 —

 

+time, aa did ANRUNG-1) a]
[7 28.9[ To support the activities of AMFAUNA-1, anCuTLe

of

ey ° R=l,) and
cusP-2) it was agreed that JMWAVE would deposit $1,000 monthly inte
1

.
dh

ti oqal bank account of AMCUSP-) and the latter would provide the
~gquivalent in Cuban pesos from hi@lown resources inaide Cuba.

o : :
26, an€usp-) and agureh-d continued to buey themselves with
i pieparations for eupporting the April invasion. They contacted ° &
entity-2r who, at their request, provided cover ag (travelling drug
saleamen\for Identity-19 and also for Identity-20 who was intended to
be a radio operator for Identity-23. -Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all.
éhese people, he was compartmented from these)operationa to some
tent, so that after the arrest of aMcusP-1) and the escape of
SJ CUTLER-D he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them,

 

a ol
os 27. AMCUTLER-1) and AMFAUNAv1, working together, h i to '
de’

ith Identity-33, a Cuban Army ofSicer stacioned at the
“4 ge, and discussed foe ns for supporting the invasion. G i
‘a oI liso contacted Tdentity-35, the } yy
pass and arrang i ao,”

 

 

nged fon its surrender, using Identity-
aad oO 2 as a cutout. He had another agent
uited AMFAUNA-1l1l, an

m the base, Id ibang d_ already reer
e—employee of the b {
: ° oO
26. Gs 18 warcti962) AMCUSP™1)and AMRUNG-2) were arrested by the
G-2 While WNolding a clandestine meeting. At first this was not

regarded as too serious a matter. The G-2 had broken into the meeting
only after having been alerted by the suspicious behavior of a woman 9a
AMCUTLER-})

 

 

 

 

 

lookout, and it was believed that they had no real evidence.
reds lgain to Cuba on

ame to the JMWAVE area on'(3 April 196).and rest
€o Aprilstill optimistic that AMCUSP-1)and AMRUNG-J) would either be
oneyof the other of

réleased or could be helped to escape.° However y> (
CUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) who

prisoners appa entlyfconfessed and implicated AM
were executed Gn 20 April) With the wave of err ying the
April 17 invasion, (CUT L r- took asylum in the mbassy and
AMPAUNA-1 went temporarilPlinto hiding.
i
{
t

‘y7i 29. «On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending
“'fdentities 24, 25, 26° and 27° to collect order of battle information
nh Matanzas. Identities 26 and 27 returned ts Havana to report.
‘dentity-25 remained in Matanzas, and [dentity-24 was caught by the G-2.

   

a nie Se

ouCTIO

30. In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMFAUNA-1 that some kind of

conspiratorial activity was going on in the heme of AMCOG-+2. He
—drranged to meet her through Identit.-30 whom ne thereafter used aaa

cutout to her.

| me : :
E 31. This phase of the AMFAUNA wperation is diagrammed in Chart B.
he following people participating in this phase were separated from the

eperation by known causes:

roa fem

a, By arrest and execution:

QQ) asfeuse-25 at.
(2) AMRUNG-3 of

AbEANUAE GAD REPRO

b. By arrest and detention:

-— (1) Identity-24
. (2) Identity-28

c. By asylum or escape to the U.S.:

(1) AMCUTLER-1) 94
(2) Identity-23

 
14-00000

    

   

    
 

UFGA$4703_

CLARBIFICATION

SECRET!

 
  
  
   

CONTINUATION OF
- GPATCH

(2) AMPAR 12: former Ghior engineer of the 06
Office of Kirporte) he was recruited by Havana
Station in 1960, and has been corresponding with
JMWAVE by S/W.

 
    

   

       
     
    

(3) AMFAUNA-21: alchier inspector of mechanics?
for Cubéna Airline He has stated hia willingness
to @abotage air traffic), Dept hia precise contribution
to AMFAUNA-1's operations is not known,

     
      
 

(4) AMPAUNA#=221 A chief GF electr-cal inatrumente of
‘ for Cubana “AirTines Nothing more ia known about thia
“jo man.

wa

      
 

Brother-in-lau of (orrauna-s>

   

(8) AMPAUNA}7

   
 

f. AMFAUNA-6: A support agent. AMPAUNA-1 has written
that she h@€s no access to information of interest, but ia an
intelligent and brave female whom he uses for cever and to
secure overt information.

    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
  

g- AMFAUNA-7: An ‘old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his |
brother AMEUTLER- Tyo| He works closely with AMPAUNA-8 and@
formerly was AMFAUNA~l's cutout to

 

 

 

 

 

h.. AMFAUNA-8: An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and nie 06
brother AMCUTLER-1 0] He has a contact in the Cnterior Miniatry)
and works Closely with AMFAUNA-7.

. of oS

i. AMPAUNA-9:

, 2 A rormer( if or, a
he secures information of gene T ‘om (

travelling throughout Cuba,

|
{
j. AMFAUNA=10110 A widow of a bank mployee, she has 4
contacts inf and in the z
She is alsoj and has provided

ag RG 9s HPA a nes EE RR SE LS BE ER MEARS GS TED OE AT SO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information “Gf Wheréabouts and indoct?S nation.
ee, c

k. AMFAUNA-11: An employee of thd
and the wife of a Communist member of th Oe
| » she has reported polit: elligence.

In March 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported that sha was under surveillance
and that he was therefore avoiding her.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

within the

 

i. foment He obtains sotorma lige trem eontacts

 

m. AMFAUNA-13: Ani company employee with
contacts in the Cuban Gov né has reported information
@ on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

Background and Motivation: &
—— - Q

AMFAUNA-1 is a Go-year-oldJCuban male, born in Cuba of
arents. He has tried his hand at various kinds of work S

CAs Tuding the Gmport business, journalism (he was once editor of@

: rario de la Marina) and insurance) He has also ventur rg into politics,
waving Been a candidate (of the Autentico ring the
panish Civil War he was a member of the a ing
World War II, until the entry of my Unite tates, Re was a &

12 5 EE ROT 80 ARI TPT RTS COI EI SA DUE REE A th HE Te AURA PR ACID PGT ONS, SENET

 

 

 

The JMWAVE case officer W é

trained AMFAUNA~1 in tradecraft in“March 1961 (see UFGA-124%7 of 10 f

pril 1961) observed that he already had a grounding in clandestine $

2chniques. The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-1 as "a .

py }easant, intelligent fellow" and "the~most astute member of the team" : Oe

comprising himself, aCe} and AMCUTLER-1. al t —
a : :

 

 
14-00000

CONTINUATION OF Poke 70
BISPATCH

To
3

    

   

 

oO .
children, all atill in Cubaf{as of ugcon 1961) However, it ia noted
that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them
is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different
addresses. It is ascumed that this is hie third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1
has never mentioned her in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also
assumad that she has gone the way of her two predecassors.

ry meres t

t [s)
| ‘ol 18. AMCUTLER-1 estioned on this point, said that his
| brother is lrving in with his present wife, that he hag been
“ipcrmarnied only once bef6Fe]-and has only one child from the first marriage 4
Mis information is not considered definitive, because the last point
( ih directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-l's PRQ Part I which he wrote him-
if, but it is included here for what it aay be worth. (CUTLER=1)9/
“added that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents
except what ie considered nermal and acceptable by Cuban standards.
sif 19. The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an
adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although "anti-

ommunism" may be an overworked expression, it ply in
‘icecthe case of AMPAUNAe]..if his former mambership nd the
. an be taken as indi . neluded

SNOUT VS te LOSS OT ht forwarding buajness)which started out
omisingly in 1959 but folded up after a yearYof CASTRO's revolution-
y government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist

 

 

 

 

 

 

“ih January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 i ected
nw by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment
OP Bete ot / TG
\ec=Control ,

20, %It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives
great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime.
His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work.
This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have heen
many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 te do
something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is
believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation ~ January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA~1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against
the CASTRO regime as early as(December 196304 As with so much else in
4 __|this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already
7 naa an understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty
cihtvbars 6 In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-
ae) an MAR coordinator from Matanzas} who had been introduced to,.
im dentity-29 by one of the members of her group, Tdentity-28, ¢Identity-
ai.in turn brought in Identity-26,(@ fellow MAR coordinator .)p
vi Ard

  

jAvvogether with ANCUSP-}) and AHMCUTLER-1)and looked up their old friend
AMJAG-4, who at that time was “heavily” engaged in work with the
,yesistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer
who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many
resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through
AMRUNG~ 2 who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field.
Also imlthe JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23
om they met and with whom they were later to work. |

ol : Fa)
0% 23, AMEFAUNA-1, an€urL$r-2) and AMCUSB

nuary 196]\(C "They dispatched Ide Identity-
P.Identity-18 _yand Identity=37 to

--and AH UTLER; 1) went to Cienfuégos with Identity-19 to make contacts
“with insurgén vee

: | 22. In January1961, AMFAUNA-Wlcame legally to the United States

      
  

 

 

 

SO NA RRR GD oA ND SEES TPT I
  
 
 
  
 

cy

“GoNTUATION OF
GiSPATCH  -

 
  

UFGA=4703 *

SECRET |

     
   
 
  
     

  

- skillful “in tha practice of security. He has built a falee identity
which he use@ wherever posaible in his operational centacts, he is
uaually selective and cautious in his choices of collaborators, he

: takes pains te check on the security of his eub-agents, and he uses
a@ syetem of cutouts for much of his work. .

 
 

6. Somerof AMFAUNA=1's older collaborators know him by true name, |
but wher Ver, pageible he introduces himself to new contacts by the - *&
| name of ("Jul OJOM\o Evidently he is now living the part-of (Julio 27

* ROJO jto such an exteng that he has in effect a double identity. In
one Of his S/W measagés he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-] be warned .
; . not to reveal that (“Ju onde in Cuba. Since AMFAUNA-1 is in Cuba .

. legally, and all his f Yiland friends know it, this can only mean
‘that she should not reve that AMFAUNA=-1 and (“Julio ROJO") arao

identical. ‘dot 291930 pssudon ed i Sub, Jo
/ Fe In: recruiting sub-agents, AMFAUNS=1 relies primarily on his

own judgment and intuition. If he approves of a person, he will
recruit him. “However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in
granting his approval. He has reported two persons whom he does not.
completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink.
too much and ave indiscreet. For two other examples, AMBOA=-1 and
LITAU-& approached him separately and revealed their relationship with

' KUBARK, hoping to collaborate.with hims AMFAUNA-1 treated them both ott | ce
with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAVE. He hae submitted.” ' 1.8 -
the names of other contacts for checking. In the case of AMFAUNA=4, (6 5
whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit
it, he put his misgivings in writing: "Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged
for a personal interview, taking utmost precautions, since we have

- had sad previous experiences with members of CASTRO's armed forces."

     
   

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
     
 
      
 
  
  
    
    
     
    
      
 
 
  

   
 
 

   

8. Once he has recruited a sub-agent, AMFAUNA=1 manages to keep fo
an independent eye on the former's security. On more than one occasion
“he has reported that one of hie sub-agents is under G-2 surveillance,

and that for the time being he is staying away from him. .

“9, In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his
security precautions. On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity
1 had been caught, but that he was in no danger because he had been
compartmented from her.°'Thisyc atmentati ig achieved by the use ~
of fi e cutouts: "AME AU 2 S AMPAUNAS 3, ANFAGNANE AMBOA=1, and
A=-5, who maintain contact for AMFAUNA-1 with most if not all of
his subeagents. Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in. direct contact with
AMFAUNAS 7 through 13, may be in error on this point. It would be
more in keeping with AMFAUNA-1's known modus operandi for him to have
cutouts between himself and these sub-agents, ‘If there is a cutout or
|- cutouts here, their identity is not yet known. There may also be an
| unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4, ~

ictal ts BE ist le a ae

 

   
      
      
    
        
       
       
    
      
    
 
   
   
       
 
       

10. Except for AMFAUNAs4, all the above-mentioned cutouts are
women. Two of his support agents, including his mail drop, are also vt
| ‘women. AMFAUNA-1 has’ not been explicit on this point, but it is pep wf

. believed that he shares his favors between them. “If 80, he has the”
best of cover for his relations with them. It also clarifies the :
| otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping in a
‘different bed edch night. This practice must certainly reduce the  .
possibility that the €-2 will pick him up for routine questioning. :

 

. A
Communications:

 

‘11. The bulk 6f AMFAUNA-1's communications come via S/W. His
méssages to JMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by

, AMPAN=2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's, i dressed to
AMFAUNA-14, AMFAUNA-1 can also use for sending
documents and other meverial unsuit ni personal
by contact with two of the officers 2. gO either
bring it to the JMWAVE area and ‘mail 1 or ‘carry it

ee as ee rr

 
  

 

 

     
 
CTC

 

   

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
    

Lt att f
Action wensieds

Lode Traces on AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, ident
POAs ‘on AMFAUNAS 2, 2 4%, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.
: neon
2. Ascertain uhether AMFAUNA=3 is of operational interest to
ODIBEX (see paragraph 15b).

 

New.

3. - Forward evaluations of documentary intelligence provided by.
' AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56). . -

—

Summary . : -) fe,
oe 4. AMFAUNA-2 is a Cuban national who was .recruited and trained in

 

   
 
  

ned legally to Cubal|
Since then he has bu a née

ss k 140 S/W messages, from which upwards ©)
. ty inte. ligence disseminations have been made. He is highly
‘. motivated for his work and under effective control by JMWAVE. The
quality of his production is, for-the most part, very good and improving}
although*he is at times distracted by an understandable interest in
para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however, .
he has been known to. take unnecessary risks. There is no reason to
think that he is under hostile control nor that the operation is likely’
in the future to be turned against us. There De however, the real.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
 

risk that he may one day fa}l into a G-2 trap baited with the Escambray
guerrillas. If so, this Will be due to the fact that contact with the
guerrillag was his first assignment and, although he has been re-

_ directed * o intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that

e has led in his primary mission. This, plus the fact that he a

  

“Sivident believes that the end is now very close, is apt to make him. .

‘| vuin gs 1 f oa f the E "
gvuiner e@ an appea rom the ‘heroes: ° e “TEN _
if Hi ; id

   
   
  

yO :
@Present Status of the Operation .- Modus Operandi:

 

-$. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinarily

: ttachments: A-D, Inc1 N> .
. . Charts A,B,C,D iy ae “Fi : cs COPY

94 Attch. E + Identities: BECAME BUNAG 2072). -
| “eattch. F - Identities, om

 
  

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND RUMBER

   
  
  

    

            
       
   

 
 
  

fe

 

 

UFGA=4703

ar
FG b - Sof3
201- 291980 :

 
 

2 SLM ame aB eHE L

4340
14-00000

 

    
  

 

   
     
 
     
     
     
   
 
 
      
    
       
   
 
     
       
     
     
     
 
     
 
   
   
 
        
         
     
       
      
 
   
         
   
   
     
       
   
    

  

ob

13. hird communication: obnanner” existe in the wook1y tolophene

: conversation (betweon) AMCU UTLER-1Yand his ae AUNA= 240] It is nseful ~ (
. for passing signals already prearranged by d for confirming that
AHFAUNA=1 1 fs atill at liberty. If he is ever arrested, the news will |
probably come firat by this meandgs

Finances: “ ee oo

18, Expenses of the joperation are §330 per month. The money is j-
given sonthly to Identity=3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area. Identity-}
3, upen receipt of the dollars, notifies identity-1 in Havana who in

_ turn pays Cuban peses to AMFAUNA-1. Identity-4 follows the eame pro-
cedure with Identity-2. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money

by S/W. : .

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA
net, including AMCOG-2 and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own
_ independent connections to JHWAVE, have to soma extent joined forces.
with AMFAUNA-1. For the identities of AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, see
A Attachment E, forwarded under separate cover,

  

woe

  

  

ae ANGAUNA-2) AMFAUNAe1's sister-in-law, she formesly
served as his contact to members of his net(in asylum in theo
various embassies) and now serves as his cutout to at least
the following:

(1) AMCOG-2: . She first appears in“ AMFAUNA-1's
correspondence in his S/W message No. 14 dated
19 May 1961, where he mentions that she
link to a radio station operated by th J
organization. Nothing ever came of thi
communications channel, but AMCOG-2 remained in
contact with AMFAUNA-1, helping him arrange asylum
for b some of his communica-  @&
tion 4 AMFAUNA=1 reported 4 :

In’ Nis s7wmeéssage No. 21, that

AHCOG.? knew ew him only by his alias @ulio ROJO}07In
his message No. 118, dated June 1962, he reported
that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true
name to AMCO0G=2, For a further discussion of AMCOG-2,
and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-1 see
paragraph 56 below.

ol oo ol
(2) avfeauinni> ‘She is the secretary of @NCOG-2))
: with whom she 6 done clandestine work. She now
~ serves AMFAUNA-1 as an accommodation address: and as
a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18 -
April.1962 included the name of a Communist nurse |
who has allegedly come to the United States with
the mission of infiltrating a counter-revolutionary
group. this information from a
docto She o is AMFAUNA-1's
ZU ol

(3) AMFAUNA-15: She is a relative of AMPAUNA-1") :

and. a Friend, of AMCOG-2,:- She is-algo the wife of 4 Coe

¢ fit AUNA-17) &hd a friend of AMFAUNA-16 who is now ba,
O° imprisoned on the Isle of Pines) and sends her . ‘ Pai. ran

 

 

7.

 

 
  

_more likely that she remains hia cutout tof]
who are known to be still reporting?

 

 

GeePATON OvREECA Aino MURDER

UFGA-4703 ~~

    

NTNVATION OF
+ GISPATEH

 

 

b. AMFAUNAs3: AMFAUNA-1l's first mention of her
is in hic S7Wmedsage No. 127 dated 4 May 1962. She hae
provided information on (militar: astand has a
trusted contact (Identity 7 4She_also was
AMFAUNA-1's cu

ne 1967 ehe was approached b = :
claimed to be the naw contact to thd peanization,
(See also paragraph 58 below.) On 15%Mare 62 AMFAUNA=3
was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their
Operation CASINO. A negative trace reply was given at that
time. Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX
has a valid prior claim on this agent.

}

   
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Ge AMFAUNA-4) He is a high-ranking Cuban Army officer
who has provided AMFAUNA-1 with documzntary information which
ought to be of some value, although JMWAVE has not yet seen
it, it having gone to Headquarters vial through the <“
channel described in paragraph 11 abovel®@He“alsao claims to f
be receiving information from Identity-9 and Identity-10.

_AMFAUNA-1 was introduced to AMFAUNA-4)by AMCOG-2 who in turn
was introduced te him by Identity-13.0l For a further
discussion of this matter, see paragraph 56 below.

: ad. AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-l's contact with

this agent, who has also been recruited independently by

JMWAVE, is uncertain. He first mentioned her in October &
1961 as his cutout to Identity-14,

who had formerly been a contact of ‘AMCUSP-I and who subsequent-
ly defected. AMFAUNA-1's last mention of her was on 15 .
November when he reported that she had given him a map show-

ing artillery installations on the south coast of Las Villas.

It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her,

but since he has not reported having done so it is considered Wa

 

 

 

 

(1) AMFAUNA-18: He was recruited in March 196?,

 

 

 

and has provided AMFAUNA-1 with 2d
and the

he has FSC Is known
how AMFA' ~1 First met AMFAUNA=18, and it is

possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him.
It is only surmised that AMBOA-l, is his cutout to
him.

£2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruitec at the same
time aS AMFAUNA-18. Althcugh AMFAUNA-1 did not
explicitly say so, it can be inferred that he and
AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

e. AMFAUNA-5: AMFAUNA-1 first reported her as an agent
in September I91.é She is the sister-in-law of AM AUNA-23 4
former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-1 as °
early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for try-
ing to leave Cuba illegally.zUsne has been the source of .
information on Cuba and is the tout to a group
of people. employed at 2df1t is believed

-that the identities of all these people have not yet been
reported, but they seem to be effective. On 29 May 19621
AMFAUNA-1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet ‘plane

and forwarded the passenger list which he
nts had obtained clandestinely. Following
are the persons with whom AMFAUNA-5 is known to be in contact.

 

°°
(1) am€auna-20) her husband. AMFAUNA-1 has written
that he has broken personal contact with this man,

“A007 A AO ABE UES EN SS PRORATED a TY PT IEEE SESE GP STIR SNTIARAN A ona er

 
