14-00000

SECRET

it in New Orleans - must he considered of

 
   
  
 
  
 

great significance in the light of the
pathological evolution of oswanp's passive/
aggressive makeup after lils attempt to kill
General WALKER early in April 1963 and his
identification with Fidel castro and the
Cuban revolution which is directly trace-
able as far back as his Marine corps.
service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's
warning and threat, given to ap corres-
pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether
there was any formal mandate, or even
security service’ contact with GSWALD

by the Cubans or the Russians - was an act
of singular irresponsibility and under no
circumstances was excusable aa retorsion
for what the Cuban emigres were doing during
the summer of 1963.

CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA,
EARLY 1959 (?)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion

of germinal significance to any roview of the background of
Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO'S Cuba. DELGADO was probably the closest peer group

1

sECcHET

et en ee a ne enemas
ane _
14-00000

t . ’
ow ; SECRET.

‘member to OSWALD during his specialist training period
at Bl Toro Marine Corps Base December 1958 - September 1959.
The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:
: : : “OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in
touch with Cuban diplomatic officials in
this country, which DELGADO at first took
to be ‘one of his lies, but later
believed. '"2
10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says.a lot more of
possible operational significance than is reflected by the
. language of the report, and its implications do not appear °

to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,
on caer cma DE BREAST MITT OO NAY teatime aT Pema?

3 the record of the beginning of OSWALD's, relationship with
the Cubans starts with a question mark. ,

Ti. the perioa was one of transition in U.S. — Cuban
relations after CASTRO's takeover. OSWALD, and DELGADO at
the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-
larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-

fied:

" wee IT didn't know what to tell him, so

I told him the best thing that I know was to

 

2

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President John F. KENNEDY (Washington, 1964), hereafter
cited as Report, p. 687.

8
SECRET
14-00000

- “ ¢ ’ @
a SECRET

™~

‘—'-- =-grow until there has been a full disclosure
: _—— ==

a Te EN iy,

by these governments of all elements of

PL SALTED STAD NEE ETTORE OUI

OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union|
and his contacts in Mexico City. The
nent em

Warren Commission report should have left a
wider "window" for this contingency. That,

. indeed, was the opinion at the working level,
particularly in the counterintelligehce com-

_ ponent in ‘the CIA in. 1964. As was indicated
by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the

‘ Warren Commission, CIA would continue to
xegard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

still open. . oy

     

G.- In the absence of additional or new
elements of "credible" evidence, there are
"nuances" in the record that emerge as note-
worthy, in the light of other conclusions.
These are reviewed and summarized below, item-
by-item.

d. CASTRO's warning and threat of

7 September 1963 - if OSWALD did indeéd read

a eae aaa aaa,
Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.
KENNEDY. Hearings Before the President's Commission on the
Assassination of President KENNEDY (Washington, 1964),
hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol. V., pp. 120 ~ 129. See
especially p. 124 ~""Mr&. Hélms: ‘Yes. I would assume

the case could never be closed.'" Fa

® 6 -

SECRET

ee ee rea cones tne a eg eee rt nena eure eee pep eer
14-00000

ft ° . °
SECRET

“Tof the review, admittedly heavily using the 20---20 quality

of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary:

 

a. There is no increment of credible => © Cc.
en ene
evidence, applying this phrase stfictly, of
neers TCC A CR IT LC

Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence

 

ox ‘security service involvement in the as-
‘Soeroeentrt tint oanarnee Raine pean pene oh TENET AAA TT TIE ee ETAT OE
sassination to what was developed and con-

Ser ease arn aateeatatE eet aE Pant eT EAN STATO II AE TIL ET RICE ITT TE ELOISE
sidered by the Warren Commission and its
staff. fhe Commission's finding that .
Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of
‘President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did

“them in alone and of his own determination
stands. a, oo
b. "Credible evidence" that would
upset or significantly modify this judgement
did (and does) not exist in Washington. But
ton eeaanenmnemenenaianmeibemmmmmeeannen ncaa eens
such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or
‘oemuneerereneceevarsngnttrsnteeranarnttenascmnhgasinintndnsanatacnerndevisna sera
Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the Warren
Commission were minimal in quantity and
quality, designed to cover up any admissions
of knowledge of, ox connection with, OSWALD
H which might be related directly or indirectly
with the assassination. Therefore, the belief
IRR T 7
that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/or
nn ennai .
DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and
5

SECRET
ft
SECRET wee.

“Bitterly denouncing what he called
recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

Pie are prepared to bn.

aight them and answer in kind. U.S. leaders

tory, Castro said:

     
     
 

   

should think that if they are aiding terror-

ist plans to eliminate Cuban leaders, they

    

  

themselves will not be safe.'
* ... World affairs ... seemed to be
entering a more peaceful climate a few days
ago, but now this trend has changed with
. , attacks.

*'The U.S. is always ready to negotiate
and make promises which later it will not honor.
This has happened to promises made during the
October crisis. They have been broken. as can
be seen with new attacks. -

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

exisis than October's ...'"

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 3 September,
used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference
to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real
significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated re~

write (9 September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted

any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO's remarks.

® 7 -

3
SECRET

fe atte rane
14-00000

«

¢ . oo °
: SECRET

"~(®he’ Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed_the HARKER

story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the
paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content
of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po-
litical aspects ~ in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER
elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece.

7. There is no evidence in the files on(the xewwepe>

‘assassination)that this CASTRO interview was considered in

following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission

a its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed
eadquarters attentio: £ter
the Dallas killing. More important, the interview appears
to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consid-
exation of xelations with CASTRO's Cuba. ‘There is no evidence

s eennattieaten eee naar eee ee TY
in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission

staff Itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview
ee RNR I NE NSTI R TTT CLT LALIT CTE LET OLN AA OIL BOSSE L NOTE TA SE IB EE LILI NLC

in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no
stated by any other Cuban leader beforé the assassination.

. 8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's
request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD'’s activity on the
assumption that as an avid newspaper reader ~- which we know |
from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the .

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

. 4
SECRET
14-00000

to his and the Commission's needs and then decide how
much will go into the classified record.

Ld
.. Raymond G. Rotca

Attachment

SECRE &
 

104-10055-10000 ( (
" ° 5 . - ee eS .

_ - SECRET

_ RETURN TO CIA
_ Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

23 May 1975

¥

MEMORANDUM FOR! “DC/OPS ww

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the
oe Lee Harvey OSWALD Fille Regarding

Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban

Involvement in the .

John F, KENNEDY Assassination

1. The attached review and summary was. written at
the express request of Mr. David W. Belin as a follow- ..
up to Question 3 of his letter to the Agency of .
15 April 1975. Se

. 2. The yesults - as I hava already told him - add...
nuance, not evidence, to what the Warren Commission and .
its staff had laid before them in 1964 on this subject.
fhe results of the review are stipulated in paragraph 8
o£ the Attachment. There-seemed to be no reason to...

' attach copies of the case reports from. the file to this..

’ summary. These can be made available promptly, however,
on request. This summary- does not deal ,with press,.
magazine and books that dealt with the subject during -
the period after the assassination...

3. My recommendation is to do. with this. paper. as :
we did with the earlier one. requested by Mr.. Belin on ~ -
the unidentified man: let him read the entire summary.
and then decide how much of it, if. any, is pertinent

SECRET

E__IMPDET EL

BSSO4

BY. oss43)
 

SECRET

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding Allega-
tions of CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the
John F. KENNEDY Assassination

REFERENCE : ‘Letter by David W. Belin to
. Mr. E. Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,

paragraph 3 (Regarding Public Statement
by CASTRO, etc.), attached

BACKGROUND

1. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,
Fidel CASTRO appeared at_a Brazilian Embassy reception in
Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to an informal
interview by the Associated Press correspondent,

eee

Daniel HARKER. ; . 4
2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,

8 September, and was in print throughout the country on

Monday, 9 September. There can be no question from the

facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

expected, and his agreement to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

message on the record in the United States.
ener RTO

 

%

SECRET |
14-00000

reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing

the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in

CASTRO's “message" was significantly modulated.

t : ’
i SECRET

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of
topics but dealt principally with American political
leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex~
coriated in extraordinaril is) j ion :

8 TT
(" ... KENNEDY is S.cretinz™>" ... the BATISTA of his

times ... the most opportunistic American President of

:
i

all time ...").

4. The interview also contained an uncomplimentary

the replay by United States newspapers like the

New York Times and Washington papers, with a result that

5. In New. Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided
until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story
appeared in the principal morning paper,_.the Times-Picayune,
on Monday, 9 September;—page-7, under a three-column head~
line: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says U.S. Leaders
Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under. the
HARKER by-~line: :

"Havana (AP) ~ Prime Minister

Fidel Castro said Saturday night: ‘U.S.

leaders would be in danger if they helped

in any attempt to do away with leaders of . .

Cuba. '
> oe

SECRET
