74-00000

(

t

 

6. Ms. Bustos said that when the report on Oswald came
in from Mexico she did the name trace on him. She took action
to notify the Navy, the FBI, and the field. She states that the
station was told to notify the Legal Attache and the three Military
Attaches. In notifying the ''Pentagon" she said that she asked

‘for a photo of Oswald from his military file which might be used .

in his identification against photography coverage in Mexico City.
She said there was no answer from the ''Pentagon. '' In response
to our questions she stated that this would mean his military
service, which probably was the Navy as Oswald was a Marine.
She said that she waited for comments and reaction but that there

“was no response. By way of explanation she observed that lots

of people were in contact with the Soviet and Cuban Embassies
in Mexico City and noresponse at that time might not be unnatural, |
She cannot recall if there was a follow up. —

7. She stated that initially our telephone taps in Mexico City
were unilateral, bearing the cryptonym LIFEAT. Later, joint
telephone taps were established (she could not recall the date);
it came to be known as LIENVOY. The LIENVOY LP had about
30 lines, 15 each for CIA and Liaison. Most of the embassy
lines were switched to LIENJOY, but LIFEAT continued to have
houses for LP's "all over town.'! The lines in LIENVOY were
tapped from central, which Ms. Bustos sees as indicating that
there was probably no standdown on the Cuban Embassy so far
as technical reasons are concerned. She felt that the LP case
officer managed the distribution of coverage so that there would

‘be no duplications in the lines covered. She could not remember

the identity of the person but she said that Win Scott read everything.
Ms. Bustos stated that there was photo surveillance on both the
Soviet and the Cuban Embassies. The Cuban photo surveillance
project (LIONION) was a joint operation. oe

8 Ms. Bustos said that Ann Goodpasture handled the
material from LIFEAT and she recalled that a person named ©
Anderson handled LIENVOY. Ms. Goodpasture did the history
of the Mexico Station and would be very familiar with all of it,
As Ms. Bustos did not go to Mexico until 1967 her personal
recollections are a mix of the period commencing when she
arrived PCS and her knowledge from the Headquarters desk,
 

‘rg 10096-40310

ey

 

 

2 pec 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Interview with Charlotte Bustos~Videla

1, John Leader, “Ted Anderson (O/S) and I met with Ms, a

Bustos yesterday to discuss her recollections that might bear
“on the Oswald matter. . ts

 

2. She tated that she has not yet been contacted by 1 Mr.

Kessler. She and her husband have arranged for an unlisted

: . telephone and a post office box to protect their privacy. If
- contacted she will decline to have any discussions with Mr..- -

Kessler, Contrary to my understanding she is returning to
Headquarters Pcs and will be here for some time.

3. Ms, Bustos stated that the most important person. to. -

whom we can talk is Ann Goodpasture who has retired to Texas. | L
' She stated that Ms. Goodpasture was a case officer in the :

.

‘station; she "ran liaison;"' she handled sensitive things for the .
COS; and, after the assassination of President Kennedy she

“would have been the one to conduct the reviews at the station,

_ She was involved in the investigations of the Duran aspect of |
the matter (we do not know if Ms. Goodpasture is the person
‘interviewed by the Downing Committee investigators; she does |

not fit the description of a secretary). ee .
4. ‘The next person that she mentioned was 5 Milly 5 Rodriguez, ..

' She handled Tasaroff and the Soviet transcribers. -Ms. Bustos ;

feels that Ms, Rodriguez would be more informed on what ee, a

happened than Dave @eardon -sp ?).-

5. Ms. Bustos stated that she got involved from the Cuban’ |
angle, not from the Soviet point of view. It is her present re-
collection, contrary tojwhat we have been told, that the Cuban
tap was active at the time that Oswald visited Mexico: We dis--.
cussed the fact that he called the Soviet Embassy from the.Cuban”
Embassy and asked if this might explain her recollection that —
the Guban tap was active; she thought not. :

| SEf RE ‘ - * be remot Th "OPS 40
14-00000 .
: ‘ ( GL hae sd :
7? ‘oe . . toe (
{ oo . : . a

9, Ms. Bustos stated that Win Scott retired around 1969
and that the files were purged around 1970. She felt that all
permanent material was sent to Warrenton and would not be
at the station. She said that about 75% of all the paper was
destroyed but that the Oswald file would have been sent to
Washington. ,

’

10. Ms. Bustos has no real. recollections now about what
she did at the time of the Kennedy death. She recalls only the
Oswald 201-file. Her assumption is that a task force would ~
have taken over the matter, as was customary of LA Division

handling special matters which would take it out of the Mexican
. Branch, . ; . wee : oe

li. We agreed to get some information that might help Ms. ~
Bustos refresh her recollection and agreed on a later coritact.

: S. D. Breckinridge ~~
ec: O/S ae .
