13-00000

 

rejoins that they have the same problem; the "American" is still at the
Consulate; they cannot give him a transit visa unless he is assured of a Soviet
visa, even though he just wants to go to Cuba to wait there for his Soviet visa
to be granted. He does not know anyone in Cuba. They end the conversation on
this note. Silvia DURAN says that she will note this on his "card," and the
Soviet concludes by saying, "Besides he is not known." He excuses himself for
the inconvenience he has caused and Silvia DURAN says it is all right.

28 September - Silvie DURAN calls the Soviet Embassy from the Cuban
Consulate. She says that she has the American with her again. The Soviet
answering asks her to wait. When another Soviet takes up the phone, Silvia puts
the American on. The American tries to talk Russian to the Soviet who answers
in English. The American asks him to speak Russian. The American says that he
had been in the Soviet Embassy and spoken with the Consul, and that they hed
taken his address. The Soviet replies that he knows that. The American then
says, somewhat enigmatically: "I did not know it then. I went to the Cuban
Embassy to ask them for my address because they have it." The Soviet invites him

to stop by again and give them the address, and the American agrees to do so.
13-00000

 

(In this conversation, the American was speaking hardly recognizable Russian.)

As far as our records show, OSWALD did not phone the Soviet or Cuban
Embassies agein until Tuesday, 1 October 1963. The intervening days were a
Sunday and a Monday. The contents of his later calls seem to show he did not
contact the Soviets on kim those days.

1 October, 10:31 AM - A man calls the Soviet Military Attache in broken
Russian and says he had been at their place the previous Saturday (28 September)
and talked to their Consul. They had said they would send a telegram to Washington,

and he wanted to know if there were anything new. The Soviets ask him to call

 

another phone number and gives him 15-60-55, saying to ask for a Consul. .
1 October, 10:45 AM - (This is the phone call in which OSWALD used his
true name end vhich was therefore cabled to Washington on 9 October 1963.)
Lee OSWALD called the Soviet Embassy and snnounced his own name, saying he had
visited them the previous Saturday and spoken with a Consul. They had said they
a
would send a telegram to Washington, and he wanted to know if there were anything

new. He did not remember the name of the Consul. ‘The Soviet, who was Embassy

guard OBYEDKOV replied: "KOSTIKOV; he is dark." OSWALD replied: "Yes, my

 
13-00000

 

can grant him a transit visa and simply notify Cuban immigration authorities.

The Soviet first asks her to wait, and then she has to explain the whole thing
over again to another Soviet official, who takes her telephone number and
promises to call her back. Silvia DURAN concludes this cali by telling the
Soviet she herself has moved and gives her new address for the Soviet Embassy
pulletin. He asks her to phone (Sergey Semenovich) KUKHARENKO (Second Secretary
who puts out the Bulletin) to give him the new address and he asks who the Cuban
Cultural Attache is. Silvia DURAN gives the Attache's name as Teresa PROENZA and

adds her telephone number.

 

27 September, 4:26 PM - A Soviet official calls Silvia DURAN back and
tells her that the "American" had been to see the Soviet's and shown then a
letter from the Soviet Consulate in Washington indicating that he had been
waiting for visas for himself and his wife to go to the Soviet Union for a long
time, but that no answer had come from Washington, adding that the wait was
sometimes four or five months. The "American" had shown the Soviets a letter
showing he was a member of an organization in fever of Cuba and had claimed that

the Cubans could not give him a visa without a Russian visa. Silvia DURAN

  
  
1 3-00090

 

contents cabled to Washington, where they were disseminated to the White
House, the State Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

OSWALD's neme was not actually mentioned in these additional calls, but .
similarity of speech and various plain points of content link them to him. ‘These
calls are summarized below in chronological order. They cover the period from
27 September 1963 to 3 October 1963, the whole span of OSWALD's visit to Mexico
City as later learned from travel records.

27 September - A man phones the Soviet Military Attache and says he
needs a visa to go to Odessa. Man answering says he should call 15-60-55 and
ask for the Consul. Caller asks for the address, and it is given to him.
(There is no special reason for linking this call to OSWALD.)

27 September, 4:05 PM - The Cuban Consulate phoned the Soviet Consulate.
Silvia Duran, Mexican national clerk of the Cuban Consulate talked to a Soviet
official, saying that a male American citizen was at the Cuban Consulate asking

; ®
for a transit visa to pass through Cuba on his way to the Soviet Union. She

wents to know to whom he talked in the Soviet Consulate and who told him he would

heave no problem about it.

 
 

22 November 1963
As soon as the name of Lee OSWALD was mentioned in connection with the
assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November, CIA file checks were begun

and the Mexican station was asked by cable for more information on OSWALD.

Within a week, twenty-seven cabled reports had been sent to the White House, the

 

State Department, and the FBI.

CIA field stations provided many lists of information during the week

w£ after the assassination. The Mexico City Station researched its telephone

taps very thoroughly and came up with several more conversations probably

involving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this name; these connected him

also to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. Several Mexicans were arrested
and questioned about his activities, giving a good picture of what he was really
up to. A host of fabricators, some anonymous, bombarded overseas embassies
with spurious tips on the case, most of which we investigated. All of these were
a
soon discredited, but they are still coming in.
During this phase of our work, we served primarily in support of the FBI,

which was entrusted by the President with the major responsibility for the

Boo. |
investigation. The Department of Steté phatographed its entire file on

~
13-00090

 

 

OSWALD and passed them to us, and the FBI gave us a copy of the Soviet
Consular file on OSWALD which had been publicly given by the Soviet Ambassador
to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 December 1963, Deputy Attorney General
Katzenbach invited us to review the FBI's comprehensive report on the case to
make sure our sources were not jeopardized and that our information was correctly
quoted. We found the report highly interesting and no threat to our security, as
long as it was read only by the authorized investigative bodies.

After the first few days, the CIA investigation of the case was handled

at Headquarters by a steff usually charged wk with investigation and analysis of

the most important security cases, and by officers and analysts of our Western

Hemisphere Division.
Reporte from Mexico
As soon as our Mexico City Station realized that Lee OSWAID was the prime
suspect, it began re-screening all the written telephone transcripts in its
*
files m covering the Soviet Embassy for the pertinent period. The actual tapes

were also reviewed, but many of them had been erased after the normal two weeks

wait. Several calls believed to involve OSWALD were discovered mt and their

 
13-00000

 

Discovery of OSWALD in Mexico City

On 1 October 1963, the CIA Mexico City Station intercepted a telephone
call Lee OSWALD made from an unknown location in Mexico City to the Soviet —
Embassy there, using his.owmm name. Speaking broken Russian and using his true
name, OSWALD was talking to the Bubassy guard, OBYEDKOV, who often answers the
phone. OSWALD said he had visited the Embassy the previous Saturday (28 September
1963) and spoken to a consul whose name he had forgotten, and who had promised to
send a telegram for him to Washington. He wanted to know if there were “anything
new." The quand seid if the consul was dark it was (Valeriy Vladimirovich)
KOSTIKOV. ‘The guard checked with someone else and said that the message had gone

out but no answer had been received. He then hung up.

This piece of information was produced from a telephone tap center which

 

we operate It is highly

 

 

 

 

secret

 

 

 

 

| By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone conversation of 1 October
Ss

 

had been transeribed and'a summary of it cabled to Washington.

 

SEE
 

Prod t009-10022 ot oe

FORM

3-62

bx. rs

Wu. Sie fe lane

Ge

t

material and to the people pre :
ing the final report. In writing
aa this up I have made certain =

 

 

 

 

610 "<2" [] SECRET

() CONFIDENTIAL

  

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
    
   
 

yi"
and including ‘summaries. 0
telephone ' ‘intercepts. This :
useful to your analysts who are
processing the rest_of the.

  

comments and indulged in a certain) .
amount of analysis, because the -
naked facts seemed to call for it.] .-
These thoughts are my own. . Feel.

free to make your own analysis.

  

 

L, return the drat to you if.:
ha want it. Mees

  

This report was written for
ternal use only and was not
ant to be used outside the
ency.

 
 

Cy INTERNAL ]_sUNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

 

The cabled report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked
! in our files, where it was immediately noted that the Lee OSWALD phoning the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City was probably the Lee OSWAED who had defected to
the Soviet Union in 1959 and returned to the USA in 1962. On 10 October 1963,
the day after the report from Mexico City, cIA Headquarters sent out a cabled
report about Lee OSWALD's phone call to the Soviet Embassy; the report went to
the FBI, the Department of State (because OSWALD was a U.S. citizen), and to
the Navy Department (because he was a former Marine). The cabled report to these
agencies highlighted the liklihood that the Lee OSWALD mentioned was probably the |
former defector. A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand te the.
Immigration and Naturelization Service, with which we have no cable link. The
same day a long cable went out to Mexico City informing our Station of the
‘background of defector Lee OSWALD and asking for more information. Our Station
was instructed to pass its information on the phone call to the Mexico City offices
®

of the FBI, the Embassy, the Naval Attache, and the Immigration and Naturalization

Service. This was done.

 
 

 

Our Mexico City Station very often produces information on U.S.
citizens contacting Soviet bloc embassies in Mexico City. Frequently the
information we get is extremely incriminating, and on one or two occasions we
have k even been able to apprehend and return to the USA Americen military
personnel who are attempting to defect. In all such cases, our Headquarters
desk requests and obtains the special permission of the Deputy Director for Plans
to pass the derogatory information on a U.S. citizen to other government agencies.
We were not informed of what action the FBI and other agencies may have taken at
that time based on our report. Later investigation has confirmed all the details
of his trip, where he stayed, and what he did. To avoid crossing Lines with the
FBI, our Mexico Station undertook no local investigation of Its owm. As we now
know, OSWALD left Mexico on 3 October and was no longer there when our report

was put out.

Since this telephone tap operation is a joint one
Ld

 

 

 

the Mexicans also had the 1 October intercept on Lee OSWALD, but it

 

 

apparently slumbered in their files until the assassination took place.

 
