74-0000

    

 

   

She said that her ex-husband and President Sukarno
were'close friends and that he wrote to Sukarno at)
least once a weck throughout their marriage. ' Around: : ;
1957. she and Oltmans lived at the Paramount Hotel, -
New York, for_a-time. The Indonesian government
paid their bill, which was more than $300. She met
_ Sukarad through her husband liv May 1959 in. Copenhagen.
“At the time of the introduction Sukarno cleared-the
room of all advisors. and bodyguards, then said‘to-her,
_"So you are Frieda. Well, Lam Sukie. * He told her
“that he looked forward to receiving his weekly messages”
front her husband and that he always read them just
before he went to sleep while he was in bed." She said
that ten minutes after her wedding ceremony with ©
itimans was over, she-was atone. Her father, she
said, learned that Oltmans had a police record for
molesting young boys in Amsterdam. She obtained a
Mexican divorce in 1960. . She said that Oltmans is at
least intellectually a Communist and believes Communism
to be the economic system of the future. ~

je {HAGU-1365} 24 October 1966, says Oltmans
‘ wrote pro-Cumumba articles in 1960, visited Cuba in 1962
and perhaps 1963, developed friendly relations with

“Chicoms at The Hague and may have visited China in 1904.
In August [966 he applied for a Chicom visa at The Hague.

 

. k. An FBI report of 12 May 1967 says that Oltmans
claimed to have written for Ramparts an article about CIA
in Indonesia. No such article has been found,

6. Reference B. requested background information about
Garrison's mental health and performance as a public official. Aw
suramary of derogatory information from overt U.S. media for the
past year (March 1967 to'March 1968) has been compiled in response. ,
A decision will soon be made as to whether part or all of this material
may de sent to) he Station for use by Dutch CA asacts.. :
 

 

  

 

 

 

_ Distribution:

 

Orig - DCI Me \
1}. DDP, ADDP
V -A/DCI Ls
1 - Eur/Netherlands -
1 ~ Office of General Counsel
1 = Office ‘of Security: . -
1 ~ C/CI, DC/CI.
1 - R&A chrono :
1 - DP reports file |

 

o

   
   

1 March 1968

“_LuMEMORANDUM

 

SUBJECT: °° Garrison and the Kerinedy Assassination:
Blo ie . Interview of Garrison on Dutch TV by
William L, Oltmans (201-155221)

 

REFERENCES: A. Joint State-USIA cable, HCM 553,
: - HAGUE. = 3981, 24 February 1968
'B. (he Hague!3870, IN 59064,

27 February 1968 .

 

SUMMARY

Garrison appeared on Dutch TV on 22 February 1968. He
inued -- in fact, escalated: -- his attack upon CLA in a persuasive
‘Phere is-a possibility of a follow-up program in.
Garrison's interviewer,

at .. conti
re 8 ‘performance. -
’ Holland and replays cisewhere in Europe.

William L. Oltmans, isa Dutch pro-Communist, although he pretends

 

‘not to be, and ‘a. homosexual who seems to be of to have been intimate

_ with ex-President Sukarno of Indonesia.

Parner Sane is being given to forwarding to s at
“Lhe-Ha vert derogatory information about Garrison from the U.S.
V/radio interviews for release to CA asscts there. .

     

 

DETAILS

; ‘1, References state that on 22 February 1968 Garrison
‘appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch. Television Foundation, NTS) during
. prime time for one hour (time not stated). Neither reference explains
‘whether Garrigon travelled to-The Hague or whether the show wa3 .
taped in the U.S, and sent on tape to Holiand. The Dutch desk believes ‘ oe

that the latter is true.

 

 

 
‘Protoi7e-ot62].*

 

 

. a
ee re S
Cl unctassirign Cl usftite CD Cont venta EY” secner

   
 
 
   
   
    
   

  

: Raymond G. Rocca
C/CUIREA

fre LCF den, uration,

    

 

li

 
  
   

a,

i. ha 610 aasS* E} secret ] conrinentiat C] MLC) uncuassieten
74-0000 a , 7

    

 

Renae

_ 2. The following were Garrison's charges:

 

 

ae Kennedy was murdered because he favored a- :
_| detente detrimental to the interests ofthe "military-~ - rn .
’ industrial complex". i ne . . :

: b. Kennedy was the victim of a CIA plot. CIA
has made common cause with’ the military-industrial .
Lo Bo : establishment because of a vested interest in maintaining
toes mo the cold war. -

_¢; CIA is committed to the land war in Asia, | es
i whereas one of President Kennedy's last.orders directed ,
: .& reduction of troops there.

d, A U.S. president who brings the U.S. to the
brink of peace will suffer Kennedy's fate.

e. Asked why the program had been designed for
a European audience, Garrison said that the growing
influence of CIA on U.S. media had made it impossible for
him to be heard in his own country.

2 3. Reference Aé says Garrison; calm and composed; was.

sufficiently credible to elicit rather favorable reviews from generally

_ well informed Dutch newspapers. “Several Dutch viewers also
commented on the credibility a Toft] | his person and presentation.
Likely that the NTS will try to sell this program to other European

stations.

4. Reference B says that the Dutch press was generally favorable

and that many comments noted he seemed logical and i ol of his
facts. The majority ‘opinion among Embassy, USIS,\and CLA jJpersonnel

at The Hague is_that-he_sceme: dible to a large proportion of the
Dutch viewers. \SYMPATHIZER 1 l7jfeels that the program created an
_ all-time low in thé UTS. image in the Netherlands. Dutch TV alluded

to a third part of the interview, still to come.

3. Garrison wag interviewed by William L. Oltmans. A
synopsis regarding Oltmans follows:

CET
 

 

 

 

  

 

ene

T

 

as DPOB bo June 1925 Huizen, The Netherlands.

b. Studied at Yale 1950 but expelled for unstated
misbehavior,

. c.. Thereafter worked, briefly as correspondent
for’ U. P. and’ for. Dutch paper. ‘De Telegraaf but dismissed
by both for unstated cause.

- d, An FBI report. of 1960 states that: he calls
himself anti-Communist but’ expresses. the views "of a
great admirer of communism".

e. An L&NS, report of 1961 lists his address for
1956-1961 as 118-09 83rd Ave., Kew Gardens, Long Island,

New York,

£. A CIA report of 1961 lists him as a UN

corre spondent then planning an unsponsored trip to East
-Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia; and Hungary. Dutch
_ correspondents said that they had yet-to sce a’ story written
“by him. When he applied for membership in the UN
correspondents association, he'was unable to produce a
Single clipping in support of the ‘application: He travels
extensively « He has excellent contacts in all Communist
countries including Cuba. .

g. The Haague Post Post of LS April 1951, witha
nationwide readership, ‘Characterized Oltmans as an
intimate friend of the then President of Indonesia; Sukarno, -
and as having tried-for five years to arrange contacts
for Sukatno in. Holland.

h. An FBI report of 24 November 1961 restates
the above and adds that he had been separated or divorced
“trom his American wife 18 months earlier because “he is
not a man". He was living with a male at the time of the
report.

i. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 includes an
interview with the ex-wife Frieda Bieling (she had remarried).

 
