fra-t0t46-10235).

 

 

Ups

AT

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 4

Friday - 21 April 1978
rsey

14. (Confidential - MMP) HEARING Saw Loch Johnson, House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who said that
Representative Les Aspin (D., Wis.), Chairman, Subcommittee on
Oversight, wanted to havé what would be the last hearing on propaganda.
It will be closed and last for roughly two hours. Loch requested this
briefing for Thursday, 27 April. Subsequently, Loch called and requested
that the briefing date be changed to Wedne r Thursday, 4 May.
Ihave alerted Don Gregg, SA/DO/O,™ and C/CAS/DDO.

Loch also asked for a personal briefing sometime in the next week
or two on U.S. publishing houses with whom CIA has or had any
relationship. I have passed this request on to Don Gregg, SA/DO/O.

15. (Unclassified - THW) LIAISON Emerson Brown, Department

of State, called and referring to the article in the Washington Post this
morning, asked if it accurately reflected the DCI's statements of yesterday
concerning the role of the ambassador, I told him "no" and added that we
were trying to get a copy of the transcript today.. He asked if we could
send him a copy of the transcript when we received it; I told him we would,
Ialso mentioned that the DDCI had been in contact with Ben Read, Deputy
Under Secretary for Management, Department of State, and had assured
him that the Post article was in.error,.

16, (Unclassified ~ THW) LIAISON Bob Blakey, Chief Counsel,
House Select Committee on Assassinations, called and said he felt the

J restrictions we had placed on the Committee's access to raw documents

was unworkable. I told him that I felt the restrictions were necessary to
maintain the physical control over the documents, He said that he thought
we should discuss the matter in person and we decided that we would meet
at 9:00 a.m. on 22 April to go over the full range of security problems
arising out of Committee business,

17. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Danny
Coulson, Legislative Affairs, FBI, who said he had spoken to Bill Miller,
Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, about my request
to Coulson for information on the FBI's anti-terrorist programs and
Miller had told him that nothing further was needed from the Bureau onthis.

| 2/387
CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY
