Lgsha tae

-2-

.o

5. Subsequently, the writer departed from Miami on
National Airlines flight 201 enroute to Washington on the sane
plane as DROLLER, but no contact was made with DROLLER on the
plane due to the fact acquaintances of the writer made it
unfeasible. The writer explained to this group that he was
enroute to Johns Hopkins Hospital for medical treatment. He
then stayed in the Washington airport until all his friends
departed, thenvalked to the parking lot where DROLLER had
waited and the latter took him to the Hotel. Washington and
remained there until approximately 12:30.

 

 

 

RJO/pr

 

 
$

(tooo
7 a - Cy Da

 

25 July 1960
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1. On Priday, 15 July, a telephone call was received
from Jerry DROLLER, at which time he requested reservations
be made at the University Court Motel for a meeting of Cubans
that had previously been scheduled. At that time a-reserva-
tion was expressed to DROLLER as to the advisability of the
selection inasmuch as during the previous week a considerable
‘amount of Cubans were known to have been utilizing the premises,
These Cubans were connected with the ofl companies, the majority
married to Americans who had -been:. forced to leave Cuba as a
result of the expropriation of the refineries by CASTRO, Inas-
much as DROLLER was not planning to meet at this time vembers of
the Frente group and stated the same, he stated this would be
the last time he planned-to use this site as a meeting place.
A reservation was subsequently made for DROLLER under alias by
a member of the office staff using the ficticious name Paula
ROSS, ‘without. leaving a contact address or phone number,

_. @., .Monday evening DROLLER arrived in the Miami area and
was taken to the apartment-hotel of the writer where ne

met with various member of the office for a briefing, and
subsequently was dropped off at the University Court Motel at
2:30 a.m. by William KENT, who proceeded there via a circuitous
route, Telephone communication was maintained by the office
with DROLLER during the meetings. he transacted that day, and
calls were received from him on the office unlisted number,
setting up and changing a.luneheon meeting.

3. On 19 July it was prearranged that DROLLER would
remain at an inconspicuous place at the motel at 1345 hours
and we would drive by. and park, at which time he joined the
weiter and proceeded to a Howard Johnson restaurant located.
on Dixie Highway approximately a mile from the motel. ‘The
luncheon was attended by William KENT, DROLLER, and the
writer, and lasted approximately one hour. .

&,. Shortly prior to the end of the luncheon this group
was joined by Bernie REICHHARDT as a result of previous arrange-
ments made by he and DROLLER, and who subsequently dropped
DROLLER off in the vicinity of the motel.

  

Re ot ia tseaa
avr GA, 1

Doeteground Uso Only
Oo Mot Repicdue®

 
