74-00000

cat

   

  
 
    
            
             

70 ° " > —
Deputy Chief, WH/SA

  

ACTION REQUIRED;

I, INTRODUCTION

Ae Bubject's specific assignments have bee

m delimited for the Past
two years by several considerations beyond his .

control:

1, Prior to the Bay of Piga, Subject was used as a principal
agent in exile operations which were semi-covert at best, In the process
he was thoroughly blown as a KUBARK agent, — -

  

. 2, After the Bay of Pigs,

Government for-the defeat found Sub
Subject staunchly defended the U.S.
thereby won himself a number of bitt

those Cuban exiles who blamed the U.S.
ject an easy targetof their wrath,
ection (or lack of action), and

er enemies among the exiles,

3, As.an outgrowth of points 1 and 2 abov
and opinions on the situation in.Cuba
Groups in exile
oY @lae were Je
oxile community,

  
      
     
          
  

ve, Subject's statements
or.on the worth of individuals or
were either mistakenly. considered to be "official leaks,
iiborately exaggerated and twisted-in going around the

  

  
  
 
 
         
  

B, To remedy this situation, Subject's cover ag a prizefight
manager was strengthened by more actual participation in the activities
of hia boxer, and supplemented by a backstopped cover firm which pure
portedly used his services as a translator and consultant, Instead of

   
     
       
       
   
 

   

(Conti dp

Distribution:
i-5 BO/WH/SA Laer

bhuw t

Enctedea ine | prea —
eral

“cnctiehinn

wate
201 = 231688

hein et RBI MES AMARA i) Let OE Satins Vid bbMiinn Bobs cee 0 PAE OR ola he ess Dalene

 
 

[rod t0163-10107]

 

 

 

        
   
  
   
 
  

    
 

nnn PRIOR TO FRING
Sect. 2. on back. Dets
ferward to RIQ, aa 4
2. De: Oot: ‘Bi vedll an. AH “By, it recerds
] significant action takea oz comments requir-
ing preservation

pack flap and i
Mack Hap 2 i fle no. and thle shot:

 

are not proper, in-
aad forward doc

 

 

     
     

  

RID/ . Me
A J co fl. TAP ALE SSeRFSSzES

a he LLL fit im steric 1 cn aacn. ip apenopRiate PO
ro . COMMERTS ’
~ ~ ‘
'
fa) :

WGSAESC COPY DETACHED a
- n ‘
t

ef

Ors ~ Gough UW
daaly shetid Go “, -

fe) Is “A Note 7tu Secuthy «! ;
, Ye on: p(s leo rato. Pog

C

a

Z
ra
eS

|

ete en A ROR EOI EE ee ae oa hE
{

NTO Cia
Background Use-Only

 

Do Not Repreduce

“ee RETUR

_—
RB

 
74-00000

 

-Yegend was allowed to circulate that he

      

CCT RE
CONTIRUATION OF . :
DISPATCH | iF ET | UFGA - 17854

a a

trying to put Subject into deep cover, which was izpractical, the vague
Still retained direct contact

ed in operations, He was given

to anyone volunteering information

= OPATCo BME cE Ohh NOOBER

 

 

 

 

 

 

with KUBARK but was no longer involv
strict instructions to make it clear
that he would promise only to forward the report through proper channels
and that if there was any intere:.t in fellow-up or Operational involve-=
ment, it would be expressed through some other channel, By and large,

this effort has been Successfus, and Subject can be considered at this

juncture fully extricated from his former adverse operational situation,

WI, RECRUITMENT

4, Subject was a regular contact of ODENVY. when turned over to
KUBARK in mid 1959,

: B, Recruitment was not covert, Subjvct knew that he was dealing
with KUBARK,

C, Recruitment was handled by the COS, Havana Station in true
name,

. BD, Subject was originall
information using the natural
Government,

y recruited as a source of political
Access piuvided by his job with the Cuban

E, Salary at the time of recruitment wa
for operational expenses, After Bubjoct and
from Cuba in 1960 he was put on contract at §:

is now $500, per month, ©
TIX, SECURITY STATUS .
A. POA ~ No record at JMWAVE,

8 in terns of spot payments
his family were evacuated
300 per month, His salary

' - Be OA =. Written contract and contract check sheet in Subject 's
202 f41e give evidence that appropriate clearance forsalities were

completed successfully at Headquarters, but the details are not avaiiabl
at JMWAVE, ,

C. Subject passed his LCFLUTTER in April 1964, Results were
forwarded to Headquarters in UFGA = 15348,

D. Although Subject has a great Love of “the gane," he tends to
favor the less covert aspects of operations auch as investigation and
interview, This 13 a natural outgrowth of his police experience,

E, There sre no major violations of security on Subiect's 2.

Due to the semi-cyart assignments he carried out anorg large numbers of

witting contacts in the early days of JMHAVE activities, he was bereft
of any workable cover by nid-19¢% whan tha undersigned took him over,
From that date to the present there have neen a wumber of reports that
Subject “claimed to represent KUBARK" or stated that "KUBARK policy
WaBscec” It should be noted that his recent LCFLUTTEX gave no con=

2irmation of any such allegations, .
IV, PHYSICAL CONDITION

A, Subject had 9 phyedest shack.
his condition vas considered novnai, °

 

ap 4a Febsuary 1964 at wnich time

B, Subject appears to be in good physical condition at this time,
VY, CHRONOLOGICAL LISTING OF ASSICNKENTS

See paragraph 2,
Vi, EVALUATION

4A, Subject's major duty has been report e Compared to the
average staff officer, he may be rated “2 equate in the mechanics of
repurting,;—but-progoi it-4s-4tg othe suentin ec eu hag,

 

Pscorce;.

ke

 
74-00000

neon eens saeee meee sn ane Cay 2 neem anna > : - :

VIII, RECOMMENDED TRAINING

 

UiSPATCH BYU BSL AND NUMBER

nn
CONTINUATION OF emeeinisenes
DISPATCH ; a | UFGA - 17854

  
 
  
  
   
    
    
    
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
  
  
    
  
  
 

 

sensing valuable lads and following them up with pertinent questions,

B, He 1s not deft at elicitation, and he seems to be aware of ‘this
shortcoming, He prefers the straight interview which he reports fully
and accurately, and then adds footnotes with his comments, . te,

C, His comments are sometimes as valuable
usually they at least enhance the value of his

are based of recollections from his long and wi
Cuban problem, and on

established and mainta

as the reports, and
reports, .1Lese. comments
de experience with the
the voluminous personal files which he has

ined. on individuals and groups of interest,

D, He is also a tireless leg man when tracking down an odd bit of

information, and he has shown a good amount of porsonal courage in
Gealing with chara: ters known for violence,

E,. On the deficit side, it should be noted that having been so
closely involved, Subject is not without strong opinions on many of the

matters he revorts, and finds it difficult to be completely objective
in his choice of words, - .

VII, FUTURE POTENTIAL

A, Wis operational potential would appear to be quite good if
firmness and determination to succeed are factors, He probably would

be more effective in an operation where mental toughness rather than
tact and guile was required,

B, Because of hia language Proficiency and area knowledge, he
should stay i= anti~Cuban opevations as long ag it is feasible, He
might be considered for a move out of the JEWAVE areas however, and

Cc

probably could function well in any of the Latin American countries
except Brazil,

Subject completed s six-weeks basis tradecraft course in

September 1964, His next training assignment should be based on hig
specific operational use in the —

 

me

ae

S$ COPY

| " 4or-aSie?]

 
