 

0d-4 0440-10185]

 

 

/

Ae

 

INTERMAL USE ONC “qucincatiay — “

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel H S CA Page 6

Monday - 25 July 1977 Su eS EA

23, (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Gerry Burke, NSA,
and indicated that as late as Friday night, Dave Bushong, ‘Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff, was still of the opinion that Senator
James Pearson (R., Kansas) would be traveling to the NSA facility in
England, Later, Burke advised that the matter has been resolved that
the Senator will not visit the facility, but instead will receive a briefing from

the NSA representative in London,

24. (Unclassified ~ LLM) LIAISON In the company of Dick Rininger,
OGC, Don Burns, OS, and Doug Cummins, of our office, I met for several
hours with Bob Blakey, Chief Counsel, and James Wolf, staff of the House
Select Committee on Assassinations, to review the Committee's
security rules, non-disclosure agreement, and Merorandum of Understanding.
We completed negotiations on the first two documents and resolved one of
the two major problems with the Memorandum of Understanding. I told
Blakey that we would try to have our counter-~proposal to him either tomorrow
or the next day which he said would be fine.

25, (Unclassified - LLM) BRIEFING Mike Van Dusen, House
International Relations Committee staff, called to cancel the scheduled
29 July briefing of the Subcommittee on Europe and the Middle Fast because
of the pre-recess squeeze on the Cornrmittee schedule and the fact that
Chairman Lee Hamilion (D,, Ind.) would like to have the DCI appear
sometime in September.

26. (Unclassified - THW) BRIEFING I called Mike Van Dusen,

House International Relations Committee staff, and told him that, unfortunately,
the Director had another meeting which he had to attend on 29 July and, there-
fore, would not be able to appear before the Subcommittee on Europe and the
Middl: East on that date. I told him that we would be able to provide a senior
official to brief the Subcommittee which he at first agreed to. He later called
Mr. Millur and said that Chairman Hamilton wanted the Director to appear
and therefore, asked that the appearance be postponed until after the August
recess.

 

 

GEORGE L. CARY
Legislative Counsel

ce: DCL OB, DDI DDA DDS&T SA/DO/O NIO
tee Grinwid ‘Mr. Lapham IC Staff
- Sec. Mr. Hetu Comptroller

19/00

   
