 

afed

 

wba SESE

 

<i=e 22 October 1963
Libero Meciardelli (Correct)
SUBJECT: US Repatriate, Libero Rickiardel (Rikkiardel), Needham
Heights 94, Massachusettes.

REF : Paragraph three, our Memo, dated 31 Jul 61, forwarded under
Case ~ 35760. {copy attached )

1. After all thie time, ve finally (although inadvertently)
obtained the name of the gentleman referred to in the above reference;
the subject of this memo. & \

2. Our source reromene 6 Corporation,
recently received a ee | G. Ivakhnenko stating
that subject had returned to the fold.~-Following 18 an excerpt of the
letter, bad English and all:

 

+

"It seems to me I speak worser English then some times ago -
especially after my neighbor Libero Rickiardel (Rikkiardel)
[the typing wes hard to decipher because of strike-overs on
the second and third letters) went home for Needham Heits

G4, Massachusetts. It was good praxis for me to speak with

“CSET Pe“ #-3,39

him. He is complicated man having good and bad sides. Shortly

to tell, he ie rather egolstic man who @id not think about
Communism or ecapiteliem. Having the strong complications

in his femily, he dos not love hie wife but wanted the such
divorce when the children remain with his mother but not with

the wife, because he considers her as mentally weak. He hoped

to find the answer in another system. Here he received
rather good apartment and salary ~ 150 rubles per month, but
became homesick. Even the beautiful nature of Kiev seemed
to him gray and bore [bare?]. With great difficulties,
mainly from the USA side, hi got permission to return to
home. There wait for him two big problems: first - to
solve the problem with wife and children. The old fashioned
society of Needham will be against him. Second - the State
Department cannot ‘forgive' him his cosmopolitical behavior.

"Ana poor Norma [undoub€edly Libero's wife] has no meers to
live and cannot find the job in USA, even as the baby sitting
woman. She ig very tired and almost 111. Her only sister
tells her the price of the meal which she eats. Libero is
rather stingy, as many peopl? »bbroad, except you, of course!
Her situetion is very tragic.”

3. Earlier in the letter, Alexis asked write a welcoming

letter and maybe later visit with him. In t lexis said, “I
would like to know his destiny after return home.“ And later, he said,

“Do not ask a word about Norma from Libero, it makes him fierce. He really
does not love ber. Nevertheless I would like to know the future of this

family and waybe help them in any wey ~- for instance I can try to send
the medicine which Norma likes end. cannot find in the USA."

SREP ft
Encodes fers bie
fad

os

 

 
 

([toa-tot28-0167 ae

Chief, Personnel Security Division, os 25 October 1963
Chief, Contact Division, 00
RICCIARDELLI, Iibero -- 00-A-3,279,170
#348295
REY : Our memoranda dated 9, 19, and 2) August 1963, aame subject

1. The attached copy of 00-A=3,279,170 cantaing infor-
nation pertaining to Subject which may be of interest to the
FBI. If so, please do not disclose the name of our source,

2, Will you kindly refer to paragraph 6 of the repart
and advise us concerning the propriety of our sourcess in-
terest in writing and visiting Subject. Would the Bureau
object to this? .

3. This report has received no further aissenination.

4. Any questions pertaining to this meworandim ehould
be directed to Mra. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2202,

Attachment: As stated above a

 

  

ais
RETURN TO ca
[Background Use Only. =
®o Not Reproduce --

 
   

ee .
k, Perhaps the Bureau would like*to have a next door neighbor's

contribution re a recent repatriate. If so, please do not divulge our SY

source's name.

: 5. Too, Libero might be an excellent source of bio data on
: Ivakhnenko, having lived next door to him for a few years. With a
slight amount of preseure, he would probably be a most willing source.

6, With reference to ting to and visiting this
individual, we advised him til such time as we were
notified differently. Therefore, would you please check with the
appropriate Bureau staff to determine the extent of their interest and
whether or not our source would be cleared to write to and/or visit
him?

7. Please advise.

- end -

 

GROUP 4
Exeleded fram 2utoms
Gorngrading ace

eClaseticatige

  
     

Jol
