yeann00 many ieee ON

 

 

NOTE: The | also included
information thée-curer-or Station.had received
from ESDEW-1 on 8 June. ESDEW-1 said that he
had been providing information on ZIMERI to the
Guatemalan government for the past six months or
so. He claimed that two Americans were involved
with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service
in Miami, ‘ESDEW-1 did not mention names but
described one of the Americans as about six feet
four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4, The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends
with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD: ;
“a. Is ZIMERI still in.the United States? .
b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United. oe oe .
States legally, deport him to Guatemala. ns o:
c. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the — : a
United States for possible use in : og
Guatemala? : oe 7
Lo _ d. DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

r ae tial treatment by U. S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as” -
to purchase arms and ammunition for
shipment to Guatemala? —

 

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald
HEMMING? i . . wo .

 

5. On 19 June 1976 "Dan" of the Guatemala Desk advised .
that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State ~~
Department. oe : ae

  

.6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent.
. Variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING. — we

 

- %. From the name, physical description, activity, and. --
“alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject o&£,'0ffice- of Security file
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds, *
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who aso
of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
Miami, Florida. .

 

  
 

 

[0d 10139-10316
sa

er Shs

Le

 

11 .June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT . : HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
. SF#429 229 .

ay
‘

1. On 9 June 1969 "Dan" of the DDO Guatemala Desk (x9041)
contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation
Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

"Dan" was. referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMING
file, When "Dan" contacted the writer, "Dan" advised that ,
is the action officer for a cable from the { ,
reporting an assassination plot on the life of President ;
LAUGERUD of Guatemala. "Dan" was unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file
on HEMMING. "Dan" was requested to alert CI Staff and JMWAVE
to the below-mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a
-copy of the reporf..coming in from the

 

 

 

 

 

2. "Dan" provided the writer with a copy of the cable

 

(IN 944357, Cite 19536, dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached: ubstance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with g

 

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the’

a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot
to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According. to the informa-
tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however, -one of the major conspirators,:.Jorge Antonio.
"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
‘of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Miami. since August 1975. ; Bo : Los

 

 

3. According to the report, the National Liberation .
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot
and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,
Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. -: The ‘HEMMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which.
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials
in Miami and New Orleans. -

\ E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994

 

 
74-00000

i
i;
i
ij
8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency, |
the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMWAVE, On t
numerous cccasions since at least the early 1960's, HEMMING |
had claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has been .
none. The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such .
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services :
to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),
aka: Frenk FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who “also has a
long-time record of falsely. claiming Agency affiliation. In- tea,
the late 1850's HENNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines, ...°-
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter oo eee
Claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter, -
-STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and
. Central American activities which he named the International
_Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
_ Patrick HEMMING. :: : .

9.. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of -
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot . ..
involving HENMING, you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10. June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
‘and an’extract from a book published in early. 1976 written by
Michael. CANFIELD nd Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup aretat
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John Cenne ennedy
is a diatribe against the A; Agency and attempts to oF ik the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,°
Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti- -
- nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide -
publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim" :
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is ;
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick *HEMMING and oo.
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation... -

ee
yoke

 

Jerry G. Brown
Deputy Chief
Security Analysis Group

Atts
