    
  
   
  

° These assurances will preclude any ‘meaningful CIA
action “on a phased basis to provoke a revolt inside Cube, sinve
unless there are major changes in operational and internal con-

ditions: in Cuba, such a revolt if provoked would be totally

. destroyed by Cuban Gounteraction in a matter of hours or, at
ROS tow asy unless eepported by a major, United States

- Maattary/ oom tnent i

‘es a practical matter will. preclude invading Cuba on the pretext

 
 

2a: adition,” the ‘non-invasion assurances

‘of a contrived provocation such es an attack on Guantanano.
; (ee CIA. operations Anvolving. a. high noise level and a
* dimpiaet ‘elenent of -attributability, particularly paramilitary,
" guerrilly,. and commando type operations will. be unacceptable
as a matter of ‘policy.

De The Castro~commnist regine will remain in power for
the indefinite future, with its security and control apparatus
relatively intact and with the capability not only of erushing

, unsupported resistance activity, but of making operational
. conditions in Cuba increasingly difficult. While it. is
possible that recent and future developments including the
Soviet action in removing the offensive wespons from Cube ary
serve to weaken and discredit Castro, there is as yet no hard
indication that the control of the Castro-communist regime over
Cuba has been substantially weakenod. |
) Bs ., The United States (assurances of no invasion and no
‘ support ofan invesion will, in effect, constitute giving tc
Castro and his regime a certain degree of asnctuary. This will

 

 
 

«

 

= , *#

severely denage the aorale and motivation of anti-regine Cubene
both inside sad. outside of Cubs, ‘which will make it ineressing iy
difficult for us to. recruit agents, maintain agents already

Fecruited, and. continue or intensifzy our iatelligence and other
efforts ‘Against Cuba and the Castro—communist regine.

 

against, ‘Coba ‘and may even ‘contain to contend that the ultinete.

objective ia the overthrow of the Castro-communist regime.

“This. as an unrealistic objective, however, except.on a very

| long-tera, basis as tie. United States Government, we believe,
wil be unwilling ta the. innediate future to commit troops
to support such an overthrow, The United States Government
in its overt dealings with the Capen, exiles probably will not
| express. ‘the above factors to them in the context or with the
bluntaess, stated here, .

4 ‘In view of these factors, the so-called VIpack Tro)

. course of action, 1.6., unlimited support of Cuben exiles

and exile ErOUPS. with no real control or objective purposes

in the hope that ‘these groups wili be able to shake the

_ Castro regime will, although unrealistic, becoue increzs ing iy

attractive at various levels in the United Sts tes Government.

; g. As a matter of policy, political pressures aad
economic pressures short. of blocksde, raids, sad | aggressive

“sebotage against Guba: will be continued.

 
74-0000

 

 

[cam SECRET - susirive |

t .
bs
27 Novesber 1962
y . . . : 7inimenseED NEE ae
| an ; ‘ . , . Note: Uiscussed 27 Ucyeche:
{

 

1062 by DD/T with Gl
end approved gener: i:
im principle by f£CE,
Fully concurred (yo

. by BD/P.
re ‘MEMORARDO. FOR: Director of Central Intelligence -
oo TAROUGH: . _Depaty Director (lens)
, SUBJECT: - Operational Plea for Continuing
mo Operet tons Against Cubs

3, Action: This memorandua ig Yor your inforastion

gnd pursuant to your yoquest. Recommendations for action rre
contained ia Parugraph V below. The purpose of this aemercinns:
‘ia te eelineste an operational pina for the action which we

 

" pelieve should be taken by CIA ogsinst Cuba fur the predictahls
future. In‘ suamary the plan provides for cratinuing, even
intensifying, the intelligence effort sgeinst Cuba aad fi +

the reorientation of the current effort into + long tern

denied area type of operation of the highest priority.

I, ASSUMPTIONS:
‘A. The United States Government will give public
assurances that, provided no nucleer or offeusive weapors = 27

present or re-introduced into Cuba, end provided Cubr deer

 

van not take netdon to threaten the perce. -ond security of the |

   

   

invade , Cube ny support an invasion of Cuba, ibaa
[= SECRET - senstTive] PAPE HO.
. — Cen ae anor en D HOT DE ATIOY

 

 
‘Natotatn cnttiaient covert, assets to RIAe eaqaha:

MBSE.
Sem = eF

aw

 
 

PAYS ape

acaee eS
T4c366 4tre8eq" 30 tury: OEE Sa. 5:

 
14-00000

  
 

MODAN, PR toro’

setngex wyeaETHR 4f

    

 

   
74-0000

  

; Brats Bees
as Nov, 3 = 242

    
   
    

nodexate

oa the Gustze aan ‘ ris political pedagara

‘mene of Ce € regina to retard dove!iin-
oe v. ead asintain @ drain

on Bloo resources.

    

. : ; : . Gover. Cub.
‘HIS DOCUMENT 18 4 : . age of am inte!tiger >
requirements.

| A SOURCE RETORENCE

IN CS BISTORECAL - ¢ Me
PAPER NO. e

. pn Prepared te capitalise an =y significnne

=—D0 Nor DESTROY—

Les _ wprteing, oplit ia | ee. splits ae
WD Sect ~
SENSITIVE

    

 

 
 

 

SECRET - SENSITIVE

| Draft Memorandum to the DCI from William Harvey

Dated 27 November 1962

 

 

ae This is not a controlled item an a
: See FEES stared erent aE ES E

ais

 
   
   
 

RETURN TO aA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 
   

+ U3
 

 

 

age 1
oa Cuban-Blos relationships,

‘davelap’ active os md. Lationinertean eomtry supp yt t

ie
 

fF-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
