 

CASSE re Be - LATIN Src AN

SEC2iT i

Ga 23 June 1961 AMOT-87 reported the following information |
about relations between AMDIP-1 and Major goberc =. Van Horn,
USAF, Assistant Air Attacne to Cuba assigned to tne Miazi area:

1. On 2 June 1961 Major Van dorn received a phone call in
his Miami office. Miguel GARCIA, aka ‘Fatty, an old
friend of the Air Attache Office in Hav: and now
an official of the FRD in Miami of the AMDIP-L faction,
was calling Major Van Horn cn tehalfé of 450125) who was
Standing next to him by tke paone. This is know to
be true because he and GARCLA could be overseard waile

’ GARCIA relayed him the conversation. :

GARCIA told Major Van Yorn that the purpose of the phone
call was to make an appointment for AMDIP-1 to see Van
Horn on that sate day. He said AMDIP-1 was leaving for ‘
Washington and wanted to discuss with Van Hern certain wr
i:forzation. he had received to tae effect that Alberto
“ALBERTI, who was acting a3 Caief of the Liberation Air
Force, was trying to overtarow che Revolutionary Council,
and tnat Van Horn nad something to do with this too. Van
Horn told GARCIA to inform AMDIP-1 that ae was mistaken
about his paving any part in the alleged ALBERTI plot to
overtorow the Council; that ae was in contact wita
ALBERTI in the capacity of Assistant Air Accache complying
witn nis duties of liaison wita toe Cuban pilots in Miami,
and that as far as he mew, ALBERTI was not attempcring to
“overtarow the Council. GAaCIA relayed this information! |
to AMDIP-1, and again told Van dorm that AMDIP-1 wisned ‘to
have an interview with him before going to hasoington $j
and informing U.S. officials about the "plot". . |

Van Horn informed GARCIA that he was very sorry but he ;
could not see AMDIP-l.as ne was extremely busy making the
final preparations ior a conference of Air Attaches and i
Mission Chiefs waich he and the Air Attache, Colonel
Stevers, had to attend in Panama the coming Monday (this!
was Friday), and also that AMDIP-L was beyond his i
jurisdiction and he had no authority to talk to him: :
GARCIA then said that was tov bad, and chat AMDIP-1 would ar
be forced to subcit his report to Washington witaout / yf
discussing the problem with Van Horn. fgce ark aa
Leste "A eyT ae

From 5 June through 8 June, Colonel stevers and Major~ #4
Van Horn were in the Canal Zone attending tne conference;
of Air Attaches and Mgssion Chiefs to Latin America. During
the conference they inad the opportunity to talk witn: some
of the heads of tne Air Attacae Branca “ho cold them that
che Brancn was very pleased wita tae work they were doing
in Miari and thac they were considering the possibilicy ¢

UIE FREOOLS ENON

TEM ACES HOaME

AEN Ce een ce

 
 

 

‘0d-4 0167-40386)

Pry

Sly:

Lea

 

SECRET / KY 8 AY
-

“A, feEN FLED INT .
ROUTING. AND RECORD SHEET de Veriere-

 

0°

INS i

 

a PRIOR TO FILING

 

TO: ACTION BRANCH ¢

 

A. Fill in Sect. 2. on bazx. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.

2. Lestroy front cover sheet, ucless it
records significant actica tazez or
coazents requiring preservati

  

FROM: - ~ Find nO.

 

Wa/4 PECISTRY
To ——_——
a fa Fi
¥a/4 REGISTRY | 13 put 1881
- ! &
fe pht/ EXEC Up

 

  

I? file no. and title shown ave not
proper, insert prcper file no; below
acd forward decureat to RID/ay. .

t

4
!
TO: ALL. ADDRESSEES
Frit, te SECTION 1 0% BACK. IF APPROORIATE.
COMMENTS g

 

 

cory DETACHED

1
¢ i
 

 

 

. CONTINUATION UFGA-1E41° -2-

Distribution: ;
' " *‘3-Headquarters rn)

7 July 1961

- PKT/Lhe

SECRET /RYBAT

ieee certains A

of assigning Major Van Horn to the Miami area indefinitely

in view of the results of the work done by the Air Attacae
Office. Colonel Stevers was not mentioned. because ne is to
retire from thet Air Force as of July 1961. Previous plans

nad been to disband tne Air Attache Vifice in Miami as o£

30 June 1951, sv tne possibility of Major Van Horn's indefinite
assignuent was a recent develu;ment. The general. feeling.

was that the Air Attacne Branch approved of the work dose

and wanted to continue with it. Colonel Stevers and Major

Van Horn returned to Miami on 8 June 1961.

On 9 June 1961, Major Van dorn received an urgent pitone

call from the Air Attache Branca in Washington asking oim to
veport to their office at 9:00 A.M. on ll: June. They were
very upset because the "House" was. demanding Major Van xHorn's
appearance before Mr..Goodwin to discuss a serious problem.
They gave Major Van Horm the icpression tnat it was connected
wito AMDIP-1‘s accusation of a plot to overthrow the Council.

Major Van Horn lert Miami ror Washington on 11 June, and it is.
_ understood by AMOT-&/ tnat by Wednesday, or Toursaay, 14 June,

ay the latest, Major Van Hora nad already appeared verore

all the persons wno were interested in talking to ain. i
However, he was asked to remain in Washington and make ainseLr
available ror consultations on the. Cuban problem ror.a TaN.
moce days. It is velieved that he was recurning co Miami

on 23 June. ;

 

Van Horn paoned his Miami orrice from Washington to say! that
the Air Attache Orrice was breaking up as or 30 June, aad
advised the office staff that they should suspend all :
operations until mis return, at which time they. would eet ;
the. files. ready for. shipment to Washington. ..

 

feaket shale |

2-Files

 

a Rees (vere

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we
