a
4

 

 

"Pp. S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were
inserted after typing of dispatch. These were
taken as [the] person entered [aul] Embassy.”

18. The "Unidentified Individual" remains to this day

unidentified. There is still no credible evidence, as far as

CIA is aware, that the individual in | the photograph had any

connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or “the assassination of

President Kennedy. -
Oe ree

C Sra.

"45. On 22 November, 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Head-
quarters at 2229Z time after learning of the arrest of Lee H.
OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connection. with the assassination,
and referenced its earlier messages of 8-9 and 15 October and
Headquarters’ reply of 10 October. The Station requested by: |

"priority pouch a photo of OSWALD so that Station
can check all retent. coverage for OSWALD. Forward-
ing soonest copies of only visitor on 1 October who
could be identical with OSWALD."

16. This obviously was for comparison at the Station
which had estimated the age of the unidentified male whose
photograph it had. selected. as having the "apparent age of 35."

17. . The Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and
accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intel-
ligence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the

indication given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch

 

noted that photo coverage of the unidentified individual had ©
turned up on 4 and 15 October. The text of the 22 November 1963
pouched dispatch read:

"1. Attached are copies of the only photographs — . .

obtained. . .on 1 October 1963 which appeared to be

an American. This same man visited {an} Embassy on

4 October 1963.

"2, ‘Copies—of these photographs were shown to the

U. S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of

each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

!
|
j
_ Mexico, on that date. ... : |

 
14-00000

 

 

9, It must be stressed that what technical information the
Station had was not (and normally is not) processed in "real
time." The means of acquisition and the volume of the infor-—
mation preclude anything. but the spot reporting of items judged

“to be of more than ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in .
summary logs. Full texts of selected items require consultation
of .the tape and either a full transcription or full translation:

or both. Photo coverage tends to become available in quantity

ee

lots which requires scanning and selection on a rapid and
accelerated basis in four or five day “peaks.” One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more
speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is
the mention of a name. ‘This was precisely what occurred in the
second of two conversations on 1.October, during which the.
speaker said he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information
reported by the Station to. Headquarters in its first indication
on OSWALD on 8 October 1963. | |

10. The Mexico Station did one more. thing in its 8 October
report.on Lee OSWALD based on the 1 October information: it
coupled the data with descriptive information it had acquired
from a sensitive source -“- a photograph of a male individual,
apparently an American, who was observed entering» an ‘Embassy -
on 1 October. The Station reported this detail on the 8th as
a matter of coincident fact. The Station did not assert or

suggest that the data led to any deduction that the photo was in

 

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

Wi em ee eu ce ee

 
wee

-_~
C! .

ge

11. One additional element of background must be
stipulated now as “the final precondition to understanding the
relevance (or irrelevance) of the photo of the unknown.

individual placed in the. chain of evidence on 23 November in

Dallas by” the FBI agent: what was the. totality of CIA Mexico*s

coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the afternoon of ‘the 23rd

 

when all available coverage had been checked? :
12. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on or “reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD consisted of five. (5) voice intercepts.

_ Each of these items, including the text.of the raw intercepts,

. were read by, discussed with, and examined by Warren’ Commission

‘staffers, in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay

from 8-13 April 1964. All were made available promptly to

"the FBI.

day, he appeared to be the only non-Latin and possibly American

‘who entered. On the chance that there could be an association

13. At about mid-day on 1 October, the camera registered.
the entry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the

opinion of the Station, among all the persons photographed that |

between the identification data derived-from the voice inter-
cept and the descriptive data derived from the photograph, the.
Station reported the two elements as separate facts in its cable
to Headquarters on 8 October. : ,

14. The Station's action was not unusual and really amounted
to an analytic “quantum leap," in terms of the primitive status
of the OSWALD identification. Many examples of a similar kind of

thing can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters
14-00000

; C f
r+ a %. Ne
Unidentified Individual in the Warren Commission -
Report .

REFERENCE: Memorandum from David W.° Belin to E. Henry Knoche,
dated AS April 1975 - .

 

1. In accordance with reference request, we have exainined |
and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph that was
considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its investi-
3 . -gation. The photograph (together with others of the same :

individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted

 

in October 1963 by the CIA {and the Mexican security authorities. }

 

~ ( - (

{ ila.

12 May 1975

SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings Regarding Photograph of

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-

mation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-

graph were nade available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the

afternoon of 22 November to the local FBI representative. Later”
that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies.
were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval

Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use :

“in the. ongoing investigation. One photograph, cropped by the -

FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD’ s ao
mother) in Dallas on the evening of 23 November 1963 by an FBI
-. agent. . oo |
| 3. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of
events that ultimately resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's
allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

the day before he murdered her son. A further complication

   

004645 —_

    

Giasstied OY oi
104-10054-10265

 

Pan .
a 2%. ww
‘ ‘
‘
ts, —_

rr

ag ° *
ae CENTRAL Inte = Acency

 

Orrice or Tre Drrecroar

dr. David W. Belin "23 May
txecufive Director : wn" G75
tommission on CIA Activities

Within the United States

Jear Mr. Belin:

Tam attaching, per your request of 15 April,
vackground materials relating to certain. questions
relating te Oswald and the Warren Commission.

’ Rab Aisa classified Secret memorandum
sasponsive to your request: Tab B is an unclassi-
‘led version, . which you can use as you see fit
n-whatever report you are preparing on the subject.

. Additional details are available in the Office
of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue
his. in greater depth. ©

» Faithfully yours, :
Satite mit L a

“H.-H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s_

gnocherrrh: 15/13/75
tribution:

g- Mr. Belin w/att
‘OGC -  wofatt 9 6 Nt

IG wo/att

Kroche Chrono wo/att

™ Comm Correspondence wo/att
Belin Letter Request 15 April wiatt -
Warren Commission . fe

 

rel 2a
Re

hy

 

 

 

 

 

 
C  ¢
( 27 SEL (

compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that, when

- she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance

before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washing-
ton in a slightly different. manner. £ .

4, Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his
stay in Mexico City from the morning of a ‘September: 1963 to the
morning of 2 October 1963, at ‘least one ‘get of photographs of f the

unidentified man originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is

-important,: therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition and

handling of the photographs by the Mexico Station to review what.

the Station ascertained and did with the information it developed:

about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with Headquarters action on
that information.

5. From all credible evidence known to this time none
incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com- .
mission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2)
partial days -- about 116 hours in all -- in-Mexico City from about

10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:50 a.m. 2 October 1963.

His place of residence was a small commercial ‘traveler hotel, not.

 

frequented by “gringos" | ~- the Hotel Commercio -- where he was.
registered under alias. Exhaustive and detailed interviews and .
interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the
assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel
personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.

6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,.
and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his ‘stay

(38 or 39 hours) , there remain some 78 hours of activity to be

t

 

 
ae

accounted for, Overall, CIA's information can account only for
very brief periods during 28, 29 September and 1 October. All
coverage by CIA during the entire period was technical. The
Station had no live’-source (living agent) coverage.

7. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under
investigation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in
the USSR and return to the U. S., 1959 -- 1962, were known: to the
Mexico. Station or in its files before 10 October 1963. On that ,
date, the bare bones of his biography were forwarded by. Head--
quarters in response to a Station cabled report of 8 October
which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be a

contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR.

This was indicated and deduced from ‘technically acquired infor-

fee renee mara en ceenentnamrmt es te

mation on 1 October, which was the first and only occasion on that
visit: in which OSWALD was recorded as identifying himself .
(partially) by true name.

8. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA

.acquire a photo of OSWALD. _A careful review of all coverage ---.

technical as well.as photographic -- was conducted by the Station
on 22 and. 23 November 1963 after the ‘assassination, including
materials back to August-1963. This confirmed that there was no
CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his Mexico trip
or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a cabled
request: on 15 October; the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters -- which

did not have. one either.-- before 22 November 1963.

   

oa nt nore ge a ease een cone oon —
