 

 

SECtEL , idan
oe

30 duly 1956

S. The Soviete begen to hod-neb wita (LanurE] wootally after he
eppiied for Rie visa,

Ob
, [Loesiaraa) apsais Prsedon,
B. 0a cae eonston, (EoNk Rlinvited two of the Soviets ant &
Finnish Gemenios, ore RISE (faa), zrer to hie apartment fer
an after-Giaser drink. fhe two Soviets appeared, but the
Finaish Coamunist 414 met. Asked why the Soviets had net
brought their Finniah friend, one af the Soviets replied,
"We de not like to associate with thees Flanish Oommunlsts, —
Many ef these Communiste who weld betray their own couiry _.
would aleo betray the Soviet Union too, You can’t trust
thea.® : .

?, The above information came frea tie Aueriecan Oulteral Attache |
acd is deveid of many ieportast details, whieh Helsinki bao.
asked Keadqgeerters te get froz [Liiwar ainoe 1t wae immosaihie
wo debrief him before bo left Ob

3. To date, EoMuref nao oot given his motive for asecoisting with
these Soviets, Beasver, bo aould gusd tact be mated to becomes persons
grata with them te enguro receiving Ris viea te ts USSR, The Sovicts in
Helsingd have been quite eager to associate with nen-effieial Ager. cans,
such 68 Pulbright stndente asd tourists who epsak Bussian, Presambly
thie ie ube pattem in ether countries tos. In fact, one aight even say
that an dmer ican, Russian-speaking scholar applying for 2 Soviet vies in
say Weotern capital will bo @uteratically oultivated by tae Soviets, if
the two cases hore in Helsinki are a valid indicaticn,

bo ,

&. The ether case, whic we will mst take aol te ‘deseribe
to the sddresese etations, was very aimilar to the affair, in
that it iavelwed a ywung Pulbrighter, we hed sajored in Soviet etadisa
at Cartecuth. In the case of the letter, be ues told by the Seviets
cere that they weld give hie same to cas of thalr “friends* in Soviet
offielal Feprosentation in Hew Tork . 4

aah 0
5. A® econ os Headquarters) bas ER | pemission te publish —
guch 4 newspaper article, tha, previda the names
and addresses ef Finals: editors to Cale, en and Beas, so that

if the article bes been inserted in the Borwagias, Banish or Italia
press, it can be mailed imotiately to the Finsish editors in quetion,

‘eo :

- Oe

 

Ag
 

(toa-tot7a-0335

.

 

i to RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
* Do Not Resreduce

 

|
ars __ 30 aly 1956

Be] Caief, 1 ie
mom Gilet of Stai DWCn Gatef of station, (Ibous! 15-1 -
: Gdef ef Station, ;

[GBORAL REDCAP/LCIMPROTE YSIRES Gdef ef Sraties, 4G

LTCC Statement by Soviet Bpleast re ;

_ . Fimish, Comunis ve

REECE: A, 792, 2 daly 1956 {xe ealy)

B 1S dass 1956 (to ) .

on . ) 7 ° . oe

». 4 fea éxye after writing referense A, it suldenly eecerred ts

of suh en ertdale in Finland, at least, aveld be tu weeks bafsre the
temiclpal alestions im September 1956. It oo Rot appear is the
press firet, but would have to be picked up from the

countrisa.
2. Yor ths bansfit af the Stations to thich this dispatch is betes
sent, tho following will serve os background informations. .

lo
A. [LTE nas bean in Finland for the past mine mouths water
a grant ia higher ssthemtics, :

B. In commetion with obtaining a visa in arder te give lectures
in the Soviet Union, he booms scquaizted with several Sorist
diplemste, all of whoa, wish the exception of QOLUB (feu)
ore mom to be RIS offisere wader Gpleantiec cover,

a Pe

merges 51-28 A ; Ri ecny . [8]- 1aQ6o- S ~ |
