74-06000

ee “~~ - JOR. SECRET
sot - CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

. As a matter of added relevance, it is noted
that the Public trial of AMLASH/1 contained no
reference to this phase of his activity. Nor did
the book provided by Castro to Senator McGovern
about plots against his life contain any reference
to this period, so far as AMLASH/1 involvement
_was concerned, referring to the later period
instead.

The full chronology of the AMLASH/1 operation
makes it clear that the SSC Subcommittee draft
is in error in attempting to make the AMLASH
operation the basis for.a claim that it could, ~~
of itself, have led to a retaliatory act by Castro
because of its threat on his life. It simply does
not fit,

a

 

Page i2. Allen Dulles "probably did not know about the AMLASH
operation, "as stated in the SSC Subcommittee draft
report. However, even if he had, the chronology above
would have led him to consider it irrelevant to the task
of the Warren Commission,

Page 12. Line 8. Reference to FBI first learning of the AMLASH
operation in July 1964 (see page 8 for statement it first
learned in May 1962).

Page 13. lst complete paragraph. This states that the AMLASH
- plot was "of far greater relevance to the Warren

Commission work.'' That, of course, is the issue. Further,
those willing to testify to the AMLASH plot would have
had to be knowledgeable of it in detail, or what they said
would have had to take into account the sequence of events
as they relate to when it associated the Agency with
AMLASH/I's plans, which were following the Kennedy
assassination. .

Page 14. "Moreover, there is evidence that CIA's investigators
made requests for files which should have given knowledge
of the AMLASH operation, but for some reason they did
not acquire that knowledge. "!

TS No. 185246

oa Bo
p SECRET
CIA rena USE ONLY
14-00000

Page 15.

JOP SECRET.
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

To check. What was requested, and how would

the request have produced information on
compartmented operations that those involved '
may not have considered related?

"Although this report (1967 IG Report) raised the

questions of a possible connection between the CIA's ©

plots against Castro and the assassination of President
Kennedy, the report was apparently not furnished to CIA
investigators who had been ordered that year to review
again the assassination investigation. Once again, although
these CIA investigators requested information that should
have led them to discover the AMLASH operation, they
apparently did not receive the information."

First, what was requested, to whom? Second,
the report will be read again to see what
connection it saw between the various plots .

and the eventual assassination--there may have
been some recognition of the concept, but at this
writing I recall only noting possible connections
between people in the various operations.

‘Thus, the Select Committee has found that the CIA on
several occasions failed to investigate the possibility
of a connection between its own assassination plots,
especially the AMLASH plot, and the assassination of
President Kennedy." :

The fact is that the possibility was not investigated,
at least so far as Ikmow. It probably would be
less dramatic, but more responsible, to observe
that there was no investigation of possible
connections between all CIA activities against
Cuba and the Kennedy assassination. In any

event, the "especially" aspect of the AMLASH

plot is treated above. : : :

-~6- TS No. 185246

CIA wher Se ONLY
74-0000

 

 

 

JOP. SECRET.
_CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

'. AMLASH/1 is quoted in July 1964 as saying

that Robert F. Kennedy had refused U. S.
involvement in the assassination of Castro.
And where would AMLASH/1 have obtained that
impression? At the 29 October 1963 meeting
where Fitzgerald had represented himself as

speaking for Robert F. Kennedy.

At a subsequent meeting between AMLASH/L

and the case officer, AMLASH/I1 professed ©
satisfaction with the policy discussions (he had
been told, as noted above, that an anti-communist
coup group, if successful would be supported)

and was reported as follows: "but now desired to
know what technical support we could give him,"
He didn't give up easily! But the author of the
SSC Subcommittee draft sees this as the condition
by him for further meetings-~or so he said in
discussions of the draft paper. AMLASH/I's
views were relayed 14 November 1963 through a
close friend in the U.S., expressing his dis-

- satisfaction with U.S. unwillingness to provide

"technical assistance, "'

As of this time it should be reasonably clear
that AMLASH/1 had no basis for thinking that

he had: U.S.--or CIA--support for assassination
of Castro. Whatever developed later, this is —
significant in how one treats the operation as a
basis for what Castro could have learned if he
knew what AMLASH/1 knew."

On 19 November 1963 Fitzgerald approved--in
Washington--providing AMLASH/1 a cache in
Cuba, with high-powered rifle and telescope.
Also plans were made to prepare.a Papermate
pen with a hypodermic that could be used in
administering poison to Castro. AMLASH/I
did not know of these developments until he -
was met by the case officer on 22 November 1963
in Paris, the date of President Kennedy's
assassination. The development was too late
to provide a basis for any retaliatory action by
Castro against Kennedy, if he learned of it.

_4- TS No. 185246

CIA ARETE ONLY
74-00000

Page 9.
(continued)

TOP SECRE .
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

In advance of the meeting, as shown in the 1967
IG report, the written plan was that AMLASH/1 be
given "assurance of full U.S. support if there is
a change of the present government in Cuba."

The record of what happened at the meeting was
recorded afterwards as follows: "Fitzgerald
informed (AMLASH/1) that the United States is

prepared to render all necessary assistance to

anti-communist Cuban group which succeeds in
neutralizing the present Cuban :leadership and
assumes sufficient control to invite the United
States to render.the assistance it is prepared to
give. It was emphasized that-the above support
will be forthcoming only after a real coup has been
effected and the group involved is in a position to
request the U.S. (probably under OAS auspices)
recognition and support. It was made clear that
the-U.S. was not prepared to commit itself to
supporting an isolated uprising as such an up-
rising can be extinguished in a matter of hours
if the present government is in-zontrol of Havana
. .. '! Emphasis supplied.

Recollections of the meeting amplified the written
report, as recorded in the 1967.IG report. AMLASH/1
wanted a high-powered rifle with telescopic sights
to kill Castro. Fitzgerald wanted no part of such a
scheme and told AMLASH/1 that the U.S. simply.
does not do such things. Interesting confirmation
of this is found at page 134 of the Subcommittee —
draft report, in a summary of an FBI report of
July 1964, some eight months after Fitzgerald met
with AMLASH/1 in Paris. The Subcommittee
draft cites that report to prove something else,

but it really i is relevant here. ,

TS No. 185246

TOP. SECRET
or

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
74-00000

‘ TOP. SECRET
CIA. INTERNAL USE ONLY

Item Comments on Draft Report of SSC Subcommittee

Page 2.

Page 7.

 

_ Page 8.

‘

Line ll. The word "agents" may describe FBI employees,

. but it is not a term ordinarily applied to CIA staff

employees.

2d complete paragraph, 2d line. The phrase "backed by
CIA," in describing the Bay of Pigs operation, is im-
precise. CIA was the government instrument for con-
ducting the operation, but there was considerable other
participation in an operation that was "backed" by the
government. ; :

Characterization of the Castro plots "as another method
of achieving a change of government" is imprecise; it

_ suggests a degree of separation from other government

activities that is not that clear. The so-called first
phase of the operation involving the criminal Syndicate
was coincident with the Bay of Pigs and more logically |
part of that overall government program, however
compartmented in its own activity. The so-called second
phase was moze than coincidental, the case officer being

the CIA representative in MONGOOSE activity. It may
' be an interesting editorial phrase, but imprecise.

The statement that the FBI knew about these plots by at
least May 1962 needs some elaboration. These plots
didn't involve AMLASH/I at that time, so far as
assassination was concerned, This also has to be
reconciled with the statement at page 12 that gives the
date of FBI learning of it as July 1964. The first was
prior to AMLASH/Ii's involvement in plotting as sassination
with CIA, and the second is long after the Kennedy

_ assassination. If reference is to FBI knowledge of the

involvement of the criminal Syndicate, it has to refer to

' more than knowledge of the contacts, but also the substance

of the operations. Something is amiss here.

TS No. 185246
Copy _~ of 7 copies

TOP SECRET

CUA INTER SAL TOON Y
74-00000

Page 9.

. WOR SELKEL
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

2nd and 3rd paragraphs. The status of operational
activity in June 1973 was that there was no activity in

. the Syndicate operations for months (it had been agreed
‘that they were discontinued), and there had been no

contact with AMLASH/1 since August 1962. In the latter

‘case AMLASH/1 was given no encouragement 6n his
_thoughts that Castro had to be killed, so far as U.S. |

support for it was concerned. Statements by Castro.

' about retaliation for "terrorists" had to apply to other

activities.

Paragraph bottom of page (continuing to page 9).
References by Castro (12 September 1963) to "covert
activity" undoubtedly referred to the not-so-covert
activity of MONGOOSE operations, This mixing of
general operational aggression-~short of open war--
and individual operations, makes the editorial treatment
of the draft report difficult to read. It is pretty loosely
done. :

Bottom of page, speaking of 29 October 1963 meeting

between AMLASH/1 and Fitzgerald, the draft report
says". . . within weeks of this meeting CIA escalated
the level of its covert operations, telling AMLASH the
United States supported his plan,"

This misrepresents what AMLASE/I was told,

and tries to raise the inference of.a connection -
between that version of what was said and other
operational activity. There is.no planning
relationship between the inconclusive relationship
_with AMLASH/1 and what was then going on under —
MONGOOSE.

The meeting with Fitzgerald, preparing for it,

and what followed, is key to how the relationship:
with AMLASH/1 was at that point.

TS No. 185246,

TOP SECRIT
CIA INTERNAL USE £ ONLY
eae, FOR SECRET |
“4 CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

7 JUN 1976

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: SSC Subcommittee Draft Report on Intelligence Agencies’:
Support for the Warren Commission Inquiry

' 1. The main oroblem posed for.the Agency by the draft report
- is its presentation of the AMLASH operation. It is a classic example
of selective use of quotations and of quotation out of context. Essential
features of the record are omitted, and in some instances negative
interpretation is used in place of positive facts. The chronology is
blurred in some instances, when it relates to the substantive evolution
_of the Agency's relations with AMLASH/1. The resulting picture varies
- significantly from the true nature of the operation, in terms of what
’ happened when. . . .

- 2. ‘The SSC Subcommittee draft may well make a valid point, in :
contending that the Agency did not do a detailed review of possible Cuban
involvement in President Kennedy's assassination, in contrast to the
exhaustive analysis of possible Soviet involvement. The draft report makes
the point that the Warren Commission did not ask it, and the Agency did not
do it on its own initiative. The preliminary reaction of the DDO representatives
who read the draft report, is that the draft is correct in ngting the limited
effort on the subject of Cuban involvement. While there areavariety of
explanations for this, the fact remains that it is explanation instead of a =
record of performance. What such an inquiry would show -- or not show -- is

‘not the question, but whether an inquiry was made. This point, while made
-in the draft report, becomes almost submimimal to the heavy emphasis given
the significance of the AMLASH operation. The fascination with the operation,
andi its detailed erroneous ‘treatment, does a disservice to the purpose of
the paper. Its extensive, repetitive treatment has been made such a part ~
of so much of the paper that only highly competent editorial revision can be
expected to correct it in the time reportedly available.

 

; 3. The focus of the SSC Subcommittee draft report is not fixed on the
scope of CIA operations against Cuba and Castro, and the failure of the

Agency to review these activities in the context of the Warren Commission
inquiry. It emphasizes one particular operation in support of its main —
conclusion. Most of those familiar with the operation will agree that it
eventually developed into assassination plotting. Some Agency personnel --
directly involved at the time -- will not accept this characterization, drawing
a line in their own minds as to how far they went. However, to most of those
not so involved, the AMLASH operation did progress to the point that CIA
agreed to provide equipment for an assassination attempt against Castro, this

TS No. 185246/A
Copy _@ _of 7 copies

TOR SECRET
GIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
 

[104-10103-10096] > 4UP SECKEL

y UNCLASSIFIED when blarik—TOP $ «ET when attached to Top Secret Document-- _omatically downgraded < or declassi-
~ | ¢ fied when filled in form,is detached from controlled document. : wo

’ CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP. SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION . cee Wits ty REGISTRY
SOURCE : CrA CONTROL NO. ~

TS 185246/4

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

  

     

 

 

   

DOC. DATE aan .
icorrss. Pegg the Warren Commission »ageley cosets by

NUMBER OF PAGES

NUMEER OF ATTACHYENTS {one}
S 189246 (/ SP Acs eS

ATTENTION: This fo: will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency ,
or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as it is downgraded, destroyed, or”
transmitted outside of CIA. Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Top Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose offictal
duties relate to the maiter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form
and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided. Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and
indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

REFERRED TO| RECE 1VED RELEASED | SEEN BY
FFI fONVe DATE
OFFICE n SIGNATURE DATE TIME DATE TIME | SIGNATURE iy ce ae]

BS tad 1s
te

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
 
 

    

DESTROYED ©
BY (Signature)

 

 

DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

 
 

 

 
 
  

 

WITNESSED BY (Signature) BY (Signature)

 

 

  

OFFICE

 

OFFICE

  
 

 

TOP SECRET

  
14-00000

mF TOP. SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

support constituting participation in whatever was to follow. The

key point, in considering the SSC Subcommittee paper, is when AMLASH/1
could reasonably have believed that he had official U.S. support for

such ‘specific action, and when Castro could have learned of this in —
reference to the assassination of President Kennedy. The question |
presented in the draft report ‘is whether the AMLASH operation reasonably
could have led to the President's assassination,. and. whether CIA therefore

_ Should have reported it, as such, to the Warren Commission.

4, The draft report seeks to establish that (1) the AMLASH
operation’ was an assassination plot on the part of CIA for a substantial
period preceding President Kennedy's assassination, and (2) it was so
insecure that Castro not only could have, but most likely did, become aware.
of it in time to serve as a motive for retaliatory action against President
Kennedy. If, infact, CIA's posture vis-a-vis AMLASH/1 provided no reason-
able grounds for him to believe that he had U.S. support for the assassination
of Castro during the period preceding Kennedy's assassination, this central
thesis ‘of the report: suffers at its inception. As a matter of interest, at
this time the report appears ‘to accept the operations with the criminal
Syndicate'as successfully secure. - ‘

5. There is a'relatively objective basis for testing the various ~
interpretations to be offered at this time. . In 1967 the Office of the
Inspector General investigated CIA plots against Castro (among others)
and prepared a report on the subject. That was done to record the
essential aspects of the operations, and not in anticipation of an issue
such as the present one. The reports were in considerable detail; in .
fact, they presented considerably more detail on the substantive develop-
ment of the AMLASH relationship than is included in the draft report of the
SSC Subcommittee. Written for. most limited dissemination (one copy only,
for the DCI) at a time apart fromthe present issue, it cannot easily be
dismissed as special pleading today. Where its reported facts contradict
assertions of the draft report they should be faced head on. wo

. 6. The attached package consists of a series of preliminary comments
on the SSC Subcommittee. draft report. Some are simple editorial critique
(although the first, couple of pages include relevant portions of the 1967
report by the CIA Inspector General), some raise questions of fact for
internal CIA checking, and others present points for possible security
consideration. Copies are being sent to the representatives of the Office

‘of Security, Cl-Staff, LA Division and to Mr. Bolten. We should be prepared

to discuss our approach Tuesday afternoon at 1400 in the Review Staff
Conference Room. :

TS No. 185246/A

 
 

@

JOR SEURLL
CIA INTERNAL EF ONLY |

7. The classification. of Top Secret derives from the present
classification born by the SSC Subcommittee draft report.

AS Que

S. D. Breckinridge
Deputy Inspector General

Attachment: -
As stated: .

SDB:pam (7 June 1976)

Distribution:
Bill Sturbitts ~ LA
cl
Ray Reardon - OS/SAG 3E49

03 (Steve Hunt!) Review Staff

=/Rl

Nestor Sanchez @ LA

SDB Chrono
SDB Working copy

TS No. 185246/A__

_ 3
TOP SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
