74-0000

 

|
|
|
|

 

 

 

   

-5- ’ ‘ i

on Havana for 28 July. The plane was to have a large
quantity of Spanish language Prop leaflets containing prop
attacking the u. s. Administration, the CIA, and Manuel ARTIME,
After dropping leaflets the Plane was to drop bombs and retura
to the U.S. FIORINI was to be co-pilot. : : '

3 Nov 64 Marcos talked freely of election results in:

 

U.S. which already assured President's (Johnson) victory,

Called President SOB, Said they would have to go into street

"and fight Since they could not accept President's governm nt,

Did not clarify "they” but it was reported obvious that he:

was referring to minuteen, Marcos said U.S. would be far!

4
better off i President were dead. (WAVE 4643) ; i ie

On 4 Apr 67 POA on Marcos was cancelled. (Saw nothing

dn file indicating clearance had been requested or granted:: 5)

Chris Hopkins
LA/COG

 
  

 

 

 
 
74-0000

a

29-8

BO Nm ee eee

~ ;
- a 2H a

.19 July 59 cable from Havana to Has. requested that

es ene

FIORINI not be made witting under any circunsvances of /plsannee

‘

evacuation7 of ‘Marcos since he was considered by Havam --

Station to be untrustworthy. : !
7 August 59 Memo for Record by reported
that Marcos DIAZ had moved in with Frank FIORINI. ces

told Reichhardt that the Agency did not propose to do any

 

operational work with FIORINI and that it would be necessary

for him to be cut out of any activities undertaken by CIA

fin support of, three Cubans who were planning ops against

Castro7, Reichha dt said that it would be difficult since

the three Cubans were fond of FIORINI and trusted hin,

completely. (See DBA 43686, 21 June 63 in Pedro‘ 4ile

saying that Pedro did not consider FIORINI trustworthy.)
UMWA~9, August 59, concerning the above three who planned
ops against Cuba. Originator of dispatch said that he:
cautioned the three about security; that they should not
discuss with anyone else their plans and should tell the
writer (Patrick 1. KARNLEY) if they did, KARNLEY stated .
“however, there is a close and apparently unshakeable
relationship with people like Frank FIGRINI and other:

\ i
people with: ‘whon they were Close during the revolution’,

I have repeatedly cautioned them about FIORINI specifically °

cece amen eRe ola ee

and they have always responded by recognizing that FIORINI is.

a threat in that he talks too much, But as and if we proceed:

with this ‘group, it has to be done with the expectation that

FIORINI and others are going to be frequently around this

group and we will have only the word of these people that. he and

j

others are not being -inforned of their activities."
i,
L

 

 

 

 
 

 

Ode 10036)

Phe UNTE H A egrene Nese Soe eeteemnnnane, ee et me ena et tems

 

LEASE IN PART
Cl TOTAL DENIAL

wey , . , SECRET

; ' ° 18 July 1959 cabie from Hqs. to

 
  

‘by Dave MORALES, and!

     

25 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Marcos Jose DIAZ Lanz
DPOB 1928, Cuba

oce: 1959 . Deputy Chief of Rebel Air Force,

Brother of Pedro who was Chief of FaR

April 1959 report states that Marcos and Pedro DIAZ Lanz

were scheduled to be elininated by Maj. Raul CASTRO Ruz,

: Commander in Chief of Cuban Armed Forces.

Vana, states that a

   

 

 

Stringer for |Havan Times | contactec Messrs,

American friends of DIAZ Lanz brothers,
Miami 17 July. | brought note from Marcos DIAZ
addressed to Frank FIORINI Fequesting that be yard Sergio:
S

DIAZ arrange escape from Cuba of Marcos, [J ang
cleared CIA contacts, agreed to withhold note from FIORINI

 

 

 

 

pending CIA decision on the matter, Has. desired to assist

Marcos' escape, and

 

18 July to act as cutout te Statica on op. They were met

made arrangenents in

Havana for Marcos’ evacuation from Cuba: in disguise, —

i

, . . i
Arrangements were wade to transfer Marcos to internedtary’,

were sent to Havana on

and

Bernard BARKER, who would take him to Havana Station safehouse,

: Marcos safely arrived in Tampa, Fla. on daly 59 and went; to

Miami on 29 July where he was under supervision of Mr.

i
j

Bernard Reichhardt.
FBWJFK-TASK FORCE”

 

 

 

 
 

peesae

 

 

22 September 1959 Memo for the Record b on
16 Sept. he (Reichkardt) discussed —— including
SANJENIS. Reichardt called @ asked for information
on SANJENIS, According to Reichardt, LORIE says that he
(SANJENIS) was fired from the DIER for ‘anti-Communist
activities and was expected to arrive in Miami the previous
night. LORIE was worried about SANJENIS because of the latter's
previous post as No. ‘2 man .in the DIER, (fhe Cuban card
confirms that he held the latter post.) ,

UMWA-37, 15 Oct 59: "The FBI recently informed me
(Patrick I, KARNLEY) that a source had reported to them that
Marcos and Frank FIORINI had been making the rounds of arms
dealers getting prices for a fairly sizeable amount of small
arms, Warcos made no mention of this. so I did not bring it
up with him, FBI document dated 1 Oct 59 states that FIORINI,
former Capt. in the FAR, was at that time an associate of Marcos
DIAZ Lanz. ,

4 Mar 60 cable from Mexico City, states that Marcos

was souring on the U.S. Marcos said that he was ‘nilked of

information by the U.S. intelligence organizations and tossed

aside . : . )

12 March 60 Mexico City cable. Marcos told, ,u. Ss. Consul

“his manner of entry into U.S. and that the entire op was

handled by ‘CIA including false Puerto Rican docunentation.

7 Apr 60 FBI document. Pedro and Marcos and two others

made a prop leaflet dropping run over Havana 21 Oct 59,
?

}
Marcos said that he helped print the panphicts on a printing

i |
fod

 

 
74-0000

’ ~ o "1

. - . -~ 4+ . :
: press located at the residence of Frank FIORINI, an American
citizen 2080 SW 60th Court, Miami, Fla. ‘ : : . ’
12 May 60 cable from Miami to Hgs. states that there was ‘
a report by local agencies that a force of men, believed to
be circa 100, was being formed by DIAZ Lanz under supervision
of Frank FIORINI. It was known that FIORINI had been giving
field training to small units on the far outskirrs of Miami
toward the Everglades. FBI information dated 5 July 62 states
that FIROINI was involved with the DIAZ Lanz brothers preparing
for ‘bombing and leaflet dropping raid ove> Cuba.
15 Apr 63 ~ SRM No, 8521 - - Marcos was dropped without
prejudice from Der:t. of Army.. : °
May €3 Marcos and FIORINI were discussing anti-Castro

activity. (Reporting from ‘AMCLATTER-1'- Bernard BARKER:~ who

obtained it from FIORINI.) BARKER said that Jack Anderson

- Miami on 3 Nay 63. : i
11 June 63 report from BARKER, from FIORINI; who spoke

!

4

?

i

4 . .

| was very friendly with DIAZ brothers and was expected in

4

i

| with Marcos DIAZ, Marcos asked FIORINI to participate in the
1
i

raid, Marcos said that his group had not only received. the
' . ° green light from CIA but also its active assistance in that

most of the weapons, equipment and money the ops would ‘be
i : ‘
carrying into Cuba were furnished by CIA, The CIA was ; jalso : i
4

providing twin. 50. caliber. machine guns for nousting on the

moppy and ammunition for Pedro’ s 57 MM recoilless rifle..
: i
29 July 63: "BARKER reporting from FIoRINT| uaregs

 

and = FIORINI left Miant for leaflet raid on ‘Havana but vere
stopped by FBI, thus the trip- was aborted. " |. |
37 guly. 63 FIORINI ‘and: Pedro were planning an air raid

pottin

 

4
peer)

i

 
