14-00000

         

, -- > SECRET _

1 ake

‘ : ’

; (a) PRI - The, prevailing opinion vas that the Pit is a
t
H

 

ebilizins influence within tue cowiiry end thas ico solidarity at
effectiveness is increasing. Sb2id the rt te be iy undermined
the country would suffer serlcus 4isomers. fa
aad is verte

 

   
   
 
 
   
  

unier, qoins & transitional period
gauging “grass rocts" opinion.
this effert since the public et iarge kas” tee
Gore corhisticated and more articulate. %4
objective of the FRI is to maintain the “

 

 

 

 

    
 
 
   

(b) Presidential Dlectiens (1970) - tz
thet it is too early to say with a cegre2 of c
idency. As it is iron tragic: salt

2s, the minister of Getezmacion has S
designated one). Zovever, at this juncture
Likely candidate vould be the mayer of iatico
fhe reneral feeling ves that the successcr to

      

   

  
  
 
 

Corona del eset. .

axe Dias Onicz oa i.
woul be a Libera, vo Cours. Lis ble iin: a cine, There :

wes general agreenint that the “Inner Ccurcil* rot make a

Gecisicn concerning the presidenvial candidate until 149 ot the

eerliest. .

(c) “Whe Inner Council” - The grov
viction that netional policy
se2ll voverful committee, comzesed princizally of
Ey. Oliver vas convinced th. 2 poverfal tapiin: cireles of
hove nemtership in this council. de pointei ex 7 this isa issteal
certeinty “since the banks ccmtroled about CU, o- nductxy in
country.” Others vere unanimous that certain lescin; industrialists : oo 1
end comercial interest also were cart rvoueil. fhe
Percieigants vere wiable to srecity amy sirsle se.cca as being co uene
»- ber oF the council ‘and were ursble to dese: 3 Incer Counci. with

eny degree of certainty although severe: well. iSineEss eciers vere.
nentioned as possibilities, such es Eruzo Faglizz, Carlos Trouyet and :
Manuel Islesias Zspinosa.

in the cca-
ng with a

jag yearn
rmuleted by v.

      
   

 
 

 

   

 

 
 
 
 

   

 

  
 
 
 

 

2) The RLPARTS Furor - Mr. Oliver voluntcersi the observetion
that the MAMPARTS exposure as it vas played iu tut ieciean press did
not Lave eny upsetting results in Mexico a3-f2r as le could | tel. ie
geid thot WOFACT handled the situation “exezxen2) LL" and observed
that “oract's ‘public relations officers must d2 cc the highest caltber.-
He olso said that the prevailirs opinion exons Mexicans conceming
these exposures ves sinply: "So what?"

 

 

 
   

(e) EL Dia - Several of the members of tke opinion tint the
most influencial paver within Nexico, at lease for covermment officials ||.
ana other people who may be termed opinion ma 3B, is the nevszas .
Bl Die, which has a circulaticn of approximacely 40,000 daily.
Thewspaper is leftist in tone and generally oussechen on inportcat
dcnestic and international xatters. '

 

 

   

SECRET

Teme ee on amram eee tee mene one em oT RE 8
. _ * .
7 7 5 ok
wr te ka FE Kanes ee ber Et te ~ ov tee. 4

  
 

 

 

AO4-1O175-10184)

   

 

a oe %. {leroy
SECRET LIMUPE-|

MENCBAEDU FOR THY ESCORD

* quBmECT: Honiquartere Briefirg for fepsezentetives of
the Mexico City Anericam Chasber of Commerce. : . .

: 2. This mesoramius is for your informstion only.

2. Tho above mocting took place on 2 ey in the conference rom
of the Headquarters building. The following eembere of the Chanher

1) Mr. dees C. Oliver, masher of ths Boanl of Trastees
University of the Americas ani on publicity camittes
the Jmerican Chasber of Commerce im Mexico.

2) Kr. Villard 3. Beeson, member of the Daltec Benking : .
Corporation, Mexico City. ; : .

3) Mr. Gomer M. Bealey, director general of Compania
Mexico de Aviacion.

' &) Mr. Jom Lacrkin, partner, Arthur Antereon Company, : .
Rexrieos City. . ‘

5) Mx. Jadd Austin, lawyer, Mexico City.

6) hr. MeSetl stringer, president, Stringer & Associates,
Maxteo City.

1) Mr. A. R. Wichtrich, executive with Royal Croun Cola. .

3. The meeting comrened at’ 1:45 p.m. and terminxted three hours tose
later. Introductory remarks to the group vere mada by Iola A who
also introduced the speaser, IDSH B. The other participant wes Dogs C ||
of MH/2. DEH B esve a goneral and lucid exposition on Cuban commmist
activities in Latin Aserica end on the Soviets presence in Kaxico.
Towants the letter half of the meeting tha discussion was turned of
develogenits in Kexico and the United States Chamber of Commerce pate
ticipets were maked to express their viers on the folloring:

1 . . . 1

 

Co SECRET

tae ao ce nae on te

nae set Sigman on

age ds
,

Se re, na age irenennenpte te oe
? °

 

a oe
olbeete 3 i! : :
Hoi, a |
HE E Hi
ct Ae ye : —
ci al ed =
3 aie Big a
uae a gl
. Wis 48
— BGdn ats |
: . Hn ui ay 7
ee mem |

 
a , ib \fereny et
\ Vie

of

 

V4

\' Ny

ok.

Mos wie -
cw Ae atone ata

 
