 

President of the United Stetes vaio de the
agree to rewal hie infonsstion.

$. As Subject apoake Baghish sanevnat’) Lttegiy, ¥ interviewed { ”
safchouse on 19 Decenber 195% Jug) 63,03, 03
vho served @a taterpreter, and the current

cer in residence. I grocted hin fa pee of tor Direetor,
emletacd thet the Latter ves unevaileble, tald aim thet I had been
informed he vae in poaseaston of iarortsat inforastion concer
United States security, Malend and other areas. After @ discusstom
lasting for about ons boar, <bich bas bree tape recorded, Subjeat'a
positioa exerged es follovs: .

only person to vom he will

 

 

 

 

G. Sweept for on taterview with UIA ond the Val, he refused
te disquse his faformetion until be has aa fatervies vith the
President <hich he qstiaates vould be of e tve-bour duration,

. Ge indicated that Ais iofsmmtion ta of such @ meture that it
trenscends intelligence interests and requires Bigh polley

Grelsions. I asked his (f be would agres to discuss bis {aforane : |
tion with|ltr. Bonlenjend be refueed. . .. Of '

cere comer aA.

Bb Gebjeot Res fm hia possession doowments <aich he hae Bet
Gecerihed, but «nick pertain only to Finland. fe has no Gorm nts
@oeceraing hia “master cisa* but claias to heave bese, absorbing
faformticn since 1955 vith ultiaste defection in mind. ile ree
faoed, bovever, to be preeies us to viether his ceeter slam was
Resed cm facts or refleetr4 Als 20m opinion of vaat Cmld bo aone.
Me 414 sta‘e that his faforestion concernsd the Soviet fatelligencs
services “vhich must be deatroyed” and -este ra intelligence services
Smoluding CLA. Be ales stated that there are wany forces (indivie
@uals) vorking agaimet the see, wAich preeambly he is op in a
Poetics to identify.

6. He specifically stated thet bis infomation 412 not iavolva.
Gay imainent atteok agaimet the vest but he atressed that eeoh day of
Gelay vorka agninet Vester iaterete,

J. Vhem {¢ wae pofated out to hin that a2 hed furnished wo duforneo
#fen toon which « recumentetion es te his reliab! ity or vermeity could
be based, he atated that it vas uncescary to “tace  rtak.@ Inphieit . .
fa bis position anpeere te be @ real or fancied suspleion of the ecavrity . ~
or interrity of intallignnes services. ge etates that he has a tateatica
of becoming am agent of CIA but after hia dtaquasios vith the Presidont,

ond if the President adapts his recommendations, he vill te a villing
tollaboretor.

 

8. Ha wae seked to prejarm @ Lotter addressed to the President

a

pears
ecuacl

   
 

‘og t0460-10149

.

 

  
 
    
    
    
  

DEMORARDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central, TutelLligence
VtAr Deputy Direstar (Pleas)
SAC ématoly ILDOT

h. This mamrmdu is for informtion only.

sccoapanied by his wife. . shter, requested ~~
eaylim in the Vaited States froa Halaiokt, at
6:30 P.M. Seleinks tine on 15

cy 3 ,
Visitors’ visas to the United Stetes, Thay left Gelsinkd at
=: @285 KM. vie commeroial airline for

Bay
to Wiesbaden in the Air Attache's pleme. The

fiiged froa
. Prenkfurt to Rew York was vis ub eats, with a security .
. S860rt and ecconpentsd by Hr arrived in Weehington at
TH P.b., 18 Decesber « dney Gre pressatly loeeteg tn 2 safe~ Doe
house coordina’

- Appropriate intergovermental tice has been
information eoacsraing Qubject is etteched at Tab A.

 

eatremaly
Gprsars: getulonly frightened over
action. Daring the rather hestie
there was no opportunity to debrief
tiat he had a “neater plan to

end wae te poseceston of {nforaation eritival ¢o
ead other Ventera povers.
Stoted that he wuld tal to no one except

Kr, beCune ond this (etorviey
was to be only for the purpose of arrenging en taterview vith the

 

~ SECRET

ete baa Midas RES oo A te ing at ie bil d,

  

An ony
RETUR AU
packs peptone |

the security of the
Veet which affected the United States te. Be ;
 

  

vaieh vould set forth his reasons for vislifag to see the President ant

@mplaining vhy ha eculd not disousa hie Maforwation at 2 subordinste

level. ‘This he Bos agreed to do. I algo aeked hin-to tnoluée in the

letter the alternstive if the Preaident found thet the infomation vhicn _

be furnished es tasufficteat to warrant an inkievier, He said thie :

woald Be impolite, but steted that fa euch & cane,
over to the British as hie information

and set only the United dtetes,

 
 

 

|
1

i: ff
Poi od |
e fog G
oe
er er
pet
Por
Por py
ad

 
   

 

    

O-  —tee ne S Na ne o eee mE ee ek ne

Dod,
Pop oy |
Poa | :
‘ t 1 .
oe a ne

 

 
