SECRET.

6. Sr posed the question whether the Office of Security
could identify the formor Kubark employee. Upon consultation
with Jan Beck of TSD (after contacting the Security Officer of”
TSD), the individual who most closely fit the description waa
Henry Edward KIMSEY (even though the handwriting angle was
not KIMSEY's main forte).

7. SR-Flint was notified that it probably was KIMSEY.

8. Flint was also advised that the FBI should be notified of
the information re WIECK and WIECK's contacts with the Soviet.
Flint said that this would be done as soon a8 they had gathered
together all the information. WIECK'a next meeting with the Soviet
is scheduled for 17 March 1986. :

9. WIECK has said that he does not wish to get involved as ~
“a junior spy” and does not desire to report after every meeting.
WIECK also said that he expects to be drafted into the United
Statea Army quite soon and in view of his feelings about Viet Nam,
does not know if he will agree to serve ia Viet Nam.

10. Another angle to the case is the projected cooperation with

‘the host serviced and since it is an operational matter will have to

be solved within the DDP. The French probably are already aware
of tha contact between YEV TUSHENKO and WLECK because itis —
known that they have YEVTUSHENKO under surveillance.

li. There is no record of WIECK in the Office of Security
indices. a . .

Thomas A. Ogden

TAO/pk

 
 

([oetorzot0en|

SECRET

Deputy Chief, Security Research Staff 4 March 1966

  

Thomas A. Ogden

WIECK, Carl

1. On 3 Mareh 1966, Jim Flint of SR Division contacted the
Panes in reference to an Unknown Identity roentioned i in
@aRD 6378

20-4

2. The cable contained an account of the experiences of

Carl WEECK, an American student in Paris and his contact

with two RIS officers, YEVTUSHENKO and LVOY.. - Se ae a ce Semen ee

3. WIECK has been a contact since the winter of 1964 with
‘these Soviets and had not reported to anyone in the American
Embasay. The contacta have consisted of restaurant meetings,
coffees, circus, ete. These meetings have included discussions
primarily of political matters, especially recently a discussion
of the United States involvement in Viet Nam (of which WIECK
does not approve, has said so to the Soviets). .

4. However, when YEVTUSHENKO asked Subject to trans-
late a travel brochure from English to French, WIECK began to
wonder what he was becoming involved in. At thie point, WIECK
wrote two friends in the United States asking advice. One of these
was "4 former employee who allegedly did handwriting analysis
when employed by CIA.” They advised him to contact the United
States Embassy. ,

5. WIECK refused to do translation for YEVTUSHENKO and
was able to tell YEVTUSHENKO that he, WIECK, did not like the
idea of becoming enmeshed in Soviet espionage.

 

“SECRET
