74-00000

 

Peet (. > RETURN TO Cis
Ta Saekgraund Use On
8 » [Oo Net Reproduce

 

5S, There is attached a copy of a memorandum from the Chief,
Assessment and Evaluation Staff dated 9 March 1961, which requests
alias CIA, credentials for this purpose for two psychologists
of that Staff. Due to the exnedite nature of this reauest, it
has been processed by the Cover Support Desk and the Physical
Security Division (Badge Office) and CIA alias credentials are
currently being prepared. They will be issued directly to the
two psychologists involved. As you will recall, eredit checks
were conducted on all of the A&E Staff; no record was found
reflecting Agency employment for the two psychologists concerned.
They will be placed under domestic cover by CCG as a further
precaution.

6. No further action is indicated in this matter at this —
time. : : . . :

  

Attachment: 4
A&E Memo dated 9 March, 1961

KUENKE/ewd (3-13-61)

CLOSED

 

 

 
 

104-4 012040971

 

of,

RETURN TO CIA
Sone, Background Use Only
13 waren ober Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch
FRY : : Chief, Cover Support Desk
z

suByzct ° : COVER, ~ GENERAL
(Proposal ror ARE Assessment of Potential
REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90082 ;

1. Reference is made to my previous memoranda pertaining
to the Subject as captioned above, ending with the Memorandum
for the Record dated 26 February 1961. — _

2, As indicated in the referenced memoranda, CCG has been
experiencing difficulty in obtaining an appropriate. 4
cover activity that can-be used for the initial assessment .c
‘REDSKIN candidates. The activity in is no longer

under consideration for use in this connection. jg

oo 3, After appropriate coordination was effected among the
Chief of Assessment and Evaluation Staff, the Deputy Chief of
SR Division, Tom STRANGE of CCG, and the writer, it was decided
tv the time element it would not be possible to utilize :
24 over unit for the initial assessment. Since .
CGO has no suitable cover assets, they are requesting the
SB/2 Desk, by separate memorandum, to make a survey to come up
with several companies which can be utilized for this purpose
next year.
hh. As a result of CCG's inability to provide an appropriate
cover, the RELSKIN program, for this season, will proceed along
]. the lines that were utilized during the past years, i.e., after
the candidates have been appropriately cleared, they will be
contacted by a representative of SR/10 using alias Agency
: credentiais. The only change in the procedure will involve
~~" -=<—! the dual contact by a representative of SR/10 and of the -
.| Assessment and Evaluation Staff of CTR. Tre latter, a psychologist,
Will be documented with a CIA alias credential similar to
GPR carried by the SR/10 representative; the psycholegist will
the initial assessment in the field. ¢

 

 
 
 
 
  

 

 

we

“A

Pan hoe ee

 

 

hy i.

 

 

 
