 

C

(numbered 40) in a series of sequentially numbered
documents. In fact, we believe that a debriefing
memorandum that is unnumbered, but that appears

to have been iny sequence of debriefings, has~-

been reviewed by the HSCA investigator. That
investigator has been briefed on this and a

written summary has been available for his review.

Chairman Stokes may not have been informed accurately

on this point and we think that the explanation
available is a valid one.

c. The HSCA requests "all files and file
references" to a person not named in the letter,
but who was William K. Harvey. The HSCA has
seen the official personnel folder on Mr. Harvey
for the period requested (1959-1966). The Office
of Security files were also reviewed, but these

had been sanitized to remove references to

personal difficulties experienced by him in a

later part of his career. No complaint had been
made to the Office of Security about the sanitiza-
tion, and they are ready to show these sections to |
a senior member, only, on the HSCA staff.

d. The HSCA request for "the three volume
history and analysis" of the Mexico City

Station was a subject of the subpoena. It is

 
104-10065-10033

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR : Director of Central Intelligence

VIA . : Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
FROM -: §&.D. Breckinridge
SUBJECT : Letter of 11 September 1978 from

Chairman Stokes, House Select
Committee on Assassinations

1. Action Requested: A recommendation for your
approval is at paragraph 3. ,

2. Background: The House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) has let a subpoena lapse without
execution, and the 11 September letter from Chairman
Stokes, a copy of which is attached, lists five items
of interest to the Committee, some of which were the
subject of the earlier request. The five items are
“noted and commented on briefly below:

. a. The letter specifies interest in "mug

books" shown to a Cuban defector. Having raised
the questions, the letter then goes on to say that
this "is nc longer a matter in dispute." The
material ‘has been available for review by HSCA
personnel for some two weeks now.

b. The Committee is interested in "all
debriefing memoranda" relating to a Cuban
defeciscr. This was one of the subjects in the
subpoena and relates to -. A-hriefing memorandum

co

 
 

€

inaccurate to describe it as an anlysis, and it

is more a compilation of terse summaries than a

 

 

true history. It covers a (twenty-two year period \
vd

in the history of the Station from(i947\to 1969,

with a wide range of subject matter that by any

:
f

normal reasoning is irrelevant to the question of
the assassination of President Kennedy. The
rationale offered up by Mr. Blakey is that

he must understand the history of the Station

to evaluate its performance during the investiga-
tion of the assassination. While thejpdsition
has been that this is irrelevant to the charter
of the Committee, LA Division is prepared to

let either Mr. Blakey or his deputy, Mr. Cornwell,
review this. We realize that both gentlemen are
very busy, but the total compilation is too sensi-
tive to let the young men on the staff have access
to it.

e. The request for access to "all files and
file references to.a Cuban citizen" for the period
1 September 1963 through 31 January 1964 raises the
question of the Proenza case and a deception
operation in which Miss Proenza was one of the

targets. Contrary to the statement in the letter,

 
 

 

e

a House investigator was shown the Z01 file for the
period from January 1963 through May 1964. Access
to the operation file. on the deception matter

was denied the Committee on the recommendation

ak the DDO, approved by the DDCI. “LA Division

-certifies that the operation file, for the period

requested, contains no references to assassination
plotting or any subject that could by extension
be related to the subject of the investigation.
The origin of the interest in this was in

Miss. Proenza herself, and the relevant period
about her and any ties to her association with _
the Agency would be reflected in her 201 files The |
Committee interest in the unrelated. sensitive
operation seems unreasonable to us.

3. Recommendation: It is recommended that a

meeting be arranged between either you or Mr. Carlucci
and Chairman Stokes to review our understanding of the
status of the first four items, which have already been
satisfied or can be, and to persuade the Chairman to
not precipitate a confrontation on the. sensitive opera-

tional file.

S. D. Breckinridge
