 

 

 

wet

 

FOC &
OGC 78-1353
3°’March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD | OLS GTR 9 746

 

 

FROM: "Bill Ashbaugh
’ Office of General Counsel
SUBJECT: ; ; }- Contact with House Select
: Ommittee on Assassinations . :

1. Subject, an Office of Security employee under!Department of Defense>.
cover, was contacted by a staff member of the’ House Seléct Committee on Assas-
sinations on 27 February 1978. Mr. Jeremiah Aker arranged a meeting with
the subject to take place on 2 March 1978 in order to discuss subject's knowledge
of the Dr. King assassination. Subject came to work for the Agency in 1974 but
worked for the Memphis Police Department at the time of the assassination,
Subject has previously been questioned about his knowledge of the Dr. King
assassination by the Department of Justice. pt a :

  

2. Subject came to the Office of General Counsel 'f idance concerning
protection of his cover while dealing with the Committee. It was the initial
opinion of the undersigned that a member of this Office should accompany the

subject to the 2: March meeting in order to advise those present of subject's

true employer and ask that such cover be protected since current employment
was not material to their investigation.

3. The undersigned notified Pat Carpentier of the Office of Legislative
Counsel of subject's meeting of 2 March 1978. Myr. Carpentier is acting as
the Agency liaison with the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

- Coincidentally, present at the time in Mr. Carpentier's office was Gary Cornwell

who.is the Associate Counsel for the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

' After explaining the situation to both men, it was their opinion that the under-

signed should not accompany the subject and.that subject should stick with.

‘his Department of Defense cover during the questioning. Mr. Cornwell is

aware of subject's true employer and feels that his knowledge is sufficient -

this advice along to the subject.

‘notice to the Committee at this stage of the inquiry. The undersigned passed

  
 

Prodet0ia6-10218)°

 

ARETE Ps

 

NOTE FOR: Pat Carpentier, OLC/C&aR

FROM: So Gary M. Breneman, OGC

Mr. Ashbaugh's memorandum of 3 March 1978
“has been revised per your suggestion. While itis
not the intention of OGC to interfere i in your relation-
'. ship with the Committee's investigation, this Office
has an interest in seeing that the cover of Agency
von ne , employees is protected while at the same time ad-
~ -vising the employee’ concerning the perils of perjury.
This interest, of course, becomes a duty when the
employee, as in this case, comes to OGC for guidance
., on these matters. It.would seem particularly i impor-
- tant to have OGC input in this matter given the
"sensitive nature of the Committee's investigation :
vis-a-vis the Agency in an attempt to.avoid even .
the > appearance of providing misleading i information.

  
 
 

 

-B G hewh

 
F-90000

 

ce: OLC Uv

aconee Bn

4. Subject subsequently advised the undersigned that he was questioned
on 2 March by four attorneys and one investigator from the Committee staff. He
was not placed under oath, but was asked about his employment to which he
responded using his Department of Defense cover, Subject will notify the
undersigned if he is contacted by the Committee in the future.

bill Claro

BillAshbaugh *

 
