 

  

roa t01e2-t0272] «.

—WWTERNAL USE ORLY WSC PP?

/

) CONFIRE NTIAL ? ZH
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 6
Monday - 25 July 1977

' 23, (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Gerry Burke, NSA,
and indicated that as late as Friday night, Dave Bushong, Senate Select

‘Commitice on Intelligence staff, was still of the opinion that Senator

James Pearson (R., Kansas) would be traveling to the NSA facility in
England, Later, Burke advised that the matter has. been resolved that
the Senator will not visit the facility, but instead will 1% receive a briefing from

the NSA representative in London,

24, (Unclassified -~ LLM) LIAISON In the company of Dick Rininger,
OGC, Don Burns, OS, and Doug Cummins, of our office, I met for several
hours with Bob Blakey, Chief Counsel, and James Wolf, staf{ of the House
Select Committee on Assassinations, to review the Committee's
security rules, non-disclosure agreement, and Memorandum of Understanding.

“We completed negotiations on the first two documents and resolved one of

the two major problems with the Memorandum of Understanding. I told
Blakey that we would try to have our counter-proposal to him either tomorrow
or the next day which he said would be fine.

5. (Unclassified - LLM) BRIEFING Mike Van Dusen, House
international Relations Committee staff, called to cancel the scheduled

29 July briefing of the Subcommittee on Europe and the Middle Mast because

of the pre-recess squeeze on the Committee schedule and the fact that
Chairman Lee Hamilton (D., Ind.) would like to have the DCI appear
sometime | in September,

26. (Unclassified - THW) BRIEFING I called Mike Van Dusen,
House International Relations Committee staff, and told him that, unfortunately,

the Director had another meeting which he had to attend on 29 July and, there-

fore, would not be able to appear before the Subcommittee on Europe and the
Middle Fast on that date. I told him that we would be able to provide a senior
official to brief the Subcommittee which he at first agreed to. He later called
Mr. Miller and said that Chairman Hamilton wanted the Director to appear |
and, therefore, asked that the appearance be postponed until after the August

 

recess.
3, Goa, .
GEORGE L. CARY
Legislative Counsel
ce: SIDCL .- DDI DDA DDS&T SA/DO/O NIO
ve. (G¥inwisy Mr, Lapham IC Staff

‘3. See. Mr. Hetu ; Comptroller

R20oSFTY

USe wubb
POE We bed

   

 
