74-00000

 

6. In September 1961 EE/YA requested-and cbtained:permission for

 

 

Subject to re-estab a member of the’
} onal purposes.
ocial contact with this individual, )) dated back to 1958

when both were stationed in(Montevideo} their wives were also social
contacts.

7. In November 1962 Subject's request for approval of his wife's
proposed part-time employment by the Spanish Embassy was denied by OS
as incompatible with Subject's Agency employment. A memorandum for the
record, dated 19 November 1962, indicated possibility that Subject might
appeal this decision; however, Subject's file reflects no appeal to date.

8. There would appear to be no significant security aspects which
would require further exploration. It is recommended, therefore, that
Subject be afforded a routine re-polygraph.

OOM.

L. L. Thompson
Appraisal Section

LLP :mjs
Cow ed R.

Aafé 3

c/TRs

of
lpeten Ths, fc U 9b03.

Cw
a a
iy

4

 

 
(1079-1098). rom ne , BUAEIERE LSD (

otek :
_+, UNITED STATES cover@enr. Co ©

*“Memorandum.. -*"..
TO : chier > Appraisal ‘Section ° *: DATE: of 76 6 Ss

FROM : OL. I. Thompson
Appraisal Section

sunjyect: HUNT, Everette Howard, Jr.

‘1. Subject is currently employed as Ops Officer, GS-15, DDP/CA
Steff, Office of the Chief. Under the reinvestigation program checks
were scheduled at FBI (bud fram 21 Sept. 1949) and at CSC and police
and credit checks in Washington, D. C., area; results of these checks
were reported negatively. <A review of Subject's file has been made to
determine if a special polygraph interview is in order.

2. Subject has been employed by this Agency and predecessor agencies
since 1945. He was polygraphed in 1953 with favorable results. Subject
was re-polygraphed in January 1957 in connection with his certification -.
to the Department of State

  

_ Questions were satisfactorily resolved and interview disclosed
no reactions indicative of deception to any of the questions asked. Ap-

( Chief of Station, Montevideo, Uruguay was granted.

3. Information contained in Subject's file indicates possibility that
he attempted to cancel his transfer from (Montevideo! by political maneuvering.
The president of Uruguay|reportedly indicated his intention, in private
conversation with President Eisenhower, to request cancellation of Subject's
transfer from Montevideo.

4, Polygraph was waived upon Subject's return, 20 June 1960. . On 22
June 1960 approval was granted for Subject's assignment to JMARC. At this
time all, information of an wnfavorable nature was considered.

5. Information was received 5 November 1960 from{Montevideo) indicating
that Subject had, in personal correspondence with contacts there, (certain
(Uruguayan) officials) been indiscreet relative to his activities in connection
with the Cuban problem. Memorandum dated 24 Jan. 1961 to Chief, SRS/OS
recommended that Subject be given a strong warning concerning indiscreet
remarks and unauthorized disclosure of information; file did not indicate
that any action was taken.

CONFIDENTIAL i Pea

 
