13-00000

«REPRODUCTION
“oeT —— PROLIBITED

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIII

 
 
 
 
 
  

1. DIR 74673 j ‘October 1963 - dissemination
to Department of State, Denartment of the
é ‘ederal Bureau of Investiga-

 

internal Note From ROCCA to HELMS, dated
-March. 1964. [XAAZ-22803 - FOIA "No.

3. Int Ral Note from ANGLETON to ROCCA,. ‘dated
12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809 - FOIA. Now 689
298]

4. Memorandum for RANKIN, dated 1 day 1964;
subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time
in Helsinki on 10 October 1959.
of FOIA No. 758-325] noe

   

 

0052136

‘REPRODUCTION sermr
PROMIBITED

Se tie sate Cee ae oe . : see . : wenn
13-00000

  

SR/CI/Research: S.Duncan:cl oo

‘Rewritten: Rielms/ecd - 1 July 6f

Distribution: Orig & a ~ addressee
- DAP:

SECRET

‘REPRODUCTION =

Ke

 PROMBITED

 
 

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED

Pickard Fetes

Le)

 
 
  
   

 

pace _1 oe —
GOPY HO. aes
REPRODUCTION
a PROHIBITED

oaowny (

cae ee ae

 

OG 2156

House, but it is the intention after it is in final form to be
checked with each of the Government agencies that are mentioned
in it. State Department is involved in regard to the issuing of
the passport to the man to come back to this country and that !
has got to be explained why it was done, the law requires it, etc.
all of which of course we are gathering. The aspects of the ,
Mexico City thing. It will have to be mentioned. It is his
intention to check with the agencies, Secret Service, etc. to be
sure that whatever is said in the report is conférred in and it

is agreed to by the various agencies mentioned. So you will

have that opportunity to go over it and see exactly what is said !
and I know he will welcome any suggestion that you care to make. i

DCI: Well that will be fine. Thank you
H: Good bye.
(tape) mcm

_ ec: DDCI , ae . 4
‘ DD/P

 

~ SERED

REPRODUCTION «=i (ité«CS
PROWIETTED
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
‘PRORIBITED

ee . ( - . lé
ol (602134

aes

 

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN DCI AND J, EDGAR HOOVER
26 November 1963 - 11:20 a.m. on

DCI: i just want to be sure that you are satisfied that this Agency
is giving you all the help that we possibly can in connection
with your investigation of the situation in Dallas. I know
the importance the President places on this investigation
you are making. He asked me personally whether CLA was
giving you full support. I said that they were, but I Just |
wanted to be sure from you that you felt so.

H: We have had the very best support that we could Pos sibly i
expect from you. —

Dci: Good. Well you can call on us for anything we have.

E: We will feel free to do that

DCI: I think it is an exceedingly important investigation and report
and I am delighted that the President has called on you to
make it.

H: . We are trying to do it as fast as we can so we can dispel various

wild rumors that have been circulating as to whether this man

was the right man etc. that firedthe gun. But there is no question
that he is the right man. There are a lot of aspects that we have !
dug up, for instance, with regards to the matter i: Mexice City.
We have now found that the: photograph that was ta cen was not
that of Oswald. We do find frorn our informant do\-n there that
Oswald did call at the Embassy that day and the informant has -
given-us the conversation that he had. He wanted to get a permit i
to go back to Russia and the Cuban Embassy couldn't give him ‘
the permit. The Soviet Embassy stated that it wold take three !
weeks. He had, I think, ‘a visitor's permit for about a week or
ten days so that is why he came back to the United States.

 

DCL: Well, all of that ties in importantly into the story and we have :
those operational sources down there. We want to handle them :
very carefully. It involves some very high level people down
there. Sam Papich and I have talked about that a couple of times.

fze aA :
H: Me. ffeted, ' Who is handling it for the Department- |
; it is our intention when the Bureau finishes the report, -he will

SECRET of course go over it very carefully because it will be a report
that will be released to the public, probably through the White

- REPRODUETION — iP
PRONE
13-00000

REPRODUCTION
| —— BROHIBETED

'6. The second point in the referent memorandum
concerns the paperacthat were available at Headquarters \
on Oswald before. € cho Way of the assassination. Speif-
ically, there waka: ve documents which had been s@ Sto
the Agency befsrs “the assassination. Two of thes iments

 
   
 
    
 
  

te to uss the FBI, two by the D of
Bone’ by<thesUS Navy. A 201 file ov 289248),
pened<o r\gDecember 1960 on the basis’ of< tires
“ER8t of these five doc tS.
records that had b gin
yccemponent. The Mexico C ati aN eporting
ing of Oswald's activi co had. not !
as yet beeh included in the 201 file. Tie tinent cables
from Mexico City were held at the Mexico b¥anch at Head-~
quarters, while the data contained in them had been : .
disseminated to the FBI upon receipt. The cables were
incorporated into the file following the assassination ~

and were, of course, made available to all concerned,
including the Warren Commission.

 
 
  
  

7. It should be noted that no particularly great
urgency was attached to the handling of the records
regarding Oswald hefore the assassination because Oswald's
name had -no par ar meaning before that fatefu

Ss \

8. the facts regarding the records we A aa
before rae carts at ion as well as the maka
computeri ecatte “system were explai

enberss s Commission, an
sien’ 5. members when the
ae 64 for the express

 

   
   
  

  

es Sarters
sposeSok\ viewing the
Strols we employed i record keeping :
and pit 201 file on Oswald wa shown to them

at the tkge. From all I have heard regatding this visit,
the visitéors were satisfied with our records system and
the manner in which we kept our records.

 

Peul liartaan !

Gu02108
REPRODUCTION
PROMIBITED

on between DCI and J. Edgar HOOVER
a.m.

SECRET

RRR
"PRT

REPRODUCTION emer
PROWIBITED
_ REPRODUCTION
PROMISED

. ey . ( ( |
~ CONFIDENTIAL — EX~ 093.L

13-00000 oe . ; . ; ud

   

 
   

~ aaeeeeet on with the Agency

SERS)
“Meiorandum of Conversation, Dan
<“Rather/Les Midgley and the DCI,
‘’” Dated 6 September 1975

 

 

   
 
   
 

1. The referent memorandum contains two points
which require comments. The first point concerns
allegations that were made shortly after the assassination
of President Kennedy and that ve crept up every so often
since then. In one form or 40
that Lee Harvey OSWALD hadgp
The allegations are total&y

   
 
    
 
  

x connected with the Agency.
wrfounded.
id ae gas

2. The facts rege in
SN va

   

   

hecks} thin the Agency at Headquarters

: ON “
a. On 2 Res mba
” Mr. R.G. enor immedi te superior at that time, to

conceivable way.
directly and personally to the degree possible and not
to accept statements of intermediaries. He also ex-
plained that he was following instructions from:Mr. R.
Helms, who was then the DDP and served as one, of ‘the
Agency's key contact officials with the Warren. woe
Commission. o °

b. Although I had already checked the Main Index
of IP (then RID) on the night of the assassination, I
rechecked the Main Index and found no-record beyond
that which I had already obtained .béfore (plus: those
items which had been integrated into. the- records system
since the assassination). There was nothing in the DDO
records which indicated any agency connection with
OSWALD.

 

i
!
| |

c

Recunest Amber \4 N23- 1000. _ , |
"Jor FOIA Review on Noy i976 | RECORD COPY -

"OnFDENTaL aor eas

nepeoouerion a ae
PAOKITTED

 
 

104-10050-10234

REPMODUETION
PROHIBITED

 

 

3. Memorandum for Chief, Ci Staff, :dated 18 Sep-
tember 1975; subject:. Allegations of Lee
Harvey OSWALD's Connection with the Agency.
[EX-10932 - FOYA No. 1188-1000]

 

GUG2404

REPRODUCTION ge = ete

 
13-06000 os

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED

So. CONFIDENTIAL ‘

 

c.
There was no -<@sord in their Headquarters files.
Arrangements: were en made for me to check
telephonicatl yi wit .each DCD base in the US. The

  

 

chiefs Y bases “then serached their records .
and spo) es ote officers. I was then advised

by ay that Nahe fs or their designees individ—

ua Ceheve iets been no contact with OSWALD.

4 SS
en checked with’ Division D, SE Division,
and LA Division's Cuban Operations Group (COG) for
any informal desk records. The results were like-
wise negative.

 

e. Through the Secu Sy Research Section
(GRS) of the Office of ity I had the security
‘files checked. Therefwas o record of OSWALD. : 1

   

£. Although
I checked their Savi RS
on the remote ghahce’ that

something on
CS

files.
ge Ws e the chief of the CI Staff's

_ Administrative Off{ce called the Office of Personnel
- and received the word that there was no record on an
employee or an applicant for employment named Lee
Harvey OSWALD.

‘ records on Americans,

in, and Cuban holdings

Shey may have recorded
was no record in those

  
 
 

h. I also checked the Office of Medical .
Services and found no record on OSWALD.

 
 

i. The Covert Action Staff also foul oo’ record
on him. Se :

 
  

 

j. Finally, I also checked the: ecords-of. the
CI Staff's Operational Approval Group™ { a)
negative results.

k. My checks were complete@ on-4,; December 1963
and I then sent a brief informal note’ ‘bo Mr. Rocca

e

 

CONFIDENTIAL

aeProwucriog

PROBED
13-00000

nero =o"
PROMIBITED = OO

ee

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED

a: ne

~showed that Lee Harvey OSWALD

onnection whatsoever with the
ry a statement to this effect
to the Warren Commission.

   

  

— rated enecrs regarding use or employment

of 0 Dp Bewoeen requested by the foreign divisions.

i priate stations, I was told, and the | .
results were negative. i

 

4. TI recall very clearly that we vere axtreaely
concerned at the time that OSWALD, as an American: returning

- from the USSR, might have been routinely debriefed by

DCD, thus having established contact with the Agency.

The same point has now, quite understandably, beén made
by the two CBS newsmen. Having some knowledge of this
subject I have personally concluded that there is valid

. reason for DCD's lack of interest in OSWALD at that time.

He would surely have been contacted and debriefed by DCD
had he been to the USSR and returned to the US before
1957/1958. Travel to the Soviet Union by Westerners,
particularly by Americans, before that time was quite
uncommon and we were hungry for eyewitness information in
those days. The thaw began in about 1956 and by the end
of that decade were so many persons travelling to
and from the Sopietstnion that DCD was incapable of talk-
ing to all of Ahi Therefore, a program of selectivity
and specitic-Gargee pplicability was instituted. In
light of th@\aBove, Sep seems to me that OSWALD-- if he

Mm at all--would have easily been
simply did not possess the type of

     

informp4tion D was seeking at that time. DCD would
surehyhave ts limited manpower on travellers who
ha ater access in the USSR.

Ss

: a hould be added that my above-described
search in the Agency file holding produced no record or
indication that any other US Government agency had -used
him as a source or had considered him for recruitment.

CONFIDENTIAL

pace 4 of

 

 

16
