14-0000

 

 

 

te

Es

kp gt

2

 

wept Te an

upon his return in 2950 to Japen. YOSHINO eubmitted informetion concern-
ing the locsl Russiens, the new Soviet zitizens end the Russisn Jewish
businessmen in Jepen. YOSEINO has three sub-sources:

(1) OKA (code neme) painter at Johnson Air Force 2ase
(2) TCKADA (code nexe), dreftsmen st Tachikewa Ai> Force Bese,
(3) M&RUYAM!, employee of Customs office in the rert of Kobe.

In payment YOSHINO receives 20,0. Yen rer month frem the Sev Mis, of
wnich he gives 5,000 Yen to OFA anc 5,CC0 Yen to TOKADA. His
contributions were not considered of great value sné btesices the Sevs,
eccording to Source, -ere elweys suspicious of YOSHINO. Ii'«as known
thet he was also an agent for the Jecanese Police, YOSHINO works for
the Shinten Enterprise Co., end it was Source's cPinion the: YOSHINO
es instructed by beth Jspenese erd Americen Intelligence to gather
militery information concerning Sakhalin when he meade a trizto
ceaneiin tor tne vomtany (in ivdcd. RUOnNLAYU naa OeFN W1tN toe Ssovier
Fress, but wes dismissed from this position after-a Gisegreement with
EURAHSSHI, head of the Soviet Press. Despite these suspicicns, YOSHINO
es retained upon instructions from the Center when reports -ere
received that YOSHINO was strongly anti-American.

pg. eh c. Source expressed doubts ebout the integrity >2f only
three egents: "SOM" (see pera 2,r) YCSHING (see para 2, 1) snd
VOEVODIN, Yefim lecel Soviet citizen end Sev. Agent who is suspected of
working with US and/or Jepanede intelligence. ....ccseeeeeeuee

pg. 46
Feb 5h Interview - $reliminary Correction by Source

ecee pare 8 Emergency Plens: SOURCE ststed that the oriy MVD
emergency intelligence coversge ‘es emtcdied in the ECONOMIS and

TATGKSTSU stay-behind nets, YISHINI's wifets- brother (written in nota-
tion reads TAKA), crobebly a member of the JCP, had allegedly beeh
reeruited by YOSHING et the cost of 50,¢CO Yen, but scurce cannot assert
the validity of this operation. The courler is s bookkeerer, code name
"TAKA", end worked on the Fisen WiRU, shich at one time went to India,

but he is now perhsps on snother ship plying between U.S. anc Japan.

"TAKA hes hever been sctivated snd remgins a. paper asset only. soceeccece

 

 
‘toa 10176-10012

© mee

 

v2 |

 

. , SECRET -_ 8

(then Foiled fay

  

 

SUBJECT CF DOC wEwT-

ntelligence - DS-2072 Debrief!as
Reports

. 21

12. TRANSPEQOED 70
- RE FILE mo.

1. Trensmitted herewith ere three (3) eutostat conies of preliminsery
reports frem the debriefing of DS-2C72. These reports ere drafted
from the tepe recordings of the cebriefings end written up in
their present form efter additions end corrections kez been made
Gy tue Ucbrleling personne: 1n tne 11gnt ok suosequent inlorma-

tion. end in some instences rechecxs with DS-2072.

2/ These revorts were not the besis for DS-2072 Field Interrogation

Report No. 1, «nich és been rrevicusly forwarded to you. Thet

report «ss compiled from esrlier érefts of the reports forwarded

herewith . We ere inthe process of revising Field Interrogation

Report No. 1 end interroleting meteriel conteined in the .

ettechments to this Ci-retch which deels with topics not covered
? in Field Interrogetion Report No. 1. “4
:
i

. . /3f_ Robert C. Dexien :
7 Intelligence Officer.

eoee BB. 6-7

(pg. 2 para 2: Source deseribed tha following intelligense operations
. of which he hed some knowledge, either personally or tarough
heersay: 7 4

maoos

i. YOSHINO, Matsuo

YOSHINO was first suggested to Source as A Jevanese ,
language teacher ty local Soviet citizen VOEVODIN, Yefim. YOSHINO :
i then teceme source's agent until source Left Jaran (Dec. 1°46) -hen woe .
~ YOSHINO was. turned over to NIKISHEV, K.I. . POPOV became the
‘controlling officer after NIKISHEV, end then turned him tsex to Sour

FILE THIS FORM IN FELE NO. . .

   

Sim gg7 vos voeseees convene SECRET tae
Ld . . .

 

wae

 

 
