74-0000

 

crev ee

hae “

 

Good. He painted out that one of tho first revolutions to take place in

modern tines was tha Mexican revolution ef Pancho Villa,” “He sai’ that his

fanily had been intinstely connected with this revolution and that he found .
many points of slullerity between the aftermath of the Mexican Revelution — . .
nationalization, agrélen“Yorm — and Castro's prosont moverxats, He painted

out that this was nota surprising situation as Castro hirself spent a
considerable ancunt of time inyCubs and 1 would bo na‘ural thst some °

of his actions should follow this pattern, In addition to ‘the above, Tichbora = .
came up with a number of sugsostions which I believe can bes be. geno into.

at any briefing scssicns:-held between wii and Tichborn, One point uhich 0. |
particularly inprossed me was Tichborn'’s appreciation of the situation, ale
his early recogriition of the fact that one of our prime targets should be
members of the 26 July Movement who have bacome disenchanted as a result of

Castro!ts denagogic actions.

- In order to save time and to allow Tichborn to give the natter
enough thought, I intend to propose to WH Division that Tichbern cone eset
next week for two or three days, to discuss the Cuban situation with - .
representatives of WH, 4t the end of this, he will return to Les Angeles;
get the case uncerway and hopefully will be avalleble to go to Cuba right:
after the first of Januaity. ds sdon as I have cleared this with:
shall have. the travel orders written and ask Tichborn to cera east

     

     
   
  
   
  

   
  
 

Horace &. Davis
acting Chief
- Political dation Division

  
 

oo/tt. Debi geen

 

 
 

 

$04-10174-10052

“

uv

withholding the maxiiaun anount. The Moxican Government on bebalf

governnent official, ©

 

hardship. oo an

  

i 23 keverber 1959
MAERALDAN: PR THE REGED”
SSJEcT

 
 
  

_Seilltant for’ Guba ~ Eaward G, Tichbern (P

  

. “tbe recoipt of an affirnatiy of,
Tichtorn, I talked on 16 kovenber with Kessrs | Oberst, ‘end
Landreth cf XH Division and we decided that I & in touch
Tichdorn, and try to arranze for hin to go to Cuba as socn ae possible.’

The sae day I contacted Tichborn by phone and arranged for Ly meoting in
Los angeles on 13 Noveuber.

 
  

 

as scheduled, I net with Kr. Tichborn at the aubassadcr Hotel —
We reviewed the situation in'Guba in. some

ze

in Los angeles on 18 hovenber.

   
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
    

   

wastinctariy unifortiinate ‘time as he had just been’ we
Government to bring a ‘edvil” suit against those contractors: ¥

sub-contract migratory Mexican workers. It would appear that ‘according to
the agreements reuched between the contractors and the labor forces, | ‘the
contractor's are allowed to deduct the cost of subsistance -on .a- maxizam ef. - ~
91.75 per day} from the’ “wages paid the laborers.:. although in ‘most: {1 tances a
subsistance costs considerably less than $1.75 a day; contractors mo

   

laborers are ‘planning to bring sult agzinst the contractors for. the difference
datween actual ‘subsistance costs and the amount withheld.: -T.
‘thas of course: this vould bé a lengthy affair, however, he felt. "thal
three, weeks 14.11 be sole tine for hin to draw togethe

  
 

 

Gcvesnnent) at
to Cuba r
and gave hin: 3
i penton out. to hin wha! hed he was actually gent outaida ‘the

date and amend the contract which ‘would

  
    

iTiehborn said that he appreciated the difficult
inherent in this type of thing ‘and that he would need sotte tim: to think er
what he would have to charge | without subjecting himself. to’ an undue’ financial

 
 
  

 

3. I was much iuprossed vith Tichborals immediate , rasp of the
difficulties involved end thé type of operation 1 proposed for hints - a
undertake, He immediately caze forth with one ides which struck re ‘48 quite G&

Soc . . arGs3303)

 

 

 

 

 

i
t
