14-00000

 

..

SC SEDRET C

trained CLACKETT in’ radio controlled mobile surveillance.
SCANTLING also has rendered valuable support to the LITAGI?T
operation having sained entry.to the target uader a fabri-
cated cover. He has also cased and orenared reports on the
LIVABBY target _in oreparation for future operations and ver-
forned investi gations of numerous other Station targets of :
opportunity. ile investigated many leads from other audio-..
surveillance operations enabling the Station to maintain ;
current data on various Soviet contacts and resulting in a
recruitment attempt which, while unsuccessful, is. believed
to indicate future potential along this line. -He has fur-
ther been used to develop radio orocedures for the mobile
teams and to rent various properties in support of other

 

“Station operations. The, GERENDE segment, using three base

houses for photography, produced . upwards of 12,000 photo-.
graphs during the year. One base has recently begun taking
motion pictures of Soviet personnel in the course of conver-
sation which have been forwarded to FI/D for possible exploita-
tion by lip reading analysis. This segment also operates the
mobile radio surveillance vehicles. A mobile photography. sur-
velillance truck has been used during the project year for
coverage of various Station targets which do not warrant the
establishment of permanent photographic bases. GERENDE has
also served to rent post office boxes, hotel rooms, ete., in
support of other Station operations. During the past project
year CLACKETT, who returned to Mexico in early April 1959
after Headquarters training, spent the following two months.
being trained by SCANTLING in tlobile surveillance techniques.
He then undertook training of a four member team which was
judged ready for operational use toward the end of the vroject

year. Two additional contract.agents, Wilma J. FIORDALISI and

houise J. MACRINO, performed translation and support functions.

ae

4 _ Appropriate staff components coneur in recommending |
ial .

renew 1

(a) GE-staffr notes that the CI value of the project
is difficult to judge since it apnvears thet mucn of the
material produced remains in the Station for exploita-.
tion. However, ot-Sbacr remarks that the value of the
project should be inereased when the CL LACKETT | surveil-.
‘lanee team-enters into active. operation. Gi-stat att sug-
gests that the Station be queried as to the pretext or
circumstances under which SCANTLING frequently. visits

- Inez Parada de eno, the occuvant of .the.propert
ac scant to-the’.S Soviet, Anstal

 

     

 
 

     

 

 

$n rrr

 

 
 
  
104-10052-10107

 

og SEGRET

om

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P

SUBJECT : Project LIEMPTY (Renewal)

 

‘WH - Mexico : oo:

1. he attached oroject, originating in WH Division, is

‘presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through

31 November 1960. The project provides for physical and photo-
graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of
other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at
Soviet personnel and installations.

2. Authority is requested to obligate $34, 910 from the
DD/P- WH Division operating budget: $48,455 for fiscal year
1960 and. $36,425 for fiscal 1961, subject to the availability
of funds. These sums include $61,910 compensation for five
contract agents (three of whom serve as principal agents for
segments of the project), and sixteen support agents; $3, 500
for vehicle maintenance and commercial carrier travel; 87,500
for operational equipment; 85,000 for maintenance of three :
safehouses; $2,000 for additional safehouse, post office box,

and vehicle rental; $1,006 exchange commodities; $2,000 “key”

money, broken contracts, etc.; and $2, O00 for. the purchase of
information, documents, payment of bribes, etc.

3. The attached renewal request, prepared in the Division

and supgorted by a project review prepared in tne Pield, reviews

  

the activiti tae oregees during the vast year and present

@ detailed 1 nindown of the funds requested. The project

operates in three segments: (a) contract agent Oliver G.
SCANTLING is an independent assst who ig used to follow-up and.
exploit operational information on target personnel end installa-
tions, to case various installations of interest, acquire pro-
perty, ete.; (b) a photographic surveillance team, under prin-
cipal agent Raymond H. GERENDE, utilizing three houses or apart-—
ments and one photo truck; and (c) a physical surveillance team

     

under principal ‘agent ‘Simon .D. CLACKETT, consisting of three.

trained members at the present time. The attached renewal
request reviews the activities and accomplishments of the pro-
ject in terms of these three segments and in relation.to pro-
dect objectives. SCANTLING's contribution to the collection
of operational information--verteining. £07 Soviet ‘personnel and
Lastallations is regarded by the Station as unique.’ He. akso.

 

 

   

 
14-00000

 

oc). SEORET C

(b) FE/OPS notes that while the project review pre-
‘gents a clear picture of the aims and objectives of the
‘various segments, it does not orovide, except in-the |

ease of SCANTLING, detailed indication of the value .or
usefulness of the other. segments, particularly the photo-
graphic activity. FI/OPS requests that the Station pro-
vide such an appraisal during: the first quarter of "1960.
“PI/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage be .
reviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with
@ view to determining whether the LILYRIC activity could
not be safely eliminated and the additional photographic
coverage conducted on a more selective oasis, without
materially affecting overall usefulness. © BI/OPS notes.
-that, in tne absence of further proof of usefulness, ‘the ©
. color photography ‘and moving pictures appear to be an °°
unnecessary luxury. “BI/OPS commends the careful handling .
of the CLACKETT seement and requests: that the next project
action include, examples of the team's progress.”

: 5. I recommend renewal of Project LIMMPTY as presented
with attention to the staff comments in paragrepa 4 above.

Chet
nea Intelligence

Aoproved:

 

 

 

Attachme nos otart
Project Outline LIZery For ¢
: For © :
for ¢/ccD af Se Youngblood

 

 

 

 
