 

104-1005-10014}-~-—~ - ~~

 

1960 hicenat '
-Qra-
~ fag. fg 6

Nbc, idem
Wuatiey p26 of

30 July 196)
MEMO FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Soviet Hunting Societies

1. At the request of C/SR/CI on 29 July 196, efforts were made
to assemble availble information on Soviet hunting clubs or societies.
The following sources were tapped:

a. Defectors -

1) Deryabin - he is on leave and unavailable. The index
to DR-2 and SR CE-2 reports was reviewed, but no pertinent reports
found.

2) - contacted by phone. He stated that he
has no information on the subject. ‘e never belonged tc one, and had
been hunting only once in his life. He did not feel that a discussion
in person would be. fruitful since anything else he might way would be
a “poor guess."

 

 

 

~ Contacted in person by Bob Steele.
had no ormation. At the age of 1) he had known a hunter,
at is the extent of his contact with the sport.
4) Victor Petrov - Peter Kapusta acquired a four page
commentary from Petrov and possibly another defector colleagae. It
is being translated by Serge Savitskiy.

Artamonov - Contacted by Peter K#apusta in person.
Peter will write up the conversation and previde it today early.

 

b. The manual of library acquisitions was reviewed and the
only noted periodical relating to hunting was "Okhota i Okhotnich'ye
Khozyaystvo" which published monthly. The July 1964 issue was borrowed.
A Soviet book listing all(?) periodicals was checked and no publications
on hunting were found under the sections which included "spo-t" and
"Hunting."

c. A review of the past twelve issues of the "Survey of the
Soviet Press" turned up an item about Turkman SSR intens ng controls
on hunting weapons. Copy obtained.

d. After phone discussion with Dan Bowanko of TSD, I went over
to Westout and picked up Xerox copies of several document: me of which
listed requirements for obtaining a hunting license tne was an original
instruction booklet furnished by the manufacturer with =H! shotg-ns.

ea. Al Valpey of OCI was asked about sources of information,
buthe. could suggest only an Intellofax run. Hunt&ay is on leave.

f. The Intellofax section of the library was contazted# by phone.
fhe representative said that there was no catagory on hunting and that
they could only get a run on "sport." They# would check and call cack.

— 10. Tue t toe .
Hey do, wey CAnr PO A Avy OM He NTeMe

_
