 

 

 

up CIN INTERNAL USE ONLY ae

 

A INTERNA LSE ONY?

&

“Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Thursday - 14 July 1977 b

    

17- 0007

7. (Secret - PG) LIAISON Michael J. Hersgman, Deput .
Director, Subcommittee on International Organizations, House International
Relations Committee, Beverley Lumpkin and William Garvelink, of the
Subcommittee staff, visited C&RS Conference Room this date in order to
review files, While they were here, Miss Lumpkin and Mr. Garvelink
signed Nondisclosure Agreements and the matter of our dealings with NSA
was discussed with Mr, Hershman. (See Memorandum for the Record.)

8. (Unclassified - RIK) LIAISON Called Clare Buchanan, Senate
Foreign Relations Committee staff, and informed her that DOD could update
the background investigations of Seth Tilbman and John Ritch,of the Committee
staff,if the Chairman sends a letter making such a request to DOD. She
indicated that she would move on this immediately. :

9. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON I met briefly with Representative
Louis Stokes (D., Ohio}, Chairman, House Select Committee-on Assassinations,
and then Mr. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director of the —
Committee, on security matters and a Nondisclosure Agreement, (See ;
Memorandum for the Record.) In addition, Chairman Stokes gave me a
letter which was addressed to the DCI and concerned the termination of-
clearance status of two House Select Committee on Assassinations staffers.

10. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Returned a telephone call from
the office of the Resident Commissioner Baltasar Corrada (D., Peurto Rico).
The Commissioner's press secretary, Bernardo Guerra, indicated that he
was gathering general information on many agencies of the-Executive Branch
and wished to visit the CIA with other members of the staff to "talk about the
CIAL" I responded that I thought the best way to start was to send him a general
kit of public information on the Agency, which hopefully would satisfy his
informational needs. A kit was provided by A/DCI/PA and forwarded to
the. Office of the Resident Commissioner, Puerto Rico, Attention: Bernardo
Guerra, Room 1319 Longworth House Office 70."

‘i
$ 3 so) Qa
() ain .

ys
S eSnon L. CARY
Legislative Counsel

ect

O/DDCL °3 : DDI DDA DDS&T SA/DO/O NIO a
Mr. (Grinwis Mr. Lapham IC Staff / qo g 8
Ex, Sec. Mr. Hetu Comptroller | :
