 

(ua)

(12)

 

to

(16)

(17)

(28)

Qs)

(=)

with tho Guban inbesay's intention of fostering such activity anang all ~

; say pure cad later nado two tripo to ‘ioxloo and Ountral dmordos using a folso

Shae y LOPEZ cppoars vo bu nothing wore than a hired cumin and ig on

os || SRERET-

° ral/97a. *
* 20choApril 1960. _

disaffected groupe in the country. Ho ocodiraten his work with that of

Fumetio .ZOUE Loptae

e + .
Qonauslo ESPERON. ‘lexiucn shurthand/typie: who hia boon orplayed by the
Ouban Enbasay in soxioo Sity for nore than riftoon yoard. Bho dooa not
take any intercst in politics.

fiancee

Hunberte GROL.. cdosiatant .ttachn’ whe ie in oherge of the iasue and
A

renewal of passports.

Luts GOMEZ. 4 unmmular amployoo who oorfinos hirwelf solely to hie works
lao¢

pote
Gard jus HEPRERL. | Gonsul Gonernl. 4 acnowhat “searved tian whe tends to

koop hizmolf to hinaolf and who doos not ashore tho viows hold by tho. .

provent Guban Govormont. Calas Ply ite
quake ne fe
f grad eo ar ;
arnnndi « §64aniotent antoata’ after CASTRO onw to power in January

1959, LOPEZ was olnted a9 a oeoret cgont of the Fresidcn

 

 

M196 In _conjunotion with G/uH'RO agents in I4ad, ho io worldly coins
tho Ouban oxide greupo and hug Leon omlercd ¢o-plan colo of vielens? against
ge .

Ctawiyor of u group of Ouban gancutore.s

Belosa Gilaa HOT. che wife of the Sovont Suerotary, Ir. antondo Re
MUNTAIGS Laredo, Geilora ON works in tho Consulates

Gcilorita Harta LURBLOYO. is an doodatant ..teagdhd ond helpo Saflerita
Teresa PROGEA Procaga in hor propaganda wor'ts

Ooskos LITRI. Asaistond to the Ocnaul Genoral. 4 noubor of various

Oubon stwlent groups, (TEU docs not appear to be in sypathy with the
eine of the present Cuban Governments

Carlos URL. Press attacks, 08 v v7

Regine PEDRO. has only recently axvived tn iaxteo and eay be ettnd ©

ater sma = ocvencumGEORET BOHTIG

 
14-00000° ; :

Gchad Bmecey fa Exalee Gity

” PATA OF NITORMATIONs Ego é9n03

go0nta: & galfable caura

 

 
104-10069-10332

 
  
     

 
 
      
 
  
   
     

nn | 1o maveray.

HOXGER 3 a HULGEA OP NES ok

REPORT a

   
  
 

 

 

§, Vedeverth __s«APPRGVED BY: Otevart P. ‘
SAIEUTTON UY COPY TO:
6

2itoningten 1

sico Clery 1

    

Havana 1

Rogistry

SP OGHTNGL/TI CFFIORALD CHE.
 

 

(5) € (acs pena) Keates, Vedado (i, AMG Gacy Atiact4, g ) Sagothes thep wlth pease

(6)

  

 

fhe following porecancl ero explayed in ths Oubn Embasey in Uexieo cave.

alae ' CGA

—— vuawo wea 66 2)
Joao sntantd 00 Valdors Ashassadér. ) Although 2¢ wea Inow én

Moreh 1960 that ho had beegfappeinted Ouban drbascadar to Mezico te
cuocsed Dre Galveler IUGIIP, ho haa not yot orrivead) 4 nether of tha
Partido Goolalista Poguler (PoGcPo o Guban | Gas Jerremio® Forty) einss the ago
‘e215, FORTUOIDO Volder ga Peostved in hoa peocived instructions fren the Oubea -
narssoo oamtenrotivitacs against the Guban emlica in
Megigog ? Yes  Sfusd aas

Nae rm we ee

 

Yay Ragardo G. VIMAL Dordngusde Gounsellor oa the Ouban Bxbacay eho hag 5
besa agting ea Ohargd d'affaires cinse the departure of Dre Galvacar
LEIP ; He ia o earcor Qiplomuas but telica hia ariere fron Pablo dgustio
LOLI, Lecata, the Oivll attroh’, and Licuscnand Keetor GAROLA Videl, the
IGldtary Lutachd,

Dare iinnuad QUITIY Layas Fives Uceretary, a8 presend ca leavde 8a p

fr, dnboanlo hs QS Larcle, Goocad Georotarye 4 carcer Afplansd, bud
like lyre Rieurto Us VIDAL Baningues, he takes Is aNicra fran LOA
docata cad CAREZA arena bikes,

(gt 36 ID of ats) eases :

éguatin AGG dcssta, tao Givdd obtachd, CAlG&s Vitod 04
cA (he Czas) cod pani <9 PFORTIE

 

 
   
   
  
 

 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
      

ep . SECRET Tan/s'725 -
20th. bord 1960.

Niaoragua, Guaterala ani the Porinionn Ropublio vho are exiles in is
and against whose govermuonta tho Ouban Babassy 46 carrying out a

prgycame of propoganda and subversion,

+ nr
Cre abe
(7) Pablo iqustin! jb Locate. Civil .tteohd, Tho "adnenge griso” of tho
cae fb £8 . ™ ee
Quban Drbasay. and by far the most fanatical and eotive Oaptroied of ita

wptaft, “Ln. sooata 1s in charge of coordinating all Ouban Govexmmand_

eotivities in Naxtoo agoingt the Guban uxiles k in whieh he is sb
re tn Hoxtoo egatna¥ sto Owen sony tek 4p utah be $6 gy

asaisted by GWROLA Videl. 4 frequent travellor betwean Moxloo Gity and

Havona, {LD Loosta ip said to receive hin orders from Pidel OASTRO Rua

~ 7S ¢, He ig in @osg, almost dcdly, contact with[ravel Lnt Gah
Apeie det BE Sy GRRE) eo pee
Rf CasSHH, “ths THN Goorotary amt Vorul ot the Rusatan Bebanoy tn ertog
Cty, pth ung Lbin pnidcontle pathy tiennsilin nbarca poet

widoh are sent fron Guba in tho Gupan ddplomatde bage

    
 
     
   
  
  
  
 
 

His cotivitacs have
attracted the attention of the liexican authorities tio aro oadd to bo
sasaidoring the possibility cf ampolling both hin, ond othar mores of

both the Guban ond Ruseion Exbvasalca ap "poreenao nan graves".

(8) Lule ABER geutos Tho Oultural Attaché at the Guban Exbaoay who aly

ommoowne linsvl? with hiv work and docs not oliow hinwalg to boosgm

(9)

fotead £00ech3, Colerdo ;
natiouslity, che catersd Usxica in 1954 ea a paldddcal wefugce azul a0 ano
Gina wosed fer tha Usiieas Mindetey ef Edusa¢len es a teaches, Pos rong

   

 

yeose cho veo conjceted with the Hevindente Loxicone par la Pao (thlL Ps @
4
Mauloan Peass iipvonsas) »

us yo Bpe

  

Like oa Pere Say
Wow Babe &.

(29) Griepin EIGUAR Nointains contes$ between tha GQocn EGasay ond werioso

end trade unions dn Iaxics cuang when he premstes agitation am cacarianse -
