14-00000

Oo
|

03

T (——eavisea that sn/2/cz was going to mike a contact with
the Subject and wate hin price to his return to the USSR. It was
pointed out to that thore is a definite possi ty that DOLIUIG
ig a RIS apeate It was, therefore, recvested Got thio office
conduct Sceurity indicies checks ca the above mentioned individuals in
order that derogatory informticn nay be made available to the|Erussels S-S
statiod as on imnodicte ald to their opcrations.

03 . .
Q. tir. C——"—“Inis recently roptaced{"* Jas the

SR case officer for the Subscct.

9- Yor your information an Cpsrational Approval request on the
Subject (C-73912) wes sulmittod to this office via CZ/OA oa 2k September -
1958. CT/OA will be interested in the informtion in this memorandum.

ey

FOR TEE DIRDCTOR OF SECURITY: . See

om:

Robert He Cunningham .

 

Retyped ipjw ay
16 October 1958 a

 

 
‘og t0421-10060

 

a - _ ss zal . : ne

_ EVES LY

. Deputy Director of Security
: (Investigations end Support)

SULITSITY, Boris Yefinovich | (RETURN TO CIA
i 175039 Background Use Only
+ Do Not Reproduce

1. You are referred to our memorendum of this date, concerning
. the Subject, the contents of which you were to make available to Hr.

of S2/2 vho had reauested the information contained there
in in connection with his interest in the Subject.

2. For your information the following is the ‘background concerning
gn/2*s interest in the Subject.

3. On 2h September 1058 wf —3—y gn/o/ce, vas interviewed
concerning the case of Ale:enter DCLEENG, SSD 165551, who is. currently
urior investiga bytuis office in response to a request by, the I0 Divi-
y gion fur af Proprittary Japs wvol to permit DOLEGRG's use ont IVE as oO
Ircee lence writer. Hr. [jadvioed thot DOLBENG had been introducei ta
one Aline MOSBY, free lence uriter, by McKimmey RUSSELL, SSD 83853, of
Radio Liberation. MOSBY wos in direct contact wlth the Subject who was 4
“Russian officiel at the Brussels World Fair. stated that MOSpY
Vans the center of a great deal of activity for the Subject. .

   

&, Ue advised thet the Subject Js the head of the British Diviaton
of Ru@io Moscow and vas on intersreter for the Rusolens at the brussels
World Pair. It 1s understool thot the Subject handled the Russian dele~
gation for VORISICLOV vien he visited the Vorld's Fair. ‘The Subject had
previously been in the Unitcd States vith his father vho vorked with
AVZORG in the late 1920's and early 1930's. Subject had attended school.
in New York City. — ; ;

08 ; .
5. Additionally,[ _|steted that one Carl KOCH, SSD-50001, of
Radio Fre ani Czorge VOLK(eF, aka VOLKOV, SSD 152305, HTS menber
ond stringer for Roncrtyn, both ret PELTPSKIY. Althouch there is no
Atochit Wwpositive Indication of a direct relationship emong KOCH, VOLKOFF and DOLe
ms, om at this writing, there 43 a direct relationship omong KOCH, VOLKQEF
and HOSBY as well ag anong UAITSITY and all of the others.

  
 

2, Chiet
sep. Chief

       
   
   

 

  
 

Ad. & Trang.
Ch. tov Or.

  

. Gal pyle OWN, dated 9 Septenter 1958, states that DOLEERG had
“ vecelved a Lettiir fron a laity felend of his in Brussels, believed to be
HOARY, wherein - she ached bir. wucther he had contacts with TSOFE publica}

aly eriticto ci¢he mogacine frea hor fricnl, £, Bovict official, who she
said in the letter must romin cnonymouss 4 iniei iMatividual was believed to
be the Subject. After assuring her that he could tranomit ciriticism to —
the proper people, DOLBENG received an unsigned letter containing construce
tive, bynpathetic criticism of S\ WOBODA and suggestions for improving its

Ait Ae seine (ee G » ae obureee 4 oe ACD =
Uo uy fect cal OF se “ wennye CJEL, (St B tre, Ofemy bore:

"ho

  

 

tloa\$vojons.in oyder thut she eculd traxsmit, in strict confidence, friend-

 
