   

- SECRET Contipewn Ac
Anti-Castro Activities

time the balance was $250, Three individuals identified with
L-66 in Puerto Rico advised on March 28, 1963, that they had

.. no previous knowledge concerning the date the L-66 raid would

~ take place and that representatives of the group in Puerto Rico
had furnished nothing but money for this raid, It-was stated
the group's funds in Puerto Rico have been exhausted and that
what little money had been available was sent to Pedro Muina
in Miami, Florida.

Concerning the March 18, 1963, raid on Cuba conducted
by members of Alpha 66 and the Second National Front of Escambray
_ (SNFE), our Miami Office on March 29, 1963, interviewed
"Armando Fleites, a leader of the SNFE, who has previously been
identified as having participated in this raid. Fleites
-laimed that all boats and weapons which figured in this raid,
ss well as all participating personnel, are still located in
an area of the Caribbean which he declined to identify, However,
he insisted that no part of the action or preparation therefor
occurred in United States territory, including Puerto Rico or
~the Virgin Islands. He declined to be more specific or to
. identify the participants in this raid, but claimed that no
Americans were involved.

 

  
  

: With regard to the use of British territory in connection
Shes swith these raids, it is noted that the British territory in
: closest proximity to Cuba is the Cay Sal Bank, located 40 miles
from the northern coast of Cuba. This Bank includes many
uninhabited islands and stretches over hundreds of miles of
“ water. A representative of British Intelligence who is located
' at Nassau, Bahama Islands, advised our Miami Office on March 19,
1963, that the British Government in the Bahamas has very few
patrol boats and that the Cay Sal is difficult to patrol because
. of its great distance from Nassau, He acknowledged that the |
majority of recent anti-Castro raids have reportedly been :
conducted from islands located in the Cay Sal Bank.

- 6 =

SECRET CsnFipesinc. -

    

HW 49061 DocId: 32276635 Page 7
SECRET
Anti-Castro Activities

requested to recruit members in each platoon of the regiment
~~>---—composed of Cuban trainees and to attempt to secure small
: arms, explosives and ammunition. Dr, Carrillo was quoted as
stating that his organization had plans to form small groups
to conduct raids against Cuba from a land base or from a ship.

On March 29, 1963, Fort Jackson authorities furnished
the following additional information obtained from their :
source concerning the Montecristi group at Columbia, South Carolina.
Reportedly, this group had numerous .50 caliber and .30 caliber
machine guns, as well as 75 and 20 millimeter cannons, with
ammunition, The leader of the group was identified as
Sergio Lopez Mesa, an instructor at Benedict College in Columbia
who allegedly is married to the daughter of Jose Miro Cardona,
well-known anti-Castro leader. According to the source,
tentative plans had been set up for a small raid on Cuba in
the immediate future, possibly during the week end of March 30-31,
1963, primarily to secure publicity on which a fund drive might
be based, The source, who was in close touch with leaders of
the group, reportedly left South Carolina on March 29, 1963,
en route to Florida, carrying "action plans" of the group which
he would give to Dr, Carrillo. The source reportedly would
keep Army authorities currently advised, including full details

“of any raids to be conducted when plans were formulated.

This source further advised that the Montecristi group
planned a raid on the mainland of Cuba in the future with the
raiders wearing United States Army fatigue uniforms, so as to

_.give the impression that the United States Army was attacking
Cuba. In this regard, Fort Jackson authorities advised on .
March 29, 1963, that about 80 fatigue uniforms have been reported
missing. The Army source further reported that Leslie Nobregas,
described as a boatman in the Miami area, reportedly handled the
securing of boats and acted as a naval guide for the various
anti-Castro raiding parties leaving from the Miami area. Nobregas

. was said to be currently in a Miami hospital suffering from a
recent heart attack.

Sources of our Miami Office have advised that the
Agrupacion Montecristi group, with headquarters in Miami, is
headed by Francisco Carrillo and its membership is made up
primarily of professional men, including lawyers, bankers and
physicians, The group is affiliated with the anti-Castro
federation, the Cuban Revolutionary Council, and reportedly
receives funds from that organization.

-4-
SECRET

  

M¥ 49061 Docld:32276635 Page 5
 

HW 49061

 

Anti-Castro Activities

 

esa

 

: On March 30, 1963, authorities at Fort Jackson
advised our Savannah Office that there were no known shortages
of weapons at that base. Fort Jackson officials are conducting
a check to locate the missing fatigue-type uniforms and to
definitely establish whether all weapons assigned to the base
can be accounted for. Our Miami and Savannah Offices are
conducting expedite inquiries concerning the Agrupacion
Montecristi group pursuant to the request of Assistant Attorney
General J, Walter Yeagley, who authorized an investigation on
March 30, 1963, to determine whether there are possible violatons
of neutrality statutes, United States Army authorities have

' made dissemination to interested agencies and to the International

“Situation Room at the White House of the data secured from

:! the Army source relative to the activities of the Agrupacion
_Montecristi group. .

‘On March 28, 1963, our Miami Office interviewed

Felipe Vidal Santiago, who identified himself as Secretary. of

an anti-Castro organization known as the United Front of National
Liberation. . Vidal, who had been previously identified as an
anti-Castro leader who planned to head a strike against targets
in Cuba, denied making any plans to attack Cuban targets. He
said his organization had been in contact with the anti-Castro
underground inside Cuba and had been making plans to infiltrate
supplies and weapons to those individuals, but had canceled such
plans after learning the Castro government had wiped out those
individuals to whom the supplies and weapons would have been
sent, Vidal noted that his group did not own a boat and actually
did not have the capacity to get the supplies and equipment into

- Cuba since the person who was to lend his organization a boat
failed to produce the boat when needed.

On March 29, 1963, our San Juan, Puerto Rico, Office
advised that the L-66 group which carried out the attack on the
Soviet vessel had filed a certificate of incorporation on
December 4, 1962, under the name Comandos L 66, Incorporated.
Its principal office in Puerto Rico was listed as Bayamon,
Puerto Rico, and Pedro Guillot Solis was given as the person in
charge of the office. An account was opened on behalf of this
group at the Santurce, Puerto Rico, branch of the First National

City Bank of New York with a deposit of $76.75 on November 26,

1962, The account was closed on February 19, 1963, at which
a 5H
“SECRET

 

DocId:32276635 Page 6
-+ In Reply, Please Refer to

HW 49061

BE Vowngended An ARRE ceview

 

+> Comsrogemiac, Sles ( _SEGRET Covrennnay 5 G : Qg
i Bo, : . a
' Pewspine NU 15> *9G }
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ~ wo7 Chaar

. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION Cy Bogan

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

April 1, 1963
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

On March 29, 1963, our Savannah, Georgia, Office
interviewed Private Santiago Alvarez Fernandez, a Cuban trainee
stationed at Fort Jackson, South Carolina, with the United States
Army. Private Alvarez identified himself as the son ef Doctor
Santiago Juan Antonio Alvarez Rodriguez, owner of the yacht
"Alisan,'t which reportedly was used in the raid against a
Soviet ship off Cuba on the night of March 26, 1963. He said
his father had telephonically contacted him from Miami, Florida,
on March 28, 1963, to advise that he was back home safe and
that the raid was successful. He quoted his father as stating

. the remainder of the raiding group had returned to a base,
‘which was not. identified.

On March 29, 1963, Santiago Juan Antonio Alvarez
Rodriguez advised our Miami Office as follows:

He was formerly a Senator in Cuba and-a doctor in
Mexico.- He resides in Miami and is unemployed at the present
time but owns and operates the "Alisan," which has two diesel
engines. The "Alisan" left Miami on March 17, 1963, and went
to the vicinity of Orange Key on the western edge of the Grand
Bahama Bank of the Bahama Islands, and thence proceeded north
to a rendezvous with a 23-foot boat which took place on March 18,
1963, between Cat Cay and Crange Key. The 23-foot boat was
taken into tow with the intention that arms hidden in three
separate locations in the Bahamas would be picked up. Bad
weather forced a delay, but on March 24 and 25, 1963, some
arms were collected. The 23-foot boat was used to make the
attack and seven men participated. :

After the attack, the 23-foot boat was then used to
return the arms to the hiding places, and the "Alisan" subsequently
towed it to a point near the Miami shore. The “Alisan" is
presently docked at North Miami Beach, Florida.

“SECRET (onrivemae

GROUP lL
Excluded from automatic
' |aowngrading and
. Ja@eclassification

“DECLASSIFIED
0.12953, Sec. 3.5,
G5 tek Exe tial

  
   

Docld:32276635 Page 2
JFK Assassination System Date: 5/5/2016
Identification Form ‘

Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: _ 176-10030-10164

RECORD SERIES: NATIONAL SECURITY FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information |
ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:
TO:

y

TITLE: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DATE: 04/01/1963
PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
CASTRO, CUBA, EXHILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: ‘Redact
DATEOF LASTREVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: SANITIZED 5/8/98

COMMENTS : NSF: countries: Cuba: Subjects, exhiles, 4/63

—____———e_———————— ew
v9.4 33
HW 49061 DocId:32276635 Page 1
AW 49061

m=

SECRET
Anti-Castro Activities

Dr, Alvarez refused to pinpoint the location of the

- . hidden arms and would not identify the other participants, He

declined to identify where the "Alisan" was stored in Miami

prior to the raid and would not give the present location of
the 23-foot boat. He claimed the arms used were supplied by
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and were originally to
be delivered to Cuba prior to the April, 1961, invasion, :
Dr. Alvarez said he made 30 or 40 trips to Cuba prior to the

' April, 1961, invasion, and that these trips were made for CIA,

He indicated he carried many loads of arms on these trips and
hid some of them on small deserted islands in the Bahamas.
According to Dr, Alvarez, these hidden arms are used by him
in operations against Cuba and these arms were used in the
March 26, 1963, attack.

Dr. Alvarez said an individual named Thompson, who
lives at Cay Sal in the Bahamas, has cooperated with him in
the past by warning that a British police boat was on the way
to Cay Sal, which allowed Dr. Alvarez time to unload, arms from
the "Alisan" to be hidden ashore before the British police
searched the "Alisan" and found no arms aboard. He said the
bomb used in the March 26, 1963, attack was made in the Bahamas
with materials brought from the United States. He denied that
any arms used in the attack were taken out of the United States
or that any were brought back into this country.

According to Dr. Alvarez, the "Alisan" frequently
makes trips to the Bahamas to engage in anti-Castro activities
and is usually stopped and searched by United States authorities
on its departure and upon its return, He said no arms are ever
found aboard. Dr, Alvarez also noted that British authorities
have stepped up patrolling activities around Cay Sal Bank.

Dr, Alvarez said his anti-Castro activities are financed by

friends and noted that the March 26, 1963, raid used up all

the available money. He denied receiving any United States

aid or backing for the raid and said no Americans are in any
way connected with his group.

On March 29, 1963, our Miami Office interviewed
Eulalio Estevez Viera, a native of Cuba presently residing in
‘Miami, who admitted participation in the raid. He said he was
picked up at his residence on the morning of March 18, 1963,
by Cubans whose names he did not desire to disclose and intended
to accompany them on a trip to Cuba. His account of the raid

- 2 =
SECRET

 

DoclId:32276635 Page 3
ae

SECRET
Anti-Castro Activities

was similar to that furnished by Dr, Alvarez and he admitted
that Antonio Cuesta and Antonio Perez Quesada participated in the
. Yaid, as did Dr, Alvarez, — .

Antonio Cuesta del Valle told our Miami Office on
March 30, 1963, that he participated in the raid and had
originally left Rama Marina, North Miami Beach, Florida, on
March 18,.1963, in the 23-foot boat. He said the "Alisan"
had also left from Rama Marina. CGuesta, a Cuban national who
entered the United States as a parolee in June, 1960, described
the raid substantially as did Dr. Alvarez and Eulalio Estevez
Viera, and added that approximately 20 cannon shells were fired
into the Soviet vessel,

Cuesta named seven additional Cubans as participants

in the raid and said two non-Cubans, Andrew St. George and an
. unidentified assistant, did not participate in the actual
' attack but remained on the "Alisan" while it was going on.

; Agents of our Miami Office observed the "Alisan"

at the Rama Marina in North Miami Beach on March 29, 1963. The
'dockmaster at the Marina stated it arrived there on March 28,
1963, and that six Cubans left the boat following its arrival.
Our interviews with individuals having firsthand knowledge of
this matter are continuing. ,

It is noted that CIA has previously advised that it
had no connection whatsoever with the March 26, 1963, raid.

During the interview of Private Alvarez at Fort Jackson,
he claimed that other Cuban trainees at Fort Jackson,had told
him small arms, ammunition and hand grenades were being stolen
by the trainees. A check with military officials at Fort Jackson
by our Savannah Office failed to substantiate that any such thefts
had occurred. .

On March 28, 1963, a United States Army representative
at Fort Jackson advised that an Army source had learned of a
meeting in Columbia, South Carolina, on March 24, 1963, of the
Cuban exile organization known as Agrupacion Montecristi.
Reportedly, 12 Cuban trainees from Fort Jackson attended this
meeting, which was directed by the group's General Secretary,
Dr. Francisco Carrillo of Miami. The trainees reportedly were

- 3=—
“ SECRET

 

AW 49061 DocId:32276635 Page 4
