 

 

. yee

Mr. MeCone:
None what. so évax,
- Eenator Stennis:
I say I wae avoiding the interference

in the record or even in the Committee |

 

bat this ie a matter of Judgement and
you certainiy don't aes any lessening of
the military strength after the with-

, arava of the 5, 000.
ep. 93-95, Testiuony Stennis Comittee)

k FACTS:

Since the departure of thé last contingent of the TL-28 bombers and the personnel.
aeconpanying then, we have observed no Significant changé in Soviet military forces in
Cubs. ‘There have been some small Shipments of miLitary-associated transport and a
number of large crates which could contain additional coastal defense cruise missiles
arriving in Cuba, However, there havé béen no major changes in the personnel

. Situation. Mr. MeCone’s étetement that, "We are continually getting interéepts, one _
a recently as yesterday, speaking of going home, but we interpret this trom our \
observation as rotational rather than a withdrewal," 1 confirmed es essentially the
Interpretation of the Intelligence commnity. On this. basis we would consider the
p regent aituation as oné of neither build-up nor reduction but rather static.

Régarding Mr, MeNeméra's statement concerning, "A lessening military threat,"

 

 

/ Pom thé standpoint of offensive capabilities against the United States as currently
known end estinated by the Intelligence commumity, this would be p correct statenent,
with hae yemoval of the offensive MREMs and the IL-28 bombers, 3 the military threat of

Cuba Wiese fis the United States is lesa than it wae prior to this action on the part

  

 

of the Seviet Union, However; these” ‘WET évidence to show that this is

£6,

[og

DoclId:32424689 Page 9

Ge OLUNET a

 
 

We SfCRrT

@ continuing woveméent but rather that it hac been completed,

 

SONCTUSTONS :

The statement concerning "A lessening military threat" in the context of
offensive capabilities against the United States as currently imown and estimated
4g 6 cowrect statenent. \(Leae tian prior to the removal. of the MREMs and 12-28
bombers.) -

There is no definitive evidence to show that thie is a continuing wovement

but rather that the movement has been completed.

 

 

 

 

Docld:32424669 Page 10

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DoclId:32424689 Page 6

have aécésd to the same facta?

CS Skppey

 

validity of enother witness! testimony,
that is for the judge or the jury te
decide, and particularly we wouldn't
want you to havé to pads on Mr.McNamara's
testimony,

But how could there be such, a

aifferénee in youx testimony? De you

Mp, MeGone:

Yes,
Senator Stennis:

Yourself?
Mr. MeCone?

Yes, we have access to the sane
facts, It ta * matter of judgement.
Senator Stennis:

A matter of judgeuent only?

Mr, McCone':

I have expressed by views and I
think, Mr. Chairman, you ill Have to
ask Mv, McNamara bow he reachéd his
conclusions.

Senator Stennis:

Tt is highly commendable thet you
aid and I was avoiding any pérgonal
égonflict between you.

 
 

 

 

t

 

SECRET

has been reduced by the Disém Barkation,
removel of about 5,000 men from Cuba and
thelr shipment to the Soviet Union, leaving
a@ total of about 17,000 Soviet military
personnel including technicians in Guba

(p. 35 + Special, Guba Briefing, 6 Fed 63)

Question: (Unidentified + Believed to be

Ann Bordone, Northern Virginia Sun)

Mr. Seoretary, I gather from what you
gay that in redent Weeks Cuba has became
less of a military thréat to the United
States than 1t was at the time right after

the crisis, after the missiles and the

bombers were removed, less of @ threat in
the dense of, I think you daid, 5,000
Russians had returned to the loméland,

Tt is a lessening threat to the United
States, from what. I gether,

 

Cuba is a lessening military threat
to the extent that the military personnel
of the Soviet Union and they equiprient are

being removed. As you point out, 5,000 Soviet

military personnel have moved out in the last

Sight. or nine weeks, and there appears to be
some continuing movement out.

holds, I can’t say..

(o. 50 - Special Cuba Briefing, 6 Fed 63) w See ee

¢

DoclId:32424689 Page 7

What phe future

and thé bombers were removed, It 18
assumed that thie personnel are the ones
that were in charge of these units and
responsible for them, and also possible
some collateral support and security .
forces in conection with those particular
Weapons systens, .

Thé removal of the troops occurred
almost concurrently with the removal
of the equipment.

Now, since than we have observed ~
what we feel is a relatively static .
situation with, as I seid yesterday, |
with some rotetion, We are continually
getting intereepts, one as recently
as yesterday, speaking-of going home,
but, ve interpret this from our observa-
tion es rotational rether then a
withéraval.

Senator Stennis:

 

If counsel would yleld just there,
Mr, Molfamara, that very point there,
about the Beeretary saying it was 2 iN “
leséening, here are his exact words as

quoted here im the morning paper, "4 ‘Y

We have a
rule in the courtroom thet ve won't,

lessening military threat."

2 witness to pass on the

god

 
 

 

 

definitive count of frog milssilea in Cuba or any indication of outshipment of

... f20g missiles. Therefore, the estimate of between 24 and 32 frog miasiles
in Guba rémaing the best figure. It should be noted that this is an estimate
net acount. The estimate is based upon what was seen by photography coupled
with knowledge of Soviet organization and practice.

On 28 Fecember 1962 high-level phatograghy revealed ten prebable freg
misaile transporters on the dock at Mariel, No frog missiles ox frog missile
launchers were detected. A Soviet merchant ship was simultaneously phote-
graphed approaching the dock at Mariel on which these transporters were
detected. Photography on 29 December 1962 tevesled uo frog missile trans~
porters or associated equipment on the dock at Mariel but the merchant ship mee
had not departed. Whether the transporters were loaded aboard this vessel
and placed fn the hold ez whether the merchant vessel unloaded additional —
frog migsiisa which were transported by the ten transporters to sore other

_iecation in Cuba, we do not know. The presumption by CLA cand the Watch

Committee wa that the transporters were loaded aboard the ship. ABaced
upon avrangément of transporters. } 4
SONCLUSIONS:
The estimate of 24 to 32 frog missiles was made on 9 November 1962 and
vermains unchanges.
Mz, Kendell refers te Frog Missiles being shipped gut, Me. MeCone refers
te Frog Missile Launchers presumably leaded on a ship, and Mr. McNamara refers

to Egu

 

eat Asgoviated with Tactical Recket Unite started to bemmoved out. CIA.
and the Watch Committee preaume that the Forg Missile Transporters were loaded
aboard ship.

DoclId:32424689 Page 5

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.» Along with this equipment removed ‘Mr. MeMemara also indicated

from Cuba, we estimated that 5,000 Soviet thet he considered Guba to be a od

 

soldiers and technicians have also depart- lessening military threat since

’ ed the island, Remaining in Cuba, there- a wilitary people and equipment are
fore, aie the defensive weapons systems / being moved out, I think this ie a
shown, here et their deployed locations, dirget quote, “here appears to be
along with the approximately 17,000 Soviet some continuing movement. out." This
troops. and technicians. ie contrary to the information at least
(p. 32 ~ Special Cuba Briefing, 6 Feb 63) Thave. My information ie that after

‘Mr, MoNemara : the missiles and the TL-28e were moved

 

In summary, then, Indies ond gentle- out, With the reduction that you have
tet, we have recorded the entry of Soviet indicated to 5,000 personnel there has
offensive weapons systems into Cuba and we only been & rotation of people home
have reported the introduction into Cuba and @ continuing movement in of the
of a substantidl quantity ef Soviet military supplies and apare parts and backup
perdonnel and Soviet militery equipment, svimmnition for such things as SA-2,
defensive arms, Soviet wilitary personnel WLLL you corment on that?

on the island, including technicians increased, Mr. McCone:

 

we believe, to A totel of approximately Yes, sir, we observed the withdrawal
22,000 by roughly the lst of November, of what appears to be about 5,000 men
That total, as Mr. Hughes reported to you; at the time that the MREMs and the IREMé

WS Seche

DoclId:32424689 Page 6

 
 

 

 

LY TE SECRET

HOFORN

SUBJECT: Apparent Contradictions: Mr. McNamara versus Mr. MeCone

In response to your request, attached are three separate papers
addressing the three apparent contradictions concerning FROG miasiles,
‘the "static situation,” and submarine bases.

Each of these papers presents in sequence the relevant statements
or testimony with an indication of source, the facts pertinent to the
testimony as provided by DIA, and a brief conclusion. Some statements
by Me. Hughes of DIA have been included since these statements are used.

as a reference point in your subsequent statements.

DoclId:32424689 Page 2

 
 

 

JFK Assassination System Date: 6/24/201
i Identification Form

 

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: — 198-10009-10079

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

 

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :
FROM:
TO: SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

TITLE: © MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE - APPARENT CONTRADICTIONS: MR.
MCNAMARA VERSUS MR. MCCONE

DATE: — 00/00/0000
PAGES: 12

SUBJECTS :
- MCCONE, JOHN
MCNAMARA, ROBERT
SOVIET MILITARY PRESENCE IN CUBA - FROG MISSILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: — Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 3. Memo to the Secretary of Defense re: apparent contradictions made
in statements by McNamara and McCone concerning Frog missiles in Cuba.

SEK Grou ioc

Department of the Army EO 13526
c eclassify Exclude “ Exempt
Authority, -

© Refer To
review Date PUGIG BALL GLa»

 

 

v9.1 46
Docld:32424689 Page 1
 

 

°

   

This photograph wae taken of the LaBoca
Ber area (Mariel) on 27 Dee 62, Again our

ee alrereft are sweeping back and forth and

eo

observed this Soviet ship moving into the

 

“herbor area from out in the ocean sector,
at that time, we also observed parked at

:, dockside 10 probable frog missile trans

    

 

porters along With their support equipment..
vo. Rie ship pulled in, this equipment was

apparently loaded, and moved away frou the

  
 
   
 

604 area, This is one of the first

tographs that we have firming up at least

 

 

 

 

he fact thet seme of the Soviet tactical
rocket forces have departed the deland,.
/ /y (p. 3h - Spectad Cuba Briefing)
Yes Netemara
oi Recently, our reconnaissance has
. Revealed that certain equipment of these
Soviet @ombat. forces, namely that associated
whith the tacbical rocket units, has alse
started to be moved out of the island back
i it the: Soviet Union,

cr 36 « Special Cuba Briefing)

 

 

 

 

Docld:32424689 Page 3

APPARENT PROG MISSILE, CONTRADTGTTON

STATEMENTS :.
Me, McNamars Mr. MeGone ,
Mr, Hu (Briefing) Mx. Kendall:

 

_ : 7 - — a wa? SECRET

Mr. McNamara said aleo, I believe,
My. MeCone, that the frog misailes vere
being sent back to Russia, ‘There has
been no previous inentton’ by anyone that -
any of theae have been shipped out. What,
ig your postition on this?
sCone:

 

Mes

  

Some six weeks ago} we noted that,

ten or 12 frog missfle leuchers were on’. es

 

the dock at Martel, I believe, and. :

presumably were loaded on-a ship, / We oa

 

dontamued to carry the number of missiles,
of frog; wissilesa, and launchers, tn’ Me

‘ . Phe Gg
Gube that I mentioned yesterday, which ‘the

 
 

rengé is 2h to 32;
Mr. Cline:
That ig the missiles themselves.
Mr. MeCone: . ;
Those aré the missiles themselves,
Mr, Kenda: .
Hlavé you ever earried more than that
estimate?
Mr. MeCone:

I do nét belie so, no, ‘
(>. 93-Testimony before Stennis Committee ye

 
TE a ETT ES

 

 

 

 

“Qh SECRET! HoroRw

John Seali, ABC:

Mg, Secretary, you said that certain
equipment associated with the remaining
Soviet forces has started to move out,

Can you give us some details on that and
what you think it means?
Mz. MeNamarat

Yes, I don't wish to over-emphasize
this point, I don't wish to mislead you —
irito thinking that there are clear indica-
tions that the four Soviet combat forces
which I des¢ribed as having on the order
of 1,200 men apiece, roughly 5, 000 in total,
are at the present time moving out of Cuba.
But it is a fact that certain of the equip-
"ment formerly assigned to those forces,
specifically certain of the rocket equipment
has been moved out of Cuba, What this
implies for the future, I can't state.

(p. 39, Special Cuba Briefing)

FACTS:

On 6 November 1962 low-level photography revealed five probable frog missile
transporters and two probable frog missile launchers at the Remedios Military Gamp.
On 9 November 1962, a sixth probable transporter was sighted. Based on these figures,
plus the existence of four such major Soviet military camps, it was estimated that
from 24 to 32 frog miasiles were probably in Cuba (assuming 3 or 4 missiles per
launcher), Subsequent analysis of all photography to date fails to reveal any

Wess NoFoRw

DoclId:32424689 Page 4

 
