 

 

 

 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Chicago : % ilineis

File No.

Harch 1é, 1965

 

A bigbig éontidential Giicags inforsant advised that
after Alex and Aig peramcur, Susanne Pueger, agpived boxe fron
theiy recent Kurcpean trip, Alex recelved a letier from the
Seiew Consulate in Chicago notifying bie Re hag been banned
fron Sviteerland entil dauwery, 1875.

Alex's concern Ass increaged considerably because of
this erder and he bas wuatil March 31, 1966, ta appenl the order.
flex contends he will send an attorney to Geiteerlaad to fight
this watter if necessary.

Alez ig hams to hove frequentiy discuseed banks in
Sei teerlaad ead hee been observed la Swiss beaks by the Srisa
Police. This cospled with Alex's great concern over the bann-
iag makes it appear possible that be ims gands presentiy ia the
Ssiss Bank. ; -

Chicage is Bweiting further inferemntion regarding use
of false idestification by Pueger while in Paris. Chicago is
desivous of obtaining falh details vegerding the csuse of thia
investigation in Seiteeriand and Preaeee and any offerte muade by
flex in bic defense, regarding the above matter, muay disclese
other interests in Seitzerland besides shiing and reerention..

It is noted. that upoa arrival at U8. Ssstons, O' tare
Field, Calengo, Freger.was found to possess twee mink ecate aad

YYh> QV eqs at

DoclId:32556634 Page 2

 
 

 

a
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to Chicago, Illinois

File No.

March 16, 1965

GUS ALEX, Also Known As

ANTI-RACKETEER ING , EVROFE - FA. NOE...
ee cea EUROS | eS

A highly confidential Chiqago informant advised that
after Alex and his paramour, SuzanneStyeger arrived home from
their recent European trip, Alex Yéceived a letter from the
Swiss Consulate in Chicago notifying him he has been banned
from Switzerland until January, 1975.

Alex's concern has increased considerably because of:
this order and he has until March 31, 1965, to appeal the order.
Alex contends he will send an attorney to Switzerland to fight ©
this matter if necessary.

Alex is known to have frequently discussed banks in
Switzerland and has been observed in Swiss banks by the Swiss
Police. This coupled with Alex's great concern over the bann-
ing makes it appear possible that he has funds presently in the
Swiss Bank, :

Chicago is awaiting further information regarding use
of false identification by Fueger while in Paris. Chicago is
desirous of obtaining full details regarding the cause of this
investigation in Switzerland and France and any efforts made by
Alex in his defense, regarding the above matter, may disclose
other interests in Switzerland besides skiing and recreation.

. It is noted that upon arrival at U.S. Customs, O'Hare
Field, Chicago, Fueger was found to possess three mink coats and

 

Docld:32556634 Page 1

 
