 

UNITED STATES GOVER? “NT

 

 OpriSNal fom NO. 10 Cy . C)
a d é Tolson
iS

 

 

Memorandum . : pe

ato es
AM Evai
pes TO: Mr. Belmont WV" pate: November 22, 1963 a

 

 

 

 

 

iA « f Sulliddn &
d ft “ Tavel
oo ° Trotter
FROM : Cc. A. Evans . Tele. Room
oO Holmes

Gandy
susjecr: 7 nee OF... TOP... HOODLUMS

 

 

  

Dex engee 1943

rigad io inform you of developments arising from the
murder. of Foreman / an alleged enforcer for loan Shark operator
San) eStefano of Chicago. Foreman, an ex-convict, former wrestler
Bp Ouétime bondsman, had been missing since November 14, 1963,

when his body was discovered November 18, 1963, in the trunk. “ot his’
leased automobile. He had been stabbed in the back and in the
chest and had been shot twice.

‘S

NS

wenn tri ee th iP eee bent L

i
if

op

Chicago Police confirmed that he had visited at DeStefaro's
home on the day he disappeared. DeStefano told police that'“Foreman
had talked and played cards with him for about two hours on-the day
he was reported missing. Chicago Police advised that Foreman was
DeStefano's“front man and in their opinion DeStefano was responsible
for his death, Foreman had been used as an informant by the eee
Policeé<Department for the pst, year.

Fa oe Dhovwn Cevthe bd

heck Seg. ree Le =
fe Approximately “a month ‘ago a "Little black pook'? befonging
to Foreman fell into the hands of the Chicago Police. This, book,

as entries’ showing Foreman met Chicago Municipal Judge Cecit. ‘Corbett
ith at “least -a half dozen timés in t the last six months and that ‘he

ha contagted various other Gye and georesotunics Lieutenant Harry.

Smith, and Detectives Joesp and George ien_of thesChicago ©
olice Department; Benystein, labor racketeer; Kayonaret? :
-prostitution madam; and Morri Tein. of the Cook County, Illinois,

sheriff's Office. Chicago Police~made the BIAékK b6ok available ‘to
Reporter r Sandy Smith of "The Chicago Sun," and he wrote a front page

story November 20, 1963, Coos the con ft TPs sy listed therein.
, a

  
    
   
  
 

oS

i

 

2

CG aseo-vcv te: I U6 see “Ae (oes, tinea the Chicago Office
he had a call from DeStefano November 15, 1963, at 7:30 p.m., and
was told that his "fat friend," Leo Foreman, was dead. The informant
stated that Foreman was killed. because he owed DeStefano $7,000 on
"juice" loans (usurious interest loan), which he refused to pay, and

Foreman wae not, its intohant 21; that he was contacted August 22,
1963, for” -informataon as to i tih@zeabouts of-Carol Jean Smith, also...-~
known as Denise Nelson, who.had’ failea\to appear in court last August’
following ‘her earliertarras® on a charge of Interstate Transportation
of Stolen Property. smitit wasléargested at Seaside, California, on

the OF c 1 $1583 man *s infeanetionaast was sentenced November 8, 1963.

a
Dy hae Ga c

| JGL:rap (7) a meen

ewer ———

 

also that,he was an informant for the _FBI in Chicago. Chicago advises. -~

 

 

F DoclId:32288650 Page 2

 
 

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/24/201
Identification Form

 

Agency Information

 

 

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: — 124-10200-10126
RECORD SERIES: HQ
x
AGENCY FILENUMBER: = 62-9-9-1432
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: EVANS, C. A.
TO: BELMONT ;
TITLE:
DATE: — 11/22/1963
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
THP, ACT, INVEST
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: — Unclassified -
RESTRICTIONS: 4 ~
CURRENT STATUS: —Redact
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: — 10/05/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE
COMMENTS :
re)
v9.1 18

DoclId:32288650 Page 1
 

t

 

ner C

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont
Re: Activities of Top Hoodlums
Chicago Area

Foreman telephonically contacted a Chicago Agent November 13, 1963,
stating he had heard of an FBI inquiry as to whether Smith was -
involved with counterfeit checks and that he desired that he be
contacted if any further information was desired. No arrangements
were made to interview Foreman as a result of this call. .

. Chicago advised that Municipal Judge Cecil Corbett Smith
was removed from his bench November 21, 1963, by Chief Jutice Bowe.
Bowe took this action following a telephone call from DeStefano,
who, according to Judge Bowe, furnished derogatory information about

udge Smith. .

Donald Sullivan, a representative of "The Chicago American"
newspaper, telephonically contacted the Special.Agent in Charge (SAC)
at Memphis late in the evening of November 20, 1963, and requested
the identify of a polygraph operator in the Memphis area, indicating
that he was in the company of a judge in Chicago who was not identified.
fhe SAC advised Sullivan that he could make no recommendation and
knew of no polygraph operator in Memphis. Reporter Sullivan also
inquired about a detective agency in Memphis and was advised that
the FBI was not familiar with any such agencies and could make no

comment. Memphis advises that Chief of Police J.-C. MacDonald -reééived
similar requests from Sullivan and had refused to make a recommendation.
Memphis received information subsequently that the judge involved

was named Smith and that he was currently mentioned in the murder |

matter in Chicago.

Following the contact with our Memphis SAC, "'The Chicago
American" newspaper indicated that Chief of Police MacDonald and the
SAC recommended a polygraph operator. As a result of this, Chief
MacDonald said he was conferring with the City Attorney,as to
possible action against "The Chicago American" for false reporting.
On November 22, 1963, reporter Sullivan telephonically contacted
the Memphis Office and denied having indicated that the SAC or the
Chief of Police had recommended a polygraph operator or a detective
agency.

Chicago received information November 21, 1963, from Joe
Waz, who has furnished reliable information in the past, to the effect
that Waz had been talking to an individual known as "Pix," an associate
of DeStefano and Foreman, "Pix't reportedly indicated he was aware
prior to Foreman's death that he was to be killed and heard about
his death about two hours after the killing and before the body was
found. "pix" allegedly said that DeStefano had asked him for Carol

 

 

| Docld:32288850 Page 3

 

 
