404-10331-10071

 

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger

NOTE FOR: a. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM: Robert J. Eatinger .
DATE: 06/14/95 06:14:47 PM
SUBJECT: ARRB Questions

The JFK Assassination Records Review Beard (ARRB) has indicated that they wish to take possession of the original records from CIA in
order to conduct their review of the postponements sought by the Agency those records, Further, the ARRB has stated that the JFK Act
(44 USC 2107 note} gives them the responsibility for transferring records to the National Archives and Records Administration, not the
originating agency. You asked me to review the JFK Act and comment on these positions.

The JFK Act provides that the original records are to be held by the originating agency unless physical transfer is required to let the Board
do its job. The Act states at section S{a):.

Pending the outcome of the Review Board's review activity, a Government
office shall retain custody of assassination records for purposes of preservation,
security, and efficiency, unless--

{1} the Review Board requires the physical transfer of records for reasons of
conducting an independent and impartial review; or

(2} such transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or other official
Review Board function.

You should see also Section 5{b) of the Act which repeses in the originating agencies the responsibility to retain assassination records
pending review activity by the ARRB.

l understand that the Board believes that the process of it coming to CIA to review the records may not be working well. It may then be
arguing that it cannot adequately perform its function of reviewing unless it has the records. Unfortunately, if the Agency disagrees for
security reasons, there is no arbiter set forth in the Act.

On the second issue, the JFK Act is clear. The Board does not transfer records to NARA. The powers of the Board are set forth in
section 7{j] of the Act. In that section, the Board has the power to “direct Government offices to transmit te the Archivist assassination
records as required under this Act...” Further, Section 9{c), which discusses determinations of the Board provides that "(1} The Review
Board shall direct that all assassination records be transmitted to the Archivist and disclosed to the public in the Collection in the absence
of clear and convincing evidence that ..." Section 5{e} of the JFK Act provides the actual responsibilty to transfer records to NARA to the
originating agencies, not to the ARRB.

Section 7{i) sets forth the duties of the Review Board and it does not list the transfer of assassination records to NARA. Its duties are
only to render decisions whether records are assassination records under the Act, and whether information in an assassination record
qualifies for postponement under the Act.

Thus, if the ARRB is arguing that it must take custody of the original records in order to meet its duty ta transfer these records to NARA

itis wrong. The statute clearly contemplates that the records remain with the originating agency in normal circumstances and only that
the ARRB can direct its transfer once it has ruled on postponements.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
