ae

ied

        
  

  

   

° .° eect AL
-_ AuaEl Ra tan rd
et

 

the description of the
German, Fedder, .

   
 
 

  
    

pear ¢6 be several factors which indicate
iM , Would not be served, if security —~

Clearance is granted for this ‘novel while Mr, Hunt 1s employed by
this Agency and, especially, while he te under State Department

£ be that the f @ peoudonym combined with an

te disclose his identity or delayed
publication a reasonable ting after Mr. Hunt has left Latin America
would eliminate any objections on this basis, However, even if Mr,

E
;
E
5
5
4
G
[
8
4
:

writing of- eugh earthy pocket nowls by a Osvernment e -
sidered from pce “of view of their effect an juveniles eng ake
morality of persons. who profit from such sales,

oe

 

eee

—

INFORMATION

 

 
  
. . . . ETAT EBS ~
ia GOEFEN AL
“4 . SECURITY INFORMATION

: , _ 1 April 1953

® SO
MEMORANDUM FOR: Ghief, Security Control Staff

SUBJECT : Publication Clearance - HUNT, Everette Howard, Jr.

1. Mr .Hunt is Deputy Chief of a Field Station of the Western :
Hemisphere Division and he has been operating under a State Department pO
cover. :

2. Mr. Hunt has been granted security clearances for several
novels during his employment with this Agency. In 19,9, just prior
to employment with CIA, he published Day of the Serpent, a fictional
work on OSS in China. He has achieved considerable national prom
inence as an author of World War IT stories.

3. His full naite is Everette Howard Hunt, Jr. The manuscript
just submitted carries the name Howard Hunt on the title page. His
PHS includes the nickname *Howie" with the explanation that this is
his nom de plume, On the last page of his PHS he stated that an
estimated one million pocket edition copies of two of his books are
in circulation, His present publisher, Fawcett Publications, Inc.,
Yew York, publishes the 25 and 35 cent books which are sold in
drugstores, newstands, hotels, st@tions, etc., throughout the United
States. It seems quite probable that Mr. Hunt would be know as 4.
writer by persons in the Latin American country where he is now
stationed and that his work will be read by some Latin Americans even
though it is in English, It is not mow whether or not the pocket y
book publishing companies have exported their publications in
Spanish editions to Latin -Amrica,  -

 

hk. Darkmess on the Land is the title of ‘the novel for which
security clearance 1s now requested, There appear to be several
objectionable aspects in the novel when it<is considered in com
bination with the fact. that the author is ostensibly a State Department
employee stationed in Latin America,

™ 5. For instance, the theme of the book seems to be that the’

 

nythical country which is the locale of the story is representative 7

| | » Wyftr
tet nh

fie - a0 high lig hled

TY Ieon MATION y
cn heat Brackett .

eran no Penuled

“INSTRU
 

([toctotao-t00gg]

+

  
  

BUILDING. -

+ Steaeeg 36 7

TO:

 

TO: Ze

»
eer

TRANSMITTAL 4

    
 
   

| EXTENSION

TRANSMITTAL UciP .

(Date)

BUILDING

 

seristé 36-8 eee

ee;

   
4*

= iathcels Q
“getunitt (NFORMATION

of Latin America, It is the impression of the undersigned, as a
reader, that the author speaking through his characters regards the
Latin Americans as ignorant, corrupt, homicidal savages, Some
passages which tend to support this inference appear below.

p. 16 f and also p, 125 f, The American Consul ~ "Any
particular reason for a revolution now? xxx Does there have to
be a particular reason in South America? xxx"

p. i f, Sr. Pedro Icaza =~ “xxx In terms of your North
American armies, Latin armies are laughable, xxx That is the
rule in this part of the world, xxx An army has no patriotic
loyalty that holds it to the side of the government, 200%

p. 58 f, Sr. Beltran = *Los Indios xxx they provide a
stolid background before which the five percent struggles
and fails or wins, xxx We have mestizos xxx the mixed blood
gives an unbelievable shrewines5, a barbaric ruthlessness t
its possessors.* .

It would seem that the author's fixation in regard to the superiority
of the Nordic to the Latin and Indian races, which permeates the
entire novel, would be most offensive to Latin Americans. The Latin
Americans might well argue that Mr, Hunt, like Erskine Caldwell,

has taken a sample of the illiterate, amoral minority in Latin
America and used it to depict a whole culture,

6. In a soliloquy on p. 149, Mr. Hunt's North American hero,
Selden, describes Latin American males as though they are suffering
from a racial or southern continental satyriasis, His play upon
the expressions “michos huevos" and "cajones® conveys the impression
that the author suffers from a fixation that the Latin American
males as a whole are a race of bravos, The description of this
characteristic, which he appears to attribute to them, is belabored
through the mouth of Fedder, a Nazi refugee on p. 100, "It is the
curse of this continent, Always the men mist wear pistols, They
must wear spurs and carry small whips around their wrists and have
half-a dg¥%en mistresses of whom they boast.so that no man can
question their machismo mo Again, on p. 163 f, Carlitos, who is
a character of Sufficient importance to be intended as a local "type",
is made to say, "In this country of mine complete vengeance is held
to be the killirig of an enemy and the savage rape of his wife or
daughter. When one has achieved such vengeance, one realizes that
life can offer no greater triumph. It is then that death becomes
unimportant xxx, It is the nature of our blood.® This sort of
writing might be said by Latin Americans to indicate that the author's
thinking is rooted in the discredited theories of Racism, If, as

-2- CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION
74-00000

4%

ate Ae ee cnet ee

‘brutal passages of stark, sexual realism and sadism involving a -

_ or vulgar are indicated below;

GOHFIENTIAL. = 6 oh

SECURITY INFORMATION .

UNESCO officials have stated, books are ambassadors, this novel, if -
if comes to the attention of Latin Americans,will have an equivalent . “~~ .
effect to a Commmist novel depicting America as a gangster. cult : :

  
    
  
 
 

7. The women of latin America are not ignored. Aside from

 

prostitute (p. 18, 155) * and a pinpoint study of the confused,.semi~ _
superstitious religious attitude of the pregnant mistress of the ~-- - |
President who betrays him-(p. 297) ~ the description of the latter
incident might offend persons of thé dominant,.religion in South’.
America = Mr. Hunt has Seldon, his North American hero, observe on: -
p. 18), *Find a woman who will’ ‘not allow you ‘to-sleep xox From what mo
I have seen of your women, there should be many such." . MO

8. Mr. Hunt also indulges through his characters in som
sophisticated, political philosophizing, which if attributed ‘to
State Department or CIA empleyee might bs argued to be a deterministic _ ]
philosophy of Defeation, The following passages seem to support." ‘this - co
inference: . we

p. 18, the American Consul ~ “I'm not trying to sell the ©
thing we call Democracy dow here, I tried it for 6 months - i
five years ago ~ and haven't bothered since, They thought T
was crazy.@

p. 82, Seldon, the American hero, - "xxxthe world has been : i
deceived by propagandists into believing that peace is mankind's . - :
goal, shen the contrary has been displayed in the nature of “Oo a
man 200 -*

pe 84-86, Selden comments cynically on the change of
propaganda once the Germans and Japanese were defeated; and on
our need to put our ow house in order before exporting
international wisdom or devotion to principles.®

9. At present, there is a committee of. Congress investigating -
pocket book publications sold on newstands and in drugstores which
include pgrnographic or sadistic passages. Congressional objection
is not to this school of literature but té"the fact that Fawcett
Publishing Company and others profit from its sale to adolescents
in 25 cent editions, Artistically, Mr. Hunt might be said to be a
stark realist. Some passages which might be criticized as salacious

 

 

pe 5k, (in the middle of the page) = The rejoinder of
Ines when she is rejected, .

-3-

- CONFIDENTIAL

BECURITY INFORMATION

   
