 

21,

22,

23,

-Munication. Pa:
.ianee and counter-surveillance and servicing dead drops is given

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-B- CS-311/04298-64

Administration Department. The same safehouse is used for suc-
cessive agents, but only one is trained there at a time, Follow-
ing the agent’s operational plan as laid down by the case officer,
the MI Department provides instructton‘in the necessary skills
through its own sections and various departments of the DGI out

‘side the operational departments.

All. illegal agents are trained in normal tradecraft elements such
as clandestine meetings, election and use of dead drops, recruit-
ment of agents, establishment and operation of agent nets (only
for agents specifically intended for network direction), use of
informants and collaborators, photography, and some form of com-
Practice in operational techniques such as surveil-

in appropriate sections of Havana. Each agent in addition is in-

‘struéted-on ‘hatters relating to his particular mission, and is

given whatever communications training he will need. Communica-
tions receives special emphasis because 211 arrangements must be
made during the training period, Techniques include secret writ-
ing, cades and ciphers, radio transmission and reception, micro-
dots, and microfilm, Only a few agents are trained in the latter
two techniques, and not all are tra‘ned in radio, but almost all
receive instruction on secret writing, which is the most widely
used means of communication between. agents in the field and their
case officers, The type of communications training the agent will
recelve is usually discussed with the case officer by the MI
Department, but sometimes the MI Department decides without con-
sultation and sometimes it consults the SI Department for opera-
tional background on the country where the agent will work,

The ST Section (Technical Section - Seccion Tecnica) of the MI
Department has the main responsibllity for agent communications
training and itself conducts the training in secret writing. It
first requests the LG Section (Chemical Laboratory - Laboratorio
Quimico) of the MI Department “to devise and prepare a secret
writing system for the agent's use, Most systems depend on
sympathetic inks made with salt, blood, urine, and other materials;
the type assigned the agent is determined by his mission and
operational situation. Each agent receives a different system,
although two agents working in the same operation use the same
system, An agent normally learns two systems, one for incoming
correspondence, development only, and one for outgoing corres-
pondence, preparation only. In addition, if he is to direct an.
agent network of his own which requires internal clandestine com-
munication, he is taught a third system, both preparation and
development, for use in the network. The case officer not only
does not participate in the training but knows very little about
the secret writing systems, since the processing of messages from
agents in the field is handled by the ST Section and he receives
only the developed text, and the ST Section, for reasons of :
security and compartmentation, refuses to tell the case officeg
anything specific about communications.

The ST Section trains the agent thoroughly on the materials and
methods he is to use and gives him practice in processing messages
under direction, then in preparing test messages and in developing
and interpreting test messages prepared by the instructor. The
training period varices according to the complexity of the system
and the requirement for competence from the agent. In cases

where communications are of special importanee, the instruction
may continue for two or three months with great detail, and the

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

24.

25.

26. °

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-9- . CS-311/04298-64

agent iS expected to attain ow high standard of performance, An
ager: who fails the course may have to repeat tt, if the opera-
tiona] plan requires it and his schedule permits, Training
normally continues until the agent has achieved the desired pro-
ficiency; an evaluation of his ability 1s included in his personal
file, Actually, howerer, secret writing training has not been
uniformly successful in DGI experience: in some. cases, communica-
tions from the agent in the field could not be read at headquarters
because the secret writing was improperly prepared, and agents

have also had difficulty in deciphering messages. sent to them,

Agents never write directly to DGI headquarters; all their mail
in both .dirébtions goes through accommodation addresses, usually
in another country, Instruction in selection and use of accom-

‘modation addresses is given by the MS Department (Department of

Legal Centers - Departamento Centros Legales), which handles DGI
field stations and their corrésfondence, because accommodation

The MIS Department controls the
assignment of accommodation addrvss Since the DG! believes
that there is less darg-c of .-xpoSing the agent if his cover
letters containing secret writing are as realistic and natural as
possible, the agent is bricfed ret only on the accommodation
address to which he is to write, but alse on the parsons who
actually Live there--ages, Fackgrcund, relationships, etc,--so
that he can reter te birthdays and personal int-cests or family
events. The agent 15 alse taught s*lection of plausible but not
genuine return addresses for his outgeing communications,

 

Agents who are to learn cedes and ciphers and radio transmission
and reception are trained by th- ST Section, which has its own
radio transmitter for iratructicn purposes, The radios the
agents use in training are precured in their own countries and

-are adapted for clandestine use by the ST Section; most such

equipment is Western-made, ard much of tf is American, The agent
learns transmission and reeéptien and also is taught how to adjust
a commercial radio to his individual requir-ments and how to make
minor repairs on it. He may learn the standard Morse code but
usually is taught a numerical code arranged in groups, As with
secret writing, the case cfficer knows little about the actual
mechanics of the radic communications arrang-ments because radio
messages are processed cutsidt the operational departments and
reach him only in the form of clear text, and because compart-
mentation keeps him from acquiring uechnical knowledge. . :
Similarly, he knows little abcut the proficiency required of the
agent and sees only the finai evaluation report prepared by the
ST Section for the agent's personal file,

If the agent is also to receive training in microfilm and micro-
dot techniques, the ST Section arranges with the LF Section
(Photographic Laboratory - Laboratorio Fotografico) of the MI

Department for the use of equipment and the asSignment of a
system and then itself gives the training. The LF Section has

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

18,

19,

20.

 

S-P-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a a CS~311/04298-64

except the ones to which they aro specifically assigned for trains
ing, and never. ehter any DGE official establishment or the case

officer's s home,

A foreign agent candidate arriving in Cuba is first debriefed by
the case officer on his background and qualifications, since up
to that time the BGE has only advance notice of his selection and
knows little about him. The interview is recorded, but without
the trainee's knowledge. Qn ono occasion in early 1964 a case
officer arranged to meet a new trainee in a Havana restaurant for
the preliminary intervrew,
a pocket tape recorder, which he tested in advance and found was
in good order, When he started to record the interview, however,
he discovered that he had cither forgotten to adjust the mechan-
ism after he had tested it, cr he pushed the playback instead of
the record buttdn: the restaurant was suddenly electrified by a
vaice saying: “Testing, one, two, three; testing, one, two,
three," The interview was hastily concluded and was rescheduled
the next day in the safchouse where the agent, a Guatemalan, was
lodged; in this case, of course, the agent was aware that it was
being recorded, The results of the interview are centered in a
biographical questionnaire covering all aspects of the agent's
family situation, political views, background and cducation,
employment experience, connections, and ipredg sence potential;
the document forms the basis of the agent’s DGI personal file.

In addition, the agent is required to write a complete report on
the operational situation in his country, including types and
Styles of dress, eating habits, working heurs and holidays,
location of public bualdings and places of entertainment, the
press and its type and circulation, urban and rural transporta-
tion, educational facilities, airlines, persenal documents for
idestification, and local linguistic idioms.

 

In cases where an intelligence agent is selecred from among
guerrilla trainees, he may romain under the jurisdiction of the
LUN Department, which retains him as a guerrilla agent but arranges
for his training as an illegal agent also, Training for intel-
ligence work, however, is always separate from guerrilla training
and is not revealed to the Communist Party or leftist group
Sponsoring the agent, who becomes, in effect, a Semi-overt Cuban
agent itn guerrilla activities and a clandestine agent in intel-
ligence reporting or other functions, One such agent, trained in
Cuba in 1963, was returned toe the Dominican Republic about mid-
1963; he carries on revolutionary activities with the Dominican
Popular Movement ‘Glovimiento Popular Deminicano ~ MPD) as a known
Cuban-trained guerrilla and at the Same tame works as an illegal
agent (under the LN Depariment), without the knowledge of his MPD
colleagues, 4S a penetration of the MPD,

 

The case officer from the Illegal Department arranges for the, com-
plete support of the agent during training, providing him, lodging
in a private house or apartment, supplying his food and clothing
and personal equipment from the DGI warehouse as is done for
guerrilla agents, and kéeping. him in pocket neney. If the agent
is married, the expenses of his dependent fanily are aiso covered
by the DGI. The case officer does not give any instruction, but
arranges with the MI Department (Department of Technical Opera-
tional Support) of .the DGI for training the agent in the skills

he will require tor his future mission,
schools or regular training sires but uses private houses or
apartments, which are procured and maintained oy the DGf General

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

The case officer provided himself with.

The NL Department has no ~
 

14,

as."

16,

. : : S-H-C-R-E-T
. NO POREIGN DISSEM

- 6- CS-311/04298-64

Practice’ in guerrilla warfare and weapons and explosives handling
is given on the schovl premises in Havana, In addition, both dur-
ing the course and near its conclusion, groups of students are
taken to the Escambray Mountaitis in. Las Villas Province to put
their training into practice and to learn to live off the country,
They are integrated intd regular Cuban army units fer short .
periods and take part in any military activities then tn progress,
During 1963, for example, a group of Guatemalans and a group of
Salvadorians were taken separately to the Escambray: and partici-
pated in the operations then being conducted by the Cuban army
against antt-Castro guerrillas in the area,

Guerrilla students are required to meet a standard of complete
familiarity with all the information and. material forming part of
their tastruction,. Examinations are given regularly; students .
tho fail them are required to repeat the instruction. A student
may have to repeat the entire course if he cannot pass the neces~=
sary examinations. There are many failures, An agent candidate
who proves completely incapable of mastering the course is
removed from the school, and an effort is made to find him a
special job elsewhere. During the course, the instructors issue
aonthly reports to the school administration, both on the course
as a whole and on the performance of cach student. A copy is sent
to the case officer, Reporting on students covers personal
attitude, discipline, capability in study, political level, etc.

While guerrilla training is in progress, two spectal preparations
for the future are made, The first is the arrangement of the
agent's.travel to his target area, either his own country or
another. Passports and other documents are prepared for his use
on the return trip; funds are allocated for his futuro activity;
and provisions are made for his carrying money or possibly special
equipment back with him if that is required, The second thing 18
the assessment of the trainee for other possibilities, . Through-
eut the course he is observed and evaluated; if he shows more than
usual aptitude and ability, he comes under consideration as a
potential intelligence agent for collection of information or
penetration of his home government. If a trainee is assessed as
suitable for. intelligence-agent work, he is removed from the
guerrilla course and receives special instruction for more
clandestine and more complicated tasks.

Training of Intelligence Agents

iv.

Intelligence (illegal) agents, from whatever source they are drawn
(foreigners visiting or resident in Cuba, contacts of DGI agents
or organizations abroad, or guerrilla trainees selected for ~
superior abilities), come under the DGI Illegal Department, which
is responsible for their recruitment, training, and subsequent
handling, Since they are truly clandestine agents, their rela-
tionship with the DGI requires special security from its incep-
tion, They travel to Cuba alone rather than in a group, and in;
Cuba they are kept apart from other persons of their own aatton-"
ality and from one another, Agents of Cuban nationality are aiso
kept apart from other nationalities and during training lead
normal lives as far as possible, Both Cubans and foreigners are
kept from contact with the Cuban Government or official circles
to avoid suspicion of any government connection, 4s with guer~
rilla trainees, agentS are assigned pséudonyms for use with the
general public in Cuba and for use in field operations later,
Agents are not allowed any. knowledge of any PGI installations

S-E-~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN D{SSEM

 

 
 

 

7.

10.

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-4= CS-311/04298-64

consulate.” Since there are no official Cuban missions in Central
America, the agent nogmally makes his way to Mexico and obtains
his Cuban visa there, In order to keep secret from the author-
icies in his own country that he ts going to Cuba, the agent
candidate gives another destination, ond the Cuban consular
offices help by issuing his Cuban visa on a separate sheet of
paper instead of stamping it in his passport.* The agent candi-
date may pay his own passage, but usually he is supplicd funds or

.an airline ticket through.a local DGI agent or the leftist group

to which he belongs; the ‘funds are issued by the Central Process-

“ing? Section, Whether hé is issued.a ticket or given money to buy

his own, the funds originate with the DGI and are forwarded to
the candidate's area through the DGI representation in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico. _.

DGI officers attached to Cuban consulates are alerted to assist
agent candidates in their travel, The agent is given a password,
which varies from place to place; agents from El Salvador, for
example, are told to mention “Mauricio.” When a DGI officer at a
consulate interviews visa applicants, he expedites the visa for
anyone uSing the proper password; if the password is not used, he
Stalls the applicant for several days while he cables Havana for
authority to issue a visa, If the visa is issued in Mexico, the
agent trainee is given a plane ticket on Cubana, the Cuban Govern-
ment airline, and is told when he is to leave, Accommodations and
subsistence are provided if the trainee has to wait for passage,
Agent candidates from British Guiana sometimes travel to Cuba by
small boats, not regular shipping service,

Agent trainees going to Cuba use a variety of cover stories. For
the local authorities, their travel is to some other destination,
often as tourists, students, or laborers, For their own group,

no cover story is required; for their fnmiltes and friends, tour-
ist or Student travel is the usual explanation, For persons out-
side the group, if Cuba is known as the destination, the cover
story is a scholarship for study at a Cuban school or university.
Groups of trainees from the same leftist organization often travel
together fron their own country to Mexico and thence to Cuba, but
intelligence agent trainees always travel alone,

Upon arrival at the Havana airport, trainees are met by DGI
officers appearing as ICAP officials. The DGI has an arrangement
with the Cuban immigration authorities under which persons of DGI
interest are cleared through entrance formalities without compli-
cations, The trainces are placed in hotels while final training
arrangements are made, then are transferred to the schools where
their training will be given, or to private houses or apartments
if they are intelligence trainees, The case officer.from the DGI
department which will thenceforth control their activities is re-
sponsible for them during their stay in Cuba, Using the .funds
allotted by the department, he provides them lodging, food, per-
sonal expenses, medical care, and anything else they-neet during
the training period; shoes, clothing, and personal items are
drawn for them from the DGI warehouse,

As far as possible, DGI trainees live the normal life of students
and use the cover story that they are studying on Cuban Government
scholarships, Their movements in Havana are not restricted,
except that arrangements are made to keep them away from fellow~
citizens visiting or: living in Cuba, Since most of their train-
ing is given in Havana, and the course is intensive, they do not

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

 

 

li.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FORFICN DISSEN

 

~§- ° €S-311/01298-64

usually travel to other parts of Cuba during the instruction
period, unless they are taken by the schocl te pirticipate in
national campaigns for which all students are dratted, such as
cane-cutting and coffee-picking. After the tratning course is
completed, if there is any delay in returning students to their
own country, they may travel outside Havana; trips are arranged
and financed by the DG? liaison officer in (CAP. During delay
periods, however, they are at the disposal of the school, which
may use them in “voluntary” campaigrs ocr other ways, Guerrilla
agents of the same nationality are kept tegether if they belong
to the same organization, but trainees from different organiza-
tions of the same country are s«parated, Trainees of two nation-
alities are never put together, ard foreigners are never grouped
with Cubans, [n both livirg quarters and training, the illegal.
intelligence agent is separated frem guerrilla agentes, All
trainees are encouraged to have as little contact as possible

with persons outside the school,

Upon arrival in Cuba, each agent _is assigned a pseudonym, which
he uses throughout his training. Actually, within the guerrilla
schools, students in either large cr small groups use their real
names, since their identitt:s arz usuasily krewn to their fellows
from Carlier asseciation or traveling togeth< The pseudonym is
primarily a means cf protecting ths student from identification
by persons outside the schacl, For a time, the DUI used the
pseudonym only ducing thy training period and assigned another
pseudonyn when the agent returned ner-, but the ccnfusion of keep-
ing separate files was so great that the tcoirping pseudonym was
adopted as permanent, Sometimes, hesever, pst-udenyms are still
changed, for security reasons, when the student buates Cuba or
atte: he has returned to the field.

 

  

Training of Guerrilla Agents

12,

13.

‘Department responsibility.

The LN Department, and specifically the case olticer in charge of
arranges for their

WN group of agents to be trained as gutriiilas,
instruction in the EB Department (Department cf Special Schools +
Departamento Escuelas Especiales) of rhe pert The case officer
himself deés not conduct the training, which iS entirely an EB
The stud-nt group is assigned to one
of the EE Department schcols in Havana, by nationality; training
groups are aS large as 25 and as small as thre- or four persons,
Courses last three to Six months, depending on ths type of train-
ing and the ultimate mission cf the 2 te, but in speclal cases
may laSt as long as a yéar (two Guatenalars ware trained that
long). The instructors are all military, dtawn from the Cuban
army; there is one for each military sprcialty, and a political

instructor,

 

 

 

Training covers ali aspects ef guerriila warfar>, weapons hand-
ling, explosives, sabotage, demolition, military tactics, combat
engineering, etc., as well as means of countering anti-gterrilla
activities, Weapons are of both American and Communist-Bloc
provenance. Some specialized training 15 given; for ¢xample,
there is a school for frogmen at the ncuth of the Jaimanitas River
in Barlovento, west of Havana, and two .Guatemalans and a Dominican
were trained as frogmen during 1963, Guerrilla agents do not
normally, however, receive any communications training (secret
writing, radiq, ete,):; when they return home, thvir channel of
communication for sending information and recsiving instruction
and support is through the organized group to which they belong.

 
 

Hdqrs Dissem .

WH/COPS
WH/PO/A
Wil/PO/B
WH/1
WH/2
WH/3
WH/3/V
WH/4
WH/S
WH/6
WH/R

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R
WH/SA/Int
WH/SA/CI
WH/SA/SO/NS

ci/Staft
CI Liaison
CI/R&A
RID/AN

AF/1
AF/?
AF/3
AF/A
AES?
AE/CL

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
ER/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/LIS

FE/PMI/T
FE/JKO/JO
FE/3KO/K
FE/VNC/YN
FE/R
FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/L
NE/S/P
NE/6/CR&I
NE/intel
NE/CI

WE/1
WE/2

3

CE elle ee oll nel oll eS cl cl ol ol

dad te

[dl oll aed ell ell oe el oe od nell oe ol eo ee de ee ee enn

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- ja -

WE/3
WE/4
WE/5
WE/BC
WE/R

SR/CI
SR/CI/K
SR/RR
SR/0/WH

el ad ll oo oe

Field Dissem-

WH/MEXI 1
WH/MNTY 1

 

 

 

Set
WH/SA/WAVE §

 

 

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 

CS-311/04298-64

 

 

 

Liaison Dissem
t

I
L

tt ed

 

 

 

we,
 

[ioetoreetto] ceo

 
     

Sa CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY “3

a This matertal eootains taformation affecting the Naticoal Defences of the Coited States within the meaning cf the Eeptonage Laws, Title
° 18, UBC. Sera 183 and TA the tranamission o¢ rereletina of which Im any tanner te on ussuthcrised pereem te prohibited by law.

SiE-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DESSEM

 

= COUNTRY Cuba : REPORT NO, CS-311/04298-64

. . SUMECT «Selection and Training of Cuban bate stR, «= «12 «October 1964

Intelligence Agents Abroad
: . NO. PAGES 14

REFERENCES  CS-311/00115-64

: RETURN TO CIA
DATE OF 1963-1964 Background Use Only
MACE & Do Not Reproduce

OATE ACG. June 1964 FIELO_REPORT NO.
THIS 1S UNEVALUATED IMPORAATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. AFFRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 Tentative,

source: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service uatr1] April 1964.

Introduction rc “og

1, The Cuban foreign intelligence service, the General Directorate of
Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia - DGI), tn dis-
charging 1ts function of protecting Cuban intérests and security
and promoting the poligiss of the Cuban Government, employs agents

. of many nationalities, Although its activities extend to Europe
and Africa, .tS principal agent strength is in Latin America.
Agents have in gengral two types of assignments: collection of
infermation on the local government and the local situation, and
promotion of revelutionary activity, including guerrilla warfare.
Ali DGU agents abroad are therefore divided into two basic cate-
“orics according to function: intelligence agents charged with
collection cf information and penetration of local governments and
organizations, who are truly clandestine, i.e., are not’ known in
their target countries as Cuban agents; and guerrilla warfare and
Sabotage agents, charged with directing and supporting revoluticn-
ary activities, who are often known as Cuban agents to the local
Communist and leftist groups with which they work, The two types
of agents are trained separately and are controlled by different
departments am the OGL neadquarters in Havana, ‘intelligence agents

by the Illcgal Department (Departamento Tlegal,called Ilegal) and
guerrilla agents by the LN or National Liberation Department.
(Departamento Liberacien Nacional). .

Agent Selection

2. The DGI employs sore asents of Cuban nationality, as opposed to
staff members working abread, They function as intelligence agents, ‘
t.¢0,, clandestine agents under the Illegal Department, and are

 

  
  
     

 

$ 5
4 . s+ 4
3 S-E-C-R-E-T mar ~=3
2 NO POREIGN DISSEM tegen ea ;
‘STATE 1 oa ARMY ~T Navy ALR NSA aK 1 ote FBI 2
q CINCSO # S OO OOOO

 

 

   
  

     

Tis “rd DIA ~ 2 eagh pommarmctag, Pr)
forage 3, CL 21, REO'AN 1, WHYSA 46 (5), SR A[senos ; iGoplorr
pu 2a (Bay, ARR (8), ER 8 (10), FE 12 (8), NETI1 O19), FU3 anes

 

 

    
  
 

    
 
               
74-00000

 

 

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- . CS~-31104298-64

recruited by that department, Of three known agents in this cate-

gory, one was a member of the Cuban internal security service, the

Department of State Security (Pepartamento de Seguridad del
Estado - DSE), Julio Damaso Vasquez. He was a trained parachutist
at the time of his recruitment. Two other known agents, Rafael
Guzman and “Chino” (name unknown), were recruited because they

 

‘were friends of ‘one of-the Iliegai Department officers, Saul

Gonzalez, One criterion for recruitment is that the agent sbali
not have a wide circle of acquaintance,

Agents of other nationalities are usually recruited by agreement

between a DGI officer and the local Communist or leftist organiza-
tion to which the person belongs, but there are other possibie

, Sources,

a. Foreigners visiting Cuba, Most foreign visitors to Cuba are
handled by the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples
(Institute Cubano del Amistad con los Pueblos - ICAP), which
arranges for their travel to Cuba; their itineraries, lodging,
and entertainment while there; and their return travel to
their homes or other destinations. The DGI has an arrangement
with ICAP under which members of the DGI MO Department
(Department of Illegal Centers - Departamento Centros Iicgales)
meet and interview foreign visitors for the purpose of extract-
-ing any information of valve to Cuba and of assessing them as
potential agents. Contacts are so well camouflaged as normal
ICAP courtesies that few of the visitors realize that they are
in touch with an intelligence agency. The DGI does not deal
with foreign diplomats, who are the responsibility of the DSE,
but it has access to any other foreigners, If the MO Depart-
ment considers any visitor a potential agent, especially if he
shows a Narxist or extreme leftist attitude, it reports his
name and whatever it has learned about him to either the
Illegal Department of the DGI, which handles intelligence
agents not in contact with local Communist or leftist groups,
or the LN Department, which works with guerrilla agents in
contact with such groups. Referral is made on the basis of
membership in or attachment to an organized group. In no case
does the MO Department recruit the agent; that privilege is
reserved for the operational departments.

 

b. Foreigners resicent in Cuba, The BC Section (Colonial Bureau ~
Buro Colonial) of the SI Department (Department of Information
Services - Departamento Servicios de Informacion) of the DGI
is responsible for screening foreigners residing in Cuba
{except diplomats) for potential agents, Like the MO Depart-
ment, the BC Section makes no actual recruitments, but reports
potential agents to the Illegal or LN Department, according to
whether they are or are not affiliated with an organized group.

 

e. Ferseons voluateering infornation from abroad, The NO Depart-
ment is also responsible for screening letters from persons
abroad who volunteer information or support to the Cuban
Government, Its principal aim is to extract any useful in-
formation from Such letters, but it also notes any persons who
appear to have agent potential aad refers them to the proper
operational department for consideration.

d, Members of Communist Parties and organized leftist groups in
Latin America, The group recunmends to a DGI contact--aa
officer on a trip to the area, a local representative or agent,

S~E-~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEYW

 
 

 

Preliminary Trainire

5.

 

SEM
~3- 5-321 '01298-64

ev a headqurreers officer ar Cuba if a group official is
vasiting thir. --any of its members as cardidates tor guerrilla
training tn Cuba or ar their own country. The DGI and the
group agers or which of the candidates are mest suitable, A
DGI agent «ovkiog wath tno group may also recomrend members
for tratnite, g-reraily as guerrilla fighters but possibly.
aifkeé as clardsctins intelligence agents; in the first anstance,
the recormonaztien is knewn to the group, but in the second

is kept srorst frem it.

 

e, Recruit: 1 agtnts sent te Cuba for guerrilla warfare training.
DGE of fictrs cbvarve guerrilla warfare and sabotage agents
during their training in Cuba and select those cf special
potentias foc recruitment as unilateral intelligener agents,

 

ft. Ageuta af atrer intelligence services. The DGI sometimes reo
eruits a+ deubise agents empleyees of hestile inmteiligence -
servicios v 2 whem at comes inta centact. Such agents may
also be ‘ire -r to the OGI by the DSE if it has rsccgnized
and r-ecrud

 
  

  

<

When an agert car‘didat? 18 preposed, the Illegal or LN Department
reviews th availa infocmation about him, If hs 15 in Cuba,
it may r-qut:t the DSE te conduct an investigation, the DGI
Inspection 9 partee:¢ (Departamento Inspeceiun), which deals
primarily with DGi staff gersonnel, has forms for sub 10 LO
the DSE requestiee an anvestigation, Since tho DG} dees net re-
veal th: id:rérhaes af its slligence (illegat’ agents to the
DSE, not au] tent ea Jidates ave thus investigated, he opera-
tional departyonty stiec® their agents on tho basis cf atl the
avaiiuble infecaition es a personal recommendation trom a DGT
staift member cr ws doagent. The candidate is then recruited.
Cuban ag-nty a: of Ure government agency fer which they
are workirg, t sof other nationalities art net-> guerrilla
agentS ar. recriie-d to work for their own ecrganization, cstcasi-
bly, and ante Live agents ary usually aware oniy that they are
working for th: tuban Government, They may belicve that they are
under the jur chien cf the Cuban army becauss military person
nel give sor. n cuction, and the mere sophisticited may
believe they a> 2 ths DOSE, which is widely known as aa ins

telligence organ.

 

 

  
  

 

 
  

     

 

   
  
  
  
 

 

  
 

    

 

     
 
 

 

 

When a Cuban agent is recruited, a schedule fer his training is
arranged a1 53 a way that he can ecntinus his aermil miarer of
living. [i by .3 -mpleyad in an office cr factory, h continues
in his Pogsiat Jeb, and the training is set up fer tis gets time,
Tf he 1s cin. 2 ne goes cn living just as he bas befere, and
the training i> : sie d for heurs when his absence fremgnis
usual haunts an ¢ sticeabie, : > “

 
 

 

    
 

Agents from foreign cosptr12s ar? usually brought re Cuba for
training in wither intedligerce or gucrrilla-satetag? activities,
The DGL is netit ef the agent's selection through channels

from the fiedd, ard the Central Processing ¢ Sectien of
the LN Department handies arrangements for tk 1 to and

from Cuba. Normally the agent candidate uses his own trav2l docu-
ments, bul sca. times tne group to which he belcng? provides a
Passport beicegip.s to a fsllow ecjtizen.who has alicady been to
Cuba, He must cbtain tis Cuban visa through the nears st Cuban

   

 

 

 

¥
