13-00000

 

eh

 

we 25/11-63,._
5 The ‘President of the United Stutecs or America, John ra Neanedy was
assassinaved by Lee H Oswald by direct order of the government ‘of
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act elone

but there was helpers end reserv. “*Fow all is over" wes password

to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist but he

: must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already

 

 

rot Ss when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get ‘him as a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. When Lee E Osvald had returned fo USA we

“J. Comptacteu. cim anew and sreshesucd up: nis mind “you have been & Spy
for us" and told him what could haspen to him if FBI got informed.
Sow we had him. He got his last inZormation in kexico. /It was not
good to assassinate ‘Kennedy in wexico/ “Fair Play for Cuba" was
started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro Zor the as- 1
ssassineteci. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba
when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the assassin~

, ation. When Caba was attaczed by US: Sowiet aust help Castro defend
himself. Iv that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi—
ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for £— a a
‘bombs and they should not be able’ to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this wer and whole the world should be Commnistic. Then we shonld
assassinate © frustiey and other Soviet leaders and we would be iesder .
of the KEV 03D. When this letter: will reach you they have maked

 

away with me and all that knowea the planes. This letter is. outsruggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is argMinese spy-shcol. *
Hy name is Ryo Liang Yiian, Officer in the department, for State-seoret. :

ee eee” Mt LR SIS aN NAD J at tnt Alpe AD AOE a fat al
IZ you do not belive this letter explein our hate to USA.

 

 

 

 
 

$04-10400-10019)

 

 

HENORARDOM FoR: &sD/D3/5 ©
AESENTION: Mr. Tom Campbell
SUBJECT: Tecunical Analysis of Letter and Envelope
j
l. Atteckhed is a letter sailed to the Anerican Embassy in
Stockhola purportedly from <_n officer in the Chinese Communist
Exbassy im Steczhoim. Also included is the envelope and a plain
foldea sheet of parer which presumaoly was used to en?olé the
ae¥ ter within the envelov2. Pleese perform e techmicel analysis
> these attesiments to Cetemiine shetever can be determined

ccreerning the origin of the perer, envelope, typewriter, end
ink used. If you have any capability for comparing this letter

with other corresponde: originating with the Chinese Cammmis:
Extassy in Stockholm, we would like your opinion on whether or

not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type
normally used by that Embassy. .

 

2. Because of the sexsational neture of the contents of
the letter anG& the necessity for our checking out suck alleze-
tions as quickiy and thoroughly as possible, it is requested
thas this techzical analysis de uméertaken on ea priority besis
and that the undersigned sy notified oy phone as soon as any
conclusions are reached.

3. Please acinovledze the receipt of the attached letter
ané ensure that its ‘whereabouts, when in your custody, is 2
metter of record. We prefer that the letter and envelope be
kept as intact as possible waile undergoing technical analysis.

 

 
13-00000

 

a - som ’ ee “Bye Sone
mo, i .
_ ; mS & 9 : o ah
fs _ et eat
y
i

   
    

 

 

 

    

. American Embassy. -
Strandvagen 101 wien
STOCKHOLU Fo

 

         
  
   

 

MAIL’ ROOM. nd

; © BABASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OE AMERICA

EP BEC 1953,
i STOCKHOLM

. . We gos
\
. ‘ = fee e
. . Pr ni
ae °
Noy ep eet
of a. 4
so‘ Pan
7. & .
. . ~ ~

 

tees se
