13-00000

oo. .

Secret - Working Paper

Moscow - opened: for Oswald windows

CL d- No, past elections issue and current narcotics
projects

a: No, counter narcotics projects

[__]|- Liaison relationships have been up and down; (PNGed
five officers) can't afford any more flaps

- long time relationship w/ head of state; could give
“anti-government labor unions an issue(however, would
not “fall on my sword” for this one.

]-- would go to DCI with request to
appeal (governments currently under‘ fire for cooperation
with US/very sensitive operation under way:

 

Marwell ask about substitute language: Scandinavia, Northern

Europe -- Bill 4 Jal with Western Europe/ said southern
Europe “ok”

[__] do not want to acknowledge but could live with

[===] - very sensitive

- is open in 1955; 1963 (?) Bill may have been having
‘Seong thoughts about previous statement “to release”, but I
think it still stands -- there was a discussion of why
important to story.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mary ask about other European stations, and some
South American stations

 

 

 

Bill did not have specific on other stations but made a
couple of comments

- very sensitive to any mention of intelligence
service presence

Would get back to them on other stations

{I promised Bill a list of the Stations]

Secret
(oe10331-40348] ©

 

Secret - Working Paper

Notes from Briefing of ARRB Staff on Stations
: (11 October 1995 - ARRB conf. room)

 

CIA Attendees:

 

Bill re Stations:

No problem with release of COS, fact we have overseas
locations, CIA representatives in specific countries -- the
problem comes with officially acknowledging the stations
thereby putting the host government and service ina
position of explaining why it is allowing a foreign
espionage unit to operate in the country. This may become a
serious political issue for the government, especially in
countries where the government does not acknowledge its own
service. Also can be perceived as “rubbing their nose in
it” and can effect the trust between the Agency and the host
service (violated agreement of confidentially).

Marwell pointed out that this information was 30 years old

‘and ask what was the impact of acknowledging a station

presence in 1963 on current operations or relations.

Bill responded “opened up old sores” and cited[_ Jand the
sensitivity to our involvement in past election. Mentioned

the reaction to the announcement on covert actions by DCI.

Gunn ask if stations = liaison relationship; Bill said the
other service can not say it did not know the CIA was
operation in its own country -- would look incompetent.

Mary ask about changes in gov; rnment ;,Bill responded that :
intel] types tend to stay or its,revolving door where a -" ~
good, ill be back in power at some point. | .
Bill comments on specific stations

It important to the story such a | wert and the
surrounding stations which were invéIvéd in e cable -

exchanges re Oswald, then will release.

“Don't take it away from us for little or no gain to the
story”, I. e. if not critical to the story let us protect.

He indicated he could live with opening the stations for
short windows if important to story, but also said it
created a problem about protecting other activities in that
window \

Secret
13-00000_

oe

Secret - Working Paper

Other issues discussed

Crypts other than LIg and AMs - there was a discussion re
deleting digraph and letting rest of crypt; everyone seemed
receptive, but no decision.

Bill mentioned Iranian takeover as good example ‘of damage
caused by release of documents with crypts, file #s, etc.
Gunn ask if there was an internal “damage” study prepared.
Bill said he would check.

Marwell rejected the approach of the Agency having the
opportunity to discuss Board actions before official
notification. If we have evidence, need to present upfront,
not come back with additional evidence after the decision.

The balancing of public interest vs Agency needs came up
several times; Marwell commented that even if a document or
item is not important to the Oswald story, the Agency must
still defend.

Bill stated several timed during the meeting “If important |
to the story, we can live with release”.

7 Barry
12 October 1995

Secret
