74-0000

Gp

3. In two memoranda on 21 June we informed you of our
relationship with the Robert R. Mullen Company and the
General Foods Corporation. The utilization of the Robert R.
Mullen Company dates back to Juac 1963, Myr. Mullon has
provided certain sensitive cover support overseas for Agency
employees. In addition, tr. Mullen was involved in the
formation of the Cuban Freedom Committee -- an activity
terminated several years ago. As of 1 May 1970 Mr. Everette
Howard Hunt, who had just retired from the Agency, became a
legitimate employee of Mr. Mullen. In July 1971] Mr. Hunt
informed the Agency he had been assigned to the White House
Staff but continued to devote part of his time to the Mullen
Company. The General Foods Corporation is a client of the
Mullen Compan

    
 
 

   

 

Over the years sixtéen
officials o eared on certain aspects
of our interests. They have not been informed of our use of
the Robert R. “lullen Company. Also on-21 June, in response to
a verbal request of 20 June, we informed you that a check of our
records disclosed no record of Agency involvement with the
Association of National Advertisers or the words “CIE”.

  

 

4. In a separate memorandum on 21 Juné we advised you
that a review of the duties and assignments of lr. James
McCord provided no indication that he was anvolved in Cuban
matters and that he was not assigned to the Eay of Pigs
operation. We stated, however, that he might have developed
personal acquaintances which are not recorded in officiai -
personnel and security records. We have no information
regarding Mr. McCord's activities with Cuban exiles since his
retirement. —We-indicated in the same memorandum that as an. .
Agency employee, Nr. Hunt was involved in operational activities
relating to Latin American countries and was known to have had
some ties to Mr. Barker. In a separate memorandum of 27 June
regarding Mr. Hunt, we informed you about the issuance of the
alias, Edward V. Hamilton, to Mr. Hunt on 30 September 1960.

This alias was subsequently used by tir. Hunt for several
drivers licenses. ie provided additicnal informaticn on
this subject in a memorandum of 5 July and alsa reported that
there is no information in our files to the effect that Nr.
Hunt was issued a Social Security Card or Insurance Policy
bearing the name Edward J. or Edward Joseph Hamilton.

 

 
 

 

104-10256-10273 ;
ee Lo, 6 July 1972
fa?
ae,
4b
4

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Acting Director
Federal Eureau of Investigation

SUBJECT

Information Provided the Federal Rureau
of Investigation Regarding the Watergate
Incicent

1. As a result of our conversation of 5 July, I would
like to suwamarize the information which has been provided to
you by the Agency in memcrandunm form (attention Mr. Arnold
Parhan) since the first series of memoranda on the subject -
beginning 20 June.

2. On 29 June separate memorandums were sent to you
concerning Hessrs. Frank Anthony Sturgis, Eugenio Rolando
Martinez Careaga, Bernard lL. Barker and Vireilio Conzales. ‘
The papers detailed available information on the subjects. ; i
We said that Mr. Frank Antheny Sturgis had never been re- . _!
cruited by the Agency, that he was a soldier of fortune but i
that he had been associated with an Agency contact, tir. ~
Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, since the carly sixties. f
Their relationship was built on a mutual interest in Cuban f
exile activities. Mr. Martinez was recruited in January 19¢1
and has performed a variety of tasks for the Agency on Cuban
matters up until June of this year. He has been on a $2105.00
a month retainer since 1969. “ir. Martinez is a business 0
‘associate of Mr. Bernard Barker in a real-estate firm-in baat -
Mr. Barker was a resular contact of the Féderal Bureau of an
Investigation in Cuba when turned over to the Agency in mid~ %
1959. He was used as a source of information in Cuba until
- evacuated in early 1960. He was hired by the Agency in 1960
for work among exile groups and was terminated by the Agency
on 31 July 1966, No Agency contact has been maintained with

 

him since that date, A thorough investigation of our files i
at Headquarte and by our Station in Hiani has failed to :
turn up any information regarding Mr, Gonzales! connection
with any Agency personnel or Agency - -spensered activities.

 
 

we . a

S. Further, a memorandum was sent to you on 27 June
regarding peripheral Agency contact with an ex-enployce
of tir. James McCord, one Mr, Juan Rigeberto Ruiz Villeras.
Mr, Ruiz was used by this Agency as a translator during the
period June 1869 to June 1971, He has had no affiliation ~
with the Agency since that time other than a personal
relationship with a current Agency cmployee., One additional ¢
nenorandua was provided you on 5 July rezarding a Mr. Ross
Ward Lambert who worked for the Agency as a Contract Employee
from January 1965 until his retirement on 9 August 1971. Our
Office of Personnel referred Mr. Lambert to McCord Associates
for employment uvon retirement. He submitted a fornal
application but decided to accept employrient elsewhere,

6. Im addition to the above cited memoranda and several

lesser items of information provided telephonically to Nr.
Arnold L. Parham of your Alexandria office, the Director of
Central Intellisence informed you orally on 27 June regarding
-information available to us on Mr. Manuel Cgarrio Daguerre, a
Mexican national who has offices located in the same building
as the Banco Internacional of siexico City. In short, Hr.
Hanuel Ogarrio Daguerre has not had any operatienal contacts |
with this Agency. On 23 June the Birector of Central

Intelligence also infermed you orally regarding our information

se moe we my ey Foe a he ee ee eee oi eee ro The tant reteres
CUNCEMHsANE oP. nEUNC LA warty Vanliore. nG 2450 ToCoCrTacse

contact of the Agency with Mr. Dahlberg was in May 1961.

7. Our Gffice of Security is in frequent contact with
menbers of your staff in connection with the investigations
you are conducting. The above information is for your use
only and should not be disseminated outside your Bureau...

Vernon A. Walters
Lieutenant General U.S.A.
Acting Director

 

We
