 

  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
    

EO Gtegt at Pe.

 

 

 

nf OTR/AAE, the

 

  

PMAMAS] for one jay last

 

-itab testing fate and not nec -ssartiy .

oot of etext with ower evaluation mth seth ris,

 

t may te helpful in giving a rough gf ies of S'Hadts
cutetaniing character!istica-it should be reresbered thet the

lerratrects below only represent er define the relation: ip betwsen

“3 YAS ant TAL as ceen by tA anot necessarily real tes T 1 was asked

‘ke verte: out a set of deseripticna of hinself ani then sis gimore:

oct was as*e] to nare the persona who had filled certain roles in
s life or whom he hai various types of contact with, SUMAN wap

y T/1 as the parson "who vas the brother closest to your aye

  

lor «he person who claved the role of your brother", Tl wadghen asked

fe et ee a a

 

 

 

 

to jeter ne whether or not the pe-sonw he hai naned fitted or did

.

i
{
pret fit the descriptions he had written of himeelf ani of what he
kh

 

ap eonsideredfinp rtant characteristica.

h
. h.
wt
x - SUMAN and the oprosite co-stmet listed as "va."

      

The cooetréete are listed below with the first construct applying to

    
    

TUX was geen by T/i as deticated to his work and of high integrity °
V8e : ,
er ewhat cnise) ine, crooked, unidedliststic (#,5,F)

    
    

2c8YAN vas sean as nervous when raishg touchy or delicate issues
Te
_ Self-ass:red even wien discussing area not knowletzeable akout (87pF)°

    
 

: Ge Seen as of artistic tenporsment, inclined to be highly imaginative . Loe
¥8e
Very thorugh about work, leaving ne details to chance (8,F)

    
   
    

iD. Seen as greatly interested in engineering and math
More interested in literature and art (Nore). Oe

 
   
 

{E, Interested in politics mie econonics whitch he Gissect@ objectively

 
   

” Mtere sted in “organi cing pleasurable experiences (8,3,8y)

  
 

Be
cal early in life and worked hard for Ate canpletion (73)

  
 

104-10219-10123

eed

a.

 

 

 

 

BC tw

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cit 2
com, c/a, ifre 2,

OiR

RYBAT TivRamMa

 

s/c 2

 

t

'

REF GIR NOTE (ONT 56051

2. STA COMB Ter uTS PT OMMATEOHAL CONGRESSES PRECLUDES

REVIEW HEN,

C/S SQ4AnT: "REQUESTICO STA R
TIDRAMA/Y VICEY with Him:

 

REPRODUCTION BY

[

OUSER Tears thay ittats CHRICE 6

eo

Re

je
1. TAPES POUHED 11 auuST UNDER 0554 7785,

By

ENO OF MESSAGE

 

CVIEW TAPES AM CAPLE ALL DETAILS RE MERE $ aouaN, *

: |. @S8A-9780, 4td 11 Aug. 60 states merely GBnclosed herevith
are reference tapes”. (Ref is BIR-bb270)

_ac, Britten across face of Gispatch "RAPES STORED IT

      
  
   
   
  
    
  
  
   
 
     
    
 
   

 

  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
     
   
 
    
  

Ky SPAR wae soor. ag of cwnitevable arsictha sbility end eepiration
- ¥Be :

having creative teniercites subordinated to nore corventionel eine end

hot explatced. ((3) ;

I, SUMAN was seem as having achieved intellectcal resolutions at
We expense of Lebiug otvtionails immature.

Vie
Clean-eut, well balanced, *healthy® American (8y,8)

toa Possessing a hi hy —~de veloped sind complimented by great perecption
vee
Average -ertal acutenosg (flone)

K. Cares very littke for what othere think of hia bgt only far the
resultg of ir actions
V¥Be ond
& person who in strivigg for what he wants"is sonetings dishonest
cur creates a false impression (B,F)

L. Has an attitude which allows him to shrug-off problese..to, ethance. the
preater enjoyment of life .
VSe

Extremely conscienticus ami unable to shrug off problems but muat
tacmle then, (None)

r Me Possessing a quiet charm and basically attributing lifa to
the existence of unexplained forces
Ve
Fairly atheistic . : (Sy ,8,7)

WN. Lives in an artificial reality and ie not prepared for ordinary life,
or common sense probkems
VBe .
Paces reality an{ problems with courage (Hons) . #

OG. Has hg high ability but ia unable to use 1%
V8.0
Has applied self to his prafeseion and ie using his sbilities (ona)

?, Has hish ability bu’ hes. dietained.to use it, feeling « a frestretion
in the face of oppositiongto his originality.
Ve
es of abilities, nore conforming and not frustrated. (Hone)

“aga great belief in hinself and the courage to do what he feale is. right
q Wie
mn ity to work c Uretesely for secure achievement. (Sy)

 

 

 

ES . wt oe

a : . i BOY: fhe letters in parentheses indicate thet the charactortetioe
4 iencidered he @/. ap possessed by SUBAN 49 alee posancaad by the .
| pervon represented by we segpgur or letters (3-Slabov,3y-Sylverst, 4
Nehogele ,P-Flasriock) 3
Slebor-RIS C/O sha gs

perregegm acem ‘mee . 1

 

€P ) Noggle-Cia C/O a
(P) Fissmock-C14 C/O ° + tho we meeting with F/2 at tine of this
. assesszent, :

 

      
