senas

11 net dhe teh OL aire RNP CONOR tn pee aaa ecetnteti ettae + . : 1 : OE PimenmaAMET ewe fone

Crary

_ his loose handling of the truth.
DIR 47769, 28.10.66

 

 

While at the United Nations in 1961,-OLTMANS claimed.to be an
unattached and unsponsored UN correspondent. He was socially
ostracized by the Dutch delegation and fellow Dutch newsmen at
the United Nations for openly pro-Indonesian public stand and
was not permanently accredited to the United Nations. Dutch
correspondents stated they have never seen one story written by
OLTMANS in the obscure Dutch monthly he ostensible worked for,
nor could OLTMANS produce a single clipping to demonstrate his
journalistic activities. Despite fact his material not printed
OLTMANS traveled extensively and those knowing his personal and
financial status did not believe he would have been able to pay
for these trips even if his stories were selling. He-was viewed
with disfavor in reputable Dutch political and press circles for

 

 
104-10418-10243

ch press generally favorable towards GARRZSON interview; he
eared logical and in control of his facts. Fact program ap-
red on NTS, which usually more moderate, as well as fact
gram appears to have made deep impression unpon Dutch viewers
ch extremely damaging to US.

known whether OLTMANS originated idea of program or not.

HAGUE 3870 (IN 59064), 27 February 1968 .

 

(1 ae MONTES ELTON ESE ULM aaah artnet ron
on

_ person and presentation was sufficiently credible to elicit rather

Yn arene eNOS REED ST te at eRe

reepnpanapeene see . . : wen

Pete 1 1 nA Ren NRCC Ne ope RRR ETTCCCRN DERI HG ns : : ” goats
° an So attamacueiner sets eee

22. February 1968 +

A one- -hour exclusive interview with Jim GARRISON, New Orleans DA,
broadcast by Dutch television Foundation, at toy viewing time.

A calmaand composed GARRISON explained that President Kennedy mur-
dreed because his concept of detent was detrimettal to the "mili-
tary industiral complex". GARRISON repeated well-known thesis Kenned
victim of plot by CIA, who made common cause with the military-
industrial establishment, with vested interest in keeping cold war
going. GARRISON also stated CIA committeed to Asian land war while
one of President's last orders was for troop reduction tehre. He
predicted that the President who brings US to brink of peace will
suffer same fate as Kennedy.

When queried about the reason for program, especa#ally made for a
European audience, GARRISON said the growing CI A influence on US
media made it impossible for him to be heard in his own country.
The interviewer, OTLMANS, charcaterized by former colleagues as
someone “more interested in shady politics than in journalism.
During the traumatic New Guinea period OLTMANS acted as SUKARNO's
unofficial aid.

Comment: The most damaging aspect of tis program is that GARRIOSN'

  
 

favorable comment in the TV reviews from well-

informed
State Cable HAGUE 3981, 23.2.68 LUO newspapers

     

 
