74-0000

Aig ao

REE Rice satan na ck Ee it Oe Se: TR Lama ee Ren eee eR aesaN td

pebtr evr st
Cura weiibay
Operations Against Castro

The AMTRUNK Operation, starting in 1963, sought to develop a
capability to join dissident elements among the Cuban leadership into
a group that could oust the Castro regime. It was conceived by Cuban
exiles and sold to the Kennedy Administration, which assigned it to
CIA. The program was very slow in developing substance and momentum,
with little concrete progress during President Kennedy's life. Ata
later date, in 1965, it was believed to be corpromised and CIA withdrew
from its association; the key members were arrested later and tried in
Cuba. There are basic questions about the security of the activity
from its inception, due to the involvement of personalities who are
suspected of having pro-Cuban sympathies, including possibly having
been foreign agents. While the suspicions cannot be verified, the
reservations are sufficiently basic to consider the possibility that
Castro knew of the operation from its earliest days. Its long range
objectives--the overthrow of Castro and his regime--would have been an
irritant to Castro; its inability to develop any substance and momentum
unti} long after President Kennedy's death suggests that it is unlikely
that it, of itself, would have moved him at that time to resort to
assassination in retaliation. This is discussed at Tab C.

Operation AMLASH centered on a high-level Cuban official, AMLASH/1,
who had expressed his opposition to Castro and to the Castro regime.
The SSC Final Report undertakes to demonstrate that the operation planned
Castro's assassination during the period preceding the murder of

fe eae ie a) °F
Uviiiwoiieian

 
 
74-0000

President Kennedy; to the contrary, a full review of the operation s
shows that prior to the President's assassination not only had CIA
not agreed to give any support to AMLASH/1, but had rejected his

proposals to assassinate Castro. When evidence supporting this view 4

was offered the drafters of Book V of the SSC Final Report, it was

ee er

dismissed out of hand as false, despite confirming evidence. The ssc ;
Report, instead, having asserted that assassination was the character
of the operation at that time, then undertook to show that AMLASH/1
was at least indiscreet in his conduct, risking exposure of the plot. .
Alternatively, it suggested that he may have been acting for Castro
as a provocateur, to lead the United States into a plot against
Castro's life which in, turn was then to provide Castro with the i
justification to order President Kennedy's assassination. in either
event, had Castro learned about the relationship between AMLASH/1 and , :
CIA he would have known only that there vas an inconclusive association , i
that certainly had not progressed to the point that it constituted the ‘
basis for the postulated provocation. This is discussed in some detail
at Tab D of this paper.

The SSC Final Report discounts (at page 68) the possibility that

actual plotting by CIA with the criminal syndicate served as a source

are new considerations that developed in the course of the present

review that throw more light on the role of the criminal syndicate,

but they do not provide a basis.for taking issue with the judgment of
) the SSC Final Report, which dismissed the activity as having provided
Castro with the postulated provocation. This fs discussed at Tab C. '

2
i
4 for provocation for Castro to have President Kennedy murdered. There

7 foptesarces
Bul sote sake

 
 

 

a ee

   
74-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(whichever was under review) could have provoked Castro to order the

assassination of President Kennedy, had he (Castro) learned of it. ‘

The SSC, in its Final Report, fell into this very trap, trying to make i

the AMLASH operation actually fit the theory for which the SSC‘s .

presentation seemed to be tailored. (See Tab D.) i
We have looked at other operational activities with the SSC's

Conn See

t theory in mind, but have been unable to provide tangible substance : i

_in support of the theory. In the final analysis the reviewer is
compelled to fall back on the evidence. A wide variety of theories
can be--as they have been-~advanced in strident and challenging tones.
Not all of them are susceptible to conclusive answers; the primary
possibility of finding such answers was lost with the death of Lee
Harvey Oswald. The fact is that the Warren Commission considered the |
possibility of Cuban or Soviet involvement, but could not find evi- ‘

|

dence of it. Were it known at the time of the Warren Comnission, it

would have been reported and dealt with then; that it was not is a
simple reflection of the fact that it did not exist at that time in |
the minds of Americans knowledgeable on the subject. To hold dif-
ferently would be to accept uncritically a social paranoia often ‘

* prevalent today, which would hold that a significant number of
government employees could engage in such a well-disciplined con-

spiracy to suppress evidence.

CONFIDENTIAL

oe pstmt ee sn dc PT BET seth ayia lees enn A te arth NE EI UO oe na STR UE hae ns Be

Be teen nc voi ec a PI BONNER 0." ALLIRENCUAn ee ahas oh Memrmesabonee Keren rion amen ater

wre em eed

  

|
Sige
|

 
74-00000

. e r4
Hea Se
Qoepeea set eid see

the period preceding President Kennedy's death and the period following
2 it.
It was determined that a special research effort would be mounted
to review those Agency files that might relate to this problem. The i
organization for this research is summarized at Tab A of this paper.
It required not only the meticulous review of all Cuban operations,
& it necessitated careful analysis of the content and nature of the oper-
: ations with special attention to their security. Files relating to the
Warren Commission inquiry were reviewed as well as those relating to
plotting against Castro.
The results of the efforts of those assigned to the task are

contained in this covering report and in the separate annexes to it,
2 Tabs B through G. : '
i CIA has now conducted such a review -- looking at “the other end"

of a possible chain of evidence, where things theoretically could have i

started. This has produced no new evidence bearing on the assassination,

nels

os although it has produced the basis for new lines of speculation. In

g fact, the review sometimes seemed to become a futile exercise in trying
to fit facts to the provocation theory rather than being able to
identify evidence actually bearing on the assassination of President

Kennedy. The emphasis sometimes became one of asking if this activity

BR mepreg oy cee
RTS Sree . :
AETES pai 38 ote Le : i

REA NY I Ba Bh
be

 

es Iter eceRat Ra he  N Ney tate Fm eo cena Ses ma eu mR a

  

 
%4-00009

CONFIDENTIAL

The significance of these statements, to the authors of the SSC :
Report, is highlighted as follows:
"Certainly, concern with public reputation, |
problems of coordination between agencies,
‘possible bureaucratic failure and embarrassment,

and the extreme compartmentation of knowledge

one es

of sensitive operations may have contributed to

these shortcomings. But the possibility
exists that senior officials in both agencies

made conscious decisions not to disclose

potentially important information.” Page 7. !
A central feature of the rationale is the concept that if Castro

had learned of these activities {t would have provoked him into

!
retaliation against President Kennedy. The SSC Final Report makes | ‘
it clear that it feels this theory should have been perceived and |

accepted at the time by the intelligence agencies (not to mention

spear bie Do

the Warren Commission) leading to a review of the various anti-Castro |
programs to see what it might reveal. |
i

The provocation theory, in the specific form postulated by the 1

RoE eerie

    

SSC Final Report and the press, is of more recent vintage than the
perceptions that prevailed in 1964 when the Warren Commission was con-
ducting its investigation. There was a general concern in 1964 that

the USSR or Cuba might be behind the assassination of President

‘e |
, CONFIDENTIAL , —_

  
   
74-0000

san

 

:
;
‘
|

  
 

CONSENTS

Kennedy. This was based on a more broadly recognized understanding
of the tensions that existed between the Kennedy administration and the
Soviet and Cuban regimes. The Bay of Pigs in 1961 and the Cuban
Missile Crisis in 1962 must have appeared remarkably provocative to
Fidel Castro, along with the array of American anti-Cuban programs.
The humiliation of the USSR in having to retreat in the Cuban Missile
Crisis cannot be dismissed completely as to how it might have been
perceived by a foreign power as a provocation. To note these events
serves only to remind the reader of the tensions well recognized at
the time. The SSC Final Report has elected to emphasize instead CIA
operational activity against Cuba as requiring specific attention.
This emphasis on CIA's Cuban operations as a possible source of
provocation of Castro represents. the result of an evolution in percep-
tions. In response to it we undertook an extensive review of the
various operational activities against Cuba and Castro.
Organization for the Review

As there are no persons now in CIA who were directly involved
at a senior level in the investigation of 1964, it was felt necessary
to organize a fresh approach to the matter. The persons who, in 1963
and 1964, knew the details of the various operational activities are
no longer available, for the most part, to provide the current and
detailed factual familiarity that existed at the time of the investi-

gations. Primary reliance had to be placed instead on the records for

3
Cagers wut ret fa

dee tedy 9 seg

etme -

eeenmapmeanmeen  aeemmneneennnnee +

    
74-0000

epropiekesrmem 1,

  

, BS dederiene eee .
1

; _77-0090f, |

;

pa Le “
he, aN, Mahe seat Socbeabceatee vat
Soe, aac nna Naa .

*MATERIAL REVIEWED BY: Mr. G. Robert Blakey on 8 December 1977

(reviewed unsanitized version)

; Mr. G. Robert Blakey ard Mr, John-Ws-Hornbesk .

reviewed unsanitized version on Saturday, an
ss 10 December 1977, ; os

MATERIAL FURNISHED BY: Inspector General « sanitized and unsantite d
i copies

SUBJECT: Comments on Book V, SSC Final Report The Inyestigation of the

Assassination of President Kennedy: Performance of the Intelligence Agencies.
ONE COPY OF UNSANITIED VERSION --- COPY #7 .

FILED: HSCA 77-0090/1: Review at Headquarters: Comments on Book V

*Members of House Select Committee on Assassinations

CEE as hs ONE oe cmt

*MATERIAL REVIEWED BY: Mr. G. Robert Blakey on 13 and 14 December 1977

Mr. Gary Cornwall on 14 December 1977
Mr. Gary Cornwall on 15 December 1977

   

ttt pias godt

bea

 
 

104-40213-10079

 

  
   
  
   
  

Folder Subject:

V, SSC Fimal Repeat The Investigation of the Asgassination of

presiceyt Kenned™: ‘oe g * exfor TURN Ebtelli gence Agencies

HSCA Review at Headquarters - Comments on Book

DATE NOTES TRANSMITTED

staffers (Signature) Filled in by OLC

 

 

 

3
4
‘

 
1Mov00

mca tT tithe

vO vey . .
oe ceeenreten a tematesntNtn Ne ate setiotarainn samme
’

cei

cao gne te

Tab A.
Tab B.
Tab C.
Tab D.
Tab E.
Tab F.
Tab G.

4

ne Manes

  
   

BRS Ley

Scat aililineemenonten Seen oticnemomaeeniniadl pL care Bae Selatan Soy a in Soa ema

 

Table of Contents

nent

Summary of Findings

‘
Organization for and Conduct of the Review

CIA Performance on the Inquiries

CIA Operations Against Cuba Lt

AMLASH Operation
Materials Forwarded to Warren Commission and FBI
Mexico City Coverage of Oswald Visit

Selected Newspaper Stories with Comments

 

aa al eee | ae we.

 
s-00009

cba eee

‘Vivier! bf wt 6 Ee j
pee f

SUBJECT: Corments on Book V of the Final Report of the U.S. Senate :
Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with i
Respect to Intelligence Activities

oi. Book ¥ of the SSC Final Report, titled The Investigation
of the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: Performance of the
Intelligence Agencie » presents a number of issues that address thenselves
to the conscience of the Agency. The criticisms of CIA are based on a :
series of presentations of how various investigative leads were handled,
and on the non-reporting of various Agency operational activities that
the SSC Final Report judges to have been relevant to the Warren
Commission inquiry.

2. A stated thesis of the SSC Final Report is that the operations
of the intelligence agencies against Cuba exercised a negative influence
on the quality of their support for the ‘arren Commission investigation.

The following statements appear in the Report: ,

lta BE EL OES Lt he

"1¢ (the SSC Report) places particular .

é

emphasis on the effect their Cuban opera-

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

tions seemed to have on the investigation.” ; i 7
| :
Page 2. :
t
"They (senior CIA officials) should have i

realized that CIA operations against Cuba, i

particularly operations invotving the

assassination of Castro, needed to be con- i
sidered in the investigation. Yet, they

directed their subordinates to conduct

an investigation without telling them of i
these vital facts.” Page 7.

MAMTA EYL! a

 
    

aal has eee notes a
no: Lins cain ai east oi ae aaa Teen < z é
lh iene ASE et cheery ibagi gs op, ca
