 

 

     

 

aot be cons trucd:-as peing extensive or
-report: wit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Be ‘There are no Headquarters traces ‘on

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

, .
co _ : oe Tayre are no Headquarters traces: on :

 

 

 

 

 

CONFLOENTIAL
 

 

 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

   

 

 
 

 

 

 

“gut soméewnat ard face.

 

   

 

ay ‘a fine of
n-days of con
was nothing ‘criminal in |
t.a trial and a jails

 

 
   
   
  

government needs tie money

“5, “Some of the more acti

mda ti a after graduation.

ig, Source haard avout another organization, the. opera-

~ tivatki, out he-does not know the di fference between them and.

the druzninniki. It seems that the operativnik are a little

higher. in rank, Tney meet in secret, no.one announces their

_ meetings, or the names of tae members. No one knows or talks:

“about it. os : aoe me

‘De In the Institute of Foreign Languages, the chief ‘of

tie operativnik was Vladimir SHUMRIKOV, born. 1939, about 186 cm,

tally sturdiTy builds an athlete (former snotputter) who has

_ short wavy hair, dark eyes, large features, and a fairly handsome, |
He graduated from [d1lYaz in 1973, speaks

i drink, always hangs around the fore

eigners. at the sport. meats, -SHUNRIKOY has been a Party member

“since 1973. Source saw him saveral. times with Yevaeniy SURGATOV. -

(KG8)' in -a Binsk bar. SHUNRIKOV also knows KCB senior lieutenant

Anatoliy Alexsandrovich AxSENOY, : :

oi :

 

Englisi ‘and German, lixes to

COURLOEH TEAL

 

  
  

 
  

 

 

 

 

beth ho
TEDDLOD

  

 

 

“Gate OF LATERVIEM. 2 26-28 April 1977

to assist the -militra in ma , :
‘ : 196
ave’ since become official appendages of

of such posts in each. rayon (precinct

; cer of tae militia there, witu severa

   

 

OF TWFORWATION: 1989-76. =

  

 

lians who volunteer
: -Al though
tie druzniny.ori ginated spontaneously in. about: y they”

c : the militia, There.
is at least one druzhina fn eaca factory, public. and commercial
enterprise, iastitute and. technical, school. . Although the

druzhina officers are. supposedly elected, they actually “are
A ‘duty ‘roster

1.. The druzhina fs: a. group of civi
i intaining public order

 

 

- Sppotnted by tne administration at.the factory. \
ts posted. Almost everyone except the management has to be on
It is very

duty at one time or another; no one can refuse.

nard to make people, especially the factory workers; roam the
streets on druzhing duty after a day's work because they would”
rather go home. a I : :

9h: In the institutes. the druzhiny operate. this way.
After lectures all the students of a particular department have -
to. attend a compulsory meeting... Tne senior druzhinnikof the —
dnstitute is in charge of the meeting, tocetner. wi th ‘the, senior
ruzhinnixt and. deputies in the departments. Those. students
who for some, reason did not manage to escape this duty (using
a medical excuse, infludnce. with’ the chief, or other means),
are then marched to the nearest druzhina post, There are dozens
J of the mititia, usually
Usually there is an offi-
li militiamen of lower ranks.

G77

in the basements of apartment houses.

  

MITTAL

 

 

Kiya -

 

:
a
&

&

 
   
 

 

 

  
 
 

 

there are ways ‘t
t can dé. shown: ¢!
a’ person..can:
the dépar tal

  

Department; th:
number of citi
the law that it e

‘make entires. in the internal passports of citizens regarding
this department therefore gets: |
many visitors. “The department also enforces passport regulations.

-El.. The Guards and protection (Okhrana) Department
ection to special. .

 

 

ides escorts for prisoners and. guards

et F. Department of Burglar and Intrusion Alarms (otdel
-vnevedomstvennoy okhran OVO), Source did not have any informa-

tion on this department except that he thought it provides guards .

_ cand watéhmen for various enterprises in addition to its work
with alarm, systems. : met .

G. | Motor Pool (Motodivizion) provides and maintains
patrol cars and motorcycles for the militia.

CONFIOENTI AL

     

  

Employees of this department -

fon studios and stattons..

 

feels eee

  

 

 

 
 

  
 
  
 
 

  
    

Le vnutrennikh
City Sovie

 

  
  

   
   

    
  
 

 

representa vés in thet re. foreigners: :
“Turist, the ‘Yubileynaya, and: the ‘Minsk. ‘Source knew of- two.
“members of ‘this ‘sinall ‘section, Vladimir KOVALEV aind- (fae) *. .

> PINYAZ® (who are covered, ina separate “‘yéport).4.

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

. ee —SE7SAG7OP - a _
_sess/or 7 Oct 77). Oe aa
“Disthibution: : A
Orig - IP/OMSE (please classify {nto ‘201- 0948382): .

1 C/SE/SAG, cyse/io, "SE/USSR .

E/RR ,

Pe:
1 - SE/CI, Attn:
1. - SE/SAG/OP chrono

 

 

 

: ; DES-PY FS Pate
cOoN FIrIOENTIAL ~ .
 

 

 

 

 

 

‘no. Headquar
para 5).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8..- There are ‘no Headquarters: traces ots

(paras. 2-5). --— an ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Is. assigned-to the

 

 

 

“ CONFITLOENTIAL
 

104-10181-10154 : ‘ ; .

 

 

 

2. KOVALEV, Viadim
rank of senior lieutéenan
of medium. but. :
very near 2 wee
inconspicuously. and has the appearance of an red®
person. et : Me,

 

3. KOVALEV. fs. married to Tamara nee MATVEYEVA, and they have - : an
a son, born in about 1972, who attends a special “kindergarden for — Lo aoe
the children of high-ranking and other privileged officials. .
KOVALEVA, .the. daug ofa retired KGB lieutenant colonel, isa... os
graduate of an economics, instituté and works as a senior economist...
for thé State Committee. for Standards, earning 170 rudles per. aonth.

The KOVALEVs live on: Bobruyskaya ulitsa directly opposite. bus

  

 

 

i station. =.

 

 

; 4. KOVALEV is a graduate of the Minsk State Pedagogical
Institute of Foreign Languages. where he studted Spanish and English
dn the Department of Translating. . After graduation, KOVALEV left
“Minsk. for one year to go.into the Army. However, Source found this”
hard to believe, as he knew that KOVALEV had been turned down for —
military service in 1966 because of nearsightedness. During the
time that KOVALEV was in the Army, his wife told Source that where
her husband was serving “they put army boots on once a month, just
for show.” KOQVALEV's rilitary service card (voyennyy bilet)
nevertheless indicates both his 1966 rejection and the year that he
supposedly spent in the Army.”

 

   
 

EEY'S| father-in-taw was instrumental
a SP? 7
tame tne nw tt at f0/-9P¥RIPL

5. Source believes pRRee.xpve
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

affairs cadens ts an vnutrennikh del, ovo); in each of the

‘six rayons (precincts) of. Ninsky ‘as follows:

A. Frunze ‘Rayon: ovo, on Obuz* haya ulitsa.

8. . Tsentral 'nyy Rayon OVD, on the corner. of: Respubli-
kanskaya ulitsa and Komsomol ~skaya ulitsa.

Cc. Savet Rayon ova, on Ploshchad' Ya.Kolasa. °
0. Oktyabr! Rayon OVO. ,

E.- tenin R Rayon OVD, at Serebryanka Mikro- rayon.

Fo Zavod Rayon ovd, ‘on Partizanskiy prospekt..

Each of these rayon ‘OVDs (known as ROVO) consists

: a
of the following departments (0 otdeleniye e):

A. ‘Investigations Department (Sleds tvennoye, otdeleniye),
the largest component of the. ROVD,. conducts “investigations of ;
al] crimes committed within the boundaries of the rayon. Accor-

ding to Source, the best educated and most highly trained

investigators and 1 EES CoE militta are to be found _
oe fr "RECORD CO, V phige? (IAF

CUMFLDENTIAL ee Spi she

 

 
