ll 01 79-10044 Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Boag ‘ a Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)

  

 

- Tele
Tht moterol centoins nfocnanon offecnng tte Nationot Defense of the United States within the meanang of the Esnonage Lows,
18, USC Seco 793 ond 794, the tronemison oF revetotion of which cn ony manner to an unowthonted pecon pronsved by low.

oo. sedi iintieicticiia al 4ile fuk ; 7
=

, country Cuba REPORT NO. OO-2 3,176, 1e% i
' 7 {
| sussect Manvel Fay‘e Plane for the Future DATE DISTR. 7 cesary 1962
: 2.
T NO. PAGES
coun = guuce REFERENCES
Back ot Rev" Supplement to 003-3,168,498 and
DATE OF po 00B-3 268,643 !
INFO. Jan 61 ie

THIS tS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US citizen, free-lance writer and part time sugar broker. .'

 

-+ Bource speaks Spanish, has resided at intervals in Cuba since youth, has had
contacts for many years among Cubans in the sugar business, and move .
perecnally many present and former Cuban political and cdministrative
personalities. Source lived in Havana during the entire calendar year 1959,
working with the Sugar Stabilization Institute and collecting material for .
on analysis of developments in Cuba since Fidel Castro's victory. ~

|

}

:

{

Hy

!

|

i. One of my Cuban friends, who is vell-acquainted with Manuel Rey and his

underground apparatus inside Cuba /See Report Number 00B-3,105,498 for
earlier data coucerning Ray's group and its plans. See also Report Number
00B-3,268,643 for other ramifications of underground activities/, hes just

| given me data concerning Ray's future plans. .

2. Ray and his group intend to continue to participate in the fight now in
progress inside Cuba against Castro and will do everything possible to overs
throw him. ‘The new angle in their thinking fe that they now plan to have
nothing whatsoever to do vith the provisional government which all antie
Castroites expect to see organized in Cuba, folloving Castro's eventual
Govnfell. Ray end his group plan to sit tack and let others take part in the
provisional government ani themselves enter the active political arena only
when elections are held. They plen to do this, because they are convinced,
first, that the provisional government vill make a lot of enemies far itself,
and, second, because they are sure that their group is the oly political
haven where those people who supported Castro originally, but who are new

. @pposed to him, can find shelter and remain true to their ideals. This is
merely another vay of stating the Ray group's original conviction that they
a@lone are the supporters of the revolution in Cuba, the revolution vhich
Castro began, but which he then betrayed. Consequently, they are going to ~
let the other groups demonstrate their incepacity during the period cf the
provisional government. Once that incapacity shall have been demonstrated,
go reason Ray and his group, all patriotic Cubans will turn to then. Shey
feel that time and history are on their side.

 

eend-

 
