 

  

. SECRET
Sree’ Information Pres area
26

(a) Cut-out services (HIMABOID),

(b) Penetration of [~ ————SSS—=*| (UMANOND-ZII),

‘(e) (HUAKOID I and HUMANOID 31),
(a) Penetration of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(e) Information emanating fros university and intellectual
@ircles (HUMANOID), .

(f) Parallel penetration [siz

(g) Additional sources of infarmation on political movements,

6. The current method (s) of sontact and > mmunications between HUMANOID
end HUMANOID-11I 1s not clear to Headquarters. THKEAW1084 indicated that
AUMANOID planned to close his photo shop thus eliminating the letter drop and
safe house that had been used Previously for contacts between these agents s
TRSA1215 pointed out that "contact between cut-out (HUMANOID) and agent
(HUMANOID.1I1) is the veakest security link in the project at this tine.®
It ie expected that the field security survey vill describe present contacts
and communications in sufficient detail to clarify these points and indicate
if the security risk involved has been rezoved or reasonshly minimized.

VP : between HUMANOID and
agents a Teasombiy secure. dovever, it is no
af the is witting of the operation. His permission to intercept

fag obtained by HUMANOID who indicated. to the

    

 

 

 

 

 

y cover axy[__|
of interest rather than merely comunist The station presmes
that thie expamied coverage hag, done vai thatthe eaRTTeage of the Director.

en

The alacrity (apparently) vith which the Director acceded to BOMABOID' g

request, and the assumption that the Director 1s not aware of the expanded
coverage, suggests possible security hazards which should be considered by the
field station. Of importance 1a the possibility that the is a
shared operation. It is publicly known that/ auth 3

sonstines confiscate commnist

 

 

 

   
or i
rodt0215-10002 ts

\ . i : = . . 7 |
: ya oo,
1 ®& Jt .

i +
:

 

Wias Amr

Sen
SPECIFY Ate ne 3f4 Pouce

 

To * Chief of Station,
_ FROM + Chiag, WE
SUBJECT: Genera. Operational ;
SPECIFIC? Gacurtty Roview of Current Operations ~ Profest EIMABOID :
REF: Field Regulation Ho. 50-20, 2 July 1952 i

1. Your attention 4s invited to the PFrovisiofs| of the referensed
regulation which require periodis reviews of operations.

   

  

 

 

eee aaa Aty of the operations, ia
eocomance with the nro na of paragraph 16 Gf tho referenced regulation, .

4 Project EUMANOID is camprised of four agentas spairapaerd "5 s. citisen i
Cognizant of ewployer of Station Chie tartar" nlgenra BMA mo.
sgent,|

i
i
1

  
  
  

  

 

 

 

 

i
} |
5e The objectives of project HUMANOID as sot farth in the approved 1
Project outline, are as follovss , : |
tJ .
oe nee ,
= Yrs ene pores
‘ee o9-82268 .

 

via.

CLASSIFICATION

  

 
 

L
4
E
!
i
i
5
5
2
Pa
?

RM IRR SE TRENT OOP i PEPE

t
i
¥
P
i
;
t
+
i

 

> seener

Security Information “AL
~3e i

ES ALOE}

initiating security clearance action. This
would ‘specially it if the Director has extensive knowledge
of the or other, station operations,

to such additional nets, thsre is the
possibility that cCanproise of this one k
virtually

e7 individual vould dJeopardize
ell cur operations in the areae

Tt ig recamendsd that this matter be considered by the station if
and when any additional neta ere created. Consideration should be given to
the recruitaent of additional cutouts in arder to avoid over dependence on
& single agent. “

9. In March 1951 a technical survetllane was Conducted on an individual
of interest. Two agents HOiANOID and HUMANIST were utilised in the monitoring
phase of the operation. When local authorities detected the operation, »
HUMANIST vas apprehended interrogated, ang ultinately revealed the idents
of the Chief of Station teinca replaced), After a thorough review of available
evidence, Headquarters con

curred with u inion that HUMANOID
probably had not been identified by thel rment.

ie noted that the investigation by tho

 

a Wa |
' Chief of Detectives and reportedly a follower of .

 

et boxe poameg Partctration in the inve tion may or may not be
alenits use of his adherence to In any
xD'g role in the surveil) be thoroughly reviewed if

 

 

 

—jare fulfilled in the national elections
“weet year. It is also recomended that constant efforts be made to confirm the
belief that HIMAEOID was not contamimted,

10. A review of HLMAROID's past and Fresent contacts vith egent
Feveals that he hes had Clandestine

intelligence relations with EHUKANIST
(paragraph 95 above), HUGGER, HUMAROID.1, HUMANOID-IT, and HUMABOID..1IT,
Both dUHANIST and EICCER have been teraina

indicate the circunstances attending their termination have in any way affected
the security of ECMANOID, Honatheless, 1¢ {8 noted that HUMANOID! s intelligence
activities are known to a widening circle of indigenous agents. In this
connection 4t must aleo be remembered that HUMANOID?

8 services in behalf of
“the Americans" are known to the Director he

@aph 7 above). Moreover, in July 1951 985 reported the fact thet
HOMANOID's wife, a Costa Rican, vee vit his

intellige
SECRET ep sash

mse activities.

event it is recommended

——
+ emapeecenneavmmeamerette :

 
foocoe

. ~ _ :

a A SECRET = |
- Security Information sea\ HAIR) .
eho :

It is recommended that the ebove information be evaluated by the
field station vhen the independent field survey of project HUMANOID is :
taxlertaken. Pertinent coments should be made regarding the significance . 1
of this information from a security viewpoint. .

. ll. In summary, it is recomended that HUMANOID exercise extremes caution
an in ali of his intelligence activities. Although there 13 no Glearly defined

 

 

i security problem involved, paragraphs 9 and 10, above, suggest areas of
i possible danger. i
$n : t
ae 12, The attached diagrem illustrates our present understanding of the
i HOMANCLD operation. Comments on the diagram as well as the text of the .
above review will be appreciated. 3
j . :
1 Attachment . Gi
| Je Co KING ;
Ful: bw By
| 19 September 1952
|
t

 

 

: |
a
| 8106 : . |
: weet or nt . ,
: ite ,. “EQ i 19 2 y2 Shy Al
“@ 78 yy iT ; .
Lge SECRET gases fe
Oh . “wot 1C88 81

 
