"MEMORANDUM FOR: -Mr. Marion Johnson’
J National Archives

SUBJECT : Mandatory Review of Four Warren
Commission Documents
1. Pursuant to your request we have reviewed the
attached four documents in order to determine whether
the classifications ascribed.to them need to be retained.

Our conclusions are detailed below.

2. Top Secret Document , Subject: Conference

with the CIA on March 12, 1964 (List No. 1, Item 19).

There are only two segments of this document:
which have continued to be classified at our
request, specifically the name of one person
in paragraph ‘one and the entire second paragraph.
We should now like to remove all restrictions
concerning paragraph two, but we want to continue

to withhold the person's name in paragraph one.

3. Top Secret Document, dated 24 June 1964,
Subject: Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko (List No.'1, Item 27)
We have no objection to the declassification

of this document in its entirety.

.
 

-? a . .

ee a , ‘ _ MeUUL Y ar (Pte

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel

SUBJECT : Declassification of Warren Commission
Documents

1. In accerdance with existing arrangements, we
have been asked by the National Archives to review four
Warren Commission documents for possible declassification.
One of the documents is classified in its entirety,

i whereas only certain segments of the others remain in
classified status. Copies of the affected materials
are attached.. ~

 

\ . 2. We see no reason to continue the restriction

i ; on document B. Similarly, document A would normally

: require no further withholding from the public domain,

i but checked with Mr. David Murphy, an: Agency official
unde and he requested that

\ . his true attiliationr not be revealed at this time. He

is still under cover and uncoordinated revelatio 32
true status could become an embarrassment to th .
3. Documents C and D would go beyond what we want

to release now about our dealings with defectors and the
determination of their legitimacy.

 

 

 

 

4. A suggested reply to National Archives is
attached. We recommend your signature.

/>f
Raymond G. Rocca
Deputy Chief
Counter Intelligence Operations

Attachments
: . EZ IMPDET
i Distribution: CL BY 006593
: Orig Gl Addressee

A. DC/CIOPS/Chrono
Yl - Warren Commission File
- CIRA/RS/Chrono-

SECRET

1

 

2p
4. Top Secret Document, Pages 63-73 from
Transcript of the Executive Session of the President's
Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy,
January 21, 1964 (List No. 2A, Item 1)

We wish to continue the classification ©

-of this segment of the transcript.

S. Top Secret Document Entitled Report of
Proceedings Held at Washington, D.C., June 23, 1964
(List 2A, Item 18) .

“We wish to continue the classification

of this document.
TEREST Faebh_yv

ay rr °
. >

13-00000
