   
 
   
  
    
  

 

\
i a! i}
i.

(1 tats conversation, te erin an poking Mey Ysmgnela Ret.)

ot recaris show, coxa ata nit shoe the Soviet or Ox

 

   

Butesoles. stn wth Mtn, 3 0 1 October, 1563. a :

en 2 cat ar ta |
eee A nan calls the Soviet iaittary Attache in broken -

EoD eee

eof talted to thet Con. Shey bef sald thay wuld smal telagrea to Hoaktagton,

 

te ott a fe ee ag me Sovieta oak hin to call

: ots pene mabe a eee Bin 5-6-5, saying to oak fit 'a Caneel

oe 1 ostotany 10:45 Bi « "(antag th wth GMD ond He

coe eaten as re fo manne 9 ore 35.)

_ soe ona called the Soviet Tatessy ent announced Ms oin mane, saying be hed.

° aittted. them the previous Saturday end epchens with a Consul. they head eala they
"ud, sent m teleggrn to Washington, dan be vented to Know Af there vere anything
new. He did not renesier the nese of the Consul. the Soviet, sho ves Euheswy

guard OBYEDKOV replied: "KOSTIKOY; he is dark." CSWALD replied: "Yes, uy

 
 

 

 

 

~ 10+

name ip OGWALD.” whe Soviet excused himself for a minute and then said they

“hein received anything yet. OSWALD asited if they hadn't done anything ond.

the guard replied they hed sent a request tut that nothing hed been received

ea yek."  CBYATD started to say: "And what...", wut the Soviet bung up.

3 October 1963 - A nan speaking broken Spanish at first end then Englioh

“Phoned the Soviet Military Attache and asked bout a vied. uhe Atteche’s office

_ referred him to the consulate, giving the mmber 15-60-55. the caller wrote it

dom. ‘he attache official shrugged off another question about whether the callor

could get a visa, and the comrersstion ended. (tere is no specdal reason to

‘tie this in with OSHAID, who 1s now known to have re-entered the U.5. et Laredo the

same day.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

information on Lee OSWALD also coms to the attention of [Prenident LOEZ uateos |
after 22 Hoverber. The next day, 23 November, he enlled it to the attemtion of
our Chief of Stakion, who was already working feverishly on the cane. Sinklarly,

the Mextcens noticed the involvement of Cuban Consuler aaployee Silvia DURAN, @
  

 

  

ah ee mi etl ie excuses hinnel? fur,

 

the Ancamontence De Dae emused eo SLivia DUN enya fa ol ight,

 

"(pS septenber - sivia DORAN calle the Soviet Eabaety fim the cian.

Consulate. Sha nays Shab shea the Aneriean with hn egnn, “the Bovket

 

mower ents Der to wt, ‘en note Soviet tae wy tha one, Site pte
the American on. the foaricaa trica to talk Russian to the Soviet tho annexe
| tn glia. She Amero ask hin to pen Rosetm. She huectoen eays that be

"nah Deon the Doriet Haiinewy antl eptiom with the cciea;’ ant that they het =

 

takon bis aidress. ‘the Goviet replies thet he knows thst. ‘the American then —

says, souerbat eniguatically; "I d4a not know {¢ then. I went to the Cuban _

ey Eubasgy to ack them for ny address because they have it." the Soviet invites hin

to stop hy egais and give then the address, and the American agrees to do #0. -

 

 
   
   
 
 
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Go eat Hin trons ven sey SLE Cen alan aan,

   

the Covich Sint aats her to walt, ant Yin che hes to oylain the whole thing

 

or Sn ont eet faa, tte a te mer a

 

“prontoes to call er back. Stivia DORA concen this ca ty telling the

Sri eh rn ame ar De an fr he eet ter

 

oS waltetta, “Be snk er to shone  (Sereny Semis) KATIEIED (Gren Secreteny .

"sto muta ot the Balen) to eve hin the nev atone nt be asta wo thn Ost
Cultural Attache 43. Slivia IRA gives te Attacha'e nme os Teresa FORA ex
"ata ter telephone aber.

gente hos ms - A Soviot official calle Stivia DURA beck ext

“tele her that the oan” ka been to see the Sovlet's and show thea a -

letter frau the Doviet Consulate in tashington tedtcating that be hed een

“wetting for viseo for Mime? anh a wite to go to tha Soviet Ualon for Ions

of

tte, fit that no ansver hed came from Veshington, adding that the welt ves
"- gometimes four or five months. The "American" head show the Soviets a letter

‘showing he wes @ neuber of en organization in fevor of Cubs end hed claimed that

the Cubans coulda not give him a visa without 2 Rueclan visa. Silvia DURAN.
13-00000

    
   
 
    
  

 

 

- to th Seorotny of State. om etay 6 December 196 Dat Atorey ener

| Reo tao rove fh a's ogi eto eS

 

 
   

SAID on pam a ou ee DRE gave us @ cozy ot the Soviet

 

 

Conner #136 on QSWAED ssh bat enn mblicly ven by th Soret beam 7

 

   

 

tet, | to na My nrg tr,

| eng a 38 van ond ony ty the enthakoe tations Yen. .

| Attar the firat fou dave, the CUA investigation of the case wae Dental

ab nner wat ay ar th nin mt
| inst snort semi ete, a ty ott ol sits of ou eter:
| Senter Division.

Rep fra Hexies

A Boon @s our -Nexleo City Station realized thet Lee OSWALD vas the prima:

'. suapect, Ht began re-neroming alt the written teleshone treneceiyte tn ite

files m covering the goviet Enbassy for the pertinent period. “he actuel tapes
were alo review, tu ay of thn hat town crate arte the soa fo oe

weit. ‘Several calls beLteved to involve OSHALD were discovered mk ani thelr

 
Howse, ‘he State nerartent, the Flared urom of Eoestisnton,

 

— O5UND's mene was not actually mentioned th these eAdttione celle, tut

 

toh kt ae en on These

 

 

| A Sapte 1969 to 5 otter 163, thn tole a ooo ria viatt to Hesleo-

city a later Leamed from trol recorta,

 

27 Septenbue - Amon phones the Soviet MiLitery Attache ext says he
nots visn to opto Ole, tn eavering ene be sm kh 1-60.55 en
| este for the Consul. “oar enya
(Toe ts no epectah season for Linking fin ca to CAD.)
27 serteber, 4105 PM - The cuban Consulate s voce the soviet connate. :

‘otivia Duras, Hectoan national clan of the Citen Cansilat talted to 0 soviet

 

official, saying thet e male Anerican clitaga ‘van ef the Cuben Conmilate asieing

for a transit visa to pess througs Guba on his way to tha Soviet Unios. She

 

heave no problem about it. Ye a Soviet viea 1s asmured, the Cuban Consulate

2.0)- 259245

 
_e sek ct sti nee 9 ore

an soe pbesay ta wextco > ety wes srotatty ‘She Lee, OsHalD sho hat A detected to

  

© ts soe tenn 259 on rete ot IR i 552. 1 oe 65,

os he ay after the report fo Ween tty, CIA Rewiguerters oot out cle. ;

 

 

_ Fart ot an QDs howe oth to on Soret aaa the oar et to
the mI, thn Darartnent i State (Deome CEWAD va 8 U.S. cise), at to .

the Navy Department (onmine Mo we 8 former ire) ae cahled report to these

 

- comcien bihlighed te 1Atbeod Wat the Lae CHWAD stoned va pobbly he
gocues detest A cony of thin some cable was delivered by bent to the
“paleration et atwliction Servic, vith veh wo hve wo ele ak ‘the
. "cme ty eng ete wet oot to ts city ttrnng ou Staion of he

- pactgrount of defector Lee (EWALD ani asking for mare tnfersstion. Out Station

 

‘was instructed to pass its information on the shone call. to the Hexteo City offices
wh of the FBI, the Eubasay, the Novel Attache, and the Iumigretion oni Naturalization

Services. This was done.

 
 

104-10418-10280

 

aa

Te eenta ts ba XAAZ © (7As 3

{eo Dee G3

'

JG

Discovery of OSWALD in texieo City Posting Purpeses Circa l@Dec es

 

Summary of Osnel Care Preporect fee
:

 

 

Erect Vete  Onknewn)
Oa 1 October 1963, the CIA Mexico City Station intercepted a telephone

 

call Lee OSWALD mede from an unkmown location in Mexico City to the Soviet
Pubassy there, using hls om name. Speaking broken Rugsian ond using bis tme
me nome, OSWALD vas talking to the Iubessy guard, OBYIDKOV, who often answers the

phone. OGWALD said he hail visited the Eebassy the previous Saturday (23 Septexber

 

 

1963) end spoken to a consul whose neme he haa forgotten, ond vho hed promised to
send a telegram for him to Washington. He wanted to Imow if there were “enything
new.” The guard said $f the consul was dark it wes (Valeriy Vladimirovich}
KCSTEXOV. ‘he guard checked with someane else and sald that the message het gone
"out wut no answer bad been received. He then bmg up.

3 This plece of information was produced from a telephone tep center which |

 

 

we operste [jointly|with the | Tt ts highly

 

 

 

 

secret and not knows to who heve

 

 

 

Lihete owe center) By 9 October, the CSWALD telephone conversetion of 1 Cctober

nad been transeribed and a summary of it cabled to Yashington.
CLASSIFICATION REVIEW —

conpucTeo on_2.9_ MAY 1976

aie Cae

E_imeoer cy syG/22 03

 

: Document Number BGT = 72, 6

for FOIA Review on MAY 1975

; vee 6l- 239248

 

 
 

do Le (_ {
C) .

  
   
  

 

Anfoonation we get te eatresely incriminating, and on ote or two cousins we

 
  
    
 

“here a ye te le to tna mol eto to be ertom nt

verwommel whe are attmpting to detect Ta alt such canes, our Hoetquarters :

 

 

 

dock requests sod obtains the apecel perniaston of the Depy Disector fur Fm

 

"to yamine Gagnon Sntnation on #0. tae to the ear ete
ie wre sot stormed of whet action the Tar aol other agen may have taken at
7 “Hine nc on our eset tater iuvestigation has confimed ell the details
® Saghin erty sho ste and idat he aid. _ wold cosas tn th
- fy or Paton tain tere minh saps ef ha om he we nov
| toc 9 2th soo 3 sera en ee hr in br ei

Sas pub out. ;

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

ea Pe:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

 

State Dect the Fa

 

et a sie ty ee nti on

 

within a week, twenty-seven cabal reporta bed been eat to the Witte House, the

  

“CFA Sie wtationn provide nexy Mtr of tnferaton ing the wk

a after the assasoinetion. qhe leo City Station reenarched ite telarhine

tage vey enonly ail enee up eave ore conversations neobahly
evens OID, ttn iy neon ta mes he cmc Non 7

“tae to te osten Cmtate SnHasin ty. & Several Yexicons vere arrestel, :

cA evita sh a tet, civing © oot pistire of vat ha was sony

Mo ae A nont of tairteators, same eoarymnun, Yoerded overseas exteaniee

sith spacious 88 on the ease, moet of Wich ve tnvesbhgxed. “All of these were

soon Siseratited, & it they are et221 coming in.
During this ghase of cur work, we served prinarily in sugport of the FAI,

viich wis entrusted by the President with the major xesponsthility for the

 

investigation. the Deportamnt of State phatogreybel its entire f1te on
