 

[ha t0d0-t0416

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Bo No Not Reproduce,

  

USE UNLY

 

4,

Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counse
Wednesday - 1 December 1976

 

5. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON In the absence of Eliot
Maxwell, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, I informed
his secretary, Michal Shafer, that Maxwell should be in contact.
with DOD concerning a visit to their facilities in Los Angeles and
San Francisco and we will arrange visits to our facilities. Ms, Shafer
said she would pass the message to Maxwell.

6. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Danny Childs, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligerice staff, concerning our discussion
yesterday regarding Reserve release letters and the possibility of
a letter from Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) stating Committee
approval of this release and asking that procedures be set up to
transmit future approvals. I told Childs that I thought the “Agency -
would oppose establishing such procedures and asked if we could
discuss this before the letter is sent. Childs then alerted Bill Miller,
Staff Director, to expect a call.

7. (Confidential -GLC) FAA BRIEFING Accompanied the
Director to a briefing of the Defense Subcommittee, House Appropriations
Committee, on the 16 November 1976 Presidential finding. (See
Memorandum for the Record, )

8. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON In the company of Mr. Carpentier,
met with Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, to provide him with comments on the Kessler article
of 26 November 1976 and to discuss several related matters. (See
Mr. Carpentier's Memorandum for the Record.)

(Confidential - PLC) LIAISON At the request off]

Ie
German Desk/DDO, for her response to a cable from the
ot I called Dick Kimmel, Document Control Specialist .

UN

for the Joint Atomic Energy Committee, to determine the distribution
of a Committee publication of a statement by former Commissioner
Dixie Lee Ray, Atomic Energy Commission, on 6 August 1974 on
uranium enrichment, Kimmel said the publication was of an open ;
hearing and was given standard distribution including the International
Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. Lockley was so advised and will

cable the field. / 8 G1

 

CIA INTERRAL Us. &
