13-00000 —
25/11-63.

- The: President of the United States of America, John F Kennedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald by direct order of the government of
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. "Now all is over" was password
to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist but he
must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China,
Later he was spy for us. When Lee H Oswald had returned fo USA we’
contacted hin anew aod freshened up his mind “you have been a spy
for us" and told him what could happen to him if FBI got informed.
Now we had him, He got his last information in Mexico. /It was not
good to assassinate Kennedy in Mexico/ "Fair Play for Cuba" was
started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro for the as-
ssassinated. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba
when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the assassin
ation. When Cuba was attacked by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend
himself. It that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted, We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for A-
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this war and whole the world should be Communistic. Then we should
assassinate Krustjev and other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader
of the NEW WORD. When this letter will reach you they have maked
away with me and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is archinese spy~shool.

My name is Ryo Liang Yiian. Officer in the department. for State-secret.

 

 

 

ents a eam LE PS RATA ent

Sang Ae I tN NT SCS Sait ESNIPS 8
If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to USA.

r
13-00000

a)

MEM. FI,

   
  

American Embassy
Strandvagen 101

STOCKHOLM No

. EMBASSY OF THE
. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Mw & ~ (933

"MAILROOM
STOCKHOLM

| EET EE LE =

 
13-00000 =-

 

DB MEMO #6585
3 January 1964

ry YAAZ~ 17475

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WE/2

 

 

 

 

ATTENTION:

SUBJECCT: mechnical Analysis of Letter and Envelope alleging _ Oswald
DB CASE F301 udev Gentrel of OL tens

REFERENCE: WE/2 Memo dated 13 December 1963

1. In response to referenced request, an original typewritten
letter and envelope addressed to the American Embassy, Stockholm,
were examined in, order to determine the origin of the letter and the
nationality of the writer.

     

2. The following conclusions were drawn concerning the letter
and envelope:

a. The typewriter in question is equipped with an obsolete
style of German-made type which, according to our references, was
fitted on a number of typewriters made in Germany during the 1920s
and early 1930s. The possible makes would be Stoewer, Torpedo,
Mercedes, Rheinmetall, Urania, Orga, Fortuna, Continental, Kappel,
Groma, Triumph, Merz and possibly some others. Of these makes,
the Torpedo, Mercedes, Rheinmetall and Triumph were probably the
most widely distributed.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

ey a

ffor FOIA Review on MAY 176 .

b.. The machine in question is equipped with a black and red

ribbon. The keyboard is very probably Swedish, as shown by two
“.t3t = ebrike-overs: umlaut-u for hyphen and "z" for "a". These
characters are adjacent on the standard Swedish keyboard, but not
on the German. The umlaut-a was not used in the street address,
"Strandvagen" (where the dots should have been placed over the
second "a"). This might be either a simple oversight or an attempt
to conceal the writer's familiarity with the correct spelling.

ry

ec. The paper of the letter is of the international standard
(DIN) size "Al" which is almost universally used in Sweden. The
linen-textured stationery seems to be rather common in Sweden.
The two smaller pieces of blank paper match the letter paper with
respect to width, thickness, color, texture and look-through, and
were probably cut from another sheet of the same type. The envelope
matches specimens of Swedish envelopes taken from DB/5-Postal
Intelligence files.

Pocewen¢ Ahambar

    

1 ENcu ROI“ ZITAT
fod-t0020-40046] os a ; .
Ce untessisie” Oa cow mia” eK geet
| fe ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET |

—

 

  
   

 
 
 

 

| SUBJECT: {Optional

 

EXTENSION: NO.
| DB Memo #6585 4

2303 | BATE, i
herpes _ 3 January 1964

a , COMMENTS (Number each comment fo show from whom
to whom, Draw a line across column after each comment.)

 

   
     
   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
     

  

y 4 ew. Me. re yo hosed “
> app Ai ina
ae Peaks ge Lek We, a fourm

CNN ia vel

   

 

 
    

ic

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

mF 1 Qlese,rrevous Spee CONFIDENTIAL =] {ATERMAL UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

iy DB Memo #6585 - Page 2

d. ‘The letter was posted from the Stockholm Ban post office,
which is located in the central railway terminal in Stockholm.
All mail deposited in street mail boxes in this area or in the post
office would be processed through this station.

e. The cancellation cachet on the envelope is identical in
all respects (format, postmark, number style and length of killer
pars) to exemplars available in our office.

f. The postage is correct for Swedish internal mail and the
postage stamp is of current issue.

g A possible irregularity is the time lag between the internal
date of the letter, the date of the postmark and the date of receipt
in the American Embassy. The total time from the internal date of
the letter to the time of receipt is eight days, the time between
the date of posting and the date of receipt is more than three days.
This transit time of more than three days for intra-city mail appears
irregular when compared with the average transit time of only two-
three days for arrival between Stockholm and the United States.

3. The text of the letter warrants some comments because a number
of peculiarities were noted - aside from pure spelling or typing errors -
which seem to indicate a Swedish writer. The following words represent
either Swedish spelling or modification: "reserv", “etablished", “murded",
“Krustjev". Other examples of Swedish grammar and syntax would be:

"must" (as past tense), “in Sowlet" (Swedish form but not spelling),
“he was spy" (without indefinite article), "FBI, USA" (without definite
article), "should" (rather than "would"), “outsmuggled" (Swedish past
participle form), and "whole the world" (pure Swedish form).

k, Another significant detail is the name given, "Ryo Liang Yuan".
"Ryo" is not a standard spelling in any known Romanization system used
for Chinese. "R" is seen in the new Chinese Communist national system,
but never in combination with “yo". "Ryo" is a Japanese spelling. In
the name given it is not known whether the Chinese or Western presen-
tation is used, in other words, whether "Ryo" or "Yuan" is meant to be
the surname. Among Chinese syllables which could be represented by the
Japanese "Ryo" are Liao, Liang and Lung. Of these Lung (1C:7893) and
Liang (TC:2733) are used as surnames. In either case, "Ryo" is hardly
@ name by which a real Chinese would identify himself.

5. In summary, and based on the above information, it is concluded
that the letter was transmitted via normal Swedish postal channels. The
letter is probably a "crank letter", most likely written by a Swede,
using a Swedish-keyboard typewriter and Swedish stationery.

e
13-00000

® . DB Memo #6585 - Page 3

6. For further information concerning the typewriter and paper
analyses, and the Swedish style of language usage, contact! |
Con x2009. For further information on the spelling of the

 

 

ostensible writer's name, you may contact on x2608.
For further information regarding the Postal aspects of this case,
please contact on x2303.

 

 

 

7. The original letter and envelope are being returned herewith.

Chief, TSD/DB

Attachment: (1)
As stated

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

fia

{Ss cory | : Neri ARaADdVAs
