 

   

s having four. neetinge with :
“the: KGB representatives, who were allegedly. from .Vienna, Austria;.
ne uring the® period 1958 to 1960." He was furnished: an. accommodatio:
So. _address wh ch he no longer ‘remembers and ‘was: given” ‘secret: writing
: materials:*" He claims to have sent only four letters to the accommo~
dations address and -he alleges’ to “have. furnished only negative
imminence reports.

  
 

    

sateen, Sst ame TES roe

 

“In May 1960 Dutkanicz informed his SIS handler that he was being
investigated for security reasons and he was advised to apply for

leave and defect with his wife and family to the USSR via Austria and

: Czechoslovakia. Dutkanicz complied with the instructions. Contact

: . with KGB representatives was established on 26 June 1960 in Bratislava,

: Czechoslovakia, a short distance from Vienna. He and his family then
drove to Lvov, USSR, with a Soviet escort. He wae subsequently
exploited by the Soviets for propaganda purposes. The actual propaganda

: material was prepared by the KGB based on details furnished by

Dutkanicz. In March 1962 the Suvieta permitted his wife to return to

i the United States, but the children were retained in the USSR. Dutkanicz

was allowed to accompany his wife to the US Embassy in Moscow for making
the necessary preparations for her return. During this period Dutkanicz
made a statement concerning his espionage activities in behalf of the
KGB. . . .

i are! a a ; ae USAREUR Conment

Ayo oo. ‘Although Dutkanica' 8 confession’ was ‘obtained under unusual ciroum-.
stances, his statements appear substantially true although obviously
‘ : incomplete. A strong possibility exists that he worked for the KGB for
| : a longer period than he admits, and it is probable that Dutkanioz pro- =
i vided the KGB with considerably more information than negative imminence
“reports. His statement that his SIS recruiters were from Vienna-is: ° _-
‘possibly correct and is supported by his alléged defection route. His |
.  gtatement that he refused payment from the SIS seems unlikely, since he"
| reportedly : ‘was spending considerable amounts of money before. his. defection. °
The. case - ie of unusual ‘significance since it constitutes: one: of the ‘most’
serious known ‘penetrations of USAREUR forces by hostile intelligence.
Also: important is the fact that Dutkanicz's ‘defection was apparently.
. inétigated. by:the Soviets for Bropaganta purposes after he Jost. acces
te sensitive Anforpation; 2

 

 
  
 
  
   

 
 
  
   
  
 

  

Addi tional reports will be rreneryd 9 as | information becomes available.

      

~ PREPARED BY ‘PRODUCTION BRANCH, “INTELLIGENCE : DIVISION, HQ: vsanUR, :

‘AP 403, Us FORCES
13-00000

28 March 1962

   

_ MEMORANDON, FOR THE RECORD

 

-. Subject: . JAGUAR Request for Questions ‘to be usedin interview with 7 a
: Mrs, Lilian SLOBODA, wife of American defector ,
Viedimir SLOBODA |

1. LOND 0883 (IN 47926) of 23 March 1962 regarding tho Subject
was discussed with Mr. James Hunt, DC/CI on 27 March 1962. He was © -
asked if the Amy had been advised of REVISION's identification
of SLOZODA as a KGB ascent (YT-1192, 16 January 1962) and if this
information should be passed to JAGUAR. Mr. Hunt said that the © ~ a
Army ‘was somewhat embarrassed about this case since SLOBODA had °.. “8
"flunked or 5 LCFLUTTER examinations" before his defection, 80 — :
the information had not been passed to the Army,.~ As noted in ¥-1192,
SLOBODA was not particularly important, according to BEVISION,
and Hunt belicved the army assumed he was an RIS agent + when he. .
; went over the hill. ; ;

  
  
  
  
     
      
   
 

5 2. Ma. Hunt saw no reason to give ‘the: information to “JAGUAR
_ but. sugrested that in our cable we say SLOBODA was presumed: RIS.

3. The Polish Desk said that BEVISION is: currently being.

- “int tenet by the Amy and they probably will ask hin mestions.
A about STOBODA.« ,

 

 

® ae tne

ms : oy Louie Lyon
Soe SR/CI/RED

    
2 October 1964

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI Liaison
FROM : SR/CI/R

[-)
SUBJECT : Questions Concerning Defectors
Joseph J. DUTKANICZ (201-289236) and
Viadimir 0. SLOBODA (201-287527)

1. DUTKANICZ's Army assignment at time of defection,

USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2 (copy attached) confirms
DUTKANICZ's assignment to the 32nd Signal Battalion in Darmstadt.
However, his wife indicated that he had CIC connections. In an interview
at the American Embassy Moscow on 5 December 1961 (cited in DBA=288,

24 January 1962), she indicated that their trip behind the Iron Curtain "had
been made possible because her husband worked for the CIC and was allowed
to do things the ordinary 'GI' could not do."* There are also penciled no-
tations in the 201 file suggesting that his Army assignment may have included
intelligence functions of some kind.

 

2. Previous KGB connection of both defectors.

Per USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2, DUTKANICZ himself
told American Embassy officials in Moscow that he had been approached by
KGB representatives in a bar near Darmstadt in 1958 and had accepted
recruitment as a result of their threats and inducements. He claimed to
have given them minimum cooperation from then until his defection, although
the Army considered it probable that he had done more than he admitted. A
further indication of his KGB involvement before defection is the fact that the
special decree granting him Soviet citizenship was enacted three months before
his arrival in the USSR; see Emb tel 851.

Document Number aqa-9 (Q

for FOIA Review on JUL 76

 

opt te tat
B~ 261-29923¢ Dol eT hes

B-20/-297527 ~~" Bees Hy

  

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

i
g-
5

. BEUEL

Sx-4617
2 Oct 6¢

SLOBODA's prior KGB involvement was confirmed by BEVISION,
as reported in YT-1192. See attached memorandum of 28 March 1962 in
regard to passage of this information to the Army. Further indications are
the facts that SLOBODA was a KGB resettlement case and that he later told
an American Embassy Moscow official that he had been blacksmailed and
framed into going to the USSR. See Moscow Emb tels A-572, 23 October 1962,
and 851, 23 March 1962.

3, Army security investigations as immediate cause of defection.

Per USAREUR Case Summary 2-62-2, DUTKANICZ told American
Embassy Moscow officials that he had informed his KGB handler that he was
under investigation for security reasons. He defected soon after, in accord
with a KGB suggestion that he do so.

SLOBODA's defection was precipitated by increased Army
security measures, according to BEVISION.

 

4

“ “yy Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/R

 

 

  

SECRET cs copy Dol. 2 F904 F
 

DUTKANTCZ, Josopf, Set. .
9. June’ 1926: | :
Gorlice, Poland

  

 

       

- Hostile ‘Service: - Soviet Intelligence Tareot: “USAREUR Forces
wie Services (SIS),
probably State

Security Service (KGB) ° ; - , . a ‘

  

Summary

Dutkanice claims ho was recruited by representatives of Scviet :
intelligence in West Germany during 1958. A combination of threata and
inducements‘ were used to gain his cooperation. He admits having had
four meetings with his Soviet handlers during a two-year period, but
claims he supplied only limited information to the KGB. There are, how-
ever, substantial indications that the compromise was greater. His
espionage activity was terminated by his defection to the USSR in June.

_1960. He was subsequently exploited for propaganda purposes by the ©
. Soviets. Details of his complicity were obtained from statements made
by Dutkanicaz to US officials in Moscow.

 

ERT and Assignnonts

 

“Duthanies* 8 principal niasion was to report changes in the’ ‘status ‘
and ‘@isposition of USARSUR forces indicating possible preparationo tor,
: hostilities. He also admits receiving detailed instructions fromthe |:
= 4). $18 which probably included additional collection BEI, but he did not ©
oa elabcrate. on these missions.

   

Recruitment and Modus Operands,

    
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
 

Dutkanicz, a “naturalized US ‘eitizen born in Poland, was. ehippoa t ‘to. 4
_Gornany in 1943 as‘a slave laborer and immigrated. to ‘the United Stat :

‘aftor World War II. Ne was ‘drafted into the US Army in 1951: and ‘was.
_sargeant in the 32nd Signal Battalion, ‘Darmatadt, at the. time o
-defection. He is a convinced liberal and has espoused ‘leftist cause

‘which led to a review. and revocation of ‘his SECRET: clearance an ani
1960. a ; : . wee, :

 
    
   
    
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
  

 

 

 

Dutkanics claims he was approached. by KGB personnel in 1958. wh
_ drinking in a bar at Crumstadt,. neuc varmstadt. In the initial: con-
versation, a combination of threats and inducements were used to obtain
“his promise of cooperation. The threats were mostly implied and:
\ directed against relatives in Poland, his immediate family in Wes _
Germany.and lutkanicz personally. Inducements consisted of promises..to
- assist relatives residing behind the Iron Surtain. . He also admite. having”
- been offered money on several occasions, but he allegedly refused to’.
accept payment for his espionage activities, Dutkanioz claine that.

 

 

 
