 

SECRET

4. It le therefore suggested that we provide your Service
with a éetalled explanation and demonstration of ita machine
collation program. Although the program ts far from perfected,
it has encountered and surmounted a verlety ef problems. Your
Services is of course welcome to share in our experience, which
it appearea would be of help at this point in yeur development of
a machine collation system.

(Signed) Rickard Helms
Richard Heime
Deputy Director for Plans

GSCI“3/781, 877
Attachment - a/s
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee’
1 - DDP
_1 - C/DDP/SG
i - RID
“4 - CI/LIA
1 - CLI/R&A
1 - CI/R&A

Originated by: CI/R& pm 28 April 1964

“Ye,
104-10310-10008 ol

Sy eng lonsaad

Le eth a

 

 

29 APR 1964
1 , MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief
| ; Unlted States Secret Service
SUBJECT: | : Information Collation by Computer
REFERENCE: CSCI-3/779, 271, Dated 24 December

1963, Same Subject

l. Referent memorandum furnished you with information
on a computer syatem developed by this Agency and IBM to
permit sterage and collation of counterintelligance information.
The memorandum also offered briefings and demonstrations, ac
well as the actual machine programs written te date, if you so
desired.

2. More recently, we have been approached by IBM with
a request for release to your Service ef blegraphic sketches on
certain IBM empleyees who have worked on the development of
our computer system, These sketches, which have been classi-
fled te protect information on cur service, ave attached.

3. On 16 April 1964, 9 briefing was given the President's
Comambasion ea. the Assassination ef President Kennedy,
deseribing our vecerds procedures; The Commission was
partiowlarly interested in machine processing ef data, and ia
possible relationships between your Service and ours.. It certainly
would seem wise, im our oplaicn, that any machine systems
daveleped by the two agencies ghould be compatibia, to permit
machine qieries and possibly exuhange of data ‘im maine Insareage:

 

 

SECRET
