 

 

 

 

“Hotel Connerci o--where he was registered under. alias. Exhaustive and

~ — SECRET _

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of. residence was” a. °

 

smal] commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"-—the

  

detailed interviews and interrogation by ‘the Nexican authorities: and:
the’ FBI, after the assassination, established that in » the recotTection ‘of

all hotel personnel he left early and returned Tate each day: of his stay.

. 8. Assuming, and allowing for the Fact of late arrival and early” .

departure; that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39°

hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.

Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods _
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the *
entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

agent) coverage either uni lateral or from Mexican Tiaison.

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was inno sense "under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S. , 1959 - 1962, were-known to Mexico Station files. Z
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were - .
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station ‘cabled report. of
8 October which’ had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. ‘This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on ~
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially). by true name.

SECRET
13-00000

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

SECRET

_ politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been

nurtured by. the. media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina—

"tion. ~The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to

preoecupy. "specialists" and has — become the centerpiece of another

hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "framed" by the use of a

double in his activity in Mexico City.2

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay
6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay | in

Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963. to the morning of —

2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man

, originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is. important, therefore, to

an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by

the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with

the information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico Citys together with

Headquarters action on that information.

7. From all credible evidence known to this time (none, incidentally,
added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--
about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment AY.

3
SECRET
13-00000

Oo, &Z j
ee eG pt eg
(t, phic. 0a, Mitimm ) if ‘Gewhey a

6830 bun a OcGsuw! £3 Lek TH “Atri len,

Dhan,’ Leo ret Gtsrred ew) M216 Rasro
13-00000

 

on

om,

_ SECRET

2 May 1975

SUBS ECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
- Commission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Hapry Knoche,
15 eri 1975 (Attachment A) oe

Hen

1. Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to

"reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual

‘data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is “to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

Background

2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped
photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1. The photograph

(together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly

1 See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 691.

SECRET
 

r
f

i.
4
od
1

 

 

SECRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

CIAL quaestenrt sacar Sy thank a against the Soviet and Cuban

| Embassies i in Mexico City. _

' 3. Under the -tradrdivary press of effort to develop information

-on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were

: made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of |

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day, -
assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by:
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U. S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing

investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee. Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the

evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in.
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation. that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner. )

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more ,

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET
13-00000
ob (Mey 17

yes Ocelot 63.

 
 

fOd-foutot0t40 ;

j

 

2 May 1975 00s

     
   
   

_MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

 

SUBJECT :.. Review of Agency Holdings regarding :
wt ce Photograph of Unidentified Individual ~
in’ Mexico City published by the :
Warren Commission

' REFERENCE 3: Letter dated 15 April 1975 by ;

: ce Lo Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities:
within the United States, to
Mr. E. Henry “Knoche (copy attached | to.
accompanying report) ;

a le This is further to, and. in completion of, my.
inter m memorandum ofa few weeks ago.

ol, 2. ° The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
“chronological order - together with appropriate comment
ary - of our extensive holdings on thé OSWALD case that,
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on(h;, (4) ana @5; October 1963 of an
.. Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina
’ tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the ©
_ Stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
“ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped versior. of one of the photographs: of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of.
' -evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 NoVember 1963 by an.
- FBI representative in Dallas. Tne successive vicissi-
a tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre |
- . + Xight down to the present moment are detailed in the

“narrative.

 

* . SECRET
etre et BY SSS

 

 

  
 

 

 
 

 

 

   
 

‘by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article, ~- .
‘which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa- (2.9 +,
‘rate memorandum. to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as NEN ot

 

_to facilitate reference-to individual items. [NB: There
-is_only one copy of this collection; this is it.T "

SECRET a i ,

“3. The attached report is not intended to be an.

answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin ©

attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-

a memorandum if that is ¢ desired. ) ; ; Co, pee
. Tee" : 7 ; wer? es

4. “The point of the referenced ‘memorandum is that: wiG Oot

_ considération should be given now to "whether or not the __ tae

entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This. gle}r

submission is designed to make it possible for you, the

IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been: ;
put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However. its contents qo
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far

‘in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must

be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's |

question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed ‘up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It

seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up.
the narrative. The documentation has not been: keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in-the matter, and there is an overall index

5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken’ in.
Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the
Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in.
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact
that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis ~
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to.
OSWALD and the assassination.

 

\ .
6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-~
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are?—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
‘ SECRET
 

 

 

 

SECRET elem

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by —
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published

' dn the Warren Commission report.’ (It is these two that

he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.) : .

7. %It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what, could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding

’ that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from the

  
  
 

fact that the operation which produced the photographs
was jointly rin with Mexican Tiaison and as a consequence
publication at this time would create additional problems
at that level Gn México. Also, it should be noted that

 

 

   

   

in Dallas laterally from the Field.
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

Raymond G. Rocca
Attachments:

as stated

SECRET
