13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

._ | advised Mr. Krislov that { would be his point of contact for CIA issues.

Finally, | advised Mr. Krislov that the DCI had received the first notification from the Board,
but | did not currently know whether he would wish to appeal any of the determinations. | did
state that there was some concern over the Board's decision to release the names of some Agency
employees who had retired under. cover.

ce i

 

 

 

 

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
 

104-10334-10073 . *.
“3 . ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger

NOTE FOR: John A. Rizzo

uglas F. Garthoff
Becky L. Rant
L. Kay Oliver @ DA
J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
William H. McNair @ DO

 

Mark Mansfie

 

David P. Holmes
FROM: Robert J. Eatinger
DATE: - 06/22/95 10:23:44 AM
SUBJECT: JFK Act Review - Procedures for Appealing to President

1 spoke today with Marvin Krislov of the White House Counsel's Office. They have set up the
following procedures for agency heads to appeal to the President the determinations of the JFK.
Assassination Records Review Board.

Within 7 days of receiving the notification letter from the Board; if the agency head wishes to
appeal, he or his GC should send a letter to White House Counsel, attention Marvin Krislov,
detailing the specific determinations that it wishes to appeal to the President. The letter should
explain why the Board's decision should be reversed under the standards of the JFK Act. White
House Counsel will make recommendations to the President within 3 weeks in order to meet the
30-day period. If necessary, White House Counsel will call for a meeting or other discussions |
to flush out the issue.

Mr. Krislov advised me that the White House Counsel will be predisposed to ‘disclosure, so the
agency heads should very carefully pick their disputes. Mr. Krisiov encouraged the Agency to
work out issues to the extent possible with the Board.

Mr. Krislov also added that if we know a particular issue will be appealed, that we may not want

to wait for the formal notification letter from the Board to make Counsel's office aware of the
issue and to brief our concerns.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
