 

 

ce aman th ene ee nese = reanetpeemnens AR BER At

ane ee cern ree ec ne ee oe ed pam oe eee oe

SN oe pagel alunie Ui rate aly oo tat ca eerie aed ends btn hy CR EA cE, F

,GONZRLAZ Gonzalez, Beinol Pago 4
aS .
. CONFIDENTIAL
group, On his return to Cuba, Alfredo claimed to be appointed
by Washington as overall resistance chief for all of Cuba. ,

€ubject and Pujol refused to cooperate with hin.

Arrest, Investication: x
On 30 Sep 61, an MRP marber naned Dalia JORGE was arrested

putting a bomh in the Habana Sears store. Ten days later, on

12 Oct 61, Subject was arrested. Subjact believes she may

have been a G-2 penetration, or she may just have been recruited
by them. Everybody she knew was arrested, the ones she didn't
know were not. At a G-2 confrontation, she identified Subject
by true name and personal data, along with other MRP members.

After a trial, she was freed and married a G-2 officer, name

aie They were later divorced and she married Carlos

2th NGGRS
‘RUBIERA, nephew of vicente RURIERPA, a former leader of the

Cuban Telephone Workers’ Union, now in Miami as AFL/GIQ xrep-
resentative. Other MRP members arrested yere Fernando ’
Hector @ LOPEZ’ (now in Siami), Raul FERNANDEZ’ Rivero {now
in Caracas), and Robefto JIMENEZ. 040
Then G-2 officer (now Poreian Minister) Isidoro MALMIURCA,
assisted by @ Lieutenant "Alfonso", who did moat of the
questioning, interrogated Subject and the MRP group. They
were the only ones to work on Subject, but used many sessions
and long hours. They said Fidel Castro wanted to talk to
Subject. Fidel never came, but Raniro Valdez did. Subject
agreed to make a TV interview (7 Nov 61) in return for the
lives of the people in his groun, , a

CONFIDENTIAL

 

  

 

!
|

|
|

pment z

 
74-0000

 

pean

 

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinoli

- + CONFIDENTIAL

Prison, Intellicence, Information:

 

In late 1969, a committee of prisoners at Guanajay, con
Ke of § ue Rar cae ute Sexnanéed, Antonio
®St0, ied ome Arnengol, met with a representative of

the Ministry of the Interior, Lieutenant Mariano Rodriguez and
the Guanajay Director, Lieutenant Cosne. The purpose was to
work out a work-rehabilitation plan without political indoc-
trination, ‘They had three forral and several inforral
meetings while visiting proposed work sites for schools,

pig farms, ete. The Procressive Plan from the Ministry of
the Interior cane in February 1979 as a result of these dis-
cussions. The plan was essentially that proposed by the
prisoners, but the GOC added a provisn to “attend discussions

of political matters.” About 100 orisoners agreed, others

refused, The Ministry people explained it would consist only ~~~ .

of listening to GOC officials reading Marxist pamphlets. ‘The
prisoners still refused. The Ministry finally struck that
point and published the plan, without reference to political
matters, ‘The work-rehabilitation program then began about
late 1970 or early 1971.

In 1970, a Soviet General, advisor to the Ministry of
the Interior, made an inspection of Guanajay, with 8 or 10

_ other Soviets. Their escort was a latLt, now a Major (name

unknown), -fres thd Ministry. ‘The prisoners nade a big racket

in the messhall, bancing plates, etc.

CONFIDENTIAL

  
  
 

 

 

CONFIDENTIAL

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinol Paqe 3
ness in Milani and the internal expelled him, recognizing as
their representatives Sonnet el in e and Antonio
FERNANDES Nuevo, JoSe PRINZE, and GustdvoGODOY. Subje
tried to stay out of internal fights and continued working
directly with "Pepe". In March 1961, Cisneros went to Miam{
in an effort to get more arms for the SRP, and never came back,
Subject was named internal coordinator until his arrest in
October 1961,

In late 1960, there was a series of meetings designed to
unify the opposition to Castro. Subject met at ona time or

another aL, following people:
Albe Msn of the Rescate Organization (dicd of cancer)
avid Riof the 39 Nov Movement
envi
Oc io BARROSO Gomez, the only credible leader of the

small UR group. He was shot after being arrested and
torpedfred.

Ri in EBON os the RR

avert Gian of the DRE

Subject proposed to dissolve all existing organizations
and form one new one to lead the ficht. No agreement was
ever reached, not even for unified military action or unified
political action. The MRR/MRE had the most numbers and refused
t cooperate, saying they had all they needed and could do
the job themselyes. Their snokesman from Miami was a DRE
member, Julio Series neil, :

_ After the invasion, Pujol sent Alfredo IZAGUIRNEL who had

worked for hin, to the U.S. In the U.S., Alfredo did not
represent Pujol, but claineé himself to be chief of the MRP/UR

»., CONFIDENTIAL

 

 

 

 

“em venaipiemesnttitinies — adeginitateersedabeed!, + mmmaitiliineieninieirhe — statndinAtatnltttminee
: ote : a

   

* gerne ene enannsns meee 9 emeR RAS ED ETRE 0 we Hh ANE RI etante tert steno e © sess tte ere
ot ae

 
 

re

 

CONFIDENTIAL,

CONFIDENTIAL

GONZALEZ Gonzalez, Reinoi . bage Zz
Castro activities by Jan/Feb 69. Subject dealt with "Pepe” ‘on
behalf of the ADR. The ADR was absorbed into the IRP when it
was organized in Octoher 1969, ‘The MRP leaders were all former
GOC officials who had broken with Castro. Subject was ;
Coordinator of Labor Activities for the MRP.

In September 1969, Subject decided to go to Miami to
confer with 2 Aor ween, the external representative
of the MRR. He told "Pape", who arranged a visa for Subject

-in four hours. In Miani, Subject met at the PanAmerican Rotel

with “Mr. Jim Smith" (actually Jim Brown, a Miami Case Officer)
in a private meeting. Subject told *Smith" money was not
needed in Cuba; they needed arms and materials. Subject told

- nobody he was going to Miami, He went first to Puerto Rico

to a lahor meeting for cover, then to Miami, Back in Cuba,
Subject arranced three supply drops through “Pepe” in Dec 60/
Jan 61. Two fell into Security hands, and one went to a MRP.
group in the Escambray. "Pepe* lived in Miranar and staved in
Cuba until about Dec 61. Subject was in touch with bin until
Subject’s arrest in Oct 61, Subiect also knew Jose PUIOL
Mederos (possibly PRJALS) as an aqent trained by the Agency
in the U.S., who worked with the RP and the small UR group.

In late 19€0, an internal fight broke out in the MRP. f
The MRP had been sending 0S$30,909 per month from pesos collected
and changed in Cuba on the black market to Miami to pay for
arms. The MRP people in Miani kept the no ey ork & the 98 Tamieee
supplied the arms. Subject had put “anuel ‘RAY, iD cader;
on a boat at Varadero to Miami, Subject was thenyhandline
inf1l/exfil and supply drops. Ray left nog nile!
internal MRP coordinator. Ray failed to straighten out the

RUN TEM A, ne ag ENS a deta

 

 

 
 

meee eee ee

enero ty Aennennesttengy rman ot

wee

CONFIDENTIAL

‘Carlos nar G RIGUEZ, WHO RElayed the word to CASTRO and
the latter went to see GARCIA at his hotel room, He told
GAPCIA that he was sorry that he had not been able to release
Subject when promised but that there were many in the top -
echelon of govt that mere opposed to his release and that it
took him some time tobring them around, However, he called
or spoke to ABRANTES, who was with him at that time, and told
him to find Subject and have him brought to G-2 offices the
next morning at 1000 hours. That was done and in fact a Ua2
colonel drove Subject to the airport, obtained his passport,
etc, and he set off at 1700 hours on 12 December in the

game plane with GARCIA. The operons 1 who drove him to

the aixport was-Colonel Manuel “ALANCO » who was generally.
referred to a Mao, Several of our other subjects had contact
with this guy and most found him reasonable, intelligent and
very nilitary.

12. GONZALES, who spoke only in Spanish, although understands
some English and undoubtedly speaks some, is a member of the
committee which helped to negotiate the release of political
iprigoners with CASTRO, and he will continue to do all in his
power, he says, to accom plish that objective, He has been

to Jamadea once to neggtiate sith Cuban authorities, and once _
“to Havana. My team member will cover those activities in his
reporte

12, Subject is working for himself and has been for sometimes

he is in the used clothes business, and excects to rent a place
for his business on 8th Street, SW, in the 5690 block, I
believe, at an early date, He expects to cater pretty much

to Latin Americans traveling to the US, hopefully mostly
Veneaselans and Brazilians for they are the ones with the

most spending money, He's already sold to many of them, has

& good many friends and contacts in Venezuela, and believes
‘that he'll get a lot of business from Latin America. He has

a friend who is prepared to make a $10,000 loan, and @ bank

has agreed to finance him to the tune of $20,000 and it'll

take about $30,000 to s#eck his business adquately. He can

and will get short term credit from some of his suppliers but
will probably be limited to 60 to 90 days, He's very optixistic
about the future, appears in good health, although somewhat over
weight, and his wife works, The gorks in the office for a Puerto
ican vacking company.

13, Suv§ect w as most appreciative for the offer of a physical
:examination, and he knows that he has no @uney on escrow with
the Agency. Nevertheless, he probably is expecting some finaancial*
Compensation for his time in orison, although this was never
mentioned svecifically, Tidbits of info provided by him on people
on the long list, as well as on others and other subjects will
be or has been included in other reports.

- CunriweNTIAL

 

 

 

| ,
 

 

 

* CONFIDENTIAL
Written by Carl Jenkins on basis of interviews done:
Debriefing Raportt 17 & 2h May 1979 .

Subject: Reinol GONZALEZ Gonzalez (‘far Nare: "Antonio®)
DPOS: 24 Apr 32, Mancuito, “atanzas, Cuba

   

Biographical Nata, Nistorica) tnfornations

Address (25 May 79): 7642 §.U, %6th Court, Hiami,
Plorida 33173 (Tel: 295/596-4097)

 

Parents: Basilio GONZELZ2 Parez and
Prudencla GoUuTALE? Pena (Both deceased when
Subject was an infant. He was reared as an
orphan, prirarlly by the Catholic Church.)

 

Siblings: None

Vv Wife: Teresita ALVARED Fernandez, 20 Aug 34, Saqua La
Grande, Las Villas, Cuba

Children: Twins: Reinol A. CONZALEZ Alvarez, and
Cecilia Maria GONZALEZ Alvarez (born
20 Oct 61, Miari, Florida. Both
completing 12th graée 1979.)

Contact information on wife, Teresita: Secretary for
Savoy Packing Co. Sales 9*ffice, 444 frickell Avenue,
Milani, Florida, (Tel: 295/374-7079)

In 1959, Subject was a labor union leader in the bank
workers’ section of the Union of Christian Yorkers (UTC), In
November 1959, Conmunists took control of the Cuban Labor
Confederation (CTC). Subject opposed that move and was one of
the founders of the Accion Democratica Revolucionagia (ADR),

a Catholic anti-c, ‘o group, alone with An: o FERNANDES

ae . . fa
Nuevo} JE !En res vainEsPnio, oul Antonio BASTARRICA, and
ore Ari Yfo ‘PIALLO. Subject ffest nade contact with the Agency

. eb /FTFSS
in 1959 through Rev. Enrique “OSLE, who introduced Subject to
. Bet. 2st pf
/Professor Fi O'MAILIA ("Pepe") of Villanueva University,

PROTON EA: SUPPER LOIN BRINN Root Aa eR SENET Neate at suineeentee i wrens me tenes pee me sani gems

 

an Agency representative. "Pepe" offered economic help and

  

arms for the anti-Castro labor movement. The ADR began anti-

CONFIDENTIAL au-o7yv

 

 
74-0000

  

CONFIDENTIAL

; odo ——, ;

imposition of CASTRO's slate took place at a crc congress in Nov
1960, He claims that he has never seen ALVAREZ since the business
of turning over his files to ALVAREZ was done in 1960, He knows
of course that ALVAREZ went on to other jobs, eventually to the
Cuban Embassy in Madrid, and eventually defected to the US. He.
‘claims to have no use for ALVAREZ, he's a dedicated Commle and he

oh = 6

“wouldn’t trust ‘ims got fll
a

  
 
 

BOT ANGE _ Ame

4,]Dz, 21éna’Mederos - is the aunt -of “PUJAL Mederos. She is
currently working with the Human Kights Commission in Washington,
DC. Subject says that some 39 years ago when he knew her pretty
well she was democratic or leftist in her politics but very lefte
ist in her economics . He described her as a revolutiénary ofa jj

Cc -
sort, with lots of prestige in uba in those Says , 2h 00852

 

5, So far as he’s awa re there was only one Octavio BARROSO 89
the one you're talking about is the same one known to him, the
game one shot in late 1961 or early 1962, he's not certain exactly
when. He claims that PUJAL and BARROSO were captured at the same ;
that it sight have been

hm a?

time or at about the same tine,
PUJAL who reported to G-2 on ‘but in any case he(>ubject) didn't
do it. There were others in jail at that time, also, he says, who
could have told G-2 about BARROSO's revolutionary activities. As
stated, that question, as did the one on the TV program, visibly

B
t
}
Then, when CASTRO came along he propelled ALVAREZ to the post in
the CTC to which Subject had democratically been chosene The
rupset him so I'm not at all sure that we got the trutbe

1961 a woman belonging to his unit, Dalt RGE, was arrested, '
allegedly placing a bomb in a company there in Havana called ClAe;
Subject was carrying documentation in alias but almost immediately
he was confronted with Dalia who identified him to G2, But, the |
most irportant evddence is the fact that over the next few days | 7
and weeks those known to Dalia in that organization were arrested;
those mot known to her were not, Although alledgedly arrested ;
planting a bomb, she was almost: immediately released and was eoon
walking the street. A few months later Dalig. had married a lieutenant
;in Ge2,. She later divorced the lteutenangef whose name Subject cquid
not ¢ p with) and then married Caio: RUBIERA, a nephew of

i Vice BIERA-who lives in Miami , “lorida and works for the

C106 Solel OFS

 

7, The TV program = why? It was the first such appearance by anyo:
arrested that could be called in favor of CASTRO.

The MRP had a pact amongst themselves, he claims, which stated

© This, ds, Feyste,ggom ALVAREZ de la Campa y Sotolongo who defected U.
CU mow Hiab

6, Subject was arrested on 11 October 1961 in a raid oa the
Cesar Odio Farm, along with a number of xr people. On 30 Septmber

* ee

    
 

iS

‘[rod-t027-0082]. «=> : ”

   

Memo for the Record

TO : Mr. William Sturbitts

role gle |
2 ser
SUBJECT: Reitfol GONZALEZ Vonzales Feouments on Interview

in May 1979 in Miami. f

 

j
{
| eft Neu Lg This Subject was interviewed on the occasionof both our
visits to Miami and we spent at least some 6 hours with him and
still haven't finished, He told us on the occasion of the last
visit that he still wants to tell us about some things going
son in the Cuban exile commuinisty in Miami, that some Cubans are
. -buying arms and planning actions against CASTRO, ete. He wants to
tell us, he said, thal :we'll know and won't be surprised but he
denies all part for himself in any such illegal actions, He does
not believe it possible, given internal and external conditions
now prevailing, to overthrow CASTRO anytime soon but says if it
were possible, he would be the first to start preparations for
that purpose. When we next go to Miami we will listen to what
additional he has to saye

2. Subject was for the writer the most interesting and perhaps
the most oroductive of the peonle we were assigned to interview,
This guy is cut from a different mold from the other 7, He is

gtough, intelligent, cunning, shrewd , lacking in formal education,
but a real toughin-fighter who knows what he wants and knows how

i to go about it. He is, too, I think, a real opportunist, and this

Wn - may explain in part his reason for putting on the 6 Nov 61 TV-
‘SLSTIPEND program, I had the fe@ling repeatedly that he was not really
iproject. coming clean,on many of our questions, but the only two questions

| xecuted by to which hpyreacted noticeably were the ones about the TV program
'GOC. Files and Octavio BARR0S0, These two visibly upset him eventho I feel
Vindicate he knew or thought they would be thrown at him and hehad his
Reinol knew answers Rrepareds More about the TV program and BARYOSO laters

BARROSO. Rafe IG 5 Be
an 3. This man started out as the Secretary-qgeseral of the Union
o of Christain Workers (UTC), at one point belonged to the ARD( an

t+ o\ association of young democratic people), the MRP for a while,etc.
5, 2o 2 In 1959 he was named foreign relations secretary of the Confederation
5 a of Cuban Workers (CTC),however, at the election of officers in late
ir 3 1959 CASTRO showed up and imposed his slate, a Communist slate for
am the most part on the congress. Subject was required to turn over

8,
¢ wi TITTIES
iN SA (== 7) conripentiat

 
  
 

- rt
eT

 

9

 

KAAS OS)

MS

 
 

een ra
t

 

o3Ze

CONFIDENTIAL

ad Ae ENTE

a ee

 

that anyone captured would not talk for 72 hours, to give those
still free time to change hidding places, etc, then one would be
permitted, if forced to, to tell minor things, things it was
thought the Ge2 might already know. .

He was taken to a place referred to as POINT X and stripped
naked. He was interrogated almost continuously, lights were kept
on and all sorts of threats were made against him, He could hear
in the building the wie es of others ipyam to him in the MRP,
among ibéers Fernandd Rojas, Fernan: ivera (pow in Caracas)» -
Robext¢' Vimenez., “is interrogators were Isidare HIERCA, throw tee L476 g/

* Winister of Foreign Relations, but then just a secretary to the -
nistry of Interior, MALMIERCA was assisted at times by Lt.
ALFONSO (fnu), apparently an assistant to MALMIERCA, who was much
gore intelligent and much better trained than MALMIERCA. The
latter did a poor job and got little out of Subject but ALFONSO
did a much better job «

 

 
 

et wae eens eee core renee a eee oe ene

‘After several days he was told that CASTRO himself would visit

thim and. personally conduct the interrogatién. He claims that he

told MALMIERCA that that would do no good for it was CASTRO himself

he helped to teach Subject many years before how to fight the

Commies and prevent their penetration into the labo mente

As @ result, he says, CASTRO did not come but: Ramid? JALDEZ Uid,:
VALDEZ told him that the decision had already been made not

to shoot him ( Subject) but that some or most of the military

section people of his organization (MRP) in jail wouldhave to

pay with their lives for what they, Subject and others of the

MRP had done. The only way he could save them, VALDEZ said, would

be to go on TV and tell the nation what his organization had been

doing, tell them how useless resistance to CASTXO was, and at the

same time condem the US for its complicity in anti-CASTKO efforts, :

i

|

i

{

| Now, Subject claims that some of this fitted after a fashicn into
his own thinking and size up of the saate of things, He claias that
1) he had decided some time earlier that internat resistance of the
sort the MRP was dorducting was useless, and 2) that it would be
better to leave the country and fight from abroad, and 3) that he
had proposed just such a aove at a large meeting of MRP leaders
held just a few days before his capture. However, the student and
workers’ representatives at that meeting did not support such a
move So no action was taken, then came his own arrests

An attemot was to have been made on CASTRO's life, using a
bazooka from a room overlooking a public plaga where CASTRO was
to appear on 4 October 1961, and VALDEZ had found out about thase
plans, through Dalia, %ubject assumes. Anyway, Subject clains
that three people were to have gone up to the room, which had been
preperly prepared and an escape route worksd<out , just prior to
the ceremony, Of the three, one guy, Antonis VALADE) ciana got
fcold feet and took off for the States instead, Rad] VENTA Wel)

Mazo was there but did not fire the weapon, for some reason not
known to Subject, and the third man, whose mame he could not
. remember, aprarently did not go up to the reom either.

 
74-0000

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 

Well, believing that such resistance activities were in

fact futile and believing that CASTRO would in fact shoot

his men, and believing that he could ali alone determine i
what was to be said on TV, he decided that to accept the offer H
was the correct thing to do, He could not hawe the blood of

others on his hand, he said, untéss something very worthwhile |
was being accomplished. He professed to VALDEZ, however, that he

had no authority all by himself to sake that decision and asked :
_ to discuss it with three or four MRP leaders there in jail with :
him. VALDEZ agreed that he could discuss it withF8ernando ROJAS .
but with no one else, and that was done. ROJAS reluctantly ,
‘approved. : i

He wrote the presentation he was to give on TV and he siad
no substantive changes were made by the Cubans. He constructed
it, he saiJ, to 1) tell them as much as possible what they :
wanted tohear without doirg any real harm, 2) protect those ' :
still at large, and 3) give away as little senstitive information|
as possible. He said he yealized fully what he was doing, that
he would do it acain if caught in the same situation, and that
he takes full responsibility now as then for what he did and
said and still feels it was the only logical think he could
do, Again, this was not a subject he enjoyed discussing; he appear:
ed in fact a bit embarassed by it all, but he knew it would be
coming at some point.

i

8. Why didn't the Cubans release him after the ransom was pajd .
‘them? Because he would mot sign a@ caper in effect saying was
sorry and asking CASTRO'S forgiveness. He meet with Alo 5 JO,

and three G-2 military officers to discuss the relea se and the
conditéons of the release one day after the ransom had been paid,
and when he refused the Ge2's conditions PUJOL took a piece of

paper out and scribbled on it an agreement, which said Subject

would cbligate himself not to become involved again in antie '
CASTRO activities if released, and he agreed to sign that. In |
fact, he did sign it. PUJOL then handed it to the militar officess
but they said the Cuban Vovt could not accept it. It was after

that that the money was reutrned.

HEE did he get out when he did? Through the efforts of Gabriel

CIA Marquez} a Mexican novelist and reporter in Mexico “ity and -
.a good Briend af CASTRO and other high Cuban leaders and of Subject +
rand his wife, Subect's wife and GARCIA's wife are particularly
close, as are GARCIA'S wife and Subject's childrens 7
10, Subdject’s wife had contacted many people, promient people in
an effort to bring about Subject s release but had had no luck until.
the GARCIAts went to work“on it. In early November (he thinks) of
1977 GARCIA and wife visited Cuba and snent sometime with CASTRO.
GARCIA's wife allegedly told CASTRO that she had one important
favor to ask of him, to release a good ffrend of theirs who had by
then held for many years. CASTRO promised to do it immediately.
However, by 11 Dec 77 Subject was still not out and GARCIA, on his

a to receive some sort of litera i
Bee 2a Havana to see what he could aty previo stopped fife .

Gun yorere wernt oy

   
