 

 

Attach, to G-8190
Case #16, 416-% ‘

Age: 34 Nationality: American (former) Sex: Male

Preliminary Su rvey:

Due to the inadequacy of the submitted material, only summarizing
statements can be made.

Summarizing Statements:

The writer is a very changeable and unstable person who maniges
to appear fairly weil controlled and equilibrated on the outside. He
possesses a superior intelligence and professional training of sciextific.
nature, ona ra.her high level. He has not only absorbed, but actually
#ssimilated much of the material he has read and studied, and he mows
how to utilize it ina purposeful manner. His intellectual as well ag his
practical tendencies are pronounced and developed, but except in bis
professional work, they ‘do not always supplement each other constructively.
Either he may get too involved with the materialistic aspects of a project
without considering its more abstract and theoretical implications, or he

" may get interested in some intellectual speculations without cons:dering

their practical feasibility, thus becoming rather unrealistic in his
approach. In his work, he is well able to distinguish the essential from
the unessencial, and he is able to think clearly and ‘logi¢ally. He can
exercise analyzing and synthesizing faculties, and he is quite clever

“in putting two and two together" from the things he sees and hears. He
is alert and learns and understands quickly. He possesses considerable
mental agility which enables him to understand intellectually a variety of
problems, situations and people, without having ary personal emot::cal
relationship to them. He possesses skill in expressing himself vertally
as well as in writing. While he is not likely to say more than would se
absolutely necessary, he has a great facility in presenting the same ‘acts
in various fashions, depending on the situations he finds himself in.” He
can be very critical and dissecting in his approach. He has mental :=de-
pendence, and he can work out the blueprint for a plan or a project. He

"has some administrative capabilities, and he is able to manipulate numbers

on a more complex and abstract level. He has understanding for ms:hanical
and technical functioning. While he makes efforts at being econom:czi, he
may not always get along with the money and material at his disposal. He
evidently takes his specialized work seriously, and he is fairly accurate

SECRET quam at

 

 
 

104-102-0076

 

Yey

G-8:90 -
18 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, DD/P/SR_

       

ATTENTION + SR/G/Mr. ALT. Stewart
SUBJECT : Graphological Analysis (16, 416-39
REFERENCE. ; ‘Reguast Memo No. SR/6-62-16

  

PBL Fah . "S
__ 1. In response to refer bject material (handwriting ~
in an *pproximately §" x 8" req and black notebook, titled "RECORD"
Was submitted to a Sraphological analysis, Graphological Yeports for-
warded by TSD are produced by a trained analyst available ©n & contract

  
   

was made at 0910, 1
for review of customer,

  
  

 

 

« MARZEN ..:
Chief, TSD/GARB 4

Distribution:

Orig & Vaddresse a = :

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
‘Do Not Reproduce

 
 

- “SECRET

—~F 28120,

 

#16416-x ee -2- .

anid conscientious in the execution of his tasks. When occasional
inaccuracies occur, he is quite adroit in covering them up. The level
of his performance may not always be quite even and uniform, depend-
iflg on his emotional fluctuations and moods. However, he is rather
ambitious and likes to make a good showing. When he is interested in

a job, he can concentrate well on it. He likes unusual and challeng-

ing tasks, but he may get bored and distracted when he has to deal with
routine assignments. He has a fairly good memory for stuided material,
while he may be somewhat forgetful in everyday life.

In emotional respects, the writer does not have one unified personality,
“but various personalities which are not properly integrated and connected.
His external sophistication covers up a considerable emotional unformed-
ness and immaturity, which is bound to come to the surface in closer per-
sonal cuntact with him. He can acta variety of roles, some of them in
a very convincing manner, in a perfectly detached and rationalized fashion,
He is highly ego-centered, and his feelings and emotions are strongly
repressed, but they may find expression in rather unadjusted ways. He
is quite dissociated from his environment, and there is hardly any
emctional participation in anything he does, He represses a considerable
number of inferiority and anxiety feelings which he tries to overcompen-
sate by a self-assured and at times even courageous appearance. He is
suffering from a number of inner tensions and cenflicts which he tries to
push aside and suppress. He is uneasy and restless, and he tr.es to run
away from everything and everybody, including himself, He is dissatis-
fied and at times even disgruntled, and he tries to find the cause for his
unpleasant moods rather 1n his envirenment, instead of within himself.
He is irritable and excitable and quite erratic and unpredictable, In pro-
fessional situations, he seems to be able to check himself, but even there he
may not always be easy to handle. He may get angry suddenly and give up
what he is doing. He can establish only superficial rationalized contacts
with others, and he lacks the capacity for establishing emotional personal
interrelationships, He is a person without roots and substance who lacks
instinctive understanding for social demands. He is intelligent enough to
cover up his emotional deficiencies of almost psychopathic character in
general, and many people who are dealing with him may not even suspect
his underlying disturbance. As a result, they may be quite surprised when
they are confronted hy some strange and peculiar actions or reactions of
his which may defy a rationat explanation. There is a lot of aggression
within him which he tries to control, but which may find occasional and
somewhat distored outlets. He is most secretive about his affairs, and he
ig not likely to confide in anybody completely. Actually, he is rather

 

 
 

$16416-% : : -i- . G-8190
: ;

suspicious, and his self-defensive and sel{-protective mechanisms come
quickly into play as soon as he senses the slightest possible danger to his
vulnerable self, This does not prevent him from putting on a daring

air when he considers it fit for the occasion. His fundamental problem

is that he hae not established a firm identification with a sound sociological
and ideological pattern. He is impressionable and has a etrong capacity
for identification and he seems to try out a variety of patterns as his
frame of reference, the way other people try on new cloths. There may
have been considerable instability in his childhood environment which -
caused this morally driftless development. Rationally, he evidently haz
learned fundamental ethical Principles which he tries to follow supér-
ficially for appearance sake, In reality, he has an unusually great number
.of camouflaging capacities which have practically become ‘second nature
tohim. He himself may frequently not realize if he is lying or telling
the-truth, This is also part of his emotional disturbance. While he may
be involved in undertakings which border on the criminal, his perscnality
constellation has more of a pathclogical than a criminal character, His
tensiveness and complexity absorSs a great amount of his ample psycho-
physical resources. However, he has sufficient strength and energy at
present (the time when this book was written) to support his genera] fune-
tioning adequately. On the surface, he may convey a controlled and com- '
posed impression which may deceive over his fundamental imbalance

and unreliability. ., oo

Summary:
The writer has well developed intellectual and practical capabilities
which should make him a competent worker in his specialized professional
field. At the same time, he is suffering from a basic emotional distur-
bance (of paranoid-schizoid character) which is superficially controlled,
but which undermines his ethical integrity, prevents a satisfactory social
_ adjustment and possibly intermittently affects his professional performance, . i

Qualification: ae . ; :
ere . a

This report must be evaluated as qualified information, because the -
handwriting standards submitted for analysis are not adequate. :

  
