74-0000

    

 

at Pa Ain ee - 7] EMGP A Ty oe Loerie, APL Asusenne ve

* CONTINUATION OF : ; : " .

+ yISPATCH 4 rer “J
oe : : 8 'z c RB z ay} HOGY..6035 .- vo.

“Ul. For Uoxieo City: hoy inforzation the Otation nay have or bo.
able to dovolop concorh tg. LECLOY's contucts, ofthor vith Custcmalans .
in-Eouico or with Loxicano working with Guatordlans (ouch to *
GANDEHAS), vould te greatly eppreciatod. ‘ale

: 33." For Ga male City: Of prinnry tenortenes “4p tho nead to
"locate Ricards LULA Adina end orioe LED, Althouch it in
-. geknowlodgod that thore aro probably other Cuatenslenag tho havo boon
_ traincd.by tho Cubsno in radio covnunications, HIMANDA nor LULUZ
aro tho only tvo to know. of by neno. -An inportrat point in pursuing |
‘the ZESHEICK angle is to beer fin nind that noithor HINANDA nor LEIS
wea. trainod to tronomi{t mosantcs -- only to receive then. ‘ho
2RLZLCH traffic has indicated that ono link io probsbly boing boarad
to Guntenala City or sone pleco vory elo:o to the City. When - -
ESGANDIN/22 wou boing hold ecptivo by the FAR in Gon Rairunde, he
elains ho heard what sounded like Lorco fron rn adjrcont roan orch
- afternoon. Furthornore, he iccntifiod tho cound 29 probably tho
rocoption rathor than tho trencnicnoion of Vorcd, Accepting for tho
mozont thet this wes Horce (reception) thot he heard, Lordyucrtors
Wwichse tho Station te quory LICANDIU/ae furthor on this point:
nerply, how frequently did ho-heer this; wore there many
procent at tho tico; did ha evor cco ny of nie, ereptors wis
- deca ho recognize a phote of Ricardo EXWADA? clay docu! the
Btation is requonted to exening whatovor capture PG? docunonts it
> etill poarenson: foriaddi tions) 2! :

 
   
 

     

    
   
   
 

,
. -

           

   
   
   
 
       
 
    
 
   
   
 
        
           
       
 

  

bes]
q;

       
 
     
      

SOICE elucs .

   

 

. In ‘one soction of his report MIRANDA estates that ninco ~
they did not have tins to bo instruetod in tho troncaiceion of
mocnaven, it ves docidod that from tho noxt group of troinces to
“(0 to Cuba would be solegted porsons who would bo-trained in the
. treneaission uo voll ao the reception of coceengss. Loncquartets
doen not have recdily available a lint of Gustconluns who trnvallod
to Cuba in Heverbor, Dacenber 1962 ond Junuary 1653 for cuerrilln
training. Travel lista sre being cecnnod in on attenpt to pinpoint
theco traincon on tho bnein of lcngth.of stey in Cuba. In tho +
meantino the Stetion is requested to chock its files for a possible
liot of trainoca who travolied during this poriod.

    
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
    

13. Hondquerters hag pesrched itn inforration on Eornerdo LYWUS
Mondoza. for soze indication of his contact with LLONOV in Lcxico City
but to.no avail. The Station is requested to do the snro nnd also , °
- provide infornation concerning the current whereabouts ond : .

activities of this LESUS.. ..- _ °

cae oa o
ely .

    
  

        
     
    
 
 

+t, Bladne S$. LATTURITR

 

“ Attschnent: ,HERETITIE |”
As stated above .

 
     
   
 

" Dintribution: 3 : ~
2-Gustennia City w/att. 9 /
2-JLTAVE w/att, .

2-Moxico City w/att. ee
2-Togucignipa w/att. -

- 2-Ban Salvador e/att.

 
   
   
   
   
 

 

   

 
  
  

 

< . O . cy
“CONTINUATION OF “gam NBN
+. DISPATCH r oh

According to LILO a report of hie coavereation "pith ci
thio Sovict frignd told C/NITIA3 that tho Soviets have a corious-
agroccent with Caba rnd for th & rerncon thoy wore very nuch e
intorcsted in thy Cunterslan citustion cinco ft veo a direct
and oirple ‘way of holping Cuban. Tho ovict vantod to knov tho -
origin of the ronoy ucod to purcheco the eres. Eo also ecked |
CARDENAS for a rcport of tho procont and futuro situation in
Guntenala which C/ » in.turn, asked LINLUCK to _prop=re for
wbin. LINLoce explain that tho PG? undoubtodly had a dircet .
ebsnvol throuch which the Sovicts had becom prscod this informations
et ae ho vould ai perniuotoy to supply tho roport requonted by
NDLUAS. \

Lees. BND Rh

BGGY.4035

 

   

HAS,

 

 

  

* As an edded noto, LZONOY fulfilled a vory irportent -
* role daving his Apridfiay 1953 ctey in- tho UlSN. Es acted ts
~porconal interproter ‘to Pidel C/S1c9 Ruz during tho latter's trip -
to the Covict Union mud in ncerly 211 photos taken of the Cuban
loacor during” hin ctry, LEONOV io tho porgon closost to hin,

 

. LN os eek +f
Idontifiention of Birnificant Porcona 2-4. rn a
em . rs re
‘ ‘8. Psadquartors bea beon rblo to identify vith rorconshlo

cortninty tho folloving percons tho are. rontiongd in HINMAMDAts

»sfoport. - Dates of trivol frou Konico tu Cubs were avnilablo on-
wll iccntified pereons. -Eovaver, it has not yot boon posoibic to
encoves datoa of éeperture fron Cuba for tvo individuals -- Mar
Li0D end Iedolfo: PAYEDES Golrres.. In tha eccoc of Ricardo ILt.
end Cuillervo PAZ, the dates of rrrivale in Cuba indiccte this
-puir poccibly took n aido trip. Furthor choeka org! boing mado at
Eoccquartors to £411 in thoso-grps.

 

 

: “A, Jovo Hanv v Form Ayany (201-£9276): eka bray rans.
, Guatensilen Colsiniet Verty Yendsr cud baa boon living dn oxilo-in
Cuba for covers) yoorc. ;

  

 

 

 

 

¢. DBD. Ricrrdg’ A Aldena (201~-707303}: rka Estebon +
ROLLED Mstrada, & 2. Travellod Noxico-Cuba, 2
Februsty 1832; Cubaloxico "22 Oc obor 1852, Gantonslen Pessport

_ #60220. _~
. De rio”
in tho roport aek
LEZUS Chov,
Cuba.on 2 February 1952. Guatenaln City Station reporting (sco Pore
4 wbovo) bas chovn ono Eavio Francisco/L©-U3 Chevarria to bo -
involved in guorrilla ectivitios in, Guotonale. . “+

i¥
we
£ D. Sufi’ Cor arbiencias Hayera “(201- 803518): *aka Guido
GANDATA. Plight paniicats show hoe travelled Ko 2xico-Cubk 2 February

-1982, _ Cuba-Koxiceo, 2 Novenbor, 1962, _Guatenalan PPH1L2Z0295 ,

WE. 2 dose useinfon RTIZ. vidos (201-802058): oka Chena x NTIZ, 4
- ska gncrbts Cots Ds ght manivests show he ‘travelled Mexico-
Cuba 2 Yobruary 82, Guba. Nexich 2 Kovenbor 62, Guatemalan PPRV102223.

   

 

WS: ‘eka Fisttgonto." Idontifiod in one pirece
EXMIUS Chov. Flight nenifcst shots Uario.

  
 

 

. 5 Jose AntontofGARCIA ‘onterroso: aka Frernando”

Flight ManifeSts chov.dJoso Antonio GX UIA (Guatenalan PPW121542, nale
25 yorrs old) travollcd Koxico-Havana on 6 Fobruary 1982; on 20
October 1562 Jogo Antonio GARCIA Honterroso (Guntonalan PPv121542) |
travelled fron Cuba to Mexics< *

~~ ‘ G.- Carton knriquofLopRz Garcia: aka 4 Jone feeuon. .
Flight manifesta show Carlos Enrique LUPEZ (Guatenalan PP7¥120816
-2l-yeer-old ralo) travollod Moxico-Cuba on 6 February 62; on

22 Octobor 62 Carlos. E. LOPEZ Garcia (Gugtonalon PP7120826).. travelled~
Cuba-Usxico, .¢ a oo.

 

srattee:
ve 7 . 7} a)

etle, 21 yoars old, Guatoralan Pi/121424 traveled No tico-

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

 

  
    
  
 
  

 

 

-'y

a ty

    
   
   
  
 
  
    
   

 

     

 
  

  

 

* - 2 . °
. ° . - : . «
. . . ~ ee ad
So Sm, poe : : Seer. oe a
CONTINUATION o . Nath Cera eee ca)
OISPATCH : “a eK °
; BRORE Tw “EfOW-4035 ne
: te Julto 4 reas ‘eka tirte Por9
ke Eder fIClay Tied L ad April 1652, Totvening
Koxico 29 -Cstobor 15 Cuntcunlen FIV11584%. Also Fecorcad [tay
Raving. travollod Cuba-itoxicn 2 Noverbor 624 - -
. L,__goro Rteerdoftpenha Deeobar: kn Ricardo fips A, eke
a “Mojendro vou, Lortiplé travel ontrid on thio porcon bavo- ceucsd
sono confupicn but tho following representa what Koadquartora hao

boon eblo to ‘ncovor “so for: :

Soro Ricardo ICKS BRA Escobar, - ts, 2122303, Yoxicoe-Cuba, Fobrunry 1652
. ~ Feb e7 83 Esoxico-Cuba, Fobructy 1£52

Pa 3121803, Eouico-Cubn, 26 Ostebor 1632

Of. Praaises, Cuba-Hon ico, 2 Kove oe 1002

 
 

 

«

Sccording to EINANDA'o roport, ICALNA was alrondy in Cubs on a .
*"vernity ccholarchif) end waa ono of thoze who Fequoatod ceowrdlla
adag in mid-1032. when BEADS nothin, t+ .

  

Hee Guillorno Antontot. Crrermmo (201-707208) : -

‘ -- aganeve’ wACLAS “Paver want tontotee they YoLlowing:

. oe. ¢ Esnico-Cubs,. Hexch 202 +
my Hoxico-Cuba, 23 Ostobsr 1052
(579223573) Cuba-Hoxico, 2-Nove:tor- ico2
.
“4b ODA noted in his report thet PAZ arrivod in. Cubs int Sue for

weeiet training. Obvior ualy como trnvol is. nicaing in ch5vo isting: *

 
 
 

 

“pian Pocéur fe:
euery | 1662, Cuat: calen POLLLL2Z5.

. K, fodols: tol
Travelled fron D3zt
*

Le * doze Ireneice thrones Mayorn (201- £99223), Gantozalan .

   
 

“peyirssos A .
and, Cott Oster "VAT Foronds

vs Travelling together, . thio patr errived in Lonieo City fron

- Gunterale on 8 Ucpténtor 1961. + Thoy flev to Lonteral on 17.
., Eoptexbor enroite to Kogsow- vhoro thoy plenned to study.

ce

* Sudiente that tho Julio Vi

: trom Lexico City to Havana. in Yebruary 1962. -,

" ‘Aetion Requested . ares ey

     
 
 

. * tn bia roport Hn Bays ‘that of 18 ptenbor, 4 nore.
conrndos arrived -~ IC y 3 fxyon Eoxcov end
the two thet had attendod tho fol n} x etivel, Sous -

. Frencicco ULCIAS end Osenr VAICIS nby vory rolt bo tho HACIAS nnd
“WANCAS from Lorcow, roturning eftor ono yoar's atudy in Loscov,
- In Novorbor 1962 picts travolled Cuba-h ontroni-Prequo. .

«ie: uric yrrag ndopr lo (201-738769): Eoadquartors filos -
is Wit VY whoa LIRANDA was ataying upon his
return fron Cuba, ie probably Julio VIRLS Payrdopolo thens PGT :
sctivitics dato back to tho 1950'o end tho, in 1958, was Hving at
21 Avenida 6-39, Zone 6, Guatouala City. | . . ; :

7 Puce soatenfinmn 120 pe? neforred to in. ‘thio roport”
as Saaith "40 Xpand aa dadith'L2%A do Ibarra, Travel. nenifost
shows that Pura Judith LGA Izoppo: (Guatenalan Pav21768) travelled,

   

 

 

° 40. For JUMAVE: If 4c Fequosted that JHVAVE chéck all nezos and
psoudonyna for Infornation to pinpoint more closely. the specific
activitios of these individuals. Special’ attontion ‘is requested to

report) for special training.

-Edger IDARRA and Guillermo PAZ who arrived in July (according to the |.:

 
 

     

Saeeten Brualr ane RUUAEA

CONTINUATION OF TIA. :
* DISPATCH Rs HGGY-4033

 

[| —-—-—-—

Cor whtentions Traincon: Rileardo NIRANDA Aldena end Mario LES

| 3, MIRANDA fe a voll knovn rocbor Of thd Guatonalan Cozsunist
Party (PCT), a mombor of tho Contral Comalttce end the Political
Comnicoion. Ke rofors in this ronort to having boen fn Cuba on a .
provious trip whom Ancotas EIKOYAN was thoro (February 1230). - ™

Ay Woadquertoro files shot that KIRANDA (who ura voundod)
was ono of 19 Guateunlenn in a Nicaraguan revolutionary group which
’ wag captured ‘by tho Konduran Aray at Cheparral, Bonduras of 23 Juno -
_ 1959, This anti-Eonoza group wan oupported by tho Cuban Govornront —
which sont arns, fundo end ron. (While risking # plunce into | .
-fonanticien, it. ie noted that one of the Cubans killod at tho Battlo :
ef Bl Chepsrral was Onolio HERNANDIZ ~~ tho psoudonyn usod by HIRANDA
in tho atteched roport.}. By 9 July approxinately 30-40 nurvivors
wore rolenvcd by Honduran suthoritios and departed for Cuba, Abottt : i
25 of theco were still recovering from their toundo vhon thoy roro :
evacuated, in a special pleno arranged for by the Cubsn’Fobacsy in .
Togucignipa, UIRANDA scozs to have boon etong those who vent to =~”
Cube, for in Nareh 1960 he arrivod in Hoxico City from Cuba wherd ho
had been Living. (vhis vould havo pleecd hin in Cuba during HIKOYAN'e
vieit ea elairod above.) ‘It vee reported thet ho plenanod to roturn
to Gustomaln and in July.2950 Ricardo HIRANDA wan erzosted by
Hondurrn authoritics along with Guntonalcn revolutionnry, Lt. - .
Guillorno LAVAGHINO, ond threo Cubans. . Subscquently it was learnod
that MIRANDA, LAVAGUINO end Ludsldo HATAS Trigo (ubin) had crossed
the Guatonnlrn/ilonduran border at Ocotepequo from wharo thoy flow
to Togucigenipz. Whilo in custody in Hondures thoy cought .and :
_apparontiy réceived porrission to reaido in Hondures ao political , +
exiles, Ino leitor dstcd 19. Loptenber 1650 end cont to Tegucifnypa, . i
‘the Hoviniento Rovoluctonario 26 do Julio in Havana oxhortod HILALDA “
- to naintnin hio revolutionary fervor and advicod that thoy waro
sending hfu sono propaganda material, via o ecparate package.

  

 

     

: oa ¢ . mote . . .

B. On 28 Janucry-1961, Ricardo HIPANDA burned an Arorican oa Spee
flng in the prosence of othor young co: nists in front of tho Lux : : .
Yhenter in Guntenala City.” A source ccocribed ao a Guateralan vith
good cornunint contacts (f) reported thnt in Enrch 1061 RIRANDA said
that Pablo (inu), a Cuben arny export in guerrilla werfcro, had :
. arrived in Guntcnolan about 28 Pobrusry to train HIN‘NDA and about So,
15 other PGT recbors in eloctrical copnunicztions, sabotage and the .
uso of explonives, Allegedly, this training was teking place -in tho .
Departront of Retalhulou. . . : :

 

 

~~ c. in onrly April 1961 1¢ waco reported thnt HIRANDA was ‘to

be a membor of tho Guatemalan delogation scheduled to leave Guatonala

later in the nonth to nttcnd antunidentifiod youth congress to bo . ~
hold in Juue 1961. On 18 April, POT Control Coxaittee nombor Crerlos .
Rene VALLE y Valle anid that NIRANDA urs thon in Cuba. (VALLE also :

revosaled that Pablo dol RIO Lsrrera, Cuban eray expert in guorrilla : oo
‘warfare, hed left Guaterala for Hoxico.) (B-2) . :

 

Pin etn ley ere co tomer: mee eens

: . D. Ata nooting of Guatenalnn rovolutionnrios in August
1961 in, Guatensla City, Hicardo MIRANDA vas eppointed to train .
recruitssin proparation for an atterpt ageinat the Guatenalan :
Govornrent about 15 Eeptcubor.: And fn Decoubor 1961 it. was reportod
that in ‘tho ovent of an oxorgency, Party zonbers should contact. .
HIRAKDA who had arng fn his possession. Again in early January 1962

. it was reported thet MMANDA was in charge of arms which the FoT
‘was collecting. On 23 January HIRANDA travoliod to ifoxico City’ and ;

--¥ott for Dabnne. on 2 February. (to. initiate the training describod :
dn tho attached report). According to LINLUCK, MIRANDA brought ”
an urgent mossago fron Guatemala to GUTIERREZ who promptly attenptod
to got in touch with the Soviet Enbasay “ragarding &n urgent meosage .
from Guatemala.” (See Para 6 delow): This roport elosed with the .
 eonment: that-tho Soviets were interostéd and vory optisilstic about fj
the situation oxiating in Custenala, especinily in view of the -
‘Latout message from Guatenals. Soe,

: se pga gs ——
"ane enous gonon [erey ECWET

 

 
[tod t0t9-10074

 

   
  
  

  
     

ee a tT ET Tall SNR ehaS wees
abet RES

  

 

      
   
     

 

‘ eal oy . ;
: is . oe ° . . ; oF : 7 1

id _ . : i
{ ] any v"Gasteataa [ag ae PROCESSING ACTION ao t
a Ny ae Wes . . \ ;
ro SPATE [erties rar pa
it Chiof of Station, Cuntorale City; Cos, * SSVAVB; . . ud #
ide Chief of fiction, omice-Citn feo a5 eeies BiGuRED Pe "

. yp -]* C03, Tegucicaips; Co3, fsa falvedor ipabveaieninan : 2
A neem HEE AA PEs, RHUL Mb 8 IUOEE HRS . .
f Chiof, WI Division .
rt

Lort0% REQUIRED: £00 Pardzrapho 10-13, ‘bolow ., Lo °°

sso .
REFERENCES \ 2° A, DIRECTO} 10960, °5 Octobor 1996 \
: 1B. GRATIN!

 

. A CI“Y 6552, & Octobor 1906
: . C. NGGA-6174, April 1930).

An

. : pant . wee
4 Peckprotnd & 7 feo Se t .

1. Peforence C transnittod to reasquarte copies of Fc? .
dogk-ente eeptured by the C. enalen Judicial Poltés Imeludod ers
yopore cated 10 Nove:bar 1902 propnrod By “Onolio
: dotniling hia cuorrille end cor: cunieationa troining in
Cuba roa Fobruery to October 1962. In the oponing portion of his
roporty “EEVANIIZ" nenos big threo travelling companions fron
Koxico City to Cuban on 2 Februcry 1952, A check of travel nanifeats
has cho\n that tho only other Gunteialon (other than tho throo nased
An the repoxt) vbo travolled.to Cuba on that date was Rienrdo
(rneDA i Aldana (201-787308}. ‘ho only two Gunteralars to trovol
fron Eavena to Moxico City on 22 $rtobor 183G -- tho dato
cloins bho returned -- tore Catlos irae Carcin and Ricardo IRA
Aldana, Furthermore, at the tins “of his.arrest tn Guatcualn in dy
BSuptenbor 1965, 4t vos reported that HERANDA ueod the prooudonyi of .
“Onsifo." Thorefore it secns to bs a fnirly ssio assteption at this
Point that ths writer of this rcport wes Ricsrdo MIRANDA,

2. As a yesult of the obvious ZRIHICK duplications dn this wo
eacd, & summary’ tranclotion of tho report trs meade at Hondquarters oe
. end is attachod forovith. It should bo noted that-in this trans-
. - Yatien all commentary in perenthosis is that of “ESRITANDIZ" while
' ell breekoted notations cro thoco of tho Ecrdqusrters Dock. Where. wt
: > pocsible, Besdqucriers has eddod truo nane idontix<ications of . i
. porsons otherwice reforred to only by nt 2 or psoudonyn. The ;
basic for these tdentifications hre been sl ly travol infornation ae

 
 

 
   
    

    
 
  

 

 

 

 

: ang is expleinod for cich individual lator in thig dispatch. . : . { ; : Sg
. - (commu) ee LE \y .
Sas mo, oo . “ . Cho les ” . a

. i “y . ae
Cah aE bi) OSPATON BRES 2s _ : Tg e e
4 fre 167 Ck Zales &¢ |:
ef aul sitatt ae
3 ap

         
     
 

 

 

 

     

   
 
 
      
       
     
   
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
    
         
     
         
           
   
       
     
         
     
     
        
    
   
   
         
 
  

Sr araTeR seme BRO munen

La | BGGY-4035

   

  
 

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

; '  R, Prom 2 Fobruary'uatil 22 Octobor 1992, KIPANDA waa in
Cubs gor esdical troatrent and training in guorrills warfare and
connunicationa., According to tho attached report, HIR/IDA loft
Koxico City for Guatouala City 24 Octobor via str.

an ¥F. ‘In May 1963 4¢ wad reported that guerrilla unita.and.
party leadora appenrod to have colocted Ricardo VINANDA to opon
a guorrilla front in northorn Guatonala. .
s') G. A Fiold Coczont to a roport fron Guntonala City on ‘the.
Organization of the JP? (PGT youth organization) stated: "Rieardo
+’ QIRANDA Aldana waa re orted enrly fa Kovenber 1963 te bo the JPT .
* ‘gontact with lew students. According to Ricardo WARTINGZ, MIRANDA
. vives a joop in which he carries threo machine gung. Eo has been
an active noznbor of the JPT," Subsequent to this, Eoadquartors has.
no information on HIRANDA's activitios. or-vhorcabouts until arch ~
1965 whon ho vas reported to belong to a five-nan torrorist group
led by Rafcol TISCHLER Guzwan, chicf of tho PGT'sa Action Conaission.

H. Also in larch 1965 enothor uouelly rolisble cource ‘
reported that LIRARDA had in-his posoession sketches of tho honos .
of various officinls of the Judicial Police who wore on tho FOT/FAR
sesocsination list. A Ficld Comment fo this report described .
KIRANDA ae @ monber of tho PGT Political Corslepion. 7,

' . Hy In late Septentor 1965 Gunatopalen nilitary officials
in Puerto Barrios approhendod LIRAEDA. When he was turned ovcy
to tho Judicial Folico a fow dayo lator, he wes chargod with the .
eesnonination of tvo Guatenalan, businegonen killed on 16 August. .
Tho report of tho Guatenalan intclligonce cervico indicated tnat *
MIRANDA drove a 1055 blue Gpal penol truck owned by Ann Fetrons
Castillo, To MIRANDA, renident of 4th Street No. 12-6, Zone 1,
Guatenala City, which vas also HIRAWWA's residence, A concent to
this report indicated .that one Roberto -ALDANA, naling “Onolio,"
‘who had béen arrested in Puorto Garrios nbout 26 Septenbcr ond = *
lator transferred.to tha Judicial Police in Guitemala City, was
believed to bo identical with Ricardo HIRANDA Aldana. a”

woo, . J. Bienrdo MIRANDA Aldena was born 18 August 1935 in
Zecopa, Guatennin, the son of Ricerdo HIRAIDA (deconsed) and
Luz Aldann. We was dceseribed in-1$00 es boing 5'7%", weighing 155 lbs.
binck curly hair, dark brown eyes, Negroid features, unmarricd end

* a‘student. | . wt :

. 4, Hendquartors efforts to deternine the idontity of the
other covnunications trainee, Nario'LENUS, have boon only partially:
rovarding. In tho attrched report, HIRANDA deacribod LEEUS ng a
cousin of DernardotZiivs Kendoza(201-91575). A travel nonificst ”
trencnitted by, tho Konico City Etation chova that one Mario*L&EUS -
_ Chov, (male, 21 yours old, Pri/127424, Guatennlan citizen) travelled ,
from Mexico to Cuba on 2 February 1962 jpn’ tho sane Cubana flight
as Ricardo MIRANDA Aldena, Julio CovartitCI+S Uayora and Jose
*. ‘Maria{OaTiz Vides. In Septerbor 1933 LEAUS travelled with Leonel
ROLDAN Balguero to the Bloc, but it is not known when he returned
on tho purpose of his travel. In October 1964 it wan reported that
bd Guptenalan Goyornzent investiyators had captured Nario Frencisco +
US Chavarria, & native of Tucuru, Guntonala, ag ono of the
- assailants ofa nilitary garrison in Prenzos: (Alta Verapsz),
+ Guaterala. A Novonber 1964 report (UGG3616) reported that Mario
LELUS, who hold-tke title of commander in the guorilla rovonent,
was occarionally seen in tho Guatenalan Dopartnont of Coban. On
14 February 1966 Guatemalan police arrested Mario Prancisco LEHUS
Chavarria as a suspect in the machine-gun killing of two members —
. of: the Hational Police on.the night of 13 February 1966, .

«

 
 

    

 

 
 
  

wren io
oleae ret

 

   

[looormuge

    
74-0000

 

 

   

wee

        
  
  
   
      
 

 

CONTINUATION OF an alana yeu enw nae —~
~ DISPATCH a BECRET Loox 4033 r
eo _¢ . - on]
‘Cuban Instructors’ : . 7 . .

5. Ynacnuch an no Cobnn ecutuntent {Ino instructor was rontionod
yfhano in HIRALVA's roport, Hoadquartors is not attonpting to tdcntify
in thi dispatch any of tho othor Cuban instructors. Nowover, thoro .
ig oné excoption - the Lt.4/.COSTA (fnu) vho assisted in the ftrotning
of the Guatomalans noar ile¢rrcdnra bosch.. In tho original resort, *
“WIRANDA Oppaks very highly of ACOSTA an a porgon and ag bolag e ,
“namificont guerrilla.” This Cuban is Singlod out for eroeial
“consideration bocruss at tho tine pf LUNUS'a arrest in Fobruary 1966,
- there wee alco arrested ono JocugCOUTA Hornancez, a Cuben national.
Eondquartora hno-beon unablo to find nuy follow up infornation on .
thoso erreoto, It is-noted that ono Joous Reno £COSTA Fornandoz
arrivod in Hiami 12 Fobruary in a group of 109 Cedan rofucces dootinoed
- , for innpdiato rolocation in.Costa Rica. Tho preconce of Conta Rican
Consulor officiels in Niani procluded JIPAVE's sereenitg tho.  Fefugoos -
during their Uranus. stopovor which lantod only a fow hours.” . .

 

        
       
        
  

 

    
       
    

Soviet Contact . . 7 .

         

6. “According to mnt 6178 (Fobruary 1982), VIRANDA brought: an
“urgent mocoage from Guatenala to Victor Hanucl GUTILARLZ on yo,
23 Janunry. Shortly after LIPDA's arrival) in Moxico, GUTIERREZ - *
‘atterpted.to got in touch with’ the Boviet D=bassy rogerding an

urgent nessage fron Guatenals but wes ineble to reet with tho *
‘Bovicto until 25 January. Eoeting with then agein on 29 January, .
GUTIXERLZ reportedly tried to. potni'out the absurdity’ cL o-Coviot
Pplen to bring ebout a breck in diplocatic relntions botwaon Uexico
and Guatentlo through violence. : t

7. In the opening portion of his report, err, ANDA states that’
while dn Loxico City from 22 January to 2,¥ebrucry 1962, thoy net .
with Nikolay LLONO(¥), Culturrl Attache of the Soviet Enbacsy in
Hoxico City. In a later section of his report er. titled "rolnciones
<f Perconalcs," MINIMA nada: "ve also anv Nicolay LEOxov; Cultuyel . .
Attecho of tho Soviet Eubassy in Lexico City sho vas very nico to -,
-us, picking us up to go for a ride in hie car et night (I knew hin
the Inst tine in Cuba when he ens the tnensintor for Anaates
“| MIKOYAN and he known rand is a close personal friend of Lfigcnio's.
* cousin, Eornardo LELUS Mondoza, since 1953) ." ~ .
A . ar)
8. Hoadquar tere files reven} the following en LEONOV: - oe
A. Rikolay sorgeyevien tho ¥, born 22 August 15 528," narriod .
with cone daughter, speaks excellont “Bpunteh, Subject of 2o1- 132139,

     
     
     
 

 
        
      
       
      
      
          
      
  

  

     

    

   

 

   

. B.  LEONOV first arrived ‘in Koxico in sy 1953, Sand was an’
* Intorpretor/Secretary to athe Soviet Anbassador in Yexics City until
October 1956. | A ‘relinblé sonsitive source adviced that’ LNONOV
recoived GB training while in the UCIN fron 1958 to 1931, It is

. @iso xnown that he accompanied he MiKOYAN ontourese te Cuba in Februar

2 1960 for the Boviet Exposition. In July 1961 ho returned ECS to
Mexico City aa Third Secretary, Accistant Cultural Officor. Sonostine
“pbout July 1965. LEOu0V was pronoted te Second Sccretary of the Press
and Information Section. Ho ia a Known. KGB officer. — ¢

        
 

  

 
     
  

  

     
     

c. Priar to the’ anticipated 21 April “1963 departure from x
Hextco ef LEONOV for the USSR (proguned to be for hone leave); 2
Mexico City. Station nounted a surveillance on hin for the eventuality y
’ ‘he might nake sone, lagt minute-clandestine contacts. 4s a result, tho-|
team spotted ‘an ebvious half bour clandestine reeting LEONOV had on
+, the evening of°19 April 1963 tith Lorenzo CARDENAS Barajas.+ It will >
be recnifod that in April/lay. 1962, LINLGCK, dealt with CARDENAS in *
precuring arns for the PGT ‘and, in. fact, did -purchase some riflos
from CARDENAS vhich wore to be turned over, to-Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ
for shipzont to Guatemala, During these negotiations CARDENAS told
. LERLUCK that he had a great friend in the Sovict Embassy who wag
-. aware of CARDENAS'’s role in arms procurgfent for the Guatemalans.

   
  

 

 
   
    
 
 

 
   
  

  

   
