 

 

+

requesting clarification of Frank A. Sturgis

relation to Mr. Sturgis’

sho were contacts Of CEA,

In response to. Daniel E, Schultz! letter of 27 September 1973 |

" connection or association

with the CTA, Agericy ‘records wece again reviewed with ihe following -

results. |

articies by ‘Jack Anderson which appeared

 

by the CIA. Also attached

in The’ Washington. Post and The! Ham Herald oO

activities against the Cuban government; and.

m 21 August 1962, in

 

another article published in The Miami Heralu on 16. September. 1963 .

which shows that Mr. + Sturgis was acting without authority of the U.S.

Government. :

“Our Files indicate that Mr. Sturgis was friendly with pergons
while Mr. Sturgis: may have béen aware that
these persons. were contacts of CLA, Mr. Sturgis. ‘Was. not involved
in operations sponsored, approved or funded, by this. Agency.

Most of the inforwation on Mr. Sturgis available to this Agency

is. contained in FBI reports concerning his numerous exile activities,

 

 

vag!

eee

 
74-0000

ee te cc ee a . .

    

      

  

clos
Post. and The Miami Horald on 21. August 1952, In rolation

. to tis, seurgts” ac Fvitlos against the Cuban governmmont, |
ond snother articlo published in Tho ‘Miami Herald on
16 Septeaber 1963 which shows that Wr. Sturgis was acting
without authority of. the U.S. Government. — Se

       

Our files indicate that 4r. Sturgis wos friendly.
with persons, who wore contacts or agants of ‘CIA. While
Mp. Stutgis may have beeii aware that those persons were
“in soné ‘way associated with CIA, Mr. Sturgis was ‘sot.
involved in any operations sponsored, approved of funded,

by this Agency, :
Sy Host of the information on He. Sturgis available
to this Agency is containad da FST reports .conceruiag his, Z

: numorous exile activities. ~
Attachment to Wiu/COG 271-73

: LDO/WH/COG/0S/Cilopkins :jw
‘ Distribution: — , .
Orig. @& 1 - Addressee . : i
. pesWuD . j
. Originator
RH/COG
WH Registry 7
Watergate File
: '

 

be ne
enna

 
 

104-10224-40320

 

  

 

on ‘the activities: of fe Fran AL

 

  

‘trek Mrs Sturgis’ attorney, ‘aii

 

Orvikle Bathe ..
C/WH/COG

DDO/WIt/COG/0S/CHopkins :jw :

Distribution: ey
Orig. & 1 - Addressee , -
1 - B¢/WHD
~ 1 - Originator
: 2 - WH/COG .
4 1 - WH Registry
1 - Watergate File
4 @- Sturgis 201-272256

 

SebaeT

pata

 

 

 

 
74-0000

oat

 

ae Prank: FIORE

majority of its contcat * “being reports from ‘the eer dated

; base should deal with FIOQINI under “strict cover:

 

        

MEMORANDUM

Haan tM

There are four. vo

from 1958 through April. 1969.
' Agency information i jacludes a cable from Santiago dé Cuba -

 

. dated 7 January 1959 reves Fou claims to, be chief ‘of,
26 July Arms huyer. Miadi- and willing cooperate 140 percent
in supplying info. Cabie stated it possible FIORINI may ‘bose |
value to rebels hut pelieve worthwhile CIA endorse his staying
on. Has CTA replied ihat FLORINI had been under FRE

investigation for possiblé registration act violations ‘and

 

‘and not make any coonitments which might later be construcd

as usGovT approval his activiti¢s. * Wish to reiterate here—-— -°-- .-
that FIORINT was never enployed by the CIA. oes

The following is worthy of note. FIORINE was involved
.in Nov/Dec 61 leaflet dropping flights over Cuba. The ¥BI

queried CIA about allegations that the flights by FIORINI and

SECRET

 
 

 

:
i
'
}
i
i
{
:
i

was asked ‘hy CIA to attempt to obtain fron FLORINE

 

number if he was arrested. or stopped: on fights: and CIA wotitd

"get him out", These ‘Cuban overflights were net authorized
by CIA and. the FBT was alerted to fact it was not CIA
operation. (BARKER was generally known in Miami Cuban exite
community asia CIA source. ) Since BARKER was a close friend
of FIORINT, BARKER, shortly before the Bay of Pigs Invasion, .

infotinntion.™
concerning PIORIN('s activities. BARKER mot with FTORINI
several tines a month From fall of 61 to July 622 BARKER oo

insisted when queried ‘by CIA case officer, ‘that he never 4

£0 or operational data: including JIMWAVE

 

revealed elassified i

 

 

phone Aumbers to PTORINI. * FIORINI told BARKER that ‘the Le
leaflet op was conceived by Serpia ROJAS. A Ilqs cable to

IMVAVE dated. July 1962 stated that ROJAS had been non-operational

Since Feb. 62.

 

 
