74-0000

 

 

me

3. Tab C contains various letters from MDC to Dr. Alvarez

DIAZ, Finance Director of DRC eaclosing photo copies of letters

roceived from Cuba intimating recdpt of “medicines", etc. There

 

ig a letter to CRC attention Alvarez DIAZ from
Andicating how and to whom funds furnished him wora delivered,

Tab D is a@ report from Montecriati of the recoipte and disbursements

effected by that group from October 1961 thru January 16, 1962,

4. Tab EB contains the reports of the 30 of November Group
and indludes receipts fow purchases made for the underground and
of telegrams and other messages indicating receipta in coded

phraseology such as"Mi vida e1 regolite del Nino llego completo ,

Besos y abrazos, Mercedes", (My dear the present for the child

arrived complete, Hug and Kisses Mercedes.)
5, Tab F contains letters of transmittal and acknowledgment

of receipt from didferent individuals,
6. Tab G is a report from Union Domocratica, Movimiento

20 de May®, advising how delivery was made and also two letters
fron ag to hin handling of funds furnished him.

7. Tab H bef thw reports of November,

December and January.
8. Tab I contains the February report from Pascasro LINERAS

 

of FORDC, with phto cépies of the telegram and letter received

by him acknowledging receipt.
8, Although there are not many actual acknowledgments fron

wighhénCuba included in this material, the aum total is such as

to give reasonable assurance of proper usage and delivery of the

Seo GET

 
 

104-40233-0024

 

“ AUDREY
23 Febuary 1962 .

MEMORANDUM YOR THE STATION

SUBJECT: Receipts and Other Documenta Relating to Funds for
Underground in Cubs

1. Today De. Hiro‘’s secrotary delivered to me the receipts
and other documents pertaining to the funda provided monthly
to the Revolutionary Goups of the CRC for support of the
Underground, She gaid she had been cautioned by Dr, Alvarez
DIAZ that they must be locked up most carefully.

2, Rxamination of these documsrts reveals that the Councid
financial section has kept complete records of amounts turned
over to groups of the Council and recdpta for game; that these
recépta promise delivery in Cuba to the underground of the organi-
gation, report of deliver and return funds that cannot be delivesd :
(See recdpts Tab A) Tab B contains photostat of recdptsa Presented
by the MRR for tke month of November 1961, for purchases of
equipment and would mot apply to the montha cf December 1961 and
January 1362 which were firet two months ia which CRC was pro-
vided directly with support funda for underground, However, the
last item in Tab Bis a letter of December 1961 to RESCATE delegate
Hendez Pirez from Dr. Mario del CANAL Ferrer, assistant Secretary
general, describing how $3500 peros were sent ee |
in Escambray (after exchanging from dollars to pesos at 5.50) and
other amounts to @thers inside, Apparently they were sent to
DARIO the Becretary General of RESCATE, thru Dr. COSTALES
and HILDA (who received tho funds). Mention {9 made of letters
of acknowledgment received and others that are expected.

web

 

  

care TiTeleg
 

 

funds,
10. Copies of more acknowledgments from within Cuba erry
be requsted in the next report from the Council, ,

ajo

&
