74-0000 we

eee Tne j
take over — in fact “thay ) came very close to doing az 50.
" . In other words this @ raises a totally different question, That’ "sg why I :
; just want.

; don't want to go from one to the other, unless you {azexketergstedsie} a

general line of debunking. —-—I know what he has in his wird. He has
an (the) ;
uxgenexnk idea of sort, of an inside story of conspiracy. Ta actual
Cort of 3 i

 

 

thing it? 8 just a story ofp blundering and opportun-- well, sort of .

adventugism without-2%@ many of the things that are certainly imagined, |
fobviously the
you know, rr eed did rally together ids very strange people, =x
SB militant, sae - in other words, See an ‘excitable ‘left wing elenenti . :
an the United States, are people who vere not in any organization, gathered
around the FPCC. At a curtain time there was a romant od Cubasl Revolutions “
an=irrupien, it appeagied to students, in particular it appealed to such
Regroes, Te appealed in far less degrse to some of the older. people oe
the old Left, who were in the Communist Party, who had been in the Communis7~
Party; were # very frightened of it. got Sely they had bad the McCarthy
. experience 3x behind them, but that wasn't the main reason; Jt was simply
j that they had I supppose, reatly put behind thea this sort of effervescent 1
leftisng, which they would call infantile leftism. And this thy Scaugpene
out of the FPCC I suppose so many things have happened, I mean, now ~@aumhax
Oswald was a ecrewball and certainly had nothing really to do with the
Committee. In fact the true story about that I don't know, and I don't

thiak anyone else does know. But certainly it is nevertheless sormal that

 

Soneegh Mtg tine roma tarn tate te tattaag see 72
ay ow if you took the Bit i group. The ey ae attracts s_poopdcedahacthat ow ie
the Left element and you find people in SNIK=K know that a a large number of
people who were in the FPCC gmi are HEE in BREK and the afé secon
people, for instance, were the biggest consumers of Revolution in the
South. But at the same tine, this sdoesn't mean that they are Coumunists.
It means that many of them are, if you will, anarchistge types, or people
who are @2mgG@st disgusted with the i ian Pare De party, in other
words they don't | ‘seo any particular hope/. This is another thing, that
most of the ante ‘people were, and still are, non-ficlent, ~ Cis y
Keven - though they were interested in violencesgk and revolution, they, have,
a sert of feeling, well, as one person said, “we want to make a revolution
But we want to make it. non-violent.” Well, I don’t know how they're going
to do that. They don't; £n0 how to make & revolution. oe)

f gyi abaul F
Anyway, this raises so many questione~ A that’s SS I don’t want to

}

aot a Ran A A RN FL LBOR PRLEPONDENY GN WSN PULA LE UPAR 2: OA Nhe AOA AS ARB SMOLLIMEE ENA AP U7 AMSAT BEDI eR de Re Peavepatnerne or se

: get involved in it. Anyway, it's too early. It's not like Revolution, which

  
  

 
 

 

04-10217-10217

 

eet Sac MOR ONG ttn enene eee fove Ft ti ene nea a neem ene

 

WL .
. B could go back gnd check. The only thing I do need as I say, Exuuzex.

rm (Cbs > 2s Jos: [2
gv & better cover than I have, fhat_could_be, ceria as I went along.

Fortunately, we would hope “thet not too many people are going to compare

*

“estas Etienne 2

the story. The other thing the final thing- - the reason I. must Inve a
cwithiny 7 cyou're, 4

sone idea aXe reasonably short period of time about what gaat interested : :
tn’ what you're thinking D
in, -whnaugomdisk fs hecauega® I have to go ahead and make up my mind what ©

GP i'm going to do about the Atlantic Monthly=— if anything,

the Encounter cthougi”
even how I handle Sa wl th ings 1 I think I'l] just make

“Encounter thing_
‘& sort of first person account of Revolution, morg or _rene, debunking the
ee sort

press, There was another proposal that I do another, rticie for Atlantic
Gut under a peeudonya, words~~

Monthly, debunking the th in Bur H ino “Other,showing the
monthly there. ”s is and >

penetration charge, showing how little penetration, actually,<how suall the

' groups gam actually are in terms of the pumapa they involve.

That was the things ft course I could do anyway. But the pari I want

to do this, @ have a very serious financial problem. I “oum- running gp out of
my brother-iniav’ 8 largesse which is ceasing, and I have not been able

to find any work here. I have tried seriously for several nonths, without
any success whatsoever, and so this financial thing, you know, imposes

on me a very, very close deadline. I need some money very quickly.

(e personally curious about your reluctance to write on the rece,))
The FPCC business is simply domestic, in the United States. There

were many people involved in it, whe were (had) nothing to do-~ like

poor Walter Bow: whom I knew very well, in New York, before he was arrested,

with the os ie Now, Walter is no Communist and never will be

a Communist, though Walter is perfectly capable of noyonty blowiag up

the Statue of Liberty but shooting anybody in the United States necessary,

he feels, to secure some sort of end to the type of oppression that he

feels. : . Gut t)

ae
Now this is nct emo in other words, I wouldn't want, the type

_ one could agadm doy ;
of thing to do Pa ‘din with ‘the FPCC thing, the same type of thing I

“* goald do with nevolutios. You gust take the statements of J. Edgar Hoover

and contrast them with the reality ~ Hoover made a statement once about
the F PCC showing a curious coexistence~ a curious cooperation between

Trotskyites and Communists. In actual fact there was a violent battle

ana t db —p ig oe oO LP
. going on between the two, « What vas actually done by the Committee was

a generally done by people who. had nothing, to do with the Communist Party

pe ee whee F MABE IC a Lin Pet vm he

nor with the Ht }wP eras Certainly at one tine the “trotekyites tried to

 

i
3
,
Fi
t

j
i
i
3

|
7
1.
I
|
/

  
74-0000

- 46 a simple thing - you can say, in an eggshell (sic). ‘ “i i

a-h-h,
a question- what's your inclination about how to proceed vn
Ah-h-h, I don't know how Stews really I came to Bagland. T was

bem POY ft

sort of fed up with the situation in France, anyway. la-e-mey in terms

of Revolution, long before it aven collppsed, I had changed sy views about

Thought
it angjwell, the whole thing7~— I didn't know how to get out of it. And go

 

that was solved by (laughing) by the events thenselves. We- I thought that
" : had :
coming here I'd be sble to find some sort of work. In fact I kage been

premised by someone whe is a friend of a very prominent trade unionist
\ he hasn't been in the country-
that he would be able to get me something - - but/ Exkaxs been totally” .
jos DES been

unable to # carry outy bis promise. Rawtl
(would this have been political type work?))
No, it-was-golng-to-be—just=- he was going to get me a job as sub-

editor for a while amd then get me into an editorial thing. Then I tried

with many different contacts keg here in public relations and so on,

and had several jobs offered. I never had any explanation why I didn’t

get them. I don't know whether it is politics, racialism ~ although @€ that
plays a role inv In any case, I never m=. .
~~ 71 was definitely offered

CEng ngland as Wel L come
all here 27 with
a job, right around the corner &i.@ieusentex Upper G osvenor Street whoze

‘
- Rrepee at #2! 7
ett “Beane go Company,

_ the American PR firm gf called ¥
as publications director. They called mse and said yes. This went on for
months, negotiations and so on. And finally she got the money and I was
introduced to a British Colonel who had become newly associated with her,
and I was supposed to start work for then, and thea I got a letter saying

no. I don't know why. Hurgxepyetxkeeazakioxée get any reason whatever.

‘I'm not particularly keen on being active with political
I find it really, frankly, Eearkegyri very boring, after a certain point.
things. -

  

i
. co | - .
all six Trotskyite parties, - if you're interested- - : y _
é 8 that fellow you mentioned)) ' : =| ae

He's got an enormous zest for this sort of thing, and he's very

 

learned. He's very x@KEs knowledgeable. I don' t thinkseee Atter a certain
point in dealing with this sort of nicro-bidlogy I get rather tired of it.
But on the other hand, one has to see what one caa do, within the range
of one’s possibilities.

 
