74-0000

 

-7-

:
H
a
ae |
j
H |

 

23. El Mago does not work but his girl, Sonia, by whom
he has a child, is working as a dancer in Spain;so he does
pretty well there on her earnings. His wife and two children
are in Miami now. His father, a fine guy and good newsman, is

‘ im New York some place.

24. I have done my part in getting word to you. If you
want me to do something, let me know. If I get any further
word, I'll get in touch with the FBI here, Frank O'BRIEN, and
he will let you know so you can meet me. I have told all of
this only to INS, the FBI and you. I am not going to say
anything to anyone else.

ACTION: I shall discuss with « Frank O'BRIEN will
’ notify us if he gets further word. If you want to test this
by sending (via El Mago, unsavory though he be) a message to
CUBELAZ that we certainly are in favor of helping those who are
trying to make Cuba free but that we want him to send someone
responsible with full details before we make commitments, you
can send me a cable while I am over in Madrid. As stated
before, the file makes all of this seem a ball of wax. The
foregoing account speaks for itself. Maybe the CUBELAY boys
are sincere and will act, maybe they are just talking, maybe
this is a provocation. If you want to find out all that £1
Mago knows, it probably will be necessary for a staffer to
spend time with him. The Madrid Station was not disposed to
do this when I was there last.

  
   
   
 
 
    
 
 
  

 

NOTE: I used the name Harold Safely in the meeting with
ESPINOSA. .

Harold Swenson

CA

|
|

 

 

SANSA Ay CED Rtn CMRP CRL ARIA CHR Ee

 

an ARRON Hie nS ERT

mrarsemmercistiontemmamarnDraarens enya pene eee
yore!

 

 

 

(aisha eget
Fehineruletinshikial elcid sto

 

be
 

po

“ha,

 

Fae

cues Stata

te

oat

 

  

 sgtnel eer
So

14. I sent El Mago a ticket so he could travel from
Madrie to Paris to see me. This is because your people in
Paris said they could not help me get a visa to Spain and
because when I tried to enter Spain illegally { ran into
trouble and turned back. As I said before, I wanted to get
confirmation of what El Loco had told me. El Mago confirmed

everything.

15. Now to mention the problems about your people, I must
explain that these are incidental to the real reason for seeing
you which is to give you the message from Rolando. I did that.

16. Rolando said that he did not trust _

and did not want to see him even though wanted to
meet Rolando when Rolando was in Europe jast. I have known

for years, since he was in Habana and belonged to
the Vedado Tennis Club and was drunk by three p.m. every single
day. Recently in Madrid, he has set up 4 Cuban girl in an
apartment and he got her a job in a Cubap pefugee office. She
stole files or the contents of files from/ office. She is :
working for the regime and fell for her. Her nick-
name is Tota. This makes not a bit of difference to us except
that it is further reason that people risking their lives
against CASTRO do not confide in .__Do not confuse
fota with Beba, another Cuban girlfriend of . Beba
is the niece of Julio LO . She is divorced from @ friend of

3

mine. She has been going with and she is all right.
says that) s the CIA chief for Spain and Africa.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Some chief!

17. Another one of your people whom my friends do not
trust and whom I do not trust is Carlos TEPEDINO. He has a
jewelry shop here in NY around 47th Street. I solid him a
couple of my paintings some time back. This is & man who is
out to make money and who will do anything for money. You «

\
yi?
should not trust him but you do. For example, he told you

that he has the confidence of Ambassador CARRILLO in Paris, that
he could become better friends with CARRILLO if you supplied
money with which to buy confiscated jewelry from CARRILLO. So
you gave the money, the amount TEPEDINO asked for, TEPEDINO —
paid less for the jewelry to CARRILLO, TEPEDINO made a nice
profit for himself, and CARRILLO thought it all very funny.
CARRILLO told friends that he knows that TEPEDINO is working
for you CIA people and won't tell TEPEDINO anything which
CARRILLO does not want you to hear. CARRILLO told all this to

£1 Loco BLANCO.
18. Also you should know that TEPEDINO tells you that he

agrees with you but when he is with others who eriticze you,
he tells them that he agrees with them. He has been acting as

SECRET, <¥85-BNEY-

lage Bp Seman ROA TEE ee SH had 0 veptytantane MOeOP ga URE Oba be ater,

agitate Rae

 

7

prey es

oly RR Eine acd witb

TREY arabe

pera:
41-0000

SERIA EN AES EE RYIONE TRAST INTL STP IAT RHR Sonar herb ORR Re pune SREP GETS IT? abe eA it eo aap a tae

“Bled ny eacdioedincter nein aa a cha na cating tected een cene testament Sherine

geen

 

-6-

f
& supposed intermediary between you and Rolando CUBELAS in
connection with this plot. This is because CUBELAS trusted
TEPEDINO as an old friend. Let me explain that this TEPEDINO
is an older guy so the friendship is not like that between
Rolando and myself. We double dated, fought and plotted
together. This TEPEDINO is different. He is out to make
money. He has been telling Rolando's friends over a period of
time that he has CIA contacts and can get anything needed from
the CIA. He has not come through. They want nothing else to
do with him.

n
J
19. Another of your people is Wreny BERNAL who works for
in Madrid. BERNAL was Cuban Military Attache in
Japan when he defected, absconding with $18,000, all of which
he kept for himself and none of which he contributed to the
counter-revolutionary cause. This is the kind of Person whom
you trust and whom we do not.

 

20. About your Paris people, Bob, Dick and Maureen who
is Dick's secretary, there is no compa lint in particular,
Maureen does not know when she is being kidded. Luis TRASRNCOS
and El Loco BLANCO saw her in Paris. They jokingly asked if
she would work for thdSoviets for twice what you people are
Paying her. She paled and swallowed the story. After El Loco
told me the story, I talked to Maureen. I confirmed it.
Maureen is the go-between for Luis TRASRNCOS and Dick. The
problem is that we can't be sure that we can get the story from
Rolando CUBEL4S to the CIA chiefs by using your Paris people.
We don't want Luis TRASRNCOS or Luis FERNANDEZ to know more
than they need. This is just good security. They know enough
about the general plan but they need not know details. .

21. Others who know quite a bit are ARTIME and his aide,
QUINTERQS. I don't think it good that ARTIME should be too
involved but CUBE needed some help. CUBELAS met both
ARTIME and TEPEDINO in Europe. They agreed on a few reference
points on the north coast of Cuba as possible exfiltration
Places from which ARTINE could pick up CUBELAS' people if some-
thing goes wrong. Also ARTIME gave something to CUBE which
Cc ‘took back to Cuba in his bag. I do not know whether
it was a rdio or not but you people ought to see to it that
CUBELAS does have a radio so he can communicate with you.

. 22. A little about myself: I have some money. My family
managed to get quite a bit out of Cuba. We are trying to get
the rest of the family, my grandmother and my uncle out. They
live at 15th and Linea in Vedado, Habana. My grandmother is
Juan IRIVARREN and my uncle is Pedro HERNANDEZ. They are
supposed to have gotten visas for Spain and to be getting exit
permits but we have been hearing this for some time. I used
my own money to buy passage for El Mago between Madrid and
Paris and to pay my own expenses.

SECRET BPS

 

iehother =.

AE ade UE a il net

ro ee

ABBE ews -

peers etcaemanratigenanmner smug

het

cenenenattnanisininnma penn —sandgerediene wenuranerionen!
74-0000

 

a) SECRET

} a“ = . su |
f ,
; “2 |
|
i
|
|

3. After CASTRO took over I left Cuba and engaged in
anti-Castro activities. I got shot in the process, I was
betrayed by some of the Cuban exiles when I was going to bomb
Cuba, I saw how the CIA bungled and I became bitter. I was
bitter about Rolando too. I thought that he had turned
communist. I sent him a message a long time ago, telling him
that he was a traitor and no friend of mine. That was when a
Pan American stewardess whom he liked came to me with a message
from him about how he was still a friend of mine and things
were not like they seemed. I got mad and told her to tell him
off for me and I showed her the bullet wound in my leg that I
had because I was fighting CASTRO and those with him like
Rolando. Afterwards I did not hear from Rolando until just a
little while ago. fe KEKE RE
. 4. It was in May when I got a letter from an old friend,

Ripaerers FERNANDEZ -’'He had written to me before to let me know

   

“¢hat he is working for the CIA in Paris. This letter in May
was pretty confusing but Luis made it clear that there was
something very important, that it involved Rolando CUBE ;
that Rolando wanted me to go to Paris on an urgent matter,
and that another friend, Luis TRASANCOS, knew something about
it. The letter said that the CIA knew about this and that
Luis FERNANDEZ thought maybe the CIA already had told me to
go to Paris, although he was not sure.

GE BAER

ee

0 EINE IEA Lh ROA Ca TE

;
{

5. I decided to go to Paris because of the mention of
Rolando. The CIA had taken my old Cuban passport when I was +
in training in Guatemala and never returned it. Also, because }
I got caught when I tried to bomb Cuba, the INS had warned me ; it
not to travel outside the U.S. saying I could go to jail for 4
five years and I could not get a re-entry permit and all that. i
However, 1 checked with an INS officer who. knew me. He said 4
that probably the INS was not so interested in me anymore and +
I probably could get re-entry. Because the lettdr was so : tt
pressing in my travelling at once, I decided not to go through }
a lot of red tape. I went to Florida to see my brother, Rene, |
residing at 5000 SW 69th Avenue, Miami. He arranged through ~ a
some friends whom I don't know to get me a false Cuban passport. of
(Note: The pp has number 423335, is dated 19 November 1964,
bears the true name of the source, and has entry and departure
eachets for London on 4, 7, 10 and 21 May 1965; for Le Bourget
on 7 and 21 May; and for Orly on 29 May 1965.) I- bought a
ticket and left for Paris without having any trouble. I am
not sure about the dates and the sequence of travel because
everything was so hurried. I went to London as well as to
Paris and I tried to go to Spain but had to turn back. Anyway
I remember the important things. .

tte te ot

8

 

SECRET

Seth D nin eat an ia ee hee ger ates oe dee OR ee

 

      

gpaavertus

+ sat

ES
mye
  

 

10216-10413

+

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John Hart

SUBJECT : CIA Operations and Plot to Kill Fidel Castro,
Raul Castro and Other Key Figures of the

. . ot
FROM : Mr. Harold Swenson : |
Present Regime in Cuba i

i

Source: Victor ESPINOSA Hernandez (201-285147), born 26

August 1937 in Cardenas, Matanzas, Cuba, a PM trainee who
was terminated as a malcontent on 20 March 1961. Present
address is 415 East 52 Street, NYC, where his telephone is
HA 1-7875. °

Supplemental Data: ESPINOSA flew Air France from Orly
Airport (confirmed by cachet in pp) on 29 May 1965 and on
arrival in NYC the same day contacted an INS Agent named
CAVASANJIAN (ph) who, on the basis of information in the
story of ESPINOSA which appeared to affect U.S. security,
notified the FBI. Special Agent Frank O'BRIEN of the NY- .
Field Office of the FBI interviewed ESPINOSA on 2 May 1965.
The FBI notified us on 3 May. I saw ESPINOSA on 4 May in the
NY field office of the FBI. Frank O'BRIEN was present.
(O'BRIEN said that INS at Washington, D.C, apparently had
received a report and had notified FBI headquarters from which
@ supervisor had telephoned O'BRIEN to inquire whether O'BRIEN

& knew about aspects of ESPINOSA's story with derogatory allega-
& tions about the CIA, including )
s

 

Paraphrase of the source’s story:

1. I do not have a high regard for the CIA or for most
of the exiled Cubans but I am against the Castro regime for
which reason I have become involved in these matters about
which I must be sure the CIA is informed. I contacted the
INS and the FBI because through them I could ensure contact
with a responsible CIA officer.

: _  &. I was a good friend of Rolando CUBELAZ’. We conspired
d : together against BATISTA and we planned assassinations of .
>) Batista supporters. We carried out the killing of one of the
__ Si chiefs, Ri6o-Geten, successfully. A lot of things the
@nti-BATISTA students did were not effective but we did more
than talk and this old assassination is proof that people
like Rolando and myself act. .

 

  

eo pets SECRET
File a eee 6 Cun.7h

= Fen Doe

  
 
  

 

    
 

ap pdt area, OF.
alee

   

oo
a
 

mo

De eee gat eer eS

res Sam SE»

iin tena nna earn meer nant nnn pee ae

 

 

6. At Paris I telephoned Luis TRASANCOS who invited
me to lunch in his apartment. When I got there, I found Alberto
BLANCO, "El Loco", whom I have known since early 1959 and
whom I considered a traitor. I called Luis aside to tell him
this byt Luis explained that BLANCO was instructed by Rolardo
CUBELAS to see me, that Loco and Rolando are against CASTRO,
and that my seeing Loco was the reason that it wes so urgent
for me to come to Paris.

7. Rolando CUBELAS had been in Paris a couple of months
earlier and, according to El Loco, had left a letter instructing
El Loco to get word to me personally and asking that I get in
touch with the CIA on the highest level. El Loco did not have
the letter with him but I believe it. I know that Cubans are
liars and exaggerate and are insecure and all that is wrong
about them, but I know what is good about them and how to check
on things. So I cross-questioned El Loco and others until I
was sure that they told me the truth. What I am telling you
is what I found out from El Loco, confirmed later through’E1
Mago’ ROBRENO, and confirmed in part through questioning others
who know parts of the story but not all of it.

8. Rolando CUBELAS plans to kill Fidel and Raul CASTRO
and other key men in the regime. Rolando has a house at
V@radero Beach adjacent to the house of Fidel, so it is easy
for Rolando to get Fidel any time. The idea is not just to
kill Fidel but to change everything in Cuba.so Rolando has the
cooperation of other people whose names I do not know except
for El Loco BLANCO and El Mago ROBRENO and ALMEIDA. Rolando is
very security conscious so he does not want people involved
to know any more than is necessary. You must understand the
danger to these people. What I can tell you now is that El Loco
has his faults and so does ROBRENO but both worship Rolando and
are trustworthy insofar as he is concerned. El Loco is back
inside Cuba now. El Mago Robreno is in Madrid and can get
messages in and out. He is responsible for killing many of
my friends and he kicked their dead bodies afterwards, so I
do not like him and maybe later I shall kill him;but for now I
believe that he is useful and can be trusted for the matters
which involve Rolando and the plot against Fidel CASTRO.

9. Some of the CIA people are not trustworthy. This is
what bothers Rolando CUBELAS and El Loco and El Mago and me too.
This is why Rolando wants me to get his message through. He
wants an answer fast. The message is that CUBELAS and the
others with him are able to kill Fidel and others in the regime,
but they need some help and they need to know whether the CIA
and the U.S. Government are with them and willing to support
them or not. If the answer is affirmative, Rolando will send

SECRET. SY

 

   

i
4
3!

 

 

 

 
74-0000

a

~4-

|
I
|
fo eT BRE-GHEY oe |

details about what he needs and so forth. Time is important 4
because Rolando says that he cannot delay more than three or A
four months. That is the maximum. Cuban security forces |
would find out and arrest everyone if there is more delay. ‘
Rolando will send someone to see you if you agree to support “
him. Among other things Rolando will need some money, Cuban :
not American, or some gold or something because some people
have to be bought. Also he might need help getting people out.
Anyway he needs to know your stand. .

go said that on 5 or 6 June someone
is passing through Madrid en route from Prague to Habana and
that this person could carry the answer to Rolando. They did
not say how I should get the answer to El Mago but I suppose

I can fly to Madrid to give it in person and, if you want, one
Of you can accompany me. I myself Suspect that Rolando will
move earlier than in two or three months. I believe that

11. El Loco and El Mago have access to ary Cuban Embassy
in Europe and these embassies are engaged in contacts with fy
communists and in subversion, The same applies to embassies in iy
Africa. El Loco and El Mago could have been giving you valuable si
[{ae,net use allalong. Yet your people play security games and an]
i
{
|
i

peeeieimmmmmanmmamemenatenete ROT
tot
i=)
ot
bt
co]
Fs)
i=]
a
3]
ro)

do not use people like this. Instead you use unreliable and
risky people.

12. El Loco was in Europe as an officer of Cuban Security.

He had codes, ciphers and microfilm to prove this and he showed i

them to one of your People in Madrid. What better proof do you i
want? What did you do about it? Nothing. Yet this man, a

member of the Cuban Security, offered to work as a double for i

you and he tried to tell you about Rolando's plot. Now he is :

back in Cuba. As the result of his frustration over your : 5

attitude, he was in terrible mental state when I saw him. Had ;

I been your people in the CIA, I'd not have let him return that cos

( way. In his upset he could do something rash which might blow

the whole operation.

13. El Mago ROBRENO is a delinquent. He shot an American
in Cuba over some private disagreement. He shot a police
officer. He beat up his wife, now his ex-wife. This is apart
the trials of counter~ z
revolutionaries. This is why Fidel wanted ROBRENO out of Cuba.
ROBRENO is a delinquent, a trouble maker and an embarrassment. _ }
In the Cuban embassies in Europe, they know this. So they do i
not want trouble and they see hin. They do not believe that he ~ |

i

 

is counter-revolutionary or plotting against the regime. He is

useful. SECRET SEER

Netbeans

Doan ape ae ge
wee leeo th ot a ee

  

 

ety

3
LJ
i= 2
a
@
”
ran
od
be
be
R
o
8
i=”
5
p
pes
Ph
°

My
n
Fe
i=]
pe

i=]

 
