ARNO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

8
¢
?
ARNO

 

  

 

 

 

res

. a
t

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

  

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

my ao . . . woe 7 . ° . .
rs t
+
yo
i
I

ah

Fem cue

 

Fe eenemnes pete Sch ce ed an : sol

4
+
 

 

 

 

Chief, Contact Division a ah March 1962
Atta: Gugport: Brooch (Crowley) a aie

Chief, Washington Office
Interview vith AIEC Comittee

Le kt the request of Mr. Ashcraft for leicht, WH Division,
Frank Sheridan {aterviewod the comxittee for AEC at tha Washington
Field Office sn 24 March 1961. ‘they consisted of Abel Mestre. Victor
_ Bedroso, Silvie Smaebria, Leslie Pantin, Carlos Garcia del Tron, and
Paul Seiinan. Heestre steted thet the organization veo founded sbout
June 1960 in Hiewl es a clandestine apolitical group with the objective
to ovurthrov Castro, to wilte the various Cuven exile groig snd to
oc -qpemte laws fur the effective reconstructica of Cuba. Femborship is
Comprised of. individual businesewea rether than representatives of
2. The committee had been meeting with vartous Uuited States
officials in Veshingtan, D. Co, to acprese ite vicws., Ite mabers
ere worried. over Cestro propagends, which, although wntrue, has becn
accepted es fact, 1.a., twenty thousand iiilings by Betista and the
Clain that Castro's was a social revolution rather then a political
ong. ‘they polated out that the Q2ean econcry vos fomecrly proepering
with en enlerging middle class, so that the term social revolution
hae been used by Castro primarily to promie iciist cozsures. in
addition, Labor leglelation vas in effect which actually pot euployers
ef a disadvantage vith exployees, caspercd to ths other countries of
Latin. Ameriea. ‘The problem facing Cuban labor ves primarily ths
‘peenonal ane crop econamy. ow the pecyle Lave less pey, lesa
camodities available, no claims agniast enyone and merely work for
@ Castro-Comenist goverment. The farmer hea oot been helpad vy
agrarien reform, but has been obliged to enter cooperatives or to
aell his craps et controlled prices, which are pald when end how
the goverment pleases: This ie merely an imitation of vhat Castro ©

promised. .

3. The comntted fecls thet mpporters of the revolution actually
were seeking honesty in goverment and the Liberty outlined in the -
1940 constitution. In thio regard, the orabars feel that the Comanists
nay try fora eecind round in any government revlecing Castro. Such ‘
am tnterin regice must develop careZul measures to promote true
democratic elections. This govammest may include covert Comamists
uto would be s constant threat. For this reason, it waa epheatzed
end re-emmbasized thut the exile leatars be most carefully screened

by the United states before their returi to Cuoa.
 

 

 

 

     

 
  
  
  

     
       
 

reece

SENDER wy LL CHECK CLASSIF TION TOP
T, UNCLASSIFIED GAY. oe DENTIAL

. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
; OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

     
 

ANO BOTTOM

[secner

     
 

     

 
 

F
roma 237. meplees Foe eet

 

 
 

 

 

” ghould be consulted 6% all etegas>

 

. ‘Re A saijor concer: has been unitication of the verious exiled
factions. This has nowy started, Dut the committe: fools that
wusinesenen euch as they represent sbould be proportionately represented
3 cent during-the enstere period cf reconstruct lone
‘ , 8 of any shaie sboald be included in the
government. | Jusivens representatives Gf tha eoonomie
classes: should. participate for the firwt tins in’Cuben politics and: .
5. hey cxphasized that the problen ts not merely & Cuben one,
wut ie o CQmramist springboard against the United States. They urged

‘that the United states éo, vist they, the businessmen, failed to do in,

Cubé ~ to. tebe the affansive. Developants in Culm heave followed the : gh
classic Cammmist techniques, so thet it should not be difficult to - ft .
anticipate future mores. Waited Btates propagemin must be overhauled.
Ib should be less pesstve end more effectively aggressive. Yo. date,

: propagenda hes deen the Cumantete’ mat effective veapon aod the

q. a@ilvio Sanabria commented thet, although CTA appeared to be
in touch with all of the other Cuban grows, to one bad syproached
hia orgeniestion to essiet or to leam whet it was dod. The whole
camittes offered to be of any possible asgistence to CIA et sny tine.
So effort was vate to solicit infornstion or funds fron CLA during ©
this seesica. : . a . . ,

F. gd. Serida,

Pnclosures: 3 ARZC documents

WelA2T9

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Pa ce genet
BE EATS AS es,

 

 

  

 
 

 

 

PK raithe

she

 

  
 
 
 
  
