 

     

”
oo

womovles a Teta bk Vinee, oe esta erstiin dorms Cn eristan,

 

Orem de les cenfet natn tantetoales oe town at or tant inal ce

EL Cateero, fue el sre Vgahert: S-FUN, .

 

Broles sgnieinies se tealiea Las rn ciens--

relat wee ain cart: eon

Nomieca ‘cl: Peis, .

   

baie, esta meioes ner ot ‘intse

See Les trfsunsles militares 2

   

tere ce Interior v Low feivites te avis mestenece: st okey

Jvatictas
tae- Nincu a,
1O.- Bre Municinin del EL Geterr, Habara, arate ce la secer-efon

de anidal Eecal-rte, destitiicreson ot Coorsiuntor ae has Oi en T oho

 

2 Mes ecaiw)eddn see "Pancho", «1 ental

 

Manteioto, neo Sealy Francisea PS:

vive eel lenrte “Las Wefaas’, ane) mime EL Catacee. Untcimnts lo

s$evararm- de! Get) > ore neupaha,
T2.- 0 La OW & La Jucei son les tog ore niscoe cue codernan Loc munt.
cinies, ‘La mite: funeter de isa Anintace thea, es la ge ume C*teina

Yeentidendsra, -Li cei se ercares da ta martes sconeni¢e vv cehe nerer
: : ne

e- practicn, e- el cmnicinlo Lor stares ce te tr-ra Ie Jucet Provine

  

Tefal, actos a ou ver loa veeite de la Jt BAT

rode Jesoetna ‘a,

 

ZL Carvet Laterel ote s: Llama e-.estes mon = te¢. Cart
e

regan’. en

7

 

pies se este erereeorea a Los ae no trshaton, ‘a esta ot

el suntetosts ve ot Cotorrn, «© las Oficinas ‘ve ca Jucel, eis cmdan
Lie de te time lica,

 

ene. erento Avunt= eto cel Gtorm, » 1:

Santa Yaria ve leserie, Caterrs, La Havana,

Canta wo s ii ve Cube, ef 24 de aevata de 1452, 02 Panteinte fe El

reles, Lr- cuae

 

Cotorra, se sstrssr ncaba: te Ap ertresae loz cornets Les
ne ots Garretera- Cen.

   

les eren rererti“as ore! Cente cole oun

 

encia, Cereorra, ‘abaca,
° :

tral, ov b> Gelie Usrada Indene
Se-ha ates et ommor eve sloane re ten earnet Lab rel, Me nedechecer

uso co clertes liveres ce diversion, teles com La Plavs de Var- ATO»
$s ? 4 ;

Ta curl, en estos a entas, ab itca ataca ‘unics vo enxnclosivo me te mera

obrerss e¢ecsleres,

 

 

 
 

 

, Xe

bee OUD estan acer tinatag enn oe Casttos le Ueferss de ta Xewl ieton
por meta ce tas Sseet nes de dich) a Cortre: ‘e Teferma, ;
Lae 0.2.1 tienen a e+ ares La orlettacion ~etfties el nale v rectica

una nnefor infor acive al Cnoene blamaleaGe2, Comics el Ga2 Llecs
-f Loa puebloa sare s-Lleitar aleuns {rfermacto: saber er sonas so 8ne-

ehosag, Lo prire-> ave hacen er sererer ene nteacta ean Las 0.2.1, les

cue noa del Ga2, ere pi bl de EL Crtero, no visits nara nada Las

Estaciones ce Policta, sine one Lo auemmovil-s fel Ge? averiruan le

ove desean en la OCi ine de la 9.5.1. La Oricina Ae Tal 0.8.7 en. el

tercine Munietnal “e G1 Cotorrn, erta or la Calts de Ine ependere fa, ne

es 'a Carretera Central, conde ataha ta Case de Socorras de El Coterro,

preefenmente al Lato del Cuartel ee Ronberos.

17,~- AL menor, en 6t buehisn de EL Creare, La 0,%.1 e@:ta inteerada cast

en atl totalf{’ad ner mietheas cel Partico Selrlists roo:ler,

Lue El unico apova nopular aietfere el caller oe Etfe!l Cestro ae
hasan enlas milfefas, Esto ecnatituce un LO$.ce? anis. Betirs del ove.

hho el Gol-Lermode “idel Castro piece tener otr> LOS ve arevo poplar.

20.8. & la Werra de El. Escambrav, hav activi ades ve merri lias,

Bo la Cludad de Niwai, hey ur senor c ¢ se llaca Roberts Avencibla,

‘ae een Ganiten aot ajerefits Sehelde, wore wns e contr de! Gabte-no

el 17 ce Abril de L-61, nermanceten’ una setann en La Habana, dires'e

b evel hig: eesnentacies cue ineferaban ce nenenda algerse. Se dessrares

elo vise presume eve estiviera e: el Ascambray, “esd= fonve Lierr a lcs

Eetrctos (mites de Awrica,

Pac cersoras atte han wricn de in Gienave ce Zarata, eo los orf{-ewe
dias Col mes de A oate de L062, be terice in’ crecton de cue ha habide
“rpunes ce alzacor e etcha zena,los cue caawctcn heches como tfrotecs

ecovtre las gusguas me cirenlan por cletos -arases,

A ines de Julie de 1362, fie nuctiaca una cuager Gie vo co Guines ala
a , 7 tng

rls s de Fl Roscrtoz mer Nuevd Paz, fue tirotesta una suartinr, penchenvo.

Ls las womas, Gete tine ce heels ocrr-e a merue, hat ion sido cles

 
 

2217004

aL S ys Ae
\.

Seti VS Vw, Sr. Jone A, Law LAO
; MICRO FILYEO

SEA ds Deatage del Vet UMAnpelo. |
—— . WLR Z0 1963 -

 

Pechar Sentiembre 3 de 1962 - -
—me . . . Soc. Mca sea,

ALES? EL'S-.) dose A, LAG LAICO salto a ta Habana, Chea,

cel dia 26 de Arevta de, L962, 2 bor’a 4s laMotonave Satrusteg tl, ‘Lien

‘e Parcelona el dln LB 4e Sent thre de 1962, On dla

 

Ares

gande al Prerta

cha poblacion ae tr state a Madrid, tonite enna refe noe earncto de
: . .

unes dias, ver ‘ose hacta Fl Ferral del Canfillo, conte clane unas fae.

miliares. Me manifesto mie, par“ maments ne ep nenaate tresladar

nactr Les Estacos Untens de Ane fons Enoet ct sn de Ie eorvireneion
sue hat ria nartictorada clone st ty averte

ett de EL

a - martuviaer ine dada cone a”
om el Poviatenbo tevelnch tacia del Prat le CHB.) on et de

Crtorre, ov la Chivad de la Mabana.

 

PLanillas de (nfertacion bier af icas.

te Llenas dichas nlanillas con ol “na, GeL7N967,

ey EST. MONM ;

SLi Pica,
ee

 

 

Lle= & Gasshsto- ado tel Cotorras nas

tecrine Myiteipel. Se rar “Bea GUIELLE Ur GOKSA, date tn aivicne ha aidan
sy al Suéerter de la fenubliea, no ss cw ters no, tin’ motti-

trealata:

wale a> tresla®

(de eRe gg cory
fores Cont stona’o® , de EL Cotorre, Herhara e

Pueda citar can aster
ye
leg estn sreso en, Isla | vo

Jose HESS Gy: SZALEZ, BL a6, Mes» Gonga
fe Ie “a
an

ce nifan del

twee 1
fdo nl Movi ‘teres. «74, de, dulto v llees ns
pee

Wa te pert nec

~ 7
IG AY tele @- Fidel Castro. ‘Des FC'anase a Yee THLas de te Onntrar eyolu-

eton siendg derentla mien te bLava tren en ot Mmicinrto de EL Gotorro,

 

Les han sf ‘o venltteas, debttomens

a gercMleabr. oe la JUCET 6 “Leno

fa el hecho de haber wo tats en Ins eloceiones de Kevt “hee
74-00000

 

baa ak .
ue ue Gal 7962

 

 

Irptosiéa re

BRE a! We EEMEVIST oR
Be Aa wliy 2 : — Bonde deat Dttagon
- CNA DE LA ENTREVISTA” : an : hare.
° “S. = ~Sasp. a 7 are} At erhteonn
: ; del Sptrus-a cf entre Ba Cuatra
y Torerifae

 

 

 

+ GRADO DE CULTURA

 

 

  

 

 

 

TLLUEUTAL SEDTA 0 OESTSSraLrmaps | gupsrror
oan * . ‘ '
- 24AD0 DE INTELIGENCIA
LORPE_ EDIANA __ AVISP.AD0 __ INTSLISENTS"
‘ameter ——— ana iene ,
- CARACTER: PERSONAL
“ s—_. APASI02470 = OBSERVADCS TEALTSTA___
- SU RELATO BS: :
CLARO PRECTLO_ _. SENiLto SKICERO_ge a
+7 GRAND © COMFEAAC LC: .
ABLE RTO _ x SULBIZO Lex tbRego
eee x ;
ete.
om -
t ~

 

7 ee

 
 

ae

 

 

ree

eGo Gono ln Enel Lad,
= Qe

Servando INFANTE, who is. the present Action Coordinator for the

. te
e

the MRP in El Cotorro.

The oATY-MRP group that functions effectively in El Cotorro is
the Action Group, which 1s composed of former members of the
26th of July Movement that have combat experience. This group
has 12 M-3 rifles that are kept in. the town of Cuatro Caminos,
Havana Province, So far as source Inew, only one M-2 and one Me-3
were kept in El Cotorre. The MRP Action Group has five liters

of nitroglycerine,. three bombs of the patas de elefante type,

a few detonators, and two or three grenades, Hecause of the.
aifricult situation in Cuba, it is not now possible to make use

of the explosives or arms. . .

The MRP group to which source belonged collected 300 pesos month=
ly from residents of E1 Cotorro, and received 380 pesos monthly
from the Direccion Provincial of the MRP in Havana, distributing
these monies among the EY Cotorro families that had members being,
held prisoners, Jose WESA Gonzalez's wife, who lives in the

’ Poteria District of El Cotorro, is the person who distributes

De
6.

these monies. The 380 pesos monthly received from the Direccton
Provincial of the MRP in Havana were formerly delivered to source
by Antonio IZQUIERDO, who is the MRP Coordinator for the area
that includes El Cotorro, San Jose de ‘las Lajas, Guanabacoa, and
other towns the names of which source “did not recall. Whem source
left Cuba on -24 August 1962, Carlos VICHOT, a member of the MRP
Action Group who lives in the Cruz Verde District of El Cotorro,
was charged with delivering the money to Jose MESA Gonz&lez's

wife. .
The MRP maintains contact with the 30th of November Movement.

When source left Cuba, both PAGES (fnu), who had been the 30th

of November Movement's Municipal Coordinator in .El Cctorro and -

had worked as an accountant in the bank of San Jose de las Lajas,
and Pedro NUNEZ Camargo, who had been the. Action Coordinator for
the MRP,. had sought asylum at the Brazilian EBnbassy.. NUNEZ Camargo -
onee threw live phosphorus into the La Reguladora Bar in El Cotorro;
the resulting fire wes rapidly extinguished.

Hector HERNANDEZ, who lives on calle 221, El Cotorro, was a member
of the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano. : .

Source identified the following anti-Communist Government employees:

ONILL, Police Chief of El Cotorro, who lives in the La America

District of El Cotorro; Lazaro CRUZ, nicknamed El Chino L[the

EO i a i ee a ee)

 
 

 

 
 

ry

 

 

   
 

e

 

PCREIGN DISSEM,

 

FIELD INFORMATION: REPORT

COUNTRY: - Cuba

REPORT NO: CsuJuere

SUBJECT: General’ Information on DATE OF INFO: April~August 1962

Cuba,

:

PLACE AcquireD: (Spain, Nadria)

DATE ACQUIRED: 3 October, 1962
DATE OF REPORT: 10 October, 1962 .

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:

“CC-1215, a Cuban refugee (F) who
24 Auguat 1962 and arrived in

Counterrevolutionary Activities

The MRP group in El Coterro ha

dy the national MAP organization, The MRP ‘sells“bonds and distribytes - .. -
the proceeds among the families of Prisoners, The only contact the. _

' Bl Cotorro MRP has with Cuban

2, The Frente Unido Escanbray (Es
El. Cotorro,. 3 principal miss

left Cuba on board the SATRUSTEQUI
Barcelona on 13 September 1962 .--Source

Qn eh Augu
{\a8 ‘a Fesident of El Cotorro, Havana, and a member of the El votorro
. . Me tig .

 

exiles 1s vie letters,

cambray United: Front) also exists in
dons are the shipment of medicines -to

’ Bscambray and the sale of clandestine bonds,

‘3. The early August 1962, "the co
ef the arma in El ‘Coterro.

unterrevolution" was requisitioning most

4, Persons arriving from the Cienaga de Zapata in early August 1962
informed source or tke existence of armed Insurrect tonists in that

area who fire on buses,

5. Several buses have been turned
a bus that makes -a run, fron Gu

Prisoners

6. Jese Mesa Gonzalez, former Con
Cotorro, Havana, who is now se

 

SENET TES
NO FORE

nel [ree “PQ

in the Nueva Paz area and, in late June,
ines to Plays decEF Rosario was burned,

istonado (Commissioner 2) of El.
rving a nine-year Sentence on the Isle

Depessey :

   

 

  

IGN DISSEM,

 

 

 

 
 

{toetoisz-0250]

 

apd

“RATELCE. awa: 10 October 1962

CC+1215, Jose AL acd Blanco atl tadd:

too:
oer:

a) w

  

MITROSWMED

MAR Z 01953

 
     

  

| Boc. memo SER.

CRITI AL AND EMO? cer ae :
Les At

 

 

 
 

Frou: £Spain, Madrid . . cme ELT 8
gcc pe or: [paul dD, ee 4 T07S

      
 
    
 
  

rotpen qraneey red:

NYSPOT IT IAD g :
‘y comrto; | Wash = 4
Files « 2

 

OPTRVTARAL TATA, 6°

 

’ General Information on. Cuba

1, The information contained in the attached report was obtaired -
roca rrogation of. souree on board the SATRUSTEGUI by 2

loca Cys epresentative.
2. Source identified the following ERP_ (Movimiento Revoluetonarto
del Pueblo). personne}. in El Cotorro, Havana:
So FOREPIEH Reve Maen oe toe Bee
Tuie®anpos, Piast OE Municipal Coordinster in El Govern. who
C lives jondInde endencis Street, nex

Ramorg‘JTHENEZ Montes inés; {actin Seorelary of the MRP(in var
BSA “Gonzalez. JAMBNEZ ives “in the Las

       
 
 
 
 

replacing Jose*S

_&.iAs Brisas District, sadvaed avae.
a

A person known. by the nickname of "canaguersto," who lives’ in the |
La Magdalena District. ; .

Ay. Serer
en. Son Pa
«KF ehACGE ee oe

SMa ae
Bu

 
     

 

Wepre ene
 

a,

«. COMF :
e NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 «

‘of Pines, was_a member of the 26th of July Novement and, became a

Captain in Castro's Army, He joined the sounterrevuJution and was

“arrested in El Cotorro.on 17 April 1962; Mesa wac the first coordinator
that the MRP had, and he. had a lot of contacts in Santa Cruz del Norte,

Jaruco, Guines, San Jose de las Lajas, ete, that dated from the struge
gle against Batista, .

Military

“9,

‘Cuba on 24 August 1962,

Until June i962, Western Army Headquarters was losated in the former
Colerio de ia Salle, on Santa Maria del Rosario, El Cotorro,. Western
Trny Headquarters hag been moved, and this Colegio is now occupied
by a battalion (about 1,006 men). Two or’ three quad-mount antiatreraft
guns.are visible. Source gaw this installation shortly before he left

Three large barracks with a total capacity of about 2,000 men (two
battalions) are located on the El Berro Highway, in Loma de Tierra,
El Cotorro, Havana. Two quad-nount antiaircraft guns are visible,

> his—-inetallation shortly-before-he-left Cuda, _

Battalion No, 121 is éamped if the hills of the fines logeted at about |
kilometer number one on the Santa Maria del Rosario Highway. This highe
way 1s only two kilometers ‘in length, and the abovement toned fincg is

located at the mid-point. Battalion No, 121 cannot be observed from’ the

. highway,

+ A Linca said to contain a miesile installatian is located on the high

way that runs from Sante Maria del Rosario to the Via Monumental. No
Cuban 19 permitted to enter this finca. Mtlitiamen guard only the

surrounding area. -

Economic

il.

‘Havana, source met two Czechor ovak technicians,

one of which was named
ctly. Kral was -in Cuba to negotiate the
Hydroelectric Plant. The Second Czech»

Last summer, on Flava El vezano,; which is next to Santa Marta del Mar,

Kral and spoke Spanish perfe
construction of the Hanabanilia

oslovak was the engineer who would import the machinery and begin to

12.

: formerly cost one peso now ‘costs ten p

install ‘it,

Products such as eggs, pork, and beef are not on sale at the markets
but can be bought on the blac market at the following prices: one egg
costa between .15 and .17 pesos, pork costs 2.20 pesos 1b., and beet

costs between 1,20 and 1,725 Pesos/lb. An automobile fan belt that °
esos on the black. market,

NO FOREIGN DISSEM,

 

 
 

rs

    

NO FOREIGN DISSEM, .
Tribunals .

13, The military tribunals are subordinate to the Ministry of the oo
interior. The civil courts are still subordinate to the Ministry of

Justice,:

Absenteeism - . , -
14. Eduardo Coto, a friend of source's who worked in the pay-roll depart~

ment at US Rubber Keds in El Cotorro, told source that, on occasion,
40 or 50 doctors! certificates were presented weekly to attest to ille
ness. A doctor's certificate must be sent 1f£ one cannot go to work,

“Political

15. JUCEI offices in El Cotorro are located in the Cotorro Town Hall located
-on the Calle de la Republica, Santa Maria del Rosario, oo

16, ORI offices in El. Cotorro are located on the Calle de la Independencia,
Carretera Central, next to the Firehouse. The ORIs are coordinated
with the Defense Committees; and one of their missions 1s to provide
the G-2 with information. In El Cotorro, G2 personnel who desire
information do not visit the - police stations, but rather thé above-

mentioned ORI offices.

“17. In El Cotorro, the ORI is composed almost entirely of PSP. members,

18, Immediately after Anibal Escalante was, deposed, Francisco Perez
(known as “Pancho"), who was the ORI Coordinator in El Cotorro, was
replaced.: Perez now lives in the Las Brisas District of El Cotorro,.

19. The President of the Defense Committee located on Paz Street and 10th
of October, El Cotorro, is known as: "Mongo." Mongo's family formerly
supported Batista, and now supports the Castro regime. In source's

' opinion, they are opportuniats. They are Negroes and “bad people.”

NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

 

 
