74-0000

Bo ~ , GET, ot

¥S~1247-74

SUBIECT: I. Irving Davidson ae

e@. In view of this fact, Morgan offered the opinion “4
that from a legiatical poiat of view it would be advantageous
.t@ purchase the entire 25 uillfon rounds from Davidson (at
&@ cost he estimated to be in tha range of $3,125,000.00).
This would provide the Agency with a five-year supply and
eliminate the necesaity for Ainsley running the security
gauntlet every few months te replenish the inventory.

 

feputation and his close comection with columist Jack
dnderson, 12 was generally agreed that hiu utilisation
would be risky in the extrezs.

i
4. Hevertheless, because of Davidson's unsavory | ,
}

2, Afneley euccested ther we run the problem by his bess, ? |
Michal Malanick, Cafef, Office of Logistics. Accordingly we net with in
Melantek and his Deputy, James KeDonald, After @ thorough rehash of the .
matter, it was agreed that: .

@. Morgea will confer with SOG and deteraine
the feasibility of. taking the entire 25 nfiilion rounds.

4 . b. Ainsley and Morgen will cheek with their

legitieste ares dealers and see if any of them have
ever heard of Davidson. If so, one of them will
approach hin and ask (inoocently) if he knows of
euy 7.62 ammo available.

e. There is ales a possibility that one of
yt moa Afasley's regnler contacts wight have sone idea as
7 7 te who Dsvideon's source is. Im that case the source
: - will be approached directly and Davidson will be cut
(vce tin ns f= s+ gg 9€ the pattern

d. BC will fostruct the Washington Field Office
te tell Devideon that there is no CIA interest in this
eeqeisition and bow out of this affair.

est Woe"

 eRicT

 

 

 
   

 

   

104-10216-10100
tegerding the subject ead then calied Billy Morgen and asked him to .
- Join us. Morgan as Chief, Operations Support Branch, Supply Divistoa/OL,
has the direct responsibility of funding for, reveiving, and storing
items of the type that Davidson is seeking to peddle. After Morgan

é
t
| oe, . Jb C2
P F3~1247-74 .
ope . 31 July 1974
I
; MEMORANDUM POR THE RECORD
. SUBJECT: 1. Irving Davidson
EEA RSEEEEE aE ?
7 . 1. A 1000 houre on 31 July 1974, in compliance with inetruetions
vead the Washington memo, a long discussion ensued from which tha
following points emerged:

se epernemeneecsoen

from Mr. Halpern, I mot with Niel Ainsley, Chief, Covert Procurezent/OL,
relative to the Davideon matter. Ainsley read the Washington FO memo
@ Per instructions from Mr. Colby, the CIA is
eurrently engaged in a dialogue vith the DoD to
deteraizne the mutual responsibilities of the CIA and
the DoD in future paramilitary operations, One of the
moat important aspects of this matter is logistical
support. Although chia hae not yet been settled, the
, @ssumption is that the CIA will continue to bear the
major responsibility for procuring Soviet, Bloc, and
PRC arms and aumo to support paramilitary ops. This

hes never been a uission of the three military services
and they bsve no capability for this type of acquisitica.

. (the p al CIA rep in these discussions with the
aw eel J Bed fe Deputy Chief, $0G.)

b. The CIA inventory of 7.62 Soviet ammo has
been sericusly depleted in the past year and, for
several woaths, Afasley has been seeking to procure
up to 4 million rounds through differeut sources
without success. Each attempt to secure ammo involves
Goum security rick.

  
 

 

RB 2 DMPpET CL BY 010650

SCOHET

 
