74-0000

 

t
i

ww wees us

-4. In-October ‘1967 the DC? turned Nosenko's case over
to the Office of ‘Security for final resolution, and at the
same time the FBI began a review of the information it had
obtained from Nosenko. The results of these two very thorough
investigations were set forth in a memorandum from the Office
of Security dated 1 October 1968 and one from the FBI dated
20 September 1968, both of which concluded that Nosenko was
who he claimed-.to be and was a bona fide defector. Since
that time this has been and is the position of CIA.

S. Nosenko-was probably the most valuable source of
counterintelligence-information that the US Government has
ever-had,- and the enormous scope and value of his information
attest conclusively to his bona fides as a defector. He
identified.some-2,000 KGB officers and 300 Soviets who were
acting as KGB agents. . He provided information on some 238
Americans in whom the KGB had displayed some interest, including
many who had been recruited. For example, one of his identi-
fications’ led-to.the trial and a sentence of 25 years for US
Army-Sergeant Robert Lee Johnson. Nosenko also provided infor-
mation on some 200 foreign nationals in 36 countries in whom
the KGB had taken an active ‘interest, and the friendly foreign

“governments with which we shared this informaticn were able to

neutralize a number of important KGB agents as a result. For
example, the British were able on the basis of Nosenko's infor-
mation to identify William John Vassall, a high Admiralty
official, as a KGB agent and sentence him to 18-years.

 
 

 

  

104-40210-10014
ene
‘

‘“e * =) . weuited . tf)

SUBJECT: The Bona Fides of Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko-  . :

1. KGB officer Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko first. contacted
CIA in, Geneva-in—June- 1962. —Over.the- course-of- five: meetings
he ‘provided sufficient’ information-to enable the two officers
from CIA's~Soviet~Russia Division who met him to establish
that-~he-was~a~bona" fide’ source. ‘The major_information-furnished
by-hirr at~that™time was~the identification of -a US code tech-
nician.who~had--been-recruited by the: KGB, and -the- identification
ofthe location of-KGB-microphones in the US. Embassy in Moscow, -
52-o0f which were later “found. . .

2. When CIA's “Counterintelligence Staff was inforned
o£ -Nosenko!s. 1952 “approach;-its management regarded this news
within the context of what they had-been-hearing-from.a kG
defector whom they were-then debriefing, Anatoliy Mikhaylovich
Golitsyn. Golitsyn, who had defected in December 1961, was. a
counterintelligence officer who was-obsessed-with. the. subj ect
of KGB ‘deception operations: Even though.Golitsyn was diag-
nosed“in early 1962 as a "paranoid personality," the-CI Staff
had-complete. faith in the validity of his theories and analyses.

_ A-sanitized version.o£f Nosenko's information was-therefore

shown to Golitsyn; who ‘flatly concluded that Nosenko was acting
under-KGB control. --The CI Staff accepted Golitsyn's analysis
and persuaded~ ‘the-management of SR Division also to accept it.

“3. By..the time Nosenko was again heard from, in January _
1964, -again-in Geneva, the management of SR Division and CI
tafé was firmly committed to the position that Nosenko was

part of a KGB deception. operation. Nosenko- actually. defected

; on“4~February~1964,/

e
