13-00000

 

 

No. 42, Mexico City, Telephone 14-10-31. In 1960, he visited Cuba where
he remained for two days and later went to Petersburg, Florida where he
got a job as a decorater.. Approximately one year ago, he visited an art
exposition at Tokie Street, No. 63, in Mexico City. He is a irlend of
General Jose De Jesus Clark FLORES, for whom he has done decorating
jobs in Tijuana, Lower California and with whom he went on his trip to
Russia last year, staying for seven days In that country. His monthly
income fluctuates between 5000, 60 and 6000.00 pesos. With respect to
his presence at Heredote Street No. 14, Dept. 7, he indleated that he Ilved
in that place with his wife. Besides the presence of Silvia Tirade De
DURAN and Horacio DUR AN Navarro in his home, he stated that his wife
is a friend of the other persons and teday they were only visiting them.

He stated that he does not know Lee Harvey OSWALD, the accused
assasain of the President of the United States.

14. Betty Serrates de DURAN expressed that ahe Is originally from
Honduras hes been In Mexico ten years, having the status of a
resident bmmigrant. She ts 33 years old and has attended a secretarial
courge In Kentucky, U.S.A. She dees not belong to any political party nor
dees she have leftist ideas. With respect te her presence at Herodoto St.
No, 14-7, she stated that she lives there with her husband Ruben DURAN
Navarro. Firally, she stated that she does not know Lee Harvey OSWALD,
accused assassin of the President of the United States.

15. Lidia DURAN Navarre Vdg De Flores stated she le originally
from Chihuahua, Chihuahua; she is £5 years old, lives at Luz Savinon St.
No, 120-2, and works at the Tourist Departinent and at the Mexican
Sperts Confederation. She indicated she ls not militant in any political
party nor has any determined Ideology. With respect to her presence at
Herodste St. No. 14-7, she stated that she was visiting her brother and
her alstor-in-law, Ruben DURAN Navarro and Betty SERRATOS, who live
in that Department.

16, Agata ResenoGARCIA stated che le originally from this
capital (Mexice City), Her ta at Rivera St. No. 63, Colonia Las
Aguilas, Mexico City, Telephone No. 48-53-53; that she studied
dramatic art with Seki Sano, Luis Del Llano and Andres Soler and said she
has portrayed secondary roles in the movies and acted as divector of
Teatro Infantil. Likewise she stated she ig not militant nor has ever been
in political partles nor does ahe have a leftist ideology. With reapect to
her presence at Heredoto St. No. 14-7, she stated that it ig due to her
frlendahip with Ruben DURAN Navarro and his wife Betty SERRATOS and
that ahe visite them frequently as occurred on this date. She sald she did

-5- 2e/- 2 PIE
13-00000

 

not know Lee Harvey OSWALD accused assassin of the President of the
United States of North America.

17. Barbara Ann BLISS stated that she has heen a tourist for
eight years, having renewed her documentation five months ago; her
home is at Bahia De Magdalena No. 125, Telephone No. 45-13-41, for
which she paya a menthly rent of 1500.00 pases. She ts divorced and
recelved 800.00 dollars monthly from a company in Washington
which administers her father's estate and of which she holds the stock.
She said she has been married to Jusn Esquivel, Costa Rican, whose

. mother was Mexican and whe presently resides In the United States.

She lived In Cuba for three yeara since her father, Alonso BLISS,

was the awner of a sugar plantation in Trinidad and the last time she
was In Cuba was three years ago, but only in transit on a trip to Miami,
Florida.

18, She stated she maintalne correspondence with a Cuban who
sends her information which she passes to her father. With respect
‘to her father, she said that he has been In Mexico for two weeks,
staying at the Hotel Park Villa, S A., located at Gomes Pedraza St.
No. 62, Mexico City, in which he has stayed for ten days. His home
is at 2585 South Bashore Drive, Coconut Grove, Miami, Florida; he
dees not belong to any group nor has any relations with the Cubans.

19. Regarding her presence at Herodoto St. No. 14-7, she in-
dicated thie arose from three months ago, in the home of Carmen FINO.
She met Betty SERRATOS, with whom she has a friendship and has
visited in Beatty's hame on four other occasions even though Betty her-
self visits hex frequently because beth are interested in hearing musical
records. She also stated she met Silvie Tizade De DURAN at a concert
but la not her friend. Finally, ehe sald she does not know Lee Harvey
OSWALD, accused assassin of the President of the United States.

20. Charles E. BENTLEY atated he is a tourist, 27 years old,
bas been im the country for three months and ts living at Palermo St.
Ne. 9, Colonia Hipodromo, Mexico City, and that he is employed by
Campania Ganadera De Sonera, In the United States he worked tn
Minneapolis as an assistant manager of business and from 1954 to 1957
served in the U.S. Navy, He Indicated that he does not belong to any
political party nor does he profess leftist ideas. He asserted that he
does not knew Lee Harvey OSWALD, accused assassin of the President
of the United States and that he learned of the death from the News-
paper. He declared he does not have any connections with the Cubans
and indicated that if he soon did not find employment in Mexico, he would

~6=
13-00000

 

 

10. With respect to the attempt on President Kennedy, when she
heard the news she became depressed and thought that the author wae
some maniac and when she knew that it was an element of "The Fair
Play for Cuba", she did not bdieve it at first. During President Kennedy's
visit to Mexico, she did not attend any of the functions that were held in
his honor and did not otherwise participate, In talking with her husband
when they learned of the assasaination she sald it could have been done by
radicals and when Lee Harvey OSWALD entered Into the discussion, she
recognized him as the same person that had come to the Cuban Consulate
about two months previous to request a transit visa to Russia.

11. She remembered his name because of his unusual characteristica
and the circumstances of his visit L.e., he was married to a Russian and
sald he belonged to the "Falr Play for Cuba't; that she checked his data In
the Consulate's archives and she was then sure that it waa the same person.
That he ta blond, short, poorly dressed, that his face gets red when he
talks; that he was denled a visa because the Consul told him that In order
to obtain one he would first need a visa from the Russian Consulate and this
procedure would take about four months and urged OSWALD to leave
Mexico. OSWALD became angry and for this reason she had to call the
Consul with whom he had an argument. That OSWALD was told that the
aid which could be given to him was to advise him to go to the Russian Con-
sulate. The Consul then spoke by telephone to the person in charge of that
office, and was informed that the case would have to be referred to Moscow
and that there would be a four month delay. That in the afternoon of the
same day Lee Harvey OSWALD returned to the Cuban Consulate and that
she confirmed that he would only be given a visa when he had one fram the |
Russian Consulate giving him, on a plece of paper, her name Silvia DURAN
with the office telephone number but that OSWALD was not given her address
since he had no reason to have it. That it was not her place te telephone
the Russian Consulate and [ff she did it was in an official form and to help
Lee OSWALD In the interest of performing her duties. That if she gave
him her telephone number it was so that he could later ask tf the visa had
been obtained, but he never called again. ,

12. it should be mentioned that in the home at which the DURANS
were detained, Herodoto No, 14, Dept. "A", houge of the brother-in-law
of Silvia DURAN, Ruben DURAN Navarro, the persons that were visiting

cee time ntsc jek erences ES

_this home were detained; thelr antecedents follow:

13. Ruben DURAN Navarro stated he is originally from Los Angeles,
California, married to Betty SERRATOS, 38 years old, awaiting Mexican
citizenship. His job is a decorator and is employed with his brother
Horacio DURAN Navarro in an office that the latter has at Veracruz Street

ade
13-00000

 

never seen or known Lee Harvey OSWALD personally and that in
December 1961, he made a trlp to Cuba accompanied by his wife.
They pald for their own tickets.

ae KK sea Tieado De DURAN stated she ls Mexican by birth, 26

years old, married, no religion, employed, addreas in Dept. 3, house
no. 143 Constituyentes, Mexico City; that she has been married to
Horacio DURAN Navarro since 5 No vember 1958 and that they have a
daughtsr: named Patricla three and one-half years old; that In July or
August of 1961, she was offered employment as coordinator at the .
Mexican-Cuban Inatitute of Cultural Relations, then headed by Lic.
Agustin Cue CANOVAS. That since that time she had frequently visited
officers of the Guban Embassy, having personal friendship with
Ambassador PORTUONDO, the cultural attaches Teresa PROENZA and
Luis ALVERU as well as with other employees. Her contacts were
principally with Marlcarmen OLAVARRI, Secretary to Consul Euseblo
AZCUE, @ Spaniard and relative of AZCUE, and who received 500.00
pesos monthly.

7. In December 1961 she and her husband made a trip to Havana
by plane. They pald for thelr own tickets, but all other expenses of
their visit to all the Islands were pald by the Cuban Institute of Frlend-
ehip with the Peoples (1.C. A. P.}, and the Cultural House.

‘8. She did not know her husband's salary aince his income ts
very irregular ~ his only fixed Income is from the school, 1200.00 pesos
monthly. She as well as her husband have automobiles.

9. She sympathized with the Cuban movement since its beginning;
that ehe wae a coordinator of the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural
Relationa since July or August 1961 and that she studied for the career
of an English-Spanish secretary at the Escuela Bancaria. She mastered
English and knows some French and is atudying Philosophy. She haz a
leftist ideology, by conviction, and is in accord with communism, but
does not belong to any political group nor has she participated in meetings
or acts of this nature. That officers of the Cuban Embasay, including
the Consul, have been in her home; that she knowa almost all the principal
leftiets In Mexice without being a friend of them; that except for one visit
to Brownesvilie, Texaa, she has not been In the United States.
13-00000

 

  

TRANSLATION

  

oo. MIGRS:
Results of the Interr ilvia Tirado De DURAN (Silvia DURAN),
her husband, Horacio DURAN Navarro et al, Immediately Following Their
Detainment on 23 November 1963.

With regard to the assassination of the President of the United States,
John F. Kennedy, it was learned that Lee Harvey OSWALD had been in
Mexico previously and accordingly this investigation was undertaken with
the following results:

Lee Harvey OSWALD was in fact in Mexico entering through
Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas. On 26 September 1963 as a tourist from New
Orleans and leaving through this same port of entry on 3 October 1963.

It was confirmed that he had come to Mexico to obtain a visa
from the Cuban Embagay to transit Cuba enroute te Moscow.

In this connection he made contact with Silvia Tirado De DURAN,
Mexican, (Silvia DURAN) with whom he met on two occasions since she is
the Consulate employee in charge of carrying out the necessary procedures
for this type of visa and filling out the cards with data about the requester,
an essential requirement to obtain a Cuban visa.

By direction from her, he contacted the Russian Consulate for
the same purpose. On learning that Silvia DURAN has been one of the
contacts Lee Harvey OSWALD made in Mexico, thie woman and her husband,
Horacio DURAN Navarro, were detained for interrogation. They made the
following declarations:

1. Horacio DURAN Navarro: Mexican by birth, the son of a
Chilean father and Mexican mother. He said that he is an industrial
designer, having received his degree at the Escuela Nacional De Artes
Plasticas. He works for U.N.A.M. receiving a salary of 1400.00 pesos
monthly, 40 years old, no religion, married, address Constituyentes 143,
Dept. 3, Mexico City.. He lived in Los Angeles, California for the first
eight years of his life coming to this capital (Mexico City) with his parents
Rufino DURAN and Lidia Navarro De DURAN. Later they went to live in
Santiago, Chile where they remained for one and one-half years. He

returned to Mexico with his brother Ruben, his sister Lydia and his mother
came later.

US COPY

ATT. | te: XAAZ-22L7ISF OY LOW DITA
13-00000

 

2. He entered the Escuela Nacional De Agricultura De Chapingo,
where he studied agricultural engineering for flve years and as such
had practiced at the Academia De San Carlos; he chose to continue to
study this art, which served as a base for specializing In Industrial
design which he now practices, being head of that subject at the Escuela
De Artes Plasticas De La U.N, A.M,, dedicating his free tlme to private
work as a designer, for which he obtains an Income of approximately
5000.00 pesos monthly.

3. In 1950 he married Lucille DEJARDIN, French, and they have
one son named Paul DURAN Dejardin, who ts new ten years old, The
marriage lasted about six years after which he was divorced on
5 November 1958,

4. He then married his present wife Silvia DURAN by whom a
child was born, a daughter named Patricia age three and one-half years.
When he met his present wife she was working as a secretary at Galeria
Porteo and she later began to meet other people, among them Profeasar
Agustin Cue CANOVAS, the cultural attaches of the Cuban Embassy and
ethers. She has served as coordinator of the Mexican-Cubana Institute
of Cultural Relations, Jose MARTI, and for the last four months has
worked for Consul Euseblo AZCUE and now with MIRABAL receiving a
monthly salary of 1500.00 pesos. He admitted that hie ideology is
leftist and that he Is sympathetic to the Cuban revolution giving his as
a reason why he permitted his wife to engage In the activities which it
promotec.

5. He stated that in talking to his wife about the assassination of
President Kennedy she recognized the name of the accused Lee Harvey
OSWALD and immediately sald that she thought that she had dealt with
the same Individual who In the last days of September or first days of
October had been in the Cuban Consulate requesting a visa for Cuba in
transit to Russia. That she personally attended to him and gave directions
regarding the visa request but indicating that It was necesearyto first
have a visa from the Russian Consulate and that he should send his request
to the Ministerio De Relaciones De Cuba which probably would take
several days. OSWALD became very annoyed and Silvia called Censul
AZCUE, with whom OSWALD had a heated argument. He stated that he had

~-2—
eee” Commission No. LG

ae

A a , . CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ‘AGENCY :
“ WASHINGTON,.D.C. 20505 -

VED LEASE 19 21 FEB 1964
CIA HISTO) 92
STORICAL REVIEW ProgRay 4
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
SUBJECT: Translations of Interrogation

.. Reports of Silvia DURAN

This is responsive to numbered paragraph two, in your
letter to this Agency dated February 10, 1964 and is further
to my reply of February 19, 1964.

; There are attached translations, from the Spanish, “of :
the results of interrogations of Silvia DURAN and her
husband in Mexico City during the period 23 to 28 November
1963.

These interrogations were conducted by the Mexican
police in the course of their follow-up of the OSWALD case
4 after the assassination. {These materials were given to us 7
: by the Mexican police agency that performed the interrogation, |

Ardour

Richard Helms .
Deputy Director for Plans

an Attachments - 2

 

    
104-10021-10093

 

 
    

“ROUTING AN

SUBJECT: “{Optional) 9
~ EXTENSION NO.

| FROM:

 

A A <3
re ne i An dl
2. 2

[TOs (Officer designation, room ned
{ : sean! number, | wre | OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each somment to show from whom
: INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

 
      
 

'f building)
RECEIVED | FORWARDED

    

MICROFILMED }

AUG 2 0 1965
b/k weal oats

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

8-5/ Ovignaals of abtachme cts

fleck 2a DURAN'S 20h. T have
ZRA te shew thet they. —
have been cect ts Com ss

 

 

 

  
 

Bocument Number 4 { > fy pe

. heed PA
far FOIA Review om , OTe ABSTRACT DC} INDEX
Ql eener ‘JUN + fr.

 

  

 

 

  

 

2OI-ZIIQEF.
om 610 “ENE Gx] SECRET [] CONFIDENTIAL [] INTERNAL = [7] UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

eben ot Py tem amgpnahien ites nema ere ee
THIS. NOTE: CONCERNS DOCUMENT XAAZ- 22959, naten QUFe'OY
{atso KNOWN AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES AS DOCUMENT # ULLUB Comsisrion Dorf 426).

a THE ATTACHED COPY OF THIS DOCUMENT SHOWS THE SEGMENT(S). WHICH REMAINS

CLASSIFIED AND HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC.

 

 
13-00000

2 ATTS, b/w GS GO

 

   

MICROFILMED

aula 2 9 1965

iCRO. SER,

 
   
 

 

    

pes. wi

CIA EISTORICAL prt i PROGRAM

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
Q0\~ 746720)

SUBJECT: * Translations’ of Interro ation _
Reporte of Sllv BN as “Transat ted

te Warren C. mALTS te ye

This is responsive te numbered ppragraph two, in your
letter to this Agency dated February 10, 1964 and Is further
to my reply of February 19, 1964.

There are attached translations, {rom the Spanizh, of
the results of interrogations of Silvia DURAN and her
husband in Mexico City during the perlod 23 to 28 November
1963,

These interrogations were conducted by the Mexican
police in the course of their follow-up of the OSWALD case
after the assassination. These materials were given to us
by the Mexican police agency that performed the laterrogatlon.

Document vinta S94 -DAZ

for FOIA Review og SUN 1976

ee aD

Wired) Rohe Eolas
Richard Helms
Deputy Director for Flans

asa at
Attachments - 2

Distribution:
Original & 2 - Addressee w/atts
2 --DDP w/atts (one set atts. only)-
1 - C/CI w/atts
~ Chief, CI/R&A w/atts
1 ~ Chief, CI/SIG w/atts
1 - Chief, WH/3 w/atts

CI:RGRocca/dc (attachments are copies of DIR 85758 of 29 Nov. '63
and CSCI 3/209 482, of 10. Jan 64)...

  
   

a 201 - 2ST 243
2) REEY

 
