 

lu cagpiints wikapreceble Goverumene reguistiaza og according ta tha
Matagilerss policies of yous Gaver Secility, wRictewver is direcied by the
Uovrern neat,

~

& Rapirnset, be secognised thai your talizre to ageouns

fay or refund any oi.065 Soytmted you Rermesdey eiall ertiiie the Goverms

mont or yo:.r cover facility of witkiwle tha ¢otsl agent of suck iadablte

edusea o7 any portica ssereof from eay mozice dve you wader tha forme
of this costrect tm such esesaer ae it deans Bppicpriate.

3. Bonefites (a) You afll be aatitied te deal and dissbility
Dunoflis equal to teoee authorised wader the Fedaral Exployoas? Coms
panseti.a Act, aa aracaded. Claims by you, your heirs, ox logzl repiee
sentatives uier thie paragrapA will be processed by this srganiantioa
ts secordance with te precedares (a sack manse7 as mol ts bnpair security. .

te) Yes will bs eatitied te ths continence. ef
pay aad aliowsnces ln a maener ebmilag te that set beri ts the Missing
Paraome Act ($0 U.8.G.Asy App. 2661-1615).

de) Tha United States Covaram ent will withe
hold feum the compansation daa pou mmedar this contract, opcial security
dodyaiisas Lx coulocmence with the Soziai Seeurity Act ef i$38, aa
araemied, snd the procederes of this organine tion farsrantty 309/54
on tha ret $4422). Fer seassas of sseurlty, al! leqelrivs coeerraing
your rulatioustip is the Seclel Soaurtty system shail bs wieta direcity
to this oygsaisstion, aid iy os eveas may aap esek prosiog bs presented
dy you ov en your beball $9 any rapresetiative of the Eorena of Old
Aga sud Surviewre imeuramsce “miges guthorized by Hus veginizatioes.

(6) You will be extitled to elck asd amaual
leave eqenl te and surfeed te [ho same gulas aad veguls*!etys cppiicable
to Govaraemant eppolnted empleyess. Amaval leave may only be taken
St times and places Appraved iz advance by apprepsiats Cavrerameat
Paprecessatives.

{e) You aro borela eutherised to apply for
enrollment ne health ineurence pregeam bez cartam seloated Comtrast
Ke slopess of thie er graisatlen, subject to all the teams and eoaditicns
Of tinS prograc. HM accsated, thie organization bs presanily auhorined
te boy a portion ef tha premiam opat, ya will bear the remezioder,
Your fissoctal ceatriostian will bo affediud elthor Sy payroll Seduction
aor by Glrect renltmase af pariedie Latcrvals te he egtepiteded by thie
orghalzatlos,

tt) You are hereia euterited boosting asels-
taece le coafsrmases with tad sudiecd ty tha poligled af tla ey ganador.
 

104-10180-10216

 

” TL

Sr. Pater J. Digervens

Dear Mr. Digervesas

Noferencea is made te pour contract with tha Valied Santee
Geverai.ant, ag represzated by the Contracting Off-ear, effactive
U$ Jaty 1941. Bard contract is hereiz terminated by mstail consent
ef the partioa thereto, and in leu thereof tae foliowinyg agreement is
substituted.

The Untted States Goverament, a3 repzeaented by the Care
tracting Offices, hereby contracts with youad a Canceset Employee.
fer the use of your cervices amd the performance ef dete of a canfle -.
dential mature cader the following terme and eunditiens: | mo:

1. Commpessaticn, Ie fall consideration for the uae of your
eervices and the perfurmance of speeified confidentiat duties you will
be compensated In an amaans caleulated ag thy rate of $9400 per anaura.
fa sdditlen, pouare herein authorised Proecaiwa Pay le lise of overtime
tm cosformance with and subject ta the gailcios of thie orgaclastiow,
Préeently satd Premiuaa Pay le oa amosnt equal to fiftees par cent (15%)
of ta aso pay foe 4 CS~7 goverainant omployns. Paymests will be
sande eg requested by you ia writiag in an aporeved manser, Montes
paid yea directly or getranised by tks Gowrament sudsy thle paragraph
eonetitets facome for Fadarsl tax vuzpooses. You will te advinal ac oo
the methsd to he follawed in resorting bad payiag euch tras, -Ths mathod
as well ap the procedaves used by thle oz qatiza lion S implemeny ite

‘tax reporting gesponsibilitios will be based primarily apes covsr and

security requirements. Untesa preciuded by such requirements, tame
will be withbeld therefrom and eubmittad by thie organisation,

a. Trave'. You will be advanced or reimbureed funds foxy
travel and trancportetion erpoutes for you, yout éeacadenis and your
hoasohold effects ts and frem your domestic permsncut port of serizement

‘hereunder, and for pou alaza for anthorised operational srarvel, You

muy bs extitied $0 por diam ia Hew of sabstetence tu the course of all
travel performed hereundsy and, whon avthorived, for you atone while
on temporary duty away from your permsasct peel of saeligemens. AU.
travel, transportatios sad par diem provided for under this pacegraph
aati be properly authockasc, sad expenses iacarred Pareuadar sre
sadjict bo payment az! aeccasting La compliaace with sapHcad'e Goveipe
ment regginticae er according to the astasbehed nolicies af pour caver
facility, wSishewar is directed by ths Geveznment.

$. Operatiozsl Xrperse:, You will be alvanced or rekwbarced
fando for naceveary cpezeiial gaseaves inciucing, det 206 limtied to,
emertisinrant ead the purchaes of waformeiice, 64 spactiically approved
by the Coversment. Bark tasds will be ecbact i paynsect aml tecountiag

 
 

Shawl eeatiats Fade eg YEE fu tat) eecet ved

 

‘fry oF thre ey your oover Bclivtties gra the prosarty ef tie v. b.

Cover mon. “Procedarahy, sack emolemedia wiii we efiset eg eines
Boyccats day pou agder thle agreement and aya acknowledged to be payee ant
by the Geyeracient bute sator aed for Veceral tacocre tas petpasga.
iCesvar emaoic mente dsceed chose das pou ede? thie Cratract, pou will
dispose of the excese eenwunt ba ecaferaance wit Governarcial lasirec=

teas.

¥. Srecutt-n sf Ozaunonts, tf, ts the performace of cerviace
wuder (Mie ecalracts ys You Goegce the castedy of Govarmmess furda er
take title of record tu property af any nelurw whaisoever aad wherever
aituate, which property bas iu dact bees purchased wlth moniss of the
U. S. Govesament, you berady recogiled aud asknow!eigs the saleteace
of a frust relatioashs, olther eapvess or ecastructive, utd you agree
to execute whatever documents may ba required by the Goverament to aan
evidence this telatlunshtip. . “

@. Geerecy. You will be regulred te keep forever secret
this contract and all inforssasion which yos may obtain by retsoa hereof
(stiess released in writing ty the Governmect {ram auch ebtyetos),
with fall knewledga aiat viotatiovs of gach esareny may eublert pra bt erliale
QA stosecation wader the Larkcpage Laws, datod 83 Junr is4%, 9a amended,
end ether applhessle lave sad regulations.

 etryetionns Yastructions received by you from the
Guveracment are & pert Of this temtre ct and ase iseurreratead hateln,
provided grat such inetractions ate Bot Asoueistest wit tue teres
hereel.

36, Venapharined Coramitmests, Ko premises or comunit~
mrabs pertaisicg lo riguts, pFiviisges or beneilta other tan (049 axe
precaly slisvisted ta writing le tale agreenweud oF acy amenémest thereto
shall be Undsayg on tha Geveramest.

BL, Term, his contract lo effective as of 1 Septemder
1942, an@ vdail eonutinns thereafter jur a period of too  &2) years valese
ealner toxveninateds .

fa) Wyss aunty 486) dnyo' actes! netles by aither secty
Sarete, ox

3} Upea acres! actica to you ta the grudt we Puskas
ofan ielitaly required medical examination ace deters
mined uy Chis erganiastion to be wnentichctery, er

{2) Whiteet prtar eatics try fhe Cuverrmont, ta the
evnet €f@ ereach of Bala cousract Ly your violalicn of

 
 

“6

the secarity provisions keraafl ov by your othgtoles
ventering yourself aavallabla for acdeptadle aerviaa.

Subject to the availabilty of spprepriatives, this agreement may he
extended upon aviics fre the Gaveramest. da the eveat ef volaciary
terainasiog om your stet or tercalna tion fer cages by the Gevernm oa8
prier to the expiration of thie agreameat oy say renewal thereof, yom
wlil ast bo emtitied to retarn travel expeusea to your paraances place of
rasidence. Teyninatian of this agresment will act relesse y2a frem the
obligations of any security cath you aay be required te teks.

WUTED STATES GOVERNMENT

. e

ee

BY,

Contracting Oaisee ;

ACCKHPTRD:

Vater y: Si gs7 vane

WITNESS:
APPROVED: ,

PR EERE BO TUADOG NN ED IPSN St TAD EDTA
'
‘
