14-00000

 
   

- § Fev. uary 1962.

MEMORANDUM FOR: {_—=«dt

SUBJECT : Report on Antoaio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal

Aatenio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal was bora in Cuba oa 17 August 1913.
He hac ‘a master's degree in agriculture, professedly has no religion but
is a Mason. RODRIGUEZ ie married to Edith JONES, who was born in
Guba on 10 March 1917; she is, however, of Haitian erigia, being the
‘daughter ofa former Haitian Ambassador to Belgium, aad she is a devout
Episcopalian. The couple ie known to have three children: & son who was
‘Iast reported to be in Havana, Cuba; a daughter married to a man of
German birth who waa employed in the Castro land-reform organization |
‘watil hie departure for Germany in December 1961; and a son, Aatonio
RODRIGUEZ Jones, bora 24 August 1943 at Havasa, who was studying at
the Eeole francaise Internationale in Washingtoa, D.C. ia 1961. This son
has been reported to be anti-U. 5. and to have requested permission of his
father to go to Cuba or te another "socialist country to contiaue his
education. :

 

  

Antonio’ RIGUEZ ‘Jones resided in:  Washingtoa, D. Comm with Yvoane::
JONES, his” ‘punt. and sister-of the. ‘wife of Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal.
~ Mise JONES was bora 10 April 1910 at Antwerp; ‘Beigitum; she was unmarri:
and was & secretary at the Pan Americana Health Organisation. She became
a U.S. citinen in 1959, Since the Castro zegime has come to power,
‘Mias JONES is said to, have spoken quite openly for Gastro and againet the
U.S. Government.

_ RODRIGUEZ lived ia Haiti fer about sighteen yeare prior tothe =~
. commencement of his diplomatic career, haviag beea barred by the Batists
-  --. government from returning to Cuba. He became a Haitian citisea aad was
' the owner of a Port-au-Prince meat market called "El Ose Blanco". Wher
Castro assumed power in Cuba, RODRIGUEZ took over the Cubana Embasey;
in Pert-aa-Prince la January 1959 after the Batista-appolated officials had
fled te the Dominican Republic. Seon thereaiter he was aamed Ambassado:
to Haiti. ae

Following his appotatment to the diplomatic pest, RODRIGUEZ contiau:
to maintaia contact with persons in opposition to President Duvalier of Hai:

vitizen of Cuba

ee bee te

 

TY Cages on
104-10061-10053

 

° ” Chief of Station, Paris oe
info. : ; AQuaToS oo
cAN ANSE mODGKG
FROM RQ asset
Chief . OEE
ETT i 3:

‘Report on Antonio RODRIGUES Eohasabal

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
Hire DIR 39176, 1 February 1962
l. As stated in veference, attached for passage to(UNIGS /ave two copies

ef « report es RIDEURE Eohasabal; the original ef this report wie
given to (HNIGH/1F on 6 Pobruary 1962. -

2. The last paragraph ef atteskuent tadns eequnet fer the results
of the debriefing of Subject. . - -

MOETDER F. BINGEN

Attachnent:
Repert (2 es w.s.0.)

Distribatians
oo 3 om Parke

 

2 - 8/3 w/att
1 - RI w/att

- Fy

 
14-00000

 
    

In late July 1959, Haiti was invaded by « small grvap ef Cubans, suppes
as a prelude to an invasion of the aelghberiag Deminicaa Republic. The
incursion was succesefully repelled by the Haitian Goverament, which
publicly charged RODRIGUEZ with complicity in the raid. RODRIGUEZ ther:
closed the Cuban Embassy and returned to Cuba after selling hie private
property in Haiti.

While RODRIGUEZ was atill in Haiti, two attempts were made on his
life. He- accused the Trujillo regime in the Domiaican Republic aad,
indirectly, the Haitian Goverar:.ent of complicity ia those attacks.

v

Ta November 1959, RODRIGUEZ went to Guatemala ae Cuban Ambassade:
There, he appears to have aseociated freely with pro-Commuaist groups. 1.
March 1960, he was requested by the Guatemalan Goverameat to leave the

country on the ground that he was engaging in activities ialmical to the best
interests of Guatemala.

In November 1960, RODRIGUEZ reported to Karachi, Pakistan, as Cub:-
Ambassador. His wife accompanied him there and served as his chief .
secretary. During the initial months of hie tour there, hie closest relation.
in the diplomatic colony were with officials of the Belgian Embasay,

. presumably as a result of the fact that: Belgium. had represented Cuba when
there was no Cuban ‘Fepreseantative in Karachi. During 1961, however, his
“social contacts were almos exclusively with Sovi atellite and Chinese

_ Commualet diplomatic. per ae ee

   

  

In late A961, “when RODRIGUEZ apparently had: decided ¢ to defect, he
confided to am acquaintance in the diplomatic colony that he was finished
‘with politica and wanted to devote the rest of his life to agriculture. He he,
at the time to go to the Dominicans Republic or te another, unspecified Seut!:
American nation. At the time of his departure from Karachi by alr for
Germany ia early 1962, RODRIGUEZ reportedly made ealy a very limited
statement at the airport regarding his defection. The event appareatly
received very little, if any, press notice in Pakistan.

: '. Insufficient information existe at present to permit a determiaation as ¢
“the genuineness. of RODRIGUEZ's disaffection with the Castro regime. Fe:
- yeasone which have not as yet beea fully.reported, the Department of State
. dented a visa to RODRIGUEZ, apparently after he had made the decision tc
_resiga hig post in Pakistan. We understand, howevor, that, following his

 

bie,

Wie ete

| : : Citizen or Guba « Soe
: | Jf vee WA OE as WR Te UME
14-00000

  

arrival in France in January 1962, he received permission frem French
authorities to travel to and reside in Martinique. It appears thas he left ©
France on 31 January 1962 en route to Martinique. ; .

Thie service would appreciate having the results of aay debriefing of ;
RODRIGUEZ. by _} with particular refesence to the reaaons
or his esignation and his. plage for the future.

 

 

 

 
