 

+ by trade, VECIANA was with A.IE.D. in La Paz

Ld SECRET wy
3.) From the above description of Mr. XN, it is reasonably
éclear that Mr. Vors \ntenio Carles VLCIANA Blanch (201-312900).
VECTANA, an assistant bank manager and past president of a public

accountants dssociation in Havana, first contacted € i IEMs
in December 1960 when he asked the COS, at that time 03
to help in an assassination plot against Castro. VECTANA ASKS

for visas for ten relatives of the four men assigned to kill Castro,
and also requested four MI rifles with adapters for gienades plus
eight grenades. The COS did not encourage VECTANA and subsequently
checked with an Emb. officer who reported that VECIANA had made
similar "“wild-cyed" proposals to him, On 23 Noveaber 1961 the

Miami News published a report of an unsuccessful attempt by Antonio’
VECTANA to kill Castro. VECIANA reportedly had arranged to — 0
assassinate Castro and Cuban-President Osvaldo Dorticos on 5 October
in Havana, but the bazooka he was using failed to fire.

  

 

   

4, There has been no Agency relationship with VECIANA. A
POA, which was granted for his use in para-military affairs in
January 1962, expired in November 1962. VECIANA was born on
4 October 1935 in Havana. He was a member of the People's Revo-
lutionary Movement, an anti-Castro group in Cuba during 1960-61, and
was one of the founders of Alpha-66. A certified public accountant
in 1908-72. VECIANA .
was registered in ISR to the U.S. Army in November 1962 and he
was terminated without prejudice in July 1966, On 23 July 1962
VECIANA was interviewed, at. his request, by Mr. Harry Real from
the DCD New York office. VECIANA asked Real to arrange a méeting
with a senior CIA officer to discuss. Alpha-06's plans to assassinate
Castro and to request CIA's assistance (U.S.$100,000; 10,000 Cuban
pesos; 48 hand grenades). . There is no indication that this request

was ever acted upon by CIA, 9
“"S.7in April 1906 a LA Division officer, using
the alias|John Livingston) met VECIANA in New York City. he

meeting wHS arranged by a retired naval officer, James Cogswell,
who had informed “then rived that he had information of valuc

 

concerning Cuba. When frrived in New York City for the meeting,
he was introduced by Co 1 to VECEANA, He immediately launched

a discussion of the Cuban political situation and noted his strong
feeling that the enly selution was the assassination of Castro.
advised VECIANA that he was in no position to provide him with
Stance or cncourage him in an assassination attempt and was only

 

interested in gathering information which he thought was the purpose

of the meeting. VECIANA subsequently said that his roommate Felix
ZABALA, a Cubay refugee, had excellent contacts in Havana. It was
clear to However, YECIANA was attempting to use ZABALA poten-
tially to get™Agency financial support for his organization.

oe o- 4

' SECRET
z
 

104-10181-10183

 

4 21 JAN 1977 .
LA/COG/021-77 +

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

1 FROM . t Raymond’ A: Warren ’
: Chief, -Latin America Division é
SUBJECTS : A. Jack Anderson 20 January 1977 Column

t- ; Titled "CIA Tied to False Oswald Story"
fr
B. Identification of the Mr. X in the
Anderson Column

1. The attached column, citing the testimony of a Mr. x,
alleges that a CIA agent tried to link Oswald to Cuban intelli-
+ gence officers in Mexico. There is, of course, no substance to
the column's allegations. The column identifies the source as ‘
Mr. X because of attempts on his life, but subsequently gives
enough information. on Mr. X to establish his identity, i

2. According to the Anderson column, Mr. X was first met
by his CIA contact in Havana before relations with U.S./Cuba were
severed. Mr. X had helped to Organize bank accountants to em-
bezzle Cuban government funds to finance anti-Castro causes.
Mr. X was reportedly recruited by a Morris Bishop (CIA contact),
to plan an attempt on Castro's life. The plan was to fire a
bazooka from a nearby apartment building while Castro was deliver-
ing one of his marathon speeches. According to the Anderson
column, the plot was discovered by Castro's police and Mr. X
escaped to Miami. Mr. X also reportedly tried to assassinate
Castro in Chile in 1971 in league with the Venezuelan Luis Posada
Carriles, who is now being detained in Caracas for the 6 October
Cubana airline hombing: The Anderson column ends with the report
that Mr. X worked for CIA until 1973 Cor expenses, but was paid 70 CIA

$253,000 in cash by Morris Bishop when he was terminated. :
253, RETURN 159 Only

WARNING NOTICE Do N
NSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

, “SECRET : E2 IMPDET
7 CL BY 025231

. LN- M22
aw 77
wis - BILGE GE

cre . ~ ee ee “ =

  
 

SB  osrerer a
VECEANA suggested that $50,000 would be needed to get his

cavtivities of f the ground. jgplicated to VECIANA that he
would tooK anty the IAbALA matt nd would probably arrange for
SARALA to be ‘contacted in Puerto Rico.

6. There is no indication in\the file that anv Agency officer
in contact with VLCIANA ever used an alias Morris Bishop. There is
no Morris Bishop listed in true name in the DDO rolls. There was
never any contractual relationship with VECIANA and he was not
paid CIA funds.

7. On 17 January 1977 a sanitiked copy of VECIANA's 202 file
was made available to staffers from the Senate Select Committee ‘on

Intelligence.
. i
sicned
Raymond A. Warren
: Raymond A. Warren
i
1
Attachment

DHO/C/LA/COG/OPS: WJ Devine: js (9229) (21 January 1977)
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - ADDO

1 LA/COG/Chrono

b - C/LAD ‘
- 201-312966

1 - hold

ba OPS

/ = ASST. TOOCE

SECRET

 

*
 

tata

  

 

 

  

mer

— he €

tbe

 

Jack Andersog and Les Whitten

CIA Tied to False Oswald Story

The Central Intelligence Agency
askéd one of its Cuban opcratives to
help fabricate 2 storydbout Lee
Harvey Oswald during ‘the investyta-
tion of the Jobn F. Kennedy assassina-
tion, the Cuban has told congressional
investigators.

in an eartier cohana. we reported
that the same =tiness claimed be had

* met the accused assassip in Dallas in

the company of a CLA agent three
months before Kennedy was killed.

We identified the witness only as
Mr. K because of attempts on his life.
Bat we have studied his detailed. coaf-
idential statements to congressional in-
vestigators. They interviewed bim
three times. crossexamiaing kim
closely. He gave them such specific in-
formation that they concluded he was
a “credible” withess.

He told of meeung his CIA contact
in the lobby ef 2 Daliss office buriding
in August. [953 “Thes time he brougat
another guy.” recounted Mr. X. “The
guy never talked”

Str. X explained that he had trained
himself, as an underground leader, to
memortze the characteristics of people
he met. He immediately recognized
the CLA agent's companion 2fter
seeing Oswald on television following
the Kennedy assassiration.

Not long afterward. the CIA contact

ance SCif made a strange request of Mr. X.

 

the f
Ne
maarte
Ther
hat
“You
intel
said.
anes

really Nim (nat (mara met
 Wisat cear from the cunfidential

There bad been a report that Oswald
bad met a Cubaa couple in Meaico.
“You have a cousin working for Cuban
intelligence in Mexico.” the CLA agent
said. “Why doo’t you just ask him. say-
ing we'll bribe hum Wf he said no was
really him that Oswald met.”

Ie asn't clear from the confidential

 

Uh rye awe expe
tuonship “as tet

transcripts whe the CLA would want to
fabricate this evadence. Perhaps ihe
CIA could bave sought to tie Ken-
hedy’s killer to the Castro government.

In any event, whe CLA agent called
off the scheme. ané Mr. X “never did
tatk to his cousin.” according to 3 sum
‘mary of thé wteroee. It should he
stressed that the interview in n@ way
implicates the CLA m the Kennedy kill-

"he mystery wtzess first met his
CLA contact wm Havana before the
United States broke off relations with
Cuba. Mr. X had helped to orgaalze a
group of bank acccextants, who eni-
bezled funds from the Castro regime
to finance antiCastre causes.

‘The agent, who cant tie name Mor-
tis Bishop, recrenet Mr. X to plan an
attempt on Castro's Efe. Fhe plotters
planned to fire a baccoka from a
nearby apartment wice Castro was de-
liveriag one of his marathon speeches.

The plot was cisvsered by Castro's
police, and Mr. X escaped to Miami. He
continued for 2 dora more years to
work with Bishop 2 the aatiCastro
underground.

During Castro's 1572 visit to Chile,
Me. X tried again t krock bim off.
The plotters included s Venezuelan se
curtty agent, named Leis Posada Car-
Tiles, who was suypsed te provide
forged documents iayxz2 the Dlame on.
the Soviets. This plot te. fell through.

Oaly a few weeks any. Lhe same Po-
sada was indicted ia Venezuela on
murder barges in ewarection with
the crash of a Ceban xtuner.

Me. X sand he workaz foc the CLA une
tit 1973 for expenses When the rela
tionship was terminated un 197d. he

  

he +

said, Morris Bishop paid him a lump
$753.000 in cash foe past services.

Catigirt Trade—Women who take
up the world’s ol¢est profession. ike
most other career seekers who want lo
get ahead ia hfe. -are looking for
“higher income and an independeat,
exciting hfestyte.”

‘These ave the “mn2jue motivating fac-
fors” that baad women into prostitu-
tion. So concludes a scholarly study of
caligirls and streecwalkers, which -has

"just been complaed at the taxpayers’

expense.

‘Two distinguished researchers from
the University of Washington. Dr. Jen-
olfer James and Jane Meyerding. were
assigned to find out why women be-
come prostitutes Their findings will
be published shortly in a 22-page docu-
ment, which has been bootlegged tu us
before it goes to press.

Not onty do women becuine prose
tutes for the sume underlying moti es
that “some people becume lawyers.”
according te the tearned ladies from
Seattle, but the profession requires lit-
ile schooling.

For the pay, there are “virtually no
other occupstions avaladle™ to women
of modest skills, the researchers note.
They conclude that prosuruen vil
flourish as long as there is “2 cun-
sumer demand.” As they put 3. “Eco.
nomics is the pervasne theme of pros-
titution.~ .

The study alsa dispels cl wives tale
about “fallen women.” who sell sey de
cause they hate men or have abnormal
sex drives ur are forced inte the busi-
ness by “the coercios of brutal pungs.~

 

 
 

  
