74-00000

ce cee ae ee

SI Sen ET

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        

 

ng
SR/DOB/60-207  - i
‘ 20 October 1960 : ;
-- al - ee we ee -- ~ :-
:
a
. ST i
i - sRiss - ‘
8 : _. Attention: |___. wet ib ?
SUBJECT: ~ . Project Termination of ol . ;
ooo - as tadependent ¢ contractor. Tor 5K Division - o 2
sooo + REFERENCE:
. : an SR/DOB/59 1660 dated 24 July 1959
1. Because of the indefinite postponment of Project AESENTINEL,
“under which subject individual was engaged, subject has been terminated by”
thin office on 26 October 1960. So 7 —
2. Subject individual will be picked up on contract on 21 October ,
i960 by Africa Division, Subject was paid on 20 October 1960 by this :
. office ali monics remaining duc him as per Engagement of Independent
. contractor agreement for Project AESENTINEL, Subject has no further
remunerative claim againgt the U.S. Government,
‘ : Chief, SR/DOB ‘

 

 

Avprev. on
a. aa)

 

 

 

 

Wd. dL

 
 

 

- ern
BH/DOB/59/_ 1735. .

27 Septenbsr: 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finanes Divieien
munoudd § Special Contrasting Officer

 

 

 

REPEC | ' Ea/H/SH/ 660, cate 2h dehy 3959 te Puan Divino ro st °

tes subjedt.

le Projoat qeswertim, under which cubjeet” tndividial, has been -

engaged, wae originally approved through the pericd 31 March 1960. bia as

for rensval and suendant of the project has bsen sutmitted to | FI, and it to
intended .gubjest individual will bo utilised under thia prejeat during 1960,

2, The following provisiona wih apply te subject individual dueing |
the interim period, 4.0.1 20 September 1959 through 30° dune 1960.
Tera end Project Gharge Charge. Subject dnidividnad has bean engaged on
onder ora eontract for use under under Project ALSENELHEL, ‘The effective date of the
oral contract {¢ 20 April 1959, and has been extanded # h the period 31 Harsh,

1961, subject to termination by the Governsent tpon thirty (30) days actual noticas.

hk, Beeurity Approval, The initial security elaarance obtained for
Subjeot's usa, C170 We, C-735%2, dated LL Mardh 1959, has been suspended during
the interia period, Requests have been sade of the Offices of Sseurity (BED and-

Alien Affairs Staff) for shbjeot's vse,
5. 6 Gittsenship, Subjeat 4s a foreign’ national,

6. Compannation. Sibjest will be paid salary in the arount of

per month, payable in nd ted States eurrancy.

Te Quarters end Bubsistence. Basis quarters md subsistence coats wilh
be berao by the Gubject. Cagasional incidental expensas will bs borne by
S2/D03 Station Funds. :

3. operation Expasses, Ho Operational kxpenses are contemplated
daring the pericd covered,

9. Other Commiteents, Tha following additional cowsitments havo been
wade to the Subject: ©

 

money

 

 
 

 

 

  

Fate ge PT Ean es ~ ver
: - tee
aor *

 

foaqy 1860

MEMORANDUM POR: Contract Podennel Division

  

"1999 through 30 Jing Boe Bined that dat
ler 5R/D0! . On 2l October 1960, t!
ie

  
 
 
   
 

  

24 fovémbér 1960 through 20 Hovaiber 1962.

 

 

 

 

Medical: €o extent it ta necessary to whintatn good health. a :
S Inauraricei payable to beneficiary, mitt
N\, atid awa

Eg. Bonus r for outstanding performnca, resettlement in sncthe jor count:

Fo Termination: ending of ali benefits and nantes.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

960 3. This contract will have to be prepared for signing prior to 18 Fovember =
4. For further infortation, please contact x82. :

 

 

 

 

Acting Chie?, Afriea Division

4 | ope. sefrgeied peter, - “Rew CotcLif beau -
«ze he —eyherd prow 7 parfats ee

petrtel Ok. + pty Cc. OQ.
jks ixf Ate ‘om, FW. he fees

PA ctlataadey
ok. >

 

. A
¥
oa 5

 
 

we

 

 

 

 

 

(4) You heroin agree that monies | t
shall be | in amounts and at

poriodic intervals to be established by the Governaz.ent representative ova:

|

i seeing your activities. After| Jand all
i other obligationa, auch as locas! taxes, ctc., have bean made, you may rot
|

 

 

 

any further profit derived! ] However, it ie cleart,
understood and agreed that your primary obligation under this agfoement : te
= the: ‘performance of Governmental activities. . .

 

 
 

or otherwise, is sec
tion or. governmeént- é
eraigned Contractin

 
 
 
  

 
 
   

agreement. “tt
mation wilt constitute and

  
    
 
 

|
a
\

ja Instruction

 
 
  

: - — heréin: agree to, act ‘in.
7 tong, oral or written glven You bys authorised Fepr ese ;
fation. ; 1 ¥ ~ oo

 

 

ol “1. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pér--
taining to rights, privileges or benefits othar than thoaa expressly stipulat
in writing In:thia agreement or any amendment tharate shail be binding on.

this organization.

14. Term. This contract is effective as of | November 1949, and alia..
continue thereafter for a period of two (2) yeara unlass sooner terminated
by the Government oither}

 

(a) By aizty (60) daye' actual notice to you from the Government, oF

{&) Without prior notice, tn the event of a breach of this contract by
i your violation of tha security provisions hereof or by your otherwise
| randering youreelf unavallable for acceptable service.

1

j

\

i

i

1 Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extend -

} Upon notice from tha Goveram ent. In the event of voluntary termination on

| your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expirati
"of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be eatitied to returs

i) travel expenses to the United States. Termination or expiration of thig agi. -
q ment will noi roleaso you from tha obligation of any security vath you | ay
i be requirad ta tako.
t

if

:

t

 

UNITED STATES GUVERNMEN™

 

 

i . BY
ACCEPTED: Contracting Cificer
i bal

WITNESS: APPROVED:

 

i

i!

z By

HH re nee eer EUS Sear eee
i

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bear 5

 

 

Effective 31 Gctobor 1960, alt contracts, oral or written, by and between
Fos and the United States Government, ae represented by the Contracting ,
Citicsr, are hereby terminated by smutual consent of the parties therete, and
is dieg thereof the following agteoment i je. substituted.

   

following terme and conditiehe, ee a

Comp ition. In fall consideration fo¥ the oubs en of such. infor -

“you will receive ‘from the Govern:

   

 

  
  

{b) Additional 1 componsétion in an amour cateulate,

Quarters: wit not be hed ‘you n nor will yous accept quarters
provided: ‘by a cover factiity without prior amendment of this
agreement.

 

 

 

 

syaneportation expenges to and from your pormarent post of dufy overseas
a2sG fer authorized operational travel. You ivay be entitled to per diem in
liea of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, whilé on .
igaporary duty away from your pe manent post of asvignment. All travel, |
transportation and par diem provided for under this paragraph muat bs i

; : , —— H
3. Traval, You will be advanced or reimburoed funds fox travel and |

yroperly authorized, and expenses incurrad -horaunder are subject to pay-

sent ard accounting in. substantial compliance with. Geverninant Fogulationa.

Chevational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for i

seceone operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limit
ed by the Government. Such funds will be aubject to peyment and accounting
ia substantial conformance with applicable Governmest reguiationa.

my monies advanced you heroundér shall entitle ‘the Government te withhold
the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion theraof from any monies
<zue you under the terms of thio contract in auch manner as it decms appro-

|

t

. Repayment. it ia recognised that your failure to account for or se
priate. |
;

i

i

 
 

® Najotisted B Bone fite. ‘ta cup, in the. ‘performance ‘of-activities as: re

this agreeingent, you incur an injury or iliness which is not the reoult of.5,.

; groee megligence, willful migconduct, or intemperste act, the Governme -
i will previde medical, éurgical, hospital, transportation and disability be -
if fite in euch amounts and under such conditions ae the Covernment in ite 6

discretion deems proper provided, however, ‘that euch benefite shall not
exceed a total for the same injury of Illness.

  

 

(2) Uf you die in the performance of actis ‘

ah
|| hereunder and your death io not the result of your gros negligence, will-
miscoaduct or intemperate act, the Government will pay the

 

to your bene ficlaryiiee) leas any amount paid te -you under dub-paragrapl .

  
  
  
 

 

 

i
4
f
|
4

y the U.S. Governn. ent can be made without conflicting with its
‘principles and‘ideale. -- - 7 “£
t

  
   

_ tb) Outstanding Performance by, you under #-.
und.

   

either expreds. or conetru dy
may be required by this organisation to

 

ence. this. relationship.

    
   
    
   
  

 

8. Status. You are ‘not an employee of vie Unites States Government. i
under ‘this agreernent and are not oatitled to any benefits normally incide :
to an omployeo status. :

 

Punding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrange: mens
monies due you hereunder may be funded in other than a direct manner. .
ig understood and agreed that any monies 90 funded constitute payment_B
the Government in satisfaction of ite ebligationa anéex this agreement
5

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Blatribeatens —
aga ~ 4k, v/a

eahay da’

$a) he eiess!
ae oe felug/tskeoling expadsen
Dean Bie evedis.

  

ak

Rose lps fey $169, ‘hfe
fayosiile certirication

Gequlibetvills estimate,

io tesa ons
Beaties 41a nat sibte

 

ne Se

+

Angola B, Daveleote

by gutnion 5 a/v

Broosgoun Of advenseg and sreountinzs, h/y

afa

 

Ce phzs igs a\

 

the abeva “pcoceo
O38 thas madame

     
 

 

144029440003]

 

   

  
    

     

HecsY SELECT

 

SSHLTTEE OF ASS

   

 

  
 

FILE TITLE/MABERVOLIME: 407/90 Count. _

 

   

INCLUSIVE DATES: _9 Y fy 5G- 22 Je uly 19g

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: [ay p : = .

     

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

    

 

 
 
 

    
 

 

   
  
 

 

NO LYSCUMENTS MUAY SE COPTED O2 REMOVED Frag:

 

   
 

    

Theme swetonms eam aay ie peepee

TRAE camera re eM eR ERATOR

 

 

+ Prom yrange eg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

ta ane roar |
A Sh the Upateraet ng OF
: DOG " . .
fou mee f ve rtrd motifte? “hat paid orrt react will be terairatet
IN Sepierter lvbi, You ace rewinded of tha enatents

by the. Gevere? ‘
af garaz-age @leven ae y of agtd eavicact, which reeds ag follovor —

Rufore
Oe “enrenss

 

   

ser, effort va 4 toes

   

   

 

. 7 Le fate cy. ALY fofernetton related to thie agrosasnt
oo ee TT eee a P atructions, trie inetmaent, or-ctvervive, Le
aacrot & xi iP not Sa” divul get “to any pers
governess ‘sy ony furm or manner. #1: aue ast tod by th
arcern! gwd centeeczing CHhiser axencirg. tite agreement, ft fe
woatensear of the abu7ve teforration

  
   
 

    

 

sy yes of any G24 2ik-
Bie) a bY rOaRe cd thie

       

    

     

   
 
 

sentatives fax
“acever thyrtug 3
tint Btetee

aed parite. nets wyase oe om

wath al. sehr demands and DCektL (lee dn ane fesw
“A Ce eo geeit tea certcrnad f

Ze genta. aflac ita J.

  
 

 

Bieta hedgecent of the
suctst la hare 76

oeitel STATES 2 YES:

 

 

 

  

 
     
    
 

  
 
   
     
 
      
     
   
   
   
   
 
   
 

 

 

MEORANDUW FOR: Calef, Africa _

 

 

 

AYR 2 Termimtion of

 

 

   
  

 

h Agyrem. ia harewith requested: t to “polesnte, terafaate, ond:
wake a Sisal estren 168 paynsnt of. $2000.00 tc a.

for tnté En WALL be required to. > stn a eat Claio and Boereey
agreement. . .

   

2. roe ie prevent ly planned to ‘yelowste audject roy ‘Burore, wit with

the Oreied Gr Security transporting subject via MED os fat ag Prank

 

 

furt, Ora vtenee he will preceed te aa7 Wostera Burcpoun‘comtry o
his choice and at bts eoeee te et will constitute ,
hia caly aaeeee vatil bo ean find va lle a * : fr

  

3, Shere ort edequate funds evetisdie te tba prater
seraina tion, emus and Rranagortation to Preaktart via Mn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4a. > appro} is also raiested $0 wrire ‘off sud charge $07 eapynae ‘
the SLO Lona glee of wbteh oyerentastaly $8e00. oo 4 sor
.. hte mpbstandiag. “ 2 i
. Lj
. . - oO Ey WE BE
9 .
al

: a & moa }

1, Spprered: a Amount requested la paragsaph ose |

‘ ‘g approved fo payment, :
_e {

7 po man

Ugectal Santeactiag Offcer :

. f

* i

Page :

Pelheenves etece Sek a oie eB he apenas eis tin Danelle end
