 

2.

 

 

    

i bed
Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas

Villegas was hired by Mr.
asa Covert Assetin ((

 

(G22

ntiago, Chile jand continued to be used in(Chile
rom June 1969 to June 1971. RUIZ came to the
United States in August 1971, became something of

Ba protege, and resided in Mr. heme

 

from 19 August 1971 to 21 April 19727

attended Montgomery Community College, became
acquainted with Mr. James W. McCord at that
educational institution, and later acquired
temporary (and illegal) employment at McCord,,,
Associates as a sort of caretaker, Mz] also
assisted Mr, McCord in arranging for the payment

‘of RUIZ, a Chilean National, and Mr.C—*pat one

point got RUIZ a part-time job with Mr, Glen#t.
Sedam, Head of the District of Columbia Committee
to Re-elect Richard Nixon.

G. COVER ORGANIZATIONS

1,

Robert R. Mullen and Company

Robert R. Mullen and Company has been utilized by
the Central Cover Stafi since 1963, and since that

 

- time a total of eight people. of the Mullen Company ©

have been cleared or made w itting of Agency ties,
Mr. Mullen has provided sensitive cover support
overseas for Agency employees and he was
instrumental in the formation of the Cuban Freedom
Committee, Mr. Edward Naeher, Mullen's Book-~
keeper and Accountant, is a retired CIA Finance
Officer, As of 1 May 1970, Mr. Everette Howard
Hunt, Jr., who had just retired from the Agency,
became a legitimate employee of Mr. Mullen. He is

aware of at least two present cover placements under
Robert R. Muller and Company. The Federal Bureau
of Investigation was informed of this Agency connection

by memorandum dated 21 June 1972.

 
74-00000
»

2. Interprogres

Interprogres is a new subsidiary of the Mullen

‘Company formed in 1971, as a result of contacts

developed at the Zagreb Trade Fair in Yugoslavia,

It is a pilot operation aimed at expanding East- :

West commercial relationships, At least two |
ve tangential tasks of :

promoting the acceptance of this company as a

Mullen subsidiary. The Federal Bureau of

Investigation was advised of the Agency connection

by memorandum dated 21 June 1972, which covered

Robert R. Mullen and Company.

3. General Foods Corporation

 

General Foods Corporation, headquartered in the
White Piains, New York area, is a client of Robert
R. Mullen anc Company. The General el *t
Corporation is providing cover support to
| Over the years, because of person-
nel changes, sixteen officials have been cleared on.
certain aspects of our interests, but they have not
been informed of our use of Robert R. Mullen and
Company. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was
-- informed of-ou tol the General Foods.
Corporation by memorandum dated 21 June 1972, ~— -—-- ~-——--;-

 

 

RELATED AGENCY CHECKS

The Federal Bureau of Investigation and/or the news media
have mentioned the following individuals or organizations in
the course of the investigation of the Watergate incident.

Agency records are either negative or contain no information i
directly pertinent to the Watergate incident: i

l. Association of National Advertisers

Association of National Advertisers was mentioned
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as having .
offices with Robert R, Mullen and Company, The
Bureau was advised "no record",

 
 

Up

°

 

TyEo fy
cif BS

9. James Louis Baker

James Louis Baker served with the Agency from

2 July 1952 until 24 June 1972, when his contract
was allowed to expire. Mr. Baker, a GS-12,
Operations Officer assigned to Special Operations
Division/DDP, was in Saigon, South Vietnam, .
from April 1968 until 24 July 1971, when he was

stexrs because of serioung
: roblems involving his .
_ Divorce proceedings continued through early 1972,

and his case has been monitored by the Office of
Personnel, Subject was referred to McCord ©
Associates by the Office of Personnel, but he ;
’ acquired a position with the Bureau of Narcotics and
Dangerous Drugs, to be effective as of 26 June 1972.
His application may possibly be on file at McCord -
Associates,

F, OTHER CIA CONNECTIONS
1. Robert Foster Bennett

Robert Foster Bennett, son of U.S. Senator Wallace
Bennett of Utah, is Director and Executive Vice-

-- .~President of Robert R. Mollen and Company, which _
has been utilized by the Agency for commercial. - - --.---.

cover purposes. Mr. Bennett has been interviewed
by members of the news media because of intense

interest in Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., a former —

Agency Staff Employee working for the same firm. A
‘Covert Security Approvai was issued on 19 March
1971 for Mr. Bennett's use in providing cover for an
Agency overseas asset. The Executive Director-
Comptroller and the Director of Central Intelligence
were advised at the time of the approval. -

 

 
74-0000

6.

7.

8.

YTS Guy
soo 3 ih °

George Theodore Stanton

George Theodore Stanton served with the Agency
from 4 August 1947 to 8 January 1972, and was a
GS-14, Operations Officer, assigned to the Counter
Intelligence Staff/DDP, at the time of his retirement.
Dr. Edward M, Gunn indicated that Mr, Stanton has
been serving as a Consultant to the Institute for
Protection of Safety Studies, Incorporated. |

Louis Edgar Sherrard

' Louis Edgar Sherrard served with the Agency from

2 July 1952 until 31 January 1969, when he resigned.
At the time of his resignation, he was a GS-13, Secu-.
rity Officer assigned to the Security Research Staff,

"Mx. Sherrard's employment background centers on

industrial and physical security, and he resigned from _

the Agency with the stated intention of taking a position
with Bestline Products, Incorporated, of San Jose,
California. There have been recent "rumors" that Mr.
Sherrard is in some way affiliated with McCord
Associates, but there are no specifics on this.

Ross Ward Lambert

__._ Ross Ward Lambert, a former OSS employee, served

a+ en eeeneeminenenepentee tree

 

“with the Agency. from .11 January... 1965 too August____
1971, and was a GS-13, Contract Employee assigned
to the Special Operations Division/DDP, at the time of
his resignation. Mr. Lambert served extensively in
Far East Division overseas posts, and there was a
previous security interest in the case because of his
daughter's involvement in activities of the Students ior
a Democratic Society (SDS). The Office of Personnel
referred Mr. Lambert to McCord 4 Associates but he
took a job elsewhere.

 
7400000
ry

McCord Associates has an approved job resume,
but Mr. Mahoney has made no decision on taking
the McCord offer.

E. FORMER AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES

1.

tay

Therese Mae Shea

Mrs. Therese Mae Shea served as a GS-07, Staff
Employee of the Agency from 15 June 1948 until
her resignation from maternity leave on 20 April

1956. Her husband, William Francis Shea, was

also with the Agency until February 1971. Mrs.
Shea has been working as a secretary to Mr. James
W. McCord at McCord Associates in Rockville,
Maryland, and she quite naturally has extensive
knowledge of Agency contacts with the private
investigative fizm. She knows Mr. °3

and is aware of his ties wi van
Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas.

 

Dr. Edward Mansfield Gunn

Dr, Edward M. Gunn served with the Agency from
13 June 1955 until 31 May 1971, and he was a GS-17,

._ Deputy Director of Medical Services, at the time of

"his retirement. Dr. Gunn was interviewed by an |
Office of Security representative on 19 June 1972, and

discussed in some detail his involvement with the

Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Incorporated,
which is affiliated with McCord Associates and occupies

space in the same offices. Dr. Gunn last had direct
personal contact with Mr. McCord on 21 April 1972,
and he denies having any knowledge of the Watergate
incident, :

. Dr. Jacob Victor Golder

Dr. Jacob V. Golder, a former OSS employee, served
with the Agency from 3 January 1955 until 16 April
1971, and he was a GS-15, Chief of Psychological

Services Staf t£/ Office of Medical Services, at the time of +

 
ya-0009
’

 

 

x
X

   

wished.
muy

uid

his retirement. He is still being utilized by the .-
Agency on a contract basis at the SECRET level.
Dr. Golder has not yet been interviewed (as of

23 June 1972) but indications are that his ties to
Mr. McCord are similar to these of Dr. Gunn
mainly through his participation as a Consultant-
Instructor at the Institute for Protection and Safety —

Studies, Incorporated.

William Francis Shea

William F, Shea served with the Agency from July
1951 until February 1971, and was a GS-14,
Intelligence Officer with the Office of Strategic
Research, DDI .at the time of his resignation, He
had resigned in lieu

of termination; and’nay not be too favorably disposed
towards the Agency. As previously indicated, his
wife, Therese Mae Shea, works as a secretary at
McCord Associates. /The Office of Personnel referred
Mr. Shea to McCord Associates in 1971, and Dr.
Edward M. Gunn indicated that Mr. Shea is affiliated
with the Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc,

 

Walter Edward Brayden

“Walter Edward Brayden served with the Agency from -

2 Febroary 1948 until 31 October 1969, and was a
GS-13, Intelligence Officer, assigned to Operational
Services/Central Cover Staff/DDP, at the time of his
retirement. Mr. Brayden was interviewed by an
Office of Security representative on 20 June 1972,

when he indicated that he has been employed by McCord
Associates in minor security duties during the last few
months. In April 1972, he served as a guard for Mrs.

"Martha Mitchell on a trip to Chicago, and he expected

to work on a security survey of the Hotel Fontainbleau
in Miami in late June 1972.

 
74-0000 ' . . ? ~  °
. xe . : ‘ ron .

won gmt Th
EYER ms y

3. Frank Anthony Sturgis

Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis, who has used numerous
aliases, formerly served in the U.S. Marine Corps
and the U.S. Army in the 1940's. As of 1959, Mr.
Sturgis was a Captain in the Cuban Axmy, but later.
became disillusioned with Castro, Became a soldier
of fortune, and in 1961 headed an organization called
the International Anticommunist Brigade, which he
claimed had 5,000 members. Mr, Sturgis was never
recruited by the Agency, but has been associated with
Mr. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an Agency
contact since the 1960's. :

4, Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga

Mr, Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an American
citizen of Cuban birth, was recruited by the Agency in
1961. The project to which he was assigned was
terminated in 1969, and he has since been on a part~.
time retainer to report on the Cuban exile community,
receiving $100.00 a month. Prior to 1969, he received
$8, 100. 00 per year for his full-time operational activity.
It is to be noted that Mr. Martinez is a real estate
partner of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

 

- 8, “Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel a

Mr. Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel, who has used
various aliases, is not on record in WH Division/DDP,

or any other component of the Agency. The Federal

Bureau of Investigation has been advised that the Central
Intelligence Agency has no record of Mr. Gonzales-Rosabel.

CG. THE WHITE HOUSE

Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

 

Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., a former War Correspondent
and iree lance writer, was previously affiliated with the Office
of Strategic Services, and he was employed as an Agency Staff

.

 
 

 

ENTRY INTO DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

A,

BACKGROUND

Five men were arrested by the Washington Metropolitan
Police at 2:10 a.m. on 17 June 1972, after having been
discovered breaking into the Democratic National Head- -
quarters at the Watergate in Washington, D.C. The five -
men had cameras and rather sophisticated bugging equip-
ment. Although the suspects initially used aliases during
the police interrogation, they were identified as Messrs.
James Walter McCord, Jr.; Bernard L. Barker; Frank
Anthony Sturgis; Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga; and
Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel.
has continued to receive extensive publicity, and there is
suspicion that.a sixth person was directly involved in the
illegal entry. :

PRIMARY FIGURES

1, James Walter McCord, Jr

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., a former Agent of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, served as a Staff
Employee of the Agency from 22 August 1951] until
his retirement on 31 August 1970. At the time of his
~¥etivement, he was a-GS-15, Security Officer-—He

known as McGord Associates, and in early 1972, he
was named Security Coordinator for the National
Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon.”

2. Bernard L. Barker

. Mr, Bernard L. Barker, a former Captain in the U.S.
Air Force, was born in Cuba of American-born parents,
and he began cooperating with the Agency in 1959, He
-was hired on 2 contract basis in April 1960, and was
used primarily to report on Cuban exile activities. Mr.
Barker was terminated by the.Agency on 31 July 1966,
to accept employment ‘in private industry.

TUE Oule
hihw lil
arrarr

  

Cel tein |
aera
wlLiide bse

 

The Watergate incident |

 

has since set up his private investigative organization ;

 
F-0QUOO
ary

 

Employee from 8 November 1949 until his retirement

on 30 April 1970, when he commenced private employ-
ment with Robert R. Mullen and Company, a firm

which has been utilized by the Agency for cover purposes.
A news article of July 1971 indicated that Mr. Hunt joined
the White House Staff asja Consultant to President Nixon
preparatory to the President's visit to the Peoples
Republic of China. Much of the recent publicity in the
case has focused on Mr. Hunt, who was interviewed by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation on 17 June 1972. He
admitted that he had written a check to Mr. McCord but

. invoked his Constitutional rights on all other questions. -

On the White House issue, previous reference was made
to the employment of Mr. James W. McCord by the
Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon,

CURRENT AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES
l. James Corbin Fitchett

James Corbin Fitchett entered on duty with the
Agency in early 1952, and is currently a GS-13, .
Security Officer. His wife, Kathryn Fitchett, is
also an Office of Security employee. Scheduled
to retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, Mr.

 

Fitchett made it known to Mr. MeCord in May 1972, ~~
that he would be available to work with the Committee
for the Re-election of President Nixon, and he was
offered a position as a paid Security Officer. Mr.
McCord initially wanted to utilize him as of 15 June
1972, but Mr. Fitchett requested a polygraph inter-
view to substantiate his claim that he was not involved
in the Watergate incident. Polygraph testing on

20 June 1972, was completely favorable.

2, Ralph Orlando True

Ralph Orlando True entered on duty with the Agency
on 1 December 1950, and is currently a GS-15, Secu-
xity Officer. Scheduled to retire from the Agency on

 
74-00000 -

a
#

 

30 June 1972, Mr. True o renned on assuming a

position with McCord Associates or an affiliate St ——-
security unit, It has been established that Mr. : ,
True was in Mr. McCord's office at the Com-
mittee for the Re-election of President Nixon on
16 June 1972, the day before the Watergate .
incident, ‘Mr. True denies any direct involve-
ment in the case.

 

 

 

. entered on duty with the :
“Agency i in mid-1952, and is currently a GS-14,
Operations Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP.
He has been acquainted with Mr. Everette Howard
Hunt, Jr., through the years, and he developed an
acquaintance with Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., at
Montgomery Community College in the fall of 1971,
when Mr. McCord was teaching an industrial

ity, course at the educational institution, Mr. - — , oO
ssociation with Mr. McCord developed :
: through his interest in a young Chilean protege, , :

Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas, who formerly worke: eh
as an

is to be noted that Mr
Villegas to acquire an oifice

 

 

 

rranged for Juan oe
Osition at McCord

  
 

bs

Le ee AS EOC e.the-yo edtolive. ==.
: in Mr ponre, arive Mr. ehicle; -and- See
attend

4, Harry Thayer Mahoney

Harry Thayer Mahoney entered on duty with the Agency
on 30 March 1951, and is currently a GS-14, Operations
Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP. Scheduled to
retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, Mr. Mahoney,
a former polygraph examiner in the Office of Security,
is acquainted with Messrs. Ralph O. True and Everette
Howard Hunt, Jr. The Office of Personnel Outplace-
ment Assistance Branch referred Mr. Mahoney to Mr.

' McCord and he was interviewed for a position at his
offices for the Commiitee for the Re-election of
President Nixon, or or about 10 May 1972. Mr. *

Mahoney was ofic¢red a position with McCord Associates.
I 4

   
