13-00000

 

. in New Orléang at the time of the Oswald-Bringuler
. confrontations in August 1963. It was concluded that -
. ‘Oswald was never a member of the DRE, whichin fact _
oi. vejected him, and that the DRE \ was not involved i in | the. a
- assassination. a

 

 

i ee : See

° 3. ih Aprit 1967 the undersigned showed a copy of. the
memorandum to Mr." ___—S—Ss then. GC / WH/COG, who considered
that it reflected inadequate information and bias. It was agreed, © _
nevertheless, that the charges which District Attorney James Garrison
was then be ginning to level against anti-Castro Cubans and this A gency

. necessitated careful checking.” :

  

+ Ae The firet report in the cl REA series on Garrison, 26 ‘April
1967, listed seven Cuban refugees then linked to the case (Sergio,

. -ARCACHA Smith, Carlos BRINGUIER, Jullo BUZNEDO, Manvel “GARCIA ..

Gonzalez, Pascual GONGORA, Miguel Silva ‘TORRES, and Carlos.
QUIROGA.) It requested any additional WH/COG information about them
“and about the following groups: the Cuban Democratic Revolutionary
‘Front, the DRE, the Information Council of the Americas, and any other

. anti«Castro groups active in the New Orleans area. The request added, |
"Information about CIA relationships with the above-named groups should
_not be restricted to New Orleans but should also include Miami and other
areas to which Garrison's investigations may lead." Information was
also requested on Edward S. BUTLER, Alberto FOWLER, Emilio

 

SANTANA, and a paramilitary training site at Lake Pontchartrain.

forwarded on 8 May 1967 the then AC/WH/COG, Mr. .
provided the requested information and added, UWH/
° continue to review all material that may contain information pertinent

to this" subject and will forward such information to cr R&A on a priority _

‘basis, "

: 5. “Since that date CI/R&A has: prepared a series of reports ¢ on
the Garrison case. All of these have been forwarded to WH/COG. In
turn, WH/COG has provided additional information from its own files
and those of the Miami Station, to which it has addressed several inquiries.

-6 CI/R&A ia currently compiling a separate list of all Cubans
(as well as other Latin Americans) whose names have been linked to the
Garrison investigation. This list will be forwarded to WH/COG witha.
request for checks if it contains any Identities not previously traced
against their files (including those of JMWAVE).

a: : pO —
crete :
Vac.

 

 

 
104-10435-10008

 

     

 

   

MEMORANDUM
SUBS: ECT: ; Garrison Investigation of Kennedy Assassination:
- Allegations of Involvement, CLA “7 an

 

ol. Mrl sé the SE Division wrote a memorandum
entitled ''Possible DRE Animus esident Kennedy" and dated |
-8 March 1967. At that time Mr. had reéently returned from a.

_ tour of duty in Yugoslavia. While there he had’read about the Warren
Commission's investigation and had noted thé pre-assassination encounter
in New Orleans between Carlos Bringuier 6f the Student Revolutionary
Directorate (DRE) and Lee Harvey Osw. id. He recalled his own dealings
in Miami with the DRE, a CIA-subsidized group. He considered the

- DRE members whom he knew to be yhpredictable and untrustworthy. He
speculated as to whether DRE elepfents could have been involved in the
Kennedy assassination. He recofnmended that CLA investigate this
possibility if it had not already’done so. was assigned to Miami
from July 1962 to August 1964. Neither CI/R&A nor SB has a retention

copy of £ the memorandum, '} ut Mr. is still at Headquarters, :

   
 
  
 
  
  

 

 

  

2. Mr: Arthur
following members of

‘< a. Miss Margaret Forsythe. She stated, that CIA's
: interest inthe DRE had been made known to the office of the
Attorney | eneral by letters of 9 January and 13 April 1963
addressed’ to J. Walter Yeagley.: The earlier letter said, in-
-. . part, "The DRE is of interest to this Agency. which sponsors
and supports its propaganda and intelligence collection activity —
in the Western Hemisphere . ... as the DRE is not a group
-- under complete Agency control, the above does not insure that
_ they will not undertake isolated paramilitary operations without
-- prior notification. We . : eo Sg

 

De Messre. khen recently returned
‘from a tour of the Miami Station, and Carl Trettin, DC of the

 

OL Branch, WH/GOG,. ‘who knew Bringuier and was Stationed

ke ‘Le [oe esolut..

HO, b @ “ty (5)

 

ern

  
 
13-00000

ares

7. The problem arising from Garrison's charges of Agency
involvement in the assassination is compounded by the nature of

- some of our former Cuban operations, which resulted in a form of .

indirect association. For example, Garrison has sought without
success to extradite Sergio ARCACHA Smith from Dallas. FBI reporting
of 28 March 1967 stated that according to Layton Patrick Martens,

‘Garrison will try to prove that Arcacha was the "second trigger man"

in the assassination. The checks run by WH/COG and GI/R&A have not

‘shown any link between Arcacha and CiA. However, WH/COG has
_ ¥eported that Arcacha was the delegate of the Frente Revolucionario

Democratico (FRD) in New Orleans before the Bay of Pigs, that he
maintained regular postal contact with PRD headquarters in Miami, _

that.the FRD and the Cuban Revolutionary Council were supported by

CIA, and that funds were supplied to the head of these groups, Dr. Jose
MIRO Cardona. Consequently Arcacha may have believed that his |
activities in New Orleans were ClA-supported, This: phenomenon of ..
indirect association appears in other cases as well and may well underlie
some of Garrison's accusations. * an ;

 

BL It is suggested that GIWH o or his representative might

, profitably query Mr{—sébout the allegations summarized in

paragraph 1, above. . Although the date for the trial of Clay Shaw has ©

‘not been set, itis plainly drawing closer. Once it starts, the. newspapers

will carry a flood of accusations, old and new} and it would be judicious”
to be © prepared in advance. -

     

 

 

 
