13-00000

     

 

above as a closa associate of Subject and also of alleged
Soviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASIN, is the Subject

of SSD Mle #35095. ROGARD is a former U. S. Marine whose
parents were Polish-born and who lived in China for
twenty years prior to returning to the United States in
1950. He allegedly was pro-Soviet, iet ridiculed White
Russians who did not avail themselves of Soviet citizen-
ship made available to them; hired as Editor of his
TMentsin Evening Journal, following its resumption after
the Wer, one Leonoff who was an employee of TASS:
followed a Communist inspired line in his newspapers

and published without comment in his Tientsin Evenin:
Journal a letter discrediting American Military Police
Ta fTentsin, comparing them unfavorably with Soviet
Military Police in Harbin who were praised in glowing
terma3 etc. ROGARD, "1f used" by Project PILLAR,

was to be limited to Category Il; but his wif
| Ibragimoff ROGARD. #79069. haal

 

 

 

 

 

 

FS 3 RCUARD app or
since
e Hér assoclation with; wag terminated in
May 1959, with the termination of Project( ABUNA,) but
she gave a "hard time” for months and refused

to sign her secrecy agreement until 30 November 1959.
Various relatives of hers have in. the past been
associated with th Mra. ROGARD appears to
hove tad mich the same history as Subject. Sho was
bora in Russia of Russian-born parents, ot Turko-Tartar
nationality; left Russia in 1919 for Harbin; was
educated in Mukden and Tlentsin; and was. employed in
Tientsin in various import-export firms, etc. (No
thorouga study has been made of the ROGARNS! files.)7

 

DLT
Le “D: Mates,
M. OD. Stevens ©

OS :SaS MDS ile

 

 

 

   
13-00000

       

wd, 7 4 i
Consulate. From 19h7 to 1949 he stated that he was the owner of
the "Anchor Printing Shop" in which the "North China Marine"
contimed publication in Tsingteo, China. The KAMKINs came to
the United States in 1919 arriving in San Francisco in Marche

 

 

As of 1957 KAMKIN was being used on an unclassified basis by
the CIA Idbrary asa publications procurement channel, It is, of
course, possible that Subject's interest in "RODINA" is on behalf
of this Agency.

fhe other book stores involved in the report to the French
Desk were the woll known Conmunist "Four Continents Book Store",
(MS-2000), "Imported Publications and Products" (MS-2001-I) and ;
"Universal Distributors Company” (#91916). These organizations are
registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. The Four ~
Continents Book Store le flagrantly Communist needs no defining;
and the "Imported Publications and Products" is reported to be
one of the four principal outlets for Communist political prop-
agenda in the United States. "Universal Distributors Company” is
described as “an official distributor of Communist Party Literature"
and as “Commnist controlled". It is the distributing agency for
the Four Continents Book Store. ;

Information from a reliable confidential infcrmant reflects
that during the summer of 1959 KAMKIN indicated he plannad to
a open a branch book store in San Francisco to bs operated by S.
we ; SAPHIKIN. The store was to be called Znanie, Russian Book Store,
and located at 5237 Geary Street, San Francisco. Thie S. SAPELKIN,
in all probability, is Mrse KAMKIN's brother-in-law Semen Io
SAPELKIN, MS-5000, who with his wife Hina, nes DAVIDOVA, aka
DAVIDOF, was the subject of an FBI Record Check Request in May
1955. (The wife Nina, per the check sh:et, resided at Routs
1, Van Leer, Tennessee from 1951 to 1952, which was the KAMKIN's
address during this period.)

The 1955 FBI Record Check Request on SAPELKIN indicated that
he was formerly a painter; that hie wife Nina was a dentist; that
both were born in Russia; that he arrived in the United States
from France around the end of eh, was stateless and hed his firsat
papers and that she arrived in San Francisco 5 June 1951. They
were residing at 1405 Harvard Street, NeWe, Washington, D. Co
(which was the address of Subject's book store); and had formerly
resided in Tientsin and Shanghai, China. Both their children
were born in Mentsin, one in ishé and one in 1919.

An RI check requested in 1957 for USLA indicated that the name
Semon I. SAPHLKIN appeared in a report from a reliable source in
May 1950, which dealt with refugees in an IRO camp at Guinan,

Samar, Philippine Islands; and, according to the report, he had
been a member of the Russian Residents Association (probably Russian

aw 2
af po,
-2- iN
. : ie al: j ‘.
. . Py

te

 

     
 

Froa-t049-10043 ;

  

Arty PIR ope

TO : Bruce Le Solie, C/RB/SRS/0S DATE:17 December 1959

   

Memorandum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 4

FROM 2 M, D, Stevens, RB/SRS/OS

SUBJYCT: KAMIIN, Victor Petrovich
Al~2752 - SSD-90097

 

A review of Subject*s file has been made in connection with
a requsst from the CI Officer, French Desk, with reference to
information from the(Chief of Station, Paris,) that Subject's Washington

/ book atere, as of the summer of 1959, was one of the four book stores
x in the Urmited States where subscriptions could be bought for "RODINA",
F, the bulletin odited by the Repatriation Committee of East Berlins -

yi "RODINA"! (LA PATRIE), which is distributed in various languagas
“IN and is ytiléd in sealed envelopes, has been forbidden digtribution ©

in France. (See attached thernofax.)

Security files reflect that in April 1957 the FRI advised that
Victor Petrovich KAMKIN, Elena Andreevna KAMKIN and Nina SAPELKIN
had been the subjects of an Internal Security ~ R type investigation
as of 1951 and thats “There is no derogatory data of a subversive
nature in the files of this Bureau concerning the subject of your
inquiry (KAMKIN). It should be noted, however, that Victor
Petrovich KAMKIN is currently of investigative interest to this
Bureau and, accordingly, it is requested thet any contact of hin
in behalf of the Central Intelligonce Agency be handled by this
bureau." It was advised orally that the Bureau was using KAMKIN
as a BUUrCes of

Mas. SAP aim Aecording to an undated blind memorandum (possibly a Staff ¢
Aso Lived wiyJrring memorandum), Nina SAPELKIN is Elena KAMKIN's sister and ag of
gaming MM FAUS 396) was living with the KAMKINs in Tennesses. Nina SAPELKIN was

  
 

ach VA
saeatel cites born in Russia 19 August 1912; and wes evacuated from Shanghai to
Abb they _., Samar, Philippine Islands under IRO auspices in April 19h9,
otal

',. accompanied by her husband Semen I. SAPELKIN and their two children.
Sue care to the United States in 1951 and lived in Tennessee for
a time with the KAMKINs,. The SAPELKINs reportedly renounced
Soviet citizenship in Shanghai in September or October 1918.

The KAMKINs also were born in Russia and KAMKIN attended .
high school and university in Harbin, Manchuria. Thereafter until .
195 he was in the printing and publishing businese in China; and
during 1916-7 says he was with "Special Services, Section IT,
Amph., Marine Corps", working on its newspaper, "North China
Marine’, In 1947 he was co-publisher of "Free Word™ which he says
wag an anti-Soviet newspaper closed by pressure of the Soviet

   

 

   

 
13-00000

 

 

Fmigrants Association) and of the Soviet Club in Shanghai.

An ONI name check on KAMKIN, in November 195, reflacted tho
ceruss-reforencing of his name to "Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong
#102, 22: August 1952", the subject of which was "Contact of Mr.
Ne Veriemin/VASILIEVITCH SAPELKIN with the Hong Kong Consulate Genoral"; . i
ots. ‘while wits of a 1957 "K" check based on this same "Foreign , ae
: Service Dispatch, Hong Kong #402, 22 August 1952, Secret", Lo
reads as follows: "Mr. SAPELKIN reported that he had recently . a
‘received various communications from a White Russian friend of hia,
Mr. Victor P. KAMKIN who was formerly head of the Russian Emigrants
Association in Teingtao, China. Mr. KAMKIN left China early in
199 and has resided in the United States since that time. Both
SAFELKIN and KAMKIN reportedly had certain contacts with a Eugens
GORDENEV, Russian-speaking officer attached to the G-2 Section of
the First Marines Division in Tientsin following the Japanass Surrender . #
in 195. Mr. KAMKIN has now written to Hong Kong asking Mre 7 OE
SAPELKIN to supply certain economic information on North China and oR
Manchuria for the uee of the ‘American Government’. Mr. KAMKIN :
indicates that he ie involved in certain intelligence activities.” . £
fin a letter of 13 July 1950, offering his services to ONI, Subject — : :
a OO named GORDENEV as one who could "substantiate my work in China". . i
mo ONI advised CIA that their records contained no derogatory infor- — i
: mation regarding Subject, but that ONI did not contemplate utiliz- . :
: ing his services./ mG

 

 

i
“Renee Tas Subject's friend "Mr. SAPHLKIN" may well be Mr. Ventamin :
Pinos wat has Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, the Subject of Hong Kong Dispatch, #02, a
» bear obtain 2 awhe in all probability is related to Mrs. KAMKIN's brother-in-law,
Pere Ssmen I. SAPZLKIN.
bie. gq individu as:
A MdS According to a 1955 RI check conducted on. ons Alexander Se
4 {wo ‘AQRLOFF for Ge2, a report of 17 May 1950 advised that ORLOFF (vho
3 , ' had” been described as an "Old Soviet worker) was closely associated
‘ —<" with Venismin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, an alleged Soviet agent at
i the IRO Camp at Samar, P. Ie As reported above, Mree KAMKIN's
3 sister Nina and her husband Semen SAPELKIN were evacuated to Samar,
a P. I., from Shanghai under IHO auspices in April 19h9.

 

s Veniamin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN's friend ORLOFF, according to

- . a report of 8 April 1950, was alleged to have influenced a district

3 leader of the IRO Camp at Samar with pro-Soviet propaganda, and to
have worked with a number of other pro-~Soviet interrees: in the camp

. te Sovietize the Russian refugess interned theree According to a
report dated 5 May 1950, ORLOFF allegedly was believed to be a |
Soviet agent. (The report noted that this information originated
in the IRO Camp in Samar; that much information originating thers
had proven unreliable; and that the reliability of this particular
information had not been determined.)

   
13-00000

 

   

However this. may be, it appears that there could be much truth

in the allegations. Information in Security files reflects that

ORLOFF very possibly is identical with a "Count ORLOFF of the
Russian Committee", (apparently a committees of IRO)5uho assisted
the Commercial Counselor for the Bulgarian Legation in securing
IRO employment for one Bogdana OTTAI, a possible Soviet agent in
Paria who wag living with and was engaged to marry Kiril VASSIIEV,
who was believed to be an agent of the Bulgarian Military Intelligence
Service. "Count ORLOFF" also helped arrange OTTAI's entrance into
the United States. Aluxander S. ORLOFF and "Count ORIOFF" may well
be identical with Alexander ORLOFF, DL-2881, a highly suspect
individual of Russian birth, and a former AMICRG employee who was
security disapproved by OSS in 1943. This latter individual, per
a 193 OSS investigation, was known as "The Count®, :

A December 195) Staff C-memorandum regarding KAMKIN, reported
that unevaluated information dated 1 June 1918 indicated that ons
Victor N./KAMKIN was involved in a money printing transaction with
the Japaridse, in which he used the machinery of the Chihli Presa
in Tientsin to facilitate the counterfitting. The source of this
information had pointed out the possibility that Victor Ne. KAMKIN
might be identified in some way with.a V. Pe KAMKIN who was named
as a character reference by one Vladimir Vasily IVASHKOFF. (IVASHKOFF
was not identified.) The memorandum advised that according to a
report dated 1 June 19148 from a U. Se Naval. Attache, Nanking, to
the American Ambassador, Nanking, Ve N. KAMKIN was a printer and.
publisher in Shanghai and later was in charge of the Russian
Publishing House/known as Nashe ZNANIEe He wae closely associated
with Bernard S.;ROGARD of the Chihli Press, who. in turn was
associated wi | \alleged Soviet esplonage agent Olga NAKVASIN.

According to the Staff C memorandum , a report from the FEI
dated 1h August 1953 indicated that a source of unknown reliability
stated that one Victor KAMKIN, who operated a book store as a
possible cover in Tientsin, China, acted as a paid informer of

-the Japanese during World War II; and wag a paid informer of U. S.

Army Intelligence after the War. With the assistance of the
American Military Government in Tsingtao, China, he became. Chairman
of the Russian Immigrant Society in Tsingtao in 1948. There seens
small doubt that this Victor KAMKIN is identical with Victor Ne
KAMKIN, and with Subject, Victor P. KAMKIN who was formerly head
of the Russian Immigrant Association in Tsingtao, China, accord-
ing to his friend SAPELKIN, as. reported in Hong Kong Dispatch
#402. -Note that Victor N. KAMIIN was in charge of a Russian
Publishing House in China known as Nashe Znanie; and that the
branch store Subject intended to open in San Francisco (and may
have opensd) was also to be called Znarie (this work in Russian
means "Knowledge"). - —

[Bernard Se ROGARD of the Chihli Press, referred to

: . 4

“he | yo \

 

 

 

 

 
