74-0000

 

LPG-0s28 ;
Field Coaments Oe
6. both the CCEP and the splinter , rou, vhicn publishes i

Fevolucion nave ciseusses erestiazg the PRE. Tne wain . {
41Vferice appears to te tn the tlaing. The CCEP feels : Hi
that it woulo be Lresature t% etteapt to fers @ political :
party at tais ting. walle the Feectucion gruup. considered :
wecieal Ly the CCEF. favere foraing toe Larty fesodtately. , %
CCP. UNG-6826, UIC-8003, and LEG- 6877) : / . ag

        
   
       
     
         
   
   
   
   
     
     
          
 
 

“Qe UFG98076 incormetly identified hunes as Enrique tones
: Gomes. with the cumment that ha aignt be icentiee) with
 @ pereoa by the sane nawe who wae formerly associates
-y wath the Second ational Froay of the Leceatray (8FEL). ot

Avalledic laformetian Indicates that Carique tvnea Alvares
wee aiev foreerly sssouiated with: the Sul. By carly 1966
be wae living in Puerto fico and vee sseociated with JURE.

“Qa Rabale way be fidentleal te Feliz Lebelg Hae whe vas & sem-
ber of tho SPHE-Alpna-06 4a Puerto Meo. ang supported
Voolena’e faction of that group.

®, Veofans is probably: Antonfo Yestena Sianch, « forsee leader
-. OF Aipha-66, .

 

- Guedes may be identicas to Eniifo Guede who was yeported :
to be a momber of the Culle Delegation of JURE in July.
3966, He wae beliewai vo de identical with tmilis Guede
‘Fernandes. Ace. “UP 7473)

 

2. COMPEDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN
HO PORLIGN DISSEHK

 
   
   
 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

SECRET

?
:C4¢ : Cubea

Gee cr Status: Enigre.

Pinay del Rio, Cuba.

 

  

@ee OF Status: - inigre:
Political Studies (cce!

 

5 Seone 76 Ape..26, Vietoria- de
Cuban

.€8e a
Ove or Status: Mexbar of the

Studle

 

Hace:
Brose is Oct 26, Cuba
Cle ¢ Coben

Gove cr Status: Member ef the

 
 

Correspondence secretary
Center for Political Studies (CCEP) in Pusrto Ries.
Bay be idem u/Felizs ZABALA Has, OFOR:

Meabe
°F fn Puerto Bles,

| Kamas XABOR dasti, Antonio’ Hieber

¢ccEP) in Puerto. R
NECIAHA Blanch, Aatonto

Studies _ terre) in Puerto

 

   

 

     
       
  

 

ef Cubes
18 Get 37,

 

 

      

 

   

x of the Cube Conte fer

            
  

 

 

leo Tunas, Ordeate
Cuban Center for Political
Ries. a ;

        
       
   
    
       

 
 

sha o Center for Political

    
 

ing 10460-10064]

REPORT COVER SHEET: PROCESSING ACT Om

Cocga ence’

wetal® FoR istsies
Givomtinag oesicce” . BO imetates Requlaso .
i ! OF8 Gare ecrontes steanareiy

 

eS Sressermatica

TREE StesHMaT ION
1

FsaLO Oisra eur +e

Sources dereription. The ?le
WAVE files. Ie will
field comment 16 vas not dies

Index
‘Renee PURER Genes, Sarique
Sex ¢ # :

i Sncorrectiy identified es head ef Cuben Ceater
: for Politica’ Studies (CCEP) ‘in Puerte Rien, {mn UFG-8826,
Should have read Eorique KUME2 Alvares. :

: murs Alvareas, Bariqus
A9 Row 38, Hevene, Cube ”: ce
Cuban :
Gee oF Status: Talgre. Coordinater ef the Cubes Center for

Politioal Studios &CCEP) $n Puerte tice, Incorrectly
~, Gdentifded dn Urc-ce26 ag Enrique SUBER Cones

ROtToNe

Backgrouirid Use Only
‘Do Not Reproduce

’

 
 

 

COAPISZSTLAL
CORTHOLLIE AI ssics
0 TORLICH LISSA

  
  
    
      
     
   
       
         
          
         
         
     
       
         
     
      
  
        
   
   
 
   

Cubs

3. Pless of tke CCEP to Hold @ ;
Congress in fobruary 1967 36 August 3966

2. Possible Disbanding of JuRE 3

Early August to 29 Angus 1966 oe

United States, Hienl ,
"(42 to 2% August 1966) ; UTG-6628

& Coban enigre with exce}}snt -Coatacts fa several enlgre organt-
fations in Mies, he has been an eccurete reporter oa those
organisations and on general onigve political developeeats
Since about aide 062.

‘Bepresentatives of the tian’ and Puerto Rico ehapters of tha
Centre Cubano do Eetudies Politicos (CCLP. Cuden Center for
peri gtca Stutice) met in San Juan, Puerto Vico, an 20 August

19665 to etart saking plana to held a CCLP eongroas. Gn the
@erning af 20 August, three

‘oi wenbere of the Puerte

Rieo delegation far prelininary die- ‘
cuselone on the azenda for the afternoon meeting. At thle aeet-

.. ing Rufo Lopes Fresquet, a leader of the Puerto Rico ehepter.
_~ wes censured for his ~irreconeiiable pooition regardiag the
' “@xeluaiveness" of the proposed eonpross.z Manuel Pay Rivero,

that Lopes’ attitude would disrupt the prep.
jeopardize the effeativonses of the congreas
_ he is prepared to disband
| Cuban Revolutionary Junta). but will not do s® until there Is
' @@agurance that the CCEP will

Lopez received applause unen he addressed the group, and
promised te refrain froa

and to devote hie time and energy toward making the congress
@ gucceas. os

 

 

The following ezreomenta were: reached ‘at the afternoon meeting,
which was attended by about 20 senders of the Puerto Rico
ehapter and the three delegates from Hianl:

 
 

&. The Congreso Ravoluctonarie Cubano (Cuban Revolutionary
ay reas) will be held in Miami from 2 te 5 February 1967.4

: CONFIBENTIAL
CONTKOLLED DISSE -
HO FOREION bISsEK

   

 
74-00000

 

~fE-5aha

Tle egenea, amg Jules powersine tae olicivasity weseirenezts
for atteacence. walk cu + ho pared La acwence.~

So A “leclaration ef Princisles® of tue CCLP. which will set

Forth the purpose ans poele of tre organization, will te
written. .

i

G. CCLF esaptero will be catablinnac in kew Yerk, Los dageles, :
' and Chicago, aad im Caracas. teresvala. i

a. Has Lesnich: henandes, @ tiani delegate, vag dealensted te prepare
@ ve,ore on the results of the aeeting wnich will Le su@itiod :
to the fuerte Aico CCEP for approvwel: after woten @ publie |
Gi: nouRcerent- on: tke positica of tow CCLP will de aade.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
 

 
 
   
     
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
    
 
    
     
 
 

&, Before the Miami delegates went to Pucrte Rico. the sssbera of
the CCLP ia niaud held ciscusslons te votermine tie position
@f theie organization of the to,ies which were to be olscussed,
88 wae agrecd that the Niaei chapter would favor holuing @
GorcTeae whieh would be solely for the purpese of coneolidating
and advenaing tne CCLP. fre creation of @ Partiae de la
Bavelueion Cubana (PAC. Party of tie Cuvan Beyolutian). a pre- — .
aud political Ferty, Should not be considered at the congress.® . _...
© early Auguot sone aender'a ay the Puerte Rico chapter espressedg
their agreeuent with the position of te Niaws chayter, :

 

'» Oe Tn ecditien te Lopes and Ray, tne following mon were among, the

Geiezetes of the Puerto Aico chapter who attended the efternven—. |
weoting: . eo

Tupique Runes Alveres coordinator of the Puerto Bice cour

  
    
     
  
   
  

Felix Zabeia, correspondence secretary

1. no Antonie Veudana? ;
; Enilie Guedes?

Enrique Rodriguoa Brave:

 

 

Aantende Michel Yabor Justi
Field Comente

oa This meeting wae originally acheduled to be held in Mian
‘- from 2 to & July. (Cf. UFG-0626) .

 

3. A *aajor problea” between Lopes and Ray. appears to have been
resolved after lengthy aiscussions, at which other meabers
of the CCEP acted as modiators, in early August. .

‘Be. Althouhian earlier date was deaired, the” group wae unable ~

|. €® Ggree.on-a— date, Pay sald that a JURE euunion, whien

., @ovid not be postponed, was soheduled to be held during

. the third week of Joveaber, Gacember wae not considered .
because of the holivays, and, following that, January ‘is.

-" SPGRE paying a1] of the Coristmas billie.” ne

Go ALL wenters cf the CCEP will pa @ligible to attend the
. congress. A rapresentative of each of the two branches -
: WELL deterstine who will be daviged from areas where there
are no CCLP chaptora. CONFIDENTIAL, On .
: _  CONTKOLLED ptgnen |=
HO FOREIGN DIBSEM

 
