14-00000

EURO Kenji, KONAKA yotare, SAKAMOTO

PSURUSHIMA Sotsurei,
Yoshikazu, SAITO Masahiko, | etc. :

" Comraeaer “Although not recorded here, many ‘of the above persons.
“are (exndcP.

 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 

  
 
  

    
   
 

 

 

  
 
  
 
 
  
  

: ‘An ‘all ‘ight wv "teachin" vith: ‘[BEREINEN. netiviet leadors, a
“ glong with special guest, U. S. pacifist Carl Oglesby <Chafrnaa | of a
, the Students for a Denocratic Sectety.) eT -

 

 

“Be A guid page advertisement in the New 3 York Tines “as Novenber
1965) » followed by another full page ad in the Washington Fost. :
G April. 1987). appealing ta Americans to stop | the war An Vietnam. Dia
a

Mage A ‘Meet in Conference of Two Rations for Peace in Vietnam,"
7 hold in Tokyo in dugust 1866, and attended by EEHEIREN activists and ~
seven U.S. pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), and ebservers ,
- from France, England, Canada, the USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia. me

ee Be A ass meeting in Tokyo in October 1866, ‘guest ‘speakers of ;
; which were French pacixists, Jean-Paul Sartre and. Simone de Beauvoir.

/ 6. Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures ‘and peace rallies for
. such anti-Vietnan war pacifists as Professor Howard Zinn and the late
' A, 3, Hustea of the United States, Claude > Bourdet of France, and Thick
Bhat Hanh of South Vietnen. a ~ ———

-" @,° & mass necting ‘an Tokyo in January i967, sponsored sd by.
BSEBIREN and featuring U.S. folk singer and. pacifist Join Baez.
a

  
  
 

aa 8. A continuing progran of direct distribution of panphicts to.
U.S. troops stationed in Japan, and those coning to > Japan o on a WATSRADSs
a and for rest or hospitalization fron Vietnax. ky ;

9. ‘Participation by two BEHEIREN activist lenders | (yoto. ae
University professor KUWABARA Takeo and International House staffer -
TSURULI Yoshikyuki, taking advantage of a trip to the U.S..toe attend |
° ® HSD=political Japan-Aneriea Congress on Cultural Problemsy in. 7...
. anti-Vietuam war Bpeéch rallies Wid GemONstrations Ht Dartmouth «©. |

University in early May 1967, fellowed by an unsuccessful attempt nt
“£o davite Cassius Clay to visit Japan on ‘behalt OF BEBEIREN. no ges

“10.

 

 

  
 
 

Continuing efforts to bring * to > Japan zor a nat tonvide. se ct

  
14-00000

    
   
   
   
   
     
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
   

25. TERAL Minako = ~ acs a
26. ANAL Fusshike - |
“27. ; NASU Masann0 oa
98. MATSUMOTO Ichiju
, 29. FUKUTONI Setsuo aS
30. KORIHARA Yukio | | Poe oss = i
| Bi. eter ANDO Simbel, CHEDA SHIA Tio, EGAWA ‘Take, ‘FUSE Nittaten,
; many Echiro, HOSHINO Yasuseburo, ICEIX Sabure, IZEYAUA Juro, -.
2 ISHIDA Takeshi, RAKAT Yoshiko, KASAE Seiichi, EATAGIRI Yuzuru, —
“HATO Shuichi, KAZAMA-Michitare, MATSUURA Sexe, KIDOEORO lasso,

" KATANOJZ Satoshi, KOBAYASHI Shoichive, KOMATSU Sekyo,
‘KOBAYASEI Toni, KONO Osamu (Shu), KURODA Hidetoshi, BAROYAMA ,
“Masao, MIDORIKAWA Toru, WIZUSAWA Yana, MORITAKT Ichiro,
: KUCHAKD Seikyo, NURAMATSU Hizo, NISHTO SIO Nobora, ROHURA Koichi, —
a OoosEt Teruo, orsuKorsy Yoshiko, SERIZAWA Tae, ‘SHIRAT Shinpel,
- SHINMIRA Takeshi, SHISHIDO Hiroshi, SUGIURA Hitsuo, SUGIYAMA ~
“‘Tatsunaru, SUZUKI Kasahira, TAMSUCHI Yoshitono, WADA Nagahisa, —
- YAMADA Munenitsu, YAMADA Toshio, YAMAGUCHE Kosaku, YANANISHI -
Bisehs jichi, YASUDA Takeshi, | YOSHINO Gonzabusc, YOSHIWARA Kotchizo,

|“ OKAMOTO Taro, MATSUMOTO Seicho, BI Rokusuke, LZUUI Taku, ance
“AWAYA Noriko , KATO Yoshiro, SHTROVAMA Saburo, TARABASHI
7 ; Taketono, ODAGIRI Hideo, ORUKA UMA Hinoru, SANO Kenji, SUZUKI
Michsniio, KUBATA Sa SHINGHARA Seiei, MARUYAMA Kunio,

SEGRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  

‘Active. DBEASIREN Supporters or Sympathizers

“‘SOSHTKAWA Yuichi coousinEN Becretary 7 Genorad) ” former sop
oe member. * ;

. ODA Makoto (sameinex ¢ Cuatrean) ~ ‘popular novelist. :

 

. RATKO Kon - Akutagava prize winning novelist.

 

‘“@. KUBO Keinosuke ~ film producer and director

————aen—norwr—ee

8. TSURGET Shunsuke ~ Doshisha University professor. oe
eee

"TSURUMY Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (ehoir father ie the late e- -
“philosopher, Yusuke). ces, a . a

FURUYAMA Yozo ~ bigh school teacher. a -

 

  

- HUTG Iehivo ~ oxauce (tried to ‘travel to U. 3. to ‘yepresent . 2
o denied 2 visa ta enter the U8) “ee year e eat “ae
9.. YAMADA YAUADA Atsushi ~ exsICP, n
10. FUSUDA Yoshiyuki - playeriter.
AL, TOAINAGA Ichiro - cartoonist. —
12... FUKASAEU uitsusada ~ professor;
13. AaVAZU Kiyoshi - ~ , graphic designer.
Ads. TAKADO Kanane ~ Christian leader.
15. YOSHIDA Kiju - ~ £32m director.
16.° UMIHARA shun ~ writer. .
17. HASHIMOTO ineo - Budghist priest
18. HOTTA Yoshie ~ novelist."
8. GOTO Hiroyuki ~ scientist. SP yada
0. KQWABARA Takeo ~ - professor ‘at Kyoto University. . - a

    
       
   
  

 

 

 
14-00000

   

     
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

 

{- * ’ : :
It Becare an Incident: But instead ° returning to
tneit oe of their own volition or being apprehended by. the
- Bhare Patrol, the four made contact with BEBEIBEN leaders.
Agein, press reports indicate that this was just a coincidence,
: that there was nO pre-planning by the four to contact BEEEIREN,
There are no available overt aor covert reports that indicate
otberwise.: But, once the BEHEIREN people made contact, they |
gnized the potential dmomediately and moyed fast for the .
Rdll. (Attachment 4 ie a Yomiuri Newspaper clipping, 22 Nov- .
‘ember 1967, that is both a representative and comprehensive
account of thia phase of the case. Even if this articic :
should contain some minor inaccuracies, the basic iine seems -
factual and bas: not been Challenged cisevhere.) .

 

“3° " BENEIREN Takes Over: When the four made contact with
pEnerneN, St suddenly becaze an entixvely different baligane. |

BEHEIREN had everything needed to capitalise on this: veteran
activist leaders who are experienced enough to recognize the
windfall that had come their way; an apparatus that could

 

provide hiding places for the four; st BE - Liaison |
contacts with Soviet Embassy officia for use in pienting
exit from Japan; solid conta relinabie. American

pacifists with whom the bona fides of the four sailors could .
be checked; money and organization to capitalize on the _ - ~
propaganda potential (such as preparing a movie film for the -
initial BEREIREN press conference announcing the desertion,
prepared more likely than not by BEHEIREN stalwart_EUEO . -
_Eeinosubke, an independent fiim producer)} and English speaking
activists capable of sympithiging, encouraging, soothing, or -

agitating the four young sailors, * 80 that there would t bo a
turning back. .. . .

     

- The REEDIREN | Apparatus At At Work: ‘While many of the one
enn * pieces Gf this puzzle, shich would put the whole case ‘in
proper detailed chronological order and eliminate speculation
on minor points, are still missing, enough ia known now, -
through overt and covert sources, that the picture of BEHEIREN's
adept handling of this case shines through clesrly. The follow-

dng Glements, al) part of the BEERIREN apparatus, make. up the Lon
bulk of the picture: - a te 2 ;

    

y Hide-out: When PENEIREN got hold of the four ‘on -
about 26 October, they had to he hiden out for the approrinate
two week period until their exit from Japan could be arranged.
This presented BEHEIREN no great logistical problem. A number
of the BESEIREN activist leaders have homes well suited to ~

. harboring fugitives. Yor example, BEHEIREN activist leader .-

’ FURASAKY Hitsusada bas 2 villa hidden away in Chigasaki, which
was used on the night of 12 September for 2 meeting of about
20 op BEREIREN 5 leaders, and which would be highly suitable ‘
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 

‘for hiding the four deserters. Other private.d —
jonging to BEREIREN leaders and loyal Oe rT oa
: throughout beth the Kanto and Eansai areas.

. Le) BEMEIREN/Sovict Linison: PELEYREN Secrotary Genera
“YOSHIKAWA has maintained periodic contact with Soviet Embassy.
officials for years. BEREIREN Chnirman ODA hes met Soviet
Peace Committee officials in Moscow, The exact means of how
this Jiaison was accomplished in this case is precisely—Ln

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘+ 4 @) BBEBBIREN/U.S. Pacifist Linison: BEHEIREN contacted
Dartmouth University professor Ernest P. Young, who flew to.
Japan om & November, apparcntly helped BEEEIREN leaders chock. .
out the bona fides of the deserters, and returned to the U.S.”
on 11 Nevember. (Attachment 5 is,tho translation of a Sankei =...
Shimbun article, dated 21 November, reporting an interview cae,
with Youngs giving his version of his role in this case. >. C ;

 

 

“8. Esca te Hoscow: ‘The four deserters turnea up in ot
- mozcow On 20 Novenber. The press his speculeted widely and ~~.
“gnanimously that the four left Japan on the Soviet passenger. -
._ Ship Baikal on 11 November. Again, there ig no dissenting «= _
opinion, overt nor covert. The only mystery concerning this .- _..
finzl phase of the Japanese portion of this case concerns the |:
- mechanics of how the four boarded the Baikal and who assisted
. in this maneauver. But with the sailing of the Baikal from. -

beautifully executed activity in its 2 1/2 year history. Not. ° ~

dapan, not only did BEHEIREN gain a vast amount of priceless -
: publicity that will swell the ranks of its supporters and be |.
- dnvaluable in future activities, but BEZEIREN doubtlessly ~:.
even made a profit, financially, on this low budget operation °
_ donations are still’ pouring into SEESIREN Headquarters from _
‘gll over Japan to “help and protect U.S.. deserters. a?

 

    
 

   

   

~ SEeREr
- 27 November. 1967,

USMORANDU FOR THE RECORD: es ee
SUBJECT: BSHEIREN and the Four U.S, oy Deserters a

“ortesn ana and Dovelopent t of BEHBIREN

oe Founding: - BEHEIREN (Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Com
was organized in ei ae EEE
Gndependent group of intellectuals and cultured persens whose .
purpose was “to help restore peace in Vietnan.” Actually, it”
is a loosely organized group of eox-JCP members, progressive.
intellectuals, leftist cultured persons, and leftwing students |
~ banded together in the name of opposition to the Vietnam war.
by two common denominators, dedicated anti-Americanism and=; _
vefusal to be dominated or controlled by the orthodox x Japan
Communist Party. ~ ..

G Be Rard-Core Secretariat: - “the real ‘force behind the.
organization of BEHSIREN, right from the beginning -to the.
present, has been a brilliant Communist named YOSHIEAWA.
Zuichi whose conspiratorial organizational skilis bavé -

een perhaps the most indispensible ingredients in BEREIREN's
development. ‘YOSHIKAWA was expelled from Tokyo University
for his role as a ZENGAKUREN leader in the 1960 0.S./Japan ”
Security Treaty riots. He then went into fulltime JCP uass”
movement professional work, becoming the Secretariat officials
in charge of international relations for the Japan Peace :
Committee. YCSRIRAWA breke with the JCP in late 1964, .
followiug the rupture in relations between the JCP and CPSU

n May that year. The inspiration for BEERIREN springs in’
large measure from YOSHIKAWA's personal desire te use his
organizational talents in countering the JCP and its Japan
Peace Committee. YOSHIEAWA, in addition to being a well .-
‘qualified English linguist himself, years ago surrounded
himself with a small following of similarly qualified -
licutenants, whom he brought along into BEREIREN to give
“him the necessary depth and experience to run this new ©

: YOSHEKAWA functions as BEHEIREN's Secretar

 

 
‘. ‘. be ROE CA
x .- a . ™ a

DISPATCH sO —==

net ae . .
uses FOR rect yre

 

 

7263

 

As noted in reference, forwarded herewith is a copy of the sub-
ject memorandum. Please note that the information in the memorandum

' Paragraph B. 4. b) is particularly sensitive and should only be

given properly restricted dissemination. ©. -
. Mark J. Li ‘ooL,
ATTACHMENT | )

. Memo dtd 27 Nov 67

- - Distribution

| ¢-® — C/SB Div w/l.cy attach .

“.. 1 = C/FE w/l cy attach | .
-[:. 1 = C/WOMUSE/ICG w/l1 attach

 

   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    

~- 3. Respectable Intellectual Front: Following funda-
mental Communist principles for Mats movencat wore, hosvor
‘than the JCP itself? follows these tenets), the ex-JCP :
organizers of BEREIREN kept themsclves in the background -
and lined up a number of prominent Japanese progressive. .
intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to front for
BEHEIREN. The choice of ODA Makoto, ex-Fulbrighter and —
popular young novelist, to be the chief front man - Chair-
man ~ Was an extremely lucky stroke for BEHEIREN. ODA has
‘taken to this grand-standing, front work like a duck to. 09°.)
water. It has given him 2 chance to give unbridled vent to: -
bis own latent anti-American feelings, puffed him up to the :
extent that he has been dubbed “the emperor” by other BEHEIREN .
activists, and given him at long last an ideological mission .
to pursue. ‘YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding
: OBA's ego needs and in infusing and indoctrinating ODA se.
_ that his words and actions take on sufficiently viruleat: -
" anti-Anerican overtones. ODA has served another vital... 9-0 ©
function for BENEIREN by recruiting a sizeable number of _
fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of BEHEIREN activists.
(Attachnent 1 is a listing of a number of those Japanese who
have been identified as active BEBEIBREN supporters or aympa~ ..
hizers. . : . oo eer Le S ath ft

  

 

 

 

  

\ 4. Organizational Development: In its 2 “1/2 year history, —--
BEERIREN has not appreciably changed its organizational format, ©.
although it has moved its office three times and modified its =.
mame even oftener. BEREIREN is not a “mass organization", be-° .
cause it has had no ‘sizeable popular backing to the present. -- :
timc. Its hard core, secretariat organization is run by = =...
YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants. Its public image, inteliectual
front is led by ODA, and given body by a score of like-minded me
‘intellectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAGA, who form the loose... -
. body of BEBEIREN's activist leadership... Under this BEDBIREN  ...
leadership superstructure lies a paltry base of enly several
‘hundred BEHEIREN “rank-and-file“;.supporters, mostly young = :
‘Japanese students. Organizationaily, EXHEIREN has no formal =:
‘genbership system, so its base of supperters is fluid and not...
precisely measurzble. However, the base support for BEHBIREN |
hss definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and made such. . *.
notable strides during the past summer that JCP Headquarters. =
officials finally feit constrained to note with concern that ~~
BEHEIREN was beginning to drain off a growing number of. pro- °°
gregsive youth who otherwise would have been absorbed into oo
_the JCP's own youth movement. BEHEIREN leaders:.have tried to
‘help this growth along hy setting up 3 youth section, calling
_ at "Young BEHEIREN.” BEERIREN's imaginative actions and.
“ publicity-conscious programs have been responsible for its
:; .gecent growth, and this period of growth seems to be now on

SEGRET

 

 

 

   
 

  
   
 
 
  
 

the verge of really ‘picking up speed. and momentum. “AB a result
_of its role in the case of the four deserting sailors, BEHEIREN °
‘has reaped bountiful publicity, has succeeded in touching a
.delicate Japanese public nerve of sympathy and pacifism, open =~: —
dng a floodgate of support for BEHEIREN from all over Japan. ae
When this case fades from the limelight, it is still most ~~.

“likely that a fair percentage of current Wave of popular :
2 rmanent mass bac

     

  
   
  
 

   

: Support its future activities, _

- §, Activities and Accom Lishmenta: ” REBEIREN has engaged”
-dm a number of propaganda actions, and participated in inter~ -

“national anti-Vietnam War activities. it has tried to co- -«-..
‘operate with certain front activities in Japan controlled by
the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to investigate War -
Crimes in Vietnam activitiés, which culminated in the Tokyo —
Court of last Atigust, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed.
by the JCP. In spite of this, BEHEIREN has churned along at...
: its own pace, with a continuing series of anti-Vietnan war.
_actions, most of.then related in some way to the American ~~ =o °)
pacifist movement. In this regard, BEHEIREN has succeeded in:
cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese contacts with the U.S.-
pacifist movements, and has effectually capitalized on this to
promote its own action program. The case of the four deserting .
sailors, while an apparent lucky windfall for BEHEIREN, only ~
points up the fact that BERSIREN, through past organizational |
work and promotional activities, was “johnny~on-the-spot", ._.
ready and capable (unique in Japan in this regard) to take
the ball and run with it. BEUEIREN ran all the way in this”
| ease and scored its most notable success since it was organized.” :.
: (Attachment 2 is a Listing of BEEBIREN's more notable activitios | . ae
since its founding. Attachment 3 is a partial listing of. re
American and other foreign persons known to have been coal :
contact with or cooperated with BEHEIREN.) ..

  

        
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 

   

 

  
   

   

: Be ~ The ‘Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and PERRIREN”

~ de Bow Zt Started: The consensus of all available overt | ;

‘media material, with no recorded dissent, indicates that the =|
‘Zour sailors voluntarily left their ship, went AWOL, and ended:
up wallowing around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what ‘personal ;
grievances prompted the four to embark on this mise-adventure is .~
not yet known. But, up to this point, the four could fairly be |
_ categorized aa misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign ©
..dand, and due to get slapped back in line with traditional . -
‘Navy justice when they finally decided to stop the fun and BO oe
‘back to the shape 2 _ So for, this made their cases far from Ps

"unique. | we ONS,

 

 

 
 
 
  

   

 
