104-10216-10175 .

i j

 

advise him what he can do along these lines. In order to give
CASTRO some answer AMWHIP/1 informed them that probably the :
best they could do would be to mint gold medals which could then
be sold outside of Cuba. (AMWHIP/L feels even this would be
difficult for them to arrange but felt he had to give some kind

of an answer.) CASTRO has extended an invitation to AMWHIP/1 to
visit Cuba for 15 days so they could discuss the above business -
(AMWHIP/1's comment: "Thanks, but no thanks.") Before and after
discussing the details of his jewelry deals, AMWHIP/1 asked that
the record be made abundantly clear that he would not and will not
buy any more jewelry if he is so asked by the USG (1.e., if USG
doesn't want him to do so). AMWHIP/1 states that these deals have
and will continua to give him an excellent entree with the Cubans
but for the record he also wishes to state he does make a profit
from it.

13. Ambagsador CARRILLO: AMWHIP/1 does not feel we could success-
fully approach CARRILLO at this particular time. CARRILLO is very
wuch impressed with higposition and the confidence CASTRO has
placed in him. CARRILLO is responsible for the coordination of

; the work of all of the other embassies in Western Europe, what

H could be called the Supervisory Ambassador for Europe. Hie contact
i with the Spanish Embassy in Paris is extensive and he is playing a
4 wajor role in expanding Cuba's trade with Europe, especially Spain.
: CARRILLO is opposed to and speaks against the old line commmists,
i] © espectally Anibal ESCALANTE and Blas ROCA, (AMWHIP/1 feels CARRILLO
£

Le

thee linebemaslithvenistnee

Sear aT e a

4e very pro-Spanish and anti-commmist but at this time yot anti-
FIDEL.) Regarding the role recently played by CARRILLO regarding

-9e

 
104-10216-10175 .

y ‘ *

 

US-Cuban relations, AMWHIP/1 is certain that CARRILLO wae acting
on orders from Fidel, According to AMWHIP/1 in such matters as
this, no one in Cuba today, including CARRILLO, would dare act
on his own. Upon his return from Cuba, CARRILLO was much less :
interested in the subject of veaching an understanding with the -
U.S, AMWHIP/1 again interprets this as orders from Fidel, When
AMWHIP/1 asked CARRILLO about the subject after his return,

“ CARRILLO passed it off by stating that as long as the U.S. con-
timed its azeressive moves against Cuba, nothing could be done

%

until they were willing to sit down and discuss the matter as
equals.
14, The Marcos-Rodriguez Trial: AMWHIP/1 stated most of the
info he received on this subject from ROBRENO should be one one
of the tapes. In summary, ROBRENO told AMWHIP/1 that Faure Chomon
got the letter which he later made public from his contacts inside
the DSE, Fidel was furious with CHOMON for making the letter public
but once he had and the trial developed, Fidel took CHOMON's side

| in the affair. After the end of the trial, CHOMON and AMLASH/L
epent two days at Varadero with Fidel fishing. Because of the
circumstances, Fidel was forced into the position of siding with
CHOMON but according to "E1 Mago” ,CHOMON is not deceived that

Fidel will ever forgive him for ®ocking the boat" and causing the
uproar in the PURS. There never has been and never will be any love
lost between CHOMON and Fidel, (On the surface Faure CHOMON came
out unhurt from the latest crisis, If anybody was hurt, it was the
old line commmists, especially Edith GARCIA Buchaca. )

cpa ews te

 

 
104-10216-10175

rr

of jevelry valued at approximately $50,000.00 each to AMWHIP/L
through the Embassy in Paris. AMWHIP/1 paid 1,287,000 Sw fres.
for the first package of Jewelry which he bou; ht. In addition
to the package which was valued at $300,000, there was an addi
tional package of jewelry valued at $10,500.00 which AMWHIP/1

also bought. The Cuban Embassy in Paris deposited the Swiss’

francs in the Banque Nord d'Europe on either 12 or 19 May 1964,

(AMWHIP/1 was not sure of the exact date.) In the Cuban Embassy .

in Paris, TOLON, the code clerk, was the actual custodian of the
Jewélyy.
‘ (TOLON - married; colored. Lives with his
wife in the Embassy. He has been in Paris approxi-
mately eight months but AMWHIP/1 did not know
. . exactly.) He seldom leaves the Embassy. According
to AMWHIP/1, he is the custodian of the Embassy and
the code clerk. AMWHIP/1 says he is a simple, good~
natured sort of pYeasant. AMWHIP/1 had the opportunity
of talking to him several times as the jewelry he in-
pected and later bought was kept at ths Embassy
by TOLON, )

When AMWHIP/1 decided that he would buy the jewelry, the Ambassador

(CARRILLO) did not have the authority to close the deal. A cable
was sent to Pepin SANCHEZ in Habana for approwal.. According to

CARRILLO and IGLESLAS, Fidel has boxes of gold (no details), which

he wants to make into objects of art and sell. He feels this way
he-can expect better returns from at, CASTRO wants AMWHIP/1 to

-8.

4

 

 

‘|
4
4
1
104-10216-10175 ,

SOR hatin mee

draft at the Banque Nord d'Europe where he would be given the
$9,000.00, CASTRO informed IGLESIAS that this money was to be
spent in any way IGLESIAS so desired and was being given him for
arranging the jewelry deal with AMWHIP/1. IGLESIAS was also given
@ trip to Eyrope where AMWHIP/1 was in contact with him. According
to AMWHIP/1, IGLESIAS, before Castro, owned the largest jewelry
store in Habana. His business was confiscated by the State and
IGLESIAS filed a suit against the government. During his visit
with CASTRO, IGLESIAS was asked by Fidel what he was doing, to
which IGLESIAS answered, "nothing since you took my business away
from me." Fidel then went on to say how stupid the people running
the Consolidedos were and promised IGLESIAS he would arrange for
his business to be returned to him after he returned from Europe.
In addition to 4,700 pkgs of jewelry which the government has con- —
fiscated, they also have original oi] paintings and a stamp collection
valued at $230,000.00 per the latest Scott catalog. According to
IGLESIAS, an English firm offered $1,200,000.00 for the jewelry,
paintings, stamp collection, and a collection of gold coins but
Fidel refused. Because of the bungling py his underlings, Fidel
end Celia Sanchez are personally handling this little project,

The jewelry, paintings, etc. are kept in vaults in the Beco. Nacl.

de Cuba, In the bank it 1s Pepin SANCHEZ, Celia's brother-in-law,
who is approximately 45-50 years old, who helps Fidel and Celia in
this project. According to IGLESIAS, Pepin SANCHEZ, regardless of
title, is the man who runs the Beo. Nacl de Cuba. Pepin is also
the man who personally handles the P26 bank account and -approves .
or disapproves sales, The Cubans want to continue to send packages

1

 

oFe

   
104-10216-10175 ,

’ fi 4 . oil

t
far sipeeenaioee wee ote

‘

According to AMWHIP/1, "El Mago” is the type of person known by
everyone and with the ability of talking to or going anywhere he

 

:

pleases; this being part of the ma.'s totally extrovert personality.
Because of this trait, AMWHIP/1 feels that "El Mago" will be able
to develop inforaation of interest. "El Mago" talked to AMWHIP/1

 

about the Cuban government's concern that the mails are being used

for intelligence purposes and also the need for postal controls

mentioned by Domingo PORTELA Placeres, Vice Minister cf Communications. |
AMVHIP/1 did not ask "El Mago" for details but reported that "El Mago" |
had stated the following: In order to try and control the problem,
‘Rabana has been divided into postal zones; each zone is issued and

patterns and tries to isolate zones from which suspicious letters
are mailed. They then intensify their efforts in the areas from
which these letters are mailed. The censors are especially alert

for patterns of suspicious incoming letters to a given address.
Based on an arrival pattern of suspicious letters, a more thorough
investigation 1a then made of the family living at that address. wpe
« (AMWHIP/1 could not £411 in any of the details regarding the above fo
but will question "El Mago" further on this subject the next time he ,
sees hin.)

10. According to "El Mago", the old PSP members control many of

the operations of the DSE, They have this control because they. .
organized and placed their people throughout the DSE structure. 7
The DSE has offices under cover in all parts of Habans. “El Mago” .
wentioned the use of a seamstress shop, for example. It is espe- ,
clally in these emall deep cover segrents where the old PSP exercias : | ;

a

sells a different series of stamps. The government tries to establish

~5-

 

mo

 
104-10216-10175

 

 

teen MITE Ye SOA IN et NK

sae

1,

Np a tet, gt Se a a ee oe ee
i fi AT aE el a i a
. . .

gt

ae ces

control. According to "El Mago" even Ramiro VALDES does not
realize the extent that his organization is penetrated by the old
cCommn’sts. Justo HERNANDEZ, who was recently in Paris, is a
member of the DSE and one of Ramiro VALDES secretaries. He is
approximately 38-40 years old; born in Cienfuegos.

11. Juan DAVID Fosada: JDP is Cultural Attache, Paris. AMWHIP/1
assesses DAVID as anti-comle, antieregime and possibly recruitable
Provided the right person is used to make the contact, AMVHIP/1
has a gift (tablecloth) from Juan DAVID which he asked AMIHIP/L

to give to his brother-in-law, Raul GONZALEZ Jerez (a Bay of Pigs
veteran) who lives in Miami and is the omer of the"21 Club" on
Venetian Way, Miami Beach. AMWHIP/1 was requested to personally
deliver the present to Raul-and assess Raul as the man we should use
in approaching DAVID. I£ we get a good assessment from AMWHIP/1,
‘Raul can then be approached independently of AMWHIP/1 (to protect
AMWHIP/1) and asked if he is willing ® travel to Paris and attempt
to recruit his brother-in-law (DAVID) in place.

12. Jose IGLESIAS: AMWHIP/1's Jeweler friend in Habana. IGLESIAS,
eccording to AMWHIP/1 is the source of the information regarding
Fidel CASTRO's bank account (26P) in the Beo. Nacional de Cuba.
IGLESIAS was the man in Habana who contacted AMWHIP/1 in regard to
the jewelry which Fidel CASTRO wanted to sell. When CASTRO found
out that IGLESIAS was the man who arranged the deal,he called

IGLESIAS to his office, gave him $1,000.00 in cash and a bank

draft from the Bco. Nacl de Cuba on which was written “Cuenta

(account) Fidel Castro Ruz 26P to the name of Jose IGLESIAS $9,000.00,

Banque Nord d'Europe. IGLESIAS was told by CASTRO to present this

~6-

 

ete 3 hows tr

  
 
104-10216-10175

 

 

3. Dr, Raul PORTELA, whom OROPESA mentioned tn his letter as

Setill his friend," according to AMWHIP/1, ‘Dr, PORTELA worke in

one of the hospitals in Miami. He believes it is Sinai mt is not
certain. The telephone number in Miami is CA 6-0113. Dr. PORTELA
is married to Vivian RODRIGUEZ Favar. (Check this Dr. PORTELA aa

it previously thought Dr. Raul PORTELA was at present in Spain

and listed with Isr.)

4. The letter from AMLASH/1 to AMWHIP/1 was hand-carried by "El
Feo" CARBONELL. The original letter was obtained from AMWHIP/L

in order to check it for possible S/W from AMLASH/1. (No SM in
either AMLASH/1 system or AMTRUNK/10 system). CARBONELL accompanied
the basketball team to Paris,

5. Mare SIEGEL: AMWHIP/1 was asked that if and when SIEGEL visits
New York City, AMMHIP/1 should find out what SIEGEL’s current :
situation is in Brazil, who he knows in Cuban community, what cire
cles he travels in, and how active he is in these circles. In
brief, a new assessment of SIEGEL's position and potential,

6. SE} Mago ROBRENQ: AMWHIP/1 offered to help, if needed, in
transcribing the two tapes of his conversation with “El Mago”.
AMWHIP/1 stated it was too bad he could not have had another session
with "El Mago" but the hotel room was available for only one day
and evidently, according to AMWHIP/1, the people in Paris were
unable to arrange for another hotel room, AMWHIP/1 spent at least
15 days with Ambassador CARRILLO and the other Cubans in the Cuban
Eabassy in Paris, He claims he was with them every day and feels
thet much more could have been accomplished had he had closer

. direction and supervisicr while he was there. So many things

o2e

 
104-10216-10175

2

&

tae

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)
- NW 53217.6/20/17 .

 

CONTACT REPORT:

PERSONS PRESENT: Bew York Gity, AMWHIP/1's .ffice, .
31 W 47th Street, 4 June 1964, 1200-1630 hrs.

PURPOSE: To debrief AMWHIP/1 after his recent trip
to Europe, especially the Paris aepect of
the trip and, in particular, his contact
with H/2,

  
  
  
 

1. AMWHIP/1 was given the new sterile phone mmber in WH/SA front
office - 628-1899.

2. The letter from Manolo OROPESA (Cmdte. Pedro Enrique OROPESA
del Portal) was discussed with AMWHIP/1. AMWHIP/1 stated that

the letter had no o-her meaning than to introduce the two basketball
players. from the University of Habana, Pacheco and Davis, to AMWHIP/1.
ste there were any-underlying reason why AMLASH/1 did this, it would
only be to point out his relationship with OROPESA. -According to
AMWHIP/1, OROPESA 1s a good man, anti-Commmist, and a very close
friend of AMLASH/1, He was in the Escembray during the fighting
with AMLASH/1. He is approximately 26-28 years old, Chief of the

 

will use at the proper time. Juanito IZAGUIRRE is also a good
friend of AMLASH/1 and of AMWHIP/1, He does not have an important
position. He previously worked in AMWHIP/1's jewelry shop in Habana.
AMWHIP/1 believes he is now unemployed but a trusted friend of
AMLASH/1 whom AMLASH/1 uses for small jobs and errands of a confi-

dential nature. “SECRET

-l- “a
104-10216-10175

¢ ~

‘

 

were talked about that he has been unable to remember all the

 

details. AMWHIP/1 suggests we give him a porteble tape recorder
or some other meass by which he could record all his conversations
‘', with these people. (AMWHIP/L'a experience during this past trip.
point out the need of sending a C/O from HQS with him if maxima
advantage is to be gained from his contacts with the Cubans. He
needs close guidance and direction and not only expects it but
welcomes it.)
7. “El Loco" IBARRA: According to "El Mago" it now appears that
"E1 Loco" will mt be coming to Europe.

8, S/W Training of "El Mago": AMWHIP/1 was trained in Paris and
in turn trained "El Mago" in S/W. In order to cover his knov ledge
about S/W, AMWHIP/1 told "El Magoe® that he had learned this partic-
ular system from contacts in Brussles who are in the international
diamond business. AMWHIP/1 feels "El Mago" did not question the
above story. When AMWHIP/] left Paris, "El Mago" was planning to
travel to Spain and agreed to write a practice S/W letter to
AMWHIP/2 in New York. The letter from "El Mago" will be addressed

_. to AMWHIP/1's personal address (in New York). (Paris Station did

, "Not give AMWHIP/1 the New Jersey accommodation address sent to

Paris by HQS. "El Mago" expects an S/W letter from AMWHIP/1 during

' his stay in Spain. :

 

 

ae ete tn pene annem gone a tae ee nea er cae TE nL nme aban Lut cite

 
104-10216-10175 , .

9. SEL Mago" Plana: "El Mago" plans and hopes to be able to
return soon to Cubs, AMWHIP/1 feels that after an appropriate.
“—~ eooling off period, "EL Mago" will be permitted to return to Cuba.
During Ambassador CARRILLO's recent trip, he talked to President

DORTICOS in "El Mago's" behalf, using the ploy that after all,
"El Mago" was one of their people, Proven by the fact that he had
reported "El Cojo’ ROCHE's“atteapt ‘to recruit "El Mago" on behalf —
of the Americans. According to CARRILLO, DORTICOS reportedly stated:
"Oh, yes, we know all about '£1 Cojo! ROCHE, His activity has also
been reported by Ambassador MARISTANY and by MAS in Chile. We
know all about his activity," AMWHIP/1 believes "El Mago" will
be able to return to Cuba as his political loyalty is not questioned
and the seme reason he left Cuba was more of a personal nature (beat-
ing his wife, getting into fights and landing in jail because of

_ this.) Regarding "El Mago'e" relationship with AMLASH/1, AMWHIP/1
does not believe "El Mago" is aware of AMLASH/1*s contact with
ODYOKE. "El Mago" is aware of AMLASH/1's antieregime plans, ie
trusted by AMLASH 1 and AMTRUNK/10. AMWHIP/1 feele that if "El Mago®
returns to Cuba, he can be counted on to maintain his S/W contact
and report the situation of the AMLASH/1 group. AMEHIP/1 briefed

MEL Mago" not to tell AMLASH/1 about their S/W ae he had offered
this S/W system to AMLASH/1 and he brushed it oft as not wanting to

bother with it. "£1 Mago" agreed.

  

wAering ws

Cote

ea

menace
fon

shee gen

Eodnas seca
SOR SARA UN ALORS

1s ogee
gab ink aa

sheen

ao MN eal ep'y eae Io
RDB cen ort pemenegenare conga ant

oo

 
