 

October 23, 1977.

REPORT ON VERA IVCHENXO

SN RES EO ee
pes ‘.

he ¥ oe

ba : we :
es

  

Meeten Sonam eRe Lot

Following your request, me heve cellected the follening bits of
information th regerd te Bebert Webster's girl friead from Heacow.  -

Rar weme is Vere Iveasovay Iveheuke. Ghe ts $2” tall,
She Was a resad" face, small nese end fely skin. He adds that she wes
awall Breasted, but Sad broad hips. Be soted her shee size te be less
than 7 (Weester hed borght shees size 7 for her -~ they were too large).

Yera wes expleyed ia ane of three restaurants of the (iraine Rotel
ae an tulerpreter (Americas) and hostess. Sag lives aleae with ker sether
is waat fe kacwa sa a comeunal aperteest, (This lafermatioa wes glyee by
beth Yera and Hedster), Shu also told thet she has one slater who Ras
twe childrez, Ste sid that her education was gf @ highschool level,
aad that ghe taugut Eaglish in a correspesdence school.

It epgeared te Sem that she seewed to be very frieadly with the
follewing weltresseg at the Ukreiae Hotel ~ Lena, Shura (both abort 36").

The last aight ef the Americas Ice Show there had been a party et -
the reateurgat, There waa @ greep pletare takes, skewing her holdiag 5
couple ef shildren of the American perferucra.

Vers epparently resisted Websters advances fer @ Boat.

wees

oF

Cael” gis deseriptioa of Vere tas $°2-3", attrective, but on
the Guay Ske presented u cleas eppearmes, dressed well. He said
she spoke qeed Eaglish. She had potsee and wea very cooperative. . He neted
her reuad face, dark betr, estimated Ber bust size 34, with large ips.

He said ste was is the adalalstrative grep of the two dounsteire
Festaurants, He also added that she apparently attended the espera frequestly.

‘SHRP-PERSON-TO-PERSON eee
Leer ne
NEED-TO-KNOW BASIS ieaap’ SECRET Page of 2 Pas

Repreturtion af Ue deerwmest fa whaler ty oh Os

pant be comblbeend aoe

 
 

[tow-otet-t01za

 

        
   
 

INCLASSTFLED ©" T7] [ATERNAL _ 1. NFIDENTIAN, =). Secret
- ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET i

28 October 1959

 

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment te show from whom
whem. Oraw @ fue across. column after gach comment}

igonb re crf a
So (lal fh hotel
dy hi wre C Crew L,

on Wenewsto,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Se, 610 “ase j
SE

5, GOVERSEEST ranting OFFICE Ire 3 = areret

CO Secret © [] CONFIDENTIAL 0 tty UNCLASSIFIED

_RETURNTO "~
pag UF

Ved
14-00000 Ve

2 SECRET
; , BHP -279-55
ee Octoner 23, 1957, :

. age-2

 

&, Xing - wis description of Vera was 5°Z", approx. 130 pensda,
with chastaat brews heir, nicely bullt, with light ceaplexies. He deseribed

hor heir-de es western style. .

; Be said she manoged one restaurant. Sho. ned been an English teacher
rman at the University of Bencew, else taught correspondence acheal CburEG.

She had worked as faterproter at « mevie-stedia in Wescou. King”
saldme Gade no attempt te date er try te be dated, He also seid thet
Webster has pictures ef har. : wo

a He says that she wore @ sary blue suit with a alte
blease most ef the Time. He eatiaates her being 5 2° tall, with sedis
light brew) heir, fair complexities, weight ~ aboat 159 pouds...fsir side |

bust, with large Alps. Sho spoke English fairly well, He felt her
aenaor reserved, but pleagaat. aad she seeusd like a nico type of person.

 

We one. eppreached him fer a date, sor did he approach anyone ~ althoagh
he felt that the giris seased te be “avaliable”. Yers worked ta the

restauraat oa en every~other-day sciedalo.

She attesded the ballet with Webster bat did set waat te be seea with
the rest of cur beys as it would be eaberrassing.

were cece

_ a6 . : :
~ Be estiaated her height ag 5'S", with dishwater dlaad
heir, light complexion, geed ivekiag, with saall busts end wediwa hips. .

He had s friead, Vera Ivcheak, ne relaties te Rebert Webster's
friead, althsegh the nexes are very sinilar, He wet Als (riead three or
four tines near the Kremlia oa Gert! Street. Griginelly he had met her
in a cafe tuo or three doors away from Araratt Bestacraat (Bed Square).

Webster hept his girl’s pletere eader glusa oa the bureay {a his
room (81901) of the Bete] Uxraize, :

  

SECRET Lb aypeatoss
- 2-PERSON-TO-PERSON to:

TED TAKNOW RACH i

nf
