 

2/py

= .

their Jesire x. to tumover the Souree and everyehin: that he had

brought to LVGG32) but thit thia waa a polkey tter whieh had to
>

2

bo resolved by the Canadian Goverment and not only by t)

 

This watter uate Lt sorewhot difficult to contuet tntorvicws with the.
Source because all of than wre taped by thef__ pind LANGUSCH had

to be Careful to avoil qusstions or ansuers which put obstacles in

the path of sccuriag the turwver of Gource and what he had brought

with hin, The Cinal decision of the Canndiat Government, after the
intervention of the Ottawa ctstion, ac thet tha Soucee and the documents

could be turned over but not the noncy,.

The Souree said thet the recounta for an Intellivence Officer in

the OGl are not cubgected to close inapeetion and that, in fact, he

fficer kn chacve of the Salvadorian

 

had the suthoriiy at alesh c

ater to reqiezt subceantirzl aounts for oper thins vithout say necd for
accountings, \ tyoieal ex-vple is thit he ceul' deav for every trainee

frou his own assigned are: g1222 vithout question, Ue did have to give

detailed accountin’s for ligser exoencituret,)
74-0000

2.

mecting relating to cevoicticnary activities, to db: carried out in
El selvador.) The So.rse thy tlis because it seercd to hin the best
vay -f yetting out of uta “ith cocuncats which hc had gathered, the
Source “as successful in convincing the Oeauty Chief of the Service thet
the operational acctin: in frague was a necessary follow-up to the
Source’: recent trip to iexico, hen Source preprred his briefease for
the trip oct of Guba he found that only a part of the documents which
he hac teen collecting would fit, he selected those which appeared
Tost Interestins and Icft the others locked in his office in the DGI,
It ws the Source's intertion to seck asylua once he arrived in the
frce world at the first stor in Canada and to request ke that he be
pemitted to go to the U.S, “ith the documeats to surrender then to
RUBAPI,

3. Source collected the documents over a period of time at
tonsiderable tisk becruse a nezber of the docunents vere in the possessica

eir Ceske of sales, Source naje it a custoea

 

of other CcIS officers in

 

to visit these offices snc to tae advantage of the tesnorary absence of
the officers acrigned to thoa to steal the Cocuments thich he then put in

his own safe,

 

. 4, The Source wss qeite worried tecause he feared that then he arri

At the air ort te loave Cua he sight be required to open his bricfcase,
This frar proved croun less, anc he vas able to leave Cuba on 21 April 65
on a €kisht for brace shich hv’ to top at Ralifax, Canada,

5, Prior to leaving Oba the Souree withdrew Crom his sovings

gecount in a Cubon bank all that he acd which accounted to 1270 G:ban

 

to bis ile whose nace is Luisa R0OnLGUcZ

 

pesos, He gave this <

u
id
&
4
"
ia
te

Rotrisuez (raiden nace sate dace). In ziving the coney to her
 

 

(roaore7-0tad
Re . Q “Pa oa. , Kgrcund Use
¥ a By ae Do Not Be Only

 

oe

   
 

2

 

\e visi atine JF ATUL

toby APM] and His Corments’ Coricerning

  

    
  

 

 

   

r Faquusts MELA to ansist bearer, “The

lott. ¢ Pa tas siven to NIU by the Ded: ty ‘Chief of OGL cre pastor) to oa a

°

Lnteodnes hin to the 3st effiecr assigned to Prague, “GUSTO” is pseudo

used within the DSL for the Desutr Chief whe is known in ‘the Ministry of

 

Foreign Relations as “CHAIN,

i JN XGel explained bat the head of the servieca, Mansel PINLLUO,

 

‘ went to Moscow an a trip lcaving Giba 1) April 2c, The Source (A-1)

reeently had vcturne! from Mexico an 23 March 196%, After the departure

: of PINELRO the Source tol the Deouty Chief that it cas neee sary for

: . him, the Source, to co co Prasue so that he could pect on 22 April with .
; Sobarto C\RTTLLGS DIEGO, the Sseeretary Genexal, DRAN in EL galvadors

: These are the true nose ant position of SARRILEAS but the Sonree invented

the reason for raking an over:eional m-oting in Pracue knowing that Lhe

Deputy Chief of the Service would not kno any better, (The Source had

 

mone te Mexico on 14 ? ~ 1564 for the puts se of holding a nesting

ty Exrom EL Salvador,

 

ILS and other rembers of the Ca munist

 

wilh CAR:
but the me ting reall: did not tase place becouse the Salvadovians failed
to arscar, In talking to the eouty Chief 6f the Service, the Source said
that he hada ‘neeting in texieco which made it necessary for hin to have a

mesting in Prague with CVLLILLAS, who had to be in Srzgue for still another

 
74-00000

wde

he did not say that he intended to defect and, in fact, never gaveckexe
_ had

nad given her any indication of his plane to co so, He kept her ignorant ~

of his intentions despite the fact that she and her fathcr- are opposed

to the Castro Regine because he felt it better Cor her not to be burdened

‘with guilty knowledge, In giving her the money he caid thot possibly he

would be delayed in rrague because the catter ha hil to discuss was
coaniicated, lo told her therefore that he voul! fect better knowing
thet she had su€ficicnt funds at hand to tthe care of any euersencics In
connection ith herself or her children (by a orevious marriace); a boy,
Vincente, 13 years ol, and a girl, Francisea, 12 ye>rs old,

6, The CUIS (DGL) sent a cabic to vraque to advise that the Source
vould be arviving, <Accordingly,' hen the Sourca leit the plans it Walifax
it --as a fovegone conel :sion t. tt his f1llure to crrive 43 sehecule? vould
be re vorted to his om Service,

7, In addition, when ths Souree did arrive at Half£ae tte pilot and
ere: of tres irplane and the other pac on ers besa e avers of the fict
that he had requ.sted asylun in the Cree cord, They called hin a traitor
shich led hin to state that he +28 no tere a traitor for leaving the present
Resins than Fidel Castro -s for op osins the Bitist1 Rezine, The inter»

ring on the

 

ats betvecn the Touree tnd thoss the trere eontir

 

enange of eo

 

flight to rrague Al-‘ost resulted in a fist Cichtat Naligax, The Source
took from Qiba 92615 in U.S. bitis . leactiecally all of this amount was
what re ained vo. the fve.ae ive: to hin by QOD vhea be vont to

fotte advo. 0 given hin Coc

 

Mexfeo: or chich he hat not acco.ted) »

the trip to Praia, “en he deglaved ai: ing aston cs QamadZan authorities
 

b/p/

nts
\

1

= i540 in Ancricaa

to remtin La dine oot oF meee

qrroncy (this receint is ales atcached), To difference of 375.59

?

that he had ds las poteek ooo wo Pa. expenses while fs ‘Saas'a,

 

tat in iis briefease 250 Salwatseian Colones |.

2 Dee
tid not given hia a reecipt. coaf poatieas’ bet tia sewun

ridow of tas Gandhan: covarment.)

 

tae grou ot

(Thea matte. ef Si: . sey whisk the Soares Aad trken,froa Giba L-ter

boca a probler vit!

   

i
N the Ganaliwns, lieely bacause on talkiag vith

tha Canadian Immigration Ssrvies tha Sourca indicated ehit the aoney

belonged to the Ghban covernment rither than te hinaelf, This «as

revorted io the Ginadian ceternal Aifairs OfCice ant lod to a cecisioa
by the Canadian Sovarment ty Sol’ the money --U,S. and Salvadorica—

she cubs. Governrent if resueset This

 

fe thit ie egtli we

 

decision of cosien ths S:urce -+

  

 

his angry an? at >

 

Newall mate
in ‘sureets oxinion, if the money wos returned ge it voult be used for

promotin,, rewoluitons in ths feos vorht which Inctu‘ad Canita, The

say
[7 Jesta Post in wb probehaiicy ena oney Youll not be metugnet to

s ogritier of von. 4 woul? be turned

_ m2 ,
soebee out that the (eos not

3) astived

 

the Quban Gorerrent and

    

over bo Kod uk. for return te

 

give it te the Source of

  

Jothat when Lot

e

Im this convection it shes) de not
A

in Canada no decision had >: a. to che disoositisna whieh seuld

 

be cade not only of che moncy Met also of the Jource himself anZ the!

 

 

 

 

th ohs bet in his cesesssion, The mL LAXAs

 

docuents

 
