14-00000

 

17 dy 1961.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Wi/l

 guaseot. -«t-—«wBARKZA, Bernard L. . i
“ (201-251689) 5

 

}

{

: ; 1, The Subject, an operational asset of both Havana station —”

- and DIE, is currently in the Washington, D.C. area at the

i 7 -  guggestiion of Hr. Howard HUNT, in an effort to resokve his citi--
“t genship statuse He was interviewed by a representative of ,

\ WH/l/SO-on 15 duly 1961 at the Shoreham Hotel to.develop all.
available background 4nformtion. concerning his loss of cltizen-

ve gare ammeter CARNE ARABI TE

citizenship by birth throuch the citizenship
traveled, not on a U.S. passport, but.on an
his U.S. citizenship... During vorld War IT, d r
Acuy Air Corps, was snot down on his j2th mission over Gernany

and wes a prisoner of war for 16 months. He was honorably ‘separated
as a Captains eo .

 

. 3. In 1950, along with several Coban-born, U.S. eltizens. who
were var veterans, he entered the Cuban police forces where his

ces ants memmecne samen ee

E
E
3
f
t
|

Embassy in Havana, and als

we

 

Marzaret on their visit to Cuba, for which: he rece:

i
bbe In BARKER'S. opinion, he becane the object of personal
.. spite'on the part of an unnaned Enbassy staft meniver, WES Yon
action te revoks his ‘ektizenship status based on mesbership in
od. the Cuban police. -In en effort to rectify his plight, Bre SPEARS,
* the Enbassy FEI representative, sont hin to Dr. Mario LAW,8 5
Jesding Havara attorney, to prepare the case for a ples twreain —
|

ceca Bite con sen gett AAMMERARAERB A SUERTE PS IS

Sparel p peasteet “t

gyre terete =

yn HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM -
CIA PI ELEASE AS SANITIZED
09

 

—_

rh

-"
(toetore3-t008@]

aay

>

    
   
   
     

 

a . rae
J USe OMY (1 © NFIDENTIAL secret *

> ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

bate
17 July 1961

   

| Copy, detached by, Often of C/WE/A

seaman canihinatimalisseemeabonme vin cs mnt

 
 

. . o7/ , re
- SEGLET
t : wf ode : . e

 

citizenship. According to BARKER's recollection, this occured : :
in 1953. Dr. LAZO compiled a formidable file on the Subject” i ,
and was in commmication with a Washington, D.C. legal firm, ‘
which BARKER dimly recalls as that of Edward Bennett WILITAIS,

who was te handle the case locally. A private bill was intro an ‘
duced in the 83rd Congress by Congressman WILLIAMS cf New Jersey, : :
to restore the Subject's citizenship, but BARKER does not know i °
why no action was taken'on the bill. At the time, he was in i
Cinancial difficulties and took a job as a tractor driver out- : ;’
side Havana for about § months, in which period he had no contact i

with Dr, LAZO, who, a3 BARKER believes, interpreted his failure
to appoar in the office as a lack of interest in pressing the case a
to @ successful conclusion. : i

. §. BARKER knows that Dr. LAZO and WILLIAMS had compiled a .
very lengthy and documented file on his background, including his .
wilitary record and awards from the Army Air Corps. Currently,
BARKER is traveling on a Cuban passport and is in the U.S. as an
"SP" paroled to Bernie REICHARDT.

6. The Subject pointed out that Dr. Mario LAZO entered the poe
U.S. about onth ago and is now in the Washington areas he t : t
believes |_ jis in contact with-him. He knows Dr. LAZO is + :
familiar with all details of his case and could confirm the
ddentity of the Washington attorney who handled the litigation.
Lonally. . BARKER recalls visiting the attorney's offices in Yash-
dngton on one occasion, and Bennet WILLIAMS. was the name he
recalled, He believed the lawyer was involved in the Smator
MoCarthy hearings.

- 9, Based om the above information, the following recomend-
ations ara mades. : :

Be He. Joe requested to ascertain from fr.
Mario name of the Washington law firm which hoadied
Subject's case in 1953, and the reason for the fadlure of the

ne Cee

 

cee tees en ee

       

 

special bin.
SEGRET ed
7 , ‘bt g166 3 ’
| - | ee
—— | :
0. end
74-0000

e e. . o~ van
ee" SECRET
Be

b. The Office of General Counsel be completely briefed
— on Subject's case and be requested to furnish guidance or
take appropriate action to asvist the Subject, whether by
special Tegislation or other means, to regain his U.S. citizenship.

DY ANS e,
ef, curity

  

  

oe cniguees nem ernment eterna te

 
