———

Gs) Gerald R. Ford Library

1000 Beal Avenue Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-2114

Date z duly 29, 1992

Reply tg:¢ Karen Holzhausen, Ford Library “8

Subject 2 Rockefeller Commission files: information

ro 2 , Steve Katz, Senate Committee on Government Affairs

Enclosed are the finding aid to the Rockefeller Commission files
we have processed, copies of all the withdrawal sheets, and some
explanatory information.

About the withdrawal sheets: When we remove a classified ‘
document from a folder we record more information for
administrative purposes than you find on these withdrawal sheets.
The. data put into such fields as creator's agency, classifying
agency, classification level, comments, and special markings are
not printed on this short form that researchers see. Our
computer program was designed to produce these abbreviated public
descriptions because some agencies, chiefly the CIA, do not want
to be public identified as the originator of specific documents.
We have made the withdrawal sheets for the Rockefeller Commission
items we have processed more explicit than normal practice
because the Church Committee published the gist of most of these
documents in 1975, identifying the CIA connection. But, because
of the software limitations, the computer cannot print the
"agency" data on the short form.

I think there is enough information for you to deduce the.
originating. agency for most of these documents. Most of then
were supplied to the Rockefeller Commission by the CIA, although
many of them are of interagency origin. If you have questions
aboutSparticular sheets, please don't hesitate to call me.

We may find that some, perhaps many, of these documents have
already been declassified, but rather than take the time to
research all of them and delay “opening the collection, we
simply “pink sheeted" everything and will wait to see what
happens with the proposed review commission. If they are not
systematically declassified, we will research then individually
as they are requested under mandatory review.

4 Pranidantial Chews & denieictnead bar tha Masadal heckione ned Darnete i keninictwrtine
13-00000,

ow we et ‘ . ge

 

    
 
 

EES
SePePa tan

wh stator

 

1 June 1993

“no John:

This is the package of JFK material
from the Ford Library we talked about
today. We received this package from
Steve Katz, Counsel to the Senate
Governmental Affairs Committee.

   

If you have any. questions about
this, please call me at 37914 (secure).

Dy

Doug Bowman

   

   

 
10 June 1993

NOTE FOR THE RECORD
ar

SUBJECT: JFK-Package from Ford Library

1. On 9 June, at a meeting with NARA officials on the .
JFK documents, I raised the subject of the package of

withdrawal sheets we had received from the President. Ford

Library. Steve Tilley, NARA advised me that no action was
required by CIA with regard to the package. He said he had
spoken with Karen Holzhausen of the Library about the
package, and learned that the sheets were sent to

Steve Katz, a Senate staffer, in response to a specific
request from him. Tilley agreed that HERG would hold the
package temporarily. .

2. I told him that we had identified classified

information in the package of withdrawal sheets e.g., name
of a station, although the sheets carried no classification.

He took note of this problen.

John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

il
hy
104-10331-10330

‘

 

  

TIA SPECIALS COLLECT:
RELEASE. IN FULL.
©2000

Note for the Record

= pdbruary 1996

Subject: JFK-Package from Ford Library

Refeyence: Note for the Record, same subject, dtd 10/6/93
* Note, same subject, dtd 1/6/93
Ford Library memo on Rockefeller Commission
files, dtd 29/7/92

The package of withdrawal sheets described in

referenced note was destroyed 7 February 1996. Steve
Tilley, NARA approved destruction via phone same date.

Barry Harrelson
HRG, Senior Reviewer
JFK Records

Attachments: References

CC: HRG files

MM
an
13-00000

SUBJECT: JFK-Package from Ford Library

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335 .(10 Jun 93)

Digtyibution:
Original - HRG file
' 1 - C/HRG ‘

1 - FMost w/withdrawal sheets
1 - JCarver

r
Uh
13-00000 —

: bd ‘

    

1. June 1993

 

John:

This is the package of JFK material
from the Ford Library we talked about
today. We received this package from
Steve Katz, Counsel to the Senate
Governmental Affairs Committee.

 
  

ARMAS ENS
ee
eT

 
   

atbisbeaietees:

If you have any questions about
this, please call me at 37914 (secure).

by

Doug Bowman

 

   

   

Wee rttitetrrienes

 

 
