[og 10175-10422

 

e

PEDGiaGS AE
5

alMLH10

: ; LIEUPY/Coumter-exploitation of Books Cubay
. Despertar de srerica, by wenon E-F i7 4) Comen

BEDBONG CAN BE 4I0G2D *
BY QUAURED HQ Desk ONLY

 

 

: ; ; :
lL. Attached hererith (a che cosy of Subject took (Attachunnt A).
wi.eh wes pibli shed under the scsrices of investigeaion counomica, am <
organitation of the mtionsl School af scvncay at the UBiY, ‘The use of.
UNek printizg. featlitdes ec cestnesd for cub joot book.exenplifies the
Rabie e, FroeCRE tO OFlottaticn at the UNA: School of ccononiea.
Ra ihiZy. the cuther of Subject cock, to 6 Larstat, proeCsetro j;rofessor
at the (5ih, end as reperted in Fittel 72, Lt 22 was also one of the
persons ree;oraible for the exp:latons of luisa Felipe WULLO Neeiss ant?
Cuilleres 710% Telayw from tie -lkal duhool of Leonenios for their pare
ticipation in the 2b duly if€1 atieCastro perade at the CHAR: Subject
book. ig written as a acaceuic treatise, presenting ths economies ille of
Cuba in ter pre-Ceatre Kewelctiza era (alluding % U.S. ‘respons1biis ty «
EOE UUO66 14s87_ Ge WCAUGEE 1a ba us Cay Abeces eg wceeete OF UNS
acconplichrenta end aspirations ef the Cestro Revrolnt sonary govermant.

2o The printing e.¢d wommreial distribution of Subject took wan
eor-leted recently with copies available to tne publie et Mericen book
“.y outlets for 10.00 pesos each (035,00), vo countereet the book's reoepe
\ ction im haxico anc +o expose its fal lacies md Comsmmist or) cetatimae

 

 

 

uy Frebuttsl® teview of the Sook for nilioation end distribution in

pamphlat form to seleeted ecdrecseas in Vext ta. draft copy of fhe
xeview (ittachaent 8) ae/(tproved he being forwarded reer
Heaiquartera information L ra ry ; i

 

  
  
   
    
    

 

Willan C. Curtis I

 

 

22 leoembor 1961

!

a fhe ~.
Me ye 7 |
|

3 = Files an. Tans wtih |
Gy het LT ,
LIMG EF. Z prtsD
fhe te andy (a hep Senhe

 

     

 

 

 

 

USE PATO S FTIOwe
RERACES POEMS

STB, STB AND SDD
_ WRC ARE OROUTE

 
    
   
 

 
