13-00000

-2-

4. No conclusions have been reached by the FBI as
to the nature or extent of Mrs; FERRER's involvement with
communism or the Soviet Union. From the information pres-
ently available, however, it appears to this Office that
she is at least a Soviet “sympathizer, if not a recruited
agent. On the basis of several gaps and inconsistencies
in her pre-1949 background, we have been investigating the
possibility that she could even be a Sovict illegal. While
there is nothing specific by which Mrs, FERRER could be con-
nected with Subject's case, we feel that certain items of ~
information, obtained through the investigations of the F3I
and Mexico City Station, are of interest in light of the
revelation in the newspapers of certain background infore-
nation on Subject. We note especially the following:

a) Mrs. FERRER*’s rosidonce in New Orleans.
Subject, evidently spent considerable tine there.
b) The fact that Mrs. FERRER's uncle, one

Boris S. DE MERING, who has had a mail address
in Shreveport, Louisiana, since the early 1940's
and who is associated with an oil company there,
actually resides in Houston, Texas.

c) Mrs. FERRER's trip to Mexico City. She ..
returned from there on 17 Septembor and Subject
went there on 26 September.

d) Mrs, FERRER*s occupation as a professor.
The "Fair Play for Cuba Committee", of which Sub-
ject was reportedly a member, was evidently made
up largely of students and “intellectual” types.

e) Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV's actual status

as a KGB officer. Subject also was in contact .
with another KGB officer in Mexico City. Of i
further interest in this regard is LEQNOV's back-
ground, fis personal calling card was found in ;
the possession of Fidel CASTRO at the time of the fe,
latter’s arrest in Mexico in 1956. LRONOV at that . |
time was an employee at the Soviet Embassy in .. --
Mexico City. Ue departed shortly thereafter and, |
with the exception of a trip to Cuba with MIKOYAN

. in 1960, presumably remained in the USSR until the jo
 

o4-1048-10805

aw
\v

“eet . seen #

—
~

poo ee Sy -ASbOr

DOC. MICRO. SER. “Memo No, 225 : ro

MAY 15 1975
MICROFILMED I
MEMORANDUM FOR: DC/CI 3

    

2 Decenbe,

     

. oS
SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD
| P6/- 734 813

N
1. The folléwing’ very tenuous connection between Sub-
ject and Olga P [RRER is brought to your attention for pos-
sible discussion with the FBI. .

 

  

2. Beginning in April of this year the FBI has submitted
several investigative reports on one Olga Prjevalinskiy FERRER,
a professor of Russian and S$ at Louisiana State Universit
in Néw Orleans. Mrs. FERRER, twice divorced, was born in France
“{n 1912, spent her carly childhood in Russia, came to the United
States from France in 1949 and became a naturalized American |
|

 

citizen in 1955. The FBI's interest in Mrs, FERRER was appar-
ently generated by a phone call she. made to the Soviet Embassy
in Washington sometime prior to 29 January 1963, at which time
she requested information concerning tho possibility of Ameri-
can students and teachers travelling in the Soviet Union at re-
duced rates, Considerable background information on Mrs.
FERRER has been made available by the F381, covering her period
of residence in the United States. ,

3. Independently of the FBI investigations, Mexico City
station reported that one Olga P, FERRER rented an apartacnt in i
that city in August of this year and had arrived there as of {
2 September. On that day she was in telephone contact with of
Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV, an Assistant Cultural Attache and f
Third Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City and a |
long-time KGB officer. She made arrangements to meet with : {
LEONOV later the same day. Prior to. returning. to New Orleans.
on 17 September, Mrs, FERRER was in attendance at sessions of :
the Thirteenth International Philosophy Congress being held
at the time in Mexico City, and she was observed to be in con-
tact with several other Soviets.

Document Minter LLL OT ee er

- " !
SrFola Review of WH 87 —SeCORD COPY : — |
ae , ‘sy Dec ze3

an Doi RII.

 
€ }
ae
=

egos

ase

summer of 1961, when he returned PCS to Mexico
City. In the spring of this year, at the time
of CASTROts visit to the USSR, LEONOV went on
home leave. While there he was photographed
several tines in the coapany of CASTRO and
KHRUSIICHEV, and supposedly served as CASTRO'S
interpreter. LEONOV's principal task in
Mexico City has been the smuggling of arms to
insurgent groups in Latin America, especially
Cuatenala. :

f) The fact that Mrs. FERRER's 18-year old
daughter, Marisol, is working in a French
Quarter night club in New Orleans and was at one

tine reportedly associated with a group of juven-—

iles who were using dope. In this regard we note
the fact that Jack RUBY was the owner of at least
two night clubs in Dallas and apparently has had
connections with organized crime.

 

 

. . SRICT/T

Distribution:

Original § 1 - Addressee
; 1 - SR/CI/I for 201-734813 -
Xe C/WH/3
; 1

- Chrono

SR/CI/I:{ seme 2 December 1963

 

 
