14-00000

i
i

- , SET Oo

able persoml courage, goct security and common sense. In ay xind te :
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real less to

the “Agency if we lose sight or contact with adolfo. J nave set few men
more dedicated and more loyal.

: AMY - :
5. | AVAS-3. "Secrutted by AMPANG2 ant 9
Close to‘gach other that we erred to trem as the *i0l2

in the shipping bistness in wa and eventuslir:
im Lost his hore, care, fursisnines, etc. his tim is sow
Plaaning to send hin to Bicarazuaé, and 1 have recomended his wo whe
Nicarasus desk Gi. Ste hes eil the qualities ascribed to
i : Adolfo SAN FELAYG (eee above) exent that he Mas cever been an sperican
Boe citizen. He speaks excellent Zrglish. E+: is cadtosted, courageous and
7 Boat anxious to raintain contact with the Agency. It will be our loss
3f this is not done, :

     

 

 

are? : .
6. Boroert b, Barker. AMCLATTIA-1. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
_ Cuban-American. Ex-Cantain tn the U,3.a-P. See PHQ end 20) for fall
bio date. I recruited barker in 1959, end he served faithfully eatél
We had to esfiltrate bir somwiine in 1960. He recruited a mmoer of
": valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTsK-5, which see} and :
bed.an amazing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con- ae
tects in all walks of life. He wie a boxing sasager and knew intisately .
all Cuber personalities engaged in the sporting incuatry. Se had 8 puppy
dog loyalty to nis case officers and to the Agency. His bigewst weakness
sms hie lack of discretion. He wis such a loyal Americas (actwally if a
got technically) that he would fight at the drcp of a hat if axyone cast ©
espersions on the United states or its leaders. In the atmoepaere of
Castro's Cana I mignt say chat thet wes quite often. xe ere ta the
process of helping him recover his lost Americen citizenshin. then the
Station reopens 1 would certainly recotmend that we continue to mintaia
contact wiih Zerker, If nothing else he vould make a wonderful leg-nan
for the Chie? of Station. ifs wife is an attractive Culen gel vio is bi-
» Lingual end as belligerentiy “American® as he is. iarker, by locks and
. by langusre, could osee either as an dverican or a Cuben - a gesuine
 @3aet if be could be wught to submerge hie Americanien €

 

    
  
  
   

 

 

    
   

rr [Banat VPGA Abril | J eat Manolo thrdngh Jorge ALONEA SION eee
(teow a ¢PTeoner in Cube ag a result of the 17th of april invasicn).

‘Mencie is-vorsing for us acw io Miami, and I oresuse we have {211 bio

_ Gata on bin. Yarwie's faxily owned, along with Reputli: Steel, ste big

+ @tesl plant to devana which was natiorslized by the Cestro regins (Cin.

| Antillana ce Asare, 3.4.). Manole has a brother, benienoy Wie would

| alto be vorth culttvatiag., Trreugh nis cusiness ani far lly corzections
Vanolo tnew & great meny paaple of cperational interest. One cf tia
friends wat SeviA S4LVAIAR, although Wanolo did not share SALVADOR s
polities) thissing {sxtrane left and aatin-ka@ricea). Famase S-

eijective a reporter ag I zAve evet encountered among Lat’

 

   

 

 

PR ae Rm ee, TN, paren earrat es

 

S/BR

 
 

[0g 10169-10136 Soy .

SENDER MLL CHECK Cu SIFICATION Tor AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED _1 CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY —
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

     
 

      
 
 

   

NAME AND ADDRESS

[To] a
Be Wel

    
 

    
   

  
 
 

a eGR
Seca —-— tt TaN

    
   

 

FOLD HERE TO RETURN 73 SENOER
FROM: Name, ADEE ic ancy Sitar tes, :

 

 
     
       

   

 

[| OXCLANSiFiED Ld, CouFinenTTAL

PRESS. 97 ths grevows editions

 

(40)
7.6 SOvERNMENT Hy TRG cures; S088 OmsersAs.

 

ree
oe
3
Sremeots
