44 Deapty SEcRETS

the Talisman Sugar Corporation. In addition, he was areal estate de~
veloper and, of course, a millionaire many times over. (He was also
aman of rather extreme political views. In a publication of the arch-
conservative American Security Council, former Ambassador
Pawley once advocated unleashing Chinese Nationalist troops from
Taiwan to run the reds out of Vietnam—and then letting them go
on to an invasion of the Chinese mainland.)

In 1954 Ike formed the Doolittle Committee to forestall a
gressional inquiry into CIA covert actions and named Pawley one-
of the four members. The panel was chaired by General Jimmy
Doolittle, like Pawley a famed World War II aviation figure. The
Doolittle Report said the United States had to abandon its tradi-
tional concepts of fair play in the face of an “implacable enemy” and
“learn to subvert, sabotage and destroy our enemies by more clever,
more sophisticated, and more effective methods than those used
against us.” The American people, the report said, might have to be
acquainted with “this fundamentally repugnant philosophy.”

Ike bought the Doolittle Report. He issued a follow-up Nafonal
Security directive seeking the destruction of. “international ‘com-
munism” and authorizing “all compatible activities” to-achieve that
goal. The Cuba Project was to stretch the definition oft compatible.

“I had several conferences with the President,” Ambassador
Pawley said, “and finally he was convinced that the anticommunist
Cubans in Florida should be armed and given every assistance to
overthrow the communist regime.” This was, of course, in direct
violation of the Neutrality Act, and the Munitions Act to boot. The
old Flying Tiger made a pitch to take over command of the project
himself; his argument was the highly selective one that the CIA was
primarily an intelligence-gathering outfit and should not be simul-
taneously in charge of operations. “Eisenhower wanted me to as-
sume overall command of the operation, with veto power over the
CIA,” Pawley told the authors. “But Allen Dulles, joined by Chris-
tian Herter who was easily led, prevailed, and it became a CIA .
operation.”

On Saint Patrick’s Day the red hot line phone rang on Dulles’s
desk. It was the President, giving him the green light and promising
to issue a blanket National Security directive so that operations did

 
sDLY SECRETS

 

vernment; Batista told the founder of
. flying leap. Pawley told the authors
nilar, heretofore undisclosed, two.
with Trujillo a short time before the
sinated in a CIA-backed plot. This
- He diplomatically suggested tha
overtook him; Trujillo said a furious
his visit to Trujillo was a Miami ac.
who later was to become famous as
Pawley however was leery of the *
at he agreed to see Bayo and his |
ome
well. Pawley asked tough questions 3
2 wanted details, for instance, of the -
Oriente, where the Russians were *
om his days as a youth in Guan- -=
answers indicating that they were,

"
¢
£

 

id told him it was a high-risk oper-
icuss with Lieutenant General Pat
Ifhe decided to go ahead, he would
w the Cubans’ small boat to the
appointment for Eastland to see
“arrange for me to bring my boat
nd without having to go through
re be successful in bringing out the

etter judgment and decided to go
roject’s “great importance to the
ne when he took a look at Bayo’s
bed it. Out of his own pocket he
boat and two large rubber rafts.
: consulted Carter,” Pawley said,“
‘me involved, that the CIA could

1¢ would try to fulfill my request '
rmaments expert, a good naviga-
“he three who reported for duty

   

       
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
    
    
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
   

Tue SECRET OF THE BRoTHERS KENNEDY 193

were the ever-ready Rip Robertson and paramilitaries known only

_ gs Ken and Mike. “I had an excellent radio on board,” Pawley re-

counted. “But I wanted to be in constant touch with the CIA office
jn Miami or with the Coast Guard, which could rescue us if any-
thing happened.”

William Pawley fumed as John Martino and Eddie Bayo stood
shamefully before him the day before the scheduled departure.
“They told me they had accepted $15,000 from Life magazine,”
Pawley said, “with which they had bought the military equipment
that they needed for the voyage and that Life.was to send along a
reporter and a photographer. As far as I was concerned, that blew
the deal. I couldn’t conceive of the U.S. government letting me go
ahead under those circumstances.” .

Dick Billings appealed to. Pawley, who finally agreed to speak to
Life managing editor George P. Hunt. Hunt flew down from New
York. He promised that all film would be turned over to Pawley,
and Life would guarantee that no story would be written without

"his consent. The promise was put in writing. Pawley called Senator

Eastland and informed him of Life’s proposal. Eastland thought it
was all right to go ahead.*!

The Flying Tiger left on schedule with Billings and the three CIA
men on board. Three days later, only hours before the Flying Tiger
was due at the rendezvous point, Pawley took off in a Catalina PBY
flying boat chartered from the Aircraft Ferry Company of Fort
Lauderdale, which frequently rented planes to the CIA. Also on
board was British free-lance photographer Terrence Spencer, who
had been hired by Life, as well as Martino and Bayo and nine of his
commandos. The only reason Pawley had rented the plane was his
strong distrust of the Cubans, who he feared might hijack the Flying
Tiger to Cuba. “I frisked every one of those guys as they got on
board,” Pawley said. “At this point I had no assurance of any kind
what type of men I was dealing with—whether they were anti-

__ Castro or pro-Castro.” While the plane was in the air, all the pas-
Sengers were locked into a center compartment.

When the Catalina arrived at the atoll, however, the Flying Tiger
wasn’t there. She arrived seven hours later—the CIA navigator had
lost his bearings in the murky weather. Pawley unlocked his state-.

 
13-00000

FIRST MEETING

Memorandum for the Record

Subject:

Time and Place:

Participants:

First- Meeting of General Maxwell
Taylor’s Board of Inquiry on Cuban
Operations Conducted by CIA

1400-1800 hours, 22 April 1961,
Quarters Eye

Investigating Commitiee Members
General Maxwell D. Taylor
Attorney General Robert Kennedy
Admiral Arleigh Burke

Allen W. Dulles

Department of Defense

Major General David W. Gray
Colonel C. W. Shuler
Commander Mitchell

Other Participants
General C. P. Cabell
C. Tracy Barnes
Richard M. Bissell, Jr.
[ ]
[ ]

54

 

First Meeting 55

1. After a discussion of procedural matters, it was de-
cided that all papers and documents stemming from the in-
quiry would be retained by General Maxwell Taylor. [

] Chief, Western Hemisphere Division, was des-
ignated recordér of the first meeting. ,

2. Mr. Diilles, in his opening remarks, cited the docu-
ment which authorized CIA to conduct paramilitary opera-
tions. This document, NSC 5412, was described as one of the
most secret documents in the U.S. Government. Mr. Dulles
said that under this authority CIA is directed to engage in
activities such as the Cuban operation under the general
supervision of the National Security Council. General Taylor
indicated that he wanted a copy of this document to be made
available to him for his study. General Gray indicated he had a
copy and would give it to General Taylor.

3. [ ] was then asked to describe Agency
activities on the Cuban problem prior to the establishment of
the Task Force, i.e., Branch 4 of the Western Hemisphere
Division on 18 January 1960. In his remarks [ ].
stated that in late 1958 CIA made two attempts (each
approved by the Department of State) to block Castro’s
ascension to power. The first attempt was made in November
1958 when contact was established with Justo Carrillo and the
Montecristi Group. The second attempt was made on or
about the 9th of December 1958 when former. Ambassador
William D. Pawley, supported by the CIA Chief of Station in
Havana, [ ], and [ ], ap-
proached Batista and proposed the establishment of a Junta
to whom Batista would turn over the reins of government.
[ ] was queried by the Attorney General as to the
approximate date that the Agency concluded that Castro was
unaccéptable to the U.S. politically, if not actually a Commu- ©
nist, and when this conclusion reached the Secretary of State
and the President. [ Jcommented that there were
reports as early as June or July 1958 during the period that
sailors from Guantdnamo were held by Castro forces which
indicated beyond a reasonable doubt that the U.S. was up |
against an individual who could not be expected to be accepta-
sDLY SECRETS

 

*vernment; Batista told the founder of?
flying leap. Pawley told the authors *
milar, heretofore undisclosed, two. »
with Trujillo a short time before the
isinated in a CLA-backed plot. This
+ He diplomatically suggested that =
overtook him; Trujillo said a furious *
this visit to Trujillo was a Miami ace
who later was to become famous as

Pawley however was leery of the Q
ut he agreed to see Bayo and his
mm. :
well. Pawley asked tough questions 3
¢ wanted details, for instance, of the

Oriente, where the Russians were
rom his days as a youth in Guan-
" answers indicating that they were,

 

ad told him it was a high-risk oper-
scuss with Lieutenant General Pat
Ifhe decided to go ahead, he would
»w the Cubans’ small boat to the

appointment for Eastland to see
“arrange for me to bring my boat
ind without having to go through
ve be successful in bringing out the

etter judgment and decided to go
‘roject’s “great importance to the
me when he took a look at Bayo’s
ibed it. Out of his own pocket he
'boat and two large rubber rafts.
{consulted Carter,” Pawley said, .
ome involved, that the CIA could

he would try to fulfill my request °
rmaments expert, a good naviga-
The three who reported for duty

   

  

Tue SECRET OF THE BROTHERS KENNEDY 193

were the ever-ready Rip Robertson and paramilitaries known only

‘as Ken and Mike. “I had an excellent radio on board,” Pawley re-

counted. “But I wanted to be in constant touch with the CIA office’
in Miami or with the Coast Guard, which could rescue us if any-
thing happened.” .

William Pawley fumed as John Martino and Eddie Bayo stood
shamefully before him the day before the scheduled departure.
“They told me they had accepted $15,000 from Life magazine,”
Pawley said, “with which they had bought the military equipment
that they needed for the voyage and that Life was to send along a
reporter and a photographer. As far as I was concerned, that blew
the deal. I couldn’t conceive of the U.S. government letting me go
ahead under those circumstances.” .

Dick Billings appealed to Pawley, who finally agreed to speak to
Life managing editor George P. Hunt. Hunt flew down from New
York. He promised that all film would be turned over to Pawley,
and Life would guarantee that no story would be. written without
his consent. The promise was put in writing. Pawley called Senator
Eastland and informed him of Life’s proposal. Eastland thought it
was all right to go ahead.*? : :

The Flying Tiger left on schedule with Billings and the three CIA
men on board. Three-days later, only hours before the Flying Tiger
was due at the rendezvous point, Pawley took offin a Catalina PBY
flying boat chartered from the Aircraft Ferry Company of Fort
Lauderdale, which frequently rented planes to the CIA. Also on
board was British free-lance photographer Terrence Spencer, who
had been hired by Life, as well as Martino and Bayo and nine of his
commandos. The only reason Pawiey had rented the plane was his
strong distrust of the Cubans, who he feared might hijack the Flying
Tiger to Cuba. “I frisked every one of those guys as they got on
board,” Pawley said. “At this point I had no assurance of any kind
what type of men I was dealing with— whether they were anti-’

: _ Castro or pro-Castro.” While the plane was in the air, all the pas-
sengers were locked into a center compartment.

When the Catalina arrived at the atoll, however, the Flying Tiger
wasn’t there. She arrived seven hours later—the CIA navigator had
lost his bearings in the murky weather. Pawley unlocked his state-

      
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

The CIA-Matia War Against Castro
and the Assassination of J.F.K.

WARREN HINCKLE
WILLIAM W. TURNER

ca
3 0002

Lbb2b 0

Thunder’s Mouth Press

 

 

 

 

 
44 Deapry SEcRETS

the Talisman Sugar Corporation. In addition, he was a real estate de.
veloper and, of course, a millionaire many times over. (He was also
aman of rather extreme political views. In a publication of the arch-
. conservative American Security Council, former Ambassador
Pawley once advocated unleashing Chinese Nationalist troops from
Taiwan to run the reds out of Vietnam —and then letting them go
on to an invasion of the Chinese mainland.)

In 1954 Ike formed the Doolittle Committee to forestall a con-
gressional inquiry into CIA covert actions and named Pawley one-
of the four members. The panel was chaired by General Jimmy
Doolittle, like Pawley a famed World War II aviation figure. The
Doolittle Report said the United States had to abandon its tradi-
tional concepts of fair play in the face of an “implacable enemy” and
“learn to subvert, sabotage and destroy our enemies by more clever,
more sophisticated, and more effective methods than those used
against us. ” The American people, the report said, might have to be
acquainted with “this fundamentally repugnant philosophy."s.

Ike bought the Doolittle Report. He issued a follow-up Naik nal
Security directive seeking the destruction of “international ‘com~
munism” and authorizing “all compatible activities” te achieve that '
goal. The Cuba Project was to stretch the definition of compatible.

“{ had several conferences with the President,” Ambassador
Pawley said, “and finally he was convinced that the anticommunist
Cubans in Florida should be armed and given every: assistance to
overthrow the communist regime.” This was, of course, in direct
violation of the Neutrality Act, and the Munitions Act to boot. The
old Flying Tiger made a pitch to take over command of the project
himself; his argument was the highly selective one that the CLA was
primarily an intelligence-gathering outfit and should not be simul-
taneously in charge of operations. “Eisenhower wanted me to as-
sume overall command of the operation, with veto power over the
CIA,” Pawley told the authors. “But Allen Dulles, joined by Chris-
tian Herter who was easily led, prevailed, and it became a CIA ..
operation.”**

On Saint Patrick’s Day the red hot line phone rang on Dulles’s
desk. It was the President, giving him the green light and promising
to issue a blanket National Security directive so that operations did

 
SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records;
Release of William Pawley's Name

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/x30335 (22 Jun 93)

Distribution: |
Original - Addressee
1 - D/CSI
1 - C/HRG

1-- HRG files
 

104-10332-10013]

ee

Leo

CSI-0307/93
22 June 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: _Deputy Director for Operations

FROM: David D. Gries
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

SUBJECT: ' JFK Assassination Records;
Release of William Pawley's Name

We continue to believe that the Agency cannot justify
withholding the fact of William Pawley's relationship with CIA,
in view of the public record. I ask that you personally read the
attached brief items, which clearly reveal a relationship. Two
of the items are from official documents--one from General,
Maxwell Taylor's Board of Inquiry, the other from the record of
the House Assassination Committee. The other contains quotes of

Pawley's own statements, which are included in a book by well-

known authors.

 

  

 

 

David D. Gries

Attachments: i
A. Investigation of Assassination
B. First Meeting
Cc. Deadly Secrets
   

“APPENDIX TO. Se AS
_ HEARINGS: ce

- SELBCT. COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
US! -HOUSE: OF REPRESENTATIVE :
ae MINgTY-FIFTH VORGRESS

’ “; x SHCOND, SESSION .

   
  
  

 

os wea

a - VOLUME X. 1°.”
oe ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIBS AND ORGANIZATIONS - i
“LEE HARVEY OSWALD IN. NEW ORLBANR 67782" 7

s hae
13-00000

83

Government until the end of 1966,(45) the group's activities, like-
those of other anti-Custro organizations, deciined in intensity and
effectiveness. oe ee

(297) Because the DRE was an extremely militant “action” group,.
the committee was especially interested in DRE operations prior
to the assassination of President Kennedy on November 22, 1003.
(298) As noted, one of the effects of the Bianquita raid in September
1962, was to garner the DRE a blast of national publicity, which, in
turn, gave the leaders of the group the opportunity to solicit additional
funding from wealthy individuals who were sympathetic to their anti-
Castro cause.(46) Among those whe wound up supporting the DRE
was Miami multimillionaire: William Pawley, a staunch rightwing”
conservative. former owner of the Havana bus system, and a friend
of former CIA Director Allen Dulles.(47) Another supporter of the
DRE was a friend of Pawley’s, former Ambassador to Italy Clare:
Boothe Luce,(48) then the wife of Time-Life publishing boss Henry
Tae, * nd later, 8 Nixon appointee to the Foreign Intelligence Advisory
Soard.
(299) In its review of DRE activities, the committee took special
interest. in a relatively recent series of events involving Clare Boothe
Tuce. In October 1975, Luce was being interviewed by Vera Glaser,
a reporter and columnist. for Knight. newspapers. when she told Glaser
of an alleged incident involving members of the DRE and Lee Harvey
Oswald. (49) At the time, Senator Richard Schweiker and Senator
Gary Mart were in the midst. of their subcommittes investigation of
the Kennedy assassination as part of the Senate select committee
inquiry into intelligence activity.

(300) According to Glaser’s report of the interview. this is basically
what. Luce told her: .

(301) Luce said that after the failure of the Bay of Pigs invasion.
her friend, William Pawley, persuaded her to help sponsor a fleet of
motorhboats for a group of anti-Castro Cubans who. Pawley envisioned.
would he Cuban “Flying Tigers.” flying in and out of Guba on intelli-
gence-gathering missions. Pawley had helped start Gen. Claire Chen-
nault’s original Flying Tigers in World War IT. Taice said she. agreed
to sponsor one boat and its three-man crew. She said she met. with this
Cuban boat. crew about three times.in New York and. in 1962, pub-
lished a story about thom in Life magazine. (44)

502) Following the missile crisis in October 1962, Luce said that the
Kennedy administration clamped down on exile activities against
“Cuha, and the Pawley-sponsored boat raids were discontinued. Lace
said she never saw her “voung Cubans.” as she called them, again. (47)
(308) Then, on the night. of Kennedy's assassination. Luce said she
received a eall from Now Orleans from one of the boat crew Cubans.
Taice told Glaser she would call him Julio Fernandez. She said the
Cuban tald her he called hecanse he wanted to tell her about some in-
formation he had concerning the President's killer, Lee Harvey Os-
wald (42)

(304) Taree told Glaser that, according to “Iulia Fernandez.” Oswald
had approached the anti-Castro group to which Fernandez helonged

“and offered his serviess as a potential Castro assassin. The Cubans,

however, did not trust Oswald. suspected he was really a Communist,
