 

ofrd

\
i
i

\

af

4

oe ow

CN . SCT

-R-

. of
. 6. have just recetved-a letter from saying that
nacl, Moore, and Bookbiader will be lesving for the U Ron 4 May

1966. ‘The purpose of this aotificstion is to provide some wornleg

| ghat an aceiéent usy be oa (ts way.to happen. You smy use it ta

any way you see fic, of sae protecting our source.

7. Monee vod xn 700,]

JUSTIN F. GLETCHADT

ee: Chief, Detroic Fielé Office

a HET

 
  

104-10181-10093

Br

 

arty

aur

 
 

eh
Vhiel, Contact Civietoa : : ~ May 19uG
2 Support Brasch (Crowley) oe
Catef, Miaat Fieid diftee ;
LY ¢ Fy 8 i Use Only
Rand Déevelapaent Corporation . - Bo fk ot Reprod oe

 

 

 

: Grant-Cletchavé © Telecon of 29 Apr 60

0% 06 1. On 28 April 1960 E spent seyeral hours. with an ole: friend,”
—— 1OS1$ Carnegie Aveoue, |Ciere: iad, Chin, vie
“had beea a ~wery xoud and sooparative source hile 3 wae tn’ Cleveland.
05 Ls a close frivad [and next-door nefghsor to Jim Hand o8.

tuto seeds os 2) Lord

2. Turing the course of convcenactos told me that
within the lagt two-chree monthe, FSU Kebsce:, the Rand exployee
who defected ta Moecov, had writicn several .etters to his feather
fa che US stating thar he wanted to coma heme. Bis father got in
couch with Rand, whe cold him ta inform hig# soa ts y= to the US Enbasay.
The aon replted that he was ‘aot able ta.’

 

of Raud Development Corporation (who needs no £2 tredye t Loi

 

- 3. Being tha tnpetusue type, Rand then decisee that he would
get to the sertea of the mattar, gc he reached for the teicphone and,
possibly to the surprise of ait hands, vas able co ceach Webster,
who is currently in Leningead. Vebster did noc g> inate detail but
satd that be vould be {aterested tn TER back the US.

a. wo deal ALE ove of bla ‘eacit hone inMoscow,
he lefe hie car in that city. inmediacely following Sie teiephone
converestion with Webster, Zaad cold bis wife tha: he was goiny to
make hie "Yast trie” te che USSR and wouls trin: sack Die car. Accom-
pinying him on che trip © il be Dan Moore, forver.e of O85, sad sou-
-in-law of Drew Pearssa, fesve Ts a resident of 2.evéland and a¢

one time was affiltacec with the Middie East Coapasr. He wan never
coatacted by me because his cevatic neture, sx cxcause cf hia
merital cona.ctions., 4o tis ¢ Clamsopant Cype wae ta villing to
try anything once ar The biddie East + mw scanch ofifce
fn Tuckey was referres .« a6 @ US intelliven ¢

several veers ago. 6: . F have a

Algo accompanying, Rey

  
 

   

  

   
 
 

 

 

.2 Bookb Lider. *

i ce aor

 

do. it tea firm consiecie vt es
ia the paca v.
vuc of the vosa.

a wine idea
e .eseter

 
   
 

ws
