 

21by

 

93

mettre ey tee nt anne atin Rattan ath ae me tens Ee ee a eB DR eet nak hte ten Alt ema at indi Sana Lak enacts oie ah St te

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page ll

Tuesday - 31 January 1978 Ahete

48. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Mike Epstein, |
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who indicated that the House ‘
Select Committee on Assassinations had requested Church Committee

transcripts for the following former CIA employees: Bill Har ;
[____) Richard Bissell, Bronson Tweeay,( 03
James O'Connell, and Richard Helms. Epstein indicated that he proposed

. to respond to this request within the guidelines of S. Res. 400 regarding
‘/"ultimate release", He said the request came from James Smith and
Robert Blakey, of the House Select Committee on Assassinations staff.
I suggested that Blakey, Smith, Epstein and ourselves discuss further the
scope and nature of the request as soon as possible. Epstein agreed to this
meeting and I will schedule it.

49. (Unclassified - GMC) THIRD AGENCY Called Elizabeth Verville,
Department of State, Legal Adviser's Office, who is handling matters ©
relating to the Subcommittee on International Organizations, House
Committee on International Relations request for declassification of
Department of State documents, We agreed to stay in close touch regarding
problems connected with Agency material in the documents that the Subcommittee
wants from State.

50. (Unclassified - GMC) THIRD AGENCY Called Mr. Porter, Korean
Desk, Department of State, to confirm his attendence at a meeting with
DDO/Korea Desk officers on Thursday, 2 February. The meeting was
arranged by SA/DO/O to coordinate Department of State and Agency
positions on the Subcommittee on International Organizations, House
Committee on International Relations request for Department of State
documents containing Agency material.

5l.. (Unclassified - THW) LIAISON In response to a phone call
from Mark Bisnow, in the office of Senator John Heinz (R., Pa.), to
Anthony Lapham, General Counsel, regarding a request from Senator
Heinz for a briefing on CIA information with respect to the G, William
Miller nomination to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, I called Bisnow to tell him that his call had been passed to OLC
and we would be back in touch shortly to discuss the matter with him.

Mr. Bisnow again said he was calling to request a briefing for the Senator,

who is on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.

</3/3
