 

 

 

 

 

 

as Subject may have, if any,,is within the Bureau's jurisdiction

_ rather than. that of this Agency.

Donovan E.-Pratt.
DC/CLI/R&A

Distribution:
g- DCI

Ori

1

en

- DDP : :

- Executive -Comptraller

- General Counsel

- A/DCI

- Office of Security : :

~ Director, Domestic Contact Service
-C/CL, DC/CL

- RID/ Files, 201-334272

~ CI/R&A chrono ‘

- DP Garrison file: -

 

 

 
 

 

12. The New Orleans Times-Picayune of 12 December 1968 °
included the following item: : :
om : \
aa "Garrison also commented. on William Boxley,

: an investigator he fired on Monday because, Garrison

said, -he was an operative ‘of the: Central Intelligence

Agency. .

4 He was not only a CIA agent, ' said the DA, ' but
he was one on a.very high level’, Asked what proof his
office developed, Garrison said it concerned material
that Boxley had put in written form,

"Boxley, contacted in Austin, Tex., told the.
Times-Picayune on Wednesday that he has not been
involved with the CLA or any federal agency since 1952.

"He said he believed Garrigon ‘has been genuinely
misled! about his CIA involvement, adding: ‘Iam sure

he believes as strongly in this (his alleged CIA involvement)
as he once belicved in me." Boxley said he would cooperate
completely with Garrison's office in returning to it material
he still has in his possession.

 

Boxley said the only written material he ever provided
Garrison's office was a description of how various intelligence

algencies operate.
Boxley said he was ‘really sad! over his firing by

Garrison, but added that he believed no one could convince
Garrison that he was not an agent of the CLA,"

Cc. Current Developments

 

13, .On 27 December 1968 Dr, Stephen Aldrich of DD/S and T
informed the Office af Security that at 1600 hours on 27 December he

 

hagirec ived a telephone call frém Subject, who had becn his subordinate

Ain ‘GIR&A called Dr. Aldrich, who supplied the following
additional information:

 
74-00000

   

 

a. WOOD said that he was calling froma pay..
phone in a Sears Roebuck store in Dallas. He provided
a home telephone number, which we have not doce: ble ’
to verify, and he believes that this telephone is.bugged, -

    

. be WOOD had found the telephone number of
Dr. Aldrich in the directory, His only previous call was
made in 1966, when he reguested a recommendation for
a newspaper job for which he was applying. Dr. Aldrich
referred him to Personnel. ce

‘c.. Subject told Dr. Aldrich on 27 December that i”
he had information which he urgently wanted to communicate
to CIA. He sounded upset, . .

14. C/CI/R&A advised Dr.. Aldrich that if Subject telephoned
“again, he should be told that his call had:been referred to the proper
authorities. Because of the information reported above, ‘there was

a possibility of provocation. .

15. In the mid-afternoon of 28 December 1968 Subject again
telephoned Dr. Aldrich from an.unknown location. He asked whether
someone Would be in touch with him. Dr.’ Aldrich said that Subject's
information had been relayed to those responsible and’that he had no
information about future contact. Subject said that he was not trying
to involve Dr. Aldrich but that he did have information'to relay. He
sounded less frightened than on his previous call. He suggested that
whoever called or visited him should icant himself by referring to
information held in common (i.e., to nm 1951-1952). Out of a
job, WOOD had received two or three ozters of employment but was not
sure of-the identities of the prospective employers and feared
provocation, presumably from Garrison's office, : Apparently he believes
that the FBI is monitoring his home telephone. .

16. Ut is our intent to’ask the Bureau to relay this information
to'its office in Dallas and'to instruct an FBI representative to call
" upon Subject and request elucidation, because such information
 

 

 

he had been fecruited by OSS white he was attending infantry. ‘School
at Fort Benning in October 1944. He stated that his services were
have been used to originate and conduc ‘adio, programs in the CBI

‘ theater, .that: he had been, investigated | y Dunn and Bradstreet, and that .

“in the course ‘of a long distance telcplione: call to the OSS Personnel
Procurement. Office he had been told that-OSS ‘could | not use him at that

- time but that he should-keep in: ‘touch, The-interviewing officer in. |
“Honolulu commented in his report to Security Officer, oss Headquattera,
that the Dunn and Bradstreet leak shouldbe noted and that. WOOD™ :

certainly knew more about OSS than any‘ other potential recruit whom the

interviewer had ever seen,

L 2, On 13 December 1950 Subject was given a Coyert Security
Clearance for use as a staff agent and was assigned to i Chief
Instructor of Clandestine ‘Operations. He arrivéd at hi March
1951, and two months later his dependents Were issucd travel clearances
to. join-him. In ‘March 1952 he suffered-a nervous breakdown and was
returned to Agency Headquarters for medical observation. The medical
conclusion was, that the breakdown had resulted from: family troubles and
overindulgence in alcohol, In May 1952: WOOD’ was assigned to OTR
a8 an instrictor.in the Operations, Courae. In October 1952 his status .
was converted to that of a stage, employee, and he was assigned to-OTR

as a GS-11 instructor,

 

 

3. In December 1952 an Agency guard found WOOD > Lying ona
sidewalk near Temporary. Eye Building. ' He was bleeding from the
mouth. There was no evidence of foul play. At his own request he was.
taken to Emergency Hospital, In January 1953 he failed to report for
duty. Agency represeratives went to his residence, the Lafayette Hotel,
and found him under the influence of alcohol. He was requested to report
for duty the next day, but the hotel doctor had him removed to Gallinger
Hospital because of continued intoxication, Subject's resignation was
‘requested on 19 January 1953 and became effective 27 January 1953.

4. Onll July. 1953 Subject telephoned the Security Office from
. Dallas, Texas. He said that he would undergo brain surgery on 13 July
\ at Baylor Hospital, Dallas; He aaked that-an Agency representative
be present, | Arrangements were made to ensure that anything wooD
said under anaesthesia would, remain confidential. . WOOD was given
- sodium pentothol, but no surgery (except a spinal tap) was performed.
{In his hospital room, to which he had-been returned from the operating
roor:, WOOD said that.he had served overseas with the CLA and had

 
 

1041051510040

 

 

“Pacific operation).

 

 

"MEMORANDUM

 

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:
: William Clarens WOOD Jr., alias William BOXLEY,
201-834272

Reference: CI/REA Memorandum No. 9, Subject: Garrison
and the Kennedy Assassination, 5 Junc 1968, paragraph 19¢

A. Summary

Williarh Clarens WOOD Jr. was employed by CLA as a contract

instructor in clandestine operations from March 1931 when he arrived
me Re March 1952, when he had a nervous breakdown resulting

from family problems’ and alcoholism. Sent back to Headquarters,
he served ag an instructor in OTR from May 1952 to January 1953,
when his resignation was requested, again because of heavy drinking.
During or before July 1968 Garrison, who knew that WOOD had been a

CIA employce, hired him as an investigator assigned to Garrison! 8
"investigation" of the Kennedy assassination, In December 1968, however,
Garrison's office announced that WOOD had been fired because it had been
ascertained that he was then active as a CLA 'bperative”. Later j
December. WOOD made two telephone calls to his former chief inl
requesting contact and instructions. The case is being referred t ie .:

‘B. Summary of Earlier Events

i, William ‘Clarens WOOD Jr., born 17 August 1920 in Shreveport,
Louisiana, was approved in November 1944 for overseas employment

by OSS in an assignment as a newspaperman (printing chief ina Central
This approval was withdrawn on 23 December i944,

however, because of non-concurrence by OG/AAF. ‘He was then assigned

. to combat infantry duty in the Southwest Pacific; he was not used by OSS.

In February: 1945 he visited the’ Honolulu Office of OSS and claimed that

 

 
   

 

 

 

 

seen many people killed, "The cin are a bunch of dirty cut-throats,
and I. wouldn't be a bit surprised if they sent one of their men to cut
mine, . They think they arc-smart, but one of these days in.the. near”
future { wili show them who is the smartest, They have about 100
‘GS-14'ts walking around with their heads shaped like. CRBS oo ‘ Ehave.-
been a failure but-after i get well Iam going to go back 'to echool and we
get my degree and fight the CIA with evetything that tr can, | "
5. A report of 30 April 1957 from the FBI office in Dallas, Texas,
noted that Subject had telephoried-from Midland, Texas, to a Chinese
intelligence officer in Formosa, WOOD. said that he had formerly been
employed by-the CIA, He offered to help the officer “with things I know",
He then telephoned Lubbock, Texas, and spoke to a person believed to
be his wife, He told her that he had spoken with Chiang Kai-Chek's chief
of intelligence and that "if thia thing goes through", she and the baby
would receive from $700 to $1000 a month,

6 In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service in Dallas
requested clearance to use Subject and reported that he had not hada
drink in nine and a half years, On 3 March 1967 derogatory FBL informa-
tion and the information that: WOOD was again drinking heavily were .
forwarded to the DCS, which then dropped him asa potential source,

a 7. On 18 January 1968 Ron OSTROW of the Les Angeles Times
called the A/DCI and relayed a Los Angeles query about a former CLA

_ agent, William BOXLEY, who was an investigator for Jim Garrison
The A/DCI replied, "no comment,

8, In April 1968 Paul ROTHERMEL, security officer for Hunt
Oil Company, Texas, said that he-had been visited by.a Bill WOOD who
was conducting investigations in Dallas for Jim Garrison under the alias
of Bill BOXLEY, WOOD wag making inquiries about the CIA and its
- operations, It was further reported that WOOD was well known in
Houston and that his connection ywith Garrison was no seeret,

9. On 12 July 1968 the New York Times (p. C35) carried an article
headlined "Garrison Claims Forcign Spy py Link’. The article includes

the following:

“Over the telephone, Mr, Garrison also introduced an
investigator for his office, Bill Boxley, as a former

SERRET

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Central Intelligence Agency. instructor in the ‘clandestine
operations department’. He’ said he had found ‘Mr. Boxley
while. seeking a ‘man who:had been with the, intelligence
agency ‘but-still cared about the: United State's, !

 

 

 

_ "Mr. Bosley then said-his real_name was Willlam C.
“Wood; he was forty-eight years old, originally from Texas;
he had worked 10 years as a‘newapaper reporter +- last
on The Denver Post ‘from 1948 to 1950; he-had been with the
intelligence agency two .to five years in the. 1950's overseas
and in Washington and had ‘used ag many as 10 different
names in operations with the agency!,"

10, The basic facts about WOOD were provided to the FBI by
CSCI 316/02725-68 of 15 July.1968. Additional relevant information
was requested. The Bureau replied on 18 July 1968 that the "Berkeley
Barb", published by the Underground Press! Syndicate, had stated in
its issue of 29 December 1967 -< 4 January 1963 that Bill BOXLEY, .
an investigator for Garrison, had verified a Mafia plot to kill Garrison.

11. The New Orleans ‘Times-Picayune of ‘10 December 1968.

‘carried the following:

"The office of Orleans Parish District Attorney Jim
Garrison Monday announced the removal of a member of
the staff investigating the assassination of President John
F. Kennedy because of alleged involvement with the CIA.

" ‘William Boxley was fired after evidence recently
developed by the District Attorney's staff indicated current
activity by him as an operative of the Central Intelligence
Agency, ! the office said. . “

"Boxley's initial service with the CIA was in Washington,
D. G., where he served for years as an/active agent for ‘what
was then termed the Department of Covert Activity', according

to the office.

"The office said federal intelligence efforts to interfere .
with the investigation into President Kennedy's assassination
have been occurriig Since ghe beginning of the inquiry’.

. .

 
