14-00000

 

we

“STI oe

 

AGE

Province, gentenced to ane vear is prison by the Tribunal of Gane
siago de cuba for ovaspiracy against the BATISTA regime. Hy served
his sentence and wag reletsed on 22 ovesder 1957. Subject was
arrested the following day by the drica de Guerra of Balabanc,
Havana Province, but rvleased sguin four days later. Oa 27 Hovenbar
1957 he was appointed ty the Castro orgaaleation, "Jefe de Accion”
(Political action, sabotage and violent assaults) for the Province
of Las Villas. In this eapscity,. Subject organized a "Pront* aa

the North Coast of Las Villas, called Colima Ho. 1 Marcelo Glade.
“Columa Ba. 2" operated in tha Sierra Baburanao (North Coast of

las Villas) witil beginning of October 1955, when Che GUEVARA and
Camtlo CISNFUGOS with their colums entered the province. In October
1953, Gubject we “Jefe de Accion” for the Provinces of Pinar del
Rio, Havena and Natansag. Th this capacity, Subject oryanized Rebel,
Arwy units in the’ mountain areas of Pinar del dio, tha Central area .
of Katansaa and the area Eust of Havana. This operation lasted. two,
wontha (Noveaber and December 1959). From 1 to 15 January 1959;
Gubject's Headquarters wie located at the Sports Palace of Bavana
and when Fidel CASTRO entered the City, Subject turned over full
control of the city to his leader. On 15 January 1959, Subject

wag appointed Chief of the Revolutionary Arzy 5tn Kilitary Ristriet
of Havana. He held this post for 22 days. Then (begiuning of March
1959) he was made “Jefa del Onlan Publico en el Estado Mayor dol
Riereito Revelde” (Chief of Public Order fa the General Staff of the
Robel Army). Yn April 1959, Fidel CAgTRO appointed subject te the
post of Chief of the Rural Police for ths eutire national territery.
Be wag given full authority to aet up and orgaaize military echoo!
‘for training of a modern rumil police force. Subject proposed to:
Fidel CASTRO the idea of organisicg the Cubsc Riral Folice on.
pattern of the Royal Censdian Mounted Police. In July 1959, Bud;
established the firat Rural Police Traiaing School at tha Finca faa
Jacinto in Bahia, Bonda, Province of Pinar del Ria. Subject stated
that none of the inetructars had been asscedatad with the Conmmumiat
Party of Cuba. Subject held cue posts of Chief of Public Order and.
ooncurrantly Chief of the Rural Police froa beginaing of April 1959
witil 9 Rovember 1959. Howaver, toward the end of October 1959,
Fidel CASTRO, thoroughly disillusioned with the anti-cocrmaist poo
litical attitude demonstrated by staff and studenta of the Bahia
Honda Ruyal Police training school, dissolved it, assigned tha staff
teaching jobs at Peasant Militia schools end transferred the stulents
to Rebel Aray unite from yhich they bad been detached. This decision
was preceded by massrous violeut arsusents betyeen Subject and Fidel
CASERO and convinced Bubject that CASTRO was following the Cocmuniat

 

 
 
  

 
 

1077-10187

“4

 

 

COTRH

1h Septerter 1962

FOr Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
- Department of the Arny
Atta: ISR ,
Be
i ‘ Fon My
FROG Interagency Source Register t Ae; we
()
SUBJECT: PANEQUE Bastista, Victor  (SD-10237) tp ~ i

oka: PAMZQUS y Batista, Victor Manuel, j
DIEGO Paneque, Major ,
Comandent DIEGO (war name) '

1. Reference {a mwa to ths request dated 6 Anguet 198,
subject aa above, whose nase you desired checked against the
files of thin office. The files contain the following infor
wation conceruing tha subject of your request. .

2. Ynformtion provided by an untested gource on 15 Bep-
tener 1960 indicated that Victor Menucl PANEQUE mtista (war
name Comandante RINGO) waa about §'6" tall, weighed about 180
pounds, ami had a solid muscular build, Ligtt complexion, sandy
hair anf grey eyes. subject was a friendly, eimple, but appar
ently very shrevd and detarnined individual of boundless energy.
Subject was torn in Holguin, Oriente Provinces, Cuba, on 22 dep-
tember 1918. His formal education was short. Prom 1934 until
1gk2 Subject worked as a fara-hand together with hie father. In
1942 Subject bad Sour moatha of military training at Escusle
Rilitar, Managua, Cuba, and then served two years ag on infantry
private at the Military Base, Momagua, Province of Havana, Cubs.
Released fron military service in October 1944, ha fouml employe
went on a waiter and bartender in various bar-rooms in Holguin.
Eo vorkwd in this field util 13 Octoder 1956, the lest five years
of this period as a bartender in the Cabaret Casana Club, Holguin.
Khile still employed at thie Club, Subject joined the 26th July
Movement of Pidel CADTRO, and waa appointed chief of all clandestins
activity against the BATIGM regime for the Horthern Coast af Oriente
Province. Subject was arrested by the police of Bayano, Oriente

SECRET

NOFORN COUTIEED COcTDAL \

 
 

 

Re
NOFORR gal ae CO TRSL

line. Oi 9 Rovesber 1959, Bubject wa removed from his po: oe Catet
of Public Order and Chief of Rural Police. He ms given a “sonision
& earvicio” and appointed Administretor General of the “Compania —
Inter-Anericana", a truck transport saterpriss covering about 70% of
ell Cuban truck transport requirements. OGubject beld this position
until 29 August 1960. On 1 geptenber 1960 this enterprise was dis-
solved and a new ons, called “wnlleres Racionales” set up in ita
place. Subject was mode Cenernl Administrator of thig enterprise.
Is opits of his prominent povitdon, Subject decided to leave his coun-
try and go to the United States. He escaped by & aml) boat and was
picked up by an American Tankor after drifting for fourteen hours.
Be gave no explanation for his sudden decision except to say that he
——— -4id not agree with the Commaiot tread of Cuban politica. Subject
elaieed to be tha leader of Movimiento Insurrectional de Recouperacion
QURR « Insurrection Movement for the Recovery of the Revolution) in
Guba.’ This Movement allegedly was founded in las Villas Province by
Doctor Orlando BORSCH (BOSCH) and Subject in 1959. At the beginning
ef september 1960 it Joined the Alianza de Liberacion which was organ~
ized in ths United States by Doctor Luis CONTE Aguerro vith Bubject’s
Seslatance.

3} According ta a report dated 21 Eeptaaber 1960, from 6 fairly
relfable source, Gibject trisd to give the impressica that he vas
against the CAHIRO government but in reality wus a Cuben goverument.
BSante :

4. According to a report dated 6 October 1960 prepared by
another offices of thie agency, mendera of the Stutent group at the
University of Havana reported the presence in Miami of two CASTRO
“Plants” said to be Departamento Investigative del Sjereito Revos
luctonario (DIZR) agents. One of these vas Subject. The information
in this report cove from a United States national vith business cone
tacts in the Latin American arease

- Se AR unsvyaluated report dated 13 March 196, indicated that
Subject was the organizer cf a hunger strike group and was the first |
speaker at @ rally to urgs the United States to give arms to exiled
Cubans. He advised the audience that the “Iumger Strike to Death"
had taken place to show the President of the United States, that Cubans
were villing to die in extle if their right to defend Cuba from Come |

‘masiism was denied.

6. Yor additional information concerning Subject, you are ree
ferred to; :

Be Federal Bureau of Investigation, Bureau File Bo. 1105-92195

 

 

 

cnartinte Ae Senet nes me?
74-00000

SECRET

HCRENY CONTEND CONTE

be Borarteent of State Incoming Telegran fram Havana Fo.
1604, dated 6 October 1%0 (3 additional documentation

\ available).

. Ge Tnnterution and Katurolization service (Mo additional
documentation available).

@ Department of the Aruy moseage fron USARMA, Havana, Cuba
‘ RR: C-2l2, dated 3 Soptenber 1960, and USARMA, Havens,
Guba HR: C216, dated 13 Geptenter 1960.

@. Office of Baval Intelligence.

f. Washington Post newspaper, funday issua dated 12 June 1960,
sagaaine eection "Parade", article titled "Solifer of

@- Washington Post nevepaper, Sunday issue dated 10 My 1961,
moignains section "Parade", article titled “We W111 Finish

the Jot’
7. Fe Interagency Source Ragister indicates tnet thera is no

current operational interest in Bubject. >
8. Para. 7 coafirms telecon of 7 August 1962 Between Mies

 

and Mrs. Taylor of your orice.

Tern-B7s2

RID/CE: JMA/NH/pho
Based on: 201-266362%
CCl CL/ki a 154

-4

eCET

nosso Og goers

 

 

 
