74-0000

 

‘yr a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-—
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet :Embassy,- Miss Ann Goodpasture of the
Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there .

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the

technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete rol] of

. film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, -and cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated |
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties. .

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris
C000162

NE 7 i

 

 
74-0000

 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying te speak in Russian. .

There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in
either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only
these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

 
 

’ Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double Janed
street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental |
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was
being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

“ graphic base. It was Jocated in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middle of

the block south. It had a Planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a

row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American nother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the fim. from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de- .

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early [_} due to the resig-

 

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

CC00159

Nn
 

[0g 10425-10003

a ae Lote ( . (

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. £ Coverage: |.

From the time. the Mexico. Station was opened | until

 

 

 

 

 

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief‘of.Station in co the Station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Enbassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline
phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

 

 

. Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed by ’

 

 

 

ws handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

of lines ‘tapped was Limited only by the availability of a _Vistening post
nearby and the availability of lTangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
. Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
- American recruited agents. |
Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer -
> assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, -and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en- |

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

Cc
6000158 |

206$/
. E2, IMPDET
OF AAMT IO CMON xr CL BY 604645
74-0000

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveiTlance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. ‘These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

 

The Station also conducted aL mail intercept operation,

 

 

 

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer.

 

 

 

 

 

obtained selected letters

 

 

 

from a subagent |

2. Coverage:

was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), { | was a hip-.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This-Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

cnet? vee Te

    

foreigners. Their agents were

L >» and corrupt.

 

 

 

 

GeOb1E9 -

 

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed. by’

 

 

In 1961,

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

. Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

The listening post had 30 lines ~

 

In mid-1962, |

 

 

 

 

 

' post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

 

 

 

bassies in) The Station immediately

 

 

 

 

 

soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

 

 

 

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Stations however, there

was usually a time tag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

GOO0161

 
