_

 

 

 

 

 

be Mr. Pauley "asked the Ouban if his group felt they had moral
- gupport ef. the Us 3. and the Cuban rephied thatcthey wanted U. 8.

‘moval, support: but whether they had it or not, they felt they were

obhiged to cérry through with their plang. Mr, Pawley said he didn'¢

. know what to tell bim —= would have to think about it and see if any=
_ thing could be done. He said, “having been connected with the U. 5,
_ Government; I can't get. involved in revolutionary movements", Algo .
-" gadd-he would hate to see the Dominican Goverment get involved, .
" which might be difficult to avold with se many Cuban exiles there,.
bat commented: that he under stood "the Dominican Government. haan! ¢ =

 

 

SER

 

 

 

 

 
fi 40049 si

- BUBJECES

oe wH/3
Listened to the play~back of a tape, brought to Washingten from Med,

.  weeording of Mr.:Pawley's comrereations with two Cubans during the
period 17-18 Ooteber. The first conversation was with an onidentified

”.. plane for sabotege of the coming sugar harvest ag reported in Uae 32
- dated 2:Cctober. The second Cuban was AMPACA=1, a Cuban journalist
of operational interest to Station Habana, and a * separate momar sad

oe is subsitted on thet: Sonversation. Pos

, “s epee indistinetly, wae difficult to understand, He mentionad a

. and moneys. he pointed out that Cubane in Cuba are afraid’ to staré an =~
| ‘underground movement, and there was no way to raige funds, etc. Mre
-. Pawley gave him no encouragement on the money angle, saying that even
- 4£ there were Anericans willing to rug the risk ef becoming invelved
'. dg Cuban revolutionary activities by furnishing money for euch ao = oo!
- ovement, which he doubted, he felt that at the present time it “would ne

ol. (1) there is no-unity among the anti-CASTRO groups, and there are ab” |
' ~~ least LO that he knows of who are working absolutely
‘one anothers snd (2) CASTRO is in control of the country and has the
_ suppert:
Vir, Pauley said he felt the Cuban economic situation was. worsening |

_ tyrn on CASPROs but until that time comes it. would be | dangerous, to
wt to > organise a rewolutionary movements , ;

—

ae

20 October 1959

  
 
 
 
 

; ghlights of Tape-Retorded Gonversation an Handi Between ;
7 Period LIAB Cotanee nt “Unidentified Cubma daring a
Period. a Cotober —— ; . ;

 

 

 

kL “ui 20 Octeber. the underaigued end —Jet

 

 

 

‘and given to Colonel King by Mro Paley on 19 October, which was a

Guban, believed to be a menber of a group of veslthy antt-CASTHO Cubsno, ifrd
nenbors.of- which have talked to Mr. Pawley recently about their

 

Be The wildeutitied Cuban, who had somevset of an socent and .

 

meeting ‘with sone af our people who came up from Cuba" to discuss

_ plang. He said bie group had been contacted by 8 representative of si.
“General Jose: Bleutorio PEDRAZA, leader of Cubsn revelutionary groups

.. dn the Dominican. a

7. hed taken and wag told that they bad a plan "to start sabotage”. The -

~_ Quban: said. the PEDRAZA xepresentative said thelxs group (the PEDRAZA
... group) had four, provinces: organised in Cuba, mentioning Camaguey.and . .-
-:,/ Ganta Clara, and that- they. had ‘two provinces yet to be organised om
a Habana and Matanzas. ‘- we

Republic, who wanted to knew what action their group .

 

     

3. Sus tance and Lie group neoded two things co mnrel backing |

 

bo. Like "putting money down.a rat-hole" for the following reasongs.
independently of |”
of a large number of Cubans, especially the eon cinerea

 

fast and that if it gets bad enough, a large number of Cubans will

 

_ SEORET

 -*Q0/- 973 7%

  
