Grad

. 4 Aa. Af P4
Legislative Counsel Date

th Cea ek Cree Ns band

he awd ORAL om Uren barney re
capi ho dn a
ancticte Prairie nn, bbb,

9 February 1979

 
    

Jirector for Operations
wtf Stan:

Date .

Agree with Option c; oppose Option b. Agree to Option a assuming
no mention of CIA in Mexico. At this very moment, the Mexican o
situation is super sensitive regarding CIA and we should not further
inflame that situation by admitting to CIA activities in Mexico —
City under any guise or name.

 

Pa/7

 

Deputy Director for: Administration )
(nce weve ex jausted COMpY O mIS€ ie
assume we wyl J have ® sethe 2
Ophar'b" 11 ve of Ke exRbna record, Len
Q Yah GR ashe XH Object A fr acpls (ones), ra 7 A
vey farpretn A ALLEY OR Kot Briyh ae p24 be
Pei An. Ou Ache Yoo ¢ Door bs walay fn BL af. Vs who

[ee og the Da: veld, Lng hor aly ) fark «S Ay NE Dy, bBo uA-
Ata Lave 23h ee oe

“ tafe ge Z rae

General Counsel ° f

Date —

      

SECRET
74-0000

‘ . 7 ree a
ty .. ( WLU : + gee

79-03 /F
8 February 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA : Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
Legislative Counsel

FROM. : §. D. Breckinridge
as Principal Coordinator, HSCA .

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations References to
Overseas CIA Stations (U)

1. Action Requested: That you approve one of the options set forth
in paragraph IT. (oy

2. Background: CIA's participation in the investigation of
President Kennedy's assassination was limited by the pattern of Lee Harvey
Oswald's life. He served in the Marine Corps in Japan, although he did not
come to the attention of the CIA at‘that time.. He travelled to the Soviet
Union in 1959, returning to the United States in 1962. He did not come
to CIA's attention until his defection was reported by the U. S. Embassy
in Moscow. He-.travelled to Mexico City in late September 1963, returning
to the United States in early October after'a five-day stay. CIA detected
his presence and reported it at that time as a routine CI report because
he contacted the Soviet Embassy. (C) :

 

3. “False allegations by a disaffected CIA employee claiming CIA-Oswald
ties in Japan consumed some of the Committee's time and attention. They
discredited his testimony, but in the process of discussing it. they talk
about the things he said, including his duties in Tokyo. 3

 

: a - We would endeavor to have
the Committee sanitize and downplay this Section of its report simply.

because of the discredited nature of the witness's testimony. If this is
unsuccessful, unclassified publication may become an issue. (C) .

 

 

4. Oswald's entry to the Soviet Union, with a visa given by the
Soviet Consul In Helsinki, leads to HSCA discussion in its report of ;
—— and the file held on the Consul,
who was KGB. We believe this can be remedied by sanitization; if not,
it could become an issue if HSCA insists on publication.

 

 

 

 

22483

ORIGINAL cLBY 713190
D pect 4 neve on February 1985 __
EXT BYROSG YRS BY

pmoaca

 

   

 
 
[og 10446-10079

‘

 

 

f]ceRassiFieD = JC TERNAL Con DENTIAL [SECRET

  

     
   
   

 

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ;

SUBJECT: (Optional) : Lo
WY

- : EXTENSION: NO. _

OLc 79-0113/8
1046 ome 9 February 1979
| are | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
[ree fom]

 
   

 
 
       

 

FROM:

S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

  
    

TO: (Officer designation, room number, a
building) -

      
 
  
    
   
 

   
 
    
    
      
  

   

fo whom. Draw a line acress column after each comment.)

   
  
   
   

eraioh |

Deputy Director for Operat

   
   

Handcarry (call 5441 (Karen)
2. Loe, we

 

      
  

 

    
  
  

Oeputy Director for Admini Handearry
_ General Counsel Handcarry ag! "
Legislative Counsel Handcarry =" .

  
  
   

5. : ;
Deputy Director of Central Intel] eoce |

Director of Central Intell

  
 
      

 

 

          

E PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

sr 810" SECRET ((] CONFIDENTIAL [1] Use omy | (CJ UNCLASSIFIED
74-0000

‘ se CEE or
ryt . Nee peek
nn . € Luo. . Cc

5. Oswald's visit to Mexico City and other developments there have
produced detailed discussion of certain events in HSCA drafts. One of
those intended by the Committee for unclassified publication has to do
with a man who made allegations that Oswald received money in the Cuban
Consulate for the purpose of killing the President. This considers the
investigation of the allegation, with criticisms of the performance of
the Agency. It involves detailed reference to the Station in Mexico.

The other section intended for unclassified publication has to do with

a man who flew to Cuba from Mexico City a few days after the assassination
of President Kennedy. Again, there is extensive reference to the role

of the Station. Another section referring to the Mexico City Station
involves detailed discussion of sensitive sources and methods; the position
on sources and methods is clear, but there is uncertainty in the Mexico |

Station aspect. (S) .

6. The present issue is whether there can be some euphemism for
describing CIA personnel in Mexico City for the investigation, without
specifying that they were assigned there on a permanent basis, or whether
we simply oppose any references. The Committee can be expected to contest
our objections to any references, to the Station or CIA's presence there |
for the investigation because the story cannot be told otherwise. To omit
such references would mean that these limited sections would probably have .
to be deleted or so emasculated as to render them sterile and incomprehensible. (C)

_ 7. The Warren Commission report has only limited references to CIA,
crediting it with reporting Oswald's visit to Mexico City prior to the ~S
assassination, and obtaininig by undisclosed means a photograph of an
unidentified man. Other information from CIA is not specified in the
report; while: the press has accurately described those matters, the Agency
has never officially confirmed it. (Cc) ;

 

8. The Church Committee report, in Book V, makes 28 separate refer-
ences to the Mexico Station (not Mexico Cit: Station}, or its Chief, or
_ dts communications with Washington, While this is not publication by CIA,
- qt has the quality of official confirmation by virtue of being contained -
ina Senate report. The Agency did not contest this at the time. Further,
the Agency subsequently approved references to the Mexico City Station and
its Chief, in the book published by David Phillips, possibly because
already public in the Senate report. (C) oO : 5

9. Staff Discussion: Since the Church Committee investigation, and
the approval of the references in the Phillips book, there has been an
increase in the sensitivity of the Mexico City Station. While CIA has
‘come under attack in the Mexican Press from time-to-time in the past, the
Station and the COS in particular recently have been the subject of a.
running campaign. This is the first time that a COS has been subjected :
to a prolonged personal attack in the local press. Heightened political
controversy within the ruling PRI Party has focused attention on the
Embassy and the Station, with allegations of bribery and other misdeeds
"we receive an official notice of the intent to publish, yo

ation on an informal basis and the five-day period does not apply.-

 

involving high-level officials. Because of the political discord within
the PRI, certain high-level Mexican officials have at least seen fit to
permit the continuation of this campaign if not supporting and instigating
it. Their objective is to tarnish the image of other officials who are
political opponents and traditionally have been very supportive of the
Station. The interest of the United States in Mexico's gas and petroleum
has heightened sensitivity concerning anything that may affect the
political atmosphere. The official publication by any U. S. Government
entity of material which confirms the presence of CIA operations in

Mexico (past or present) provides’ new ammunition for renewed attacks on

our Station and causes considerable embarrassment to the GOM. President
Carter will be visiting in Mexico soon. The president himself has instructed
the Attorney General that there can be no references to the Mexico City
Station in its prosecution of the ITT matter. While the President can
instruct a-member of the Executive Branch on this matter, a formal position
from him on this subject, directed to the Congress, does not have the-same

weight.

' .40. The agreement between you and Chairman Stokes provides that when
u have five days

have this inform-
Therefore,

this is posed to you in anticipation of a disagreement if discussions do

in which to respond to him if you object. At present, we

‘not produce a way around the issue.

11. Gur options are:

a. To seek some compromise by discussions; (u)
“b. Accept’ some euphemism that suggests the presence in.
Mexico of CIA people in 1964 for purposes of the investigation
without specifying that they were assigned there permanently; (c

6. Categorically oppose publication of those sections:
- .mentioning any CIA presence in Mexico. (¢ . ne
nd to pursue option (a), but prior to

42. Action Requested: We inte 1 (a),
) will be necessary to shape

doing so, your decision on options: (b) and (c
how we proceed.

oe, O, Met

S. D. Breckinridge ~

. Distribution:
1 - DCI 1-R. Holmes -
1.- DDCI 1 - Legislative Counsel
“7 -. ER 1 - OLC/Subj
1 - DDA “1 - OLC/Chron
1 - DDO OLC/SDB/kw - 9 Feb 1979
1 - OGC Attn: R. Rininger . ;
i - LA/DDO Attn: W. Sturbitts

OS Attn: J. Sullivan
