14-00000

Sanne

@. Asy information which would aid in identifying other
individuala in the photograph (Attachment A},

ad. The name, address, and any other identifying data
on the traveling companion whe accompanied Mira, KRAMER
and Miss NAMAN from Moscow te Warsaw vin Minsk.

10. Dissemination of Attachment A and pertinast identifying
_ information to the President's Commiseton on the Assassination of
President Kennedy ts being delayed pending receipt of your Bureau's
findings ia this matter.

FOR THE pErutY DIRECTOR, FOR PLANS:

Sivsade ote. -
BGR Sons): PL Bast Te

JAMES ANGLE TON

GSCI = 3/786, 612
3 Enclosures as cited above in paras. 2, 3% 5
Distribution:

Orig. & 1+ Addreasee .
1-G/cl
L-« C/CUSIG
1«C/CI/R&A -

~ C/SR |

1 = C/SR/CI i
2 - G/SB/CI/R (hald cy .& comeback ey)
Al -SR/O/0S/dd
4 = 201-289, 248

sn/ci/Research:| fet 19 March 1964

 
on

ATTACHMENT "A"

The 3" x 5'* photograph depicte:a:group-of persons standing near an —

autom obile on Tsentralnaya Floshchod (Central Square) in Minsk during an
afternoon on or about 10 August 1961 .
' The 8" x 10” enlargement of the:lower right quarter of the above
‘mentioned photograph provides a closer view of the persons grouped around
the automobile. | The second person from the right, standing with his hands
gin his pockets and wearing checkered short-sleeve sport shirt appears to be

dee Harvey OSWALD.

ne
14-00000

 

Road, Solvay, California, whe is possibly the female second frocs
the left in the photograph. None of the other individuals can be
further identified.

§. Mya. KRAMER and Mise NAMAN, both of whem are United
States citizens, were contacted by this Agsacy on & one-time basiz,
following taeir return freve their tour af the USER. The repert of
‘this contact, CO-B~3,212,967, dated Z1 March 1962, subject:
Realities/ Titov Parade/ Interrogation in Minsk F stlowing the Giving
Away of a US News Magasise, ia foruarded 43 Attachment C.

%& Mrs. KRAMER, who ia described as “an older companion
in the source description of Attachment C, furnished this Agency with
160 color transparencies taken during the trip. Attachment A is only
one of the five transparencies of which segative copies were made and

retained by this Agency. All of the 165 original color transparencies —

were returned te Mra. KRAMER.

7. Mise NAMAN, referzed taas “a college graduate* in the
source description of Attachment C, provided this Agency with one
rael of ior color movie film taken during the trip. The lilra was

viewed by this Agency and was subsequently returned to Mise NAMAN,

& This Agency has had no further contact with eliher hire.
KRAMER or Misa NAMAN oubsequent to the contact reflected in tha
report forwarded a9 Attachment ©.

3. This office would be interested in any pertinent information
which interviews of Mea, KRAMER and Mise NAMAN by your office

might possibly provide along the following Hanes:

a. Amore peattive identification of tha individual in
Attachment A tentatively identified. se OSWALD.

-b. The exact date and estimate of the time of day whea the
vhotograph ( {Attachment 4) was taken.

fe. Any information

 
14-00000

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Fedgeral Bureau of investigation.

SUBJECT ; Assassination of President John F. Kennedy

3. Jn the course of cur research of files pertaining to areaa of
the USSR fn which Lee Harvey OSWALD allegedly resided, a photograph
af an individual closely resembling OSWALD was uncovered,

2. Our files indicate that this photograph (Attachment A) came
from a color transparency taken in Minsk, USSR, om or about 1i August
1961, by an Amervican tenrist, Mrs. Monica 7. KRAMER, whose address
at the time wae F. 0, Bes 985, Selvanzg, California.

3. The photograph appears to have been takeu in Tsentral’na
Floshchad' (Central Square), which ie located in the center of Miask.
The building in the background has been identified aa The Palace of .
Culture. Sis people ave depicted in the photograph, The individual
second from the right, appears to be Lee Harvey OSWALD. # should be
. noted that the shirt this individual is wearing appears to be identical to
the shirt OSWALD is wearing in two photographs from the group of 47
photographs from the effects of OSWALD which were forwarded to this
Agency ia your commeniecation of 3 March 1964, Hle number (5) 165-2555,
subject: Assassination of President John F¥. KENNEDY. Copies of these
two photograghs of OSWALD are forwarded with this report as Attachment B.

4. Source of the photograph identified one of the females in the picture,

possibly the one on the left, aa Svetlana (LNV), an Inturist guide. Source
was accompanied by another American, Miss Rita NAMAN, 595 Attardeg

1

Document Number Glas c a . Read, Solvang |
. ; % peices ue BA oe et: wees.

oo |

|

    

for FOIA Review on JUN 1976”

 
14-00000

 

  

aed

ere es PPAR EN

We

ay

ee a

 

 
14-00000

 

 

ATTACHMENT "Bp"

Copies of two photographs
found among the effects of Lee
Harvey OSWALD and identified
as having been taken in the
OSWALD apartment in Minsk
in 1962.

These photographs bear

FBI number D-33 #16 and #30

 

 
14-00000

. ‘- : - oo ( SEChET ( (

} 4. stischment “A” appears te sabstaatiate O15 4 L's

presence ia Mine af lesst during the varomer of 1951 and io

indicate that he had ¢cgetact ai least on cue accasicw with
Amazican tourials viasting that sity, a3 be anee claimed im
a letter te Ris brother, Robset Cswald.

S. The information above aad the attachmenta were
relerred te tae FSI fer domectic suplaitation, The resales
of their investigation are being made available dizectly to
the President's Commission.

Richard Npims mo,
DLepaty Oirector for Plage

Distribution:

Orig & 2 + Addressee
2-DDP
1l+- C/CI/REA
#2 -SR/CIU/R

Originated by: LHWigren:mkb (27 April 1964) -

 
104-10051-10202

a . . . aa . “y
. coe , . . a . ‘ q

 

rs

~*

ARSC
(

—
aon

~

an
/

} . . 2G Gprk 19o%

ppfhei- alee

MEMCRANGSUM FOR : “Me. J, Lee Rankia
General Counsel
President's Commission on the
Assaoaination af President Kensedy

SUBJECT Photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD

1, Av tha regult of a search of our graphics files for pictures
pertineat to the atory of Lee Harvey COSWALD's sojourn ia the —
USSR, we have found the attached photograph (Attachment "A‘'}
of a group of persons standing near the Palace of Culture in Minak.
This photograph was taken by an American tourist tn Minsk on
or about ll August 1961. Although the persons in the photograph |
are not idsatified in our filea, we believa on the basis of compari-
soa with other pictures that the second person from tha right is
Lee Harvey CSW ALD,

2 The aegative of thix photograph was made fram a color
slide taken by Mires. Monica F. Kramer, a United States citizes,
duriag & trip through the USSR ia Augast ijel. irs. Sramer
was a resident of Solvang, California at the time she made the
trip. The picture was mads available to CIA routinely and volus-
tarily by Mea. Kramer after the trip. CIA had no contact with
Mrs. Kramer before or during her trip to the USS2..

“3. It is worth agting that the perzun believed to be CSt ALD
is wearing a short-sleeved sport shirt of the same design or pattern
as one worse by USWALD in pictures takea of hia in his apartment
im Biinak in 1962. Copies of two such photographs, which were
found among CLW A.LD's effects aiter- hie arrest and forwarded ta
ua by the Federal BDuraay of Inveatigation, are attached for
‘Comparison purposes, (Attachment "5") ; eee veeewuntyemie ta be

~“Bocument vonber Gil-ARG

Nath BLOLIS Cola ota fu

- POW "pale Rew on JUN 1976

eye Tseng aly

  
 

 

oN

  

 
14-00000

~~
on
—,
~~

AT TACHSENT NAY

The 3" x &" photograph depicts @ group of persons standing |
‘near ae automobile on Tsentralnaya Pleshched (Ceatral Jcuara)
in Minsk during an afternoon on or about LL August 1961.

The 8" x 10" enlargement of the lower right quarter of the
above mentioned photograph provides a clover view of the persons
grouped argund the autemobile. The ascond person from the right,
atandiag with his hands in hie pockets and wearing checkered short-
sleeve sport shirt appears to be Lee Harvey COWALD.

  
      
   

  

GROW 4
Excloded irom avtomatts

downgeadinz ang
Seclaesislsation

SEGRET

 
14-00000

t

|

 

[perrenermneenrmiinnr rte mane ct

Oren

 
