13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

let me know if you have any problems with
the above proposal. Feel free to phone me (30292) or Linda
(76124) if you have any questions or concerns.

   

 

Jarry Harrelson

ec: C/BRG

 

 

 

Ellie Neiman

2

 

RATIVE ~ INTERNAL USE ONLY

 
404-10334-10111

Jf

a

 

98
-

Z

.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

24 June 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
FROM: Barry Harrelson
SUBJECT: ARRB Request re Angelton and Scott

1. Jeremy Gunn, ARRB staff, has requested (via
telephone) access to the following files/documents:

a. Winston Scott documents, including the entire
manuscript_It Came to Little, and personal effects seized on
Winston Scott's death;

b. files of James Angelton housed in the CI
vault. .

2. As handled the recent FOIA
litigation brought ichael Scott (Win's son) for all

documents on his fat er, Linda has copies of documents
responsive to Gunn's first request in her office. I have
spoken with Linda and we agree that, with your concurrence,
the best course of action would be to have Gunn view the
Scott documents and manuscript at OGC. You should be aware
that during the course of that litigation, searches were
conducted to locate personal effects seized by CIA upon
Scott's death. Those effects were never located, but a
destruction record that seems to refer to these personal
effects was located and provided to OGC. Gunn would need
access to that destruction record as well. .

 

3. The second request of Gunn also was an issue in
the Scott FOIA litigation. At that time the DO told IP&CRD
that all Angelton documents were sorted through in the 1970s
and that a separate CI Angelton holding no longer exist.
Official files were incorporated into DO record system and
material not deemed to be official records were destroyed.
To the extent that any destruction records exist on
Angelton's records, Jeremy would like to see these as well.
Linda and I suggest that the DO search for any such
destruction records and forward them to OGC. In this way,
Jeremy can view them at the same time he views the Scott
documents.

4. Jeremy has agreed that if CIA allows him to view
the above records "informally" and he finds nothing that
relates to the assassination, then he will not make an
"official request" for these records. Of course, any
records he believes to be relevant, he will have to make an
official request and they will then become part of the JFK
Collection.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
