 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- ood 4
NOTE: The also. included
information the had received
from —s—=§—S on 8 June. said that he

had teen providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

so. He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI. one of them who runs a guard service

in Miemi. __ did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds. ;

4. The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends
with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United
States legally, deport him toe Guatemala.

c. .Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the
United States for possible use in
Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen- ;
‘tial treatment by U. S. authorities which
permit him to carry firearms, as well as"
to purchase arms and ammunition for

, shipment to Guatemala?

e, Any information on Robert and Gerald
HEMMING?

5. On 19 June 1976 °° = 2 2=222Sté<“‘<‘C‘<CS*‘éC:é*‘“;*‘ Mie.
that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State
Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative | in pertinent
variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

7. From the name, physical description, activity, and
alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is identical with the subject of Office of Security file
429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,
who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as
of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation
company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in
Miami, Florida.

2
RATT

eLunl
404-10160-10026}-.~~--.-

i

cena Coenen tage emt ttt mete nemettintabetentenne nest een tn es ct tts eink ene nent

 

 

 

_ copy of the report. coming in from the |

  

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT : HEMMING, Gerald Patrick
. SF#429 229

1. On 9 June 1969. . a
contacted Staff and Operations ‘Branch/Operational ‘Evaluation

' Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

_. was referred to the writer, “who is holding the HEMMING
file. When _ contacted the writer, advised that he
is the action officer for a cable from the
reporting an assassination plot on the life of President ~

 

 

 

 

LAUGERUD of Guatemala. was unfamiliar with the case of
Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file
on HEMMING,. _ Was requested to alert ~~~ and JMWAVE

to the below-méntioned cable and to provide thé writer with a

 

 

2.0 _ provided the writer with a copy of the cable
CIN 944357, }, dated 8 June 1976),
which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that
circa 8 June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of
Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the |
a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot
to assassinate President LAUGERUD. According to the informa-
tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September
1975; however, one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio
"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result
of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living
in Miami since August 1975,

 

 

3. ‘According to the report, the National Liberation
Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot

_and ZIMERI in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. ~ The HEMMING brothers
assisted ZIMERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which
were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft. The report also
claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police. officials
in Miami and New Orleans.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994

 

FOl-O3s'|Doeys
: ; oy : 5
- as wm ERG : vos
. eee noon es Bee

8. Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,
the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JNWAVE. On
numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's, HEMMING
had clained Agency affiliation when in fact there has been
none, The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such
affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services
to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Gerald Patrick HEMMING
is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),
aka: Frenk FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who “also has a
long-time record of falsely claiming Agency affiliation. In
the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,
joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter -
Claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause. Soon thereafter,
STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

. Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Communist Brigade. A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"
(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was
named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald
Patrick HEMMING. :

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of
a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot
involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant
memorandum, to wie: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June
1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;
and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by
Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN. The book Coup d'etat
in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John’ F. Kennedy
is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to Link the Agency
with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major
links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,”
Jr. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene
HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Intercenti-
nental Penetration Force. Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide
publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"
GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration
Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY
and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON
shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is
interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and
another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

£ o
a

Po

Jerry G. Brown
Deputy Chief
Security Analysis Group

Atts
