13-00000

 

my complaints against the Warren Report is that adverbs like

"fairly," "“Probably,*® "Perhaps," etc. are used to slide over a
great number of difficulties.

Cooper: This is to exclude circumstantial evidence, because

_ circumstantial evidence can never be certainty, of course.

i f-R: Yes, but im the absolutely essential links, I think it
is important to state what is circumstantial evidence and what

is not.

Lewis: Now let me proceed and you can decide whether it is

 

circumstantial or not.

T-R: May I interrupt you?

ce ae tl aad AA ate

Lewis: Yes, sir.

T-R: You are presently on a particular point, that is to say,

the carrying of the gun in. You'll remember that in my article

I never stated that it was, that Oswald did not carry the gun in,

and my case does not rest on any such suggestion. I said he may
have carried it in and he may have fired it. My statement is not

a denial that he carried it in. My statement was to point out

that the evidence that he carried it in is not valid, and my

\ charge against the Report is not on this issue at all, it is that the
procedure of the Commission in building up this Report has been

lax throughout.
13-00000

 

-G-

Lewis: Perhaps I misunderstood, I thought you were judging, as I
read the pire that you wrote, I thowght you were judging the Report
as a report. You made some statements that were quite categorical.
One of which was, as I recall, just to move on, I haven't gone

on with all the evidence there was, ef persons seeing Oswald

with the gun in his hand, fingerprints on the gun, on the bag, on
boxes around ~ pretty complete evidence by the ordinary standard.
But you made, for example, a categorical statement that the police

must have taken notes of their interrogation of Oswald.

f-R: Now, what are you asking me about?

Lewis: Well, let me finish my question, perhaps, and that the
notes were destroyed, That's again a rather serious charge. Do

you stand by that charge?

T-R: I stand by my statement that I‘*n astonished that in these
circumstances no notes were kept and one explanation, the one
which I accepted was that they were cestroyed. If you tell me

there's another explanation, there's anether explanation.

Coopers When you say notes, Professor, do you mean notes taken
actually at the moment when Oswaid was being interrogated, or

notes made subsequent to the interresation?

T-R3; I mean record of what he said.
13-00000

 

 

-J-

T-R: Now what you must run down is the evidence that he brought

the bag containing the gun into the book depository.

Lewis: Yes, but you know the way things work in life, Professor
frevor Roper, if I may say so, is that ordinarily in the case \
of murders, you don't have six witnesses standing around watching

the killing.
T-R: No.

Lewis: Circumstantial evidence is necessarily relied on, and

that's what exists in most cases and exists in great detail in

this case. So, if you'll forgive me, I'll tell you what I think

is relevant to the facts. Number 1, the ownership of the gun by
Oswald was established beyond any doubt. The place where he kept
it was established, the fact that it was not there immediately

after the killing was established, and that the shape of the gun
was still shown on the blankets where it had been kept. The fact j
that he made a bag, a paper bag, out of materials available at the j
place where he worked was fairly well shown. That he carried

a bag -

T-R: Now, now, may I interrupt? You are talking about "fairly
well." I believe that in a matter as delicate as this it's

important to know what is certain and what is not certain. Half

 
13-00000

 

 

=-6-

 

Childers: Well, gentlemen, can I suggest, really what we're

getting at here is your fundamental question, I think, Professor

. frevor-Roper -~ whether there is evidence that Lee Harvey Oswald

took a gun into the book depository building, behind the
President's car as it was travelling, and whether he fired it.
The pathologist's evidence concerned whether thare was a bullet
wound in the front of the neck, going into the front or. the
back, and so on. Now, do you still claim that there is no

evidence that Oswald teck the gun in and fired it?

fT-R: There is no valid evidence that Oswald took the gun in.
The question of whether he fired it is a different matter and
the evidence is of a slightly different character.

What do you mean by that?
Childers: Tony Lewis.

Lewis: Yes, I would ask the same question. You said there is
no valid evidence. I should just like to run down a bit of the
evidence which the Commission had which seems to me to be extra-
ordinarily more detailed than would be produced in the ordinary
criminal trial. I don't know whether you've read many reports
of criminal trials. But just let me run down a few things that

they had.
13-00000

 

 

  

it was subjected, and, therefore, the FBI judged that it was no
longer valid evidence and made another bag and submitted the
ether bag 2? « Now, I made a mistake in reading
the evidence and I was writing under a certain pressure of time

and I noticed that mistake afterwards. I noticed it before it

was pointed out because, as you say, the original bag, discolored

though it was, remained an exhibit, and as soon as that was
brought to my attention, I withdrew. I'm not going to defend

myself on grounds where I think I was wrong. I made a mistake.

Lewis: No, well of course it is understandable, anyone can make
amistake. But it is a rather serious charge, at least I think
it would ordinarily be considered serious to charge the
authorities in any country with deliberately destroying evidence
and I shouldn't think that one would do that lightly. Say that
lightly.

f-R: I was not making any charges. I was stating what I
believed to be facts. One of the facts, which I stated, was
erroneous in that particular, and as soon as it was brought to

my attention, I withdrew it.

Cooper: Can I take up another point, Professor, with you? And
that's with regard to the pathologist's notes. Now you said,

in your first article in the Sunday Times, that Dr. Hughes, who
was the chief pathologist conducting the autopsy, had burned all

his original notes. Do you stand by that statement today?

newegg ee
13-00000 |

-§-

 

T-R: Burned his original notes?
Cooper: All his original notes, were your words, Professor.
T-R: All -- I think are his words too.

‘Cooper: No, they're net, Professor, because, in fact, when he

gave evidence, he said all he had done was a first preliminary

draft. Can I perhaps remind you what, in fact, took place was
/ that Dr. Hughes had, in fact, taken his notes at the autopsy,
they were preserved, and they were given to the Commission. All
he had done was, when he had gone home to draft his repert, he
did a first draft, no doubt as you would do if you were writing
4 an article for Sunday Times again, he didn't like it very much
| and he threw that in the fire when he had done his second draft

report. ‘That's what was burned.

T-R: I was quoting his actual affidavit.

' . Cooper: Well now, even his actual affidavit didn't say that.
4 ; T-R: What does it say?

Cooper: The original affidavit said that the chief pathologist
at the - well, this is in fact what you say, that the..

T-R: No, I want to know what the actual affidavit said.
Cooper: The actual affidavit said that he had burnt his notes

T-R: Just a minute, it doesn't say “he,” it says "I.*
13-00000 -

 

BBC Television Interview - Professor Trevor-Roper - 14 January 1965

Erskine B. Childers, Moderator: Tonight's encounter is with
Professor Hugh Trevor-Roper, who is the regius professor of
modern history at oxford. Last September, the Warren Commission
on the assassination of President Kennedy brought out its massive
report with over twenty volumes of evidence. It found that

Lee Harvey Oswald, and he alone, killed the President. A month
ago, Professor Trevor-Roper published a sensational article in
the Sunday Times dissenting from these findings. Now to talk

to him are: Anthony Lewis, who covered the Warren Commission
investigation for the New York Times and is now their London
correspondent, and Louis Bland Cooper, criminologist, writer on

legal affairs in the Observer, and lecturer at London University.

Professor Trevor-Roper, the killing of President Kennedy was
followed by waves of rumor and speculation about who aia it and
whether there was a conspiracy, but the Warren Report seems to have
satisfied virtually everyone. Now I think many people were
astonished that you, as a scholar, have reopened the whole

affair in this way. Why did you do it?

Professor Trevor-Roper: I did it because it didn't satisfy me.
I agree that there was loud public acceptance of the Warren Report
when it was published, and, indeed, some papers stated openly

that by now all doubts were resolved and no problems remained.

ran
cor" 2o/- 2 PILYE

hits CELA -{233E i
104-10010-10032
§

-3

eens ened fein Eanes ee ene tee ee

 

DISPATC

  
 

   
  

: ne | HEADQUARTERS DESK ° |
J CW
enter of station] KR

Television Interview — Professor TREVOR-ROPER

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

le We are enclosing herewith a tape recording
of a BBC-2TV program "Encounter" which vas shown on

. 14 January 1965 at 1930 hours. This thirty-—minute

program was devoted to interviewing Professor
TREVOR-ROPER regarding his Sunda ees article
criticizing the warren Commission Report on the
assassination of President Kennedy. The participants
are identified on the tape; the moderato:, who is
not identified, is Erskine B. CHILDERS.

2. A duplicate copy of this tape was given to
the ODENVY representative,

Eric T. DILLARD

 

#2
ye

Attachment: Tape

  

eset

sie
Distribution: GIAHIS: Reiee:
3-Chief, WE w/att herewith

 

   

CS COPY Fiien yy Ref—dr_\ | __ a
wa Jol- 289248
iS
= | CROSSREFERENCETO.©=™~OOOC~<‘<CS;S;~CS*w are
Ry — - OELA42, Souza |
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER:
13-00000

-2-

And this was the official reaction. But I must say, I find’.

that in talking in America to ordinary, educated people, that

scepticism is very wide.

Cooper: Professor, when did you first think that the Warren
Commission's Report might not be as sound as most of us thought
that it was in its findings that only Lee Harvey Oswald was the
killer of President Kennedy?

T-R: When I read the Report.

Coopers Yes, but at what state, I mean what particular fact
lead you to begin to suspect its validity?

T-R: Well, I think the first thing that struck my mind when I
read that Report was the problem of the killing of Tippet, which
seemed to me handled in a very vague and indeed evasive manner.

Childers: This is the killing of the policeman, very soon: after

‘

President Kennedy. ; ‘*
\

T-R: Yes. ‘The whole chain of reasoning whereby the Warren |
Report seems to establish that Oswald had killed Tippet and that
Oswald had been identified, in some way, as the possible \

assassin of the President, and that Tippet, we must presume, “

had approached him with that suspicion in his mind. All this
\

 
13-00000

 

  

seemed to me very strange and unconvincing and a positive.

difficulty about the timing. How did he do it?

Lewis: Professor Trever~-Roper, that wag ene point you made in
your article. You said, in essence, you rested your case on
quoting a few central facts which render the whole Report
suspect, the one you just mentioned is one of them. Then you.
suggested that the police notes, alleged police notes of the
interrogation of Oswald had been destroyed, that the patholegist,
the doctor, had been persuaded to adjust his evidence to the
police view, the pathologist's notes had been destroyed, and
that a bag in which the Commission found Oswald had carried the
gun to his place of employment had been destroyed. Taking those

particular points which you made, perhaps in reverse order, the

point about the paper bag you've now withdrawn. I think you

said you'd eat humble pie on that because you asserted that the
bag had been destroyed when, in fact, it hadn't been destroyed.
Indeed, a picture of it was printed in the Report. It was

«eferred to frequently, and I must say I wonder how could anyone

doing a scholarly piece of work, which you said you were doing,

‘have made such a mistake.

Prof. T-R: Well, we all make mistakes, and I admitted that
mistake. That bag was destroyed as evidence in the sense that

it was discolored beyond recognition by chemical tests to which
