 

~ SHET =

wae

(9) Subject is a responsivle person with ne known character

weaknesses.
(19) Subject to witting of CLA interest, He ‘hes not deen

eiven any knovledge of C1A.

<D. Training Requireiénts:
2 L ‘

(1) General .

a, Suoject will be availeble for full time ‘training.

od. The sugested training dete is 17 duly = 1 August.

ce. Training ares: Vashington, D.C. or vicinity. Sudject

“will not enter Agency buildings.

d. Traineo will use the cover that he ic visiting Washington
for business reasons. iiis alias in training will be
Charles Hernandez.

e. Training will be conducted in english.

f, His understanding and application of clardeztine techniques.

g. Trainee will be monaging other agents, tnerefore his
agent handling should | be carefully ouserved,
h, Kone. :

g. Reauire: ments for orales.¢ Covert Training:

(1) ‘Training objective, The trainee should realize -the necessity
of conducting himself securely at all times. As an independent agent
he should have reached s level of competence that he has conficence in
his own aollity to ure the clandestine techniques taught to hin,

(2) Sugyested training sublects: General Intelligence Orientation,
Sasic Tracecraft, Rerorting, Slicitation, Counter Intelligence, Agent
Fecrultment and Agent Handling. Hmphasis througnout the treining should
ba clven to agent recruitment and handling. All other cuvieets should be
given equal treatment,

(3) Follew up: Suoject will work closely with a CIA case officer
at the Forward Operating ace in hiaml who will provide Guotect with
furtaer guidence and training required to fulfi)1 snecifiec tasks he will
assign Suoject,

 

Pistrioution:
orig & 1 ~ Addresses
1 = C/ct/izp ,

 

 

!
i
|
|

 
 

104-10180-10130

 

. ; 40 June 1981

MAPORAMDEL POR: Director of Tiskaang
Attention: ¢ Covert Training/cs/TR
VIA 2 Chef, CL otal
Attention: G:ief/21/1CD

Sg OT : JrATE Froject « Request for Training of ACRE

OA Initistion of the Sesuest:

© (4) 18t/4/cuba .
(2) The “eadqurrters case officer is Ralph G, Seehafer,
Room 2604 Quarters Eye, “xt. “01, who will have contact with the
. : Subject. Alternate case officer will ns | reo

and phone, : ~

8. The Projects

(1) UNATE approved 17 Derch 1960.

(2) The ourpose of training the agent is to provide formal
tradeer=ft and operational orocetures to a person who is relalively new
in the field of intelligence out who has had some prectical exverience,
The training is expected to prepare Ai. [22-1] for principal agent functions,

(3) Subject is witting of Orvanization sponsorshio.

C. The Trainee:

(1) Contract agent,
{2) OA number C=82Z055) 30 June 1960,
(3) U.S. citizen (naturalized)

)

oun, f

f te is dilizgual in English and Sparish.
Has “had no previous training out was used oy tne Havana
Station as a cutout and, after tne oreak in-dinlomatic relations with
‘Cuba, Ovcame the orincipe] srent of one of the stayoehind nets in Cuba,

(6) Snodject will be assigned to the rorward Operating 3ase in

 

bana,

 

 

 

Piaind,
(7) Sudject will be provided a notional but bac stopped business
cover, It is intended tnat he oe used as a princip2l agent or case

orricer's a:sistant,
(8) Subject has beer antorsed that, he will receive oasic

Antellicvence tralning.

SECRET
