74-00000

  

 

Secretary « of State for the Armed Forces on béhalf of Juan ¢
Bosch, BAST did: not indicate to Qwen if had | Performed _

the Job.

 

(There is no record of a clearance having vec issued for

utilization of Richard L, BAST or.REDEX, )

 

 

 

7

eo

 

i

i
H

BeSonic soit Some cece ee ciel

 

 
74-0000

 

 

 

overseas, BAST, described as "unscrupulous and untrust-
worthy", is knows to have attempted to contract with another
private detective for planting a remote-controlled bomb in the
headquarters of the Haiti Secret Police, and has been reported
to have undertaken similar extreme assignments for exile
groups from Haiti and the Dominican Republic. (Based on
derogatory information on file, DCS, in March 1967, decided
against previously contemplated contact with BAST as a
source of information on Asia. )

BAST, REDEX, and William W. TURNER of RAMPARTS

CA Staff has provided information that during January 1967,
William W, TURNER, who identified himself as a free-lance
writer, visited the offices of the Asia Foundation, requesting
information for a magazine article. He stated that he had
been asked by Sol Stern of New York to gather information for
an article in the New York Times, During his visit, however,
it became obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions
about the financing of the foundation, rather than its actual
purpose or activities, When TURNER concluded the interview
he left a calling card with the firm name “REDEX-PACIFIC".
He explained he had to have new cards printed. TURNER,
reportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is noted to have
authored an article in the November 1966 issue of RAMPARTS
Magazine in which he describes alleged wiretapping, sur-
reptitious entry, etc., performed by him while with the FBI,
Sol Stern, whom he claimed to represent, is assistant
managing editor of RAMPARTS Magazine.

Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exile

{The foregoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVEL
with FURR, FURR's connection with BAST, anda possible
connection between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS,
The following indicates the only CIA involvement in the chain
which might be exploited in subsequent attempts tu link CIA
to the entire affair in question, )

/
On 29 April 1963, Robert E, Owen, then Chief, WE/3 and
now off directed a memorandum to the Chief,

SE bles 8

   

 
74-00000

 

WH/6 in which he documented a conversation he had on

27 April 1963, with Raymond CASSAGNOL, an anti-Duvalier
exile from Haiti, In the memorandum he relates that the
conversation took, glace in the home of Richard L, BAST
whom Owen had met through a neighbor, Lloyd FURR.

The memorandum relates CASSAGNOL's. background, family,
political stance, etc. Reported as significant by Owen isa
statement by BAST that the following week BAST would be
sending a shipload of arms to a CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
in the Dominican Republic. Owen noted: 'Raymond
CASSAGNOL gives appearance of thinking well of Richard
BAST, According to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,

also knows BAST and respects him, Thus BAST, in spite of
certain persona} shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,
does represent an established channel to at least one segment
of the Haitian opposition to Duvalier. Since according to his
own statement, BAST is supplying arms to CASSAGNOL's
groups, further transactions of this type via BAST presumably
would not be difficult to arrange." He also provided a detailed
information on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had
mentioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that
“CIA double-crossed them" (the Dominicans), :

An FBI report on BAST dated 19 June 1963 reports that Owen,
"Foreign Service Reserve Officer, USDS"' (his cover) had
reported 16 May 1963 his attendance at dinner at BAST's home
on 27 April 1963, Owen told of his meeting with CASSAGNOL,
BAST's intention to sell arms to the Dominican Republic and
Haitian exiles, etc. He also reports that on 7 May 1963, BAST
asked him to perform some translation work, The translation,
he stated, related to BAST giving a power of attorney to one
Luis MORENO Martinez of the Dominican Republic to prepare
documentation for legal establishment of REDEX CORPORATION,
C POR A, a DR branch of BAST's firm, According to Owen,
40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National
Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and an
individual well-connected with Dominican Republic police and
intelligence groups, BAST is also noted to have told Owen

of an offer BAST had made to "bug”’ the office of the Dominican

 

\

OM

 
74-0000

 

 

the case intends to use his C1A connections as part of his defense

and that still others Linked to the Garrison investigation have been
named as acting for the super-secret espionage organization--as
informers, as couriers and munitions carriers", It named Novel as -
having the strongest ties to CIA, and quotes him as calling the alleged
bunker burglary as "the most patriotic burglary in history", He .
reportedly has told associates, states the news item, that the alleged
theft was a war materials pickup made at the direction of his CIA
contact. According to Novel, the late David William Ferrie, and
others were involved in the bunker incident. He stated that the
explosives were picked up and consolidated soon after the bunker
incident and eventually taken by boat to Cuba for use in a diversionary
operation in connection with the Bay of Pigs invasion, (This statement
conflicts with Novel's reported statement to the FBI's ‘media source,
paragraph one above, which dates the bunker theft as three months
after the Bay of Pigs, District Attorney Garrison also has charged
the bunker incident took place three months after the Cuban invasion, )
The newspaper also quotes Novel as contending that he operated the
Evergreen Advertising Agency in New Orleans as a front fot CIA
communications in an elaborate use of commercials to alert agents

to the date of the Bay of Pigs invasion,

4. Novel, according to the press report, has said "I think
Garrison will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana", but did not
elaborate, His attorney, however, would appear to place little faith
in Novel's claims, In a Columbus, Ohio, interview, Jerry Weiner,
attorney for Novel, when told of the press reports of Novel'’s state-
ments, said: "It's utterly ridiculous, Novel is not now and has never
been a CIA agent."

5. There.is no record of any utilization of Gordon Dwane Novel,

Sergio V. Arcacha Smith, or the Evergreen Advertising Agency, (In
addition to Office of Security records, WH/Cuba, RID, and CI Staff
were checked for possible indication of operational involvement, )

6. Inquiries with WH/Cuba, the Office of Logistics, and
several Agency officers involved with munitions storage in the New
Orleans area at the time of the Bay of Pigs fail to develop any
indication of past operational activity of the nature described by Novel.
Officers who handled project munitions storage in the area have indi-
cated that all the munitions were stored at a reactivated Naval depot

 

 

 

 
 

[0d 10105-10139

him
o
!

 

LWAi es

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support

 
 

IBJECT - ‘1 Glaimed Agency Affiliation by
i Conspiracy Case Figures

 

1, This memorandum is for your information only.

2.° On the afternoon of 24 April 1967, the Federal Bureau of

Investigation advised this Office of claimed Agency affiliation by a
fugitive witness in the New Orleans investigation into a conspiracy to
‘assassinate the late President. According to the FBI information,
received from a news media source, Gordon Dwane Novel, the

' fugitive witness, had indicated he is currently employed by the CIA
and the alleged burglary of a munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana,
in 1961, involved CIA and was not a burglary. According to Novel,
the Schlumberger Well Service had an arrangemént with CIA wherein ~
it leased a bunker in which ammunition, bomb casings and other
material would be stored for CIA, According to Novel, it was
intended to ship the material out of the U.S. in Schlumberger boxes
labeled "machinery", Again according to Novel, following the Bay
of Pigs invasion, the Schlumberger interests became upset and
wanted out of their contract with CIA, Three months after the
invasion, states Novel, arrangements were made for the material
stored in the bunker to be removed by Novel and his group, At the
time the material was removed, he states, an individual involved
also took some of Schlumberger's low grade powder and fuses and
other material, Novel has reportedly supplied someone with the
names of the others involved with the burglary. He specificially
told the media source that he and one Arcacha Smith are still
employed by CIA and that should he be returned to New Orleans
to face charges of burglary of the bunker, he would offer this as his
defense,

“et.

3. The following day, 25 April, a story in the New Orleans
Sates Item charged there is mounting evidence of Central Intelli-
gence Agency links in District Attorney Garrison's presidential
assassination conspiracy probe, noting that at least one figure in

Re PO
P2eGX UIC 4 sO O
. YoNct Reproduss

   

hey
art
74-0000

 

. mena eg
a

and completely under Agency control, Munitions in transit were |
guarded, and there is no knowledge of utilization of commercial
storage facilities of the Schlumberger interests or any other
commercial firm, (The Office of Logistics has had dealings in the
past with Schlumberger-related firms, but has avoided activities
with the Schlumberger firm because of its foreign ownership and
questionable personalities in the firm, DCS has had an interest in
the past in some personalities affiliated with Schlumberger, but
reportedly unrelated to any matters ae alleged by Novel, )

 

7. As noted above, Novel haa claimed to the press that the :
munitions from the bunker were to be used Hr a diversionary
operation at the time of the Bay of Pige, Agency officers familiar
with the operation at the reactivated Naval depot, the Belle Chasse
Ammunition Depot, have indicated that such a diversionary opera-
tion was based at Belle Chasse, but that the operation was cancelled
before a landing was made, Any number of participating Cubans
would be aware such a diversionary operation was planned,

8. The CI Staff, in a detailed staff study of the Garrison
investigation, has noted past CIA contact with only two figures named
in the inquiry, Clay L. Shaw and Garlos Bringuier, in both cases the
contact was limited to Domestic Contact Service activities, The
study specifically notes there have been no documented Agency
utilization of Novel, Ferrie or Arcacha Smith, those named by Novel
in his statements to the press about the bunker incident,

 

9. During the course of our inquiries into Novel's charges,
one tenuous link was developed which conceivably could be exploited
and distorted in attempts to link this Agency with Novel and others,
An interlinking with a personality reportedly from Ramparts Magazine
might also indicate a connection between Novel's charges and the con-
certed efforts of some to smear the Agency. This situation is
described in an attachment to this memorandum,

 

stots Ste at

Howard J, Osborn
Director of Security

1 Att . , :

   
74-0000

 

So SEORET EYES Gil
“ . A. NOVEL Is Polygraphtili} iuloyd KURA Mh ’Garsteonts Charges,

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the
Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27
March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the a
case under investigation by Garrison, According to the press Jad
reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination oe
conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR, In statements
to the press, FURR indicated there was no indication of
deception to NOVEL 's charges that Garrison's case is a
"fraud", ;

 

 

B. Lloyd FURR's Relationship to Richard L, BAST and REDEX,

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Columbia policeman and now
a private detective, is a self-proclaimed polygraph "expert"
and sound device specialist, He has received publicity in the
past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr, a
in the St, Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he ~
discovered listening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine,
In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D. C, |
firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was i
attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via |
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with
FURR in 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by FURR, )

 

~ 4
C. Richard L. BAST and REDEX, |

 

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained : :
noteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously

unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the

Bobby Baker case, He is known to operate at least four

enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

private detective agency; 2) REDEX VIETNAM, INC,, a firm

which imports a variety of commodities ranging from liquor to

automobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S. -recruited

"go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is planning; 3) REDEX
CORP,, a firm which sells almost anything to anybody abroad,
other than South Vietnam; and 4) CONSOLIDATED ARMAMENTS,
INC,, a firm which sells small arms tu foreign governments and
Private individuals abroad, BAST also produces and distributes
both positive audio and counteraudio devices in the U.S, and

  
