 

 

 

 

a Procurewent of safehouses > post |

Purchase of information, documents

- Repair, maintenance and ‘purcliase of

vir.

 

MOL

. Operational Expenses or ad 7
‘Real Estate . , —

ou “automobiles oo

BERGRY CONDITIONS

 

 

Rent, utilities and’ ‘maintenance. aan
of basehouses - . 7

“ LIMETED* |
LICALEN

 

: LELYRIC..

 

office boxes, and rental of ‘

 
    

, and bribes

 

   

... SUB TOTAL oo 2 9,200. |

 

- Replacement photographic equipment

end purchase of film © “Lzo00_

SUB TOTAL a — 23000

= -

. ‘um as 2 9 $08 49,700

 

 

 

 

5,390

us 560 -

-fus 30,290

 

 

 

3,810

kho

 

$US 19,410

““Bergency pecontact _ arrangements for: Oliver G SCANTLING- and “Raymond } He.

 

 

TRAIN

 

 

 

 

_ GERENDE: are:on file-in Headquarters (seb. HMMA 15982 of.:23 November 1960 and
‘| HMMA 15981 of 23 November’ 1960+). (For further information ‘see’ roJect, ‘renewal
. request, of 1960 forwarded by HYMA 5979 :

 

 

other than that - ‘within the competency f SCANTLING ‘or- GERENDE

 

pat

 

he coming project: ye

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

   

ww
an
+.
‘
a te per cet a cate seme ee seevimn epee es rr en cr et
. . . i
. 4 noe
. z a ( ae oee : C %
. ‘ . . i
ay BE
‘ . . i .

 
   

   

$US per year Fv196h. oY

 

  
 
 

Oliver Ge SAILING

“ Louise-J. MACRINO’
(at us a 02 per. how)

 

   

SET

 

7 *SSrEMPry- 5:
(at US 175. per Pour)

. LIEMPTY- 6
. “LIEMPTY-7
‘Lomery-8
- LTEMPTY- 9. .
LIEMPTY-10 .
| LIBPTY-11 7
LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPIY-13

 

LIEMPTY-L4

 

TEMPTY-19 |.

   

LIEMPT YOu ca mo a ‘re salary os SL
SUBTOTAL: . no 5, 39,500 $US 24,340 © gus 15,160

 

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

 

       

Transportatio . ;
Maintenance of Mv-2279 > WwW 228h, .
WY 2256 mo a ~~. | 2,000

 
 

: 2. "To collect, operatiorial infornation and. identify operational leads —
‘pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." ‘The LIENTRAP operation,
‘handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this objective. . ‘

. LIENTRAP.. operational emphasis continues,-to: remain in the area of photo stakeout
of prominent Mexican Communists and is. presently. working fulltime on providing.

\ “pictures of individual Comminists > homes suspected of being meeting sites used
by the Commmist Party and the Communist Party. Headquarters itself. LIENTRAP

“has also recently ‘ ‘begun to be used on ZRKNICK leads. ; It is expected that
activities of JTEITRAP, in that Jatt rea. will expand in the | coming” year. .

  

oe. "9, provide ‘operational support +o ‘Station operations Including the
“panting of hotel rooms and safe apartments, renting and servicing. of post office
boxes, and conducting ‘counter~surveillances.' GERENDE's contribution to the
AMROD operation was noted in paragraph I.A. 3.a. above. GERENDE's comprehensive
area knowledge and. personal operational capabilities enable him to make a.
_ valuable contribution in such operations as. AMROD and. also enable him to procure
» the most desireable safe sites in support of the Station's operations... Thé
: project's assets, particularly GERENDE and LIEMPTY-10, presently provide 20
. post office box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other Stations. ©
‘Although it is planned to reduce this number considerably during the next year, ;
‘(since other Station assets now can provide.a number of live accommodation .
; addresses) ,. a number of post office boxes will ‘be retained for use in future.
operations. Lo .

h. The ‘quality and quantity of cparational information produced by the
photographic bases and other activities under GERENDE's control and supervision
‘is considered by the Station worthwhile and in some cases unique. It is con-
cluded, therefore,, that this segment of the LIEMPTY Project should be continued.

Cc. Relationship to the Rel. ated Mission Directive

 

. -As noted in the examples given above, ‘Project LIEMPTY has provided valuable
‘support to many Station operations and thereby has been e.contributing factor to
. ‘the fulfillment of the Related Mission objectives. of.the Station. The project
-has not produced any positive. intélligence nor is it intended to do so.. The -
o project's sole purpose is to provide a uechanism for the development: of opera~
tional information. ie ;

“IL. . CHANGES ~

 

 
 
  

   

i EMPTY: “Project: was phe: ‘peplaccient “OF aa

i . by SCANTELING as cutout with the LIMITED basehouse. This was arranged .

so as to provide GERENDE with more time for rapid processing of the LIEMPTY

phototake. It also makes for better vagport with the basehouse ‘keeper: ‘(LIEMPT )
since. SCANTLING is closer. in age to: Aim than . 8 GERENDE. La

 

Louise J . MACRINO (ps) suf efered & a “geeurrence of - the heart. condition which
nearly caused cher. death approximately eignt years ago. Complete rest has been.

 
13-00000

 

TIT.

Iv.

Vee

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

tae ie pence ee eee nee eer

he

ordered by her doctors and an operation

 

 

may be necessary in early 1964,

It is therefore unlikely that she will be able to work during the coming

project year. . Station doesnot plan to,
clearance at this time, but has not ine

request. cancellation of her operational
uded salary payments to her in the

estimated costs of the Project for ‘the Ce year.

The unusual: salary increase reflect
(below) sectionfor the coming year is

: The. comments made: concerning the p
Renewal of 1960 (HMMA 15979) remain vali
type of services provided by the assets

ed for LIEMPTY-19 in the "Project Costs”

ape to this agent's new duties of LIFEAT
processing in addition to her old auties
' for this use on 2 > January 1965. ee

as translator. Agent's OA was amended

oject's effectiveness in the Project
d. Indeed the Station's need for the
of, this. project are at least as great

. today. as they were when those comments were originally 4 forwarded.

PROBLENS .

There are presently no ‘known’ major
affect either the security or the effec
problem facing the LICALLA portion of t

and stibsequent renewal requests has is f

of three KURIOT personnel earlier this .
this group had knowledge of the TIECALLA

 

problems facing the operation which would
iveness of this operation. The security.
e operation and described in HMMA-15979
resolved by the Cuban Government's release
ear, As was noted Previously, one of :
operation. :

196.

“apes not plan to “expand it during the coming year..

. compartmentation, and security. of: the ee

Both: SCANTLING and GERENDE took =

LOFLUTTER auring the month of October
No security: Problems * were. reveal :

d by this: test. .

FANS

   

The ‘Station considers that ‘the. pro ect is | operating: at its optimum size and .
Efforts will be continued to
vefine and better utilize the existing project organization and to improve.’ the

   

costs -

   

A. ‘Past Project 3 Year - Station records show’ that Project LIEMPTY expendea approx-
imately 8 30,680.00 during FY 1963 (1 December 1962. - 30° June 1963) and has.

. mek Se er.1963) ; Approximately. :
SUS 10,300 ear be expended - : during . the last two months of the ‘project year. .
This. will make a total expenditure: for she project year of about $US 4d, 500 or
sus 1, 300 under. ‘that which - ‘was allotted for this Project.

   

  

 

 

Be Nex Project Year: ~ = Of ‘the total. gus 49, 700 budget ’ ‘Ltemizea pelow, epproxi-
mately. 308 3, 290 wil: be expended in‘ FY 196 and. the, remainder sus 39,10 in ;

 
13-00000

 

 

 

SECRET

 

LIEMPTY _

“Mexico city
6 BRATION

 

  
    

  

IRCOS, “Case e Officer . vi. Wilierad GS CURTIS, Chief of Station -

we “GN

ucts | fe arré Le Msn dB 587 gageT

     

Yegnay Piya ry be LEM aM

 
 

foot]

 

(cement cya nes Ae eee y

     
  

 
  

   
 
 

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET / wane

PROCESSING ACTION

  
   

 

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

    

MARKED FOR INDEXING

   

 

 

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

 
  

 

   
   

 
 

ONLY QUALIFIED DfSK
CAN SUDGE INDEXING

  

 

‘Chief of Station, | Mexico City

  
  
 

MICROFILM

 

 

 

LIEMPTY Froject Renewal
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

  

 

  
    

Action: Renewal of Project

    
 

 

 
 

Forwarded herewith and under separate cover is the Station's review

of Project LIEMPTY for purposes of renewing the project for “the ‘period L .

 
 

December 1963 through 30 November 1964, The amount requested to fund the

 
 

project for this period is $US 19, 700, or approximately the same as was

 
   
    

approved for the past project year.

 
 

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

      

The Fol honins acyion is;

 

 

 

   

ote: If destruction, cite
Attachment: reasons and coordinate : a ; oe

opriate.
As stated ‘apt SPProP .
Herewit th and Under ' Separate Cover

stribution: . ,
Digensparison w/att bo & “a/s/e

 

   
     
   
     

  

   
     

 

 

63 eaey os Feb tLe

| DATE

 
 

CROSS'REFERENCE TO"

 

“DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

_ HM

 

    
 

  
 
 

25° October 1965 o

> +. | HQS FILE NUMBER

= 50-6TK -

   
     

 

    

amiga: and

. “., CLASSIFICATION
tecbaseit cation :

 
  
 

     
13-00000

  

 

 

I. “CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUGITON RELATED THERETO
“AL “Oliver a. ‘SCANTLING Segment (an elgtion to project onjectives +)

“Le : IG éollect “operational: “information pertaining to LIMERICK personnel
and physical facilities." -SCANTLING has continued to: provide worthwhile in-

. formation in support of this oplectives | (See -previous project review forwarded
by HMMA-20052 of 18 October 1962.).° ring the past. year SCANTLING was used to
follow up leads produced by both LIpEAr ‘land LIENVOY in support of this objective.
In particular SCANTLING provided, - 2 in blueprint detail, casing reports on the
homes of two Soviet intelligence officer ‘S who are targets for Station technical
Operations. | : : : aie q oo :

 

. ‘SCANILING. also is used ‘to aid the Station in maintaining eurrent records
of the residences of. Soviet personnel living .in Mexico. This is accomplished by
SCANTLING's followup of LIENVOY leads which indicate Soviet interest” in renting

specific ‘properties. .

 

2. "To collect operational: inforution dentaining - to other targets of op-
portunity, foreign official: installations and personnel of intelligence interest
‘operating in Mexico." SCANTLING has proved, successful in providing information
on other Stetion targets: oo i

a. SCANTLING obtainea information on (@EMLQUELET-2, a suspect Soviet
support agent which was the basis of. further Station operations
against this target. - .!

. . yO .
be . SCANTLING provided a casing of the former Yugoslav Commercial
- Office against. which the Station had planned a technical operation.
‘However, this site was evacuated by’ the target mission before
plans were completed for. ‘this attempt. . .

Ce SCANTLING has conduetea detailed investigations in various cases
mo ‘Involving possible agents or contacts of hostile intelligence ser-_
vices. These cases were of prime concern to Station Mexico but
.., frequently. were undertaken fat the request, of Headquarters or other
Stations. Sue Rs Ls :
3. “To provide support to other Station operations as may be requested by
; the .Station- officers’ concerned ‘DE activities -in this.area —__
‘were concerned “primarily” “qrith recrit nts, ‘debriefings’ and surveillances. During”
the reporting period, however, the weight of SCANTLING's support to otherStation
opérations have taken other forms... - Examples from ‘this area of activity, include
the most fruitful : efforts - “on SCANTLING! ¢ Parts . ne :

   
  

 

 

 
13-00000

   

   

ae Support of the sensitive AMROD operation, in which Raymond H.
_ ' GERENDE also played a vital role, was of singular importance to ,
the success of the operation. SCANTLING's many fields of op-
.. erational experience were drawn on fully and he thereby provided
_ a unique contribution. to the operation. Without’the assistance
of SCANILING and GERENDE with their unique qualifications » this
: : operation would have: been Gifficult : in the extreme if indeed. at

all possible. ee ; o

In su ort of the Station! 5 ‘haréissment campaign against’
‘4 7 launched’ at the request of Headquarters, ~
ay again provided the means for carrying out a large portion

- of the action taken, SCANILING's efforts ranged from the mailing
of "poisoned" candy to the! target to the placing of threatening
phone calls. “SCANTLING also made calls to various Mexican news~

_papers and mailed “montage” pletures of; and a Soviet in-
telligence officer to Gua @ newspapers in the campaign to
discredit and discourage in the!
campaign.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . u - .
ce SCANTLING is used as the alternate contactin a sensitive LAURICLE
“project... This is for the purpose of minimizing the danger of the
action agent in this project. being recognized as being in contact
with an obvious’ PBPRIME citizen. SCANTLING's. contribution to this
. operation has been noteworthy 'p both from the ‘standpoint, of security
and agent “handling. : .

 

ae. SCANELING ‘continued to conduct mumerous ‘pretext and neighborhood
investigations... As in the: ‘past many of these investigations were
in velation to: highly. sensitive cases. ole so

 

oa, Although SCANTLING ' s LIEMPTY project objectives ean “not be compl etely
fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING continues to make valuable
contributions to the objectives of the project and to other Station activities.
SCANTLING's production, measured against monetary expenditure, case officer time
and other intangibles’ factors, unquestionably justifies his continuing as.an oo
integral ‘part of Project LIEMPTY.”. eet \ one .

| a :

B. Raymond’ H. GERENDE Segment (in relation to Progect objecbives) :

    
   

“£0 LIMERICK ‘personnel:
and physical facilities through use of photographic basehouses." Three photo-
graphic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute to these objectives.
Although SCANTLING nowacts.as cutout with the LIMITED base; GERENDE continues

to be responsible for the processing of all photo take from the LIEMPTY operation
including take from LIMITED. |. To. avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the
description of the functions of these’ three bases and» how. they contribute to .the
above objective. This was fully described in the 1960 Request for Project: Reneival
(HMMA-15979) . Da og ee fe

    

 

 
