Siete eon npn acme mame

   

 

ftoetordetom]

    

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 3

Tuesday - 21 March 1978 Awea

ll. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Received a call from a former
gency staff officer to establish bona fides of House Select Committee on
Assassinations researcher Dan Hardway who would call the former Agency

officer to schedule an interview.

12, ( Secret - RSG). LIAISON. Took a call from Mickey

Goldsmith, on the staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations,

V who requested that we make available_te a former Agency employee a list
of SE case officers assigned t from 1960-1964. The former
Agency employee was employed at during that time and is now
claiming that Lee Harvey Oswald was al sset. This request was denied
because the information was classified and‘€ould not be released to the former
Agency employee. Goldsmith indicated he would not press the issue,

  
  

 

/ 13, (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Bob Genzman, House Select

: Committee on Assassinations staff, called to reschedule the briefing of DDO
name trace system to 7 April at 9:00 a.m. Gary Cornwell, of the Committee
staff, will also observe,

14, ‘(Unclassified - ME) FOIA/LIAISON Called Representative Charles
Whalen, Jr.'s (R., Ohio) office, and spoke with Ms, Randy Hentz about
the Congressman's letter of 14 March on behalf of Mr. Gene W. King
and his claim that the Agency had advised him that CIA had no files
on the Veterans Coalition, of which he is National Director, or on
himself, I explained to Ms. Hentz that I had checked with the appropriate
office concerned with such requests and there is no record of a request
from either Mr. King or the Veterans Coalition, She asked me to send
her the name and address of the individual to whom Mr. King could write
and I passed same to her.

15, (Secret - PLC) LIAISON Together with Gary Chase, I met with

Don Sanders, Special Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Ethics, and discussed
in general the support the Agency will provide to the Committee in their
investigation to determine if the leaks (Panama and the Oil study case) resulted
from a source within the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Sanders
made clear that in his capacity as Special Counsel, he is completely separate
from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence though he also holds a staff
position on the Subcommittee on Investigations of the Select Committee on
Intelligence, Any information provided by CIA concerning the investigation
should be sent directly to him, He understands that procedures will have to be
worked out as we go along and he was agreeable to a Memorandum of Understand-
ing formalizing the arrangements. I also delivered the damage assessments by

an on the leak of the oil s i cordance with Sanders! request.
CIA and NSA th t nad nae Be3°E Fj q

 

3ipay
