TOP Sha?

e. Note (8/25, meeting) reference to Barnes' assurances to
Macy of Budget that it would be “out of question" to mount an
invasion without participation of large numbers of disaffected
individuals within the country (Cuba).

f. The words "Special Discussion" e.g., 10/6 meeting, eld
indicate in my notes discussions of sensitive AF activities (PIC).
They are described at length in the minutes, but I took no notes on
this.

g- Note (11/3 meeting ) State's suggesting that the three
top Cubans be assassinated.

h. Note CIA was conducting a re-evaluation of the entire
situation (which presumably led to the decision to go ahead with a
large brigade): Should we not ask Bissell whether any memoranda of
this re-evaluation are in existence?

i. There is reference to Cuba being on NSC agenda for early
November 1960. Should we inquire what was said at such NSC meeting?

j- Note Barnes' preposterous statement (12/5) that 600
troops (in invasion) would be just as useful as 3000.

k. It is clear that the pressures to get the Cuban trainees
out of Guatemala were considered by the Special Group to be real and
urgent.

. Thal CCL’
3. Will IG and GD and RBS please make" additional suggestions, for
inclusion in draft report?

 

a doy My

 
 

Tw? SEGHET

1 September 1961
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Consideration of the Cuban Matter by the $12
Special Group

1. Attached are my detailed notes made while reading the
minutes of the Special Group yesterday. The 12 pp. paper that
WH/4 submitted to the Taylor Cémmittee, with two appendices, is
also attached in order to facilitate study of the matter. That
paper purported to quote the minutes only with reference to the
strike force concept. (It should be replaced in the two wa/ 4
bound volumes of papers furnished the Taylor Committee, at ‘
"Part FF.")

2. I call attention to the following new matters, which
Suggests a number of points that should be reflected in my draft gencvedk
report of 31 August 1961:

a. Parrott was the Assistant to Dp/P - for Executive
Branch Matters (DD/P/EBM). He not only acted as secretary of
Special Group, and briefed the DCI beforehand, but took an active
role in the discussions, at least from time to time, i.e., at
meetings of 8/11, 9/1, 9/8 and 11/16. This introduces still
another non-operator echelon in the decision-making, between DCI
and Chief, WH/k.

. Db. These minutes show the extremely detailed reporting
by CIA to the Special Group and requests for approval of individual
operations, i.e., individual air drops.

c. Note that the detailed reporting to the Special Group
was almost always done by Bissell or Barnes, not by the DCI.

d. Note Adm. Burke's statement that Navy ideas were to
have 50,000 U.S. military for intervention in Cuba. (3/14/60 meeting)

Query: was this statement in the back of the minds of CIA operators iy) Ip ~
in going ahead, i.e.*the Cuban Brigade was only a spearhead

for (possible) follow-up by U.S. forces? Note in late meetings pee
considerable additional talk of overt intervention. BL. ee
a

456 cecaer
