104-10054-10109

 

 

      

   
 

 

 

 

 

Tasidle Washington ae Aten ,
CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission oe
“By ROBERT 5. ALLEN ~ ciats who actively oppose on has yet fo, be used dismissal of such persons “Yiquta or compressed for security reasons re ; are

. And PAUL scoTr | “Soviet policies, . against anyetieh West from public office, at oth. form. The gas is {atal port that CIA Director
° . Titled "Soviet Strategie ern officl Sindteds of .er times even having’ within’ seconds dnd an John McCone made no
WASILNGTON, Oct. 20, Executive Action,” the KGB agen pertly. op- {hem ‘eliminated’: physi ; autopsy would not reveal mention of this explosive ee
‘=The Central Intelli- suppressed CIA docu eraling outSkiGot Russia cally. oe _its use. Non-traceab]e document in his secret , \
gence Agency withheld ment wentintothe shock have been suppiisd with “Such activities are * poisons have been reporf- testimony before the : :
vital intelligence infor. ing details of how agents this Be ck gt:syq, gun,“ known to be undertaken ed which do not take ef. Warren Commission.
miution from the Warren of KGB, the Sovict sceret await Onlyworders against other types of -fect until several hours While McCone furnish-

  
   
  
 
  
 

 

Conmission during its ine police, are trained to do from Moscow it.- persons in the West, not-. after being administered, ed the commission with .
‘ vestigation of the assas- away with Western Iead- °The Murder ‘jj ms ably defectors from the thus allowing an assassin hi , oat ’
" sination of President ers, including officials in. HIGHLIGHTS&sofethe U.S.S.R. and from other to-be far from the scene {he CIA’s secret surveil- dled :
Kennedy. : . the U.S., and to make- suppressed int ce countries of the Sovict when his victim dies. lance -Teports on Lee WW .
: Despite the commis. their deaths appear due ‘estimate, which loc, . . “A knowledgeable Uarvey swald’s cight
. sion’s written request for to natural causes. in a security areZ 3yi “One recently reported source has described a ays in Mexico City be- Thar
+ alt documents that might One of the KGB’s new-. the- tightly-guard . assassination technique is pneumatically operate d* fore the assassination, ine cr) 5
shed light on the assas- ly devised assassination are as follows: 2, to electrocute an individ- poison ice ‘atomizer’ cluding details of Os- ae :
sination, CIA authorities wapons “Is ‘a: pnumati- “It hag been re "ual by luring him to which leaves no wound Wald’s contact wilh the§ ¢ oo
failed to turn over a na- cally. operated polsom' icey,that. the KGB endeavors . use a telephone, connect- or other evidence of the head KGB agent in the ) .
tional intelligence esti ‘atomizer,’.. which :leaves';to reii6yethe,. thre: ed to a high-voltage wire, .cause of death.” Sovict embassy there,f ; »
mate warning that it is .no wound or: other -evi-2 Soviet: interests’ posed: uring a thunderstorm, “Congressional investi. {the CIA chief gave no / :
Kremlin policy to remove certain-membets of ot involves the gators, who have asked hint of the Kremlin's as- : Be,

   
  

     
  
  
 
    
   
 

an

 

from public office by as- ern governhients; so e of a pistol which that the name of their .Sassination policy.
sassinalion Western offi- jects a poison ‘gas ‘in ‘committee be withheld (CONTINUED ON 8-3)

 

_-) guppressed evidonee Unk-} methods. 7
. ; ; “ sity eagle pth jono OF W3: Instéad:’ Mat)
. ab who a bout the rope

- cording to security. fhlés, Acarned ‘about teers sport

        
  

    
  

  
  

 
