13-00000.

 

 

ce

“Fedor alokcewne’ & SRANEN, who was a Soviet atslomay int.
“ MOHSENSCHILD wae Bases siieé. Be * 3 ee cnginass whe

‘Sovies 5 Stata § Sacuziin Sarries nsobably 5 since the mid-i356's, - ie

. nation abouk George Se MOHRENSCHILDT.-

JRaAT2O. ; a; cs
Dee fefeed | thartrcon 8 se, - ae

   

- WARNING NOTICE.:.
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND.
-. METHODS INVOLVED

  
       
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
   

Be aiatie ag a potica Sficay and to night daya imprisomment oF =

Tne of 13a frames op charges of drimkeosneas ond use of a inige |
name. Senteste was suspended gendisg compleios ote & thse De
year probationary gesiod. . hte oe

é The cnganes Bia aaa 3iia, Gaorge De .MORRENSOLDT
has ubed variations of his basis nasiu.. japlading such varianiana |
dersy de MOHRENSCHILDOE; Jarsy you MOBRENSCHLLDT; Georgs
von MOSER EDEL: and George Sergias da MOBRESS CRG
Ta Mite vonaned he alup seeme to have yarled his Josmar ethnic
" oxighs izom Buusian, to Polish, Swadish, Dasish, ond Gouman,
| Thave appaay te be tws versions of hls spthests malian samnas :

  

  

“On i nowele 19d tha #2 Syeniahed te this peasy
a 28 F Febwaasy 1364. ‘The ragort p provides detest

  
  
  
  

Wasblagton, D. 6, in 1935. In thak voport Yurt (Gaerze) De.

 

 

served in Cuba to 1943; after World Wis I he alse aeyved jethe °
U.S. , Himeary and Finland. > According fo our renorde, the inw.
formation pbpout GAILAMNIN and his asacelation with be Sovint |
| State Soewelty Saxvice has xiao been knew te she ¥

Cr You: may alse wish bss ranlee inguisios ‘ak the Oia of
Noval Intelligences the Assistent Chief of Stall, Inteiganégs, *
Department of the Army; the Reparimedt of States and the Civst
Sesvies Commission bacauss thase aopaxtaents alan have: fafors” :

 

Distribotion: :
Orig. & 2H “Addresses
-2-DDP .
1 - C/CYUREA
1-C/cr/sig
1- C/wH/3

L~ CHR&A/Bartinan

   

      
    
  
 
   
    
 
    
 

x

 

  
    

 

Acting Chief, Contact Division - (Direct):
ATTN oo: Suppert :
Pallas Resident Agency

   

CROP LMED
APR. 1969

poc. MICRO. SER. |

    
    

new case 45259

    
    
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
 

REF Headquarters Hens 20 Ape 6H .
: Details om J. Welter Moone 4 = “contest atth George a
DeMe hren ssh itt: Free ae : —

of _ a L have » Knowa-Caarge ds Mobvensehilae and, his wife | since 19576
. Ny latest actual contact with thaw vas in the fall of 1981, although I
received a Christmas card from thea during Christmas of 3963. The card

railed free Port-au-Prince and @ copy oF uy acknow}ed eaent is attached. . soe! 2 a
a : . | py Demeanville “Texas eq OS ace~ busihcesman whe.
we 2. ‘After our ate resident’a assassination, either on the 230 we ty

» 3 2th of Royenher 1953, I rereived a telephones call treafDe.) Paul: ;
i wichertz, Direc Director of tha Sccanmy Hohil Research Laboratory at Dincavyilie 7

_ Teraas. Dr. . Relehertz advised that members of his staff had attemied Sone :
_ kind of social or discassion greup in January 1963 ar-which Lee Harvey ;

. Oswaid vas prepawte Ho mention vas made at this tine ef George de Nokren -

“pehildt, £ told Dr. Raichertz he should report this information to the . *

- local of Fics of the FBE and he replied thet he knew no ona in the Ballas 7:
office of the FRE and asked if I would pasa the infermation-aleng for hin.

I called tha FBI and. they said they weld semi somebody out to talk to. .
Br, Reichertz. I nade. no effort to. follow op on the matter with. Paw. .
Reichert= sifce I felt it was none of py business but duriog a visit %

with Marya: antiDaggan= Gar I Librarian st Sccony Hobil Research Lab and a.

wood corrtac + lor nine for nany years, sha advised that sha had heard that”

- det Mobmenachd la had befrienied Gawald after bis arrival in Dalla? and -

‘hud introduced hin to a study greup.on the USSR. Sit- ESA eac = Mecetan: ae
wncanyi tie. KOS. RaKY ° . eet
A Den compte TS Ac set with | de Nohrensehlidt - Bs the peaks OF
oe 2 scuree Load from headquarters, dated 22 Noy 57, advising that. Gecrge . ae
ds Hohreaschitdt had recently returned to Dallas after spending apprexi= ae
mately a year in Yugoslavia on a job for the ICA. I called cn de Hohrep~ 9... |
sehildt in early Decesber 1957 and subaitted a naue check, dated 6 Dee 57.
At that tine, do NohrenaShildt eave ise a copy of standardeparsonal history °.
forn. S75. me gives considerable biegraphic data, which x an enclosinge .

hee es SSiWALD €z61- axa2es) ae ae os
Dec. cewhaing secouel- hauel lend a fg Dew Pel 55 as
enol Moryann DESGAN | beth of eae Mobi i an SP, f

\ Sas eo We My teens arr Cao ne

        
 

 

 

 

    

   
umatil the Aviom of 1963. He hing not ses tham singe that time, .

hotise: a parted fohewing tha apsaarinatlon.

. MOSAENS CRIT waa prosgat at the mocking 1 med bad mae

.. Be MOMBEMICHILDTS and the OSv7ALDs was poled for The

and yolustrerad Infegmation abent their relatlonuhio with the |
. OSWALD, At nbowk the saxme Lime the detalle of thelr a20—

~~ Yate in 1957 amd easly 1953, his background wap Investigated. - |. +-

U.S,5.R, The inventigation was axtented to Baigies where ©

Gazgroctloaszal at Antwerp to elght days in prison on chargaz of

 

     

  

ad

WA ENG NOTICE
SENSHAVE SOURCES AND ..
beTnors INVORYED

  
     
    
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
  

informal, oxcaclonal contact with the De MoHRENSCRD Te

although ha received o Christmas card from thems cuving the : : o

3. On the 23rd 5 or 245i ot November } 1953, softer tha ©
assatoination, our eapreseniative in Dalian recelved a tele |
phone cell irom oom of hig esutacts who teld hiro that several -:
insmibers of bia gives had attended a-aecial or a diseyssion
grow in Jamary 2953 ant tha} Las Harvey OSV ALD had alse |
dawn thers. . Oar Pepresemiakve inamnadtately Brraaged for he
ie > ceplost he ecseullve. It was lales asesyhilnsd from. -
& PR, ani {rote oak Of ony Owe nowrens, That Geprge De

aneed OSTALD is she Srp.

    

é. As ota Newtquastere the apsostation batupen. tho
Sirs? these in Dageseeer 1993 when twas sepoxtind frac Balt.
that the De MOMRAENSCHILD Ts had eopaarad at the Embassy:

elation begun to appear & Feperio mete by sther U.S, Govern=
magat byswtlay wagaget ioe invworigating the napassination,:

5, _Dvelag the gontast with Georges De Younemsesmot

inguirias ¢ prodamed & considarable genom of information about...
him ana Die nethyHies, Ineluding nllogatlons that ducing ¥ Works |
Rar IH be bad engaged is sapionage activities on dehel! of tha:

Masta; that he wap a chember of the Communist Pasty; and that
after tha war he waa pympathaiic toward Commuaiszn ani this:

George De MOHRENSCHILDT clabsad te have Uyed from 1930
antl 1925. Mis adezativsal background had his work as 27!

jJossmalist were conficmed these. One terord of arrsat goras
to light; on 4 Nesersber 1932 he wan sentenced by the Tribunal :

met Bm

SEGRET

 

 
13-00000: —

SUBILOT

; 4966 Fegrenting any Information on Ganrge aad Jasons De 2
. MOHREMSCHILDT that is gvalladle ly CRA Hes. Oar: xoviguy

| sevlew aloo produce refereness to Information bathe yeeords

. Be MOMRENSCHILDT bad been considered for employment in
19462. bt was not hised ba¢cauas he waa alleged to bea Bazk
” geplenaga agent, No information duveloped by CIA for its |

_ bad established any Lak baiween thé Da 2% MOHRENSCRILDT s

-sneetings tho CLA representative obtained forsiga intelligence
| whith was aronpily disseminated to othar fodaral sgvacios h ine Soe

 

  
   
  

    

Dye LAL74 ay

“WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
BAETHODS ate e

  
 

Seen
(BF

Oak ek Mice:

a CIA 7 ite on” De Mehrensehil a
ane sent Te Warren Commission vee
SEEDS ORANDUR FOR : Mr. J Lea Rankin“

-Ganeral Counsel

Presidaal’s Coeaxais ahem orn tbe :
Asenasination of Preakiess Resninly

    
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 

MICRO FHM
APR? 1869

MICRO. ser.

= |

  
     

BOS. iv

George ana a De 2 MORRENSCHEDT
2. Reference ia made to your mawsnorandana at a March.

shows that the fla» contain reports reselyed Zrom ether U5. |
Gavarmosn$ agoncipa, primarily the FBI, as well ae some ine
fozmatsion developad by this Agency in 1957 and 1934.. Taos

of the Coordinates of Information and the Oidce of Strateyi« ©
Services. According tothe regerds of thoas agensies, Georg:

predeeesanrs) belors the assazsination of Praaldent 3 Repnety ,
and Lee Harvey OSWALD oz Big farm sally.

2. CIA's initial Intorens { in George: Be MOHRENSCHILDT.
cevelopind avs result of his sojours in Tugeslovia in}957 on
behalf of the International Cooperstion Agnnep (CA). "In thak .
commestion CIA dbeadquartorye sent a rovbine advisesy to. its ”

allay rapresentative phe called on the De MORRIS CHIL
in the early part of Desamber 1957. In the courze of ‘several

to oeparaia 2 Reports’ The Dallas repr osentathrs coatinuad |

    
    

KO
Exelytad trom sotoaalis
drwugeadiog Bad

gociassiticatind

oN

 
13-00000,

 

ECRET |

 
   
   
 
  
   
  
 

~ and poorly connected, and some of his associations in the’ past have —
raised serious questions. Certainly his relationship with the
Oswalds has caused him considerable trouble and may nave caused this |
Agency and the FRI to spend more time. and energy on him in | the past
than was necessary. . ; : 7 _

10. Both ‘the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their.
interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt’s: activities by the mid-to-late -
1960's. We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could:
either be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa- ;

tives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the ‘assassination |
of President Kennedy. . We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond -_
Mr. Moore's reports attached at F. What we can say’is that we have. |.
found no indication that either CIA or.the FBI has taken any active oe
interest in Mr. de Nohrenschildt in recent years. ;

 

 

Attachments:
A thru’F a/s-

334 “tad 27
: Fa
iewoaee” ~ 3- +s ~

SECRET

  

  
13-00000:

   

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY *
: WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 -.

Ee Brezat ve Registry a :

28 September 1976

  
    
 
      
        
    
   
 
   

Mr. G. de Nohrensehi1dt
2737 Kings Road -
Apartment 142°

Dallas. Texas. 75219

_ Dear George: elt oe

 

Please forgive the delay 4 in my ) reply to your - Septenber 5th lette
_ It took time to explore: thoroughly the matters you raised.

“Let me ‘say first that I know it must have been ‘difficult for you

to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter. I believe I
‘can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic. 4

- death a few years ago and the current poor state of -your wife’ s health.
_ I was, extremely sorry to hear of these circumstances.” me

 

- ‘In your ‘situation, I can. ‘well imagine ‘how the attentions you
described in your letter affect both you and your wife.. However, my
staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your mae

_ activities on the part of Federal authorities in recent years. ~The.
flurry of interest that attended your testimony, before the Warren:
Commission has Tong since subsided. I can only speculate that you

_ may have become ‘ "newsworthy" again in view of the renewed interest.
in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may, be. attracting ¢ the atten-
tion of people in the media. : ; / ; ; tee.

: I hope this letter has been of some: comfort to you, ‘George,
although I realize I-am unable to answer your question completely.
Thank you for your good wishes on my new job. As you can imagine,
I'm finding it interesting and chalTenging. . ,

Very tray yours.

: Nara te
'. Director oa

 

 
13-00000., . : ne

taal

Ca ee a cow ENTIAL, - “os SECRET

   

 

(7) -UNGLASSIFIED~

    

SUBJECT: (Optionol}

 

EXTENSION

. John H. Waller — :
Inspector General 6565
2 E 24 Hqs. Bidg. R-1252

TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond a
building} : OFFICER'S

DI
ROOM: 7° E 12

7 . This is the response to-the -.
letter from de Mohrenschildt = =.

 

fom 610 “sinene’ Oo SECRET [[] CONFIDENTIAL. [1]: a (1) UNCLASSIFIED

 

 
 

 

 

(| Mr. De Mohrerischildt was written without
| knowledge.af the flavor of your personal

 

. . the. ‘FBI appear to have been interested “ 7
“., in Me De renschildt for a number of.

 

 

 

  
 
   

  
 

ay]

CEN VGY |
The attached sugested draft to ..

  
  
    
 
        
 
     
 
   
   
 
    
   
     

relationshsp with him. The tone may not
be appropriate, but the message boils .
down to thé fact that neither CIA nor

 

ee
years. as

This drat » was coordinated with 96c
| on 2 Sep. 7% -o

 

~ Sohn wal Te er.

   

“FORM Ho . EPLACES . . .
. PFEB 5S 24 wien MAY BE USED. on bad

 
13-00000 « DO re ee

     
    
 
 
   
    
  
  

SECRET |. Be Pree.

 

MEMORANDUM: FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
“: John H. Waller _ _——

 

FROM EZ
: _ ‘Inspector Genera]
SUBJECT Hr, George de Mohrensciitldt —

“REFERENCE : Mre de Mohrenschildt's letter to you,”
oo dated, 5 September | 1976 | oe

 

Action Required:

1. None. “This ‘memorandum is for your “information. - - We have ‘also
attached at A a suggested | draft. reply | to. Mr. de Mohrensch#1d¢? s. letter.

     
   

; Action Taken:

 

“2. We have reviewed poo and 16 files on 1 Mr. ‘de Mohrenschildt. Ino
addition, at our request, the CI Staff has run Agency” traces on him and we
has been in touch with’ the FBI as well. ; we

 

~ Findings:

3. There. is voluminous material on Mr. de Mohrenschildt in CIA.
files, most of it dating from the post~Kenneédy. assassination period °:
when he testified before the Warren. Commission on his acquaintance’ ~ 9° 3”

. with Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald. (A copy | of the de * Nohrenschildés’ oo
. testimony is attached at B.) . . me

 

  

4. The bulk ‘of the material.in our: files consists: of > FBI feports, oe
the most recent of which is dated 1967. The FBI has informed CIA that .
it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that dates our’ files: -
contain all of its previous material on ‘him, ce

   
 

oo a Type |
SECRET CL BY 055636 ©

  
13-00000.

SECRET

5. -Mr. Helms’ 3 dune 1964 memorandum for the Warren Commission on

the de Mohrenschiidts is attached at C. It describes the Agency's
interest in obtaining reports ‘from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a
result of his sojourn in Yugoslavia that year. Contact Division (now
Domestic Coliection Division — DCB) had its resident agent in Dallas,
Mr. J. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschiidt at that time. The.

- history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr.. de Mohrenschildt from 1957. -
to 1961 is also attached at C. As a routine matter, Mr.: Moore requested |.
traces on Mr.-de Mohrenschildt. The trace results (attached-at D) con-.
tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive :
contact with the de Mohrenschildts. (An 0S summary on Mr. de Mohrenschildt.
prepared in response to the current request is also attached at OD. )

  
   
  
    

: 6. Our files: ‘show that a mat]: cover was: ‘placed on ‘letters ‘addressed
to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to
1966. - (This was probably not uncovered-at the time of the external in- |

_ vestigations.) | This included opening and photographing the contents of
some letters by the CEA Station; there. . The results of this operation
were shared with the FBI. , aos, ne

 

: Ts Mr: de. MohrenschiTdt came to the attention of this ‘office during
the Rockefeller’ Commission investigations. : We were asked to respond to a Se
. memorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch ‘entitled "CIA .
Activities and the Warren Commission Investigation." Mr. Hoch called for,
an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment. affiliation and
asked what Mr. Moore knew about. Oswald and what he may have told Mr. de :
Mohrenschildt about him. Our reply. to the Rockefeller Commission, is.
- ‘attached at E.. . ; con

  

8. The most. recent information We. have ‘on Mr. de. Niohrenschildt comes .
from Mr.-J. Walton Moore who was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers
connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell
Publishing Company. Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and
Mr. de Mohrenschildt.° Mir. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached
at F. tt i ; a . me oo

 

Conclusions:

9. Mr. de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and °°"
colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman. He ‘is both well

 

ee ~2-

SECRET

 

 
