(pd

was imprisoned in Cuba (following the Bay of Pigs invasion). ARTIME
demoted La Saga. La Saga described by Hecksher as one of most
intelligent men he had ever met. It was La Saga’s firm position that
while President Kennedy was in power it would be impossible to defeat
CASTRO.

c. Memo by Hecksher re AMNORLD Meeting in Baltimore
"30 Nov to 1 Dec 63, Subject: Kidnapping of Cuban
Dignitaries Abroad

AMJAVA-4 ( ) mentioned that some
consideration was being given to plans involving the abduction
of Carlos Lechuga Hevia, Cuban Belegate to the U.N. , as an act of
reprisal or of taking hostages. Such plan, he iunderstood was ..__,
also being hatched by the Somozas in order to obtain the release
of Picado /“Gen. SOMOZA's pilot, in Cuban prison.7. We told AMJAVA-4
that we could not approve any act of violence directed against a Cuban
diplomat connected with the U.N.

d. Memo by Carl E. Jenkins ré AMNORLD Meeting in Baltimore,
9 February 1964, Estimage o Readiness Status
; This deals with AMWORLD operations in 1964 . Page 4,
para 3, as Jenkins saw it, AMWORLD ; .
could continue with what appeared to be generally
sound approach to developing the personnel and physical assets they
will require for effective ops. They can do this and still mount
small, simple, quick in and out ops, such as low risk sabotage,

abduction or assas$ination, release and exfil of prisoners, etc.,
within a period of three months.

e. Memo By Carl E. Jenkins re AMWORLD Meet ing in New York
15-16 February 1 ~_ARTIME Philoso' and Concepts

ARTIME predicated his planning on the assumption that
the overthrow of CASTRO's regime would be preceded by a long and
hard war. ARTIME planned to accomplish his objectives thru
commando teams; infil teams, and guerrillas. Commandos thru
raids, abductions, assassinations, targetted against G-2 informants,
agents, officers, foreign Commmists, to lift the morale of people
inside Cuba.

£. Memo b wre AMWORLD Meeting in Miami
28-29 June 2 ivery of Sensitive Material to
AMWORLD

AMJAVA-4 mentioned as reasonably attributable sources
to cover CIA support (air drop by CIA aircraft to AMWORLD bases),
several including Mafia. Rumors of Mafia support of AMWORLD had
long pervaded the AMNORLD organization. ARTIME claimed to have
been contacted in the past by the Mafia for the sale of arms.
104-10308-10080

SECRET
Job # 66-449 ( Box 18)
File # 19-124-27
Volumes: 6 booklets reviewed

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMNORLD Operation

‘ 1. Description:

In addition to the booklets, the. box contained ‘tapes
and photos. The memos dealt mainly with AMWORLD planning, status
reports and personnel and logistical needs. This was Agency
support to the Revolutionary Recovery Movement headed by Dr.
Manuel ARTIME, a paramilitary organization dedicated to bringing
about the overthrow of the CASTRO Government. Operations against
Cuba were tentatively scheduled for December 1963, but most of

the strikes took place in November 1963. 2 4

in, Oct/Nov 63 felt that correary ert and
role din AMWORLD were Yrepor Y blown to CASTRO
y a Costa Rican Commmist, AGUILUZ. Go the claimed that the

i i inadvertently leaked \by them the zy
‘to the DRE delegate who was in frequent contact
Wi . ;
2. Findings:

a. Memo for the Record by Henry. Hecksher, 10 July 63:
fash. .C. Meeting wit TIME

panicanie eae

 

 

ARTIME related events anteceding the Bay of Pigs
invasion. MANUEL RAY kad just arrived in the U.S. from Cuba.
He enjoyed strong Department of State support.It was his intent
to get the U.S. to withdraw support from the FRD and to obtain
control over the training camps himself. VARONA's and CARILLO's
intention was to see the FRD go down. Hecksher said he masterminded
RAY's defeat and RAY knew it. Kae rhsher ar Al?

b. Memo by Henry D, Hecksher, on AMWORLD Meeting in
Washington, 7 to 10 Nov 1963. Subject; Dr. La Saga

LaSaga was the MRR delegate in the U.S. while ARTIME
- 3 -

They discussed an air drop attributable to an AMWORLD training
exercise. ARTIME would tell Gen. SOMOZA that he intended to
make certain practice airdrops. The drop would be at night and
made from a two-engine CIA aircraft. ''For variety, certain air
deliveries could be made attributable to Venezuela, the Dominican
Republic, or the Mafia. "

g. Memo by Carl E. Jenkins re AMWORLD Meeting in New

York, ie Dec 1964: Report on AMJAVA-4 Visit to Europe

AMJAVA-4 said that Rolando CUBELA Secada was the rep.
of the internal group with whom ARTIME was expected to meet.
The dissident group consists of a number of officers, one group from
the DR headed by CUBELA, another group from the 26th of July Movement
headed by Cdte. Efigenio AMEIJEIRAS, Vice Minister of Armed Forces.
Maj. Guillermo GARCIA, commander of the Cuban Western Army, was
recognized as the leader of a regular ammy group who would not participate
in the plotting but would come in with his group after the
elimination of Fidel CASERO. AMJAVA-4 and Nilo Messer, AMNORLD rep.
in Spain were convinced that CUBELA was not entirely moved by
ideological motivation. CUBELA was due to arrive in Madrid between
the 10th and 15th of December.

h. Memo by Nestor D. Sanchez re AMNORLD Meeting in

West Palm Beach, Ela. 3 Jan 65

ARTIME was to provide CUBELA with a silencer for the
FAL; if that was possible, ARTIME was to cache in a designated location
a rifle with a scope and silencer plus several bombs concealed
either in a suitcase, a lamp or some other concealment device which
he would be able to carry and place next to Fidel CASTRO. ARTIME
was to be in Cuba one week before the elimination of Fidel, but no
one, including CUBELA,would know ARTIME's location. ARTIME planned
to return to Paris the end of January before CUBELA's return to

Havana. At that time they were to formalize their previous
agreements and ARTIME would give CUBELA what he had requested.

i. Memo by Nestor Sanchez AMWORLD Meeting West Palm
Beach, Fla. 5 Jan 65 re Second Mtg Between ARTIME
and CUBELA in Madrid on 30 Dec 64
hee

 

otherwise
CUBELA said that Sergio del VALLE would join a group
to oppose the Communist Party, on the condition. of the death of

Fidel CASTRO / he was unwilling to participate in any kind of coup.
CUBELA gave ARTIME the details and exact locations where Fidél
spent every Saturday and Sunday and specifically every Sunday at
Varadero. CUBELA said that the Americans wanted him to take a radio
into Cuba which he would not do. The Americans also wanted him to
organize a coup, or organize a group of officers, battalions and
regiments in order to carry out a coup against Fidel. CUBELA said
the only thing he was capable of doing was trying to get rid of
Fidel CASTRO. He was able either to shoot him with a silencer or
place a bomb in some place where Fidel would be. CUBELA wanted to
know the exact location of the cache before he returned to Cuba so
he could memorize the info.
