14-0000

—, i.

2.

3.

N¥. van

 

What. are Station sup rt cai abilities re FRD?
telethone tape/ nike installation

   

ops data for FRD consumption.

de Protection (uni letera gon equads) of. overt FKD menbers va

CASTRO agent! executive actions.

 

ent surveillants: te chock a. ceccurtty, and ‘loyalty
of. overt/covert FRD xembers, :
d. Selection of secure safe sites for housing of FRD (overt & covert.
members) and sslecticn of _gattatactory ‘office facility for overt
‘FRD members,

-.@. Based on Station officers! knowledge of Mexico coy and environs,

* selection of covert neating sites,
What are Mexican Governnent capatilities in: terma of protectien of:
overt FRD nenbers against CASTRO agent executive action operations?

What would be the channel of conruntestions between the Station

_ and the BENDER Group representatives?

Can the ‘Station cormunication facilities {pouch ‘and cable) be used for

secure FED conmnteat ions between the menber 6 in Mexico and those ‘in

: the U.S. and elsevere? -

 

 

4 a Pe, i tor oG Lt
~ C. . .

 
‘oa-t0t7 40023

 

: s¥preciateds

* SECRET gut 969”

NOMORANDUH PORE WI/A/PA. |

- Attention: Miss Tharpe

SUBJECT: Unresolved IMGT
_ Problens re Maxicoe

aL dmen na Grupo" arrives in Hedeo its first. problea Will be to”
set up, && soon. as Possible, a daily newspaper and a press relations offices

‘Be To succesd the Grupo will need the aseistance of Station Mexico in -

‘Leproving the public and political clinata in which ant1—CA3TRO people can
- work effectively. .

30 A tremendous publicity drive should be made on the arrival of "SL
Grupo" in Mexico in order to create the proper image of the FRO in Yaxico

and throughout. Jatin Americas

vb It is hoped ‘that Mrs Hunt and ‘the ‘Station. officers will ba able to |
support and guide AMULLA, who will be producing "El vundo in Eile, which
whl ostensibly be indeveaxcent. but actually wlll be a pro-FRD newspapers
ANULLA wilh aleo be making satirical, humorous radio tapes for broadcasting
over Radio. Swan. .Any help that can be given to: this endeavor will be greatly.

DAVID A. PILLIPS
C/li/kf Prop

Distribution: ; a
Origs & i ~ Addresses . 2 -
Mies. Tharpe ° . . og
ae - iggnpe: ded ON ved

 

 
