34-00000

 

SUGGESTED HANDLING:

(The discussion below was provided by the Office of the
General Counsel) So
Pursuant to statutory authority and Executive Order pro- °
visions, the Agency is clearly prohibited from engaging in any
“Taw enforcement activity. Furthermore, the Director is obliged
to protect from unauthorized disclosure the identities of his
intelligence sources and the methods by which intelligence is
collected. Accordingly, the Agency, as a matter of policy,
will consider such requests on an ad hoc basis and respond when-
ever possible. When, however, a question exists, the Agency

seeks a ruling from the Attorney General,

The request from Dade County was not for the names of

Cuban terrorists, per se, but rather, the names of those Cubans
who may have been associated with Johnny Roselli during the pe-
riod of the Agency's involvement with him in the early nineteen
sixties. Mr. Roselli, as you will recall, met an unnatural and
untimely demise last year at the hands of an unknown assassin.

The request came to the Agency through the Senate Select Commit-.
tee on Intelligence which was particularly interested in

L ye Roselli because of his subpoenaed appearance before. it.. The

bors

——
{ha

Ash

names sought by Dade County were, in fact, either former or cur-
-rent.agents of the Agency. Because of our obligation to protect
sources, the DCI sought the advice and guidance of the Attorney
eneral in a letter dated 14 October 1976. That letter has not
yet been answered. While the Agency has then not respanded to
the Dade County Police request, it. has not, in fact refused the
request, pending Attorney General advice. In addition, it
should be pointed out that the Agency's complete holdings on
the Roselli matter and the assassination attempt on Castro have
been made available to the FBI and the staff members of the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. :

- _e fist? " Should this question or a variation on the theme arise in
ay ge | the future, the following response would seem appropriate:
d dy i
n vee WW to . The CIA promptly makes available to the Depart-
a . x ment of Justice or to. the FBI directly information ~
- C which comes into its possession dealing with the

~> subject of terrorism. The Agency, and I, personally,

would deplore and regret any incident in which former
CIA employees involve themselves in terrorism, drug-
trafficking, or any other illegal act. However,
74-0000

 

this Agency has no legal control or law enforce-
ment rights over former employees, who come within
the police jurisdictions of their state and com-
munity and, when appropriate, under the jurisdic-
tion of federal law enforcement agencies.

 

‘38. The new DCI should announee that the CIA
will no longer make covert use of. American uni-
versities or academie activities; that the CTA
will stop secretly employing professors to "spot"
fereign students for recruitment as CIA agents
(and hence, become traitors to their own countries);
that all CIA sponsored research on campus will be
identified as such (even if the results must on
occasion remain secret); and that academte exchange
programs will not be used for cover purposes.

SUGGESTED HANDLING:

This involves sources and methods and could, in some cir~
cumstances, be handled by "no comment". It would certainly seem
unnecessary and not useful to volunteer any statements concern-
ing CIA's relationship with academe. But, should this kind of
question be asked in a responsible forum where a response 7s. un-
avoidable, the substance of a letter from former Director Bush
to the President of Amherst College might be paraphrased and
drawn upon:

 

"The Agency has several kinds of relation-
ships with scholars and scholarly institutions.
They include negotiated. contracts for scientific
research and development, contracts for social
science research on the many matters that affect
foreign policy, paid and unpaid consultations be-
tween scholars and CIA research analysts, contracts
with individuals who have travelled abroad, and
other similar contracts that help us fulfill our
primary responsibility; i.e.,. to provide the policy
makers of our government with information and as-
sessments of foreign developments.

"We seek the voluntary and witting cooperation
of individuals who can help the foreign policy pro-
cesses of the United States. Those who help are ex-
pressing a freedom of choice. Occasionally such re-
Jationships are confidential at our request, but
more often they are discreet at the scholar's
74-00000

  

ee  exeeer Fay 7

iho.
fa
re yp tenge Pest po VO ’ COEL. Lr AS Cojo sn
. , ”

 
  

      

ee (. ;
. Wigutel fer Cece hae$ YN ep sick

i 2, YAS Linn D. lleihes LE Ley DCS o.

hig KK fee ipeB a” [ eyee 286. eee,

forum or “nee you could reasonably reply to the effect: ; a

CIA has and will continue to cooperate with |
. Justice Department and Congressional investiga- -
* - tions concerning improper activity conducted by.
: any foreign country in the United States.

(The new DCI should announce) that the Agency
will not tolerate operational activity by the
"fatendlies" in the US: and that it wiht " Seeak 066
Liaison and stop all other forms of aid to Socket
services which repress human nights.

. This second part of the first question is more troublesome
to answer since it involves d@mplex issues such as (a) what na-
tional intelligence, national security and diplomatic equities
hang in the balance, (b) how does one define repression of
human rights and (c) what constitutes proof of human rights
abuse as opposed to unsubstantiated allegations, and which
intelligence community activities should be sacrificed if some

_ gesture of disapprobation must be made. If pressed by newsmen,

_ an answer along the following lines might be appropriate:

The United States Government can and should
express itself in faver of human rights in a
‘variety of ways. Conversely, it can in many ways
show disapproval of countries which violate human
rights. Should national interest and policy reasons -
require curtailment of certain foreign liaison acti-
vities conducted by any member of the U.S. Intel-
Tigence Community, I would recommend such action.

 

 

MARKS ' 2. The new DCI should announce that while the
GUEST ICH Agency has no Legitimate Law enforcement role in the .
Ue

US, if will make avatkable to appropriate police
agencies alk intelligence it possesses. on Cuban ter-
nontam, which has been particularly murderous Lately.
(The CLA £ast year turned down a request by the Dade
County (Miami) police for the names of Cubans who had
been trrined by the CIA in the use of explosives. );
and that the CIA will be committed to stamping out
tevrorism and drug-trafficking among its former
employees. — .
74-00000

. 7 . . . Le . , . <a , : DLA hy nen we C ~

3. “They asked. a number of general questions which areas . : AN

follows: : . ; : oo
i, \Who is the Cuban who provided the’ specdboat

: mentioned in the Senate Select Committee Report? ——

 

: i. Who is "B41 " and what i is the name of the anti-
:, Castro group both of which are mentioned on page 89 of
the Report? : . ot

  
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
   
  

Q iii. - Dia Harvey aigtually pay Roselli $2, 700 to defray
; vet Cuban expenses as “mentioned on page 84 of the Report? :

 

oo ‘Why was Roselli i approached instead of Gianeasa
» OF, someone else? : oo: .

 

a v. pia the Agcnoy a do a background ‘check on Roselli
;, or Giancana and, if So, could they have access to it? ? :

 

, vi Why was all contact with Roselli stopped i in 19652 ; - ; a

 

oe vii. Would it be possible for them to talk to ‘the man :
-, ‘or men who served'as Chief of Station i in Miami during: Tes
. 1960 to 1965? : : 7

 

. wii Could. they talk to the current Chiet 0 of Station _
“in Miami? ; . . :

   

: is ‘Would it be » possible for the detectives to talk
: «to James P. O'Connell, a retired senior Office of Security
eo employee?” : ; on, .

 

; Does CIA have any evidence that the Cubdn »InteUigence :
ue Service may have been involved in Roselli's death or that ... -

. Cuban agents were in the Miami area at the time of his !
oe death? . -_

 

 

SECRET/SENS!TIVE
74-0000

 

 

is reportedly now out of prison on parole. Furnishing his

true identity to the Dade County police would jeopardize

his safety, risking publication and a clear connection -
between his cryptonym (which appears in Senate reports) and
his true identity. Not only does the man's incarceration and his
present parole status in Cuba make it unlikely that he was in-
volved in anything of interest to the Dade County police, but

he provides a classic example of an individual whose identity
and association with the Agericy should be protected.

A final and perhaps more subtle problem arisés when, as here,
the Agency is asked if it has any information about "A," "B," and "C." We
may have no information on "A" and unclassified information on "B," but

“"C" may be an agent whose relationship with the Agency should be kept

secret. Ifthe Agency states in its response, we have no information on
"A," we know the following about "B" but cannot comment on "C," we have,
in effect, established a pattern of response which would reveal the very
information we wished to protect, hence, we are sometimes required to
respond with "no comment" to questions about "A," "B" and "C.#

Orhan, GA belo,

Anthony A. Lapham

Attachments
ce: Mr. Massey, OLC
SA/DG/O
D/IG
D/Os
C/LA/DDO
OGC: EC: bm (20 April 1977)
Distribution:
Original - DCI
1- DDCI

1 - ER via Exec. Secy

- INVESTIGATIONS - Roselli, Johnny
1 - EC Signer
1 - Chrono

 
74-00000

about certain Cuban, nationals, some deceased and some still alive.
They are as follows: : . 7

. U. S. citizens: .

tet Cy, DLL OL sassy es we
. ( 2 Reve (

Questions from Dade County Detectives

   
    

1, They would like to know whatever the Agency knows

i. Ramon Don Estevez Dominquez (deceased by -

. shooting). - born 2 May 1936 or 5 Feburary 1936; reportedly ~
a boat manufacturer who was able to go in and. out of Cuba oo
ona regular basis.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ -'. i, Rolando Masterrer Rojas (deceased aby bombing) - -
born 12 January 1918.-. wis

 

. iii. _ Luciano Nieves (deceased by shooting)... C -

‘iv. Jose De La Torriente (deceased by shooting).
fot. ° 7
wv. Jose Quintana - born 3 October 1945; reportedly.

a nephew by marriage to Roselli. . ;

- Wi Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo - born 10 Jamary 1 1945.

; vii. Manola Artimes (the detectives specifically asked
“| whore he is now). | :

    

iW wiih. Am/ LASH - his identity aad present wiievesbents, a

ix. What are the names of the three Cubans mentioned =<

. . in the Roselli testimony? (Two of the three names are in

: the 9 December 1970 memorandum discussed i in n paragraph ;
four of this memorandum. d- .

rR “They asked for whatever information the Agency could provide « on
the following individuals whose citizenship is unknown | but who are Probably

 

OR Fred Black - identified asa lobbyist involved with
Bobby Baker; he reportedly lives in the Watergate Apartments
and is a friend of Mahue, Roselli and Shimon. They wanted to
know if he had any connection with the Castro assassination plots. ,

‘ii. Edward Morgan - a D.C. attorney who has reportedly a
represented Black, Shimon, Roselli and Mahue.

iii. Joseph Shimon - identified in the Senate Select Committee
Report on Alleged Assassination Plots at page 81 as "a friend of .
_ Roselli and Giancana."" They wanted to know if he had any CIA
relationship.
74-0000

 

The Office of General Counsel made two points with regard to
Mr. Marks' comment on the Roselli case. First, in a letter dated 14 October 1976,
the Agency had sought the guidance of the Attorney General to-determine whether
it could legally provide the requested information. Along with_this letter, we
forwarded to the Attorney General, for whatever action he deemed appropriate,
all relevant information from Agency files which we judged could be forwarded
to the Dade County police without jeopardizing sources or methods. Second,
the Office of General Counsel noted that the remaining information which was
requested, relating to former or current agents of the Agency, still required
protection. Your marginal comment asks whether we are not straining the
concept of protection of sources when we protect those who are not now
intelligence sources and whether we are protecting them from prosecution
for terrorist activity today.

After referent memorandum was sent to you, the Attorney General
refined an earlier opinion from former Assistant Attorney General Antonin
Scalia. The Department of Justice now concludes that, to the extent Agency
information either does not involve U.S. persons or falls within one of
seven exceptions to the general prohibition against collection of information
concerning the domestic activities of U.S. persons, such information can be
provided to local police authorities. It is significant, however, that the
Attorney General in his 23 March letter to you (Attachment B) expressly
included the following language:

 

In addition to the facts above, the Office of Legal Counsel
has pointed out that Executive Order 11905 does not require CIA
to respond to Dade County. Indeed, the responsibility of the
Director of Central Intelligence to protect sources and methods
of intelligence, established by statute, 50 U.S.C. §403(g), and
E.O. 11905, Section 3(d) (vii), is authority for him to withhold
such information from local law enforcement officials if he
believes its disclosure would threaten the security of intelli-
gence sources or methods. (Emphasis added)

 

In light of the Attorney General's opinion, those offices holding
the relevant files are now reviewing them to confirm that the information
originally selected for passage to Dade County law enforcement officials
is responsive and complete.

 
 

 

_ | - RETURN TO cx
( @aeeneund Ueo Only.

OGC 77-2530
20 April 1977

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence -

VIA: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
FROM: Anthony A. Lapham
General Counsel
SUBJECT: Additional Comment on Mr. John D. Marks! Second —
: Recommendation in Response to DCI Marginal
Comments
_ REFERENCE: Inspector General Memorandum dated 17 March 1977

entitled "Request for Guidance on Six Recommendations
Made by Mr. John D. Marks at the DCI's Confirmation ~
Hearings" (First three pages, annotated by the DCI,
attached)

1. Action Requested:

None.

2. Background:

, Mr. Marks' second recommendation was that the DCI should make
available to appropriate police agencies all intelligence it possesses on Cuban
terrorism. Mr. Marks more particularly noted that CIA had turned down a
request by the Dade County (Miami) police for the names of Cubans who

had been trained by the CIA in the use of explosives. This is not entirely
accurate. The Dade County Police, pursuant to its investigation of the murder |
of Johnny Roselli, had not requested the names of Cuban terrorists, but rather
the names of Cubans and others who may have been associated with Mr. Roselli
during the period of the Agency's involvement with him in the early 1960's.

The specific questions are included as Attachment A.

 

 

CS
cl apne cL. wi 2)

     
74-00000

 

By way of a more specific response to your marginal comment, we
would submit that the principle of protection of intelligence sources not only
‘ requires that we protect those who are willing to collaborate with the U.S.
Government while they are so engaged, but also that we protect the fact of
such association after their immediate use to the Agency is over. Not only
would it be cynical in the extreme to ask persons, particularly foreign
nationals, to risk their lives and property on our behalf, assuring them
that the relationship would develop in an atmosphere of complete confi-
dentiality and then betray their trust, it would be self-defeating. Only
the firmest assurance that the Agency can and will protect intelligence
sources allows for recruitment of new sources and the continued collaboration
of existing sources. Any perceived weakening of the Agency's commitment
could have serious adverse consequences. :

 

Measured against the need to protect even yesterday's sources
is the fact that, in the instant case, we have no information which bears on
the Roselli murder. Moreover, the Agency is in no way standing between
the police and the Cuban community; the police are free to question whomever.
they wish and to enlist FBI assistance, The Agency is not protecting any
individual against prosecution; indeed, we are unaware that there are as
yet any prosecution targets. .

For your information, I have included a representative sample
of the types of information we wish to protect.

 

-~ Question 2 ii requests all information on Edward Morgan,
a D.C. attorney who has reportedly represented Black, Shimon,
Roselli and Maheu. ;

The Office of Security notes that "most, if not all, of the
information in our files on Morgan would have no pertinence to
the police investigation. The only item of possible significance
is the fact that Morgan was formerly Roselli's lawyer and there~
fore may have been informed by Roselli of his participation at
the behest of the Agency in efforts to assassinate Fidel Castro.
This information is already in the public domain and would add
nothing to the knowledge already held by the Dade County
authorities."

 
74-00000

 

3|P)

 

The Office of Security goes on to say that in the 1951
period, Mr. Morgan was associated with the Agency in a covert
capacity and used as a "cut out" on certain matters of interest to
the Directorate of Operations. Security's reluctance to release
information on Morgan is not due te a desire to hide any material

facts from the Dade County authorities, but rather derives from

their responsibility to protect the identities of individuals who
have cooperated with the Agency to avoid damage to the careers
of such persons. ; :
. 27” oH :
‘-- Question 3 viii asks whether the police can talk to the
current The Directorate of Opera-
tions would respond in the negative in order to protect the

 

_identity and cover of this individual who has been in Miami less

than a year. This is not an effort to hobble the police inves-
tigation because for the past several years the 6-4
has been proscribed-from using contacts within Cuban exile
organizations for purposes of monitoring the activities of the
Cuban exile community. The primarily tar—
getted against those Caribbean areas Where there are no Agency
stations and it has no charter for domestic activities.

~~ Question l iv asks for all Agency information about Jose
De La Torriente (shot to death in his home in Miami on 12 April
1974). Most of our information is of a general character and -
would be known to the police who investigated his death. What
is sensitive and has never been disclosed is that in October 1970,
in respor.se to a request from President Nixon, Director Richard
Helms directed the DDP to establish a covert funding channel to
provide financial support to the Cuban exile group headed by
Torriente. The objective was to provide funds to assist
this group in carrying out raids in Cuba. A total of $250,000
was authorized in FY 1971 and 1972 for this purpose, witha
total of $226,000 actually being expended.

~- Question 1 viii seeks the identity and whereabouts of
AM/LASH. This man was a contact of CIA over a five-year period,
support for his activities being terminated in 1965 for security -
reasons. The intention was to use him to develop a coup against
the Castro regime; the Church Committee describes the Agency's
relationship with the man in the Interim Report on Alleged
Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders. He was arrested
in Cuba in 1966 and served ten years of a 30-year term. He

 

 

oN
