 

ra

 

 

   

CHW 53216

   

Case Nos 186927

periodically in the local news publication, The Gazette and Daily.
There is no question in his opinion, in reading these editorials,
that Reverend CAMPBELL, ha's heen influenced or duped by the present
Communist Regime in Mo ow. He further advised that the news

publication, The © Gazette and Daily, is alleged to be a pro-Soviet

publication and ts one fof the few American publications that are.
read on a daily basis Moscow, In addition, he further advised

  

“that decattse of Reverend CAMPBELL's editorials, he has been the

subject of inquiry in this office by the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation, “He further advised that the principal of this newspaper
has always.been the subject of inquiry in this office by the afore
mentioned government agency, He made it clear, however, that
possibly. because of general apathy, the First Presbyterian Church
is attended by many outstanding and substantial families here in
York whiéh ‘would include SUBJECT and members of her immediate

family. ae ; a

t arr isburg ‘Pennsy 1 van; vania

: A :

‘On 8-June 1960, developed informant, Mr. RICHARD CHILDS,
Supervisor: in the office of the State Liquor Control Board, was
interviewed, Informant reported that SNBJECT was under his direct
supervision during her period of emplowment here in the summer of
1959, . He’ spontaneously advised that SUBJECT in her work performance
was head and.shoulders above anyone he has had employed in his

particular department on a temporary summer basis in at least the

Test ten’ yearse SUBJECT, in his opinion, is an extremely competent

young .wonan:and one who had atremendous capacity for work,. As far

“as he knew, SURJECT'S academic work in high school as well as

Radcliffe College, was not designed toward the business field,: and
SUBJECT therefore was a self-made typist. There is no question in
his mind thet SUBJECT would have an exceptionally high IQ judging

‘from het ‘past performance in this office, It was his opinion. that

she would be an outstanding asset in the government service and
therefore based on the time that SUBJECT was known to him, he would
highly. recommend her without reservation. Lo

On & June 1960, developed informant, Mr, GEORGE. R, ‘STRATHMEYER , .

a student ‘at Plorida Southern College, and present. employee at the
Liquor Control Board, was interviewed, Informant reported that. he was

employed in the same office as SUBJECT during the summer period of 1959,

here at the Liquor Control Board. In addition to knowing her in this
capacity, ‘he also knew her from York, Pennsylvania where they both
attendéd William Penm High School, He stated that SUBJECT was an

jo outstanding student at William Penn High School and in his opinion

~ 5 +
Docld: 32395672 . Page 7

 
 

 

“HW 53216—

  

Case No... 186927

  

in informant's opinion, SUBJECT'S parents are two very fine: people:
about wh ony he could relate nothing of an adverse nature,

Informant understands that SUBJECT is an outstanding, .
intelligent young woman who has compiled outstanding academic records
both at William Penn Senior Nigh School and RadecliffeCollege, He
He based this information on various articles published in local
newspapers concerning SURJECT. He advised that his recommendation
of SUBJECT would be based on the reputation of her family in this.
area. In addition, he advised that he knew “nothing of an adverse
nature ,concerning this family which could in any way preclude the
SUBJECT. ‘from consideration for a position of trust and confidence
with: ‘the! United States Government, :

on 10 June 1960, Mr. MILAN DUMP, a 1 developed informant

and former, Principal of the York Tabulating Service Inc., now

defunct, “was interviewed on the premises of his home at 101 Marion
Street, -Informant readily recalled, the SUBJECT as.a former employee |
of the York. Tabulating Service under his direction for two summer
periods... He advised that during the afore mentioned two summer
periods, SUBJECT performed her duties in an outstanding excellent.
manner and he could only refer to her in most laudatory terms ~ as

;@ per sonality. He stated that SUBJECT, in his opinion, is an

. extremely intelligent young woman and one who would be an asset in
‘- the employment with the federal government. Even ‘though SUBJECT

: was employed. by him as a temporary summer employee, she approached :
“her work as “though this were her primary means of livelihood, “She oo
“dis an exée pt ionally herd working, conscientious young woman of |. 1

absolute: honesty, integrity and loyalty, He also knew th SURIECT!S
parents by Teputat fon as outstanding members aa well as: loyal
respectable citizens here in York for a number of years. Informant
concluded by stating that he would, without hesitation, highly

‘andor sd the SURJECT for a position of trust and confidence with the

United States Government,

_- On- 10 June 1960, developed informant, Mr. MURLO YINCER,
Guidance Counselor,. william Penn High School, was intetviewed, In-
formant reported that in addition to knowing the SUBJECT as a former
student in this high school, he also knew her. parents for a number
of years and considered himself ‘to be a close family friend, SupB-
JECT'S Eather has been employed as a school teacher and coach in

the York educational system for more than twenty years, By. virtue

of Wis outstanding record of a basketball coach in this high school,
SUBJECT'S father has gained state wide recognition and has been

very popular here. in York among the citizenry who are rabid baske't-
ball. fans, In addition to his coaching, SUBJECT'S father is a very

S vos, . -3.-
DocId: 32395672 Page 5

 

 

 
peereee

 

 

Case No. 186927

fine teacher of mathematics in this high school, SUBJECT'S mother,
who has been ill the last few years, recently went under a serious
heart operation and is still recuperating. Both. of SUBIE ICTS

_ parents were held in high esteem by the informant,

SUBJECT maintained. an out standiag academic record at this
7 high school while she was in attendance. Through her academic
efforts, she won a scholarship to RadcliffeCollege from where she
is presently about to graduate. SUBJECT, in hig-opinion, is an
extremely. intelligent, mature young woman who has enjoyed an
excellent ‘envirorment as well asthe good sound counsel of her parents...
She, would undoubtedly make an outstanding contribution in her. pro-
spective employment with the federal government,. She is, like ‘her
father, a perfectionist in every true sense of the word, extremely.
conscientious, and would undoubtedly” ‘exercfge all her ener gies in
_. performing adequately. In addition to. the SUBJECT, there is “one
i other child in this family, a boy, who is presently attending-
i : one of. the high school in the vicinity of his parents home on

Randolph Drive,

‘Informant concluded by stating that he would, without’
qualification and with enthusiasm, highly recommend the SUBIECT for
a position. of trust and confidence with the United ‘States Government..-”
On 19 June 1960, developed informant, Detective JAMES
KOSER, ‘Criminal Identification Bureau, Police Department, was
interviewed onthe premises of his office, Informant reported that .

SUBJECT was, not known personally. to him but that he did know her
ee Ue parents | through his Eormer. association with them at the First A
a Presbyterian Church here in York, : we Fe
. SURJECT'S father Is a very populer figure here in York |
because of his outstanding. record aa a basketball coach at William
Penn High School, He has gained state wide recognition hecause of
his outstanding coaching record, He advised, however, that he no
‘ longer. shares an association with SURJECT'S parents through the

afore mentioned church, as he no longer retains membership in this
particular: church,

 

 
  

\

; He volunteered information to the effect that he ‘relinquished a
his membership in this, church because of its present minister, Reverend”
ERNEST CAMPBELL. He advised that: Reverend CAMPBELL is alleged to be
Pro-Sovict: in his views in the form of editorlals which are published

' :

   
 

 

 

“HW 53216 Docid:32395672 Page 6
 

aR

  

FILE NO... 186927 Oe pare. sbgae 1900.
Cockre gy, MARGRET r Jean ob

 

“SYNOPSIS

 

 

 

   
     
   
       
     
   
   
       
     
  

 

At York and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania ------ SUBJECT was
‘born 4 Jamary 1939 at York, Pennsylvania, Education William Penn
High School, September 1953 to June 1956, verified, Record satis-
factory. Bnployment by Liquor Control Board, June to September
‘1959; J.C. Penney & Company, July to September 1958; and York
. Tabulating Service, Inc,, June to September 1957 and 1956, verified,
/ ALL employments satisfactory, One given reference and five develop-
.ed informants recommend on the basis of loyalty, character and |
reputation, One. other informant, member of the Detective Division,
Police Depattment, York, Pennsylvania, comments favorably concerning } .
reputation of SUBJECTS parents through former association at church].
of preference, |He advises, however; - that che. no! ‘long Sek ‘retain: *agtthed
association. with particular church Se 3
is alleged to be pro-Soviet in bu
published in alleged local pro-Soviet~ publica
Daily...Same informant states that minister in question has been
the subject of inquiry in his office by the Federal Bureau of In- }
vestigation because of his editorials in the afore mentioned .
publication, The principal of this news publication has also beén
the SUBJECT of inquiry in his office by tha afore mentioned fedégal:
agency. { He further advises, however, that many substantial people
of uiquestionable reputation in York are members of the afore
mentioned congregation, SUBJECT'S relationship with particular
minister, a given reference,, ascert i ed to be distant and more
“than nominal by parents by virtue other's iliness. Neighbor-
hoods favorable. Appropriate Credit clear. Police no record,

 

 

      

    
        
    
         
     
       

  

 
 

 

 

REPORT. NO..

FORM ‘NO.
FOBUNG 1125-

HW 53216 “DocId: 32395672 Page 2
_ Do Date: 10/19/01
, Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10440-10111
RECORD SERIES :' JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER’: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE
TTS a ee mm em ee WD ~~ ---~-£ eleased under the John - -

DOCUMENT INFORMATION . Kennedy
: . Psasassination Records
ORIGINATOR : CIA * Bollection Act of 1992
FROM : | : ; : (44 USC 2107 Note).
__ TO : ase#:NW 53216 Date:
‘TITLE : SYNOPSIS- (SOURCE) . : he-19-2017

 

DATE : 07/13/60 .
2 6 :
SUBJECTS : NBR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/22/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : JFK-RHO9:F170-II 1998.12.22.13:26:40:200108: NOT
BELIEVED RELEVANT. (NBR) ”

AW 53216 Docld:32395672 Page 1
  

able iescadh MOSMAN tinltate alte AM Re calibecdhie Mae me oe PLAIN AD sake cainte Lah sae GA bse STeabe Fetus edb CRRLLM anh Ntsc A MARRS

  

Case No, 186927

 

BIRTH:

At Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

“On 3 June 1960, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Depart-
ment of Health and Vital Statistics, made available by mail a
verification of SUBJECT'S birth certificate, This certificate in-
dicated that SUBJECT was born on 4 January 1939 at York, Pennsylvania.
This birth certificate was filed on 12 January 1939 under file number,
. 13758- 39.

EDUCATION:

At York Pennsylvania

‘On 10 June 1960, Doctor 0, MEREDITH PARRY, principal,
William Penn Senior High School, was interviewed, Referring to
SUBJECTS student record, he advised that she was in attendance
at this high school from September 1953 until 1 June 1956, at.
Se which time she. graduated, SURJECT, upon graduation, was awarded a
PO College Preparatory Diploma and ranked 5th out of a graduating. class
: ‘of 525,° SUBJECT compiled an outstanding. academic record and in a
Henmon Nelson 1Q Form of Testing, in 1953, her IQ score was recorded
-* ag 136. In 1954, in an ACE Form of Testing, SUBJECT stood in the
98 percentile, Her record was free of disciplinary action.

 

 

EMPLOYMENT :

At Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

On 8 June. 1960, Mr. WILLIAM CAUFFIELD, Personnel Director, Be

_ State Liquor Control Board, was interviewed, He reported from record .

that SUBJECT was employed at this office from 11 June until 16 Sept ember oe
1959 as.a temporary summer employee, She was ensaged as a clerk- 7

_-typist and: performed her duties in a very excellent and satisfactory
manner,- Her.Social Security Number was recorded ag 187-30-2100,° SUD-

. JECT resigned of her own accord to return to school at Radcliffe
‘wo. College. ‘Her permanent residence address was recorded ag 395 Randolph:
: Drive, York, Pennsylvania. ,

 

ra
”

. At York, Pennsylvania oe

+ On 10 June 1960, Mr. PATRICK MENDBAHALL, Assistant Manager,
: wee a a :

 

"HW 53216 . Docld:32395672 Page 3
  

Case No, 186927

J.C. Pémhey -& Company, was interviewed on the premises of his
business‘ ‘address at 116 West Market Stteet. He reported from pay-
roll records that SUBJECT was employed at this store from July
through September in the year 1958 and also during the Christmas -
holiday period of 1958, SURJECT was favorably employed as a sales
clerk in the sportswear department, Her Social Security Number
was recorded as 187-30-2100,

 

: On 10 June 1960, Mr. MILAN BUMP, former principal in the
business known as York Tabulating Service Inc,, now defunct, was
interviewed on the premises of his office at 101 Merion Street.
‘Informant reported that there were no records available concerning
SUBJECT 'S former period of employment. He readily recalled the
SUBJECT, hovever, and advised that she was employed by him during
the summers of 1956 and 1957, SURJECT was favorably engaged asa
clerk-typist and nerformed her duties in a very excellent manner, -
Further comments of Mr, BUMP, who refers to SUSJECT in most. laudatory
terms, are included under the caption REFERENCES, :

 

 

REFERENCES:

   

“At York, Penns ryania

if pabe — ae ; ;
fepsed? - On 10 June 1960, given reference, Reverend ERNEST CAMPRELL,
ae ister of the First Presbyterian Church, was fiterviewed on

      

     
   

 

ptemises of his office at 27 North Queen Street. Informant \reported
and volunteered the information that he knew the SUBJECT as 4 member
of his’ congregation but did not. share a close relationship, with her

fo a due to.the fact that SUBJECT has been away to college during the past
f 2 ™ four years.. The only time that he hag seen the SUBJECT during the
oe: , last four-years would be on an aceasional basis during her summer.
ee vacation period at home. :

 

“With respect to his acquaintance with SUBJECT'S parents,
informant advised that he would have what he termed more than a .
nominal. relationship with them because of SUBJECT'S mother's recent
illness, a heart ailment, that occasioned visits to their home in
his capacity as their minister. The reputation of SURJECT'S parents
in this vicinity is unblemished with respect to loyalty and moral
character. SURJECT'S father-is well-known in this vicinity as the

high. school basketball coach, He is a very popular man in this town
because of his outstanding record as basketball coach at William Penn

High School for a number of years. SUBJECT'S mother had a serious °
heart operation recently and is still recuperating from the-effect. '

    

Jf! .
HW sdhac .Docld:32395672 Page 4 - 2-
