LOCATION -FILE DESCRIPTION
a. C/CI

3. The following files remain to be reviewed and
possibly processed: (5S) ;

Wiscellanecus Policy, 6
Cperaticnal, and
Subject Files
q9 a,
. C/CI Gperation [CANARYJ- 9-1

Soviet Contacts -
-Misc Subject Files

2 ,
. C/CI [2RFAFFY Chrono 8

n

 

c/CI Vogel+ 11
(Records Case - é X-

. Center) Case -*(HENINDOW Project-

CROpEITER) Case -
ZIBGSORNING - |
2(2RPASSKEY Project -
2{ZRCHEST Project -
gz(PYHULKAGE Project -
“MIKE/PORTIO/HAITI -
2 GiBMILKY Case -
ITKIN File

4 ,
CI/A/1S [GROUNDHOG] Case - 22
(Records Covers period 1944-
Center) 1969.

. C/C1/0G Misc. Liaison Files - 1

Sensitive portions
of 201 and Operations”
Files. -

. FOOTAGE

into 201 files.

“processing

‘individuals

REMARKS

 
    
   

OSINT-
rily
integrate into
existing files.

Open Subject
files. Integfate

Sensitive -
Restricted -
None in DO
Records System.

INS Analyst

required.
Some sensitive.

§ X 8 Card Index
in CI/A/IS.

Review files.
Scme material
integrate into-
PMF and other
official. files.
Ootain file
number, register
crypt. Index

involved in
case.

Processing
required.

 
meee os = .
. =

LOCATION FILE DESCRIPTION FOOTAGE REMARKS
g. C1I/A/T COMINT Case Files. ‘20 . Review for
: processing into
officjal files.

> A : A

h. CI/A/1S  [LGMAYFOWL Project 9 Some official
a co, docunents.

Includes
approximately
10,000 S X 8
index cards.
Official subject
file 100-006-113
already indexed
but should be
reviewed for
future. retention. |
Request IMS
advice on how
to proceed with
this review.”

i. CI/A/IS Sensitive CIA/ 30 Contains
LIAISON Files. ; memoranda -
. . Very Sensitive -
None in DO
Records System.

4. In addition to the above, a member of your
Staff has been reviewing and consolidating the [KHE HEAT] 7
Project. When the review is completed we hope to
yeceive a recommendation on whether or not this material
shovld be processed. This project, is sensitive and
contains some 35 feet of unprocessed paper. Fresent
plans, agreed to by members ofpgyour Staff, call for the
same kind of review of the [GR UNDHOG] > taterial (Item e)
prior to processing by the IMS Analysts assigned io the
Staff. (S)

CRERET
at

 

[e-
 

‘much of the original 417 feet of Staff unprocessed
records have been reviewed by either the IMS Analysts

‘that 246 feet of files have been reviewed by the Task

ee DBA Nor V0
rn apenas cata
CI 140-79

MEMCRALOUM. FOR: Chief, Information Management Staff

 

ATTENTION : Chief, Operations Group
FROM : David H. Blee
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff
SUBJECT od CI Staff Record Study
REFERENCE - :’ Information Services Staff Nemorandum,

76-572, dated 23 November 1976

1. The IMS Analyst Team assigned to Cl Staff has
Completed a little over two years of an-estimated 3.4
years' assignment to the Staff. During this period

or CI Staff personnel. The Analysts recently completed
the processing of over 2,000 soft files which are the
responsibility of our. Technical Branch. This task was
cone in a most expeditious manner. We remain thankful
‘for the caliber of personnel you have been sending to
the Staff. (C)

‘2. %In order t6 more fully understand how best to
complete the remaining unprocessed records we have
compiled a listing of those records reviewed by the ISS
Analyst Tezm in 1976, but not yet completed. We estimate

Force end another 81 feet by Cl Staff personnel, leaving
roughly 90 feet of unprocessed material yet. to be reviewed
and possibly incorporated into the DO Central Records
System. Nuch of the paper reviewed by CI Staff personnel
were found to be duplicate and were destroyed. Those
documents which had to be processed were given to the

IMS Analysts for processing. (U)

   
  

Cents ONS 9S ES .
TSE $249 Imi: ee 4
Pare a1 de. —M

  

/0
13-00000 ~
ee
Subject: CI Staff Records Study

Attachments:
1. Annex A - Survey of the Active Records of. the
Counterintelligence Staff ‘

Attachment 1:° Records requiring processing
Attachment 2: Sensitive records requiring special
processing .
Attachment 3: Recommendations for Policy and
: Management files

2.. . Annex B’- Computer system proposal for handling
CI Staff's sensitive names ;

- 3 .
pbO/ISS/SG/AD{ J:bg (19 November 1976) X7371

Distribution: ; ;

Original §.1 - C/CI (w/att)
2 - C/ISS (w/o att)
1 - DC/ISS (w/o att)
1 - EPS/EG (w/o att)
1 - ISPG (w/o att)
1 - C/IMG (w/att)

. 1 - C/IPG (w/o att)

1 - C/SG (w/o att)
1 - C/SG/AD (w/o att)
1 - Project File (FLE) (w/att)
1 - Reading Board (w/o att)
1 - EPS/EG (Mr. Glenn Brown) {w/o att)

SECRET
d. Analyze and process current as well as. backlogged,
sensitive material, (including CI Operational.Letters and
(2RYAFFY) into the Central Records System.

or

5. A computerized information system should be developed
to enable CI Staff to maintain a central index of names that are
considered too sensitive to record in the DDO Central Records System.
Indexes to sensitive names are currently being held by individual
case officers and it is difficult to account for the names and the
documents they are identified in. A compartmented computer file will
enable CI Staff to identify readily their sensitive name holdings

-and account for the associated documents.

6. The system should also allow DDO main index name trace
requests to be compared with the sensitive name file. The fact that
another component or:agency is conducting.a trace on a name considered
sensitive by CI Staff concerns the Staff. This type of comparison

.will provide a.mechanism for alerting the Staff to outside interest,

“ip/

CI Staff personnel can then take appropriate action (such as contacting
the requester).

. 7. All processing that involves these names must be done
in a manner that affords maximum security. Annex B contains a

proposal for developing a computerized system for handling these
sensitive names. However, ISS is considering other alternatives
for meeting this requirement. ;

D. ALTERNATIVES

1. An solutiohs to the CI Staff's record keeping problems
explored by the ISS team involved processing the appropriate
holdings into the DDO Central Records System. Failure to process
the material into the Central Records System means running the —
risk that, in any investigation, or in response to Freedom of
Information Act or Privacy Act inquiries, information will be
overlooked or brought forth piecemeal to erode the Agency's credibility
or bring into question management's control over information
collection and exploitation. The following solutions were explored:

a. The various card indexes being held by CI Staff
could be entered into the records system to provide access
to the CI files. The files could continue to be held in
hard copy or converted to microform to reduce storage require-
ments. However, these indexes do not contain the biographic .
data necessary to facilitate positive identification during
a name trace of the central system. The files themselves
must also be reviewed and processed to eliminate fragmentation,
incorrect titles and filing, etc.

#7

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

b: | The existing records could be sent to IP/Data Manage-
ment Section for processing into the records system. IP/DMS
has the records expertise and the computer terminals necessary
to support records processing. This approach would necessitate
moving the records from CI Staff to IP/DMS which could present
security problems. It would also impede CI access to the
material while it was being processed. Because the IP/DMS
analysts have other work to perform, the CI material would
have a secondary priority which would defer the completion of
the project.

E. | RECOMMENDATIONS
The ISS Team's. recommendations are that:

1. CI Staff's record material should be integrated into the.

"poo Central Records System.

2. _ A project team should be established to expedite this
records integration.

- 3. Computer terminals should be installed in CI Staff to
facilitate records processing.

4. Fragmented files should be consolidated and responsibilities
for them fixed.

5. . Policy and management files should be opened.

6.. A computer system should be developed to allow names
of sensitive. personalities to be recorded in the central system
for access by authorized CI Staff personnel and to enable CI Staff
to monitor interest in these personalities. Controls for sensitive
files should be developed on a case by case basis.

7. A senior ISS. analyst should be assigned to CI Staff to
handle current records processing needs. ;

8. Although the ISS Team did not attempt to make recommen-
dations on altering the design of the DDO Records System,
they did see a need to improve the system's facilities for
handling sensitive material. CI Staff is not the only component
that deals with sensitive material, and other components like
CI Staff tend to control their sensitive material outside the
central system. To ensure that sensitive material. is: accounted
for in the central system, methods for protecting sensitive holdings
must be designed into a future records system.

_ fef Ceariza A. Brigns
Charles A. Briggs

ae

SECRET
official files have not been opened and records are not being
processed into the DDO Central Records System because the material
is considered too sensitive. Procedures for processing this
material into the records system are being developed.

2. CI Staff has accumulated several hundred feet of
files that contain a mixture of record and non-record material.
Many of these files are fragmented, reflecting previously divided
or parallel responsibilities among CI Staff, and in some cases,
other DDO components. There are many files, and many documents
within files, particularly CI Staff memoranda, codeword material,
sensitive liaison correspondence, etc., which have never been
processed into the records system. Some of these files, especially
those being held at the Records Center, are ambiguously identified.
Some of the documents in these files are completely unrelated to the

‘subject of the file. The files that have a continuing operational

value should be pulled together and the records in the files indexed
and abstracted in accordance with existing procedures. The files
that no longer have an operational value should be retired in their
present form. While it is not necessary to perform in-depth indexing
of these dormant records, it. is important that the names of people
with whom the Agency has been operationally involved be identified
in the records system. Files that contain background, reference,
and working papers are being held but apparently are not being used.
The ISS recommendations for disposition of the files, including the
destruction of much material in accordance with approved records
schedules: and the retirement or transfer of other holdings to

more appropriate components, are contained in Annex A. ;

3. There are a number of policy and management files”
that should be established for the documents that reflect the
Staff's plans,, policies and procedures. The documents that provide
this type of information are currently buried in miscellaneous files
and cannot be retrieved, in an organized manner.

4. ‘There are several card indexes being held by CI Staff.
These indexes do not reflect current Staff needs nor do they
meet the indexing criteria established for the DDO Records System.
They are filled with extraneous information such as the names of. .
authors of CI Staff papers. CI/Research and Analysis Group maintains
an index of 270,000 3x5 cards that provides access by name to its
extensive document holdings. The cards in this index contain a
name and document reference but. no biographic data to facilitate
identification. Many of the cards should be purged, but there is

. insufficient data on the cards themselves to make a judgment. These.

indexes. should not be integrated into the Records System. The names
can be indexed into the system directly from the documents that
warrant processing into the central system.

SEC i T
40303-40000

ea, | 25 sci i976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence c*aff

FROM : Charles ‘AL Briggs
Chief, Information Services Staff
SUBJECT : + CI Staff Records Study
_ REFERENCE : Memorandum for the Record dated 4 February 1976,

Subject: Meeting with Chief, CI Staff, from
Chief, Information Services Group

A. PURPOSE AND SCOPE
1. At the request of Chief, cI Staff, ‘an ISS Analyst Team

has worked with the CI Staff to:

a. Conduct a study of CI Staff's records holdings,
records keeping practices and problems.

b. Develop recommendations for bringing CI Staff's
twenty-five year accumulation of compartmented and sensitive
records and files under control of the DDO Central Records
System.

c. Design methods for recording sensitive information —
in the DDO Central Records System to provide leads to CI.
‘Staff's, holdings while providing appropriate protection.

d. Coordinate ‘systems development activity needed to
help CI Stafé- accomplish the recommended objectives.

2. . The ISS Team surveyed the. CI Staff's records holdings
to determine how these records relate to the DDO Central Records
System. All records being held at Headquarters were reviewed; a
sampling of the material being held at the Records Center was

reviewed.

3. The ISS team reviewed current resw.ds bewcliag practice
to measure records traffic and ascertain that material was being

properly processed into the DDO Central Records System.

B. FINDINGS

1. The records currently being maintained by CI Staff to
support its existing organization are generally well organized
and for the most part, properly maintained. There are cases where

3
SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 060475
5. Some material is considered too sensitive to be processed
by the Central Records System. There are names that cannot be
disclosed during a routine name trace because of the personality's
notoriety or operational significance. There are documents which
require special handling to protect sensitive sources and the CI
Staff's interest in certain cases and subjects.

c. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS

l. Annex A identifies the files being held in each CI Staff
office and the Records Center and contains recommendations for their
disposition. A considerable number of these files should be analyzed
to ensure that records are properly filed and identified in the DDO
Central Records System. Miscellaneous files such as background,
reference, and working papers that do not contain record material
need not be processed into the records system. CI Staff should review
them to determine their utility and destroy those that are no longer
used. The following recommendations on staffing, computer support,
and space should help to support integration of the appropriate
records into the central system. -

e

a. Staffing

(1) A project team consisting of ISS personnel
should be established to analyze the record material and
perform.the necessary codification, abstracting, indexing,

' cross-referencing and cross-filing. Experience or training as
an ISS analyst is a prerequisite for processing this material.
The age and diversity of the material will present unusual
problems. Experience with both the older records and the
‘facilities provided by the records system to support document
processing is desirable.

(2) There is a total of 418 feet of record material
to be analyzed and it will take an estimated 11.9 man years
based on the following statistics. :

f pages # pages £ documents
per foot per ASeument analyzed per hour

2000 21/2 7

(3) The project team should consist of four ISS
analysts. Three of these analysts should process records
full time. The fourth should be a senior analyst who can
supervise the project and process records half time. The
senior-analyst must have a practical knowledge of the
records system, especially the older records, and the
CI Staff's past records keeping practices.

Ss

“SECRET
 

wk YR GD ob

b. Computer Support

(1). It is recommended that a Video Display Terminal
-and.a remote printer be installed in the CI Staff area. This
display terminal and associated. printer will enable the analysts

to communicate directly with the computerized data base containing

name, file, and document status information. These terminals
will be used to process the old records into the system and to
perform current records processing needs.

(2) It is recommended that two Four-Phase Data

Entry terminals be installed in the CI Staff area to allow analyst

_ to key new index and abstract records. It is estimated that
somewhat less than 50% of the documents. to be analyzed will
require processing. Using an average of two index and one
abstract. records per document, approximately 500,000 records
will have to be keyed. Remote installation at the analysts'
working area will eliminate the need to mail documents to IP
Electronic Data Input Section for processing.

c. Space

A secure area will be needed as work space for
the analysts, computer and data entry terminals, and document
. storage. The CI/Research and Analysis Group's vault, Room 2B-28
is recommended. It is large enough to accommodate a team of
four analysts. Its proximity to ODP's Special Computer
Center and IP/Electronic Data Input Section facilitates computer
and data entry terminal installation. Also, a large portion of
the files to be analyzed are already stored in this area.

2. The responsibility for maintenance of files that are
split between two or more CI Staff components should be assigned
to.a single component and the material in the files consolidated.

3. The CI/RMO should establish Policy and Management files
to provide a repository for the’ records that document the plans,
policies, and procedures of the CI Staff. Annex A, Attachment 3
identifics such files deemed necessary by the ISS survey team.

4. The senior analyst who supervises the ISS team should
also serve permanently as the CI Staff analyst to perform four basic
functions:

a. Process CI material currently being handled by
the. IP/Data Management Section.

b. Ensure that files are properly opened and maintained.

c. Serve as a records referent to provide advice on how
sensitive cases and projects can be processed into the records
system in a manner that protects the privacy of sources and
methods. 4
