 

y
reason and for AMVYEIP-s orn husiness satters, we will prozran
his return to Europe for sometime during the first or second
woeks of March 1965. AMVHIP-1 was told that arranzements would be
made for hig to xnow about, or actually to meet, the catensible
sgeuree of this infermation in New Yor< sometime during the last
week of February or the first vweex of March. He was told algo
te xeep in touch with the undersigned in the event of any
news received from Europe concerning AMLASH~1 or any of the
east of characters in this memorandus.

4. The meeting terminated at 1610 hours and there were
no incidences of a security nature te be reported.

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 ES yen fsa NALCO ERS. womb et Ome ARNE aetna DBT ABE hn pn ie eM EEE

.

at kee

 

 

wie. ete

 

 
 

tReet treet ees arn Nt Rant mieten tte Hone ana weg fees hvpnsnemeee suas ene -eaeee ener sa gen RET Ssrttnnerant ot Seen nore

BEY eres ee.

aS

=Be

involving only AMWHIP. He felt that he could be more effective
with continuous guidance and direction during hia European
sojourns. (AMVHIP also implied that the case officers were
understandably busy with their many local probiems and could
not devote as much time as possibly was desirable to AMWHIP-l's
ease. On the other hand, AMWHIP-1 delicately submitted that

if he was willing to tase the tine for the operations, and if
in fact they were worthwhile and necessary, we should make
every reasonable effort to glean the most benefit from his
efforts. In summary, if feasible, be prefers to deal with one
case officer on all aspects of hig Operational activity.

AMLASH-1, According to AMWHIP-1, be and AMLASH-1 have
established an open code for signalling his desire for exfiitration
or to inform AMVHIP-1 when the date of his Attempt will be.
ExfAiltration involves the use of birthday greetings to Loretta
Sylvia indicate exfiltration from Matanzas or Miramar,
respectively. AMBIDDY~1 presumably has the details for execution
once ho ig informed of the <eyword by AMWHIP-1. .The Attempt ia
be noted by any mention of the nage SIMON, together with a date,
hig IT..

Pp. Deception Ploy (Rumor plant with UNSNAFU-19).
In response to the request for his op{aion 6a. this subject
‘after it had been outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,
AMIHIP-1 atated that he thought that he could carry this off
without UNSNAFU-19 being suspicious. He stated that this type
ef information would have to come forth at the right moment in
@ natural manner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.
He felt that to do this by telephone or letter would be totally
out of keeping with his normal rélationship with UNSNAFU-19
and that it should not be done in that zanner, In response to
the suggestion, howewer, he said that it could be done if his
stopping off in. Paris to see UNSNAFU-19 too< place ag a part of
@ normal business trip to Europe. He also stated that he felt
he had to have something upon which to peg the story. AMWRIP-1
agreed with the feasibility of the Suggestion of putting him in
touch with a reputable businessman is Kew Yors, who has good
connections in Government circles in Washington and whom he
conceivably could have xnown for some time as a result of a
normal business relationship. AMWHIP=1 agreed to return to -
Europe in .wo or three weexs especially to perform this tas.
He was in agreement with the undersigned's idea that, in order
to play it as safely as Possible, this meeting with UNSNAFU~19
should not take place at least until after the 24th of February,
the expected return date of AMLASH-1 to Havana. Both. for this

 

  

“4

+

stem etcmt epee

|
|

|
|

 

 

 
 

. -7-

 

:
g
i
5
3
g
:
3
4
g
f

°
&
e
&
oe
5
r
3
o
8
e
é

eaid, “Yeh, I gave it to bin",
be hesitated. After a little discusgion and a direct Question,
be stated that he hid Given $7,000 to AMLASH=1, AMUHIP-1 ~

“ y

that the money - would be given to him Probably this weekend
(20-21 February) in Paris by AMNVHIP-2. AMWHIP=} etated that
AMTHIP-2 had becone davolved in the traneaction because he -
bad to appeal to him for help in raising the oney in a fairly
confidential’ manner, 4rrangesests to give AMLASH~1 noney .
during hie etay in Kadrid had fallen through, AMUHIP had .
learned, thus the reason for AMPHIP-3'g being forced to go :
to Paris in order to give it to him this weekend, AMPHIP-1 Lot:
algo stated that AKLASH=-1 had asked Jose ‘Iglesias in Havana fe
> * for some 3,000 pegos. Iglesias was not able to raise the sum
: - a@t the time requested. Whether or not he is attempting to do

sO now, or has succeeded. in doing so during AMLASH-1's absence,

4s not Known at this tims. It sbould be noted that dering

  
  

 

ore

Praia, Lato 2

 

H-2. He aleo felt that there were Bany bite and pieces .-
ef the whole picture that were net tied into & neat-bindle and
utilized to their ¢ull extent by the Americans. The undersigned
at ro time adnitted that he was avare of any ANBIDDY/Ansrican
relationship as alluded to by AM@HIP-], so i . .

7 0. @. For .the record, AMWTHIP-2 again stressed the fact that
vs be felt that he could produce more information ané better serve

 

: (and
European-based case officers) © e he .
bas dealt) was very helpful and that he enjeyed their relationship,
- but that there was en obvious lack of Gepth of knowledge of a11
“-  ggpects of an AMLASR-AMwHIP Operation and also of those principally

 

      

i
i
i
i
!

 
 

 

~S=

“I. Cuban Government Financial Straits. (Ref.
PARI 9067, IN 75872, I February 65) ASWHIB-C added some
additional comments on the silver payments cited in ref.
AMWHIP=1 stated that the Cubars were apparently very anxious
to soll the silver cited in Ref. Actually AMWHIP-1
stated that the total amount of the payments would be in
the neighborhood of $350,000 and this included antiques,
postage stamps, silver bullion, and "“worsed" silver articles.
AMVHIP alsotgtated that he had been assed if he would
be willing/buy $100,000 worth of silver on the spot, the
cash to be placed in a reputable international ban«.
This discussion had been carried on by international telephone
with Pepin Sanchez, brother-in-law of Celia Sanchez, and Jose
Igiesias Lopez, good friend of AYWHIP-1 and former Havana
Jeweler. AMWHIP-1 talsed to the above in Havana from the Cuban
Embassy, Paris. This $100,000 was a part of the total $350,000
mentioned above. AMWHIP-1l turned down the sale, stating that
he did not normally deal in silver, and was not sure of the
value of the worked items offered for sale. AMWEHIP-1 stated
that this sale was to be executed on behalf of Castro
personally and did not necessarily reflect the overall
financial picture of the Cuban government. AMWHIP-1 stated
that AMLASH-1 had told him that such an action was typical
of Castro, who in many instances, conducted business
arrangepents of his own, without regard or without consultation,
with the members of his government normally involved in Cuban
national finances. AMMHIP-1 stated that UNSKAFU-19 also had
intimated the above. AMWHIP-1 stated that he believed that
this money was needed for the downpayment on two factories
which had been purchased by the Cubans in Great Britain.
He also stated that he believed these factories were for
the processing of agricultural products of some type. Also,
concerning the silver, according to AMWHIP-1, that 30% had
been reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of “wor:ed"
Bilver articles (antiques, art treasures, jewelry, etc.)
AMWHIP stated that this entire offering of silver antiques, etc.
had eventually been sold on the spot in Havana for cash to
@n unknown person of Turzish/Italian bac«ground. AMYHIP
tried to find out the identity of the person but neither
UNSNAFU~-19, in person, nor Iglesias, by phone, would
; Feveal the identity of the buyer. AMWHIP-1 offered to write .
* OF as« Iglesias for the name, but we cautioned against it .
as showing undue interest in the matter. AMWVHIP~1 vas told
‘that if he ever saw Izlesias in person and could Safely asx
him he should do so together with any details he could
obtain about the transaction, as it was related to Cuban
f4mancial problens. AMHIP-{ stated that on his return to

 

|
|

—

 

 

  

 
 

hens vent sa theme matin, MEBs See dtatia

A tak soe ae tes wees

La ASSL ait ee

a cr etaesee’

 

Go

the Paris Asbassador's conference in Madrid, UNSNAFU-19 earried
& very large trunk in his car. It was so heavy that the rear of
the car was clearly weighted-down. AMWHIP speculated that this
trunk had been brought to Madrid by Arnold RODRIGUEZ Camps and
was turned over to UNSNAPU~-19 prior to the latter's return to
Paris. in connection with this, AMWHIP-) received & phone call
from AMLASH-1 from Paria stating that UNSNAFU-19 was going te
Geneva on the 18th of February and had fovited AMLASH-1.
AHLASH~1 declined the invitation, due te his desire to return to
Havana via Madrid on the 23rd of this month. On the morning of
the 19th of February AM#IIP-1 received a call from AMHIP=2
stating that UNSNAFU-19 was driving to Geneva on the 19th. He
hed with him some $11,000 in silver articles. AMV¥HIP-2, who saw
the items, said that the “stuff was cheap" (meaning inferior
workmanship and quality).

m. AMLASH~-1, Morale and Finances. We then broached the
topic of A’ aa and present frame of mind after our
refusal to give him $10,000 that he requested for operational
uses. AMWHIP-1 stated that he thought AMLASH-1 was not overly
disturbed by this, but that 1a general he was somewhat upset by
the fact that he had even entered into negotiations with AXMBIDDY-1,
objecting to bis "political mentality". It might be noted that
AMVEIP~-1 also stated his reservations about AMBIDDY-1, Frog
this, we derived the feeling that AMLASH-1 and AMWHIP=-1 both
had strong but unspecified reservations about the motivation and
morality of AMBIDDY-1. AMLASH said that due to this reservation
of AMLASH-1's, and due to the relative newness of the contact,
AHLASH-1 was extremely reluctant to taxe any money from AMBIDDY-1,

_Which, of course, in the end he did not. AMWHIP-1 stated that

AMLASH folt that he had been pushed by the Americans into a
basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-1, ALSTHIP-1 stated
that he, as well as AHLASH-1 were still baffled at the American
reluctance to deal across the board on all matters. with
AHLASH-1. He stated that AMLASH-1 had received certain itens
from AMBIDDY~1 that he was not able to ebtain from the Americans.
AMWHIP-1 made it a point to state that AMLASH-1 noted immediately
and pointedly that the items provided to hin by AMBIDDY-1 vere
not homemade nor apparently one-of-xind items. (the inference here
being quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned wag that these
items obviously came from commercial sources.)

- t
n. The Subject of the Funds Requested by AMLASH. Ax¥RIP

stated that thess were absolutely necessary for AWLASH to <eep
people of his choice in particular jobs where they could be of

ig

 

   
74-0000

b. In discussing CUHOPS' desire to cooperate, AMWHIP
stated that QUHOPS would do what he could to help but that
im exchange for this he wanted to get his wife, two children,
and bis mother~in-iaw to the United States along with himself.
AMVHIP-1 stated that QUHOPS' plan in brief was to accept
the guard duty on Sunday thus maxing probably only himself
and the wife of code clurx present in the embassy. We
thanzed AMVHIP for his information and suggestions and
stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate parties

concerned.

@. Gustavo GONZALES. (AMLASH-1's “cousin") AMWHIP-1
stated that he had no Information on Gonzales, in whom
Nestor Sanchez has an with regard to his
(Sanchez') pending o acas, Venezuela.

d. “Venezuolan" Returning from Moscow. Regarding the
Venezuelan who has reportedly to ve just come from Yoscow
and returming to Cuba, AMMHIP-1 stated that he had no
information to contribute about the man. He did say, however,
that one time during his recent trip to the Cuban Febassy
Paris talking with UNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had interrupted
their conversation in order to tal to two men (about 30-35
years old). AMWHIP-1 met them briefly and was told by one
of thes that they were from Oriente Province, AMWHIP=1
stated that he could tell immediately by their accents
that they were not Cuban. In order to confirm this he
asked thes where in Oriente they were from because one of the
Cuban officials in Parig was from Oriente and always wanted
to chat with any people from Oriente who passed through Paris.
After a brief stumbling exercise, groping for a name of a —
city in Oriente, the “Cuban” confessed that they were not
Cubang but Venezuelans. AMWHIP did not have suffident tine
to learn more about them. The two Yenezuelans spent about
thirty sinutes talking with UNSNAFU-19 while AMWHIP was there.
He did not know how much longer previous to this thirty
minutes that the Venezuelang had been in the Embassy or to whom
else they talked. AMMHIP-1 suggested that UNSNAFU-9 might
be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelans in question.

 

eat SARE ee sane ee neon acento cet cs .

Sonsteantanst ates.

@. UNSNAFU-19's Membership in the "Gaslight Club".

_ ~ As a support service for a Paris Station operation to get
UNSNAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be
attempted to run a highly desirable female agent against him.
AMLASH-1 stated that he had been unable, due to UNSNAFU~-19's
busy schedule, to get the latter down to the Gaslight Club
and enrolled as a member. AMWHIP stated, however, that he
sould do the job just as well by taxing out a gift menbership
for UNSNAFU-19 through the Gaslight Club in New Yor« City, ‘
and sending UNSNAFU~-19's membership card and «ey to hia in
Paris. We encouraged AMWHIP-1 to do this and to <eep ua

advised of hie progress.

oN 1 See eit eat Ne to

__fitate ont

erg pete

  

ce tte PRES I ste Tei Buti te

a eebbediets oto.

ip ne

 
”

by

:

 

2

 

 

 
 

 

Hotnte10353) wt
—

~—>

 

erg wun REMMI tpn i eto ema oe

3 March 1965

>

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMZHIP<©] Meeting, New York City, 19 February 1965

1. Meeting/Time/Place and Purpose: This meeting was
held in the offices 6 IP-I from 1350 to 1610 hours.
Purpose of tho meeting was to attempt to satisfy requirenenta
levied by Nestor Sanchez, WA/SA/SO, on events which too«
Place during AMTAIP-1'g sost recent sojourn in Europe (Januarye-
February 1965) in company with AMLASH-1, Meeting was algo
used to determine AMWHIP=-1'g willingness to Participate in the
“discord program" using UNSNAFU-19 as the unwitting recipient
of certain Fumors, the details, of which are covered in
subsequent paragraphs.

2. It wight be noted for the record that this seeting vas
@cheduled for the morning of 18 February, but due to
AMMHIP- missing the scheduled flight fron Miami, the meeting
Was postponed until the above time. .

Details of the Meeting

3. The following information on the various topics as
indicated concern besically those requirements which have
been intended for, and levied on, AMLASH-1, However, due to
the fact that ANWHIP-1 was together in Europe with AMLASH@=1,
AMVHIP@l was debriefed on the requirements on the eutside
chance that he might have Some complimentary information on then.

. @. Orlando Blanco, Cuban Diplomat in Bern, Switzerlend.
AWTHIP~1 wag unable to give any additional information on :
Blanco as he had not met the man in Europe and does not remember
having met him in Havana. (AMVHIP-1 stated that AHLASH-1
Claimed that he (AMNHIP-1) had in fact met Blanco a number
@f years ago in Havana, but AMWHIP Says he truly does not
remember the man.) He stated that any additional information
©n Blance would have to come from either AMLASH-1 or AUMLASH~-3,
In approaching Blanco for cooperation, AMWHIP strongly . :
Suggested that it would be best to use AMLASH=-3 for. the
initial contact. AMWHIP stated that BLANCO knew AMLASH-3 well
and that he was a. trusted representative (and therefore anti-
Castro) of AMLASH-1., AMWHIP-1 was told we were loosing into
Blanco and algo into QUHOPS~1, Attache Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

 

 

‘terrae.

 

 
74-00000

p poe
J3~ {. aod b
: Disclee
2. Cuban Air Force Comandante BICbOis. Regarding
DICLOIS who had allegedly arrived in Paria from Algeria during
the time that Sanchez and AMWHIP-1 were there, AMHHIP-1 said
that he did not know the man or did he have any information on
& Comandante with that name or a name that sounded lice that.
| He said that he had heard Something about a Comandante with a

 

strange name but he could not contribute more than that. He
Suggested that AMLASH~1 might be able to identify the man.

@. Security man with Che Guevara. AMVEIP=1 was
. asked if he had any Information on a man called "Bernis"
see eely one of the men who accompanied Che Guevara on hig
frican trip, and Probably also the one to China as &@ member of
shhts security force. AMVHIP said that the name did not register
© with hie and he had no other information to give. He again
Ze Suggested that AMLASH=-1 might be able to help. One thing snore es
>) AMMEIP. aaid.wag that he did not thins that any of Che's security ae
; ENS men were samed Bernis, and he thought this was not a correct ;
ior name. He did say, hovever, that while he was in Paris there had
. Pa been two security types there who were guarding two or three
iN" dar green trunzs about the Size of foot locsers and four or
five suitcases. AMWHIP said that they both had pistols, one a
Soviet machine pistol and the other a 32 calibre. AMWHIP does not
Yemember the exact date that they left Paris for Madrid but he
remenbers that the flight left at 4:50 im the afternoon and
toox place about two weeks ago (ca. 5 February). AMWHIP Says that
UNSEAFU-9 knows beth of these men and could be contacted for their
names and a better description. :

h. Carlos Franiui. AMWHIP-1 had no additional
~iafermetica on Frangui except to say that he «new he wag not
happy. He also believed that AMLASH-1 had additional information
on Frangui. : o- ~

1. B& L Locomotives. With regard to the requirements
concerning secuFIty measures on the shipment of locomotives to
additional information to
““" contribute. AMWHIP also stated that he had obtained no additional

information frou FISSOLA, the engineer concerned with the shipment,,

   

Sythe
2
g
°
>
E
=
ba]
B
oo
9
et
4
oe
i
4
r=
i=]
°

5 to, and the use of, these locomotives. AMHHIP stated that he
Fy thought AMLASH-1 might have some additional information. AMWHIP
E also stated that he thought “Americo" talis too auch and that

maybe "Mario" would be best to assist in the operation.
(Comment: See Ronis for further edification of the subject.)

<faipet

vas

byes:

Wie APRIL teem CTR Ti er ay ten cata ne

fps alin beaches

 

i
74-00000

ond =

J- AMLASH-1's Accommodation Address Arrangeaents.
AMWHIP-1 stated that he had reviewed accommédation addresses
with AMLASH-1 and had given appropriate instructions to
AUNHIP-2 in the event of the receipt of letters fron
Havana signed by AMLASH-1 or signed by a "Cuban" whoa
AMHIP=2 did not know. (Comment: it was a good thing ve
reviewed accommodation address with AMWHIP-1, see below.)
For the record AMLASH~1 will address his letters to AMWHIP=2
either in care of his business address in Rome which is:

or to AMTHIPK2's business address in Geneva (which incidentally

“ 4s identical with his home ad HIP=-2 operates in
Geneva from his apartment): Geneva, Switzerland.
(it should be noted that A ie in is to open a proper

office in Geneva in the near future. However, this is ao_
particular reagon for changing the accomodation address in
Geneva.) AMWHIP-{ stated that he had given the undersigned's
Postoffice box in Washington (William A. Thompson, P.O.

Box 7224 Apox Station, Washington, D.C. to AMMHIP-2, believing
that this would’ expedite our receipt of letters froa AMLASH-1l.
AMAHIP-l was told that his concern for rapid transaittal of
‘the letters was certainly appreciated, but that for security
Sake, it was much better that they be forwarded in a cover
envelope to AMVHIP's address in New Yorx City, preforably,
his busisess address. AMWHIP': was also told to remind
AMTHIP-2 that he ghovld handle the letters he received from
Havana as little as pessible and put them in cover envelopes
and send them as quic«ly as possible to AMWHIP-1 in New Yor
City. In this connection it resains the problem of obtaining
these letters on a expeditious basis when AHWHIP~1 is, for
example, out of town for a prolonged absence, It. is ~
suggested that William Thompson's accommodation business

in Washington be given to AMWHIP's father so that he any
forward AMVHIP-2'a letters to Washiagton without undue delay.
(This 1s an excellent example of a brea<down in compar tmentation
in Cuban operations.)

. k. Paris Embassy Personnel, According to a telephone
eall on 18 February from AMLASH-I in Paris, AMNHIP-1 stated
that AMLASH-1 had said that UNSNAFU-8 and, porhaps, UNSNAFU-9
would be out of jobs in the near future in accordance with
the present economy drive by the Cubans. AMLASH stated that
UNSNAFU-S most certainly would be ousted, while UNSNAFU-3's
case was more uncertaia.

.

So Tata alee Ne de tence netted tentnteepen oeeetenesnninsnnenttntntrnre nner eee
»

speetee ona

Yelena gear mye 9s = ler vo +

‘wooee corp lmesicne aie

Ea

 

co

 
