SECRET
WORKING PAPER --- DRAFT
Soft files :
Other stations
cl
Angleton .

Angleton’s liaison with FBI

Any Angleton-directed operations without station knowledge or inclusion

Angleton’s liaison with Office of Security

HTLINGUAL/Project Hunter -- ever used as an Agency communications link behind the
Iron curtain, utilizing-secret writing 2

Anything in the way of an Oswald file in CISIG

WH

How is WH organized, ho its files organized, how are the files inventoried, where and
how filed at HQ o

 

Project W-SAS (i.e., Cuba)
Are the files separate from WH in the 1961-63 time frame

Searches (How are they done in 1997 for 1963 operations?)
Vv Name files
+ Project files
Personnel Records
Reports by informants (i.e., June Cobb) -- centralized or separated between.two files: one
for source information and one for the information provided by the source?
Are records around a specific hit searched

 

Issues
Win Scott’s files obtained from his office or home in Mexico City. When gathered by
Angleton, where placed or how dispersed at HQ? How accounted for, any other
searches possible?
U-2 Files. Some reference by Bissell to false imanuals for an indeterminate use at an
’ unidentified era. (May be a DST issue.) . .

 

’ Accounting, especially for Angleton — how handled, how filed, how searchable?

David Atlee Phillips -- personnel file, other files?, how he wrote Nightwatch, where he
wrote it, was it written with agency and/or Colby support?

How many US penetrations of Soviet and/or Cuban facilities in Mexico City were there in

October 63, what type(s) -- electronic surveillance, teltaps, and/or penetrations? _

Identify all records facilities/organization thereof

 

2

WORKING PAPER --- DRAFT
SECRET

Friday, February 07, 1997
104-10333-10017

 

ws

- een MOK

SECRET
WORKING PAPER --- DRAFT

Talking Points for Files Briefing
for 12 February 1997

Perl i Jeremy Gunn and pursuant to discussion on 5 February 1997 between Gunn
an the following topics are requested for coverage in the “records briefing
iF

sch 01 ébruary 1997. More specifics it than covered in the Memorandum

 

for the Record dated 8 January 1997 by Harrelsoi It is NOT meant that the detail of the
question is the détail-of the briefing expected, that is, the questions are for the purpose of
identifying the types of files that may exist versus the expectation of a complete answer NOW.

 

The topics are not to be considered to be in any order of importance. Primarily the time frame of
concem is 1958-63. In some cases, it may mean proving evidence of “no records.”

 

 

Gunn further queried whether notes could be taken.

* Ok
DO Records Issues -

Current location of records -- HO iation -- where else? Gunn’s access
nd shelf lists’:

v Explanation 6! systems/indices/inventories/shelf lists for DO records -- how
searches are done,
V Accounting for destroyed records
Tracking cables and dispatches
V Is “doctoring” of personnel/201 files done? If so, why, when, and how? Could trace of an
' employee as such be obliterated -- i.e., could John McVickar ever have been an
employee?
Backchannel communications — how recorded or registered? Were such records searched
for inclusion in the JFK collection? ;

a as

Any DCI records in DO records?

Tape récordings of DDP offices, meetings; especially with regard to Helms. If done, where
filed, how identified, whether searched and included in JFK collection?

Any Bissell and Helnis files in DO records?

Vv Stations (location of records), what kept, where, for how long, records of destruction
’ Mexico City
Were any inventories created?
ce:
Staff D
Cuba projects
FBI liaison
Other US entity liaison

1

WORKING PAPER -- DRAFT
SECRET

Friday, February 07, 1997
