‘c

o%, oo.

 

\.AACHMENT

‘Edgar Anthony BUTTARI Puig (D.¥.¢.)

aka.- Edgar A, BUTTART (Doctor)
aka - Edgardo BUTTARI y Puig (201-276771)
Photo. available a Bo a

 

While information in his file does not indicate any-past or. ©
present CIA contact, there is unscurtsd information. in the
‘WH/COG card file which shows that BUTTARI was in touch with.

_ Frank Bender (Gerard Droller} in ‘Miani in the Spring of 1960, (°°
apparently in relation to BUTTARI's involvement with the So
Revolutionary Democratic Front (FRO). Currently BUTTART.is -.
involved in many business ventures in South Flecida and is 36.4
reportedly associated with Charles "Behe" Rebozo socially an
in business. we oo: Se as

  

 

 

 

 

Edgardo BUITARI was born 14 August 1909 {also given 1914) .
.8t West Tampa, Florida, the son of a Cuban who: fought in the
Cuban’ Independence War.’ Appointed Cuban Inspector Gemeral « -
Instructor of the Ministry of State in 1933. He later became
Under Secretary of Labor, In 1938 he returned to Cuba and
Served as Secretary of Commerce until 1940. fle later was appointed |
Minister of the Cuban Foreign Service. Appointed Minister of —
Commerce by Batista in 1942, he held that post until 2944 |...
» when he resigned to run for the House of Representatives, 9 0 0

‘Habana. He remained in the House of Representatives until 1952. °°

 

‘BUTTARI arrived in the U.S; in March 1969 to resi 2
Miami, Florida. He becamé involved with he Revolutionary °
Democtatic Front, Se . To To

   

During his first term as Minister of Commerce in 1538 he was-
esponsiblé for the arrest of. several Anerican representatives --
f large lard exporters in the U.S. (Swift, Armour, etc.) ot
y increasing prices. At the same time he endeavored to put ...
reward legislation of nationalistic tendencies, warning to
"Yankees Loperialism", and seemsd somewhat unfriendly to the ~
U.S. He later changed and in 1933 became more anxious to
cooperate with the U.S., apparently having gotten over his . :
cpenly anti-American feelings. However, he did not appear to..
be dependable according to Eabassy reports. He has been ce

described as astute, clever, intelligent but Slippery. He

 

 

 

 
a Nt ACH NENT D oe

Rolando Arcadio MASFERRSR Rojas (201-42669) +.

 

Former Cuban senator and self-admitted former Communist.”
Quite active during early 60's in various anti-Castro
ectivities in U.S, Recantly served four and ‘one-half year. ~
prison sentence received U.S. District Court £or- violation of
U.S. neutrality laws. - = . . oe

No indication Headquarters has been in touch with | 3 ubject,
at any time. | . _ ; ;

oo Born 1918 in Cuba; typifies worst elements in . former: regine ck
of Batista. . Name connotes ruthlessness, assassination, tortnre
- and extortion. . . ore . ee

 

Still considers himself to be a Marxian So

“yirulent critic of U.S. in past.

 

 

 

 

    
74-00000

2966. Amicably terminated 30 June 1368. As of July 1969
in Caracas, Venéezuala.. In December. 1969 he was deséribed ~
by a source as “one does not know where the biutt _begins and
end as, What is true. and what is Lie", -. si Ls

 

. -3 eae . : - soe

“Reinaldo prea Ramon - formerly AMICE- 31 (201- 284658)

POA. granted 414 October: 19653 as PM assat.° Nember’

’ 2596 Brigades, captured Bay of Pigs. Member of Prisoners

Commission sont by Castro to Miami to ne gotiate release

(of prisoners in exchange for mechanical equipment and other vs
' supplies needed bY Cuba. Defected and refused to accompany
- other menbers of Prisoners Commission on their. return to.

 

Cuba in July 1951. POA granted 15 June 1964 for use# aso
CA/Prop asset. SGSNIRLED 3-Octoaber 1964 -- OA 4 February -

 
   

 

 

 
74-0000

  

|| ATTACHMENT C

Orlando PIEDRA. es
' Grlando Blono. PIEDRA-NEGUERLA (291-247379).

aka - Orlando Eleno NEGUERLA-PIEDRA .
‘eka - Orlando PIEDRA oo. Se
aka - O. ROCA .

 

Born. 18 December 1917, Havana, Cuba.
Believed to be Cuban citizen currently

 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  

. Was Chief of Cuban Burea of Investigation in. Batista Uovérn-
_ taont. Told FBI June 1959 he was forced to leave Cuba upon fail
. of Batista, Réportedly head of anti-Castro group in Miani in
‘June 1559, In Sept 59 reported to ke friendly with Rolando
HASFERRER Rojas, ex-Cuban senator and publisher. PIEDRA.
_ reportedly furnished with money by Batista, 2-20.

 

 

_ During Batista regine was included with others aso )
responsible officials considered directly involved in torture. 7. -
and killing of Cuban citizens. Resided in Fort Lauderdale,
Fla, in February 1965. During Batista regime PIEDRA was in
‘Charge of ail matters pertaining to. gambling, ‘rackets and .

. contraband. In 1953 in Cuba PIEDBA-was also involved in ©
- business of Chinese contraband. ES Loe

- No indication he ever used by Agency.

  

 

   
74-0000

 

   

3. “GOTT LIEB apparently has current. ‘information on the -
.activities of the persons he mentioned; for example, he
knew that Juan A. PAULA was involved in the jewelry business ~ 9 2:
(PAULA and Antonio Felix GENOVA Corzo, a WH/Miami proprie tary
employee recently purchasad a jewelry business) and he knew Sat
that Reinaldo PICO had resided in Venezuela and had recently ~. <->
returned to the United States. The phone conversation lasted -
abotit 45 minutes and GOTTLIEB told VIERA that af he. came to

Miami they would have clench together. : a
fe

4. VIERA. ‘does not know GOTTLIEB ut tatked“S to him because
-GOTTLIES said he was recommended by(Erieste BETANCOURT Who — -

. has resided in the Washington area for more than ten yéars.-—

. . oF (BETANCOURT was a former Agency asset and is currently Chief of
; The conversation was |.
nitially in English but continued in Spanish. VIERA said he
‘provided no information te GOTTLIEB on the basis. that he is a
‘Cuban exile and did not want to get involved in internal U.S.
affairs. We-do not know why GOTTLIEB was interested in Joaquin.
SANJENIS or Juan A. PAULA. ~{Attached are SummRaT reat we

Of personas: of interest to GOTTLIEB. ). ; ol oo
8. On 7 May 1973 | Chief, Gene 2) was 7
briefed on the. substaice of the report from *NH/ Mima pertsining
toa Juan A. PAITLA who. works for th
| which utilizes
TAC aS Office space cover. Among OThEeT duties perrorned by

. the proprietary ara the monthly checks sent toe the dependents

. o£ imprisoned assets which are Signed in true name by PAULA.
eas unaware that PAULA had purchased a new jewelzy “os

usiaess in association with Antonio GENOVA; however, he feels a:
that (MHMUTUAL) is protected and compartnented from the WH/Miami |. .
propristary and he has the utmost confidence in the proprietary’:
being able ta field any questions OGHUTUAL) communication with -
ov the propristay 34 is by unlisted phone and a post office box...
said that and jeouta possibly be Linked.

ut the trail would end there. He -
feels that either prop etary could only be. linked to the “Agency

“oly innuendo. {He did say that Howard HUNT was aware of .
MEMUTIL hen 4} : VCA/EUI 1

rar a and
concernsa, zy

   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

     

 

 

  

¢ UblpV
 

‘0g 10095-10002

 suBgncr _(: -Medis Inquiry to Cuban Exile Journalist in

Te geitameterimere

 

 
 
    

8 MAY 37g

   

. i

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations ee
. Niami re Cuban Involvement in Watergate -
Case and Attitudes in Miani Area Te

1. This memorandum is for your information only, . |

2. On 7 May 1973 we were advised. by Stetion WH/Miami that ~ °~.

“two employees of a Station WH/Miani proprietary had stold the

tation that one Rene VIERA Gonzalez, a Cuban exile Journalist

"Who writes for Diario Las Americas and owns the Westchester

. Mall Bookstore In Miami received a call in early May from. one

_ ENU GOTTLIEB who said he worked for tha Times in Washington. .

(GOTTLIEB is believed to be Sanford GOTILTE3, 13192 Brandywine

‘St., Kensington, Md. who was formerly an'employee ofthe.
' National Committee on Sane Nuclear Policy". -A pretext call t

the Washington bureau of the New York Tines verified: that one

' "Sandy" Gottlieb was employed there. OTILIEB asked VIERA
‘what people in Miami were Saying about the Watergate’ case: and ;

_ What participation the Cubans had in it. He specifically

B RN I
Dekeroung Uc cla
°° Not Repro ony
a van meer “

asked about the activities Of Reinaldo PICO (former 2506
Brigade member), Orlando PIZDRA (former Chief of Cuban Bureau
(former Cuban Senator and self-admitted former Communist).

ie also asked if ITT had an office in Miami, whether Joaquin -
SANJENIS Perdome (former Chief of a WH/Hiami proprietary who
Was amicably terminated in 1372) and Juan A. PAULA (former
WH/Miami proprietary employee dnd former Controller of - a
Revolutionary Democratic Front-FRD-and currently employed by |
an OGC proprietary) were still in the Miami area, He was also
interested in Edgardo BUITARI, a Cuban born in West Tampa,

of Investigation in Batista Government), and Rolando MASFERRER -

‘Florida, a former Cuban Congressman and Minister of Commerce

who is reportedly associated With Mr, Charios "Bebe" REROZO.
cording to GOTTLIEB, BUTTARI was appointed as "political .
chief in the Republican Party", ; so, .

 

    
74-0000

 

 

a . .: a a] - om i toe aed aug . : ; ; ; os
Tg, entioned that the bona fids law firm occupying °
‘the other’ portion of the(NHMUTUAL) offices are the attorneys
fo (Thess lawyers, are ed and witting.) on
One SF the lawyers told’ that will be the “biggest
-Canary singer of the year". The common receptionist area is
manned by GEUTUAD) employees who also menitor all ¢elevh .
calls, incoming and outgoing for the other law fim [|
Hentioned that thare have been aumerous calls from tha wears ot
' and outgoing overseas calls to such places as Japan and Europe,

 

 

7. ili be traveling to Nassau and returning -via 2,
Miami off May 19735. He intends,;to talk with his proprietary —.
.'. people at that time on other GuEUTUAD business and will aiso © |
_.ontact COS, WH/Miami. (The COS has been alerted t® expect. .-
‘@ cali from EVANS on 29 May 1973.) ete cee :

  
  
  

   
  

Janes E. Flannery .. i S

. James EB: Flannery .
Acting Chief ~~.

_ Western Hemisphere Divisi

 

on

   

 

-. er Director of Security

Attac

anents: A-F Biographic Sumaaries

 

 

 

 
01

 

a

 

Rene VIERA Gonzalez

Reporter for Diario Las Americas:

>
Journali sm in Bxile at: meeting held

Miami June 1957.

 

‘Was speaker for

Flagler Theater

Had also been head of Public Relations for Cuban. -)

National Bank, Date not given.

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
