74-0000

 

tle Qf provineial or even puritanteal in making moral judgments on cthers,
even while obviourly exposed to morai eritieisn hingeif, Re deseribed the
bes. ef his ‘Bother 's condition as having EER been a ‘real ehock to him,

. ted this seers consistent ufta hie tendency to eritietes drunkenness, bad

Janguage, elipshod’ work, and so forth in others, He tonmented, rather

spprovingly, that Soviet ehildren really mind when they are seolded by

total strangers, whereas Anortean children (he thought) would not. 4

beat expect. that he would be a good reactor whan subaitted te a polye

_ aph. Perhaps because EX he had already been queationed for Several

Ce he seemed to be little guarded and juupy, espesially when any

pts BY questions seened to stray from the subject of Soviet publis attitudes.

P the other hand, he volunteered Py quite a few remarks about his own

pase, bie own problems, He appeared to be worried about his chances of

finding & jod, and mentioned that one old friend (who had stuek by bin

bas the way®) was trying to help hin in this,

ke When the time eame for ma to depart, ies when I had asked all the
estions T aould think of, he eeked ‘¢ anything further was to happen

that day, I said that all T knew was shat you hed told us when you left,

that there was nothing further set up, and that Z could Simply leave when

funtaned. He offered ma a drink, whieh I declined, seying I wanted to get

Hone. Y think he rather enjoyed the interview, or at least WE the chance

to spout off his view, As my memo indieates, I was impressed by his

arte Sculatenesa, which probably resulted fron his saying things he had

thought out and prepared himself to say. I did not really arose-question

hin, in the sense of trying to, eateh hin ait, or probing his om Rotivesg

he was willing to run on and I was willing to let hia, asking new questions

whan he had said all he sould on old ones »
 

Se tebt ea wa

me Tle ~ Cae tag ll a

   

ae Nghe af tle merge
ra a? aoe Pane a ana zecect Chengts

“Po 8 Pldar tease mae ee gwen oeir-ak coverage
tet: lS weet, ae. wire be Rte sation .

  

Mati Mert ace. be elects ows Galt, the

TE 6 Oe AT BB. tee Cod eg ERS
Ted we ote me, Orer witha aay, : 2 os

ind xubey ceded te “geet
NT bre tee mane rviters vere Ret watching. sranthe last

 
  
 

 

 

+ BAS 8Je Ore ER ORS 6 dost

+ Bae chowte woul! be wit le te gut out Work paedet to mabe a

Sm bi yarete .

3. Paaavi cd dete, The ccviet people are conscious of
Cat bv ron eat te tools ate. deed of ving Wace Sinlte’s deagh,

10. Talal aves. “ebses 2! gag bea Weve thos there was
OOF Rw es me Olek Me ei aw. eee TAVig @2hko ORs tee regt cf the
avalom, SvEt gadget 24 od dette Cort Telawer ene heed,

V ELE UML oe cepere ie gactal threvage. “} i perty
Seb a ee Re 2S red fea the rem of the peeper, Webster
ha ori t WA patty Vectiotate ee thoy reales! new

alia alow waa,

reetgt betmwtor, steak ae wewtalier, Vabetre wae
ew bcs. ea ded by rus oeevsteice ad Avmvkaee ee bx
lath, PCa ebas es be pees A ceserson yractice
atti of yeton ts
a whe come to “yo in
ldtng and drink It ep.
iteviet bnew tor r Vide 24 266 tne! Lectivg, Lenwage
he green gz cy Crwhe, Fak Passer G4 ust tink tht tore wag
wetses!l f9litisa ba eenmal eectel contacts, Cov erample tu the
ttreedg CRP By

12. Western tacts. Ouce he int aaciéed te vedelect, — -
< eheter spent a CE There Becaplas to western racks breads
18023, 49 well 28 rete: s Laglsh-tmguase heca, oiic were

theoke bem appeal Bursiy iz Leaingyat, Le conk! bear the

 

         
  

 

 

attiaa isognage brasdcasts, tet all huseian laacreage

3e
Sie ches than tle Yi" oie, iwchnot tary weered
(te dboit re 4 not memion dace Literty. }

ATO ALS iE «any ed these are second-rate,
art pt Ps Une eb ba canting frag
la ort) Eales to the aed, A st abiteant welaerity are
tatrenety leer rested 25 al} bods of Aron zien wate, og they

<__ SEGRET

 

   

    

 
(roe-totea-ioo7s}.

 

IRIGE “fr Owheteficg of Secefactes fren the VSse

<a 19 Sety 182, woderstned was able (throurk che courte sy

of 3h Livision) to meet and cabrie? Dar WEBSTER, am American
redete:ta: Wao left the USE! fast May, Webster {2 » pistes .
encingar who want e@'a guide ta-the Solmindks Fair de 1959, Cel? fa
lowe Wiib-e casclen girl, and defected to ve with her, sitasagh
be had a wile aad faniicy inthe US, According te W eboser*
story, be cectded te redeioct whire te lnarned thas bie sostang

° had oadia 763-e-cmental brsakiiren, pre cera ahty cearad by Ma
cSiection, Ne ales states inet bo eas “perme sick” und clades g

  

cated,
ie camtacts wars chtely wich fellow werhara aad hee mi oteeae's
aactsLetecls, Onsations (rem mcers¢o4 were.chhefie da:
te alii tt infey. sates om carvers cavkel aietsg, W ebawe's views
a2 varlows Soviet ettliucas are ro; artes holow. : :
i. Eoytes ckrar ty} series. Sovtet eldiones ware
aware af the teriaa, but bare no detalles,

2. ARS tele towards Aeris f. Littls ee ca hoetiiisy
to Americus people, wao are taved tdisled by tiady ralers,

3 eitineds senerds Corr $. Fear and distrusty many :
Leatagraders alii romenGer the stece, of courant, Webster -
Wat strongly cengctogs ef bulltvs tn aat-Geresa propegasda

ove? the leet segs,

i. Artinada ¢oerart9 feae, Websior waa very conscious
of wide spewad aa -cemidsn seven adhe beKiores was emeg
For oe in Fear? Breas ia ting US, but which hee largely
Clanppeared bere, ihceeur inelductally, dere net sppesg

* to be dewleh bimaed, }

5. Apiimse tox mares Negenes, Webster mad there ware
afew negroas ia Leciograd! he sare of no instances ed emt .
nacte {seling, .

& Atitele on reNeiey, Heltgian hag lacpely dleagpaared
&tong the younger geserciians tha old pacsly gacastimea #tiG

ge te church.
ecpreT
wows

wee a

NTO CIA
erreurs Use Only
“Do Not Reproduce
14-00000

J Cease

Wma Jith,

: wats, Webeter trike ty tas stray fae

 

Sad peewlor dines
© Ga Clee Sue fect of
& Fes8 on td conse.

te, Alte on jo Fat Ya deter and Hs wrletss<g
foek « bee tris p53 & Bho He was ierreesed With the
contre Sears tor a repeblics and ae mee ead save tat
Snot toe Soy Se ¢ foe? but cis che te stores
fice profercece a those e a local. oF ty

and whe sre poles v2 8S Gitico pe te oak

1S. Pusteract, Sica” Gs Sait! Sheet Sowtat wows ot
Pastoraak tad Dr. _z rote : thee 3 acne
forte werg Bét ¢ Esters ier literary

Since Webster apyearsd t be quite ¢
perhepe tae mi gizine article, Ra sald

 

Ned
: . CA/PROF/ag
CA/Ts pagande | P35 duty An)
&i-¢ ve/e
Orig t > Beactes (ca/s
BS Sn coeens

ors

. By a . 4 Seale gard as sal
im tf he had saebdered writtce. Bis exp: igexea for putNention,
2a ms: ie ea Ghat be hed dormer et,

woe i

6K
74-0000

, Oo . @é SECEET

Tes Rudy Balaban

‘ :

t

Froms Red Bennett
boot yu Bed)
\ Subjects Dax ter

Referense: Attached meger nad for the reeords telephone donversation of
! this date. /, .
| St pe ‘)
" Lan sorry te say that, beeause of a deadlins I had to mest, the namo
. or the reeord was not written until Several days after ny meetingE with
. pbdonte It may be ineorreet on seme detalles of W's history, which you
° : vould of sourse know ali sbout, if the stary in the first paragraph does
pot perfeetly mateh what W, has told you, the feult is prolably mine, not
va you might ell we if you see any KIIMIKE inconsistensies,
on Soviet attitudes
t Generally speaking, the information ¥, Bave,does not seen to ne ine
donstotent with what I heve seen from other sourees, On the questions

!
of sosial frietion and religion, his reply was more "pro-Soviet™ than

, information RE froajother eourees. On the other hand, his answers on
intinSenttdan and his etatementa on drunkenness certainly did not east
Ly very favorable IXX light ‘on Soviet soelety. (ne interesting answer
dnten I negleeted to ineiude in my memo indieated the sontiming existence
of pro-Stalin sentiment,
« In the first paragraph of the memo, I state that W. seemed *poll tiealas
° or ideologieally unsophiaticated.” It probably would have been more correct
tc say that he was uninterested, or uneonnitted, rather than EXEERE unsophisti=
‘ented, though that wes also true, Gueh negative references as he made to.
Soviet ideas (and there wers not many such references ) peened a little ine:
tended to satisfy me; they were msinly made {n the first part of the inters
view, before any Fapport was established, If he was unhappy in Leningrad, °
it seened to bs because he felt himself an alien, and because he was hone.
edek tor the good cld USA, not becoure there was anything wrong with Com ‘
munien, or anything good about American political institutions, He pre=

rented himself sorewiet as the ordinary guy who tries to get along; a lite,

By
a aes
Th eww ial
