74-0000

CONFIDENTIAL

a

The other item has to do with the so-called "201 file" of a
Cuban citizen, and in addition a Covert Action operation directed
against several persons, including the subject of the file in question.
The activity transcends the time period of the death of President
Kennedy, its results evidencing themselves subsequently over the
ensuing year and more. The nature of that operation has been
described to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell. It is unusually sensitive,
the focus of which is well beyond the subject of your inquiry.

We engaged in discussions with Mr. Cornwell, trying in good
faith to arrive at a procedure whereby your staff could have access to
relevant materials, and at the same time limit the unnecessary
exposure of operational activity that is both sensitive and unrelated to
your inquiry. At Mr. Cornwell's request,. we took sections of the
history designated by him and made them available for review, with
knowledgeable officers present to discuss with him any questions that _
may arise from his review. Similarly, at Mr. Cornwell's directions,
we provided the material from the 20] file of the individual of interest
to your Committee for the period 1 September 1963 through 31 January
1964. Mr. Cornwell was able to review these various materials only
hurriedly on 18 August, and were to be reviewed by him further on his
return from Dallas.

On 22 August Mr. Blakey came to review these materials. He
declined to review the history on the grounds that he should see it all.
Further, Mr. Blakey rejected the principle of any limitation on review
of the 201 file of the person in question. He also insisted on seeing the
separate operational files as well, although advised that the activity was
unusually sensitive and not germane to the subject of your inquiry. In
essence, this appeared to negate the progress made to date. However,
on 23 August Mr. Blakey returned to the Agency and reviewed the sections
of the history selected by Mr. Cornwell. A staff investigator accompanied
him and read the 201 file for the period January 1963 through May 1964.

In the absence of any statements on the subject we are left with the
impression that the issue is siill unsettled. :

As you know, your Committee has been afforded unprecedented
access to the files and information of this Agency. However, the handling
of materials is subject to their bearing on the authorized study and
 

 

104-4 0446-10008

UURFAD AL

ER 7&-2313/2

 

OLC 78-3016

25 AUG 1978

Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman
Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

Subsequent to our telephone conversation on 16 August, at
which time you informed me that subpoenas had been voted by the
Commiitee for four items of information, the matter has been the
subject of exchanges between your representatives and mine. I
assume that your staff has now made you aware that one of the items
had been reviewed by one of your staff representatives the morning
of the day before you told me the subpoena was voted. Another was
for a memorandum that cannot be located, apparently missing from
a file that previously had been reviewed by your representatives. I
assume these do not pose a question. The other two items, the subject:
of this letter, appear to have developed into a different problem.

One of these two remaining items deals with a history of the
Mexico City Station, covering the period’ |to 1969. That history
contains only a few pages of reference to the short visit of Lee Harvey
Oswald to Mexico City, and to related subsequent events.. These
pertinent pages have been reviewed by your representatives. Other
than these few references the balance of the history deal i
operational and management developments:
subject matter not related in any way to the objectives of your inquiry.
In its entirety it constitutes a highly sensitive collection of operational
and organizational information, involving intelligence sources and
methods, that should receive the most restricted handling.

 

 

 

Claszitied by 13190

Exempt from generat
Seclassitication schedule ef E.0, 11457
tion ectegery S3(1}, > (3)
ccally declacsilied on

  

Date Impossible te Datermiae

COUFIGENT IM 22326
74-00000

investigation, subject, of course, to considerations of sensitivity.
Until your subpoena, we were unaware that there was a problem
different from any number of daily working problems encountered

in this inquiry. In fact, as noted, on two of the issues addressed by
the subpoena your representatives already had reviewed available
material. Subsequent to that, the rather detailed exchanges between
your representatives and mine had appeared to have been entered into
in good faith, and we had proceeded accordingly.

I trust that we will have the opportunity to discuss this candidly
rather than under the conditions resulting from the subpoenas voted
by your Committee. Please let me know: when you return to Washington
so we can discuss further how we might handle the matter.

4

STANSFIELD TURNER

 

ec: Honorable Richardson Preyer
Honorable Samuel L. Devine

Distribution:
‘Original - Addressee
~ DCI

- Mr. Shepanek
~ SA/DDCI
- OLC Subj
1 - OLC Chrono
OLC/SDBreckinridge:baa (24 Aug 78)

Psd feed eek fed fed fe feed bd ed
t
3

CONFIDENTIAL
