~2-

SUBJECT: Watergate File Research - Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is no other employee assigned to my immediate
office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and
personals ities. .

Robert E. Owen
Chief, _0PS/0SG

   

 

 
 

[toe-tova3-100g7]

a

9 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO : .
SUBJECT : Watergate File Research - Final Report

1. The files of the immediate office of the Chief, OPS/0SG
‘have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this

memorandum. The check included chronological files =f ray
cations of which I was the author while assigned t :
in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found. |

 

2. I have attempted to recollect any other details which foo
conceivably could b inent and which relate to the period ss;
of my assignment a The only points which I recall but whe

-on which I have no documentation are these: ; So

a. There were occasional oshing “inquiries made of 1 me |
by American residents of about the reported presence

in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was
that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record,

at no time did Hunt contact. me, and I have never known of his
having tried to contact any Station personnel ing during .
the period 1970-73. I made no effort personally to ascertain . -
whether or -not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by i
any. Station member. a oe oe

“b. A Stationofficer, poset ——2- I] no now
"assigned — was given some information by ci.
informant in 1972 coricerning reported activities in Spain
by Robert Vesco. I suggested that the information be given :
informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John = 2.2.
Oliver.. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of -..

- developments related to Vesco. The Station did not pursue <=
that subject, as I recall, because it was not a topic of an
reportable interest, according to requirements of the period. co

 

  

RETURN TO CA
Background. Use Only
Do Not Reproduce’ .

   

   

E2 IMPDET oe
@. oO > CL.BY 056759

 
