To: John P.
Responses to your questions on DCI Morning Meeting Minutes
1. Chuck does not see the need to coordinate DCI Bush's

memo to DDCI; however, it does contain ¢
Inouye. If we want to cover all bases,

 
 
 

2. We assum is an Agency employée- “Should be
protected. recognize his name.

3. The reference to Wise's book would constitute "official
acknowledgment". It will require a bit of research to
determine what they were referring to.

4. Re copyright issue, still waiting on Batinger to get
back to me.

5. the comments on de Morenschildt's mental state was
released in the Oswald 201.

6. Vincent Thill retired overt (see attached card); I am
also checking with OS.

7. dames O'Connell was exposed in Peter Wyden's Bay of
Pigs; I am checking with OS.

8. Regis Blahut - released in gEK material; we coordinated
with SO at the time.

9. Re LBJ Library document, I will check with Pittman.

YSN VN\ YS
13-00000

_ awh 4 SSB) PS

fo fo pes WE one mune EODEE
— plbenuttbeese Corona PE? Opa?

ee, ve | > - ae

£ DAB. <a Le 7 :

 

 

pepe ee ese
3 / tev = << Cy)

~ Dee we AL TEL?)

Y AS Jen ve Zk pean 2

Ss. Bo ag? ho Dave eh Lf lneF oe.
laut ase peat BFS (prninzy D

C BRAS Sime sopGgyne UirT Bet
heal ne,powe

a / § Jes De OF SG Gp B.
- flac Tre ace

a LB. Abesy Re LES a ve van
 

_ been a member of the original

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

26 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

‘state Meeting Minutes of 26 July 1978.

’. . .
The Director was on leave; Mr. Carlucci was testifying on the Hill;
Mr. Blake chaired the meeting. .

A oe
Mc. Blake asked Hetu to explain the disturbing ABC story emanating
from Havana. Hetu said that ABC reporter Reynolds called him and said
that as part of Cuba's 26 July celebration, a double agent will march in
a parade and appear at a press conference, saying that CIA tried to prove
that Cubans were involved in President Kennedy's assassination. .Castro
also plans to announce CIA activities in Africa to track the Cuban presence
there. Hetu told Reynolds that he hesitated to comment at the present time
but the charge regarding the Kennedy assassination was ridiculous. {

McMahon summarized an FBI report that a Cuban Intelligence Service
official has been in contact with an unidentified journalist in connection
with the World Youth Festival now taking place in Cuba. The journalist
stated that the festival will include a.tribunal that will condemn CIA.
activities throughout the world. It will also reveal the above-mentioned
charge that the CIA tried to prove Cuban involvement in President Kennedy's
assassination. Former CIA agents will be revealed as well as proof of CIA
activities in Africa. This report also mentioned that a press conference
will be held.

. Greaney (for OGC) added t on 21 July an OCC representative pai Sy?
off a former agent in New roche had been in prison in cuba she nod 1
th o£ July Movement and se o have
become extremely radical and bitter. Greaney said that he would not be

surprised if this individual appeared at any of the above-mentioned

activities.
OZ.’
Last EMAg-

AK OT 3.

~
. ,
DS Sergt TS

~

“. Blake reported that the Senate Select Committee
N intends to talk to Treasury officials re possible. Customs
involvement in the New Orleans mail intercept activity.

Tk Tans wt
DFR ne bed

ta i jet Chak - Pie,

daperte

>
>)
3

‘, The Director referred to the CIA/Oswald story carried.
|. in the 23 September Baltimore News American and asked that
) in lieu of issuing a press release an appropriate letter to
the paper be prepared (see Morning Meeting Minutes of
24 September).
Sune UAT yous in Mb

DCI noted high-level concern about the book on the "Bay of
Pigs" and the book on the "Invisible Government". :

DCI noted an opinion that the book by Thomas Buchanan about
President Kennedy's assassination seems to be receiving wide accredita-
tion in Europe.

er Pe 2
2M Seah 75

Ny, Warner referred to Justice's willingness to retain
counsel for Angleton and Ober and stated that he is drafting
a letter for the Director to send to Justice on the legal
representation in both civil and criminal cases.

TE due
"

Cause Grea

yc assessed

NS

-_ ?
Soy.
eA

: Berend called attention to a false story carried in

\ the 23 September Baltimore News American alleging that
working levels of the CIA were aware two months before the
JFK assassination that Oswald planned to kill President
Kennedy but did not report this information up the line.
General Walters asked Berend to draft a statement of denial
for public release.

 
13-00000

25 Sept 1975 - The New Orleans mail intercept operation was
of interest to the HSCA investigation and has been mentioned
in our files. The item refers to the Senate Select
Committee and it is doubtful if it is JFK related. Eatinger
says it is our call.

26 July 1978 (memo for the Record) - Eatinger was not
comfortable with our deletion [ ]; he has originally
proposed to release. I recommended that we at least delete
the word prison. There may not have been many women in
prison with that background.

 
(10334-10303)

SECRET

17 Aug 1994

Memo to: C/HRG

Subject: Status of DCI Morning Minutes

Following covers both your questions and Bob Eatinger's
notes on a number of items. Per Jim Pittman, he did not
follow up on Eatinger's questions.

C/HRG questions:

1. 10 Aug 1976 - DCI Bush's letter re meeting with Senators

Baker and Inouye. FYI copy faxed to OCA (contact)
| 37912)

 

2. 24 Aug 1976 - per Office of Security, protect

 

 

 

 

retired in cover status, was NOC in Vietnam:

 

 

3. 12 Nov 1976 - The David Wise book mentioned in the

imutes deals with (he bugging of the. Chilean Embassy in
Washington} not the Kennedy assassination. Recommend we
drop the item as not. related. The note on the page is
Eatinger's. (copy attached)

 

 

4. 28 June 1976 - Re the copyright question; Eatinger says
to postpone the item until the Board makes a ruling. The
law is gilence on copyright issue. We will describe the
document on the withdrawal sheet so researched can request
directly from CBS.

6 & 7 3 March/25 Sept. 1978 - Per Office of Security,
Vincent Thill and James O'Connell are releasable.

9. Attachment #2 (LBJ Library) - Per. Pittman, these
documents were Not part of the Morning Minutes file. His
staff remembered them from a FOIA; they probably exist
somewhere in the DCI files. Do we include as part of this
package or assume we will see again when we go to the
Presidential Libraries?

Eatinger's notes (attached):

4 May 1964 - since we are treating "anti-Castro" activities
as related, leave the reference to books in.

24 Sept 1975 - Eatinger is having the cages searched in OGC
files for relevance to JFK.
I> Noy HG

~~
Falkiewicz noted his expectation that Ron Kessler's article on
President Kennedy's assassination will appear in the 14 November Wash-

ington Post.

~

Bolten called attention to today's Washington Post article about
David Wise's book {attached) and stated his belief that it contains details

which were not included in the Senate's published report. It was agreed
that this material was deleted from the Senate report and that Wise's

account is correct? In response to the DDCI's query, Bolten stated that
we had not had prior word of the Wise book.

 

 

3

{FOR een ye covey
13-00000 . -- ..-

ARTICLE APPRARELY

ON PAGE ‘An/

FBIBugging
Of Chilean

Offices Told
Book Says Hoover
Forced CJA to Halt!
Surveillance in “72 -

+
4 : : :
-By George Lardner dr.‘ - |
‘Washington Fox Atais Writer

The FBI reluctantly bugged the
Chilean Embassy in Washington
during the Salvador Allende re-
gime and then forced the Central!
Intelligence Agency to agree to
end the surveillance, according to:
a forthcoming book about the U.S.
intelligence community.

The late FBI Director J. Edgar Hoo-
ver stepped“ the bugging in Febru-
arg of 1972 by threatening to tell Con-
gtess that it was being done at the!
CIA's insistence, author David Wise |
reports. a aa

According to the account in Wise’s
new book, “The Amertean Police
Stee": ae mo .

Hoover initially retused to install,
the eavesdropping equipment when
the CLA first requested it in mid-April
of 1971; A-few days later, however,
then-CLA ‘Director Richard Helms
went over Hoover's head and gor At-
torney General John N. Mitchell to
reverse the FBI director's decision. —

“The CLA delivered sophisticated
bugging equipment to the FBI three
Jays later, apd between April 27 and
mid-May, the FBI got into the em,
bassy and installed several mikes.” |

For more than eight months, the)
government listesed in to. conversa:/
trons taking place inside the embassy, ,
Wiee reported. The Chilcan ambaséa-!
dor.to the United States at the time |
«as Otiande Leteller. who was assas- |
sineted here Sept. 2), 1078, when al
bomb blew upthe cat he was driving i
a short distance. from tne’ embassy"!
building. . +. - ed -

 

 

 

 

 

mca ted

 

yround early Pebdruary af 1972. |

aver threatencd to blow the whisile.
The FBI director.may have been “sell
amarting over being reversed by Mit: }
enell.” Wise wrote, but he added fn |
telephone interview that he did not
know why Hoover chose tu. give the;
ultumatum when he did.

in any esae, Wise said. clus CIA
documents about-the episod, the ClA
caved in promptly and hastily asked
that the eavesdropping ba stopped. -
Aceordingly. On Feb. 3, 1972. “the FBL
cither ‘vent in and pulled out the min.
lature transmitters ur turned them off
by remote control.” -

Hoover died on May 2% 1972. Less,
than two weeks later, on the weekend;

” af May 13-15. the Chilean embassy waa)

burglarized in a erime that persistent
rumors have attributed to cae or
more of the Watergate burglars but
that stall remains unsolved .

In ies investigation of the embassy
break-in, the book discloses, the FBI
was unable to question 2 potentially
important witness in Miemt who had
reportedly told an FBI informant that
one of the Watergate burglars wus in-
volved. The potential witness. @ Cu:
nan exile in Miami, was murdered ta
the spring of 1074. apparently shortly:
after the bureau had set out to ques: |
tloa iim but before they managed to
locate Aim. | on '

‘According to Wiae, the Chilean em:
bassy waa not only burglarized but lt
was also bugged once again efter.
Hoover's death. According to CIAy
documents, he said. the agency asked!
the FBL to “reinatitute coverags” on”
Dee. 8.2872. # step that the State De-'
partment also “strongly urged.” :

This "time, the Hoover-less FEL up-;
‘parently gompitéd without ~ ‘pentest. |
“By the day after Christmas [1972), che|

   

~, se! R ’

“ee

bugs were broadcasting again alt!
though there is some evidence,” Wise:
writes, “they may have been turned

of or removed ayain in February!
|

1973."

Voiclng some skepticism about the
apparent lack of any electronic gur-
veillence for some 30 months In 1972, '
Wlse added that “the chronology ts al-—
moat too good to be true, for it has
both adencies messing around with
the Chilean embassy at airmost every
time except several months on either
side of the May 1972 date.” :

The President of Chile during the.
period in question, Salvador Allende,|
was a Marxist whose 1970 election the
CIA had tried to block on President
Nixon’s orders. The plan failed, but;
the CLA spent $8 million between 1870:
and 1973 to undermine Allende, He:
died in a military coup that brought:
down his government in September.)
1973. ws :

In other disclosures, the book.

“quotes former Nixon. White House '
alde John D. Ehrlichmon’s vivid recol ‘
tections of an Oct. 1, 5969, dinner at
Hoover's home that Nixoo attended
along with Enrlichman and Attorney
General Mitchell. a

_ That alght, Wise said Ehclichman ;
told him, “for hours, Hoover regaicd'
us with stories of ‘black bag’ jobs.‘
haleraising escapes, snd 30 on.
“Wondertul.’ the President. xept yay-
ing, ‘How about that, John?” :

.
