74-00000

 

Page Two
#210 838

k, The cover story to be used by Agent during
the installation is that he is working on the house at the es ry]
o

 

request of the leasore Was on al estate agent, Mri |
| .

 

the house for a New York iaiyer 4 in order to billet the latter's
transient clients, Case Officer MATT has engaged a maid to
clean up the house Mondays radays; however, she can be
told to stay away if Agex needs te do work there on
those days. It was also discreetly requested by the undersigned
of Case Officer MATT not to kibbits too mich while the technie
clans are making the installation.

5. It is expected that the audio results of this type
of coverage will be superior to the results of the previous

“padio" phase. The only complication will be in servicing the
recorders on a timely basis.

Ramon R. Hart

ee: J#252 529 -

i
i
I

 
 

‘toa t0110-40049
a SECRET _

18 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM : Mr. Ramon R. Hart
SUBJECT : Mamel F, ARTIME Buesa
#210 838

1. The first phase of the audio surveillance of the
Subject at the SAS safehouse in Bethesda has been completed.
The Subject left Washington, D. ¢., o 13 July 1963. (The
owner of the listening post, Mr Q4es
moved out of his house, bag, baggage, and furniture, on
12 July 1963 enrouts to an overseas PCS assignment.

2. Mr. Charles MATT, the case officer in this case, has
advised that the Subject, along with a Cuban companion, Mr. :
Rafael Aurelio QUINTERO Ibarbia (#252 529), will return to oof
Washington, D. C., ta be billeted in the Bethesda safehouse on |
Monday, 29 July 1963. Mr. MATT has fervently requested audio ; ant
coverage of the downstairs bar and telephone and the main floor . ‘
living room at this house in order to monitor the Subject's
conversations with QUINTERO during the absence of SAS case
officers.

2
3. The case assigned to the/ District Field Office,
and Special Agent s designated as responsible
agent. It is Agent to place microphones in the
downstairs bar and the main floor living room and a tap on the
telephone and string all the wires to a crawl space over the
garage. In that latter space, which will be kept locked, he will
set up two regular AC-operated tape recorders to be actuated by
the two VOR's obtained from Franconia and paid for by SAS. Un+
beknown to the Subject and his companion, a case officer will
have to service this equipment whenever an opportunity presents
itself.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

29  ~ RETURN TO CIA
' . “we, 30 Only
th, is 7 OdueD

    
