13-00000

<Be

then CSWAID. Mexico Station has, to date, found mo pictures of
. (SHAD entering the Soviet or Cubes Esbessy.

3. The search did reveal more data from techaiesl operations,
hovever. This information, which comes in in great masses, had not
ose veen previously asscclated with OSWALD becsuse his neme ie not
actually mentioned in it, but the subject mtter shows it is about
him, end our expert monitor says the voice ic identical with the

 

votee of 1 Ogtcber know to be OSWALD's.
4k, This further technical informetion covers a round-robin of

telephone calls and visits which OSWALD made to the Soviet and Cuben

Exbassies in Mexico City between 27 Septeuker and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on hie travel in end out of Mexico

MURAD bythe Ui Br Ceadte ta: ae

Mexican Immigration Service records.

5. In brief, all this information shows that Lee Harvey OSWALD
entered Mexico (apparently by car) at Nuevo Leredo on 26 Septexzber
1963, claiming be was a photographer, Living in Bay Osleans and bound
| for Mexico Gity. On 27 Septenber he was in Mexico City phoning the

Soviet Exbassy to ask for a visa so he could go to Odessa, USSR. On
26 Septexber, he was at the Cuban Embassy, and Silvia DURAN, a Mexican
_ Employee of the Cuban Embassy, telephoned the Soviet Embassy about his
problem. It seems that OSWALD (whose name in not mentioned) wanted a

 

Cuban transit visa so he could go to Cuba end wait there for a Soviet

 

  
 

104-10004-10256
. obs ow

1
|
1
r
]

i
|
|

 

 

 

 

on

2 rev aba

SUMMARY of Relevant Information on Lee Harvey OSWALD at 0700 on
2h Hovenber 1963.

1. Our first information on CSWALD ceme from a technical
operation in Mexico City and vas cabled in on 9 October 1963. It
revealed thet on 1 Octcber 1963 Lee OSWALD had been in touch there
with Soviet Consul Valery KOSTIKOV about a telegram which the
Soviet Exbassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Exbassy in
Washington. The data showed that OSWALD had also been at the Seviet

-Etbassy on 28 Septeuber. Traces showed OSWALD was e former U. 8.
“@efector to the USSR and on 10 October CIA Headquarters notified the

Fai, State end the Navy (OSWALD had boon a Marine). Our Mexico Station ;

of the FRI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Rubassy.

Since our Agency is not supposed to investigate U. &. eltizens abroad
without special request, we did nothing further on the cage.

2. After the assassination of President Kemmedy on 22 November,
Mexico Station, which immediately recalled its earlier report on OSWALD

‘and esbled us ebout it, began researching all its files anf records for

reports which might relate to him. It tuned up pictures of a man
believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet! and Cubsn Enbassies on
various days in October, including 1 October, but when same of these
pietures were sent to the FBI in Dallas they proved to be someone other

Eon trezrz \
“TQeciment- abe K Ada - A4

ianpe:
ir FOIA Review oe “gi ‘ert

IT® Coba os
OF _f8T2 go
en eed

 

 

ee aswrerscy

 
13-00000

«3+

viea which would permit him and hie wife to go on to the Servlet
Unien. Silvie DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant
him the visa. A while later a Soviet official calle Siivia DURAN
pack and explains that the vise applicant had been dealing with

the Soviet Consulate in Washington about the same matter and that

i they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet viaa.

; The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing
he belonged to an organization in favor of Cuba. Silvia DURAN and

| the Soviet official agree to teble the matter.

6. On 28 September 1963, OSWALD again visite the Cuban Embassy
i and talks to Silvia DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the
Soviet Evbassy. OSWALD also talks te a Soviet offielal on her phone
apparently a forwarding address where he ean be reached. There is

   

some hint this address may be in Cuba.
' 7. Onl October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet
Consul KOSTIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones

 

the Soviet Militery Attache about the same matter. The Military Attache
gives him the number of the Consul. Finally, on 3 October, OSWALD
phoned the Military Attache again and tried to talk about a visa, but
the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give him bd
the right phone number.

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back into the
; : United States at the Nuevo Leredo-Laredo, Texas crossing point. He
i alpen
| had travelled on a Mexican Tourist Card in lieu of passport.

9. On 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, whe get the same
technical information which we do and who had noticed the name of
Lee OSWALD in it, arrested Silvie DURAN and her husband and interrogated
them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee
OSWALD had professed to be a Comamist and an admirer of Castro. She
and her husband are being held ineommmicado and their arrest will
not be made imown, for the time being.

20. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Exbassies in Mexico
i and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV,
since the assassination of President Kemedy, by both technical ant
| physical surveiliance, shows nothing wnusual.

11,__Mextean President Lopez Mateos is avare of this case |
( further police action which is necessary.

_

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

   

 

 

 
