 

a ee a

 

fas eee

 

 
  
 
  

WEP WES = Ts DSS
UrUe2tA, Wp dug G2, 523-9 (copy {2 EE Y = 320-19
"Cesar® fiie} .
"Brano® -stulent ldre. in ertle
"DLego"® -* ® a 8

 

*paital®-Sec, Geo, Eat, Coanalttes
"Migsel Angel®-Sec. of or, anizatioa
“Angas® -Sec. of section aad sabotage
*Calae® -fec, of propaganda .

 

Sone a 5 .
CPA Diss BPS

_—_ ey mL OS

af (9-3 g.

   

7 a remy rare regent we nh
‘

  
 
  

apenas
nigef Base, JMWAVE

wwysrat tonal. KUTUBE: KUCACE:—

bebsteLing of Cuban Refugees

 

 

 

 
      

 

“THromation in Paragraph 6 co ODENVY ©

 

     
   

   

HOLNG CAN RE AOED .
2 QAR FS OS Chat :

snecia

  

« On? August 1961 AMBLINK- 1 debrieted ‘the fol lowing Cubsn res...
fusees at the ODURGE Base: Albor KUIZ Salazar, Angel Jorge NOBRLGAS y-
Nerta, Arturo MORALES y Casitas, ‘and7Jenaro T. HERMIDA y Rodriguez, who
arrived tn Florida aboard che CONCHA frow Varadero, _ Matanzas Province. :

lan” Or. :aecaian
ma

 
 
 
 

   

iWruvince, vember 1940. He ls unmarried and lives at Varadero
uvvach, Matanzas Province, He ts a graduate of Che Methodise school, La
frogresiva, in Cardenas, and waa aléo @ first-year law student at the -
University of Habana. He ie currengly the provincial Leader of the
vireccorlo Revoluctonario Yatudiantih (DRE) for.Matanzas, He was sent
te the Usted Scates with a letter of’ tatteduction from "Cesar", national
supply chief of the DRE in Cuba, to Juan Manuel SAIVAT, the acting sec-
retacy-general of the DRE in Miami, and to two student leaders known’ in’
caile as “bruno” and "Diego", The leccer gave RUIZ authority co re-
sresent the Cuban National Committee of the DRE while he vas io the Unite
States, RUIZ gave the following "war names" of mevibers of the Nattonal
vurittee of the DRE, but refused to give Cheir true names: “Anibal,
seccotary-general; "Miguel Angel", aecretary of urganizacion; “angel”.
seerctary of action and sabotage; "Chino", secretary of propaganda, He
refused to divulge his mission here until he saw SALVAT and other DRE
leaders in the United States. He said he had no idea of the number of
sen they have organized, but he spoke convincingly of the strong and
w. Li-dfecdplined organizatfon the DRE has in every province, except Pinar]
“ei Alo, te seid he planned to return to Cuba soon with HERMIDA, He
ves Very incensed at what he coneidered che miacreatment he had received |
at'che handsof the U.S. Border Patrol and ODURGE in Key West. ;
UR j
3 angel Jorge *NOBREGAS y Heria, aka Jorge NOBREGAS, aka "Jultan’,
ake "Coco", was born in Habana on 22 July 1924. He Le unmarried, Re
said he was the co;ordiuator of che Montecristi group for the province of
recengas, and that,\ in hie absence, "El Abuyado" waa co cake over this
auetthion. He said fie came co che United Staces with HERMIDA te find our
the status of the group as far as being able co count on che United Scate:
aid for projects. He said chac if aid.is fyurtheeming, he will yemain in
the Uniced States and act as coordinacor-In-exile; ££ not, he will preb-
ably return co Cuba, Ha planued to stay withshis brother, Leslie NOSRE- .
GAS (20t- -282504), . ac 6043 West Lach Court, Hialeah, telephone TU 83-4401,

  
      
   
     
   
   
   
        
        
     
   
        

     
  
  

     
     
      

4, euro *HORALES N Cavais was born in _adiutzer, Habana Province,
on 23 October 1931. He is \pacried to Alicia ¥ SUAREZ Herques, who wes
horn in Matanzas on 8 October 1938, Thay have chrea children who are
‘with theies mother at Playa 163, Matanzas. MORALES gave Ais address in
the United Staces as Dorn Hutél, 155 SW 4th Avenue, Miami. Subject sald
he came co the United Stetes ina boat with his brother and four ocher
persons on 22 June 1961, and had recurmed to Cuba on 8 July ona -isston

a eee nen and Cte Re rhe tein hack Ne rank run

  

 

 

 

     
  
    
   

 

  

 
   
     

2. Albor "ay IZ Selezar, aka maul, was born in Cardenas, Matanzas — -
No

 

 
 

{roa 0177-40004

   
   
     
 
   
  

   

of base, JhHAVE
ional: RUTURE KUCAGE
iene teting of Cuban Refugees

     
   
  
 
  

 

  

RULING CAN 66 AGT
Sy QUAUNED no. CSR Crar

 

E°YSko nation fn Paragcaph r to ODENVY

 

ae On 7 August’ 1961 AMELINR-! debricted thy fullowing Cuban res
iugees at the ODURCE Rave: Albor KUIZ Salagat,, Angel Jose SORKAGAS y
Hecia, Arturo MORALES y Casiaa, and Jenaro ‘Te HERMLDA y Kodrigues, whe
sftived in Florida aboard the CONCHA frow. varade Matanza Pr
= ay. ere Ba.

2. Albor. "RUIZ Salazar, ake hgaul”, way Morn in Cardenas,
frovince, om 27 November 1940, ‘He is unmarried and Lives at Vvicadero: |
peuch, Matanzas Province, He ts « graduate of thy Methodist school, La.
croyzesiva, in Cardenas, and was also a fitet-veots law ntudéht at che. | |
‘ntversity of Habana. He ts currently the provincial léader-ct the,
Uirectorio Revolucionario Estudiancll (DHE) toc Matanzas. He was sent.
‘o the Uniced States with @ letter of tntreoutton trom Cesar, nacional
supply chief of the DRE in Cuba, to Juan Manuel SALVAT, the acting sec-
Tetarys general. of tha DRE in Miami, and co wo studer at Lleadera knvwm fn
wally as “Bruno and “Diego". The letter gave UZ authority to re--
present the Cuban National Committee of the DRY wht le he wae in the Unites
states, RUIZ gave che following “war cames" of rewbers of the National
‘| Committee of che DRE, but refuaed-to give chefr Crue names; “antbal™,
sucretary-general; "Miguel Angel", secretary of organization: * ‘angel,
»ecretary of action and sabotage; “Chino”, secretary of propdyanda. He
refused to divulge his mission here until he eaw SALVAL and other DRE |
ieaders in the United States, He said he had no tdea of the mondber of
{ven they have organized, buc he spoke convincingly of the strong and -
well-dtceiplined organization the DRE has in every province; except Pinar
dei Rio. He said he planned to return co Cubs soon with HERMIDA, He
was very incensed at what he considered the mistreatment he had received
at the handsof the U.S, Border Patrol and ODUKGE in Key West. :

: e/a

3 Angel Jorge *NOBRECAS y Herla, asa Jotge NOBREGAS, aka "Julian",
eka "Coco", was born ia Habene on 22 July [924. te te unnarried,- He
said he wae the co-ordinator of the Montecrist! group for the province vt
Necangzas, and that, in his absence, oer NBofado" waa co take over this
position. He gaid he came co the United Staces with HERMIDA to find out
the status of the group as far aa being able cto count on the United State,
ald for projects, He said that if aid is forchcowing, he will remain in
the United States and act aa coordinator-in-extle, i£ nut, he will prob-
ably return to Cuba, He planned co stay with his brother, Leslie NOBRE-
348 (26L- 7282504), at 6048 West l4ch Courc, Hialeah, culephone fU ¥-G401,

   

4 arturo MORALES y Casate was born in Aiquizer, ifabana Province,
ex 23 October 1931, He ie married co Alicia “SUAREZ Herquas, who was
born in Matanzag on 8 October 1938. They have chree children who are

teh their mother at Playa 143, Matenzas, MURALUS gave bia address in
the united States as Dorn Hutel, 155 SW 4th Avenue, Miam£, subjece said
je came Co the United States in a boat with his brother and tour other
persoas on 22 June. 1961, and had returned to Cubs on 8 July on a mtsstoa
rer the Nongenk ia i group and KUBARK. On this trip back he tack two
pecaons CO Cube, but efter caking them safely tc saore, he returned to
the bay and found the boat had left, He was chen forced to hide out in
qabana wotil che present time. He too was critical of the treatment

 
SEcret

tecelved from the United States officials in Key West.

Wer. £80 Fen . : . ; ee

5S. Jenaro T.7°MERNIM y Rodriguez, aka "Tico", was born ig Habana

on-4 January 1919. His father, Jenaro HERMIDA, 1@ decoased. His mother,
Clara RODRIGUEZ, is living in Guba. He ts married to Lettie “CIPOLLA, . -
an Arerican citizen whe vas born in Kansas City, Missouri. They have
two children, a@ gon Richard, who was born in Kansas City, and « daughter
Marilyn, who was born in. Habana, Wife and children are living at 20

Sidonia street, Aparcment 4, Coral Gables, Florida, telephone. ‘HE 46-4060, ;

HERMIDA said he was heed of a 26 of July Movemenc. cell in. che fight -ta-
Ooverthxow BATISTA. Whed this was accomplished, RERMIDA took over the.’.
Cperacion of the Rancho Boyeros Airporc vepresenting che 26 of July

Movement. He was subsequent ly named ‘president. of Cubana. Airlines. He

in-law, Dr. Belisario TELLECHEA, who is currently serving & nine-year
prison term on the Isle of Pines, HERMINA claims to be the leader fa
Cuba at chig time of the Modcecriset Broup. He said he came to the

nited States to meet with ANUAG. He sald he had made contace with
a6 oft tnsurgene leader tn che Escambray, and had with hic.
a lettor signe bY and his aide, Captain fin which

“they asked for 4 Certain gmount of military equipment.” HESMine said he

. lanned to see L£, through AMJAG, Le might be Possible co carry out
. 06 (Pies to set up as wllicary front in the Escambray. RERMIDA

4in/

men. He said hig national committee was made up of tha following per-

sons, giving cheir "war name g!t only:"Prado", chief of sabotage; “Alejandro”,

chief of finance; and "Racl", chief of the professional groups. Subjece

‘said he had left orders with che group not to place a bomb or fire a shoe

until chey have a major projecc to undertake, He was very upset over
the treatment received at che hands of the United States officials in

Key West. He planned to return to Cuba very soon,

6, AMBLINK-1 said that NOBREGAS and RUIZ claimed they saw a aan
at the CDURGE base who was know to chem tn Macaneas as a G-2 agent,

17 August 1961 : ; : ‘ BR
. a Ba RTURN 70 cup

Dietributton: : ; ‘ rn Norge Usa Oniy

3 - Addressee F
2 - Files

St an

 
