 

yo

 

 

- (confirmed by telecons earlier between undersigned and A/1
. he had received no packages from his father from Hexico

not discussed. A/1l was told that special equipment for a

rifle such as the FAL was difficult to procure as the :
weapon was designed primarily as a general-purpose combat :
weapon, not for special tasks. A/l then asked about the i
possibility of purchasiag a special woapon in Europe and
have EL HAGO take it back with him, He was told that such
special rifles (probably for hunting big game)were un-
doubtedly available in Europe, but that this did not solve
the biggest problem of how to get it into AMLASH/1. He
was told that such a gum or any part of it would undoubted-
ly be highly suspect if EL MAGO tried to bring any such
fitems inte Cuba. It is apparent, however, that thia topic
will continue to be one of concern to all persons connected
with the AMLASH/1 operation until it is resolved. Perhaps
the ‘best bet would be to lovel with AHLASH/1 at the next
meeting and tell bim that such equipment will net be forth=-
eonming from KUBARK or ODYOXE sources, together with the
reasons why not.

4a, uisition of Cuban Pesos. A/l stated ‘that he had
ealled Ricardo "s son in iphia several times

in New York) but that im each case, the son had stated that —

during the latter's last time in that city. A/1 thought
this indeed strange. The undersigned opined that perhaps
it was difficult to obtain pesos today due te the stringent
currency controls now in force in Cuba. We suggested to
AMMHIP/1 that he not pursue this problem with BORDO further,
aS any over-zealous efforts on his part to obtain the
currency might come to the attention of the Cuban authorities.
Of course, 1f BORDO does produce the pesos at a later date
(with no additional prompting from A/1), they will be readily
accepted. oe pi ene a hehe
neh 52+ wl fot

e@, Eduardo PERNAS. A/} stated that he believed long- .
time Commie Vincentina Antina was the mistress for many
years of Eduardo PERNAS, a jeweler acquaintance of A/l's
@ho owned (until intervened several weeks ago by the Castro
government) part of the jewelry firm of Pernas Gomes y Cia
(Consulado) located on the corner of San Miguel and San
Rafael Sts, Havana. PERNAS also had a store im Mexico City.
According to 4/1, PERNAS is now out of Cuba im Mexico, and
should have some interesting information to provide, since
he was ee close to ANTUNA for many years. PERNAS can be
reached at his store, Plaza de la Constitucion 7, Mexico
City, telephone No, 13-32766. (Eqs traces on one Eduardo
PERNAS, possibly identical with above PERNAS are attached.)

oe wee bac than & meted

 

 
 

 

DMAZBMAOARE] re

. : ~

4
1

“28 August 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP/1, New York City, 20 August 1964

1. Meeting Time/Place/Purpose., This meeting was held in
the offices of AWWHYP7T from IZ00 until 1430 and from 1815 until
2000 on 20 August 1964. The purpose was to discuss MHAPRON
gatters and to brief him for his coming trip to Europe and the
expected re-~contacts with AMLASH/2 and UNSNAFU/19.

2. Details of Meeting.

&. “El Mago" ROBREKO, According to ROBRENO'’s father
whe is presently Iiving In exile in New York City, El MAGO
ia presently living in Madrid at Pension HISPANA, Ave, :
Jose Antonio 44, Plaza del Callao; telephone No. not known.
A/1 will go Madrid to see EL MAGO on MHAPRON rqes, and then |
take him te Paris for a few days, if he ia willing. (EL
MAGO should be useful for gleaning information from the :
Embassy types while in Paris.) :

b. Jewelry Deal. According to AMVWHIP/1, there have
not been any transactions since the initial ones of 300,000
and 10,500 in June 64. He had expected to receive a packet AN
of jewelry per month worth ca. 50,000 dollars. A/1 also AMS,
wrote somo time ago (June 64) to UNSNAFU/19, but has not re- i‘ *.
ceived an answer to date. It is not known at this time py
whether the lack of further jewelry packets is just poor ot
adainistrative procedures on the part of the Cubans, or is
whether perhaps A/l is suspect for some reagen by the Cubans. a
This should be resolved when next A/l meets with 0/19.

e. FAL Equipment. A/l stated that he felt one of the
first things EL MAGO would ask him was about the FAL equip-
ment which AMLASH/1 has requested. A/l was told that the
silencer for the FAL did not exist and that it probably was
not feasible to attempt to adapt a make-shift one, according
to veapou authorities. The matter of a telescopic sight was

 
 

: 3 - in!
Cake OO

PERNAS is originally of Spanish nationalj¢y. This lead i
has been passed to the MuASRGN shop for follow-up. A/1 :
stated that he believed veRNAS's business was protected :
from interveption up to thi:. time through the inter- !
cession of WENTUNA (AMMHIP commented that his business

along with those of most of his friends suffered their

fate quite some time ago.) ;

fg. Raymundo TORRES ("EL cussz0"). TORRES called i
A/1 from Vexico yw & message trom AMLASH/1 for

A/1 (see below). At that time, TORRES out from Cuba on
a trip, was staying at the Hotel Guardiola, Ave. Madere
and Sam Juan de Letran, phone 218580. Later he moved to
Hornes 74, Apt 304, Mexico, D.F. A/1 stated that TORRES
was all right and apparently was trusted enough by AMLASE/1
to deliver an inocuous message and letter, the latter being
: not go harmless. 4/1 stated that TORRES was g.ven to
dy -! drinking and tock dope upon occasion. (No identifiable
woe traces on TORRES).

1

ae
.

a etm senere samenetbirmnemietes mee mete een

g@. AMLASH/1, LASH sent A/l the accompanying letter
wailed by TORRES. from Mexico, The text is self-explanatory.
It has been decided that there would ba too much room for
suspicion if KUBARK tried to have LASH invited to the cited
. Rational assembly of Surgeons. A/l has an acquaintance
*. with one Manuel RODRIGUEZ, who was in 1959 a medical student
and President of the Mexican F.£E.U. He suggested that if 1
he could locate RODRIGUEZ, he might be able to have bis i
formally invite AHMLASH to the Assembly, as the latter desires. :
A/) has not seen RODRIGUEZ (on whom there are no identi- ?
fiable traces) for about three years, but believes tiat .
—— there is no risk in attempting to locate his and asking this 4
favor. It is perhaps worth the effort, although admittedly +
j . it is a long shot, It should be noted that RODRIGUEZ ‘s
— father ig believed to be a coumunist, but that, according
bd to A/1, RODRIGUEZ is not. (This would adually not be a
problem, providing RODRIGUEZ believed that he wis just doing
a favor for A/1 who desires to see his old friend LASH.)
The note added to LASH's letter from "Marzo" is from
. Marcelino ARTIME Vega, who was used as a cut-out for mail
‘ between LASH and A/l prior to the October 62 Crisis. MARZO
4s a former phys. Ed instructor in the Batista eza , and is
presently employed at Los Hermanos store selling jewelry.
He ie trusted by LASH and A7I, needless to say.

J

 

i
t
'
i
i
|
{
3. There were no incidents of a security nature which |
_enme to the attention of the undersigned. A/1 will be contacted
telephonically concerning arrangements and advice on the AMLASE/1 t
letter. If necessary, ® personal meeting will be arranged prior '

 

RM aE ett te nae En ge OnSite Soe ee RI een me

Eisen

 
74-0000

to A/l's departure for Europe the weekend of 29 August.

 

 

 

(earner ——]

Distribution:
: Orig - A/1l ff~
1 = BOB chrono

 

   

ene nn RRR EEN i ants URNA Cm nef PEE em eS mn Wane Secs

 
