 

wi? oo, a . R Osisieteka .
! . . : ~ ane | _

” s ae eC
Based on available evidentd it seems clear that the Agency
was in no way involved in the assassination of Lumumba. However,
in the course of our rescarch, two aspects of the Lumumba story
surfaced that indicate Agency involvement in a plot. “In the one.

instance, our 1967 source mentioned the name of an Agency officer

_who was designated as the case officer for an assassination plot

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

against Lumumba, but reported that he had declined the assignment.

That officer v was the originator of a 19 December 1960 cable to.

‘Leopoldviite in which he authorized the return of QUIN to

 

Luxembourg goa fi December to await farther instructions and the

 

‘payment of 1000 dollars to him for his December salary by the
Luxembourg Station. The last paragraph of the cable advises
Leopoldville that headquarters is working out the details of a Congo
assignment for QUWIN. The same officer was the originator of a

31 January 1961 memorandum dealing with payments to QUWIN.

    

. In the second instance, ‘a'l7 December 1960 cable from
Leopoldville deals with the activities of a newly recruited agent,
WIRCGUE, whose mission was to try to spot persons for a”
aurveillance team, intelligence assets (with emphasis on Orientale
Province), and paramilitary assets. The second paragraph of the
table mentions that he resided in the same hotel as QIWIN (although
neither knew of the others CIA connection) and that he approached
pot

7

here a eet

eas

 

 

we
 

oe . pee
. (~ svrl

wee 3

the latter on 14 December with Ss SS otee Sf 300 dowars per month to |

participate in an Intelligence net and to be a member of an "execution
: équad. " When QJWIN said that he was not interested, WIROGUE
boo, added that there would be boauses for special jobs. The cable

mentioned in paragraph 6 that the Station was concerned with the free

oY : wheeling of WIROGUE, his lack of security, his inability to handle

  

 

- ; Sindacen, and his ‘umvillingness to follow instructions. The Station

   
  
  
  
  
  

   

i ling to keep him. on probation, but believed his-recall would

 

‘be ‘beat solution. | “A suggested alternative was to put him in

on that area.

= atternpt to — events, ‘Africa Division was apprised
of the above and was asked to search its records in an attempt to

7 clarity what WIROGUE was up te in the Congo and his reference to an

“execution squad." The research did not clarify the matter to any

great extent, although some assumptions can be made on the basis of

   

circumstantial evidence. On 19 ‘September “1960, two members of
Africa Division met with WIROGUE to discuss an operational assign-
ment in that division. In connection with the assignment, he was to
be trained in demolitions, small arms, and medical imrnunization.
In October 1960, a cable to Leopoldville stated that he was being

prepared for a deep cover assignment to arrive Leopoldville late

 

10 : . ean one)

whee UE

 
 

(>

 

Fei C2

headquarters division for whom he worked was concerned, inter

alia, with obtaining foreiga cipher and code books, and it is reasonable
to conclude that QJ WIN's primary and exclusive responsibility waa to
find individuals who could do this kind of job. One of the officers who

en \ .
: first met QUWIN in Luxembourg was on a trip overseas to find safe~-

  
  
  
   

\ erackers and document-suppliers._ The 24 December 1960 cable .
ations keeping him clean and using him i in Dakar and possibly Milan,
which was specifically mentioned in the 43 October dispatch as offering
“good possibilities for finding safecrackers and document-suppliers.
Further, good tradecraft practices would dictate that the last thing
"that would keep an individual clean would be involvement in an

assagsination plot. Although the Chief of FUD coincidentally was

  
  
  
  

later assigned responsibility for the Gastro operation, there is

 

no evidence to suggest that he was privy to assassination plots prior
0 his briefing in late 1961. . .
While QIWIN was considered for use im the "executive action
capability", there is no information available to suggest that he had

ever been approached in this regard, much less used in any of the

planning. ,

  

se teri eamer ween ot meeeng oe (4H
 

 

 

  
  
   
 

 

 

~~, ann . .
( cree | a
es . roy
mentions the termination of QUWIN's contéact, refers to the fact

that his only assignment since January 1962 has been to establish
. cover. i .
Agency officers who were handling QUWIN in Europe were almost
certainly unaware of the fact that he was being considered as an asset
by the senior Agency © official who had begun | to become active in
“February 1982 in the a: sassination plot against Castro. An undated

 

YES ONLY) memorandam from the Deputy Director (Plans) refers

to a 19° ‘February 1962 memorandum horizes the retention of

 

: the gervices of QIwIN in activities which we have identified a8

coincidential with the assassination plot: against Castro. The date of

the reference memorandum coincides with the time that the senior *

Agency official became actively involved in this enterprise. A

memorandum of 27 June 1963 dealing with the further handling of

QUWIN mentions that this enterprise has been terminated, except

for one precautionary “life line. "

In summary, it is almost certain that QIWIN had nothing at all

to do with the assassination of Lumumba, even though the contents and

language of available files are often cryptic and imprecise. If he had

been, it is highly unlikely that the number of Agency officers handling

and contemplating assignments for him would have been so large. The

3 an ee
BES Goo
5
STA ep
wed. 2],
14-0000

 

 

‘ke restrict QIWIN to activity directly pertinent his mission

proceed to Leopoldville. (Presumably he idea for sending hira

there originated at headquarters because someone must have
considered him qualified to handle a potential operation there.) The
precise mission was not conveyed to QUWIN, and he was only informed
that we mission might involve a large element of personal risk, We

| do. jiot teow and at present are unable to determine what the assignment

was. Subsequent cable traffic discusses ‘arrangements for erwin te go .

fe to Leopoldville and then to Dakar.

: On ry ‘December QUWIN was in Leopoldvitie ‘where he cultivated

ws close personal relationship with a Yugoslav Air Force pilot. There

follow suggestions in cable traffic on what approach Qrwin should use _
to recrulthim. However, a special channel FI/D cable of 14 December
ratee this target as marginal when considered against the framework of

plans for QJWIN and instructs him to desist if action has not already

“been taken. The first paragraph of this cable states that we “would

Leopoldville or forthcoming mission Dakar and possibly elsewhere
(e. go, Milan) for FID purposes. He our only asset of this type and
we wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than that
originally planned for him." This cable would tend to rule out |

involvement in an assassination plot, since it is highly unlikely that

RiE3 CAT
3
tear

.
a ns
.

Soe we
74-00000

: * sm, erese
. ( Vue : -

BS ONY

an \ individual picked for such a sensitive and dangerous assignment

would be burdened with other chores or assignments immediately
thereafter, oo,

Lumumba was stil alive, albeit wider arrest, as of the middle
of Janiary 1961, and it seems clear that QIWIN had left the Congo
in Decembar 1960, A 19 December cable to ‘Leopoldville authorizes

“ his return to Luxembourg on 21 December, and instructs Luxembourg

 

to pay him 1000 dollars for December salary, which is the final

: payment for hia services on this operation. Also, headquarters was
working oug the details of a Congo assignment. An ry January 1965
headquarters memorandum, which refers to.T/A's dated 21 December
2960, states that the referenced amounts were ‘given to QIWIN by the
Chief of Station, Luxembourg. This suggests that QUWIN was in

; Luxembourg on or before 2! December. |

    

Subsequently, it appears that QUWIN operated in Europe trying

 

to spot and assess individuals whom the Agency could use in safe-
cracking operations, in line with one of the principal missions of
FID. A 24 May 1962 cable to Luxembourg mentions that a decision
was made to kecp him in Europe and that the Leopoldville assignment

had been cancelled. A transfer to Baden-Baden is deemed a good

  
   

choice, Also, a 24 April 1964 disptach from Luxembourg, which
loaia ftceag

Rye oom @

. .

 

7 4
Sioczeh,

 
14-0000

i - , : . . . ‘Selgehaasinaro, 7
! ” , , . A oT | ms

: instructors in Western Europe. ‘Ales; Fd was then teaching the
C 24 _J He departed Leopoldville in July because
¢ had run into difficulty obtaining a residence Permit, and his CLA
contract was terminated in September 1961,
Afcica Division believes that WIROGUE was recruited for his

Congo assignment because of his third country national background
in order to establish a support mechanism in Leopoldville. At the \

_ time the Congo was in chaos, we had few assets there, and the

vo 7 likelihood existed that the political situation would degenerate

quickly. ‘The Station possibly alse wanted to have a latent paramilitary.
¢ ility. ” An October 1964 a Assessment of WIROGUE indicates Uttle — 1
flap potential with him since he knew little about the Agency. He apent

most of his time trying to develop contacts and was not directly involved

in any particular operation. . .

pare
~~ .

ee ee ag tome .- wee 8 Top ee .o—
 

104-10178-10012

 

co ae ammee nwetg +

—~ f¢ “=

( not {

November. Headquarters Moted the-intent to use him as a utility |

agent in order to "(a) organize and conduct a surveillance team; (b)

intercept packages; (c) blow up bridges; and @) execute other assign-
ments requiring positive action. His utilization is not to be restricted

to Leopoldville. Indeed, he may be subject to call by other African .

“atations although it is expected for him to be resident in Leopgldville. *

WIROGUE arrived in Leopoldville on 2 December 1960. His case

officer gave him the following instructions: (a) to build cover possihly

by opening al rhs 7 shop; and (b) to try to spot persons for a

surveillance team, intelligence assets and paramilitary assets, .
Shortly after arrival, WIROGUE ran into QUIN, who later told the
station that WIROGUE looked like an intelligence agent. In attempting

to recruit QUWIN for his “execution squad", WIROGUE exceeded his
instructions to avoid making approaches without checking with
Leopoldville Station. .
[in January 1961, at the request of the Leopoldville Station,
WIROGUE was given permission to take flying lessons. By March,
he had obtained the position of L ys , |

with } 0% 7 in that capacity he was used by CIA for the

purpose of gathering intelligence on C yan A By

April, the fe ay deere trying to use him to obtain arms and
 

1A nan os ne ree | meee eae.

Te eee ee ee canner en

“a Rance

By)

(

Bane ones

QIWIN

According to’ statements by a senior CIA officer in 1967, made

te the Inspector General, the Agency was instructed to develop a

“Capability to conduct assassinations. Termed an “executive action

_ capability," such a Project was initiated in 1961, apparently: “assuming

~7an exdating cxyptonym, ZRRIFLE. At the request of the case ‘officer ” .

(ihe same officer providing this information in 1967), a clandestine
asset in Europe; QIWIN, was to be used in the project. ‘The éase
officer understood that QTWIN had been considered in 1960 for use
in the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, but that the proposed
operation was never carricd out becayse the designated CIA case
"officer declined the assignment.

The ‘ease officer in charge of ZRRIFLE also was involved in an
operation te assassinate Fidel Castro, runsing from early 1962 to

mid-1963, ” However, QIWIN was not used in this effort, reliance

. being placed instead on a Cuban exile leader. QJWIN was never

briefed on the Castro operation, according to the officer handling
ZRRIFLE and the Castro operation.
Records do show that QIWIN was dispatched to the Congo in

1960, being there in November and December 1960, prior to the

. po 7 mar

ame er |
 

   
  
 

crackers and document-suppliers. a.

 

. tad .
(— BSS Cay. by
death of Lumumba at the hands “of Congolese. However, there is no
evidence to suggest that QUWIN was in any way involved in Lumumba's
demise. The case officer who was the-source of the information of
‘the contemplated use of QuwiN in such a an activity t understood that he -
was never used in this manner. The following information reviews .
ing knowledge beyond that summarized above.

transmits notes to i

  

-AB October 1960, dispatch from!
: rom, one of the two officers who subsequently met

erwin i in Luxembourg. The notes list the names of police officials
and criminal elements and allude to the posuibilities of finding safe-

ae
Fi

QIWIN was met in Luxembourg on 19 and 29 October 1960 by

_.two Agency officers and was asked if he would undertake & brip to

“Africa, preaumably Dakar. (The appropriate dispatch, dated

 

2 November 1960, lists only Luxembourg and ee] as addressees. )

He was ‘not given the true objective of his mission because of its

“ extremis sensitivity and pending a final decision to use him. Instead,

hey was told that the Soviets were operating in Africa among nationality

groups, specifically Corsicans, and he was being asked to spot,

assess, and recommend some dependable, quick-witted persons for

our use. He agreed to go on the trip, On 2 November QUWIN was

met in Frankfurt by an Agency officer, and he accepted an offer to
eye

B23 Lanwob

2 .

ot eS
TAN

re | e

 
