74-00000 *

was involved in certain assignments for this Agency.

 

   

PROS AND CONS OF THE ROBERT MAHEU CASE

'

1, Senator Long has been told by Morris Shenker, his personal attorney, that Robert Maheu

He is specifically aware of our interest in

the Onagsie-Niarchus Case, ag well as our use of Giancana (not the mission), Senator Long allegedly
agreed to withhold the subpoena of Maheu if the Agency simply confirms Maheu's statement that he
has been utilized in the past on sensitive assignments for CIA. Senator Long reportedly does not
desire to know any of the particulars and reportedly agrees not to get the Agency involved through
other witnesses that may be called.

2. Ifthe Agency accepts this proposal, the following possibilities exist:

‘a. If the Senator honors the agreement, the following Pros and Cons.exist:

PROS

The Agency will not become involved and
no publicity will ensue. This undoubtedly
would also have a number of advantages
for Maheu personally, since he would not
be involved.

 

CONS

The Senator could withhold the use of
this information at this time, but could
utilize the information later if he desired

' to do so..

. He could withhold use of the information

at this time, but have his Committee

. Staff dig into the matter more deeply to

develop the full story in the case for use at
a later date, :

He could advise other individuals on the
Hill that he had withheld the subpoena

’ of Maheu due to the Agency's involvement

in the two cases.
 

 

AAO]. . See eaeee BO me sey

* MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
THROUGH : Deputy Director for Support.

SUBJECT : Pros and Gons of the Robert Maheu Case

1.. This memorandum is for your information only and is
forwarded with the thought that it may prove useful to you in your
consideration of the difficulties now facing us in the Robert
Maheu Case.

2. Ihave spent considerable time in an effort to evaluate
the various alternatives open to us in this case. Tome, it is not
really a question of whether to brief or not to brief but rather to
examine the consequences arising from either action. In an ef-
fort to delineate all possible actions which could result from
either position you may take on this case, I have prepared the
attached list of "pros and cons”. It is completely objective and
Ihave scraped the bottom of the barrel to list all possible con-
sequences. It is forwarded with the thought that you might find

it usefui.
a bk SUA
é toward J. Osborn
( Pirector of Security
Attachment

List of Fros and Cons
on Robert Maheu Casa

Distribution:
Crig. - DCI
1 - DDS ;
1 - General Counsel

   

RETURNYO CIA ~~
Background Use Only
’ Do Not Reproduce
 

74-00000

b. Ifthe Senator does not honor the agreement,

PROS

The Agency would be in a position of
having attempted to cooperate with the
Senate Committee by informing them of
our interest in the matter,

We would be more sure of having the
fullest support of Maheu, Morgan and
Shenker since we have attempted to
solve the problem and our attempts |
have failed through no fault of our own.

we sag CEDEET

Vay

   

 

the following Pros and Cons exist:

CONS _

. Maheu will be subpoenaed and upon inquiry

into the Onassis and Giancana affairs, will
refer the Committee to the Agency, This
will publicly surface our connection. (The
Onassis case does not present too much

of a problem since this association has been
a matter of court record, the Agency was
not involved in wire tapping, and senior
official's of the Government were well aware
of the operation, - .

Even though Maheu refers the Committee

to the Agency in this matter, the Giancana

situation could be most embarrassing,

First of all, even though Maheu would not

be involved in the questioning, the Committee
might call Giancana to testify. The attendant
publicity would possibly identify Maheu as

an Agency intermediary to other members of |

the Giancana family,

If Maheu! s association with the Agenc is
ublic] i i caus
© volunteer

 

information on the Djakarta incidonts,

‘The Senator could also leak it to the Press.

Lope

 

TxeRo
/cory

 
 

 

 

c. If the Agency does not accept Senator Long's. proposal, the following Pros and Cons exist:

PROS

We have made no admissions and have.
furnished no validation to the Committee
concerning our association with Maheu.

We have not admitted to the Committee

our involvement in the Onassis or Giancana
affairs, We are ina position to simply
deny any involvement in wire tapping in

the Maheu case, which after all, is the
purpose of the hearings of the Long
Committee.

 

 

CONS

a We risk arousing the ire of Maheu,

Morgan, and Shenker because of our lack
of cooperation.

Since the Senator has reportedly been
informed of our involvement with Maheu
and we have not acknowledged it, he may
then feel free to dig into the matter
completely since we have not furnished
him with the information.

‘Giancana may be called to testify and we

could not control Giancana.

€ome into the picture as a result of the

‘television publicity involving Maheu.

Our involvement in the Giancana situation
would become known to other members of
the Giancana family.

coed
XERO

ie i ee tnd KER

ws

ye —

ERS
corr |

 

Yom)
