104-10210-10028

B.

 

 

You are confusing me a little bit; you see how it was == I was the
Secretary of a small Xonsonol organization,
It is just additional work.

Tnere are Komsonol Secretaries who make it tneix profession,

“4

as ioe
fa
top pecan
woe

I have already said that if you were just a Secretary ....
This, I would have to know about Party = Komsomol wor! like God.

Then, pernaps, I would ask more questions than I am asing.

Most of what you have said uakes it difficult to belicve that you

were a Secretary.

There is no basis to believe it.

((Long pause.)) Let us assume that you are the Secretary of a Komsonol
organization; there are only 15 members; you simply execute the work
of a Secretary, but you have other, operational work.

When did you find tine for a Konsomol meeting.
Once or twice every taree months.

Well, again -— you are saying this deliberately; right?

But the Regulations state how many meetings there are to be.

Of course, it is not necessary that these regulations always be
observed, but someone checks, and the Secretary always is asked if a

meeting was held or not.

You are making a big issue of this; you are judging strictly
officially, according to how the Regulations are to be followed.
Approach this differently — what is the Komsomol organization:

It is a small organization, just so and so many are in it - what can
one do with this small organization. ,

It is a different thing if it is the Komsomol organization of

Surveillance -—= it is a huge one.

ane Canteen

But, as far as I know ....

In a large organization, the pot has to keep boiling =~ indeed, they

  

will require a huge organization ((to operate)) strictly.

But a smail organization ....

 
104-10210-10028

 

A, The natin wor goes on in the Second Chief Directorate, not in
Eurvelllance, the chief worl,

The most important is Counterintellirpence, then Surveillance,
B. I au talking about the Komsomol organization.

A, Well, wo will say that you do not call the meetings as frequently as.
the Revulations call for.
No one will deny this.
But, if you do not call meetings at all, soneone makes a check on then.
((X%G; A and B speak at the sane time.))

e+» But not one time in three months -= this is absurd,

B. Not at all absurd,
I tell you more than half -- 80 percent -—- of the members are typists
and secretaries from other departnents,
How can I pose a question concerning work in a necting of the Komsomol
organization.
I cannot do that.
First of all, the people come from different departments.
These are support people, not operational.
It is a different thing if it is a Party organization or Komsomol
organization in a department, but there were none in the departments
of the Second Chief Directorate.

Here, questions closely connected with work are raised,
A, This is all understandable,

B, And here we discuss how a Komsonol member must behave, or, we will
say, a Plenun, a Plenum of the Konsomol or a Plenum of the CC of the
Party has just been held — and this is the talk of the Komsomol
organization.

Minety-nina (99) percent of our talk is about the Plenum and our

Pree TOR

agreement with it. “
We could not talk about work, because such is the set-up of the i

 
 
 
 

Komsomol organization.

If, for example, ((B’s surname)) were Secretary of the Konsorol

     
104-10210-10028

 

B, The punishments will be indicated in the Personnel file,
The Personnel file will indicate that you had a punishment in the
Party or Xomsonol.

Indeed it will be there,

A, It will be there, that is true, but the basic document for Konsomol

punishments is the Komsono). card.

B. The card on the konsomol menber which is maintained on him at the

place where he is on the rolls.

A, My question -~ all of the time, we have been going over it the whole
day -= how could they put you on the rolls of the Komsomol without

seeing your Komsomol card.

B, I did not just come in off the street.
Look how you are making your judgement -- as if it were the Komsomol
Committee accepting me for work.
I already was accepted for work -= this is the work of Personnel,
Now would the Komsomol Conmittee regulate the work of Personnel’

No.

A, Again —— you know little about what foes on.
No one says that the Konsomol Comaittee controls the work.
For a man who was just about to leave the Komsomol, the Secretary of
the Komsomol Committee probably will speak to the Personnel Department
about what they think.

They have plenty of their own over-age personnel ((Komsomol members)).
B. I do not know whether they talked or not —— they would not inform me,

A. Had you not been a Secretary, perhaps it would not be worthwhile
a © EEE eee ty “ES,

asking these questions -— because, as a Secretary of a Komsomol

organization, you must know this, because it is daily and routine work.

3 snoaek

1

!

i .

I _ You do not have te learn the work,it works itself in.
i

 
104-10210-10028

 

 

How docs this conform with the Regulations
I do not remember.

We again are confronted with a question -- whether, ((as)) you say,

they did not request your card, or you do not renenber,

I do not say that they did not request it; I am saying that they

did not ask me.

It means that you were not in the Konsomol,

((In a low voice.)) I can not say anything more; think what you want.
We will not say this is "think what you want”,

I cannot tell you anything more.
I tell you I am trying, explaining the way I know it; What I know,

I know; what I do not know, I do not know,

To hear a Secretary of a Komsomol organization say that they did

not request the card but issued a new one =~ this is absurd,

Why did I make that conclusion.
Because no one asked me =~ neither the girl in the registry group,
nor the menber of the bureau of the Komsomol asked ne anything

((such as)) "Listen ((B's surname)), let us write down where and what."
Well, it would be logical to ask this; let us assume ..,.

Logical, logical.
In case they had to request my card from the oid place where I was
on the rolls, it would be logical for them to ask me; this is why I

made the conclusion that they did not request it.

Then how could it happen, for example, if you came to them ... they

  
 
   

accepted you for work in the KGB == we will assume you came to the
Secretary of the MVD Konsomol with the Komsomol card,

The Komsomol card does not indicate the punishment,

If there are, in the Komsomol card, ten punishments, then what about
the questions of accepting you for work in the organs of the “vb?

      
 
 

104-10210-10028 Sek ; "
s. T we. “a

A. Well, what did he ask you.

B, It was about where I was on the rolls, when I entered the Xomsonol,
what kind of Komsomol tasks I have had, whether I held a responsible

Komsomol position,

A, One minute, he asked you where you were on the rolls.

What did you tell hin,

B, ((Pause)) He did not ask me like that; he asked when I centered;
I told him I entered the Konsomol in 1943,
So, I had had no punishmeu cs,
Had I been elected to a resvonsible position:
I was once elected in the Yar East, where I started to work in 1950;:
I had been elected in 1951.
I was elected Secretary of the Party organization; this was my only
elective office, but I fulfilled other tasks as 42 rankeand-file

Konsomol member.
A, Again ... Party or Komsomol:

B, Komsomol.
* Where was I last on the rolis-
I told him I was at the Navy Intelligence Point cn the Baltic, in the ®
Fourth Navy Fleet,
I was on the rolis there for only a few months.
What else did he ask me:
I do not remember.

He might have asked about my family status, about education....

((XG; A and B speak at the same time.))

A, Well, I will ask a leading question -— where was your personal _

4 Komsomol file located when you were working in the Baltic:

alii 6 Ps

B. What Komsomol file.

. Here, there is only a personal Komsomol record card.

 
 

A. Where was it?
104-10210-10028

 

B. I do not know, I do not know, I can not say.

A, If you were the Secretary of the Komsomol organization of the Second
Chief Directorate, even without knowing where the card had been in

the Baltic area, you would be able to answer this question.

B, Very woll, I can tell you, of course, according to how it is supposed
to be.
I am telling you, not because I remember -- I do not remember; the
card, of course, should be in the Political Departnent.
In the Political Department there is a section, a Komsomol Committee,
which guides all of the Komsomol organizations, all of the primary
organizations in the Fourth Fleet,

But, I do not remember that, and I tell you I do not remember.

A. Well, when the Secretary asked you where you were enrolled, he had

in mind where your card was; what did you answer him’

B. I told him that I was a Komsomol member of the Konsomol organization
of the Navy Intelligence Point of the Fourth Navy Fleet.
That is all. : °
Do you think that they ask that the card be sent-
Nothing of the kind.

They issue a new one,

A. Well, are you telling the way it was in fact or are you making this
up just to pass the time away’

B. I am not making anything up.
A. When you say ....

fe. B, Well, then they should have asked me, there in the MVD, “Tell us iv —
the number of the military unit to which to send for inquiries”,

But no one asked me these things.

J
i

A. If they did not ask you these things, how could they request your ,

  
  

card?

B. I am telling you that they certainly did not ask for the card.

ee 2é

bad Pn EE

     
104-10210-10028

 

 

TRANSLATION

7

B. Well, taxe veersthinskiy, on uvoernauinshiy Square, the "Detskiy Nir"
store was opcned only in recent years.
Taat is, vnen I began working in 1953, there was no “Detskiy Mir".
When was it there.

I absolutely do not renember, I do not rentater.
A, One minute.

B. What was there before.
I also do not renenber.
The sane vith the Gastronon -= chen ws it opened.

I do not renenber.
A. ... Yaen you began working ....

B. ... I say I do not remenber

((XG; A and 2 speak at the same tine.))

A. But I was not asking you about that ((the "Detsiy ‘lir" storce)).

You told me yourself.

B. (XG). ;
, A. Alright; if you worked there 11 years, etc..i., the "Detskiy Wir" j
pe: .., Was open .... sogeeee wn Bn ern aw te,
When was it opened.
B. When.
. a I do not renember, I do not remember.
i And I also do not remember what there was in that place before,
4
i either.

  

= BRCRET

 

   
104-10210-10028 Or
‘ MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

 

" HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

   
    
 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assasin
Records Collection Act of 1992
Aas eS ya 44 USC 2107 Note
FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME: ASL SCK v7 _ 53246 6/17/41

a

ME NENR AE LZR REEET Ie

; Keel ty
iscLustve bates: ef THLY /96 8 — 29 Tiny /GeS
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: — S&

ROOM:

 

 

 

 

 

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

 

DATE | DATE | | oT
RECEIVED! RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

or 2 | TWOHAtAA Sh

 

ht ee ete ae te 1 Be wBe uiBienige be

‘

2 ate th aed or

RE

  
104-10210-10028

B.

I remember only that, on the Tsentral'nyy Street (proyezd) side, : i
there was a very welleknown, fanous bar, in a basement -- I remember

this,

But what kind of building there was before this, I do not renember;

but in 1953, there was no "Detskiy Mir",

((In English.)) Well,

if you worked there, you would know exactly what was there,
I do not renenmber,

And, probably, if you had worked there, you would have dropped in
there several times.

And that will be my next question,

But, please; I am telling you; please -- I do not remember what

was there before the “Detskiy Mir",

There was some kind of building, but I do not remenber what was there.
But, on that side, where Dzershinskiy Street goes down to Marx Street

(Prospekt Marksa), there was a bar.

That there was a bar there, every dog, all the KGB employees and

all of Mogcow knew.
((XG; A and B speak at the same time.))

Yes, everyone knew <= right.

But I do not remember what there was in this building.

Why did they like to go to that bar? ‘

‘
a
{
1

Because there was always crayfish and beer there.
Well, it was an interesting bar.

There were several bars in Hoscow. : srdtnnamt FE os £28 HeRaomppe up

    
    

But this bar was called precisely “Bar",
It was in a basement and it had a low ceiling.

When did they change the name, “Bar'?
104-10210-10028

A,

 

with me the first time -- it was either SOKOLOV or KOZ'MIN, one of

 

“Beemer i ass

3
3

I do not remember; the name, ‘Bar, was changed to “Pivnoy Zal
(Beer Hall)"; “Pivnoy Zal" Number Such-and-such, "Pivnoy Zal"

Number Two,

Imagine =~ if you worked in the KGB in 1953, 1354, 1955, 1956,
1957, 1953, etc,, then probably every day you walked on

Dzherzhinskiy Square from some side,

Certainly.

You went on Dzherzhinskiy Street from one side or another sonewhere,
Yes.

You probably passed along Kuznetskiy HMost' every day.

Yes,

I can in 20 way believe that you have forgotten what there was

in the place “Detskiy Mir" ((now standg)).
I do not remember, I do not remember,
Impossible.

I do not renember, I tell you I do not remember,
I myself can give you an exanple,

Anyone can become confused,

For what reason do you give this example?
This is another question,
We can return to this later.

Well, anyway, what about the Komsomol? :

I told you about it absolutely accurately, the way I remember it.

So, so, so,

 

Well, what did you speak about with the Komsomol Committee Secretary
of the MVD the first time you saw hin?

It was not only the Secretary of the Komsomol Committee who spoke

ae ely

    

these bureau members.

 
