 

‘

seis Peet

    
  
  
  
      
   

 

 

Wateh Officer was also asked
aunicator who in turn would oon
G0 to their office.

 

that EACB was in a

(cos/cusopa Office)
& general briefing on the mission and his responaip,

‘whieh he and LAPOLLA took off immediately for Wiesbaden,
with them the purchases of the Guard Sergeant,

B. FAGERUUND (CO3 Auction) Offieer) and myself would leave inmodiately -
' for Wlesbaden Air Base, ‘

21. PAGERUUND was in attendance at the sanc
departed iomediately for the Air Hage.

2500 hours the EAOB

‘ provisions were observed in: the area. Air Poline had th
Avoa” blocked off two blocks in either direction,

. -42. ‘TOCHENSKY met me outside the but
' demediately aftor texs-ort subject's aix-year-old daughtor had besome
_ Oxtrenely airsick and suffered reapirszory difficulties,
| @dministered oxygen,

Gemanded that the at

8. At approximately 1900 hours LAPOLLA contected me

9. I then proceeded to the home of Ronald ™. CORBANE (COS Lanyer)

 

to, immediately phen: the Wiesbaden Com-_
teat TOCHENSKY and beth of them would

  

and ascertained
atate of imnsdiate readiness. David it. MULFALL
then arrtved with IDENTITY A.

hours I received

n3 Signal
ing message from the

ick passenger. Iasaedi<

who was at the Quarters

‘ atated that he
proceading to

ime ke other details. I toid him Chestsr

dinner party and we
Upon arrival at approxinately
eiroraft had alreedy lanied ara NSAID Beourity

no "Hangar 34

iding snd informed ma thes

She vag
The mocher becane hysterical and the father

roraft immediately be returned to its point of

 
 

 

 

3
4

 

departure. He further stated he would not agree to further travel
to the United States “axcept by commercial jet.

introduce him as an "/variean Intelligence Service Medical Officer"
-,, Qi have FAGERLUND examine the ehild, FAGERUBD's results were the

   
   
          

   
   
  
    
   
   

neoeasity to arrive in Washington and state this information witnin .
the next 28 hours. ROODINE also stated he coneurred in subieat's feele
representatives then on the soene again got together

@ in case we should need 1¢. 1 immediately .
by phone but there was no anawer, I then phoned

& Contact Stephan R, LACKLEN OB) and tell hin wo had
en immediate need to house & ‘amily of three, plus two .
WUGARK officers at Eschborn. To further teil LACKLEN to
be standing by at Opel Girole opposite the Minneapolis |
Honeywell Building at 0109 heures an’ be prepared to eacors
enother vehiele to Z3;) Cs TN :

b. Phone BENTHAM and teil him we wouldidrop by his house
Xater that evening to Urief him on any developments,

@ Phone LYACK and tell his we were using Eschborn,

18. All concerned departed Wiesbaden Air Base at Spproximately
0020 hours on 27 December and arrived at the meeting point at Opel
Girole at exactly 0100 noure, Subjeot's family plua MULPALL, who had
@lso gone immediateiy +9 Wiestadsa,- foliowed LACKLEN‘s ear to EReshhern,

FAQGERUMD, LAPOLLA, ROQDINE, and niyself want immediately to SENTIAM's
. house. . .

5 ooh pt mn somins me eters reat ee

Scores

   

le

    

ret ror) C2 et.

  
 

ert
 

 

4. Having heard nothing from eithe: or Headquarters =
by 0945 hours OPIM traffic was sent, in bo rections telling them
Germzy was prepared to receive and effect immediate black evacuation
Of tne family to the United States, in the meantime, it had been

that IDENTITY A would be used aa the seourity escort and
Ruseel K. MUCHANE (AD/PI Staff) would be on standby to serve as a
EXDOVE escort. This Was a contingency at

Nae kaon}, whether or not a KUDOVE officer from either Helsinki or

S$. Around 1100 hours I asked Edward P, TOCHENSKY (Chief; EAca)

» to establish contact with the Wiesbaden Ai S2fower and lay an
_ SrFangewents te monitor the flight of the tir Attache plane.-

This ets done because we have had previous ces of "black™ ;

arrivals at bey ies “here the aircraft actually arrived before ‘the
EPA cable fros (ihe tatied) dlapeteninn the body,,-At about 1115 hours . -
; : inforwed ‘me iy telephone that the Air Attache

airereft, a Co¥5, waa and had been at the

Fr Base since. _ .
22 December. At about 1130 we cabled thia information to
@mi DIR and a to dispatch an airoratt to Cop
the pickup 4 .

; riee involving air clearances and ‘lerigths “of rumways, —
Wa could not iemeately get into any field north of Copenhagen.

 

     

of subject's family upon arrival, If auch could not be

T. Having hearg nothing from|

: : by apprusiaately 1600
"| Bourse: we @gain sent them oPIM traffic asking that they inform us
.- + I had previously left the office
shout 14350 hours in onder to get some lime: end taxe 28 OF ane or +
tars Psrsonhl items, I hea c2lled Nelson kh. POLIAKOFP (Deputy for
. Administration starr) in to cover for me :

current situation. nen I returned at 1600 hours MUCHANE had
Gems into the office crapared for the trip,

. wBentsoned cable and Suggested that MUCHANE r

 

|
3
|
eturn to hig quarters and
Qwait further developments. I Phoned TOCHNSKY and suggested that he
. . aad Rie communigater retusa to their quarters. TAPOLLA, in the mean=
_ Sime, had gone to Rhein/Main Alrport to meet an inooming staffer carry
oy. -. ° ig clessttied Gaterial and get him through Cuatoma. ie then returned
©, te bie home. I lett word with the Signal Center Watch Officer that
@ay incoming traffic on subject's irip should be telephoned tsnediately
H ot » veview the traffic and contact m-. The
| “
|
4
‘

ee

 

   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   

 
 

 

 

18 December 1961

   
  
   
  
 
    

NEMGRANDUM FOR: the Record

- SUBJECT: ; Handling at German Station 16 and 17 Desember of
Soviet Defector fron Russian Enbasey at Helsinki

1. This mencrandua designed to record, soon after the event,
@ll facts pertaining to the handling within the German Station of the _
evacuation of @ Soviet Vice Counagl (and member of the KIS) fréa the
Russian Bebaasy at Helsinki, ‘At the time of this writing there ta
@till lacking certain information to complete the entire sto

while the memory ta-
fector is referred ta
as “subje-t” and pseudonyms and: identities are used in all’ other cases.

2, At approximately 0730 hours Saturday, 16 Deceaber, Arnold J.
LYACK (Chieg ,{ ONE) contacted me at my home and asked: me. to pro

~ BENTHAM's residence,
tha leable which .acnouns:
fly family “black” from
Air Attache aircraft. Cable alao réqi
eraft available to receive immediately subject and family and take oft
forthwith to the United..& . EYACK algo mentioned an, IN cable from

DIR ubich requested © move family soonest to(CABEZONE in
Prenkfurt for establishzent of bona fides. Oa

a adjourned to the office and awaited more word from”

ner fenton would advise on the arrival.time. ofthe family
. or’ from Headquarters conourring in request

. for ineediste departurs of ‘ne family for the United States upon.
@erival at Frankfurt. KEAQB was imuediately alerted and they made.

Grrangesenta to have a C-54 with augmented crow prepared to depart for

“ She United States by 1200 houra, A compartment for ‘the subject's |

' Samily was put in the C-54 and the regularly asoigned tail number was

:, Semoved and a false number put on the airoraft. Conrad V. LAPOLLA

~ (Aeting Chier, COS/KUSCDA) wes contacted and askad to come to the office
| immediately. Disoussions were then held with LYACK and Carl T, UPDILL

@@ to the availability of @ KUDOVE onge officer with Hussian language
* @@pability to act as escort.

 
 
   

LYACK briefed me..on .......

  

   
 
 
 

  

 

 

 

 

2S ce Stamey eran ten cgr armen Reese 4Beerten we pete Ot te eee Poe pe st ts

i
A

    

 

f~ TO EBG0T~14004, 31 Jan 1962

  
   
    
   
  
 
  
  

PVs, Nowe.

dnmediately to the residence of Joel D. RENTHAM (Chief of Station),

 
 

{

 

 

° H Tas 7 pe ee ae)
CONTINUATION OF ai

DISPATCH | BoJP-iscus, i January 162

 

&. Tre eledom wf ALMKK maintaining im tue European &rea ot least one ‘ield
installation having ossigned to it persunnel] representing tum sany ¢copetencies
Becessary 1.8 tl@ intelligence uMiertaking :@5 been recu. firmed.

9. The «iscos of oltaining appropriate security ¢leqiances, ami having
Stations trief and mase uitting cf at least an AiS contact, tio resigent senior
United States citizen porsoanes of Unites States flag air carriers operating
eitain any Station's area. :

ec. Tne fallacy of dependiag on aarg.aai or obsolescent, equipment to
ecoccmplisn Semeltive tame of nign priority. we here refer te i7-year C->4 aire
oratt.

a. A remlizstian that @ retic eaists oetseen the nuaber of pple ande .
@uare of & given uviertaking in rolation te tne obstacles encountered in succesac
fubly acocmp.ianing trat wadertaking. :

6. A fex cords of elabaration ere in order on tne four prunceding polate.
Because tne initial endeaver at clack evacumtion ly AUoAKK airs.alt avertad, we sere
given an oppartumity to see with great clar:ty tne apvileation of trese points. If
the attempt to evacuate by ALUAhK-easigned aircraft bad bees succeasful, teen
hmovledge of tne defection could nave been ield to approaimeteiy sis staff end
anaignes ailitary persone]. Because toat emienver uas unsueceseiul, at least ning
edditianal etarf and a. sitary pereunnel..became-gunerally or specifically avare of the
gattor, plus tne Consul General and one of his senior officers. Additionally one
private United States citizen, the senior Pan Amerioan official in rreakfurt, became
very sugh.seare of tnia sengitive cass. This ingrease im tie nusoer of tadlviduale
eGne about ef an imasdiave need late in tia evening of Saturday, 1b Decesber,
to use tro (Ceo etalfere ta @osiat in the asfenousing fimction, @ tutal of oix
SSTOPAR atarfere (deeumentation, graphics, photagrepuic) to prepare and issue.
Crawmleat aud alias passpurte, and an susigned enilated man to act ag & safencuss
Guard, The Cunsulate Venere) imd to affix visas to tue frautulent passports. - Tae
@est erucial ladividuel iavolved; however, wes the Pan American official wro to @

“Certain degree put his position in Jeopardy by being as cooperative on the aatter isa.

he wag... Witnout previously -having ¢loured-end briefed this official. {Hie sountere
part in TeA ie alse so cleared and briefed) the «ole undertaking would nave been
presided. It sould Lave veen iapossible to aeconpliah departure uithout gcousentae
tias.on @ commercial airereft. cithout the conmmivance of the commercial air}ine .
Amvelved. Indeed witn ausn cunnivance 1t was difficult and fisky enough. Finally,
the point sono~rning chaclescont equipwent apeaks for iteelf. headquarters ts fully
@uare of the feelings of thia Station concerning the inadeuuney for car purpones

of assigned alroraft. Suffice it te say that uhen defectors apparently of eignifle
ont values refuse te ride such aircraft <... eatter merite thorougt aticty.

]. The matter of “arens of stuly” appears to. us to cnoonpars at least te
fallextess -

a. Average ting differences
gomemtentions betseen 35 = Peniative gi
Qernan Station 1a extremely fortunate in naving Aw Su at
quarters. lt affords us @ tmoility for inatentanevus commmication., #a ean
make cortain rough eatisates as to hos long It might take eparcerinte Leade
Quarters offleials to @newer our queries end we can then approxiacte the
errival time of answera to high precedence traffic. Olner Stations, however,
do not have K-26 equipment, all do not nave the same type of oryptological

' equipment, ami there la @ different patterm as to the type of cireultry, 1.06,
direat leased Jinaa, tux, gtratent somercial services, eto. wa believe thers
fe merit in the appropriate Neadquarters undi Ginleavoring to group geogrtpiie
ieally Station and tien based on-the type cf oumnluations ard ‘eepptudogiaal
@quipaent and the channel of trainemiasion to cues up with prediotions a to
the average lengti of time the traneaiaeion of a priority or operational

' famediate cable would take cet«<con and among the variaua representative
groupings, In the oas@ under. study, waloh represented @ rather fast-reaking

‘eituation, £2 ves not pussibie for ua to ealineiv the ieaetuof tise 1% took |
to transmit an operavicual iamediate canle sateen pes Frankiuit.
3% Wadd Have ceen of vaiue to ve to have had some TG BREE e

d. Cuaniinatiua between U.S. Alc Atteutiog ant CUS. we délieve st vould
Be worthwhile to cequest each Chief of Statian in a location wnere tne Air

  
 

 
  
 

rom Sd Previous EDION. o PAQE NU.

‘
AEPLACES FORMS BRL REE

 

 
 

 

 

 

Sttecaent

identities

Bistritetion
ir cates
e Lt?
do RB afaten

 

ous
no $3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 

While im thin particular
etory eignt be othersise in a different set of facts.

@. Priority furctaning of treses. when @ Station is alerted to a request
to render operational support te tne noveaant of a defector and almultanecusly
onawers & request in the negative if 1t can furnish traces, the following
if Readquartere pussessea, and tiae peraite, «a

believe it worthxnile to fareard an innediate summry to the Station rendering
Guppert if the backgramd of the deiscter is such that it would be a aatter of
leoal interest. This would have been the case in ABLADLA. 4s subsequent bead=
-Gmrters cebricfing developed (and we aseumed it sould have “een disclosed 1a
{ Hendquartera tracen) ARLADLE had

procedure is worthy of study.

2 EE ee

Memo dated 18 Des 1951 b/w
eao/tap :

 

of the opinion that shen the statexent «as made
the plane was immediately availanle.
particular pienso in qa
was Sono Six hours after |

i9ECREE
RYBAT

 
 
 

C Palem Sub ena te

MUUP-14G04, 31 January 1962 |

 
 
 
 

 

Poree or Havy has an assigned attacho plane to establiah procedures whereby the
Air opr Maval Attache «ill advise COS of any. absenos of the attsone plane, the
point of designation of tne alroraft, and the duration of the absences ‘There
have been previous defections unsere attache planes «ere used :

This, however,

stated its intent to use that aircraft.

sattors eventually worked out sucgessfully the

 

‘UUE PEEVIOUS EDITION,
ATPLACES POMS
94-78, 41-2BA ANG S499

BCRE®?

 

PeetLiiA

rAuE

 
 
   

pe
oye

i

4

 

  

 

 
    

() UNCLASSIFICg =. og
Li . ta eee

          

            

      

NJ kh a

‘“ Vg

r Nene LH At Vy
4 ay : 4"5 Wyle dil
: : RA84N ye. CME RE NE o
‘f THRE RR WLLL LLL |
fi SEACH
gi Be a:
‘a a
oF:

 

610 “Rae

a) OC ASORED |
Soares noes) Ce

tom
Some 86

 
oa tOteo-t0r3of.

e

BO0F-J4008, 93 Jemary 1yS9

EBBEETY & 43 er. duase Brena
* 6 Br. o 8 OODUrStY Officer
Lops Gree Hestqariers, ‘ oer

  

 

sepecl,
omer ee ae

OT ee ain yy neem

 
 

th) CSCASSIFIED atte ~ = + (©) CONF -ariat (X) SECRET

         
 
 
   
 
   
 
 

 

 

: ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ‘ i
: . 3
ef OT- j4oot :

£ ‘oan 5

© en rq) a, b2.

b Ce oom camer, wd COMMENTS {Peumter cock tensed to chee bes wbem

' & whem, Srow @ tm amuse eotemn che eoch comanas )

l ane eet gE |

: pels

 

  

__ BE feo &

 
 
 
   

seJ! 3 egy O08 ght
ee a arayed fies gett
a 21, he Hhaffest ABP ove

, yy Bd : . :

  

 
 
   

 
 
  

     

   

  

A
Vi
CNAs unietasstrigo A

Lice Lok. ie GO VRRUEMEIT PRINTORG OFFICR: 1908 -OrR i i

    

tn O10 ae

 

QO

she ®

 

Ql sécrer CONFIDENTIAL

 
 

Chlef, ma ee
Cnief, gh ({(ATTH: Sherman G. CUSICK)

Coief, oo (ATTN: Leonara ». SACKET?)

CATE a
31 Jamary 1962

AE "63" — CHECK “I” ONE!

Y |
: Hy

 

i
L. 1 guggest that the story of ASLADLE, fram the momest ne walked inte the .
home: of Martin A. KOODINE wotis be wen wafely under alisha custody im tne United
States, deserves compiling, analyais, aad publication in the fors ef an Uperse.
tiomal Aid. It rionly iilustrates the asnay probless snich aust and can be sure
aamted, and could be highiy imitructive te Guiefe of Station ia all eamtries
shore the axt Soviet cefestor algnt appear.

 

“@. Were ie the Frankfurt contribution (written at ay requeat) to gush 6
compilation: a elif hanger from atart to finan, but alse e Gunmentary on tne
wang types of prebleas snhich oan arise, amd tae fect timt..st tases hard wark-and --
@illful iaprovisstion te salve tres. 1¢ was @ cliffhanger botn before aod after
the Frenkfurt chapter (1 nominate KOUDLME for ® Bodal fer hie part) aad aught te
aake excellent reading.

ot . : .
_ Je Phe handling|of defectors obviously te not s new responsibility to the

German Station, The fic
raat id

OME facility wnich existe primarily for the receipt, .
eatablionzent of

08, dedriefing, and resatticuent of defectora has exlated

|

here for the lest decade, for is the movement by biacx.evecuation-of-operatianal- -

personnel a unique task for ue tc perform, We have aquanplished tiie many tines wily.
by use of cur.cep, intograted WUSIT facility and also by the furnicning of alias ! yo!
Goounentation to the person of interest and acceaplianing the transport via .

Scheduled MATS flights. The significant points which aade tne ARLADLE case unique .

may Rover again ta their entirety be duplicates but in part they mny well be,
ané therefore should be enumerated: .

a. A Soviet diplomat, and member ef the KIS, stationed in @ none
_ Satellite but politically senaitive country, whien at the tine cs AaBLADLB'’=s ~ i
defection was wider conaiderable Soviet pressure. : .

b. {ne fact that the actual atrowmtences ucncamice bir st of |
‘defection were such thet an imedicte desigion by tha aa on tas scene ned
to bo ande to take advantage of the opportunity.

©. The fact that little altercative could be given, under the facts
@s described in (a) above, exsapt to believe the defector's statements
Gad soquiesce in his deemndm, i.e., be possessed information of a significant

ané perishable nature and vould disclose It conpletely only upoa arrival ia
the United States. :

a. The feot that anes the coumitmets in (co) above wore wade every
Feasonable effort had to be made to acocummodate the defector's demand.

; %. in order to accomplish all this an untried mathed of evacuation, £
Dlack evacuation via commeroial alroraft had to be accomplished in order to
suosessfully proceed with the undertaking, , :

4. A retrospective analysis as to how this case ccuncnoed, '

' festersa connected with it as snumsrated &bove, lead ge to suggest for Headquarters
study what 1 refer to as “!indings” end “areas of ‘atudy,” that 1 have Lsteles aa
“rindings® in effect represent facts vhich, Lf not aru eit, quite probably sould
have deprived us in Wormany of participating Suscssslully im the sovement of the
ARLADIS family. The “areas of etudy," on tha other hand, represent either anseare

able questions or matters in areas wnerein operational disgussions may well take
place to soe if same type of school-book aolution can be devised, ,

and the unique

 

5. 1.will elaborate below, where appropriate, on some of these “findings” but . Y
will firet record thems oe : ; SOY, OUTIL 0) .
Ce 2 ldate :

¥

 
