74-00000

Page Two
#210 838

4, The. cover story to be used by Agent ‘during

the installation is that he is working on the house at the
of the leasor, Washington real estate agent, Mr.’
> Mr.[~Psupposedly maintains

the house for a New York lawyer in‘order to billet the latter's
transient clients. Case Officer MATT has engaged a maid to
clean up the house Mondays and Thursdays; however, she cau be
told to stay away if Agent eeds to do work there on
those days. It was also disc ¥ requested. by the undersigned
of Case Officer MATE not to kibbitz too mich while the techni-
cians are making the installation.

 

 

 

5. It is expected that the audio results of this type
of coverage will be superior to the results of the previous
"radio" phase. The only complication will be in servicing the

 

recorders on a timely basis. ——. ZA) ;
Con 4\ fi
Ramon R. Hart
ce: $252 529
ig

 
 

. _ SECRET °

18 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM : Mr. Ramon R. Hart
SUBJECT : Manuel F. ARTIME Buesa
#210 838

1. The first phase of the audio surveillance of the
Subject at the SAS safehouse in Bethesda has been completed.
The Subject left Washington, D. C., on 13 July 1963. The
owner of the listening post, Mr.{~ a0
moved out of his house, bag, baggage, and furniture, on
12 July 1963 enroute to an overseas PCS assignment.

 

 

2. Mr. Charles MATT, the case officer in this case, has
advised that the Subject, along with a Cuban companion, Mr.
Rafael Aurelio QUINTERO Ibarbia (#252 529), will return to.
Washington, D. C., to be billeted in the Bethesda safehouse on
Monday, 29 July 1963. Mr. MATT has fervently requested audio
coverage of the downstairs bar and telephone and the main floor
living room at this house in order to monitor the Subject's
conversations with QUINTERO during the absence of SAS case
officers. : ,

 
  
   
    
 
   

3. The case was assigned to the District Field Office,

and Special Agent ___bwas designated as responsible
agent. It is Ag ti _____\plan to place microphones in the
downstairs bar and the main floor living room and a tap on the

 

garage. In that latter space, which will be kept locked, he will
set up two regular AC-operated tape recorders to be actuated by
e two VOR's obtained from Franconia and paid for by SAS. Un-
Belnown to the Subject and his companion, a case officer will
ve to service this equipment whenever an opportunity presents
itself.

   

GROUP 1
fran

  
