 

Soper

Gallerretta is a friend of Odon ALVAREZ de la Campa,
Counselor of the Cuban Embassy, Madrid. According *
to AMWHIP, ALVAREZ who was usually known by his first
name Odon, is also anti-Communist or at least anti-e
regime, and can be trusted to the same degree as
Gallerretta. AMWHIP stated that Odeon had been a
Communist for a aumber of years but during the past
three he had turned against the regime as a result
of what it had done to Cuba, AMWHIP stated he had

‘heard that Odom had had this change of heart: froa
‘Bany people.

©. Luig SOTO Andraca, Vice-Rector of the University
of Havana. m queried, sta at he no
Ow » Who was mentioned in the operational traffic
from Madrid as being fully witting of AMLASH's plans

recall any details about the man, nor could he identify
this man with the Subject Luis SOTO.

ZARRAGA,. etter in question was receive vy GA
fron JINJAUMA, stated that certain dissident and pri-
marily DR types were ready to take action against Castro
provided their personal safety and future means of gub-
Sistence were guaranteed. It named AMWHIP/1‘'s friend
Marcelo (Harzo) ARTIME Vega as the channel for trans~
mittal of these guarantees. ZARRAGA,/@& recalled, is a
former JURE member who had recently resigned. The people

‘involved in the letter, in addition to JINJAUMA, were

identified as follogs:
Captain (fnu) GIRON,
Luis FERHAND

EZ de la Camara (member of Fidel's Personal

. bedy guard)
Guillermo (Bi11ikég)
Garcia RIESTRA
AMLASH/1 s

Tony CAS

Faure CHOMON

In discussing the letter vith AMVHIP/1, he stated that
it was quite likely that thia letter was legitimate and

was unlikely that AMLASH/1 would have himself requited
guch guarantees. (C/O Comsent: We report this as told
to us by AMVHIP/1 but do feel that due to the closeness

 

e!
Caley

wnt ene ae etn tn He

 
 

1044073410424

 

   

21 September 1964

MSMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMVBIP/1 Meeting, 16 September 1964, New Work City

1. Meeting/Time/Place/Purpose. This meeting was held
in the offices of AMVHTS/T frou 1000 until 1130 and from 1230
until 1515. Lunch was taken at the office, It is noted that
there was only a skeleton working-force in the vorkrooms and
offices as the 16th was Yom Kippar. The purpose of the meeting
:was to identify one Alberto BLANCO Romariz, who had arrived
. On the scene in Madrid claiming to have a message from AMLASH/1,
“and to provide the necessary defensive briefing.

2. Details of Mecting.

a. Alberto BLANCO Romariz - Through a telephone call
toe ANLASH/2 In Wadrid, AMWHTP/1 determined that BLANCO was
fin fact "El Loco Blanco”, who was exoscted some time last
Spring to bring out a message from AMLASH/1. This rested
our minds somewhat as it had been thought thet it wee
possible Alberto BLANCO Rozariz might have been a DGI
attempt to establish the fact beyond doubt that AMLASH/1
was in touch with KUBARK. AMWHIP/1 was instructed to pro=-
esed with caution in any discussions with BLANCO, and not
to acknowledge the fact that he and AMLASH/1 were in fact
in touch with KUBARK. This restriction could be changed
Af he -was certain of BLANCO'’s bona fides and checked with
the Station first. (See cable traffic in AMWHIP/1 and

> AMLASH/1 files.) ,

De a AMLASH/2 ~ A/2 1s currently staying with Jose Luis
x, 4 , Attache of Cuban Embassy, Madrid

(eolophone 273-9687, According to AMWHIP/1, GONZALEZ vw!
7 + Was_usually lmown by bis matronysic Gallerrat a
‘camunist, friendly to AMLASH/1, a friend of ‘AMLASH/2's
- and who can be trusted to a reasonable degree (at least
te the point of not willingly compromising AMLASH/1).

soy

see renee acne eer re smaenemet ten eat a tn i en tenet nn nn tats ein ag ine Aen
 

1 tote mepet

of AMWHIP/1 and AMLASH/1, AMWHIP/1 may be allowing
AMLASH/1 the benefit of the doubt fn this case.)
AMMBIP/1 stated that he mew all of the people in
the letter except Captain (fnu) GIRON. He stated
that it had been quite Likely for JINJAUMA to write

vu» _te%Gallerretta as they had been, as were all the
“ ethers mentioned in the ietter, bhadé=peen members of

the old UIR group which functioned as a counter=-

terrorist element against Batista’s first regime circa

1944, AKMWHIP/1 stated that, in fact, Fidel Castro
himself had been a member of the UIR. AMWHIP further
stated that there was no dcubt in his mind that Fidel,
lmoving these men as he did, was well aware of their
antagonism towards his regime. Other members of the
VIR which AMWHIP/1 could recall were as follows:

f

if Marin DAPICO Antonio ‘
Gunde! Herminio Glaz (friend of AYMEGEIRAS)
Laureano ALVAREZ (presently in N.Y.C., Tel. LUdlow
; 90209)

Armando CORREA (presently in Miami)

Jesus DIEGUEZ (presently in Miami)

two PARSONS brothers (presentiy in Miami -
Other data unknown)

ZARRAGA of course was also a member of the UIR. AMWHIP/1
stated that the most influential senbers of this group
were had been JINJAUMA, Fernandez de la CAKARA,

Billi , and possibly Marin DAPICO. AMWHIP/1 stated
that thi people were action types and were reasonably
close®-imit so far as their loyalty to each other and
im tura the organization was concerned.

@. AMWHIP/2 was also asked to elicit from AMLASH/2
any information which the latter might have concerning
Cuban officials with their hands "in the tili" or other-
wise knocking down on the Governuent, and/or putting money
away in foreign banks.

3. Finances.
AM@HIP/1 was given a token gift of @ box of 50 cigars

in appreciation for the amount of time he freely devotes to

KUBARK business.

his opa exvenses in the past and for the coming trip to Europe.
It was thought, by the wag; taat A $2000 or more would have been

arene ables es en a Heer nne teen tat ment esectetnes Senet cents werent ent astrtiy een et femmes ma ey 8 tat +

 

Be reluctantly accepted the sum of $500 against

 
74-00000

   

foe. ” SECRET -
. | j -

wee eaten be

a wuch sore realistic figure to have given him, Howevers as he
has alvays in the past, he is reluctant to accept money for
his services or for his expenses inc .rred. on. KUBARK's behalf.

He did admit, however, that he would probably again be touched
for a “loan” by AMLASH/2 and as he laughingly stated these "loans”
Citi habitually Lpreituc forever. We also estimated that the
varicus transcesaalc pucie cails he has made in his. behalf, the- -
expenses he will incur in entertaining AMLASH/2, Robe: BLANCO,
UNSNAYU/19 and others will easily exceed the $500 he has ry
advanced. A signed receipt was obtained.

4. Security : Gike

There were no incidents of a security nature to report
as stated above. There were very few people in the offices due
to the fact that today was Yom Kipper.

A

gpg

 

 

 
