(tostoros-t0t65)

 

°

. MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

. ve . - . ¢

“ 19 Novémber 1976

 

FROM : Walter T. Lloyd
Associate General Counsel

SUBJECT : Werbell, Michael Livingston, III

1. This is to record the substance of a conversation between the
undersigned and Mr. Arthur Egbert of the Internal Security Division of
the Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice, on 16
November.

2. Mr. Egbert advised that William Walker, DEA agent assigned
to the Werbell prosecution in Miami, Florida, had suggested Egbert contact
the undersigned to obtain background information concerning Werbell
incident to an investigation being conducted by the Internal Security”
Division of DEA. The undersigned arranged to call Mr. Egbert back’at
his office (phone No. 382-1096). In the interim I confirmed his identity
throug nd that he has been in touch with the General
Law Division of OGC incident to the King case. Egbert suggested his files
contain only newspaper clippings concerning Werbell and he is in need of
more particulars. I confirmed that we have considerable information on
Werbell but suggested DEA contact the Department of Justice and the FBI
to obtain data held within the Justice Department. I pointed out that toa
very large extent materials we possess are also possessed by the Depart-
ment of Justice and, in particular, the FBI.

3. Egbert expressed appreciation for the suggestion and indicated
he would contact the FBI and obtain the records possessed by his Depart-
ment. I suggested he might contact Morton Sitver and Charles Jaffee of
the Narcotics and Dangerous Drug Section of Justice who had discussed
with us the prosecution of Werbell in the DEA case in Miami. In addition,
I suggested that there are established liaison contacts for DEA with the
Directorate of Operations and with the Office of Security through which
information we possess can be obtained in a routine manner. Otherwise,
if he had any difficulties or needed specific assistance he should contact
the undersigned.

Walter IT. [loyd
Distribution: - .
Original - OGC SUBJ: LIT. CRIM. ~ Werbell, Mitchell L.
1- WTL Signer

 

 
