   

 

14-00000°

) . . os eo, le we -. ~ a cn.  wenegetrersbe memarpahanseseemmgcapemenn,
a "044g nud enile of snforoas. on (cont) Art Mana ES
a a Aa eo “ Cove

 

hove been goapclled at thia stage to aeck s gore ,opule? dabed

for ita econsade and socdel peddedes.. . . If this coaadttaent io te
be sore than » design to steal the opponents’ clcsteral thusdes, the fy
Gongreas Governaents at the Gentre and in he gtates have '

sand iovely to eet about the task of translating tho mew principles
Anto policica, . . . Fhe only way to take the polisy of Gongreas
Governnenta ecoord with Gongresa principles ie solf eriticdem and

et thore were recponaible Gongresazen at Avadi who sau

eager even in the condeanation of nalpraetices y Gongriseasae

eo « » . Phe roed to full enployaent <- for which tho Gomgresa has

for the firet tiag 1s4d down e time-limit - » ia by no geags Gaaye

It degapda e coapXeto roanovetion of iife in the countryside on the one
hen@ and speedy industrialisgtion making the country aa ealfe
eufficiont ne possible on the other. (eta.)
Bagest of OF
RE ee TE nhs BpEean on Tans 24th.

|
|

lat aS

 

He spoke of the unsuitebdlity of totolitardonisa in the denooratie
Ropublie of India and the dngdoquacy of ca dtalien, stating that
there waa left only e Soodaliatia approach open to the courtry.

He statoa thet the aceoptense of the Socdalistis society as send
meant the antionalisotion of institutions thet could igecdiat ely
Bationaliacd with pdventogo. Phe presughion ig so deing, Haid
Ur. Geobruskh, waa that Soadolined produotion would be ote
peo?itable, Ha, hovever, cautioned that 4¢ experfense balded that
view, the otep aight have to be retrzccd,

@

Ho otated that a Socdalistio IJdcal which rogeived the support
of tho people could achieve the tuo objectives of increseing
getional ineoe end onhancing individual davadend,-

He otated that Indie had eatablished egonoade atebility though
at a rather low lovel of prosperity during the fésat Plea period.
fio caid the eredit for the ochéaveacss wend RS Borely to esenoasa
RoRsgeacat end planning but inanded other fad; stay anong thea
acciotence froa fricadly nations. The United States, he sai Q
had contributed the largest share of foredga gid,

°
Removed from reosooe( PVP L (PKK
CS Clasgiticatied: AE
caeniess. soe ob 0 ee g7”

Boxn Fol 3
ies Sindds ond fir. Uodan (pravate oeoretarp of Mra. Geadbita
and reseption clcris a& Prime Udniotcsia Eouse) over a eoa7
Gup of tea in thedy qaarters told Gi tho ¢ ovdng atory,

Ubile an Ghina, at firot big bangics gdven thea, Hp. Aste end
h4s egnghtcs (and othera) wero carved tang baby 24v0 Eiee
Capped honsy. Ure. Gandhd (his Gaughter) wos co ehockc3
conde eee eed at the ofghs ehé turncd ,way7. Hone ef thea
ot Lac7o w 3
while thoy wera in Ghise. Bo Ho’ over oaived agedn to thea

 

dence omen mee EEE
. . ~ . 7 oo MEMO Gy NT ORFS ete D aI
glo - a ee Per(NOoesibus -
' —

Genera. lommente. (continued.)

5. 4 very good projext hao ragentay bee: inunched, It de
“ griied Phe Dalhi freining ond Orient.tion Gentes for

Poroign Teehnici: ne in Indie. Tiis ia the sceond time At

hoe been held, I think, it beging today, Jan. 24. Gontimnes
for two weeks, (The first one worked out e fine shors
bibliography on Indias and a littic brochure on "Feeds
evellable in North India.) This second course covera

the Indien villpge, with visita out to villyeges, Indian

art, erchitesture, dance; Indian history; rellgtony Yelan

in indiay other religions and ;hilooophieo; Indian fendly
life and customa; kealth probsens and res trecas educational
problenss urben probleag; rurel une:ployment and eid, the
role sf foreign rid in India; diecussion of the Pive Year ;
Plan, ure

nda oe

Xt je the kind of briefing that ey-ry foredgne Soming to
Indie, Shousd hnve, It 18 open to eli of then/ we were
devited sinply es guesta and shaii attend sang of the aeetings.
Pdias sre ehown; trips to art galleries and auseuma, eto,
Mise Hereey has hed sucl. to do with this; sleo Dr. bouglas
Eetinger. And srobrbly othere, too, Indians will do zoet

of the briefing, .

6, i ehell write later aout the Five Year Plan. am etdld £3
otudying 4%. Shell have a number of interviews with the e
planners, or with « few of thea. Shall elso go out on aeveral #
of the projeots. Thia seeag inportaat to ue for soesak
changes and how they sre made tre o3- The politdeal
pdoture’ oan aert-inly not de tnderstood ff the cultural ard
eoedel pdeturae are not atudied and analyzed sarefully.

at

We «re enclosing » fea excerpte of

Sv. Nehru, ur. Menon, anc Yr. Uheber
Gongreses Purty Lue: Lag.

seahea aade by 4
£ poet weak at the

  

    

  
14-00000.

 

   

ee MO INS ae LOS A EH TET ETT te

ce ee ete

AA A A RH api (tus
odéq end Ende of Information; °
FERN .

Hy Piob.told ae that the Goagunisto are organising the |
Gonestia corkers of New Delhi . Lest woes there was a 4
geating 2° oyaha at Emdda Gato colied togother for this

pur oe, The waex bef ro the bearers (er tho oven ae)

vere gelled together, The Communista are godng about 6 dn

s chrosd way; making very reasonable denanis, euch 16 o bal?

day off ach woek, n rise of perhaps 4 or & cea a nonth :
in wagag, 4 Gouminist dn every home will really be somethings

He srya there is iittle petivity of Gongross perty of Soeislist (

party enong Ilsbor groups. The work da be done by

Gousurists., fPhey, sonehow,’ Reve the soncy ao thes

organs satinal work whise there is little sonogy ansng reguiar

workers Gua to weakness of dnduatry, suell meabar ond low wages

ys of the vorkerayd.Ho io troubled over leak of ootavity

esong the desoerrtfa groupa in isbor c4relcs. Saya he hse been

here cniy 3 sonths end @rnnot cea yet saa the picture clearly.
y
H

Fhe state Dept.ts coldness about peradtting fncidea to vhodt
the -iracn do Ghina g: ve the U. S. a very bad presa out here.

it woe very clover otrategy on the part of Ghinoy &t uno bed
strategy on our part to appear cadlous to the feclings of the
festlies, Famiiy affection rugs deep out here, It another
ene of our many eaoil biugdera which sonchow loom so large

when viewed the hundreds of aillions out here., If, sonehou,
averytody eéudd count up to ten before spoaking, end think 20%
how China is going to tele 46 but how tho entiro area of aoa
ill resot. Those faaildes Gouad have becn told quictiy end
personelly thet if they wanted to go they vould not be protested
by an Aasrican Prooporsy they co.ad even have been scerctZ

unged not to goy but tho Mlatant preas rolenoce. . . . Forgive ay
eGitorielising, J aa sure X am not suppoacd to Go St; tod ome fa
vary Gleae here to the sind and heart of 4340 end onnnst help
boing ruare of these reactions of the peuple. anyone who loves
the U. So. oennot help but oish thet mcm our o;oltesaen could aneek
core Coftly end nore tnotfully, a braggort or bully is dialfike

7 el tasa bedngsa. To have strength fs fines to brendich that
etrangth offends. .

  
  
 

The fines of India (Jam, €6) has exocllens editorial oa the o53
secialistia socdety gonk eg outifised by Debru and Gongresa Parts
leaders. "Doe3 Avadk mark a revolutionary ehafs in genres pe.
eo» 0 «© All that At seams vas en acknoclcdgacnt of the fs 2

4asustrdel poldey resolution. Phere was n»thing to Sndisase that
there wovid be ey mew eagroaghaent on the sphere resaried Go
private enterprise, and the fosrs expresocd cutside the Congres
on thet score were, therefore, unjuotafiod, Boither tas thera
eny justification bor the apprehension that the new ckgestiva
geen’ a redical departure fro. the fomrss S4ead. 6 o o Gass
mattered really unas not the Labal € t Bos given the aco CFSE o=
tat the extent to which in aotual preotise it eould re

the production of greater wealth end in its wre eqaitakia
Gistratutieas - « URat fas oignifdeant . . . Eaa that Lt should
SNE eG see SEO) aR er ad,

EG SE EAE SREY

    

te

TUBE. CARD ,REPRODURTIONS

    

 
coe cantata fete at eae

wees na aman en ee

debrlefing cf T

 

La May 1955

  

 

York to handie the preliminary

1. Frior to my departure for ew
he foliowitng subjecta with CMKA@5:

MERTAULT, 1 discussed

     

    

i} In view of the fact that iIAULT's expenses on her recent
‘rip te Initia have been ereater n was anticipated, °1,000
aijitional funds have or are te te shortly deposited te her bank.
Trig will be done by sterile check. It {s to be accounted for

cnder the terms of the original centract.

o:
t.

  

2) CNRA-5 gugpested that ' wre per reports up with me for
pesaible annetation and expansion. Upon exarination on 14 May,
this avpears unfeasible in view of the fact that there are cra

como ‘indicators and RI symbole attached directly to the reports.

 

3) GNEA-5 suprested that © pursue with THEKiAULT the
possibtlite of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing
a cleared publisher who could request Menon to write a book, This
uw preach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.

 

4) CNEA-5 sugcested that THERIAULT be asked to review the
areas of her inflvence in order to lay the groundwork for an
official invitation to visit this country being extended to th
Irfee “4nister in the future. ve suggested Sen, George and

Chestar Bowles ag possipie points of departure.

THER TAULT is te be informed that her reports have been
surable agsgistanee te the Ambassador end to the U.S.
ent vis-a-vis policy zlenning for India.

 

 
 

or

Gevecny.

   

6) THERIAULT ig to be asked t> come to Washington for a day
or sc in the very near future for further debriefing. This te

to be arranged at her convenience, Fa
L=)
7) In view of the fact that THERIAULT has been umitting re
of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that T 2:
new make ner witting in terms of the asourity involved. It 2.
seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be a)
future contacts with TIVRIAULT., CNEA}5 agreed to this. &/
‘ &,
2) THERIA'LT ig to be advised that she is at liberty to al
digeuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the 5;

@ ception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it.

02. ‘

Peroved from Projec par ibfEk Eg

cs” iass atiom: AOA wi

SECRET Se rll CES §.

Foldu F =

 

sont

 
itoort-t0tzy

 

 

woe

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only - - ?
+ Do Not Reproduce

 

TO opie, NEA (2-22 DATE __14 Hay 1955

FROM Senior noprosontative,( |

vy
’ GENERAL Opsrational/ INTEL
SPECIFIC CPLPLIPPER = Gransmittal of Raporte
of

3, Treaamitted herewith are copies of THAR IAVLT reparte and notes
os listed bolov, Hot inoludod are carbon copies cf tho initial report
(plans undated) and the report oovering the period 28 Deceaber - 14 January
ag the third copy waa not nado, .

2, @HERIAUL? requested thst, if posaidie, a set of his report bo
made available to him on his returo to facilitate preparation of a master
roport om overall findinge and impressions. / v

A

®poaas ¥, LIND

Enclosures Under separate cover
(Poucked 7 Hay 1955)

 

“G4 Jon ~ 23 Jaa view 7 ber
25 Jen = 30 Jan (8 Kor = 16 Kar
30 Jean ~ 8 Feb v18 Kar ~ 30 Mar
“F Yor ~ L7¥od Interview with’ ULB. THARAR y *
10 Ped (1 pp) Bape ~ 12 apr” "
20 Fed - & Mar Notebook
oe
Distribution:
Orig & & = Hye
9 Kay 55 2 - Filos
oc
8 Bary y

  

GE 51-28 A

 
. : :
PR ER EEE mm se tT TE VOI LEPC ABT oe

f eon see meet eg ee
_ 4 2 SRERTT
es a es

®°) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done,
suggested that 7 plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May -
‘ede becomes neces-ary. <n previous tripe te discuss
AULT's mization wit? her, I found that she frequently

“ad orher commitments which made {t difficult te cover
If this is the

 

adejnetely the material which 1 had amassed,
case on this trip, {7 should prefer not to press her. One
CNLA}5

day's latitude seema the better pert cf wisdom.

agreed, ve shall see, however.
Tn the event that it becomes necessary to reach me,

~ surcest that wife be asked to get in touch with me,
ob ( and that T be asked simply to call ny
wiil then call on the sterile phone. For the §
in ew York is £3)

ask
ae;

 

orfice. oT
record, my telephone numbe

 

 

 

 

03

 

SECRET

»
5 ian gene Op Sik? ge Frio IED

[PRE Saini mle Ree RE eo st abs EE Seat lan Tt

  

 

L .
! sé
poe MA

 

 

 

SOD .REPHODUETiONs

  

oe
Pe

de

26

Be

 

/

“o
v
Frojoot
payor
Polgg 3

-G8eslioat
66-66
Ne

Peonved frog

£

Jung

Boxt

4

 

 

jeneral Cozsents, |

1 beve no. taleed wath aany Ford Poundation .eopig@ and «

TO people, 43 dapresacd theds quality. They oro workicg
herd and are doing &t in a colfecffooing aanner. J have not heard
one critiodam of tea froma bade. There are a fou Guia, of cour
I hove not yot net tha. the? GF Shore ®to halp Ind&’a caxay Gat
ber projceta and her ideas? po one put ibe and they seca te Co
G@ not only dewocraticnsdy but with a very reed vwareth and
syip-thy «= yot they otoy quietly in the background nmd take none
of the aredate But I feal nore .trongly exch week J am hore

thet the work 4a g0l44 and ig having Smmentously geod effeat in
rolieving tenaion end hostility between the two countricao fhe
resuite of the pgtuad work Are apppren’ now and hope bes recently
dncreased enong Indienay aleo their exe self-confidensa, when
confidenae ineren: 28, consitivenese deorersea, of courses

Fro. ail I hove picaed up, the feeling Ja widesprond that
rmbreandGor Allen did » good job out here. ag one put At, The
van exeetly right for the period he waa herey just so Boukes
was right for the special problesw of his two yeare.®
Both inddan end .iordeons highly raise bath aca.
w@ have a prize dn Evelyn Heresy and soaghody gho thank God
every night that ghe da hero, She and. end Wf sacP a¥e
the noe Lor laved suericens in north india, certrinly.
tvelyn Hersey iginown throughout India. Sho vag Soéinal Welfare
nétreho rt tho “nb-asy beginning I thins in 1948. The only cas
attached to a cabs say anywhere, I understond. Her tors tao
to interpret the social ch: nges talsing pace Sn Indgag to beosad
ware of the needa ang probiezs and kow these needs and problezs
were boing ist; »né to offer hor serviecs end her experiensa
wheacver or wherever 4t wea asked for. When the odministratica
eh nged, she wne die alaced spublidean ba the grounds that this
unc a néw ddeag nobody elee had ever done such a thing, that ia
nv other foreign serviog snd eo why shouvld the U.Sedeo 4% Hr.
talents urgent insiotenas, che wag sent baek, this tine unler
the »ogis of T&{- She is, however, doing the eeao jobs Eer
anfivense is very wide; cho Zo sdaired end loved by literally
thous:nde of Indians froa the high echolons dowa to the avew@era
ano vther horijens. whe do cslied on for e:vice 4a mmercss
ficlds and by very high off4csala,. Sho vorka banind tho eccucs
and fools thet her tork vould be fruined were she given oredas
for what sho hos actualiy done. sho ds vivid ond fall of lige
end one would hardly -all her sedf effacing; and yot her woss
4c done alaoct anonynouealy, J heave been areund her enough to sae
how wido her od4rele of Inddan friends 453 end how econatentl;
rod contintou sy they etresa throughs her house, She goes edi ove
indie. Hse trsvelicd mush sore than 209 thougernd miies.. She say
in reocat tontha she ha: felt absolutely no sutegonica toward her
ea rp agerdorn, she is ohrewd, hee sherp eyes and aarag bs
knowleSzable polation liyg 4s nobody's food) 49 strongly antie
consuntst 5 4s warahe rted and int cotually Bexible. one of
the best ainda J heve run 4nto since coning owt.
Fy
1 edgh «3 had fave tines the peo~le FGM. oreeuld
wwoid pabaties, Ethan te fo doe” coy MG Orr

Posed yeh Pe tp Foe

fra bh Boe Neaee, &
ae pay \

e. coe

 
