 

  

*s,

GUTIERKEZ was a suapected Communi st and that, his close association with ‘
Communists such as Corina RUDRIGUEZ end Eunice JDIO strengthened the

eusploion. ea aa

. 7. Ina rather complicated. document ptember 1950,
which vent tof aeuiwes tal tha Coloabian
National Chief’ a: Vea; loe RUDRIGIEZ Telles reports on arms

ehipments in Costa Rican territory which aro rumored may be intended to
reach Colombia. He waa sent to Costa Rica und made a general report
covering the arma shipments, the involyment of the Caribbean Legion, the
infiltration of the Legion by Communists, and the Costa Rican Communists
who were involved. Disouseing the Costa Rican Communists who had been
obliged to essk sanctuary in Guatemala, Mexico and Venssuele, he listed
Eunies ODIO, Costa Riean poet, Communist agitator, residing in Guatemala.

 

8. No other information ooncerniny Eunice ODIO is available at
headquarters. Aleo, there 1a no confirmatiop Of the allegation that
Eunioe UD1U had been the mistress of Jacobs ARBENZ,

Aer)

e owt lan

 

. ; oS
ae ae [o ;

- \

ease wee we

 
9104-10071-40204

        

 

 

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

aIR D:SPATCH NO. WSSU 12

 

 

  

  

Core an 08 $8 rove > - ae “4 —_ ~ : 2
| ae . |
: . CLASSIFICATION : | -
: Ni FR
DATES nee
, Chief of Station oe :
FROW Chief, WH . yo
SUBJECT. GENERAL. : ‘. \
. i )
SPECIFIC. E oo: Dre ee va
1. Reference ie made to your cable “4h, concerning Eunice Id, a
_ 96, 1 Ostober 1947 atated that emong verious prises given by tho
Tha Goverment for proses ani pootry, ons ~ was avarded,in tho

last week of Septembsr to a young Costa Reap ea
<a
i 2. During her stay in Ountemala City receiving ths avtard,
| Saftorita (D1U gave tvo recitations of ne Was
. i assembly hall, end the second ‘ore the Racilty of Humanities af
: ths San Carlgs University. Figre, : by Yhe Guatemalan post,
: Migusl Ange}/ ASTURIAS. s\ v SoM we .
3. Mee O10" etyle te adetineth) Foydian. This 4s not strange, as
abs is a very ective Gammnic a cay Beane ea oe ee arian

Comnmist Literatdss veal, - huge! flostes—-to which Corina Rodrigues
also, belongs.

4. Bunioe aio bee Yeckesel oY tn 1947 as being about twenty-five years

personality is pleacing, ami her voise, whieh ia the moet attrastive feature,
easily captivates har awilences, because of its low soothing Yond.

5. Her fanaticien for the causa of Cammmnim ani her vork and offorts
| are, fully approodated Wy the co-called Polithure of the Varuisio Yeager

 

 
  

  

Popular in Costs Rica. oo oo ‘
6. 3 1BW28367, 21 Bovenber 1947, montionsd a letter written voy
’, ann: af “Se Costa Rican sakes to Waghingtoas. £
yousg.
ay
=) D3 Cae x
AL om 2 “ Cee, S.

      
 

 

f. | CLASSIFICATION

FF - COORDINATING OFFICER AUTHE fa

 

 
