 

 

  

   
    

OT SSEM

 

 

 

 

i
|
| 7o-= en
i . i |
|
' 6. The tafermation contained in this nemerandua
| emi the atteciments hereto cones fron extremely aensie
i Cave sources and ghould reective ne further dissentzs=.—
-o[ .. ..4-. @02 ip ehole or in part cuteide your office watsout
rn on | priey approval of this Agency. i
oo
€BC1~3/780,703 :
i . ; '
Attachments:
Bik, ta hove ! i
| "ee: Eupartaent of State, w/natts. ; :
' ie
: :
: UH/3/Kexico/C. Bustesiard ; 1 April lees j
Dictribution: pasic: |
! Gig. eT: Addreasea . BEYA=22075. Cone | :
1 ” . = State : { _—
i i = RE (2012-22876), v/o atts, KO PROJECT !
: l= CY/UIA, w/O atts. :
‘ = CI/PSA, w/o atta, ; {
i i - UL/S/Nerico, w/o atts.
i 1» WH/KEEI, w/o atte. |
i Re WA/R, w/o atts, : , 4
| 2 = EL/C, w/o atts. : : :
| le Wa/ BA sfuserson, w/o atte.

   
  
 
 
  
  

ey 1 = 82/6/ii/idadgren, w/o atta,
co Le BE/YA/Young, w/o atte.

Co-ordination:

t
|
{
i
|
| .
RE/YA/Young (in draft)
. i oe (im draft)
aa re ae : (im eragt)

 
 

   

 

OF.

DR. minanes

wo OGN

 

  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
    
    
  
 

Atteehment Ci Heumvramdum for the Ambasesacer
@lao sent to the tounseler far Public. affaires),
-@ated 16 August 1930, ceneerning travel of nexie
ean atuceats te Yugoslavia, Tsia report was
dinsouinated at Headquarters in Th¢5-3/648,415,

&ttachsent b: Memorandum te the Anbassador,
Gated 16 July 1963, corcerning Station traces an
Huge Tlie KSLERLEX, ake Ungo Tio dolencden.

(Ams exnct cepy of this menorandusn was furnished
tke seting Logal Attache on 1d September 1153.)
Paragraphs 3 amd 14 bave been celeted, as they
have oo bearing on tie bachpround of the USIA
request feo this ofiice for traces on Subject,
ang since the infaraitien eentaincd thera was

for the informticon of the jmianuader only in
cooneetion with ancthor semsitive matter. Llesse
mete that oar geprecestadive an Yesice City cays
du ¢hin monorantiuna tiet Subject is am infteymaunt
(delieved paid) of the Yugoslav Intelligence sere
vieo, Aid ts alee. cauneeted with volish aud |
Cuban Euhoasy officials,

 

Attschxent Et HNouoramdum to the Ambasuader
ea bubjact, dated ll Orteher Boaz,

Attachment Pe Meuorandum fer the Chie’, weea
Section, dsted @ Fehruary 1664, conterning &
gect’s vies application, ..

5S, The informatica coatatned im this mascrandua
elenvly gahows that, gccomwiing te reliable taformeation
gathered by ecaurces OF thig Agency, Lege TLIO volenden
has howm workiog G80 agiieting fer Cormamism and acnizet
the United States foxy yoara, both oponiy and clancege
tieely. TuLlO reportedly ans visitas Yegealavia sad
thar Soviet biec cmurtyles amd te zeowa ta have gore
to Cuba; it to Feliably reported that he received paye
ment from the Communists for travel no made to these
Comminist countries. Ne is am iaformant far the Yegoe
slaves, and alse is Emewn to Be im contact with Nikolai
& LEQUOY, o known BGR officer, ani with the Folish,

Geecn, and Cuban mebassies.

 

 
 

  

: @a. On 6 Gctobor 1983 a reliable source ania
i oo, that, secerding to Granko HILIGAROVIC, Lugo TULIO

:  Eelandesn wee one cf the direct-.xs of the Inatio
tute Henicame-Yugeslavo ang that, a8 such, rreeie
Gent FIFO should receive TULIO Helontex during
FITO's visit to Hexico, sleag with the otaer
Girectars of the-Institute.

   

: ee. Ga 50 Octover 1863 & reliable source re- ‘ | : *
: ported that Hugo TULIO Melendez contected HibelatL : ,
‘ . &. LOORCV, Cultural officer of ths Seviet mehazey . !
in Hexico, who fe am identified kuu officer. .
TULIO asked to have tims to visit sed tala at re
: length with LEONGyY over the posuibility ef the
H Seviet’s helping te supply bow and publice-
i tions to the “Xestituto de la Juventud toxicana.”
LZOMOY srenigzed te huve the desired diseuseica
with TULEO om and suid the Savicts would be
plonsed to supply books ond periadicaia te the
kaseiteze.

 

we

: 2f, Gn 4 February 10¢4 6 relisble source re-

perted that Ruge TULIO Melendes contectud- Jarestay .

is oe)” EBRBREEEY, of the Czeca Eskesay is temicoe City, to - vB as rpteanes ene

: tekk MUIshICUT thet be (TULIO) bad tke “dineursog™

i of Lic, Gustave DIAL Ordea aad would send these
$o KEBELENT. TFULIO furthes sade ikat o digner

: -- fer 4 Yebruary 1964 bad boom cancelled, but ke

i pind &aB appointuest to ace BUSRICHT we 5 Feleuary

e

  
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
    
 
 
       
       
   
   

3. The PErGrt coateinming the iniermiticoa in para=
eragh “a” was ciretiated to the dAabaseador; the reports
5a poragrapha oe," "hh, A "4a, we, nm, and “o" gere cizcus .
“lated to the AMDRAERROP 9 Politieal 4ifaire Officer, and
several Attaches.

4 The attached memeraada, prepared by cur repre=
sentative ie kexicoe City, were gives cistrilmtioa to
“the offices indicated oa each memovamium, These mente
Wands. cOMCerR Hage TULIO Holomies and Ala activities ia
BMSELGO.

Aattsehnont A: Heseorandus to the Office of the
Security Adviser, dated 14 December 1999. (See
paragraph 2 "3" shove.) -

Attschzont B: Kenorandun‘fer tho Ambassedar,
dated 30 June 19859, concerming anti-United States
activity of students at the 1 autonons ~
University of Mexico. SECR > il
 

 

. Source roperted that age TULIO delendes. hed

 

 

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

ve On 45 Jammury 2862 a upunily reliahe -
been arrested ("alezg with other Commmisate")

amd jailed Ser ¢he curation of the visit of

Presideat FRADO ef Feru to Bezico. Thin source
eaid that Huge TUL1O selendez and Alfredo RIO3
Camarenn (bo called them “Comauuiat students”)
bad been in touehk with the Yugoolay lebnes;y,
the Polish Ewbnsey, and the (ulan kubassy ia
Mexico. He said those twe hid visited Yugo=
@lavia, Polaud, the USE, aad Cubs, with “ex
pennies paid by these Coummnist governments.”

we Os 1% Februery 1901 reliahle sources
Peperted plana ar fiasardal arrasgencents fur
Huge TULIO Heleniez te visit tha soviet Unie.

sm. A weport of F Mave 1961, frog a scuree
of uniwown rolinbility, gaid that Knge TULIO
Belences, whe “had Commaist toudencies,” bad
seet returned from a wiait to (zechoslovskia,

y. 4 fateiy relioble source reparted on

a Oeteber 1261 that huge TLIO Helendes vas

one Of tho leadera of the Commusieat Mevimierto
é@ Liberncies Raciorw1 Gi) ai the Ration}
Usiveraity.

Ze hecerding to a reliable scurce, en
i Auggest 1082 a “Colonel Belendes,” wae caig
he was Lie father ef muge- TULIG kelegdsa Grho,
the Colunel anid, wae “plentesate identificadcs
con Ficel CSTE Fux) asved far un iaterview
wath Cuben Ambasosder Carlo: LECuiGA Bevin,

aa, Acearding te & reliable cmurce, ca _
32 sugust 1462 Kugo TULIO Heleadec spoke with
Hingta co SINORGE (wife of Hagen SIMOBAL, fore
ger Firet jecretery aad Charge 6’Attsires in
Regico, vhore ge engaged im Cubas intelligence
Betivities), of the Cuhag Rmbassy, to cay be
would arrive late at S1y0uaS" home. Iugo TULIO
Beleades gave hia hese address and said be had
to participate ia a “round table” at the pre-
paratery ecbool befaro coming to see the
SISOBASes - ,

 

 
   
 

  

 

 

 

 

by. On 8 Itsy 1965 a reliable source reported
that mgo TULIO Melendez infornes Granko wILI«
dhHOVIC (intelligence Officer of tue Yugoulay
Subassy) that be (TULJG) was urcble to meet
Banuel, the seeyetary of the Heat Cutters®
Union, teday becuuse Maavel bad to ge to Toluca.
Lago TULIO kelendes suggested that ho arraage
to bring “anuel to breakfast om 9 Key 1663 in
honor of “Comrade de LEON" amd let Manuel take
pert in this breakfast. HILIJANOVIC agreed to
have .« brenkfast at G a.m. On YW Lay 1963 at the
Earia isabel Hotel aud to have de LHUN there.
Huge apologized te WILIJANUVIC in advasce be-
cause be (suse) could kave arranzed slae to heave
bad tre leader Of tae miners, Filiverte EOLALARA
{phonetic}, who ig alee & Deputy im Congress, to
meet thes. Huyo TULIG ielendes ested Branko
MILIGARGVIE bow the meeting with Fidel VELAmUEZ
Qwegicent of the Confedersetc-: de Trabajacores
Hosgieanos ~- CTH) weet, asd Branko said that he
and & LEON Eeé a very cordial meeting with
VEMASOURS free 16:15 to 11:30 a.m, om FT Bey 1863.
ie BAG that ce LECH sreaks Apanish amd get rieng.

well with Pidvi. Lugo them caid that cn

23 May 1863 be wiki bave loneh vith Presicent
AGOLL LAPEL Yateos and, in addition ¢o tkat, he
bas gore very impottant thisgn to vépert ta
Broneo, fwrasko tuterrupted iugo suk gaid that
these reports ‘bheuld be told to me when we ewot
peracaniiy.” Ugo TULIG selendus offered te ine
treduse Lvanke to tho leacer of the FuSTER ational
tates (mica of Geveriwsent Kuployces). ego dee
geribes this organization aa heviag 17,000 sexbers.
Muge said test be knowe ite lenders well and dadie
eated he can be Of service to irausko here &les,

ce, dAccerding to s relisble source, On 10 my

3903 Huge TOLLG Kelendoz contacted Branke MILIo

SAHOVEC end reported that be bad succeeded in
eomtacting Alfrede BUILCO dorene (r&0 is known by
our representative in hoxiceo to ps a contset of
tea Yugoulay Eeptcay). Mago TULIO Melendez suge
geuted that trey meet at 7 poem. o8 14 Kay 1963 at
the “Cagn de le Cultura del Imutitute.” Branko
said he would coasult his Ambassador and would
then let Hugo mnow 12 such u mecting were all
Fight. They later. arrunged.a meeting for. 1-p.m.
om 30 May 1563. Pp

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
74-0000

 

 

hv
be

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

6. is Prensa, 24 June 1959, cited mugo TULIO

~ elerndez a@ on@ Of the speakers at a rally at the
. “buditerio ce tiumsnicades” who syoke against dic=

tatters is latia Americe.

e. & report dated. 17 July 1955 reported in
Field Comment 3 that mugo TULIO Kelendez attonded
ecrenonice in counmectioa wita the tanuguration of
Bumser echool classes at URAH. Luring these cere=
monies «- and with Laited States Agiansader Robert
C. HALL on the platform -- Buyo TULIO telendcez suge
Gealy got up on the fistiorm and began to make a
wyeech attacking the United States and ite policy
toward Latin america, hugo TULIG deleaagez eas
ftercefully semovea from the platform by Lic.
é5ntento CASTRO Leal, Lirector of the UNAM Suamer
Beavol, (See (5-5/407, 923.)

2 Th same reper? abeve seic that a stucont
realy wea held in the auditorium of the UNAM te
eupport revolutionary activitice in Central ond
Swath America. Hugo TULIG Nelonies waa one of the.
persens who presided nt ¢hig raljiy. Leaflets by
the FCH were distributed at this rally.

fie & momo of JO July 1856, from a fairly re-
Liable source, Foparted oa the Hationnl Oratory
Coatest suid at dalaya, Verscrux., The report
etated, “Fhere were tua main types. of orators:
the very ved and the adherents of the radical left,
who exy be considered sa future agitators. The
moat dangerous of tais (agitator) type were Higuel
LOVES Earves, the Morelos representative, ond iuge
TUMO Sclender, vio cespite being an Guterad=-cut
deangegue, Anows well how te attract the masnea,”

h. & report dated 14 august 1959 on a “Visit
of Cubans et Hationsl University of Nexice" ree

' gerted that mugo TinZO Helendes was one o£ five

orpmnizcers af 4 meeting hela in the Jaciato
Pallarea auditariua of the Law School (et UNAM)
te honor the Cuban Comsuniet visitors... (Gee
CB-3/408, 685.)

-4. A Feport dated 26 August 1959 reported a

aeoting belg on 235 duly 1959 at Atemoo Espanol

(Communist meeting bell) to pay tribute to Fidel

 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
    

‘tog t0zt8-t0007

aed

 

 

 

 

 

 

% Birecter, Office of Security” ©
United States Information agency

3 Usputy Pirectoar for Plans
3 Huge PULIO Kelomes

ie Reference As made te CSCI=S/773,087, dated
23 iwoouber 19S2, and CHC1=3/T7S,70S, dated 10 Novenber
2968, which provides inidrugtion ca Subject.

& Es en effert to try ta clarify the gcetails af
carogktiny tafoviition avaliable os Gubject an the
gccorde of hia ayemey, there falhlova dafermation reo
cently received from our representative 14 Moaxnico UAaty,
shack tacky eli jafers. tidy aveiieble in the files
there ao cubjest, Mo adcitional tufarnstion on PELIO
is contaloou fa the Files of thin oifice vhiem hes net
Siready boos muda Bvailable te you in the mosorends
ekted in paragraph one.

 

 

 

& Hege TULEO uolondez (svremesuely descy ibod
as a Cubha} woe tive ze 2th epenkeor vn 25 KRerech 158
@t @ Fally Of Cubon, Uicuragusn, ana bowminieau
peliticsl exiles tele at the dubren Korumwent La
Alois bayk, sexico City. Me woked Gemace te give
A&G to Cuba, Nicarerus, and the boalnican hapublse
BG “cnolaved” countries, (eo Cl03/355, BEE.)

bie Lies repaid, ti daaunpy L5Sd, raported duge
TULIO MelCnGee Bl A spouLner fa & miating beled
20 Janunry 2b3R at Neyicicle a Jusreze The neetinag
was a weliy €0 attsex YPresideat Miguel YRIGGLAS
Feontes of Guntemela ag a dictater end as & Isckey
of the tnited S¢ates. :

¢, xecoister, 11 Janvary 1653, reported the
game peeing Ga “bh” showm gad had a photograph of
Engoe TULIO Molenten us one of the principal agita-
_ torpm, kt said he advocated that Hexico break
. ~ Giplosatic Felatiuns with YDIGQHAS.

 

 

 

 

 

 
      
     
       
    
14-00000

 

   

 

 

i
y.
i
:
}

 

  

 

   

CAUTRO Rus, Hugo TULIO Meleméiex was the firat
syeukers, He praised the Cuban Revolution aa.
attacked. the governwents of Kicarugua, Paraguay,
and the Dominican Fepublic, and blaaed the
“pseudo blendes” of the North (Unated rtates) |
for ail cictaterships. ie said the presa baa
been paid to distort the truth about the Castro
revolution. Hoe said he knew his torda would bo
reported to the Ligtrict attorney, since the
Hexiecan Govorament elways sent peid agents to
listea.. (Seo CH-3/41), 174.)

jo Go 1 Lecenbsr 1950 VET agkud for cleare
amee from the tecurtty Office ior Rego FULLO
Helenies (bora om Gl duly 1906 is uesteco, L.F.),
whe was cited as au jafluential student et isan
and who c2% being conpidered tor a studest travel
preut uncer the odyvestional emkanges prograu.
(Seo attzchad usme to the Gecurity Office tu ree
ply -— sttechuoat 4)

k. ieceleier, 5 dune 1980, cited Guge TULIO
Helewien cua cna Gf the leagere of the "Frente
Univereiteario jatinowamericane” and one of the
times writers Of a lottur to Kegican roreign
Kinieter Manuel TaLLe ssking that Hexzico brealk
welation@ with tae iuminiene Kepwblie (Cirujgiilo}
fay the worédes (vhich theses stucunise say was done
by Trujillo sgemts) cf Joge ALORA.

4, Exceletor, 16 dune 1869, reported that

. Buge TOL Weleadez (of the Frente Univernttario

Lating-devricane) was aueag 8 group of “etudents,
workers, umd Comunicte” tho welcomed Ova lide
DORTICOS, President of Cuba, to the sirport in
Menico City.

- fe Om 18 Realy 1960 a usually reliable source
wyoported that Huge TULIO Helendcesr: wus emong &
group of Nextens etusenta invited te visit Cuba.

. Fhe tevitation caze frum the Cubea Embassy is

Meusceo City, thich promised to pay all expenses.

m@, A report dated 20 July 1960, puragraph 3,
feom o usunlly reliable guurce, roported that on

“| July 1860 fuge TULIO Helendes invited wiles
. ROLETIC,. Second. Secretary of

the ‘Yugeslay-Rnbasgy -

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   
   
     
     
      
74-00000

c

 

 

- peperted igo TOLIO uslesdez es one of the leaders

 

hao additions] information ca Subject's travel. --

 

  
 
 
 

nicern

godine

an Bexice City, to attend o stucent meeting te
be. held.on.@ July 1360 by “progrencive political
partios” to select delegates to. take. part.ia the
Latia American Congress of eat to be beld is
Guba. EALETIC accepted. (See0'CS-3/445,119.)

® A report cated 46 duly 1860, from a
wugueliy reliable source, reparted a pro-Cubap,
anutieLaited States stucent dexenstration in front
ef the United States inhessy and the Wationsi
Palace, One student, Carlos CATIZ Tejada, tried
to burn a United States Zlag (ut police force
fully prevented this). One of the three principal
ergenizers and leaders of thig danonstratioa wan i
Huge TULIO Holemdez. (Gee €2-3/445,036.) :

p. Execletor, 26 July 1286, reported that
goven Hexicah professors amd 86 Mexican studente ' :
left fer Yabars om 24 dnly 1956. One ef the roo,

 

students was Enge TULIG welendeu,

@ On & Angest. 1960 a usually roliable source
reported ¢het Vicente LAHMEDG Toledune.tela TLIC oa Pew na See
Helendes that his work leered very goed. . LOSDARLO i .
Toledazs wanted to see TULIO Heleudes en the “noxt :
Nedresdup" and eaig ne would leak forward ta the i
visit “with euch piexsure.* i

B, Ga 16 August 1860 & asually reliable
acareo reported that Hugo TULIO Helendes wan leave
hag by wey of Yeracrua ahoerd a Yugoslay ship oa
2. Juguet 1860 for Yuguslevia. A portion of TULIG -
Kelendes’ cunceses wase being paid by the Yugoslav.
Government, according to this aource,

   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

@. On 4 Geteber 1969 2 usualiy relisble source
reported that Huge TULIO Meleades was one of a
group which errived in merida fron Habans.

 @. On 16 October 1969 a fairly reliable source
ef tho “Bloque Latino-Americano” or “Frente Univer=
witeriec Latiac-anmericonco” which was. reported to be
eonstantly sttacking the Hogican Govermznt,

u. The United States Raval Attacho, Mexico,

    

behind the trea Curtais,
