74-0000

 

 

Ee ke Oscanlo Linea, lator leater.

 

lL Jeeus Perna. wader, affictal of the alecirictncs' inion, leater
. ef the pecent outbreak cf this union a.einet Camumist daination

i
; OF ite
7 . 4

| | ms. Jose Ignacio Rasee, leater among the Christiaa Denocrete. i
Jf : H

t : I do tet at thie tine know the names of the other seven Cubans present at i

‘ the Washington meeting. . .
: the folloving plan was put forth, to solve the differences mong the exiled :
Hl Cubans. The Por Republican Moveneut (@P) 18 to choose 10 asunes frou
{ ae) the List of 20 t.e., frum the abeve 13 plus the seven vhich are unkieva to

t i - me). Of these 10. two are to te fraa."labor”, two from the Supreme Court
‘ bo of Cuba, end six fraa “the right and center“. ‘hen, the Denocratic 3
i . Revolutionary Front (oF) ir to choose three acre people af their own, not ?
ti necessarily fran the above list. Iv ie sald that tho/TGh has alrendy nace |
{: ; ite three selections aud that they are JustoCarriile An o de Varons, and
t : Manuel Artime. Baxt, the MRP fe to select three om pees. [ te deformed

that taey have decided upon Raul chibss, Manuel Fey, and relipe. Parcs a9
their three cholcss. Next, “Unidal Rev Revoluetonaria (ur), the christian |
3
}
{
H
j

 

Democrats, and “other opposition groups" are to name one person to represent.
it _ thes. This makes @ total of 17 names which will have been eolected. The .
7 plan thea calls for these 17 initviduele to serve as a *Jxta Executiva™.

: fis "Nmte" vill thea nase, fron anong its own membership, the Provisional

7 President of Ciba, the Provisional Prine Minister, and the Provisional -
avcre 17

 

7 . . _ Cabinet. The “Provisional Legiclstive Body” vill be formed by the
z individuals, plus the mnaiaing nazes od the original list of 20.

&, Reaction to thia plan has deen hostile, aacng Cubans who Imew about Jt. Vaorona
is not happy with it, becasse be gays that it constitutes US meddling in .
Cuban intefmal affatra and because the plan vas allegedly put ferth by
representatives of the US Government. Birt, says vereney he will asccpt it, .
becanse he goes no alterantive. Soret

fangs cee a

a+ kane te antes BP sane

+ 5. The MRP feola that the plan is too favorable to the DR? and ia very whappy
yo. : that the US seams to have selected Cuban nilitary officers on the basis of
: thelr military leadership ability and their Lrwletce of Pnglish, rather -

. than a that of their palitical exitabLlity. | The MRP is resentful of the

e trestaent vhich they say haz deen ctven Hart{a [lens and his staff, all of
it vhom have apparently been ousted. The MP is also utappy over what it

zi . regars ag too obvious US dumination of the whole political effert of Cubans
in exile. In shart, the Mip thinks that, under present plans, should Fidel
Castro and his regime be overthran, the only result will be the imposition
by the US upon Cuba of a goverment unpalatable to the PRE, 4m poreicular,
end patriotic Cubans, ta general.

6. Wy Ciban friends infam ne that althouh the MP to Siaeatigfted with fo
. things, 68 outlined above, it will accept Husberto Sort asa ailitery ° A

leader. I learned recently, by the way, thet Sort inrts has becaxe the. :
*uilitary goordinstax” of UR. ‘The MRP is nov preparing to submit thel>
counterpreposal to the above plana. ‘The MRP villi propose that tne above
Scheme be discarded ssl that in its place there be organizeda "junta",
This “junta” would be cacspoeed of three individuals selected by the MRP
end three selected by the ORF. ‘These eix people would ther select a ~
@eventh, sho rould becazre the “Provisimal President" of Cubs. The MRP
will acoept JustoCarriilo as this seventh person and "Provieioaal President".
Ite reasons are that it mews that JustoCarrillo is really amed by the MRP,
Dut that his selection would pleases the IRF (who, presumebly, | thins that

it ovns hin).

7". My Cuban friends inform ae that the MAP objects particularly to the presesce
. of isdc, Batista, Rasco, Marques Storling, and Carbo on the above list and
: that it fecls strongly that toe nesainder of the names om that list are
thoes of right-anl extrece right-wingers. .

; C-O-N-PoI-D-E-Be™-IeA-L
porary ; MO DISSEN ABR EDaTEp

che gu een

   
  

o

a

 
 
  
  
  

10172-10049

 

 

or 7 oye
: oR Pinback Jaatiod Saiend te Aell-tuvee eanpturses of CI SEVER cha eit hid S100 and Defies, to the untathigonoe oo NDOrEAT. «
fi wameerting watle Wot to be dimen snated to exmealanth orcerral ancents w

Republican Novendut/Lavtureiwus of Dave Tomer ls 3
for Organization of Rebel Goverment Insite Ooh, ences oo
_. Attdtudes of the Popular Republicen Movement SUHRLNCES Supplement toz
. 00B-3,163,082
_OATCOF Her GL - . OnB-3 178,056

 

 

pews Te

goss meee Meee eo to te meanng hoe bare to
ive.

STi ee wee veoute tas eater a pe tt by

fe ence wien Ay etermatne Hatang tne Serres! Were
18k San POS ord FEE he mere tm er ope char at at =

GaQe NaF LeDeBe5-T- Lodel,

ne ee ne ee cee ne ee em a

eae ne ET

 

COUNTRY . REPORT NO 00--B 3,161,362

cee Topelevel Gocret Conference Among Exiled
“Shihan Leadere Pails to Resolve Differences DAIL DIST® 16 March 1962
Betveen Democratic Revolutionsty Front and Popular, pcr

INNO

pace & eee
- oe ° eas) UNEVALTIAY

 

 

ite Trad &

 

ho ene of ay Ciben fricnts bes just told me that on or shout 2, 3, ond & Mar Al,
there was heli in Washington, DC, a top-lovel, "top secret" conference of
exiled Cuban political ieuders and other Cuban figures. The purpose of
the conference, 0 Tem informed, was to try te reconcile political
differences among the Cuban extles-and also to formulate plens for the

organization end installation of a rebel goverment insite Cuba. My friend *

also told me that representatives of the US Goverment vero’ Be! :
conference ami played oa important role. co present at the

2. I understand that 20 Cubans attended the above conference. The Loli
are the nakes of 13 of the participents. .

a. Julio Lebo, the fomer “suger king" of Cuba.

acme,

- Alberto Feredoies, formerly a daportent “wnomidado® in Oriente

| province ¢ . _
Avel Mestre, foreer omer of @ telovisicn station end manber of
@ proninsot Cuban fently. Soy ae .

- Agfetiao Batista, fumerly Chaimaa of the Trust  Coipary of Cubs.

 

 

Sergio Cardo, formerly amer of 4 vell-

 

carlos Eevia, "Jutentico” « ate for president of Cuba in 1952.

Carles we Sterling, ctndidate for president of Cuba in 1998
[Bee 05-77 103,081. for cata concerning reputed financial by
Tee eee rteat of Pulgencto Setieta to terques in Dec 58

: ; - tye
j. Jeotls Gihpgee, cador leader, Lieutenant of Eusedio Mujal.

 
  
 

“WO BISsse 23ROAD

or av eaing HES oinenoate, and Righer orhines oth (hast sence 008
Te wralty Pall- time camployoes af CIA, AEC, FRI, Stace of Ditene) vo:

feetree adreccumetun abert ferwt eat ee ep veaseeperr sd Inds 00D Che we
Neen ned tun chigineting office has boca ob'ained Lheowss the daniovont Tresor for Central Redarenea, CIA

am een

 

 
   

   
       
  
  
 
 

Do Not Reproduea

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

2/8R
 

TU PE Ee ere een apemeic sete

 

ree sore,

 

 

 

  

FO ConeF-Te:

oln

Pirally, I aa told that the MS repres

aes

Pel-AqL as

cs

0-952 ,182, 353 °

mtatives at the Beeting in Banh lagtos

ipaisted trat the plan aescrival above be acomtel ag presestal. These

individuals are sali to have stated that i? th

plan la not accepted ty

 

the Ci>ana, efforts to unseat Castro will proceed, without either the Re

or the MAP.

erie

CoOnN-F=1eD-Eoe To I-AoL,
. WO DISSEM ABROAD

 

fe eciee

 Petelblew oy

 
