 

 

 

: ey rey Reet Tt ape ee
DISPATCH ety . any CIxA~24418
ee saad en... |

3. Headquarters desires to fulfill the above requests as
expaditiously as possible and does not feel that it is necessary to
perform a post mortem on the whole Martin-Mitchell case when their
expressed interest involves this one series of events. It is felt
that ODINCH's reguirement “an be ret by having Or. Whit. relate tie
circumstances surrounding his contacts with Martin. Tais would include
dates, places and time of contacts, number of meetings, identity of
other persons involved, susject mattor of discussions including Hartin's
reception, stay and treatment in and by the Soviet Union, also Martin's
reaction to sase, Soviet knowledge of and approval or disapproval of
contacts, reasons for their discontinuance and Dr. White's reaction to
the whole experience. In connection with Dr. White's identification
of “Alla” it is highly unlixely he can furnish a voluatnous amount of
information since, according to Dr. Renninger, Dr. White met: her only
a few times, Attached is a copy of a Personality Data Debrisfing Gulde
which was prepared some tine ago for general use in connection with a
Headquarters project but has been found useful in other situations in
which fairly extensive information is desired concerning an individual.
You will no doubt find that many of the points ara not applicable in
this instance but it may suggest areas of information which wight stimu-
late the recollection of Dr. White. ,

  

 

& With reference to an operational assessmont report on Dr. White
a@ general report covering the nature of his current work, political
and social attitudes, his private future plans and aspirations, secured
through your normal conversation with him, will be sufficient.

Arthur BE. Vizgerle

ON ea
Cliff¢rd J. Teesdale

CLASSIICATION ~

Greene foyer Oe

 

2 hag dap poe.

 

 
 

 

104-10219-10078 ee. ; : , '

rn ‘le ocaes qr weve
:

 

~ « Stacion,

 

    

‘Sr. Roscoe WHITE Cen TeclTs “wT mAeTied
Rta vinses aoe == DEST IIT f
See paray 3, &. fe

Pb Et :

‘

1. Headguarters appreciates your desire to avoid duplication of i

effort and, az you suggested, consulted Wallace A. DEMOLAT, who was i

unable to locate any identifying data concerning “Alla” other than that 1

furnished by Dr. RENNINGEA (copy of which you received as an attachment i

to Glrw-28330). He also located a copy of a memorandum entitled |

“Defector William Martin Working in Moscow,” whic!. is being forwarded {

for your information as Attachment A. le was unable to locate further {

details of Dr. White's meetings with Martin. |

{

!

4

t

   

: 2. Yor your further information and assistance, the background of
‘ ODINCH and ODENVY interest in this matter is as folloes:

a. 21 Septexber 1964, ODINCH sent us a copy of the information
provided by Dr. Renninjer, copy of which wa sent you with

24333, as indicated above. ODINCH expressed the hope of receiving
a@ report frou Dr. White - mentioned in Dr. Renningor’s report ~
regarding nis contacts in Moscow with Martin. ODINCH was informed,
by a Headquarters component, that “We have no inforwation from
Yoite regarding hia contacts with Martin," and suqgeyted that a

evepy of Or. Ranniager's statement be made available to ODENV? for
its use when Dr. White returned to tha Unitod States,

i

i

i

t

. t
b. It was sub-equently learned that Dr. White would be abroad |

for another yeir, therefore, unavailable for an ODLNVY interview. |

QLERVY then levied the requirement of interviewing Or. White on us. |

On 30 April 1965, ODENVY inquired of us, "Nas your Agency since i

. that time (1964) had an opportunity to interview or, White and |

‘ obtain additional identifying data regarding ‘Alla' who was posri-

‘ bly engaged with Martin in a provocation attempt?" Henc®, our i
request to you in paragraph 1 of reference, that “ODENVY and ONINcH i
are interested in having Dr. White interviewed for complete and {

: Getailed information goncerning his contacts with Martin and the {

. girl secretary named ‘Alla,’ at the Institute.’ |

!
i
i
t
I
t

Distribution: fag 2F LITE

2- ci w/Att/ , Let 3 FFL

  
 
 

mt S25 SaeE.

$7952~
ela Pleo weia

  
 

  
   
 

= C/CI w/o att
~ C/WE/4 wfo att ©

     
 
 
 
 

  
  
   

 

DD bet as

 

 

 
 

- SR w/o att : “GS0RTINATING
~ CE/SIG (SIG 3563 0 (unaiwen | ed
, 201-97852)”

 
   

teh fy ” otndSt

C/CL/SIG

   

RETUAN To CIA
Ba Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 
   
  

ines
33 53 ase pens earron

 
