  
  

6. Crozier agreed to contact this Office in the future should any
further questions concerning writings or association with this Agency
come to mind,

  

Mit live?
murence G. Parr
Chief, Employee Activity Branch

 
 

 

noe =~ _ BO oe , oo

    

— Ubiv ci 2 tle
23 October 1967

RETUR .
Backgrou N TO CIA
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD D nd Use Ont
9 Not Reproduce
SUBJECT; CROZIER, Ross L.
#112 569

1. On 18 October 1967, Jerry Gabriel, DDS&T/OSP/SO, telephoned the writer
to advise that a former employee, the Subject, had been in touch with him con-
cerning whether or not he could write an article on Che Guevera, the Cuban
Insurgent... Crozier apparently wanted to jmow if it were permissible for him
to state that he was employed by the Agency at the time he was travelling with
Guevera and had taken a number of pictures of the Cuban. Gabriel stated that
Grozier was still working for the Post Office Department as a Postal Inspector.

2, The file reflects that the Subject was a former contract employee of —
the WH Division, whose association was covert, from beginning to end.

3, The writer telephoned Crozier (177-7556) and learned that the Subject
wished to write an article for the Samuel French Inc., an article which would
in all probability appear in numerous magazines in this country. According to
Crozier, James Reach, head of the Literary Department at Sammel French Inc.,
is aware of Crozierts association with the Agency and is of the opinion that
for the Subject to indicate in the article that he was with Guevera at the
behest of the Agency would make it very saleable. q

2

h, Crozier was under cover of [L

in March 1958 when his knowledge of Guevera was obtained, The writer

informed the Subject that under n¢é circumstances should he write any ‘article
tint ating himself with _the_ Agency while under that cover... It was agreed

 

 

that was plausible and accepted, and Crozier
admitted that a number of newspaper men and other persons with whom he came
into contact in the 1958 period had accepted the cover. :

 

5. Crozier stated he would not connect the Agency with his activities
in the critical period in any article he might present. He was not requested
to submit the article to the Agency prior to publication as this is apparently
a character sketch and yecitation of the activities of Guevera during the
March 1958 period, not something of intelligence concern at this date so long
as no connection of this Agency is to be mentioned.

 

 
