 

23 August 1963:

Subject met the DCU ayain.

4 September 1963: Subject met the DC! again and stated that he wanted to become

October 1963-
April 1964:

1964/1965:
June 1965: _

August 1968;

OctOber 1968:

a

‘July 1970:
pluy |

epee

<<. oer

March 1972:

April 1972:

September 1972: [AEJGAIN provided a copy of the 1969 KGB Alphabetical List of
PY aaphabetical hist of

Early 1974:

an edvisor to the DCI and the Intelligence Coramunity.

Subject in contact with the Agency mostly in the N.Y. C. area.
Subject reasonably cooperative, .
W

Subject, according to af Jotticiat, visited the Netherlands,
Subject interviewed by the Canadians in the N. Y.C. area.

Subject in contact with the British regarding possible
publication of his book.

FBI source indicated that he had no current information|
concerning the KGB attitude regarding Subject but the source
Stated that if ths KGB knew Subject's location it might undertake to

eliminate him.

Subject in contact with Agency personnel and visited Florida.
4

 

September 1970: U.S. Senate Internal Security Subcommittee interested in Subject

under name DOLNYT ZEN,

O2

[AEBMaAsH reported that he kne ¥ that Subject had been
sentenced to death oy the KGB. An article regarding this
sentence appeared in the Chekist sometime after 1964.

Subject in touch with CIA officials.
0

Agents of Foreion Intelligence Services, Defectors, Members of
Anti-Soviet Orcanizations, Members of Punitive Units and Other
Criminals under Search Warrents. In this List the KGB listed

Subject and his wife as under the sentence of death for revealing

Soviet State secrets.

Subject and family living in N.Y.C, Area, he is writing and
conducting researchJlHe is presently in contact with the Agency
and also with the He has also visted South Africa and
worked with the in recent years.

nN

iy
 

 

 

 

Rovere 1951:

December 1951:

March 1952:

September 1952:

March 1953:

October 1953:

SECRET

Subje-% wag proaoted to "Sertor Operational case
officer.”

The MI was ¢issolved and former state security
elements were returned to the Zi. Suditect's .
functions continued the sace, tut, in the
reorganizaticn, he us assigned to the CI Section
of the Anerican Departcent of che AncloeAnerican
(First) Directorate of the First Chie! Directorate

of the Maz.

Subject and a young friend wrote a Joint letter
through the Central Comittee of the CPSU to
STALIN making sucgestions for a fundanental
reorganization of Soviet. foreign” intelligence and”
counterintelligence work, .

While on vacation in the Georgian SSR Subdiect vas
ordered to Moseny for a four hour reeting, with hia
Staion! with STALIN, MALEIKOY, and RESIYA. STALIN
the tvo officers for their suggestions,
dtscuosed intelligence matters in detail and asked
thea to send bin a letter wita specifle proposals
for neceasary reorganizations, together with the
hanes of recomended chiefs. In a subsequent
detter they recomended Sergey Ivanovich CCOLTSO’,
then in prison for “political crimes.” and Yevgenty
Petrovich PITO/PALOY, then chief or deouty chief
of the HGB in the Uzbekistan SSR. STALIN met Subject
and his friend a second tine. OGOLTYOY vas released
from prie*a end appointed Chief of the Firat Chief
Directorate, with PITOVRANCV as his deputy. A
Chief Intelli sence Directorate of the MGB was then
formed, containing a Counterintellicence Department
with an Entgre desk and seven geogruphical
desks. Subject vas appointed by CCOLTSOY an chief
of the Anerfcaun Desk, eupervising approximately
15 etaff persons.

When STALL died and BERTYA took over control of the
State Security apparatus, which he combined vita tue -
MID {nto a unified MID, he replaced QUOLTSOY vith one
of his ow arzointees. Subject sus reassigned as
deputy chief of the Russian Enicre Desk of the ¢Y
Pepartazent of the Second (new designation for foreign
Intellicence}) Chief Directorate, i6D. Subject supervised
activities acainst exigres in Austria and Germany.

2 to the MM residency in Vien,
Ps:

  

Subfect wns age
Austria, aa an
Qremitions troun.

  

ele

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

; ‘SECFET . ° Not Reproduios

COPY (om SN files!

she

SUIVECT: XL ITIYR Blographical Highlights

2. Anstociy Mikhsylovich GOLITZYN $ KLIMOV was born on
25 August Sot at Piryatin, Poltaayva, Oblast, Ukrainian SS,
wf lower class parents, After childhood education and studies
at the Frunse Artillery School ip Qicsst, where he was a
Komsonol (CP Yxith) organizer, Subject requested and was

granted trensfe> into Military Counverintelligeace.

2. The Zollowing are highlights of the chronology of
Subject's professional career:

1945 -194E: Student at the onc year course, Military
. Counterinieilicence School, CUKR/"SMERSE,"
Moscov. :
1946-1948; Desk officer, Assistant Opermnttonal Case

Officer, aegsigned to the Eastern Section
(otdeleniye) of the SK (Soviet Colony =
security cf Soviet officials abroad)
Department (ctiel) of the First Chief
(Foreign Intelligence) Directorate of M&S
Keadquorters in Moscow. During the period
November 1947 to September 1943 Subject.
held the title of Referent and his office
wns designated the Firth (sk) Deoartceat
or the Third (Iastern) Directorate of the
KI (Committee for Information), but his
functions were unchanged.

1948-1950: Student at the tvo-year course, Hisher
Intelligence School of the KI. Subject
atudied general sudjects and the English
lmaguage; he vas o5e of 39 students sho
specialized in counterintelligence during -
the second year of the course.

1950-1951: Desk officer, Operntional Case Officer, |
supervising SK activities in China,
assisned to the CX Section, Eastern Departe
meat, First Directorate of the HdB Head-
quarters in Moscov, the SK functions naving
reverted from the KI to. the MG3 in 1949.

At his request Subject was transferred es
a desk officer to the Anslo-American Sectica,
Counterintells sence Department of the First

Directorate, iS Zeadquarters in Moscov.

Far fo SECRET

Septenber 1551:

 
   

  

“REVIEWED BY FBYJFK TASK RORCE

ON Shalss feb
7 PELEASE IN FULL
(1 RELEASE IN PART
Cl TOTAL DENIAL

  

 

 

 
 

 

 

August 1954;

1955-1959:

September 1959:

April 1960:

August 1960;

45 Decenber 1561:

~ SECRET ,

Subject vas transferred to the British Sud-Group of
the Anclo-\nericaneFrench Group of the Ks3 residency
in Vierna. His duties were of a counterinteliisence
Dature, f.e. concerned vith penetration of foreign
intelligence services. .

Cue of 170 students attending the four year internal
security-counterintellizence course, the KG3 Eicher
School Juridical Institute. He presented and success-
fully derended his thezis on the subject of KX
activities anons Soviet delegations and tourist groups
traveling abroad. He received hig diploma in August
1959. During bis school tour Subject also spent several
weeks {n on-the-job tamining as a student assigned to
pertinent elenents of the KGa's Second (Internal
Counterintellisence) Chief Directorate, with access to
operational files on foreign diplomatic personnel in

Moscow who were KGB targets.

Subject was assigned ac a Senior Operational Case
Officer resscrsitie for NATO information within the
Treaty Organizations Direction, Information (Reports)
Department, First (Foreign) Chlef, Directorate, KG3
Headquarters, Moscow, His function wag to veanslate,
edit and surmarize in ‘ormation reports ottained by KGa
agents abroad and to disseainate the pertinent
information to the Central Comittee of the cPsy,
members of the Preaidiun, including KHRUSHCHEV, and,
in the case of information with military aspects, to
MALINOVSKIY, the Minister of Defense. At one tine,
during a CP cell meeting, criticisa was voiced avout
the delays in trenslation and processing and Subject
was assigned to study the situation. Thus he
examined registry logs showing the titles of agent
information reports, the place acquired, the date
received and the date of dissenination of the finished
Russian intellisence reports te the governnent.

Subject was transferred to the American Section of the
CI Department ef the First Chief Directorete, KG3, to
prepare for assignnent to the KGB residency under
Soviet Exbassy cover in Helsinki, Finland, as the CI
officer working against foreign intelligence services.

Subject was assizned to the Kq3 residency in Helsinki,

‘under the nane KLIVov (his true name was compromised

through the 1954 defection of Petr DERYASTI tn Vienna),
and with the cover title of Thing Secretary.

Subfsect, with his wife and young Causater defected to

the U.S. Government vhich granted then political
4asylua.

* seorey

 

 
 

 

i

16 Lecember 1961: Subject and his family (his wile Svetlana Mikhaylovna

‘and daughter Tatyana, born 22 June 1955) arrived “black

 

-GOLITSYNA nee CHERNOVALOVA, DPOB: 1 March i
Rostov, USSR, who he married on 23 August 1953 int

  

 

in
the Washington, D.C. area atter travelling from Finiand chrough
Sweden and Germany.

ff
28 December 1961. Subject met Attorney General Robert KENNEDY along with

Early 1962-
February 1963:

“16 February 1962:

2 July 1962:

9 July 1962:

co :
22). gust 1962:
bared

15 November 1962:

27 November 1962:

27 November 1962:

oy

M Sekember 1902;

Mr. HELMS,

Subject was debriefed by CIA Officers, officials from other US
Agencies and teams of Intelligence Officers from Free World
nations. Subject provided much valuable information on the KGB,
its organization, personnel, operations, aims and efforts
against the Free World. Subject, however, Proved to be a most |
difficult handling problem, especially az a result of his
personality a; his constant demands for regular meetings with
high-level US officials such as the President, the Atterzey-
General, he Directors of CIA and the FBI and for a policy

role in the US Intelligence Community.

Subject had another meeting with the Attorney-General,
Subject met again with the Attorney-General and Mr. HELMS,
Subject had conversation with Mr. HELMS.

‘Subject had interview with Mr. SORENSON and Mr. Edward R,
MURROW ae :

FBI source reported that KGB aware of Subject's presence in
the U.S.A. and orderéd allSoviet 1S personnel to report
immediately any information which they may obtain regarding
Subject.

Subject met the DCI and protested treatment by the Agency.

Subject was dissatisfied with his talk with the DCI and visited
the Attorney-General on his own unofficially, .

Subject met again with the DCL

21 February 1963: Sut ject and his family left N. ‘i on SS Sylwania for England. |

: Spring 1963:

8 Auguat 1963:

22 August 1963:

!
Subject worked with thef al

Subject returned to the U.S.A.

 

Subiect met the Attorney-General again.
