13-00000

—™ .
’ . 8 .
t cos
( SECRET C :
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 . 4 September 1973

 

 

Te ee 5
‘(see DOL 60-11)

Prior approv of the Director or the Deputy Director for 3 Operon is
ational the De

 

 

 

 

 

i : . contros. If, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated,
i : approached for 1 nt, or contacted for operational purposes,.the prior:

concurrence of — will also be required in accordance with para-
graph &b., above. . .

 

 

 

 

 

It is DDO policy that the operational use of
including those of its various ‘main
} is of such sensitivity as to require
special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially
worthwhile cases wherein ‘operational use of a particular! individual -
_ is deemed essential for the accomplishment of the’ DDO mission, approval

 

 

 

the U.S. or a U.S. citizen wherever assigned, the prior approval of the
Deputy Director for Operations will be required. (See paragraph 8.b.
regarding use of non-U.S. citizen, ot assigned
in the U.S.) If, while in the United States, the[ | individual is to be
investigated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur-
poses, the prior concurrence off __imay also be required as outlined
in paragraph 6.b., above.

f. Staff Members or Officials |
The operational use of staff members or officials o thel

Jor other equivalent
===}requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy
‘Director for Operations. DDO elements should make every effort to avoid
the operational use of staff members or officials off ) How-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative --

agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may -
be graated by the Deputy Director for Operations.

g. Officials of : :
Operational contact with officials of tells will be made only
with the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational
use 0 bo
Director for Operations.

nf] a

US. oz oe | partici. *
_pating in or other;

 

 

 

 

 

 

~ 2° . may be obtained. In each case involving a non-US. citizen assigned in

fficials will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy *.

 

 

 
ined

fr. . ~
( ' SECRET ¢
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

 

 

k except py paragraph 5b.,
above) are considered to be in a Separate Séiisitive Category. Operational

use of such individuals while they are actively participating in
requires special. considesation .

 

 

. and. approval by the Deputy Director for Operations prior to. such use. In

certain especiallf worthwhile cases wherein the operational ‘use ofa par- -.
- ticular; is considered essential to

 

the accomplishment of the DDO mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-

tions may grant approval. Memoranda requesting such approval will be ~

forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the
Deputy Director for Operations will determine whether or not to seek the |
concurrence (6f the

 

 

 

 

il Members of. ; —— i

i

- “kf

 

 

 

 

P
applies to all foreign as well as domestic. activities of such ich organiza?
tions! In compliance with the above proscription, DDO policy requires .
the most careful scrutiny of all cases involving operational contact with

 

 

 

 

 

/the operational use of any employee, staff
member or official of such an organization requires prior approval by
the Deputy Director for Operations. The Deputy Director for Opera-
tions will determine whether or not to seek extra-Agency approval for
the conduct of such operations.

(2). Operational use including covert funding abroad_of

 

(1) It is US. Government. ‘policy ‘that no federal agency shall provide’ any ae :

   
 

———

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{ and the personnel thereof is per-

 

 

 

 

mitted even if the organization is also funded b

 

 

 

Officials “or Employees of

 

.
Operational use of ‘the officials or employees of the[_ dC

requires prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.
Contacts with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in
their cover capacities will not involve operational matters until the approval
of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured,

 

 

 

 

}
Operational use of or operational contact with members |
while they are on assignment in the United States will not be
made_without the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.
" are participants in programs established by various
foreign countries in collaboration with the Department of State as a

il
SECRET

1 omit bce a Ase oe sa san bh aetna ns eine chmod dete nalentalliontsatlt smb

 

 

 

 
13-00000

~ ~
‘ :
f es
C . ‘| SECRET C
i ‘ DOI 50-10
7 DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 ; 4 September 1973

Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested
to perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern
of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual’s
Pe or firm’s normal pattern of activity, will take place because requested or
ee . : funded by the Domestic Collectién: Division; that case will be subject to’

the requirement for approval by the Deputy Director for .Onerations.
a
(see DOI 240-6)

(1) Operational use of i

C: . requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever
there is danger that such activity might serve in any way(tof
CS such activities include but are not limited to the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(The Oop-

 

erational use abroad o

 

 

oes not require approval by the Deputy

a a for Operations even though such activities may have some
~— - unintended and unsolicited” falloat eT
(2) Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prior
_operational use of —

 

 

 

 

 

f{/whenever the individual is a U.S.
citizen or when thd involved is under'U.S. ownership
. or control,
O : b. Employees ; :
It is DDO policy to avoid operational use of employees of the[ |
organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases
involving priority operational objectives will be considered on their merits.
Prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations will be required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oy in all cases,
4
c. Individuals ‘Engaged ‘in __ bisee DOI 50-18) °
Individuals ‘engaged in | which in any way have

 

 

or seek to have are

 

 

th Act; approval by the Deputy: Director .

for Operations is required prior to the operational _use in af i

 

‘capacity of any individual who is engaged in activities,
and who is located in or operating into the United Siates.

SECRET

TIT RN ETT Ce

peer, enemn ie sensitive category. In view of the peculiar
aspects of ar including. the special requirements of ;

 

  

ALLER APRA TYTN BENTO! SPERMINE FMR ORY POLE RE PN ead ial tal

 

 

nee Haaata ern at eanintate aaok ead rae

{7
 

  

mo
f. es
C SECRET C
DOI 50-10 g)
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL .
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
  

ional _use‘of an’
is, under- certain conditions, contingent on_prior approval
of the Aatiérial-intelligence sérvice, concerned!

{ a case involying the proposed operational use ‘of a

one of these [wit be reviewed by the Chief of the] __
Division in the light of the agreements existing between this.Agency and: -

the national intelligence ‘service concerned. After weighing all of the |
equities, the Chief of the| | Division w’ will decide whether approval 0 J

is required i Peincthe national_ intelligence service) concerned. When re- |

 

 

 

 

 

 

quired, approvals. for ‘the operational use" of such individuals will be’.
obtained from the appropriate ational. intelligence. services by the!

(C= Division: oe . / rr ne

oe . . : . . H

 

 

 

 

 

The - ‘opera it inal use of Tesparaes at their
carrying the |

is, under certain conditions, “sui
“to provisions of the agreements existing between this Agency and the
(national intelligence service “concerned Each case involving the proposed
operational use of si h{ Will be reviewed by the Chief
of the ivision’ or the Chief of the ivision, as ap-
propriate, in the light of the‘ ( pertifienit ‘interservice agreeriénts) After
weighing Di the Chief of the’ [__[Divsion or the
Chief of th Division_will determine the course of action to

be taken with regard tol the national intelligence service! concerned.

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

   

 

7. APPROVAL BY THE DDO REQUIRED

Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use

of any individual who falls into cne of the categories described in this para- - -
graph will be requested by memorandum. The individual's covert approval ~~ -
status will be described in the memorandum to the Deputy Director for
Operations, together’ with a. concise explanation of the intended operational

use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Collection © —
Division with. individuals or firms do- not require approval bg the “Deputy .
Director: for Operations provided they constitute: merely briefing or de-
briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual

or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activites. If, however,

in any case the contact is on behalf of another element of the Operations

8 ' , . 3

. SECRET

 
13-00000

rn a
( SECRET ¢
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL

NO. 50-10 4 September 1973 .

e. Employees of U.S. td
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States

(r overseas of the employees of any US.owned or -controlled(————}
{ ] This policy does not apply to operational
use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial
—] : . :

“@. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED

a, Employees of

Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign)

employees off _. — will be granted only in

cases where the employee's has been notified

of and has approved of the intended Operational use in accordance with |

a the provisions of DOL 10-5. . : .- 7

oo ’ “b. DDO Agents or Assets in

_In accordance with the agreement existing between the | —_
End, this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to °. --

(etentony activity of the Operations Directorate conducted inthe = “5 7 7 et oe
‘Coordination pst aprons information on ~.. _- ve
DDO operational activities is the responsibility of : . ue
the Chief, Liaison Group, Operations, Staff. :
(1) All investigations by this Agency of [ |
require the prior concurrence of the. _| In this context, the
term “investigation” means systematic and direct inquiries ‘or pro-,
cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood! :
inquiries) aimed at developing information concerning an individual's , B
activities or background; “investigation” does not include the ac-
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts’
or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their
cover functions. . . : oo.
(2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO element for recruit-) -- a 3
ment :
requires the prior concurrence of , ;
(3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social .
development between ‘a DDO element and a foreign official of known,
‘or presumed interest t between a DDO element and an’
requires that pris notes 2 ee Le

fication be provided to : :
(4) Whenever domestic D operations involve matters pertaining to

the national security of the United States,’ appropriate identification
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be

 

 

 

 

 

 

eo. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

6
SECRET

 
. co ™
r -
: ; C - " SECRET C°
. DOI 50-10
’ DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL

NO. 50-10 : 4 September 1973 -

  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 

provided i) | In accordance with this policy, the followin
categories of DDO assets will be identified (to.

 

 

_____ [who come tothe United” States “tor operational
“purposes.

and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence |

has been established at head- .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s to provide tates Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies
~ : (a centralized record of 1
: A’ principal purpose _of thel lis to resister nrimacy of interest and)
+ { prevent multiple:
_ : soe jit is OSI policy that no individual
i - fos (registered i in thi by on USIB ageéticy will be used for operational pur- _
; : a poses_ by any other USIB agency Without the specific prior approval of the
me " pie a DDO element désifes to arrange the ;
. oo con-
an tact the &gency having) to/determine whether there is a “
Cannas to discuss # : :
™~

i which require the ‘prior approval of t the | Secor)
‘authority, Such approval will be obtained at the earliest féasible stage
af develonment_throuch.thi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i)

 

 

 

\J
“The above restriction also governs the (use of | ‘dbcumentation?

 

 

representing DDO staff or agent personnel as

Approval for the use_of. such, documentation! will

. be sought through the same ; channels as stated | ia subparagraph a)
above. “=. .

 

 

 

 

  

. (3) ‘Authority ‘to make operational u use oof the: persons’ “oF documentation) coos
_ described in the above subparagraphs without obtaining. the prior
’ approval of the . ‘authority) concerned may be granted only

’ by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director.

 

 

N . ’

7
_ SECRET

  

 

an

cee precmhdbes sade ante onsiane tng

cone et pret meget oe ene iaanetele + menlltheemaptestebabinn + seatraeed Costin HR rat-pen lasy

TEE RR IT fy REAP Te ats teal tA adh chanel eaahileetiineetat aed e inh dada ac dines coe aden y

Tepe
 

 

 

an ~
o rf _ ;
C -” §ECRET C
c a :
. ; . DOI 50-10
vo DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
. NO. 50-10 4 September 1973
(ce) icials or employees of the! eee |
(d) Officials, employees, or|

 

 

 

 

 

— (e): Employees of Ug
(2) Operational Use ‘Requires Spécial ~ Extra-Agency” Concurrence (see
.- Bo paragraph 6): An» AfptovAt oF I /ADOS. 6
(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agéncies;]
: (b)i DDO agents'or assets
too (ce),

(a).

 

 

 

 

oy
To on (e)r
Sf. (£)|

; - (3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by” the DDO (see para-

Cee ood graph?) co i
ay

 

 

 

  

~~
2)
v

 

(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see
paragraph 8):

 

 

 

(b) ; ‘Non-U.S.” citizen delegates or-- employees

“oh

Jb Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one 2 type ‘of
; : restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable
-_ in his particular case.

 

 

 

 

 

3
SECRET

   
  

conan inet eer nnelimenctadtsbeliecnfedvns od th

ewecey oe

|
|

 
 

104-10406-10136

C . SECRET me .
- DOI 50-10 ‘ e4
DDO INSTRUCTION - . OPERATIONS.GENERAL .
NO. 50-10 : 4 September 1973 .

|
|
. . . |
3. DEFINITIONS: oo,
. - |
Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply. }
- -  Speeial note must be taken of the fact that the key term “operational use”. . eo
_ employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct oo. He) i
". manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible; Khowever, to cover in ~ : vem
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of “operational
use” is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be i
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter- : 9 '
mination of “operational use” which cannot be resolved with reasonable as- _ } |
surance by the responsible operating comporents will be referred to the : . i
. Deputy Director for Operations for decision. ‘ |
. . a. Operational Use“
oo . Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
ing. of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a witting or ~_
unwittirig basis by or on’ the’ behalf of an element of the Opetations Direc- |
torate. Utilization is'made of an individual or group whenever that in-
dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element
Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled 9
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under i
this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-

c. Operational Contact : ae
Aay association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO —
operations. - ; oe

 

.

tke

» RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions.on the operaticnal :1se of individuals or groups a are 2 of four types
' and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through: 8 of this instruction: ws a
(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph B)r pone oe
(a) Members and trainees o ;

  

 

 
e- : as
C SECRET C :
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL |
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973 .

‘5, OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED

a. Members and Prainees:« of

(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees sof will not be
_. used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency .
or by organizations under its jurisdiction.-(The ternf “members of([__—_]
~] wil] bg understood to mean anyone employed by or associated

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) It is Agency policy that former members’ of may be em-
“ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction
only in accordance with the following:
(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former/ member of)
may be employed or used operationally by any element of the
_Agency only if.a eriod. of five full years has elapsed since his
a ; separation from a
ne (b) An Agency-controlled: organization may hire a former member of
- a -but only for. duties related to the overt purposes of such
- organization, if a period of at least.twenty-four months has elapsed *
since his separation from
(c) The employment or use of a former miember of{_____ under
the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.
(3) Former'tiainees whosel___| service included duty er training/over-
seas are subject to the rules governing employment. or_use of former
members rs of[___( subparagrap! C) above). \Fortier ftaitiees} who
did not serve at any timevas me af >—jand whose(_
. service did not include duty (r.tidining overseas may be employed or
used operationally by DDO elements ‘provided the specific prior ap-
proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.
(4) A former(member or trainee « cof ges howe employment or use
is permitted by subparagraph (2) or above may not be assigned

to or used in a country for which en (rainedar} to which
he had been assigned while with oo

 

 

      
 

(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division

from private corporations and other organizations employing former
personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may

originate with former, (personnel. However, any direct brief.

" ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of .
is subject to the following:

(a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations

must be obtained.

 

 

4
SECRET

 
SECRET .
C : oe DOI 50-10

re - DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

(b) If the individual is a former (member off __ or a former
" (trainee whose service included duty or training over-

seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from

-+ avoidable Suing ¢ the required five Year. Waiting period, thes Deputy

Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director

. of Central Intelligeace. Among the possible reasons for such unavoid-

C : : able-contact would be the designation of a formersmember_or_trainee}
: as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.

ce eee hee oem

 

 

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving
under certain “provisions (see below) of. the,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Falling under. this prohibi-

: . oo, (ineluding<—3 | .

C uy _ ‘who have been selected to receive er
; uo jappointed oe

by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals

PS rohibited only during the period when they are participating in the

This prohibition specifically ~
does not apply to the several other categories of supported_b:
other provisions of thei —

— who
O do not come under the aegis of thd
ri} (see 7j., below). :
ce. Officials or Employees of thel |
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of
of thé] Toa with such
© : individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca-
pacities must be limited-to their cover assignments.
d. Officials, Employees, or
ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ist
: +
8

$4

. 3.

8p
Ss

eg

iJ

a. 8

2

Lae

2 a

ql i:
fad

Ee

<3

as ~

BS

oR

B| "cr,

E A ;
8)

o .

; . & ~ ;
Bg
es Parnes SRI ens pm Pm HN He NEES BO FAYP REPUTE OT STE POE AY APMED RECON BF PER TENE DEOL TOY eat ated lettin tied aa tealt teil atebieiaieds aa neiiei bial? inee ieee)

 

DDO policy prohibits the operational use of |

 

 

 

Jor.of other -
persons actively participating in programs which are wholly sponsored .
and controlled by any of these{_ Additionally, there will be
no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza-
tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con-
tacts or consultations with such individuals. ~

    
 

 

 

5
SECRET

\
ee ws tare treed de

peeks

ra
