 

 

 

  

 
     
  

Sie’ said that her ex-husband and President Sukarno
“were close iriends and that he Wrote to Sukarno at
least once a weak tiruughout their marriages Around

1957 she and Ultmana lived at the Parainount Hotel,
- New York, for a thine. The Thdonesian governinent . .
a paid their ofl], which was nore than $300. She ‘net — a
Sukarno through her npoband, in May 1959 in Copenhagen. ak
At the time of thé introduction Sukarno cleared the -
room of all.advisors and bodyguards, then said to her,
“So youare «rieda. Well, am Sukie." He told her

“that he looked forward to receiving his weekly messages
from her huaband and that he always read then just
vetgfe he went to sleep while he wag in bed." She said

t ten infnutes, after her wedding ceremony with
nans was over, ohe wao salons. Her father, che oot.

said, learned that Oltmans hada police record for
ne@lesting young boys im Amoterda:in. She obtained a
Mexican divorce in 1960. She said that Olfinans is st”
least intelicctually a Co.nmunist and beHeves Communion
to be the econoimle eyetem of the future.

 
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
      
     
       
    
  

 

js L365, 24 October 196%, says Ultinans
wrote pro-Lununba articles in 1960, visited Cuba in 1702
and perhaps 1963, developed iriendly relations with :
Chicoins at The Hogue and may have vieited China in 1964. ar
“In Auguat 196. he applied for a Chicom viea at The Hague.

 
    
      
   
 

k. Ao FBI report of 12 May 1967 cayo that Oltnians
yclaiined to have written for Rainparts an article about CLA 7H
in Indoneata, No such article hao been found. an °

        
    

oe Reforence B requested background information avout .
“‘Garrtoca’ 8 imental health and parfog:nance a9 0 public official. A -- % :
suuunary of dsrogatory information froin overt U.S. :nedia for the pf
past year {March 1967 to March 1964) haa been compiled in response. . ;
4, docioien will soon be made ag to whether part or all of thie material
“shay ve sent’ .

seem ot on

 
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
       

 
 

“Dt

 

2. . gt »
rd
stribution:
. Orfg - DCE

Roa

 

1 -DDP, ADDP ™’..
1+ A/DCL a
1. Eur/Netherlands -

lL - Office of General Counsal
| - Office of Security -
i :
i
1

 

- €/CE, DC/CE

° R&A chrono

- DP reports file
we

 

 

 

 

Bae ng

     

 
14-00000 ,

     

           
    
   
     
     
         
      
    
    
    
     
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

x . toe e _ . : ”
: : ‘ ’ aN 2D OG Gus
. d
a . . : : 1 darch lyen

 

ME/AGRANDUM

SUBJECT: . > Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination: -
Interview of Garrison on Dutea TV by
Willam L. Olt.nane (2u1-155221)

REFERENCES: A. Joint State-USIA cable, HCM 553,

HAGUE - 3931, 24 February 1904"
4 B. (3870, EN 5904, : : !
Har es7? 27 Feoruary 1963 :
[Pre Ds Print AT Tirnsy :
| Azar ann, New Ow leans

 

SUMMARY. Se a
MA Shmantiy ot Lie

. Ames, Garrigon appeared on Dutch TV on 22 February 1963.. He
continued -- in fact, escalated -- hie attack upon CHA in a persuasive
’ performance. There is a possibility of a follow-up program in
_, Holland ana replays elsewhere in Europe. Garrison's interviewer,
Uiliam L. Oltmans, is a Dutch pro-Camrounist, although he pretends
86 bo, and a homosexual who seomsa to ve or to have been intimate’
with ex-President Sukarno of indonesia.

wd Consideration ta being givon to forwarding 7
— per derogatory information about Garrison from the 0.5

."preoo and vi radio interviews for roloase to CA aseets there.

 

DETALLS

Le - References state that on 22. Fobruary 1968 Garrison ee
appeared on Dutch TV (Duteb Television Foundation, NTS) during -
‘prime time for ons hour (timo not stated}. Nefther roferonce explains
‘wheather Gisrieon travellod to Tha Hague or whether the, show was —

- taped an tho U.S. and sent on tepe to Holland. The Dutch deak believes -
© that the latter io true. i . :

    

wi AES RBI |.
14-00000

cooMET

‘2. The following were Garrioen’a charges: |
> 9, Konnedy waco nurdsred because ho favored a
dotente catrimontal to the intercote of the "imflitary~
. industrial complex". |

b. Keansdy was 5 tha Vvictiin of a CLA pick. CIA
hag :nade gommen cause with tha military -inductrial
- getabliohment because of a vested intercot in matntaining
the cold war. -

c. cia fa ‘committed go the lond war in Acia,
whereas ona of Prooldent Kennedy's laot ordora directed |
a reduction of trcops there.

= - aa
ad; A U.S. preoidant who brings tho U.S. to the
brink of peace will ouffor Kennody's fate.

9. Acked why ths program had been designed for
a European audience, Garrisen cald that tho ‘growing
| §mRusneca of CIA ca U.S. modia had mada fg impossible for .
him to Go heard fa his Gwa country. 5
. +3. Reference A cayo Garricca, calm. and 1a composed, was
- pufiiectenty credible to olicit rathsz favorable reviewo fram gonerally
‘well informed Ruich sawopaporg. “Sovoral Dutch viawero also,
‘eermentud on tha credibility {el Lis porocn end presdatatica.
iLdboly that the NYG will try to y sell this program ti othor Ruropsan
‘etations. ' .

; - Reforsnce B cayo that the Batch preos was gozoratly favozable ;
and that many commonts asted he osomed logieal and al of his. :
facto. The majority opizica omeng Embassy, UZ, racnnol
at The Hague fo that ho esemod crodibts to o larga prepordica of the

~ Deteh viswoss SYMPATHRER BLT \eato thatthe program created an.
allotime low a tio US. image tp the Netherlands. Byte TV alladed’

" t6 9 third part of the interviews Still to coma. 4 }

a
©

5. Carrigca was antorviewed by witarn L. Oltmans. A
oynopels sogarding Oltmans fellows:.

 

 
 

     
      
     
       
     
       
   
   
  
   
   
       
     

oy

a. DPUB ju June 1925 Hulzen, The Netherlands.

 

. .

‘u. Studied at Yale 1959 out exuelled for unstated
misbehavior. .
bad .
c. Thereafter worked vrielly ao correspondent
jor U. 2. and for Dutch paper Be Toteyrant but dio missed
by both for unotated cause.

  

d. An FBI report of 1909 states that he calfo
hdmeelf anti-Conmunist but expreaseo the views ‘of a
great admirer of com-nunism".

e. An I&NS report of 1961 Mists hia addreos for
- i9o601961 ag 118-09 b3rd Ave., Kew Gardens, Long foland,
New York. a .

    
        
     
   
 
      
      

f. A GIA report of 1961 liste him as a UN ‘
correspondent then planning an undponsored trip to Enst-
Gormany, Poland, Cseechoolovakia, and Hungary. Dutch
correspondents cald that they had yet to cee a etory written |
by him. When he applied for membership in the UN i
correspondents asaceiation, he was unable to produce a
. oingle clipping in support of the application. He travels
extensively. Ho has excellent contacts in all Communist
© countries includiag Cuba.
; + ‘Tho Haaque Poot of 15 April 1951, witha ;
: '  wpatlonwide readership, characterised Ol¢mans eo an . Ds
. intimate frlond of the thon Pseoidsent of Indonesia, Sukarno,
aad a9 having tried for five yoare to arrange contacts
- for Sukarno in Holland.

Py arr tar ge ata reenter see

 
   
    
 
  
  

he An FBI report of 26 Rovember 1961 restates

the above ond adds that he had been ceparated or divorced © °

oe . from his Amorican wife 13 months earlier because "he is
ue Ls nota man". Ho was Mving with a male at the time of the

: roport. , ‘ . : Ss

‘oa : . -- &, An FBI report of 1 February 1962 includes an .
Ble oS interview with the ex-wife Frieda Bieling (oho had remarried). .

-

. og .
re Et © siecasmnsn ties wee
