13-00000

SECRET

c) (S) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method. Firms
which assist CLA by permitting the use of their documentation in support of non-official
cover do so voluntarily and without remuneration. In addition, CIA generally requests
that the companies sign secrecy agreements. Therefore, the unilateral release by CLA of

- information about this association would complicate future negotiations by creating the

perception that we are an unreliable partner.

© The official disclosure of one such secret arrangement, even at a 30-year remove,
would almost certainly be noted in the corporate board rooms of all firms that have an
association with CIA. :

(S) Release of information on private sector alias documentation would reduce

. CIA’s range of options for supporting its increasing use of non-official cover. The
~ magnitude of the threat this carries is unpredictable. Because of the versatility of non-

official cover as well as its unique applicability to certain types of targets, CIA’s
apprehensions about giving up information that could help adversaries are substantial.

¢ Non-official cover is the most productive way to gather human intelligence on terrorist
organizations, weapons proliferators, narcotics traffickers, members of international
organized crime and money launderers, and countries with which we have no
diplomatic relations. Almost all of our intelligence for
example, comes from NOC officers and assets.

 

 

 

 

@) (QC Potential physical danger to CTA officers and assets. Adding to an
adversary’s knowledge of specific forms of alias documentation used in non-official cover
could help unmask CIA officers or assets by the profile of typical documentation CIA is
known to carry. With the increased availability of sophisticated statistical analysis, the
threat from “profiling” would increase exponentially as more information is released. This
is of particular coricern when working against hostile targets such as terrorists and narco-
traffickers.

® Intelligence collection against targets like these requires a watertight alias

documentation mechanism that allows our officers to operate as safely.and freely as
possible. :

=>E) Accommodation addresses

c) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method, and
d) Potential physical danger to CIA officers and assets. _

(C) Accommodation addresses were and still are used in support of a wide variety
of covert operations involving both official and non-official cover. The potential damage

SECRET

5
SECRET

from disclosure of specific addresses relates both to present and past users as well as to
those individuals who grant, or granted, CIA the right to use their addresses.

®

The people who give us the right to use their addresses are in many cases not directly
associated with CIA. They may be relatives of CLA employees or simply private
citizens. Disclosure of addresses could complicate the search for individuals willing to
assist CIA. - : ; :

The release of a specific accommodation address, even if it is no longer in use, could
enable an adversary to make positive identifications of an entire series of aliases of
individuals who used that address in support of their cover package.

Conversely, an alias that is released canbe traced through local postal records to a
corresponding accommodation address.

It is possible to endanger those individuals, including foreign assets, known to have

been associated with a given alias, even if the individual who bore the alias is no longer
living. :

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET

Use of non-official cover is expanding rapidly in response to changes in CIA targets
following the collapse of the USSR.

The use by CIA of non-official cover and the details of how it is employed are less"
well known than our use of official cover.

Some of our most uniquely valuable human intelligence comes from this method.

Non-official cover affords its user no diplomatic immunity. Since some of CIA’s most
hostile targets necessitate the use of non-official cover, our officers and assets working

" against these targets run the risk of being arrested, imprisoned, or worse.

4. (S) The likelihood of damage from disclosure of specific information. on alias

documentation and accommodation addresses runs the gamut from “certain” to

“unpredictable.” Based on past evidence, public release of references to thd

 

 

 

passports would be virtually certain to draw a reaction from

 

those governments that would harm US diplomatic relations and deny CIA its use of a
currently valuable tool. The probability of litigation from disclosure of business
documents is also quite high.

The damage from release of 25--30 year-old addresses and specifics on seemingly
innocuous pocket litter is less predictable. Nonetheless, it has broad implications for

: both the current use of non-official cover and for the safety of individuals associated

with these methods in the past; and therefore CIA can not afford-to ignore it. To
manage the risk, if denied the option of postponing the release, would require an
extremely time consuming review of each piece of information on a case-by-case basis.

5. _(U) None of the information being considered for release adds significantly to

the historical record on the Kennedy assassination. The minimal added value from its
release is small in. comparison to the damage, both certain and potential, that would result.
Since the cost-benefit ratio is so skewed, we recommend that release of specific
information on alias documentation and accommodation addresses be postponed and that
generic substitute language be used in its place.

Il. (U) Discussion of Potential Damage

6. (C) Disclosure of information relating to the five categories discussed in

patagraph 2 above can reasonably be expected to cause the following types of damage:

a) Damage to diplomatic relations

 

 

 

 

b) Litigation from private sector firms;

c) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method;

SECRET

2
104-10330-10118

at
. 4

 

SECRET

13 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: | Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: | -. J. Barry Harrelson
' JFK Project Officer
SUBJECT: ‘CIA Proposal on Alias Documentation and
’ Accommodation Addresses in Assassination
Records

1. (U) Background and Recommendation

1. (C) Alias documentation includes materials carried on the person of any CIA
officer or foreign asset traveling and conducting business under a fictitious identity. .
Aliases are widely used by CIA officers working under both official and non-official cover.
They are also used by those on TDY status traveling to or from Headquarters as well as
between field stations.

2. (S) This package contains five kinds of information relating to cover methods
currently in use in connection with aliases:

A) used
. under various aliases); :

B) US federal and state documents (social security cards, drivers licenses, and birth
certificates);

 

 

 

 

C) Business documents used with the prior agreement of the company, organization, or
association they represent;

D) Forged business documents;

E) Accommodation addresses (“residences of record” for anyone working under alias).
_ 3. (S) Many ofthe specific forms of alias documentation represented in this
package are identical to those used today by Agency officers and assets using aliases and

operating under both official and non-official cover. Moreover, certain aspects of their

use in support of non-official cover cause CIA particular concern in the event of
disclosure:

SECRET
“passports. Upon reading this in the Iranian medi:

SECRET

d) Potential physical danger to CIA officers and assets;

e) Potential threats to CIA’s agreements with other US government entities.

7. Category by category, the specific kinds of damage most likely to result from
disclosure of the five types of information outlined in section 2 above are:

 

 

| | J
. a) (S) Damage to US diplomatic relations lwoul

 

 

 

 

 

 

’ result from release of information on assport documentation: In the vat
.CIA’s production and use of various countries’ passports, birth certificates, and other

 

official documents have been done both with and without specific: agreement from those

countries. With respect to the documents in this package reflecting our use of|

passports, the latter was undoubtedly the case. Moreover, CIA still continues to provide

its assets and officers with{ == passports without the agreement of the
overnment.

 

 

°. The leas always been extremely sensitive to issues of national
sovereignty and would almost certainly express official public resentment at CIA’s

veering of its uve authority

(S) There are concrete examples of past incidents involving disclosure which have

 

 

 

 

 

 

" resulted in strong censure and the threat of diplomatic action: In the aftermath of the

Iranian takeover of the US Embassy in Tehran in 1978, among the papers the Iranians
discovered were forged Belgian and West German identification documents including

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e Besides the insult to its sovereignty, at least one additional strong factor in-the

 

 

 

government’s acrimonious representation was the desire to avoid any association
with CIA, however spurious, of, _fitizens living, working, or traveling
abroad. ; :

 

 

 

 

SECRET
13-00000

- SECRET

e As a result of such flaps, CIA has little recourse but to accede to direct demands that
we cease using a given country’s documentation, which narrows our range of options
for providing officers with operational aliases.

=>B) Federal and state documents
(Social security cards, FAA documentation, driver’s licenses, birth certificates)

_ &) (OC Potential threat to CIA’s agreements with other US government entities.
At present, sixteen states assist CLA in providing documentation for alias identities, ;
including drivers licenses. There is an unwritten understanding with each that CIA will do
all it can to protect the confidentiality of this agreement. Although the immediate damage
from release of this would certainly be less severe than the harm done to US diplomatic
relations from the release of information on passport forgery, these arrangements could be

terminated if they receive too much publicity and state officials or politicians were publicly
embarrassed.

e Termination of any of such agreements would curtail CIA’s options for providing its
officers with solid cover.

=>O) and D) Business documents |

 

 

b) Litigation from private sector firms;
¢) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method; and
a) Potential hysical danger to CIA officers and assets.*

b) (OC) Litigation from private sector firms. The same probability of litigation
applies to} idocuments and those produced with the permission of certain
companies. Many of these firms conduct business abroad in a variety of political
environments that range from friendly to hostile. For reasons relating to loss of revenue
and physical threats to their employees and other assets, they cannot afford to have even
the public hint of an association with CIA, let alone official disclosure of this fact.

 

© The likelihood of litigation from such disclosure would be high. CLA’s Office of
General Counsel has on file a number of letters from private sector firms setting forth

their right to take legal action in the event of the disclosure of their relationship with
CIA.

e. In the past, some firms have taken legal action against CIA for disclosure of an

association that adversely affected their business.

SECRET

4
