 

 

   

ae

\

i

 

[4 somber MAR uho wee "responsable adlitar® for the-WRR to ,the

INDERING CAN BE 1UDGED
L BY QUALIRD RQ Ot ONT

 

“1. An increasing oumber-of Guan exiles ara ovv arriving in Venetuela
&» safegonducts are slowly issued by tha Oven Governanat for asylees in
the verioud fureign embdassdem in Habana utr took refuge Aurtig, April LOELS
Atiay these exiies are, some woo tock an active part in iUfferent uodar- ‘+
xround aad guerrilla groups opposisg the Castro ¢overuanut, ome of then 6 .
aie now trying to got vieas wo that thay can repert web thelr clandestine :
activities to thair supariors in the cuban groups is Hiant Dj CIARK-2 hae
crovided the Station wit: the namie of the following perecns ia this cate- : ,
wory whom he tua met in the course of bis activitine tn trying to belp 0... ae
re-locate the Cuban exiles now arriving lu the omimtry:

 

 g. Roger-Antonto *QURRALT varata - born 17 Hoveaber 1907
Mamber NAR who datends to reporttp Evello DUwR. (See aleo
Wea-85R2)
-'k, Omear SRCHROARAY Carreiza - born 4 april igh. Merber
“MRR wo Antends to report.to Evalio IQR txnther vl to] Spal :

ce Ernestine Gatilio “ABREU Horta - born 1) Roveober a OL? pala,
VIS: | ‘ °
province of hatanzas. who intenia to report to Dr. Oscar BALAS., ess,

4. Late Berpabe *ROZA Douliwuer - born 22 October 1956
Mewbler of the Directorio Estudiantil.

@. Gatliermo Aurelio #RO7A Demlogueez - born 2) February. -
1gho.. Member of the Directorio etudiants.L.

f. Bduardo MARCIA Darlayet - torn 25 March 1061, Member
of the Unided Ravolncionaria ww used the nace Juan Bautista

Sanches during underground activities.
2, Since tho local eonsulate no longer normally issues tourist visas

to any Cuban extles but ingieta on their applying for twaivration vieas,
which require 4. 6.se0ks waiting time at a minimin, the’ Station a 2

appreciate any action Resiqiarters my wish te taxes throug to
authorize the loeal conmilate to issue tourist vinas to the himed.
persona, | : : : : :
. — Ot.
[winnses 0. myte( oe

sboi ffandal/kpw - ; : ‘
29 June 196

sek . - mo, :

 

 

pistributica
3 - Chief, HD o . i
@ ~aTMWAVE : . . mo .
2 - Files :
4(es /,
- RST T paren t

 
