 

 

Ps 90r

COMMENT: Again, although Subject might have forgotten
it if he bad been just a plain case officer in the KGB,
he should know of it as a supervisor, or even as
Secretary of the Komsomol Organization (it is a CC/CP8U
queationnaire).

@) GPRAVKA No.1: This document is required for
every peraonnel action. Subject did not react at all to
its name and said he didn't know of it. When it's purpose
was deacribed to hia, Subject managed to give a superficial
description of the document.

COMMENT: An ordinary cage officer would know of the
existence of this form, but would not mecessarily have
ever seen it. As deputy chief of a department, however,
Subject would handle this document 30-40 times a year.
and would be thoroughly familiar with it. Thus, bis
Limited knowleage of it could only have come from a brief.

@) Posluzhney Spsok (Employment and Service Record):
Asked about this document, Subjecg gave a good description of
its nature and purpose. His answer that he himself did not .
fill it out but that it was filled out by personnel on the
basis of the data in his Anketa is perfectly plausible. It
is odd, however, that Subject insisted that he did not sign
this document when he first entered the KGB (as is normally
done). but only “in 1958 or 1957."

2. Subject was asked how be answered some of the questions
in the Anketa, particularly the questions on his forwer wife,
ber relatives, and on bis wother's ancestry. I then asked .
Subject how it was, taking into account his mother's aristocratic
ancestry, the fact that he father died in jail, the Trotskyite
allegations against Subject's father, the fact that Subject's
former father-in-law was still in jail, and the fact that Subject
was present when TELEGIN's apartment was searched -- that he
had been accepted into the KGB, particularly in 1953° Subject ~
admitted that the question was logical, and said that he could
only assume that the fa@fluence of KOBULOY and the imporgant
and influential position of hia own father outweighed these
negative factors. He also cited his GRU experience in this
connection. - :

ea £4 pennetged big sengnd

n_agked fnhion: 4
marriage to the KGB. He replied that before the marriage he
bad mentioned it briefly to GORBATENKO, and that he had

SECRET
EVES ONLY

 
 

10d-40241-10058

 

gen

SECRET
EVES ONLY

HEMORANDUM FOR THE EUCORD
REPORT OF I NYERROGATION
DATE: 29 July 1965
1. Questioning was concentrated on documents that had

to be filled out when Subject was entering the KGB. Kousomol-
questiona and service in the Baltic were not touched at all.

‘Following highlights:

a) AXKETA (DPHQ): Subject displayed a superficial
knowledge of this basic questionnaire. He knows generally
the appearance, the nature of the questions, and the purpoge
of the document. He continued to maintain, incorrectly, that
it was required in two copies, that he filled it out at nome,
Shet it consisted of 4-6 pages. He amended his story to say
that he does not rewaember for sure whether he turned it in
te BOZHENKO's people on one of his first visits. or gave it
to SAXKHAROV when he first reported for work.

COMMENT: An ordinary member of the EGB might conceivably
have forgotten the details of this docuzent which was
filled out only at the beginning of hig career. As a
supervisor, however, Subject claims to have reviewed
many personnel files (as be should have): a such, he
could not possibly make the mistakes that be has about

«- this docum#ent, or be unable to give a better description

%.

b) Secrecy Agreement: Subject himself stated that
be had signed such a form for SAKHAROY when he first reported
for work. He was unable to remember the proper designation
or contents of the document, however, The description of
the wording which he provided was siailar to that used prior
to 1947; also, it is similar to the secrecy agreement that -
might be signed by an agont.

ce) Licbniy Listok Bo Uchetu Kadrov: This is not a
wery important docuzent, t 1¢ is filied out by every
officer, and ig found in every personnel gile. Subject vas

got only anable to recall it, he maintained he had sever
beard of it even afterit was.described to bis. .

|
!

SECRET
EYES CLy

A ROT: EEE SA A HAE FN HN A cg OE a li AA eee et
 

 

SECRET
FYE rs py y

unofficially run a nae check on hie prospective bride. (which
was “clean"), and that after the warriage he had filled out
another anketea for personnel in which he iacluged all the
required data on his wife and her relatives. After considerable
prompting, Subject said that he had indicated that she and her
parents had Deen in France, but that be had concealed the fact
that her grandmother had been in German occupied territoty
during the war (he admitted that the KGB would have learned
this in a routine check, however.) I then reviewed for Subject
the negative security factorg mentioned above, adding the
arrest of KOBULAV, the fact that his new wife and her parents
had been abroad, the fact that her grandmother was in German-
occupied territory, the fact that Subject was now everage for.
the Komgomol but not yet a party member or candidate, and the
fact that Subject received a 15 day sentence for misuse of
cover documents and incurring venereal disease, and asked

4f£ he didn't think that ‘hia personnel file had been reviewed
in 1954, and 16 so. whet grounds there could have been for
retaining him in the KGB. Subject said that he thought that
his file probably was reviewed but that again the influence

of bis fatber had saved him. Subject added that another
important factor was probably hia language qualification and
particularly his higher education. I told Subject that ve
would examine the question of his education in greater detail
later. He made no comment. I algo pointed out to Subject
that if his secoad wife and her parents bad been abroad it

was impossible that ber name check could have been negative.
He aduitted it was illegi¢al, but insisted that this wag so.

4. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence continues to pile up to show
that Subject was never in a supervisory position in the KGB,  _
and thet be could not have and did not enter the EGB in 1953.
His weak knowledge of the documents discussed indicates that
af be was ever in the EGB at all it was léter, and for a
relatively short time.

6. Despite the fact that I continued to challenge Subject |
frequsntly, the tone of the interrogation was perticularly
friendly teday. The following exchange was of some interest:

Subject: You probably worked for twonty years in personnel?!

"qed: Not exactly. You should know better.

 

Bubject: No, x don't know. “TE you told me your name?

Ted: We'll talk about that later, and maybe even drink
te each other's health.

- SECRET
EVES ONLY

 

 
74-0000

 

 

SECRET
n
EViS ORLY
_6, The plan for tomorrow's session is to attack Subject
ou his service in the Baltic in 1952.
Ted i.
ohes
st th
,
SECRET?
EVES OMY
