74-00000

 

 

 

Poe

  

organizational changes can be forseen for the coming project
year.

b. Funds requested for FY 1964 total $83,808
compared to $99,000 granted for use in 1963. A great part
of the reduction of $15,192 ia due to the fact that the
Station programmed: no new equipment purchases for the
coming year.

4, Intelligence Production:

Although the emphasis of the LIFEAT Project is
on Station operational support, the project through May 1963

‘Was totally or partially responsible for 31 positive intor-—

mation reportea of which 29 were diuseminated, Of the
disseminations, 13 involved the activities of Juan Jose
AREVALO Bermejo or hia followers,

5. Effectiveness;

The LIFEAT Project in a model telephone tap
operation. During the last project year LIPEAT continued
to actively support tho operationn of the Station by
providing leads and information ‘un selected targets,

In addition to this mission the project provided on a
regular basis valuable information on active Soviet inteli-
igence officers, the Polish and Yugoslav official install-

“ations and personnel, selected Cuban personnel (10 Lines),

American Communists in Mexico, Moxican leftiats and, exile
groups in Mexica, In the latter field the tntensive
coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo was particularly
rewarding. It in believed that the support provided other
Station operations, the CI/CB information and leads, the
ability of the LIFEAT operation to cover sonst-
tive targets without revealing Station interests to

 

 

 

 

 

 

} well guatify the oxponditure of funds,

 

time, personnol and the security rink.
8. Problems:

In the past year as in the past few years the
greatest problems have concerned the security of tho operation
and equipment. The current problems conter on two devel-

opments:

a. The Mexico City telephone system is continually
being modernized. Installation of new underground
cables replactng the ole overhend lines reduce access
to target lines. The Telephone Company 18 keeping

4

 
[ita 10488-10082

 

 

  

 

19 June 1963

SUBJECT: Renewal of Project LIPEAT for FY 1964

The attached LIPEAT Project Renewal Request, as prepared
in project. outline form by the Mexico City Station, is
forwarded for approval.

1. Objectives:

‘The objective of this project is to provide,
through a telephone tap operation, information
on the activities of selected individuals and groups is
response to both Station needs and Headquarters requests.

2. Agents:

&. LIEMBRACE-8 who normally functions under the
MKCHARITY Project was actively employed in the technical

 

-phase of the- operation during..the home leave, period of ...

principal outside case officer, David M. WILSTED.

b. During the past project year, 5 indigenous
basehouse keepers were dropped from the project. LIFEUD-14
and LIFEUD-17, a married couple, decided on separation and
eventual divorce, thus making tho continuance of their
bagehouse keeping duties tmpossible. LIFEUD-22 and LIFEUD-23,
gon and sother, occupy a baswhouse that was originally
intended to be used for LIFEAT but is being used only in
another operation, LIFEUD<27 was granted a POA during
the project year but was never recruited.

c, Threa new agents have been employed since the
last project renewal. LIFEUD-24 is an old friend of
WILSTED's who will be uned as a basehouse keeper and trans-
lator xlong with LIFEUD-26 who is his wife. LIFEUD-25,
the wife of LIFEUD-4 had been included in her husband's
clearance but has now received her own clearance as a
basehouse keeper.

3. Changes:

‘a. Other than the personnel changes described ia
paragraph 2.above, there were no organizational changes in
the project in the past project year. At this time no
 

closer track of the assignments of its felophone
 Mnenen thereby reducing the mobtitty of the =

 

 

 

 

 

 

te, b. A government investigation which is under
way alloys investigating crowa to onter any distrie
bution box, aad check back on any connection: in the
box to see if tt ie actually fin uso, On one occasion.
a eEAT rang beck on @ e@pare which was boing used by

All LIFEAT personnel have been trained to take
whatever action would bo nocesary tu prevent, or negate
tho effecta of a security flap. Vor details of the
prublomus faced and the precautions taken by the Station,

_, 800. paragraph .14 of the attached Project Outline,

7. Giatson:

Not applicable

8, Interngency coordination:
Not applicable

®. Plans:

It igs planned that LIFEAT will as in the past
provide valuable information on a continuing basta on top
priority targets and at the same time remain floxible
enough to be employed in support of other Station projects
Against targets of opportunity. LIFEAT has tho capability
of reactivating its coverago un tie importast targeta now
being covered by thet /LEENVOY Project if the:
latter should have ta be discontinued for any reason,

10, Funda:

Sufficiont funds have been programmed in the WH
Divinion's PY 1964 budget for the LIFEAT Project.

 

ll, Recommendations:

It is requested that Projoct LIFEAT be approvod
for FY 1964, 1 July 1963 through 30 June 1964, ia the
amount of $83,808, oe

ane aresy

 
