   
     
   
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
       
 

74-00000

scadacems QF CONARENTIL = @_
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

- DATE: 10, October 1955,

    
 
 

 

. "The subject person is under "consideration for conversion from contrac
mployee t _Statt employee in!

 

       

. Subject is a 36 year old married man 1 ho ‘has been with ‘the Agency un
*" sontract since early 1952, He was investigated by SSD prior to that” employs
: ment and .was_polygraphed with favorable. results in early 1952,.

  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
   

   

 

& The ‘key “Stem in this case ‘is his having Served the FET as a men! er of.
the: Communist Party from August 19h6 until May. 19h9 when he- was” “surfaced. ‘oF
the’ p purpose of _restifying against. the’ eleven leaders of ‘the Communist Party:

   

. Subject 's service to the. FBI was. “described by the FEI “in ‘a memorandum “e
: dated in January 1951 which was furnished to ‘the Army in very favorable terms. :
. The FBI stated that while serving them "he furnished much valuable, inform:
‘and was considered "a valuable: informant, LJ In’ a statement furnished tothe
". Agency in November 1951 at the time we were checking on Subject, the FBI gave’
_us the same information, Since the date Subject was employed by the Agency
geveral inquiries have been received from the FBI and from the Immigration
‘and Naturalization Service,_ These - ‘requests. concern the availability of Sut
* Ject tothe Bureau and to the Tamigration, and Naturalization Service, for
_ interview and for’ testifying,

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  

   

* “Subject ta nenber ship in the Party and his | service to the FBI “one Kiwi
prior to his: “being: employed; . He attached a statement to his Personal History
_ Statement in: which ‘he ‘stated that.in October 1946"he was approached'by certain -
, functionaries of “the Communist Party who urged him time and again to join thé-
Communist Party, ‘He said that finally’ 1 November’ 1946, ‘he’ arrangéd an inter:
te ne the FET" and - following ‘that interview c
° my a 17 = oe we

‘

  
 

 

 

As stated above, subject rendered Valuable service to the FBI, SSD°
reports that his services with CIA have been Satisfactory. These favorable :
Statements, however, are insufficient to answer a question which has not been .
answered in the investigative material’ available as to why Subject was approached °
by the Communist Party to join: the Party and why they were, as Subject reports,
80 insistent upon his Joining. At the time he joined the Party he was serving
as @ correspondence clerk in a wholesale food company in New York City. - It is
possible that an answer exists in the fact that the FBI states that Subject |
was of interest to them from August 1946 on, while Subject states that he did .
not contact the FBI until November of 1916, The possibility exists that. in.
the three months gap noted, Subject may have been laying, at the’ request of.
the "Br, ¢ the ground work for the contact by the Party,” :

 

 

 

  

SS Rasy othe tanta lt OP nes Bag AS RODE tactic AD oN Be MRI.
 

oat]

RETURN To ©
_ Background in

Oo NOt Reproduce’

‘STANDARD FORM No, G4

. Office Memorandum + onrrep stares GOVERNMENT

mW. Ween pares SOP
FROM : LA fen

SUBJECT: Bod algo, Ds ae im,

canteen, .
BAG AP
ee
     
   

14-00000

eee QL

It is recommended, therefore, that this matter be discussed with Mr,

 

pich to determine if the FBI ever exmlored and was satisfied as to Sub-
ject's conduct or activities prior to his being contacted by the Communist
-arty functionaries,

«.

Ww. A. Osborne
