74-00000

OHIAT3IO turned down this 7

SEP OET
aflutiee
-2-

Due to his educational tac.ervund in religion, Subject was nevertheless
leoked up to by his more ilitterate and unfortunate compatriots, due
Frirarily to his faculty of speech and education. In seeking vays of
getting out of Greece, and che unhappy lot of « refugee, he vas able to go
to Switzerland where he stutyed In a theological seminary under the
auspices of the World Couxeii of Churches (WCC).

5. During 1958, while visiting GOLONESOME in Switcerland, she told
the undersigned thet she hei heard of Subject from other friends and that
they had been highly suspicious of him and felt that he might te a BIS
agent or something. This vas predicated on Subjects discussiors and
activities while in Switeeriacd. .

6. Subject next came to the undersigned's attention after Subject's
arrival in the United States and his affiliation in work concerning refugees.
By this time Subject professed to be-a staunch nationalist and republican ~
and condemned anybody vo hei belonged to Acrarian factions, especially
those from a center to lsft. According to Boris Clarz, a former contract
exployee of this Agency «ho was also stationed in Greece as an interrogator
and later resigned to take a position in Pittsburgi, Pa. involved in the
helping and settling of Bulssrian refugees coming to the United States,
Subsect used his legiticate finesn as a cover for self-sessranditenent and
political prestige in the isn emigre groups. foth Clark end his wife
complained bitterly to Deen csuff, then Caief of the Eulcarian Eranch,
end Clark also complained te the undersigned concerning RATKT's activities,
which in view of whet he vas suspected to be doing, were highly suspect.
According to the Clerk's, Sutiect's activities could indicate that his Job
was to create chaos end diviston among Bulgarian emigres and vhibh could
logically be a requirement af the BIS.

 

    
 

7. In 1956, SUROCI (P) = contract acent of this Agency, inforced the

undersigned thut Subject had { @ the Dulgarian National Front and vas
speaking loud and dtrorg for return of a gonarchy when Fulgaria is lib-
erated. By this tine, dutJes: nad made a 180° turn politically from left
ving Agrarian to monarch te} rationalist. SUROCI Jikevise advised that
Subject vas continuing his rts to dominate the Pulgsrian church group
and in so doing had caused f in the Nationalist Block, which et best
was being held together by nerely threads. SUROCI could offer no proot, but
felt that Subject may have t actifg on behalf of the present regime or
313 in causing chaos in the exisres or vas doing it strictly for self-
agsrandizement and 2molumeat.

 
  

 

   

  
  
     

ect has been the topic of conversation -
of this Agency, and the undersigned. .
5, DILALDIO had been very active in the
Church in America. Ee was the ley presijent
& rapproch:s
i been asked by Bishop Anire, head of the
ncluding Macedonia, to corsicer study for
Sorsplacing A.dre upon che laiters death.

lial since he felt he « > to :
Me educational ficld, but toll Andre he would continue to Nuaictiin as the

8. Over a period of tire
yetween DILADBIO (P}, a con
Prior to coming to Washingtoc
Csurch activities of the Eulg
of the Church group and had *
the Sulgerfan church. DILA

ulgerion Church in North &
the priesthood ani with a vi

 

    
  
   
  

  
 
 

 

 

   

eTopey
  

104-10178-10189

op

 

—!

grtane
ec, \
+ ® SEP isu \

SUBJECT: Spas Todorov RAIKIN : \
igre ,
Ll. A review of Subject’s 201 file (201-282538) reveals that many
reports emanating from Kavalla Basélare missing or rather had never been
included in the file and that subsequent activities of his in Switzerland,
and the United States had never been reported.

7 \5-I%
2. The undersigned was directly involved with dubject!s initial

refuge in Greece, as the undersigned was ave Chier at Kavallajat the tine
and participated in the interrogation of Subject and the others who defected
with him due to the suspicious nature of their escape story. During later
years, in the course of debriefing various contects and consultants, Subject's
name came up during these discussions and the undersigned was able to piece
together the sequence of affairs from the time of RAIKIN's escape until the

present. ©

3. During the summer of 1951, Subject, along with two other individuals
who were all Trudovaks working on airfields in Bulgaria, escaped to Greece.
In cennection with their escape, four other individuals likewise escaped
to Greece. During Subject's interrogation and the interrogation of his
friends, it was felt that the escape story needed clarification from a CE '
standpoint. To the best of our tmowledge, however, none of the individuals,
dneluding Subject, appeared to be connected with the DIs. There was a poss-
ibility which was mentioned at the time, that, Subject, due to his educational
background, may have beeu a "sleeper" type agent. During Subject's initial
interrogation he stated that politically he was partial to, although not a
member of, the Nikola Petkov faction (left wing) of the Agrarian party. It
was likewise determined that Subject's interest precluded operational use
as a cross border agent and neither he nor his colleagues vere recruited.

The other four individuals who escaped separately to Creece were, however,

recruited.

&. Upon arrival in the DP camp in Athens (Lavrion) Subject became
involved in political discussions and at that time claimed to be an adherent
of the Dinitur Gichev faction (righ: wing) of the Agrarian party, which aad
been outlawed upon the event of comsunism in Bulgaria. His political mach-
inations caused splitting of the reTugees into splinter groups and rather
than succeeding in affecting unity, it caused disunity. Again the thought
came up as to whether Subject was a provocation agent or not. However, no
evidence vas uncovered to substantiate this theory.

enarc:
SEO

 
 

 

—

lay leader of the church. During thia tine DILALBIO reported to the
undersigned that Subject, upon arrtvel in the States had gone to great
lengths to talk to cach of the individeue] Eulgarian And Macedonian
presidents in the vafious cities and later on attempted lo get them td
back him (Subject) for the futuré job of Bishop. A long fight developed
between RAIKIN and the Bishop when the Lishop stated tat he dtd, not, p el
Subject qualified to hundle. the Jobs due to his activities , iny) wSiveablan
Church in North America almost disintegrated as a cohesive unit. When

the matter finally came to a vote and it developed Subject would not get
the job, but would be offered a pricathued, he suddently decided, despite
the years and money spent on him by WCC in theological training, that he
aid not want to be a priest anyway and, a few weeks later, turned around
and married a girl in-New York. This act, of course, prohibits him from
ever aspiring to be Bishop. Since that time on numerous occasions, Subject
using his offices in WCC as a cover, has agent Yenunciatory letters con-
cerning other Buligariens to various US Government agencies if these Bulge
arians happened to have crossed bim or if he has taken a dislike to them.
By the same token, he has written letters concerning Bulgarians whom.

he espouses to various agencies in order to obtain asuistance in the grant-

ing of visas and of obtaining jobs.

9. The undersigned, like all other sources involved, cannot offer any
evidence that Subject is an agent of the Bulgarian Comnunist regime, but
feels that his activities have certainly played into their hands and
have been auch as they would have conducted through a provocation or
sleeper type agent. To be frank, the undersigned feels thet perhaps

Subject ia an over ambitious, mercenary, megalomaniac, who is not content

unless he is stirring up things in which his nase will appear in prominence

and from which he can derive some benefit.
hee uM.

 

SEGE TE
