e

(ttor-t0185

wee /

 

 

 ¢ OLY rc
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
i: Tuesday. - 8 November 1977

 

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call oo
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations ..-.. / -
Subcommittee on International Operations, who was following upona = -—~
request he made on4 November for a copy of the secrecy oath which |

__ former DCI Richard Helms had signed. I told Mr. Glennon that I was
checking this out with the appropriate elements of CIA and ‘Roped § to .
- have an answer for him by the following day. -

 

   
   
 
   
  
  

 
 
   
   
    
 
  
 

 

38, (Internal Usa Only - 'PG) © LIAISON Spoat the better Cart = 2
a of tha afternoon in the Coordination & Review staff conference room with
” Michael J. Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on - Lo.
_ International Organizations, House International Relations Committee. oo
__ | Also present were DDO representatives Evalina Vidal ~
_.:, (for only the beginning of the meeting) and «We discussed
_the Subcommittes's request to make certain CIA information public. :
., and Mr. Hershman gave us a summary he had prepared for the use of
-. Members at upcoming public hearings. Mrs. | will review the |
_. summary and sanitize it as necessary. The remainder of the session
- Was spent in an exchange of views as to CIA's role in ongoing -
: “Congressional investigations of ROK/KCIA and related eubjects, | :

 

 

 

39. (Internal Use Only - RIK) LIAISON Spoke with, Lot Cooke, :
on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning .. ©
William R. Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works
for the Rand Corporation. Since Harris has already been briefed at
Rand on. compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for him te
receive a briefing on thern at this time. Jack Williamson, SO/ DCL, -
has been advised,

Gooke also requested the clearances held by Professor G. Robert
Blakey,. Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, and Gary Cornwell, of the staff, because they wishto ~
review a sensitive Committee document. After checking with Dan Godar, ©
OS, I advised him that they had their proper clearances for reviewing
the documents. . ; ; 7

. 40. (Unclassified - RSG) ‘LIAISON Spoke ‘ ‘with Betsey Wolf,
inations stafi, and offered to send to
her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document
was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents ~
involving the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

 

  

sae

. Roos?
"INTER HAL USE ONLY

xy

ty
