13-00000

 

duplicates, check the items you want, return the printouts to
us, and we will gladly reproduce the items you choose for a
cost of ten cents per page less the first 100 pages to which
you are entitled free of charge. A copy of our schedule of
fees is also enclosed for your information.

With respect to Item 2 of your request, this agency offers
its reading room in those instances where documents have been
released but have yet to be indexed in our system of previously
released material. The material you have requested has been
indexed and the printouts are enclosed for your personal use.
For your information, however, the reading room is located in
Rosslyn and is open Monday through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to
5 p.m. We do request that appointments be made at least two
weeks in advance.

With respect to Item 3 of your request, other than the 124
pages of material which you have received, no additional ,
information has been declassified under the Historical Review
Program at this time. However, this office has been informed
that it is expected that the review of six linear feet of
material from the Oswald file will be complete and subsequently
transferred to the National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) within a month for availability to the public.

We are unable to assist you with Item 4 of your request as
we are unable to accept a request for material which does not
exist. As we advised you on 29 June 1992 with respect to your
F92-1267 request, we have been advised that no such lists have
been compiled to date, but that the Agency does intend to
publish an annual index through the Historical Review Program
which will identify CIA documents released in whole or in part
during the preceding year and which were subsequently
transferred to NARA for availability to the public. We are
uncertain as to when such an index will be compiled and,
therefore, are unable to assist you with that portion of your
request at this time.

With respect to your request for a fee waiver, since the
Material listed on the enclosed printouts has been previously
released to numerous requesters and is already in the public
domain, its re-release would not contribute significantly to
the public understanding of the operations and activities of
the United States Government. Therefore, your request for a
fee waiver is denied and you will be required to pay copying
costs as described above.
13-00000

Meanwhile, we trust that the information provided above
and the enclosed material have satisfied your request.

Singerely,

KA ip

John H. Wright
ion and Privacy Cog

   
  
  

  
  

Inform

Enclosures
OIT/IMG/IP&CRD/£po/£aj/25AUG92

Distribution:
Orig -— Adse

1 - Chrono

1 - IP&CRD/F92-1724 GIF

1 - CR F92-1267 (Judge)

_wl_=-OYDCI/CSI/HRG Attn: John Carver, 1003 Key Bldg. -
coordinated by phone 8/26/92
1 - fpo .

ID# 28327

 
13-00000

 

3 1 AuG 1992

Mr. John Judge

Committee for an Open Archives
P.O. Box 6008

Washington, D.C. 20005

References: F92-1724
F92-1267

Dear Mr. Judge:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your 14 August 1992
letter wherein you requested an amendment of your earlier
request (F92-1267) by adding to the original query the
following:

"1)[l]lists or indexes of all materials concerning
Lee Harvey Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy
that have been released under the provisions of the FOIA...

2){l]Jocation and hours and terms of public access to the
FOIA-required reading room for such documents.

3){a] copy of all documents on the topics mentioned above
that have been declassified under the Historical Review Program
but not transferred to NARA for public availability" [with the
exception of the 124 pages of material in the Oswald
pre-assassination file which you indicated that you have
obtained].

4)[{a]n annual list of all documents declassified under
the Historical Review Program and transferred to the NARA when
such a list is compiled."

This request for additional information has been assigned
a separate reference number, F92-1724, and all future
correspondence with respect to the additional information
requested will be addressed accordingly.

With respect to Item 1 of your request, enclosed are
machine printouts listing previously released documents on the
subjects of John F. Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald. Please
review the printouts bearing in mind that there may be

 
13-00000

period does not include the time it will take to coordinate
other-agency documents with their originating agencies. My
estimate also does not include the time period for any appeals
that Agency components may initiate regarding decisions by the

HRG to declassify documents.  ..

I declare, under ‘penalty of perjury, that the foregoing is true

and correct.

Executed this _’r4 day of July 1992.

 

   

JOHN F. PEREIRA

 
13-00000

significant historical information available to the public
without damage to the national.security interests of the United
States. The Program operates pursuant to the policies and
procedures approved by the DCI on April 28, 1992 and to be
published in Agency regulation. HR 70-14. Pursuant to these
policies and procedures, the Agency will transfer records

declassified and approved for release under the Program to the

‘National Archives and Records Administration for public use.

4. The HRG is responsible for the declassification review

-o£ records under the Program in accordance with the policies

and procedures approved by the DCI and additional guidelines
that may be promulgated by the Director, Center for the Study
of Intelligence, with the approval of the DCI. The HRG is

required to consult with the Agency Archivist and responsible

directorate and DCI area Information Review Officers during the

declassification- review process. The policies and procedures “*
prescribe an intra-agency appellate procedure by which Agency
components may appeal determinations by the HRG that certain
records or portions of records qualify for declassification
under the Program. The final appellate authority regarding
declassification decisions under the Program is the DCI.

5. Under the Historical Review Program, individual
documents will be released in full, withheld in full, or
released in part.. When a document cannot be released in full,
the HRG will make an effort to sanitize the document by
deleting those portions that may not be declassified, or that

2

 
13-00000

may not be made public for other lawful reasons. However,
under the policies and procedures approved by the DCI, efforts
to sanitize documents will be made only when the effort will
not unduly slow the pace of the review, will not obscure the
record's essential significance, and will not distort the
document's bibliographical identity. Documents that cannot be

sanitized according to these criteria will be withheld in full

‘under ‘the Program.

«6. The first’ group of records to be reviewed under the
Program has been selected by the DCI. He has directed the HRG
to review for declassification under the Program all CIA
records related to the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy. The HRG is presently reviewing these materials as a
priority matter. However, the HRG is also reviewing materials
relating to other matters of historical interest. The
materials relating to the assassination ef President Kennedy
comprise approximately 63 boxes of documents and one box
containing 72 or 73 reels of microfilmed documents. We
estimate that the total number of pages involved to be
approximately 250,000 to 300,000. We estimate that
approximately 27 percent are documents originated by other
government agencies with which the HRG will need to coordinate
before declassifying or sanitizing these documents.

7. +I currently estimate that the HRG will take
approximately six to twelve months to review the documents
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. This time

3

 
13-00000

. Ae t file: JFK

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Office of Genera! Counsel OGC-92-51849
; 13 July 1992

Richard R. Brown, Esq.
U.S. Department of Justice
Civil Division, Room 946
901 E. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20530

Re: Allen v. DoD, Declaration of John F. Pereira
Dear Mr. Brown:

Please find enclosed for filing in the referenced case the
Original declaration of John F. Pereira, Chief of the Historical

Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency.

Feel free to call me with any comments or questions.

Sincerely,

 

Enclosure
104-10337-10003 /
‘ . tof OF? PL F003

 

 

A lhe

t 4

  

ao iy FRE

 

Mr. James H. Lesar
918 F Street, N.W., Room 509
Washington, D.C. 20004

Reference: F92-1087
Dear Mr. Lesar:

This is further’ to our letter dated 11 June 1992 regarding
your 18 May 1992 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for.
"all records reviewed by the Historical Review Group” regarding
"the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.”

As you are aware, the Director of Central Intelligence
has made the decision to have all of the previously withheld
John F. Kennedy documents reviewed under the CIA's Historical
’ Review Program. Once the review has been completed, we will
provide you with whatever CIA records are released. However,
because of the volume of material involved, we cannot tell you
at this time how long the review will take.

As a matter of administrative discretion, fees will not be
assessed in this particular instance.

Meanwhile, we will appreciate your patience while we
complete the review of the material referred to above.

Singerely ? / f
cy 4 Set
iF G9 ViK} YW Wi Lyi

John H. Wright —
Information and Privacy Co

       
 

OIT/IMG/IP&CRD/Epo/tj/29MAY92

Distribution:
Orig - Adse
1 - Chrono

1 - IP&CRD/F92-1087 ACK; review of JFK documents
RE REECRD/ALB ATTN: Debbie for JFK litigation file -
- DCI/HS Attn: JPereira 316 Ames w/copy incoming -
coordinated by phone 6/24/92
1 - fpo

ID# 27183
13-00000-

 

we

id

aoa

Allen v. DOD - Cover Letter with attached Declaration of
John F. Pereira

OGC-92-51849

DCI/OGC/LD/RJEatinger:dak 76105/13 July 1992

Distribution:

Orig -

Fe et et pe bet bat et
1

Adse. w/att

John F. Pereira, C/HRG w/att

EC (FYI) w/att

WGI (FYI) w/att

RJE Signer w/att

OGC Registry w/att

MAT (Declaration Chrono) w/att

KTK (Reference File) w/att

Lit File: Mark A. Allen v. DOD, et al. w/att
13-00000

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

MARK A. ALLEN
Plaintiff,

OGC-92-51849
Vv. : Civil Action No. 81-2543 TAF
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, et al.,

Defendants.

Nt at Nat et Nat Neal Nel St Saat et

DECLARATION OF JOHN F. PEREIRA
CHIEF, HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP
—__ CENTRAL _ INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 0 ~
I, JOHN F. PEREIRA, hereby declare and say:

1. I am the Chief of the Historical Review Group (HRG) of

_ the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or Agency). I have held

this position since the HRG was established in April, 1992. My
responsibilities include management of the Historical Review
Program, supervising the staff of the HRG, and directing
coordination of the review process with both Agency components
and other agencies.

2. I make the following statements based upon my personal
knowledge, and upon information made available to me in my
official capacity. I submit this declaration in response to
the Plaintiff's Motion To Compel Defendants To Reprocess All
Records At Issue In This Case.

3. The Agency's Historical Review Program was established

by the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) to make

,

 
