 

 

a SECRET ~ 3)

%
. that some of this mail was delivered, but like most of the operations de-
' seribed in this section, it is unknown tf the program was effective in

increasing Cuban resistance.

C. INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION/ESPIONAGE
1. Refugee and Defector Explottation:

Cuban’ refugees were entering the United. States at the rate of 1700
per week during 1961-62. The Immigration. and Naturalization Service (I&NS)
- recorded basic biographic data on ‘all incoming refugees. Cards, containing :
this data, were provided to the Miami Station to conduct a file check for
counterintelligence purposes. In revtewing the cards, the Station identi-
fied refugees who might be used for operational purposes and arranged
interviews which, Frequently, also provided positive intel Ligence infor-
mation. , a
CIA's Domestic Contact Division (pen) had primary esponsibility.
for obtaining positive intelligence information from refugees. DCD inter-
viewed refugees of positive intelligence interest at the Caribbean Admis-
sions Center (CAC) in Opa-Locka. These interviews were documented in
Preliminary Information Reports (PIRs) which were provided to the Intel-
_Vigence Community and to the Miami Station for review to obtain opera-
’ tional leads. . .

Prior to the Cuban Missile crisis in October 1962, the flow of
-~9-
SECRET
 

SC SECRET .

%

refugees was large, and it was relatively easy to obtain information on
current events in Cuba and Cuban exiles that could be utilized opera-
tionally. Following the crisis, the flow of refugees decreased signifi- :
cantly. As a result, the Station established a section to exploit
refugees more intensively, to central tze files on refugees. and to pre-
pare, Studies on exile groups: operating in the U. Se

2. Anonymous | Organization Group:

During 1960-63, this Group consisted of between 50 to 100. Cuban
exiles who constituted a structured intelligence support group for the
Station. It performed a variety of functions for the Station, and it
was the Station’ S prime source of information on. Cuban exile activities,
It is considered the single mast valuable operational activity under~
taken by the Station. In summary, this Group: ;

a. ‘Infiltrated exile. groups and reported on their
activities. .

b. “Maintained extensive files on Cuban exiles, exile
groups and Cuban Government personalities. :

c. . Monitored Cuban tadio broadcasts and summarized
content. .

d. Produced intelligence. reports and special Studies,

e. Debriefed refugees. ,

~#. Recruited infiltration agents.

SECRET

 

 

 

 
 

on SECRET . “y

i

aS an accurate and objective ‘reporter of events. It prepared four news
' bulletins a week which were distributed to 1200 Latin American news
outlets and prepared radto tapes based on the bulletins which were dis~

.

tributed to hemisphere radio Stations.” oe oe
4. Radio Americas (Radio Swan): |
An Agency=financed radio. station; the transmitter was located on
_ Swan Island with broadcast studios in New York initially and later Mian‘.
) Started broadcasting in mid=1960 with entertainment programs Purchased
from Pan: American Broadcasting interspersed with news programs and propa~
ganda. CIA sponsorship Was an open secret. Its image and Credibility

was smudged considerably as a ‘result of its use in the Bay of Pigs opera-

tion. Most audience. response was. received From Carribbean countries out-

Side of Cuba. oo

5. Hailing Operation: .

Most Propaganda mailing operations were. directed to Latin- American

countries outside of Cuba. This project, initiated. in 1963, was designed
aS a mass mailing operation into Cuba to encourage subtle sabotage, re-
sistance and harassment. Utilizing names and addresses from Cuban’ tele-
phone books, letters with. Fictitious return addresses were mailed to
Cuba from various Latin American countries and by insertion into inter-

national mail transiting the U. S. From refugee debriefings, it ts known

~8-
SECRET
 

 

SECRET

&

weekly basis the UR published a list of free world ships visiting Cuba.
This was consistently picked up by the Associated Press and Agence
France Presse. Throughout its history, the UR was wracked with internal
bickerings and power grabs which detracted from its impact.
2. Agency. Supported Individuals:
Aside from utilizing various extle organizations: for propaganda

purposes, CIA also supported several prominent exiles who prepared propa-

"ganda materials. Zig Zag Libre was a successful satire magazine in Cuba

prior to the Castro regime. The Agency supported its former editor who

. published an edition for mailing into Cuba. In the 1963 period it was

considered an effective weapon for ridiculing Castro. CIA also supported

“a former prominent student leader, and one of the former directors of

Prensa Libre, a leading Havana newspaper. These individuals produced
daily radio programs for Radio Swan and prepared propaganda materials

for publication. These individual efforts tended to be more effective

_and to receive better audience ‘esponse from Cuba than the organizational

broadcasts described above.

Agencia de_Informaciones Periodesticas. (AIP):--

AIP was a news information service financed by CIA. Agency
sponsorship was. an open secret. It was designed to fill the gap in

coverage by the regular news media. It was accepted in the hemisphere

-~7-
SECRET
 

 

SECRET

‘
d. Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE):

Led by several former~Cubanr-student-teaders:-~€iA-support-to ~
the DRE started prior to the Bay of Pigs. The DRE was primarily a para~
military organization and prior to April 1961, °21 DRE “nenbers were trained
and infiltrated into Cuba to create resistance and guerrilla units. “This

DRE apparatus was destroyed itn the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs. Subse~

- quent paramilitary operations also ended in fatlure and CIA withdrew tts

_ paramilitary support in December 1961. In January 1962, the DRE turned

to hemispheric propaganda operations. — DRE sponsored students were placed

in Latin American untversities where they carried on anti-Castro activi-

ties. This so-called student project also engaged in such activities as

drumring up support for the U.S. position at the 1962 Punto del Este Con-

ference and carrying out successful operations at the Helsinki Youth
Festival in Nay 1962. Starting in 1962, the DRE began broadcasts over .
NY shortwave radio station WRUL six days a week and Miami radio station
WMIE once a week. The DRE also (published an. international. bulletin which
was mailed to contacts throughout the hemisphere and a- pony edition of
4,800 copies was mailed into Cuba.
e. Frente Obero Revolucionario Democrat ico Cubano (FORDC):
Established by CIA in October. 1960 asa rallying point. for

middle and upper echelon trade unionists. in exile.. Led’ by former Cuban’

-~ 5 =
“SECRET.

»

 

 

 

 
 

SECRET

‘

Tabor ‘leaders, FORDC published a weekly circular letter which was mailed
to Tabor organizations throughout Latin America, Prior to 1961, FORDC
. sponsored a daily program over Radio Americas (Radio Swan). Starting in
December 1961, FORDC broadeast a daily program over ‘station WMIE. In
addition to published and radio propaganda, . groups of FORDC leaders were
Sent on trips throughout Latin America to maintain contact with hemi-
sphere labor leaders and to sample attitudes toward Castro. FORDC also
maintained contact with international labor organizations. .
f. Unidad Revolucionaria (UR): 7

- Originally established in Cuba in December 1960 as a clan-
destine resistance movement. Its leadership was largely put to death or
imprisoned as a result of the Bay of Pigs. The organization was re-
established in Miami in August 1962 with CIA Support. A paramilitary
“arm was established in April. 1963, “but no effective paramilitary action
was ever carried out. Starting fn March 1963, UR sponsored a daily
radio program over WMIE targetted at Cuban farmers and another daily
program exposing Cuban internal security service activities. In July
1963, UR initiated a shortwave broadcast From. Station WRUL, New York.
The UR utilized nonobjective, lurid propaganda themes. - The UR was also
a prolific producer of Propaganda pamphlets. During 1963-64, 1,442,500

items were mailed to Cuba and other Latin American countries. On a

SECRET

 
 

 

SECRET

LS

Swan is another example of an operation which continued after the Bay of
Pigs. “It was established in the Spring of 1960 as a “component of the
anti-Castro propaganda campaign. Tt continued in this role until its
termination in 1968. ; .

3. Following the Bay of Pigs and in response to administration
urgings to do something about Castro, CIA established a large Station

in Miami in September 1961 to continue operations against Cuba. The

; operations described below were developed and run by the Miami Station;

many of them were still in the developmental stage at the time of
President Kennedy's assassination.. ; ; ,

4. The Station initiated three major classes of activities:
intelligence ‘collection/espionage,. covert act ion/propaganda, and
infiltration/exfiltration actions. It should be noted that there was”
no clear delineation between these activities, e.g., an exile organi-
zation. primarily engaged in propaganda on the Agency's behalf might

also provide positive intelligence information from interrogation of

' an exile or provide candidates for an infiltration team to perform

sabotage. It should also be noted that infiltration/exfiltration ac-

_ tions were undertaken for a variety of purposes such as espionage,

sabotage and to assist defectors. Aside from intelligence collection,

al] of the remaining activities would constitute forms of covert action.

~2-
SECRET

 
 

 

SECRET

CIA OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA PRIOR TO THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN FF." KENNEDY ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963

.f

 

A, “INTRODUCTION.

1 Agency planning and operations directed at Cuba during the latter
part of 1959, 1960 and early 1961 were almost totally devoted to the
development of the paramilitary operation which culminated in the Bay of
Pigs invasion on 7 April 1961. During this period, major efforts were
devoted to training a paramilitary force, formation of a Cuban exile
organization in Miami to direct opposition activities and to provide
future Cuban leadership and a propaganda campaign designed to rally op-
position to Castro in Cuba and elsewhere in Latin America. .

2. Some of the actions initiated during 1960-61 continued following
the defeat of the Agency supported Cuban brigade. For example, prior to
the break in diplomatic relations between Cuba and the U.S. on 3 January \
1961, CIA maintained a Station in Havana. This Station recruited and —
trained intelligence agents and procured and cached communications
equipment to form a staybehind net to provide intelligence on Cuba
following the break in diplomatic relations. Following the Bay of Pigs
defeat, this net continued to function providing information on Cuba -

via radio communication and Latin American diplomatic pouches. Radio

; : £2, INPDET
SECRET - CL BY 055636

 
 

 

cofN my

le

SECRET

6

B. COVERT ACTION/PROPAGANDA ; .
T. Agency Supported Cuban Exile Organizations:

CIA provided monetary support ‘and guidance td a number of Cuban
exile organizations in the Miami area who disseminated anti-Castro Propa-
ganda. Some of these organizations: came into existence through Cuban
exile initiative, but they became- = largely dependent on CIA to” D carry on.
their activities. a ; i

a. Directorio Magisterial Revolucionario (DMR):

_ An exile teachers organization in which CIA became interested
in early 1967. DMR produced a bulletin (Magisterto Cubano Libre) which
was mailed to 18 Latin American countries, to DMR members and to Press and
radio organizations tn the U.S. Radio Programs directed at Cuba were pre-
pared and broadcast over station WMIE in Miamt. Copies of these programs
were sent to various Latin American countries and were broadcast over 8&8
different stations. The DMR also produced seven TV programs which were
broadcast over Channel 2 in Miami. The theme of DMR Propaganda was the
destruction of the Cuban educational system by Castro. The head of DMR
attended the National Education Association meeting in 1962, gave a talk
at the meeting and was instrumental in having @ resolution. approved con-
demning the Castro regime. By the end-of 1962, the DMR was mai ling out
350,000 booklets and pamphlets a year to various Latin countries and

France.

~3-
SECRET
 

SECRET

6

b. Union Deportiva de Cuba Libre (UDCL):

A sports oriented organization established by CIA in October
1962. Led by a well known Cuban sports figure and a prominent Cubaii
sports weiter. Purpose of UDCL was to expose Cuban abuse of international
sporting events. for political propaganda purposes. UDCL Teaders attended
the IX Central American and Caribbean Games at Kingston, Jamaica ‘in August
1962, disseminated anti-Castro propaganda and were in part responsible for
- the defection of ten Cuban athletes. A similar operation was launched at
the II Ibero-American Games at Madrid in October 1962 with less success.
_ Propaganda was distributed and two defections were induced. Pamphlets
were also distributed at the IV Panamerican Games at Sao Paulo, Brazil in
January 1963; No defections were induced. In 1963, the. uDcL fs. credited
with obtaining a temporary suspension of Cuba: from Olympic competition
and changing the site of the XVI Amateur BasebalT World ‘Championship from
Cuba to another country. . .
c.' Comite DeOrganizaceones Juveniles Cubanas_in_el_Exilio (COUCE):
A youth organization headed by a former Cuban Boy Scout Teader.
CIA began support to this organization in December. 1962. Starting in July
1963, COJCE published a monthly bulletin with a distribution of several .
thousand copies to Latin American and European youth contacts. Purpose of
bulletin was to furnish information on the effect of Castro-Communist

policies on Cuban youth.

~4-
SECRET
