 

woul! not, give any detatla, ine Btated that he would return to

Miami on U8 Co vtomter anid virtually denand ‘fa anger £9 the problem

of tha judges ana lawyere hufors ho Luft.” ad
Judy: - yhOre ue Pic erabicateraspre OC Ming,

 

co Perminent Contact fur AFAGON wap told that Sol. Wendell
Sohnoon, U.S.A,, retires, an Outetandiog man of «ide mi litary
and political experience, had been duniynated ag .uFmanocnt cone
tact for Mik and that Col. Jotingon would aloo Le in frequent
contact with ir. Goodwin, Col, Johrson WiB now in the proecas
of moving to Miami an: contact Lotwoen hia and MIRO would be
established within ten ‘ays to two weoks,

 
 

HIRO expressed satiofaction at thy cealgoation cf lol, Johneon
aS contacts

 

2. The ancoraigne? rezo:tud the above to LAYS LoLlowine Us cone
versation wilh ARAGON and, ab about 1530 16 Sepbuabher, ayaln ascke with
ALAGON, woo was still in the Mes Howard Hotel (Room 562), Laidbecra, to
Qdvino him and SIRO of the following concerning the otatus of tae Judges
snd luwyura, as requested by W/sili/42 ;

a. wo oxpect to work ort dutaile to Provides Ir, HIPG or his
designee, “$5 000 for the judges and lawyura for the sonth
OF Aust 1961 and $5,000 for the month of suptesker 1941,
these amounte in edition to the niontly euns given via
ALABAL, . : 7

 

be Ye had been Proposing to reduce the munbyr of judges and :
lawyern already on the Lilet and it :waa, web ALES reaconsibility
to make the selection of the Judgea and Law ura wis wore to be
paid from the funds te be lace! at nds cAaposal. :

 

The tranottion of eoatroel and payment of the judves and lawyera
from ALAHAU to Asa woald eve to be worked cut s=eothly and
without rancor by #IE0,deanite toe Personal fcalings of AHO
towards ALAEAU, eines it was necessary to avoid infirnting and
recrimtnation which woul: become oven and attract puslte notico,
If clashes lod wo'gutlicity, apport for the fucgea and Lawyers
would have to bu withdrawn, :

Ce

      

 

d. Tho jucges and lawyere group ii expycted to unyaze in positive
activities and all action frograns involvtar thea will have to
be submitted to the acw contact for approval, If cvesitive
Programa are not dovelered, the gudges ant lawyare cannot exe
pect continuing suport. Further, the jud¢ee aad lawyers group
is not a rolivé orsanization and Sone of ita meaters who may
need jobs shoals lock to lid for positions or individually

eoek amp loyacnt.s ‘ :

TB 14 cose % a. aay, ec &4 caps.

ath

 

 
 

i
i
i
a
fi

 

 

/
7
BQ Soptenbor 191

MEMGRANDUM FOR THE HRCURD
sunecr ; “4 Contact with Pr, Ernesto do ARAGON
15 and 16 Soptonber 1961

 

 

 

 

1. Following contact with Dr. MIRO Cardona by Mire
De/wib, and the undersigned at the Sheridan fulvaderc Hotel (Koon G2),
Eoltimore, abcut 1130 to about 1930 15 Septunbor 1961, tho undorsiimed,, on
tho evening of 15 Sentembur, sraica by btulgjzhono on tho followlny voints _
with MIkO'g recregentative, Dr. Ernesto de ALAUGH, who was with AIhG at the
New Howard Hotel (hoon 5025, 1 Leimore. The undsraijmed baged the ‘content

 

. of hia conrereation with Kee Noon guidance provided by “/idi/hs

 
   

“IEG Keguent for g,0,000 for Uso Inside
ae ma cannol ylve «a favorably anower to this reques

at thio ting, even though wo might agres with dt in
principle, because of the following factors, as wa hopo

MIRO will realise

(2) A considurable sun is involved, approval ia necovsary
‘at various Lovels, ana vevurai uilfaruul »,xoups sro tne
volved in any daclalons.

 

 

  

 

(2) Appropriate channals for passing the funds will have
to be worked out.

4Th0'e reply on this point, ag given throuh ANAUUN, was that
we shoalé revisu the amount of funda an wo Sound ne cossary und
arranze the arpropriate channels for trananittal of fundse

fords Solution of the cconomie

fi the jurists an wyere 18 also an involved problem
te ahich no anawer can be given innodiately, An analysia of
the status of the various judges and lawyera, & nusber of whom
were not included in the orizinal group, is boing mace and a
rezert 46 uxpectad during thy week beginning 17 Yoylombare
Gren receipt of this report, we shall te in a position to como
to a decision,

    

Or, HIKO's angwar to this information, ajain dulivered through
ARAGON, wae that he had iosn told by 4. voodwin, in a meeting on
13 September, that a solation had been arrived at concerning the
j:dges and lawyera, AibARTI om -hatically confirmed thie statenont,
but when pressed for detajls by tho unduraigned couldg not, or

 

 
 

See:

“Johnson, but ohoule hold it closely, nob att

de

jo - Or. MIFO and hin entunra; se chould net talk indiserlatnately

And leosaly about dusi;natton of the naw contact, Col, :
unpting oxpediently

to the exile frou. ag a groat-polttical

to rupresont 4t us:
triusph inuicating a mindate for MIKO. E Tie, undersigned asked

Dr. AKAUON whother he and HW had any questions on the foree
going and upon calling Lack to ARAGC wan told that “«TkO had .
only one question, whuther he coul.! expoct §5,000 for tho Judges
and lavyers for August, and tho sams amount tur’ Septanbur, Tho -
unceraigned anawered affirmatively, which satiatied ASAGON and
MO and the conversation ended, The anceralened then advised
be/#iV7l of tho ugshot of the conversations of 16 September.

a
Kt. Sa CHAMBSKLAIN
HH/PO/B

 

 
