1440000

3. <A review of the circumstances surrounding Mr.
Hunt's conversion to Contract Type A employment and
assignment was then undertaken by Messrs. Yale,
and the undersigned. The contract and payroll

 

 

 

files of Mr. Hunt were reviewed for possible indications
of the nature of the operational activity undertaken in
Madrid. A review of travel vouchers indicated that Mr.
Hunt and his family made accountings indicating departure
from Washington, D. C., on 5 August 1965 with an arrival
in Madrid, Spain, on 16 August 1965. The costs of this
travel were charged to the budget of the Western Hemi-
sphere Division, Deputy Directorate for Plans,

Station Support account. A subsequent accounting sum-
marized PCS travel expenses and included a payment for
apartment rental for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 with a
payment in the amount of $125 to Mee for
this purpose. i :

4. It was determined that an allottee bank account
in Mr. Hunt's name had been established at the Riggs
National Bank of Washington. All salary and other non-
operational reimbursements were made to Mr. Hunt through
sterile check to this account. An operational account
was established for Mr. Hunt with the Chase Manhattan
Bank of New York’City. <A review of all payments made to
Mr. Hunt through the Chase bank account through Mr. Hunt's
operational advance subsidiary account, or 1442 account,
had been made. There was no record of any operational
accounts or advances being processed through this channel.
Mr. Yale stated that this fact defined his concern. He
felt that it was inconceivable that Mr. Hunt could have
undertaken operational activity without some transfer of
or accounting for funds. To date, no such records have

been developed. No reference to a project or project

digraph or operational FAN number has been located. Al
expenses connected wi unt identified to date were
charged to the Support. A review made of

 

records has not indicated any "Developmental
and Target of Opportunity (D&TO)" funds or “Other Opera-
tional Activity (O0A)" funds expended by or on behalf of
Mr. Hunt. These two accounts would normally be the source
of operational funding not charged against a specific pro-
ject activity. : :

2

  

sete.

cu

"OT /SENSITIVE
 

@ CT SVE Qe
LA) me ;

 

21 February ‘1924

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Office of Finance Records - E. Howard Hunt

1. On the instruction of Mr. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief
of Operations, PSI, the undersigned made an appointment
gon of 20 February 1974 to interview Mr.
Chief, Certification and Liaison Divi-

 

 

 

sion, Office of Finance, and Mr. of Finance
on the subject of oward Hunt. At the outset of
the interview Mr. advised the undersigned that

instruction had been received from the Director of the
Office of Finance, Mr. Thomas Yale, that discussion on
the subject of Mr. Hunt was to be carried out only with
the Office of the Inspector General. Mr.[ | stated
that he had informed Mr. Yale of the requested interview
and had received this instruction with the suggestion
that the undersigned contact Mr. Yale directly with any
inquiry.

2. Accompanied by Mr. | ‘the undersigned
briefed Mr. Yale on the nature of the request and iden-
tified the "Task Force" effort being undertaken by the
Office of Security in concert with the Offices of the
Inspector General and Legislative Counsel. Mr. Yale
responded that he recognized the legitimacy of the in- -
quiry. Mr. Yale explained that subsequent to initiation
of the complete audit being undertaken by Mr. of
the Audit Staff, the Deputy Director for Management and.
Services, Mr. Haroid L. Brownman, had requested the
Office of Finance to discontinue their investigation of
Mr. Hunt to avoid duplication. Mr. Yale added paren-
thetically that it was the nature of Finance Officers
not to leave a job half done and that an "informal"
inquiry into Mr. Hunt's financial records had neverthe-
less continued at a more subdued pace.

 

 

 

 

 

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 011696

CLOERT /SEUSITIVE
14-0000

 

5. <A review of all of the travel vouchers on:record
for Mr. Hunt during this period also failed to identify
a project. In addition to the PCS and return vouchers,
two other accountings are on record. One accounting
covered a trip by the entire Hunt family to Paris "for
the renewal of visas." A second voucher covered a TDY
trip from Madrid to Washington with return to Madrid
made by Mr. Hunt from 5 January to 8 January 1966. The
voucher states in the space provided for the citation of
the travel order number - "no travel order." The account-
ing was approved and signed by Mr. Thomas Karamessines,
then Deputy Director for Plans. No justification or
statement of purpose for this TDY was given on the account-

ing.

6. Mr. Yale determined that further review of possible
sources or identification of operational funding was in
order. Mr. Yale gave instructions that the entire 1442
advance account of Mr. Hunt be reviewed for other possible
channels of funding outside of the New York Chase account.
After discussion, it was agreed that particular attention
be taken to any items connected with publishing or book
royalties. Mr. Yale noted that the royaity offset waiver
provision ammended to Mr. Hunt's contract was, in his ex-
perience, somewhat unusual.

7. Mr. Yale was informed by the undersigned of the
intention to interview Mr. Edward Ryan, currently Chief,
Division D, who was at the time of Mr. Hunt's Madrid assign-
ment, Deputy. Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division. Mr.
Yale suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviewed.
The undersigned informed Mr. Yale that this had been done
and briefed Mr. Yale on the generally negative results of
the interview. Mr. Yale then recommended that Mr. Sam
Halpern be interviewed. Mr. Yale noted that Mr. Halpern
had been an assistant to Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald when the
latter was Chief, Western Hemisphere Division and had ac-
companied Mr. Fitzgerald when he became Deputy Director for
Plans. Mr. Yale recalled that subsequent to Mr. Fitzgerald's
passing that Mr. Halpern remained on the staff and acted as
an Executive Officer for Mr. Thomas Karamessines. Mr. Yale
stated that from his experience, Mr. Karamessines would
have delegated all the arranging of "details" surrounding
an assignment such as Mr. Hunt's to Mr. Halpern. Mr. Yale
offered the parenthetical observation of his surprise at
what he interpreted to be reticence to date to interveww
Mr. Halpern.

3
SONI T /SENSITIVE
14-0000

fe veut

 

8. The undersigned assured Mr. Yale that he would be
informed of any information identifying any possible project
activity developed in subsequent investigation. Mr. Yale
stated that any information in this area would greatly
facilitate the job of checking computorized financial

records.
Lawrence J. Howe

 

. REMEBER
