13-00000

(the Covert Security Clearance was amended and
approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use.
in providing covert legal support for’ opera-

ytions in the form of a "cut out",*legal advice,

transmission of funds, and other assistance of

a legal nature in connection with DDO projects.:

Since Subject may have been utilized by the DDO,

it is felt that any decision to release infor- :

jmation regarding Morgan should be deferred to /

\the DDO. —_

 

: Cie is noted that while only the afore-_
mentioned subject file exists regarding Morgan,
in his capacity as Robert A. Maheu's personal
attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in
the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files. In 1967
Maheu was interviewed and advised that he had

- briefed Morgan regarding the details of his
involvement in the Agency-sponsored Castro
assassination plots. Morgan's current asso-
ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,
is unknown. Morgan is currently practicing law
in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch
and Morgan. .

c. Joseph Shimon~--No Office of Security
subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,
aka: Joseph Shiman, However, he is mentioned
in the Johnny Roselli file as a personal friend
of Roselli, It is further noted in the Roselli
file that Shimon knew Maheu, but the nature and
extent of their official/social relationship is
unknown. Shimon is described as a former
District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the
D.C. MPD as a result of a conviction involving
wiretapping. activities.

4. To date, no decision has been made as to the type and
form of response to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office
request. Additionally, a formal request, to the Office of
; 7 . SUH

Security has not been received. Office of Security files have

been searched and pertinent information reviewed. Pending a
decision as to what form the response, if any, will take, it
is recommended that the Office of Security files containing
information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily
available’ status and no further action be taken at this time.

CLL A

Curtis R. Rivers
13-00000

spas ap ee cgneceme Bnet sae A wm mate

ed

|
|
|

|
|,

 

oo

 

3. During review of GAIN's Security file, I noted 2 message . ;

regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
2"Willard 'd ANDREWS, xeputable American businessman i in Mexico,"

who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN,: as well as with

a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. IE (Acopy of this memo=

xandum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces .

on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard.

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claim

he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The

Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective.
s_pahoratory 4 in Chicago. .

  
 
  
 
  
   
  

 

.5. The firs time GAIN came to the attention of the Security Se
was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in
Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police
methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;
and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed

Gentral American country.

 

 

 

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being
deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official
(He. had identification as an investigator for the
Mexican Treasury Office.) :

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his

 

caer ty < a: cy
A AY
2 wf hrs

{
|
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury it hei
104-10406-10218

 

_uNrTeD STATES covi SMENT . ;
Memorandun a

TO : Chief, SRS. DATE: 9 October 1967
Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS ,

FROM < M, D. Stevens

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S.
fate 4S

 

' 1, Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo-~ |
: randum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS i
{memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Security
memorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum.
enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago i
| Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADG/PSD forwarded to SRS with
“the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee
“Harvey OSWALD, et al.’ Me

 

2. Subject, itis , obvious, had been a source of information
; ) regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President
; Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee
i ‘held i in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard
! CRILEY (#346 16). He also was the source of information regarding
, the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young }
Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord~ -
‘ing to the Chicago office was “one off ti‘s™SCC@SS (SAS) leads
obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)
jis ) #199499, The documents also indicated .
; “that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated -
_ by Eldon S, GOHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS
| Ghicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County
Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under
: cover assignment which CCHEN inferred involved tapping the tele~ :
: phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other —. i
} political figures... I

2 cen ee gmat am meee

 

   
 

  

S359 1
Excoted Pon asheath:
sovngriias ond
toda

 
     
13-00000

a all

 
   
  

i 1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked
yto respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On |
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
much of the above information on CAIN. ,

8, On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he
had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia
in Chicago; fand he directed that the DCS be contacted for information
as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,
or what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were
in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25
ay 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
‘ Isince 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
een the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Guban
ctivities, procurement of arms, etc,

 
  
 
 
  
   

 
    
 
   
  
  

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there i isa
current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that
there be no further contact with him at this time.

10, Thel September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled [ "Brazen Ek u mapire of Organized Crime," in.v/hich it is
stated that “83m GLANEA ANCANA? Head of the Chicago C Cosa 2 Nostra, i is "still
running things-by—7 ontrol from a hide~out in Mexico « « » Where

ov he poses as Riccardo: 'S \LZETTIO The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
‘erst while chauffeur ‘dnd cour courier, “is more familiar to Chicagoans as
Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently
a private investigator. "

‘SaREAERRA ay
7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS. in September | -
13-00000

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to Septermher
articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst=
while chauffeur and courier of Sam GLIANCANA. The second of these
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,
of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana
area, . :

Wr oS SGE

‘M. D. Stevens
Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

SECRET

 
