74-00000

 

i
t

 

‘

 
  
  
  

ay kbs sect that certain agsoclazes of hers
Caty acme she is ia ooctact ving CIA.
wot ioe @re in direct contact, ay the intervagatics wili reveal,
2a of Pidel and the mess Cuban Goremfont. ext thew is no
ze that thie tavamscios is nou or vill ust be in the bovis of
¢ ScalLigmen at tia tise. it 49 velieeod thet a thorowgh

evabuision ef Subject's sotivatian, ideals, and concern vor the oben people
a3 wall as ker strong belle? in Pidel'se original “History WILL abenive He”
would indicate thet Subject is highly suscepciele to the Quammist proneganda

 

 

: Line; aod, in her present frame cf sind, she should de considered | parson
- whose beliefs and idesle are far to the left end could be. ucksovingly to
‘ber, a stench follower end supporter of Camamim. Eecmase of this, it

is furtuer believed that Subject could be used a3 a tool of the Cocmanists

, Ralph 0. Ses

 

‘che persona Enowledgeenlie’
74-0000

mop OAR
7 Ccteter 1960
Page sevan

2. With reference to her sympathies or baliefs in the theories or
principles of Commuian, {t was established during the interview that
Subject docs not study nor does she meke it. u point to read Comramist
periodicals or publications. She was asked specifically: “Do you knew
and understand che basic theories and principles of Communiaa?“ Subject
angvered that she did sot, and it is believed that this is a truthcul
answer, Subject did ad=it, however, that Castro's famous dissertation
"Ed story Kill Abeolve He” wes besically the ingpireticn for her to go to

- Siva and do what ane is doing todyy. It is, therefore, indicetive that

Subject'a intellectual vain is most sympethetic in this direction. It is ‘

felt that Subject 1s not a menber or ths Communist Party; that ane is not

& Lesbian, in support of this there ia not my indication that she has ever
‘engage’. in honosamual activity; aid that che is not = dope addict nor has
she ever indulged in the use of narcotics.

3s 2 io not velteved that dubject han cominitted any serious undetected
erines other then she has mentioned in the details above; that she is
attempting to deliberately hide any information about her past; that abe

bas ever received ny intelligence training; ond that ehe is sn intelligence agent

. for any foreign government.

DFFERROGATOR'S coMazeTs 3

1. Inaessch as the undersigned hes bean requested by Hr.| of i
ARC to provide guidance and consultation to Kre. Pearson of his staff

during the contacts that hove been made by her in the United States, the .
following coments aro sutaitted for ubatever value they axy be worth.

(lL) 2 48 falt thet cubject will be ccusidered by the Castro
Government a9 an attempt of American penstration into their circles should
ache veturn to Cuba. ‘hia opinion is based on the previous suspicions by
the G2 in Cuba of her activities - the recorded long~iistance telephone
salle in Cuba made to ner and by her between Ler and Esory.

(

2) The utilization of f telegram from her father from New York City
in May or dime 1960 requesting her to come to Hew York when her ‘sther never
lex, Pouca City, Cxleboma. Ia other words this arrenganent was not,
epEre: wrietely beckstepped for any possible questioning o: surveillance by

the Cuban Intelligences.

 
Duy AoaRL
kf tutober 16
Pages Live

teat 23
To. ikve you attested to bide any ct’ ye personal history
fron ret

Zi. Have you deliberately given us any folee inforvation?

Ta. ave you écliverntely given us any false inforentics shoct
your Sife?

13. Bare you reported to anyone in Cuben intelligence about your
contacts with us?

Th. Bare you agvisal any representative of the Cuban Government
ebout your contacts with ust

80. Since age 13, hers you ever angaged in semal activity with
yvouant

Bi. To your inowledge, hare you cumtted any undetected crinss?
a. Have you aver received peyeldetric advice?

83. Idd you ever use narcotics?

3%. Rave you ever bech a dopo addict?

3. During polygraph testing, Subject had thie interrogator utow the
tees to adyiee hin thet she could not anewer this question (01) trutaculy
without first explaining two things. Piret Subject adialtted tim ake sad
&& dom tino in the past, the date sho camot specifically recall, filled
ext forms in the Dopartiexmt of State in which she bad sworn tiat ch lost
hee firsh passport. Gaubject staied that aha did nat lose her first
passport; sho still hes it in hey posesasizsn. She stated that she wacted
to keep 1b for a sorventy and thas when abe vent to Abo Deyartment of Jiste
to report her lose of a passport she had a close friend with ber. Ge said
thet ala felt it would be mest embarraseing whea the bepartment of stuie
representative said will you please fill out those fom confirming the
statesnnt that you lost your passport if ube hed rafused to do a in front
of hor friend. Ghs stated that this ts tha reason why she falsified her

etatexmns .

oranges
“ wlibed,
 

 

Rei BAIL
Lf veto, UX
fags six

y

3). 2b eect @irised tiriy Oe 30.

is grovesly ao Gouerlecion cros 14

fy besview, & copy oT Ber DLA ce

her close friend @d associaie.

thud. AY tits point, 2 . aS Aovattecr uf fact the day thas
Oaolect arcived in hew York Bo tit cucton's print sue mrternd
the United scates ag dime CONS. Suwjerct auezed that a few ders laser abs
inarned to bir amasemert that ROGALCA hed also arrived in hey York at the
were cuscon’e goist eas the attport under the new uf Tiola O53. AUGALDA
told ioject thet the custon'’s tnapectc. imal qaesticued ber ca ts vhetnes
or not she bad @ aivtes sinee stother O69 bai also arrived that saa day.

   
  
 
 
 
  

had asa sud

we 22 ha moro.
3 cf Tisla O23 be
GLU joc) Bas previpigly cere

   

   
 

10. Sudject wns instructed to ustain this birth certificate fraa
ROUALBA izxmdiate upon per revan to lew York aod alao to summit whe
original paswport which she claice sha hea lost to Aust clisabeth as soon

- B88 possible.

lL. Dardeg tle testing, Sihject stopred the toss when oalron tad
with tis qussticn: “Pave you told SCGALDA auythios about yar ooutacts
with us that you should cos have tol4 bev?* Sibject steted that or. bes
deg of depertame foo new York to meet Amt Dlisebrih et the alrport abe.
WAS wisier enotiuns) strain because of the Doctor LUIPIR iueident aad
veemeo of ber father's feelings and tecause,drorthy afer a phone call
fret Auct clizazeth, she was qatetioned bey SUGVUUA by a scatemert 7L
464n'S Im you bed om Aut iicabeth.” Sobiect ome beck at ber tia Pit
Of teuper atetirg "Ch Dammit, you ov I don’t havo aa duct Sligabeta.
Please leer me alone and don't question o3 eny other.” Subject fecla
thet aa & result of this antional indiscretion, she bas indicated to
RGU bey’ & ated of a doubt thes she ia Gmiling wie: aecioan
Intelligence. his is aloo based cu the fact thas in Ame, whoa Subject
was fires in the Usited States, che, EucALGA, and L. MUTE acussgted to
eveinate veo wes trying to interview Gibject. I> was the conaidered
oysuton of Cho three that 44 cust be CIA and that Beuty vas 9 reyrecettative

of CIA.
Oust
L. Ye is the onlinion of the udersigoed that Ra iect hes not and is

not servicg Soviet or Satellite Ictelligrnce crgmrizatiacs; timt she is
nes gerving ioteliiguice crymisations ox Cube; .x-l thas sho bas mot .

, Pevealed ber asavcisticma vith oumers of this Agmucy to wesbers of the :

Cubec Guverteaent cr Intelligence se-viee.

cet :
. : ;
 

vege

yen .

2. Be ject ¥ was Iiterview:d on the Lith and 12th of Uctober in Boston,
Basstetwwetts. Daring he afierucon of Li Uctover 1950, Subiect was .
incervieved during which time the follcwing portinent infornstica was
cbtalned. Subject begnaa by advising the wuleralened that she vas most
concerned about vhat eho felt was @ breach of vecurthy regarding herself
and gave the fcllowing informmtian.

2. Subjwat edvieed that one Diana ALSXANTRIA (I/IRD), 120 East
Teod, Street, Rew York City, Rov York, made contact with her someting

‘during the en4 of September. Subject stated. that Diana had obtained Subsect's

telephone mumer fro the LORENZ fumily and, upon obtaining her taiuphme

" pumber, galled gubjeck, Costact vas mado with Diana by Juoject; and alnes
twat time, they have had several social engagemerte with each other. During.

a@ecociations vith Diana, Subject was advised by Diana that shs had a

those
4 male friend who ves seeing hor frequently that workad for Cis. This mle -

friend, Dick DARINUS (NR/IND), bed told Diuna thet gume CONE wae:a very
questionable peresn in the eyes of CIA and that if Diona shold Save contact
With Jue COBB ake should bo very careful of her. Subgect advised thet
Diesa further statal thet DAPIGLY vas epparently in love with her end thet
am intimate relationship was in progress. DAGISGG vea inviting her, Mana,
on ‘gacenions to hia homa in Cameécticut. Dima further advised that this
rtletionskip tertwotn ahs ani DANT2L3 eal resulted in DASEIS obtaining a
secroterial Job for her with the wolfare orgucisnticn, Eto.

3. Subject stated that unca hearing this dn2armation she was quite
eoncernsd acd reported this iuforastion to her caso offices, “Aumt Zlizabeth.”
Agproxioately two days later, Sab ject sau Dieoa again and sho advised cubJoct
that ehe het received a telephone call from Dick DANIELS accusing her of
Dlebbing too pach because he had received a telephone call fron Hashiogtos
reading the riot act to hin for keying teld Diana about June COx3.

h. As 8 result of this, Subject 1s confirued in bor om mind thst
she is in touch with CIA. Up to this tlas, Subject had only assuned that
it was CIA that was in contact with her. Subject, in essence, stated that
to her wy of thinking this was very poor Gesurity on she part of CIA and
She wae amazed that such an incidéent as tikis could heypen. Farther
information and details regarding thin specific inaldast are subject of
recording and oan be revieved for more details. ° *

5. Subject advised the undersigned of another incident that bas.
cmueed ber rest concern. This dueident involves stelle aGoLoy (m/ THD),

secretary for Icctor L. SHAYPER (a/IND), living ab che farbison Plase Dotel

sa

SECRET

subs
 

 

wee .
nee ad

Calef, Security Support Myriaion Date:
“ ¥red Bacet, [Bf
Acting Cher, Interrogstios xeseorch Divisioa

©0383, Viola June Troy: = bOAZ1

 

Do Not Roe roduea

Subject of this report is & thirty-thres-year-old fesale American

eitizen bora in Ponca City, Cklanoma, in August 1927. Sudject was
previcusly interviewed on 7 Ame 1960 under unssiiafactory cocditions in
thet there vas not sufficient tim to interrogate Subject on reactions to

specific questicas.

 

}
During the interview with Subject on 7 June 1960, aha constantly

supplied vobusinous information regardirg many persovalities in Cabs end.
in the United States, all of whoa were involved in the present Cuber
situation. It was felt vy the interrogator that Subject, because of her
pooition in Cubs, associates, and macnquvers, as veil as ber esotiocal
feelings for the Cuban people and her steted strong belief acd love of
Videl Castro's 26th ef July Progra, would undoubtedly ve a Security riak
if aocther interregation and polygran’ testing could not se afforded.

3. Tt was agreed by all comeerned, after review of the entire
interrogetion of Subject, thet there were zany present and future Security
remifications involving Subject and that es mach investigation and
yesearch as possible would be dons and pleas would be aside for tho

undersigned t) reinterview end interrogate Subject.

Before Subject departed in Jure tO return to Guba, sho wee aiviesd

that the United States Government vould no doubt vant to talk to ker
date ani that aha would be advised as to kev to go about this.
sdvised thst shoul she so0 @ need to return to the United Staten shy
ehculd do so and was given a means of

by JMARC vopresentatives. -

2 contact with the appropriate officials
. on ber return to the United States. On 16 September 1960, Subject made the
éecision to return to the United Srates.
of abyeuce without pay from ber superior, Mr. Juan CROA (HR/IRD), whoa she
gave tim woderstandiing that she ves costing tc the United Hates to aue bar
father axl for a rest. When Subject arrived in Nev York, she vas contacted

She obtained a tyo-month Leave

Arrangezents wore made for Subject to ba interrognied by the

5.
undersigned aud polygrapmed at a covert site in soston, Messachusstts, on

or about 1. October
14-00000

wut he. 6till refuses to bere

’ SORE

mot hoha .
7 Gerober 160
Pag? thoes

in Rew York. Daser I. Arr is a very dear friend of Subject's. Ho ia
epyruxinately 7O yearu of ege. oaibject stated that abe deeply leven .

tor URAPPat and bis wits and pas considered thea ag second parents.
Jkooe Subject's ceyburn to New York in Septebory Betelha GGKGLCY has veen
Subject and advised ber that a had bean Interviewed by representatives of
tha Far in thelr offices located at 69th and Brit Sireet, “ev York City.
JONOLOV vas interriewed once’in February and the second tine sonetine
therenfter., ksatalle, referred to by Subject as Sasha, advion’ Subject inet
the Pol man interviewing ber told her that Qine C023 was « dope addict, a
Communist, and fovalwed in om abortion racket. Subject stated that ¢uring
ber yisit- dn June 1960 she hed attempted to contact Doctor SSAPPOR and

anything 7]
information that Egtelle SCKCLOV has revealed to Subject, Subject nov
imcve the reasons why Doctor SRAPP2 vill have nothing to do with her.
Subjec, do most disturbed and put out ag a result of this. incident and
dneiate that steps be take to rectify the defaraticn of her charncier; or,
at any rete, to confirm in Doctor RIATPER's mind that she is not constdered
by the United states Goverment = person an deocribed by the FRI. 4s a
result of thee tvo incidents, Subject has stated that betore she can agree
te return to Cuba she wante tho records etraightened oct anly to her ovn
setisfaction but to mainly reestablish her reputation with Doctor SHAPPAR
aod also confira in her rmather's ow wind that abo 1a attempting to perform
@ vitel service for the United States Governnent.

6. During the interview, dubject aubialtted voluminous -informmiion ~-
reganiing paxamalities, Fi,p??, ae cs. Taese setters hare been
bh. The iters mentionsd abova

orally reported to Mr.
ax sulmitted because of their carey ruaifications. The other operational

inforsmiion gleaned from Subject vill bo the dubject of @ eoyarute repart

 

. and sppropristely distrizsted.

qT. Subject vaa given polygragh testing begining at 1400 hours ca
12 October 1960. During the polygraph interview tire following questions
vere presented to Qibject, discussed, and then polygraphically presented to
teat 2
he, Is your true uene Viola Ame COR3?,

42. Were you born dn the state of Cklahouat

ore
Vi . i

 
74-00000

aa.

Mere yea born in the south of Auguss?

hg,, Were you born in the year 19277

by,
hs.

ie your father's first nase Jasper?
Do you beldeve in Korld Communist

5a, Do you read Commmist litersture?

‘N6.
a7.
8.

wy.
50.

Would you exppart Commmias in the United States?

Wuld you do enytning for Cammalsm to arrange the domfall
of the United States Govexmmant?

Are you 6 Communist?
Do you believe in the basic theories af Comunient
Toes any Comzamdab in Ciba have control over you?

50a. Did you ever indicets to COLLINS you vorked for Anerican

Intelligence?

fest g2

60.
61.
62.
€3.

Other than with the United States Government, heve you
ever vorkad with any intelligmes orgenizetlon?

Have you ever served a Soviet ov Satellite intelligeccs
aorvice?

Bid you ever recatve intelligence training?

Gther thao vith ua, do you heva any intelligences sonaections
you do not want to tell me about?

Are you an intelligences agent for anyune?
Ave you en intoLligeice agent for enyone in Gubat

Do you imow end understand the basic thearles and principles
of Covenmisar :
