13-00000

Mr. Roland J, Zavada hatte
21 Cottonwood La, - Movde- "RB € dah
‘Pittsford, NY 14534-3407 Preuss tiche alge en
_ . TIAR. 63 preci filg

se incense

 

 
13-00000

EDGE Prat onl OrsGruet.
Zapeupek Fete (gal (6,144)

5 Kepreneome IE SAFETY FruM | I. I: 3 7
Where BactSpeusr LETIEAS

OksenTaaos + (Wen epee PRawt 1
RESO Conescrry , BesE ( Stzny) S2DE a
Fstm ss “uP —ewarn Vzeweels eves
SPRokeT (oss ARE an) Tide les ,

J

AND IMAGE Fegmes BRE AtSo RESD
Car eecri/ . .
Ric 86 eae
Pittsford, NY 14534-3407 . . Preuss ticle -alhe an
. a 7a far 63 Preet. Flug

 
13-00000

l asked him whether there were any reason to normally separate (cut) the punched number applied by
the processing lab off of the tail end of side two of the film and splice it into another part of the film, and he
said “no, not unless there was a lot of fogged area on the developed film between the end of the image
and the punched number."

| discussed with him Jim Milch's e-mail of 6/12/97 regarding “a film in his possession which was

. processed in Rochester.” Rollie explained that his film is a private home movie, not an assassination film.

He sald it is proof that a film processed (developed) in Rochester would have an "R” in the edge print. He
said he would photocopy the edge print and mail it to me so that | can see what the Rochester lab marking
looks like, and then compare this edge print to the edge print on the various films at NARA.

Rollie then discussed potential camera tests using a Bell and Howell camera of the same model as
Abe Zapruder's. He said that further research he has done indicates that the ‘inertial effect" may be
peculiar or unique to Zapruder’s individual camera, and may not occur in other cameras of the same
model. [This has implications for proposed ARRB camera tests.]

Rollie said he would be on vacation from July 10-August 2, inclusive, but would be available after that
for any business we might wish to conduct. END
13-00000

photographic briefing boards, using still photographic prints enlarged from selected individual frames of
the movie. After twice mentioning Rochester as the site where the film was developed, Dave Montague
(in an attempt to specify whether McMahon was referring to R.1.T., or Kodak) asked whether he meant
Kodak, and McMahon emphatically said “| mean Kodak at Rochester." | asked him how firm he was that
this is what the Secret Service agent told him, and he said he was “absolutely certain.”

-REASONS FOR ANALYSIS AT NPIC VICE ANOTHER LOCATION: McMahon said that USSS
agent Bill Smith told him the reason the film had been couriered to NPIC was because NPIC had special,
state-of-the-art enlarging equipment which Kodak did not have at Rochester. McMahon said that after the
analysis of where shots occurred on the film was completed, many frames were selected ("perhaps as
many as 40, but not more than about 40") for reproduction as photographic prints, and that NPIC's special
“10-20-40 enlarger* was used to magnify each desired image frame “40 times its original size for the

‘manufacture of internegatives.* McMahon said that the internegatives were then used for the production

of multiple color prints of each selected frame. He said that the color lab at NPIC where he worked did not
prepare the actual briefing boards, but that he assumed the briefing boards were prepared somewhere
else at NPIC, in some other department.

-in response to clarification questions by Home, McMahon said that at no time was the afnateur movie
copied as a motion picture film ,and that the only photographic work done at NPIC was to make color
prints. He could not remember whether the prints were 5” X 7" format, or 8" X 10" format.

-Home asked whether he was working with the original film or a copy, and McMahon stated with some
certainty that he was “sure we had the original film." Home asked why, and he said that he was sure it
was the original because it was Kodachrome, and because it was a “double 8" movie. Horne asked him to
clarify whether the home movie. was slit or unslit, and McMahon said that he was pretty sure the film was
UNSLIT, because "we had to flip it over to see the image on the other side in the correct orientatiori.". He
said that the movie was placed in an optical printer, in which the selected frames were then magnified to
40 times their original size for the production of intemegatives. He said a “liquid gate" process was used
(on the home movie frames) to produce the internegatives.

-Prior to the production of intemegatives and color prints for briefing boards, he said he recalled an
analysis “to determine where the 3 shots hit." He said he would not share the results of the analysis with
us on the telephone. The film was projected as a motion picture 4 or 5 times duting the analysis phase,

for Purposes of ‘determining “where the 3 shots hit"

 

At this point Home informed Mr. ‘McMahon that ClA's HRG had d deposited a surviving briefing board
and the original working notes in the JFK Collection in 1993 for access by the public, and that they were
not classified. Montague promised to send McMahon an information package explaining the JFK Act and
the Review Board's mandate, and Horne and Montague asked Mr. McMahon is he would be willing to
submit to a formal, in-depth, recorded interview at Archives !I with the briefing board and the working
notes available to him during the interview. He agreed.

-McMahon explained that the working notes were "prepared jointly by the 3 of us working on the
project that night.” END
13-00000

CALL REPORT: PUBLIC

Document's Author: Douglas Home/ARRB Date Created: 06/17/97

The Players .
Who called whom? Douglas Horne called Roland ("Rollie") Zavada of Witnesses/Consultants

Dd.
Date: 08/16/97
Subject: Doug Horne Called Rollie Zavada

Summary of the Cail:

As requested by Jeremy Gunn, | called Rollie Zavada to pursue questions the ARRB staff has about
the developing and processing of 8 mm film; Jim Milch had given me permission to contact Rollie directly
on an informal basis.

l asked Rollie whether copies of the original Zapruder film could have been properly exposed on a’

‘contact printer using Kodachrome 1! daylight film, vice Kodachrome IIA (designed for a tungsten light

source). He said the answer was yes, but that the exposure would be extremely slow, because more
exposure time would be needed for the Kodachrome II (daylight) film than for the Tungsten film. He

-elaborated by saying that with Kodachrome II film in the contact printer vice Kodachrome IIA, that the

required exposure per frame might be one fourth of a second per frame, vice one one-hundredth of a
second per frame with Kodachrome IIA; he said that the contact printer would have to be operated much
slower with Kodachrome II film than with Kodachrome IIA. [Background: the 11/22/63 affidavits executed
by Zapruder with the Jamieson and Kodak film lab people cite Kodachrome II film as the medium used for
copying the original assassination movie, not Kodachrome IIA; however, the edge print on the 2 Secret
Service copies at NARA reads "Kodachrome IIA."}

After | informed Rollie of the apparent discrepancy between the affidavits and the two Secret Service
copies, he said that to him there was not necessarily any discrepancy. He said that the “product type"
was Kodachrome I], whether the film was Il (daylight) or IIA (tungsten light source), and that the
designation ilA vice ti simply indicates a variation in color balance, but not a change in product type. He
said that we should not necessarily interpret the apparent discrepancy between the affidavits and the edge
print on the Secret Service copies at NARA as important, because a “film person" would quite possibly
describe only product type, and not address color balance, in ordinary conversation. ©

He elaborated that a reading lamp is 2800 degrees Kelvin; a contact printer light source is 3200
degrees Kelvin; and sunlight is about 5000 degrees Kelvin.

I next asked him questions about how Kodak labs routinely punched numbers into double 8 mm film
following processing (developing). He said the following: -

-the unique, punched numbers would routinely be punched into the tail end of side two of the double 8
mm movie film following developing;

-one reason for this is because the emulsion number (a 7 digit punched number) was always punched
into the head end of side one at the factory.

l asked him where physical splices might normally appear in a normally processed film coming out of
a Kodak lab. His answers follow:

-there should normally be 3 splices, as follows:

-one between the white leader and the beginning of the film (so that the film could be threaded into the
projector); one in the middle marrying side one and side two after slitting; and one at the tail end, if leader
was added to the tail of the film.
a

 

 

An

veal Use ONLY _

20 May 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Richard Sullins . : _ (Request #F 76-299)
Coordination on FBI Release to

1, There are a series of memoranda on Zapruder's
film reflecting Time, Inc. loaned us a copy (return not
reflected), and CIA made three additional copies. Film
was for DDO/Services/SOG +- not for training of CIA
employees -~ but for VIPs.

2. Documents were shown to Rockefeller Commission
because of request from Paul Hoch (see Hoch/Warren Com-
mission file), and are in the denied Oswald documents package.

. E. Mendoza
Chief, CI/PA

Distribution:
l - File #F 76-299 -
1 - File: Hoch, P.
1 ~ Chrono

1 - Warren Commission
1 - C1/R&A (Mr. Bradley)

| ABMS BSE AME
104-10336-10024

 

ir

~~ o7* vA

* ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

To: ee N: b ope oe

FROM: arry Harrelson one€
DATE: 04/03/97 03:04:45 PM
SUBJECT: [ SRe: JFK Assassination inquiry; Lockheed

 

Thanks for the quick response on Lockheed. ! passed the information to the ARRB staff; they will keep us informed. The fax
of pages from Rich's book is on its way.

What do you know of NPIC records? In December (?) 1963, NPIC was ask to analyze the Zapruder film of the Kennedy
assassination. In May 1975, the Agency told the Reckefeller Commission that the Secret Service requested the analysis, was present
during the test, and teok the film. The ARRB staff has found in the sequestered collection what they believe is evidence that the
Agency made three additional copies. Their question: who directed the copying of the film and what happen to the copies? Do you know
who has NPIC's 1963 records or how to go about searching this topic?

ce: a: DST, Bonnie Hunter

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

 

ot ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY 4 \e
CTK AR 2

6 May 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
fount ONLY

FROM: Becky L. Rant @ DA PERIL SE

SUBJECT: ARRB Special Request - Zapruder Film

REFERENCE:

Barry: HRM's response follows to your request for the address of "Holmer.McMann". This sounds like the individual you
described--spalling different. As stated, McMahon resigned in 1970 and the Agency has no current address or record of whether or not
he is still alive. if you want us to pull the file to determine his address while he was an employee, let me now. That info, of course, is 28
years old. Becky

TO: Becky L. Rant

FROM:

OFFICE: HAMIMS/INEO COORDINATOR
DATE: 05/05/97 04:41:06 PM

SUBJECT: | }Re: ARRB Request
Becky -

Ihave located information on a former employee named Homer Albert McMahon, DOB: & Jani 928/who {first} EOD'd 22 Sept 1952 and

resigned on 20 March 1953 (GS-03) - his title was photographer. He reEOD'd on 30 Oct 1960 and resigned on 11 Sept 1970 - {GS-11} -
his title was photographer and he was assigned te NPIC. HRM would have no address listing for this individual. Mr. McMahon's
retired official personnel file is at Record Center.

Please advise if | may be of further assistance.
Jeanne Moke: G& F GO x US a) [7 RO 1) eae Wo (@ ae

  

ce: Frieda P. Omasta

Sent on § May 1997 at 04:41:06 PM CIANRE sf / uf #2?
GuTERHIAL USE. OHLY
ce: Frieda P. Omasta @ DA
DST

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

  

CALL oh PUBLIC
ed

x

Decument's Author: Douglas Home/ARRB = Date Created: 06/12/97

The Players 00
Who called whom? Dave Montague and Douglas Horne called Homer A. McMahon of
Witnesses/Consultants

Date: 06/12/97

Subject: Dave Montague and Douglas Horne Called Homer A. McMahon (Modified on June
13, 1997) :
_ Summary of the Call:

[See Contact Profile for details on how this individual was located.}

Dave Montague located Mr. McMahon and initiated telephonic contact on June 9, 1997; | was invited
to participate in the interview as the staff member most interested in, and most familiar with, the NPIC
working notes of their analysis of the Zapruder film.

The following is a summary of the independent recollections of Mr. McMahon made during ARRB's
cursory, initial assessment interview. Comments are not verbatim uniess in quotations:

-He was the Head of NPIC's color lab in 1963. At that time NPIC was no longer in NW Washington
above Steuart Motors (where it was during the Cuban Missile Crisis), but had relocated to BLDG 213 in
the Washington Navy Yard, following a quick 90-day renovation of a warehouse with no windows directed
by Robert Kennedy. McMahon was careful to clarify that he was an employee of NPIC i in 1963, not the
CIA, and that the CIA only “paid his salary.*

-McMahon did recall the Zapruder film analysis in some detail, and confirmed ARRB's understanding
that the analysis (of which frames in which shots struck occupants of the limousine) was performed at the :
request of the Secret Service. He recafled that a Secret Service agent named "Bill Smith" personally
brought the film over to NPIC, and that the personnel involved in the analysis were himself (McMahon),

Bill Smith of the USSS, and a third person whose name McMahon would not reveal to us during the =~
interview “because he is still current."

-TIMING: McMahon thought that the analysis had occurred only "1 or 2 days" after the assassination;
he also recalled that there was a great sense of urgency regarding the desired product, and that he had to
“work ail night long" to complete thé required work (described below). At one point he said he thought he
had gone into work about 1 A.M. to commence the analysis; later he corrected himself and said that
perhaps it was more like 8 P.M., but that in any case he was sure that the work occurred after normal
working hours; required him to retum to work, and that the analysis went on all night long.

-McMahon never used the name Zapruder film during the interview; he repeatedly referred to the film
in question as an "amateur movie" of the assassination brought to NPIC by the Secret Service.

-PROVENANCE OF THE FILM: McMahon stated that Secret Service agent Bill Smith claimed he had
personally picked up the film from the amateur who had exposed it, had flown it to Rochester for
developing, and had then couriered it to Washington, DC to NPIC for analysis and for the creation of
