CHrmnan
At| Cheveryd; Lands ; .
“Qa 17 Mey 1961, a live eddress wad sateblished for Gladys >.

, DANBRUWE at [” - a, through the
cooparntion of ( ya a a
that address. : re an : an

  

 

 

 

 

st fs)
a the same date, Mrs. her daugite
panied ese a were briefed to effeat that thay o
exy cables;

Tn the ovont exy inquiries vara recelved concerning Mra. DANBRUNE,* “|
they were to advise that Fre. RUGAUNT wes residing with them but. -
that she was mot available at the muxzat. They were to determine —

wae was Calling anf the purpose of the call.

 

       

imeadtately.

She came individuals vers further briefed, in gensral, as to
why Tire. DANBRUNE was ocuyposedly residing vith them and vhy she vas
nev enel Pen eden Fapaaeg fora of ¢ommmication. They vere informed that Mrs.
—™ was the m av of Bustade H. DANBHUP, who was being held
& prisoner by a foreign governmsnt. The mother has sent a cable
her son asking how he is, vbether he needa anything, tnquiring
ts amything ehe ean do for him, anf asking him to please a
cozmunicate with her. Ske is mow avaiting and expecting sone form
of reply from hin. .

 

 

nobify the Poat Offices that Mrs.
TARE? res at his end any mail received for her.

 

On 22 Bay 1961, Dr. 2g eain contacted end he advised
Guat he hed persenally the [estaintresa at the Post
Osfice revarding delivery of Mea, MITUNT'g mai] aad roquezted

 
 

[tod-totto-togg] . _ a

  
    
      
  
    
    

FILE NO. eke O67 DATE 230

    

“ts

SYNOPSIS

t

 

 

_Live eddress established (iie
Maryland, on 17 May 19317 NOUSATOIZCF tana

uexbors of his fently vere trtered. House» . .
holder notified local Post Office that SUBe.

JECT vas residing with hig and also red voted lecal «i: |
Post Office t5 astity] dees Cilice. Yusteea ©

Union telegran for onl’ Fay 1561 for Bludys G. Loe
DARBRUIP. ase ogee : : eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 

1 aera eet tener ape eonpe

REPORT NO.

 
Fase
ve

géa 067

1@
hor, in tamm, to notify tha Peat Office,

 

 

 

Br. [ia a woll-know He mintained
an office at or & moder of ycara until he
wilitery service. He served in the Army ea os

 

 

 

 

snd woon his release, as a ‘dentenantColonel.ba reson :
ob th an office at foe

 

 

 

and currently at B
ie a Mary’ -
tend College Nigh

 

. ob :
Daily contact veg maintained with Dr.(— "Jon 22, 23 and
£h May 1961. As of the latter date, no ocrzamication had as yet
boon received for Mrs. DAIARUNT. ee

On 18 Vey 1961, a Western Union Telegrnm vas sent to Eustace
> DAESRUYE, Reclusorio Nacional, Nusva Gerona, Isla de Pinos, Cuba.
A copy of this telegram is attached as Exhibit #1. ;

A

3
Exhibit $1 (Western Union Telegram dated 18 ley 1961)

 

-2.

 
