 

 

([toetortsozm] 2)

“ x 7 oe -
RNR re (G Dee (+ G2 on SUAS al ene va footed 1

Lo. Jane wi Cadecctny SOUWGF RETURN TO CIA

° a naar aan Background Use Only

Subjeét advised that Aline’ MOSBY was a newepaperman in SCHAPIRO' #0 Not Reproduce |
office. MULBY, durin: the vast year, rad been in the hospital on several
occasions, and one dicn't see too met of her, Subjeot also acvised that {
MOSBY stuck mostly to the foreign circuit rather than the Enbassy cirouit.
Subject stated that one of the reasons HOSBY was in the hospital, on ong
occasion, was the fact, that she had an abortion, according to gossip.

/ Subject stated that another nowepaperwonen in Moscow was_Priscilia |
JOHNSON. Subject advised that JOHNSON had the reputation of being a fairly
Foot reporter and one whon the Soviets kept on a month to month visa basia,
Subject indicated that it was highly-possible the Sovieta had attempted to j
reerult JOHNSON, as she spent a lot of time with Soviet nationale. a i §

subject. was queried as to whether he had ever made an unauthorized :
disclosure of clasaified information in the’ Soviet Union, to which he re- “ A
plied that he had not disclosed classified information as sus!
that _his cover, which he had wed for the period in between
issignmente, was that he was a

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject stated that he
had iniicatad to individuals, when questioned, that he had done economic
research aml enalysis in tha_5 dAhat he had done this ever : }
aince he nad first become a’ ap Oye. Subject stated that,

_ amonp others, he had discuss TCHINS, his counterpart in

i the (British tnbaaeye) oe ocfoy :

 

    
 
 
 

Subject was asked for his itinerary on his roturn trip to the United ;
States and who authorized the trip. Subject stated that he had long planned *
te come home via the Far East, and it was a well publicized plan, lie stated '
thet when ho left. Moscow, he stayed over in Delhi for a week to soa if there ‘
warc any objections fron Headquarters as to hie itinerary, He stated that !
when he resel ved no instrietions to the contrary, he returned to the United. ;
Stules via lis previously announced plane and the differences in fares being |
borne br him. ee

af

Subject departed Nogcow 1 September 1960 (1100 A,li.)s want to Tashkent

wd then to velhi vhere he spent one weeks Bankok, 4 daya; Saigon, 6 dayoy

jlone You, % cayss Tokyo, 5 days; Hawaii, 5 dayss San Francisco, 5 days;
Lor anvelue, ? days; Los Veras, 2 days; Denver, 10. days arrived Washington
2h cteber 1660. Oe

12

 
