aww -
Wk ee

13-00000

-; TOP SECRET
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

name of the agency but indirectly described it as the investigative agency
which conducts intelligence-type investigations cutside the United States.

os .- In conclusion, Mr. Morgan reiterated that he: would immediately ~
contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation if he discovered ahy way to _
reveal the full. details of this matter. .

In connection with the above it may be of interest to note that
‘during 1961, an investigation was conducted concerning a violation of
the Unauthorized Publication or Use of Communications Statute on the part —
of Arthur James-Balletti, who had been arrested by local authorities in
Las Vegas, Nevada, on a wire tapping charge. During the course of the.
. ‘Balletti investigation it was ascertained that Robert A:“Maheu, a private
” detective, was ‘involved./ Mi Maheu claimed he placed wire ‘taps in behalf oe
“of CIA's efforts to obtain intelligence information in Cuba through the - \
_fhoodlum element, including Sam’*Giancana. Maheu said he was placed “j
'; contact with Giafhcana in connection with these intelligence activities
f { through John n Roselli, a Los Angeles hoodlum. =

  

, —— A representative of the CIA. stated he personally contacted Maheu
a} during the Fall of 1960 for the purpose of using Maheu as a "cutout" in

| contacts with Sam Giancana in connection with CIA's clandestine efforts |

{

against Castro. . Rol bee: TE.

Speman

 

On May 9, 1962, former Attorney General | Kennedy advised that
/ a few days prior thereto he had been advised by CIA that Robert A. Maheu

' had been hired by CIA to approach Sam Giancana with a proposition of paying}

$150, 000 to hire some gunmen to go into Cuba and kill Castro. He further --
stated CIA admitted having assisted Maheu in making the "bugging" installa-.

’ tion in Las Vegas (referred to above) which uncovered this clandestine
operation and for this reason CIA could not afford to have any action taken -
against Giancana or Maheu. Mr. Kennedy stated that upon learning CIA had
not cleared its action in hiring Maheu and Giancana with the Department of
Justice he issued orders that CIA should never again take such steps without

. first checking with the Department of Justice. . i
; ; , oo . a
Laer ; -~4- ;

hee

TOP SECRET
13-00000

TOP SECRET
i

of
ASS ASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN

FITZGERALD KENNEDY)

He related that when he fir-t heard the story from his clients
‘he did not believe it, but conducted enough inquiry to.satisfy himself _
that his clients had some basis. in fact for their position and he felt they
were telling the truth. He pointed out -he represented substantial citigens;
people who loved their country and had a high regard for the then President,

- If their story came out now, they would be damaged by the resultant’. :
publicity, and some prosecutor of the same type as District Attorney
Garrison of New Orleans could conceivably attempt to initiate prosecution
against them. At this point he noted that the charge against them might - ;
well be conspiracy to kill, which is a crime, and in. 1 the case OF his clients _

.. the Statute of Limitations "has not run. ae uo

 

 

 

   

In explaining this remark he pointed out that if! he were a wo
Government investigator assigned to unravel. all facets: of the assassination’
of President Kennedy, he would first concern himself with reading the . vet
newspaper articles dealing. with the topic. of.a Castro plot....He'said ‘he would”
examine the Castro plot to.determine precisely. what. bearing it had.on the :
assassination of the President. He indicated the newspaper articles had
considerable merit and were. on the right track in regard to. the theory of.
. “the a assassination. . CA nS .
; OBR Clee ple:

. : - Without making any factual: representations, and. ‘continuin oe
to theorize, he went on to relate that. his clients, whom he again c characterized

“as respectable citizens, were called upon by a Governmental. agency to :

. assist in a project which was said to have. the highest.Governmental alo ve
approval. The project had as its purpose the assassination of “Fidel Cast astro,
_Premier of Cuba. Elaborate plans involving many people were made. < _

- -These plans included the infiltration of the Cuban Government andthe «=~
' placing of informants in key posts within Cuba. The projéct almost reached
fruition when Castro became aware of it and arrested a number of suspects.
; By pressuring captured suspects he was able to learn the full details. ~
mo of the plot against him and decided "if that was the way President Kennedy
: wanted it, he too could engage in the same tactics." Castro thereafter
employed teams of individuals who were dispatched to the United States for
' the purpose of assassinating President Kennedy. Mr. Morgan further

 

   

 

= 2-
TOP SECRET

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

TOP SECRET

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

oak,
explained that his cliente (here noting that he, Morgan, was employed.
by more than one of those involved) obtained information concerning «
Castro's dispatch of these assassins from "feed back" furnished by
sources close to Castro. Continuing, he said‘his clients were aware 6f
the identity of some of the individuals who came to the United States for
this purpose and he understood that two such individuals: were now in
the State of New Jersey. co

. Mr. Morgan further noted that one of the clients he represented .

was a high type individual of the Catholic faith. Morgan said he queried
him as to why a person with his high ethical standard had ever become
involved in such a project as the assassination of Fidel Castro. The ~
client indicated that his conscience bothered him; however, the project

"Was so ‘highly patriotically. motivated that this, in his mind, over- .

rode personal ethical.or moral considerations.. -He further. ‘described
how one client, when hearing the statement that Lee Harvey Oswald was _.

: the sole assassin of President Kennedy, laughs \ with tears in his S eyes”
and. shakes his head. in apparent disagreement. © moos

cis Mr: Morgan said if he- were free of the: attorney-client privilege ae
to furnish full details,. the information that he would be able to supply - :

would not directly identify the alleged conspirators to kill President ©

° Kennedy. However, because of the project to Kill Fidel Castro,- "those.
- participating in the project whom he represents developed through. feed .

back information that would identify Fidel Castro's counter-assassins in

. this country, who could very well be considered suspects in such a a
’ conspiracy. Morgan pointed out that from the information available to = ~~

him from his clients he could not declare or conclude that Lee Harvey ©

. Oswald could not have committed this assassination alone.

Mr. Morgan pointed out that it was inconceivable to him that
an agency of the Government which engages in the type of operations
which he has described has not come forth to make this most important
data available to the Warren Commission. He declined to identify the

-3- 5
TOP SECRET
13-00000

ek he EK RAD QRS AGININAVEESIN E
Memorandum . .

0 : REC
TO : Mr. DeLoach*S , | pate: March’ 22, 1967

- Mr. DeLoach -
- Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Malley -
Mr, Shroder

FROM : A, Rosen

; 1

: 1

<> 1

Ce ood

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF. PRESIDENT 1 Mr. Raupach —
foe JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY. 1 Sir » Sullivan.”

“(4 ‘NOVEMBER 22, 1963 . 1b
5 DALLAS, TEXAS - hitae™ eo

The attached. sets forth the results of an‘ an interview! ., /-
with Edward P, Morgan ( (former | Bureau Inspector) on 3/20/67. Ae

i ran nawer Rae ay et -

  

By way of background, during February, 1967, ‘James Je
Rowley, U, S.. Secret Service, advised that Drew Pearson, con-
tacted Chief Justice Warren concerning information in’ possessior SR
of Edward P, Morgan, The Chief Justice refused to see Morgan;j\"
however, it was. determined Morgan alleged that. former Attorney. ...-.
General Robert F. Kennedy organized a group to go to Cuba to
_ kill Castro. All of this group were killed or imprisoned -.
except one person. who escaped, .and ‘subsequently, after. Castro.
“learning ofthe plot,* decided to utilize the samé™ “procedure | io
KILI President Kennedy and that he hired’ Oswald to- do the job :
This. information allegedly came from a client of Morgan's,
Secret Service made an appointment . to talk to- “Morgan ;. however,
he never. ‘showed up. : ; : .

    
 

 
    

   

va “on. 3/17/67, Mr, Watson at: the ‘White House: advised. ‘that.
\President Johnson desired the FBI to interview Morgan. concern-
. { any. knowlédge he. might . have had: concerning. ‘the., assassination:-
; jot. President Kennedy. ; Dead Se

 

aps: -

: Morgan was interviewed on 1 3/20/67 by "Washington } Field ~~
office Agents, © Due to attorney~client relationship, Morgan. >. .
would not identify the persons who furnished him information °
concerning the assassination. He stated*his clients, while not’
directly involved in the assassination, had knowledge of the _ _
Mplot. Morgan alleges his clients were used by a Government ot
‘Agency (obviously Central Intelligence Agency, CIA) to: plot _
the assassination of Fidel Castro, and that Castro learned of ,
the plot, and thereafter, dispatched teams of assassins to the
U. S. for the purpose of .assassinating President Kennedy. He
said his clients were aware of the identity of some of these
jindividuals, and he understood that two such individuals. were
in the State of New Jersey. REC4R. & 2 "7

 

  

 

Ban Mt ees — Lf fies
rameeses tek 2 Ex dT9 won, Stone Dey ; 4 .
qT A {ao . MI a
=) i Appplorures ee ge 2-47 a me Oe Pera

ee ns WR omen eee ser

’ : . fee . . . Ree
 

404-10419-10334

AT

 

 

 

   

 

  
  

me Uluect, A gon.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe as :

ap — 1

— — — a

oo

crea
~ ~~

oo —
13-00000

Memorandum Rosen to DeLoach .
RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JFK

Morgan also stated that one of the clients he repre-
sented was a high type individual of the Catholic faith, When
he queried this individual as to why he became involved in
such a project as the assassination of Castro, his client
indicated the project was so highly patriotically motivated .
that this overrode personal ethical or moral considerations,

During 1961, we conducted an investigation of: a
violation of Unauthorized Publication or Use of Communication.
Statute on the part of Arthur James Balletti, arrested in :
Las Vegas, Nevada, by local authorities on.a wire tapping .
charge, Our investigation determined this involved Robert A. .
'Maheu,* private detective, that coverage was: ‘instituted in
behalf of CIA's efforts to obtain Cuban intelligence data
through hoodlum element. ve -

. We. checked. with CIA. and learned: cra. was. utilizing -
Maheu as an intermediary with Sam Giancana, relative to CIA's ~
“dirty business" anti-Castro activities, - On. 5/22/61 we fur-
nished the then Attorney General. Kennedy 2 ‘memorandun containing —
the rundown of CIA's. involvement of. this which involved Maheu,

ae _ : ‘ on “579762 ‘Kennedy.

, sovisea-he “Wad isstied“orders that Cia’ should never undertake... -
such steps again. without first ehecking: with the Department of
Justice.

   
 
   
  
  

 

      

 

his dnformation. is briefly ‘set forth ‘in the. enclosure af
as it” ‘appears to relate to information ‘in Morgan's posSéssion. © mee
{Since CIA furnished information on a strictly highly “cénfiderntial ~'
"need=to-know" basis and requested that it be handled on a most = -:} |
|réstrictive basis, this is: being: ‘set’ ‘forth in the conimunica tions” -
attached, . ; ; . . . Site

  

“Attached ‘for approval is. a letter ‘to. Mrs Stegall. at.
- the White House, the Attorney General, and James J. Rowley, ;
U. S. Secret Service, enclosing a memorandum setting forth the |
information furnished by Morgan, and information received from
CIA. The enclosures to these communications are classified

' Top Secret,

*former mn uy

 

 
13-0000.

"TOP SECRET

March 21, 1967

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY :
NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS, TEXAS.

On the evening. of March 20, 1967, Attorney Edward Morgan, -

+ 300 Farragut Building, Washington, Ds C., furnished the. following ” an

information. relating to the assassination’ of President John F. Kennedy. :

He ‘advised that while this covered a wide range or field, it -
probably arose as.the result of comments he made during conversations .

..in which he suggested Lee Harvey Oswald was.not the only person...

involved in the crime. He stated that he did have information: pertaining es
to the assassination which he considered pertinent and relevant. : oe

"said it was necessary for him, in his capacity of. attorney, ‘to nvolte the ee “

_attorney-client privilege, since the information in his possession was .

'. derived as a result of that relationship. . He added that it was. still”

’. possible for his clients to be prosecuted.” He pointed out that he was not
stating or. implying his clients were either directly or indirectly involved

. in the death of President Kennedy.or could be prosecuted in this megane.
-: However, they definitely face possible prosecution for a.crime not.
..,, related to. the assassination of Kennedy... Due to their participation: in- Oates
_. this crime, . his clients learned of information pertaining to the President's.
_assassination. ‘Mr. Morgan. said he represented these clients on this” oo
.. specific matter. He-did not ‘elaborate -on when they. sought his: legal counsel. —

_ and he indicated he could. not fulfill his responsibility and identify them, .. .
He said he gave considerable thought to finding some way to make. this
- information available to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, - ‘put as yet - a
. had not:come.up with a solution. He considered a possible waiver from:

-” . hig clients but decided against. this because the type of protection they cs
- needed: was for some competent authority to grant them compiete immunity, _

not only from prosecution but from the publicity that would surely follow.

'” If in the future it becomes possible to overcome all legal obstacles, he will

’ immediately make this information available to the Government and, more
particularly, the Federal Bureau of Investigation. -

>

- TOP SECRET

 

 
