 

 

does need an orgenizational secretary behind ‘him, ‘Nevertheless, she lamented the
Fect that many people from the old PACS were frightened away after the French
banned it (afraid of losing passports or being tossed out)» and not everyone had
joined Bourdet's buefit.

7. Anti-Vietnem Meetings: :

On 24 June, a group collected at Claude Bourdet'’s home to use his
addvess file to send out invitations to the 4 July meeting. Bourdet's address
file comprises approximately 1,500 names and addresses; Bourdet commented that he
hed a separate file for French. commmnist party members, Working at the meeting
were Susan George, Dean Savage, Relph Fischer and Elizabeth LNU [Adler?]. Fischer
Sscege is a physics teacher at & Jr. College in Brooklyn; visiting Paris. Savage
is married to a Yugo’gav girl; he writes for the Guardian, about 25 years old,
clean shaven, bright but cold, On others, see above,

On 3 July, another group collected to work up posters for the °
neetings Involved then were: Cox, Dubinsky, Elizabeth LNU, Susan George, Jolas,
a deserter, a resister and 2 girls. No names for the latter four. PETUNIA
picked up the info that the deserter wes from Vietnam, he held a factory job,
his father is a good friend of Westmoveland's. .

: On 4 July, the meeting took place: it altexnated speakers and
texts: one hour, someone read the names of American war deads second hour,
someone read from texts provided by the Vietnamese. On the latter point, there
was 2 last minute change of tactics by the Viets. The original idea had been
@ political wake for the American dead and for these in Vietnamese villages |
bombed by the Americans. Thus: the names of the war dead and the names of
bombed villages would be read out. At the last moment, the Viets told Susan
George that the names of bombed villeges had nou. "political significance", and

. dustead they'd rather the meeting read aloud from material marked in red by

. ‘the Viets. George wint along with the idea, though Jolas among others didn't
like it since it altered the purpose and impact of the meeting. Nonetheless,
the Viet altezation was accepted. Very few people attended the 4 July meeting;
PETUNIA wasn't impressed at all. Everyone signed two books open in the back
of the room: one called for an end te the war; a second was a péedge of support
to the Viets. Evergone signed, and the Viets took this book back with them.
Three Viets appeared during the day, sat quietly in the back of the room and
said little to anyone other than themselves, and left not long after they'd
arrived. One of the three returned that. evening to collect the signature books ©
After the meeting was over at & midnight, ¢ everyone | went their separate Wayse

8. Julia Herve-|

: Anecdote Grom Dubinsky. “Dubtasky said he ‘first wetslSEEe
: Chana (where Dubinsky was for a while doing soclal work), While there he * leo
met’ someone else he described as, at the time, his best friend. Later he heard
fxom WsightéHerve that his friend had been the one who killed Richard Wright.
| Dubinsky did not mention the name, but said the episode is described in the
bdokraphy on Weight. He at first refused to believe Julia Herva'’s assertion
‘but later became convinced of it. His friend never denied the guilt, and
did admit to being a CIA agent. Wright was killed by the CIA because he had ©
just finished a manuscript” on the use of Amevican blacks abroad by the
| governments L .

90 “Others °
Qe From his gizifeiend, PETUNIA learned ‘that Rene Mayer has
"disappeared"; he has apparentky left France and no one kmows where he si.
be The Lancaster family whan PETUNIA met last time is now in Brazil.
Ge, Msked me to check on Barrio — nobody answers at their phone number.
d, raised the problem of his hernia and draft status <= see cable.
e,. schedule agreed to: he'll be back on or about the lst and will
let me know via postcard (innocuous and wish you were here variety, scribbled -
signature) what date he'll be back, Site and time of meeting arranged.
; ; £.. Said he was about out of money; agreed to get together very .
briefly the following day so I could giva him some money.

Paul. K, CHALEMSKY
14-00000

 

‘ having got $100 from Sartre, some money from de Beauvoir (no figure mentioned) and
1500 frs from Ratherine Depeuwa [movie actress]. Cox also gets support from Resist

‘minded deserters work in Frence to save money to buy false documentation and passage

anecdotes of life among the deserters: one sends letters to Mao Tse-tung informing

 

CONTACT REPORT: Cte be
PARTICIPANTS: PETUNIA; . CHALEMSKY a
PLACE & TIME a “Metro Dupleix; 8 ely L445; Cafe Patavia, 1445-1730

NEXT MEETING .: Cafe Batavia, 1730, 9 suly ; oo * ker UnoHED

le Contact established, eventho PETUNIA was standing on the wrong side of the :
metro station and get his part of the recogition phrases wrong. Explained that he.
had bean busy on the 3rd and thought it better to stay where he was than to leave
to meet CHALEMSKY, Had prepared notes on his contacts (had had initial difficulty
in finding anyone, finally called Susan George and get reintroduced into the circle).

   
  
 
   
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
    
  
    
  
 
    
   
   
    
   

2. Lavxy COX: Cox runs -a-heng-out in Pantin for deserters, SNS activists,
resisters aia casuals passing through Pazis® address is 3, r. elle Jasserand ;
a Pantin [Paris suburb -~ this address figured in an UNDERBID report on the ‘
exrest of some deserters for possession of drugs]. Did not know how long this :
house has been in operation; rent is 1200 frs/mo [$240,]. Cox spends a lot of
time making the coatributions circuit to raise money to pay for the house == mentioned

in the States and is now negotiating with Resist to get them to pick.up the monthly
rent as a form of support. (No names mentioned in this centext.) Also gets some |
very modest support from the Monthly Review, most of it in the form of books and
periodicals for their political use (and presumably, sales —- Lf possible), | Mike —
Spiegel of National SDS was in town this lest year, Cox said (no date) ‘and said h he
would try to get them support from the States. .
Cox himself first came to Paris to take French lessons prior to
assignment somewhere in Africa with one of:the church-identified international
voluntary service orgadizations. After 6 mos of language, he dec{ded that he wanted
to remain in Paris and proposed to his sponsors that he be allowg«to work here. oye
among deserters and draft resisters Xthe letter of proposal described this in social “
work terms,.but Cox said he didn't hide what he planned to do and in fatt let his | &
sponsors know; he didn't expect them to approve it), The group in effect turned = = 8 -|
their heads to the political implications of Cox' work, and agreed to let him stay “
in Paris on salary ($240, month); they asked for monthly reports, which he has not | |
sent them. Of his $240, he contiabutes $40 to the food budget of the house.
There are 20 deserters/resisters who live in the house, and . |
PETUNIA described them as a bunch of apolitical bums. Most of the good, politically

to Canada, then leave. Whose who remain behind aren't interested in politics and |: /.
aren't capable of much. ‘From one girl who hangs out.with this group he got various = +»

 

him that 1000 men in Canada, 15,000 in Alaska and others in France who are preparing .
to take over the US and are in training at the moment ("math class from 9=10 this ;
mocning") and asking Mao to send some divisions to help the invasion; another went <-
on @ starvation diet and saved every penny he could find (to buy his way out of
France), then went off and bought a monkey ($40); another always pulls a knife on - .
people, and threatans to so back into the Army 1£ not allpwed to play his game.
From Cox, PETUNIA learned that Philip Wagner is in Ganedé he saved enough, or
was able to find someone to bankroll him, aad went to Canada. PETUNIA got the
impression that this was under false documentatioa (which can be bought for $300, e-
(No names or ldats of where one cen get this documentation.) ;
Everyone déspleys the usual paranola on the subject of cra. Larry
and others ave positive that there is an agent in the house; they are very, suspicious
of each other and play games tvying to trip each other up. They claim that within
24 hours after a deserter has arrived la ‘France, the ‘Embassy knows everything about .

aim.

 

. “Cox has a ‘suisse fiancee who plans to join him soon in Paris; she |

is studying educational psychology in Geneva with an u/i professor there who Cox

said was about to set off. a vevolution in this field, Thay both want to go to the
States, and Cox talked about going there when she finishs in Geneva. He wants te
work in a factory and get involved in organizing within the movement. . Since he has
refused induction 3 times, he expects legal action to be taken ggainst. him when he
returas (and wondered whether'they' would also get him for aiding and abetting .
desextion within the army). He deseribed his major work here as dealing with
coserters and resisters, trylag to educate them and get them involved in the movement,
and in working with GIs in Germany, encouraging them to desert. 4 few GI's on R&R
have stayed at the house in Pantin ; |

ee
104-10063-10250

 

  

  
     

: : 4
° CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION

—— , ,
io D i ) PATCH | SECHEE/RTEAT | | MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK .
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
her of Station/ = OT |

RYBAT/MHCHAOS/Transmittal of Contact Report _
RENCE

   
  
   
  

      

 
 

    
  

   

Attaphed is a contact report on cuanasee"S 8 July meeting with
PETUNIA. a el See oS aes

     

    

 

Pak K Ullal

Paul K.. CHALEMSKY ~

    

 

   

- Attachment: H/W
. Contact Report.

    
 

"Distribution:

. 3 + C/EUR, watt

  
    
  
       

  

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
(OFPA-90301*

 
   
 

   

Date
‘IL July 1969

. ‘CLASSIFICATION ; * {HOS FILE NUMBER °
_ SECRET/RYBAT ; 200-6-387/3 4 59
. - OF)

  

  

 

 
14-00000

°° .-  @

wo ’

Deseribed life & times in Paris as tough, but getting a little
better now. Most of the deserters want to leave and none of those here are here
for political reasons. Cox made a trip to Sweden last winter (by microbus), and
mat the ADC thera, Said nobody likes Sweden (lousy weather, no work, lousy
people eventho they get a warm reception). —

| 2, EApUBINSKY: | .
: ‘ormer math prof at Tulane (got fired for taking part in some

protest - on the vacial issue?). Was in Warsaw earlier this summer for an
iaternational mathematiclan's conference, came to Paris and plans go to
Cambridge and then to Canada where he has a job offer (in Montreal. While Ay
ia Warsaw, met a Polish woman (age 32, Andreajea Be=~-; married, three children;
former funcationary of the PZPR but forced out because of Jewish origins), and
he is considering marrying her. She has asked him to come back to Warsaw and
live. Ee mentioned a strong possibility that he would be invited to teach or

do research at the Univ of Warsaw (apparently something of a center for higher
math), and said for personal and professional reasons he'd love to go =~ this
would be sometime around 1970/71, .Thinks of living in the ‘UK or Israel with

his new Polish wife after thats probably UK. Dubinsky was quasi~invited to

a meeting here with the Viets, which is why he was in Paris. Before leaving

the States he got letters of introduction from ReberiGreenbeste and Mel Rakeh
Rothenberg to Mme Than Van Pham. Dubiasky had been contacted by Dubinsky

about a meeting of mathematicians with the Viets ‘to discuss the state of .
higher math in Vietnam and life in general" [this apparently said with a straight
face!], which he billed to PETUNIA as an apolitical meeting "to prepare for ~
Anerican~Viet relations after the war". Dubinsky was supposed to meet Greenblatt
in Paris, but. he can’t find himamd can't find anyone who knows him...s0 he's:
taken to sitting in cafes in hopes Greenblatt with walk past! If Greenblatt

and the meeting don't show up soon, he's going to leave for Cambridge. He is
reluctant to contact the Viets directly despite the two letters of introduction
since he wine he'd not give the time of day to anyone who just appeared at his
door =~ with or without letters. [His position was reinforced by Susan George,
who agreed; George added that she didn! t know Than Van Phame]

é Mz

33° Martha BULTMAN: Se,

: : Met on 20 June (address: 4s ave, Hoche; tel CAR 42-84). Said
her father John Hess had just written a book on De Gaulle and his foreign policy;.
was rather proud of his father. Said "my. father would be considered to be
extreme left in the US, but actually he is cautious if even a conservative in
many ways." Said her parents were zaazkix very suspicious and had always told”
always to be careful since you never could tell when someone works for the CIA.
Deseribed her father as having a tremendous amount of knowkadge about a great
many things, which is reflected in his writing. He can easily argue an opposing
viewpoint, and does in social coaversations for the fun of it. Whey travel a
good deal, using Paris as hoke. Last year, her parents went to Amsterdam and
Switzerland and are planning to ge to Amsterdam again. Hess started out in
Latin America, twenty or so years ago. At one time he worked in Cuba making -
cigars or something (PETUNIA: that's a direct quote!); speaks Spanish perfectly.
Martha commented: “of course he is very sympathetic toward radical youth and the
ravolutionary movement in general, but has a critical spttit." He supposed to —
be very strict about not imposing on people he knows, and would never send one
friend to contact another. Had dinner one night (apparently recently)? with
Mary McCarthy and husband (chez Hess). Commented McCarthy is very- bourgeoise;
her husband is quiet and looks like Clay Shaw. McCarthy feels that the NVNese
have handled their propaganda rather badly on the war, and Hess agreed {no |
elaboration). :

'- Martha is syupathetic towarés the deserters and resisters.
in Paris, says there are 13 or 14 who are the real committed ones, but about
60 who are in the Paris "movement group! + McCarthy apparently has pretty
good contact with the movement, and is at least in contact with some resisters;
seid that she'd mentioned Cox's name once.

Martha works for SDS aa New Orleans, but is tirea of their .
rhetoric; she can't stand PlP people. Mentioned Sue Munaker (another PETUNIA

contact) had written a 40 page essay oa “the Nqmen's Liberation Movement to
be published in some forthcozing book om the studéSe left. Martha knows

Dubinsky.

 
14-00000

 

Sus a2, GEORGE: ; ;
Met Susan George on 24 June (address 42 x. du Cherche-tiidi;

. phone ‘number LIT 48-01) 6. . Discussed banning of PACS last October: she said the

leader of the MPL (Claude Bourdet) suggested that PACS members joinndé the MER;
theee had been no little hesitation efter the French had tossed Croyell out but

_ people wera new gravitating tcward the UbPLowhich is composed of individuals

from almost every political grouping. The MDPL'’s basic issue is of course °

_ Vietmam, though at bkse the movement is committed to an anti~imperialist, anti-

capitalist position. George described it as a very flexible organization with | ,

“no structured leaders or administrative committees so kz it can avoid the
. bureaucratic indecision of old PACS leadership groups., MDPL members are

developing “political consciousness” and have passed the point of regarding
the Vietnam war as just 2 'mistake’. :
George, herself, was working at the American College at in

the Registrar! 8 offices said there were about a half dozen radicals in the -

College, she knows them and is sympathetic toward their efforts, Claims the

_ schools administrator is a “paranoie dictator". She resigned after the

principal of the school accused her of “couspiratorial counseling". Has...
done trenslating work, but prt prefers more "active and less "confining" .
jobs. She has veceived an advance from Beacon Press to write a book on :

Americans deserters in France. When PETUNIA asked her where he income really

' cama from, she replied that she lives off hex husband!

The tone of the conversation with her, PETUNIA’ commented, was
very pro-WNeses she said they hava offered “magnanimous gestuxes to work with
‘thefAberican people after the war is over"... Feels that they are handling .
‘the war ahd the negotiations brilliantly, She frequently sees “her Vietnamese -
friends", and they have told her they are very satisfied with the progress of
ithe struggle and ite certain outcome, Mentioned that she would see her friends

.the next day to get their reactions/epproval to a circular prepared for

idistribution -edvertising the 4 July meeting. Aliso said she had just talked .

iwith her friends last night about the meeting. and was sure that they would

approve the eircular.

Mise: she made a tape for Pacifica Corp on "the war and
resistance, you ka0wees ",. said that a Paris lew student wha is giving legal
help and draft counselling to resisters in Paris (!)3 name not mentioned. |
said that last year she was mostly tied up with PACS and didn't work with

"Marxist Studay Groups". Plans to go to the US in August to visit her mother

5. John LNU: o ; ses . mo,
eserter from Army whom PETUNIA met in the Luxembourg by .

chance, Caaimed he was in security in the Army and was one of two who had

broken a Russian code; because he had.a German girlfriend and had gone off -
for several weekends with her (AWOL), he was throw in jail. Left about a .
year ago, he said, and has been in France for 7 months. Has no money and

: few possessions; is looking for ways to get $300 with which to buy papers to

go éo Canada where he wants to settle. Whiée in France, he has been living

off rich old women. Was living in the ADC house in Pantin but got thrown ; :
out because he was an acid-head and was bringing pot home. (PETUNIA commented . -
you have to be pretty bad to get thrown out of that house.) Claimed to be

from Cleveland, oxiginally. . Shid that some French movie actress puts up

the money for the deserters’ house and contributes to their funds, PETUNIA

. described his as a real crackpot and potentially dangerous. Has no place

to oer in Paris and is thinking about going south for a while: mentioned o
that "we" have a couple of colonies ia Toulouse. an aod

i
6 “Maris JOpASS ee
. Met on 2 July.

oa

Joles asked about the movement in the States

aad concluded that the radicals can't afford to bicker like children (with

veference to the SDS/P@LP split. Said she thought the PL position with respect to
the NVNese and the war was ridiculous — made no other comments on the American
movements : .
i Said that what happened to "Max" was regrettable, but that

his tactics were deplorable. Be virtually snubbed his nose at the French
polices

“Said that she felt the Anericari movement had largely forgotten
the war and that more work against the war wes being done in Paris than in ©
‘the US, Mentioned the Paris movement was pretty well coordinated and ready

‘to go with coordinated demonstrations to time with those held in the US, last .
fall, but the MOB simply failed to keep in touch with them. Said that this

was no fault of Dave Dekllinger's, whose credentials were impeccable, but he

 
