[oetoreat0azg)

 

 

pl}

 

‘INTERNAL USE ONLY esta
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Do Notes Only
Monday - 16 January 1978

a
COSFEENTIAL flown

5. (Internal Use Only ~ MMP) EMPLOYMENT Called Forrest
Frank, House International Relations Committee staff, to thank him for
his thank you note for the SALT briefing that he and Representative
Anthony C. Beilenson (D., Calif.) received on 28 December 1977. I also
thanked Frank for the curriculum vitae that he sent me on Alex
Gliksman. Frank told me that subsequent to sending me the letter, he
met Gliksman and was very favorably impressed by him. He added that
while Gliksman was somewhat dubious about employment with the CIA
(due to fear that this employment might prejudice his future employment
possibilities), he would be willing to discuss employment possibilities
with the CIA. I told Frank that I would pass the curriculum vitae on
to the appropriate office and thanked him for his interest.

6. (Unclassified - KIS) LIAISON Sent via courier to Carl Sahre,
in the office of Representative Donald J. Mitchell (R., N.Y.), background
information on Kenya per the earlier request of Larry Epstein, of the
Congressman's staff, of OoLc.

7. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Jackie Hess,
House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, who requested the date of
birth of Daniel Carswell who was the individual cited in their letter of
22 December 1977. In addition, Jackie indicated she would formally .-
request access to FOIA documents 1194 through 1363 both sanitized and
unexpurgated. Finally, she alerted me to a forthcoming request from the
Committee for delivery of the two Cuban counterrevolutionary handbooks.
Comment: this will be the first instance in which the Committee has
requested delivery of classified material,

8. (Confidential - THW) BRIEFING In response to a telephone
call to George Cary from Representative William Moorhead (D., Pa.), I
accompanied Brent Chambers and Pat-Maher, ORPA, to a meeting with
the Congressman to debrief him on the results of his trip to Cuba.
Mr. Moorhead was very cooperative and contributed some interesting
information on the Cuban situation. We also briefed him on the current
situation in Nicaragua.

9, (Confidential - THW) LIAISON Received a call from Pete Bonner,
Senate Appropriations Committee staff, who requested information on contact
with Senator Ted Stevens (R., Alaska) during his recent trip. I gave hima
brief rundown of the events that had taken place and told him I would get
additional information for him as soon as I had received a key cable.

2liolée

 

"INTERNAL USE ONLY

¥
