1700000

 

é

 

but not to mislead this Agency in any material matters of an operational
or. policy nature.
In order to avoid any misuncerstanding of the phrase "bona

fides" a: considered in this summary, NOSENiO will be judged primarily

 

on whets:.: be voluntarily defected to this Agency without KGB kno.siedge,
and whetner his 1962 and early 1964 contacts with representatives of this
Agency were known, to the KGB. Motivation and certain other pertinent
aspects will be considered, but his admitted previous errors, lies and
exaggerations will not per se warrant a conclusion that NOSENKO is nota
8 “vena fide" defector.

There is not an accurate standard or scale of measurement
against which information concerning NOSENKO can be balanced or
correlatec to determine if he is or is nota dispatched KGB officer. For
purposes of this analysis and summary, an arbitrary liet of areas
considered pertinent has been compiled, Readers may differ in regard to
whether this arbitrary standard is a completely accurate standard, but it
is felt that the information from NOSENKO and information from other
sources derived through independent investigation will permit the reader
to assess the information in toto against any standard he considers
appropriate.

ee The previous summary on NOSENKO entitled, “The Exami-
nation of the Bona Fides of a KGB Defector," has been considered in

i “SECRET c0010C8

  

uewneea
13-00000

 

¢ 3

 

eebeiwera ps rate.

 

the preparation of thie summary. [t will be commented on tn part

and this summary will include conclusions correlated with the reven
primery concluetons sot forth on page 358 of the above summary.
Remarka concerniag ceriti:. srrore, inconalstenctes, omiariong and
uneupported conclusions ic .te previeus summary ia regard to specific
cases or gub-areas will be included in this cummary. However, this
eummary will not include & point-by-potat comparison of all areas of
agreement or disagreement with information contained in the previoun
eummary.

A positive cecteion in regard to NCSENK® baeed on all
avatlable inforrnaiion should be made in ths framediate futare. There
are ao known sources currently avallable to provide new positive
tnformation concerning NOGENKO and kis bona fides. It tu recegnized
thet there {o always a porsibility In the future a mew source or sourcas
will be eble to furnish additional information in regard te NOSENKO.
However, this possibility is exceedingly tenuous and (t (se felt there
is cufficlent information avsiladle on which to base a conclusion in

the NOSENKO matter,

3 oGoalcs '

if
t
'

 
13-00000

 

   

INTRODUCTION

The following summary and analysis is not intended to be . “
all inclusive, that is to contain a specific comment on all organi-
zational, operational, personality and case type information furnished
by Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO. To attempt to do so would be repetitious
and confusing to the reader and would not be of material benefit in the
formation of logical conclusions concerning the rather limited areas of
primary concern.
This summary will not contain a detailed psychological
assessment of NOSENKO nor will it contain a recitation of the numerous
theories which have been promulyated in the past concerning varying
aspects of the NOSENKO case, This summary wili be primarily
directed toward the question of whether NOSENKO was or was not
* dispatched by the KGB, whether his claimed KGB c reer ig relatively
plausible and whether he has since late October 1967 been cooperative in *
a reassessment of the entire case for or against NOSENKO. NOSENKO
has admitted certain lies and exaggerations in the past but claims that

these were of a personal nature, intended to enhance his own importance

LUUL0G7

  

Bee ene
13-00000

 

i, INTRODUCTION

; tie 1 U001006 . Lo,
; SEGRET : _

evatewnnes aur eetonites cern ges TT
13-00000

 

 

iv.

nH. Is Tiere Any = Evicesce 4

 

2962 ov in L964 Wiih CLA Were i

      
 
  

 

mows to ti.
is Delcciion or That eNO: =NKO We

   

unciusions in Regaré to NCSENXO

A. NOSENKO Did Not Serve
Capac

ithe Naval RU in Any of the

  

maces and Times He Claimed

B. OSENKO Did Not Enter the KGB in the Manner or at th
Time Fe Claimed

  
  

can Embassy Section
eriod as He Claimed

 

Neither aS
oi, the Seventh
British Commonwealth Section

 

 

tor Desuty Chicz

E, NOSENKO Was
Section a nora Sen nior

  

FL NOSENKO's
‘Arnerican.

natin 1962 He was Criei of the

ommonwealta Section and Was

Thereafter a Depuiy Chiei of the Seventh Depariment,
e Not Credit

 

 

G. NOSENKO Has no Valid Claim to Certainty That the KGB
Recruited No American Embassy Personnel Between
1953 and His DeZection in 1964

e60L004

 

 
13-00000

eMneX A « Staves

 

83 of Sevier: ONiciais About NOSE:

   

Annex % = Sur. ries of Cuses Noz

 

maneé in Text

Annex C + The Cucrepanov Papers

C0010C5

 
13-00000

CONCLUSIONS AND COMMENTS
IN THE CASE OF

YURIY IVANOVICH NOSENKO

 

9

ere ee Re

 
104-10534-10203

 

 

        

fo.
. . Declass ied and Approved fo:
ry ; by the Central Intelligence orale

. Date:
SUSE SELECT COPLEY LEE OM ASSASSEBATIONS STALE HERES, ZOOS

MATIIU AL PEVOENEa AT C1 TAL WAPTE RS

  
   
 

npanmenyvozune: CAs

 

 

- WIT/LOCAT ION:

 
    

ORAS

    

 

 

son aes a,” AM RB RETO 2-88 Serre cemree

 

 

a
3
x
a
t

 

 

   

EY TRS ae RE ORES Seem Ne SI aR ea te

 

“EMTS MAY BE COPTED QF ELNOVED EFRON THTS FILE.

  
13-00000

 

   

Rta bee é

1 Sciaber 1965

ME MORAN NDUM POR: Cisector of Security

FROM Deputy Chick, Sccurity Rescarch Stall

SULJZCT HROGENAO, Yuriy ivanovich

1, Jn accordance with tie resuest of the Deputy Circcter
of Central Intelligcace, aNachca to a summery wih ccaclusioas
concesaing the bona fides of Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENHO. Sube
conclusions are conisined ia tic sumrsary concersiag sevecsl
mejor areas which were siven primary conuideration In ice matier
of the bona {ides of NCSL,

       

thoes

 

 

2. Inchuded in this cummoar :
conclusions in the pro

wuarks on three copazate

c

ar

“

  

nan

3. In bric!, ihe cosecluuica of cic 3 :
’ fe the person he claims to be, tio. he head bic elatracd posk
the KGB during 1953 + January lyo4, leat NCOENMO was act cise
patched by the “GD, and tast iis previous lies and exagecrutions
aro nots actually of material ciuncicance at thia time.

  
      

 

Eruce L. Sclics

Attachment;
Summary

BLS:ko

 

 
13-00000

 

 

i, aniTcauction

ai. Summary of Develop
30 Octoder 1967

 

s in NCSENKO Case Since

   

=i. : Bona Fides of Yuriy

: Person Wiom re Claims

 

ned by NOSENKO to CLA
ms, Personalities

Commensurate Wi

  
  
   

 

  

E. Can the Informati
Considered in Tove

 

 

g Resultec in Mater
Damage to the «GB anc/or Has the information
Furnisned by NOSENAO Been of Signiticant Bex
to Western Intelligence?

   

F, Is There Evidence of KGB Deception or "Give-Away"
in Information Furnisnec by NOSENKO Which W
Warrant a Conclusion that NOSENKO was Dispa:

a by the KGB? : :

    

oO
be
o
ish

 

. GOLLCCS ,

 

 

   
