 

several Polite Taspectors and

. . . \
" AS a result,-¥ plan to make up a chart,or table of organization,of an actual

interrogation center for this Purpose, In addition, I will make ‘an estimate
of any additional expenses which might be involved in the near future. Since I
have had actual KUBARK expdrience in an interrogation center, I believe I am

at least somewhat qualified to make certain suggestions.

(EYE: in ‘the

KQ) Interrogation Center created for the interrogation o.

  

repatria 2s

 

 

Also, I was head of a five-man

om the USSR, I was chief of the CE Seetion. In additéon, i trained
Officers in interrogation techniques.
interrogation team.) .

°

. . oi :
'- 4. An interrogation center of the type I have in mind, after serious consideration

‘of the ‘personnel, facilities and sources available to AMBUD, should put AMBUD on

the operational wap, so to speak, and should also do credit to JMWAVE. This centerk
would uot be ia opposition tc, or in competition with CAC, since the sources tapped
would be those they are’ not physically able to handle and the women: who now are -

under no one's jurisdiction for such MRKEREEX purposes, :

5. At: your conventence -I woulg ‘like the opportunity

to discuss this program ¢

with you and to also talk about the tequirements for passing to AMBUD.

‘g
Alice’B. Caporong
‘og 40236-10008

a a a comeurnee wemeeien 20m manent oe amlimeeme mee Se

 

tw

17 October 1962

MAMORANDUM FOR! oe Gfter
SUBJECT: intelligence collection Program for AMBUD = .
REFERENCES: A, WAVE-8986 :

B. DIR-38543

C, WAVE-9108

D, DIR-39823 SO

1, As per reference D Heddquarters concurs in this program and has offered
to forward requirements if JMWAVE so desires. Since this approval was obtained
from Headquarters, I have taken the following steps: (A) requested and obtained
some requirements from IS to be used. in this program and (B) through PASSAVOY
have requested some basic informatton as to specific facilities for use in this
program. AMBUD-1 is to advise us on the following matters: if the Hotel Monroe,
fer which AMBUD receives approximately $800 per month, has space available for
the. establishment of an interrogation center; if AMBUD. has individuals now, 99 its
payroll who could be used in this program as interrogators and tranalatored? L£
AMBUD-I has, as requested, advised the group members of AMBUD to each appoint
an individual as "Jefe de Informacion" in such cases vhere one does not already
exist. . : a

‘. are

2. My primary purposesin setting up this collection program au/to obtain
useful information and to make AMBUD a useful organization with a purpose in mind--
a purpose with # practical aad visible ends. AMBUD is a large organization couposed
of a nimber gfignayps and individuals which also has affiliates who are rot actual
members. The/personnel avaikbk to it is undoubtedly unequailed in the WAVE area. -
From this vast reserve of manpower, there is every reason to believe competent
interrogators can be found, although most of them would naturally need training in
intérrogation and reporting techniques, which factor can be surmounted. In addition
to the AMBUD personnel supply, there is also a vast, untouched number of sources it
of information in the WAVE area. For example, part of each plane load whia of exiles
which arrives frum CUba is released by Immigration; the remainder (about 2/3) are
sent to CAC, Of that number all are screened at CAC and about § are ectually
interrogated at CAC due to the lack of personnel to handle any more cases. In ashex”
waxds addition, no women arriving from Cuba are interrogated at CAC. Therefore,
the number of persons who are potential sources of information available to AMBUD
would be approximately 2/3 of all those arriving from Cuba, plus all the women.

" 3. 1 think we should approcah this information collection program with an

aim of ngking it an astual going concern and not a hol?ing operation or as just
‘an activity €o keep AMBUD busy or make them feel they are contributing to the casse.
