 

Page 2

City, Oklahona, on 24 August 1927, left
home for Mexico City in 1947-48 after
her father renzrried. She hag since lived
in Ecuador, Cuba, and Mexico, and has
been involved with the men and politica
of a number of Latin Countries. Durirg
these years she has ceveloped a host of
friends nod acquaintarces, both U.S. and
Latin, that includes political leaders,
journalists, ciplomats, and sea and women
from a number of professions, sone of

Se eeer
Wace te ae eanyeg Beoreen O-SLL lott

Her taste in friends is omnivorous and
she embraces (scrotiges literally} and
has access to extrerista fron both right
anu left political groupe anc has variously
been accepted and distrustea by both pro~ .
and anti-U,5. interest groups. (See List
of Associates, para. 3,d,1, below). First
contacted by a KYBARK Staff Ruployee in
Habana in 19539 chen she was _csployed by
the goverumeit of Pidel Casters, she reperte:
on Cuban personnel and activities until
she left Cuba and for some tine afterward.
She was picked up by Mexico Stetion in

Deceaber 1951 when she bad lost her access -.

end hes tes ane

to Cuban targets aad bas bess réporting
on the activities and thinking of various
Latin pro-Communist revolutiosaries
including(LIXL iCH9l a Communist Party -
penetration who is her current lover.

b. She has intentionally or
unintentionally indicated her enploysent
with the U.S. Government to a nexber of
intimates and ecquaintances. Persons
suspecting her acsociation with U.S.
intelligence include the following:
Horacio GODOY, Argentine law professor;

 

 

a

ete teeta mae

crenata ab tee

ete ede eee
 

$04-40475-10107

 

15 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA '
SUBJECT ¢ Y¥iola June CosB, C-83492

Roference: Request for Information and Review,
9 October 1962

1. As requested. in the reference, attached

Bannan 2 +

Rercts 25 AB copy Cl thw between Ae EUG ba OF
Viola June COBS. (Please return this file to
WH/3/¥exico for Subject's 201).

2. Staff D collateral information, recuted
through CI/0A on 9 October 1962, provided no
derogatory infurmation that is not included in
Biss COBB'S 201 file: expulsion from Guatemala
in Novernber 1961 after proof vas obtained by the
Government of Cuateuala “that she was a Castro
&geent whose mission in Guatenaia was to distribute
pro-Castro and Comaunist proraganda among university
students"; translator of a boos written by forser
Guatemalan Presicent Juan Jose AREYALO, "The

Fable of the Shark and the Sardines," which agsails .

Goverment and bisiness in the United States.

3. Below is s summary of information from
Subject’s 201 pertinent to the reference, with
attachments which are to be returned to WH/3/Hexico
for inclusion in Scbject's 201. Since Mexico City
Station has consistently provided information
concerning Subject and her relation to Station
operations and agents, no further field traces
will bo requested unless roquested by your office.

a. Viola June COBB, born in Ponca Fi

 

sie Aoedteiladehs +
 

Zipl

Page 3 .

Bayless HANNIEG, Yale University: jaw
professor;

Bichsel Sidney COLIN, U.8. citizen who

was essociated with #illias Morgan

im Habana;

Rosalbo E0CA, close friend in New York

who is a citizen of the Dosiaicar Republic;
and Diane ALEXANDRIA, also a friend in

Hew York City on resident visa.

c. Yo Wererh 1962 she was called before
the Senate Subcommittee on isnteruss
Security and questicned on Cuban associations
and activities. To our knowlecge, she
did not divulge any contact with EUBARE.
As a result of this hearing, ete was
contacted by Drew Peargon’s assistant,
Jack Ancerson, and the interview resulted
im an article in Parade, the Fashington
Post, 12 August 1302.

dad. Attached to this memorandum are
the following documents from Subject's
261 (to be returned to ¥H/3/kexico}:

1. List of Associates of Viola June
COBB. (1960)

2. Mesorandua to WH/3/Mexico, irom
WH/4/CI (on Subject)

3. Memorandum for the Record (2 April
1962). Contact report with Subject
concerning Senate Subcommittee
hearing.

4. Article on Subject from Parade:
*Heet June Cobb.”

es,
Attachments; As stated above ‘
Distripptloniqaressee, w/atts ‘
vl - Subject, w/o atts

WH/3/Mexico, ;ac/x5940 (15 Oct 62)
03 peunth

 

 

serene phe metas

Aether we

i
4
j

+ te ent a t

sen hide a sa tet we
