14-00000

- 1
; eC
“ear
io
v

a ee a NR pene it eee ci ont ne cern pee ene nee oe

. |

SA/DDCI/Smith ~

OLC/Breckinridge
ccs
OS/SAG/Reardon

OGC/Morrison

 

{ UUNTIUGE TAL |

CI Staff/Sednaoui

PCS/LOC/Shepanek
PA/Petersen
0GC/Mayerfeld

~ | CONFIBENTIAL ]

5
14-00000

ee |

a - 6.°-Ms. ‘spasato agreéd with me that if Ms. Bagley was
volunteering to appear, there was no basis for DOJ repre-
sentation or sponsorship. Since the Agency was totally
unaware of Mr. Bagley's actions, she said she would contact -
Bagley directly to learn his status. On 15 November she
informed me that Bagley was indeed a volunteer and that DOJ
had declined to represent him or pay for private representa-
tion.

oh

7. On 15 November, at about 1230 hours, I received a
call from Philip Chabot, Esq., of Duncan, Brown, Weinberg
and Palmer, P.C., who indicated he was representing Mr.
Bagley. Chabot is a cleared attorney - OS#659 094. Chabot
indicated that Bagley was appearing before the Committee at
1000 hours on 16 November and was very anxious to obtain or
review some Agency materials before he did so.

8. Chabot indicated that Bagley wanted the following:

a. The original memo (said to be in his hand-
writing) which set forth disposal options for Yuri
Nosenko (mentioned in John Hart's public testimony at
line 4218, and in Richard Helms' public testimony at
line 4610).

b. The original (plus the excised portions) memo
from DC/SB referring to the aims of the polygraph
examination of Yuri Nosenko (Hart 2981/Helms 2068).

c. The original letter with attachments from
DC/SB which speaks of “devastating consequences" (Hart
3877).

d. Bagley's complete personnel file, including:

(1) Reference to his transfer from Hqs in
1966/67.

(2) His fitness reports, including all com-
ments, for the period 1962-1972.

(3) His promotion recommendations for the
period 1962-1972.

(4) His medal and accompanying citations.

 

| CONFIDENTIAL |

2
104-10066-10113

. 4 . os occ 7° -7740
Sg 7 4 . ; . 21 Nd. smber 1978

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

: FROM : Richard L. Rininger
ca Sn Assistant General Counsel
SUBJECT : Appearance of Mr. Tennent Bagley Before
The HSCA

1. On 15 November, I spoke with Mr. Tennent (Pete)
Bagley and his counsel, Philip Chabot, concerning Mr. Bagley's
appearance before the House Select Committee on Assassina-
tions on 16 November.

: 2. This Office first became aware that Mr. Bagley
might make such an appearance on 13 November. On that date

a Mr. Ernest Mayerfeld was contacted by Mr. William Shaeffer
of the Civil Division, DOJ. Mr. Shaeffer indicated that Mr.
Bagley had written to DOJ réquesting that DOJ hire private
counsel to represent him in an appearance he planned to make
before the Committee.

3. Since Mr. Mayerfeld was to be out of town for the
next several days, he asked me to contact Shaeffer and
handle the matter.

4. On 14 November I called Shaeffer, but actually
dealt with Ms. Janice Spasato (633-3333). I informed her
that the Agency had not been contacted by Bagley, nor had
the Committee said anything to us about him, so it would
seem that he might be volunteering an appearance. I told
her it: was my understanding that Mr. Bagley, who is retired,
was living in Brussels.

5. Ms. Spasato told me that Mr. Bagley had returned to
this country and was now residing in Vienna, Virginia. In
his letter to DOJ (we have no copy) he apparently indicates
that he has returned in order to set the record straight and
was prepared to stay as long as necessary to accomplish
that. Bagley wished to be represented by Duncan, Brown,

moet Weinberg and Palmer, P.C. (the firm which has represented
: James Angleton).

‘ . 9 INPDET
| CONFIDENTIAL | Ft ny 5

| a b5°
14-00000

“_

Ul Whee Hine i
ve . . . . . | ; . te

9. OT ‘told Chabot that I wasn't the one to make the
decision in the matter, but I would take the appropriate
steps here and contact him as soon as I could. f then ‘
relayed the substance of the call to John Morrison of this
Office and S.D. Breckinridge, OLC.

10. Mr. Breckinridge took steps to locate the various
items. I checked with Ray Reardon, OS/SAG, to learn what
Mr. Bagley's clearance status was.

11. Breckinridge convened a meeting at 1630 to discuss
the Agency's response. Others attending were
CCS; Michael Sednaoui, CI Staff; N. Shepanek, PCS/LOC; and
myself. At about the time the meeting convened I called
Chabot to tell him we had not forgotten him and that we were
about to make our decision. He asked if they could have
access to the data that evening if we decided to grant
access. I also learned from Reardon at about this time that
Bagley did not presently hold any clearances.

 

 

 

 

12. Coincidentally, most (but not all) of the files
bearing upon Bagley's request were in the headquarters
building and were assembled for the meeting. Most of the
data is classified and some of the classified data incorporates
the fact that Bagley was under cover and retired under
cover. The paper setting out the options for Nosenko's
disposal is one of the items which is not classified.

13. At this meeting the decision was made to grant no
access on such a hurried basis. First, Bagley is not pre-
sently authorized access to any classified information
(though the attorney is). And second, the Agency had not at
that point had any contact with Bagley himself. Consequently,
we had no idea what his wishes were relative to his cover
status or what the Agency's reaction to that would be. (The
cover file was not in the building and consequently not
available for our review.) It should be emphasized that
this was the short term response. It was recognized that
there are steps available to Mr. Bagley if he takes them, by
which he can seek to obtain the requested data.

14. I called Chabot to relay this decision at about
1745. Chabot was disappointed but cordial. He indicated
that Mr. Bagley was with him at the moment and asked me to
speak to Bagley directly.
f Whee ramus ease 8

ite . - {

- {
*' 15. I spoke with Bagley at some length, reiterating.
what I had told Chabot. I noted that Bagley presently held
no clearances, that the Agency had not until that moment, to
my knowledge, had any direct contact with him, and that his ‘
retirement status in itself raised some problems and questions.
Bagley replied to the effect that it was silly to worry
about cover any longer, since the press had been in contact
with him very shortly after the close of John Hart's public
testimony (even though Hart had not used Bagley's name in
that testimony). I replied that, be that as it may, this
Agency would not accept that alone as a basis for changing
its position on the cover matter.

16. I indicated to Bagley that if he wished to change
his status, he should write a letter to the Agency requesting
such a change. I also indicated that he could make a request
pursuant to the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts, to
obtain the data he is seeking. He took down details from me
and gave indication that he would indeed send a letter
concerning change of cover status, and an FOI/PA request. I
also indicated to him that the paper concerning Nosenko
disposal options was unclassified and had been made avail-
able to the Committee. I suggested he ask the Committee for
access to the paper at the time of his appearance.

17. Mr. Bagley was quite cordial throughout our con-
versation and thanked me for the information I had given
him.

18. After speaking with Bagley, I recontacted Phil
Chabot and relayed to him the security ground rules for such
an appearance. Chabot confirmed that Bagley's appearance
on the 16th was to be in executive session. He was familiar
with the security procedure, since he had been involved in
James Angleton's appearance before the Committee. I did
reiterate that Bagley was free to make a full and complete
response in an executive session, including responses involv-
ing classified information, so long as the questions were-
relevant to the Committee's mandate. I also indicated that
if there was any doubt as to relevance, he could ask to
defer his response until he had an opportunity to consult
with Agency officials on the matter.

Richard L. Rininger

»/ Mov 73
