74-0000

4. With resrect to pate 23, certain operational résponaibi.
Uities should pass from DO/2 to DD/P upon completion of
research and development; however a study should be made to
determine whether the many fully intesrated operational activities
such as OXCART and some fully integrated ELINT operations
should not be permanently under DD/R who is to have both
operational and research and development responsibilities,

Considerations of OXCART
rrr OF VAG ARS

1. Responsibility for all phasea of OXCART are to follow
the direct supervision of Sec/Def and DCI by agreement with the
OD, Charyk as AR/Sec.Def., will be executiva head of NRO, DD/R
will be his Deputy and by assignment will be responsible for all
phases of OXCART.

2. Details of operations, as contrasted to R&D, will be
worked out at a later date.

: 3. NSC directive agreed OXCART tasks are responsibility
of Special Group and question of augmentation is a matter for Special
Group, not CIA, to decide. | .

“he 4. DD/R should be charged with the responsibility of
mobilizing and utilizing all necessary resources of DD/I, DD/P and
DD/S and General Counsel in performance of DD/R's assigned respon-
sibility as Deputy Director NRO and manager of OXCART project.

5. Question of use of Air Force officers versus civilians
must be decided by higher authority, likewlse the question of Operational
responsibility between that of CIA or DD/R or personnel secanded from
the Air Force versus direct Air Force operation must be decided by DCI
and Sec/Def. and the President after careful consideration of all issuea
and problems relating to this matter. ,

6. Because of imminence of commencement of test
flights immediate careful attention should be given ta all aspects of
the cover story as certain information concerning the plane will
become known when it ig observed in FAA Chat othey) radar

V. National Indications Centex Watch Committee
a eee atch Committee

1, Appointment should be made next week for General
Carter and myself to visit the NIC and the DLA Centers and
observe the Watch Committee Operations and make a judgment
as to whether this organization is Properly set up and
efficiently operating, and to rasolve differences between
Mr. Coyne and USIB,

*
14-00000

2. White House briefings should continue; a substitute
for Mr. Amory should be arranged until a more adequats
arrangement is provided: Daily briefiags of Bundy, Clifton
and Taylor and an occasional briefing of the President by
DCI should suffice.

JOHN A. McCONE
Director

 

 
74-00000

3. National Board of Estimates should be reviewed and
improved where necessary and consideration given to formation
of a apecial group within O/NE to analyze on a continulag basis
objectives of Soviet/sino Bloc, international communism and
thelr pursuit of their cold war activities and in their efforts to
establish world domination. Note: This office previously
existed directly under DD/I but was abandoned a few months
ago,

4 Proper Malson with finance, State Department, and

~ agreed methods for DCI to brief NSG as provided by law

should be worked out,

5. National Photographic Interpretation Center, Page 19.

Note this requires immediate study, possibly by USIB.
Fear that the work load on the NPIC will overwhelm {t andas a
result it will be unable to process vast amount of information
during months of May through September should be quickly studied
and arrangements made through USIB to disperse read-out to SAC
and Army St. Louls Center if doing ao neceagary to keep our
processing and read-out on a current basis. This matter
considered of greatest importance.

IV. Elements of DD/R

1. It should be recognized that Deputy Director for
Research is a cover and this‘ office not necessarily confined
to research but should be tad xed with operationed responsibi-
lities. Also most important project under DD/R is OXCART,
therefore DD/R must be restrained from taking on collateral
activities so fast that OXCART will suffer. The DD/R
responsibilities will cover all phases of Agency responsibility
and activity in NRO which may or may not include the actual
operation of CXCART. It will include intelligence input into
OXCART and CORONA and SAMOS planning, irrespective of
where operations rest.

2. Location of OSI should be resolved. :

3. Interrelationship between DD/R and DD/P to provide
staff support and particularly the Cl production should be
established by directive of Deputy DCI,
74-00000

_#

I. Office of DD/P

1. Pace 9: Important to ™Move on an Assistant DD/P for
Pararmilitary operatioas and alr support, There is

continuing criticigm of the Ageacy for lack of professionalism
in these activities, most particularly airborne,

2. Domestic Division,
aa eatic Miv-sion,

. Care must be exercised and the merger of Contact
Division with the balance of the Domeatic Division and
also care must be exercised to be sure that the Domestic
Division “gathers up" all fragments of CIA's activities
dispersed throughout the United States with the exception
of Security Division, ‘

3. Deputy Chief of the Division of British Commonwealth

Definition of this office must be worked out to avoid
confusion with respect to amall British areas such as Hong
Kong, Singapore, British Guiana, etc. The purpose of
this office probably to handle Commonweaith versus Colonial
Office affaira.

4. CIA/State Relations, *
are Relations

Review of salary allowances, expense accounts,
living conditions, etc., of CLA agents under State cover
versus Foreign Service Olficerg cormmparable conditions
should be made and if criticism legitimate, corrective
™Measures:should be taken without impairing abiliega@itere
OF SRRIGH toxhandle special costly situations which might
bedéne by svecific atthorizatiam: Also audit and control
of personal expenses of COS must be developed immediately.

qi, Office of DD/I

1. Carter ang McCone should agree on selection of a DD/I,
Deputy DD/I and Chief of OClas initial step in improving personnel
within this office, . -

Z. Merger of O/NE and OCI should be delayed until new
DD/I is installed and makes his recommendations, .
74-00000

1C.

ll.

12.

i) yeu gr
The or ganization of the DCI/DDCI's office is currently under study.

The Audit Staff is removed from the DD/S area and placed under
the Inspecter General.

The Compirolle: is removed from the DD/S3 area, given greatly
expanded responsibilities, anu will report directly to the Dbcl/
DDCI's office.

The General Counsel's office is removed from under the DD/S,
will resume responsibility for Congressional relations, and will
report directly to the DCI/DDCI's office.

The Office of Cperations is disbanded. Contact-Division to DD/P
as nucleus for Domestic Division. Foreign Documents Division
to be combined with OCR Library. Foreign Broadcast Information
Division to be independent unit reporting directly to DD/I.

Position of Assistant DD/P for Covert Action abolished.
Assistant DD/P for Paramilitary and Air Support Operations created.

Central Support Staff under DD/P created. This will draw together
such support as personnel, logistics and budget and will also take
over technical support from those operating units of TSD which
remain in the DD/P, e.g., secret writing, audio operations, etc.
The Central Support Staff will also absorb the present Operational
Services Staff and certain other activities.

A Special Task Force is created for such operations of a magnitude
that transcends the capabilities of one division.

The International Organizations Division and Covert Action Staff
are combined, putting together our largest activities in this field.

A Domestic Division is created. This will absorb as its nucleus
Contact Division of CO from the DD/!I, the Commercial Staff, the
Air Proprietary Branch from DPD, ultimately the management of
CAT from the DD/S, and those aspects of cover which involve
contacts with the U.S. business community.

A Deputy Director for Research is created. This or ganization will
take over the Office of Scientific Intelligence from the DD/I, Special
Projects ..::m DPD, all research and development from TSD, and
other research and development activities currently located in various
units of the Agency such as the Office of Communications, NPIC, etc.

SEZ RET

. -
74-00000

March 29, 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Notes on discussions between myself, Carter, Kirkpatrick

Coyne and Schuyler ia review of report of the Kirkpatrick
Committee

Following recommendations call for further consideration and

possible modification,

Office of the DCI a

i. Page 1 - Comptroller gs ea

Terme of Reference of the Financial Policy and Budget
Committee under the Comptroller and the Executive Committee
as provided hereafter must be clarified to provide continuing .
program review by a senior committee as par? of an orderly

| program and budget process. ‘

2. : Office of Coordination,

Differences between Kirkpatrick and Schuyler position
a8 outlined in the report and Coyne's position should ba
considered and reconciled. Page 3, Item C, Responsibility for
SIGINT policies and resulting international arrangements aa a
responsibility of this office should be further considered.

3. Public relations directive should be issued on policy of
speech making and public appearances by Agency employees,

- including DCI and the Deputies.

4. Page 6. Reduction of forcs consideration should be given
with continuing 3-man management review committes (such aa

‘the Kirkpatrick Committee) exploring for the DCI and the DDCI

ways and means of eliminating duplication and consolidating
functions, eliminating \nnecessary activities, with the objective
of developing better organization at leaser cost and with

fewer personnel, :

5. 6.B. Terms af Reference for the Executive Director and
the selection of this man should be discussed between McCone
and Carter at an early date.
74-0000

Coordination

The staff of the Assistant for Coordination has continued to work
on the same basis as formerly and continues to be constituted of
assignees from other agencies. There appears to be progress in

, achieving closer inter-agency coordination, but whether this is due

to the work of the Coordination Staff or to the DCI's personal interest
in this subject would be hard to determine,

Princeton Consultants to ONE.
This group has been continued.

National Photographic Interpretation Center

The Executive Director has personally kept under review the work-
load of NPIC. NPIC is recruiting in anticipation of an increased work~
load.

Caliber of Personnel

The new DD/I is cognizant of this problem and is taking steps to
improve the caliber of the personnel.
..

Merger of ONE and OCI
It has been decided not to merge these offices.
Preparation and Dissemination of Memoranda

Too many uncoordinated memoranda are still being circulated,
The practice of asking other departments to prepare memoranda has

not beén adopted.

White House Relations

(This matter was handled orally by the Working Group and con-
sequently the comments will be handled similarly.)

 
‘toa t0rt8-t0427

 

Organization and activities of the
Deputy Director (Research)

Development Projects Division « Special Projects Branch
a Se on Special Frojects Branch -

As recommended, the Special Projects Branch of DPD plus the
necessary supporting unita have been transferred. to DD/R. -

Technical Services Division
aaa ewces Mivision

Further study did not commend implementation of the Working
Group's recommendation that all TSD research and development be -
placed under DD/R. The DD/P made a substantial argument in favor
of leaving all of TSD under his control in order to insure close and
intimate relations with the operating unite. Further, an argument of
almost overwhelming proportions indicated that the DD/R already had
some very major responsibilities without taking on the diverse and
generally unrelated responsibilities of TSD,

€

Other Research and Development
a ane evelopment |

After considerable additional study it was decided to transfer all
ELINT to DD/R, except for the direct command of certain field units
which under ali circumstances should be left under the station chiefs,
Research and development in suppoxt of NPIC would fall under DD/R
for those very advanced items, but not for current production require-
ments.

-@.
14-00000

rs os

Research on International Communism
rnc nr eee OMmMunis mm

The DD/I has established & special staff under an experienced

intelligence officer for this Purpose, and this staff ig getting gradually
organized.

Oifice of Scientific Intelli ence
ene intelligence

OSI is remaining under DD/I, but DD/R will eventually open his
career service to those who wish to join it.

DD/R's Operational Responsibilities

It has been firmly established that DD/R will operate those pro-
jects which he develops. We believe that DD/R has implemented some
of the principles in the special annex of the Working Group report.

 
74-0000

ro

Organization and Activities of the

Intelligence Communit
ee yommunity

National Indications Center - Watch Committee

General Carter, the new Chairman of the Watch Committee, hag
made a thorough review of its activities and NIC operations, Steps
have been taken to sae that NIC is properly manned with the right
péreonnel, and the Department,of State is being constantly reminded
of its obligations in this regard. We also believe that the methods of
operations of the Watch Committee have now been aligned in accord-
ance with the objectives of the Working Group.

CIA Relations with the Department of State
nee ann nen bor tment of State

   

Departm

Bee

  

e

The proposal for the creation of such an office in the Department
of State appears to have come to naught,

State's Operational Center

The State Operational Center also appears to have come to naught.

State at White House Briefings
The Department of State does not attend the White House briefings.

Receipt of Top Classification Messages
Ee ation Messages

Tho DCI has taken up with the White House the necessity for being
included in the dissemination of all top classification messages,

-H-

    

6

 

 
