   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
    
   
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

; SECRET

 

Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD

   

“The gabject of ‘the OSWALDs was introduced. into ‘the
_ interrogation during a discussion about the difficulty a
. Soviet citizen, who marries .a foreigner, encounters in.
“attempting to leave the USSR if the KGB chooses. (fer some
o reason) not to. ‘permit. the Soviet citizen tao emigrate. oo. _ °

 

: ; “Subject. stated ‘that. at goes without saying that prior to.
.. receiving KGB's sanction not a single Soviet citizen, whether _
‘he or she is married to a foreigner, would be allowed te ee

  
   

. ‘Asked af Cy ‘case of Marina OSWALD's: departure from wes
~ ‘the. Soviet Union. was typical, Subject replied that her. - ns
departure from the Soviet Union was neither typical nor usual, | ht

particularly in view of the fact that her husband, Lee Harvey —

' OSWALD, was’ a very. strange. individual, He bad been in Cuba, .

and then came to the Soviet Union not as a tourist, but as.

an American defector whe renounced his American. citizenship.
and attempted to-become a Russian citizen. This in itself .

’ is unusual. for ‘an American ~ it is not typical and very rare.-
for an American. to-do so, and Subject believed that an.

. .° American. doing what OSVALD did (seeking Soviet citizenship ©

ooo amd renouncing. American citizenship) could only do so because.

 

 
    

 

St tn answer. “request for. ‘his opinion. regarding ‘the :
. ‘OSWALD - case, Subject: said that all of his. information was based -
only on what was known to everyone who read the newspapers .
- after the KENNEDY assasination and on what he read in a con=
.densed version of the Warren Report while he was in Western
a Europe «: When pressed for his personal opinion he said it was .
“a very unusual ~ situation, Normally a Soviet citizen (like... :
Marina) would not be allowed to leave the Soviet Union, in a
-fact the Soviet authorities would try im some way to convince
- the citizen not to leave, However, if a Soviet married a | .
‘foreigner,. and ‘Ansisted. on leaving he or she could always, as
- a. last resort, be refused an exit visa, “There have been . .
cases. where a “Soviet citizen married a foreigner and received -
an exit visa, however, in such cases the Soviet authorities we
- have conceded. to the exit visa requests only because they felt.
.| that the foreign spouse may have had some influence, and could:
“have created adverse publicity for the Soviet Government had: ae
-. ‘the exit visa net been granted, This was definitely net so
-4n OSWALD's case. OSWALD could not insist that Marina be ar
granted an exist visa since he was not in a position te de se, —
and consequently the Soviet authorities were net compelled to = =.
_do-so unless they specifically wanted to let her | 0 to America ;
with OSWALD. :

 

 

 

When askea- to still further elaborate ‘on his beliefs _
regarding the case, Subject stated that in this case (OSWALD's), .
Subject couldn't guess, and in order to come to any kind of a .
valid conclusion he would have to know something (factual), ;
which he doesn't, His opinion, however, is strictly an
opinion without any basis or fact. He thinks that KGS was
-definitely interested in OSWALD while the latter resided in the
‘USSR, To presume that OSWALD could have lived in the Soviet | .
Union as a simple American is excluded, Subject believes that —

arn]

ones
aN SECRET

CATT 40. “AzeA- “3534,

 
(odt00s7-40022]

 

    

  

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK 7
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

 
    
 
   
 
        

: Reference

  
 

“AZPA-2524, 20 May 1968 cS.

  
 

‘Attached are ‘three 5 reports, as ‘explained in para 2 of a

"Reference, on: the following topics:

  
       

   

 

 

Marina ‘and: ‘Lee Harve OSWALD . :
Soviet Detectors . Khimey (40. Gout is sya ay”
K han pcucyey

  
 
   

8 Travellers. Checks (aadendut}

ge me

Lremorn H. PHILBROOK | Co

    

    
 

  
  
 
 

 

  
   

 

ee Attachments: —-Herewith
AS stated bove: - 2 copies each

—— sone 206- 206-439 5

for FOIA Review on FEB ‘Bt i.

 
  
  
 
 

    

ce pistcipgesens
- -BOC/SB w/atts

      
   

AS of Nov 73 file review, these. attachnents 5
“removed ‘for txtting filing:

   

 

   

   

AEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING ~ Final L_Rpports,
CIA, April- ~July 68,

   

 

 

 

 

   

 

  
 

we weyereee |

GROUP I- ‘EXCLUDED FROM Auto ae :_POMNGRADING AND DECLASSIPICATIO:

coTt

DISPATOH SYMEOL AND wa "
AZPA=2534 —

 

    
 
 

 
 

5 June 1968 -

  

CIASSIFICATION
SECRET

  

 

    
 

 

 

 
— over sanction such an operation (the assasination) Subject

 KHRUSHCHEV was considered by Subject te.be an ignorant

 

oo “takings. - ‘Subject. said, however, that this could never occur = .
under the present Soviet leadership, Subject considered that

‘oan an armed. ‘conflict. between the two nations, had Soviet

 

a Americans were using OSWALD, a crazy man who had been in the

 

se ens mine ele ana Stan oas be he Co ~ wee mo .

   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
   

_ the KGB. kept OSWALD in "their field of vision® and |
undoubtedly worked with him. .To Subject it is unthinkable
. that the KGB would miss such an opportunity, since it .
always considers using persons (such as OSWALD) for work —
either. “directly. an intelligence, as an agent, or in any

‘other way "0. ‘inflict damage to the West*, _

. Asked. whether the assaXnation of President KENNEDY -
could be considered as "being damaging to the Woakls Subject _
. answered aa the. affirmative. . - a

 

. "Subject explained that the existence of a government .
. such as the United States is a threat to the Soviet regime... .
. The United. States is an example to the rest of the world. in
(Soviets included) that people can live, survive, and have
-a higher standard of living in a democracy. Therefore, the — .
’ Soviet Union tried, and tries, to cut the U.S. Government _
~ down at every opportunity. Since President KENNEDY was looked
- upen by many.in the Soviet Union as a popular personality, —_ z
- KENNEDY 's personal attraction further raised this feeling ~~ = ¢ .
that living in a democracy had its benefits, to an even higher woe
‘level with the general population of the Soviet Union. . Doe, :

 

When. ‘asked. ar it WAS possible that KGB ‘could or: would

 

 

“+ answered, "yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEV's) it could have",
“Sqndividual who was willing to take risks and adventurous under- >|

. the de¢ision. to carry out such an operation, (the assasination) |
. Gould not have been made by the Chairman of the KGB since he.
. does not possess such authority, and, - therefore, could only -

have been’ made _by- KHRUSHCEBV. himself. : ye an, ws ;

oe “Subject ‘was asked af such an operation might + not: have’ aes
involved a terrific risk which could have possibly resulted - -

involvement been proven by the Americans, Subject felt that...

' even if the Americans did accuse the Soviet Government of ‘
‘complicity. in the assagsination, the Seviet Gevernment would =.
certainly deny such-an American accusation, claiming that the —

-- Soviet Union, would say that the accusation was a provocation,
~ and in all probability would repudiate such American olaims.—

T° ‘underline his point, Subject mentioned that even

- though OSWALD was in the. Soviet Union, and was suspected - :

. because he was in Cuba, nothing happened » and the Soviet. Unien
wasn't accused by the Americans. . codes : ; ot

 

 
