14-00000

~~.

(3) Francisco SLASCO ce los Cuetos. Cur only
trece indicates tat Frencisco BLAL.CO was arrested by tro
Cuban G-2 after having deen cenounced. by Pierre Juan GIit
de ure aiter nis arrest, Buted arove. :

M. March 1964, CIA had an operational relatioaship ¢
. with both of the persons seationcd in the report at the tise
: of the dacitent, la lied ana 1544 both persons nade proposals
: to CIA to assassinate Castro bst in each. dastance they were. . ‘
Qold that CIA and the L3G did not condone such attexpts and é
BO tosmitsents were nade. :

|

: (1) Marfo SALASARRIA Aguiar. There fsa 201.
file on the incividual. POA was requested on subject for i :
use as an operational support asset in an intellaceace

gathering net inside Cuba. We did not desk with hin directly : : \
But coununicated through third parties. In early arch 1964 ff
subject proposed an operation to his contact to assassinate ‘ : “
Castro and asxed for pistols. @ submachine gua equipped wits an % \
a silencer, several .3$0 caliber machine guas, and soae dynamite. _ :

On 9 March 1964 CIA advised his contact to tell subject taat
CIA would not holp hin in this effort. According to CIA
records, subject and his accomplice were arrested in June or
July 2965 and geatenced to 30 years confincment.

 

_ Qy There ts-e°201
file on the individual. We was recruited in Deceader 1963

- to be a source of intelligence within Cuba. At the tine of
his recruitment he told CIA of his plans to assassinate |
Castro and other Cuban government officials. “fe said that
he was one of the principal coaspirators involved ia the
lot, together with iario SALABARRIA Aguiar. Subject requested
TA assistance for the. attcapt. ClA tenediately informed him
that the USG did not condone such atteapts and nO commitments: = PY ‘
were made to assist him. . ma

 

 

 

 

. N. Mid 1964. Some of those mentioned in the report !
wers indeed working for CIA at the tine of thelr arrest. Two
of the subjects reportedly tried to poison Castro but there
is no indication in tho files reviowed that the assigned . |
mission of the group was te assassinate Castro or that the
poison was provided by CIA. oo

. £1) Osvaldo Valentin FIGUEROA Galvez. Our only
_ trace on subjsct is that his nane appeared on a list of ...
visoncrs being held in Cuba at the Guanajay Yrison as of

fay 1971. There is no record of any CLA contact or operational
relationship with him. .

 

Sethe

  

in ne ee en aes

 

pines
® ,
74-00000

(2) fasoa GAL -Alsina. There fis a 231 fhle ca “a
th. inifivicval., Hs was ezeleved ty CIA as “cas of an intedli- : 8
fence rathering net at tie tics of his arrest oa 21 January
Ly5S ana was convicted of espionaze on tenalf of CIA, There

fia no indication in his file tnat he wag airected to assassinate
Castro. ,

 

 

: ‘($) Leopoldina GXAU Atsiza (sister of Ranon GRAU
Alsina). There is a-201 file-on the indivicual. A POA was

granted for her use as @ source of intellicence in her
brother's net oa 17 March 1901.

Losever. $1@ was terminated : ‘
on 18 Novesbor 1963 due to insufficient Intelliscence production f !
and lack of operatioual security. Oa or about 7 Senteader 1954

at was reported that Lesraklana C.AU Alsina was under suspicioa HB é

fm connection with an aborted assassination atteapt on Castro. .

However Leopoicina GRAY Alsina was not arrested uatil 21 January

1965 slong with her brotner. At that tine she was accused of

counterrevolutioasry activities and atteapted assaagsination

; of Castro. A soparate report indicates that the Cuban internal
. Security organs aad allegedly found poisonous substances in

: .. her residence. There is nothing in tae files reviewed to

} . dadicate that Loopoldina was directed by CIA to assassinate

fastre or any record to indicate that the poisons were provided
by Cia.

ba

re ee

(4) Alberto GRAU Sierra. fle is a distant cousin
‘of Leopoldina G2AU Alsina. We was arrested on 7 Septender 1964
for an aborted assassination attenst against Castro. Ne can
find no record of any operational interest in him by CIA.

(5) Alberto CSU Caso. At the tine of July 1966

alleged attespt to poison Castro, subject was working: for bo
_.. gnother U.S. intelligence organization. He was suspected of !
. being a double agent of the Cuban internal security service.

(6) Jesus Manuel CAMPANIONT Sousa.’ There“is a !

201 file on the individual, At tho time of his arrest in t ae

January 1965 he was enployed by CIA as a nonber of an intolli- : ot

- gence net gathering information. There is no indication in
his file that he was directed to assassinate Castro.

   

 

: . (7) We have no identifiable infornation or any
record of CIA contact with Ranon GRAU Slerra, Roinaldo FIGUEROA
Galvez, Felipe ALONSO Scrrera, Jose Manuel RODRIGUEZ Cruz or
Sante de la C. PEREZ Nunes.

 

0. September 1964, "Nothing has been lecated in
our records which indicates CIA involvenent in this incident.

a

L ae: aa . . a wa
\

SERRE

 

Won domme ct
74-00000

we CEEEL]

wee te
a

(1) figinde DIAL Ane. There is a 231 file on.
the individual. Tae CLA was in sporsdic contact with sudject
from approxizately catca dvoQ uatal mid Toul. sie participated
in the gsy of Pins invasion. ihe Ageacy nad no contact with
hia after aid 1951. an
. : (2) Wo found no 4dentifiable information on

Sanuel CAWABALLO Moreno, Ricardo OLLDD Moreno, Luis David
RODRIGUEZ Geatalez, Jose Antonio LOPc2 Kedriguez, or Juan
Lucio MOXALLS Sosa. .

J. 7 April 1963. There dis nothing in records t
revieved to indicate tuat CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information on or
any indication that we ever had contact with Enrique RODRIGUEZ
Valdez, Ricardo LOPEZ Cabrera, Jorge Carlos ESPINOSA Escarles,
er Onorio TORAZS Perdono. :

Ke 26 July 1963. A review of files indicates no
CIA involvencnt in this incident or record of any CIA contact
with the principals mentioned in the report. :

(1) Rene SIGLER-SANCHTZ Evias. The nane of one
. Rene SIGLER appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay
-. Prison, Cuba as of Hay i971.

(2) Jesus MONTES de Oca Cruz. He “is listed in
19$$ as = Communist Party neaber in Cuba and his name appears.
™. ene Bist of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison as of May 1971.

(3) We have no Adentifiable information on —
Bliecer RODRIGUEZ Suarez, Ibrahia MACHIN Hernandez or Oscar
‘ SEBILIA Soria. . .

 

L. 28 September 1963. Nothing has been located in -
records which ties CIA directly to this incident.

 

: (1) We have no identifiable information on
record of operational interest in Orlando Martiniano de la —
CRUZ Sanchez, Juan Israel CAZANAS Leon, Jesus Placido RODRIGUEZ
_ Mosquere, Luis Boltran Federico. HERWANDEZ Gongalez.

 

(2) Pierre Juan DILZ de Ure. There is ea 201
Zile on the indivicual, DICZ is gdentified in our files as  f
a French-born naturalized Cuban citizen. itis file indicates
that he was arrestod by the Cuban G-2 on 17 October 1963.
There is no record of sny operational interest in hia.

8
Sect

etree mi on ne

  
14-00000

: (3) Zernardo IGL: SIA Miater. According to a
‘yeport dated 13 July i+52, a fn3 IGLESLA, possibly icentifiadle
with subject, was active fm anti-Castro organizations. .
; (4) Ruberto COSZALEZ Gonzalez. one Rupert
GONZALEZ, possibly ideatifiable with subject, was sentenced
to 20 years in prison for anti-Castro activities in Cuba.
. He was arrested December 1963. © .
. . We [arly 1962. Although CIA had an operational :
: : relationship wits one of the principals mentioned in the
! yeport, there is notaing in tho files reviewed to indicate '
that he was directed by CIA to assassinate Castro.

a (1) Julio HEPNANDEZ Rojo. There is a 204 file

on the individaal. Subject worxed in the Directorio :
Revolucionario Estudiantil (Gal) against the Castro government .
Gnside Cuba. We had our first contact with hia in Septeabor :
1962 in the U.S. and provided hia with sone material assistance ¢

for parazilitary operations. liis PUA for use in pararilitary - .
activities was granted 3} January 1962 and cancelled 8 tiovenbor
1962. The date of his return to Cuba has not been established.
He was arrested in Cuba in approxinately October 1962 and
subsequently sentenced to 30 years inprisonnent.

 

(2) Raul CAY Hernandez and ‘Raul CAY Gispert.
‘Our only trace is on onc Rsul. CAY, fndicating that. in Decesber
1963 he was suspected of being an agent of the Cuban internal
security service. . ae
. (3) Huaberto GOMEZ Pena. As of September 1962 hot
subject was reportedly orgenizing Cuban resistance groups :
among Masons inside Cuba. .

a - (4). Jose Luis CUERVO Calvo. In 1962 subject
was reported to be srand naster of the Masonic Lodze in Cubs
and leader of anti-Castro ‘lasons. fie was arrestod by the
Cubans on 21 September 1962. a

. %. 13 March 1963. ‘There is no indication in files

_ geviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.
We had sporadic contact with only one of the subjects mentioned
dn tae report. Although vs had several contacts with hin,

he was not under our direction aad our lest contact eccurred
two years prior to th« alleged incident.

   

eer aren neem ent my ARAN eNO edn entree mente wn
 

(C) We have xo ideutifiaole inforzatioan or

wecord of coatact wita Jose A. ASAL Rosaval, Esilio a
QUINTA Goazalet, safael al Vials Haceo, or Jose A. CARCLA
Dias. .

£. July 1961. Althoush CIA had operational
welationsaios wits various inaividuals sentioaed in the
report, over @ long period of tise and relating to a wariety
of operations, there is nothing in files reviewed to indicate

that CIA was favalved in tiie described incident. Tiere is

also notniag in files reviewed to indicate that any of the t
individuals mentioned were directed by CIA-to assassinate

. Castro.

(1) Tony VARONA. There is a 291 file on the
individual. A POA was requested in August 1957 a3 @ source
of infornation on enti-sovernnent activities in Cuba and
later anended for use in political action activities. ile

to and organizations he represented were provided with matorial
i aud €iuancial assistance in prozoting aati-Castro activities -
‘ im Cuba until approximately 1962, There is no indication in
: his Eile that he attenpted to assassinate Castro or sought
Doe, CIA assistance for tnais purpose. mo, . a i
(2) Manuel RAY Rivero. There is a 201 file . :
en the individual, A POA was pranted for use as a political '
actioa agent on 25 October 1960. CIA provided, support to @
wariety of autononous anti-Castro groups, including the oae.
represented by RAY. In July 1966, subject reportedly developed
@ plan to assassinate Castro. This plot was not atClA direction
and no assistance was provided for it. CIA's relationship with

 

gubject ended in 1967.

. (3) -Auroliano SANCIEZ Arango. There is a 701

' @ile on the individual, Subject was first contacted in
September 1948 and used sporadically as a casual iaformant
on Cuban internal politics. A POA was granted on 12 August
4959. for use in political action activitics. He was debricfed
occasionally by CIA but after 1960 he was not used operationally.

   

: (4) Francisco CiLANES Armas. One Francisco , t
CHANES is listed as an official of the Cuban Secret Revolu- :
tionary Servic (SSR) in May 1960. The namo of one Francisco
CHANES appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison
as of May 1972. There is no record sf any CiA contact oF

_ operational reiationship wath subject.

anes canes coerce een

   

 

“SELET

i
ws! oo

 

cee een

  

oie eeverweremvcergrecen fame tag pais aecnervawirenme nememmesci ne sca eae em emgmamne ew ne neat ee eet cs nreemmman 22 Be

AUTRE

 

re sete

coh
 

Pee Wenn eos

 

fos

 

(5S) Alfredo Ruperto FEXNANOTZ Gaze. Subject.
traveled to Yexico, lrazil, aud tie U.S. in approxi::ately
3950 as a Cuban ayont wita the mission of penetrating antic
Castro organizations, d.ere is no record of any “IA coatact
wita or operational relatioaship with subject.

LS
cee ae

(6) Florentino FERNANDEZ Rodriguez. [is nace ; ¢
appears on a list of prisoaers held in Guanajay Prison as ‘
of May 197%.
i (7) Segundo GONZALEZ Genzalez. He is listed as ‘
H an agent of the Cuban kevolutionary Secret Service and special i
agent to javestigate anti-Castro activities in Harianao, Cue .
dn 1959-1960. There is ao rocord of any CIA contact with or ' “4

operatioaal velationsnip with sudject. {

(8) We have no identifiable: {nforzation or any a4 X
fndication of CIA contact with Roberto COSCUYUELA Valcarcel, — : é ~
Orlando ULACIA Valdes, Francisco GIL Cruz, Jose ACE.iA Quintana, . .

Pedro ASCARATE Carbonell, Angel ded TORO Perez, Aurelio HZANANDEZ
Marmol, Jorge VAZQUEZ Fernandez, oF Mario CHASES de Armas.

t
\
F, 13 Septender 1961. There is nothing.in the files. ot \

_ woviewed to Link CIA with this incident. One of those mentioned
dm the roport was once considered for use in paranilitary :
- operations but was not actually used in any operation.

 

(A) Antonio J. FERNANPEZ Rodriguez. There is @
802 file on the individual. A POA was requested. for subject's
~ yse in paramilitary operations on 21 Septeaber 1960. The
J. gequest later cancelled and suoject was not ultinately used
. ., fm any capacity. an .

a (2) There is no irfornation available: on Juan
: dose MARTORE Silva, Manuel BARRERA Lopez, oT Acelio LLERENA
rales. oo

 

  

: G. October 1961. There is nothing in the records
geviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.

. ue (1) Bernardo PARADELA Ybarreche. Our files
indicate that subject's name appeared on a List of Cuban
political prisoners in early 1907 who were to be released
through efforts of the Mexican Red Cross. :

. |
(2) Raul FERNANDEZ Trevejo. Subject's naue |
|

 

appears on & list of prisoners held in Cuba at Guanajay
Prison in May 1971. . :

 

onal amet “ coon o

6

SECiEI

   

 

for
14-00000

 

B. Karch 19$.. A cuzber of the C.cans centioned ta “
the incident wero iniced exsloysd dy Ch48 Aletcy ta the fiells
of intedlicence collectiooa ans parauaslatarys activities fraanse
Cuba. T.ere ds sataing im the fics Fevicurd to Suastaatsate
that their nission was to assassinate Castro, Sone af those
mentioned were in fact inwolved in clancestine dntiltration
into Cuva for the paryoses of catering intchifgzence aad
esrryiag out paraailitary activities ia a carch 1361 sission.

(i) Nuzderto SORE Marin, There is a 201 file
om the individual, la soveaber 1500 SGAl,a disaffected Cuban i .
governsent caployee, contacted a Cutan working on our behalf

‘ and alvised his of his desire to wors atainst the Castro

1 goveraaeat. val Decenaber 1950 Scal was placed uncer house . .

i arrest by the Cuban covernaent but escaped with the assistance ,

.. | @€ umidentified sriends on ch Leceaber 1960, sie was exfiltrated =. -

: to tae iliaal area, witaout CIA involverent, on 19 February 1962. ; \
He was net by a CIA case officer on 2 carch 196). and debriefed . nF
on his activities in Cuba. A Provistonal Operational Approval if

: (POAy was requested for his use as a9 inteliicence source and : :

: gubsequentiy granted in March 1961, ie was met again by a Hl i

; CIA case officer on $ Hazch 1961. He returned to Cuba i ;

clandestincly oa or about 12 March 1961 without CIA assistance, : tg \
Shortiy after his return to Cuba he was arrested and taken to zy “

i La Cabana Prison on 11 April 1962. On 20 Aprid 1961 he was

i executed by the Cuban ailitia.

(2) Rogelio GONZALEZ Corcho. There is a 201 { wl
file on the individual. Our files indicate that he was i

Secretary General of the Revolutionary Recuperation Movement :
WAR} in May 1960. ile was granted a POA for contact and — ie
assesssent on i July 1960.. In August 1960 he was. net by @ . “4 eee
“GEA case officer in the Washington area to be debriecfed. He : 1
was subsequeatly trained by CIA in radio comaunications and rn
paranilitary operations. lle was infiltrated into Cuba on y 4 a
| 6 Septenber 1960 as part ‘of @ CIA paranilitary operation. He

   

was provided with funds, arns, and explosives. In March 1961
ooo . he was instructed to step up paramilitary operations in Northern
“ ‘, Cuba. Ile was captured on or about 19 March 1961 and was executed

 

20 April 1961 by Cuban militiamen st La Cabana Prison.

ile on the individual. He was granted a POA for use in
ranilitary operations on 29 November 1960. On or about

{
(3) Manuel Lorenzo PUIG Miyar, There isa 202 |
aearch Loe) he vas captured and executed on 18 April 1961.

.
SECRET

 

 

“ |
eee mere yeennrennernnes te conereene ate ener sae onset BR te anrerae oee hemeeeaqammenanenatin fetuses tn eet ARYA RS teat en =~ .

 

een
oy
hoa toaed-t0327

é woe . >

 

.
!
i
1
ae

: (
posers ‘ :

: ob <
a i
: MENIRASIUM FOR: The Review Staff j
} ATTENTION: Mr. Welter Slder . . (
VIA: SA/DDO (John Waller) . U /
SUBJECT: Docwsentation of Castro Assassination Flets “4

REFERENCE: Review Staff 75/1696

Y

1. Per reforent request, we have conducted a review of our
files on inciJeats and indivisuals mentioned in the report gives
by Fidel Castro to Senstor Hecovern. This neaoranius contains j
the rosults of our traces on the alleeed assassination plots and i .
the Cuban individuals acntioned in the report. It nust be borne :

dm aind thet our files are keyed prinarily to nanes of individuals
and not by incidents or plots, thoreby naking the retriewal process
difficult, ‘io project file bearing specifically on the subject of
assassination has boen located. ionetheless, what follows is keyed
te the cnronological order of the plots us described in Castro's
report. | ‘ .

a

  

. _ fie Mid 1960. Nothing has been located in records which
ties CIA y to this incident.

 

(1) Armando CUBRIA Ramos. According to CIA traces, . é
. CUBRIA was a long-time sabotace expert and nenber of Castro's 26th :
ef July Movenent until 1950, when he apparently turned on Castre.
He was arrested in 1960 for organizing undergrouad activity
-. against the Castro regine and was sentenced to 30 years inprison- : ee
mont for conspiracy. There is no record of CIA contact with CUSRIA. : : rare

(2) Mario TAULER Sacue. Ite was arrested on 12 July
1960 ia Havana where he was caught unloading arns ¢landestinely
’ Gatroduced into Cuba. There is no record of CIA contact with him.

82, IMPDET
. CL'BY: 0S9228

  

wee erence ements eaoupeta a

  

re
i
74-00000

bmi

preemie ae

any :

(4) Senesto :scKICULE Navarette. ‘Our only
record of subject ansicates buat he was tuvolved 4n ;sra-
ailitary activities tor CLA.

($) Gaspar vosingues TXHUEBA Verona, There is

@ 201 file on tie individual. Jo vas eranted @ PUA 15 tarch
1961 for use as a legal traveler to Cuss aad support azeat
fm intellisence coilectioa aad parasilitary operations. se
was trained in intebliseace gatacring an2 comzuaications
techniques. ie was arrested 3 April lyGh by tue Cusaa Ge2,
Cozetior with 600 other prisoners. lie was executed 19 Apria
396) at La Cabana Prison.

(6) Lufento Jose FERNANDEZ Ortega. There is a
201 file on the indivicusl., ‘acre is no haowa CIA. involveneat
with subject. A one-tice Chief of the Cudan National Secret
Police, he vas arrested on truaped-up charges in April 1962.
He was executed on 20 April 196) together with lusberte SORT

Mario and otaers.

(7) Rafsel DIAZ Hanscom. There is a 201 file —
ea the individual. A POA was granted 25 January 1961 for
use in intollisence collection and paranilitary operations.
Ye received intelligence and paramilitary training. ile was
Gavolved in the Harch 1961 CIA paranilitary operation and

was captured by the Cubans. te was executed on 20 April 1961.

(8) Gabriel RIANO Zequeiro. One Gabriel RIANO
appeared on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison as of
May 1971. There is no known Agency connection with RIANO.

(9) We have no identifiable inforastion or

Qudication of CTA invoivenent with Dionisio ACUSTA Hornandet;
Oreste FRIAS Roque; Eduardo LENUS Perez; Narciso PERALTA Soto;

er Pedro de CESPEDE Coapany.

C. June 1961. Nothing has been located in records

“which ties CIA to this incident.
(1) Juan BASIGALUPE Hornedo. We have no pertinent

Adentifiable information on this individuar.
(2) Guillermo COULA (aks CAULA) Ferrer. We have

“pe pertinent identifiable informations on th>s ‘individual.

(3) Higinfo MENENDEZ Beltran. His nemo appeared
en @ list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison in Pinar del Ric,

guise There is no indication he had any relationship with

 

rd

"tenet

cence Se sie eens are ne tng, ones 7

ko:
i

{ .
‘

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

. nn

remementanremecncen tn e+ Sone

ree

- D. July Boek. Sese of tle Iindivilsals nextioned
fim the re;ort were anceea ennacyee vy Un18 Aceicy tn paras
military actavsties carectca e:aics: Cura. There is no
confiruetion in tie vecorcs reviewed tnat their mission was
assassination of Castro.

Q) fatlto Adolfo RIVERO Caro. Tiere is @ 261
file on this individual. ie was granted a POA 39 January 1961
for support of parasilitery operations against Cuba. fie was
Clandestinely intiltrated into Cuba in a CIA oyeration oa
3 Wares JsGl. ine was arrested on or atout 9 tarch 19¢1. As ¢
of November 1972 he was bolicved to be held nrisoner in Cuta.

 

 

 

 

(2) Ye is probably identifiable
with Adolfo CONZALL2 Stendors, There is a 231 file on tre

Andividual., An Onerational Anproval (CA) was grantod for his
use in paranilitary operations against Cuss. lie worked as a
radio operator for infiltration teeas. tie left Cuba via the
Chilean Esbassy and traveled ‘oxico/Panana/Chile. fie later
deft Chite for Honduras. There hes deen no contact with hia
since 1962.

(3) Jorge GARCIA Rubie Caro, There is a 202
file on the individual. A POA was granted 30 January 1961
for use in supporting paramilitary operations, le was
in€iltrated into Cuba in a CIA onerstion on $ Narch 1961.
He was arrested on or about 9 Hay 1961.

 

 

‘ (4) There is a
202 file on the individual, Tle was working for CIA at the

gime of his arrest on 9 August 1961. First recruited in
1960, a POA was granted on S$ January 1961 for use in para-
military operations. There is no information contained in
the filos reviewed which indicate he was involved in assassi-
astion attenpts.

 

 

 

There is a 201 file on

 

sy
the individual. He was recruited in 1960 for use in intelligence

gathering. In Septeabor 1960 ho was trained by CIA in paramilitary
operations and infiltrated into Cuba on 29 September 1960, when
he began organizing resistance groups at CIA dircetion. He

- geturned to the U.S. in February 1961 for debriefing and

returned to Cube i.-Msy 1961. In July 1951 he ropertéed that
sabotage operations were being planned for 26 July i50k. A
Cuban refugee confirmed his arrest in July 1961. There is no
Anformation in the files reviewed to indicate that he was
directed to attempt to assassinate Castro.

4

. 8 “te
a

*SECTET

 

 

 

 

So af. Dee ce

 
