13-00000

i

MEMORANDUM

March 20, 1996 GIA HAS NO OBJECTION +:
OR AVON AND/OR

To: . Review Board THis DOCUMENT

cc: David Marwell

   

CIA Team
From: T. Jeremy G N ;
Subject: Board Guidelines on Rel do\ LA Officer Names

iS

fe
i

The Staff understands the Review Board to ‘accept the following general guidelines on
the release of true names of CIA officers: .

When the true name of a CIA officer (i.e. past or present employee of CIA) appears in a
document, the Board will bring to its review a presumption that the true name will be.
released. In order to overcome this presumption of release, CIA must provide evidence
demonstrating that release of the name would be harmful. In order to meet its burden .
of proving harm, CIA must tailor the evidence to satisfy one of the three categories
identified in Part I (below). However, when the name of an officer is of such
importance that the public interest would not be served in postponing a namé, the
Board may release the true name consistent with the principles identified in Part I
(below). ;

Part I. Categories of Officers.

1. Living officers. For living (present or former) officers, CLA must prove that -

_ {a) the officer is living outside the United States (or reasonably is expected to
tTeside or travel outside the United States in the foreseeable future); (b) the officer
is either working or is retired under cover; and (c) the officer objects to the
release of his or her true name. If CIA satisfies this burden, the Board.
presumptively (see Part If below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the
officer’s true name until the year 2010.

2. Where current status of former officer is unknown. Where CIA has been

unable to contact the former officer because his or her location is unknown, CIA

must present a good faith showing that reasonable attempts have been made to

locate the officer. If the Board is convinced that CLA has made a good faith

showing that it was unable to locate the former officer, the Board will postpone
“ ‘the true name until June 1, 1997. However, the Board may postpone the true
13-00000

name beyond June 1, 1997, if CLA provides to the Board, prior to May 1, 1997,
additional evidence that satisfies the criteria of either category 1 (above) or_~’
category 3 (below).

3. Names having effect on current intelligence interests. If CLA believes that
the release of a true name may compromise currently existing intelligence
operations or might otherwise cause an identifiable harm, it must provide
evidence that: (a) the officer currently is engaged in clandestine activities; (b) the
release of the true name would compromise ongoing intelligence operations or
would compromise operations with current intelligence value; (c) the release of

_ the true name would reasonably be expected to cause significant harm foa living

person (in uding family members), or (d) the release of the true name would
cause a significant harm to the national security or the foreign relations of the
United States. If CLA satisfies this burden, the Board presumptively (see Part I
below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the true name until 2010 or until
such other date as CIA reasonably shows to be a date on which the release could
be made without causing harm.

Paxt IL. Names of Officers Who Are Important to the Assassination Story.

The Board presumptively will postpone the release.of names consistent with
categories 1-3 of Part I. However, for certain persons whose names appear ina
context that is important to the assassination story, the Board may nevertheless
vote to release the true name. In all such instances, the Board will notify CIA of
the importance of such a person and provide CIA with the opportunity to
provide additional information in support of postponing the release of the
names. These names shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, with due
consideration being given to the importance of the person to the assassination
story and such evidence of harm as CIA may provide.
13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

8 March 1986

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harellson
Jotin Pereira

SUBJECT: JFK - March 18 Board Meeting

 

REFERENCE:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk ff sd

NOTE FOR: /@ OCI
DCI
@ DCI
FROM:
DATE: 03/08/96 02:50:39 PM
SUBJECT: JFK - March 18 Board Meeting

 

 

| have been informed tha _Will be attending the next JFK Board meeting. If this is the case, it would seem that Jeff should
go as well.

Two issues need to be discussed with the Board: stations and cover employees.

1. Jeff and the Board agreed in principal to a "window" in which all stations would be opened{__| Of course, if
there are particular stations which need to be exempted from this the Board will consider it upon the presentation of substantive
evidence.

- HRG and the Board think this is a good idea that would enable them to avoid raising potential appeals every month
4 needs to be signed onto this idea.

- Jeff, last month, presented additional information on’ Jeff and Dave should be
prepared to answer questions or provide more information so that the Board will agree to protect these stations.

 

 

 

 

2. The Board recently released the names of 16'tover employees. An appeal is being prepared (or sol am tld}. The
thirty days runs on March 18. We need to finalize with the Board how to handle this issue. At the last meeting the Board agreed that
this was a really important decision, but that they were not getting the information they need to make the right decision. At the last
meeting, the Board intimated that they might be willing to delay this release, if CIA and the Board could come to a mutually agreeable
way to deal with cover employees. | understood from Jeff that this is an issue that CIA will appeal on just the principal. if this is true,
the Board should understand what our ultimate position is on this, but that we are willing to cooperate with them to find a suitable
alternative (using pseudos or generic descriptions like "case officer")

3. ( will be out all next week but Barry HarellsonfHRG (30292) and John Pereira(CSt) (30373) will be happy to fill you
in on the details. Barry will be contactingy ext week to find out how the March 18 meeting will be handled.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY.
13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

 

From the Desk o

 

 

NOTE FOR: i! bo

; 00
FROM: fo)
DATE: 03/04/96 09:26:53 AM
SUBJECT: JFK - Central Cover appeat

The General Counsel and | met with the JFK Review Board on Friday and discussed, among other things, how to deal with the potential
public release of the identities of former employees retired under cover. The Board clearly wants to do the right thing here, but they feel
they are not getting enough information to make that decision.

Jeremy Gunn (JFK Board's General Counsel) will soon provided me with some of the Board's suggestions on how to deal with this which |
will pass on te you (including how to deal with Whitten). { would at the very least like to be able suggest that we attempt contact again
(either through CIA or the Board) with those tetirees who have not yet responded to our letter. Of course, any suggestions you have at
this point will be-extremely helpful. My sense is that this issue of protecting retirees is something everyone at CIA will want to appeal
just on the principal of it, but that we should do everything possible to avoid an appeal. {Until we work out an agreement with the Board,
you should continue to prepare that appeal you are drafting] -

tn the meantime, can you please provided me the following figures:

1. The-# of people we sent letters to regarding the potential Board releases. {isn't it 1507 and the following breakdown if

- available: ,

-# living abroad
- # of those retired under cover vs. those whose cover has been rolled back or lifted
- # of those who still work for us in covertlovert capacity
2. The # of responses we received to date.
3. The # of responses to date requesting that we don't release.
4. The # of responses to date saying that they didn't care.
[realize you are all out of the office. these days, but | would appreciate getting this as soon as you can. Thanks.
cet: J. Barry Harrelson

Eleanor E. Neiman @ DO
Frederick Wickham @ 00

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

Yo MUN 4b.du faa cue

 

AnaLY

 

uu.
10
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Strect NW - 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457
December 11, 1995 . CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
. ATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
BY FACSIMILE
Mr. John Pereira
Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intellipence Agency —
Washington, DC 20505

Dear John:

As Mary and | discussed with Barry late last Friday, CIA’s long-awaited response to
ARRB’s request for evidence about the true names to be considered at tomorrow's
Board mecting was disappointing and adequate. For several months, the Board has,
been encouraged by the C1A to expect a comprehensive presentation of specific

' evidence relating to its desire to protect the true names of CLA employees. The Board

has delayed action on hundreds of assassination records in anticipation of this evidence.
We are frankly concerned not only by the umpact the CLA‘s action will have on our
work, but also by the fact that we feel we have been mislead by the Agency in this
instance.

We urge ‘your full compliance with our request in time tor tomorrow‘s meeting.
Sincerely yours,

avid G. Marwell

Executive Director

  

 

Boaro Memscas: Juha AH. Tunneim, Chait - Henry & Grath> Kermit Lo Hail > William Lo Joyce + Anna K. Netsan
Executive Duaccror. David G Marwell
13-00000

SECRET

11 December 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: . Briefing of JFK Board Staff: Cover

1. On 1 December} Barry Gibson, Deputy Chief of. the
Office of Central Cover, briefed the Executive Director of
the Assassinations Records Review Board and other Board
staff members. Also participating from cra wer
and Eleanor Neiman of IMS; ‘oce;

Harrelson and I from HRG.

 

2. The focus of the briefing was on the need to protect
the names of former Agency employees that appeared in the
JFK records. Gibson discussed the risks involved for people
who retired under cover if they were identified in the
public record as former CIA employees. He discussed the
efforts made by his office to obtain written statements from
the more than 100 individuals whose names appear.

3. The purpose of the briefing was. to assist the Board
in its review of names when it meets ‘on“i2<13 December.{ The
Agency was asked in particular to present, in writing,
evidence of risk. for each of the names that will be
discussed at the Board's meeting.

ar
John F. Pereira

 

 

 

CL BY: a

CL FEASON: Cen ake SE
DECLON: AZ.

DRV FROM: REE

 

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET JSF re

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review ‘Group

FROM: Fredrick C. Wickham, Ire
. DO, Focal Point for ARRB
SUBJECT: , . position on Release of. Cryptonyns; Country
Designators, Action ‘Indicators. and Employee True

Names

During. the period since the ARRB last met, ‘the DO has
considered the four issues listed below that have not yet been
addressed with the Board. These issues appear throughout the JFK
collection and by stating: our position up front we hope to
facilitate the Board’s review and to reach an agreement. that will -
be mutually satisfying to the Board and the Agency.

Cryptonyms ~- Except for cryptonyms related to °
operational assets or activities involving Mexico or Miami,
the Agency will release the main component of cryptonyms and
withhold only the two-letter digraph. Treating cryptonyms
in this manner will: protect the nationalities of individuals ©
and operations that are not pertinent to Oswald or the JFK >
investigation and render an easier reading of the written ~
material.

Country File Designators - We will delete the first
element of operational activity and operational interest
files in those instances when the credibility of the
narrative is not affected. The first element of the file
number corresponds to the alphabetical position of the
country name which is easily discernible, whereas the
subsequent two elements relate to type of activity or
interest and specific subject.

Action Indicator (Slug) Lines - Generally, we will

release the entire action indicator line of a document.
Occasionally, however, we will withhold portions when the

_ CL BY {0695930 4
- si . . ®. DECL OADR™ o>
DRV HUM 4-82

SECRET
 

104-10332-10006)_

. wv
. - ; CONFIDENTIAL Cle
CRO eM t Aa\ Ww
, Nowe s
7 January 1994 Cale a )

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
FROM: Bryant Rogers
SUBJECT: MEETING with

 

REFERENCE:

On 6 Jan we met wit ms the D0 te discuss HRG concerns with regard to CIA's contacts in the 60's with well
known Cubans and Cuban Organizations:

The outcome of this discussion was that the DO agrees that we can release the.names of those major players with whom CIA
worked with as fong as we stay within the 60-63 time frame, with some overlap into 1964 for continuity, when needed. We then
discussed our relationships with major anti-Castro organizations. It was agreed that we could release the fact that as a funding vehicle
for the US Govt, CIA provided support including funding in general terms. In soma cases we may find it necessary to reveal gross ballpark
figures for annual budgets. The DO would prefer that we continue to protect specific funding amounts where possible. They were
specifically concerned about releasing specific amounts paid to individuals or families of Bay of Pigs members where individuals could
claim that one was paid more than another. In supporting these organizations it was acknowledged by the DO that we could release
generic operational activities such as publishing journals or financing goodwill tours by prominent exile Cubans te Latin America The DO
reminded us that in.reviewing these relationships with Cubans and organizations, it was important to protect CIA personnel, agents and
assets and any specifics on tradecraft. ,

When asked about Bay of Pigs training sites, Linda felt that the actual location should still be protected in spite of the fact that
they have been mentioned in open literature.

With regard to 00 location numbers {19 for Cuba) she thought this was OK for the 60-63 time frame but would check with LA
Div. She had no problem with the release of the Bell location in cables since it was no longer used.

ce: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA
Richard D. Kovar-Y- @ DA
John F. Pereira @ DA

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Cryptonyms, Country Designators, Action
Indicators and Employee True Names

context identifies a source or a . relationship with a
specific liaison service.

True Names of Staff Employees ~ In most instances we
will release names’ of employees who have retired in an overt

status, and were serving in Headquarters when cited in a
document. We will continue to protect the true names of
employees cited as serving in a field position. References
to field personnel in true name are uncommon, however, since

' pseudonyms are normally used in _ correspondence between
Headquarters and the field. .

 

?

bcccge Wickham, Jr.

 

 

2

SECRET
13-00000 _

 

SECRET
aN vember (1995 aa

we? . mk .

MEMORANDUM FOR: ' Jeremy Gunn,
ARRB Staff

FROM: Barry Harrelson, ,

- CIS/CSI/HRG ae
SUBJECT: . _ Issues re Cryptonyms, Country

Designators, Action Indicators and
Employee True Names (U)

Attached is memorandum from the DO Focal. Point. for the
ARRB addressing the release of cryptonyms, country’ .
designators, action indicators and employee true names. ‘The
memoranduni is intended to provide guidance to you and your
staff and complements information provided in previous
discussions. Ellie and I welcome the opportunity to discuss
these issues with your ‘staff. (0) .

\

 

 

 

Attachment

Unclassified When Separated
From Attachment.

SECRET

 

 
