13-00000

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

13-00000

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

DISPATCH

CONTINUATION OF : _ CLASSIFICATION -_ H SYMBOL AND NUMBER :
SEQ.RET | HMMA - 39809

 

2, The LIEMBRACES feve suryeilied| faite often, and only one
unusual contact wag noted That. was a three/hour luncheon with an
‘ » Maximd SIMPSON Grinberg / a foreign-correspondent
in Mexico for the magazine Medicd Moderno.”Generally speaking,
_ aves the Babassy—during the working day alone on his errands, rather
than with another Eq employee, which is more often the rule with
the other officers. us - goes with his wife on errands during
the lunch hour or in the afternoon before returning to the Embassy.
These errands are on personal business such as to the furniture store ,
super market, optics, doctor, etc} but also on business, such as to
pookstores. [_|@ays are very long, as can be seen from the attached
Loge

 

 

 

 

 

3. While lave very busy and have many contacts, they

do not seem to make ¢losé personal friends, and the persons with whom they

- are in contact appear almost exclusively to be business contacts. The
Station has been unable to lecate any person who might make a good access
agent to None of the Station's agents mentioned in paragraph 6 of
HMMA-38920 were close to The closest companion would be the Subject
of 201-860095. The Station is reporting separately on its attempts to
develop and recruit this person.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| . .

4, The Station has even considered approaching maid,
especially when it became known she was so unhappy ér lot as a
servant. However, since the maid almost never leaves the apartment and
she is virtually inaccessible, the Station has been unsuccessful in
having any asset establish any degree of rapport with her, although a.
contact of LITAINT-2 has been able to engage her in telephone contact |
and hopes to date her eventually. oo

5. Since the Station believes that is almost entirely
dedicated to press affairs, and no really ¢ access agents are in |
ae ote Station will not make a priority effort to develop an entre into
circle except via the operatibn now underway to recruit 201-860095..
If this operation is successful, the Station would have an excellent asset
in frequent aL with for albetter personal. assessment and

 

 

 

 

information ssignment Until this.
type of information becomes available, however, the Station believes it
has identified ere as almost ely and we have been unable
to detect any bility data on either his wife.

 

2 ‘a a“
fa ooo 2 ge a 2
sie I, SCALETIT

ree

CLASSIFICATION

 

 

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET. -

 
 

404-10437-10091

Bees

 

 

Pa . NS _GUSSIFICATION Ro PROCESSING ACTION
DISPATCH SECRET |
MARKED FOR INDEXING
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division NO INDEXING REQUIRED ot
pat ONLY QUALIFIED DESK ‘ i
Chief of Station, WH, CAN JUDGE INDEXING. 4 4”

 

FROM 7 4 ¥
Chief of Station, Mexico City 94 1 ee
SUBJECT ao
D Target stuay: | Zz fé

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

 

 

 

 

References: HMMA~38920, 25 May 1970, Previous Target Study
* HMMA-39755, November 1970, Details of Cuba Month
UPAA-2430, 22 October 1970, and related correspo
: concerning Miami Station Contact with
relatives in Miami
ie

Forwarded under separate cover is the up-dated Target Study
d his

 

 

wife be.

As is clear from the attached study and the log of activities a
during October 1970, is extremely busy, has many contacts, and is .
probably one of the more accessible members of the Cuban Embassy. On

the other hand, he is so busy with his overt acti .

press matters, and handling the Ouban Embassy side hat

the Station does not believe he has practically any time free for intelli-

ence assignments, (Since the arrival of the Cultural Attache in. © 0 |
has dropped all cultural activities. He no longer
handles thd | He is on the phone with

or visiting the| offices several times each day. { He
al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bs ions to publications (magazines and newspapers)

eee the United States and Letin American countries =
Leen e é@rs books from various bookstores in Mexico City. He also = «= -y
handles the press mater: film, coming to Mexico vie Q
commercial flights from epresentative in Peru. He >
orders photographic and other related supplies in Mexico and New York, Ey
and handles visas for newsmen does
lot to hel las he does not have his own secretary. As can be seen =

from the attac log, twice he dictated a cable over the phone for her ts ;
type for his signature. It is believed that when she returns in the
afternoon to the Embassy with it is to help hin.

 

 

 

 

) — : . 2 Combinueds see
Attachment : oo mo
/ Target Study u/s/c
wb weet
Distribution: :
V Orig. & 1 - Chief, WHD (left half, h/w; right half, u/s/c) (ett., u/s/c)
IE. “1 - COS, WH/Miamt (left half, h/w; right half, u/s/c) (att., u/s/c)

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER . DATE
att hy S i HMMA - 39809 2 December 1970

CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER

03-3376
secret | pehoot rm

 

 

al&k 834
eai-sen oe

    

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
