13-00000

  
     

: TED!
foe must refer to Cuban Cqngal Euscblo AZCUE, whe let:
te, ~ : Mexico for Cuba on permanent transfer on 13 November -

1963, four days before the agsasaination, AZGUE had
. been in Mexico fer cightoen years and it wae known to us
a9 early ae September $963 that AZGUE wea te be
 gepieced, His replacement did arrive in September. —
AZGUE was scheduled te lowre in October but did not
leave until 19 November. :

We do nck know who might have told OSWALD that
Bo AZCUE or any other Cuban had been or waste be replaced, =
OO aa ae

   

through tte own faciittien. All of our soarces have been: ;

queried for further information but none has been

developed, Neither pra- nar anti-CASTRO persons or - ee
groupe have produced what we regard a9 hard information,  .- >

prmereemrmenn  a as t

Lappe

42, Wa can only guess why Silvia DURAN described

A
\ : OSWALD as a blomie, Perhape his complecdon seemed
MG light to her, compared with thet of most Latin Americans,
An When she was arrested, she had not seen OSWALD for
a | about two months, bet apperently she had noted him as
at . & blonde in her Coneular reeorde, ,

  
 

 

Distribution:

 

a Original & 2 - Addressee esa

. _ i tes Sag :
+ oyna smcmoosienis Feb:

, Prepared by C/WH/3.)

\

:

 
13-0000

 

  
 
  

   

PROCESSING ACTION

     

(CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

 

 
   
 
 
    
  
   
    
    
      

MARKED FOR WIDEXING

 

 

Chief of Station, Mexico City

 

SUBJECT . _ it
ZRTEAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Please transmit the attached envelope to Fletcher M. KNIGHT only.

SF "Willard G, CURTIS

- - REPRO oe
a PROMBITED ewe tes

cee Qitl en? 3¢4er™

SB -— REPRODUETION
<= aa

3- WH, w/att

      

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: DATE -

      
   

25 October
HQS FILE NUMBER

270 /—

HMMA-~22390

= CLASSIFICATION 7

  

 

 

  

9003577 fe
: ; PAGE
ce core

   

 
 

 

- RePRooUEGy
Peter

  

qo PRs
| MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. 3. Leo Raskin
SUBIRCT: , ” Infuensstion Developed by CIA gathe —

. Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD ia . an

    

tas nativity af hee Hervey COWALD Oh Ding
the period September 23 te Gctdber 3, 1963, i.

as The second paragraph of your letter raises a question
with regerd te reports on current avpecta of investigation in
Mextes, or concerning Mexicans leads in the CSWALD cage.

will be in the near foture, af the details of the outeomne of
thet investigation. .

3. CIA te cooperating very closely with the 7B1 inthe ;
development of ancther Mexican lead, as is probably abrendy =
heown te the Commission. Hiathe ceurse of this couperation,
‘GIA develope original, substantive material, % is cer Latention

 

! Pack 9 7
— - UUU3573 we so

 
i Anabee ‘g003}

 

CA perp tiintinn
soe a ‘Ss; Way tthe goes
: . : C : : V7 x . ~ fame

ae ClF | 7
a sAssrom/ou/3 etek — XRAZ- DO F772 a

aoe

 
 

: . Mr. Stern March 27, 1964

: Files oo ; : ; “ .
MEDPANDU RES yn
. ss My Ravin eraTeihy

PROL : S.A. Stem 0 ** PROWANTED -

' ‘SUBJECT: CIA FLLo on Oswala .

Today, Friday, March 27, 195%, I mot ot CIA headquarters with
lie. Rocea, to review the CIA file on Les Harvey Oswald. Tue file
-conteins those materials furnished to us previously by CIA. In
addition, 1t. contains the following materials:

a. Cable reports from the CIA station in Mexico of Novenber

: . 22 and 23, 1963 relating to photographs of a person who hed visited -

! the Cuban ond Soviet Erbassics in Mexico city during October and ot
Po Novenber. 1953; and reports on these cables furnished on Noverber an

| : 23 by CIA to the Secret Service. These messaces era accurately ,
uo : parophrased in the attachments to the CIA memorandum of March 2h,

1954 (Comm sation Document /GTh).

i

i)

be Cable of October 10 from CIA Noxtico City station to CIA ; |

. headquarters reporting on Oswald contact at Soviet Embassy, and :

- October 10, 1963 message from CIA headquarters to Mexico City station — t

. of background infomation on Oswald. These messages are accurately SG
Te xeported in the CIA momorandum of January 31, 19dh. 7 |
i. ;
|

! I did not review any materinls later than November 23, 1963.

_ Mr. Rocea also showed me the "printout" of the references to . |
Oswald documents in the CIA clectronic data storage system. There
was no item listed which we have not been Given cither in full text
or paraphrased.

When I evidenced an interest in the CIA clectronic sata
“processing system, ir. Rocca said that he vould arrange a detailed
explanation at a future visit. . . %

mu cr
a

         

- PrTED

QO O2PIRYG

 

- | wu3572 some fog eo

 
13-90000

 

 

to report the details to the Comsalssion concurreatly with what-
ever ig madw available to the Commission by the FSi,

4, The following replia are eyed to the numeration of
yorer letter of February 10:

‘he We are not ta a position to supply coplee of
telegrams sent between the Soviet Embassive tp -

‘Washington and Mexico City.

Re Transtations of the twe poles interrogation — 7
reperts.af Silvia DURAN are being forwarded te the e.
Conuminsion under saparate cover.

 

seven of our report, on pages four axl
fae te kane on the thureseds of Bete DIDAN and
menage that OSWALD wae at the Consulate et least once
after Bie initiel visit, and that this later vielt was en
the alternoun of a day on which the Cuban Canal tale~
puoned the Soviet Comulaie about OSWALD 's view
pecblem, This may woll have been 23 September, nt
we cannct bs certein of thie conclusion,

& We éo act heow whether Cubes Consulate
sechivee contained information oa OSWALD ante«
: dating hin September-Octeber 1963 visit, From the
hoo ; ptatermests of Slivia DURAN, ome could conchae that
7 sbe hed never heard of CSWALD until he visited the
i Gonsulate in kete September 1963, The file om OSWALD *
which Silvia DURAN mentions is the one she opened gn —
bien at thet Gime and which she lecked up again when
deletion.

  

, * PAGE eet
—_-_o
 

 

sy aa Me ia won bo el

 

  

5, We do net think % would be w

transit vies unlese he first got a Soviet visa. £
frank statements are quife common ia consular oe
practice, as far as we knew, os

6 We bollove that Silvia DURAN's statement thas
OSWALD knew ao ong ie Cuba meant Mterally thet, ant
this would mean that ao one there could sponser him,
vouch for him, or insure thet he would not become 3

Pearse ie Gp the other head, the remark of the :

‘aula te Soe tal oo ning te eth

h Wa Delve that OSWALD both tolaphoned tothe

 

tem wishes ow Zarpeke and finally recovered from Cuban
Consulate files eo he could pase it to the Soviet Consulate, ©
B could alee be thet ho was talking about his Mexice City
hotel addzese which he might have momentarily forgotten
whibe ot the Soviet Consulate.

% he Cuban Consulate and Cubsa Embassy in oe

Mexico Gity are separate offices located in separate

balidings that stand on adjacent iote separated by a .

. Cuban official parking let. The Cuban Consulate ie on

& corner at Marques ated Zamora Etreets and the Embassy
is ab 160 Marques Street. The Soviet Embacsy and . :
Consulate are beth focated in a large mansion with ©

   
 
 

: Lond ,
‘bh TSRe—
COPY 74 F

 
