 

104-10056-10090

a oes,

   

“ . brother Marcos DIAZ Lanz, formerly Chief and Deputy Chief,

 

' .’source is unable to elicit further information from the ‘MC

FROM: ee Raymond A. Warren.

a SUBJECT: ase : SLHORI ZON- 1 Report Mentioning Cuban:

. Agency assisted in thé evacuation of Marcos, and Pedro

- but did not mention any other Cuban exiles by name or give

Po a eevee
: crecyy

 

        
  

; SECRET ee
eae . : a. . oo - a 7 no ~LA/CO/267-7

 

pp/or/9o9

 

“LL NOV

 

INSPECTOR GEMERAL |.

- MEMORANDUM FOR: ~SA/ADDO.

   

Chief, “Latin America Division

 

Minister-Counsellor Statement on the’.
. Assassination of President Kennedy -~

 

REFERENCE: ~~ LA/CO/235-77 Dated 30 September 1977...

oo -1. The referent memorandum reported information from ."—
- a ZRWAHOO intelligence report of.a statement made by the ;
. Minister-Counsellor (MC) of ‘the Cuban Embassy in Kingston, -
Jamaica, on 24 September 1977, that "Cuban exiles such as
DIAZ Lan (fnu) (sic) and others had been involved in the ©
_ assassination of President John F. Kennedy." We believe
that this could refer either to Pedro DIAZ Lanz, or his

 

 

 

 

respectively, of the Cuban Revolutionary: Air Force. Both
entered the U.S. from Cuba as exiles in mid-1959. . Since

that time the DIAZ Lanz brothers reportedly have been a
‘closely associated with, and involved in numerous activities -

with, Frank STURGIS. (aka FIORINI) of Watergate fame. The.

entered the U.S. on his own. Although both were debriefed
by the. Agency, there is no indication that they were, ever
: considered Agency- assets. a

  

 

 

ry ae | queried source for further. infor-s -
mation as promised in paragraph 4 ‘of the reference. The
source said that the MC referred to the Kennedy assassina-
‘tion during a pep talk to party members to maintain good..
security. Further, that the MC said that "recent infor- ——
“mation had arrived" implicating DIAZ Lan (fnu) (sic), 7
former air force officer, in the Kennedy assassination

 

 

 

 

any further details. Although the MC did not identify the
source of his information, source had ~ oe
the impression that the information might have been included:. :

in a cable from the Cuban Ministry. of Foreign Affairs. The

 

‘without jeopardizing his security. : ;
a ° ‘signed ;
- 2s, Raymond A. Warren

 

 

Raymond A. Warren
_cc:. IG Staff . Sot & So, : Cr
SRN ree = cre as ee EB IMPDET,

CRC RET -
Lo a, ont

 

   

 

 

 

 

  
