 

 

 

 

25 November 1963
SUBJECT: Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald
tO : Walter P. HALTIGAN

1, It makes little difference now, but REDWOOD had at one time an
OI interest in Oswald. As soon as I had heard Oswalf's name, I recalled
that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed -- sometime in Summer 1960 --
with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of the 6 Research Section the layéng
on of interview(s) through KUJUMP or other suitable channels. At the
moment I don't recall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family

. were en route to our country of if it was after their arrival.

2. YI remember that Oswald's unusual behavior in the USSR had struck
me from the moment I had read the first ODACID dispatch on him, and I
told my subordinates something amounting to "Don't push too hard to get
the information we need, because this individual looks odd." | We were
particularly interested in the OI Oswald might provide on th¢ Minsk
factory in which he had been employed, on certain sections of the city
itself, and of course we sought the usual BI that might help develop
target personality dossiers.

3. I was phasing into my Li__|cover assignment, and out of KUDOVE, at
the time. Thus, I would have left our country shortly after Oswald's artival.
I do not know what action developed thereafter.

Thomas 8. CASASIN
Addendum

4. As an afterthought, I recall also that at the time I was becoming
increasingly interested in watching develop a pattern that we had discovered
in the course of our bio and research work in 6: the number of Soviet

women marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually
divorcing their spouses and settling down abroad without returning “home.
The AEOCEAN 3 casé was among the first of these, and we eventually turned ©
up something like two dozen similar cases. We established links between
some of these women and the KGB. KUDESK became interested in the developing
trend we had come across, It was partly out of curiosity to learn if
Oswald's wife would actually accompany him to our country, partly out of
interest in Oswald's own exper: d in the U SSR, that we showed operational
intelligence interest in the(tlarvey story.

? T.B.C.

é
 

t

!

|
'

!

i

i

t

‘

t

wf

'

vad

 

 

 

 

* . SECRET

Chief, SR. RYR AT

Chief, uh
| Chief of Station, Paris ae

GPFLOOR + Lee Harvey OSWALD

for information —

o ~4 Ln Lar guat. 2
For the record we forward herewith a semorandugs by’ Thomas B, CASASIN

in which he gives his recollections of SR interest_in Subject following A swrrepe
Subject's return to the United States from the USSR. ORE Ae

4 -

ROBERT G. LAMPRELL

Eacl.

Distribution < a .
eT SR wieneh — OG SS
3 - WE

 

   

    
 

for FOIA Review on wer @i8

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

A .

  
  

CONDUCTED ON—g
[roar ree

»

   

“42 vee 1963 DEC FE 1963

   

 

Awe” pak
ai eS ; : abdicate |
s ECRET RYBAT. ; 01-381 oye
13-00000

 

s

2 _
. ho, pb Lf
, Pom CEG
z meee £ :
€
: .
a
‘ .
as .
‘ e ry
i : i aN
-. -
: , a, g
x
. rae)
; :
:
~ :
i
kh ms :
SECRET / HRG INTERNAL USE ONLY
(working notes - hold in pending file)

Newman phone call to John P. 21/4/1995

Book ready to go to press (Oswald and CIA)

Wanted to give us a “heads up”; not a request to HRG for any
type of action

Will be naming Leon (Leo) Setwaev as source on KGB and
Oswall -- “Setwaev” is a “clandestine” source.

 

 

 

. Also will be including the ‘LI-9| story in his book;

 

considers hima “key” player and important to the story of
Oswald in Mexico City. Has ask the Board to broker a
meeting with CIA to help him Ge identify.

Later in the day Marwell (ARRB) call John P. re a phone call
from Newman.

per Marwell:

Newman seem to think that the “Setwaev” name will cause
waves :

Concern about identifying] in book -- wants CIA's
help in hiding identity; may be feeling some “guilt” s

 

Marwell plans to tell him that it is not an appropriate role
for the ARRB. .

HRG Actions:
John P briefed Ellie (DO review team)

Bob E (OGC) altered 4/24/95
No other action planned
13-00000

ta sot . . a 2 Hpsueend Pyometeaess

Tattach a copy of CIA document number 287-690, memo for record, dated
3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee
Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the.
reverse handwriting in the upper right hand corner that is pertinent to thé
issue at hand. That handwriting appears to be: "Audy Anderson OO on_
Oswald."

I refer you to Mr. Donald Deneselya, a CIA employee in the Contacts
Division in 1962, who told the HSCA in 1978 that he read Anderson's debrief
‘and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today
what he has been saying for 30 years. Don Deneselya does not have a book
and shuns any publicity -- it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get h him to

agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any -
personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it"
because he remembers reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with Don. Then [ would find all
surviving members of CD/OO/Support Branch. It did not take us long to.
figure out that this branch interfaced with the ficld officcs of the Contacts
Division. While this will not tum up a piece of paper, I think you will find
some answers there.

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer, |
and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aired, and
confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. [ doubt if this

is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a note
stating what you find out.

Sincerely,
Dr. John M. Newman

1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113
FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131 -
104-10332-10018

 

Tat LITE +

; December 3, 1993
Memorandum for the Director,
Center for Studies in Intelligence,
Central Intelligence Agency
Attn: Mr. John Pereira .

FAX: 703-243-8343

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon yesterday with Dave Gries and with Joba
Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed by the Agency, and to
respond to John's request for documents which may having bearing on this

issue. ‘

First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency personnel
with whom [have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the
infamous “debrief.” It.strains credibility that the Agency would purposely
persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact it had a copy of it
somewhere in its extensive -- if sometimes sloppy -- records system. It
would have been found by 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;
rather it is whether it occurred in the past and was destroyed.

We can all talk, theorize and argue over what it might mean later. For now
the task at hand is simply to take all necessary steps to find out. I urge
extreme caution in stating flatly that there was no debrief until such steps
have been thoroughly exhausted. I was surprised to find out after the
FRONTLINE documentary aired, for example, that there will be some new

- pieces on this subject in the n not too distant future.

I attach a copy of CIA document number 435-173A, attachment, memo
dated 25 November 1963, by a "T.B.C.", whom I believe might be one Mr.
Tom Comier, possibly a former head of SR6 Branch, Soviet Russia Division,
at the time Lee Harvey Oswald retumed to the US in the Summer of 1962.
T.B.C. stated he discussed the laying on of interviews with Oswald, either
while he was en route or after his arrival. Because T.B.C. made a
typographical error when he typed "1960" instead of "1962", the LISCA
foolishly dismissed the veracity of this entire document.

PT ceat crasqad Remar Tae ere
 

2S November 1963. _

“,

 

SUBJECT: Mr, Lee Harvey Oswald APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992
o eT CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRocRAM

1. It makes little difference now, but Ehad at one ‘time an” a
Of interest in Oswald. As soon ag I had heard OswalB's name, I recalled a
that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed ~~ sometime in Summer.1960 -- (2°, |
with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of “the 6 Research Section the laydng e |
on of interview(s) ehroush or other suitable channels, At the v

moment I don‘t recall if this was discussed while Oswald and-his family Me
were on route to our country of if it was after their arrival ~~

 

- . 4 +

Ze Il vemember that Oswald's wnusual behavior in the USSR had- struck
me from the moment I liad read the first St<te. dispatch on him, and
told my subordinates something amounting to "Don't push toa hard to get
the information we need, because this individual looks odd," } We were
particularly interested in the OF Oswatd might provide on th# Minsk
factory in which ho had been employed, on’ certain sections of the. city
itself, and of course we sought the usual 81 that wight help develop —
target personality dessiers. oe

3. I was phasing into my MEE <<!e0nene, :
tho timo, Thus, I would have left our country shortly after Oswald's artival.
I do not know what action developed thereafter, te

  

|

Addendum
4, As an afterthought, I recall also that at the time I was becoming
increasingly interested in watching develop a pattern that we hadjdiscovered
in the course ef our bio and research work in 6: the number of Soviet

women marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually
divercing their spouses and settling down abroad without returning “home''.
The ee caso was anong the first of these, and we eventually turned -_
up somothing like two dozen similar cases. Wo agtablished links. between

some of these women and the KGB. RRB became interested in the developin
trend wo had come across. ft was partly out of curiosity to lear if :
Oswald's wife would actually accompany him to our country, partly out of
‘faterest in Oswald's own chectlare. in the U SSR, that we showed operational,
intelligence interest in the-flarvey story. we

? + TBC.

e- ft

oe ene vente eee een meen cece ee eee ae le cae

SAd lear :at Seet cased SPEM TATA > “ON SNOHG “HUHOP NEIMAN 2 wo44
rad

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD - oy ¥v
SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSWALD hb oF ALVARADO

aE Aeg west S lads lide

At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI sazised | that the
Bureau had received.a cable last night from tha Legal Ai
Mexico City who is in touch with our representative there. He sntatea we
that our representative hed been inf by ofthe Sex
Nicaraguan Intelligence Service VARADO told him, that
he xecan’ his original story becdudé Of fear of physical. harm; that |
was dein deported: from Hextco te Micars ‘on & December 1963\,

 

a

  
 
     
 

( Y
sentative that Alvarado would ‘be available for
Nicaragua if the United States desired. :

Papich statdd thet the Bureau would like to have him subjected
to a polygraph examination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving
word &s soon aa possible as to vhether ve wil] handle the matter since
if we will not handie it the FEI will have to determine vhnat other steps
might be taken te sae that this is done. I advised Mr. Papich thet I
would check into tha matter, thet I did not know whether ve had available
at this tima a polygraph operator whe could progorly handle this matter
but in any dvent X would Jat him Imow whether this Sgn de «one.

Hecwmesnt Herter nor 2 87-690 a

$e FOM Ravhaw ore Rav aE een
“tant 276 _ Chief, CI/sIa

 
   

      

 

Ass vy fevicw

J ees fersansttoanay

  

cONOUCTED oS MY B76 .
——""-RPARGVED FOR RELEASE 1992
“(Ree Ret 3D COPY CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRA
. 3. pec
20 1-284 943
