74-0000

   

  
   
      
     
 

~. eo COMNE gt Tateste . \
: CARTA D1 JoENTH Tat VERBALE A? a
—Putea UBL. EGU LAO".
Fate ii mids fh Fert: Cie) e Ticats fe ee =
_italiana

wkioha Qo

Stare: eivile LL wn ade
Professions — ered con - =
“= CONMOTATI © ComtRasseaat ( sauienri -

 

nr

Statura: [<4 Be. _
Caperla: ete +
Ocehts A hea. ce cent ste

: Begni parttcolprt: Cie. Babentec|

 

   

 

Beat,

3 cee ee _ Pergo wee
wt i: naw 24 GU 1958 ok comerssatio razyartizio

# ; :

 
 

PANE 3 TPAES TE

 

CARTA D'IDENTHTA: se

. ;
© ase (F clcgrcl tr sme fel aT
Mato 44. . C2194, ne fay sn

 

vertonmita italiara Reatdenta «IRTESTE

       
    

Capetits —.

cot,

DEEDES eee mreennetente + tne emmmnes s oe

Segnt perticobariz fn vee

    

Boma QEL THTCLAPE

Be cabal tee ~_e

 

i: Date: “47 LUE, ay , 8  Povety

 

 

 

 
 

 

   

 

  

 

 

 

   

é
: ~
ww -® .
: te
Triosta 14, 97,10, 100
ceeco fn Prarcesco @ fi tntonda Yeuck neto a.Pricste
sontierto,citisiine ite fano, fred Tem oocanize,rest
i ein Via N.Vattestt? nia, -
Tl corraseritte crerscrs Prancesen,convive 213 indirieso
. suecitate con une carta BPRTONT ,essendo da vari enrd,serarato af
’ : -fetto delle rrorsta reslie RIZTIN learetdina fu richole,2 enni
. STiqui whtterte fn Via vedonmine mn, 24,042 walerata to stesso ha
. rrovy24ate sountmente alcmarteninerte ef 217 Watros tone det »
: an “tre field orrat adultt e indinerdenti.
. Yersa in discrete contiziart{ easnomtche essenda titolare
: ira roeeantoa ner Ta Tavowaniora 23 ser-atues at sicuroce
: om @ mirrestustont Ai eniavdjeita dn aveste Coren Ttatis ne a9,

  

  

™E hvert centi-

vote dr

icavente arrnstino,nel=

   

vive suena serutesjane ad 4 neta now sen

a sepeot end,

weriutseata ree Sslittt acptee il patrinanio,contrade
$ int 4 FS a rubsties wh edate oA whe

Fata 14 mrs 1949 gella lose
atione, In
fi sarrgergta
wes. paeroneahile ai rerta

  
  
  
 
   

 

 

 

—
 

 

 

   

 

 

ms
wt

ee
ATTACHMENT To/oma} 25700

_cuccacna, Franceszo, “son of the late Francesco and of the Late Antoma

. VOUCK, born in Trieste on 12 December 1903, married, Italian citizen,
dronworker, fesiding in Trieste at No. 9-via M, Matteoth. . 7 :

 

Subject resides at the above address with one BERTONI, fnu
{translator's note; obviously mistress) and has been separated from his
wife for many years. Wife is Leopoldina BIZIAN, daughter of the late Michele,
aged 57, who resides in Trieste at No, 31 via Madonnina, Despite the fact that
Subject is separated from his wife he maintains for her support and has also
provided for the education of his three children who are now adults and inde-
pendent, :

Subject lives in discreet economic circumstances eince he is the
owner of a locksmith Shoz-keys located at No. 19 Corso Italia,

Subject possesses good national Sentiments, a political agnostic,
and enjoys a good reputation and is regarded as a serious and correct individual,

Subject has a record for crimes against pa:rimony, assault and resisting
a public official, and drunkness. Subject obtained rehabilitation by the District
Al.orney of Trieste (Précura della Repubblica) with a decree No, 109/49 dated
11 June 1949, "In fact, since 29 September 1939, the date he was relased from
prison, Subject has not been involved in any crime,

Subject is in possession of a Lasvia Passare for Zone B (Yugoslavia)
which is valid untit 11 September 1961, '

|
|
|
!
74-00000

-° . ete

aon?) a +
ATTACHMENT TO ord] - 25700

SABATTI, Giovanni, son of the late Clemente and of the lave Giovanna PROVEDAN,
born. in Bule d'Isiria on 26 December 1905, married, Italian citizen, shop-keeper, .
and residing at No. 5 via Zovenzoni, Trieste, _

. The above has resided in Trieste since 1930 coming to Trieste from
“His place of birth, ‘ : . ‘

 

: . Subject lives at the above Trieste address with his mistress Maria’
DUBAZ, married name ZOPPOLATO, agea 31, housewife, in discreet economic
circumstances as a result of his ownership of the "Caffe-Bar Lloyd" which is
located in Trieste at No. 4 via dett'Orologio, . -

UP, .
Subject is married to Adele Beav daughter of the later Franceses,
aged 45, housewife, who resides a. No. $ Salica Contovello, with whom he has had
awdaughter named Luciana, aged 22, single, who lives wich mother, Subject has
been legally Separated from his wife since 1958,

. ii The archives of the Questura of Trieste indicate that Subject has a
jfrecora for aggravated, thelt, attem ted thett, drunk and disorderly, adultery,
i assault, and assault upon a police officer,

Subject specializes in safe-cracking which he has developed through ;
the use of safe-cracking equi ment including the acetylene torch and on occasion
has effected entry cu his own through burglary (technique: targe holes through walls),

. At this time it does not a pear that Subject frequents underwortd
characters or ambient, Subject has becn classified as amoral und a professional
criminal who has not rehabilitated,

~ : Subject does not appcar tu cake an acuve interest in politics and as
of the present he is in Sympathy witn che leftist parties,

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tile.

* dawn oresnenta wal.
a) TON dy re

   

irg 229 fw indie
late, at ‘nerd: 31, case
riraveto cella sua atija
e2ffé LLOYD" site in cue

 

rroventente tal:

     

cata can te pmorrin rie
Ptarwete capdticioni eros -iche,

 

 

    

   

erercente,er Sropstetunis
Cel’ *Orolecie nate

*
‘ Pe sentuenta con tale = 7 “t Franeescoyat snrt 45,

Bytom tate ha ona

  
 
  
 
 
   

caralinetygy? raciderte in Satits

   

hoatarn mrt Doymabilese

   

  

534 in ead Pa donunetata

drressn tm stain conta,

4:4) forte df tasnatacs

sretlston eta, e@ orieae

@ ed arhtortd

   

te cpata

   
 
 

 

tieeataynan mighirdt:

2
ttn attiversete AL aatgbte

ne tntes

 

 
  

 

       
 
 

 
 

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 
  

RT te . Fa eros BR aN FS
| TOP SEGRET | forra}- Fsr00 Page 2

8 Gericras na furnished with 3 plan by CLARKSON which we
0 “hope will result inva detailed report containing items of interest to RABNEY,
EPCRA uus indicated: ‘bat tliis pian will take thuch time since he will have
~ to develop the plan in ‘such a-manner So as to allay any suspicion,
oO

       

    
 
    
  

   

7. Forwardéd as Attachment c are[DEPIGRAM }races on the
pergong cited above, :

    
    
  
 

Approved: Hugh R, SHERIDAN

" Attachments: 4- A, Background reports (translations and originals)
* Identity Cards
C. (DEPIGRAN races .
Identity (under separate cover)

  
    

f
aA shite
‘Distribution: 3 - Wash, w/attachments A,B,C, and Dobos 842% *4, maya

2 -[-__ |w/attachments A (translations only) and B “

isd

  
      
104-10185-10064

 

Yrs

. ‘RETURN To CIA
ot 0 : Background Uso ~ =,
» Por oo. Do Nei ©
~~ Te, - tend
- 1

   

DPATCe SymkG, Aled NO

22 :
foma]- 25700

mEADQuAeTEES PHENO

CURSE Cate

DISPATCH | TOP SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 Chief, KUDOVE/D | z
“0 ATTENTION: James N, RABNEY . fas’ é - 18/3
- _‘ Chief of Base, 15-3
FROM ~~ 4 aare °
Chief of Station, 17 29 November 1960
AUDET ; _ , a ef 43s — CHECK “x ONE)
LAURICLE © . {|__| matet0 For inven
* . . . NO INDEXING PEQUIFED
ACTION BEQURED : FE INDEXING CAN BE 10DGED
_ FYI. “BY QUALIIED HO DESK ONLY
REFERENCES)

[ora F127 {not sent Headquarters)

“>... Je Forwarded as Attachment A in translation and original Language

“+ are three reports on Giovanni SABATII, Francesco CUCCAGNA, and Guerrine
($-3BERNARDINI which ] obtained from Identity. Forwarded as Ai hment
B are photographs of the identity curds of these persons which flso

obtained from Identity,
53 13-3
2. In reference dispatch{ [commented as follows:

 

a) Accordiig.to Identity, the three individuals mentioned

In the respective reporis are the persons best suited from

4 point of view of ability, reseryedness and experience for
utilization in sensitive operations, He added that he could
‘have provided us with the names of more individuals all of
whom, however, would have presented certain pecullar
problems prejudicial to the successful outcome of this type -
of operation, On this score, being an old police officer,
identity immediately realized that an illegal entry operation
must be in the wind, but did not ask for any details, :

b) In passing the requested information, Identity advised
that he remuins at our disposal for any further details
which might-be needed, If necessary he is personally

~~ willing to perform introductions,

¢) As is evident, the name of Gua VOGRIC (mentioned

by CLARKSON as a possibility based on a casual DEBACON
reference) did not come up. We, therefore, abstained from
making any reference to this person, :

3. It may be advisable to make additiona] checks regarding the personalities
and political leanings of these persons, especially Bernardini,

. 4, CLARKSON nowremembers the name of the individual discussed with
RABNEY, SHERIDAN and MAGONETTI to be CUCCAGNA instead of VOGRIC, However,
it may be also sdvisable for MAGONETTI to obtain a background report on Gus Vogric,
i) . . Do

5. DEPIGRAsI}was queried about these individuals and contributed
practically the Same informiation as MAGONETTI with the exception that Bernardini
is interested in emigrating to Switzerland, that Sabatii's itulianized name is Sabazzi,
Further, that Sabazzi is the proprictor of a Fiat model 1100 which he uses to make
trips to Yugoslavia from Trieste, allegedly for the mushroom trade; also that Sabazzi
is in possession of an Italian passport valid for foreign travel, .
 

Yee

 

iT :

7

a ze
ATTACHMENT TO [OiRA} 25700

BERNARDINI, Guerrino, son ‘of the late Guigi and of the late Ada ORACHEYN,
born in Muggia on 8 July 1914, :marricd, ‘Italian citizen, mechanic, residing
in Triesve at No, 49 via Luigi Pirandetlo.
a e

Subject resides at the above address, in modest economic circum~
stances with his wife Olga GORUP and a son (minor) named Armando, from his
salary as a regulator ~ mechanic for the Sidemar firm of Trieste which was
terminated 8 August 1960. From this date until the present he is unempioyed
since he left on his own accord having expressed an intention to cmigrate to
some foreign country (unidentified)

The archives of the Questura of Trieste indicate that Subject has
a criminal record for crimes committed against patrimony and specifically
aggravated theft perpre.aved many times against dwellings and shops through
the pertoration of large holes or entry from the floor of the dwetling or shop
to be burglarized,

It does not appear that Subject is actively interested in politics,
romever he is in sympathy with leftist parties, When he was detained at the
Coroneo prison Subject was noted for his nationalistic sentimenis and on a
number of occasions had several scuffies or arguments with prisoners of

anti-nationalistic fectings,

Subject is in possession of an Italian passport No. 7860915 vulid
~+ for foreign travel until 21 July 1961. ,

~ jw A
 

 

 

Seen ee gm heme wana vamp

. Pricste 14 26 ottbee 1962
RIRKAQINE Guercine fa Lnicti oe Ai Mrechke™ t4e,nato a Yaugtia 2°8,7.

   

 

1044, cond vata, eittadinn Etelisna, preecanics,ranidenta 2 Trieste in

Via Tuted Pirardel?o ne 4a,

TI sopraseritts BARVARDINT Cuerrine vive all indirizne
au indiecate,in Snadeate eondizicni sconomicha,unitarerte alla se-

 glie GORUP Olea e4 al ficlio Armanda,rinera, oc! ricavato della

suaéattivita 2 ar iustatere woocvarico che sino 271°8.9, 1960 he
Sregtats nresso la ¢itta STP? ai Tricete, Pa tate data infat-
MY il reedetto & Afasncsenate esrerdnal dinecs velonatarierans
te siccera,assenitavente intenztonato di tracferirad alltactern,

  

 

Partd atti di greet MFPicla ef riteva che #} redesixa
& rresiuiicete rem delitt! cortro ¢) ratri-io e svecificstarenta
eteatdi rif velte in chitaciend @ no 4
teenton del biee nel cera e aal eattosunla,

     

 

 

sneke rotiar

Nar poneta of tntsveced atidyrrnets tf nelgtion @ ¢
stufateasMittawta 4) SIRTLRT TNT &
neli,pin wy ctayattarehd detorve

     

ratioca ror Gl nortie’

Zoered sereed

  
   

 

te ne’lsg enreertd sirtie 4el Carnnecsin nits coeactars trarsee

re a vie di fattnzecn elarentt artinardoreld,
Et in negseren te] Trceare res ner Lilotera rn, TAANOTS &

valayatlo sien al Tt tnaylis ht ye

 

 

 
