 

104-414-0067] ,

. Tonal - Office of :gislative Counse]

_his secretary, Michal Shafer, that Maxwell should be in contact.

 

Wednesday - } Decernber 1976

 

‘5. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON In the absence of Elliot
Aaxwell, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, I inforraed
ca
with DOD concerning a visit to their facilities-in Los Angeles and
San Francisco and we will arrange visits to our facilities. Ms. Shafer
said she would pass the message to Maxwell.

6: (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Danny Childs, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, concerning our discussion
yesterday revarding Reserve release letters and the possibility of
a letter from Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) stating Committee
approval of this release and asking that procedures be set up to
transmit future approvals, I told Childs that I thought the Agency -
would oppose establishing such procedures and asked if we could
discuss this before the letter is sent.. Childs then alerted Bill Miller,
Staff Director, to expect a call. :

7. (Confidential ~ GLC) FAA BRIEFING ‘Accompanied the
Director to a briefing of the Defense Subcommittee, House Appropriations
Committee, on the 16 November 1976 Presidential finding. (See
Memorandum for the Record, }

8. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON In the company of Mr. Carpentier,
met with Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, to provide him with comments on the Kessler article
of 26 November 1976 and to discuss several related matters. (See
Mr. Carpentier's Memorandum for the Record. )

 

9. (Confidential - PLC) LIAISON At the request of Py

 

 

 

 

 

 

German Desk/DDO, for her response to a cable from the

 

 

Munich Base, J called Dick Kimmel, Document Control Specialist

for the Joint Atomic Energy Committee, to determine the distribution
of a Committee publication of a statement by former Commissioner
Dixie Lee Ray, Atomic Energy Cornmission, on 6 August 1974 on
uranium enrichment, Kimmel said the publication was of an open
hearing and was given standard distribution including the International
Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. | was so advised and will
cable the field, .

 

~</é69>
