TIAL

SECRET

in Mexico. Several. station assets have recently
travelled to Cuba for intelligence purposes.

12) Panama - the Guardia
Nacional has been ordered to increase its vigilance
‘concerning returnees from Cuba and to-prevent them from
establishing an effective organization. Several recent
returnees from Cuba are being debriefed regarding their
training and contacts, and several CIA assets are
expecting to leave for Cuba in the near future for
training. CIA has increased its personnel assigned to
travel control functions at the Panama City airport,
now permitting a three-man detail for each eight-hour
shift. Station is continuing its pressure on Panamanian
officials to tighten travel controls.

2

'. 13) Uruguay - Station has made arrangements with

‘€O pigeonhole or "lose" applications for good
conduct certificates - which are needed to secure pass-
ports, and must be renewed every six months - in cases
where information from the CIA station or from the
Uruguayans! own sources indicated intention of. travell-
ing to Cuba. Pertinent information from CIA unilateral
operations is being passed regularly to cooperating
Uruguayan officials. Station has a further check in that
the Mexican Ambassador to Uruguay is now checking all
applicants for Mexican visas with the station. On the
basis of information furnished to him, he held up visa
applications of Uruguayan Communist Labor delegates who
planned to attend May Day celebrations in Havana.
Creation of this bottleneck may force some travellers
to abandon the Mexican route to Cuba and turn to the
longer and far more éxpensive route via Prague. Info-
mation on past travel to Cuba by Uruguayans, furnished
by the station, was included in a study of Cuban sub-
version prepared by Uruguayan Military Intelligence
Service for the National Council of Government.

 

4. The U.. S. Information Agency has:

a. Sent circular instructions to all USIS field posts
in Latin America advising each to stimulate publicity in
the local press and radio, to encourage identification of
Cuban trainees through personal-contact work with students
and labor, to report promptly evidence of Cuban-aided
subversion in each country, to report statements by local

‘leaders and editorial comment, and to publicize economic

conditions in Cuba as.means of discrediting travellers to
Cuba. The Agency's Washington media were issued a detailed
guidance on the subject on 28 March.

SECRET

 
> ¥
2

SECRET

bp. In addition to the regular news reporting (VOA) of

' the Managua Ministers! Meeting, broadcast 15 commentaries

and features on the subject of Cuban subversion to Latin
America during the month of April. Among these were a
dramatization based on the story of an Ecuadoran boy who
was attacked by communists in Guayaquil for carrying anti-
communist film, a chronology of subversive acts involving
Cuban diplomats, and a history of subversion from the

‘Trojan horse through Nazi fifth columns to present-day
Cuban subversion,

c. Transmitted by teletype 13 articles on Cuban subver-
sion during April to USIS posts throughout Latin America

‘for placement in the local press. These included news

stories, commentaries, and backgrounders, Among the sub-
jects treated were the Managua Meeting, the Guayaquil ;
incident, the story of an Ecuadoran terrorist trained in
Cuba who was wounded by his own explosives, Assistant
Secretary Martin's Pan American Day speech, and several
commentaries on training in Cuba. The Agency's publica-
tions center in Mexico also published a pamphlet based

on the defection of the Guatemalan ex-communist leader
Carlos Manuel Pellecer, including letters ‘in which he
revealed communist subversive. tactics.

SECRET
SECRET

from Cuba. He has checked a list of names and passport
numbers obtained by CIA from airline manifests in Mexico,
and reports that not one name or passport number corres-
ponds with official Ecuadoran records, indicating the
possibility of fabrication of passports by Cuba.

A recent Ecuadoran returnee from Cuba, recruited by
the station, lost his hand in testing a homemade bomb
made in accordance with instructions received in Cuba.

He made a public statement and wide publicity was ;
arranged~-by the statdon and USIS. Plans are to keep this
incident alive as proof of revolutionary training given
in Cuba for terrorist activity in Ecuador.

The station chief has accompanied the American
Ambassador on visits to the Ecuadoran Ministers of Defense
and Government to stress the threat of Cuban backed
subversion.

Approximately 7,000 pounds of Communist propaganda
are being. destroyed monthly as a result of a unilateral
operation of the CIA Base in Guayaquil.

9) Haiti ~ Station reports that several assets have
travelled fo points outside Port-au-Prince in an effort
to learn of possible travel to and from Cuba. Reports
from areas of Cape Haitien, Port de Paix, and La Gonave
and La Tortue Islands, were negative.

10) Honduras - The government has shown little inclina-
tion to tighten up:on travel control. A travel control
system presented to the Minister of Government has been
fully approved by him, but not yet put into effect,

Several known Honduran Communists have recently travelled
to Cuba. Information as to their identities is being
furnished to President Villeda through the U.S. Ambassador.

11) Mexico - A CIA source states the Cuban Embassy has
issued I0-I5 visas during April on pieces of paper
separate from the passport, but the government's practice
of stamping all passports to show travel to or from Cuba
has largely nullified this effort by travellers to avoid
the stigma of travel to Cuba. All Cubans arriving in
Mexico, whether in transit or otherwise must have Mexican
visas. This is not true of other nationalities, who need
no visa if in transit. The government continues to

- confiscate propaganda material from Cuba sporadically at
‘the airport. The government recently refused visas to
five Cuban doctors who wished to attend a Urology Congress

SECRET 6
SECRET

Station and Embassy are continuing pressure on Cuban
government in this regard. Names of travellers to Cuba
are being passed to the Ambassador, who furnishes them

to President Alessandri (who has asked that this collab-
oration be kept secret). Information from CIA unilateral
operations against Cuban Embassy is being used by a newly
created Chilean surveillance team-in checking out purpose
of travel projected. and in following up on returnees from
Cuba. The station has an agent in daily contact with
leaders. of the extreme militant left and is exploring the
possibilities of sending three station assets to Cuba
for'training and intelligence missions. A Cuban First
Secretary was declared persona non grata during April for
using false identity documents, and the Cuban charge
d'affaires was subsequently recalled by his own government.

5) Colombia - Chief of Customs has indicated to station
his willingness to institute an improved travel control
system. One station asset expects to travel to Cuba
in the near future. Station believes it has identified
‘a courier operating hetween Colombia and Cuba and has
mounted an operation to uncover his Colombian contacts.

6) Costa Rica - Station reports little pro-Castro
activity during April. No recorded travel to or from
Cuba has taken place. local authorities appear inclined
to cooperate in control program. ;

‘7) Dominican Republic - Efforts to get Juan Bosch to
take active steps against Communists and travellers to
and from Cuba have been fruitless to date, as have been
efforts to establish a new and effective internal security

- organization in the Dominican Republic. Bosch appears

to haye lost his previously stated enthusiasm for such
a service, but efforts to persuade him to approve a
proposed budget for the service are continuing.

8) Ecuador - Station reports that, largely as a result
of both overt and covert propaganda activities of U.S.
agencies in Ecuador, the public awareness of Cuban sub-
version has changed from apathy to genuine concern. The
government, however, is no more inclined to take action
than before. The National Director of Immigration has
stated that he personally would like to do whatever he
can to stop travel to Cuba, which he realizes is for.
subversive purposes, but present laws do not pemit him
to impede travel via third countries. He is exploring
possibilities of reprisals against citizens who return

SECRET , 5
13-00000 —

SECRET

a. Established: on. 11 April a U.S. military alerting
system operated by CINCARIB and CINCLANT. Pursuant to the

“request of the Interdepartmental. Coordinating Committee on
‘Cuban Affairs the Department of Defense has suspended the

use of the Military Groups in the alerting system and is
working with CIA to reduce duplication of effort to a mini-
mum.

e. Alerting U.S. forces, for the most part within the
Atlantic Command, to be prepared to provide U.S. assistance
in the final interception of shipping in territorial waters
upon request by the country concerned. Currently, forces
are assigned by the unified commander involved, to meet the
singular problem encountered.

. £. Ordered to the Canal Zone a Coast Guard Mobile
Training. Team for a-period of six months, beginning 15 May
‘1963, to provide training, in Spanish, in boat handling
and maintenance together with suryelllance te¢hniques to
these Central American countries having 40 foot Coast Guard ©
Utility Boats, In addition, the Mobile Training Team will
assist as required in establishing a permanent Small Craft
Training and Inspection Facility in the Canal Zone. One
40 foot utility boat has been permanently assigned to the

U.S, Naval Station, Redman, Canal Zone for use by the MTT and

will be delivered there about 20 June.

3. The Central Intelligence Agency has: ©

a. Completed its efforts to improve U.S. government
communications in Latin America by the installation of the
remaining two commercial leased circuits into. Guatemala
City and Managua, and the stationing on a permanent basis
of 35 CIA. radio operators in Latin America in replacement
of temporary duty personnel.. In November 1962, CIAts active
radio facilities in 20 Latin American capitals were augmented
with on-line eryptographic facilities and temporary personnel
to handle. the bulk of all. U.S. government communications in
the area. These facilities, know as Joint Communications:
Centers, are now being operated by CIA on a 24-hour basis,
as a service to all U.S. government agencies. Latin American
traffic handled by the CIA ,base radio station near Washington
has increased from 3,000,000 groups handled in October 1962

to 15,000,000. groups handled in March 1963.
b. Increased its efforts designed to control the movement

of persons, arms and propaganda materials to and from Cuba.
A summary of actions by country is provided below:

SECRET 3
SECRET

1) Argentina - Station, in conjunction with the
Embassy, has continued to press the Argentine. govern-

ment to enact effective travel control legislation and

to adopt measures recommended by the Special Consultative
Committee on Security of the OAS. Information-on Argentines
travelling to Cuba is being furnished to the Argentine
government by’ the station. Several potential travellers

to Cuba have been spotted and are being assessed by the
station. Information from three recent returnees from

Cuba is being obtained through debriefings. Station re-
ports that because of increased Mexican controls, all

truly clandestine travel to Cuba from Argentina is now via
Prague. . Che Guevara's mother was arrested on 23 April

upon her return to Argentina for importing Castro propa-
ganda.

2) Bolivia - Station and Embassy have been urging -
Bolivian government to adopt stricter travel controls,
without apparent results.so far. Names of travellers
known to have returned from Cuba are being furnished to.
the Bolivian government. Thus far, no action is known
to have been taken by the Bolivian government on the
strength of such information. Station comments that prob-
lem with Bolivia is not in lack of information available
to government on Cuban subversion, but in getting Bolivia
to do something about it. J

3) Brazil - Information.on Brazilians who have received
subversive training in Cuba has been made available to
the Brazilian Foreign Office, through the American Ambassa-
dor, and to the National Security Council through(CIA 24
liaison) with the NSC's Security Service.

An asset: of the CIA station in Rio is in a position
to harass and delay Cuba-bound travellers in those
instances where the station is able to tip him off re-
garding their destination. He can also harass returnres
when informed in advance. The station is taking steps to
get appropriate information to him promptly.

 

are trying to impede and harass
ayellers to and om Cuba. Government is now requiring
passport applicants to state destination, and passports
must be turned in after travel. The Foreign Minister
has stated much progress is being made, with cooperation
of the Mexican government, and that travel of Chileans to
Cuba has been dramatically reduced in recent weeks.

 

é 4) Chile ~ Chilean internal security authorities,
ri

SECRET |. , 4
13-00000 .

SECRET

action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee. An interdepart-
mental team is currently visiting the Isthmian capitals, consulting
with Ministers of Government and autho rities designated by them in
the fields of immigration control, customs control, coastal sur-
veillance and the organization of a local counter-subversive agency.

For the Sub-Committee:

Major General, USMG

Chairman
104-10340-10008

wo

 

SECRET

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
9 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING
COMMITTEE ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

SUBJECT: Second Progress Report, Sub-Committee on Cuban
~. Subversion

ENCLOSURE: Progress Achieved during April in Impeding Travel
: to Cuba

-l. The enclosure hereto summarizes progress made by the
several departments and agencies, during the month of-April, in
executing the actions approved by the President on 8 March 1963,
to control the movement of subversives and subversive trainees to
and from Cuba.

2. In addition to the program on control of subversive travel,
action programs were completed in all of the companion areas, and
were forwarded for approval on the dates indicated below:

a. Controls on Movement of Propaganda Material - 14 March 1963
b. Controls on Movement of Arms - 14 March 1963
c. The Organization of a Caribbean Surveillance System -
15 March 1963 ; '
d. The Exchange of Intelligence - 25 March 1963
e. Controls on Movement of Funds - 10 April 1963
f. Training of Latin Americans in the United States -
26 April 1963

3. A significant development during the month of April bearing
on the action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee was the
Ministerial Meeting held in Managua, Nicaragua, on 3-4 April. The
Managua meeting produced a set'of eight resolutions which, when
implemented, will proceed along the same major avenues as the

; GROUP-i |.
SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC:
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
13-00000,

SECRET

PROGRESS ACHIEVED DURING APRIL IN IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

1. The Department of State has:

a. Participated in the drafting of a resolution passed at
the 3-4 April Managua meeting respecting discouragement of
travel of Latin Americans to Cuba for training in subversion,
The text of the resolution is appended hereto.

b. Headed an interdepartmental team currently visiting
‘the Isthmian capitals with the objective of securing, where
feasible, the fullest and quickest implementation of all the
‘recommendations agreed on at Managua. Prior to the depar-
ture of the team, Department of State posts were instructed
to inform the host governments of the trip and to encourage
them to identify the kinds and extent of technical assistance
it would be most useful for the United States to furnish,

Ge Caused to be noted in U.S. passports since 1 April that
they are not valid for travel to Cuba.

d. Following an indication that the Bolivian Government
might be willing to increase efforts to impede travel of its

- nationals to Cuba, instructed the U.S. Embassy to recommend
that the GOB:

(1) Ban travel to Cuba by Bolivian nationals except
for official or special purposes. approved by the GOB, and
establish legal penalties for violations;

(2) Require Bolivian citizens to have a passport or
other GOB document to travel abroad;

(3) Make such document invalid for travel to Cuba
unless specially endorsed;

(4) Seek arrangements with third countries which are
important transit points under which third countries
will assist the GOB in preventing unauthorized travel
by Bolivians and will help identify violators.

e. Drawing on the recommendation in the paper on "The Move-
ment of Subversives and Subversive Trainees" and other sources,
prepared telegrams to the non-Isthmian posts, instructing them
to encourage host governments to take additional counter-
subversion steps. Each instruction was tailored to the local

SECRET
ta

 

ECRET

situation in the recipient country and’ included appropriate
suggestions as to strategy which might be used in securing
implementation of the desired actions. :

f. Requested posts in Latin America to encourage host
governments to take appropriate measures. to discourage

. participation of their nationals in Cuba's May Day cele-

bration, and to prevent charter flights from their country
to Cuba for the celebration.

2 The Depa rtinent. of Defense has:

a, Continued the U.S, sea and air surveillance of the
area surrounding Cuba until 25 April 1963, at the same rate
and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that. date,
Since 25 April 1963, additional sea surveillance has been
realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the stationing of
the Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance of
the Gulf.of Gonaives occasioned by. the deterioration of
internal conditions within Haiti. Reports of subversive
movement, or suspected subversive movement, obtained by
U.S. surveillance are available for immediate transmittal
through the U.S. military alerting system.

b. Flowing from recommendations by the committee,
greatly accelerated current programs for the installation
of military communications facilities in Latin America.
As of 1 April, a commercial submarine cable from Florida
to Panama became operational. This cable gives reliable
voice and teletype communications to CINCARIB including
both. classified teletype and voice. Negotiations are.con-
tinuing in Honduras, Colombia and Ecuador for the instal-
lation of military radio facilities. Installation of a
multi-channel radio station has been completed in Costa
Riea, A-similar facility in Nicaragua is scheduled for
completion by 1 July 1963.

ce. Established an Intelligence Center at CARIBCOM
Headquarters, in connection with the program of surface
surveillance of the Caribbean, for rapid processing and
dissemination to countries cenecerned, via the American Am-
bassadors, of intelligence on the movement of subversives.

SECRET
