 

13-00000

- . 0 SECRET

SUBJECT: Newly Released JFK Assassination Records

The Board has also upheld deletions we have made that, if
released, would revealSthe full extent of the Agency's *}
(liaison relationship with the Mexican government. (S)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. An important issue we are discussing with the Board
is whether to release the locations of CIA stations in
Europe. The Board has indicated its desire to open in full
the cables and documents from certain stations in Europe
that reported on Oswald. Such a release would constitute
the first official acknowledgmen these statj earl i)

     

2

SECRET

 
2.

104-10334-10123

oy

 

SECRET

CSI-0068/95
§ October 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

FROM: ‘Director, Center for The Study of
Intelligence
SUBJECT: Newly Released JFK Assassination Records

Pa

1. This memorandum is in response to your request for
information on recently released JFK assassination retéotds.
(0) an

2. The documents released by the JFK Assassination
Records Board over the past three months cover Lee Harvey
Oswald's trip to Mexico City in September-October 1963. The
basic information on this subject was released by the Agency
in 1992/93. The latest releases do not contain significant
revelations; they primarily fill in gaps and add details to
a known story. (U) ;

3. The new information in these releases is the
official confirmation of CIA's unilateral telephone tap
operations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico
City. However, we aré sti protecting a separate joint”) -

Fation with the Mexican government, the existence of
intercepted Oswald phone GalIs has béen reported in the
press for years, and the transcripts of these calls have
been available at the National Archives since 1993. Most
of the other new releases are pseudonyms and aliases of
employees, document and file numbers, and cryptonyms. (S)

 

 

     
 

4. The Board has released some information that we
initially preferred to protect, e.g., details on some
operations and sources and the names of several Agency
employees. To date, we have concluded that the damage to
national sectirity or risk to these individuals was not
sufficient to justify an appeal of the Board's decisions.

(U)

5. The Board and its staff have been cooperative in
reconsidering issues and tabling documents: in response to
our concerns. The issue of whether to release certain staff
employee names has been tabled until December to give the
Agency an opportunity to contact the individuals concerned.

CL BY: (611637 |

DECL: OADR
SECRET
SECRET

SUBJECT: Newly Released JFK Assassination Records

DCI/CSI/HRB/BHarrelson:grf/30335 (5S Oct 95)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
~ Executive Registry
- D/CSI
~ CSI chrono
CSI file
- C/HRG ;
- B. Harrelson, HRG
~ HRG File

Pee Be ee
'

Vv

3

SECRET
