1600927245 © UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

 

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protect:.on of

 

 

 

as CIA Facility

element in our foreign signals :ntelligence effort, anda
principal location for training and conferencing of officers
engaged in highly clandestine technical intelligence collection
activities. The facilities at in support of these efforts
include:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET
UNCLASSIFIED
10600927245 UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

 

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of
. as CIA Facility

 

 

 

 

 

 

*® members and staff from the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence. : ;

 

 

 

4

SECRET
UNCLASSIFIED. -»

 
1600927245 -. UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

 

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of

 

 

 

as CIA Facility

and to return this memorandum for retention to Agency
representatives at the conclusion of your deliberations. .

.

3. (S) As we advised previously, identifiable and serious
damage to the mission, the people and the very existence of
could reasonably be expected to occur as a result of any
confirmed affiliation with the Agency. Before examining with
particularity the damage that would flow from disclosure, I
believe that it would be helpful to understand in some detail the
activities which currently constitute the mission and what
new, costly and critical activities are being developed for

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. (8) _|is much more than a : for the CIA
operating under the relatively fragile cover of :

While it does serve this function, and thus houses at the site
known as jsome of the Agency's most important and -

sensitive Top Secret Codeword material,? it is ‘currently the very —
heart of the CIA’s worldwide communications effort,.a critical

 

 

 

 

 

 

* (8) Pursuant to classification guidelines promulgated by the Director of
Central Intelligence, this fact is currently and properly classified at the
SECRET level. ee : . :

. a
(S) Because of the sensitivity of CIA records, the Archivist of the United
States has authorized the CIA to maintain this for both
pending ultimate transfer to the National Archives no sooner
than 50 years after their origination. ‘This currently houses
nearly cubic feet of records classified up to.and including Top Secret
codeword and composed of various media ranging from paper to original imagery
from our national aerial and satellite surveillance platforms. In addition,.
also houses the CIA‘’s which would provide the only
basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CIA headquarters.

3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition and because of the security offered, the erves a similar

role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and

Budget . . : .
SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED -..
1600927245 UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

OIM-97-0010
14 November 1997

' MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Executive director .
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: : (U) Deputy Director for Administration
Central Intelligence Agency -

 

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of
as CIA Facility

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. (S) This memorandum is submitted pursuant to the
decision by the Assassination Records Review Board (hereafter

 

“ARRB” or “Board”) to release the term|

 

in the context of a’CIA facility and the Board's subsequent -
‘decision on 17 November 1997 to xveconsider this issue. It
provides additional information as to why

as a CIA facility must be protected from public
disclosure and hence the cover of this clandestine facility
maintained :* : : :

 

 

 

 

 

a

2. (U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask
the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this ,
document, to limit access to those individuals properly cleared,
ee
* (8) The documents at issue contain t:he texm
however the actual name of the CIA facility at |is the
In point of fact, even CIA personnel tend to use the terms

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

interchangeably.

CL BY: 0700265
CL REASON: 1.5(c}
DECL ON: X1

_DRV FM: LOC 5-82

SECRET © -
UNCLASSIFIED
1600927245 _ UNCLASSIFIED
ber!

 

CONFICENTIAL -

CL BY: 705641
CLAEASOM: Section 1.50 °
DECK on: Xt

Dav ram: COV 1-82

TO: , John F. Pereira

 

 

 

 

Brian S. Latell
FROM:
OFFICE: oct
DATE: 10/20/97 02:21:49 PM

SUBJECT: S2)Re: Release Issue/JFK Board

Thanks. | passed along to D/EXDIR and EXDIR. The D/EXDIR may want Brian Latell to provide some more background on this issue at

the meeting toniorrow.
Original Text of John F. Pereira
Original Text of John F. Pereira

Following is in response to questions raised, by the EXOIR:
1. Members of JFK Board: -~
Chairman: Judge John Tunheim (Federal District Court, Minnesota)
Four other members: Henry Graff: History Professor Emevitus, Columbia U.
. Kermit Hall; Dean of Humanities, Ohio State
Wiliam Joyce; Assoc, Librarian, Princeton U.
Anna Nelson; History Professor, American U.

2. Intermediate steps before appeal to President:

@) We are discussing our concerns with JFK Board Statl, end will ask the Board to
reconsider its decision. :

4} We'll “ve that 4 senior Agency officer brief the Board on the sensitivity of

 

“3, Who would make the appeal tothe President?

Thus far, the process calls for the Agency's General Counsel to forward the appeal
to the White House Coinsel, with the approval of the EXDIR and/or DCL.

4. Has there been an appeal to the President before ?
CIA has submitted one appeal, in early 1996. The éssues concerned identification of _

certain European stations and liaison relationships. The White House directed the
Board and the Agency to "work it out", which was done. After the ADDO briefed the

CONFIDENTIAL
UNCLASSIFIED
1600927245 UNCLASSIFIED

ft CONFIDENTIAL

Board, 2 compromise was reached,

The FBI has submitted three appeals, none of which was successful,

5. Does ISCAP have a role 7

Thus far, ISCAP has had no role with regard to JFK, as far as we are aware.

ce: Ragina A. Genton, Brian S. Latell, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DA,
Sent on 20 October 1997 at 02:21:49 PM

CONFIDENTIAL
UNCLASSIFIED

 

 

 
1600927245 a UNCLASSIFIED

wt : . SECRET

OFSS-96-3975
25 September 1996

MEMORANDUM. FOR: Information Review Officer,
Directorate of Administration

VIA: . Deputy Director for Administration
Director of Facilities and Security Services
Chief, Facilities Management Group, OFSS

 

 

 

 

FROM: ' Chief, FMG/OFSS

 

SUBJECT:

 

 

1.  (S) This memorandum is written pursuant to yesterday’s
discussion with regard to the release of JFK-related documents

 

 

 

that refer to and/or derivatives of al,
It documents executive-level “evidence” as to why

needs to be protected. In brief, significant damage to —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mission, people, and the very existence of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

would occur as a result of the second- and third-
order effects of any confirmed affiliation with the Agency.

 

2. (S) As background, the Central Intelligence Agency has
gone to great lengths to protect sensitive missions and prevent
identification of covert personnel as Agency employees. The
latter is especially profound as the very lives of these .
employees are’ often placed in jeopardy at hostile overseas posts.
The anonymity provided by cover is essential to their protection.
Furthermore, thel provides the
sanctuary whereby |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personnel can
alongside Agency employees without fear of being “tagged”
as working for the Agency.

 

 

 

 

 

_3.  (S).The cover mechanism itself is very fragile. Per

“mandate of the cover providers,|_
the affiliation of

and the Agency, is classified SECRET vice CONFIDENTIAL.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CL BY: 2004977

CL REASON: © 4.5 (c¢)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: LOC 5-82

UNCLASSIFIED
1600927245 ; UNCLASSIFIED

- SECRET

26 September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director
: : Assassination Records Review Board

 

FROM: ; John F. Pereira ;
- : Central Inteliigence. Agency
SUBJECT: econsideration of Release of
in’ the Lopez Report

Level,

1. The attached memorandum is provided. in support of
our request that the JFK board reconsider its decision to
release the reference to | in the
Lopez Report (p. 44).

 

 

 

2. We request that this memorandum and attachment.
be. returned to CIA once the Board has completed its
deliberations on this issue. :

“Attachment. ; “ A Le. -
oo, LE LEA

UNCERSSIFIED »

 
1600927245 UNCLASSIFIED |

yt : . SECRET

 

SUBJECT: (S)

 

 

 

Cover Considerations

cover operates solely on the ability to sustain plausible denial.

In. spite of previous rumors of an Agency

affiliation, categorical

dénial of such has worked to the point that the media currently

 

 

refers to as a|

 

 

-" In

 

 

addition, the public*at-large truly believes that isa
| Given a generally inquisitive media
(one radio station, two newspapers -- all with connections to
affiliates in the Washington Metropolitan Area) and recent

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

publicity over ay

 

 

 

issue, the re-

lease of references to in the JFK-related documents

 

 

 

would precipitate an unwelcome focus on

 

This would lead to

 

the real possibility that cover would be

4.  (S) With the closure of |

 

 

 

remaining federal facility in the |

compromised.
is the sole
As a result,

 

 

the affiliation of Agency records or

 

 

 

 

ruse, will provide a direct link to the

 

 

under any

 

 

 

 

This will pose severe problems for installation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_activities. While the Agency is
located at the media frequently refers to in its
entirety. Activities at the other that would

 

 

be compromised are as follows:

 

 

 

2
UNCLASSIFIED

 
10600927245 UNCLASSIFIED

re SECRET

 

SUBJECT: (S) Cover Considerations

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cover allows it to maintain a very low profile. It is that
low profile which protects the personnel and missions as
described above. Removal of that protective cover, by act or
deed, would provide easy targets of .opportunity for :counter-
intelligence activities, terrorist activities, demonstrations,
and emotionally unstable individuals. .

 

 

 

 

5. (S) In summary, any affiliation of and the Agency,
no matter how insignificant the individual occurrence or document
release may seem, has the very real potential to jeopardize
lives, disrupt the Agency mission, disrupt world-wide classified
message traffic, and, thereby, do irreparable harm to the
national security of the United States.

3
UNCLASSIFIED.
