 

(tostotze-o0re

June 15, 1978
Hsc4

j ee #18 212/38

NOTE FOR : The Director nn ine
FROM : Haviland Smith
‘SUBJECT : The HSCA Investigation of the Mexico City Station

1. The memorandum from Scott Breckinridge, attached hereto, dated
15 June, addresses only one aspect. of our problem with the HSCA. In the
fall of this year, the HSCA will prepare a report for the Congress which will
be unclassified. There seems every likelihood that this report, whether we
are able to contest it successfully either with the Committee or perhaps even
in the Courts, will contain sensitive information, the revelation of which
will be very. damaging to ouxyinterests in Mexico. Not only will this report.
provide evidence. of jactivity in Mexico. City, which 7
‘activities! [but it wilT also Y, 8

( The best example of this, but not the only
example, is {their\¢elephone tap activity, the evidence from which will be

an integral part of the aSCA's conclusions.

 

    

 

 

  
 
 

 

 

 

2. Mexico City is a focal point for Soviet intelligence operations
against: the continental United States. There is a long, documentable history

of Soviet i ico being run into our Country. The relation-
ship that is a'critical ingredient
in. our abi ity to protect ourselves against these Soviet intelligence acti-

vities.. all that the Boyce-Lee case. was brought to our attention
by the Mexican government. If, as we suspect, the Committee

ublTishes, the kin information spelled out above, the result on this
will be disastrous. It will seriously weaken our
ability to protect our country from Soviet intelligence activities. .

3. We believe that the issues raised by Chairman Stokes in his letter
to you affords an excellent opportunity for you: to underline to him some. of
the problems which are inherent in an ultimate declassification and: publica-
tion of the sensitive information they have gleaned: from our: files on general
intelligence activities in Mexico City. This may not prove to be helpful
in dampening the ardor of the HCSA staff, but it most certainly will put
them on notice that the course they are taking will have direct repercussions
not only on CIA activities in Mexico City, but on our bilateral relations
with that country.

 

 

ae 19796

"RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduca
