 

 

 

 

Agency's response, if it had to become public, would not
be embarrassing to the Committee. I said that I assumed
that the issues on the Harvey file and the AMMUG file had
been resolved already. Cornwell expressed ignorance on
the AMMUG file and said that they had wanted to include

_the year 1959 in the Harvey file (we have_provided 1960
through the period of his service as cosy

3. The balance of our conversation had to do with.
how we would handle the Proenza 201 file for the period
in question and the Mexico City history. . I had explained
to Cornwell the difference between the 201 file and the
operational file, without comment from him.

4. Cornwell stated that he knew from our earlier
conversations that we wanted to limit access to these
two matters. He was under instructions from Blakey to |
say that they could not accept such a limitation at this
time; both Blakey and Cornwell are so busy that they
cannot take this on themselves. I pointed out the
dilemma between the situation created by their own time
restraints and our security considerations. I told him

‘that the investigators he wanted to look at this

(Hardway and Lopez) labored under a burdén of credibility
in the Agency and that these young men are so callow’:
that we did not want to trust them with the kind of
information that they had been seeking. He said that if
I knew something about them that he ought to be made
aware of I should tell him. I replied that it was
primarily their attitude and conduct and I did not feel
it constructive to discuss it further.

5. I pointed out that Messrs. Sturbitts and Hawkins

were ready to review the Mexico City history with him.

In fact, he did go through it very briefly with them,
noting that there were deleted sections with hand
written explanations of the subject matter. Cornwell
asked me to get authority for Hardway and Lopez to review
these two matters. I first asked that Mr. Leap, who
had worked the Mexico City problem be used, emphasizing
that he was a mature person. I then asked if it would
be acceptable to limit the review to one of the two.
When he asked me which one it would be, I replied that
it should be Lopez as much of the Proenza file is in
Spanish which Lopez handles well. ;

 

ga
 

‘toa t0127-10080

 

Jog. 7830/2 |
18 August 1978

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion on Matters Affected by HSCA Subpeona

1. This memorandum includes more than the above
subject as there was a preliminary conversation with .
Ken Klein who initiated a request for an Agency position
on Nosenko. I spoke with him briefly when I went down to
the Headquarters entrance today to pick up Mr. Cornwell.
I told Klein that we would not have someone available on
21 August to provide the testimony requested, but that a
person is preparing for it. I said that we thought it
inappropriate to address a staff member in giving an
Agency position, and that in this case it would place
in their record (thereby becoming HSCA property) sensitive
matters that we have taken great pains to hold within the
Agency. I said that written answers to the questions
are being prepared, in addition to the statement. He
asked if I would tell him who would make the statement;
I replied that it was intended that John Hart do so, as
he had studied the problem already and was not an actor
in the earlier phases of the matter. I told Klein that
I had tried to contact him by telephone to give him this
message, but that in any event a letter from the: DDCI
to Chairman Stokes was to have been delivered to the
Committee this morning.

2. Cornwell and I met for slightly over a half
hour today. I told him that I was embarrassed for
Chairman Stokes over his subpoena. I said that the
Harvey OPF had been reviewed in the morning of the day
before the subpoena was voted. I said that the document
being requested from the AMMUG file had not been found,
which was known to his investigators, and that a subpoena
could not produce it. I said that the other two matters
were of very doubtful relevance to the charter of the
Committee--the deception operation that I had described
to him earlier could not in good faith be requested by
the, Committee, and the Mexico City history covered
[yeas of activity with the most limited reference
to the Oswald matter. I expressed the opinion that if
they pressed for the subpoena that they would essentially
be creating a constitutional confrontation at what is
probably the most inopportune time so far as the investi-
gation is concerned. I was not at all sure that the

RETURN TO CIA :
Background Use Only 22306
Do Not Reproduce

    

0
74-00000

 

 

6. We left it that I would submit the Committee's
request for Hardway and Lopez to review the matters,
and that in any event Cornwell who is leaving for
Dallas today would be back in town Tuesday to review
the matter further. He wants Hardway and Lopez to see
the file today and Monday; I said that I doubted that
I could get a decision before later in the day. Cornwell's
Dallas address will be the Holiday Inn on Regal Road
if I have to call hin. ; a

S.D.. Breckinridge \

Distribution:
Orig - OLC/Subject
- OLC/Record
- OGC (Rininger)
- DDO
- Mr. Shepanek
- SA/DDCI

Heh Re

 
