13-00000

 

as Subject may have, if any, is within the Bureau's jurisdiction
rather than that of this Agency.

es Donovan E. Pratt
DC/CI/R&A

 

Distribution:
Orig - DCI

1 - DDP
1 « Executive-Comptroller
1 + General Counsel
1 - A/DCL
1 + Office of Security
‘1 - Director, Domestic Contact Service
1 - €/CI, DG/Cl
i - REID/Files, 201-834272
1 - GI/R&A chrono
1 « DP Garrison file

 

7
SECRET

 
13-00000

12, The New Orleans Times- -Picayune of 12 December 1968
included the following item:

"Garrison also commented on William Boxley,
_an investigator he fired on Monday because, Garrison
‘said, he was an operative of the Central Intelligence
Agency.

“ 'He wae not only a CIA agent,‘ said the DA, ' but
he wae oné.on a very high level’. Asked what proof his
office developed, Garriaon said it concerned material
that Boxley had put in written form.

“Boxley, contacted in Austin, Tex., told the
Times-Picayune on Wednesday that he hag not been
involved with the CIA or any federal agency aince 1952.

“He said he believed Garrison ‘has been genuinely
misled' about his GIA involvement, adding: ‘Lam sure
he believes as strongly in this (his alleged CIA involvement)
as he once believed in me." Boxley said he would cooperate
completely with Garrison's office in returning to it material
he still hae in his posseasion.

Boxley gaid the only written material he ever provided
Garrison's office was a description of how various intelltgence
agencies operate.

 

Boxley said he waa ‘really sad' over his firing by
Garrison, but added that he believed no one could convince
Garrison that he was not an agent of the CIA."

Cc. Current Developments

13. On 27 December 1968 Dr. Stephen Aldrich of DD/8 and T
informed the Office of Security that at 1600 hours on 27 December he
had received a telephone call fronmi Subject, who had been his subordinate
in Saipan. GI/R&A called Dr. Aldrich, who supplied the following -
additional information:

a???

 
13-00009

 

"SECRET

a. WOOD said that he was calling from a pay
phone in a Sears Roebuck store in Dallas. He provided
& home telephone number, which we have not been able
to verify, and he believes that this telephone is bugged.

b. WOOD had found the telephone number of
‘Dr. Aldrich in the directory. His only previous call was
made in ¥966, when he requested a recommendation for
@ newspaper job for which he was applying. Dr. Aldrich
referred him to Personnel. :

c. Subject teld Dr. Aldrich on 27 December that

he had information which he urgently wanted to communicate

to CIA. He sounded upeet.

14, C/CI/R&A advised Dr. Aldrich that if Subject telephoned
again, he should be told that his call had been referred to the proper
authorities. Because of the information reported above, there was
a possibility of provocation.

15. In the mid-afternoon of 28 December 1968 Subject again
telephoned Dr. Aldrich from an unknown location. He asked whether
someone would be in touch with him. Dr. Aldrich said that Bubject's
information had been relayed to those responsible and that he had no
information about future contact. Subject said that he was not trying
to involve Dr. Aldrich but that he did have information to relay. He
sounded less frightened than on his previous call. He suggested that.

‘whoever called or visited him should identify himself by referring to. 13 23

information held in common (i.e., to Saipan in 1951-1952). Out of a

job, WOOD had received two or three offers of employment but was not
sure of the identities of the prospective employers and feared
provocation, presumably from Garrison's office. Apparently he believes
that the FBI is monitoring his home telephone.

 

It ie our intent to ask the Bureau to relay thia information
to its: office in Dallas and to instruct an FBI representative to cali
upen Subject and request elucidation, because such information
13-00000

he had been recruited by OSS while he wag attending infantry school

at Fort Benning in October 1944. He stated that his services were to
have been used to originate and conduct radio programs in the CBI
theater, that he had been investigated by Dunn and Bradstreet, and that
in the couree of a long distance telephone call to the OSS Personnel
Procurement Office he had been told that OSS could not use him at that
time but that he should keep in touch. The interviewing officer in
Honolulu commented in his report to Security Officer, OSS Headquarters,
‘that the Dunn and Bradstreet leak should be noted and that WOOD
certainly knew more about OSS than any other potential recruit whom the
interviewer had ever seen.

2. On 13 December 1950 Subject was given a Covert Security 13 -23
Clearance for use as a staff agent and was assigned to Saipan as Chief
Instructor of Clandestine Operations. He arrived at his post in March
1951, and two months later his dependents were issued travel clearances
to join him. In March 1952 he suffered a nervous breakdown and was

_returned to Agency Headquarters for medical observation. The medical
conclusion was that the breakdown had resulted from family troubles and
overindulgerice in alcohol. In May 1952 WOOD was assigned to OTR
as an inatructor in the Operations Course. In October 1952 his status
was converted to that of a staff employee, and he was assigned to OTR
as a GS-11 instructor.

 

3. In December 1952 an Agency guard found WOOD lying on a
sidewalk near Temporary Eye Building. He was bleeding from the
mouth. There was.no evidence of foul play. At his own request he was
taken to Emergency Hospital.. In January 1953 he failed to report for
duty. Agency represerfatives went to his residence, the Lafayette Hotel,
and found bim under the influence of alcehol. He was requested to report
for duty the next day, but the hotel doctor had him removed to Gallinger
Hospital because of continued intoxication. Subject's resignation was

. requested on 19 January 1953 and became effective 27 January 1953.

4. On 11 July 1953 Subject telephoned the Security Office from
Dallas, Texas. He said that he would undergo brain surgery on 13 July
at Baylor Hospital, Dallas. He deked that an Agency representative
be present. Arrangements were made to ensure that anything WOOD
said under anaesthesia would remain confidential. WOOD was given
sodium pentothol, but no surgery (except a spinal tap) was performed.
In hia hoapital room, to which he had been returned from the operating
room, WOOD said that he had served overseas with the CIA and had

 
 

104-10310-10253

 

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:
William Clarens WOOD Jr., alias William BOXLEY,
~ + 201-834272

Reference: Cl/R&A Memorandum No. 9, Subject: Garrison
and the Kennedy Assassination, 5 June 1968, paragraph 19c |

A. Summary

William Clarens WOOD Jr. was employed by CIA as a contract

‘ instructor in clandestine operations from March 1951 when he arrived
in Saipan, until March 1952, when he had a nervous breakdown resulting

from family problems and alcoholism. Sent back to Headquarters,

he served as an instructor in OTR from May 1952 to January 1953,

when his resignation was requested, again because of heavy drinking.

During or before July 1968 Garrison, who knew that WOOD had been a

CIA employee, hired him as an investigator assigned to Garrizon's
"investigation" of the Kennedy assassination. In December 1968, however,
Garrison's office announced that WOOD had been fired because it had been
ascertained that he was then active as a CIA ‘operative'. Later in | - 13:23
December WOOD made two telephone calle to his former chief in Saipan,
requesting contact and instructions. The case is being referred to the FBI.

BL Summary ef Earlier Events

1. William Clarens WOOD Jr., born 17 August 1920 in Shreveport,
Louisiana, was approved in November 1944 for overseas employment
by OSS in an assignment aa a newspaperman (printing chief in a Central
Pacific operation). This approvel was withdrawn on 23 December 1944,
however, because of non-concurrence by OG/AAF. He waa then assigned
to combat infantry duty in the Southwest Pacific; he was not used by O88.
In February 1945 he visited the Honolulu Office of OSS and claimed that
13-00000

 

 

SECRET

seen many people killed, 'The CIA are a bunch of dirty cut-throats,
and I wouldn't be a bit surprised if they sent one of their men to cut
mine. . They think they are smart, but one of these days in the near

‘future I will show them who is the smartest. They have about 100

GS-14's walking around with their heads shaped like eggs .... Ihave
been a failure but after I get well I am going to go back to school and
get my degree and fight the CIA with everything that I can,"

5. A report of 30 April 1957 from the FBI office in Dallas, Texas,
noted that Subject had telephoned from Midland, Texas, to a Chinese
intelligence officer in Formosa, WOOD said that he had formerly been
employed by the CIA. He offered to help the officer "with things I know".
He then telephoned Lubbock, Texas, and spoke to a person believed to
be his wife. He told her that he had epoken with Chiang Kai-Chek's chief.
of intelligence and that "If this thing goes through", she and the baby

_ would receive from $700 to $1000 a month.

6 In February 1967 the Domestic Contact Service in Dallas
requested clearance to use Subject and reported that he had not had a
drink in nine and a half years. On 3 March 1967 derogatory FBI informa-
tion and the information that WOOD was again drinking heavily were
forwarded te the DCS, which then dropped him as a potential source.

7. On 18 January 1968 Ron OSTROW of the Los Angeles Times
called the A/DCI and relayed a Los Angeles query about a former CIA
agent, William BOXLEY, who was an investigator for Jim Garrison,
The A/DCI replied, "no comment." _

3)

8. In April 1968 Paul ROTHERMEL, security officer for Hunt
Oil Company, Texas, said that he had been visited by a Bill WOOD who
was conducting inveatigations in Dallas for Jim Garrison under the alias
of Bill BOXLEY, WOOD was making inquiries about the CIA and its
operations, It was further reported that WOOD was well known in
Houston and that his connection with Garrison was no secret.

9. On 12 July 1968 the New York Times (p. C35) carried an article
headlined "Garrison Claims Foxsign Spy Link Link", The article includes
the following:

"Over the telephone, Mr, Garrison also introduced an
investigator for his office, Bill Boxley, as a former

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency instructor in the ‘clandestine
operations department'. He said he had found Mr. Boxley
_ while seeking a 'man who had been with the intelligence
‘agency but still cared about the United States. '

“Mr. Boxley then said hig real name was William C.
Wood; he was forty-eight years old, originally from Texas;
he had worked 10 years as a newspaper reporter -- last
on The Denver Post. from 1948 to 1950; he had been with the
intelligence agency two to five yeare in the 1950's overseae
and in Washington and had ‘used as many ae 10 different
names in operations with the agency'."'

10. The basic facts about WOOD were provided to the FBI by
CSCI 316/02725-68 of 15 July 1968. Additional relevant information
was requested. The Bureau replied on 18 July 1968 that the Berkeley
Barb", published by the Underground Prees' Syndicate, had stated in
ite issue of 29 December 1967 -- 4 January 1968 that Bill BOXLEY,
an inveatigator for Garrison, had verified a Mafia. plot to kill Garrison.

11. The New Orleans Times-Picayune of 10 December 1968
carried the following:

"The office of Orleans Parish District Attorney Jim
Garrigon Monday announced the removal of a member of
the staff investigating the assassination of President John
F. Kennedy because of alleged involvement with the CIA.

" ‘William Boxley was fired after evidence recently
developed by the District Attorney's staff indicated current
activity by him as an operative of the Central Intelligence
Agency, ' the office said.

"Boxley'a initial service with the CIA was in Washington,
D. C., where he served for years as an active agent for ‘what
was then termed the Department of Covert Activity', according
to the office..

"The office said federal intelligence efforts to interfere
with the investigation into President Kennedy's assassination |
have been occurring since the beginning of the inquiry'."'

ft

ot SET

nee
