 

 

SERRE

ele

money slready ia Cuba - dollars would be delivered to owners of the pesos who —

-ave in Miami}. Iteld him I woald call him in the morning to tet him know how

things stood.

4. Idiecussed our meeting with CISNERCS with Tracy Barnes on the
morning of 2 June. i was Tracy's opinion, in which Theartily concur, that
we should put out no money whatsoever until ve have had a: chance wo examine
Manolo's plan and to study just what recercussions or ramifications there
would be, policy-wise and otherwise, to a decision to assist the MRP
enilaterally; that is, outside the Council and presumably without MIRO's os
knowledge or consent. Since RAY has withdrawn his grous from the Council
with a grea: deal of fanfare, it is rroat unlikely that MIRG would look kindly
@B any agsietence to RAY, especially since he feels he has a rather firm
promise from the President to deal only through MIRO, ~ .

5. RAY, upon arrival in Washington, will presumsbly take his alan {along
with BETANCOURT) directly to hir. Goodwin and I would ’lao pregume that
Goodwin will pass it down to Tracy and Tvacy to us. Ray DuBoeie, who has
been Manolo's case officer, is stamding by in the event he should be needed.

6 Upersonally feet very atrongly thet we should do nothing to supzort the ~~
plaa, whatever it is, until wo have received from the White House and the .
Department clear-cut, unequivocal policy guidance on the overall plan. I also
feel that now 12 the ime, if we are 80 ing to support the MRP unilaterally, to
insert a non-official cut oui into the operation, I would recommend that con-
elderation Le given to using Mr. Harry Pieper (a WAVE conrract employee)

Gm this job. Harry ia iampermeniaily sulied, has a geod business head, is
fluent in Spanish (lived <8 years in Cuba), is cleared, followe directicas,

‘completely honest end tremendously conscientious.. would be harder to

find a better person.

7. Also, I would like to soins out the security risks inherent in any arranges
mente with the RAY-BETANCOURT-CISNEROS trio. These fellows have had
easy accest to the White House and to the Department, are notorious ior their
“planned leaks, will probably presume all the Department officials they deal
with are privy to the arrangement, and before we know it the whole exile
community will be well aware that we are Providing financial and material
Support to the RAY group. Iam not arguing against providing such aapport,
but am merely pointing out the real pocential for embarrassment to us if the
matier le not handled with the greatest of precautions, I feel they have become |
soo closely identified with U. S. -officialdem, including myself, and that the
plausible denial aspects, to date at least, are almost pon-ealstent.

 

ee: A/DDP/A
DC/WH/t

 

saan oni ind wai yma

a Ra Sara inbAS Doh sg tt a

 

 
 

104-40243-10002]-

 

e

be ipelterean deenihas

i

SECSET - | Causes sauna |

« June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Fi

SUBJECT: Relations with Manolo RAY and the KRP

1, For background see my memorandum of ld May !96!, resorting on .
may long cession with Manolo RAY, Rogelio CISNEROS (Eugenio) and Ernesto - |;
BETANCOURT. Aa wiil be noted in that memorandum, Manolo promised to
come uz with a prospectus within approximately ten days! time, alter. con-
sulting with hie leaders in Cuba.

4, Oni June (961 Mr. Barnes called me te say that tg. Goodwin had

been visited by br, Ernesto BETANCOURT who asked for immediate iinanclal - *

Suppert for certain activities of the hiRP which would run around $1). 006
dollars, Mr, Barnes asked me to contact BETANCOURT for the pur,ose of ' :
aeceriaining what the funds were to be used for, exactly how much ngeded, ete.
Icalled BETANCOURT and he told me that I should get these details from
CISNEROS (Fugenio}), who wae staying at room 5¢9 at the Wasbington Hotel.

I called Eugenie and made a data for me and Ray DuBois (Ray Adams is ine
meme he uses with Key and Cisneros) to calt upon him. ‘ve called on CISNEROS
&: approximately 1835 hours | June, and be informed us thar he had urgent =~
meed for pesos for use in support of bis sabotage and underground activities f
in Cuba. He said his zeople were absolucly without funds, aceded money for’ i
living expenses, transportation perchare of sabotage equipment, sir faves fer |
couriers, and for assisting peogle to get out of orisoa. He said that it was 4
Bow possible for people to buy their way out of prison by bribing one ofthe - :
meny ‘communist lewyers and judges, He thought that 4u, Co0 or 6u, Lot :
would moet immediate needs and that some sort of arrangement should be made:
to receive funds ~ 34, 90 monthly or theresbours ~ on a Gxed and permaneng
basie. : : .

3. We made no commitment to Eugento. other than to say that we would
pase his plea aleng to the interested peopis, 1 reminded him that we hed aeked |
aim and Manole to pregare @ plan for consideration and that we were stl! :
waiting for thas pian. 1 eaid I personally doubted that anything could be dene ==

-wmtil the plan was received from RAY. He sald Manolo was planning to. come so:

Washington on the afternoon ef 3 June. with the plan, but chat he himself was
having to return to Miami immedtagely and it was vital he be able to take the
maney with him, arrange in Aifami for purchase of the pesos (at rate af ial |

 

eleva theal beady cad -

 

 

 

i.
po,
2

enna baste

 

 

 
