 

SREAIB, ctr sem ene (mR AIRMAN SR EEROEED tenn easter onrent

”

Les. {cont inued) - sss ns ee cee
_+No discussions yet any financial aid or other. commitments.

‘would attempt re-establish some military and govt circle

  

  
   
  

 

‘

Following Helsinki festival, planned return Cuba and enroll}
in officer refresher course to renew army contacts and h

 

contacts.

Lee was to handle and assess Cubela, inParis
mid-August i902. Rumors had been rife since June that

he to defect this trip. Repeated that previous soft sell -
.attempt to defect him by Mexico City C/O failed Mar 61. - a

believed widespread rumor (in view Cubela

Ker ve been planted for provocation purposes. |
Wanted to poly him. Cubela planned to spend

7 days in France and $ days in Prague prior to return to |
Havana, 28 Aug 62. : . i

17 Aug 62 Paris: Cubela appeared sincere ard honest: in
expressed desire return to Cuba and remain in place and
cooperate, Neither asked for nor was offered any financial!
or other considerations.

  
  

   

Agreed to intell collection assignment. Was to be given —
SW training and Spain drop address.

Talked at length about elimination of Cuban regime leaders;
said he could and would carry out mission. AGAIN repeated
he would need basic instruction in plastic explosives

about which he knew nothing. :

 

 

 

raised question of poly and Cubela reaction 4
such that to have pursued matter further would have -
destroyed rapport and ended op association.

 

C/O said he had no intention give Cubela physical
elimination mission, and that he not be given plastics j
to take back to Cuba. Clear that his value was as FI }
source and "not as torch man". Emphasized he net to

embark on sab missions without direct CIA approval.

N.B. Cubela was levied reqmt. purpose of recent influx. Sovic
Bloc techs in Cuba; now many; where assigned; task;
how many more expected? .

 

Cubela was given explosive instruction with field
demonstration on 20 Aug 62.

 
‘{tod-10245-10086

attend World. Youth
efugee ree of |

in N.Y. and* requ
‘ance’ “for: entry to ‘U. S. : “agency” planned have AMC
contact TEPEDINO- and. offer financia assistance or. Cubel

 
