74-00000

¢ a” . -_
vias A1® pispatcH no. ADCAS5E9
CSrROOrY AIRC? EA re | ee
is)
| SECRET |
CLASSIFICATION
TO  : Chief, WHD pare_ 26 August 1956

 

mows Chief of sain] |

‘SUBJECT: GexeraL— Operational
seecirc— Cuban —- Daainican Relations: Rolando MASFERPER + -

REF: ODACID Ciudad Trujille Despatch Mo. 53, dated July 23, 1956, and its
attachment Menorantan of July.13, 1956, concerning Semtor Rolando
MASFERRER and his newspaper Tiempo en Cubs

1. The Chief of Station invites Headquarters' close scrutiny of the

BITS SERCRS Le eel ews wees, OoUaLue MUIMDOO RADKSMNee OF Cuba and his
newspaper Tieapo en Cuts.

2. The inpression GS bas derived of Senator Zolando Masferrer froaa
~ referenced reports is thst there is a strong possibility that he is a "Trojan
. Eorse" for the extrene left and prohably the Commmists, despite the fact that
his trouble-making periodical (subsidised by the Cctan Goverment) say be -
- . ®a heavy user of USIS material".

3. Where ‘asa when was opportunist Rolando Masferrer wituing t to risk his
earcer for an "ideal"? according to reference it «ia as a Commmist fighting
for the so-called "Loyalist" cause in Spain. Does it necessarily mean any-
thing that Masferrer now *srofesses anti-Comunism with a vengeance"? Is
Masferrer a broad-minded, levol-headsd, and judicieis “whig®? Certainly he
does not appear to be suck from the account of him siven in reference. He
would appecr to se anything but a well-balanced, cccservative, Republican (in
the technical and non-partisan sense of the word).

le : 4. Masferrer appears to COS to be a Jacobin, a demagog, a tyrant, and
aa extrenist—-and probably a leftist extrenist-—-who is attenpting to sway tlie
course of BATISTAa's policies. :

5. It is of inportance to note that as of 13 Jcly 1956 it was roportsd
in reference that Hasferrer "currently is attempting to gain’ control of Cuban
labor". Were Senitor Masferrer to obtain such control, COS feels he would be
a definite danger in Cuba and possibly in the Caribbean,

6. Were C08 convinced that Hasferrer is merely an opportunist, he would
-- - --- — Rot have bothered to write this dispatch. COS is of the studied opinion that
Masferrer has adopted the anti-Communist line sclely for the purpose of staying

_ fon the battleground

SECRET tt say: V2G67.

CLASSIFICATION

   

gone a3. Fe) ORB

Page \
BkLids aoa emne!
; .

 

  
 

@ yee, ~ SRCR' 2
: . i. = weeny = om . “3

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET /1501 00589 1501 a

whh the aumber in the “TO” eohwn

SOCUMENT DATE Ho Q , Ss

COMMENTS

SCTE: Hoa copy of stachments are remored from the ai-

tected document, ncte the location of ihe copy and/or attach

emat Reream. If thy SECORD COPY Is to be retained tz

the Eisx af the Desk. cal the Consral Fite Section for per-
han.

    
 
 
 

 

 
     

   

  

Sepy Ber sohed

 
 

so SECRET Oe heat 1956

Page 2.

on the battleground until it suits his purposes to desert the anti-Commist

cause at the most critical moxent possible. Until anti-Coanunism becaze

popular about 1950 and 1951, Semtor Masferrer, as indicated by reference,

enjoyed reviling the United States, its people, and its policies. .

7. What are Generalissino TRUJILLO's attitudes toward Masferrer, Batista,
and Cuba? Trujillo's thought precesses lea~ him to the philosophy that "if
you are not with us you are against us", Since Trujillo's line, sisply, ie
this: Catholicism, netionalisa, aryanism, conservatism, hispanicisa, tredi-
tionalisn, anti-Commnism, and cooperation, generally, with a United States
which recognises the sovereigzty and culture of hismniceanerican mtions,
Trujillo rescnts Batista's tolerating the enemies of his ideal. Trujiilo has
hoped to enlist Batista in the "Concert of the Caribbean" and to have him
aquelch the Dominican exiles and she Cammunists. If Trujillo did attespt to

i wan over masurrer, ne was pruwosy mis2ou Uy naDierNTs-o ase Cave. wl ew
. anti-Cosaunism and possibly hoped to use him as an infleence upon batista's
noe policies. It is tard to believe that Generalissimo. Trujillo would be likely
t to team up with a Carlos PRIO Socarras. Is there definite evidence tiat he

. has in the past? . : .

8. Possibly Trujille bluniered in nis approach to Masferrer. Ee often
blunders because he is susceptible to flattery in regard to his grand schemes.
Could it be possible that Masferrer initiated the Trujillo action through his
adopting the anti-Cocemnist position? That position attrac:- Trujille like

- a bee to honey. ‘Trujille, like Bolivar, loves the role of a Jefenier of America. — :
Despite his many weaknesses, ie is often sincere in taxing euch position.
Some persons call it megalomnia, However, megalonania in itself is not always
bed. It can be used to advantage by a United States seeking unity, peace,
: ” and cooperation on its southern marches, Trujillo has sany faults, but he is
. i - @ partisan of order and he hates chaos. Trujillo hates leftism because it
brings chaos and mies the tzsk of conscientious leaders, at tines, inpoosible.

 

 

  

 

   

 

  

. : }
i . MA)
ro 2} Aagust 2956 ,
. 1 ~~ Distribations ; , we.
mo, 3 - Headquarters os . ;
a a we Pa ne: ;
. __ SECRET a
: : decemnnge ; ; . * a ; . oe reese inane hes ee Z
, :
,

 

et
