14-00000

. :
-_ 4 Ea

   

 

Tea ie a oe Trea Taal sein NEVED

«CONTINUATION OF i ee . . ‘ :
» 7 DISPATCH SECRET HMMA-34792

service tests the decision is reached not to continue develop-
ment of a leftist writer group press service, LIANCHOR will be.
converted to a roof project for the administration and funding

of singleton writer agents. Identity-1l, if recruited, will be -
told to use the LIANCHOR stationery and list of publishing
newspapers to develop his own prestige and readership abroad,

but he will not be ask. to find additional writers for the

press service. At the cnd of FY 1969 the LIANCHOR project will
be terminated as such and tts funds and such agents as have

been developed under LIANCHOR will be documented under Project

LILISP-E for FY 1970, 0° - Coda yh

pi. 3 : ‘

‘

  

for,;Willard C, CURTIS

    

fie rsrnrermer per rncw sats

 

 

 

 

 
cs
>

 

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT

 

to HMMA-34792

 

IDENTITIES: 1

 

 

4 - Alfonso’ ¥MARTINEZ Estevez, former personal
. secretary to deposed Guatemalan. Communist presi-
dent Jacobo ARBENZ. >

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
‘ - 6 = Manuel CALVILLO, Mexican author and editorialist

in the Sunday literary “sections of Mexican news—
papers. | _ a

7 -

8 = Francisco\*ZENDEJAS, book critic for "EXCELSIOR",

>. Mexico City TV channel #4 and Radio Station KEW.
He was once personal sééretary to Leon TROTSKY. |
Chronic _alcoholic,

9.

 

 

 

 

 

at

 
14-00000
‘ | v7 RUNEINUAILUN Ur, hos

2o 7 DISPATCH | SECRET> |  HMMA-34792

 

 

LIANCHOR cannot properly be run from :

will describe to Identity-l the problems which
C} Shad in developing LIANCHOR and, in asking Identity-1
to take over control of LIANCHOR, will suggest that
Identity-1 use the LIANCHOR name and established publica-
tion outlets to broaden his prestige in Latin ris:
without any thought of trying to oarn fees teil
also suggest that Identity-1] retaia Identities and 9 to
help fill out the service, but that he gradually try to
draw in personal writer friends of definite leftist fame
and persuade them to contribute to LIANCHOR purely, for
the reward of increased prestige. Finall will
offer to continue to contribute material from time to
time from Guatemala which Identity-1, through his good
standing in the Mexican press, perhaps can publish in
Mexico. ’

Woh

b, If Identity-1 rejects recruitment, the next candi-
date for LIANCHOR chief is Identity-10, who has already
told that he is prepared to take over LIANCHOR
on a pro 6|-ionary. basis to see whether it will enhance his
reputatio.. The Station feels that Identity-10 would be
easier to recruit than Identity-1. However, Identity-10
is not too well known in Mexico and is totally unknown
abroad. One of Identity-10's virtues is the fact that he
never formally quit the Communist Party and has done nothing
to irritate the Party. As economic and general reporter for
"EXCELSIOR" he offers placement potential. If Identity-1

‘~ does accept recruitment, the Station still intends to try

to recruit Identity-10 as a singleton under Project LIANCHOR,
possibly steering Identity-10 to Identity-1 and the LIANCHOR
press service after due consideration. The Station is also
interested in the possibility of recruiting Identity-10 in
order to send him to World Youth ‘Featival at. Sofia, .
since it is believed bpp | that Identity-1 still has
access to some worthwhile contacts in Central American
young Communist circles. a

16, Testing for Indications of Effectiveness to Determine
Future Direction of LYANCHOR Project:

a. It is estimated that it will not cost over U.S.
$200 to hire clipping services in Buenos Aires, Montevideo,
Santiago and Bogota for a three month trial period to test
whether newspapers which receive LIANCHOR material in those
cities are publishing the LIANCHOR material. The clipping
services will be asked to watch for articles with the
LIANCHOR by-line, the by=-lines of LIANCHOR writers and the
headlines or titles which are assigned by LIANCHOR to the
articles mailed to the newspapers.

 

 

 

  
 

|
|
|
|
|

 

 

 

b. If the clipping service tests show that newspapers
or periodicals in two of the above cited countries are
publishing LIANCHOR material, Station will continue to.
pursue the development of a small and responsive leftist
writer group ag one phase of the LIANCHOR operation. The
rationale behind this decision is that there is little
justification in operating a press service, even a cheap
one, with a readership limited to Mexico, Central America,
Venezuela and Bolivia. However, if the press service can
acquire, or has acquired, readership in any two of the
countries in 16-a above then it is felt that the total
areu coverage is significant and worth maintaining.

a 17, Conversion of LIANCHOR to Temporary Roof Project for
: Singleton Le 8 riter Assets: If as a result of clipping

I ts i UA CAT Pt FO SO BEN TSO ORC A UNTER SS PN Nc Serna Na

 

 

 
~D000R ou tiNUATION OF i. |
‘7 DisRaTcH -i +s SBCRET |  HMMA=34792 .

  
   

 

. c.. As a penetration of a Communist party |

was a singleton. - Although as a former Communist leader
he has had experience in handling people, he has not
had experience in handling sub-agents for WOFIRM. There
was evidence during the reporting period that
was having real trouble managing his co-worke
LIANCHOR. However, handicapped by the fact that he was
not paying his co-workers fees or salaries,
probably did as well ag he could in controlLiia

* co-workers, The real fault Jay ip his poor selection
of co-workers.

 

 

 

ll. Effectiveness of LIANCHOR articlesaad Features: in
the Station's opinion thosa articles which’ Jwrote were

, - and effective, but too long. ‘The articles written by
co-workers apparently were ineffective to the point
tha

ey were not considered worth publishing. The Capriles
newspaper chain of Venezuela apparently felt tha
articles were well worth running, despite the fac

had to be published in installments. The leading newspapers
ach of the Central Américan republics appeared to believe
ticles merited automatic publication. It is
assumed the. articles were published regularly in
Bolivia du@\to La Paz “Station assistance. However, because _no Ll.
newspaper felt like paying fees to LIANCHOR or answering)
‘correspondence, it has not been possible to ascertain whether
LIANCHOR articles have been published with any regularity in
Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Colombia or Ecuador, It is too much
to ask third country stations to scan the press daily for articles
by seven different people. The Station has appreciated 1, 4
the assistance received from the .
Sta which have been the principal gource of the clip=
pings off gL TANGHOR articles submitted as Separate Cover
tp to

Attachme his dispatch.

 

   
  

Ay

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECURITY

12... There have been no incidents of security nature
hazardous to the LIANCHOR project during the reporting period.

FINANCE AND SUPPORT

13, Finance: During 1 October - 30 May the LIANCHOR. .-
project expensesyfhave consisted of U.S. $5,600 in salary pay-
ments to pt U.S. $700 per month and U.S. $119 in cost
of mailing out LTANCHOR articles. .

 

 

14. Support: Reproduction of the LIANCHOR articles for
mass distribotion to Latin American newspapers was done by the
Station using a Xerox machine.

PLANS
15. Replacement of :
a, Provided Headquarters grants: POA and Identity-1

accepts recruitment by a Station case officer, LINLUCK
will be directed to approach Identity-1 some two weeks

 

after the recruitment will tell Identity-1 that
he has come to Identity~I on the advice of Identity-6,
LIANCHOR member and friend of Identity~1 Lil

 

explain that he is returning to Guatemala to seek “& poli-~
a tical career and must giveup the direction of. LIANCHOR

a

 

 
 

0 L

 

. CONTINUATION OF -,
DISPATCH

. as ; RTC TN, ATT
SECRET | HMMA--34792

and the open letter are submitted as Separate Cover
Attachment "C" to this dispatch, Costs of the print~
ing and distribution were charged to LILISP-X,

c. Via Identity-4 passed guidance material
to Mexico's top female poet, Margarita MICHELENA, :
‘concerning YEVTUSHENKO. MICHELENA published a series
of professional criticisms ef YEVTUSHENKO as a poor” , o
poet and opportunist in the Mexican press. In April, . —
immediately following YEVTUSHENKO's departure, & con-
densation of the MICHELENA critiques of YEVTUSHENKO were
published in the leftist political illustrated magazine
“IMPACTO" by LILISP-E. —

d. Identities 3 and 6 of tne LIANCHOR group also
published articles against YEVTUSHENKO in the rightist
daily "EL SOL", but the Station felt the articles were
too vitriolic ani unobjective to be a credit to LIANCHOR.
In fact, because of these articles the Station plans to
remove both Identities 3 ana 7 from LIANCHOR; for it is
obvious that both persons have long since lost all traces
of their former leftism and are extreme rightists.

EFFECTIVENESS :

2 ‘ ,
. 8. Views on LIANCHOR Effectiveness by Owner/Director of
Guatemala Daily "EL YMPARCIAL"™:

 
 

   

a. During Easter visit to Guatemala City
so he was told by the owner of “EL IMPARCIAL" t
newspaper was only interested in publishing
articles. The newspaper owner stated that
a well-known personality in Guatemala and also wro |
interestingly. The owner also said that he had pub-
lished one series by Identity-4 because Identity-4 was
a Guatemalan who at one time had been important. However,
the owner pointed out that the other LIANCEOR writers
were unknowns and did not write well. He singled out
Identity-3 as. being a "menace to journalism" because much
of what she wrote amounted to libel or slander.

   
 

 

b. The "EL IMPARCIAL" owner said that he received.
the newspapers "EL DIA" of Honduras, “LA PRENSA GRAFICA"
of El Salvador, "LA PRENSA" of Nicaragua, "LA REPUBLICA” .
of Costa Rica, "LA ESTRELLA" of Panama and "ULTIMAS
NOTICIAS" of Caracas and had noted that these newspapers.

 

all published articles but had not, to his
knowledge, published articles by any of the other LIANCHOR
writers,

 

 

ec. When) explained the co atife nature of
~LIANCHOR , col am THPARCIAL" man told ee tent he «
could never hope to collect fees for His news service .
until the service became both famous and sought after.
The "EL IMPARCIAL" owner advise o find writers
nown in Latin America. fe suggested that if ,
could not afford to pay his writers fees, he
: Should’persuade first class writers to contribute to

. LIANCHOR purely for the prestige of having their material
. published around Latin America. mo, a

 

 
  

‘ 9. Effectiveness of: LIANCHOR Writer Group andi

 
 

Toye eh nD ake .

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH | . _ SECRET HMMA-34792-

 

 

 

Of nine persons who belonged to the group
as of 15 January, three subsequently dropped out because

of differences of nion which developed at group meet-
ings. In additio learaed that persons he had
selected partly because of ‘their leftist records (Iden-
tities 3, 4, 7 and 8) had:long since ceased being leftists
and were prone to submit manuscripts with texts politically
harmful to the image of LIANCHOR. Confused political
thinking and poor writing resulted in r ction of over

20 manuscripts during February-April by and the
case officer. Rejection of manuscriptelin turn angered

and insulted some of the writers.

press group.

 

b. The personalities and character of some of the
writers have presented problems to in directing
and developing the LIANCHOR group into, a productive unit.

Identities 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 had jo be goaded continually

by] at? turn in manuscripts on assigned themes.

Bothg Iden ty=-3 and Identity-7 turned out to be emotional
t times from deep melancholy and

extremists, suffering 4
at other times from inexplainable rages which were re-

flected in their writings. As of this writing the Station
feels that the only reliable members of the group are
Identities 6 and 9, who should be kept as members of the
group as long as LIANCHOR is run as a group cooperative

 

press service. The unreliable but brilliant and versatile
poet/writer/lexicographer Identity=5 should be continued

as a contact of LIANCHOR for occasional emergency use
provided replacement can obtain any cooperation
from Identity-5.5| In summary the LIANCHOR group composed
of Identities 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 has proved ineffective and.

not too productive and the ineffective members should be

replaced.
10. Effectiveness oon |

a. The list of articles and features by
under Separate Cover Attachment "B" is by no means the
measure of the agent's writing and production capability.

After the. agent dusted off and mailed out several of his

old article, series in December 1968 the case officer
to reduce his production in ratio to

: instructed] __]
the manuscripts of other LIANCHOR writers which were
mailed out, The case officer was concerned that LIANCHOR

would appear, to otential client newspapers to be primarily
a vehicle for lengthy political essays in con-
trast to the statement in the LIANCHOR prospectus that
LIANCHOR was a press service combining articles on cultural,
educational, economic and social as well as political topics
by many writers, During the agent's two final months of
service he has been given authorization to write as much

as he can on the Vietnam issue and other topics for the
purpose of building up his name in Guatemala before he
returns there to enter politics.

 

 

 

 

 

 

b. While production of articles was not
weak point, his selection and handling of the LIANCHOR”
press service writers appears to have been weak. He has
been too long on the fringes of the foreign exile group
in Mexico and his contacts among leftists in Mexico are -
no longer significant. In addition, the agent appears to”
have gone the way of many former Latin American Communists.
in that his theoretical solution to some of the political,

economic and social problems of Latin America can no longer

\

be termed leftist.

 

 

£ Gann

 

nO KePnonueriong
Sel

+
A

Ar blilen
 

 

‘CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

    

SECRET | | HMMA-34792°

~

mechanism of LIANCHOR (a cooperative and self-supporting press
service not subsidized by WOFIRM) does not seém operationally
---viable, the LIANCHOR project renewal request will be submitted
fe an administrative and financial roof project for the indi-~-
vidual handling and exploitation of singleton leftist writer

assets.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

3. One information report ated in May, 1968,

based on information acquired by

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

4. Formal Organization of LIANCHOR Press Service:

a.

The Reference "A" project proposal reports all

significant incidents in the development of the
LIANCHOR press service by jana the Mexico ;

 

through the first week of December, 1967, whe
set about bringing together the candidates for
a

SmbSTship in the cooperative press service. As Head-
quarters will recall the project, involved paying a —
salary of U.S. $700 per month td n return for
which he was to persuade a number of leftist and center-
left writers to join togethér as contributors to the
LIANCHOR (Identity-2) press service. The contributing
writers or members of the press service were to agree
to waive fees for a trial period during which the press
gervice was to develop paying clients among Latin
American newspapers and periodicals.

of t

Identity-3, The
the meetings agre

b.
he

 

| held three meetings of candidate members
press service during December in the home of
Whetings were unruly but everyone at

to contribute material to the press

   

, se ubmi#fito editing and control of the material
; by Howe , what with the 20 day Christmas

te

 

hich aralyze all Mexicans from 15 December

to 5 January of each year, none of the LIANCHOR members,

other than Identity-4 submitted a manuscript to
until late January. .

 

 

 

dusted off the best and most timeless of

c.

his fall™l articles and mailed them out with a pro-
spectus to newspapers suggested by third country station
throughout Latin America, At the end of December
became. seriously i111 and the project was dormant un
mid-January. In the latter part of January held

a sober business meeting of the LIANCHOR press”group at

his home and by the end of January the memberg began to

submit manuscripts.

5.

The

 

 
   
  

Search for a Replacement for P/A

was formally terminated in the summer

a
of 1966.” He spent much of his termination bonus on

 

sending his family back to France (the wife is French)
and setting the family up there in an apartment and —
ing his sons in school. Following the termination,

was again placed on salary while WOFIRM subsized th -
publication of a book which he had written in support of

—

 

wma WAT. Sha haat manta wall in Mawinn and

   

Fe ae

sentmensDecremee 8 weber

a3

ODUCTIONS

 

     
104-10071-10324) -

 

    

 

Grassinicniow PROCESSING ACTION

 

 

HE. : .
DISPATCH [| sscust | smmcm
tO :

oe oo Chief, Western Hemisphere Division a MO INOEENG BROURED
a fo Attention: Chief, WH/1 ZZ ONLY QUAITED GES
\ ea - (AN WUOGE INDE UNG
\ BP hasy—- —-ChAed..WH/MHSPAWN ee

Chief of Station, Mexico City \"\ ver

') oe OPBRAT IONAL/LIANCHOR .

ats. Progress Report for December 1967 - iay 1968

ACTION RYOMURID REFERENCES .
Action Required: None; FYI

; .
i: References : A. HMMA-33670, 13 December 1968
‘ B, Mexico City~5688, 25 May 1968

SUMMARY

; 1. During the reporting period the LIANCHOR leftist

t - writer press service produced 35 individual articles and _

ei serialized political feature articles which were distributed
to 20 newspapers throughout Latin America and are known to
have been published regularly by at. least 12 newspapers.
Despite this acceptable production rate, the project has not ,
achieved the objectives set for it by the Mexico Station and
in the Project Outline. ,

2. Prior to submission of a project renewal request in
late June, 1968, the Mexico Station will attempt to convert
“4g the LIANCHOR operation into a more effective and politically
H ‘more leftist operation. Four of,s8ix LIANCHOR press service
| writers will be dropped and P/A LINLUCK will be replaced,
hopefully by Identity-1, a respectedlindependent leftist
H Mexican editorialist for the prestige center-left daily
A : "EXCELSIOR". If by the end of June, 1968, the operational

     
  

° wn
i Ee
: Continued.... <ik
i 3}.
i Attachments: >
i A. Identities (u.s.c.) 3)
: /B. Translation & Articles (u.s.c.) Sie
: C. Handbill, Brochure, Open Letter (u.s.c.) Pee

S

 

Distribution: : q q7/

- C/WHD wo/atta [5 COPY

 

 

 

i <
- C/WH/1 w/atts A, B and C (u.s.c.) =
} 1 - C/WH/MHSPAWN w/atts A, B and C (u.s.c.) et
ne a ' Fe, cee 3

H cmossmeeneio2|8|8©6©6©)©0600UOO™O™~—~—CS oe as reneneeaes |.) (re ~ oo =

; : : ae . . u

; HMMA=34792 cones 3 June 1968 &;
i ee To LASSIEICATION a QS HE NUMBER — *

: SECRET $0-126-38/3

 
 

 

 

 

 

7 nen ns Taras Te CREE ETS CSET T
© CONTINUATION OF } ee i . meres
© DISPATCH SECRET \ HMMA=34792
: \
a] America accepted the book but would not send
his share of the sales, which was to be used
fo)

repay WOFIRM the cost of ublishing the book. in
the late fall of 196g" |apent six weeks in
Guatemala where he redched agreements with the Guate-
malan Defense Minister, Rafael ARRIAGA Bosque, whereby

the Defense Ministry was to pay U.S. $4,000
, for the right to publish 10,000%COpiés of his first
book. The U.S, $4,000 was to be paid by, to

WOFIRM as partial reimbursement of the costs of pub-
the JMROD book. During the visit to Guatemala,
was told by ARRIAGA and other Guatemalan

. government officials that he couli expect a consular

appointment by the summer of 1969.

 

b. Headquarters and the Mexico Station were agreed
that as soon as he ize LIANCHOR and find a
suitable replacemen should be terminated and
leave Mexico. Following the’receipt of the LIANCHOR
project approval in early 1968, the LIANCHOR case officer
told that he was expected to find a replacement
meet ng WOFIRM approval and be ready to turn the opera-
r to his replacement by the end of March, 1968.
proposed Identity-4, who had shown the most
ntérest in the LIANCHOR press service and had been the
first to submit articles. By accident the case officer
was forced to listen to an hour's conversation between
Identity=4 and _Jafter Identity-4 came to
terrupted a meeting between the case officer an
and the case officer sat trapped in a separate
room unbeknownst to Identity-4. From the conversation
the cage officer observed that Identity-4 was actually a
political rightist, believed to be an LNHARP
agent, had grandiose plans for using’ LNHARP funds to
mushroom LIANCHOR into a continent-wide anti-Communist”
movement and was married to a neurotic woman who had
hired a private detective agency to check on her husband's
activities was instructed to quietly ease
Identity-4 out of LYANCHOR, to cease holding group meet=-
ings of LIANCHOR writers and to try to prevent further
contact between Identity-4 and other members of LIANCBHOR.

¢.d| Identity-5 was selected as the next candidate to
replace as P/A. Identity-5 was technically,
linguistically, intellectually and professionally well
qualified to head LIANCHOR. During the period of develop-
ment and assessment of Identity-4 by dentity-5
wrote an excellent article on Soviet intelléctual piracy.
However, Identity-5 proved difficult to contact and
control and turned out to be leading a personal life

which would have detracted seriously from his ability

to administer LIANCHOR[ was told to keep in ~
touch with Identity-5, but to took for still another
candidate.

 

 

With the Station's concurrence went to Guatemala
: during Easter to confer with Guatemalan President, Julio
. MENDEZ Montenegro, and the new Defense Minister concern-
ing his own future oo} The President said he had not
forgotten _—s——sbut would not-be able to give him a
Lo consular post until the outset of 1969. The President
an algo said he would not be opposed to eturning
en to Guatemala and entering politics.

d. In early April ARRIAGA Bosaue’uas exiled to Miami,

 

 
. : 7 . ‘

= - UTP a SOOT 7
_ CONTINUATION OF ° oo, ce |
"DISPATCH | . “sS ECRET

  

 

 

           

Tea Tone

HMMA~34792

e. Upon return to Mexico -he asked Dhether
there was any possibility that he could be kept on after
30 June 1968 for an indeterminate period as LIANCBOR P/A
until some outside job showed up. The case officer said
he would discuse the mat, th Headquarters, pat felt:
that in the interests o & family and his own: .
career it was high time that jtrike out on his own.
Replacements were again reviewed an t was decided that ,
the best candidate would be Identity-1, who had turned °
down membership in LIANCHOR because he wanted immediate
fees for anything he wrote. Identity-6 of the LIANCHOR
group, a friend of Identity-1, war queried as to Identity-1's
personal life and, as far as can Le discovered, Identity=-1
lives a quiet life with his wife and family and is highly
respected in Mexican intellectual circles both as an author/
editorialist and as an independent leftist. Reference "B"
and "PLANS" below report the Station's plans for possible
recruitment and subsequent utilizetion of Identity-1 as
P/A of LIANCHOR.

   
 
  
    

. 6. Production of Articles and Features by LIANCHOR:
Separate cover attachment contains a translation of a
report written J. May 1968 on articles and feature articles pro=-
duced and distributed during. the period 15 December 1968 to ‘

30 April 1968, Case officer comments are included along with
information about articles prepared and distributed in May.

 

7. Involvement in Covert Action Operations Targetted
Against Soviet Poe evgen arch=-Apr :

a. In waren emma ratte! an open letter to Soviet
poet Yevgenyi YEVIUSHENKO asking the Russian to use his.
influence to persuade the Soviet government to-end the
persecution of Soviet intellectuals, artists, writers and

- poets[___  fmanaged to obtain the signatures of stu-
dents, professors, actors, dancers, writers and intellec-
tuals for his open letter and then persuaded the publisher
of his books to print thousands of copies, yhich were
distributed by other assets of the Mexico Station. A
copy of the open letter was published in “EXCELSIOR” on
the day of YEVTUSHENKO's arrival in Mexico for what was
originally billed as a personal trip. Because of the
open letter and critical press coverage of YEVTUSHENKO 's
rude behavior towards the press on arriving at Mexico
City airport, the Russian Ewbassy called a special press
conference the evening of the day of the poet's arrival.
At the press conference YEVTUSHENKO spoke with outrage
of the open letter, carefully dodging a number of questions
asked by the letter, and chided the signers of the letter
for claiming there was absolute literary freedom in Mexico,
asking how there can be freedom anywhere in the world as
long as there is no freedom in Vietnam, YEVTUSHENKO's
remarks about the open letter left no doubt that he had
come to Mexico as a Soviet propagandist and not as a rebel
poet, ;

Lie produced a handbill quoting the

telegr et intellectuals to the "Consultative
‘Conference of Communist Parties" at Budapest, asking for

an end to Soviet persecution of intellectuals in the USSR.
The handbill featured two pen and ink drawings of imprisoned
Soviet poets Sinyavsky and Daniel. He also arranged for

the printing in Spanish of an authoritative study of inci-
dents surrounding the Galanskov-Dobrovolseky trial in

‘brochure form, Thousands of copies of the handbill and
Leen ene Ata dintgedhuénd hu Qtatian aaaeta during

 

 

 
