14-00000
oe
ft

“Enric

 

oe , a 8 91Y

 

  

 

SERIRIDIDIUTS ieee: optepeerens

)

" rn
iow iaiidtD = -

gs
eenterttititinrses cos.

 

per CSN 43-25 DISPATCH NO Comal...

WIAD
(SPAGUFr ata GA Fe POUCH | KAPOK_& £937
Lo SECRET ! BGFINESSE
CLASSIFICATION
nace es 5-4

TO Chjef, ve DATE 11 August 1955

Via Chief of station,(——?P .
FROM Chief of Base, ve ae

aes

(5-22
SUBJECT: General Operational

secoric- U.S, Embassy and Italian Fetroleum Industry.

1, Following are DENTER's comments (22 July 1955), which he asserts reflect
rumors circulating in "«nowledgeable circles" in Rome, on the alleged activities
of the aubassy in the matter of Italian petroleum resourcas. &

World leun Congress opposed Chl, are now presenting a united front with

{TEI in his opposition to the exploitation of Italian petroleum deposits
by Anorican intorests. This new situation is the result of confidential Or
mation and advic rnished to the Italian patroleum groups and to MATTEI elt
by Reaigto DaniloAGRILLO. GALLO, vice-director general of political aff in
the Italian Foroigh Ministry, is a former "squadrista” and pot of Galeasso ?
through whose influence GRILLO reached the upper echelons of the Foreign Ministry.

foe

& The great majority of Italian petroleum companies, which until the IV

   
 

    

: . S

3. When it waa learned in Rome that hrs CE was to be of inted Ambassador

to Italy, a secrot mooting was held in the haméfof Valerio Jun{icHORGHESE to devise

wayo and means of latching onto the new ambassador, At this modéting GRILLO and
three othor "gontiluomini" were chosen to "get in with" the ambassador. These
individuals, im Rome's high society, are known as "sommozzatori" (frog-men or

under-wator demolitions men), .

  

4, Uiiliw bas reportedly succesded in gaining good entrea to the Ambassador
and takes advantage of this to monitor her official activities. One result of
GRILLO's contact with the Ambassador has beon, according to these same rumors,
tha change of tactics adopted by the Italian petroleus companies toward the
Agoricans,.

af

. . a

5. American petroleum interoste, allegedly being determined to absorb all =;
Italian pstroleum preduction, already have their reprosentatives sounding out =]
Italian pstroicum personalitios with a proposition invol. Amorican purchase of 3i
controlling otock in the Italian companies, /Gr. Uffy Han > prosident of Bl
API, Copco d'Italia, Raze, 4s one of the inportant eal rs have received euch 21
& proposition, PESSTTI discussed the matter with/ Cems : CO, high-ranicing Bi
is

$

fonctionary ef the Italian Ministry of Industry. LO ‘MONACO immsdiately informed
MATTEL, end a conclave of Itglian pstrolem industry directora was called fortindth,

. Bor tte te ot
‘SS GR5ET ay | s ,
189 88 5) OBA CUASSIFICATION _ HUN i ae . rf

Bas gee
Cycler ROI-;BIEF

See ee nee nee eee meee re ee er ec ee . ¥:

_

a:

it

f

 
 

“{104-10071-4012 Ce we nod
' RETURNTO CIA
_ i ’ Background Use Only Do.
: Do Not Reproduce Cols -
Satan iilthtitindananceastn een eonin heannnaaaaes, eoereneeys a

De OC Aston 0) secusr |

ROUTING AND BECGRD SHEET A
nn 2 Va
y = Creal. f3/

t

|

|

i

  
  

 

 

_ ( tes 357

| COMMENTS {Member sock comment to thow from ahem |
whom Orow @ fine exons eolvas ofter exth enaureni.}

 

ce eee erp er OF 7g

 

 

: t
to ‘ 7+ ied :
i ! :
i i '
: : t
-t . - I.
: 4.
j .
fue :
4 i
'
1

 

fe ee ene ee nee te cee ene qunn SS

S., 610 “Gee” [) seen “E) conrivenriaa = | = cA el od |

© 8 COWRRAGEIAT “UOTE OFT R ome Gamer
cpp we tee ee ee we ee ee ee lea seee

 
OCHO apt seetssetttaryrsss tocar

re bfeke
rns"

SECRET

Page 2

For reasons of secrecy the mooting took place in a locality in tha suburbs of
Roma early in July. hoe
sd

6. Ambassador LUCK's intense actiyaty in favor of the seven big petroleum
firas has slowed down since the fall ofjs0cLBA, but several of hor representatives
have bogun to mansuver with theyzeea rmment. The attitude of Italian petro-
leva circles, informed as they of the alleged Anorican manouvering, is hostile.
They imow that the Amsricans financially backed the Right in the recent Siciilion
elections and fear that through wide uso of the dollar, the Americans will succeed
in demolishing oll Italian resistance, Mistrust has reached such a point that a
few days ago, when an American agent (of an o1l1 company) asked for an appointment
with KATTEI, tho latter stated that he was out of town and immediately took off
for the Azalfitana rivicra. )

wr a Fats

ema & Ger — AGE AAS) ~ —/

ZeMq Ger AGS eee rometgt UALEITHS. He bogan te work ingo the
Rooistance after september 8 of that year, being careful at the same 6 to
"keep in® with the Gormans, As part of the process his wife became the mistress
of an Austrian cantads who vas an important officer the Gernen SD. Whon At.
becesa cloar that Allied victory was certain, KATToI paid five on lire

(1944 rate of oxchange) to a DC partisan leader for the title of DC partisan
chief and the rank of gonoral of the gesistance in the CNL. HATTEL's appointment
wao O.K.'d by Gen me and bol i SN. The latter is now HATTEL's right-
hand gan. ) } :

Propared by: Montecchi

“ ) Lester A. clmpson

DLatribation:
Leash
2-~Roasa

 
