 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

  

Cpt +

 

@

(2)

 

ste Cama ipe ey Te TE

 

Address: Moscow. Subject said that he has
provided the address previously. He also
has it listed in his diary which he loft
with his mether when he was homes last
Christuas. Sea above for current address,
Telepnonast She had a telephone in tha
apartment. Subject does net recall the
number.

Apartaent: ‘See above. Subject considered
tha apartment nice by Soviet standards,
Subject was not sure if the father lived
there. :

Servants: None.

Meals: Sne usually ate lunch at the Lebedav
Institute.

Dentist: Subject recalls that she once went to

the dentist while he was in Moscow. He could
not recall any details, .
Cluys; Subject was a member of the Komsonol
and enjoyed visiting the HololJoznnya Cluds on
Gorkiy Cl. ‘This was a club primarily for
members of the Konsomol where they had
available many of the popular currant Westorn
records.

-Sports: Skiing, swimnaing and skating.

Theaters Enjoyed the theater,

‘Vacation: Every summer. Arranged through

the Institute.

Hobbies: American jazz. .
Personal friends: Subject had no specific
Ainforzation..-~

Smoken: Subject docs not believe that she

smokes.

Alcohol: Normal. .

Casual Sex: See comment abova. __
Transportation: Usually took taxis, metro or
the bus. No car.

Pinancial: According to Subject, she seamed

- to spend money faster than sha earned it.

Be Political Data Cet ~

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

   

Fel oO Qa
~ mic t

Member of the Komsomol. Subject did not know
if she held any spacial position, although she
Gid mention once that she had introduced sone
one ata meeting, indicating that poasibly she
held seme sort of position.

FP, Job Data: Nothing other than already notad above.
G. Miscellaneous:

Travel: She once visited Poland with a student
group.

“- “43, In returning to the topic of MARTIN and Subject's
contact with him, Subject reported that MARTIN usually did
most of the talking, ile discussed Life in the Soviet Union and
froquently nis attempts to get a divorce. (when Subject was in
Moscow in July he learned that MARTIN had finally received his
divorce.) MARTIN once told Subject that ha was permitted to
geceive Time and Life magazines so long as he agreod not to
ghow then to anyone. Subject and RENNINGER once referrad to

the allegations MARTIN and “MITCHELL were homosexuals. HARTIN
stated emphatically that this was not true, H-« said that he had
some sex problems, but that he was certainly net a homosexual.
With regard to his defaction, MARTIN said that he had contacted
soreone prior to his defection, Subject understood that no

money was involved and that HARTIN had not. been an in-place agent.

 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
74-0000

"a

    

Khon he met her just prior to his
departure, she told him that she had

trangferred to tha Minkotry of Foreign | .
Affairs. - .

  
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
     

(14) Arrests: None known, ROYZIN once Po
mentioned that she had once seen caught {
taking money from the Institute. Subject
had been told that situations such as
this were frequently used to enlist the

. cooperation of employees for reporting on
dee pew tpt fn the felloe employees, etc.

 

 

 

8. Physical Description

(1) Apparent aget 20-21 ; z - oe
(2) Weight: ca. 100 Los. .
(3) Height: ca. 5° 4°
(4) E2thnic backqround: Opviously Slavic.
igh cheek bones and black hair. -
(5) Bulld: slight.
+ (6) Complexion: Pair, -
(7) Bair: Black. Subjact added that she does
dye her hair and the natural color could be :
. anything. :
(8) Eyes: light colored, either blue or green. . . we ee ve
(9) Nose: amall
(10) Pace: round. :
(11) Lips: Mediun
(12). Teeth: k&ven and in qood condition. —
(13) Clothes: For a Russian girl, certainly
: above average, Subject felt that she
. dressed above her income. lis had no
- @widence, however. °
(14) Health: Subject a very athletic person
. . @nd always in excallent healt*. A very

 

 

- - Pright and lively person. a
(15) Special features: one. - Siete

€. Curriculua vitae SS

   

 

already given above.

   

D. Personal and Private Data

 

   

|
|
Fs Subject could provide nothing | supplenerting that :
 

(2)
3)

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 

(4)
45)

(6)

mM

(8)

(3)
(10)

qa)

(12)

(13)

 

EGRET.

  

Nickagames;: Mone other than “Alla.”

DPoz: Subject was not certain but
believes thst 319 was Lorn in Moscow

and had alweys Lived there. He did

not know her exact date of birth. le -
estinated that {t must have been about
1941,

Citizenship: Soviet.

iden Cocuments: Subject never saw any

of her docwrents. :

Father: As noted above, Alla's mother
had had two huguands. de assumes that one
was Alla's father, Har father was alao
supposedly working for the ds, accord-
ing to MARTIN.

Mother: Subject naver met her. Subject
only knew that Alla Ilvec with her nother
in the apartment in which he had visited,
Siblings: Subiect does not think that
she had any siblings. . ‘
Spouse: Never married. :

Education: . Subject knaw that she had had
gome specialized training after completing
high school, but does not believe that sha

‘ @ver attended the University.

Religion: Atheiat. She wore a amall gold
cross given to her by her grandmother, but,
Subject explained, that this had no religi-
ous meaning.

Languages: Rusgian (native}. She told
Subject once that she planned to learn:-
German, Based on thea brief note in German
recentiy received from her, she apparently
has mace some progress. She also spoke a
very little English. Subject dees not know
if she had ever studied English or where |
she might hava learned it. :
Employment: Subject did not know if she
had ever worked anywhere prior to joining
the Lebadev Institute. Subject did not
know her exact position thare, though she

. was in the First Section or the Party Office.

   

et etatettmennnnneetenat mretneentatnet ane =A ent A Nt tens Seon on ena MENA Seemed ens ce tee eat semes angles Gos oesnumunmnlg tremens

aSiapeh es a tvenbo saat

   
      
          

     

 
74-0000

  

Siu;

Soviet Union. For example, on the evening tuey attended
the Bolshol, Subjact noticed his friand William (5111)
PARRIS, an American aexcnanga student at the Moscow State
University. Subject had known hia at Princaton University.
Subject said, °On, there ia Hill.“ She imeediately said,
®What did you.sa, about SOKOLOVSZIY?"° In otner words, she.
knew perfectly well that SOKOLOVSKIY and dilliam MAKPIY
were one and the same, She was ooviously eavarrasaed and
tried without success to cover up her blunder, MARTIN

‘later told Subject that “Alla* had called Sim that evening

to tell him of ner blunder. Sha also onee asked Subject
4f be were really going to return to the United States.
This could, of course, be interpreted as a defaction piten.
Subject feels that it wag more of a casual personal reaark.

9. According to Subject, "Alla" seemaid to him to be
muecn too friendly, while at the sxene tima not sincerely
friendly. In Pepruary, Subject's suspicions had mounted
to a point wnere he dacided to ask nis Soviet colleague in
the Institute, Ilya ROYZIN (phonetic), ££ ne could check
with some of his contacts to determine if “Alla* waa in
fact belng used against him for sone purpose. Subject
Claimed that he already knew at this point through conversa-
tions with his Soviet colleagues that ROYZIN could check
without bringing it to anyone's attontion. Shortly after-
wards, ROYZIN returned to Sudject with the advice to stop
seeing bor. He cautioned Subject that he should not mention
to anyone that he nad talked to him and cartainily not to say
anything. Subject claims that he stopped dating her after
this point, but did occasionally seo ner in the lunch roos.
After Subject stopped seeing her she called hin at ais
hotel every two or three days. at no point did MARTIN
really push Subject on continuing the relationship.

1G. Subject described their relationship as perfectly
natural for two young people interested in aach other.
They seldon discussed anything of importance and never
discussed his work at the Institute. Subject went heme

“with her to her apartment on two separate occasions. Once

she asked him to spend the night with her, but he indicated -
that he should gat back to his motel. Subjact dascribed her
as pogsibly a bit more forward sexually than otnerg tnat he
had met, but that their relationship was perfectly normal
and certainly nothing that could be used against him since

 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
74-0000

  
      
 
      
 
     
     
     
      
 
      
 
     
     
     
     
 
     
 
   
 
      
     
      
 
    
 
 
    
    
 
     
      
 
     
   

 

he was ea single man. The apartzent was actually her mother's,
aone room apartment with an alcove for the bed and a small
kitchen. Subject never met ner motner and is not sure if

bor father lived in the apartaent witn the mother. Subject
does recall that her mothor had had two husbands although as
did not know if the first one nad uled or if they had been
civorced. Subject heard from someone that her father vorked
for the «GB. Subject could provide absolutsly no further
information on this point. °Alla‘ never seenad to be push-
ing tne relationship even though she did seem curious about
soze of Buoject's friends. Once she mentioned to Subject vt
that they should not be sean toyether in the lunch room since
this might be a risk for her.

11. Subject last saw °Alla™ alone just before ha left
the Soviet Union. He was downtown one day and met her by
chance. They. stopped. for coffea and chatted a while. The
only thing of any significance noted was that sha had been
dismissed from the Lebedev Institute and was then working
for the Ninistry of Poreign Affairs. During the sumer,
Subject and RENNINGER again visited Moscow for a woek (15 <=
20 July 1965}. Thay drove froa Triesta to Prague and then
on into Moacow via train. Arrangements were made through
Inturist. They visited the Lebadev Institute for a day,
as well as friands. in Moscow, Nothing occurred on this visit.
ef any particular note. Since his return, Subject has
received a brief letter from "Alla” in elamentary Garman,
atating simply that she had heard that he nad been in Moscow
end that sae was sorry that they had not seen each other.
The return address indicated that she had moved:

Hoskwa #-36
Profsojusnaja Ul. 15
Korpus 1 Kuartira 10 :
22, Subject’s responses to the questions contained
in the "Personality Data Debriefing Guide’ producad the
following additional information:
A. Basic Biographic Data

(1) Name: Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

at eaten ett a elton natn agen atts cen Rett tentnene Seeenttttinet® on mrnvnt tue atin scunmenenemnenneennit an mapbeamtin in teneeetete 7
 

       
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 

Attachment to CSCI~316/05060-65

Dr. Roscoa Beryl WHITE
Interview 25 October 1965

1. Sabject arrived in Moscow during the early part
ef November 1963 on a ten month exchange fellowship
arxanqed between the National academy of Sclences and
the Soviet Academy of Sciencas. Subject waz assigned to
tha Lebedev Pnysics Institute in Moscow and the major
portion of hig life wnile in Moscow revolved around his

‘work at the Institute or various individuala met through
the Institute. Subject ate Lunch in the Institute lunch
room or cafeteria and usually at about the same time each
day, souetime between 1:00 and 1:30. Approximately two
weeks after he had arrived at the Institute, Supject and
his colleague, Dr. George RENNINGER, who waa at the
Institute on a similar ter month exchange fellowship,
ware approached by Vlaiimir Anatolovich SOKOLOVUKIY
while waiting in the cafeteria linea, SOKOLOVSKIY, who
identified himself as an Amarican, said that he nad heard
that they were in the Institute and wanted to maet ther.
During this first conversation Subject claims that
SOROLOVSKIY told them that he was in fact William danilton
MARTIN and went on to axplain soma of the superficial da--

tails surrounding his defection to the Soviet Union in
1960. MARTIN told them that if they did not consider hin
too tainted ha would velcome the opportunity of talking ~
to some Americans. Ua felt that there were many facets
of his experiences while in the Soviet Union which he would
' like to talx about but which he could not discuss with nis

‘Geviet friends. Either on this occasion or later, MARTIN
mentioned that Bernon HITCHELL, who had defected with MARTIN,
was living in Leningrad. .

. 2. Approximately a week later, Subject met MARTIN again
dm the lunch room, MARTIN reported that following his first
Se - eneounter with Subject and Renninger he had been called into
. the Party office at the Institute, They apologized to hin
for not having warned him in advance that Subject and
Renninger ware being assigned to the Institute, since they
were certain that Subject would. have wanted to avoid then.
They told MARTIN that it was perfectly permissible for hin
to talk to them, but that he should definitely not reveal his

 

 

 

 

‘aur anrtiooner Se

 

 
 

 

Hh ESB A LEI LORE ON eo ne ee mi Nate ime een mes teem a

a nner nse te nneennnteememnntneneetin empath SunrmennrmenenmeTey treet eres
ny

   

Phe 5

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attentiou:s Mr. 8. J. Papich

SUBJECT: Bernon Perguson MITCHELL
William Hamilton MARTIN
Hiscellaneous Information Concerning

1. Roference is made to your communication,
bearing the avove caption, dated 3 May 1964, with
reference to an intarview of Dr. Roscoe “ITE to
obtain additional identifying data regarding “ALLA®
(your file 62-306214). |

2. Dr. Waite was located in Trieste and intar-
wiewed by one of our field representatives. Attached
4s a memorandus containing pertinent portions of the
report of our representative, entitled “Or. Roscoe
Baryl White - Interview 25 Octobor 1965,” in which he

is referred te as thea subject except in specifica instances

in which reference is sade therein to "Alla.*

3. The Hational Security Agency 1a also being
provided a copy of the above interview.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Pee
Janes egies

 

 

 

 

CBCE-316/05060-65

Attachment

Prepared in CI/SIG - .

Distribution:

2+ FST

1 = Cfct Y

3 - CI/SIG (1-STG 356; 1-Mr. Kergel; l- “r. Gottschling)
1 = CI/tSN (dunmy)

l= CI/RtA *

 

i
{
t

 

 

 

 
 

 

wii.

true identity to than nor should na give them his address in
Moscow since there was the possibility taat trey nad Lesa
sent to thy Soviet Union to assassinate him, Quite natural-
ly they also wanted to know what Martin had discussed with
Subject and Ranainger. As a gonorel rule, Suvjact sav
MARTIN dn the lunch root every week or two for the entire
period that be was in Hoscow. On carcain occasions it
appeared that MARTIN would avold talking to Subject. Based
On AARTIN's actions, Surject aszuned thda usually depended
on wao was present in the lunch rooms, Subject adied at tuis
point that thetr discussions with MARTIN were always in
English.

3. ARTES made Lt cofiaitely clear to Suaject taat
he was interested in gutting out of the Soviet Unlon. La
deserived life in the USSR ag a constant qanu with the
Soviet officials, HARTI falt that he had only been able
to kesp his head above water while there becauss of nis
knowledge of Soviet lav. He explained to Suvject that ne
had devoted a great dual of tins atudyin: Soviet law and
had used his knowledga to protect hlaself, Tae Soviets
were fraquently at a loss when confronted with quotations
from thair own laws in totel conflict with actions which
they wero trying to tuaposea on MARTIN. Subject waa once
asked to write a lettor to NARTIH's parents asking thea to
put pressure om the Soviets and the Preas to help in ob~
taining his release.

4. MARTIN also described in great dotail to Subject
ifs ia general withia the Soviet Union an‘ whet the aver=
aye Soviet citizen aust face every day. It vas obvious to
Subject that MARTIN oad boen greatly disilluaioned follow-
ding nis arrival in tho USS when oe found a society totally
different from what ha had anticipated prior to his departure
froa the United States. The Soviets had exerted considar-
able pressura oa Subject to participate in various anti-uU.3.
radio programs or to write anti-U.S. articles. After aucr
discussion back and forth, MARTIN agread to write something
L£ taney would promise to publish it without editing. He
wrote what he considered a vary o»jactive cenzarison of life

splat caghnscrscteenserp ayaa

 

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   

 
74-0000

  
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
     

tee et

wa wri i

f.

 

in the USSR and that in the U.S. After having submitted
‘this article he was never approached again on this topic.

5. Regular contacts between Subject; RZHNNINGER and
MARTIN continued in the lunch room with general conversations
such as tnoge noted above until December or early January i {
1964. At this point, MARTIN asked Subject if ne or RENKINGER ; :

_ would go to the U.S. Embaasy to ask them if there were any :
way in which thsy could assist him in leaving the Sovict
‘Union legally or otherwise. Subject noted that RENNINGER
had already contacted the U.S. Embassy following the first
meeting with MARTIN to report on their conversations with
him and the fact that he was in Moscow.

 

6. Aleo at about tho same time, probably early January,
Subject was standing in tha lunch room lino (Subject always
referred to it as tha lunch room rather than a cafeteria)
when ha saw MARTIN togethor with an attractive young girl
about 20 or 21 years of ago. Thoy stopped to chat for a
moment and MARTIN introduced Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.
Subject euphasizted that this was entirely casual and that
their conversation at this meeting lasted for only a few
minutes. A few daye or possibly a week later, MARTIN saw
Subject in the lunch room and mentioned that “Alla“ had
found him quite a handsome individual. MARTIN mentioned
this only in passing and in no way, as far as Subject was
concerned, attempted to force "Alla" on Subject. Subject
was equally impressed with "Alla" and during the following
few days made’ several inquiries anong his Soviet colleaques
in the Institute. No one had anything particular to say
about her other than that she was rather active socially and
had many friends in the Institute. At this point.Sudject
dig not know where she worked at the Institute. -

oa . 7. Sometime during the latter part of January 1964

“poe . . Subject had his first date with "Alla.* Subject could not

recall exactly how this was arranged, but he believes that

ae : he met her in the lunch room and asked her.to go on a trolka

‘ ride with him. This was followed by five or six other dates

with her over the next seven or eight weeks. They went to a
film once, the Bolshoi once, the opera once, and: restaurants
on two or three occasions.

@ After a while Subject noticed that she was particularly
interested in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the
