 

B. 1 told him that the export license appli-
cations are very detailed and that we would get
him samples of the forms, I said these would
have to be filled out correctly, without evasion
or subterfuge. F advised him that the data
invelved in an export license of this sort is
confidential and is available only to the U.S.
Government officials involved in the matter and
te the persons directly related to the particular
transaction. :

C. 1 told him that it is not possible to give
him a definitive reply concerning the required
data which would appear on the commercial shipping
docuhents, since this varies from destination to
destination. I said I had seen many shipping
documents covering arms which merely listed the
fact that the shipment consisted of a given sumber
of firearms and listing the weight. I suggested
that when he has a consignee in mind he arrange
to check the shipping documents of arms purchases
legitimately ordered for that consignee to see
what they contained, since in most cases, the
shipping documents are prepared to satisfy the
legal requirements of the country of destination,
He said he would do this, but commented that he.
wants to avoid providing lists of serial numbers
which could embarrass a friendly goverament if
the arms are picked up by the Cuban Government and
eventually are traced to this particular shipment.
I told him that we cannot give him a hard answer
on this question at this time, since a great deal
depends on the ostensible destination of the aris;
that we would have to insist that the shipment
follow normal legal patterns; but that since we
would have a list of all the arms in the export
permit application by serial number, the problem
of an additional listing on the shipping documents
would probably have to be resolved in terms of the
consignee country’s requirements.

4, He appeared to be reasonably well satisfied with

the replies given him and we signed off with mutual good
wishes for the New Year,

 
 

104-10180-10095

 

i
i

emda yaar a nare un sscrmaem tan ee mam atin

 

. lee
2 January 1965 “ot

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

1. On 31 December 1964 1 tried to phone RAY at
767-6138 in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was not at home
and I left a message for him te call Carlos Andrews
(Charles Anderson) at 628-1899 in Washington between
.1200 and 2400 on 1 January 1965. .

2. He phoned promptly at noon on 1 January (collect).
I advised him that Andrews was not here, but that I was

acting in his stead. I did not give RAY a name during
this conversation.

3. XX said that I had.replies to the three questions
he had put to Andrews as follows:

A. If the U.S, Government is asked by a
friendly government for an opinion as to whether
it should import arms from the U.S. for RAY*s
benefit, we would reply that our position is one
of neutrality. If requested to give an opinion
of RAY, we would reply that we consider him to
be a serious individual of sound ideology. RAY
said that this was not all he wanted, but felt
it would be adequate. I said that the fact that
he has a commitment from us to permit the legal
fiction of the arms export on his behalf is
probably the best argument he can offer any
friendly government. I pointed out we could go
no further than being neutral concerning the act
of exportation because we would not want to apply
any implicit or explicit pressure on a friendly
government in this matter, since we feel that it
must judge the matter in terms of its own policies

‘and national interests.
 

5. The information given to RAY (paragraph 3, above),
with the exception of my own expertence (so labelled in
’ paragraph 3), was checked out with Mr. John Crimmins, State
Department Cuban Coordinator in a telephone conversation
on 31 December 1964 between Mr. Edward Marelius, which I
monitored on another instrument.

OS

COPS WH(SA

 

W6e
