13-00000

 

 

 

. that the problem with him (the American) i

SECRET

for the Soviet Union, and now he (the Soviet) does not know what to

do with him (the American) , because they have to, await for an answer

‘from Washi ngton.

Silvia DURAN: agrees the same prob ten exists with the Cubans,

 
  
  

that he does not know

anyone’ in Cuba and therefore if that is true it will be difficult

 

for him ‘to get a visa for Cuba, because he yas ‘thinking of proces -

sing his visa (For the Soviet Union), because he knew it would

_require waiting a Jong time for his visa to the Soviet Union white.

- in Cuba, and from there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet ‘said

the thing is that if his wife right now were in Mashington she

would receive her visa right now, or permission, from the Soviet -

Union, to return to her country, she is going to receive her visa in

Washington but having this visa, she could communi cate to any place

this permission, for example here or any place she could receive it

(visa or permission), but right now they do not have them.

‘Silvia DURAN says certainly and they cannot give a letter either

because they do not know if the visa will be approved. The Soviet
says he cannot give a letter or recommendation either because he
does not know him (the American) and asks to be excused for

bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is all right and many thanks. -

c. 28 September 1963 (Saturday), 1151 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET _

Soviet. - She.says that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North

American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait a

 

minute. ‘Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone--and “conments in
Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take the.
number. down--Si lvia DURAN then says the American citizen is going
to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first ‘speaks |
Russian and the Soviet’ speaks English. They continue in English.
The American talks broken Russian and says I was in your Enbassy and
spoke to your Consul. dust a minute. A Soviet takes the Phone | and.
asks the American in English what does he want? The Anerican says.
please speak Russian. The Soviet says what else do you want? -The
American says I was just now at your Embassy and they took my
address. The Soviet says I know that. The American, in hardly
- recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I went to the
Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.
The Soviet says why don't you come again and leave your address
with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The American says

I'l] be there right away.

d. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1031 hours Mexico City time.

An unknown male (American) calls the Soviet Embassy, the Military

 

Attache's number, 15-69-87, and says to an unidentified Soviet
respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and talked to your

Consul.. They said that they would send a telegram to Washington,

10

SECRET
 

 

sons,

 

 

SECRET

Silvia DURAN explains the same thing to him. This fan “says to
leave a name and telephone number ‘and says he will call back.
Silvia DURAN gives the telephone 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate).

nd states she has

  

She also takes advantage of the conversati

moved and wants to advise the Soviet Embas: of her change of -

address so that she can receive the Soviet Embassy? s putletin.

   

The man says to call KOUKHARENKO to give her new address , then he
asks the name of the Consul or Cultural Attache. Silvia DURAN says’
the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number is 14-13-26.

The man says thanks.

b. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1626 hours Mexico City time.

An unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks

 

Silvia DURAN if the American had been there.: Silvia DURAN says he

is there now. The Soviet says the American showed papers from the

. Consulate in Washington, that he wants to-go to the Soviet Unfon

and be there for-a long time with his wife, who is Russian, but

the answer has not come from Washington in respect to this problem,
and according to this procedure it takes four or five months, but
without having permission from the Soviet Union they should ask, or —
better said, they cannot issue a visa there without asking Washing~
ton. However, according to this man, he showed a letter indicating

he was a member of an organization.in favor of Cuba and that the

_ Cubans said that they cannot issue a visa without his -having a visa

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

d>teurRet

 

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

14. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final Precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of evidence

on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM : ‘what was the

‘totality ‘of CIA Mexico' s coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the af ter-

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15." -The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be “OSWALD, ‘consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 Septenber 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico Cit time.

. Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the |
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on

his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whom he was
talking there ‘because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him a visa without further
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET
13-00000

if + . +
soe : , oe CtN

10. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire

a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept, -

 

 

as we] as~ photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was

conducted t by. ‘the. Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after. the assass ina-

  

| oo tien, going ‘back to materials From August 1963. It is, therefore , firm
that. there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD. Samy time during his

Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover; athough it had made a

 

a cabled request on 15 ‘October, the Mexico station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one fron Headquarters--which did not:

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

 

. Ve buvitg Enis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
by the monitor’ and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the

| - .interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD

 

was a Navy and. FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially

‘of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based on

 

content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the

monitor--and this was not an insignificant element because of the

 

memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because. the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET.
SECRET

12 It must be stressed that the voice intercept. and photographic

coverage was not (and. normally is not) processed in. "real time. "- The

"means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything:

 

 

 

 

but the spot reporting ‘of items judged by the mo tor to be of more than: -
ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summ 1 /1ogs Full texts of -

selected items require consultation of the tape ‘and. either a full tran-

 

scription or full trans lation or. both. Photo € verage tends
available in quantity Tots which requires scanning a and selection | on. a
rapid’ and accelerated basis in four or five day peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normal ly operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of

a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
“tions | on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy , during which the speaker said

he was Lee OSWALD.“ It was this informati on reported by the Station to

Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voice intercepts: it coupled the
data with descriptive information it had acquired from a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of a male individual, apparently an
American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1 October. °
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident -
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced from

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed,.was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

Embassies in Mexico city.

SECRET

sensitive intel Higence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

CIA and“ Mextcan™ security ty authori ties, against the - soviet cand ( Cuban

 

 

 

' 3. Under the extraordinary press of ef fort. 0. develop information

on the assassin and the assassination, copies: of the photograph were

 

made available by CIA’ s Mexi co Station Chief. ‘on the afternoon, of

 

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later | that days _
assertedly on the decision of the ‘Ambassador , copies. were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval

Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the: ongoing

. investigation. One photograph , cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's. mother) in Dallas on the >
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4, The Warren Coimission's report cescribes the sequence of events »
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B). which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD" s allegation that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conc lusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more .

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET
$04-10414-10236}

 

SECRET

2 May 1975

 

 

. SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
: Conmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

"REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr:

E. Harry Knoche,
15 April 1975 (Attachment A) : cel

  

 

 

1. Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to .

reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual

 

~data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

oN,

oo : Background
2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination

 

‘of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and
at ; : 1
af introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1. The photograph

, (together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly

 

1 See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassination
' of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 6917.

 

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

: double in his activity in Mexico City.

SECRET

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been

nurtured by the media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina-

: tion, The photograph, acknowledged nov not to be RUBY, has continued to ;

preoccupy "specialists" and has  becane the centerpiece of another

hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "framed" by the use of a

2°

Lee Harvey OSWALD ~ Lenorsind on Mexico City Stay

6. ATthough in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay tn
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of

2 October 1963,-at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man

originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by

the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with
the information it deve loped about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with

Headquarters action on that information.

7. From all credible evidence known to this time (none, incidentally,

_ added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),

Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--
about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of whith is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET
13-00000

 

 

SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
small commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the

Hotel Conpferci o--where he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and

 

 

detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mex an: authorities and

  

the’ FBI, after the assassination, éstablished that in the recollection of

all hotel personne! he left early and returned late each day of his stay.

   

8. Assuming » and al lowing for the fact of Tate arrival wey ;
departure; that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39.
hours), there: remain ‘some 78 hours: of activity to be accounted for.
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

 

 

agent) coverage(either unilateral or from Mexican liaison}

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files”
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of
8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information -on
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.

SECRET
