 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT

The Intelligence Medal of Merit may be awarded for the
performance of especially meritorious service, or for an act
or achievement conspicuously above normal duties, which has

contributed significantly to the mission of CIA.
 

[td f0129-10012],

CITATION

Rm 03 _}-

is hereby awarded the -
INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT

for meritorious service during & period of international
tension. Voluntarily assuming the hazards of hostile
action, he performed his tasks with high professional
competence and outstanding dedication. His devotion
to duty throughout the operation is in keeping with the
best traditions of service to the Agency and the United

States,
74-0000

11 August 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
©
SUBJECT :( RODRIGUEZ, Emilio AS
Peibhhe

REFERENCE: Memorandum of N. H. Lyon of 12 January 1962
and Memorandum of George O'Rourke dated 7 September 1965

1. At the request of the Subject and the WH Division, the writer
acted te arrange for an appropriate priefing,to be given the ubject's
two soils, (Emilio A. Rodriguez, ny and WGoseph Ross Reaeiguer) concern-
ing the award of an Intelligence Medal of Merit to their father. This

briefing was accorded the boys on 10 t in a.room off the Main
Reception office at which was present (Extension 6223),
the Subject and the two sons identified above. Fal

03 2. ppropriate security reminders and instructions were given
Rodriguez )and his sons concerning the discussion of the medal and the
activities which led to its awarding. After the briefing, all award
materials were returned to the Executive Secretary, HMAB, for continued
safekeeping. ~.

 

Toit ita
Laurence G. Parr
Chief, Employee Activity Branch

bsk

 
74-0000

CITATION

o3
MR. (EMILIO A. RODRIGUEZ)

is hereby awarded the -
INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT

for meritorious service during a period of international
tension. Voluntarily assuming the hazards of hostile
action, he performed his tasks with high professional
competence and outstanding dedication. His devotion
to duty throughout the operation is in keeping with the
best traditions of service to the Agency and the United

States.
