   
  
   
      
   
 
   
  

1.

US to Eeadcuarters area. Secauza of the incidents raised in rcaferenand
ecaulas, 35-¥3lL as derovatory inforxation on ffla conceming the family

Zealmuarters is new trying to arrange to have HCSMAT? transferred?

of Subject’s wifes, Lt ts not possible to converts JOSMATA to @ Staff agent
os famlopse ab this tice. Seadquerters is attemting to arranga to ive
SUEKATL bronuget. te. Wentaravtens is. pis. oresant.statcs. andar a.new. HH. Project...
Loa will be nobitied Ister of the. dotaiis of: this proposal ‘after it-kas—
been Gebermined unetcer such. an attempt will be successful... In the mean— -~
tine, no indication. shonld de given to SORATE, comeernsag 1 what is being ©. -
cone regarding iis’ fotos asaigmatt.. .

 
   

+. 5 :* *!
oes: : eee 5
> 2

20 Sourve io: “order to-tlear ap Ms.seesd arity fle, Sb will be
to have a statenent | fren the field, - Figned.b by tha 2 Shisf of. Statior,]

  

    

 

   

ayaliiting the Station's astinate of the socerlt sod OMIT and bis wife. -
ts te iomnonted that this mancrandm be prepared a3.socn a5 possible and
Sorsarmed to Heacquartars. : .

33 At the sane tine, Headquarters is writing to
RYBAr, sirbea couy a@sicing for az
oz Nona! 3 wits. /

 

 

ni 5d 4 22 bil

 

d/3/fericof LUCA eITE ings or

 

 
 

Teall 0293) °

. SV, fat i]
LL DEG
ast ANN ff

Le

 
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
      

e ~~
1322

ow i

 

 

 

 

 

Chief, WAD

Harold R. NOEMAYR (pe)

 

21-3.

1. Seadquarters is now trying to arrange to Rave NCGEMATR éra: zansferred
cUS to Heaccuarters area. Eacause of the inciderts raised in referenced
caulas, 25 “ell as derevatory inforxation on file concerning tha family
of Subjects wits, it 2s not possible to. convert SOS4i28 to a Staff agent co
o> rnployoe at tcie tine. - Headquarters is abtersting to arranga to Pave Sy
SOCAL brought. “to Headquarters in.its.present.status. ender.a new WH. -Progect.. -
You will be notified Tater of the. details of this: Proposal ‘afteritchas
teen Getermined whetrer such an attempt will be successfuke..In the-viesn= _-
time, no indication-ahonld de given to ROGaTR _Conearni ng wrat-is ben
done” regarding. iis: future Assigumentte . .

 

      
   
 
 
  
   

26. Bouman, - an. order ‘bo-Clent up his-seescity file, : }: wi

to hare Statement , Prem. ‘the field, Bigned.b bythe Chier of. Piakiony,

 

2 Rinaaatate a: Etatocent
avalotying ths Station's astinate of the | ‘Seenrity.of SOM ane his wife.

ft 1Stocuested that this mamorandmr be- prepacad aa. 3 ove a5 possible and
tomarigd to Headquartars. : : ae

   

 

3 At the sane tine Hoadquarters is writing to
HIPAY, earboa ceuyz t asking for an invastization of
oz NODE s wits. / se

 

 
