 

re cos ep

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

pD0/oPs/xaRcos| fms

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - NARCOG CHRONO
1 - IP/AN*

“hee

 

AFile-—in 201- 0067860
X 201~-0285923
X 201-0286570

 

Page G7

Index: Justo LAZARO Alfonso, aka Justo Alfonso

’ Index; Manuel Leonardo De ARMAS
Coordination:

in draft) 17 March 1976
&

O38 draft) 17 March 1976
 

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Iavelved with DEA Page 8

&. Following a review of all information on the
foregoing Subjects available at DEA Headquarters and
at this Agency's Headquarters, we are of the opinion
that there is no data or other evidence to suggest an
outside organization is attempting to manipulate these
individuals in an- operation aimed at discrediting the
U.S. Government and DEA. We believe there may be
collusion among the three Subjects located in Caracas,
probably to assist one another in nefarious schemes to
One degree or another; however, the information on
hand does not suggest their motivation would go beyand
personal, financial or influence objectives. . While one
cannot absolutely rule out the possibility, for example,
that ‘the Cuban Service has run one or more of the afore-
mentioned Subjects at DEA for the purpose of harrassing
the U.S. Government, there is no conclusive information
in our files to connect them with Cuban intelligence or
a Venezuelan entity whose interests are inimical to the

U.S.

bien!

Special ecevane-ror-cooraint ion of

Foreign Narcotics Information

 

 

DONC- 00038/76

 
 

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 7

.
4

received a bank loan of $1,500 in Miami and has‘defaulted
on some $800 of the ameunt. The final note on De ARMAS
is that he received a general discharge from the U.S.
Army with a notation that he had psychological and
behavioral problems." The gist of the aforementioned
FBI information has been passed to DFA Caracas. All
agencies concerned agree that contact with De ARMAS
should cease. De ARMAS again contacted S.A. Duncan in
Caracas on 26 February 1976 and requested a meeting; he
said that the request was not drug related, but con-
cerned the “Cuban matter." S.A. Duncan advised De ARMAS”
that he was on his own and that DEA would not get in-
volved. As DEA Headquarters is aware, De ARMAS re-
portedly left for Mexico o/a 26 February 1976. We have
no subsequent reporting on his movements.

7. Three of the five aforgmentioned individuals

a had past connections: GARCIA Vazquez
were .
e an
vas in “COnEaCE WT in
wing 1974-75. Although there have been
allegations aimed at. nd GARCIA over the years
accusing them of being Cuban agents and/or of narcotics
involvement, these claims have not been substantiated
and for the most part are based on circumstantial

evidence or guilt by associa
freauently among Cubans.)

we feel, cannot be construed as part of a provocation.
operation. A check of our records reflected no past
intelligence backgrounds for LAZARO Alfonso and De
ARMAS, . While there is a paucity of background infor-
mation ‘in our files on Justo LAZARO, in our opinion he.
is attempting to extort moncy from the U.S. Government
based on a poorly conceived idea of his own. The De -
ARMAS case appears to have been resolved satisfactorily
for all concerned. All Agencies concerned agree he is
unstable and contact should be either severed, or if:
unavoidable, it should be made with extreme caution.

  
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page S

 

 

 

Ss. Justo LARAZO Alfonso. A check of our records
turned up One Justo Alfonso (no DPOB), a Cuban-exile,
who was active in anti-Castro organizations in the
late 1960's. Your Agency is referred to the FBI for

information on this individual.

. 6. Manuel De ARMAS. DPOB: 06 November 1947,
Havana, Cuba; naturalized U.S. citizen living in Miami.
On 17 October 1975 one Manuel De ARMAS contacted our
overt Domestic Contact Division (DCD) office in Miami
offering his services as a doubic agent. Following are
excerpts from two DCD Reports dated 20 October 1975 and
19 January 1976 based on debriefings of De ARMAS: While
in Cuba De ARMAS claimed to have been the neighbor of.
Raul BETANCOURT, the brother of the former Venezuelan
President Romulo BETANCCURT, and his two daughters.
Antonieta and Mariela, who was De ARMAS' girl friend.
De ARMAS' mother decided in 1962 that Subject should
Leave Cuba, which he did. In 1975, De ARNAS found out
that his two young cousins had been placed in an orphan-
age in Cuba. He madé contact with Mariela BETANCOURT,
telling her that he was fed up with the U.S. system of
government in order to gain her attention on the matter
of taking his cousins out of Cuba. Mariela asked him
if he would be willing to work for the Cuban Government
and he replied he would if it would help the youngsters.
Mariela then told-De ARMAS to go to Caracas and meet -
with her sister Antonieta. De ARMAS went to Caracas on
02 October 1975 and met with Antonieta, but no proposals
were. made on the possibility of his working for’ the’ ~~~
Cuban Government. Of 17 October 1975 De ARMAS again
called Mariela and was told that he should return to
Venezuela to. hold more’talks with Antonieta and “other
people." After talking with Mariela on 17 October 1975,
De ARMAS called our DCD/Miami Office because as a U.S.
citizen he claimed that he did not want to get involved
with the Cuban Government unless he had this Agency's
approval. ‘De ARMAS graciously offered his services as
a double agent. He called DCD/Miami on 20 October 1975
 

ror)

8
3

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 6

and again on 07 January 1976 to resubmit his offer and
insisted on a “#esponse. He was told that his offer
would be forwarded through the appropriate channels.
(Note: Our records show that there was no CIA interest
in De ARMAS, past or present.) On 13 January 1976 our
representative in Miani was told that the FBI Miami
office had been in contact with Subject and wished to
verify De ARMAS" clain that he was in contact with our
DCD Miami office. The FBI also asked whether this -
Agency had any objection for further FBI contact with
Subject. on the “same basis they had previously." (Note:
The type or length of FBI contact with De ARMAS is not
known. Your office is referred to the FBI for additional

information.)

On 04 February 1976 DEA Caracas received a
DEA message (# 02406) which requested permission for
Miami CI Manuel Leonardo De ARMAS to travel to Caracas: .
for a one kilo heroin, buy from a Colombian whom De ARNAS
had previously met through a Maria A. BETANCOURT. Per-
mission was given and De ARMAS arrived in Caracas on 11
February 1976. No mention of drugs was made on this
trip but according to De ARMAS he was taken to the Cuban
Embassy in Caracas on 12 February 1976, where he was
allgedly approached to work for the Cuban Government
in an intelligence capacity. De ARMAS reported these
events to DEA Caracas on 12.February 1976; he was ad-
vised to return to the U.S. Our representative in

Caracas was briefed * se by SAIC Duncan
on 13 February 1976. was very interested
in having De ARMAS r or use asa

possible source on Cuban intelligence activities |

 

 

_/| A background check was conducted

 

on De ARMAS at that time and on 20 February 1976 the

FBI representative in Miami reported the following in-
formation: "The FBI has been avoiding contact with

De ARMAS for the past couple of months since he was

assessed as a ‘mentally unbalanced fabricator'. De

ARMAS gave a press interview in Niami in early February

1976 in which he claimed an affiliation with virtually

every U.S. intelligence agency. He said that he had :
worked for CIA and had attended a CIA training school. oo,
The press interview has thus far not been published, :
Presumably because it is too far fetched. De ARMAS

SEGPET
 

a

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with pra Pag

was at no time used operationally. Our files contain
no additional information on since 1960
eaTing

except for a 1969 FBI report
ment in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro. (DEA
already has a copy of this report.) Although in-
formation obtained from a Report of Investigation
(ROI) by Alfredo Duncan (DEA s} dated 01
December 1975 indicates that is a U.S.
Citizen, resides in Caracas and has contacts with
various GOV officials, we have no information in our
Headquarters files to substantiate this information.
In November 1975 the Caracas Regional Office (CRO)

 

 

. sd traces from our field representative on
. who was reportedly in contact with the CRO.
€

ollowing traces were forwarded to our represen-
tative in Caracas on 03 December 1975 for passage to
DEA: “Following data on dlario EYoy 3 Roja
taken from his own undated handwritten bio summary
which apparently submitted to the anti-Castro Frente

 

Revolucionario Democratico (FR in Miami about 1260...
nel Form,

and from an FRD Person

 

 

 

 

with his involve-

 

 

 

 

De registeréd in the ISK as a DEAsourcé. (Ne was
formally registered :

 

 

 

 
 

104-10177-10239

 

. a : ae

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WasHincron.D.C. 20595

ry

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John Warner.
. . Chief, International Intelligence Division |

Office of Intelligence
Drug Enforcenent Administration

3 ; : . ATTENTION: Mr. Robert Goe '-

oe

’ SUBJECT
REFERENCES ° : A. SEC-IGI-76-0048(i), 06 February 1976
B. SEC-IGI-76-0062(1), 20 Februai, 1976

Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA:

THIS DOCUMENT HAS pen (C. SEC-IGI-76-0665(1), 25 February 1976
RELEASE BY
DEA om LAPR FY
OLY : 1. This Agency was requested by DEA to check the

backgrounds of five Cuban exiles who have come to the
attention of DEA either as potential informants or as
liaison contacts. According. to preliminary checks
conducted by DEA, there were indications that these.
individuals had past records of “political and revolu-
tionary intrigue." DEA, concerned that it may be the
target of a provocation operation by anether govern-

. . ment, requested this Agency's assessment of the

‘ situation. This memorandum contains the results.of a

: check of our Headquarters records on these individuals,
followed by a Summary of our findings aad conclusions.
The order of this respohse is s_keyed to Reference B:

co

tortnis Agency at

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OK
OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY
WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSiFICATION SCHEDULE OF 5 &
E.0. 11052, EXEMPTION CATEGORY: 5S (L) 2
DECLASSIFICAT cer trrcarrct & TO DETERMINE
SIFTEDCRY 661506 w GO
— wets OS. roy atalenaiees Dow's Drer 385
AYES ye Pook Beye

 

 

 

   

 

 
 

was OF intérest
‘our records he

 

 

gotoy

  

    

 

 
SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 3.

3. Orlando GARCIA Vasquez. DPOB: 16 June 1927,
Havana, Cuba.” GARCIA (at one time a naturalized U.S.
citizen/18 May 1945 in South Carolina). became a
Venezuclan citizen ca 1962. GARCIA has a long history
as a political thug since pre-Batista days in Cuba,

He was a member of the Union Insurrectional Revo-
lucionaria (UIR) in Cuba along with Fidel Castro and
other persons who were involved in political assasi-
nations. He claims to have served with the U.S. 82nd

° Airborne Division from 1945-47 and to have returned

to Cuba thereafter to attend the University of Havana

on the GI Bill. About mid-52 Subject left Cuba for
. Miami because of a scandal’ in Cuba over a crime al-
legedly committed by GARCIA. In 1953 he became a
bodyguard for Costa Rican President FIGUERES, who
introduced him to Romulo BETANCOURT, who was then in
‘exkle in Costa Rica. It is believed that GARCIA's
fast rise in the Venezuelan government is based on his
earlier service to Accion Democratica (AD) exiles in
Costa Rica, where he reportedly eliminated several
gunmen sent to kill BETANCOURT. When BETANCOURT
became president of Verezuela (1959-64), GARCIA was
appointed a division chief in the Directorate General
of Police (DIGEPOL), now the Directorate for the Services
of Intelligence and Preventicn (DISIP). GARCIA left
Venezuela for Miami in 1964 for health reasons (ulcers)
and’ during this stay in Miami worked at the Venezuelan
Consulate. He returned to Venezuela in 1966 and re-
portedly held positions within the Venezuelan Ministry
of Interior (exact positions not known). In August
1$69 GARCIA was assigned as First Secretary to the
Venezuelan Embassy in Georgetown, Guyana. He returned
to Venezuela sometime during 1970 or 1971 and was

assigned as Special Assessor (Advisor), Ministry of
Foreign Relations, where he was mainly concerned with
Venezuelan national border incidents and violations.

According to information dated July 1974, GARCIA was

appointed to head a special foreign intelligence

Service within the Ministry of Interior:

 

In November 1973 our representative in Caracas
Was queried oy DEA Caracas concerning a report which
was prepared on 06 September 1973 in Miani by S.ALf

Michael D. Brom, which accused GARCI £ ¥
Volved in aarcatics trafficking |

 

 

 

 

 

gone
 

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 4

   

- DEA Caracas was ad ed ena] j
Although if is known

 

that GARCIA has associated with known traffickers, no
hard facts concerning his ¢irect involvement in
narcotics have been uncovered. GARCIA has been
Jescribed over the years as a political thug, a
murderer, a con-man, a pathological liar, and a

- “bright, aggressive rogue who is ruthless when neces-

sary." GARCIA has apparently always sided with the
men in power and seems to have gained the confidence :

of many leaders in the countries around the Caribbean.

A DEA ROI, dated 10 Qctober 1974, written by S.A. Brom

at Miami reported that GARCIA was in the United States .
and wads in contact with Ricardo MORALES (see paragraph

4). GARCIA made several trips to the U.S. on behalf
of the GOV during 1974-75.. Your, Agency is referred
to the FBI for information concerning GARCIA's
activities in the U.S.

 

 

 
