 

104-10221-10218

 

mow

  

   

  

‘frow taking. f
“over Guba.

 

- .. “fe waa 6:30. a.m, when we zoomed across.
p. . the beach at tree-top level. | The suri was. up,
\ us and pesple ware étirring, We spotted several
, : bright orange. patrol cara with cream-colored ;
tops. Miliciamen waved at’ ua; our masquerade ;
wha succeeding. co ' vat

 

"Back to the Boat : . aa

"Diago assured me that we could lind
on the roadway near the rendezvous spot. But
the roade were either too ahort, too curved
or too narrow to set the plane down. We
circled the area for 35 anxious. aimutes, then
decided to dump the arm3, Fortunately we had
prépated for thig emergency. The weapons were .
wrappéd in blankets of foam rubber to prevent: -:*
dasiagé., 2 ee

"The weapons were picked up and safely
hiddén. On successive days, we made two
more attempts to land. We circled in vain .
over cugar-cane fielde and green hills, Each

_- time we were forced to drop our supplies.

 

 
104-10221-10218 i ae

ve

 

°

 

  

ings,
‘ida! ad ‘fool him,

"A United Front,
"For several. days we tried to land’ ‘on. the *
Cuban shore, but Castro's gunboat patrols proved
too vigilant and we' had to give up tha
effort. Meanwhile, however, anothar group
of men went aghore in Pinar Dal Rio Province,
‘" Among them was Angus McNair, a fellow American,
But five of the group, including McNair, somehow
got separated from the others and were picked -
up by Castro's militia. Now McNair, a dedicated
fighter for freedom, has been shot by Castro
witaouc trial. So. have cial valiant friends’
of our cause. 4 ae
"But McNair and the others did not dite.
in vain, and it ig: important to remémber
that, whataver our situation now, Castro himself
did not win hia:triumph for three long years.
Despite all the ups and downs, victories and
defeats, those of us who believe in Cuban .
freedom are in the battle to the end." .

~ 10 -

 
104-10221-10218 i a

   

      
 

_ MM:2-192:

  

: very area we “had

‘chosen, Castro. poured” in his militia in
; mo “ tremendous numbérs, of 200 guerrillas, only
i. 40 escaped.-

t ; . "Dismayed, we abandoned our plan and pulled.
, back to the Bahamas. We tried to deliver
" - ‘another boatload of weapons, but before our.
: cabin cruiser could make contact, it was caught
in tha headlight of a jeap patrolling the
. coastal road, Then a Cuban frigate, apparently
. agummoned by radio, bore down on us. We
managed to give it the slip, howéver, by racing
to the offshore atolls, where the water was too
shallow and snagged with coral reefs for the
bigger ahip to follow...

"Meanwhile, Castro's agents in Miami

. Suspected what we were up to, They had_ orders.
upon our récurn ‘never to let us out of their
sight. But we tured the tables on them and.
began spying on them, I intercepted a telegram
to one Castro agent, Rudy Faneitty, who wae
registered at Miami Beach's Surrey Hotel.

The wire, obviously in code, was addressed to ©
‘Lieutenant’ Fanaitty and was signed by

 

-8-

fe
104-10221-1021

+ an fo

.

 

 

 

“We hid: on an atoll. for a few days while -
we transferred our lethal cargo to the mainland -
and received reports of what was happening: in’
Cuba. The patriotic leaders who. visited ua,
always by rowboat after dark, told of growing
anger against Castro. His alliarice with
communism had disillusioned most thinking -

Men, But even the maszes were muttering over
the hardships -he produced by purchasing
Coumunist arms instead of food and putting
guns before butter. :

. _"The underground chiefs revealed a chink
in Castro's armor: his militia bristled with
weapons that wore short of ammunition. By °
rationing ammunition, Castro unwittingly showed
how little he trusted his ow men. Apparently
he took no chances that they would defect and .

_turn their arms against him.

"This seareity.of ammunition was discovered:

‘by Diago's men, These daredevils would creep
up behind Castro militiamen, prod them with

daggers and order them to drop their guns and
ammunition belts. If they would agree to walk

 
104-10221-10218
$

 

8,
ae te : stuck to the ‘roads, Castro" 6 militiamen sviiined.” “
o : ; over the mounta ing. Lo ;  & - Fae

 

: - "He diel ‘eiew that a successful revolt .
‘must hava the eupport of the people. To hold.
the loyalty of the campesinos, the dixrty-necks
who inhabit thé countryside, Castro put shirte
on their backs and food in their bellies.

NTP FRAO OLE REE

   

. "Of no small help to Castro has been our

own disunity. The Cuban exiles have been

divided into a hundred movimientos preoccupied

with their own rivalries. For over two yeare,

they dissipated their funds and energies in :

internecine quarrels. Most have been mere: ~ - . *

debating societies whose members talked md’ -. oe
. dreamed big.but have little support inside. Cuba, , we 78, he

I finally became fed up-with all of then and:, mE a

formed my own International’ Brigade, training *

in the Florida Everglades.

 

"In helping to set up an anta-castre force
inside Cuba, I collaborated wich Victor |
Eoman.el Paneque, the legendary 'Diago' who
directed the Havana underground for Castro.
Diago is a short, stocky daredevil who wears
a cigar in his mouth as a permanent article of
dress. He fears nothing,

«= §«

 
104-10221-10218

 

RE ae

‘Gastro’a Cuba ‘by night you fAéver knew ten:

 

of the notorious pirate Captain
“Kidd, who, Recording to legend, used thease Same.
atolls for burying nis treasure, We loaded a
45-£oot cabin cruiser with arma, mounted a i
20, mm. cannon 1m. the stem png Plowed. across the ~
Caribbean. ‘ :

"After dark we anchored in a cove off the
north coast of Las. Villas. The silence was
complete, Bet a light, nota a ine from

     
 
   

machine guns would start to chatter and tracers |
cut their atrange patterns like firafliea.
about your ears,

"Short of Ammunition

"We waited tensely. Then from the shore
came the wink of a flashlight. We returned the

-6-

G2-

  
104-10221-10218

 

>

 

DETAILS:

c, + On April’ 20, 1961, WELLTAM JOHN. JOHNSON, 127:1
Kerthwest 180th Terrace, Miami, and WILLIE MARVIN WALL,
$9 West 58th Terrace, Miami, came to the Office of the
FBI end informed SA JANES M. COADY that subject was
_tecruiting for a Cuban invasion. These individuals had
seen subject with applications for the Internationa! Anti-
Commanist Brigade. They said they knew of four Cubans
who had aigned with subject, however, they wore .
table to furnish identities of these individuals,

Subject, with ALEXANDER I. RORKE, & frea~ ;
lance photographer. and reporter, were supposed to come by
JOPESON's residence at 10 PM on April 20, 1961, and
subfect allegedly would prosené his backer st that time. .
JOHNSON and WALL stated they would advise tho PBI of
further activities of subject.

The “Parade” magazine supplement of the "Miami
Herald’, Miami, Florida, dated May 14, 1961, contains an
article by FRANK FIORINI 23 told to JACK ANDERSON, . 7
captioned "An Amsrican soldier of fortune in Cuba saya
"ge WILL FINISH THE Jos'”. The following ig this article ©
in its entirety:

 
104-10221-10218

Bi .

 

Fer-404 (dew, 399-30)

‘Thie document contains notthor tecommendatioza cee conciucione of the FAI. Wt te the propert

your agoney; Wand We contents are aot to be dietibsted outeide your aganey. . -P- ra
wie I [DN 226

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53217 6/20/17

 
 
      
   

 
 

UNITED STATES
FEOERAL

WM wrist ty LYAT Lert

On 7/2/61; YM T-1. informed that about 75 Cubans gathered

_at Davie Airport, Davie, Fla., where newsmen were waiting.

Two airplanes were reated from Howe Aviation, Tamiami
Airport, Miami. Planes were flown to Davie Airport where
a group was to make parachute jump. Subject was in
attendance with 3 or 4 of hié men from his organization
known as International Anti-Communist Brigade. Neither
gubject nor hia men participated in parachute jumps, but
were interviewed by press representatives. ‘'Miamd Herald"
article 7/3/61 seid International Brigade had billed
exercise as a mass-drop by some 70 parachutists of one

of its member groups, the Intercontinental Panectration
Forces (INTERPEN). During press interview, subject claimed
that his organization had 5,000 members of which 700 were in
active training to coubar Commun len. Source said newspaper
article had greatly exaggerated truth and that subject

had mo more than 10 individvals in his organization at

that time and INTERPEN had a maximum of 20 members.

Gn 7/17/61 Department of Justice, Washington, D. Cos
directed letter to Fai stating it wes opinion of
Internal Security Division there is sufficieat indication

of poasible violations of Title 18, USC, Section 960 to
warrant investigation. On 8/9/61, MM T-L reported

subject had returned from Washington, D, C., several days

 

 
  

7 Avg el

y af the FBI and ts losned to
104-10221-10218

 

 

12, 1560). After ‘the’

dtr
lost his U. §> citizenship. won he
against Castro, ‘however ‘Sen: George Smathe
Florida, on ’Parade’s' appeal, helped Fiorini win :
a hearing before the State Departeent. On March 14
the citizenship of this dedicated freedom fighter ~

wag veatorad.

"Here Fiorini réveala the inside story of:
the April lend ings and ‘what. preceded thén--and
tells why he and hig companeros. will be victorious, .
in spite of the ups and downs. : .

"Ag you read this, the fight for Cuban freedon
is continuing. My Companeros on that embattled
island possess the indomitable will ‘of mén who
know that oné setback or one victory does not decide
the. cause of Liberty. - ‘It is this fiery spirit that:
has enabied them to etrike back, ayais and. again,
against the Castro tyranny.

"Today it is popular to consider the April
land ings an attempted large-scale invasion which

-~3-
BAe See

’ finally we @ ‘carried out. vs

 

 
 
 

. "For a 1 ng ig: we had. een , working in oo
stealth. to .e8' dé

  

‘el. pped” ‘ehtodgh ‘the ‘Sugar Cane Curtain by: boat,
playing a deadly game of hide-and-seek with

_ Castro's gunboats among the offshore atolls and
coral reefs, - Sometimes we swooped over the
treetops by plane and looked down upon Castro's’
bright orange patrol cars. We kept secret tryats
with underground leaders, dumped supplies from
the air into guerrilla’ Bideoues. We raturned to
Florida for more arms, .

Pe me oe "Using a secret code taken from the Bible,
: we kept in daily radio contact with shopkeepers,
_ students, workers, peasants, even militiamen,
Ac night they blew up bridgas, sabotaged -
factorios, attacked Small outposts. ~

"Many of us once fought ‘for Castro and
the democracy he promised. Now we fight agasinsc

him who turned our dream of democracy into a
Commmiat nightmare.

"A Fight for Freedom

=h«
