 

 

 

 

4

Page 2
eevol “W, Lallantonce ;
Auguss Jl, 1965 Ros

 

  
  

Wo would lie to eoloe hia to YOu as ono Wino wo conslcs 2Ofaeede
Unable to surchor train hin, Woare ctéikiag hia tres cus ¢ 21d cuties
PPOjrae.s Sith tide recent olininatiea Leos tale gteus, is nos no victole
Gens OF cupgorte Attached fad cortaia vortingat inlens.tioa to cubce
tintiatoe winy du ctutud above. Tf 1t 40 yoosiblo uncer Yoor rales and

 

  

. tp aews % Would cortainly coos Guvicublo, in tite tactance;: to yab
6 Mm be rolea of the-Cubas Rotuzoo, Contor until gues tice .
4 walad Procra woo ended or until 4¢ could. bo provea that ae could cara

hia way dn cugloywotite

43 you growably know, wo are vorldig bere with 000 25 Cabin refucues ~
dn our grojram of rcanbilitation. 26 wy comory, thie 4a the fleas

tine onu trem tho Bay of Piga that hag boon roferrad to four agency fron
Use . ; ce

I vould ayyreolute a call at FR 791531 or a lottor to let ts Knov when
You hive aude a deotasone . . .

Sincorely yourg,

Cordon D, oath, Counsolor
Vocational Aohabilitation

a

f
(04-1022940017| «

 

 

 

 

 

 

> 226 above cajtdonad dadividual ‘wos put in training to dear Enclis:

monthly renorta from Lindsey Hoping Gtating that’

Aucuot Bl, 1965

 

  

: 2 f. DallanZonte
“Lold’ Repseaontative
cites Rofuzooe Cantor :
09 Discayao Soulovard : . 4
Miont, Florida A @

 

 

Doar Kr. Ballanfontor

“hia io to confira-sy conversation with XPe Steve.
garding the woove Cuptioned ind4viducl, as it
ite Renfrou, I have been workday: Lor the Bast Cigatees as.tns whith
eene-of the <dcablad peoslo frog the @ay of Five dnivasios 41 attonste=
ing to'vacationally rehabilitate thoa tate saployuente

  

 
 

 

  

   

CQ oubsoqueitly was put din.a courzo at tindsey Nopitos Mdueats
‘CuRsor Lo learn bacie erarting to be folloucd by nechanacel dretsias,
His’ sregéeas has besa slew, and for the Post year, ang

Smee

 

We have Suan gevtiag
Os Wished to dren’
Hin cocause he waa only operating at abous 25. oF Pate 62 the saat
os tho classe In lettera to dinesey Yopiins Dducatlonl Contes wo nave
urged then to civa hin evory chance dus to hés epilentie condition.

  
  
  

 

“Fanally, after a year, thoy have stated that to finish ais course or
‘GechanicalL “tang would take until 1959 a8 a 25% rate o2

   
   
   

  

wo tae

 

a3 not Lair to puozle wie aco waiting te coe

 

‘and that tid

course, Also, fron tata Counsoler's ptansoniat, this cears tact ave

iv-he did cozplege tho course, he would not be able
tative exploymont duo to hia clomess vlus th tht
having bic epllepay undor vory good control.
bein: roferrad by Dae Antonio Macco and nysols aVulsive .
Clinte of the Koalth Dopartmont for followup and cocicai care to control
hia opilogay if thie ta poaaibles

  

tO Cuno
’ 2

   

 

 
