 

 

 

~ SEcrey

money already in Cuba - dollars would be delivered to.owners of the pesos who
are tn tismi). Ptota hina f would call him ia the morning to let him: know how

things. stood, : . *

“42 diecuased our meeting with CISNEROS with Tracy Barnes on the
morniag of < June. It was Tracy's opinion, in which I heartily concur, that:
we should put out ne money whatsoever until we have had a chance io examine :
AManolo's plan.and.to Study just what repercussions or ramifications there
would be, policy-wise and otherwise, 10 a decision to ausiat the MRP

laterally, that te, outside the Council and presumably without MIRO'g
| knowledge or consent. ‘Since RAY has withdrawn his group from the Council
' with a great deal of fanfare, it fe most unlikely that MIHO would look kindly
On any ‘@ssistance to RAY, especially since he feals he hae a rather fier

‘Promise from the Preeldent:to deal only through MIRO,

  
 

_ 5... RAY, upon arrival in Washington, wil! presumably. take his plan {atong
with BETANCOURT) directly to Mr, Goodwin and I would alao presuma that
Goodwin wilt Jass it down to Tracy and Tracy ous, Ray DuBois, who has
beon Manolo's case officer, is standing by in the event ha shouldbe needed,

- §° EL pergonally feal very strongly that we should do nothing to Support the ‘
plan, whatever. it is, ‘unti} we have received from the White House and the ..
Department clear-cut, unequivocal policy guidance on the overall plan, Talse
feel that-now {9 the ime, if wo are GO ng to suport the MRP unilaterally,. co
insert. a ron-official cut out Into the operation, ‘I wauld recommend that con-
sideration be given to using Mr. Harry Pleper (a #AVE contract: employee)
on this job, Harry ta tempermentally suited, haa a good buginesa head, is
iluent in Spanish (lived 28 years in Cuba), is cleared, followa directions,
completely bonest and tremendously conscientious, I would be harder to -
find a better person, ' : : ;

_ 7. Also, I would Ike to poing out the security riske inherent in any arranga-
mente with the RAY-BETANCOURT-CISNEROS trio. These fallows have had
easy access to the White House and to the Department, ‘are notorious for their
“planned leaks ', will probably sreaume all the Department officials they deal
with are privy to the arrangement, and before we.know it the whole exile
community Will be well aware that we are providing financial and material
'. Suppert to the RAY group, Tam not arguing against providing such support,

but am merely poloting out the real potential for einbarrasiment to ua lfihe |

matter la not handled with the greatest of precautions, I feel they have becorne

soo closely identified with U, S, -officialdom, including inyself, and that the
“ piausible denial aspects, to date at-least, are almost non-existent,

 

ce: A/DDP/A
DCs WH/4

 

 
 

1041010310037

 

 

 

   

RETU TO CM
ants Backgro ound Lise Only
Fe 2 — Do Not. Repreduce

; : _ + June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Relations with Manolo RAY and the MRP

. SFor background see my memorandum of le May 1961, reporting on

my tong soasion.with Manolo RAY, Rogelio CISNEROS (Eugenio) and Ernesto

BETANCOURT. Ae will be noted in that memorandum, - Manolo promised to
come up with a prospectus within approaimately ten’ days’ time, afer: con
sulting with bis leaders in Cuba. .

 

2, On} June 1961 Mr. Barnes called me to say that. Mr, Goodwin had
been visited by Mr. Ernesto BETANCOURT who asked for {minediate financial
support for certain activities of the MRP which would run around $16, COU
dollars. Mr. Barnes asked moto contact BETANCOURT for the purpose of
ascertaining what the funds were to bo used for, exactly how m uch needed, ete,

lcéalled BELANCCURT and he iold me that I should get thess details from

“CISNEROS (Eugenio), who was staying at room 549 at tha Washington Hotal.

Icailed Eugenio end made a daia for me and Kay DuBols (Ray Adams is the
name he-uses with Ray and Cisneros) to call upon him, We called on CISNEROS
at approximately 1445 hours ( June, and he informed ua that he hed urgent

need for pesos for use in support of his sabotage and underground activivies

in Cuba, Ha eaid his people were absolutely without funds, needed money for
living expenses, transportation, purchage of sabotage equipment, ale fares for
couriers, and for aasisting peopls to yet out of prison, He said that it was

now possible ior people to buy thelr way out of prisan by bribing one of the
many ‘communist’ lawyera andjudgea, He thought that iv, U0 or Sv, GUC
would meet immediate needa and that some sort of arrangement should be mada
to receive funda - 30, CC monthly or thereabouts ~ on a fined and permanent

baale.

3. Wa mada no commitment to Evgetalo other than to say that wo would
page his plea along tc the interested people. 1 reniinded him that we had asked
him and. Manolo to prepare a plan for consideration and that we were atill

walting for that plan. I said I personally doubted that anything could be done

anit the plan was received from RAY, He said Manolo was planning to come to

Washington on the afternoon of 2 June with the plan, but that he himeelf was

having to return to Miami immediately and it was vital he be able to take the
ofthe poses (at rete oft ste

 

To purchase

money with bins, arrange in niiai.

 

   

 

 
