13-00000

w

AS BS 98 84:03PM P.

SECRET

SUBJECT: (U) New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination
Records

3. (C) In discussions with the Board staff we have
attempted to focus any new tasking on those areas in which
they have expressed their greatest concern. It is
imperative, however, that we satisfy the Board on these
issues or the Agency will be subject to a determination by

- the Board that we are not in compliance with the JFK Act.
Because of the impending atatutory termination of the Board
and their need to issue their report, there is some urgency
associated with the conduct and completion of these
searches. The searches must be completed by 6 Auguet, 1998.

4. .(8) Databases to be Searched. The addresdeesx to
this memorandum are requested to perform new searches—-using
the search terma in paragraph 5--on ANY of your files which
may contain information relating in any way to the JFK
assassination, including, in particular, all records systems
or files containing. information on:

« James J. Angleton and his files

« Debriefings of defectors in which ANY reference to Oswald
or the JFK assassination occurs (Example, (UDECANTER) ~

5. (U) Search Terms and Time Periods. These new
searches should focus on documents that might be retrievable
with the following search terms over the referenced periods:

® The period 1959-1965 using the search terms Executive
Action, Exaction, Ex Action.

® Post-1978 information combining the term “assassination”
with President Kennedy, John F, Kennedy, Kennedy,. JFK,
presidential threats, threats to U.S. Prasident, attempt
{or attempted), or the crypt GPIDEAL.

# Post-1978 information related to the following terms:
Warren Commission, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, HSCA, Oswald, Lee Harvey Oswald, Marina
Oswald, Jack Ruby, or GPFLOOR.

SECRET

shpat
 

Ses oe, 198 68: 360M

SECRET

RETURN TG Cie.
Background sea Gals

Do Not Reproduce OIM 98-0081
oe 30 July 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterdintelligence Center, DO
Chief, Latin America Division, DO
Chief, CE Division, DO

FROM: Lee Strickland -
. Chief, Information Review Group
Office of Information Management -

, SUBJECT: (u) New Search of CI Files for JFK . -
Assassination Records

REFERENCE: (ATUO) Bulletin OIM BB No. 02-98,
dated 22 July 1998

1. (U) The JFK Board has made a number of recent
apecific directed requests to assure that the Agency has
complied fully with the requirements of the JFK Act. Among
these was a request for issuance of the Reference Employee
Bulletin, in which the DCI directed that employees leave “no
atone unturned” in assuring that relevant documents are
provided to the Commission.

2. (U) In part because relevant new documents have
surfaced within the past few months, the Board has also
requested specific focus on renewed searches of the Agency's
“counterintelligence files.” The new documents have
surfaced due to a variety of reasons. including references
to assassination related personalities in recent defector ~
reports, records made available'because of the break up of
the Soviet Union, and advances in search capabilities due to
digitization of older paper files.

  

CL BY: =
CL REASON: 1.5C
DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: HUM 4-82

SECRET

@
em ap
13-00000

AUG OS ‘SS G4: 64PrH

SECRET

SUBJECT: (U) New Search of CI Files for JFK Assassination
Records

6. (8S) Information is also sought on:

@ The identity and current location of personnel (either
the currant assignment of employees or any knowledge of
current lecation of retirees) who participated in
Gebriefinga or the preparation of reports on debriefings
of (ISDECANTER

e The destruction of James 3. Angleton‘s files.

Such information should be brought immediately to the
attention of the Historical Review Program, OIM (Barry |
Harrelson, 31825, Secure).

 

 

 

 

 

 

es §. Strickiand| 2

3
SECRET

ee
