ipl

 
  

and himself. He claimed that, ‘although prisot conditions
atteching to this report &. diagram of, tne net as it existed. when ADERE)

- departed. - The’ “names used are code names and aré.on' record with vai/4 fe

- establish a-career. He desires some formal. training. I agreed that

, estadlisnnent of the staybehind not, working long

- ultimate destination, The first two items were for -is wife; the
‘ other, for a customer of nis in 3uffalo, F.Y¥. He says that he is

   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  

RTA

   

 

individual programs. . one walitia main rensarked; ora we-
to these broadcasts, how, vila we imow what ‘the. inporiel

thinking?" a ;
Tt asked about: Americans in prison. “Subject: mew’ ‘of only

during his stay there because of lack of adequate: food nd
facilities, the. prisoners were not physically abused.

by Stayvehind. Rather. than describing ‘the nét.in detail, I eq,

5. coral sit uation: of. aes | subject: is abviousiy fascinated
with: the intelligence wusiness and wishes to continue with us‘ and -

he should get training ard-said that, while he As on vacation, wo would.
try to’ set up some courses for him. Subject would Tike to havea -

contract with us; he fears that his next assignment | might be for only ~
@ short time and that he will be cut loose when it is completed. - .

Altiuough we did not discuss it, he evicently had in mind career
agent status. JI am not aware of Agency policy on assigning Hee
to this status, but I belleve that we have a real asset in ANTE) nd
that consideration should be given to making him a career agent. a
Subject's 201 stows an individual with a background voth of ‘intelligence
and experience that would- indicate an assignment in any Latin American .
country, In addition, he has demonstrated a natural bent for the -
Antelligérce cusiness,: Although his responsibi lity was not as great
as that of ALRYE, he nevertheless contrivuted very greatly in

   
      

trying circumstances, His’ concept of tradecraft: is Fkable” ‘for
@ man who has only déen in this business for approximitely nine
iwonths, When we were going over the diagram.of the staybehind net,

he was able to explain in a-most logical way the reasons for setting
it up as it is. For example, communications are arranged’ from

higher to lower echelons ard, only where necessary, are communications
set-up both ways. Subject has gainer in experience in a short

period of time what it took most of us years to acquire... It would

be a shame to let this experience go by the board, .

 

6. Incidentals. Subject claime that, on the second trip that . : . 3
AMDOODLE 1 rade, included in the pouch were five bottles of Niltown, . ’ “
three guayaberas, and an item of jawelry that never got to its . ’ 2

EGuET
 

fA OTeOAOTET
ia

 

   
 

3A

: paisa 70 THE “RECORD ® o op

. primarily, Al

everywhere.

. pamphlets even up until the last moment of nis departure,
‘Listed, Avarce, Rescate, Prensa Libre, Bohemia Libre and La Marina
‘as periodicals he had seen. He saw them in private homes (most
‘of the homes he visited were counter, revolutionary). Most of tne-

“copies ware quite "teat

 

My

 

16 June 1961 |

 

    

 

SUNECT: Initial Dearkeriig of RE) ee

  

BS ‘Subject was met at. the Hotel | LPapont Plaza from 0930 te

_ 1925 0n-15 Jurie 1961s «

. 2. Host’ of ‘the conversation “at this first meting centered .

on serily, Gs f staybenind net, propaganda effectiveness and,
8 own future. - .

 

g Subject stated that the fish symbol appears .
He ae seen. the symbol in elevators, public buildings, ..

public totlets, bus ard train depots, ‘park benches, etc. His
remark that,."You were always conscious of tren despite the fact

 

3.

 

that in most places they were taken down immediately," is quite

indicative of the wide distribution and use of the symbol. Most
of the symbols that he saw were in chalk father than the blue
stam, Subtect believes most people thought the fish to be a
Christian s-mbol rather tian a counter revolutionary one,

 

Subject had seen many elandestini newspapers, leaflets, ard
He

ip," Ardicating” to him-that they had been
passed from nand to hand, In his opinion, people treasurei the
copies that they had. He cited the ca’se of one girl who carried
copies in her handoag to snow to other girls in her office. Euoject's
only ériticism of the periodicals was that at times they became a -
little too flowery. In his words, "Tnere wera too many adjectives."
He-thourht that a sore Jirect approach would be more effective.

 

He claits that everyoody listens to Radio Swan out nobody
believes it. He mentioned one Swan broadcast which announced. taat .
bodies were lying all over the Malecon and rotting in the sun.
Listeners went to view this and found that tnere were no oodi#s
there. Voice of America is listened to ard is quite highly regarded,
Sudject cited two otner oroadcasts that he considers courter
revolutionary and wnich cre well thougnt of; ona orivinates from
New York and one from Key West, He tninks that most people listen
to Miami when conditions are right. I asked why people continue to
listen to Swan if it is so discredited, He stated that, altrougn.
it is not believed, it is still a contact with tne outside world, .
Tnere is no penalty for listening and all people i, Ly pty ¢ “Ascuey’

ECRET a Doyle i 4

   

 

 

 
 

a

RST

a

ay

 

 

tein)
