74-00009 |

 

*

: Agency. : There. aréa number of pérsons currently i in WH/SA who have

' very strong unfavorable opinion Bout; :

employee, quite outspoke
| that it was a shame that the

“activity authorized by the White House’ to conduct ‘sabotage. oper
‘sugar mill in approximately the spring of this: year. To my knowled

“£rom. JIMWAVE since about the first of the. year, I gathered ‘that | per-

- sonnel at IMWAVE possessed. certain ill feelings ‘toward AMWORLD

cand’ toward ARTIME since it was the only. operation that was allowed to
conduct: sabotage operations. * . . : Le

|
*, Attachments: : | :
|
|
1

 

 
    
 

: As an: example, one, o \
old me on one. occasion - | 2}
, gency. was in any ‘way involved. with.“ : :
ARTIMEDS|__ is one of those who had. earlier been with. the . a
Cuban Project. She seemed to be. knowledgeable: about the. derogatory on
information relating to  ARTIME and PADRON. *s

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

12 Tomy inowledge, Project AMWORL:

 

against and-in Cuba. It was this group. that raided and devastated: thi .

by Presidential. request, no sabotage operati ons have been launched”

 

 

43. To repeat, it is not 1 my intent to. discredit HECKSHER,- ‘to pyle

“ second guess operational personnel, or to: ‘predict future "flaps"; I :
view: ‘HECKSHER as a.skilled operator who'at.times is.a “wild. manl.0 we ode
7 This“is submitted: for your : information. if ‘you previously were. aware oe
~Of the content of this memorandum, I regret that I have caused. you to

expend time. fora meaningless endeavor. ‘In conclusion, I apprised. .

“my: supervisor, Chet Crawford, of my intent to compile this information -
cand have. asked him to peruse this memorandum. . .

UK Moltke

‘Holbik

Tab A.
“Tab B:
Tab C.

 

 
 

 

 

 

‘grade specis

HECKSHER, particularly Raul and. Bobbie HERNANDEZ. They re-
portedly will join HECKSHER at his néw assignment in Venezuela.
The ‘st emplo ee in Miami who handled AMWORLD matters was
Mx Karl ct OHRER, It is believed that most of Ren Cron
in Miami, }on behalf of the Project, were with DrS BAROQ,-
whose cryptonym was AMYUM/19. BARO, until a falling out with
ARTIME, had been the number three man in the Project. As of my
departure from SAS, then WH/SA, ROHRER was assigned to the
British Guiana Desk of WH and I believe was located in Barton Hall.
ROHRER returned from Miami to Headquarters in about the early
summer of 1964, After returning, he showed some bitterness toward
the Project and commented that ARTIME was a weak man, a poor
leader, of questionable morals, and that Cuban Project personnel,
including QUINTERO and BARO were about ready to leave ARTIME's

group, the MRR. ROHRER opined to me that the Project was ''doomed".

ROHRER‘was then a Junior Officer Trainee, GS-8. I personally be-
lieve that, if necessary, information could be elicited from ROHRER
on a confidential basis.

4, Since leaving WH/SA, I have had occasional contact with
persons:who were then and/or are now assigned to WH and who were
knowledgeable of AMWOR These contacts have ranged
fro Al ROD GuEZ both of whom were super
assistants to Mr. Fitzgerald), secretaries in the "front
office" of what was SAS, and others. Since these persons knew of my
intense involvement in the Project, they have commented to me about
it. I did not intentionally solicit their remarks. A remark that was
made to me recently renewed my effort to locate copies of certain
materials that I had extracted from files while in SAS and submit this
memorandum. The remark was, as I can recall it, "Wouldn't Senator
Goldwater have a ball if he knew about the Spanish ship and about
ARTIME's wife?" This remark caused me to do considerable thinking'
and recall,

  
  

5. As you might recall, a Spanish ship was attacked about two
weeks ago. My knowledge of the attack upon the ship is based on com-
ments made to me by persons whom I knew while in SAS. The attack
upon the Spanish ship was reportedly made by the SS Santa Maria, one
of two AMWORLD vessels (converted Navy AKL's). I was with this
vessel in Hoboken, New Jersey, for about two weeks during the late
spring of this year. At that time the vessel was being equipped and

  

 
(ie Nt08: torr oy

Snel g : . 4
. .

  

16 October 1964.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

THROUGH - 3 Chief, Security Research Staff
FROM a : M. K. Holbik, IRD

- SUBJECT Project AMWORLD

‘1. The purpose of this memorandum is to apprise you of
‘certain information about Project AMWORLD which I feel you should |
know, if you do not already, and.to avoid possible. embarrassment to

the Agency. and to the Office of Security, Its purpose is not to dis-
credit Mr. Henry HECKSHER, the former Project head, or any other
persons who have been affiliated with the Project.

2. Until July 1964, schile a Security: Officer assigned to ;
DDP/SAS, the majority of my time was devoted to Subject, Recent
Project developments, coupled with. remarks that have been made to
me about this Project, have motivated. me in submitting | this. account ;
to you for your information. : :

3; Project AMWORLD was and is a so-called “autonomous" ©
operation, In theory, as I understand it, the Agency would farnish
funds and materials, but the actual handling, direction, or control
of the Project would be by the Project head, Manuel ARTIME; erypto-
nym AMBIDDY/1. Tne second ranking Cuban in the Project was

CRafael QUINTERO, sthose cryptonym was A MpAva/ dat Until this
FaneE HECKSHER was the Agency staff Mavala charge of
‘Subject. HECKSHER was succeeded by Mr CNestor SANCHEZ. — ‘SANCHEZ.
HECKSHER's grow. was a wer ysmall | one an aconsistsd of Bis se ed of his sec-
retary, Mrs,“Bobbie' HERNANDEZ; her husbandg“Raul HERNANDEZ: .
_ earl YE YENKIN pick y Dick BEAD a career ‘Logistics.e ployee Es
"AMWORLD; and BEAL'S secretary, Misé Gwen BHORNTON: SHECK-
SHER. was one of the several special assistants td itzgerald,
then the Chief of SAS. This srnall group was extremely loyalto - eens,

 

 
74-0000

 

manned. As.was reported to me, the Santa Maria was cruising - off of
Cuba and at a.distance noted the name on the Spanish ship; I believe :
‘it-was "Sierra" Inu. The Santa Maria, thinking that this ship was ‘one.
of those on its "watch list", opened. fire on the Spanish ship: and acca

7 _Spanish Government was up in arms... As fate would have it, ‘the Santa_
“Maria reportedly attacked. the wrong ship. . The ship they were’ ‘interest

-in-was of the same name; however, it in fact was not the. Spanish ship

‘Mr. McCone imhraediately conferred,

“knowledge, was the first’ indication that PADRON, who was then re-* 0),
-portedly ARTIME's mistress, was possibly a Lesbian. During con-

whether ‘or not ARTIME continued to-have an: interest in PADRON,.

   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
     

ing to the newspaper publicity three Spaniards were killed and the ~

 

Iwas further informed that because of this “flap! s, Secretary Rusk. an

; 6. What: is of equal o or even 1 gidater « concern to ;
ARTIME's wife, ‘In late February 1964, He é

Craz. As a result of this check I made | inquiry of 66 ‘Gand from oe oe
office received a report relating to PADRON. A copy of my. ‘resultant. ot
memorandum to Mr. HECKSHER is attached as Tab A. This,.to my...

 

tinued contacts with HECKSHER, I would discreetly” inguire about

HECKSHER is quite shrewd and is extremely adept at double talk. In
essence, he replied in the affirmative and further said that ARTIME.
planned to marry her. J am quite certain: that the flow of information |
to HECKSHER about PADRON was in this manner--from BARO.-to
ROHRER to either HERNANDEZ or HECKSHER. ‘As time went ‘on, :
judging from the material.that I saw and from the remarks. that I. 7
heard, it was obvious that BARO and QUINTERO had absolutely no . |
use for PADRON.: Tab B, authored-by HECKSHER, notes that the -
political repercussions could be Jeelematous’ if. aaa cae married. 7
PADRON, -

 

7 ‘During the next couple of months, PADRON was investigated |
by INS at the Agency! s request. ‘This was arranged through the Alien.
Affairs Staff. I'm told there is a Security file on her. ‘In addition,
there is a Subject file on her in WH Security. That investigation indi-
cated that PADRON was in all 1 probapility bi-sexual and that she had -.
been the former mistress of Fulgendio BATISTA? For your information,
Tab C in part relates to PADRON's ora & and to ARTIME's naivete..
Tab D primarily concerns QUINTERO's feeling about PADRON.

 

 

  
 

8. After my return from.Hoboken, HECKSHER expressed his
appreciation to me for the departure of the ship without incident, and
was quite friendly. I then felt it prudent to again inquire about
ARTIME's plan to marry PADRON and as I recall, HECKSHER told
me that they either were married or were going to definitely be
married. I believe that during that same week HECKSHER gave me
a copy of a Dispatch with the instructions that I was to return it to
him immediately after I had read it. The Dispatch was extremely
damaging to PADRON. Among other things, it reported on an investi-
gation conducted by Cubans used by a ‘CI shop at JMWAVE. The | :
Dispatch was RYBAT and stated that PADRON had been the mistress
of not only BATISTA, but also of former. Venezuelan Dictator JIMINEZ.

' Further, it stated that PADRON and her sister were both homosexual

and had "posed" (for pornography) for BATISTA and JIMINEZ. In
addition, the Dispatch noted that informants had said that PADRON
definitely visualized herself as being the next First Lady of Cuba. It
was well known among Cubans in Miami that PADRON was undesirable
and that she was ARTIME's romantic interest. Tab E relates to a con-
versation of HECKSHER with ARTIME. Iam quite certain that prior

‘to the date of this Dispatch (UFGA-16512), 29 June 1964, HECKSHER

requested the assistance of SAS Security and of the Alien Affairs Staff
to intervene with INS to allow PADRON's departure to Nicaragua where
she and ARTIME would reside. It should have been pointed out earlier
that by this time PADRON and ARTIME had become man and wife.

9. After I read the Dispatch, I allowed a colleague to read it
and then returned it to HECKSHER, If I had delayed its return, HECK-
SHER would have become suspicious since I had voiced my concern
about PADRON. I commented to HECKSHER that indeed the Dispatch
was extremely derogatory to PADRON and also to ARTIME. I asked
HECKSHER what he planned to do, HECKSHER shrugged his shoulders
and then said that the Agency was stuck with ARTIME and that the Dis-
patch had been shown to Messrs. Fitzgerald and Helms. Tab F isa
copy I made of a Transmittal Slip. It indicates that apparently Mr.
Fitzgerald did initiate some investigation because of the content of the
Dispatch.

10. Tab Gin part confirms the content of the Dispatch which
was derogatory to PADRON and ARTIME.

11. It would not be surprising if some of the derogatory infor-
mation about ARTIME and/or his wife has leaked out of WH/SA or the

 
