 

 

 

“Ubd

) SECRET (

Mr. Ford's files reflect that he was reissued this alias docu-
mentation in February 1963, te be utilized “in the Continental
U.S. for eperational purposes in pursuit of the mission ef the
Special Affairs Staff." On £@ July 1963, cited alias decusen-
tation was returned to Headquerters, noting that Mr. Ford was

being reassigned within the Agency and would ne lenger require
the use of the alias documentation.

4. As stated, Sr. Ford's Office ef Security files contain
no information concerning the specific nature of his duties on
behalf of the Western Hemisphere Division, Task Force 8, or the
Special Affairs Staff. Attached hereto are copies of the perti-
nent memoranda referred to herein, which are dated during the
1961-1963 period. These documents have been sanitized in :
accordance with established procedure. Prior to the release
of these documents to the Senate Select Committee, it is recom-
wended that the entire package be coordinated with the Deputy

Director for Cperations.

Rebert W. Gawbine
Director of Security

Att
Distribution
Grig § 2 - Addressee wf/3 sanitized atts
2 - LBA

D/Security w/o att

OS Registry w/o att

DD/PSI w/l1 sanitized 4 1 unsanitized att
SAG w/1 unsanitized att

0S/PSI/SAGAJSHun} :hjd (4Sept75)
25

nd fad feed Jed
oboe

SECRET
 

REFERENCE COPY

SECRET fe ruRH TO GS RESISTRY

4 SEP 1975
MEMORAMDUM FOR: The Review Staff
VIA : Deputy Director fer Administration
SUBJECT : Senate Select Committee Request
——

(Charles Ford)

1. Reference is sade to a 28 August 1975 mexorandum
from the Review Staff (75/2723), which contains a request
from Mr. Mike Nedigean, Senate Select Committee Staff, for
inforsatios cenceraing the possible use by the Agency of
ene Charles Ford te establish contacts with the underworld
for pessible use against Fidel Castre. Referenced request
indicated that Charles Ford was an Agency officer, who was
utilizing the name “Recky Siscalini.“

2. <A review of the Office of Security indices dis-
Clesed both an overt and cevert file on ene Charles BR. Ford
(SP #38 497), a current Agency employes serving with the
Gffice of Treining/Deputy Directorate for Administration.
Cited files disclesed that circa 1962-1963, Charles BD. Ford
was issued official alias documentation under the name
"Charles BD. Fiscalini.”

3. Charles B. Ford has been am Agency staff employee
since 1952. The Gffice of Security files relating to Mr. Ferd
do net contain any infermation which would indicate he had
been used te contact uaderworld figures fer possible use
against Fidel Castro. However, in Nevember 1961 Mr. Pord was
assigned to the Deputy Directorate for Operations, Westera
Homi sphere Division as an Operations Officer. A memorandum
contained in his files, dated 30 March 1962, indicates thet
Mr. Ford was issued elias decumentatien under the neme ef
“Charles BD. Fisealini.' Cited memorandus further indicates
that Mr. Ferd was then assigned to “Task Force W," end was
to travel te New Yerk en 31 Merch 1962 to meet with an un-
identified attorney who had contacted Hr. Rebert Kennedy, the
then Attorney General, cencerning assistance fer Cuban prisoners.

E2IMPDET
CL BY 063344

SECRET OS 5-7628/A

 

 
