13-00000

   
  
     
    
   
 
  

 

dhol enough ove. Or fhe Gduw of Colleaguen,
EZ chacked Un unth (he Pavhe Apfains O¢frear
ox CIA, He we Ving Aeothing aud said Ther
Amyene the Ate we ursutd nechee urher
happened, Gud The whole thing ututd som
awe mls scbolivten whith u tem clid. The
Ld iN Woy Becom pamed by & rrmam ure uses .
wing G- Wwesk om hee Harwty Osysctd Gud Lege
with ane G& Copy op hus Previous boot, “ Uetmam
and SEK” whieh F did't Tad | Myeept for

Bre covth wieh $acd The Guten Cutese mame
T comt necalg) had Wenan adutin Te Ofcien
Stone om he YOK amevie-

Goud Luck vivk youn Tork,

Svan conedy qeurs,

Same Romer

ear

 

&
2
a

 

}

 
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

 

June 3, 1997

Mr. Russell A. Langelle

 

|

 

 

Dear Mr. Langelle:

Iam writing you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an independent
Federal Agency established pursuant tothe President John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review Board, whose
members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is charged with
the responsibility of collecting records and information related to the assassination of
President Kennedy. Review Board members and staff are required by law to possess
Top Secret, SCI clearances. The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions
regarding the assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying,
locating, and making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory
material about the Review Board and its mandate.

As Michelle Combs mentioned in her telephone call last Tuesday, we would like very
much to discuss your work experiences in Moscow from 1957-1959 with you. We
believe that your past in-depth knowledge of the Moscow Embassy and its procedures
may assist the ARRB in our attempts to clarify the historical record in this area.

Before talking with you, we would like to make certain that you would feel free to
discuss fully all relevant aspects of your work in Moscow. To the extent that you think
that discussion.of your work might possibly involve classified or sensitive matters, we
would like to resolve such concerns in a way that would provide you with whatever
assurance that you need that you would not be improperly divulging classified
information. If you feel discussing this subject with the Review Board would constitute
disclosure of any information that is still classified, we will be happy to initiate a
discussion between you and the appropriate officials to address any concerns you may
-have.

One of the members of:our staff, Michelle Combs, will be calling to arrange a mutually
agreeable time and place for an interview. Should you wish to contact us in response to

 

 

Boarp Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hali + William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
Executive Dinector: David G. Marwell
possemle and nLee qyniog frat cf
GAs Fred neusaron Ho Caner Om Atacds3
4, you. © Go, howe, Fk mat 5 cam
add absolutely motrume sy value To The
; ‘ aseriatle Te Yous

Un Loumelion Z
So lee te Geely AEpiaw amd

  
      
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  

te wrt
By poms ive oe G set & uses hue fon ax
This poms Lf arto Ur “ysrkd We Oo
bene Ghd wWerey C

cleat vurtas wy

Gnd ds. . .
oe and Tham Kapyes Te get Toqethan |
- Vn Oetopenr

mas f LA j

 

an rpormed wy Me u FE,
Darth Lucrative

Doss and antitles, Wher &

would We: Cx fan ar Cam concemncd Thee ! a

‘ tayiow cli & “Cumaengh and

rer woe ane Gwoe Maak ©
wien Untied LOT wintin en on eo yor
tutelen West 7 :

$ Token our of content,
or cia Supt cut, Gud LA oluennent.
no we set Prev T wrote w Chen TH he Post
peghe ope, Wak wr We Ach Tero Long
pend and £ Coutdatr prem G wnte & I
— i

ce ecco A
2 se

(ious, word

 

 

eT TE a Pr

  

 

 
Layne Dee «
; Conon CTE
Addams io

 

other Cop oF Ca Ratan vitae onan

mre we

adie oh

Octave:

 

 

 
13-00000

Ms. Jane Roman

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

July 10, 1996

 

 

Dear Ms. Roman:

I am writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an
independent Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994): The Review
Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is
charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The
Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the assassination, but is
primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and making available
assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory material about the Review
Board and its mandate. .

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the
Central Intelligence Agency. Several of these records relate to the investigation of Lee
Harvey Oswald’s trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for
Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. We believe that you may be able to
assist us in determining the existence of various assassination records connected with
these events.

We would like to request a meeting to discuss the aforementioned issues. We invite
you to.come to our offices in Washington, but we would be more than willing to meet
you at your home or another convenient location. Because your telephone number is
not listed, we would like you to contact us in the near future to arrange for a convenient

Boaro Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff « Kermit L. Hall * William L. Joyce ¢ Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marweli
   

Ms. Jane Roman
July 10, 1996
Page 2

time for you. For your information, we also have sent a copy of this letter to your other
address.

sociate Director for Research & Analysis
Enclosures
cc: Mr. John Pereira

Historical Review Group
Central Intelligence Agency
oy ; L
Ww

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

24 October 1995

 

{ Ann_L. —

 

Dear Ms. Goodpasture:

This is to confirm our two recent phone conversations

concerning the JFK assassination records. I am writing

this letter in my capacity as the DCI's liaison with the
Assassination Records Review Board.

The Review Board requests the opportunity to interview
you as part of its mandate to identify information relevant
to President Kennedy's assassination that may be released
to the public. The Board members were appointed by
President Clinton under authorization of the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

Mr. Jeremy Gunn, the Board's General Counsel, will contact
you to make arrangements for the interview. You are authorized
to discuss with Board members or staff information pertaining
to the assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in Mexico
City, and any US Government investigations into either.

The Board members and staff have been cleared for
classified information up to Top Secret, including
compartmented information. They have.had complete access to
all pertinent CIA files. Mr. Gunn has an SCI clearance from
the Agency. Therefore, you may answer questions candidly
and completely, including with classifie@ information.
Disclosures to the members and staff of the Board will not
violate your secrecy agreement.

This letter has been prepared in consultation with:
CIA's Office of General Counsel. If you have any questions
concerning this letter, please call me on 703-351-2802.

Sincerely,

Sn Kawi

John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

    

Central Intelligence Agency + Washington, D.C. 20505 » (703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343
104-10333-10009

 

. Mr. Langelle said he had no contact with or instructions from
Counterintelligence Chief James Angleton either before or during his tour of
duty regarding any Moscow related operations.

-¢ Asked about the U-2 flights, Mr. Langelle said he had no knowledge of the U-2
development or flights until after he had returned from Moscow.

Combs e:\langint.wpd
File 4.0.5 (Langelle)
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

March 25, 1996

Mr. John Horton

Dear Mr. Horton:

 

 

Iam writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an
independent Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John.F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The Review
Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, is
charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The
Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the assassination, but is
primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and making available

- assassination records. Iam enclosing some explanatory material about the Review
Board and its mandate.

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the
Central Intelligence Agency. Several of the records relate to the investigation of Lee
Harvey Oswald’s trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for
Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. We have some questions about these
subjects as well as a related event that involved James Angleton traveling to Mexico
City in 1971 to acquire Win Scott’s papers. We hope that you may be able to assist us in
determining the existence of various assassination records connected with the events
described above.

We would like to request a meeting to discuss the aforementioned issues. We invite

_ you to come to our offices in Washington, but we would. be more than willing to meet
you at your home or another convenient location. We will be contacting you in the near
future to arrange fora convenient time for you.

yours, ,

ane Glen

hg

eo eral Chansel and Associate Director for Research & Analysis
Enclosures

cc: Mr. John Pereira

Boar Memaers: John R.-Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
   

a AThON

a ' ,

: % Assassination Records Review Board
< “ 600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor +» Washington, DC 20530
* 2 (202} 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

i
‘Bw 9°

March 25, 1996

Mr. Robert Shaw

 

 

 

 

Dear Mr. Shaw:

_Iam writing to you on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board, an

independent Federal Agency established pursuant to the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U'S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994). The
Review Board, whose members are appointed by the President and confirmed by the
Senate, is charged with collecting records related to the assassination of President
Kennedy. ‘The Review Board is not seeking to reach any conclusions regarding the
assassination, but is primarily concerned with identifying, clarifying, locating, and
making available assassination records. I am enclosing some explanatory material
about the Review Board and its mandate.

As part of our mandate, we have been reviewing records that originated with the
Central Intelligerice Agency. Several of these records relate to the investigation of Lee
Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City and his alleged association with the Fair Play for
Cuba Committee and anti-Castro organizations. In addition, we have reviewed your
testimony to the Housé Select Committee on Assassinations and have concluded that
you may be able to answer some questions related to certain Cuban matters of the case.
You also may be able to assist us in determining the existence of various assassination
records connected with the events described above. -

We would like to request a preliminary telephone interview to discuss. the
aforementioned issues. We will be contacting you in the near future to arrange for a
convenient time for you.
Sincerely yours,
~ Grn,
eémyAsunn
General Counsel and Associate Director for Research & Analysis

Enclosures

cc: Mr. John Pereira

Boaro Memeens: John AR. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce - Anna K. Nelsen
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
