 

1044016710107

 

 

 

ORCA FOR TRE RECGZD

  

Ph-Narch 1953.
RBIs Staffing of the Revalutionnry Comet

2. Around oon of 2b Merch 1961 Mir. Curr atriced os telephonically thes
he hed boom in touch with Mire Cericem. Miro futends to sppeiat Yarona,
Revie, Carrillo, Airtime and Rey (cr Pusos) to the Goud].

2. Hire wurted to be Gtrised Vavthar Tarona ond Bovis would be acceptable
to'pociticone ee Secretaries of Lefesuo and Atate ( Niro 414 not feel strongly
ae to thich of the tro got ubich position). The cther above-untioned ine |
divi¢uris would temererily act es ministers without portfoilo. veo tha |
eopcintmarts to the positions OF Gate snd Darenee vould Bot bow ba mncunced.
Gorr wentad to kuev if tha foregoing veo alright vith ws.

§. Gee question of tae best vet Secttaate tar the posttica of Secretary
of Defcane vas 4! ssuseed by Messrs end Draller subsequent to br Cerr's
teleghona call, it be-oened that and ACE /% ware we thet cent to

_ Oe ctfiee of the DCT ead tims toe problen ves referred tO that Level. for the
“ @ecieion, Ths follovirg d4qziaion reisyed to Messref jens Broiler by we
AC figs waa trenanitted to Er. Corr 6 2030 this datai 9

@. Rr. Carr should try to persunds Mize-to-give Artine te peattoite ©
of Defemes Secretary: Cary consis cive sa rencena: for coy fanlingas drtios'a.

popolarity, , Js youth, bis ability end resiizess to: go {ate Guba toprtier
with tha eodale f CEB ©

Be Ie Kiro dove uct want Artina sesigaed to this position, Carr sould
¢het Verona wight raise uaay problems in wiew of hia well-tacen position
eencarning strick Cxven control cf troops at this pertionler tia. ,

Vanes develops auring Wise focthecming mewting vith Miro, Hey
Gare doula st ell tiase bo Bost Flasthle ad BON demand men. :

sir. cari ven also eiviset ‘vo tell Kiso thet we vould prefer-caly the mn’ gives
ie portfolio of Defense to acouxpany Kiro on his fcrihooning trip to the amma.
3f however either Kevia or Varcna vars givum the porsfolie, thin ve foal either

 

 

 
