CONFIDENTIAL

5. Apparently Gunn had alerted at least one member of
the Board prior to our meeting that CIA was discovering new
or additional documents. Having accepted that the
“discoveries” were explainable as bureaucratic errors and
not duplicity on our part, he then asked for two things:

A. He.is concerned that there may be other 201
files on the key players in the JFK story with information
added to them since 1978, which information we do not have.
Thus, he asked that we run searches on the key players (he
will provide the names) to see if there is additional,
follow-on information in them a la the Oswald file. I
agreed to do that.

B. Gunn stated that our “discoveries.” not only
the recent ones but ones. which have dribbled in over the
past year, suggest to him and the Board that the Agency may

not have engaged in a serious records search pursuant to the

Act and John Peiria’s 3 October 1993 letter. I assured him
that this impression was not trie. Nevertheless, he asked
that the DCI direct a final search for assassination related
records and that the records, if any, be included within the
collection and processed and, that our final compliance
statement reflect the fact we had conducted such a “final”
search. I have prepared a suggested Notice to this effect
together with guidance concerning what is relevant.

SS Ve

 

    

CONFIDENTIAL
 

(O4-10394-10162]

i

CONFIDENTIAL

6 July 1998:

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: Meeting With ARRB Staff Director (6s wald 201 File)

i. At the request of Jeremy Gunn, ARRB Executive
Director, I met with him and ARRB Staff members, Michelle
Combs. : ixot on Friday 26 June 1998. Also present
were nd Denny Hess of the DDO group assigned
to the JFK Project and a HRP contractor.

 

2. Gunn had requested the meeting because of an
impression that the Agency had found a new volume of 201
file. on Lee Harvey Oswald, one that neither he nor the Board
had been made aware. Following my explanation of. the facts
and his review of the documents in question, Gunn stated he
was satisfied: The “201” file in question is, in fact,
Oswald's 201 which continues to exist and new documents are
added to it as they arrive. The fact there were additional
Oswald documents not now within HRP for review and
processing had come to my attention about two weeks earlier.
I had directed the DO to determine what they were and to
make them available for our review. That was in process
while I was away June 22 through 25.

. 3. There were nine new documents within the file all
of which are now available for processing. When we first
started the JFK project and secured the Oswald 201 for
review, processing and release, newly arriving documents
were to be sent to us. In fact, we had added a document to
the file which had been sent to us per the arrangement but
it was not in the 201. Quite simply, the arrangement broke
down, probably because of a change in personnel, and we did
not receive follow-on documents.

4. ‘A second area of concern was the fact we have
within the collection Marina Oswalds 201 and it has been
processed. However, we did not have the original and it was
recently discovered by the DO. It is a three volume set and
our concern was the ARRB would view the recent discovery of
the original as something improper on our part. A thorough
review of both the original and the copy already processed
determined that, except for third agency documents, they are
a mirror image; one to the other. This circumstance too was
explained to Gunn who tested our review and was satisfied
that no harm was done.

CONFIDENTIAL
