 

 

eT eg ee

Pern

   

“Ta

—— NE TTC
CONTINUATION OF io SECRET |  uPGW-s348

 

 

 

_be the following:

, UIBPATCM BTMGOL AND NUMBER

DISPATCH

eh

 

to arrange: for this with the Kefupee Center either on a free
or a relmburnaable basis. If the Kefugeo Center is unable to
provide this personnel, SH¥AVE will then scek assistance from..
the Florida State we)fore aepten via Wm, Cordon Salch-os the
Florida State Vocational Kehabilitation Office.

3. Station JUWAVE wil} also uttiize ite independent
assets to run bank and credit checks to su

, bations conducted by the social workors.

4. Tho American social worker from the Nefugee Center
will, in conjunction with the Ai UD caso officer, prepare
individual recommendations for continuation or termination of

assistance using the results of tne investigation and the
-., eredit and bank checka.

In general, the criteria to be used

for recommonding termination-or-continuation of benefits will

A. .Widows who have remarried or who have contracted

‘stable common law marriages, will normally not. be eligible
‘for further benefita. If these women have minor children,

these will continuo to receive behefits ata scale to be

determined. ne .

B. Parente of Brigade and/or ‘Woroes and Martyrs"
dead are-to be evaluated’ for further assistance on. the basis

of other income, age and health... Bocommendations: in-each cago.

will be governed by individual circumstances,

C.. Other relatives or persona receiving dependency
benefits will be recommended for termination except in cases
of demonstrable hardship. Minor children will continue to
receive agnistance until age 18. 2

' &. When the investigattons and recommendations havo been
completed, Station JMYAVK will forward these to Headquarters
which will, if warranted, make appropriate proposals to the —
303 Committee for authority to carry: out the recommendations,

Edward D. SABETAY

Distribution:
2 - COS, JMWAVE

ee

: ns ae it comrinvag | -
ie Sle verre : ot
ci mo . a

  

"hee

Pplement the tnvestt-
 

104: Ae. 084

fore en ne ee A te 0 Nee ene nan ncn t

“DISPATC

 

   
   
   
 
 

 

gaat

..Deputy Chief, WH for Cuba. oe cite nee oie cine ee
© TYPIC/AMBUD Benofit Payments Te

' Brigade members wil] be continued without interruption until

the AMTIKI/1 office. Station JMAAVE ta requested to attempt ¢

  
 
 
 

PaDeesyeie. aie

JH

Chief of Station, UMWAVE

wanes 168 init ring

 

 

KX lee wnt ees srQuiteD

 

CARLY GoM CH8

   

 

 

MUD AULA

1. Tho following conclusions have been reachad on the
basia of discungsiono with Alice Ub. CAPONONG at Headquarters
on 29 July:

A. The present program for vocational rehabilitation
of wounded members of the Brigado wil] be continued without
change-unti1 its normal termination date. Medical rehabilita-
“tion will continue without Antorruption. . .

B. Pregent payments to the dependents of imprisoned
the prisonors can be recovered from..onomy bands. -

; C.% Paynenta to dependents of Swprisoned persons on
the "Heroes and Martyrs" rolla will be continued without
interruption until thesao are recovered from enemy hands,

D. Those listed as missing from among Brigade
members and "Heroes and Martyra” rolls must now be considered
killed.in action,

 

E. We will undertake an investigation of the circum-
stancos of a1] persons receiving payments as dependents of
dead or missing Brigade and/or Heroes and Vartyra” liste to
determine whether continued financial assistance ia still
warranted.

2. The investigation should be initiated with a
questionnaire to be sent by ANTIKI/] to each recipient of | 3
assistance requiring him (or her) to provide information on’
his (or her) current marital status, income,. Jiving ‘conditions,
dependents, etc. dhen replios to the questionnaires havo been .
received, the AMTIZI/1 office will undertake an investigation
of each case. It is contemplated that the investigations will
actually be carried out by Cuban social case workers of the
Refugee Center working under direction of a senior American
officinl of the lefugce Center. For the purposes of ‘this
investigation, the investigators will operate as employees of

 

61a 5 AABOL AND NUDATER } cart aa

 

BGY-S34¢—-——-—— 1 4-124-25 “ijl BAG as
CLASH BT mae MRE fasta
-

SECRET | y9-324-95 -

   

fed
2 ONC ~ fn
1 - WH/C/COPS WH/C/COPS: TJFlores: dap <7 é i 7264
1 - WH/C/ESEC . COE EI ee
1 - RID Files Treaty Tl

 

 

 

 

 

_ ote ak’ 7 oe :

 

a on = DIS PATCH

 

 

teat fhe grace

 

Sessa Where. neers Ket ctal._-mencet eagtPMeces npc
