74-00000

x. .

Dr, Miguel Alvarez, of Miami, Florida, is mentioned

in the press as a contributor of funds to obtain Bernard

L. Barker's release on bail, Dr. Alvarez is a grandfather _
of Mr. Barker's daughter, Maria Elena Barker Moffett,

 

 

x tees Bailey, nationally known trail lawyer, has agreed
to meet with James W. McCord to discuss his case with
him, according to press reports. No pertinent Agency
traces :

Representative William S. Moorehead is identified in the 7 oS

‘press as Chairman of the House Foreign Operations and
Government Information subcommittee, which is looking |
into the activities of the Special Analysis Division an Air
Force Wing involved in wartime information coordinating
activities, Until January 1972, the unit was commanded
by James W. McCord. Mr. McCord resigned from the
unit because of "pressure from outside ventures and’
business activities,

Urban A. Lester is identified in the press as one of three
lawyers representing Douglas Caddy. (Douglas Caddy was
brought into the Watergate case by the wife of Bernard L,
Barker, Caddy is a personal friend of Bernard L, Barker,

-and is ta be called as a witness to explain his own n association

 

with E. Howard Hunt.) _ . _

 

Mr. Lester was born on 24 August 1929 at Knoxville,

-Tennessee. He received a Bachelor of Arts Degree at

Catholic University of America in 1954, and-a Doctor

of Laws Degree there in 1959. He was admitted to the
District of Columbia Bar in 1962, From 1963 to 1969 Mr.
Lester served as Special Counsel with the Federal Home
Loan Bank, and from 1967 to 1969 represented the State of
Alaska, He is a member of the Federal and American Bar

Associations, and a Captain in the U, S. Air Force Reserves,

Mr. Lester is associated with Lester and Contrucci, Suite
709, 1776 K Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.; telephone:
(202) 659-9010,

weer cpeeeee ne ee
74-00000

VO ae

11.

Q.

A.

Jose Garciga is identified in the press as one of the

 

three subscribers to the articles of incorporation of 9».

Ameritas, and involved with Barker Associates, Miami, a
Florida, in the building of the Biarritz Tower, a Miami -
condominium,

Garciga may be identical to Jose Ricardo Ramon Garciga
Orbe, born 31 August 1922 in Cuba, He came to the
United States on 9 September 1961, In May 1962, he was
an unemployed accountartt, and had been a member of the
MRR, an anti-Castro group. He was interviewed by a_

- representative of the Contacts Division of this Agency on |
6 April 1962, at the request of Robert King High, Mayor ~"-_

of Miami. Garciga Orbe was at that time interested in -

‘organizing a group to sail close to Cuba to intercept
. Cuban radio broadcasts, He planned to interject dis-

respectful statements, and to correct any untruthful
statements. .

Marta E, Palamo is identified in the press as the secretary -

of Miguel A, Suarez (Sarrain) at Ameritas, and one of the ;
incorporators of that firm, No identifiable data, - ,

Maria E. Rios is identified in the press as one of the
incorporators of Ameritas. No identifiable data,

 

: “Henry B. Rothblatt is mentioned in the press as the new.

attorney (7 July 1972) for Bernard L, Barker. The press
indicates that Mr, Rothblatt defended Colonel Oran
Henderson in the MyLai massacre case. Agency files
contain references to Mr, Rothblatt's association with the
"Green Berets" case,

Gerald Alch, described in the news media as an associate

of F, Lee Bailey, accompanied James W. McCord to his
District of Columbia. Superior Court hearing on 6 July 1972.
Agency files have revealed no record on Mr. Alch,

OTHER PERSONS WHOSE ACTIVITIES RELATE TO THOSE OF
JAMES W, MC CORD, JR.

Norton R. Schonfeld is mentioned by Dr, Edward M. Gunn .
as Coordinator of the Law Enforcement Curriculum ai

10
y4-gou09

I.

 

Dorothy N. Berry, of Houston, Texas, is mentioned
in the press as a sister-in-law of James W. McCord,
and one of the officers of McCord Associates. No
identifiable Agency data.
Kenneth W. Parkinson i 3 mentioned in the press as an
attorney represent e Nixon Re-Election Committee,
He testified at a hearing in the damage suit brought

by the Democratic National Committee against the ;
principals in the Watergate incident, No identifiable
data,

  
 

Angel Ferrer, Miami, Florida, is mentioned in the press 7
as having been at the Watergate at the time of the raid, .
Ferrer claims he was actually in Miamithen. He is - .
identified in the press as a former member of Ex-Combat-.
ientes de Fort Jackson, a Cuban exile organization. Not
identifiable on the basis of available information.

Charles W. Colson is identified in the press as a Special
Consultant to the President, and Everette Howard Hunt, Jr. a
is alleged to have served as his part-time "consultant." |

The news media states that Colson and Hunt are "friends"
dating back to 1966, when they were officers of the Brown
University Club of Washington, Agency traces reflect a
relationship with him as a consultant to an Agency

~~ €ontrattor between 1964 and 1969 as-reported above, ~- Sms nee

Mario Lazo is identified in the press as a lawyer now living

in Norfolk, Connecticut, who represented Americans in
Cuba, and who asked Edward Bennett Williams help some

. years ago to get Bernard L, Barker's citizenship back,

This individual is Mario Lazo y Guiral, a 77 year old
lawyer and writer who represented American interests in
Cuba for many years, He is an American citizen, and
was an "unofficial" contact of the Havana Station. He has
been in frequent contact with the Agency over the years,"
and was considered for use as a Spotter in 1962, As recently
as November 1971, Lazo was of interest to the Boston Office
of the Domestic Contact Service, He has had.no other official
relationship with the Agency,

s

see ema ese mniee
74-0Q000

F.

> ete Sd

Leonard Glasser, Miami, Florida, architect, is
mentioned in the press as having been asked by
Bernard L. Barker, to provide him last year with
blueprints of the Miami Beach Convention hall and
its air conditioning system. No identifiable traces,

 

Incorporated, Holmes, New York,
the press as a wiretapping expert,- He provided
general commentary on the field of wiretapping. No
identifiable information, :

Hector de Lara is mentioned in the press as an

accountant, and Treasurer of Ameritas, Incorporated, .
No identifiable data,

Robert C, Mardian is mentioned in the press as a

Republican Party official whom Mr. McCord reportedly
called twice during the week before the Watergate
incident, He is a former Assistant Attorney General

in charge of the Division of Internal Security, and was

a special assistant to the former Republican Party
campaign director, John N. Mitchell, Mr. Mardian _
claimed not to know Mr. McCord, and said he might

have talked to him about clearing a driver for the
Republican Convention, Unidentified press sources state .
that Mr, Mardian and Mr, McCord were acquainted in_
1969-1970, when Mr, Mardian was General Counsel with.
the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

Agency files reflect that Mr. Mardian was born on 23 October
1923 in Pasadena, California, The Federal Bureau of
Investigation conducted a favorable background investigation
on him in March 1969, He was granted Special Clearances |
by the Agency in December 1970 in connection with his work .
at the Department of Justice. The clearances were

dropped when he left there, effective 1 May 1972.

Manuel Artime is mentioned in the press as a Cuban exile
military leader of the 1961 invasion, and one with "links

to the Republican Party.'' He is otherwise listed as Manuel
Artime Buesa. Headquarters files contained extensive data,
but not in relation to the Watergate incident,
74-0000

Cy e

. ey
on was al Agency asset in
from February 1951 until January 1954, He

was an occasional contact of the fl.
ater during 1954, but has had no Agency
affiliation since that time. He aow practices law in

. Los Angeles, California.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G. Operation Rival

No specifics were provided by the FBI, except that the
query was related to Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga.
Agency checks to date have revealed no reference to this
operation,

D. Manuel Giberga

The Miami Field Office of the FBI expressed an interest
in Mr. Giberga, Although he expressed interest in Agency
employment in 1966, he has never been an Agency employee.
He was said to be Secretary General of La Cruz (The

' Cross) in 1960. This was allegedly a Cuban anti-Communist
underground organization,

E, - Santiago Morales Diaz

The Miami Field Office of the FBI expressed an interest in

 

nf

- —-—- Morales ‘Diaz,.. He was a member of the Brigade 2506, was
infiltrated into Cuba before the Bay of Pigs invasion, and
evaded capture until August 1961. He was sentencedto _
death, then to 30 years, He escaped from prison in. 1967,
was recaptured, and as of February 1972 was reported to
be still a prisoner. He was known by the war name "Diego.
Also, a person named Santiago Morales, matronymic unknown,
used the war name "Felipe" during 1961.

F. Miguel Suarez Sarrain

Mr. Sarrain is the real estate partner of Bernard L. Barker,
one of the principals in the Watergate incident, The data
regarding Suarez Sarrain outlined elsewhere in this memo-
yandum was furnished to the FBI,
14-90000 | . . : At: . * “s F VP

G. Reinaldo Quintero

~ ae The Miami Field Office of the FBI expressed an .
interest in this individual, :

Quintero, also known as "Felipe," was a Cuban :
Air Force Captain who was a member or contact |
of Unidad Revolucionaria (Revolutionary vei) 4
Cuba. .

H. Manuel Ozar rio

aka: Manuel Ogarrio Daguerre

The Federal Bureau of Investigation expressed an
‘interest in Subject, . Agency traces were negative,

I, War Name ''Felipe"™

The Miami Field Office of the FBI expressed an interest
in this name, Cur research led to the possibility that

the name might be linked to Santiago Morales Diaz or to -
Reinaldo Quintero,

10,, MEDIA PUBLICITY

The following additional persons have received mention in the
media in connection with the Watergate incident:

A. Humberto. Lopes. is. identified in the press 2s having” been” ~
at the Watergate at the time of the alleged at tempt to
install listening devices in the Democratic National
Committee Headquarters, He also has been identified
by the press as a member of the Ex-Combatientes Cubanos
de Fort Jackson, although one report says he is not, No

identifiable data in Agency files.

 

B. William Alexander, North Miami Beach, Florida, is
mentioned in the press as the former President of
Ameritas, Incorporated, He is an Eastern Air Lines
test pilot, and a veteran of the Bay of Pigs. On the basis
of information available to date, he is not identifiable in
Agency records.

 

 
74-00000

wh ae

3.

4.

5.

AMERITAS, INCORPORATED

Ameritas, Incorporated, has now been identified as a legitimate
real estate firm in Miami, Florida, Principal officers are Miguel
pA Suarez and Bernard L, Barker , :

* AGENCY EMPLOYEE

On 5 July 1972 Donald T. Hester, DDP/Covert Action Staff,
received an inquiry from Mr. Carl Bernstein, of the Washington
Post, in regard to Howard Hunt, Mr. Hester has been socially
and professionally acquainted with Mr. Hunt for 20 years, An
Office of Security representative plans to contact Mr. Hester
for details, :

WHITE HOUSE STAFF

Charles W, Golson is a Special Assistant to President Nixon,’
and reportedly hired Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., 2s a White
House Consultant, Mr, Colson was born on 16 October 1931
at Boston, Massachusetts, In 1963 he was employed by Craig
Systems, Incorporated, Lawrence, Massachusetts, and held a
Secret Air Force clearance, In August 1964, he was a legal
consultant to the Controls Division of the Leach Corporation,
Azusa, California, with offices at Gadsby, Hannah, Colson

"and Merin, 729 15th Street; Washington, “Do C.~ On 9 September

6.

1964 he was cleared at the Secret level for use on an Agency
contract with the Leach Corporation, The contract, which was
security-supervised by Mr, Louis Edward Sherrard, terminated
_on 17 December 1969, Mr..Sherrard's relationship with Mr.

McCord has been previously reported,
,

 

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION INTER VIEWS

A, Stephen T. Anderson

Stephen T. Anderson, as noted previously, was a summer

employee of this Agency in 1963 and 1965, and is currently
a Security Officer for the Committee for the Re-election of
the President, Mr. Anderson was interviewed by the FBI

on 30 June 1972, He told them he had no knowledge of the

case, explained his relationship with Messrs, McCord and
Hunt, and identified their photographs,
 

T04-10256-10288]

- ROBERT R, MULLEN AND COMPANY ,

A

“3 JUL i979

WATERGATE INCIDENT

 

BACKGROUND : : :

Over the week-end of 1-2 July 1972 James W. McCord
negotiated to retain F, Lee Bailey as his attorney, Ata
preliminary hearing in District of Columbia Superior Court
on 6 July 1972, Mr. McCord was bound over to the grand
jury after an unsuccessful attempt by his current attorney, .
Gerald Alch, to have burglary charges against his client
dropped,

Bernard L, Barker has retained as his attorney Henry
Rothblatt, of New York City. Mr. Rothblatt defended Colonel
Oran Henderson during his court-martial in connection with
the Mylai incident in Vietnam, .

The remaining three Watergate incident suspects continue
to retain Joseph A. Rafferty as their attorney, although he has
stated that they will soon all have their own lawyers.

Robert Foster Bennett, Director and Executive Vice-President

of Robert R. Mullen and Company, the Washington, D. C,, public
relations firm which employed Everette Howard Hunt, has admitted
to the press a former relationship between his firm, Radio Free
Cuba, and this Agency. Robert R. Mullen and Company currently
provides cover for two Agency assets, Of interest also is the

fact that the mention of Robert R. Mullen and Company in the press
has caused Philip Agee, a disaffected former Agency staii officer
who-is planning to write a book about the Agency, to comment that
he is aware of certain cover arrangements entered inte by the
Agency and Robert R. Mullen and Company in the past,
ep . , 2 eS aol

B. Juan Rigoberto Ruiz Villegas ° 2
16-22
Ruiz Villegas is a former asset of the\Santiago, Chile,
Station) and a personal friend o
Villegas was interviewed by the FBI on 27 June 1972,
He was asked if he knew why Mr.. McCord had paid
y check, and gave the same explanation
reported earlier--that the payments were for odd jobs
he (Ruiz Villegas) performed for Mr. McCord. The
FBI also asked the names of persons employed at
McCord Associates; what work he did for Mr. McCord;
whether Mr. McCord ever brought cameras to the office;
and the degree of access Ruiz Villegas had to Mr, McCord's
office files, Ruiz Villegas claimed he answered all questions
\ truthfully. .

 

7 FORMER AGENCY ASSET IS FATHER OF PARTNER OF
BERNARD L, BARKER

Miguel A, Suarez Fernandez is the father of Miguel A, Suarez

Sarrain, the real estate partner of Bernard L, Barker, Suarez

Fernandez was granted a Provisional Operational Approvalin

1962 for use in radio and written propaganda, apparently for

the Voice of Cuba, His file does not reflect whether or not he

was ever used, although one source reported a rumor that he was
one -of-the-directors of Radio. ‘Swan-—His Provisional Operational . ae

Approval was cancelled in October 1962,- aia ee

 

Suarez Fernandez was born in Las Villas, Guba, on 5 July 1903.
' He received a law degree at the University of Havana in 1924, .
Active in Cuban politics, he was elected a senator on four
successive occasions, and served as President of the Senate
from 1945 to 1950. In 1950 he was reportedly associated with
the Revolutionary Insurrectional Union, a gangster-type organi-
zation which he reportedly used to further his political ends,
He was named Minister of State in May 1951, but resigned in
August and went to Spain, In 1952 he returned to Cuba and
occupied posts under Batista for a short period, In 1954 he was
again elected a senator, representing Las Villas,

lr
4-20000

 

ee Ve

SON OF FORMER AGENCY ASSET IS PARTNER OF
BERNARD L, BARKER .

Miguel A, Suarez mentioned in an earlier Watergate

Incident Status Report dated 26 June 1972, has now been -
correctly identified as Miguel A, Suarez Sarrain, The
previously reported information about his real estate
partnership with Bernard L. Barker and his Republican
Party activities in Florida is correct, He has not, however,
been in contact with this Agency at any time, and the Agency
has had no contact with his firm, Ameritas, On the other
hand, his father, Miguel A, Suarez Fernandez, was granted -
a Provisional Operational Approval in 1962, as noted =~
previously. : .

Miguel A, Suarez Sarrain was born in Cuba in about 1936,

and is a United States citizen, He is married to. Yolanda
Suarez Sarrain, was educated in the United States, and passed
the Florida Bar examinations in 1963. Prior to 1965 he

was a law clerk for Attorney Ellis S. Rubin, Miami Beach,
Florida, He also worked as secretary of the Pan American
‘Drug Company in Miami, of which his father was President.
Suarez Sarrain was an unsuccessful Republican candidate for
mayor of Miami in 1971.

FEDERAL BUREAU OE ee

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION- INQUIRIES

The Federal Bureau of investigation has inquired regarding
the following additional individuals and activities:

A. William Marihugh

The specific reason for the FBI's interest in Mr,
Marihugh was not stated, Mr. Marihugh entered on
duty with this Agency on 31 March 1958, He retired
under a medical disability as a GS-14 Electronics
Engineer on 16 February 1972.

B. Morton Barrows Jackson

Mr, Jackson and Everette Howard Hunt are believed to
have been in contact with each other during early 1972. *
Mr, Jackson listed Mr. Hunt as a Character Reference

on his Agency employment application in August 195¢c.

ee omen — ———
