74-0000

6.

 

$s EGR ET y

Page 2

The quality and timeliness of his operational reporting is

- excellent. His outstanding handling of the language required

for his job -both oral and written- aids greatly in his work.

There igs no question that NOEMAYR is of long range interest

to the clandestine serVices. After the present assignment I
believe a short course in covert training either at Headquarters
or at Isolation would be of value. NGEMAYR could contribute
greatly to the program as well as gain from the work done at
either installation,

It is hoped that if the present Station is moved into the country
of interest NOEMAYR will be able to go along, as his value will be
enhanced even further in that country. .

DS

 

 

 

SECRET

 

 

i
'
 

104-10194-10007 ‘

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 

a

 

1 October 1962

Assessment of Harold R. NOEMAYR, C12, $9795.00

Task Force W, CA Section, JMWAVE

Handles exile student group, directing their propaganda, political
action, training of infiltration teams in sabotage, agit prop,

and intelligence colicction., Has built up radio broadcasting
production and dissemination capability which he directs over
fixed and mobile (boat) transmitters. Has supervised TV intrusion
(voice only) operations which have been successful, Handles
Singleton agents engaged in editorial writing, press placement, and

propaganda leaflet production. JMDUSK

 

NOEMAYR's cover ts that of an employee of | ae
and this cover is effective in his dealings with

non-operational contacts, Subject's operational contacts are
aware that he represents ODYOKE interests if not KUBARK's,

NOEMAYR is a worker with tremendous energy and ability. He works

‘best in fields with which he has definite interest which presently

encompass printed propaganda, Student activity in the psychological
warfare; paramtlitary and information collection fields, radio

press and TV exploitation, NOEMAYR puts himself completely into

his job excluding all other interests and on occasion his discourage-
ment(shared by many at the Station over lack of specific policy

to drive ahead as we would desire) has caused him to display patterns
of social behavior which have presented handling problems, These
have been taken care of by his supervisors to the satisfaction of

all concerned and it is expected that there will be no recurrence

of these problems. The above is not meant to cast any reflection
whatsoever on the quality or the effectiveness of NOEMAYR's work.

le has assured his supervisors that these problems are a thing of

the past.

NOEMAYR has showa that he is proficient in spotting, assessing,
recruiting and handling agents. He has had an ample supply of
candidates in the student group which he handles, but has shown
his versatility in training infiltration teams in various fields,
Nis physical and mental aptitudes for PM and Maritime activities

make him a natural in these fields.

a.

b. NOEMAYR’s production of CA, CI and especially FI information
has shown improvement during the past year. While at first
‘his contacts were not providing him all the above information
available to them, the situation has improved considerably and

is improving further,

NOEMAYR has no problems in living his cover and has no apparent
stresses as a result of the dual life imposed upon us. He is
best at operating independently without strong support. He
seems to make a better and stronger singleton operator than a

ry

Ce

 
