 

cae

3)
ae

CF OG Y
CONT LRUATION UFGA~1837 “ae

a@uother source of income, be would offer bis services to direct _
@ eebotege department in this group and might even break with
RAY i€ this group bad wore econcaic support than the MAP.

7. ANMCHEEZ-1 felt taat Subject ie mostly interested in
solving bis econowic situation. In the second place, he showed
himself to be anti-American and ia fevor of all Marxist Lawa.

He is a shrewd talker and behaves as a CGatsunite-trained
individual. We acts like others who have been classitied as “bad
Conmmimists but Communiste in the end, sltacugh they wight aot
even be aware o£ this themselves.

Paula K, THYFAULT

Distribution:
3-Headquarters
2-Files

® Juky 1961

PEI/lbe
 

 

04-40274-10151

 

Chief, WaD

1O . MEAQQUARTINS PAE 2D
eed ,

 

att

_._ Chief ef Base, JMHAVE
“arc!” Operational /JMATE
Interview with Or. Orestes Stithesds Garcia

ATI oe USED

RE, 743 37 — ORCK WK ONE
TY 5

 
   
 
  

INDEXING CAN RE JUDGED
GY QUAUTULD HQ DISK ONLY

aEsCeONC SE

1. On 30 June 196] AMCHEER-1 interviewed Subject, who
claims to direct an uaderground group fa Gaba. Subject is
a Cuban, sulatto, stout, and not very learned, AMCHEER-1
doubeca that he is a lawyer although he might be a solicitor.
Be resides at 3855 Brooker Street, near Grand Avenue, Coconut
Grove, Miami; phone 4I 4-2700. Be lives with his sister
and a cousin. \

2, MENESES claimed that two days ago he had talked to
Manola RAY and thet they had discussed uniting his group to
the MP, He said that RAY had offered him a position in the
Executive Comittee of the MRI, where he would ba-under the
commend of a man called “Zugenio", chief of the underground

section.

3. MENSSES stated that his underground group in Cuba
bas members in abana who belong to the construction sector,
others in Sagua and Senta Clara who belong to rele
sector, and that another of their wembere was!
who is a leader of the suger workers. He said thét in Habana he
has 8 captains who are chiefs of groups in a cellular organization.
Ba said that he had made contact ia: Miami with Cesar LANCIS
Bravo and Losberto “DIAZ Peres, but that they had not kept
their word. (From this AMCHEER-1. deduced that they did act give
him money.) :

 

4. On a table AMCHEER:1 saw that Subject had just .
received some aail addressed to Andrea “GARCIA. Subject said
that he received many letters from Guba at that address, but
using many different addressee nares. vee .

  

$. Subject claims to ba anti-Cosmnict but says that hej: -
“does not agree either with the Americans who-are a bunch. of,
g.0.b's." He believes that the revolutionaries are the ongs -
who have to overthrow CASTRO and then continue with the work
of the revolucion, as he believes that most of the laws issued
: by CASTRO have to be kept, such as agrarian reform, urban
reform, nationalization of the leading industries ete. He said
RAY wants to prepare hin, ag he is preparing ottermen, to be
sent to Puerto Rico to obtain support {rom the uatong and set
them against the American Governaent, which ia not acting
according to proletarian He said he was in contact
with a labor leader called and he has 4 man named
riiags.

fou) workiog in Oubaua

 

 

 

6. Subject proposed that AMCHEER-L act as intervediary
with the boya being trained by the latter, 60 that AMcHacRel
would angcetrinate thea in favor of KAY'S inturecsts, thwever,
beans ¢raine! by AMDHLERS h had

‘ ~ . f' RAY zee spel
. . . . vs J i
DISPATCH | seeenr | urwe37 |
t

Subject saad 2f Cds Brovy
