74-00000

 

[ow ¢78Yoss |- .
31 August 1978 H SCA

Aide Memoire UC RECORD COP Y

SUBJECT : Issues in Pending HSCA Subpoenas

 

 

1. CIA has restricted access by HSCA representatives. to
two sets of documents, which led to the Committee's voting a sub-

- poena shortly prior to the recess by the House. Two other items. _
of information that were included in the subpoena had been reviewed
by HSCA representatives prior to voting the subpoena. So far
as we know no action has yet been taken to serve the subpoena
formally. Its reported date of return is 6 September.

 

2. The two files on which we have restricted access deal
with two separate subjects, as follows:

 

 

a. An operational file involving a sensitive Covert
Action program, in which a person of interest to the
HSCA was one of a number of. targets. The HSCA has
reviewed the 201 file of the person in question for the period
January 1973 through May 1964, but the separate operational
file has not been shown. The nature of the operation has
' been outlined to Mr. Blakey and his deputy, Mr. Cornwell.
The presentation emphasized the sensitivity of the operation
and its lack of relevance to the HSCA inquiry.

i The history of the Mexico City Station for the period
o

 

1969. It covers all activities of the Station over a period

ime almost entirely irrelevant to the purpose of the
HSCA investigation. Only a few references in the Mexico
City Station history can be considered relevant to the issue
of President Kennedy's assassination, and these have been
seen by HSCA representatives. Substantial sections of other
portions of the history have been shown the HSCA Chief
Counsel and Staff Director, Mr. Blakey and to his deputy,
Mr. Cornwell.

 

3. The grounds offered for withholding these documents
are a mix of sensitivity and relevance. Traditionally the
Agency claims the sensitivity of subject matter as a basis for
giving special handling to materials shown external investigators,
while Mr. Blakey asserts that the Congress reserves the
right to judge relevance. There is something of an anomaly in
these positions, because the evolution of the working agree-
ments with HSCA has to a degree comproinised the basic position
of both parties. ‘

2oz3¥3

 

68
 

 

it

7

Goa,

= 101

   

. RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 

SEMORANDUM FOR, 34/9307 - :

  
 
 
  

Maly about a technical

3tion of the AUotuanA

i how it best De

‘cides to initiate

with tao DOI. |
I
|

255ue davolved in
PAW tedly voted ber
en Gf Chairmen

      

       
 
 

Mather wilt disapnesr,
© avenuclity that at Becoias a
Live issue, it seolnd bast to present sone of |

 

tne cat lexities of the *Restioan of what the
Coniittee might claiis to de its rights under

 

 

the tsnorandun of Usderstunding antarad into in |
aiet 1977, und the Aeladl: 2yYeed An the
folowing January, , l

faq attached briefing prmer attermts to
teeville the bagde issue, u 1
Sve technical insuns be avcidad da
OF “he ceoblon, dy: favor of & More gai
sun reasominy anproveh,

   
  

 

USE FREES

EOITiOs

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. The original Memorandum of Understanding, executed in
August 1977, commits the Agency to provide access to material
“that bears upon the study and investigation authorized by
H. Res. 222,"' which we see as referring to relevance. It
also recognized the limitations placed on access depending on
"the responsibility of the DCI to protect sensitive intelligence
sources and methods."" An amendment to the original agreement |
was negotiated in January 1978, the language of which throws
into question the unqualified right of the DCI to withhold material
because of sources-and-methods considerations, but leaves in-
tact the original position on relevance.

5. Our practice, under these provisions, has been to agree
to requested access to material we feel probably irrelevant, if
it is not judged sensitive. When considerations of relevance
and sensitivity combine we have opposed unqualified access. In
the face of the HSCA representatives' assertion of the need to
verify our statements about relevancy, etc., we have tried to
employ the original commitment to the DCI by Mr. Blakey to
not disclose anything shown him personally, when the matter
becomes an issue, letting him review the material personally.
This serves to demonstrate good faith, at the same time that
it has permitted verification by a selected HSCA person.

6. If the HSCA decides to force the present issue, for whatever
purposes, there would be some confusion in outlining just what
the Agency's position is. The agreements can be presented as
compromising the legislated responsibility of the DCI to protect
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. This considera-
tion has led us to follow the practice of tying relevance (preserved
in the original agreement) to sensitivity, avoiding assertion of the
right to protect material on the grounds of sensitivity alone. As
an example we have given extensive access to intelligence sources
and methods as employed in Mexico City, where it was relevant
because it explained CIA coverage of the Oswald visit in September-
October 1963.

7. Discussions with Chairman Stokes, assuming there will
be an opportunity to have such an exchange, should be reasonable
rather than technical. While we believe our grounds sound (the
material at issue is not relevant to the inquiry, and is sensitive) the
arguments in support of it may prove confusing in public controversy.

Distribution:
1 - SA/DDCI
1 - OLC/Subject
1 - OLC/Chrono.

SDBreckinridge:hfs (31 August 1978)
2

 
