74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a : as bine fomerne d piste. by eccge

 

— . one funoned onde Hee Tests

ots FIEHPTT bia Omats [ee

 

 
   

 

 

   

 

 

 

att “Wet Tae = Tome
Soppeafien posed wee as

~ onet frrorner d turden. LIFE 6 TT anata Ld

‘wo heawees bepra Cori etd nenaiad So

 

 

 
74-0000

were. bearing the cryptonym ‘LIFEAT. Later,

6. Ms. Bustos said that when the report on Oswald came
in from Mexico she did the name trace on him. She took action
to notify the Navy, the FBI, and the field. She states that the
station was told to notify the Legal Attache and the three Military
Attaches. In notifying the ''Pentagon" she said that she asked
for a photo of Oswald from his military file which might be used
in his identification against photography coverage in Mexico City.
She said there was no answer from the ''Pentagon."' In response
to our questions she stated that this would mean his military
service, which probably was the Navy as Oswald was a Marine.
She said that she waited for comments and reaction but that there
was no response. By way of explanation she observed that lots
of people were in contact with the Soviet and Cuban Embassies
in Mexico City andno response at that time might not be unnatural.
She cannot recall if there was a follow up.

7, She stated that initially our telephone taps in Mexico City

 

 

 

telephone taps were established (she could not recall the date);
it came to be known as LIENVOY. The LIENVOV LP had ahant

 

 

 

 

 

which Ms. Bustos sees as indicating that

 

there was probably no standdown on the Cuban Embassy so far

as technical reasons are concerned. She felt that the LP case
officer managed the distribution of coverage so that there would

be no duplications in the lines covered. She could not remember

the identity of the person but she said that Win Scott read everything.
Ms. Bustos stated that there was photo surveillance on both the
Soviet and the Cuban Embassies. The Guban- ohoto surveillance:
‘project (LIONION) was.a r

 

 

8. Ms. Bustos said that Ann Goodpasture handled the
material from LIFEAT and she recalled that a person named
Anderson handled LIENVOY. Ms. Goodpasture did the history
of the Mexico Station and would be very familiar with all of it.
As Ms. Bustos did not go to Mexico until 1967 her personal
recollections are a mix of the period commencing when she
arrived PCS and her knowledge from the Headquarters desk.

SEGRET
 

‘104-4 0005-10004

 

y

~ > SEGREI
5 DEC 1876

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Interview with Charlotte Bustos-Videla

1. John Leader, Ted Anderson (O/S) and I met with Ms.
Bustos yesterday to discuss her recollections that might bear
on the Oswald matter.

2. She stated that she has not yet been contacted by Mr.
Kessler. She and her husband have arranged for an unlisted -
telephone and a post office box to protect their privacy. If
contacted she will decline to have any discussions with Mr.
Kessler. Contrary to my understanding she is returning to
Headquarters PCS and will be here for some time.

3. Ms. Bustos stated that the most important person to
whom we can talk is Ann Goodpasture who has retired to Texas.
She stated that Ms. Goodpasture was a case officer in the
station; she ts nD she handled sensitive things for the
COS; and, after the assassination of President Kennedy she
would have been the one to conduct the reviews at the station.
She was involved in the investigations of the Duran aspect of
the matter (we do not know if Ms. Goodpasture is the person
interviewed by the Downing Committee investigators; she does
not fit the description of a secretary).

4. The next person that she mentioned was Milly Rodriguez.
She handled Tasaroff and the Soviet transcribers. Ms, Bustos
feels that Ms. Rodriguez would be more informed on what
happened than M%

 

5. Ms. Bustos stated that she got involved from the Cuban
angle, not from the Soviet point of view. It is her present re-
collection, contrary to what we have been told, that the Cuban
tap was active at the time that Oswald visited Mexico. We dis-
cussed the fact that he called the Soviet Embassy from the Cuban
Embassy and asked if this might explain her recollection that
the Cuban tap was active; she thought not.

SEGRET

 
74-00000

 

 

,

Th _ SEGRET - ma)

9. Ms. Bustos stated that Win Scott retired around 1969
and that the files were purged around 1970. She felt that all
permanent material was sent to Warrenton and would not be
at the station. She said that about 75% of all the paper was
destroyed but that the Oswald file would have been sent to
Washington,

10. Ms. Bustos has no reak recollections now about what
‘she did at the time of the Kennedy death. She recalls only the
Oswald 201-file. Her assumption is that a task force would
have taken over the matter, as was customary of LA Division

. handling special matters which would take it out of the Mexican

Baanch.

ll We agreed to get some information that might help Ms.
Bustos refresh her recollection and agreed on a later contact.

. 4
S. D. Breckinridge
ce: O/S

~3-

SEGBET

 
74-0000

   

 

Pea pene

GR SE Ming

3 fit Cat YO -

 

Kar
Ee LEeS,

     
 
  

: +o” Gheetant Neg roots

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: eee oe

      
