13-00000

 

. * PHONE: STILL POINT,
*353:dlneland) - 24(oughal - 96210 ANTHONY SUMMERS DROMORE,
FAX: AGLISH,
353 (ireland) - 24 (Youghal) - 96467 CAPPOQUIN,
- CO. WATERFORD,
IRELAND.

on

Mr. John F,.Pereira,
Chief, Uistorical Review Group,
Center for Study of Intelligence,

Central Intelligence Agency,

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL

Washington D.C. 20505

& July 1994

 

Dear Mr. Periera,

Thanks for your letter of June 25, regarding the Kennedy
assassination case, and the matter of tape recordings. I was

aware of virtually all the points you raise, since I recently

 

took the trouble to visit Washington to peruse all available

released material on the subject.

It does not, however, resolve the problem. While one mignt
accept that human memory might fail in the case of one person,
or even of two, it is surely astonishing that two former Warren
Commission counsel say firmly for the record that in April

1964 they listened to tapes of Oswald contacts with one or

 

more of the Communist missions, courtesy of the local CIA
station chief, and that - in addition - a former senior station
officer confirms that such tapes were played for thea

precisely as they describe. What should the serious scholar

of the case conclude, that all three of these gentlemen have
hopeless memories or are offering false information? Or could
it be that the written record is wrong? Can we be certain

that the CIA was not holding such tapes in 1°64, and has not
destroyed such tapes since? And can we be certain the CIA

no longer has such tapes in its possession? I look forward

with interest to your reply.

 

Sincerely,
 

Subject: Morley's request

The 10 October 1963 cable (Dir 74830) is a response to the
Station's 9 October 1963 cable (Mexi 6453) which describes
Oswald's contact with the Consul at the Soviet Embassy.

The information on Oswald in the 10 October cable (para. 1 -
3) deals with Oswald citizenship and current status and is
based on State reporting. The cable is not a complete
report on Oswald based on all information available.

The comment in Para. 3 re “latest HDQS information” appears
to relate to citizenship issue, i.e., as of May 1962 State
had confirmed Oswald's US citizenship. The statement is
written in “cablese” and poorly worded, however, I don't
believe it was meant to imply that there was no other

information available on Oswald. . .
Bune siqnresd fy

Karamessines signed as “releasing officer” and,J.C. King was O-5
the’ authentication officer The cable would have been

drafted by another officer, probably someone responding to a
request on Oswald citizenship status.

Background (FYI Only):

The “Pre-Assassination” 201 file as released to NARA had at
least one FBI document dated after May 1962 (DBA 20883 dated
30 August 1962/ received in the Agency 19 September 1962).
There is also a 10 September 1963 FBI document that was
received by the Agency on 19 September 1963. Given the
handling of FBI documents (indexing and microfilming prior
to dissemination), I doubt that this document had reached
the 201 file by 10 October 1963.

There are no May 1962 documents/reports in the Pre-
Assassination 201 File. Since Oswald left the USSR on 4
June 1962, there are numerous State documents dated May 1962
in the “JFK collection”, however, no way to determined when
there were received by the Agency.

The May 1962 “State report” may refer to a phone call to
State or documents that were available but not in the 201
file.

 
25 May 1994

Memorandum for the Record

SUBJECT: Telephone Call from Anthony Summers re Oswald in

Mexico City

1. Summers, author of Conspiracy, called long-distance

from Ireland. After expressing pleasure in the amount and
historic value of the JFK materials released by the Agency,
he said that the specific reason for his call was a
remaining ambiguity about the tapes of Oswald's calls to the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

2. The Agency, he said, told investigators that the

tapes had been e¢ased. Summers said that he understood
erasure as a normal procedure, with no sinister overtones.
However, when he talked with former Warren Commission
assistant counsels William Coleman and David Slawson, who
visited the Mexico City Station in April 1964, they told him

that
that
said
name
that

trip

they heard the tapes while in the Station and noted
they were of relatively poor quality. Also, Summers
that a former Agency employee with whom he spoke (whose
he said he could furnish, but not over the phone) said
he had heard the tapes.

3. Considering the 1964 date of the Slawson/Coleman
and what Summers stated was the high credibility of the

individuals who said they heard the tapes, Summers asked if
our review had turned up the tapes or any documentation
reflecting anything other than standard erasure procedure

that

could explain the apparent conflict between the timing

of the Headquarters instruction to the field after the
assassination not to destroy any file material, the date of
the Slawson/Coleman visit and theabsence of the tapes from
the file.

4. I said that, to my knowledge, no one here had found

the tapes nor had they encountered anything that would
affect the conclusion that the tapes had been routinely
erased. I said that no one reviewer here saw every document
in the many archival boxes, but that had someone found
anything to conflict with the previous testimony, it would

have

surfaced. °

5. I got the impression that, in addition to continuing

to review the material as it is released to NARA, Summers
may seek a formal response to the question he asked me.
I hope that this information helps clarify the events
surrounding the tapes. All of the documents quoted are

available in the National Archives.

Yours truly,

,) le wa Chavet

ohn F. Pereira
Historical Review Group

 
 
  
 
13-00000

 

Center for the Study of Intelligence

28 June 1994

Mr. Anthony Summers
Still Point

Dromore

Aglish, Cappoquin
Co. Waterford
Ireland

N

Dear Mr. Summers:

This is in response to your letter of 25 May 1994 to
David Gries regarding the possible existence of tape
recordings of Oswald's conversations with the Cuban and
Soviet embassies in Mexico City until at least April 1964.
As evidence of this possibility you cite FBI Director
Hoover's statement the day after the assassination that his
agents had listened to the tapes. You also state that
Messrs. Coleman and Slawson recalled that Winston Scott
arranged for them to listen to a tape recording of Oswald's
conversations during their visit to Mexico City in April
1964 and that a senior CIA officer provided the tape to
them.

In its review of CIA files on Oswald and the’
assassination of President Kennedy, the CIA Historical
Review Group (HRG) found no tape recordings of Oswald's
conversations with the Soviet or Cuban embassies. We did
find transcriptions of such conversations and a number of
documents stating that the tapes themselves had been
routinely erased prior to the assassination. Nor has any
tape been found in the FBI files. '

The inconsistency. you point out flows from a number of
misstatements and errors made in documents immediately after
the assassination. While these were corrected, the original
errors continue to raise questions regarding the tapes. The
following excerpts illustrate this point:

1. FBI Dallas To FBI HQ, 23 November 1963: “Inasmuch
as the Dallas Agents who listened to the tape of
conversation allegedly of Oswald from the Cuban Embassy to
the Russian Embassy in Mexico and examined the photographs

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505
(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343
of the visitor and were of the opinion that neither the tape
nor the photograph pertained to Oswald,..."

2. PBI Director to the President, 23 November 1963:
"Special Agents of this Bureau... have observed photographs
of the individual referred to above and have listened to a
recording of his voice. These Special Agents are of the
opinion that the above-referred to individual was not Lee
Harvey Oswald."

3. FBI SAC, Dallas, 23 November 1963 Cable to FBI
Director: " It should be noted that the actual tape from
which this transcript [of Oswald's call] was made has been
erased.” -

4. Legal Attaché (FBI), Mexico City, Cable to FBI
Headquarters, 25 November 1963: “Tapes obtained by CIA...
here erased after two weeks, following making of typewritten
transcripts of contents of these tapes. There appears to be
some confusion in that no tapes were taken to Dallas but
only typewritten transcripts supplied by CIA, the tapes not
being available because they had been erased."

5. FBI Memorandum to U:S. Senate Select Committee, 27
February 1976: “Delivered herewith is material responsive
to that letter pertaining to a voice recording referred to
on page five of an FBI report to the President of the United
States dated November 23, 1963. As was discussed... on
February 24, 1976, the recording in question was never in
the possession of the FBI and was not listened to by FBI
Agents."

With respect to Coleman's and Slawson's recollections,
the CIA file contains a number of internal Warren Commission
documents on their trip to Mexico City. In a report on
their visit, they state that in their meeting with Scott,
they were shown original transcripts and translations of
Oswald's telephone conversations. In a subsequent meeting
with Scott and his deputy, arrangements were made for them
to go through all the transcripts to use them as a basis for
reconstructing Oswald's Mexico City activities concerning
the two embassies. Slawson then spent considerable time
reviewing and taking notes from the transcripts. None of
these records mentions the existence of tapes of Oswald's
calls or “listening to taped conversations."

The CIA/HRG review did turn up tapes of Oswald's radio
debate in New Orleans and of a telephone conversation on
26 November between Cuban President Dorticos and Cuban
Ambassador to Mexico Hernandez Armas. Scott discussed the
latter tape with Coleman and Slawson, noting that the
connection between the two speakers was very bad, that the
tape was in CIA Headquarters and, that the Warren Commission
might want to have it re-translated.
 

SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request

all their questions aren't answered. Considering that they
are trying to do serious research on the Kennedy
assassination, I think any effort on our part to help them
would be seen as a gesture of good will.

Ae

Pete# Earnest

Attachment:
As stated

_.__.__ Agree to having a specialist talk to them on background
about the Nosenko information if an appropriate person is
available.

__..___No, do not want anyone from the DO talking about the
Nosenko information.
104-10337-10008

 

 

11 March 1993

’

 
 
    
 

NOTE FOR: Deput: irector for Operations

 

FROM: eter Earnest
“ Chief, Media Relations
SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency Ale
Specialist on the Kennedy Assassination Vaz . ‘fH

The WASHINGTON POST is preparing a series of articles on a
the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Kennedy .
assassination.

With the help of CIC, we recently arranged for George
Lardner and Walter Pincus of the WASHINGTON POST to interview a
former KGB officer Yuri Nosenko about his knowledge of Lee
Harvey Oswald during the time Oswald lived in the Soviet
Union. To ensure that Nosenko's resettlement identity and
location would remain protected, I made the arrangements for
Nosenko to come to Washington for the interview.

The POST reimbursed Nosenko for expenses and paid hima
$250 consulting fee. The interview was done on Wednesday,
3 March, at the POST offices downtown. I did not remain for
it. Lardner and Pincus also hosted a lunch for Nosenko which
was attended by Ben Bradlee. Lardner and Pincus were very
pleased with their session with Nosenko and appreciative of

‘our making it possible. I also spoke afterwards with Nosenko

who said he was satisfied with how the interview was
conducted and with the financial arrangements.

Shortly after the interview, Lardner faxed me a list of
the questions that he and Pincus had prepared for themselves
to use in checking out Nosenko's information. They asked if
there was anyone at the Agency they could talk to about the
individuals named. I told them that developing information
in response to:their questions would probably take a good
deal of research arid.that I doubted the Agency would be able
to take on such a task at this time for the POST. However, I
said I would take it up with the appropriate offices.

Although I told the POST that I do not believe anyone
would be willing to undertake research on their questions,
I'm wondering if there is anyone around who might be
knowledgeable of Nosenko's information who would be willing
to talk with Lardner and Pincus on background based on
his/her existing knowledge. I think Lardner and Pincus would
be grateful for making such a person available even if

 
 

' SUBJECT:

WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency

specialist in the Kennedy Assassination

DCI/PAI/Earnest :ncbx37758 (11 March 1993)

Distribution:

Original

bt bel ed et fat fed Bt pe

Addressee

BO Registry
D/PAL :
D/DO/CIC
C/DO/NROC
C/DO/CE

C/CSTI
C/History Staff
13-00000 .

Names of Russians we should try to track down about Lee Harvey Oswald, Yuri Nosenko and the
asszasination:

JeK
1. General Oleg M. Gribanor, head ofthe Second Chicf Directorate of the KGB in the early 1960s
where Nosenko saya he worked, primarily against American tourists, as deputy chief of the Seventh
Ne described himself favored by G:
structed him, after the JFK assassination, to retrieve the Oswald file from the Minsk KGB right

away.

2 Aru eatD Geputy chief of the Second Chief Directorate or one of its departments, st
time assassination, Nosenko said when the file arrived from Minski, he and Koralenko were
going over the all-important first volume—and finding KGB had nothing to do with Oswald—when a
arent from the Finxt Department came in and picked it up on Gribanov’s orders, to review it

write 3

3. The officer who picked it up was Col. Matveer, ty chief{l think) of Ficst(or American) De-
partment. Second Chief Directrete Uatare fate

A ders fade eng Department was Col. Sergei M. Fedosevev or Fedoseey and presumably he
would have hed a hand in or supervised preparation of the “a cavka” or summary.

§. Gribanov and more than 40 other KGB officers were ki out because of Nosenko's defection,
scconting to Noseako. That right? Wher faypered ?

id Rastrusin. Was in 1959 a senioe cave officer in KGB responsible for Intourist mat.
Was Rastrusin who told him about Oswald and how he wanted to stay in

_ Nose ge at ers Rs said. Oswald “docsn’t present interest” to KGB and Noeenko

checked out out with his superiors. Word came back not to bother with Oswald. Nosenko was told to tell
Rastrusin to tell Intourist to deal with him.

7. Rastrusin returned next next day and said we got a roblem. Oswald tried to kill self, etc. KGB
washed hands of him, decided to let Intourist deal him. Intourist then part of Ministry of For-

eign Trade. Nosanko said he believes question of what to do with Oswald was run to top of that min-
istry and beyond, to Khruschev or one of his deputies. In any case, decision was made to let Oswald
sty in Minsk. Bot Nosenko KGB.

ple pepe ere i ont

on Coan nd ent bane HGH there get Hid of Osvrak etc., etc.
10. Col. Gruntey, was chief of the KGB department in Minsk that was responsible for foreigners

11.0 T , one of three KGB officers stationed in Mexico City who reportedly inter-
rogatad or dealt on kis visit to Embassy there. Now living in Moscow area.
Other two Mexico City officers, both still alive in Russia: tikov and Pavel Yatzkov.
