 

 

 

 
   
    

 

e

aed  eigned the statement and Nikolai -took.4t from him,

 

 

  

 

 

 

 
 

 

* i
- b
SECRET oo |
Re: | 7 oe : z
' Congresaman Carl Henshaw cf California, tated that these 4
j Hames have previously been furnished by him to the Soviets. 8

In addition t> these nanesl furnished Nikolai names of
_| Congressman Page, Republican, lLllinois; Bernard Davis, a
e| Publigher in New York City and Jack Haley, an Administrator
, for the House ard Senate whose office its in the Capitol Building.

 

 

felt that

“CHESS additional names to Nixclat, Niliclat teld knat the

Sovieta relicve

 

al he had
felt that
reat against him

The meeting with Nikclai ended between 6:00 and 6:30
p.m, eds driven back to the border between East and
in.

West Ber

Prior to leaving for East Berlin on the morning of

the next day
but then reject
by Nikolai, On

went to East Berlin and was driven to the eame apartment where

he arrived about 12:00 noon. Nimolai again stressed the mutual
trust angie, pointing out that the Soviets had shown their truat
by their payments to him in the past even though very little of

the informatio

 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
   

 

 

 

in créer to src4 mutual trust he had to furnish 7 '

 

 

they can ‘rupt hi

m. (> Jnoted that all the
written for Nia

lai was taxen by Nixolai and -
this could te used in tne Suture as a blackmail.

 

 

considered taking some tranquilizer pilis -
this because he felt their effect might te noticed
Monday morning, January 23, 1961, jagain

 

 

 

 

 

had obtained was of value to thom. Nikolai

 

 

dictated and wrote down that he could show mutual truet
by doing constructive work for the Soviets with the unde
‘that he would be well paid for.the information he got and :
jagreed that he would extend hia efforts dince the Sovis -
shown their mutual trust by their past payments to. hin. ’

  
  
 
  

 

 

 

"op the th

“. >: next-meeting would be at 6:00 p.m. on May 16, 1961 at the -
° - TT

believed that it was either on the second day.”-

 

 
 

that Nikolai gave him instructions that theige

  

   

a Te

abbas va nig 2 tobe gee
[ina t02i0-40128]

 

       
    

So .- - o gehhes * Dost: wor, ‘ppeQLuRe -.

7 _ re . a de, oer oboe

* "+ Res. : poe ekined See 4

we ; ’ Wikolal stated that ne meetings would “wo held ta

a . f the United States in the foreseeable future because the Sovicts”
Gid not desire to have any trouble with the new Aduinistration.

All meetings would be in Fast Berlin since the ©

_ Yheke were leso there than in the United States, Nikolai also
pointed out that there is little risk for the Soviets, that it
is easy for to enter and leave Rast Berlin and thet there

is less chance o sounter-intelligence organisations discovering
their relationship. to \

_Nikolal stats < aleo thet”. & was becter to have. 8A
. + personal Contact between himself and Jeaving Gut dresi-
‘+. amd meetinge with a principsal in a fdr ecuntry, Mittolad —
felt that parsonal meetings between the tvo would insures @
better operation, ‘

 

 

 

 

    
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
    
  

 

 

 

 

. Nikolai atated to We éon't have mang eexptions -
° working like thia where a person works cn a business baste ,
. You will furnisn information in exchangs for money, If roe °°
want to accept the ideslogy of Communi er, Clays if not, as al

; ng the interrogation on this any Rikelas gait»
: Baked @ motivation for working with the Jovieto end: '
“ fold him ag he had on the first day. eh

 

 

7) During the latter cart of the ir nterrogation marotes
_ etreseed that there must be mutual trust, angieating thet. .

could show his satus) trust by proqueing 5 saformstica fax,

a, the Boviete, fo

a lad then requested
: of tactain the United pes 4
oO January 27, 1952 could not Fecal? the names ha hed
Pa : furnished but during io dew on January 30, 1961 he ateted .2
that he furnished Nikolai tne namea of Gary Oriffin, a Yale ;
Voivereity professor who hed been a government songultant, Jenn
- Gad: » who wag @ security officer of the United States avy
: Radio ise Teageoone Project, and Ginger firmons, Private eecretary: ta

. a 6. My the, Foie;
ee Load, he Piety
ae - oi, SSCRER: - fie dated ‘ape és

 

 

 

    
     

 

 

 
 
     

     
      

     

 

co gph tet aigh Aaa N soatsT bet gfe RIE ARUN

   
