74-0000

3. Additional investigation which can be performed includes
coverage at DeKalb and Sterling, T1linois to cover the Subject's.
residences in those camunities prior to 1940 and for the brief
period during 1945, during which he was employed in Sterling,
Tllinois. In addition,name checks and RI-K checks will be brought
up to date on the Subject and additional RI-K checks will be scheduled
on the Subject's spouse and her relatives who are apparently residing
in Costa Rica.

h. In a memorandum dated 8 March 1957 from Chief, WH Division,
it was stated that the Subject is currently assigned to Cuba where
he is utilized as Principal Agent on Project AY C O\ This Pro-
ject is an FI operation designed to provide information on political
activities (including Communist) in University circles in Havana,
Cuba. Subject's activities in connection with this Project have been

.concerned with Coumunist Party penetration and his current work in-

volves the handling of a net of agents providing coverage of Communist,
leftist, revolutionary and other political activities of Havana and
the student yout!, circles in general in Cuba. Subject's use under.

the requested covert security approval will be the same as in the Past
according to Mr. Hugh MacCAULZY, WH/3.

5S. WH Division in its memorandum of 8 March 1957 was highly
laudatory in its evaluanesof the Subject and consider him to be an
outstanding employee with strong overall qualifications. It was
further pointed out that the Subject's spouse, a Costa Rican citizen,
has expressed a desire to acquire United States citizenship and she
Plans to accompany her husband to the United States for this purpose
in the near future.

6. The reason for elevating the Subject to career agent status
is to reward him with more permanent status dndgreater benefits for
the outstanding service which he has performed in the past. The Sub-

"ject plans to be in Washingtm, D. C. at the end of March and it: 4s

desired to assign him to a contract as a career agent at that time.
—,

7- In view of the ahsence of any derogatory information con-
cerning the Subject, plus the fact that he is a native born United
States citizen and taking into account his past record of outstanding
service as a contract agent, it is felt that a provisional covert
security approval could be issued at this time to enable the Subject's
use a8 a career agent. The provisional covert security approval would
be issued with the understanding that additional investigation was
being performed and that a final decision regarding the issuance of _
a full covert security approval would depend on the results of said
investigation. The only area wherein Subject failed to meet staff
standards is in the fact that his wife and her relatives are citizens

SEER
 

 

[toe torttoneg

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

ae ae | SANITIZED
a a

22 March 1957

MEMORANDUM FCR : Chief, Security Support Division

FROM : Chief, Investigations Branch
SUBJECT : C-25507

#112569
GISTs

The Sub ject) a Contract Agent, is now being camsidered for
career agent status and a provisfonal covert security approval
has been requested on an expedite basis to enable the Subject to.
sign a contract as a career agent when he comes to the United
States in. the latter part of March. Subject meats staff stan-
dards with the exception that his wife is a Costa Rican citizen.
Recommend issuance of provisional covert security approval with
full covert security approval to follow upon completion of ad-
ditional investigation.

DETAILS :

1. The Subject is a native born United States citizen, who
resided in Illinois from the date of his birth in 1922 to 190 when
he entered the United States Army. He served overseas with the Army
and later the Air Force until his discharge in 1945. After his dis-
charge he worked for a brief period in Sterling, Illinois until
December 1945, at which time he moved to the Panama Canal Zone. He
has remained outside the United States from 195 to the present time _ Ue
and from 1946 to 199 served a period of re-inlistment in the Air kes ney

Farce.
pleats oy

ee Be.

 
    

DOSNES

   
   
 
  
 
   
 

2. According to information supplied by WH Division, Subject
became a Contract Agent in June 1949 and has served continuously in
bifat capacity up to the present time. Subject's security file re-
flects that. he was processed for an operational clearance in July
1954 for use as an agent under Project AM ol “linvestigation
at that time consisted of RI-K checks on the Subject which produced
Rnothing derogatory and National Agency Name Checks on the Subject
which were likewise non derogatory.

  

SSD Fites
 

 

is
S

t

Lad

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: ins . ied aw = 25% lapel
Resommend issurnce ef provisional covtrt security arproval f
arg caroper the enclese?
aD oe i

    

 

 
