13-00000

“—N

: would receive her visa. right. now, or permission, ‘from the: ‘Soviet

SECRET

for the Soviet Union, and nov he (the Soviet) does not know what to ;

do with him (the American), because they have to wait for an answer’

_ from Washi ngton .

’ Silvia PURAN agrees ‘the same problem exists with the Cubans,
that. the problem with him (the Anerican) is that he does not know
anyone in Cuba. and therefore if that is true it will be difficult
for him to get a Visa for cuba, because he was thinking of proces
sing his. visa (for the Soviet Union), because he knew ait would |
require waiting a Tong time for his visa to the Soviet Union while. .

in Cuba, and fran there go to the Soviet Union. . The. Soviet said .

the thing is that if his wife right now were in Washington ‘she _

Union, to return to her country, ‘she is going to receive. her visa Sys i

Washington but having this visa, she could communicate to any place

_ this. permission, for example here or any place she could receive it

(visa or permission), but right now they do not have them. :
si Ivta ‘DURAN says certainly. and they cannot give a letter either : ;

because they do not know if the visa will be approved. ‘The Soviet

_ Says he cannot give. a Vetter” or recommendation ‘either because he

. does not know him (the American) and asks to be excused ‘for

bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is all right and many thanks .

c. 28 September 1963 (Saturday) , 1151 hours Mexico City time.

Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET

1

|
a
|
|
7

 

a nee ee ep ee ee
13-00000

asks the American in English what does he want? The American says

American says I was just now at your Embassy and ‘they: took ny

 

SCCRET

Soviet. She says that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North
American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait a
minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone--and comments in
Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take the
number. down--Silvia DURAN then says the: American citizert is going
to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The Anerican first speaks
Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They conti nue tn English. |
The Ameri can talks’ broken Russian and says I was in your Enbassy and

spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and

Please speak Russi an. The Soviet Says what else do you want? The : ts

address. The Soviet says I know that. The Anerican, in hardy
recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I went to the. i”

“Cuban Embassy to ask them for ny address, because they have ft.
“The. Soviet. says: why don’ t you. come again and leave your: address. oo .

with us; it ‘is not far from the Cuban. Embassy. The American. says : ae

ri be there * right away.

L October 1963 (Tuesday), 1031 hours Mexico city t tine.

An unknown: male: (American) cals ‘the Soviet Embassy, ‘the Military
Attaché's number , 15-69-87, and ‘says to an unidentified Soviet
respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and talked to your

Consul. They said that they would send a telegram to Washington,
10

SECRET

 

. sg . : :
Fn nr a pr a on tn ec
 

SECRET (

Silvia DURAN explains the same thing to him. This man says to
leave a name and telephone number and says he will call back.
Silvi a DURAN gives: the telephone 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate).

She also takes advantage of the, conversation and states she has

moved:-and wants to advise the Soviet Embassy of her change of .
- address so ‘that she can receive the Sovi et Embassy’s Bulletin.

The man: says to cal KOU KHARENKO to give her new address » then he ,
. asks the name of the Consul or Cultural Attache. st Ivia DURAN says :
. the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number is S26. _ - ,
Then man | Says thanks. a

 

oo Se ptember 1963 _ Frida 1626 hours Mexico City time. .

An unidentified mate, a soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks |

‘Silvia DURAN if the American had been there. ‘Silvia DURAN ‘says he i .
is there now. ‘The Soviet says the American showed papers fron the
‘Consulate in Washington, that he wants to go to the Soviet’ ‘Unton

and -be there for a long time with his wife, who is Russian, but ~

‘the answer has not come from Washington in respect to this problem,

and according to this procedure it takes four or five months, but

without having permission from the Soviet Union they should ask, or

better said, they cannot issue a visa there without asking Washing-

ton. However, according to this. man, he showed a letter indicating |

he was a member of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the

Cubans said that they cannot issue a visa without his having a visa

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

 

SECRET

- Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

 

14. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final ‘precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in-the chain of, evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the
totality of CIA Mexico 's coverage” of OSWALD" s activi ty as of the after

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to ‘be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) \ voice intercepts as’ follows:

oa, a September 1963 (eridm), 1605 hours Hexico city t time. 7

Si ia DURAN , a Mexican national, a Tocal “ employee. of the Cuban’
Embassy, Consular section,. a receptionist, speaks with an unknown °
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man “that the -

American citizen was there, pre one who wants a visa for Cuba. ‘on 7 .

his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whom he was

talking there because she (si ia .DURAN). had sent him to the Soviet
; Embassy. sayi ng that if they. accepted ‘him and gave hin a visa, then

   

: ‘the 4 cul ns” (Enbassy) would. also give him a visa without, further .

- paper: : rks only advising Inni gration in Cuba. ¢ The American, she

 

° says, wants to know with wham he had talked there because he says .

 

  

/ he was: old. there would be n ‘problen. The man in the Soviet.

. _Enbass says: to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

 

SECRET

 
13-00000

   

SS ECREI

"JO: At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina-
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, firm *
that there was . no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his
Hexico trip or stay in Mexico city. Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request: on 15 October, the Mexi co Station had na photo of OSWALD
‘in its - ‘records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters—vbich did not

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

; 1. Stethg Enis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
&: by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter--
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to ‘the oe
interested members .of the intelligence community (as an exHarine OSWALD .
was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement . and potenttatly /
of interest to the. Department of. State)--turned up matches based on .
content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September “1963. "These
matches were reported to Headquarters, on 23 November 1963. Analysis -
based ‘on voice. comparison (except for what could be recalled by the © ,
monitor--and. this was: not ‘an. insignificant element because of the -
menorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the.

tapes, in accordance with the norma practice, had been erased and re-used.

aN
.

SECRET
13-00000

‘yapid and accelerated basis in four or five day “peaks.” One of ‘the

 

SEUREI

“ 42" It must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic
coverage was not (and norma Ty is not) processed in "veal time." The
means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes any thi ng
but the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor to be of more than
ordinary interest and , therefore, noted in summary Togs . Full texts of
selected items Fequi re consultatic on ‘of the tape and either a full: tran—
scription or full transTati on or both. Photo coverage tends to becone

available in quantity. lots which requires scanning and selection on cs .

"triggers" that: normal ly ‘operates to focus and. accelerate more ‘speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw ‘intelligence is the menticn of
a name. This was precisely what otcurred in the second of ‘tro conversa—

tions on 1 October. with the Soviet. ‘Embassy, during which ‘the speaker ‘said =

he. was “Lee OSWALD." ‘It was. this information reported by the Station to
Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on & October 1963.

"43. The Mexico Station did. one more thing in-its 8 October report .

on Lee OSWALD based on. its 1 ‘October voice intercepts: - it coupled ‘the.
data with. descriptive information.it had acquired fron a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph ‘of a male individual, apparently an
Anerican, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 1 October. .
The Station reported this detail? on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced fron
the photo was. in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

‘SECRET

ooo pe eee ee cae wa ne ee ee
13-00000

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day, ©

 

eCRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by the

CIA and #iéxian security authoriti@stagainst the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies in Mexico City.

3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop information :

on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the “photograph were

made avai lable by CIA's Mexi co Station Chief on the afternoon of

asserted ly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by

an FBI representative by a special Flight carried out by the U. S. Naval

‘Attaché to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoting / ,

investigati on: One photograph ,: ‘cropped by the FBI, was shown to.
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey. OSWALD’ s nother). in Dattas: on the .
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. num. _

. 4, The. Warren Commissic on's report describes the sequence of events.

at pp. 364-365 ‘and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Margueri te OSWALD ‘s allegati on that she had been ‘shown’ a cropped _
photo of Jack RUBY the day before. he murdered her son. (A further

complication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that

when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance .

; 4 oo,
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner. )

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET

 

. . . . a oboe : i .
or cnc a ene een oneal ee eee mene neces poetry eee ene
104-10429-10247

_ data relative to the Subject. “The purpose « of this survey is to permite a aa

a.

Pm

 

     

SECRET

2 May 1975

ry

SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
Canmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David WS Belin to Mr. E. . Harry Knache,
15 Peri] 1975 (Attachment A)

fd

J.- Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to

reconsider full disclosure at this time of the ci reumstances. and factual

realistic evaluation of the Suggestion. .

Background.

2. This: ‘examinatton and. summery of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by: ‘the Presi dent's Commission on the Assassination : -

of President - Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) ‘and

introduced into evidence. as Odum Exhibit No. i! The photograph

(together with: others of the same individual) originated fron a highty

} See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 691.

SECRET
  

SECRET.

© 4

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been

nurtured by the media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina- |
tion. The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to
preoccupy "specialists" and has becone the centerpiece oF. another —
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "Framed" by the use of a .
double in his activity in Mexico City.? :

*

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay ia o

: Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of |
2 October 1963, at least one set ‘of photographs of the unidentified tan eh

 

originated. during OSHALD's stay there. ~ It is important, ‘therefore, to: 7 se

an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by

the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with '

the informati on it. developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with . - a

Headquarters ‘a action on that i nformation.

> Fron att credibe evidence known to. this time (none, incidentally, - .

added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full “days and two (2) Partial days--
about 116 hours in all-in Mexico: city from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not.

Oswald” by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New fort Review

of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment

 
13-00000

 

SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
sma] commercial. traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos”-~the

Hotel Connerci o--wheré he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and
detailed interviews and interrogati on by the Mexican authorities and

the FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollection of |

211 hotel personnel he left early, and returned late each day of his stay.

, 8. Assuming, and ‘allowing. for the fact of jate arrival and early.

; departure, that he slept one-thi rd of the time of his stay (38 or 39°

hours), there remain some 78 hours. of activity to be accounted for. | ,
Overall, CIA's. informati on can account ‘solely for very brief periods .
during 27, 2B September ‘and 1 October. AN coverage by CIA during the .
entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (ving: ~

agent) coverage ei ther uni lateral or From. Mexican: aison: -

9.. It should be noted that OSWALD wes in no sense "under investi-

gation." Hone of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
, return to the U. Se, 1959. - 1962, were known to Hexico Station fi Tes
‘before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were -

forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of

8 October whi ch had forwarded, on a routi ne basis, what appeared to be

(a contact ‘by an American for a visa to Cuba‘in transit to the USSR. This

was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information ‘on
1 October, which was the First and only occasion in which OSMALD

identified himself (partial ly) by true naze.

SECRET

de er a a es i tne ne nn atin areata
