74-00000

investigation, subject, of course, to considerations of sensitivity.
Until your subpoena, we were unaware that there was a problem |
different from any number of daily working problems encountered

in this inquiry. In fact, as noted, on two of the issues addressed by
the subpoena your representatives already had reviewed available
material. Subsequent to that, the rather detailed exchanges between .
your representatives and mine had appeared to have been entered into
in good faith, and we had proceeded accordingly.

. I trust that we will have the opportunity to discuss this candidly
rather than under the conditions resulting from the subpoenas voted

by your Committee. Please let me know when you return to Washington
so we can discuss further how we might handle the matter.

Yours sincerel,;

_ STANSFIELD TYRNER

 

cc: Honorable Richardson Preyer
Honorable Samuel L. Devine

Distribution:
Original - Addressee |

- DDA
- Mr. Shepanek
- SA/DDCI
- OLC Subj
1 - OLC Chrono
OLC/SDBreckinridge:baa (24 Aug 78)

Pett et feet fet el ed ed ed
1
3
 

 

foe-ioiartoaeg]

LUNCH TAL is ow,

 

ER 7&-2313/2

 

OLC 78-3916
25 Aug 078

HSC

Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman
Select Committee on Assassination
House of Representatives | : .
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

Subsequent to our telephone conversation on 16 August, at _
which time you informed me that subpoenas had been voted by the
Committee for four items of information, the matter has been the
subject of exchanges between your representatives and mine. I
assume that your staff has now made you aware that one of the items
had been reviewed by one of your staff representatives the morning
of the day before you told me the subpoena was voted. Another was
for a memorandum that cannot be located, apparently missing from
a file that previously had been reviewed by your representatives. I
assume these do not pose a question. The other two items, the subject
of this letter, appear to have developed into a different problem.

One of these two remaining items dealg with a history of the
Mexico City Station, covering the period ito 1969. That history
contains only a few pages of reference to the short visit of Lee Harvey
Oswald to Mexico City, and to related subsequent events. These
pertinent pages have been reviewed by your representatives. Other
than these few references the balance of the histor i
operational and management developments
subject matter not related in any way to the objectives of your inquiry.
In its entirety it constitutes a highly sensitive collection of operational
and organizational information, involving intelligence sources and
methods, that should receive the most restricted handling.

 

Clascitied by 13190
Exempt from general
eeclassificatian echedute ef E.0, 11557
exemplion ectegery $303, @D (33
\ Autoneticatty declassified on
Date Loposaibls te Determine

CONFIGENTHAL 2o3¥2
