 

Se

    

 

treingd a$ acént,. raci-, cd

     

     

    
 

fate Davasy acquis ‘handli

Sante Tors; Zone Ls sexico, UF. foturn ‘adiredsos invented 80 .as not traceable. SL aS

Agents in Cuban for intel or ¢/w training ¢ on departure receive 2 ‘sasscorts, ons,
_ ~ Cuban to traves to frame, one for tetuen “fron rracue’ to om country. Agent loft
Cuba once using oun passp< rts because not tire for DCI to set then passzorts with

proper cachets. ihea passport for travel ‘issued, Dei staips in. ack cachet such.

 

as fron Urly Airport with date to correspc: “to ‘poricd when acont was in Cubase. .

 

DGI chooses countries fur cachet use on basis whether. man of agent nationality”
vos , Would have fo have a visa tor the co. trys, Most Latins ean go to France without
a visa, so France is usefal pecause no duplication or visa Sorging meded, only
cacket for orly arrival. This shows apsarently persén was traveling in sarepe while
actuall. being trained in Ciba. : : oe
Caban passports witn fals2 nanes have 5 digits, starpcd, hence recocnizable. Is uses ;

tse hane inp passport. fase, , for. that trip only.

 

stamp with just 5 aig

 

Acent in trng assignea parnanent eseadonyr, which he would use again on a return

to Cuba. «hen Dit started, it scnetines assimed a trng pserav, another pseudo

for second trir to Suta, but it caused complications because of separate files,

so trng pseudo was 7:é9 cerrancnte s
' . Celicio DisARINTO jontales -oreano, Nicar, 13 acsent, now in sicar, has accer0 ad~

2T

fe . oS — ath : 1 < Pa
@ress isabel RODRIG. =, cidtacoras dé, Altos, Colonia “arvarte, Lexico, DS;
~

    

letter fron aceoue address iniled te Cuban is
ICAy requests for vaccination indicate 13 interest; non Is types wo: d me to .oiice
Gable simed Pablo inizcates it fron DIT Hose

s Enlogio, 19 enief in -ayteo Alvredo MERApAL to 16 Aor oh. .

  

fAused « -arcos out sill sreoct

 
Venez. Sove a radion only’ for even ENCys “such as attucie ‘on Cubae fiorrauty use. Lite .

It an ‘agent is. to be sent to Latin anoriea, Pinstre, Valdes, and bide wad dtoeiss,

it; with ridel's consent ordérs would be izsued and Pp Ssports Loouod. agent to 9

 

on . _ ort = t° da is wre or les SS permnent ‘assionment under diplo covere tor TOxr trips’
to . ‘ “Like A-ls he sets a passsort ina fabce nara. :
: For trips to Socialist countries, travel laid on with volan erbassy theres in
CoRR there 4a a Co4 IS officer in tie Cubon emassy who deciaus wether visa | t
So os : : will be opanted. Yaisified Guban passports (in faise nary) plus legit passports
a oe : of Latin Arerican countries, cedulas issued to° trainees who cam to Cuban for |”.
. gfe tenes Host trainees core to Guha ostensibly fer -/w trng and ;9 back to oo
exvort the revolution at hone wdle bein; traircd in Guba, students are cased ,
by DIT desk officers and those good for io use separated and trained ror intell ‘ :
siesions without knowled“e of other studints or Cr of tielr own country. : .
sexican passport secured thra CP Salvador contact, sant to bula to be used for
sonore who aia not have does or wanted ancuher nationality.
Financial report cr idcaramia FL.
seo in -exicot 2 Suats, one was advanced +120 tort to Suat
2 sonduran
2 banaran
3.2alvador, 2 nore in salvador
3 «wxieo, one oF contact tSuricio de la SELVA, 2 sicaracuanse
1 ‘Meas agent in sxba - .
2 oR ar: mts in prison in vanto ~o1ingo
L daitian in Gba
Tall staff, Julio UvAo. Uasyies 6 Sercie

py : oe
ip : . . Yor Sosa, Honauran, Stel ably now in Costa sicar 4-1 toanks ne was de erted from
   
          
  

wan aid enoild be ca 625,0000

here will ‘they ty tm aria? -

3 tanpeds .

 

 

“Ad had 150 Sale pasos ‘reeva’ ab” 3 Prez sico for ohlvaideran leaving “Cubae he gate

  

doltars and aaiv pesos. Hanuel vsca had ‘Mear- desk before going: “to Hoxie oe °
. FLL. fidear finance doc explains nisuse or noney ‘riven CULRAERO to buy arn e Funds”

care from ‘Dar, sent > fron Cuba in suiteaso ait t by diplo pouch.

 

   

     

 

Lie

o
s
u
