 

 

 

L REWEW
RELEA PROG
we “he se I FULL 19 995 Re

had travelled on a Mexican Tourist Card in lieu of passport.

9. On 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, [vo get the same
technical informstion which we ao na who had noticed the name of
Lee OSWALD in it, arrested Silvia DURAN and her husband and interrogated
them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee
OSWALD had professed to be a Commmist and an admirer of Castro. She
and her husband are being held incommunicado and their arrest will
not be made known, for the time being.

10. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico
and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV,
since the assassination of President Kemedy, by both technical and
physical surveillance, shows nothing unusual.

ll. Mexican President Lopez Mateos is aware of this cased and
of | He will doubtless support any
further police action which is necessary.

 

 

 

 
  

2h November 1963.
nee

    

1. Our first information on OSWALD came from a technical
operation in Mexico City and was cabled in on 9 October 1963.
revealed that on 1 October 1963 Lee OSWALD had been in touch there
with Soviet Consul Valery KOSTIKOV about a telegram which the

Soviet Embassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Enbassy in
The deta showed that OSWALD had also been at the Soviet

Traces showed OSWALD was a former U. S.

Tt

 

Washington.
Embassy on 28 September.
defector to the USSR and on 10 October CIA Headquarters notified the

FBI, State and the Navy (OSWALD had been a Marine). Our Mexico Station

was told to pass its information on OSWALD to the Mexico City offices

 

of the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Eubassy.
Since our Agency is not supposed to investigate U. S. citizens abroad

without special request, we did nothing further on the case.
After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November,

 

2.
Mexico Station, which immediately recalled its earlier report on OSWALD

and cabled us about it, began researching all its files and records for
reports which might relate to him. It turned up pictures of a man
- believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuban Embassies on

various days in October, including 1 October, but when same of these
pictures were sent to the FBI in Dallas they proved to be someone other

Document Number 130-592,
APR 1976

for FOIA Review on

CLASSIFICATIQN REVIEW
4 MAY 1976
CONDUCTED OD

2b Nov 63
DO1\~ BBY AAS

 

€_-_IMPDET cL BY OIZLOY

 
an 9 Unt

 

“et ‘gncuissiries | Ma CO CONF) ATIAL CO secret

 

orricer’s COMMENTS (Number each comment to shew from whem
to whom, Draw a line across column after each comment.)

TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond
building)

ple

v

ry

 

 

 

 

mm

" Ny

XY
1S)
~S

wer OO “EteN (SECRET ([] CONFIDENTIAL [(] |NTERNAL =f) UNCLASSIFIED
 

 

toe, . Sw NM LOE

VA CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROSRAR
a 1995

than OSWALD. Mexico Station has, to date, found no pictures of

OSWALD entering the Soviet or Cuban Embassy. ,

3. The search did reveal more data from technical operations,
however. This information, which comes in in great masses, had not
been previously associated with OSWALD because his name is not
actually mentioned in it, but the subject matter shows it is about
him, and our expert monitor says the voice is identical with the
voice of 1 October kmown to be OSWALD's.

4. his further technical information covers a round-robin of
telephone calls and visits which OSWALD made to the Seviet and Cuban
Embassies in Mexico City between 27 September and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obtained by the U. S. Consulate in the border town of Nuevo Laredo from

Mexican Immigration Service records.

5. In brief, all this information shows that Lee Harvey .OSWALD
entered Mexico (apparently by car) at Nuevo Laredo on 26 September
1963, claiming he was a photographer, Living in New Orleans and bound
for Mexico City. On 27 September he was in Mexico City phoning the

ee ae

Soviet Embassy to ask for a visa so he could go to Odessa, USSR. On

28 September, he was at the Cuban Embassy, and Silvia DURAN, a Mexican

Employee of the Cuban Enbassy, telephoned the Soviet Embassy about his
problem. It seems that OSWALD (whose name is not mentioned) wanted a

Cuban transit visa so he could go to Cuba and wait there for a Soviet 4

 
 

 

 

poe Be flame

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW
RELEASE IN FULL 1995

 

visa which would permit him and his wife to go on to the Soviet
Union. Silvia DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant
him the visa. A while later a Soviet official ealle Silvia DURAN
back and explains that the visa applicant had been dealing with
the Soviet Consulate in Washington about the same matter and that
they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet visa.

The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing
he belonged to an organization in favor of Cuba. Silvia DURAN and
the Soviet official agree to table the matter.

6. On 28 September 1963, OSWALD again visits the Cuban Embassy
and talks to Silvia DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the
Soviet Embassy. OSWALD also talks to a Soviet official on her phone
and says he will come to the Soviet Enbassy and give him what is
apparently a forwarding address where he can be reached. There is
some hint this address may be in Cuba.

1 On 1 October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet
Consul KOSTIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones
the Soviet Military Attache about the same matter. The Military Attache
gives him the number of the Consul. Finally, on 3 October, OSWALD
phoned the Military Attache again and tried to talk about a visa, but )
the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give hin”
the right phone number.

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back into the

United States at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo, Texas crossing point. He

 
