 

 

[oetorzetotsg

 

 

. Tuesday. - 8 November 1977

oo of ie afternoon in the Coordination & Review staff conference room with |
” Michael J, Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on ;
International Organizations, House International Relations Committee,

. (for only the beginning of the meeting) and ‘We discussed _

" and Mr. Hershman gave us a summary he had ed for the use of |”
"... Members at upcoming public hearings. Mrs. a
| summary and sanitize it as necessary. The remainder of the session —
_. was spent in an exchange of views as to CIA's role in ongoing
_ Congressional investigations of ROK/KCIA and related subjects.

_ receive a briefing on them at this time. Jack Williamson, So/DCI, .

 
     

INTERNAL Us “OHLY *

wee «

Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counsel

 

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on International Operations, who was following up ona
request he made on4 November for a copy of the secrecy oath which
former DCI Richard Helms had signed, I told Mr. Glennon that I was
checking this out with the appropriate elements of CIA and hoped to

- have an answer for him by the following day.

 

38, (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Spent the better part .

 

 

 

Also present were DDO representatives Evalina Vidal,

 

   

 

the Subcommittee's request to make certain CIA information public...

will review the

39. (Internal Use Only - RJK) LIAISON Spoke with Lot Cooke, °
on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning .
William R. Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works
for the Rand Corporation, Since Harris has already been briefed at
Rand on compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for him to .°

 

has been advised. ;
‘Cooke also requested the clearances held by Professor G Robert _

Blakey,. Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on oe

Assassinations, and Gary Cornwell, of the staff, because they wishto °° -

review a sensitive Committee document, After checking with Dan Godar, ©

OS, I advised him that they had their proper clearances for reviewing

the documents. ; 7

 

40. (Unclassified - RSG): LIAISON Spoke with Betsey Wolf,

House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, and offered to send to

her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document
was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents
nyolving the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

charted on 25 Alou FF

  

"INTEQHA

 
 

200/6

i--
c
‘3
ay
3
va
=~
