74-0000 . ~

ee CONFIDENTIAL

 

10 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR : The Director of Central Intelligence
SUBJECT “| 4  Beok Review: Portrait of the Assassin by
: Congressman Gerald R, Ford with John RB.

Stiles .

1. Thies memorandum is for information only to bring te your
attention a forthcoming book concerning Lee Harvey Oswald by_
| Congressman Gerald R. Ford with John R. Stiles, entitled Portrait of
; the Assassin (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1948).

2. Bz. Stiles is a long time political asseciste of Congressman
\° Ford and was bis special assistant throughout the Coagressmen's tenure
as a member of the Warren Commission established to report on the
assassination of President Kennedy. This book ia written sot se mach
te tall the story of the assassination of the President os to present a
study of Oswald as @ person and to describe his tripe and activities
i insofar as they are known, The book is comprised in very large measure
| of extended extracts from the published records of the Cemmiesics. The

 

testimeany and views of Oswald's mother, wife end brother, as well as
others who knew him, are set forth in some detail, Some emphasis is

laid os Oswald's stormy relations with his wife and his forcefal reactions
te difficult periods in that relationship.

3, Congreseman Ford tells of some of the problems the Com-
mission faced in developing the evidence in the case, but the book fe not
| eritical of the Commission or of its conclusions. Portrait ef the Assassin
{ contains very few references to CIA (pages 13, 17-19, 21, 23-24, 61, 152-3,
291, 342, 460), and these are unobjectionable. Only slight meation is made
of the charge put forth by Oswald's mother aad others that Oswald may
have been a CIA agent. In his conclusions, Ford stresses the importance
of "meaningfal human relationships”, and that these are what Oowald lacked.

for FOIA Reviewion FEB S77

 

CONFIDENTIAL
 

Tress 241 WHICH MAY BE USED

 
: CONFIDENTIAL’. ;

4. The first chapter of Portrait of the Assassin, entitied

The Cormmission Gots Ite First Shock, deala with the charge, seriously

advanced by Texas law enforcement officials, that Oswald was in fact

an FSI agent and eets forth seme of the Cornmission's deliberations as

to how best te prove the truth or falsity of this claim which was alec
being raised by certain other individuals and public media. As Gongress-

men Ford and the Commission Repert end testimony peint out, the charge

was never sustained, However, some of the writing in Chapter 1 is pos-
sibly loose exough to allow for quotation eut of context for thease who seek
te damage the image of the FBJ, In February, when CIA saw the galley
proofe of thie book, this information was called to the attention of the
¥SI cn @ ecafidential basis. However, ne action was probably takes by
them, because there appears te be mo change in the publiched wersicn
from the text of the galley proofs.

: Walter Piorshelmer
' Cavater
Historical Intelligence Cellection

Disteibution:
Orig & l w/book - DCI
lw/book - DDCI

lw/book - Ex. Dir ‘
1 w/book - DDP (Atta: me

1 - O/ DCIUPA

1 - D/Security (Atta: Mr. Gaynor)
i - CI Staff (Atta: Mr. Rocca)

I - OGC

CONFIDENTIAL
