 

 

f

Attachment
Page 3

LOPEZ-Conde, Enrique

Al2 $42 418

7-15-38, Guanabdacoa, Cuba
Fisherman

SUAREZ-Padron, Mario
AlL2 542 425 .
3-$-30, Cojimar, Cuba
Fisherman

 
 

:
'
i
i

 

Attachnent
Page 2

/~ REDONDO-Gonzalez, Roger
AlZ 542 423
2-3-35, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba
Captain, Segundo Frente del Escambray

7 RUIZ de ZARATE-Castello, Angel Ramon
Al2 542 424
10-2-23, Cienfuegos
CPA
National Treasurer, Segundo Frente del Escambray, Feb 58-Jan 59,

/~ LESNIK-MENENDEZ, Max
Aone
9-8-30, Vueltas, Las Villas, Cuba
Newsman .

[ DrAz-Horales, Pedro Manuel
AlZ 542 411
629-19, Guanabacoa, Havana, Cuba
Bus Conductor

LIcO-Diaz, Paulino

Al2 542 417
6-22-11, Cuanabacoa, Cuba
Cook

/~ PORTA-Bolanos, Gustavo
Al2 542 422
10-10-32, Havana, Cuba
Laborer Contractor

/ NAZARIO SARGEN, Andres
A-- :
3-11-16, Laza de Medio, Las Villas, Cuba

/ aaNos, Angel Gilberto
A--
8-12-34, Miami, Florida

CONZALEZ-Frega, Jesus
A12-542 414

8-28-28, Jerez, Havana, Cuba
Fisherman :

 
 

Page & . \

18, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo is an intelligent and capable man. He did not
sive up a shred of useful informacion in rix hours of interrogation. He aever
once gave any indicatton of nervousness and was cool, calm, and collected at
every moment. He pursued his story carefully and correctly, never got mixed
in his details, and alchough his explanations of many things, in: particular
his lack of occupation the last two years, were completely unbelievable, he

did such an excelleat job of discussing the situatiou that he sounded plausible. .

19, It is the opinion of Hunsaker that this man will not divulge information
under normal interrogating techniques. It appears evident that he has a great
admiration for himself, he feels he is a great man doing.a great job--regardless
of.what he considers that job to be at the momenct--and could not be shaken by
ordinary means of persuasion. Subject is an extremely handsome young man, and
it is obvious that he is proud of his good looks.. It is the opinion of some
of the men who have interrogated him that the weakest spot in his armor would
be a threat to mar his good looks. The threat of a good solid poke in the nose
might have considerable effect upon subject's willingness to talk. i

83
JUSTIN F\ GLEICHAUP

 

QHunsaker/amb

Attachment: List
 

 

Attachment

List of Eley Gutierrez Memyo Group:

‘Name

Alien Number

Date & Place of Birth
” Rank :

¥ GUTIERREZ-Menoyo, Eloy
A1O 190 153
12-8-34, Madrid, Spain
Comandante, Segundo Frente del Escambray .

4 “ASENCIO-Suarez, Lazaro

" -Al2 542 409 :
10-4-25, Santa Clara, Las Villas, Cuba se
Comandante, Segundo Frente del Escambray .

_ “ FLEITES y Diaz, Armando
ALL 240 493
4-4-30, Santa Clara, Las Villas, Cuba
Comandante, Segundo Frente del Escambray

  

GONZALEZ-Guanche, Augusto

Al2 542 413

11-2-37, Bacuranao, Havana, Cuba
Comandante, Segundo Frente del Escambray

/ LA ROSA-Sabina, Jesus
Al2 542 415
9-3-34, Camansyague, Las Villas, Cuba
Captain, Segundo Freute del Escambray

4 OJEDA-Diaz, Busebio
A1l2 542 420
10-29-30, San Juan de Los Lleras, Las Villas, Cuba
Captain, Segundo Frente del Escambray
Interventor of Ownibus Lines |

/ ORTEGA-Acosta, Doningo
Al2 542 421
= = = 3 Central de Amezonas, Las Villas, Cuba

Captain, Segundo Frente del Escambray

¢ PERNAS-Lorenzo, Florencio
AB 557 929
10-17-27, Ravana, Cuba
Commercial Eeployee
Captain, Segundo Freate del Escambray

Peaieeem
 

 

DLE

| eracoatn roa ma. 8 _ Moos

Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

3 Chief, Sactect Divtatre DATE: 39 January 1962

: Suppert (Crowley) \ :
L/A BSranch (McCrea)

FROM : Chief, Miaal Office

To .
ATTN

SUBJECT: Interrogation of Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Chief
of Segundo Frente del Escaabray |

1. On 27 January 1961, Eloy Gutierrez Mencye, Comandante, Segundo Frente
del Escamdray, was interrogated at the Miam{ offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. The purpose of this interrogation was to establish
a@ basis upon which Gutierrez Mcnoyo could be excluted froa the US.

2. During this interrogation, Gutierrez Mencre stated that he was bora
in Madrid, Spaia, 8 December 1934, That he was Capen to Cuda when he was 11
years old by his parents, who still reside in Cuda. Re never formally secured
Cuban citizenship, although he felt that under the terns of an oral decree by
Fidel Castro he vas entitled to Cuban citizenship ca the same terms as Ernesto

"Che" Guevara.

3. Subject further stated that he had first become a revolutionary
against. the Batista Government of Cuba in 1952. fa 1957 he made his first
trip to the US, to Tampa, Florida, under an assume! nape in order to secure
arms for his revolutionary companions. When this tissica was successful he
returned to Cuba and was named Comandante of his grcup, which became known
ag the Segundo Frente del Escambray, He made spevial meation of the fact that
he had never received an official designation as a military officer by Fidel
Castro, but that his allitary rank had been conferred upon him by the officers

and men of the Segundo Frente,

4. In 1959 subject visited the US with @ grup of Cuban Revolutionaries,
and said he was “presented with the keys to the city of Miami", This travel
was performed under a special passport issued by the Goverment of Cuba.

5. Subdject claims a brother was killed during the Spanish Civil War
fighting against Franco, and another brother was kiiled in the attack on the
Cuban Presidential Palace, 13 May 1957. His father is an M.D. who is in
charge of the Hot Springs Sanitarium on.the Isla ¢e Pitos.

6. Subject further stated that in 1960: he eran laying plans ko escape
from Cuba ss he had become disillusioned with Castro. He said Castro no longer
represented the ideals and principles for which he had fought in the revolution,
However, it was noteworthy that subject at no time said he had a hatred for
Castro, and on one occasion specifically said that he still matatained a

personal liking for Castro.
 

(O4-f02640117 ae

  
   

    

ae ~

  

in Seet. 2. on back.
poand forwand.to Rio...
2. Gestrey st cover sheet, unless it
feconis significant action taxen or
requiring presorvation.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Detach back :
Tf file no. and title shown are not

prepor, insort preper file no. belo
and forward docugent to RID/AN.

  

 

PROPER FILE NO.

 

 

 

 

> or
) ~
2D =
i) oo
is Oo:
\ :
| . w |
: :
mo es
oe
tt

 

i) r)
i
iL / @
: yo -
ee te
t 17. ~ Fag TTR
: RID/FI ; fa
Lf : _! . — w
} . i : apermacr f “FiLd MUMBER «PRIMARY CODED
i TRACE " A ty
es aed re A ea A .
DATE MICAOPHMED POOL MAMT OATH OOCUMENT NUMBER .
sg - | ry : :
a an ~ BCE 13510 .
» 170 wen fol 4. )
TS 6100 “Soe SeCREY . m1:
, . 270%.
 

7, As a means of factlicating his escape from Cuba, subject,said he *
beyan a campaign to sell bonds in Cuba for the purpose of raising an army
to liderate Spain from the despotic rule of Francisco Franco. The name of
this liberating ary Was to be "Ejercito de la Liberacion de Espana" and
the movement became known as the "ELE", Subject stated that in the fall
Of 1560 ne was called in by Prestdent Dorticos of Cuba and told chat because
the Cuban population was making a joke about the initials of this organization
by saying it stood for "Ejercito de Liberacion del Escambray" (Escambray
Liberation Aray) he would have to stop the campaicn to sell bands.

8. Subject said he made a trip in 1960 to Spain tu visic his birthplace
and to meet telatives of hig country. He sm ted that he made this Crip at
his own expense and that. he travelled alone, Immigration officials had
positive information -that he made this trip in the company of Armando Fleitas

Ty Diaz, another member -of the Segunda Frente Group, but when he was challenged

on this point, subject flatly denied that Fleitas accompanied him to Spaia,

that he would henceforth be ineligible to return to Belgium. He protested this
action as he was travelling on a Special Passport issued by the Government of

Cuba,

10. Subject seated that after 1 January 1959, when Fidel Castro assumed
power {n Cuda, he has exercised no official function. He received salary
checks, as a Revolutionary Army Officer, for the months of January and
February 1959 but he did not cash them. He was requested to pick up his pay
at military headquarters after this, bute stated he had never done so.
stated that he had. maintained himself in Cuba from the proceeds of a small

bar he owns in Havana,

‘ LL. Subjece stated that he, and other Segundo Frente officers, were not
trusted by Fidel Castro. Therefore, he has never been given any official
position in Cuba. On several occasions Castro has offered him a Position ag
Military Attache in a Cuban Embassy in a foreign country, but on each such

12. Subject stated that about 10 to 15 January 1961, i¢ became possible
for him to arrange through Busebio OJEDA~Diaz, a Captain in the Segundo Freate
for passage to the US. Accordingly, he passed the word to other Segundo Frente
officers with whom he had had previous discussions regarding escape from Cuba.

e
 

 

Page 3

13. Although their departure was noticed by suards aicag the coast, dy |
militia members, and by patroi Souts, Subject stated that they were not
impeded because they were heavily armed with machine gens, pistels, and
rifles, and, apparently, because some were ‘in uniforms with insignia of
high rank. The 19 members of the group (List attached) made their way in
three fishing boats to Key West, Florida, where they arrived curing the

night of 25-26 January,

16, This {nterrogation lasted from ten am to one pm at which time
Gutierrez Menoyo vas returned to a detention cell in the Immigration head-
quarters. Q. Maurice Hunsaker was present during this interview. During
a break for lunch, Mr. Edward Ahrens, District Director, IANS, stated that
the members of the Menoyo group would have to be removed from the I&NS
building in Miami because he feared an attempt to remove. Gutierrez Menoyo
from the buiiding might be made. Arrangements were made with the Commanding
Officer, Homestead Airforce Base, to place the Cuban group under custody at
the Base until arrangements could be made for them to be flem to the IGNS
Detention Camp at McAllen, Texas. an

15. Therefore, it was agreed between various CIA representatives in the’
area that Hunsaker aided by Luis Rodriguez, ACSI representative, would
continue interrogating Gutierrez Menoyo during the afternoca. The group would
then be taken to Homestead AFB after dark. tt was agreed that Hunsaker and
Rodriguez would question subject in a friendly and pleasant ranner in order
to acquire as much information as possible from him so that discrepancies
in his story could be ascertained. If was the consensus of all concerned |
that subject was telling complete untruths, but that he was extremely skilled

in doing ao,

16. Consequently, Hunsaker and Rodriguez continued questioning subject

from two pm until five pm. During this time, subject maintsized the general

continuity of the story he had expressed during the morning bours. Many

attempts were made to secure Order of Battle information, names of military
‘officials, sympathies of named officials, plans of the Segundo Frente or of
:the Government of Cuba. Subject pretended ignorance of all these sudjects.
;He maintained that because he was not trusted by Castro he had not been
vallowed access to any military bases for the last two years, Because of
ithe numerous personnel changes he did not know the names of officials in
Amportant posts, etc. By this cime it became evident that firmer measures
‘o£ interrogation would be required, and it was Planned that ccatinuous

interrogation and a polygraph would be employed on subject after arrival -at
Homestead Airforce Base, : i

i 17. However, a sudden change of plans occurred and shortly after five pm
the entire group of Cubans was whisked to the airport and put aboard a chartered
plane for New Orleans. At.New Orleans they were to be transferred to another
plane for passage to McAlien Detention Camp. No further interrogation of
subject was possible. : :
