74-00000

29 November 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting of the Task Force (Augmented)

1. Bob Wall, Russ Holmes, Bill Sturbitts, Chris Hopkins,
Ray Reardon and Launie Ziebell met with John Leader and me
this afternoon for about an hour and 20 minutes. The subject
of the meeting was to discuss the problems posed by possible
unclassified release of Agency documents concerning Oswald
and related subject matter. Some of the points made are
summarized below.

2. Ziebell said that he had been engaged since April 1976
going through the so-called Oswald file page by page. He
estimates that 75% will be declassified by mid-December. The
kind of material being deleted for FOI release are as follows:
station references from cable traffic to avoid showing the
location of stations; information identifiable as having come
from Liaison; information identifying clandestine operations;
information identifying persons whose positions might be
impaired, He noted that the telephone taps in Mexico City
were among the deleted materials. He noted that there are
still some files to be reviewed in addition to the Oswald file,
including some 2-1/2 safe drawers in the Office of Security,
the Mexico City Station files, soft files,and "the Rocca collection,"
CIA/SIG, and OGC and DCI files.

3. Bill Sturbitts noted that Mexico wi have a new
president, a man who has had control off for a number
of years. He can be expected to not look favorably upon 2A
eae of that relationship. Sturbitts noted that

 

 

 

was involved in this relationship. Sturbitts also noted that
the photographs of the unidentified man at the Soviet Embassy,
if released without ''cropping" to delete the background, would
reveal the location from which photograph surveillance was
conducted and make possible the identification of the person
in whose name the property was rented.

 

qreceentimeme came ot near 2

sa 2... ayarye

 
[0g 10095-10105

 

27 November 1976

 

/ Date
SBR x

WADKER

Leader for Task Force file

From:
SDBreckinridge

Return to:
74-0000
’

4. We discussed the size of the file problem, in addition
to-the so-called Oswald file which is being declassified by
Ziebell. The Cuban Ops file being reviewed by the Task
Force in LA Division does not, for the most part, have any
relation to assassinations; however, there were basically
some 900 file folders which in turn led to another 300
folders. Because these are basically operational files their
release poses problems.

5. There was discussion about sending a cable to the
Mexico City Station inquiring both as to what records are still
there relating to the period of Oswald's visit to Mexico and o.

 

afterwards, and also for a statement on the reaction of

 

 

 

and the Mexican government if materials on this subject were
released to the public. The feeling was that such a cable should
come from the IG.

6. Bob Wall felt that the IG and the DDO should consider
the matter in preparation for discussions with the DDCI. Those
present agreed to assemble some material that would give some
feeling for the size of the problem, of reviewing for unclassified
release, and samples of the kinds of information that would be
released and the significance of it in security terms and in
terms of the Agency's equities.

Ta BL AL

S. D. Breckinridge
