SECRET

é .
_ 2h March 1960

MEMQANIUN FOR: Chief, 10 Division

 

SURIRTs PERMINDEX and World ‘Trade Canter
ae REFERRING 8 Your Memorandum Request, 10 November 1959

ital WN om. iH Be ta
|

. , : 1. We wrote to Chief, I0AL on 25 February last that we had to

: ‘date recalved some information via Ayoncy channels but it was not

: _.  gufflelent to come to any intelligent conclusion with respect to the
-————‘ttama contained in paragraph S$ of the mempranduz in reference.

; 2. We, however, vere hopeful that more valuable information
: eonid be obtained throuch another source. This has now been received

 

i
. and while it is not complete it does furnish considerably sore infor=

, mation than heretofore obtained. The information haa been obtained
_ fron a recently formed Hew York Company as U. S. representative of
i the world Trade Center and, more particularly, the firm enzaged to

promte interest snongat 7. 8. industries and obtain contracts for.

: apace for the opening on 21 May 1960.

_.... 3. Attached Exhibit "A" gumarizes the Information received
! -,- @nd the following comments are offered thorcon:

i a. Capital

; It is conceivable that the capital of tha Italian
comany is not in addition to that of Permindex as previously
it has been stated that Permindex was the investing entity in
tha world Trade Center.

be Loans

This information was soucht at the inception of our
inguiry for it was inconceivable that the company could have
prepared the buildings for an international exhibit over a
pariod of 18 sonths with only the subscribad capital as the
gouree of funds. The funds raised from the two syndicates ast
have provided the cost of manarement and all the mitiferioug
alans in preparation for the establishment of the Permanant
International Exhilition, the main ourpose of the orcanisation,

_ including the proparation of the various “Palaces” with all tho
atilities required which in variouga vrees releases and the like
bad reached one million dollars. Thore would also be the down
paynant on the 18 year leags referred to later.

|

 

SER: creme ct mmem we emmmnrEnirer mena.
 

peer

 

 

Ge Operations

\ On the basis of hopes expressed in item 2 of Exhibit %A®
would appear to be a possibility of cross incozs from rental
cules of $1,625,000 for the initial year, which is aprroximately
508 of the potential. Plus admissions of, say, 1,500,000, against
the hope of 2,500,000, which would return $750,000, This would
give a total .ross income from those two sources of $2,375,000 for
tha firet yoar. There .are no fiyures available of offsetting costs
of the venture, including the annual cost of the leased pranisas.
With respect to the coat of finishin; the buildings leased ant the
installation of electrical, telephonic and othar facilities, it is
ret known why tho lesseca should be called spon to meet the costs
. normally the game would be berne by the owners, in this case the
\ Italien Goverment. .

d. It ie believed that a considerable mumber of the
estimated attendance 1s based on U. S, tourtsta but we question
_ the validity of this theory unless the exhibitors who can take
, orders are dealing in over-the-counter type of merchandise, which
‘wuld not seem practical. There are other points of interest for

, the short term tourist to Rone.

, @. With rerard to the failure to obtain U. 8. exhibitors
and the restrictions inmmosed upon then and other non-menbers of
the European industry organizations, as mentioned in Exhibit "A",
‘At would seem that thare has been a lack of research on the part
of management since one of the features stressed was the selling
that could be done at the site. This is contrary to the rules
at the Milan Trade Fair which takes place between 12-27 April

1960.

‘he = At thts stage, the venture seems hiphly speculative from an
investor's point of view. For, if the present exhibitora failed to
rengy their contracts for space at the end of the first year, the
possibility of obtaining replacements and extending the space sold
would appear to be rather remote, If the Agreement of Lease signed
by the Corporation, saldto be for a period of 13 yoars, should be
breached the penaltisa involved would no doubt be high. Pallure to
achleve succesa by rental of all space to International Exhibitors on
@ broad base would be a serious handicap of such proportions that it

would te calamitous.

5. ‘The preliminary reports from various consulates and
embassies wore virtually uselesa as they consisted principally of
propaganda claing to bolster interest in the grandiose plang of the
principal or ostensible ontrenrencur.

 
 

 

ie

3.

he

Se

6.

Te

8.

February 25, 1960 SECRET : |

INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY DR. KATY
VITH RESPECT TO PeRiNDER ufo. atw aid
SUSSILIARE

v

It has been learned that the orl:inal authorized and paid up
capitals of the two companics involved in the World Exhibit
Enterprise, initiated by Dr. Nary, nre as follows:

cee Roreign Bqaniv U. Be
Currency Currency —

PERMINDEX LTD. Registered Jan. 30, 1956 ~
Swiss Corporation Sw Fres 1,000,000 $230,000

CENTRO MONDIALB COMMERCIALE S.P.A.

Rejistered April 22, 1993 .
Italian Corporation (Affiliate) Lira 1,000,000 $160,000

It La assumed that the capital of the Rome affiliate is wholly

gubseribed and paid up by the parent company, PERMINDEX. Is this
a correct assumption?
Has there been any increase in the authorized capital of the

Italian company since the inception? If a0, to what extent?
Nemes of subsoribors and amount subscribed? Amount pald up.

Vhat was cost of completion of EUR bulldinzs end vrenarstion of
gama for oponing date of Permanent exhitit? Was this cost borne
vy owner or lessee?

Financial statement as at Decanber 31, 1959 or more recent date
of both companies consisting of certified Jalance Sheet and Profit

and Lese Statement prepared on the accrual basiae

Contracted space by Exhibitors by countries for first year
commencing May 1, 1960 openin: date and subsequent years if any.

Amount of firet year's expected gross income segrezated se to
types
Amount of first year's expenditures segregated

(a) Anmal rent of EUR buildings
(b) Other departmentalized.

 
14-00000

we co pate ape

vt

genes

acide Te en ah

so . 25 February 1960

*

NMGMORANDUN FOR: IO Division, Chief, Sranch-l —

ao
TN SD?
bon

' SUBJECTS’ PsAMINDLX and World Trade Center
: Memorandum of 10 Noveaber 1959 F
. bt
le We rogret to say that up to date the inforzation obtained via 5
Agancy channal.s does not vrovide us with sufficient data to form any as
}

   

 

opinion sith respect to the items contained in paraprash 5 of the sub=- .
ject memorandum. ‘Consequently, as we have discussed with you, the only a
logical source of the essential: facts is Dr. Nagy himself. We attach ve

: a List of the requirenents as we see them.
4
: 7 the hope-of obtaining some up to date information on certain aspects, 7
\ althouch we are not too sancuins. Cards are being held very close to

the chest. ‘We should have the answer shortly.

ad
ma StS

i . .

| 2. We have one more line of inquiry out via reliable friends in
+

|

i

i

i ee
\ . : 3. ‘e shall then try and assemble the ragged and somewhat con ci
‘ Poe flicting information that we have been able to collect and furnish |
: same although it will be of little real value to the main subject a °
: matter. og
: !

he tr. Nagy ia, we are convinced, the only ona who can give
the necessary information by furnisning the answers and data requested

os
iH . a?
: a Cow f
oi a
‘i ‘ . CHARLES Po WHITE
* Comercial Staff

4
4
a
oe
'

in the attachnents

E
fl
I

‘

 

     

    

    

EG SOF

isc ted anccehete Sete Sele CA Skene

 

ey Nal: * :
SE her a tepaeti Pees feelin RES ae

     
 

. Teme mats Sena ce NS ER ORNs BET DES
at . .

RRP .

By

wd
sohity
. ry ay
2
u
. ¥
Ab

- a

yee
Ae
i

23 Eovenber 1959

. . ’ ;
HOQRANDON FOR: Chief, RI Index Section’

ATTENTION: Hr. As J. Zarichak
—— 1002 L Building

TTT ET eg aie

: 1. Thie Staff. has recently been dented to render a report on
fee . @ certain orpanization and an affiliate ant wo need Risterical data”
. . . goncerming: eoveral imdividuale, which appear on the attactad list.

2. Tho.fullest information evatlatle, inct finwnctal
: stancing and intogrity, as well as political affiliations, etc.) is
+ required. . 7

CRLELSS P. WHITS
Comercial Staff

: Le :
i cares i
. tee, sone i :

“lee rth <b LY BU 7%

DA fee fer

 
1400000 .
2 a ”
oa : a : toe were 8

J - —_ ~ 1
are yt : oe a -
; eos, SECS
a,
t
f i. Dr. fereno tagy Be-Trive Minister Hursary, pre 19hS. Hes
H regiced in United States, latterly fros
: 1950 hae been in Ewitzeriand - Basal.
; ‘ee Reputedly involved in PZRMIRDSE Ltd.
2. Or» Ernst W. Infeld Lager, 3 Lovenstrasse, Zurich,
t Switzerland.
: 3. Dr, Ernst Zetest Bern, Suiteerlend
i &. Count Carlo D'Azelte . Rome. Reportedly President *korid Trade
i Conter*(Centro Muntial Commerciale =i Roma)
t 5S. Georges Mantellos Raturalized Swiss of Bungarian-Rumanian
i origin.
: . Aleo known ass Georges Mandel or
Georpes Mandel-Montello.

Hay have resiced ate

: 7 1C Averme Pechier and

: Flace Derouleds, 3. densva

. . Te said to have @ police dossier of
extersive provortions.

6. Be Ae Kantello ? fons, Italy. Ia there any connection
with S ssove?

7. Frite Schurch Fasel, maybe Pore at prasent.
8. Hana Seliguan-Sehurch Pacel. fanker
9. Dre Edgar Salin Tasel
. ve
a 7
, ‘ no Of
arn | roger
e ; r- -
i . ‘, “

sep WE Shee,

 
14-00000

, Since World War II. (See attachments.)

 

. . 4

a
1

SEGRET ©

~2~ ;

that a Heinrich MANDEL~MANTELLO, an Austrian citizen, formerly
an Hungarian citizen, is the administrator of the World Trade
Center, PERMINDEX, Piazza degli Uffici, Viale del Lavoro,

EUR, Rome, He reportedly had contact with Hungarian Minister
Gyula SIMO (201-257724)., According to the 5 March 1967 story
in Il Messaggero, Henrich MANDEL-MANTELLO's father is George
MANDEL, ESBW-1819,-17 June 1954, states that George MONTELLO
(an alias of George MANDEL) had a son between the ages: of

22 and 26 years old in 1954, It is possible that this is
Hentich MANDEL-MANTELLO of CMC.

5. MANDEL, George (aka MANTELLO, George /and other
aliases/) is the subject of 201~-11728. He is described aa
an unsavory .person who has been involved in shady deals eran

6. No pertinent identifiable information was found on
Nikolaus FISCHER in addition to his being listed in the 1963-
64 Anouario Parlamentare as managing director of CMC.

7. The attached documents are related to an investigation
of PERMINDEX initiated by CIA in 1959. This was the result
of a query from NAGY asking if CYA would be interested in
uSing PERMINDEX in Some capacity. The documents did not
indicate whether or not CIA decided to use PERMINDEX,

 

ATTACHMENTS: ‘
A - A copy of a 10 November 1959 memorandum from Chief,
IOD to Chief, Commercial Staff requesting information
on NAGY and PERMINDEY of Basel, Switzerland. (Copy
received from Non-official Cover section of Central
Cover Staff.)

B - A 23 November 1959 memorandum from Commercial Staff
to Chief, RID/Index section requesting information on
a@ number of individuals including NAGY, MANDEL, and
D'AMELIO, (Copy extracted from 201-11728 on George

MANTELLO, )
C ~- A group of documents concerning PERMINDEX and CHC,

apparently in answer to Attachments A and B above,
(Copies extracted from 201-11893 On Ferenc NAGY.)

SECRET
[roa to1et 10114

 

 

 
 

AY .
RETOUR oO Sh t XN 3
Background Use Only tr? 177
Do Not Repreduca
24 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT: . Trace Results on Persons Connected with
Centro Mondiale Commerciale (World Trade
Center)

REFERENCE: Our memorandum of 8 March 1967 on Italian

aspects of the Clay Shaw affair

1. The, 5 March 1967 edition of Il Messaggero contains .
a story linking Clay Shaw, currently under Investigation in
New Orleans for his alleged part in a Kennedy assassination
conspiracy, with Centro Mondiale Commerciale (CHC) in Rome.
The story mentions four other persons as having been in-
volved with CMC: Carlo D'AMELIO, a lawyer and’ former
president of CMC; Ferenc NAGY, former Prime Minister of
Hungary; Henrich MANDEL-MANTELLO, president of the Italo-
American Hotel Corporation, who was managing director of
CMC; and George MANDEL, father of Henrich MANDEL~MANTELLO
and founder of CMC. A copy of the I] Messaggero story was
forwarded with the reference memorandun.

2. D'AMELIO, Carlo appears to be identical with the
Rome tawyer Carlo D'AMELIO listed on page 464 of the 1956
edition of Panorama Bibliografico degli Italiani D'Oggi.
According to Panorama, D™AMELIO was born in May of 1902 in
Naples, ts a Tawyer and publicist, represented the Savoy
(Ytalian royal family) heirs’ claims, and was King Farouk's
lawyer. The Il Messaggero story noted above states that
D'AMELIO was the lawyer and administrator of the estates of
Italy's ex-royalty. OIR-605, 15 January 4953, mentions a
fnu D'AMELIO, a lawyer for ex-King Farouk of Egypt. NECA-
5013, 28 April 1955, mentions a lawyer, Carlo AMELIO. This
document cannot be located and no further information is
available, It seems likely that all the above are identical
with the Carlo D’AMELIO of CMC.

3. NAGY, Ferenc, the subject of 201-11893, was a cleared
contact of the International Organizations Division. His 201
file contains a number of references to his association with
the World Trade Center. (See attachments.)

4. MANDEL-MANTELLO, Henrich, As reported in OIRA-
32933, 28 January 1963, an stated
O¢

“ SECRET

 

 

 
 

FE
fe
7
=
:
‘

ATO Bae OSE WEY

 

ee

SRSORANDUM FOR: -Chief, Comercial Ctaff

sunsets OT’ Pessancex Tforta trata ceater
———eeee

    

Dg sl

Le Ua Foves2 Licy, former price minister of Inopzy, presently
vealdent in tho Unived Ciates, end o covert azcocints cl 10D is Proate
dent of Pernindex, oa Gvica corporatica vita princisal efficca in Rome |
end representatives in various porta of the vorld. ‘is horld Gres
Center, in vitely Nocy ds also interested 4s escoclate] vita Ferninwex,
Brochures deceribing these organizatlons are eltacied.

 

 

2. Nagy has esked a representative of lod if CIA vould be inter=
ented in: :

8) Placing en fcorican businessman ca the Doard of Forninde:.
bd) Placing a CIA egent custhe stefe of Porrindsz.

¢) Purcicaing como chores in Pomindss thwouch tho clove reproe
sentative oa ths Boord in ardar to have a voice in tha mousceent
of 86. (Necy emiacizca thot the fir do weld fincuced oud that
tis is not a pltch Yor funds).

3. Tho adventeces vaich in Nocy'a Judeccat Pemmindex offero to
CIA includs opportimity to develep information om el ecutests in rany
developing commtoics of Avia end Afvics; cover; end tho poosibility of
isflucncing the economics of these esimtties to somz extent. (Fermincax |
ig reported to havo resresentatives reacining 52 couutrics, incluling the
Blog and several coumtrics of Africa end Asia.

. Permindex hao just opened ita offices ond exbibit halle in Ram
end expects to be in full. cperaticn in the pring a? 1960.

5» Before prrsuing this further, 10D would sopreciate CH Stafr'a
dudgeont on the following:

@) Finenctal condition of Permindcs and the Vorld Tvets Coater.
Dr. egy eaya that Bonca Del Loboro, Rum, Italy cea suply full
Geteils on cuch nattore.

b) Business potenticl of Permindex in tho exhibit end inter»
national traie ficlds its competition; eta.

 
 

 

 

Sfield}- longing Directs of .
tyesicaas ef ths World Trace Centers;

eerecra ond potenticl
ital : ‘
=g Director cf to Vorld trec2 Center.

or

      

6, Anything Cf Staff right furnich on the cbove vould te very rich -
eppreciated. We unéorstend thet tobsssy Rome, the U.S, Deportimnt of
Cormerce, nnd ICA have fevorably ropgorted on the possibilities of this

orguiitzations
. . Wrapeti ye eee ne
‘ _ ; con Iminn, JR.
7 a Chic? . .
Tnternational Orpouizations Divisica
Attachments

Brochure deseribing Permindex

10/1/EBB:ek (6 November 1959)
Distribution: .
2 - Addressee ‘
L - C/cover Div. V

1 + c/cp/oo

1 ~ c/10

3 - IO/l

 
