 

Executive Reghtry

CLE 79-6 G/o f
20 March 1979 : -

- MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussions with G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and
Director, HSCA

1. Messrs. William Sturbitts, DDO/LA; Pale Sumption) DDO/SE; .
Julian Fox, CI Staff; Jack Sullivan, OS;-Russ Holmes, and-T met with
Mr. Blakey this morning to discuss substantive issues in the final

HSCA Committee Report.

2. I don't think we made many points although Mr. Blakey ;
acknowledged our presentation in some instances. It is clear that Mr..
‘Blakey intends to cite the testimony of former employee Wilcott -about -
what he did in Japan (we had discussed this previously and achieved
some compromises from a security point of view, but clearly did not
prevail. in obtaining deletions about Wilcott's distribution of funding
operations in Japan; there is no mention of » ° We also
appeared to have no success in persuading Mr. Blakey to delete a summary
of what the Cubans told the Committee about CIA photographic Surveit lance :

- in Mexico City in 1963.

ve

 

3. We have. ‘already received and: commented on two drafts of
‘sections of the report that have. been received after we had been told that
we have .seen all ‘the drafts. We now have yet an additional two drafts, with

~yet another'on the way. It is hoped that these will affect the Agency but
marginally and that the reviews can be. completed without a major effort.
If there are no-more than these.three last sections, this phase should —
be over, so far as CIA is concerned. ; oo oe

4.- We discussed with Mr. Blakey whether the Agency should make a
‘comment on the Nosenko paper. The paper is a sort of rambling, on-one-hand-.
but-on-the-other-hand type. of discussion. It may prove useful for the
‘Agency to write a memorandum to the Committee summarizing f what it considers
to be the key issues on the subject.

5. Blakey described his production problem. He will have page |
proofs of the report printed at GPO. He states that he has met every .
request of ours on security matters and considers the drafts to be
unclassified. ney, will be handled in that way by GPO. When he receives

 

PIO

  
 

 

 

 
 

(44032240096)

eoareneiins >

" POUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SUP

Fe (Name, office symbol, room number,
duilding, Agency / Post)

a SA/D DES

 

Pre

  

a on | one Lad

icons C te TT Note and Retum

 

  
 
 
  
      

 

 
      

 

~ As Requested | ~~ [: [Prepare Reply.
*. Kireutate - H For Your. information .
Komment |
we cordination Uiaustity
REMARKS

 

 

 

 

 

  

19 NOT use this form a¢ 2 RECORD of approvals, concurrences, disposeis,
: 2 clearances, and similar actions : “

FROM: (Name, org. symbol, Agency/Post) Room No.—BSidg.

Zour-102 OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)
» ®ULS. G.P.O. 1977-241~-530/3090 Prescribed Oy or.
FPMR 1 1014-21.206

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
. . ; 2}
Distribution: ; ; x

Pa Boma ey
? ye ata TN,

ne ‘wa NE EDEN TIAL

the proofs, he will review and edit them. Around 15 April we can -

“expect to receive the formal submission for Agency approval or

expression of security reservations within the agreed five-day period.

6. I, personally, expect my work in the current phase to end-
with the comments which we will submit on these last three draft sections
of the report. I am not sure when my contract expires, but I think that
it must be about the time that the five-day countdown commences. I would

wish to prepare final comments on the final report for such use as the ;
Agency may. care to make of them. This should not take long to do so.
Mr. Holmes and I should be through with our work on everything but the
last bit either the end of this week or early next week. ; ,

LA. buschissrlgyy

S. D. Breckinridge
‘Principal Coordinator, HSCA

ec: DDO’.

DDA
“_.. SA/DDCI

at

‘Orig - OLC/Subj : >

1 - OLC/Chrono . : . _ AY

"= J Russ Holmes ; a : hy
OLC/SDB/ksn : . RG

 

a a
