13-00000 .. .

oe *.CONFIDENTIAI

(1) Carlos Teppedino (never heard of him)

(2) Jose Orta (never heard of him)

(3) Sam Giancana (read about him in newspaper; never met him)
_(4) Roselli (read about him in the newspaper; never met him)

(5) Trafficante (read about him in newspaper; never met him)

i (6) Manuel Artime (a prominent member of Cuban brigade; never met him)

(7) Big Jim O'Connell (heard about. him in the newspaper; never met him)

I was asked whether "No Name Key''meant anything to me and
I gave a negative response.

I was asked if I had visited Chicago in the course of my work
and I told then I had not. .

17. This is probably the appropriate point to underline my conviction that the

main, if not the only, point of concern to the investigators is whether I was
directed to sally forth and initiate contact with members of the underworld in
the U.S. and who directed me to do so. Their interest is even more pointedly _
focussed on whether I had anything to do with the Rosselli, Giancana, et al,
"operations". Once again, I explained that my job was broader thancthis by” a
long shot, and that I was never directed to take the initiative in establishing
contacts with the underworld. I said that several, probably no more than five
or six, of the people with whom I dealt were somewhat ‘'shady"' characters, in
some cases with recorded run-ins with law enforcement agencies.

Charles D. Ford —
Chief, Training $ Services Staff, OTR

CONFIDENTIAL >

dee See
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

assignment and reported to Sam Halpern; and that occasionally I undertook
tasks for Druce Ga ecver, Harvey's deputy, although these tasks were concerned

with the workings of Task Force W and did not involve contact with the Cubans.

at,

I was asked if there were any Special Assistant other than me in Task Force ¥
‘and I replied that itr. Zogby, C/iil/4 prior to Mr. Harvey's arrival on the scene,

had been retained as a menber of Task Force W.in an SA status. I said that

there may well have been others because people would show up from time to tino for
short tours of duty for several months or so and then depart to carry on

their work elsewhere, but that I could not recall anyone by name at the present
tine.

13. I was asked whether I used the name Fiscalini in circumstances other
than those described. I said that I frequently carried identification in
that nase and used it on several occasions. I described one occasion which was
an amusing one-time contact with no bearing on any item.of interest to the comait-
tee. The investigator asked whether I had ever contacted Cubans in Miami and I
replied in the negative.

14. I was asked if I had ever made contacts with people in New York City
other than those described. I said that indeed I had but that in one case, al-.
though the man in question lived in New York, the meeting took place in Newark,
New Jersey. In response to a question I said that the lead was provided by the

- Fal. I declined to identify the man involved on the grounds of the sensitivity

of his position at that tine and the fact that I do not know at present where he
is or what he is doing. (This was the beginning of the unsuccessful ECO Cnera-

tien which should be recorded somewhere in the Task Force W or Miami Station
Lles.)

15. I was asked whether I had eny knowledge of a meeting of the Attorney
General and Cuban exile leaders in the sunmer of 1962. I said that such a
meeting would not ‘have been unusual, in ry opinion, but that I had no knowledge.
of. such a meeting. I pointed out that it was common practice among many Cuban
leaders to try to acquire the support, or at least the appearance of support, of
U.S. agencies and prominent U.S. political figures. I further stated that
ménerous attempts were made to get the U.S. to support a Cuban government-in-
exile and that I had had one meeting in Washington with a Cuban leader who was

_constantly attempting to get us to support iim as head of such an arrangement.—

T identified tidis man as Mario Garcia-Kohly and added that he was sentenced to

prison some years later for counterfeiting Cuban pesos. The name '"Kohly’' ob-
viously rang a bell with Mr. Postal as he repeated it aloud in a surprised tone

- Of voice. ilowever, Mr. Postal did not pursue the matter.

16. Some of the other topics which were surfaced in comection with the
above major items: I was asked whether I knew the following people or recomized
the names. (My responses arc summarized in the parentheses and I can't. vouch for
all the spellings):

CONFIDENTIAL
13-00000

~ 2 ay CONFIDERTIAL

man and I sald that I recalled hin as a fairly tall man of average build with
black hair, black cyebrows and glasses. Of considerable interest is the fact
that perhans 15 to 20 mimites later I was shown an 3 X 10 glossy photograph of
Several people walking in front of what appeared to be a public building and
was asked whether I could identify any of the people in the picture. I could
‘not. Mr. Postal pointed to the central fisure and asked if I could identify him.
I said I could not. (The picture was of a man probably in his mid-sixtics with
flowing white hair - somewhat on the order of Senator Keating - a large doun-

, curving hose, white, straight eye brows behind dark glasses, a somewhat Lined,
puffy face, and a slightly receding forchead accentuated by the fact that his
hair was combed straight from front to back. The man was wearing a dark blue
or black suit, and one man appeared to be accompany ing him to his lett and
slightly ahead, and another man slightly to his right and rear. Without hav-
ing any reference -points by which to judge, my best cuess would be that tly
subject was about 5'10" tall. He appeared to be rather heavy, perhaps in the
range of 220 pounds. There seemed to be a caption of some sort at the bottom

_ of the Picture but this was hidden from.my view.) Mr. Postal asked whether
the main figure in the photograph could have been the man the Attorney General
directed me to sec. I replied that, even allowing for the difference in years,
the man in the photograph in no way-reseabled the man I saw on behalf of the
Attorney General.

7. Messrs. Postal and Rhea acain brought up the subject of assassination
and asked whether I had engaged in or had heard mention of, in Task Force W
or SAS, discussions on the subject of assassination either in general or
specifically with respect to Castro. I told the investigators that the subject
came up repeatedly when we were speaking with Cubans, many of whom, having been
forced to flee Cuba, sincerely wished for Castro's immediate demise. I said
that I had never heard of or engaged in conversations with Agency efficers about
any plan the direct and only aspect of which was the assassination of Fidel
Castro. I pointed out that on a mmber of occasions I dealt with Cubans who
wanted to kill Castro, but that im job was simply to attempt to extract from
these contacts the names of people in Cuba who might be of potential use to us
in intelligence operations. I said that I had never engaged in plotting with
Cubans rez: assassination but that I had many conversations with Cubans
regarding their desire co conduct paramilitary ac tivities which, as a by-product,

_ -rdght well result in Castro's death. I pointed out emphatically that the Agency* s

policy prohibits political assassination.

8. I was asked if I a Nestor Sanchez. I told them
that I knew them both and that Nestor Shared an office for a short period
near the end of my attachment with SAS. I was asked if "AMLASH'' meant anything
to me and I replied in the nogative. This was followed by whether Dill and
Nestor had discussed with me or mentioned an operation of -theirs invelving a
high level officer of the Cuban government, a military man who made frequent
trips out of Cuba. gain I could only reply in the negative. I added the
juxtaposition of( BLD and Nestor in the context of a single operation surprised

“CONFIDENTIAL:
13-00000

ra

CONFIDENTIAL

rae inasmuch as I belioved Nestor to have been involved only in psychological
operations and BiIT) working at collecting foreign intelligence. I was then
asked if the word "AMOTS” meant anything to me and I said it did but that all

‘I could say was that it had to do with counterintelligence activities. Mr.
Rhea asked me whether I could say that the 'AMOTS" activity was concerned with
‘cantacting Cuban exiles in the Miumi area and I indicated that this was my

umlorstanding. The subject was not pursued further.

§. Iwas asked about my visit to New Orleans (which I had mentioned during
the previous session) and I explained that these two trips were for the purpose
of attempting to find ways of establishing chamels of cormmication between the
exiled Cubans in New Orleans and their friends in Cuba. I indicated that I had
been able to come wp with a very fine prospect, a Cuban, and that I had turned
him over to one of our FI Case Officers. I also said that I had several dis-
cussiorswith a American whom I declined to identify under the general ground
tule relating to sources of information. Messrs. Postal and Rhea asked if I
would respond affirmatively if they were to suggest some initials which might
correspond to the naxe of my American contact. I agreed to do this but the
initials which they mentioned meant nothing. (Unfortumately, I cannot recall
then!) I volunteered the initials of my contact,"FJ", and this produced a blank
expression on the part of both investigators and a shrug of Mr. Khea's shoulders.
The final question I was asked was whether I had any tmowledge of the "Ponchar-
train Operation’. I told them that I knew where Lake Ponchartrain was, and
that's as far as it went. . . :

10. We spent a little time on the subject of General Landsdale. I ad-

miticd I had attended one meeting in Gencral Landsdale's office in the Pentagon.

I was asked whether anyone else was there and said that I could recall only one
name, Cornelius Roosevelt, but that there were two other people at the meeting.

In response to a series of questions about what was discussed at that meeting,

I said that General Landsdale was intorested in various paramilitary possibilities
and that my role was linited to giving a quick assessment of whether we had the .
agent assets to assist in carrying out the various possible operations that

General Landsdalo sugyested.

ll. I was asked whether tho term "Mongoose meant anything to me and 1

indicated that it was a general term used to refer to a composite of planned

operational activities. I said that I had no knowledge of any specific activity
being planned under this name and further explained that it was possible that
sae of my Cuban contacts might have been taken over by other Case Officers for
use under -“Mongoose’' but that I had no direct knowledgs of such having been done.

12. Mr. Robert Kelly expressed considerable interest in the organization of
Task Force W. At cone point he asked how many echelons there were between me and
Mr. Helms. I told then that I reported to Bill Harvey; that my title was Special
Assistant; that Mr. Harvey reported te Mr. Hels; that I frequently received

‘CONFIDENTIAI -
13-00000,

Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

‘Director of Training : . ,

10

bc | 3245 19 September Sh
Ke. A

She p

t , , :
DDTR . : Prange

DIR = .
Chief, Division D . ZL , - pes D4

7B-44 Has.

Assistant to the Director
6D-15 Has.

7 fan

 
 

104-10340-10119

‘INTERVIEWED BY:

“SUBJECT:

INPERVIEW FORM

 

 

 

 

 

“ LOCATION’ OF INTERVIEW. " Carrol Arms

 

wawe:, «FORD, Charles TELEPHONE) #0 >
ALIAS «0, .
OFFICE — oR
OFFICE APPROVAL -

Lo Signature : : Date
DATE OF INTERVIEW “48 Sept 1B TIMEI120-1315— _

 

[TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED: YES | - NO

 

_- FROM HEADQUARTERS
an S (time). ty

 

OTHER .
‘Postal, Gordon Rhea, Rhett Dawson,

 

_ Fred Baron, ‘Robert Kelly.

 

fad

 

 Ctiban Operations -“Task Force Ww

 

&

Assassination of Castro - Mafia connections.

 

cy

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMENTS: — Under oath. This was second meeting.
= x
A
. \
Attached.

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

 
13-00000

-- Building,

CONHDENTIAL ,

- 19 September 1975

i

iy

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

uh

. 1. On Thursday, 18 September 1975, I was interviewed for the second
time by investigators from the Senate Comnittee. The interview ‘lasted from
approximately 11:20 a.m. until 1:15 p.m. My testimony was recorded and will
be transcribed. When the transcription is ready I will be required to read
it and swear to the truthfulness of the statexents I made. Under ordinary
circumstances, a Senator would have been present to swear me in at this in-
terview. -However, because of the televised public hearings, no Senators were
available. An unidentified wonan operated the equipment which consisted of a
Sony casette recorder aml dictaphone casettc recorder. The_prinary questioning
was by Mr. Postal and Mr. Gordon Rhea, the same investigators with whom I spoke
on the earlier occassion. At one point or another during the proceedings three
other men joined us for various periods of tine. Mr. Rhett Dawson appeared
shortly after the interview began and remained for about en hour. Hr. Fred
Behren (I can't vouch for the spelling) arrived after about half an hour and
remained for approximately twenty minutes, having received a phone call which
took him away. Mr. Bob Kelly arrived shortly_after Mr. Behren and stayed for
about 10 minutes longer than Mr. Behren. The interview was conducted in a roca
in the Carroll Arms a former hotel across the street fron the Senate Office

Ten we

2. The meeting began with | a reminder that I could have an attorney present
and that I could refuse to answer any question which might tend to incriminate
me. I was asked to describe in general terns my work with CIA. I told thems
that I joined in 1949; that I was and am now a member of the Office of Training;

- that in 1960 or thereabouts I had a short tour of: duty with the Economic Action
-Group in the DDP, and that I went directly from that assignment to RH/4 in _ |.

Septerber of 1961.
3. I was asked to recall ny najor activities while with the Cuban operation

and I did so. I reported that my first assignment was the handling of a Cuban

agent, one we were using to build a nucleus of an organization for eventual
operations into Cuba. JI identified this man as Mr. Rojas (Mr. Rhea, having

heard my description of this activity at our earlier session, did not pursue
this matter any further).

COLETTI Of ,

leg dG opts tet
13-00000

2

~ CONFIDENTIAT

4. Tho investigators were interested in when I was assigned the code
name Fiscalini; the circumstances, under which the name was assigned, and who
had assicned it. I toldthem I had seen a Xerox copy of the memorandua (I
saw this during a mecting with ill Sturbits last Friday in bili's office)

which requested that identification in the name of Fiscalini be assigned to me,

Y explained the circunstances, which Mr. Postal and Mr. Rhea had heard at our
earlicr meeting, and.said that I thought the date was the end of tfarch, 1962.
The circumstances involved a contact by a New York lawyer, thru the Lepartnent
of Justice, concerning a client who had access to Cuba and wanted to visit
Castro to put in a special plea on behalf of the Bay of Pigs prisoners. I
identified the individual concerned (I still can't remember his name} as the
manager of the Toresa Hotel in New York. I did not identify the lawyer and
was not asked for his name. I identified a man I met at a second mecting in
Kew York as "Bubbles" Abdallah. I explained that the latter individual pro-
posed to accompany the manager of the Teresa to Cuba, the manager being an
elderly gentlanan with sone difficulty in walking. I explained to the investi-
gators that I had no further contacts with these people after 1 discovered that
Abdallah was wanted, or under indictment - I forget which - by Texas authorities
for smuggling drugs from Mexico. Mr. Robert Kelly was clearly interested in
pursuing the matter of whe assigmed my "Code Name." I indicated that the docu-
mentation that I received came from the Office of Security but that I did not
kn©Y whether that Office selected the nase or not.

- §. We went over again the story of my contact with a Canadian named ‘“Joe"
{I know this man's last : name ‘but have not been asked for it and have not volun-
teered it). I described one meeting and a telephone call involving Joe. In the
meeting he claimed that he could travel back.and forth from Canada - to Cuba; revealed
to me that he was interested in starting a smuceling activity involving goods
on the prostribed list; that he wanted United States citizenship and a great
deal of money in exchange for allowing us to send materials or tamper with some

. O£€ the shipments if we could get the proscribed goods to Canada. I explained: to

the investigators that my interest lay in the fact that Joe claimed he could
speak with Che Guevara and that I had attempted to get Joe to serve as a means
of conmmication between us and Che, which Joe refused to do. As for the tele-
phone call, I:told then that when Joe returned frou his trip to Cuba he called
to say that big things were going on in Cuba and we should meet right away.

_ Being aware that at that point we in the Agency were deep into what would later

be called the Cuban Missile Crisis, I told Joe I could not see him and that we
probably already knew what he had to tell me. That was the last I heard of Jee.

6 We spent a great deal of time going over my meetings with the Attorney
General and his interest in a small group of Cubans who claimed to have supporters
in Cuba ready to create an uprising in Santiago Province. This is the case de-
scribed in paragraph 3 of my earlier memorandim. The investigators were quite
interested in the identity of the man whoa I saw at the cequest of the \ttorncy
General. I went over this again in as much detail ‘as I could renember but with-
out being able to. recall who this man was. I was asked if I could describe the

CONFIDENTIAE
