 

 

 

 

 

  

a

een,

—————""". fle ropagandas hr. Braddock.
sory fer the U. 5, Uovernnent to Pre

tone O08. | ;

- meck.to halp ‘the econonys
‘niet be able to maintain a pre-war stendard of living level or a gress.
national product figure of pro~l959, ~ . Bes .

 

 

 
 

h they night provid ough to

“Lt-eeces evident that the cuban coverment will

   

prevent a total collapse,

> fe Popularity at the Cagpeetno Levels On this ratter it.vas-
pointed out thet. the biggest pein‘seened to be a psychclogical cne in
that, the Caspesino has tecn giver © {eling of trportance. Hidel kecpa
citing that. the Government needs the cuppert of’ these people; in addition,
their use in: the rdlitla and the iesusnce of arms’ to, then dncreasss. their

inportence. vod

: g. Gil Mituation: ‘Two of the three refineries axproprinted ‘by
the. Governnent are not operating et this tine. Ho accurate figures on
production vere cited althcugh it was 10. s3 that Soviet crude“oll seens
to be clving refinery operetcrs.2 touch problem. It wea pointed out that
gasoline is not rationers, anyone with a con car get his tack filled up ab —
the noerest gasoline station, ~ , Bo :

. he: AntieCApThG Phares, On the question e# te who bes the best
chance to lead the anti-Casv:¢ forces, Hr. bowler cited the fact that. j
Tony Verona escrs to have little following within Guba, -iowller made the. ;
point. that all Cubans seex 16 be in favor of tho revel on end wociel end) |
econosic reforms; that vithin this traneverk the principal aryumeit Ls how’.
to get the Revolution oack on ite original tracks bowler felt that k2nolo
Rey erence to offer the greatest prone of rallying popular eupport in

Cubse , . eee nf

  

atetet that it wes definitely neces— ~ 4
PSF up ita propa sania ecainst tidel, “In - a
pertimlar, he cited need for rcre radto and leaflet air drop operations.

cv apd pildtier CASTEC seers to hive rade clear thet

vored €lerant in the erned forces, The Aray may be

 

de man :
the militia fa the fa

" disgruntled ealout this but to cate does not seen te nave expressed acute

2
‘(rg 10498-40007

 

  

 

  

  

HENCRAROUN FOR TA RLAORD
gussets pewriefing of br. Daniel Ky Fraddock, chargé from U.S. inbaiey
_ in Bevana 7 ° es

- L, The wxersigned attended acdedriofing acheduled for 1500 boura,
LL Janusty in Room $512, New Stata Hetenaion. In addition to tr. Praddeck,
yr, villtca c, bowler, political officer, ant kr, Robert Sayer, econo CH
officer fro the !mbassy were on the panel. vee

2. bry Braddock opened’ the -detriefing by atating that Us &. Imbossy-
relaticna with the CALTHO Covernnent ‘were pocr at the etart of 1959 end oo
progressively Horses Ile stated it- was evicent from the firat that the .
. + CACTRE covertsent wus deteradned to treak down the United states! good
_ reputation fn Cube and throujhout Latin Americn and do everything possialo .
to change the friendly attitudes that the Cuban people bad Toy , smer Looms.

   
 

 

3. Among ‘the other itena discussed Nore: ~~

  

peak wountions: githougk Fidel CALTEG gave his first.
notice of the cut in Asericun imbassy representaticn to LL people during

a broadcast en the evening of 2 Jomury, tho iatassy did not receive a°
note to this effact in writing until C1CO hours, 3 January. After querying

relations be troken off because Lt vas impossible to sur bow, cur imbesay -
gould operate under these conditions. ‘

was evident thet the Gibten Governsen

on property eccupied by Americans, In sols cases, Cubans ‘were

the hones while Anaricans. wore packing to Jonve, fa of now, 3 Stete Cepart—

pent Cffictals are atiil in Havane ami one in Santiago to drav up inventorics _

of Asericen property left in the official installations for the Swiag ipbassy
which fa hantling our’ relations with Cubs, : S . .

be CLOTIO hepuleritys Although Fidel hes Yost a great deel of Lo
support in mextere, it is evident that his ceceelidation in goverment
orgenisation, ami influx of foreign errs bus increased bie strength
potential for eonbatting realatence, }¥. fewller estizated thet perhsps
orly 25% of the people actively ompeuge uATHC's policles. tffhand, they
thought thet se of the Luban pecple are sutmdusive and con't knew vhat to
do in the situation, and perhaps 29° would take active or pasalve measures
against the Government if they had a chance. . oe

‘present in.
 

 

 

 

 

oe ernnen'

ae

wee us Ca the questicn as to vhen the ASTI. =
Governiont swung into the Cooment st orbit, br, Keawdler expreseed the opinion:
that. the period April through Ceptember 1959 was the critical moment... He- .
thought that after Fidel returnod from his trip to the United States an -

. internal struggle betwen the moderates and the Communtots during this =
period rosulted in tho. Cotzuiiete galning the Spree hand with Fidel leading

the Government into the Soviet Bloc.

mptet, :
nn 6/ul/L/L?8
1 Lunas

- i?

i - WA / PH

oR = Files

- aveyen Eco exd SMI, ,

4 pointed out a measures against the ©
Chueh becone. too severe, his efforts aight doomerange ” ; a

 

    

 
       

i
i
t
i
i

  
