74-0000

 

6. Source K records also reflect reference to one Armando Bustos,
Rector of the University of Cordoba, who may or may not be identical
to one of the brothers of Subject's spouse.
pe PA

“ide

- 4 A \
7. %I&NS records reflect that Subject's spouse was married to | °

one Clotilde Pascual (NR - 0S Indices) on 27 Februery 1958 These reek

records further reflect that Subject's spouse has a daughter, Sylvia

Alicia Bustos, born in 1952 at Washington, D. C.

8. Neither Subject's security file nor the file of Subject's
spouse contains any record of the divorce of Subject's spouse from
Clotilde Pascual. Subject has not submitted an Appendix I signed
by her spouse.

9. In order to bring Subject's security file up to date, it is
recommended that Subject be interviewed by a representative of this
Division and that the following points be covered with her:

A) Subject should be asked to provide more complete
biographic data concerning her in-laws, specifi-
cally the ages and occupations of each individual.

B) Subject should be queried in particular regarding
any further knowledge she may have of her brother-
in-law, Armando Bustos-Videla.

C) Information should be secured from Subject con-
cerning any Imowledge she may have regarding the
connections of any of her relatives with the
Argentine government.

D) Discreet inquiry should be made of the date and
place of the divorce of Subject's spouse from
Clotilde Pascual.

E) Discreet inquiry should be made regarding the.
parentage of Sylvia Alicia Bustos.

F) Subject should be furnished an Appendix I to be
signed by her and her spouse.

Conreenn SOB roe Adcfos Thomas Pe

:ks é/> Ve 7

OM - CPyLkhele.
5 A </
 

(4-101f04011 a

 

fe A eee

 

STANDARD FonM MO. G4 -

" Office Memorandum*'

TO

EET .
(

aa |
“GNITED ‘STATES GOVERNMENT

Chief, Appraisal Section DATE: 26 June 1961

FROM : Thomas J. McGrath

SUBJECT: BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte Louise Zehrung - #56840

1. Appraisal action in Subject's case is based on limited checks
and field investigation which has recently been conducted on Subject's
spouse, Cesar Bustos-Videla - #187652, an individual who was approved
for USJPRS in July 1960.

2, Subject is 32 years of age and has been employed by this
Agency since 1951. She is an Intelligence Officer (FI), GS-12, DDP/WH,
Washington, D. C. She was indoctrinated for Special Intelligence on
29 December 1960. Subject was married on 18 March 1961 and immediately
thereafter she and her spouse took a two-month's trip to Western Europe,
including West Germany.

3. Subject's spouse is 39 years of age and was born in Argentina.
He entered the United States in 1951 and acquired United States citizen-
ship in 1956. Subject's mother-in-law is an Argentine citizen and
resides in Argentina. Subject has seven brothers-in-law and three
sisters-in-law, all of whom are Argentine nationals residing in Argentina.
From 1945 to 1958 Subject's spouse was employed by the Argentine Air
Force. He was stationed in Washington, D. C. with the Argentine Air
Attache's Office from 1951 to 1958. In 1959 Subject's spouse reportedly
attended George Washington University in Washington, D. C. During 1960
he was apparently a contract employee (interpreter) with ICA. At the
present time Subject's spouse is reportedly employed by Frederick W.
Berens, Rockville, Maryland.

4, National Agency checks conducted at FBI, I&NS end ICA (SY)
were either favorable or negative concerning Subject's spouse. Neighbor=
hood investigation and police and credit checks at Washington, D. Cc.
were favorable regarding Subject's spouse.

5. RI checks were negative concerning Subject's spouse and his
close relatives. Source K checks reflect reference to one Brigadier
Major Armando Enrique Bustos-Videla, who, as of September 1955, was
serving as Chief of the Argentine Air Force General Staff. It has not
been determined if this individual is identical to Armando Bustos-Videla,
one of the brothers of Subject's spouse.

RETURN YO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce” ;

 

 

 
