74-00000

6. I understand that for all grievances and complaints there are estab-

CONFIDENTIAL

Chen Filifed In)

.

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

lished procedures within the Agency permitting appeal by any employee of
the Agency and to carry any such grievance or complaint outside the Agency
will be considered a violation of the undertaking set forth above in
paragraph 3. If the appeal procedures are inadequate in any situation,

I am aware that the Inspector General is at all times available to any
employee with a legitimate criticism, grievance, or complaint.

7. I further understand and agree that my employment by the Central In-
telligence Agency is conditioned upon my understanding of and strict
compliance with CIA Security Regulations, and the appendices thereto.

8. Inasmuch as employment by the Government is a privilege not a right,

in consideration of my employment by CIA I undertake not to publish or
participate in the publication of any information or material relating to
the Agency, its activities or intelligence activities generally, either
during or after the term of my employment by the Agency without specific
prior approval by the Agency. TI understand that it is established Agency
policy to refuse approval to publication of or participation in publication
of any such information or material.

9. I agree that all information or intelligence acquired by me in con-
nection with my official duties with the Central Intelligence Agency
remains the property of the United States of America, and I will sur-
render, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Agency or upon
separation from the Agency, any material relating to such information
and intelligence in my possession.

10. I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental
reservations or purpose of evasion.

Pe WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this MF day of

fae LO 2 1922

 

 

      

 

 

   
  
  

Witness:
Ys Al ad Lita SIO C
Date

Downgraded to Unc ed
by authority of

Date _

CONFIDENTIAL
re ae ee ee ee a ee ; ret... 8
 

[td 0119-10031

6 .
ae ° wv
o¢ uo woe
coy

wo, . * CONFIDENTIAL

. oldu WN CH (When Fitted rn)
Auo 257 punoibeee
VID OL NALA

SECRECY AGREEMENT

 

1. I, oan Leopep Abonl » understand that upon enter-
ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency I am undertaking a posi-
tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi-
dent and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the
security of the United States of America. I understand that in the
course of my employment I will acquire information about the Agency and
its activities and about intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title
18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure
of classified information relating to the national defense may subject
me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such disclosure be
made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any
time thereafter.

3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have
a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to disclose any

- classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza-
tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any
person not authorized to hear it such information relating to the Central
Intelligence Agency, its activities , or to intelligence material under
the control of the Agency. I further understand that this undertaking
is a condition of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency, that
its violation way subject me to immediate dismissal for cause or other
appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally
binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it.

4, I understand that the burden is upon me to ascertain whether or not
information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it,
and, therefore, I will obtain the decision of authorized officials of
the Agency on these points prior to disclosing information relating to
the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my
dismissal.

5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature
of a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub-

licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation
of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

Downgraded to Unclassified — _
by authorit ot dacice 46 fee a
Date y 2 March I

CONFIDENTIAL aor

nor BEB cevcrste socvtaun sortions, + Soelbadeotee toot
