4, 7 .
SUBJECT: Meria Teresa P r o e nz a Proenza
DDO/C/CAS/ PAG/COB: CWAnderson:jd(ext. 1620)(25 May 1978)

Distribution:
0&1 - SA/DO/O
~ 1 - Memo. Chrono

1 - Hit Parade
1 - C/LA/STB
25 May 1978°

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O
VIA : Chief, LA/STB

FROM : Charles W. Anderson
Chief, CAS/PAG/COB-

SUBJECT -: Maria Teresa Proe n za Proenza

1. Maria Teresa P r 0 e n za Proenza, born
ll March 1908 in Havana, Cuba, is a Cuban citizen who
resided in Mexico for a number of years before the coming
toe power of Fidel C as t r o in January 1959. Miss Proenza,
a member of the Cuban Communist Party in Mexico was an
ociate of many Mexican and foreign Communists and

mple, in 1957 she was the housekeeper of famed Mexican
muaunist. artist Diego Rivera. She was also well

5
x
fs)
cquainted at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

BPD be Hy

2. When the incoming Castro regime took command of
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, Miss Proenza was
jocally hired to work there in propaganda affairs.
Eventually she was given the title Third Secretary/
Cultural Attache. She maintained her leftist Communist
and Soviet contacts and played an important propaganda
role for the Cuban Government because of them. :

3. On 13 November 1963 this Agency initiated an
operation to counter Miss Proenza's effective exploitation.
or her contacts in Mexico, a work which frequently had
strong anti-U.S. overtones. Miss Proenza returned to
Cuba in January 1964.

: 4. At no time has this Agency maintained contact
with Miss Proenza.

*Charles W. Anderson

co: C/LA/STB

PIB

re en,

 

ATO F

m
s
ftists in intellectual and artistic circles. For .
a

ote 7

eee BONS!

 

. Rese
13-00000

 

being made, several were included revealing the presence of another
"CIA agent" in the Cuban government, this time inside the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico. This target was Teresa Proenza Proenza,

jong- time Cuban Communist and contact of the Soviet intelligence

in Mexico, who was acting as Cuban Cultural Attache. She also

-was a Close contact of the Vice Minister of Defense. On

10 December 1963 Miss Proenza was informed of her sudden | transfer
back to Cuba; she actually departed on 23 January 1964. Her

recall was believed to be a result of the spurious documents and

of her known long-time friendship with the Vice Minister of Defense.

c. The first reaction to the ‘operation inside Cuba
occurred in the week of 14 March 1964. At that time a junior
member of the Communist Party (PSP}.was tried and convicted
of betraying non-Communist leaders of the resistance to the former
government of Cuba which had been overthrown by Fidel Castro.

As the trial wore on it became apparent that since the young
Communist had been the protege of the Vice Minister of Defense
the trial was really a trial of the latter.

d. During 1964 deliveries of documents to the Cubans
were continued and payments received. On 18 November 1964
the Vice Minister of Defense was arrested on charges of treason
and removed from his post, as was his wife who also held cabinet
rank. They were jailed as was Teresa Proenza.

 

e. After terms in prison all three defendants were
released to house arrest. Proenza was later permitted to work. as
a librarian in Havana. The Vice Minister died peacefully in his
bed several years later. His widow was allowed to leave Cuba-
to reside in Spain. This phase of the CIA operation wound
down in March 1966 when the Cubans ceased taking an interest in
it. :

4. Concluding Remarks 7 (

. The foregoing is but the barest outline of a highly
complex operational system that made use of a wide variety .of
techniques and assets which have not been revealed to the public.
The story would make dramatic headlines if it became publicly
known, especially in the present environment. The fact that

’ several persons were deprived of their freedom as a result of the
operation would attract further attention. Furthermore, this
operation laid the basis for other operations of a similar —
nature that were successfully mounted against Cuban and other
hostile targets. In short, this file is a Pandora's box the
opening of which would not only expose the cryptonyms of other
operations of. this type but would attract unfavorable publicity
for the Agency in certain quarters and would expose hitherto
secret techniques and assets. This would make their employment
in the future very difficult. The fact that this series of

SECRET
13-00000

operations did not begin to register on the Cubans * ‘until after
the death of President Kennedy should remove any suspicion that

it could in any way have caused Castro to direct an assassination

attempt against the President.
13-00000

‘Attachments

If you agree, the undersigned will undertake to discuss the
matter with the Chief Counsel of the Committee and seek
agreement, although he may raise the question to the level
of the Committee. chairman.

6. Recommendation: That the Chief Counsel, HSCA, be.

briefed in general ‘detail only on the nature of the opera-

tion involved in this matter with the request that the
matter not be pursued further by the Committee.

Sy Be

S.D. Breckinridge

APPROVED: yay Franke Co Carluset .
eputy Director of Central intelligence

DISAPPROVED:

 

Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

L 1878
DATE: 27 Jub

OLC/SDBreckinridge/hfs

Distribution:
1 - DDCI -w/atts
1 - DDO w/atts ;
- C/IAD/CAS w/atts
- C/LA Division w/atts |
ER w/atts
- LC w/atts
- OLC/Subj w/atts
- OLC/Chron w/o atts

ee eee
t

w
 

 
   

OLG # Qyas

26 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
FROM - : S.D. Breckinridge
SUBJECT : HSCA Request for Sensitive CIA file

1. Action Requested: That you approve the recommenda-
tion in paragraph 5 to withhold files on Teresa Proenza
Proenza with a generalized explanation to the HSCA Chief
Counsel of the reasons therefor.

2. Background: The HSCA investigators have come
across references to the name of Teresa Proenza Proenza,
who served in 1963 as the Cultural Attache at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, and have requested her file. ©
The files concerning this person lead to a very sensitive
deception operation that resulted in the jailing of
certain Cuban officials, including Miss Proenza. The
ramifications of the operation are extensive but do not,
of themselves, relate to the assassination of J.F. Kennedy.

3. The fact that Miss Proenza was ordered back to
Cuba. suddenly in December 1963, shortly after the assassina-
tion.of President Kennedy, may make her of special interest
to the HSCA; however, the cause for the recall was the CIA
operation.

4. HSCA has not been exposed to the techniques of
deception operations. This particular operation continues
to have considerable sensitivity, without reference to the
techniques that we would wish to not have exposed to this.
Committee. Attached at Tab A is a paper ‘summarizing the
nature of the operation. At Tab B is a shorter summary
prepared as a first attempt to get an agreement with the
HSCA investigators to not inquire into this matter further.

5. The Deputy Director for Operations has approved
recommendations of Chief, IAD/CAS, concurred in by Chief
of LA Division, that this matter not be shown to HSCA. +

(EXECUTIVE BESS Spe Ys E “oh
( aren ow. IB1TL..

SEC R PT ¢ aA AMPDET CL DY =~

  
   
 

 
13-00000

}

 

] uactassiciey” (INTERNAL (] CONFIDENTIAL ===] SECRET

 

     

a

 
  
 
   

. )ROUTING AND RECORD SHET )

[as (Optional)

House Select Committeé on Assassinations (HSCA) Request for CIA
Files on Teresa P ro en z a Proenza :

FROM: . EXTENSION,

Walter Raymond, Jr.
Chief, IAD/CAS 3D0004

 
  
   

 

 

     

 

   

 
  

   
 
 
 
 

   
 
  

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

DATE

RECEIVED | FORWARDED

    

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Drow @ line across column ofter each comment.)

 
 
 

“Y. Chief, LA Division
3C20

   

 

 

  
  
  

Deputy Director for)
Operations _7E26

   

 

Chief,
3D0004

JAD/CAS

  

 

 

 

 

 

| MK GTQ MESO EO] SECRET ©] CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL «= (]_« UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

 

 

“ MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT : Political Action Operations in Cuba - The PROENZA
Case

1. Introduction

: This memorandum sets forth information concerning the
conduct of a series of interlocking non-violent political action
operations against the Cuban government, its internal coalition
and its alliance with the Soviet Union mounted in 1963.

2. . Objectives

Pursuant to instructions from the 303 Committee,
during the Kennedy Administration, the CIA established among its
abjectives against Cuha the fragmenting of its governing
‘coalition and exacerbation of its relations with the USSR.
This decision was taken prior to the October 1962 Missile Crisis.
As a result of the decision a number of non-violent operations —
were carried out. Those pertaining to the Teresa Proenza Proenza
case are set out below. ;

3. The Operations

a. On 3 April 1963 a set of spurious documents falsely |
o— to a disaffected CTA [tent in Mexico were passed

 

to. the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
e documents made it appéar that the Cuban Vice Minister of
Defense, a highly placed and extreme Moscow-line Communist (who
had -beén in Moscow when the missile build-up was planned in
early 1962), was actually a CIA agent who had betrayed the build-
up.. The purpose of this disinformation was to cause a great
strain in the relations. between the Cuban Communist Party (then
known as the PSP) and the other partners in the coalition. It
was also hoped that the operation would redound against the USSR
because the Vice Minister of Defense was a senior Moscow-line
member of the PSP. It was calculated that the USSR would
move to defend the Vice Minister, who was probably their chief
agent in the Cuban government, and that a collision between the
Soviets and Cubans could result. The Cubans accepted the
spurious papers and paid for them per our demand.

 

 

b. Through the summer of 1963 several further deliveries
of spurious documents were made to the Cubans and several
thousand dollars were received in payment. But results of the
operation from inside Cuba were not yet observed. Therefore

on 13 November 1963, when-a delivery of documents was again

 

C3
pad

 

 

 
