MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Leaving CIA - Raymond G. Rocca's Story

1. The immediate background of Mr. Rocca's departure
from CIA was a brief discussion between Mr. Angleton and
Mr. Colby late in the afternoon of 20 December 1974. The

gist of the discussion was related to Mr. Rocca by

‘Mr. Angleton at around 1800 hours when Mr. Rocca was

summoned to Mr. Angleton's office.

Mr. Angleton said Mr. Colby, after referring
to a forthcoming article by Mr. Hersh, which,
however, had not exercised a determining influence
in his decision, had asked Mr. Angleton to leave
his position as chief and take the advantages of
retirement. In response to Mr. Angleton's question
about a successor, the DCI said he had not given
any thought to that, but had named three individuals,
presently overseas, as examples off the top of his

head. Mr. Angleton, as Mr. Rocca understood it from

Clack F/

Jo TS WHISAD
OLE Og #/
wif mR 6S
74-0000

him, asked the DCI whether the leadership
possibilities were extendable to Mr. Rocca or
Mr. Miler and was told, "that was negotiable."
It was stipulated that further discussion should
take place with the DDO, Mr. Nelson, and only

Mr. Rocca would be informed at that stage.

2. On Saturday, the 21st, Mr. Angleton telephoned
Mr. Rocca and expressed the view--with which Mr. Rocca
agreed~~that he should ask Mr. Nelson to enlarge the range

of discussion by including Mr. Miler.

3. Mr. Hersh's piece, falsely accusing CIA of running
a massive domestic surveillance operation, appeared on

22 December.

4. At.1000, Monday, 23 December, Mr. Miler and
Mr. Rocca were asked to accompany Mr. Angleton to a meeting
in Mr. Nelson's office. Mr. Nelson's deputy, Mr. Blee,
was present. The discussion took place under considerable
time pressure because as the meeting werit on, it became
clear that a Special DDO Staff Meeting had been called for
1100, at which, presumably, the results of the discussion

underway would be announced. Among other details there

‘was an extensive discussion between Mr. Angleton and

CMa chore?
Fi 7S 2G 2527
OLE es #Y

2
 

TOP SivrRev

-~7-

in New York before joining the CIA in Washington. (It
seemed apparent to me that Rocca must nave spoken to
hood and did not want to incorrectly interpret what liood
had told me.)

Based on the above discussion, Rocca said
that he felt it was important tnat a Federal law be
enacted which makes it a crime for a CIA employee or
former employee to reveal classified information which
he learns in the course of iis activities. Rocca said
tnat it was ironic that such laws existeu for other
agencies but not for tne CIA.

Rocca also referred to the tiersh article of
January 10, 1975, relating to the possible destruction
of CIA files. Rocca said that contrary to the implication
in the article that files might be uestroyed, he personally
wrote a memorandum stating that no files should be
destroyed under any circumstances given the existence
of the present investigations. Rocca will provide a
copy of that memorandum,

TOP StecRut
TS ?FOS 27
OL cly w Y
 

TOP SeCRut

- 6 =

H. Surveillance, Ureaking and intering, ‘aps, xtc.

Rocca was not aware of any such activity by
CI in tne United States,

I. Present tl Activities within the United States
ee hes within the United States

Rocca said that ne was aware of only four
areas in which UI presently operates in the United States.

1. cI handles four Soviet or bloc defectors
in the United States. For example, CI has aman on the
bast Coase who is a retired annuitant acting as a local
handler of a defector.

2. I has various consultants on projects
doing work in the United States. ‘hese are people
actually working under a contract with CIA. For example,
a woman is currently working part time on a book relating
to the use of disinformation. ‘he contract relating to
preparation of this book calls only for its publication
abroad, and a foreign publishing nouse has agreed to the
publication.

3. CI nas twenty former agents who previously
worked abroad, now acting under military cover in the
United States analyzing the Sovict press for relevant
intelligence information.

4. cI has several people who may not be CIA
personnel reporting on their contacts with Soviets.
both in the United States and abroad, these people may
also report on their contacts with people abroad who,
in turn, have contacts with the Soviets,

J. Miscella:ieous Comments
Ser aestieous <omments

Rocca said that he believed that the informant
referred to in the lersh article of bDecember 29, 1974, was
a fraud. we thinks tnat the informant must have been a
person fraudulently posiny as a former CIA agent because
the information contained in the article is, according
to Rocca, not only incorrect but does not even make sense
in the context of the CIA. Rocca could not elaborate on
exactly what he meant but strongly suggestea that we talk
to Bill hood, wao was formerly Chief of vomestic Operations

WOR SkCRLT TS?7POS27
LC C5 # /
74-0000

1

TOP SEURL'T

~ 4 =

Rocca says tnat he iad no particular discussions concerning
the project with eitner Angleton or hubbard which he can
recall.

In 1971 or 1972, however, Rocca nau to
“defend" the project to aaranessines. tnis was a part
of what constituted, in essence, an annual review by the
veputy Director of all significant projects in which CI
was involved. ‘the task fell to Rocca because Angleton
was then on vacation. lubbard and others involved
directly in the project prepared a pro forma justification
for Rocca to present to Karamessines. This was based on
the production of the project, as well as tne high
Security surrounding it.

In July, 1973, after nubbard had left, Rocca
and the JCI had determined to abanuon the mail intercept
project. Rocca was assigned to wind down the operation.
At that point, there were three or four CI people in
heauquarters involved in the project.* ‘he project was
located in the COMI area on the seventh floor. Because
COMINT needed the Space, Rocca developed a new vault for
it on the second floor with tie remainder of CI,
Mrs.[__ was reassigned -to- Operations, and the two
translators were assigned to R and A. ‘Tne product of
the project still remains in the vault area on the
second floor.

Rocca hau no knowledge of the specifics of the
Operation in New York, ‘this was because that aspect of
the project was handled by the Office of Security. In
essence, the Special Investigations group of CI was a
"customer" of the Office of Security. In addition, CI
analyzed the materials and distributed them to the
appropriate recipients. Angleton determined who would
receive the materials.

Rocca knew nothing of the wew Orleans
operation and almost nothing about tne San Francisco
Operation, «is only connection with the latter was
when people from, ae believes, tne Far ast operational
unit inquired of him avout the wew York Operation.
because Rocca knew little of the operation, he referred
tnem to Security.

7S ?§O527
OLECH HS

POP SeCRev
 

TOP SECRuT

- 5S +

F. vissivent, Uperation

Rocca knew nothing of tnis operation at tie
time it was establisned in 1967 except that he recalls’
having seen the memorandum wiich specified that informa~
tion relating to foreign contacts of uissidents in tiis
country would be ovtained and analyzed: ue recalls that
in about 1966-67 User who had been under kocca in R and aA
was assigned to Gperations. ‘inere he became the Referent
for the vomestic Operations vivision which had been
created in 1964. At that point, Ober left the CI area
On the second floor and established his own operation
somewhere else in the building.

When Rocca became Angleton's ueputy, the
project had already been established and was fundeu
through tne regular staff budget. Rocca never saw any
of the substance of the project. his only connection
with it was signing authorizations for expenses upon
Ober's request. Ober did not explain what the expenses
were for. YWhis was typical where, as here, the operation
was fully compartmented.

Althougn Rocca was generally in charge of
staff briefings on projects, ne did not brief on this
project. ‘ine briefing was done by Ober of any personnel
who naa the need to know.

Oper dealt uirectly with xaramessines or
helms on tnis project. ne uid not deal through Rocca,
nor, so far as Rocca knows, uid he deal tnrough Angleton.
Rocca said that this project was simply not within his
duties as a deputy, and that he did not exceed the scope
of his assignment as a deputy.

G. Police tiaisons
As far as Rocca knows, CI nas not had any
contact with any local police to the extent that such

contacts or liaisons would have occurred; this would
have been done by the Office of Security.

TS 7FOSA7
OLCCgH/

HOP SECRET
 

OP SeeRut

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefetier, David W. Belin,

Chairman . Executive Director
John T, Connor -

C. Douglas Dillon
Erwin N. Griswold
Lane Kirkland
Lyman L. Lemnitzer
Ronald Reagan
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

MLMORAWDUM TO FLLi
From: James 56. Weidner

Subject: Interview with Raymond G. Rocca,
February 14, 1975, 2 p.m.

A. BACKGROUND

Rocca is originally from San Francisco, and
he still maintains a home there. ie was graduated from
the University of California in 1938 with an Ak and in
1939 with an MA in international relations. this thesis
related to the facist problem in the Meditarranean area.

In April, 1942, he joined the Research and
vevelopment Section of the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence
Service. With the collapse of Italy in Septenber, 1943,
Rocca joined. the USS K2 group (which was independent
although coordinate with the counterintelligence OSS unit).

Until early July, 1944, when he went to Rome,
Angleton assumed command of the X2 unit in 1944. Rocca
eventually became Anyleton's executive aide there.

Angleton left Rome in November, 1947. Rocca
remained, under student cover. the was not under "official
cover.”

; Rocca returned to the United States and

stayed a year in CIA headquarters. ne attended the
wational War College in 1954-55. Rocca then joined
Angleton in the recently created Counterintelligence (CI)
Staff of tne CIA. (the Staff was set up in vecember,
1954 or early 1955. Prior to that time, the counter-
intelligence operation nad been submerged in foreign
intelligence. At this point, it was broken out to be

TS PF OS2P
VOP SECRot WeLy fe/

2Rrory
 

 

104-10150-10011
{

SSIFl

    

 

chen filled in form is detacheofrom controlled document.

ED when blonk—TOF RET when attached to Top Secret Docume

¥

    

 

utomaticelly downgraded

 

- CONTROL AND COVER SHEET F

rm will be placed on top, ‘t6-each’ Top. Secret. document received,
hin the. CIA and af ; Le d t until such time.as
4 rot personnel.and: th
¢ attached Top Secretmai
Si

   

5S

or deciassi-

 

 

am ao mn wot
74-0000

VOR SevRey

-~ 2-

an independent unit.) Rocca was assigned to be the chief
of the Research anu Analysis (& and A) component of the
CI Staff. tte remained in that capacity until 1969 when
he became Angleton's ueputy. ue resigned/retired from
the CIA on veceiber 31, 1974.

Be. OBJECTIVES OF COUNTLRINY cuLiGuuCch
a hd AN LOE hy

wne overall onjective of the Staff was to
form a uoctrinal vasis for Ul. secause CI nad not been
a separate unit theretofore, it was necessary to specify
precisely what its purpose and operational objectives
would be, ‘hese ovjectives were: (1) penetration of
other agencies; tnat is, identification of other agents
and achievement of placing otaer ayents therein; (2)
developing uouble ayents; (3) handling ucfectors,
principally those coming out of other services; (4)
development of types of controls; that is, intercepting
and deciphering of communications (Tne mail intercept
program would have fallen witnin this objective.); and
(5) accomplisiment of research. ‘this involved building
files, analyzing relevaut information, and creating
uescriptive papers.

C, OBbJeCTIVLS OP ReStARCh AND ANALYSIS

A. Research and Analysis

Inventoried initially, the status of
counterintelligence work being done by various of the CIA
Stations. This was necessary in order to determine the
scope of such activity taen in existence. iventually,
approximately 133 people were engaged in full-time CIA
work overseas.

B,. CYreation of Section 56 of the
wational Intelligence Survey

‘ais was commenced in 1950 and “finished” in
1955 insofar as tne Survey related to CI. The report,
however, is still being updated. ‘Yhis involved collection
of information from various branches of tne CIA's clan-
destine activities anu editing the information.

YOR SnCRiY TS 7 i OS o2 7
GLC CG /
74-0000

YOP SeCRe'e

- 3-

ee Providing Support to Casework

bxamples of this support were the arrest of
Sobel in the 1950's (R and A mace a inan available to work
on this case.) anu the Reino ihaynanen defection leading
to the conviction of Abel.

b., raining

R and A uoes part of the counterintelliygence
training.

Rocca gave me a detailed outline of the
organization of the CI vivision. A-schematic of that
organization is annexed nereto. ‘the organization retained
its structure until August, 1973, when its Operations were
reduced substantially. (According to Rocca, approximately
100 of the CI personnel were shifteu to other areas.)

&. Mailing Intercept Program

: Rocca knew notiiing of the program at all until
1960 when R anu A conmenced Yeceiving tnrough COMIn?
channels moderate amounts (no more than one or two pieces
a month) of descriptions or photograpnus. he could not
recall the particulars of any of these matters. He
assumed that tne entire project had been directed and
Properly approved. ‘lhe project was hanuled, insofar as
CI was involved, by the Special investigations group.
it was nighly compartmented. When Rocca became Angleton's
deputy in 1969, he learneu more concerning the existence
of the project. ic understood tnat it was a special
project prouucing niyh-yrade information on the main
adversary. Rocca saiu that he would classify the project
as a "Strategic significance" because it yielded information
on individuals communicating witn people working for the
KGB. tie could not recall specific details. Particularly
important, in his Opinion, was the fact that the adversary
did not know tnat the project existed.

Rocca was not responsible on a day~to-day
basis for the project even after he became ueputy. ‘That
responsibility was given to Fred uubbard, Angleton's
bxecutive virector, whom I believe had been appointed at
approximately tne same time as Rocca, Monthly reports
from the project would come to Rocca at which time he
reviewed them briefly and passed tacm on to Angleton,

TS GOS2-7
TOP SECRET OLE Caw)
