 

 

 

arora

 

ee setbpancte« toabate erat arene ns tenn

 

 

 

SE gpppee

‘he He. Padtoy daked the Cuben if hia group frit they had oral
support of the U. 3. end tha Cuben replied that they wonted-U, Be
moral support but whether they hed it oF not, they felt they. were
obliged 20 ¢arry through with their plong. Fr. Prwley said ba’ aidnte
know whet to tell him «= would hove to think @buut it od gee tf anye
Ghing could be dons. Hoe said, *heving been connected with the U. Be
Godjernnent,-I ean't get involved in revolutionary movenonte”. Aloo
gedd he would hata to ae tho. Powiiniaan Government got involved,
tiich might be ALE ficult %o avoid with ao many Cuban oxileg there,
tat cemented that ho wriersteed "the Doniniean Government heen! t

_ given then a dime’.

Harthe Tharpe
WR/TIT/CARTB

  

SECRET

 

 
(toe tos-t0rte

 

 

 

"90 cetoter 1989

MAMORANDUM FOR THE RuOURD

SUBUILOR, Hi shlishta of Tape-Reborded Gonvé:aation in ocd Betwoen
Rr, William Db, Powley and an Unidentified Cuban during

Poriod L713 Ostober

1e On %) Ostobur the undersigned and ef HH/3
fatened to the play-back of 3 tense, brought to Washington from Miard
and given te Colonel King by Pr. Fawley on 19 October, which was 4
recording of Mr. Pawley's conversations with two Gubang during the
period 17018 Oetober, The flrat converastion vas with on unidentified
Cuban, belleved to bo 9 memoer of a group of wealthy anti—CASTHO Cubsna,
Renbore of whioh have talked to Mr, Pawlay recently about their
plang ror gabotaya of the coming aucar harvest a8 reported in UbWA]32
dated 2 October. The second Cuban waa AKPACA-1l, a Cuban journplist
ef opsrational interest to Btation Habana, and & separate memorandum
is submitted on that conversation. :

» B- Tho unidentified Cuban, who had somewhat of an accent and
opoke indlatinetlv, wea difficult to understend. ‘Ho mentioned a
uonting "with somo of our people who came up from Cuba” to disouse
plane, He eaid hie proup had been contactéd by & representative of
General Jono Blouterie PRDRATA, leadar sf Cuban revolutionary groups —
in tho Dominioan Republic, who wonted te know what action their group -
bod taken and was told that they had © plam “to start sabotere", The
Cuban said the PEDRACA ropreventative eaid thair proup (tha PEDRAZA
group) had four provinces organised in Cuba, nentioning Comaguey and:
Santa Clara, and that they hed two provinces yet to be organi ved mo

Usbana and Matendas.

- 3. The Cuban eaid his group noedod two things © more] backing
and noneyg he pointed cut that Cubans in Guba are afraid to start an
underground movement, and there wag no way to raise funds, ote. Myre
Pavley yave him no encouragement on the money angle, saying that even
if there were Americana willing to rug the risk of. becoming involved
in Cuban revolutionery sotivitics by furnialing money for auch 8 ©
Bovenent, whieh he doubted, he felt that at the present time 1% would
be like “putting soney down a rat~-hole" for the following reasonas -
(1) thers is no unity among the anti-CASTRO groups, and there are et
least 10 that he knows of who are working absolutely independently of
@ne anothers snd (2) CASTRO ig.in control of the country and hes the

, support of a larre.numper of Cubana, especially the under=prtvileged,

Hr, Powley said he felt the Cuban economic situation was worsening
fust and that if it gets bad enough, a large number of Cubang will
turn on CASTRO; but until that time comes it would be dangerous to

try to organise a revolutionary movements

SECRET

 
