74-00000

cep wepenee esces bo. ere new ks, we uaae
. — 1yese
ne aan
“SRCRBE .
iso Fao ¢9200. A)77o7- 2. . on BB-3309.
SUBTLTs Contacts in Spain. ; 18 Ray 656

LOURCES Con3Y. AME RAG Ht
Rove EE-31336
Following fe a transcription of the letter received by Kizuel
Ae de LEQ’ Rojas, aka “Cuco* Loc, from ‘Carioa Jorge ROBRBLO
Mardegues who is in Spains
} “3 May 1965.
"priend Cusos. 4
*x om vriting thaze “Lines: from Orense whore 3 cara to sperd
@ few csys together with Sasi who is stilt working here. (20u15.n's
wite, who is an artist, is working in Orenso.) -
; . *pirst of alle-although Z imagine you already know it becerse ~
1 - PYberto (Alberto Lino BIASCO Redxiguez) teld me he would cell you .
- $rom Poxrds, let me tell you that Monty (wonty te José tule GIS LSZ
Gellerreta sho was recalled to Cuba) had no-problens when ho azrived
: in Bavens, which means that for the tine being there are no problens
-and that there have been no leske. _ ne rents
"On the first fist of May2/ I waited for soma oft the things watch
“hed been planned te take placs, but they G14 not. However, £ uncerstand
that the Doainican prebles might have affected both those on tha insice
and those on the cutslée, thoze on the outside on account of the supsre
.. vigilance vhich must have been established, enf those on the inside an "©
~ geeount of the general alert or restriction to quarters orcored 29 6
- peeventive measure and which makes any typo ef movement impossible.
_ RB have complete and very datercating ceport® om all that. Appareathys ;
; luck is not very much with us, But as long an it does not abescon us
| ~ completely we will surely attain our objectives. EZhave very = -
:; ° imtecesting things in my hands, received through our best sliics en
| th 4ns ide through the channels which you deady know eo wall. -
: “Regarding the *¢grfonte® {as you call thea), I hope the posialcan —
affair wilt wake them up @ bit and that they will seo their eaneny is .-
: pot an Viet Ham but sight under their noses. They might thin: that - >!
- the Dosinican affaix has been a victory for them) it might be so, but - =
Pyrrhic victory. I éon't say this as eriticisn of thelr actions inf
Santo Doainge because, in tha end, it wee the only thing which they 4

      

   
 
 
 
    

    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4
=
4

 
 

could 60 because that thing would surely have feller inte Connunist /
" “hatha: -F Elalli Lied 4

 
 

"  Chieg of Station, Madrid

  
  
 

a 3
: a i
ttre, e

| Caisparen

ALAS |

 

      

Action Reauired: Hens. Jer Your Inforsetica.
Reference: MADR-4843, 11 June 1968

Yorvarded unésr eeperete cover fer addrexeces’ informatian
fe ABOT report EB-3509, 18 Rey 1965, whteh ecatains a trenalation
of @ letter dated & Bay 19058 frome AMLASE-& te “Cros” LEON, which
waa SFevided to AECRAG-1 by LEOH, Tes let

#ituation is the Dosintean Bepablic, but there is mpation of
QUuOPE~1'a recall te Cuba fad the fae

apoa his arrival ia

*

 
74-0000

 

—_ . 8 a

. SECRES : .
B2-3309, C-300, 18 Ray 63 (cont.)
~ . hands, But the thing is te prevent thoee conditions trom being
crented, a3 no ene can win even Lf there is ietervention, And te
. think that they closed the doora to us for the txip in which wo
would have been ao useful and would have umcoversd all the true
" plotters of the Americas, Well, 2 hope that at least this vill
help te open thaee of the ‘friends’ ang that their infalithie
COMPANY will be able te tell Spart those who can really help than
in thede struggle in the Rezlaphare-—as allies, not as enployees~<
and these othere whe slain to Cooperate with them hut who ealy make
& itving out ef thau and cannot help then because thay don't have
anything, as you know that they are sean with centenpt by the real
men who have things to fight with and whe aze willing to de it next
to thon. Ploane forgive this renhling, hut Z had to get it off ay
chast. You understand thiags well ond we have analogous ideas
sbout the things of cuba. That ds why £ chose you. ot
"Woll, Cuquite, give an embrace to K for no and tell him that
everything will alwaya continue to be the same for our side and that,
_, in fact, wa have never been eloser ta the and. 2 hopa to see you
"800% ox to hear grom you, Reccive an exhease from your friend,

y

 

Oth, by necessity, due to things which X am expecting tron our
country. ® wot : ‘lee. .

 

; os . ag ot . - *ga2g0 - : a ~
"B.S. waite to me to Mecria because ¥ have te be back thare on the

te

ve

soameantinestanaiemt een iadad ck cote tateminamareen ee :

   

 

— tattered plan rennin “NT ff LTTE —apureecemureweenee ens
ceeretceeeennreenstemee Tee emerenare eae nnn one
SecA Neher
