 

not as much money as she would like. I believe she wants

 

 

 

  

17 February 1972
SUBJECT: Mrs. Susan Warren aka Susan Frank

Susan is a tough cookie. One of her most outstanding
features is a complete lack of interest - in anyone but her-
self. When.leading.a China study class this is her method:

. first she asks a question, from her notes, such as “What
do you think Mao meant when he said this..." Then she
clamly listens to what the class thinks Mao menat. When
everyone finishes Susan begins to tell exactly what he
meant to say. Through the evening her attitude remains
the same "I've been here before and said this before."
There, is no enthusiasm in her that T could see. :

; - Susan is an expert on China. I know because she - told

me. She told everyone else too within the first eight

. minutes of class. ‘Well, I spoke to those soldiers in .. ;
_Yunan who fired on those *peasants..." But she really didn't
have to advertize her knowledge because it is very apparent.

She has a solid understanding of Chinese ‘political line and_

can smoothly defend Chinese history.

’ As ‘far as the woman herself is "concerned she has

to dress in 'style.* Now, although dressing conservatively.

she still developes an eye for color and she would clearly ee

be receptive to intelligent male attention. She has a-

. nice > figure and is aware of it. -

; Perhaps the clue which best typifies Susant s personality
‘is her voice... It is deep, slow, even and artificially
cultured. For example, My tgtt become td" in “veddy" or

oo" “Amedica'. a, oo ee

vie -Her hand | movements when she speaks are measured and
deliberate. While Ustening she > fidgits a little but not
- much. oo . : aoe

Two noticible features are her thumbnails. Both. are ~
‘filed ‘almost to points, are very thick and yellowish-
moreso” than other nails. . :

. While she is concerned with herself I believe she—
' would follow someone who either interested her or gently ©

repent te airs eemeewnane een on crn nama oer omen serge -eten hares co sen qgnersee

 
 

~~ ae

 

 

 

 

led her. There is a part of her normally conservative

- character that would like to break away and 1 try new things
| Githel not new ideas in politics.)

“One last remark, she is.a straightforward person;

ill look you in the eye, will tell someone not to speak

too tong: if she wants to move on to something else.

a ; These observations were made after oné meeting in oO
~ @ a study class and for a few minutes before class.

 

 

§
i

 

 
 

 

_” EX-9816
1 March 1972

  
 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Contact Report of Neetings with (WPTROIKA-7_in
New York City on 14 February and in Virginia on
17-18 February 1972 .

a. This memorandum covers recent. meetings with
iWPTROIKA- 7 in New York City and in the Northern Virginia
area. The meetings were héld under secure conditions and
‘there were no security incidents noted.

'2. Operational:

 
 
 
 

   

i[j7's persistent efforts to locate
join a pro-Mao Study group finally paid off. The manager
of the China Bookstore finally broke down under M7's
-:; campaign and put her in touch with a local USCFA study
a oup under the Jeadership of_Mrs._Susan Warren, aka Frank.
. fio? has attended one session and, based.o6n her initial ;
_ observation, provided the assessment of Mrs. Warren attached
hereto at the undersigned's request. (M7 believes she has
hit it off with Mrs. Warren because of her understanding ;
of dialectics (thanks to Andy Ness's tutoring) and, consequently,
she was instructed to attempt to develop a social-business _
. _-.. velationship with her. With respect to the other members
' ---. o£ the study group, (M-/7 claims that the situation, to date,
“s:, has not been conducive to ferreting: out the identities of ~
these individuals, but. that she hopes that as the group
continues to meet, ‘Some rapport will be established with her
classmates... . . re

 

 

oN : ba New School and language instruction: 7

has formally enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New
School for Social Research in a.course entitled “Comparative
Legal Systems," which studies the theories, institutions,
concepts, customs and which purports to analyze and compare
the law and the administration of law in selected countries,
included China,-Japan, Vietnam, Germany, the U.S. and the
Soviet Union. {M7 will also enroll in.a French language
instruction course in the near future.

oe Sold

cma yt

Gd. see

 
 

104-10063-10438

(J unctassirico ©] MERA, Conripentiat "Gi. secre
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET ) )

SUBJECT: (Optional)

CI/SO Summary ©N: Contact Report with {MPYROIKA-7

FROM; EXTENSION | NO,
- _ py.9816 - -
. a . S847 OATE : . .
c/c1/SO : 1 March: 1972
TO: {Officer designatiau, room number, ond ..- - . -
building) : OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from wh .

* INITIALS to whom. Draw a line cross column after each comme:

C1/S0 Interzaj Use Only
‘This information is not to |
disseminated outside CI/SO
without prior approval of
Chief, Special Operations ©
Group, CI Staff. ;

Originated by: W. E. Gavaghe
TYPED by “_—sFE/OPS'

Based on: ne
,Doc: ae
Date: .

Filed:

 

SOURCE: ee
Cryptonym:MPTROIKA-7  -

Field ‘Station, . ae

ACTION: — ON

 

“>

  

DISTRIBUTION: :
ZXTEX NUMERICAL FILE (recoré

TT Subject file mprRorKa-7/
bal ROTKS
ZT Other: re
9G
INDEXING: - ;

XP by date |S, ! 3/2:

 
14-00000 :

    

 

 

 

 

Lo, c. Ramparts' Tours - New York Media Workshop's
' Womens' Tour: “Acting on a suggestion proposed by Mr. Jason

Horn, CI/SO0, the undersigned raised the subject of the Women's
Tour which is scheduled to visit London, Paris (where they
will meet the DRV peace delegation) and Rome from 27 May ~

~; 25 June 1972 with (M-7 and instructed her to attempt to determine.

the interest in, and likely composition of, the New York
group and explore tke possibility of joining such a group
and explore the possibility of joining such a group. (M-77's

| £irst reaction tothe tour was that the cost ($699, which -

 

“. Amcluded on the tour.

 

Committee, Box 59, Loeb Student Center, 566. LaGuardia Place,
. N.¥.C.
i for this mimeographed new

- hereto. - One of (M37's articles will appear in a subsequent

 

price includes airfare, trains, hotels, etc.) was too high.

_' It was explained to her that the cost factor should not
- deter her from following through. It was then that [M-/7

voiced some concern that the timing of the tour may interfere
with her own PCS departure (we had been talking in terms of
mid-May or June 1972 up to this point). It was made clear

“to her that no fixed date has been established as yet for
‘her PCS departure and that the aforementioned tour may well

prove to be .of operational interest, e.g. meeting the DRV
delegation and continuing the staging process prior to her
actual departure. (N-7 said that she understood and would
look into the matter. She did not believe she would have
any difficulty in covering for funds should she find herself

ut out w York Uni

gy ‘South East_Asia Reports (SEAR): (M7 produced *
' a copy of the first issue of SEAR, a bi-weekly newsletter
by the N . Stud iiobili = ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10003. (Ma7'f

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

left publication. A copy of this first issue is attached

issue of SEAR. on

os JBMINIMUM Testing and Training: As part of
 (M-7's covert training and assessment in anticipation of her

foreign assignment, the undersigned arranged for two members
of the Psychological Assessment Branch, TSD (Messrs. DeMarco.
and Saunders) to administer a JBMINIMUM test to her and to

os brief her in the use and value of the JBMINIMUM test in a

field situation. This training and briefing took place on.

18 February in a safehouse in N, Arlington, Va. (A copy

of the JBMINIMUM assessment on(N-7 will be made a matter of
record in her official dossier). {MJ7 was introduced as

“Miss Julie" to members of the PAB/TSD for purpose of this

test and briefing. (Mr. Andy Ness devoted the afternoon of ;
18 February with M37 for the purpose of continuing her training

2

 

sa one Ay

wes Beas anetn
14-00000

 

 

 

, is Presently working on this. message. d.

 

Attachments

 

  

in dialectics, which she has found to be particularly useful
in understanding the study group discussion and to permit
her participation. ) .

oe eon ee

 

“le, Administrative:

=e

co a. Salary and Operatignal Advances. The undersigned
; paia(ien her January salary on a $500 advance on 17 February _

1972. She also received:a $300 advance on 14 February 1972.
These advances were necessary because of the expetises
had incurred in enrolling at the New School and to pay for

_.. her French lessons. (One of the reasons (M37 was brought down |

to the Washington area was to straighten out a problem

“! she was having with her accounting. Hopefully, she is now
‘convinced that she had been receiving all that was due her. -

b. “Tax Administration and Notification of Personnel

oa Action. (M37 was notified of the change in the tax assessment
.. and of the adjustments in her salary due to the legislative |
“ov pay increase and the withholding of premiums for _ hospitaliza-
~ tion. . ,

/ 3. Actions to_be taken.

 

oe" ay (MS's assignment abroad. Per the undérsigned's
discussions with Messrs. Fiitcroftt and a telepouch

dispatch will be sent-to Station proposing (M57's

.. assignment to Bangkok, primarily for housekeeping purposes,

but with a regional mission to perforn. . (The undersigned

“bs Concelament device. (7 requested a conceal-.

. ment “Gevice for her microdot viewer which the undersigned will
| attempt to obtain from TSD. : Additionally, the undersigned
: will request TSD to provide. concealment devices for M-7's

general use as a storage for papers and funds.

Kl

ne -- William BE. Gav,
- ne es FE/OPS

  

; .As stated
