74-0000

 

2

S008 8 Tes ee ors, Peay
LEAS SE

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

amount: O92, 843/000 furs |

ea -Covtrs epayeiiong: TN ta

42 be Srovidsd, at orate .
‘She  jeciives. vere eohiaveg.  -

  

-- — SO <anggetigyone = ing * 7
_ Sbenlvts sevtres or chs Gauraiiaa,” Tisturitaing ehied

Soe ae,

oe paling jot? SIDERED to bn tha HP view that tts podition should

be pmnlapers to thet of @ % Soieevile Wiieh han bn reccanined .

a tle rigzifel regins of ite eamuy.. Sua the alam bates thats a
Tosser wlth the Soviets willing tO egEat wwe shoald

ewtraliah high-level cartect viich will male ¢ pegaiule to dtacuss.

. = Z . € °
the wperation of aerial aupaly erat (tras tua besas), tho training ant
ini lteasion of ¥/'s qparetons ma intelligence agerte, migpars of iotemal
gerrrllias, ond tha training e¢ Sight oF tes 1s grea fer imtrofustiaa
Jato Caza at the rlett tise,’ {There 19 size ctisdéeradla stress givea te
the aewettiag of extancive persholeetosl.wartsre). che NG Blaz vould pose
Baay of tha problens that aay PK program’ gor’ oo Os vases, where, hay, ad
bow ies qoertian Ubratved an Precurlog and oersting ety asd met tice
beson exh the policy Gestion reiating te setionds vAled Instade pabetegs
and activo resistance. nn

SECTET

 
104-40193-10009

 

ae . SEGEET

 

__FRERAN PR) dot, wa/h,
Sayer : Commate on 7 Plas far Anti-Cartro Qprrations

k. Fhe Morinterto Bevolwetaurio del Pablo (mM?) hea suteittet
& plas fer tht soxhws of arti-Castro cperctions. “he origi] wae
yoosivad fros the }K? Chief, Mumeal Autento Puy y Rivery, is ant
2 17 Jus 16d) ano copy of 1% hawearvial to Syatgiortars ta
iy ewe 1K. 33 is a aderrtomiing thet certeta (he ea wre) Pel)
@lesarte {nu the United Sintes Gorarseant vidy ths Pay plen with Prrer,

are! eae She eee Sect

Peeling sa tbs “taba” in we ed oe isterakica aA the me Lutnies

  
 
 
  

am tha HRP ylim. stteckad are
formerly of this Ssctiae, med
 pererhl gevbers. of tha Wa/5/ ». Peonsorry 6 was ewnmittwed by
Hr. Dawe Feillice, Cater, wiya/proyasuntan I edatst add tint no ons

ia in spreumst with the ostive popwy, Fr all ageos, mimes, with
the comlugios thst the pind, 98 maleittiad, ia not aoe sas siled
mere fee thig or ony ether U. 8. Gevarremt ageczy. We see Little
oerace for a resg¢coabla fuiewa Tor G55, uultes meal contrat By 239
Provider af tho wats is Bills into the phen. .

Foberh 8, Hoare
Ceisr, ea/a/en

Dietrivatioar
Grigteal 31 + Adtrovaee

0

 
 

 

 

Ba to EP escts 9 epecnts 0 & ea eget ¢ fost ng vith the prortsara

tecisiag ;
es be treated ao equate by tka U. 6. Gorerment, there U8 He proredaat fur

extenling gach trentaat lo 4 private cygualzatios. {9 do 60 in this eas
‘would miselt fo the smmuiag of the bitter eeaity of: tha exti-Tsy resistases

waoua, of which there are may, vithout, sBy earrespemiiag banst$.

“@ ihe “tee” Sree NT gparntt cay vould pot best ty f she
ourisagy’, Te Mv “tale”, 3 tata, baibad ie tatelingeseg ap 1a railstecee
aeilvliy, bas been oogligihis. There ww usuy Besa glories wilad refer to .
the. MiP as the Largest ani bess oremizead of the reolsiancd gry. The KEP
plen clains ergenicution dam 49 the township lemal and states thet

"Sho MO? bez an cxwesdive comuntession net aut ig ompetect ta
visatning tatisyensihie elements of intalligemss.

‘Tels wey ve 26, tat v9, axe net seeire of say exuicetve valid
Loformat ion free the FAP ef acy tapartan? reaistams eetivity sayinetieg
vy thes. {he entire Alsters ef sgepey operations tavalviag grouse Beceast
the inmivigebility of hasting wer exibgiastial eum in the hope of a Suture

Aan we

  

 
14-00000

 

: te : oo . Be . . . aa a "

 

wy 7 “Rene. Agthe frsm certaie cured Matew evrumesetis, dur “texe” fe tote : i
- Ay secs. oarvizg Ger Or Airetion, regariicos of tho gruxps to vbld: Uwy ot : :
| cee Ted . ; . Bt . °
nm potuted out, that fram a political evetdpstat, thy: 7 :

       

pebfticcl ond yrwagts terse, Lf Rak be, wills ether wile garage, aha
tan yous of Obes poultive proms ef sortal dad odtaete ‘verona. ,(Moethear
euch | yroers voolk be ¢ ‘tole with U. 2. dutereste ts,i.eo ecuras, © |
mater of math cextrevsray+) _ . . oo

97 ta ecnotestan, we dalsone tks? the MP plaa ie warchiletic oad
vaworthy of further. coarltecet ion ia ite preasct form, Ve tpn eso any
poalbility of gacuring & reveals sytem for may 4 by thig plas

tesloee real -ooatrol by the provider of the fusig te agened ty by Bll oak
. q Ca

 

¢
F

   
