13-00000

  

 

sident kennedy, We know of.no information in our
files to substantiate that allegation.

‘Miva-z, is a former chief of the Cuban Rebel
Air.Fotee. le is not ner is there any record that he
-has ever teen an Agency asset, although he could have
‘been debriefed by us after he left Cuba.

 

 

2 saployee oF this. Agehey

5; The above information: may be passed in part or
in its entirety to the House Select Committee on Assas-
sinations. ‘The FBI has already been informed of the
Significant details in this matter.

/s/ George V. Vauder
Raymond A. Warren

_v00/t4/c00/cr08__— pos a November 1977, X9194).

' a Distribution: cat
ql . Orig § 1 - Addressee . : ;
; 1 - LA/COG/Chrono

®- C/LAD -

‘I - Originator
ce _ 1 + SA/ADDO (Bénson Grayson)

1 - IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge

1 - Hold. .

 

 

 
 

AO410438-1014IF-—-- -

 

 

 

 

mm, “/\
SHE CRE
. LA/COG/258-77
3 - NOV 1977
" MENURANDLM FOR: Office of the Legislative Counsel
VIA 0 00. -SA/ADDO
* FROM Raymond A. Warren
‘ Chief, Latin America Division
SUBJECT a t. Allegation by a-Senior Cuban Diplomat:

Concerning thé Role of Cuban Exiles in
-the Assassination of President Kennedy

1... According to a fairly reliable source, a senior
Cuban diplomat stationed abroad made certain charges in
late September 1977 concerning the alleged role of Cuban
exiles in the assassination of. President John F.. Kennedy.
This diplomat made these allegations to his colleagues
in the course.of an official meeting in his embassy. The

‘diplomat said, among other-things, ‘that Cuban exiles

such as former Cuban Air Force officer D i az Lan (fnu)
and others had been involved in the assassination of
President Kennedy. The diplomat referred to the assas-
Sination in the context of a security lecture in which

he claimed that counter-revolutionary activities by Cuban
exiles have increased in recent months. He said that
recent information had arrived implicating D i az in the
Kennedy assassination. The diplomat did not mention any

other Cuban exiles by name or provide any further details,

He did not identify the source of his information, although
our scouree had the impression that the diateutatts atlega
tions were based on a recent cable from the Cuban Ministry
of Foreign Affairs. |

2. This division has no other factual information
concerning the diplomat's allegations, We believe that
the basis for the. diplomat's statement was, probably, an
article which appeared in the New York "Daily News" on

°20 September 1977, This article quoted Maritza

Lorenz as saying that she, Orlando Boas ch, Frank
S turgaiis, Pedro DP t az Lanz, two unnamed Cuban

., exile brothers and Lee Harvey oO s wea ld forued

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

po s ECRET E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 012034

 

 
