14-00000

anyone in.Cuba and therefore Qs

SECRET

for the Soviet Union, and now he (the y does not know what to
do with him (the American), becaus ave to wait for an answer

from Washington.

|
i
!

   
 

Silvia DURAN agr em exists with the Cubans,

that the problem with | ) is that he does not know

 

at is true it will be difficult
for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he was thinking of proces
sing his visa (for the Soviet Union), because he knew it would :
require waiting a Jong time for his visa to the Soviet Union while
in Cuba, and from there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet.said

the thing is that if his wife right now were in Washington she
would receive her visa right, now, or permission, from the Soviet
Union, to return to her country, she is going to receive her visa in

Washington but having this visa, she could communicate to any place
this permission, for example here ae she could receive it
(visa or permission), but right do not have them.

"YE Weive a letter either

be approved. The Soviet

    
   

Silvia DURAN says certain]
because they do not kn
says he cannot give a er mendation either because he
does not know him (the Her and asks to be excused for
bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is al right and many thanks.

c. 28 September 3963 Saturda ), 1751 hours Mexico City time.

 

Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET
- ognce88

: * PACE: 98 of;
_ copy 0. _

 
14-00000

-I'11 be there right away. 3 KS

SECRET

Soviet. She says that in the Cuban there is a North

   
   
    

TheSoviet says wait a

AS one--and comments in

14-12-99 and to take the

American who was at the Soviet
minute. Silvia DURAN speaks
Spanish that they gave AP.

number down--Si Ivia’ DI e Anerican citizen is going |

en
to talk with you, i.e., the XS The Anerican first speaks

Russian and the Soviet: speaks English. ‘They continue in English.

The American talks broken Russian and says I was in your Embassy and

spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and
asks the American in English what does he want? The American says
please speak Russian. The Soviet says what else do you want? The

American says I was just now at your Embassy and they took my

address. The Soviet says I know that. The Anerican, in hardly

recognizable Russian, says I did not. know it then. I went to the

Cuban Embassy to ask them. for my address, because they have it.

The Soviet says why don't you come again aod leave your address ~ .
with us, it is not. far from the Cuba &. The American says

 

 

 

 
14-00000

SECRET

S

a <
Silvia DURAN explains the same thing . This man says to

leave a name and telephone nate RS call back.

Silvia DURAN gives the mee ~ 28: an Consulate).

She also takes advantag &
moved and wants to advo .& bassy of her change of ;

se
address so that she can receiveYthe Soviet Embassy's Bulletin.

 
 

ton and states she has

The man says to call KOUKHARENKO. to give her new address, then he
asks the name of the Consul or Cultural Attache. Silvia DURAN says
the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number is 14-13-26.

The man says thanks.

b. 27 September 1963 Frida » 1626 hours Mexico Cit time.

 

An unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks
A .
Silvia DURAN if the American had been there. Silvia DURAN says he

is there now. The Soviet says the Anerican showed papers from the

Consulate | in Washington, that he wants o to the Soviet Union :

and be there for a Tong time with > who is Russian, but |
on yr to ‘this problem,

ta ror five months, but
YY.

Jet Union they should ask, or

 
 
    
 

the answer has not come fron
and according to this &
without having peri GY x S
better said, they cannot a visa there without asking . Washi ng-
ton. However, according to this man, he showed a letter indicating
he was a member of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the

Cubans said ‘that they cannot issue-a visa without his. having a visa

SECRET | aR

 
14-00000

SECRET

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of Re Ne City Stay

14. One additional crenens @ peg e st be stipulated now as

  
   

the Final precondition to u
of the photo of the unknown. ivié 2 aced in the chain of evidence. ,
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Age®t Bardwell ODUM: what was the

totality of CIA Mexico! s coverage of OSWALD's activity as. of the after- :

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.

 

Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban

’ Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia pores telis the man that the
American citizen was there, ‘the one AW ts a visa for Cuba on

his. way to the Soviet Union, and o know with whom he was

   

talking there because she SC AN BUR sent him to the Soviet

and gave him a visa, then

 

the Cubans (Embassy) eal oN him a visa without further
paper work, only advising 1

says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says

tion in Cuba. The American, she

he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet ,

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET

-guo288h.

19
: PACE 36 of 3

COPY NO. et

 
14-00000

a photo of OSWALD. A careful review Q& coy
-as well as photographic, of ee S e
conducted by the Station on RX a Kd

SECRET.

10. At no time during his stay in M

        
 

tion, going back veneer yom: WN 963.

S:

n Eabfsstes was

4
;
i
|

ity did the CIA acquire

1963 after! jthe” as sass ina~

It is, therefore, firm”

voice intercept,

that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any tine during his

Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a

in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters-Which aid not

have one either--before 22 Novenber 1963.

Me ants This intensive 1 review of “vote intercept transcripts

by the monitor and other personnel on the basis.of the 1 October inter-

cept--which had been reported ‘to. Headquarters. and disseminated to the

interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Mar ine OSWALD

cabled request on 15 October, the. Mexico Station had no phioto of OSWALD

Agreement , and potential Ty

was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimit i
-of interest to the Department of Stat ed up matches! based ‘on

 

{
S?cant element because! of the

memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

1 v
tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET.
14-00000

om

data with descriptive information KA

‘collateral source--a photogr,

SECRET

   

12 It must be stressed that oe and photographic
0

coverage was not (and normally is

 
 
  
  

in “real time." The

  

ormation precludes anything
the monitor to be of more than
b \ in summary logs. Full texts of
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage ‘tends to becote
available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day “peaks.” One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of

a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 7 October with the Soviet Embassy , during which the speaker said
he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to
Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963:

13.. The Mexico ‘Station did one more in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October | ercepts: it coupled the

a: ‘sensi ti ve

  
   

   
 

i

0
SS idual, apparently an

 

Rs

American, who was observ Soviet Embassy on 1 October. ° :
‘The Station reported this detai @ 8th as a matter of coincident

fact. The Station-did not assert or “suggest that the data. deduced from

the photo was in. fact OSWALD, “or indeed , was-in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

PAGE

 

95

. COPY NO.

 

2319
14-00000

SECRET

'
sensitive intelligence operation bei PA October 1963 by the

 

 

CIA and n page oviet ahd Cuban
& < ;

Embassies in Mexico City.

< |
3. Under the extraordin S&S ef fort to develop inf ormati on
on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were °

made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day,

‘assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by

an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache | to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible usevin the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dai tas on the
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. out

i
4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364- 365 and 667 (Attachment B) “wor resulted in :

d been shonin a cropped

   
  
  

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD' s sTegation ER
photo of Jack RUBY- the day before ae son. a further
RN on was the! fact that
XS
\S

before the Commission, it

a slightly different manner. )
5. No detail in the Warren Commission report iMustrates 1 more’

vividly than this one ‘the difficulties that beset simple truth in 1 the
| .

t
a

: t

2 Coe det
. ‘
it

SECRET -

1. page

gi.

COPY NO.

 

 
104-10086-10288},

Pomme

 

SECRET

2 nay 1975
So & npr
SUBJECT : The Photo of an me foun in the Warren

. Commission Report: O logical, Survey |

  
  
  

REFERENCE: Memorandum by Da e@ EN r. Ey Harry knoche,
15 April 197 mee

a.

1. Reference memorandum suggests jt would be appropriate to :

a
reconsider full disclosure at this time of the ci rcumstances and factual
data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a
realistic evaluation ) of the suggestion, ,

i
Background — : oe. os Ot :

2. This examination and summary of the record, concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as arren Commission) and

io

Wy The photograph

(together with others of the same 1 RNS
AWS

QS S ,

1 See Hearings Before the Pesid VS on the Assassination

of President Kennedy (hereinafter chted as Hearings), Vol = XX; p. 697. .

    
 

introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibj

jnated from a highly

1
i

       
 

  
 

4
t
'
i

SECRET

1 0... PAGE

go

ho. COPY NO.

of -

 

 

319
14-00000 — . |

 

boon : . SECRET

i

‘politicized, rigidly deterministic int AS climate that has been
nurtured by the media over the pa he . Kennedy Assassina-
tion. The photograph, eS Oe ft RUBY, has continued to
Ppreoccupy "specialists" a 2 LY. centerpiece of another : ; |
hypothesis that holds OSWAL to QE "framed" by the | [se of a . oo.

double in his activity in eis City.2

Lee Harve OSWALD - Re ortin on n Mexico Cit Sta

 

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to the moriing of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
C originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by
the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with . |

the information it developed about OSWALD < xico City, together with

Headquarters action on. that ae

 

7. From all credible aK GY tine (none, incidentally,
added since the a ey Warren Conmis sion),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent s and two (2) ) partial days-- |

about 116 hours in acing exioxy ity from about 10:00 a -mi 27 September

{

 

 

Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man who Was Not
i
( of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A). i

3
SECRET 4

: | pags G2 oe 31.9

“4 *- QOPY NO.
it : .

 
14-00000

( re
SECRET
. N
1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. ace of residence was a
small commercial traveler hotel, no RS "gringos"~-the
Hotel Commercio--where he was re ~) d jas. Exhaustive and
S i
detailed interviews and int on exican authorities and :

  
 

the FBI, after the a&sassinadien, hed that in the récollection of

all hotel personnel he left early

8. Assuming, and allowing for the ‘fact of late arrival and early
departure, that he Slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

agent) coverage!

 

Le

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense "under investi-

gation.” None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and

    

return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were Kae Station files
before 10 October 1963, when the bare Ses

a NOH cabled report of -

  

his biography were

      

forwarded by Headquarters in resi
8 October which had mes
a contact by an American XS vi

was indicated and deduced from Qh cally acquired information on

SS)

    

1 Octobér, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD.
identified. himself (partially) by true name.

1

aod returned late each day of his stay.

770 Wy what appeared to be
ain transit to the USSR. This

SECRET . i !
, : em aA
gQuece

7 19

PAGE 33 oe SLY

 
