 

cs iP oe
. EVES GY

and various years. ‘of imprisonment, -He seemed cone
sistently sensitive to correctional labor camps

as the type of prison, and to several possible
causes of imprisonments particularly homosomality,
desertion and felony. Interestingly enough he was
not sensitive te questions concerning imprisonment
for self-inflicted wounds despite his story that he
had shot himself in the hand during the war. He
seemed more consistently sensitive to Siberia as

the area of imprisonment but the results were not

as clear as on other aspects of hia story. He seems
particularly sensitive to the years 1954-1956, which
immediately preceed the period from 1956 onward,
when he began to appear in KGB operations.

TOP SECRET
“VES Git

ale

AR ne OCR RR et a oe
 

ee anne nsec rary ameter nee teem er

 

earlier, that he has spent tine in prison and that he is
not in fact a KGB officer) similarly, his stories of his
early school and military service are inconsistent and
unbelievable. We are trying in this interrogation to
clarify this important point. Among the points covered
so far are the followings

a Identity: NCSENKO was questioned extensively
on the polygraph concerning his ide:tity. In one
series of tests, for exeuple, he was asked whether.
Minister of Shipbuilding Ivan NOSENKO was the father
of Yuri Ivanovich NOSEYKO and was then asked whether
Minister NOSENKO was his father; similarly with
Tamara UWOSLAKO, his ostensible mother. NCSENKO did
not react to the question phrased “Yuri Ivanovich
HOSENKO", but reacted consistently when asked if
these were his own parents. He was sensitivo to
questions concerning h‘s marriage. (There is reason
to believe he is not, in fact, married.) He was also
Given a series of tests asxing for the first letter
of his given nama, The whole alphabet sas covered,
and the polygraph charts show that he became increas-
ingly tense, culiainating at the letter 5 (or perhaps
T) on both runs. ‘while we recognize that testing of
this sort may not give valid results, it certainly
gets over to HOSENKO the decree of our doubt and may
even help us determine who he really is. We will
purgue this further, covering his patronym and family
name as well,

be Homosexuality: We tested polycraphically our
observations that NOSZNKO has homosexual tendencies

“4 and experience, He showed himself extremely sensitive
0 to this line of questioning... The test results tend
to show that he had homosexual experience in Soviet
imprisonment (see below) and with the KGB homosexual
agents whom he has told us he recruited and handled.

c. Imprisonment: In view of the strong indica-
tions that NOSENKO has spent considerable time in
prison (as reported in the past), wa questioned him
on this. He reacted strongly and consistently to the
question of whether he had been imprisoned in the USSR.
We then ran a series of tests to determine his relative
sensitivity to various types of imprisonment, various
erimes for which he may have been imprisoned, various
aceas of the USSR where he may have been imprisoned,

10 seen
Eis GLY

WAR

ere merece ee ee ee ae ie ee ee te
 

 

ee a

fics til

   

  

 

: . 5.
NOSEYKO wag again queried on
06 Go ’ gged restaurant meeting with
jaa ficer, whose neme he geve ag

 

oh in 1962 and .in 19€4. He could not clarify

why he had confused the names. Since we no# know
through Greville WYNNE that the Soviets were inter-
ested as late as early 1363 in clarifying PENKOV-
SKI1Y¥'s allusion in a hucged conversation.in 1961

0b to we believe that HOSENKO's 1962 version
Was @ KGB’ fishing expediticn. However, NOSEKO
, did not to a polycraph questicn concerning
0) the name and he may not nimgself know that
he was given a wrong nane for the officer,
nor why. \

ec. Jdamiral VORONTSOVs It hed been speculated
that when NCSENKO menticned in June 1962 meetings
the name of his "big friend“ in the naval GRU,
Admiral VORONTSOV, he may have bsen fishine for
coments from us concerning Marshal VARENTSOV,
PENKOVSKIY's protector. Cueried this time about
Admiral VORONTSOV, NOSENKO said that he had never
met him and had no personal or similar connections
he seeas to have completely forgotten ever having
claimed a personal relationsnip.

& ob ob .
& 8, (EREISFREUND) and (STORSBEPG} NOSENKO was asked about
{gohan PREISFREUN. whom h@ had e. fer claimed to have handled

1960-61 in Mostow az an acent acainst the(mfilitary code DUDE

clerk Jim STORSBERG NOSENKO again said he first met \PRETS=-
FREUGD jin 1960. We jtola NOSENKO that \FREISFREUND\told“us ol,
that had not met NOSENKO until 19627 NOSENKO.denied
this, We then added to his concern by telling him (untruth-
fully, but with _a reasonable estimate of the true situation)

O bthat[PREISPRUZID jalso! said that the KGB had told him to say
he first met NOS 4n 1960. when polycraphed NOSENKO re-
acted stroncly and consistently to questions on the subject.
These reactions and our follow-up may well bear on the ques-

obtdun of whether (SroRSBERG) was actually recruited by the KGB,
an iasue we rAsve reviewed with the FBI. NOSENKO must be
concernad because he now says that the (STORSBERG case was Ge
primarily GRYNAZOV's, not his own, although he, NOSENKO,
"supervised" it. Thus disappears tha sole case that NOSENKO
has claimed as his very own.

9. Identity and Personal Backgrounds One of the basic

 

questions underlying this cperation is NOSENKO's real identity.
and personal background. There are many indications, reported

TOP SEenr
EVES G33:

on

a ne i ees en nen nna St Riere-e , “et AANA +

Aa
74-0000

 

message. SHAKHOV's.background in fact suggests that

he {8 actually a KGB officers his contact in Geneva ,
with [David MARK, a former CIA cooptee in Moscoa, is 06, 8
et the center of NOSENKO's story. #e slanted our
questions to sugcest knowledge that S:iAKHOV ig a KGB
officer (not a KGB investigation suspect) and that

we may know of some of his important operational
eccntacts. NOSENKO was inconsistent in his story

and reacted significantly under polygraph examina-

tion, We are currently tracing new nanes and data

rl are re-examining the aicnificance of this matter.

atrongly and consistently to the question of whether
or not he had bean sent to Geneva by the KGB to con-
tact CIA, whether he was receiving KGB direction

there, and on related questions, including some re-
lated to his ostensible investigation of Pavel SYAKHOY,.

bd, K&B Control in Genevar NOSENKO reacted very

ce U.S, Personnel and Installations in Geneyas
HOSENKO wags interrogated on his earlier story that
he had seen in Geneva in 1964 the file on KGB activity
against American installations in Geneva (KGB ecryptonym
*SKONPICH"), His version this time conflicted with
his 1964 version but contained the same message, that
the weak and understaffed KGB in Geneva had little
interest, limited fecilities and no succesa in opera~
tions against the Americans and had practically no
idea of the identities of CIA personnel there. In
eddition, NOSENKO reacted to polygraph questions
related to whether the KGB had told him the name of
his CIA case officers, On the other hand, he did not
react to the names of the then COS S#itzerland and
COB Geneva, which suggests that he was not told them
(these names were buried in lists of names).

d. KGB Personnel in Genevat NOSENKO's answers
to questions concerning Alexandr KISLOV conflicted
with certein details earlier reported, including KIS.
Lov's role in the(ARCHITCHAT case, He seemed disturbed 02
by the questioning ‘on KISLOV and finally said he saw
no reason to answer any more of them. However, his
polygraph reactions did not sugcest that he was as
sensitive to KISLOV as to other individuals and matters
covered in the same series of questions. We also asked,
with the polygraph, whether he was withholding anything

TO? SECRET
Eyc3 GilY

ZIER.

tab.

ee et
74-0000

TG? ¢ on 7
Ehcs Cat

concerning his alleced agent Oleg GRINEVSKIY, an
official of the Soviet delegation; his reactions A
suggested that he may Genuinely be ignorant of ae
GRINEVSKIY's KGB activitie

 

at the Mes e earlier ~

 

[

gaid that his daily access to the KGB Residency in
Geneva in 1964 was due to his frequent contacts #ith
Mikhail S. TSYMBAL; this time he said that he only
sad TSYMBAL twice in Geneva in 1964 end failed to
rention a Sunday meeting with TSYMBAL which he hed
reported to us at the time it cccurred. This leaves
open the whole question of how NOSEIKO can explain
his daily access to the Residency, which he himself
no# says - evidently on the basis of what he has
learned from our previous interrogations - is not
normally permitted. This will be covered in further
questioning.
7.Matters kel to the PEIKCVSKLY Compromise:

a. John ABIDIANte Visit to the Pushkin Street
Deaddrop: XOSENKO reacted witn special sensitivity
and intensity when asked in a polygraph test whether
he had been instructed to tell CIA about ABIDIAI’s
visit to the Pushkin Street deaddrop. In addition,
he refused for the first time to discuss his own
participation in the incident, adanantly claiming
that he does not remember when or even whether he
visited the drop or whether he read reports on
surveillance coverage of it after ABIDIAN's visit.
(He had earlier said he visited the drop at least
twice, immediately after ABIDIAI's visit; he des-
eribed the location and named the KGS efficers.he
went with.) In sharp contrast to hia reluctence
to discuss his personal role was hic unhesitating
and confident response to other aspects of the
Pushkin Streat drop storys he reiterates that
ABSIDIAN was under full time, double-strength sur
veillence throughout his tour in Moscow and that
ABIDIAN was surveilled to the drop. He now adds,
for the first time, that the KGB concluded that the
drop had been initially found by a U.S. tourist or
Gelegation member and that ABIDIAN was merely check-
ing out its suitability for some eventual use. (In
fact, PENKOVSKIY proposed the drop and ABLDIAN went
there only in response to the agreed telephonic
signal triggered by persons unknown, not. by PENKOV-

SKIY.)
TOP Sea
EVES CY

 

ViBR

ee Serene
74-00000

y ——~ Stn aan “

© * ae ol
ee : aes ”

' To : baie vit
-2-

a
i

ae

break down sone of his obstacles to confession by showing

us in s different and stroneer posture. Therefore, we now
plen to go beyond the limited aims originully set for this
phase of the interrogation. We plan to continue the inter-
rogation in the hope of getting a confession; written plans
wilt be submitted when they are more definitely formulated.

Navid EF. Murmhy
Chief, Soviet Bloc Vivision

Attachment
cc: Acting DDP (w/attach)

Chief, CI (w/attach)
Director of Security (w/attach)

1

!

i

i

|

i

i

H 6

TOP SER
eyes

ee,

1 nthe aaron nee eat

 

4
3
‘toa t0210-t0016

sated nek ahaa daeetcdeaerteainen ced tnatitnts temeneeneeeemeeemmaedicmeens meee mene eee ED

 

oy

anes ae
eer ey
Eye3 bald
25 October 1966

VEMORANDIPD FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SURILCT : Yuriy I. NOSPNKO

1. The attached merorancum describes the technicues
used and the results obtained in the first rha.e of the
cresent interrosatison of SOSTNEN, The rost significant
iten to ererve fror tris questioning and related nolveranch
t ing nertained to Subject's story con Lee tarvey OS*SLT,
subject's reactions to the polvrranh indicate that he
never nearc of OSWA LK antil after President Nennedy's
assassination in “overher 19637°P at he was not an active
particirant in the case as clained ané that his whole
story on CS*ALD was nrenared by the XG3B and given to us
at their direction.

 

 

2. ther areas of estrone reacticn refer to Subject's
suspected contact with the KCB walle in Geneva in 1962 and
4964 and to Abidian and the Pushkin Street drop (key factor
in the PENKOVSKIY corprorise), Subject became very upset
at questicning on this subject and refused to discuss his
ovn alleged involverent in the case. te also touched upen
“OSENKG's nareutal v-ackground, reriods of irorisonrent end
honesexuality, His reactions here all pointed to clear-
cut contradictions in the story he has told us.

3. There still remain several areas of interest and
importance to be covered with the techniques used to date.
Se expect to complete this line of questioning by 28 Octoder.

4, This first phase has ensbled us to confim: our
analyses of kev asrects of this case, Were imnortant is
the fact that NOSFENEO & ROS he is reacting in sensitive
areas and this is worrying his because he is not sure hew
much we know or Sew we learned it. NGSENKO's reactions
have given us hore that we rav by this nrocedure have begun
to strike home. Fe do not know what it is that Feens this
man sitting month after month in his present situation.

Ye speculate that one factor ray be confidence that the

KGB will get him out. Related te this mav be the thoucht
that. the KGR has CIA so deeplv nenetrated that it would be
unhealthy for him to confess Nur current line of interro-
gation, expended end used even rore forcefully, might

 
 

  

 

TGP sear

EYES GLY

A tt eect sath dae,

Pen ee eres went: Teen
74-00000

ER LT A RN i A A A ee gm sie a tame tem ne

 

24 October 1966

1. This is an interim report on progress to dete in
the new phase in the interrogation of UCSENKO, which began
on 18 October 1966, and covers the first four days, 18-21
October. After a break, it will resume on 25 October.

2. Our aims in this phase of the interrocation have
been limiteds in view of the possibility of losing accesa
to NOSEXKO, wo have sought (8s) to strengthen our basic report,
now in preparation, by testing his story further, clarifying’
points of confusion and revealing new contradictions, and
by polygraph exaninations of key areas, and (b) to lead
toward his eventual confession by directly exploiting our
hypotheses about the true background of NOSENKO and this
KG3 operation, to convey to NOSENKC the impression that we
know more than before, that we possess irrefutable proof
of hia guilt and that he has no prospects for release. We
refrainei from doing this in earlier phases of the interro-
gation, but at this point there seens little to lose.

3. The first four days have shown that the method is
useful, NOSENKO again proved a good reactor on polygraph,
he seemed disturbed by our knowledge and the special areas
of laterest we revealed, and we were able to develop im-
portant new information, contradictions and indications
concerning the background of this operation.

Method

4. Our basic approach has Leen to question HOSENKO in
specific.terms cn selected end detailed espects-of the story
he has told to date. We gave him no explanation for our
renewal of the interrogation, nor has he asked for any. Our
questions have been pointed and detailed and neither require
nor permit long-winded answers; they do not seek new infor-
mation but are clearly designed to check information he pro-
vided earlier; our questions are slanted to build up the
impression that they are based on data we hava learned in-
Gependently. The subject matter is taken up in a preceter-
mined order designed for maxinum impact on NOSENKO, Inter~
wogstion sessions are followed by polygraph examinations on
the matters covered in the interrogation and/or other topics,
Somewhat more time is spent on direct polygraph examination
than on interrogation,

TOP SEE
EVES

Waele pine er ane

hk ie etn mer 9 on
 

Highlights to Date

§. O3HALD Cases The opening session was a polygraph
examination conducted by Nicholas Stoiaken, whcaa NOSENKO
recognized as his earlier polygraph operator. The question-
ing was cevcted entirely to Lee Harvey O35WALD and NOSEIKO's
role in the OSWALD case. we hit this point before any other
in order (a), to permit clean polyoraph testing on this key
matter without having disturbed him with other questions,
and (b), to get over to NOSENKO the cravity of our concern
on this matter of highest state interest. The operator's
conclusions weres

Be Subject was not personally or actually in-
wolved in the OSWALD case from 1959 while OSAALD was
in the Soviet Union.

be Subject received special instructions (from
the KGB) absut the OSWALD case and what to tell Am-
erican authorities about it.

@.e Subject's allegec: association with the OSWALD
case both “before and after" the Kennedy assassination
was partly for the purpose cf supporting end sub-
etantiating Subject'sa cover story “legend.

a Subject heard of OSWALD (as a case) only after
Kennedy's assassination, however he was not an active
participant in 1963 as he indicates, but was probably
briefed on the case ky a KGB officer.

6. Geneva Meetings: We devoted several hours of inter-
rogation and polycraph testing to the Geneva perlods, June
1962 and January-February 1964. wWe hit this point second in
order because there are clear signs of important deception
behind it and it offers us special opportunities to suggest
inside information which in fact derive from observation and
feduction, Among the hich points were the followings

@ Pavel SHAKHCVs NOSENKO's story of his “"investi-
gation" of SHAKHOV, a Soviet delegation member whom he
said was suspected in 1962 to be an American agent, was
covered again in detail. Tha new data wa obtained tend
to confirm that this is a serious part of NOSENXO's

TOP e273:
EVES Gii¥

eerie erent oe ene ene meee ee

 
