74-0000

 

#ersece : : 2 August 1950

to ir. ERCWN, previously identified in this report, the windows
were closed and the air coniitioning vas on when the mestings
ware conducted.

. Et would be difricult for anyous to monitor the converastion
in roaa 209 from either the back or front doors as they are of
smoked glass construction thereby affording the ocewpants of the
room te note anyone standing in front of then. — :

At Washington, D. C.

Attached as Exhibit 27 1s a copy of 5 THX summary sent fran
Svecial Agent in Caarge, Miami, Flovide, to FBI Headquarters on
23 Suly 1960, ami made available to this Agency by Special Agent
Sem PAPICH,  /

Cerara Yh :
EO

July 1960 by the Reporting Agent and Mr. Joseph
wity Officer, Project JMARC, in his Offiee ay Barbon

cooperatives : 7
har. DROLLER prefaced his remarks by indicating that ke had -

completed @ memorandum for the rederd, requasted by Mr. LANCAN,
ond made a copy available (see Exhibit #5). o

  

   
 

Stefl employee, alias Frank RENDER, was

  

Hr. DROLIGR indicated that the gist of his eoyer story for
the indigenoas persomel is that he is a private Anerican citisen
ond a menibex of a group of Ameriean citizens (business, education,
ete.) whe sometimes in the past find themselves in minor disagree-!
ment with the United States foreign policy in Latin America (faver=-
ing TRUJILLO end the like). ‘That this group has noticed a mich
more "forward look" by the United States Goverment an& that the
Group is therefore directed to do enything which can be of
assistance to patrioctia citizens who will bring about.a change
of the CASTRO Government. DROLLER further declared that operating
with thia corer story, he hag never mentioned that he yas an
esployee of the United States Goverment. Mr. LANGAN, at this
point, queried Ib. DROLLER whether any mention of the United
States Goverment had been made by the initgencus personnel who
participated in the meetings. DROLLER could not recall. Ee
further poluted cat that United States Government cama up in
meetings when discussing United States foreign policy, out never
in commection with employment by the United States Goverament.

iy, DROLLER displayed the alias travel deowmentation which
he has been using en his excursions to Miemi, Beach, Florida, ores.
T% was noted that the address 144 West E6th Street, New York City,
was listed on this docimentation, but accerding to Me. DROLLER is
not backstouped.

 

 

 
#215000 Se 2 Anguss 2960

Hr. DROLLER declared that he had conducted meetings on 24
Mey, aud 7 and 19 June 1960. ‘The meetings were held in different
roons in the same building, ci the same flocr on two occasions _
and once on the ground flocr. During these meetings, vhich vere
held for business and social reasona, the following were present:

 

Hr. DROLLER pointed out that on these previous occasions in which
the Court Resor Motel was used, Mr. HETCHHARDT made the reserva-
tions.

Mie. UROLER stated that oh no time aia the agents mow be-
forehand where the meetings would take place. He had no farther
pertinent information te offer.

 

 

 

Search of 08 indices revealed that }
or the Ease Company of (uba vas issued an operations approys
on 29 May 1956 to pernit She Subject'a use as a xt

 
    

  

 

es NO

 

 
74-0000

 

s2rsce:n , 2 dugust 1950

Cuba is also knowledgeable of the incident since she called him
for aievice. BREWER advised her to call the FBI. She telephoned
the FEC from the hone of Hrs. MORRIS or MORRTSON (not farther _
identicted). . a :

lies. VALEITTHER, accondimg to DAVIS, did a little investigstiog
on her own. After the meeting, of the group was over, Frank BEEDER
called. ational Airlines to comfirm his reservations for 19 July
1960, Shortly thereafter, Mrs. VALENTTWER ealled National Airlines
and darsexmined thet HESDER wax destined for Washington, D.C, She
alse comiucted discreet inquimies at the motel ani ascertained
that tne oceupants of Room 20@ vere a group of Dusinesemen using 2 uw.
the remm for the day. Nrs. VALENTINER wes careful to note the :
license: plates of tyo cars thet vere used by the conferees: . She
conduezsed no further investigestion.

; Smecial Agent DAVIS desexcibed Mra. VALENTINER ag discreet,
coopervscive, intelligent, anti -—CASTRO, and anti-Communist, DAVIS
feels <mat this vertioilar incident will "tesa natural death"

and thes the people who have trecene knowledgeable to samme extent

of cur activity are discreet enough to not discuss it further.. ~
During bis discussion with Mrs. VALENTINER, DAVIS at no tine atvulged
any United Statea Goverment smensorship of this matter.

; Acrving Special Agent in Charge Richard BAXER concluded thet
28 faz es the local FBI Office was concerned, this was a closed
“matter. He added that any other participation by his office would

have tx be approved by FRI Heuidquarters, .

 

 

me

At Comm Geblas, Florida

Ax 1100 hours, 24 July 1950, the Reporting Agent, unier alias,
moved ste reon 206 at the Untwersity Caurt Resort Motel. A
physica. survey at the motel was made on this day. Attention is
invitet to Exhibit #. Buildimg "Cc" where the meetings were cone

conver=zascion in room.209 from ‘ner kitchenette. As will be noted

on the pege 7 diegran of Exhibit 46, her kitchen extends three to
four feet (actual measurement) into room 209. ‘The kitchen door

is of piyvood construction. Im building C there is a 3/4 to 1 inch
gap bewween the floor and the base of the Kitchen doors to apparently
allow mor mall to well carpeting. Betaeen rooms 208 and £09 there
is 2 smeel reinforced plastered wall. It is the writer's opinion
that t= is impossible to monit:or conversation talcing place in 209
fran 205 without the use of proper Listening devices. According

nn a lene

 
74-0000

 

Shortly after the call was received by the FBI from Mrs.
VALENTINER, PSI. Speelal Agemt Howard ALBAUGH informed “Bernie”
RELCHHARDT of the aforementioned telephone call. “Bernie” sub-
sequently asked Special Agent DAVIS to contact Mrs. VALSNTINER
for the purpose of determining what she had overheard, refrain
from discussing this matter further with anyone, ani. also to
caution her friends whom she had told of the incident to do lite-
wise. . oe oo

Special Agent DAVIS mentioned that Mra. VALENTINE had
returned to her rom, 210, at the University Court Resort Hotel
at 1130 hours, 19 July 1960, and noticed bellows of cigar ancke
emanating from underneath her kitchen deor. Upon examining the
situation, she overheard lowl conversing in the connecting roc.
In listening further, Mra. VALENTINER was able to reeord the
conversation in Reon 209 by taking copious notes. Mrs. VALENITIER
belteved there vers three Cubans present together with two other
individuals whose nationality she could not determine but whose
names she established to be Frank HEIDER and "Jimmie." One of .

’ the Cubana served as an interpreter and RENDER spoke with a dis-
tinct Germanic accent. Mrs. VALENTINER told DAVIS that br. BENDER

during the meeting had stated that he was "hired by the United —

States to do away with CASTRO." Mrs. VALENTINER also noted during ©

the meeting references. to Howard and HUNT, which she surmized
to be one Howard HUNT.

Special Agemt DAVIS indicated that he interviewed Hrs.
VALENTINER in her quarters in the motel during the hours 2300 te
O145 on 19 and 20 July 1960. The vriter, at this point, inquired
as to the size of the crack underneath Mra. VALENTINER's kitchen
door. DAVIS answered by stating that it was large (exact dimen-
sions not noted). He further declared that she had mentioned te
him that she was able to chserve the portion of the leg (to the
imee) of many of the individuals participating in the discussion.
The weiter further queried DAVIS as to whether she had any knov-
ledge of Spanish. DAVIS replied that she advised him that she
possesses flnent knowledge of Spanish after having resided in Cuba

’ for ten years. Her husband has lived in Cuba for thirty years.

While at the motel, DAVIS chserved that she bad notes of the
conversation which she referred to during the interview. It should
be noted that these notes were not confiscated by DAVIS.

DAVIS stated that Mrs. ROBINSON, who is also a resident of
the motel, was present during the meeting for a very shors periad
(exact times unknown), Mrs. ROBINSON ig the wife of ean American
busineasman in Cuba. Mr. lawrence BREWER of the Esso Company of

 

 
74-0000

 

#219000 ne 2 August 1960

RROWE stated that no calls were received at the motel during
the first meeting now were there any cutside calla made. There
were no incomizg or outgoing calls made during the second meeting.
Tro incoming calls were received by Jerry DROLLER at 1500 and 1530
hours at vhich time Mr. ARTIME called and talked to BRGHN who in-
terpreted for DROLLER. EROWN further recalled that at the end
of the third meeting, about 1600 hours, Mr, DROLLER telephoned
and Jake ESTERLIUE on their unlisted phones fram
the motel. room. When Mr. DROLLER was talking to end
ESTERLINS, omly BROWN was present. No outgoing calls were made
by the indigenous persomel, during the entire session at the motel.
All calla were mede through a switchboard. EROWN pointed out that
at ao time during.the sessions with the indigenous personel vere
they interrupted’ by motel employees or occupants. He added that _
the motel reem’did not have a radio, however, there wag a tele-”
vision set which was not used during the meetings.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

citving nest to hia table. He pointed out that although his
chatting with the Cubans during lunch was in Spanish, they did
not discuss business... There was no discussion between tables.
Atter lunch the group returned to the room at about 125 hours
and waited for Mer. DROLLER to return. Mr. DROLLSR returned to
the room at about 1440 hours at which time the third meeting

Commenced. HRCOWN noted that while waiting for Mr. DROLLER, little

or no discussion transpired between he ami the three Cubans.

Attention is invited to Exhibit $3 which is a memorandum for the

Seer coreeins forth im detail on account of the meetings = 19
2 es .

BROWN mentioned that he’had never been at the University
Court Resort Motel before he meeting nor has he been there since.
He had no further in ion to offer.

  
  

 

 

60 im his office and the office of

4

ca 22 and 23 July 1

 

 

 

He vas cooperative 964: gave what appeared to be truthful statements.

REYCHHARDT stated that he does not have much more information
to offer thas has been cited in his cable (Edhibit #1), dated 20

July 1960. Mx. REICHEARDT was instructed by the Reporting Agent Gj

( &

hy

ee

 

 
74-0000

#229000 oe ~2 August 1960

to write a memorandum for the recard as an addendum to Exhibit
#1 setting forth in detail the recelpt cf information from the
FBI end what subsequent action vas taken by him in this matter.
Attached as Exhibit i) is a meworsndun for the record, dated 23
July 1960, voluntarily submitted by Mr. REICHHARDT.

Me. RELCHEARDT volumteered the information that he had
learned thet Mr. Justin F. GLEIGHAUP, Chief, 00/Contacts Office,

 

 

 

Coral Gables, vas to meet with
{ 22 July 1960 and discuss a

 

matter not comected with the security incident. In this connection, —

REICHHARDYT briefed GLEICHAUF on the security. leak so that he

. would be alert te any mention of this incident during his meeting

with | GLELCHAUF subsequently advised REICHEARDT that
no mention of the incidest to bin.

REICHHARDT had ne further pertinent information to offer.
Attaehed as Exhibits #5 ta a memorandum for the record pre-

paned by Mr. John J. SULLIVAN, Security Officer, FOB, ‘on 25 July
1960. .

At Miami Beach, Florida
Aeting Special Agent im Charge, Richard BAKER, of the Miani

“FBI was contacted in his office, third floor, Justice Building,

3915 Biscayne Blvd., at 0955 hours, 25 July 1960, by the Reparting
Agent and FOB Security Officer, Joon J. SULLIVAN. Mr. SULLIVAN
briefed Mr. BAKER why ve were there and requested that he firnish
any information available relative to the incident that cccurred
at the University Cours Resort Motel on 19 duly 1960. Mr. BAKER
at 1005 houre requested FBI Special Agent George DAVIS, the in-
vestigater handling this matter, to participate in the diacussion.

Special Agent DAVIS indicated that at 1500 hours on 19 July
1960 4 call was received from Mrs. Clark VALENTINER, wife of an
executive of the Continental Can Company, Havana, Cuba, who re-
ported that she had overheard a discussion of an anti-CASTRO group.
At thia point, Mr. DAVIS pointed out thet his detailed report on
this matter which is incorporated in « larger report dealing with
unsolicited information, was forwarded to the FBI Headquarters
on Saturday, 23 July 1960. DAVIS added that the only matter that
he did not include in his investigative report was two license
plates mmbers which Mra. VALENTINER hed provided him. irs.
VALEZNTIUER had noted the license plates of the participants in ©
the meeting conducted in Roam 209 at the University Court Resort
Motel.

oi

 

 
14-00000

 

#219000” " 2 August 1560

GERSRAL:
' At Coral Gables, Florida
On 22 and 25 Judy 1960,1 | Chie?, Forward

_ Operating Base (0B), was interviewed in his office relative to
the security violation at Coral Gables (see Exbibit #1).

 

 

 

; indicated that he was on his way to Washington,
D. Ce, at the time that the incident was reported by the FRI to
Bermard REICHSARDT, a staff employee who maintains his office.
outside of YOB. O'MARA further stated that he had been briefed
on the security leak while he was in Washington, D. C.

 

 

 

who aa not attend the meeting vhere the security
Meerdvag ® weeiien prevered a memorandum gieunanens (see

 

Coral Cables » Florida.

 

reliable in his statements.

 

. Mr. BROWN, alias } stated that Jerry DROLIER,

alias Frank BENDER, came to Coral Cables on Monday evening, 16 July
1960, frem Washington, D. C. BROWN added that a meeting was held

at a safehouse.at 2300 hours, 15 July 1960, in order to discuss

_ the program for the following day with members of MRR. Staff employees
William KEN, Jerry GROLIER, and BROWN were present at~
this meeting.

 

 

 

 

Mr, BROWN cemtinued that the reason that Mr. DROLLER came to
‘Coral Cables was to have a meeting with several members of the MRR
on 19 July 1960 1n order to “iren out" internal dissensions.

At 0810 hours, 19 J O, Case Officer BROWN arrived at

_the home of a Priend of |ARTDG! THE| vhose address he recalled to be 623
Velarde Avenue, Coral Gables, Shae viectan. BROWS could not further
identify _ARTIME's friend other than the fact that he was a Cuban
ond a Harvard University graduate. Upon arrival, BROWS observed
that ARTIME was "still.in the sack". _ARTIME and BROWN departed

the residence at 0905 hours, proceeded direc’ directly to the motel, and
arrived there at aporoximtely 0920 hours. He used a sterile rented
vehicle in transporting ARTIMS and arrangements for the motel to be
used for the meeting were made by Jerry DROLIER. , | ae

 

 

 
 

[tos-torto-taaod)

‘p.: :

 

 

1

FILE NO. _

#219000 DATE ____2 Ausist 1960

 

 

 

SYNOPSIS

that on 19 July 1960 three separate
University Court Resort

 

The two (2) staff employees were interviewed and insofar es
they recall no Government or CIA interest vas divulged during the
course of their meetings vith the three (3) Cubans. ;

‘Interviews with Miami FBI representatives reflected that
Tits. VALEETINER had told the FSI that oue of the conferees stated
that he vas hired by the United States to do away with Castro.

The rat, at the request of steff employee Bernard Reichharat,
told Mrs. VALENTOER that incident reported by her was undsy FRT
investigation and for reasons of security, it was desired that she
refrain from discussing incident with anyone and that she also
counsel her friends to do likewise.

Paysical survey of the University Court Resort Motel revealed
that the room selected for the meeting ves vulnerab o-

Attached to the original of this report are Exhibits 1 through

3.

 

REPORT NO.

FEY 11250 20
74-0000

 

#erg000 pe 2 Auest 1560

case Officer BROWN further elaborated that he wae not avare
of Mr. DROLIZR's voom muber usbil the actual morning of the meeting.

| DROLLER hed cheese’ isto the University Court Resort Motel unler

the name Frank BENDER end had decided to utilize his quarters for
the meeting. After determining DROIGR's reas mmber, ERCWN went

See te tne can uuere be bad let ARTDM, picked him tp, and pro~

ceeded to reom 209 ab the motel. He stated that at all tines
while he was in his car he made sure that he was not beieg sur-

vedlled and took necessary action to preclude amy mobile surveillance.

He 424 net expose the indigenous participants umecessarity while
at the metel. Daring the bers 0015 to 1015, 1120 to 1330 and :
1430 toe 1600, 19 July 1960, when the meetings occurred, the doors
wae Yocnea Saat there vas no eating or drinking a9 them ooze

collection, neither he nor the indigenous
any of the occupants of tha motel. BROWN mentioned that he was
not aware of any security precautions that the respeasible Case

|. Oftteer Jerry DROLEER took before, during, acd after the nesting.

The primary duty of BROWN during the meetings vas serving 23 aa
interpreter for Mr. DROLLER.

tthe conversation vas lowier than noraal ani it ves noted
that Jerry DROLLER speaks. with an obvious Germanic accent. English
and Spanish were spoken freely throughout the meetings.

BROWN indicated that the following - names; area, and terms

were mentioned duriag the meetings:

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

We

Ve

We

ad.

 

2 August 1960

Lionel (used frequently and this is the code name for
one of the MAR men)

Oriente and Havana, Cuba

References as to Washington, such as, “What are my friends
is Washington going to say?"

Mexico

Frente

National Directorite

MRR

‘Execative Comittee : ,
Junta , )

Visas —

Discipline (often used)

Pilots (mumbers such as 40 or 50)
Revolutionary Front (referring to FRD)

Executive Committees and Secreteriats (example: "Why
hasn't the front come up with the Executive Committee?”)

Airplanes (Example: Frank BENDER stated, "I have plenes
in the training areas, but you have not preduced the .
pilots.")

At our meetings in New York

"You have net cooperated with ny Jimmie who came to Miami
as my military representative."

BROWN stated that to the best of his knowledge no mention
was made of the United States Govermment or the CTA. ©

 
