 

29 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Executive Committee Meeting - 12:30 p.m. - 29 March 1963

IN ATTENDANCE: All present, plus Cottrell, Kaysen, Dungan and
others

The President raised the question of what should be our
policy on hit-and-run raids and asked my views. I reported my
views as per the attached memorandum of 29 March. Secretary
Rusk stated that the United States would be blamed for unauthorized
raids, the Soviets would expect that we could stop them and they
would immediately take counter actions such as escorting ships,
etc. Ona minimum, we should act to disassociate ourselves
and do all possible not to permit the continuance of unauthorized
raids. :

Dillon stated that we could not stop them because of
the number of ports, small ships, inadequate coast guard facilities,
etc. McNamara countered by saying that we could stop them by
utilizing military resources. As a second alternative he suggested
we might explore modifying our course of action and finally, should
disassociate ourselves from responsibility. The Attorney General
outlined various. steps that could be taken to identify the leadership
of the various groups and to either prosecute them or exclude them
from the country through immigration procedures. Thompson .and
Harriman expressed particular concern over the reported airplane
that was ready to bomb Soviet ship. Practically all in attendance
thought that we should try and guide the operation away from attacks
on Soviet ships because of obvious reaction of the Soviets, The
Vice President felt that we would be criticized either from letting
them go on the one hand, or stopping them on the other. He felt
the military should immediately study that which should be done to
stop them and all actions should be taken to halt the unauthorized
raids.

   

Ai
RELEASE GF THIS DOCUMENT.
AS SANITIZED ‘

2 9( 93/98

 

 
|. . TOP SECRET

 

fied when filled in form is detached from controlled document.

“UNCLASSIFIED when blank—TOP SECRET when attached to Top Secret Document—Automatically downgraded or declassi-

“ ' CONTROL AND COVER SHEET FOR TOP SECRET DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION
DOC. DATE
COPY NO.

NUMBER OF PAGES

NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS

 

REGISTRY

CIA CONTROL NO.

DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED

 

LOGGED BY

 

 

 

ATTENTION: This form will be placed on top of and attached to each Top Secret document received by the Central Intelligence Agency
or classified Top Secret within the CIA and will remain attached to the document until such time as tt is downgraded, destroyed, or
transmitted outside of CIA, Access to Top Secret matter is limited to Tap Secret Control personnel and those individuals whose official
duties relate to the matter. Top Secret Control Officers who receive and/or release the attached Top Secret material will sign this form
and indicate period of custody in the left-hand columns provided, Each individual who sees the Top Secret document will sign and

indicate the date of handling in the right-hand columns.

 

REFERRED TO RECEIVED RELEASED

SEEN BY

 

SIGNATURE OFFICE/DIV. | DATE

 

° SIGNATURE . DATE | TIME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE OF DETACHMENT: When this form is detached from Top Secret material it shalt be completed in the appropriate spaces below
and transmitted to Central Top Secret Control for record.

 

 

DOWNGRADED DESTROYED

DISPATCHED (OUTSIDE CIA)

 

 

BY (Signature)

To

 

 

WITNESSED BY (Signature)

BY (Signature)

 

 

OFFICE

poe 26 vse eaeviovs correoms. TOP SECRET

OFF ECE

 

(40}

aAmMDamMA WO
13-00000

 
fe (

29 March 1963

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Unauthorized Cuban Raids

1. Organizations such as the Second Front of Escambrey, Alpha 66,

_and Lamba 66 are well-known in the Cuban colony in Florida and Puerto

Rico. Their plans are discussed openly, are picked up by CIA and
reported almost daily in our CIA bulletins.

2. There is no doubt that the individuals are in and out of Florida
and Puerto Rico.. The boats, outboard motors, guns, ammunition and
explosives originate in the United States from legally licensed or
unlicensed sources (of which there are many). We believe that the
operations are staged out of the Bahamas and other non-U,S, areas.

3, The operations are skillfully executed by men of obvious
courage and dedication. Apparently the organizations are building up
and we can expect more rather than fewer instances in the future.

» 4, Obviously raids of this type will exascerbate problems with
Cast o and more particularly the Soviet Union and, from that standpoint,
areAdesirable. However, successful harrassment will create very
considerable annoyance, will stimulate internal dissension, will
complicate Castro's problems and will have very considerable effect
in discrediting Castroism in Latin America. Inability of Castro to deal
with these raids might cause the Soviets to question the’ strength of
his position and therefore reappraise their own position in Cuba. It is
impossible to predict the result of such reappraisal. On the one hand
it might cause them to question their presence in Cuba; on the other
to reinforce it; and finally, might cause them to open up a discussion .
of their presence with the United States.

5. Finally, although it is outside of the competence of the
Intelligence Community, it.is my personal view that a concerted and
publicized effort to ''stand down" these operations would probably draw
more public and press criticism in the United States than would result
from tolerating these acts while officially disassociating the government
from them through denial of both responsibility and control.

JOHN A, McCONE.
Director
13-00006

CONFIDENTIAL Group I
; Excluded. from
automatic down-
THE SECRETARY OF STATE grading and de-

. ‘classification
Washington

DRAFT LETTER
TO BE USED AS A BASIS FOR DISCUSSION AT THE NSC_ EXECUTIVE

COMMITTEE MESTING FRIDAY, MARCH 29 at 12:30 p.m

Dear Mr. President:

I am concerned that: hit and run raids by Cuban exiles
may create incidents which work to the disadvantage of our
national. interest. Increased frequency »f these forays
could raise a host of problems’ over which we wou'd not
have control.

Actions such as yesterday's exile attack which.
caused substantial damage t>. a Soviet vesse’ may
complicate our relations with the USSR without net
advantage to us. Le

I therefore propose several measures which cculd
impede or deter further attacks of this nature,

First, the intelligence community could increase its
efforts in Miami to develov hard information about

_projected raids. This is currently communicated to Customs

authorities charged with invest# gation of violation of
arms control.

Second, Customs and the Coast Cuard, on the basis
of this information can ston and search the vesse's.
(They now do this, and picked un about 50 men and four
boats last year.) Arms and vessels are confiscated,
and participants arraigned if a violation of ‘aw has

The President,

The White House.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

~2-

- occurred. Bail is set in accordance with the severity

of the violation. An increase of one or more vessels
to facilitate current customs and Coast Guard operations
in the Miami area would be helpful.

Third, CIA, FBI and Customs officials in Miami
could quietly inform suspects in the exile community
that the United States intends to intensify enforcement
of violations of pertinent laws relating to exile raids.

Fourth, the FCC could locate and close down i!lega!
radio transmitters operating out of the Miami area in
connection with these raids.

Fifth, we can inform the British Government of our
plans to try to control these activities and express
our understanding that the British Government has
become increasingty concerned about the possibility
that British territory in the B-hamas may be used for
these raids and may be considering action to police

these areas more effectively.

These measures have not been discussed with any 3£
the senior officials of the Departments concerned, but
if any of the measures commend themselves to you, I
suggest that a meeting 2f the interested Devartments
be called to discuss the prob'em.

Faithfully yours,

Dean Rusk

CONFIDENTIAL
March 28, 1963 :
SECRET.

The President then suggested a meeting be held this
afternoon to determine a number of matters.

1. We should establish what our contacts are with the groups
so that we can guide them effectively, whether we can stand down
the operations.

2. A policy statement which State is undertaking.

3 The question of prosecution which the AG would undertake.

4, Discussing with UK since there is evidence that much of this
originated in the Bahamas.
5. The question of any informal discussion with the Soviet Union.

At the meeting attended by AG, McNamara, McCone, . Cotrell,
Douglas Dillén, it was decided to send a group to Miami this afternoon
for discussion with the Miami representatives of the FBI and CIA, Immigratio:
imunusiiatex officials, Coast‘Guard, etc. Principal ‘purposes would be to:

1. Find out all we know about the groups, who they are, where
they are, and what can be done.about them. —

2. Lateral transfer of information between CIA and FBI Miami.
Apparently there is not sufficient exchange between CIA and FBI in Miami.

3. Ways and means of using Customs and Coast Guard for some
of this. ‘
4. Warning the unauthorized groups in advance of actions we

intend to take against them. Also warning the suppliers of explosives;
arms, etc.

5. FCC shut down illicit radio stations, provide a truck equipped
with DF-equipment to locate the stations.

6. Explore what could be done to influence the groups away from
Soviet targets. In this connection, the AG favored a complete standdown
before any attempt was made to guide the groups.

Te Alexis Johnson expressed greatest’ concern over the plane’
matter and asked that the group take immediate action to immobilize
the plane.

 
     
  

(d-10306-10016)

26 March 1963

ADDITIONAL NOTE IN MY MEMORANDUM OF DISCUSSION WITH THE
PRESIDENT:

The President and I engaged in a brief discussion of the Soviet
plans with respect to Cuba. He indicated that he once felt that the
Soviets would withdraw all of their forces from Cuba, but that he had
now reached the conclusion that the plan had changed, Bundy volunteered
that they.at no time had said specifically that they were to withdraw all —
of their forces, in fact their particular wording was somewhat vague.
McCone ‘stated that, indicatorg were conflicting. On the one hand, certain
information such fs the rece tL —sfintercept J jand report of Castro's
own statements would lead one’to the. conclusion that a gradual and
continuing withdrawal would take. place;. that the Cubans were trained and
became proficient in operating advanced sophisticated Soviet equipment,
This would take many months, probably the balance of the year and
Castro welcomed this period of time because it would mean a continuing

' Soviet interest in Cuba, On the other hand, DCI pointed out that building

of permanent installations and the arrival of undisclosed but apparently
sophisticated equipment, although in small quantities, nevertheless
important volume would indicate a conclusion that Soviets were there to
stay, but perhaps on a somewhat reduced scale,

_JAM/ji (taped)

oe
13-00000

Excerpt from President's Press Conference -- April 3

THE PRESIDENT: As you know, our best information is
that they did not come from the United States. We have already
indicated that we do not feel that these kind of raids serve a
useful purpose. It seems to me in some ways they strengthen
the Russian position in Cuba and the Communist control of Cuba
and justify repressive measures within Cuba which might other-
wise not be regarded as essential. So that we have not supported
this and these men do not have a connection with the United States
Government. I think a raid which goes in and out does indicate
the frustrations of Cuban exiles who want to get back home and

-who want to strike some blow, but I don't think that it increases

the chances of freeing Cuba,
13-00000 ~~ a : oe ran en
at CONFIDENTIAL Attachment Grbers A. FF Copel
Ce, . ORF IDENTIA ‘

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Executive SECRETARIAT

March 26, 1963

Oreft letter to the President

{he President bas called an ASC Enecutive Comittee
the probles posed by Cuban re refugee groupe.

The Secretary kas esked me to sake aveilabia to
you the atteched proposed letter fram him te the Prest- |
dent which will serve as a baate for discussion at
tomorrow's meeting. The ietter has
signed by the Secretary but presumably will go to the
Prestdsot ta tte present form. If eny substantive
changes are mede ot the time of eigenture 1 shall so

a
i
i

iefors you.
Villies %Y, Ck
Executive iecretary
Attachment:
As stated.

CONPIDEMIZAL Attachment
