 

 

Ys vii iuiskd Uri {

"iy December 19467 HEISLER applied to the Home Office for pere
tnisoion te publish a weekly newspaper in the Cuech isnguage far the
Gsech communities in thie country, bo establish a iiterary ard music
agenty through wich foreiga Uterature could be placed in thhe country
and (rom time to time to publica books, mainly for export. He wae
granted pormisotes te work as a free-lance journalist.

“Ae the end of 1947 EISLER applied for a Certificate of Raturali-
setien, bat thie was refused ia Mareh 1945.

“In March 196) HEISLER started a firm named tho Hides Ceom=

, peay, which claimed te be the solo agent for a firm of Spenish cotton

masolacturera. This firm dece not appear to have had a good reputa-
tien. Im 195% he wes converted with an Iinport aad export firm nained
AlleWeye Barvice, and in 1752 with Metex Company and The Metes
Company Ldeaited. Siace that tine ho has continueusly come te notlee
fa cesnection with armeo dealing, Theve is, however, no evidence to
cennect hin with any political activity, Recent information suggests
thas be may bo tm oeme financial difficulties.

+ - “HEEBLER maeeied fret ea 10 Cetaber 1960 Elena nso KOHL BECKOVA,

whe died on 7 Gepterbar 1950. They had two Britieh hora children.

' On 128 Beceomber 1990 he married a Uritich subject aamed Foskt GULD,

by whom ba bas ona child, The Haile lived at verieus addresous in
Leadon until abost 1954, cince when they have lived in Seseen, Thelz
peocent addwese ie 33 Gerald Road, Worthing.”

 

 

we

is tra IS a3

  
 
  
  
    
    
  
 
   
  
 
  
  

 

   
74-0000

 

 

PID/S#sS indices checked 10 Feb 61 - Negotive results _
Dr, Jakob Y. FISCHER

HAYANKO Hanako 9 Common-law Japanese wife

Rheinlend German Kitchen.

BH

5
an
5
i

i

!

     

 

mo BER on

 

4

 

ee eS RISER ORSON ARR SANE tn AON
?

 

 

 

sb RMTUA STN Bes hiss AM POTS, SRG Be Mace Pr RIS RA ag PEST EEA NER a: HRT

 

TASCRP ERS ved
 

 

 

a

rea -

ro
ei ee ee

   

that this onwa itecs was discussed with who
advised that they were unable to develop any information either to reiute
ev te support the etery ae carried ts the press, However, [_lindicated
that thay consider It probable that the actual source was a certain Joseph
HEISLEM,. sora 7 daly Ll bl in Csechoelvahia, who ie believed to have
bees waed at tiass a8 @ Coniact by ify, Hoary &. MAULE, the chief
Lendoa correspondent of The New Yerk Times", HEILLER on cecasion
hae baid claim to havieg sources behind the Iron Curtain, but|_ lie of
the epielen that. he probably obtains his information Ircim a Caech
Refugee organization, aot further ideatified by name. They atsa indie
cated that the Britteh coneidor is highly improbable that there is acy
teath ia this particular story. :

 

 

$. Our records indicate that the above Joseph HilsLER, who
first arrived in the United Kingdon tn 193%, aad since then has engazed
ta vartane oxsport-lmpert traovactionsa, may already be kucewn te your
Department. He first cama te attention iu September 2457 when our
Peproseciatives in Lendon were requested to obtaif” —sitraeos on
BEISLER for Mr, Ciinten Gresa, USIS representative in Londen, wha
bad rezetved_en unsolicited appresch (rom a J, Sevaard HUTTON,
identiiied by jas Joseph HXISLER., Cur records indicate that a
report of My, Greee'e contacts with HSISLER was ferwarded te USLA
Hoeedguartere is late 1957, and that certain decuments veolating to
HEISLLR's impart-eupert oporatiens were forwarded by the seonsmic
Selense Uilies representatives in London to your Departinent st about
the oume time. The files show that a full copy of the epert, sage
geoting that J. Barnard HUTTON be identical with Juceoph HEISLER
accompasied the repert ty USLA Neadquarices. A copy uf these traces
ia provided (or your cenvenicnce, a6 aitachmeut herewith.

 

 

 

& We note that in 2 reply to prepared by cur represeutaq
tives in response to the above mentivacd traces um MEISLER, mention
ie made af a 1566 visa application Sled by HEIWLER, presumably for
eulry inte the United States, although the actual reference is net availe
able. It is requested that any additiesal information which may be
reflected in the indices of the Department of State with reference to
Jonegh HAISLER's vies application and ua bis contacts with Comintera
oF Soviet Intelligence clilclala or vegaaizatione, be provided te this
Agency an expoditiousty ae possible.

% The foregeing informatics is reatricted for ieteraal use of the

 

  

 
(tocetnato-tozas], . oo, - FO

 

; a 3

  

HX-31

81 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Ospartmont of State

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
  

 

 

{
'
swirestas, Cilice of Security ; i 3
, . ' 4
ATBENTION: — ide. Emery J. Adams :
SUBJECT: MARTIN, William : 4 j
oo (MITCHELL, Beran - ee amar tes |
|
|
. 4 :
l, BRoferonce is mada to your lettor of 34 Cwtohor 1962 eagtioned i : 5

“MAATIN, Willem and MITCHELL, Burtan', end te pour gecent lettar
of 16 Jasusry $462, eaptiossd as above, your fite reference ST:MMU.

& cepy af tha newe article rayurding Subjects, which eppoared in ths
Mow Yerk Dally Nowa Senday iditica of 1] Soptember 1.60. We regret
that theough an overnight your letter was act tramediately ackeowled.ag
and oe indication provided to you of the status of the ection uedertasen
is. vaspenes te your queries. la the interim, bewover, the noceseary
action gud file checks have been cempicted, and the reoults are veperied
balew.

\
& Thasak you fer yous letter of 16 Cateber 1466, which euclored |
:
i

$. With reforemce to the newe article itself, and your requect tor
veriisatius of tia informatica Poported Iu tae press, & check of ou ,
records failed te develop any information partatning to ths ailegatton
that Subjects joined the Comeualst Party is Fabruary 195%, and that
-. hele party eames were "Martin WILMAMI" ead “Mitek DEANCH™,

respectively. if is cuggected that you may wish tc rofer thie question

(0 the Federal Sereau of investigative, ay wo nste that neither of the
above referencas indicates that a copy was forwerded te the Barcay,

1. identity of the refugee organiuation which allogedly obtainsd o Gulletin -
a ' ¢ontataing this information, appropriate iaquiries have been made by
. OGP representatives in Londen. The latter advieed ix lais December 1940

stay

{

i

‘

i

i

| nog that a eeparate inquiry wae betag made of that effice. |
| . 4 Wh reforence to cur request for information eenceraiag the
{

+

   

 

    
4000s

 

addreveeces oaly, and mey aot be disseminated cotelde the addreseces
oeffiee whikout the prior approval af the originator.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTCA (PLANS)S

&e etaied

ae watts) Federal Boreas of Investigation
ce watt: Natlenal Security Ageacy
Atta! Ma, & Yeoley Reyoolda

DD/P /F1/D/APoteckiimem

Distribution:
Orig & lw/ett « Addressee
b w/att ~ 100-6-124/3
h w/att « 201-282337-
Lw/att - 201-282338
2 w/l att - OS/SRS
1 w/att - 201-207250 (Joseph HEISLER)
1 w/att « chrono :

Based on: OELW 18040
. OELA 32666
OELA 21634 .

   
  
    
   
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
   

 

 
   
74-00000

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

em tot es ent nt et ene er Ae eegpeamee emmee nie H tecceme

 

ATTACHMENT

‘[ think there is no dvabt from the particulars aed descriptiun
gives in. paragraph 4 of that letter that the man in whom you are cur-
gently iutorcated ie Joseph iZISLER, bora 7 July 1511, 6 Gseckssies
vahian national whe (iret arrived ia the U,#, 0a 20 duns 2539,

“EISLER was educated in Chrast until 1930, when he went to
Berlin aad studied medicine. bu 1933 he returned to Crechaslovania
and beeame a journalist. according te his own statement made to the
British Police in Goptember 1-44, HZISLAR became interested in Cocm-

,  tusniom in Bertin fa 1930 and joined the Communiat Party in 1932, He

wrote articles jor a communist periodical called “Red est’ and was

asecclated with the organization “Red Help, {s 1733 he trenslerred te
the Caech Communiat Party and wrote for “Rude Peave.” ia April 143¢
he went to ricecow and obtained employment on the atal{ of the “Moscow

Eventeag News.

“According to a useally reliable suurce HEISLER attended the
Lesin School in Moecew is ebeut 1937. He admitted visiting the Leain”
Schoo but malotained that he had never attendad oa inieusive couzes of
pelitical instruction. He aloy claimed that in 1535 he had been invited
to become fo citizen of tho U.5.5.A., but he had wefused, and that by

(1935 be was ao longer & mamber of the Cocamanist Party.

“after his arrival isn the U.K. NEISLER joined the Thomas Mana
group of Cacch Jowrpalists. (Thio was one of the omigre growpe formed
wander the Caosh Refuges Trust Fuad}. Ho waa reliably reported to bo &

Communist at taal Usne:  HalsLEa was employed by the Coach Ministry:

for Foreign Affaire {rem absut August 3941 until February 1746 a8 a
radio comraoontator and tranctator. He is known to hava anid that be
vecelved  calary from the Caoch Embassy “fer propagasda.” After
the war he made several visits to Csochoolovakias on the isst occasion
be returned ta this country en 2i february 1706, Although he claims

. te have resigned from Ceech Government employmant at the time of the

Comnsantot coup d'etat, reliable ecarcos show that he wae, at least until
Geteber 1.44, a contact of Dr. ZEMAH, who at that time wee Sacead
Seerotary in the Ceech Exnceacy and the representative there af ths
Caech Ministry of the Interiov, HEISLEX waa strongly suspected of |
acting. as aa agent for ZLiAN. He was aloo reported te be posing ac a

_ Socialist bet in reality te bo 8 Comemmict, ;

Parakey

 

   
 
 

 

 

 
