 

ip

 

«

se SECRET

in connection with the above incident was the Information
Council of tne Americas. According to Paul Oberst, of the
Cugan Operations Group (COG/CA) CIA did not fund this
organization although we had contacts with some of its mem-
bers.

5. It is abunvantly clear that the DRE had no part
in the Kennedy assassination. swald S never a member
of tne DRE, wnhicn in fact, rejected him. In ‘developing
information regarding CIA‘s relations with the pPrr, I con=-
ferred with’ the Cuban Operations Grouo
vio recently returned from our with our "tiami station;
Carl Trettin, Denuty Chicf of the Ccuaterintelligence Branch
of the Cuban Operations Grouv who knew Bringuier and was
stationed in New Orleans at the time of the above incidents;
and Margaret Forsythe also of the Cuban desk who is thoroughly

familiar with the DRE operation.
CAAT CK low

 

“ AEDooley

 
 

 

oo, aan EL. BSC

‘SFound Use Only 3 APR i967

MEMORANDU'! FOR THE RECORD) '
i}

SUBJECT :f Possible DFE Animus Tovarcs President Kennedy
REFERENCE: “Memorandum & ‘larch 1967 sane subject

\

1. I checked into the alleged relationship between
Lee Harvey Oswald and the DRE with the following results.

2. The DRE was an anti-Communist student organization
funded covertly by CIA. It was known by the cryptonym
AMSPELL. In the fall of 1962, the DRE orqanization in Cuba
was penetrated and wrapped-up by the DGI. We continued to
provide nominal financial support to the DRE until September
1966 and terminated our relationshi> completely on amiable

terms 1 January 1967. |

. 3. According to the Warren Commissiori Report

(VOL. X, Pgs. 32-50), Lec Harvey Oswald approached Carlos
Bringuier, the New Orleans dclegate of the Cuban Student
Directorate on 5 August 1963 and voluntecred to join the
organization and to help train Cubans to fight against Castro.
Bringuier turned him down believing hin to be either an FET
informant or Comaunist penetration agent. On 9 August

some friends of Bringuier saw Oswald wearing a "Hands Off
Cuba" sign and distributing pro-Castro leaflets. They re-
ported it to Brinquier who angrily accosted Oswald on the
“street. A fight ensued and Bringuier and Oswald wore ar-
rested. On 21 August 1963 the two engaged in a radio debate,
Oswald identified nimself as a Marxist and defended the
Castro cause, Bringuier is referred to later in the Warren
Commission Report as the Nev Orleans delegate to the Revo-
lutionary Student Directorate (VOL. XI, Pg. 159).

 

4. Tnere is no doubt that the Commission actually
was referring to the Student Revolutionary Directorate ox

DRE as we term it. Another anti-Castro erganization mentioned, X
aS oom

 

 
