.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

i -
it is true that ‘Articles written by former employees would go to the Publications Review Board, but this is
not the case with respect to current employees. In the latter case, prepublication review falls within the —
purview of Directorate management, and probably should be reviewed by the Agency Release Panel.
Moreover, it may be confusing to equate classified information which may appear in a clasified Studies
edition with "proprietary" information which would not.

| also am concerned about the following statement:

I, as well as several of my predecessors, can recall no cases
of interference by Agency management -with the publication
decisions of the Board, no matter how sensitive the subject
matter or critical of the Agency. Indeed, it is the. :
antithesis of official information and the embodiment of
personal, academic: scholarship and work. The very intent is
academic in the context of educational mentoring from one
individual to those in succeeding generations. .
It is clearly true that the editorial board should decide if the article is of the quality to be in. Studies and to
decide if the topic is appropriate to that journal. It also is clear that Studies can and does’contain
information critical of the Agency. But there is a “need to know’ principle that must be enforced that
would not tolerate’a subject "no matter how sensitive” to be published. What if there is a highly’
compartmented program that should not be shared more broadly. We should not suggest that CS! would
have the right to open that compartment or suggest that management could not determine that such a
topic could not be given broader dissemination, even in a classified edition of Studies.

cc: i@ pci @ DA, le DA
Sent on 12 February 1 at 07:45:43 ”

 

 

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
 

104-10331-10352

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

TO: Lee S. Strickland @ DA

FROM: Edmund Cohen
OFFICE: OIM
DATE: 02/12/98 07:45:43 PM

SUBJECT: agRe: URGENT: Supp. Filing for JFK Board
Lee: Good paper, here are my suggestions.

1. The damage discussion drawing upon field input is the stronger part of the paper and perhaps should
come at the beginning of the paper (just reorder the questions they asked us).

2. In footnote 15 I'd drop the Virginia Law Review. Doesn't add much and confusing since next sentence
talks about DOD OGC views which are relevant to Naval Proceedings not the Law Review.

3., Can we press the DO for the missing station response. It raises an unnecessary issue as to why
there was too little time to get a response from that station when we were able to get three other
responses from equally important or more important stations.

4. paragraph 17 line six - after word "deepest" think you should add the word “official.”

5. para 18 (first para of quote line 10) “Addees" add a [bracket] indicating what this means - we know, the *
Board is likely to be mystified

Finally, in the affidavit, de we need to add some qualifiers about the classification review process. The
affidavit states:

If an article has been deemed to contain classified
information by its author, and it is subsequently requested to
be released, it will be reviewed by either the History Staff,
the Historical Review Program, or more recently by the
Publications Review Board -- pursuant to the personal
manuscript standards -- to allow declassification or the
creation of an unclassified version. By deeming or marking a
given article as classified, we represent only that this
personal writing contains some information of a proprietary
(hence classified) nature to the US Government; that fact does
not alter the nature of this private work or convert it into

an official federal record containing official government

information. .

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
