74-0000

 

G-65-40 -
Page 2

6. Mrs TSD/BAB, did make some graphological
analysis for Backster on a contract basis, and I believe she furnished
him my residence phone number, or perhaps Kimsey supplied it.

   

LON H.- THOMAS
TSD/GARB/QDS

. Distribution:

2 - Addressee

 

 
 

‘0g 10250-10082

 

G-65-40
22 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, TSD/OA
ATTENTION : Mr.

Info Re Conversation with Cleve Backster in
"Anastatia'' Matter (22, 838-X)

SUBJECT

1. In response to requestfrom Mr following are the
facts to the best of my recollection (I made some notes at the time, but
have just recently destroyed them) of my dealings with Cleve Backster
in the celebrated "Anastatia'" case. It has recently come to light, with
the publication in the Washington DAILY NEWS, 19 January 1965, of an
interview with Herman E. Kimsey, former Chief, TSD/GARB/A&R, that’
one Col. Michael Goleniewski, Polishdefector, might be related to
“Anastatia™, |

2. At about 2330 hours, sometime in February or March 1964

. (specific date not recalled) Cleve Backster, director or owner of the
Academy for Scientific Interrogation,. New York, called me at my -home

and attempted to engage me, on a private basis, as a handwriting expert
or questioned document examiner to examine and compare some hand-

writing specimens of a Chicago woman named Smith with the handwriting
of 'Anastatia" in an attempt to prove that Smith was thetrue "Anastatia''.

3. Ihave never met Backster but have known of him for about
10 years, have read some of his articles on the operation of the polygraph,
and did know that he is a long-time friend of Kimsey's. It is claimed,
by Kimsey at least, that Backster set up the polygraph (lie detector)
program for the Agency.

4, Ltold Backster during the conversation that it would be impossible
for me to do any work for him on the matter of trying to prove that Mrs.
Smith was the real ''Anastatia", citing heavy work load at the office or some
similar reason to placate him. (Frankly, from what I knew about him, his
connection or association with Kimsey, and entire muddled background of
the ''Anastatia'' matter, I was determined not to have any dealings with him. )

5. Ihave not had any conversation with him since. This was the

   

first and only one.

        

| GROUP
Pane from automatic

PS” Gavngrading and
tonlasaitication =

 

 

 
 

  
  
  
   

  
  
 

 

. , WASHINGTON
DANY

 

oa wees

“TUESDAY, JANUAI
1013 18th Si. NW. (20005) DY. TTT

44th Year—No. 62 ~ Second Class Postage Z

cITy EDITION

 
 
 
 
       
    
  
  
  
    
 
 
    
   

 

CIA head, and-John A.
present agency .: chief, .
reverse their policy’ of. ax
on all inquiries . - aboutteCoks
Goleniewski, who hast"
- weeks of testimo
Government security age
regarding involvementioa
Americans. in the rnd
spy. apparatueses, . and!
testify this year bef
congressional committees. aii

During the months ofa
when Col. Gole niewskits
antecedents. were underayCIA
scrutiny with the aidS¥of
information from Britis: bh
intelligence, - Mr: -Kimsey €
head ad of CIA's: ‘research s
 

 
 

 

0 DE 7-7777

i
i
i

 

 

| He said Allen Dulles,

_,, Goleniewski’s, .claims., for:* the

 
  
   

 

— _ | Weather |
. 2 ooo | Sunny: ‘and cold,
wes an . . . high 30, low. 18

a - an / + | Mostly. cloudy and
. TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1985 ; cold tomorrow.
vs 5 sno : Today aft
4 . Second Class Postage at Washington, D.C. . -| 8:00 A.M. ....18

Published Daily Except Sunday

 

live under his own name.
claim what is ‘rightful
‘Mr. Kimsey said...

CIA head, and-John A.)
present agency : chief,
reverse their policy: of si
on all inquiries about"
Goleniewski, who has’
weeks of testimon
Government security aj
regarding involvemeat

Americans in the communist
Spy. apparatueses, Sisto
testify this year befote
congressional committees. 27% +.

During ‘the months oBstel-
when Col. Goleniewskitys
antecedents: were undes::‘CIA
scrutiny with the  aid®s:
information from British
intelligence, Mr: Kimsey
head of CIA's research si

He is now — aidinggs
{independent investigation of Col

  

  
 
 
  

  

 
