 

 

3. Ithas since come to our attention that maritime operation PARROT
mounted by WAVE.on 22 August involved a scheduled rendezvous on Anguila

-key |between:'a WAVE asset and.two UR internal officials. The operation
' wad unsuccessful in that the two UR officials failed to make thé rendezvous -
as scheduled. WAVE is now planning ‘to rerun the operation on 30/31 ‘August. -

4, The above is being brought to your attention since our knowledge
of the use of Anguila as a rendezvous point may possibly cause some future
embarrassment. if the{ BFitiShjshould learn of it and mistakenly associate
it with the activities oY the exile group investigated by. Mr. (Bentley! =

; 0
5. Another development, at least peripherally involving the Bahamas, |
is described below: :

a. The U. S. Coast Guard on 21 August 1962 inquired as
to any interest we might have in one W. Carney, who, in turn,
is interested in obtalning rights on the Island of Navassa,
Navassa was described as lying thirty miles due west of the
westernmost tip of Haiti, and is under Coast Guard adminis-
tration, According to TFW/PM we have looked into the island
and found it uninhabited---and possibly uninhabitable---with
no water or harbor facilities. CI/Liaisun, at our instriction,
has informed the Coast Guard that we are not sponsoring Carney,
but probably had no objection, and would like more details,

. b. Carney describes himself as a retired marine engineer,
who owns property in the Bahamas, and who takes out private
fishing parties. He wants to usé Navassa as a private fishing
resort, a refueling station, and a watering point. The Coast _
Guard has apparently reminded him that there is no water and
no harborage on Navassa, but he is still interested,

ce. The Coast Guard has an unmanned radio station on the
island. For some legal reasons they cannot sell, or-even Jease,
property on the island, but they could give Carney a five year
revocable permit, maintaining the right to inspect and approve
any construction, ,

SECRET

 

Te
[t-tor7o-to0se

 

ao

 

4 Bentley, new. Kead of Special Branch ii thé Bahamas
investigation of a number of Cuban exiles on the‘ island of Anguila who allegedly

- separ

 

4 September 1962

MEMORANDUM: Chief, Task Force W

SUBJECT : British Press Speculation that DRE Ralders may
: have used British Territory as a Base

REFERENCE : DIR 32616 (OUT 70518)

This memorandum is for your information only, and
does not recommend action, Bits and pieces of infor-
mation have suddenly and recently appeared concerning

. Cuban exile activity in the Bahamas, and of equally

_ Suddén and recent probes by non-Cuban Bahamian resi-
dents, which may or may not mean something, I also
continue to be somewhat puzzled, _as_ mentioned below,
by_the tinusual attitude of Chief, “Special. Branch, > oy

Bahamian | Policd with regard to the. Anguila Island query.

1, In response to a recent request from the London Station for
guidance in the event {it is querie concerning the DRE raid ‘on
Cuba, mainly resulting from Bri eculation that the raiders may
lave used.a secret’base in the Bahamas, the Station was informed that the
DRE, in a press conference of 25 August, said that the boats had sailed from
Marathon in the Florida keys, and that British territory apparently was not
involved, Also that the raid was launched without our knowledge or support.

2. In addition, on 27 August 1962, the FBI informed Mr. Wallen that sree 08, ov

it had received an inquiry, by way of its ‘Miami field office from Mr. Gregg —
concerning his recent

 

 

told him they were there on a CIA mission, Mr. Bentley)claimed to bec concerned 06.
r firough the Colonial>24

‘because he would of course have to report the mat! h the C

Office: but would very much disliké having to do this if it was: actually a CIA

- operation, Mr, Wallen suggested that the Bureau: might inform Mr, (Bentiey}. 6

that the activity was definitely not Agency sponsored, but that we might get

in touch with him at Some point through] n this and similar problems, > 24
C/TFW, in being informed of this report, sfated that he also had recently re-.
ceived the same query from th n Washington, D, C. sey
and had also-denied any Agency involvement. The above was brought to London
Station's attention with the comment that because of coincidence and logical
placement Anguila conceivably could have neem used by the raiders as a staging

area and base.
seer (77 /2%~26-

 

‘ygo 0 egy?
Backus rode ; USB. :
 

 

S SEonET

. Page 3

 

d. The Coast Guard is continuing to check into Carney, and
will probably give him the permission he is seeking if they find
nothing : -derogatory on him., Although Carney is a permanent
a vésident of the Bahamas, he also has a.New York address which

H was ‘given as 655 Pelham Parkway, North, Bronx 67, New York,

6. In addition, an Agency contact, a resident of the Bahamas, who.
avels extensively throughout the islands, recently reported that he had
personally obsérved during a trip through’ the southern keys that several
“of thé keys which previously were uninhabited were now occupied by a

number of Cuban exiles, According to. source, the\British. authorities)” aa
‘apparently are puzzled'as to their presence there as is to what to do
about it.

  

7. Much of the above Indicates that a number of Cuban exiles are ul
showing up in remote areas of the Bahamas, and the British\are no. doubt
concerned over their. presence and possible CIA involvement.. Mr, (Bentleys
query concerning the grou of | of exiles he allegedly investigated on Anguila oe
\\ Island-emphasizes (British toncern)- t-atso-sounds’ somewhat provocative
Ob.in that Mr. (Bentley\claimis to hav thought ‘it prudent, after having been

    

on,

 

 

 

 

 

PON

 

Aon,
- VICTOR WALLEN
C/TFW/CI

SECRET
