 

$04-10007-10149

 

 

 

for FOIA Review on

 

   

stp 1976

* ave dealing with a disturbed mentality as well.

XAAZ- 363 Zo. |

23 December 1966

MEMORANDUM TO: 1C/SB/SOV
FROM 3

SUBJECT Suggested Graphological Assessment of OSWALD
: Handwriting

   

1. I discussed this informally with Mr. Arthur Dooley, CI Staff,
who is knowledgeable on the OSWALD Case. Mr. Dooley mentioned that a
graphological assessment had not been done to his knowledge to determine
if personality restructuring had been attempted on OSWALD in the USSR. -
Mr. Dooley questioned whether such an assessment would really make a
worthwhile or reliable contribution to the issue of OSWALD's motivation,
and warrant the time and expense involved; that if such an assessment
was attenpted in any formal sort of fashion, the “official” results... - z
may only add confusion to the motivation issue, since such results 4
would not have truly scientific validity. He noted that the samples, .
to his recollection, represented verious environmental conditions ranging
from nomnal passport applications, to condénsed diary notations and notesy “~*~
that a child's handwriting changes from grade school to college as the -
speed of notetaking increases and the pressure mamts. In this case you »

 

 

2. Based on his fenilarity with the case Mr. Dooley feels that
OSWALD's motivation is largely explained in temas of his neurotic background,
his failure to achieve status, and his very desp resentment to all authority.
After his stay in the Soviet Union, OSHALD’ s writings indicate that ho fel€ =~
neither society had much to offer; and in effect, he rejected both. _é

3. Mr. Dooley noted that undoubtedly other factors came inte play @&.
formulate COSWALD's idea to assassinate the President. For example,
saw s movie on TV about an attempted presidential assassination with a rifle = |
shortly before his deed, which could have sparked him into action, As the
Warren Commission has indicated, the real motive may never be known.

    

4, Mr, Dooley said that the files are available for inspection by an
SB officer at any time to-look for handwriting samples or any other purpese,
em of the above, he did not feel that anything could be proved for

| therefore questioned the merit of the suggestion at this tire.

vad

 

iy i
ti 10. ( HOG. y

pveaT RES. ri

 

 

 

 

324

Wil a37o-v F
