 

ac ec amy - RETUANTO CIA faint
LO INTERNAL USE ONLY wareeay BB ; ae ie
we cou EWTIAL Sree HC “"

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Tuesday - 24 May 1977 .

 

15, (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Jack Boese, Department of
Justice Civil Division, who is handling the AT&T case, referenced my
discussion. with Irwin Goldbloom, Deputy Assistant Attorney General,
Civil Division, on the Rule XI problem as it relates to the Harrington
case. In response to his request, I said I would see what I could.
do in providing a citation to committee reports in the incident.

16. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Talked further with Bob
‘Turner, staff of Senator Robert Griffin (R., Mich.), about the proposed
amendment to the ACDA authorization bill to ensure that the amendment
will not be construed to require disclosure of sensitive intelligence
sources and methods.

17. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Steve Fallis, staff of the
Hous mittee on Assassinations,..Galied to report that Chairman
Louis Stokes (D., 10) would like to turn over in his office directly to
_either George Cary or his designee for review and determinatita under “! -
“DCID 1/14, the background investigation reports on Committee staffers by
the FBI. We will make the appointment directly with Chairman Stokes!
personal office, 225-7032. : :

 

 

08 (Confidential -~DFM) BRIEFING Accompanied Ron Estes,
and Evvy Vidal, DDO, toa briefing of Ed Levine, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, on th 5 Pevine
had asked for the briefing in connection with Senator Clifford Case's (R., N.J.}
upcoming trip to Belgium. At the end of the one and one-half hour briefing,
Levine called the Senator's office to find out his exact itinerary so that we
could cable it to the Station and Levine was informed the Senator had changed
his mind and decided not to take the trip.

Later in the day, Levine told me he decided to prepare a 1 report for

the Committee records anyway and asked me a few more questions about the
Station. lIagreed to. provide answers, :

 

19. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Received from Stan Taylor, Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence staff, a list of Brigham Young students who
would be attending the scheduled 27 May lecture at the CIA on the Agency.

Taylor also gave me a resume of his friend who was interested in

employment at the Agency. _
os | 9ES8

apd INTERNA} H&E Anes
