104-10210-10029

 

s . :
B. 6 never completed it; I do not i:nov wat it is; I do not csow,

 

A. It is not vory important to the NVD, but -~ in accordance with a CC CPSU

éecision -—~ every employee fills it out,
B. I do nor now, I do not “now
A. It represents a true picture of the educated enplovees.
B. ‘haat goes into it

A, There is the usual information in it, hut I do not want to explain

what there is.
B, I do not now, I do not know.

A, It begins with the questions -- surnane, first nane, patronymic; date
and place of birth; social background; duration of Party ucnbershinp;
Party identification card nunber.

This sheet is, Aas thoy say, 2 Darty-Xomsaemol record: it is completed
by each employee; it is included in the Somsunnell file before the
anketa,

*

B. I absolutely do not remember this sheet or its conpletion, absolutely.
A. Tnis, again, is one of the proofs that forces the conclusion that....
B. Honest, I absolutely do not renember this sheet or *ts completion inthe

Personal files into which I looked,
~ ¥ looked into Personnel files. vee egg acing .

 

Folger ete fa

 

Becavse in 1962, 1963, we hired for the Third Section, restaurants and

: hotels, a large number of former KGB employees as non-staffers; only

 

former enplovees,.

Ard I do not remember this ((sheet)).

sane SPO

Sebold
rar

a

 
104-10210-10029

A. You rrohably saw their Bersonnel files, because -- “en 2 ann ts
¥ ‘ :
* released <= his file is sent to the Archivos, then anyone can take the

 

file if ne wants to make use of this enployee.
CQNG; A and 3 speak at the sane tine))
B. I absolutely do not remember this sheet.

A. How do you explain that you do not remember your Barty card nunber
py as 3 y

 

B. I do not remenber it, I do not ronenaber.

((XG; A and B speak at the sane tine))

Loot: =- hear ne out, please; you asked ne way I do not remenber it -
I will tell you: you pay your dues; you go to 2 meeting and you !:now
you have to shov your card, so you tae it with you; I did not have to

give the number; I take it along: you keep it in the safe....

A. Ian not asking because anyone waats to know this nuaber; but there
is a procedure in the Comaunist Party of the Soviet Union ~- every

member of tho Party is obliged to t:now the number of his Party card.
(iG; A and 3B speak at the same time))

Xt is not written ((in the Regulations)), but there is a procedure and

the Party Secretary alwars ass.

A. I do not want to exaggerate, but I simply want to say that the
Secr2tary always asks when a man pays kis dues -- particularly new

menbers, if they remember the number of their Party card.

    

a a Ce a ee er ec cece, aecae oe

B. Well, they could ask; absolutely right.
: ' ((xG; A and B speak at the same tine))

| : "A, It 4s, as they say, in the blood stream of every Party member —~

 
104-10210-10029

 

‘eontirn

ation of saat you call tie tretn.

 

GB. ‘TY am tellin: you only the truth, absolutely.

 

(GG; A and 2 sn

 

a 2
A. Well, you are forgetting that we ha e@ just fin sacd talling for the
last whe about the anieta, and you could n answer the simplest things.

 

B.° TI aa tellin: you waat I remenaber.

he

One cannot believe that you worked there; I to not know what keeps you
ps y'

Zrom tali:ing sense, as they say,
B. Well, wey do you say that

A: ((Pause)) Well, one more question — what do you know about the

Personnel record sheet (lichnyy listo: po uchetyu adrov).
B. What Personnel record sheet?

A&A. What is the Personnel record sheet’

Waat kind of document is it:
B, I co not know; I do not know the Personnel record sheet, I do not know.

A. Well, on every Party member and every Komsomol member vorking in the , i
organs of the iVvD or an governnent work, or even 2 non-—Darty member
having sone higher education or qualifications and on whom there is ‘a
personnel file in the KGB or the Council of Hinisters or the CC CPSU
and so forth... the CPSU Central Committee issues this Personnel record

sheet; it is sone sort of anketa.
B. I do not know it.

| . A. It is completed by everyone.

pee :
wtint

 
104-10210-10029

a -

A.

 

 

as I heard. : ,

Measures are tvien and tue relatives are put under control.
Dut why control tian.
Vell, perhans a letter sight yo throtuuh.

Well, anyway ({it is said that)) the iGo aus changed; thoy are so ood

and liteable....

Who told you that.

Tat is waat they write.
"Tacy erite® jaws

They simply are so kind that they are kissing the Soviet people's asses,

Oh, yes.

Well, ix they are not so good, in your cpinion, then....

C(XG; A and EB speak at the sane tine))

«..What is holding you back from opening your heart and forgetting your

past:

They ((the KGD)) are entirely to blame, etc.; way do you not make up

your mind to say, “Screw them", and begin from the very beginning and : 4
tell the truth.

I am telling you only the truth; if there were some small....

((ZG; A and B speak at the same time))

Well, I have been talking with you for 3 days, and I do not see any

 
104-10210-10029 ee

 

P| BD, Well, they did not say “nothing” +. that is risht; &t would be rude.... i
It is risht that I have oxagcented: absolutely right. :
Now many tines has it been said, “Vell, what kind of a worker were you.

Whaat kind. *

A, We still do not have the EGR here -- we have not come to that yet,

3. Right, right; yes -- you have not cone to that but... somewhat... |
sonething I did not expect from Amcrican intelligence or countcrintellie
gence.
4. What, for exanple>
B, Let us not talk about it -- this is a stage that already has been
passed; it is behind.
.

A, Well, I an interested in knowing.

B. You know everything very weil.

You know every letter, every stage; you know everything
A. If I knew everything, then we would not have to be talking..
B. No, I say, what was, was; you know.

A. I do not know wnat you have in mind; I do not think that we did
anything unusual; I do not think there was anything out of the

ordinary; it was just everyday life.

B. That is not life; it was a sad existence.

A. Well, let us see, let us talk about it -~ whose fault is it.

 

: B. Well, how is it my fault. on
[ Tell me why it is ny fault; tell me shy I an doing time, tell me why

 
104-10210-10029

  

Ioan doing tine.
You tell ne, “We do not believe you" ((sut)) this is not a reason for
a man to do tine.

A. Do not loo: for the entire fault in yourself; I an not biasins: only you..
B, No, I understand -= that over there ((the “Gh))....

A. Yes, “over there’...

B.  ...=scuse ne, they are crapping on uc....

A. ...¥es, “over there", “over there".

B. I understand that, over there, they.. eo

A, What -- “over there"

B. Well... that they -— throussh the agent network and through trusted
persons, etc. -= they are “giving it to"me.
I know hov it is done, how 4 man can be turned into nothing, into
nothing!
I know this.
Whether you want it or not, there is sonething coming from over there;

I know uwbout this very well.

A, We will tal: about waat is coning ((from over therc)) and waat is not
coming.
Of course, you are interested in knowing what is coming; but I would

like to know what you think is going on there.

B. What do I think.
What do I think:

I think, I lmow, that, of course, a decision already has been made
about me, and they have seatenced ne to death; and some kind of case

| has been opened against me, just as a case was opened against GOLITSYN,

  
104-10210-10029

 

Reel #5

29 July 1965 ‘

TRANSLATION

A. ... (CI£)) you had it. {
And waen we come to your education we will add it to what I have said
({about parents, background, etc.)) <= your education in high school,
the Navy school, and the Institute of International Relations.
B. I do not know what you want to say.
H

A. I want to say that ((since)) you have found the ((in Inglish)) excuse
of "taking into account ny higher education," we will return to this
question; I just want to remind you so that you will not forget.

I will put this all together....
B. (.Please. or -too bad. )

A. ...In time....

B. Of course, sf course.
A. I would lixe you to find something better....

B. I cannot find anything better, because I did not decide the question é

about myself; I do not know how the question was decided....

et ae Rate tate tame te

 

A. I am asking you, from the point of view of a counterintelligence

a4 officer, how do you (:evaluate:) ((this)).

 

'B. And I do not intend to resolve the question of ny life -on ((to confora 3
“with)) one date, APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1904 = |

a CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM»

a zee |

 
 

-

   

SO sechee
 
 
   
  
 

104- 10210-10029  "==remeneene ARTA ALE NAS BEIM OAR RIE EL ATRESIA EE UNE RITE re a

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CYA HEADQUARTERS BY
_ HOUSE SELECT COMMLTTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

a in, yee Released snalin con F. Kennedy
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: TK fs, SOL L°7 f

SOUT Records Collection Act af 194
Se nae nee
hee ron . is

INCLUSIVE DATES: QNAY (OL 5 > Be TUM (US

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: — ~S@_ ; _ §

a

 

 

 

ROOM: - a ee +

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

 

DATE DATE r 5
RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL {

G ay a _ Mhe wk Sta (oF ~The Sah A E

 

    

ce dete seve and

che tae a hae UP YE tet aenn Aetie Ms

NO LCOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

a ce

Bo etalaevntartnc ted Aarne

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAR

= hale ath, Ba nore re

 
104-10210-10029

ee

—

ye

B.

B.

A.

 

reer

  

Place yourscl? in the place of SIURIYANOY or FEDOTO’, having in mind
the position of ((sone)) IVANGV. as if it were yours «. what would be

your decision. Be

I do not know; if I-were in his place, taen it would be another thing

(xg).

Because you told us at. one tine that you were a worthy counter}
intellivoncse officer,

Dut now you modestly say that you wore such a sliaple, little....
In 1953, in 1954....

..A little case officer.

Now, why are you turning thints around

That is not right.

In 1953, 1954, 1935 and 1956, I really was nothing; I sms only a case
officer.

If you are talking about 1954, you are right.

Yes.

Right; waat do you want me to tel2 you -- that in 1954 they valued ne

and liked me and respected me.

Oh, do you remember, in the beginning, in the beginning, when you

‘had just established contact with us, hew ({you said)) you had worled

against the journalists, against nilitary attaches, and that you had

recruited dozens of Americans, and so forth.

 

Not. at all, not at all; you do not have to... you do not have to paint

things that way...

((%G; A and BR speak at the same time))

 

 

 

 
104-10210-10029

 

I can sinply reaind you of that which you said earlier: nothing more.

 

You do not have to paint things that way.

Anyway let us think about where the bones lie hidden.

i
i
i
;
+
i

((Long pause)) I do not know, I do not know.

What kind of bones’

Where. ¢
I do not tnow.

((Long sause)) I do not snow,

What tud of bones’

I do rut luow anything.

I never said that I was an ideal and outstanding worker.

I worked as I could and as I had to.

I never said that I had recruited dozens, !
If I participated, I participated.

I have told how they treated ne.

As if you were the best man, they sent you to Geneva... as the best

' counterin telliccnce officer.

How “as the best".
In 1962, it was necessary for them to send net a senior case officer,

nor a case officer, but someone higher.

Well, that you were bigger does not fit -- I do not see it.

You understand ~- if you somewhere somewhat....

((interrupts)) You know, this will not kill me, because I already have

   

heard this 482 _((times)) — I have heard that I was not.a good employee
that I am nothing. ,

I have heard this more than once; please continue in the same spirit.

I do not think that anyone told you that you are nothing,
