74-0000

 

 

se ne IE ST

Se eenterannn mete aiinntey : yatte ry en ements
: :

etree etre ot wt Hho td

\

&

 

va
we
“ee

a
‘oa 10174-10056

 

‘ RETURN To ©
. . ‘ ; P8cksround d Use con ;
+ eat oo 9 Nok, “brodaés nly... Sayin : on

TOTS —
DISPATCH | SECRET asa..7160

Tey
Cnet of Biatlen, Ushese

mer

   
   

i

|

| _ oper Samal Raa

~ | Pelition’ Ory.ciear « Rdwmend Oe Thebvern (P)
i

  
 
 

NO wate NOUR

BY Qua OQ OE ORY

   

Staten | commento by eente

epee ae

1. The eenler MCAS aff bes Poarulted a wuxkor ef iadividaals whe bare
bed cutansive experiences in pelisier, particularly as empaiga massgere 24
polities! organisers. Very reeeatiy ont ef theve ergmisere wae pont (te :
where be eas in contact with the Siwtlon and th: tas prinaipal egente a
1 pelidigal evticn project. In adiltien te Mio cenverertiens adth thee indtyigesta
I he alse traveled erommi the acca and talked te a muader of axtcltting ladicideale
' prior to meeting ogaia with Station paresane] amd the principal agente. Ag @
3 veoult of his enrersstions ant af Bia delving into the legs) politienl scam,
| - be was able ie gees up wilh e4 exeeadinzgly Lafernsd assenenmt ef the legal
1 pelities] evers af well 2s ceamwta retowsendstlens im magard te the exoenieetian
! ef the palitisal estiea faetions belag sarperted by AUMES, ples rosrmecdatiens
' a4 to how they should proesed toward soetiag thal issediate predlens, mich
‘ dmeleded the melding of s ceaber ef divergent festtans inte « sesreive angal-
satles sapsble af enited artiaa ageiwet the Commmists at the polla, the fteties
sue pleased with the results alvset to the letter ia thedy yeoummodritens te

Keaiqesrters,
2. Tt be Reaspiartore? Pecliag that Edward O. TIGER, dvewlbed fa.

Payegreph ® telew, semld perfern a vary Baw. Coda ainilar te that .
which the ergeniser seatlansi above parfermed(ia If provided with g
galteble corer story, TICSKYR ould wielt iateaioe VAiodA (uke we eaterstazt Le

wey reepwering fren o reotat sutemekile aceident), sureliane SaNCHs Araage ang
ether vegiews) and mational politisal leaders. Gm tie kagia of bie dlemeniend
with thes he should be able to aeme ep with «2 maxber ef preetival euggeatiens
Pr whieh womld be ef valaa in ieplasesting. ANTATSOL end other fatere political
Se . setien projects. Tus sdvantages which m orzeniaor ef thie type offern te @
an field staties are, firet, that bole a spesielist in the dotealle of presiies]
; peiiiion-a treed aad sexmlen flald of enteaver—and sevemd, taal Bo talka te
fellow politiotans as a mot-effiatal preatiaioner of tbat art aad is usiehibited
by any evert eemmsetion wita O5FSN2..

3. 43% ba prepeeed, tharefare, that TICHH RH be cent to pour Hotlea oa
\ TOX for 30 days te consult with Station parvanme) asf te talk te TANGA, SAME,

and ethere. We showld like ta heve ywur euoxsents ou this prupesal as wll ag
weatever ideas yeu may have’ om ubat cuver etary TICHAGRY could ese Geriag ais
f

talke with the political lesare involved. I is the bellaf of Hesdgearters m
seotions by the Stations a osteral atfiaity of incereet beteees TcueDe eed. wh 4
deotiona by the Stetica, a satural affinity ef jaterest betewoa TICRAWE wel 1” ,
: they Oshaas ill serve te cstahliea recpart quiurly. dlthengh the TO of .
on TICHEURY would be ef vales chiefly da eamertion with AW ATROL, wa eould preter
' / that be be oont Ameadiately, befure fieel preject approcul. oF os 6

  

 

 

 

[ae is

& prosilelss attaragy ami Ase bad a gf @eeli of poliiieal axptri<asa, Ss
wargeseootwlly fer « biga affies an

io is @ Pal Beta 2appa; uno proaident

perLisbed s maper of erilales ch lav Sd View TUNe is ae Rear lean Seas

Maziess parents, wha speaks active Hexioes Ipeaieh cad dus 4 typleel Eecdoes
egpesrnnee) he sould psoe fee a kaxioua, ve bas om severa} seas tons visited Za”

cl :

 

° E & TOURS was dare in/

 

a

 
