E.

_ with the KURTO? automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such

-, - investigation or house se
' ing material from the premises. . :
' in one evening and could again be cleaned, probably in less time » if. clreumstances

 

Commmication is primarily with BITED with LIONION-2 only in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls |
from LIONION=1 go through a telephone cut-out) » are usually held at the
LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment » Which would appear to be a LIONION-1 |
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIOT technician, ‘ ;
Hugh T. FRANCOITE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week. The Case Officer,
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 knows
the true naze of the Case Officer; he does not know FRANCOLTE's true identity.

Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered by Mexican
authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed
to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JMVAVE
area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income. This would probably hold up unless they were caught in flagrante

refinement and complexity as to be ‘difficult to aseribe to an exile organization.
In any evert, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his ow protection,

 

 
   

.... Under Mexican law, a
not illegal, therefore uncov,
itself result in arrest or.

ot the phot operation -would not of 2.0 -:.-
Q efit) ually. possible to stave off - :.

ul hep Bo le sufficient to”remove compromis-°~
The house was once cleaned completely --

(phot activity of the project is on

    

8

   
 

   

   

should warrant. ~- ; : .

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.
On one occasion AMKNOB-1, a JMWAVE asset, was shown a nearby building (not the
LIONION bese) by a PBRUMEN Embassy officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo |
base. i : |

i

LIONION-1 is kmown by sight to some PBRUMEN Enbassy staff personnel who have
observed him in the neighborhood. :Presumably they believe he is a Mexican. To
avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the. .
PRRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURIOT in separate 7
correspondence to prepare new passports: for both LIONION agents so that they may
travel outside Mexico. ~ | : a - ee Te es

 

 

 

. Security measures employed “in ‘this operation are designed to. xake. it’ virtually

- impossible for any opposition service to link LIONION. personnel with the Stetion,

‘“ Cooréination:* Coordination witir other PBPRIS elenenté

    

tle Mexican’ government

  

ts not necessary at this time and none is onviseBede re
—«REPROETION

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

te este ee tee pe ecco

 

  

 

 

rhAY ; ,
G. Costs. The total apne: oe Le Tis $10,478, distributed
as snow below: Whee set bey
5 ry 66 Total
LIOUICH-1 salary
13 months @ $320 51920 $22ho $4150
LIONTON-2 ett :
13 months @ $150 990 1050 1950
Real estate rentals
OH Basehouse 600 600 1200
LICNICH Safehouse 264 264 5238
Jtilivies on both houses 150 150 ; 300
Supplies 1170 LL7O 23h0

(Pactographic film, paper, ~—
' ehenicals, and niscellaneous)

 
 

 

bonus. s
$320 nont*
sales positic

vats salary. LIQE. was reised from $200 to
196 to compensate in part for his renuneiation of a
oréer that he might devote his full time to the LICNIONU

aL Diba : Dae
for oo PRQuIEN 4 FE no custonary year | ond
ee)

  
  

operation. -2's salary has remained at $150 per month since her
recruitment Ilo salary changes are contemplated during the

"3

project yes

 

 

 

 

 
 
     

 

 
14-00000

re

 

 

Lawrence F, BARKER

aN cmon Y

: ~ Willard Cy CURTIS *

- STATION
7 Son

    

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval.

   
    

~ poohog3

ad oa

 
  

2 uit

Sout 65 00 |
. bs. b-/2a//

AB gna, RSA BP PEM

 

 

|

CRYPTONYM ___L-TONTON FIELD CASE OFFICER Lawwues FE bos
i
. |

}
{
i
,
 

104-10086-10059

ra

  

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

 
  

  

Project LIONTON
ACTION REQUIRED ~ REFERENCES

Reference: ELMW-13207, 14 December 196k

    
 
      
 

1. Attached by split transmission is an outline for Project LIONTON
covering the services of the two agents heretofore known as LIFEUD~22
(201-288248) ana SIPEUD-23 (201-30560l) , This
Paragraph 4h, Page 9 of the LIRANCH project outline transmitted by Referenne,

    
 
        
        
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
   

2. To avoid re-typing at Headquarters the Station hag taken the liberty

of provisionaliz assigning eryptonyms LIONION~1 and LIONION-2 to these agents,
Please advise i> chis is correct, .

Attachment: :
Project Outline, left side h/w
Project Outline, risht side use

 

35 REFERENCE TO.

    

   
    

IEMA-2511000
CLASSIFICATION .

—SECRED 5

6 January 1965
oa HQS FILE NUMBER

[50-6-222/1

ee

   
 

 

COPY KO.
14-00000

 

 

“ Background. This proje

1962 and costs have heng
- operation produces photographs ©:

_the vicinity, the Station's mobile surveillance assets camnot =

.

 

 
  
 

 

sitatall City.
Din . . .
“ rnish photographic coverage .

of the target installation, (2) © —
adispateh physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the .

target, end (3) keep in readiness:a listening post for the monitoring and. -
recording of eventual technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PBRUMEN Embassy compound (including
Consulate) in Mexico City.’ The above-listed objectives are accomplished by
two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street fron
the target. | -. .

: \ : : :

The project is in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1, of the —.
current Related Mission Directive) for Mexico. — ; . a

  
 
   
   
     

does. not represent a n ty has been going on-sime.

-FI. funds. The

     

oto, ‘normally reviewed for identi-
fications by the PBRUMEN s leit th ; then shown, separately to

LITAMIL-9, end LEPAMIL-% whd are (ere ieatton-agents working inside the target)

 

 

poth staff and visitors. Pe (i

 

 

They are subsequently forwarded. to the cf section of WH/SA where they are shown
to PERUMEN intelligence defectors! AMNIP-1 and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whom.

they are rartinely shown, LETANIL-Wnas to date made the largest number of _
identifications. The photos have | proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of a new Hmbassy staff need his photograph is in the hands of the .
Station, In addition to the iden ification of staff and visitors, the photos
(accompanied by a log kept by the | LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action

(arrivals end departures) and details of personal associations (who associates

with whon) which are of great value to the Station.in mounting operations against

the target.

In addition.to photography, LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 are often called upon
to do visual.surveillance of the target installation and LIO iION-L is: esse

  

~o the dispatching of. the LIEMBRACE surveillance team against individuals.:
associateé with the target. Hecause of the presence of police patrol cars in

  
 

sareet, hence the need for LIONION-L's disvetching se
Set, ci fOr. : ? SB

The presence
a valued piece of
Station 3
target in the form of conceals

   

Sused-as\a Listen:
bechnical survelil
Glo -trarsmitters.

3 post when the
a devices in the

     
  

 

photographic) : surveillance og

proval for the “first tine, Se
PBR

ce eee ene nee ence eon RT ge a me

_Glose to the

  

 
 
   

 

   
     
  
  
   
     
 

 
 

 
  

 

ve se LIONTON-2 was grant

 

 

 

«
ope

BD. Operational Assets ecsomnel)

De BMEtMeN lessen al

 
  

LIONION-1 is a NE ERUMEN is + He left PBRUMEN in 1960, :
plamning to continue eS, Mexico. to the Uf States where he resided in. i

his early years. His two. brothers are American citizens, one a desk officer
in the Department of Co: ishing! the other a police official in .;
Ss recruited, as LILILY-1, to

Tampa, Florida. While :
for the Station and, once having

 

perform FERUMEN operati.
a taste or clandestine activity, decided to remain in Mexico. LIONION-2 :

“was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2, as a basehouse occupant and :
operator in the LIFEAT/LIERODE technical operation aimed at the PERUMEN . i
Embassy. At this same time LIONION~1 also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and !
the two worked together as a team. In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION~2 worked :
together : in processing the take of the LIFEAT /LIERODE/MRTRAP installation, now
kmown as LICMEN. At this time their cryptonyms were changed from LILILY-1 and
2 to LIFsuD-22 and 23, respectively. In the latter part of 1962 t the two agents
began the present photographic purveiliance Operations

. BEGNEON-1 wes eq iD
. LCFLUTTERSD on 8 Oct 63
Er: by HMMW=10660. - See
- LIONICN~-1 ts the mainstay” fe) ope’ Ol ‘LIONTON-2 acts’ as “his assistant

cs and fill-in at such times as he. is absent fron the ‘observation post.”: Both serve ~
os principally as -observers and photographers. LIONION-L also acts asa dispatcher
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team from which he is “compartmented: ~ Dispatehing .
is done by radio using pre-arrangéd innocuous code terminology; the team does not
know LIONION-1 or his precise location. LIONION-1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Mnbassy gate through final printing, cropping
and mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is processed through the
negative development stage.

 

 

 
 
    

     

' Control is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of
the agents, that as PBRUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might
_be brought upon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out

of line. Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and violent aversion

.to, and determination to bring about the downfall of, the AMTHUG regime.. An oy

additional motivating factor is that’. both agents actually enjoy what. for many would _ Qa
"be monotonous work. Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this ‘sort. ‘of Work, :

i
i
i
i
}

 

 
 

. oh agents: realize that “they ‘are’ : yorking for (PBERIME: intelligence} ’ “LIONTOwW-2 v
:ppears to be aware that he ‘is working for KUBARK. ‘The cover utilized _by LIONICN-2
‘is: that off LIONION-1 passes as 4 rho: can afford .
- to dabble witaout notable success. _becausé
: Tampa, Florida (inherited
a "rentista," one who live
His rentista status is reg
this cover successfully withs
checking ¢ oa persons of questi

HB collection purposes. ‘The
to bolster the qiri Fi i porting documents from a
in New York City; “these wi e réquested in separate correspondence,

500095

 

 

    
 
  

 

 

      
    
   
 

 

oF
fee: than. gainful . employnent.
ds ernment.» ‘In October 196
tigation by Mexican authorities ©

   

 

 

Se neem eae

PAGS 4 of 2 2

Cory No.
