 

 

vPd

 

a Sa aOR EET Na Ime ate al ete He ld sO Lb aanomanae i Ne eA s Ho

“ee
operational interest. They are:

- a. Pather(Padre) Alberto de Castro: he is a Jesuit priest presently
located in Caracas, Venezuela, who had been a teacher of Fidel Castro during
his youth, Castro was in Venezuela and saw Father de Castro there during
which time the latter criticized Fidel for some of his actions. In spite of

ov the fazt that this remonstration occured in front of some of Fidel's men,
- + and they laterthe latter treated ‘him with great respect. It was felt by Tichbern's source’
. Chatted.alone of this information, and by Tighborn, that Father de Castro undoubted
for an hour. has sone-influence over Castro. Tichbern suggested that it would be of value to

determine whether or not Fidel has cny regular contact with Father de Castro
and.if so,what oferational potential he might have.

b.. Herb Mathows: he is a journalist with the R.¥,Timeg and was the only
American newspaperman covering the Castro story prior to his final success.
While Tichborn was in Yuba, a front page article pe appeared in Revolucion
(the regime's press. spokesman) on Mathews. It was a sort of editorial and
praised Mathews as a "real man" and one who understood the revolution and
its aims. Tichborn feels that it might be to our advantage to get into
contact with Mathews since he appears to have the confidence of the
administration. ; :

Mon .

Ce Professor Rosco! Subject is on the faculty of the Universidad de
Villameva and is a contemporary of Fidel Castro. They were clacsmates and
both were debators although according to Rosco, Castro did not make the
Debating. Society ‘of which’ he(Rosco) wes the presidentOnce efter the
revolution, Rosco attended a_sppech Castro made and after the oration, the
latter asked Rosco wh&t he thought cf it. Upon hearing some criticism, hé wanted
to kmow how it could- have been improved. Since Castro was leaving for
/ Venezuela ‘and the Jaited States he asked Rosco to accompany him in order that

they could discuss the matter further. Tichborn feels that Rosco (a member of
the opposition) ja probably has more influence on Castro than Rosco realizes
and that this possibility would be worth looking into. .

d. Edward R.Murrow: he produced a-TV program on Castro and Tichborn feels

that he might have established a rapport with Castro during this period. .

4. One of the contacts Tichborn made in Cuba (the Director of Tourism) asked
him if he knew of anyone whe would be interested in coming to Cuba on an all-dxpenses-
paid visit in order to write articles (or other similar propaganda) on present day
Cuba. Tichborn mentioned Clete Roberts, a popular radio and TV commentator in Los
Angéles as a possible candidate. (Tichborn also discussed this matter with Horace
W. Davis.) Tichborn will mention this possibility to Roberts upon hia return to
Californic. :

5. While in Cuba, Tichborn accidently met a young lady who later revealed to
him that she war “an agent for the #State Dapartment". Re felt that this was a

security matter and that it should ba brought to our attention for that purpose.
wa asd not recognize the name; it 1s being further checked out with WH
Division,

he incident and the details will be rade the subject of a separate
memorandum for CI Staff.
    

04-10174-10038

wie

CRAST

2 February 196% a a

MEMGRANBOM FOR THE RECORB:
. : ; SUBJECT: Bebriefing ef Edward G. Tichbern(P)

1. Edward G.Tichborn(P) arrived in Washington from his. trip to Cuba: during
the night of 31 Jamary 1960/. "e was debrkefed at the Fotel Statler from about
1000 to 1530 hours on 1 February. Those present atthe debriefing were Messrs.

cn Charles Penney frem W Division, he PP/EAD, and

. ie Undersigned, This debriefing was very interesting and resulte a good
deal of pertinent information. The thres end a half reels of tape derived fees
therefrom are now being transeribed bg this cffice. Some of the more salient
points are noted below,

p24

2. Some of the operational information and suggestions offered by Tichborn
ara the following:

a. There appears to be little chance of a coalition ef the opposition
groups at this time or in the near future since they are not well organized
and each group mamk would want to be the leader of such an effort. Also,
according to the mmabers of the orposition to whom Tichborn talked, it is
the general consensus cf opinion that Fidel Castro is in no danger of loosing
his grip or the devotion of his followérsx for some time to come.

b. Fidel Castro seems to becons most xt upset and almost vaniced by . :
defections. Possessing a "Messiah-type complex" he cannot bear the thought
of someone leaving the fold. Rather than to let such defections pass on
unnoticed, he feels compélled to give reasons and rake excuses. This then
‘blows hhe matter up perhaps out of proportion and quickly becomes a matter
of public knowledge. Tichborn feels that the inducement of defections could
perhaps have more effect on Castro than any other single, rational action ve
might undertake. .

c. There appears to be a relatively long-standing schism between the
brothers Fidel and Raoul Castro. Raoul is the moze cold individual. As an
example, Fidel once ordered some '400 prisoners to be returned safely to their
hopes, but Racul had a number of. them killed. The general feeling in Ouba is
$het Fidel 1s not a Commmist, but that Raoul is undoubtedly at least a
fellow-traveller. Developing or exploiting this schism could therefore, be
operationally advantageous. (The fact that they are brothers would probably
have little effect on Fidel who Ras already reduced ktmcrak the land holdings
ef his mother and another brother in conformity with the agrarian reforz
program and who jailed his sister, and fired a Minister, over 2 shake-dow
on an insurance deal.) oo .

3. Of special operattorel interest wars several individuals Tichborn .
mentioned who might have some influence on Fidel Castro and hence might be of

5 ipl
 

 

6. Cn the adutnistrative side, @, Teper will forvard by wall hfs
financial accounting, one copy to the cover conpshy and the other to Henry
_M. Darkin(P). Tha cover letter hich was provided him thw the event that
he cane to the attention of the Cyban autherities was returned to us and is
now in his file. (There was no necessity for its use.) Tichborn inquired as to
the possibility of receiving reimbursement for medical exponses which will
undoubtedly be incurred upon his return to California due to a possible hernia
which developed in New York on hés.return trip en route to Washington, This is ~

“being checked out by this office. Tichborn departed fgr, Los Angeles (having -been
taken to Freindship International Airport by Yeurptllerkin) at about 1600.

hours on 1 February 1960.

Evalena S. Vidal

 
