13-00000

 

4

 

d. Each new item on a target person is linked to a past
history; what appears as a fragmentary bit in a conversation
becomes a meaningful development in a continuous story. Conti-
nuity on the job makes this possible.

e@. The equipment is kept in good working order by complete
cleaning and ehecking of each unit onee a month. The 32 units
in use today are those installed in 1959. :

kh. A detailed description of LIRNVOY and its counterpart LIFEAT
should provide good models with which to compare other tap operations.
It should give criteria for good procedures. It should give sowe idea
of the desirable size of such operations, considering the available
targats, the size of the station, and the other tasks and operations of
the station. It should show what the station puts into ite tap opera-
tions and what it gets out of them. LIENVOY and LIFEAT are an interesting
example of two interacting operations, one joint and the other independ-
ent.

5. My stay in Mexico was as interesting and fruitful as it was
enjoyable. And I hope it was not too great a burden on the station.

ee,

 

 

 
104-10413-10035

 

 

2 October 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence :
SUBJECT: TDY to Mexico City

1. After taking a good look at LIENVOY and LIFEAT, I would agree
with the persons I talked with in Mexico; they maintain that any well-
run tap operation should produce substantial intelligence information,
provided the targets are of intelligence interest, and provided also
there are people at the station who look for it and are able to recog-
nize it. The case of LIFBAT is interesting in this respect: It has
been deprived of its most productive lines in favor of LIENVOY, and
yet ite intelligence production compares favorably, with that of the
other productive taps, except LIENVOY.

2. Mexico has people who can detect any little item of intelli-
gence significance. This includes the Chief of Station, who goes over .
the highlights of the previous day's take every morning and marks .
certain items for action by station case officers or reports officerss a
The reports officers work on coples of the take at the same time.

3. There are several aspects of LIENVOY that make it an excellent
operation and an outstanding producer of intelligence. I will describe —
them in detail when my notes get here from the station. The principal
factors in the success of LIENVOY seem to be the following. :

e, The agreenent meade with top Mexican officials, unlike
many euch agreements elsewhere, ig as much in effect today as it
was at the start: the targeting is not based on personal politics;
the intercept staff has stayed on the job; the equipment is con-
sidered to be on loan from CIA.

b. ‘The native monitoring staff has reached a peak of effec-
tiveness that everyone at the station praises very highly.

c. The station is organized to handle the take speedily as
soon as it comes in. The Chief of Station, the case officers, the
reports officers, all work on it at the same time and exchange
views on hot items. They do not let reports backlogs accumulate.

 

Supe d
