E. Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered by Mexican

BP.

 

Commnication is primarily with LIONION-1; with LIONION-2 only in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls
from LIONION-1 go through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the
LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment, which would appear to be a LIONION~1L
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIOT technician, —

Hugh T. FRANCOTTE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week. The Case Officer,
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 knows
the true name of the Case Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed. .

to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JMWAVE
area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income. This would probably hold up unless they were caught in flagrante
with the KURIOL automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such.
refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization..
In any event, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protection,
enabled him to weather the tax invéstigation and can be used by him to overcome any
future difficulties with Mexican authorities. . ; :

Under Mexican law, the principal (photographic) activity of the project is
not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not of
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually possible to stave off
investigation or house search for a period of time sufficient to remove compromis~
ing material from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completely
in one evening and could agein be cleaned, probably in less time, if circumstances ;
should warrant. ~ : 4 .

 

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.
On one oecasion AMKNOB~1, a JMWAVE asset, was shown a nearby building (not the
LIONION base) by a PBRUMEN Embassy officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo
pase. ; :

LIONION-1 is known by sight to some PBRUMEN Embassy staff personnel who have
observed him in the neighborhood. ‘Presumably they believe he is a Mexican. To .
avoid operational, compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the
PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request

 

 

 

 

 

 

+ —r

 

Security measures employed inthis operation are designed to make it virtually
impossible for any opposition service to link LIONION personnel with the Station.

Coordination. Coordination with other PBPRIME elements or the Mexican government
is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged. ~

 
operation. LIONION-~2"
recruitnent in 1961. -No Salary changes are contemplated
Project year, , :

LIOWION-1 Salary /
13 months @ $320

$1920
LIONToNn-2 Salary :
13 months @ $150 900
Real estate rentals:
LIONIon Basehouse 600
Lionron Safehouse 264
Utilities on both houses 150
Supplies " 1170
(Photographic film, paper,
chemicals, anq miscellaneous)
Totals - $5004

clude the cus

150.
1170

$547

en

300
 B3ho

$10478

———

 

tomary year end -
Sdary was raiseq from $200 to

 
iy

gps

AAA. ISU!

 
 

‘Trod-tonae-00z8]

see

 

 

16 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: “wH/Ego
SUBJECT : LIONION Project

1. LIONION is a new project which is submitted in the
amount of $10,478, This is a photographic surveillance opera
tion targetted against the Cuban Embassy in a me Two

agents are involved: ON-1, a young Cuban in exile,
“and Lroxto-2, [AO The agents act as observers and

photographers, “LYONTON=1 is also used as a dispatcher for the
LIEMBRACE surveillance team, from which he is compartmented, —
to cover individuals associated with this target... These agents

phone tap operation against the Cuban Embassy. THe Current
photographic operation began in the latter part of 1962,

and was previously funded under Cuban FI funds, The operation
has provided valuable data for the identification of Cuban
Embassy personnel and visitors, and on their patterns of

2. The security of this operation, particularly the
agent's cover for Status and the communications arrangements,
appear reasonably sound. Both agents know that they are
working for AIS, and LIONION-1_was successfully_FLUTTERED

i

_in October 1963, However, LITAMIL-7/ and LITAMIL-9/ who are

penetrations of the Cuban Embassy;—are aware Of this
activity, as they are used to help identify individuals
Photographed, — : .

3. Approval for the. LIONION Project is recommended,
It is requested that, in order to assist Headquarters'
evaluation, project reporting include details of CI/CE data
furnished, and examples of leads developed from such information,

  

GERA D DROLLER
HC/WH/POA

  
 

 
A.

B.

c.

 

Identification, This is a technical (primarily Photographic) surveillance
Operation against the PBRUMEN Enbassy in Mexico City. .

The project is in consonance | with Priority A, Objective 1, of the |
current Related Mission Directive] for Mexico, ce wo

Packground. This Project, herewith ‘Presented for @pproval for the first tine, .
does not represent a new operation, | LIONION activity has been S0ing on since
FI :

operation Produces Photographs or Persons 8ssoclated with the PBRUMEN Enbassy,

 

rou TAMIL- ;
identifications, The Photos have Proven of sreat value, Within hours of the
arrival of a new Enbassy starr member his Photograph is in the hands of the
Station, . In addition to the iden ification of staff ang visitors, the Photos

_ In addition to photography, TONION=2. and LIONTON-2 are often called upon _

tae vicinity, the Station's mobile surve: © assets cannot come close to ‘the
target, hence the need for LIONION-1' 5 dispatching Services, ; eo,

target in the form of concealed radio transmitters,

 
 

D. Operational Assets (Personnel).

LIONION-1 is a young PBRUMEN exile. He left PBRUMEN in 1960,
Planning to continue on via Mexico to the United States where he resided in
his early_years. His two brothers are American citizens, one a desk officer
in_the, in Washington, the other a-police official in.

orida. While in co LIONION-1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to

perform PRRUMEN operational support services for the Station and, once havi. eae

 

 

 

ataste of clandestine » decided to remain in Mexico. LIONION-2,

[| __|was recruited as LILILY-2, as a basehouse occupant and

KS: pératoy in the LIFEAT ODE ter eration aimed at’ the

mbassy. At this same time LIONION=l-also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and

“the-t¥o worked together as a team. In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked,
together in processing the take of, the LIFEAT/LIERODE/MKTRAP installation, now -
known as LIOMEN. At this time their eryptonyms were changed from LILILY-1 ana
2 to LIFEUD-22 and 23, respectively. In the latter part of 1962 the two agents
began the present photographic suyveillance operation.

 
   

LIONION-1 was granted an OA gn “18 May 1962 by HMMW=-10664.. He vas ;
LCFLUITERED on 8 October 1963, HMMW- HMMW-12064. ete

LIONION-2 was granted an OA r 16 May 1962 by HMMW~ 10660.

LIONION-1 is the mainstay of ;the operation. LIONION~2 ‘acts as his assistant
and fill-in at such times'as he ig absent from the observation post. Both serve
principally as observers and photographers. LIONION-1 also acts as a dispatcher
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team from which he is compartmented. Dispatching
is done by radio using pre-arranged. innocuous code terminology; the team does not
know LIONION-1 or his precise location. LIONION-1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Embassy gate through final. printing, cropping
and mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is Processed through the
negative development stage. ~ . ; . :

Control is primarily financial buttressed by the ynowleaze, on the part of
the agents, that as PBRUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might
be brought upon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out
of line. Motivation is.a conibination of financial necessity and violent aversion
to, and determination to bring about the downfall of, the AMPHUG regime. An
additional motivating factor is ‘that both agents actually enjoy what for many would
be monotonous work. Peychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort of work.

Both agents realize that they ere working for PBPRIME intelligence; LIONION-1
appears to be aware that_he is working for KUBARK. The cover_utilized by LIONION-2
[|__.LLONTON=1. passes as a would-be who can afford
“| success because. of family Tandholdings in

      

to_dabble without-notable |

Florida (inherited from his deceased father), which enable him to live as
a “rentista," one who lives on income from sources other than gainful employment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican government. In October 196)
this cover successfully withstood intensive investigation by Mexican authorities
checking on persons of questionable status far tax collection purposes. The
Station_plans_ to bolster the cover with supporting documents from a
in New York City; these will be requested in separate correspondence

 
