 

a “SECRET “
- RYBAT

7

6, It is noted that UNDERHILL, CUMMINGS, and

INTERARMCO have not appeared to date in any press or
classified reports. of the Garrison investigation in New
Orleans, with the tenuous exception of the Ramparts article

cited at the outset of this memorandum.

SECRET
RYBAT

 

 
 

3 Jal

ao . SECRET . cen
RYBAT

{. A.1957 cable states that a business man in.
Panama, an Agency source, knew CUMMINGS to

be providing information to the FBI and also knew

him to be "careful about keeping the appropriate — - .
U.S. Government agencies informed of his deals." -

g. In early 1958 CUMMINGS assumed sole
ownership of International Armament Corp. and _/ yl

 

“vof Inte rarmco.

 

 

| .
CUMMINGS bought them with a non-interest bearing
promissory note in the amount of $100, 000, payable
in four annual ‘installments of $25,000, and certain

 

 

   

 

items of inventory which had a ¢

and a market.value of $250, 000,
Hy
Vaal

 

kh. On 28 June 1961 the West.German publication
Dér Spiegel reported that CUMMINGS had been em~
ployed by CIA a3 an arms expert during the Korean’
War and that he had cooperated with CIA in' “supplying.
arme to various trouble spots". .

{. Shortly after CUMMINGS: left his staff position
for Interarmco, contact with him waa established by
the WH Division. This contact was taken over by
C/CI/SPG in September 1954. (CUMMINGS kaows *
him only by alias.) This contact is still maintaineds—_ a
Cntil recen rincipal purpose was te dispose

   
   

   

 

The current contact is not operational.”
it is not based ona project, and no payments are

made to” CUMMINGS. who volunteers information re-
sulting from his extensive travels and high-level
contacts. An operational clearance for CUMMINGS?
use by the Cl Staff as an informant was granted in
March 1958.

 

 
 

SECRET
RYBAT
 

 

 

 

   

SECRET
RYBAT

he On 4 January 1962 the Rome periodical Vie Nuove
stated that. CUMMINGS was hired by CLA a8 an ‘expert
in arms and ballistics. .

Ok. i “December 1962 the Office of Security recom-

a mended ‘against his use by Domestic Contact Service as
a source, and in December 1964 the CI Staff advised that ;

it had no operational interest in Subject. (Comment: As

wag noted above, this statement is correct, because

. Subject's activity is not directed by the Agency. He.

volunteers information: }

1. An Interagency Source Register memo to ACSI,
dated I June 1965, stated that at that time there was
“no record of a current (operational interest in Subject. "

m, An Agency report of 24 February 1966 cited.
CUMMINGS, as trying to procure military equipment
from, ‘Communist Bloc countries on behalf of DIA.

a, Agency reports of February and 4 May 1967
stated that CUMMINGS had been in close contact with
the BND (West German foreign intelligence service} '
fora year or more, that he had been given require~
ments by the. BND, and that these included lists of.
Soviet and Bloc arms for procurement. It was also
reported that he showed a BND representative a copy

_of a purchase order for the procurement of a Soviet

T-54 tank, the order having originated with DLA.
BND officials have often stated that CUMMINGS isa

CIA agent.

o A form dated 1 June 1967 was directed to the
Interagency Source Register by "DA", presumably -
Department of the Army.

5. Agency records contain numerous references to

INTERARMCO. | ; ;
: coe

| SECRET
——-RYBAT
 

 

 

 

 

“~ SteREE
RYBAT — a

“The friends whom Underhill visited say he was sober
but badly shook. They say he attributed the Kennedy
murder to a CIA clique which was carrying on a lucrative
racket in gun-running, narcotics and other contraband,
and manipulating political intrigue to serve ity own ends.
Kennedy supposedly got wind that something was going on
and-was killed before he could ‘blow the whistle on itt.

- Although the’ friends had always known Underhill to be

perfectly rational and objective, they at first didn't take

‘his account seriously. ‘I think the main reason was,!

‘explains the husband, "that we couldn't believe that the

CIA could contain a corrupt element every bit as ruth-

” Jesd--and more efficient--as the mafia.®

“Phe verdict of suicide in Underhill's death is by no
means convincing. His body was found by a writing

:. collaborator, Asher Brynes of the New Republic. He ;
chad been shot behind the left car, and an automatic pistol
- wag under his left side. Odd, says Brynes, because

Underhill was right-handed. Brynes thinks the pistol

“ contained

was fitted with a silencer, and occupants of the apartment
building couid not recall hearing a shot. Underhill obvi-
ously had been dead several days.

"Garry. Underhill's chilling story is hardly implausible. :

‘As a spy apparatus the CIA is honeycombed with ‘self- :
cliques operating without any real central control... "

2. A check of Agency records has yielded the following information.

about John Garrett UNDERHILL Jr. :

a. DPOB: 7 August 1915, Brooklyn. |

b. Attended high school in Brooklyn and was graduated
from Harvard in 1937.

ce Died.8 May 1964.

setRET
RYBAT
 

(OT)

oad :
we : ot . ‘ gee Ee

 

- , SPREE
—BYBAT

19 guL 967

‘MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Ramparts:. John Garrett UNDERHILL Jrt,
: Samuel George CUMMINGS, and

INTERARMCO

1. Ramparts of June 1967, Vol. 5, No. 12, pp. 28~29, contains
the following passages about Subjects: ee

The day after the assassination, Gary Underhill left

" Washington in a hurry. Late in the evening he: showed up
at the home of friends in New Jersey. .He was very agitated.
A small clique within the CLA was responsible for the as~
sassination, he confided, and he was afraid for his life and
probably would have to leave. the country. Less than six

; months later Underhill was found shot to death in his

" .Washington apartment. The coroner ruled it suicide.

"J. Garrett Underhill had been an intelligence agent

during World War li and was a yecognized authority on limi-
ted warfare and small arms. A researcher and writer on
military affairs, he was ona first -name basis with many of
“the top brass in the Pentagon. He was also on intimate terms
with a number of high-ranking CLA officials--he was one of

" the Agency's ‘un-people! who perform special assignments.
At one time he had been a friend of Samuel Cummings of
Interarmco, the arms broker that numbers among its cus~
‘tomers the CIA and, ironically, Klein's Sporting Goods of
Chicago, from whence fsic/ the mail-order Carcano alleg-.
edly was purchased by Oswald. .

’

SECRET
"AT

 
 

——
BYBAT

d.. Was a pictorial journalist for Life, 1938-1942..

e. Ordered to active duty with MIS, Washington, as
a second licutenant, on 8 July 1943. Served with MIS —_——_-
for 2-1/2 years, working on technical and photographic
headings for MIS publications, evaluation of intelligence,
_and enemy uniforms, insignia, weapons, etc. On. .
“9 October 1945 received a War Department staff citation“
for superior work in military intelligence. Left active

duty in May 1946.

. f. CIA memoranda of February and October 1949 -

~ show that there was interest by the New York office of
OO, Contacts Division, in using Subject as a contact for
forcign intelligencé.’ Name checks were conducted with
various military. members of the intelligence community,
but these yielded insufficient information, and OO was
advised that contact should be developed with caution, on
a limited basis, and that Subject was not to receive in-
formation classified higher than confidential.

: g, On 1l2 March 1957 national agency checks were
again. requested on Subject because of interest by the
Office of Security. , :

h. A UP article of unknown date cites an article written
, : by UNDERHILL for Esquire. The article-described the U.S.
. : : Army as shockingly weak. The UP piece stated that
UNDERHILL served in military intelligence in World War
{1 and Korea. UNDERHILL said that he had served as a con-

sultant /probably in 1956/ to an Army coordinating group.

i ~ . i, A report of 6 August 1954. from the Office of Security,

: Department of State, concerns contacts between UNDERHILL .
and one Herman AXELBANK, who was trying to sell photo~
graphs of Soviet military subjects. UNDERHILL reported
these. contacts to the FBI and to CLA. In November 1949

 

~SORET
~— RYBAT

 
 

i)

‘tor, ‘Domestic Contact:Service, whose office provi:
_ reply. : : :

40 . \
UNDERHILL visited Washington to cail the attention of CLA to
certain ANELBANK pictures and was advised that Colliers. _
might be interested in some of them for an article on Russia. !
UNDERHILL discussed AXELBANK, with "Ricky" Haskins of
CIA. . :

3. On the basis of the foregoing an inquiry waa made of direc-_
ded the attached

4, The following information about Sarnuel George CUMMINGS,
201-178343, was compiled from his 201 file and from information ©
provided by the Office of Security and by C/CLSPG. :

a. His date and place of birth are 4 February 1927,.
Philadelphia. So co

b. He entered on duty with CIA as a staff employee :
in December 1950. He was then a GS-8 assigned to |
’ Ground Branch, Weapons ‘and Equipment Division, OSI. ~
In January 1952 he was transierred to the Office of
Procurement’ and Supply. During 1952/1953 he travelled
abroad extensively, buying foreign *eapons. .

ce. He married a German rational and consequently
resigned in November 1953, when he became a career
agent in Guatemala.

 @. Cables of the 1951-1952 period state that
CUMMINGS waé then buying arms for CLA and that
the arms were intended for resistance elements

behind the Iron Curtain..
ee <P

e. On 17 August. 1954 CUMMINGS became the ~~,

principal agent of the
nternational ArmaYnent Corporanos and Tm)

Lt., both incorporated in Canada, Switaerland, and

the U.S. CUMMINGS engaged in sharp practises in-

his conduct of business and was 2lso extremely diffi-

cult to control,

 

 

 

 

SECRET
RYBAT
