 

   

 
  
  

Warren Commission Report:
District Attorney Garrison
> REFERENCES

 

6

 

1. We are forwarding herewith a reprint of the article “A Reporter At Large:
Garrison", published in THE NEW YORKER, 13 July, 1968. It was written by ~
Edward Jay Epstein, himself author of a book, ("Inquest"), critical of the

Warren Commission Report. .

 

 

 

 

2. ‘he wide-spread campaign of adverse criticism of the U.S.,.most recently .
again provoked by the assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy, appears to have
revived foreign interest in the assassination of his brother, the late President
Kennedy, too. The forthcoming trial of Sirhan, accused of the murder of Senator
Kennedy, can be expected to cause a new wave of criticism and suspicion -aghinst.
the United States, claiming once more the existence of a sinister "political
murder conspiracy". We are sending you the attached article--based either on
first-hand observation by the author or on other, identified sources--since it
deals with the continuing investigation, conducted by District Attorney Garrison

: of New Orleans, La. That investigation tends to keep alive speculations esbout the
death of President Kennedy, an alleged "conspiracy", and about the possible
involvement of Federal agencies, notably the FBI and CIA. .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

 

3. The article is not meant for reprinting in any media. It is forwarded
primarily for your information and for the information of all Station personnel
concerned. If the Garrison investigation should be cited in your area in the
context of renewed anti-U.S. attacks, you may use the article to brief interested.
contacts, especially government and other political leaders, and to demonstrate to
assets (which you may assign to counter such attacks) that there is no hard -- .
evidence of any such conspiracy. In this context, assets may have to explain to

_their audiences certain basic facts about the U.S. judicial system, its separation
of state and federal courts and the fact that judges and district attorneys in the
states are usually elected, not appointed: consequently, D.A. Garrison can continue
in office as long as his constituents re-elect him, Even if your assets have to
discuss this in order to refute--or at least weaken--anti-U.8. propaganda of ~~

sufficiently serious act, any personal. attacks upon Garrison (or any other-public
personality in the U.S.) must be strictly avoided.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for FOIA Review og SEP 876 » SLAGHT °
Attachment: 1 unclassified article, -per para 1

 

  

  
    

 
   
  

OISPAVGH SYMGCL ANO MUMBER

777 ee

 
104-10042-40076
. A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
org et Stool. pieenteeten te go -

toy y
_ Prmup"ppSTREEyTTON bel”

 

 

 

 

 
