74-00000

: ‘

c. Robert A. Maheu (SF#111 549): Mr. Postal
reviewed only a suall portion of the -Naheu file and
was shown only those documents therein which pertain
to the Castro assassination plans and subsequent
contacts with individuals concerned with this matter.
The Maheu file was discussed with Mr. Postal in general
terms, and a verbal description of selected decunents
was provided. Mr. Postal's limited review of tho
Maheu file resulted primarily from the late hour com-
bined with the length of time involved to separate
related/unrelated documents for his review. He was
satisfied that he was shown any documents pertinent to
his inquiry. -

d. Wilhiam Kk. Harvey (SP#32 814): Again, in —
view of the Tate hour, and with Mr. Postal's concur-

rence, a verbal description of the Villiam K. Harvey
file was provided. Mr. Postal was satisfied with
this description and felt that any pertinent infor-
mation contained within that file was nade available
to hin.

e. Sheffield Edwards (SF?31 $76): Mr. Pestal
was advised that the Colonel Eivards file contained
nothing of relevance to the Roselli/Mshau/Giaacana
matter other than copies of recent memoranda pra-
pared in connection with the Rockefeller Commission
or Senate Select Committee requests. A verbal review
of the. file was provided to Mr. Postal, which fulfilled
his requirenents.

f. Director of Security--Chroaological Files
1960-1953: “Sr. Postal was advised that a thorouga ©

review of these chronological files had been under-
taken and had disclosed only one memorandum related
to the Roselli/Haheu/Giancana matter, a copy of which
was shown to him. Hr, Postal then requested that a
yerbal review of random samples from these chrone-
logical files be provided. Per his request, approxi-
matoly thros envelopes from these files. were opened,
and # general verbal description of the contents was
provided to hin.

we

sat
 

([toetorsatonany

 

iY

é an

\ .

Beggs Git,
Boi ar 8S On

, “"'EDTOduicg”
“ A

2 SEP 1975
HEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

VIA :* Deputy Director for Administration

SUBJECT " : Senate Select Committee Request
(Roselli/Haheu/Giancana Matter)

1. Reference is made to a 28 August 1975 nenoerandum for
The Review Staff (CS $7525), sane subject, which responded to
2% request from the Senate Select Committee concerning the
Roselli/Maheu/Giancana matter. — :

2. As indicated in reference, the pertinent Office of
Security files concerning this matter were to be made ayailable
to designated Senate Select Committee Staff wembers, within tho
ostadlished framework for the Senate Select Committee's review
of Office Segurity files. On 28 August 1975 frea 1539-1345
hours, Nr. |John’S. Hunt land Mr. Stanley L. Smith of the Office
of Security wet with Mr. Andrew Postal, Senate Select Committcs
Staff nesber, in order that ir, Postal could review cited files.

3. A brief description of the Office of Security files
and materials therein which were sade available for Mr. Postal's
reviow appears below:

a. Salvatore Glancana (SP#564 450): Hr. Postal
reviewed ao

taose cuments within the Giancaua file
which pertain to the Roselli/Maheu/Giancana satter,
but was not shown material unrelated te this matter.

b. John Roselli (SFE#667 270}: Mr. Pestal
reviewed ths majority of the John Roselli file, in
that the documents contained therein prinarily con-
cerm the Rosolli/Maheu/Giancana Castro assassination
attempt as well as subsequent contacts with iadivid-
uals and/or investigations concerning this matter by
the Agency. However, Mr. Postal was not shown cortain
docuzents which are unrelated to this matter.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 963344

OS 5 7249/A

 

 
ae — f , SebieE

=)

4. During the ebove review, Mr. Postal took approximately
five pages of notes on legal-sized paper from various memoranda
which were shown to him. His notes were primarily taken during
his review of the Roselli file, Within the Roselli file,

Mr. Postal also asked that he be provided with copies of two
documents. Mr. Postal was advised that he should formally
request these documents from The Review Staff, to which he
agreed, The two documents of interost to Mr. Postsi are
described below: . :

a. A 21 March 1963 blue office sexzorandum, from
Mr. Howard Osbora to Hrs. Elizabeth Dunlevy, in which
Mr. Gsborn queried the DCI as. to whe sheuld become
the office of record concerning the Roselli matter
an view of Hr. Jack Earman's departure from the Agency.

b. A 29 March 1957 memorandua for the record,

:. from Mr, Howard J. Osburn, describing a moeting held
‘between Hr. Osborn and the BCI. Cited mseting con-
cernad the initiation of an investigation iato the
Roselli/Maheu matter by Mr. Jack Earman of the
Inspector General's offices and Mr. Osbora's seeking
guidance as to his dealings with Mr. Esrman during
this investigation.

§. Hr. Postel seemed satisfied with the information made
available to him during this review session and commented that
he was convinced that the Office of Security had provided hia
with all-pertinent information related to thé Roselli/Maheu/
Glancana matter. Mr. Postal expressed reservations, hovever,
concerning his having been provided with all pertinent docu-
ments within the Agency and indicated a desire to check further
with the Inspector Ceneral and the Deputy Directorate for —
Operations. Ny. Postal was advised that any such inquiries
should be directed to The Review Staff.

6. Copies of the two documents requested by Mr. Postal
will be forwarded to The Review Staff upen receiot of the

formal raquest.
Z f A Zz:

Distribution: Robert 4, Gambino
Orig § 2 - Addressee _ Director of Security
1 - DDA
1 - BD/Security ~
XXXXBXBARMET ER

1 - OS Registry 3
12 sag SECRET
ospst/sacy] jean (29August75)
