 

 

‘rodet0192-40182

a

 

3 April 1960

WR NDOM PO TH COLD

SUPITCT: Meeting of 7° Merch with Menbers of AMT: LN Group ad

: 2. This menorandus andodios a few of disco] laneous Pointe that were covered
during our seeting of 24 Merch with three re;resentatives of the AMPALM Proupe |

: 2, One essenti=lly for our -propaginds peorle, ie this, the Prensa Latina
has established an oxteniive netvor’ now only in the homtephere tut outeide of It
in other countries, The A=" 41's asked the 8’ ple fveation, wrere Ia the money
coming from, Since ‘rensa Latina is apmrentaly o non-profit orm niation wWileh
unlike our Assoc! ted Press and Ul -eell ite products to news:a-ers round the
‘world, Just who fo footing the till +t thie time for this extensive operation. .

3, Two, concerns the presentCub-n dirlon:tie corps. The AX! ALMS' comment’
+ that s key man in the diplorutic corps is reclaced, ns = result of defection or any
other Gause the replicement is favariatly «© Cousunist, This could probably re _
well ehecked out, ‘nother point they mako goncerna the tr-ining of certain Comnunista.
The present -mbagsador to Car-ons is Luis Orlando RCURIGUZZ, According to the Hala,
thie ann RODRIGUES, wes tmined ovar a period of pany yerrs. by A aan nanar! Leon KAGK,
hots Ukrsinin, speaks five or six 1 ngucpas, is sn econoriet, deseriled by them ag
extresiely intelligent, He lives ina private toms which hee doora on it ilke 4
4 _ dank vault and atnee cil aonetina, he's Lived tn Cuba. He's a Cimuw shrouded in
secrecy but one who hes tr-ined not only KORICULE, but Horta FRAY end others,

4. VTotnt number threa contarned erpontine complieity In the meent plet
agiinst tresident Frondisi of irgorting, Timing was Ibst fal) end according to
the AMIAIMG the Cub.n sbsesy in Argentina was the center of the conssiricy,

tor Fonsi tek down to hewana this «isa trigic
3. It took much of tha he rt out o” be peorle
THC rol sere looking to the United itites for

Se Ben we sen@ Amins
mistoke, recording to the -v:
who were stronel op ored to
morale suc-ort,

 
  

6 In an amlysis of Ccstrots propress to d te ind his aspir:tions for the
future they mint this rleture. They avy. that the aggult on the Koneada Burr-cke
of 19531» 9 @astro's soringbosrd or tronpeline to the jlerria “sestre, The sierra

. Maestre we his trauvoline te Cubs and Cuba is his tr--roline to L-tin ameriece,
There may be some expléitable angles to ‘this analysis,

  

 

7. Concerning 4 teeter plan for action, these gentlemen en hasized thu nved
‘for inktislly 4 atrong justifie son in the alnds of tha Cuban -eccle for evertin lly
‘crossing Lhe bridre, They se @ this crussing of the bridge as a very ar-stie nection.
To cuote 2 ssying, they put it this a, “agrrin won't cure spremdicitis®, This 2cana
thet ea‘or sugery is re ulred and the piblent must therefore first te crepired for
the trenendoua operation thet has to follow, .

 

mae Me Fak bane 2 TE Maker en “ORET :

 

Upy
