  

manuguaniogy rhe ney

   
      
 

ot

ey

 

 

 

28 Septenber 1959
ae a enter a ONT)
__ MARKED #08 INDEKING

INDEMING CAN 6& JUDGED
8Y QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

 

      

l 7
ty

   
       
  

me

20, COMMENT: LIFAIL io a bright young man who diaplayed cultur@and good
manners. He was genuinely appreciative for the aseistance given hin, Jt ohowld ba’.
understeed however, that he is immature and, in the face of coms element of danger,
io like a frightened little boy. The Dominican Republic ia cruel, conseienseloss
and extremely dangerous for old hands and euch a novice has no chance. It hao been
the quick undoing of moro seasened man. It is believed that the theft of LIFAIL's.
passport can be considered advantageous, If he bad stayed on in the Dominiesn A
Republic, without expericnoing the loge of hio paseport, it ie a safo assumption that
he would have becom suspect, arrested and whieked off to prison, Torture would 4
have broken him quickly. He should not return to the Deainican Republic under any
circumstances, and ho was so informed emphatically.

   
 
 
 
   
   

Crepes

RICHARD F, ARVILLS

 

Attachments
1, Statemcat by LIFAIL re not seeking asylum |
2, lettor to Consul requesting vies :
3. Latter to Pia

  
  

  

  

  

. 28 September 1959

  

Distributicn: .
3 = Rao. fate use
1 - Bavam w/o atts
1-[_|w/o atte.

G3

 
   

   

CLASSIFICATION:

 

ences USM FLIVIOUS EDIT.GN

 

 
GS@.
IATA CHAT
4, 70| 22

4

‘5 Septeabar | BS ar Sy

 

PaSpreerein a Saapiencennonesigy

eager

: Roy vino a la Exbajoda o reportar el robe de mi
pacaporte, ol curl fus usado per alguicn para viajar a
ies Estados Unidos, Encentrd ol ecHer Rasd en la
Enbajada a quién habia conosido on La Habana dends .
trabajé con BRAC, El scfior Rood dijo quo 61 mandarda
neneajes a los Estados Unidos para ayudaras a cocaseguir
mi pasaporte,

Ho pido oe4l¢ y no lo nccosito. Por falta de dinero
y debido 6 mi emigtad oca ol cefier Read, 61 mo ofresié

hoapsdaje on su casa por wos dias durante sus
avoriguacionee sobre mi pasaporte camo m favor qua 61
me concede, an

 

 

 
ee nage an NER ge CUE oO, gyms

 

. do like a frightensd Little boy, Tha Dominican Republic 4s cruel, consciencoless

 

DISPATCH |, sscres Hise ee 6

 

8 2 Sept eabor 1959
ae [CHECK “X" ONG)

 

“INDERING CAN 88 1WOGED
GY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

20, COGENT: LIFAIL is a bright young man who displayed oulturo.and good. 5
manners. He waa genuinely appreciative for the asaistance given him, It should bo’
understood however, that he is immature and, in the face of some elensnt of dangar,

and extrensly dangerous for old hands and such a novice has no chaace, It has been
the quick undoing of more seasonal men, It is believed that the theft of LIFAIL'sa
Faesport can be considered advantageous, If he had stayed on in tho Dominican ;
Ropublic, without experiencing the lose of his passport, it ie a safe ascuption that j
ho would have becoda suspect, arrested and whisked off to prison. Torture would

have broken him quickly. He should not return to the Dominican Republic under any
circumstances, and he waa oo informed anphatioslly.

. ; Orie
. : RIGARD F, ARVILLE
Attachasnta
1, Statemsnt by LIFALL re not secking asylua

2. Letter to Consul requesting viss
3. Lotter to PAA

28 Septeaber 1959

Distributions
3 = Bigs. u/atts uso

1 ~ Ravana w/o atts, , 4
le w/o atte,

(3 ,

 
    
  
 

.

 

 

  

ones (yn

28 Septaaber 1959
ae abe — (CHEGR “I ONE)
MARKED FO8 INDEXING
NO NDEKING @eQUIRED

INDEXING CAN GE 1UDGEO
ey QUALIELED HQ DESE ONLY

 

      
      
 

 

  
 

 

wanted to return to Mexico, and protably cok other questions, “that you (C03) doen't
care to havo answered®, Therafere, the idea of a Mexican vies wae dropped, The
Consul ctated that unless ho cent LIFAIL’s application for a vica to Washingten for
clearance, G03 vould fave to furnich the Consul o menorandua containing the stato=
Boma ho opscificd. Tho mamorandum wae furnished and a carbon copy ia attached for
Headquarter's informticas . :

       
       
 

A7o At tha Pan Amorican Admmyo ticket office the manager io a Daaindesn. After
O Gaoewmy ticket to Miaind had been purchaccd froa one of the clorks uho asked no
quasticzs, tho mrager pickcd up the deswisats, reviewed thea ond eaid, “Thies can io
going to Mamico, Ho deca not have o Harican vies and ho is not ticketed to Hamica®,
€03 offercd to buy a tickst on through to Hazleo City, tut the Kamagor oadd that
could us% to dons without the Hazican visa, 603 then offered to buy LIVAIL a rounde
trip tiskot, Giudad Trujillo to Nical and rcturn, but tho manigar refused because
LEPAIL had o transit vica ond mot o tourist vica. G03 then identified himsc? feo an
Eatacsy officer jand axplainsd that LIPAIL would be met by o U.S. official 4n [
“who would tgko care of getting o Haxican vica ond ticketing LIPAXL on to Mexico City. |
The manager thon demanded a lotter, ca Hicaica letterhcaad, tho temz of which ko
ctated, to protcot FAA against tho possibility of o GL00D fimo. He would not release |
the ticket without sae G03 propared the letter and deliversd it, It do hoped

ry By

    
         
     
   
   
   
     

    

that (ao requcatcd ai ropresentation cquared this with the appropriat>
offieinio in Hicni : fins nignt bs oscosscd and tho istter given PAL
by GOS would be brought into tho opon, Thoro eas no other course to take unier tho
cirounstances. A copy of the lotter is ettached for Hasdquarter's informatiens, -

   
  

  

1@, When LIPAIL was at tho airport for departure, Gonoral FEDRAZA and at least
£iftecn other Cubans were on hand to cee him off, Ona Cuban eoked LIVAIL, "wint wou

thea
LIVAIL loft ho had §50 U.0. dollara and (2 Dx Feses. (This was cade up of the |
tajansa of hie origin 6109, plus tho rena er of G100 he kad received frca his i
uncle dn Hiemd, out of wadch he paid off indebtedness to PRIRAZA's ocorctasy,
which was mot qucationsd), | Ss .

      
  
 

    

8 19¢ + LIFAIL eas quissed thoroughly ond often a8 to what he my have learned ab
Eas Galdcras, in Ciudad Trujillo, and frca othar Cubans in gemaral, It appoars that
ho learmed little, unless hs chogs to reserve his revelations for porsens in Eaxisco
Gity. Us eald his expericnse at Las Caldera was dull end timt ho mized vary Little
with others; that it was training, eating and oloepding; that ho did not go to Con
stanza and mows nothing about it; that there is no Cuban axilo leaderakip ef con=
cequence in tho Doaimicean Bopublic othor than FEDRAZA, to his kmowledgs. [Es expresas
tha idea that oo ECantiago REY did not return to Ciudad Trujillo, REY and REMAZA may |
kavo kad diffcrensca. He had no evidence of this. LIFATLJe confidence ef 0 susesse= |
fal imvsoica of Cuba by exiles io coro, It appearo that the tim he opent fn the
Dominican Republic tas unprofitable, It can be sumed up, in co far as thio Staticn |
imows, 0 training with exiles, during which ho learned nothing of intellfigense value,
and five vosks of idleness during which ho suffered anxicty over his stolen pasepert |
and posoible arrest with ite feared conscquenceo, :

 
   
       
   
  

   
      
       
     
 

a (fom: | LIPATL 49 0

  

 
 

 

-f : - * - ~r i . BPN TEE TH *

-|- DISPATCH SECRET hits m Page 3. ,
a : sree ome AR BGUATE FE RO

woo,

 

EY - wee oat an
4 [FROM : | 28 Septaabsr 1959
prev 7a] > see . 1 te Way — (Chee or ONE,
i MAQKED FOR INDEXING _
NO INDEXING @EQUIRED

INDEXING CAN GE.JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED MQ OfSK ONLY

 

ACTIOM PEQUIREG,

 

 

 

OEP RORNC ET

9. LIPALL was taken out late one night, wearing dark glosges and o cap, and
allowed to telephone his friend, Humberto CANCIO Gonsales, whaa ho desoribed ao a
former Lt, Col. in tho Cuban Marinos under BATISTA, and a formor Cuban Attache in
Washington. GANCIO ie a Cuban exile and was waiting for an ietigrant vies to the 1
U.8. He got the viea and domrted Ciudad Trujillo on 17 Septenbor 1959. Ao requested
by LIPAIL, CANCIO came in a taxi to the yard of the Rabaosy and dehivered AIL? o
personal possessions in the darkness of shrubbery, while COS stood nearby the
‘dark to protect him,

10. Others who warned LIPAIL, he stated, in addition to CANCIO, wore Teresa,

. the wife of Laurcano IBARRA, Cuban, living on Calle Pastcur, near Ave. Indopendonsia.

| IBARRA 4s employed by DB cams to make propaganda broddcasts to Guta mightly. |
Teresa and LIFAIL's mother aro close friends, Another who warned LIFAIL, tao Julio
ELIZALDB, Cuban, living in tho Pas Hotel. Julio is a brother of Pio ELIZALNS, former
Minister of War in Cuba. LIPAIL stated that Santiago REY, Pio ELIZAISS and Eantiage

. ALVAREZ (LIFAIL‘o uncle, in Mexleo City) control or at least havea great tga te do

-with the Cuban exiles in Mexico.

LL, LIPAIL was again taken cut late at night and allowed to cali Julio BLIZALDS,
The latter said that one GANDARA (fnu), thon in Julio's room at the hetol, had senge
thing for 2 GANDARA ooked that LIPAIL caze to the hotel byt C03 vould nas pare
ele it. LEPAIL caid ho did not kmow GANDARA, LIPAIL eaid ho cupposed that
had a letter and posoibly scas monsy for him, from LIPAIL's unale, Santiago ALTOEZ.
(hig wao picked up tha might before LIFAIL departed, at the residenos of FERAL,
whore Julic ELIZALDE wae located. It proved to bs a letter and sasa monoy Area
Santiago ALVAREZ).

22, 005 held a conference with Captain NIGUEHS of tho | W339 Vie. on tho nigas
of 12 Sspteabcr 1959. This vas arranged through the U.5. Ka gues O, KO reacisd
the Captain's Ezooutive officer. The Captain cant hio gig fcr 003 ond eutendicd evesy |
courtesy aboard his chip. NACHAEIS served at cno-timo as head of the U.0. Maval Bisalin
ot Caracas. After a few opening ramarke by C03, the Captain caid, “you must bo G49,9 | |
This was adaitted, The Captain was told cascutdal facts without umecessary dotailas,
Ho was told that wa ind a young man‘on our hands whose plospor’t Ind bom etolca; tint |
tho can tas o Cuban ani wo certainly subject to arrest ond dopriconmmct ty Beminicaa |
outhoritions if wa did not gst him ous. Tha Captain askcd 47 tho requost cade c? Eda |
was known to ths Gaief of Hicsicn, G03 stated that the Ghia? of Kicodon kad tesa dine |
. formed by 003 that ho would vioit him (Captain), but the action being talsca waco collely!
“ Ghat of G63; that noither ths Gaic? of Miscdca ner the Micoicn esuld bo invelvcl, —
Ge Ghisf of Miesica tad previcaly co advised G03). ths Captain wo asked to take
LIVAIL absard, just bofore ths chip caified ca the follaiing Kemtsy noraing, arocsed
ma eadler'a siit, ond allcy him to icave the chip at Gcngtanane Bay.
Giecussed thoroughly. The Captain eaid that tho Chief of Uicaien woeid be ebaard the
ehip next dsy for lunchy th? ol) be wanted wo o “mowing eaile® fran the Gale? of
Mission, Lato tho follcoring afternoon, Cumisy, 13 Septenbor, the Chic? of Hissica
informed O59 that the plan.déd not go throwgh; that 4¢ ind to be ataniemd, ‘tho
pesoibility of flying LIPAIL out in the Eaval Misoden plane mo diocusccd with tho
Ghief of Hicaion, but his position ws Mat aoithor ho nor any clenont of the Hiseion |
sould partioipate in the mtter, and that 003 should handle the problen,

/139 It ia undeabeedly |

 
  
 

  

DISPATCH $¥MBQL AND NO

ce Bpao he

“Teta DQua cteas Fie NO

 

 

   
 
  

23 Saptanber 1959
Ge aha — (CHEER HONE)
_ MARKED FO8 INDERING
_ NO INDEMING RequIneD

INDEXING CAN &@ JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ OFSK ONLY

   

 
 
 

 

  

 

  
 
 

  

 
 
  

      

13, It 49 undoubtedly trua that Cantiago REZ's fricndchip for Oliver GALEGD
waa tho catalyst in the actions taken to ovacuato LIFATL. GALSOMD to REY to Fired
EQ2QUB to FmlGZ Soca to FIDRAZA vac tho chain, 603 had o long talk with PeDRAZA ond
FEAEZ Goa ca tho afternoon of 19 Baptcabar 19590 FEREZ Goca fo a trouble shootcr
end contact can for ths Ganeraliooics, As oust! ho deale a great deal with AESZ3,
After suoh talk and sovoral roundo of otradghd whiskey, PaiUAZA Cimliy consentcd
to agres to the dosomcatation and departure of LIPAIL, Whoa 609 approached FEDIAZA
ond Besa, the cattcr of LIPAIL'a doparturo bad not bean decided, FaRAZA was
otubborn and FEREZ 6c23 was wary. There kad to be such eadd by C03 about, "ao ons
coldicr to another’, ond “honor between old soldiers", oto. Tha breale coansd to cam
‘when 603 caid, “Ganoral, I would havo done thio for your cca", (Tha loss of hie con
4a a tender opot.) The General gulped a atradght chet of whaiskay and lowered hilo had
ca hig bands, Ho caid, "fake tha boy, ha ie an ‘ovess ext pA inEZ Cosa ecu |
tinued to esy, “We vant to ba cure thio can ia not a OF. fo une oseurcd esvaral
tise and told that 003 know LIPAIL whan the latter worked Yor ERAC in Kavana (whded
is not true).

       
     
       
     
      
 

   
  

     
  

  
    
   
   

    

Wo On the corning of 21 Septexber, not having heard frea Feimaza over tho w.
exd, G03 vinitcd ABEED. (Faluaga called later and cadd ho had ecoen ABS), AEST
golsd many questicna about eeosebulg salen were were olther answered footially withous eazy |
tAolation of cssurity, or succsaefully evaded. Ho otated twics that ho lad informe
tica indicating that LIFAIL exo a chat This wao vigorously denicd, After a
eantcrenea ef over an hour AGGE3 ca i) 4 approve tho documentaticn ond dspartard
of EXPAIL, and would co notify tha Galof of Inaigraticn, ULES. (MIE was then ot 0
hospital chere bio wife wo giving tdrth too baby, The Giatlen praupily cant flewers
to tire, UTES). ABBEI wao also asoured that 003 knéw LIPAIL when the latter s2a9 a

ployed by GAC.

15. Ao ccon og UlIE3 tas available, the elev and oumborsaco procedure cf dooumany
tation eas begin, LIVAIL cao isoucd on Intermeionml Pacopart ced an cxlt parmlte Bo
eave his ago o9 24 and bio ccougatica a9 Yotudent?, Walle 603 miu tusy with exo clei!
LYVAIL told enocther clork that hoe wao going to Miamd and Maxieo City. Taio could not |
be anaes. although 4% wao tricd, S05 tad hoped to chow that LIFAIL was going to

Hieai caly, on a tourist visa,

1So At the U.O. Consulate, discussica taving beea provioualy bad tlth tho Consult,
8 Vico Consul pot o transit vica in LUPAILo pascapert. Requsot.tmo made for a tourd
vica without exsesss. Tho qusatica of LIVAIL aot having o Hazlean visa tas dlscussad |
with the Vies Consul, His anower wag "god your can oa the tay and daa’s bother ebow |
o Sicerlean viea®, Ho explained that to apply for a Hexieda vies vould acon coveral 4
Gaya befcre its icsyancs and that tha Hoxican Eabssoy would quis LiVArL thorowgaly |
a0 to thy he tad cote to the Deainican Ropiblio, why he tad bean in Hanico and wiy bo |

    
  

   
     
       
     
     
  

      
 
 

  
      
   
  
  

 

    
     
     
     
     

feanted to return

  

 
14-00000

|

    
   

      
 

COMMENTS

 

 

 

© © 66 6 6 © 6 C6 6 ee

 

 

 

 

 

© © 66 6

& © © 6

AIFALL-

(Gave micRorLMaD , DOCUMENT, ATE OOCUMENT NUMBER

dts af bips/ [01756

©
 

$04-10074-10144

Tee

:
[s)
g
fo}
4
|
@
E
“1 90
i= 4

Str

e@ee8 6806600008086 86 6 8 &

Hen
when the

In tre sheance of comment or indicetion of ac!
tebon, this cover sheet will be deo!
COMMENTS

decumest 4 Mod

| NOTE:

 

 

 

ton

 

 

ae
iy

WH 046 B
| oo La

ee Cd ¢

ee0e@ e082 0

IP
i
fl

 
 

at . s sof . €) . .
S58 4 RET i a

  
  
   

hat CHC ONE)
Operational : i MABEED ron INDEXING °
. LIFAIL : : NO INDEXING QUIRED
SenGN QUI OT . : i INDEXING CAN 8E 1UOGED
Info. only : ; 1 gy QUALIFIED MQ OFSE ONLY

Correa) 1B ne i aaa _—

 

ee Ce? ’

 

 

mea abtion Fue cory

" Ghief, WD ; : 163

Chief of Statian,
Gaiog of Station, Havana

_.. \ -16- taane

. Ghiof of Station, ( ; 20 Sopteabar 1959

 
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  

 

 

1. LIFAIL doparted Ciudad Trujillo at 0900 hours on 23 Septeabsr 1959, vin PAA
Plight No. 432, due to arrive in Hiami, Fla. at 150°) hours on the same date. He
held International Pasoport No. 478, isoucd by Dominican Immigration | on 22 Septanbor
1959, containing a U. 3. transit vias,

SWART

2. LIFAIL was brought to thie Station late on tho afternoon of 9 Septenbar 1939
by tho U. 3. Consul, who eaid ho had a cracy man we should talk to. We accepted the
young man and the Consul demrted,.

3. After boing cortain as to LIFAIL's identity, efforte voro made to cala hin»
He paced the floor, wrung hie hands and breathed heavliy, stating several timss tint
he must got to Haxico City. He cadd he cage to the Deninican Republics abeut 15 July
1939 fren Mexico City and roported to Gonoral FEDRAZA; that Santiago BRGY sent hin,
PEDRAZA scat him to Las Caldoras, DR. for troiming wits criics.. There wero atout
one hundrcd Cubana and ahouwt two hundred others at Tao Calderas, all of whea vere
later transferred to Constanca, DE. for nountain training, Ho could net break dam,
ha caid, the nationalities of 200 nonm-Cuban traineas, cucsopt to cay that there wero
& few Spaniards. LIFATL eaid he was given intcnsive training in tho use, breakdown
ond asscably of Might machine guw,. <Aftcr three weeks of thio training, he told a
doctor, Cuban, mame not known, that ho wae having serious trouble with his left lame
and had to get to a hospital in Ciudad Trujillo, Secon thereafter, the doctor, and
five others with the doctor's consent, including LIPAIL, boarded a bus for Ciudad
Trujillo and. upon arrival al} ceattercd. He has not eccn the others ofncs, There
would be interest in kneiing/the idontity of the doctor, The Gf

p Siam The officer who transferred the trainees to Con-

 
   
 

there is o Yugoslav, naga not imown, ond io

ene fis wd oe sonnel ef Cabrtn Genes |

Saban when he did not mow aoked hia obout his passport. (ihis tas not
Antonio ASOTO Vaoques, por THUJ 0637). LIFAIL roplicd that ho would take bio pacoport;
to Ins Calderns but in fact he put it in the botten cf a valise, which ko

1leaft ina closet in hig hotel roca, Whan he returned to Cludad Trujillo, about 12

August 1959, he discovered that his pasoport had been otolen. Ho quosticnsd several
of the Cubans living in the hotol and one of thea told him to chut up, that paceports
were far the revolution. He then looked for dantiago REY who, ho claimed, tas
to have gons to Maxico City ond returned to Ciudad Trujillo by tint tim. Ho could
not understand vhy REY had not coms back, He waited a fow daya and then tolophoned
EGY, locating him in Mescico City. REY eaid ho could not to Ciudad Trujillo at
that time, could not do anything for LIVAIL icrediately and told LIPAIL to wait.

LIPAIL was questioned vigorously about the theft of his Pansport and he stuck to his

story.

5. LIPAIL then went to PEDRAZA several “timos, explained his dilemma, said he
had to got to Mexico and asked PEURAZA for his assistance. FOUAZA told hin, "no®,
to leave the khotal and go back to training. LIPAIL than went to Folix URIEG, Chief
of Dominican Imaigration and, sa such, agsistant to Join W. ABSES Garcia, Chiof of
Daainican Intelligence. He said ho visited URIBE several tinss and gave his several

 
  
 

ef pd . , os : /pacopert photes.

 
       

ACTION BOUITD

aeranencads;

‘Hanoi, who had boon inquiring regularly at Imaigration in Mieai, talephoaed LIVAIL

wopiting in Ponindcan intolligenso, had told him tobe careful as ho was being invest

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   

Vedanta a btetd Tad ee OU RT

28 September 1959 °

ad HEC 8 ONE
MAEEED POR INOUE ENG
17 NOETNG MQUIFED

MOLENG Cam i IUDOID
BF QuaUttO MQ OFM OMLT

papeport photos, URIBE told LIFAIL nothing could be dons unleso LIPALL obta
& lottar from FEDRAZA requesting the issuance of domisentation. LIFAIL thea
visited tho American Eabaooy thero the recoptioalst directed him to the Aduinistrativd
officer, This had not bean imo to the Station. The Adainistrative officer said

ko could not do anything for LIFAIL and cent hin away. LIPAIL than went tack to
FetQAg’ ond URIBE and pleaded with each to £0 avail. He went to tho Adpiniotrative
officer 4n the Exbacay again, ca 9 Gopteaber 1939, who sent him to the U6. Consul,

in another bulldiag, uptem. lila gurpoce, he explained, in going to the Rabacsy mo
to report tint hig etelen pscoport had turnsd up ot Nisal, Plorida; that « friend in

and roported that the stolen pogepart had been ussd by another to enter the U.S. -
But, he stated, no ono would Moten to him and ho wae afraid to tell too moh,

6. LIPAIL vaso gonuinoly frightenad, Hoe otated he had paid his hotel bill of
the night of 0 Sopwcaber at tho requent of the dcok clerk, who told him mot to cana
backs that tho olorie cadd ha had ordora to that offest, LIPAIL construsd this to
mean that FSIQAZA had co ordcred. Ha caid Cuban friends bad informed hia that FEED
kad omiered that no coro Cubans would bo poradttcd to leave tho Dominican Repubifo
without hio consent, ond that Daaimican Intelligence was honoring that. He learns’
that Cubans wao had reported to FRURAZA, ot tho latter's requset, had been arrested
ond tad disappcareds that if LIFAIL went to FEDRAZA again, he would have to go back
to traiming with the exiles or ba imprisoned; that as he, LIPAIL, had participated in
tho training ond had oecn what vas Going on, PRORAZA certainly would not permit hds ~
to leave.

To Addcd to this, LIFALL otated that Santiago REY had told PRORAZA tis Lira |
'230 on agont for the American Enbacey in Houico City and that, ¢ » PatRaca
kad popzrated this to Daalnican Intelligenss. Hoe related that o girl exmad ISCHIA,

gateds that Fomuca imew that LIPAIL had dealt with soveral Piss fin Guta, bad
protably micusderstced tho reagon for this and undoubtedly Proper’ the informe |
tica to Donimiesa Inte mco3 that friends had warned him that pladnslothss mca lad
been rating inguisies fol him at the Fac Ketel, LIPAYL olco stated that he tad re=
ported tho thoft of hilo moopsr, to tho police. Thie informatica would autemtically
be roferrcd by tho palics to Boainican Intollagcnse, These facto, plus hio mot having
cAnia, Go pacoport or other identification, aad his idicnoss, cade LIPAIL consoisx
of mamsntary arrest and ho tag afraid to be ecsn cn the strests. His elething acd
tollct articlos had been placed in tho roca of a friend at the hotel, He had §100
4m bills of waioh (30 were placed 4n.tha Statdcn cafe and he was allowed te keop 620, |
(fhio eonoy tao lator returned to LIPAIL and $59.30 of it wan used to buy bio ogy
tdoket to Hianls) In tho absence of tho Chief of Higolon at tho tins, his scerstazy |
was osled about tho posoibility of tanporary acylhm of a Cuban national in tho Batesg)
gor a few daya, The ococrotary stated that this could not be domo. (Putting LIPAIL
in another hotel, apartment house, or bearding howse was not possible because of
otristly-cnfcreed laws requiring o gedyla or other acesptable identification).

& After darkness, not kmowing what eles to do with LIPAIL, he mo taken to
C03 hoxe and properly provided for. Ha tas introduced undsr ao foloo nome, as a
fricad frou Cuatesala, Tho servants were allcved to hear the ease infermaticn and
GO questions ware asked. A olgiied statanent tao obtaincd from LIPAIL, dated 9 arte
cater, explaining that ho Ind got aoled for seylea in G03! hone and was otaying there |
because of lack of funda and during inquiry concserning his passport. Tho original |
of this ctatesent io attached for Headquarter'sa records.

 
