The following Agency members. will ‘attend ‘the: meeting
with the ARRB on Wednesday,. 2 August 1995:

Eleanor Neiman
Directorate of Operations

L rreccoraee-e sperattone(t* deck Bi) |
(rrcctovate-crloerationd Baya ed ) -

Fred Wickham .
Directorate of Operations

 

 

 

 

  

William McNair
Directorate of Operations

Robert Eatinger
Office of General Counsel ~

Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SECRET |

   
104-10331-10374

 

 

4 , . SECRET

From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger .

NOTE FOR: DCI
@ DCI
C,/@ DCI
FROM: Robert J. Eatinger
DATE: 08/03/95 08:15:24 AM
SUBJECT: JFK Board's Second Letter to the DCI

This note is corrected per comments hy Barry Harrelson. Corrections are in first paragraph:

FYI, The JFK Assassination Records Review Board sent its second letter to the DCI on 31 July 1995. This letter notifies the DCI that it
has decided to release in full CIA documents considered during its July hearings. Two of these documents contain the.crypt "LIENVOY."
This was the crypt for th jetap operation in Mexico City in 1963. This teltap picked up the Lee Harvey Oswald
telephone calls. - : :

As with the previous letter, the Center for the Study of intelligence has the action to get recommendations to the DCI on whether to
appeal to the President. | understand.that John Pereira will discuss this with Fred Wickham (the DO focal point for these issues) whether
to pursue an appeal. | de not know what the DDO's recommendation will be. -

ing with the Board on 2 August 1995, we stressed the necessity to keep secret the fact the teltap operation was|
The DO sought to explain the mosaic problem to the Board on the release of LIENVOY. The Board's

position appears to be that release of the crypt when it will not compromise the fact that the teltap was, __| bhould be -
permitted under the Act. The Board probably will require us to justify on a document-by-document basis the redaction of LIENVOY, and
will not agree to redact every mention of the crypt. We should know by the end of the week what position the Board will take on the CIA
documents mentioning LIENVOY or talking about the operation. The DO officers at the hearing tried to get the Board te reconsider its
determination to release the crypt in the two'documents. However, the Staff of the Board does not believe the Board can or is inclined to
reconsider.

ce: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

SECRET

 

 
