 

3. (s) There. are, of. course, other documents which could give rise.
“to a misimpression that the CIA could be required te disclose intelligence
sources to the Congress. For example (only the first of these is a "U- S..
* law"):

‘a. The Hughes-Ryan Amendment (section 6 662 of the Foreign:
Assistance Act.of 1961, as amended}, which requires notification”
to the Congress of covert. action. findings. . : _

. b. ‘The general oversight and reporting ‘requirements’ in
S. Res. 400 and H. Res. 658 which established the two ‘intelligence
oversight committees; these, of course, are not binding on the
Executive Branch.

. . €.. The general oversight. and reporting requirements in
section 3-4 of E.0. 12036, which, if read without reference to .
the section's prefatory language or if read by ‘a person not at
all familiar with our Government, could be construed as requiring:
that the Executive Branch must Provide: any infomation the
oversight committees request, — ae

d. H. Res, 222, which established ‘the House Select Committee
on Assassinations, provides for a broad mandate to conduct an .
inquiry into.the assassinations of President Kennedy and Martin
Luther King; yet the terms of the Resolution, while providing |.
standard subpoena authority and so forth, do not remotely
touch on intelligence. The Memorandum of Understanding between
' the DCI and the Chairman of the Assassinations Committee.
although not a public document, discusses the manner in which.
identities of intelligence sources will be retained or deleted —
from'material to which the Committee has access.. There are no
references to liaison sources or arrangements > “however, in Y the ;
Memorandum of Understanding... oe re

e. H. Res. 252, which ‘established ‘the so-called "Braser ”

' Committee" to investigate aspects of Korean-American relations,
similarly grants the Committee a broad investigative mandate,
including subpoena power, but does not have anything to do’ ;
with intelligence sources-or liaison matters. ~ The. operative. -
Memorandum of Understanding recognizes the authority of the .

DCI to excise sensitive information from material made available ae
to the Committee. . :

 
 

(oe toras-t0o7s|

 

OLC 78-2079/2

7 JUN 1978
_ RETURN TO cy
. Background Use Only
_ Do Not Repracues
MEMORANDUM FOR: Haviland Smith, Jr. on en
— SA/DDCT a
FROM: Lyle L. Miller

Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT: Spot Report Dated 24 May 1978--Expression of
- Concern byfieicia Service|with "U.S. Law’
on Reporting to the Congréss

: 1. (S) Subject. memorandum notes that thel Sas registered =.
concern over a "copy of a U.S. law ... which could be interpreted as obliging -

CIA to identify 'to certain members of the Congress' its sources" and sources

of liaison services if known. My view is that the quoted "U.S. law is ‘the
intelligence charter legislation (S. 2525/H.R. 11245) ,.which, of course, is
not yet law but which could be mischaracterized as such. We have received

expressions of concern from other liaison services regarding provisions in —

the charter legislation. :

_2. (U) There is no provision in the charter legislation that explicitly
would require the CIA to disclose intelligence sources to the Congress. ~
There are, however, several provisions that could be construed to extend

the reach of the Congress into sources and liaison matters. These pro-

visions include the following:.

va. Subsection 114 (j) would require that all proposed
liaison agreements be reported to the oversight committees.

b. Subsection 137(b) would require notification to the
Oversight committees whenever an entity of the Intelligence |
Community requests a foreign service to engage in.any activity .
in which the U.S. entity would be prohibited from engaging
without prior Presidential approval. a os

. €. Subsection 15Z(a) contains the overall congressional .
Oversight provisions, requiring, among other things,-that the -
- oversight committees be kept "fully and currently informed"
and that the Executive will furnish to the committees ‘any
information or material ... whenever requested ...''

  
74-0000

 

. 4. (S) In sun, although it is possible the Jexpression
of concern ‘could have been based on one or more of the items mentioned in

paragraph 3 (it would of course be interesting if the service had obtained -

' a copy of one or both of the Memoranda of Understanding discussed above) ,

 

in my view the reference probably was to intelligence charter legislation. |

ston
Lyle L. Miller

Distribution: .
Orig - Addressee
1 - OCC

1 - DDO/PCS/LSN

1 - OLC Subject

1 - OLC Chrono
OLC:RLB:sm (6 Jun 78)

 
