 

Page 2

' The telephone nunber for tal

4, The source said that other m:thous to contact LOPEZ are as follows:

 

ae A Balvadoran. diplomat, Jesus Valencia, fo still Mving in Habana. His. ‘house
on Malecon had nye atreots is unter the. protection of the Siiss, and a Ses flag. flies
over the house, but at 4a unquarddd, and people can.enter and leave freely: LOPEZ
and vateneth are in contact ani-the latter is willing to help in any way" acd has done

so in the Past. Valoncda is ‘also 4n contact with repreeantatives: of the Ttalian and

 

 

French Bnbabsies.

b. LOPES can be reached through Justo ZAYAS and Luis SANCHEZ, 2339 SW 17th Ave.

Miami, ‘elephone HI uns 40969 who use the Ax “an Anorican Airline as a cosmo channel

Anto and o of Cuba,
5. ‘LOPEZ thld the source that he haa acecsa to fishing boata which can be used to

bring explosives into Cuba. . Ha said that the beats are duly athorized fishing boats

which have the necessary papers to fish in Cuban Wdtere dnd return to their Cuban ports.

6. The soukce described LOPEZ ae being 40» 44 years of age, short, wears gatamcocck

3ses, ni | soustacto, and has brown hair, combed back» He works in the port of
| rt ot
| but because of Cuban

 

 

Habana,
government Duston regulations, obviating the mecessity for auch work, he will goon

 

be unemploynde
7. Tho source said that the UX and the 30 of November group are now working together

inside Cuba.
G- 2 car outside the Arenal theater in Habana, killing 2 Ge 2 men and losing one UR

Ke said that during the first part ‘of February 62 the UR ambushed a

fig said that this type of operation, ambushing cars, appeals to the UR and

mans
He said

for this reason LOPEZ is particularly desireous of obtaing hand grenades.

they would like to ambush a Soviet or Satellite car, and raise terro among the

Soviet and Satellite technicains in Cubs.

8. The sours said that he 4s told that the UR has several small groups ‘in the
Sierra Becanbray mountains, but that they ficht only a running action. He said
that Osvaldo RAMIREZ 43 in the Escambray also, but that he refused to joia any

 

i
group or movement and maintains his independence.
f :
9. The source identified the following as O- 2 agents:

i
}
 

 

sik Bas oka aeneipe yee

 

‘ane chlor, kD

Bl a

hier, suay2

soctp/ Operstdonal
£7 Operational beste/ Unicad “evolucionario (UR)

   
  

MICROFILMEO
Action “equeated: a) For ‘{nformation and pose! 1s Gag aby
b) Carding and iniexing
: / DOC. MICRO. SER.

1.) On 12 March 1962 Santiago CASAMAYOR Alonso (hsreindtter referred to
+ the source), Alisa Begistration. number A 12891749, bern 2$ July 30

ana, was interviewsd. lis Miami acdress -ta 237 Sd lst "treat, Apte
t telephone on which be can be reached 373~ 9950.

Source e244 that he as a member of Unidad Kevolucionario (UR) and
the general coordinator |

26

 

 

 

             

 

of, the, UR who fe etill inside Cuba. Eefore leaving Cubs LOPiZ told the

[ arclving
source that on axxkag in the United States, he should try to make contact

with either ir Frank Eelsité as he, LOPiZ, had contact with
. “both men in Cuba and had e-operated with them. LOPEZ told tho source that
be am the organizatica, the UR, needed plastic explozives and gerandez.
He also said that tte Ux is collecting information which will be ready for
transaittal on or about 20 March 62,. This informtion incluies diagrass

of the Shell and Standard zafimiwe refineries in Habana, a list of Come

and O- 2 members, ani ekipping ‘information on all Cuban ports, showing

a
the dite the vez (eels arrive, date of departure, ami the identity of the

“cargos
3e The source said that LOPEZ can be reached in the following ways:

 

| @e A mailing aidress is |

| | Babana. The telephone number sf | This

is the home 6f LoPEzé Folatives, ani that they can get in touch with

LoPs2 quickly.
| be LOPE lives at Hove

Vedado. Anyone wishing to ake personal contact should use the following

 

 

 

phrase for bona fices, °I come on the part of BLEAX CASAMAYOR® 9
| . OS copy | 14- [20 - 2
 

Pare 3

Py “

Se ;
SN a a Cer zy

 

Nene Be Rolando a Betancourt offCalie L CELLS Epbrasa 127, Guanabicoa.

 

He 4a an 9 Loyes of. O- 2 and works ina ban da Habana located at tho
TE ner an AMA Jocated at the

corner of Fabric nd Concha streets.
ITA BA .
4 b. Reabaryd unto (Hernandez) a sérgeant in the traffic. police.
a ee
He, lives AnaSeparto Santo Swirez, Habana. His brother was an Ambassador
ER RO Se Oe Mabanas a ar

|
to, Costa Rica during the time of Hatista. Source knew CANTO in Caracas
Sar nai

 

embra

   
 

ay the time of the Cuba Raj ‘olution, and that CANTO has. since
~ A Comer) ‘™ 8-2

 

a8 Tho source saii that rationing cards exist’ in Habana, and said that
separate ration cards were issued for various items, Thore is a card for.

molt, on one for ‘lard and butter, and - “nother entitled Warios* which was the

card for toothpaste and items of this nature. He said that on the bottom of

card there were: spaces for the various months and on receiving the month's
ta, the respective month | wag punched, The bearer of the card must also-
shaw that. bis rent for the month was paid before he can iy his ration. He

e plained that the reason these cards are rarely seen outside Cuba is the

fade that it is issued to a household, and it is generally ert behind to enable

thd mune remaining members of tha household to. continue receiving their
rations, , : : 4

me Source was was a printer by trade said that P, Fernandez, a “abana
printing tim, had at least tm two locations which he knew of. One is

on (obispo Street entre Mercaderes y San Inx Ignacio; the ‘other on Sanja

entre San Franoisco y Hospital. He estimated the former had 30 employes,

i
and the latter 20. He said he hadn't passed by the former printing shop

Prcenthy, but as to the latt-r, he said he has never seen’ ay outside

protection whenever he has passed ite

titel Satin AAI LEE te bebabre camen@iey terse cateehece

BY og

 
 

 

‘
Hf
}
i

hot

|

 

12. The source said that he could not return to Cuba legally,

 

ho wag too

» he thought, but he would be able to cooperataé in any way he coulds

Nalso L. Raynock = :

 
