74-0000

are .
. - : a oN vtec a
. CaQ-P-Y
Cytan Anti-Castro Gu la A, of A
, ° EERNANGSS

ad
1, Atberte FeOWNET( the ons of Ping PRRRANDEZ Casas} the
wealthy land-owner who raised three million dollars for Fidel
CASTRO's cause before the overthrow of BATISTA, and who was, until
recently, the head of the Inatitute de la Asucar (Sugar Institute),
bas eet up a guerilla organization of 400 of hie ex-employees inside
Cura. This organization has the backing of rich American businesanen,
"and {t is FERRANDEZ's intention to expand this force and keep it vell
supplied with money, arma and ammunition with which to carry out acts
of sabotage. , :
2. FERNANDEZ bas asked the following three persons to help himt
(1) Eduardo PERFER, the former Inspactos General of the Cuban
. Ate Force, who left Guba in July 1960.
(2) Teddy VEITEROUSE, a pilot of Eritich extraction, who

see emg atin oe

earlier in 1960 wae responsible for setting fire to
_ Sugar erops from the air, : ,
(3) Geoffrey-ROBERTS of Betler, Roberta Associates, Ine, who
was R.CA.'s representative in HAVANA aod who was in

HERE es ani tar eens

 

a _. ,_, Charge of all microvave and airwiy instsllaticns of RCA,
ee uit be bad to leave the country, “Ho has provided |
i ; FERNANDEZ ‘a orguilsation with alt frequencies ef Si tand
. : equipsent and wicrovave equipent wasd by the Cuban
t : Goverment: and they are now able to intercept messages sent

a out on these channela,
3. The organization has two ‘£0fts wotor cruisers and is about

to purchase two more. These craft will be used as mother ehips
: torf sas
 

 

04-40172-10084}

“y

 

Ta ny MO0/1269 of 16th November, I mentioned the
FERNANDEZ opposition group. I have now received a further
more detailed report on this group, and ae it may be of
interest to you, I attach a cop y. ,

We have no information on the identities of the rich
American businessuan said to be financing the group.

Yours sincerely,

 

ob Col
[> Clevalami C, crea] o : n a

_ ATEACHMENT.

 

. . : . : of . 67 * -
an “> Seose7 Me yada CoM RM
\
Cn0-P«¥
M0/1326
12 December 1960 '
Ob
; [Dear Creve, |
, ConA

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA

Backgrou
Do Not

ind Use Only
Reproduce

 

He
14-00000 |

ig

t

C-B. P.Y

we
for aupplying equipaent to Cuban anti-Castro guerillas and it ta
Planned to Work thea fron British cays off the Cuban coast, Thay
are to be supplied by light aircraft which can land on these eayas
each boat will have @ fast hydroplane for delivering supplies to
the interfor.

ke ‘At the request of the Frente Revolucionario Denocratice

(F.E.D, — Revolutionary Democratic Front) FERNANDEZ's organization
recently brought TEJERA (fou) from Cuba by boat to the United States,
Apparently TEJERA hed been a close intimate of Fidel CASTRO, the
Cuban Prime Minister, and was brought out of “vba at the request of
the United States Goverment. .

5. | Alberto FERNANDEZ has been a@ked by Manuel Antonie (Tony)
VAROKA of the P.R.D. to take over the Oriente Province for the P. fed.
when that organisation mkes its planned invasion of Cuba,

 

 
