74-0000

“ip

In addition, Kimsey stated that he had talked to people return-

C. . . ( gf RETURNS ne SA
Bankground Use Onn:
dso Mot Reproduce,

 

 

ing from Okinawa who said that at the time of Lon Thomas's
TDY to Okie about a year ago, Thomas didn't do any work and |

i
would not handle their problems.

oe t
2. Kimsey talked at length about his work, reiterating oe

 
   

Ls) :
that he was in charge of security for Goldwater's eampstsn ee - :
. aes
during his campaign. He claimed that he has recently. been .
ae fs
asked to handle security requirements for Martin Luther King’ s ee

forthcoming trip to Washington, and, that when the job was- offered
he was advised that four additional people would be required,

and that he would be paid $10 a hour for his services. He
indicated that he declined this job offer because he felt that
some people around Dr. King were interested ‘in other causes.
Kimsey advised that he was currently involved. in selling .
electronic alarm systems, that they have a contract to install -
such a-system in the new Kuwait Embassy. on Connecticut Avenue.
Mrs indicated that he was not doing this on his own,
pane net

but had a triona fi in with him, Kimsey inferred

that he also had a prospect for a similar job with the Belgian:

Embassy. Kimsey went on to say that he has close contacts with
the UAR f assy in Washington. He described the Enbassador as
being a journalist by profession and that both he and his wife
were born in Palistine. Kimsey apparently discussed the

dichotomy of this but inferred that it was pretty common knowledge

and the subject of some joking around town.
 

‘[rod-t0a50-10078]

 
 

f 2 OA
( j @ ekoround Use Ont
Bo Not Reproduce

27 July 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT . : Herman Kimsey

1. On 23 July, urs.| ____jaavisea the following

regarding her call from Mr. Kimsey. Mr. Kimsey did not direct-
ly question her on activities of individuals within the
Questioned Documents Section of TSD. She, however, had a.s
strong impression that he was well informed on what was

going on on a rather current basis. He appeared to be' aware
that Mrs had changed her location of employment. [as he

has done in the past, he indicated that he knew that Lon Thomas

 

was not working hard and for all intents and purposes was not

doing his job. He indicated that Jan Beck was overworked

because. he had to carry most of the load in QDS and that

he might be considering getting another job. Kimsey appeared

to be concerned regarding this, as he had predicted it in the a
past, and he felt that if this happened, the QDS capability
would be lost to TSD and the Agency. Kimsey considers him-

self responsible for all the good work involved in the estab-
lishment of the QDS capability in TSD, Kimsey further reitera-
ted that desk officers within TSD had advised him that there

is no respect for QDS in TSD, that work they sent to QDS to be

done usually was not done in time, thus in decision making they

for the Qps  “'¥f ed
J

 

 
74-0000

a

connected with the Anastasia case will soon be published in

C CRevuRn ro CIA
‘ackground Use Only
s Ge Not Reproduce
3. Kimsey continues to be deeply involved in the
Goleniewski case which was publicised in the Washington Daily
anuary
News on 19 June 1965. He still thinks that this man is the
son of Czar Nicholas Ii, and that none of this family died
in the Bolshevik massacre as reported at the time. At this
point, he indicated that he continues to work closely with the
security people at Langley seeing them every few days on

this matter. .In addition, he stated that he had close liaison

with the FBI. Kimsey said that a translation of: some: papers

California, and that these papers make no reference to the
fact that members of his family were killed in 1918. Eugenia
Smith, who claims to be Anastasia, a woman now in her middle -
60's, was said to be suing Speller & Co, over publishing of
the Anastasia pook. Kimsey inferred that Eugenia Smith is a

nymphomaniac, has a daughter and a granddaughter who are living

behind the Iron Curtain, and who are blackmailing her not to

accept the identity of Anastasia. He further inferred that

she has travelled quite a number of times to Europe and that

recently she has had difficulty with the immigration authorities

who might deport her. Her trial _is due to come up in October .! 34)".
4. A questioning of Mr egarding her assessment

of the personal characteristics and stability of Kimsey reflects

 

the following. Mrs. said that Kimsey, while an Agency

 

 

 

employee, had psychiatric problems and at one time had been

 

 
 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
. ( Background Use Oniy
( ~\ Do Not Reproduce

seeing a psychiatrist. She does not know further details
regarding this, When he left the Agency (701), he was
visibly shaken and upset, however, his basic pride and
personality prevented him from showing outward SES at

the decision. He instead covered up/his many references

to the many other jobs that Ké had been offered to him in
the Agency or made references to the fact that he was not.
leaving at all, but would be working as a consultant on

some of the more important Agency problems, Mrs indi-
cates that she considers him to be «# paranoiac. He however
alleges that he has strong loyalties to the Agency and tries
to always continue the facade that he is current on matters

relating to the Agency and is importantly involved in Agency

activities. He continues to Live at Vivi Hotel in Washington,

basically a very lonely person,

Curtis H, McSherry
Chief
TSD/Liaison Security Staff

 

 
