 

 

 

we

 

   
     

Disarie Senta Are HUMOR

O51 14,272

    
    

 

ChABHIFICATION

SECRET

   
  
 

   
  

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

   
 

 

   

d. Of the tuller group, which was called the "127", about & prisoners were
taken, five of whom, including source, were set freee One of these was
an infiltrator oslled Flores, whom no one trusted since they knew that,
he was not “one of the group.”. Another of these was Rolando Valdes,
‘Diielf who is now in prigon in the ‘Fortaleza de la Cabaiia serving a nine+
yoar, sentence. He was captured trying to escape ina cer belonging to a
militiaman and wearin, a militia uniform. He defended himself bravely, but
received five bullet wounds which incapacitated him. The other two who
wero released were Eduardo Diaz Lang and Jorge Crus Peiia, a sergeant in
the Rebel Army who was with Castro in the Sierra. The letter had actually
not been involved in the groups Source thought that he (source) and Dias
Lanz were released so that they might be followed and lead the Government
.t0 other groups and individuals in Havana who might be involved in
resistance activitye Source had been in prigon six months tefore being
Heleased, and. one thing which hé could not explain was that on the: ‘paper
that he wae given which indicated his release, no mention was made of any

seritence or penalty.

 
       
   
   
         
     
   
   
   
        
 

On several ccoasions, Muller had been subjected to false execution

procéiures, with the purpose of trying to make him talk, out he did not.
. weaken. During the trial, “everyone remained firm," and zource was told
that. Muller wae very brave in his pronouncements aguinat the Hegime and,
at every moment, abided by his principles. He presented a very. brilliant

self-defense.

        
      
    

f. When source was in the Boniato prison, he shared a cell with a Captain
An{bal Rodr{guec, who belonged to the ARR. This officer, along with other
rebel officers and soldiers, had’ staged an upriging in inles, in Oriente
Province. Later he was sentenced to deati and shot.

 
      
    

During bis last days in Cuba, source avoided all revolutionary activity,
since he wanted to leave Cuba more than anything else. However he knew
that the various resistance groups worked hard, oarrying out a great deal -
of independent sabotage activity, although there was ‘not much coordination
among the various movements. One movement whioh hada. large membership,
especially in Oriente Provincey:was the B=JO=-I1. This group was planning to
launch an insurrection in Pinar del Rfo in January 1962, but they could
‘not carry it out-since the repression in the area was so greate .

Be

 
       
   
     
    

s be Hans, a momber of the Revolutionary Student Directorate, was recently
taken prisoner, and it seemed that he was tortured a great deal and
talked. As a result. of thia, a house in Wajay, in Havana Province, was
seized and arms and gelatina wera found. The owners of the nouse and other

‘persons Yere arrested.

     
 
 

    

   

bo ; Helen 8 Caporla ;
: row

Attachmants Spanish report — 1

    
    

Distributions

   

R- Ac/iz, w/att.
2 = O/T

 
     

T Fy akerewrarinn

 
  

40174-10047).

   

_DISPFAICH | osecter Geo
_ cee sc

OY URLS.
paca TSB os

ition meQuSRD meets :
ACTION: FYI

‘The following information was provided by Franoisco Luis Rodrigues .
Gonzales (CC-1169), a Cuban refuges. who. arrived in’ Spain in ‘early auguas ool. .
1962 ond-had been active in the Revolutionary. Student. Directorate, cr °
anti~Government resiatance group, while in Cubae fy ;

fea
« Source has been opposed to the Castro regine ever since: cthe. detection of
‘Diaz Lanz “in May 1959, and was involvod in sabotage activity with.
evolutionary Student Directorate. Hie immediate supervisor wa
known as "Charles" in clandestine ciroles. Alberto
tho leadex¥ of this group, arrived clandestinely in Cuba in Qotober or
November 1960 and began to organize the various groups of,;Uirectorate. to
boring about an insurrection in the Si idaestra area, in Oriante Frovince.
‘These groups were mainly from tha provi Ged of Las Villas ‘and Havana, and
received orders to unite with Luller who was already in the Siepra Kaestra.
The men went there in small groups, and had the seminary in the Santuario
del Cobre as their destination. Once in that spot, they received final
instructions and military equipment. Source's group, which consisted of two
oarloads, entered the Sierra Maestra through Bayamo. Source was riding in
the. first car. When they arrived on the outakirts of Bayamo, source's car
. waa stopped by the militia, but the car *an allowed tO pass without any
oheck. ‘A few minutes later they realized that they were bein: 1ollowed and
tried to escape. An alarm and shots went up, and they were finally ceptured
and taken prisoner. Tne second car, which was following close behind them
and was warned by the shcts, was able to escapes .

 

 

. °
b. the prisoners were taxen first to G-2 Headquarters in Santiago de Cuba and
later to the Boniato Prison, where they were interrogated by the G=2. |
There were two American prisoners thera, and although source did not know

their names, he said that they were from the Cuantanamo.Naval Base.

o. Muller was taken prisoner a few days later (shortly after tha ill-fated
invasion of Flaya Giron). No arms were taken from hia when be wae arrested.
Had this insurrection been successful, about 4 000 men would have risen Ps

31 August '62) 31 august "62

 

ia
DISPATON SYMOCE AND MUMBER

OStA=14,272

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

 

my
