74-00000
ta see . . a .

aay hipwansc iis an

a ~ | |
eo ’ a ut 4
. foe ‘ 6 i 3
, aCe, -
' : , ne -5- \ .
: a ! ra
da. AMBIDDY/1 statec that with a dissolution ‘
of the CRC, his organization would be cut off
from its support of some $4,000 monthly. Apparent'y ‘
the MRR was paid $4,000 for April but has not { .
\

received anything for May. This was resolved. ’y , }
a telephone call by Chief SAS to WAVE on 2 May; : .
MRR to continue receiving this fund. .

- @. AMBINDY/1 also indicated a need for funds *
to pay the rent of the office used by the MRR. t-
(Idem phone call on 2 May.) : : | :

f

f. AMBINPY/1 stoted that he had heen asked
' by WAVE.to furnish personnel for infiltration into
Cuba, He stated that he is ready and able to do.
so and all he needs to know is how many and when.
He did ask, however, that these men not be asked
to give up their membership in the MRR and become
"“golely agents." When asked if he had experiences
‘of this type of handling in the past, AMBIDDY/1
stated that there had been cases when members of
his organization had been told to gorget their
-MRR membership, that now “they were working for
KUBARK." Chief SAS said that thig problem could ;
be resolved and added that he foresaw that under i
certain circumstances our Miami office could help : j
i

 

AMBIDDY/1 to put his people into Cuba for the
"“{ndependent" operations, especially in case of
Korth Coast ops. .

g. AXMBIDDY/1 advised he was presently training at :
gome of his perscnnel in intelligence and counter~ 3°
Antelligence work. He wondered if it would be
possible to have KUBARK assist the BRAC officer i
he is using to do this. Chief SAS told him that i
KUBARK would be willing to assist, but that our - che q
training. requirements were exceedingly heavy and , ot Fs
4t would be difficult to say when this could be .

‘done. At. this point Chief SAS stated that he
would’from time to time send experts to assist
AMBIDDY/1 but that. these men would not be part of
the permanent. group supporting and advising AMBIDDY/1.

  

- i» 2, The meeting ended: with assurances on the part of AMBIDDY/1
that he was willing. to go all: out to ‘work with KUBARK; that. the
MRR. had the longest list of- martyrs in the Cuban cause; that it
- fed been his organization that had put in the greatest number

    
   
 

 

Pa RCRA REND 2A OR etapa taste ates moe minnesota sete ence oe ans

Nin ene

eden T es

oe

i

-6-

of arms into Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion and finally
that the MRR. and AMBIDDY/1 could be counted upon. Chief, SAS

assured AMBIDDY/1 of his high estee

m Of AMBIDDY/1 and his

organization, of which he had heard and read much, Chief, SAS

met with AMBIDDY/1 as Don Archer,

03

 

 

 

  

_ Distribution: * _
1 - AC/SAS
1 - SAS/SO/AR - Chrono
1 - Subject File (with extra copies)
.
M9 7 oo
: ° “Onan

 

+

 

 

1 enna Rte RR A a EA RAIN AO aor A et

"p20

nate aid AS ioe

1 Be lahS nate se sue oe

 
74-0000

 

=

 

- . ont ia

a a toeag ;

thet is, they would be close enough for him to "reach
for them." :

 

C. To furnish the advice, Chief SAS stated that he
-Would make available an experienced, mature, able case
officer and-a small team to support our representation
in contact with AMBIDDY/1's group. Specifically, Chier
S48 mentioned a younger ¢ase officer to help our
representative, a man-of~allwork, a translator, and two :
radio operators. AMBIDDY/1 assured that he had a man for :
the job of translator,

 

... D. No Contract Yet: Chief SAS emphasized at this :

-time, as he did on Several other occasions during the

conversation, that he was not empowered to “sign a contract"

with AMBIDDY/1 and he emphasized in equally strong terns

that this assistance does not include any commitments of

U.S. troops under any circumstances; except that, as

_ Secretary of Defense McNamara had previously stated, th>

U.S. would not stand idly by if the Soviet Union shoul.

commit its troops to surpress a popular uprising of the

Cuban people. Any victory won would be a Cuban vict cry.
7 Chief SAS stipulated the above four points to be the :
. ground rules for the exploratory and actual work relation-~ . vt

ship between AMBIDDY/1 and the Agency. :

E. At this point, Chief SAS turned to the questions
which must be answered before the next step can be taken
in this plan. It would be necessary for AMBIDDY/1 to
. sh the following: .

1... & base fron which to operate.
. :2, Individuals dedicated and stout-hearted enough :
to return to the fight of freeing Cuba. ; 4 a
: a i

: 3. °A general plan as to what can be done and _ ; ’
how to go about it. . : : : .

‘At this point, Chief SAS emphasized again that this is to
be a “Cuban ‘show" and an attempt to prove that Fidel can
be destroyed by the efforts of the Cuban people.

. F. Chief SAS reminded AMBIDDY/1.that the first order
* of business was to be the procurement of a base and that .
' AMBIDDY/1 should proceed after a waiting. period of approximately . . ,
three days to survey the Caribbean area, Specifically . ae .
mentioned -by Chief SAS were Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, . a HO
4 .
and Colombia. At this time AMBIDDY/1 mentioned that he had RETURN TO CIA 7

   
   
 

   

been told by WAVE representatives to seratch Nicaragua asa.
' Possible base for the reason that this is a "dictatorship." Background

anat

 

  
 

‘toa t0162-10222

ee aoe

LOST/MISSING MATERIAL

THE DOCUMENT OR PAGE(S) LISTED BELOW WAS/WERE MISSING
DURING THE DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW BY THE HISTORICAL
REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE.

” DOCUMENT NO. - patep:_1% 6?

te)

R
PAGE(S) of Cin & fptce MeEvO

FROM:
CIA gop No. Micesrum- ARTI

BOX NO. |
FOLDER No. “ZiT.

RETURN TO ClA
Ba round Use
Do No? Reproduce
74-0000

 

coy
-3-

Philosophy, The possibility of a Nicaraguan base was
accepted. Chief SAS made it perfectly clear that if
AMBIDDY/1's negotiations with these governments should be
leaked or if the U. + Government were officially asked if
the U.S. Government would deny

at eonld conc

SCCLVAb1Y make Kuown its Sympathy with AMBIDDY/1's

of the U.S. Government cannot and will not be revealed,
but at the same time we would be Willing to unofficially
and informally assist » however possible,

G. Chief SAS told AMBIDDY/1 that once he had pr. cured
a base and prepared a plan, it would be":ossible for Chief
SAS to take the operation one step further and seek -~ .
approval in Washington. Chief SAS. observed tL’.t word .

will get around that AMBIDDY/1 has the support of the U.S,

the story of Support by certain Central American countries
and even European aid, specifically from.General DeGaulle

Cubans, who really want to fight Castro: and Conmunisn,
rallying to AMBIDDY/1. This would mean that AMBIDDY/1
would find it necessary to be selective in his choice of
collaborators, AMBIDDY/1 agreed that-"quality"” should be
the criteria, ,

H. Chief SAS observed that the number of collaborators

‘would determine how many people would be needed to support
- the operation, as would the size of the base. The conversa~

tion dwelt for some time on the equipment that would be

‘Boat with two General Motor's engines. . Chief SAS. stated

that. he would like to have a representative of his in the
WAVE area see AMBIDDY/1's boat, in order to assess its

. General seaworthiness. This was fine with AMBIDDY/1. In

this connection AMBIDDY/1 stated that he can provide a

» €rew. for. this boat, the mechanics necessary to keep it in

Operation, as well as men familiar with wéapons and logistics.

oo, -
Cy =F . De
oem .

hae ati Seiten feet Se

si tte a te et

 
 

bec:

Swwgt : *

AMBIDDY/1 obviously was not too sure of his strength in

the logistical field. Chief SAS noted that he might be
uble. to lend a log officer to help in this regard. So

far as radio operators are concerned, AMBIDDY/1 informed
Chief SAS that he bas these but that he does not have the
necessary equipment. To close his part of the conversation,
Chief SAS referred again to the fact that his representative
would be present to advise the group, that it would not be

“necessary to completely agree with the advice, and that if

in fact the adviser sent to AMBIDDY/1 proved unacceptable,
another could be substituted for him. Typically, AMBIDDY/1L
hastened to assure Chief SAS that they would certainly be —~
able to get along with his representative, and that he

. foresaw no diitilcuity ox getting on with the pruvics of

 

et

finding a base and presenting a plan. Chief SAS emphasized

‘that he did not want a minutely detailed plan, but the

concrete outline of AMBIDDY/1's ideas, At this point Chief
SAS asked AMBIDDY/1 to take up whatever points he had in
mind. These follow:

1. AMBIDDY/1's Statement: AMP*DDY/1 has had
some problems along the following lives:

a. An inability to work out satisfactorily

.8 radio program to be beamed to Cuba. According
‘to AMBIDDY/1, a.pjan has been worked out for a
ten-.~.nute program, three times weekly on a station
which beams largely to the exile community and is

- able to reach only a very limited part of Cuba.
This is not a satisfactory solution to their (MRR)
problem. ; .

b. Problems surrounding publication of issue
number two of his newspaper. Apparently the
station wants another memo from AMBIDDY/1 regarding

- desue number two, (Chief SAS took up with WAVE -
- ‘on 2 May.) : an . oO

¢.. ‘AMBIDDY/1 states. that approximately one
‘month .ago he had raised the question of the .
architect “convention to be held in Cuba, and that
he had provided WAVE a contact with an exile
. axchitect but that nothing concrete had come of
. this to date. (Note: At this point Chief SAS
reminded AMBIDDY/1 that it has been difficult to
arrive at a solution of certain problems during
’ this period when so much attention has been. diverted
-to the problems: of the hit-and-run raids and. the
“erdsis. within the CRC.) .

rae et oer

tava

 

1 nants He WEE Bint

ahaa

 
