 

   

COC UNCLASSIFIED -

 

ay wat CONE: aes
te. out » (CONF. NTIAL Bx]. SECRET

, Poe “ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional) oes on : - —_

   

   
   

 

 

 

 

2 May 1975

 

 

 

“COMMENTS (Number each comment to show: from whom:
‘te whom.:: Draw-@ Hine’ across column after each. comment.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM: :. 6] USE PREVIOUS

one: foe SECRET = ([] CONFIDENTIAL =F] (ESSAY 0 7] UNCLASSIFIED

 

 

 
SECRET

had indicated in writing to DC/OPS Staff, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, ather than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that
he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum. }

t
7. It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
‘time should bear in. mind that a subsidiary decision must
‘also be made,/i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up
“ithe background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
‘publish. the entire run of the photographs. for the first
_ time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material |
to Mc. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of. what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is. my understanding
that there are still sensitive.aspects deriving from the

 

 

  
  
 
  

 

 

 

in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not=been anything published about this aspect

at any time..in the past nor have we had any discussions
“with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

C2

Raymond G. Rocca

 

Attachments:
as stated

 

 
13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General
Don:

Iam returning this to you for at least -
temporary safe-keeping.. Please see a copy \
of my letter of this date te David Belin. in ,
which I invite him to. check with.us.if he wants

further details. . I have this book in mind..
_E ere

43 May 1975
(DATE)

FORM NO. lol REPLACES FORM 10-101 : a7)
t ave sa 'U!* aitcH may BE USED. “a7

 

Attachments: a/s

   

 

we
. CenTraL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

en 4
. Aye
Orrice or Tue Direcror ig ey DD
’ fd

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities
Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

Iam attaching, per your request of 15 April,
background materials. relating to certain questions
relating to Oswald and the Warren Commission.

Tab A is a classified Secret memorandum
responsive to your request. Tab'B is an unclassi-
fied version, . which you can use as you see fit

in whatever report you aré preparing on the subject.

Additional details are available in the Office
of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue
this in greater depth.

Faithfully yours,
E. H. Knoche

~ Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s -

o,
104-10322-10009b

 

 

 

. oe * Cenrran INTELLIG: 7 AGENCY

 

Orrice or Tae Dinecror

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities.
Within the United States

13 MAY. ig7e

". Dear Mr. Belin:

Iam attaching, per your request of 15 April,
background materials relating to certain questions
relating to Oswald and the Warren Commission.

- _- Tab ‘Ais a classified Secret memorandum

responsive to your request. Tab B is an unclassi-—
‘fied version, . which you can use as you see fit
. in whatever report you are preparing on the subject.

Additional details are available in the Office
- of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue
this in greater depth. :

. Faithfully yours,

E. H. Knoche
Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s . =

   

EHKnoche:rrh:5/13/75 | _
Distribution: re
Orig + Mr. Belin w/att ~ : .

-4-0GC wo/att

1 -I1G wo/att

{ - Knoche Chrono wo/att

1°- " Comm Correspondence wo/att
1 - Belin Letter Request 15 April

“- Warren Commission

wifatt
 

SECRET

2 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings regarding

: : ot Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City ‘published. by the
Warren Commission

REFERENCE 3 Letter dated. 15 April 1975 by
. oo - Mr. David W..Belin, Executive Director’
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to
‘ Mr.. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached . to
accompanying report)

1. This - is further to, and in completion of my
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. The: ttachment ~ isa detailed review in narrative,
_chronological. order together with appropriate comment-—
ary - of. our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that
-have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on 1, 4 and 15. October 1963 of an
Unidentified. Individual. As a consequence of a combina-
tion: of-analytical error, misjudgement and under the
stress of an urgent desire to. contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one of the phatographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in. the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. ‘The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
-narrative.-

SECRET

 

eh _meort et gy ee
 

SECRET

3. The attached report is not intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin

‘attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-

by-paragraph refutation dnd comment on that, article,
which I. believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa-
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as
a memorandum if that is desired.) -

4. The point of the referenced memorandum is that
consideration should be given now to "whether or\not the
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This
submission is designed to make. it possible for you, the
IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this

_decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been

put together in such a way that it. discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo
well heyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must
be borne .in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: There

is only one Sopy of this collection; this is it-T

5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken in
Mexico City.on.4 October 1963 was introduced into the
Warren Commission ‘public record.” . However, .it was intro-
duced -into»that.. record in two cropped versions. -The
Warren Commission and its. staff were made fully aware in
the course of their inquiry .at Headquarters and in

' Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact

that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assassination.

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-

.gxaphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these ag /S
' reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the

narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,
2

SECRET
