 

" Fowemmnt peopia, end the politicos, eves as

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

ae

Actas pcemed sexmmvnat Iporequad with sere ure ces
wigut ose wietever fofduence he fe0-t¢ urfice ns
ba described as Seing cestitute in New Tork anc.
streatensd scicise, to treak uvey veo tre goliti

 
  
 
     

ssa Join tha ray.

 

 

  

3. Rojae.tben degen 9 ¢ 324k ¢ Usa tase dsvferiscey DeTwEeE agnin
Watt te calls the young revolutioraties, as gisal 2

       
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 

veon they refer toma "Los Viejos®. Tre pur: >
Wit “Los Viejos” in power tyat Cobe vil elite ta
Political reginga ard Gust (2-99 note gee re
Propegitiom Uet tke orlasral eine of the
without Castro end, of carey, wdtiect cry
curiously referred to thie gollc.ess- an 1. <
Pigst. I gait teat tiie wiew a? then wes concise: yo to the etew
beld vy moet who consiser fren to Ub Liieral
left. Z edseo thre 2f toeee osszla vers Asy
be a source of serious worry to the 0. 8. Cover:
exrjeet.

&. Ea wanted thet to krov fy fs woul! oe voulble ror tre 2. BS.
Gorernaeet to leat its exppoct to mre team oe aPitee Koes t reegen eds
thet tha U. 5. Goverment une net supperticg Lay stomp
Be vest cw to sty yoat 22 sagpery canis be aiein fo £
tbe military types he bed weetiined pwevicas y
for example, te e vatle argantention (stsces ot

‘ag ctevice to the”
27 Taste Lat
*nee, Fojse

 

 

dels, tiny would
+ Rojes conned the:

 

 

  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 

they will rewerest a healtein anv. as
whist eanld be wiry Camyrag ta U, 3
feir saeznt of sabstinss +a tala amd 235 7
Rojas wes given. the vorstan wce\dl. 0. tneolvemran ct tess. ertle effaire.
(whieb, of eourse, be aves LIM Ly, ad BCr lee Seat ts do Waasver be ea
Ah yresoe, Re vse soli thet the FED
appeared te he toe group walts eed. ‘une grectest x ecisekica art eraacest
agparect potential for wieoies. cod chat ell serocsrsa weglu he vell ecel
View’ 30 alsompt (6 we TQ VEDE ELT. heme 62s thse iw has a strong:
feeling that crfiy mm ttle “suite war noe voauitie et cris sims because j
Ste feeling sores the yHteg rer Uitioarins wes tin: tw Ligh: esd toe?
deotionally agaias§ the FAG. Re tald be though: those yng vey slutionertes
fee thet they isve bewn tromey cat 5, sellesnc 2g wal accd, Gad their:
friswis cod ecmtacts La the Se 6. Covecrwyss rave twesed thelr cccka ard.
etandonad them. Beare of this they am. sorfering bitierness an! @ise 4
Ullssicuwat. Zojes then sergested tree permirs I swild be vwillirg to 7
arrange & westing for Fim with au reeveemtative cl ine 2D. cpectfieally
thin wae tot tale ste of the fire prince’ els. 335 coul! eee with ef ini
an eMaag? fe vetteu their siftacenees eal ee tivities Teleticetaips and j
eoopeta tics with t2¢ FRD, J toid Mie thee hla wns au latereering eage-stion
vet I Bhoweht 44 ae soe possftl= Lue tes a3 the. .f. Soncomat, wale

 
 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

i nn ha same ec Sn cSAy 145 L vadeetoe ins Masonite Ah Saalne eal

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

ah
 

$04-10468-10002

 

roe

28 Septenter 1969

SECRARR FOR Gas RECORD
SURIECP ¢ Bepart ci Meeting with Sergio Rojas

sereearcas (ren (IH 17910), ce ceptester 1960

a\-\

Bew Yerk on 2§ septestcr, esing the incretfsle eee.
3 Terokee, amt ke ar0ad &9 stop

a :

|

1 — 25-4190

I

ry

i
i
|

2 D3

 

 

 

“Ye.

  

vee a nla tama ted oh

ca 27 September. Rojas beges our covreresston With 0 Lenathy é4securse §

ietending to ecteblish a pistere ef hivcelf as a Cumplst: tevtral apne |

the cepesing Gcbaa celia «Tory, ha Est Data a cosas of eny croup ead

 

4

I wephoned kajes tn 4
dGLtion prrase gives :
a? ia ¥ sbiegtas on :
_ j
Sheretum-Cerlten Zotel i
4

i? ‘

fact i tha eccrse. of a
3a history cf the ePRs j
elit ef the I@R q

; q

a. ¥Ath the FED, Ee preesnted tha tecel araunenti thet tue bod bet mace g
bad mistake tm allowing AEDINTeR 8). a tooty.ev presas tanive is the yz,

med AMATLZe) eee eabcequsstly eaptared by the polis

" dergely to the exeleated of tie JGR interest. (Tie argumct, vhieh tao,
fe aecureteae. Ig ip tha:

" G8. Welk presentwd by Rajes os I've ever bed it,
éeeep uncer t24 Tey

iwtevésts fa the Pav,

asd p3rkipe have ned

EA. whie ie te
taken sufficient motice of the fact that the AW disidzats, ao ealled,

nry Medeb wore expalied froa the Pub, vee Ls feat the wart core of the artgim?

about

Altsnaa also ex3 eaté thet he beg |

) the
telned vith a pember of theeg people fa Nv Tork une cay Rafore. Ke

lows ly lametey ime faced het a emiter of valnadla: vage,

of the eiiltery tyze, ore Saing Wages! ag a veault ef tiene aitTereness |

BP egts bie this £ greed Vith bin But that J thouct thas tee seistian

 

i300, and cane tirally

iFreseuadly, Bejnc
S-ausceoted da (le care. od

  

i

 

19

Reetion thut pesple of this type wars telmy vietlatsos ty such peuple ep } es

Lads Coute Aguere who in scpgart of their co'ttical aepirotions ere aging: a)
these ailicery types fer Winlot-énemning sad political bargninieg foldare : ‘

 

teem toca hae etn

 
 

 

 

 

 

{
E
i
4

“

2¢ matwtatus a continuewe isterest (x these affo:
eeptact with the eaveral grovpa, Le not acd viii.
Rojes said be knows tule te he exten end dg ben
Chet thy U. H. Govermecnt {5 not roemserkag the é
saggeetion to Rin that bo iniuse bie frisuse, e225
to cppreech the FED agnia and attwumyt on their cvs v2 328 AccorotAs
tian... Is duing ao, 1 eazgneted tazy night ect gig the services
of aa olicr, pare sophisticated, mature indivicnel voce they ecald sresth
te tsprecent thes in theses ovartures te the Pau, Ioeufd T thinset thet
the Sata ciftiealties, far example, even frou peor representation. 2
‘balieve that Rojee inmculittshy mentally sast hieseir in this rela. Qo
aileceseions ended at this poizth.

net boa ocesefaash
weed Ssrouets.

ed st the Ineistenca
liesde the comtete
Agsets st) Lorle,

  
  
 

 

 
   

§o Rofac said thet bs wes plauring to otey {mn Vleet culy a few daye,
after which be vols returt to London. £4 sald fertve that if ag a
result of his visit hera 22 became ecmvinced thas ne coulé aeemtribate
gebstantiaily to thi: Cuban exile sitmaiion in tle W. 5., be vould retersy
otbervise, be plane to roraig im duroge ord atterns to find erploywert
there. Jn Yiswd be stated be Wil stay vite Lorie, wmoce nev phone oveber
Ls Cheal 6d10a, . : .

TEVA A. BETCMMARDT
BRedla (28 Sept w960}
DisteToattess ;

O » CfiR/e

Le Eujas doseter
2 = tay/4/PA Chorme

 

  
 
  
   
