 

 

 

 

me Eunding and Accountabllity, Since this project Lt
will only” Involve salary for the most part, no unusual 1G

‘requirements are deemed necessary. for accountability. In

seme age ae

te

. }

 

i
i
i
i

¢. [Eorelgn Currency. ie is ant 1é1pated chat any

forseeable foreign currency requirements will be within the
Station's capacity to handle.

d. Gonmitments. No commitments have, been made. to
LIHUFF/1 other than a salary of $300.00 per month with a
thirty day’ s notice on termination,

 

 
 
  
   
 
  
  
    
   
   

the event that funds are passed for any type of special
activity other than salary, normal standards of accountability i.
wilh be used. ; |
8. Annexes, |:
-a@. Administrative Plan or Fiscal Annex, Not applicable.
b. Gonmunications, Not applicable.
. i
c. Technical Support, Not applicable.

d. Logistics, Not applicable.

e. ul c How applicable.

9. Emergency Conditions, ©

tf an official anti- USA atmosphere of sufficlent

intensity prevalled In Mexico, LIHUFF/1] very probably would
not be able to maintain himself here, particularly if his
employment continued in his present capacity. « This,
howaver, Is not seen as anything except a very remote contin-
gency due to the Government of Mexico's dependence on the U.S.
tourist trade. In a general war, it Is probable that LIHUFF/1
would be able to continue in place without too much difficulty :
and would be willing to continue operating on current objectives .
or to undertake entirely new operations against new targets. 3
Gontact and communications should represent few problems In

xico.

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

}-
‘
!

ne meetin enemy

 

- probably, the compensatory return from KUBARK. He is witting

i
|
|
i
i
j
i
i.
.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

Mexican Government. Contact with him is covered by a social
relationship between his case officer and.himself; this is
easily maintained given the large American community in Mexico
City. He hes had no formal intelligence training other than
that he received from the Army during World War II and on the
job with KUBARK. Control of Subject is no problem inasmuch

as he is an American citizen and has had considerable
experience with KUBARK by now, His motivation is that of an
attraction to this type of work, being a U.S. citizen ina
foreign area, natural concern forhis business interests, and,

of his KUBARK association and, aside from his World War Ut '
intelligence experience with ODIBEX, in 1961 he had an . i
intelligence relationship with. ODIBEX which has long since - oP
been terminated. ce .

: (2) LICHANT/1. (OA granted on 22 April 1963,
but no number forwarded to field) -- Subject is a ver
conservative Mexican educator and intellectual about
of age. He has alternated between working in various
capacities for the in_Mexi
universities. At thé présén me,
position which gives him unique access
the general fields of education and politics as well as
considerable contact with other influential people in right- '
wing circles... He was recruited by LIHUFF/] in August 1962
on the pretext of doing research work and collecting infor-
mation for LIHUFF/I's general use for business purposes.
Subject has natural cover for obtaining: information on right-
wing activities from others due to his long association with
right-wing activities as a student, educator, and government
servant. Contact between Subject and LIHUFF/1 is maintained
under the guise of | | subject has
had no intellicence tratning from KUBARK other than that
imparted by LIHUFF/1 in discussing his reports. There has
been no problems in control since essentially. Subject under-
stands that this is a business relationship with certain
requirements involved for it to be sustained. Subject's
motivation is that of an intellectually-convinced conservative
who has common objectives and outlook with LIHUFF/1 on
political and economic matters plus the financial aspect of
the LIHUFF/1 relationship. Subject is not witting of KUBARK
or ODYOKE interest in his activities and reporting. He has no
known contacts with other intelligence or security services,
past or present. :

ho years

  
 
 
 

 

2 oho

 

 

 

b. Mechanisms, There will be no mechanisms Involved

In although LIHUFF /1 will continue to have-access *
to and, in turn, to ——— — for ;
intelligence purposes. .

 

 

 

 
 

 

economic climate in Mexico for the

  

5. Security Evaluation. |

in the unlikely, event of compromise, LIHUFF/1 could
continue to claim that he was not dolng anything that hundreds
of other businessmen, U.S. and Mexican, aren't doing as” | :
commonly-accepted practices try Ing to Influence the. politicos

r own benefit. Whatever

the extent of the compromise, there would be no repercussion
Insofar as other operations or activities per ge were
concerned except that there might be some tightening of the
general operational climate for a while. If, somehow,
LIHUFF/I's true role were disclosed, he could probably be
backstopped with a minimum of publicity through high-level
Station contacts with the Government (explaining the Station
Interest In right-wing circles as attempting to follow what -
they were up to In case they became a threat to the stabI lity
of the present government).

6. foordination. a G

0 coordination Is desirable or required with other

. Ni
ODYOKE or PBPRIME elements, with the Mexican government, or

with other governments and. intelligence services... It Is

assumed that normal coordination with varlous elements within.» -—

-KUBARK. Headquarters will take place.

7. Gosts. .
a@. General, It Is requested that this project be
guthor zee is the_amount of $9,000 per annum effective :
-July Be encenenne en eed eae cutee ee cette ee

     

 

 

b. Breakdown of Costs (per annum),

(1) LIHUFF/? salary $3,600.00
(2) Operational Expenses - 3,000.00
(3) Entertainment and Travel 2,400.00

 

Total per annum $9,000.00
_No non-KUBARK funds will be Involved in this activity. |

 

 

 
74-00000

 

“Lh. Identification

CP i |
& hel . : :

‘PROJECT OUTLINE

|
abo, no ' se }
‘Mexico City, Mexico. Support for singleton contract agent
operating into right-wing political milieu in Mexico for ‘
intelligence purposes with some covert action by-product.

2. Objectives

a. Objective The objective of this project is to provide
support for a U.S. contract agent who has access to a wide variety
of right-wing political elements and organizations in Mexico.

b. Conduct of Project The contract agent, LIHUFF/1, was born
in Mexico and has had a long history of business experience in
Latin America, as well as, over the past fifteen years,, in Mexico.
At_the present time, he is

 

 

 

 

| which givés hin a grea eal of mobility

 

in both American and Mexican business circles. Generally, it is
from the Mexican business community that the financing and support
for right-wing political movements, organizations, and institutions

“eminate. Given the general trend of recent Mexican regimes, as

 

“ well as the. present one, toward more governmental regulation and

manipulation of the economic life of the country, the Mexican
businessmen continue to support right-wing political movements or
ostensibly nonprofit civic, research, and other types of organiza-
tions used. by them as front instrumentalities for expounding

their philosephy and taking action in the politico-economic fields.
LIHUFF/1 has natural access through his present position and past
extensive experience in the business community here. Over the
years, as a matter of fact, hs numerous asseciations with these

 

elements have earned him their trust_and respect. In addition, (fo. : a
LIBUFF /2) |:

the past four years he has funded
organization, consisting primarily

 

 

a magazine on

 

 

 

politico-economic affairs), and]

 

 

 

]a student organization). Also, he.

 

has bandled LICHANT/1 who has a history of, and numerous associa-
tions in, the Mexican right-wing political arena. These and many

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

other contacts of this type will provide the basis for his reports | i
on this particular segment of the political spectrum in Mexico. a t
é

ce. Targets Right-wing political elements and organizations ‘Zi

in Mexico. This would include not only k
and but and numerous |

 

 

 

others Of political Significance on the Mexican scene. In connection

with LICHANT/1's present

 

Ni

 

 

—-

 

 

 

nn ta a

 

cmtentanal StS that

Bi
+

 

 

   

 
 

 

10d-40216-10038

fo. an

 

| ery

RO F

 

|
|

 

 

   

i Pusats

 

vy
a
.
Ps . a

CRYPTONYM |_

STATION _ Mexico City

r
it gs
at ai Sane:

fia.

 

REP P-SssaacAlGH.

CAS “sy
SEENEH Ye ~

"PROJECT OUTLINE ©

FIELO CASE OFFICE

“CHIEF OF STAT 10,

 

 

 

“SIDE OF ATT 76 Mos tag) DEX S3

  

  

  
  

Willard C. t 1s

andes

Willard C, CURTIS

ened marble. alt

 

   

 

Ss adae ZA
74-0000

 

-~ a

- 7 oh areas lp : r
kp Ep ed yl i : .
whofe Ga : moon

“a. position, it should be possible to obtain. information on

_. the Ministry of Education and other aspects of the Mexican

** education system which, according to the last word received
* from Headquarters, is somewhaz of a priority requirement.

    

. . d. BMD, This project is responsive to Priority A3d
and f of the Related Mission Directive for Station Mexico
City (approved October 1963). This priority reads in part:

“obtal vernmen

BP OF other powerful political groups such as
i ' _ > thé . and through continued development and
bee inf ~leve Jcontacts." As an

ancillary measure, the project cou contribute to MHSPAWN
tebe objectives of the RMD under certain circumstances where use
Hoe “of right-wing platforms ana urganizations is merited.

: , ‘4. Background.

: a a. Developments Leading 1.9 to Project. in

(1) Mexico, politically, is a country in which, |
: increasingly, a centrist political concensus is developing
nd - based on the impact of education and economic development. a
Te ~ On either side though of this growing central political :
spectrum are extreme ‘left and extreme right wings which are
'. quite active and quite vocal and which have an influence in
“the form of individuals, organizations, and movements greatly
. out of proportion to their numbers. Political disturbances
and efforts to induce jack of stability eminate in the main i=
from these two extreme wings. As the centrist force grows .
slowly, it is possible and probable. that these two wings will
intensify their efforts and become more and more radical.
The Station has intelligence coverage of the extreme left-~
wing, but has neglected the equally. important extreme ‘'right-
wing when, in the final analysis, any threat to Mexican
political stability by fomenting unrest and incidents does,
_and will continue to, eminate from the right-wing as well as
the left-wing. Assumin g that, as indicated in the present
RMD, the long range national policy objectives of the U.S.
toward Mexico are to encourage a stable democratic government
and political environment, then coverage of the right-wing
is required if for no other reason than meeting normal Station
responsibilities for political reporting, HBFINCH contacts
inthis area have been, and probably will continue to be,
virtually nil. In fact, at present in this area HBF INCH
contacts are non-existent.

 

 

 

 

 

   

   
 
  
     
  

ele ialwe |

 

vets Stee. .

 

(2) LUIHUFF/1 was first picked up as a contact by
in 1950 after having been a contract

agent for for some three years (while
engaged in business in Panama}. He has been in a continuing. -

 

 

 

 

 

 

af
weak

   

 

    

 
 

:
i

 

 

 

 

  

relationship of one degree or another with. this, ‘Station
ever since then. This relationship developed from "contact"

_ into formal contract status in November 1962, LHHUFF/1 has
: handled Station con¢tacts and activitics with LIHUFF /2

_ as well as LICHANT/} from 1962 to date. In
* (gddition; he has done a good deal of reporting on right-wing
activities from other sources and other contacts of his.
‘Subsidy, of the LIHUFF activity. for MHSPAWN purposes

will be terminated effective

"307 June 1965. Use of LICHANT/? will be continued in an
intelligence reporting capacity and,in a limited way, for
covert action efforts.

b. Prior Negotiations. There have been no prior
negotiations with the Mexican Government, intelligence or
security services, or ODYOKE elements on this project.
LIHUFF/1 has been used in the past, prior to his contract
with KUBARK, as a source by ODIBEX and ODMARK,

c. .Relationship to Other Projects. This project
“has no relationship to any other Station project. :

d. Utilization of of Same_Op Operational Assets, .
_ LIHUFF/1 has not beenutilized:on any other project, past. or
present, except to the extent|he was involved with the LUHUFF

activity indicated-in subparagraph 3a(2) above.

4, Qperational Assets. -.
- a. Personnel.

(1) LIHUFF/1 (OA granted on 10 October 1962
“with no number forwarded to field) -- Subject was born in
Mexico, is fluent in Spanish, and is about 49 years old.
Since World War If, he has been in private business in Latin
America, first in Panama and then in Mexico from 1950 on.
During World War 11, he was in Army intelligence in China and,
therefore, had an understanding of covert operations prior to
his KUBARK experience. While in Panama, he was employed by

 

there for several years ® to organize a net

aTFéCteET BGainst a target of high priority interest". This
association was terminated by reason of his move to Mexico

 

 

 

f iness reasons. Although he was in contact with this
virtually_from his time of arrival in Mexico, he was
not picked up as until November 1962. His

 

 

 

cover for his past and proposéd Sttivities has been natural:
that of a businessman with a conservative political out look
and interested in the economic and political posture of- the

- ay . _ :

 

   

 
