SECRET

release of “Washington” Field Office.
We have tried to explain there is no way to identify which aliases Morales might have used in which
operations and no way to identify which operations or officers would be subject to exposure if the
Morales aliases and addresses are released.

Any advice or additional justification verbiage weicome.

ce: Denny R.
- Hess-Y- ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sent on 11 April 1998 at 12:08:20

SECRET
104-10331-10150

 

 

“SECRET

i CL REASON: Section 1.5 ©

DECL ON: X17
DRV FRM: HUM 4-82

NOTE FOR: Fredrick C. Wickham

. William H. McNair

FROM:

OFFICE: {

DATE: 04/11/98 12:08:20

’ SUBJECT: Morales and Aliases and Accommodation Addresses

We (HCS and DA/OIM/JFK Team) have been discussing the subject of aliases, accommodation
addresses, alias documentation, and pocket litter in general and in particular concerning David
Morales with the ARRB staff (Jeremy Gunn, Michelle Combs, and Bob Skwirot) over several
meetings with a various mix of attendees.

| believe Gunn will accept alias documentation and information thereto to be redacted when release
could compromise agreements between the Agency and other governments, be they state {i.e.,
driver licenses) or federal (i.e., Social Security [but complicated here because of the June 1975

. Report to the President by the Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States, the so-called

j Rockefeller Commission, which referred to the SSA's knowledge of the CIA's "manufacturing its
cards.”"] and Federal Aviation Agency). "Pocket litter" will be released, i.e., National Rifle
Association card, Rotary Club card, insurance cards, and so forth.) But Gunn wants Morales's
aliases, especially for those that might apparently only have been used in the 1960s timeframe.

We have tried to “clarify” the need to protect aliases, even though more than 35 years old, and in
the case of Morales, for a deceased employee (whom the ARRB has released). Attached you will

find an example of one of our “clarification memos” 40610545.D
More specifics about the Morales and his aliases, and so forth, follows:

@ In some 47 documents currently being discussed, there are 27 in the 1960-66 timeframe and
20 in the 1971-75. ;

@ in some of the documents, the same alias was used in both timeframes as was the
accommodation addresses, some with apparently non-connected “co-addresses."

e@ Of the re-checked aliases, both are still in the records as “active” although apparently in

. Morales's file, there is a notation of at least one “possibly compromised."

@ in at least one of the 1975 documents, one or more probably non-connected “co-addressees”
are listed at the same PO boxes. .

@ Because of earlier releases of “driver's license" or “permit,” when we fully redacted names and
addresses, we have a problem now releasing the alias used exclusively in the 1960s along even
the state part of the address, let alone the street portion less the specific house number because
it would expose the state government collusion (again previously the phrase “through your
established contact) or the perception thereof. Some of these are complicated by the previous

SECRET
