(fotos)

ye}

 

 

 

 

ete ee Et le bee te

~~ INTERNAL USE ORLY ‘

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel . Page 5
Thursday - 9 February 1978

Aseo_

16, (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Called Peter Stockton, House

 

|
|

interstate and Foreign Commerce Subcommittee ‘or mnerey and Power staff, and

made tentative arrangements for him to meet wi » DDO,

_ at 9:00 or 9:30 a.m. on Monday, 13 February, to review CIA documents on

NUMEC which had been provided to the now defunct Joint Committee on
Atomic Energy.

17. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Leslie Wizelman, Dan Hardway
and John Hornbeck, House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, visited
C&R Staff to review Agency material,

18, (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Mike Epstein, Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence staff, called to indicate that the House Select
Committee on Assassinations, cautious of House Rule XI, has agreed that
all notes taken as a result of their review of Senate Select Committee on- -
Intelligence transcripts on ex- Agency employees, will remain in Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence custody.

19. (Unclassified - MMP) LIAISON Received a couple of calls
from Dorothy Fosdick, from the office of Senator Henry M,
Jackson (D., Wash. ), regarding the package of materials that Jim
Lilley, NIO/China, had prepared for her. The problem was eventually
straightened out and she received the materials by noon.

20. (Internal Use Only - MMP) BRIEFING Barry Schochet, on

' the staff of Senator Richard Stone (D., Fla.), called to add that the

Senator would want to have a list of Cuban activities within the Western
Hemisphere, preferably something that he could use on the Senate floor.

This would be in addition to any classified information which we might

have on Cuban activities in the Hemisphere. I told him that we would do
whatever we could and relayed the requirement on to Bob Hepworth, NFAC/CSS,
who said that there was precious little by way of useful overt information on
Cuban activities in the Hemisphere.

21. (Internal Use Only - MMP) BRIEFING Accompanied
Representative Charles Rose (D., N. Car.) and Dick Giza, from the
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to meetings with
DDS&T and others, (See Memorandum for the Record. )

. 2/338
INTERNAL USE ONLY 135%
