74-00000

oe @ >. Top secrer = @

a

OATH OF SECRECY

I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will never divulge,
publish or reveal by word, conduct or by any other means any
classified information concerning the intelligence sources and
methods protected in OO eee TALENT/KEYHOLE or
COMINT Channel, exceptin thé periormance of my official
duties. In this regard I assume the responsibility of deter-
mining that any individual to whom I disclose such matters
has been authorized to receive it. I recognize that this
information is protected by law and that penalties for
violations of this oath are covered under U.S. Code Title
18, Sections 792 through 798.

 

Signature

Clare Boothe Luce

Member of PFIAB

Position
y Io fup fo
. sfc £ Krehowkeose. . / Lz Biot 1/993
\ Witness Date

Handle via

0

@ 5) enan) Talent-Keyhbole-Comint
2| py! TOP SECRET Channels Jointly

 
 

 

 

(04-10420-10683 gs

~ ".. °° @ > vopsecrer © 7

SECURITY INDOCTRINATION
AND
SECRECY OATH

I have been informed officially that the United States
Government is engaged in major technical programs to
collect intelligence. These programs are concerned with
overhead reconnaissance of denied areas using aircraft and
space vehicles and with the collection of intelligence based
on interception and decoding of foreign ciphers.

These programs are of vital importance to the
national security, and any disclosures of these activities will
endanger the intelligence sources. Official confirmation of
such activities, under other than very carefully controlled
circumstances, is precluded by present national policy,
despite any level of public speculation.

The Director of Central Intelligence, charged by
statute with the protection of intelligence sources and methods,
has prescribed security policies of compartmented controls
called:

for protection of research,
develd erations of overhead
reconnaissance equipment.

 

TALENT/KEYHOLE, for protection
of photographic product, identified by the
coteword{ | find for the protection of
intelligen r electrical signals collected
by satellites, identified by the codeword |
Communications Intelligence (COMINT),

for the protection of intelligence obtained by
interception and decoding of foreign ciphers,

ide e codewo ray |
an oo 3|

a

 

 

 

Handle via

“ o|
(6) emanyl alent-Keyhole-Comint
7 p f CSN NGRADING, RRP TOP SECRET

Channels Jointly

 
