13-00000

     
 

 

   

 

‘another figure in the case" a Ls also quoted aS

the trip in his own cary a Lincoln,

   

mada

   

  
 

  

Raymond Gy Rocca
"  G/CURBA at

 

 

 
13-00000

 

  
 
    
   
  

 

 

7 "Since my attorneys are crying and pressing n mea pecausa
of not being paid for my various legal wrecking movea on his
jolly big fraud, Iam going to Instruct them to send you chapa
framediately an itemizod bill, 3£, and I do mean tf, Garrison
js correct, Lam golng to Instruct the same attorneys to aus
the h-~- out of your bad guys [tn the accounting department for /
wolching on your debts, Instead of a ng comment 8.0. P. reply,
. how about ¢ a public pachay, [sy os

   

%

 

1 “Op, Ss. Right now ot don't think sending hima ‘to Viet Nara
- da a good idea in view of national interest anymore. Perhapa.
| Rothe he could reopen the case on Cagvars assauaination, He.

‘bellaves Brutus and Casstus wore framed, Lika In his words,

“beyond a shadow of a doubt, absolutely, ue Troly yourae -

. Gordon H Nevels :

     
 

      
 
 

    

  
 

 
   
 

oF o: “The > parital sentence yeading " 3 ek am going to instruct
- the same. atiurmeys te auc ths h-+- out of your had guys In the: Accounting

i department for welching on your debts", quoted out of context,’ would |
reinforce NUVEL‘'s falae claim to affillation with CIA,. It will be intere
ees ta’ note whether he releagea this telegram to the preas

         
  

 

ae Ie) has ‘been noted that NOVEL probably served as‘an FRY informant.”
” fax an’ unknown period before he left New Orleans In mid-March 1967,
.. FBI report DBB 73269, New. Orleang office, 2] February 1967, fg >
2 ascribed to 4 "confidential source who in the past furnished inaufficden
"information to determine. pier Aa This source describes the group
o. that carried out thé theft from the Houma bunker as consisting of his.’

“*. own ex-wife (but not himself); bia partner {unidentified}, Sergio: |
ARGAGHA Smith, Dayid FERRIZ, two ex-marines, and another man,
also unidentified. He also said that one of the cara used for the trip to .
Hiduma was his own 1956 Lincoln Suprems. This report contains no men= leo
fon of CIA. The New Orleans States - Item of 25 Aprit 1967 quotes * o
NOVEL as saying that CIA ordered him to join the group, which he. -
identified as consisting of ARCAGHA, FERRIE,. seyaxral Cubans, and

. : 2 . af : . res welt apt

     
 
 

    
 
    
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
 

Shh Ee,

 
 

  
    
   
 
   

Gorald MUNDY @ Gary EDWARDS, and any aosoclation betiveon
: them, as well'as any information about whether Station WKDA t
re Neahyithe iy affiliated or otharwisg aasoctated with NBC g -
. ae

 

fe eae

17. it: the sarmisa that NBG tp butlalng up NOVEL ar a hatter
day Duvid who is to slay the Jolly green giant is corract, then a CLA ~
exposure of NOV@L's claims of Agency affillation as false might be
damoging to vur. own Interests, On the other hand, the likeMhoog ..-
that an NBC anti-Garrison program is still weeka away from pragen+ _
tation is dlsturbing,,.A recent Harrls-survey (\ Wauhington Post Post, 29 :. .
May 1967) shows. that. 66% of the peysons queried now belisve th that the -

zosassination was.not the:work of one man but was rather partofm ° -
_ broader plot:or conspiracy. :-The Garrison probs fs termed a major
eontributar. to: the growing: public doubt; | ‘GABRISON's Vvenamous ~ .~
attack on CLA! during his ABG interview of 28 May 1967 .was preceded,
: by a “barrage of sarller. chargea and will predictably ba followed bye

me FG st

 

      
   
    
 

  
 
       

  
     
 
 

  

; f L Be There may be a. ‘shadow of Jastiflcation for NOVEL's claim
. of sysociation with CIA. fehas asserted inat he kaew Seryio ARGAGHA ‘
Smith and that ARCAGHA was ons of the participants In fhe pickws at --

/ the Houm@ bunker, Our: ‘recorda. show, that CIA never recruited or paid

      
 

orfed fo FRD headquartera in Miaral- saya
“the ¥ RD was created with CIA agsistance, guidance, and financfal :
support in May 1960.. Its leader waa Dr, Jose MIRO Cardone, He or ;
"his axsistants: may have passed funds te ARCAGHA

     

; “Central Intelligence Agency McLean Vir .
om) "Attn UNCLE Hdqrsa Good Guys Diy. Regarding Garsigon

* conspiracy case; coda refarence JACKASS, Dear Richard... :
Touay according ‘to the Jolly green giant (Mr. Garrison) You
are > Paytins my hegal foes Ay Loutelana and Ohio,"

 

 

SAneeree TS aries tat

 

 
 
  

   
 
 

  

  
  
  
    

f. NOVeLta New Orleans ‘attorney, Steve PLOTHIN, 2
‘eaid ha "seryed as an interrnediary between the ClA and
anti-Gastro Cubans in New Orleang and Miami befozs the .
“April, 1961, Bay of Plgs invasion,. Plotkin mainteined,
"though, that Novel had ‘little oy nothing to do with the Bay
- of Pigs invasion and certainly had absolutely nothing to do
with the ‘asaassination of Prcolvent Bennedy,"" {The
an Washington . Post, 26 May 19 ty . Lote

   

ne . On 1 M ¥ 1987 NOVEL 2 again telephoned the FBI's office in!
_ New Orleans.> Ha said that in the near future GARRISCN would accuse
. tho FBI of possessing originals of Hya lettara: one from Clay SHAW
to David Fi RRIE, one’ from Lee Harvey OSWALD to SHAW, one from
—. FERRIE to Jack RUBY,’ one from RUBY te OS WALD, and ons from .
“. Sénater and formar Attorney General Robert Kennedy. to ¥ERRIE.. He *
_7 added that GARRISON has.a typewriter which FERRI, owned in: 1943 and:
valsQhas twa’ typewriters: personal and business, belonging to SHAW, : .
He- said that GARRISON's chief lnveatigator, Willlam GURVICH,’ haa @
a close relativa,: ‘ving in Russia, who | was instrumental in designing =
‘the MIG. . He remarked inai GARRISON pious ts cubpeers an attorney,
_ inu MARTIN, allegedly assoclated with CIA, He sald that-Layton™" -
' Patrick MARTENS was the "othay" marine probably involved in the + ”
“Feuma bunker burglary. .{FBI memorandum DBB 80563, 9 May 1967.}.
‘Mr. Arthur Dooley of CI/R&A knew a Walter SHERIDAN (see.
Heved: identical: with ths. Walter. SHERIDAN, of this. report ”

   

   
 
 
 
    
 
    
 

  

“42, “on or: bout i May \967 GARRISON accused two o lewyore, i.
~ ¢ one ‘pf thony PLOTHIN,- of receiving CiA moneys We know that .
‘Mr,’ Plotkin haa been raceiving money, if only through an intermediary,
frorn the CLA," Both lawyers denled tha charge. (New Orleana, AP,
: “11 May 1967.) GARRISON later broadened this charge to Include all...
yo defense attorneys. ‘Every lawyer Involved In thia case, without ex-.. -
o, - Geption, involyed in the attempts to derail the investigation, has been 97.
; : connected by us with the Gentrat * Intelligence Agency, Garrison 6 said. on

   

 

 

 

  
  
 

 
13-00000

 

 

   
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

; ; 33,. On 22 May 1967 NOVEL toluphoned an untdentified peveon | .
~f {in New Grieans and sald that at 0200 hours on 21 May he anda {rbend of
ni eleven yoaras, Gary EDWARDS, were sitting ina radio station truck in ~
! - Nashville, Tennessee, Buileta were fired at the truck, Nelther man

- was struck by a bullet, but both were cut by flying glass.. The... |
. Nashville police found the glassy in the left doox of the truck shattered

* and four or five indentations made by bulleta on the right aide of the |
truck's paneling. | They said that the iret report to them was mada -

‘by Charlea F. WALKER, presiden t of radio station WKDA, who sald °

., that NOV EL hed been, wounded by a oniper_and that he had come to © =

aa Nashville at the. yequest of WRDA and had agreed to disclose infoxma+ .

- thon that "would blow the New Orleans {nyeastigation, wide open." Ap

i Nashville police, detective: said five shota. wera fired at the truck and

: “that. traces, ‘apparently of blood, wera found, ‘Howayer, Nashville .

“authorities noted. that Mr.. WALKER firat telephoned them thirteen ;

-hourg after the’ Alleged incident, By thon NOVEL and EDWARDS. were

. allegedly in Bowling Green,” “Kentucky. -Efforts made in Kentucky fo -
¥arlfy NOVEL's ‘claim that hig injuries had been treated at a hospital:

; ‘were unsuccessful; WALKER said that’ “Juat before the shooting NOVEL

/ was onthe verge of retus: ning ts Columbus .. Bo sald thet NOVEL | :

SDWARDS left. Nashville immediately aftex the shooting and that:

hy tse ¢ was proceeding te Washington, EDWARDS' real name,

 

   
  
   
 
  

 

      
    
  

    

NOVEL toa wall ‘placed and walk infornied asset, t, AMOT/2,. without
-dévulging NOVE:L's name or making any statement about him ood IMWAV ES
1427.27 May 1967, reported that AMOT/2 did not recognize the photo

' and could net identify the person whose Hkenaas he saw, The. Purpose

 
   
   
      
 

 

a oe
ca’

tles undey another pamsy we,
- 4 tees a
- : 16. tt i ig 3 requested that the Office of the Avalatant to ‘the Director
advise CURE: A whether it hag e °y information about Walter SHE SRIDAN,

   

  
 
   
 

    
  
 
 
  

   

oe ors

  

A... NOVEL. ‘yemalns myutertousy Although the ¢ press hag
devoted much space to-him, few facta haye emerged, He has been |

sserlbed as.a 29 yeas old formor* owner of a bar in the French-- .
Poe quarter of New Gyloana and ag an, export in electronica, (New soi! 0°
a O leans States ~ Item, 25 April 1967,) Aa F Bt }report (ODE -~ "aa0]

i 2% Ape }eil]texn ma hima a formes electron! cg ealgaman, ;

: ety Net he. left New “Outeans for Golumbus, Onto, in mid-Maxch :
Beale: . It is Known, however. ‘that he ig at Apel on a $10,000 bond,

     
     
      
    
  

 
    
 

ae during the. weekend. of.25-26 March NOYEL wag ln the t/achington a area
irginta, a site which might have been. chosen

  

aE
“tactgally it was ‘McLean, Vv

   

       

   
  

eninatlon bors sriyate- Sotectles valaed: «

Te Ee ng te em eee

polvyr wa aoh.exar
Ag the Office of eres reported onl May,

    

 
  
  

he was given:
Nes. k URRs (Comment:

     

 
  
 

. The ‘fet that NOVEL. was ‘a. ‘salosraan. of f electronics gear ‘suggests: the *
otherwise nnnupported hypothiesis that he my heave had an earlier. rela:

  
 
  

  

 

(tte a9_§9) that NOVEL, had ‘made a long distance call to that office
from an unknown place.” Among his remarks wag the comment that he.
had "not furnished GARRISON with any information about ‘double check
of Miaml, which he inferred wag a fringe Cuban opsration In the Miaral £ as
axea but did not further identify." {Gormment: Opera’ tion Double Chek °° «/.
appears on pp. 95, 76. 82,. 84, 88, 89, 146, and 246 of The Invisible + :

  
    

 

 

 
104-10056-10403)

 

 

 

 

      
  

M EMOR ,ANDUM

   

. with Gta, i) ‘thorough Vecorda ‘check has shown, no. such, néfilietion: It.
" peems plausible that the NBG is supporting and financing Nove L in,§ an
order to win = large audience for a later expose of GARRISON . aad ae

 
   
 
  

    

 

‘ VEL and hig lawyers reportedly have.
elalined that he was associated with CLA, but have then denied such an
. sOne lawyer later solterated the claim os

 
   
   

  

o 2.3, The files of the following Agency “components ‘have been
a . checked for any-record of Gordor Dwane NOVEL, including alterna tive
7 splines 7 aH ghecks were negative ats held ng information about -"-

    
   
 
 
 
  
 

  
 
  

ly pip,
; Cl/oa, “
Office af Security, an
- WH/Cuban Operations Group, |
‘Domestic Contact Serylce.

Interagency Source Register,

Domestic Operations Division,

Archives, ot

0 REET

   

    
 
 
 
      
 

 

 

 
 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

:
: :

‘ so a8
3 an -
f- .

i

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
    

dase ribes Double Chek aaa cover cand £ vadlng raechantsm far roc: rutting
and paying American flyera who participated at the. Bay of Pigs, The.
General Counsel hag infoxrrned GL/E&RA that in fact Doubdla, Ghok waa of 0
created after the deatha of the flyora for tha solo purpose of making, | : :
- paymenta to thety ¥ widows, } : . So, :

. BL BI roernoxandurn ‘DBB 18600, 25 Mar ck "1987, vepor tea ; :
/ another long distance call by NOVEL to the New Orlcans office, NOVEL ,
f

 

* said that Walter SHERIDAN, who ls a Washington NSC news reporter, 2 iB
£ . A ceemmedinetiteiaiabtiad EE Ty .
Wo had the number of the telephone at which NOVEL could ba reached. Ha 4
i. alse sald that when he was given the polygraph test in Virginla,  _..- ue
“: SHERIDAN waa present, He added that ha had given SHERIDAN informa -
tlon about polygraph tests run by GARRISON? staff ft

 
  

 

 

     

SY a Qe Am B May 1967 mem Savin fr athe Aaséciats General

ae Counsel states that-he was glyen information ebout the GARRISGN. in-,

a “: vestigation by a Washington lawyer named Jack Miller, that Walter “* .-:
oe . SHERIDAN waa the.source, of Miller! 8 information, that NBC has dene 7

 

     
  

                
    
 

   
 

os Se Seren ‘new! , 7 mm hy mm ee umes eatad te mpaeyl GARRISON,
? -

a ovescks g show ig cnyected

   

 
 
   

   

. . Re & tats . “ 7 3 . ae . i
10, In addition to hia ‘referenca to Double ‘Chek, NOVEL and hia. >
awyerg bave madg dlyect but contradictory © otatomente. about CIA,

     
   
    
 

 

expose gome , CIA operations.

ny think Garrison wt
, Times - Picayune, 19 April:

   
     
 
   
   
  

LB. ‘NGVEL xeportedly stated to a reprasentative of ace:
“well known news media "that he was employed by the Contral .
Be Intelligence Agoncy (CLA} and that the burglary of the munitions ;
Wome 2s punkex at Houma, Loulsiana, was not an actual burglary," Ho
a 7 contended that CIA had made arrangements with the SCHLUMBERGER
Se To Welk Drilling Corporation’ ta ksep- -ammunition, bomh. casings, ~ .
oo und other material in that-bunker, Hg "indicated that he (NOVEL) »
‘and [Sergia/ Arcacha Smith are still employed by the CLA
NOVEL and others took bomb casings and othar itema from fhe

‘bunker about three months aftzr the Bay ¢ of Pigo, (Source: FRI"
memorandum, New Orleans gifice, 20 April 1967 .} (Comment: 7
Garefel ghecking hag ahown t the t t CLA did pot Raye & contract, with :

    
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

te ee
13-00000 -.

 

  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
    
    

 

SCHLUMBERGER, as NOVEL has alleged, and did not have -*.
any munitions or similar materials stored with SOHO MB ERGER
or at : the Houma Atr “Rase.| ; ;

  

“Phe above wag matorlala plekup"" was mado by |

: NOY EL. and others "at the dlrectlon of his CIA contact,!! . .

Part of NOVEL's Job for CIA "was to operate the ¢ Evergreen '°.-°
Advertistnyg. Agency_as a front for CIA communications”, Po

i NOVEL "prepared special radio commercially for uso inthe _

United States and Canada., t9 alert agents to the date of the .

Bay of Pigs invasion," Among codg words used by NOVEL.

oe, ; were "Star Christmag Treea” “and "Hollday Treeg", His -

oa fo _ “agency placed $72,000 woxth of radio tima in 1960.. (AP

Lye ho. 2 New Orleans, 45 April 1967.) (Gomment: Ag was ‘previously~

on Tong xeportud, there Ls no record of the "Eyergreen. Advertising.

Agency". “WH/COG queried 4 knowladgeablg staff employes

now ~ ~Iwho replied | in :

3473,°12 May: 1967, that NOVEL 'y allegations are not trne}-

that he had never heard of NOVEL, his agency, ox the code’,

drds; and that although "sone mngantigiaad. cods.plirasas...

were us sed on JMHOPE: for psych reasons only" » they were |

: Ot sent out over U.S, comme scial ‘stations, The cable added

that the Cuban Free Committoe did contract time for routine.

exile broadcaste ‘eS a New Ozleans 1 tation, Et. ta eae how

 

  
   
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
            
    
   
   
 

that he would neither Gontlrm nor deny NOYEL's slaime’ of:
cA ymployment, 7 Hie lawyer in Columbus, Jorry “WEINER
said, "It's utterly ridiculous,” NOVEL is not new and never,.
haa been: ‘GIA agents" {New Orleans, States - Item, 25 prih.
1967. a : : fee 2

    
     
       

 

os - 6. On 25 April 1967 NOYEL, himns alf ead in Columbus,
: "Tha statements that I worked for the Ch 3 pre abeolutely ine .
‘correct, : 4 a Ware 26 April et de. ~

 

    
 

 

>.
cas
te
£.

   
