74-0000

   

—e ~ secret =

5. Referring to the just-announced capture of 17 raiders
at Norman Cay, Artime indicated’ that he was not particularly
exercised over them as individuals, but hoped the U.S. would
not be tricked into the position of buing “what Castro
described as a protector of mussia and Cuba against exile |
raiders." Of the exiles restricted to the Jade County area,
our only mutual acquaintance was Pedro Diaz Lanz whom we —
agreed had for some time been so uncontrollable as to raise
serious doubts as to his mental stability. For his part, :
Artime said, he hoped that.he would not be served with a _
restriction notice since, if he was, he would depart the 3

“U.S. permanently with an attendant blast of publicity. ‘*

6. I asked about Jose Perez San Roman and leamed from t
Artime that Pepe had suffered a mental breakdown, that the : :
Robert Kennedvs had rented a home for Pene. his wife and two

_ Children in the McLean area and that Artime had been with i
them during the day when Mrs. Kennedy had come to the San Roman
home and seen Artime, Artime learned that the San Roman i
children were driven te and from school by he Kennedys. (It : i
turns out “hat the Kennedy children, my three children, and . aa
Pepe's two all attend tne same parochial school on MacArthur : \
Blvd., so it is not unlikely that Pepe's children will seek ;
mine 5 as the only cther Spanish-speaking children in the pot 4
& Ole . . . i

7. When I asked Artime what iiad brought about San Roman's H

' breakdown em he indicated that it was the result of conflicts i

arising from marital unhappiness and pressures on him by the U.S. : H
Govt. to persuade the Brigade to enlist in the U.S. Army. San . it

t

 

 

Roman apparently feels in retrospect that he should kave . :

evacuated the Brigade from the beachhead rather than sacrificing

it. Artime said that San Roman was somewhat resentful over. oan
the fact that his psychiatric bill was being paid by Miro Cardona, :
Yegarding it a way of maxing him indebted to Miro. (In the ; .
context, I judged that Pepe viewed Miro as a symbol of the CRC.)

vhs 8. Artime also said that he had seen Ydigoras Fuentes and

' Reberto Alejos in Guatemala and he suggested that Peralta's
coup had been amicably arranged with Ydigoras. I inferred po |
that Artime had also seen Peralta on his just-completed trip. : _f :

9. -Manolin Hernandez asked me about a certain "Col... Earl

(heconnane who, he said, was living or had lived at the. Sheraton-

Park Hotel and who was moving through the Cuban exile community
locking for dark-skinned Cubans to be used in Haiti against

\ ceremmne in om ero gnantmntncntirnin Cane ee ates nce rns nt MN AO ee Pe ie ER Ae eee eee eermeN ET |

   

vay
eos

{ioe fo1e2014). re

we a SECRET 7 dnl 1-20"

2 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Manuel Artime
Manolin Hernandez ~ 1 April 1963

felicitate my wife on the occasion of her birthday, 1, of
course, invited him to come to my home and he arrived in due
course with Manolin Hemendez, his sne-tine «sepucy in the MRR,

Television Program on the morning of vil from New York City -
‘the "Today" show, I believe - and after @ bad seen the Attorney
- General he was leaving for New York to prepare for the program.

and integrity of the bags custodians,

4. After his New York Television appearance, Artime is
considering going to Spain to talk with Franco, His apparent
contact with the Spanish Government is via the one-time Spanish

e* in Havana (whose name escaped me ime said,
Was at one time of great assistance to

4
t
ad
*t
‘4
¥

    

 
74-00000

 

Duvalier. <ccording to Hernandez, Brennan asserts that his
activity is backed by the White House, his link being via so
Ambassador David Bruce, Brennan's cone-on apparently, is ( ’
to teli former Brigade members that if they help overthrow Y
Duvalier, Haiti will be at their disposal for whatever. {

mre oe
ah
+ tema § caatt gie joe

10. In answer to their question, I said that I had not ‘
known Brennan in OSS in his self-described role, although
it was entirely possible that Brennan, like many other : | “
officers, had actually served in CSS in one way or another, fo
And I pointed out that Dave Bruce had been Chief of our |
Operations in ETO. : : t

“dd Hernandez commented that since the first of the year

he had been queried by both Jose Miro Cardona and Jose Ignacio
Rasco (MOC) as to whether I ("Eduardo") was still in the U.S.

and had denied any knowledge of my whereabouts, .

eet

12, By this time it was 2 o'clock in the morning, the
three of us had downed 2 fifth of Seatch and we regroured in
the kitchen where I Prepared breakfast for all. Before leaving,
. Gane said he would call me after he had seen the Attorney

eral.

 

Distribution: ;
a = C/SAS
: , rae C/wi

eminem nem ntenee ectey ae

sam tye cine

   

7 ie cetacean REC reat! aad RRR it itt ee CO hel a niet nibesthtne Det

ee ee

 
