 

ee
18. Doesn't

are,
Skgun

q.
How he registeied and deregistered;
Age;
Meuberahip dues;
Komsomol Congress.
know about especial stamps on MVD pasees under

BERIYA and KRUGLOV. Couldn't have entered buildiags.
2. Boesn’t know date or even year when EGE crganized.
21. Education:

b.
ee

The trip to Baku;

Three year course of study in Navel Prepara~
tory School;

Extensions - Correspondence courses at Mining
Institute;

Doesa't know what subjects taught in Sth,
9th, or loth grades.

oo we eect etl a

 
74-0000

5.
List of Points Reviewed with Subject on 6 August:

2. Registration in Moscow tpon arrival from the Baltic

{
1. ABIDIAN and other operations (simply a reminder). |
on leave.

3. KOBULOV, VAKHRUSHEY, and the recommendation to the
VD.

4. Procedure of issuing visitor's passes to the HVD
buildings.

“SB. Wmescorted access to the 4th Entry to see NOBULOY.
@. Location of ROZHENKO's cffice. The Sth Entry.
7. Ankota
a. Doesn't know ite name;
® Falied out im 2 copies;
ce. Falled owt only the anketa and autobiography;
d. Willed out anketa at home;
@. Beemn'’t know the lichnyy listck po ucheta

 

 

kadrov;
2. Poslurhnoy Spisok; ‘

@. Seerecy agreenent ;
h. Size of the anketa.
8. How to rum a name check. Mixed up the varicus archives’
and was unable to describe correctly how to check a-
Beviet citizen or a foreigaer.

9. DBosan't know entry date into HYD. oe 4

“EOREL.

 

FS waren oa nc beso ins alg mea ftetprnce memmnemwam me me te nen :
; 5 AN tai! OD - en gsr

to

 
74-00000

do.

il.

22.

13.
14.

6.
Did not take am entrance medical exam.
Doesn't know his salary correctly,particularly when
they atopped paying for rank and when they restored
Yank pay.

Hixed up the two General SAVCRENKO's, and doesn't
know ebout one of them at all.

Gastronoa.
Service in the Baltic:
a. Sovetak;
b. Reilroad to Baltiysk;

c. Doesn’t know Chief of Intelligence, 4th
Baltic Pleet;

ad. Doesn't know commanding officer of his MRP; .
@. Bow saya he spent only 4 somths there;

£. Doesn't know elewentary geography:
i inmpeias kiy Kray instead of Kaliningrad
ase.

Doesn't know in what directorate he served; FCD or
SCD; doesn't know when or why they were redesignated.

Vife's relatives werg ia France. Logical, but doesa't
know why there wes no data om thea when ran nase
check.

Knows the basic structure of the MVD in 1953, but did
wot name almost half of the directorates and depart-
mente. Doesn't know the functions of the 4th and Sth

Spetsotdels, or how the spetsotdels used to be called.'

Doesn't know the deputy ministers under KRUGLOY.
Konsomol: ,

a low a secretary ia elected;

b. Regulations;

G. Wame of the Komsomol Secretary of the HYD;

ert eny
SEs" tt

 

 
74-00000

 

re

that he would be given normal living conditions eas socom -
as he started to cooperate by telling the real truth. (A
complete transcript of this part of the session is being
done for the record.)

2. Ag expected, Subject's only response to all this
was that he had told the @ruth--vith allowances for mis-
takes on minor points of detail owing to forgetfulness--
and that he would continue to tell nothing but. He said
that despite hia grievances cver his treatment he con-
tinued to be willing to serve American Intelligence im any
way he could, short of returning to the USSR, of course.
He complained that I denied and contradicted everything
Be said, great and small, and said that be could see by
wany remarks that I had made that I thought that he had
never served in the KGB ag a staff officer but had perhaps
been an agent for the KGB. This, he said, was completely
excluded, and I should know that it ia not possible for
the KGB to recruit the son of a minister as an agent. I
replied simpiy that 3 knew af several cases ehere sot only
children of ministers but even moro important people had
served im this capacity.

3. Another interesting remark that Subject made was
that be fully appreciated the fact that his knowledge was

rapidly getting dated. He mentioned that this applied Bot

only to his knowledge of the KGB, but also to what he

knew about prominent mombers of the Central Committee of
the CpSU. I said that he had not provided snything of
interest on this subject, and he replied that there had mot
been an opportunity, implying that there was much that he
had to offer in this field. It is planned to explore his
knowledge on this next week. .

4. Subject complained that we had not checked his
story sufficiently and pointed. out that thousands of boys
had studied in the same schools as he had and that we
should be able to get confirmation somewhere. Here he made
an interesting remark as follows: ‘Incidentally, when I
first came here I underatocd from something that Mr. Peter

ley said thet you have operational contact with
He was also im the Baku Naval Preparatory
"

 

 

 

one, 7
hawk

SAO RL mite eet ok A ee

 

 

 
 

40211-10064

 

SEGrET

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

©

® August 1965
SUBJECT: Report of Interrogation of 6 August 1965

1. Today's session was from 1000 to 1200 and from
1305 to 1410. As planned, ( started the session by sus-
marizing for Subject the results of the first six sessions,
listing for him approximately twenty points om which he had
failed badly. (Summary list attached.) At first Subject,
attempted to contest the points as I cited them, for exam-
ple, on the variations in the KOBULOV story, and on the
lecation of ROZHENKO's office, but when I gave him the
facts he did mot challenge them and he listened to most of
the litany in silence. I told Subject that the results of
these sessions had confirmed further the previous findings.
I asked him why he continued to cling to his legend, and
reminded him that he had turned doen the opportunity
effered to his last spring to change his mind while we
still could take:.steps to preserve his operational useful-~
megs. I said that this opportunity was now past, but that
X did not want to conceal from him the fact that he still -
had Enowledge and information which-could be useful to us.
However, there was a-time limit even to this. I reminded
him that he had been out of circulation for a long tine
and that seny things had happened in the world and especially |
. im the Soviet Union during this time; for example, KHRU-
BECHEV wes no longer in power (Subject's comment, as ex-
pected, was "Thank God!"). Otber changes had taken place. .
If Subject did not make up bis aind to tell the truth, his
490 days could easily turn into 4000, and he would not be
of imterest to anyone. I told Subject again, that he had
nothing to fear, no matter what he had done in the past,
that we would not prosecute him for any past crimes, no
matter how bad. If he were worried about reprisal from
Soviet security organs, I told him that we were just as
cepable of keeping his confession secret ag we were uf keep-
ing secret the fact that we knew he was a provocateur for
@ year and a half before his defection. I promised hin

 

TN ee machine so ake et et Te oe me cee ee

po
14-0000

  

5. Subject was questioned in sowe detail shout hia .
dutios as a SCD officer on the big public holidays. Sub- ob
ject's description was generally accurate, and even quite
good as long as he kept his answers general. When forced
to be more specific he made s number of mistakes about the
procedures involved, such 28 ingisting that instructions a)
for the holiday were isaued by the chief of the department
without the participation of a 9th Directorate officer,
about the preparation of the duty and guest lists for
passes, which lead me to conclude that he did not stand
@uty there as ea KGB officer. He was unable to remember #
gingle delegation that he had been assigned to watch, al-
though he maintained that he had pulled such duty every
year since 1957. However, on the basis of his othervige
very good femiliarity with Red Square and the procedures
of parades there, I would conclude that he has attended
pore. than one such event as a guest, or perhaps with bis

ather.

6. After the luncheon break, I started to question
Subject os his first marriage. As before, Subject was
wuneble ow unwilling to remember any of the data that would
enable us to pin this story down. He does not remember
exactly when he met Telegina, the date of Telegin's arrest,.
the date of the marriage, the location of the ZAGS office

’ where the marriage was registered, or even the year of
birth of nis wife (1928 or 1929). Subject siuply made no
effort to answer these questions, and for this reason the
questioning proceeded to Subject's first pasaport.

7. Asked where and when he received bis first internal
paseport, Subject said that he thought it was in Moscow in
early 1944 befoge leaving for Leningrad. Reminded that this
was a change from his previous story that he had gotten
bie first pagsport in Leningrad, Subject replied that he
hadm’t remembered it, and that in any case he also got a
paseport in Leningrad. Asked to describe the purpose of
the internal passport syetem;=Subject's answer would embar-
rasa any real SCD officer. He insists that all Soviet
elitizens over the age of 16, except those on active military
service and prisoners, have passports.

F & Asked to describe the surroundings of Ul Naerodnzya,
where be lived from 1956 to his departure, Subject's answer

 

SEGEET

 

é.
Lon

 
74-00000

4.
gas in general quite good. As before, he was unable to
name correctly the city rayon in which his regidence was
located.

®. Asked to describe his entry into the Naval Pre-
paratory School in Leningrad in 1944, Subject at first
gave a vague and unsatisfactory answer, and when pressed
for detaila he became irritated and said that his father
bee arranged it all po blatu. The sesgicn was ended on
this note. |

|
|
|
|

 

 
