- € C¢

GORDON DWANE NOVEL -

Me Qadrud-Din, Second Secretary, Embassy
of Pakistan, Washington, D. C.

Major General Chiang Wu-Wei, Military ;
Attache, Embassy of the Republic or China, —
Washington, D. C. eee

Novel said that all expressed considerable
interest in. both types of equipment and said sales to
their governments would probably be forthcoming.

Nova, additionally, advised that he sold one
of his antibugging checkmate units to Charles Costello,

whom he advised is connected with the Ace Vending Machine

Corporation, Trenton, New Jersey, and that the magnetic -
field loop of the device was installed in the ceiling of
Costello's private office in Trenton, New Jersey.

hts docuroat conteina neither
nor conciuslens of

  
 

the PBL 2 progeny af

the FBI ont ‘e cancd to your agency?
. oO te aad its conten:s ar9 not f ba .
of disertout xt gatside your aptucy.

¢ a on Se aon wee
. + -OMOSR ee es”
Fo

- 2.
104-10342-10016 5

 

 

In Reply, Please Refer to

~~ o—.
Ws U
UNITED STATES: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

“Washington, De Ce. 20535
November 13, 1967

GORDON DWANE NOVEL

On November 8, 1967, Gordon Dwane Novel, a
self-described "electronic bugging expert” and a witness
in District Attorney James Garrison's probe into the
assassination of the late President John F. Kennedy,
voluntarily furnished the following information to a.
Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

; Novel stated that recently he has sold
manufacturing rights for his antibugging devices which
he called checkmate, to the Zelex Marketing Corporation,
866 United Nations Plaza, New York, New York, Through the
Zelex Corporation, Novel has received inquiries. from :
several foreign governments, through their embassies
in Washington, De Ce; regarding bugging and anti bugging
equipment.

Novel said that he demonstrated both bugging

“and antibugging equipment to the following foreign

government representatives:

_ Brigadier Furdoon Lb. B. Mehta, J. Se,
Military Attache, Embassy of India,
- Washington, D. ¢. nnn

-(PNU) Storer, Attache, British Embassy,
; Washington, De Ce ee

Perry Lasada, Personnel Security, Embassy
of Venezuela, Washington, Do. C.

- Erdogan Guven, Attache, Embassy of Turkey,
Washington, De. GC.

Asurin Joesoef, Office of the Military
Attache, Embassy of Indonesia, : Washington, Deo Co

eal

Distribution: 28 Nov. 1967. - ir
Mr. McCord, Mr. Kane oF, Wil
. : . ; . i
TSD and Mr. (via Mr | ;

(na )

 

 

 
