13-00000

 

 

t

fe6e 622.

OSWALD's case was not the’ same as other Americans in Russia because
he was considered not normal-and he was not considered a defector as.
were MARTIN and MITCHELL. : . .

“: SUBIECE. heard that OSWALD applied in Moxie for’ return to Russia.
Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate! to the Second Main
Directorate. . Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

“he had tried. suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and was considered not normal. so the request should: be rejected.

SUBJECT was: then shown some 2 photographs and he said. he had porn a

picture of Marina OSWALD ina magazine.

A long list of names was read and shown to SUBJECT but he failed —

‘to identify any of them. Many of the names were of people in Minsk.-

‘JIB: jms

SECRET

-3-

 

‘owe
13-00000

en

 

 

| be 622

“The ‘American ‘Enbassy was. not informed of his suicide attempt because.
he was going to leave the country and he was not an,; important: person.

‘While: OSWALD was in Minsk he received a stipend ‘from the Red Cross.

KGB had information on Marina OSWALD only after/she announced her
intention to marry him. A record check, neighborhood, and employment
check on her showed that she was a simple , normal, not clever person,
and she was ‘not in the Young Communist League because she did not pay
her dues. Some’ investigative reports said she was- stupid. :

: / ’
KGB. did: not consider using her in any capacity.

 

She has an uncle who is a Lieutenant Colonel inthe Minsk militia. .

 

She must be iMegitinate because she does not use or know her father’ BS.
“name.

The only surveillance ever put on OSWALD was an agent and there was *
never any on Marina. : .

“After their marriage her pay was- increased, to impress the foreigner
she married. .

She was 5 not. asked to stay in Russia after marriage because he was.
to leave and Russians believe a husband and wife ‘Should be together
(unless one is a high level person).

Neither of the OSWALDS, BOE any briefing or: instructions before :
-Leaving Moscow. -

In addition to KRUZNOF and Che SUBJ CT, DUBAS .and MUSHKOV were
the KGB Agents in Moscow who knew of the OSWALD case before the
assassination. A Department Chief, JQMOKOV, and five other KGB Case
Officers knew of the case after the agsassinati ion.

 

KGB considered OSWALD an American citizen ‘becau: se he had been.
denied Soviet citizenship.

KGB aia not know any of OSWALD's personal contacts in Russia.

Some of the Intourist people OSWALD dealt with vere KGB Agents

- Srener

Me ‘ ~T-
13-00000

 

  

 

 

 

- SECRET

6 Suly 1964 Report

‘On 2 July Msers. NOBLE, WESTRELL and BENNETT visited the site. .
The present air conditioning situation is satisfactory. Mr. McMAHON

 

arrived at, noon in a "panic", had to speak to Subject immediately and

 

did so until 1345 hours, discussion a
(phonetic) and his family. While McMAHON was there. SR Division

_ @alled and pressed the matter even harder. McMAHON: then returned to’

Headquarters and came back to the site aga in at about 1645 hours. He
expects to remain about ours. . . . :

On 3. July an interrogation of Subject vy RYAN took place from

1230-86" 1530 hours. Discussion dealt with the, OSWALD. case.

On 4-5 July all custodial precedurs were routine. Subject aid.
try to "bum" a. cigarette from a DFO man (Subject is. ; Getting smokes
during interrogation sessions).

é

Division doesn't plan to vis it Subject on 6 July according to

“latest reports.

‘8 July 1964 Report ; ; : .

No visitors at the site on 7 July. ‘Subject ate all meals, was
given a ‘path in the evening. All custodial procedures normal and
routine. :

13 uly 1964 Report

Custodial procedures were routine during the. weekend of li-ie July.

14 July 1964 Report

 

. On 13 diy Case Officer interrogated the Subject from
1530 hours to 1720 hours (subjects: of discussion urknown). All
custodial procedures routine and normal.

No case officer visits to the site are expected today.

SECREI
13-00000

 

 

 

coy te SEDREE

. ee 622 .

The Case Officer then ,started discussing the cabe of a , Tulgertan,

 

who was arrested by the Bulgarians “in Moscow in 1963. SUBJECT

 

 

 

“He stated there was no suspicion of (Jat. that time.

obtained his information on this case from SHERAPIN, and Alexander PAPOVICH

in 1963.

SUBJECT said |was invited to Moscow: in 1963 at the. suggestion
of the Bulgarian MVD. He. was settled in the Metropole Hotel and kept
under TV surveillance. While he was in Moscow his rooms in Bulgaria
were searched and evidence was found (radio): which vas sufficient for

 

the’ Deputy Chief of the ‘Bulgarian. MVD. to go to Moscow, arrest him and

return hin to Bulgaria for questioning and. trial or’ court martéal.

SUBJECT went to Bulgaria in 1961 to help them on American cases.

 

 

had worked in the United States and was believed to have been recruited

at that’ time. -

. The Bulgarians, on confronting in the Metropole Hotel,
said, oes you're under arrest". , >

 

 

 

 

: ‘At. this point the interview ended and SUBJECT asked the Case Officer
to congratulate the boys and wish them all a good holiday for him. He -
did this when the Case Officer said he did’ not think he would be back

on 3 July.

Friday,.3July_3964, - The Case Officer wanted to discuss the KGB
involvement in the: OSWALD case.

. SUBJECT said he did not know that OSWALD went to Moscow from Helsinki

- but that OSWALD's visa application was processed in the normal manner

and KGB had a copy of the visa application. Russian Imbassies, since
1960, have authority to issue visas, in three to five days after application.

OSWALD applied’ orally, and later fin writing, for Soviet: citizenship.
A copy of the written request went tol KGB. A copy of this request was
sent to the Supreme Soviet after OSWALD slashed his wrists.

KGB studied reports on OSWALD prepared by Case Officer KRUZNOF and

_ decided OSWALD was not normal so he was of ‘no interest to KGB and was.

not considered desirable for Soviet citizenship. His file was sent to
Minsk because he was to live and work in Minsk.

SECRET
-6-
13-00000

 

 

etal

2T July 1964 Report |

. No, visitors to the site over the weekend. Subject has been avidly
writing and reading, smoking about a pack of cigarettes per day. All
custodial Procedures routine. . :

On_27 July 1964 » case officer RYAN interviewed Subject : from 1330

to 1830 hours, discussing OSWALD case. fubject had written on many

sheets & paper, mostly answers to questions put to him by the case

' officers. -RYAN advised that one of these papers was ‘a lengthy; letter

from Subject to Pete (BAGLEY), a although the contents : iwere not known
to RYAN yet. .

Subject was given a Dook entitled, "Democracy in Unions" yes- :

vorta No visitors are expected on 28 July, although it is anticipated

that both the Doctor and RYAN. will come to the site tomorrow (29 July).

_ Subject’ is in good spirits. : ; 6

_ Custodial procedures are rormal and routine.

At the request : of OS/LOG, Tom RYAN vas requested to initiate action

| with SR/DOB to provide some relief for the cook. Fimma has been working

a 6 day. week since early April with Ed SANNER's wife filling in the
seventh day. RYAN was requested to obtain the services’of a cook.and .
a helper to work- at least 2 days a week’ and no’more than 3 days. RYAN

. wil advise.

29 July 1964 Report

No visitors to site on 28 July. Subject given bath in evening.
AL site custodial procedures routine.

30 July 1964 Report _

- . ; | ; .
On 29 July the Doctor visited Sub ject from 1015 to 1115 hours.

_ He pronounced Subject to be in. good condition, although Subject still

claims we are taking pictures of him. The Doctor recommended no
changes in routine. .

SpoRET

 
 

104-10300-10198

-

     

Cp aAnpes
- . olen]
AL
! MEMORANDUM ‘FOR: Deputy Chief, Security At is Group’.
| a .
; _ SUBJECT: : : “Documents Relating to “the ennedy

“Assassination. my

, ; ‘your request, the. undersigned and
; reviewed the eighteen: volumes of |
+ Covert’ security file 2 622 relating. to the custodial

handling of Yuriy Nosenko. “In. addition.to the. eighteen,
volumes, various unnumbered files relating to site plan
for the various safe sites used in this case and adminis~
trative files relating to expenses incurred ‘and other -
miscellaneous items were. also revicwed.

 

 

 

2. As a result of these reviews, the attached documents
were located which make mention.of Nosenko's being debricfed
concerning Lee Harvey Oswald. Additionally, a memorandum
dated 11 March 1964 from the District Field Office (DFO) was.
also located which gives a summary: of information which
Nosenko provided to DFO personnel during casual. conversation.
One of the items in- this memorandum — is the lengthy discussion
of” Nosenko' s knowledge of Oswald.

Ves > ia a fA 2 Oven thane
‘ Raymond M. Réardon
Security Analysis Group

Atts

(355+ 106!

oa : for FOIA Review ‘on MAR 1977

Document Number

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 063994
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

se SEORET

30 July 1964 Report -

Case Officer RYAN interrogated Subject from.1530 to 1800 hours,

‘29 July. The discussion concerned the OSWALD case, the method (s)

by which private citizens in USSR get. firearms and training and they
talked about some-Americans recruited in Paris for the KGB. —

All custodial procedures routine and normal.

31 July 1964 Report

On 30 July 1964, all custodial procedures were ‘routine and normal.
Case officer is expected to come to the site on 31 July 1964. ;

3 August 1964 Report

On 31 July 1964 case officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 100°
to 1600 hours. ‘They discussed "Intourist", KGB personalities, USSR
war plans and KGB activities during the “Cuban Crisis". Subjeet #il1":
believes we are taking pictures of him.

At 2015 Subject came to the door of his room, said he wanted to
talk. In effect, he wanted to get something off his chest. He said
he could talk because he knew the cameras and recorders were not
operative at that hour. He launched into a monologue about his mother,
father, sister, brother and uncle. Became very emotional, saying that
he was misunderstood, that he really: wants to remain in the US. Spoke
of his KGB work, recruitment and techniques. Finally at 0045 hours,

1 August, he went to bed.

Remainder of 1 August was uneventful. ‘Sunday 2 August also quict.
All custodial procedures routine.

SECRET
13-00000

7 SeaRET

 

fee 622° ee oS re "5 August 1964

Week of 27 - 31 July 1964 . i

Interrogation on 27 July 1964 ran from 133 to “1828- hours. With’ ;
of the exception of social aménities and a review of the notes SUBJECT had
4 made since his last interview with the Case Officer, the interrogation

: ’ consisted of a review of the OSWALD case. It was based on a verbatim
transcript the Case Officer had typed from the 3 July 1964 tape. The.
Case Officer (Thomas RYAN) questioned: SUBJECT oni why: KGB did not do |
certain things such as: run an investigation of ' OSWALD, check into his
Marine experience, etc. : .

On 29 July 1964 (a.m-) the doctor made his weekly examination of
the SUBJECT. SUBJECT gave a brief run-down of his personal life before
his father died in. 1958, said he was being kept in confinement because
he is trying to help us and said we are still taking pictures of him but .
the clicking has become quieter.

 

om . On 29 July..1964 interrogation ran from: 1530 hours to 1802 hours. .
: The OSWALD case was discussed again and the Case Officer’ started a on .
discussion on how people obtain and keep guns in their homes in Russia.
He also wanted to reconcile the fact that SUBJECT at one time stated
OSWALD was.a poor shot but on another occasion said he was a good marksman.

The Case Officer then went into a discussion of a Paris based, American,
U. S. Government. employee who was recruited by the KGB. This individual was
still in Paris in January 1964, He would make documents available to KGB so
they could be photographed and returned to ‘the vault on the same day.
. SUBJECT had no identifying data on this American. The discussion concerned
the American's contacts, station location, travel routes, etc.

 

On 31 July 1964 interrogation started at 1416 hours. Questions and
discussion concerned the Intourist Organization and the extent to which
it serves as a cover for KGB people, KGB war emergency plans, and the
extent to which these Plans ‘were activated ¢ at the time of the U.'S. /Cuban
Crisis.

 

The last item discussed was tnefopessi case. ‘Tones is the eode name
for an agent named (CUPPA\ who was scheduled to go to ‘Pokyo in April 1964.

Interrogation concluded. at 1824 hours.”

JdB: jms

SECRET

a ; : cL
