74-0000

NOTE:

An unaddressed note from David Young, which transmitted
three FBI memoranda, Subject; "Daniel Elisberg - Expionage-X",
dated 13 July 1971, 20 July 1971, and 22 July 1971. (These three
memoranda are found at Tab B, Volume Il, CIA Materials Furnished

to the Special Counsel, Committee on the Judiciary, House of
} a

Representatives.

vio FOR RELEASES
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRO

tomy eS 2 .
ee
74-00000

‘is used, the Agency | should not become involved,

Mr. David Young
. Room i6
Executive Office Building
The White House

Dave: a oo -

Attached is the personality assessment you). ° 5
requested on Elisberg. If there are any aspects og
of this assessment which, in your opinion requre
amplification, we would be happy to arrange to
make the individual who ‘prepared it available for
discussion,

iknow that you appreciate that however this .

i co ii August 1971

 

Director of Security. ' re -.
. ” - .
- i
e* -
%
.
é
. ~- —— =
meapene EE _ .
: _— .

 
1k. On 27 Octoder 1971, I met with Mr. Hunt and with Mr. Liddy
“and with li. Young at the Executive Office Building. The essence of
the observations noted above in the 20 August 1971 discussions were
orally presented. I was told to prepare the naterial in writing.
On 3 November 1971 Me. Liddy sent ne rtner information on Blisberg.
Oa 1 November 1971 Mr. Young at the White House telephoned me requesting
_ the report the following day and he vas informed thet the requested
report was at that tin ne in the hands of my supervisors for their
evaluation. On 12 November 1971 the material wes delivered by me
to the White House and to ir. Liddy, Mr. Young and Mr, Hunt. These men
were interested in obtaining information which could be used to defame
: or nanipulate Elisberg. While it was never expressed, it was my
_ impression that the naterial and information provided were not of

direct interest or usefulness to Hunt, Liddy or Young.

Subscribed and-sworn to before me this Jt day of “haa?

    

 

“2973. é ee
ME
Hotazgr Public cea j :
hy Commission Expire Weigh 44,1975 i
6
Se ee a 7
74-00000

oe

Sa ca a EN he TA NAN AS ana NT NN NNN ene nes

called me.

d. He may have been involved in leaking informetion
about a South Vietnamese in 1970 while he was
actually in psychoanalytic treatment.

To the best of ny recollection it ves agreed that the
implications of the ebove data would be orally discussed by me with
Me. Hunt, Mr. Liddy and Mr. Young. It was also agreed that there would

be the greatest reluctance to undertake any interview of the former

Mrs. Ellsberg, and it was hoped that efter this a written document would

not be necessary.
10. The Deputy Director for Support consi dered advising * the

Der, but it was decided that I would ‘first visit Mr. Young and inform hin

‘that the additional material basically provided for no further

understanding. It was hoped that this would put an end to the si tuation,

but if further material was forwarded the matter would have to be dealt:

with at that time.

il. ‘The Deputy Direct tor for Support statea thet after the meeting

with Mr. Young, the DCI would ‘be brought up to date.

12. Following the meeting on ‘Friday, 20 Angst, and in accord
with the discussions on that date, a-call was placed on Monday, 23. August,
to Mr. David Young at the White House. Mr. Young was informed that we
had received the materiel which hed been forwarded and that we had 7
considered it, and vould be ‘ava¥iable to discuss the data further.

Mr. Young stated that he would have Mr. Hunt ‘call me. He stated that

“Mr. Hunt's office vas elsewhere in the building and he aid not have his

number immediately aveilable. As of 27 August 1971 Mr. Hunt had not -
13. On 30 Septenber 1971; there isa yellow nemorandum of a
telephone call to me from David Young at the White House with the

message that Mr. Hunt suggested meeting Wednesday, 27 October, at 11:00 a.m.

‘On 12 October 1971 I received some more data from Mr. Hunt ‘at the White

House.

— wee a . oy
14-00000

“3+ <A Giscussion wes held with the group concerning the dengers of
preparing such a study in isolation and without’ the opportunity for the

free give and take discussions among experts, as had been the case in our

i
|
li
ii
| other studies. I was informed that more biographic material vas available.
| I was requested to give exammles of the kind of information needed. I

t pointed out thet insofar as possible, “although possibly not available,"

| ’ data from early life from nurses or close relatives would be useful. [

f agreed with "Mr. Tinney" that schoo progress, ineluding testing, vould be
helpful. In the same way, year books, his years in college end in the
military, comments from friends would be helpful. Mr. Hunt also stated
that it would be useful for Dr. Ellsberg's first wife to be interviewed
. and he felt, "You can easily arrange that under en operational alias."

It was pointed out that the first Mrs. Ellsberg would bé cooperative.

6.° Information was also offered by Mr. Hunt or "Mr, Linney" to
the effect that Dr. Ellsberg had beén in analysis although times or

location were not known for certain. - "Hr. Linney" pointed out that after

|

Dr. Ellsberg gave the Pentegon papers evey, he telephoned his analyst
| stating, "Now I am free." , a

| T- “ur. Linney" and Mr. Young, with Mr. Hunt's assent, pointed
i out that the ‘Elisberg study was of the highest priority, even over the

; SALE negotiations. It was agreed that the further biographic infornation
, regarding Dr. Elisberg would be sent to us: and Mr. Hunt agreed to menage
| this. Mr. Hunt would elso make arrangements whereby periodic conferences
| would be held as necessary. Mr. Hunt did, however, offer that he did not
| wish to come out to the Agency if he could avoid it. .

8. At this point Mr. Hunt made some comments in the presence of
| the group based on his previous gequaintanceshtp with me and he remained
| behind and made some further counents expressing | a desire that nis

| presence and participation in the meeting not be mentioned at the Agency.
| ' After arriving back at the Agency I informed Mr. Hunt by telephone that
it was not feasible for me to avoid reporting Mr. Hunt's presence at the
meeting. if. Hunt expressed great regret that this was necessary,

stating thet he had adequate contact with Generel Cushman end was on good

—_— see
74-0000

terns with the Director. He. was reluctant in agreeing to my’ statement
that it was necess ary to inform the Director of Medical Services.
| ‘Mr, Hunt wished to know if this could be treated as confidential medical
| information, but could not tell the writer in what way. I discussed the
| entire situation-~the dangers and the reservations and the ‘gravity of
| the situation with the Deputy Chief, Psychiatric Staff, the Director
and Deputy Director of Medical Services.

9. On 13 August 1971, additional information was received from

the White House. To the best of my knowledge this was ‘from Howard Hunt

‘and consisted of poorly Xeroxed.classified FBI reports and Department of

| State documents. This material provided additional deta and on
20 August 1971 the Director of Nedical Services and the writer met with
the Deputy Director for Support ‘concerning the Whit te House request in
the Elsberg case end the continuing pressure and desive for a psychiatric
study. The problems associated with developing the study and our
continuing reservations were. discussed in detail. In view of Mr. Hunt's
enthusiasn, concerns existed about the checks and balances to actions

' based on a stuay if one were to be undertaken. To the best of my recall

the Deputy Director for Support was in agreenent with us. While the

‘under emotional pressure it was not possible to exrive at ‘any firm
conclusions or couprehensive understanding of the nants personality.
“The addit tional information indicated that: ,

a. He haa revealed quasi-Secret information while

. | additional information furnished further, suggested that Ellsberg was
still in the service when he was applying for a

Ph.D. fellowship .

| bd. He had volunteered for Vietnamese service for the
| State Department in 1965 while under the stress of
| : obtaining a divorce from his first wife.

| ce. He had sought psychoanalytic ‘treatment between the
| ) fall of 1968 and 1970 with a psychoanalyst. (who was

determined to be professionally qualified and

reputable) in California.
 

NOTE:
| The first page of this affidavit was missing from —
Tab C, Volume I, Documentation Supplied by CIA 1 June 1973... : :
,
{
t

 

 
ftg-10708-10145

 

NOTE:.

The following materials relate to preparation of the
psychological assessment of Daniel Elisberg.

 
  
 

“rete a
Ried roe.

A
74-00000

a a e. |
STATE OF VIRGINIA)

)ss.
COUNTY OF FAIRFAX)

AFFIDAVIT

WA” ; ee being first duly sworn, depose and say:
1. I was born on 2 September 1928, was graduated from Lambuth

College, Jackson, Tennessee, and Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,

_Agency since Novenber 1958. I have been in the Psychiatric Staff of
the Office of Medical Services of the Agency since that ‘time . :

2. %In the summer of 1971 the Medical Office was approached, by
the Director of Security corieerning the ‘preparation of a psychiatric

‘study on Deniel Ellsberg, who had been accused of leaking the Pentagon

E= Nashville, Tennessee, and have been employed by the ‘Centrel Intelligence
the Director of Medical Services thatthe DCI was knowledgeable and had
approved the Director of Security's visit and the request that was being
made of the Medical Office. There vas general reservation and concern

" expressed about such an effort involving as it did potentially

”

papers. To the best of my recollection, it was my understanding from

oe controversial and highly speculative efforts. Tt was felt that such
activity, involving as this did an American eit tizen, might be outside of

the Agency's purview.. Tt 3 was recognized thet such efforts, while

nistakenly considered to have been derived from the doctor-patient

. therapeutic ‘relationship which was. in ‘fact fer from the case. An initial

 

effort was prepared by Dr. : . _ under . the direction, of myself

:

| desirable in some quarters, could be misunderstood, misinterpreted, ‘and

| based upon a review of magazine end. newspaper articles containing
biographical data about Ellsberg, as well as some FBI documents consisting

: of interview reports by informants about Ellsberg.
i
i
i
i
i
'

 

RELEASE 19
; «GHA msi REVIEW Pag
74-00000

a

 

3- On 12 August 1971, on instructions from the Director of
Medical Services, the writer met with Mr. David ‘Young, Roon 16, Executive
Orfice Building, to discuss the matter of a psychiatric write-up on the
case of Daniel Ellsberg. Mr. Young, at the time the appointment vas made,
had stated that there was more information which he wished to discuss.
The meeting lasted for approximately an hour and Mr. Young was joined by
a Mr. Linney (orobably Liddy), who seemed to be an assistent. Mr. Young

stated that the Ellsberg study had the highest priority and had been

' requested by Hr. Bhrlichman and Dr. Kissinger. ' Mr. Young also stated that

the President had been informed of this study. “He stated that it vas a

multi-faceted approach and the psychiatric report would be only one facet.

He stated that he understood that the Agency was uneasy about undertaking
such a study and assured me that there hed been no delineation as to how

information derived from the study yould. be utilized, and if there were

5 any. utilization that great care would be. given to make it nonattributable

to ‘the Agency. Mr. Young was interested in knowing" what kind of data
would be needed in order to | provide further study of the sort done

"on Fidel Castro." Later on Mr. Howard Hunt joined the group. Mr. Hunt
recognized me, being a former Agency employee, and we greeted cordially.
Mr. Hunt amplified on Mr. Young's comménts ‘and stated it was his wish to
"try Dr. Ellsberg in public. * Other coments were made by Mr. Hunt or
"Mr. Linney" to the effect that the aim would be to render Dr. Ellsberg

ineffective or to make him the object of pity asa broken man. Mr. Hunt

stated that he wished to see data of the sort that * Psychiatrists found out

about Barry Goldwater in 196k, * " and he expressed interest in being able
to refer in a knowledgeable way to Dr. Ellsberg' s oedipal conflicts or
castration fears and other similar points. ,

4. Zt seemed from Me. Young and. "Mr. Tinney" that there was

“considerable concern that Dr. Elisberg had a great deal more sensitive

information which it was feared he would from tine to tine periodically
expose. "Mr. Linney" stated that Dr. Ellsberg thought of hinself as

“having the white hat and the President as having the black hat."

 

anne ener an
