140000
ia

i
i
i
{
|
i

 

%

3. Further, we were advised that Lucien E. Conien,
former staffer (OS#5025) about whom there was much publicity
in the past in connection with covert agency operations in the
Fak East, is now employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency.

4. Search of O of S records were negative as to: Howard
Gibson; Security Defense System; Intelligence Services, Ltd.; and
Advance Security Corp. © of S records reveal a file # 660 374 on
one Steve Van Cleave; however, this file was only established in
January 1974 as a result of inquiries and searches conducted then
in response to an interest expressed by Lyle Miller, Office of
Legislative Counsel. Van Cleave had apparently suggested to
Washington sources that he worked for CIA in Latin America under
cover of Coca Cola Company. This was false. John Patrick
Muldoon is the Subject of O.5, file # 134 816. Muldoon is a former
staff employee (1958-1972), who retired in November 1972. The
latest file information indicates that he may be employed as the
Washington representative of a firm, Security Consultants Inter~
national, O of S records were negative re this firm. It is under-
stood that an FBI inquiry re Muldoon is # currently being handled by
Mr. Tim Harrington.

5. Mitchell Livingston Werbell III (OS# 27686), was in the OSS
briefly (7/45-12/45) during WW I and has repeafimdly come to CIA
attention through the years. He has a reputation as a "wheeler-
dealer-con man -gun runner-soldier of fortune" and his activities,
particulary in the F,E. and WH areas, continually brush up against
CIA interests. In Feb. 1967, the DomesticeContact Service advised
that Werbell. Ill frequently volunteered information to their Miamt
office. The files reflect no other indication of CIA use of Werbell.
In Jan. 1974, the Office of General Counsel (Mr. Diettel) was in-
quiring about Werbell's son, Mitchell L. Werbell IV, who ‘was re-
putedly an officer in the Central Investigation Agency, Atlanta, Ga.
The FBI conducted a National Agency name check at CIA on Werbell
Til in Sept. 1962.

John F, Meehan
Acting Chief, EAB
it 424

 

A10112-10

 

a

7 RETURNTO GIA
Background Use Only
Do Net Reproduce

13 August 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SSD

SUBJECT Covert Sites - General
#77 500

. 1. Reference is made to yoifr recent request for in-
formation relative to individuals mentioned in In Cable 00349
from FR Basis for the cable was FBI information
concerning allegations that a Washington, D.C. office located
some 4 or 5 blocks from the White House and leased to the

Drug Enforcement Agency was being used by CIA as an elec-
tronic surveillance listening post. The Office, allegedly
operated by a CIA officer, Lacien Conein, is purported to be
subleased from Howard Gibson, head of the Washington office

of the Atlanta based firm, Central Investigative Agency. The
owner of the Central Investigative Agency was reputed to be
Mitchell WERBELL, an Atlanta resident, who allegedly is a
gun_runner and private investigator. The FBI agent advised

FR at Gibson and Werbell are currently in litigation
for some reason and that Gibson is probably capable of spread-
ing the story about a CIA listening post in an effort to embarrass
Werbell. 7

 

2. Subsequently you advised that it had been determined
that the alleged site in question was Suite 1209 A, located at
1028 Conn, Ave. N.W. Washington, D.C. reportedly occupied
by a firm of Securi ty Consultants. You were advised at that time
that review of Office of Security records reflected no connection
by CIA with the office in question nor any current interest in any
of the principals involved. O of S records reflect no existing in-
terest in any office space at 1028 Conn. Ave. N.W. although one
agency component has expressed a potential future interest in a
Suite on the 10th floor of that building, La Salle Building, at 1028
Conn. Ave. N.W. To date it not only has not occupied that Suite
but has not determined whether they shall proceed towards future
utilization,
