 

 

jooked at Brand and speeded up the car aound the blocke Before they could zet to
Brand, Brand had entered into his safehouse, at Hotel Vista Al Mar.

Next day, Brand vent to one of his safehouses to try to make an appointment wit!
This safehouse was very well located, but Brand never liked the
Way in Which bonte, a cuban employee of the Compa had built up the cover for th
, poy ss ’ Pp

safehouse. When Brand reached this apartment, he found that it had been sealed by
the Government, as it had been dons with hundreds of empty apartments in the city.
That didn't prove anything, except that the cover had not been well built ug.
Brand made an appointment with Both started walking around the!
city for about two hours. Brand told | that he had decided to discontinue ope
and come to Washington to see
Brand then went to ses Alfredo Izaguirre, and stayed at his place for a week. I
ihe meantime, and through Tzaguirre!s friendgat the Embassy, Brand sent a flash to
dl informig him of Brand's decision to discontinus overations. At the end
6 wesk, Alfredo Izaguirre returned home ons night quite upset and told Brand
that it was better for him to go to live somewhere else.
Through Benito Fernandez, Brand made contact with a very well known physician n
Dr,» Bernardo Milanses. Though Brand had decided to discontinus operations, he reeruil
Dr. Milanes, who was willing to bring acgroup of about 30 of his fellow physicians

to work with Cuba Libre. _
But then, Benito Fernandez came to see Brand and told him that Nino Diaz was in

Santiago, making contacts with different groups. Since Brand had been told by Alfr
ieee that he, Izaguirre, had been approached by Major humberto Sori Mar hy wh
c Sa to have thres other majors willing to revolt against the Government, Brand
decided inmediately to go to Oriente and try to put Nino Diaz in contact with Sori
Marin, because Sori Marin had also stated that he had 500 men, and that he coul:
“control 14 Idlometers off the southern coast in C Orientes Brand wdnt to see Izaguirr
and asked Hi to establish contact with Sori 2 Marin and tell him that Brand wanted |
see him, either in Havana or in Orientes*[vazuirre then told Brand, quite bluntly,
that his friends at the Embassy didn't know who Brand was, and had advised him to
discontinue his contacts with Brand until they could find out whe Bran was. Brand
left Izaguirre's house in a razee Ten days had elapsed from the day Brand sont the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

flash to and, nevertheless, Izaguirre's friends at the Embassy didn't
know and “had not been able to find out, who Brand was.
Brand then went to see to inquire about the Company's prepsrati

 

 

to take Brand out of ths country-| = ara that he had not received an answer on
but that they, the people from the Céiidany, had sent Be 5000 pesos.

Benito Fernandez brought Brand a very detailed map pointing out a DeZ. at or ne
La Gobernadora, in the northern coast of Pinar del Rio. The map was sent to the
Company right away. CabaMas informed Brand that steps had been taken to produce
sabotage at the main Cigar Factories in Havana.

Brand then saw Nardo for the last time. Nardo was highly pleased with the way
things were going on in the Province of Pinar del Rio, though he informed Brand ths
Robayna was in despair because he had not received the weapons that had been promi
to hin. - oe .

Contact were made by Brand which eventually Procuced his departure from the |
country.

By this time, the hairpiece looked awfully bad. Almost no glue was left, and

the last moustaches that had been sent to Brand had each hair pointing in a differen

dirse tione
\

}
f

   
 
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 

 
 

. -&

   
    
   
 
  
  
    
   
   
    
 
     
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
 
  

By this time, Brand has received information through Cabanas of the frequent cd
of Raul Raul Castro to the assy of Checoeslovaquia. We tried but could not ren
house acroos the street. Brand had instructed Roberto Alvarez to make a plan for
casing of the place anc also for the killing. The hands of the vrof‘essional coul
seen in ths instructions given by, Roberto Alvarez. At last, we got word that Rau]
Castro was going to live in Orients, and since we were not abe to rent the house
the olan was dropped.

In his last meeting with Brand, Cesar Lancis had informed him of the possibilid
of killing Fidel at the National Hotel, where he used to go to have dimmer with ti
employees. This was also told to Roberto Alvarez, who began thinking about plans:
regarding the National Hotel and Pekin Restaurant.

Rumors began to.spread around town that Plinio had been captured somewhere near

fl Escambray mountainse

Meanwhile, Cabafas had seen Brand several times, and had informed him ot the

recruitings he had made for Cuba Libre among the drivers and conductors of Cooperat
de Cunibus Aliadose *

Finally, the newspapers in town published some pictures of Plinio Prieto after
capture near El Escambray. The summary trials began. The day before the execution,
is, the llth of October, came to see Erand. He informed Brand tha
Juan Mendez’ and some othsr-z sre-roing to start shooting around town in orde
prove the Gova me uuban People was against the executions, and on the g
of the rebels. asked Brand how many men could he give to sta shal
around town. Brand answered that he had no men available for that. T
asked if Brand had any men available + inio. Brand-arrswereu tne —
could give armed wen for that purvose. also asked ebout Brand's
possibilities in men to help in an attempt against Fide 's life at Mulgoba. Brand
answered that he could give armed men for that action.The "we-must-do-something" at
("tenemos gue hacer also"), is the worst thing that can happen in a consviracy. Whef"
Brand realized that all the leaders in the different zroups wanted to start shooti
without plans or any definite purpose, Brand began to have strong doubts about the
seriousness or coordination of the efforts that were under wWaye

After Plinio's execution, morals came to an all time low. Brand instructed Caba

to start sabotage on the busses in Havana. Brand sent a flash to insisti
on the urgency of receiving incendiary and demolition materials. No answer. In the
between the 17th and the ake th of October, more than one hundred buases were danazed
Havana by pouring starch or emery in the radiators.

Benito Fernandez had informed Brand that Guido Gonzalez Bustamante had seen Beni
and had incuired about Brand's whereabouts. Benito said that Brand was out of Cuba.
Guido then said that Miguel Isa Fresneda, a former friend of Zrand and presently
holding a high position at the Ministerio de Gobernacion, had informed Guido that 2
was in Havana, under disguise, and offering money and weapons to different underzro
organizations. Isa's son in law, named Nelson Barroso, was a member of the Judicial
Police in Cuba.

Meanwhile, Nano Alonso, former member of the Army, and present member of the Fro
in the Province of Pinar del Rioyhad sent a message to Dr. Nardo. In, that message t
Nardo, Alonso gaide ‘it is a shame that you refused to work with us at the Front, 4
have permitted +25" BS deceived by the man of the hairpiece and the dyed moustache"
answered saying that he had known the man of the hairpiece for many years, and that
man never tried to deceive anyon

Brand had never contacted or sent messages either to Nao Alonso or to Miguel Is

resneda.
One afternoon, around the 16th of October, while Brand-was in a car driven ty
a Portuzal, a woman employse of the Slectric Company, Brand noticed that thre
olicemen in a vatrolcar were insistently sturing at him. The patrol car went ane
rand's car, and since Srand was near his safehouse, he : 108, out of the

   

y

   
 
   

 

   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
#
ft
2
‘
‘
74-00000

~4

‘her that that was not true.

. themselves as friends of Nino Diaz. Brand offered them help, and and asked them to coo;

   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 

Through Vidal Morales, Brand met a man named Jaime Gomils Perez. Gomila was one
ot the leaders et the Union Vinatera Nacional, an association of wine intustrialis®
Brand saw Gomila three times. Somila offered to'zet the defection of the Under Sec#
of the Treasury (Subsecretario de Hacienda), Dr. “Israch Rodriguez. He also said th
he could get. the defection of one of the members of the Supreme Court, whose name
Brand does not remember now. Gomila also said. Gomila had also mado contacts with ¢
Captain of the army, stationed in Santiago, named Quintana Mena. This captain had 4
a uember of the G-2 and he wanted to cooperate with the forces fighting Castro. Br.
inatructed Gomila to get intelligence reports from this Captain, and also from the
Subsecretario de Hacienda and from the Member of tie Supreme Court. Gomila went to
Santiago de Cuba to see the Captain, but Brand does not know the oucome of their
meeting, because Brand didn't see Gomila ,25aine .

One day Brand went to Fernandez Plana's house to have a meeting with the militad,
chief of the Frotfin the Province of Pinar del Rio. Brand fekt~he had noticed some
surveillance around the place. When Brand told this to Fernandes Plana.and hia frif
they adopted a somewhat we-don't-believe~in-ghosts attitude. They told Brand that
were going to see the man from Pinar del Rio in a different place. They offered
transportation fue Brand. Brand went with Anselmo, whose car was parked in front of
Fernandez Plana's house. After Anselmo had been driving for a while, Brand asked
ig he was looking through the rear mirror, to see if they had been followed. A few
seconds after this remark, Anselmo said that a car was after them. Brard thenlinstry
Anselmo not to go to the meeting place. They began driving around. town, and the cag
kept after them. Finally they went to Calixto Garcia's Hospital. Brand went into al
ovilding, took off his moustache and glasses and went out by the aame door he had
to come in. The men who had been following them were there, but it seems they didnf

recognize Brand, who walked away. eo:

Around these days, while Brand was going to a meeting, he saw in the streets an
friend of his, Pancho Varona, a fellow conspirator against Batista. Brand Entibed -
{o,come into ths car. They talked for a few minutes and set a date and place for a
meeting. Three days after that, Varona met Brand. Varona informed Brand that a few
days before an airplane had dropped equipment at Zl Escambray, and that the equipmi.
had been caught by Fidel's forces. Brand asked some D.Zs. from Varona. Varona prom)
to get.them, but. he looked quite skeptical about many things.3rand told him.

The next time Brand saw Benito Fernandez, he said that Plinio's mother had visi
him, quite nervous, saying that his son had been captured at Zi Eecambray. Benito

. Prior to this meeting, Benito Fernandez had introduced “to Bran ng two friends of |}
nened Enrique Barroso, and another young man by the name of Cruze They identified

their efforts with Brand in the province of Pinar del Rios They said that they had
talk those things with Nino Diaz before making any deffnite arrangement. They sak:
Cruz was going to Miami to see Nino Diag. They wanted Brand to establish bona fidd
Nino Diaz so ha&= might trust Brand. Brand sent a flash to Jim Bowdin, asking him
establish Brand's bona fide with Nino Diaz. Many days passed by, and Brand was, nog
able to continue negotiations, because no answer ever came from Jim Bowdin or ‘any
member of the Company. Prior to this meeting with Barroso and Cruz, Brand had had
a first meeting with Barroso. Benito Fernandez knew that Barroso and Cruz had many
hidden weapons in Havana. ‘

“Through Losada, Brand met a ‘man named Juan Tabranes. This man Tabranes | 16
the leaders of"Resistencia Agramonte". Losada‘had informed him of his dealtug
Brand. He said that in order-to get a final agreement with “Cuba Libre", he had
inform a man named Rossel, who is living in the United States. Tabranes looked wi
to come to an agreement with Brand.

 
yeann00
i.

me xe a 7 C |

i Anselmo. In this meeting they said. they had found a D.Z. and that they were going

|. the equipment and start tinge .
_ Through Brand met an American known as William Webster. This
was to put Brand In contact with a group of a friend of Brand who had gone to Mig

" years. This man's name is Simon Yabre. Simon Yabre was to put Brand in contact w:

' Mario Massip's group. By this time Brand had become a 4 uneasy about thd

lack of ne r and kept aski bout the deliverg

of weapons, | always answered Se knew nothing about it, that
) Fé

' to bs the exact ‘truth, that they had connections along the whole island with wel ,

7 People from the Frent-were supposed to go to that meeting. Brand was invited to a

_ =the men vides ; . f
Through Brand met a’man named Alfredo Izazuirre Rivas. Thea
told Bran een trained in sabotage and: that he had around 20 men all

aS
ot

     
   
 
  
  
  
    
    
  
 
    
   
  
   
     
    
  
  
  
 
   
   
 

By the first days of September Brand had met Dr. Rodolfo Henriques Lauranzon,| ay
8 Well known Cuban dentist. This dentist lent his house many times so that it cof
be used for Brand's meetings with Benito Fernandez. Brand also used Henriquez, aa
treasurer, Whenever Brand received money from the Company, he took it to Henriq :

_in order to avoid a heavy loss of money if Brand was captured. In one of the mee!
with Benito Fernandez, Brand met a man named Jose Cabe¥ff%,-who had been a Stockh

_ at the Cooperativa de Omnibus Aliados. This Cabafias had hundreds of friends 000)
drivers and conductors of busses in Havana. Cavafas promised to get safshouses a:
‘storehouses. He also promised to organize groups among the drivers and conductor#:
Havana. He also said that he was going to give Brand a driver. Brand gave Cabanall

' 620 pesos, a . : re :

: A few days later Brand met Luis Alvarez, a former bus dy ’ af Thy p
became Brand's driver. This Luis Alvarez had been reconmendet hye oor a
.be 2 courageous, dedicated and faithful companions ce -

In a new meeting with Jose Fernandez Planas, Brand met a young. physician know}:

give Brand a map pointing out the exact location of the place. They asked which t
. Weapons could Brand provides Brand mentioned all the weapons he hesad been promy
‘and commited himsel?.to deliver certain amount of those weapons fifteen days aftd
the map had reached his hands. The boys promised to give the map in short notice
These boys also wanted to establish contact with Brand's people in Pinar del Rio}
'° Some daya later Brand received a very detailed map of a LeZ. in the southern
‘coast of the Province of Pinar del Rio. It was sent to the Company right away.
_ By this time Robaynas. had sent Brand the location of another D.Z. By then .,. Re
kept asking about the weapons, and he Kept saying that his men were anxious to re

 

“ Named Mario Massip. Through Webster, Brand met a man already known to him for mam

SE

> always deli’

“were in that respect, : Se ae a,
o,, Through Webster, Brand made contact with a wealthy and very well known cuban
‘Silvio de Cardenas. Silvio de Cardenas said that he was one of the leaders of a g
headed by Jose Ignacio Rivero and Antonio Rubio Padilla. He said,-and Brand belid

ports but could not tell me what the policies of the Compa

“known and respected people. That they could provide fincas and transportation. 4
‘they wanted was weapons and guidances. Brand promised both. Through the Company, g
days later, Silvio de Cardenas provided two-DeZs. Brand. met Silvio de Cardenas fd’
five times. more. Cardenas gave a list of the weapons his friends needed. Brand ce
himself to deliver the weanons in due course, — ° ne .o

' One day Brand got. word that there was going to be a meeting at Plinio's safehe

ae

Brand sent word saying he saw no reason why:he had to. @o that meeting, but Plinio
insisted on Brand's attendances Brand went to the meeting. There he saw Plinio,
_ Efren Rodriguez, Jorge Espino, Francisco Santiago, Juan Mendez and Joe. Plans we: |
set to coordinate the OA and the Front's efforts to help Plinio in the mountains |:
it was established also that Brand would coordinate his men in Pinar del Rio with: .

organized in the City and Province of Havana. Brand told him that in due cours
weapons and sabotage and incendiary materials would be provided and that all Izag
had to do was to keep their men organized and ready to enter into action when req
. he would fini something for him to do.

: This man claimed to be one of the leaders of an organizations. in the Province o

_ to follow Brand. When the car aporoached Brand saw Nodal and Silvio Martinez, al,
‘member of Triple A. Silvio called Brand and insisted on having a moating with

-bad, and wany friends had warned. Brand that the hairplece looked. a fale from a m

‘-more than twelve or fifteen days. 2) The disguise was good as lohg as it made Bj -

.a long period of. time, this disguise should not have. distinctive features. It s]-
_in September Brand kept asking Jim to send Karl to Cuba. Brand wanted to be dis;

always have enough materials at hand.In many occasionasthe replacements fer mout

' Karl had made them in a hurrye

"was going to send Brand a map with the exact location of a J

-6~ a ar

pes

 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
    
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
    
    
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  

By this ‘time, Brand had met a man known as Roberto Alvarez, who had a red je 1 gs

and who said he had been trained in intelligence work, and that he h enin¢
for several years. This man was introduced to Brand by 4
was to help Brand in anything Brand would require of hin. Erand foun % Robel:

was available only after 5 peme and on Saturdays and Sundays. Brand found this
Alvarez to be a sensible, educated and calmed individual. Brand told this man t/>

Cabafias had given by now four safehouses. These: safehouses were already inha
but the families living there were to receive anyene in. needcof a safehouse. Ing
of those houses Brarid lived for two weeks. Another of those houses was used as @
safehouse for meetings. :

‘Through Cabanas and Benito Fernandez, Brand met @ man named Oscar Rodriguez. i

 

Oriente. They were willing to work provided.they were. supplied with weapons. Bre
found the man to be honest, but’ dumb and unexperienced. Newerthelesa, Brand ins

~- this man to keep in touch with Cabahas» q

By this time, Brand had. become a little bit uneasy about his ‘Atsguise. During

perambulations around town, Brand had met by chance with many old. friends. Nong}.
them recognized Brand. One day, however, a boy named Nodal, member of Triple A,
saw-Brand-in a drugstore and recognized him.. When Branu. went out, Brand noticed
that two men in a car were watching him. The. car went around the block and star

 

Brand was mad to. see how irresponsible and indiscreet these fellowa were. Brand}
them an appointment, but Brand didn't attend to it. Brand had become uneasy abot
the disguise because, although Bewas using a second hairpiecs, 1% looked awfull]

afar. They also said that the moustache looked tee dark. Brand's conclusion abo
this is what follows:l)The disguise was very good, but hairpieces: don't last long
in Cuba's climate. If one wears them daily, as Brand did, they are: net good for}

a different man, but it was bad because it had too. distinctive features, that i
‘that if the police radioed a description of a man with very dark hair, very dar! /
moustache, and a pair of somehow unusual glasses, it is dura eneugh that Brand.
going to be caught, It is Brand's opinion that if a man is .te wear a disguises f

be difficult to describe the man in disguise, This is why from the very first 4
in a different way. Another thing about disguises? the person in disguise should.

‘took too long to arrive to Cuba. The last ten moustaghes were rsceived in very 1.-
shape and were so bad that Brand thought they had not been mads by Karl, or thal.

By this time Brand had already met Mario Escote a known conspirator and old
friend of Brand. Esceto was Aureliano's representative. in Cuba, dnd-the man-in
charge of Triple A, Brand offered weapons. to: Escotoy provided Escoto zave Deda
Escoto said he had to consult this with Aureliano, but nevertheless, he said ‘t
, Brand also offer.
Escoto any money he might need, but Escote” said he didn't ne moneye He implied
that he had been provided with all the money he needed for his activities.. - Ff

By this time, Brand had notified the Company that all his men were to. work
the name of “Cuba Libre", and that this Organization was going to be =~ Aiea
Benito Fernandez, Jose Cabafias, Helio Nardo, Alfredo Izaguirre, and Braid

 

 

—,

DeseAN g
74-0000

. : ~ Due

At the first meeting with Senito Fernandez, Erand also saw Nelson Iglesias,
University student, and son of Jesus Iglesias. Brand instructed Nelson to start
making some recruitings at the University. Brand also instructed Nelson Iglesia
to make the necessary arrangements so Brand could have a meeting with Jose Fer:
Planas and Eddy Crews, members of the Catholic Youth, students at the Universit:
Havana and menbers ot MRR (Artime's faction). Brand gave Nelson one hundred peso

. for expenses. . oo.

_ A week after their first meeting, Brand saw Cesar Lancis again. Cesar said tH
had been making some contactewith different unions. He also explained that up t
that time he had been working with Tony Varona'’s groups named “Rescate”. He exp
his concern gbout the double role he was playing, working with Rescate at the sal:
time that he WF ng with Brand. Lancia said that in due course he could bring
friends in Rescate to Brand's organizations Brand said that a week had elapsed.

' no results had been attained and that hs wanted results. Lancis said that he was)

anniversary of Trejo's death.They said their chances were slight, because they
could not burn the people they had at the University in that kind of action. He

 

Benito Fernandez saw Brand again. He said that he had talked with his brother]: #
who had been a Mayor in Santiago de Cuba. He had also talked with Luis Casero G
who had also been a Mayor in Santiago de Cuba. They both promised him to start
searching for D.Zs. and L.Z3. in the southern coast of the Province of Orient 4.
Brand also saw Nelson Iglesias again. He said it had been difficult to recor
. people at the University, because everyone seemed toe belon: already to one organi
or another. Nevertheless, he said, he had a group of aro’ ten students who wer
_ Willing to work with him, though somes of them already belonged fo Rescate. He ha
iti contact with a boy named Solis, who was heading Rescate's group at the Univer
oye Around these days, Joe, a member of the Company whom Brand had met in Washing
bre*" came to visit Brand af Brand's safenouse. He said that they weren't interested |
anymore in getting people out of Cuba to be properly trained. He promised to. giv
Brand some contacts which would help Brand in his activities. Thess promises wer
kept, and Brand cade some contacts which will be referred to in due course.
 

eh gente a emenne nent nage a pe nN nee

fo4-f0f000428]

 

BRAND
November 15/60

On_August 5/60, at 7 a.mw., Brand made contact with Brand
told that he wanted to see Amparo (Plinio's wife), in order to debrief her

on the actual situation of OA's groups. That same afternoon Brand saw Amparoe
Amparo informed Brand of all the arrests that had taken place after Plinio's
escapes from El Escambray. In regard to OA's groups in Havana, Amparo told Brand
that Efren Rodriguez, member of the Executive Commitee of the OA,was in a safe
house in Havana, and was the man who could brief Brand on Q@A's situation.

On August 6/60, Brand saw Efren Rodriguez. Efren informed Brand that, on
account of Abay and Penela's asylum at the Embassy of Brasil, contacts had been
lost with the action groups of OA. Efren was completely out of money. Brand gave
him $130.00 and instructed him to establish contact with Oa! 3 action groups. Efr
agreed to do this.

Brand had to remain in his safe house for the next ten days, because no glue
or moustaches had hesn sent to him, and he had no materials for his disguise.
Meanwhile, Plinio had arrived to Favana, and had established conbact with Stren
and other members of the underground.
gave Brand a man to be used as a driver or as a cut-out.
This wan is named Montes. After receiving the disguise materials, Brand establis
contact with Jasus Izlesias, former member of Triple A, and Brand's fellow consp
for many years. Islesias owned a 50 ft. yacht. Brand asked Iglesia‘s help to use
his yacht to smuggle weapons into Cubase Iglesias was in very low spirits. He sai
that it was useless for the cubana to fight Fidel, since Fidel had a powerful bad, 3:
from the Soviet Union, and that unless the UseS. decided to do something about it
our efforts were doomed to failure. In short, Iglesias refused to help.

Next, Brand established contact with Cesar Lancis Bravo. Cesar agreed to help
Brand instructed Cesar to start looking for D.2s. and L.Zs. Besides, Cesar was +
start organizing laborers in the different Unions, and to try to gather informat
from all of them. Cesar also volunteered to make contacts with policemen in the
patrol cars, in order to find out the codes they were using in their radio
communications. He-also promised to Start a search for safe houses and store hou
and to start checking Fidel through the members of the Sindicato Gastronomico.. I
that first meetinz, Brand gave Cesar.jone thousand PESOS» to be used for expenses
for the renting of houses.

Next, Brand mad@contact with Benito Fernandez. Benito said that he Was eager
help and that all of us had to give pur best to overcome our country's situation
Benito offered his efforts to try fo; find D.Zs. and L.Zs. Besides, he volunteere
to do some recruiting. Benito informed Brand that he Had an action group of abou
fifteen men, already armed.

Contact was made with Dr. Helio Nardo Basz. Nardo informed brand that he had
already been aproached by veople fron MRR and By Lomberto Diaz, acting the latte.
as representative from Tony Varona's, group: Nardo had refused to work with them.
Brand asked Nardo to take care of tht Province of Pinar del Rio as a leader of a
new underground group, of which he te going to be one of the leadsrs. Nardo azgr
to this, and promised to start lookdag for D.Zs. and L.Zs.. and also promissd to
take care of the recruiting of peopelin the Province of Pinar del Rio. He uentio
thet he had a friend who had been a lieutenent in the rebel army, and who had au
his position because of the communi sf tendencies of the Government. He told sran
that this ex-lieutenent could become'a valuable asset if won to our side. He sai
he was zoing to try to bring this ma | to talk with Brand. brand zavs Nardo five
ness, for exvenses. |

 

 

 

   
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   

 

 
74-00000

   
   
    
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
    

a : ( a ur ¢ , oa

 

Brand had been asking to see Plinio. Plinio aldo had been asking to see Srank 7
Amparo knew about one of, Brand's safehouses. She came one day and told Erand +]
Plinio needed to see him. Next day, Brand went’ to see Plinio. At Plinio's safe E
Brand also met a man named Juan Mendez, also known as Seorge the Pilot or Jose }
Casanovae Mendez waa the head of o group named MAR (Movimiento Anticomunista Re
cionario). Plinio told Brand of his efforts and how pleased he was with the way
things wers going on. Plinio also talked about-hia plans for the inmediate fut
and the meetings he was expe@ting to have in the days to come. In return, Brand
said that ne was also pleasedwith the way things were developing. .

In his next meeting with Brand, Robayna brought a map pointing out a DZ. T
was the first D.Z. that Brand got. Brand gave Robayra a lensatic compass so Roba
could give the exact location of the next D.Zs. he was trying to get.Rabayna was
full of enthusiasm with the outcome of his efforts. All his men were anxious to

"into battle. Robayna gave Brand an estimate of the Weapons he needed for his 15d
That list of weapons was given to the Company in Havana. Robayna also infermed
that in the Province of Pinar del Rio, a majority of the population was in favo
an uprising against Castro. ‘ ; , . ;

~~- It should be said by now that all the meetingsheld by Brand were reported to
the Company in Havana, alzost inmediately after they took place. Brand had been
instructed in Nashington to give g report each weeke Actually, revorts were sive
in many oc@@&sions twice and thrice a weeks ~—=

By this time, Brand had met with "fren Rodriguez in several occasions... Efren
Rodriguez was contacting and organizing action groups to be used in Havana, in ¢)
Gity as well as in the Province. A man by the name of Rutilio Ramos had been eon
by hime This man was to lead the men we were planning to use in an attem g
Fidel's life. efren Rodriguez had also met people who gave him detailed informat.

“on the Government forces in Isle of Pines. Rutilio Ramos also made some reports
this. Contacts were made by Efren Rodriguez with action groups in San Jose de La
Lajas, . ; . Loe . iz

Joe sent Brand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with a mat |
named Alberto Jorge Losada Fernandez, who worked at the Compania de Electricidadt 4
This Losada was one of the leaders of an organization called "Resistencia Agramoy
Though they had: men all around the island, their mein force seemed to be in the ©
Province of Pinar del Rios And what seemed most important of all, they had a gro
of fifty men already in the mountains in Pinar del Rio, in:a place named Rio Hond
In the first meeting with Losada, Brand gave him 500 pesos to be used in the
purchase of supplies for the men already in the mountains. Brand also instructed :
Losada to try to organize groups at the Compania de Electricidad. These groups we
to be used in sabotage atthe Electric Company. Losada agreed to send word to the
leader of the group at the mountains to come to Havana to have a meeting with B;
Losada also agreed to try to find some DeZs. or LeZse~From that day on, Losada q }
the meetings with Brand would take place in two houses he indicated, and which 4
Brand promptly aporoved. . me, _ . ;

Joe sent Brand some instructions that enabled Brand to make contact with a mar
named Vidal Morales, who was to provide the goons that were promised to Brand by
Jim Bowdin. Brand instructed Vidal to organize his men and have them ready for
action to be used when required. Brand also instructed Vidal to start checking
arlos Rafael Rodriguez, a well known communist, and also to give all the informa
he could gather about the top communists:in Cuba. Vidal agreed to this.

' In a meeting with Losada, he informed Brand that the leader of the group at
. Rio Hondo, a man by the name of Lazaro Santos Abrou, had been killed in his way 1:
Havana to see Erand. Brand then told Losada to make arrangements so Brand could:
have a meeting with the man whea had substituted Lazaro Santos. .

Brand had a meeting with Cesar Lancia and Losada, so both men would get in tou| |

ANd waste tarathan $2 2.373 47

        
   
    
 
    
  
  
  
 
74-00000

Priest named Las Heras. Brand went to that meeting and asked this priest to zo ti.

'A few days later, Brand introduced Nardo to Dre Leon Gemus, so Leon would help Ne -

_ Wers given to Robayna, that in the last message that Robayna sent to Brand thro’

 
    
    
  
 

wm bbow : f.

poe : | ae

oo

ma

Pa

instructed Losada not to talk with Lancis about the people in the mountains. Ha

to talk with Lancis only about the laborers at the Electric Company, because Bat

wanted Lancis to organize the labor section of Cuba Libre. . F
'In his next meeting with Brand, Lancis

     
   
  
 
 
    
     
     

en commisioned by Lancis to establish a net of informersl:
Lancis also said that he had received several thousand pesos from Rescate and +
he was willing to returns the thousand pesos that Brand had given him. To this
Brand answered nothing. : . Lo

Around the Ti-fteshth of September, Brand thought he had noticed certain .unud
things around Potin's building, where Brand's safehouse was located. One day,
when Brand was entering the building, he heard a man asking about the people wh po
living at the penthouse of the building. This confirmed Brand's suspicions than}

of Brand's apartment, had been the victim of anextort: on. This had been the unug
atmosphere that Brand had noticed around the building, because that tennant had;
under surveillance by the people whe submitted him to extortion.

Brand went to live for some days at Juan Mendez's place. At this’ safehouse, F ..
met a man named Jorge Espino, who worked with Mendez at MAR. Brand put Espino inf"3
contact with Nardo, so Espine's people in Pinar del Rio: would work under the cui
of Robaynae Espino's military chief in Pinar del Rio was a young man by the nam
Berrios. Brand met. Barrios and introduced him to Robayna.e From then on, Barrios
in contact with Robayna, and working under his command. . : .

Around these days, Brand heard that Mendez was. going to have an interview wit] :

Artemisa, in the Province of Pinar del Rilo, and contact Nardo, so he would provi - ;
Nardo with all the help that the priesthood could afford to give in the province| - &
Pinar del Rio. Brand saw> Nardo and arrangements were made in such a way that Ned:
did see Father Las Heras. From then on, it was their bustheas to keep in touch.
At the meting with Father Las Heras, Brand met a physician named Dr. Leon Lemus

identified himself as a delegate from Organizacion Occidental Anticomunista (OOA

in the Province of Pinar del Rio. Later on, Brand introduced Leon Lemus to Roba:
O0A's military chief in the Province of Pinar del Rio was a young man named Cruz
This Cruz Blanco was introduced to Robayna by Leon Lemus. From ‘then en, Cruz Bla
was to work under the orders of Robayna. It is on account of all these contacts

Nardo, he claimed to have six hundred men under his command. And he said that th:
was a conservative figure. Nardo commented that in order to make~this figure mor
conservative, he would say that Robayna had five hundred men under his command.
figure is accepted by Brand as Zood. . ;
