 

tet ( cau . . of

se : “9 - !
. soe in a oo :
“ Ss aa ‘

. . Aconey files, Unfortunsally: these docoaants appear to be most

diffienLt to locate and relrigve, many of them burled in retired
file holdings. .

 

 
  

          

 

5. Yo should continue to seek information
retire! loyees, aspecially when it appears that they
wes Lnbimebely invoived da tac pact roevenk orowtiebis ds

 

which we are interasted. This should be a selective procass aml
used only when we believe tha retiree could contribute to our
imasdiate ingpiiry. The documented facts, howevar, are still newted
to. answer questions posed tous officially by other Governmant.
entities.

 

 

 

 

 

S-E~C-R-£-T

 

   

(STRAT ORR
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-B-C-R-B +1

 
     

Wile on assassinations,

Ho has no-persenal knowleles
Again, howover, ha gavo me the “street word,"
the Cuban sormunity is Saying

 

apponod.

  
    
   

Traficante, because he is/or will bri ng heat on the Mafia. Tho
reason for Traficante doing it??? Fidel Castro hired him and paid
him well to do it. The vor! is that Trafieante has been cooperalinr
with the DGI and Fidel since he ‘departed Cuba, Fidel wanted Rosseli
killed, because of Rosseli's part in the assassination altempl againat
Fidel, A emphasized that that this is not his theory, but worl
from the street in Miami. .

 

A said C¥S is planning a show
on the "Legacy of the Bay of Pigs," which should ba broadeast in
about. May 1977. CBS has already shot xeanx interviews in Miami,
including ono with Peruyero (above) before he was killed, plus
covering tho aftermath of his assassination. Currently, the CBS
crew is iin Cuba ~ they hops to film the beaches at the Pay of Pirs -
which had been suggested to them by A. & ‘has also been
interviowed and has given his opinions for the TY showing. while

 

surgostion of Ai The fellow behind the show is named CRILE and
he has talked té’_ & / extensivoly. According to’ A } the show
would have boan very anti-Azeney in its comments, but he a}
has turnsd this around almost 180 degrees!t! As planned, the

show will be two hours and shown in May 1977. .

k. Brigade 2506: On the Brigado, -A& said he had been
an apolitical organization. Individuals of any political shade had
been members and politica had not really entered Brigade Association
business. Last yoar, however, they joined with Orlando BOSCH, among
others, to help form CORU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished
they had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana
bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the
Brigade Association, which A jconsiders a shame. On the CBS film
(above), A ‘said he was filmed attending an anniversary meating.
Thiks same meeting was where CBS filmed Peyuyero.

1. A & DEA: when A ‘retired from the Arency, he
moved to Key Wast. He came to the attention of DUA, especially to
Lou Conine, an ex~Agency 6fficer now with DEA. A ‘calls Conine
an SOB and.worse. He went, into a long explaination of his activitios
with DEA in Key West. -In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of
informants, Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left
dangling on a’string in Key West. He had to leave town within 24
hours and left his people (informants) there without calling or
warning then, As a result, he lost friends, prestige with his
informants (many of them Cyban exiles) and his business in Key West.
In peneral terms, he was treated very shabbily by D&A and regrots
ever having mixed with them. He is still in contact with one of

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

 

  

. : pee “ oy .
our oneal Cicer, ve » Accontin: to

reburuing to the Asensy shortly. ] fis
operabion in Kay est

    

, feo) will he
familiar with the
Another ex-Arency amploves

 

 

     
 

also in-

           

 

 

volved in this operalion, ono _& The anders

Jom Vielaai - he gas oa vonkeach over oat abe: :
DEA he oickly rose to G3-l and was directing the Key “est operatien.
“hen Lt folded, acconling lo A, _f& “was busted to GS-13 an}

   

sent back to hington, where he is ne

sw working in DSA's Inspec
Diviston (similar to our IG

jwas also avare of anothea

      

  
   
 

ox-Agoncy employoa, (for) moog to eo to Mexico under
DEA "deep cover", Accerding to A 4 7 wan Lo ba

 

in assassination opsrations anal
Instead, oe ended up in El Paso for about a year and is
in Miami. The umlersigned personally know oO » ul did
know of his specific assignaent within DEA, (NOTE: ‘while the ve
is a little rambling, this is the way the debriefine of A . vent
‘all afternoon!) . .

Mexican dealers an} pushe

 

 

m, oy Thad road) ®t" rronseriph,
"Tho Bay of Pigs" rbing Washington,  Lyneh explained Ghat
he had dictaled this paper amd had a couple of secretarias type iL
out, Tt is only in very rouch form and he wanted to #ot his thoi
down on paper. As he indicates in the paper, ha wanted to get ti
facts straight, He feels that since he was there and part of the
invasion, he has “a unique vkew point of the Bay of Pires and wants
to see that history reflects his pobition, As indicated earlier,
A is rather bitter arainst the New Frontier, the Kennedys ant
Camelot, This is reflocted in his manuseript, fe claimed that,
much of his papar had been "stolen" in that he explained the invas ion,

   
   

 
  

 

for instance, to the CBS craw and they were using sone of his material.
, J z

3n the soon to kne be shown prostram daseribed above. In addition,
: mentioned that he had spoken to the Agency historian - can't
recall his name - sn who is also writing a book (classified) on the
invasion. As to publication, ib saems to be in the distant future.
fie does not plan to po to a publisher, where he would xex receives
royalty payments of around 5%. Rather, he plans to publish on his
own, ‘probably in Miami, and realize close to 100% profit. It micht
cost him kka in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of
about $30,000 depending on sales.

 

s

  

n, Mise,: Ps also spoko about porsonalitios within the
Agency. He mebtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum"Dum"Dimer, many people in
LAD who had a part in the invasion or JMVAVE. |. A is a member of
the retired Agency employees association that Dave Phillips formed,
As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.
To. me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency,

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting interview,
As far as results, the interview indicated to me that we can eet
broad-brush overviexs from retired Agency employaes, and fow details.
To answer specific quostions from Congress and/or the Department of
Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with documents from

O-H-C-R-E-T

 

Leet meetin s meets me eet
 

 

 

 

 

SaW~C= Rabe P

L? damary lor?”
© $
CONTACT REPORT

HO 3 PR . | former staffer
8/99 Bay Pointe’ Driva

feapa, Flerida 33415

813-859-8619

SUBJECT: Debriefing on Training and Denolitions Given to Anti-
Castro Cuban Exiles

PLACE : Holiday Inn (fampa: Airport )
Tampa, Florida

TINE : + Jamary 1977
0900 - 1445 hours

1. Purpose: To debrief A on questions posed by tha
Department of Justice regarding anti-Castro Cuban exiles. These
questions, in general, covered training and explosives/detonation
deziess given to these exiles.

2. Meeting: A pame Lo my motel room (503) on Friday
morning at 0900 and departed at 1645. During this time, beth of us
satin easy charis in front of a picture widow on the Sth foor - ir.

A id 95% of-the talking. Neither of us got up during this veriod,
a strech of almost 8 hours. A- was most interbaining, bub only
marginally informative as to specific details on the questions prohed
to him. ilo spins a good story and remembers people and places very
well. by bona fides for the meeting vas a call from Ms. Sheila
O'Neil to @ “ja day before I arrived in Tampa. A — is a little
goosy, because of. a DEA connection (below), and checked mp. ont thru
a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used trua
name with wa | ‘

 

3. Results: & fovered the following topics with me:

a. Training: On Panama and the facilities used,& the best
[could remember, Ft. Sherman was open in about August or
September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to 3 month period.
There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIMé followers. When it was
decided a bigger group would be needed, which later became Brigade
2505, these people were sent to Rotalhuleu (Gualemala) xndxmzs in
abont November 1960, Actually, the gronp was split, with some going

to Guatemala and others. to.the New.Orleans. area, As to other training

in Panama, & \has no knowledge. (NOTE: A jsurgested that Mr.

wr Ay Ds retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,
might be a good source. Ax \was C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,
as wo¢l as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JMWAYE at one time. )

S-E-C-R-E-T

i
Tm CLA eel angene? ‘
. ¢
SS
  

Oe 0138-10474

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

- ?
te Pearee,

   

  

 

FORM HQ,
l-67

 

eee

Liye, >

237 Use previous editions

PPG ey Ahaetee.
ee

  

RUSGI

"O: 1976 -— 202-953

oe

  

      
 

 

 

 

aa ob. Supplies: As to explosives, time delay fses, remote
conLrel dovisas, detonation miterials, ele. eiven Lo bhasa exilos,

-b lsaid, “Look over the supply manual for thal time," Apparent by
the exiles were given everything that was available and in larice
quantities, & {said ha just could not bagin to give me a list

of what had bean passed,

  
  

  

 

 

’

   
 

ec; foams: After the Bay of Pies invasion, aX |
worked with 4 wrabion teams. Tha Ageney worked with these tears
from roughly 1963 to 1956. Thay were in two cabapyories. Tho first
wore unilateral teams, traintny and sponsored by the ney. The
other calayory was "political" toans - that is political groups in
soutthern Florida who were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba,
The Agency helped this later m catanory by riving them supplias,
Tn the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba. The
unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, and
another group would pick it up and use it (compartnentabion).
In some cases, teams, (both unilateral and political) would not
actually make the cache and keep the material in Florida, to be
used later at their own convenience, In addition,  && {was positive
that some of Castro's troops obtained some of thesa caches, due to
foul-ups and snitches. These caches containes pistols, rifles and
heavier, money and demolitions. Some of the teams cheated by RBoing
to the Bahamas and buryinh their stuff on small islands and reporting
back to Florida that they had cached in Cuba, A stated several
times that there was no effective control over the “political”
groups and therefore no control ofer the material riven them, Fron
this, me may surmige that Agency equipment (demolition included) was
in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as well as
‘Castro's Rebel Army on-island.

 

 

d. . Brigade. Training:...Further to demolition. training. to .-
Anti-Castro Cubans, A reminded me that shortly after the Brirade
was ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Palm Beach
and talked with President Kennedy. At that time, the US Govt offered
Brigade members the chance to join the U.S. army. This also included
infil team members, who were completely seperate from the Brigade, and
members of the Brigade airforce. The Army end of this training was —
given at Ft. Benning, Georzia and bepan in early 1963. There, Srirade
members entered the U.S. Army at roukly equivalent ranks - officers
were made end Lts, They received Ranger training, plus. jump trainine.

Thus, A said, if any exiles were training in demolations and related

topics, théte best training was probably mivon at Ft. Benning. Most
of these men were in the U.S. Army for oither 6 months or one year.

®. Cubana Bombing: & was specifically asked about the

6 October 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Garibbean.

A i said the street-word among the Cuban community in south Florida
-is that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground. The
bombers did not mean to kill all of those people. On BOSCH, the ;
community does not particularly like him, but admires him because he
had been going at Castro tooth and nail for years. They do not Like
the idea of terrorism and fault BOSCH and MORALES for this.

$-E-C-R-B-T

 

 

 

 

 

ae ne

|
i
i

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oa  € ye le ¢

  

Swine JA had read tha recent arlicles in the
papers about the i jon of Swing Faver into Cuba by tho Ac
in 1972. Moe had no knowledma of this. Ayo did as Af wo had
checkedl with DIA??7 “Ho id when he had boen with the Army as a:
Ss ial Forces type, it unbelteveable what the Army had dope
3 WE etaining in ine States. ue mentioned an fo
ka training exerciso in HYC, when a fake substance was inta- 7
duced into the water of a hotel where Pres, ®isenhoxver was stayin,

In any event, kyo & said if Seine Fever ha n introduced
into Cuba, he wouldn't doubt that the Armmy/DIA had some hand in ity
espocially if the so-called sources claimed it cama out ef Fb. Galiek,

eo ¢ C. Swine

 

 

 

  
   

  
  

Of log thaws).
Ve iG Wada

  

 

  
 

ef. Assassinations by the Agency: & said he had absolutely
no Knowledge of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in the
Agency during his tour. Mot only wera they prohibited by thea Agency,
they were counter-productive, Tk was explained to him during his
Agency tour that! there was a good chance of an assassination back-
firing; that we (U.S,) are more vulnurable to a: stnations than
the Cubans or Soviets. Therefore, as far as he was concorned, they
vere strictly verboton. Editorializine, A ‘said it was too bad
that the upper-echolonsdid not believe in this restriction, On top”
of that, they approacherl mafiosa to help them. (NOTE: A ‘is
rather anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shout in: .
match during a hearing on the Bay of Pigs invasion. )

 

   

  

 

h. Assassination of Paruyero: Juan Jose Pernyero, a Bay
of Pigs veteran and leader of the B igade 2506, was runned down
week as he left his homa in Miami. A /said tho word on the streal
anion the whan, community is that this was done by the DGl as a warniny
to the anti-Cubans in Miami, Feruyero had no enemies - he was not
into drugs, crime, politics, etc. By killing him, the Cubans vere
warning the community that they could strike anywhere and anyone,

Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens. If anyono else

   

 

 

 

-had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed en

the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, ete. A copy of an editorial
from the Tampa‘ Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

5-E-C--R-E-T

5

 
