 

y
i
By
Fa

 

 

WARNING NOTICE |.
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND °
METHODS INVOLVED

    

oT ooo. SECRET

     
    
 

b. The CIA Station in Canberra, on 27 November, furnished
all available information on the 1962 telephone call. It appears
that source on that occasion stated that "Iron Curtain Countries"
planned to pay a hundred thousand dollars for the assassination
of President Kennedy. |

c. On 27 November, the CIA Canberra Station also furnished |:
complete detail on the anonymous telephone call of 23 November 1963.

d. On 29 November, CIA disseminated this information, as
supplied by its Canberra Station, to the White House, Department:
‘of State, and Federal Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to the
Secret Service. A copy of this dissemination in its exact text
is attached to this memorandum.

4, The CIA Station in Canberra arranged for discussion of the

calls | Inthe opinion of the
Australian authorities, the caller was a crank. In any event, they

were not able to identify any Polish employee of the Soviet Embassy,
the automobile described by the caller as the one he drove, or the
license plate number given by him. No further information on this

call has been received. Available evidence would tend to show that

the caller was some type of crank. This conclusion, however, cannot —
be confirmed.

 

5. Please note that the nature of the information in this
memorandum and its attachment requires the use of a sensitivity
indicator.

Richard Helms :
Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

WARNING NOTICE .

-2- . GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

SECRET fea METHODS INYO 7h

 

 
 

j
£

Beane ned ed

 

 

      
   

an . OLLARI “ISITIVE SOURCES AND
. METHODS INVOI VED
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 23, D.C,

22 may 1964 af

Commission No.

G7

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT: Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States
. ' Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to
Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

1. I refer again to paragraph two of your memorandum,
dated 12 February 1964, relative to disseminations to the Secret
Service made by CIA.

' 2, On 24 November 1963, CIA received from the Department
of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra,
Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgraded to Secret),
reporting a telephone conversation the previous day with an
anonymous individual who had described himself as a Polish
chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy in that city. This individual,
while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched
on the possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the
assassination of President Kennedy. Reference was made in this
cable to the receipt of a similar anonymous telephone call on
15 October 1962.

3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the
following action:

a. Cabled to Canberra asking full details of the
telephone conversation of 23 November and the call made
on 15 October 1962. It should be noted that CLA had not
previously known of the 1962 telephone call.

   
 

 
  

“WARNING NOTICE .
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED -

exclused ‘tea 1 automate
downgrading and
SECRET ann etassitication

 

sa: ram Eoe ete net

 
ae SECRET

_ to the White House, Department of State and Federal Bureau of

     
 

  

“ TVARNING NOTICE.
~ geNSITIVE SOURCES AND

Wa

OUT Teletype No. 85691, dated 29 November 1963, filed at 117 hours,

     

Commission No.

Investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service

1. Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone
calls made to the office of the U.S. Naval Attache in Canberra,
Australia, by a man claiming to have had knowledge about a Soviet
plot to assassinate the late President Kennedy. Our first record
of this matter is a Naval Attache cable from Canberra sent on
24 November 1963.

2. It appears that the caller, who professes. to be the Polish
chauffeur of a Soviet Embassy car in Canberra, first phoned in
over a year ago, on 15 October 1962 repeat 1962. At that time he
told a story about five Soviet. submarines carrying 400 to 500 Soviet
soldiers on their way to Cuba. One purpose of this troop movement,
he said, was to support the Governor of Mississippi. He added that
there was a plot to pay one hundred thousand dollars to «ill President
Kennedy. Behind the plot, he said, were the ‘Iron Curtain Countries,"
and "Communist men in England, Hong Kong and probably some other
countries."

3. On 23 November 1963 repeat 1963, the day after the ©
assassination of President Kennedy and over a year after the first
telephone call, a man believed to be the same person phoned the
Embassy again and spoke to the assistant Naval Attache. The caller
referred to his call a year back and stated he had said that the USSR
had put up 100,000 dollars for the assassination of President Kennedy.

 

4. Giving what he claimed were further details about the
assassination, the caller said that about two weeks before (which
would have been in early November 1963) he was present when an
Australian man, 35 to 40 years old, and tall, was dispatched by
the Soviets to the United States carrying a case about 35 to 40
centimeters long, 50 centimeters high, and 8.5 centimeters wide.
The name Vasyl Two was used in sorne connection with this man.
He was put on a plane in Sydney and while the caller drove the two
Soviet escorts back to Canberra, their shortwave radio in the car
was going constantly. A shortwave radio was going in the Embassy

Exalted tan iutanat

, WARNING NOTICE
Seen ey [eee downgrading and ‘ SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
Sil Occlassifice! canna Cassiticeten

METHODS INVOLVED

 

 
 

T WARNING NOTICE
“SG .- SENSITIVE SOURCES AND |
METHODS INVOLVED

        

also when they arrived there.. Over these radios, one of these Soviets
transmitted numbers and "points.'' They remained in the Embassy, and
that morning (apparently 23 November 1963), a message came through
and toasts were drunk in Russian Vodka and the Russians present said,
"we have achieved what we want."

5. The caller then gave "information" about the Soviet role
in sinking a U.S. Navy nuclear submarine and on Soviet subversion in
Indonesia, He would not identify himself, and when he described the
car he drives (as a navy blue 1952 Buick, license plate New South Wales _.

- CCC 0122) he added they often change plates, have fifty sets in reserve, -

and can change them in five seconds.

6. The caller added some vague information about a woman
employee of the American Embassy he things works for the Soviets.
The conversation concluded with the caller promising to write a letter
to the Naval Attache at the American Embassy.

7. The caller spoke good English and his accent and voice did
not change throughout the conversation, so it was assumed that he
was not disguising his voice.

8. Australian authorities working on this case consider the
caller to be a crank. They state that Soviet offices in Australia
do not use anything but Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of
their using a Polish chauffeur. They are continuing their investigation.

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED

 

SEGA ET sre ‘ten Pica WARNING NOTIC
-Z-

 

ame
