13-00000

TOP SECRET. ah

 

WATCH REPORT -
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

   

No. i713 | ne 22 April 1964

 

Conclusions ra

No Communist country intends to initiate direct military action in the
immediate future oon ee the United States its 0 overseas forces OF its Allies. (TOP

  

|
Loos: The intemal s situation remains highly unsteble. The situation Is |
favorable for Communist gains, but we have thus far discemed no Communist mili-
| ‘tary reaction. (TOP SECRET) ee 2 Ae
i

 

yf : . , .
‘Bloc International Developments

The celebration this week of Khrushchev's 70th birthday provided a plat-
form for the other Soviet and pro-Soviet East European leaders to declare their support
‘for Khrushchev's policies ond program. There appears to be no serious domestic
‘challenge to his position and he has demonstrated a clear intention to continue to
carry his full burdens of leadership. Khrushchev's announcement on 20 April of a
‘cut in Soviet production of fissionable materials also suggests that he intends to

continue policies designed to convey a sense of reduced East-West tensions. |
(CONFIDENTIAL)

 

| Reports from refugees who arrived in Hong Kong from Sinkiang Province
of China on 12 April provide evidence that the Chinese Communists have a systematic
program for resettling local inhabitants inland along the entire length of at least the
. Sinkiang frontier and have established a 20-mile deep security zone. The refugees*
report of substantial Chinese troop reinforcements to Sinkiang, however, has not been
confirmed | by available evidence. (SECRET)

 

 

\eritical Areos Be

|

1. Cuba: Fidel Castro's 19 April speech on the third anniversary of f the Bay

of Pigs and President Dorticos' speech the following day appear to mark the Initiation -
of a new Cuban diplomatic offensive against the US. The Cuban notes of 21 April
indicate that continued US overflights and US occupancy of Guantanamo will be

the chief targets of this diplomatic drive. Castro singled out alleged US provocations

 

‘TOP SECRET
    

 
  

TOP SECRET 22 April 1964

at the Guantanamo naval base for special treatment ond the next day Dorticos con-
demned continuing violations of Cuban air space. Castro stated that Cuba refused

to sanction or legalize these provocations and overflights and wamed that the limits
of patience are being “dangerously violated." Fidel indicated a willingness to
utilize the forum of international opinion to publicize these provocations, but at the
same time called for increased combat preparedness of his military forces to resist
“physical aggressions" against Cuba "cost what it will and come what may." (CON-
FIDENTIAL)

aw

ao Loe ee a eee =

[pn “A Cuban defector who had been ‘assigned toa SAM ‘complex i in Pinar del
{ Rio Provinee has reported that an cli-Cuban crew was to be selected in May for an
actual firing of a surface-to-air missile against a drone target. He stated that if
the firing was successful, and the torget was destroyed, it would signal the tumover \
of control to the Cubans and the withdrawal of most of the Soviet SAM personnel.
(SECRET) |
it
i

 

rr Vietnam: The Viet Cong are maintaining heavy pressure on govemment

torces in the Delta. Some of the recent attacks have been within 10 miles of Saigon |.
|| and an increasing number of them occurred during daylight hours when the Viet Cong |
are most vulnerable. (CONFIDENTIAL) |
I i
| 3. Laos: The intemal situation remains highly unstable following the break-
| down of the tripartite discussions at the Plaine des Jarres and the ensuing right-wing
military coup attempt in Vientiane on 19 April. There is a danger of further precipi- ||
tate action by right-wing elements. (SECRET) I]

 

| other than the expected propaganda, and they probably consider it to their ad-
vantage to maintain a wait-and-see attitude. if the coalition govemment should
i| collapse or be removed, the Communists may move to establish a separate “liberation” |

 

Thus far, there has been no discemible reaction from the Communists,
|

° | goverment. There have been a number of reports since last December that the
Pathet Lao and dissident neutralists have made plans, with Chinese Communist and

 

North Vietnamese backing, for the establishment of such a government in Phong

Saly Province should the Souvanna government collapse or become too closely |

committed to the right-wing faction. We have noted o number of other Communist |
|

 

\_ moves in recent months which could enable the Communists to exploit a collapse
yet the coalition government. (SECRET)

oe epeianes . /

 

 

TAP SFCRET
13-00000

. - AFNINDC, TSC~76-64 TSC~76-64
. Hq:, USAF t—~C~S
-WATCH REPORT

of the a °
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

 

  

No. For)

 

a 2 January 1964
ae

 

| immediate future. (TOP SECRET)
i

Bloc Intemational Developments

| Soviet Bloc developments are included in relevant sections below. (CON-
FIDENTIAL)

Critical Areas

   
  
 

; : Berlin and Germany: The Soviet shootdown of a USAF T-39 over East Germany |
| on 28 January occurred when the US plane became lost during a routine instrument train-
ing flight over West Germany. This is the first such shootdown of an Allied aircraft over
| East Germany since 1953, although there have been numerous inadvertent overflight
| violations in the interim. The 28 January incident followed a Soviet waming on 25
January that US violations of the alr corridors would "lead to hard, undesirable conse-

NY | quences." The incident Indicates at least continued Soviet sensitivity both to border

violations by Westem aircraft and to any appearance of Soviet weakness on the German |

! i

i scene. (SECRET)
i

;

|

2. Cuba: There hes been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces In
Cuba during the past week. (SECRET)
i

|

|

 

The 22 Jonuary Soviet-Cuban communique reiterated previously stated Soviet
commitments to defend Cuba In the event of an invasion by the United States. Mention
- of Marshals Malinovskiy and Grechko, as well as Cuban military personnel, among the

- participants i in the Soviet-Cuban talks makes it a virtual certainty that military matters
were discussed. (SECRET)

'

i ;
3. Vietnam: Viet Cong activity has increased somewhat, notably In the intensity |
| of armed attacks, but terrorism continues to comprise the bulk of their effort to control
| the population. The situation in the Mekong delta and certain other areas remains

| | ctitical, and the government is in a race against time to devise effective counter-

| insurgency measures. However, in several provinces where able province chiefs have

been recently installed and military securi achieved, lar morale appears to have
LInpreved..6 (SECREN) Y ‘a pore

 
   
   

 

oe eet

TOP SECRET
13-00000

TOP SECRET

Khrushchev on 17 Jonuary at Kalinin followed a strong condemnation of the
US position in Panama with a pointed reference to the US naval base at Guantanamo as
"Cuban soil" that "must belong to Cuba." He again reiterated Soviet support for Castro's
"five points,” strongly stated Soviet willingness to defend Cuba and emphasized that —
President Kennedy's "no-invasion" pledge was binding on the new US administration.
While these remarks may have been primarily designed to reassure Castro, these repeated
public statements of support tend to make the Soviet commitment to Cuba more binding.

(CONFIDENTIAL)

 

3. _/F Communist Chine: The authori tative Chinese Communist newspaper, People's a

|

|

ae oe
‘Daily, has echoed Mao Tse-tung's 12 January call for a global struggle on the broadest
i | possible scale against "US imperialist aggression." People's Daily said all forces in the
world including the American people but excluding Ue imperialism and Its lackeys"
| | should form the united front. Asa further reflection of Communist China's announced
implacable hostility toward the United States, Peiping is conducting a protest campaign
| against US actions in Panema which now rivals and may exceed in magnitude and intensity
; , a similar campaign against the US during the Cubanictisis.. While it is less intense than
| ‘at the time of the American landing in Lebanon in 1958, it appears to be part of a de-
| liberate program to generate widespread anti-US hostility among the Chinese population.

) (CONFIDENTIAL)

(ia, Vietnam: Viet Cong armed attacks continue at a reduced level. The Com-
, | munists, however, are sustaining a high level of harassing and terrorist activity aimed
! | at sapping the resistance of the rural population and paramilitary forces. The focus of
| 1 Viet Cong activity remains the delta, but we note that the slow but gradual buildup of

| Viet Cong numerical and organizational strength is also continuing in the Communist
| Milltary Region V, the northernmost region of South Vietnam. The scale of this buildup,
| : in contrast to the low level of Viet Cong activity in this area, suggests a future stepup

| of Viet Cong attacks in the north. (SECRET)
|

| At the second Congress of the Communist-sponsored Liberation Front, held
| In early January, the chairman stated that the civil war had “entered a new and .

i brilliant phase," but continued to caution that the struggle would be “protracted. *

' (CONFIDENTIAL)

i The military junta continues to be disturbed over talk of a neutralist solution
\ for South Viemam. Reports of impending French recognition of Communist China have
\ | apparently also caused a stir in South Vietnamese official circles. (CONFIDENTIAL)
| :

| | 5. Laos; Action is continuing in the Na Kay area north of Nhommarath.

. Communist forces appear to have made some further gains west of Kham Keut although

\
|
it

 

\ the situation in the Na Kay plateau area apparently remains generally unchanged.
a Kay plateau area apparently remains generally ed.

ne : __ oe ee,

 

Neon = —
2

 

TAD SECRET

 
13-00000

 

TOP SEGRE sespssses

_ WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

 

No./6967 . 24 December 1963 |
Conclusion ; |

 

!No Communist Bloc country intends to leltiote direct milita ection in oa I
<the immediate future. (TOP ‘SECRE!) Ss

Ne

  

Bloc International Developments

The Soviets, while attempting to assess the new leadership in the US
since the assassination of President Kennedy, have avoided raising new frictions in
Soviet-US relations. They have simultaneously been devoting considerable attention
to their domestic.economic problems and to intra-bloc relations. However, we have
noted no significant alteration in their major foreign policy goals vis-a-vis the West
and we note that Khrushchev has recently reaffirmed Soviet support for “national
liberation" movements and has reiterated Soviet “warnings” against a US attack on
Cuba. (SECRET)

Soviet Bloc Military Developments

a ee ene

——----A-further-analysts-of- the: Soviet- 1964-65; planand related information leads |
|

 

a

|

|

| ys to believe that the chemical program will have a limited but significant effect on
defense procurement during the next two years. (SECRET)
\

|
\ Gritteal Areas ; |
|
° Berlin and Germa The possibility continues of incldents arlsing from
the large number of West Berliners visiting East Berlin during the holidays. Increased

numbers of East German security and military units have been noted otong the Wall
ih appears to be precautionary measures. (SECRET)

2. - Cuba: No elgnificant change in the status of Soviet forces in Cuba has

i

been noted during the past week. (SECRET)

 

 

   

|
“| The Soviet cargo ship Krasnoye a, which arrived at Martel around
15 December, rope ported! unlooded ee ae SECRETE ,

   

 

TAD CEPDET
TOP SECRET Seip octane TSC-56-64

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

 

san? .

No. 700_. 22 Jonvary 1964
— mn)

! Conclusion — >

es

 

 

i

immediate future. (TOP SECRET)

 

Bloc international Developments

Sino-Soviet Bloc policy developments are included in the relevant sections
below. (CONFIDENTIAL)

Soviet Bloc Military Developments oo.

Bloc ground force activity continues to reflect winter training on a scale
generally comparable with that noted last year at this time. The first restriction this \
year on travel of the Allied Military Liaison Missions in East Germany has been imposed
for the period 19-26 January in en area west of Berlin which includes the Letzlinger
Heide-Elbe River North trainisg areas. The restriction is probably intended to screen
an East German field exercise, possioly i involving elements of both military districts.

 

 

 

 

| (ecrEN ae _ nny,

 

Critical Areas

1. ¢ Berlin and Germany: Ulbricht's latest { proposal for a nuclear-free Germany, |
supplementing Khrushchev's end=of-the-yéar world-wide peace proposal; “appears to be’ |
largely a propaganda play to boost East Germany's political status. The East German \ |
| regime has kept open negotiations on a new pass agreement and the prospect is for pro=
tracted and difficult talks. The East Germans have already tried to expand the scope of | |
the talks and, as part of their negotiating position, have posed conditions they know to i
‘be unacceptable to the West Berlin Senat. The Communists will wont to keep the nego- | |
tiations alive, however, if only to secure tacit Westem acceptance of the principle of
“direct talks between the Senat and East Germans. (SECRED

 

|

|

| The rotation of a US battalion to and from Berlin, concluded on 16 Jenvary, | |
\ brought r no > Soviet or | oF East “German interference j= (CONFIDENTIAL)

 

2. Cuba: There has been no significant change in the status of Soviet forces in
Cuba. (SECRET)

TAP SFERET
13-00000

To: Barry

 

From: Michelle

Re: Watch Committee Reports

Barty,

I read through the reports and marked paragraphs relevant to the assassination in six of
the eight reports. The Board almost certainly will want these relevant paragraphs

. released in full. Given that these six reports constitute only eleven total pages and that

the information in them is now consigned to the pages of history, it would be nice to have
the entire reports reviewed for release. If this creates a sensitivity or speed-in-processing
problem, see the attached draft memo. I don’t know if Jeremy will go for the memo as a
full response to CIA-IR-23. If CIA will not release the six reports with reasonabte
redactions, would you check with Kathy Dyer to see ifmy memo is unclassified. Let

me know.

ee
104-10336-10022

 

 

    

  

  
 
 
  
 

CHA T2-23 .
no T CRA Ct
DRAFT prthe. uit, hoes bent
;
. . . ed hee fle. ’
Memorandum mA J
DETLASS
ruary RELEASE < Oh
February 9, 1998 IN THIS DO
To: Jeremy Gunn - 4. 2 GS
Executive Director .
Adtaof)
ce: Bob Skwirot |
CIA Coordinator Miche Coshe
2S~2-9¢
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review -
Subject: CIA¢IR-23 Watch Reports of the United States Intelligence Board

In response to informal request CIA-IR-23, CIA has searched the records of the National
Intelligence Program Evaluation Staff (NIPE), including the United States Intelligence
Board Watch Reports, action memorandums, meeting minutes, and chronological files,
for the period January 1963 to May 1964 for information relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy.

The search produced eight United States Intelligence Board Watch Reports from the
period 27 November 1963 - 27 May 1964. I have reviewed these eight documents,
consisting of 14 pages, and have marked portions of six reports as assassination records:
27 November 1963, 24 December 1963, 22 January 1964, 22 April 1964, 29 April 1964,
and 20 May 1964.

Like the President’s Intelligence Checklist and the President’s Daily Brief, these _
documents cover multiple topics. I recommend that the portions of the document not
deemed related to the Kennedy assassination be declared NBR and redacted.

Once the six marked reports have been included for processing as assassination records,
this response is complete.

DRAFT
13-00000

 

AFNINDC, TSC-796-63.
Hq., USAF ; a

WATCH REPORT
of the
UNITEO STATES INTELLIGENCE BOARD

No. 692) "27 November.1963

Conclusion

 

 
 

[teamediate F future. (TOP SECRET) oe

, t. Bloc Intemational Developments

The Soviet Bloc does not appear to have taken any new initiatives in the past
few days, and it has already issued several unofficial but guardedly hopeful comments.
Soviet Bloc news media continue to reflect Moscow's concern lest a dangerous contro-
versy result from allegations that Cswald's acts were motivated by his Marxist political
orientation. (CONFIDENTIAL)

The Sino-Soviet dispute continues to be treated with restraint by the USSR,
while the Chinese demonstrate n> signs of moderating their public polemics ogainst
Soviet policies. (CONFIDENTIAL)

. Soviet Bloc Military Developments

We have discerned no Soviet or Eastern European Satellite military reaction
to the assassination of President Kennedy. A relatively low level of training, con-
sidered normal for this season, appears to be continuing. (SECRET)

 

 

t itt. C Critical Areas ?
—_—_—

‘To ] {Berlin and Germany: The Soviet note of 21 November on Autobahn pro-
cedures to Together with the Soviet oral statement of 16 November appeared designed to
énd the previous round of incidents but at the same time reasserted a Soviet claim to
determine Autobahn procedures. Since the underlying issue remains unresolved, the

| new Soviet statement could serve as the sorting. point for a renewal of harassment. /
(SECRED |

 

ral _J Cuba: The concentration of tanks and self-propelled assault guns noted ej
‘photography of of 23 and 24 November at the Loma de Tierra and Managua military”
camps near Havana apparently is in’ preparation for the 1 January celebration of the- >

 

TAD CEPDET
13-00000

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

os —-

| violations of the 1954 Geneva Agreements and declaring their firm support for Cam-

TOP SET

 

 

December for this purpose. seen

3. Sino-Indian Border Conflict: We have noted no significant new develop-
ments. (CONFIDENTIAL

pe

  
 

4, Vietnam: The accelerated tempo of Viet Cong activity continues. Al-
though confirmed figures on North Vietnamese military infiltration into South Vietnam
remain considerably below those of last year, newly acquired reports from prisoners
are continuing to raise the 1963 totals, and we believe that additional infiltrators
will be confirmed as further reports are received. (SECRET)

ee

A renewed North Vietnamese propagonda campaign for the neutralization
of South Vietnam appears to be under way, with Chinese Communist and Soviet support.
For the first time in nearly a year, the Communist-sponsored National Front for the
Liberation of South Vietnam reiterated its support for an intemational guarantee of
Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam, in line with the proposal of Cambodian Premier
Sihanouk. North Vietnamese insistence on the withdrawal of US forces indicates that
Hanoi is not seriously interested in a settlement at this time except on its own terms.
The North Vietnamese premier reportedly professes to see signs of war weariness among
the American people and says his government intends to keep up the pressure In South
Vietnam. (SECRET) ¢ :

    
 
 

 

5. Loos: The "cease-fire" between the neutralists and the Pathet Lao in the
Plaine des Jarres area has proved ineffective and both sides have continued sporadic
artillery firing in the area. Meanwhile, the neutralists have continued their limited
offensive in the Vang Vieng-Ban Namone area along Route 13 north of Vientiane
with apparent success. Pathet Lao units reportedly moved to the west of Route 13 and
possibly are regrouping for a counterattock.. (SECRET)

NBL

There are few signs that the Communists are prepared to make any signifi-
cant concessions toward an agreement. While they appear to be seeking talks between
Souvanna and Souphanouvong, they hove flatly rejected the establishment of joint
patrols fo maintain the cease-fire. Their principal objective apparently is to split |
the Kong Le forces from collaboration with the FAR. (CONFIDENTIAL) ;

 

 

é. Cambodia; Peiping's reaction to Sihanouk's accusations of US subversion
and to the suspension of US aid to Cambodia has been basically cautious, despite state-,
ments of all-out Chinese support against any US-supported invasion of Cambodia.
Peiping's public statements have dealt only with the contingency of armed attack and
have not indicated its attitude toward subversive activity across Cambodia's borders. |
Peiping and Hanoi have made the most of the situation by condemning alleged US a

 

 

 

: bodian "independence « and J neutrality." * (CONFIDENTIAL) ———— }

 

TAD CEPDET
