sp-oovo9

 

 

 

 

B. The military section of the AMIRON organization and
the financial and auditing staff of AMTIKI-1] will be transferred
to AMUUD organization at the earliest practical moment,

CG, Funde will be available to cover the expenses of a small
“caretaker' force to represent AMIRON, preserve records,
answer inquiries,

D, All AMIRON personnel will be kept on the payroll through
May 3let. They will bo so advised on or about | May. ,

E. The $58,000 now budgeted for the operational expenses of
the "Committece" ia being deleted immediately since there is no
longer any need for AMIRON propaganda as such,

F, LICARI should continue to urge AMBUD-1 to give early
thought to his budgetary and personnel needs but should not
confront him with a deadline as we can rock along for the next
two weeks under present arrang:

 

 

‘GERARD DROLLER

APPROVED:

Ub - GP: ADC Lis

Jb. ESTERDINE D. ESTERLINE

C/WH/4

i
 

| 104-10227-10089

i

 

12 April 1961
SUBJECT: Funding of AMIRON and AMBUD Organizations

1. With the launching of the AMBUD organization we are faced
with the immediate need of re-appraising our funding relationship
with AMIRON, If one considers that AMBUD is, for all practical
Purposes, an outgrowth of AMIRON, it would appear completely
logical to expect AMBUD to take over certain functions which were
previously the responsibility of AMIRONas our chosen instrument,

’ For all practical purposes, AMIRON haa served its Purpose and,

now that we have AMBUD, no longer needs to exiat,

2, When AMBUD-1 returned from his viait to the camps, Peter
N. LICARI informed him of the urgent nced for deciding what functions
of the AMIRON organization he wanted to take over. To date, we have
had no word from AMBUD-I on this subject.

3. Since we will probably not be successful in getting the desired
information from AMBUD-1 within the next few days it is believed
that the following would be the most practical approach to the problem
of interim financing of the AMBUD organization and the gradual cure
tallment of funds for AMIRON,

A. That LICARI inform AMBUD-1 that the sum of $15, 000
ia being deposited to a separate account to be managed by
AMTIKI-1 separate from regular AMIRON funds, This fund
can be utilized by AMBUD-1 for:

(1) Salaries of a small public relations staff;
(2) Salaries of a small planning staff;

(3) Travel and related expenses of AMBUD members;

(4) Any miscellaneous expenses deemed necessary by
AMBUD-1,
