 

AT taney
ES

MU en ;

Ga March 18, 1863, Luis Balbuena, 908 Southwest
Fagth Gtreet, Miami, a Cuban exile, advised that his brother,
@leng with sone Cubans aad Americans, was involved in gone .
Blue te try and everthrov the Government of wait’. Semehow
ecnanected with this group is aa American, Lorense Hall, also
hkrown as Lawrence Hall, a soldier of fortune, who appears
arrespeasible and at one tine was a member of the Cuban Rebel

Om April &, 1943, the Miami Office reseived a tele«
phone call from a Lorenao Ball, 142 Southwest 2lst Avenue,
% v6, Hiamt, Florida, Hell said he understecd the
FBI, CIA and [NS were trying to locate hia, and he wanted to
report his address,

Qn Howeubear 11, 1963, the source mentioned above said
that Lorenzo Hall, & white male, 23 years to 26 years, 5' 7",
185 pounds, ruddy complexion, is unemployed, indicates he is
frea Les Angeles, California, is always om the move, is in and
Gut o2 Miami, 4 the confidease and type, and it is net known
af he is 4m View’ at the present time. Seurce advised that Hall
Glaimed to have been in the Cubam Rebel Arny, but the ether sere
eenaries in Miami doubt this.

Seurce @aid Hall is leosely connected with Cuban revee
lutionary activities, ehich he uses as a gimmick te try and obtain
noney donations. Im Miami, he is loesely ansociated with Gerald
Patrick Heuming, “Hexican” Larry Howard and *iiliam Housten Bey-
pour, a1] unesployed adveaturers,

Seurce stated Hall and Howard wade a trip te Callie

| fortia several moaths ago in an attempt to collect money by repre-

senting themselves ag representatives of an anti-Castre sovenent.
It is doubtful they collected any sizable amount of money. Their
practice is te contact lecal chapters of the John Birch Society,
Claiming they are anti-communist freedom fighters, and ask for
money t6 carry oa their work, They do obtain sone money this way,
and use the uoney for living expeases.

Lester R. Logue, 623 Meadows Building, Dallas, a geologist. 1%
is unknown if Logue gave them any money, bat he has, in the past,
wade contributions to Miami mercenaries.

> CONFRERTHS

 
[0d 10510-10303

 

Speen ee a sees syne ta iiey muta Fas muematuepee 6

geome

 

~~ CONFIDENTIAL Leowk

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE) | \C

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

The following data supplemcats that contained in
wenorendua under this caption dated October 23, 1963;

LORAN EUGENE HALL

Ca Jul
that im April, 1959, ho was detained by Cuban police in Havana,
Cuba. During his detention he net a Usited States citizen

black hair, said he was fros the State of Kanass, and had served

Rebel Aray Commander. Cienfuegos wanted Hall to train a group
ef mea whe ware going to Participate im am invasion of Hicaragua,

Lisa, lesated acar Havana. Hall said the Ze0d for the trainees
cane frea the Cuban Bilitary Stare Headquarters, ea the orders
ef Clenfueges,

Mire stated that Ball said he was &rrested on April &,
1359, by Cuban authorities, whe alleged Ball was suspected of
being an FSI Agent. Oa Miro’s departure fron Cuba on July 7,
1858, Hall wae still in the custedy ef Cuban Guthorities, but
Mire believed that Ball wag G0ing to be released and deperted
te the United States. .

 

character, and appears to have a criminal background,

COM CINeMrrs |

a ected ary

 
  
  

GROUP et eet Senet

    

Cluded from automatic
lewngradirg and
leelassification

     

es cory © BOUL~ASR YUL

 
74-0000

CePA PUREE
| vy peer oo

On Decenber §, 1963, :seurco . advised Hall has not
bees eecen around Miami fer about a month, and bin proseat where=
aboute is ushaoe.

VILLZAN HOUSTON SEYHOUR

| fhe above source advised that Seynour arrived in
fifami about two yeara ago, during the time Hemming operated a
training camp in the Ylorida Everglades for Cuban exiles. Ssey-
wour ig degcribed as being from Califernia, a white male, about
23 years old, &’ 6” tall, 145 pounds, 11nt¢ brown hair, single,
useuployed, and hin present address im Miami is unknown. On
December 4, 1962, United states Customs, Kiani, arrested Seynour
aad 12 other Americas adventurers at Harathon, Florida, for vic~
istion of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, for con-
epiring to illegally export arms, and Title 22, United States
Code, Section 1934, for illegally exporting arms. On January 21,
1863, Judge David Dyer, United States istrict Court, Hiani,
Gigmissed the above charges.

 

Gource advised the Cuban Revolutionary Coumeil (CRC)
is a unity group of anti-Castre organizations; Manvel Antenis de
Varena, former Prine Minintar of Cuba, is the head of the C2c,
ond we Botifol wags formerly im charge of public rolatioas fer .

Source advised it is a rule of the CRC to mot admit
anerfeans as wembers; many adventurers and mercenaries visit the
CRC, offering their services, but they are always refused. Source
advised that Yarona and‘Geraldo Guecada, Hilitary Chief of the
Cre, personally disliked Hall and Seymour, and will have sothiag

_ to do with thon. :

The following is an PBI Identification Record fer
Seymour t

Willisa
Contributer Wane arrested
of and er Charge Bispositica
Fingerpriats Rum Received
3D Sam Diego Willian Houston 3-21-59 8 burg rel 849 ¢b)
Caliz Seymour #162230 Q1) PC da
. tention only
aot an arrest
PD Rational William Houstea 12-3-89 intex $28.35 fine

Caty Caliz Seymour #21362 .

wo» 3 ow
CONDE TH

 
74-00000

Paenee

i, oe
. :
ATIYTT TS
(oie ial
Contributer Hane

Willian Rousten 12-4-62 viel of US
rust Neutrality

 

“4

CONFIDE AL

 
