  

b. The CLA Statica in Canberra, on 27 Noveraber, furnished
eli available informatica on the 19420 talephone call. Ti assears
that acurce on that occasion stated that “Iron Curtain Countries"
Planned to pay a huadrad thousand dollars for the assassination
of Prveuident Kennedy.

c. On £4? November, the CLA Canberra Station also furnished
comipleta detail on the anonymous telephone cali of 23 Novembar 15653.

d. Gn 29 November, CLA dissaminstad this information, as
supplied by ita Ganberra Station, tothe White House, Department
of State, and Federal Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to the
Secret Service, A capy of this dissemination in ite exact text
ls utjached to this memorsa °

4. The CIA Station in Canberra arranged for discussion of the
calls Tn the opinion of the
Australian authorities, the coklor was a crank. In any evont, they
ware aot able to identity any Polish eraployee of the Goviet Embassy,
the automceblla described by the cxlley as the ona he ‘drove, or tha
lcenss plate number given by hima. Ne further information on this

 

 

 

 

_ call bas been received. Available evidence would tend to show that

the ccller waz some type of crank. This conclusion, however, caunot
be confirmed.

S. Pleace nete that the nature of the information in this
mamorondum and its attachment requires the use of a senoitivity
indicator. ,

 

Richard Kelme
Deputy Divector for Plans

Athchment

 

; ING NOTICE
SENSITIVE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED

     
 

104-40010-10403} -

RR IN
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Leo Rankin
SUBIEST: Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to
Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

1. I vefer again to paragraph two of your memorandum,
dated 12 February 1964, relative to disserainationa to the Secret
Service mada by CIA.

2. On 24 November 1963, CIA received from the Department
of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra,
Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgraded to Secret),
reporting a telephone conversation the previous day with an
andgnymous individual who had described himself sa 3 Polish
chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy in that city. Thie individual,
while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched
on the possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the

' abgascinatioa of President Keanedy, Reference was made in this -

cable to the receipt ofa similar anonymous telephone call on
15 October 1962.

; 3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the
following action:

a. Cabled to Canbsrra asking full detaile of the
telephone conversation of 23 Novernber and the call made ~
on 15 Cctober 1964. It should bo noted that GIA had not pP
previously known of the 1962 telephone call. ‘h

WARING NOTICE
SENSITIVE E £ SOURCES AN
Bee INIVOLVED

 

senate,

Tae |

rey

 
