     

    
   

L.  DIR 03683 (our 80732)

= To 1x1

RB MEXL 537 (IN 3395)
| PEBMISSTON GRANTED,

 

 

   

Orricee

IT 1S FORBIDDEN TO

a eee soe . ae

   

   
       

    

("ca Filled In)

SECRET oe a rr)

Wo. CH327K3

 

MEMORANDUM FOR Chief, wmy/iiflextio |__|

Operational Approval is ‘ereby grantéd in the case of. LIPSTICK-20.

 

 

éated__33 Mar.1956

: OA 4s amended for use as requested in Dive Memo dated 13 Mar 1956, oe
“fhie supersédes OL dated 28 Feb 1955. 7

for the purpose specified in your request. _ ae

 

Project. LIPSTICK.

Tais Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to: this.
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI 10-5 and FR 10-215.

 
  
 
 

 

-“— ed

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIViston

   

    
 
    

Date: 19 Mar 2956

Distribution:
' Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files ;

 

    
     
  

drapes 128 soseuere PeErieas EDs TE:

 
 
14-0000

: Because ofa slaunderoteuting at Headquarters, 36 is reqursted thet

 

 

am. FiGitte 5.203
_ _
ye
t Chief of Station, Hexteo ;
s Galof, 0 a es

= Aéalnistrative Kottera
 Baynond Ry GAEDE

REPEREts Patnab lay ® February 1956

you forward, 68 econ as pecnitle, subject's original cortrest. This
is necded by Finance Divieion for evditing Nation aceaume, As soon’ as

_ your station officially teounse a Clase A otation, te original eontrect
a WA be returaat to you for revert teas

 

 

 

 

 
 

here

 

   

   

 

 

“N
HMA Lgl F
25 July 1956 :
Administrative/Finance me oad Log
Contract of Raynond H. GSRENDE me .
Reference: iM%-3203, 27 June 1956 at ae

i. Forwarded herewith is the origiriat contract of GEREYDS as requested
in reference. . : : oo

2s Inasmuch as subject is now a U.S. Government contract employee, it
is assumd that his Payroll account is: being maintained at Headquarters, there-
fore, unless notified to the contrary, the Station will T/A his monthly field

allotment to Weshirgton.

 
 

 

 

je

4. Sefercnse stated in Fercercph 3 thot it 16 tho usw prosticcfar the oo

Btetios to draw wy cgant contracts. Station Hextco vill orsw wp a cautrect:
the chenges noted sbove Gnd will. exit eodguorters suthorizaticg

“Vafore Sts execution,

Vallerd C. Curtis

10 eet

: ”)
_. 34 Daseber

 

 
   

6, General Comments:

“a matter of Heatquartars record:

" gutlined atoves —

  

 

 

% : seonet (are (Lt PSiicK- 20)

Excerpt from HDA-5523, 2h October 1996, subject: Operational
. LICOOL Operations,

a. BULCUA TER stated that the preparation and casing of potential
targets by the Staion was soma of the best he had over encéuntere’., This’.
conment is apprec ated but it is’ fesired to -ake certain the intividual efforts

 

Le LIPSTICK=19 o.0 oc ee.

 

2. Raymond H, GE22NDS worked an average of fifteen (15) hours
per aay during the tina tho technicians were “ere. He naintaired his
oun operations at their usual efficient level curing this tine and “as
also required to spend mest of each day searching for hard to get Ltess
required by the terhni¢isns. He also spent sany evenings checking, toe
rether with the L- PSTICK team, the movements of the occupants of the
various houses of, interaste :

    

 
   
  
 
  
  
  

7. Comme ndations: ; a
as :

b, It is also requestéd that a notation be placed in the personnel
files of LIPSTICK-19 and SERINE citing their excellent work in this effort as
a

      

 

 

never vee wee fewest hain eis NOEL EER

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
    
   
  
  
 
  

[rd t0219-10004

 

 

FILE TETLE/SUNBLP/VOL

 

BA VAL EZ, anor zr; Feyph
bo 20l/- O18: RZ

 

 

“INCLUSIVE DATES: 7 Aug les — /¢ Dec. WSC
CUSTODIAL UNTT/ LOCATION: OfELD

ro: SDE

 

 

PELETIONS, TP ANY: Mone. ee

 

  
             
    

wat c yt Dy re VT
CELVED IEE Tut thn CPPENY
SEED LE eee ke LE

    
 
   

 

REVIEWED ay HSCAL -

   

   

 
14-0000

 

   

485 Souch oe Btn FOES

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
    

  

Clef, ii Divieton : 49 Leomuber LG
Chef of Stuticn, saxice City
Speratioal
Tagen &, sacri” _
» Reertnce: i941-4.0866, dated 10 Youruory 1956 wos
; de BibJoct lisa been eployod by tation Haxico utnee 18 larch 295) oe :
vos | oma ‘to bo cue ab te eee ae aTeS UY Loyal, henivarsing ond cous peracns od
| 90 employed. “Ea ie : :

 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 

csmeed, under the clrect muerviaion ana @iliuce of the ince:

| Officer, TULL operetionn: ond cdministretive Feaponninility and control uf tha falice

> img apex:tions:
2

GB. LIPTICE -teese:. Anetricts. ts murine te matory Sa tts oases

ments ud bindles baiini strative Botherg with cock dndtvicul. pornos

Saintemineas of the LIPUSLON saitoncvlios cad ‘works

four to six hours par day. Tne subject is

feua witich he poys all oclarios, site

to the LOG operetidan. i te:
fiftem uzys. By recaly
inte & finiuhed repart,

 
    
 

  
  

; b. LIPGEIGE Car 4: the subject instmicte LivSPIG2 4a operations
| deployment of this behihis o tho Se tain Bea bs eta,

: c. LIGMCKLOUTED: the mb! 4a the alteructe cut-out vith LIPSTICK 19”
on tts Sirti a sonans Mh OP Hp Be see rn

   
    

       
  

 

     
  
 

   
    
   

a. LiFSeTosynteynre: The wabJect Frocosses all af the photograykie take
fron thie operation. : oO :

       
   
    
   

@. LIPSTICK /LIAGGi: the subject instructs LO ITALIOR 5 end 6 in the
epee jets of te pion Sd resin el of te ona Mn
£. mp yiers "pring tote SSS ets nm

 
 
   
 
   
 
   

 
 

 

  
 

 

 

 

h. Jretact investig-tiuns: <ne subject invastipntes wdresses, plices,
tad porsuns of interest to. tubs Ctebion. ue Rit develomer into in cotramly Sine
Anvectiuctor.

4. Syst cosignesrts: Ue ie given siny individucl spot essigaents by tis
Kegs Officer end eco lisnss these ttee in yrofersionii munmer.

48 Seury, the subject's princiyal duties ire cdalnistrotion ind ogverctianal dusection \

of tha LLULLLS toca, processing 5 to ) rolls of. 25 oa Tila ach eset, contact:
agente and octing ua eut-cut for cov ese UiTicar, axucting individust kavestig-tisns,
bending cunt advemces, sccountiags em property.

Qe “he subject Le yerfectly covered woeiding for LiTGiic4 19 ae purchising cyant.
ie gpends opyroduactaly tues Wo four hourg per iy worllng oa Bis esver duties.
Dhie cover is believed Ly iil his friends, Jo Giruble und allows cufviciert freedas

fer operutiant activity» “he gubject bus often ayresucl the des to peke b
Lifelong coreer with Jie... his eqtire mouter wie Gitussse with
Avea

Garing bbe recent viel to tite w.clon wl ha suygesiwi thet the subject be
trufaing Gt iccdjvorters to bevter wroptre his for carrying cut his duties. arraiue-
ments royediag the tame Got leach ew thin tradding would caved upd, tawioing
schedules, Us corivel bod the cou Cificer's boss leave and
/ Hesdyuarters ta:dning im burch ona Ape. Sf. Svea the -tutlua's point of view,
Uemucry una February of lys/ would be ta iceol tusc for his trdntac. iaore Zola
for Buovdgervers guidence cn oviline of the materiel chica the Station deabrue ¢
covered in the subject's instruction: (it is sugested thet, insofar ¢a pocihia,.
ee be Lastrusted ca a maiber of u class ruthor the cs ca psclated student undar
the tuboriul systaa. . ‘

be. Clandestine icthods wid Tochmigues. O-k. Th-0C, Bxek -

     
      

santrel ond parsonneal procedures regarding field agents. ,
: G. “arterial yhotography - te include evinced methods for exediting the ©
processing of & large vaizw of negatives cad prints. : 7 .
3. je emaiderction of the cubject'u.dalicated and officiant service, it see
+ weguested tht the cubjoct’s contrsct, trunmaltted es uttechoant to refurcnce, bo
eeemded wa folLlove: - ; .

b. asic Administr-tion - te include tastruction on scommting, property

 

A. Parcgingh 1 entitled, “Vawensation: be chnned fran the presunt figura _ ue

af 95,00 per aumm to 4,525 por ummm.

a | We Peragruph 1D entitied, “Tema” be eiunged to ake the nev contract
. effective us of the date of axacution cn) resin an Zone tor two yorrs from thet.
tee . : .

SECRET .

 

 
  
   
    
  
    
      
    
  
 
 
  
   
     
