 

—_

  

D. shoulsl be examined together with ail
ayvallabls reports so that we may

 

(i) clarify our own objectives aad vishes with
respect to ail the AMLASH group (and this incluces
_ AMVWEIP); :

(2) sort ont which people, if any, are worth our
tims in the future;

i
|

i

t

1 : : |

(3) take aperovriate IwAgAreS, anctludiny inter- :

rogation and polysraphing, to cisrify doubts and . :
then, when necessary, terminate those wha are i
vorking for us but are not worthwhile; '
I

ij

i

t

}

(4) tighten up our ovn operational and seearity
procedures in connection with the AMLSSA group.

    

3. Prelint Analysis: As pointed out in = preliminary
analysis of ths AMGLASH comptes, made in March 1965 when I was
preparing for travel tol dan conection with the Qs
case: "...There ig no convincing evidence that tee proup is.
working either for or against the regive of Fidel CASTHO.
Reports on their contacts with us and their discussions enong  . i
themselves are at variance. In 1962 P:idel CASTRO, reportedly i
knowing that they were plotting ayminst him, talhed to AMLASA-1 i
and seven members of his groag to enlist their aupoort against
Anibal LSCALANTE Dellunde and the communists in Cuba. Possibly
they are playing both ends avainst the middle. @ y certainly

ae 2

    

 

 

  

   

  

have peen and are in contact with the two enda.” ‘Tas olloving
conmeats are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASS conspiracy ~ As detailed by 3715 :
(1H 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-2 reporting on A WEStin,: :

of the AMLASH group, including AlWIP-2 mentioned
significant points: ; :

 

(1) KUBARK was criticized for "

oling neound tor
‘ears without helping and for jeopardizing 2

fo
the operation;

(2) the group was
YORE as xesponsible if the

 

DY s S ;
the resulting scandal would wake
ficoant; and f

(3) AMLASH-3 was
As established by coded message

 

  
  

 

As reported by[_}1532 (IN $2939) on 4 June 2985, based on
reebings with ES2 Dien seen by ds that

 

 

 

 
(ostotse-0725) (

 

  

MEMORANDUM YOR: Chie?, WHD Por Cuba

2

oe

SUBJECT Saplnosa Allegations

i. Sensitivity: Regardless of Brcuracy, they
A. present a problem because o% their having been
pressated to other goyernmaat agencias;

8. in view of matters toncalng on U.S. securitt
are delicate and could have unfavorable Fopercu

if xvyepaaked to newssen by the complainant or his
associates (rhose indepenieat, previous threats were
of greater potential embarrassment);

?s
ssiongy -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. affect the resutations and the security of onxr
personnel at and
2. Action: In view of the foregoing, the allesations
-A. should he pub’ in prover oerspective - i.@., not
ignored because of the potential epbarrassment but
considered in the Jighkh of what we alveady know
{Almost all of them are repetitions of previous
charges aad repgorts, Enown well to both the:
_ and stations and to Headquarters officsFa a
Bottles ene = 3, . Sees ne ot

 

 

 

concerned with the ANLASH grous, whose mem>d
reliability, xeputations and good faith are auestion—
able. Two of the charges - aboutiEarle) and “Porn”
and about AMVHID-1 and CARREZLO - are new.);

  

B. should be treated so as to proteet us against ao

charge of laxity and so aos to establish the facts bu

at the same time, treated so as to avoid aitributisg
ao to them more importance than they deserve;

z

?

 

C. snonid he kept

ebarges which may b

AMLASH yroup to other governnen

other governments ox to revs

connection recall the implied 3

ODYORE resgonsibliity, as reverted previ
3718,0N 33834.);

   
  
 
 

 

 

 

0883666

REPRODUGTION === a
PROMIBITED te Ae tt
14-00000

REPRODUCTION ounae6t

 

"the ANLASH circle is wide and vach new
eens to have knowledge of the plan.” I
problem is | more sexilous and basic one.
paragraph 3 of the present memorandun,

i

Bo

reportedly knew as far back as it
against hin and, knowing Lk, enlisted i
cannot rule out the possibility of provoenii 5
Opviously, 18 2 dangerous game, not merely to the
& physical senses, but to ® sponsoring government
suifer savere political repercussiona at home
involvement is made known, In the instant case,
exposure oF the ODYOXS hand would appear high, whether there is
& provocation or not. Considering the individuals who are
involved directly, thelr contacts with KUBARX ofzicers,and their
reported plan to expose ODYOKE, persisting in i
be highly enbarrassing to KUBABS, (This is

‘mow that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and UNG, aitheugh
fortunately the tenor of his complaint was thah KUBARE had no:
given adequate suppert to the vlan.)

     

Rmore the case

 
    

 

- The contacts at pand the matters affecting
o>

 

 

the Station.- The "reeyviuitmenk" of Maureen had been the
subject of an exchange of cables between _[ and Seaddaarters

 

 

   

 

and of discussions at Headquarters betyeen > aad (Ses°
1671 (2M 66557) and DIR-10955). The annoying thing in
this connection now is that ESPINOSA nag talked about if to
ODENVY and ODURGES and the danger that, if he is indiscreet,
his story avout this (and the other matters) could reach so:
curious newspaperman. (in this connection, it apsears
questionable decision to put Maureen in touch

group was made withoul the knowledge of STC
did not report any criflicism of the KHUBARKer
is evident that the AMLASH group knows mors
we might wish. What is new and of concern
matters in is his story of AMVAIP 1 and
dealings. Whe'questions raised aboub AMNVHIP-

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
 
  

 

 

  
 

 

 

   

 

        
 
 
 
  
 

ars Of mibual
concern also to Headquarters which has been ning him an
which he has visited often. (On the < ny

 

 

 

  

 

OPS-1 case, t

29 aad Gpecivically sat
and his connection with UNSNATU-13.) At 3 3 ‘s
points, the knowledge os the varth of 4
connection with ANVWHIP~-1 and the charge
defrauding KURARK in the jewelry transacti
in mind is the fack that ODeNYY i an of
Well uisht have been inform
have been asked for comment although G
has been to stay away from any inveshigation
ayencies unless specifically directed by the
to daventiveate.

previous trip tof jon the‘

    

 
 

 

 
   

 

\
\

 

  
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
  

 
 

‘REPRODUCTION

 

 

 

 

 

   

C, Criticism of tha } Station -
tha Station by the AMLASH sronp B30)

 

 

 

 

we

 

  
  
  
 

Fa
iS

ne
and -3 were in) and wanted dine
Station has had resexvations aboul see
been inyolved indirectly because of re
abeut and involvement of Station tary

eta
mans E fae re}

    

(See [_}2982 (iN 72256) anal /-2992
Heatings among QUSPORT, QUSWI7E-2, AMIRI
af

and at Headguarters. Insofar as GROW! is
concerned, 12 must be kept in mind that he is 3 natural tarze3
on whom the AMLASH sroug would be inclined to focus its com
claints. With regard to thea specific complaint about "Tota",
GROWERY has idenbizied her as QUBWIFT-7 and has resorted that
no statver from the Station ever had contact with her.

   

  

4, Further involvement of ESPINOSA: On 16 June ODENYT
notified KUBARA at New York that AULASH-2 had telephone
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
proper people” - 1.9., responsible HUBARK representatives ~ and

to requesk notice of the resulting arrangements.

5. AMWHID-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week.
to obtain ORG Information and. to obtain clarification of the
roles viayed by those involved with him in the AMLASH operation.
Hig dealings with UNSNAYU-19 also will be covared. Following -
this, an LCFLUTTER examination is planned. ‘his may help to

de

determine whether ne has been truthfal in his revorting,

WH/C/S?

 

Harold F. Syenson ;
|

OGU386B 0003669-

od,
