 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

  

 

3
: q
2 : , ue
S “ a
: : * be 2 Q
“s % # he a V . .
4 2 u a “
: 2 too ca i
Bos & oe 4
7! “ a . i
. hae e tp a
ON A So ys
et a - ‘- ar)
- a *% oo a Py
re a " -“ a = a -
Pa y « ® a .
Se : «oo i
- Qe Zw wok
\ 4 . > OF <
- , a ’ : a :
i ° : :
1 ‘ ¥
» Hi
re 1
. Pog f .
¥ “ . :
: a A 4 4 -
Fa - ” rs
. Laeenal : + ’ us
€ x 7 .
om f “af . YY
. “ % - ‘ a . :
. - os gO 5
ie *y nh « .
PA Pom OR ~ : 5
- 7 3
y . .
4
« *
aa ' .
2 a f
a Py
eres
Fa & . aw CO
a 4 4 hoo
7 . 2 rr a £
Ned : od ow .

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

AR PRI AIO

 

 

3 PeyWwE QRG

  

0 Bae le Sue

   

wes

     

    

 

 
74-00000

poste located near the inwarcep? pointe, with a is@leniog post operator
and an agetetant ion cach ae vo do tue woaltericg. The Soviet and
Satelilte take wae treasalated by castrate agente. The elation had
plane to add four or five gore licea, tut exparatos cee ty ues fore

of & new op@ration.

   

 
 

 

 

USVELOPRENT CF TEX Sed CPERAT OSS

 

axe

Tne Vogie for the indepesdent opersifss, which we wili

 

 

IRSOLO, wae laid ic tae fall.cf whes tvo weaployese of the tele-

 

phone ¢cwpany vere mccuited; ane was @ evpervisor for repairs and-

galotenance, Bod the ether vas one of his sordinates, a linesno vho
1

 

 

 

did repatr aod maintedance we Te Wpe vers placed on cuteide

}

lines cf the Soviet estaesy Qc the Creco ant Pollen iegations. By

 

 

the middie of bebo tng sparation’é ccverac? ust been @atended to

leadere of the local cameaciat Marty acd lomcolat-front creanisatioas.~

 

Thess early yeare nal beeg a diff icull pearing of erp rectt ress.
She station as eeliogs for KULASK a5 & Woola. sa cvercomlug the

protleme of talepicce taza, acd aagsetally shat af hacciing tne raw
tang. But progress ted orea steady, ax’ tbe productos yesre vars

OLO pridsead 19 positice acd 6 CK dlasesina-

 

tilane, we Grvbt doustry daska judged ‘ne oerstiosal livoreation-cf

¥,

 

tiva dotelitgence disesmisationa. Pts covmcnge Gad been expanded to

bratsliats

 

tacaude i:

 

owe rises

 

gn@ Latter at tbe cegepat of GOENVT, wooee Thiel sommmcted NUBARE for

te eacelisst$ ieyurmaiion terananittad to nie irgaciaation. Tho atatioa

WAS ALB. praised iy Feacquarwara for tts timiy foliow-up ef cperatteca,

wesds. The target Lists cow aumtered ¢4. Shere were eeven ltetect

   

cea we nad answnere. fo iG produced

agmmiaatiana. Aci af | St produted SL poale

sot PATS TRE Comauniat expatriates,
 

waenee

DFTRCOUCTICN: 440 COMPLEXENTARY OFERATIONS ‘s

The station dose not share the widespread belicf that telephone

tape are necessarily poor producers of positive intelligence. Whenever

& otation officar bears of a tap operation that produces Little dissent-
sable taformation, his inevitable camrent is: “foo bad thay're letting
good infcreation slip through their fingers." The station's experience
with tvo tap operations ezplains its attitudes. For 13 years it has had
an independent tap operation that became a good producer of positive
inteliigenca aa well as operatizal leads aod CI/CE infareaticn. ‘During
ite period of maxisue development this eperaticn had 23 lings and
produced sono 140 dissentnaticos por yoar. Five years ago the statica
Sat Up & new tap operation Jointly wita ths local goverment. Thie
operation becam orleniou priamrily towards inteiligesca procusticn.
During the peat two yoars it bas walatatned 30 active lines and
produced some 255 disseminaticns por years ita reporting has been ovalu~
ated as "detailed, acd of high quality and substantial quantity.”
Several lines tapped by the joint operation had been tha most productive
ones of the todepandent vapap hoa infependent operation has been saiu~
tategd,vithout the knoviedge of tha local govarnmat, but it has beccne
oriented primarily tovaris targets of CI/CB interest; 6% the same tis,
ite overall coversge bas teen reduced, an! in recent yearp it bag main-
tained beeween 12 and 18 linas. Under these circunstances, tha datelli-

genes productice of the indepesdent operation was ound to decrease;

reverthslese, it hae remained a respectable producer, vith an average POEL Basi

tearget *" -eaminatiogs par year. ‘Ths story of these two complementary

é

EM
 

va cag be Clrected prisartly

 

SAP OTe TB ins ae gee ta Chat a.ch oper
towards istei.twenie collection or tawerc: the acqulettice of 21 cs

fafermation and cyerational leacs: it @ieo ahowe that any gccd tap

 

a bocsd to produce teovh peaitive and TICE information, in

 

Operas:
varyisg degrees arconiing bo tia way the operation ie siaated. The
fatellise.ce product te there, Dut it Lag tc te recognised and extracted

froa tae cre. The Yolicwing account of tia Jevelopmmert acd present

 

workiogs Of toe atatioc’s tw tap of

ra hat contribute to thelr productivity.

 

   
74-0000

d
4
4
4

i
2
|

  

SECRUT/EAPOK Huse 12220

4. Finally, there vas the cuestion of the Polish lines, on which
the files are mystifying. The 1960 Project Herewal request moations
LITENSOR’s dssire to cover those as well as the other two, but subso@-
quent correspondence anits all montion of Polish lines, id he really
gention the Polish target? If ee, bow did ve manage to get out of it?

5. The tough probles, of course, will be to sanitize tha peper
without dowagradiag the operations. The essence of the message is
that eo mech cap be dene, and done well, by relatively few people,
provided these few people have the right ezilis and sufficient drive.
Wo might omit all references to Latin America, the Spanish ianguage,
and Cuban case officers; se might even tarow in a few misleading phrases
like "the fareaway Cuban target.” Ye certainly would not want the
location to be recognized escept by persons already ianiiiar with the
operations. Ye will be guided by your wishes in this and othey aspects
ox tne pager. :

Olivers G, GALBOHD
 

104-10186-10447

 

, onc Of ovr vory inrgest. Shore de alee t

SECRET /KAPOS

Chief of station, Mexico City KN

aH vivigien (Chief)

Review of LIFFAT and LIENVOY Projects by KUTIBE/OPS

i. Here is the KRUTUBE draft puper prepared by Paul VV. LEVISTER
after his recent visit to your station. It has had the bencfit of
valuable sugcestions from the cesk. It hes hvoen read with interest by
senior XYUBARK officers who thing the paper tllustrates the essentials -
Of gvod tap oserutions. The stress uf the paper is oo latelligeuce
collection, but some mention bac to be made of operntioual leads and
CI/CE information, otherwise we would have had only a partial picture
of the operations. Fe will appreciate any comments or corrections you
wish to make. ec want to precent the true facts sud convey the right

dapression,

2. waving paid this tribute to nonesty, ve will adait having
departed from the facts ia a few inatances, in the interest af slaplige
Lilention. ‘time was the .vestion of Frecas and tinasvaipie, aan recls
ghone (page2 17, $2 anu 4233 we dic not wink to confuse the reader with
thin distinction, Vhe other #63 the collection and distribution of
reals ana te2nslations, which is tcumeshat gore complex taan the
arocedure ceseribed in the text: we oreferrec not lo £isx losing ihe
reader anc ourselves ta those cousle ami traple wingbac’ formations
executed oy Robert 3. RIGGS aad Jeresy AH. NIARCOS om their way to york
im the gvratug and eoactiimes curing, the day.

 

for instance

3. Yhere are a [es mofuts oa which we vere not sure,
Be Ama?

the @umgmary account of the gtatioats sirengtis giveu on ps
so fit thad such an acccunt wes ueceseary Gucd the Peedcer les
of the size of the operations the Rawunt of work lavalyes

such aa account he might nave assume ERAT tae Stition is ue
Ae cuestdon of ihe exavi

   

fai kued
tthoul

Tan €28

       

    

  

 

 

cunpusttiion of the tatercept centere-at tau start, aml TY tuere
is unythiay missia, (or net acewrately Gemcribed) that - 2 help others
stations to improve: their ows o@eratious at this xey Putnt, Fe woula
like very much to our at in.
(continued)
ihstritvutien:
Oxi e- , HEXLCO ULty
fe
at
x

JJ -xcember 1303

 

CORRT/%A PUL , ert we

 

 
 

 

ZHBOLO AND 7RJOTHT

“WO TELEPHORR TAP OFERATICRS

 
74-0000

 

PASLE OF CONTERTS

UPRODUCTTOg: TWO CONPLEIGNTARY OFERATTOS —

PARE I: DRVELOPAEYT OF TEE fWo CFRRATICNS
PART 12: THR GAFSTOR INSTALLATIONS
PARE YI; SUATION'S USE OF TAP INFORMATION

CORCLIRET OMS °

a9

 

 
