 

wpre trying to work out with
political parties a formula .
from making large gains on the

I added that the more reaponsible milit

gthe{____kovernment and the aon
which would prevent the
national level.

   
   

 

4. Ona the subject of Mr. Murphy felt that in so armall a
country action should be pogsible to remov fied wondered
why it had not been done. I pointed out that we had as yet no policy
approval for gach action but that we were active in identifying and
making contact with opposition elements both wi d in exile.
I described some of the difficulties, auch af, control of
the arms in the palace and his widespread penetration of opposition

otting that had just resulted in the rolling up of a coup attempt by
army officers. ;

5. Mr. Gray noted that he had seen in the newspapers a report
of our recent decision te allow Radle Liberty to broadcast in Russian |
to the Soviet troops in Cuba. He was heartily in favor of such action
‘but wondered how we were able to obtain approval of it when the
Administration seems so anxious te avoid actions that might appear
to be provecative te the Soviets. i informed him that here had, in fact,
been some delay in obtalniag the approval.

& Both the gentlemen asked for detailed information on the
structure and workings of the Latin American Policy Committee (LAPC)
and asked whether we felt this committee in any way hampered or
interfered with the approval process in the Special Group. I said that
both Chief, WH and myself were well pleased with the way the LAPC —
operates and believed it to be highly aseful.

7. Ithen briefed them on actions which were taken in Southeast

 

As cularly the measur i gthen the border police im the

10 I tald them as aware of these actions and
they wanted to be certain Mr. as clearly instructed pricr to
nis departure

 

& Both men objected to presa reporta that certain Administration
officials believed the Sovies to be exerting a helpful and restraining
influence in Laos. I had te agree with them that it was hard to maintain
gach a view in the face of the lacreasing aggressiveness of the Pathet Lao,
and I described the existing policy limita on our relations with,

i then described the present state of the Soviet-Chinese

r4

x
13-00000 —

 

 

split and some of out efforts to exploit and exacerbate these tenalons.
Mr. Murphy asked for specific information on the extent of trade, if
any, between China and the Soviet Union and the amount of the out-
standing Chinese debt te the Soviets. 1 agreed to provide this via

Mr. Coyne. Mr. Gray asked about the depth and extent of our
intelligence from Peking and the China mainland, and was critical of
the information supplied to us by the Chinese Nationalists. I said
that intelligence operations in China were not my field but that 1 would
make sure that a report on this did get to them.

9. I went on to describe the cultural ferment within Russia and
recent action Khrushchev had taken to discipline the dissident writers
and artists. They were very much interested in the actions we! had
taken to exploit this situation and particularly interested ia the current
issue of Encounter and in the account therein of the Khrushchev tirade
at the recent art exhibition,

10. On Cuba I explained that 1 was not in a position to brief
them in depth and any questions in this field woald be handled by the
Director or DDP, I did, however, brief them on the Kralak Committee
and the recent meetings in Managua regarding measures that could be
taken to limit the export of subversion from Cuba. {I have sent to
them via Pat Coyne the CIA Memoranduni on the present scope of the
Cuban subversive training effort. )

ll. I described the covert support to the[____ political parties
for the forthcoming parliamentary election as approved by the Special
Group. Mr. Marphy had not previously known of the decision to lend
some selective support to land described this
decision with some surprise “as quite a switch." 3

12. Finally. owhen informed of the policy limitations
relations with the Phar. Murphy
expressed himself as being in agreement with those limitations and

seemed to feel that the best course to fallow was to assist the
Government in its attempts to control the situation. “He said

met recently for the first time with in New York last
week and was not impressed by the man,

 

 

 

 
‘that he had been informed in New Yo

_ to hold the elections scheduled fo

fo ee

jen D/P. %- AA

1 cme _

   
 

; Executive Registry

17 April 196

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board ~

1. On 15 April, at DDP's request, | met with Measra, Robert
Murphy, Gordon Gray, and J. Patrick Coyne to brief.them on major

covert action developments since their previous briefing on

2 November 1962. The meeting lasted from 10:00 to 12:15.

2. At Mr. Murphy's request, I began with a description of oar

. electoral operations as approved by the Special Group in Chile, the

Dominican Republic, and Guatemala, f. Murphy was
particularly concerned with the situation and both he and
Mr. Gray found it difficult to anderstand why the State Department 6
ceatinued to provide large-scale economic assistance when

had to date refused to clean house of the Communists and fellow
travelera both within the government and the labor movement. They
were interested in knowing that we wore in touch with some of the
military leaders who are opposed and they seemed to feel
be preferable to allowing a
to drift into the hands of the
opposition. Beth gentlemea wished to know the amounts that we had
expended in these electoral operations and cur own estimate of the
results. They did not question either the need for intervention or

the size of our effort; although in the|Chilead case Mr. Mur d
te be sare that we had evidence that the funds passed thr S
hands actually reached the(Chilea, Christian Democrats.

 
  
 

 

3,.' Mz, Murphy then raised the

  
 
 
 
 

roblem and said
Department was
egime to persaade it
963. He questioned the
wisdom of this presaure, pointing out that there was a real danger.

of the retaraing to power if the elections were held. He
asked our opinion and | said that, despite the pressure, there was atill
considerable doubt whether the elections would actually take place.

putting considerable presaure on th

Yup
13-00000

TEL UNCLASSIFIED Oo oa [CONFIDENTIAL (1 secret

~~ ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)

Office of the DD/P
‘Rm. 3-C-34—Hagrs,

2 = NOV 1962
ata ao a, room number, ond ‘ COMMENTS {Number each comment’ to show from, whom
- ao . 10 whom: | Brew a Bing, across’ column after each comment.

GPO 1961: o—Seaas

ess 610 “re 7) SECRET [[] CONFIDENTIAL [1] J ean . CI UNCLASSIFIED

 
=~ 2 =

4. ClA-sponsored activities at the Helsinki Youth Festival was
the next item presented. A full report was given witich followed care-
folly the post-morten written by the CA Staff.

5. As for CA activities in the remainder of Latin America, the

. if
following countries were covered: Dominican Republic, cnite, |“ }

A. oy
and{f an ware then touched on, with

particular reference to the sensitivity of tne 7 cooperation on

the latter.

6. In Southeast Asia, an up-to-date report was presented on —
operations ‘in Laos, South Vietmam, and North Vietnam. Problens in
connection with Korth Vietnamese operations were specifically identi-
fied.

7. on the(" "Jenner, the Panel yas nado aware of
pending and current requests from the Toe assistance in
the twaining of guerrilla forces. The role of the Tibetans was also
identified. In response te a query from Mr. Murphy, I said that I

did not see any requirement at this time for an inerease of our perma~

nent establishment in expressing the opinion that any trainers
and paramilitary experts which we might send could be covered for us
by + ,

8. Tn Europe, Gh programs in tie following areas were wp

/
dated: Berlin, France and nay, wna

lL
 

 

ry

-~3-

Mr. Murphy seemed particularly interested in ths level of activity
in Italy and our efforts to cut it back.

9. Ab’ one point in the briefing, I spoke of the change in
status of the African-American Institute and told of our negotiations
with the Ford Foundation om the Congress for Cultural Freedom. I
mentioned the Department of State veto on passing fmds to

| ot There was some discussion of the Yenen and associated
problems. Here, I simply gave an intelligence briefing on the Yenen

 

and the effects of the revolution there on Saudi Arabia and the
British positdon in the Aden Protectorate. —

None.
ow 2 wo

Be The Director then Heocribed in some detail Agency covert
finenctel support in the recent (erections, the rast (~~ Jotecttons,

and the election. He also described our activities in con~

nection with the Ttalian political parties. Following this, he covered

our plans for the upcoming{ elections. Be touched on our
thoughts with regard to the political situation in

kh. At this juncture, the Director discussed Agency labor operan

' tions. He ‘read to ‘the. group a short paper which outlined our support

to anti-Commnist lebor unions sna our work through
+t ‘and our relationships wit labor and the assistance

fC 2d “pave given Us.

Se Ageney support to cultural. organisations was raised by

 

 

Dr. Langer, and the Director covered in some detail the current status
of our support plus that of the Ford Foundation to the Congress for
Cultural Freedom and the International Comssioti of Jurists. He
touched on the Asia Foundation, and our desire to try to cbtain the
services of Mr. Livingston Merchant to bead it.

6. In the time remsining to him, the Director, went over with the
Panel country by country an extended list of political parties and
leaders supported by the Agency throughout the world. What he did not
have an opportunity to cover in this list the Deputy Director (Plans)
finished during the remainder of the morning and during the afternoon
‘session.

 

NY

Te
(04-10302-40000 \ \ a
fl 4 '

4 ; ; ; ; | : a | poms

 

  

pfaafee-
vee | Exacuiive Registry

a VERERISS

25 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

1. On 20 July 1962, the Director and the Deputy Director (Plans)
met with Messrs. Robert Murphy, Gordon Gray, William Langer, and
J. Patrick Coyne to discuss certain aspects of the Agenoy's Political
Action Programs. The Director sat with the Panel from 10:30 "th noon,
the Deputy Director (Plans) was present from 10:30 to 12:30 and fron
2:00 to 3:30.

2. The Director opened the discussion with a historical description
of the Agency's covert financial support te political parties in the
fight against Commnism. He described in detail thea procedures now in
effect whereby Political Action Projects are originated, staffed out,
and cleared with appropriate elements of Government. He pointed out
that each project must have his spproval prior to its circulation to
the mmbere of the Special Group. At this point, he digressed to inform
the Panel that reconnaissance overflights are now approved by the
Special Group and subsequently by the President. He said that this
same procedure applies to peripheral flights although to a lesser de=-
gree. He terminated this part of the discussion by stating that in

his opinion "all covert action programs are now handled in an orderly,

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
_ RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998

correct manner".
i]
Ve
é

7. Also. in the afternoon, the Deputy Director (Plans) read. to
the Panel. a paper on Operation Mongoose which the Director had used —_
earlier in the day. for briefing the President. This paper was used
on the instruction of the Directors The Panel asked questions about
Agency activity involving Cuba, all of which were answered with the
exception of one having to do with the role of the Attorney General.
This query was raised by Mr. Gray who recognized and gracefully ace
cepted the fact that he was not answered directly.

8. Before the afternoon session adjourned, the Penel raised the -
question of the total. dollar amount of funds expended annually for
covert aetion. The Deputy Director (Plans) showed them a chart con
piled by DDP-BG, dated k April 1962. This chart gives the precise

. dollar amounts expended anmally. The se figures vary from the Congres-

sional ones since the support slice is not included.

sucnd, some

Deputy Director (Plans)

‘Distributions

Original - The Director ”

-. Los « Exec. Director
1 ce = G/CA-I0
1 ce = DD/P
 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting on CA Matters with the Panel of the President's
Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board
1. On 1 Novenber, the Depaty Director (Plans) met with
Messrs. Robert Murphy, Gordon Gray, and J. Patzick Coyne to present
a follow-up briefing on the Agency's political action programs since
the one held on 20 July 1962. The meeting lasted from 2:30 to h:h5.

2. There was little discussion on Cuba. In response to
Mr. Murphy's inquiry, I told him that a good intelligence job had
been done but that I thonght it desirable to have this studied by
the Board on the basis of a paper which the Director was having pre- |

pared and which Mr. Kirkpatrick had assured Mr. Coyne would be sub-

mitted to the Board after the Director had had an opportunity to re-

view it.

3. ave" —Fereotton program was covered in considerable
detail. Points covered were: (2) the reason for the program, (b) the
manner in which candidates were chosen, (c) the amount of money ine
volved; (d) the methods of funding, and (e) the coordination of State
and the Agency on the entire scenario. Following the presentation of
the factual elements, there was considerable discussion of the politi-
cal situation in and the direction in which that Government
seemed to be tending. |

hye
