13-00000

 
-to develop the target and was able to provide significant OB -
at the same time. Neither this, nor the other efforts to
penetrate the Cuban military at high-level, however, had net
with full success . the end of the reports period.

(b) The Cuban lawyer recruited in May 1962.
(see paragraph Hrot? )—deveroned a second target in September,
a former member (of the pews now awaiting reassigne
ment, The agent was instructed to recruit and train this |
military Officer in S/W. At the end of the reporting period
— it was not possible to determine the success of this potentially .
aia excellent operational development.

 

 

(c) Included in this discussion is the
partially . gucceasful recruitment of a Cuban army engineer who |.
is stationed in Santiago. The agent cited in (2b above) has —
been in contact with this target, a captain, since July 1962,
but has not succeeded in completing the full recruitment. He
has obtained OB from the captain, but we feel the operation
: will not have renched its full potential until the captain has
| been trained in S/W and is reporting directly to us. .

 

(d) Since mid-August the Agency has been
pursuing a lead to the G-3 of the Cuban Army. The basis of this
pursuit was fitted together from innumerable reports, and finally
centered, in early October, on a plan to try to effect the recruit-

3g ‘ment using a letter from a former army and prison comrade. By ™

. eut~off date, the developmental activity had reached the point

| where the only remaining matter was to deliver the letter into
the hands of the Officer.

3. Economic. The Agency has striven to identify key
figures in the Cuban 6conomy and to develop agSess to them as
rapidly as possible, wherever the opportunity has arisen. Oil,
Nickle and Sugar Industries have been assigned to us having the .

' highest priority.

 

 

(a), troleum:o® TY recruited and , ent to.
Cuba in January a-.yound engineer. n eported
he had obtained a position in the } of Too

 

 

lowly himself to be of major value, we have steadily gilded him 24 ©
in an enterprise aimed at recruitment of the( _ of the
industry. The families of the two man had bétn close friends. :

- ' The effort involves many imponderables and must be carried out via

. S/W. Still, the major aim is déemed worthy of the investment,

Meanwhile the agent has been able to provide intelligence of
increasing value. .

i
 

 

 

 

 

 

va oe i - ¢

before dispatching him to Cuba, he has attempted to carry out

his instructions. By October he had succeeded in eliciting
significant information from the target, and was confident his ‘4
full recruitment was simply a matter of time. One inhibiting

feature affecting the pace of this operation is the fact that

the agent lives in Santiago while his relative, the target, is

a resident of Havana. Unquestion: bly the full recruitment of -:

the target could help fill an important gap in our reporting ~

on GOC activities.

\.

: (b) In June 1962 TFW obtained a lead to a
person very closely related to Fidel CASTRO. Throughout the :
summer extensive but necessarily circumspent negotiations were
conducted to bring this person to Mexico where full recruitment,
training and briefing would be possible. The negotiations : ‘
culminated in success, The agent was met and trained by Agency Ir
personnel in September and early October and dispatched to Cuba “yt
on 15 October with the specific mission of- reporting on the F a
thoughts, plans and activities of the CASTROS and otner leading SY

' GoC figures. Since the target, prior to recruitment did not \

possess the kind of political awareness which would have led him
systematically to observe those GOC personalities to whom he

had matural access, the Agency was denied any prime political |
intelligence from this source during the reporting period.

-(c) Throughout the summer 1962, TFW
received various reports, the tenor of which were that Ernesto
‘Che! GUEVARA would like to defect from Cuba. Each report proved,
upon closer inquiry, to be groundless, until we learned in late ,
September that a Mexican industrialist had claimed GUEVARA had
asked him in 1961 for assistance in leaving Cuba. Though many
of the facets of this disclosure tallied with other known data, .
exploitation of this exceedingly important lead was hamstrung by
the inability to aline a qualified agency officer with the widely:
travelling Mexican. This lead illustrates well the frustrations
involved in pursuing high-level targets within a rigid time
framework, and with a limited number of available personnel.
It also illustrated the need to persist, when the target is of
sufficient importance, in the follow up of "far-out" leads.

-3. Military

; (a). In Late July TFW recruited a Cuban

legal traveller I use @f-his close relationship with

a member @f the Once again only a few hours \
was available in which to train the agent. Nevertheless, during
August, September and October the agent persisted in his efforts

 
 

tictintinigie

 

 

 

: l_result in the direct recruitment of a high~level
- 29 er it would be in e to say that as of
he close rend reporting period, the’ had been penetrated

period. The key military, political and economic targets were
clearly defined and assiduously pursued by TFW. The. immense
pressure of time must continuously be borne in mind if the attack
on the Cuban problem is to be granted its full perspective. Even
before TFW assumed responsibility for collection against Cuba,

it was clear that intelligence on Soviet, Satellite and Chinese:

' Communist Cuban policy and maneuvers would be formulated and

planned at.the highest level in the respective governments.
Equally clear was the fact that the clandestine search for in-
sights into the Cuban policies of these governments would enjoy

only as much success as the clandestine search for any intelligence

regarding any policies of these governments. Time restrictions
alone ruled out the hope that adequate coverage of these key -

_ denied area targets could be achieved. As a consequence, every ©

facet of the TFW collection program was geared to the search for.
top priority Cuban intelligence; from sources in the free world
and on the island every agent or agent candidate was evaluated in.
terms of his access.to such intelligence. Translated into
espionage terms, this meant that every agent or candidate was
examined sharply to determine whether and how he could help
penetrate the GOC, the Cuban armed forces or the managerial and
policy levels of the Cuban economy. Below is an account of the
success of this effort; it will be seen that most major target
areas were under direct, specific assault.

b. Political.

1. Cuban re t party: in In late a clos relative
and confidant (o was
singled out and developed by a Chai ae prince @ agent.
candidate provided highly valuable information throughout “the
summer of 1962, Though the information was obtained indirectly
by the agent it was but a portion of what he could produce. Thus
the ultimate aim of the operation was to effect the candidate's
direct recruitment. The drive toward this goal continues, and.
though we are optimistic that the 6 months effort thus far in-

at a ‘significant level, 24
2. Goc Ruling Circle.

(a) .In May 1962 TFW spotted a Cuban legal —
traveller whose brother~in-law has been a member of the GOC™
from its inception. The agent was recruited under specific
instructions. to attempt to induce his relative te report on GOC

policy matters. Though TFW had only 12 hours with the agent

2s

a wi

 

ah
 

 

o&
4.44 cultura} attache of a West European Embassy in Havana. who
picks up information from other diplomats and from Cuban contacts on
political matters. A sub-agent of this asset has also been a source |
of medium-level political information. ;

 

5. A West European Ambassador in Cuba who provides political
information he obtains from foreign and Cuban contacts.

; ; * goo |. . : oo

6. A/Cuban Ambassador in Western Burope) who has been reporting

with utmo: detail and frequency on high-leVel political matters of
which he is aware.

7. The Ambassador to Cuba of a Latin American country who reports
‘political intelligence obta. his Cuban and foreign contacts.

8. A former protege er who retains contacts with

government leaders and who is a flew asset developing his reporting —
capabilities on political matters.

9. The Ambassador in Cuba of ane who has
provided high-level political information.
be awyer in Santiago whose brother-in-law, ;
provided intelligence on GOC/Soviet re 7

241 icer of a foreign intelligence service assigned
SS : to a n a Havana Embassy who has produced some
eal inte ,

poli géenee responsive to our requirements.

 

‘12, A Cuban manager of an intervened U.S. company who has .
relatives in the PSP and in the government. To date, his reporting
has covered. general political developments.

of | ag. brarian a cher who is a relative of dle ge :
ese of th and who has high-level government contacts. —
. political information.  . %
. . ©
t

 

 

This a ‘as been reporting political. personality data and some
14, A [| in Western Europe) who has reported political
information to which he has access. — :

15. {In addition, thexe are a number of agent penetrations in
Cuban diplomatic establishments overseas who provide a variety of
miscellaneous political information concerning Cuban activities in the
areas concerned.

4 i

 
 

 

 

“pl

 

 

ce. Economic. ‘The Agency was able to produce a continuous amount
of intelTigence from Agent sources on the Cuban sugar, oil and trang.
portation industries, much of which was in the form-of statistical
summaries. Ina number of instances, this intelligence was pro.
vided by agents who had direct access to this information by virtue .
of their jobs.. We also have been able to get continued reporting
on general economic conditions and foreign trade. Among the nost
significant agents reporting economic information were: .

1. A Cuban Gnsurance) salesman, previously noted, who ;
through his extefsive coxitacts and sub-agents has been able to

‘provide information on sugar production, (insurance) affairs and

the Cuban banking system. g .
0 y
An official of the of L_(s close associate _
of who has provided useful economic intelligence. :

 

 

 

 

 

3. A relative of a former Cuban president, previously noted,
who has provided detailed import-export figures; detailed docunentary
reports on petroleum.

 

4, @ official of Cubana Airlines who reportedly
provided high-level information on Cubana Airlines, particularly
financial and materiel affairs.

ent of Mexico and( of an ;
firm who travels to Cuba where he haS g60d contacts
n the nis of Industry, who has reported economic information,

 

6. A Dutch businessman who has access to Cuban economic
officials and whe has provided useful economic information,

U.S. trained Cuban engineer who provided detailed reports.
on(petroleun) 4 dustry. .

d. Sociological and General Conditions. The Agency has

- provided’a st teady and rélatively heavy flow of intelligence .

covering such matters as the state of resistance activities, mood
of the populace, living conditions, etc., from agents in nearly
every Cuban province. A survey of agents reporting this type .
of information has not been completed, because almost all of our
agents have reported on this low priority topic from time to time,

4, Within the Terms of the Agency's Mission, What Target '
Unablé to Cover and Wy? SSCS

Was It Unable to Cover an y

a. Paragraph 3 above sets forth in general the degree to a,
which the major Cuban targets were covered during the ‘reporting :
13-00000

 

 

 

 

III, WHAT TARGETS WAS THE AGENCY ABLE TO COVER AND WITH WHAT
FREQUENCY AND CONTINUITY? -

The following remarks apply to agent coverage only, that is,
coverage by means of individuals on the island of Cuba, or elsewhere:
in the world, Audio devices or telephone taps on Cuban installations
abroad or Cubans living abroad have produced intelligence which hag
served operational ends, in other words, information which has prom
vided critical data used in the spotting, assessment and recruit.

; ment of agents. Due to the standard security measures taken in
eee most official installations, these technical operations have been

. able to provide only a limited amount of positive intelligence. In
general, agents have produced information essentially in accordance
with their known access at the time of recruitment. Responsibility
for many of the agents dealt with during the present reporting period.

s. simply assumed by TFW from pest efforts against Cuba. In many
instances. these agents had been recruited strictly on an "availa-
bility" basis, and indeed had no particular access. A major effort
was made at the inception of TFW to winnow out those persons who
could make no contribution and to redirect those who could. This
process of redirection, which was conducted via time consuming and
generally inefficient S/W channels, resulted in. the conversion of
a number of heretofore unusable azents into sound, pertinent reporte
ing sources, Though, in most instances, TFW operations officers
had never had personal contact with these agents, they succeeded
in inducing many of them to spot, develop and recruit sub-agents.
This technique succeeded, despite the obstacles involved in
vetting candidates and advising agents via S/W means. In regard
to.the recruitment of new agent assets during the reporting period,
-JFW was able to be guided by specific, priority needs. Accordingly,
the many new assets acquired were chosen because of specific access
‘to target personalities or institutions. The assigned targets and
extent of coverage are indicated below.

 

 

 

A. Military

During the reporting period, in the latter half, the Agency's
major effort to obtain intelligence from agent sources, centered
on Cuban military affairs. The reporting obtained covered matters
ranging from military policy to detailed OB. Almost every agent
contributed to this effort, with the consequence that the coverage
‘of military matters was wide-spread and continuous. Despite the
fact that 95% of this information was provided via S/W (much of it
‘fron totally untrained sub-sources who had no military experience),
such was the detail and volume of the data, that our agents were
able to give us highly significant information on troop and materiel'
movements, location and nature of military sites, etc. The follow-
ing agents served as the major sources of military id4formation
‘during the reporting period:

ak, ) 7 3
a

 
 

104-10307-10006} |

 

CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE INTELLIGENCE. COMMUNITY'S REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE ve ae
' ACTIVITIES RELATING TO THE CUBAN ARMS BUILD-UP : Aen

1h APRIL THROUGH 1h OCTOBER 1962

Task Force W :
- Foreign |
Intelligence |. :
Branch :

 
 

 

 

“ind

 

C : ey C
0

1. Cuban nsurance) executive, who had a large and diversified

-net, provided intelligence in late June 1962 which specifically

anticipated the massive Soviet military build-up which ultimately...
took place in Cuba. Throughout the build-up itself this agent
provided an almost continuous stream of OB intelligence on missile;
maritime and air phases of the build-up. He provided the initial —:
reporting on delivery of TL-28's to the island.

2. A relative of a former Cuban president whose government

- connections provided him on several occasions with information on

attitudes of various military factions toward Castro and the
Soviets. Agent also provided some detailed missile OB.

  
    

o established contact with a resistance.
chief (in during July 1962, provided, in the course |
of sevéral reports!’an inventory of Soviet installations throughout
the province. The maintenance of communication with this agent was
extremely arduous in virtue of his most exposed position,

4. <A Havana surgeon who took special horseback trips to cover
the Soviet instal ation at Torrens Reformatory.

5. A former lawyer, resident of Santiago provided information
on Cuban armymhime laying along roads in Santiago area, as well as .
on Soviet troops and materiel movements.

a

6. A western diplomat who provided photographs of Soviet-
occupied hotels in Havana, Soviet troop and materiel movements in
the Havana area.

7. <A Cubana official who provided comprehensive data on etate
readiness of Cubana air materiel. .

8. A merchant in Camaguey who had provided general observed’ -
tional reporting on military activities in his area.

9. A former wife of a Cuba Airlines pilot who has contacts
among Cuban Airline pilots from whom she obtained some air OB.

10. A shipping clerk at Cardenas harbor reported sporadically
on activities at the port. ;

11. A construction company employee at Guantanamo Naval Base
reported on Cuban OB in the environs of the base.

12. A public accountant in Havana who is the leader of a
counter-revolutionary group, reported military information acquired
through his group contacts. .

13. A Havana bartender who reported considerable quantities
of OB data obtained from his large circle of varied acquaintances
in Havana area.

4. A retired railroad official reported data on wath shipments.

pet ood vente

es Ae ee

 
 

 

 

15, A lawyey in Havana reported on Rancho Boyeros. Airport
in Havana where & certain airline) is one of his clients.

16. firm manager in Pinar del Rio recruited: |
in July 1962 reported on military developments in his area.:

 

 

 

 

17. A Cuban employee of a foreign embassy recruited in July ae
1962 in Havana reported some OB information which was obtained
through casual contacts.

 

 

18. A customs inspector t ‘in Havana
was.the source of good reporting on Sov/Bloc cargo shipments to
Havana, including military cargos.

 

19. A physician an Havana who reported on military movements. -°

20. <A Cuban Airlines official, with limited access, reported
Air OB. : ,

21. <A foreign intelligence service staff officer in Havana
reported military OB,

22. A second foreign intelligence service staff officer in
Havana reported military OB..

23. <A number of maritime assets who have reported on Sov/Bloc
military cargo deliveries to Cuba.

b. Political. Throughout the reporting period, the Agency was
able to produce intelligence on Cuban political affairs at the -
ministerial level and above. This intelligence was derived
essentially from sources who had but limited access to persons of .
high rank or in key positions. This type of access placed a premium
on Agent elictation skills and the ability to distinguish between
rumor and fact, plus an aptitude for remaining afloat in dangerous _
waters. The most significant political information was provided | :

 

 

by the following agents: o%
1. An official Gin the of who, (in the>
capacity of advisor to Ernesto E \) was able to glean informa-

tion on Cuban political affairs.

2. A relative of a former Cuban president who through this
connection and his own social position is able to maintain contact

with high-level officials in Cuba. . A
: OF

3. A Cuban doctor ho gives médical treatment to Cuban
officials and)who is reporting limited intelligence, by direction,
until he is able to develop direct access to important high-level
VIER CLES
