14-00000:

vo SECRET

12 It must re that the voice intercept and photographic

coverage was n - is not) processed in "real time." The

  

means of A he volume of the information precludes anything

but . Y ;
, S | ; LS

ordinar inte and, therefore, noted in summary logs. MW RRS of .
selected items require consultation of the tape and either, S tr QS ;
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage, ~7E0
available in quantity lots which requires scanning BS a 7 :
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." RY oe
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of

Co a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy , during which the speaker said 7

he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to:

Headquarters in its fi rst indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexj GW jon.did one more thing in its 8 October report

on Lee OSWALD on SN) October voice intercepts: it cou e

data with ‘t RS) mation it had acquired from a-semmrByre. _-
LY « S S SSS .
recess

corer rex Sotograph of a male individual, anger y VY
: i ~ ~
mmeri QS ig Ga acre entering the Soviet EnbagQO an

The Station redorted this detail on the 8th as a Ce

    
     
  

fact. The Station did not assert. or suggest that uced fron

_ the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

pacz LO og 2

COPY NO.

 

 
14-00000

SECRET

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

 

14. One BSS element of background must be stipula ow. as
to understanding the. relevance (or A AS nce)

of the << gon individual placed in the
ba es by FBI’ Agent Bardwell] OD GY

the final prec

    

    

15. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

 

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee ‘of the Cuban
: Embassy, Consu Tar section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown ;
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the -
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on--
his way to the ere and he wants to know with whon heQwas ”
talking ee she (Silvia DURAN ) had sent him to % wor
a

‘Embassy s

the ro

Paper's . rk, eee Immigration in Cuba oon
es LS know with whom he had talked Ringe AEN a
he was ~y there would be no problem. The man in ust e ie :

Embassy says to wait a moment. .A different Soviet speaks, and.

SECRET. a
0052155

11

PAGE =.

COPY NO. _____.

>
x» accepted him and gave him aC
> ould also give him a visa BAS COS ;

 
14-00000.

ae “SECRET

10. At no Or his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
L

WW]
»
a photo of \ A aareful- review of all coverage, voice j Neert,

KS
as well \S SS

care of both the Soviet and Cuban Eee was
Sy’ SS

  
    

cond thes jon on 22 and 23 November 1963 Re

RS “eto materials from August 1963. Oe > firm.
that they s no CIA photo coverage of ange 1D ing his .
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover ,™ ensQGNT had made a

cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one fron Headquarters =-which did not

have one either--before 22 November .1963.

11. buries Fis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts

by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-

cept--which had bee ted to Headquarters and disseminated to the

interested membe e intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy BESS icas ep the Delimitations Agreement... and potentially
: S&S.

SS)

of intere Sie et ent of State)--turned up matcties
, SS

   

SS
oS : .
contenk Re mater intercepted on 27 and 28 Septemb
matche ree ed to Headquarters on 23 Novenber WS

se.

based on voice comparison (except for what orgs te
monitor--and this was not an insignificant e aw ;
memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not reR because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

 

SECRET

 
14-00000

“SECRET

1963 to about 8:30 a.m..2 October 1963. His place of rest cence
small commercial tr ote, not frequented by “ar ingogR
. SS

he-was registered under alias.
es SS 4
detailed i s rrogation by the Mexic
8 s
the RR ination, established
all p he left early and returned ae

8. Assuming, and allowing for the. fact of late arrival and. early

    

Hotel Commerci

 
 
  
  

departure, that he slept one- -third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1.October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

agent) coverage either |

 

 

   
 

9. It should be NS that OSWALD was in no Sense “under investi-
Ss of his defection and stay in the US

gation." None of ¢
AS
return to the AY 9 aS;
9

  

2, were known to Mexico ee i
before 10 0c 6 Qn bare bones of his .bio er EY i
& x ae xe

forwarde Wadgué Ve in response to a Station Bre

Gr x

    

8 Octo i QS

 

to be

 

a contact by XY erican for a visa to Cuba int sie USSR. This

was indicated and deduced from technical ly acquired information. ‘on .
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.

SECRET
0662152

‘PAGE 8
COPY NO.

 

OF amen

 
14-00000,

 

SECRET
sensitive ing operation being conducted in October 1963 by the
CIA against the Soviet and Cuban

 

 

 

 

aaa Nad - - &

xe extraordinary press of effort to sre ation
S$ ee

he oad and the assassination, ‘copies of <—oe
made. available by CIA's Mexico werner ite & a) fF
_ 22 November to the local FBI representativ KW Ta day,

assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copi@(were conveyed by

an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigati on. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to -

Mrs. Marguerite heads arvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the
evening of 23 rove G95 we Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

y-

The -W enon Ws report describes the sequence of. events :
QS SO .
at pp. 364- i 6 L> achment B) which ultimately resulted in .
He aC |
Mrs. Mar  OSGN Rey"s allegation that she had been shown a cropped

photo of Jack RUBYSthe day before he murdered her son. “(A QS

comp Ticati on compounding this erroneous ‘conclusion was eS

when she had been shown a copy of the same photograp Go" © a ance .
before the Commission, it had been cropped < < n :
~ a slightly different manner.) ; Cue

5. No detail in the Warren _—, report\\lfustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET
O0f24159

PAGE

6 * oe 7 5

COPY NOe meas

 
14-00000

. ; SECRET.

politicized, EN YS terministic interpretive climate that has been :

nurtured ro ja WS the past decade about the kennedy Assassina-
0

i
tion. RY a knowledged now. not to be RUBY, has conti SS to ” ;
ep) Y
ae and has become the centerpiece 9 Se

  

 

is ds OSWALD to have been "framed" by t Rg

double ere in Mexico City.2 &
. A
i & eS
lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City sts &

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in

Mexico City from -the morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of

2 October 1963, at least one set. of photographs of the unidentified man

a,

originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to

acquisition and handling of the photographs by : i

 

dew what the Station ascertained and did with |

i< |
. in '
ry RAY credible evidence known to this time =n

added since

 

Re exhaustively unique work of the Warre

 
 

 

 

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not - |

Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review ;

of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A). !

ee . : : |
{

SECRET

PAGE —_—_
COPY NO. ___—

 
14-00000,

“put together in such a way that it discl

“cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest

SECRET © Doe : : ,

3. The a ed report is not intended to be an
answer to tha\ terwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches t emorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph- i

£ tion and comment on that article,

 
      
 
 
 
   
 

by-paragy pos |
Ve, jore appropriately handled by a sepa- rd ghd |
af x. Belin, and I will prepare this as .¢ ae
Bhat is desired.) ; . hens yet |
be a . . ' TO
Cwwint of the referenced memorandum is | SS Mort
don should be given now to “whether or oy

aKa fe :
maeter can be fully disclosed at this ti@@XXd) Thi Y [elt
on is designed to make it possible fet the

decision. The narrative-interpretive s

  
   
 

  

SS
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However. ts qo
well beyond what has been released to the publN& thus. far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This pdint must
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
‘question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about '
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that'backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-

‘K
I
a

 

developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate re ce to individual items. _[NB: There
is only one co his collection; this is itv]

fx one of the photographs taken We

ends 1963 was introduced into BES

       
    
    
 
  
 
   

c¢ record. However, it wa

d in two cropped versions.

md its staff were made a ae
Se)

r inquiry at Headquarters a!

     
  

 

taken at diferent times in Mexico City a
of full knowledge of these facts reached
clusions regarding the irrelevance of thé
OSWALD and the assassination. - oe .

 

{ /
6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-.
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these arte—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division, : i
2

SECRET

 

0062147 i

we “ 715
- COPY NO. _—————~
104-10087-10165

ee ee <

 

have a beari

SECRET ee

2 May 1975

Chief, Operations Staff

"x We of Agency Holdings regarding
‘eo hotograph of Unidentified Individual
QW in Mexico City published by the
Warren Commission

 

a: : Letter. dated 15 April 1975 by
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to
Mr. E. ‘Henry ° “‘Knoche (copy attached to.
accompanying report)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. The attac isa detailed review in nary aver
chronological o together with he, OsHaLD gO

ary - of our ive holdings on the OSWALD

Ws t tter of photographs

, Qiand G5; October

- Asa consequeng

 
   
 
 

   

evidence in“the OSWALD casé on 23 NovemberN\1963 by an.
FBI representative in Dallas. . The successive vicissi- .
tudes which have now made this. event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

* SECRET.
: } : ER MPD &t sy.

eS

t

0002146

 

 

 

 
14-00000

SECRET wee

had indicated 3 riting to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection fox@Roselin to do whatever is desired with
these photogs ANBE at this time. It should be noted that
fh im 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by
S\N visit to the Agency, two of the

PERG) other than the one already putished
SOmilission report. (It is these at

ee
x AS
Shee in The New York Review of Bo
: enn attaches to.his memorandum,
QS 2
7QN seems to me that whoever mak SS) j
e °

wheth the entire matter can be ful

   
      
       
     
 

  

 
    

_time should bear in mind that a sub Reon must

the background of the photographs 3 ken
publish the entire run of the photo rap S
time without taking out the background. \pbviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?”
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this

fe

   

also be made, i.e., whéther to >

   
 
 
  
 
  

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
  

matter in a fu open and final manner, the better o

we will be as ency. But it is my understandin SS
“that there 111 sensitivé aspects deriving f SEH
fact_that tHe evation which produced the photo

was and asa

. publica at ptime would create additio

at thekore Ss xico. Also, it should b

the Afbas= mccording to Win Scott's

: 2 ovember 1963 (see Item

7 allegedly played a dir

: put the photographs into the

in LY aterally from the Field. As far a
there has ‘not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions

with the State Department about that aspect of the matter..

Raymond G. Rocca
Attachments:

as stated

SECRET

PACE __ ©
COPY a ll

 

f

1
SECRET

2 May 1975

SUBJECT : The Photo of identified Individual in the Warren -
; Conmissi byt: A Factual Chronological Survey

REFERENCE: Memor A S W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,-
RDI19 achment A) .
. A
andum suggests it would be +
Wiosure at this time of the “ee

data relative to the Subject. The purpose Ker

     
  

realistic evaluation of the Suggestion.

Backgr ound

2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped

}

photograph considered by the President! s Commission on the Assassinati on

1
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1.

(together with others of the same individual)

 

1] See Hearings Before the Président's commis EV i i
_of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Wpl. XX, p. 691.

SECRET

0062149

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
