13-00000

file on OSWALD and pass them to us, and the FRI gave us a copy of the
Soviet Consular file on OSWALD which had been publicly given by the Eoviet
Ambassador to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 December 1963, Deputy
Attorney General Katzeubach invited us to review the FBI's comprehensive :
mepert on the case to mike sure our sources vere not jecpardioed and that
owr information vas correctly quoted. We found the report highly
interesting and no threat to our security, as long as it wos read only
vy the authérized investigative bodies.

After the first few days, the CLA Investigation of the case was

bandleda nt Headquarters by a omall staff usually charged with ‘Investigation

’ and snalyais of the sost important security cases, and by a few officers

“end analysts of our Western Hemisphere Division.

Beport 3 From Mecrice
As soon as cur Mexico City Station realized that Lee OSWALD was the

prime suspect, it began re-sereening all the written telephone transcripts
. . a

in its files covering the Soviet Eubassy for the pertinent partod. ‘the

actual tapes were also reviewed, bat many of them had been erased after the
13-00000

Nee

normal two weeks walt. Several calls veLieves to involve OSWALD were
@iscovered and their contents cabled to Washington, vhere they were
disseminated to the White House, the State Departzent, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. a 7
OSWALD's name was not actually mentioned in these additional calls,

but similarity of speech end various plain points of content Link them
to him. ‘These calls are sumarized below in chronological oréer.

mej cover the period froa 27 Septenher 1963 to 3 October 1563, the whole

span of OSWALD's visit to Mexice City as later learned from travel records.

27 September - A man phones the Soviet Military Atteche and

says he needs a visa to go to Odessa. Man enevwering says he shouwla call

15-60-55 and ask for the Consul. Caller asks for the address, and it is
given to him, (‘here is no special reason for Linking this call to OSWALD.)
2] Septenber, h105 PU ~ The Cuban Consulate phoned the Soviet |

Consulate. Silvia Duran, Mextean national clerk of the Cuban Consulate

1 . vy

talked to a Goviet official, saying that a mile Anerican citizen wes at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit viea to pase through Cuba on his way

.

weyees ae
13-00000

 

our overseas stations, and many pleces of information on OSWALD and his
wife had been received back. ‘The Mexico city Station researched its
telephone tape very thoroughly and came up with several more conversations
probably involving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this namej these’.
neg
connected him also to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. Several Mexicans
were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a zood picture
of vbat he was really up to. Many conferences vere hela with the FBI
liaison officer vho asked us for certain ectiona and yaseed us infermation

from the FRI investigation. Om.the minns side, a host of fabricators,

s50me anonymous, bombarded overseas enbasaies with smrdous tips on the case,

- most of which we investicated. All of these are sconm discredited, but they

are still coming in.
hurting this poaso of our wort, ve served primarily in support of the
FEI, which ves entrusted by the President with the major remponstbility for
the investigation. ‘The FAI was too busy to awpply us with much of its
:

ia i * i}
om inforration, bat answers vere given to specific questions we posed to

assist our investigation. ‘The Department of State dia photograph its entire

 
13-00000

 

as the possible assassin and asking for traces. ‘The nessace was passed
on at once by the Chief CI, bh. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Meal of his
Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. Betty Egeter of this Unit immediately
recognised the name of Lee OSKALD and went for bis file. At the sanef _
tine, Hrs. Bustos of the Mexico Desk, vho bad written our firat fepert on
OSKALD on 10 October recognized the naoe from vedio reparts and vent
after the same Tile. Mr. Reichhardt, Mexico Desk Chisf, who vas howe on
leave, heard the newa and phoned in a reninder that ve hea sonething on
OSWALD. While we vere preparing a cable to Mexico City asking them for
more information on OSWALD, Vexico City itself heard OSWALD's name oa the
Yotce of Anerica broadcast and cabled to us a reminder of the informatica
the Station haa sent in on him, |

‘For the next week, @ dozen people in the Agency were continuously
engaged in handling incoming messages on the cese, writing reports to be
cabled out, tracing ths names mentioned, ena researching files, tenia a
ook, 27 cabled reports had gone out to the White Bouse, the State Depurt-
ment, and the FBI. Yeuy cables of gutdance and inquiry hed been sent to

c Ne |
ATS Lb
13-00000

 

Esbassy was not OSWALD anyway. As chance would have it, none of our

several photo obsemtion points in Mexico City hed ever teken en identi-
fdable picture of Lee OSWALD.

our Mexico City Station very often produces information Like thie 7
on US citizens contacting Soviet bloc eubassies in Mexico City. Frequently
the information ve get 1s extresely incriminating, and on one or two
ocersions we have even been able to apprehend and return te the USA
American military persennel who are attempting to defect. In all such
cases, our Headquarters @esk requests and obtaing the special permission of.
the Deputy ptrector for Plans to pass the derogatory inforuation on a US
‘eitizen to other yovernment agencies. Derovatory information on Americans
48 not treated routinely; in cash Sase the DDP or his Assistant personally
scrutinize the snforeation make sure it is credible, and decide vhether and :
to whom it will be passed. Only in absolute exergenciae is the Mexico City 7

Station authorized to pags such information directly to the FBI office in

r ; ' 4

the U.8. Embassy.

At this writing (13 Decenber 1963) we do not know what action the FBI

BURLL
13-00000

sat

 

and other agencies may have taken based on our report. We surmise that the
FBI may have made local checks through Mexican authorities to see if

- Lee OSWALD was actually tn Mexico City on 1 October. Indeed, later in-
vestisation has coufimed all the detatie of his trip, vere he stayed,
end vhat he dia. To avoia crvesing Lines with the FBI, om Mexico Station
undertook no local iuvestigation of its evn. AS ve now nov, OSWALD left

Mexico on 3 October and was no loner there when our report vas put out. .

( Eince this telephone tap operation is @ Joint one
° a soo

the Mexicans also hed the 1 October intercept oa Lee OSWALD, ~).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘but it apparently slumbered in their files until the assassination took

————

* place.

| 22 Hovenber 1963

Wen word of the shooting of Frostdeat Kemsedy reached the offices
of our oporsting étvisions and staffs oa the afternoon of Friday 22 Noes:
ver 1963, transistor radios vere turned on everywhere to follow the
tragedy. Woon the nano of Lee OSiALD vas heard, the effect was electric,

A phone message fren the FBI cane at about the save tine, naming OSHALD
13-00000

 

We Discover Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

CIA did proauce one very significant plece of information on Lee
OSWALD vefore he shot President Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our Mexico
City Station intercepted a telephone call Lee OSWALD made froa someplace
in Mexico City to the Soviet Embassy there, using his own nave. Speaking
broken Russian and using his true name, OSWALD was talking to the Eubassy
eoert, carEnxoT, who often answers the phone. OSWALD said he haa vintted
_ the Iubassy the previous Saturday (25 September 1963) and spoken to a
congal whose name he had forgotten, ana who he@ promised to send a tele-
ers for Lin to Veshtogton, He vented to know if there were raxytising
new.” The guard said {f the consul vas dark it was (Valeriy Viaémirovich)
KOSTINDY. The guard checked vith soncone else and aia that the message
had gone out but no answer had been received. Be then hung up.

This plece of information vas produced froma telephone tap (Ceater?

 

 

 

 

 

{which ve operate Jointly! It

 

 
104-10414-10414

 

Ly

a TewetsssirieD " O) INTERNA ( conFipentiaL =. = (2) SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: .
John M, Wadtten ee
o/wa/3 : Oate
: . 13 Dec. \4b3 isee pt ; 7

Le To
ie OMeer designe! ™ COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
| ronwanoeo | fo whom. Draw @ line across column otter each comment.)

building)

Lf
en ey]

 

This may be usefal te
your analysts whe are processing

     

°

 

fom 610 “sneie (1) Secret a CONFIDENTIAL [[] INTERNAL, «= f)_ UNCLASSIFIED

3-62

Aheosiavomeapseyteny oo
13-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

is highly sccret |
feng

Jou 50 Joint center produces gree

 

 

 

 

 

 

fesses of telephone intercepts inten are transeribed and reviewed by our
small staff in Mexico City. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone converaa-
tion of 1 October had been transcribed and a summary of it cabled to
Washington. The name Lee OSWALD meant nothing special to our Hexico
City Station, but in their report they dia judge him to be on American

The cabled report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked ,
in our files, vbere it vas immediately noted that the Lee OSWALD phoning
‘the Soviet Exbassy tn Nexto City was probably the Lee OSWALD vho haa
defected to the soviet Unton tn 1959 and returned to the USA in 1962. On
10 Cotober 1963, the day after the report from Mexico City, CIA Headquarters
Tent ont sani SHROFE cbout Lee GSuAllite phone call to the Seriet
Enbassy} the report vent to the FBI, the Departuent of State (because
OSHALD vas a W citizen), and to the Havy Deyertuent (oecaute be

former Marine.) ‘The cabled report to these agencies hishlighted the
13-00000

likliheod that the Lee OSWALD mentioned was probably the former defector.
A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand to the Imnigration ana
Naturalization Service, with which we have no cable Link. ‘The seme day
a long cable vent ot to Mexice City inforwing our Station of the back |
ground of defector Lee OSWALD and asking for more information. Our Station
vas instructed to pass its information on the phone call to the Mexico
City offices of the FBI, the Embassy, the faval Attache, anda the Iredgra-
tion ana Tatura tontion Service. This was done.

In its original report of 9 October, Mexico City had said it had a

photosraph of an apparent American mele leaving the Soviet Eubagsy on

1 Coteber 1963, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

tn Vorico City provides us vith sccretly taken photographs of nasy but not

all visitors to the Soviet Enbassy there, taken with telephoto Lenses.

Accordingly, ve cabled the Bavy Department on 2h October 1963 asking for

a photograph of lee CSHALD froa bis Marioe Carpe days 20 we could compare
; , '

protos. We bed not received this photoagh by 22 Rovenbor 1963 bet in

any event, 1t turned. cut that. the man photographed outside the Soviet

a

 
