 

~ $32.35

RADIO TV REPORTS, INC.

: ao oe . 4435 WISCONSIN AVENUE, N.W., WASHINGTON, O.c. 20016 2453

 

 

   

“-Fon .. ;PUBLIC AFFAIRS .STAFF

      
  

Good Mornings America +. STATION,“ OWILA TY 0
pe Yoo fa ABC Network 7

  
  
 
 

     
  
   

‘September 8,. 1977. 7:00 AM “Washington, B.C.”

‘An Intervlew.with Villam Altmans

      
    

 

oe VL: SANDY HYLLs “Eariler this morning, we talked. with VIEbam
9 ¢2) ‘Altmans. > He Is-a Dutch journalist. ‘And we talked to him. ~
- about -the assassInatian’ of ‘President Kennedy. . And Hr. Altmans ...
(thas tofd.us that -earller this week, he turned over to the U. S.o° -
> government the. name of the source who he claims can tell the fulf,
. the. true ‘story of a conspiracy In the assassination. Well, this.
“morning, Mr... ‘Altmans ‘Is Solna to Fell. us the name that he fold .
the - goverment: . a

     

  

 

— SALLE. ‘Wit lamAltmans Is a Dutch journalist who has
spent’ ‘more than .ten years fooking Into the assassination of
President Kennedy. He has besén on this. program twice before,

_ fIrst:to tell us about.hls source George deMorenschIid (7), :

- who’ elther: committed sulcide or was killed just before testifying —
on the. assassinatlon... Mr. Altmans says he now has a new porated :.
witness, and he feels this witness can expose the exIstence and
the details of the conspIracy, to Kilt “President Kennedy- :

 

 

ch letter. to Mr. Altmans -- it was dated July 8th of this

 

year and signed by the deputy chlef counsel of The House Committee .
of Assassinations, Robert Tenenbaum -- says, In part, "lf you

~ are Interested In seeking the truth, and | belleve you are, then
* It seems to me that you have no option but to supply the comm t+ Fee _ men
7 wth the Identity of your new witness."
_ . Well, this week Mr. Altmans did give the name to ‘the.
- committee and to the Justice Departmant. This morning he Is here
‘with me and with ABC correspondent Bob Clark, who. covered the
- Warren CommissjJon Investigation. :

Cd
 

 

 

 

ee ay -2-

: ur. Altmans, what name did you turn over to the comalttea?
Who }s your .source? . . : —

VILLAM ALTMANS: My new source Is General Donald a, Donatdsa:
whose name-| handed .to the Justice Department, as weli as To ne see
Select Committee on Assassinations two days ago. He Is origtnaity

‘a Bulgarian, called Deko Demetroff (7), who came fa this country
at the end of the Secand World War and was named by President
- Roosevelt, by presidential decree, a general of the United States >
of America. He was glven an American name and he was made a cIti~
Zen of the United States of America at that Time. |
. Shortly afterwards, President: ‘Roosevelt used Generat
Dematrott for.secret misslons Into the Balkan area. And President.
: Truman also made use" OF General Demetroff's service.

 

 

   

    

ee What: does: he know?

Jn 28 --ALTMANS: - General Dematroff. claims,” among other. things
“Tn latter ‘that he-sent In’ ‘September of '75 to the committes
of Senator.frank Church, that-he knows the name of the man vha
ordered: the. asgassInat lon. of ohn F. Kennedy.

  
  
 

ow does: he know this?

  

: : -ALTHANS: “That Is what 4 think tha ‘authorities In
Washington. ‘should find out. For that purpose, ! have given, as ~.'- |
full as possible, all ‘Information to both the Justice Department, |

the representative of Mr. Griffin Bell, Robert Keech, and to the

   

 

Select Committee.on Assassinatlons of Congress. f have given ali —

 

‘the Information | could gather over the past years.” And} thinks
-the proper: way now /Is*to.feave It to the author Fr tes ta determine
further detalls. ltt not my Job. . ; a Ss
i” a . , ra
ny “Bos: CLARK: And you have falked at lengths with General .
Donatdson-..e . . .. . : coe

   

 

7 ALTMANS 2. Oh, yes-

"CLARK: Has ‘he revealed the name of the man he regards
as the assassin, the 1 man, who directed the assassInatton, To you?

‘ALTMANS: 1 understand your’ question, Bob. t would like

not to answer that, because | don't want to endanger myself any
further than } am already. As a matter of fact,“! called the

press conference.-~ a press conference a week ago, and | am galng
‘through this procedure In order to pull mysalf out of this master
and leave i+ to the American authoritles.:

7 4 did the same thing with the former witness, George
DeMorenschI!d. 1 pulled out at a certaln momen> when } was satIs—
fled with the Information | handed J+ ta the Select Committee and
ke

“6 if Memorandum - “UNETED STATES GOVERNMENT

70 2
FROM :

SUBJECT:

File .. : — / DATE: 7 February 1952

Horse Allen.

Kelly Case

1. On Wednasday, 30 January 1952, at 9:30 AM, the writer called
Mr.[ ss relative the Kelly case. stated that the OPC

_ official and interpreter had made a trip to Boston and had seen Gladych. :

stated that Gladych and the interpreter had reached completa

 

“accord on the handling of the Kelly situation. then stated

\ + that he was trying to arrange that the Kelly case could be Lined up

oe relative the Kelly case. stated that in OPC at the top” level, —
‘some opposition had arisen to the handling of tha Kelly case in the a
manner that had baen proposed. stated that since this opposition

oe week.

 

completely befora he set up conferences with I & 50 relative the trip

 

to ‘Panamas- (_____] Promised to call the writer at the end of the ae

po

2. - Gn/reornary 19s2 AM coo called the writer

 

 

 

 

of ths higher-ups had arisen, nothing would be done relative the Kelly .
case. (| stated that he would call immediately upon any new oo
Gevelopmsnts along these lines. The writer informed[ |that-

“I & SO would be glad to consider the matter and would wait until it
.wa3 brought up again and would avait his call relative any} new 7 de~
: velopments : .

SS MORSE ALLEN

 

 

 

SHSSSESEENY,
13-00000

patch

- Commant:

_.the Ara would allow tha Agency to have the use of the necessary rooma, ’
medical facilities, etd. as would be required for this type of operation.
At this tims, it was also to ba determined whet ther the sposal of Kelly oe

, Venesnela could in fact be laid on. —

- writer by Me. Walter Driscoll approximately thirty days ago on an in-
* formal basis but no Significant details wers.given ab this’time. _..

Bor” : .
. this

authorities woula“not permit their hospital #o be used for/type of work
and also that 2 re-condit tioning operation of this type might take as.
ong as 30-605 Bannerman further pointe?’ ‘out that somh iP such an
operation were carried on, Security would ‘hava to be cognisant of it,
would have to be co-ordirated into the organSsab$en and would possibly —
take over.and ren the operation themselves since this type of WOr's.

is one 34 which Security handles 7>~ fhm Apne +

: Tt was ‘agreed petween{_} Bannerman,-and the writer that a
conference would be laid on Monday afternoon when OPC representatives.

.and the Bulgarian inkerpreter return from Boston and their talx with
Mike Gladych. At which time, the angles would be explored and a dis-

wsoctsz would be forvardad to cur people in Panama directing. them to
fird out whether the Army would permit suck an operation ard whether ©

 

 

This particular operation was mentioned in general terms to the

  

| While the technique that Ecke and Gladych are considering for use
‘in this cass is not know to the writer, ‘the writer believes the appreach

' will be made through tha standard narco~-hypnosis techniqua. “Re-condi. tioning

and re-orienting an individual in such a matter, in ths opinion of-ths

‘weiter, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal of -

’ time and the = fact that an intezpreter, is necessary in the case coa- ar

_ plicates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present Pa
_. ‘knowledge, we would hava no absolute guarantee that the subject in this

case vould maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though — .
there is apparently_a sucesssful response to the treatment. The writer
did not suggest. tol lenat perhaps a total ammesia could be created -
by a series of electro shocks, but merely indicated that amnesiaS under
arugs treatments were not certain. .

 

 

NORSE ALLEN

 

 
13-00000

Il.

Office of Security File Summary - DIMITROV, Dimitre
Adamov (lyle 0. Kelly) (QKSTAIR) (SHAN/BGCONVOY)

#46165

1. Short Summary of Agency Interest/Use:

The file was opened in October 1950, when DIMITROV
was of operational interest to the Agency while
employed for Radio Athens in Greece. Previously,
DIMITROV had fled from Bulgaria in July 1947. As
of October 1951, DIMITROV was in a hospital in
South America, ‘apparently under Agency, auspices.
In 1956 DIMITROV was brought to the United States,
“apparently after returning to Athens from South
America, and the Agency made no further operational
use of DIMITROV. In June 1960 DIMITROV [under case
#33259--Dimiter DIMITROFF ("Diko")] had contact
with the Contact Division outlining his background,
claiming financial difficulties, and requesting the
Agency back his plans for covert activity - against
- Bulgaria. The Agency apparently took no action in
‘this regard. During this contact DIMITROV claimed
that circa 1951 he was held. in a hospital/cell in
Panama City. .

2. _ Background Investigations: None’

3. Confirmation of ARTICHOKE/ BLUEBIRD /MKULTRA Interest:

No

4. Project Associates: © None

 

 

 
. .
-tpAmoreo Fon Ho. A . . ( arr Teg . iN

° Office Memorandum ° UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT _

XO 3

- FROM ¢

SUBJECT:

File oO a, ‘pate: 25 Jamary 1952

Horse Allen . ow a os bo te ee eee

 

Kelly Case

On Friday, 25 Jamary 1952 > the writer was called to ths office
of Mr. Bannerman for the purposa of a conference with one Mr.
‘Ee /orc, concerning the instant case. . .

- es explained in substance the Kelly: case ag follows:
Rely, (whose real name is Dimitrov) 5 is a 29~year~old Bulgarian and ;
Jwas the head of a small political party based in Greece and Patensispiy

~ working for Bulgarian indapendance. Kelly was deseribed by
as being young, ambitious, bright (elementary collegs education), a
:. gort of a "man-on-a-horss" type but a typical Balkan politician. Ac.

“- cording to Prichett, our people discoverad that French Intelligence

Servics heed. attempting to bribe Kelly and maks him a dovbdle agent and
Kelly was looking with favor upon the French offers. - ccordingly, 2.
~ plot was rigged in which Kelly was told he was going to ke iniateered .
. and as a "protaction", he was placed in custody of: the Greek Police Te Smee
_ Who threw Kelly into a Greek prison. Kelly was held in the Greek prie 9°. !

.3on for six months until the Gresk authorities dscidad that Kelly was -

  

-. a maigance and they told our people to take hin back. Since onr

people were unabla to dispose of Kelly in Greace, they flew hin to ~
Panama where, through arrangement, ha was placed in a U.S. Military
Hospital as a psychopathic patient. Kelly now has been in tas U.S.. ;
military hospital for several montcs and the hospital authorities now ;
‘want to get him out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering -

* a . other patients, _ ate. Kelly is not § a psychopathic personality.

pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military

: explained that they can dispose of Kelly by. the simple
process of sending him to a friend of his in Caracas, Venezuela, and
as far as they are concerned, that.type of disposal is perfeetly o.k.
However, because of his confinement in a Greek prison and his stay in ©
anilitary hospital, Kelly has become very hostile toward ths United
States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, OPC is

 

considering an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see if it-would ve

possible to re-orient Kelly favorably toward us. This operation, which .
will necessarily involve the use of drugs is being considered by OPG © 2
with a possibllity that Dr. Ecke and Mike Gladych + will carry out the :
operation presumably at the military hospital in Panama. Also in- :
volved in this would be a Bulgarian interpreter who is a consultant ee
to this Agency since neither Reke nor Gladych speale Bulgarian. iy “ :

 

- Mr. Bannerman pointed ont tof) that this types of operation -
could only be carried out with the authorization of Securlty and that,
‘under no circumstances whatsoavsr, conld anyones but an authorized M.D.
administer drugs to any subject of this Agancy of any type. Bannsrman

   
 

October 7 » 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Anthony A. Lapham

FROM '  : A. R. Cinquegrana
. Office of General Counsel

SUBJECT : BLUEBIRD/ARTICHOKE Soft File Review - "Kelly" —
7 Dimitrov, D.A.

1. Lhave been reviewing summary sheets prepared by the Office of
Security concerning several hundred soft files on individuals associated,
or considered for association, in some way with the Agency's BLUEBIRD/
ARTICHOKE activities. In the course of that review I came upon the follow-
ing case which I discussed with Dick Lansdale and which we agreed should
be brought to your attention for your information and whatever action you
may deem appropriate. : :

2. As is indicated in the attached copy of the soft file summary and
the 27 January 1952 memorandum upon which itis based, D. A. Dimitrov,
designated "Kelly," is a Bulgarian expatriate who appears to have been
imprisoned in Greece some time in 1950 and 1951 on false pretenses because
the Agency feared he would accept an offer from French Intelligence. After
six months in custody, he was flown to Panama where he was misrepresented
as a psychopath and confined in a U.S. Military Hospital for several months.
The official security file shows he-was then removed from the hospital and

. held by the Agency at Fort Clayton in Panama for three years. He was then

returned to Greece and ultimately allowed to enter the U.S. as a refugee.
It appears from the attached copy of a 7 February 1952 memorandum that. .
the "Artichoke approach," i.e., the use of drugs to reverse his hostility
toward the U.S. and U.S. intelligence agencies, was never consummated.

3. This man has had several contacts with the Agency since coming
to the U.S. In 1961 an Assistant to the DCI was contacted by a representative
of Parade magazine who had been informed by Dimitrov of his confinement
by the Agency. The Office of Security responded to the effect that this man
was disreputable, unreliable, and full of wild stories about CIA.’ As you
will note from the attached transcript of an 8 September intetview on Good
Morning America, Mr. Dimitrov (now General Dimitrov and known as General
Donald A. Donaldson) apparently is alive and alleging that he knows who’
ordered the assassination of President Kennedy.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10404-10094

<&.

IT] UNCLASSIFIED

{ :

SUBJECT: : {Optional) ~.

   

“INTERNAL:
“USE ONLY

" ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE

   
      

 

“-(] ConFIDeNTaL 0. (secret.

 

 

 

   

 

 

"EXTENSION

 

 

 

OFFICER'S] COMMENTS [Number each comment to show from when”
; Diew o fine across column after each comment.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

1 use tity CQ - unctassiFiep
 

 

4, Based solely upon the soft file summary, and prior to reviewing
the official security file from which I extracted the additional details, it
appeared to me that the nature of the Agency's treatment of Dimitrov might
be something which should be brought to the attention of appropriate
officials both within and outside the Agency. The fact that he is still
active and is making allegations connected with the Kennedy assassination ©
may add yet another dimension to this story. :

Attachment

 

 

 
   
   

i.
2.

.Soft File Summary

Title of File: Kelly

Brief Biographic Data: Kelly's true name is
DIMITROV, a 29-year-old Bulgarian who was head of
a small political party based in Greece and
ostensibly working for Bulgarian independence. —

Nature of Relationship/Interest: . It was learned
that French Intelligence Service was attempting

to bribe KELLY and make him.a double agent and

Kelly appeared to be interested in the French offers.
Accordingly, a plan was made to have KELLY believe
that he was going to be assassinated and for protec-

...tion he was placed in custody of the Greek police

who then put him in prison. KELLY was held in. the
prison for six months until the Greek authorities

decided that KELLY was was a nuisance and they told

our people to take him back. - He was then flown to

‘Panama where; through arrangement, he was placed in
aU. S. military hospital as a psychopathic patient.

According to the 25 January 1952 memorandum, KELLY

_had been in the hospital for several months and the’ | ae
-_ hospital authorities want him out since he is causing :

problems. He is not a psychopathic personality. en
Because of his confinement in a Greek prison and his © :
stay in a military hospital, KELLY became very hostile

toward the United States and our intelligence: opera-

tions in particular.

orc was considering an "ARTICHOKE" approach to KELLY
to see if it would be possible to reorient KELLY
favorably toward us. However, OPC advised on

2 February 1952 that some opposition had arisen in .
the top level of OPC to the handling of the KELLY
case in the manner that had been proposed. Since
this opposition had arisen, nothing would be done

to the KELLY case.

Period of Relationship: No dates supplied

' Indications of Drug Experimentation: None found |

Co-optce Interest: Not indicated

Vere pm a AK abet 3 . . . : : , -
weawee te srt Vateans Cpessible} Dr. “Robert Fcoke
~_ .

 
