eo SECRET

organization be processed as a assassination record, and that the remainder of the ClA Ramparts Memorandum be declared NBR. The
memorandum discusses the truth or fallacy of the allegations in Ramparts the Agency used non-governmental organizations for support
and funding of worldwide anti-Communist operations. Over one hundred organizations are mentioned in the Ramparts article. The
televant organization is the International Rescue Committee; the IRC aided Oswald on his retumn to. the US.

6. Book Cables Dissemination Lists:

The Board accepted the Agency's request that book cable dissemination list be protected in full even if they contain stations
that are releasable. :

7. Document # 104-10072-10232 :

The Board rejected the Agency's request to protect the full crypt (anticn The document has been sent to the DO for
teconsideration{appeal review.

8. Other Documents:

The Board accepted the Agency's and ARRB staff's recommendations on 204 additional documents.
Reconsideration and Appeals: .

if the Agency wishes to ask the Board to reconsider a decision or plans to appeal to the President, the ARRB staff has
requested that it be notified prior to the letter to the Agency informing the DC! of the Board's decision. We expect the letter on o7 around

Dec. 1st; the Board's determinations will also be pubfished in the Federal Register on that date. As mandated by the White House, the
Agency has seven days after notification to appeal a JFK Board decision to the President.

ce: [poo
Kathryn Dyer @ OCI
Becky Dyer @ DA

Sent on 21 November 1997 at 05:04:45 PM

SECRET
 

ae SECRET k cop \

CL BY:611637

Ch REASOR: Section 1.6 €
pecs om X1

ony seat COV 2-87

21 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira @ DCI
: Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
Lee Strickland @ DA
oct

FROM: __ J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: CSUHRE
SUBJECT: ARRB meeting 17 November - Results
REFERENCE:

1. Reconsideration of the release of ;Warrenton'as CIA Records Center:

 

The Board accepted the Agency's request for reconsideration; postponed until 2017. ,
2. ClAuse fh
The Board did not-find the Agency's evidence persuasive; released.

This determination affects 16 documents { 3 duplicates} that were pending Board action. Future documents will be impacted by this
decision. Copies of the documents have been sent to 00 and OGC for reconsideration/appeal review.

3. Release date of Nosenko NBR records:

The Board moved the release date from 2017 to 2010 giving the Agency the right to review and appeal at that time,
4. Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) Financial Records:

The Board accepted the ARRB staff’s recommendation (concurred in by CIA) that only “General Statement for Month” records
for January 1960 and to January 1995 be processed as Assassination Records, and that the approximately 6,000 remaining pages of
financial records be declared to have “no believed relevance (NBR)" to the JFK assassination.

5. Ramparts Damage Assessment Document:

‘The Board accepted the ARRB staff's recommendation {concurred in by CIA) that the paragraphs on the one relevant

SECRET
