14-00000

‘

 

 

 

- UL 8 Bxt7/D
OC Lala LCL
18 June 1964” c

f
v

 

+ Ray
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, PM Branch, edhe A

Ret . .
- FROM : Chief, Training Branch, JMWAVE < ;
SUBJECT : Training Evaluation Report on AMTRUNK Team —

I. Ouring the period 20 May through 5 June 1964, the AMTRUNK
Team was given training by Alton T. PIRNACK and John K, TARTARILLO
at Safesites #211, #216, and #116, in the following PM Subjects:

A. Map Réading .:

1. Introduction to Map Reading
ot 2¢ Marginal Information

3. Grid Coordinates ete |
MIT RTFILMEO

4, Measuring Distances
SEP 2554 |

5. Azimuths
7, Contour Lines and Elevation Per ae |
8, Silva Compass | poe. meno.ssnt

6. Intersection/Resection
B. Caching .

eS

1. Introduction

2. Operational Uses of Caching

3. Steps Taken in Caching

4%, Site Selection

§, Site Requirements

6. Site Locations

7, Methods of Caching “
8 Packing :
9. Recovery

10. 12 Point Report

C. Weapons:

1. M-2 Carbine

2. 1918 A-6 LMG

3, FAL “
&, Swedish "K" SMG

§. M3AlL SMS w/Silencer

6. Gna Pistol

D, Right Movement exercises consisted of observing and

reporting oa the Experimental Paint Laboratory, farm Labor Camp,
and the Princaton Packing Plant. :

: regrwed APOK
Seen

v
a arn
eatedss Hes pap

 
 

v

- the student lecture periocs, He

   

. Nao bh bee:
2. A Daylight Observation and Reporting exercise wa6
conducted against a Surface to Air Missile site.

II, Team Evaluation: : tn

During this -period of re-training, the AMTRUNK Team performed
in an overall satisfactory manner. Two team members did not
perform up to the Team's overall demonstrated proficiency, however,
the continued strong leadership on the part of AMICZ/14 should
raise the competence of the two weak team members, The team
members are quite compatible, and espirit de corps is good. Their
motivation and morale is high. The AMTRUNKS were safety minded

icing good security at the safesites and during

on the range, practic1
night movement exercises.

‘Yxr. Individual Evaluations:

A. AMICE/14 - TA - "DAVID"

David is a personadle young man in fair physical condition,

possessing above average intelligence. He has the ability to

leara and retain material without difficulty. Due toa tooth

extraction and subsequent complications, he was unable to parti-

cipate in the following training activities: Class work; 20, 21,

and 22 May and 3 June.. Night ‘Exercises; 22, 26 ané 28 May.

David possesses the ability to express himself clearly. During
lectured and anstrered questions

with confidence and knowlecgeability. David has the further
iled instructions with

ability of understanding anc executing detai
a minimum of effort. His approach to training was positive. His
motivation and morale was good; his interest and enthusiasm
outstanding. David performed very well in the map and compass
phase of training. He can accurately ground navigate, read

coordinates, measure distances, and, locate unknown positions
+ the one night

using intersection and resection. His report
exercise he participated in, was too general, lacking important
details. on the target observed. With more practice, David's
hould show marked improvement. In the
Davie had no difficulty with terrain move=
ment, having a good sense oF direction. He was able to use all
available points of reference to the maximum, In Caching theory
ne did exceptionally well, as indicated by his test score of 34%.
This is a good example of David's ability of retention, since most
Jace while he was absent. David had
disassembly of weapons. He
trated good marksmanship on the range, and is quite safety
As the leacer of this Team he demonstrated initiative,
and maturity.

pense, Seis con eaey
@uring trainifig Was Satisiactory. -

 
   
 

 
   
    

   
  
 
 
 
 

 

 

  
 

     

’ ae ea
. rp NN ae .
. : Par) -
é
“s 2
: continues to te pleessntj intellicent, articulcste,
« seric CUS, pet ien » hard workin Nge sensible, excellent sense of
{ turer Sisco:ferts well and is self diseisiined. He ceoz reted
! fully structor oud nainteined excellent rel ations vith Bis teace
notes ne does not erpecr to be u stron, egcreceive lesder, yet
ke hes no trowel Eetting the others to obey hin and he coasistestly ceezs
the nossle hikk of the entire croup
Sitheugh Sub sect ig not shrewd by acture, he scexs to shoreucaly
. a ing clsniestine onerqtions. Ne czernly stet
. fa mony yeers Torcens ccotivities, he micht
' Al Tdevste. ‘the rest of his life to Inte or gence Ozcrations.

$. Cf course, he still wiskes that F2FRIKS would discard ite
more actively enrages in sil canner of viclence to overthrow

scruples end
regize in bis country.

the ext sting

 

 

 

ee ar i ee a,
ml oo. Woe |
Hie lioy

TOOL

MIGROFILMED J-

   
 

 

 
   

Chief, PM Branch, JMWAVE i
Mre (Irving N. PEGGINS) ys

   

Chief, Training Branch, JMWAVE
AMICE/14 = TA » "DAVID"

 

 

gue

 

(eae fron G0S/sHKaY.

 

 
     

&

   
    
 
 
 
   

 

pigeon

red b. BLRMENS (oa

 
 
 
 

 

 
  
 

 

ons, Resort

 

Instruction methods wsed iacluded triofl

fmee

eases, live preetice2 probjene, and essigne

Se
: treining group were AMACREE/1, AMAKA/},

 

 

    
  
 
  

chenge of ce

f .0c0 reasts

   

     
 
 
  

 

on : asere St
mm ive clencesth
 

 

*

288

i)

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, PM Branch, JMWAVE

FROM : Chief, Training Branch, JMWAVE
SUBJECT : Training Report.on AMTRUNK Group

 

I. During the period 4 through 15 March 1963, the AMTRUNK Group
composed of four members was given two weeks training in Clandestine
Yethods and Techniques -by Andrew S$. PARMERS at Safehouse #164,

411 instruction was given in the Spanish language. The Training course

included the following: .
A. Introduction to the Training Course

3. Instruction and Discussions on Personal and Operational
. Security; Cover and Compartmentation; Clandestine
Comalnications; Agent Spotting; Selection; Investigation
Recruitment and Management; Cperational Planning and

Reporting.

in addition, the trainees were given the "Introduction to

' Claridestine Operations," "Espionage Cases," and the functions and

organization of "Soviet Security Services," for supplemental
reading and study.

The training also included, groun discussions anc participation
in a series of appropriate operational situations Gesigned to teach

' operational planning techniques, Several live problems were worked

out by thé students themselves, to acquire experience in applying
clandestine operational techniques. On Sunday, 10 March, an all day
exercise in Agent Meeting, Casing, Selection of Dead Drops and
Surveillance was held in the city of Key West.

The group eagerly participated in the daily physical training,
which included calisthenics, volley ball, swimming and long hikes,

If, Team Evaluation:

The team asa whole, were highly motivated, recentive,
conscientious, energetic and ccoperative. They participated eagerly
in all training and social situations, No friecion was notec among
‘the group, Although there was abundant discursion ane even occasional
cisazreement a-ong each other, there was no violent argument noted,

 

To the instructor they were polite, respectful, considerate and friendly.
Eased on individual performances. of the tean members, the team as a
whole was satisfactory. . a

if ADE -
ae Wy
 

 

B. AMICE/14 ~ TA. “David parpo*

David's comprehension of material

in discussion an Pp
average. In train:

iciency in the a

 
   

sperational mission

David is very 4
to participate in _discussio
mentally and physically alert,
Teanmates and resourceful in solving Dp
rerorts in Spanish, has many of the e
individual, Politically he is very conscious, a keen
£000 analyst of current Latin American aff
criticizes, perrorns his duties even wh

a
he has had abundant
Present and >.

   

Eecause
and is not in a hus
clancestinely,
committed to fulfiz

eFHW/h Uap. 79

 

Pacts
ng problems ‘rec
readily cevised realistic solution

tly, by his own an

Te

erested in procedures recommenced
ulty operations and to relate new

isereet, tends
Subject is
non-agzressive
roblems.

presented, as

» 4nd ready to analyze >

techniques to hi:

expévience in clandestine

 

have caused many of
ae sow he hones to

ne

ry

sions

his close comrades to

accomplish
Scance fron XUBARX,

is

Soin

more and

more obje

 

“ARG position in the
Wy targets, in and out of jail,

to keep silent unt
intelligent,

in his relatio

airs, Steady temp
én under stress,

d his teammates admiss

activities a

These experiences
to Operate more securely and
Previous failures have épparentiy
to Central and North

suffer arrese

Still survive fo

stive than his teammates

S$ homeland,
Present regime and

<

PAGsaFiscree

  
  
 
 

niphe be able

 

i
He held a mide

toan

revealed

cal exercises, indicated that he is above-
operational Planning he
iding for Security and

He is highly motiva

ted,
revious

S present

il called

serious,

nships with

He writes excellent
armarks of a professional
observer and a

er, seldom

ion,
gainst
have

ferica

anc even
llowing

i operations
20 operate
re

- 38733 7
 

Feeeenremeeeeaeeetins eS
: CLASSIFICATION

 

eaten et Mo ol AND NUM

   

CONTINUATION OF i °
; KAPOX/SECRET

DISPATCH

3. Due to the above mentioned restrictions on Aw-14's
activities, and to his strony motivation to continue actively
to particiocte | in fighting Cas strois=/Communisis, it is felt
that his st contribution could be made in the studeat
ficld in tia vanerica. Subject studied alzest four years~at
tke University of Mavana, aiming for a law degree. It is con-
sidered that ke would need at least two years tore of study to
gbtain his decree at another university. Subject is of white
isa extraction and might pass as a native of anothor Latin
try. He cones from a formerly well-to-do educated fanily
from the upper class of Cuban society. Transnittcd as Attach-
nent #5, Under Séparate Cover, is a copy of P2Q Part I on Sub-

ject.
4. ANICE-14 has received the following training at JLVAVE:

 
  

A. FI Tradecraft. Two 3-week full-tino sessions with
TDY KUROAR instructor from Headquarters.

B. Basic PY to include map and conpass, caching,

weapons (Browning 9 oa, pistol, 33 cal. revolver,

H-3 SUNG and Swedish “X" Distol, and FAL rifle),

patrolling, etc. Oricizal <. course early

1963 and frequent rofizcsher 5 since. ‘Note

that Subject was not trainee sseiors Sing or SOTMOPIC)
. o

  
   

,G. Maritime. - Navigatioa, elanccrcine Maritime reo

* ception techniques, use of netascc::s, beacons,
safety equipment, etc., small boat kb ing (from 13°
Boston Whaler with sinsie silent outb' a to 17°
Wraler with twin 75 ip. outboards to V-20). Initial
two-week basic course in early 15C3 and frequent re=

. £xresher sessions since.

 
 
   

 

D. Geeret Veiting. Taitial course of ‘lus
refresher sessions prior to eaca indiltration Bs tenpt.

  

E. One-Way-Voice-Link (OQUVL) radio conmunicatisrs.
Basic course plus refresher prior to cach infilaration.
F. Ground Photography. One veek course nid-1°64 with
Pentax cancra.

G. First 4i¢. Sasie course carly 1063 plus several
‘refresher sccsions .

at for the
basic in-
aile a menber
at _the tine

ll. In addition,
ANTIUNE project,
struction in dcx

 
   
 
  
 
 
 

   

3 are training repox
vations on his canabiliti.s, pore
sonality and leadership.

  

att By ag
5. Vue follaving is a brick’ eynopsis of ANICU-1' opera=
tional activities at JMAVE.

  
  
  
 

Nooperation ins

Fron the first successful runniny of the 1"
Hus crenus

July 1008 through the fifth in Larch 1654 (ci
poctponeucnts and abortive attenpts because of hes, alerts,
culties with the Intervediate Craft, etc.), W0ICl-Llt has
orzec the following tachs azong others urcer actual operas
lec..-itiong insids Cuva: recruited t.o helevel SOrin-e
Acecats in Havana sckl os rumerous -
a and im the ANY. infil/exfiltssr
; to tro of these assets who are still re,
Of the above-conttomed D/A for traini ¢ SILAYN og
“dled the successful Oyen ae dnfititration of this

   

 
  
   
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

      

   
  

   

 

 

    

— : tease

usc easviove cation, | KAPOX/SiC..

 

 
 

104-10247-10060

* .

' RETURN TS GIA

1 ‘oe 2

 
   

NFO

FROM

DISPATCH

hate

C3

_ : Background Us
' IS NOE Heproduee _
oo os yf

  
  
   

  

- LAS CATES
xapox/secret [7 f
4
COS, Santiago; COS, Buenos Aires;
COS, Montevideo; COS, Caracas

Chief, WH j ns
Deputy Chief, WH/SA sysce 4% AB WOM ve Poperareriny

     

GMY Quasi

 

wenct” DYVOUR PBRUMEN Operationa

Possible Utilization of ANICE-14 in Student Activities

ACTIOM REQUIRED - REFLRENCTS

  
  
  

Action Required: Request Station Interest and Comments.
PRIORITY

_1. SUMMARY. This dispatch contains a proposal for the re-
location of a highly competent, trained, experienced JMWAVE
agont, ANICE-14, to another BH area where he could be utilized
in student activities while completing his educational credits
for a law degree. Subject’s effectiveness can no longer be fully
utilized in the. JMWAVE area; it is proposed that his unique
training and qualifications may be of utilization to another
KUBARK Station. : -

: 2. JUWAVE Station is currently utilizing a principal agent,
AXICE=14, who appears to be particularly well-qualified for use
in student activities in a Latin American university. AHICE-14
has been a JMVAVE agent since February_1993. Prior to his being
recruited by the Station, he had nade ten clandestine trips into
Cuba. In the year and a half sinte His “¥éériftuent, he has made
five more clandestine trips-uncer Station direction. He has re
ceivod extensive FI and’ PM training. He has recruited a number
of agents for the Station, both inside and outside of Cuba, up to
and including one high-ranking ofzicer in the preseaot Cuban
Government. We has shown outstanding ability anc initiative in
«il these activities. Unfortunately, 4-14 is nov co knowledgeable
of several interlocking operations currently in teing inside
Cuba, due to his direct participation in these projects, that
JLVAVE can no longer continue to allow A~14 to make any further
black infiltrations, despite his strong desire to continue doing
so. A~14 has been told that for the protection of the intornal

assets he must make no further infiltrations. ooo

 

: :
Attachnents: SEP 25 od '
Training Report Dtd 21 Mar 63 - H/T ~ Att. 1. nose |
Training Report Dtd 20 Dec 63 = H/¥ - Att. 2. [| SOC. MCHO SER |
Training Report Dtd 18 Jun G4 ~— U/W ~ Att. 3. 20
emo for Record Dtd 14 Jul 64- H/W ~ att. 4. Joy- 3u 7337

eer
i

PRQ Part X = USC — Att. 5. “Thea [ora
Distribution: ___ tS a2p__ | 8 Sept 64 SEP 23 1984

2 - COS/Santiago WAntts.7 OLS, an SYWEORL At ia
2 = COS/Buenos Aires w/atts® Uo/- GFZ gl COTM rem SO meme
UFGL-17794

 

      
 
 
     
     
    

 

 

~ COS/Nontevideo w/atts. 7

2 Chin esate. sree

DC/WH/SA w/atts. — ' iti 201-267337
: Vody

2
2
a

   
   

 
- of CONTINUATION OF i weepe-r) se
DISPATCH | xape: S/SICRE
.
el

 

 

; vated four J VE/FI agents who vere being actively
nt by the Cuban security services (and since tho group vas
foreed to exfiltrate prematurely, navipated a suall boat 125
miles fron the northera coast of Cuba to the U.S. using oaly a
d; afiltrated One of the abovejnertiened P/as and
‘ nich included 3 suall children; and brouviat in to the
AUTAUNX infil/fexfiltration area a eacke of anpre iauately 266 lbs.
of wor1pens and explosive devices and arranged the onvard trans-
portation of the cache contents to Havana. Durisz this oscration,.
the tean was fired upoa by a patrol boat at the inf filtration
* channel. Tho tean returned the fire, killing tro crev menbers .
ti.2 patrol boat, and escaped unkarued throush an alternate channe.
whore they waited out tho subsequent area alert and exfiltrated
after exuplacing the cache. To accomplish the above, AUICS-14 has
had to matze contact and re-contact arranzjenents, clandestine per-
sonal meetings..and to coordinate the efforts of a variety of ine
ternal support cloments.  AICI-14's principal duties as P/A in the
SAVES area have been: spotting and developing new azent candi-
cates; GeurleZing of refugees from the ANTRONK infil/exziltration
eo, area assisting the C/O to prepare S/ii messages to existing
SERIRE internal assets; assisting in the training of AN UNE tean
nombers and assisting in the planning of subsequent ALTRUNK
operations.

   
 
  

 

G. Transnitte’ as Attachzent #1 is an ac cssment of ALICE-14
writton by his case officer in CL1iy ic Suortliy after A\e14 ys:
first approached with the idea oF 30S: to a WH country
to work as a XUDARK agent in stud on the general
concept was initially broach ptive to the
idea but asked to continue 2° = activity

  

  
   
 
 

 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
    
 

 

   
  
 
 

  

   
  
   
   

in the hope that he would be oc infiltration.
In September, A-14 ve-opened officer,
stating that he would like to b <i7 into
student activities. It has bec Avlt that

if such a transfer wore to be
go to whatever docality %
entirely responsive to Mune
has agreed to these stinulations.
that when originally reeruited 1-14
*vorking with, not working for"
ereated a control provlea, alex
work it did necessitate caresul
year this attituce on his part hk:
the point that he conpaotely
strong basis of mutual trus
and his caso officer. Int
is overthrowa and
f2ICLi-14 can be exnoctod to 3
any nov cover ment. It is ¢
2 eabinet post within the ei

a oarpaniadetone it is honed
ject can be maintained and strez
devolopzuent.

  
   
 

 

   
  

     

  

 
 

7. Alithow~.
. awd oe

     
 

lity, so genersn
able to retain a

 
      
  
 
 

edt
(33 0 peer

  

ee Stations waivico JD
their interest in utilindi

t activities.

   

ated the
vaience

in thede avroa in stude

 
        
 
 
 

       

 

oar

  
 

CLASS Fic a rs

      

i EAPO,

(che CONTINUED

 

 

 

 

  
  
   
    
            
     
 
        
  
  
    
  
   
   
      
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
    
     
       
 
 
   
   
   
 

 

    
  
   

    

SUBPATCN Siac. BAU MOLA

CAML 7794

COAST FI SATION

 
 

 

 

“”

tics, anti-Cen-

 

    
  

vould be coually good ia

munist student organization, stucent foone-seu. activities, or
the eirection of covert ssatting and reeruit nm Z in tke university.
Subject cculd not possibly cass as Dro-Casiza for the purpose of
hinseolf infiltrating 2 Csstro-oriontied Stucont group; 2 checl: of

     

HZ area would reacily

his background ia either Ceba or the IL
tha Ststion be-

indicate he was violently anti-Castro,
licves that Subject'’s e231 at by Ni
evhor Cubans in this gro2
SSeebs lavotwed in the AUTRUN operation, a kasiful of
have been approached by 4-14 but turned-dewn tke recrultzent
pitch, and scne JEVAVE indigenous naritine assets. It is the
Station's intention to have A-l4 pasS the word anonzt taese witting
elexents that he has kad a Shorp falling-out with KU , is
quitting cozpletely, and leavirz the area, at such tire as plans
are made to have him rove.

         
     

 
   
 

        

9. Subject is now making a salary of $160. per month fron
SUEAVE. He hes no outside income, Wis fatheF“is dead, his
mother still inside Cuba, and the fanily fincnees are at rock
botton. Considering that Subject hes « fanily, it is requested
that interested Statiozs advise the mount of salary which could
be offered commensurate with nares living costs and Eubject's ex-
perience. Travel costs fron E to 2 Ti ates can be borne
by DAVE. Subsequent expenses would hare to Ze Sorss oy the
Station taking over the asont. Cover for i's source of
income should be sucgested by tl. interes.
cational grant, “scholarcnin", ov similer

 

 

    
  
 
  
 

 

 

16.0 ANTCE-14 can
notice. It is hoved t
certainly prior to the oszen
Yoersity he gocs to sheulé s
at nid-senester at a univers
year. Coruents are also rec
the university. .

echool

 

   

 
    
   

 

 

 
