Be
QHTS IS VERY IMPORTANT AND NOT A BAD JOKE!
25/11-63.

The President of the United States of America, John F Kennedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald by direct order of the government of
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. "Now all is over" was password

to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist but he

 

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. When Lee H Oswald had returned fo USA we
contacted him anew and freshened up his ming “you have been a spy
for us" and told him what could happen to him if FBI got informed.
Now we had him. He got his last information in Mexico. /It was not
good to assassinate Kennedy in liexico/ “Fair Play for Cuba" was
- started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro for the as=
ssassinated. Our government thought that USA should attack Cuba
when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the assassine
‘ation. When Cuba was attacked by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend
himself. It that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for A~
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this war and whole the world should be Communistic. Then we should
assassinate Krustjev and other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader
of the NEW WORD. When this letter will reach you they have maked
away with me and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is anghinese spy-shool.
My name is Ryo Liang Yiian. Officer in the department, for State-secret.

etc rere enna cena enumerates ae iW nent aati jG R EMERSON nA eae

If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to USA.

 
 

  
   

 

sign ZO IKE
| 18 vec ws

° MEMORANDUM ‘FOR: TSp/DB/5
eee

: AUTENEION:

© SUBJECT: ‘Technical 2 Analysis of Letter and Envelope

 

 

ue 1. Attached is a letter » mailed to ‘the American Embassy in
'*, Stockholm -purportedly from an officer in the Chinese Communist

 

} Embassy in Stockholm. Also included is the envelope and a plain
' folded. sheet of paper which presumably was used to enfold the

> letter within the envelope. Please perform a technical analysis
. of thése attachments to determine whatever can be determined

_ concerning the origin of the paper, envelope, typewriter, and -

oink used. If you have any capability for comparing this letter
with other correspondence originating with the Chinese Communist
- Embassy in Stockholm, we would like your’ opinion on whether or,

' not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type

 

 

S normally used by that Embassy.

: a. Because’ of the ‘sensational nature of the contents of

. the’ letter and the necessity for our checking out such allega+-

a tions as quickly and thoroughly as possible, it is requested .
_ that this technical analysis be undertaken on a priority basis

and that the undersigned. by notified by shone ‘as s00n as any:

; ‘conclusions are reached.

| 3s Please “acknowledge the receipt of the attached letter
-and ensure: that its whereabouts, when in your custody, is a

‘matter of record. We prefer that the letter and envelope be:
MOPS ‘as intact as poselble while undergoing technical snelyele,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

  
 

    

   
  

  

   

aL
. ¥
i TO eg et, SS
os 99.53
&£ Hi
“y E
sareey ae ti American Embassy
nee ERSASSY OF ThE Strandvagen 101
/aNTED STATES or ARIERICR — STOCKHOLM No
MAIL ROOM | . . “
STOCKHOLM:
4 SEED SEY SS AE AEE Se AE AS

 
