74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

20 JUL 1278
MEMORANDUM FOR: Legislative Counsel
ATTENTION: Mr. Scott Breckinridge

FROM: Robert W. Gambino
Director of Security

SUBJECT: Investigation Regarding Any Use of
- Drugs in.the Case of Yuriy Nosenko (U)

(S) Forwarded herewith are the results of interviews
and records search conducted by Raymond M. Reardon of the
Office of Security concerning the issue of the possible
use of drugs in the case of Yuriy Nosenko. This material
was compiled at your request in order to be prepared for
any inquiries regarding this matter which may be raised by
the House Select Committee on Assassinations. It is known
that Yuriy Nosenko has communicated to the House Select
Committee on Assassinations his belief that he was subjected
to the use of drugs during the period of his confinement by

‘the Agency.

iene tbebeg

oo Robert W. Gambino
Attachment ; )

E2 IMPDET

SE al j
 

 

+1" COMMENTS (Number?e
: to “Whom. —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

" @ETURN TO: CIA. .
* tpacke round Use Only
Do Not Reproduce.

 

 

 

62 or . SECRET es I
.

pee SECRET

Investigation Regarding Any Use

of Drugs in the Case of Yuriy Nosenko

 

On 12 and 13 July 1978, the below listed members of the
Office of Security who served on the teams involved in the
detention and safeguarding of Yuriy Nosenko were interviewed
regarding their knowledge of any possible use of drugs by
Agency personnel during the entire period of incarceration
of Nosenko. The below listed individuals served at both the
Clinton, Maryland, facility and the facility which was
located at ISOLATION. All of the individuals indicated that
they had no knowledge or reason to. believe that any drugs
other than routine medication were ever administered to
Nosenko during the period of his incarceration from April
1964 until October 1967. Several of the individuals recalled
that Nosenko complained from time to time that his food was
being drugged; however, since they prepared the food they
were certain that this was not true.. The individuals inter-
viewed were:

 

 

lngquuo’

 

 

 

oseph F. King
John T. Harzinefon

 

 

3 Billy Hix

3u
i oseph P- meraorig

On 20 July 1978 Atherton (Pete) Noyes, III was inter-
viewed concerning any administration of drugs to Nosenko.
Noyes related that he was a junior case officer on the
Nosenko case and was present at Clinton, Maryland, during
the hostile interrogations conducted in April 1965. He
was also present during the interrogation conducted by
Nicholas Stoiaken at ISOLATION during October 1966. Noyes
was absolutely certain that no drugs had been administered
to Nosenko during these interrogations. Furthermore, Noyes
was convinced that no drugs had ever been administered to

 

 

 

 

 

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 007472

_ SECRET
“op
74-00000

me SRE

Nosenko during the period of his incarceration. Noyes
recalled that from time to time Nosenko had complained
about being drugged but he did not believe there was any
basis for these complaints.

Noyes recommended that Thomas Ryan of DDO/SE Division
and Paul Dillon, currently assigned to the Domestic Training
Station, be interviewed for further confirmation of the fact
that no drugs had ever been administered to Nosenko for
other than routine medical purposes. (Since Mr. Ryan is
currently scheduled to be interviewed by the House Select
Committee on Assassinations, he has not been interviewed
at this time; however, it is known that Mr. Ryan has informed
George Kalaris, Chief; SE Division, that he is certain that
no drugs other than routine medication were ever administered
to Nosenko.) :

 

The question of whether Nosenko has ever been administered
any drugs for interrogation purposes has been the subject of
previous research by the Office of Security. Attached to this
report is a memorandum dated 4 August 1975 reporting the
results of the Office of Security's previous research. This
research, confined basically to a review of the logs maintained
by the Security personnel in charge of Nosenko's custody,
disclosed no evidence of the use of drugs during any of
Nosenko's interrogations.

 

SECRET
