74-00000

 

Upy

 

4. The Inspector General has also recommended that the Mexico
Branch of LA Division send a cable to the inquiring
as to what records may still be there relating to the period of
Oswald's visit to Mexico and afterwards. As of this date, we have
not located the original transcripts of the telephone intercepts of
Oswald's 1963 telephone conversations in Mexico City. We are hoping _
that the present intensive search will unearth then.

“5: The kinds of information currently being deleted by the Of-
fice of General Counsel from Oswald documents under Freedom of Infor-

mation are as follows:

a. Information confirming the existence of an Agency
station in-a named city (country) abroad.

b. Cryptonyms and pseudonyms.
c. Identities of Agency staff employees.
d. Identities of agents (foreign intelligence sources).

-@, Revelations concerning the Agency's use of identi- 1
fiable operational tactics, techniques or equipment.

f. Confirmation of the existence of liaison agreements
or working relationships with identified or identifiable
fereign intelligence and security services.

g. Revelation of information received from foreign
liaison services; obtained under agreements that committed
the Agency to protect the facts of the liaison arrangements
and any information received under-it, to protection against
unauthorized disclosure.

h. In a number of instances the kind of information
cited above, if subject to public disclosure, would still
(thirteen years later) have a damaging effect on U.S.
foreign affairs, national security interests and/or
intelligence operations and classification is still
justifiable under Executive Order 11662.
oa-t0taa-t014s

 

 

' tions material that is being reviewed in conne

  

1 December 1976

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM: John UW. Haller
: Inspector General

 

SUBJECT: Oswald Documents -- Action Taken

1. Attached herewith is an edited version of the memorandum
on Kesster's article in the Washingt: ost forwarded to you on
27 November 1976.

 

2. In an effort to obtain all the information that is avail-
able on this matter, the Office of Security, at the behest of the
Inspector General, has initiated a formal security investigation
into the reported leaks. This is to be confined to an analysis of
Agency files and records and to present and former Agency employees,
including the translator formerly assigned to the Mexico City Sta-
tion, the typist at the Station at that time and Mr. David Phillips.
They state that it is virtually impossible to estimate the length of
time it will take to conduct these investigations.

  

3: The Office of the General Counsel has been engaged since
April 1976 in perusing the Gswald 201 files, page by page, for
FOIA purposes. It is estimated that 75 percent of that material
containing Agency information will be sanitized, if needed, and
declassified by inid-December 1976. The information relating to
telephone taps in Mexico City, however, has been deleted. The
Oswaid 201 files consist of 1] 1/2 safe drawers of material.

Othar files with possible relevance ta the assassination of Presi-
dant Keanedy include the following: 12 safe drawers of Cuban Opera
‘tion with the

ker report; 2 1/2 safe drawers of material in the Office of
curity; varying amounts of related material in the Mexico City
jon files; soft files; Rocca files; CI/SIG files; OSC files

   

    
   

    

S
Sta
and Dci files.

   
  

Ee TMP DET
CL BY ON5636
74-00000

 

 

i. Identities of Agency components and internal
Agency Filing instructions.

j. Information concerning activities or behavior
patterns of people not even incidentally involved in
the assassination whose personal privacy would be un-
justifiably invaded should the information be released. ~~

k. Identities of U.S. Taw enforcement officials.

6. I cannot guarantee that the OGC sterilizations, following
guidelines described in the attached memorandum, are generally as
minimal as you may want. As you can see, this process has been
going on since last April, thus it would be a major undertaking to
begin all over again. I will look further into this, but if you
ultimately conclude that there should be a different standard for
FOIA releases on this subject than on others, we may have a very
large job ahead of us. DDO, OGC and the FOIA office should be

_ heard from.

7. With regard to the Sprague investigation, our intention
would be to let Sprague or his investigators have generally un-
fettered access to our relevant files here in this building. Those
documents he wishes to take out would be given a minimal steriliza~-
tion. Those documents which he wishes to have taken out and declas-
sified would be sterilized for that purpose. I anticipate that the
problems will occur as we disagree over what may be declassified.
His instincts will be to want to put as much as possible in the
public domain. But, we will have to face those bridges when we

‘come to them. Much will depend upon the kind of agreement OLC

will be able to negotiate in advance on security matters.

 

dohn fH. Waller

Attachment - a/s

ce: OGC w/att
OLC w/att
Assistant to DDCI w/att
