 

 

 

Marina and Loo Haryoy OS¥ALD

The subject of the OSWALDs was introduced into the
interrogation during a discusston about the difficulty a
Sovfet citizen, who marriss a foreigner, encounters in
attempting to leave tho USSR if the KGA chooses (for somo
reason) not to permit the Soviet citizen to emigrate,

Subject stated that it goes without saying that prior to
roceiving KGB's sanction not a single Soviet citizen, whether
he or she 4s married to a foreigner, would be allowed to

leave. the USSR,
Asked 4f the case of Marina OSWALD's departure from

the Soviet Union was typical, Subject replied that her

departure from the Soviet Union was neither typical ner usual,
particularly in view of the fact that. her husband, Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was a very strange individual, He had been in Cuba,

“and then came to the Soviet Union not'as a tourist, but as
‘an American defector who renounced his American citizenship |

and attempted to become a Russian citizen, This in itself
is unusual for.an American - it is not typical and very rare
for an American to do so, and Subject believed that an

‘American doing what OSWALD did {seeking Soviet citizenship

and renouncing American oitizenship) sould only de so because
he was a traitor,

In answer to a request for his opinion regarding the
OSWALD case, Subject said that all of his information was based
only on what was known to everyone who read the newspapers
aftor the KENNEDY assasination and on what he read in @ con~
doensed varsion of the Warren Report while he was in Western
Europe, When pressed for his personal ‘opinion he said it was
& very unusual situation, Normally a Soviet citizen (like
Marina) would not be allowed to leave the Soviet Union, in
fact. the Soviet authorities would try in some way to convince
the oitizen not to leave, However, if a Soviet married a
fbreigner, and insiated on leaving he or sha could always, ag
a@ last resort, be refused an exit visa, There have been
cases where a Soviet oltizen married a foreigner and received

“an exit visa, however, in such oases the Soviet authorities

have conceded to the exit visa requests only because they felt
that the foreign spouse may bave had some influence, and could
have created adverse publicity for the Soviet Government had
the exit visa not been granted, This was definitoly not so

in OSWALD's case, OSWALD could not insist that Marina be
granted an exist visa since he was not in a position to do so,
and. consequently the Soviet authorities were not compelled to
do so unless they specifically wanted to let her go to America

with OSWALD,

When asked to still further elaborate on bis beliefs
regarding the caso, Subject stated that in this case (OSWALD's),
Subject couldn't guess, ond in erdor to come to any kind of a
valid conclusion he would have to know something (factual),
which he doésn't, His opinion, however, is strictly an
opinion without any basis or fact, He thinks that KGB was
definitely interested in OSWALD while the latter resided in the
USSR, _To presume that OSWALD could have lived in the Soviet
Union as o simple American is excluded, Subject belkeves that

 

(8
 

0g 40477-10053
oO . & %

  
 
 

i .

we.
. |

    

 

   
 
 

 

“os sy, nea "7 eee PaO ENG ACTION :
r* C DISPATCH | | 2 ayaa SECRET 7 ; ;
Chief, SB : BECKS i ete]

Chief of Station, cf ' PaNRoTRa

ET
(ABMaAKEUP OZ
RCT REGIREO - REFERENCES .

UL. - y
Reference: fazpal 2524, 20 May 1968 Set

  
  
  

    

   
    
 
   
    
 

Attached are three reports, as explained in para 2 of

 

Reference, on the following topics:

 

    

Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD
Kuimoy (siea Gourpsyas \”

2. recy
Jravellers Checks | cnaaaa2jr?”

Gout hho

Lemon H, PHILBROOK

   

 

   

Soviet Defectors

 

      
    

    

Attachments: - Herewith
As Stated above - 2 copies each

Distrib ti . Document Number <a e 20% - 439 B

2-C7SB watts : for FOIA Review on FEB or

 
     
   
    

As of Nov 73 file review, these attachments -
removed for £xiixag filing: :

Cela guaxeur DEBRIEFING ~ Final Rpports,
April-July 68, Pretoria -

-~ ovpereee |

      
   
 

GROUP I ~ EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC ———— AND DECLASSIFICATIO.

  

DATE

 
    

CAGES REHRERE 10

 
 
  
 

5 June 1968

    

SECRET 7b 6-478/2

 
 

-2-

the XGO kept OSYALD in “their field of vision® and
undoubtedly worked with hia, To Subject it 4s unthinkable
that the KGB would miss such an opportunity, since it
always considers using porsons (such a4 OSWALD) for work
either directly in intolligence, as an agent, or in any
other way “to inflict damage to tho West".

Asked wheather the assasMnation of President KENNEDY
sould be considered as "being damaging to the West?, Subject
answered in the affirmative,

Subject explained that the existence of a government
such-as the United States is a threat to the Soviet regime,
The United States is an example to the rest of the world
{Soviets included) that people can live, survive, and have
a higher standard of living in a democracy. Therefore, the
Soviet Union tried, and tries, to cut the U.S. Government
down at every opportunity. Since’ President KENNEDY was looked
upon by many in the.Soviet Union as a popular personality,
KENNBDY's personal attraction further raised this feeling
that living in a democracy had its benefits, to an even higher
level with the general population of the Soviet Union,

+ .
When asked if it was possible that KGB could or- would

ever sanction such an operation (the assasination) Subject
answered "yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEV's) it could have",
KHRUSHCHEV was considered by Subject to.be an ignorant
Andividual who was willing to take risks and adventurous under~
takings. Subject said, however, that this could never occur
under the present Soviet leadership, Subject considered that
the decision to carry out such an operation, (the assasination)
could not have been made by the Chairman of the KGS since he
does not possess such authority, and, therefore, could only
have been made by KHRUSHCHEV himself.

Subject: was asked if such an operation might not have
involved a terrific risk which could have possibly resulted
in an armec conflict between the two nations, had Soviet
invoivement been proven by the Americans, Subject felt that
even if the Americans did acouse the Soviet Government of
complicity in the assasination, the Soviet Government would
certainly deny such an American accusation, claiming that the
Americans were using OSWALD, a crazy man who had been in the
Soviet Union, would say that the accusation was a provocation,
and An all probability would repudiate such American claims.

To undorline, his point, Subject mentioned that even
though OSWALD was in the Soviet Union, and was suspected
because he was in Cuba, nothing happened and the Soviet Unien
wasn't accused by the Americans.

 

 
