74-00000

was

SECRET

alias and; (2) as early as possible in the week. In any event,
after some expressions of dissatisfaction by the HSCA investigators
against their staff about their lack of knowledge of the Flores
interview, COS asked if AM MUG meant anything to them. Thus primed,
they picked up on this and interviewed Flores in private. No
deposition was taken. The investigators were requested to use an
alias for Flores in both their notes and any subsequent reports.

5. Upon completion of the Flores interview, Leap, Gomez, the
COS and myself met to discuss the interview. The three
room electronic arrangement in the deT Angel Hotel was outlined.
Neither investigator expressed any concern about this arrangement.
Leap then brought out a copy of the Acting DDCI letter to Chairman
Stokes concerning release from s reements ‘for HSCA titerviewees
and requested that it be given tg before his interview and that
be orally advised that he Was FéTeased from his secrecy
agreement on matters relevant to the HSCA investigation. Leap
emphasized that) ould be the judge on what was relevant and
what was not. The COS and I read the letter, discussed the situation
and agreed that I would give the letter to[ —_—jand so advise him
of his release.

6. At 1015 etre ded Chief of Registry, took Leap
and Gomez to Room in the del Angel Hotel. The electronic arrange-
ment was explained to them by an OTS representative. Leap asked the
OTS representative to stay in their room during the interview to

correct any possible malfunctions. The OTS representative wisely
declined. I subsequently complimented him on this proper response.

 

 

 

 

 

7. At 1045 -- with at my request standing unobtrusively
by with his diplomatic passport in the event of difficulty -- I met
- th

 

 

 

in the lobby and took him to Room 809. I gave him the copy
é@ Acting DCI letter and advised him that he was released from

his secrecy agreement on matters relevant to the cokup that

 

at hand. I then advised Leap on the microphone hookup that
ly aware of the letter and his releas hen introduced
nd left Room 809 fon Room 808 where and the OTS”
representative were already stationed. > .

8. After approximately forty-five minutes, knocked on
my door and advised me that the interview was over. I escorted
him from the hotel. He expressed some concern about the difficulty
of remembering events after fifteen years but said that he had done
as well as he could do in responding to questions. He also expressed
a willingness to cooperate in the future. It should be noted in
passing that he was a “walk-in" to the Embassy approximately two
months ago requesting further work with the Agency. This may explain,
in part, his willingness to cooperate with the HSCA investigation. The
COS shares this assessment with me.

 

2

SECRET
 

[0g 40127-10053]:

 

10 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: HSCA Field Trip to Mexico City

1. The purpose of this MFR is to outline the details of subject
trip for the period 6-8 August 1978 (Mexico City 46122 refers).

2. I departed Washington on Sunday, 6 August 1978 for Mexico
City. Upon arrival I met with the COS and DCOS to discuss the
interviews to be conducted on Monday, 7 August and Tuesday, 8 August
1 by a HSCA team consisting of Gary Cornwell, Deputy to Mr. Blakey,

' Harold Leap and Edwin Lopez. It was agreed that the interview with
: Daniel Flores, staff, Mexico City Station (in alias) would be held

i in the Embassy and the interview with would
{ be held in the del Angel Hotel using nt

' agreed to by Mr. Cornwell at the HQS planning meeting on Friday, 4
;

i

t

{

See RN ct RRO YEE RE ER REE SET DE opt ge?

 

 

August 1978, Electronic equipment (including TV) had already been
either brought from HQS or was available at the Station.

3. On Monday, we were advised by cable that the HSCA investigators
would not be coming as scheduled. As I had already made arrangements
pal to meet with or identification purposes and to explain the
A a interview arrangements, I decided to keep the meeting. The COS
t concurred. was cooperative and accepted the delay as unavoidable.
: I advised him that I would give him as much advance notice as
possible in any future interview. I did not specifically identify
myself as Agency but there is little doubt that he was aware of my
affiliation. Upon receipt of the second cable -- which rescheduled
the HSCA trip (with Mr. Cornwell deleted) “vas advised that
the interview would, in all likelihood, take placé on Tuesday, 8 August
as originally scheduled.

 

 

>

| 4. At 0830, 8 August Leap and Gomez met with the COS and

} myself in his office. Neither Leap nor Gomez had any awareness

i whatsoever of the requirement to interview Flores. In fact, Lopez
asked me if Flores was LIONION 1. Without exposing my concern about

| the lack of briefing such a question implied, I responded that LIONION 1
was in Madrid, not Mexico City. Parenthetically at the 4 August
planning meeting, Cornwell had been briefed on the personal plans of
Flores and had written down our request to interview him: (1) in

t

}

3

t

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 055636

SECRET | 9857
74-0000

SECRET

 

 

 

- OY returned the HSCA investigators to the Embassy where
they “that the{ [interview to both the COS and myself and

 

noted that the interview was most worthwhile. The electronic
equipment was cTéaréd from Rooms 809 and 810 and subsequently
released all three rooms back to the del Angel desk clerk.

 

 

 

 

10. No surveillance or other problems were noted during this
operation.

11. On Wednesday, 9 August I returned to HQS and reported the
results of the trip to my superiors.

Niles R. Gooding J

Original’- Mr. Breckinridge
1 - Mr. Sturbitts
1 - Mr. Briggs

SECRET
