13-00000

 

 

House Select Con mittee on Asca
U..S. House of Reptesentatives

: As indicated in the responses to questions 7 and 8,
the FBI,-as of October 1,.1968, found no substantial basis to
conclude Nosenko was not a bona fide defector; as of May ll,
1977, accepted a CIA assessment that Nosenh ko was a bona fide
defector;-and has not perceived any significant evidence,
from 1964 to date, that Nosenko reported other than the facts
about Oswald as he knew then.

 

"15, Did either the FBI or the CIA have primary
responsibility for investigating Nosenko's state~
ments about Oswald? If ‘neither had primary
responsibility, was there any division of
responsibility?" ;

\_.° The FBI had primary responsibility for investigating
“Nosenko! s statements about Oswald that pertained to his
{Oswald's) activities in.the United States, including the
assassination of President Kennedy. The CIA had. primary
“responsibility. for. investigating Nosenko's statements about
‘Oswald's activities abroad. .

ng. Wi hat. communication, i? any, existed between oo
- “the FBI and CIA ‘with respect to evaluating-and/or :
investigating ‘Nosenko's statements about Oswald?"

 

: The: “EBI forwarded a‘letter, dated March. 6, 1964, .
from he. Director, FBI, to the Director, CIA, enclosing
., Memoranda :dated February. 28, -1964,-and March 4,°1964, cap--
*). “thoned: "Lee ‘Harvey Oswald," which summarized. the results of
.-cFBL interviews. of Nosenko regarding Oswald on February 26
. and 275.1964, Vand March 3: and.4,.1964.. The:results of a CIA.
“interview. of Nosenko on January” 23, 1964, regarding Oswald
: “furnished: to the FBI.iin. a. letter fromthe ‘CIA. dated
“28, 1964. These. particular pieces of: correspondence,
not. ‘setting forth any specific requests or investiga-
: cads, were furnished for purposes of evaluation.

    
 

ene Where information is not provi ded, it is either
“net retrievable from FBI. Headquarters files or is not being
. furnished ‘pursuant to. the Memorandum (of: Understanding.

 
13-00000

 

 

House Select ‘Committee on Assacsinations
U. S. Housé of Representatives (HSCA)

 

“the F FBI, from. 1964 to 1968, characterized Nosenko

as a Soviet defector, whose bona fides had not been establi shed.

“mo. What i is the FBI's position. today on the i
question of: whether Nosenko is bonafide (sie)? ane

‘The: FBI ‘currently ‘characteri zes Nosenko as a former

Soviet Committee for State Security (KGB) officer who has

furnished reliable information in the. past, and considers
Nosenko to ‘be a. ‘bona. fide Sovie t defector.

: on, If. the answer to question 9 is different from
‘the response to question 10, when-did the change
occur and why? : :

‘The answer to ‘question 8 ‘is considered responsive

to, question li.

me. ‘What was the FBI's position from 1964 to -
1988 on whether Noesenko was telling the truthin |.
the statements I he-made to the FBI about Oswald?”

° The. FBI did not. take .2 position, from 1964 to 1968,
on whether Nosenko was telling the truth in the statements
he made to the FBI about Oswald. The statements were accepted
at face value and qualified in terms of the source and the

conditions under which they were received.

"13, What is the FBI's position today as to
whether Nosenko was telling the truth in the
statements he made to ‘the FBI about Oswald?"

The FBI is- satisfied that Nosenko trutheully
reported the facts’ about. Oswald as he knew them.

"14, If the answer to question 12 is different
from the response to question 13, when cid the
change oceur and why?"

 
13-00000

 

  

"7, What significance — with respect to possible
foreign invelvement in the essassination as Well as
to the issue ef Nosenko's bonafides (sic)—does

the FBl attach today to Nosenko's statements about
Oswald?"

The FBI does not perceive any significant evidence of
foreign. involvement in the assassination of President Kennedy,
nor does the FBI perceive any credible evidence that Nosenko's
defection was a Soviet ploy to mask Soviet govermmental

’. involvement in the assassination.. Therefore, the FBI is

satisfied that Nosenko reported the facts about Oswald as he
knew. then. :

"8. If the answer to question 6 is different from
‘the response to question 7, when did the change
oceur and why?"

The FBI had no direct access to Nosenko from

April 3, 1964 until April.3, 1969, and therefore was not in

a position to make an objective assessment of hi's bona fides
nor of. the veracity of information furnished by him. ‘Thus,
information | ‘provided by. ‘him, in early 1954, was accepted at

‘face value and qualified in.terms of the source and the

conditions under which it was. received. On October 1,.1968,

_the FBIsadvised the Central Intelligence-Agency (CIA) that,
based. upon. a review of. material. provided by CIA, the FBI

found: no ‘substantial basis. to conclude that Nosenko. was not

 a.bona fide. defector;, however, the FBI did not reach any
-voverall,, definitive conclusions: regarding his bona fides
“because of a lack of ‘access to Nosenko and all collateral
‘information pertinent to such an assessment. Effective

- May ‘11,.1977, the CIA and FBI concurred that Nosenko was a
“bona fide defector, based upon an assessment of the

 

totals ty of. information: furnished by him.

®9. What was the FBI's position from 1964 te
1968 on the question of whether Nosenko is
bonafide (sie)?
13-00000

   

House Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of -Representatives. (HSCA): -

SA Walter was the recipient .of a personal letter of

commendation, dated October 3, 1963, from the Director, FBI,

for his superior work in the handling of a very sensitive

complicated, fast-moving, and highly publicized espionage ‘case .

Previously fon November 7, 1954}, he had received a meritorius
salary increase for his outstanding work on another espionage

case, successful interrogation being the key aspect of that

investigation.

; SA Gheesling, at the time of the pertinent Nosenko
interviews, served as a Supervisor at FBI Headquarters and
had considerable experience in espionage, intelligence and
_ counterintelligence investigations. SA Gheesling supervised
the field investigation of Oswald (from the latter's return to
- the United States on June ‘13, 1962 until September, 1962, and
“from November 22, 1963 through mid-1964). He was assigned
; exclusively. to supervisory responsibilities relative to the.
- assassination. of. President Kennedy.

    
   

   

8 the. ‘specific. knowledge of Oswald's “background,
a: ‘by. these. SAS” atthe time. of ‘the Nosenko interviews,

  

= . ssignment to supervision. of the Oswald investigation
ute would tend: to indicate that he, at least, was quite knowledge-
able. of data contained. in. FBI.files concerning Oswald.

"4. -On the dates tat Nosenko was questioned about
Osviald, does there. now: exist or did there ever exist:
a. a tape of the questions asked and Noserk co's

answers;
be. & transcript of the questions asked and |
Nosenko's axswers; -
e..a summary of the questions asked arid.
' Nosenko's answers?"

; | As noted in FBI- memorandum dated June 19, 1978,.
captioned as above, and which was prepared in response to HSCA
letter, dated June 15, 1978, to the Attorney General, FBI
records searches have not located any extant tape recordings
13-00000

 

Senet”

 

 

Hor sé. gelect Committee on Assassinations
° ue S,. House of Reo resentatives (HSCA)

or verbatin’ transcripts of FBI. interviews. with Nosent ko ‘tha
‘concerned Oswald and/or the assassination of. President.-Ken nedy.
A document has been located. which indicates that FBI personncl
did record the February 26/and 27,1964, interviews of Nosenko,
_ among: ‘others. Since ‘no recordings or transcripts have been ;
‘Located, it can be assumed that the recordings rere used by
“the interviewing SAs. to check the accuracy of their notes
prior to dictating the results of the interviews. “tt is
‘further assumed that, upon verifying the accuracy of summary
_ veportings of the interviews, the recordings were disposed of
- Sines they had served the. purpose for which they. were made,
although no ‘record of: such ‘disposition can be found. Summary
reportings of ‘the. five pertinent interviews are extant, and
were delivered _to the HSCA on March 21, 1978.

, "5, What criteria, if any, was used to determine:
a. what sudjects to question Nosenko about;
be how much time to devote to each subject?” -

. .. FBI files do not contain a specific enumeration of
criteria used to getermine the particular subjects Nosenko
was ‘to be questioned ahout nor the amount of time to be devoted
to each subject in.the questioning. .
"6, What significance — with respect to possible
foreign invelvement in the assassination as well
as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides (sic}—did
the FBI attach during the years 1964-1968 to Nosenko's
statemenis about Oswald?"

The FBI, during the years 1964-1958, considered
Nosenko's statements about Oswald te be very significant elements
of his initial reportings, the. veracity of which had to be

“assessed in relation to the totality of information furnished
by him. The FBI perceived Nosenko's statements about Oswald,
depending upon 4 subsequent , ‘definitive resolution of Nosenko's
bona fides, to be the most authoritative information available
indicative cf a lack of Soviet governmental involvement in the
assassination of President Kennedy.
13-00000

' CTA
‘£fice of. Legislative
Counsel - FYI

, UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU Or INVESTIGATION

   

WASHINGTON, pc. 20535 Sos

January 8, 1979

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

‘This responds in full to a December 18,

: 1978, letter to the Attorney General signed by G. Robert
‘Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, which asked
that the FBI declassify, in toto, a Secret, September 14,
'1978,-response:made to 16 interrogatories pertaining te
Yuri, Ivanovich Nosenko which were propounded by the
Committee in its letter of September 5, 1978.

Declassification. of the September 14, 1978,
response required coordination with the Office of -Legis-
lative Counsel, CIA, which interposed no objection to
declassifying certain portions of that response.

. The Committee's attention is invited to the
fact that CIA did suggest, with regard to the response
to interrogatory number "8", that the FBI "... may wish
to: correct the dates. on which the PBI did not have direct
access to Mr. Nosenko, to read 3 April 1964 until 8 December
1968.” .

For the convenience of the Committee, the
following declassified, verbatim reiteration of the
September 14, 1978, response. is. provided.

 

es Si : a : , . ; : . Fore
104-10448-10172

- | | |

 

Cc] TERNAL.

mu UCLASSIFIED _é ONLY

“SUBJECT: (Opiional)

  

 
 
     
      

 

FROM:

R.S. Gabrielson.
605317 :

TO: (Officer designation, roam number, and
building) .

 

 

OLC/HSCA

      
 

—
“Ray, Rearden O/Securit
4E13

F Russ Holmes es Chee
2011
* Meee:
281405.

“aaa DD0/SE
DIO

    
  

    
 

  

ies = DDO/CI

    
    

    
  

 

FR Rininger OGC.

7007

 

 

DATE

Cl con’

Dir/FBI Response Re Nosenko interrogatories

EXTENSION

      
 

1385
1046

OFFICER'S
INITIALS
FORWARDED

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM
3-62

CJ secret

610 “tomers

 

(CONFIDENTIAL

ENTIAL [-] SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

   
 
 

“SLC 79/0205/1

Dale

  
    
  

    
    

PY January 1979

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw o fine ocross column ofter each commant.)

. NOTE:

The attached received
from FBI.

I. bring it to your
attention for any thoughts
-you might have on its
substance.

Please call me with
your comments.

. Rodger
1046 (R)
1385 (R)
Att.
Use ony = C) UNCLASSIFIED”
13-00000

Eouse Select Committee on Assassinations.
U..S...House of Representatives (HSCA) .

.° This responds in full to the follow ng enumerated
interrogatories submitted for. consideration in a letter,
. dated: Scoptember 5, 1978, to the Attorney General and signed
by. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA.

*L On what dates and for how long was Nosenko
questioned by the FBI about. Lee Harvey Oswald—
from 1984 to present?"

, . The ‘files of the FBI indicate that Yuri Ivanovich
‘Nosenko: was interviewed regarding Oswald and/ov the assassi-

} mation: of President John F...Keanedy on Fe bruary 26 and 27,

4, “The FBI files do ‘not

s ‘specific huration in whole or in part as to

iscussions,: of: thoss five interviews; ‘however,

ommunications.:indicate the February, 27, 1964 inter-

“oview was: conducted on the afternoon of that date ‘and the

. March 4,.1964 discussion ‘of. Oswald occurred at ‘the outset

  
 
  
  
 

.. of an aft ternoon interview on that date.

“42, When Nosenko was. questione d by the FBI about
Lee Harvey Oswals, who did the. questioning?"

The: FBI interviews of Nosenko, during which he was:
questioned. about Oswald and/or the assassination of . President

.Xennedy,. were conducted: by. Special Agents (SAs} Alek
Poptanich, Maurice A. Taylor and Donald B. Walter on
February 26 and 27, 1964; by SAs Poptanich and W. Marvin
Gheesling on March 3 and 4, 1964; and by SAs Poptanich,
Taylor and Walter on March 6, 1964.
13-00000

 

   

 

House: Select Committee on Assassina
Ue 8. House of Representatives (HSC:

 

. "3, What background, if any, did the interro- .
gator have in interrogations? What knowledge.
. did the interrogator have’ with respect to. Oswald's :
-: background?" ‘

 

- :* There are no retrievable FBI statistics upon which
to- base. a.quantification of the interrogatory experiences of
the SA personnel .who interviewed Nosenko on the five pertinent

' occasions.. Suffice it.to say; the techniques of cooperative
..and-hostile interrogations ate integral aspects of the training
- and: almost: daily duties of SA personnel. In that regard, it
is-noted that during the February and March, 1964 interviews
SA Poptanich had almost.13 years of SA experience; SA Taylor
hdd ‘over 31 years. of SA’ experience; SA Walter had completed
'. almost 17 years of SA: experience; and SA Gheesling had over
-l3 years of SA experience. Further, their respective personnel
files: disclose the following: i

SA Poptanich was then fluent in the Russian language
(Nosenke' S native tongue). The Annual Report of Performance
; Rating, dated March. 31, 1962, noted that SA Poptanich, during
‘the previous twelve months, had participated in the interro-
gation of a Soviet defector and his knowledge cf the Russian
language and mores of the Russian people proved most helpful
relative thereto. .

SA Taylor, on. Septenber ll, 1962,. received an incen-
tive award in recognition of the superior fashion his responsi-
bilities were discharged over an extended period of time. The
Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Washington Field Office,
in ‘submitting a recommendation for the incentive award,
commented that SA Taylor had demonstrated exceptional ability
in the interrogation and debriefing of three Soviet defectors,
all of whom were intelligence officers. SA Taylor's Perfior-
mance Rating for the period April 1, 1963--March S1, 1064
noted he was recognized as the finest interrogator on the’
Soviet espionage squad.in the Washington Field Office, which
accounted for his asSignments to interview Soviet defectors.

‘

-3:-

   
