  

14. Upon Zenteno! s vetura, Mizones told him of the
méssage and Zentend took it as an authentic order and made
no effort to have it confirmed. Mizones askad if Guevara's
life Gould bé preserved since hé had these instructions.
Zénteno replied that his own position would be placed in
jeopardy if he did not comply. Mizones asked him to make. -
thé attempt anyway. (Mizonés believes that Zentéfio had .
already resigned himself to the inevitability of Guevara's
execution.) Zentena said that he was in sympathy with Mizores'
Wish but that it was not in his power t6 reverse the order. -
He told.Mizones that he was well aware of the treatment which
Fidel had meted out to Cubans and told him to execute Guevara
in any manuer which he might choose. Zenteno said that he
‘had to leave for Vallegrande at 10:00 a.m. and would send
a helicopter back to pick up Guevara's body" at 2 p.m., and
"as a friend", asked that the body be ready. Mizones
agreed to make the attempt, and said he would advise if he
were successful. ‘

15. Failing a counter- -manding of the érder and as the
senior "Bolivian officer" left in Higueras, Mizones Said he
was left with the implementation of the execution. After ©
Zenteno left, Mizones was able to talk to Guevara, who

_identified Mizones either as a Puérto Rican or a Cuban

‘working for U.S. intelligence. He said hé made this judgment.
on the basis of: the questions asked and on Mizones' accent. —
While Mizones was with Guevara, shots were fired in adjoining:
rooms and Mizonés later determined that these involved the
execution of two other prisoners. Recognizing these shots
for what they were, nevertheless, Guevara blanched when
Mizones confirmed that he tod would be executed; although
later, composing himself. :

16. After leaving Guevara, Mizones told a sergeant. ‘of
the order to execute Guevara and entrustéd the mission to him.
He was told to fire below the héad. The ofder was given to
the sergeant at 1:00 p.m. ‘and Mizones heard the shets fired
‘at Guevara at 1:20 p-m. At 2:00 p.m., the helicopter returned
to Higueras. A Father Shiller performed the last rites and
Guevara's remains were strapped to one of the helicopter's
Skids and Mizones accompanied them to Vallegrande, where
they landed at 2:30 ‘p.it. Mizones said that he lost himself
quickly in the crowd gathered at the airport, but that

took charge of the remains and was photographed.
Lzones sdid that the title of the photograph, which appeared

in the press, gave an incorrect identification of|
thé name Mizones used,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

  

 

. 17. Mizories said he reported the executions to Major
Saucedo and the .Chief of Operations, a Major Gutierrez,
and then was @ken back to identify “the bodics-of-the..three _.
executed guerrillas. They then drove to Santa Cruz‘ with the
doéuments, films and equioment and then flew to La Paz,

‘where Mizones contacted his case officer. He was taken to.
a home wheret. sand other Americans were briefed by i.
‘him. Everything WHigh he had been able to retain was turned

. in then to be carried by a special courier to Washington.
Mizones then-flew back to Santa. Cruz where a. C-130 ordered .
by Gefieral Porter, CINCSOUTH, was to pi¢k him and")
up for 4 flight to the Canal Zone. This plane arrived with
a flat tire on the 10th or lith. The U.S. Mis3sicn_ ft,

- a C+54, was then flown to Santa Cruz and he and

. Were flown back to La Paz. After overnighting there; another
€-130 carried them to Panama where Mizones was asked to
relate his story to Gerieral Porter. After 2 weeks in Panama,
Mizones and were documented as GS-16s so that they
could board & OVé¥=Booked military flight to Charlotte, -
South Carolina. After their atrival there, they journeyed
to Miami, where Mizones briefed General Cushman. (Mizones
bélieves that in both high-level briefings he mentioned: his -
own personal role in the execution of Guevara. } oo :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LA7EICO
4. Prior t
i ed fals
zy iRonoOSs’ and
received in New
30 July for La P
officer had prec
“at the La Paz ai

  
    

. were stamped in

S$. The cas

 

 

 

 

0 their departure, both.Mizones and
e U.S. re-entry permits in the names of
respectively. These were

‘ dor to their departure on
az on a Braniff Airline flight. Their case
eded them.and.met them on 31 July at 7 a.m.
xrport. Mizones believes that Bolivian visas
their re-entry permits. wo, :

 

e officer and another American took them to

 

   

mee
' expé

 

Ss 6 guerr

-in. which were ha

4

’

 

and military off
ten that morning

to whom they were introduced as

ilia warfare. He issued each a personal card
ndwritten his instructions to all civilian.
icials that they be given full support. At

» they met General Ovando, Commander-in-Chief

of the Bolivian Armed Forces. - (It wasn't until about a month

later that Mizon
no new i

 

“WMission. After

“Cruz de la Sierr

es me in Santa Cruz.) While in
nstructions were issued to them about their
about a week there, they were flown to Santa
a for a.few days and. introduced to Colonel

Joaquin Zenteno Anaya, Commander of the. Eighth Division.

_ Zenteno arranged
officer in charg

 

quartered “e

for Captain "Poppie” Shelton, the American
e of the military mission training the 2nd

Ranger Battalion, to come to Santa Cruz to meet Mizones and-
| They were also introduced to Major Arnaldo Saucedo,
-2 or the Eighth Division. After 3 or 4 days in. Santa Cruz,
Hizones. ang. =—=)went to La Esperanza, where they were

vian officers’ compound. In La Esperanza

they met Major Ayiroa, the Commander of the 2nd Ranger Battalion,

and Captain Gari

6. Prior t

_ were is
captains in the

-‘receive Bolivian

 

_ Prado.

0 their departure from La Paz, Mizones and .
sued Bolivian uniforms and credentials as
Bolivian Army. - Nevertheless, they did not
Army insignia. Later, Mizones was given by

‘Major Saucedo a Bolivian tri-color cap-~insignia which he wore
(escarapela). Mizones and->- were issued Smith and Wesson

double-actionh au

tomatic pistols. During their activities as in-

struc and adviso : assumed the role of Bolivian

officers, althou
number of Bolivi

that the Ameri
activi

gh they were known as foreign advisors to a

an officers... (Mizones said that he learned later
n.Ambassador had prohibited anyone other than
from becoming involved in the anti-guerrilla

e field.)- ae ,

- «7. ~‘Despite their apparent status as Bolivian officers,
~ Mizones said tha

t they never were given orders by higher-

‘ranking Bolivian officers (One exception to this rule was the
order which Colo ,
Guevara's exccut

nel Zenteno issued to Mizones. on the day of
ion, if Mizones story is to be believed.)
 

“SUBJECT: oe : Statenent “by Benton H. Mizones concerning

_INSPECTOR GENERAL

 

a 3 June 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: - "Deputy Inspector General on

his assignment Bolivia in 1967 and-his role”.
in the capture of Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA.
de ‘la Serna: . ; .

"REFERENCE: _ eno dated 29 May 1975 ‘

. 1. The undersigned met with Benton H. ‘Mizones, contract
employee, on 2 and 3 June to obtain his story about his |
assignment to Bolivia in 1967. This query is.based upon ref

- interview, during which Mizornes mentioned that he had re-

transmitted an order from Colonel Joaquin Zenteno Anaya,
‘Commander of the 8th Division of the Bolivian Army, toa
Bolivian sergeant, which resulted-in the execution of Ernesto
-"Che'* GUEVARA de la Serna, Cuban leader of the. » guerrillas then
‘operating . in Bolivia. . oo, ,

. be Mizones said that his assignment came about after ‘an
interview held in Miami in June or July of 1967, at which time
he was a case officer working for the Miami office. He had .
been selected for the job interview: because of his para-
military training and_experience. He wads asked if he would

 

agree to serve with | a fellow Cuban. He

accepted. He was told that he was to go to Bolivia‘with -..

See ere they would be engaged in training intelligence |
the 2nd Ranger Battalion of the Eighth Division of

the Bolivian Army. He was also told that he an
would be assigned to the 2nd Ranger Battalion as advisors

 

 

. and would be based in the town of Esperanza. While in Miami,

he and““““""" were given briefings about the political and
guerrilla situation in Bolivia, and he was given a refresher
course in communications. Mizones ana _were told:
that there were strong indications tha was leading
the guerrillas. Among the instructions given them was a clear
one that in the event that the Bolivian Army captured Guevara,
they ‘should do everything possible "to keep hin alive. "

-3,. They were introduced to their future case officer.

. in Washington, who was to be in liaison with the Bolivian

forces in’ Santa Cruz.

 
 

Y

 

..
8. Mizones was assigned to Santa Cruz and| moet
assigned to La Esperanza, where the latter conductéd most of

the intelligence training. As time went by, Mizones’ own
duties gravitated to becoming basically those of.an advisor.

.,He-said that his case officer was aware of and approved of this
development. Among the things which Mizones af
: attempted to accomplish was the preservation of

of:
captured guerrillas, for the collection of intelligence about
the guerrilla's locations, as well as for humanitarian reasons. —

“Mizones said that hei saved the life of Jose Castillo Chavez,.

traveling for that purpose to Vallegrande from Santa Cruz, -: -
where he spoke briefly to Castillo at the Nuestra Senora de -

-Malta Hospital. .At this time Mizones. learned of the intent

of Colonel Selich of the Rangers, to have the prisoner executed.

' -Mizones prevailed. on Major Saucedo and General La Fuente to
_take his side. The prisoner was flown to Vallegrande where .
‘Mizones covered all medical costs and tarried out a two-week:

interrogation. The resulting twenty-page interrogation report.
provided the Bolivians with a complete concept of the
~guerrilla' Ss strategy, which turned out to be the key to
Guevara's capture, according to Mizones. This report was
attributed by the Bolivians to be from their own people.

9, This. important development ' was followed. by an

' encounter in late September between a unit led by a Lt. Galindo
and the remnants of the guerrillas, . During this action, a Cuban

lieutenant named Miguel; the Bolivian Coco Peredo; and a
Bolivian physician named Jose Gutierrez Ardaya were killed.
Mizones travelled by jeep to Pucara, where. the bodies were

- located, and through the information he had learned fron

Castillo, he was able to establish that the men were from
Guevara's forward element. Upon his return to Santa Cruz,
Mizones advised Colonel Zenteno that the 2nd Ranger Battallion
should be immediately deployed, with the remaining two weeks
of their training cancelled. Zenteno accepted this advice-

and the Rangers were moved to Pucara, and the Headquarters of
the Eighth Division were moved to Vallegrande. Mizones
continued in-his advisory role, suggesting areas for troop
deployment as well as the deployment of the intelligence. ;
teams. On the 8th of October, contact was established with

‘Guevara's remaining forces. (At this. time Mizones was: in
.Vallegrande and en in Esperanza.) On the 8th, Major

‘Saucedo reported over the radio that "the chief” had been
captured. Mizones then flew over the area in a PT-6 carrying
with him a PRC-10 radio with which he was able to. communicate
‘with the Bolivian forces. He then confirmed that Guevara was -
"the chief" who had been captured. He returned to Vallegrande
where he told. Col. Zenteno that Guevara had. been wounded and.
captured. . : : .

= comp . : . * | -

 
 

 

 

10. That day Major Selich was sent to Higueras to

. interrogate the guerrilla prisoners and assembled the :

captured documents. Since Colonel Zenteno.was planning to fly
by helicopter to Higueras on the 9th, Mizoncs asked him on . :

the evening of the 8th if he could accompany him to interrogate

Guevara. Zenteno consulted his staff and agreed. (The ue.

' helicopter had room only for a pilot and two passengers.) :
- Mizones prepared a 100-word message to th
in code reporting Guevara's capture and asking that an Embassy

representative be sent to. the area to prevail upon the os

 

 

‘Bolivians to spare Guevara's life, since he did not. believe

that he could succeed in doing so. This message was prepared ~
for the scheduled 10 a.m. transmission of 9 October, and .
was not transmitted to the relay point in Asuncion, Paraguay,
until about 10:30 a.m., after Mizones arrived in Higueras

and get up his radio-transmitter an RS-48. — a o

- Zl. Zenteno, Mizones and the pilot, Nino de Guzman, set
out by helicopter from Vallegrande at 7:15 a.m. on the 9th,
- and arrived in Higueras at about 7:40 a.m. Mizones accompanied
.Zenteno and Major Ayiroa when they visited Guevara in the |
school room which was his improvised jail. Guevara would
not answer Zenteno when spdken to... He was. bound, hand and foot,
and’ had a leg wound. . . oy Lot

412. Mizones and Major Selich then reviewed the captured
documents and Mizones obtained permission from Selich to
photograph all the papers, including Guevara's diary, and also.
Selich's permission to retain the original accommodation . :
addresses found. : . : an

13. While Zenteno and ail the other Bolivian officers ©

. (with the exception of a Lieutenant Perez) were outside -of
“the village attending to other military affairs, Mizones -

. femained in Higueras as the highest ranking “Bolivian officer".
_In this capacity he answered a’call received on the military

field telephene and answered as Captai ' He was given.
the code numbers 500 and 600 as orders which were to be
implemented by command of "higher. authorities". He said that
the connection was not clear and he could not recognize the
voice but it could have been that of Major Saucedo. In any
case, Mizones said that.since it was a line only available -
to the military he was confident that it was order re-
transmitted through military channels. He said that he knew
that 500 referred to Guevara, 600 to the word execute and

. 700 to the preservation of Guevarra's life. These simple
codes had been identified to him previously. - ;
