 

(04-101990277
7

This eaters! ccmsmra wstoemataon elte sng the Nurnnit Peteres ef me sitet Got @ NA Me naming of he ore

 

COUNTRY

 
 

CENIEAL INTEL

aye lows, Tite
VBL USC. Se 207 ond TE he neem enn ee vetatn of eh WS oop mo © oe Ne iat perme ip peut Sond by Mow |

CON FaLDE. ToI~A-L

 

HPO ND 00~ B 3,179, 768.

Cuba
Conflicts ¥1 thin the MRP and Betveen theDATE DS"  2f February 1961
WRP and the DRF .

NOPAGES
; ~ REFERENCES
. ““Bipplésient te 008-3,17%,433
Fed 61 ,
wer Ped 61

 

 

 

W citizen, free-lance writer and part tine sugar broker.

 

 

Bource speaks Spanish, has resided st intervals in Cuba since youth, bas >
hed contacts for many years among Cubens in the sugar business, and mows
‘persenslly many present ami former Qea political aad administrative
personalities. Source Lived in Havage during the eatire caleaiar year

1959, working vith the Sugar Stabilircstion Institute and collecting

material for an analysis of devalopzents in Cuda since Fidel Cestrots
victory. -

the conflicta.vithin the WAP, vhich I described earlier /Seo Renort Bo.
OG8-3, 175, 5357; WESE WS Coatihve pretty much as before. One of wy Cuban
frienis, who ia in a positi to mov, decause he bimels ie an ardent | -

RAP woaks sust laters ma that Asch Gute: will ost pls; 6 ver
Weiser, haw 5 satorsed: Eten — RA

 

  

ehist” of tats we @ daring tae RITES ‘deMindtely flirting _
with Antonio Varone and the DRF. His pitpose in go doing, g, cpparently,
te to make the bee EGenl possible hisself, playing off the MNP and

the DRF against éeoch other. Rargy nis epiritually not a roa) believer, ©

ta the Brine! s of tho MRP and is willing to desert {t. Wy Cuban friend

teld me, edditloaally, that sone other people {aside KRP (no further data
any aeleel are also flirting with the ORF, but for different reasons frou.
. ese people » Spparentiy, here teli Yarona thet they will support

is gad the DAF now, 12, in retura, he vill allow them to participate in
the political life of Cuba, after the hoped-for victory over Fidel Castro.
They are not making this proposition eo much for selfiah'reascas, aa they
are because they believe that the US vill back Yarons, rather then the |
MRP, sod that, consequently, Yarona vill vin. By casing to terns
with Verona, so these MRP e Tess, they may be able to put eqross
acne of MEG's program, aftar the elinination of Castro.

CeCe Po l= Dele Bt Indah,

 

 
