. “SECRET -

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to Mexico
City Station and the JFK Assassination Records

B. . Cryptonyms, such as those in the LI series,
unless they appear _in the context of (liaison ]
(@perational equities /(such as LITENSOR and
LITEMPO).
C.. We need to continue the protection: of the cryptonym
. LIENVOY.
This cryptonym is used extensivel y throughout the
collect to describe \the joint activity )from
different perspectives. “Individual occurrences may
not seem to reveal anything significant but, when
looking at the cryptonym_in context over the entire
collection it reveals{the joint activity which we
- are trying to protect. ;

 

 

 

4. Regarding the revelation of names of employees who
retired under cover, we request the Board to table its final
determination until the individuals have been contacted and
informed that their name is being considered for release. This
will allow the individual to consider the impact it will have and
convey relevant information. The Directorate database is not set
up to track individuals who were involved in specific operations.
We need the assistance of the employees to know their operational
involvement’s. Office of Central Cover has prepared and is
coordinating a letter to be sent to the employees which will both
inform them and ‘solicit their assistance/comments.

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

2

SECRET
104-10331-10085 .
Ta -. - + * SECRET

 

ESG 95-02
14 July 1995

-- MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM: Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to
Mexico City Station and the JFK Assassination

Records

1. At its monthly meeting on 17 July the ARRB will be
addressing the issue of the Mexico City Station and its operation
in light of any deletions made by the Agency to protect sources
and methods. The issues of greatest concern are those
surrounding teltap operations run by the Agency fand_the_/
(Mexican Services, official acknowledgment of which could have an
impact On liaison and foreign: rélationg. We therefore, wish to
maintain protection of this information. :

 

2. We are willing to release information which indicates
the existence of operational teltaps against the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies fas long as they appear unilateral and we can continue:
wants

 

 

to protect the existence of any participation of the Méxican

We are willing to release documents which indicate the
existence of Mexico City Station during times outside the window
which we have acknowledged when they contribute significantly to
the historical record. These steps will be useful to the
historic. record and reveal the extent of coverage. employed
against these targets. We would want to continue protection of
the information which identifies coverage of other countries and
individuals other than Lee Harvey Oswald.

 

3. We also ‘agree to release of the following:

A. ‘Pseudonyms of employees, aliases of employees,
and file numbers.

a

ch By (524343 "7

DECL OADR
DRV COV 2~87

SECRET
co . -  * > SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Release of Information Pertaining to Mexico
City Station and the JFK Assassination Records

_C/IMS/ESG/F. Wickham/44448/13 July 95

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DO/IRO
1 - ESG/HCS
1 - C/ESG

3

SECRET
