74-0000

SECRET

: Q
4. Mr. Heinonen stated that after (4 personal problems

were resolved in Boston, (LPGLOBE would request him to come to
Washington for discussions at which time they would advise us of
his plans.

055. On 2 April 1969, Mr. Heinonen called to advise that
Mr. mother had died and tha now plans to come
to Washington the latter part of next week, probably 11 April.

Mr. Heinonen will advise us when more definite plans are known.

 

istant General Counsel

ve
ce: CCS{LBGLOBE
C/E/F
C/CI/R&A
D/Security

OGC:IKG:bt
Distribution; oA

rOrig. -( subj file
1 - JKG signer
1 - Chrono

SECRET
 

" a re SECRET

OGC 69-0606

2 April 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
ea ) RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oniy
Not Reproduce

 

fo
SUBJECT: {

 

1. On 27 March 1969, Mr. Sam Papich, FBI Liaison,
advised Mr. Houston that the FBI office in New York stated that
Herbert Itkin was reluctant to make a guilty plea in the two mis-
demeanor cases pending before the New York State court. It was
the opinion of the FBI agents that Itkin could be persuaded to
accept this course of action but was merely negotiating at this
time for federal assistance in the custody hearing in the family
court in Westchester County. Mr. Papich also stated that a
hearing was anticipated on the custody question, and Itkin at this
point was suggesting that CIA's name be interjected into the
hearing to bolster his stature with the court,

 

2. We have not been advised that the State of New York has
withdrawn its motion to remand from the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York, nor has any date
been set for Itkin to appear before the New York State court,

03 3, Mr. Kenneth Heinonen on 1 April 1969 called to advise
that am) mother had suffered a massive heart
attack and was in a coma in a Boston hospital.°3 had been
advised of his mother's illness and was scheduled to arrive in
Boston on the afternoon of 1 April. I explained to Mr. Heinonen
the latest development with regard to Itkin's reluctance to accept
the agreed solution worked out between Messrs. Morgenthau and
Hogan, I also suggested to Mr, Heinonen that, while ap

was not likely to be subpoenaed at this Hime to appear in any New

 

 

 

York litigation, it would be advisable for to stay away
from New York so that his name would not be reintroduced into
the Itkin case,

 

 

Spd SECRET,
