13-00000

T. Jerdmy
General C

 

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff’s understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us
whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and cooperation.

 

 
 
 

and Associate Director for Research

:
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

DEC

  

HAND DELIVERY

 

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records :

Dear Barry: °
Iam writing to memorialize our conversation of October 1 regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.

We discussed the following formal requests:

CIA-1 (Organization materials)
CIA has made records available to the Review Board. The Review Board
staff will continue its review and make recommendations to the Board
and will request further information, if necessary, from CIA. CIA needs to
do nothing further at this time.

CIA-2-5 Complete .

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)
CIA originally informed the Review Board staff that these materials could
be made available by December, 1995. CIA now agrees to make the
records available (or to have a response) by the first of November, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Mexico City. CIA has shown the Mexico City history to Gunn. CIA will
compile the portion of the history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey,

 

Boarp Memaers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit lL. Hall + William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available. oO

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided.

CIA-10 (interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Oswald on

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original *
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.
Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.
Review Board staff ecarcth Oe Ge When research is complete, staff wil
discuss issues wn ‘rrvee ca\hocken w~ pe Wok fresh ‘

IN 23738. CIA i is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ Cop y SO

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review -
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff
13-00000

me coey

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW ~ 2nd Fioor « Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

  

October 27, 1996

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
Iam writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
Formal Requests:
CIA-1
Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
‘ November 1, 1996. .

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA's compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

 

Boaro MemeBers: Yok Ao Tunhewn, Chau + Henry F Geralfs Kermit l. Hall: Wolham to Joyce + Anna kK Nelson
Executive Director: Denil GO Maret!
13-00000 -

 

18 June 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

SUBJECT: Completion of ARRB Review of Certain Security
Files

1. The ARRB requested access to certain security files
and the same was granted.

2. Following review of such files, the reviewer,
Michelle Combs, directed that portions of each be copied and
made a part of the JFK assassination records. Further, that
the materials be review for release as soon as possible.

3. This request has been completed and copies of the

selected portions of the security files on the following
individuals have been place in the queue to be processed:

A. Ted Shackley -
B. William M. Kent ) CMA (L
Cc. Harold Weisberg

D Walter J. Sheridan

E. Gordon Novel

F. Jack L. Rubenstein (aka Jack Ruby)

4. Questions concerning this process should be made to
Barry Harrelson or Gary Breneman.

Gary eneman
13-00000

 

  

: .- CONFIDENTIAL
a ee
CL BY: GaBgN00
CL REASOM: Section 1.5 6 fit { G eho?
bECt on: X1 * rane
bay Frm: COV 1-82
27 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-

FROM: { Frieda P. Omasta @ DA

OFFICE: °

SUBJECT: f CIA-12 si ackley et al}

REFERENCE: Shatkley, Cross, Henry, Gupton (C1A-IR-12) DANRO No. 12

Bonnie:

This is with respect to your 26 February 1998 note wherein you asked that we check HRM for personnel files on Ron Cross, Bart
Henry and William Morris Kent. In an effort to bring the status of this particular tasking (CIA-IR-12) up-to-date, | provide the following:

My records show that on 18 July 1997 Barry requested that we conduct file searches on Ted Shackley, Ron Cross, Bart Henry and
Doug Gupton. We were advised by Barry, and as outlined in a 22 May 1996 letter from ARRB to John Pereira, that Cross, Henry and
Gupton are pseudonyms used by CIA personne! who testified to the HSCA.

Notwithstanding, we tasked OPS and HRM to conduct searches on these individuals in an effort to locate files. Qn 22 December 1996,
| advised Barry that HRM had located files on Ted Shackley and would provide them to Barry via this office once they arrived from RC. It
is my understanding that Becky gave you the OPF yesterday. HRM advsied further that they had attempted to locate files on Cross,
Henry and Gupten but failed to locate any files on these individuals in light of the fact that only the pseudos had been provided. We
further advised that if in the future you have access to the true names, we will glady search again.

   

On 23 December 1997, | advised Barry that:QPS had located files on TedShg Said AnggGupton and that the files were
in OPS for review. They were unable to locate ¢ a a record op Batt He ism understanding that you have not reviewed these files to
ange ‘ biducted the search back in July and | am certain that c A pe

And lastly, | have no record of ever Raving received a request to search on-Williany’Mérris‘Kemt. Accordingly, | will request OPS and
. HRM to do so.

Please fet me know if | have misinterpreted the status of this request. Thank you. Frieda

Original Text ee

CONFIDENTIAL
This completes CIA action on referent request. If you
have any questions, please call me.

Sincerely,

    

——— eco \O——
d. Barry Harrelso| :
 

104-10335-10010

 

Washington, D.C. 20505

 

Ms. Laura Denk, Esq. :

Executive Director shee Tae
Assassination Records Review Board oo :
600 E Street, N.W. 2nd Floor : soa se aol
Washington, D.C. 20530

 

Dear Ms. Denk:
Re: Response to CIA-12
The following is responsive to ARRB Request CIA-12.

The Agency has made a thorough search of its files
systems in an attempt to find files on the individuals noted
in referent request, namely, Ron Cross, Doug Gumpton, Bart
Henry, and Ted Shackley, particularly as their Agency
employment/association related to their service with JMWAVE.
The following files were located and have been reviewed, or
made available for review, by ARRB staff:

a. Cross, Ron -- An Office of Personnel Security
file was found but, with research, it was determined that

the subject of the file was not the Ron Cross sought by the
search.

b. Henry, Bart -- No files were found on “Bart
Henry,” which apppears to be an alias or pseudonym. Also,
no information was found to the name being registered as an
alias or pseudonym.

c. Gumpton, Doug -- Gumpton is an alias which was
used by retired Agency employee William M. Kent; Kent’‘s
personnel file is in the JFK microfilm; the search found
both his official Office of Personnel and Office of Security
files. :

d. Sanchez Morales, David -- Subject's Personel and
Security files are located within the JFK collection at JFK
Box 244, Folder 23 and microfilm (box 64) Box 57, Folder 11
respectively.

e. Shackley, Theodore G. Jr. -- Subject's official
Office of Personnel file; employee payroll file; official
Retirement file; and, Office of Security file were located.
 

EE ee _» UNCLASSIFIED

“CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS”
\ RELEASE IN FULL .* 6 August 1998

Se ee, 20000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, JFK Declassification
Project/HRP/OIM/DA

FROM: William McNair, DO/IRO

SUBJECT: (U)DO Response to CIA 12

REFERENCE: ARRB Request for Additional

Information and Records No. CIA-12

1. (U) This memorandum is in response to request number

12 (CIA 12) from the staff of the Assassination Records

Review Board (ARRB). The staff has requested “Access to all
» . . files relating to Ron Cross, Bart Henry,” among
others.

wee 2 (U) mie) cannot identify Ron Cross and Bart Henry
as true names. é@ information provided in the request
indicated the names were pseudonyms for people who testified
before the House Select Committee on Assassination.

3. (U) The CIA has checked the AllStar data system and
the DO Identity Registration Service but cannot identify
these names, Ron Cross or Bart Henry, as registered aliases
or pseudonyms.

4. (U) The CIA cannot provide any files on Ron Cross or
Bart Henry because of the reasons stated in Paragraphs 2.
and 3. above.

William McNair

UNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (U) DO Response to CIA 12

DO/IRO William McNair x@4440:mjk (6 August 1998)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - DO/IRO

1 - C/IMS/ESG ‘
1 - IMS/ESG/HCS

2

UNCLASSIFIED
