14-00000

 

 

 

of the people present, and this was obviously of a passive nature.
: None approached the office where the discussions were held. Subject
- knew all those present (about four in number, the rest of the work force
yt : being on vacation) and assured us that they were all trusted employees. :
Should they ask any questions, which Subject felt was unlikely except 7 .
thru possibly no:mal business curiosity, he would say that we were aut
just a customer interested in pricing jewelry, . me

 

betifoe te

'S. Items of interest, |
eres :

A. AMLASH. Subject discussed at length the problems of
talking to AMLASH, and about his general mental attitude today. The
"complexes" of AMLASH » referred to in other previous correspondence,
ineluded guilt feelings about people he has killed in Havana and the
necessity and validity of the act,and resolution of the preblem of his
wife, who, although they are separated, is still well-liked by AMLASH.
AMLASH, it seems, married her out of obligation, and although he doesn't my
love her in the husband-wife sense, he admires her and is concerned . :
for her welfare and happiness. The problems of the Cuban scene today
also are pressing upon AMLASH, i.e., the sell-out of the revolution by
Castro and the plight of the people. To interest AMLASH in defection, ao
it will probably be necessary to agree to attemst to get the wife, child :
(2 year old female) and the mother out of Cuba.

B. Commo Channel with AMLASH. When necessary to communicate i
securely with AMLASH, Subject has contact in Italian Embassy who takes !
letter into Cuba, gives personally to a cousin of Subject, who in turn
gives it personally to AMLASH. In this manner several months ago, Subject |
stated he told AMLASH to try again to come out this summer (62) and they i
could meet in Europe for talks. In reply, AMLASH sent2post card post- 7
marked Vienna 26 June. The postcard was mailed in an envelope. The
message Said that AMCASH hoped things didn't go as last year (no meeting)
and that he would expect to Subject in Paris during the last half of |
August. This posteard and envelope are attached herewith. i

C. Other Leads for Dissadents and Potential Defectors/Agents. ‘

t
real, oserto éevarria. ecretary in 3

. ° on
Cuban Ottawa Mission (Economie). “Informed Subject during his recent trip
to Montreal that 6 new members had been assigned to the Cuban Economic .
Mission (Phone 738-8883) but not sure of functions or actual office in >
which they working. (Trace phone number for answer.) Echevarria,

according to Subject, can probably be had. First, however, we mst

squash an old (1958) NYC police charge of stealing an auto. This was

used by Echevarria and an accomplice to take another Cuban for a ride .
because he had taken money from Echevarria's group for guns in the fight . .
against Batista, and then had not delivered. The victim was not hurt,
according to Subject, as he escaped from the flat where he was held when
the guards were asleep. If this charge is squashed, and Echevarria can
get eventual assylum here, this would be big incentive for him vis-a.
vis recruitment in place or defection according to Subject.

5 SRR ENE Net AR SECC ee ARIES

}
i

2.) Jose REVEILLON, might be possible to get in
the future, says Subject.

   
 

 

tS Ty ne . .

     

8 September 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: ©

sae

SUBJECT: AMWHIP/1 meetings, New York, 13 and 14 July 1962.

 

1. Meeting Times/Location, Subject was contacted by telephone
by the undersigned in New York at 1330 on Friday, 13 July 1962, and ,
arrangements were made to meet Subject the same day at 1700 in his office. . :
Subject's office is located on the third floor of 31 West h7th Street, _ :
New York, in the firm of Corleta, Inc., mamfacturers and wholesalers of !
‘ jewelry. The meetings were held at this location on Friday from 1700-to.
: 1930, and on Saturday from 1030 until 1215. The latter meeting was
terminated with a luncheon in a nearby restaurant, which lasted until ,
: 13h5. The account of both these meetings is condensed in the summary ot
: below. .

i 2. Purpese of Meetings. Subject was contacted in New York . ! j
i for the purpos? of” establishing a direct relationship with a Headquarters - oy
i c/o, determining the chances for another attempt at defecting AMLASH/1, |
: and if encouraging, setting up arrangements with Subject for his trip 7 Ot
: to Helsinki to aid in the defection effort. It also provided an . oy
; opportunity for the writer to make a preliminary assessment of Subject fo
{ prior to working with him in Helsinki. :

3. Travel and Financial Arrangements. Subject agreed to come 2 of
to Helsinki and/or elsewhere, if necessar>, to aid in defection attenpt
against AMLASH. He objected to an offer to meet his expenses in full i
but, as he later confessed, business not being what it was in Havana, an
agreed to accept the price of his ticket and all hotel expenses during the
trip. Entertainment, outside meals, ops costs, etc, he would abserb
himself. No salary’ or bonus was asked for nor offered. He will leave
New York City in order to arrive in Helsinki about 29 or 30 July. He
was advanced $750.00 for ticket and travel expenses.

 

i

t

} ky. Contact Arrangements. For USA. Subject was given the R

; undersigned's trie naze and home télepnone number for contact in DB. C. fd
He can also reach us thru our cover number if an emergency dictates.
For Helsinki. Subject was given the Embassy number there, and told
‘ask Tor William Thompson. He is to use his first name only. Additional

3 arrangements will be made there after the initial contact. Security. No

A incidents of a security nature occurred. ‘here were some employees anda

H jewelry contact (Cuban refugee) in the premises when we called. We were

! . shown around the layout, but were not introduced to the othere in the

i
i
2
'
4

firm, Only a normal curiosity was displayed or evidenced on the countenances

 

     

 

SEQPET
LS

eee ee te eae ene he pee ee cnn ene earns He Ete nae ted eaten te Ce meetie bbe eineeg Ane TM

ypnerc ansehen nn

 

 
  

 

TINGS Bam PaR ae

rE eens

  

SPP demon tte dt pete tory

{atom eA sea sanctum reer ein

 

— .

he lead us to b
whom Subject ha

Attachments;

3.)
eliey:
d con

™~, enre
Waiae
Subject wag not quizzed in dep

@ that this in

formation was al.

tacted in Miami,

Post Card & envelope

 

 

 

ae

th on the leads as
ready known by AMCONCERT/1,

 

 

 

 

 

   

ces a enna cee

 

 
