ADMINISTR ~ INTERNA

’

SUBJECT: Request for Access to HSCA Records

> 3. I then informed Mr. O'Neil that the new historical
review group would have at least fifteen officers and that
this group would likely review the material. Mr. O'Neil
then stated that he concurred in the transfer of custotly and
in the request for access by CSI personnel.

x

4. Based on this conversation, I have signed thé
reference indicating my approval of your request. - During
the course of your review, you should continue to coordinate
closely with Litigation Division, OGC, and this Office to
ensure that decisions to release are consistent with
litigation and other requirements.

4. Please call me on x35467 if I may be of any further
assistance.

 

 

 

cc: C/DO/IMS
C/LD/OGC
104-10331-10006

 

OCA 1180-92 -
2 APR i997

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Kenneth McDonald
Chief, CIA History Staff

 

 

 

FROM: —
Deputy Director of Congressional Affairs ‘

SUBJECT: Request for Access to HSCA Records

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum dtd 13 April 1992;

Same Subject (CSI 92-0201)

1. In the reference, you requested approval for all
members of CSI to have access to all records that CIA holds
relevant to the HSCA investigation into: President Kennedy's

assassination. Upon receiving this approval, CSI would

request affected components to transfer custody of the 64
boxes of material in question to CSI.

2. Today, I called Michael O'Neil, Special Assistant
to the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Mr. O'Neil
serves as the focal point for questions arising with respect
to the segregated HSCA collection. I informed Mr. O'Neil of
your request, noted that the DCI had promised an expeditious
review of these documents, and requested his concurrénce to
proceed with the transfer of custody. Initially, Mr. O'Neil
wondered whether this action would frustrate the purposes of /
the Joint Resolution currently being considered by the
Congress. Specifically, since the documents would be
provided to a Review Board pursuant to the resolution, would
transfer at this time to the CSI hinder that purpose? I
told Mr. O'Neil that if the Joint Resolution passed in its
current form, we would instruct the CSI to transfer the
holdings to the Board. If the Joint Resolution did not
pass, we would have a head start on reviewing the documents.

TI -
