74-0000

~ [Skcrer

 

2s

4

2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 Septexber and ve discussed the following 4
matterst i j
nt. 4 ,
a. I told hin about the visit of Angel BGS. Be he : :
fos tad ssh fen ts enter ot eat Jou, ‘
that te Szxi on 1 September and
left on 3 Septeber. EOS ig a secret
police agent. Beraie is to see or details an OY
this. (Comment: Reichhercs's report was received : . {
on 1 Seotesber.) i i ;
po —

be Reichhardt asked me to check on his macy situation : bo,
since no deposit hes been mide. : 4 . ‘

: ; ee Reichhardt asked if I hed seen copies of the nows i
1 letter being distributed by Emilio ‘232% Portuonde - i
1 called Latin ‘nerican iverzse W "EZ is listed as

. editor and pablisher and tre firm is istin Ameriem
Affaire Inc., 1923 Connecticut Avemes washingtote
The first issue wee publissed on 7 mugzste The 17 :

zagast ismue includes a list of Communists (Comsent s Le A .
X aa arranging for the Cla Library to procure loan . hod A
‘ . 1
|

‘
é

 

conies of the publication fr me to reviews)

he OWE was in Micmi Lest week. CATZGA did not see hing
but according to CHTEGA's scurces, JES atrongly tee i i
plied thet bs bas secceeded in obtaining US support . : i
in the Departsents of State and Defeme including . :
commitments for training sites in the Inited Stetase i
WZ also said that ha is in touch uith Col. Kinge
; This was covered in UMut-lSe ; .
3. On 15 Septeaber I taliad vith Reichhardt concerning the following

 

 

Oh

. i @e Ricardo LORIE sav KOS. Bernie will see LORIE about thise
a : be Bernie will see POL this wek. ’
fos . 7 Ce the addresses for the tuo evzcuces ute cane by way of
. FE] Salvador are not cormcte I told Bernie to try
find. cut viere they are from the third, with unor Be
is in contect.
de Bernie asks that nia leesh travel order be renewed.
(Comments I checked this and the order hes been
renewed through 31 Deceaber 19572)

che On 15 Soptenber the following natters vere discugsed with
_ Reichhardts :

   

 

 

fae
 

(o4- 10167-10083

  

 

* OL SOD EF |

22 Septenber 1959

_ WEMORATOUN FOR [5% EECORD

SUBJzC?: Conversations with ZEICHHARDT, 8, 9, 16, 17 Septeaber 1959

1. On 8 Leotenber Reichhardt phoned te report the following:

Ge

Ee took Marcos DIAZ Lans to the office of INS on Hon=
day, 7 Septender to take care of tds imicration
states, (Comet: I was later called by Bill Corr
ef the Alien ursach, (5 concerning tole. CCITER said
that when they reported tris to INS « that service said
that &£5NENS, the TXS san in Niemi has told then thet
DIAZ hearing had already been held shortly after his
arrival. COTTER immlied tnat Bernie was not revorting .
accurately on tha aituaticn in Mieai. I have not ree
peated this to sernie, becanse Alien bra:ch seeas to be
in something of @ tissy in regard to the new pecole in
T&S with whos they are dealing as a result of recent
transfers of versonnsl.)

Borate asked we to clarify stat I ; ex
Borxis asked we to clarify chat I wanted in ths way of

an affidavit of suooort. for the wife of “arcos DIiz.

I dictated a simple stsvenent and told Eerale to have
4t notarized and eeccomanied by a bang statement er
similar document indicating KILLIAMS' ability to support

flee FR when tt £0 bene ne mee enn
Seee F Suk Ae UEtOGS Levessarye

“Bernfe reported that Yrs. Catherine TAAIS, the dater=.

mational busybody clains that she is going to Cuba on
our instigation. che is accommanted by her entire
fenily.. This information cane froa the Hiani Chief
of detectives to the OO Kepresentative.

Bernie asked how he could identify himself to the three -

eveccees in Miani ve have Lostructed hia to contect re
going to the Dordnican Kescblic on our behalf, I told”
hia to ase Dave Morales nates : .

Be asked ne for inforastica oa car dispatch to-Cara in
eoonesction with the 7hCs for ACO and the gift. I
told him I'd obsck and let Die know. (Comment: The
game day I sav a dispatch from davana anavering the
questions, a5 info copy of which went to Bernie.) .

 

 

 

 

 

 

NBL Bere

|
|
i

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Be

- have miserenresented what wis said. (Consent: ke cane

oy

Lo

 

* LV ae wld. |
SS5ciNTSt Re called in the morning to ask for infor=
mastion on this sam, According to keichhardt, LOA
says that be was firc i: fron the DIER fer anti-Cone
mnist activities and was expected to arrive in Nien
lest night, UAT is worried about hin because of his
previcus post as Yo. 2-man in the DI:%. The Cuban card
ecnfirms that.be hald the. latter post.

De LORIE says that he now FUS well, and lilos hin,
They nat in Miami last week. RCS is in Miami apain,g
EOS is principally interested in getting Reynaldo
BiAXCO out of Cuba. RCS says he was told the American
Eubsesy can have no part of this but sugzested be (CS)
esk Ta LORIE to see nis Atend contact scout essistances
Sernie discouraged LCKTZ abcut helping KLANCO. Bernie
feels it is rcrange that Station tiavana would tell RCS
about ICRIE's Miawi contact and that the former aight

not positively identify BiAucO - although such an indi~
Widual wee Meted by LCRIZ and the blaz Lanz as an Aray
efficer, ie aay have been one of the 1957 regular arsy
pletters.).

LEBTS also asked help in converting Pesos to dollars.
Bernie did not give hin an ansver on thise

URIS said be wants to establish contact vith ROS.
Ths plan we heve so far only envisezes ccvanication .
fren RCS in Ravana to (CRI. while sernie would pree
fer to handle the uatter personally, I think I cone _
vinced hin that this is unfeasible because of the
£ provocation. Hs therefore siggested having -
brought into the picture, amonynously, as an
@1 vho would get in touch with LORIE whea there
4s something for him from ROS.< amd who will call LGRIE
periodically to find: cut if LORIE wants to trensmit
« This scumis OX to me. Bernie will
seal data the aout fov Saye’ ca this .
OY . ,
Loess toual Seraie that Cuban opposition views BOSSAL's
trip tothe US as a victory for the opposition = tat
that if KWSAL returned to Cuba they xill view the
return es @ trinmph for CASTRO. .

4ecording to an 0O source Mrs, Katherine TAAPE will be
weturning to the US from Caba in a few days. She told
at least one dserican in Cuba, Barry Rosenfeld, that she
is working for Cla,

Se groper

 

catenin spit vie aml

{tented aon At mittee

‘

waked na aden hy, ahs.

   
 
74-0000

 

   

™ coor
SEORET,

  

he

 

g. In comection with my earlier query re the report from 4
Cubs that the Revolutionary Air Force is planning to ;
Penove a couple of planes fru: the 5S to Caba withost 2 i

; |
i

 

an rt permit, cernie got tha following information
oY A Cuban.air. foree miasion 1s-4n: Miasd-cone
aircraft. The Cutens are hapyy with the

ce:
over hag hamiled things for thes even though they
‘don’ We the export license ret. foe been asked OY

to a party in Havana to be given by Jian Almeida in his i
honor. Ee may go on Friday. Lo ve have requirecents j :
for hin? . } i

Se On the morning of 17 August I phoned Bernie to tall him shout the i
foltowp on the resort cencernize the planes (Haba 2653}. He said qos
phoned him on the evening of 16 Seotenber about this. Hernie said pass

. the information to Custoss, who said that since the Cohei air Force are the
1 owners of the plance (they are AT 6's) there is little that can be done if
oo thay file Mlicht pians for a local flight and then leave for Cuba, They

 

 

asked Bernie for cuggestions ard na said he had uone. reports that“. ;
the Cubens asked hia if he could find American pilots the planes ~ i
and be said he'd try, tat actually has no intention of doing 80. oY ae
was ivpressed at the speed and accuracy of our information, bat bY - ff

that the Guben Government: is being precipitate in expecting to-ges- the
Planea cute .

 

TS etc metic of te tes enna meee a tay eee ee eel neste

5
nsinatathbin dint 6 wea
~.
se

 

 

  
