  

 

PERSONNEL ~

L

 
   

i
HR 20-54b

. POLICY

(1) Agents cannot claim rights and ‘privileges normally granted to U.S.
Government employees; therefore, they will not be managed in accordance
with normal personnel and administrative standards.

(a)

(b)

Initial approval of the Counter Intelligence Staff is required before any

commitments are made or any classified information is disclosed to.

an agent.

Agents will receive compensation, benefits, and emoluments in amounts

and a manner deemed best by the Operations Directorate to motivate

and control them, subject to the following limitations:

(1) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide gross com-
pensation (basic compensation, additional compensation, fees, etc.)
at a rate which, if projected on an annual basis, would exceed the
maximum rate for a GS-15, without prior approval of the Director.

This limitation applies only to payments made by the Agency. It .

does not apply to bona fide cover income.

(2) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide special bene-
fits, without the prior approval of the Director of Personnel. Special
benefits are Agency obligations other than basic compensation,

normal overseas cost of living payments, and travel or operational |

expenses.

(3) No commitment may be made to an agent that appointed status

(ce)

(d)

(e)

 @

(2)

will be offered at the conclusion of his service unless such com-~

mitment has been recommended by the Deputy Director for

Operations or his designee, with the concurrence of the Director of

Security, and has been approved by the Director of Personnel.
Engagement of agents will not ‘be subject to Agency personnel ceiling
controls.

In general,. agents will not be required to meet Agency medical stand-.

ards. However, if an agreement with an agent obligates the Agency
to provide medical or disability benefits, a medical examination will
be carried out, unless precluded by security considerations.

Agents who are U.S. citizens, resident allens, or foreign nationals in
the United States, must pay Federal tax on all income derived from
their association with the Agency. Procedures for satisfying Federal
tax liability will be “determined by the Covert: Tax Board. (See BR
20-35.)

The use of retired civilian annuitants of the U.S. Government as agents
will be governed by policy set forth ih HR 20-13.

AL commitments made or implied to agents will be recorded in ‘either a
Formal Agreement or a Memorandum of Oral Commitment.

(a)

(b)

A Formal Agreement is a written agreement, signed by the agent. and
an authorized Agency representative. Formal Agreements will be nego-
-tiated whenever operationally feasible,

A Memorandum of Oral Commitment is a written record of an agree~
ment, signed by an authorized Agency representative but not by the
agent. Use of Memorandums of Oral Commitment will be limited to
those cases when it is in the Agency’s best interest not to solicit an
agent’s signature on a Formal Agreement.

(c) An agent will never be given a copy of the Formal Agreement or  Memo-
randum of Oral Commitment.
. *Revised: 23 February.1973 (733) aun | ||HRD

SECRET Ct By: 602230

 
13-00000

  

    
  
   
 
    
  
    
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

SECRET
HR 20-55 - PERSONNEL PERSONNEL

(2) The Directs
re RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES personnel 5]

(1) The Deputy Director for Operations is authorized to @3 examine thi
’ (a) formulate procedures for the engagement and management of agents : sonnel. If t

 

and to issue operating directives and special instructions, as necessary, i Ofting or i
to control the use of agents by headquarters and fleld units; tract requei
(b) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo- : : are written!
randums of Oral Commitment with agents; and to review Formal HR 45-2. |
‘a and Memorandums of Oral Commitment executed in the j (3) The approvi
(a) for Proj

(c) suspend procedures implied in this regulation upon his personal deter- dental ‘
mination that operational and security aspects of an agent’s manage- reports,|
ment are.so sensitive as to require processing through special channels. task pe
(2) The Director of Personnel is authorized to () oe (Fi
(a) approve, after coordinating with affected Agency components, the ‘ requires
commitment to an agent that he will receive special benefits; © ; testing,,
. (b) approve the commitment to an agent that he will be offered appointed : follow-1!
status at the conclusion of his service; when such commitment has . tion—ri|

ignee, with the concurrence of the Director of Security; c. RESTRICTIONS

|

|

been recommended by the Deputy Director for Operations or his des- | above,

. {

(c) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo- | (1) Operating ¢

 

 

randums of Oral Commitment when requested to do so by the appro- through thi

priate Operations Directorate approving officer. This authority may also erly briefed:

be exercised by the Deputy Director of Personnel and the Special Con- Agency infec
tracting Officer, Office of Pérsonnel.. Operating (

the relatior

(3) All Formal Agreements and Memorandums of oral Commitment written | affects the
under the authority of this paragraph will be subject to legal review by 3 curity. clear

L, the General Counsel under such conditions as he may prescribe. a (2) Technical 1.
6 { . - procuremen

a -employer-e1

55, PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF — { organization.
INDIVIDUALS» i istrative au!
. ; . a . ; i . the Agency:

a. POLICY. Procurement contracts whose basic purpose 18 to obtain the services cles, private:

of one or more individuals, negotiated with profit and nonprofit institutions, : 56-89. Reserved. |
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, and other organizations, are per- : :
mitted only when the particular services sought cannot be obtained in any

other practicable way.

b. PROCEDURES -

(1) Except as provided in subparagraph b(3) below, all proposals for such
procurement contracts and their renewal must be justified in writing by
the component seeking the services and be submitted to the Director of
Personnel for his approval before commitments are made or negotiations
started. These proposals will describe in some detail the services to be ren-
dered, the qualifications required, the proposed duration of the task, and
the reason or reasons why a procurement contract is judged | fo be the
best method of acquiring the needed services.

"130 Oe | swRevised: 23 February 1973. (733) * Revised: 23 Febru)
-. SECRET . : :

 
13-00000

  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  

SECRET |
HR 20-54 PERSONNEL ~PERSONNEL

r (b) make periodic reviews and medical reevaluations of contract personnel
when requested to do so.

(5) DEPUTY DIRECTORS AND HEADS OF INDEPENDENT OFFICES will en-
sure directorate uniformity of contract administration in matters such as
qualifications determination, compensation, allowances and other benefits,
personnel record keeping, systematic cost accounting, performance evalua-
tions, cover determination and training, terminations, and security and
medical approval processing requirements.

(6) THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING will provide appropriate training courses and @ many

.and facilities for contract personnel. and control
- (1) THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE will . () No com
(a) administer pay, leave, and allowance entitlements of contract person- : pensati

bp. POLICY

(1) Agents cannot :
Government em|

_ with normal pei

(a) Initial appre
commitmen:! .

an agent.

(b) Agents will :

nel consistent with contract provisions and cover requirements; at a rat

(b) in coordination with the Covert Tax Board, administer a secure system maxim
for the settlement of Federal income tax and social security tax ob-
ligations.

d, AUTHORITIES

(1) The Director of Personnel, his Deputy, and the Special Contracting’ Officer
(Chief, Contract Personnel Division) are, upon request of a Deputy Director,
an Operating Official, Head of Independent Office, or a duly appointed
contract approving officer, authorized to execute, amend, renew, and
terminate contracts with contract personnel.

(2) Deputy Directors and Heads of Independent Offices may designate Con-

. . tract Approving .Officers to approve contracts when Payment is to be

- charged against funds under their control.

(3) Authority delegated to Chiefs of Station and Base under the provisions of |
FR 20-31 Is subject to the following limitations:

(a) All contracts executed in the field will be subject to review by the
Director of Personnel.

{b) Deputy Directors may limit the exercise of the authority granted to
chiefs of field installations to any extent they deem desirable.

(c) Contracts prepared by headquarters will be amended only by, or with
the prior approval of, headquarters. Contracts executed in the field
may be amended in the field, but all such amendments must be for-
warded to headquarters.

(4). All contracts written under the authority of this regulation will be subject
to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may
prescribe.

 

(3) ‘No con}
will be-

_mitmer:
Operat
Secarit.

(ce) Engagemer|
controls.
(a) In general.

ards. Howe

to ‘provide

_ be carried
(e) Agen wh:
e United:
thelr BSS0C
tax liabilit!

20-35.)

(f) The use of.
' will be go"
(2) All commitme!:
Formal Agreet!
(a) A Formal |
‘an author!
tated whi
-(b) A Memors
ment, sigt,
agent. Ust

_ those cast
_ agent's sit]

" (c). An agent *
randum a

e PROCEDURES. Requirements and procedures concerning personnel records,
' personnel actions, security approvals, cover, cover salary, medical evaluations,
compensation, qualifications determination, training, and processing of con-

. tracts, are set forth in HHB 20-12.

54. AGENTS. This paragraph sets forth policy, responsibilities, and authorities
concerning Te engagement and the management of agents.

a. GENERAL. Agents are willing manpower assets, unique to the Operations —

. Directorate, who carry out espionage and covert action tasks on behalf of the

Agency. Agents are not employees of the U.S. Government. They are self-

. employed individuals whose services may be acquired or terminated at any

_ time. Care must be taken to distinguish between agents, defined herein, and
independent contractors, defined in HR 20-53a(2).

128 Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) Revised: (23 Februsi

; SECRET

 
13-00000

3ONNEL

gbligating +

'

s engaged ©
king spe- |

‘ency and |
ay to his ;

i
1, for op- |
mey staff .

strictions: ©

ts for in- °
aust have -
os Direc- ,
ivities for ©
wities will
ed by the

atrols and
uring the
2 excluded

However,
ecution of
a contract
ons of the .

ned before :
before any

t

nployee of |

pproval of
erned and

t
appointed |
juring any

xe Director -

rior to the
ical assess-
:s in whom
be carried

xet Agency
y provision
xy benefits,
@ psycho-

1973 (733) “Revised: 23 February 1973 (733)

b.

 

SECRET

PERSONNEL } HR 20-53c

r (j) Contract personnel candidates. whose employment with the Agency

cannot be acknowledged must be provided adequate cover and an ap-
propriate cover legend. This requires that legal entitlements and other
contractual benefits be provided and tax liabilities satisfied in a
manner consistent with the character of the cover and cover legend.

(k) Although staff employees are expected to sever active connections with
the Agency upon retirement, there may be instances in which continua-
tion in service under contract after retirement is necessary or clearly
in the best interests of the Agency. The use of retired annultants under
contract is governed by policies specified in HR 20-13.

() Not used.

(m) Contracts providing for basic compensation at a rate which, if pro-
jected on an annual basis,.would exceed the maximum annual rate
for a GS-15, will not be executed without the approval of the Director
of Central Intelligence. All such requests will be forwarded through
the Director of Personnel for his recommendation.

¢. RESPONSIBILITIES
(1), THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL will

(a) formulate contract personnel management policies and procedures and ~

provide guidance in improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the
program within the Agency; :

(b) monitor contract personnel management to assure consistency among :

the directorates while giving due regard to. their differing needs;
(c) provide a repository for sensitive suitability information ‘using the
guidelines for special files set forth in HR 20-60b(4);
-(a) approve and authenticate contracts;

{e) monitor contract employee ceiling authorizations established by the
Director of Central Intelligence;

(f) maintain computer-based records’on contract personnel and ensure
currency and accuracy of input and output data.

(2) THE DIRECTOR. OF SECURITY will
(a) establish standards and procedures for granting security approvals
which meet the Agency’s contract personnel requirements;

(b): grant security approvals for the use of contract personnel including
their access to classified information and Agency installations;

(c) ensure currency and adequacy of security approvals by making periodic
reviews and reevaluations;

(d) provide a repository for all security information Pertaining to con-
tract personnel.

(3) THE CHIEF, CENTRAL COVER STAFF will .

(a) provide cover and cover legends for contract personnel whose em-—

ployment by the Agency cannot be publicly acknowledged;

{b) ensure currency of such cover and cover legends by: making periodic
reviews and reevaluations;

{c) ensure: that the methods of providing legal entitlements and con-
tractual benefits and satisfying tax Mabilities are consistent with aS-
signed cover and cover legends.

(4) THE DIRECTOR OF MEDICAL SERVICES will
(a) establish standards and procedures for medical and psychiatric evalua-.

JA tions and for psychological assessment ‘of contract personnel;

SECRET | CL By: 002230

 

ro

ca Re seine aN Ree or Slee

 

 
13-00000

 

PERSONNEL HR 20-53

r53. CONTRACT PERSONNEL. This paragraph sets forth policy, authorities, 7;
and responsibilities concerning the management of contract personnel. It does :
not apply to consultants (see HR 20-52), to personal services acquired through :
industrial or procurement contracts (see HR 20-55), to personnel employed by .
proprietary projects (see HR 230-8), or to agents (see HR 20-54).

a. GENERAL. There are two categories of contract personnel: contract employees :
and independent contractors. :
(1) CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. Although they are not appointed employees,

contract employees are employees of the U.S. Government. They have all
the rights and privileges granted by law to U.S. Government employees
in accordance with their citizenship status as well as those rights and
privileges specified in their contracts. They work under supervised con-
ditions and are compensated on a salary basis. Contract employees are
grouped into three categories:

' (a) Career Associate (Type C) Contract Employees: Contract employees °
who perform duties, usually of a clandestine and operational nature,
on a career basis. They are normally required to demonstrate their ;
operational value to the Agency for not less than three years, in the 1
case of U.S. citizens, or not less than five years, in the case of foreign i
nationals, to qualify for career associate status. When it is necessary
for a career associate to have the staff-type access to an Agency instal-
lation or classified Information, he must meet the same security ap-
proval criteria as a staff employee.

(b) Internal (Type I) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged
for a specific period of time, who normally work inside Agency instal-
lations. They are required to meet the same security approval criteria

‘as staff employees, but are permitted only such access to classified
information as is authorized in their security approval and is required
in the performance of their duties. .

{c) External (Type E) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged
for a specific period of time, who normally work outside Agency in-
stallations. They are not required to meet the same security approval
criteria as staff employees and. are not permitted the same access
to Agency installations as staff employees or internal contract em-
ployees. They are permitted only such access to classified information
as is authorized in their security approval: and is required in the per-
formance of their duties.

t : . : (2) INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS are not employees of the US. Government..
a : . : . They are self-employed individuals who are engaged under contract to
provide specific services. They receive only the compensation and benefits

considered necessary to retain their services. In the Operations Directorate,.

their duties are normally limited to historical research and analysis and”
to the direction, utilization, spotting, or support of agents. They normally

do fict carry out espionage or covert action tasks. (Care must be taken’
: to distinguish between independent contractors, defined herein, and | agents,

7, , : defined in HR 20-54.)

. POLICY

L

| (1) Contract personnel may be engaged when. : va

| (a) it is necessary to provide for operational or support needs which can-
j not be met through the use of available staff personnel;

i (b) services are. required of particularly well-qualified individuals who:
L cannot meet all requirements for staff employment;

 

 

-wsRevised: 23 February 1973. (733) 425
: SECRET
4 . . .

  
13-00000

  

: * Py .
: ; I ; ; :
‘SECRET
HR 20-53b(2) PERSONNEL
+ ; r (e) there is a requirement to meet operational needs without obligating _-

the Agency to long-term employment;

(d) the nature of the mission for which the individual is being engaged
precludes his being subject to administrative control or working spe- ;
cifically defined hours; fe

{e) the individual’s primary employer or interest is not the Agency and : i
the services the Agency desires from him are supplementary to his i
primary interest or vocation; or :

(f) there is a long term requirement for personal services which, for op-

. 7 perational or security reasons, cannot be performed by Agency staff
ees . . personnel. : aj
(2) The engaging of contract personnel is subject to the following restrictions:

(a) New contracts, contract renewals, and contract amendments for in-
j : dividuals under current or anticipated nonofficial cover, must have
{ prior approval of the appropriate component of the Operations Direc-
: torate. ce.

(b) Contract personnel may be engaged only for approved activities for
which funds have been made available. Funds for these activities will
be budgeted annually and will not exceed limitations imposed by the
head of the component concerned.

a {c) Contract employees are subject to directorate manpower controls and .
1 : . ceilings established by the Director of Central Intelligence during the
2G annual budgetary review cycle. Independent contractors are excluded
from ceiling controls.

(d) Contracts will, whenever. possible, be written and signed. However,

when special security or operational factors prevent the execution of

. . a formal written contract, 2 memorandum in lieu of such a contract

: may be prepared to document the commitments and obligations of the
Agency and the individual.

(d) Appropriate security or operational approvals will be obtained before
any contractual commitments are made to individuals and before any’
disclosure to them of classified information.

(f) No commitments relating to the use of the services of an employee of
‘another Government agency will be made without prior approval of
the Operating Official or Head of Independent Othice concerned and
the Director of Personnel.

(g) No commitments will be made to contract personnel that appointed

t : employment status will be offered at the conclusion of or during any

! . period of their contract service; without prior approval of the Director
: of Personnel and the Director of Security. .

: th) Contract employees must meet Agency medical standards prior to the
i approval and authentication of their contracts. A psychological assess-.
[4 : ment and psychiatric evaluation of those contract employees in whom .
. : the Agency may have more than a short-term interest willbe carried
. out whenever feasible.

F : (i) Independent contractors are normally not required to meet Agency
- : medical standards; however, if their contract contains any, provision
. which obligates the Agency to provide medical or. disability benefits.
a satisfactory medical examination is required, to include a psycho-
u logical assessment and psychiatric evaluation, if necessary.

 

 

 

 

  

  

126 ne __ Revised: 23 February 1973 3 (758)
SECRET 3

  
13-00000

From Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary

AGENT: 1) A power that acts; a moving force; as by some human AGENT. |
2) One who acts or performs an act or who has power to act;
as, a free moral AGENT.
3) That which produces or will produce a certain effect;
an active cause; also, esp. chem., a substance or
element capable of producing a reaction.
4) A means or instrument.
5) One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by :
authority for him. :
:
ASSET: 2) That which is a resource; as, character is an asset. :
SOURCE: 2) The origin; the first or ultimate cause.
3) A person, book, document, etc. that supplies information.
COLLABORATOR: n.
COLLABORATE:
1) To work or act jointly, esp. to share in
literary, scientific, or other intellectual production.
2) To cooperate voluntarily as a nation with another or
other nations in international political or economic
adjustment.
3) To comply with, cooperate with, or assist willingly *
the conquerors occupying one's country; --~usually
with an implication of traitorous dealing
in distinction from passive acquiescence; also, i
sometimes to give to an enemy nation: aid of nonmilitary
Aind, as by radio propaganda in enemy service.
WITTING: Done with the knowledge of the doer, or knowingly; ‘

not unintentional.

UNWITTING: 1)
2)

Not knowing; unconscious; unaware.

Unintentional.
104-10439-10113

t
boas Loe .

 

re: HCSA Request of 9 March, 1978, item #2:
"A statement, including any written regulations,
which establishes the criteria utilized by the

CIA in classifying its relationships with individuals
with whom it has had contact...."

Attached are:

1. DEFINITIONS OF; AGENT, ASSET, SOURCE, COLLABORATOR,
WITTING & UNWITTING ©
2. Hqs Regulations on Management of Nonstaff Personnel

20-53 on Contract Personnel to define
Contract Employees and

Independent Contractors and
20-54 Agents (& clearly distinguish between

agents and contract personnel)
3. DOI 50-10 on Restrictions on Operational Use of
Certain Categories of Individuals
Ca primer on do's & don'ts)
4. DOI (CSI) 10-5 on Covert Approvals and Related Matters
. (processes required before an

individual may be used in any way)
13-00000

4 1
y . .

 

os : S-E-C-R-E-T

‘ : HQ. INSTRUCTION SHEET 733

« : ‘ Paragraph 53 is revised

to Pace TS hie
On = personne nor

revisions are made to up-
date the paragraph.

 

Former paragraph 54, Pro-
curement Contracts for the
Services of Individuals,
is renumbered 55 with no
change in text.

New paragraph 54, Agents,
is added to establish
authorities and responsi-

bilities for the manage~
iment of agents and to

3/9/64 ; ; Rescinded.

Arrows in the page margin show the locations of the changes
described above. : : .

: : DISTRIBUTION: AB

_B2 IMPDET
S-E-C-R-E-T CL BY: 002230

 

   

 

 
13-00000

  

PERSONNEL HR 20
CONTENTS—Continued

ia @
\ Paragraph Title

 

 

j. VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT ........,...... 0... ev eeeeldaee
k. DISCONTINUED SERVICE BENEFITS ..00......0..0..0..
1. Not used. .
. INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT ...............00..0.00. re |
. MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE Lee
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FUND ....... eee eee ee tees
. PERIOD OF SERVICE FOR ANNUITIES ..................
COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES ..........
. RECALL OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT ...
REEMPLOYMENT OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT ..
MONIES 2. .00 0 eee

   
   
 

FoeanavopoB,

 

55. PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF

 

|  ENDEVEDUALS 000 cece deve ees 130
© 56-59. Reserved _ . : :
N4 ur ;
; : SECTION IX: RECORDS AND REPORTS
60. - PERSONNEL RECORDS AND REPORTS .................... 155
; “i Figure - Title oe Page
CU DISTINGUISHED INTELLIGENCE CROSS........... Deveees 94.1

1

2. DISTINGUISHED INTELLIGENCE MEDAL .................. . 94.0
3. INTELLIGENCE STAR .....................

4. INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MERIT .....

4a. CAREER INTELLIGENCE MEDAL .......
5. EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE MEDALLION

 

6. RETIREMENT MEDALLION ..
“4 FORM 600, RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT ;
AWARD 20 cece ete tebe etna 95.

8. Reserved

i 9. OFFICIAL SEAL OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 100.2
10. AGENCY FLAG . 100.2
i: AGENCY PLAQUE . 100.2

| 12. ‘TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE CHANGES IN ENROLLMENT OF

 

_ EMPLOYEES |... : Lee eceeesvententettsiectetvveciees 108

Attachment Title - Page
(( \-. .) BIOGRAPHIC DATA TO BE SUBMITTED BY AN EMPLOYEE —
ms UNDER COVER ON AN INTENDED SPOUSE .............. 29

2. FORM 3154, SERVICE ABROAD AGREEMENT .............. 52.1

i° Revised: 23 February 1973. (733) - i

meeps on eames baie ete gantntinnay ype mene nettee a

   
