13-00000

 
 
 
  

 

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRogrand
RELEASE IN FULL 1998

 
  

, | DATE RECEIVED

Tee +

   

~ 4 —
FEDIECT MAME
los crveTo

 

 

   
  

  
    
 

REFERRED FOR ACTION TO
SECTION: S;

PROJECT OFFICER S

 

   

OGTU

 

  

 

 
 

Tre OF suPPORT: alTH Gr CA) eR

 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

 

   

"REQUEST linclude type a Hems. mumber of iems, purpose Heme
eslor celled TED/
vonse So the fo

use COUNTY: etc.

22 vcerber .2

        

      

 
 
 

“6s plus the deze” (ua
lon} registretio= Pleceé i
the country cy midnignt ef

 

   
 
  

  
 

 
 

thet ne
indicate

 

   
   

 
 

aa's are there in Moscow:
re are they located?
Cgalreve Ulitse:

         
   

“WORA-D.A. VIDEDA"

 
 

ives an Ane
pesentiy ave.

    
 

   

 

   

RECORD OF ACTION :
kept by the tourist. He was issued a Soviet visa in a foreign country (anspecified)
valid for six (6) days efter crossing the Soviet border. ‘he Moscow OVIR registration
indicated thet he could stay in the coumtry until the 22nd (do 22-0g0), presumably
of October 1959. He had his visa extended, but possibly erroneously, ‘the 22nd wes
once again entered as the “do” date. He was subsequently informed that ke would have
to leave the commtry by midnight of the Zist. (Somehow he managed to stay on. Eo
details were provided). :

 
    

    
          
 

  
      
 

 

On arrival in Moscow (He was alone) he was met ty an intourist guide who ‘took

him to e hotel. . Information concerning e hotel registration wes not available.
Requestor @id not Imow if the visa was a tourist visa (i.e. marked tourist).

1

     
  

     
    

 

i

   
  
  
 

      

CONCUR WIT
RECORDED VE

  

ABOVE Dy
REGUS non: Sad Lae
: 3: Ca acti
signature

 
 

D-AGE fan “63°
2 tet need ie en Se ante tae

 

The President of the United States of America, Jonn F Kernedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald by direct order of the government of
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. “Kow all is over* was password
to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist but he
must assassinate Kennedy. Ve etablised’ contact with Oswel a already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as'a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. Vhen Lee E Oswald had returned fo USA we
contacted nim anew una Iresheued up bis ming “you have mo & Spy
for us" and told him what could happen to him if FBI got informed.
Now we had him. He got his last information in hexico. /It was not
good to assassinate Kennedy in kexico/ "Fair Play for Cuba" was
started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro for the ase

ssassinatec. Our government thought that USA should attacz Cuba

when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the essassin-
ation. When Cuba was attacked by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend
himself, It that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for 4-
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this war and whole the world should be Comministic. Then we should
assassinate Krastjev and. other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader
of the NEE, HORD. When this letter will reach you they have maked
away with (me and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is avchinese spy-shool.
ky name is Ryo Liang Yuan. Officer in the department for State-secret.
If you do ‘uot belive this letter explain our hate to USA. ~
|
13-00000

  
     
   
  

. ot
. | Na
; mo
| coupe say pe ces Amerioan Embassy
veep feet GE TE Strandvagean 101
l Uiwitcd STATES os lial, §C0CKHOLE Wo -
hE ROOM.
| SLOSKHOLM,

CY EY £7 IY AY ALY < AY Ay 4£Ey £0 |

 
13-00000

DE Memo 76585 - Page 2

a. The letter was posted fram the Stockholm Ean post office,
whier is Isoemted in the central railway terminal in Stockholm.
ALL mail deposited in street mil bomes in this acea or in the post
office would be procesesd through this station.

e. The cameellation cachet an the envelope is identioal in
all respects (format, postmark, mmtber style amt lengta of killer
bars) to evemplere aveilerle in our office.

£. Tae postage is correct for Svedish interzal mail and the
postage stemp is of current issue.

&- 4 posathle irregularity is the time lsc betveen the internal

$
8
f
i
f
3
‘
a
i
§
§

the letter to the time of receipt is eight anys, toe time betuscn
the dete of posting ami the date of receipt is mc:
fais transit time of more then torres days for intre-city
irregular vhen compered with the average transit ime of

a:
c

"seat," past tanen), “ Boxiet” { but ost
“no was @py” (witout iotefinite article), "FBI, USA" (elthout éefieiee
ertiele), _ “wula"), ” Sueiish past
form), em “whole the world” (pure Bvedish ).
& Gg ticast detail is the meme: giver, “Ryo Lieng Yuan”.
“Ryo” 10 not ® ctendard im eny kocam Romanisstion syste used
for Chinese. “R" fe een im the new Chinese nations} eystes,

a nme ty waich a real Cuinese would identify nimacle,

5. In omeary, and based on the above informatios, it 1s concluted
that the letter wae traneniteed via norml Evedish postal ehammele. The
letter is probably a “crank letter", met likely uritten by a Suede,
using 6 Guedisn-seyboard typeuriter and Gywediah stetiosary.
104-10400-10199

 

MEMORABDUM WOR: Chief, wa/2

APERNTIOR: Mr. Charles P. Kitele--

BUBJECCT: Gechnies) Analysis of Letter amd Raveiope -
~ BB CASE $4351

REFERERCE: _ WE/2 Memo dated 13 December 1963

1. in recponse to referenced request, an Griginel typewritten
fzericean Exhassy

letter and envelope eidressed to tne
were cxmiced in ender to devernine the origin of the letter and’ the
mationslity ef thea weiter.

and

2. Ghe following conclusions vere draw concerning the letter

a. The typewriter in question is equipped with en obsolete

She
agen” (where the dots should have been placed over the

"Stremiv:
(@econd “a"). ‘Ghis might de either a simple oversight or an attempt

to conceal the writer's familiarity with tne correct spelling.

e. Tas of the letter is of the intermatiozal standerd
(ptm) sive “AL” whieh fe almost universally used in Eveden. The
iinen-textured stationery seems te be mther common in Sueden.
The tam smaller pieces of blank paper matca tae letter paper with
reepect to width, thickmess, color, textures ani joakethrough, and
were probably cut from enotaer easet of tae same type. The
matebos specimens of Swedish envelonss takea from BS/5-Postel.
Intell:gence files.

D
13-00000 _

BS Memo $6585 - Page 3

6 For further information concerning the typewriter end paper
emelyeee, amd the Svedich style of lemgusge usage, contact Mr. Jan |
Beck an =2009. For further informatics on the spelling of the
eatensitle writer's nome, you may comtact Nr. Gerald Worth on 22506.

_ALBIE BR. TRECIGLAS
Chief, fap/os

iL ~ Cape
Tan /oB/5-PI/RaRanks/x2303/ery
13-00000

 

ate

 

| CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL 1998 1 oc wes

MESORANDUM FOR: S/DB/5
ATLZNTION: Mr. Tom Campbell

SUBJECT: Technical Amalysis of Letter and Envelope

1. Attached is a letter mailed to the American Eobessy ic
Stockholm purportedly from an officer in the Chinese Commiumist
Embassy in Stockholm. Also included is the envelope and a slais
foléed sheet of papér which presum@oly was used to enfoic tae
letter witnin the envelope. Please perform a technical enziysis
of these attachments to determine whatever can be deterrinec
concerning the origin of the pazer, envelope, typewriter, anc
ink used. If you have any capacility for camparing this iewter
with other correspondemce originating with the Chinese Commmmist
Embassy in Stockholm, we would like your opinion on whether or
not the stetionery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type
normally used by. that Embassy. :

. 2. Because of the sensational pature of the contents of
the letter and the necessity for our checking out such aliega-
tions as quickly ani tmoroughly as possible, it is requested
that this technical emelysis be undertaken on a priority basis
ami that the undersigmed by notified by phone as soon as eny
conciusions are reached.

3. Please acknowledge the receipt of the attached ictter
and ensure that ite whereabouts, when in your custody, is 2
matter of record. We prefer that the letter and envelope Se
kept as intact as possible while undergoing technical anelysis.

\

 

t
