104-10162-10176

 

 

 

q
IDF 38636 4
22 Dacamer 1959 ’ i

uses the Catholic Church as a front out aleo uses Masons and Protestants.
Surject plans a union of all non-Comminists and non-3AT STA groups.

16. Following testing Sudject adcitted withholiing information
Pegarding SATISTA people in Miszi with whom he intemis to have contects.
Sudject desir:s to use these persons as a assures of considerable nweye
Subject also stated he would o¢ willin: to identify these cecple at a
later date. Sarject also reveaiea thut a person nased GIL bOROS
(WR/TED; is Ricardo's contact in Havang.

Nt

17. Sudject stated that the Rector of St. Stanislaus Hovitiate,
Father ASCARADES (N2/IRD), helred Subject wr.te the letter out Sudject
4nsisted that Father ASCARAD2 corrected the [orn ard -he content of the
eee Sb soctts mm, Sortens arated enat the letter is exarrerated
so that it would appeal oetter to te rans and Zile Cudan sat there is
no eta,geration of fact in the letter he Flans to puslish. |

   

 

13. Sudject adwitted also that he not only left Cuda because he
was anti-Comunist, he also left in order to hurry «im- his counter
revolution, Susject stated <iat surrocnded in Fanrantila oy Communists
he was prevented fron workin: towards ris -oal.

19. Sudsoct wag a ost intense person. visibly aitated by the
intervieving situation, Suoject naictained tha‘ he did not trust the
epparatas (polygraph) althozch be did trust the exariner. Sunject
insisted on two points; that if he'were foam! questionazle on the
polyarerh that he not be sent back to certain death in Cuba, and that
we investigate all of his clains from first hand sources in Cuna,

2. Sudject also seened concerned >ecause of his inability to
odtein a Mexican visa wich was refused hig 2y the consul in Havana
because Subject's passport did mot have a police staxsp. Subject
Clained that CASi20 has men everywhere in Miani ani Kexico as well.
Subject also, at every opportunity afforded hin, discussed his coming.
revolutionary plans an! hegyed far United States suprart for his :
movernents : *

21. Subject impressed ‘he exauine> as intellizent, sgzressive, |
energetic, and intonsely devoted, alasst fanatically, to his desire. -
for sverthrowing CASIRD anc the Comunists. Sioject is a very em>tional,
hich strung, nervous individcal out quite docile to suzgestion and;

_ handling if done with di:mity. Subject rave the impression of being ;

a good organiser and capable o* directing. Subject also az.eared to; -
be sensitive to implications of dishonesty or dishonsravle acts.

 

 

seerahaetia et Stary oo
104-10162-10176

 

reoF sess
22 Deceser 1959

 

ie

posed as priests. One of the Czpuchin priests took Swject to a foreign :
priest who put Suoject in contact with our station personcel., Suoject . : Bai”
waa kept by station personne: in a safe house for a month after which
Subject was exfiltrated on a ship controlled oy our station personnel,

12, Sudject stated that he has a aan in the Cuben G2 who reported

that faéil CASIRO wes on Subject's trail and wcatRadul had asked the
policé’to checs all ensassics for the wherearouts “Of Surject. Scrject's
i photograph was -iven to the police oy G-2. Surject stated that his .
: friend, Rooerto de VARINA, on the 17th of December had telephoned i
: ’  ¢hrea friends in Miani uno had asked for Sudject's whereabouts. shen
told by VARONUA that Su ject was in another cocntry, the three friends

‘ said that Pather O'fAzzz (5R/iRD) told then Susject. had seen in
: Miexi and was now in Wasnin:ton, D.C. Suoject stated, however, that
a no ona knows where hs is except de VARONA with whon Susject is going

; to cat off relatiorsnip. :

   

 

: 13. Subject stated that he has $500 left having given $500 to
VAROBA. Suoject stated that wien he left Cuoa Jose Antanio Posik
QR/TKD) had given bin $1500 in cash, Suvject stated that he was
the head of the Catholic Kevolatiouary Group and that FEMA vos the
treasurer. Sudject stated that the rroup's money came froa ich
Cubans who supplied the +roup with mosey. Surject thought that the
‘grows had avout $10,000 in cash at present for just rach emergencies

' es Subject's necessity toe escare ana that wicn money Was avaiigsie
for the croup when it begins its revolutiona~y activities in the \
future. Suvject estiaated that three persons in Cuda alone contri- :
buted about $200,000 ami it does not include soney fron persons ‘
exiled from Cuda cor the aid of a “comtry* which Suoject did not f
nama. Suoject desires from the Unitei States support in training
instructors to train his men in coabat technics end propaganda
material, Susject stated he felt he coald got aras and moucy from
other sources. :

 

  

touch with the editor of Universal Graphics (nave unknown) who vould

_ help Susject publish his letter most effectively. Saojec’ stated :

that the Spanish sazassy gave hia this direction.. Surject stated a

ro. also that when he pets to Mexico he will contact Ricardo LORLB i i
: \ OR/TaD), a former commandant of CASRO's. Saoject also plans to 4 i

{5° to Costa Rica for help and plans to contact foraer SAMISTA |

{

i

1

{

Yh. Subject stated that he was told to go to Kexico ami get in i
: 4

|

i

 

i ipeople for help. —

 

15. Subject also stated that he has a plan to attack CASTRO
H militarily and that his first attompt will 2¢ to rescue MAM fron
af prison, Surject stated that he had a national organisation which

 
104-10162-10176

 

 

sisae wed caee

ED¢ 38636 . 4

22 Decemer 1959

6» Subject stated tha. et the tine of the Reetin: he was the
only second chief in a°l the 25 zones of. “NRA. However, one Captain
1 ZESAE Y Ci /iRD) is now a second chief of one of the zones,

Te Sudject stated that durin- the to day meetin: he spake
two or three tines durin: wacch he asked cAs7A) how ach land each
farner could oxen, durin: wiler he told Clb 2) eaterpiilar tractors
were cest, and nace a comeat aosut the estaslishnent of psoplsst
stores in the countryside. Sadject stated tha: VALWJ0 answored
Ch. 3's questions aout the 2008 althsc-a ¥AL1J9 occasionally
Conmited with Scoject avait an ansvere Sudject stated that he
Space at the ond o° the second dsy vith CA: iB) Nery oriefly in the
company. of five ar six others.

Te Surgse owatud bid be ab ie a .cisnd of téoinJ'g nor even
amore than the most casual of acqinintences.

Se Sudject stated that after tho néeting he rct-oned to sone

22 eni continuct his work, Surjcet stated that around this time he
cerzan to strea-thea hie Corwndes Ruralc3 and plan a revolutionery

% acainst CAs"2), Upon the arrest of Boers '14205 GE/TRD), the
Corsmiist Party in Manganilla be-an to Say that Subject would be
arrested nexte fAlid) at this tine atationed to Gorunists to work
in nie office oni on 2 Noremer 1953 YALL Jo orderca Sudject to
dissolve bis Camarios Rursles. Suojoct -eve $20 apiece of his own
moacy to the Cowmodes Kurales and told ‘nea to co to Havana and
ozs. orders. Suvjoct toli vals) his mother wae sick aad wanted
fe soo her in Comiuye Sis te-eed hia io leave Cosa Since she felt

he world de arrested shortly Like 1405,

10. Surfect s-ated thet while he was mot in any conspiracy with -
MATOS he was a close {rien and had asked hie three times to join
his revolutionery group withoct assent vy MATOS, .

VM. Subdjeet thea wont to Havana whore he spoke clantestinely
With the Comanios Rurales and his university friends. Zhe first

‘plan vas +0 seek political asylaa toxether at the sazs tine at an

embassy and thea to -o abroad fra there. However, after gpsaiciny
with the Spants® aspassator Sedject decidad that he could not obtain |
Safs conduct since he was a nember of the erny and was not ecli-ible

in Manzanilla had roported him as a dafectar, Sudject called VAL!GJ9
and esxed for a leave extonsion since his nother was still ill, Ton
Susject took refuge with four Srionds in a Josuit house in Ste
Steniglaug Novitlates With Surject ums Roberto de VAIXIA (an/uD) -
who uss Sd joct's chief of the Comanios Kurales, Ffroa the Jesuit
Novitlate they wont clandestinely to a Capuchin cinurch where they

See wa

oye

. for the safe cuxdket. A Spectah -hip was -tree weeks late and offered |
mo qeicé axit frase Cuba. when word reached Suarj-ct that the Comentsts |

 
104-10162-10176

 

IRD# 38636 : :
22 Decemer 1959 és a

Sierra Maestra Mountains. When LORNT: returned, he advised Sooject
to join CASO sa ing that 1t was obvious CAS 40's froup was inSiltrated
with Comunists but it did not se-m that CAS. himself was Conmunist.
Therefore it wouli be wise for anti-Comunists Like Suoject anit his
group to join Cas m0 to counteract the influence of the Coarmnists.
Accordingly Suoject went into the mountains in October 1958 where he
was accepted oy CASINO. Suoject served as a judge advocate receral's
aide and engaced in three oattles, After the fi hting was over and
the revolution was successful, many of the Communists stayed in the
oontains to organize the farmers. loving this Sudject requested to
in the nountains as an orvanizer of the farmers in order to
at the Coanist influence on tie farmers, Sudject here orzenized
Commandos Ruralos, a Catholic Action Group, . fanzanilla vas «he
center of the Comandos Rurales worke Tie groups were quite sucessful
and stirred up consideradle opposition from the Commnists, For example
on Hay Day last May the Mayor of Manzanilla asked Subject to bring
formers te the Mog Daw Dawnda, Subdant braneht five to aly thonsand
Comsandos Rurales with bamers of anti-Co-mmis+ slovans resulsi.g in
a cable to Raoul CASTRO accusing Suojcct of revisionism. Consequently
the chief of the Cowmmist Party of neishboring Hafo came to
Manzanilla to work with the ¢armers and to oppose Surject's croupse
Suoject stated that there are 110 Cativlic Action Groups ranzing from
60 to 200 persona per croup all of uhoa Sudject claixs are loyal to
hia and anti-Coomunists. Suoject clains to oe a chief of the Catholic
Action Revolutionary Group with many clandestine activities and
persemel i.volvad. Subject became a memper of the group in 149.

  
 
  
 

  

3. after the fighting of the revolution wes over, Suoject >ezan
to work in ISRA. Suvject stated that the Agrarian Reform Act was to
be sizned publicly ia the olaza in Hansanilla in the mountains. Sub-
ject's chief, General Jorge MAKIN (UR/IRD), was disenchanted with the”
Communists in CA> RJ's aray and was this retired. At the poolic
Signing of the A-rarian Reforn Act, therefore, Subject was present
with his Cowaandos Rurales instead of MARIN. CASTRO inspected te
Comandos Rurales and asxed to speax with Sudjcct as their comander.
“Subject recalled this ha;pened in dime or July of this year. Alter
a short tale, CASINO invited Subject to Havana to speak more spout
the Comuandos Rurales whch he Gid efght daya later. At this nceting
CASINO asked Suoject if he would lixe a “position in INRA. Sudsject
_ agreed, It must oe recalled that at this time Scbject thoucht Fidel
CAST.2 néeded the help of non-Cosmunist rebels to firht azainst the i
Corsnunists. Subject svated that he found out his error later. Because
: Subject wanted to prescrve the freodos of the ‘armers and to xeep down
t ths Communists influence, he accepted CASRO's offer and explained to .
: CASTRO what his plans were for establishing a cooperative in whioh the ;
farver vould own Lis own land, Sudjoct stated that CASTRO asced him.
how mach money he neodei to begin ani when Sudject said $60,000, CASTRO.

 

BowwecemeuasS. 6
104-10162-10176

 

 

 

Te 38935
22 Decemer 1759

gave hin a check for tha: gaoant. Surject stated that he spent the
monsy for seed and farm aninaise Cuos was divided into six provinces
and 25 zones were carved out of these ;ro- inces. wud) ( fll ame
given py Sudject out forzottca by the exauiner) at first was mais
chief o° rone 22 and Surjcct served as his aide. Two months later
VALLEJO (Uk/i D) sceame chief of Iriente province and susject vecame
actual chief of zone 22 agi vas so corsicered ay everyone. Hogaver”
4m the record suzject was stili the aide to Valtods who noainally
held two titles, chief of orienta provices and chief of zone 22.
Subject velicved the reasca for this was “hat Pidel did not want
Suaject to de listed as actual chief of sone 22 decacse Suoject bad
a history of anti-Comnuni=: ami in goce 2Z where Communists were
strong this xicjht cause unrest. Susject recalled that he was mace
aide to VALIAd) in septemer. Iniovensen FALied) told Suojoct that”
ere bea tad e menting. vA) nad attended the first meeting and
hat reparted to Sadject some OF tne bin 5b vavins bdo ould VS
regarding have campaigns aza:ust the United states and Communist
infiltration. Susject, on sce oF these occasions, asked VALLJS
when the crops world 2¢ divided among the farmers since they vere
anging apout vils and YALLio 3 told Susject to delay the request of
the farmers in tus regard. ValuJO told Subject he had asxed
CAST.2 to prancte Susject to captain sad althouzh Civ Mm) seemed ~
fevaranly disposed nothing happened as a result.

be In the alddle of Octooer when the aster’ mesting of TARA
was beld VALU took Surject along. Suoject recslied that the
meeting was tvo days. ia len:th, on a Saturday ani Sunday to the 2st
of his recollection. Suoject ig not sure 0° the dates out relieves
{t.xas sowevnere in the c-dcle of the nowt. Susject cumers.ed al
of the people who were present, and the persons he Listed were the
game as those he had written down earlier for the stations sarject
recalled that at the meeting there were three Chilean Communists
whose names ha does not nae Susject recalled speaxin; to one of
them casually out could not even recall a first sate

5. Sudject recalled also that a sewspaper photocrapher from a
mazarine pudlished in Cua (*aAgricultare® he beliores is the nans)
took a photocraph of Suoject, VAuad0, and soveral other zono chiefs
of Orkento province. Suvject staced that the photocraphor took the
nenes of the persons photo:raphed and indicated tat the photograph
would ve published in this =a,azine. ourject stated that newspapers
fally covered the moetin; and tre names of all the persons present
“(nelading nio own were Listed and are part of the puslic recorde
Busject estinsted that avout ona hunired persona were present at the
meeting. Susject also siated that no newspaper aon were allowed into
the meoting except during 6 recesa oa tho second afternoon when a
press releaso was civen to a reporter froa the Revolucion. After
the recess the. kevolucica reporter was disnissea api tho business

resused. : S Fe Ho

en

 

DAeDiaurennenttinnigee et
104-10162-10176

 

ms, =

TED# 33636 :
22 Lecesver 1959

kh. Durin: the conferecoo tho day defore it bad deen a reed to
restrict the polrcrwh issees to the followincs .

‘

a. To astadlich Sanject's bons flies,

be To establish that Saject actually was presest ata
meatin: in which proof of C5 .'s Comemmst intentions
were ooteintd.

Ce. That the letter to be pablished 57 Subject was
menaine and an accurate pictere of the weetine and
the purpose af wich was not a provocation to
emarrass tho United States.

@, That Saseet waa not an erect af CASTEDs vbose
mission was to uncorer clandssiins assets of the
Vat tot Stetaq,

BE RESULTS WF _ DAT AG

The following questians and their nodifications ware asked
Luajecte

wl. is your baptiswl nave, ?

ot
W0la. fave you ever used any other nane vesises[Tgnacio]
in clandestine work? Ansyerz Woe

of
102. Were you porn on [January 27] Answers: Yes

10
103. Kore you born iforoa, Comazuey) Cubat

10h. ere you a member of Agrupecian Catolica Univers: tario?
- Answers Yose

105. were you a sember of the revolution since October -

: 1ssS? Answer: Yese 0%

16. “Were you the(eceood chief of sone 22| on paper?
Arowert Yas og

Sa. DLE on consider you to be [first eAtef of
sone 227 j Aner: fete

207. Were you a close scquaintance of CAS RO's?
Anewers Soe

  

cist emney oe

S/o)

 

 
104-10162-10176

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
, Records Collection Act of 1992
* (44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53295 6/15/17

 

0 3 Chief, Security Support Division Datet 22 Decemer 1959
P

ATE 8 Philip TOMY, Wi

PROX oo: Interrocation Research Division

SUsSECTs 8.7. ¥ 220838 TRF: 32536

_ OORTTPYTNG DATA

Sudject of this report is a single twenty-nine-year-old Cuban
defector from Fidel C457EO's revolutionary orzanization. Swject's
tras name is First Lieatenant « Suoject was
porn 29 January 1:32 in Moron, Cana:uey, Cuoa. in November 1759 Sub-
ject becuse dizefected with CASik0's roverment ami went into hiding ,
Eventcaliy through a clandestine U.S. controlled orerator in
Sy viect had

  

filtrated to the United States. The plan was to send Subject to
Mexico where his letter would 90 pudlished so that the United States
could not be held respomsiole for the action, It was planed to use
Subject in this one FP? effort without any other exploynent of Subject.

PROCEDURE

1. Philip meet] aM, contacted the exactiner throush IRD liatson.
& conf was arrenzed on 17 Decesber between the exatiner, TOOMET,
Chief /iky, Chiel, Covert Operations/.eD, ani a representative of SoD/B.
Durins ¢hia ennterence it was established that the polyeraph intervice
of Sadject rust oe accom lished by 15 Decesber since Subject was to
leave for Fexica sy the 18th or at the latest 17th of Dececoer. Sub=
ject had just cane out of hiding on the 16th of December and speed
as necessary to prevent censecting the United States with Susject's
case, The Office of Seewity had no information in its files on
Sudject and wi had only sparse inforuation contained most] in caoles.
Swyject reportecls spoke ‘only Spanish and an interpreter was ostained. ~
As it developai, nowever, Saject's Enslish was 720d enough for the .
interview with an occasicnal reference to the interpreter.

2. The exaniner anc the interpreter arran-ed passaze to Mian
where Subject ves located and arrived there the evening of 17 Decerber.
‘No coatact with Suoject was: possiole until the a’ternoon of 13 Decemer.
Subject was interro-ated ami poly xaphed on 13 Secemer fron 1330 to
14,30 at which tine en intcraission was necessary for Suvject io in-
quire avout his Mexican visa, Interviewin: was resumed at 1530 and
ended at 1800 for dinner. The interview was recommenced at 2030 and

was completed at 2230. : :

3. Tt was necessary to desrief Subject since there vas Little
or oo information avsileole. .

—SEGRET

 

Pe tte

ETURNTO CIA
here nd Use Caly
Do Not Reproduce

‘Qe

“
104-10162-10176 .: a \

 

g

%

es.
earner

108. Are you hiding anything from us of peril to . , .
the United States? Answers Ko. ;

GL, Did: anyore siestdas {Pattee “incureda} (R/T)
, help you write the letter? Answers lio.

202. Did DRA have a meeting in the middle of October?

answers Yes. 03
- 204. Were you presest at the meeting? Answers [tes.]
20ha. ers you at the second meeting of INRA?

Answers ve]

205. Does the lztter genarally report what occurred
at the mecting? Answers Yes.

205a. Is everything contained in the letter the truth?
Ansvers Yes.

Ol. Did CASTRO know whea you left Cuba? Answers Ho.
302. Did CASTZO zive you any help to leave Cuba?

Anssert Ho.
3 . O35. dre you te contact anyone fn the United States
* § . or Mexico for CASTRO? Answers Ho.

30k. Are you on a secret mission for C.STRO?
Answert Ho.

305. Is the letter tgned to ebarrass the United
States? Answert Ho.

306. Have you left CASTRO for some other reason
besides continuing your ficht against Cocexanis?
Answer! Ho.

3. Did you eave Guba decanse of any Kind of trouble? :
Answert No. i

a oo During the pelvergh toting strong pol sap evidence was obttond
i to support Sudject's contentions of fact panel :

‘ 1. Swiject's bona fides
2. eck Si tail a meek artes ahs alia of iiotober.

Aiteibine alent anm entice

3. That Subject was present at the meeting.

 

o
Heat a tte te

a epi Aa ngesbe

 
104-10162-10176

 

vepeeeet

 

TRDF 38636
22 Deceaber 1959

3
:
?
i
i

 

hh. That Subject wrote the content of the letter himself
and that it is  enerally accurate in reportin the
DA meeting.

S. That Subject is sot an acent of CASMOts but, rather,
he is a pona fide defector.

The examiner believes that Suoject waa truthful in the above
matters. .

OPERATIONAL, DIFORMATION

1. The following inforaation was cotained froa Suoject doth
during pro=polyrraph and post-polysraph discussions. It represents
the devriefing of Sire ¥ ich was necessary in order t> contact
intebingene poy woes mr. Fnsect cave nis place and date. of
birth tho saxe as conial ad in his record. In disciseins 45 cara
Life, Subject related thz: his father had emigrated to Cuba froa
Spain when he was 15 years of age. Sw ject!s father cana froa the
nerthern part af Spain frou a place calied Manzanera. Sud ject
stated what his mother and “ather are now residiny in Camazuey,
mentioned that hie father had favored tne Spanish Reublic wnea the
revolutionary difficalt.2s occurred in Spain. 43 4 yesulz Sudject
stated that his /acher joined the Carunist Party for a period of
six or seven years. The Party att. ucted his father vecause he want~
ed to help the Spanish Repsolic and was active 1n that part of the
Party wnich aided the Soanish Republicans. Arocad 1939 the Party
wanted to send Sudject's father to Russa for “raining and also wanted
nin to infers on his friends. Swject stated that his father refused
te ect as an infornant ard vas then puolicly throw out of ie Party.
Subject related tha: this was puolicly recorded in the Connuntst
nevapaper Hay. Susject related how his father then vocane violently
anti-Comunist and raised Subject with this prejudices

   

 

  
 

 

 

2, Subject mentioned that his father has twenty caballeros of
lend which ha Selicves will now o« confiscated decause of his de-
fection. Subject was an saly child and educated in the local public

the influence of Fatner Marine Peres FURAN (KR/RD),5.J., ond in :
199 entered the Tniversity of Havana to satady nedicine. S.adject was
president of the Catholic Action Groups and when CASTRO began his
revolutionary activities, Sup ject veronge! to another revolutionary
group plotting against SATISTA. Thouch CAS O's zroup continued its F
activities while other -roups were siow to act, Sudject still did not ;
join CAs TRO's group since there wero apparently 80 many Communists in

it. However, & close friend of Suoject's, Padre aAvnando LELATS ; :
(uR/LED), S.J, went to visit Pidel CASIR) who wes hiding in the : od

 

 

 

 
