 

 

 

Ee

Commmication is primarily te h LYONION-13 with LIONION-2 cely in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arrenged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls
from LIONION-1 go through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the
LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment, which would appear to be a LIONTON-1
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIOT technician,

Hugh fT. FRANCOLTE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week. The Case Officer,
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 kmows
the true name of the Case Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered by Mexican
authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed
to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JMWAVE
area on.a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income. This would probably hold up unless they were caugnt in flagrante -

_With the KURIO? automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such

refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization.
In any event, LIONION-1 has a closé relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protection,
enabled hin to weather the tax investigation and can be used by him to overcome any

. future difficulties with Mexican authorities.

Under Mexican law, the principal (photographic) activity of the ‘project ‘is
not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not of
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually. possible to stave off.
investigation or house search for a period of time sufficient to remove compromis-~-~

ing material from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completely ;

in one evening and could again be gleaned, probably in less tame, if circumstances
should warvasrt.

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.
On one cecesion AMKNOB-1, a JMWAVE asset, was shown a nearby building (not the
LIONION bese) by a PBRUMEN Embassy | ‘officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo
base.

LIONION-1 is known by sight to some PBRUMEN Embassy staff personnel who have
ooserved him in the neighborhood. ‘Presumably they believe he is a Mexican. ‘To
avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at. the
PSRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURIOT in separate
correspondence to prepare new Passports for both LIONION agents so that they .may
travel outside Mexico. re Vet g _ Son

 

 

Secu sy measures employed in this‘ operation are-designed to-make It virtually :

impossible for any. opposition service to link ELONEON Personnel with the Station.

Coordination. coorai: nation’ with other PBPRIME elements ‘or: ‘the | Mexic can government

s not necessary at this time and none is envisaged...

  

 

 

 

|
I
A
 

 

 

   

 

G. Costs . Fae total annual cost of Project LIONION is $10, 78, distributed |

as own below: :
FY 65 FY 66 ° Yotal
LIONICHN-1 salary , So . 4
13 months @ $320 $1g20 $22h0 $4160 . ae

LIONION ~-2 marett : :
13 months @ $150 ; 990 1050 1950 |

Real estate rentals:

LICEISN Basehouse 690 600 1209
26k 25h, 523
h houses , 150 150 300

   

1270 1170 23ho
aphic film, vaper, a a oe ge
foals, and miscellaneous) : ‘yee

   

Salsries for LIONION-1 end 2 inelude the ‘customary year end : : .
bonus of one wonth's salery. LIONION-1's sdary was raised from $200 to | _
$320 monthiy itn 1964 to compensate in part for his renunciation of a
sales position in order that he might devote his full time to the LIONION

 

 

operation. LIOMION-2's salary has remained at $150 per month since her
recruitment in 161. to salary changes are contemplated during the
project 3

 

      

 

 
 

-
3 wy
‘
weg oe — -
z
; “ non Kus ,
at ve

 

i
|
i
i
i

CRYPIONYM ___LIONTON FIELD CASE OFFICER, runner Andi

Aamo F. BARKER

“os SRAPTON Mexico City EPS CHTER OF oo wn Ale lai

oe _ Willara CG.” CURTIS

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval.

 

   

 

   
104-10054-10008

 

 

es ’ . = “ai ASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION
: DISPATCH ; sonia [se ror woe
Chief, WH Division | x | NO INDEXING REQUIRED
SS — So =
CAN JUDGE INDEXING \
Chief of Station, Mexico City {

   

 
 
 
 

    

_ACTION REQUIRED « REFERENCES - P=
Reference: HMMW-13207, 14 December 1964

1. Attached by split transmission is an outline for Project LIONION : |
covering the services of the two agents heretofore known as LIFEUD-22
(201-288248) and LIFEUD-23 (201-305604). This project was anticipated in |
paragraph hy pege 9 of the LIRANCH project outline trensmitted by Referience, Oo “

2. To avoid re-typing at Headquarters the Station has taken the liberty
of provisionally assigning cryptonyms LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 to these agents.
Please advise if this is correct.

Oo - - nee E (aaah)

. Willard ¢. CUREIS _

 

     
 

“fo

 

Attachment :
_ Project, Outline, left side h/w
Froject Outline, right side usc .

 

‘Distribution: :
3 C/TED w/att

      

       

es a
0325
i, geo —SOrEI2f/ :

Pa)

  
   
   

ISS REFERENCE TO. DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

AMMA-25110
CLASSIFICATION

Sache

6 January 1925 i
HQS FILE NUMBER — fF i

| 50-6-122/1

 

eee

 
 

A.

B.

 

 

PROJECT LIONTOW

Identification. This is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance
operation against the PBRUMEN Bnbassy in Mexico City.

Objectives. The operation is designed to (1) furnish photographie coverage
during daylight hours of the entrances of the target installation, (2)
dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the
target, end (3) keep in readiness'a listening post for the monitoring and
recording of eventual technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PRRUMEN Embassy ‘compound (including |
Consulate} in Mexico City. ‘The above-listed objectives are accomplished by
two trained, full-time survedllance agents who live across the street from
the target. |

The project is in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1, of the
current Related Mission Directive; for Mexico. :

; Background . This project, herewith presented for approval for the first time, |
' does not ‘represent a new operation. LIONION activity has been going on _Bince, a

1962 and costs have heretofore been charged, to PBRUMEN FI. funds. ‘The . .o
operation produces photographs of persons associated with’ the PBRUMEN Rabassy,
both staff and visitors. These yo! notographs are normally reviewed for identi-
fications by the PBRUMEN section at the Station, then shown separately to

and LIAMIL-7 who are
They are subsequently | forwarded to the section o. SA where they are shown
to PERUMEN intelligence defectors nas 1, and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whon
they are routinely shown, crane has to date made the largest nunber of

 

identifications. The photos have|proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of 2 new Eubassy staff member his photograph is in the hands of the
Station, In addition to the identification of staff and visitors, the photos
(accompanied by a log kept by the! LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action
(arrivals end departures) and details of personal associations (who associates

with whom) which are of great. value to the Station in mounting operations against |

the target.
i
In eddition to photography, EIONEON-1 ana LIONION-2 are. often called 1 upon
to do visual surveillance of the target installation and LIONION-1l is essential —
to the dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance team against individuals.
associated with the target. Because? of the presence of: police patrol ears in
the vicinity, the Station's mobile surveillance assets’ cannot come close to: ta
target, hence the need. for. LIONEON-1 Me. dispatching Services « a =

 

 

The presence of LIONION-1 and LIONZON-2 also insures continued oecupanc sy of
a valued piece of real estate which will be used as a listening post when the
Station sucteeds in installing additional technical surveillance devices in the
target in the form of concealed radio transmitters.

 

    
 

De

"be monotonous work. ‘Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort of work, .

' began the present photographic surveillance operation.

SERET)KAPOK

~2-

Qverational Assets (Personnel). |

LIONZON-1 is a young PHRUMEN lawyer in exile. He left PERUMEN in 1960,
plaming to continue on via Mexico to the United States where he resided in.
his early years. His two brothers are American citizens, one a desk officer
in the Department of Commerce in Washington, the other a police official in;
Tampa, Florida. While in Mexico LIONION-1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to
perform PERUMEN operational support services for the Station and, once having
a taste of clandestine activity, decided to remain in Mexico. LIONION-2, Cc |
was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2, as a basehouse occupant and
operator in the LIFEAT/LIERODE technical operation aimed at the PERUMEN :
Embassy. At this same time LIONION-1 also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and
the two worked together as a team. In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked
together in processing the take of the LIFEAT/LIERODE/MKITRAP installation, now
known es LICMEN. At this time their cryptonyms were changed from LILILY-1 and
2 to LirsdbD-22 and 25, respectively. In the latter part of 1962 the two agents

 

LIONTON-1 wes granted an OA on 18 May 1962 by HMMN-10664. He was
LCFLUITERED on 8 October 1963, HMMW-12064.. ,

LIONION-2 was granted an OA on 16 May 1962 by HMMW-10660. ©

; _LIONION-1 is the mainstay of ‘the operation. “LIONTON-@ acts as his assistant — :
and fill-in at such times as he is absent from the observation post. Both serve

principally as observers and photographers. LIONION-1 also acts as a dispatcher.
‘for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team from which he is compartmented. Dispatching —
is done by radio using pre-arranged innocuous code terminology; the team does not
imow LIONION~-L or his precise location. LIONION-1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Embassy gate through final printing, cropping.
and mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is processed through the
negative development stage. ' : .

Control is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of .
the agents, that as PERUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might
be- brought uyon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out .
of line. Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and violent aversion |
to, and determination to bring about the downfall of, the AMTHUG regime. An
additional notivating factor is that both agents actually enjoy what for many would

Both agents realize that they are working for PBPRIME intelligence; LIONION-1

. appears to be aware that he is working for KUBARK... The cover utilized by LIONTON-2

is that of . LIONTON-1 passes as a who. can afford
to dabble without notable) success because of Tamily landholdings in’
Tampa, Florida (inherited from nis deceased Father), which enable him to live as”!
a "rentista,"” one-who lives on income from sources other than gainful employment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican government. In October 196%
this cover successfully withstood intensive investigation by Mexican authorities
checking on versons of questicnable status for tax collection purposes. ‘The

Station plens to bolster the Jeover with supporting documents froma a
Cc in New York City; these will be requested in separate correspondence.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
