74-0000

 

 

 

    
 
  

 

=e . July 8, 1954.

5 .

i :
t ~. Byernics :

; ok w  . When this pattent was'12 yeara old, tho neurolorlenL aoavad that he
oy od been having for years, Seager avert. ett ANE eae eng 2S sabe
AR sin = * te oe es

3 ae BQQES
veh =

         
  

 

psychological. con:

‘We notice the following:

flicte of the paticnt at
@) . Tho ceparation from-hla parents. it is obvious that the ©

. Gubdject hac. otill strong embivaient foclings toward his. -

-/ parents and eapectall ward his mother. “He hates her . .

. ", oVor=protectivoness. and ‘dominocring attitudes, but at the :

. Gamo timo, he fecls gad about.the separation from his fanilye

 

b) Tho idea of boing Limited’ in Life beacause of his cpllopsy.

. This problem was vory doeply falt by the patient since he

*, was a child, becauso at that timo hia mother used to restrain
. hin fro having a normal boy's Life duo to tha Gelztures, He’
DN. was considérod as a boy with:a vory bad temper and "seen

‘ nl - , Sometines by hie neichbors ag some cort of a cevil", This

‘>. . . fleane that’ the patient doveloped very stronm arrressive tone
: _ Gencles as a reaction to this frustration. At present the
patient fools that thare are many goals in life that he wilh
_ haver be ablo to roach because of hia discase, For instance,
.. Concerning a profession and a cuperior education, . .

on
'

! -, ° @) The patient has had some fatluraes in. love which wore very :
t soos . Yrustrating for hime He haa never been formally engased and -
t' =... Whon he approaches a girl he always has 4n mind tha idea thas

i . .- . he cannot feel wall with a woman that would pity him for his ©

) ; . disease, oe oo a . ; ; . “4

 
 

0228-1042]

 

Gn:

 

‘

  

 

on © on
: . Vocational Rehabilitation

State of Florida |
July 8, 1964

Tage

ESYCHOLS Ica L_EVA UAT IO’ :

 

“This Subject has’ beon seon “three ‘times at tas Paycholosieal Service
Center. On April 9, 1954, wa had a lons interview vith hia in which
whe explained the history of ‘his soizures, Oa Juno Ll, 1994, he
received the TAT and a Free.Association Test, ucing a List of words
that was especially prepared for him, Cn that dato, he promised

‘to coma back to bring a List that he had maé¢e of all his soizures
aince September 1942 up to the present time, with an indication of
the emotional problema that he had en the days he was cick. This

list was brougat, by him, to our office on June 30, 1964. -

. Reason for Conqultation . ee

To try to. determine 4£ thore wore ony poychological factors influe
encing this Subdject's epiloptic seiziros. .

: Resules of aysholor teal Invectiratton

In a.c¢age such aa this, {t. 40 obvious that organic factors are tho
main determinant of the patientts disare, but from the interview. Y
and tho tests, wo received the impression that the patient's onotion=:—
al state has often played a ccrtain role in trizzering his eplloptic
saizures. Peychotherapeutic treatment that would erable this. paw. -;
tient to gain better control of hte emotions would obviously: be highs
ly beneficial for hin.

ot : BS
. | dntallicence

This subject was not formally tested in order to datermine his L.Qe,
buc from his conversation and from his responses to the personality
tests, it is quite clear that he 4s a man endsved with a. superior
intelligence, althoush somo impairment has ncecegsarily resulted bee
cause of his frequeat epileptic seizures, and, recently, becauee of

'his brain surgerye Ho was not tested for intellinence becsuso ir vas

“+not feasible to do co sinco his operation had been done just a few
weeks ago and the posaibility of some transient effects of the sure
gical procedure might athll influence any results. However, from a
strictly eclinical viewpoint, when comparing tho cubject'a reaction
boforo and after the operation, the amount of impairment produced

« by tho operation does not scem to bo really considorable, and, on the*
other hand, there is a remarkable decrease in his anxietye

i
74-0000

 

 

  
     
   
    

ng

oJ _ duly 6, 1964.

 

 

 

6). For several monthe the patlent hoch ad a comzon-Law wifo, here

din Miazal, but it sacma that ha haa never been doeply tn love
with her. Le 40 rathor a mittar of sex and compantonshipe
HNovertholasa, ho often arzude with her because cho is a come
noering person, who “wants to bo fh mothor: for him". Some of
tho patient's recont epileptic solzures took placa after an
arguement with here z : . -

Tho political situation in Cuba is another source of cuffere
ing for the patiant, ac it io for all Cuban exilos. It i¢,
however, important. to nota that the patient’s reactions to
Batista and Castro's dictatorchios wera not only the rosule
of hio patriotic feelings, but also tho exprossion of his,
dooply rooted aggresaivoneta against all forms of unjust

ox unreasonable authoritarian -bohavlore .

‘Joao I. Lacaga, PheDe
. Clinieal Peychologist
PSYOHOLOGLCAL SERVICE CENTER

 

i

cy
