 

 

documents.

3.° Mer, Devine would ike to havo ua provide him with some
_ more epecial instructions than he presontly hae concerning the pro= -
cedures for the recovery of the documents; also, if we can short
circuit thie process of referral of cases to tho State Department in

SECRE

someone in State has contacted Carlos Piad on the Revolutionary
Council, and has been assured that the circular which had been
going around to Cubans will be stopped and Piad will apparently act
a8 the Council's point of coordination for the recovary of said

Washington in any way, he would appreciate ft,

4,
requested.

 

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addresvee
1 ~ C/WH/4/Support
2+ C/PA-Prop

lige {22 June 1961)

 

 

Comments and oupgeations from WH/4/Socurity are

DC/whH/4

 

 
04-10209-40087

 

. SECRET

22 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4/Socurity
VIA : Chief, WH/4/Support

SUBJECT , : Pase:orts of Cubans

1 Mr, Devine, of the State Department, called on 22 June
and referred to previous diacusaiona with members of WH Division
and of WH/4 concerning Miro Cardona's request for some 400 paga~
ports of Cubans a8 well ae other personal documents. It was
recallod that Miro Cardona and Tony Varona, among othera in the
Council, had raised this question in late April and early May with
Mr. Goodwin and later with Morales Carrion, At that time ¢ was
understood that these pagsports and documenta were collected from
volunteers for the invasion forces in Florida ans held possibly by
the FRO er ite. "associates" under an agreement that eaid passports
and documents would be turned over to no one other than the person
Concerned or his heirs. It was ‘also recalled by Mr. Devine that the
answer to the request of the Council for these documanta was that
any individual who wanted his documenta should go to the entity to
which he gave it and make application,. It was alao paesed to the
Council that the passports were in the Florida area in custody and
were immediately available to the individual or his heirs, Fora
time thie seemed to suffice or, at any rate, the inquiries seemed to

atop.

@. Apparently with Miro Cardona's knowledge a few dayo ago
a circular was prepared by some Cuban organization and sent to
all people in the Cuban community in Miami who might be interested
in documents or passports, stating that anyone wanting to recover
said documents should apply to Mr. Hurowitz on the Cuban desk In
the Department of State. Mr. Hurowita received In the last day ov
two some thirty letters requesting docuinenta of one Individual or
another and eventually decided to acknowledge them with a form
letter, stating that no responsibility for sald documents rested with

_the Rate Department. However, the Stata Department would do

what it could to assist in the locating of said documents, Meanwhile

SECLET

 

 
