14-00000 es

re SREPRODUCTIO
PRON (TED

N

  

ra

  

 

D. should be examined togethar with .
ayailabia reports so that we may . i

(1) clarify our ovn objectives and wishes with
respect to all the A3ILASH sroup (and chia incloces
AMVHIP); .

{2) sort out wnich peoples, if any, are worth our
tims in the future;

(3) take aporovriate neaasures, anciuding iater-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and ot
then, when necessary, terminate thosa who are De

working for us but are not worthwhile; .

 

{4) tighten up our own onerational and s security
procedures in connection with the AMLASa group.

3. Prelininary Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary

 

analysis of tas AM comptes, made in reh 1965 when I waa
preparing for travel to jin connection with the| GUHOPS-1

er

case: --.There is no convincing cvidence that the ereue is
working cither for or against the regine of i
Reports on their contacts with us and their ¢ sions among . i
themselves are at variance. In 1962 ¥:dsi CASTE » veportedte

knowlny that they were plotting against him, talked i _ AMLASH-1
(and seven members of his group to enlist their against

 

 

,
0

  

Anibal SSCALANTE Dellunde and the communists in Possibly
they axe playing both cnds against the middle. xtainly
nave been and are in contact with the two ends following

 

conmeats are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

S. The AMLASH conspiracy ~ Ag detailed a
iN 28634) on 6 April 1965, : ~2 reporting on a Ree ting i
the AMLASH group, including AMNHIS-2 mentioned the ®olloving “y
ficant points: ; . :

     
  

zed for "fx
ping and fo eo z ardiziag ne

  
   
    

(1) KUBARK wa
veurs” without hel

 

{2} the group was to be orepared fe
responsidls Af the operation fails amd -b
ing scandal vould rake

    

{3 AMLASU-3 w
AS established br code $

reported ot___| 5

Eilngs with

    

 

REPRODUCTION © cacenas oer
PROUD ag 5 ttt

COPY Noe met

 
104-10088-10137

 

ins

 

SUBJECT

1.

are dalicate ond could have unfavora

~ BR EBRONETIO

PROAIGN ED
Ct (eet tin Jy

 

MORANDUM FOR: Chie?, WHD for Cuba

oe

Bapinosa Allegations

Sensitivity: Regardless of accuracy, they

A. present a problem becausa of their haying been
prasented to other governmank agenelas;

8. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,
Dla reosreussiong -
if vepsated to nevsnen by the complainant or his
associates (shose independent, previous threats were
of greater potential embarrassment);

C. affect the reputations and the security of our
personnel at Madrid and Paris.

Action: In view of tha foregoing, the allegations

A, should he pus in proper perspective - L.e., nok
ignored because of the potential embarrassment bat
considered in the light of what we already kaos ¢
{Almost all of them are repetitions of previ
charges aod reports, Known well to both the
and Paris stations and to Headquarters offic:
concerned with the ANLASH greun, whose member
relindSility, reputations and zood fai 2.
able. Tyo of the charges - about and
and about AMVHIP-1 and CARRILLO ~ Bra Hew.);

 
 
 
    

B. should be treated so as to proteet us against any
charge of laxity and so as to establish the fnetey pat,
at the same time, treated so as to avoid attributing
to them more importance than they deserve;

 
 
  

 

Broud 7 3
other governaentsa ox
connection yecal?

Mose, ressonsipi ty, 25

 

 

0863666

N

 

 

 
14-00000 .

. and

 

 

"She AMLASH circle is wide and wach new
seams to have knowledge of the plan." 14
probiem is a more serious and basic one.
naragrapn 3 of the present memorandum, ¥
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its =
cannot rule out the possibility of provecati
opviously, 18 2 dangerous gaze, not merely to
a paysical sense, but to a sponsoring governmer
suifer savere political repercussions at home 21
involvement is made known, In the instant case,
exposure of the ODYOXS hand would appear nigh, whe

  
 
  
 
 
 
  

 

 

  

 

  

2 proyocation or not. Considering the individeals who are
involved directly, their contagte with KURAEX oivicers,and their
reported plan to expose ODYOKS, versisting in the pian could

be highly embarrassing to HUBARBK. (This is sh more the case
mow thats ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and ODURGS, aithcugh
fortunately the tenor of his complaint was that KUBARE bad nok
given adequate support to the plan.)

       

. The contacts att ana the matters affecting
the tation.- The "recruitment" of? en nad heen the
subject of an eXchange of cables between t

 

     

    
 

nd oS discussions at Headguarters between And f 7x
i571 {IN 66557) and DIR-109553. The aunoaying thing

 

 

this connection now is that ESPINOSA hag talked sbouk ib to:
ODENVY and ODURGS and the danger that, if he is i
his story about this {and the other matt Ys) could reach some
curious newspaperman, (in this connection, appears thak the
duestionable decision to put. Maureen in te th the AM

sroup was made without the knowledzs of

   

Cs

   
   

  

 

     
  

t report any criticism of the KUBARKors at £
dent that the AMLASH group knows mors : an

ai wish, What is ney and of concern ASPINOSA about
5 ee wt? his Story of AMVSIP 2 anal[__svaFu—i9..

Rec} fa} > BMYIP-L are of mutual

             
 
   
 

 

   
   
  
 

z G@ Headquarters naing him and
he ha sited offen, (On :
ba . onethe OPS~2
ut the whole sroms and spe
&

cion with BM

°
ne knovledge on

 

    
  

 

¢ .
fon with AMWHIDP-1 and

ing BARK in the 3

is ODENYY kt
be i ene
an asks for coments -

nvay YLrom any
soecifically

OW
we

 

CUG3BET eres

saan
PAGE

COPY NO.

 

oo SRR ONT TIORY
PRONIGITED.

|
|

_6 of 119

 
14-00000

 

 

determine whether he has been truthfal in his reporting,

 

Criticism of zao| ___}estio

the Station by the AMLASH Group is nm
q oon

ee

 

 

  

 

and -3 wera i and wanted direct conta ul

Siakion has bad reservations about seeing them. The Station has
2en involved indlractly vecause oz repo ing i its sources

ohout Fe it ; ASLASE

and AM/ORLD operations (both handied Peo He sadquaxters).

(Sed 2982 (iN 72256) anc L2993 (iN -73094) (both RYBAT).}

Heatings among QUSPORT » (QUS¥Is =z, AMWHID-1 and AMLASH figures

produced contlitting résorts which previously were discussed ag

a at desdquarters. Insofar as GROWERY hissely is
concerned, it must be kept in mind that he is a natural targel
on whom the ANLASYH group would be inclined to focus its com
plaints. Yith regard to the specific complaint about "Tora",
GaOWERY has identiZied her as(QUS¥IST-7 ond has reported that
nO staiter from the Station ever had contact with her.

&. Further involvement of ESPINCSA: On 10 Jane ODENYY
notified RUBARK at New York chat ANLASH-2 had telephoned
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the
proper people" ~ 1.9., responsible KUBARK representatives - and
to request notices of the resulting arrangements.

6. AMWVHIP-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week.
to obtain DRG intormation: and to obtain clarification of the =
roles piayed by. tt @ invoived with him in the AMLASH operation.
His dealings with NASD - 19 Biso will be coversd. Following
an LCFLUTTER examination is planned. ‘fhis may help to.

 

 

Harold ¥. Swenson

WH/C/S?

 

 

 
