et groped a

IRD Fa “ 67MgL
Page 5

To your knowledge was there any misleading information in the
CHEREPANOV papers? Mo.

Did you ever personally meet GOLITSYN? No.

Was there_a_cable sent to Geneva for you to assist ARTEMEV
in the case? Yes.

Se

Did you personally make an approach wf | at the Moscow
Airport? Yes.

The Following relevant questions were asked on test seven:
Did you actually review the KGB file on OSWALD? Yes.

Did LEE HARVEY OSWALD receive any KGB training or assignments?
No.

Were there any microphones installed in the North Wing of the
U.S. Embassy in- Moscow? No.

Was the review of microphone reports one of your duties in
1960-61? Yes.

Are you withholding any information known to you concerning
KGB microphones or electronic activity against the U.S.
Embassy? No.

 

Before your official transfer to the Seventh Department did
you read the surveillance report on the visit of ABIDIAN
to PUSHKIN street? Yes.

Did you personally conduct a certain investigation of SHAKOV
in 1962 in Geneva? Yes. .

Was the rank of Lieutenant Colonel on your travel document
to GORKIY only a mistake by KASHPEROV? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test eight:
While in the U.S. Bubassy Section did you obtain a typewriter

for BORODIN for the preparation of a letter to Edward Ellis |
SMITH? Yes. :

ocg3es&

SECRET
ae (SECRET

it 67491.
a % -

with on a train from Helsinki to Moscow? Yes.

 

Did = read the official report of KOSOLAPOV on his contact

Are you intentionally withholding any information concerning
KGB knowledge of CIA personnel in Moscow? No.

' Is there any possibility that the KGB would dispatch an officer
to defect to the Americans? No.

Subject's polygraph test of 6 August likewise reflected no
indications of deception.

CONCLUSION

Based solely on the overall analysis of Subject's polygraph
tests, it is the opinion of the undersigned that the Subject has
been substantially truthful in answering the relevant questions
asked.

 

 

PORZFESS

 
74-00000

SLUE]

“trp # 67492
Page 2

Did you ever tell anyone in the KGB about your contact vith
American Intelligence? No.

 

Were you given instructions by the KGB to get in contact with
American Intelligence? No.

Were you told by the KGB to defect in order to carry out an
Intelligence mission? No.

The following relevant questions were asked during the second test:

Did the KGB actually send a commmication for your recall to
the USSR on the day of your defection? No.

Were you acquainted with CHEREPANOV? Yes.

Did you actually travel to Gorkiy in November 1963 to hunt for :
CHEREPANOV? Yes.

 

Are you deliberately withholding from us any information about
the KGB recruitment of Americans? No.

' Does the KGB have METKA and NEPTUNE 80? Yes.

; ‘ Were you the responsible Case Officer for John Abidian in 1950-617
° Yes.

Do you know tae + true name of ANDREY or SASHA? No.

Did you ever have tuberculosis? Yes.

The following relevant questions were asked on test three:.

Did you serve in Navy Intelligence from 1951 to 1953? Yes.

Was SHUBIN in the USSR during the period 1957 to 1959? Yes.

To the best of your knowledge, were you in the Seventh
Department at this time? Yes.

Did you telephone the GRU about SHUBIN at this time? Yes.

fo the best of your knowledge, was POPOV compromised because
of the letter Mr. Winters mailed? Yes. he

0003651

   
ng 0147-10049] -

tg

 

 

 

 

, ( DRI

TO :. Chief, Security Research Staff - 12 August 1968
FROM : Interrogation Research Division

SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO , zap # 67491

IDFNTIFYING DATA

Subject is a 40 year old former KGB Staffer who defected to the
U.S. in 1964 in Geneva.

BACKGROUND

Mr. Bruce L. Solie of the Security Research Staff has been de-
briefing and interrogating Subject since October 1967 in order to
resolve the issue whether Subject was a dispatched agent of the KGB.
He has conducted a vast amount of research and checking with sources
in an effort to establish the veracity of Subject's statements.

PURPOSE
The primary purpose of the polygraph test was to determine:
1. Whether Subject was a dispatched Agent of the KGB;

2. Whether Subject had intentionally given Mr. Solie
any false information.

PROCEDURE .
ee € 3

Subject was given a polygraph examination on 2 August 1968 at
a safesite in the vicinity of Washington, D.C. The examination was
conducted in the English language. Subject's comprehension and the
ability to express himself in English was completely adequete for
purposes of polygraph testing. Subject was completely cooperative
in all respects. Subject displayed no evasiveness and appeared to .
be completely frank whenever he was questioned or gave information
on a topic. :

fhe following relevant questions were asked during the first test:
Is your true name Yuriy Ivanovich HOSENKO? Yes.
Were you born in the year 1927? Yes.

fy,
Besides the Americans, did you tell anyone else about your
intention to defect? No.

0003650

 
74-0000

{ WOU!

rRD ¢ ste.

Page 3

To the best of your knowledge, was PENKOVSKIY exposed to the
KGB because of the 1 mass surveillance on the British Embassy?
Yes.

 

Was them any misleading information in the notes you brought
out from the Soviet Union? No.

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal association with
GRIBANOV? No.

Are you hiding any adverse information about your background? No.

Subject's polygraph test reflected no significant responses indicative
of deception regarding the relevant. questions asked. Wo further polygreph
tests were administered on this date because the examiner did not want to
run the risk of fatigue setting in and thus possibly causing adrenalin —
exhaustion.

 

Polygraph testing was resumed on 6 August 1968. ‘The following -
relevant questions were asked on test four:

Did you join the KGB in March 1953? Yes.
Were you a KGB officer from 1953 to 1964? Yes.

4 Were you a Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department? Yes.
Were you only a Captain at this time? Yes.
Were you an officer in the U.S. Embassy Section from March
1953 to May 1955? Yes.

In 1958 and 1959 were you the Deputy Chief of the American-
British-Canadian Section in the Seventh Department? Yes.

From January 1960 to December 1961 were you the Deputy to the
Chief of the First Section of the First Department? Yes.

From January to July 1962 were you the Chief of the First Section
of the Seventh Department? Yes.

Were you an officer in the First Section, First Department, SCD,

at the time of the Stalingrad operation against Benson, Mule and
Stroud? Yes. te

003652

 
74-0000

 

Tk ft 679.
Page 4

The following relevant questions were asked on test five:

Since 1953 do you know of any other KGB recruitments in the
American Embassy besides ANDREY and HOWARD? No.

Did the KGB know about the notes you brought out? No. |
Have you told us the complete truth about your KGB career? ; Yes.

Did you intentionally exaggerate your personal involvement in
eases in 1962 and 1964 in order to mislead us? No.

Did you intentjonally give us any false operational
information? No. :

Did GRIBANOV offer you the position of Deputy Chief of the
First Department? Yes.

Was an order actually prepared promoting you to Deputy to the
Chief of the First Department? Yes.

In early 1960 did GRIBANOV tell you that your primary responsibility :
was to work against American Code Clerks? Yes. :

Other than you mentioned, are you hiding any other reasons for
your defection? No.

Are you deliberately withholding any information on any foreigners
recruited by the KGB? Wo.

The following relevant questions were asked on.test six:

Did you enter the KGB through the influence of General BOGDAN
KOBULCV? Yes.

Did you succeed BAKHVALOV as Deputy Chief of the First Section?
Yes.

Did GRYAZNOV succeed you as Deputy Chief of the First Section?
Yes. .

Were the CHEREPANOV papers passed to the Americans with KGB
knowledge? No.

 
