 

$04-10074-10016) , a : Corts

a eo ‘ «1 adgust’ 1980

   
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 

 

NOUM POR RECCRD:

 

BVT: Conversations with Harry Hermsdorf re June, COBB.

 

On 22 July Harry Hermsdorf informed Jean Pierson that he was going to Habana
on the Vist, and sould contact dune COMB. He was reminded that the Branch
was in accord with his contacting her in Cuba. He replied that Col, Hing was ay
..-Interésted in the case, and besides “he wanted some stamps autographed by CASTHOMand
June could get it done. | D

I discussed the proposed trip wit who suggested that i see
Harry again to clarify the Branch feeling abow e Cuba contact; to determine just
what the trip was really for,. and as a last resort, 1£ Harry - intended: to go anyaay, .
to arrive at some means of communicating with. COBB since the plan he had set “p with ©
. her previously could. not “be satisfactorily backstépped. se : 28 me ae

   
 

 

  
 
  
  

Fri day ‘foi ing, ° the 29th, I. again discussed the propos
red - ‘again - the WH/L pesition re CCBB. I also inquiréd :t!
a ‘or the purpose of contacting. COBB
1 he had other businéss’ ‘put that ag’ long: he wag -theré he
in to see her. when I. asked when and where, he replied probably at ‘her apartment about ¢
ten cr tlevén at night. ‘In 'regly to my query 45 to whether this was rot a rather © _ -i
_ strange time for an unannounced visit, he said that there were several entrances ‘to the . Fr, .
building without going past the desk, He.also said that he would be travelling under eee
Austrian v papers’ as Heinrich Heubner from Jamaica and would arouse no suspicion. -

oe . communicating with .

“doubt over the security of the means of alestong. ‘COBB. set
e trip ta the States since it was not backs topped. there, oy
ok: of segurity- in- Rarry' s previous visi & te tg apartment. during hie a
had, discussed the- possibility of he oartiient ‘being boged: -and while
5 ¢ too disturbed about i'

   
 

 

    

 

   
  
 
 

 
 
   

 

Aft ter talking with, Hard, it was _appare’ it that” né would’ attempt to contact

 

coBB.
“to han

after sh “had received our tered to, make the trip. “| phoned. Harry. on Sunday and.

7 reminded him.again tat we didnot approve of hig contact with COBB in Habana, but
- that if he intended .to' do, ‘o' despite our feéling in the matter, that he-should set

Up some signal by which we could alert her for the trip, and also tell her shé wae
to: check; into the Statler. Hotel near Penn Station. The approxinate date set for

. a be the week of the 22nd of August. : :

  

 

   
  

 

ce a dean Pierson:

   

 
