13-00000

 

   
  
  
 

 

 

as. well as “photographic, of both ‘the ‘Soviet and Cuban Enbassies was’ .

1 SECRET

oy 102 “at no time during | his stay in Mexico city did the CIA acquire. = 2

cea photo. of OSWALD. A careful review ‘of all coverage, voice “intercept,

 

. conducted by the Station on 2 and 23 Novenber 1963 ‘after the sssassina~
"tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, | therefore, firm. oo
"that there was, no CIA photo coverage. of OSWALD at any. time during his” a

. ~ Mexico trip. or stay" in Mexico City. ‘Moreover, although it had. made a

a cabled request on 15 October, ‘the Next co Station had no photo of OSWALD:

in ‘its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters—-vnich did not

“have one either--before 22 Novenber 7963.

Wh torts Tris intensive review of voice intercept transcripts

by the monitor and other personnel on the. basis of the 1 October ‘inter-_

“cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated. to the
interested members of the intelligence community. (as an ex-Marine -OSHALD =
was, a Navy and FBI case under ‘the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially

‘of interest to. the Department. of State)--turned up matches based on

; ~ content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. “These '
- matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
‘based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the

monitor--and: this was not an insignificant element because of the
"memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the» :

“tapes, in accordance with the norma} practice, had been ‘erased and re- mused.

SECRET

 
13-00000

SECRET

12 It must be stressed that the voice: intercept and photographic ae

    

, coverage was not. (and normally is not) processed in. "real time." : “The:

means of acquisition and the volume of the ‘information precludes anything

 

but © the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor to be of. more’ than a
+. ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary ‘logs’. Full, texts of -
selected items require consultation of the ‘tape and either, a full tran- -

‘scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to becone.

 

available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection ona.

“rapid and accelerated basis in-four or five day "peaks." One of the a

 

* "triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more’ speedy.

 

_. review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of -

 

a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa- |‘

a, :

tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker said
he was “Lee OSWALD." it was this ‘information reported by the: Station to
- “Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voice intercepts: “it coupled the
data with descriptive information it had acquired fron a sensitive.

collateral source-~a photograph of a male individual, apparently an

 

American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy. on 1 October.
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident -
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced fron

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD. .

~SFERET
 

 

 

 

_ 1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was” a:

a SECRET Font

  
 

“small. commer ci aT traveler hotel, not’ frequented by *gringos* ~~

Hotel Commer ci o--where he was registered. under alias. _ Behaustive an a

 

o detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities, and. - a

the. FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollecti on of cae

; all hotel personnel he left early and returned late each i day. of. is stay. coe

8. Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and early” yoo
departure. that he slept one-thi rd of the time of his stay (38 or’ 39

hours) , there remain some 7B. hours of activity to be accounted for. Da

. Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief peri ods. Oe
- during 27, 28 September and I October. “AN coverage by. CIA during the |

“entire peri od was technical. The Station had no live source: (living ”

 

agent ) @querage et ther uni Tameeal_or from: Mexican Tiatson. a

9. It should be noted that OSWALD Was in no sense under ‘investi-

. gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in. the USSR and

return to the U.S., 1959 -'1962, were known to Mexico Station fi Tes ,
before 10 October 1963, when the, bare bones of his biography were |

forwarded by Headquarters in response to a. Station cabled report of |

8 October whi ch had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be

° a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit, to the USSR. ‘This’ i.

was indi cated and deduced from technical ly acquired information on
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself _ (parti ally): by true name.

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET 7

   
  
  
   
  
  
  

© politicized, rigidly. deterministic interpretive climate that. has been
-nurtured by the media ‘over the’ past decade about’ the” kennedy ‘Assassina—"
© tion. “The ‘Photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has. continued to oy -
7 peoceupy | "specialists" and has - become the centerpiece of another 7
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been “framed by the use of a-

double “in his activity in Mexico City. a

~ Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Nexi co city Stay

8 Aithough in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in, a

© Mexico city from the ‘morning of 27 September 1963 to the morning of :

2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important ; therefore , to

“an understanding of, the acquisiti on and handT ing. of the photographs by

the Mexico Station. to review what the Station ascertained and did with |

4 the- information it developed about OSWALD in | Mexico City, together with

" Headquarters action on that information.

7. From all credible evidence known to this time (none, incidentally,
‘added Since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
“ Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--

‘about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about: 10:00 a.m. 27 September: -

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
_ Qswald" by Bernard Fensterwald. and George O'Toole in the New York Review
on of Books, a copy ‘of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET
13-00000

Be : " SECRET

 

2 May 1975~

  

_-... SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
re Canmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey ;

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
: : A‘ Apri] 1975 (Attachment a). . a

7 le. ‘Reference memorandum suggests | it . would be appropriate to :
reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual no
data relative to the Subject « The purpose of this survey is to permit a. :

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

: Background

; 2. This examination and summary .of the record concerns a cropped me
photograph ‘considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy. (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and .
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. i! The photograph.

(together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly.

1 See Hearings Before the President's Canmission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX; p. 691.

 

SECRET . cg
13-00000

 

 

 

| CEER and. Mexican SeCUPRAUEhOTLCLeP against the Soviet and Cuban

 

we SECRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October. 1963 by the ©

 

 

 

 

Embassies in ‘Mexico City.

 

3. Under the extraordinary press of ef fort to develop information, i

. on the assassin and the assassination, copies “of the photograph were eo :

made avai lable by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of

22 November to the local FBI representative, and ater that day; -

asserted ly on the decision of the Anbassador copies were conveyed by

ah FBI representative by a special flight ‘carried ‘out by: the U. Ss. Naval
, Attaché to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible t use in the ongoing .
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to. ,

Mrs . Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD! ts mother) in Dallas on the

evening of 23 Novenber 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4. The Warren Commission's report describes. the sequence ‘of events -
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted ‘an
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD' s allegation that she had been shown a ‘cropped -

- photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her.son. (A further’ :

comp lication compounding this erroneous conc Tusi on was “the fact ‘that a

when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance

, before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in:

a slightly different manner. ).

5.. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that_beset simpTe truth in the

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

ston Hees penne wer enters —emere em — -

 

: MEMORANDUM FOR: “Deputy chiet, operations Staff

SUBJECT 7 - “:_. Review of. Agency. Holdings ‘regarding ©

"REFERENCE

  

“Dooument oneal :

 

Review on ots
for FOIA. 2 May 1975°

 

 

 

 

Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the
_. Warren Commission

Letter dated 15 April 1975 by

Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities:
within the United States, to _
Mr. E. Henry “Knoche (copy attached to-
accompanying report)

_ 1. This is | further to, and j in completion of, my
interim memorandum of a few. weeks .ago.

2. The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
chronological order - together with appropriate comment-
ary ~ of our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that

- have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by -

Mexico City Station on(h, (4) and (5; October 1963 of Sn
Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina~

‘tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the

stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop~
ment of the. investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one. of the photographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence. in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre ©
right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative. ;

eo : SECRET.

eZ IMFBET er Biome
 

104-10419-10293

 

8

 

 

 

 

 

: . BS “4 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510 _
AY: - a oo re
oy oe Ll, November: 18, 1975.
- Walter Elder: 7 ; ON
’ Review Staff ‘ : ; Z oe ,
* Central Intelligence, Agency | te,

this: “time requesting that we be supplied with one copy ;

 

fare Gace, IDAHO, CHAIRMA
gh G. Tower, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

armen. HOWARD be. Wace, JA. TO.

7 MONDALE, Miners, BARNEY COLDWATER, ARU | . ie
«0. MUDOLESTON, KY.  CHAMLES MOG, MATHIAS, “MOL %

Ae eet, DBhnifed Btates Sencte

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRSCTOR

“PREOERICK A. ©. SCHWARZ, Jn, CHIE COUNSEL SELECT COMMITTEE TO

GUATIS R. SMOTHER, MINORITY COUNSEL : i
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH .

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES -

 
 
   
  
   
   
  

(punsuany ro 5. nes. 2, uTH CONGRESS)

: Washington, Dd. Cc.
Dear Watts
As we discussed “yesterday afternoon, ‘I am at oe

each of the following memorandums prepared by Raymond
. Rocca, memorandums which you will recall we. discussed
at the preliminary stages of the inquiry: © .

1. May 2, 1975. Report from Raymond Rocca .
. tosDeputy Chief, Operational Staff, “Review. of
Agency Holding Re Photo of Unidentified ~ me
Individual in Mexico City. Published by Warren -
Commission." (40 pages. plus attachments) :

 

-2. May 23, 1975 memo from DC/OPs, "Review. o£
. Selected Items in the Oswald File Rez

Allegations -in the Castro-Cuban involvement ©
in the JFK Assassination" (27 Pages). baa

 

 

AS. I mentioned, “we. would: appreciate ‘Yeceiving these”
reports by Thursday in order to insure proper preparation se
‘for the briefings we scheduled for Friday, . November 21, 1975, :

 

  

‘Sincerely,

_fit df. he

"Paul &. Wallach

 

BLE MB) AE
13-00000

te “6B BC RET an a er

3. The attached report is not intended to be an...
- answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin.
-attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-
by~paragraph refutation and comment on that.article, ,
‘which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa:
' yate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will _ Prepare ‘this a
a memorandum | if that is desired. -

 

   
   
   
  
 

 

; “4, The point of the referenced memorandum is- ‘that
‘consideration should be given now to “whether or -not the
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This
. submission is designed to make it possible for you,, the’
iG and others whom you. may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been.
_put. together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms, .
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo -;
“well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. .This point must.
-be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's: —
‘question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith.in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. .It ©)
seems. to.me necessary; in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
_his. representative review the documentation that backs up .
-the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into:
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
.developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: there

is “only one copy’ of this collection; this is it-T.

; 5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken” in”
Mexico City..on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the
Warren Commission: public record. However, it was intro-
. duced into that record in two cropped versions. The
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in:
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in
‘Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact . §
that we had additional photographs of the same individual k
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con- -
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assassination. _

 

 

 

    
  
   

 

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these ate—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the ~*
narrative report (see Items 25 ~ 27).- Chief, LA Division, -—

2
SECRET

’

 
13-00000

 

SECRET 0S

- had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he. has no.
objection. for Mr. Belin to’ do whatever is ‘desired with oe
these photographs at this time. It: ‘should be noted that.
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually. shown, by:

Mr. Houston during a visit.to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published

_in the Warren Commission. report. . (It is these two that

- he has published in The New York. Review of Books article .

' which Mr. Belin attaches ‘ko his memorandum. } :

7. It seems to me that whoever makes- a decision on.
_whether the entire matter ‘can be. fully disclosed at this .

 

‘also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up.”
_the background of the photographs or, alternatively,.to .
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none.
of these questions. apply. to the passage of this material .
to Mr. Belin and the Rockeféller Commission itself. TI
think they. should see the entire documentation as it
Stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"

“ could be taken. up with Mr. Belin himself. ‘My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this. -

| matter in.a fully open and final manner, the better off
' we, will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding - .

“that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from ‘the
fact that the operation which produced the photographs _
was jointly rin with Mexican liaison and as a consequence.

. publication at this time would create additional problems .
at..that level.in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that _
the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum te
J.C. King on 22 November. 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the — |
decision to. put the photographs into the hands of. the. FBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know, .

. there has not been anything published about this aspect.
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions —
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

   

“Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments:
as stated

an an Rem

. time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must"...
