 

(ftoetotan-i06]

 

31

.

  

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Monday - 28 November 1977

“© "30, ‘(Confidential --GLC) LIAISON ‘Received a call from

‘Seymour Shwiller, on the staff of the House Armed Services Subcommittee

on Intelligence & Military Application of Nuclear Energy. He said he >
would like to have a briefing on "that Russian thing that appeared in the
paper this afternoon or tomorrow morning, I told Shwiller I would

“ chéck with our people ‘and be back’in touch with him. (Shwiller isa ~~

“former member of the staff of the Joint’ Committee on Atomic Energy.

He has all the necessary compartmented clearances and has been briefed
on. matters of. this sort in the past. He is now continuing the same kind
of xesponsibility in his’ ‘current staff. capacity With the House Armed
Services | Committee. ) . . .

. 3h (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Bob Blakey, Chief
ounsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, to talk with him
‘urther about the inquiry I had received from a Committee staff employee

who was concerned about her. Clearances, - (See Memorandum for the.

Record. )-

(Confidential - . GLC) LIAISON Tony Laphani, Géneral |
Counsel, nad I met with Tom Latimer and Mike O'Neil, both on the”
staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and
Bill Miller, Staff Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence,
t6 discuss a pérsonnel matter of interest to the Director.

ABH 33.- {Confidential - CM) LIAISON--Goncerning the cable from

which advised that Representative Robert Dornan (R., Calif. )

 

_ is‘to“be in London on’2 December and had asked that a 32

 

 

Lperved as anescort -

 

 

for Mr. Dornan during the Paris Air Show in May 1977, brief him on

matter’ Shep Shepanek, SA/DO/O,
reported that ‘the DDO interposed no objection to having the staffer meet
with Mr. Dornan, but thought it advisable to inform Mr. Dornan

before he goes of the staffer's true affiliation. Lyle Miller concurred.
With this as background I called Mr. Dornan's office and asked for an
‘appointment to see him briefly before he left for Europe.

HO) Thad Fame

 
