“OLA FT

Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman
Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

This letter is written on the understanding that you welcome a
statement on the Agency's view of the issues arising from CIA's
handling of Yuri Nosenko, which arose in connection with your
inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy.

First, it should be noted that the reservations in 1964 over Mr.
Nosenko's reliability as a witness, along with what he had to say then,
was reported personally to Chief Justice Warren by Mr. Helms. Given
the questions that existed at that time, the information Mr. Nosenko
offered was not factored into the findings of the Warren Commission.
Had this information been accepted at the time, it would have served to
reinforce conclusions of the Commission rather than alter them. I
trust that there is no issue on that point.

There are two critical considerations in the handling of Mr.
Nosenko, both of which bear on how he should be viewed. These are
the errors in his interrogation and the way he was treated.

A critical aspect of Mr.-Nosenko's interrogation at the beginning
was a preconception then prevalent in certain elements of the
intelligence community. ‘There was concern that he was a dispatched
agent, sent to mislead us not only on the status of Lee Harvey Oswald
but on other things as well. ‘The issue was not limited to the
Oswald issue for, as you know, CIA had been in touch with Mr. Nosenko
well before President Kennedy's death and his own later defection, and
earlier had received useful information from him. He is not the only
man whose bona fides were strongly suspected at that time.

The problem at the time was very real. There was little
that could be done to clarify or verify the few things that Mr.
Nosenko had to say about Lee Harvey Oswald, however important

_ they might be. If a proper perspective was to be established for

considering the case, it would have to be settled first on the
isSue of whether he was a-bona fide defector. The course chosen by
those with responsibility for the case was to break ‘him-as they
were convinced that. he was not a bona fide defector. ‘The steps
taken to do this were then and remain grossly improper.
(40067-10143)

 

.
«

oe

20 March 1979

i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Dick Rininger, OGC
Jack Sullivan, 0S f ‘
Russ Holmes / uve
Clare sumprrony-se}oos" Staff b pe?

ale sumption DDO \.
Ww
FROM : S. BD. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

SUBJECT : Memo Proposed for DDC! to Stokes on Nosenko

Assuming Blakey wants a letter, I submit the attached
draft for preliminary review. It will have to be coordinated

formally if the letter is desired.

3: De. areckini Of £:
Attachment

  
Important aspects of Mr. Nosenko's interrogation by those
assigned to work with him, was based in significant respects on the”
transcripts of early questioning of him. ‘The records of those
early debriefings were put in transcript form in English, translated
from Russian. They contained a number of mistranslations, which
came to serve as the basis for testing the consistency of what he
said. As he made statements inconsistent with some of those early
transcripts, he was cross-examined intensively on these apparent
inconsistencies in an effort.to force his confession that he was a
false defector. It requires little imagination to understand how
intensive interrogation of a man, challenging what he was saying in
contrast with what he was incorrectly recorded earlier as saying,
could compound initial distortions and build a record that could be
righted only with some difficulty. When the extended period of
detention, under extremely spartan living conditions, was made a
part of recurring intensive interrogation, one must recognize the
permanent harm done not only to the record, but to the clear and
unburdened memory of .the man.

We will never really know the extent to which the treatment
accorded Mr. Nosenko may have affected his memory on things known
clearly to him at the beginning. We now know that much of the
record built against him was founded on initial errors extended
and compounded by the way in which his interrogation was handled.
We have taken steps to ensure that such an occurrence will not be
repeated.

Mr. Nosenko was removed from the responsibility of those in the Agency
who handled him initially, and was placed: with others, who addressed the
case afresh. Mr. Nosenko, as a result, ultimately was released to private
life and since then has proven himself a valuable asset of the American
Government. Now, fifteen years after his defection, there is an
accumulated record of the value and reliability of what he has told
us. It is impressive indeed. He has proven a unique source of
information on Soviet intelligence operations against ourselves and
some of our allies; a number of inteligience coups have been based
on information from him. :

It must be observed that former Agency ‘employees contesting the
current Agency assessment of Mr. Nosenko are essentially defending the
record of their own stewardship, feeling that they have been wronged

_by its having been made public. It is their own past revelations to the

media, made in violation of their commitments to secrecy, that have
placed ‘the matter in the: public domain. This lea to emergence of the
issue in the context of the present investigation, with the -
disclosures. to which they object. Expressions of injury :

by these former employees must be viewed with some reservation.
Certainly, their treatment of Mr. Nosenko remains a mar

on the Agency's record. The Agency must share the fault for that
conduct, which cannot be deflected by diversionary argument.

The fact remains that Mr. Nosenko was accorded inexcusable
treatment. The original record of his questioning was flawed;
its continued uncorrected use served to further mar the handling
of the case. It is understood that some of these recorded errors
may have had their effect on the Committee as well. That Mr.
Nosenko has proven so useful a man subsequently is the final test
of the matter.

_ Any further detailed discussion of this matter would serve only
to obscure the central facts. We are satisfied as to the true nature
of past errors, and hope to avoid a recurrence. We are satisfied
with Mr. Nosenko's contributions over the years, and with his
continued value today.

Sincerely, —

Frank Carlucci
