 

2 July 1960

TO + CAH/4
Subject: Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

“1. B&ekground. An invitation to visit Cuba has been extended
to Khrushchev by the Governnent of Cuba. The invitation has been

' accepted, but do definite time has been set. There has been sons

speculation that Khrushchev would arrive in Havana in time for the
celebrations of the 26th of July. The press has reported that ke
will arrive in August (a date confirmed by a statement of the Soviet
‘Ambassador in Mexico), Other reports say the visit will not teke
place for several months, probably in December or January. In any
event we must plan for the possibility of the July visit.

It has been stated from several sanguine quarters that we
should "do the same thing to Khrushchev. that the Japs did to Eisen-
‘hower", This is a completely unrealistic drean,

It is true that «a successful Khrushchev visit to Cuba
would be the final stoxe in the construction ef a solid Soviet
base in Cuba, with disturbing overtones for the pessible construction
for more Soviet ideoligical bases in all.of Latin America, For that
reagon we are trying to do what we can to prevent the visit, or at
least to show a naseive eX opposition to it. -

26 Exploitati@nPlang. On 21 dune Hgs sent a cable to Havana
“asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force cancellation
of the vielt. A resulting series of cables shows thst the station and
headquarters are now in agreement that our best hope lies in

a. A massive Church manifestation or rally, which
though called for some other purpose, would be to the pecple
of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest, And

b. from outside Cuba, instigating of rwaors that
Khrushchev’s life will be in danger f= frem a well-plenned
assassination attenpt.

3. Mr. Helms has tcld & us that he wants CIA to undertake no
action that will imperil Station esscets, This injunction was placed
on us while we were exchanging cables with Havana. The result is that
station agsets are actively instigatirg the church to hold the rally.
A BREZESSEZ cable from Headquarters hes instructed the station to
continue this course of action as long as there is "safety in numbers",
i.e., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one.
13-00000

 

 

OE  €

; 6
4. The latest cable from the fiela (IN 18883) “reports that

. that plans are going ne Aden, wth ishop pore _~ is Hk

au "enthused" about the idea, With(Jose Lavastidd de BS prominent
lay leader, he is now visiting Camadtiey to solicit the support of
‘the local B=sR Bishop. (Jose Lavastidd}“a promient lay leader, ig
in Santiago to seek thevhelp k of the Sant4ago Bishop. Tentative

’ plans call for a congress or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

. The station has asked that the entire effort at least
‘begin within Cuba, without cuside support from FRD or me

5. Hemisphere Plans. A cable has gone out to CELA (in (g-ll
Bogota asking this Church organization to spark similar rallies —

“thr out Latin America. JMRAKE assets will be called upon to

support these and the Cuban neeting when BS plans ere fprner.

48 ination R=msk angle: (21oseuisis) a
controlled age’ t , is soon to visit high officials in
Havana, He. has béen Tnetructed to ask these leaders what sub- _
stance there might be to the rumore he has heard that an attempt
will take plhace.....Rivas, a friend of Rudy Gomez, is using the
same katintowexteex technique through three Cubans living in Miami
who are constant contact with Cuba.

Speculation on the assassination sttempts will be surfaced
on the WRUL program, in AMPACA'S paper, etc.

David A. Phillips
13-00000

 

 

 

MOUM FOR: Directar of Cantral Intelligence

VEAL _ . Deputy Director (Plans)

 

“SUBJECT: | Operational Exploitation of Khr ashchay Visit to Cuba

t, This memorandum ig for the Director's information only and does
mot secuire action.

- 2. An invitation by the Government of Cuba to Khrushchev to visit
‘that country hae beon officially accepted, but as yet no dofinite time has
been set. There has been speculation that Khrushchev would arrive In
Habana for the 26th of July celebrations, while a press report, confirming
a etatement of the Soviet Ambaasadeor in Mexice, predicts the arrival for
August. Earller reports had suggested Becember 1640 or January 1741
as possible: dates.

3, His feit that a successful visit by Shrushchey te Cuba would assist
further in the establishment af a solid Soviet understanding with that country,
with distarbing overtones on the possible establishment of claser Soviet
relationships in other parte of Latin America, For this reason it le
desleable to prevent the visit or te counteract it by a show of massive

| sppeaition by the Cuban people.

 

4 On 21 Jane the Habana Station was asked for its views on possiiic

 

plans. in the exchange of cables that has followed, the Station and Neadcucrter:

are gow In agreement that the best course of action lies in two operations.
First, @ maeesive church manifestation or rally to be called for some other
purposs would afford the people of Cuba an obvioue way to exprese@ their
protest. Second, the instigation of rarners that Khrushchev's life will be

\is danger while in Guba from a well-planned assassination attempt would
be progagated from other Letin American countries.

S. Because of the need of avoiding action in Cubs in this cratter ths
would imperil Station assets, 1 has been dete siciined that such assets
be used only ag a sceans of iustigating the church to hold the rally.

  

. 6. The latest report from Habapa indicaics that plens are going
satisiactorily. (Bishop Boza Maavidad)i ts deseribed as enthused about the

ob

‘ip
CJ

     

IA ET] _UACLASSIFIED

 

SUBJECT: (Optional)

       

PONAL
J... ONLY

(] COMNFIE VIAL

- ROUTING AND RECORD SHES:

(1) secret

 

TO: | (Officer designation, rodm number, ond
. building) .

OFFICER'S
INITIALS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ieee 610 “ETRENEYS SECRET

zit

 

 

 

CL] CONFIDENTIAL

 

INTERNAL = ]_sCUNCLASSI FLED
U, 8, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 © + 476731

 

 

 

COMMENTS (Number’ each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
13-00000

 

WH p
when plans are firmer.

. . 2 .
&, Te ( )will be asked to send ons of its
contacts in thefield of journalism to Habana to contact officials and to

 

we

: ith Gose Lavasitda) & prominent lay leader, Re is now visiting
ay to eolicit the suoport of the local Blehep. (Lavastidd will seek
las support in Saatisas, Tentative plans call for a congress or rally
sptlon rd 5 July.

  

   

+. Tha ctation hag asked that the entire effert begin with Guba,
withou initial outside support from Cuban exile groups or the soonsore of
the anti-Cactre programs on Station WAUL, A cable bas been ceat(to /6-1]
ne have the € Ee A 2 ephrk almilar rallies throughent Latin America.
ge ageets wili be called upon to aupport these and the Cuban ageets

 

visit the offfees of the New China News Agency. He will be instructed to
ask Camazrunist staff members there what substance there might be te
rumers be hag heard that an assassination attempt on Khrushchev will tate
place. The same terbnique is boing used through three Cubana living in
tdiamii whe are ia comdiant centact with Guba. Gpeculatien em guch attests
wilt Ga surfaced on the WRU program and In certain cuatrolied Latia
pres media,

J. O, Eing
Chief
“esterm Hemisphere Clvision

Distribution:

Original and ] ~ Addressee
1-ppcr
1-DDP
1-C/WHD
1-C/WH/4
1 - Originator
1 - WH/4/CGrono
13-00000

 

 

 
