74-0000

 

 

Subject:

i.

. RYBAT .

wt SECRET a
cd Faye }

« engdogyre Se. 1 bo angie 33

diss mary L. FINNS Acquaintance «ith Iden A of Dld ite
(All Idens xeyed to sam kef.)

Sebject wrote the following concerning her acquaintance with Iden &s

 

“Er have twep asked by, to recount any cootact I have
hat wath {i¢en a/. 1 am perfectly willing to do this, ay only
regret being that my sole contact with the gan fs vagse fa oll
respects, .

“as I recall, in the fall of 1959, I was invited by {Idea B7 to attend
@ small isformal pagty. accepted the invitation anc was called

for at ey hoo by {Ides Pj and her escort, {Iden €/, we meat fo

the hore of {iden U/ 19 the zou block of Taylor St., K. &. {ides Bf
gad another person, @ youth of about <u years shose eagg I don't
Terember, went to the party with us, we traveled ia Icen D's cor.

"Enroute to {iden A°g/ how, we were Involy-d fn @ winor accident oe
<1 St., %. c. between South Dakota and ist. nie Island Aveases. No one
was Injured, and aftet_gthe cogaila of the accident were straightened
out, we proceeded te {Iden A‘ home, near Laurel, #aryiaad,

“Laside the aforementioned people, another guest, 8 gen:lenas, was
at the party: however, I do not recall] his name. 1 believe there
were HO other yuesis.

"During the course of the evening, drinks were served, geeersl cone
wersatioa aas gade = 1 don"t recall any particular topics discussed =
we danced to records, looked at slides, and listened to the pieno sad
siolia, played by senbers of the group. .

“after the asual courtesies of thanking the host for an esjoyable
evening ang expressing the hope of secing him again sometime, the
guests departed, we erraved home without further ineidest. —

?l was contected at least once, and perhaps twice, after tnis party

for another such ggtherigng, but 1 was not able to Join tte group agaie.

1 believe it was {Idea a/ ae extended the later invitation. I thiak
the last contact that was aede wes not Jater than January 1960,

“I should Like to state again that I regret not being able to recall
with gore certainty the incidents relating to this aaetizg, However,

“at the Uime, it was an iacidental social event and of coarse I had

Bo idea of the Importance this meeting would have in the fztare.”

Eigneg? :
Mary L. Finas .

 

 

 

 

4
4
H

 
 

104-10219-10138 cae nee nena ceemnnd

a ee eT . | j

115.200

 

 

 

toe cote 2 June 1961
: aemect tt

ee
LET" — RECT “SF “DE, i
[tea a oe
MORL2D FOR BF
WO 85-00NS E

PAG CAN br PELE
Of Cus UHED MG DES OAT

 

  

 

 

Meer a

&. BIR 40967, 25 May 1961 ,
B SLIT uTo, 31 Mey 1961 3
_ ©, SLBE O81, 12 June 196). we

1, Tre attached sezorandam provides Inforwstion gethered by
dering two cosversatioas with Miss Wary L. FISAN os 18 eed”
TY Jaao YET at tho Likund mission we. r Lilongwe, Uyaselasd.

 

 

 

 

 

» 2. Sebject was cooperative end aopeared to be forthright to proetdtng®
Information ow her very linsted acquaiatesce with Idea A ef Bef, AL me
soemd fonressed that gha hed bean seryght oat is the slddle of ntwnitare, ten -
theasand wiles from hoes, ged aildly cosretned, though Rot pagal’ 990, :

ih

3. Subject suid che bad firat heard of ‘Iden A's flight fa 6 letver “
frog ber wetter Jest August. Her wotlar had also written thet sha t-> bees
ap,roachsd officially fa Sashiagton in cosnsction with Subject*s kamvisg -
Iées A. Sabject said she Bed written her wother with all the deteile tim -.
coeld remaber but did not keow whether they had is fact bees peated aierge - |

. 4. Biosrecrica) dats « Sebjeat eald that Westingtez, B.C. hed sirrey
beea ber hows, She was Lorn there fn 19%5 aad weet to school thers, fisindity -
St. Aatbocy's, Sha then attended Cothsile Colversity ware ghe campieted |.
Ber eonrseg fa the puraing echeol ix Juse 1953, Following ter gradestice,  -
&te worked at the Providence Hospited ig Yashiagton esti) Jase 1929 whee abe
took & saucer Job es a narso ot Cam Sedrescoygiea near Lewiston, Bains.’ :
Starting in october 1959, she porkes st Children’s Bespital ip fsekingtons
About tho eo4 of 1959 tha daciéed would like to entur aiastow wirk sbried
eed begsa taking evening coutsos «i 3s Wowin Volentetrs Aszcciation, 19. taibe
Residence, 16th Street, N. 8, (Thavdidrons of the oryanisatiaa ban ¢ .
Gurtng the past year.) In midel96Q she solled oa the ata tec te
to Venice end thea on the Africa te Puirs, Kozsnbique, eg trots
Ryeralaad, Kir coopanion on the trip sad present bouseaate is apo
Cathotie murso maved Lonise COFFMAN {roe Cusherlasd, W.rylead. Seb!

Revor travelled catside tke U. §. praviously with tha exveptiex of a

Teese ta Caaeda. She now plasa to- ‘Feusin st the mission in Fyatelané © x tnt

 

 

ae he nee ee tee oe RD Re es ee

 

 

 

beepers eG MOA TERM oA mam o 8

 

pwn . ShClosu regs ets -
l. Bogert on Mies Finaa's nonlodge :

: Of Idse A. (3 espics) |.
4, Wise Pleea's totter a “a ae ;

 

"gy aes Be
 

3

segpesam

en Serer

ee

Fa ee ee Thea Deal ae

A ° RYBAT ms
seckert 4
' Page <

«- Sebject says that this was the only occasion Chat she was with
Tree A. If Iden A were at gatherings at Idea U's at the sace time she
was, she Goes aot teca:i it. Se did not attend a wrestiing match at the
YMCA with Idea A and to the best of her | knoaleaye has sever been to 8
wrestilag gates.

3. Sabject met icea B threagh her neice who was in Subject*s class ot
fiarsiag schoo} at Cattolie University. She subsequently saw Iden B froe tine
to tice bat exhibites virtually oo knowledge of Iden C; she did not know bls
last sam, did aot reecgaize it wien it was meationed and did not know what
be did for @ living. farther, she did mot tie him together in her thiakiag
with Iden D whoa she Gidimow,

4. Subject does wot recall the aeme of IdenD's friend who was the
fifth iacavidual who weat in their car to the gathering at iden A°s; BoP
Goes she know what bis tie was to Idea D.

“ $8. To the Rast of Subject’s recollection, the group of five she
travelled with were at iden A's from about 9 p. m. until about midnight.
As she writes, they Cerced, watched sifdes (of the U.S. dest} and listened
to the plaso aad violis - Iden A playing the foraor and I4en D the latter,
Sbe dors cot recall scr specific coaversation oor any comments made by
Iden A. Ste bas no retcilections sc impressions regarding him, his ideas,
bis motivations, his icsology, bis conduct. Ia fact, Idee A made such @
slight ispression on rer thet ebe didnot recognize his pictare im the clipping
forwarded ty her mother and barely recollected the evening in question.

6. Altboagh she iz uncertaia whether it was Iden A or Iden C who sabe
sequently iavited her t2 another gathering, she balieves that Iden A did se
om at Itest one occasica. (She said this varies with her earlier recollection,

which she urate in her tettor to her sother, that it was Idea C who hed done
se.)

7. Sabject believes there were only seven people at Idea A's. She .
resexburs virtually po ¢getalls coscereing the seventh person, the asa che
@id set cove with her grap. She estimates that he woe about thirty and

free commeets made durizg the slides that be aad Idea A bad been acqusiated
whea both were out #est.

. RYBAT

SECRET

my ooo

 

  
 

cemented cee
