74-0000

   

OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: .10. On 17 March 1964, the following items were |
; included in two caches put. down for CUBELA.

2 Belgain FAL rifles and ammo

2 UZI 9 mm. SMG and ammo :

2 Browning pistols with silencers and ammo
10. handgrenades. (fragmentation)

10 handgrenades (white phosphorous)
20 lbs of C-4 with firing devices and allied
equipment including time pencils and clocks.

11. On 3 May 1964, CUBELA asked ‘for an FAL
- : - Silencer. ‘According to the news, the cache
- : oO . was discovered by a small boy. In February 5
; . 1965, CUBELA said portions of the cache were :
recovered by a fisherman. The pesos were :
not usable due to type. He never received .
‘any part of the cache, he said. -

12. On 30 August 1964, Jorge Carlos ROBRENO
(AMLASH/2 "El Mago", a Cuban refugee in ;
Madrid, and Cdte. Efigenio Ameifeiras, Vice .
Minister of Special Affairs MINFAR, put out
. _ feelers to AMWORLD saying they were out of
step with the regime and wanted to talk to

 

Then Alberto BLANCO Romariz ya CAML AGH/ 2) arrived
in Madrid on 2 September 1964 as a refugee.

He talked to Mr. daver-recr tone 7
| . Sept with a
making the introduction. He _ :

poke vagtiely about CUBELA'S plan to
assassinate Castro. He said that Tepedino
- was. responsible for delivering into Cuba one
; See / FAL with Silencer. CUBELA was to be the ‘
trigger man with th s ort of unidentified |
— ne _..htilitary officers. be conts Sileo reprimanded
BLANCO and said thei¥ Gdfiversation was all
a waste of time. ; “

 
 
  

 

i
4
1
i
f
i

  

Aart Argge7e
74-0000

   

-6- | . - SG

- OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 13. On 11 November 1964, CUBELA went to Prague -
7, ; _ . asa special guest of the International: :
Union of Students (IUS). His’ trip was ae,
arranged at his request by Jose VENEGAS :
Valdespino, a Cuban vice president. of IUS
and a personal friend. On 13 November
: ' Artime agreed to talk to Cubela; as the
‘ outside contact. of the internal 26th of July.
and DR internal dissidents. At a meeting ;
with “Sanson" on 6/7 December, Cubela told
"Sanson" he was going to meet _Artime. The
meeting with Artime took place on 27 December
“1964. Present were CUBELA, ARTIME, Jorge .
Carlos ROBRENO, Alberto BLANCO. Romariz,” Nilo™
Messer and Miguel "Cuco" de Leon. During
the meeting, after they were alone, CUBELA
explained his position, plans, needs, etc.,
to Artime and an agreement. was reached.
Artime provided Cubela with a silencer. for
an FAL.

 

14. On 1/2 February 1965, “Cubela requested
$10,000 from "Sanson" to finance his
operations. It was refused on 3 February.
Instead Tepedino gave Cubela $7,000, $5, 000
of which had been provided by KUBARK and

$2,000 by Tepedino.

. i
os . 15. Cubela returned to Cuba on 23 February 1965.
- o : CIA has had no further direct contact with
se Cubela, and he has not utilized his SW
to us since that time. .

16. On 23 February 1965, CA/PA passed_a letter 1

through the AMSNEAK operation to( UNSNAFU/25

implying that Cubela, i.e., "one of the : j

: : Comandantes" had recently received an ~ 4 :
ee ee ; additional 95,636 in his secret bank account. ad

a Fame see cae SBC

 

 

~ : 7. So ant  @OUP2Y
74-0000 :

   

~Q- : , 7 a bo :

‘OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 2. In Augiist 1962 CUBELA went to the Helsinki -
: : . World Youth Festival whe: °
Tepedino who introduced

under the alias William “BIII™ Thompson .
This was a follow up to the first meeting
with the objective of inducing and.
facilitating CUBELA'S defection. ‘However,

' due to CUBELA'S plans, the objective became
an attempt to set up an internal dissident

ae group for the overthrow of the Government
aaa ; ~ = and sabotage. CUBELA said he.was not in-
; , - terested in any small undertaking, and declared .

the assassination of Fidel and other leaders
“would be the most effective. way to rescue .
the revolution from the Communists. . 2

 

3. Later in August 1962 CUBELA “went on vacation"
in Paris where he met “Bill Thompson" again
and KUBARK sought more information on his
proposal to overthrow Castro. CUBELA also
discussed the need for the U.S. to become
more deeply involved with LA students who,
ten years later, would be on the road to
becoming key figures in LA governments.
Tepedino was present at most of these meetings.

4. In late August-early September 1962, CUBELA
was taken to a U.S. Air Force Base in.
southern France where he was given’ a
- : ee . demonstration in explosives. CUBELA had ;
; thought of blowing up an oil refinery and i
was also considering the elimination of :
Carlos. Rafael Rodriguez, the Soviet Ambassador, |
and Fidel. himsel £ . CUBELA was not. given any
sabotage e i t but was trained in SW.
(true name) accompanied
_. L - ee Fhis trip but was always called
a ; — , “Jaime* “by ‘CUBELA. Jack"Ked" Stent (as ~~ s
: Jack. Stevens) and a TSD SW technician under
= <=-- the assumed nameof Capt. David L. Harper.
“also | accompanied CUBELA..

| per ‘2 O637CUBELA was wet-in Ports oa
Alegre, Brazil, by "Bill Thompson" and by .

  

 

  
 
 

 

  

"Nicolas Sanson". Tepedino wa was also pre:
at these meetings. CUBELA claimed he had -
written two SW messages with FI (one was

., received) but. nothing significant had been .
| happening in Cuba. He said he was reluctant
to use SW because he feared the. efficiency

of the Cuba 1 censorship.
= SEUIET”

— eos— 2S. 2229 4

 
 

 

(foe totoatote7] > sx

  

_ NAME Rolando CUBELA Secades

DPOB 19 January 1933, Cuba :
MARITAL STATUS = ‘Twice married. Was divorced by his first wife

by whom he had one child. Has one child by
second wife. ;

BIOGRAPHIC DATA Rolando CUBELA Secades was one of the activist |
: student leaders who assisted in the overthrow Ss
os i -of Batista and later turned against the Castro

regime because of ‘disaffection with communism. . L.
. : ; As early as March 1952, CUBELA was working 4
: against Batista. With student friends, including.
the four Humboldt Street martyrs made famous . i
in the Marcos Rodriguez trial, CUBELA re-instituted 4
“the University Student Federation or Directorate - :
FEU or DR, as it is called. In 1956, CUBELA i
participated in the assassination of Lt. Col.
_ Antonio BLANCO Rico of Batista's Military SE
Intelligence (SIM). Fleeing to the USA, he a, {
became involved in military planning and purchasing —
arms until 1 February 1958, when. he and 16 other —
students returned clandestinely and into the
: Escambray to fight. He led a famous column, a
, m became the overall DR military leader. _Although: ~ 1
: . the DR joined military forces with Castro's an
26 July Movement, they refused .Ernesto: Che"
Guevarra's military leadership, fighting’ only
under CUBELA'S orders, They occupied the - i
Presidential Palace when Batista: fled on |
i January 1959 and initially declined to.turn = | ~ i
it over to Guevara and Castro... In October 1959, :

 

; . CUBELA became. president of the government- i
cad eas = Sponsored—FHt,- after-resiming-tris-medical_.- ; ~
studies at Havana University. .In 1961, after i

. his term ended, he terminated his connection _

7 with S Causé of Serious disagreement

with Castro and Guevara. .

 

 

 

OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: 1. In March 1961, ‘CUBELA went ‘to the Latin _ 4
. ———— ; —Americam Peacé Conference in Mexigg-—where—
_ . . ——he_ was contacted by a personal friend, —

: ino (AMWHIP/1) who knew so 4
Cin true name) from Havana. cee
tnd introduced them. The KUBARK objective i

of the meeting was to determine whether — _
CUBELA was anti-Castro and, if so, to bring.
his views to the attention of the authorities
in the United States. 61:5 :

SECRET =

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

  

~3- oS ep Fe a

“OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: ; He cited a group of Cuban military officers -
. - '.- and discussed ways to approach, then. The :
problem was, he explained, that. although
many of them were anti-Communist, they were
loyal to Fidel or they were so afraid, they
were reluctant to discuss any conspiracies
for fear they might be provocations. CUBELA |
- was of the opinion that there was no organized
conspiracy within the military or in other :
groups. in the country. Internal security
and controls were effective and. improving
.Gaily. At this meeting CUBELA volunteered
the_informa that he thought highly

   
 
 

 

 

of /10) who was ag
. hiding (AMICE/14, an :
. infilt “SSCt WhO waS sent in to recruit :
cn and _ did so). CUBELA said he planned

o use but he was concerned about his .

 

? . : hervous Condition.and the fact he drank.
' heavily. CUBELA was told to assist >
and let him remain in Cuba rather ty p
LO . to leave the country as CUBELA proposed.

‘6. From Porto Alegre, CUBELA went to Paris on .
14 September 1963 where he met with Tepedino, .
"Nicolas Sanson", Jack "Red" Stent, Richard
Long.. CUBELA was attending the Alliance -

” Francaise in Paris at the time. It uwas © .
learned the French were unilaterally 2 Tes
‘survéilling CUBELA whereupon we advised
them” our contact with him wasan attempt
to“défect him. On 15 October CUBELA insisted po
| that he meet U.S. Attorney General Robert. J
Kennedy because he believed Kennedy ran Cuban |
j affairs. "“Sanson's" position at the time was:
“We do not consider CUBELA is working for us
“but since we have a common objective, we are
willing—te—render-su Terns ei
: . 'CUBELA went on vacation and on his return, :
a —_ on 29 October 1963, it was arranged for

   
      
  
  
   
 

 

— ™ Desmond FitzGerald, tinder thé fame. "James
: : jClark", to meet CUBELA at Stent's home that
ST ey Sa —emise: ~ the-petiey—Level_of.c
. “;the Government. Clark" made the following -
er tatement——The-U.S, is prepared to rend

 

. . all necessary assistancé to any anti-Comm
so _Cuban group which succeeds in neutralizing:
“the present Cuban leadership and assumes :
‘sufficient control to invite the U.S. to render |
‘the assistance it is prepared. to give."Clark! °°
assured CUBELA of moral support for any OO
activity in this direction which CUBELA might

SECRET

  
74-0000

as)

ran 4
nO .

2 SET

. wether o

 

PERATIONAL SUMMARY: 7. The highlights of CUBELA'S reaction to this

proposal were:
_a. The majority of the Cuban people are
.against.Castro, but mainly because of fear they
did nothing about it. Castro's primary support
comes from the young teenage militia group.’

-. b. Many high ranking military officers are
anti-Communist and many are. convinced Castro must
go but they are afraid. to organize or even talk
against Castro to other people. This fear and
Castro's control of the Government apparatus
(security, military, defense committee,. economy,
etc.) make it extremely difficult to organize a
coup against him. oe

e. If Castro falls, the military will
probably break up into four or five groups...
Without Castro, the present regime will dis-
integrate. Unless there is. strong and immediate
support, the situation can easily become chaotic.
Nothing of an operational nature was discussed
at this meeting, After the meeting, CUBELA.

‘stated he was satisfied with the policy discussion
but he now desired to know what technical support
we could provide him. oO o

8. On 19 November 1963 it was decided at
Headquarters that- we would advise CUBELA
would receive a cache inside Cuba. If he
‘requested it, the cache would include sabotage
material, C-4 and equipment, high. power rifles
with scopes, hand grenades, pistols, etc.

“9. On 22 November 1963, "Sanson" met CUBELA who
_ asked for 20 hand grenades, two high powered
rifles with scopes and approximately 20
pounds of C-4 and related. equipment in the

cache. He had refused to carry any in-

— | eviminating eyuiipment—with<him on his—ceturn

 

to Cuba. CUBELA_spoke again abou and
nis concern tor[ secur Se ae never
been admitte BELA that was “

recruited by |. When thé mééting broke up,
“"Sansou"-and=CUBELA-were—~informed ahowt
; President Kennedy's assassination. CUBELA was
—eisibty moved and asked: "Why do such things
“happen to good people?" At this as weil’ as
earlier meetings, CUBELA was given small sums
of money to cover personal expenses. -

 
  

Stoney

Dat) aran 4.

 

  
