Letter to Mr. Bernard H. Martin

the Agency to object to release of its information contained in
documents originated by other agencies or departments. The
resolutions should provide that the agencies which originate

‘information have the opportunity to review that information

prior to its release. Otherwise, an anomalous situation could
be created in which documents originated by the Executive
Branch would be withheld while documents originated by Congress
containing the same Executive branch information would be
released.

The resolutions! broad definition of "assassination
material” is also troublesome. The resolutions define :
“assassination material® as a record that relates “in any
manner or degree to the assassination.” This unbounded
definition could cover a range of material beyond that which
has been traditionally associated with the JFK assassination.
This broad definition, coupled with the Review Board's powers
to request additional information from Executive agencies, and
the fact that the Board makes the determination of what is
assassination material, could lead to a new investigation of
the assassination, rather than review of existing files for
declassification purposes. Such an inquiry could well stray
into sensitive areas that are unrelated to the assassination.

The question of proper scope of the Review Board's charter
is a difficult one, and we do not mean tog suggest that
reasonable requests for materials shouldadenied simply because
they were not made by a previous Presidential Commission or -
Congressional Committee. However, there should be a provision
whereby Board requests for additional materials that an agency
believes are unrelated to the assassination could be ; .
appealed-~perhaps to the President.

The resolutions contain no provision requiring security
clearances or secure document handling by the Assassination
Materials Review Board or its Executive Director/staff
elements. Absent security procedures and facilities that met
Executive branch standards, agencies would be unable to provide
Classified assassination materials to the new body or its staff.

The resolutions provide a 30 day. period for appealing
decisions by the Executive Director to release information.
This may not provide sufficient time for meaningful review of
what could prove to be large volumes of material at one
time--particularly where some documents may require
coordination with other agencies. We suggest that the
 

(04-10334-10210

° Central intelligence Agency

 

DRAFT

 

ys Agel 1992

Mr. Bernard H. Martin

Assistant Director for
Legislative Reference

Office of Management and Budget

Washington, D.C. 20503

Dear Mr. Martin:

This is in response to your request for the views of the
Central Intelligence Agency on Senate Joint Resolution 282, the
“Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992", and the
corresponding House Joint Resolution 454 (“the resolutions").

The Central Intelligence Agency fully supports the
fundamental premise underlying this. legislation--that efforts
should be made to declassify and make available to the public
as expeditiously as possible government documents relating to
the assassination of President Kennedy. In fact, the Director
of Central Intelligence (DCI) has recently established and
staffed a new unit within CIA responsible for review and
declassification of documents of historical interest, including
the JFK-related files, as part of the Agency's program of
increased openness. However, several provisions of the
resolutions raise serious concerns, as outlined below, and CIA
cannot Support them as currently drafted. Our comments will
focus upon specific CIA concerns; many general issues raised: by
the resolutions are better addressed by the White House or the
Department of Justice. ~

Initially, the resolutions are focussed on “records” rather
than the information contained in them. We are concerned that
the Agency would not have the opportunity to object to release
of CIA information contained in documents originated by
Congress or the Warren Commission. Under the resolutions,
documents originated by these entities can be released by the
Executive Director of the Assassination Materials Review Board
without any review by the President or other Executive Branch
agencies. Similarly, there is no mechanism that would allow
Letter to Mr. Bernard H. Martin

resolutions be amended to provide that agencies may file for an.
automatic 30 day extension to consider whether an appeal-is
necessary before material is publicly disclosed.

We believe that the Executive Director of the Review Board

‘ should have substantive expertise with respect to protection of

intelligence or law enforcement information readily available
so that the initial decisions on whether to release documents
are made on an informed basis. Under the resolutions, neither
Board members nor the Executive Director may be government
employees or have any background in the assassination
investigations. Because of this restriction, these individuals
are unlikely to have any familiarity with the documents at
issue and may well have no expertise in intelligence or law
enforcement equities. While the Executive Director may request
detailees from Executive agencies and may consult with

_ originating agencies, there is no requirement that he do so.

An Executive branch agency with knowledge of the information at
stake and potential harms (or lack thereof) likely to result
from release of the information may have no involvement in the
process until after an initial determination has been made to
disclose the information. Requiring that the staff informally
consult with agencies originating the information or mandating
detailees from the affected agencies (within reasonable
limits--particularly if details are to be nonreimbursable)
would ensure that relevant expertise is brought to bear as part
of the initial decision-making process.

The Board's broad powers to subpoena witnesses and
documents and hold hearings under the resolutions could
conflict with the DCI‘'s statutory duty to protect sensitive
intelligence. sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure.
We believe the Board should be required to consult with the DCI
on issues like whether a hearing should be closed, or whether a
subpoena could be narrowed, if intelligence equities are
involved. Disagreements could be appealed to the President.

Section 6 of the resolutions, which outlines the grounds
for postponement of public release of a document; may not be
adequate to protect Agency interests in certain respects. For
example there is no provision for postponing release of
Executive privilege/deliberative process, attorney-client, or
attorney work-product information. Such privileges could
always be waived in the public interest, but as the resolutions
are currently drafted, they would be wholly unavailable.
Letter to Mr. Bernard H. Martin

While such privileges are not likely to arise with respect to
factual information directly related to the JFK assassination,
they could well arise with respect to other documents swept up
in the resolutions’ broad definition of assassination
materials. We also believe that “intelligence agent" under
section 6(1)(A) of the resolutions should be defined with
reference to the Intelligence Identities Protection Act so as
to protect the identity of covert employees of the Agency.

The Congressional oversight mechanism established for Board
activities also may conflict with the existing rules for
oversight of intelligence activities. The resolutions provide
for congressional oversight of the Review Board and its :
activities. by the “appropriate" House committee and the SSCI,
although we have reason to believe that the resolutions may be
amended to remove the SSCI from oversight responsibilities.
Under the resolutions, the committees would obtain copies of
all material that were not released. Thus, the resolutions are
likely to involve non-intelligence oversight committees in the
review of sensitive CIA information that would not be released
to the public. Congress enacted the Intelligence Oversight Act
of 1980 in part to reduce the number of congressional
committees with access to sensitive CIA information. Expanding
the number of committees with access to our information would
be of concern, especially if the Review Board seeks new
documents minimally-related to the assassination.

Finally, each resolution specifically provides that it does
not affect FOIA actions. We would suggest that the resolution
explicitly stay responses to FOIA requests related to
assassination materials while the Review Board is conducting
its business. The resolutions clearly have a more liberal
standards for public disclosure of information than does the
FOIA, and the public is likely to get assassination materials
more expeditiously if agencies are permitted to focus their
resources on supporting the work of the Review Board.

; We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the

i i materials resolutions. Please contact
nl my staff at (703) 482-6126 with any
questions or comments concerning the Agency's position
on these resolutions.

Sincerely,

Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs
