 

   

corted Entry ints MGR Auli
Gescribing his first dey at work, >
the Pess Office, where he obtained 4 visitor's
eatry of the building tio. Z, where his pass was checked
guards, ard then went un ortea to KOBULOV'S office on
fioor, Challe: on this ocint, he said he was sure tt
possible to enter without an escort. In fact, it was
impossible to go throuch «ony entry of Muildi No, 2 without
escort if you did net have a properly etempou KOU (M/D) identity
document (see below).

 
  
 
  
  
 

  

  

   
    

  

    

 
     
 

   

KGB, Ee was thea esxed if there va:
tion with this coctunent that tine.
nething unusual. He was
and agein after hEKIYA's
stanps placed in the ide aligare them. With-
out the right stamp it was > the KGB sailding.
NROSENKO was ignorant of this and was unvble to recall aiything
ebout it despite @ number of hints #nd le ng questions. Actu-
ally, during the perisd of upheaval following SEALIN's death and .
acain after BERIYA's arrest, ell Kib isenciaty documents were tea
porarily withdrawn in order to have spetial validation s:amps
pleced in them, and it was literally impossible to get in the

KGB Luiléings if one did not have the right stomp. This wes the
subject of numerous aneccstes at the time and is hard to believe
that an officer «he served in the KGB at the time covld have for-
gotten it completely.

   
    
 
 
    
  
  
 

 

  

    

 

"Gastronom: Asked to describe the sign in front of the KGB
-ZOnOM: g
Club, NCSENKO said that he did not remember any sign (there was

one in 1953) but mentioned that there was a Gastronom (food store)
next to the KGB Club. Asked when the Castroncm was cpened, he
said firmly that 1¢ was already there when he started to work

in the KCB. In fact, this Gastronem was definitely no: there es
of 1954. It was opened someti.e ketween 1955 and 1957, as Moscow
Gireczorics show. The K5# Club is in ertry Ne. 1 of Building

No. 12, Dzerzhinskiy Square, and XOSE.KO would have had to pass
it every day he vent to work.

 

"Chief Directorate of Militia: Asked where the Chief Direc-
torate of Militia of the ER was located in 1953-54, NOSENKO
replied that he did not know, and knew only that later it was
located on Ulitse Ogareva. Actually, in 1953-54 it was located
next to the main KGs building at Dzerzhinskiy No. 2. A staff
officer in the ccunterintelligence directorate would have fre-
quent occasion to deal with the Chief Directorate of Militia.

 
 

"K.1. (Committee of Information): Asked where the Intelli-
gerce Directorate of the MVD was lccated in 1953, NOSEXKO replied
that it was scattered between Dzerzhinskiy No. 2, the Acricultural
Exhibition, the K.1. building, and Kiselniy Pereulok. This is
a confused and incorrect answer. Asked for clarification, NCOS-
ENKO said that he had never yisited either the K.I. or the First
Chief Directorate building at the Agricultural Exhibition. Thus,
NOSENKO seems to be unaware that the K.I. has not existed since
1951, and that the K.I. pbuilding and the building at the Agri-
cultural Exhibition were one and the same place.

 
104-10210-10032

 

 

Second

"ROSENKO claimed te havt become a member ar the Korisomol
Cryanization (K/O) cf the K3S when he entered on duty in March
19£3, to heve been elected as Secretary of Kou Ol OUrgenization
of the Second Chief Directorace in the £211 of 53, and to have

 

: served in that capacity until the fall of 1954,
. meved because he used operational-alias cocuments in obtaining
treatment for 8 venereal disease he 432 incurred. Ee claims to
have been excluded from the k without prejudice, when he
attained his 27th dirchday in Cstober 1°54.

 

  
  

 

ta

“Asked to descrile how ne transfierre® from the Komsomol Crgan-
ization of the Naval TIntelligen.: * in the Baltic to the Kom-
somol Crgenization of the KGS, N J gave an entirely incorrect
Gescription of this procedure, both as regards Geregistration from

’ ’ the K/O in the Baltic, and registretion with the */O in the KGB.
He stated that he «ss issued a new Momsomol reg.stration card by
the KGB K/O, withcut reference to the previous x/O in the Baltic;
this is impossible.

   
 
 

 

"NOSENKO géve an incorrect account of how a “.") secretary is
elected, steting that he was elected at a meeti:...:of the K/O. In
fact, the K/O meeting can only select the K/O ccxmittee, which will
convene separately to elect the Secretary.

 

“3OSENKO could nut descrite the duties of a X/O secretary in a
specific manner.

"“NOSEXKO did not know who was the secretary of the overall KGB
K/O. The secretary of the SSD K/O would be directly subordinate
to him and would deal with him frequently.

“NOSENKO was unable to describe his dealings with the KGB K/c
or the identities or responsibilities of the people with whom he
dealt there.

"NOSENKS insisted that in 1993-54, the maximun age for a Kom-
somol member Was 27. in actual fact, the maxi age was 26 (it
was raised later). This point is important, both because NOSE?)
should know exactly if he hed served as a K/O secretary, and also
because it refutes his story that he wes excluded from the Kom-
somol for over-age in 1954.

 

“NOSENKO maintained that a)] the members of his K/O paid dues
i in the amount of 2 percent. of their monthly salaries. This is
: incorrect, as monthly Komsomol cues were calculated on a sliding
scale determined by wage group: at that time, Komsomol members
earning up to 500 rubles monthly paid 0.5 percent: those earning
500 to 1550 rubles paid 1 percent, and those earning over 1500
rubles paid 1.5 percent. The K/O secretary collects the dues,
and must know the right amount.

“NOSENKO did not know whether or not a Komsemol Congress
- took place while he was K/O secretary, saying that they took
plece every year. In actual fact, the 12th Komsomol Concress
which convened in March 1954 was the first since 1948; at this
12th Congress a numter of changes were made in the Komsomol Rules
(Ustav). As secretary of a K/O NOSENKO would have been involved

 
"NOZRINO's cesceription ©
Signed when entering on duty 4

 
 
 
 

the agreement that was in use et
“It may Le significant that NO s
agreement he recalls signing resem
that were taken from agents.

“HOSENKO insists that he did not fill cut any other forms,
questionnaires, Or papers whea entering the KGB, Actually, chere
were a number of other routine forms thet nad to ke filled out by
applicants ard new employees.

   

“Location of ROS
entry processing was mnel officer named ROZHEN-
KO and his staff. He asserts thet * NKO's office, which NOS-
ENKO visited several times in early 1953, was located on the 6th
floor, 8th entry, Building No. 12, ureczhinskiy Street. In fact,
neither ROZHENKO nor any officers or units of the Personnel De-
partment, were located in the Bth entry. They were all (including
RUZHENKO) located on the 6th and 7th flcors of the 7th entry of
Building No. 12.*

NKO's Of fice: NUSENKO says that all his

al

   
  

"Rank Pay: Asked about his salary when he first started to
work in the KGB, NOSENKO said he get a basic selary:of 1700 rubles
zs a case officer, 500 rubles for his renk of lieutenant, plus
secrecy, languace, and longevity pay. fe insisted that this was
correct, even when told that KSB officers wer? no longer being
paid for rank in March 1953, and said thst although he remembered
that there was cne year--i954--when they were not paid for rank,
he was sure that when he first entered or duty he received this
pay. Salary for rank was taken away from State Security officers
in September 1952 ard was not restored until April 1954.

“Promotion to Senior Lieutenant: In giving the chronology
ef his promotion to various military ranks, NOSENKO claimed to
have keen promoted to senior lieutenant in April 1953, shortly
after joining the KGB, Told that this was impossible, and that
--mo one in the KGB was promoted at this time. NOSENKO replied that
he couldn't say about anyone else but he was sure that he had re-
ceived his promotion at that time. In fact, this is impossible:
all promotions in the KGB vere frozen from the time BERLYA took
over as minister (March 1953) until lete 1953.

“Visitor's Fass Procedures: In talking about his first visit
to the KSB to process for employment, NUSENKO was unable to re-
call the procedures employed by the KGB Pass Office in issuing
visitor's passes. Specifically, he maintained that the name of
the interviewer was not indicated on the pass. In fact, the
name of the interviewer did appear on the pss and the inter-
viewer head full responsibility for the visitor while he was on
KGB premises. While it is understandable that NOSENKO might
have forgotten the detai ls involved if he had only visited there
a few times more than ten years ago, if he worked at KGB Head-
quarters for over ten years as a staff officer and particularly
as a supervisor he would have frequent occasion to admit visitors,
and thus should know visitor's pass procedures guite well.

we

. P
*NOSENKO has since said that he spoke to no personnel cfficers
prior to acceptance by the KG + afterwards, thereby indicating
that his statements to DERYABIN were untrue. See Part V.38.

 

 
104-10210-10032 oe

"iD Leadership, 1253-54: Asned to rare the cnefs on the
r

directorates and separate departments of th: rder BERIYA
ang KIUGLOV, NOSENKO naned mine cut of cd.
the Chief of che Inte¢liicence Dire tor:
bereé only SPKHAROVSKLY (PANYUSHKIN was chied unt
to naxwe KRUGLOV's ceputies, HOSES. only ROMASHKOV and
SEROV, and was ignorant of such prominent deputies as LUSEV and
SHATALIN. Told that a Secretary cf che Central Committee of the
CPSU was one of KRUGLOV's deputies at this time (SEATALLN) , NC
ENKO flatly denied that this was possitle,

  
  

     
 
   

 
 

  

  

   

“Organization of kSU: NOSERKG did not know when tne KGL was
organized (March 1954 He said that it was in early 1955 or
Yate 1954, Yold that he was a year off and asked to think it
over, NOSENKO insisted that he was right.

   
 

 

"Processing Procedures for Enploynent with KGB? NOSERKO'S
story about how he S processed tor emp} ent with the KGE in
1953 is inconsistent with the procecures used ut that time. He
does not know many of the things tnet he should know about cr-
trance procedures; he is wrenrg about many of the things that he
Claims to remember. The dispsrities ere So great that they can-
not te explained (as NOSENKU attemprs to do) by the claim that
KOEULOV's recommendation resulted in a simplified entrance pro-
cedure for NOSENKO,

   

 

"The most important document filled cut by prospective em-
ployees of Soviet State Security is a detailed personal history
questionnaire, called in Russien Anketa sp Inogo naznachentya
sotruéniks KGH. fnis exhaustive que tionnaire is 16 paces long,
and filling it out is an experience that onc is not likely to
forget. A background investigation is run on the basis of this
questionnaire, which itself becomes a permanent and prominent
feature of the employee's personnel file. NOSENKO remembers
filling out a questionnaire, but Goes not knew its designation.
He asserts that it was only 4-6 pages long. He agserts that he
filled it out at heme, and submitted it in two copies shortly
before entering on duty. Actually, tnis questionnaire was re-
quired in one copy only, and was never permitted to ke taken
home since it was a classified document (even when not falled
in).*

  

   

“KOSENKO insists that he did not have to take a medical exam-
inetion prior to entering the KG3. This is not possible. Such
an examination was a routine and mandatory part of the processing.
I cannot think of any instance in which it would be waived.**

a

*¥ DERYABIN's views are bascd on NOSENKO's statements in August
1965. In his criginal bicgraphical statement (1962), NOSENKO
said that no anketa was required. He implied as much in his
most recent statement in April 1966, after being questioned
by DERYABIN., This statement is given in Part V.E.

 

**See remarks above concerning NOSENKO's alleged treatment for
tuberculosis from 1952 to 1958. :

 
104-10210-10032

@. The shocting incident in Leningrad “Guriag Worla
War II and his desertion from the N 1s 1 in Baku
would have played a very negative role in consideration
of his acceptance into State Security.

  

f£. Subject never completed high school in the normal
fashion. :

g. Subject was a poor student at the Institute of Inter-
national Relations.

 

he. Its ld be added that the XGi woild definitely
know that. HO O was involved in an automobile accident
in i847 and was interrogated hy the Mil:cia (traffic court),
found guilty, and fined. This would definitely play a
negative role in NOSE.:O0's admission to the KGB.

 

i. NOSEIKO would never ke allowed to. enter the KGB having
just recovered from tuberculosis.” In fact, there was a rule
At that time that no person who ever had turerculesis (even
twenty years earlier) would he permitted to work in the KGB.

“In addition, after acceptance, the fact that KJDULOV was a
personal friend of Subject's father, as he has told us, would
heve keen noted in the file and would have playea a negative role
in permitting Subject to continue to work in Scate Security after
KOBULOV's errest in June 1953.

"I asked Subject how he answered some of the questions in the
anketa (entry questionnaire), particularly the «uesticns on his
former wife, her relatives, and on his mother ancestry.”* I
then asked Subject how it was, taking into account his mother's
aristocratic ancestry, the fioct that her father died in jail, the
Trotskyite allegations against Subject's fat the fact that
Subject's former father-in-law (TELECI™N) still in jail, and
the fact that Subject was present when Tz S apartunent was
sSearched--that he had been accepted into the KGS, parsicularly
in 1953 Curing the confusion and changes afcer the death of STALIN,
Subject admitted that the question was lo. al, and said that he
could only assume that the influence of F SV and the important
and influential position of his own father outweighed these neg3-
tive factors, He also cited his GRU experience in tnis connection.

a

"I then asked Subject how he had reported his second marriage

to the KG3. He replied that before the aiarriage he hed mentioned

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

—

* NOSENKO first mentioned having had tuberculosis during the June
1962 meetings, when he described it as a minor case but said he
was under out-patient treatment until 1958. He next mentioned
his illness in 1966, describing how he sometimes coughed up a
“glass of blood" at a time, Although DERYASIN's questioning
covereé this part of NOSENKO's life in detail, there was no
mention of tuberculosis in July and August 1965. DERYABIN's
comment is based on the 1966 informaticn but is included here
for purposes of context.

**The anketa and DERYABIN's questioning on this subject are dis-
cussed further below.
 

619,
it briefly to GORBALLNKO, anc that he hae unofracially run = name
check on his prospective brize (which wes ‘clean';, and that afcer
the marriage he tad fillei out enotke: in which he included

  
     

all the required data on his wife aad 1. latives, Aégter con-
siderable prompting, Subject fatd that he had indicated thet she
and her parents had been in France, but that he red concealed the
fact that her grandmother had been in German-oceupied territory
during the war, (He admitted thet the XCB would have learned this
in 2 routine check, nowever.) 1 then reviewed for Subject the
negative security factors mentioned etove, adding the arrest of
KCBULOV, the fact that his new wife and her perets had keen
abroad, the fact that her grerémotner was in rman-occupied
territory, the fact that Subject was row ove ge for the Komsomol
but not yet a Party menber or candidate, and the fact thet Subject
received a 15-day sentence for misuse of cover dacuments and in-
curring venereal disease, an’ asked if he didn't think that his
personnel file had been reviewed in 1954, and i£ so, what grounds
there could have been for retaining him in the “GH. Subject said
that he thought that his file probably was reviewed but that

again the influence of his father had saved him. Subject added
that cnother important factor was procably his language qualifi-
cation and particularly his hicher education. I. pointed out to
Subject that if his second wife and her parents hed been abroad 3
it was impossible that her nare check could have been negative. :
He admitted it was illogical, but insisted that this was so.

 

   

 

 

 

"NOSENKO's Knowleage of K38, 1955-54

 

“Entry Date into KGB: NCSENKO wes reminded that he had pre-
viously given varying dates for his entry on duty in the KC3d. He
replied that he did not remember the act Gate, but he was sure
that it was in the midd!e of March 1253 - perhaps 13 er 15 Merch
(15 March 1953 was a Sunday). He woulé give no explanation for
why he previously claimedc to have ced « KGB in .- .
1952.* in fact it would ko very 3a] for a KGB officer to
ferget his exact entry-on-duty Cate to the very day because it
is used to compute length of service end must ke entered on vari-
ous forms from time to time.

 

    

   
  

 

 

“Numerical Lesicnation of the int lli¢
gence Directorates in 1953: A ed what directorates
existed in tne M¥D while BENIYA was Minister (March-June 1953),
NOSENKO named the First Chief Directcrate (FCD) ard the Second
Chief Directorate (SCD) which he seid were the intelligence and
counterintelligence directorates respectively. Asked if he were
sure, NOSEIKO said he was positive, end that the only change that
i took place was that later, under KRUGiOV, for a few months only,

. : the FCD keceme the SCD, ard vice versa. NOSENKO stuck to this
even when told he was wrong; he did not say he did not know or

i aid not remember, perhaps realizing that he covld not claim not

i to remember what directorate he served in. (Actually, the change
in numerical designations was instituted by BERIYA right after

: STALIN's death in March 1953 and persisted until the KGB was

bo organized in March 1954. Thus, NOSENKO does not know what the

L correct Gesignation of his own directorate was at the time that

i he allegedly entered on duty with Soviet State Security and for

! the entire first year of his alleged service there.

 

ce_and Counterintelil-

  
  
 

   

 

 

—_——_—
* HOSENKO on other occasions has given various reasons why he
told CIA that he joined the KGB in 1952, See Part V.B.
AO4-10240-10032 rence

61S.

 

B. Views of Intell:gerce Fez
1. Statement by DERTAARLN
@. Introduction

Former KGB officer Peter Sergeyevich DERYABIN has followed
closely the entire course of CIA's investigation of NCSENKO and
his information. He took pert in the interregations of NOSRIKU
in April 1964, January-February 196%, and Cctober 1966 as an 9b-
server and consuitent, and he personally estioned NOSENKO during
July and August i$¢5 concerning cert3in as of bis personal
past and early kS2 career. On th sis ef his direct, personal
knowledge of conditions #iti Union and of KS organi-
zation ard procedures prior te his cefectios; in February 1954,

~-ttupplemerted by ¢ inuing study of lat ation trom a
| variety of sources, VERYABIN is uf x at much oc wnat

 

 

   

   

   

 

   
  
   
  
  
    

 

 

NOSENKO has said about himself ant purposefully false
4-or distorted. Although DEXYARIN able to offer authorita-
tive c ny aspects of bk story, the follesing
sectyon of is Limited rks concerning OSEN-
KO's entry into the XS3 (then nist Party affili-
ation, both of which fall into the period wh ERYABIN was active
as a KGB (then Mvu) staf’ officer. DERYAGIN personally intesro-
gated NOSENKO on these topics in the sumuer ef 1965. Since DER-
YABIN #as a personnel officer of the KGS (then “GB and MVD) in
Moscow, with long experience in Cervaunist Party activities, at
the time NOSENK.O claims to have enterea the American Departmen:
of the KG3 Second Chief Directorate, he is parcicularly qualified
to comment on these aspects of hOS "Ss story.

   
 
 
  
  
 

 

  

  

  

 

  

 

 

DERYABIN, as a Soviec Army officer. «as Gracuated in 1945
from the higher counterintelligence schoo: of Srersh (counter-
intelligence with the Soviet Ari rees). Following this he
worked in Naval Smersh in Moscow a arch 1947 began to work
jin the HGB as a case officer in the Central Persunnel Direct
Shortly efterwards, when his superior was appointed Deputy Chi
of the Chief Guards Directorate for Fersonnel, DERYASIN trans- a
ferred with him to the Guards Directurate. @ served as a Guards
Directorate personnel officer until May 195 rising through the
ranks from case officer to the position cf Chief of Section. One
of his responsibilities was the approval of personne] for service
in various units of the Guards Direcrorate, and he was also in
charge of Supervising pers mnel and security matters concerning
one of the Directorate's surveillance sub-sections.

   
 
 

 

 
   

 

 

After requesting a change fron personnel to operational
@uties, DERYABIN wss transferred ir. May 1952 to the Austro-Germen
Department of the MGB Foreign Intelligence Directorate. Until
December 1952 he served as the Deputy Chief of a sub-section in
the Counterintelligence Sektor (desk) of the Austro-Gerzan Depart-
ment. He was then appointed Deputy Chief of the Intelligence
Sektor of the same department, e position he heid until March
1953. From March until September 1953, DERYAPIN was the Leputy
Chief of the section in MGB Hesdquarters which was responsible. --
for the security of Soviets stationed in Austria and Germany. :
In September 1953 he was transferred to Vienns, «here he became
Deputy Chief of the section in the 'VD Legal Residency respons-
ible for the security of Soviets in Austria. He cefected to
American authorities on 15 February 1954.

 
TEecrystingrameie icbinweinmpemetnintecei: cin nara tatyte/ sr mcannslahtiah amet eat aces ct teen inserted De

  

 

104-10210-10032
vos ) MATERIAL YF IEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS LY
| MOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OX ASSASSINATIONS STAFF WEMBEPS ;

 

 

 

;
i
H
4
i

 

“SDAP Naransarceare sie ese eans

 

FILE TITLE/KUNBER/VOLUME:_/—7C0/} 83 f STLDV DER AR a

 

 

Records Collection Act of 1992
- (44 USC. 2107 Note)

CUSTODIAL UXIT/LOCATION: SHLK NW 53216 6/17/17

INCLUSIVE DATES:

 

ROOM ¢

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

 

 

 

DATE DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED| REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
pp hee 0¢ hen Sot Noes S$ ok

‘
KO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE j
;
i
:

BEPROVED Fem RELEASE 1904 |
_— CURISTORICAL REVIEW PRoceam +

shal

 
 

a” Sy Mie a
pe eetn ne mentee cme Pte o
eaten ceimeeaatnntetettnn fe? Sm enemy pe tetra

 

104-10210-10032

.

a

et vote
DLRYALCLA joined
until 1940, when he 5
Party of the Soviet Party member in
August 1941, During 11s Party carcer he held a number of respensi-
ble posts. Péfore the war, «hen DEXYABIN was a teacher in Altay
Kray, he was the Secretary of a local FKomsemol unit and simultan-
eously served as a member of the Komsomo}) Plenum in the reyon
where he lived. From October 1940 until November 1941 he was
Secretary of the Komsomol Committee of the 107th Engineer Batt&lion
of the Red Army and from June 1945 until April 1946 held the: same
position in the Komsomol Committee of the Naval Smersh. This was
the unit which had particular responsibility for counterintelli-
gence work within the Naval GRU, which NUSENKO said he joined in
1951. In the MGA DERYABIN wee a member of the Party Committee of
ij the Personnel Section of the Suards Directorate and, after his
transfer, was eiected Secretary of the Parry Suxeau of the Austro-
German Department of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. He held
this post from January 1953 until his transfer to Austria in Sep-
tember 1953. .

   

   

b. DERYASIN's Comments

The following statements by DERYASIN are based on his question-~
ing of NOSENKO Eextween 26 July and 13 august 1965, The questions
asked an2 the statements attricuted to NOSENKO (referred to as
fucject) were during this period. Alth ti the soviet State Sesu-
rity Service did not become known as ¢ G8 until March 1954,
this term is used for convenience sake, except where the specific
organization of the MSB or MVD as under discussion. DERYADIN's
comments follow:

  
 

 

“NOSENKO's Acceptance into State Security*

3 “Taking NOSENKO's own statements at face value, it is hithly
improbable that a person such as he has described himself to be
would be acceptable for a position as a staff officer in State
Security. The following factors are importance in this regard:

a. It was the policy of State Security to avoid hiring
the children ef high goverrwent officials.

b. Until STALIN's death in March 1953, KOBULOV, the
man who supposedly helped NCSEXKO gain €ntrance into the
service, had no influence inside the 2453 apparatus. From
about 1948 until 9 or 10 March 1953, KOaULOV had no office
inside the MGB cr the MVD buildings. I know personally that
in these years KOBULOV worked in Germany as Deputy Chief of
the GUSIMZ (Chief Directorate of Soviet Properties Abroad) **
which was once directly under the Council of Ministers and
later under the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The office was
loceted-on Chkalova Street, near the Kurskiy Railrvad
Station (three biocks from my former apartment).

* See also Part V.B.

** WISMUT A.G. in Germany was subordinate to GUSIMZ; for a
further discussion of KOBULOV's role in helpinz NOSENKO
join the KG3, see Part V.B.
104-10210-10032

617.

ce. It was physically impossible at the tine for NCSENKO
to be recomended for and accepte}? into State Security, es he
has told us, all an one month, March 1953. (If one accepts
his earlier version that he had his talk with KOBULOV in Jan-
uary or February, his account is similarly impossible because
KOBULOV was rot then in State Becuricy.) It would normally
have taken a much longer time, but in additicn to this it was
a period of reorganization and tne personnel staff was not
actively conducting their work at t time, and permanent
staff officers were not sure that they would retain their
positions.

 
 
 
  

  
 

 

&. In March 1953 NO: was already twenty-five and a
half years old and only a memter of the Komsomol. He had ro
recommendation fer Party membershim anc could net become a
member for a full year kecause of his transfer from one ser-
vice (GHU} to ancther. It is yimpossible that State Security
wouls eccept him knowing in advance tnat on his birthday re
would be twenty-six years ald and without cither Komsomol or
Party membership. Even for the sen of a Minister, the Secre-
tary of the Komsomol Comaitt.ee of the KGH would have to talk
with the Personnel Cffice and would not give a recommendation
for his acceptance, especially fer tre Internal Counterintel-
ligence (Secund chief) Directorate. in the case of a son of
@ Minister and cone who is recommended by KOBULOV, the secre-
tary would request from NOSENKO a recommer.dation for Party
membersaip from the members of the Communist Party where
NCSENKO used to work, in this case the GRU. In this way the
secretary of the Kemsomol would te sure himself that NOSENKO
would beccme a candidate member of the Communist Party during
the next year.

 

 

 

“However, even accepting that despite these obstacles and
contradictions the KGB would have accepted him, ore must also
remember (according to NOSENKO'S ewn statements) that NOSENKO's
file contained the following negative peints.* They are serious
factors end certain of them alone would be enough to cause the
rejection; the totality makes it difticult to pelieve that at a
time of crisis in the State Security orgens anyone would take the
responsibility of accepting h

 

a. Subject was already married and divorced before entry
into State Security.

b. He had been married to General TELESIN's daughter
and TELSSIN had been arrested by State Security and was in
jail the day that Subject entered State Security.

c. NOSENKO said that there was a file on NOSENKO's
fatner in which compromising material was collected on
Subject's family. NOSENKO agreed that one piece of infor-
Mation that would have heen in this file was the fact that
his maternal grandfather died in a Soviet prison while under
sentence as a counter-revolutionary.

a. The social status backcround in the life of Subject's
mother was novility.

* See also Part IV.B.

ta ne ar iaeracnpeune eager tntennn fel I pe Ata RG tit nat eA OTR AAP ETERS SPCR RN Aer RUNES
