 

[td t0440-10091 ;

 

_ Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel : oo, Page 10
ij. Tuesday - 8 November 1977

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a.telephone call
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations. .
' Subcommittee on International Operations, who was following up ona
request he made on4 November for a copy of the secrecy oath which .
- former DCI Richard Helms had signed. I told Mr. Glennon that I was
- checking this out with the appropriate elements of CIA and hoped | to.
; have 2 an answer for him by the following day. :

 

ao - G@nternal Use Only - PG) LIAISON ‘Spent the better part rs
“of the afterngon I in the Coordination & Review staff conference room: with ee
"Michael J. Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on... yee
International Organizations, House International Relations Committee. a
Also present were DDO representatives Evalina Vida .
| (for only the beginning of the meeting) and/ We discussed :
: the Subcommittee's request to make certain CLA information public:
_and Mr, Hershman gave us a summary he had prepared for the use of
-| Members at upeoming public hearings, © Mrd\_ will review the =:
\", summary and sanitize it as necessary. The remainder of the session -
.: Was spent in an exchange of views as to CIA's role in ongoing... _ ..
Congressional investigations of ‘ROK/KCIA and related subjects. . woe

  
   

 

  
   
 

. 39. (Internal Use Only - - RJK) ‘LIAISON Spoke with Let Cooke,
_ on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning _
' William R, Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works .. -
for the Rand Corporation, . Since Harris has already been briefed at
_ _Rand on compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for him to
" . receive a briefing on them at this time. Jack Williamson, SO/ DCL, ..
has been advised. a .
‘Cooke also requested the clearances held by Professor G. Robert
Blakey,. ‘Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinati Gary Cornwell, of the stall, because :
review a sensitive Committee document, After checking with Dan Godar, :
OS, I advised him that they had their Proper clearances for reviewing
the documents. . oe : oo

40. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Spoke w with Betsey Wolf,
‘House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, and offered to send to ~
her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document
was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents _
involving the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. ;
| 14047

 
