13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

wet tong after his long suffering but devoted aide,
"Scotty" Miler, decamped to New Mexico, a young writer
interested in CIA contacted Angleton. Aaron Latham holds a
doctorate in literature from Princeton and in 1975 was
editor of New York magazine. He was attracted to Angleton
because of the latter's association with Ezra Pound and
other American poets. A two-hour initial call to Angleton
resulted in luncheon and visits to Angleton's home and
orchid sheaf. Latham wanted to write about the CIA and

Claims he took the fiction route on the advice of Victor

Marchetti. Whatever the case, the result was a novel called

Orchids for Mother published in 1977. The novel is heavily
loaded with atrocious sex, but the main theme is about an
old ex-CIA officer fired by the Director over differences in
policy. The dismissed CIA man (Angleton) decides he must
rid the Agency of this DCI, obviously meant to be Colby,
which he accomplishes by hiring an assassin to kill him (the
old veteran) and then adroitly places the blame on the
Director, thus assuring the latter will be accused of
murdering his antagonist. The novel portrays Mother (the
curious name Latham gives Angleton, which he lifted from a
book by Miles Copeland) as a genius wasted by his dismissal
from service to suit the ambition of a grey bureaucrat whose
security as well as common sense is much in doubt. It is a
singularly vicious work. It did not sell well. Mrs.
Angleton called the book "garbage" and claimed her husband

never read it.

In the summer of 1977 Angleton developed a new forum
for his ideas when he and like-minded associates organized
the Security and Intelligence Fund (SIF) which was intended
to defend the US security and intelligence organizations and
incidentally raise money for the defense of two FBI officers
then under indictment by the Carter administration. In this

9
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

endeavor, Angleton was on surer ground. For starters, he
had the support of the large number of FBI retirees as well
as many from CIA. This was the period when the Pike and
Church committees in the Congress were in full cry and a
number of ex-intelligence people who believed Congress had
gone too far were rallying a defense. (David Phillips was
also starting the Association of Former Intelligence
Officers.) The drive by Angleton was very successful; over
$600,000 was raised and six months after its founding SIF
was reported to have more than 17,000 members. Angleton was
made chairman with his friends in senior positions. But
yeour soon after, the US Attorney General decided not to
pursue the prosecution of the FBI men and the reason for SIF
nore or less evaporated. Kygugnthelesss on converted it
into a forum by which he spread information about what he
saw as various forms of Soviet deception and it continued
into the next decade until, after Angelton's death and the

coming of glasnost, it withered away.

The publication of Legend in 1978 provided enormous
stimulus to the deception idea by suggesting the Soviet
defector, Yuriy Nosenko, had been sent by the KGB to provide
a cover story for Oswald. Epstein had made a small
reputation with an earlier book on the Warren Commission
called Inquest, which was generally well received because it
pointed out some obvious inadequacies in the Warren
Commission report. In Legend, Epstein wrote what in effect
were two books: one focused on Oswald's Marine career in,
Japan, his time in Russia and then his return to Ameriga,
while the second portrayed Nosenko as playing a key role“in
a major KGB deception operation intended to provide cover
for Oswald (and the Soviet government) as well as to negate
the effects of Golitsyn's revelations. As so much
Classified information could only have come from a person or
persons with intimate knowledge of the Nosenko case, blame
for the leakage naturally focused on Angleton and his

10
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

for negligence of duty. This task was given to his loyal
aide, N.S. Miler. Miler took on the job but found he was
his own researcher as well as secretary. Foreseeing a dim
future of virtual servitude, he took his family and withdrew

to remote New Mexico.

Angleton's activities in this period, while not
neglecting the idea of KGB penetration, focused more
immediately on his strong belief in the threat from the KGB
of deception and disinformation. To support this thesis he
continually raised the issue of Nosenko. Me idea hud

that caught fire amongst some of his supporters and led to a
sort of cottage industry in which many academics and think
tank specialists propagated the theory. Oddly, however,
Angleton's allies in Great Britain took a different line.
There they concentrated on KGB penetration largely because
events threw up some exceptional examples, such as Sir
Anthony Blunt. Because of the so-called Cambridge "Ring of
Five," public attention was more easily caught by the idea
of moles in Her Majesty's government. This eventually led
to much embarrassment for the Thatcher government,

culminating in the "Spycatcher" trial in Australia in 1986.

8
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

h

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

about sensitive operations by the CIA and the FBI that it
was generally agreed Epstein had a willing and knowledgeable
source, either a serving officer (which was thought
doubtful) or a retired person 6f4 sufficiently senior
Gusiticw that he had wide knowledge of operations against
the Sovi target both overseas and in the "U.S." Although
wea 1978 onward Epstein admitted on occasion he spoke
with Fapes Angleton, the retired former Chief of the CI
statt/ ‘he never admitted Angleton was his source. In fact,
Epstein, wisely perhaps, never sourced his articles nor his
book, leaving the reader in the dark as to how he came upon
such rare nuggets of sensitive information. Then in 1988,
with Angleton dead, Epstein in a new book called Deception
admitted that from 1977 onward he had obtained large amounts
ef highly classified information from Angleton, N.S. Miler,
Tennent H. Bagley and others who shared Angleton's beliefs.

,DCI William Colby in
\

late 1974, he had no thought of what he would do in his

When Angleton was dismissed by

retirement. For the (ifowing six months he spent part of
his time at Langley, assisting the new CI Staff by
introducing them to such persons as his defector friend,
Anatole Golitsyn. After a few months it became clear to
Angleton that he really had been dismissed and his future
with CIA was finished. The whole matter was a terrible
blow; he became embittered and at first withdrew into
alcohol. But quite soon people began to seek him out and he
began to formulate some ideas about the future. As he got
more attention from media people, he began to cultivate a
method of playing them off one against another, planting an
idea here and there amongst them. He changed his luncheon
venue from a local restaurant to the more politically
congenial atmosphere of the Army-Navy Club. ene~idéa~”
Angleton deveroped Sas ts (yaeetgBa counterattack fy the
Agency and, in particular, the new CI Staff by which he

A, lwus
would prove Lig weer their new approach ara indict then

7
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

pases - e : t i -

, by Nigel West. RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in
this study.

Intelligence by Corson and Trento. Definitely NOT
RECOMMENDED and NOT SUMMARIZED in this study.

Vig91 = : eton: e CIA!
Master Spy Hunter by Tom Mangold. RECOMMENDED and a

SUMMARY appears in this study.

VY 1992 - Molehunt: The Secret Search for Traitors That
Shattered the CIA by David Wise. RECOMMENDED and a>
SUMMARY appears in this study.

5
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

‘CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

Introduction

The year 1974 was a watershed in literature about the
CIA. aide to that time had been few books
critical of the Agency and they had been by outsiders,
usually professional journalists such as Wise and Ross.
Most books had been GAs neutral or even positive,
especially those written by former Agency officials such as
Allen Dulles and Lyman Kirkpatrick. But in 1974 a
disgruntled former Agency employee, Philip Agee, published

his highly critical book, Inside the Company: CIA Diary.
He was followed by others in quick succession: J. B. Smith,

John Stockwell, Victor Marchetti (with J. D. Marks), and R.
W. McGehee--placing highly confidential information in the
public see at sae TS made their disclosures
about subjectsVof which they had special knowledge gr.
interBat, but the cumulative effect was to breach the walls
of confidentiality deice had protected Agency operations and
personnel. Although the net effect was damaging, especially
in the case of Agee where his efforts were directed at
revealing the identities of officers serving abroad under
cover, this general scatter shot approach, while
distressing, did not reveal information about the most

sensitive operations, namely, those directed against the

main target--the Soviet Union and its intelligence organs.

In the mid-seventies this changed with the publication
of a series of magazine articles authored mainly by Edward
J. Epstein, a New York writer, which culminated with the
publication of his book in 1978 called Legend. The
articles, but especially the book, publicized for the first
time a series' of clashes within the Agency {both the cI
Staff and the Soviet Division} concerning the bona fides of
a defector from the KGB named Yuriy Nosenko. Epstein's
articles and his book contained so much detailed information

6
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

 

The review of counterintelligence literature, 1975 -
1992, which follows is not meant to include every book
published concerning espionage and/or counterintelligence
from the period 1975 until 1992. The object of this study
is to focus on a relatively small selection of books that
were influential because of the views they expressed and
the#t reasonable degree of historical accuracy eiged «
concentrate on the major counterintelligence issues of the
| period and age highlightea-Sy the vie WP of James Angleton
and Anatole Golitsyn, which from 1962 were a
compelling force in Western counterintelligence services.
(tne scope of the study is largely limited to books about the
American, British, and Canadian intelligence and security
services although it in some instances touches on countries
of Western Europe such as France, West Germany, Norway, etc.
d4 oo a“ Recent books such as Corson and Trento's Widows aze.eueiaded
because they are not reputable by even the generally low hia ,
standards of pide counterintelligence wetting. Scher works,
such as fRon Kessler's n Jor [Davia “Wise's The ae
Spy Who Got away Px Bye amie” t because some parts of their
stories are téetwmal jy doubtful and better surveys of these

 

complicated and sensitive events reside in the CIA records.

w 74 On the other hand, no studies exist on Angleton's efforts in uh ee

ra

retirement to spread this propaganda’ via such writers as wt t

A. yf
Epstein. Nor has fEner'd/been any analysis}done of how many

oF C/A
hot lie
OTE

we ‘

\ GQ A secrets of the British services became public knowledge,

og x , ranging from the Blunt case to the secret inquiry into Sir
7 iS Roger Hollis as putative Soviet spy. a: there are”

an instructive “lése6ns “in these ev bse ceview of what exists
of. in the public domain and how it got there nisl be helpful to

2
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

toll:
ra atl wale
 

fo4-fost-t0126

“He CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

DRAFT
May 1992

A_REVIEW OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE LITERATURE, 1975 = 1992
By Cleveland Cc. Cram

‘NOTE: Final version will have proper

page breaks, etc.

 

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

counterintelligence managers of the future who wish to avoid

some of the errors of the past.

“4977

L978

1978

1980

1981

Orchids for Mother by Aaron Latham. A novel about
Angleton. NOT RECOMMENDED.

Honorable Men by William Colby. Chapter on
Angleton's dismissal is RECOMMENDED.

Legend: The Secret World of Lee Harvey Oswald by
Edward Jay Epstein. NOT RECOMMENDED; A SUMMARY

appears in this study.

e H i xd Helms a e
CIA by Thomas Powers. NOT RECOMMENDED as portions
that deal with counterintelligence are inaccurate.

i : ive Who Spied for Russia by

Andrew Boyle. A SUMMARY appears in this study.

Wilderness of Mirrors by David Martin. A classic
strongly RECOMMENDED; a SUMMARY appears in this

study.

The Spike by Arnaud de Borchgrave and Robert Moss. A

novel about Angleton. NOT RECOMMENDED.

Shadrin: The Spy Who Never Came Back by Henry Hurt.
Despite many errors it is RECOMMENDED. A SUMMARY

appears in this study.

Their Trade is Treachery by Chapman Pincher.
RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

3
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
13-00000

?
‘

“ 1982 = s rei

V 1988

1988

- New Lies for Old by Anatole Golitsyn.

~ The Storm Birds: Soviet Post-War Defectors

CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT

3 ames Leslie Benne
RCMP Security Service by John Sawatsky.
and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

RECOMMENDED

~ A Matter of Trust: MI-5, 1945-72 by Nigel West.

RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

RECOMMENDED
only to learn what Golitsyn thought; no SUMMARY

appears in this study.

- The FBI/KGB War: A Special Agent's Story by Robert

J. Lamphere and Tom Shachtman. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED

and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

~ Spycatcher: the Candid Biography of a Senior

Intelligence Officer by Peter Wright with Paul
Greengrass. RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this

study.

~ The Spycatcher Trial by Malcolm Turnbull.

RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

~ The Spycatcher Affair by Chapman Pincher.

RECOMMENDED and a SUMMARY appears in this study.

: e s e War Between the KGB and the
CIA by Edward Jay Epstein. NOT RECOMMENDED but a

SUMMARY appears in this study.

by
Gordon Brook-Shepherd. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED, and a

SUMMARY appears in this study.

4
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN NOCONTRACT
