 

 

 

Incidental Pointa

O£ course, tho primary poine iseeshould there be a CRC?
two don't need it operationally and it. doesn't seem to have
ey’ eupport internally. HM. Tharpo'a points on this are good.
Any head Cuban group should be Cuban-formed, on a voluntary

: basis, not U. S$. pushed, -

You knew, Mostra said he had $25,000 of crc propaganda
_ money he. didn’t know what te do with. The only crc or rrp

 vegular prop work is weakly information bulletin: that costs

about $10=12,000 monthly, distributed throughout Latin America
to leading figures, a Protuguese edition for Bragil and te .
Cuban delegations in Latin America. Sonetinas they do ongeshot
actions (1.6., antieCommmist book published in Mexico). They
need guidanes to Spend what they already get.
i/6/Financs Just told mo that WAV called and said that
there was $25,000 lefe ovax from Last month's aduin support to
the group. (2 can only aveume this cane from Paula.) Therefore,
we could have sut September payment to #100,000. We ought t ‘
come
a, ta sind tm nen. omens for eegee So) parment.
We have indications that the salary pa to now are
virtually walfsre payments to political followers rather than
for value received ir anticCastro efforts. Can we afford to

keep these discredited leaders in pocket change?

 

 
 

 

 

Kent feels that Miro 1s tha beat of a poor lot; that

‘4f we have to SUDpOrt a Cuban exile Brouping, Miro, at present .

is the only choice,

 

 

 
 

SECTET

31 August 1961

- Goumonts. on Cuban Revolutionary Council

We have reduced the so-called civil section budgee.
(admin) te the Latest figure of $125, 000 for September.
Monthly admin costs for thie organization used to rum almost .
$180,000, if we included their so-called military section

(which was salaries primarily for military staf? reerulters,

rentals for offices, sedical,. etc.). Our dependency paye

ments are now at 9313, 700 monthly. Thia may increase slightly |

since we are resuaing. monthly payments te widewo ‘again after
their demp eum death benefit paymenta run Gut,
To date in FY 62 (including Septexher payments) I would

say we have expended on the CRC $1,208,775 for strictly de-

pendency payments and $466,000 for adain and related charges.

 

 

 

 
 

‘o4-10207-(0184

 
  

  

   
 

   

    
 

    

SENDEM WILL Gr
t NCLASSIFIED

es,
SSK Class: “ATion TOP ANO BOTTOM

t. FIDENTIAL
_ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEncy
- OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

   
    
 

 
 
 

  
   

 

 

FonM wa, 237 140),
HAPR SS may be used, AS Gowennseew: peering FCT SO de sagy
 

 

 

 

31 auguse 1961

tixo on 26 A ust ‘6L

 

_ Statanont: Miro! 8 claim to have Lined up fifteen orga ;

: nizations and independente for an enlarged CRC.

Coomen ts This: is usual claim of all leaders froa Garcia
Kohly. ‘The plain fscts are that any leader who can prove
efficlal U. 3. backing (policy and funda) will undoubtadly
bo able to Line ep backing since the man vith tho purse ving
the game. ¥8/4/Prop points out that Conte Aguero, for example,
is not working with tho CRC and doesn't intend to, unless ha
would Imow ths CRC is the organteation,

Oa the qusstion of funding the ‘Professional groups we 4 ;

mo

formed (DRE, DMR, ACJ, FORD, CFC) we stili feel we should do:

#0- In seria cases, it ia doubtful whethor they vould buy ont

. eontrel of funds, To date, they have done good work under our

direction and funding; whether they would do as wall affiliated
with the CRC is a question, In any ease, WAVE says they wild

try to keep Hiro a iitele more inforinad on the groups! activities.

On tha charge that Swan is under "Batistiano" managenent,

. this is false. AMPAIM@4, who was running it during che vtrike,

{9 being phased cut. The station may not reflect sufficient

1

 

 
 

 

Fite

Liberal thinking at present, but thie will be remodied in

' the immediate future, Conta Aguero will participate in

future programming. ‘We sea no reason why CRC control of

_ Swan would wake it any better inotrument against Castro.

Any problems oa payments te returnees can and should
be handled at WAVE, —
° Ye do not understand Miro's talk about a new invasion.
The question of the older military typea to go to “academies”

‘has been talked about vagualy in the past (raised, 1 think, |
‘with Chamberlain), but we've never seen this list given te

Goodwin,
The’ question of who contacts Miro ‘should definitely be
reeolved. b gather they (higher authorities, Tracy?) don't.

: Bane Chauberlain te continue, but should we get officlally
in. contact with Miro in ‘Miami? Mr, Goodwin should 80 direet

if desired, However, they do have ‘contact through their

_ Comptroller, Paula, te our finance people,

Might raise problem of the PRD within the CRC. I undere
steod Biasel thought this internal grouping should be broken
up and the organization be a CPC. Perhaps 1f Geodwin made this
4 pointe it would be done.

 

i
i
}
i
i
'
i
i

 

 
