 

 

eneieins re ivumeteat nd semaine mat ean nth resonant ene trata SER BONNE RNMISOEEED Laren. aSntATBA «+

tbe

 

47 NOY 375

MENORANDUM FOR: Frederick Randall
SUBJECT - 3 Quality Step Increase.
1. My congratulations on the award to you of a

“Quality Step Increase. This award is in recognition of

superior sustained: performance and reflects great credit

* on you ang the job you have been doing.

2. I am confident that your future performance

will be of continuing high quality.

With pérsonal best wishes,

 

 

WITTE ES eT :
Deputy Directer for Operations

zc

Ba Cees retalehins Tas. TD hes
Lie wail deyerved Tha be mb

a] ea Pave

va alec aye lc 4

-- ve yer oGrispos veto

Few

Ves

, wed oar Yeah ‘gh

 

uence nent son ae
Fy amt Ce UT:

 

ee”

    

 
74-0000 g

as Mo SECRET - -_ vy

re 4 18 hoe Vslted tad a . ~

. bare rereacro
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

2, MAME { Laredo Borat Md rohete }

RANDALL FREDERICK ~~

     
  

   

“gt Reese reumaee

022170

    
 
  
  

 

a Sree Cae roves $ CArRQORT OF Len Oretnt

ELSE Lee | wees

my Heat summon | hamplaced by Office of

| omen UOCANOH OF OePeled STATIONS

   

WASH. , D.C.

   

 

 

 

 

13 PORTO Mumert 3 Tae TRAN SULA
. $6, GRADE AND STEP - \? Sa,alv 08 GATE
- cs cr ae § $ smn SBC

  

HG REMARKS

Le agree to change my home base and carcer category from "MG" to mach

anon | N/2ifox Aeded Lindl é phos -

 

 

 

 

  

Balt More

  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   

188 GAGHATUEE OF CARIER SERVE APPROVING OFS RE

 

aT

AY J
® wee ir tenor [n. GAIKE COONS a wiitiea “Tar wheat
toa foot tt com _] , 1061 cas {we

a aT ary See gala 3 Ueekarte iL (eani(tioe laaciuatios Gta tL,
ae Hn Fee nape “ato ee
“| I IRS ; 4

Ss vot Paneies fb Wer fone cam + [ar ioae Gane fat dae casa Cariecet
ani na

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

fais genes

i
; ce j

 

  
  
     

oF FObEAW ConlR CF

jetas Sh

Noes TS] sa eermows tor Scat

 

yee

 
 

 

ayinte

- ~ CONFIDENTIAL = 3

8 August 1975

NEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Out-of-Sequence Promotion Recommendation:
es Fred Randall

_ 1. We've spoken of the need to look further at both Agency
and DDO implications. of the Freedom of Information Act and, now,
the Privacy Act, including the increased number of appeals and
litigation cases, and of the logic of collecting a coterie of
deponents or affiants to take some of the load off of both you
and me. The grade level of the appeals officers and the depénents

~ must include 14's and 15's, to incorporate the necessary clout
with the divisions and judgment vis-a-vis release of information

to the outside world. |

2. Fred is a GS-14/7. He had just come to me at the time of
the last GS-15 panel exercise and had not been recommended for
promotion by FRD.° I consider his performance over the past 6 months:
to have been Outstanding. He is head and shoulders above the other
directorates’ FIl0s; Ihave considerable laudatory testimony from
OCC, OLC, 0/DDA and within the DDO as to his professionalism, tact,
persuasiveness, analytic skills and realistic, while tough-minded ,

_* Protection of DDO sources and methods. This includes occasional

arm-wrestling with DDO branch/division/staf€ chiefs, OGC and OLC
lawyers, FBI contacts and others above his current grade level.

3. I have discussed this proposed out-of-cycle promotion
recommendation to GS-15 with Ev, who, in turn, has mentioned it ° ‘
to Gordon. The return signals IT got sounded Positive.

4. Ido, therefore, recommend that you, approve Fred's * propotion

to GS-15, effective as soon as the action can he cut.
487 Charlag AL Ertaga

Charles A. Briggs
Chief, Services Staff

bet

Anat ar yyeys|
“UNE fiyet HAL P nes elk ih

fee ne eee ke
 

SE RIOR RL Moar BOAT rh RONEN RO He Ue nMceNPERInglanae tans owes

  

a
’

 

 

S-E-C-R-E-T

FR 73-228
. 6 Juhi 1973.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations -

SUBJECT © :. Appointment of Mr. Frederick C.. Randall
"as Chief, Bran » Forelg
Division

2

1. The appointment of Mr. Frederick C. Randall | as
Chief, Branch TIL, Foreign Resources Division, effective
on or about 11 June 1973, is recommended, .

Z. Mr. Randall has been an employee of the Agency
since September 1951 and is Presently -assigned to Branch
It, Foret er in-
gupport of A copy
of his blographle profile and the last two fitness
reports are attached. \

 

Walter L, O'Brien
Chief

Foreign Resources Division

Attachments:
1. Biographic Profile (Parts 1 and 2) .

2. Fitness Reports (2)

 

The recommendation in paragraph 1 is APPROVED:

Hg Jos $974

erations ¢ fata

 

 

 

 
 

 

- (EYES ONLY
SecreT

(Phen Filled gay

. REPLY REQUESTED ts September 1975
neuer =
ane : FROM: eo

Chief, Servf{ces Staff

One-Time Reciana’ - - Requested Randall Promotion

. As you'know, OB is not reticent about expressing his views, and in the informal
career development world, Fred had had it in FRD. I've known O8 fairly well and re-
spect his candor and professional ism; we jyst worked very well together on the GS-
16/17 Panel, with an interestingly identical philosophy. Fred's performance did not
satisfy OB, "and his Fitness Reports reflect that fact. It does not surprise me, since
Fred had been in FR from 1970-1975, that his Fitness Reports for the past years would
put him in a neutral middle, or even low middle, ranking among B/O& officers. But — |

that's yesterday.

Today, as. I tried to say strongly in my 8 August memo, my view of his work is
that it is Outstanding--and I don't so rate many officers. _I would hope his present

‘work. could Stand on its own merit, and project forward, expecting FOIA to be a way of

life in the DDO with all the management challenge, and headache, that poses. His
present and future peer competition “should be with the A/C crowd,-not the B/O§ group--

if that hurdle is determining.

At the risk of being irritating, I feel. bound to state his case ia what I con-

 

sider the appropriate competitive environment, to avoid an out-of-cycle supgestion
hope

doing mischief to the system. An Eom]

 

 

sony 831 i _ SECRET

an
 

_
an ; SECRET .
+ . £% dew Pulled to) ~
Date PaaraRte

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION _ | 7 danuary 1974

Fu see ore Y 2 mead (Laat Feoeh Medes}

012170 | | Randall, Frederick .
2 MATUEE OF PREEONOETL ACO . crive bate & CATIOORY OF teRoTaeT

Reassignment - Correction Regular
@ seoAa Ayneoery, {Completed by Ofer of

DDO/FR Division

c

Branch IIit

+t, PoMmOn ning

 

 

Ops Officer - CH

14 CLASHHCATION SCHEDULE (G5, LB, aad

 

 

 

 

Gs
18 Reais

This action corrects the original action where. Item 7, Fan and NSCA
was listed incorrectly. :

 

by po 2 eee
bd,

£OR aed use oF Lb | OFFIKA oF Git
w Nie R iapor w GME (oorRS . [ suirca i

  
   
  

 

 

 

 

7A

   

wh feds

 
 

etoarts
Staats

FRAGT get ares

SV BUS copes erereR arom |

Yow coer Fe —_—_ ; .
reg HME et sewers tram - SECRET zromeperiy ge SPADE |”

*

   
 

            

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

Say,

ri ne eet nner etn de

 

 

Coca
pela BL Ce

~ $5, In addition to the PIAG crova,|____hpeopte
have had the endless and répetitive job of searching the

CHAOS files and helping me deal with that most sensitive

aspect of past history. Pf express my thanks to them
and, most particularly, ¢ himself.

6, Finally, let me make special note of the contributions
from and the retired officers handling the OSS
recor vw Their particular expertise was a welcome

addition to-the staff support received.

7. %I'm sure all will give in his new role,
the same high quality support t wave to me. To state
the obvious, although the win record is quite good, the race

is still on, .

 

  

St

 

 
‘toa t0222-10012

 

 

Sm ap ee enter men temnemitertcninmee

 

° CG STE TAL

15 September 1977

MEMOPANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Services Staff

FROM ‘ : Charles A. Briggs
DDO Information Review Officer
SUBJECT : Appreciation
AW A.

1 As As you know well, on September i9th, I turn over
responsibility for release or denial of DDO documents -under
the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts. The experience
has been both frustrating and challenging, epitomizing the
issues in transition from'a totally classified past to a new
intelligence environment yet to be defined. The tension in

law between protection of sources and methods and.more open

government was apparent, daily, to those involved; good case ~
law was made as we sought to adhere, to both principles and .
to regain, through this process, some credibility for the

Agency.

2. U've tried in the past to convey my appreciation
for the truly magnificent support I got from what is now
the Privacy arid Information Action Group, through recommenda-
tions for the Unit Citation subsequently awarded by the DCI,
through QSI‘s. and promotions, and through personal comment,
All have worked long hard hours and all, those now in PLAG
and those who have left, deserve credit for their professional
efforts in this arena; I want to express my thanks to you for
the assistance your People gave to me as the DRO Information

Review Officer,

3, At the risk of being unfair to some who are more
recent arrivals, I _want to express particular and very |

 

 

 

_persenal thanks to

4, My -debt to Fred Rangaii{” as been
made a matter of record on several occasions. et me just
mote here that any supervisor who has had the kind of

qualitative backing that’ those two gentlemen pave me fs
fortunate indeed, : :

 

 

For GPF, Kandall, Frederick

 
74-00000

SECRET

(Whee Filind fod

DDO/SERVICES STAFF |
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF, SERVICES STAFF
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 apres [ay aamt of nism | fe Galt oF zat

 

 

HH Sipazaiiog [3 coemcrion Ganciu ies Cate

ORO

 

 

 

 

wag

4, oe 2 as
Hees Peat Ra 49 SOCaL SKURIY ag
cose | RTE Flas ome Coot . :
i saecsore
pers

 

4b PENIS Cove Gaeta ET NTS i #16 Tad Bahk Safi fal Date
ro) ee tan ’ toa vniconal cant r Tar tarwtriaas [row acone Teta Tart aif a Coe

 

 

bape BA ED
fP- Sad @ Vert fh ted § aS;
_ Prine 9 serra ce 7 ar

 

 

 

21 May i976

ON UISE san eevechn ape fs. SECRET | th. marott ch. ay. 207822 I"

 

 
 

acaanans

 

ee ee

 

 

~

CONFIDENT IAL.

12 February 1976

MEMDRANDUM FOR: Chairman, Dbo Evaluation ‘Board

THROUGH: c/as
SUBJECT: | Promotion Recommendation - Frederick C. Randall to GS-15 i

1. This memorandum constitutes a formal recommendation that Fred

Randall, GS-14/8, now Chief of the DDO Privacy Information (DDO/PIC)

unit in Services Staff, be promoted to GS-15. The position calls for

that grade. : ; a
2.7 Mr. Randall is. 49 years of | age; entered on duty in CIA in 7

Septémber 1951'as a GS-7. assigned toe OSO/FDZ.. He is marricd; has four
children, served briefly in the Air Force (1945-46); has. an AB in

‘Government, an AM in Foreign Affairs, and was a PhD candidate in

His Agel i in FE froin, 1953 to

1965, including overseas tours in in DOD/FRD
from 1965 to March 1975, includin, ield office; -
his current assignment dates from 16 March 75. His date of grade is

June 1967.
3. The specifics of Mr. Randall's. current assignment and all the

superlatives about it I have just recounted in a fitness report which.
I prepared today, as well as in a QST recommendation (approved) of

International Relations.

October 1975 and an out-of-cycle promotion recommendation dated

8 August 1975. I rate his performance Outstanding and refer the
reader{s} to the reports cited for details. -I would note here that

Mr. Randall changed his home base and functional category in November’

of 1975 and was rated number 1 of 4 Category C nominees from this Staff
by all four members of the SS Panel. - I would note further that when

YT submitted my August 75 out-of-cycle promotion recommendation, Mr.
Randall's career designation was B/OG, given his personal circunstances .
the DDO suggested that Randall change his career désignation to become
more competitive "and have an excellent chance on the next go round."
The ast suggestion then resulted.

‘ 4 As the individual responsible for releasing or denying

thousands of DDO documents in response to FOIA Yequests, and subsequently
answering for DDO decisions in affidavits and court depositions, I know
how well Fred dees his work and how richly he deserves this promotion to
GS-15. , ,

 

 
     

Charles A. Briges ;
‘Chief, Se tices Staft
Oil ury ab “=CL BY Q11078 E2 [MPDET

i
wai li HA

 

 

 
