 

 

Tro-10145-10035 — PM ae eel ne wen set ae abe ADAM se ha Ae ce ee Ee ee ee acne ace natant Clee Slee Sites eee ee ni cea BS EEE eae Sees eal ie wedi wnncnecmnmaha nan!

 

“INTERNAL USE ONLY

 

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Thursday - 29 September 1977

 

6, (Internal Use Only - PLC) LIAISON Met with Representative
Richardson Preyer (D., N. Car.) and furnished him the name of a contact
in the State Department to whom an academician and any others doing
scholarly research may secure biographic information on a foreign
service officer of interest to them, Mr. Preyer will provide the name
to those people whom he described as reputable scholars who were -
pressing him for the public release of the Foreign Service list. ‘This
will thus avoid need for access to the full listing which will remain

 

g classified. This arrangement_res rom the meeting with Mr. Preyer, ©
C/CCS, an SA/DO/O, during which
re ;Faised security issues if the list is published. Mr. Preyer

assured us that the scholars involved will be perfectly satisfied.

7. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Mr. Michael O'Neil, General

Counsel of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, called
and requested that the Agency testify at a hearing on the background and

. implementation of our retirement programs scheduled for ali day, if

1 necessary, starting at 10:00 a.m., Wednesday, 12 October, in Room H-405

, of the Capitol. Copies of the Agency staternent would be required seventy-
two hours before the hearing. Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.),
of the Committee, does not consider it necessary that the Director
personally testify.

 

8. (Unclassified - KJS) LIAISON Polly Payne, in the office of
Senator Wendell H. Ford's (D., Ky.) office, called and requested
brochures on CIA, Sue Kessler, of this office, has been advised.

9, (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Accompanied Dan Godar,
OS, to a meeting with Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and
Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, ona variety
of matters. (See Memorandum for the Record.)

10, (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Received a call from
James Wolf, Deputy Chief Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations,
asking for copies of Executive Order 10450 and DCID 1/14, I told Wolf that
Sidney Stembridge, Acting Director of Security, had previously provided
copies of these documents to him and Wolf said yes, but they could not
retrieve them, I agreed to get copies and make them available,

, 2/283
INTERNAL USE ONLY

3/1
