74-0000

 

Two articles appeared in the Chicago press,”

one on 16 August 1963, and one on 20 August 1963,
that suggested Sam was working with the Agency.
The first article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times
written by staff writer, Sandy Smith, ‘and had as its
headline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.
It relatea that the Agency.reportedly was in touch
with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them
in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-
tioned the Las Vegas wiretap, which the article
claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative
Organization." It further went on to state that,
upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the
tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency. The other article appeared in the

. Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony
Weitzel, and commented that during March 1962,
Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing
him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me
alone? i'm one of you!" Sam allegedly stated that,
after Castro's rise in Cuba, a CIA operative con-
tacted him and wanted to know if Sam could do any-
thing for the Government on the turbulent little island.
3im said he had friends on both sides, but no clout.
That was it.

17. Roselli was introduced to James P, O'Connell, of this
Office, who was identified to him ag an employee of Robert A,
Maheu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be-
tween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to
O'Connell's true employer and, at one point, stated that he was
convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project wag
sponsored by the Agency, He hastened to state that he was not
forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and,
further, he would not mention this to anyone else, including Sam.
Sam waa never introduced to any Agency personnel and, while CIA
was never mentioned to him, it is Maheu's belief he eventually sus-
pected the Agency was the power behind the operation,

CLASSIFIED BY OE DEES 127A 7 Th
EXEMPT FRO% C N° TAL CECLASSTFICATION
SCHEDULE OF E. 4 METION CATEGORY:

-} (circle one or more)

§ SBET), ©.
. *AUTURTALS loci GECLASSIFIED ON -

chow ngcaded foce confirlentral

(unless impeocsible, insect date or eveat)

    
        

CONDHENTIAL

 
 
       
74-00000 + a bt

 

18. In May 1962, because of Mr. O'Connell's assignment
to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to
Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.
Harvey was introduced as William Walker, It is not known whether
Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name,

Howard J. Osborn
' Director of Security

crasstrten by S33 CPIFIPYS 2

EXEMPT FROM CcHTR4L DECLASSIFICATION  .
SCHEDULE OF £. 0. 11 -5., ENEMPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58(1), (©) (2; sz (a) (Gels one oF more)

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

elon Graded Eo ed,

(ualess impossible, insert date or event)

     
        

 

- GQAADENTIAL
| EREGHEY CONFIDENTIAL

6. Maheu was asked to approach Roselli, who knew Maheu
a3 a personal relations executive handling domestic and foreign
accounts, and tell him that he had recently -been retained by a
client who represented several international business firms
which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result —
of Castro's action, They were convinced that Castro's removal
was the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price
of $150, C00 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made
clear to Roselli that the U. S. Government was not, and should not,
become aware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Roselli on 14 September 1960 at
the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initial reaction wag
to .void getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he
agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the
“Cuban crowd." Roselli made it clear he did not want any money
for his part and believed Sam would feel the same way. Neither
of these individuals wit@var paid out of Agency funds.

8. During the week of 25 September, Muheu was introduced

to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.
l ‘Hia ‘initial impression of Sarvwas that of a hard; uncouth indi-
vidualwho looked and-acted lik: 1 common run-of-the-mill hoods
lum. However, his living accommodations at the hotel belied
this, us did _the-fact that, ,Maheu learned Sam was under. Periodic
survaillance by the FBI? It was several weeks after his meeting
with Sam and Joe, who was identified to him ag a courier operating
between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of
theses individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade." They
were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana and Santos Trafficant,
xespectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's
ten most-wanted man. The former was deacribed as the Chicago
chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the
latter, the Cosa Nostra boss of Cuban operations, Mahev called
this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

 

  
  

9. In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing
this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but,
if he could be furnished web some type of potent pill, that could

CLASSIFIED BY ab aseZ 124 Af D6

  
 

   
    

 
 
  

 

RON é 2
EXEMPT FR CLASSIFICATION ”
SCHEDULE Cf: i t30N CATEGORY:
§ sec, vhs one or more)

 

“ld ¢
AUTUMA ii. say “DECLASSIFIED ON

Bowngradecd ty Conkslanteg?

(unless impossible, insert date or event)

CONFIDENTIAL

     
  

[t04-10133-10001]

 

 

 

' gangster-type action. The mission target was (:1

cLassizien BY OL33 SDM oY FE
EXEMPT FROW GENTRAL DECLASSIFICATION
SCHEDULE GE 2.5.1

§ 330),

AUTOMALIVALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

down Gvasbed to Com Esdeanteal

(unless impossible, insert date or event)

a

 

24 June 1966

“4

MEMORANDUM FOR:-Deputy Director of Central Intelligence _

1, This memorandum is for information only,

2. In August 1960, Mr, Richard M. Bissell approached
Colonel Sheffield Edwards t6é determine if the Office of Security
had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring

 

Fidel Castro.

3, Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group
was made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his
approval. Colonel J. C, King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed,
but all details were deliberately concealed from any of the
JMWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel partici-
pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the
purpose of the mission,

4. Robert A. Maheu wag contacted, briefed generally on
the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en-
tree into the gangster elements ag the first step toward accome
plishing the desired goal.

5. Mr, Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli
on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew
him casually through clients, but was given to understand that
he was a high-ranking member of the "syndicate" and controlled
all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned
that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly
had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

   
    
   

     
   

 

SENOTION CATEGORY:
: Girte one of more)

  

 

CONFIDENTIAL -
74-00000

ee : ( heres" ct

SHE CONFIDENTIAL

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would ba a much more
effective operation. Sam indicated that he had a prospective
nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had
been receiving kickback payments from the gambling interests,
who still had access to Castro and was’ in a financial bind.

10. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD, was consulted and |
assigned] re develop: @ pill that had the:
elements of rapid solubility, hig lethal content, and little or
no traceability. Six of these items were produced and, after
being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.
Gunn, three pilla were ultimately turned gver to Sam for the

mission. Neither TSD nor Dr, Gunn w88i briefed on the ultimate ~
use of the pills.

 

ll. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks
_ of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out
of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made
several attempts without success.

12, Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the
principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis- -
affected with the. apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and
was willing to handle the mission through his own resources.

 

13. Dr. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor-
tunity of getting involved in an independent operation, .He wag
told that the private interests-backing the project did not want
the U. S. Government and, particularly the CIA, to know of their
involvement. (So far as thts Office knows, he has never divulged
his participation in the project to the Agency. }

14. He asked, as a prerequisite to the deal, that he be given
$10, 000 for organizational expenses and Fequested $1, 000 worth
of communications equipment.

15. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as
the project was canceled shortly after the Bay of Pigs episode.
Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pills
were retrieved. .

CLASSIFIED BY ec SPaY 96

      
 

   
 
  

“i DECLASSIFICATION 3
LHPTION CATEGORY: ae a
§ saq1., t ra Ne et ;
AUTusa. scaLLt DECLASSIFIED ON ty CONFIDENTIAL
Sowngvasdacd to con biden traf JM ia
(unless impossible, insert date or event) co °
74-00000

 

CLASSIFIED BY e233

ExtueT pee £2 "PHY HE
PARE mo oe
SchEeDULE oe CECLASSIFICATION

§ SHa5s,

Soingratad. bin comtben teal

potential flap. J

At the height of the
. expressed concern : Sa :

 

“tent o

“poh Bam he didn't have the facilities, whores
nays-Miamito g6 to Vegas and and’.

Sam threatened tole

BS of :

Ls 16. oF significant interest was an incident which involved
a request levied by Sam upon Maheul and now ¥ shapes =P aga

“to put a we ~~

an | —¢

“4

project negotiations. Sam

   

i; faSam. wasked Mahou
room to determine the exe
er i abe _

 
  

take-care-of-the-matte? himself. ty ‘order to pre~ .

vent this, Mahau-contacted-Edwar
Florida inveatigator, and-asked him.to handle t the on

set i

bois, a

Jdatead of ingtaliing = bugiin- thegoom, the

technician placed a tan e

onthe, phone, watch ob-

. Viously did mot serve Sam!s-purpose. ! ! the techni-«
cian involved-in the assignment was discovered in

the process, arrested,
office for questioning.

' Dubsiabytelephene,/the called Mahefatthe 2

te ' Kentiworth Hoteh .Miami, and informed him tliat.
.* he had been detained by the police. This call was
. made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

can

and taken to the Sheriff's
Aftetshe-tailetoresch

Subsequently, the Department of Justice ane
nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along
swith the technician. On 7 February 1962, the —
Director of Secur ity briefed the Attorney. General,
Robert Kennedy, on the circumstantes leading up
to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap, At our re-—
Guest, prosecution was dropped.

 
  
 

  

 SSNPTION CATEGORY:
cb teivele one of more)

AUT oceans mah | DECLASSIFIED ON

    

   
 

   
 

(unless impossibic, insert date or event)

 

 

Lovo
GEAR eT

CONFIDENTIAL

 

BONFIDENTIAL
