14-00000

SENSITIVE
ot SECRET

~~

returns for specified years and in most cases the Form 1023
Application for Tax Exempt Status. Ramparts eaked the IRS
to make these materiale available for inspection at a mutu-
ally convenient tine.

4. A review of available CIA data on the listed organi-
zations has shown that 89 of them were at one ti or another ;
sonehow associated vith CIA. Only two of these 5 4,24,0l a

Q ‘ and

QRSTUMP
are of current operational interest. ene activities
and 45 organizations formerly of interest to CIA were men-
tioned in the American press during) MHDOWEL) )|Forty-two
other listed organizations which we in fact associated
/ with CIA were not exposed exposed during[MHDOGE| j/We have found no

evidence that 55 organizations were ever directly
or indirectly agseciated with CIA. (Because two of the names
on the list are sueceasive names for the same organization,
the actunl total number of organizations Listed ia 144 rather
than 145.) Three additional project organizations, not
included in the Samparte list, may be vulnerable because
they were covertiy funded by hitherto unexposed foundation

unding instruments included in the list. Only one of these,
TPGLARE)| ig of cur-
¥Yeat operationa aterest. VA Ve

§. The CA Staff wae furnished 2 copy of the Ramparts
letter and list and has checked out the organizations of
possible previous CA Staff interest. All organisations not
readily identifiable with known project organizations or as
CCS funding instruments have been traced with RID, with Cs

area divisions that might legically heave had an interest in
them and against CC8 Registry files. Through urrangeneste
with the IRS, representatives of CCS and OGC also examined
available IRS data (990-4's and Forms 1023) on the listed
erganizations. This was done before the IRS documenta were
made svailable to Ramparts, in order to be sure that restricted
990-A, Part I data sonia got be furnished to fears aad to
try to establish the reasous for Ramparts’ iaterest in the
organizations. Our current fiedings are the results of these
various file reviews.

 

 

 

 

 

 

; 6. Attached hereto are annexes listing and discussing
the several categories of organizations on the epee list.
annex 4 deale with the two organization on the list which
are etill of active operational interest. Both received

 

ylee
14-00000

 

-3-

Ol
press mention during /MHDOWSL), Aanex B lists and discusses
under several sub-categories the 42 organizations with which
the Agency has had some direct or indirect operationa] ties
in the past which were not cited in the press during /um~ ©/
BOWEL, Annex C lists the 45 organizations included in the
April 1968 list which had former Agency operational ties
which were subject to press allegations during) MHDOWEL).()| Annex.
D liste and briefly discusses the 55 organizations included
in ee ae list that had so known operational connection
with Cla. mhnex E liste and discusses three hitherto unex-
posed operational activities that sre not included in the
April 1968 Ramparts list but which are vulnerable because
they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding instru-
ments included in the peseer ty list. Annex F shows a copy of
the ful) April 1966 Ramparts list.

7. The 42 former project organizations Listed and dea=
cribed at Annex & which have not previceusly been charged with
CIA agseciation in American press comment fall into five
general categories:

a. Foundations and other organizations used as
witting funding conduite for covert subsidies te pro-
ject organisations and other operational activities.
Sixteen organizetions fall inte thie category. Eleven
of them are multipurpose legitimate foundations. which
were recuited by CCS. Four were created or recruited
for exclusive use in funding one project each and one
wag uged for a one-time travel grant. :

b&. Witting legitimete foundations and organiza—-
tions used exclusively te provide funding and status
sover for singleton agents. Six organizations were
aged in thie way end provided cover for seven agents
im various perts of the world. Some of these organi-
gations alee previded one-time suppert for unwitting
individuals of operational interest.

6. Proprietary or subsidy project ores gations.
There are six of t Projects |CAMANTILLA, | WUHUSTLER) \) |
FOOLPROOF, BrMAMABLE tA ; ; (SGPANPISHL a [ARSTAIKER

- bt ‘7

4. Three organizations with which there were .
witting operational contacts to obtain information
and loads but which were not actively involved opera-
tionaliy.

 
14-00000

 

 

BR WOVE
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
THROUGH: Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT: Indications of the Seope and Possible
Damage of Hew Allegations by Ramparts

Magazine

1. This memorandum is furnished for information only.

2. Karly in April 1968 the Office of the General Coun-
gel made available to Central Cover Staff (CCS) a copy of a
letter and an attached list of organizations sent to the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by Mr. Jon Frappier of Ram-

arts Magazine. The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been

, faraished OGC through IBS lisison channels. The letter appended
’ a list of 145 tax-exempt organizations sad indicated that all
were ergpected of having been funded by or having cooperated
with CIA.

3. The letter indicated that the listed organizations
were only a part of the organizations being scrutinized by
Sonnets and that other available sources of information on

ee and other guepect organisations had already been examined.
fhe other sources of information were stated ag including the
literature of the organizations and interviews with their staff
members; recorda available in the Attoraey General's offices
in Illineis, Maseachusetts, and New York; data available at
the National Informetion Bureagw in New York, Group Research,
Inc., in Washington, D.C., and the Foundation Library Centers
in New York and fashington; and the 980-A returns available at
the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990-4

 
14-00000

eter saeeigs

 

RB

Three Organizations with Which There Have Been Some
. Mitting Contacts

‘

30. International Rescue Comuittee, Inc. Care) ~ Manhattan,
New York (93)

Under Project QKGAUNT, $2,500 was furnished rRcC in
1950 = 1951 to obtain biographic gata on defectors. In
Deceuber 1962, IRC Chairman Leo Cherne offered cover and
FI use of IRC to Fuamons Brown, DC/CA. C/EE declined
the offer, indicating there rilready were useful contacts.

IRC received legitimate grants from J. Frederick Brown
Foundation (34) and J. M. Kaplan Fund (101).

 
14-00000

 

 

-4-

_ @. Bleven unwitting organizations which received
grants from project organizations for operational or
eover reasons or which cooperated with project organi-
zations. _

8. We cannot: say with complete assurance thet all 55
of ‘the apparently innocent organizations on the Ramparts
list in fact never had any Agency ties. Our researches have
shown that RID indices are often incomplete. We have found
operational use data in CCS files on organizations with no
record in RID. The same is true in other cases where infor-
mation was available in CA Staff or area division files on
organizations which drew a blank in RID. . It seems likely,
however, that any undetected operational interest in the
organizations was in the period of the early 1950's and of a
marginal nature. ;

9. In reviewing available information on the listed
organizations we attempted to determine whether there was a
logical external basis for Ramparts’ interest in the organi=-
zations or whether some form of internal Agency leak might
be involved. Our. reviews and analysis show fairly conclu-
sively that Ramparts bas been proceeding on the basis of
overtly. available information, supplemented by interviews
with project personnel:

a. All but three of the 42 terminated but hither-.
to wnexposed project organizations and 24 of the 55 or-
ganizations which actually had no Agency ties are sose—-
how related to project organizations or funding iastrnu=
ments previously exposed. Some of the organizations
made legitimate or covert granta to previously exposed
organizations, others received covert or legitinste
‘grants from previously exposed funding instruments or
from innocent foundations that had made legitimate
gEranta to exposed organizations, and still others had
officers who were associated with exposed CIA organi~
zations.

b. Thirty-one innocent organizations on the
Ramparts list and three of the hitherto unexposed
Organizations of former interest to the Agency have -
no such known ties to exposed Agency organizations.
In most of these cases, however, the names of the
organizations are similar to those of exposed organ-
izations or are of a nature that makes them suspect.

legis
Tue

 
14-00000

 

 

~5-

19. It seems likely that Ramparta' interest in a num
ber of the 42 unexposed project organizations is based on
Zactors unrelated to the actual CIA dealings with them.

11. The Headquarters elements that are or were responsi-
ble for the projects and activities that could be implicated
by new Ramparts allegations have been notified of the fore-
going findings. No further action is required at this time.

 

08
? #2

Attachments
(Annexes)

ces C/CA
c/cL

“C/FI/OPS |

Qs

DDP/OPSER/CCS/PRG/ p£l (5071/9328)

 

 

aie
 

SK,

 

. . @ «
fg “e
BRROY LS
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not ‘Reproduce ,
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans oo
THROUGH: Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT: — Indications of the Scope and possible
: : Damage of New Allegations by y Ramparts.

Hagazine

1. This memorandum is furnished for information only.

2. Harly in April 1968 the Cffice of the General Coun-:
sel made available to Central Cover StafZ (CCS) a copy of a
letter and an attached List of organizations sent to the
internal Revenue Service (IRS) by Hr. Jon Frappier of Ram-
parts Magazine. The letter, dated 5 April 1968, had been
furnished OGC through INS lisison channels. The letter appended
& List of 145 tax-exempt organizations and indicated that all
were suspected of having been funded by or having cooperated :
with crs.

3. The letter indicated that the Listed. organizati Lons
were only a part of the organizations being scrutinized by
Ramparts and thet other available sources of information on
these and other suspect organizations had already been examined.
The other gources of information were stated as including the
literature of the organizations and interviews with their staf?
members; records available in the Attorney General's offices |
ino Tllinois, YMagsachusetts, and New York; data available at
the National Inforuation Bureau in New York, Group Research,
Inc., in Washington, D.C., and the Foundation Library Centers
in New York and Washington; and the $90-A returna available at
the district offices of the IRS. The letter requested 990-A

r

03979
104-10059-10026)

 

 

C ba — , oO = ONTIAL - - SECRET

; ". Indications of-the Scope and: Possible Damage
.., Of. New Allegations by Ramparts. Magazine |

| TO: (Officer dosigmation, | pom wwe, ond”
building)

g -fetuiber ‘sock ‘comment to show froin whom
to-whem, ;,Draw,@ ing, ocrams cofuem after ench comment)

 

 

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

 

returns for specified years and in moat cases the Form 1023
Application for Tax Exempt Status. Ramperts asked the IRS
to make these naterials available for inspection at a nuutu-
ally convenient tine. ee °

4. A veview of available CIA data on the listed organi-
zations has shown that 89 of them were at one time or another
Somehow associated with CIA. Only two of these:

axe of current operational interest. These two activities
aad 45 organizations formerly of interest to CIA were men-
tioned in the American press during MEDOWEY.0| Forty~tyvo

-other listed organizations which weré in fact associated

v

with CIA were not exposed during(HHDOVEL.U! We have found no
evidence that 55 organizations onthe list were ever directly
or indirectly associated with CIA. (Because two of the names —
on the list are successive names for the same organization,
the actual total number of organizations listed ig 144 rather
than 145.) Three additional project organizations, not
included in the Ramparts list, may be vulnerable because
they were covertly runded by hitherto unexposed foundation
funding instruments included in the list. Only one of these,
is of ecur-

rent operational iaterest.

_&. The CA Staf?.was furnished a copy of the Ranparts
letter anc list and hag checked out the organizations of
possible previous CA Stazz interest. All organizations not
veadily identifiable with known project organizations or as
CCS funding instruments have been traced with RID, with CS
area divisions that might lezgically have had an interest in
them and agaiust CCS Registry files. Through arrangements
with the IRS, representatives of CCS and CGC also examined
avablable IRS data (990-A's and Forms 1023) on the listed
organizations. This was done before the ERS documents were
made available to Ramparts, in order to be sure that restricte
$90-A, Part I. data would not be furnished to Ramparts and to
try to establish the reasons for. Ramparts’ interest in the
organizations. Our current findings are the results of these
various file reviews. : a :

6. Attached hereto are annexes listing and discussing
the several categories of organizations on the Ramparts list.
Annex A deals with the two organizations on the list which
are still of active operational interest. Both received

we

 
 

 

~3-

press mention during (DOWEL Annex B lists and discusses
under several sub-categories the 42 organizations with which
the Agency has had some direct or indirect operational ties
in the past which vere not cited in the press during] MH~ 0!
powEL, Annex C lists the 45 organizations included in the
April 1968 list which had former Agency operational ties.
which were subject to press allegations during /MHDOWS].0/ Annex
D lists and briefly discusses the 55 organizations included
in the Ramparts list that had no known operational connection
with CI4. Annex E lists and discusses three hitherto unex-

‘posed operational activities that are not included in the ~

April 1988 Ramparts List but. which are vulnerable because -

they were covertly funded by hitherto unexposed funding instru-
mente included in the Ramparts list... Annex F shows: a copy of
the full April 1968 Ramparts list.

7. The 42 former project organizations listed and des-
cribed at Annex B which have not previously been charged with
CIA association in American press coanent ‘fall into five :
general categories:

: a. Foundations and ‘other organizations used | as
witting funding conduits for covert subsidies to pro-
ject organizatioug and other operational activities.
Sixteen organizations fall into thie category. Eleven
of them are multipurpose legitimate foundations. waich
were recuited by CCS. Four were created or recruited |
for exclusive use in funding one project each and one
was used for a one-time. travel grant.

b.. Witting legitimate foundations’ and organize-
tions used exclusively to provide funding and status
cover for singleton agents. 5ix organizations were
used in this way and provided cover for seven agents.
in various parts of the world. Some of these organi=- ©
zations also provided one-time support for unwitting -

‘ individuals of operational interest.

ce. Proprietary or suosidy aaere organizations. 0
here are six of these: Projects Sa aa
FOCLPROOH, (ETNANABLE, ScPANFISH, and [AESTRI
Q OL

dad, Three organizations with which there were
witting operational contacts to obtain information
aud leads but which were not actively involved opera~—
tionally.

 

al
