13-00000

58

i ture f this legislation, CLA is proceeding even
now t Stig fee Her snasitication the relevant documents under its control. Further,
we will cooperate fully with any mechanism established by the Congress an
President to declassify all of-this material.

Chairman Gienn. Thank you, Mr. Gates.
Mr. Sessions.

NY OF THE HON. WILLIAM 8. SESSIONS, DIRECTOR,
PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; ACCOMPANIED BY

_ DAVID G. LEITCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

. Sessions. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of. the
coe I have a complete statement which I will file, and
there are some diagrams which I will also make available for the
record, and a photograph of the files themselves. | will

Chairman GLENN. ithout objection, your entire statement

included in the record. .
ares Sessions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to appear
before you to testify about FBI investigative records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. I applaud this Process
and your efforts. It is fundamental that Government exist to mee
the needs of its citizens. An examination of these issues is directly
related to satisfying the intense interest and concern of our citizens
about the circumstances surrounding that tragic event some
yeerom th i i I favor

the outset, I would like to state emphatically that J |!

maxinune “siaclosure, consistent with the law and the legitimate
need to protect certain small but highly sensitive categories of irr
formation. I can assure you that the FBI will work cooperativel ly
through the Department of Justice with both the Senate and e
House to develop a comprehensive approach to these importan’
issues.

‘ As you know, the Government has conducted a number of re-
views Of the assassination. The Warren Commission, the House As
sassinations Committee, and the Church Committee all conducte
reviews that I believe can be best categorized as exhaustive. It is
my understanding that the FBI provided massive amounts of jinfor:
mation to those entities to help ensure that they accomplis:
their missions. Once again, we desire to be as helpful as we are

able. im
‘Immediately following the shooting of President Kennedy, the
FBI began a massive investigation. An intense effort was made. Re-
lated investigations were conducted and much information was ex-
changed, as Director Gates has noted, between the various agen-

cies. As is the case with. all major investigations, thousands of.

ages of documents were created to record the results of these ef-
cilitate the investigations. .
OMe dattcont kinds of {nformation-were recorded in the FBI
files. The results of thousands of interviews of witnesses, other in-
dividuals with possible helpful knowledge, and contacts with confi-
dential informants were.memorialized. Communications between
the FBI headquarters and our field offices, and vice versa, were in-
‘cluded, as were communications between the FBI and other agen-
cies. Forensic reports were recorded. In all, FBI files relating to the

59

assassination contained over 499,000 Paes of documents, with a
few more pages added every time the follows up on a new alle-
gation or a new issue arises.

r Congress amended the Freedom of Information Act in 1974,
the FBI began receiving requests for information relating to the as-
sassination. By 1978, four years later, over 200,000 pages of materi-
al had been processed and made available to the public through the
FBI’s public reading room. Many authors, journalists, historians,
and others have visited and revisited these materials, which
remain. available today as a valuable source of historic information.

I would like to briefly describe to the Committee a breakdown of

I records relating in some way to the assassination. The FBI has
four core files that relate directly to the investigation of the assas-
sination. Our cooperation with the Warren Commission and the in-
vestigation of Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby—those are the
four core files. There are aj proximately 499,000 pages in these
files, 263,000 of which are’ duplicate pages that were cross-filed,

ird agency records, and some FBI records that have not been
processed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.

Approximately 223,000 pages, or 94 percent of the records we
have processed, have already been released to the public. In addi-
tion, the FBI has several other much smaller files as a result of
other directly related investigations, such as the investigation of
Marina Oswald, and these files comprise approximately 22,000
pages, 13,000 of which are duplicate, third agency, or unprocessed
pages. Fifty-ei ht percent of these pages processed pursuant to the

reedom of Information Act have been released to the public.

Of the pages available in the FBI reading room on the main floor
at FBI headquarters, approximately 189,000 pages, or 94 percent,
are available in their gntirety. The remaining 12,000 pages in the
reading room reflect some egree of redaction. The information
that has not been disclosed or that has been redacted to some
degree falls within the exemptions that are enumerated in the
Freedom of Information Act and the protections of the Privacy Act.

is includes information that, one, is classified on the basis of
national security; two, would disclose the identities of individuals
who specifically requested confidentiality; three, would disclose the
identities of confidential informants or sources; four, is highly per-
sonal information about individuals; or, five, originated with other

Government agencies and those agencies specifically requested that
the information not be released based upon exemptions applicable
to those particular agencies. .

While I strongly favor maximum disclosure under the law, there
are certain types of information that are particularly critical to
successful law enforcement investigations and national security; for
example, information that is properly and appropriately classified,
information that would identify confidential sources, and informa-
tion that would disclose sensitive investigative techniques or the
types of information the disclosure of which could negatively
impact upon our ability to fulfill our mission. Information in FBI
files that has not.been disclosed publicly falls largely within these
descriptions of information.

In any case, I believe it is extremel healthy for the country to
have these issues aired and to be resolved. The public interest dic-
13-00000

' . EGR-OFFICIAL USE ONBY

 

eon
po “BBY 97-062
aD 31 January 1997

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point
for JFK Board

Lee Strickland
DA Focal Point
for JFK Board

FROM: ‘John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical
Review Group

SUBJECT: | Request No. CIA-16
from JFK Board

1. Attached is “Request for Additional Information and
Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)”, which
was received from the Assassination Records Review Board on.
29 January 1997. The request is for additional details

“ related to files on Lee Harvey Oswald that may have existed

in the Office of Security and in the Do.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request. We are asked to make the information
available to the Board by 24 February 1997.

 

 

Attachment
13-00000

ob

begin review for declassification immediately of this material. And, indeed, as I
speak, the reviewers are going through a substantial number of documents, and 1
anticipate that many of these will be released shortly.

As we carry out our program to declassify Kennedy assassination documents, our

will be to release as many as le. In fact, recently approved a new CLA
leclassification guideline for our Historical Review Program wi specifically. di-
rects a presumption in favor of declassification. I believe we can be very forward
leaning in maleing these documents available to the public, and I have instructed
the Historical lew Group to take this attitude to heart.

To understand the itude of the effort involved in reviewing these documents
for declassification, it is important to place them in some context. The CIA's collec-
tion of documents related to the aseassination of President Kennedy consista of ap-
proximately 250,000-800,000 pages of material. This includes 64 boxes of copies and
originals of information provided to the Warren Commission and the House Select
Committee on Assassinations and 17 boxes of material on Lee Harvey Oswald accu-
mulated after President Kennedy's assassination. Unfortunately, and for reasons
that I do not know, what we are dealing with is a mass of material that is not in-
dexed, is uncatalogued, and ia highly disorganized—all of which makes the review
process more difficult. The material contains everything from the most sensitive in-
tolligence sources to the most mundane news clippings.

These records include documents that CIA hed in its files before the aasassina-
tion, a large number of records that CIA received later es routine disseminations
from other agencies, as well as the reports, correspondence, and other papers that
CIA prepared in the course of, assassination investigations. I should emphasize
that these records were assembled into the present collection as a result of specific
inquiries received from the Werren Commission or the House Select Committee on
Assassinations. I have pre] a chart that illustrates this point.

As you can see, prior to ident 3 assassination, CLA held only a small
file-on Lee Harvey Oswald tt consisted of 38 documents (approximately 110
pages), some of which originated with the FBI, State Department, the Navy, and

. Rewapaper clippings. Only 11 documents originated with the CIA. I have brought
fore

along a copy of Oswald’s file as it existed be: the assassination so that you can
see first-hand how slender it was at the time, As I have already noted, we have de-
classified the CLA documents in this file with quite minimal deletions, and we are
providing them to the National Archives. The records in this file dealt with Os-
wald’s defection to the Soviet Union in 1959 and his activities after his return in
1961. By contrast, it.was only after the assassination that CIA accumulated the rest
of the material-on Oswald-—some 33,000 pages—most of which CIA received from
other agencies after November 22, 1968. 7 :

You have asked about documents in our possession generated by other agencies.
In fact, much of the material held by CLA originated with other. part-
ments. For example, in the 17 boxes of records, approximately 40 percent of
the documents originated with the FBI, and about 20 percent origi from the
State De; nt or elsewhere, Our staff is still through material com-
piled at request of the Warren Commission the House Select Committee on
Assassinations, w) includes 63 boxes of paper records and one box that contains
72 reels of microfilm. The microfilms, i or overlap material in other parts of the
collection. We estimate that within the 63 boxes of paper records, approximately 27
percent of the. documents originated with a variety of other U.8. Government agen-
cies, private organizations, and foreign and American press. : .

Although our holdings do include many documents from other agencies, we none-
theless have a substantial collection of documents that will require considerable
effort to review, and as I said earlier, at my direction, this review for declassifica-
tion is now underway. A preliminary survey of these files has provided us some in-
dications of what they contain, Although the records cover a wide variety of topics,
they principally focus on CIA activities concerning Cuba and Castro, Oswald's defec-
tion to the Soviet Union, and Oswald’s subsequent activities in Mexico City and
New Orleans. They also include a large number of name traces requested by the
staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, as well as material relating
to the Garrison investigation and Cuban exile activities.

The CIA cannot release a number of documents unilaterally because of the limits
in the Privacy Act (which protects the names of American citizens against unau-
thorized disclosure), the sequestration of many documents by the House Select Com-
mittee on Assassinations, and the fact that msny of the documents belong to agen-
cies other than CIA. However, we have’ taken steps to lift. the sequestration,
coordinate with other agenciga d to begin the process of declassification. If neces-

7

on

sary, I will ask the House for a resoluti iti
thea ificatio ton permitting CIA to release the results of
Spgclassit Tenant 4 effort on the sequestered documents.

material. During the investigation by the House Select Committee on Assassina-

agen t OF the Privacy of an individual.
gual ion is not passed the Co. i i i
tha ae papers, wo oa ance BY lig con ngress and signed by the President egerding
held ba information relevant to the assassination, 1 wil i
of distinguished Kvericane from outside of Government to oxamine whoiaice Feces
re or kept classified. They would then issue an unclassified

u fort required to declassify the documents related to ¢ inati
President Kennedy wail be daunting. However, it is an important” program and ase
perpen ay emma to making it work. Even in a time of dimbnishing resources

itelligence Community, I have allocation of 15 full-time positions to

T believe these actions attest to the seri i
t Seriousness of our intent to get these
declass pen what ind the ee fied to Gutside, noneov,
w 2 in response to thi it-
request, I cite our echnical | reservations about the mec anism estaba
° iev . 4 intend to address only I i
Community concerns; I will defer to the Department of Justice on any aadigond

. Problems posed by the joint resolution.

, Tam concerned that the joint resolution contai i
con¢ t tains no provision requiri
document handling by the ‘Assacsination Meteriale

Third, I concerned that the joint resoluti i
a ned tk ition does not id i
the pppormunity to object to the release of CIA information contained in eee

o ited by or the Warren Commiasi joi i
mente origi ‘ Wi ion. Under the joint resolutio: , docu-
ment - originated by these entities can be released directly by the Executive Director

or other Eeeoutna y iate aoe, Review Board without any review by the President

Fourth, the joint reaolution isi i
. re provision for a 80-day period i
penis (2.8 Pear ceaisions by rahe Executive Director to. release information "ae PO
Perce materiel piper tng ingful review of what could Prove to be a large
an ly, section 6 of the joint resolution, which i
Poabonement of public release of a.document, makes no provision for nearer
a locuments that. may contain Executive privilege or deliberative process,

assassination, they would un-
13-00000

”

54

history staff and to form the Historical Review Group that will
review the JFK documents and other documents of historical inter-
es!

I believe these actions attest to the seriousness of our intent to
getting these papers declassified and released, and to open what re-
mains classified to outside non-governmental review. It is against
this background that in response to the Committee’s request, I cite’
our few technical reservations about the mechanism established by
the joint resolution to achieve this same result. I intend to address
only intelligence community concerns. I will defer to the Depart-
ment of Justice on any additional problems posed by the joint reso-
ution, i . ; . .

First, vesting in an outside body the determination as to whether
CIA materials related to the assassination can be released to the
public is inconsistent with my own statutory responsibility for the
protection of intelligence sources and methods.

d, I am concerned that the joint resolution contains no pro-
vision requiring security clearances or secure document handli
by the assassination materials review board or its staff.

ird, I am concerned that the joint resolution does not provide
the Agency with the opportunity to object to the release.of CIA in-
formation contained in documents originated by Congress or the
Warren Commission. Under the joint resolution, documents origi-
nated by these entities can be released directly by the executive di-
rector of the assassination materials review board without any
review by the President or other Executive Branch agencies.

Fourth, the joint resolution provision for a 30-day period for
agencies or departments to appeal decisions by the executive direc-
tor to release information may not provide sufficient time for
meaningful review of what could prove to be a large volume of ma-
terial at one time. .

Fifth, and finally, Section 6 of the joint resolution, which. out-
lines the grounds for postponement of public release of a document,
makes no provision for postponing release. of. documents that may
contain Executive privilege or deliberative process, attorney-client,
or attorney work product information. ile such privileges could
be waived in the public interest and, in fact, are not likely to arise
with respect to factual information directly related to the JFK as-
sassination, they would be unavailable under the joint resolution in
the rare case they might be needed.

These are the technical problems that I believe can be solved and
that will, in fact, expedite the release of documents bearing on the
assassination of President Kennedy. But, again, whatever the
future course of this legislation, CIA is proceeding even now to
review for declassification the relevant documents under its con-
trol. Further, we will cooperate fully with any mechanism estab-
lished by the Congress and the President to declassify all of this
material.

Mr. Chairman, let me close with a comment on why I am person-
ally committed to getting these documents out. Like all Americans
old enough to remember that terrible day in 1963, and as several
members of the Committee have alluded to, I also remember where
I was and what I was doing.

55

ber how the word spread-like wild fire between classes of that hor-

at the intersection of Constitution and Pennsylvani
where I waited for hours to watch the President's funeral sevenues

I entered public service less than three years later, heeding
; many in >
ration heard. He said then, “Now, the trumpet gummens us. again
pot as a call to bear. arms, though arms we need, not as a cail to
a e, though in battle we are, but as a call to bear the burden of
& long ht struggle, year in and year out, rejoicing in hope, pa-
in tribulation, a struggle against the common enemies of
‘Mr. Chairman the oa thing mc shorting
ir. Chairman, t ty thing more horrifying to me than the as-
fhesination itself is the insidious, perverse notion that elements of
the erican Government, that my own Agency, had some part in
it am letermined personally to make public or to expose to digin-
terest eyes every relevant scrap of paper in CIA’s possession, in
e hope of helping to dispel this corrosive suspicion. With or with-
out naelation, I intend to proceed. I believe I owe that to his

you.
(The prepared statement of Mr. Gates follows:]

Preparep Statement oF Mr. Gates

Mr. Chairman, I am here today at your i i
» Tam a request to provide my view: S. J. Res.
2B, ere jissessination Materials Biselosuse Act of 1992," Jad to deccribe the
documenta held by the CIA that relate to the assassination of John F.
nedy. very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on this important

mat

Let me begin by stating that I am in com lete agreement wi Pos
i t ee) t -
the joint resolution—that efforts should be made to declasift wet Bake mail.

sarin ihe public as quickly as possible Government documents relating to the as-

Even before introduction of this joint resolution, I recognized the need for greater

o importance. Tw: t] s "
pounced the establishment of a new unit within CIA that wall be respons bie for
histo: documents as possible consistent with the

tion of intelligence sources and methods. This new uni istori eview
. a . unit, the Hi
Group, in the '3 Center for the Study of Intelli ence” will review iat fazer

mn documents 90 wer old or older, and natio:

t are 10 years old or older. In addition to the systematic

the Study 0 nter for

historical importance, including the assassination of Presi:
h 2 ; uM ident Kennedy. istor-
ical Group will then examine the documents for the purpose 0! declan .

other one of high interest in the JFK papers, I am not waiting for legislation or

encies to start declassifying documents belonging to The Historical

Review roup, at my direction, already has begun its review of the documents relat- .

e assassination of John F. Kennedy, and I am giad to report that the first

group of these records, inclu: all CIA documents on Lee Ha: i
0 fl 1 ic rvey Oswi
the spanasination, has been dedi with quite | minimal deletions wad a being
i National Arct e This i 3
edge, a small fraction of what we have, but it is an earnest of my conan noe
 

50

denied, you say postponed. I am curious as to how long the post-
ponement will be. Will it be until the national security or privacy
are no longer threatened? Do we want'to require a mandatory
review every two years?

Going along, some of the language is fairly broad. We had the

e here a few moments ago about an intelligence agent.
Then there is another section that gives us an exception—“an in-
telligence method which is currently utilized, or reasonably expect-
ed to be utilized.”

The one that troubles me most, although I know there is a
reason for it, but I just am concerned about the doors it may open,
is “. .'. an invasion of privacy of a livi rson, whether that
person is identified in the material or not.” I am concerned about
that being used as a ground for requesting postponement of disclo-
sure. . .

So I think, consistent with all that you have said here, I hope
that you will give us the benefit of your second look at that Section
* Ghairan Guan, Thank
; LENN. Thank you.
Senator Cohen? :
' Senator Conen. No further questions. : a

irman GLENN. Good. Thank-you very much. We may have ad-
ditional. questions. It-has been a long session this morning here,
and we have additional questions from other members or questions
after we review. We would appreciate an early reply so it.could be
included in the record. Thank you very much. We appreciate.

‘Mr. Sroxes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Senator Spzcrer. Thank you very much. :
Honorable. Robert Gates,

Chairman GLENn. The next panel is the
telligence ency, and the Honorable

William Sessions, Director of the FBI, Gentlemen, you have been
very patient here this: morning. I know we had told you you would
be on by about 10:00 here. We are about an hour late on that, or a
little over. We appreciate your forbearance ‘this morning. We look
forward to your testimony this morning.. ~-

Mr. Gates, if you would lead off, we would appreciate. it very
much. ; .

_ TESTIMONY OF THE HON. ROBERT M. GATES, DIRECTOR,
.. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC!

Mr. Gates. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, I am here #

today at your request’ to provide my views on S. J. Res. 282, the
Assassination Materials Disclosure, Act of 1992, and to describe the
nature of the documents held by the Central Intelligence Agency

that relate to the assassination of John F.. Kennedy.

. Senator Sasser.’ Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the Director could |

pull the mike just a little bit closer? Thank you.

Mr. Gates. I very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on
this important matter. .

Let me begin by stating that I am in complete ement with
the purpose underlying the joint resolution, that efforts should be
made to declassify and make available to the public as quickly as
possible Government documents relating to the assassination of

 

51
President K
] lent I ney: We hope that opening up and giving journal-

J most importantly, th i
mental fi tions fat
yaaa after Head tele to resolve questions that still liege bree "28
elosure will te osse rae Fu mend I believe that maximum dis-
the n rnurder of President Kennedy. vA had anything to do with
the wn gore the introduction of this joint resolution, I i
impo e eater public access to CIA d of historia
new unit within CIA thet wilt eenounced, the establishment of a
man . : . . ns e i i

Y historical documents ag Possible, consistent wie aeving as

“In addition at ice estimates
have directed th, his matic review of 30-year-old documents, I

ipence to imps aopears focusing on particule” “events of
: tance, rf , Par !
anannedy. The Historical Review Group will ws ect resident
- Because of high atorset o the Ji Tr wating te
legisios z tin toe pai J am. iti
Kees ay, ees oes nth at
‘begun fe eee rical Review Group, at my ‘direction al.
nation of jae ‘ew of the documents related to the assassi
first group cogent Kennedy, and I am happy te reco se
Harvey Cota prion gore, including all rane documents cae te
Le ite wud the assassination, has been declassified
I transferred to the Na-

As. we Carry out our p
documents, our goal will be ae declassify Kennedy assassination

I recent] approved Ww
. ni Ip: Vv a ne’ CLA declassification guideline for our
in favor of dec] ir
! Pachden

Jo ‘understand the
t Ocuments for declassification, it is 1
ingen : s on, it is im
mse ne entext. ‘The aa s Reection of documents relied’ an
250,000 to 30( 1,000 Pages of materiel Ths i tee 1 benately

co ies. 2 A + i i
pies and originals o; information provided to the Werreares, of

mission and the House Select Commi
ree ote the mmittee on Assassinati
aterial on Lee Harvey Oswald accumulated efter ed

dent Kennedy's ‘assassination.
13-00000

52

Unfortunately, and for reasons that'I do not know, what we are
dealing with is a mass of material that is not indexed, is uncatalo-

. gued, and is highly disorganized, all of which makes the review

process more cult. The material contains everything from the

most. sensitive intelligence sources to the most mundane news clip-

pings.

: These records include documents that CIA had in’ its files before
the assassination, a large number of records that CIA received
later as routine disseminations from other agencies, as well as the
reports, correspondence, and other papers that CIA prepared in the
course of the assassination investigations. I should emphasize that
these records were assembled into the present collection as a result
of specific inquiries received from the Warren Commission or the -
House Select Committee on Assassinations.

Prior to President Kennedy’s assassination, CIA held only a
small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents
amounting to 124 pages, some of which originated with the FBI,
the State Department, the Navy, and newspaper clippings. Only 11
of these documents originated within CIA. I have brought along a
copy of Oswald’s file ag it existed before the assassination so that
you can see firsthand how slender it was at the time. As I have
already noted, we have declassified the CLA documents in this file
with quite minimal deletions and we are providing them to the Na-
tional Archives. . ;

The records in this file dealt with Oswald’s defection to the
Soviet Union in 1959 and his activities after his return in 1962. By
contrast, it was only after the assassination that CLA accumulated
the rest of the material on Oswald, some 38,000 pages, most of
which CIA received from other agencies after November 22, 1963.

The Committee*has asked about documents in’ our possession
generated by other agencies. In fact, much of the material held by

IA originated with other agencies or departments. For example,
in the 17 boxes of Oswald records, approximately 40 percent of the
documents originated with the FBI and about 20 percent originated:
from the State Departmenit or elsewhere.

Our staff is still going through the-material compiled at the re-
quest of the Warren Commission and the House Select Committee
on Assassinations, which includes 63 .boxes of paper ‘records and
one box that contains 73 reels of microfilm. The microfilms, in
part; overlap material in other parts of the collection. We estimate
that. within the 63 boxes of paper records, approximately 27 per-

cent originated with a variety of other U.S::'Government agencies,
private organizations, arid foreign and American press. :

Although our documents do include-many documents from other
agencies, we nonetheless have a substantial collection of CIA docu-
ments that will require considerable effort to review, and as I said
garlier, at my direction, this review for’ declassification is ‘now un-

erway. oan ms mn

A preliminary survey, of these files has provided us some indica-
ions of what they contain. Although the records cover a wide vari-
ety’ of topics, they principally focus on CIA activities concerning

‘Cuba and Castro, Oswald’s defection to the Soviet Union, and Os-
wald’s subsequent activities in Mexico City and New Orleans. The:
also include a large number of name traces requested by the s

 

53

of the House Select Commi Assass: .
rial wot? mittee on inati é
fal ting to the Garrison investigation and Cuban exile nat

The CIA can: le Bi
cause of the limits i the Privacy Koes oeuments unilaterally be-
> eae Py . ich protect the names of
tion of m: 1 °
nations, and documents by the House Select Committar on uestra-

documents,

While I expect a lar,
‘ge amount of th i
under our program, I assume that there will bean pe

Privacy concerns or th :
ods. Let © exposure of intelli
ral. me take‘a moment to give an example of tra
During the investigati

‘ igation by the House
Sassinations, I understan, Pa ne House Select Committee on As-
requested on a number af CIA smploynen a Personnel files were

ness reports, : k
credit Chen or performance evaluations, medical evaluations, and

of this information outwei
i i on outweighs th ivacy i
"igual in Keeping the information confidentiel ores" the ind
i acy conce ist wi 2
atory information on articular indiigeee a ed containing derog-
: e) ; .

is based
who provided ug intelli
of confidentiality. We would not disclone information on @ promise

such a promise. Where names i
. we fs i in breach
Public, the Agency. will maken seclone such information to the

mation i ensure ° i
tion. is released, whi sll the maximum amount of infen
Privacy of an individual, "© ‘he identity of an agent or
iguiala on Hine tag tseed by. the Congress and si ed by th
and to provide reassuran FK papers, to enhance ublic Yenes
relevant to the emmrance, that. Back inference
guished Ameri assassination, I would appoint a 1 ormation
hia ‘Americans from outside of Government, perhae of distin-

have ; assifi

b redacted or kept classified, They would then ix
c classify the docum ing |

y resident Kennedy will be daunting Powe the

an tion ly will be dauni it i

portant program and T am ori be dai ting. However, it is

pi r i to mi it
community, I have ‘allocated 1 Feparees within naking i ork.

-time positions to expand the

 

 

 
13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page 2

Security file.’ We have identified references to one or more other possible Oswald files
including possible soft files designated a as follows: CI/SI, CI/SIG, CI/LSN, and
CS/LSN.

1. Please identify, as specifically as possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald
at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy.

2. Other than for the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each
Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the
documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination.

3. For the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please identify which records (and the
total number that) were in the file at the time of the assassination. ,

4. To the extent that Counterintelligence and the Office of Security
maintained pre-assassination files on Oswald, please explain why those
offices maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination. In
answering this question, please make appropriate references to the
Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB) and to any other materials
(including organizational charts) that would help explain the -
jurisdictional and organization reasons for which CI and OS would have
maintained such files.

For each question, please explain the basis for the answer and the sources (records or
persons) whom you consulted to answer the question. To the extent that you are not
able to answer a question completely, please so indicate and provide the best reasonable
answer. If, during the course of your research, you learn that any record relating to a
pre-assassination file or record has been destroyed, please provide us with all available
information related to the destruction of the records or files. ,

These queries should be interpreted in their broadest reasonable sense. To the extent
that you question whether certain responses may be within the scope of our request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we would wish to include it. We
anticipate that the responses to these questions will be referenced in CIA’s Final
Compliance Statement.

‘One Office of Security file on Oswald (or relating to Oswald) may have been
numbered 351-164. In addition, Margaret Stevens may have held an Office of Security
“MS-” file on Oswald.
104-10335-10014

 

 

10 4-/03235- 70014

; - 7
a | | \ y
\o

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

January 28, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Re: Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16
(Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)

Dear John:

- Under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44

U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994), the Review Board has the authority. to “directa .. .
Government office to . . . investigate the facts surrounding, additional information [and]
records ....” Section 70)(1)(CHGi). Pursuant to this authority, the Review Board is
seeking to resolve'in a complete and comprehensive manner certain questions related to
files on Lee Harvey Oswald that CIA may have held prior to the assassination of
President Kennedy. Accordingly, we request that CLA provide complete and
comprehensive answers to the questions identified below.

On May 12, 1992, Director Robert M. Gates testified to the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs regarding CLA’s records on Oswald prior to the assassination.
Mr. Gates testified that “[p]rior to President Kennedy's assassination, CIA held only a
small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents amounting to 124
pages..... “ (The Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1972: Hearing Before the
Committee on Governmental Affairs, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. 52 (1992) (emphasis added)
(copy enclosed). It is the Review Board's current understanding, however, that at the
time of the assassination, CIA held at least three separate files (including soft files) on
Lee Harvey Oswald: a 201 file (201-289248), an HTLINGUAL file, and an Office of

 

Boarp Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff - Kermit L. Hall + William L Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
13-00000...0 Sci

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page 3

We request that you make this information available to us by February 24, 1997. If this
does not provide you with sufficient time, please let us know, in writing, by what date
you believe you will be able to answer the questions fully.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Enclosure
Sot cet

THE ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT
OF 1992

HEARING

BEFORE THE

COMMITTEE ON
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES SENATE
ONE HUNDRED SECOND CONGRESS

S. J. RES. 282

TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS DISCLOSURE OF Kk ORS
RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT. JOHN FORKENNE DY

MAY [z, Hag

Printed for the use of the Committers ou Crverniientil Atior«

 

8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
ST-2aa WASHINGTON : 1992
For sale by the US. G ment Punting Ober
Supenatendent of Documents, Cong
ISBN O

 
 
 

tt Sales Otfice, Washington, QC dace?
039035~4

 
