13-00000

SECRET

13. Awe 1966

‘ 2. At 2730 bours, & June 64, the undersigned vas advised
' g@@ Bae residence that a itr, TOMEU (Subject) had called the t
gocwr ity number given him (351-6161) and left the peasage that .

would lite to tala agnie with Paul Stroud: (the underaiqned) .
euytine efter Lf0% bourse, 6 June,

t .

| " (@ERIECT: Recentact of Gliverio A, TOMES Vasalie. (201-283206)
3, Wpem arriving eat TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1eas. ’

Wabler Place &B, High Poist Apartment Rowse, Bashingten, D. ¢.), .

383@ hears, & dune, TOMEY izdiceted te Bis two daughters be would

lake te have gene privacy aad they sad hie wife, Caridad, left
the eportmant. :

TOMRY apologized ‘for not having recelled the nase an
as that of |. He reiterated . »
im hiding to escape capture by the Cubam Government }

gubeoquent te ais antaltration, be knew-only the first asses of

Be came ie contact, but. them added he keew
ao 4a whose bouse be wae hiding, because she.
: eas the wiater of . One of hia. infiltration toam .
a may. be. ideatiscsl wht ous :
-801—-289985; or one
. 801-2632908,

@. Om several ecearicns, according te TOMEZ, ‘he. was seated
at the table ais Age's bouse. wath several other people. Gue of
) hens . individuals, ae -“Coce,” ;
. &@ the seeretary to |. there wae not, however,
 @p dlesussions im whi Fees. © LLANUEA er hie (political
- . @gyugathies hevieg bees diesuased. ‘Agoerding to ‘a reaole

> Reetien 1% was “COCO” who wae ageceiated: with. he
ene aot avere of ony Freletiexekip beteces [7] ane
; aa @ sa jafermation aa ¢e what timeliy happened
: bio inZiltretion team mate, Be suggested
foat ag were evailable they may be able te

S@entaty "COSG" and. provide data on. aie. secconabAlity gor
@eatect.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. One Caiei COMRALES, forner Cuter ef the. Haynan ¥ire
Begarteent, wae ideatified ty TouKG SG another peesible lead

eg 0 a Me

   

co

 
104-10460-10207)

 

36 dune 1964

Per hia request, Jed Lt. Oliverie
Antonio TOMES Yasalle wes recontscted
oa & dune 64 at his place of reaid-

He provided additiesal details
‘aad

on j
ond “Ideati ried Osiel GONZALEZ aad one
ble leads to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eet tae at a ial ee

 

{
1

  
     
       
13-00000

SECRET

 

whe would kaow TOMNKY effirned Gsiel ess previcusl; .
with MEBUYO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Esceahray. Osiel
wae usder ssylum in the Brazilian mateasy (sic, Argentine —

, Sabassy?), when TUdKU gained political asylum, when Guiel ,
finally received hie safe conduct from the Umbessy, he seat
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel i now again
with NENOYO. in either the United States or Puerto Rico,

‘@. Two etap shots (to be returned) vere provided by. .
FOMLU. of binself and six other individuals who were in aeylua .
at the sewe time. Se identified these, in the photograph in te:
which is seated, ss :

legt to right: Oliverio TONEU, : .
(believed to be in US), Public RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALLE
(Mex?), amd Guiel GOMZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

 

 

 

 

 

7. Up-a completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU :
“eushanged small talk" for a while until] TOMEU finally stated
that he's still wished there was sonething more he could do to
belp free Cube, and awked “What do you think I should do?“
. Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of fo
: @ecision for another individual, and countered by aaking | TOMED oF
ehat alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the
UB Army as a career military officer.

&. TOE repiied that, of course, he was once an. ; ’ ‘ew
agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunitian in of
whieh he could apply his past experience. His sister had also .
6eked him if be felt he and ais family would want to. Live with
ber in Spain or Mexico, but he didn’t think too much of thia
idea, He then atated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTINE t
® %@ take #- job ag an instructor, Without indicating any
esgoctation of even awarenesa of ARTIME's activities, or of
ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (ag incicated in TOMEU's 201),
POMEY waw asked what he thought of ARTINE's proposition, :
: SOMES atated that he would no longer follow any man as ia :
deéividual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, autlowk, { :
aod objectives. change with time, For example, the people of
Guba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated, When
' Fadel took crer, hie ecconpliishasnis gradually became quirs
@asgevent from the ideale he had espoused, TOMEU continued
by saying he would “mo longer follow a man, One could only
@rust hia ideals or am organization which followed theae
§deale, eimee good organization would be less likely of:
being costrolled by a single maa." When ssked for an example '
@f the type of organization he hud in mind, TOMEU replied te | i
was gost favorably inclined tovards the ideals and goals of !
the SURE, (The JURE or JRC ie an organization crested by =. i a
Manolo RAY Rivero around « nucleus. of former 26 July Movesent. .
leaders, Bee nemo and attachment dated 45 July 1963 from Joba po
ugh Crinmins, Coordinator. of Cubag Affairs, ABA: Department i. é
28. Gtate in. *e@ 801~283206.)- 4 i / : :

‘SECRET.

 

   

eeaemeneememmmrmmanerell

 

   

 
13-00000

; SECRET

-3-

t
t

 
 
     
       
       
   

®. Et sbould, perhaps, be noted here that in aa informal
exchange with Ire. Dosald WEBSTER, TOMEU‘’s supervisor at the
Defense Laagusge Imstitute, Anacoetia Naval Annex, 4 Jame 64,
Bra, VEBSTER vyolumteered the information that. “all of the other
"Beigede etudents here’ have told ge they think very Bigkly
of TOURG, emé that he ig « very brave man, because be end. bis
: fauily vere very wealthy in Cuba and he gave at ark =p to go
a dato exile and fight the Castro Regine.”

 
