   

A0deiO1B 0126]

 

ot on

veeemeee cECReT

Office Memorandum ‘© UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

‘ : Chief, Contact Division,Atta: Support (Crowley) ATE. 22 oct 59 -
3 Chief, Detroit Office .

g gé

“t RB. 8. Rittenburg, Cleveland Resident Agent

ss
SUBJECT: Robert E. Webster

RSF: Crowléy-Rittenbury telec.n of 22 Oct 59, same subject
Travis-Rittenburg telecon of 20 Oct 59, same subject

- . i

1. on 20-Oct 59, Major Rober: Cochran of OBI and :.is probedle yep haces
ment in Cleveland, Major Carroll en,. dropped into the office of the
. Cleveland Resident Agent to ask goout Robert E. Webster. In the absence of
: . both Rittenburg an: En were out on previciély scheduled appoint-
. ments, they asked one of the Sécretaries about the matter but vere told by her
that they would have to talk with Mr. Rittenburg. . Coziran thereupon left the
following questions with the secretary négarding the Rend-Webster ease, to
which he-sald that “high level air force interests" wanted an answer. These
questions, telephoned to Bot Travis on the same day, are as follows:

 

&. “Is. this office doing anything concerning Webster's: defection?” ‘
bd. “If not, do they contemplate doing anything?" .
~ Ge “What would this office have done if Webster had returned normally?”

2. Barly on the 2lzet, after trying to reach Cochran unsuccessfully on {i
the afternoon of the 20th to find that hie Line was busy, Rittenburg tele- :
Phoned the latter regarding this matter. Rittenburg bad a secretary make
notes on the call, unwitting to’ Cochran. ‘Cochran's first question, after the~~
usual "hello", was "Do you have the answers to those questions?" Rittenburg
informed him, “I don't know anything about this man, only what I have read in
the newspapers". He asked, "Nothing offictlal?" to which Rittenburg reiterated
"No, only what I have followed in the presse". Cochran went on to say tuat "It
turned out it's not as bad as it looks on the surface. ie had no access to
classified material". During the conversation Rittenbury informed Cochran
that he had tried to telephone the previous afternoon, but had found the tele
epbone busy. lie algo expressed his regret that he had n.s ceen in for Cochran's
visit and puinted out that the latter should have telephoned abead. Rittenbury

. said that he was sorry that he couldn't be of any help ‘n the matter, to which
Cochran replied with “C'est la vie. Well anything I can do for you?” When
told “Not at the moment", he stated, "If there is, call re", for which Rittenburg
thanked iim before saying "Good~Bye". - .
. 3. It was difficult to understand why Qechran would attempt to make such
an approach to the Clevelend office, let alone expect answers to such questiona .
as he put forth. ae ;

VOR Cates Ree

 

ca

- : wet
. : MES R. MURPIIY ‘ ,¥ i q
ESR ttenoburg:ns . o vA ‘ . : N i? :

ae ie . : & .
File: Rotert E. Webster . St me) ‘i
Rand Development O.r. we, z\ fn we 4, 2
Major R. Ovciran, OST (USAF) cre Y : BI
its roi 4
- a
me ae commen ee
RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduge

py
