 

sey | te donut bs
elhuicd ; urd A ape

- 20 Novenber 1901

“MERON UUM FOR. THE RECORD , }lo. GG
SUBIGTs Letter from Dr. MRO Cartiona to Toronto. Star,
: Relative Medical Aid to Cuba Coummittes

1. Attached horcto 4e copy of Ictter sent 22 Novenber 1951, to the Toronto

Star by Dr. Jose MIAO Cardona. Apparently he wrote and mailed the letter the :

Bama day that ] proposed the matter to him ea requested by. WAVe. The letter oN a

‘apptars, unchanged .uxcept for two of three emall changes which I suggested he- - .. ot

might prefer and which, he agrecd toe : oo Lt
2. Drs MIRO's cooperation and immediate action typify his character and : ‘

manner of operating. ; . : ;

3. YT informed Pr. HIRO that I would advise him if we found in copies of the
Star that his letter had been made public. SS .

 

 

 
(foster ite?

 

 

 
 
 
 

PROCESSING

 

Chief, WHD

  

 

 
 

“Gacy Quai teta
PALQUARTERS ISH
fam TUTE PROTA

aasthact
cre)

    
   
 

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

 

[er IMZIP/KUCAGE/AMEUD/Operstional .

nami. VOX. Repo ft

* ff ACTHGE REQUIRED - REFERENCES

‘FYI. See below
Le P-A-1-O-H-I-2-¥

1. Under separate cover we are forwarding PASSAVOY -.
reports No, 57 through 70, .

2. No,.66 which concerns the "Letter to tho “Editor®™
“was done ot the request of C/CA/aH. Since we are not able:
to obtain on a regular basis copies of the newspaper in
question, it 18 requested that Hesdquartere ecneck the files
of the paper beginning with 23 November and inform WAVE
if the letter appears, AMEUD-1 would like to send it
subsequently to local papers, a

End of Dispatch
ATTACHMENTS _
Memo Nos, 57 10 (2 ea.) bie)

DISTRIBUTION 5
3 Chief, WHD w/atts, tuee) Perse

24 Flles w/o atts, 3
(Ay hood genet)

   

      

  

care Teeey ATE DiSFATCHED

39 NOV 61 | Nov 30 196)

ASR TON Srl AND NUMBER

UFGA~2781

WOR EIO TEMS FE NMOER

19-124-25/2

      

 

     
  

   

efit nM CC TTT re

   

   
 
 
 

A Pa Tiere Wed ok cere

   

oe
 

Mlamt, November 22nd,, 1961

Editor,

Toronto Star, .
80 King Str=ot, “Weet
Toronto, Canada

‘Dear Sir:

Information haa been received that a committee is circulating
appeals to the Canadian people asking for contributiona for drugs =.
“to be sent to Cuba, implying that supplies have been cut off and «
that the Cuban’ peeple cannot get such drugs because the United Sta
tes. refuses to purchase sugar, The committee is called the Medi-”
cal Aid to Cuba Committee, Station B, P. ©, Box 4, Toronto. 2B, -
Ontarto, -

Asa member of the Cuban: exile eommun!zy and one {ntimate=
ly informed of the oltuation in Cuba, I should Ike to set thia. matter
straight and point out the fallacy of this ‘supposedly humanitarian «
work which may be vietimiging the Canadian people, :

The hypocrisy of this appeal la evident to anyone who has studied

' the eeonomic policies of the Cuban government, which prefers to put ite

available foreign exchange inte the purchase of guna and tanks rather
than into food and drugs for its people.

Tho alleged argument that the cutting off of sugar purchases «
by the United Stites has prevented the purchase of drugs is fallacious
eince the Cuban Government boasts of its considerable saie of sugar
to the Soviet Union which prides: iteolf on its scientific progress. -
With this foreign exchange evailuble for Cuba, 1a the Soviet Union ~
unable, or ia it unwilling to send drugs to Gaba?

Fruerthermore, Fresident. Kennedy hae epecifically stated that -
there would be no total embargo pluced on Cuba aa he Intended that
food and medicines be sent to Cuba since he had no quarrel with the
Cuban people but only with thelr Communist dominated government,
There i@ ample exchange available te Cuba, for example from tremen
dous sales of tobaceo to the United States. Moreover drugs are being

sent to Cuba,

 

 

 

  

De ee cee ey Dye, Pen ek | en ee
 

 

>

 

{

 

_ Let our friends the Canadiana not be victimized by this propa
ganda-type campaign but éxamine ‘calmly and carefully the motives. «
behind the appeals ‘being’ made by the iiedieal Aid to Cuba Committee,

Sineerely yours,-~

. “fy
} } ;
Mrico Ouytn
Joos Miro Cardona
- President of Cubsa Revolutionary Council |

JMCims

eres
