 

( nets ¢(
Cavlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)
r’ .

.

Subject is possibly identifiable with, Carlos QUYIROGA,
a former student at Lousiana Stute University who was a
candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program, This
involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would
return to Cuba as agents in place. JMWAVE traces reflect
an individual of the same name was an electrical engineer,
residing at 3134 Derby Place, New Orleans, in December 1964,
Subject reportedly had homosexual tendencies, low morals,
and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter

and made anti-US statements. There is no indication that a

Carlos QUIROGA was ever employed by the Agency in any
capacity. ° : ; .

¥

“ate
Nea e

 
 

senena nme shee sega meter seen poe nnn Lace cere enmeee nanan |

 

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)
co: ,
DPOB: $16 Yebruary 1940, Havana, Cuba ,

Subject is. apparently ‘identifiable with Julian BUZNEDO
Castellanos, who arrived in the US on 10.November 1960 and
enlisted in Brigade. 2506. He was-a civilian pilot in Cuba
and served on the, invasion craft BARBARA J. BUZNEDO was ©
captured and released in the prisoner exchange,. (There is no
indication he was ‘ever employed by the Agency, other than
his participation: in the invasion.

 

 

 

 
6. A Miami report of June 1962 said that Subject was employed
1947-1949 in Mexico by the U.S. Department of Agriculture but was

fired for excessive drinking, discharging unauthorized firearms, and

non-support of dependent children,

7. The New Orleans States~Item of 28 July 1962 named Subject
as the source of bitterly anti-CIA remarks in a story which praises
LABORDE as a''good family man, completely reliable", and quotes a
Cuban refugee leader as saying that CIA and FBI agents termed Subject
aman of integrity. An anti-CIA article in the Denver Post of 3 June 1962

- also appears to be based on statements from LABORDE,

8. FBI reporting of August 1962 stated that LABORDE had duped
certain _persons into buying a schooner, the Elsie Reichart, by saying
that he and a crew would operate it for Cuban operations which the -
U.S, Government could not openly acknowledge but for which it would
pay handsomely.

 
/ SECRET sg

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECTS Lawrence J, LABORDE, 201-294688

1... On Jl May 1967 the headquarters office of the Domestic
Contacts Service telephoned the C/CI/R&A and said that Subject had
telephoned the New Orleans office of the DCS that day. Subject said that
he was an ex-CIA employee, that he feared that D.A. Jim GARRISON

. would subpoena him, that he was willing to leave the U,S, to avoid a

subpoena, and that he wanted the office to tell him what to do,

2. A review of Subject's file has led to the hypothesis that this
visit may have been a provocation, probably engineered by GARRISON
in an attempt to trap CIA into advising Subject. to leave Louisiana.-

Had such advice been given, GARRISON would have been able to buttress
his charge that CIA is attempting to obstruct the couxse of justice in
New Orleans,

3, The Miami Station requested a provisional covert security
approval for Subject.on 14 March 1961, The request was granted on
24 March 1961, (A PCSA approves contact for spotting and assessing
only. ) However, a 31 March 1961 cable from Miami requested per-
mission to increase Subject's salary to $700 a month and to pay him
bonuses, .

4, A Headquarters dispatch of 23 March 1962 warned Miami
that Subject was indiscreet, drank too much, and had an unsavoury
reputation, On 20 April 1962 Miami cancelled the request for an
approval, on the grounds that Subject was a poor security risk.
Subject had no later relationship with the Agency. Subject was bitter
about his CIA contacts when terminated and made reckless threats,

5. An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted
representatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC, Agency-created .
and supported) in New Orleans, his home ‘town; had offered his services:
and had said he was running a boat out of Key West, smuggling Cubans
and guns with the knowledge of CIA,

SECRET

 

 
13-00000

( (

Edward S. BUYLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of reference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA), sponsored
the New Ovleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after
her arrival in the US. INCA had a particular interest in
Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contain-
ing Miss CASTNO's declarations when she was surfaced in

Mexico, Cee who is Miss CASTRO‘'s business manager,
handled tHh@7planning and arrangements for the New Orleans

visit with 1W offici » The only subsequent contact
between and Edward BUTLER occurved when
BUTLER w cently in Miami promoting the INCA film on

"CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA". See Attachment 2 for a summary

' of the INCA organization.

 

 

 
qo
i

( ; wae aches

 

(

Albert VOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum) —
bPOB: 15 July.1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

1. Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillait, a
member of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner
exchange.

2. FOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents
during his early life and returned to the US to attend
scha@il in his late teens. He attended the Lenox School,
Lenox, Massachusetts, 1948-49; Louisiuna State University
1949.51, After his graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba
and married Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13 ‘

“August 1933, Brussels, Belgium. FOWLER was President of

the North American Sugar Company, Havana, from 1951 until
he returned to the US in November 1960 and enlisted in

‘Beigade 2506.. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,
and former US Ambassador William D, PAULEY, as references.
Following his release from prison FOWLER worked for the
BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, Paim Beach, Florida, where his
father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm
Beach, Florida, until at least late 1964. He apparently
lost his US citizenship during his years of residence in
Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance
parole status in November 1964 while he was still employed
in W. Paim Beach. He apparently returned to Louisiana
sometime after that date, FOWLER's mother lives in Coving-
ton, Louisiana, and he has a sister who is married to Fort
PIPES, Jr., member of a prominent New Orleans family.

 

 

 
 

1

( : (
Attachment 1

> .
Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

N .
“4. ‘Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first
arrived in the U.S. However, he became the FRENTE REVOLU-
CIOWARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) delegate in New Orleans prior

to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position
until the FRD ceased to function. The FRD was the predecessor
of the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and
supported by the Agency. The organization was used as a
front for vecruitment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion,
During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters
in Miami through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

. reportedly maintained extensive relations with the New

Orleans FBI-and Immigration offices. Two of his regular
FBI contacts’ were a Mr, De Bruce and the deceased Guy
Banister.

2. ARCACHA was also one of the promoters of the
FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA, INC (FDC) which was incorporated.
in New Orleans on 6 January 1961, This organization was
ostensibly. created by several New Orleans business and:
political figures, including the deceased former Y¥BI agent,
Guy Banister, to collect money to aid Cubans in their
fight against Communism, According to the articles of
incorporation, these donations would also be used to support
the FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,
less a pexvcentage to be retained by the FDC. An investi--
gation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded
that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain
of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA. The investigation produced no evidence that any

individual donations were ever solicited or received and
recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the
books of the New,Orleans Exporters Company be investigated
for evidence of personal gain and possible evidence of
federal tax evasion, since both the president of the New
Orleans Exporters Company, Gerard F. Tunague, and the Chie?
of New Orleans Stevedores Union, Alfred Chittenden, were
officials of the FDC, Approximately one month after the
FDC was created, strong criticism from some prominent Cubans
put the organization out of business.

3. Information in an immigration card reflects that

' ARCACHA travelled to Caraca LS, Venezuela at an unspecified

date, Wis address in Venezuela was HOTEL TIUNA, Cavacas,
and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

New Orleans. Passport No, 00433,

 
104-10404-10445

in

 

Ba

SECREV/RYBAT
’

WH/COG 67~194

MEMORANDUM FOR: ADDP
“.  C/CI/R & A (Mr. Rocca)

SUBJECT : : Garrison and The Kennedy Assassination

REFERENCE : CI/R & A Memorandum Dated 26 April 1967

1, In response to reference memorandum, WH/Cuban Operations
Group has endeavored to provide all available information on
individuals end organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and
7 of reference. Attachment 1 contains background information.
and biographic data on individuals obtained fron WH/COG and
JMVAVE files. Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa-
tion and Agency association with the organizations listed in
paragraph 5 of reference.

2. WH/COG will continue to review all material that may

contain information pertinent to this subject and will forward
such information to CI/R & A ona priority basis,

a

 

Attachment 1
Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2 : Y
Background summary of FRD, DRE, INCA

 

 
 

( .
4. Becuground information on the FDC and ancach,...s

connection with the organization was forwarded to the FBI

in CSCI-3/764, 414, dated 30 March 1961. Qthexr sources of

the above summary of information on ARCACHA are; DBF-G6955,

13 January 1961; DBP-91759, 11 October 1961; DBF~92355, 18
October 1961; CSCI-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929, 22 February
1961, .

ey

peer

 
13-00000

Oo oe

2 fot
tered,

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference memovindun)

Carlos BRINGUER is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER
Esposito, a former member of Brigade 2506 'who was captured
during the invasion, The personal history statenent in
Juan BRINGUER's 201 file states his brother Carlos, a lawyer
in Cuba, was 26 years old at the-time of Juan's recruitment
in 1960, :

ran

 

 

 

 

 
