 

 

 

ens

 

PWR ETI ee eto

NCH AERO EY SRY EAB A MERGERS EI SD EEE

gemwzne
Fy

1 PESTA tetecaanamanemuie nitnngeasinaonateen

We persuaded AMWHIP and AMLASH that it would be best not to have
further meetings with them in Helsinki, but that we could continue our talks
in greater safety in Stockholm and Paris. They agreed. AMLASH also said
that he felt that he shouldn't sc3 ANWHIP too mich more in Helsinki, as he
was beginning now to make some public appearances, and his presence was now
established to everyone in the city. Incidentally, prior to Thursday,

2 August, AMLASH had purposely refrained from making any public appearances
at the Festival because (1) he and the other Cubans had been aware of the
AMSPELL group and their announced intentions, and (2) AMLASH did not feel
very disposed to play the "Public Relations" man from Cuba and espouse the
"peace and friendship nonsense", as he called it. However, AMLASH also said
that he felt that he had better perform this role‘to some extent, as it was
expected of him by Fidel, and he did not wish to provide any unnecessary
chances for unsatisfactory reports to be seit back home concerning his lack
of cooperation with the Cuban delegation. In making the arrangements for

&@ Paris meeting and further discussions, AMLASH said, in response to the

questim, that it would be quite normal for him to be in Paris, as he had

already cleared this with Fidel, with whom, he remarked caustically, one
had to clear everything these days. He then expressed the idea that he
would Like to return to Paris, via Stockholm, and at AMJHIP's suggestion,
spend a few days there just relaxing. From there, or Copenhagen, he would
return to Prague for two days at most, in order to pick up his luggage,
then come as soon as possible to Paris, There, he intended to visit a
hospital or two, as agreed upon with Fidel, and spend a total of at least
aweek there. He said that if he was to return to Cuba to begin his

: .efforts, he did not wish to be away from Cuba any longer than necessary,

   

 

ae

 

Aa PERRIN oF contracted, ase

    

f
1

1
i
i
}

 

  
 
 

 

 

 

Soar 3

core

Annee samerraest eaeIRSE A ANNA eA AN

. ‘EERE EATER Gs OP eR gen in mn ete ha tanga

 

 

 

    
  

‘(He has, it is noted, a sense of urgency in beginning action against the

regime as soon as possible.) AMMHIP told us later that AMLASH also was

 

interested in a Pan American Migsdehased stewardess, whom he would have

come over to stay with him. AMMHIP suggested to us that he thought the

 

stewardess might be connected with PBPRIME. He based this apparently on
a remark which the stewardess made concerning AMLASH's political frame of

mind last year. We answered that as far as we knew there was no basis for

AMNHIP's thoughts along this line.) AMWHIP will try to get the stewardess
full name for us. ,
Meeting arrangements for Stockholm and Helsinki were laid on at

this meeting. AMLASH felt he had to stay until the end of the Festival for

cover purposes. Since AMWHIP had already accidentally run into several
people he knew, 1t was agreed that he should leave town for Stockholm in
the near future. We would remain behind until AMLASH left, serving as an : ot ‘
emergency contact in the event of change in AMLASH's plans, It was arranged
to meet AMLASH if absolutely necessary, at either 1200 or 1800 each day
at a given restaurant in the center of the city. Normal security measures
for the "emergency" meeting were laid on. In Stockholm, meeting arrangements
_ for Paris will be established. AMWHIP departed Helsinki § August and is

Presumably staying at the Palace Hotel in Stockholm; he will make arrangements

 

for accommodations for AMLASH there. We will follow AMLASH to Stockholm.
5. Helsinki Meetings between AMWHIP/1 and Fallucei,
AMWHIP and Fallucci were in public together only three times for :
any length of time. Other meetings were held in their respective hotel rooms.
One breakfast meeting (the Sth of August) was held in the near-deserted

caleba Ber a

   

Mabe Spee 0

 
 

 
 

 

PACE Rate ree act eerie ete herpes fone Mitte i >

LER aren

 

  

 

   

 

he felt that the Cubans there were completely penetrated by Castro informants,

 

§ cathe t

contract Cubans, Ondy re PBPRIMERS does he wish to deal. (Along this Line, |

é ke

and that for them to know of his cooperation with PBPRIME, would be the same .
: as telling Castro, and thus his future would end against the Wall! We |

7 assured him that maximn security would be practiced, as far as tiese people : ;

i were concerned. He also does not wish to trust or be involved with, any i “a “

AMAHIP stated that he ata not think it advisable to reveal any of these |
negotiations to AMCONCERT/1, whom AMWHIP has known for many years and is LO i
quite friendly, but whom he does not feel can keep a secret of this nature.) OO : ‘

This meeting terminated at 0030 on 2 August. The three participants : 1

took a taxi together back to tom. AMWHIP and AMLASH stopped off at a local x
night club, Teatey) Grillen, while we continued on to our hotel. No incidents . s , .
of a security nature wore observed, and it was felt that the meeting was os i

held without the knowledge or observation of the opposition. : !
h. Meeting of 2 August 1962.
ne Y LOC

We met with AMWHIP in his hotel room (No. 12 at the Vaakuna) at 4

 

1700 hours on 2 August. We discussed the events and talks of the preceding : '
evening for some time. At approximately 1800, AMLASH arrived, greeted
us affably, and joined us for a Grink. AMLASH used this meeting to re-

 

state his position concerning his desire for participation in a really
significant action against the Castro regime. Having decided by this time :
that further discussions and debriefings of AMLASH should take Place with

i.
:
|
Hy
i
i

a Spanish-speaking C/O, we outlined the idea to meet for such a Purpose in
Paris. AMLASH did not like the idea of too many people being aware of his
cooperation with PBPRIME, but agreed that it would be best in order to

tea, allow himself to express his ideas and plans better, and to be able to provide
i us with his information in the greatest possible detail. '

 
   

    

AUER ahha wee Se Retina ST, tat SHARES aides THEN

 

    
 
ee . ,
14-00000 le . 5

    

   

He feels certain that in a couple of years, the young people will be canpletely
and irrevocably won over to Castro, and that the masses will begin to believe

the intense anti-American, anti-West propaganda to which they are subjected,

 

Just as great as are AMLASH's fears about the Castro's winning of ee nk ee
. '
i
young minds, is his concern thet the USA will begin to consider a status i
guo for Cuba, and in the event of any intense and successful anti-regime

activity, such as he plans, and which looks as if it might depose the regime,

PBPRIME will withdraw its Support from such efforts in the face of serious
threats from the Soviets. Although AMLASH did not say it in so many words,
it was apparent from the discussions that AMLASH would prefer to be able to
free Cuba without any outside support (and by inference, obligations), but i
he is a realist enough to concede that any efforts to overthrow Castro , ; 7 |
must have the support of PBPRIME. He is, therefore, willing to enter into :
discussions with a representative (s) of PBPRIME towards this end, i :
, AMLASH agreed to meet in Paris for the purpose of further debriefings an ‘
and to give any information in any field which he has. He is also nost j
willing to discuss any plans which may lead to an overthrow of the present , |
government. AMLASH stated many times, however, during the course of the 4
i

i
|

meetings, that he was only interested in involving himself in a plan of

 

significant action, and which was truly designed to achieve rapidly his desire ; 4
to help Cuba. (He told AMWHIP later after we had left the meetings, that

he was afraid that PBPRIME would continue to pursue its present course,

 

that of providing money. and ideas » but no ACTION!) AMLASH was also most es Cree
“adamant about not becoming involved in any way with the Cuban ‘refugee

circles and organizations in Miami. He. said that he feels these are still |
“the same people who left Cuba, i.e. » Willing to wait for the chance to return
and again pursue their only interest , that of making money. He also said.

 

 

  
 

 

  

 

weeps enimeeene:

 

 

included two majors (one of which AMWHIP later reported was a militia
commander in the center part of the island) » two captains, and several
others whom AMLASH aaid he could trust, but whom he would not rane. :
AMLASH said he had had plans to blow up an oil refinery, as he felt that : 7 ,
the continuing existence of a semblence of normal funeticning in Cuba

depended upon a continuing supply of petroleum, supplies of thich, as we :

know, are at a critical stage today. He also wanted to plan the execution i
of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet Ambassador, and also to eliminate Fidel, oo :
_ by execution if necessary, He feels that if Fidel is eliminated, it would “4

  

be much easier to effect a take-over. (We listened for the most part, but

at this point tried to explain to AMLASH that men like Rodriguez could easily ed
be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Soviet Ambassador, would : . !
have only the briefest effect on the Soviet control of Cuba.) AMLASH was !
not too interested in listening at this point, and contimed by saying that ; |

if he could achieve all these actions, plus others, in one master stroke,
a take-over, during the ensuing confusion, would be mch facilitated. He : r
did not feel that Raul or Che would be able to rally the people in sufficient
time to prevent opposition forces fron forming. His arguments and Plans had
many flaws, but AMWHIP could not help admiring (to himselr) AMLASH' s

professed desire for vigorous and, hcpefully, effective actions, designed

 

to alter the situation in no uncertain terms. While we were making no
conmittments or plans » We pointed out to AMLASH that schemes like he envisioned
"certainly had their place, but that a lot of coordination, planning, information.

collection, etc., were necessary prerequisites to ensure the value and success

 

| of euch plans. AMLASH said he agreed with this, but we weren't too sure just

 

how much of this argument AMLASH was willing, or would be willing, to buy. : \

Lge anor emer ee

SERED Stem ANY aren aRCrNeERDt YR CoN cece arlete RtE AES TN AMREDII AT RESO SINE, EI CEN ER SOREN BE IM ER SPN ES

 

PECBIER Teac te oct ied meet te eee

   

 

eo

 
 

 

  

 

4

AMLASH made it clear during the discussions that he was completely

 

%

against Fidel's use of Soviet help from the first, but he had never envisioned,
that even If it were used, just how ineffective it really would be towards

solving Cuba's problems. He still feels strongly, he said, about ‘the ; ne

 

plight of the lower classes in Cuba, and in any future Cuba, he would still
insist on a new deal for them, AMLASH said that although he had not been

effective in helping the formation of a beneficial new Government in Cuba,

   

he was now prepared to work towards that end. This time, he said, he

wanted to look more towards the future, both for his own interests and for
Cuba's. The last time, he said that he thought only as far as the elimination
of Batista, and had not given consideration to planning for a government he
favored after the fighting was over. We felt that AMLASH meant that he was

as much concerned about his (AMLASH's) position in the government and
personal stake in a new Cuba, as he was about anything else. It is our
impression that AMLASH feels that he did not get his share of the spoils “oat
or power from the Castro regime, in proportion to his contribution against
Batista. AMLASH is a complicated personality. It is difficult to fairly

judge, at this time, AMLASH's degree of concern for a truly revolutionized

PO at

Cuba for the people's benefit, vs his concern to see a new government in

Cuba in which he gets just recognition. This does not necessarily mean

that AMLASH wants high political office, but he does want credit for his po

} F
pod

efforts and the resultant power and prestige among his countrymen.
In addition to his concern for the manner in which the Soviets are
using Cuba for their own designs in Latin America, AMLASH is worried about —

 

the extent to which Castro is using the Soviet technique of capturing the

 

minds of the young people and the mass propaganda efforts against the masses.

 

RESON TTI T8 TORT ENOEI ene sen a en PA RSEE DN CASRN SPS NEDNEID RAL! PE IMERPRSIN IP ARR ee

sean blbee statin amare

areinn semaeeieis in oe

 

COL RM EEE Oe as ate as

 

 
14-00000 . ,

   

cite thd gb

 

position in this matter. We closed the meeting by telling him that we

would have an effort made in the morning to locate AMLASH, and that he

might as well relax, sight-see i; he wished, and that we would te in touch

 

with him at intervals during the day.

2. Events of 31 July 1962.
Our efforts to locate AMLASH through UNRUMBLE/2 proved to be

fruitless. Theadore T. Wintergrst, who was handling UNRUMBLE/2, said

u that the latter tried his best, but had not been able to do us any good.
: The Station also reported that its contacts had been unable to aid us.
We reported to AMWHIP the fact that we had not located AMLASH, and suggested

 

that we have dinner together, to which he agreed. We met AMWHIP at 2100 7 of
at our hotel, the Kamp, and proceeded to the Royal Restaurant for dinner. : |

AMWHIP was obviously getting on pins and needles because we had not found | .

his friend. He suggested that we call up the Cuban Festival delegation, : |

POLIS Bh ae REE

or try some hotels that evening. We persuaded him that it was not the é !

best idea yet, and to give other people more time to locate him. He } :

 

agreed, but kept coming up with ideas all evening for ways to locate AMLASH. . 3

£
5
=
"4
4
#

He suggested that AMLASH liked night clubs, and that after dinner we could
a ee

 

perhaps try several. We agreed, more to placate him that with any thoughts

 

i
of success. We tried several, the Bruunsparken and the Theater Grill, : t
both of which were filled with drinking Finns, but no Signs of AMLASH. The
Finns, engaging in their national pastime, obviously irritated AMAHIP, and

  
 
  
  

after being pushed around in the Theater Grill for an hour, he said that

ANC a AYRE OR euounder ctaret = we eS A

he thought this was a waste of time. We agreed, grabbed a taxi and went
home. During the evening, we told AMWHIP that tomorrow morning, if nothing
had turned up, we would start by calling the better hotels in tom ourselves,

 

and try this rather laborious method to locate AMLASH. We agreed to meet

      

SSSA RSLS

 
 

roa toat40210

 

  

OT,

Sees TRL ECAR MARIS! AM He AL eT He

cae ieee ae name dere me Te

ea eet sceatenne a

So gree

 

  

  

Summary of Contacts with

AMWHIP/1 and AMLASH/1

HELSINKI:

1. Events of 30 July 1962.

AMNHIP arrived in Helsinki on 30 July 1962. He called HEFINCH
according to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porter's
abys&mal understanding of English), Fallucei established contact with
A4MAHIP without further difficulty. the meeting took place in the
restaurant of his hotel, The ‘faakuna, and later in his room. We had
not at this time located AMLASH, so the time was spent briefing AMHIP
on the local scene, and on his conduct with AMLASH when they met. The
meeting lasted about one and a half hours,

Later the same day we called AMWHIP at his hotel to report
no progress in locating AMLASH. Feeling it advisable to keep AMVHIP
occupied, we took him out to dinner at Fisketorpet, located in the
suburbs of Helsinki. The evening lasted until 1200, terminating with a
drink at the roof bar of the Yaakuna. During the six hours, we had an
epportunity to explain carefully to AMWHIP that in order for us to help
his friend, AMLASH mst be willing to follow our directions and agree to
certain conditions (already agreed upon by interested Hgs. parties).

AMWHIP realized that this was necessary, and agreed with our ideas. However,

he is attached to AMLASH, and will continue te look upon him in the most

benevolent and subjective manner. This being rather far removed from our
intended approach to, and opinion of AMLASH. AMWHIP will require handling
of a close nature in order that he fully understands and is aware of our —

er

     

FERN PEE TRIE Tee Roe

 

 

 

 
 

csunae

 

 

 

 

between 9 and 10 o'clock at our hotel.
3. Events of 1 August 1962,

AMWHIP arrived at our hotel at 0945 on 1 August, and we retired
to our room to telephone. Securing an outside line, our friend began
to telephone. We decided to try the local "pink" hotels first, the Klaas.
Xorkki, and the Torni. AMMHIP had no luck with the Klaas Korkki, but when
he called the Torni, he was told that AMLASH was there, and was connected
with room No. 201, A Spanish-speaking man (who was later identified as
the newly appointed Cuban Diplomatic Representative to Finland) answered
the phone in 201 and said that AMLASH was in the shower, and call back
later if it was important. AMWHIP left a message that he was from Mexico
and that he, "Carlos", would call back. During the break, we instreeted
him to be careful on the telephone, and to talk as if the opposition was
listening. He was just to be casual, greet AMLASH, arrange to see him,

saying that he was in Europe on business in Scandinavia, Prance and Switzerland,

and that hearing in Helsinki that AMLASH was attending the Festival, he
had decided to stop over and contact him. When AMLASH answered the phone,
AMWHIP's face lit up, caution was abandoned, and he was off at a rapid
rate in Spanish. AMLASH said that he would be right over to see AMWHIP

in his room at the Vaakuna. We briefed AMWHIP once more on being careful,

 

and showed AMWHIP to the door. We arranged to have AMMHIP call us when
he could at the office, urging him once more to be careful and discreet.
We hope he has been. It was later learned that finding AMLASH in this

hotel room was pure good fortune, as he was just using this room to take

a shower, since he was still residing in the quarters of the common delegates.

is

= vse

 

 

i.

li

;
i

 

   
   
14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

atts A CE PONS NENT LT TET TM

 

_ under enotional strain, AMLASH presented his feelings in a relatively cals

 

  

AMVHIP talked to AMLASH for at least seven hours, from about

 

1000 in the morning until approximately 1700 the same evening. When AMIHIP :
called us at 1730, he presented us with the fact that he had convinced
ayLASH to talk with us, and for this purpose, he had arranged a dinner
meeting that same evening for approximately 1930. we would have preferred :
to talk longer with AMWHIP about AMLASH's reactions, but time did not

permit. We arranged a dinner for 2100 at "The yhite Lady", a restaurant

 

some way from the center of town, and succeeded in obtaining &@ private

dining room, a practice not uncommon in this Station-recommended restaurant,

 

as it is often used by businessmen to have private dinners and afterwards,

business discussions.

We arrived at the White Lady first, arranged for the dinner, and pooh oes

. awaited AMNHIP and AMLASH, who arrived at 2110 by taxi. Although AMNHIP 3 ; i

had suggested to us that the discussions should be merely devoted to : 2} ;
getting acquainted the first evening, AMLASH commenced almost immediately : 1
into a discussion of his feelings and, his position concerning Cuba today.— :
As reported in our cable, [_}2609) AMLASH was quite intense, and showed
the strain of his unexpected meeting with AMWHIP. Although obviously

manner, and was given to discussing them throughout the meal. He said he

was cmsidering not going back to Cuba, but after talking to AMWHIP, he

felt that if he could do something really significant for the creation of .
a new Cuba, he was interested in returning to carry on the fight there. i
He said he was not interested in risking his life for any small undertaking,
but that if he could be given a really large part to play, he would use :

himself and several others in Cuba whom he could rely upon. These he said \

rman ‘
QTAAT a \
souaS t 4 ashe Ss.

-h-

      

 
