ALIAGHMENT B

Prot wae. . C “seers (Page 2
a DE al ;
Social Work: Salaries of 7 employees and expenses. $4,360
visa Waiver: Salaries of .5 employees and expenses. 3,160
Organizations: Salaries of 9 employees. 2,250
Brigade: Salaries of 3 employees and expenses for the Council's 1,627

' activities in connection with the Brigade, This does not
include U.S. Government payments passed through the CRC
to Brigade members and dependents.
TOTAL COUNCIL ADMINISTRATIVE’ EXPENSES oe eee ee oe 84,049
Propaganda: Production and distribution of written material, 21,629

radio time, posters, etc.

Underground: Payments to member groups of the Council for 16 ,500
: underground activities in Cuba. : ;

Latin ‘American Delegations: Operational expenses of the 4,204
Council's delegations. . :

Judicatura Cubana Democratica: Subsidy to Jurist group which is. 5,000
affiliated with the CRC. . . : To.

TOTAL COUNCIL OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY EXPENSES ....... 47,333

Brigade compensation. (payments to dependents) 297 ,377

 

Returnee (April 1962) medical expenses _ , _ _ 6,867

TOTAL BRIGADE SUPPORT nee ee ee 304,264

TOTAL, CRC FINANCIAL REPORT FOR OCTOBER ..... . 435,626

 

en
rr
GS
ma
oes
€ € . 6 OEE LL-/ b-OF
3%

 

16 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Meeting with the President ~ 5:30 - 15 Apr 1963
In Palm Beach, Florida

1. ‘Cae. 1 Lundahl gave a complete briefing on . the latest satellite
photography of the Soviet Union and-both satellite and U-2 photography of
* Communist China, we :

 

gen Be [Reviewed with the presi the the details of the Helms/ Angleton
: papers covering their counter~-intelligence work in the French effort to

i penetrate certain U.S. scientific areas. I recommended to the President

ii that we initiate.a program of misinformation, which the President approved,
| and Helms and Angleton were ‘instructed to proceed. The justification for the
Helms/Angleton activities were based upon intelligence received from

| Which was confirmed by the of a plan on the

part of the SDECE to penetraté cértain US scientific and nuclear installations. )

 

 

 

3. Discussed in some detail the Donovan negotiations in Cuba. Gave
the President a copy of Miskovsky's summary of the Donovan discussions
anda copy of my memorandum of April 15th on Cuba, President raised the,
question of Miro Cardona, stated that Cardona had misrepresented the facts.
I urged that the President not involve himself personally ina public argu-
ment with Miro Cardona.

 

I raised the question of the possibility of working on Castro with
the objective of disenchanting him with his Soviet relations causing him to
break relations with Khrushchev, to effect the removal of Soviet troops
.from Cuba, reorient his policies with respect to Latin America, and
establish in Cuba government satisfactory to the rest of the Hemisphere.
I. explained to the President that the Cuban problem must be solved in
one of two ways; either the manner outlined above or alternatively, by
bringing consistent pressure of every possible nature on Khrushchev to
force his withdrawal from Cuba, and then to bring about the downfall of
Castro by means which could be developed after the removal of the
Soviets troops (but not before) and thereafter establish a satisfactory
government in Cuba. I stated to the President that we were studying
both courses of action and I had not made up my mind concerning the
feasibility of either plan. The President thought both approaches should
be carefully examined and suggested the possibility of pursuing both
courses at the same time. In any event it was decided that we should

Cone
 

RESUME OF CRC FINANCIAL REPORT
. October 1962
Council President's office: Includes rent and related office

expenses, travel, and discretionary fund.

Executives: Compensation to 13 Council menbers at $350 a nonth.

Delegations: Salaries of delegations to Latin American countries

and in the United States, Delegations are locatéd in
Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile,
Ecuador , Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Panama, Santo Domingo, Uruguay , Venezuela, Washington, D.C.,
and New York.

‘ Payroll: Salaries of Council employees. The highest paid

employee receives $400 a month.
: : No. of employees

Dr. Mito's office 12

Comptroller's office | ; , iL
Office employees : ; 41
Mov, Rescate Revolucionario Democratico 15
Mov. Democrata Cristiano . : "13
Mov. ‘Agrupacion Montecristi . - 16
Mov. ‘Recuperacion Revolucionaria 9
Mov. 30 de Noviembre 8
' Mov. Triple A Independiente 5
Dr, Enrique Huerta's office 1
Ing. Carlos Hevia's office 1
Sergio Carbo's office 1
Newspaper men 6
Dr. Antonio Maceo's office 2
Propaganda office 6
Total employees on payroll - 147.

Travel: Travel expenses of Council members and employees .

General Expenses: Office rent, telephone, supplies ‘and equipment,
utilities, translation services, insurance, etc.

Military Committee: ‘Salaries of 16 employees and expenses.
Heroes and Martyrs: Assistance to widows and dependents of

Cubans killed or imprisoned by Castro and to other
appropriate individuals,

GROUP 1
Excluded ‘rom automatic)

 

SEGRET | onan

SL LAGNIMENE 5

$5,121

4,550
15,444

27 5782

1,078
11,431

3,865
3,381
13-00000 C / ATTACHMENT A
be SECRET =
DESCRIPTION OF FUNDS GRANTED
CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
1 May 1961+ 31 March 1963
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY: $3,000,000

Administrative funds are used for salaries, travel,
office expenses, and related costs of the Council.
At the present time $83,333 is granted each month
($1,000,000 a year) for these costs.

Operational activity funds are used for the Council's |
propaganda and underground operations, spécial expenses -
of the Latin American Council delegations, and sub-

sidy to the Jurists. . At the present time, the Council -
receives $55,400 a month for these activities,

BRIGADE SUPPORT: . i 8 300,000
April 1961 returnees:

Payments to Brigade members who returned from Cuba
in April 1961 were continued through July 1961.
Compensation (including bonus) payments amounted
te $1,000,000.

Non-returnees:

Brigade support payments for non-returnees (includes

_.60 prisoners paroled in April 1962, returnees in
December 1962, and members missing or killed in’
action) amounted to $7,300,000 for compensation,
bonuses, and medical expenses.

 

TOTAL FUNDS GRANTED TO CRC . 2. 1 eo «© © ee ow ew we wo 11,300,000

 

~ SEpRET
13-00000- . - arene

-5-

directly a result of the MIRO situation, there appears
to be a movement within the Cuban Brigade to organize
a formal request for the return of the Brigade flag,
which was presented to President Kennedy at the Orange
Bowl ceremony for the Brigade on 29 December 1962,

An attempt will be made to obtain the support of those
members of the Brigade who are stationed at Fort
Jackson and Fort Benning who will be on leave in

Miami over the Easter weekend. Subsequent to this,

it is planned to circulate .a letter to all local

Miami radio and T.V. outlets announcing the intention
of the Brigade to demand the return of their flag.

12,. We conclude from. the foregoing that Dr.
MIROts usefulness to the U.S. Goyernment and to the
Cuban exile community has come to an end, even if he
should reconsider at the last moment his decision
to resign. His resignation and.the probable
disintegration of the CRC is likely to usher in a
period of. intense political. manuevering and jockeying
for status among the various political gruups and
the many: self-styled leaders in the Cuban exile
community. It is not likely that this process will
result in any greater degree of genuine unity and
cohesiveness in the Cuban exile community than has
existed in the past.. More than ever, the prime.
target of these exile leaders in their efforts to
gain support and patronage will. be the United States
Government, without whose assistance, they are convinced,
no effort to unseat the CASTRO regime can be successful.

 

 

al
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

     

- ielaeetIcatlon:

 
13-00000

 

C | C

 

13 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

' SUBJECT: Summary Analysis of Funds Granted to the Cuban
“ Revolutionary Council for the Period 1 May 1961
through 31 March 1963

1A budgetary analysis has been prepared covering U.S. Government
financial support to the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) for maintenance
of its organizational entity and operational activity and for payments to
and on behalf of the Brigade.

2, Period covered: The analysis covers payments made from 1 May
1961 through 31 March 1963.

3. Organization: The CRC was formed early in 1961 and worked in
conjunction with the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD). ° The latter
organization provided the “front" for the Brigade forces before and after
the Bay of Pigs in addition to conducting propaganda and political action
activities. Although the CRC was not designated the focal point for
Cuban exile activities until September 1961, no distinction has been
made in this analysis.since the CRC absorbed many of the FRD activities.

4, Funding of CRC: Each month the CRC submits a request for funds ©
which is based on general purpose: administrative support of the Council,
propaganda activities, underground activities, special expenses of the
Latin American delegations, subsidy support of the Judicatura Cubana
Democratica (Jurists), and Brigade compensation. payments.

- 5. Financial reports: Monthly the CRC Comptroller prepares a
detailed financial report on the use of funds granted the Council. ‘This’
report is sent to the CIA representative in Miami and is then forwarded
to Headquarters. :

6, Summary: During the period 1 May 1961 through 31 March 1963
the CRC received $3,000,000 from the U.S. Government for administrative
and operational expenses, (Note: This figure does not include Brigade
payments which totaled $8,300,000 for this same period.) Dr. Miro —
Cardona, President of the CRC, receives compensation of $600 a month
($7,200. annually) pilus travel and related business expenses.

7. Attached are (A) Description of Funds Granted; and (B) Resume
of the CRC financial report for October 1962, a report which is
representative of the Council's expenses .

Ueslseiicatian

 
 

SECRET

to delete quotes from high level United States Government
officials and issue instead a “hard hitting" statement
based on the substance of the 25 page document.

4. It is Dr. MIRO*s opinion that when he resigns
the CRC will liquidate itself. He feels that the United
States Department of State had planned the liquidation
of the CRC as one of the last steps in the development
of a co-existence policy with the CASTRO regime. When
his resignation becomes effective, Dr. MIRO feels it

will be impossible for him to’ continue living in the
‘United States after all the furor created by this
incident. It has previously been reported that Dr. MIRO

might leave the United States to form an organization

‘similar to the CRC in another friendly country.

5. Meanwhile, there appears to be sharp differences
of opinion within the CRC and among other independent
exile groups and individuals as to the wisdom of Dr.
MIRO*Ts precipitous action in threatening to publish his
letter of resignation, thus causing the alienation of
the United States Government and the probable collapse
of the CRC itself. Dr.-MIRO is confident that the -CRC
will support his action and its members will, in turn,
use his resignation as an occasion for denouncing current .
United States policy on Cuba. According to Dr. MIRO,
the Revolutionary Students* Directorate (DRE); and. the
Association of Cuban Lawyers in Exile have pledged their
gupport to him and will make public statements in his
behalf. He claims that he is receiving messages of
support from Mexico, Brazil and Chile, some requesting
copies.of his 25 page resignation statement. A plan to
create a Hemisphere-wide organization to begin a
campaign to free Cuba is allegedly underway.

6. Dr. MIRO claims that the United States Government
is now taking the line of insulting and attacking him
and he has declared that. he "will not stand for being
insulted" by the U.S. Government in addition to the |
followers of BATISTA and CASTRO. He added that CASTRO*s
announced support of United States Government treatment
of him tends to support his suspicion that the U. 8.
Government is following a line of peaceful co-existence,

 
 

04-10306-10015) ~

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA : Deputy Director (Plans).

SUBJECT : Current Status of Cuban Exile Reactions
to the Resignation of Dr. Jose MIRO
Cardona :

REFERENCE 3 Memo to DCI, dated 11 April 1963;

Subject: Cuban Exile Reactions to the
Resignation of Dr. Jose MIRO Cardona

1. This memorandum is for your information and is
in response to your request for an updating of reference
memorandum,

2.. Our Station in Miami reports that Dr. MIRO has
called a meeting of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC):
for. today to reiterate his intention. to resign and actually
go.through with his resignation if: he does not. receive word
that the President wants to.discuss the matter with him or

' if he receives no indication from Washington that .there

is a definite plan for the liberation of Cuba. The final
decision may be postponed until 18 April, at which time it
is expected that Dr. MIRO*s resignation will be formally
accepted. MIRO would accept a military man, such as
General Maxwell Taylor as an emissary from the President,
but does not want to deal with a "Harvard Professor." MIRO

‘would expect this emissary to be able to point to specific

United States policies and programs for the overthrow of
the CASTRO regime.

3, Our Station in Miami further reports that Dr.
MIRO has decided not to release his entire 25 page
resignation statement to the press in its present form
as it is too long to be published in the newspapers except.
as a paid advertisement. MIRO does intend, however,

   

 
13-00000 .

 

 

He states that he has heard from "friends," whom he did
not further identify, that the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee might request him to testify before that
committee. Although reluctant to get involved in a
political situation in which certain questions would

be asked which he feels probably should not be answered,
he would, of course, comply, if subpoenaed. He has sent
word to Cuban trainees in the U. S. Army not to abandon
their training, having heard that a number of Cuban exiles
undergoing officer training had their bags packed ready
to leave Fort Benning as a result of the incident
concerning him.

7. ‘The Miami Herald of 12 April, speculated that
MIRO may be using the United States anti-raid decree
and threatened resignation in order to win support from
exile groups not affiliated with the CRC. A spokesman
for one such group claimed that Dr. MIRO was displaying ;
to exile leaders a letter from President Kennedy purported-
ly pledging United States aid to exiles in their fight to
liberate Cuba. According to The Miami Herald, opposition
to United States anti-raid policy has brought about exile
unity not seen since April 1961. UPI correspondent Adolfo
Merino is preparing a campaign in favor of Dr. MIRO,
according to Dr. MIRO. Merino allegedly told Dr. MIRO
that there appears to be a campaign in Washington to.
denigrate Dr. MIRO, and he intends to counter this campaign.
Merino algo stated that he knew the contents of Dr. MIRO*'s
25 page resignation statement although he had not personally
‘seen. the document itself.

8. A Miami Station source reports that the present
crisis between Dr. MIRO and the United States Government
has caused great and wide-spread pessimism in exile groups.
This is not due to any popular support which Dr. MIRO has
among the exiles, but because of the issue involved, i.e.,
the restrictions imposed upon Cuban exile efforts to
defeat CASTRO, and upon this issue the exiles are compelled
to support Dr. MIRO whether they like him or not.

'9, It is noteworthy that Manuel Antonio de VARONA
Loredo, a leading member of the CRC and one of the most
outspoken critics of the United States policy on.Cuba,
privately believes that Dr. MIRO has gone too far and too

fast in his dispute with the Kennedy administration.

 

 
13-00000

 

seen? &

-4-

VARONA understands that MIRO was asked by Washington |
officials to wait 30 days. before taking a definitive

. position and thus be able to view the crisis more

calmly, but MIRO refused. VARONA believes that the
abruptness of this action was. an error on MIRO*s part.
VARONA said that he is opposed to the publication of
MIRO*S. resignation because the document touches upon
sensitive and confidential areas and would be prejudicial

_ to the Cuban cause. He hopes that a middle course can

(Svee)
.Fulgencio BATISTA are reported to be delighted with

be found as a way out of the present crisis. There
appears to be some sentiment in the CRC to. continue the
organization with a new president. . Enrique HUERTAS Pozo,
head of the Cuban exile doctors* association, has

hinted that he would be prepared to step into the vacant
presidency of the CRC,

10, Dr. MIRO's rivals and enemies in the Cuban
exile ‘community are reportedly making plans to exploit
the political vacuum which they expect will be created
by the resignation of Dr. MIRO and the anticipated
collapse of the CRC. Followers of Manuel RAY Rivero
are reported to be pleased with the crisis between
the CRC and the United States Government and hope that
the split becomes irrevocable. If Dr. MIRO resigns
they believe that. RAY, with the backing of liberal
Latin American leaders, will become the principal
Cuban exile leader. Although Manuel ARTIME Buesa,
secretary general of the MRR and former political ‘chief
of the Brigade, has extended his support toe Dr. MIRO
in the present crisis, it is known that: ARTIME has
nothing but contempt for MIRO. This may, therefore,
be a political tactic to encourage MIRO to break relations
between the CRC and the United States Government and
thus place ARTIME in a more advantageous position,
vis a vis, the Cuban exile community and the United
States Government. One group,. the Peoples* Revolutionary
movement. CMRP), - which had recently decided to join
the CRC, changed its plan when Dr. MIROts controversial
resignation was publicized. The MRP leaders came to

the conclusion that the CRC was finished and they

thereupon entered into negotions to omalgamate with
the ALPHA 66 and the Second National Front. of the
Escambray. (SHEE). Followers of former President

MIRO*s difficulties and they now feel that MIRO is
getting what he deserves for having played the role
of a U.S. puppet.

il. In another development, related to, but sot

 
