   
  
  

  
   
  
   
  
      
   
 
  
   

yeannna
le
i ro

 

‘pdnitted Comaniat t Party nerber and ‘took part 8 n various
fin Cal4fornia over the yearn, 7 ;

 

Tha Subject roportadly assistad Ralph fi rf NUTTER during ‘the | a
Py RIOG and Alfred ULLOA, nenbers of tha Commmity Sar
_ NUTTER, according to Security Office indices, was a

j of Marrison Scott DROW, sscurity aoe bae se ia.

    
    

mt hs A oefation ‘with |

 

 

 

 

 

  

5o In viow of tho certification set forth | in your request, ne CIA
files other than those of the Office of Security have been searched in
sonnsction with this case. It 1s assumed that all pertinont inforsation
concerning Subject has been furnished pursuant to the provisioas of Clandes-
tins Services otion Noe (10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - =
Field Ho. ‘ :

; be]
The enclosed material should ba returned {n a soaled envelode marked for
the attention of the undersigned when it. has served, its purpose. :

i zOR THE DIRECTOR oF SECURITY:

         

 

 

 

 

’ Boetoaunen
- pec Bet 23 August 1959). ie ek
te te Reet? 155) § (ey Bi eae

      
 
 

 

104404 19-1023

 

 

 

 

 

 

. of bjo » cortain inforna
uns developed which appsars' to reflect adversely’ upon his ¢

professional activities and associates. This information, in_ ddition
_to checks of the Office of Security indices, is. sumarized a:

; : : Thre developed informants
: Subject's chefacter, reputati
_ that Subject; had “been” ina

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
  

      
    
    
   
  
   

   

; Subject was fined $45 for a 1954 traffic viol and
his , subsequent failure to appoar at the hearing. One informant adv
Subject, had recently been the object of inguiries by local police officer:
The inforsant believed this, action, resulted fron wnpaia parking

be
2 RE
a

   

 

 

Ce Subjects nane appears nunerous tines in subversd: 4
on the West Coast. These items contain information about Subjec
activities in the Denocratic Hinority Conference and list.
fessional associates. In 1949 he was listed as a menber o ;
conittes against loyalty oaths for lawyers.: He isis shown “as a. 1688:
associate of Vaite SPENCER, described by the files as a leftist,
his activitdes vere primarily concerned with local minor. ty groups.
Thesa activities | were © extensively reported

ie World.

 

  

Awe Mrs. Vento SPENCER ‘represented Tassia FREED, + a non-cooperative :
vitness before the HCUA, Tassaia FREED.{s the wife of Exil FREED; an- ;
adnitted Communist nenbare (Security Mifhoe indices also reflect that.

 

   
    
 
  
