 

 

 

 

 

 

‘ A

John D. Morrison, dr., Esq.
October 1, 1974
Page 2

 

Page 73-74 (78): The phrase ja Chinese newspaper" has been
substituted for "the English language ', Thereafter, where
the name of the Shanghai Post appears, the words "local paper" have been
substituted. Also, the phrase “agent-journalists" has been changed to

"friendly journalists".

On pages 80-81 (87-88): The phrase "one Communist embassy"
has been substituted for "the embassy ', Corresponding

changes have been_made thereafter,, such as the substitution of "the
Commaniste” for. PS

On page 115 (125): The phrase “clandestine facilities" has been
substituted for "clandestine listening posts". Further along, the phrase

what we could do in our coyerage of local targets" has been substituted
for "that we were| BK

The above represent all of the changes which you absolutely
required under the Marchetti decision. There were also a few other
changes which you suggested and to which Howard agreed, and which
have now been changed in the book:

On page 57.(60): The words "other members" have been
substituted for .

On page 63 (67): The phrase "an OPC chief" has been
substituted for "Frank Holcomb".

 

On page 220 (239): The words "once was" have been
substituted for "had been" with reference to the alias documentation
which the C.I.A. had provided. Incidentally, we decided at the
publisher's strong urging, to leave the phrase “alias documentation”
intact, rather than changing it to "old documentation".
     

[toetotosttzro}: «

 

sad . OBER, GRIMES & SHRIVER ;
LUAM A.GriMes BDonaun.C.Greenma:

i Aa Hicnouas, Suniven, JR. ATTORNEYS AT LAW JOHN T. Waro
: ut BriGny, JA. 7

Rosi 5
! Ranpatt © COLEMAN 1600 MaRYLAND NaTionat BANK BuiLoING hrcnon Foun
+ i. URNE
} Jeraro J.0,
Jervis SPENCER FINNEY BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21202 . Sonne HWese, it

Lewis C. Stavowicn
MANFRED W. LECKSZAS Rosear ¥. Barron,

 

THomas B. Eastman oan . sen
Grorce T.TWLER AREA Cope 301 sf RAY 0. BERENT
Wituiam L. BALFour TELEPHONE 685-1120 : Tnouas @ bet
Wiiwiam C. Taimere, Je. Caste Aopress “RitNer” THOMAS W. CEDER MAY
Wituiam A. SNYDER, JR. Tevex 68-7774 enied

Ricwaro R. Jackson, Jn. JOHN C. Batowin

Franx H. Weiter, JR.
Frann 8. Oacr
ROBERT W, Wittiams
J. REMAN McINTOSr
NSEL

 

October 1, 1974

peti

HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL

John D. Morrison, dr., Esq.
Deputy General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505

 

Re: Autobiography of Mr. E. Howard Hunt, dr.

Dear Mr. Morrison:

seg Bes ' I'm writing at your request to confirm our several telephone
calls of yesterday.

Following discussions on Saturday, September 28, I went to
New York yesterday to inform Mr. Edward Chase, Vice President of
G. P. Putnam's Sons, Mr. Hunt's publisher, of the several changes
which you had requested and to which Mr. Hunt had agreed. As you
know, the publisher was quite unhappy about making these changes:
For one thing, he feels that certain matters of principle litigated in the
first Marchetti case should be reopened in the courts. For this reason,
I chose to place my primary emphasis in talking to the publisher on the
fact that Howard had agreed to these changes for reasons such as
decency and patriotism which seemed good to him, rather than that
the Agency had requested or demanded them. I'm happy to report that
following long discussion this approach met with success.

 

 

The following four changes required by you under the first
Marchetti decision have been made:

 

ace TDA.
- senor 150 C87
r ; hs Rep oUuse
 

 

 

 

 

 

John D. Morrison, Jr., Esq.
October 1, 1974
Page 3

Mr. Hunt's manuscript is now in what is called the blue~copy
phase, which apparently is the penultimate step prior to publication.
The pagination of the blue copy is slightly different from that of the
bound galleys, because of the insertion of photographs and footnotes
in their proper place. The blue-copy page numbers appear in paren-
thesis above.

Although I came away from my meeting with the publisher
feeling satisfied, you understand that I cannot vouch for the fact that the
changes which they promised to make will in fact be made in the final
version of the book. However, Mr. Chase's demeanor, and the air of
urgency which he conveyed, lead me to believe that the changes
mentioned above to which the publisher has acquiesced will in fact be
made.

I want to take this opportunity to thank you for the
reasonable and fair~minded attitude which you and your colleague have
brought to this task, which I am sure is an unwelcome one for you.
an}

”

eed yours, Qo

Li Lee p/- “E : i
J Mien, ‘Snyder, eT le \ A

WAS/edd
74-0000

OBER, GRIMES & SHRIVER
ATTORNEYS AT LAW

IGOO MaryLane National BANK BuIlLoINnG

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21202

-,

HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL

é

John D. Morrison, Jr., Esq.
Deputy General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. G. 20505

oe
a

NPPROE EY F
cin HISTORICAL, REVI

 

TES.
