74-00000

NAME : John Limond Hart
DATE OF BIRTH : 3 October 1920
CITIZENSHIP : U.S.A.

CIA CAREER : Approximately 24 years with CIA,
during which,.h lef of

 
 
 
  

 

 

Also held
eadquarters

OTHER CIVILIAN

GOVT SERVICE : Special Assistant to Secretary af
the Treasury for National Security
1972 to 1973.

EXPERTISE ON

SOVIET. DEFECTORS: Has written two extensive studies
of Soviet defectors, including one
on Nosenko. Has also had cen: Yr
experience with Soviet intelli
and counterintelligence activi
while serving in various capacit
in the United States and abroad.

    
 
  

 

 

RETIREMENT : Retired from U.S. Government in
after 31 years of combined military
and civilian service.

 
ng 10126-10318

 

. . . ¢
; oo RETURNTO CIA. yy 47 “MCX yy
Background Use Only HSCA

Do Not Reproduce
| OLC 4 78- $¢, wy |

SUMMARY OF MR. HART'S PRESENTATION

 

I. Defection as a Psychological Phenomenon

Misinterpretation of Nosenko's reactions will
be covered within the context of failure to under-
stand the stresses to which he was subjected as a
defector.

If. 1962 Contacts

Factors leading to an inaccurate record during
the 1962 meetings will be covered.

III. The Role of Mr. X
The influence of another defector -- to be
referred to only as Mr. X -- will be indicated as

resulting in misinterpretation of many of Nosenko! s
statements.

IV. Confinement of Nosenko

 

Details of the confinement will be outlined as
they relate to possible misinterpretation of his
statements under questioning during the period up to
his being reassigned to the custody of the CIA Office
of Security.

The entire presentation will be about 30 pages in
length when reduced to final written form. Mr. Hart's
presentation will not specifically address the question
of Nosenko's statements regarding Lee Harvey Oswald.
Mr. Hart, in studying the Nosenko case, deliberately
disregarded the Oswald aspect of the case inasmuch

as it had by and large been handled by the FBI.

Mr. Hart will argue that, inasmuch as Nosenko is a
bona fide defector, his statements regarding Lee Harvey
Oswald should be accepted as having been given in

good faith and to the best of his knowledge.

RO4S_3
