 

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

: but without:; any conclusions as.to its. si

 

 

The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was. poor,
Cole man raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and
Ryan gaid he could talk-to Karamessines- if he Wished, Because ~~
Coleman. had a-close personal. association with Karamessines he.
did just that, He was told by Karamessines that he didn't know much

about it cither--"Helms said send him out."' He was instructed: to go
ahead. .

~. §, “In early July 1966 (4 July) Coleman Ww ent to’ “Madrid. He *

"had & ten day tarnover with[__—s|- Hunt had already: ‘gone and

he did-not:see him. [___baid he didn't know what Hunt did, byt

; that Coleman need not worry because he was gone. sep vat

. 63 Séverat months ago was at a seminar at which
Ambassador Woodward was also present, At the time he asked
about Hunt, Woodward said it might still be dragged inte the’ press.
Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to

‘Spain, Colernan observed that Szule did have a long article.on Hunt

in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned, .
ificance..

   

“7. Goleman said ‘the RYBAT file of ¢/EuR may have sometting-o on,
the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much moré.

ay, So Pos, aA
Ss. Dd Breckinridge

  

 

 
    
   
 
 
  

:
i

 

 
 

~ . _~

22 February -1974 ;
LG Fate Ul Fab 3K
ey

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

   

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt--Madrid Assignment

mr REY,

: 1. On 22 February -1974, Mc. Frederick N. Evans
~i-and the undersigned interviewed Mr. Udward Ryan,
_Chie£, Staff D, Deputy Director for Operations, on.
the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. During the period .-
‘of Ny. Hunt's assignment as a Contract 42582 A-agent ..
to Madtid between July 1965 and September’ 1966, Mri 0
Ryan had been the Deputy Chief of the Western European |”
Division, Deputy Director for Plans. The purpose of
- the interview was to determine if Mr. Ryan had any) 4
‘information bearing on the matter of the operational tN
-rassigament of Mr. Hunt during this- period. © .. 0

 

paras 4!

   

; 2. Mr. Ryan stated that the assignment of Mr.
Hunt both to the ‘Guropean Divisidn and to Madrid was -
handled without. benefit of the routine processing ©
procedures through the Western European Division.
Mr. Hunt's assignment was coordinated and dlrected--
by Mr. Thomas Karamessines, the Assistant Deputy Ditector
for Plans. With regard to operational duties, Mr. Ryan.
was unaware of any specific project or target for Mr, .
Hunt. Mr. Ryan made the specific observation that if
. Me. Hunt produced positive intelligence on the Iberian ~
“- target during this period the officials. vesponsible: |
. far this effort within the Western European Division
“were totally unaware of it. - - re

 
 

   

. 3, Mri Ryan’ statedsthat. most of hig ‘knowledge of |.

. Mrs Hunt!s activity and the nature of his assignment... .

during this period came* more through heaysay than on
direct official knowledge... For exanplé, he cited the

* comment nade by ‘a. mutual acquaintance of his’ and Mri: De
Hunt's to the effect that Mr. thint stated: that while

-- in Madrid he was going to "play golf and write books.™.

Me. Ryan was asked specifically whether or not he was .

  

z
3

 
 

 

 

 

 

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

A 1 ‘spoke with. Rig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain,
.had spoken with him. back in August when we were inquiring into
Feported activities involving Mrs. Hunt... vo tag et ew

  

_ 2% ‘Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964
(by ‘which he fixed. the time), and took over the Iberian desk, Bill
Ryan \ was C/EUR {or was it WE Division at the. time). In early autumn
‘Ryan said that he had just been-informed by the DDP (Karamessines)
that Hunt was to be assigned to las DCOS, as a directed assign-
“ment by Helms, A memo was prepared and sent to the COS,
~ (now retired). There-was.nothing further for about a month when ‘Ryan’
called Coleman in and. showéd hitty A RYBAT letter from stating. |
that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the

Embassy. |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. : Woodward-had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt
was COS Montevideo, He hada low opinion of Hunt and was counting
the days until Hunt left... The President of Uruguay visited President.

Eisenhower in the;States, ‘at which time he requested | a personal favor-- -

that Hunt be ‘reassigned to Montevideo, - So Hunt took another tour.
Woodward was outraged, and had his revenge ‘in 1964 when Hunt was -

te be sent.as DCOS —

 

   

4, After a couple of month’ early 1965--Ryan called ‘Coléman
in and; observing that! thete was more than one way to. skin a cat, :
atold him that Hunt was going to Spain’ under nonofficial cover, This
didn't require anything special, Ryan saying’ that he. didn't know , -
much about it. It came to.him from Karamessines.on Helms! order. _
Hunt was to have the telephone: number’ of the COS, but he would do
nothing for the station. Hunt was'to submit administrative’ vouchers
_ for. reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman

“a gaid-he nsver saw Hunt before. he went out, -He knows that theré was

no operational reporting, to indicate that Hunt was doing anything.

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

SECRET

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt \

6. The Office of Finance has “not found operational
expenditures except for the $1,600 mentioned above.
Therefore, it is suggested that Me. Karamessines be questioned
as to a project or projects to which Mr. Hufit's operational

- expenditures if incurred would have been charged. -
ea a Cee es oe

; 7, Another possible course of-action is to request the
Director to approve my, asking| at Chase. "5
Manhattan Bank to provide ‘a, transcript of & Satries into. nn)
Mr. Hunt's ‘Chase Manhattan Bank account. : nee ES

 

 

t e . :

‘8. We are currently reviewing. records of all cashier's
checks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if- any . F
were payable to Nr. Hunt. Hopefully this effort will be. 3
“finished by the end of the week. : . . i

   

iS
a
5
=
3
Ba
3
3

     
   

1 PRENSA See

      
 

 

!

S skeet

“ 27 FES 1974

‘MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General
SUBJECT: Howard’ Hunt

 
 
  

eo:

   

+. At the recent request of ‘the Deputy Director: for
Management and Services, the Office of Finance has searched -
its records to deteriiing if we could find any payment to

 

Mr. Hunt’ in an amount of approximately $30,000 that required
; no accounting. oo Lone : : . :
, 2..-We have searched, the following records: soe ..

a. The expense runs for the period July 1964 to. —
June 1973 for the immediate, Office of the DCI,
the immediate Office of. the DD/P, FI Staff, 7)
CI Staff, -CA-S f and the Office: of Security:
We have checked Various items that were ‘re- 0
‘flected in these: expense records but have
identified nothing rélating to Mr. Hunt.

b. the Lov] Station, JNWAVE and FR/Washington
: Office accountings to determine if there were |
. funds passed by ‘the Stations to Mr. Hunt during
‘the year he served under non-official’ cover, in ~
Madrid. We could find no payment .to Mr. Hunt
either in his true name or his two identified
pseudonyms. cet Ba os
-.¢. Mr. Hunt's travel claims. for the period | ~
~ 1960-1972 and have. found: nothing in these :.
. travel “claims: that were fot consistent with — ~
 pormal travel expenses » i.e., transportation,

     

“per diem. .
‘ a ‘We nade a. specific ’analysis of Mr. Hunt's.
advarice account for the period. he was under .

non-official cover (July 165-Sept 166) ‘and have™

 

£2. IMPDET.
--CL BY: 006567

   

 

 

peace tins ee tae

 

 
 

5

SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

‘determined that $33,500 was advanced. to hin.

for-travel and transportation of household

goods to and from Madrid with one trip to

Paris for he and.his family to renew their

Spanish visas. All of this advance was fully
-. . accounted for.._However, in his accounting,

-’s one item appeared unusual. It was an
expenditure of $1,600. for a-sensitive -
opération which was approved for write-off ‘by Mr.

Joo... . Desmond’ Fitzgerald on 1 June 1966 without 7
Te further ‘accounting. . se

 

   

3. Also, we confirmed. that no other Agency advance accounts

were established for Mr. Hunt during this. period,

: 4. At the beginning of his non-official cover tour, it
was necessary to establish a bank account in his name. The :
EUR Division accordingly requested we open an account at ‘the
Chase, Manhattan’ Bank in Mr. Hunt's name. to receive all non- —
-salary payments (Mr. Hunt“had an“account at Riggs National -
Bank to receive his salary and allowance payments). The -

following: deposits were made to the account during 1965. and~

 

 

 

  
   
  
 

1966: |
- Account opened: 23 July 1965 i oe - Boe F
a3 July 1965 $20, 000" a Lt
22 July 1965 "  $,000

1S September 1965 — “§,000°°

_ 6 Oetaber 1965 2 S40
19 July 1966. 8,000,
ee an $50,000"
“All of the above have been-accounted for by submission.
of .travel and ‘transportation accountings. —~ vos

S$. We feel at this time without specific- guidelines that.
further searching would be :sonewhat” fruitless.. One strange ~ i
aspect of the non-official cover assignment in Madrid is that i
2 all the costs were charged to the support allotment of the :
2 -EUR Division which is.not normal as non-official cover people
- are usually assigned to a project. It is unusual to have a
° case officer abroad for one year on an operational assignment
without hin incurring operational expenditures. .

 

-2-

 
 

 

ce SECRET

9 May 1974

NEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO a
SUBJECT 1 watergate File Research:- Fina? Report:

eo ates

 
  

1, The: files. of the immediate fice of the Chief, OPS/0SG
‘have been checked for material ’ ant to the ‘subject, of this.
_ memorandum, The. check included -c ironological files.of communi--
‘cations of which’ I-was the author while assigned to”
ta the period daly, 1970. to. uly” 1973. Nothing pertinent was found.

!, ud have att tempted” to recollect any other details which.
. conéeivably could be partinent and which relate to the’ period.
-_ of my assignment. a The only points which a recall but
On. which. I ‘have no locumen ation are these: -

a There were occasional: ashing: “Triquities ‘made of me
~ by. ‘ameFican. residents of aout ‘the’ reported’ presence”
“in Spain of €. Howard Hun My standard. reply was
that I knew only. what I had - reard Pimeede ‘For the record, -

at no time did-Hunt contact.me, and1 have never known of his

~~ having tried to contact. any Station “personnel in during
. ‘the period. 1970-73. I made. ino effort personally to ascertain

 

 

 

 

 

whéther “or not.-Hunt was. in Spain, and had no effort made. by. .

“vany Station’ member.

 

bs A. Station officer, possibly] y-now ¢
_ assigned. to s-was given . some information by an.
Wnfornant in” 1972. concerni “reported activities in-Spain._
. I suggested. that-the inforation. be given .
informally to.-the Embassy's. Econa jiic Section chief, ‘John
Oliver. That officer was. eee with Keepieg abreast of,
developments relat
‘that subject, as T

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

me “report ble Interest, ‘accord at requi ‘ments of ‘the period. aa

 

£2. weer
e€L BY 058759

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10173-10132

 

; activities of Barry Goldwater. ;

. directi
* becarie. costtii—“later, after Hunt left Spain, and ‘could provide

- keeping, files.on Watergate.

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD’

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

  

ake “I phoned Pa 1
3 had some. leads: that: ‘could ‘be followed ‘by. whoever hai 3

   

 

1964, wher he was ¢ alleged | to have been engaged in surveillance”

“2, Isaid that our. files ‘showed, Hunt was in DO Division (Burns  . ~ i
was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as-the predecessor. :
of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington

‘field‘office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division . , i

 

 

 

Chief of DO Division. ‘and now DCOS might be in a position to
give 4 few groups on what Hunt was ‘supposed to be doing then. 1 : 4.
suggested that he be queried by cable, Burns said Gaines is staying ~ 4g
on under contract for a while, go would continue to be available,

 

 

3. ‘] eaid that Fig Coleman was on the Iberian ‘desk when. the
Hani assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and:when Hunt . 5 .
ent.to the field in 1965. He could give the background on the assign- . ¢ i
which | seems to have. been through Karaméssines at Helms!
His recollection: would give leads. told him that, Coleman.

 

 

   
   

 

infort ation on what Hunt did not do for the Agency: during that period.
< queried,

    
     
 

sure we “know the facts. .

 

 

“be T asked Burns to bé sure that. we aré on information ‘distribution yO

of. cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility, for
He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for

messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. f ‘said ' we are. 3 ne
available for any help we can give. . Poo :

S$. D. Brecknpidge

 
 

 

we SECRETE

-2-

wooo SUBIELT: ‘Mstergate Flic Research = Final Report (cont'd)

3 There is. no. other employee assigned to wy ‘Gmimediate ;

TOFFITE Who has’ relevant personal “knowledge of events and
personal 4 ties. . .

 

Robert £. Owen
Chief, OPS/0SG

Qh #0

 
74-00000

 

a conga

   
     
    
  

  
 
 

CJ unctassitiéo Oy Mh aN, _ O) CONFIB_.THAL Oy secrer
__ | susiect. Ores
: | ina —- .

 
  

COMMENTS {[Nembav doch coimmint te thew fom whee
1% whom, Drow fine’ oxroes column oher each comment.)

 
 
 
 

ovnicen's’,
1}. MTA

       

 

 

 

   

fee PD ares ee enee Tr emerenoueras mo OENTERMAL 7 ties eeescien
