74-0000

- 8 -

SECRET

of DDP memo dated 31 January 1964, p. 8.)

"h. Originals of the thirty documents

' from CIA's dossier on OSWALD which were for- .

wardéd to the Commission under cover of DDP
memo, No. 4-1224, dated 6 March 1964. (See
attachment to that memo for inventory of

, documents.)

-"¥. Machine run sheets on documents
accessioned to CIA's dossier on OSWALD.

"3. Mr. STERN stated he had a keen interest in

Agency programs for electronic data handling of in-
formation. I pointed out to him the up-dated machine
control record on the contents of the OSWALD file,
and suggested that I was sure that Mr. .HELMS would
be pleased to offer him and others in the Commission
the possibility of viewing the Agency's data pro-
cessing mechanisms. It was also noted that a consi-
derable effort had already been made by Mr. HELMS'
subordinates to interest members of the intelligence
community in an interagency approach to the machine
control of counterintelligence and security informa-

A presentation had been made before the ICIS

',on this matter and an article had been prepared for

Studies in Intelligence. I promised to make a copy
of the article avaiable to Mr. STERN.

"4. Mr. STERN was eager to view our actual

meashanisms for machine control of our information.
and readily accepted the suggestion that a briefing
take place. It was indicated to him that he would
becontacted by CI Staff's Machine Records Officer
who would arrange the details for the presentation
in the near future. ; ‘

"5. Mr. STERN volunteered oneepoint in the dis-

cussion that the Agency handling of the information
in the OSWALD case was unique among what the Commis-
sion had found had happened in every other agency.

He was critical of the Navy. He raised specifically
the question: why had the Navy not forwarded the
photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD requested by the
Agency? He added that there were six or seven other
points on which the Navy had been gigged by the Com-
mission and there would be discussion between him and
the Navy in the near future. He stated flatly that
no Federal component except CIA had been able to show
the Commission hard documentation whitch indicated
there had been immediate action on field reported
information by headquarters and full instructions for
follow-up. Mr. STERN tended to equate this perfor-
mance to the way we handled our data and for that
reason placed great. emphasis upon what the Commissi <u
might be able to do in its report for an improved
methodology based on machines among departments and
agencies involved in security matters." ;

BS April 1963 ; :

) Memorandum for Deputy Director for Plans, dated 13
April 1964, by David E. MURPHY, Chief, SR Division; Subject:

* Discussioris with Mr. Allen W. DULLES on the OSWALD Case.

"1. <At the instruction¢ of the DDP, I visited Mr.

DULLES on 11 April to discuss with him certain ques-
tions which Mr. DULLES feels the Warren Commission may
pose to, CIA. Mr. DULLES explained that while the Com-
mission wished to clarify certain aspects of the OSWALD
case in which a response from CIA seemed necessary. it

AM per
§ ir
-~ 9

was not sure how cndRuBEL sons should be posed
nor how CIA should respond. Mr. DULLES hoped
that our discussions would enable him to advise
the Commission on this matter. He first raised
the allegation that OSWALD was a CIA agent. He
mentioned two sources for this accusation. One
was Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD, Lee Harvey OSWALD's
mother, and the other was Mr. Mark LANE, Mrs.
OSWALD's attorney. ...

"2. Mr. DULLES then suggested that the res-
ponse to this question could be in the form of
sworn testimony before the Commission by a senior
CIA official or a letter or affidavit. He re-
called that the Director of the FBI had replied
by letter to a similar question. In any event,
Mr. DULLES felt that the reply should be straight-
forward and to the point. He thought language
which made it clear that Lee Harvey OSWALD was
never an employee or agent of CIA would suffice.
We should also state that neither CIA nor anyone
acting on CIA's behalf was ever in contact or
communicated with OSWALD. .. . I agreed with
him that a carefully phrased denial of the charges
of involvement wth OSWALD seemed most appropriate.

"3. The next question concerned the possi-
bility of OSWALD's having been a Soviet agent. Mr.
DULLES suggested that the Commission's question on
this matter be phrased somewhat as follows: ‘In
the knowledge or judgement of CIA was Lee’ Harvey. :
OSWALD an agent of the Soviet intelligence services
of the intelligence services of other communist
states at any time prior to 22 November 1963, or
was OSWALD solicited by these intelligence services

to become such an agent?' .. . Mr. DULLES and J
felt that it would be better to . . . confine our
response to a precise statement of fact. This state-
ment, in Mr. DULLES' view, could note that CIA |
possessed no knowledge either gained independently
or from its study of the materials supplied by the
Commission tending to show that Lee Harvey OSWALD
was an agent of the Soviet intelligence services,
or the services of any other communist country, or
for that matter of any other country. ‘

"Ae se ae

"5S. . . . Mr. DULLES mentioned other issues
which concerned the Commission. He remarked that
members of the Commission could not understand why
cia had not begun an investigation of OSWALD as
soon as it received word that he had defected. I
noted that this question had been discussed with
Mr. RANKIN and his staff and there seemed to be
considerable [misJunderstanding of the practical
circumstances which made it impossible for CIA to
undertake such investigation inside the USSR. I
expressed the hope that it would not be necessary
for CIA~to place matters of this sort in the public
recond. Mr. DULLES agreed. ‘

"6. Mr. DULLES then asked if it were normal for
the Soviet Government to permit a Soviet woman to
marry a foreigner and then allow her to leave with
her husband shortly after the marriage. This question
perturbed |the Commission and they would like to have |
an answer. I said that... the prdblem seemed to
lie more in the consular field and I suggested that
. the best way to obtain an opinion on what constituted
‘normal practice' in marriage cases in the USSR would

SECRET
la
SECRET

any information currently in your files regarding

these subjects."

2 April 1964 3
Memorandum for the Record, dated 2 April 1964, by

 

Raymond G. ROCCA, Chief, CI/R&A; Subject: Meeting with
’ Representative: of the President's Commiséion on the
Assassination of President Kennedy, 27 March 1964,
Langley.

"1. I talked with Mr. Samuel A. STERN re-
garding the Commission's interest in original
Agency materials on Friday, 27 March 1964, from
2:30 to 4:00. ...

"2. Mr. STERN hewed closely to the guidelines
which had been established between Mr. HELMS and Mr.
RANKIN: he read - or asked to read - only papers
that had a bearing on the summarized information
that had ahready been forwarded to the Commission.
In the course of the discussion, he viewed the
following specific items of original Agency docu-
mentation:

"a. DIR-74673 dated 18 October 1963...
to State, FBI, and Navy reporting contact i
ry .with Soviet Embassy, Mexico, by American,
Lee OSWALD. (Forwarded to Commission
under cover of DDP memo, No. 4-1554, dated
24 March 1964.) _ .

"b. “MEXI-7019 (IN-66846) dated 22
November 1963 re photos of unidentified
American entering Cuban Embassy on 15
Octeber 1963. (To Commission under cover
of rit memo, No. 4-1555, dated 24 March |

1964. . ‘ .

"ce. MEXI-7020 (IN-66891) dated 23
November 1963 which forwarded names of
three persons possibly identical with
OSWALD who flew.from Mexico to U. S. in
November 1963. (To Commission under cover
of DDP memo, No. 4-1555, dated 24 March 1963.)

"d. MEXI-7021 (IN-66896) dated 23 i
November 1963 indicating that FBI agent hand- .
carrying photos of person suspected of being : !
OSWALD to Dallas for mailing to D. C. (To i
‘Commission under cover of DDP memo, No. ‘
4-1555, dated 24 March 1964.) ‘ :

"e. Six photos mailed to Washington,
referred to in paragraph 2.d. above. (There
was no discussion as to how the photos were
acquired.)

"f. Copies of the three informal, un-
dated disseminations handcarried to the
Secret Service based on 2.b., c, and d above.

; "g. DIR-84915 dated 23 November 1963
to the FBI re activities of North Ameritan,
possibly identical with OSWALD, who visited
Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico on 28
September 1963. (To Commission under cover
74-0000

oe 6

SECRET

17 March 1964 :

dated

Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
17 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

“At the conference held in my office last
Thursday, March 12, we agreed to forward to you
certain documents. Those documents accompany
this letter and they are as follows:

"Il. Three ring loose-leaf notebook
containing a file entitled "Lee Harvey
OSWALD and Marina OSWALD, Documentary

’ Record of Contacts with the United States
Department of State and the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

"2. Copies of letters written by Lee
Harvey OSWALD to his mother, Marguerite
OSWALD, when he was living in the Soviet
Union. .

"3. Memorafidum dated March 12, 1964,
subject: Certain Questions Posed by the
| State Department Files. .

"4. Copy of an undated draft of a
letter found among Lee Harvey OSWALD's
effects after the assassination, believed
to be an initial draft of the letter sent |
by him to the Russian Embassy, in Washing- ‘*”
ton, D. C., on or about November 12, 1963."

26 March 1964 2

dated

Letter to Mr. Rishard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
26 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

"Enclosed is a letter received by the Commission
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation dated March
19,.1964, and various enclosures which set forth the
results of a recent investigation by the West German
Federal Intelligence Service.

"The Commission would appreciate your analysis
of this material. If you believe that additional
investigation is appropriate, we would appreciate
your initiating the appropriate action through the
facilities of your Agency."

30 March 1964 ; :

dated

Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
30 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

“By cover letter dated March 23, 1964, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation delivered to the
Commission 28 reports and memoranda setting forth
the results of the investigation concerning George
and Jeanne de MORENSCHILDT requested by this
Commission. These reports confirm that the pre-
sent residence of the de MOHRENSCHILDTs is in
Haiti and that they have travelled extensively
in prior years throughout Mexico and Central
America. The Commission would appreciate your
furnishing a report from your Agency setting forth

FORTT

rT tren
~4-
A
SECRET
“2. The first topic raised by Mr. RANKIN
concerned information on Lee Harvey OSWALD's
stay in the Soviet Union as reported by the FBI,
based on their interview of the defector, Yuriy
Ivanovich NOSENKO. This discussion is reported
in a separate memorandum.

: "3. 4 . . Mr. RANKIN's staff showed us a
detailed memorandum they had prepared based on all
of the information available to them, including
our own contribution concerning OSWALD's stay in
the USSR. ...

"4. Members of Mr. RANKIN's staff then spoke
about having found a book in OSWALD's possessions
which had certain letters cut out giving the impre-
ssion that this might have formed the base or key
for a cipher system. ...

"5. Members of Mr. RANKIN's staff then com-
mented on the testimony of Mrs. OSWALD to the effect
that the letters from her son regarding his desire
to return to the United States had the appearance
of being dictated since they contained none of his
usual grammatical errors and used legal language
‘with which he would not have been familiar... .

"6, Mr. WILLEMS noted that Mrs. OSWALD had
introduced a statement to the effect that she sus-
pected her.son to be a CIA agent. ...

"7, A considerable part of the meeting from

this point forward consisted of a review by Mr.

RANKIN and his staff 6£ the gaps in their investi-
gation to date. ...

_"8. In connection with the Mexican phase of
the investigation, members of Mr. RANKIN's staff
questioned Mr. HELMS and Mr. ROCCA regarding the
extent of the CIA file on OSWALD for the period
8 October to 22 November 1963. ...

"9. The question of why no action was taken
by other agencies of the government after their
receipt of CIA information that OSWALD was in
contact with the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in
Mexico City was next discussed. .. .

"10, Thé Commission, Mr. RANKIN said, would
be interested in any information held by CIA on
Jack RUBY. ...

"11. Myr. HELMS was then asked if CIA had done
-any follow up to its original telegraphic dissemi-
nation of the information on OSWALD's visits to the
Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. Mr. HELMS
replied that there had been no CIA action following
our initial dissemination. Mr. WILLEMS then asked
if there were any liaison problems faced by CIA in
its efforts to deal with other agencies in matters
affecting internal security. . . .

, "12. Mr. WILLEMS then asked if CIA's intelli-
gence collection system was automated. ...

"13. In speaking of the broader question of
protection for the President, Mr. RANKIN asked
about our procedures for working with the Secret
Service when the President travels abroad. ...

"14. Mr. WILLEMS asked if we could check ona

 
- 5 .
: | __ SEGRE
memorandum sent to Mr. KARAMESSINES on’ 12 February

regarding one of the pictures identified by Mrs.
OSWALD as that of Jack RUBY... ."

16 March 1964
Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
dated 16 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

“During our conference of March 12, we discussed
informally several questions. concerning Presidential
protection, which I would like to put informally to
obtain any comments your Agency may desire to make.

"First, at the time of the asSassination, did
the Central Intelligence Agency have any written
description of the criteria to be employed by its
personnel in determining what information coming to
their attention should be furnished to the Secret
Service? If not in a written form, was there any
general policy with respect. to this matter?

"Second, has the Central Intelligence Agency any
recommendations to make regarding possible improve-
ments in any aspect of Presidential protection,
whether or not involving matters within its jurisdic-
tion, including intelligence arrangements and proce-
dures, liaison somg federal agencies, particular
‘protection measures, and any other aspect which. ap-
pears relevant?" - ——

16 March 1964 : ;
Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
dated 16 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

"I would like to confirm our understanding of the
arrangements agreed upon at our conference on March
12, respecting the furnishing to the Commission of
certain materials to complete your response to the re-
quest of our letter of February 1964.

"As we understand it, you will supply a paraphrase
of each report or communication described in the second
paragraph og our letter of February 12, 164, with all
indications of your cinfidential communications tech-
niques and confidential sources deleted. You will also
afford members of our staff working in this area an
opportunity to review the actual files so that they may
give assurance that the paraphrases are complete.

"The same procedure would be followed with respect
to any materials described in the third paragraph of
our letter of February 12, 1964, which have not hither-
to been furnished because of similar security conside-
rations.. In addition, we will be furnished actual
copies of disseminations on October, 10, 1963 to other
federal agencies regarding information ori OSWALD's ac-
tivities ‘tn Mexico City, and any other materials not
already furnished and within the scope of the third
paragraph of our letter, which do not present security
problems requiring paraphrasing. ’ i

"if these arrangements are satis- factory to you,
I would appreciate your advising Howard P. WILLENS or
Samuel A. STERN fo our staff when it would be conven-
ient to have them visit pour Agency to review the
files involved."

 
74-0000

SECRET

Discussions between Warren Commission and CIA

31 January 1964 oo. :

dated

Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans,
31 January 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel:

"Thank you for your memorandum of January 25,
1964, transmitting a detailed chronology of hee Harvey
OSWALD's stay in the Soviet Union and the alphabetical
list of persons in the Soviet Union who were known to
or mentioned by Lee Harvey OSWALD or his wife.

"Based on an initial review I am confident that
this material will be of great assistance to. the work
of this Commission. However, I have a question re-
garding the mention of an appendix in the Name List.
For example, there are references to "Appendix B'
under items No. 70 and No. 91. I would appreciate
knowing whether one or more appendices have been
prepared to the materials which can be made available
to this Commission."

31 January 1964 :

Letter to Mr. J. Edgar HOOVER, Director, Federal Bu-

reau of Investigation, dated 31 January 1964, from.J. Lee

RANKIN, General Counsel.

"We understand you already have furnished the
Central Intelligence Agency with the Summary Report
entitled ‘Investigation of Assassination of President
John F. Kennedy, November 22, 1963', and accompanying
exhibits; the Summary Report entitled ‘Investigation
of Killing of Lee Harvey OSWALD, Dallas, Texas, 24

- November 1963'; and the two Supplemental Reports to

these summaries. At a conference on January 28, 1964,
attended by Mr. MOLLEY and representatives of the
Secret Service and the Central Intelligence Agency,
we discussed the possibility of supplying additional

‘reports of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to the

Central Intelligence Agency in order to enable that
agency to be of further assistance to the Commission.
It was agreed that F.B.I. reports would be made avail-

-able to C.I.A. and that representatives of the two

agencies would consult regarding the precautions to
be taken in the use of these materials.

"“Accotdingly, the Commission would appreciate |
your furnishing the C.I.A. (Attention: Mr. Richard
HELMS) copies of the following reports:

"All correspondence carried on by Lee Harvey
OSWALD with persons in the Soviet Union, in particular,
the letters referred to on page 63 of your Supplemental
Report on the Assassination of President Kennedy.

"As additional materials in these general areas
are developed by the Bureau in thé course of its in-
vestigation, we would like the reports to be furnished
to the Central Intelligence Agency... .. "

SEDIE
 

 

 

[id f0109-10194

 

Tab A: Discussions be-
tween Warren _Commission
° “ —

i
t
-~2-

. —
10 February 1964 , SEvnCI 7

Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS , Deputy. Director for Plans,
dated 10 February 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.

"This will acknowledge with the thanks of the
Commission your memorandum dated January 31, 1964,
relating to information developed by your Agency on
Lee Harvey OSWALD activity in Mexico City during |

'the period of September 28 to October 3, 1963.

"I assume - and would like to be so advised:
if the contrary is the fcat - that your January
31, 1964, report is not final inasmuch as I recall
an investigation is currently being pursued with
respect to an allegation of some significance
which emanated from the White House and which is
not referred to in the above-mentioned report.
With respect to this allegation, it would be
greatly appreciated if you would furnish us with
an interim resume of any developments pertinent
thereto. ‘ ,

"In_ connection with your memorandum dated
January 31, 1964, the Commission has asked me
to request you to submit to the Commission the
following:

(There follows twelve requirements.)

12 February 1964

Letter to Mr. Thomas H. KARAMESSINES, Acting Deputy
Director for Plans, dated 12 February 2964, from J. Lee
RANKIN, General Counsel.

"After your conversation with Mr. WILLENS on
Monday, February 10, 1964, the Commission was sup-
Plied by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. with
a cropped copy of the photograph reportedly dis-
played to Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD on November 23,
1963, at Dallas, Texas, by Special Agent “ODUM of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

"In order to complete the records of the Com-
mission regarding this matter, the Commission would
like to be informed of the circumstances surrounding
the obtaining of this picture by-your Agency and the

_ identity of the individual shown,”“if this informa-
tion is currently available." :

12 February 1964 a

Letter to Honorable John A. McCONE , Director! Central
Intelligence Ahency, dated 12 February 1964, from J. Lee
RANKIN, General Counsel.

"As you know, this Commission .. . \

‘We are informed by the Secret Service that the
Central Intelligence Agency has disseminated several
reports or communications coneerning the assassina-
tion to the Secret Service in the period since Novem-
ber 1963. All these materials reportedly carry s
-~3-
security rating vhibhelPlctudes their delivery to
the Commission by the Secret Service, I would ap-

_ preciate your assistance in sending copies of these
reports or other materials to the Commission as soon
as possible.

"In addition, I would like your Agency to supply
the Commission with a report on the information in
your possession regarding Lee-Harvey OSWALD prior to
November 22, 1963. Some of this information is pro-
vided in the footnote on Page 2 of your report dated
January 31, 1964, entitled ‘Information Developed by
CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico
City 28 September - 3 October 1963', The footnote
indicates that until early October of 1963 the con-
tents of this file consisted entirely of press ma-
terials and disseminations received from the Depart-
ment of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
and the Navy Department. It would assist this
Commission if a copy of the contents of the file as
of November 22, 1963, would be made available. If
not reflected in the file, we are also interested in
knowing what dissemination, if any, was made to other
Federal agencies, of items added to the file after
October 9, 1963 and prior to November a2."

6 March 1964

Letter to Mr. Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for
Plans, dated 6 March 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General
Counsel. .

"The Commission has recently received a report
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation covering an
interview that took place between representatives of
the Bureau and the recent Soviet defector, Yuri
Ivanovich NOSENKO.

"It appears to us that NOSENKO's defection,
whether or not it is authentic, is of very great
interest to the Commission. I would like to set
up a conference early in the week of March 9 be-
tween members of the Commission staff and members
of CIA to discuss this matter further and to ex-
Plore generally the work your Agency has in pro-
gress of interest to this Commission.

"Will you please contact me at your earliest
convenience to set a time for this conference."

12 March 1964
Memorandum for the Record, dated 12 March 1964;
Subject: Meeting with the Warren Commission on 12 March

1964.

"On 12 March 1964, Mr. HELMS, Mr. MURPHY, and
Mr. ROCCA met with Mr. RANKIN, Chief Counsel for the
Warren Commission, Mr. WILLEMS, and other members of
Mr. RANKIN's staff. The purpose of this meeting was
to discuss the current status of the CIA contribu-
tion to the work of the Warren Commission.
