~ REPRODUCTION
— PRERIBITIED

SECRET a
ot
for the Soviet Union, and now he (the Soviet) does not know what to
do with him (the Anerican), because they have to wait for an answer
from Was#i ngton.
Silvia DURAN agrees the same prob Tein exists with the Cubans,
* that the problem with him (the American) is’ that he does not know
anyone in Cuba and therefore if that is true it will be difficult
for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he vias thinking : of proces -
sing his visa (for the Soviet Union), because he knew it would
require waiting a long time for his visa to the Soviet Union while
in Cuba, and. fron there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet said
the thing is that if his wife right now were in Washington she
would receive her visa right now, or permission, from the Soviet
Union, to return to her country, she is going to receive her visa in
Washington but having this visa, she could communi cate to any place
this permission, for example here or any place she could receive it
(visa or permission), but right now they do not have them.
Silvia DURAN says certainly and they cannot give a letter either
because they do not know if the visa will be approved. The Soviet .
_$ays he cannot give a letter or recommendation either because he
does not know him (the American) and asks to be excused for

bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is all right and many thanks. -

c. 28 September 1963 (Saturday), 1151 hours Mexico City time.
Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED
~ REPRODUCTION
—— PRORIBITED

SECRET ©

Soviet. She. says that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North
American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait a
minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone-~and comments in
Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take the
number down--Silvia DURAN then says the American citizen is going
to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The American first speaks
Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in English.
The American talks broken Russian and says I was in your Embassy and
spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and
asks the American in English what does he want?; The American says
please speak Russian. The Soviet says what else do you want? The
American says I was just now at your Embassy and they took my
address. The Soviet says I know that. The American, in hardly
recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I went to the
Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.
The Soviet says why don't you come again and leave your address
with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The American says
Se,

I'11 be there right away.

*

d. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1031 hours Mexico City time.

An unknown male (American) calls the Soviet Embassy, the Military

 

Attaché's number, 15-69-87, and says to an unidentified Soviet
respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and talked to your

Consul. They said that they would send-a telegram to Washington,

10

SECRET

REPRODUCTION)
PROMIBITED
74-0000

REPRODUCTION
PRORATED

 

“Silvia DURAN explains the same thing to him. This man says to
leave a name and telephone number and says he will call back.
Silvia DURAN gives the telephone 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate).

She also takes advantage of the conversation and states she has
moved and wants to advise the Soviet Embassy of her change of
address so that she can receive the Soviet Embassy's Bulletin.
The man says to call KOUKHARENKO to give her new address» ‘then he

_ asks the name of the Consul or Cultural Attache. Silvia DURAN says
the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number is 14-13-26.

The man says thanks. >

b. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1626 hours Mexico City time.

An unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks

 

Silvia DURAN if the American had been there. Silvia DURAN says he
is there now. The Soviet says the Anerican showed papers from the
Consulate in Washington, that he wants to go to the Soviet Union
and be there for-a long time with his wife, who is Russian, but

the answer has not come from Washington in respect to this problem,
and according to this procedure it takes four or five months, but
without having permission fron the Soviet Union they should ask, or
better said, they cannot issue a visa there without asking Washing-
ton. However, according to this man, he showed a letter indicating
he was a member of an organization in favor of Cuba.and that the

Cubans said that they cannot issue a visa without his -having a visa

SECRET.

REPRODUCTION
PROWIBITED
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

~

wd
oof

 

?

 

 

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

14. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final préeondi tion to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the
totality of CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the af ter-

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

“15. “The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

foe
a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.

 

Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the
American citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Soviet Union, and he wants to know with whom he was
talking there because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if they accepted him and gave &im a visa, then
the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him’a visa without further
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PRORIBITED
14-00000

REPRODUCTION
= PROGIBITED

10. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic. of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies was
conducted by “ihe Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assassina-
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. ‘It is, therefore, firm
that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD “at any time during his
Mexico trip or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a
cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo, of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters--which did not

_ have one either--before 22 November 1963.

hw invite Enis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter~-
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially
of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based on
content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the
_ monitor--and this was not an insignificant element because of the
memorably poor Russian. spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

7 SEC RET

NEPRODUCTION
— PROIBITED
14-00000

REPRODUCTION
——PRORNGSTED

 

12. It must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic

“coverage was not (and normally is not) processed in "real time." The

means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything
but the spot reporting of items judged by the mon tor to be of more than
ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full texts of .
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends ‘to become
available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normally operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is’ the mention of
a name. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-

tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker said

he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to-

Headquarters in its first indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its J] October voice intercepts: it coupled the
data with descriptive information it had acquired from @ sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of a male individual, apparently an
Anericdn, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on 7 October.
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced from

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROGIBITED
74-0000

REPRODUCTION
-——_ PRORIBITED

SECRET...

   

a

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted -in October 1963 by the

 

cIA against the Soviet and Cuban

 

 

 

Embassies in Mexico City.
eye

' 3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop information
on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were
made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon. of
22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day,
asserted ly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conclusion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner.)

5. No detail in the Warren Conmission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROFIBITED
[td 10126-10384

 

REPRODUCTION
———PRRBATED

2 May 1975

SUBBECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
Conmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
15 April 1975 (Attachment, A) a i

a Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to
reconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual
i data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

mf,

| Background
2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped

photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and

 

; 1
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. 1. The photograph

(together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly

1 See Hearings Before the President's Conmission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as Hearings), Vol. XX, p. 697.

SECRET
'
i
i
'

REPRODUCTION
PROLIBITED

oR AIETIOR
PROBED

CS ECRET

 

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been
nurtured by the media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina-
tion. The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to
preoccupy "specialists" and has become the centerpiece of another
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "framed" by the use of a

double in his activity in Mexico City.2

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963 to!the*morning of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man

originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to

’ an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by

the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with

the information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with

‘Headquarters action on that information.

7. From all credible evidence known to this time (sone, incidentally,
added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),

Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days-~

. about 116 hours in all~-in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 ‘This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not

Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwaid and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of whith is attached to reference (Attachment Aj.

‘3.
SECRET
REPRODUCTION
aT

SECRET ou.”

 

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of residence was a
smal} commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the

Hotel Confer cio--where he was registered under alias. Exhaustive and
detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and
the’ FBI, after the assassination, established that in the recollection of

all hotel personnel he left early and returned late each day of his stay.

8. Assuming , and allowing for the fact of late arrival and early
departure; that he Slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 39
hours), there remain same 78 hours of activity to be accounted for.
Qverall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the

entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

 

; agent) coverage

 

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in no sense “under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were known to Mexico Station files

. before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were

- forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of

8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be

a contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on

1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROMISED
