‘og 10120-10646

 

tela 7 SE 2)

The Privacy Act, Public Law 93-579, requires thet
Federal agencies inform individuals when they are
asked to provide their Social Security Account Num. &&
ber (SSN) whether the disclosure is mandatory or [f
voluntary, by what authority such number is solic [
ited and what uses will be made of the SSN. Dis-
closure by you of ae, is voluntory, The au-

i’ paint o Bm
Back ote
fal

   

ihority for this solicitafion is Executive Order 9397. FB
The SSN is used as an idntifier in removing your &
authorized access ta’ the UYesignated Special Proj-

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT sais). Failure to provide yoor-38N moy delay the

processing required dn access ‘authority 1 temoval,

Do Nos

 

t

1. L acknowledge that by virtue of my duties | have been exposed to or the recipient
of classified information, which, in itself, or by the implications drawn from it, is highly sen-
sitive and its unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling could adversely affect the interests
of the United States. | am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information
is prohibited by the Espionage Laws (18 U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798) and that a vi-
olation of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government.

. | hereby reaffirm my pledge that | will never publish or reveal by any means such
information. { agree further that | do not now, nor will | ever, possess any right, interest,
title or claim whatsoever to such information. | recognize the full and vested property right
of the United States in such matters.

3.4 certify that | have surrendered and no longer have in my possession or custody any
classified information or material acquired as a result of this association.

4. | further acknowledge and agree that | have a continuing individual responsibility
to the United States Government for the protection of such information and that the termina-
tion from this relationship with my employer and/or the United States Government does not
relieve me of my obligations under this oath or any other previously executed Secrecy Agree-
ments, 1! understand that | will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically
advised in writing by the sponsoring activity of the U. S. Government.

5. | understand that this oath may be retained by the U. S. Government for its future
use in any manner within the scope of this oath.

6. | take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion
and in the absence of duress.

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Print}

Theodore M.

 

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

NAME (Type or Print)

C
SIGNATURE

‘Admin Debrief

 

 

 

 

 

NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION
‘ WH/PFIAB
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER:

064-18-3062

 

 

 

 

 

Pe“ 2442

Py

 

 

23 March 76

(12)
