i.
f

 

de efvised thet he hed received
reqest fron[/ of WH Divieton, who in tum
ned received roquest from fou Parrott ef the "hite
house, and fomerly of CIA, reqresting that[ |
nect with a soures of pen eB S726 7Y
poert ‘af Ausricas Frodustion : ads, isnt, Florida. :
~fymerastty douii, tarmigh exe of [7 leomteste,
_ | Red: approaches Parrott, cocking Ageney at& for Boeri's ~

; ; . .

. 2. |__| emagested that @ case be assigned
to the matter, anf he would aubalt = report. the
shove case maber we paseoitof |

Ld

 

 

 

 

 

 

a nn iene oe teen ee eee

. 7
LE) |
De !
ae

|

{

Rye oe mene geen ee -

ee
yagpnna + Lo
: : ,

    

    

on

ye ee ” on ENTIAL . 2 7265 a
an : “Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

 

To + Chief, Contact Division - OTE: & January 1960

  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

PROM = Chief, Washington Office
a 5 7 2b7y

* SUBJECT: Julia Cellini “= Contact with Rumanian Finance Minister

aust

7 1 an” late Revember 1999, Julia Cellini, Assistant to
Edward K; Moss » Public Relations, attended a dinner party where
she was introduced to the Deputy Finance Minister of Rumania,
This individual was in Washington for. consultations with the

ICA, State, etc, He asked‘her what he

on, and she recommended the usual places,

Tata, A
Bee
2. The following weék she was invited to a farewell

dinner for the Rumanian Cultural Attache, whom she had previously
wet. The Deputy Finance. Minister came up, remembered her name
and said that he had eeen everything she had recommended, including
@ weekend. at Charlottesville. He had taken aiong his superior,
the Finance Minister, and et the party, introduced him to Miss
Cellini. The conversatidn was in French, although the Minister

. aid understand English.

3. The Minister asked her what else to see during their
remaining week, and she recoumended the Monastery, Mt. Vernon,
* etc, Ee thereupon asked her to accompany them to lunch, and she
. explained that sie could not, that she worked. On Pridey, the
Minister called her to accompany them on the trip to Mt. Vernon
on. Saturday. She did not vish to do eo, but could not grecefully .
get out of it. On Saturday it was raining and the trip was called
off when she said she could not join them on Suniay. The Minister
called her once more before Jeaving Washington.

F entee muammen toners Sm umm meee eee

   
 

plus Charlottesville.

rth me sein oe

 

_ 4h. This neworandum 1s written for the record of the fact
that both the Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance hed shown
considerable interest in Miss Cellini, in the event that it might
be of any use at some future date.

 

 

PP AAbe Sa ATI mae wea UPN ad Aa ASOT OE al an eaiohen “epi econes now)

 

 

 

AV Ohne es a

not ea Pea tat tre 0 NGS Ne ee oo ee NT curb MR edine sn a+ ty aes Orr a de
sgn eptin 2 Ss marcela er el eT eta SPO ean ar aSichends 2 Stat a iy

 

eee wd
0009

BO Boy 1969

ROSES) Livard & Mans, teas Istorantloral Coxporstion, Public

t
;

.

WAG 352-65
|

| Relations Opasinlasto

 

| : Xe of the Veshington Hiel4 Office arranged
i luachoos BY AgFIT TLS ot Lscor Howse for Mr, Kakoard i Yosa
| of Hosa Intornatteral Corporation, public relations apse ial tote

aential o23iotent Hise Julia Collini, and
WS station, The purpose was to 4lscusa gs Tata)
diplemtic ecmasts vith GiFieW da view,

8 fess ia eu Kyloyed moro or Joss ful tire 00 9 public
olatiess esagulitos? for the OfAles of Leunoxde Cooporntiom.

Opp ly
Statles vo amlete Cann. Lovever, do wish te boop hin
"Sm rooorvw" for pesofhilg Suturo uso fa extertaleing African,
Capasiclly Pua, Ciphecsto. ARy ovsa comtacto WIL bo mgs
 

  

Boel Shes aeons Le
aad RS ae ee ce ee eect Lee ay sey lof BEES Te per choi

we oma ~ 2

AV2eb7 oe 72 PH |

 

vee a

 

 

 

 

— Eden Es Moss, Foss International Corporation, Publis Rola Specialtate
CAB
a Washington Offics S 726EY  Unde3s9-63 po,

7 3 - . - « Se gee 20 Fay 1965_

 

 

  

 

i ‘ i
- i i
: i
‘ : |
an
i oo4 j =
2G i
iy
. a DoF
ee ee ee se ae ds _ ;
i
: . . a : i
* 1
: : ‘ ‘
i . |
1 a7
1
‘ i .
: i
. i
'
i -
: i
se i
~ se mete eee neem mena ere een + es eee
e : ot
- ' ‘ is Te a °
i . wate
. \ -
1

 
 

Director, Ursestic Coniact Servies zu JSamery 1966
Sita: International Mivisias (Arrices Beak)

Gaier, tashingten Office

Exbrard E. Moos Imterést in Afriea/Proposed Meetings with
Flasecs Mintotors for Paruumast Intentional Cola Gagany

Ai FPACET

2. Edvanl &. Mose ic ap old counnct of the Voshington
Yield Orrice, Raving been a goed vource on Afrioon arfuies.
viten alo public relicions firm pertocienLly mpresented
caerging motions’ embassies. Im reesu. yor cert: of these
ectivitics were reduced ond Maca to nov serving as Deputy
Assistant Director (sor Public Relations) ef the vhite Rouse
Caxmittee an Civil hights, 1800 G Street, Geoll., veahinguan, Del.

2. At hia engpestion,| umehod with Moco on 27.
demmary 1966. it was egporent & iso comsicers his prevem

sffalre. ke modestly adults, capported by hia leng time ossise
tent Rro. Julia Cellini, that he is one of the fov U.S. exyerrso
_ @@ the area, one vio bag comsiicreble Sirst-nane conmeetlons
with African political leodars. Se did ercaryany thea Vinee
President (Einon on hic vour of Africa end would not be averse ta
Going the copa when VicePresidant Boghrey may take the eae
BGute.

3. Yn oddition to this, Muos mry tehe a trip of about a
gesth's duretion to many of tke Africen equntrica in Feprusry 1066,
Be said that last weck fosmer Governor Mike de Salle became presi-
G@unt Of Parqmmus Internatieral Coin Comeny, Colma, Ghie. ft
eallestora. De falle io gurticulerly interested in Mint seta cod
28 ia pocess of working ox arrangements with verieus fereiga .
‘governments vo handle mint sets ef their osinege oa on exelaaive
aistritutorehip beais intermetiomlly. Tho coumtrica wuld pet

ectumlly cost USG2 te mrodure.' Lean chou twamy percent comiase
Son to Parammot, tho muttozal treasuries wll ritein the profits.
Ze cppenra that this progres my bo having ebvlews appent te come
Viecnce Ninieters cad Du Selle, vee knove nothiag of Afrien, hna
eandd kos to ccomgmmy hin fer ths neyotiattons inmlved.

 

~ a - Fa 7 -26-b¢

ee ane
90009

fogy 2 “P2195 EE
BL demuary 1966

| A. Gheatd thoes be eay reaction to ~LLhor og Mean?
projccto, pleace intvic the Waadtingwes FE LI OreLeo. Bin.
VAL ue estrlefed alice Bio Afric.s trip sp any caso, but
thare may be com. msteero of Speci fie tates Bosovse ar
bis plewmel cautov.s with Clueres cr. cheer Afries Sabigss
oafticials,

eer extcr| TEeIA Office

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

~~ D268

Chief, Personnel Security Divielen, 0S 2% Ooteder 1958

Chief, Contact Avisos,
potosS- 73.684

LAWSON, Willlas —» United States Delegate to All African People's
Corferance -

1, A publie paletions man concerned primarily with foreign
accounts reports thet after the dafest of Mohamecd Mahgoub in
bis bid to pecans ee she of the US assembly, Ibrehia Anis, the
Sudacess plore adn United States, sommented on sone af
the “orzokpst aged by a Willies Lawson, Anis felt
that rashes Ca had Suey yory peculiar idese. Laveon hed stated —
that Mahgoubd conl4-mot possibly have expected to win the UN
election since all tye, {inSluential sevopapsrs in the United States
are Jowiah-owned ead vanid be opposed to Mahgoub's election.
Apparently, Lawsen ie d ‘pybliie relations man who. has formed an
organisation te eoufuct ad oasiness for African countries.

2, Lawes, aceardieg to,datn, will be one of the United
States dalegates to the All oar Peoples. Conference to be held
in Acura froa $-12 december 19% - Oer contact suggested that in
view of Subjects viewnolnt, he Nate individual te wateh
with regard te tris esnferense. Ke)

3. Pie tcoeaton as tae Gist

4 Any quectioes Peasrentiun should be

directed to : Bele

 

 

 

 

CU FQEN HAL

 

 

 

 

oor

L.....
 

[tod t0200-10134

 

 

 

 

 

S$ 720 7 y 1. The subject organization is an American organization, eoundes? ES Bo
™ Liliien Marika, a US citizen of Greek extraction, whose address as of soe ras

| CONIMENTAY =e Y

wongua 62 6D 1D ~~ stb ba ade -_

UNITED STATES GOVERD ARNT
Memorandum. @ on,

 

to; -Memorandum For the Record Af) ag DATE:
; Qa
ron
“ead 4
: att : vf
PROM | ant Se Q- abe (0 6..

A OR.

SUBIRCT: Foundation for "Orphans in Greece, Ince ~~ & if

 

5

 

West 57th Street, New York City. The address of the organization in 1951 was ‘ee
Bruadway, New York City.

2. In 1953, the organization's President, Mr. (fnu) Jackson, requested recog~
nition of the organization from tne US Department of State as a fully authorized
voluntary foreign aid group. The Bureau of Internal Revenue recognized the organ-
izatiou ag a charitable organization as early as 1951.

3. A check by OS of Department of State records, disclosed that State requésted
security name checks on the organization's officers. No dercgatory information was
developed. Files of OS disclose sce slightly derogatory information on Lillian
Karike.

be Mre{ T]he been informed of the above tnt

a Eiaatieais: astee, Ceeg F/G IGE MH

 

 
 

 

 

  

- SEGRET Of. 9a 5 BY

: YASo5.8268
Dircetor, Damotie Coxtact Servgeo 7 Octebar 1968
Crink, Worlagtos Piold erties oo
Abéa Karin Dondackd, Byrtom Oe
. ~ 7-26-84 “

3. C/3 {] of Yaahingtos Fiold Oftics & october 3968 received
D teloprons call fran bio contact Eévard K. Noss of Hosa Drtermatioral,
lac., yublic relation consu) tent, vith UGS he Cot ea hour lntor end
vho Suraished tho Pollevtug information. Lo

2. Rot cam corning Noss bod received a phone enll, and loter
visited o& the hoc @f c “Porelem Service Officer, not on duty vita
the arco, om special Osoignzent, oxt political, for the last coveral
yeoro". Go uc) Yervign service Officer, “vith lifetime Oxperdenco

" o
Sriowso of tha area? Bo had mot unmted to usc bis official Btnte chan
Belo fer reasons Cileh “vill Bo obvious fraa the folloving”. Be aoked .
Coa. 8 EO sould Calivar the portimnt data to a mommeseatetive of we : 7
crA. Faso Seought fo sould but cooauadle put ia a ell to ap varrne

 

 

 

pag SEOs? roetines ceecpanying Princo Soed of Soadl Archie Ro
Pienee $2 cnlé te boo copkew ond comin-lav of Ling Peloal aed Beonehg

elatiss “to upodh for King Peloal” fa the folleviag cateer. Romine’ oayp

SECRET

 
. 9.0 Gmoral cy,

 

-  geener .

AS32668
7 Cstobor 1988

“co thot ubom tho avert eseura this govorrect
VAIL wet havo @e leco tine leorming the idemtity of tho aoy Syrian
Govuramat lecfern”, stil) quoting Koss. Bardachi "uests mothing
moro", at Jcash ot tata tire.

5. Dar8oeai nisvrunts tho State Dopartsnmt and dusints oa
telling his story te tho CIA. its despite tho statexsnt by Dasdachs
tant ks knouo coed libos cur surreat Apbancnder im Sawii Arobia.

Toithor the Paroign Sarviee Officer mantiow2d, nor Mess, ia supposed

to hove cffored Paaiachi any cescuragement ia his enterprise other than
to ongeavor to convey an axpreasize of his istereet to the CIA. Hogs, -
@f course, cmpoeto me raply fron Coklcy. On the other hoed, bo may.
Toot Rondach’.§ Cstebor vith rogard to other business. If oo, ke vill
rogsrt to [7] aio inproceiezs. Dandachi alco exprococd Imterust

in talking to "€exgocams Resco of foro"; Hoos thinks Ghin doa
GSvIca rofores te Bomter Buscell of thera.

6, By catreldace
Vestara af Boftach Dooo

 

Paty an ture talopaecsd

opole a sev Dimutes lator with Clos
t>aAintely tologkersd Jako Wty of IB/P.-
Gave bin Bocdnech’'s Uoshimtien

a mo alleles mmo thit Eéty rewld comtonst “eur Onefrkces"o
{ ortataly Bscisoat tao Gand Bess te BAA.

Te WO cezateoro tho Catt Clenod to thio ffs conor, Nart=BD,
RG 9 easy Payer’ Grea Peo 05 roBiessd 4 pareGraya 5 ceva

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: : Po Jo GRIN)
Reg es . uag"

Aer aS ey ape core Sepeagstontt,

Giiselwo ls =e
: isiticl : .
“ _— on yall
’ Ten a0 074 :
}

SECRET “Sete

 

 

 

 

PaEain

 
