 

Z . . ) | Ww

. | CONFIDENTIAL

‘ (When Filled In)

SECRECY AGREEMENT

  

1. I, Reattcs SY. )Peerer ‘<<-", understand that upon enter-
ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency I am undertaking a posi-
tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi-
dent and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the
security of the United States of America. I understand that in the
course of my ewployment I will acquire information about the Agency and
its activities and ebout intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title
18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure
of classified information relating to the national defense may subject
me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such disclosure be
made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any
time thereafter.

3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have
a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to disclose any
classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza-
tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any
person not authorized to hear it such information relating to the Central
Intelligence Agency, its activities, or to intelligence material under
the control of the Agency. I further understand that this undertaking

is a condition of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency, that
its violation may subject we to immediate dismissal for cause or other
appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally
binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it.

4, I understand that the burden is upon we to ascertain whether or not

_ information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it,

and, therefore, I will obtain the decision of authorized officials of
the Agency on these points prior to disclosing information relating to
the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my
dismissal.

5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature

of a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub-
licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation

of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM
5.63 3608 cCesolLeTe rrevious EotTions.

 

a2)

 
 

a ¥

SECURITY REGULATIONS CERTIFICATION

Date 220 Ceri’

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE READ THE SECURITY REGULA-
TIONS MANUAL OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
I UNDERSTAND THESE REGULATIONS AND WILL ABIDE BY
THEIR PROVISIONS.

‘

f . vi :
Ab trarl J. CVE pt. Ahige”

ae a

 

Signature

DAVID L, PV OR ACE &

NAME (typed or printed)

 

FORM
6.63 2108 : (4.42)

 
 

 

° , CONFIDENTIAL

wet . * (When Filled In)

6. I understand that for all grievances and complaints there are estab-
lished procedures within the Agency permitting appeal by any employee of
the Agency and to carry any such grievance or complaint outside the Agency
will be considered a violation of the undertaking set forth above in
paragraph 3. If the appeal procedures are inadequate in any situation,

I am aware that the Inspector General is at all times available to any
employee with a legitimate criticism, grievance, or complaint.

7. I further understand and agree that my employment by the Central In-
telligence Agency is conditioned upon my understanding of and strict
compliance with CIA Security Regulations, and the appendices thereto.

8. Inasmuch as employment by the Government is a privilege not a right,

in consideration of my employment by CIA I undertake not to publish or
participate in the publication of any information or material relating to
the Agency, its activities or intelligence activities generally, either
during or after the term of my employment by the Agency without specific
prior approval by the Agency. T understand that it is established Agency .
policy to refuse approval to publication of or participation in publication
of any such information or material.

9. I agree that all information or intelligence acquired by we in con-
nection with my official duties with the Central Intelligence Agency
remains the property of the United States of America, and I will sur-
render, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Agency or upon
separation from the Agency, any material relating to such information
and intelligence in my possession.

10, I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental
reservations or purpose of evasion.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have set wy hand and seal this 2e day of

a » LASS
flsadd fh tek cect fA Peck

 

fe

Witness:

 

 

  
     
  
   
    
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
    
  
   
   
   

   

SECRET

yO . “(When Filled In)

RELEASE OF PERSONNEL SECURITY INFORMATION PLEDGE

 

DaTe ; .
rare

 

 

 
    
 

FILE NO. pe
Se YS
ae ol &
REQUESTING AGENCY €L-
a7 3

Fi be

 

NAME OF SUBJEC)

    

(Lest, First, Midd e) .
NLA king :

fe An

 

      

RELEASING *

 

As a duly accredited representative of the Requesting Agency
named above, I understand that all personnel security information
released 'to me concerning the Subject by review of his file, by
memoranda, by copies of reports, or by any other means is furnished
in strict confidence in connection with wy official duties. Accord-
ingly, I hereby pledge the following: °

1. The information is for official United States Govern-
ment use only and will be handled in accordance with
its classification.

2. The information, the source thereof, the identity of
informants, and the collection methods will not be
divulged nor disseminated to anyone, except officials
of the Requesting Agency named above on a strict

= need-to-know basis.

3. The information will not be divulged in any hearing
or board action without the prior written consent of
the Central Intelligence Agency.

 

ie ae

DATE

 

 

‘iby
tees 2095 SECRET

 

q12)
