 

+
‘Ae an Gerortant one and

+ ao fully an he can wi

   
  
   
 

  

Oines pau wf

 

sul prefer Mr,

 

yust May very wes.

he Strike Force on Defiay ag &

  

tive af the Councii - was flatly turnet dew by Or, Miro wha said
mist te filled by o msn of axperdanca ard naturity.

Hea gatd thet Ar, Artime Ads comstdnesLie creaiee bun ke fs nob ready, as yet,

to aasuaes & posstion of such rvaponaibility.

 

   

«Him mato |

    

us but crab he wikt sacap

 

wLlLl realyn mia poottion (f unera ie ang atten

which he cannot cenectentiously go aleng wltn, At the sam tie ho sesured

Mr, Cary that he duas not inte, fs sap way, to diterfore with tne allitary

wet

aspacts of tha project, Howsver, hu aays it te wital thet he te aule to com

fer AS HOON 22 possible wilh @ persun un "the Aighast level to diseume the

of & "Jofa ue operatienss.® »

 

military question ami the appointa

$. | SULT SOLGAMP.. be, Miro tnfosasd Ke, Cary that he wuld bike te vielt

the Camp accompanial oy sil six eechers of the Councia and by-an able. Lf thie

4o vot acceptable ne will iske only als aide, He wid not, es ve bel suggested,

take Hr, Artime along with Aim exceyt'ar & member of hie ela-man wumcii, When

 

it srs pointed out to »

 

Woent to support tos

 

aight be an amportant factar in influencing

Council, Ur. Mire's respanee was’ Cif the lounsdl os consitvted EF me wy unter

ey. leaisrehip cantt atarc on its oun zarite, weld better Mind that oot régnt

 

rere”. {In 6 cosvarsstics on the evenin

 

ve

fo Bat tel

rho. Han 2

   

eG
 

 

sac aj UOKTS 8Q [PLA HUGTt, “+s

       

ay. Be Gas Ong CoD Stee: 4

Use aeup ter

ry

  

Yee luemias oS

 

ruts po peop gees? w og ft pers

   

fo saTatz Ergisva Sy UT BUOP 64

oeeed ayy font er som gt

GUT Uy BWemssesc: PeuGre saws 0.24

 

Svaty Of LOU ay

  

$9 CueySey [PSO seeuy 9 ue le

PY} [0 VRws MELE OV ey TTA Saou, asyy 120g tay reEOsUy ery SIT 4c ‘s

‘ eapay Taney ca

feoeg GTpTeg “Ag 40) sey Teng “Puy

; oaasy GID iA IG

ePLyseyy Mlanp vag

és oe Sey POT LED Tao

eM oy

 

  

Oyu y Ta

IBUYACTIOZ @UG YAP TposE
Dy BUTE OLTE AG BOA cuceied KTS OU “PUNGTH KUT, ay VF

Panyaass GU, GO TL

   

ROU Pa¥ thy UeLe Cue te

 

oa Tle + ey

   

 

 

UAVs 2t2Zy BOTS ‘orety 03 (frervawies ‘peuunqes 4279 3H Ye Od

 

voraieal @bt of rioptet 627%

 

‘tere Lier.

 

fons

 

LE Pay ME

 

     

 

\
\
\

v

 
 

 

~ AF ¥s 5

 

Hevia wal Rewiee Ke

   

le fy

 

2 Oth pee

  

saped fros La Cabana a wiin him to

   

this fore Bs.” roaivel tiis weir.

ceived say confirms ticn of

© (Cutan white paper). ar, Hare in forned

 

AMEBTG be SUA

 

» Carr that ne hag charged Judge Zntenie Siltn with whe writing of the so. --
celled "white paper” schfch wo have anced him to prepare and thet the paper will

ware. ay by Momtay, 77? Rarea. -

 

an Propagerda Cutet, Dr. Mare Lnforned k

Leen offtiiniiy appointed as Frepogemta Chloe?

 
 

gao2d sind thst ha hiesalt

siil wieh to wanine ony deportant ECEEsinda thawed La the names oe

fomeli before tt lo diseeinntad.

en

ae. fencluatoss tnt Nacnmneniatlonar
It is atroady evident that De. Vireo inteada la bea Prozidant ta foot and

not in name only, Wa Peel that thio As ag hetltty sige aal Guat ba the dang range

 

tt wi Pedouné © our tatsresis, so iong, of courses, 44 ho fa eillin,

 

Seta ad epen wind end @ deslra to soaperate, Br wh x his” cuamb tment not te

ty De a sarioua

 

Interfore with tia military operntion. . it would, fa sur onin{
mittake te try te dnnos 2 any peresh or any ecuree of seticn on tr. Hire, This
dees not ean thet we umst aot try te persuada Ms Blons @ certain scourge shen

the fasus. le. aa laportant ‘one ‘and our argicstata are Togieal and walid, Spesificaliy

 

we would recomand that we let Dr, Hiro tend ug uno Ne wants te take

 
 

Bim orl that we arscetully abide oy hte declaion, Als ws feel it of
partance thai, Dr, Bie and nia party be res sal ved at. the canp ty onr of
comtesy Am! defsrenon and that timex be accord ad ail dua peaare aola free ant
whanvered hand in thete Bensatt wits the toons, aRy attegp. on te mart of

cur efft Lctale at tne cazip. to tel. 1 Or. Hiro feu. Re #12 saadvet Rimedl?, soy tang

    

fe will talk, what he will esp, ate., could do us iasliag hare aw dey

Stud ee 2 tia

 
 

the sltteate ain of the essed}: ors

 

 

s which {9 the replacerest of the Gamies
\

go Parneent by &@ govermmsst vilen willbe friemily to the Unlted States, Et
feal that thia point cannat 54 erer erphasisad and preposs that, uneuivecal |
instructions be trammeditted to. tae Cam for its gvidance,

Gorard Desilse
