 

!
:
i
j
{
i

 

 

 

 

rn consideration oan probably not be Seld by thes for my eee of

*, _ Sine mises certain segments af Castros air force con be nezire~ -

. : . : ‘Lised eitter pricy er during the coup, Tue “GPere ers not eo aaah |

: conserred ebort Castro's graand farce; according te Ray there ere ..

. : _ nly threa roads a pesse9 loading into the leis of Fists cies 7
marsh land, These sveds, the MEPere feel, can be easily cnough .

‘controliet by thes. As matters now stand, the geoeral coucegt cf

 

 

   
   
    

 

the ition would be for o capture aod neatralise Chiag.
‘ __Thea, form a eativoy of appreximately 40 san and driv
* te the Prison arce-——an ootensibly routing trip which hes
deen performed: 1 6 pest eo wasber of tince z
eupplies for gercisan., Matos would’ r
help of fat tine and glmost elualtanccudly sith bis : :
t Uderat: snd Punts Del Eete garrisong would move and =~ 2
; occupy tactio. > perky also strategic locatians. i
a (4) The. £127 Fovesber ws set a2 the target date | 1.
ey . ~ was that both mt Ce w\are due for rotation in the very :
. near futures ore, the MBP pleinars thnx, a Sunday ia tas

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
    

n dest day-to momt guch en operation,

» (e} Delivery ‘of enti-air oraft artillery aod 6
: eupply for anti-Castro vebals after the cperstion baa be
“ . (a) Maps pe by the Jerial Service npr of anette at
_ Penneyiyenta, 2 : -

 

whether or not: his poste” ‘inside were edle to
supplies which might come their wey. I also ask:
‘weapons the KEP planners were-thinking of sod wb
_ | Beegupply would-be needed for arse now already 3
Cubans in that eress-It- beceze clear that Ray.
thoes questians | which be falt should be refarred for,
She, "technical 2 Rovel,# Lees Colenel Barquin snd oe

as $. at thie point, of the converaation I beg
i of the Headquarters deateions resched in regards
 ouppert of the Mur I aaid that I wanted to repoat® camasrat
¥ - Previously tc Chibas, Esteves, Barvoin, aod fay) nanely,: that the: Pentee
5 stoup could not afford any duplication ef anti-Castro efforts, that -
By - gdeinistrative and enpply machinery had been established for quite ‘ecm
é time, and that this machinery, 1.08., the Frente Revulucianaria Democratice

: . would have to be utilised to the fullest dn ‘operations’ of tide sort

   

 

 
 

104-10179-10008

 

  
 
 
 
 

   

“RETURN TO CIA
.. Background Use Only
7 - Do Not Reproduce
on . - oe) tee Los
moe . ,
correc? REPORT
ine _ a SUBJECT: ° Meeting wth Memaed Rey end newt :

—_— epartnent (30 West 60th Street, Hew
oo Graber, 1960. .

PARTONE OF THUZ

L- : “2. Hotes thie nesting hat been colled by me in order to imple-
. ment tle de:isions reached at Headquarters cmoernisg car future 7 or
}-. relationships with the MEP. (Ses Merorqiti=s Por The Recomt dated 21. ‘
Koremcer 4950, DIR 12522, OUT rubds, and CWA Tate memcrantum vo 4

_ CAra/i, 9 Hovesber, 1960; aleo sec MASH 177k, IE LSE16 wai
. oat coteined Yarona's concurrence on 21 Hovenber to finens
Pro's ¢ . . oy

   

    

at the Tele of Pines
with sigation hes contact. One garrisea ia comamded

 

 

' Uiberate Matos from prigon. . 2 : -

(o) Inlconstdering the situation outlined in (a) and:(b) ebove,
Manuel Rayo military plennera felt thet one single operation ahould
be forged: - since the MP plamere believes thet, if Kater Katoe can
be freed xf if the two garrisons pentia.ed in paragraph 2(a) above
will defect, thas other troops end a good part c? the popaletian in
tha Iale of Pines, know by tha nawe Chinc, is undowbteily loyal te
Castro, Ferthernore, the MAP feels that the Isle of Pines area unter

  
 

oy 4 Drea hy

. an Ov
undoubtedly imew wes aleo the military advisar to the ¥RD) .
any ehipaents Stedly carry the FED isbe) and in all like. ae
hood FRD-prepared, anti-Castro literature would acceapany wuch shi p- .
mente; plang and pllote utilised in euch an undertaking were FRD asacte

GAG tduitified «6 such.

 
   
 
  

necessary to overthrow Castro.
thie forma but he could Live and ocps with it.

7. T told Ray that T would have te get tn towh aith our eilitary Hey
- people in order to find ost whether or not we now hed sufficient dete on 9
_ bend on which to bags a decision. (Comment: C/‘Vh war briefed telee -
: phonteally by me on the foregvisg and on eéitiocal aspects of this -
. Reeting wich are reported in part two of this Contact Report. C/i/h
; and I felt that we did See ae ee ee eohen aa ther bias to aske | :
ae to, comitmentos C/AE/t instructed me te-advise Ray that

Sorta : (a) Sith toa Yr, shoud atest odes im
whether to be af svelotence < not ors.

(b) the XRP could go 4 alone, cad ask us for sine antistancé
efter the operation hes bea launched and we would wake our .
_Gecdaica then on the basis of existing clrometances. .

spore waa trennitted to tay vb Anoate tat the OD did not deat
» £0 ge 6 Slane and that he would instroct Barquin to ims ene .
Hiei to work out @ coordinated cperetionsl TEA

      
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
  

 

  
 
 
   
 
 

i
t
.
4
moO | pOGe ante podat of the ‘necting I folt that the
taolke: the $2500 payment (by Bender check) and to adviee Ray.
. . $7500 woeld be made avallabla to Lim vin duo Ponda, the PRD cc
“ Bapested what 3 had sate prericudy abet dipicaticn and fe:
2
;
I

  
      

(Comaente: for additional details and other ites covered:
> daring this neeting fee parte two and tree, “Contact hepert, 22 Hovesh ery
Rooting with Ray and. Ciibas.®)} :

~ 03 Soe GERARD CROLLER
a . CAEL

b ae 2 WW 6 cA /ors (rot to m) Le
: Ta anes moot, ”
