‘og 0442-10002

 

. .

. *
pe tray - ae re .
JPERALUSE-BAY —GOHABENT-

Journal ~ Office of Legislative Counsel
Monday - 3 October 1977

 

25. (Unclassified - DTC) LLAISON Professor G. Robert Blakey, ,
Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, ~~
visited the Agency for meetings with OLC, OGG, and os. Gee Memo.

_ for the Record. )—

26.° | {eenbidentior- GLC) LIAISON Dropped by the office of
Ralph Preston, House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee staff, and
alerted him to the fact that the Director would be making courtesy calls ©
on several members of the Defense Subcommittee tomorrow and I

 

assumed that the Director would discuss the realignment of certain

aspects of the intelligence structure in furtherance of Presidential ; - :
Directive/NSC-17. ee

 

27. (Unclassified - THW) CONSTITUENT ‘Graig Betancourt, '
in the office of Representative Fortney Stark (D., Calif.), called requesting |
information in order to answer a constituent with respect to questions — :
related to the use of missionaries abroad in intelligence activities. I

' referred to the regulation on the use of missionaries and this seemed

to satisfy the request. —

28. (Confidential - THW) CONSTITUENT Burt Margolin, - ~
Administrative Assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman (D., Calif. },
called stating that a constituent and close friend of the Congressman, a
Mr. Wittenberg, had called stating that persons purporting to be

» representatives of the CIA, on two separate occasions, had visited a
_ Soviet emigre family living in his (Mr. Wittenberg's) house and wanted

to insure that these persons did in fact represent the CIA. After. _
checking with DCD, I told him that they were legitimate representatives.

the Soviets involved.

. and that the Agency was very much interested in being able to debrief |
i

 

 

 

 

fs L. G
Lenialaive Counsel
; 0% . . ; aa
ce: O/DDCI Mr. Ex. Sec. DDI DDA DDS&T Mr. Lapham

 

Mr. Hetu) SA/DO/O IC Staff Gomptroller NIO

20492
