104-10331-10298

 

28 March 1994

Memo for the Record a

 

Subject: Meeting with O/S Officials Regarding AMMUG Poly

Attendees: HRG O/S
Barry Harrellson C/info Mgt Branch
Frank Most Info Mgt Br

 

Joe a : Info Mgt Br

ed off, stating two O/S concerns: (1) that the specific :
list of poly questions with relevant and non-relevant questions and their sequence:
constituted a method that had never been revealed and (2) that we needed to delete’
identifying Nata on Vladimir Rodrueguez Lahara.

 

Barry quickly settled point 2 explaining that the DO had long since agreed
to the release of his name and the crypt, and that the Cubans knew who we had, but that
we have carefully protected his assumed name and location. (Point accepted by.O/S).

A more lengthy discussion ensued regarding the list of questions (point 1). The outcome
was an agreement to compromise, releasing the questions deemed important to the
investigation and deleting others. HRG will call (O/S) with proposed deletions and

negotiate further | ;

then raised a question about the Solie report that had been released including a
section on the Nosenko poly that included a list of questions. We confirmed that was
correct. O/S was not pleased but agreed that it was water over the dam and was molified
by an inspection of the report. Solie seemed to have modified the list of questions in an
effort to conceal methodology.

 
 

  

We then brought up the matter of the recently received HSCA documents regarding the
security violation in the HSCA file room in 1978. Frank provided the background. It was
quickly agreed that the only question was whether we needed to protect the name of the
CIA security officer involved. O/S agreed to inspect his security file and see if the name
‘was publicly released at the time.

Finally, Barry asked about the tapes of the Alvarado interview (CIA tapes found in FBI
files). O/S will request that they not be released by FBI; O/S will return the tapes to FBI

for the time being.
er
Frank
