74-0000

 

 

   
     
    

epyarects possibility ef Castro holding prompt fires elections for
Guod wan, etayizg act ani renmisceg “here”, a9 poacible scletion
for Ctr. .

3. fen Crome eald that as af 1630 yesterday (Toursisy 12 thy)
the perel vosli be Cutrne, Diktgo, Leciuce (eeaistans te Caton
Arpetenice to 0), hurter, vith Comrd azith eg maularetor. Sovies .
Wil) set be on beomare C3S doetted he ig a reporter and: therafers <<! + ~
ehould aot debate bis ove resort.

 

 

 
 

 

 

4 Cea.

eTrpeneyOrerte Premera meena eer SREPHE YY 8) EOS RENE OEE AY

 

  

SEGRET ©
; 13 May 1959

SOMOANCU Ft Be. Comes

SLUT + Suggested Qaueeticce for Leo Cherne

1. I gave Btu Sovins et bia request om onlay the lite, efter
our eeting with the Director, my aiggewtions far qaastions to va
eecet co tre pasel diecussice Scrcay the itt. 1 feel sare ne vill
Yose wee on to cterne, Om! I keve an OC Forking Grea megting ta
phoct ten minutes. ds seid he wasted to coustar-atteck, 16 J gug-
gecred tie questions full inte fur categories:

a. Invne!:os cf other countries with macy Coben rationale
fe.g., ramen) nod vits sesgort to Camamet invasion elems-ts (¢.g.,
Donitiean -eputitc, ifcaragun!) - efrect of profrssed “nom-isteryrs
tion", eat!-Cam=mises. :

   

S. Dletatacrhip. Is TX aware thet Carmmist allegiance
ip tc Moecew, 4 «Ro, PrT1Les shatement thet it war Commriists
weal! giZe Vith Taseta aghingt treetL)f acd does (t ecesiser Joriet
& dtopeterailp er sot! TP it dose, sod 13 ctatts Meacew sostrel of
Cowms:efets fa Comm (cite recext (2an Commie visit), then iz it is

 

fever ct a Hoscow iictatorabip, ant sgningt dictatership oly woare
1& ceprieiceply eaits 167 |

. c. Free Ztactions. is it realised that amer Castro's.
eriterte of no electicos while there io cmsapicyamdi Gr iliseTRy,
no eactey (act evwa chow U, 3.) would over hove ted free elactiona?
Boss tt mov thet trees alan gta off froo elections, sad that is
why i¢ t2 a Qfictatcorehip? bint kind of gorecsnent dose. be think
Cube will tewe uattil tha date for free elections is eangumm’! /

 

 

4. Txeevtions, If a revclotiomry mrasmnt overthrew 26

Jaly temorro, Void 556 executions of &6 July people be justified?

2. T briefed iis oa many ther sepeetst: fact thet Flas Roce
(Cute) end Lais Corbales (Catle} ad roms.out im support ef 26 July
eime the 3 Hay trosfeast; Revelucion printing of his broadest, a2
contrust to genere) lack ef freecon of prems; Sevolscion attack on
Blas 2oce, a8 contrast te gecmrel ald to Comemists; lack of Camemist
euppart in April 1°68, a6 Jaiy stribe whieh might bare been critical;
26 ccly comtemetion of Commxiets in Augast 1950) Manoel Hore VYalverte
(reterret to ta brcedoast) effect on Casta; Grow Peareca colazm aa
GDC eesiefce of juns=s imwugion; 29 better alternatives te Castre yet

 

“SECRET

ee aes

 

4
ry

  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
      
 

 

~.
 

  

uF ons SECRET

PoasScle tetaliocn

 

‘Yoa vAld recall tafe Ouban cammmist delegate to @ meeting
lo Museow tact camcury sald tat bis party wok.an ective past
and mive piidence to the 2th of duly rerolction., ‘ater dun
Ynrinelle, vio I believe fe the bead of tee Cumn Covemist Farty,
echumeed in tersaw that Soviet sspport wes, deciaive’ to the
paw tien, : nee

Zz Qestionr 4 the Comuntist Party play a eignifioant part
fz the anti-2atista nowesent in Ccbe?

It fe rerectsd thet a ceemmilet, Bre intenlo Klas dizover,
{ee seser of the commission viich dg revising the histery ter
hooks to be nea’ is the Ouien rublic and private senoals, Becoc-
niring the coormmiet sxill ia rewriting histcry boos to meet ths
stancing meets cf tbe party lise I would like to asxzt

    

7 Questions De yc: balleve Cet Dr. res is qualified to
centgimite te tbe izercred accuracy avd objectivity
ef Catan Listers teoke?

go fupaticn: De you telicve that Cuben eomzarists give their
firs’ loyelty to their eourtry yather than to
tha obfectires cf the intarnsticoal eeormist
wrreuent? 7

| then Dr. Castre spoke before the ASS in Usshingtos last
memth he: expintcclty declared ttat a free yess {s Cabs ia the

   
 

 

stroncest wort and ube vest roarante? of democracy tha.
Yeanvnile, however, Castro ac vole => hie tap atiitary commanders,

Pty - Peck Tastro ant ae" Casvare, bes sharply attacked messmapers
aia imividuais who have criticised certain parte of Mis procrany
selling ther comtererevoluticaiate asi esting the public to .

Lorcott thea, . LE

Qeexdionr Bo you welleve that it is posaible for a truly
free precs ‘co finetion in the atuesphere created
ty actions of this sature?

areca as ade | A A RAE OTE PETE AIEEE TORE LTE ATT

Fictet If scdetence tras “3 3/997, 767 oan de used, &
quastion such ag the fold

ae Sestioc: Ia the report troe that Coneepeléa Palacios ard
; other Xdesrurasn saccciste are teins rivea
Mmoilities in Cure to train a force te invade
otter Caribbean occsiriee?

  
 

 
    
    
  
     

oe be SEGRET ;

Pr. Castro has said that ths Commnist Party will be
allowed te extet ant fimetion just as any other pol
party, ‘This scunis fine is theory tut ta practice
eernniate throurhout the world here aboum compiste dis~
regard for laws and legality, if ssssasary to secure &
desired objective, : .

Qreation: In view of the above altuntion ¢o you foal
tiat Bes Castro ehoald take any epssiel

Seentiog: Do you egres vith the opinies recently
expressed ty Jaleo Ducts Le @ rewapaper
arkicle that “te® Gosrure is « couamist?

 

 
    
 

INR TREES Rem eM MY

  

 

“SECRET
