14-00000

   

rbsec was s intecrogated b
y anSPy and ae

    
      

sactoi” Ustrtet, ha decane
5 3 : ¢ te desert their unit and
escape ‘Lo iurkeys arte other Trute sas tried te sacapa to Turkew bee” |
mere Sauchte Lave 5 one was transferred to. tne Saletie Trujowak unis aang,
owith hRUGELN, where they bees y :

   
 
   
   

     

    

 

     
   
 
  

 

     

: t MG in the ¢. Teftntey me pee in Plovdiv, -
te ail in his escave. -Since’Daks.J0Y ana RAININ at this point were unable
ta or ahiz @ Sa.e escape ro Purkey, they decided te goin FSLTCKGY anc go -
to Greece, particularly since all threa «ere from the Mlovwdiv areas
farmed Stefan PSLT.OVY tnat be had found.

nowt the cat ef april 2a wy dr
de who would take nim to reece if Stefan could arsive in Plowdiv by

       

     
   
 
 
 
  

  
  

  

 

 

EL TKOV aud.Spas AaTKIN left taeir unite “tmy

on 6 May wtcnov, Stafan FE
ravollva on fut te Verna, anc “trom Varna tu Plowdiv by train, arciving

t. dy Vasil LAZAMOY and tie wite,. Uaria,

‘ ¥ ‘to a Tae Woods near the willage Belistica

and prmiasd to gene & Tien of his with focd and arnanent that sam oicht. ;

Sunderstoad ani no contact. was made ,

   

 

    

        
   
   
   
    
  

 

 

TAA Tae 4 med a St naton, DoS Lannatcigsaccitn,

the entire creup went’ to Plovdiv in s arch ef vac
and bis «it Ul as Stefan's weele, Bor.
lately tor ove to find Petur NIFOLOY «ho would.
Tevdovehse pee JaNOV and Berts FELOINGY
vranipols where thy were located
3/16 a btaing plece near the
< Tradevaks. that night all
STRUT. who gave tous food and

  
  
    
  
   

  
 
  

Sant h
Loleft ame
furites " mm of t
supacated fra br.

       

   

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

      

elt, Gar

 

a ' Attached naseWita, aut
‘the geven-bocies wacttoneaa £-

 
    

 

 

_ RPB/ gam
“2 Atonmt”

  
 

: . “ oo) “EGR Toi.

        
    
 

Distributions ‘ , - F
Wasn. 2 ‘ . . . : |
X kal” :

‘i

Chrenes] .
Subject=2 -

     

 

i

Fe KAIG ; i
a CLASSIFICATION ad i
[ UV, 51-28 A : :
. t

¥rl

 
 
 

 
 

+ aeeani oe
ERR

  
  
    
 

    
 
 

,

AY ur ced tne PT
rank inavead of fleeth, te urreces Lad.-iv alsa
was planning to organise a tiorjand greuy an Bis 0:
should form.the-nucleugs The Trudaveks mfusel a:

andj Lazaro rom.acd t& tind a guide.

   

   
 

insisted

  
  
 
  

 

  

: during the ‘nh, 12, and a: Nay the Trodovakg reo
_therigelves without food an. tarn decided tr ret
‘Stefan's father, Petur PELTZNUV, as they had lo.t
Uy way Boris Pata: TKOV, Drourht then foot an! orter
Hostile, . j .

  
 
   
    
 
  

up 16 Kay Ivan NIKCLGV ‘brought! ane Iltev wlWay ole Hordla ho would’
take the Trudovaks to the Gcrjani, Tae Trutcvake having Jour” hope of: escaping, -
to Uresce had agread to Jein the Gorjunl. U1USLV, wh: was to returm tle . a.
following dry did rot show up,ard it was lvarned lever that he haa teen |

arresteds .. 1,

       
 
    

i. on V9 May DAMJANOV and Stefan TELTOMOY went ayain'to Plovdiv ani met Vasil
LAZAROV, TAZA again prowised to Mint a gatas for ureece ant ordere | the
: Trudovake to return to Gola so fla. un 02 May-Petur IBLOLEOY creasat t.
¢ news nat Yagil LAZARGY had been arreatei on 17 May anton 24 obs
/ Marla, had been arrsted, He algo toli thom that one Stefan Sibfahcy,
“’ lewyar, from “Sofia had arrived in Plovdiv and wi shed. to Jods the: Truiovaks - J
"dn their flight to Greece, Potur Sul Sic / saw som: Security agents gurveil} ing
me the. dawysr'and further contact was impussihles

 

     

 

12 From 26 May to 6 June. the Trudovaks mnatned in uola vote or “other places
in. the vicinity an} in wandering around the area their pregance becare known .

te the inhabitante. oo, : :

13. on 7 dune Boris PELTAKOY advised tiza to yo ta Markevo and aA‘de in Ivan
NIKOLGV'S place whery it would te eagier to provide trem with foal,
“ebne evening they wont to NiXCLOV's place and he eyplained to thet that his
brotter, Petur, had been arrested, aud they bal decided te escape woumec 4
Thy NIKOLOVS were to be joaned by toe brotherg BLL TOY, whose tanise nad leon
placed under police surveillance, ‘omever, on ¥ Jwe Euris PolTurO¥ case .
to Gola Koyile and told the Trudevaks that his trotner, Fetur, id not
consider the situation completely conproalaed and was reluctant to doin the

Oecape partys . . , :

 
 

    
 

  

oo “ \ ° . KaPUx
74-0000

   
   
 

tered to the Gorjant radi

informant states be.gaw an aeroplane | cruising in “in tne ‘area. of Oe Ce.

Ferdinanddve, | Plovdiv, which mais allegelly attackod by the Gorjanies

. LAZAROV told the Trudovaks that the Sorjants had thres. Soups, Ome each in
; Ploviiy, Sliven and Sofix arease . * . .

 
   
   
       

In the village’ Belastica (hore were about 225) inhabitants be & ont about ,
“20 were commutilgis. Informant did not know o. any anti-scoumindat organiaaiicn

in the village. ;

18. Inforsant did not know the brothers NLMOIeY previously. He regards thes as
‘gold nationalists, unergutic and honest, (Ee never auepected then of al SS Aaatich
“with the State Security and beldsves ‘ey had axple opportunt ty to hans
ver to the Miulicla if the NINVLOVS were 's inclinade pete

Informant also did net know Petur ant ‘Ports PSLECKOVs. He. thinks they are
Leth antdi-cosmunist and therough nationalistse accv niin edntertant, Fetur:
“PELTEXOY ig the exuberant type, Luasting and not very sericuse Joh PLDT.
blamed LAZASUV for all their trouble while tocy were Ly Tulgaria, Dut lates
- ‘in Ureece they defornded him, ‘The querrel betwoon the NISOLOYS and the

'. BRLTSEOVS wag caused ty mutual suspicion, mostly with ‘respect te TAL.
Tha hardship and hunger endured during | their Fite nt wo. Urvece added to ue
original misunderstanding. 7 Lhe .

      
      
 
   
  

 
   
 

    

  
 

 

   

      
 
 
 
    
  

   

 

  

or the members of th underyrount organteation, informant ane only ivan
‘Todoroy STCU.NOV, who ingtracted thew in operating weapons, ani ane)
HUSTOZOV., HRISWOZO’ left a solid and positive ispreasien” with informant

. sy

  
