  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

  
    
  
  

  

air .

# 4 qe Z

LEUINAD AkD rs Pe sreegs ELAM VASQUEZ: x. E
ve just written & letter to CAPT, CHINOAFIGLE.
Leb ?U ALEUINA'S KOFKER TO Gi G1IVsi
UIEA Silp THAY HE AND EKMA VASQUEZ W

DO OF, THE (

 

 

    
   
 
 
   
  
   
 

 

IN PRON? CF
An AUNTS gor E
Sof

   

> 2 AMERICANS, THESE PUOVOS WERE Ta

“A IS WORMING AT NCH, MHICH BELO.GS

> PEOTOS, Bly WERE OLD THAT THEY FECICS

26 VIGIT Havaka a FEW. YEARS aGo. Ih PH Ls?

Sands TU RALIRO V. ND CAPT. FanTOJa alsyu. oz
; “8 atm :

Les “

     

    
 
   

 

   

TGAND WHO ARE
200 cCIN CGE

      

mo BO ©.)
ley In’ tHe

    
      
 
  
   

 

ne ee

ett te
Subun Heds nere «are ‘yurnes up at tneir oppther Reds in ioscow
z c es in Moscow have not sent any sSare parts.for the
sere to Santiago, and for the past ccuple of days the W
“ud to use the Britannias to fly to Santiago, as the if
‘Thlushya’s canro. Sly until they get tires and other spare parts for then, the if
e 6Gubang nave recyisivoned these parts for some tine, bur it seems that the 1
H. Russians have ro Seen Loo much in a hurry to send the parts here.
. a APGTCSEA TER SER teste
an the-Interior the other day av one of the Sugar
exaployces refused to report for work until. the food situatio
sy nave sractically no food there at aii, 23 far as I know,
it?lasted for 2 utthn some arrests being made, and alse scme foog brought
in fer thea. Tr “oo situation in vhe Interior is really bad. Havana so far
4s aal rignt, oy that x pean the Guotas cone 4n every week on tine, even tho
opne cuotes are alno sothing, For @n & ample since tre ration bock was
4ssued last ouly, 19 p until now T heave been. given e tines-1l2 eggs in
total. Kow the last time I received eggs was 2 weeks ago~d eg gscbut berore tha
the last time = got ses waa in October of 65- so you Tan 4 ine’ now much
eood there is rere, food 418 plentiful, but only in 2 ts where you have
to pay a3 much 48 8 pesos for a dinner, and soméimes le pevss, and if people
are seen euting out too nuny times, then they are Anvesc: vd as to where the
get the mcney to spend on Food, 8° eithes these rede have you by the tail.
. a RTE MEW TS

Qhe swiss ‘Rioassy called me yesterday, and told me to come and pics up my
. Passport ( Swiss protection Passport ) which had expired on the 7th. of Mare
1964—and they have given me an extension of 6 more months, until 24 Sept, 643
But they stiii insist that it 16 up to the American Embassy in Mexico to see
that I get a Mexican Visa, they say that they are powerless to co anything.

* se4 .

  
  
 

Iv seexs thad tne
now, on acccunt of
Illushints tnat fl
read vastards nore

c

  
  
 

There was a ru
Kills, ail o2
wag regulated,

au
.

 

  
 
 
 

     
   
   

 

   

 
   

eTlong

oe

. SUE NERE HE Hee HEHE .

There ig a Yugoslav Ship in Havana now, ana the Captain is going to take some
passengers out with nim ("Clandestine ) I am supposed to yneet hin tnis weex,

out, I am still working on trying to get out

8 I have to try anything to get
py launch ir possible. The name of tne Yugoslav ship js “EABAT OR KATAT

 

Aony

  

eae HH tr tote tee HF

iD. Repe

Noe

Don't know the truth os yet, but am told that nany Russians died in the expl-
osion in Pinar del Rio last Friday nite at 9:00 P.M. ; .
bole. aed :

Sede ae te ese TEESE
s eyo
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  

A

Sore tie ago 1 wrote to you about a ANTOLI LaicO, and his cother Ba other
relatives, tis mother's name is CONSUELW&EAMAusA puprl,and she and her sister
ferse and Blanco and his wife are all in Venezuela now, Well since his Mother
onsuclo left the U.S. for Venezuela, she has been writing the most norrible
letters you nave ever seen about the U.S., she tells people here in Havana, that
she and her sister Margo were treated like dogs ty the anerican's, ana that the
only ceuson the U.S, let her leave for Venezuele, was because she told then that
her.son Antonio ( who was one of the leaders of the students here in Cuba that
helded bring Fidel Castro into power) was very sick in Caracas. Also this same
Antcnio Blanco has a motherein Law-that was a menber of the G-2 here in Havana '°
when ashe left here to go to live in New York, ana:-vhen here had many poeple
arrested wt she was. a policewoman, Now this Antonio Blanco has a step-father
nosed SXNESWELONZON BUSTO, who is still here in Havana. This BUSTO had lived in
the states, and was very well known for selling aac using drugs. in NEW ORLEANS,
‘ow this ZUsTO is head or a ring that sells phoxg false american visas, they
‘sate a staip, and witn tnis stamp they put in the passpert a pheney visa. They
Alsc have Phoney Fassports, to many countries, they charge the Cuban's here any
where fro 300 pesos to 1000 for a phoney visa, and abcut 10,o00 pesos for a
phoney pessport. They are doing a landoffice business here. also he is well
connected vith LANUSA, the red who used to be mayor of Havana, and now is head
of all sports in Cuba, this LLARUSA 48 Busto's angel, therefore he cannot get
caught for wnat he 41s doing, Thissame Busto has a friend ( Cuban) who is in
Sazaica, and worzs with him also, in getting Visas for people. He selle tnese
fH visas to anyone at all, he does not care is they are good people or commies or
‘ He phey are.Tois Busto is trying to get to Venezuela eos to join his fanily.

  

HERE HHH ne a ee ee
Orhesday March 24, tnere 1s a Cuban named : SEGUNDOKLAMAG PRINMELLES: going fo
Prague, he 1s one of the top mechanics in Aviacion Cubana, thia boy will stay
4 4n Prague about 2 or 3 months, anc then on the way back to Cuba will ask for
P asylus in Gander, hewfoundland. I wa writing this to let you xnow that this boy
4a 160 4.GCCD, he is as anti-commte as a man can be. There is a new law now in i
the Cubana Air Lines, since.they have a new head , they are telling the mechanics jf
that they have to stay in Prague for 2 or 3 months at a time, and if they do not
want to, tnen they cannot get any more flights out of the country. This Labs
_was arrested last fear by tne G2 for Ll month, accusing nis cf-Gounter-Revodutior f
~andlater released, and a few months ago when the reds here ciaimed sabotage on j
a Checko airplane, he waa {investigated for that also. Now he\ is sacared etifr tha:
at any timetney w@ll grab hin again, His wife and 3 childre have applied for a f§
VYexican Visa, and ir the Gov't will let his family go beford re comes back he wi
41 geek asylum in Gander on the return trip( If they don't abcest him in Prague)
If nie family is not given a viea, he is going into asylum anyway. I can only
repeat, this man is a good man, ana very very antit@onmie. He has’ a coysin who
H also can vouch for him, his name 4vn sMAJOR JOSE B ESANTE JR. ( RETIRED U.B. «

ARLY ALR FOXCE) living at 1712 SuUTH STANTON DRIVE, ROSWELL NEw MEXICO.

rl . Sheed dedi eas Har
Apart fron the Helicopters pilots that left here for the U.3S., you can be eure
1 that aa soon as the nkzmuem opportunity presents itself, there will be not only
WY Pilots that will take off from here, but also mechanics,stewarcesses and other
HW personel fron the Armed forces, as Cubans always wait for the first group to
start something, *then they usually follow suit. There are many many military
men ( including many high officers ) that would give anything to leave this
Red Island for the U.S. or any other part of the world, as every aay it is
getting harder and harder for a pergon to live here if he or she de not a

conmie. .
. SEbtede tte tees tree
14-09000,,

- BE ATE POT

  
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   

fuesday March 24,ly64s . a
an example of how these Red flats here are working, this je a
ole of what they are doing npw: These, are gome or the orders they have rec

Nivea Grom their Red bosses

HAcOS| ABBENZ: Be is working ople. in Guatemala and other

atin American countries, and 4s supplying them with all of the money they need
48 the fault of the Americans.

plame look Jike it
as fost as he should be:

f
Ho atart trouble, and make the

i ‘pole that he is not working as hard and

WSs They are satisfied with the w
orders, not only to ‘continue to rec
ra he does send very much Dollars to the U.S. to carry on ) but his
So try to get some egro Bilots 4n the U.S. Air Force-£0 fly their

x for asylum, He was told to spend as puch honey end as much
needs to get this job done for the connie pastards. ,

ay this pred rat 1s working, he has
ruit Negroes in the U.S. to start)

'

i Of : This coumie vastard is secretary or ths Jewish Synog
fogue in Old Havana, on Galle Picot & acosto. This red rat has been given orders
FLO contact Jews all over, ané spread the lies around how the Jews are being cia
i e U.S. He sends out propaganda to many Latin American ountries,
Pond igs going to start sending this crap out to israel. He spends a yo of time

matic Members of the Tsrael Embassy, pretending to be with them
e tells the counie party here ~
n Havana, as they had taken

;
5
7
4
i
&
4
4)
j
§

   
 
  
  
     
      
    
    
      
    

Wy spawicd Hides.

itnere ure small groups coming here to Havana regularly, eaall as not to be noti
pced very mucn, these groups are Spaniards, that went to Russia many years ago
trom Spain,. anda ulso their chilcren who were born in Russia, and who speax Span
ish just ag good ag any Spaniard, then after veing given a very 3atirf course
where in Havana, tney are supplied with phoney Fassports and other papers maki
Het loo like they were either porn here or raised hers in Cuba, and then they
Make it locx like these red rats come Zrom a very ginnil town here 4n Cuba, 90
Hthat when they are sent to aifferent ccuntries, especially the U.S. posing a8
Noolitical refugees, the Guban'a in Miami or any obner olg torn will not know
them. Then they carry on with their suoversion ard other cirty work that the
H Reds in Koscow want’ them to do. * .

  

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

l¢o4: Cubana airlines orought in from Prague, over 50
seq to ve “techhhcians "and when they toarded the
ot to get off of the ship in Shannon,Ireland

they did get off for a while.

fon Seturday March 20-
HKoreans, that are 3 pe
(piane in Frague, u viere told n
but when they stopzed un Gander,

  

Where are kere anc more Latin and central, ana South Americans young boys cand
4. giris being oreugnt here to Cuba every week, and thru every route that you can
imagine. low they are eoncentratang on SANTO DUMINGO ANb PERUVIAN YOL.GSVERS,
and they nave so many that you cennot keep tract of them all.All foreign studen
Hts that cone to cuoa, are supposed to supply a few photos of themselves to the
H read’ quarters of the Becados, ‘but these little combies are exempt frem doing

that, and cReY are not here for any pook-readings
19,9.9.! “att : . ~
ven orders to keep a very close check on }ovi~
hat brings in nerchand. Very week
, Cargo snop “from Montreal, No.2-His partner named MAx-and No. @HUGHXKELLY
aleé of when I wrote to you avout in my previous letiers. 1 don't know where
WY these crders came from, bus they are aing watched very closely now, And they
Here still bringing in AMERICAN PRODUCTS now, especially now they are bringing
4n COMPLETE SETS Awl ALSO SPARE PARTS FOR CARRIER AIR CONDITIONERS, ainong other
things such Gs: Redlo parts, Electronic Equipment ,Automobile parts and hundseds
of other things. if I ever get the chance to get to Canada, I am sure that i
can fina out who the americans in States are that are doing -the Black Market

puginess with these ratBeu-..-

e anahian Tubagsy was Bi
SOL; he rat i wrote to you about t

  
  

HAAS BES

e
    
   
     
      
    
    
    
   
    
    
   
    
      

    
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
   

This is the Brazilian wogen who waa purned in the Gas ex>
-house just-recently, und whose Husband ( A Cuban Liplezat)
é2cton. Well, just yesterday a gerews of Commies hero went
the hospital, vnere she ia just about reucy to bo Glachargod
hey need ner now te continue her broadcubts, She is the
croadcasting in Spanish and Portugese to Latin auerica in fava
Now they want her to Breadcast directly to Erazil in favor of
r ,other cane hore fron Brazil last renth, and tho rute here
ina suite of rroms in the Havana Hilton Hotel at the Gev'its
ant tl.. mother to stay with the daughter here, The rat coczies
sing the Brazilians here ( and there’ ure many ) to est groupe

gether in Brazil te cause troubfe there. . ,
. ay Pres rere aen . .

 

 

“Ap

 

1

 

G ct
a

d, anc perrig
> all bhere isa

    
 
  

 

     
   

 
   
    
    
  

 
 

   
  
      
        
    
     

  
  

a fee
Z arene
uh, Ong
whe are che

at I want ne

peason ci Estes

wile can be an

rep a fob oi stne S

       
  

         
   

is my sreatest concern, because
oy chance sonething does h en
an any . material way, all I have
ner much ir I am not with her. I
can, as things are uch to work 2
ae watched very closely now, und T cx
an I have! in the past & 1/2 years ¥

      
 
    
     
    
   
      
     

 

SS TT ee ae

    
 

rican. Gute s and ha tes the v
that has unitted the letes
is a G2 member-and thru hin hr wad me invest
Liowing me etc. has done tn because scene
Spont of the building I live in, and calling the
: have ever heard, and I almost broke every bene in
ined to get even with me in any way, Therefore I un
you again, please try to help my wife in any way av @li

sen to me, Thank you very much.
testi dtin aed See teat

cuncene

 

 

  

   
    
 
      

    

  

  

 
  
    
     
 
  
  
       
    
       
     
 
     
 
 
  
    
      
   

 
  

 

 
 
 

 
 

  

    

  

— ct EP byt

102 ORE

ES

ORD ITHO GO

ATy be be

ad

 

33

Ao)
[e)
CHR OC Ca

y
%

wnat: &

  

aes

3]

anda

zs

4c, oven if 0

sinc

tne

es new feel s

unother

th

DS o
all cver to
a> the denouncenents

“SPIRIDON" that asked. me for

te
the Senator, wv
neir hearts, I know

“1 be aele to write to FOU

of the Comitees or Deronso

- nave, been to visit 2 Comms
msied all about me, also th
ioc. that P.live in, anc nav

Ley QGvsavLons “Drove on.
tne G-2, Ihave ceen anvestigatec
py the Comitces
they have tom cook up & Ps
at all, untzi ft 4

  

 

   
 
 
 
 

  

anytaing,

   

oe I nave appl ak
- their visas in 8 DAY
co, just the other a: 50 §
s tneso people have asreaay -
te contact with a launch whe an Leave
rasx of ny staying here much ‘
Son ask {500 Doliars leit ne
ana all they paia vias avout 2000 Fesos, anc
a fortune. |

   

 

also t

“4

vo ad

   

    

 

pe, yOu cum be sure
indoctinaved , tecause
eve without settin
tay Torever, and no
G& tr
because I
sturongep, ana the
3 that ds bad:
in FCR? BE

 
  
 
  
  

   
   

Slow’ to

 
 

pecoie

        
         

ae
set

   

“rc Gnd are COING EO vae@k to Civilian jots now ,»anc the Cuban
ADAN arin 4 ¢ ty 4 peu ons
an ory MASS aS SLAG thes Wise yeu

cou

R

 

longer is greater %

dpeactricn

 

many

re ow
gOne

OOK

“oe vhousnndae
y way vnoy
re people nuw
you say car change tneir
tne hope that
wil the pecple talking
vies feel very much
nere are cetting lettes
31a, from the boyc that have
letters atl say that they have fanished their

9, think

 

   

ie

  
   
       
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
     
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
   

  
  

april-2-16t4

 
    

   
   
 

 

lust Week, tnese were 2 Guban ships, vesn Loaded with very ‘
arns.. They loaded rine guns,-artie

 
 

: and especially large.
guns ete, These arms were lcaded on the Cutan ships at the §2:20)
tnuy were loading so=e Ruesian Ships in the Rarbor to make it
co-all of the ships were going to Rusala, which we know of course 18

another lie here.’ .

    
     
      
      
    
   

  
 

 

a ete

ltan comaie that lect her Cubar.spustand

as wicsion a Tew yvecns ago. She was just released from, tpe Héspital
re Living in- the Havane Hilton Hotel, ‘in a large suite wi her mother
herve from Brazil. ‘che Gov't here is fixing up 4 hpuse for hor to live
he As starting to tape messages again to bo uroadcast to wrazil, juet

   
  

    
     
 
 
    
 
   
  

 

Rots: This ie:the Braz

a. . . agauue APRIL HS-15E4 °° oe
BURL 3 This 1s the ex~-ctevardese who was claiming to te in niding from
3 Sor aliost 2 years or more. gne is tne one whose passport was sent to
d e was supossed te go there by Launch. well she was just given.
wack by the reform urbana, ané is not worried to a nenoer of
1s expected to take ner old joo tack 46 stewardess on Cubana
spy on everyone there for the Gov't nere-She nay even teri.
nevrnere, and then go to the stutes for these red rata here
seroug, this traup Cf a comzie.On account of her, 4 steward
a Airlines, who was collecting money from grew kembers to keep her
Fs ZLF, as sne had écnounced his, after she could use hin no
denouncee hin as 2 FAIRY, and also as a COUNTER REVO. ULIGHARY.
just oefore they were going vo arrest nic. tne is a very close
SN RH tHE - :

 

ad

  

  

   
  
     
 
 
 
  
      
  
   
  
     

  

 

   

HABA.

   
  
  

,o are being sent

1 of tneir expenses

ds, ere a bunch of

yon une cover, when
iv

reg open Tor a 10% of BPa-
PATRIGTS, The Gov't of 2
every weex

 
 

      

    
   
   

ra to Tight the ceys Vv rn
un aay heppened. ot they Pour ugeinst the Cubans, now they
arg orys Lo Cet + est of cll, there are & lot of commies

C betes oa ) and now they intend to infiltrate

4

ey

frou the“irench kmoacsy asain last night
ese students on Calle 12 y» Malecon, they
tn the parking lot in mt of the building
wnere were 2 View vanrese students coins
‘son of the cutlding at snat nour. D8 Go pulls guard
me this car was
snt or the building.

 
 
   
  

 

 

   

   
  

 

It may oe a coineicence, DRL the

also 2 Viet Nanhese guards on duty
SEE ERE OH

re

   

but 1 can vell you that there

jot or rissiens leaving Cuba,
vers of the yellow race here

 

Te

are mos ore Chingse, Koreans,and other nes .

4n Guba tnan over vefore, now you see them like you used to see the Ruselanse
Sete ve Nese BENE GE

anish Repatriots that ore leaving nere on april 14 for Spain
1 of them lived in the U.S. and came nere
@hey both volunteered to fight agianst

  

@ of these Sp
and intend toro to the U.des
U.S. dike crazye

 

wugcPleya Giron aeal,
fevers AXD HIS BACTHER OVIMEO ‘i ORAS
. af a
we 9 : a

 

 
     
  
   
  
 

-_
PROPER FILE Fg
ad
a” ie

TO: ALL ADDRERSEES i
LANE IN BEC TOM 1 GH BACH. IPyAPPROPRIATE
A fined deased f\.
Ds aoceny WA dag “
EON \ ow ob. Rap

 

 

= ae i Po (|
| '
} __ Ne .

 

   
 

 
 

 

YIP ISALSO
6. a .

Wu fsa [.RelpTs

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RID/FI *

pote =
: TRACE
REQUEST
6

DATE MICROFILMED

  

 

8
"OP 6100 gimme SECRET “1 @ |

 
   

 
  

(WHEN FILLED. iN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
YNSTRUGTIONS

RIOR TO FILING : i TO: ACTION BRANCH

‘@ pac -
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back Detach back flap If file no. and title shown are not proper, -
inser! proper file no. below and forward

.- ee fGgw {oe
, 2 if a PAS... unless it records ws 4 tte RID/AN
jocument to :

@ Bat b's acthon taken or compfents requir-
ing preservahon

 
  

   
            
     
  

  
    
     

 

 

 

     
  

ry

   

        
    
 
     
   

 

7 PROPER FILE
g
Ps TO: ALL ADOREGSEES
= @ FILL IN SECTION 1 QN BACK. IF gAPPROPRIATE @ f
we + : Soe
r NENT! A hades When OF

Dts ce cueial hag om ¢ e
tt ache te Pap le

    

Dare loescams

rear teas

 

 

 

 

 

JUN 39) i
jen ee Wie ®
i
| tt
{Eien

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

eas SUNN Bigs -aeroh

   

 

  

“CLASSIFICATION,

 

DISPATER.

 

- Deputy Chief; aH/SA

 

 

 

 

 

FO. . ‘
i? ™ chief of ge mae wis ee | —} :
A wangr Operational /TYPIC , i

,

Transmittal of Letter from * AMSHOT=1

 

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

, ; ;
Transmitted henéwith are two copies of a latter received «i:

from AMSHOT-1, postmarked 14 April 19¢4 in Mexico, D.F. A
g furnished ODENVY per established ¥

say rarerrenain erate sioneanr oe kara

copy of the attachment is bein
e

        
  
    
    

custom,

3 END OF DISPATCH ~~ ~--~—~

 

Distribution: . a
3 - DC/WH/SA, w/atta
Attachment: ‘ "s
Lettor (a copies), h/w

- Ns come HEE RTREE FO
‘
 

Meas Nepean

RTT ORBIT Net A LEADS Le

 

jo
xRoT antack ~IBEHAS
so Old Havana where the Jewish Synagogue was 6ietri
wose ttems for -the Jewish Holidays to the Jewish People
5 I have seen trying to find out what I can avout the Sec:
? the Synegogue, who is a well known comale ( I wate acout
ES) 2 envelope ), I thought I would go there and browse
dttig vit. As I was sitting. in a chair right at the entrance
retury's office, I overheard a conversation between the Sec'y
mare They were speaking in Jewish, woien I understand perfectly
Phar tne conversation I learned something avcut this woman, whose
ede SalaRa, I will neve her iast nane bercre 1 send this letter
-¢ ig Jewish, but born in TURKEY, anc has been living in Cuba
yee 3 tebling this Commie Secer'y that from what she
er tole her by mail that she had been vhecked on ~

      
    
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 

pe

 

tp eto

G

   
 

 

 
  

not o by the Fal ix, CHIO. how this 4s what I have.learned about
her, Thi the Aunto or the ist. Secrty to the Guban Ambassador

nd fron what I have been told, he was eitner the ANB.
yo Te

SLAVIA BeFCRE THIS Poot. SHE Any HsR cousin

   

 
 

~& = WHICH ) ARE VERY VanY CLOoe, IN FACT SHE I5
NGI KELIFING TEE CUBAN DIPLUMATS WIPE AND CHILD GET READY TC Gu fu AUSTRIA,
This Diplomat wac arrested here in Eavena before the Revolution for being
a Comaie,( and I am told he is a real tis commie), This TAMARA also has

& son here wro 4s a Doctor, anc a 100 <f Marxiet-Lenist Commie, She is also
fem te, and avout e Years uo, this @aAlARA sent her daughter to the U.S.
The daughter went to live with a family named*GRCHNER, and some time after
she went to TLXAS to get married, where she is living now, The Mra. Groher
Tunderstana is CanaDLin, but has been living in the U.S. for sone time
-you,..Kow this part I cannot swear to, out T neardssomething about either
this Mre. Groner or else a sister of hers, tnat wus supposed to have been
‘the Secr't to someone tu that was connected in the ALGEX HISS case, Now,
vinen tnis TAKARA was telling tnis Commie Secr'y about her daughter heing
checkeu on by sae FBI, he told the mother not to worry, but to be very
careful what ehe writes to her daughter, and also not to call if she does
not have to. BUY THIS TAMARA 1S IN sfzabDY TOUCH WITH THE GROMER FamILy

BY MAIL, alb ALSO BY FHOKE, EVEN TROUGH THE DAUGHTER DGzS NOT HERK LIVE
Vid?n THEM ANY MORS, ALSO THIS Tahara Is ONE OF THE HEADS OF THE COMITEE
EERE Ih HAVAKA, THAT His SOMEPHING TO bO WITH GETTING SUME JEWS OUr OF ,
42 PUTURE .BY.SHIP .(-LEGALLY.,). THAT IS SUFPOSED TO CUME ExkE
IN A NOMSE C250, AND TAKE “PFE CUBAN BOX JEWS GO NEW YORK, AnD THE CUBANS
SHO WERE NOT BORN IN CUBA, TO ISRAEL, This Tamara is always visiting the
office here in Havana or the RELACLIGNESS EXTERICR ( RAUL ROA'S OFFICE ),
ER. GROMDR-IS.4 CPA Th OHIO, -THAT IS ALL 1-KNGY ABOUT HIM, I An GOING TO
THY TU GET HIS ADDRESS BEFORE THIS LET?xR GCES OUT. feciumpus, ort)

ET] 4

    
 
 

 

   

CEE -

  

 

 

=~.

 
