 

 

SERENE UT tL NEE cman a ete ere

eae ONE te ca oe

   

PLAS

‘
ha

Saas

‘

mo.

 

Sole

SECRET ;

 

in szeculaticn in ic
and occasionslly

activities are con

ans. gold, objets d's
old sary

 
 
 
 

      
 
  

y be fond in ft

Subject's hus 3 activities ray
s husband's mesledze

especially SX-23634 on Subje
market activities, and Mewraniim for the Pecord, date
Subject's huscand's 201-922953.

TO SOVIET PAIL CESGRSGP

 

 

   

8. INFORMATION PERTAL
Ko information.

nt

9. KNCWLESCEASILITY PEG@OOTNG KGB MODUS O7EX

   

None.

10. IDENTIFICATION OF ChER SOVIETS WH) MAY SE OF PCSSIELE GS
INTEREST:
~ In addition to those individuals covered above in peragraphs
two and three, Subject was debriared on the following Seviet persenaiities
who may be of marginal operaticn2l interest.

 

 

A. Lev GOZOVSKIY: CGrosovskiy is the Director cf the Dental
Polyclinic near the Dzerzhinskoye metro station in central }
This clinic is located near the building of the Soviet Ministry of Foreign
Trade and is fr 2d amd

 

   
 

ted by many Soviet cfficials who travel abroad and
their families (ci. Paragraph ZH#(1) above on Bystritskaya). Crozevskiy,
as director of the polyclinic, is very knowledgeable on its clientele.
Himself an oral surgeon (stecetolog), Grozovskiy is about 35 years old
and a Jew. Subject ret hin through her brother Leonid MOGILEVSXIY who

is a stomatologist by training. Grozovskiy is a Party merrer. His
daughter, Liliya, is also a stccatologist and is rarried to a construction
engineer named Levy LMU. In order to supplecent his inceme, Grozovskiy
dues private dental work on the side (na levo}.

 

B. Tatyana ZAREDSKAYA is another stenatologist ecployed
at the dental polyclinic described above. About 45 years cold, she is
Jewish ard a Party menber, born in Moscow. Her first husband, whose
surmane she still uses, was Yevzeniy ZAREDSATY, who worked at the sme
Clinic as a aentai tecnnologist. ner second husband, Frin titw) is an
architect, who is also a Farty member. Zaredskay2, as of Cotober i973,
was considering applying to legally emigrate from the Soviet Union.
Also invoived ia work “on the side, Zaredskava averaged rive rubles
per tooth in her illegal private practice. Officially, a centist gets
only one ruble fer filling a tooth.

7

 

SECRET

 

perenne

 
 

i
}
3
i
*
?
@
i
#
3
A
i
&
:
Fa
:

 

wee

 

<j

is

re,

2 PE,

A
Pac Sim

ao

rs

Ft Re

.
ee

ab +

 
      
  
  
 
  

ee, kornus
26 Baxinskish Mtnisssrev in Moscow. This couple is Jew:
Candidates of ef Science. Subject believes vr field of
foysics. They both wrk in the same very secret instait
only by post office tex. Subject cc9s not rnew the ication
of this installation. Zoth fron Moscow, the husband ¥
42 years old, his wife about 40. They have an eleven-
naced Zhenya (Yevgeniy). Viktor apparentiy reeds English and understands
Spoken. Engiish to an extent. He is tall and dark, with 4 salid null.
She looks like a tepical Armenian with shert dark curly hair, cark eyes,
and a deep olive cocpiexion.

 

  

  

 

DB. Galina SERGEYEVA, torn in 1952 in Moscow, came froa
a poor worker's ferily. In 1870, when she was 18, she got a job in the
desartrent of aczinis ‘tration for Soviet foreign corresponients in the
Soviet Ministry of Foreign Agcairs. Working in a menisl cepacity there,
she received a meager salary cf less than eighty rubles fer month, ani in
order to sunplement | her incese, became involved in illega? black market
foreign currency deals. She began sleeping around with bisck students
at Lummbs University (FFU) from whom she received foreism currency
{valuta}. She used this to make transactions in the foreign currency
stores. In 1971, when she was only nineteen, she was erprehended by
the police (..D) who took her to the Petrovke, She received a two-year
sentence which forbade her te travel anywhere outside of the environs
of Moscow. She lost her job at the Ministry cf Foreign Aitcirs, and
got a job as a secretary in saze esteblishzent in Moscow Cdlast'. In the
meantime, she marrica one of the black students she had been sleeping
with. Subject doesn't mow his name. He finished his terz at Lumsba
about 1-1/2 years ago ard sought to return hore. As she w2s forbidden
to leave Mescow by virtue of her criminal record, he divorced her and
returned to Africa clone. Despondent, Galina proceeded to begin
sleeping araad again with other black students and diplemets and
dealing in foreign currency exchanges once again. Subject described
Galina as a plain-looking girl.

  

 

   

 

E. Sofiya SHURINA is Subject's second cousin on Subject's
sige. She is 24-years-old, a gr te of the pedascgical
facult cf = technicim, e she speci Stisae in cus then
completed the Pedagogical Institute imeni Lenin by stucying evenings -
and received a dipleza in 1973. She currently teaches pizm in a
raisic schoci. Uraarried, Shurina hes a large circle of friends arcng
@iplexats and foreign stujents. She is also involved in black market
operations.

           

 
 

8

 

SECRET
 

UNIT ON eM arrears tei Ceneen e

2

 

 

_in Stockholm. The couple derarted ¢

 
  

 

3

a man
she landed a ;
Caters only to forcigners.
obtained a position as chaut

 
   

ee Intourist i
cugh ker gwn co tions, srolecova

wur for her husband at the Swviet Embassy
ther for Sweden abcut a year 220,
S chat beth Mholedcva and her

 

   

in the summer of 1975. Subject beli

   

    

hus report to the Ca. Subject's husband bi uy is a
KGB officer. Zoth of thess people were described by Subject as faithful

Communists and good Party enters.

C. See Paragraph 13 ateve for inforsstic
when Subject heard was an American spy who had been

  

 

4. DISSILECE INFCRMATICN:

Subject was never involved in any dissident activities in the
Soviet Union. Si2 had no interest in underground literature (sanizdat)
and never read any, nor did che ever recd Russian-language brocxs
published abroad. Ic is unlikely Subject would have read such material
or participated in dissident activities even had ske had the chance to do
so, as Subject and her husband disdained the efforts of the Soviet

dissidents as foolish and pointless. Subject herself has only a secondary

educaticn and limited mentality. She is not interested in idsolegical
matters und is an apolitical person. It is highly coubehid Sudject
read mech of anything, forbidcen or otherwise.

None. Subject has difficulty differentiating between the
various minority nationalities of the Soviet Union and tems to lump
certain of then together uncer convenient generic terms, such as
"Siriytsy" (Syrians) for Soviets of Turkic or other Moslem nationality
descent. Subject had no interest in the plight of minority nationalities
in the USSR. She recognized it was her Jewish ancestry which helped
her to cnigrate legally from the USSR, but that is as far as it went.

6. COMMENT CONCERNING FOREIGN RADIO BROADCASTS TO THE SOVIET UNION:

Not covered in this debriefing. Subject never mentioned listening

to foreign radic, ssing.

 

7. CRIME IN THE SOVIET UNION:

Subject eppsrently was not personally invelved in criminal
activities in the Soviet Union, but she was well aware of her husband's
continual black market operations. Subject's hushend dealt successfully

6

SECRET
 

see WELL EILIOA, PE BME Leite wale oo

“oe

4
ia]

 

in Sate

FcR Soke 2h

abe

 
  

eee TEA a

 

 

 
    

SECRET .
perished guring World war TL. Subj ertain her hilf-Lrcther
Nozilevskiy can supply much additicnal inforcation on Antonov.

(5) Ley -22ARYAN, a 45-year-ol¢ Armenian, is the Director
of the “Charodeyha" beaz saion, lecated cn Xalinin Proszeix in ¥escow.
Sexerding to Subject 2 is ene of the two rost fashiorzble
beauty salons in ie inted with frcaryea
tercugh her mocher, wo worked as 2 cashier at the Charade salen
froa_- 1670 to 19735, Acbaryan is the personal barber of Als <sey XOSYGIY
Chiccan of the USS2 Comcil of Ministers. He constantly goes to
Kosygin's apartment to cut Ris hair. Anbaryan has also tra
on several occasions Aiming the past few years to cerpete i
international barber comretitions, trinarily those held i
camtries. In additicn t> Xesygin, Ambaryan has other c S within
t&e top rank of the Party ard goverrzent, whose hair he cuts in their
private apartrents. yerage heicht, Ambaryen looks lixe a typicz
Arzsnian -- he is plump with black curly hair, black eyes, and an olive
coxplexion. His wife, Tazara AMBARYAN, is about 40 years oid, and also
works as a barber (for ren) at the Crarodeyka salon.

  
  

   
  

   
   

 

3. ARRESTS AND FCSSIBLE KGB RELATIONSHIPS:
A. Subject claims she was never arrested.

B. Subject icentified the following individuals as
~affillated:

GQ) Subject's neighbors on the first floor of house

ramber three, korpus three on ulits2 26 Bakinskikh Kormissarov in Moscow,
who occupied, she believes, apartment number 350, were 2 couple naned
Tanya (Tazyana) and AXATCLIY (LMU). Subject considers Tanya an informer
{stukach) for the KG3. Officially, Tanya works scmexhere on the
Ploshchad Nagina. Her husband, Anatoliy (Tolya) is the sen of an
icportant Party man who is the Head of a trust. The father gets good
jess for Anatoliy. Anatcliy was in Iran from about 1972-73 as 2
translator; he speaks English and sere French. Subject epined he probably
worked for the KGB there. although he was officially undar the auspices
of the Ministry of Foreim Affairs. When he returned to Moscow in
about 1975, his father got him a job as a Corstruc i
tiffe research wate (ot 5
fes the couple has many friends who work in cr around the KGB.

(2) Subject was formerly well-acquainted with Tacara
KXLODOVA (siden ne}, who worked in Subject’ Ss last place or
exployment as a master hairdresser from 1967-72. {the Salen Number Cze
oa Suznetsky Most in Moscow}. Bom about 1946 in Moscow end a Russian
national, Kholodova is a Party activist who held positions of inpcrtance
in the Komsanol Comaittee of the Dzerzhinskiy rayon. Ia abougd ori,

 

 

 

 
 
     
 

  
    

   

 

5
SECRET

Ree
 

SECRET

 

F. Sea separate SX meso No.
jeurnalist eploved in the American sec
Agency (APN) in Moscow. . ‘

é

  

 

G. See separate SX mexo No. 23702 on Mikhail ROSTAROUK,
Izvestiya correspondent, ind his wife, [ving payh TA POSTABAK,
her or Russian literature in a closed rilitary instizure.

H. Subject identified the following additional persons
who occupy Fositicns of intellicence interest, who serve oad, or
wie travel to the Nest. In the cases of those cersons cescribed belew,
there was insufficient information from Subject or insufficient apparent
vulnerabilities to justify serarace SX reporting.

   

  

  
 

(1) Yelena pr BYSTRITSSAYA, a rather well-trown Soviet a ’

film actress «ho vas born about 193: in Moscow. (ne of her Zamous roles
was in the film of Shololcor's novel "Tikhii Don" (Quiet $ the Don}.
sub) ect met Bystritskaya through her twin sister Vera DIVSINA in about

isos. At the time, Subject's sister was working in Moscew as an .
erderly at the dental polyclinic rear th Dzerzhinskiy metro station,
rot far from the Ministry of Foreiga Trade. 3 polyclinic serves
vany Soviets kno truvel abroad -- ezployees ot the Ministry of Foreign
Trade, the Ministry of Foreign Afzairs, and, Subject ussimes, the KG3.
Bystritskaya wis 2ble to have her teeth fixed t there as she is rarried
to a Soviet dizlorat, IGR LNW. Subject is cert. he has a differen
Surname than his wife? s who has retained hers thrcughout their marriage. :
Izor's current assigrment is to a high diplomatic post in the Soviet
Exbassy in Paris. Subject believes he holds the rank of counseler.
about 50 years old, Igor was born in Moscow. Ee is tall, on the thin
side, with grey hair, and a distingu ing face. He left for
kis cs assigment in Paris in 1973. Subject believes Igor completed
the Institute of Foreign Trade (not further identizied by Subject)
in Moscow, Bystiritskaya has not accempanied her husband on his tcurs. - :
abroad as she kas ner own film career to pursue in Moscow. She did
travel with hic en vacation to France in about 1965 or 19693 her :
husband speaks fluent French. Bystritskaya is a totally apolitical - .
re] person who is interested only in her career; basically she has a good
§ heart. Both Bystritskeya and Igor are Party members.

 

f

Seas

     

 

 

 

    

 
  

 

 

 
 

. (2) Aleksey pru lm and Galina pm lu: This couple :
Me lived as of Octcher 1975 on the Sth flcor of house number three, korpus ; . ,
three, on ulitsa 26 Bakinskikh Komissarcv in Moscow, where Subicct ..

ani her husband re: asided fren 1970 through 1975. Tre husband, ALEESEY,

is a Dagestani @azestanets) rational, who is a Professor of Cardiciogy

in an important medical institute on Birogov street. He was born 2bout
1959. His wife, GALINA, born in Mescow in about 146, is a Russian naticnal.

SECRET

 

aed

 

Ag

os

cm

 

an

AE. US.

x
 

RREECTEEDE Nm Am, witabnd ane HS eneim oot

 

 

SecReET

  
   
 

xs in the sone redics) institut? as does
lieve either of then are Party penbers
st. They raintain 2 large coliscti

> and other iz aj
hs tn the bisc!

 

Sre is also a paysician ands
her jushand. Subject doesn
and both are extremly anti
foreiss books, both in Russ
ey tay and sell these bee's
disronés and illegaily-procered foreign woods 2 as we
an English-language history cf the Communi ist Party of the Soviet Union,
publisned, Sudject thinks, sterica, in their book collection.
The cazle has a 1-1/2 year cil daughter, Masha (Mariya).

of

 

 
 
 
 

  

(3) LIN (LNU). probably corently exployed in the Near

Eastern departrent of the huicst: Press Agency in loscow. Subject met
Lina when Subject wes empley asa master hairdresser at Saicon Nunber
Five cr wlitsa Kazitskaya_ in Sescow, which is located near the APN
building from 1987-6 ect's clients there and
contimed to have Su hair when Subject coved to Salen
Nunber Six on ulitsa Medvedeva. Never married, LIXA was born 2bout
1939; szz is a Pussian national. From about 1966-71, she served as
secretary to Danya pnu Inu (ossibly identifiable as Kim Axhnedovich

KOSHEV), who was then a politi cal attache in the Soviet Embassy in
Damascus. When she returned t3 Moscow, she began working in the Near
Eastern section of Novosti, bt told Subject in 1972 that she expected
to be sent abroad <: again to a Soviet embassy, probably in the Micdie East.
About 5*<" in t ght, Lina is stocky and plump, with short recd hair
teased high on her head, green eyes, a straight nese, ard a round face.
A simple, uncomplicated perscn, Lina's interests are food, goad
restaurants, good times, liquer, and her rany lovers, most of whon are
in the Soviet diplcratic commumity. Lina comes from a worker's fanily
and probably has only a secondary education.

   
   
 

    
          

 

(4) Gemnadiy pra ANTONOV (Subject is not absolutely
sure of his surname; Antonov was as approximate as she could come).
Subject end her sister eccupiod Antonov's ezartment on Kholturinsiaya
ulitsa near the Preobrazhenshove retro station off and on for a year in
about 139-70. At the time, Antonov was serving in econcmic affairs in
the Soviet Embassy in Madrid. Subject believes his tour there was fran
1968 until 1973. Antonov is 2 Slose frierd of Subject’ s half-brother
Leonid 'knavicvich ‘4 EVSNIY (sce SX- ) who arranged fer his
sisters v3 join Antcrov's rotner Mariya Ivanovna in the large 4-reoa
apartment while Antcnov was away. Subject ret Antonov once in 1970
when he was on home leave in Moscow. Subject describad him as abcut
average height and weight, with dark brown short hair, and square-rimed
glasses. Subject puts Antoncy's approxirate date of birth as 1339.
Antonov's wife, who accorpanice hin to Madrid, is tall and fat. Subject
doesn't remianber her nane. The ceuple hsve a daughter, possibly naned
Natasha, who would be about nine years old teday. The caughter yas not
with her rarents in Snain. Subject thinks she learned fron her brother
that Antorov finished the Instine of Forezm Relations (IMO) uncer the
Ministry ci Fereign Affairs, where he s English wong other

 

     

    
 

z
lan,uasts. Ho is a carcerist = at Party 6 2 ho fclions the seraight
and” narrex ideological path, at lecst on the surface. Antonov's father
4
SECRET

oo ee TR Tat
 

_

i SECRET : .
i L. ISPKD page 9, paregrazh 10F, Subject's acquaintance Lev

j Tanovich MIPMAN. There are no traces on MIMGN. As of April 1971 H

fa tne chief of U2X0 in Moscew was one B. Ye. SAMAREXO.

a .

Es : M. ISPKD page 9, paragraph 10G, Subject's acquaintance

i anatoliy PISH. There are no traces on

§ ABISH, Anatoliy , F

2 SEX: M {

& Dos: C1940 ai

5 2: USSR

i CIT: USSR

$ OCC: Engineer - . : :
By LOC: USSR, Moscow : \

Known to 201-926536. Construction engineer for research i
institute. Grad of Kuytyshav Building Institute. An extremely anti- . !
Soviet Jew, he wants to enigrate. :

N. ISPKD pase 9, paragraph 10H, Subject's acquaintance
Svetlana KALMAN. There are no traces cn

“PRC UTE ETRE an GOT
.

&KALMAN, Svetlana
SEX: F

DOB: C1934 i
POB: USSR . :
CIT: USSR . ‘
OCC: Model ,

LOC: USSR .

‘Known to 201-925536. Well-inowm mannixin at Mcdels' House. :
Umnarried. Knows many foreigners. Mother works for Intourist. :

 

 

 

 

 

SB/SA
. 6
SBSA/BS
Distribution: ; ;
Orig. - IP/AN (classify into 201-926536, ZR ANICGNOV to 201-857957, t. :
ZR MOISEYEY to 201-5¢9959, index all asterisked names.) . i

1 - SB/CCPS (via AD/SB/COPS/SA)

1 - SB/USER

1 - SB/SL/I Sterile Distribution: . DS

1 - SB/X/EU 1 - FBI (Part one only) ot

1 ~ SBSA/DS chrono 1 - D&D (Part one only) :

SECRET Lo

   
  

.

 
 

104-40219-10090

 

2)

SECRET

G.
Tamara MELODOVA
on AnOLOO%A or }

     
 
 

ect's acquaintance

5 par-sraph 33(2}, Subj
: There are no traces |

H. ISPD page 7, raregraph 104, Subject's acquaintance Lev H
GROZOVSATY. There are no traces on GROLCVSKIY. i ‘

1. ISPLG cage 7, paragraph 163, Subject's acquaintance
Tatyana ZAREDSKAYA. There are mo trazes on

SZAREDSKAYA, Tatyana
F

 

: Denrist :
: USSR, Moscow :

Known to 201-926536. Subject is a dental surgeon. She is 1
Jewish and a Party mecber. Now married to her second husband Petr LNJ. :
She is considering emigrating. :

J. ISPKD sage 8, paragraph 10D, Subject's acquaintance Galina 7
SERGEYEVA. There are no traces on . t

SSEQGEYEVA, Galina ; Pog '
SEX: F i

DOB: «(C1932 :
FOB: USS2, Moscow

CiT: USSR

Occ: Secretary

SA WREHIOT PRR RR ns Men ra Rite eNO CRr nee CERRMN eames ERE

 
  

Known to 291-926536. Former MEA secretary. Divorced from a

a foreign black student. Has been arrested for black market dealings. : :
a K, ISPKD pase 8, paragraph 10E, Subject's Gecond cousin) boa ——

06

Sofiya GURINA, There are no traces on

2 ah

    

& *SHURINA, Sofiya Poy
Ag SEX: F . :
Bie Gus: Cis30 | ‘

POB: USSR ; g
CIT: USSR : . 1 .
QC: Music teacher LO i ,
LOC: ~=USSR, Moscow : : 7
Known to 201-°26535. Piano teacher. Black marketeer. Has a co
large circle of frients among diplezats and foreign students. a

u
wtecen’ SECRET Se

 

 

en SERIALS NT Ia Pie a mm

   
74-00000

me,

 

 

:
a
a
§
i

»

lentpeee tet Mes
RESemee anes we

     

A RROD. ow.

SECRET

 

st 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR T= FECORD

SUBFT: Internz} Supplement to Prelini: nary Knewledgeability
Debriezing of Soviet iaigre trina Mikniylevna LIPXIN

  

The following information was rade available by Subject,
Irina Mikhaylovna LIPKIMA, in response to inquiries based cn
Part if of the Debriefing Guide. This informaticn is fer internal
use culy.

1. FOREIGN CONTACTS/AQQUAINTANCES WHILE IN TRE SOVIET UNIGN:

A. Viktor (LU) is a guest of the Sovier Goverrment, a
scholarship smident at Moscow State University (GU). A black
African fron Nigeria, where his father s-ill resides, Viktor (ala
Victsr) is marric’ to a Soviet wemin about 27 years old who is an
instrxtor in the Engiish faculty of MGU. Viktor himself is probably

in his early thi jes. Viktor traveis a lot on journalistic
essicments; Subject diin't know whether Viktor's journalistic jobs
are performed for Soviet press organs or foreign periodicals. Subject
recaiis Victor claias to have relatives in the United States. Victor's
wife, waose nase Subject could not remember, should have had a baby
about six or seven months 2g0, i.e. in about January or February 1974.
Victor hates living in the Soviet Union; ke feeis persecuted because
of racial discrixination against hinself and, especially against his
wife for having carried a Negro. He fears for the fate ct his mulatto
baby. As soon as he can arrange to get her out of the country with hin,
he intends to settle in Eagland, where he allegedly has money in the
bank, placed there by his father from Nigeria. Svdiect could not
prov even approxunate dates when Vixtor may have originally arrived
in the LSsk. ssdivct believes Vantor is still 2 Nigerian citizen. -

  

  

 
    

 

B. Bill (presumably Willias) MARTIN

Ee EOE

Subject s had been told by her cousin Sofiya SA2RG

and a friend Igor ERENSURG that MARTIN had been an American spy who
arrived in Moscow about 1965. His espionage activities were allegodly
discovered by the KGB, who interregated and broke him. Through
interrogation, the kG3 was able to "Uouble" him back against the
Americans. Under tre detriefer's queries as to why the KCB would have

  

  

SECRE
 

SECRET .

t use for a doubled Anerican tgent in sooca., Subject replied she
oa didn’ ¢ wxerstant why Surtin could be a vzlusble double agent, nerely |
, she had teen told he was.

  

When Martin first arrived in Moscow, circa 1945, he was H
about 32 years old. He is now at least ferty, althouch he looks :
somewhat younger. He is about 6 fest, trree inches toll with very
short plone hair, a rowd, freckiaid fuce, olua eyes, and an average :
build. He is urcarried, reportedly has no exployzent, and resides
in a large apartment building sear the ebassy district in Moscow.

  

<

  

 

C. Subject was acquainted with ERIC (LW, a mathematician
and member of the French tean at the Serpukhov atenic center. Eric
and Subject's husband were engazed in speculation in icons.

 

BD. Subject met several other foreign rationals with when
her hustand tradec in foreign currency, icons, objets d'art, but
could not remember any additional cetails abcut thes which are not '
covered in debricfings of her husband.

2. RELATIVES, FRI
OF INTELLIGENCE i ici

Ado. 6

  
   

fs:

A. See separate SX meso No. 23624 on Alla ard Danya LNWU,
probably identifiable as Alla ami Kim Akimedovich KCSEEV. Koshev is
second secretary of the Soviet Exbassy in Aman, Jordan.

B. See separate SX revo No, 23628 on Sergey MANESHIN, ©
physicist, exployed in a sc ific research institute under the
auspices of Moscow State University.

   

C. See separate SX necro No. 23642 on Galina Davidovna
BABUSHKINA, Soviet hairdresser and judge of international competitions,
and her Imsband, Leonid BASUSHKIN, an oral surgeon. ‘

BD. See separate SX rem Mo. 23635 on Sudject's half-brother
Leonid MOGILEVSKIY, now a resident of Vienna, Austria, as well as
information on Mogilevskiy in Paragraph 14B of the Preliminary
Knowledgeability Debriefing of Subject.

: E. See separate SX cero Wo. 25095 on subject's first ccusins °
Leonid Khaymovich and Grigoriy Khaymovich SOKOLOVSKIY, 2 physicist and

an aviation ergineer respectively, both of whom are involved in secret

work.

2
SECRET

 

 
