    

 
  

tet wd a. Pel
pet aan

   

 
npc

Lrt. ne Spee

 

hee
heat

 
74-00000

 

source: because + alr of then word taped by the Pa 2). LAicoscil had’ .

 

to be careful to avota questions: er answers “which put obstacles in
the path of securing the turnover of Source and what he had brought”

with him, ‘ha final “deeision of the Canadian Government, after the

intarvention of the Ottawa Station, was tuat fhe Source and the docunents

 

could bo turned over but not the rioncy.

The Source said that the accounts for an Ingellivence Officer in
the OCI are net subgeeted te close {inspection and that, in fact, he

had the authority aa a desk ‘officer Ln ch narse of the Salvadorian
rt .
area to request substantial atiounts for oparctions without any nocd for
fer eer nena soreness
accountings, A typical exanplo 43 that he could draw for every trainee
tet
from his own assigned area 31200 without question, Ue éia have to give

we es,

Oe rn

 

 

 

 

9 nae eat hen erent tie ig saunter ee EC lee nn tetany
detailed accountings for larger expenditures.) .

eee anne eee

 

 

seem.

 

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Comsat ere Uh:

OT fuel or Jeu ape ao ol frpole
Lip lowe hie. €_ wee bee “ot CroraT
Lames Kopey Mim Tora iiervacte

7 . ahah wn Te Chen y anata Ge — A

an fox fo’ eta Vy pane fete pee Few
. oe fark 7. on foes clase
. : fe a7Tfwery .  Snwhrge ye wes vege

ae? piyeaet gee B bbe

.

prot chy re Megach.
74-00000

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

-2-

   
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

pecting relating to revolutfonary activities to be ear: vied ous in

   

The ‘Souree aid ‘this: because is Beencd ta his tha vest.

way of eotting out" oe: Cuba vith docuncats which he had. gathered, The,

 

“Soures’ was, ‘successful in convincing the ‘Depaty Chiot of ‘the’ ‘Sarvice that”

   

the @ qpetaktonal seating in Prague was a necessary Followup ‘to the:

 

: ip to hiexteos When Source; prepared his drietease, for
zt of cuba. he ‘found that only a part of the dséuzents ‘watch |
‘ha! had been colieeting “would fit. ‘na selected those whieh appeared

” most interesting and left the others locked in his office in the DST. .
Tt was the Source's intention to seck asylum once he arrived in the

. free world at the first stop in Canada and:to. vequest ict that he be
permaitted te go to the U.S. with the documents to surrender then to
KUBARK, ;

3. Soureé collected the documents over a period of tine at

“of other CUIS officers in their desks or safcs, Source made it a custon
‘to visit these offices and to take advantage of the teaporary absence of:

the officers assigned to them to’ steal the documents which he then put in

_ his om safe,

“4, The Source was quite worried because he feared that when he arrived

at the airsort to Leave Cuba he might be required to open his bricfease,
: This fear proved groundless, and he was able to Leave Guba ‘on 2. April 6% :
ona flight for Prague which had tostop at Malifax, Canada,
5S, Prior to: leaving Cubaf the Source withdrew irom hk his savings
account in a Cuban bank all that he had which amounted to 127¢ cban

pesos, He gave this amount to his wife whose nane is Luisa RODRIGUEZ

Rodriguez (maiden name sane as marricé dame), In giving the money to her

MER (CO.
FL Gabunreer&

 

considerable xisk because a number of the docunents were in the possession ~

 

ie

ve
 

 

‘104-10186-10325) |

 

 

 

aod

SSIET: Socureats Brought ut by alae

Thea.

‘Geoment A

signed TAGUSTO.

Lette

used within the DGL for’ ‘the Deputy catet who is “snow in th
Sozeign Relations.as GUAT

2 MING explained chat the head of the setviea, 3 Nanzet ery: P
went to Moscow on a trip Isaving Cuba 11 April 1964,
vacently had seturned ften Mexico on 23 March 1964,
of PiNSIND the Source told the Deputy Chief that is

hin, .the Sourea, to go to Prague so that ke could

These are the truce name ant position of CARRTLL
tha reason for naking an operitional necting in Prague knowing acainy
_ Deputy Ciie£ of the’ Service would not Know any betier.

gone to Lexico on 14 March 1964 for the purp se of

«| .
with GARLILLAS and ether menbers of the Communist varty from Z1 Salvador,

te ar>ear.
L ad

that he nad a necting ia iexico which nade it necess

necting in Prague with Cin

 

        
   
 

NG OF ANSUS-L

1 and Wis Gorments Conediii

 

1. A letter dated 20°

   
 

This dantcer _Paque

 

zwas given to SHEL

introduce hin to the act: officsr assigned to ‘Prague. : “asusto" is. ps0 do”

The Source (4-1)
After the ‘departure
was necersaty for °.
sect on 22 April with

2 S\RIEIAS 016190, ‘the Secretary Gandal, PRN in GL Salvador,

 

but the Source: invented by

{The Source .

holding a meeting -

menting really did fot take place because the Salvadorians failed
In talking to the Deputy Cuicf of the Service, the Source said
am’ fot him to have a

RRILLAS, who had to be in Pregue for still another

 
 

 

- he did not say” that ae intended to defect and, in fact, never poems
. ye hae

 

that ‘she had sufticiont funds at hand to tac

care of any. ‘sasrgenetes in.

   

The GUIS (DGI) sent a cable to Prague to advise that the: Source
would be arriving, Accordingly,when the Source lefi the plane at Ualigax
it was a foregone conclusion that his failure to acrive as scheduied vould
de reported to his own Service,

7. In addition, when the Souree did arrive at Hlalifae che pilot and
erew of ‘the airplane and tae other passensers becane avare of the £act
that he had requested asylum in the free world. They called hin a traiter

which led hin to statg that he was No more a traitor for leqving the present

  
  

tro was for opposing the Batista Regine, The intere
»

change of comments /betwesn the: Source and those who vere continuing on the

Regime than Fidel GC

flight te Prague almost resulted in a fist eightat Haligax, The Source
took from Quiba 32615 in U.3. Dills . veactically all of this azount was
what reuained from the idvince -iven to him by DGI when he wont to

Mexieo: vc which he had not accotinled} plus the eavence givea hin for

the trip to Prague, When he declared nis intention to Sinadian cuthorities

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

te remain ia gansda ‘he

      
 

3‘ also ssc The ‘St £ference ° £..$75,00 -
als

acreency Cehte reeetp

   

that he had in iit poehot ‘ 2 ute-4 fo expénges wntle in cans

hat in tile briefésse 250 Salvadofian Colones “Zie -efeh ‘the Ganaétans”

  

did fist given’. Maa receipt, a __Joneteao exse clit

 

  

oan i ngioa of the Canadian covalent.)

  

(Tho batter as its vlgney which the Sources had taken froa oaba Inter
beeane a problea with the Canadians, larcely because on talking with
tho Canadian Immigration Sorvice ‘the Source indicated that the money
belonged to the Qiban Government rather than to hinsalf, mis was
Feported fo the Canadian External Atfaics Office and led to a Uceision
by the Canadian Government te hold the money «-U.S, and Salvadoriane=
so that it could db returned to the Cuban Governmiops if request” Tais
docisio (of wich the Source was nade aware by! per request, of

(ad

GH made hin angry and dt his request the wis teld that,

   

 

in Spurce's- opinion, if the money was returned so ‘it would be used for

promoting revolutions in the free world which included Canada, The

said tvat in all probability the sionay would not be returned to

the Cuban Goverment and within a matter of montis would bo turned

 

over to KUBARK for return to the Soubce tut that thd could not

 

give it to the Source or to LANGOSCI,

In this connection it shoule be noted that when LANGOSGI arrived

in Canada no decision had been nade as to the disposition which sould

be made net only of the moncy but also of the Source hissel? and the

documents which he had in his possession, Tu OLD LANGOSCH that

 

. bib
