oye!

 

. cet aS

~

-* 23 Septeaber 1959

HEXCRSKDIM P23 THE RECORD Bagi Tura, Yon
- tect . ‘Or: 8D
susssct; WES Livingston WER-BELL 777 , %o Non Ig Use 4
Repre ugly

1. Subject phoned me on 9 September 1959 to say that he was -
in Atlants and to ask if anything ie been done concerning our use
of hin ic|the Sonirican Republic)! 1 told hia that ve are sti.
‘waiting the results of the investigation end that I would be in
‘toush with hin when the infornation is complete. He said it was
rather urgens that he go to the Domhican Republic because of the
many rumors that something ia about to start there against Guba.
I told him that I appreciated his sense of urgency Sut that the
matter is not one that I ean control. Subject sald that he has -
Some business reasons for going there but that they sre not -
sufficiently crgent to warrant his spending his own funds for a
trip to the Souinican Republic at this time. He said that Joe
MEROLA and a mmber of others have been discussing the counter-
felting of United States dollars and Cuban pesos for use In
connection with Cuban revolutionary activities.

2. cit Subjest that in view of Uiis euiier, which was a
possible serfous violation of United States lav, I would urge hin
to visit the FBI office in Atlanta ead to give then the full
story on this atter. ie said he vould do so on the following
day.

3. On 1} September Subject phoned me at my hone to say that
he had been i> see the FBI people in Atlanta ani that they had
referred hin to the Secret Service office there becazse of the
counterfeiting aspect. He said no one seemed particularly
interested ix the gun running aspect of the situation. He seid
that the Sectes Service had asked hin te go to Kiand at his om
expense’ to stvain further informstion on the matter. He asked
my advice. i-said that I could not influence hin one way or the
other on this since I was not ina position to direct his activities,
but I felt be ateht be better off to take no action in regard to
this sitvation since he’was not in a position to lay out the
additionel money that would be required for another trip to Mfand.

IT tole Subsest I would be in touch with him ss soon as I hed further
inforzation sazserming our possible use of him. . 23

2. 2

 

 

 

 
