14-00000 _

 

~ Fe id 6 veered 20)
: oN
VeePi aL ,

"Tragic death of President Kennedy requires all
of us to look sharp for any unusual intelligence
developments. Although we have no reason to
expect anything of a particular military nature,
all hands should be on the quick alert at least
for the next few days while the new President
takes over the reins.”
It is appropriate at this point to observe the general reaction

to be expected from such a communication. Without any leads, other

“than those arising from Oswald's identification, the requirements to

field stations were necessarily general. General reporting can be

‘stimulated by general requests, if there is something to report, and

this is what was undertaken. In addition, in any event, intelligence
assets and liaison services overseas are quick to realize the signifi-
cance of important information and will report it on their own initiative.
It is significant, in the light of these considerations, that there has -
been the most limited reporting on the subject. Were there relevant
or significant information on the subject it would have been reported
either in responses to the expression of general interest, or
spontaneously, if such information was known to Agency sources.

_If one believes that there was a conspiracy, with Oswald involved,
one must accept the likelihood that his fellow conspirators would not
have shared their knowledge beyond the narrow circle of thase directly

involved. Conversely, if there were no conspiracy, there obviously

eer taaees
+ “4
Wei dos en

8
 

Pt i ag
Whikasdiiek
oe ” :

would be nothing ‘to report in the first place. The absence of concrete
reporting seems to serve, regardless of which is the case, as the basis
for the apparent SSC view that no collection effort was undertaken.

As has been noted above, there were initial CIA collection re-
quirements to the field. What they could be realistically expected to
produce must be related to whether there was any information to collect
at all, and if so whether it was accessible. The requirements were issued,
but in retrospect it is doubtful that they could produce much of the who-
what-where-when-how information that typifies intelligence collection

reporting. A reflection of the basic nature of the problem is found in

‘the Headquarters cable to Mexico City on 17 December 1963 (note above)

which contains the following comment about the limited reporting from
other stations: ,

", . . this partly dictated by the facts of Lee

Oswald's life. . ."

The SSC Final Report speaks in rather unqualified terms at page 10
about the resources of the intelligence agencies, including a description
of "an extensive intelligence network in Cuba," suggesting that it was
only necessary to ask to get. I[t is correct to say that there were
sources in Cuba able to report on events, such as troop movements, but
there were no penetrations of Castro's inner circle, where any infor-
mation on the subject in question would exist. The distinction apparently
was missed --‘or ignored -- by the authors of the SSC Final Report. As
stated by the Miami Chief of Station, quoted at page 58 of the SSC Report:

"Now if you are referring to our capability to conduct
an investigation in Cuba, I would have to say it was
limited."

This does not mean that such assets as there were did not have reporting
 

|

 

life, we have not overlooked the really out-
standing performance of Mexico City's major
assets and the speed, precision, and perception
with which the data was forwarded. Here it was
relayed within minutes to the White House,
(Department of State] and [the FBI].
Se, the statements of Silvia
“DURAN, and your analyses were major factors in
the quick clarification of the case, blanking
out the really ominous spectre of foreign backing.”

Essentially, Oswald's visit to Mexico City was investigated as
thoroughly as possible, producing no evidence there of Soviet or
Cuban complicity in the assassination of President Kennedy. If anything,
events during Oswald's visit there are more subject to being seen as
counter to such a possibility, given. his troubles with both Cubans
and Soviets. We do not offer this thought as the final word, but more
simply that if it bears on the subject at all it is inconsistent with
speculation that he had some special relationship with either nation.

It is noted that various allegations have been made in the press
in connection with the House Select Committee on Assassinations
inquiry concerning CIA information regarding Oswald's Mexico visit;
these are ‘commented on at Tab G.

IfIl. General Collection Requirements
On 22 November 1963 all CIA stations abroad received a cable

from Headquarters with the following statement:
 

      

-»2 allegations made by "D," about having seen Oswald takiqg money

ceo Cubans in the Cuban embassy in Mexico City, received intensive

   
   
    

ystention from CIA and the FBI, working together closely on the matter,
ind with the Mexican authorities. This was demonstrated conclusively

«sy have been a false allegation. Oswald was in New Orleans at the
tine of the reported incident, and the person making the allegations

wa denonstrated <giiaEHE to have been lying. After the allegations

ty "0" had been demonstrated to be false, Headquarters made the following

eases earns a ee Napanee eet NATE NaS, amare BEA TERY RE TARRY

(statement to the Mexico City Station on 1 December 1963:
"Pls continue to follow all leads and tips.

The question of whether Oswald acted solely

on his own has still not been finally resolved.”

gain, on 13 December 1963 the Mexico City Station was cabled as

“PIse continue watch for Soviet cr Cuban reaction
to investigation of assassination, evidence
of their complicity, signs they putting out

propaganda about case.

 

 

#8" 17 December 1963 Headquarters forwarded a dispatch to the Mexico
Bity Station stated as follows:

",..Mexico City has been the only major
overseas reporter in the case. While this

partly dictated by the facts of Lee Oswald's

6

CONFISENTIAL

 

    
       
 

Pins AUN A tabs at SS 4

   

Be Me yas oe Ak or neve

s

CPO ANON Tes

 

 

: Wert aare rarer
de Aeftenahe pone sMtaasenitthe nee e-bustninbdn ne sean insss ins atc on pass OIE DANI TA LN ahah AO NTR DERE IT TTI a tA i
 

ipl

On 27 November the various addressee stations replied, with

~ _jand London providing additional details on the travel of
Oswald to the USSR. Additionally, London reported that a-British
journalist claimed that during his own imprisonment in Cuba in 1959
there was a U.S. gangster there by the name of Santos, who was living
in luxury tn jail because he could not return to the U.S.; the source
stated that Santos was "visited frequently by another American
gangster named ‘Ruby'." (See pages 24--25, Tab C.)

Also on 27 November Ottawa reported the "delight" of the Cuban
Embassy staff over the assassination of President Kennedy although
the staff was instructed to “cease looking happy in public," in
conformance with instructions from Cuba to "govern their, actions by
official attitude of Govt to which they accredited." on the
same date, reported that the Soviets were shocked, blaming the

assassination on extreme right-wing elements. Otherwise, the initial

_ responses produced no other information.

On 29 November The Hague and Frankfurt were queried about Oswald's
travel back from the USSR. This query was followed on 2 December by
a similar cable to Berlin, Frankfurt, Bonn and The Hague. Various
reporting produced details about the travel of Oswald and his wife
from the USSR through Germany and the Netherlands enroute to the
United States in June 1962.

The other stations involved in these inquiries had no traces or

information on Oswald; liaison services were also queried without

 
 

detailed results although there were some <QamRieE operations that

produced peripheral information about the reactions of various groups

 

under intelligence surveillance. Considerable exchanges were held
with the Warren Commission on Oswald's Soviet record and its possible
significance. No evidence was found tying the Soviet Union to Oswald's
assassination of President Kennedy. Bock V of the SSC Final Report,
in not criticising the Agency's performance in-this aspect of .the
investigation, seems to -have accepted it as adequate, and it will
not be detailed here.

If. Oswald Mexico Visit -- September-Qctober 1963

The visit by Oswald to Mexico City, in his attempt to get
visas for travel to the Soviet Union and Cuba, has received extensive
attention. The details concerning the coverage of Oswald! s visit to
Mexico is treated in another annex to this paper (Tab F). The concern
felt by all initially for the possible significance of Oswald's visit,
and his contacts with the Cuban and Soviet embassies, was obvious at
the time. The following statement is ina cable to Mexico City on
28 November 1963: |
. "We have by no means excluded the possibility
that other as yet unknown persons may have

been involved or even that other powers. may

have played a role. <@@uEEenEee

i
4
;
;
!

 
 

f
4
t
‘

te

“CONFIDENTIAL

CIA's Performance on the Inquiries

Book V of the SSC Final Report challenges the performance of the
intelligence agencies during the Warren Commission inquiry, empha- :
sizing things that it feels should have been done but which it asserts

were not.

It is correct to say that CIA has not produced evidence or
analysis that addresses every theory that has been advanced over the
years. A record of the volume of CIA reporting to the FBI and the
Warren Commission is at Tab E. As a practical consideration, every
theoretical question that can be conceived cannot be answered con-
clusively; there simply may be no evidence at all, or if there is

evidence somewhere it may not be accessible. The issue is what the

intelligence agencies did -- in the present instance, what was the

performance of CIA -- with Book V of the SSC Final Report portraying
a patternof neglect or avoidance that is not supported by the record.
The SSC Final Report offers a number of separate subjects in

support of its case:

a. It refers to an allegation by a person identified as
"D" (pages 28-30, 41-42 and 102-103) that he overheard and
saw Oswald being handed money in Mexico City for the purpose
_ of assassinating President Kennedy; this was proven false, both
by polygraph and by determining that Oswald was in New Orleans
instead of Mexico City at the time the incident was supposed to
have occurred. This subject is treated in a confusing and in-

conclusive manner in the SSC Final Report.

_ «GONE ID DENTIAL
‘04-10065-10086

«4% ears 1
. . .

  

RETURN TO CIA
ckground Use Only
' Do Not Reproduce

 

CIA PERFORMANCE ON THE INQUIRIES
 

:
.
4

}

t

CG 2eNTIAL

b. A considerable portion of the Report is given to the
AMLASH operation. The operation is described inaccurately.
The Report assigns it characteristics that it did not have during
the period preceding the assassination of President Kennedy, in
order to support the SSC view that it should have been reported
to the Warren Commission. This is treated in some detail at Tab D
of this report.

c. Space is devoted to two aircraft flights from Mexico
City to Havana, on 22 November and 27 November (see pages 60-
63).. The first of these flights, as described in the SSC Report,
is based on an inaccurate report about a delay of the 22 November
flight to meet a mysterious private aircraft; the correct story
removes the basis for the inferences of the SSC version. The
second of these flights had to do with a man whose significance
arises from a patently erroneous report; the FBI investigated him
thoroughly, as is apparent from the condensed summary in the SSC

Final Report.

These examples illustrate the problem of commenting on the SSC Final
Report, the question becoming that of how to deal with Congressional
criticism presented on the basis of inaccurate factual perceptions.

To treat the problem it was felt necessary to review the record in-depth

and to report the findings, whatever they are.

Recognizing the possibility of error or oversight in 1964--both

on the part of CIA and the Warren Commission--consideration was given

to courses of action CIA might have taken to throw some light on the

COM IDENTIAN
C Nei.
~ WOU lay bai thee co

questions as understood at the time, as well as considering those

questions that have developed since then. What would be the areas of

 

inquiry? Oswald was an obvious subject of investigation.

. Oswald was known to have been out of the country twice subsequent

, to his return to private life from the Marine Corps in September 1959.
These overseas adventures were appropriate for CIA attention. The
first of these overseas trips was when he went to the Soviet Union in
October 1989 from which he returned in June 1962. The second of these
trips was when he went to Mexico City in late September 1963, from
which he returned in early October 1963.

In addition to these two areas of obvious specific inquiry for CIA,
there is the problem of general foreign intelligence collection that
might in some way produce information on the subject. The SSC Final
Report adds to these considerations operations being conducted by CIA
as part of a general U.S. program against the Castro reqime. These

3 four general areas of inquiry are covered below.
i I. Travel to and from the USSR 1959-1962
, uf 26 November 1963 a cable was sent to Paris, Rome, Madrid,

 

 

‘ Brussels, The Hague, London, and Ottawa
giving biographic information on Lee Harvey Oswald. it noted his
discharge from the Marine Corps in September 1959 and his travel to
the Soviet Union in October 1959, including sketchy details as to his
employment and marriage while in the USSR. The cable requested:

“any scrap information which bears on President's ,

i assassination...."

 
