104-10210-10030 , mm cha attire n-ne

   

A. what would you say to “There is a Sovetsk by the cea (Sovetsx prisorstly}, :

in Leningrad Chlast’?

&. shat? _ ‘

 

4. There is a Sovets« by the sea,

3.0 No.

 

well, vhet are you saving --

This is the Fearth Navy Fleet.
i. Were you ever in the Sovetse in ienincerd Oblast?
«Never.
Ae Are you sure of this?

wt (hast. t

 

&. Ido not renexber a Sovetsk in Le

i.e Do you remember a Prinorsx in Lenincrad Obinst?

Leningrad Oblast?

HO, TO.

 

Toknow, in Leningrad Oblast ... wha vi of pleces?

Fefore the war ... Sestroretsk, Vertys>kino ... this is near Leningrad.
aT

There is a Lisiy hos ...
a. Lysyy or Lisiy?
2. Listy; Lisiy Kos ... a place heavily infested with mosquitoes.

A. Are you sure that you never were in a Covetsk in Leningrad Oblast?

_Be I never vas.

 

A. Ina Primorsk in Leningrad Oblast?

 

B. No, no, no, no.

 

Pe cade TE ley oe cae

 

se
104-10210-10030

 

Very well; we will return to this question in tine.
Cais does not explain what you have been trying tu czplain to me.

where is no Sovets

5
isa
a
c
Ea
°
nf

vO ave talains: accuke

‘Ath the indication that this .s Lovevs<, boinorsniy Xray, Primorszidy Rayon

((cr “Covetsk of a coastal ersy, or a constai raye:' )).

@uere was :o Primorshiy $ayon in feldalsceed (adast, ost faliningred Colast

was net called Primorskiy Kray ((or ’a ovaseal krey')).

 

All of this, of course, forces rs 40 thine that your knowledge is too livtle

for one who has worked ard cerveu there,

T have told you how it was.

The last tine, I told you to thine alout tnis questien; I think you kev:

thousht very well amd row you em tr “¢5 dasf{st upon thie or to find

 

core sort of Justificatio:.

ho; I ax trying only to prove to you tint owas thers.

Laut this does rot

 
 

sour words -- “Zwas, Towns’ --

ae proof, do not say anythi:

You undgerstanl -- I cannot civ

 

well, let us go tack a little.

 

if one is to believe whet you sald st date, the date of your

entry into the organs of the MVD, in Mercn 1953 «206

Yes.

 

reo

 

Every officer knows exactly tre date on wiich he entered, because it is
necessary to know it in many cases; but -- a:though you talk about your
poor mensry -- could you recall the exact date on which you were accepted
for work?

Because this is of great ard important significance for promotion, for rank,
for longevity, etc., etc.; every officer knows this.

I would like for you to recall it; you should know on what date you were

accepted. ; so SECHE

 

taal Ate ta
104-10210-10030

 

Well, let us go Lack.

 

You have tried to correct yourses! ((ty)) sayinn, ‘2

Tet us cay 60 -- it cone te; Lao, abi the care, a tersen in tht fovy -- ard,

ecorcially, in intelit ae -- toy do not

    
 

you seid; they addrees then to tne

zost office nunber)).

Nowe. even... for ... the Par Lact -- “Lovetskays Gavan', Milivery Uris

fuch-snid-such" ... although we vere not in Covetskeva Gevan'.

And, you know why?

I eo not know.

Fecause it taxes the letters a few months to .2t there.

why a few months?

Vell, not a few months, tut a lens tins, Jf one wlll write to tne oilitary
unit, as -- daring We TT -- (geld Pact Citics No. euct-srd-suen .

Bo yeu know how the fury Lisld rectal eyctenm was organized?

T ¢5 not kev.

If you do not know, then it is nut necessary to say “It will teke = fev months"!

“ell, ast a few conths; it will take a long time.
aud in the Far East, they wrote, “City of sovetskaya Gavan", Military Unit

sucn-ani-such".

Ami did they also write which oblast or “ray?

 

a

 

Ro, simply "City of Sovetskaya Gevan'".

There is only one city of Sovetsxaya Gavan'; it 1s a large city. ye ae

Perhaps you ere confused.
Ko, no.

Sovetsk, Primorskiy ... Primorskiy ... in my memory, Sovetsk, Frimorskiy Kray --
although I understand very well that there is no kray there ... well, I... I

gt o '

@o not know.

 

 
104-10210-10030

 

 

 

 

-6- $ bear
« : :
4. Ue cannot coutradict the f.ctn; ft wen not even cestroyed when the Ge.mans
fot out of there.
LE. There is ... I am telling psa... you can lvoe at the cap... to Kaliningred.
You cannot get to Covetck S tural. saliningred ty railway, as.
i You esn go from Ksliningres to cavet«k cx on locel train, because there is
the narrow-gsuzt railway from bovetsh Lo Urlenogredsk -- i. 12 the former
Gerran town of (fivants?); teic ise reewet area ty North Prussia.
A. Ve are talking about Balvize...
i B. There was ro roal to Baltiyse, on the o.2t.
Gnere wes cnly a& highway.
Ae There was, and it is there to tie prerent ufse; Jt vas there vefore the war,
during the war ani after t:
i. Well, IT travelled ... it is & rarrow rlace,
4. Ido not know how you travedied; §f you did not co ky crain, it is
so.ething else.
b no, no.
A. Another question -- that there is a rafilrosi; last time, you told me that
you remember very well thet ... when you arrived in Haliningrad, there was
no railroad ... you got thers iy hitch-hiki:s.
B. There is vo way you can gst to Laltiysx ly railroad.
A. Perhaps you went by car, not by rail; Lut there is a railrosi.
B. You go this way -- Moscow - Aaliningrad.
pew _ A. Railroads go in all directions from Naiiningrai, including to Baltiyss. a ee
.
B. Ko. 7 -

. fee

Well, then it would have been most easy for se to have trensferred at the

stetion to go to Baltiysk.

SEGRET

Feel mere

}
i
4

 
104-10210-10030

 

Es z

((3 August 1965 Session))

E. ((Asks for a cigarette; speaks in a very low voice.)) You know, I want
to say a word about Scvetsx, Proimorskiy “ray.
You know, it is not just ry memory ....
It is another thing -- pechaps I en confused stout the kray, but there is
somthing conr-eted with “Sovetss ty the set (rrimorskty)}" --+ either
Primorskiy Rayon or Sovetsk By the Sea.

Ara why?

  

You know, I was thinking -- “what is ttt”
Semehow I have connected Soveten with Prisorsiiy.

The thing is that yourself exti, “Eers is Savetsk” 2...

There are many Sovetsss ....

  

“Here is Sovetsk.” -- appare-i+, in all protabélity, to differentiate this
Sovetsk from another .. this Jsveteh.

I have in nind the Sovetsk "by the sea (primorskiy)", in order to differentiate
it from another -- this is way, in ny memory, Sovetek i3 something connected
with "primorskiy (by the sea)" ... either “Sovetsk Primorss{y" or "Sovetsk of
Primorskiy Rayon" ... well, Covetsx by the s#s.

Now, another thing -- this Sovetex is a very stall place; it is not even a

city; there was no raykea there ... nothing.

Well, precisely, "Sovetsk by tie sea”, in my memory ..e.
A. Well, if “Sovetsk ty the sea", vhat else?

B. It could be this way ... it could be this way ....
I do not remember, I do not remember.
It could be this ... "Kaliningrad Oblast, City of Sovetsk by the sea” or
TE ee

“of Primorexiy Rayon" eee I do not know,

 

I, how ... well, Sovetsk ty the sea ... it pointed out “Sovetsk -- by the sea”.

     
 

In my memory, it is "Sovetsk, Prinorskly Kray”.

I myself understand: you have reprosched me for ry ignorance -- that Ido
not know geography, althovgh I graduated from an institute .... ‘
I know very well that there is only one Prinorskiy Kray -- in the Far Beat;

there is no Primorskiy Kray here.
104-10210-10030

 

  
  
 

 

 

 

& 3
“4
Why? . -
T have thought about it -- ty Avay'?
It could he that during the war nh One of th: fronts ... “pri
j : ea, {a rayon by the cea) oe Ara {a coastal. krey)" oa.

  

‘prinor'ye (coastal aren)”.

ie a Prfmorsk” anda "Frimor'ye" 2...

 

Qu the map, you yourself cee t:

Yohad not seen the map before this; ctiey did not show it to me 1...

 

rything indicates that thers ig comet: + “prdmorskis” ... Scvetsk.

‘

A. vhat there is ... there is no Sovetsk in “alininered ublest which is luceted
on a spit.

“ik. Well, look, one minute ... not on whe: slit, tefore you go out vn tle srit.

I will tell you even more -- Sovetok 13 Just a littie plece ... Sovetsk ...

at

there is ... @ narrow-geucse railwsy ... cut it does not go onto the szit.
The narrow-gauge railway went to Piltiyss ... Sovetsk... tieve was a check-pelot
(shlagbaus) before the spit ... they checked pasees .., Sovetsk ... before

going out on the epit.

4. Inesmuch as you have raised this qres-ica, I wanted to remind you that rgain

you Were Frong.
B. About what?

A. When you said that there was no railwi.

I intentionslly listened to you ent did not interrust.
B. There is no railway; thers is a narrow-yauge track.
A. I am talking about the railway from Keliningrad to Baltiysk.
B. There is absolutely no railway to Balttysk, and there is no railway or tke spit.

A. The railway was there before the war, during the war, and efter the war; it

was built by the Germans ... the devil kncws when, and it exists to the

 

 

present day.

. AP ae
| ~ atratememaateemmmasaes
iN
q

  
104-10210-10030

 

pecan BIER

5 a

3

 

 

2 Acgust 1965

"

A.

B.

A.

B.

SLANE ION

 

ee» So that we can find a coccon Jan

 

No metter how much we have talked tolsy, it is impossible to believe that

you were there, in the Laltic, etc.

I told you how I was.
¢

i want to understand what {is the catesr; it is fn no way underriandable
to me -- you c&én imagine tnat if a se: were a counterintelligeace officer,
or -- et that time -- an intelligence ofricer, if he wes there, te vould

remember sometaing.

I told you what I did.
What else could I have done if ] 624 not do that?
What else can I tell you?

I did soc do anything elre there.
Perhers it would be better to say, I vas not there’.

I had not been there, I would say, I never was there’.

Why do I need this -- to get confused here?
If “I vas rot there", then, of course, “I" did not do anything there.
I told you what I did.

‘Well, the last question for the day -- cow do you explain that earlier you

said you were there for quite a long tine?

Earlier, you said that you had beez on Rugen {sland and somewhere else. oS

No; 1... just. a minute ... I did not cay it that way.

This ig,a fact; but then, you said that you were not there.

os wees APPROVED FOR RELEASE 19
- GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGIEA

Why, why? mM

ee me eb.

 

 

 

'
t

 
104-10210-10030

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT 'CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
: . -¥
; HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF WEXBERS

of : . Released under the John F. Kennedy Assas mation J
Records Collection Act of 1992

FILE TATLE/KUMEER/VOLUNE : AUR CLL FA V7 (44 USC 2107 Note)

* NW 53216 6/17/17

As a CWE 4,7 Rh by ike te PAO
KEEL a y

INCLUSIVE DATES:

 

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ind

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

 

 

DATE DATE
RECEIVED | RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

al, ett ee ion “4 2s,

 

i

 

NO POCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

" APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA BISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

   
 

2 = a oo AN Te PO LEI IO LRT BIRO OE” TE ORO EE

2 eters

enenteettt that tea Gener
104-10210-10030

 

in
“
wes

   

i. That is not a justifiection,

 

This is not the tele of en intellicgene: office m.

at the leginning that you

 

A man can make a mistaxe; but you car

 

were there aad there end there, ond y ace you about it, rind

some difficulties in answering; and tren yyu say that you do not know why

you said it end that you were not tiere.
E. Agein, {nm this case, they will net telieve ....
(C63; A and B speak at the same tin:.))

The questicn about me was resolved while T wes in Mossow on leave ia June

1052.

Even the question of my study war discursed.

I refused to take tritning.

 

Then the decision was made to send ms to ((tivy intelligence)) pofus. .

when the decision was

 

At that period of time, at that &

vatesk, tre yoint vas

 

made and it was decliied to sind re te that point ino

in Fosteck, ani the idea was to .tnd se t9 Berlin end from there to Rostock.

A. I tnow cbout thet ani the rest.

My question was from this field, Lut vas not posed that way.

k. I did uot get there; why?
*

Because the base ves moved, vas moving ....
A. ((In the beginning)) ... you said that you had been there, but then you said
you had not been there and you said that you did not know why you had said '

you had been there -- "I wes not there”.

B. Because, actually, it happened that I was directed to zo to Rostock; I did 3

not go there; why did I not ¢0 there?

 

wines oe ho mg,

Because the base had been moved, end they did rot imov where it was te nove

from Rostock.

 

A. In life, it goes this way -- if a man was tere ....

}

 
 

B. Ant I said that I would rot eo there -- ‘why should I go fron one city te

another?

fake a Gecision ca where I em to go, eri I will ¢9 there”.

A. ((Signale end of seeting.))

I do rot want you to becous unset.

((Ex3 of 30 Culy lies o

 

 

 
