13-00000

   

above as a close associate of Subject and also of alleged
Soviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASIN, is the Subject

of SSD file #35095. ROGARD is a former U. S. Marine whose
parents were Polish-born and who lived in China for
twenty years prior to returning to the United States in
1950. He allegedly was pro-Soviet, ie: ridiculed White
Russians who did not avail themselves of Soviet citizen-
ship made available to thems hired as Editor of his
Tientsin Evening Journal, following its resumption after
the War, one Leonoff who was an employee of TASS;
followed a Communist inspired line in his newspaper;

and published without comment in his Tientsin Evenin
Journal a letter discrediting American Military Police
Th fTentsin, comparing them unfavorably with Soviet
Military Police in Harbin who were praised in glowing
termss etc. ROCGARD, “if used" by Project PILLAR,

was to be limited to Category II; but_his wife, a>
Ibragimoff ROGARD, #79069, had elearance for a "very \,

sensitive use on another Project¥.
“Mrs. ROGARD apoears to have had clearances for )
(responsible positions wi since
953. Her asscciation wit 6 Agency was _term{nated in
May 1959, with the termination of Project(ABERAy but
she gave a "hard time" for months and refused
to sign her secrecy agreement until 30 November 1959.
Various relatives of hers have in the past been -
associated with (the Agency. Mrs.» ROGARD appears to
_ ; have had much the same history as Subject. She was
SORES . born in Russia of Russian-born parents, of Turko-Tartar
nationality; left Rusgia in 1919 for Harbin; was
sducated in Mukden and Tientsiny and was employed in
Tientsin in various import-export firms, etc. (No
thorough study has been made of the ROGARDS! files. )7

 

 

 

 

 

 

OS:SRS:MDSthie—
 

 

 

 

Consulate. From 197 to 1949 he stated that he was the owner of
the “Anchor Printing Shop" in which the "North China Marine"
continued publigztion in Tsingtao, China. The KAMKINs came to
the United States in 1919 arriving in San Francisco in Marche

As of 1957 KAMKIN was being used on an unclassified basis by
the CIA Idibrary asa publications procurement channel. It is, of
course, possible that Subject's interest in "RODINA" is on behalf
of this Agency ;

The other book stores involved in the report to tho French

“Desk were the woll known Communist "Four Continents Book Store",

(43-2000), "Imported Publications and Products" (MS-2001-I) and
"Universal Distributors Company" (491916). These organizations are
registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. The Four
Continents Book Store is flagrantly Communists needs no defining;
and the "Imported Publications and Products" is reported to be

one of the four principal outlets for Communist politicel prop-

‘aganda in the United States. “Universal Distributors Gompany" is

described as “an official distributor of Communist Party Jiterature"
and as "Commnist controlled". It is the distributing agency for
the Four Continents Book Store.

Information from a reliable confidential informant reflects
that during the summer of 1959 KAMKIN indicated he planned to
open a branch book store in San Francisco to be operated by S.
SAPELKIN. The store was to be called Znanie, Russian Book Store,

“and lecated at 5237 Geary Street, San Francisco. This S. SAPFLKIN,

in all probability, is Mrs. KAMKIN's brother-in-law Semen I.
SAPELKIN, MS-5000, who with his wife Nina, nee DAVIDOVA, aka
DAVIDOF, was the subject of an FBI Record Check Request in May
1955. (The wife Nina, per the check sh-st, resided at Route

1, Van Leer, Tennessee from 1951 to 1952, which was the KAMKIN's
address during this period.)

The 1955 FBI Record Check Request on SAPELKIN indicated that
he was formerly a painter; that his wife Nina was a dentist; that
both were born in Russia; that he arrived in the United States
from France around the end of 195), was stateless and had his first
papers and that she arrived in San Francisco 5 June 1951. They
were residing at 1,05 Harvard Street, NeW., Washington, D. Co.
(which was the address of Subject's book store); and had formerly
resided in Tientsin and Shanghai, China, Hoth their children
were born in Mentsin, ons in igh and one in 199.

An RI check requested in 1957 for USIA indicated that the nare
Semon I. SAPELKIN appeared in a report from a reliable seurce in
May 1950, which dealt with refugees in an IRO camp at Guinan,

Samar, Philippine Islands; and, according to the report, ha had
been a member of the Russian Residents Association (probably Russian

-2«

 
Frod-t0300-10020

 

 

: ian

   

: Office Memorandum + UNITED STATL® GOVERNMENT
0 : Bryog Js goliep c/RB/SRS/0S DATESTT December 1959
FROM: Ke Stave mna5) FB, /SR8/08

  

SUBJECT: XAMKIN, Victor Petrovich
--gI-2752 - SSD-90097

A review of Subject's file has been made in connection with
a request from the Desk, with reference to
{nformation from th thet Subject's Washington
book store, as of the summer © oy, was of the four book stores
MG _, in the United States where subscriptions could be pought for "RODINA's
the bulletin edited by the Repatriation Conmittee of East Berlin.
; a MRODINA®? (LA PATRIE), which is digtributed in various languages
EN and is mailed in géaled envelopes, has been forbidden distribution
: in France. (See attached thermof axe)

Security files reflect thot in April 1957 the FBI advised that
Victor Petrovich KAMKIN, Elena Andreevna KAMKIN and Nina SAPELKIN
had been the aubjects of an Internal. Security ~ R type investigation
as of 1951 and thatr "There is no derogatory data of a subversive
nature in the files of this Bureau concerning the subject of your

. inquiry (KAMKIN). It should be noted, however, that Victor

Petrovich KAMKIN is currently of investigative interest to this
Bureau and, accordingly, it is requested that any contact of him
in behalf, of_the Central. Intel Ligonce_Aseney_be bandied Ww SS

Bureau." //
Le .

Mas. Snare din According to an undated blind memorandum (possibly a Staff ¢
fuso Lived withthe memorandum), Nina SAPELKIN is Elena KAMKIN's sister and as of
BAGS Sennen 1951 was living with the KAMKINs in Tennessos. Nina SAPELKIN was
snes: wes born in Rugsia 18 August 1912; and was evacuated from Shanghai to
., Samar, Philippine Isiands under IRO auspices in April 1SLY 5
accompanied by her husband Semen I. SAPELKIN and their two childrens

ad She same to the United States in 1951 and lived in Tennessee for

a time with the KAMKINse The SAPELKINS reportedly renounced

Soviet citizenship in Shanghai in September or Octeber 1918.

 

 

 

   
 
   

The KAMKINs also were born in Russia and KAMKIN attended
: high school and university in Harbin, Manchuria Thereafter until «
i ighS he was in the printing and publishing business in Chinas and
during 19h6-L7 says he was with "Special Services, Section IT,
Amph., Marine Corps", working on its newspapers ttNorth China
Marine", In 19b7 he was co-publisher of "Free Word* which he says
wae an anti-Soviet newspaper closed by pressure of the Soviet

 
13-00000

    

Enigrants Association) and of the Soviet Club in Shanghaie

An ONE name check on KAMKIN, in November 195], reflected the
cross-referencing of hia nams to "Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong
#02, 22: August 1952", tha subject of which was "Contact of Mrs

‘ Veni. MASILIEVITCH SAPELKIN with the Hong Kong Consulate General";

< while ults of a 1957 "K* check based on this same "Foreign
Service Dispatch, Hong Kong #02, 22 August 1952, Secret",
reads as follows: "Mr. SAPELKIN reported that he had. recently
received various communications from a White Russian friend of his,
Mr. Victor P. KAMKIN who was formerly head of the Russian Emigrants
Association in Taingteao, China, Mr. KAMKIN left China early in
159 and has resided in the United States since that time. Both
SAPELKIN and KAMKIN reportedly had certain contacts with a Eugene
GORDENEV, Russian-speaking officer attached to the G~2 Section of
the First. Marine Division in Tientsin following the Japanese Surrender
in 1945. Mrs KAMKIN has now written to Hong Kong asking Mre
SAPELKIN to supply certain economic information on North China and
Manchuria for the use of the ‘American Government’. Mr. KAMKIN
indicates that he ie involved in certain intelligence activities.™
fin a letter of 13 duly 1950, offering his services to ONI, Subject
named GORDENEV as one who could "substantiate my work in China".
ONT advised CIA that their records contained no derogatory infor-
mation regarding Subject, but that ONI did not contemplate utilis-
ing his services./

mee

eee A Tas Subjects friend "Mr. SAPELKIN" may well be Mr. Veriamin
Kyser HAs Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, the Subject of Hong Kong Dispatch, #402,
bead obtained 5 who in all probability is related to Mrs. KAMKIN's brother-in-law,
tet ages fetwe Semen I, SAPELKIN,
@ inididv as «
i coe According to a 1955 RI check conducted on one Alexander S.
p+] wo DORLOFF for G2, a report of 17 May 1950 advised that ORLOFF (who
7’ Had’ been described as an "Old Soviet worker") was closely associated
—-s with Ventamin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN, an alleged Soviet agent at
the IRO Camp at Samar, P. I, As reported ahove, Mrs. KANKIN's
sister Nina and her husband Semen SAPELKIN were evacuated to Semar,
P. I., from Shanghai under IRO auspices in April 19h9.

Ventamin Vasilievitch SAPELKIN's friend ORLOFF, according to
a report of 8 April 1950, was alleged to have influenced a district
leader of the IRO Camp at Samar with pro-Soviet propaganda, and to
have worked with a number of other pro-Soviet internees in the comp
to Sovietize the Russian refugees interned there. According to a
report dated 5 May 1950, ORIOFF allegedly was believed to be a
Soviet agent. (The report noted that this information originated
in the IRO Camp in Samar; that much information originating there
had proven unreliable; and that the reliability of this particular
information had not been determined.)

 
13-00000

 

     

However this may be, it appears that there could be much truth
in the allegations. Information in Security files reflects that
ORLOFF very posaibly is identical with a "Count ORLOFF of the
Russian Committee", (apparently a committees of Th6),"Who assisted
tha Commercial Counselor for the Bulgarian Legation in securing
IRO employment for one Bogdana OTTAI, a possible Soviet agent in
Paria who was living with and was engaged to marry Kiril VASSIIEV,
who was believed to be an agent of the Bulgarian Military Intelligence
Service. "Count ORLOFF" also helped arrange OTTAI's entrance into
the United States. Alexander S. ORLOFF and "Count ORLOFF" may well
be identical with Alexander ORLOFF, DI-2881, a highly suspect
individual of Russian birth, and a former AMTORG employee who was
security disapproved by 0SS in 1943. This latter individual, per
a 19)3 OSS investigation, was known as "The Count",

A December 195), Staff C memorandum regarding KAMKIN, reported
thet uneyaluated information dated 1 June 1948 indicated that one
Victor N./KAMKIN was involved in a money printing transaction with
the Jap: @; in which he ueed the machinery of the Chihli Press
in Tientsin to facilitate the counterfitting. The source of this
information had pointed out the possibility that Victor N. KAMKIN
might be identified in some way with a V. P. KAMKIN who was nemed .
as a character reference by one Vladimir Vasily IVASHKOFF. (IVASHKOFF
was not identified.) The memorandum advised that according to a
report dated 1 June 1946 from a U. S. Naval Attache, Nanking, to
the American Ambassador, Nanking, V. N. KAMKIN was a printer and
publisher in Shanghai and later was in charge of the Russian
Publishing Houge/Known as Nashe ZNANIE. He wae closely associated
with Bernard S./ROGARD of the Chihli Press, who in turn was
associated with |slleged Soviet espionage agent Olga NAKVASIN.

According to the Staff CG memorandum , 4 report from the FBI
dated 1) August 1953 indicated that a scurce of unknown reliability
atated that one Victor KAMKIN, who operated a book store as a
possible cover in Tientsin, China, acted as a paid informer of
the Japanese during World War TI; and was a paid informer of Us Se
Aruy Intelligence after the War. With the assistance of the
American Military Government in Tsingtao, China, he became Chairman
of the Russian Immigrant Society in Tsingtao in 1948. There seems
small doubt that this Victor KAMKIN is identical with Victor Ne
KAMKIN, and with Subject, Victor P. KAMKIN who was formerly head
of the Russian Immigrant Association in Tsingtao, China, accord-
ing to his friend SAPELKIN, as reported in Hong Kong Dispatch
#02. Note that Victor N. KAMRIN was in charge of a Russian
Publishing House in China knewn as Nashe Znanie; and that the
branch store Subject intended to open in San Francisco (and may
have opened) was aleo to be called Znanis (this work in Russian
means "Knowledge").»

[Bernard 3. ROGARD of the Chihli Press, referred to

-h-
