13-00000

 

5. Subject advised that during her voting experience
she had made it a point to vote for the man and not the
party. Elaborating, Subject stated that she liked
Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that
she advised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that
she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba whereupon
Sherwood said "too bad he was selling us doim the river".
Sherwood did not eleborate on the Latter statement accord-
ing to the Subject. Subject stated that the telephone
converration lasted about one bfelf howr end upon discon-
tinuance of + sation she (Subject) advised her
husband, havc that her husband is in
sensitive vor! e Air Foree end immediately advised
Subjeet to report the telenha: onversation to proper
officials of the sgency.| pated that she could not
give further clues concerning the identity of the "ex~-CIA
Gourier" or the location in West Virginia where Sherwood
associated with the "ex-CIA Courier".

6, I requested the Subject to keep me advised of any
additional calls, information cr contact with Sherwood.

7. % recommend that the attached information be
passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

 

 

rN
104-10300-10096

 

TO

FROM -

SUBJECT:

  

. UNI ED STATES GOVERNMENT

{ 3080-108

 

aoe

Chief, Personnel Security Division DATE: 1 June 196%.

Special Assistant, Chief/PSD

 

 

 

 

1. In compliance with your request, the Subject wes
interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information
she reported +o He Yoko Re PherSoSecuri te Officer/
DDS&?, which is indicated as Tab A.

2. Upvon interview, the Subject repeated substantially
the some inforzation that is reported in Mr. Pherson's
memorendum, Additional information indicates that Subject
Gefinitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince
George County Maryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.
ltrs. Sherwood's name appeared as 33-E on the ballot.

‘3. During the telephone conversation Subject stated
that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Sherwood
resides in the Cxon Hill, Marylend area L due to the fact she

entioned tat some road construction “ES being done vhich-hos
booneéone in the Cxon Hill erea recently.

   

4, Subject stated that she did not desire to place
pressure on Mrs, Sherwood for further information concerning
the mre end whereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier” who told Mrs.
Sherwood thst Fresident Kennedy would be assassinated and the
Frecicent's essassin would also be assassinated. Subject ad-
viced that Cherwood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in
Yest Virginie (city or town. not given) where there was a
cafeteria. Sherwood advised the Subject that the food did
not agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took
him into town for meals. Sherwood further indicated that the
"Courier" told her that he “hed too much knowledce"” indicating
t the latter vas the reason he left the Agency. Sherwocd
iat the “ox-Courier" told her a lot of things relative
ofie in high pleces in the Government which was quite
shoving and the inforration worried her (Sherwood) very much.

  
   

Document Number 1279 -4¢ 6 A

for FOIA Review on FEB 177 ue 7

  
