“CLARSIIGA OM Torgenros re)

 

4 (4 SECRET | _UFGA=4703

and AMFAUNA-1 hid him-in Havana until he was able to get asylum for

qin sta in(the Ecuadorian Embassy}

wal 38, This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart C.
: (dis e@ following people participating in this phese were separated from
“the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity 19 (subseg': ntly es ‘aped ind took asyium
in the @rgentina Embassy) 0

 

(2) Identity 20 (subsequently escaped and took aayium
in the @rgentine Embassy) 56

(2) Identity 4#¢ (interrogateo by G-t, out the duration
of her detention is net known),

(4) Identity 52.
b. By asylum:
(1) Identity 72

(2) Identity 37.

{
|
Previous History of the Operation - December i361 to A ril 1962:
; 39. During the periodgfrom December 1961 to April 1962, AMFAUNA~1
|

i lcontinued to use ANFAUNA-2)as a cutout to AMCOG-2. The latter wag 24
Li jjgiven a lead in March 1962 from Identity-13, one of her Con.
ii—t-tacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, AMEAUNA-hol She turne
F5) this lead over to AMFAUNA-1, and the latter held his first meeting
“with AM AUNA-8) in AMFAUNA-2's automobile. .
io ol ol Lae
. “40. aMfauna-%) 04s also used as alternate cutout to Identity-1ll,
a woman with contacts(in the Cuban NavyOGtheother alternate gut-
md cout was AMFAUNA-8. Identity-1ll was arrested({in February 1969 Accord-
ng to AMFAUNA-1'2 account of the incident invhis_message No. 83 of
95 February 1962, Identity-11 had been meating®
AMFAUNA-1 had warned her not to trust the man, but
‘i she met him again ‘on the following day and was caught with him.
<; AMFAUNA~1 commented that some of his other agents were not compartmente
“4 from her, and he had ordered them to go into hiding. He gid net
( identify these other agents. Presumably they included AMFAUNA~2 and
AMPAUNA~8. 5 ol

al

 

 

 

 

 

 

2} cutout. to Identit ~1206 the (Havana representativeJof the insurgent

 
  

ui. AMFAUNA-3 was he (iavane during’ this period and used as a
Hi

Aewording to an official announcement by -the H
Cuban Government, action on (6 April, 1962. Other
sources have contradicted this repor and the matter still remains in
some doubt. However, according to information obtained by AMFAUNA-1,
Identity-12 was arrested in his home in Havana in late April. Fora

 
    

further discussion of the possible security implications of this
connection, see paragraph 59 below, -

pene ee rr NR 2 APTA ONES PS EY RENE Tt LU MARA RN TERI, LEE OS OS ETT MEIER SSE DEAE APNE feovoETEMNOS ESRTE A «NS REE

42, Identity-51, who during the period gune te November 1961, had
been serving as a link toi. now established a
contact with Identity-54, 4 resident of ( Jwho claimed to be a
disillusioned counter-revolutionary. Ags a'¥cutout to Identity-$4, she
used Identity-53: As far as the recor a, snow, no results were ever

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIA AE ERED,

 

: C643. Identity-14 defected during this period, as did Identity-57,
= whom AMFAUNA-1 had recruited and was

wen AA Gant AS

 
 

 

 

  
 
  

2.

CONTINUATION OF cussarnienT oH
BIsPATCH SECRET

 

   

UFGA=4703 .

   

 

pera FAUNA-1 seems to have an excellent network
wit

It is supposet that AMBOA-1 is handling the two( new pilots)

i AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both «mployees t(

graph 1Se above,

firet made their appearance durin; this period, and AMPAN-12
] and continues to use his own S/W vommunications to JMWAVE)
found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are known to
AMFAUNA-5, and it is. believed that sh» is nrobebly the cutout to them.

8S, Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned briefly as active
during the peried from December 1961 to Ap:i1 1962. The former had
been a contact of AMRUNG- })pl and seams to have gone into hiding; in any
case, nothing mere_has been reported on him, The latter was an agent
of AMPAUNA-1 in woth January 1962 he was in niding and
awaiting a chance to go into asylum.

46. AMFAUNA-11 remained active durin, this period, anc AMFAUNA-9,
10, and 12 ware added to the operation. Fer descriptione of these
agents, see paragraph 15 above.

47. This phase of ‘the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in. Chart
D. The following people participating in this phase were separated
from the operation by known causes: :

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-1l ,

(2) Identity-12.
b. By asylum or defection:

(1) Identity-14

(2) Tdentity-55

(3) Identity-56_

(4) Identity-57.
Production: : ;

4g. JMWAVE records do not-.show the tocal number of AMFAUNA
reports disseminated since January 1561. The figure is at least fifty,
and is believed to be nearer one hunired, if the present frequency. of
dissemination can be a criterion. I: content they have leaned :
heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, militia movemants,
location of artillery, and aviation matters. There has been a more
recent tendency toward political and economic information, which is
being encouraged by JMWAVE. Evaluations of his production are lacking.

. Security Analysis:

49, The possibility that AMFAUNA-1 is a double agent is consider-
ed remote. His successful LCFLUTTER, the fact (or what is believed to
be the fact) that his close friend and fellow agent cusP-i) was
executed, and AMFAUNA-l's owi character and background, alljargue
against the proposition that he was originally dispatched by the G-2.
However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER carilbe beaten.; Also
that there is no proof, other. than the fact that AMCU fa ee is
in the JMWAVE area and behaving like a widow, that ANCUSP-1)jwas really
executed. There is documentary evidence plin the formolof a letter
written by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-1's) widow, that he was held
in prison in March and April 1961. However, the person who identified
and<buried the body was AMFAUNA-l's father, who was subs qauentoy >

ake

n Cuban @viation but how it works remains a matter foncgonjecture.
Fe) .

se

cen ace” SR See wt ee eater gen A one one

    
  

STIONS,

  

trod pema

GARD REPRODU

:
Ps

 
14-00000 - :

CT
“ UF@A-4703 sO

32. In the period beginning June 1961, AMFAUNA@1 first began

king regular uge of AMFAUNA-2)ol He needed contact with his

fen angauna- lop were in asylum in various Western, embassies, and
°

 
   
   

   

"= SONTINUATION CF
et CASPATEH

   

 
 
  

   
    
   

with AMFAUNA-Slopenly visiting her husband) AMCUTLER-DGhe)gvas a
° ppatural choice

   

; or the job.0OwWith the departure of Identities 29
‘430, AMFAUNA-1 began using AMFAUNA-2 as cutout to_AMCOG-2 who was
geful to him for her ability to obtaivlthe hel» of({ siz

    
   

 

 

antity= and then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 tlso sarved as cutout to
antity-"§ about whom nothing more is known than his names ¢ t

 
  
  

   

~

 

34, AMFAUNA~] developed another contagt te during
this period ingthe person of Identity-52, a oS
and alformer lieutenant \in the Rebel Army. dentity-52 met AMFAUNA-1
and Idéntity-21 on 27 October 1961, and then remained in touch through
Identity-51. A few weeks later Identity-52 was arrested.

 

38. At some time during the period June to. November 1961, AMFAUNA~}
began collaborating with AMBOA-1. The origin of this collaboration is ~
not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1.
AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has
a channel of S/W communication, to KUBARK, and that she had claimed to
be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-1)?l AMFAUNA-1 asked JMWAVE to
confirm her bona fides, and this was done. AMBOA-Lethen began working

ppc7BSyAMFAUNA~1's cutout to Identity-14, a(Cubana Airlines pilot} who in &
: gun was receiving information from Ideimtity 40, an employee Of Cubana}
some time prior to November 1961, Identity-"0 wae fired from her job
nd held for interrogation by the G-2. ©

a

    

36. During the same period AMFAUNA-L added the following new

a. AMPAUNA-23 (for deserijtion see paragraph lSe$ above).

b. AMFAUNA~5 (for description sep paragraph ide above).
Co Identity-41, a person who allegedly was collaborating
with several other clandestine g:oups. He had two sub-agents
in thef Ministry of Public vorks}g identities 42 and 43. No
production has been attributable to these people. %
Qo

 

Pes
a. Identity-46, a4

who allegedly was able to” obtain ( } between( u
) Nothing ever camelof this contact. :

 

 

 

 

e. Identity-47,
AMFAUNA-I obtained some order of battle
information from-her, apparently on an unwitting basis.
August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she
was a strong Communist and had given him information which he

 

 

 

 

 

considered of doubtful reliability. 3 ;
f. Identity-48, a foreman(_ _|who provided
some order of battle information.
A g. Identity-49,( ‘jo

 

d . : :
Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA~1] never mentioned
‘+ “him again.
 
     
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
    
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

es ee ee

HEPATCH BIOL AKO NUMER

 

CLARIFICATION

 
  
   

  

SECRET UFGA=4703

 

+time, aa did ANRUNG-1) a] {
c)

ios 25.9[ To support the activities of AMFAUNA-1, ANCUTLER-1,, and
-=aicusP-2) it was agreed that JMWAVE would deposit 815000 monthly into
thé loqal bank account of AMCUSP-1) and the latter would provide the

i
~gquivalent in Cuban pesos from hi@lown resources inaide Cuba.

 
   
  
  
  
  

o : :

26, an€usp-) and agureh-d continued to buey themselves with
if pteparations for eupporting the April invasion. They contacted « &

entity-2r who, at their request, provided cover ag (travelling drug
saleamen\for Identity-19 and also for Identity-20 who was intended to
be a radio operator for Identity-23. -Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all
éhese people, he was compartmented from these)operationa to some
tent, so that after the arrest of aMcusP-1) and the escape of
SJ CUTLER-D he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them,

    
  

     
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  

 

      
 
  
   
  
 

ol
27, AMCUTLER-) and AMFAUNA~1, working together, held maetings

 

 

ith Identity-33, a Cuban Army ofSicer stacioned at the delO
a ase, and discussed foe ns for supporting the invasion. G
“TAMIPFAUNA-l" also contacted Tdentity-35, the

 

 

 

 

base) and arranged for ‘its surrender, using Identity=-3%,°~
aad of the ras a cutout. He had another agent
i the base, Identity 36, and had alread recruited AMFAUNA#11, an
Emp loyee of thell an
. o

26. Gs 18 wareti962) AMCUSP™1)and AMRUNG-2) were arrested by the
G-2 While WNolding a clandestine meeting. At first this was not
regarded as too serious a matter. The G-2 had broken into the meeting
only after having been alerted by the suspicious behavior of a woman 9a
lookout, and it was believed that they had no real evidence. AMCUTLER-})
ame to the JMWAVE area on (6 April 196}) and ret, reds lgain to Cuba on
€o April'still optimistic that AMCUSP-1)and AMRUNG- 1 would either be

 

 

 

réleased or could be helped to escape.° However, one, £ the other of
prisoners appa entlyfconfessed and implicated AMCUSP~1) and AMRUNG-1} who
were executed jon 20 April) —

ith the wave of arrests accompanying the
April 17 invasion, AMCUTL R-ij} took asylum in the Embassy and
AMPAUNA-1 went temporarilPlinto hiding. i
“yj! 29. On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending
-rfdentities 24, 25, 26 and 27°to collect order of battle information
nh Matanzas. Identities 26 and 27 returned ts Havana to report.
‘dentity-25 remained in Matanzas, and [dentity-24 was caught by the G-2.
{
t

   

a nie Se

30. In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMFAUNA-1 that some kind of
conspiratorial activity was going on in the heme of AMCOG-2, He
arranged to meet her through Identit.-30 whom he thereafter used asa

cutout to her. .

DUCTIO!

31. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart B.

he following people participating in this phase were separated from the
@peration by known causes: :

a fem

a, By arrest and execution:

QQ) asfeuse-25 at.
(2) AMRUNG-3 of

AbbuNWAE CAD _NEPHOS

b. By arrest and detention:
(1) Identity-24
(2) Identity-28
c. By asylum or escape to the U.S.:

(1) AMCUTLER-1) 94
(2) Identity-23

 
14-00000

    

   

    
 

T catenton GAOL AND NUMEER -
UFGA$4703

CLARBIFICATION

SECRET!

 
  
  
   

CONTINUATION OF
- GPATCH

(2) AMPAR 12: former Ghior engineer of the 06
Office of Kirporte) he was recruited by Havana
Station in 1960, and has been corresponding with
JMWAVE by S/W.

   
   

   

       
     
    

(3) AMFAUNA-21: alchier inspector of mechanics?
for Cubéna Airline He has stated hia willingness
to @abotage air traffic), Dept hia precise contribution
to AMFAUNA-1's operations is not known,

     
      
 

(4) AMPAUNA#=221 A chief GF electr-cal inatrumente of
‘ for Cubana “AirTines Nothing more ia known about thia
“jo man.

wa

 
     
 

Brother-in-lau of (orrauna-s>

   

(8) AMPAUNA}7

   
 

f. AMFAUNA-6: A support agent. AMPAUNA-1 has written
that she h@€s no access to information of interest, but ia an
intelligent and brave female whom he uses for cever and to
secure overt information.

    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
  
    
  
  

g- AMFAUNA-7: An ‘old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his |
brether AMUTLER- Tyo He works closely with AMFAUNA-8 and@ \
formerly was AMFAUNA~l's cutout tol

 

 

h.. AMFAUNA-8:° An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and nie 06
brother AMCUTLER-T Jol He has a contact in the Cnterior Miniatry)
and works Closely with AMFAUNA-7. 5

0

ag RG 9s HPA a nes EE RR SE LS BE ER MEARS GS TED OE AT SO

 

 

 

i. AMFAUNA~9: A former(L Jfor_al. »)
he secures information of general interest From({
travelling throughout Cuba. , oO

j. AMFAUNA-10:10 A widow of a bank, employee, she has 24

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contacts in and in the
She is also | and has provided
information “on whereabouts and indoct? nation.
2
k. AMFAUNA-11: An employee of the([ ; r
‘ , and the wife of a Communist member of the | be
| ) she has reported poli intelligence.

 

 

In March 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported that sha was under” surveillance
and that he was therefore avoiding her.

1. AMPAUNA-12; He obtains information from contacts
within the | jo

 

 

m. AMFAUNA~13: an(l company employee with
contacts in the Cuban Government, he has reported information
° on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

_Back round and Motivation: &
: . Ea)

16 AMFAUNA-1 is a Go-year-old)euban male, born in Cuba of
arents. He has tried his hand at various kinds of work y &

ac luding the Gmport business, journalism (he was once editor of

rario de la Marina) and insurance) He has also ventur 5s into politics,
waving Been a candidate {of the Autentico Party in 1958) During the
panish Civil War he was a member of the frand during

World War IT, until the entry of =) United States, he was a X
ho

12 5 EE ROT 80 ARI TPT RTS COI EI SA DUE REE A th HE Te AURA PR ACID PGT ONS, SENET

 

 

 

 

The JMWAVE case officer w é

trained AMFAUNA~1 in tradecraft in“March 1961 (see UFGA-124%7 of 10 f

pril 1961) observed that he already had a grounding in clandestine $

2chniques. The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-1 as "a .

pS ‘easant, intelligent fellow" and "the~most astute member of the team" : Oe

comprising himself, aCe} and AMCUTLER-1. ol ' o
A ; :

 

 
14-00000

yp . “, a ; , @

emer pret — . . - eee oi

CONTINUATION OF UPGAe§ 70
ESPATCH : :

To
3

    

   

 

oO .
children, all atill in Cubaf{as of ugcon 1961) However, it ia noted
that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them
is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different
addresses. It is ascumed that this is hie third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1
has never mentioned her in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also
assumad that she has gone the way of her two predecassors.

ry meres t

t [s)
| ‘ol 18. AMCUTLER-1} who was questioned on this point, said that his
| brother is lrving in with his present wife, that he has been
‘“ipcrmarnied only once beféFé]-aid Has only one child from the first marriage 4
Mis information is not considered definitive, because the last point
( ih directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-l's PRQ Part I which he wrote him-
if, but it is included here for what it aay be worth. (CUTLER=1)9/
“added that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents
except what ie considered nermal and acceptable by Cuban standards.
sif 19. The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an
adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although "anti-
ommunism" may be an overworked expression, it would. seem ply in
@ case of AMFAUNA-l, aif his former membership ee fend the
a an be taken as indicators. so included
should be the loss of a(freight forwarding business)which started out
omisingly in 1959 but folded up after a yeaM¥of CASTRO's revolution-
y government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist
“ih January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 is certainly affected
nw by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment

OR Ef of va é
Veo Control ’

 

 

20, %It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives
great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime.
His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work.
This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have heen
many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 te do
something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is
believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation ~ January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA~1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against
the CASTRO regime as early as(December 196304 As with so much else in
4 __|this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already
7 naa an understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty
cihtvbars 6 In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-
ae) an MAR coordinator from Matanzas} who had been introduced to,.
im dentity-29 by one of the members of her group, Tdentity-28, ¢Identity-
ai.in turn brought in Identity-26,(@ fellow MAR coordinator .)p
vi Ard

  

jAvvogether with ANCUSP-}) and AHMCUTLER-1)and looked up their old friend
AMJAG-4, who at that time was “heavily” engaged in work with the
,yesistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer
who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many
resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through
AMRUNG~ 2 who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field.
Also imlthe JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23
om they met and with whom they were later to work. |

: | 22. In January1961, AMFAUNA-Wlcame legally to the United States

ol : ol .
0% 23, AMEAUNA-1, an€urL$r-2) and areuse) returned toCuba in ;
nuary 196]\C They dispatched Tdentity=16 (| Identity-
JP Identity-16 Jyand Tdentity-37 to

 

 

    

 

 

--and AH UTLER; 1) went to Cienfuégos with Identity-19 to make contacts
“with insurgén vee

SO NA RRR GD oA ND SEES TPT I
  
 
       
 
     
     
     
       
   
     
     
      
 
     
   
 
       
 
   
 
        
   
 

  

7

: skillful “in tha practice of security. He has built a false identity

: takes pains to check on the security. of his sub-agents, and he uses

| - ROJO\eo Such an axten¢ that he has. in effect a double identity. In

|. legally, and all hig f

' KUBARK, hoping to collaborate.with him; AMFAUNA-1 treated them both

‘had sad previous experiences with members of CASTRO's armed forces."

i unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4,

| _ believed that he shares his favors between them. “If so, he has the-
| different bed edch night. This practice must certainly reduce the - |

. A
Communications:

  
 
 
  
 

cy

“GoNTUATION OF
GiSPATCH  -

 
  

UFGA=4703 *

SECRET |

  

which he use@ wherever posaible in his operational centacts, he is
usually selactive and cautious in his choice of collaborators, he

a@ syetem of cutouts for much of his work.

6. Some of AHFAUNA=1's older collaborators know him by true name, |

but wher Ver, pageible he introduces himself to new contacts by the

name of ("Jul: OJOM\o Evidently he is now living the part-of (Julio 27

  
   

one Of his S/W measagés he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-] be warned .
not to reveal that (“Ju onde in Cuba. Since AMFAUNA-1 is in Cuba .
Yiland friends know it, this can only mean
that AMFAUNA-1 and ("Julio ROJO" )areo7
“peta 241930 pseudon bd bu, Shh, of Fo)

/ Fe In: recruiting sub-agents, AMFAUNS=1 relies primarily on his
own judgment and intuition. If he approves of a person, he will
recruit him. “However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in
granting his approval. He has reported two persons whom he does not.
completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink.
too much and ave indiscreet. For two other examples, AMBOA=-1 and
LITAU-& approached him separately and revealed their relationship with

‘that she should not reve
identical. *

with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAVE. He has submitted. 7t | i
the names of other contacts for checking. In the case of AMFAUNA=4, (6 5
whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit
it, he put his misgivings in writing: "Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged
for a personal interview, taking utmost precautions, since we have

 
  
  
    
    
     
  

  
  
       
 
 
  

8. Once he has recruited a sub-agent, AMFAUNA=1 manages to keep fo
an independent eye on the former's security. On more than one occasion
“he has reported that one of hie sub-agents is under G-2 surveillance,

and that for the time being he is staying away from him. .

“9, In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his
security precautions. On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity
1 had been caught, but that he was in no danger because he had been
compartmented from her.°'Thisyc atmentati ig achieved by the use ~
of fi e cutouts: "AME RUNAO 2 ANPRUNAC ANFAGNANE AMBOA=1, and
A=-5, who maintain contact for AMFAUNA-1 with most if not all of
his subeagents. Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in. direct contact with
AMFAUNAS 7 through 13, may be in error on this point. It would be
more in keeping with AMFAUNA-1's known modus operandi for him to have
cutouts between himself and these sub-agents, ‘If there is a cutout or
cutouts here, their identity is not yet known. There may also be ap

ictal ts BE ist le a ae

 

   
      
      
    
        
        
       
   
      
    
 
   
   
 
     
 
     
     

10. Except for AMFAUNAS , all the above-mentioned cutouts are }
women. Two of his support agents, including his mail drop, are also vl
‘women. AMFAUNA-1 has’ not been explicit on this point, but it is ae pw
best. of cover for his relations with them. It also clarifies the :
otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping in a

possibility that the €-2 will pick him up for routine questioning.

 

 

‘11. The bulk Of AMFAUNA-1's communications come via S/W. His
méssages to JMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by
AMPAN=2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's,messages to him are addressed to

 

 

 

AMFAUNA-14, AMFAUNA-1 can also use for sending
documents and other material unsui personal
contact with two of the officers ho either
bring it to the JMWAVE area and ‘mail it to AMCUTIER-1, Or ‘carry it
whamen me 2 ee bee ee a ee ae a re en, i. a ee ee

 

 

 

5-2
CTC

 

   

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
       
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
    

Lt att f
Action wensieds

Lode Traces on AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, ident
POAs ‘on AMFAUNAS 2, 2 4%, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.
: neon
2. Ascertain uhether AMFAUNA=3 is of operational interest to
ODIBEX (see paragraph 15b).

 

New.

3. - Forward evaluations of documentary intelligence provided by.
' AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56). . -

—

Summary . : -) fe,
oe 4. AMFAUNA-2 is a Cuban national who was recruited and trained in

 

   

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
   
 

motivated for his work: and under effective control by JMWAVE. The
quality of his production is, for-the most part, very good and improvi
although*he is at times distracted by an understandable interest in *
think that he is under hostile control nor that the operation is likely’
in the future to be turned against us. There S »- however, the real.
risk that he may one day fa}l into a G-2 trap baited with the Escambray
_ directed * o intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that
e has led in his primary mission. This, plus the fact that he a
“Sivident believes that the end is now very close, is apt to make him. .

the United States and returned legally to Cuba
) Since then he has bu a née i
and has*sent back 140 S/W messages, from which upwards ©) .
prFey intel :
para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however, .
guerrillas. If so, this Will be due to the fact that contact with the
f
‘| ine eA to an appeal from the “heroes of the Esc f
“gvulner. PP _" ie ry -
Wie

   
  
  
  

int@lligence disseminations have been made. He is highly
sf
he has been known to. take unnecessary risks. There is no reason to
guerrillag was his first assignment and, although he has been re-
SO :
Present Status of the Operation.- Modus Operandi:

 

-$. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinarily

: ttachments: A-D, Inc1 N> .
. . Charts A,B,C,D iy ae “Fi : cs COPY

94 Attch. E + Identities: BECAME BUNAG 2072). -
| “eattch. F - Identities, om

 
  
      
  

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND RUMBER

    

            
       
   

 
 
  

fe

 

 

UFGA=4703

ar
FG b - Sof3
201- 291980 :

 
 

BEAM et eS AE

4340
14-00000

 
   
    
         
     
     
       
     
 

_ GIGPAIGR

‘second va AMFAUNA®28 5 °

 

12, The courier syetem can aleo work in the other direction.

’ AMPAUNAe] has.boon supplied with S/W materials for his own use b way [.
of the or the usa of AMRIPE=-1 and AHRAVELSL by |
way of 2 i

ft H
13. hird communication: bhannod” existe in the wook1y tolophene

: conversation (betweon) AMCU UTLER-1Yand his “seats is psoful- |
- for a eignals already prearranged by d for confirming that
AMFAUNA-1 is still at liberty. If he is ever arrested, the news will |
probably come firat by this meandgs

Finances: “ a

 

 

 
     
 
 
      
    
       
   
 
     
       
     
     
     
 
     
 
   
   
 
      
       
       
       
      
 
   
         
   
   
     
   
     
    

18, Expenses of the joperation are §330 per month. The money is j-
given sonthly to Identity=3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area. Identity-}
3, upen receipt of the dollars, notifies identity-1 in Havana who in
_ turn pays Cuban peses to AMFAUNA-1. Identity-4 follows the eame pro-
cedure with Identity-2. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money
by S/W. : .

  

woe

  

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA
net, including AMCOG-2 and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own
_ independent connections to JHWAVE, have to soma extent joined forces.
with AMFAUNA-1. For the identities of AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, see
A Attachment E, forwarded under separate cover,

  

ae ANGAUNA-2) AMFAUNAe1's sister-in-law, she formesly
served as his contact to members of his net(in asylum in theo
various embassies) and now serves as his cutout to at least
the following:

(1) AMCOG-2: . She first appears in“ AMFAUNA-1's
correspondance in hie S/W message No. 14 dated
19 May » where he mentions that she was his
link to a radio station operated by the(— p27
organization. Nothing ever came of this proposed
communications channel, but AMCOG-2 remained in
contact with AMFAUNA-1, helping him arrange asylum
for burned agents and pasei some of his communica- &
tions 4 AMFAUNA=1 reported 4 :
on 9 July 1961, in his S/W message No. 21, that
AHCOG-2 knew him only by his alias Gulio ROJO)O7In
his message No. 118, dated June 1962, he reported
that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true
name to AMCOG-2. For a further discussion of AMCOG-2,
and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-1 see
paragraph 56 below.

ol oo ol
(2) avfeauinni> ‘She is the secretary of @NCOG-2))
: with whom she 6 done clandestine work. She now
~ serves AMFAUNA-1 as an accommodation address: and as
a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18 -
April.1962 included the name of a Communist nurse |
who has allegedly come to the United States with
the mission of infij trating a counter-revolutionary
group. AUNA-14) Obtained. this information from a
o is AMFAUNA-1's
ZU ol

(3) AMFAUNA-15: She is a relative of AMPAUNA-1") :

and. a Friend, of AMCOG-2,:- She is-algo the wife of 4 Coe
og fil AUNA-17) &hd a friend of AMFAUNA-16 who is now ba,
a O° imprisoned on the Isle of Pines) and sends her . ‘ Pao. Los

 

 

7.

 

 

 
24

  

 

 

Damion OreaaA Alo Rua

UFGA-4703 ~~

 

NTNVATION OF
GISPATCH .

b. AMFAUNAs3: AMFAUNA-1's first mention of her
is in hic S/W massage No, 127 dated 4 May 1962. She has

provided information on (mili astand has a
trusted contact (Identity 7) aSh

@ also was.
AMFAUNA~1's Ref to Identity-17, whe was a( pe ,

 

of the 24in
early June 1962 ehe was approached by. y-8 who |
claimed to be the new contact to the organization,
(See also paragraph 58 below.) On 15%March 1962 AMFAUNA-3
was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their
Operation CASINO. A negative trace reply was given at that

time. Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX
has a valid prior claim on this agent.
°

 

 

Ge AMFAUNA-4) He is a high-ranking Cuban Army officer
who has provided AMFAUNA-1 with documzntary information which
ought to be of some value, although JMWAVE has not yet seen
it, it having gone to Headquarters via (ol through the <
channel described in paragraph 11 abovel3"¢He“alsao claims to
be receiving information from Identity-9 and Identity-10.

_AMFAUNA-1 was introduced to AMFAUNA-4) by AMCOG-2 who in turn

was introduced te him by Identity-13.0l For a further
discussion of this matter, see paragraph 56 below.

: ad. AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-l's contact with

this agent, who has also been recruited independently by
JMWAVE, is uncertain. He first mentioned her in October &
1961 as his cutout to Identity-14,

who had formerly been a contact of ‘AMCUSP-I and who subsequent-
ly defected. AMFAUNA-1's last mention of her was on 15 .
November when he reported that she had given him a map show-
ing artillery installations on the south coast of Las Villas.
It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her,

 

 

but since he has not reported having done so it is considered Wa
_more likely that she remains his cutout to
who are known to be still reporting?

 

 

 

(1) AMFAUNA-18: He was recruited in March 1962,

 

 

 

 

and has provided AMFAUNA-1 with 24
and the|) whic

he has tis tof tknown
how AMFA' ~1 First met AMFAUNA=18, and it is

possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him.
It is only surmised that AMBOA-l, is his cutout to
him.

£2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruitec at the same
time aS AMFAUNA-18. Althcugh AMFAUNA-1 did not
explicitly say so, it can be inferred that he and
AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

e. AMFAUNA-5: AMFAUNA-1 first reported her as an agent
in September I91.é She is the sister-in-law of AM AUNA-23 4
former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-1 as °
early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for try-

ing to leave Cuba illegally.zUsne has been the source of .
information on Cuban and is the tout to a. group
of people. employed at 241t is believed

 

-that the identities of all these people have not yet been

reported, but they seem to be effective. On 29 May 19621
AMFAUNA~1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet ‘plane
| and forwarded the passenger list which he
Said one OF his agents had obtained clandestinely. Following
are the persons with whom AMFAUNA-5 is known to be in contact.

 

 

°°
(1) am€auna-20) her husband. AMFAUNA-1 has written
that he has broken personal contact with this man,

    
 

“A007 A AO ABE UES EN SS PRORATED a TY PT IEEE SESE GP STIR SNTIARAN A ona er

 
