 

 

 

“Bete Wh esler wao, recommend: ach: that } he see
: would have to inguire : into how the matter was handled.

possibly something. like the IG, but no make-work job. “He might be :
-. given an overseas post in an embassy under official cover; or (2) he ~.
feels he has earned 14/20 of retirement, under the security disability -
_ ‘argument of Pete Wheeler's. He then added what amounts to a third
. _ alternative, that he get the Agency's help with employment elsewhere
ia the © government, at a one~or- ~two step. increase and not as a  -GS- 13..

"left, and Everett (representing the other case officers) wrete him a os
. memorandum about the snistress. Sheneedéed money and her)

-. friends); het brother, a homosexual, had the adjoining aperiment ©

_secretarv or translator “neither of which was-she qualifie
t , q

” le . . a

“ ail’ this. He can't go to Dan Shorr as a Mullen "representative, because

he is tarred with CIA.

  

 

14. In his talks with Ha good friend on the Hil, " he. was 5 asked, ;

~ about his separation.from CIA, about what the IG said about it. He ..

said he never knew, as he never talked to him. .- ‘Then he called.

  
  
   
  
    

 

15.) Dee ‘Chamberlain gaid that judgments a are not easy to-
challenge, but that we could look at the procedures. ewes :

16. ‘Everett said that kis appeal was 5 essentially: | for one of two
‘altexnative things: (1) a return to the Agency, deep cover is out,- ‘but

 

17. Names of those who can a speak on his problem: J Pete a :

Wheeler, Jack Kindschi, Charlie Beckman, a Ralph (last name not S

recalled at the moment). Others involved with him in the past: Ed ,

_ Marelius, when he had troubles there,*and Glenn. |
Curtis or Curtis Glenn, } Around 1967 there were five

 

 

 

in | The had been there 1964-67, and his deputy .

had been PNGd, The new came out a week or so before Everett.”

 

 

apartment was made.a safehouse (where she entertained othar. boy |.

next decor. She was foisted off onthe Mullér cover company as.a\

fied for. 7 =?)
‘the new) wrote Everett's Fitness Report, although he had
been in a supervisory position only a.waek or 50, and had met tim wn : a

 

 

 

 

-only once, saying thet Everett's eight years of church background
“was such that he could not be at ease with the fcibles of mankind. .

Everett says he me ade "vigorous objections" th Lroagh George Kephart :

 

of GECLOED dhe understands that the Fitness Report was amended — .
aad ¢ vas Sceprimanded, .! ee

 

 

Cepiry -

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
     
 

 

 

 

Q 1B. “the ‘relevance of this was that when I he, Everett, was .
preparing to enter into the Chicago: arrangement, the man who had been

was the Deputy Division Chief in DO Division (now -
Jack Kindschi told Everett that this man is the one who was.
for. the adverse | turn of events, -.

 

 

 

 

 

ereti: spoke | of the “feck tnat AgtE Ea Jachberg was under -
Mullen cover in, Singapore. _ He. unders tands that Hochberg was.
: withdrawn for his safety, rélating a story he had from Marty
-Lukeskie that Hochberg was told ta go to Bangkok end phene for —
ay structions,” whic ch led to his moving to Manila. ; , :

 

 

26, Everett pressed for alacrit ty in our review of his case.
We: said we coulg/sef the affair rounded up before about, two weeks.
We got his home and office telephone umber."

 

“

   

“isl

- ‘s. D. Breckinsidge.

 

. ele ak

  

 

 

 
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
   

    

 BindschilS earlier service in Stockholm under cover (with Everett) :
where Sa et ten bation ohn ). Everett.

 

 

 

 

. Everett returned to “Washi on Ly Fune 1972--he noted the

; ‘irony of the date, being the one of th Watergate arrests. Hemet —
Howard Hunt (for the. first time). on 19. J une at the Mullen office, at :
which Hunt met him like ‘a long Jost brother, baséd on his own earlier

CIA employment, Now théy were both vice presidents of the same © _
company. The. window of the office was across the street from.that |

of the office of headquarters of the Committee to Re-elect the President.
Everett commented that’ they must be uneasy Nover there, " and 2 .
cormmmented on the stupidity of what had been ‘done in view of the ovex- :

7 whelming. strength of the President. ..He could sed something like that |

. happening in 1937 (sic), when theré was the issue of peace, Hunt did

not ‘comment,. but in about a half hour theré was. a phone. call indicating
_that the police hada lead, Hunt exclaimed, 'My God,.no!" and left.

"They met.on the street shortly. thereafter, but Hunt. didn't even_.see

_him he was so preoccupied. He returned: to the office and left again

and Everett never saw him again: Everett observed that his association
with Hunt , although clean, was another weakness in his cover. His. --
Z cover, ‘vhich: baa been strong was now gone,"! Now. deep. cover was -

for him, and the anestion, became what to do.. .

 

 

   

6. -At this point ‘Eve t gave his 5 personal view that an intelli-.
gence oxganization has epee Sal résponsibilities towards its employ ees.
- "If it doesn't react with integrity towards its empl toyeessnthat wit be

     

7 th a oe
then said ‘that Dr. Sct esinger. myas here Sees -
; Déscribing i it as a. shattering experi ence for th ne Agency,.. he saw it
“as affecting the Agency! s ability to adjust to its respe onsibilities
He { Ever ett) had locked. ‘for. another line of work in the Agency, and
fmmally found a place in DO Division {although it has become FR -
, Division, and rnay have doné so by then}... The job was in Chicago, .
and he talked twice to the Chief of $ Station, .as he te exened him, whese
name he caonct now recall, meeting in a saleh suse in}
Both iclt they had “made a good marriage." . Both knew
and Everettwas tie scrt whe ceuld develop acquaintances from students ~~
- threugh prefessors. Operations would be conducted in alias and disguis

   
 
   
 
  

: Everett

 

 

 

  
 

$04-10059-10234

 

 

; MEMORANDUM FOR THE. RECORD | :

SUBJECT: | James A. “Bverett Lo
anda half yesterday afternoon. He was separated from the Agency, asa *

; Agency,’ starting. with CT training in 1959, He joined the Agency .

: after 8-1/3 2 years in the ministry, and was "clean" for purposes’ of”
“- deep cover. He served always under. cover, ‘and the meeting with: Us

was the first time he ever had been in the Headquarters Building. “:

‘He had spent four years in Norway, and spoke the ‘language, which”

 

which he now "thinks may have been. “wrong

49 years ~ 1960-67 ~ first under cover with an export-import firm. --
. into. CCS. - He retained his cover in’ Mullen (which was two blocks

> awey from the LPGLOBE offices), being responsible for the Africa. .

without enough to dow ek te

‘divided class. .He knew A gee, having a casual but familiar association . .

   
  

 

"26 February 1974

 

‘1,- Everett met with the IG and the undersigned for over an hour ra a

 

Staff Agent, in, J une 1973, and now. seeks a Feview of that action. . .
Cr

 

a 2. Everett ‘stated that he served fox fourteen years with the | 3

 

 

he felt made him a natural for his oxiginal: choice of "deep | cover, n mo a

 

, 3. Everett states’ ‘that he ¥ was s with the Agency in Swéden for” 7 o oo

 

based in New York The,last three to three and a half years were .
with Robert R. Mullen & Co. He says hef#/% the number two man |”
in LPGLOBE, which he understands has since been incorporated -

 

 

area, Then he went to the Netherlands for four, years; he doubted
the viability of that assignment, yet there were four * people | there oo

 

4. ‘Two things happened. _ First there was the Western |
Hemisphere flap, related to the Agee case. He had been a CT” os
classmate of ‘Agee! Ss, although they were in different parts of the yoo

 

 

with him during training. He says Agee has a phenome enal memory. |
He has not seen Agee since training. He says that Agee was Kindschi's
case officer in Mexico City, when Kindschiwas under Mullen cover,

7 and thai Agee listed Kin sischiie a book Agee has written, reporting

Per Jean Ss. - original i in Everette! s
Case File. oye:

  
 

 

practically agreed, the previso being approval of the Division Chief, :

 

- to tell him that he had been declared surplus. | Seckman described.
alternatives that Beckman characterized as being "very generous, ne
along with a “tpumber of horror steries to keep’me feeling a little =
“ more comfortable." ‘There were three limitations on a seltlement: .
_ @) Everett could not use his former.Agency employment. as a xeferenca, .

‘a year's salary, with taxes deductible. Everett said he couid not -

“ment with no record of what he had done for the past fourteen’ years. 0.
Beckman was ‘quoted 2 as: seying itis "the best anybody" s ‘been offered. Ree

; (2pparently) off-set this reaction with statements of the Agency's.
authority to hire and fire, and told him of the lack of, success of |
eléven who had taken the 3 is sue, to court.

| in a few day’. 15 July was the deadline. "They" returned on 15, Suly oe

, taxéd. This meant an extra $5,000 out of his pocket. Everett then
. cited some $18- 19, 000 for his: salary, plus some $10, ‘800 from his

 

ee Se

‘

“and there was practically no ‘chance of a tie-in- ‘to the past. Everett

says he did not have a "signature on paper," but he considered it .

 

"gr somecne above him." He only had to come in ona Menday, | pee Fe
ziter which he would go to. Chicago to look for housing. : No-one kept. fos

_the Mondey arpointment at the safehouse.- Again, on Tuesday, NG 6:
‘Que showed up., He became worried about the Vo ff again, cn-again''
“nature of this. (On Friday another appointment was nade, bot instea
_ of someone from the Division showing up, it was Jack Kindschi and

   

Charlie Beckman from CCS, the latter saying it wes his resbpansibility.«

 

  
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
 

{2} he’ ‘could not use his former Mullen association as a ‘Yeference, and *
(3) he could not seek employment on the East coast... He-would be paid

accept the offer. He was an executive who would have to seek empioy~

. 8. Everett talkea with Mallen,” “who he said + was ‘shocked. - 7
Mullen had helped Bissell, and had done more for the Agency than-
many in it,: arid could not understand this approach, Beckman -.”

9. Everett ‘warited | a Slump sum payment, “ gnaccountable; and

and said OK, but on 30, duly they. said the payment would haye to be

  

retirement ahd accumulated leave. He did not compl éte summarizing
ali the details. "He said they tried their best to go back and re-
calculate. the past five years to help on the tax, -and the Agency is’ oa
responsible for doing the tax "this. year. and until the taxes Jevel off. " 7

  

  

: 10. _Everett said he had ‘talked with Pete Wheeler at the time © al
who was incensed, and who said wert get you something, u and as mony

we

 

 
14-00000

   
   
  
   
   
   
  

long as Iam in this Agency you will have a job.''. This was in June-

* July 1973, and Wheeler ‘fought it up to and including Schlesinger." .
Everett said his record was superior--he had never been ina flap,

. alt hough Ae had taken over pecple's flaps, he had never had a moncy

: pzobl em, he had never raped a secretary, while others who had-
geoblems. stayed ons. Wt aseler argued that if acid had been throws in
nis face he would have been retired on medical Gisability, and that

ow he suffered. a sécurity disability which, for our Agency, was just -
as much a disability, and he should be retired with an annuity. Wheeler
qucted Schlesinger to Everett as dismissing it out of hand, and Colby
as not, wanting to touch it.. Wheeler said he had no where else to go,
‘and it was final. : Everett then \ went to Mallen. 0

 

  
   
  

AL ‘Mellen then undertook to , take ¢ on the + responsibility, although —

it was not his... "He said there would be ncthing for 1973, but that then

he could expect $25, 000.2 year, followed by $35, 000. Unfortunately
WwW atergate hasnot fone away--it has been hamme ex, hammer, hammer.
‘Innocent people have been hurt, and Mullen has lost business because
of it. . The largest account has been lost, for Rehabilitation of the
Handicapped at $98,000 a year. He also named General Foods to the
tune of $50-60, 000 a year, the Mormon Church and International
Rotary Club. : * Mullen sold out to Robert Bennett, to be paid $150, 000,
bet in view of what has happened to the company he has waived the
: payment... Everett still wants lo stay “with Bennett, bet Bennett is..-
looking around, for a way ‘to get out, alae would mean the company
is thr ough. : , oe ; . ;

 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  

‘Everett spoke of his status, in which his family, the Dutch,

hie’ church, ete., have not kiowz bis zusociation with CIA. The publicity -
of the Mull en Amsterdam office.can mean only him; as he was the
Ameterdam. ‘office. ‘With the Muilen Company he brought in 2 $30, 06s
acount--$25, welere) ‘this year=-but ncw it seems to be under some hold.

‘lo: the account hecause of publicity who i is to pay? es

: obligated to his clients. and is “res spo ibs
He has arranged for bie two New York secr retaries,

 

   

  

att.and two secrstar i

of the vice presidenci : fe iphone .

? body under the U.S, ‘Rail Act, with Senator Baker behind him. ‘The

/ decision mast be made ina week: There has been talk of a GS- «23

. for Everett in the Department of Transportation, with support through
‘the Bennetts(including Senator Bennett). But Watergate publicity will

the

        
 
  
 
   
   

 
