 

EYES Pry

Serer
oe

(1) Certain intelligence data on air fields and mining.

(2) Advice how beet to neutralize the "Beard's" air force.

(3) & we could neutralise the air force by dropping anti-aircraft
artillery to them,

3. While they will not accept the financing under the AMRASP they are
probably willing to have ell this hardware support to be dons in the name of
AMRASP and told me that the AMRASP pilots belong in fact to them,

4, I (Droller) left with them a $2, 500 check and left the matter in this
way? thet J, a¢ of today, cannot see how I could change the funding arrangement,
that I would get in touch with them about 1530 houre and find out aud tell them

whether or not they could expect further sessions with my military colleagua,

Telecon from Droller

Note Drolier was till in the meeting at 1230 hours in an apartment and there
was no pay phono near, He will call back between 1400 and 1430 houre.

ryeg evry

.T
 

1044017910018

ete

 

teeters +5

~pemtags eee

noe ALT eon ema

we : : ny TO CIA
; RETUR ‘ge Onl
Bac dot Repronuee

-_

~ EYES ORLY

SECRET

22 November 1960

Message from Droller
1. Under ne circumstances will they (the group) accept funding via

AMRASP,
2. Military matter: They are very serious about 27 November,

.

The

reason is two separate plans they intend to mesh into one:
Se
b. Intelligence therefrom for the freeing of Matos. They feel

that the man in charge of the Matos prison This man will

probably be transferred in the near future. Also, there is quite 2 likelihcod

that will be transferred, Their idea fs tha! | wuld go and

capture a fellow by the name of "Chino" thea would make a very routine trip

with 40 men down to the place where the prigon is,with the help of

free Matos, and they are convinced «- and 60 is Barquin, who is their military
i)
land Matos can

 

planner -- that with Matos free,"'Chino" neutralized,
control this particular area, The question is thet they can contre! it but they

can hold ft only for a longer period of time ff they are eesured of 2} adequate” aon
=ep resupply and b) it is important that “The Beard's" air support for this area .

te be destroyed if possible, The reason they have picked the 27th ie that:

01 ton be transferred and b) might not stay too long therefore

thay would like to move rather fast. What they would like from us ier

EVES

Seki

ry
a

 

 

IBA
