-? An

“ow . hiadg
an 5 . Loe ati
rn er ee . aves

whe

10. The meeting adjourned at 0100 hours, 2 April. The group agreed that
if any further discussions were necessary this would be covered the morning of
2 April before the Director's departure on leave.

Jd. D. Esterline
: C/WH/s
i

SEE

sete’ = sects
ae =|
Pn Pa. (GS |

SECRET yr Gey

8 April 1960

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Review of the Cuban Operation and Examination of Possibilities for
Herispheric Support from Liberal Governments

TIME & PLACE: QDDALE's Home; 2245 Hours, 1 April 1960

PARTICIPANTS: DCI; C/WHD; C/WH/4; General Robert Cushman, Vice Presidential
' “Military Aide; Mr. Walter Donnelly, Vice President of U. S.
Steel; and Mr. William Pawley, Industrialist

1. The DCI opened the meeting by stating that everybody present should
be aware of the fact that Fidel CASTRO end his Commnist-orlented regime must
be renoved from power in Cube. He said the necessary approval had been given
for an operation and that the chosen instrument will be a "government in
exile". The DCI went on to say that CIA has been in contact with several non-
BATISTA groups which will form the nucleus of this government. These groups
were identified as the Montecristi group, the VARONA group, the Catholic
Action Front and private Cuban citizens; such as, Dr. RUBIO Padilla.

2. The DCI said that the government in exile had not yet found a seat of
government, but thet consideration is being given to Venezuela, Costa Rica,
Puerto Rico and Mexico. He indicated that the United States has been ruled
out and that Puerto Rico also is out of the question, since MUNOZ Marin's
attitude toward CASTRO is not firmly crystalized. The DCI then requested any
thoughts the group might have on this subject. Mr. Donnelly suggested that
consideration might be given to Canada. The DCI said that in many ways Canada
would be a good choice, but indicated that relations with Canada on other
matters are such that Canada probably could not be used. The possibility of
using Colombia or Mexico was then mentioned. C/WHD said that serious consideration
had been given to the use of Mexico, but that present indications are that Presi-
dent LOPEZ Mateos would not be enthusiastic about permitting a"government" to
establish its base in his country. Regarding, Colombia, both C/WHD and Mr.
Donnelly said that the recent elections in Colombia, which came as somewhat of
a surprise, cast serious doubt on the use of Colombia for this purpose. Haiti
was mentioned, but ruled out because of its proximity to the Dominican Republic
and the unsettled political situation. C/WHD said that for the moment the best
choice appeared to be Costa Rica, and he indicated that he had been in contact
with Adolph Berle who had shown willingness to approach ex-President Jose
FIGUERES vis-a-vis permitting the exile government to locate itself there.

Both Mr. Donnelly and Mr. Pawley agreed that Costa Rica, for many reasons,
would be the best choice. During the summarization of possibilities, Mr. Pawley
 
 Stepey

mentioned the recent case of General PEDRAZA and Francisco CAJIGAS as a case

in point of the U.S., which illustrated the sensitivity of the United States
being used by the exiles. Mr. Pawley explained that at C/WHD's direction,

he had persuaded General PEDRAZA to leave the country. Mr. Pawley said he

had contacted General PEDRAZA through General DIAZ Tamayo and advised him that
an extradition request would soon be received from Cuba and there was a strong
likelihood that General PEDRAZA would be picked up and held pending extradition.
He said that General PEDRAZA had reacted to this irmediately and had departed
for Ciudad Trujillo the day following his conversation with Mr. Pawley.

3. The DCI informed the group that plans have already been made to
supplement U.S. Government funds from private confidential sources to defray
the cost of the Cuban operation. He turned the details of this discussion
over to C/WHD. C/WHD explained that over and above a bond issue, which will
be floated in the name of the government in exile with Mr. Pawley's help,
that donations are being made by private citizens and corporations. He indicated
that confidential arrangements have already been made with the Bureau of Internal
Revemue to permit individuals or corporate entities making donations to claim
these donations as contributions to the U.S. Government for tax purposes. He
cautioned that this arrangement is being limited to a very small group.

On the matter of the bond issue, Mr. Pawley said he was still waiting
to receive from CIA an acceptable list of Cuban exiles who will sign the bond
issue. For the general information of the group, it was explained that two
candidates had been decided upon, but that a final decision on the last two is
still pending. Possible signers mentioned were Dr. Antonio VARONA, head of
the Autentico Party, and Dr. RUBIO Pedille.

4. Mention of Dr. VARONA's and Dr. RUBIO Padilla's names led to a
discussion of the ex/infiltration problems facing CIA. The group was told
that CIA is rapidly developing exfiltration capabilities by sea and air. Mr.
Pawley said that if CIA desired to expand this capability beyond present planning,
the Chalk Air Line, operating out of Miami, could be purchased for a reasonable
price. He indicated that this air line operates five “widgins" in the Caribbean
area. C/WHD expressed inmediate interest in this air line and indicated he
would have a representative of WID in Miami early the week of 4 April to look
at the company.

5. CIA plewfor clandestine radio broadcasts were covered with the group.
The precise location of the transmitter was not revealed, but group members
were told that a series of hard-hitting broadcasts will be mounted in the near
future. The group was also told that USIA is increasing its radio effort and
that the Montecristi group will be mountirg independent broadcasts from WRUL
in the United States by April 15. The group was told that CIA has already
gathered some talent to produce programs for the radio broadcasts and that
additional personnel is being exfiltrated to be employed in a production work-
shop, which will produce tapes that will be put on *he air by the clandestine
transmitter. Finally, the group was told that broadcast time in the name of
the "government in exile" will also be arranged with radio stations scattered
throughout the Caribbean. SECRET
settee

Pe ee ens

3
‘
'
i
‘
{

 

 

=~

a ~ setae

-3-

Apert from radio operations, it was noted that Mr. Pawley has alreacy made
arrangenents for the printing of Diario de la Marina, the leading Cuban daily
newspaper, in Miami. It was further indicated that CIA will arrange clandestine
distribution of this newspaper throughout Latin America and Cuba es a part of
its other pronazanda activities.

 

6. The DCI raised the question of how we play the overthrow of CASTRO
with the other Latin American Republics; i.e., what should be done through the
OAS. Mc. Fawley said that he thought cur iftlitary Missions abroad could be
used more effectively. He indicated he felt that Mission personnel, properly
briefed, could do much to bring the situation into focus in Latin America by
keeping their Latin American counterparts briefed on a continuing basis. He
also lamented the fact that historically the Department of State has frequently
blocked the travel of Latin American military officers to and from the States
on the theory that it would not be good for Latin American relations. (It was
during this discussion that the case of General Jesus Maria CASTRO Leon was
mentioned, citing the possibility he might be refused a visa to the United
States for political reasons. General Cushman was briefed on the vital role
that General CASTRO played in protecting Vice President Nixon until his departure
from Venezuela in May 1958. General Cushman said he would take action to see
that General CASTRO is not denied a visa to the United States.)

7. The guestion of whether o11 sanction could be an effective weapon
against CASTRO was mentioned. The DCI and C/waD stated that they anticipated
no immediate action in this area. The o11 companies have recognized the fact
that sooner or later Cuba will turn to the Sino-Soviet bloc for o11. Donnelly
speculated that CASTRO is, in fact, playing the United States off against the
Soviets in the matter of oil importation and that the only limiting factor

in this gambit is the probable fact that the Soviets will want cash for oil
they deliver.

8. Considerable time was spent discussing the present pathetic effort on
the part of the Catholic Church to face wp to the Communist threat in Cuba.
The discussion revealed that the Church's inaffectiveness stems from fractionali-
zation within the hierarchy and a complete absence of leadership on the part
of the Papal Nuncio, further complicated by his secretary's close connivance

with the extreme left. Two lines of action were agreed upon to remedy this
situations

(a) The DCI directed that a cable be sent to
immediately, requesting that he approach the Vatican at the proper
level and briefly explain tne Church's situation in Cuba. He would
also request that the Vatican send a senior official to Cuba to
investigate and return to the Vatican with specific recommendations.
(Note: A cable to Rome was prepared on 4 April.)

(b) he Director indicated he would be attending a dinner
being given by the Apostolic delegate in Washington for Mr. Robert
Murphy of the Department of State on 12 April. He indicated he would
endeavor to apprise the delegate of the Cuban situation during this
dinner. oa

” _drge geet teeters

 

ee ee See ee a ne HR pe oe ee
— - ween yore ee meen 2 we 7
