 

104-10183-10013

“y

By

 

sot

‘ee,

SUBJECT. =: : AMWHIP/1 Meeting, New York ‘City-

-for luncheon at the Italian Restaurant next door, The meeting

 

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
Tuesday, 8 October 1963. °

lL Meeting Time/Place. The meeting was arranged by
telephone from D. C. sterile No. for 1330 jn AMWHIP's office.
The undersigned picked A/l up as planted and left the premises

 

terminated without incident at 1600,

2. Purpose of Meeting. The meeting was scheduled in
order to request A/T to leave for Paris in time to make a Cuban:
Embassy reception there on the evening of 10 October 1963.

A/l was also paid his air fare and expenses incurred during
his recent trip to Brazil in connection with the AMLASH op.- toe

A signed receipt was also received by the under-
signed for an advance of $945.00 against the purchase of a
return ticket to Paris for the above reason. ‘

-3. Details-of Meeting. On Monday, 7 October 1963,
Headquarters Tecelved a cable from Ontrich in Paris stating that -
AMLASH had changed his mind about not seturning, and as a .
result, felt th.t it was imperative that he show up at the Cuban a
Embassy reception for the departing Ambassodor in the company - . 8
of AMWHIP in order to lend credence for his prolonged stay :
in Paris and to expinin his source of funds while there, In :
response to a call from the undersinged, AMWHIP replicd that
gome very worrisome business problems at present precluded his
going at this time. Said he would call later 1f could arrange
it. Meanwhile, on heels of first cable came second with
encouraging report re AMLASH attitude towards cooperation
on worthwhile basis with KUBARK, Undersinged again called
AMWHIP, wade lunchcon date, in order push case for ANVHIP
going Paria «ven if for just day or two, At luncheon talk,
after covering problem fully ag received PART 0934, AMWHIP
said he would do all poanable to comply. Back et office be
began checking flights to Paris,. Said he would contact ua
next day at 1200, Since the dnderaigned felt AMWHEP would
make the ¢rip, letter wan given fontructions for contacting
ONTRICH in Parsu and the addrena of AMLASI there (Por ONTHICH:
tel: ANJO 7400, X 7469: For AMLASH, Motel Studia, tel: DAN-RIOO),
(Next day at 1600. undersigned tearned that AMWHIP hed had trouble
Ketting reservation, but had finally auccecded aud wemwld go vie
ROA, arriving PARE via LOND at 1400, 10 October, This cabled

 

 

to ONTAICH,)
Pan ae .

i :

 

 

 

 
