13-00000

L. BEKRENEV, in a top secret lecture to s Soviet Military Intelligence course
st Military-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, said,

"Gase officers who use ag cover, lat us say, the Soviet Trade
Representation, TASS or Sovinfermburoe, can use their cover
assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with

certain agents vhose particular activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet institutions. However,
such non-clandestine meetings within a legel residency should be
restricted to a minimm both as to place and time. Meetings of

thia type showld be carried cut only in exceptional cases with
tested end reliable agents in order to avoid provocation by the
local. counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation
being used as cover. Such meetings are held as a rule in the work
-epaaieetbeibendngninttbetiiredin-ainhibwrignSehrrin beerel

It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of cuteiders, and that the receipt
and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be
carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures -agninst
tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with
persona outs. efficial premizes and during non-working houre usuelly
signifies a ‘tionship between the two parties that is abeve and
beyond official matters.”

: Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's own
: earelessness. Again Admiral BEKREIRV speaks:

“Some agents, because of inexperience or becanse of deliberate

: . violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal
rashness,..-. epproached our case officers at places not stipulated
as operational meeting sites, others telephoried the case officer at

: : his Soviet installation and discussed personel contact arrangenents,

i while others still showed up personally at the Soviet installation in
order to contact the case officer."

: ‘ hk, I called the above comections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by
i ‘phone to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 Hovember.
104-10300-10162

 

.

 

23 November 1563

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans
FROM: Acting Chief, SR Division

SUBJECT : Contact of Lee OSWALD with a member of Soviet KGB
Assassination Department

a
fs

1. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

“yas at the Soviet Bnbasay there on 23 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valeriy Visdimirovich KosTiKov’® ‘this was learned when OSWALD culled

” the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, identifying himself by nawe and spesking

broken Russian, stating the above and esking the guard who answered the phone
vhether there was “enything new concerning the telegrem to Washington.”

Tae guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but
nothing had as yet been received. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison
officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to
believe that OSWALD's visit was to get Sovlet support for a U.S. pasayort or
visa matter fperhaps the new pessport mentioned in the press articles/.

2. KOSTIRDOV is an identified KGB officer. He was a case officer in en
operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department ,(respoasible
for sabotage and assessination). This operation, which is controlled by the
Fal under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved-a Cerman-national resident~of:

(Oclahona)who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV in Mextto

  

City and shortly thereafter with a imown 13th Department officer, Olég narxiu, “* >
in New York. The instructions given TUMBLEWEED by the two officers, (pinpointing
objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in tho ‘dade,
left no doubt that both of theni were working for the same KGB component, the

L3th.

3. Of course it is not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to
have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret
Soviet intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which
show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as
cover for their presence there some sort of open business: Vice Admiral
13-00000

 

5. I am attaching
1) a summary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and,

2) ell valid background information now available on the work
of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB:

‘ a. Extracts from Report on the Soviet State’ Securit:
Service (KcB), dated May 1963, based on information from AELADLE.

b. Soviet Use of Kidnapping and Assassination -- Executive
Action, dated August 1960.

ec. Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

 

 

 

 
13-00000

 

SUBJECT: Valeriy Viladinirovich KOSTIXOV

KOSPIKOV, who was born on 17 Maren 1933 in Moscow, vas
assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Hexico City es Viae Consul
cn 19 September 1961.

A fluent Spanish speaker, he had travelled abroad at least
three times before thia permanent assignment, moreover, in 1959
KOSTIKOV applied for a viaa to accompany Premler Hikita Sergeye~
vich KHRUSHCHEV'sa party to the United States as an official of
the Soviet Minitatry of Foreign Affairs, but we have no record
of his having come to this country at that time, KOSTIXKOV
served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid
and Bareelona in 1958 and 1959. In late 1959 and early 1960
he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexieo City and Havanas he
is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to 7 March 1966.

The physical deseription of KOSTIXOV quite accurately fits
that of a Soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in
Mexico an FBI-controlled double agents This double agents
Soviet-<case officer in the United States has been Oleg Dantle-
vieh BRYKIBN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief
Directorate, oceupying the overt vosition of translator-traines,
U-WeSecretariat, Hew York City. BRYKIW was stationed in Kew
York,City from December 1960 to July ef this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTIKOV is known to have travelled
three tines outside the capital: In March 1953 and again for the
first tvo weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and
Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton. The
U.S. Department of State, howevar, has reported that during
these triys KOSTIKOY met local representatives of Hovimento
Liveration National and Central Compesina Indevandienta, both
large Communist front organizations. In addition, according to
FSI sources, KOSTIKOV wes accompanied on the Septamber trip by
ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV and he contacted in Ensenada several
persons including Communist aympathisers who previously had been
associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, 8 PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close
contact with Cuban diplomats and local Communist leaderg during
a February 1962 visit to Quito.

 
