 

REVEREND DR¢ MARTIN LUTHER KING)

-  ~ -King;--a- Negro, -was -born-January~15; “1929; in © ~
Atlanta, Georgia. Hei, received an A.B, degree from HNorehouse
College in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1948; a B.D. degree fron
Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania, in
1951; and a Ph.D. degree from Boston University in 1955,

 

In 1957, King-founded the Southern Christian
Leadership ‘Conference with himse1z as President, a position
‘be ‘still holds. |

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

 
  
   
  
   
   

In‘his rise to national prominence since he
headed the Montgomery, Alabama, bus boycott in 1956, King.
has been closely allied with cornunists, He has shown not
only a willingness but even an.eagerness to accept communist
aid, to. support communist causes, to confer with high-
ranking comminist functionaries, and ‘to’ "vely heavily upon
the advice and direction of dedteated communists with
concealed affiliations.

Pa

King is regardewW in communjst circles

jas a genuine Marxist-Leninist who is following the Marxixt
Leninist line. Over a period of time, he has been guided —
into advocating a procommunist position on the war in
Vietnam. Specifically, King seeks to create opposition to.

that war and thereby influence the United States Government
to withdraw .its troops from Vietnan,

In the past year, King has become an open critic
of the Vietnam war and was the keynote speaker at the rally
held in New York City on April 15, 1967, under the sponsorship

of. the Spring Mobilization Committee to End the War in
Vietnan,

King was awarded the Nobel Prize for peace in
1964 and has traveled abroad on several occasions. He has
publicly announced that he will travel to Europo and perhaps

the Soviet Union sometime in the near future in pursuit of
"peace" in Vietnam,

- 54 =

SECRET

 
74-0000

a “Brown, a Negro, was—born-October—4,1943, in
'. Baton Rouge, Louisiana'\ a& Hubert Geroid Brown. He is
‘reported to have attended thérn University in Baton

' Rouge but. left before graduation and became involved -in
civil rights activities in Mississippi and Alabama,

 

  

A mehber of thé SNCC since 1963, Brown succeeded

Stokely Carmichael as National Chairman in May, 1967, . -

Since becoming National Chairman, Brown has folloved
Carmichael's example by traveling throughout the United

*

'. States making speeches condemning American: policy toward

Vietnam, assailing the white man, und.calling fer coe
“rebellion by any means" and for "massive civil disobedience,"

. He. has encouraged Negroes to buy” firearns and ammunition,
. \

Ba

ce
The State of Maryland .desued a warrant for Brown's

arrest on a charge of inciting’ a riot and inciting to

commit argon as a result of an inflammatory epeech he made

at Cambridge, Maryland, on, Iuily 24, 1967, He was subsequently

arrested in Alexandria, Virginia, andvis currently on bond -

. Appealing extradition to Maryland, Under the conditions of

his bond, Brown is prohibited .fron traveling to make speeches

and is restricted to southern New York in the custody of his

attorney,

; Cn August 19, 1467, Brown was arrested in New
York City on a.¥Federal charge of transporting.2 weapon in
interstate commerce (New York City to New Orleans and return
‘by commercial airliner) while under indictment for a
felony, He was released on $15,000 bond, — :

3

LA
WSu

&
. . 4

- 45 -

SECRET
74-0000

 

° _ STOKELY CARMICHAEL
a

“77> = “Carmichael, a Negro, was born June 29, 1941, in

: Trinijcad, West Indies,. and gained derivative United States
citizenship through his father's naturalization. He
Kraduited from Howard University in Washington, D.C., in
June, 1964, with a degree in philosophy.

- Shertly after, being elected National Chairman

of the SNCC in 1966, he transformed this organization from
‘a civil rights group to a revolutionary black nationalist
organization. He popularized the slogan of "black power"
which, to Carmichael, signifies “bringing. this. country to
its knees" and using “any force recessary" to obtain Negro
Boals. He maintains that "violence is inevitable in this
struggle for Negro liberation," and he‘urges Negroes in the
‘United States to prepare for a {'Bloody wevolution,"

an tae: -
''In his public appe%rances, Carmichael has
vocifercusly and bitterly condemned the war in Vietnam as
an “illegal, immoral" war béing “fought for racist reasons."
te Claims the only way to ‘stop the war is for young Americans
to say "to hell with the draft." e

Since being replaced by H. Rap Brown as SNCC
-National Chairman in May, 1967, Carmichael has traveled
extensively throughout the world trying to solicit support for
the SNCC and the black arstionalist movement in the United States.

Carmichael. was an observer at the conference of the
‘Latin American. Solidarity Organization (LASO) in Havana, Cuba,
in July-August, 1967." The LASO promotes revolution in Latin
America through guerrilla ,warfare. "While in Cairo, Fgypt,
in October, 1967, Carmichael said he did not know if he was
a communist "but my political philosophy is influenced by the
Chinese and Cuban revolutions." ‘ .

. Just prior to his return to the United States in
December, 1967, Carmichael spoke before an audience of 3,000
in Paris, France, where ‘he reportedly shouted "We do not want
peace, we want the Vietnamese to defeat the United States."

 

SECRET
7400000"

j SECRET

 

o and black nationalism, especially from so-called third world
fo countries such as Syria, Egypt, Algeria, Guinea and Tanzania,
: Carmichael also visited Cuba, North Vietnam, Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, and France before returning to the United States on

December 11, 1967. ik Oo

. While in Cuba in late July, Carmichael was honored at
a dinner given by Fidel Castro who described him as the "repre—
sentative of the Negro people of the United States." In an
- hour-long harangue in Havana on August 1, Carmichael compared
the Negro revolt in América to the Cuban revolution and exhorted
American Negroes to take up arms and fight for their freedom,

_ In-Paris, France, on Dacember 7, 1967, Carmichael told
3,000 persons that he would like to see America lose the Vietnan
war. Standing before huge portrait of the dead Latin American
revolutionary Ernesto "Che" Guevara, he declared that "black
people have always been cannon f \dder for™the wars of imperialism."
He urged young American Negroes ¥o "devélop a‘resistance movement
that will disrupt the entire:Umtited States." :

'. The SDS has expressed its support_of other extremist

nary Action Movement (BAM) .

organizations such as the Revolution
RAM is a militant all-Negro-organizdtion whith advocatas-urban
guerrilla warfare as a means of overthrowing. the United States
Government and replacing it with @ Chinese communist-~orlented
society. At the SDS National Convention in June, 1967, a
resolution was adopted to the effect that the SDS would defend
and give aid to members of the SNCC and RAM who were arrested,

‘ Merger of Antiwar and Civil Rights Movements
ci eS HOVEMeNtTS

; One of the most ambitious endeavors of the new left
to date--which kas been given high priority by leaders of both
the new left and the comminist left--has been an all-out effort
to unite the antiwar movement with the civil rights struggle.
The claim is made that the war in Vietnam is diverting attention
from civil rights and is consuming funds that might otherwise be
expended for the war on poverty in the Negro ghettos of large
cities, The Vietnam war is denounced as a "racist war" in a
constant barrage of propaganda emanating from such organizations
as the SNCC and the SDS as well as from communist sources. Negroes
are urged to unite with their "Vietnamese brothers" in the struggle

-~ 8 .~

 
[0g 10125-10187
ve ©

  

 

 

SbCRET

. ye ted , a
SIE On Eee Se A Rey a ;
: . . * . .

. Extracted from "The Nev J efts Road:x Anarchy", Fi YL December 1967

wet

 

the mara than 200,000 who tock part in the massive civil
riage ‘ monstration in Washington in trust» 1963-- it is
ips t that support wasfSel? rite and xgcoived from
wis. zioty of organizations ranging id/ostablished
acifist groups 7té reanizations which’ have publicly vowed
their enonetrati to o theninternationsl comminist movement.

Th iemonstr on marked the firm establinhnont of *

another~p¥ank in the'\new left piatform-~the “antiwar
movement," ; .

   
  
   

Black Power Concept

As*the university reform and antiwar movements
gained momtntum, new left influence in the civil rights
movement began to wane. The passage of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 had encourag sed responsible civil rights leaders
to look incre easingly to the law for redress of their grievances,
and by the end of 1965, there wus a diminution of the tactics
which had characterized the early days of the civil rights
struggle. This new stance thant by the*tivil rights leaders
was totally incompatible with th militant philosophy of the
new left. Toya
e

Theperiod of relative ‘tranquility in the civil
rights movement came to an*abrupt end in May, 1966, when
Stokely Carmichael* was elected Natiénal Chairman of the SNCC
and promptly started to publicize the concept of “black power,"
The SNCC was considered by new leftists to be the counterpart
of the SDS in the civil rights struggle.

cis , :

. ste
+, an +

’ Following Carmichael's election, a strong resolution
was passed dt the! SDS National Council meeting in June, 1966,
which made reference to the long-standing fraternal relations
between the SDS and the SNCC and fully endorsed the philosophy
of black power. The resolution stated, in part: “Let it be
clear that we are not merely supporting SNCC's right to its
views, we are welcoming and supporting the thrust of SNCC's
program, and expect to‘continue our joint work."" Thus, it

was clear that the introduction of the principle of black power
had served to overcome a temporary setback, experienced by the
new left in the civil rights campaign..

In Nay, 1967, when H. Rap Brown* became SNCC National
Chairman, Carmichael want abroad to solicit support for the SNCC

*See Appendix.

FK TASK FORCE

REVIEWED BY FBUS ae
oN t FULL oO
© RELEASE IN , , . ; SECRET

o RELEASE IN PART iM He)

TOTAL DENIAL C,

 

   

 
  
 
74-0000

 

as so on _ SECRET

Pa : i! ‘ . re oo .

cco . . : oy Oe at
”

against the "U.S. imperialists" and to. refuse to serve in the
Armed Forces. fee Cathe

og a
. The. Reverend. Dr....Martin—-Luther-King,* recognized

' Creator of the so-called ."non-violent resistance" tactics utilized

so effectively in the early days of the civil rights Struggle, hag
for the past two years injected himself into the Vietnam war tasue
and has given much stimulus to the efforts of the ney left to
bring about a merger of the civil rights movement with the antiwar
movement. It is significant that King's-position on Vietnam has
been carefully plotted by several of his close advisors who are
‘dedicated’ communists with concealed affiliations. As a matter of
fact, one of these communist advisors wrote the apeech which King
delivered op April 15, 1967, at the rally of the Spring Hobiliza~
tion Committee to End the War in Vietnam held in Hew York City in

| which he viciously 'cenrounced United Statés policy in Vietnan,

Although civil rights university reform, and perce
continue to provide the inpetus*¥for the new left, there ig a
constant change in the emphasie placed on the various sx6pects of
these issues. Just as the tain thrust of the new left in civil
rights is now focused on the philosophy of black power, the curr
emphasis of new left activities in the antivar movenent has in
recent months centered around resistence to the draft, New left
adherents who are active in the university reform movelhent have |
selected college administrators es their current. targets and are
demanding that the administration of the universities be turned
over completely to the students.

Community Action and “kaxticipatory Democracy"

a ; {. ‘yt

_--The new left has no real, positive ideology for bringing
about” fundamental/ changes in the political | economic, and social
System in this country. Instead, it has assumed a righteous and
intransigent moral posture which rejects. the American system but
offers no program ‘or alternatives. Since the new left .has not
developed specific, goals and a detailed program, it has been
challenged. to produce an alternative ideology and theory of ‘action,

Trent |

\

‘The mainiresponse to this chellenge kas been the develop~ .
ment of the concept of community action and “participatory”
democracy." This theory of action, in practice, is to organizo

“See Appendix:
 

—- - -.-~ --Bevel,-a-Negro,; was borii October “19, 71936, in

So SECRET

aa . 1

“REVEREND( JAMES LUTHER BEVEL

Itta Bena, Mississippi, and attended the American Baptist
Theology School in Nashville, Tennessee, from 1957 to 1961,
He 1s currently employed as a staff member of the Urban

Training Center for Christian Missions in Chicago.

‘In the Spring of 1967, Bevel was released by the
Reverend Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership
Conference to become National, Director of the Spring Mobilization
Committee to End-the War in Vietnam. Bevel has vigorously :

' protested United. States policy in Vietnam and has called

President Johnson a murderer, He has also stated, "We here
will decide what the Government will be when we take over,"

* , te

se et
yay oan!

- 44 -

 
