 

104-10174-10037

.
ww.

wae

 

Stok

oe)
et

L Fevruary 1960

MeeRALLUD. DOR THE CORD ry
°
SUBJSTs Meeting with(enry ?. Lopez Dat t e Statler-hilton Hotel on
1 February 1960 fror 1000 hours to 1539 hours.

1. Those present were ..rs. Vidal FP/PA, (:ii1Liams )
PP/EAD, Churles Penney (Twiss) sii/P¥, and ompson) uH/L/PP.

° . s
2. Hr. Copex. ave a rerort of hisontucts tn Cuba after feceiving
hig notes which yere brousht up b° ar: nd given to Hr. (Lopez
mane xvoGoreD sata that he hed given blosraghical sketches of
kebévarria, Nasco, Laureano tatista, Martinez ¢raga, ben de Leon and
Sonchez Arenyo to the Stabion reoresentative. he had also turned over a
report of Martinez Fraga on the sims of the Re ucion de la Hevolccion.

 

 

ey
3e Nre Coren’) rerort was taped end a transerint will be forwarded
to UH by P?/PA. 5

Se)

hh. Specific recommendations nade ty ir. Lorex included having
Herbert Matthews ico to iy aoand try to in*luence Castro. Uattheus
has a good reputation throuchovt the 25th of July Movement and could
help in an appresch to Castro. aA visit br Ei currow te do a broadcast
on Cuba was also recomended. MS. (Lopez) feels tiat Castro will be in
power for a long time lo coe and that we s Li tay to influence hi
He is seriously 2ffected hy any defections and these vicht be enccrr:
em Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countemnanded officials.
Two men who were mentioned as ripe for defection are tufo in Hacienda
and €epere in Comercio. *2 Berea pleo recanended contact with Padre
Alberto de Castro in Caracas. [his padre was fcrrerly Videl's instructor.
When Fidel was in Caracas he was scolded ty Faire Castro whom Tidel
treated with great respect acvordins to Josco, The Paare and Fide! scent
about one and one half hors alone together at this time. This priest
should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. ‘The possibility of
a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Heul is cold ard
mean and tho fact that he is fidel's brother des not carm too mich

weights

 
 

 
  

 
  

     

 

 

¢[nd

/~
