J2-20000

w Hol st mrips—) Avi
= a ae) :

nw On J Wete858

3. Pt

Resairenerts sat forth 212-4133, dated I$ July. If perutaston could
be Odtained for use thle territory, even if saly fur Tr Sours grice and
furing too maim strike operation, the project wmld ba advanced enterially,

he og

IAB. festfons sdvice ent asetetence secéed an following: (1) provision —
of cre (ae ‘tape/oike inotallegion owrational data for AFCIGAR
cont Gaj (2) protection pqunss) ef ANCIGAR xeabera
agaings anray aoet execative cotianz 7 (3) agent curvetllente |
to check on security and loyelty of overt/covert ABCIGIR swuberss () eclection
ef socura safe cites for housing of ADAM eeubers, for overt office, and
for covert meeting sites. Lo . :

Ce: iLitios in terns of groteetion of overt

Gyent exequtive actian opsrations.

De Can Station eammmication facilities (pouch and cstle) be uot for

 

OLIVER ¢, GALDCED
Distetbetions
3 » Mesieo
9 Amst 1960

1 » Kexteo Desk

1 + WH/\/Chrono

oa

Du/ef
‘oa-t0t7 10229

 

od oSaRaknk Bb ONG
Chief of “tettan, Fextes

cnet, sa , ot

hatters for wiseusaton when Agthony 2, 2G8CBAT
on hove af AMCIG.E te Mexles x

ST PYRAT

For PORCHAY
| Phe fallesing 4s fs espe to your reqeset for-« summery of points thst peed
Ra be elarifiet le Giseuzsiona betwen you sis Station heates om she fortaecaing : -

gure of ARCICAS to Kaxzito witye
te Hebttieat

‘Ay The requiccamnt that tho “overt” office will earsist of only Cores
offielelz, tha others being “covert”, a8! ths statement thet “the presencd
of lnegs ACIOAN fn Bexieo should at become moun em! never airittes".

Cle HALAS, 29 July. (Comavata It woul epww imowetdle to camly
with ¢bia reqairemmt if there is to be an ‘overt office and any ARAL?
peblicity. in Mexies or eloeulare, since the identities ans wherésbouts of
eli ANCIUAS meubers wilh be a matter of pudlic knowledge.)

. B The btavonnt is para 3, KTI65 4%. that the hexicas Governsest
will not be friealy enlees AAs? ectivities and “platting to overthrow
Cuban Goreranont* remaie covert. (coapenti Since toere ts to be em overt
office anc. propayanda degartuent ams AKAN? bas Seon, and will howe to
eontines te be, Ceserided ase grou oruonizes for the purpose of removing
the CAMTAY cowernnent, theie necessery propsgansa activitics toward thls
end canna be covert. Coalé is te axcified to apply only to ecreemat tat
ao wilitcry invasion vould be Loanehed Fron Faxtegt

canal

ad Ol Sdare vii ba 3) SS: Mgpuet ALLL, tre Sere eLanvoc. is anbi-was,
‘ Veat will. conse? tablined teat ZYBON ia dn cantect ufte
APRATPT Cevtalely ve can exes the ebor.@ witl te sete mary tises by we

Soviets aod Coated.) a: 24
. am Zz

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

Ps PoasteaLic sy. of (LIE noid ing weeticg. rr) trict,
Cuban cubvere iva actiwit! ea-Kex eo! (gara'§, KATS9593) vefore arrived ve sana,
wafer woold wnourtediy be Qf arcistance tn obSa ining ‘poyulas ams OoTicsel
syeosthy fer Agsat? activities. . .

 

 

a. Propasseda”
ve plan to have “acas? Pranlenis departoont io mexico, Yet 2 vill ba
inpossible far toas to operete effectively, or nied at al}, Uf = oad

 

 

Zz

ml a “public ar e press frsee*, ‘So feel a teemvadous pwoiietiy crive soe :
be mate throuztont Latio aywrios at the thar af arrival ce UO 1AG tn Pesico. |
tation KUTSC: saeets vill ta reede! to darze extent fe teprosin, the . ‘

| pediic ans political climate to elke AA? pougle ta wack ef Tective ts.

Alga, it ts boped <“getiom will te avle te puide aw caypaot aatlan, vio rtil
atriva in Sexteo sno to pracuce wt puro ods psi le, wiies wil) otenstely ts
* {ese pentent bart ectually will be PRT TrlicA wil ales gare earirioal,
aasotoue racic tage for broncensticg cver Batis wun.

: GIN
