ty

“AWG OLEY f, .

un /s /B

 

all [other] employees would remain whereythey were until
the end of 1970. He was then(eligible for a transferjand
they would be glad to entertain his ideas on the subject.

 

. &

6. Family status: Two of wwusuan/A ss lsone
graduate from their BA courses This spring. Oné will return
to his native country to undertake his military service
there. The other will app rently take some kindgof graduate
school education. The [dau shter Jeontinues at

 

 

 

7. According to WSLAB/1°S) sources there is a relative
freeze on Bolivian diplomatic aSsignments this year. Walter
Guevara Arze will remain in New York and Sanjines will pro-
bably stay here. The latter had been calling Mrs. Ovando
early in the morning and passing on news of her son who is
going to school in this area. He will then ask if it is
convenient to talk to "Alfredo" (Qvando). He sometimes gets
him to talk on the phone. During a recent call Sanjines
commented that he had heard that there was trouble in the
army. Ovando admitted that there were "prob&lems". These
concern, according to Sanjines, the activities of General
Miranda, the Army chief of staff.

Li;

y

FLOYD B. MCCULLY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pro kh 2 80/F?
(rod-t0072-10242

 

   

22 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Tf
SUBJECT: Meeting With (WsLaB/1 Jon 17 April 1970

1. Security and Arrangements: The meeting was held in
the Black Beret Restaurant at 1530 on the above ate./ At

that time the lounge was virtually unoccupied. f/WUSLAB/1
appeared about Fem tinutes late. The next meeting will
held in th fice afehousg qj at 1400 on 23 April 1970. The Te!
state of fi nee health will probably permit him to walk by ; Pa
then the ne blocks to the office safesite. He is still :
weak after his long period of convalescence. . “

 

° 2. Production: During his absence from his office
several omissions occurred. The OAS Secretariat tried to
contact’ w/i). They had received a secret report, which was
hot distributed to the OAS ambassadors, that elements in the
Dominican Republic would try and disrupt the OAS Assembly
meeting scheduled for Santo Domingo in June 1970. The OAS
Secretariat did not feel its own personnel in the DR would
be in'a position or have the access to verify the report.

So they decided to call on the UN to have the report checked Le
out through UN personnel stationed in the DR. fIn the absence”
of W/1) the OAS tried to contact Jose Rolz- -Bennétt, in the UN
Headquarters. They found that Rolz~Bennett was ill with a
hyperthroid condition. They contacted Rolz-Bennett when ~

he returned to work and he agreed to perform the task requested.
(This comes from Rolz-Bennett).

 

 

3. " Rolz-Bennett also told i) 17 ena there was no favored.
candidate to take the place of Morse as the head of the ILO.
Any Latin American *PpaskedyW/Y7 the position would have to :
,be self-appointed. I asked) W/1/about(his®cousin's/chances :
He said that he. did not know. y C ‘J RETURN To CIA

Background Use 0

4. Rolz-Bennett said that there was some disappointmey Net Reproduc
in the UN Secretariat over President Nixon's invitation to
U Thant to stop off in Washington for a lunch or reception .
; after the anniversary celebrations oF the UN in San Francisco.

   

. 5. Plans? I inquired whether Wi] waa heard anything ; :
about (his own ture) job prospects. had received infor- 4
mation from Sam | Dejani on behalf of Pavlichenko ‘nat [heand)

sacunit VicLAt!
CS gfe PY sous sonst VT

  
 
 

Che

   
