 

{r0dt0146-10313

 

oe COUHDENTIAL, =. = o//sc#
os INTERNAL USE ONLY .

Ry ournal - Office of Legislative Counsel : . : Page 4
Tuesday ~ 14 March 1978

13. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Representative Bob
Carr (D., Mich.) in response to his earlier request and based upon
the information provided by INE Division, I told Mr.
Carr that the Agency had not developed abroad any information on the _
travel of Sami Eshmil and that we had gotten an alert from the FBL on.

Eshmil's earlier trip to Libya but not on his trip to Israel when he was
arrested. ’ .

 

14. (Usclaceified - “Mpe) LIAISON Received a call from Rita
Argenta, of the House Armed Services Committee staff, who wanted
to know what clearances Williston B. Cofer, of the Committee staff,
holds,. After checking with Compartmented Information Branch, I

- informed Rita of Gofer' 8s Clearances and amended a our records to reflect —

same, .

   

(Unclassifiea - RSG) LIAISON Called Dave Melocik, = =. 9
Congressional Relations, Drug Enforcement Administration, and suggested
that he respond to the House Select Committee on Assassinations request
for information on QJWIN independently,. I also indicated fo Melocik that
we had a similar request frora the Committee and would respond directly
to them, . .

16. (Unclassified ~ RSG) LIAISON Betsy Wolf and Ken Klein, ;
of the House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, visited Headquarters

. to review Agency material.

17. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Received a call from Bob Sutter, -
Congressional Research Service at the Library of Congress, who requested
two wall maps; one of. China (5015751-73) and one of Central Asia and the
Soviet Union (5019599- ~73). Both were forwarded to him this date.

18. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Received a call from Kathy Taylor,
Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, who wanted to inform me that she
was giving a Secret package to the afternoan courier for Mr. Bob Hepworth, ©
NFAC/CSS. I thanked her for calling.

19. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Hal Ford,
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who asked me to find out
the status of the report of the Agency's task force on the Frank Snepp
allegations,

  

INTER AL USE ONLY
