74-00000

a . .

on x ce _ oa t

REPRODUCTION
— PRORIBITIED.

 

.

3. The attached report is. not intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches to his memorandum. {I have prepared a paragraph~
by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article,
which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa-
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as
a memorandum if that is desired.)

' are Te SSRN SS

4. The point of the referenced memorandum is that’ i
consideration should be given now to "whether or not the artis
entixe matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This Alte
‘submission is designed to make it possible for you,..the

IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been
put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
“pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However. its contents qo
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must
: be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's. .
i - question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. Jt
seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
| his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
i the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-~
i cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest ,
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index ., T*
to facilitate reference to individual items. [NB: There. !°

is only one copy of this collection; this is it.]

i 5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken in

i °°" Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the

| Warren Commission public record. However, if was intro-
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The

i Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in

- the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in ;

i : Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact

that we had additional photographs of the same individual

| taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis

of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-

: clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to

: OSWALD and the assassination.

 

 

 

-  f ; .
; 6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
: graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are*-
od reproduced in the .collected documentation backing up the
narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
SECRET . 7

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
 

[roa-t01a6-10379]

 

SBE
. PRIBITED

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: ‘Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT :. Review of Agency Holdings regarding
; Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the
Warren Commission

REFERENCE : Letter dated 15 April 1975 by . ;
Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to
Mr. E. Henry “Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report)

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my.
inter’m memorandum of a few weeks ago.

2. he attachment is a detailed review iy, narrative,
chronological order - together with appropriate comment~
ary - of our extensive holdings on thé OSWALD case that
have -a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on/1, /4,;and @5 October 1963 of an
Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina-
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one of the photographs of the
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which.have now made this event a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed in the

narrative.

. : SECRET , _

Eh _arorr te sy ey

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
74-00000

“REPRODUCTION
.——— PRORIBITED

 

SECRET.

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photogsaphs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 ~ 1972 was actually shown, by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that
he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.)

7. It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to.
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this? material
to Mx. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could
be discussed and the question of “how?" and “how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding
that there are still sensitive aspects deriving from the

fact _that the operation which produced the photographs
was and as a consequence
. publication at this time would create additional problems

at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted that

. the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to
J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the
decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

 

_Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments: . —_
as stated :

SECRET

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
