 

 

+ nari
merely

       
     
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
 

      
 

Tne FBI report of? its daterviews of Ortiz, the SI investigator,
.. Gives. an excellent account of way the plot fell wpart after the ~
assassination took place. One of the assassins, Pedro Livio Cedeno,
was: cerlously wounded (probably. by | fire from his own caupanions).

\All of the assassins assembled at General Diaz' house after the

 

Killing. One of them called a friend, Dr. Robert Reid Cabral, to
treat Livio. Dr. Reid found him se badly injured that surgery would
be required. Reid ard two of the assassins took Livio to a hospital.
Walle in delirium be mmbled the nanes "de la Maza" ehd "Juan |
Tomas." The police immediately picked up two brothers of Antonio
de la Maza. Neither was personally involved in the Plot, but both
knew the details and the names of most of the assassins. General
Diaz, Antonio de la Maza, and Lieut. Garcia Guerrero vere killed -

resisting arrest. Aniama and Imbert went into hiding and survived.

 

The rest were caught ard interrogated followingtorture. AlL
confessed.

    
    
  

 

” the confessions led to sdenti fication vt persons who vere in
” er on the. fringes of the Political Group: General Roman and his
brother, Amiana Tio, General Garcia’ Urbaez, General Guarionex
Estrélla, Tomas Baez Diaz, Modesto Diaz, and Miguel Angel Baez Diaz. .

between

' the plotters and the U.S. Consulate. However, the SIM did not :

 

 

   

iy rang UR mE sea
74-0000

   

. discover the ilentities o? the political plott with wi

eo. Consulate was

 

have known th

 

were fairly widely imow to Bersons not actually members oP tt

% : appears to have been extelians compartmentation betveen the Political

4 ‘ . a ;
4 and the Action Groups--perzaps too much compar*tentation. Th
a assassination itsel? sa> well planned. Ceneral Diaz vas in over-

all charge of the operation, but de la Maza was the one who ata all

i
'
i
!
i
t
i
i

 

; of the work. Ee took three cars to a4 iocal garage and had the
i engines rebuilt so that the cars could reach speeds of 120 mph. .
: He had possession of the weapons from the U.S. Consulate, plus
i Oo Several of bis own. Ee and the other Farticipants took the cers |
7 i
° g . +6 the site selected for the xilling and conducted dry rums each
£ - night. Everything wes ready and the assassins were lying in wait

for Trujillo on the night of 23 May. At the last minute be decided

not to go.to San Cristchal tecause he wasn't feeling too well. The

 

3 . assassins continued their Gry mums each evening. After the assassina-
G tion was carried out, essentially as it had been Planned, the coup

a

Pa

that was to follov failed--is Fert because of bad duck, in pert because

of poor plarnicg, and in part because of too much compartmentation.

2 shealeter ingen ponent ames +

  

 

Bs seew

F3

 

 

at
  
  

  

 

Caliztez case; Euastar Tejeda; Roberto Pastoriza; and Pedro
Livio Celeno. The elz member, Manuel Caceres Tuati, vas in
Moca os. the sight of the 20th and saw none o? the actlos.

     
      
  
 

‘-he Political Group had a.less @istinct membership. :t
incluged Lufs Amiaca Tis, Modesto Digz, Cereral Juan Texus
Diaz, and several others. At the very top it had the support
of Geacral Toman Fernandes, Secretary of State for the Arzed
Forces, and his brother Bibin. .. 2... -

 
     
   
    
 

Tne over-all authority appears to: have centered prtaclpally vo : A “ a :
in General Diaz, probably the only ome weo had sufficleat j oF :
prestige to comaand authority. ..-.-

 

“\. fhe Action Group would remain in daily readiness. When | 4
information in the Palace indicated that Trujillo was going :
to drive toy Estancia Fundacion . . . Garcia Guerrero in the

Palace would infora the others by personal message. - + + + «

Tae expected messege frou Garcia Guerrero in the Palace
came to the patient plotters at seven o'clocs on the evening
of May 30. They were not fully prerared and coordinated. at
this moment, but the emotional and impetuous de la Maza &
threatened. to act by himself if the others lagged...ia.any.
event, the plan vent into execution. . ... . Each of then
bad his revolver or pistol, and de la Maza also had his own
saved-off shotgun and teo M-1 semiautcratic rifles. . 2. .« «+

 

_ The conspiracy began to come apart within an hour. Never
very professionally contrived, the plot was hastened prematurely
to its culmination by the impatience of de la Maza, and it was
now afflicted with bad luck and ineptitude. Immediately after
_ the assassination, the men of the Action Group were unable to

reach General Roman. ... «+ « Cas ae pany OS

 

 

The Political Group of the conspiracy never took up its
planned role. The Action Group scattered, leaving a trail as .
wide a3 a boulevard. Trujillo's body was. left in the trunk of . f
' Ge la Kaza's car, parked in the garege of Ceneral Tomas Diaz, .-
where the police found it in a few hours. The conspirators. —
were all hunted down very quickly, except for Anlana end
- Imbert, who maraged to conceal themselves for moaths until

the canger had passed. -

 

   

   

 

   

 

EPMCT.
ate
From the records, the course of

U.S. policy | with respect to the overthrow of Trujillo. We also can

ascertain from the files the rature and the extent of U.S. support”

tters,

of the plotters, including the passing to trem of veapons out cf the
U.S. Consulate.in Ciudad Trujille. What ve cannot discover. from the
files, despite quite massive documentation, is how the coup group
wes organized. The best single account ve find, and it is not wholly
accurate, is in a book by Robert Crassveller.* The main flaw in

: the story is its failure to identify the ‘Individuals with whon the

u.S. “Goverment vas ‘actually working. Excerpts follow:

qhe Rlot was organized on the basis of two groups of
conspirators linked together by a liaison that later proved
too fragile to bear the stresses laid upon it. Each group
had its purpose and its separate personel.

‘he function of the Action Group wis to assassinate
Trujillo and immediately present proof of its succes, in
the form of Trujillo's corpse, to the second group, the
Political Group. The latter would then launch a coup, ;
taking over the machinery of the government and the Armed:

. Forces.

i "the Action Group coasistea of eight men. “tt appears’ to

“have been organized originally ty Generel Antonio Inbert
Barreras and Salvador Estrelle. . .-. . . They were joined

" by Lieut. Amado Garcie Guerrerg, a member of the military
corps attached to Trujillo in the National Palace; Antonio
de la Maza, the brother of Octavio de la Maza, who had been
‘kddled by the goverment because of his involvement in the

* Rotert D. Crassveller, Trujillo: Te Lite end Tites ofa
- Caribbean Dictator (New Yors: MacMilzan Co., 1900

 
    
 

furnishing of weapons B38 2 symbol--scrething that:

     
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

tangible evidence of U.S. Support. Bissell reremt

to an indigenous group whose intended actions were in the U.S.

interest. Ee described the affair es "2 faizty noral operation

 

involving neetings, discussions, and formal approvals.” ve do not

have fire information as to whether or not any of the weapons

supplied by CIA vere actually used in the assassination of Trujillo.

Both Esterline and Hos belie they vere not. Bissell, nowever,
has ¢ & vague impressicn that one of them was.

“the Agency ‘officers most irmediately involved with the Plotters

are now widely: scattered. | vio ‘was chief of station:

until October 1960,. fs nov retired. [dvto vas chief

of station at the time of the assassination, is. Pe | a

5

resigned in 196
and is believed to be living in Puerto Rico-[ | the head-

quarters branch chie?, is a We elected not to call

back any of these people for interviews.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

While they might be able
en

HE

to the quite cosplete » record that appears ‘4a the EMDZED operational

files.

Agency activities aired at replacing the Trujitlo regine were

assigned the cryptonya EMDZED. One‘ cegnent of & D was known as

 

 

 

the cryptonys for the operation to rezove: \Trujilio by

 

- violent action. We nave reviewed the. voluminous ZMDEED files. Most
of this account is drawn frog them. Many of the more ‘signi ftcant
dociments were not put iato the EMDEED files ‘but were kept in a
private file ‘ty J.C. King. He made that file availnble to us.
We also have studied anotier ‘particularly useful document. The
Dominican Military Intelligence Service (sma) officer put in charge
dovestigation of the
of the/Prujillo assassination was a navy lieutenant named’ Ortiz: -
The Dominican Republic assigned his to its embassy in Ottawa in
‘November 1961 when the Trujillo family's attempt to regain Power
 fatled, ° The New York field office, of the Fal held extensive
interviews with hin from 6 April through 10 May 1962, The result
WES a massively-detat led, 182-page report on the plot and'on the —
assassination as reconstructed by the SIM. fron ite interrogations

of. the’ persons it apprebenced.

 
 

ak

 

 

 

sO Rafael “Or, was essacsinated at
2 about ten p.n. on the night o7 30 Way 1961. It was Trujillo's
custom to visit one of his mistresses at his ranch at San Cristobal

about cace a week. Cn most of his travels he rode in a Carysler

with bullet-proof glass and vith security guards riding in accompanying

 

ractice on his periodic trips to San

Cristobal and substituted a >

 

 

galy stereotyped pattern of action:
. after his nightly walk, he dicuissed his companions; changed into a
Khaki uniform; aad set out for San Cristovel in an unescorted 1957
Chevrolet, alvays driven by the saze chau?leur.

On the nignt of the slaying, the Chevrolet was intercepted on
a four-lane highvay on the outskirts of Ciudad Trujillo by efiznt

armed assassins in three cars. Trujillo was killed by gunfire, and

 

his body was renoved from the scene by the assassins. Trujillo's

Shee

chauffeur was seriously wounded, was left behind by the assassins,

and survived. All of the assassins escaped from the scene. CGne was
never caught and vas eventually granted amnesty. Two were killed

‘while resisting arrest. Tre others ...were arrested, confessed, .

and were later executed tefore casing to trial. About eight or nine

 

others, wao vere in on or kmev of the plot but did not pervicizate

 

in the actual assassination, were killed e in custcdy, walle

vesisting arrest, or by sufcide to avoid arrest and torture.

  

(Mote: We use the term “plotters” to refer to all of those involved
in this attenpt to overthreyv Trujillo. “issassias” refers to the
small group that actually did the killing.)

  

k

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

104-10214-10034

 

pam ea nee

        

a
)

Ce aw ne |

   

volvement

i
bb
"
{3

 

.
he
Ox

 

 

 

 

Farland replies that he could . 2... - + +
Farleod says the dissidents need guns
The U. is prepared to assist

   

rowing Trujillo .
lied che dissicents
eld rifles «2. ee ee

et Tearborn learns of plan ts assassinais
( Lm asks for sugmachine guns i
“Pearborn asxs for three 2O-caliter piswis
The plot to Kill Trujille et his mistress’ @
: COS protest restriction om pouchirng weapons
Hqs guidance cable on policy and objectives we ee ew we
Station asks permission to pass three carbines to dissidents
igs approves passing carbines 6 6 6 2 ee ee ee ee ee ee
Tre caroines are passed to the dissidents
. : Request for pouch waiver ref pouching summachine gums . + ++ ++ +
Submachine guns pouched
ms Pleas ?rom dissidents that subuachine guns be passed to them... -
-Hqos informs the station not repeat noc to pass subeachine gums -
_ Post-Pay of Pigs standdsm cable «6 6 eee ee ee ee we ee
Station acknowledges reseipt of submachine gms
Draft cable (not sent) arproving relesse cf sutmachine gums ....-
State Departcent disapproves passing subsacnice guns
The whereabouts of the three carbines . 2 - ee ee eee
Special Group confirms not passing subcachine guns to dissigents
Tae dissidents’ 2 tica plans are fitz. - + ee ew ee ee
U.S. policy coe 2 assassinatica

i
ys
E
fn}
ia

ha
°

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

  

Tearbermn and Fr a a a i?
Critic No. loon inatioa 53
Vice President Johnson asxs acout arms delivery . 2 + + ee ee ee 5h
Discovery of U.S. involvement with assassination group 55
Recepitulation vf arms passed or consicered for passing -. +... 59

    

Tae rotivations of

   

 

 
400000,

 

aan

  

Toere were reports in Ciudésd Trujillo az

 

U.S. Consulate ad teen to some way involved with

 

plotters.

i
d
'
i
i

 

Eventually, after the « viving plotters were granted amnesty,

many of the details came cut. Norman Call, a reporter with the

San Juan Star, wrote an article thar appeared in The

 

issue of 13 April 1963. Excerpts follow:

The assassination of the Dominican Republic's Rafael L.
: Trujillo was carried out with assistance from the US Central
: . Intelligence Agency. Amas for the May 30, 1961 Slaying of the
. 69-year-old dictator on a ‘onely stretch of highwayahear his
: capival were smuggled by tne CIA into the country at tae
‘ request of the assassins.

 

t ; Tne CIA began shipping arzs to the Dominican Republic in .
‘Ci. vot late 1980, following a series of talks between US Consul Henry

 

Dearborn, Chief Political Officer John Parfield of the US .
Consulate, and Luis Amiama Tio. Also involved in the plot was
Antonio Imbert, who had been Governor of Porto Plata Brovince.

talks continued between Dearbon, Parfield and leaders of the
anti-frujillo conspiracy. Toward the end of 1960, contact vas
established between Amiaaa and a CIA agent who... was
named Plato Cox.

q
i
{
‘
!
| As Trujillo's political and Mrancial problems deepened,
i
H
'
1

°

: The key Link between the assassins and the CIA in the arzs

io . shipments was‘a long-tine American civilian resident of Ciudad :

Lh . frujillo, Lorenzo Berry, otherwise know as "Wimpy," who operated

@ supermarket in a fashionable neighborhood where Trujillo also

lived. “Wimpy” was put under brief arrest after the xilling but

was later allowed to leave the country. -
The weapons vere imported in srall parts, to be assembled

later by the plotters, anong te ro

the supermarket arriving regularly in

 

grocery shipments for
ye capital's port. The

   

  

 

ere en Tamron
fee.
   
       

gua parts eacvered the Repudlic in sacially-carked food cans,
which were later turned over to the conspirators.

Plans 2or the intended assassination vere worked out during
the same-yeriod-in.weich the abortive assault.on Cuba was. being
prepared. Ecwever, when the CiA-crganized April 17,. 1961, —
invasion at tre Bay of Pigs failed and world attention was”
focused on Washington's complicity in that operation, a post-
ponement of the attempt on Trujillo's life was ordered because
of tne embarrassment enotner such failure might cause the
,United States. .But the order to hold up came too late. ‘The
needed weapdas were already in the hands of the conspirators; te
who refused eppeals iy Déarsorn and Barfield to delay the
_ assassination. They insisted oa moving at the first opportimity.
Talis came on May 30,-whea frujillo and his chauffeur drove out
into the coumtry in an. unescorted.1957 Chevrolet for a
rendezvous at a San Cristovtal estate, la Fundacion, with
Trujillo's 2)-year-o1d mistress, Mons sanchez.

    
     
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

It can be reported on excellent authority that close
associates of the slain dictator knew of the US role within
a few days following the Killing. . .

 
      
 

Dearborn, Barfieid-and Berry kad meanwhile been rushed ,
out of the Dosinican Republic by-US officials. . .. «+ + .
Since the ouster of the Trujillos, Serry ("wimpy") bas
returned to operate his handsomely appointed supermarket,
where he greets customers with cala and courtesy, as if
. Trujillo: had-never- lived...

pak nyetae

 

   
 
 
 
 
 

- We interviewed Richard Bissell (then DD/P), J. C. King (then |

 

“. Chief, WH Division), and J. D. Esterline (then Chief of Operations,

 

Wi Division). King recalls the Agency's role as veing limited to

: monitoring interzal plotting against the Trujillo regime "but, not

 

pu hing or instigating.” EsterLine, like King, recalls that the -

gency was not directly involved in coup plotting. He described the,- oo

    

AOR) ENESCO AM cee eA SAR TAN Nr Lats TEE GN EEE AEE

 
