    
 
  
 
  

elt
ee? Foret

6 Aaa

Sen ne a OE Le te mitt Lap tee oe

‘ “He tttiebawt

Mane 8

SOE BAE aS ee

Marshes

me tha! gar.

mo
s .
ate Areneevaiale, bcc ate esate ate canes

/9S fF

VBR -
+ - . . . br .
LSS potory S

Sapna emenen tk eng eite monte te ol

0) Aaa cna ea ac RSM MOAI 8 eam wp peme gacayaenineet tor eee cere ns mtn

Dehn » Ty §

        

areas c Tae

[os 7 Ye chi pe Peailwniae BN eee
ME eAMk Frokinl,
io SANMKARA Moral
pve ve o- £6 66 t.

  

  

ayy yp

aie args searineetann momen <0 8
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

POLE PES CAN 8 RIOGED
8Y QUALEEED MO DESK ONLY

 

pie R telephoned ne that he
MOKLL Prom Havene, 70
wanted 49 Knew: ZLL; and 9) whet
: 2 v O'SUDIELL cut oy
ie IT met wita
C'QURZLL hed identified

sociation.
ruse cover

i'a cackeround, it fore. ‘ ae was not voile to Pind
uid nct reaza\.J Vili, woo is uextisned in the ressege, O'CCUNEEL

yz.
sntorzea[is ARSOR thet sac
through goFage and Vi
telephone 3-4729 3-5753, Hevene. O'COr 4: inc delivered this
massece he did not wish to have anything further to do vith matter. . - '

ot : 2

3. Both\e <D}x30a ena Qn were eécie tc identify positively thet the ‘signature:
was that of GOCHAR. I¢ then”ceceme a question of whether or nct we wished to take
eny ection to assist in the 2scape of QDCHAR ir L As tel lephone
exchenzes with LEDAYOW during the nigat of Ju
going eheed wita an, citer to eztect the escape cf y i ani it was agreed. that
it vould te test ME(caua akbfchkucer to. er 23s quickly cs possible
and there to te pleced™in conte: rita mensers of the Havana Steticn te work out
the next coves. , i

&, (elke exafuju departed Miani in the late aftemocn of 13 July 1959.
They returned to Miemi’on the evening cl 19 July end reported thet everything” had
gore Very satisfactorily. ‘The detals of their contact with the Station end with
QDCHAR and the arrangzents cade with the Stetion for moving <DIEAR are reported
ia torresponsence fren the Havana Stetion. Sinllarly, the ammouncenent from Havana
thet QDCHAR would depart Havane 25 duly and az at Tema 27 Caly, and the initial -
errengenents Tor moving QDCEAR directly fro= to the Washinsten area are con-
tained in cable treffic. between H vena, “nd Nashington. :

. 5. QDCHAR arrived in Tanpa on schedule atoard the SS POATAR and, fs decordance
with prior arrangements made with Mr. GALVIN of the IciS, Tempe, ne was crqught from
the ship to the IIS offices. Tased on the instructions that GDCHAR was td be
handed over imediately into ny custody for transfer to the Bashington erer, Ié7S
prepsred a porole document in the neue cf JDGRIEZ + Gonez vhidh said
cniy thet he would appear for hearing at such tine as the ILUS called hin.
ho Josep BRATIGAN, who had arrived in Taapa the previous doy, was prepared to
escort QDCHAR to the Washington urea aboani en Eastern Airlines fliisht en the
afterncon of 27 July 1959.

Upen completion of I728 docunentaticn I took QDCHAR to vewammal roo
end left hin in his cere while I pirchesed clothinc, toilet octities, a small
suitcase, etc., ter QOCIUR. Ghortly vefore +t F gchediies departure, However,

meeived tarcuch Tan" 5 Sst ct the decision to transfer
he wes t> de held here
We were also infomed that : : S64 é VHS
enroute fron Washin-sten to Tanne of
heiding QDCHAN until he soul ‘
tyed 23 July. Since SRAGIGAN's services ve ager regice

 

“)/BR

 
[td 10467-10132] .
12.

 

, ‘we vg SECRET
: : iil  fwHEN FLED IN} oN
ge ree
@ ‘ ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET :
FROM: 7 NOE: In the ebsence of comments or mdcatiog of action
: tahea, tha cover theat will be desroyed whee the
@ document ia fed. :

Ribs H

ee een renee bat oA PRE OE ARNE AOE EME oa TPE nH

cE

La] “|
=, to No" _ [Rane wenmem| wee |
Pj | |
aL |
: &
TE = FEET alee |
at ttt |
i ee
(=r eey
WSO ET by yyaladd
“

Seiemrenenee ARRN ce ReRtn ey ott

=

Brens

eo

 

 
 

   

2 RIDJFI 1496) . ; ,
; “ 2261 G& Deda
¥ Te NUMEER : : a
en a 78(- 2597/16 |
: : bat CATE wmicROFiLMED COCUMENT ate j DOCUMENT ue
v 5647 | wow - 0088
 

 

CRORE eH eg RE TE Re we BO

 

Pe Rema: penenaad 0 map,

 

i
thet sane day for Washinztc=. DRAMWMIG&S's office =tzht ve nctified that his.
assistance © Was eXce. » He was most wiilics and cooperative t =
very effer in keeping <DCZAR at ease. j

  

7. Tt wedtnen agreeithet SADZULY ond Eve? vould rensin in tenpa
with SDCHAR through that + (25 oy) during which time they would have exple
5 m, thet I wuld return to Miami immediately to prepare
a Safchouse anZ to make tre necessary errengenents with JENS ard that SADELLY
wuld bring QDCSAR to Miemi on 29 July 1959. . 4
i
3. On the sorning o? 29 July, I informed Mr. Edward AHRENS, IelS Miexf,

_ What had texven vlace and tet QDCHAR would remain in this area and I would s#tke hin
evaiiable tc hin at any + that he wished. Ur. #Z3i0IS said he would ie: ithis
entirely to me and woul. pare to take the next steps in the IciS handling of
QDCHEAR at my ccuvenience. I also informed ODENVY end offered ‘then the orpemmtiy
to meet with QOCHAR. Th: 4 not yet received eny instructions from their Head-
quarters on this matter e.c felt that, since we had alrcedy conducted an interrogeticn,
they couid Gefer their meeting with QDCHAR until sccetime when he could te asae mede
more easily avaiisole, en evtitude which was particularly appreciated at this time
end in these circimstences.

  

   

 

9. I then merle apartment, tiuich fortunetely he hed lef for my
use, €5 the satekouse for .SCUZAR end SADELLY, end xatified SADELLY that he could
proceed as pienned on 29 They arrived in the evening of 29 July without
incident and were settled <

 

for the children to leave octa, a written * stabemess from QDCHAR granting
mission would te required. The obvious problem here was the risk of conf:
to the Cuban government thet <DCEAR was in the US, which might result in eking
the femily yrom leaving Cuce. At first it had been thought that this turn af events
would alarm GDCZAR, but he escepted the news with complete caln, saying thet he had
expected this t A2appen. 2 also said he did nct - eve that his stetus vith

the Cutan governcent would cause then to prevent his family from leaving. 19 order
to give this probiem thore.zh sonsidevstion, however, it was thousht best to have
Stenley R ZAIKA, who was in contact with QOCHAR's wixye and who had the complete
infcrmation: on the problea as a existed there, cone to Miami for a discussion.

 

 

lu. AEA errived on 39 Juiy 1959 in the afternoon. He confirmed te us the
problem as it had been previously outiined, and said that there seemed to >ejno
escape fron this requireze=’ ZiOKA aisc carried with hin a letter to <DCSAR
from his wife. in which she stated in effect that she did not. think there wesi any
seuse for great glam and coviousiy shared QDCHAR's own opinion that the covernment
wuld not act to prevent her end the children from Leaving the country notwithstand-
ing QDCHAR's status with the Cuban government. ZAZA hed also reported’ that! QDCHAR' s
wife was very much at ease and did not seen to be very worried aiLout this as a
probiem. GDCEAR was informed that this was a decision that he must make since the
risks were his. It was rather quickly agreed thet ve should proceed with the pre-
poration of a written statezent giving permission for his wife to obtain the? :
Hecessary Gocuments to transport the chlidren from Tuba at any time and to % ever
country she wished which 224A covld take back with hin.

 

12. Having reached this decision throuch which the Cutan government would be
specifically yut on notice that QDCHAR is in the US, taere was no longer eny necessity
for holding hin in the safeasuse. I informed Mr. ASRENS irmediately that \2CHAR

- would be presented to thes the next day, 31 July 1959, whereupon he would assume a

rousine status. AIGEIS vas told thet althouch we had chosen to surface QDCHAR at
this tine, we stiit wese encious to aveld any publicity, that we had reeson tp believe
“th an ioresmment bas 6 ed for qite a long time thet .DIAR was in tae) US,

 

     

the
and thet wu waid preter thot this Lupressica be maintained. AILS fully sppre-
cinted this cic Kindly not to nuke any statements whatsoever aoput QDCEAR,
to iseue his parele dovuent in the sexe none of JDUIES y' Gomgz
ratty + Ploced Lau file in lis own restricted giles so that

it eould not te disvussed cy anyone in ids but nicselr. i

 

        

13. These recaine! m only cne problem which was to essist QDCHAR Fis leaming
the vhereaberts cf .DDLAS.. de hed with hin only an address which he told

 

V3 PREVOUS EOTIOM
RAE fomNS

. . . . i
CONTINUA’ oF “ DISPATCR SF mack AND NO. / ;
_OSPATCH i ULMA-3 H

 
 

  

ne eon

ee eee ne, Enter ern cancers

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

I to1d 2 Obl I oad
3 chet PICHIA sight se iiving
ed thet there is no address

end there is no real estate

Brent named Us listed 23 such. I was, howe ous to find QDETAS
t sez a). enxtous +: ~aestabitsa seatact
. ry of CUTEAR to hone of th: tS agencies who might
morally ne expected to miw she vhereczouts ef sath @ person aid in fact know

2 DBIAS wes. (Several 22 who obvicusiy resi Drew Pearson! s colum said

thought he was in Teszes}. relustentiy turned to Captain Lee NAPIER of |
dani Police Detective F who did imcw where ae was and save me the téle-

2 and address and got wird QDSIAS that I wes soning to see bin. I found
QDEIAS Living with Ricardo de LORIB in a scali nvsse om the far end of Key Biscayne.
Waen I arrived, .D2TAS dic xc* show any particuler ectimisiesm over seehg ne sgein,

3% als attitude changed a:ccgtiy when I inforced him saat IT hec gotten QDCHAR
for nin and would uring bic out that evening. i

2k. GDCEAR was taken co 12i8 on the afterncon c2 31 July shere he was .
immediately ; i ‘vz, which normally requires an interve) of 3-4 days,
end the whole process coz; red on thet cne visit. I aiso intre<
agent of ODSITY end they s@4= their errencements for interview
3 Acgust. (GDTEAR leter reported to me that this imerview hed
His written permission fer tis wife to reve the chiliren was cotarized by a clerk
in GDENVY. :

15. I then took QDTES2 out to Key Biscayne to De LORIE's bcuse and arrived :
to find the whole entourese {i.e., in addition to De LORIE and GDSIAS and their-

_ wives, De LORIE's children exd a tattery of "crieécs”) wes packei end ready to”

 

his fenily.”

 

move. During my visit in the morning I had not sposen with De LORTS and meybe |
QSIAS wes too excited to nection this little matter of moving. In eny case,’
De LORLf, who cuvicusly is the brainiest of the grovs, informed =e of the obvious
thinz--that they were movinz--end readiiy cffered se their new esdress. The .
address is S25 SW hand Street, Miami 5, which De Lrg said “they” ned just ‘ought.
inter oh rayne they the $9033 that ODBIAS got
frea Ais article - which “he zidentally proudly showei me. I hed the impression
that GDBIAS ficis that publicity very heady stuff.) In any case, I spoke with
the.taree of them together md briefiy zeferred to = desire to continue contact
with them end sy. feeling thes we could wrk effectively tegether. This brought
a nodding of beads end an ezparent eazerness to G2 sce 4DCHAR wes instructed. to
inform me as soon + adghey oct2in a telephone at this -ev address, which they didn't
expect was going to ce cefcre 5 Ausust. It is not pcssible to tell at this time
what sort of cosperation ve are going to get from this trio, cut I think GDCHAR
right be counted on to maintain contest. At a ninimm he wili ve mainta
eclese contact so long as ve are in the cest positicn to help with his problea with
. i,

16. AS quickly as possfole I would ike to have sent to se the materiel
which SADELLY conpeterty developed with QDCEAR. It 1s my plan then to attenpt
to expand and e this together with QDCHAR, QO3iAS, and De 1OXIE, after vhich
46 mizht ve weil. +o go cver it with the perscnne} of the Havana Station to dcite:mine
how these pecp.s: might ve best used and the vest eppzoach to reeciing the tayeete
that can be. ses URe.

.

: . |

SFOS,
Fa 3! MA eNO 1
weit ARE O8SOUTE

 

A

 

 
