74-0000

13 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Inspector General

 

FROM
Group

SUBJECT : Congressional Investigations of the Agency

1. Per our discussion, I would like to throw out the
following thoughts with relation to establishing a set of
procedures to handle requests from congressional committees
for information, with specific reference to the newly formed
House Committee to investigate the assassination of President
Kennedy, et al.:

a. All requests from Congressional committees
should be directed to a given focal point within
the Agency. Any requests levied directly on any
other component should not be accepted, and the
requester should be referred to the focal point.

b. The focal point should initially be com-
prised of Agency officers who have the benefit of
previous experience in dealing with congressional
investigations, and the assignment of these
officers should remain reasonably stable in order
to capitalize on this experience factor. This
would, inevitably, require a rather long overlap
prior to any reassignments.

c. An action unit within each directorate
be officially designated to handle congressional
inquiries of this nature (I believe this has
already been accomplished) and again, where
possible, the experience factor should be taken
into consideration.

d. All requests received by the focal point
should be directed, in writing, to the appropriate
action units within the various directorates, (A
form similar to that used by the Review Staff
would be appropriate.)
[ra-10006-10251
“] UNCLASSIFIED. = [7 INTERNAL . - CO” IDENTIAL [] SECRET
JSE_ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

SUBJECT: (Optjoagl)

Congressional Investigations of the Agency
EXTENSION

Security Analysis Gapup 6009 13 October 1976

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE
building) OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS | to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
FORWARDED

7, | =|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

iG
Deputy Inspector Gen

(er)
25 24 ‘,

 

ms FE will ger
back fo me
Re. tla Z

 

 

Rle- tn Gre Ae |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rom TO “EE ] SECRET [7] CONFIDENTIAL [] INTERNAL = 7] UNCLASSIFIED
74-00000

e. The Review Staff Registry (now under
the control of the Executive Registry) be reacti-
vated and placed under the direct control of the
focal point. Two registry officers be assigned
and slotted to this registry, and for the immediate
future it would be preferable if the two officers
formerly assigned to the Review Staff Registry
be utilized.

f. The newly designated Registry should
then keep complete records on the following: an

(1) Copies of all incoming congressional
requests.

(2) Copies of the focal point's dissemi-
nation of the request to the various action
units within the Agency.

(3) Copies of all responses received #F (rem
the action units.

(4) Copies of the final response to the
congressional committee.

(5) Records pertaining to any interviews
of current Agency employees by a congressional
committeeyor staff of that committee.

genset

(6) Records pertaining to any material
reviewed at the Agency by the staff or members
of a congressional committee.

(7) Maintain an adequate index to the
above materials, which would preferably allow
for retrieval on the basis of date, subject
matter, and/or requesting committee.

2. As you know, the above suggestions represent my own
personal views, but I feel strongly that we are heading down a
path leading to the total disregard of all knowledge we have
gained during the last two years of extensive outside investi-
gation of the Agency. Since it is clear that these investigations
 

will continue for the foreseeable future, it would seem to me
that we must fall back to our earlier posture of setting up a
unique and separate organization within the Agency to handle
these inquiries. The Review Staff was formed for this purpose,
and I think a similar staff is required at this time.

 

 

 
