 

 
  
   
     
 
      
        
  
   
      
    
    
 
    
    
 

whe

Bc jas cotrrd eoncvnat tapresced with tite aremurcs oc 5 wegested baat ta
algut use vhatewr inflecee be nao te uaflizcre aoe le ateg Chomes, wer
he Caocribed a being coatitete te Gew Tort asi fejis seed te toe points of
threats eulsice, to Ureak sway frog the oc ivicas ap 3B sha tiv.

   

Be Rejas teen begun te cpect. af che biol: ct. ereoces botwoun agais
. Wied be Calis tae young revolticmarias, mene, tes ceiginas 26s20af ely
' Kovemsnt peayle, api the politaces, eure sz Gnks . -aatbes Artage, 66 al,
“ Whem they refer to as “Los Viejos*. Tre pours res. iuntonaries fee) that:
With “Los Viejas" ta power trat Cube will sit ‘e bockwards toward the old
political regime apd 38at thes Matter ere oe l> ¢isg Lip service to the
preposition that the ari¢ini( aime af the revsiovicn aust go furwerd bat
witheut Cestre end, & tiarsa, sithoat agy Cum ast influesees Rojas -
@urioasly referred wt thee pol.ticea fa te PS oe betug Seo fay bo the
Pignt. I said thy this view of then vas ecapletely comcrury to tho view
el4 by most vie cumsider tm to be Liberals stoaiderably fer te abe
left. 1 added that 1f these peczle were ary eve to the left, they wold

 

    

 
 

  

 
 

30 @ source Of seriows worry to the 0. J. dutsencs. Hojas changed the
id : - een ye ee coe ee

      
  
 
    
   
    
    
        
      
     
         
 
        
    
    
   
     
   
      
          
      

 
   

Be wanted thea to know If it wali be poeeible for the UW. Be
Governasst to lsat its caprart te aore than one group. Whee I reapenicd
that the U. 8. Governzent we not supporting any group, Rojas just ehrneged.
Be, vout cu to cay thet 2f awzpors could be Ziven to doiyidenle ouch ae
the miiftary types be hed wenticaey yrevicavin wut proses to the Alina,
for exemple, as @ vbole orcratentica (cies of cords Aguere piteht), that
thie would not only atin tue eervica., of very vatrabla people im tha right
ageinot Cestro tat might 6a7-tin aswe of peasticas stehd ity for the futere,
He peinted oxt that tf tibs young revolutionaries wie are now resected by the
FED ere stifled fa thoin erforte tc coutriinta ia abe entiswabtre oteeggle,
Shey vila vepresont o tunllte’n asti-Ansrlean Corer eloment rer the Tuvure,
which could bo vory dagigiag to 0. 5, / a relate,  X Qbank there is 6
fair encast of eubstames Gu thie emunsst rad T tele Ain 6a. In ony ena,
Rojee wie giver the vigtion nome. 4, Inve seemxi fe thaag exile effatra
(which, ef courne, Ye vans Bud Lay) nod eéviee wat he do whatever rs can
te bring aheut unity ca bdrm several groape. de wan told thet the PAD. .
Appoares to be She jroup Tales dad the qvestest vryanization and greatest.
eyparent poteutinl fom ovecoos, Gas Coat ai). tonoasued. weuld be wall ade |
vived ta aGoompt (ete pevre with La. Nejaw sutd thet he had & strong
fegifng that unity tm thie basin was Fo% poset
the fealing smeng the yours reyeletiosse
gnetiamily epatest the PFD, Be saié be thoighs menace Fog Levolatdonarlee
foal thab thoy have kaon wurmsi ouh Ly ett’. saskina politiecs, and their
viele oud Contsste in tho fe 5. Governmant imve tacued thelr kacka and |
thenbres’ tong, Rowacee of thig they. anv ouffaring bisterases end dies

3 hus Losers Bojac then cengested Coat perhops 3 would be ediling to
aprang: @ sinTiag for hin with sooo representative of the FAR, cresifieatly
this wee nee Ye ie soe of tos five peiosiynls, vag couls weet with ee in
op etteaph he reties Chair dAfturenenr 49! reexteh\ien selaatonships and .
wooperation with the FM. F Qold hts ties. bie ean an dubereating eugguotion
bat 2 Shetght £6 tre med posaidle tweak ac ste.U, 8, Government, vhile

  

 
 
  
  

  

 

  

  
 

   

   

 

wisi ga i pottoretent

 

 

 
 

 

   

  
   

| CURIE 8 Report ef kesting with Gargic Rojes

  
     

 

eeveral heure in the SheretenoCerlten Zoseh

e Sajea begua eer ccavereation with a lengtiy diseourae
& pictare of himself os a coxplete Bestral arang

Le ereups, he bot betaz © eenbor of sny group and

  

   
 
   
 
    
  
  

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

Vath weve exgelied teen tha FRO, vee in 1:
Rojne apoke af Length sesat tie 4:
Sellad with @ roster ef these opie te ter
loadly Innemted the feeb that a eevies af Sen, pertioniar hy
“ @f Oke Baldtars expe, are being waahed as a YOOULA OF theee O1fferenaag
waleb extet betecsn the Yeung Puvelationavias aod ghy FD, 89 ho pub bee
Z Gu14 him hag § ogreaé with bin tug thes I thoewht that the aalundas

 

  
 
    
    

caer 39 that Qhew world
We Gorepted e24 thete es o Sood Ube RKranoleg
fend, Giie Gies, ge uh. (Preaecstly, Rajes
ated is ais see”
tag Vietintsas oe eget Seepis ag
sare Of Chete oc livaca) laglvasiane ae velog
nbd Peveins and polltionk uargoining fat:

feetien thes
fais

 

RETURN TO ClAygp
Background Use Only
_ Do Net Reproduce

i
i
i

   

 

apenecdaee!
 

 

   

 
     

26 eminiatas e camtinnoes interest is there aftaizy ani ass eecestena)
eegtagt vith tha ocveral aresps, te cot and wi!) ose becene fovalved . :
Rajes sais be knows this to be extrwe on! he les) sered ab the insistence :
Chad tha 0. 8. Govermarus fe moa opocaarlag the YES, if ede tae counter.
Saggeetian to him that be imtuce hip friguws, e.g. Joie Ageery aad Lorie, ‘
%o spprench the W'D again ex4 ettexyt op their we so mage eGHD nee cmotee
‘tion. Tn <aiag 20, I suggeeted toey aight consiicy omtaliping tle services
ef em oléer, sere cophicticated, mature inj ivizes), ‘aan abey could truant
te represent thea in theese overtures to the FRU, £

. + 2 eaié 2 thomne thet :
Qhe Mii‘ difficelties, fer maple, oteu fron poar reprasentetiate I

~ Welieve that Rojee immediately mentally cast bicseif in this role. Ga

         
           
       
      
       
   
       
      
      

 

 

  

     

HAS Be Rojas sais that ho wns plenning te otay tn Kien only a few dayo,
after viieb be would reterna te London, He said Surtuer thes if as 6
Feoult of his vieit here ha became comviaces tuat Se eoold eantribate
Gdvatentinlly te this Cuban exile situntion in tne tt, Bey bs vosls reture

ews? to fins enployment

&& Riesd be etated be Wilh ctay with Lirte, shoe pov phone saaber

    

 

    

covts thifaneetnecb e

 

 

 

 

 
