74-0000

 

. foreign nov

' with Cuban officials accretited to the. Jiu.

 

 

. -23 ; .
nots no[615]of 19 decevber 4274.

HICOLE seule

4. SeULe left Havana for Madrid and London on 9, ‘Becenber y

flying by Air Cubana at une invitation of the Cuban Govern~—

nent: who 2ls0-said for her fare from Lina to Havunide he
was of course the guest of the Cubana curing the month she
spent here; a car and a NINELs “chaperone” were at her —
constant disvosal. She war, towever, far from belur

-enbarrased by those attantiona and evidently considered

then no moxe than her due. since ghe was, in effect, worklog —
‘for the Cubans theaselves rather than on behalf of any .

  
 

: ae : “E found SSULe’ treonsistest in her deseription of ‘how

she had covered. her tracks. ta. uike sure. that. her Cuba. visit:
would not cose.te the attention. of the Amerioam: authorities.

' fhe first tine we met she clained that the arranresents Ior

her travel hed been made in virtually clandestine conditions..

she was anyway -
going to Brazil end therefore selected the Lina-iiavana route.
as her way into Vubday. ag she explained, the cuban: inaisration |
authoritics wera briefed not to nark her passporte he - oO
hopéd that by followins a devisus routesout of Cuba, she could .
eventually arrive in the Jtatas without arousing suspicions. -

 

-about where sne had been im the previous two. months, But,
. slightly contradicting this. arparent concern. to. coacaal her

Cubs visit she sdnivted -on-anolher occarloa that’ it wis more
than :robable that the CIs would ruuble her and indeed, they

/ would know of her intention to come to tuba sines she had

openly requested permission to travel frou the stato. Departuent. °-
Her‘ ewpplication had been refused, which, while it cid not -
surprise her, confirned nor view thet the amerie:n authorities .-.
were determined te victinise ser beceuse of her political

views: . certain other cstecories of Americus were being

' allowed by the state vopartaent to travel to Cuba.

3. I¢ was évijont frea-scUIC's own mddlcd ond confused —
locis thet she is uotivated by a profound and: almost.

owitrlolic hatred of; as She put it, tha Us Government’ ond -

its agencies... the reneatedly denigrated her Us citizenship, .

‘gleiain: that it was the result of “an. accident of birta*.
She insisted that in every other respect except her birth

certificate che was iatin American _(Srasilian) and not:
Anerican, fer referc:nces to her gm motier seemed also.
to be slivhtly contemptuous; clearly her strongest =
attachnent isto her futher whon she described do tho only
exception in "a family of fascists"... the meaber of the
fanily who appearsi to be her pet hate. was a grandfather
resident in Brazil who worked for the Uercédes Bens coapany
‘and had som@ résponsibility for the production of napalie
fo judse froa the frequency with waich she discussed her
father, I sho:ld say he has been the strongest Juftlucuss
on ner, they share such the sane politic:1 vlewsoint and

 

. . eecording to v.ULG it was her futher's growing eislike of

. —fthessees )

   
[toe toto-t0a5e

SECRET.
No: {ss09]
~ Date: 31 December 1974

 

 

T

We attach nese Qumacanen |
eed” oes wo OS
‘

i

 

 

 

ss PEA SH a ear 88 mn ee = : neta ew

   

ground Use ‘Oni

; oe, CC _ Back lonty
Ca — — ee a a an "Do Nor Rosfedica
   

#

the New York Times' political position which persuaced
him to resign and follow his own bent as a fraclance.e.. -
They botn believed that a journalist should express his
own "personal" views instead of tiose of a particular —
newspapere ; :

4, hoe abuse and vituperation which 52ULG poured out _
agalast the Us seemed ag illogical and ill-founced as hor _
unguestioning assumption thet everything about the Cuban
system represented the nearest thit himan society had

' gome to Utoria. Her naive enthusiasm for vhat she was
shown in Cuba, and her dogmatic endorsement of it all,
excluged any possibility of her reachiug an objective,

| assessment. £ yp example, the «oder Popular, systen

“. which she visited had fired hen. imagination ani azhe

‘vefusea to consider any of-the sore’ nepative aspects which -

; ht have implied. criticism of the vuban cubnoritiess. .
_ Yo aay care to note that. she: intends: to: publish-an .

article on Foder ¥opular in sardve magazine (I would” 9

_-be interested to see a copy). - ee
5... AS you Gey imow’SZULC was divorced (or aeparated). ©
fron Surart Blod0r in 1972 after only 2 years of narrLesee,
Her husbund, she said, was a case for a psychoanalyst und

-. had needei a nother rather than-a. wife; /.5.ULG still seomed -

to be confused uni depressed over ths. sarriage altnouch 2

" wnderstand that she had taken the décision to-end it a
- Herself, Her educational buckyround.. seers tovheve heen
vory viried; “apart: froa’ the entablicnaints: nontioned’ in...
our traces she said ghe had attendsd the sritish school _

. Rio de Janeixo (at. which she picked .up-a phoney waslish. -
“aceent she can still assume) and Berkeley University.

 

   

6. ‘I doubt whether the dividends frou her visit were a8 -

- good as she had expected. At our first. encounter im the. -

aprertuent of Oleude REGIN she uade extravagant cleiss:
about. her mission «bich. sho interpreted as being to assist
the Cubans in uncovering information on CIA intelligence,
activity on the island and -to: penetrate: tae foreign and
Giplomitic community, for thin purseses (it may seen-

| renarkable! that ‘she should have heen so-indiserects but.
-I think the explanation lies prinarily.in her naivete

and ready assumption of a sympathetic audience, in a

- desire to impress and a loquacity induced. eitner by :
alcohol or possibly by drugs of sone kind.) It never:

_ seemed to occur to her for a xomernt that io talking so”
openly about the pursose of her visit she was’ in effect’
Dlowins herself,. However, unless she leurned prester
discretion during the four weeks she was here it would
aprear unlikely that she. cane anywhere new realising her
intuntions. «nen we met on % Lecenber suc told ne :
spontaneously (after several stiff .rum coliins') that ;
althourh she bad at lsat succeede:. in making contact with
Cuban intelli:nnce officers they were youn: and inexverioncel
and were not at a nish enough level for the discussions .~

[shO.soee .

 

 

 

oe
74-0000

.

she wished to have. She couplained that she had upent
too much tiwe with UINaLXx officials who had no real idea
of the zwin purpose of the vi sit and it hai tuken asout
two weeks to cet through te a yerson with the asprovrkate _
responsibilities. Kow that ahe was in touch with tais
sodividual she had asked for a ueeting with Manuel
FISEIHO. (I Go not know whether she saw PINEIRO before
she left, but I think it is unlikely). Up to that point
&2ULG bad passed the Cubany “useful" material on. CLA
Operations (mainly in Latin America) but. had received
very little in return. She was rather distressed by this
2usk of reciprocity, pointins out to me that she was after
., ell on the Cubans! side and was offering then the -
poortunity'to embarrass: tha-Anericuns- by publiesti-on-of
. dznagins materiale: Owever, juicing £roz her ouphoria
. when I saw-her-vory-briefly on. 7 Jecenber. che -may- perhaps.
have. received: something fur ether, from. the Cubanae ;

 

 

Go ‘In any cases. it seems she may have been. ‘Less active.
_on the intelligence: front than she had expected snd ao far
-, ‘ag. L/know she had little or no contact with nenbers of the
. ddplouatic conaunity. ; Hueh of her tine vas -ccent- outside
. Havana visiting the @roviness and in particular Hatanzas |
where she Was. allowed a detailed: look’ at toder Popular. Lo

“8, B3ULO intends to come back to Cuba in 1995 for the “
fizet Vongress: of the vuban, Conmunist 3 cartye:

 

   
