13-00000 | .

  
  

Soviet Embassy.- 15-60-55.-. Se
27 Sept 63.- ——- -

134-N8.—-T128-
0900-2114 hrs.

>

 

   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

395- (609m... OV. — From the Cuban Consulate- Says that there is an
“American here who has requested a transit visa for Cuba because
- he is going to the USSR, OV. - Wants to know with whom he (American) |
“spoke at the Soviet imbassy tecuase she (OV) had sent him over to
them thinking that if the Soviets approved the visa then the Cubans
. would give him one without anymore processing - only advising the
Emmigration of Cuba. OV - wants to know with whom he (American)
spoke since he himself doen't know either and he was told that there
were no problems. IV. ~ asks that OV. wait a minute. 404. 410
OV is SILVIA DURAN of the Cuban Consulate and explains the same to
the other IV. This one tells her to leave her name and number so':
& he can call her. -SILEIA gives it to him along with the tel, num.
11-28-47.~ Silvia says as a personal thing thet she has moved and
that she has not advised about her changezof address and will not
receive the Bulletin and she can advise them now. IV. asks that she
* call KOUKHARSNKO in order to change the address, and then asks for
' the name of the Cultural Attache. SILVIA says it is TERSSA PROENZA
' whose number is Meas 26. 1. thanks her.-- 435-~

 

 
13-00000

  
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 

 

ISAT ADA A
. Pan
27 septicnbae OG,

(ors lhe

sees,

Entrada.- Me del Can. h

 

 

do Guba, Gico que esta alif .-

 

eee

 

 

“ee UN cdudadacda fuardeano, ig wan a solicitar “una _yisa para Cu
on vednsito porque Va pans. & Ulos y ontoncos quiere saber cor

 

. quien habia hvablacio porque 1! Lo mands. con ellos do'la Embaj

_ da. rusa dicicndole que si ocuiles ic hacian o aceoptaban la visa

 

‘quo ontonces ellos Los‘ eub..05 sambion se la daban sin maa =
tramites nadanas avisaride . Emicvacidédn ean Cuua, y quiora saber

con quien Nablé p orqgue O1 “lca cue no sabo tanpoceo con que ~-

 

persona y que le dijoron quc si quo te tenia problema. HD le
- ‘Kio aP os SILVIA DURAN del

" Gonsulado do Cuba y explica-Lo mismo: a otro WD. Este le dice

 

pide ospero un mouanta. 40

  

que lo dojo au teleLons y mi novibre para quo despucs le Llamen
csoerio ol telefono 11“28-47,— Y que

aprovecha cono coun personal, dae que olla so cambio de domicili

 

“SILVIA so lo proporciona ash

y-no- ha podido ave sar: ‘para cue Le envion el boletin Yy que ahor
sé la puede dar. im le pies eine Liane a KOUKILARENICO para que 1
-de su cambio, xy ‘pide le de cl nuibra doe lao Consejero o Agregad
: . Culbual.. SILVIA dice. que haa : PURESA PROENZA y le Liaman
al 1-13-26. HD que mraciacs .~- 35-e

   

      
   
 

 

A telephone call to the Soviet Embassy made at
1605 hours on 27 September 1963 by Silvia DURAN
ef the Ouban ‘Enbassy poying there was an Americ.
itisen at. the Cuban Enbassy requesting a Cuban
‘yisa in‘transit to thé USSR. . She was asked to
Leave her telephone numibex (11-28-47) i

     
 
   

      
  

      
13-00000

    
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
   

SMATADA RUGA. = 25-60-5509 od

(27 soptioenbre 032-0

 

ee eRe LB kG,

Entrada.e- LO57 hrsen TV prenunta pooel Cénsul. ID que no

 

esta. IW quo necesita sacar wins AG para an a Odesa. HD quo

    

liane a las once +
te Ben

 

taeda. ie ae hasta que horas. HD le cuelrga.

(> Atbachseat as.

. A telephone call to the Soviet Embassy

<@ at 1037 hours on 27 Septexber 1983
& man outside (Hombre. Fuera "HEY to.
e Dentro "HD"), The man catside
. ks needed “unas visas" to ~o to.
SSA, oo :

   
  

 

 
   
13-00000

   
   
 
  
  

Chay; he asks where she is going to stay now, and LUISA comments that now

 
  
 
   
  

she plans to move tonight to the house of the doctor (female). HE asks i2 they
know averything now, and WISa says yes, but doesn't know how the thing Is, or if
ghey will have to stay in the onbassy, however believes tat today it will not be
-possibls, because everyone has gone to the airport and the embessy hes no car,
“however, possibly tomorrow morning Insteed of going to the study circle, she will
nove. i: men he will call her tomorrow, LUISA: To try. the enbassy or at the
house, since if they will not stay at the eubessy, she vill go home where she will

be at about 10. HP accepts.

 

 
13-00000 ‘

LP oasis LISA if she has | heard the latest news and LUISA, in-a joking tone says,
“Yes, of course, I lmew almost before KEDIEDY". HF aniles and coments that is
very ‘waa that at first they thought at had been one of. the veectlonary extrenists
who vere against integration end thet, bub 1t seams tint they aggrehended a type who
is nothing more thea the presidsnt of one of the comittees of the Fair Play for
Cuba. LUISA: That she. knew this also. Hf: That nothing has been confixasd yst,
tut it seems...that the me who did it, Was crazy, independertly of the fact. that
this could have been said about KANEDY "given the international ¢ onditions and
tha internal conditions of the United States, well..." WUISA: And externally,
principally. “BPs That's why I say, internationslly...4% seemed quite affected:
and they can't go through a great change, with a change of President or something
“of that sort; above all, that...LUISA: Interrupts and asks i? It was a gringo that
killed him and HF says yes, bus sald that he hed been in Russia, and that he wanted
‘to become a Russian eitizen, but Russia bad not wanted to nationalize him...
LUISA is surprised and, says “Listen - ‘they really know things therei" HF: Yes:
‘that he knows Fiissian very well and besides this type had gone with ‘Flael's forces
to the Sierra, or wanted to go, something Lite that. - vho knows how it vas. EOIGA:
' Pretty sertous. Hi? ‘Quite a bit; he asks what else she baa learned and LUISA
says just about that, that they learned abort it a little while ago and ‘hey arose
. HP: That it's ell very bad, that he was eating with some friends and commenting on
| the Revista Politica which had just cone out» whan somecne cane and gave then the
news; that he was surprised and thought he was joking. DUISA: Taset she had

keen ooking at the > magazine, that the courade had ‘brought it to hi BP: that

 
13-00000

  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
 

‘iis frtend commented that a Mexican had killed hin, that suldsnly he had realized

that the United States had taken Texas Prom us and ont of revenge killed the Fr President ; i

that it was all a joke, but they did not believe it until he told them to tum on

the radio; that's what they dia and they learned about it; that the last he bad
heard, a moment ago, was that ‘that type is one OSWALD, that it ia believed that
this is the one, but he has not confessed anything... LUISA: But they already
kmow that he speaks Russian and belongs to the Pro-Cuba Committee: that they
already imow that he wantea to nationalize himsel?, but he has not confessed.
EF says she is right, adding thet it could be that they tried ta find some let's
say solution from him, because.. .LUISA after asking hin to vait a mimite, asks hin
. _ to go cn. HF: We think that 1f it bad been or § had seemed... olic or had been
ove of the sogregationists or against integration who had killed Kennedy, then
“there Wads. ist's ay, the possibility that n sort. of civil war “would arise in the
“Untted States; . that contradictions: would be sharpened, the critical stiuetion the _
country 1s going through, then ve were commenting here, that they found a reselu-.
tion in this type, ‘no? More international; - they will find it or ‘it vas trus,who
‘knows; | let's see what happens. LUISA sedles and asks vhat will fa pyen. HP:
Who knows. LUISA: Imagine, ona, tye, three and now, that makes three (she lauget)
. Bs i think that it wilh be the topis of the day at that party of SLLVIA's.
ZUISA: hay suspeniea it because they could not go. HP asks why, ‘era LUISA says
“oo thet after they con say that ve are observing the death of KENNEDY, then we
socke with SYLVEA end she ngreed to suspend 1t and leave tt until next week, but £%
will not coincide’ with the burial (che Jeughs)". “That” has to be taken into |-{.
“necount. IUESA: That {will be after the aoumning end sll of that nonsense eo

 
‘

 
   
 

Qovbdeus Yor loving beer.

 

tas Line, ne kas not done so

 

late ia callin ng nim, Lut because of

 

until now., He adds tiat "I spoke with thi S$ po.com ant Gla net add wy ching important

7
ha what qT nave elrea: y informed aad whieh T iicd voare.lly. Aad with respect to

 

the conered e point wi.ich you asked me about, thet there was no offer of any kind”.

"ah, L had

 

Dorticoss "no... L wasn't asking about en offen"

understoo? that: with the confusion of the...” Uartions: “no, I was veféering as to

j :
whethex they had threatened ber 50 that Bbhe would =

 

statement that the Consulate

‘bed soo given 1 money to the ‘man...that American... vundevstand?” Hernendesz Armas: “ah,

no, no; n0, not at any moment", Dorticos: Onsteing of that?” Hernerdez Armas: "

No,

 

no, that bothing ebsolutely was given to her.. .rather they (enderezar - straightened. cut?)
‘wie the

the intorrogntion..«." Dorticos: "then we. can cD slong, gunz version of deex your

   

; fnformationt” Hernandes Armes: Wes, Sx. Presidente, of course", ‘Dorticos: "then
¥

 

    

   

nothing more of, _Amportance? Hernandez Armas: No, nothing Amportent. . .zx anyway,

      
 

: a
I an sotndl to submit. soon a draft of all. he details, beczuse there are obher details
il
of. minor ltpoztance, end others of none’ at ‘all, bub contained in the 8 tetement....

  

and I neve eskea her to make: me a Renita draft ag prolific as possible to Bunt it.
: 4

   

  
 
 

: |
at the aii opportunity"

   

LaWblnag

  
    
 

for FOIA Review 0 on

 

  
  

| _Jrasver pencrany
eo RETANET

| er
Chia

1 Eaten cr
: oom a
: BAL R
7 zo (a) mE
rs I

08 FNS

  

  
       
  
104-10433-10026 ‘ .

 

 

 

ah

   
    
  
 

"eS

 

133 - 594 None

Disposition ~ This ‘document was denied The document consists -

entirely of reports prepared by(a foreign. intelligence ‘Service| with
‘accompanying translations of the documents into English. The document also

'
i
|
“{° _ evidences the nature of{@ Ifaison arrangement between this. Agency anda
H
ft

 

 

  

 

i. foreign. intelligence’s service] This denial was made under the authoriy of
fe exemptions CD and &) 5y. : : .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
13-00000 ‘

    
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
    

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 

: Rernandez Armas: "Listen, I have your cofifidential (revort) 125, about the Sra.
Duran caseg and I want to ask.you for some declarations on this{ you can teal me
in detail", He adds "Listen...that's true...of blackmail, what you say here in the
confidential (report), the Federals of that country wanted Sra. Silvie Duran to say.
sonebhing, that *ney had some interest in, and had offered some money to the
American? (Oswald). "Hernandez Armas replied that "no, no, nothing about money, no"
Dorticos comttmud speaking, “and they triea to detain her, to oblige her to make

a statement! Hernandez says that "she was detained, and was questioned with respect
to this visit and the request fora visa, and then she said ‘that she had, requested
the visa, had tiised. ous She. ivouments end the . reply of. our government had been --
egative, n vofereting te the visa" "e. Dorticos asked if "you spoke with her" - . Hernandez... ..

said that yess, “I sould talk to. her yesterday. and t immediately sent the report",

" Dorticos: “mderstand? if all this is true, better. that it be known; if she is ‘being

DSETAIN GD oe nt .
by those people, better ‘too.” ‘Hemnendez: I was saying that she was

 

“detained sabia ‘afterioan, i, and freed in the early morning, end yesterday was when

—E-found’ hev-and- eould talk with” her,” she ‘referred’ me (7 me ¥ePirié) ana’ t took” ~~

_ advantage . of. the fact. that. a ‘plane was. about: to leave with ovr mail. ~“Dorttoos : “yes,”

the paper ' that z have here, and don! Gon't ‘tell me that, Seer that aa what happened?

"Hernandez: : What I have just told. you besides the. interrogation. Dorticos: _ What wes

 

 

- eke os bee cine lene ae eet ets mene senate ena moe ine ratte

“it that they asked yout. Hernandez: They. asked her cconczefiy about whether she. knew

this snail & ie “thet had gc gone @ to the Consulate; ae she had ‘personal. relations, and.
- even if she had intimate ‘relations with ‘him, . .bhe denied all that, only... .Dorticos: i

--iarbimate - relations ‘with la ‘him?—Hermandez:~ “Yes; she denied all that and. said thet™
it was @ case, like any. other, of. ‘the. many. of ‘the hundreds of scieec come to-

     
 
 

' “request visas at: the Sonsuiate,, i ae " she reneubered in detail of this’ case ae was |

in wach « our Consul. 208, rebuked bin and etter him out,

UISES/ «:
homvense)> g

    

   

  

‘Dorticoss “and why does she have (hema:

“treat her badly? Heruendez: well, yey, yes. Dorticos: what did they do to her?
QNvISES .
“Hernandez: : : She has a few 1 the” arms, because. she says they” squeezed her

.. &Ems during. the interrogation. - ‘Dorticos: -what was. it...a8 she tola you: about what ~

      
   

   

was “done. Hernandez: In this vay, feresicentep: they went, to her. house and took her cs
“to “the ‘station, to the office of- Federal Police . and. Interrogated her to. the “extreme . _

, _ yes, you sent that, I already know what ‘you sent. ..do you. imow. vhat.. happened?. -that----. -p--

 
13-00000 6 +

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

IT was telling you about. Dorticas: and the maltreatment, how was it? Hernander:

At the time of interrogation, trying to impress her so that she would tell all si:
had to sey, that she kmev, and then wes when they took her by the arms and shook

her. Dortic ‘Listen, Joaquin and did they aske her some other Guastion about mney?

Hernandez: no, no, absolutely, it seens..,,.Dorticos: did they try to get a statement

from her? Hernandez: RO, no, absolutely from what she told me, they limited thenselves

principally to Petry to find out what relations she had had and her husband with

‘this individual. Dorticos: and they spoke of money? Hernandez: no, no, she has-not

‘told me. enything about. money, they did not talk to her about that, that is, she has |

not told me that they Bpoke to ‘her about that. Dorticos: Mirabal$ iB to a friend —

something about. ‘that. _ Hernandez: _ seh? well, qt asked her if there ‘had been some

interest, if they bed. questioned her ahem on other points >» if there had been ¢ somethin;

else, and. she did not speak about that. _ Dorticoss - At any rate, ‘question ber « some
Good, Presidente, Twill call 7”

 

” more, investigate | more and = call me here. Hernandez: °

“you inmediately.”

 
