 

 

Cuban people are not Hkely to want to risk their Hves on the basis of .
Promises made by the rrasent membership of the Council. He feels
that acceptance of the Council would be improved by adding to its
membership two or three more people whose names would be signi-
ficant and meaningful to the Cuban people. He did not name any

specific candidates.

14. Mr, Ray let me read a 13 or 14 page report which he had
just received {rom the MRP coordinator in cole &
which painted a dreary picture of conditions in C)

of the invasion; was critical of the inclusion of Batistianes and “ninos
bonites" in the invasion force; conveyed the strong feeling that the
Cubans had been betrayed by the Americana; and indicated that while
the MRP organization waa still pretty much intact physically, morale
was almost completely shattered. Mr, Ray said he would provide me
a sanitized copy (there were some operational and personal details)
of the report for our information, -

15. In view of this report from within Cuba, Mr, Ray said that
he will wish to defer submitting his plan for our consideration until
he is able to receive word from Cuba concerning the capabilities,
willingness and feasibility of carrying out some of the activities he
has in mind. He said it ia useless to submit a program of action if
the human elements to carry it out are Jacking or completely demora)-
ized. He thought he might be eble to present his prospectus within
approximately ten days. He eaid naturally he will not give the people
inside any indication that he has been discussing 4 plan of action with

us.

16, Turged Ray to consider submitting at least a preliminary and
admittedly tentative prospectus at this time based on the as¢umption
that his assets are stil] intact and will be willing to cooperate in order.
that it may receive early consideration, However, he stuck to his
belief tnat this would not be practicable and reiterated the ne a for
prior evaluation of the strength and morale of his following,. ~

*

 

17. Ray asked concerning the detainees at McAllen, Texas, and
wondered if they have been released. He was told that as far as I
know they are still under detention, He said Mr. Goodwin had taken
their names and promised to look into the matter, Mr, Betancourt

resin cy

a
 

* EYES SY

- — SECREY
~b-

said he would check directly with Mr. Goodwin re their statua.

18. Iinvited Mr. Ray and/or Mr. Betancourt to call me over
the weekend in case either should want to discuss the matter further.
Thad the feeling that Mr. Betancourt was personally in favor of eub-
mitting now a plan covering "short term" needs of their organization
and it may be that such a paper wiil bs submitted after he has an
opportunity to talk with Mr, Ray in private.

03

a

JAN / dla

Distribution:
Original & 2 = A/DDP/A
1+ C/WHD
1» AC/WH/4 & circulate
y-T> Manuel Ray 201

TA erie
tr. “2

go

 
14-00000

UPA “ver

 

to the proper people at the sarliest poaeible time a carefully thought-
out plan of action which would sat forib clearly the objectives -- what
the project hoped to achieve; a statement of the problem; the strengths
of the Castro regime following the {ll-fated invasion; the statue of the
underground and ites morale and capabilities; the extent of Internal
support for and discontent with the regime, ete., etc.

4. Talso spoke of the need for describing the kind of activities
which the Ray organization planned to engage in and the aseete and
capabilities which they have or can acquire to do the job. The need for ,
explaining the relationship and coordination of the plan with the Revolu-
tionary Council was discussed at some length.

$. I suggested that ho include in the plan an itemization of the kinds
of support which he would expect us to supply immediately as well as the
kind and quantity of eupport which would be required of ue ae the project

developed.

6. Taiso suggested that the plan include their views on how U. S.
Haison and coordination could bast be worked out; how funda would be
funneled into the project; what commo and other training would be re-
quired; whethar U.S, "real estate’ would be needed, ste.

7. Ray outlined some of his thoughts regarding his proposed pian
According to him it contemplates action in three broad fields:

of action.
{a} Underground activity -- principally sabotage -~- {nm the
urban areas, H

{b) Gradua} bulldup «- largely through clandestine infiltra~
tione of sma) bodies of men -- of guerrilla forces in mountaiae

ous and defensible areas,

{eh A psychological warfare campaign within Cuba and abroad
Aimed at discrediting Castro and at the same time providing the

people of Cuba something to fight for.

 

 

\
8. It ia Ray's intention to depend almost entirely on maritime opera-
tions for the infiltration of personne} and materie! into Cuba. He also
rules out of his plan the creation of another invavion army but does cone
template the training of groups of perhaps up to 150 men in other friendly

\
 

104-10179-10096

 

* 4

:

 

12 May 196!

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT 2: Meeting with Ing. Manue} Ray

PARTICIPANTS: Ing. Manuel Ray
Ernesto Betancourt

Rogelio Cisneros _
C8

1, Ray did not return to Washington until carly morning on Friday,
12 May 1961. He called me at 0700 from the airport. He was unable
to fix a definite hour for us to get together due to the fact that he was
expecting an appointment with a person he did not name some time
during the morning. He later called a number of timee from the Hotel
Ambassador to advise me that he still had had no word on his appoint~
ment. At 1145, Mr. Betancourt called to eay that he wae with Ray
and "Eugenio" (Rogelio Cisneros) and could we get together. I suge
gested they drive out te ‘ae Clarendon Hotel Court on Wileon Boulevard
where Thad taken a room for holding cur meeting. They arrived in
Mr. Detancourt's car at approximately 2230 noon time and we first
went to the naarby Hogate Restaurant on Wilson Boulevard for lunch
before we got down to the business of the prospectus,

2. During lunch we did not discues the plan but I did take the op-
portunity to strese ina most serious way the need for absolute secrecy |
concerning our discussions today and any future discussions or devel- . :
‘opments which might take place in the future with tespect to our relation- — :
ship, All agreed on the need for tight security: . 7 :
i

3. After Junch we drove to the Hote) Court and from approximately

2330 until 1730, we discussed the prospectus. Using Mr. Barnes’ out-
line as a general guide, I stressed the importance of being able to present

ros way

+

C
 

a

countriee of South America (he mentioned Venesuela as a possibility}
and said he would oxplore the possibility of basing maritime operationa

in non-U. S. ports.

9. Ray said some means, other than Swan Island, must be found
for reaching the Cuban population by radio broadeasts. He spoke of
the possibility of short wave broadcaste from Venezuela and utiliza-
tion of a commercial station in Miami which he understands can ba |

clearly heard.in Cuba,

10, Ray spoke of the deaireability of stimulating the organisation
of "Pro-Trus Cuban Revolutionary” student groups in many countries
of Latin America (he said a successful organization has been formed
in Puarto Rico) and of sending qualified representatives to these Latin
American countries where there is Soviet diplomatic representation to
Contact student and labor groups aad leaders in an effort to present to
them the true picture of the sorry state cf students, workers, and
intellectuals in Castro's Cuba.

Ql. Ray ig also interested in the peasibility of putting out a 'Newe
Letter" under MRP sponsorship which would discuss various aspectea of
the Cuban picture and set forth plans for Cuba after the fall of Castro.
He thought such a pews letter could go » long way towarde correcting
mistaken impreesiona among American univereity profeseore and in
other circles as to the true nature of the Castro regime. He pointed
to the recent letter from 63 Harvard professors which was recently
published in the N, Y. Times as a "horrible example" a2 to how mia-
informed ever university professors aye on presont cay Cuba.

12. When the discussions got around to the need for conducting
operations at least “under the umbrella” of the Revolutionary Council,
and the need for obtaining Dr. Miro's concurrence before the U. S,
would be able to support any operation, it was obvious that neither -
Ing. Ray nor Mr, Betancourt holds a high impreesion of the Council.
Both fee) that there is a strong possibility that the close public
identification of the Council with the recent invasion may well have
discredited the Counci) to such an extent that it commands no support

or F respect within Cuba. -

For the eake of argument they were willing to concede that the

politica} advantages of maintaining the Council for the purpose -of forcing

 

 
 

Touhy
Seeakt
nde

unity of the various exile groupe may well outweigh its other obvious
shortcomings. However, both fee], and Mr. Betancourt was quite
emphatic on thie point, that the Council ag a body is not capable of
directing clandestine actions against Castro and as a matter of fact
ie opposed to any further efforts at overthrowing Castro by sabotage
and other subversive actions since they are completely "sold" on
the theaie that Castro can only be removed by direct U. S. military
action and therefore a continuation of Cuban underground activities
éan only result in needless and futile lose of life. In the factof this
attitude, Ray said he does not expect to receive much encouragement
for his plan from the Council, although he is fairly confident that
Dr. Miro's approval can eventually be obtained,

Mr. Betancourt thought that a workable solution might be found
to their problern if the Council would agree to concern itself exclusively
with {a} the current task of unifying the opposition, and (b) planning for
ite future assumption of power ae the provisional government. Under
this arrangement, operations aimed at the downfall of Castro could be
entrusted to those leaders and groupe (euch ae the MRP, MRR, and

possibly the MDC) which have both the assets and the will to do the

job. Mr. Ray thought that it might be feasible to create an operations

planning board or command among the groups with demonstrated agsets
and thus avoid unnecessary duplication and confusion and make possible
overall planaing. TR was obvious, however, that he would préfer to act

autonomously in the execution of his program,

Mr, Ray was very critical of Artime and claimed he was in possession
of sufficient facts" to convince him that Artime, in collusion with ele-
menta of the.camps, were planning to eliminate the MRP and its leaders
from the picture, when the invasion succeeded. He eaid he "knows"
that Artime was being financially supported by wealthy ex-Datistianos

of the Miami area.

13, Ray hinted at various times that the MRP may at some point
find iteelf faced with the necessity of withdrawing from the Council and:
going it alons, He says that tht Council is composed of “good men" but
they have no assets or significant followings and “have nothing to offer
the people of Cuba" and although the proclamation of the Council, as
finally drafted, was a good one the "progressive" aspects of the proclam-
ation were forced on the Council by the Americans and do not represent
the true feelings of the majority of the Council membere; He said the.

 
