13-00000

 

SECRET

fle on CGWALD and pass thea to us, end. tho FEL gave us a copy of the
Sovist Consular file on OSWALD which had bean publicly given by the Seviet
dotaseator to the Seoretery of State. On Friday 6 Decenber 1963, Deputy
Attomey General Eatzerbech invited us te review the FRI's comprehensive
report on the case to nike sure our sources ware net Jocpandived and that
cur information vas correctly quoted. We found the report hixhly
interesting and ne threat to ow eacority, as long as it wea read only
by the authorised investigative bodies.

After the first few daye, the CIA investigation of the case was

 

and snalyeis of the most important security cases, and by a few officers

- and enalysts of our Western ewisphere Division.

As seen as our Mecico City Station realiced thet Lee OSWALD wag the
prime suspect, it began re-serwening all the written telephone tranescripte
in ite files covering the Soviet Euhassy for the pertinent ported. The

actual tapes were also reviewed, but many of them had been erased after the

SiGe

See ace ne ae eae a ae eRe
 

 

SECRET =

nome two weeks walt. Several calls believed te invelve OSWALD ware
discovered and their contents cabled to Washington, where they vere
disseminated to the Waite Houss, the State Department, the Federal
Buren of Investigation.

OGWALD's name was not actually mentioned in these additional calls,
but eimilarity of speech and various plain points of content Link then
to him. These calls are summarized below in chronological order.
thay cover the period from 27 September 1963 to 3 Onteber 1963, the ubhole
span ef GSHALD's visit to Mexico City aa leter learneé fram travel records.
i GE: Reptentoens. man phones obhe: Sopdet istary Attacks quads: cugies >
says he needis a visa te go te Odesea. Han enawering says be should call

15-60-95 and ask for the Conaul. Caller aske for the address, and it is

2] September, 4:05 Fi ~ The Cuban Consulate phoned the Seviet
Ceneulate. Glivia Duran, Mexican national clerk of the Cuban Consulate e
talked te « deviet official, saying that a male Americen citizen wes at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit viee te pass through Cuba on his way
13-00000

 

car overseas stations, and many pieces ef inforuation on OSKALD and. nie

wife had bean received beck. The Mexice City Station researched its

cH telephone taps very thoroughly ané came up with eaveral more conversations
probably involving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this memes these
coangetad him alse te the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. Several Macicans
were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a gecd pletuxe
of whet he was really up to. Many conferences were held with the FBI
liaison officer who asked ue fer certain actices and yessed us information
from the FEL investigation. Onethe sinus side, a host of fabrieaters,

 

most of which we investigated. ALL of thege ere soon discredited, but they
are still coming in.

During this phase of our work, ve served primarily in suppart ef the
FBL, which was entrusted by the Fresident with the major responsibility for
the investigation. The FBI was too busy to supply us with much of its 8
oun information, but annvers were civen te specific questions we posed to

assist our investization. The Department of State did photograph its entire
13-00000

as the possible essusein end asking for traces. The message was passed
on at once by the Chief Cl, Mr. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Real, of his

Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. Betty Egeter of thie Uuit imedintely

 

recoguined the name of Lee OSWALD and went for his file. At the sam
time, Mes. Bustos of the Mexieo Desk, vho bad written our first feport on
OSWALD an 10 Geteber recognized the nase from redie reports end vent
after the sume file. Me. Retebhartt, Mexteo Desk Chief, veo was home on
leave, heard the news end phoned in 9 reminder thet we had something on
OSWALD, While ve were preparing a cable to Mexieo City asking thes for

 

 

Votee of Auertca browicant ani cabled te ue a reminder ef the information
the Station haé cant in on hin.
Fey the next weak, « desen people in the Agency ware continucusly

engaged in handling incoming meseages on tha cage, writing reports to be

 

cabled out, tracing the sawes mentioned, and researching files. Within a g
week, 27 cabled reports had gone out to the Waite House, the State Depart-

ment, and the FBI. Many cables of guidance and inguiry had been cent to

 
 

Eubeusy was not OSWALD anyway. As chance would have it, none of our
several photo obsemtion points in Mexteo City had ever taken an identi -
fiable pieture of Lee OSWALD,

Our Mexico City Station very often produces information Like thia
on US citizens contacting foviet bloo enbasaies in Mexico City. Frequently
the information ve get is extremly incriminating, and on one or two
aceasions ve have even been able to apprehend and yeturn to the USA
American military personnel who ave attempting to defect. In all such

cates, our Headquarters desk requests end obteina the special perminaion of

“gh Deputy Dinedter fer Panis te pass the Caregktory tuforssttonvon eUB nog sieo

eltizen to other covermment agencies. Derogatery informmtion on Americans

ig net treated routinely; in each cose the DDF or hia Assistant personally

seratinize the inferustion, make sure it ie credible, and decide whether and
to wnom it will be passed. Only in absolute emergencies is the Hexice City
Station authorlzed to pass euch information directly to tha FBI office in e
the U.S. Bmbassy.

At this writing (13 December 1963) we do not knew what action the FBI

 
13-00000 .

 

and other egencies may have taken based on our report. We euxmise that the
FBX may have made local checks through Mexican authorities to see if

Lee OSWALD ws actually in Hexico City on 1 October. Infead, later in-
vestigation has confirmed ell the details ef bis trip, where he stayed,
ang whet he did. fo avoid creesing lines with the FBI, am Mexico Station
underteok no local investigation of its om. hn wo naw kaon, OOMAED Left

Mexieo on 3 October and was no Lenger thate when our report was put out.

 

Sinee thie telephone tap operation|

the Mexicans aleo had the 1 Octsber intercept on Lee OSWALD,

 

 

 

 

 

Place.
«22 Hovenber 1963

When vord of the shosting of President Kennedy reached the offices
of our operating divisions and staffs on the afterncon of Friday 22 Boven-
ber 1963, transister radios were turned on everywhere to follow the a
tragedy. When the name of Lee OSWALD was beard, the effect was electric.

A phone mesaage from the FBI came at about the same time, naming OSWALD

 
13-00000

consul whese name be
donate tee Weal: det oa 5

orem for him to Washington. He wanted te know if there were “anything

Ve Diseover Lew OSWALD in Mexico City

CIA ata produce one very significant piece of information oa Lee
OSWALD before he shot President Kemmedy. On 1 October 1963, our Hexico
city Station intercepted a telephone call Lee OSWALD ne fro someplace
in Mexieo City to the Soviet Eubassy there, using his own name. speaking
broken Russian and using his true neawe, OSWALD was talking te the Enbasay

guard, OIYEDROY, whe often answers the phone. OSWALD safé he hed visited

_ the Bubassy the previous Saturday (28 Septeuber 1963) and epoken toa

tele-

had forgotten, and who had promised to send

   

new." The guard said 1f the congnl wes dark it wae (Veleriy Viedetrovich)
KOSTIQOV. ‘The guaté checked with someone else and egid that the message
bed gone out but no enawor hed been received. He then hung up.

Taie plece of information was proguced from a telephone tap center

 

 

which we operate It

 

 

 

 

- on | eal -

ne ae
 

 

fies OCR | Oct emma

1 secret.
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET oe

 

EXTENSION

 

TOs. (Officer designation, room-number, and |
, Building}

OFFICER'S
ANITIALS

to whom.
FORWARDED .

 

Draw a line across

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM 6] 0 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS ~— | SECRET

[1 CONFIDENTIAL «7 INTERNAL = -F_sUNCLASSIFIED
13-00000

 

 

is highly secret and|

 

who have their own center. Gur jeint center proéuces great

 

waases Of telephone intercepts which are transexibed and reviewed by our

i
i
i
“|

emall staff in Mexico City. By 9 Octeber, the OSWALD telephone converas-

 

tion ef 1 October had been transcribed and a eumary of it cabled to
| Washington. ‘he name Lee OSWALD meant nothing special to our Mexico
City Station, but in their report they did judge bim to be an American
Hale.

The cabled report was received in Weshingten on 9 October and checked

   

the Soviet Euhassy in Nexice City was probably the Lee OSWALD who kad
defected te the Soviet Union in 1959 end returned to the USA in 1962. On

10 Osteber 1963, the day after the report fram Mexico City, CIA Headquarters

: aeat out a cabled report about lee OSWALD's phone call to the Soviet

Embassy}; the report went to the FBI, the Department of State (because @
OSWALD ves a US citizen), and to the Havy Depertuent (because he vas a

former Marine.) ‘The cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

 
13-00000

Liklibeed that the Lee OSWALD mentioned was probably the former defectar.
A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand to the Lmnlyretion end
Hatureligation Service, with which ve bave no cable Link. The same day
“a tons cable went out to Haxioo City infeming our Station of the beck-
ground of defector lee OSWALD ané asking for mare information. Our Station
vas inatructed to pass ite infomation on the phone call to the Nexice
City efffiees of the FRI, the Exbasay, the Raval Attache, and the Innigra-
tien and Seturslisation Service. ‘This was done.

In ite origins! report of 9 October, Mexico City had seid it had «

 

i October 1963, the éay OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation
in Mexies City provides us with secretly taken photographs of many but not
all vieitere te the Soviet Sabassy there, taken with telephoto Lenses.
Agcordingly, we cabled the Navy Department on 24 October 1963 asking for
a photograph of Lee OSWALD fraz his Marine Corps days so we could compare
photes. We hed not received this photegraph by 22 Rovember 1963, but in

any event, it turned cut that the man photographed outside the Soviet

SECRET

 
