 

:
i
i
|
i
|

 

 

36 Atarch 1904

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECO&D

SUBJECT: Centact Report, Meeting with AMSMILE-1
DATE Hy 1. March 1964, 1830-2100 hours

PLACE : Duke Zeibert's Restaurant

PRESENT Subject anaf as Ercitheism

b3

1. 1 scheduled this meeting for the sole purpose of continuing
my quiet development of Subject begun in November 1963. The enters
prige wae undertaken on a non-specific basis just to keep in touch with
Subject because of his relatively pre-eminent position in the exile
community. Before the (netant meeting | had had brief discussions
with bolten and Anderson, obtaining their concurrence with my idea
that Subject could eomeday be a valuable source of insights into the
operationa level ae had actually intended at this meeting to
concentrate on Subject’s function in the falbut found that the
diecussaion directed itself almost eaciusively te the affairs of AMBANG-1,
Thia fact was the direct and accidental reault of my opening gambit to
the effect of ' What's new?" in answer to which Subject complained that
since our leet meeting in January, Latin America seemed to be on the
way to hell in a bandcart and about the only two people who seemed to
be doing anything about it were AMBANG and former Veneauelan
president Betancourt. J shan't attempt to reproduce the two hours of
@Pneral conversation but do fee] that the importance of AMBANG
coupled with the nature of Subject's views on him warrant a statement

of what theee views are.

2. Subject has known AMBANG for several years and has
admired him through all the various seasons of their .relationsh:p.
Subject wae first impressed with AMBANG's organising talents at the
time AMBANG took over responsibility for organizing the anti- Batista
Havana underground from Faustino Peres, AMBANG-1I'a talents as an
engineer, according to Subject, have impreased nearly everyone who is

too

ae Jpn

 

316R
[0g 10179-40200

As
‘ ‘

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

na Meee :
ie BHO

  

Poke

PARA carte
hegcfeea
HAE @ pk Dierwae’
vA A the CaS betaascg unt) 0s
ag waned, Phe L_JaA .

‘ Palit ott Me

FROM: _.. a! fe Af oo
vedi Sh CMSA/E DE sas

Foew AD RIM ACTS FOR a4
Tress 2410 Macwkaves isc sro menoaaeens 0

 

G/6R

 
 

i
!
i

 

 

aware of them, These two factors, the organising talent aaa tbe
demonstrable engineering skill are apparently wedded to 6 firm,
judicious personality with the result that AMNANG is an effective and
agpesling person to Catan exiles of various stripe. Throughout the
evening Subject reiterated his conviction that of all exile leaders who
have emerged since the take-over of Cuba by Caetro, Ah: BANG alone
hes the ability and the profile to put together and iead a successful
resistance enterpries.

3. Subject streesed repeatedly his conviction that whoever is to
attempt to cause & serious crack in the ever-thickening ring of defenses
on the ieland must have the kind of name which will conjure a positive
image in the imagination of the average Cuban. This person must mean
something, not only interms of past affiliations and present mulitary
strength But in terme of the immediate and not so immediate future, to”
those persons who, though not committed to the Castro revolution, have
either benefitted slightly or are tound to it by virtue of their jobs.
Subject ie certain these persona would not consider AMBANG to be a

menace.

4. Subject claimed that he is not working with or for AMBANG
and asserted that he had not conversed or corresponded with him for
over half a year. Uf indeed Subject wag leading me on, attempting to
sell AM BANG to me, he did so with a subtlety to which lam definitely
mot accustomed. He expressed oa more than one occasion @ fear that
AMBANG might, in his zea] to get something moving, commit himeelf
to auch tight timing that he would be forced to undertake action at &
moment which waa actually disadvantageous to himself. He stressed .
that even AMBANG's capital on the island is limited and that whatever
movement is made to cagh in on this capital must be calculated to have .
the greatest possibie effect.

 
