74-0000

 

 

that pursuant to an exchange of letters between the Chairman and the
Director, coordinated with CIA offices of interest, revised procedures
to allow a selected group of staff researchers access to CIA documents
with limited sanitization to facilitate the Committee's review of the
larger volumes of files involved. Sensitive viable|Agency sources,
however, are excised and the staff must show relevancy to the
investigation if there is any question as to making material available.
For example, the Committee's inquiry into the CIA s
resisted until the staff disclosed to us that the purpose was former! 3-3
CIA employee James Wilcott's allegation that Oswald was a CIA agent.
Those staffers given this special access have executed special secrecy
agreements which run to the Director as opposed to the Committee as is the
case with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence for example,
There also has been concerns expressed that the Committee has been
given greater access than has ever been done before ina Congressional
investigation. Although we are getting into new unchartered waters

as.a result of the Jay Epstein book, the Church Committee, for example,
had wide access to the Oswald 201 file and personnel files.

 

4. Attached is an agenda for the next Task/Force meeting. You
may wish to review some of the major issues pending. Positions on
these issues, of course, will be fully coordinated and appropriately
presented to the DDCI/DCI for determination.

one

 
  

Lyle L. Miller

Attachments

cc: Each Member of HSCA Task Force

 

 
 

Tha t04a0-t0344

“

on

 

” RETURN TO GIA
we Background Use Only
‘ eeer] Do Not Repreduce
OLC '78-1641
12 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Administration

Inspector General

General Counsel
Deputy Director for Public Affairs

FROM: Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations

i

1, On 27 April 1978, I sent youa projection of issues requiring
the development of coordinated positions for consideration and decision
by top management, In response to my request, each of you designated
representatives toa Task Force assembled for this purpose and the Task

Force met on 4 May (Attachment A).

2. Attachment B contains memoranda on sessions with the senior -
staff of the Assassinations Committee subsequent to the 4 May Task
Force meeting, covering Committee tomplaints and our pre-position
bargaining with them on certain key issues, e.g.,:

a. Nosenko: Has refused to be video taped;
the Committee staff is pondering this decision,
The "formal" session has been slipped from 31 May
to 21-22 June.

 

b. The question of whether the claim of
sources and methods can extend to information known
to a defector before he is recruited or defected.
|
3. Iunderstand there has been concern over the - range of access
by Committee staffers to sensitive information. I think you should know

  

 
74-0000

 

 

 

 

 

AGENDA

I. Providing CIA Documents

 

A. Addendum to Memorandum of Understanding .

Security Arrangement

B. Scope of documents furnished - initially only
for hearings. Latest request for four volumes

of Mexico City Station files to

report. |

prepare final

C. Bernardo de Torres : Request POA to confront

hin at hearing.

If. Documents Requested
A. Polygraph Charts of Nosenko

B. Hart Study (DCT says no-will offer Hart)

C. Photographs Mexico City Surveill:
possible public release

III. Hearings

A. Executive Session - Soviet defec
will honor all security caveats

ene

B. Public Hearings
1. Possible Witnesses:

Len McCoy

Bruce Solie

Anne Goodpasture
Dave Phillips
James Angleton .
Richard Helms
Ray Rocca

ance -

tors - Committee

Admiral Turner (possible witness re CIA position

on Nosenko bona-fides)

IV. CIA Review of Committee's Final Report

 

A. Establish CIA Task Force
B. What should be made public - san

C. Establish procedures to resolve

 

 

itization procedures

issues - CIA spokesman
74-00000

.!
V. Final Disposition of Notes, Transcripts, and other

ommittee Material

 

 

A. All notes returned to CIA or déstroyed with
certification of destruction.

 

B. Transcripts, depositions, and other permanent
records reviewed for sanitization. Referred to
HPSCI for permanent retention and control.
Memorandum of Understanding Addendum.

| +

 

 

 

   

mts

 
