 

_ &.

F,

"le. A/2 may also attempt to contact the following
operational asset if he has an opportunity to make.

 

 

contact. .

wb | of

. age Gate 30s early 40s, married,
‘fo [o) @ Partido Pueblo Cubano.” He

-fought with Raul Castro in the Sierra Cristobal Area,
Following the Castro takeover he served as (head of Jos
‘one of the military zones within Havana province, .
Eventually phe was given gesser assignments and A/2
thinks he? k king {in INRA) in Oriente Province,
He claims assisted his underground group

during. 19 y supplying trucks for transporting
weapons and materials, .

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS
1. Cover

A/2 will. be issued documentation claiming he is an employee

of a local brewery in Havana. A/3 on the other hand will be
issued documentation as a bus driver within the city of Havana,

Both will, also be issued drivers licenses and additional
‘items such as immunization certificates, Cuban receipts, etc.

' The two men will also be outfitted with disguises.

2. Communications

Primary communications will be established through an SW
system. Both men will be given SW instruction and will be
issued accommodation addresses in Miami. This instruction

and these addresses in turn will be passed on to the recruited
.assets in PBRUMEN for use as the operation develops. Pre-
arranged signals will also be devised for use by the team via
. telegram to indicate their progress and confirm their place :
and time of exfiltration. Both members will also be given an
OWVL system to provide them with quick instructions in case

of an emergency. ue

OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION
re eee A AE EE LON

1. The operational aspects of Phase I portrays a mission which
has considerable potential but also considerable risk. The
area of infiltration is within five miles of a cruise missile
site and its accompanying radar. .In addition boat patrols are

*» Known to work this portion of the coast at frequent intervals.

z4

/ Once: infiltrated the team will not have to travel far before
heir first contact. However, A/3 is leary of Staying at his
ther 's farm) for any length of time and he does not want his

wt Zather)to know of his presence in Cuba. For this reason the

  

"farm will not be able to serve as a safehouse. A/2 plans on
leaving the farm the same day lands. This presents the

riers

problem of what to dé tera Viren On approach is to take A/3

      
74-0000

 

organization and this position may dampen their :

’ rebuttal to these remarks is that
the past and when the chips wer nm he continued to aid him

 

td Guanabo or Havana and safehouse him. . This, however, may
jeopardize the operation because A/3 lacks the maturity and
patience necessary to stay put while A/2 goes about his busi-

‘ness. He may take advantage of his visit to Havana to under-

take a clandestine assignment on his own. When A/2 and 3
step ashore in Cuba, control will vanish, Fortunately A/2

, -has a sufficient resource of judgement to go about his busi-

ness competently. Unfortunately A/3 gives no such indication.
For this reason an attempt will be made to steer A/3 towards
developing assets around his (father's farm}with maritime
reception capabilities. zy

2... A/2, on the other hand, appears to have a sufficient -numbe:

of supporting assets tg e fe O’safety while in Havana.
However, he has not. seé an for over a year, In
addition both men are pr ntly o £ the Cuban Army

in recruiting. within the Army. ; Station reports o con-
flict with A/2's evaluation o his man, While thé¥é-iS iio
evidence to verify that is pro-regime, th has. been

e
a recent report on him From 0/3 which ciains) ks an
opportunist who might work for 2 ele aes : Ss
dow

 

S assisted him in

in his underground activities.o is still leaves a question
mark next to the worth of hich unfortunately can only
be resolved by direct. contac etween him and A/2. There are

_ other security implications which should be discussed in this

evaluation. Both A/2 and A/3 cannot be considered truly se-
curity conscious. While safehoused A/2 wrote a letter to a

contact in- Miami which was to be transmitted by his case

officer. The letter gave an indication that A/2 was seeking
contacts in Havana and conveyed the impression that a trip

"was in the dfing. A/2 has written several other letters

not seen by his C Os which might have given the same impres~-
: on the other hand ta uite freely abo

   

     
  

: Lid CHOUS Ed : aat he was joining
: .On an operation that would take them
first to Miami and thgp to Cuba. Once there they would go

to his father's farm }a d_be oO make contacts. A/3 also
stated ‘that a man named ould be one of their con-
tacts. This leose talk with A/3's attitude that
KUBARK exists only to serve him makes him a Marginal candi-

  

_ date for this operation. However, if A/3 is exfiltrated
. three -days after his entry into Cuba, the operation will
‘. gain his usefulness and eliminate some of the risk he

presents,

 
74-00000

  

 

pe ee : “of ,
4 .
ne e. age(23-24] born in Havana, single,
- : 4 ‘Sleer ene rerger wee tte e attended_the University

of Havana and Villanova from lisse to 1960] She became
# close friend of A/2 during heir student days in-
Havana.oOShe has no record of underground work. She
'. Lives in (Guanabo Beach) during the summer. A/2 felt he
- might attempt to contact her if she was living at
% (Guanabo Beach} in order to safehouse A/3 there if necessary

3. The following two operational assets will be contacted by
A/2 after he is safehoused in Havana. Their function will be
to spot Army officers disaffected wang, the Castro Regime,

. oe ra) .

 

a. age fate 30s early 40S) married. Subject
hol 6 ran of (Captaiayin the Rebel Army but is not
presently on active duty.0He was a friend of Castro's

during the revolution and A/2 claims he,still maintains
some contact with Fidel. He also clai. as been

 

 

working in a limited fashion against Fi was
originally associated with the MRR and Monte Cristo :
groups rimary interest has been trying to or-
ganize es within the Rebel Army against Fidel.
A/2 feel avery discreet individual who has
not been Identified as an anti-Castro organi of
the G-2, A/2 claims to be a close friend of nd

i Gent: him completely. A/2 saw and talked t a
oF 962]prior to his flying out of PBRUMEN as a ugees

 

fo)
: . age early 40s,)served in the
od (uis. Army)during World War Il. Accdrding to A/2,
” 06 was made command¢r of the th Military District
Following the disappearance of
06

S removed from the post and pre-
rmy pension as well as royalties
[__Btarte confiscated by the government, He said
tarted working against Castro within the M
under Manuel RAY. For a timehe was the(military /o
secretary of the MRP and became quite involved i
plotting against Fidel.g stated that it was
rumored at the time that as working for the
tL he was also a K agent. Eventually
= don a G-2 suspect list, but according
J S able to evade detection. Subject
has go connections within the Rebel Army and re-
-volutionary government. A/2 trusts this individual
and has confidence in him asa potential operational

- ele in spite of conflicting reports which mention
; 96 as an opportunist.

 

   
 

 

 

°

 

  
  

Obl.

t

 

 
74-0000

 

') .¢. Another contact of A/3 ig age 21,
: ‘single, 8th grade education. r t in

the form of food and safehousing tag underground workers
in. the past. Higgiome address is (Corojo #1, Cotorro,)o
Havana. He owns (outcher) shop in the Cotorro} ection

_ of Havana. Subject will be contacted by A/3 if%he needs
_ to be safehoused in Havana.

 

2. The following assets would be contacted by A/2 after
arriving in Havana. They will be contacted in the order
listed. Their function will be to provide safehouses and
vehicles for A/2, .

a. | 25) years of age, born in Havana,
A/2 Yirst met her when she was a student at the University

of Havana majoring in Social Sciences. Presently she
lives with her aunt in Havana and A/2 has maintained cor-
respondence with her, She has helped previously in
providing.safehousing for the underground. She also has

 

 

 

acar., — 06,00 5 .
b. a | age 55) borg in°Havana.
He is physician) who lives and practices medicing) in
Havana .o as helpéd A/2 in underground activi-.

ties previously. ‘He has a brother, two daughters and
a son now residing in the U.S, His daughters live in'

. New Jersey and were last seen by A/2 about six months
ago. Subject was a member of the. Partido Pueblo Cubano
an anti-Batista group, and was a professor of medicine|ds

at the University,of Havana up. until 1961 =
” . ‘signed. s also a close griend off dot
: ; ‘Lo
. . C.. | egabout 0) born in Cienfuegos, a
. ormer (senator (1954)‘as well as the former.head of the
o0 (Railroad system in Cuba Subject was originally a member
of the Autentico Party dnd claime KUBARK con-
fidante during Castro's faxcover{ has an apart-
‘ment and two cars and has previou dg A/2 in under-
ground activities. He has a daughter who works for the
government but is not sympathetic to the regime. The 0b

. husband. of this daughter, however, wor e Guevara|]
_ A/2 has maiptained correspondences wit
“ f3)

 

 

 

 

 

5 J .
age about 6s.) born in Havana, single.
s an|[Eng (in teacher who runs a small private

   
  

toring] school in nglish}? n Havana. She was A/2's
glish teacher] an offered support to the underground.
lives by herself, has an automobile and‘is a
close friend of A/2 and his wife. :

,

5B. B.C RE; ty

    

6
A
a
fe
iz low
oO
fe)

 
 

i - 08 - 3
: 2 Qi ear old Cuban, in contrast to A/2, ig
x impulsi On the other hand he is
is quick wit is appealing to his
fellow team members. He worked under A/2 in the underground
aS an action type, principally engaging in sabotage. His
: underground work began while he was in secondary school
when in 1958 he supported the revolution against Batista...
In late 1960 he sided with the counter-revolutionaries and
began full time anti-Castro activities. After the crack
down following the Bay of Pigs invasion he avoided detection
and continued to engage in underground activities. Finally
5 . | When tha, ituation became hopeless he left Cuba by air for
i so Miami ih August J1962. While A/3 has performed satisfactorily
5 : in his tra@ining up to-date, his performance falls far short
of. the other three members. A/3 feels KUBARK should onl
inciion.2S..3u iericECD is operation and should not oem
[ the operation. Fartunately his
role in this operation. is comparatively minor and he appears
Virese®. to comply with whatever A/2 decides. Nevertheless,
problems in the future

    

   
  
   

. Conduct black infiltration landing ‘at Punta La Jijira
g Cis 3785 5 I) and establish contact with t farm manager at
° /3's father's) farm in the Se 3885 III,
Coords 993614) .| oF

‘2, Through contacts of A/3 obtain transportation for A/2
to Guanaba or Havana. : . & .

farmiand train assets in maritime reception and clandestine
‘communications. Having completed this he would then be ex-
filtrated at Punta Jijira.

i , | 3. ne not definite, A/3 may remain at his father’ s

4, A/2 will go to Havana and obtain safehouse and operational
support through his contacts.

H . 5. A/2 will contact and develop two potential assets with
' high level connections within the Rebel Army.

al , 6. A/2 will train support and operational assets in clandes-
tine communications as well as arrange for transportation for
his exfiltration..

 

LF Exfiltration of A/2 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido
(AMS 8885 II).

  
74-0000

 

 

INFIL-EXFIL PLANS .

1, The tentative date £ the infiltration of A/2 and 3 at
Punta La Jijira_is 18 May” 1963. The infiltrees will make
their way to fA/3's father's) farm one kilometer from the coast

. and from theré A/2 will be provided with transportation to go

', ‘to Guanabo or Havana.

2. The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after. his
infiltration. This arrangment, as yet, is not definite,

3. ‘The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31
May -1963 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido. A/3 feels
.that Puerto Escondido would afford a more secure point for
exfiltration but that a reconnaisance of the area would be
necessary before final decision is reached, Prearranged
telegram signal would indicate his preference,

4. The above dates fall within a favorable moon phase for
maritime operations. In addition the infil-exfil schedule
will allow for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2
considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his
‘contacts.., ”

OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA
EEN CUBR

 
 
   

1. Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3 (a/8 24
A

-two men will w ay to rm owned jointly by /A/3's
father and | located kilometer) from the “point
of infiltr contact with sthe manager of

the farm named s{35 to 40 years of age,

is married and nas—an elementary school education. He has

 

 

ito make the following contacts in order to obtain

ton of underground activity. A/3 will depend upon
o

96 of
; b. I s 2 “gettin truck
: he wil ntact ho arm. next
8% to G/3's father 's/ Tarn. He is 6 =50} ars old, married,

_ t¥ansportation to Guanabo or Havana:

; . whg lives fe ew kilometers away in
o8 (sie owns ‘a small farm and a
o8 tcher shop )in the ar aIs6 owns a truck. He is

of [37 to 4 years of age, married with six or seven children,
He was jailed for a brief period in the past for counter~
revolutionary activities.

 

 

        

no Children, wife's name is
Santa Crys del Norte}in 195
me

i He was the(mayor of >

ea =owns a jeep.

 

 

 

 
74-0000

    
 
    
 
 

SfPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

"+ CQNTINUATION OF -
me UFGA - 8381

“DISPATCH

 

B. This ‘operation has a.ve aul
agents are picked up by. No only will
KUBARK stand to suffer, but ODACID will be tied directly in to the
arty as’ may: also EON AGE, by whom AMTRUNK/1 is employed,

 
   
 

 

¢.: The security of this operation has certain questionable aspects.
' At least six people were told about the operation in varying degrees
prior to the time the team was safehoused, ft Ag
AMICE/27 and AMICE/14, did

 

THIS Taae on.of an U SOwn nature from his KUBARK con-
tacts. An undercurrent of friction has recently developed between
_ AMICE/14 and AMTRUNK/3 which manifested itself in a fistfight on
29 March, This was precipitated by AMTRUNK/3 who called AMICE/14 !
the Cuban term for a homosexual, the ultimate insult to a Cuban. :
This in turn gives rise to the question whether AMICE/14, with a :
_ possible history of homosexual activity (see UFGA-8411), has made
’" guch an approach.to AMTRUNK/3. .

D. The commitments made to AMICE/27 or which AMICE/27 claims were
- made. to him are a matter of concern to the Station. This is an
> area over Which future misunderstanding or aggravation might easily
develop.

E. The’ Phase ‘I landing point appears highly risky. It is within
five miles of a cruise missile site radar, and in an area frequently

patrolled by sea. : RABEL Themes |

 
   

aEETS sereerone . nae ae , =
see of the two operations crossing or targetting on the same
individual will be present.

3. In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation, the AMTRUNK
group as a whole represents superior agent materiel. T f the
four have been outstanding in training. They appear to have a
NOSE OP THIF ly Well PIatSe'SSRTECTE SN the inside whom they ex-
pect to be able to call on for assistance, Although they have
- been out of ,direct touch with a number of these contacts for periods

ranging ton. to two years, this is frequently..the case in this type
on The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

of operat

 

quarters' decision is to continue with the operation at this time, |
operational plans for Phase I and Phase II will be submitted as !
formulated.

END OF MESSAGE ’

 

CLASSIFICATION “ PAGE NO.

. 30" 53a ; USE PREVIOUS EDITION. on SE c RET C] CONTINUED 2.

  
 
 

 

 
   

, PROCESSING

Rk —T FOR INDEXING
| A Tho INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY CUAL >

HEADQUARTERS 01
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

WG
AN coro

PRIORITY

    

 

- ACTION: . Request Headquarters decision on continuation or
termination of Project, AMTRUNK, — .

 
  
     

1. Attached: herewith is an 1 operational review of and progress
“report on the AMTRUNK team: for the period of 4 through 31 March.
Station views on the operation are summarized below.

 
        
   

‘2, The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weak-
nesses;

  

  
 

ges of the operation,
since the need for KUBARK assistance will dectease as gPerational
successes increase. It is believed thaj_AM)

Wesitation “selling out" the operatio

 
      
   

   
   
 
 

      
 

: 7 y at he felt it advantareous to
do so. It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is
most likely to ‘collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Es-
cambray, headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed
by Manuel Ray. In the meantime AMICE/27 will attempt | to have his
own way with the operation, He_helieves tha

fention because of his ZRME" ns = J

20..behind KUBARK's 2. ‘ 2 a
or niece Pu ie if the jperation ole KUBARK hal ST ERTS of the,
oes not progress tq his liking. Since AMTRUNK/1, accprding

to AMCAPE/1,"masterminded” tHis operatipn in the first place, ift may
be assumed that the AMTRUNKS |will withhbld nothing| from AMTRUNKV1,

 
    
 
     
  

   
  

 

  
 
 

 
    

      
  
  

    
  

   
  

S3z Lo
pe Beatert ITRUAK G- @~
ah ie Ys = Ly STATE,

 
  

  
 

Distribution:
3 - C/SAS Wattchs

“DATE DISpaTCNED DISPA’

oS : “@
Pe ct. apm 8 OM:

  
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

DISPATCH SYMBOL ‘AND NUMBER

UFGA-8381

, HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

   

     
  

y
RETURN To cia

, - Bak kground Use Only

. . \ BON Not Reproduce
74-0000

 

poo oO oo a 31 March 1963
. os

a, “PROJECT AMTRUNK. OPERATIONAL REVIEW

I. STATUS REPORT ON TRAINING AND PROCESSING, 4-31 MARCH,
a a til

. The AMTRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27, AMICE/14, AMTRUNK/2,
‘and AMTRUNK/3 were safehoused on 4 March 1963 at Safesite #164
on Plantation Key.. Andrew 8. PARMERS, KUROAR instructor from
headquarters, was already at the training site when the team
was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N. PEGGINS
and Hobart J. VANDEBORN. PARMERS remained at’ the safesite
until 16 March during which time he conducted training in
clandestine. methods and techniques, This training included
security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communica-
tions, agent spotting, selection, recruitment and Management,
and operational planning and reporting. The training included -
group discussion and participation in a series of ‘appropriate
operational situations, several problems, and daily physical
training. During this two:week period, either PEGGINS or
VANDEBORN visited the safesite every day, spending an average
of two or three hours with the group in operational dis-
cussions and processing. During the week of 18 thru 23 March,
‘both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group,
‘debriefing them in detail on their operational contacts, workin
out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing
their training on an informal basis. The week of 25 through

. , 80 March was spent in PM-type training with emphasis on compass

i : co -and map reading, including two night problems, and on weapons

! : familiarization and firing. During the period under dis-

” cussion the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED, were assessed

by the KUROAR assessment team, were given an initial series
of immunizations, were issued clothing, were processed for
. alias documentation, were processed for disguises, and were
further processed on cover and finance problems, The re-
sults of the LCFLUTTER examinations were sent to headquarters
under cover of UFGA-8111, on 13 March 1963. Based on DIR
26430, no further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time.

 

My Transmitted as attachment "A" to this dispatch is PARMERS
Sy report on his training of the AMTRUNK group, transmitted as

y+ attachment "B" are the results of the assessments of the
2 _ AMTRUNK group, and transmitted as attachment "C" is the
tA training report for the week of 25 March.
ty Ii. AMTRUNK MISSION OBJECTIVE.
ieee .
BEd... Cc
Egy ia ary
ie LOR ina coup deta

Ba
garg bh +
base
asi

 

   
  

.
we.

  
   
74-0000

 

. =
i
Commu from power, A secondary and subordinate ~
mission is etermine'’ the climate prevailing among the

populace in Havana for organizing resistance elements capable
of either passive or active sabotage. This secondary mission
is exploratory in nature only, through the first phases of
. the project. In order to accomplish the foregoing missions,
. the operation has been split into two initial phases, which -
' will.be compartmented from each other. qlBse One. involves
- the black infiltration of AMTRUNK/2 and 3 on @ north coast
of Havana province. These two individuals plan to go into

Havana for a period of approximately two weeks, and then
exfiltrate pLack from the same point at which they infiltrated.
1 : E/27 2

  
   

of. Matanzas. These two individuele wilt likewise_go into -
Havana for a period of several weeks and then exfiltrate black.

 

These two Phases are’ discussed in detail in following para-
ASO 2) Pha [ a 1

 

gpned tos i i at
. make initial contacts among certain select high level military
figures in Havana. The following paragraphs discussing these
phases are not designed to be operational plans. Detailed
operational plans for each phase will be forwarded as de-
‘veloped. .

III, PHASE PHASE I.
vA. “AMTRUNK Personnel 0%

” cearcests is a(21)year old Cuban who is mature for his
yon an n some degree experienced in clandestine opera-
' tions. He attended Catholic Social dpiversity in Havana for
_two years, majoring in Social Studies. Prior to Fidel's
takeover. A/2 was allied to student elements of the Partido
Autentico which upheld the constitution of 1940. He supported
the revolution against Batista till it became apparent that
Castro had cast his lot for a Communist regime. During his
university years from 1959 to 1961 he was actively engaged
in supporting anti-Castro groups with weapons and materials.
Following the Playa Giron invasiondé great many in the Havana
underground were rolled up but A/2 avoided compromise. He
aaj io this work through 1961 and finally Sialnbehlde
in [January . Although A/2_ does not consider
L A he has been cooperative roughout
fe.is a pensive individual who displays good
_ y judgement .. His present attitude ‘towards KUBARK appears to
be one of "wait and see". In the meanwhile, he is con-
“ sciedtiously applying himself in preparation for his mission.

 
 
   

 

   

sow . .
rat ne NT eS TA ga as TONE
SAI eee

   
