104-10069-10077

 

   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
  

 
 
  

07 BI5 ¢% 087
” WLh 2037h

. wo, : a 27 November 1962
ho 8 gubgeets * Reported Use ot Yacht Potomac by Alpha 66

   

On 20 ‘Nov €2 ‘LAFO received an unsolicited telephone call on the
Listed * telephone number.

The caller wanted to advise that there was reportedly
4n the harbor at Long Beach a vessel], formerly used by the late Theodore
Roosevelt, called the Potomac. ‘This vessel, according to the infcrmant, was
veing used by the Alpha 66 organization. She was believed taking on e carge
of weapons crated as Argentine beef, and destined to leave soon for Seattle.
He added that.a Wes Davis had just signed on as an engincer, and there was
another character named Cliff Roberts on board. Both were descrived as bearded
. adventurers. ae no

 
 
 
 
   

The caller refused to “Hantity himself, claiming thet ke did not
lmow whether contact with the Agency would be approved by his employer, and
further ¢id not know whether or not the On

as valid or pe ed, |

rus esssn

aa ee 3. In ‘response ‘to. ‘a call tothe Intelligence Officer, hoc, it wis pened |
“3. that ther 1s a vessel, the Potowac, formerly one of the 155' USCG cutters.

oa “~~ Foe gome time it had been used by the late F. D. Roosevelt as the presidential

‘ “yacht. Later it had deen disposed of to the Maryland (State) Fish and Game

‘Commission, and. more recently it had been acquired by the Hydra-Capital,

ine.,
2 WLO West Coast, Highway, Newport Beach, California (OR 5=1549).
ody

 

 

 

usca: advised: further that ‘an investigator for the Los Angeles County

Prosecutor » D..L. ‘Wheeler, had accepted an assignment (taking leave of absence
to do so) to bring the Potomac’.from the Barbados to California.

The plan,
supposedly, was to make her a floating museum of some sort. On his arrival
in Bartados, Wheeler is reported to have found the creft in foul shape, with
only, a single engine. operative... He refused the job and returned to Los Angeles.
The craft later, however, did. turn’ .in San Diego in October and was later
beerved tiedup in: Cerritos Channel ;: Los Angeles harbor area; and subseguently,
she‘.was' moved: ack 0; San Diego, where. it-is. presently in a shipyard. She
has “eince been’ pati ted, and. appears: to -be undergoing so.

S is Dek of Wyse 3 MGS LAGE
‘The unident nf or ‘ ;

“(paragraphs 1 and 2), subsequently identified
: was re-contacted by telephone.
ested to him that in:

 

  

  
 
 
  
 

 

 

It vas
event any more information concerning the Potomac

‘the: ‘Like Lthood: f her’ use ‘in, any foreign actiyity came his way, we would
; olunteered the statement
hat it wes his.understanding that the Clif

8 he referred to pre-
- viously had come. from Barbados with the vessel) This ved ries
: reference to Barbados. : . “. S van
ae reas 8)
6... The above is for. your information only. ‘The sketchiness of the material
Q resented LAFO ag well asthe circumstances of its origin militate against its
_“eredibility. As:a consequence, no follow-up is anticipated unless requested,

 
 
 
  
  
       
 
   

    
 
  

 

RETURN
Backgrowis. U
‘Do Not Repracuce

 
  
  

   
