 

 

104-10265-10135

 

SECRET

 

13 October Leey

” PELORANDUEE FOR: 1 /6/ toports 2
SNE eteation EL 8

SUBJECT: "Reported Commitmant to Cuban Revolutionaries ‘ty

British Authorities in Nassau for Use of Small
Garibbean Island (Gf, 05~3/111,382 dated 9 Usteiar)

 

le Concirming ny telephone conversation with Heal telay concerning
additional infomation received on subjost, the following am: excerpts fron

a dispatoh from the VHD Representative in Miand (UIA~32 dated 2 Oetebor}y

are forvanied for your informations

apna called ma few days after my visit with hin on 25 Septorbar |
to. inform me that the nama of the British official with wher ue .
_FREYFE proup had discussed the matter of pottins an wminhabite

dslond aa a staging arva was Colens] Vorris WALL, of what he called
the "secret division" in Nassau, Bahamas, CDDALE said that FRIYRE
had also civen hin if411's telephone numbers which arer Office =  ~
2020 smd Hone “LEDLy and he invited WODAIE to eall Colonel: qa amd
confirm that tie British had made this coxsaltnent.s . :

This matter of aDritish islend had been mentionad to me before ty .
Special Avant George Davis of-the FBI, so I discussed the matter with .

hin (Davis), He-said that he Kad inowm that Hill has talked #0 someone

on this subject, but @ British officer, whose nie he thought, without

looking it up, was Cadwalder and who fe Hill's superior in Jamlcay came

to Hisnl to infora the FEI that Hill's conversation with that rroup

not entertain: such a notion, but Hill was off base in even discussing
the matter with the group and in not reporting their Proposal ta Us Ss

authorities.

2. QDDAIE is a promtnont U, S. businesaman in Miard with good contacts

among Cubm oxile groups. The original information, disseminated in

CS=3/41b,352, of which. your desk vas fwnished a copy, was alse received in
‘Wiamd. by the UMD Representative, from QONRIE, and not in Hsbana, as shown on.

the dissemination.‘

Martha Tharpe
73/Carth (e (Ext. 3229)

had been reported to him and that, not only would the British Government

 
