 

-on or about 6 July.. Coupled with Carlos' own workload and .

ae 7

SECRET

~2-

5. Copies of the reference possibly should be sent to |
Paris and Madrid not merely because of their general interest:
but also because of information which concerns current or proposed
operations. For example, the reflection of TEPEDINO's views
on “his own contacts with CARRILLO (pages 8 and 9 paragraphs
29 and 30 of reference) and the leads concerning CARRILLO's \
mother-in-law in Paris and U.S. employed aunt in Madrid (See
page 9 paragraphs 31 and 32) might be useful reminders. The
-denial of contact with CANTILLO in Madrid and the denial of
‘smuggling are in. conflict with a Madrid report. (See page 10

paragraphs 37 _and 38. 2
- 6. LCFLUTTER arrangements are in process. No operator is

available until 8 July and the Spanish speaking operator is
on transfer from Miami to Headquarters where he will arrive

we

‘travel plans, the foregoing makes an examination in the

‘Headquarters area on 8 July seem_the best arrangement. I
shall be available. ur. (Webster is contacting Carlos. (See

page 10 paragraph 40.) 2

70)

oe

Harotes F. Swenson
WH/C, /Se

    

  

gaou? t
weet

gh

   
 

104-10183-10420

ia oe ., t. : ,
wt RETURN TO CIA
. Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

 

7 SECRET

30 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Operational Comments relating to
oo AMWHIP and AMLASH Matters

_-REFERENCE: Contact Report on 22 & 23 June
Meetings with Carlos TEPEDINO i
_ “#
1. Friends of Carlos TEPEDINO may be useful in securing
information from or establishing contact with Cubans connected
with the regime, including those residing in Cuba, travelling
outside or stationed outside, Carlos.should report on such
possibilities so {jyptwe pay. Sve lute thes aud follow through
when appropriate. ° — and as
examples, might furnish leads.) p4 persons 0 fypoSsible terest A
inside Cubd such as Comandante NIEVES) (Luis soto and(Marcelino®
ARTIME probably would be useful” target nly if their use could
be compartmented completely from the AMLASH operation. (See
page 1, paragraph 1 and page 8 paragraph 4 of reference.)

 

 

 

2. In evaluating reports or considering operations, we
should be mindful of Rolando's mistrust of ARTIME and respect
for RAY. (See page 6 paragraphs 16 and 17.)

‘ 3. The expectation that an assassination of Fidel CASTRO
may be attempted on 26 July 1965 coincides with that of
ESPINOSA, Although neither has hard current information, an
intelligece dissemination attributed so as to disguise the
sources may be in order. Reporting after the fact would not
be impressive. (See page 7 paragraph 18.)

“ 4, The confirmation of Rolando's disenchantment with the
Agency is all the more reason to be wary of him and his close
cohorts. They well might attempt to make good on the previously
expressed threat to blame the Agency if their plans fail and they
are caught. Any unnecessary contact with disgruntled members
of the group increases the risk that the charges could stick.
{See page.10 paragraphs 37 and 38.)

 

SECRET
