 

 

 

1.

3.

b.

wr.

é.

7 vicinity of Marcove.

ran

APOK

Hecepe Story of Peter NIEGUT  -

QOn- 2). June i9Si Petur NIXCLOV escaped fron Suilgaria to Oreece with hig

brother, Ivan NIXMAV, retur and "kris PELTEXO¥, and three Truucvaks,

Stefan PELGLG!, 22

wreko TAVALOV, and Spas XATCIN. In Greece he wag

intervogated by JARAGSCAN, GALATEA, DIC, BRISER, Gasp, and QAsP/'8.

On the urging of Ancel ae Tsnao¥, the loader of the underground group in

Markowo, Peter NINGLC?

araa in Yaron 1952.

ined the underground organizstion in the Plovidiy
organization were Angel CXAROV

 

 

Leading genbears of th

of Tlovite, Second Lieutenant "ikolaWILZnz67 of Plovdiv, and Angel

HRISTOZOY and Kikol
officer in Plovwiv,

. NIXOLOVY knew stout

a TOOCROY of Uarkovo., Vasil LAZAROY, a non-comn ssioned
had an important role in the organisation. .

the existence of the Gorjand restatance group in the

Rhodopi and Belzan Yountains. Besides ita gebéral anti-Comminiat activities,
the underground organization in the Plovdiv area had the task of aiding the
Gorjani ty supplying them with food, weapons, and ammunition. Informant
never saw pe Jorjani, tut ons of his dutice was to collect arms and
anzunitica for the Jorjani and deliver thea to Angel Hristosov sho had
tontact with the Gorjani and delivered armament to them.

Similar underground

organisations have been organized in the villages of

Relashtica, Fardinandovo, Sv. Spas, iavor, Komativo, ail cf whch | are in
— —

#9 Pacvaly area.

Gn 7 May 1991 NIXOLOVY received orders froa Angst CKARGY to take care of

three deserted Trut

ovand, Spas RACKIN, Zorevko DAMJANOV, and Stefan PELTEXOV.

None of toaa were known to UIKCLOY. NIAQLOY wea given whe recomnition
aipnal (whistling) and was told that tra threes Trudovaks had been inducted

into the orzanizatior

and cooperate witn.
until a guide cane
would fina tae trud
able to contact the

The naxt day, 8 Yay
Stefay PELTINOW. oN

 

and he was jotated
RLSTOZCY contucred 2,

OT ave the Tr
and a hart prenade.

 

 

On ? tay the Trutov
SiCJANC T wre sac wsi

on ty Vasil LAZARCY, @ person whem NLKOLUY could trust
Hea was Lold that the Trudovaks should ve fed and armed
to take them to the Gorjani. NIKOLOV was told that he
lovaxs in a wooded area near Belshtica. NIKCLOV wus not

Trudovaxs that night.

» TIKOLOV with Vasil LAZAROV, contacted Spas RAIN and
“ took over the Trutovaxs and hid then in the

fae thirt Tridovac, Zdravco DANJANOY, waa aliasing,
the same night by argal HEJSTOZOV in Branipelo.
CALCANOY tu the hiding place ¢f the other two Teudoraks.
udevaks food, tares old Turkieh rifles with a: unition,

 

dat “heir hiding place ty lvan iodaror
“2 ytrale tne weapons they had received

  

avn Ware vis
‘ta mites

 

esr
 

i

041017810165

 

Wee ROE PR REM meeRtReE eR nat nt apm spe

Tal

ATOR

——— - “a o>
AL z
Agser teen

DATE: sevenb dt ATIALY dS

 

 

Tt ghter, DP 16
27, [5-
FROM + [Chief of Station, Ataens T
SUBECT, empan— Opurutianal
srenc- Peter NILOLOY .
22 22
Referance~ | PALJA-S:195 U65; 60655 /aTiN-7629 5

Attached herewith {s subject's story of his part in the escape of the
seven bodies seationed in the first reference. The report was prepared

ty REISER. .

-

ReBest

Attachment - a9 daseribed
above.

2 = MASH

-A-Bea.
1 - Subj
1 - chron

amNy 51-28 A

 

Cie cw HO. PP see 4

 
 

SP MTR ane NP ane tr

thee era cane A on pie opm ee Sn EMEA TEE) NAD! a MRT SR ee eR RN AD eH ey

8.

9.

During the night of 9-10 May NIKOLOV, on criers of Vasil LAZAROY, took
the Trudovaka to a hiding place in Jola tesila, which is 20 kLlonstera
south of Markovwo. Then LAZANCY and the Trudovass arrived there they
found Vasil [AZAROV and his wife Maria waiting for thea. NIKCLOV left
tha, and [AZTAROV aid his wife rorained with thea all the next day,

10 Hay 1951, Maria LACAROVY ia a sister of Stefan PALTEXOV.

According to Peter NIKOLOV, HRTSTOZOV ordere! Peter's brother, Ivan
NIKOLOV, to provide tha Trudoveks with fomi. Ivan cargied food several
timas to Gola Mogila, but after being questioned about it by tus police
he ceased to do so. Later the foou was supposed to have been taken by
Boris PELTEXOY, uncle of one of the three Trudovaks. 2

HIKOLOV sew the Trodovaks in Plovdiv and Narkove on 1h bb Bay and he gave
them food and « blanket. —_

On 15 or 16 May Ivan NIXOLOV brought Iliev GIUROV to Gola Mogila. GUIROY
was to guide the Trudovaks to the Gorjant because there nas no guide
available to take thea tq Greece. Tha foliowing day GIUROY was arrested
and there wea no ona else to taka thes to tha Gorjani.

Following the arrest of Vasil LAZAROV every precaution was taken to pre-

vent tre police from locating the Trudovaks. Their lecation was changed
geveral times.

S June Pater NIKOLOV was arrested hy State Security, He was interrogated
and beaten by the Security agents in an effort to sake his admit his
connection with the Trudovacs. NIKGLOV refused to adnit anvthing until
he was shown a statamsnt simed by Vasil LAZAROV to the erlect that Peter
had cooperated with LAZAROVY in hiding tis Traiovaks. He saw that LAZAROV
had given awey the entire organization so he decided to talk. NIKOLOV
told about everybody wut Licutenant UUS.kov of Plowliy. Following his
confession Peter was forced to sign a statanant that ho was Joining State
Security under the name of *Hristo" and that he would obtain from his
brother Ivan the recognition sipials for contacting the Trudovaks. On
7 June NIKOLOY was released to contact his brother. He was told to report
back to the police by 1700 the same day. Whea NIXCLOY want back to the
palice he told tham that he was not able te Tind his brother and tnat he
would try again the next day. Actually Poter had mes his trother Ivan on
the Harkovo~Ploviiv rosd, ant he had explained the s.tuation to .om and
told ala to warn Angel HRTSPOZOV and others xho gigh! be compromiged uy
LAZAROV's and his om confessions, Peter sursested wat everyone who was
in danger go the next day to Gola Mogile, from where they would ieave for
Greece.
 

1 negro rman ve

 

 

o ereees ate Sear gentneoe es

Us.

15.

16.

27.

19.

 

Pearcy

The police anthorities told feter HixCTOV te werk his usual nicht giift
(7-8 June) at the Lactory in Plovdiv where ho was employei. After sork
he was taken by the police to Markcve and was ordered *c cituan the

L weeegnition signals. Ee was aleo eriared to bring the Trudcovaxs the

next day to a coffee shop between Plowitv and Yarkovo, and he was
instructed as to now he shou.d behave upoa entering the shop if the
Trudovaks were armed, unaruwed, or did not come. He was then allowed

to go hone.

Then NIKOQLCV arrived at hone after being released by the police, he found
his 'rother there. Ivan told him ti.at ke had carried out Peter's crders,
but that Angel HRISTOZOV and the others did act want to leave because they
felt sure that they would be able to place all the’ guilt on the NIKOLOV
brothers who were escaping.

Barly in the morning of 6 June Peter and I Ivan NIKOLOV left their home and
headed toward Gola Mogila, where they joined the Trudovaks. No policesen
were seon in the area. At Gola Mocila they waited for Boris and Poter
PLCLTEXOV until 10 June, and then all of them started toward the dreck
borde- which they cruesed without incident cn 19 Jume. They surrendered
to the Greek authorities on 21 Juns. . .

Peter had imown Vasil LAZAROT as a child, but he had not seen hin for
a#ix years until the tim: of the Trudovas offair, He knows that LATAROV
wag chalmman of the Comsunist rout. urganization.in Selashtica. NIKCLOV
thinks that LACAROY may hava been a double agent, but if he had really
wented ta betray the croup he had azple opportunity to do so. In any
case NIKOLOV feels that [ACAROV did not act in good faith because he
promised the Trudovaks 4 guide to Greac* while he actually intended to
send them to the Gorjani. NIKGLOV did not knew the Trudovaka, but he had
Reard of Peter and Boris PELTEKCV, and he considers them to be nationalists
even though he had some migunderstandirgs with the: during the flight to
Greece. Among the Trudovaks he likes Spas RAIKIN best.

After being laefé.alone at the Lavrion Camp for a consideratle tine, Peter
and Ivan NIKCIOY applied for imiigration to Brasil. In the beginning they
vere willing to stay in Greece and fight Commnism in bulgaria. Thay
expressed to RBIGER thelr willingness to go missicas into Bulgaria, tut
REISE sade no commlitmenta. Since no action was taken, both left for
Brasil 17 Noveaber 1751.

Comment. The operational value of the brotherg was not ver7 high,
Gipecially after the arrest of some members of the underground organiaat{on
in the Plovdiv area. Neverthaless, they are willing and sdle te try gone-
thing. In the future more rapid action should be taxon in onier to prevent
prospective agents from becoming discouraged and leaving.

KAPOK
