74-0000

 

 

announcing his intention and that the tapes were not
available simply because Gmirkin was not available as
no advance arrangements had been made; however, this
is speculation. Blakey then said that the reporter
had been put in a room with a typewriter but was told
he could not use that typewriter because it belonged
to someone who was on leave, and that a half day was
lost while he waited. I characterized the story as
"wild". I said it was difficult for me to believe
that a grown man could not make his needs known in the
modern age of telephones. Blakey asked if I wanted
this in writing. I said that I was sure that anyone
who would tell that story would be willing to put it
in writing. He then said that some of his people
thought that we “were hassling them again." I laughed
at that and replied that the witness was the one who

was being hassled and that it was a matter of great

personal import to him, and that was the only thing I
was concerned about. I could not break my word to
Nosenko and would not, but I would explore what we
might do. Blakey asked me to get word back to the
HSCA chief clerk, Miss Elizabeth Berning.

3. I arranged throu £ and LA Division,
after discussion with Mr. to have a cable
sent to Gmirkin. He and Nosenko were scheduled to
arrive at their next stop Wednesday evening. The
re est_was_whether Nosenko would accept me in lieu
of for Thursday, Friday and Monday as guardian
of the tapes. Unfortunately, the scheduled flight was
reported as cancelled, and travel had to be by an
indirect route, spending Wednesday night at a different
location. The travel could not be completed until
Thursday afternoon. I called Miss Berning this morning
and reported to her that travel problems had delayed
a response and that the transcriber could not have
access to the tapes today. I arranged with her to
call her at home this evening, based on arrangements
I had made to be notified as soon as word is received
in response to our earlier inquiry. Assuming that
Nosenko accepts me as a substitute I will so advise
Miss Berning and she will arrange for a transcriber
to work at the Agency on Friday and Monday.

4, Finally, Nosenko authorize? by cable my
handling the tapes, while is away. The HSCA
has missed one day's transcription, but will get

 
 

[toatotar-toieg]

   

CUP Gas ope REE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Handling of Tapes of Nosenko's Testimony

1. The testimony of Nosenko on 19 and 20 June,
during the Executive Session of the HSCA at CIA, was
recorded under special agreement. Nosenko would not
agree to the recording unless the tapes were to be
held at CIA by someone personally acceptable to him--
in this case, Vasia Gmirkin. When we realized that the
testimony had not been transcribed and that Nosenko
and Gmirkin were to be in an extended tra
we arranged to have Gmirkin's supervisor,
approved by Nosenko to handle and protect these tapes.
The HSCA finally provided this week a court reporter
experien¢ged—i anscribing tapes. When it was learned
that Mr. would be out of town on Thursday and
Friday of this week and Monday of next week it was
realized by HSCA that the tapes would not be available
for use on these days. Mr. Blakey phoned on Tuesday
asking that arrangements be made.

 

 

- 2, I told Blakey that I was not in a position to
unilaterally modify the agreement that he and I had with
Nosenko. The testimony was recorded only because of the
special personal arrangements that were acceptable to
Nosenko. We had arranged for a substitute acceptable

to Nosenko, but unfortunately he is going to be away for
three of the days that the Committee had hoped to work

on the transcript. I pointed out to Mr. Blakey that we
had been surprised at the delay in preparing the trans-
cript of the testimony, which was a contributing cause

to the present problem. Blakey then produced some horror
stories to build a case of our dereliction in this matter.
One story was that when the reporter came to transcribe
his notes, he was "denied" access to the tapes. I told
Blakey that this was very unlikely but that I could not >
recall the story and certainly did not recall being

asked about it; inquiry of Rodger Gabrielson confirmed
this. It is possible that the transcriber came without

 

RIS7SL
74-00000

 

 

Friday and Monday in, which otherwise would have been -
missed. And we have kept our commitment with Nosenko.

=p SD. B fA

S.D. Breckinridge
Distribution:
Orig - OLC/Subj
1 - OLC/Chron
1 - SA/DDCI

CONFIDENTIAL
