 

104-10171-10007

 

nancial contre Y BTS ‘tie * jeroct
‘For, to draw an analo;
nt pokitics.at

 

producia; and*.

ts for the stat

‘control of the susiacss jarteents
that cficctive oyrect nandbing ef tie A
not be sustaines anless we funded tac
in turn not onl uld inevitably. a
control. xe have been ab

‘student ‘activists tut

in the deaucratic canp,

operational iunding policies have

 

 

The Station appreciates waat could bes
in other circumstances turough virect
funding‘ of cither or wath of tne ATA
capabilities und interest of our assets
deaocratic leavers cissipate, and as new
the Cixcd-focus of ts Ames snould auger
handling so as to create new, successor agen
in- this” sense vperatiens in and tac outc
elections next £211 could iii

e; however, in susnati i

believes tnat the tho A‘sARSs ine

the deaocratic student moveacnt

from their uctivitics witaout direct Stat
that direct handling aad funding of tae Ad
present tise could afgect the Station's handling’ and:
funding of its indigenous assets; that ifan
necessary. the Station cau cirect and cund
on an unwitting basis througa AITEASE-L (0)
oticr appropriate inve;endent assets if so”
and that, in tac meantiae, the station wil
monitor the ANoARLSs' activities with a vi
when direct contact aud funding will “provic
advar tages.

 

 

   

The present two-slot.

adequate’ in view of tieir aad our eurtene act
the Jenocratic student faccion at tae Un
gradually improving outlook for the denocr
resurgence in tne fall clections. Ideally
ment of ANBARO-43 with a more active, more
vetter prepared and trained leader, on a p
kind of activist AMcARs-34 appears to he
ANSARS's local progras; although NV! TEASE

student assets accest ana th ink well of bot
it is quite evident that ASAku-34 is cons raply’ ahead

of ANBARB+435 inthe ¢ alities indicated, The planned
naxiwua of four slors is velicved teusiple, put on the
basis that ‘Gitional representatives. dispatched
ve charged with prisary sissions ia tne fichi of secondary-

 

 

 

ee a Fie ation

EDITION. |
eae | EERE : CTeonrmute

amen ame oasoute.

 
104-10171-10007

 

   

“Upersat dona l/GYRusk/ ae
Goacents on the MASS Prograa

 

For veur inforaation, as reuttested ii
: WINES “ook Disgatel No. S201 ,

Released under the John F.fKennedy Assassination .

Records Collectiqn Act of 1992.

mo, (44 USC 21q7 Note) ts

NW-53295-6/15/17

  
  
   

The Station welcered the Reference for its guidance
the AISARS prograt and its exyosit of tieadquarter:
~-experic¢nce and planning relstive ea

    

“2, Tag Station considers that at present there are
insufcicient advantages to be gained through direct
handling and funding of ANGARD-340 and ANSAR3~45.

 

a. lo begin with, the Station kas noted generally
ecfective reciprocal collaseration between Cac two
AN3ARB represcntatives and certain Station student
assets, other incepensent denocratic student
leaders, and ANTEASE+1. In tilis collaboration the
Station's student assets aave taken advantaze of
the AMSARs' prese and assistance; and -tie
“Station, througi ASSL, ha

- and aid the AMsARSS ‘oO
illustrate, in June the Aus?
people an assortuent of photo epicting
persecutions, executicns, Forced Yabor, and so
forth in their hoacland, | Those photograpns Wiat o>
lent theaselves student themes they gave cefit EST-1
and his group who, using appropriate captic
prepared and obtained Locally through tne U5AR3s,
wade a display of then in a bulletin board-type
showcase they ¢ mtrol at the University, an
operation wintahfuy EST-1 reported had: much iapact
anong the student ~ody and put tne Connunist leaders
on the spot. Turning to AMEASE-1 for assistance in...

fan ni” exploiting the photographs, the latter arranged for :

“2. ganstruction ef an exhibit. and for its. placenent in
the offices of the: Confeveracion de Trabajadores de
la Republica de Panaaa,. the local ORI ftiliate,
Then later on, in aid-July, ANTEASE*}.and AISAR3-3
took the exhipit to Chiri :
received further exploitation, in furtherance of
ANTEASE-1's propaganda activities. he Stativn,
accordingly, was able to monitor both operations and,
in the case of Cransperting the exhibit to the =~
interior, it alse provided funds. .

 

  

be Seth ANSARBS are in with tae University student
leaders with weoa the Station has Leen working
, oairectly gs xell ag indi ectly--0.9 2% bptsi-t,
. . : ATPANY = DT EYQARY = FF Lay 3, and vario others
with actual or develoPing roles in local student
affairs, Already adie of using various dizferent
ding channels and nox ‘in liaison contact with
id-1, wiiose organization is expanding its

   
   

F apy. bas ot A wo
104-10171-10007

 

  
 
 
  

  

 

 
  

    

Station also could better develop:

_AYBARB Fepresentatives, we belicve

 
  

the sthtion, steered | AaN
accuanisas, or ‘transferred to” “tlie other A
concentrating ticir efforts at the University 1

ane di ;

   

    

 
 

int 9 secondary -schovl student.
divided attention, and nore c
into the oumunists* perennial-or
and: agitation in’ the puclic secon ary
capital area and the interior provinces te,
hand, if exclusively secondary+schoul student activities
are not witain the scone of an ANSARG representative's
assignuent, Chen it is felt that the addition of two
nore ARGs at tie university level, or even if on an
across-tie-voard basis, snould bear the condition that
tne new designces will not openly identify thenselves as
that .open identification
would necessitate tucir alligmsent with:
that the station, ANSARB=34,. and AYGARS
i

 

 
   
 

  
 
      

 
 

  

   

 

    
 
  

 

 
    
  

         
 
    

 

 

   

  
 
   

h as for theu.to operate
ld_cause,schisas‘ and po
atic Carces, whereupon

in the “sameaencral area
be. ‘counter=aroductive and, fron there, WW,
manpower and talent. As cstensible ind
covert operators, the two additional A
conceivavly work quietly to unite tne de ogratic Foreasr
t help Coordinate their anti-Co

 
   
     
 
  

 

 
 
 

   

 
    

 

ta respect to Panana as ‘ainoasints relocat
the Avi a

 

  
 

 

    
   

 
   
 

ae First, there is tac exclusively intern
. h

   

 

   
 

point, As

this Statio Fe aw

its plant a xe ver, aS enna ‘su
and ‘services ber vot local and urea-

 

. and” operational support jursoses, and
operating base. for various kin
SGOOVE ofCicers wna cover tac :

      
   
 
   

   
 

Courier, Center here j Provides the. Jtati
dispatca and receipt “oF lateral poucieé:
wide vasis., To the Field Case oFLicer.
quarters gresuaadly would asgi x
preoccu;ation as‘to using aate BAC

“accrue also tne tacters of favoravlé Living conditions
(especially if a fauily man) and good ogeratin; clinate.

       

 

      
  

  

         

   
 

 

ee
CU aasiFic A TON

en evious eortion. |
Laces ronus 1
°

 

 
 
 

104-10171-10007

 
   

ae atce ty!

 
  

 

   
  

CONTINUATION OF
7 “77. DISPATCH
. yon a
2% b, :As for ti
oe ‘not forcs t tie host
‘its relucat rere Vere tue

 
  
   
   

  
 
 

 

nove. coniiucted discreet ly;
lic, once clued to tie sinift,
tently oppose it proviced t
lux of peuple not actually cz
by the org: ion who would be regarded as cr
.t. undue coapetition in the doacstie : aployecat
Auuitional ‘consivcFations . ate Vanana's aspect.
nortit-south international air junction and wor
Shiyping crossroads; the availability of upetoedate . :
office facilities and counercial services at * ot "
uninf fated costs (at least by coaparison to wiut
.Overnead costs would be in suenos Aires and Caracs
and the” Tavorable chvironncnt mid AMSARE- jungle

aents arid
tie general
resist or “consi
be no sudden:

 
    
    
  

   
  
 
 
 
     
 

 

   

    

 

   

 
  
  

long- tera real estate und strate;ic interests

it would he only to a lesser degree taat the AN3

organization's ‘foes and detracters could use the

Sane propaganda attacks currently directea at a

organization in its ‘present location,

6. The odservations given in tie preceding paragrapir should
not be construed-oy Headquarters as a bid for relocation
of the ANUARS-organization in Vanana. Pather, they:
represent and. “given as an inforiaal-consensus
Station opinio y.not. take ‘into account, a
things, relocation prospects in other countries.
specific, peculiar ‘requirements of voth KUBARK

AMvARL orgdnization<

  
  
 

  
   
 
 
  

 

.
a

5
ED? iat oe 5 Gene

 

  

L August 1962
Distribution: oS
“ ygr?-= Chiet, Task Force EY 4,

 

2 + Caiel, iil Fee. tu w
2 + Files .

 

use ORT VIOUS EOITION.
REPLACES FORMS

ae? 580 . $128, 85-284 AND 61-20
“RMICH ARE OSSOLETE.

  
