13-09000 . + : i :
@ | SECRET | 4

3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message .
regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962 which mentioned .
a' Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman } in Mexicos’!.. :
who obvicusly had had contact. of some kind with CAIN, aa well as with.
a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that.
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. Il (Acopy ef this memo-
vandam is attached). In answer to this massage which requested traces _ ~
on GAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard-
ing him, advised that neither. his claimed employment by OSS, noraclaim -
he made to have worked with Task Foree W, could be substantiated, Thea —
Station was advised that he: did have ° (or had had) a legitimate detective
laboratory in. Chicago. : oars
o4, with reference to Willard ANDREW ‘Se ‘Security indices: contain
noe record. I helisve the individual referred to is Wylys ANDREWS, = 0.0.
(Edward) Wyllys ANDREWS I¥, $2769, a former OSS/CIA employee wha
has lived in Mexico for many years and has contimed to have social con-.
ne; tacts with representatives of this Agency in Mexico as well as with Agency
oe, '. employees from Headquasters who visit him from time to time. -- ANDREWS,
ke CAIN, .was born in Chisnge's of Parents > who also were born in. the. general
‘erea of Giicages+ wma fit Zo :

 

 

 

 

 

      

5. The Sire time CAIN: came to o the attention of the Secusity Office
was a when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request
. stemmed-from an unannounced visit he made to the.Station, during which ©
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in :
Chicago and Low Angelés. ‘He had also stated that his agency in Mexico. . an
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in pelice :
methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector; : -
; and had added that he. was investigating Communism ina certain unnamed | :
oo Gentral American country. Le

         

 

Se ! 6 In Jute 1962, the Mexico Station ‘advised that. CAIN ‘wan being
; , deported by the’ Mexican Ministry {of} Gobernacion for. these: wiolations:,:
. mo a 24 dee tie waticwg Ae C
‘Sarzying a Toaded revolver and brase keauclten

     
  

  

4 Violating ! his tourist t permit by working at his.
detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

 
 

mee @ SECRET @

Chief, SBS og: October 1967

Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS ”

  
  
 
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  

M. D. ‘Stevens :

 

: ‘ ” Reference ia made | to > the attached 5 Jane 1967 DCS mem:
: randuse 0 on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous pes |
snemoranda on him on 24 and 25, May 1967 and te an Office of Security:
memorandum dated 29 May 1967... The 5. June 1967 memorandum, si...
enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents. from the Chicago.
Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS.with,
the comment that ''It appears DCS is cleaning out. their files re Lee -
Harvey osw ane et ab’ :

 

     

 

: - Subject. iti is obvious, had been a source of information .
ceperdtag an alleged disecnssion of the assassination of President .
.. Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Piay for Cuba Committee.
. held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard.. .
| CRILEY ($346.116)., He also was the source of information regarding ~.
-. the alleged attempted reeruitment into the Communist Party of young |
- Gubane in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accords,
- ing to the Chicago office was "one of Horace SPEED's (SAS) leads...
.. obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ;. #444260).
'. SPEED. is Horace. SPEED Il, 3499499... The documents. also indicated .
. that in February 1964 GAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated |
by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS.
Chicago office who believed his purpose was.te learn whether or_not,.;
CAIN was in fact on a two-month! s. sick leave froma the COOK. County
Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was ona political under
cover assignment which COHEN inferred involved tapping the tela-
phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other -
political figures. . tug tnblgs ot att woe

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   

 

 
 

CHOW? t
Exctsded from automalls
éawngrading 226
wo @ SRT

T. Subject was subsequently of interest te the DCS in ‘September, :
1963 when an ad hee clearance was requested to permit his being asked
te respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain -.
Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence.’ On
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
much vf the above information on + CAIN,

   

ey 8. On 22 ‘May 1967, the : Director of f Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which tise Subject to the Mafia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information ae

as to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, ifso,. 1° |

for what purpese.’. The DCS wis alse to be advised that) if they. were

_ im contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off: On:25 1

May 1987, the DGS advised that thers had been no cositact with. CAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies-of sight reports ior which Subject had
been the source of information. These had to-do with anti-Castzo: Cuban a

activities, procurement. of armay: etay : ae

 

  

 

  

Be on29 May 1967, Security advised the pes that there iz a
current FSi investigative interest in Subject and recommended that —
there be ne farther contact with:/bim’st this tims.: : ‘
> ne es .
Jes 40. ‘The I September 1967 copy. of Life. magazine contains an.
article titled ‘Brazen Empire of Organised Crime;!": in which it is me
stated that Sam GLANCANA, ‘Head of the: Chicago Cosa Nostra, is:"still °~
running things by remote contre! from a hide-out in Mexico... where 9
he poses as Riccardo SCALZETTI. The real SCALZETT!I, GIANGANA's
erst while chauffeur and courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans aa‘:
| Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and mere’ recently
2 private investigator." mie

   

 

   

    

- u . Eldon 8. COMEN who ia mentioned in paragraph 2 of this. :
memorandum as having evidenced an interast in CAIN during the guber=
sgpiese | ; natorial campaign of the now Senator (from Dlinsis) Charles H. PERCY, |
: . #178329 and JEE-21773, is now PERCY's Executive Assistant. COHEN, ;

whe became empleyed by PERCY in January 1964, following hig resigna--
tion from CLA which was efiective 31 December 1963, at the time he con- — -

_tacted a representative of the Chicago Offices of DCS regarding CAIN on _.

10 February 1964, did not indicate that he was employed by PERCY. He
said, rather, that he'd been adked by the "PERCY for Governor" people :
to inquire aa'to CAIN's status. ;

 

 
 

© sere @

‘ , €

i2. During the time COHEN was a CIA employee (1949-1963), he

 

 

was then .

 

COHEN on an ad hoe basis to participate in the briefing and debriefing -

; operational information or exotic material. .

dacided to put him on a job in FBIS

|At the time of his resignation, he was an  _ >
I, ©. Contact, GS-14, in the Chicago Office of the pps Of Contact . ee
Division. Te oo

 

 

  

13. In January 1965, the pes ‘requested approval toc contact, —

 

of his employer, Senator PERCY, “who planned ; an extensive tour of the .
Far East, In June 1967, Mr. George CARY, Lagislative Counsel, oe,
requested a check on COHEN stating that there may be occasion to brief

him from time to time. According to Mr. CARY; COHEN would be .

briefed generally on the build up in Cuba but would not be spose”

  

. A COHEN is currently of interest to this Cifice i in connection ;

“with an approach which ‘was made to him by the Second Secretary of

the Romanian Embassy in Washington, An FBI report of 16 August 1967 .
on Victor DOROBANTU, the Second _ Secretary, noted tha approach but |

failed to indicate under what circumstances COHEN furnished the
information, regarding his

 
 
 

B. “There is attached a

antic: ies in Life magazine, in one of which he Rbowe ia. “@eacribed| as ‘the erst-.
while chauffeur and courler of Sam GIANGANA, . “The second. of these |
articlés makes reference to alleged frisndly.c contacts. of Jim nag esac ;

 

M. D. Stevens : :
Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

 
