18-00000

‘early June, McCone suggested forming a committee to negotiate such a

release. Robert Kennedy was generally sympathetic, but did not at
that time request covert support for the project. The subject was
left for.further discussion, with an agreement that it would not be
discussed with anyone in CIA, Defense, or State who was active in
Cuba operations.

In mid-July, McCone and Robert Kennedy reviewed.the Cuban
situation in considerable. detail. Kennedy thought that, although
considerable intelligence had been acquired, the program's action
phases had been disappointing. Shortly after, McCone had the
opportunity to review MONGOOSE with the President. Since the
beginning of February, McCone reported, nine intelligence collection.
teams (about half the originally-planned number) had been infiltrated
into Cuba and maintained in place, thousands of Cuban refugees had
been systematically interrogated in Florida, and a number of ©
third-country agents recruited inside Cuba, U-2 overflights were
being. conducted on a regular two-a-month schedule. The operation was

costing the CIA about $1 million per month in direct costs and even

more in indirect support costs.

Although McCone was skeptical about the aims and operations of
MONGOOSE, he believed the CIA bore a special responsibility to
collect intelligence on Cuba. He therefore told the President that
this collection effort had produced a substantial amount of hard
intelligence on conditions inside Cuba, and a continuation would

provide additional intelligence, possibly revealing opportunities for

WORKING prarT 77 BY NO. 018-88
Handle via /BYEMAN Control System . copyA of 2
41

TOPMSBCRET_
Vac
political, guerrilla or insurgent activities designed to overthrow
Castro. McCone added, however, that many individuals felt that more
dynamic actions were called for, including mass landings and military
activity. McCone did not agree. Our intelligence, he said, did not
support this point of view, and any such attempts would face disaster
unless the United States -was prepared to commit large military forces
to support them. .

In the meantime, Castro had officially cast his lot with the
Soviet Union, and indications were increasing that the USSR was
willing to invest substantial amounts of money, not only to keep the
Cuban leader afloat, but to enhance his capability to create mischief
for the United States. After 1 February 1962, our U-2 flights over
Cuba increased from one to two per month, and intelligence reports
revealed steady Soviet shipments of military as well as economic aid.

On August 4, McCone learned that eleven Soviet ships believed to
be carrying arms were bound for Cuba. McCone asked for further
details. On August 5, he received a breakdown on the ships, and he
directed immediate U-2 coverage (which began the following day).

According to reports, up to 5,000 Soviet technicians had arrived, in

‘addition to military communications equipment. The preliminary U-2

readout, however, was not very helpful, and another flight was
planned for August 11.

On August 10, McCone met with Secretary of State Dean Rusk,

presidential military adviser General Maxwell Taylor, McGeorge Bundy,

Deputy Secrety of Defense Roswell Gilpatric and the Attorney
WORKING eye GG = BY NO. 018-88

Handle via BYEMAN]Cont rol System | : copy of 2
. 42

TOP-seeaet_
McCone was careful to warn the President and Attorney General that he

 

anticipated no quick or easy road to success. | b—

 

 

ninety percent of all Cubans supported Castro, while McCone added
that of twenty-seven or twenty-eight CIA agents in Cuba, only twelve
presently were in communication. Contact even with these was
infrequent, and an additional team of seven, infiltrated in December,
had been captured (with two featured on a television "confession"
show).

Nevertheless, ata Spécial Group meeting in April 1962, McCone
urged a review of our national policy toward Cuba and asked that we
consider more aggressive action, including direct military

intervention. Noting that various intelligence reports suggested

' that Castro was in deep trouble, he questioned whether the military

strength of the Castro government was as large and as effective as
had been understood. In response to objections that such a course
might lose us friends in Latin America, McCone countered that a show
of strength was more likely to win than lose us friends.

Shortly thereafter, McCone learned from the Attorney General that
there was some movement afoot to exchange our prisoners from the Bay
of Pigs for food. (Castro had offered to release the prisoners in
exchange for a large quantity of drugs and medicines). Later, in
WORKING DRAFT 77 BY NO, 018-88

Handle via (BYEMAN/ Control System copy J of 2
40
13-00000

covert activity which, because of its impact, could, if exposed,

‘reflect on the official position of the United States. Thus, a

sizeable activity aimed solely at intelligence collection through
clandestine methods could come under the Group's scrutiny.
Conversely, small political actions, with little flap potential,
could be undertaken without referring the activity to the Group.

The Kennedys, however, were sufficiently alarmed over the threat
of Communist subversion and covert aggression that, in January 1962,
another special committee, Special Group (Counterinsurgency),
appeared. Largely the brainchild of General Maxwell Taylor, Special
Group (CI) aimed at identifying those areas where an insurgent threat
existed or threatened to emerge, directing the use of appropriate
resources to counter that threat.

In practice, the CIA had always been reluctant to expose its

activities to an interdepartmental body. The Defense Department had

been similarly reluctant to submit its extensive program of
peripheral reconnaissance flights to Special Group review, although,
beginning in June 1961; the group began to consider these flights.
The Special Group's influence depended, in the final analysis, on the
attitude of the President and the Special Group chairman, as well as
on the temper of the DCI. Allen Dulles served as an advocate for the
CIA's proposed activities. John McCone took the position that, as
DCI, he was a personal adviser to the President and thus free to
approve or disapprove the CIA's proposals as he saw fit.

The entire Cuban situation was difficult from the outset, and

WORKING DRAFT 99 BY NO, 018-88
Handle via (SYEMAN] control System copy 8 of 2
39
TOP"sSEenes.
13-00000

BOP—SECRET..

supported the notion of dynamic action, but urged that such action

not be reckless. -Conséquently, he recommended that the Lansdale

group report to the 5412 oversight committee, which was properly

‘qualified to give political guidance and evaluate proposals for

action. In addition, although McCone agreed the facilities of all
agencies should be made available for such high-priority operations,
he emphasized that these should remain in place and not be removed to
form a new unit under Lansdale.

In this way, MONGOOSE, as it came to be known, was launched,
With the White House's decision to go ahead (keeping the 5412
Committee fully informed), McCone proceeded to discuss the Lansdale
operation with top Agency officials. Acknowledging that the project
had to be closely held--Lansdale had asked that the CIA's
representative, Richard Helms, report only to the DCI--McCone
nevertheless stated he intended to skip no appropriate echelon of the
Agency, as such a course would deprive him of the advice of other
senior officers. Action would be at the Helms level, and the Agency
would offer Lansdale all necessary support and assistance, but
without ‘excluding the participation of other Agency members within
the strict security guidelines laid down by the President. Further,
McCone directed the Board of National Estimates and the DD/I to
undertake a continuing evaluation of MONGOOSE, viewing such
Precautions asa major step toward overcoming the compartmentation
which had excluded the DD/I from any advance knowledge of the Bay of.

Pigs landing.

Handle via

_ WORKING rey 74 BY NO. 018-88

BYEMAN) Control system : copy da of 2
37

POR-GECREL.
13-00000

TOP SEGREL

Significantly, McCone insisted on bringing analytical and
estimative functions to bear on Cuban operations from the beginning.
Further, he insisted that truly clandestine actions be small. Most

importantly, he required that careful records be kept of actions and

' conversations, himself setting an example by keeping meticulous

memoranda for the record.

MONGOOSE represented McCone's first working encounter with Robert
Kennedy. The Attorney General, McCone immediately realized, was a
dynamic force with a keen interest in the intelligence community, as
well as a strong influence on the President. “MeCone became quite
close to him. MONGOOSE also reinforced McCone's awareness of the
extent of the administration's obsession with Cuba. He consequently
accepted as a personal charge the administration's desire to
overthrow Castro. He was not, however, about to allow Lansdale or
anyone else dictate the use of CIA sources. Had he detached Agency
resources for Lansdale’s use, McCone would have lost control. He
further insisted on the checks and balances of 5412 committee
overview.

The Special Group (5412 Committee), made up of the Special
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Deputy
Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of State for Political
Affairs, the Director of Central Intelligence, and other appropriate

representatives, had been established in 1955 by National Security

Council Directive 5412/2 to provide interdepartmental coordination of

covert actions. In general, the Group's cognizance extended to any
WORKING DRAFT 97 BY NO, 018-88

Handle via [BYEMAN] Control System copyaA of 2
38

TORSSEEEES

be.
   

CHAPTER IV

In the meanwhile, Cuba remained a sore point for both the CIA and
the Kennedys.

Shortly after the Bay of Pigs, President Kennedy asked General
Maxwell Taylor to chair a small commission, consisting of Robert
Kennedy, Allen Dulles and Admiral Arleign Burke, to investigate.
Highly critical of the piecemeal and acquiescent administrative
decisions which. had accompaned the operation's progress, ‘the Taylor.
report was mild in comparison with the severely critical internal
report prepared by CIA Inspector General Lyman Kirkpatrick.

Robert Kennedy alse produced a personal Bay of Pigs .report to the
President, which he discussed with McCone in late November 1961. The
Attorney General was especially critical of Richard Bissell, Deputy
Director for Plans, because Bissell had told the President the
operation was likely to succeed. Robert Kennedy was also highly
critical of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for spending only twenty

minutes studying the planned operation before making its first report

“to the President endorsing the operation.

It is worth noting that McCone was the only official in the

WORKING pRAFT 97 BY NO. 018-88
Handle Via [BYEMAN) Control System copy A of 2

Secon ch 34
KICROGR
x \ oo ORs
a
104-10301-10000) se : :
a : /64- Jpzol- | COCO

*

 

5

wy ° . :

ee

(° , TOP. SECRET

JOHN A. McCONE

THE SIXTH DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

Ly

~y ~ é
By ; cv
€ . oa Walter Elder
s Edited by. Mary S. McAuliffe, DCI Staff Historian
1987 *.
The attached is a draft history ; CL BY BYE-1
which has not been forwarded for DECL OADR
review outside the DCI History Staff. DERIVED FROM BYE-1
WORKING DRAFT oF BY NO. 018-88

a ; . copy gd of 2
Handle via (syeman] Control System :
: “ TOP SECRET

 

Ve /
13-00000

government privy to all the studies of the Bay of Pigs operation,
including the Taylor report, Robert Kennedy's personal report, the
Kirkpatrick report, and the views of the President's Foreign
Intelligence Advisory Board.

‘McCone did not dwell on the Bay of Pigs after he took office, but
he did draw several conclusions. Firmly believing the decision to go
ahead was a mistake, he nevertheless thought it an even worse mistake
to dismember the operation once underway, contending that the CIA
should have appealed directly to the President to reverse the
decision to stand down the air strikes. Concluding as well that the
members of the Taylor commission had been too closely involved with
the events to have sufficient perspective, he believed the CIA and
JCS had to bear special responsibility for advising the new President
to go ahead, since at that time these were the only two Washington
organizations dealing with international affairs which possessed
complete continuity.

Taking a detached view of the operation, McCone was able to
concentrate on what the Agency could do to avoid similar mistakes in
the future. Leery of large-scale operations involving the Agency's
paramilitary capability, McCone strove, with mixed results, to remove
the CIA from such enterprises. He also stressed the importance of
planning ‘an operation from beginning to end (an attitude which
dominated his approach during the Cuban missile crisis). Finally, he
insisted that the Agency's estimative function be privy to planned

operations, providing early and frequent judgments.

WORKING DRAFT 77. "BY NO, 018-88
Handle via [BYEMAN) Control System copyg of 2
35
hOP"SECRET
13-00000

‘ , “POP“SECRET™

Cuba, however, remained a subject of considerable concern. In
April 1961, shortly after President Kennedy established the Taylor
Commission, Presidential adviser Walt Rostow speculated that Cuba
might join with the Soviet Union in setting up an offensive air or
missile base. He additionally posed that Cuba might build its
conventional military strength and develop its subversive network to
threaten other Latin American nations from without and within. "Its
ideological contours are a moral and political offense to us," he
concluded, "and we are committed, by one means or another, to remove
that offense...." .

The Kennedy administration proceeded to address the situation

directly. At a White House meeting which McCone attended in late

‘November 1961, the President announced that General Edward Lansdale,

acting under the direction of the Attorney General, had already begun
to study possible actions to overthrow the Castro regime. These
covert activities, explained Robert Kennedy, included anything
possible to create internal dissension and discredit Castro. He then
proposed that, to accomplish this goal, Lansdale head up a committee
made up of representatives of Defense, State, USIA, and CIA, which
would cut across organizational lines.

McCone decided that the administration and the Agency both seemed
in a state of shock so far as Cuba was concerned. Although skeptical
from the beginning about the Lansdale program's prospects for
success, he nevertheless recognized that the CIA had a special role

and responsibility so far as Cuba was concerned. He himself

WORKING pRAFT 77 BY NO. 018-88
Handle via [BYEMAN Control. System copy J of 2
: 36

TOb—-GEGRE Te
