Lithuanian £52 x

8-H-C-R-b-T
LON ORGans KERB

 

or et

INFORMATION REPORT Rate debriefed: 22 Sept @
SUBJECT : Leedership of the KGB in the Provinces 196)

GOURCR =; aa NOSENKO |

Source prepared the following chart aad comments
ae a hegework ageignnent.

Leadership ef the EGE
in the Provinces

Restovskayn Oblest
Chief of the UXGB: TUFCHENKO, Yu. P.
Chief , 2nd Dept. UKGR: Col, GASILIN
Uxhgorodskays Oblast
Chief of the UEGB: Col, KOVSHAR‘
Deputy Chief of the UKGB; Col. LAYYDOY
Chief or Deputy Chief of a Section of the Zad
Bept: ASTRELIN

Moldavian 883

Chairasn KOR, Noldavekaya 88R: General GSAVCHENKO
(was chief ef the
First Chie? Directorate)

Dep. Chairwan KGB: Major or it. Col. KARASEV

2

Deputy Chairman, XGB, LitBuanian 682: Col. KONOPLENEKD
(wae chief of a
eection in Moscow
in 1860) :

8-B-~C-R-E-T

8
13-00000
a

§~3-C-2-E-T

Volgogradskaya Oblast
Chiez UEGB: Major Gen. IL‘ ICHEV
Deputy Chief UKGB: Col. YESIEOV, B.S.
Chief @ad Dept: Col. BELOV
Georgian S82
Chairszas KGB: Major Gen. INAURI
Chief Sad Dept: Cel. EERVALISHVILI
Dep. Chief 2ad Dept: Lt. Col. NOVITSELY
Chief ef a Section of the Bnd Dept: Hajer Ya. 8. GOKIYELI
Ukrainian 882 :
Chairman EGB: Major General NIKITCHEREO
Dep. Chairman KGB: Col. SHUL'ZHENKO (Party worker)
Dep. Chairman EGB: Col. ERIKUN (was chief of 3nd Directorate
Chieg Sad Directorate since 63: Col. BRAZHKO (prier to
this he was chief ef UEGB
in Khar'’zev fer 2 years --
Party worker)
Dep. Chief Gnd Directorate: Col. I... BULDAEOYV
Chief, Ist Dept of 2nd Directorate RGB: Lt. Cel. A. KOVAL‘
: (was chief of the ----
Bad Department is
Odeasa)
Chief ef a Bection of the lat Dept, 20d Directorate:
L¢. Col. NIKOLAYEVY (uatil 1963, he was deputy chief
of the let departaent, 2nd Directorate) —
Chief of a Section ("Black Market") of seme Dept, 2nd
Directorate: Lt. Col. PETRENKO, Vi. St.

8-8-C-R-B-T

7
13-00000 ;
“ aa 22 Vila UUW Anat
: , 17 April 1963 | Cp
* ' . ) 3 ye Pee S) R
chaiumen of the State Committee for Coordination of Gaientifle Nosearen
york; Nesterovich, V.P., chairman of the State Committee fic: Radio
Bs voaGoaat ing and Television; peprovs Vs VeI,, chairman of the Committe:
x State Security; Khitrun, Est; chairman of the republican
eo TEhostelintkes Chervanev, D.L., head of the Central Statistical
iduinistration of the Council of Ministers; Andreyev,.A. Yao, nead

of the Main Administration of Motor Transport; and Botvinnik, Ya. Kh.,
read of ‘the Main Administration of, Power Engineering and Electrification,

vie fiat session of the Belerussian Siprene Soviet of sixth :
convosation wea declared closed. : .

‘Rtgelev. Report

hitngk Dosastie Service in’ Belorussian 0600 GM 30 Merch 1963-1
(OFFICIAL USE- ONLY) ,

(Revoxt entitled "On the Improvement of Public Service to. the Republic's
Population" by Deputy Tikhon Yakovlevict Kiselev, chairman oi the
Council of Ministers, at the first session, sixth convoceticn, of

the Belorussian Supreme Soviet on 29 Merch)

(sumaary j During the past few years the party, while breaking up vith
Lenin's courage wornout organizational forms and overcoming decist
the vceesults of the cult of Stalin's person, vteadlly hay been improving
perty and state leadergiip of the national econany, Truly revolutionary
neasuceg have been carried out; they have opened large area for

uhe growth of our society's produétive forces and for the development

of the wasgses' initiative end creative ectivity. The Belcorusaien

SSR is marching on the road of stsady growth together with ihs rest

of the country. The gross output of the republic's industry has
iucreased ty 58 percent during tno past four years, aa egains’s 37
yereent enviseged by the seven-year plan. More than 1 billion rubies!
vorth of goods have deen produced in excess of the plan. Goods

prodused at Belorussien undertakings are exported to over 50 foreign
countries.

  

Duxing the four years of the seven-year plan 2,7 billion rubles
“wera invested in the national economy in Belorussia, During the
+ period over 160 new undertakings and shops went into cyerution,
Ls ding the powerful Bereza and Vasilevichi electrisa stations; the
nave-Minsk and Shehors-Gomel gas pipelines; the Minsk autcnmatic
Lincs wore; the Belorussian automobile plant in Zhodino; and other |
§ Construction Is progressing rapidly on Nurope's largest
vetinery in Polotsk, two potassium combines fr. Soligorsk, the
tlogorsk artificial fiber woke, the Mirwk motor works, the
itrate reciilizer works, the Baranevicht cotton somiees.
nor pig prejecte.

 
 
  
 

 

 
  
  

 

 

 

  
13-00000

 

 

 

‘ 3 dd 21 U i REGIONAL AFFAIRS .
17 April 1963

MATERIAL ON BELORUSSIAN SUPREME SOVIET
New Government

Minsk Domestic Service in Belorussian 0600 GMT 30 March 1963--L
(OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

(Editor's Note: For other sepoite of the supreme Soviet “decaton, see
the 2 April and 10 April DAILY REPORTS, pages 19 and 1, respectively)

(Summary) At the first session of the Supreme Soviet of the
Belorussian SSR of sixth convocation on 29 March K.T. Mazurov

proposed that the activity of the republic's Council of Ministers

be approved and T, Ya, Kiselev be entrgsted with the task of submitting
proposals as to the composition of the republic's government for
approval by the Supreme Soviet. This proposal was passed unanimously.

The Supreme Soviet unanimously reelected V. I. Kozlov chairman of

the Presidium of the Belorussian Supreme Soviet. Deputies F, Surganov
and T. Birich were elected deputy chairmen, D, Lukashevich was
reelected secretary of the Presidium, The following were elected
memberg of the Presidium: L. Aksyuk, L. Kartel, M. Klimenko, H.
Kriulin, L. Maksimov, I. Makarov, V. Penkovskiy, S. Pilotovich,

F. Romma, I. Sviridenko, V. Sinitsyn, D. Tyabut, V, Sharapov, P.
Yakovlevich, and M. Yefremenko.

The deputies unanimously approved the following Council of Ministerg
submitted by Premier Kiselev:

Kiselev, T. Ya., chairman of the Council of Ministers; Lobanok, V.E.,
first deputy cheirman and minister of production and procurement of

“agricultural produce; Pritytskiy, S.0., deputy chairman and chairman

of the Party-State Control Committee; Klimov, I.F., Zolov, A.I., and
Kamenskiy, V.G., deputy chairmen; Kishkin, S. M., chairman of the
Belorussian Sovnarkhoz; Malinin, S. M., chairman of the. Gosplan;

Doroshevich, M.V., minister of higher, specialized secondary, and
vocational education; Insarov, I.A., minister of health; Kiselev, K.V.,
minister of foreign affairs; Kiselev, G. Ya., minister of culture;
Afanasyev, P.V., minister of communications; Skoropanov, 5.G.,
minister of agriculture; Kokhonov, P.L., minister of finance;

Aksenov, A.N., minister of public order; Khalipov, M.A., minister

of education; Avkhimovich, M. Ya., minister of social security;

Zhizghel, I.M., minister of construction; Shavrov, A.S., minister of
trade; Korol, V.A., chairman of the State Committee for Construction
and Architectural Affairs cf the Council of Ministers; Paremskiy, B.D.,

ee no

A
13-00000

State Security
Belorusuian Son

 

ABELORUBS TAN -APPOritrmtT - The Belorussian Council of Ministers
| appointed Comrade Arkadiy Denisovich Rudak deputy chairman and

“metber of the board of the State. Security Comittee of the Belorussian

Council of Ministers, relieving him of his duties as head of the office
~ ~. of the Belorussian Council of Ministers. (Text) (Minsk, Belorussian,
Nov. 16, 1960, O745 GiMP--L) Be

nue

    

 

USSR Eegional Affairs
7 December 1960

ee
13-00000

. | ,
“Mazurov Report on Centrai Conm_.tee

Minsk Domestic Service in Belorussian 0545 GMT 28 September 1951--L
(OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

(Report by First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Belorussian
Communist Party Mazutov on the work of the Central Committee of the
Belorussian Communist Party, at the 25th Congress of the Belorussian
Comunis*: Party)

(Text) Comrades: In an atmosphere of unprecedented labor and political
enthusiasm, the Soviet people are marching toward the 224 Congress of
the CPSU. Under the leadership of the Communist Party, and carrying
out the decisions of the 20th and 2lst congresses of the CPSU, the
working people of our country are achieving ever new success in the
building of commumism. The seven-year plan is hetna eaveied out
successfully. :

’ We must not forget even for a minute that a fierce ideological

struggle is in progress in the world, a struggle which knows no

respite. Bourgeois ideologists have not abandoned their hopes of
weakening the ideological unity and cohesion of the Soviet people and
their solidarity in support of the Communist Party. In their subversive
work they are striving to find support among people who are morally
debased and burdened with the ideology of privete ownership. Drunkards,
thieves and profiteers, idlers and’ spongers are immediate targets

of the bourgeois agents' attention. ..The struggle against these

elements requires the participation of the whole commnity.

At one time, party and administrative organs carried out much work
attracting the public to the campaign against crime and the

violation of public order, and against immoral phenomena. I have in
mind the end of 1959 and the beginning of 1960. Tye wide network of
voluntary people's squads and comrades' squads was then set up in the
republic; these bodies began to render active assistance in the work
of upbringing. But many gorkoms and raykoms of the party have treated
the struggle against the antisocial phenomena as a short term campaign.
In @ number of places the people's squads and the comrades' squads
began to work less.and less, and here and there exist only on paper,
showing no signs of actual life. :

The campaign against crime has been relaxed by the public prosecutor's
department and the republic's public prosecutor, Comrade Bondar, the
supreme court and Chairman Comrade §hardyka, the Belorussian SSR
local organs. § 6m and forebearance
regarding criminal elements. Party organs should reinforce the
campaign against crime and violation of laws, and guide in an active
manner the work of administrative orgens and the forces of civic

organizations toward complete eradication of crime and the violation
of the rules of socialist life of the commnity.

An active fight against the manifestations of bourgeois morality and the
uprbringing of the Soviet people in the spirit of commmism constitutes:
a most important task of party propaganda and a sacred duty of all

the workers of the ideological front--all. communists.

E
13-00000

SIKORSKIY, Sergey Ivanovich
: Appt Minister of Internal Affairs, by decree of
Presidium of Belo SSR Supreme Sov 25 Feb 58.
_ FBIS 14/3/58

 

     

: oft sawoeth od oe q
FP a BME There Be om arts Boye!
a i. Asgenov Nemed Minister of intemal Affairs Belorussian SSR ja
aoe . t

; ‘A ukese of. the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet Belorussian SSRe

dated 6 June 1960, appointed Aleksandr Nikiforovich Aksenov to the {1 |
post of Minister of Internal Affairs | Belorussian SSR. (Sovetskaya
Belorussiya, 7 Jun 60) f
edd mt ahieqtolMag od ebuswrodsth sdseoga abd 102 tel? odd of

re ces tenn A en owns bare FR wearers tnt YO Dowdy bee rwrene Rewer evrh

spi ouborsatst 50" so bved tats wWo eV to gine

Beet Be

  
  
  
 

   
 
 

 

orc net

 
 

104-10534-10176

OG 7 ne ee
SECRET ST Regen 7

1. .Attached is information on the MVD and KGB
in Minsk, Belorussian SSR. Included are data (52 pages)
on facilities and personalities covering the period 1959

to 1975.

2. The attached material includes some security
classification category Secret and the remainder is from

overt sources.

3. We request return of this material when your

review has been completed.

Attachment: As Stated Above

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHOD
INVOLVED .

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

SECRET
of ‘feptenber.
Sttien te the rogtemeL reas-
te, two neg "been ehaire

sepin
wide reshuffle of key pests in
‘¢he apparatus. -

Fee eis republics. ia which,
new eveurity ehiefs have been

‘eppeinted Goring the past

wo Ba tmatt  atiac i Bh atin whit our ate

 
13-00000

~ SURVEY OF THE SOVIET PRESS
SUMMARY NO. 2559

25 APRIL 1960

9. MAZUROV Addresses Belorussian Party Congress
Reducdtion of MVD, KGB, and Judiciad Apparatus
Staffs of court and public prosecution agencies, the Ministry of Internal
Affairs, and the Committee for State Security have been cué down, with a reduction
6 of expenses of 17.5 million rubles a year; and the structure of these
organizations has been simplified. The Belorussian Central Committee
recently passed a decision abolishing the Ministry of Justice Belorussian
SSR, entrusting its functions to the Supreme Court, and creating a
Juridical Commission under the Council of Ministers for elaborating and codifying

laws...

aan Fos eos che, f° v a “Oe Te tet: te UG- KoR ia va Le
ip apo ¢ Cs Mw vy eke GA. thee. Brill belo - an i Ce iO
A ei. sel ce ge tle C e 2 4] —_ on Le a, rape

on Ble Cory voveenea 4 ALLLVE Roa Att byolalen A
MIL , ;
Cgc Dukes at th, Jicebten Llc J a

 
