74-0000

. out and that of his country if the U.35, Governmeat

thinks this is really worthwatllae,

“4, Unless there are overriding reasons, the
Rebasny recommends against the shipment of arms with
U.S. markings to Costa Rica. We foel that the
Ghipmest cannot bo kept socret and could create a
real problem for tae present Governnent (reverse of
Venerucla Castro cache). The kabaauy is also
concerned that State A-44 arrived with no controla.

“3. Unless we are prepared to run tne risk of
digclosure that the U.S. Goverument in lavolved in
this shipwent to Ray and that the use of these arag
moots with our approval, the Ambassador recommends

that the license not be issued.

"6. Tne Ambassador desires instructions in order
to answer President Orlich's query and algo if and
how State A~4d4 is to be anawered.*

nN?

. iv —~y
\ Bruce B. Cheever)

G8
 

104-10180-10104

 

 

   

3 Novomber 1964

ha,

MEMORANDUM FOR: dr. Jons H. Crinmins

Cvordinator of Cuban Affairs

SUBJECT: Aras Delivery to Manuel RAY Movement

:

in Costa Rica
mV

The following sesyuage has been received
from Costa Rica:

“1, Ambagasador Telles asks that the following
be discussed with appropriate Department officers
including Assistant Secretary Mann,

"2. %In a @isecussion vith President Orlich re
arus ahipneat seted in State A-dd on 3 Novunber,

the Aubassacor learned that arus sre beings purchased

by Manuel PAY. Although Lieutenant Colonel ¥Yernando
FIGULS Quires aes tndiested to an Army aisaion source
that the saipaest wlll enter Costa Rica, the President
is of the opinion tuat arazs will pot cone here.

Neither the resident aor Figuis has indicated ultisate

@estyoution of ta¢se aru.

"3, The President further repuvated to tae
Ambaesador that both Ray and Manuel ARTINE had told
him ‘confidentially’ that the U.S. Government is
benuind thea, put they had promised their U.s.
Government contacts not to reveal this. Based on
this disclosure, the President indicated sii liagness
tu cooperaty vita Ray to help the U.3. and thus, ta
this instance (as in previous cave with Artiag),
assigned Ftguis to bandie arrangenents. The
President. Lowever, dosires aagurance that the
U.S. Government wants Ray to have this shipment
and that this saipment and Costa Rica's continued
participation will contribute to achievewuent of the
important U.5. sojective. In other words, Prasidest
Orlich haa indicated a willingness to stick his nece

 

580
lo Not Reprodues”

 

SK
