ial 10266-10148 NU.cbe ed

wer seaeaeee §=612°5erm . A
aid CONTINU ATION OF GLASSIFICATION, DisPatTeH SYMPOU AND NO-
‘ BISPATCH SECRET HMOs 18949

still has nor admitted to GUTIERREZ the justice of his. comcern over the
CINEUCK COBB liziso as the possible source of “indiscretions” on

* part, he has succeeded, apparently, in reesrablishing his
good relations wale SLE ETERES following the abovementioned quarrel.

 

“yivlent bbs arrack, . ponds there are some > indigantons
thar the relative. pUiiitiens of ¢ GUTTRERES and ALVARADO jerez ré support
ef the captured guerrilla group were: lacking in the decisive qualities
needed to eathance the chances of. success of this group by orderiy ag the full

suppart of PGT assets during the border crossing and the trip to

teing of Guatemala. While, in the Station's opinion, rhe vealatig-permoasl
feelings of vulnerability. by GUTIERREZ and ALVARADO Jerez on this
point. may have aided LINLUCKs cause at this tims, his violent,

highly
emotional rejection. af the valid comments Cancerning hie lack af disgretion :

with CORB plus his implied charge of cowardice against ALVARADO Jerez
(even if true) certainly can do nothing to. strengthen the security of the

operation in the Jeng rud. While ALVARAD®@ Jerez, according to LINLUCK)

has never been one: of his friends, GLYTIERREZ ts ane of the few remzining

 

leaders of the PET wo xan be considered so... and INLUGK caynor afford |.

- $0-glipmete. im. TINELICE ts acutely aware of his need to. retain
LIERREZ ” Setemeeta tp

   

; ial ffoy ‘EO amon. SRE Phe effects of the disagreement,

Hkh, LAA (= eae

 

1~ COS, Guatemala City
2- Files

 

 

ny use nagvious EDITION. CLASSIFICATION
y REPLACES FORMS
530 51-28, 51.28A AND 51-29 SECRE (Teonmmucp
WHICH Aa OBSOLETE

 

   

smd has made a eonnartad aol eEpereitly mpateRir .
104-10266-10148 : NU. Cbg rec

DErP.c4.19905 Lesourl'! H

of CONTINUATION OF . SHEE — ‘SYMBOL AND NO.
fut bint! SECRE HMMA~18949

the possibility that. the interest of the Soviets may exrend deepext and be

concerned With a thorough security. check of LINLUCE before deciding. po

uge him - in auyrhing sensitive, CINLUGK reported that.-he had the distinct...
resaion that. GUTIERREZ organized rhis 18 April. mooring to “orcer

Later, ata meeting between. GUTIERREZ and TINEUCR on 21
April, Se gave LINLUCK some paternal advice concerning the
internal struggles within the leadership of the PGT and stated his interest
in seeing CINLIICK "through his own actions and responsibilities regain
his position within the PGT leadership", GUTIERREZ then referred ro the
disagreement with ALVARADO Jerez and criticized as’ "not good” the state~
ments made by LINLUCK to the &ffecr that he. could practice his patriorista
even without the CP, GUTIERREZ said that it is hetter to:centinue te. 4
struggle for unity within the PGT without paying atrention:to. those who fae;
trigue, He added that he was alarmed by LINLUCK'S. artimds re practifing .
patrietism outside the PGT "since that would he a tremendgus blow to.the .
PGT's existence”, LINLUCK soothed GUTIERREZ concern and promised
to Kéhave himéelf and work on the tasks assigned him as long ag the PGT
cand tint as wig Be SUTURE? said that they had full trust in kin °s
: WAS. emphasized in the report at the yaradre SAREE J
; Nhs. coi pratulatiens [nie ema an cata: 2. TO:

    

“ei ce aelacy wn the PGT leadership about his ‘ones
retire to Guatemala to contribute with bis effarts and experiece tothe,
military effort", GUTIERREZ was pleased bur they agreed rhat the ex
tensive work assigned CINLUCK’ in Mexico took precedence at this time
bit that the PGT leadership would be asked to consider LINIKLIEK'S request
when they. thought his return would be “opportume and determining”,

COMMENTS

1, «The Station considers this quarrel as an unfortunate eutgrowth
of LINLUGK'S stubborn refusal to recognize - up to this point ~ the danger
June. COBB represents for him and for the future of the operation, He. his
been. instructed by the Sation numerous times to srop seving. COBE::
Haye pointed our thins what. should have heen evidence enough. t6 ci
2 wan of is intelliggure that she is dangerous for him, ome fast
: nie beller that she ig a direct and valuable link with, Je Jose o
id, Ne znacon, ane aprinee) cultivated assidnowsly;.. Re wpe
‘ a ce rt dwar ie agreicing, verbally xiv sir iti.
F i cciehbaved 2. acctdas darpre tokim so far as the PT
Boo. "vest spin Peles GUTIERREZ, eens after hia ert Fenn

 
 
 
 
 

 
104-10266-10148 =e. surn n NU. cL rib

CONTRIUATION OF a - CLASSIFICATION: DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
" DISPATCH SECRET IMMA ~1.89.49
~ 1 BSO

‘who are without merit..." Later that same evening, both ILLESCAS and
Norma tried te show LINLUCK that ALVARADO Jerez was. nor his enemy.
and thar ALVARAD® Jerez. was quire upset because he felt that he bad pro
voked LINLUCE to a Point which could have unfortunate consequences “|
for the very tmporrant work which the PGT is doing ar present, .

 

    
   
      
   
        
   
   
  

 

(INDIE, as a result of the Station's instructions not to. alienate’
eure nice eeey ot result of ILLESCAS' tutercession, began to soften

     
 

. Eis: Saeed REZ and ALVARADO. ADO [ere The text time
eae ernie tes !
S apis Reef So the PGT :
These } = opened this one and learned of the small me ,

‘whith weened Twetenrd SUTIERREZ about one "Sagastume”, from Chiquimuia, a }
who apparently bad revolutionary beliefs who was arriving im Mexico, The. :
ate warited GUTIERREZ, ¢ thar this fellow was employed by the Diregcion, —_—
Tesvestigact tones es (OY.E.), YDIGORAS' police, The other part af
note said thar & ee addressed to Carlos. SOLLIZ, Aparatos Ortropexli~

cos, Medellin #112, was abaut to arrive, (Note: aoa Grropedices™

moxhing,

at this 3 meeting with GUTIERREZ, again. breaght up
the COBB fase hy showing GUTUS RREZ some documenrs of GOBB'’s con- t
relarions with vmportant Gubang fust before she left Cuba, and pra~
me fecSocerstas which. he (GUTIERREZ ‘bad ‘
ipa oe & 2 e

  

 
   
   
     
    
      
   

im Gistemala by Alfredo GUERRA Borges pa rd joe Alberto
GUTIERREZ, did nor agree with thts and arempted ré sxplain |
that he raised the issue due to the fact that ALVARADO Jerez
jaatared on the security aspect and rhat he (ALVARADO Jerez) was 4 person
: laaded down with. resenrmenr, GUTIERREZ said’ phat | he ne desired thie. mutter
discussed epenly nr that, unfortunately, | rise
fused oan, a ao ALVARADO Jerez’ explanations, TMOG hee,
his.accusarion thar GLITIRRREZ was trying to diminish the PGI"s
biliry toward the gue a group and trying to shove all the blame fer: theix
fafluxe om hiny kK). GUTIERREZ explained to LINLDGR thar kts:
positiorwas. free.ef (will and stated thar “under no circumgiamcés woyld
Thar5 April discudsien be forwarded to Guatemala and that ne eontiusiors

L heerr x WUTIERREZ irsisted that none of them eniiigeog

item mistrusted LINLUCEK and that, the

   
 

   

  

 

of the Pl in Mexico”, GUTIER.
pasatble. that-whar is. ‘bothering. ALVARADO Jerez ts thet he wainkrs
superiox to: avearyone because he. is. an alternate member of the Ce
miree af the PGT, GITIERREZ said that’ Se ee the HOW + a
his pwn ition as ni tive in view of the importarice the present ke.
GULIERREZ eg ag poaattcs ta vier 2 TANT DGR would wid not abands. the *
werk he was. doing, He also acked for more explanarions as to. just how an

FORM vat fRevIous EDITION. CLASSIFICATION

1 REPLACES FORMS

ie 53a 51-28, 5128 AND 51-29 SECRET Cx CONTINUED
co ‘WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

   

 

  
    
   

   
  
104- 10266- 10148 : ; i NU. cba ree
. ae? ne .

“ CONTINUATION: OF °

DISPATCH:

ammunition which ie ook trom TINLUGE'S
He seemed satisfied when he was giyen the details
matter ah of the oppornumity to thriw i
. Me, “why nt you or "‘ALVARABO Jerez come for that animo?
Nome. of yor can. be. found because nf all the mystery you shroud yourselves
in, and the people who help are always subject to criticism", According to
‘LINLUCK; he realized that GUTIERREZ was trying to assuage his anger
and d allowed himself to be convinced that there was no lack of trust, ete.,
and that the imporjant thing to be considered was the work being done by
him, As soon as GUTIERREZ left, LINLUCEK tried through Norma DLLESGAS
to get in touch with ALVARADO Jerez in order to reach an undersranding, with)
him on the grounsia that. they both realize that the CP mterests. are above
everything else, He did: ‘met succeed In contacting ALVARADO Jerez at this

shim fato.a, break with the PGT which weontld he au yneenmats re~
for GUTIERREZ in a sitmtion where all the moral reaséris _
and there are matty redijons. which reflect agginst the PGT
Soins, GUTIERREZ in particular] CINCUGER also considérs that his.
position with ILLESCAS and the Soviets has heen strengthened. He points
ont, also, thar the Cubans have asked for a, Guatemalan to travel td cue | te
take charge of the military matters concerned with activities in Guate
and. that Qamin FERNANDEZ Concepcion told him his. name was among.
ones recommended for this job, GSINLUGEK tends to dismisa as portant.
the machimarions. of ALVARADG Jerez and believes that ALVAR Jerez .
was frightened by iLINEUGK'S violent reaction to the charges. of indiscretion,
etc, LINGUCE cousiders. that he has demonstrated his sincerity arid his
deslication to the tasks imposed on him amd that his violent reaction placed .
bork ALVABADS am Jerez and GUTIERREZ very definitely 0 on the defenstye au.
centribnted to rhe security of the operarion,

warmed LIN any guess allowing bis. ps
lon. and to’ m to patch up his di

iéferences with.
ee Jerez. He agreed and(at a meeting:
18 April for the purpose of discussing a pdliti¢al
malan situation gent by the PGT BASS Joes
he courteous to: ALVAR

had assumed toward ALVARADO Jerez. They borh wold .
Smee that théy had been worried by hie violent attitude which had-mads
quite an impression gn ALVARADO Jerez, who had stared hia usbeppiners: z ar
having “unjusrly hurt’ sCINLUCE and how pleased he was that LINEUCE’S
attitude toward him. bad changed "for the good of the CP".
ted in hls. report. Aeterna et ae to preven: ALVARABG -

 

fom: AB Siem NEA ee

| eee perce meee
104-10266-10148 NU. col res

S 2iaern =
SEP.24.1998 1 CLASSIFICATION. BisrATCH SYMEOL AND NO-

CONTINUATION OF = - IMIVMA=189.49
DISPATCH

 
 
  

>, learigrmet.
lence: aul dehafis.
atch of a’; of
28-page report, a copy of which is
iotrres, Greene as the one responsible for beauro-

cern FET UGK since he did not offer ‘cooperation ro the
degese requested by ‘for the purchase of rifles when needed and,
addition, his ve to allow the 13 November guerrilla group touse
por carmaces and rmures for entering Guatemala clandesrinely, .

2. According to GUTIERREZ,’ two-page summary.con~
centrared, poate eters en che negative security aspects which oceurred:
for exansple, during the rrip to the Mexico-Guatemalan border, ond o£ Jaa
guerrillas accidentally dropped his pistol and many passengers becart
; aware that they were.armed Guatemalans, (2) duriigheir stay in “faxrls-
z Gupervez, two ef this preup communicated from one hotel to aidther with
: thely shorbauye. radios, and (3 av: . ;
- aiilewdng. laos te be pressur ;
: pas ko: be bt.Guatienaa on 4 28 EF

   
  
    
 
   

   
  
 

 
     
   

 
  

 
     
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
   
 

 
      
 

that she had.-pi fap Bw quantity of ,38 Super pistol ammunition #&
EINE UGK s * ee when he was ‘in Tuxtla Gutlerrez ond had-teken ttre. ..

her apartment fer safe-keeping, ALVARADO Jerez attempted te. by. ,
this thatthe whole guérrille operation had been lacking in securiry bx ao
LINE UGK/hed planed its jgoourity in the hands of an American woman wands
activities wexe suspicious

4 PRUE pajected the above views concerning CORB which-he o com

  

prt Poinres’ our thac. ponitive results. already had been qbtained 26a reault
of this velatiouskip, In amswer to a question from ALVARADO Jerex,
LINLUC® said, ""Youcan be sure that if June COBB. works for somedne it. is.
for us, fixer hegause of'her love for Guatemals and then because.ofher ad= |
itorial relnriois With AREVALO",. He also explained that his aisrex 4 . I
COBB were close. friénds = and thar his sister had incroduced CORB ro sthers.
in Guaremalan-politics for whom COBB served as a bridge with AREVAL@S

3. »_ ELE Wee ALVARADO Jerez maintained his pasitien.stub~
wee teases we ‘payéexcellent reagan to know). He pointed ont thar ;
hin tencese

    
   

Bas

Pera coutribyred anything positive bur, rath
z ex” to whom all others reported bur:

 

  
 
 
 
 

Se ae a a a Ee

Uae ae bs ie es
   

104-10266-10148 Md 2) pee ag

“Shies, "Wal Div iio
PALE, KUDESK/ICG.
“atet of Station, Guatemala City

 

RE: “43-3” — (CHECK “Xx” ONE)
| MARKED FOR INDEXING
xe INDEXING a

C RREZ, erez
IDEXING CAN BE JUDGI
None; for ition and flles Terres |

|
i
i i
cai ) HMMA-1886F, .17 April 1962 (para 2, Commeurs) () (TT) f 1
ra
|
|
i
1

 

 

 

 

TE 3 DABXE.0437, BD: Mexch 1962
. i o MIEXT 0428, 2 ate 1962 '

‘oa mieitie’S ‘April between CINLUCK; Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ,
eae ALVARABO J: . LINDUCEK reacted violently1o (1) a: gummiaxy |

: yi GIITIERREZ, ofa CB-page report CINLUC® had prepared which, tn

an oes opinion, concentrated on “negative” securliy matters to. the ex-
anian. of Use + more important polirical considerations, experiehes, atc.
concerning the Ul-fared | MORENO guerrilla group, and (2) GUTIERREZ’
comments indicating that the PGT suspected June COBB of being the source

of "leaks" and commenttid on LINLUCK'S lack of discretion in his relation~
ship with her,

2, CINLUCGK} during this meeting, made some ill-considered remarks

*{in the Sration's. opinion); again jumped to the defense of CQRB, und verbally ei

attacked borh GUTIERREZ, and ALVARADO Jerez, in.effect, accusing rhe | ©

ldittex of cowardice: LINLUCK also threatened to drop out of the work hs J -

. was doing. in cetmection with arnis protutement, etc,, dnd iidte#red thar he:

* wanted: aorking niet $6 do with such responsibilities tt he -were nips pasted:

ae . pen the Starline Ne poe Cone oe alee GUISE, Ges ) 3

“Hat ich Juni :

  

 
 
 
   
  
  

     
  

Wi¢ hae in the POT, under any conditions; ¢
agt ‘he had had ample proof of the danger 3
future of this operation, as we had tald him

d,alloived GUTIERREZ te calm him down. again

      
 

‘3. Fe gerne gd personal estimate of his position sabowig the ébaver
pone Guerre is. that his position with both GUTIERREZ ami with Garlos. |
TEESGAS een strengthened and that the quarrel and a eee
buted to the seturity of the opem tion, While the Sration is not quite
ear ao re the strengthening and increasing of security of the operseica,
perhaps LINLUGR) new has had impressed upon him the active danger which:
June COBB represents to the future of the operarion due to the suspicion with.
which the PGT regards her. The Station has atrempted innumerable’ times

te‘pobir this. hazgrd ‘our.ro him and has instructed him ro seeing: her tour “
td 90 avell unttl-maw. MSW 1 ale : ode
A AIELERS an.§tration instructions, preceeded ro. atrermpr,t corte
Te efeeks of the quarrel and, apparently, has, suce:
A Romoree from prossat L/P LICL rap

¢s Cine -e@-— 4 ;
Fear 2 word: oP
; Viera a SLITTERREZ, Carlos ALVARADO. Jerez, itl.

- SEPNEDIGE amet ‘5 April-1962 ax the héme of Rafael SOLIS Barrios ta atwetiog a |
“weaime of the report. Which LINLUGE ha t been asked by GUTIERREZ to

TAGE NO. ; 34
Fe _ “ is

  
    
   
   
  

 

 

 

   
 
   

    
 

 

 

  

 
104-10266-10148 —s ; NO. 261 P.4

lciasrn ‘A
1

  
  

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

   

 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
 

. paar ge
“ people,. pe ae a ro were edi in the streets and exposing =
tea rp rerrible danger™, labelled ALVARADO Jerez"
attitude as dearrmuctive and brazen and af being motivated by envy, even
of his own. hrothers,

6, According ro LINLUGK, he was aware of the effect his words were
producing and he contimied by saying he was tired of the systematic atrirude -
which nrembers pf the PC leadership assiimed in his case and that, sinc he...
did nor enjoy abso’ lute confidence, he did nor want ro continue to he hi charge |.
ef an * “While some hecome >. friendly with really suspiclous. pypple-
and lead lives.which they cannot explain even with sacrLfices, actions, per~
secutione, because they only see in the CP an opportuniry ro travel or for

fo bap Siete there is no desire to recognize the efforts af sthers: tor
Babs. fag. the CP, even at. the risk of acting with Sageaing sep lic

   

 

Setter icin ee

J, ‘3S! take into
x. - Why deve cys. mat to be suspicious ef:
ap ers wifels -— 3 ch mamber:
P only bitter memoriés. of her grey fe ia

: ; é ga xendlt She on ne the object of more resextrdéet thar
‘anyone Sinp, . -pa: with your mentality, Carlos, and, cr hat Gear,
f decline the pammee re ty for tasks which have been assigneti me, I don't

want ro know anything nzore about them, I was a patriot before I was a

‘Gomraunist and, tf justice and the CP are confronted, I'll be on the side af

coe because we tn the CP will mo longer be represetiring rruth and

justice. What is said ef justice and the CP could be said of truth, of the
moral and political characteristics it has but in the moment of truth.one
sees that perfidy and intrigue win out, I have always been a patriot, I have
proved this, proof which some others have not. yet shown, 1 will continue to:

a ‘Patriecic: with ox wifhonut the CP and leave alone these who congpize not
the enemy hi power bur against the comrades who really waur to

he idnids which-they prafess. To tell the truth, it is patsfil te. have

beter to be certain of so much = slain :

    

   
   
 
 

  
 
  
 

6 me,

   

 

  
 
    
  
 

canthtued to act indifferent and aaswered
with: aE ee GUTIERREZ invited INFLIEK eo roan im=

poxtant meeting which. was to take place 9 April bur LINLUCGE refused te
attend. GUTIERREZ made another attempt to sce LINLUCH 7
again-wea. repulsed cealdly, The Station, on learning of this.
and the reagens for it, cautioned LINEUIGE nor to carry his,
any further and to 9 ACLept GUTLERREZ' peace overtures, We arco, ae
DINLUGE: char :

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

Bra, St28e AND $)-29

  

WHICH ARE QEsoisre. |.
104- ToZ66- 10148 ; NO. 261 P.S

i2?4orn H

    

" CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

. a relationship-which the Starion bad instructed him to end as far back as.
; November 1961. dwe to.the fact that she was suspect by the PGT and a comin-
t uation: of. the relationship with her made him subject, at the very least, to
' suspicionsf indiscretrly ralking. too much about PGT affairs, The Station,

of course; could nor tefl hin: how much proof we had of the extent of hs inv «||

. conmersstigns with COBB but we tried by every means short of thé
- pruth, bo parti Rise if, ib sleeper of onus this relationship so far ds the
Le Soviets were concerned, |LINLUCE> afrer the quarrel with
eras firally seemed to realize the daxiage
¢ already and the prime te the: Se in whic

  

    

8. Qn 10 April, CINCDCK visited Carlos smunend¥cueseas, at
ILLESGAS' request through his wife, Norma, DLLESCAS seemed quite
friendly hut immediately began to scold TINCUCK for his quarrel with.
GUTIERREZ and ALVARADO Jerez, ULLESCAS repeated LINLUGKS own. -
words to him, "You have always said thar courage is the possibility of
thinking while in danger, of acting cooly in the midst of violence, bur I be-
lieve that. this time.you. became confused and hehaved like a hurt child rarher
then like an experiensed politician who. kaows how to handle a siruarien, if
wield. ire, znd render his enemied.helpless. .. vaitenin added fear
SUTIERRES ‘sincersdlywas burt snd thar. even ALVAR Z

      
  
 
 

at y terete

. that — portent: ‘on his parr would subject him to coutinuing intrigues on
; the part :ef. ‘eople like ALVARADO Jerez, Jase Manuel FORTUNY, anrd-orhers.
\" COEB's loyal attitude vis-a-vis the Guatemalans and |
tried by every means to reassure LINLUCE! who, apparently, had heen
deeply hurt by ALVARADO Jerez's atritude, ILLESCAS, waking advantage
of Norma's temporary absence from the room, told LINLUCK} .“You should
realize thar no one: is. mere important than you within the CP in cpmuertion.
with a whale series of future projects, The Soviets have the greatest .nrer-

   
   

    
   
  
  
  
     
    
 
   

est in you and thar is the mest impeittanr thing, Out of one hundred quesrions:

they ask, eighry have.to.do with you and reveal the enormous ifiterest they
have.in you, This is strictly between you and me, please; nat a word ro

Victex;, who knows narhing about this since they know that he is nor fhe

. Broper-pexsur to haniile cermin matters sbaye wien Ine han etal, 5s Se

    
  
 
   

: orizer to gay anything abaur it. Lam mincig Meee
2 This. .aerton “apparanis” considers you an invaluable persen and
‘emiy want.t® ask you co. be tactful In your dealings with ALVARADO
": Jerez, who; by the way, will leave sotn for Guatemala, I want ro ask you -

. te he very. careful i all your dealings so thc the confidence which the
Soviets have will inerease and when the time comes for action you will have
a fall support, I beg you vo.txust me, sines I make it my business no demguie
strace thar you area derermining factor within the PGT when a struggle is
involved and I have alsy tried to convince them about the lles anid intelgnes.
which sometimes are'directed against the more worthy: comrades, b 4

CLASSIFICATION

USG PREVIOUS EDITION. q

5 FORMS
ios Blan ND 51-29 secre a (33) conrinuen
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

   

 

within the PGT leadership and he could ill afford to alienate him especially ie
when: the basic point pf disagreement was his relationship with Jute COBB... |

  

  

te nen tn memeeins neon ne

  
 
