 

6, Until.22 January hehad no’. mentioned the subject of the
Polish colonel at all. He called me at home, and I immediately
took up the subject since I had read about his disclosures in the
paper a week carlicr. ‘When I prodded hin about being in trouble
over the newspaper interview, he appeered confident thet he was not
in any trouble because he was "in daily contact with Agency people".
He further said that his purpose in the disclosure was to pry loose
from the Agency those documents which would help the colonel establish
his true identity. But it was pretty obvious thet kK, was surpised by
the big play given the story in the paper. In fact, he had even
considered celling the reporter and asking him to’ retract some
distortions - ho did not say which - in the story, but on second thought
could not put his finger on any clear-cut error worth ‘fighting over.
Other items fron the conversation: if the colonel's clzim is successful
E, and Cleve Backster would turn over sny shere of the fortune to .
"the fund for promoting the lie detector", except their expenses and 7
time now paid out of their ow pockots; K. is convinced of the coloncl's
clain to the fortune being legitimate, He did not.scem to be fishing for .
inform
he said about it was to ask how Lon Thomas reected. K, did give me the
ession thet he had examined some (identity?) documents of the
said thet I.

 

   

 

whe
colonel when working for 73D/Gi2B in 1961 (7) because he
recomize the ran's picture Iosew it. But he edietely changed
vaind and said "it probably before your tin when I asked him

if he wasn't ~ursuing a matter which he only kmew.about from his official
ity in working for the Government, he assured ne that he had only
laerned of the colonel's claim to be the son of the Czar late last year
(possibly he said at the time of the Presidential campaign). At the.

end of the hour-long conversation he stated the real reason for calling
and that was to tell me that the colonel was to be on television, the 11
o'clock news on 4BC/Chennel 7, This must have been 2 mistake on his part
because that news program is locol end not a network progres from New York.

 
  
  

 

 
   
    

 

   

  

 

7,. This summery is the best of my recollection; if you need
additional information, I will be gled to fill in the gaps.

[oun beck.
WIM) BECK .
“msn /onRB/ ODS
"x6 2009

 

ation about the reaction in thé Agency to thé riewspaper story. ALL”
 

=p)

(4-10250-10080

4

 

- . i

eG SECRET [

27 January 1965

MEMORANDUN FOR: Jim O'Connor, ~sp/Sacurity

SUBJECT: Contact with Herman E. Kimsey ~ Jan Beck, TSD/GARB |

1. As you requested at our meeting on 25 January, I heve prepared
this summary of my contact with Mr. Kimsey since he left the Agency
in August, 1962.

2. My contact with K, has been via the telephone, except for a
couple of occasions when I had lunch with him or he visited Chief, G-RB
in Central Building. I cenot recell ever calling him, but his calls
to me have been mostly to the office and only @ few to my home.

3, With a few exceptions his reason for calling sees to have

‘been non-specific; he just wanted to chat. Often he would open the
3 J

convers*tion with, 2 gambit ef asking for someone's telephone extension,
more then once fo <tonsion, or for Dick Kuhn's hore
aitress, Sometimes he would call my attention to something interesting
he had read in the paper about some new technique, some mutual friend, etc.
Occasionally he would sae be fishing for information about old
associates, mainly Erg end Dick Kuhn: how they were doing and
what they were doing nowadays, and so on. Since I usually avoided
answering such questions directly, I cannot tell if he already knew
about the person in question and wanted confirmation, or if he was
fishing. The bulk of the converstions then consisted mainly of

dialogue about his job plans, femily, rutual friends outside the Agency,
and so on, .

4. Several calls were about the one instance when I was directly
involved with him on a project, It pertained to a job opening which

I had heard about and wanted to pzss on to him. It was as a document

exeminer or a related job with the Multnomah County Sheriff's Office,
Portland, Oregon. He seemed interested in pursuing the possibility,
but in a recent conversation he had still not applied and did not seem
interested.

5. The only other calls on a specific subject where those on
the subject of the Anastasia story, early in 1964, and on the Polish
colonel's claim, 22 Jenuary 1965, (Cn the Anastasia subject he mentioned
hig involvenett in the cese vie Cleve Backster and gave me the general
background as he saw it, including a certain intrigue involving "Reds
working for 'Life't magazine" and the Soviet and British intelligence
services p-obsbly being in the background to protect their interests.

  
 
 
 
  

ao

Exrluded from automatis,
Gawngradisg and
éetisysiticatton

 

 
