13-00000

purpose. He * en asked if he. could .sec ¢ Nidalgo file
for the 1960-. /period. It was pointed ogt that the
intérest had been understood to be Hidalgo's period as.

‘case officer. for AMMUG, which didn't commence until 1964.

He said he would like to start at the 1960-63 period and

go from there. I replied that this approach would take

us back to where we had. been and that it would be preferred
if consideration were to be given just what is wanted and ~
why, and submit it in writing. He said it would be out -

| first thing Monday morning and i promised. first attention,

5. He asked about AMMUG's file. Messrs. Sturbitts
and Hawkins explained the problem presented: the record
revealed the extensive use of MUG after he became available
to us, and this had to be reviewed in detail by a number
of different~desks. . This took time. It became apparent
that they were really interested in the "Mexican" period,
whicl) may suggest how the file is of interest to them.

ay
6. He asked about Casasin’s file. Everything had
been agreed about his interview in Paris, but as a former.
employee his file had been retired to Archives and had to
be retrieved. It was now in and would soon be available.
As the HSCA investigator was not planning travel for some
time yet, there was time to handle this.

7. He asked about the Proenza file. I said that I
had offered to brief Blakey cither at the Agency when he
next appears there, or at his office. I felt that when he
understood the nature of the case, and what it wasn't, he
would understand why it was not relevant. I said we didn't
know why they wére interested in Proenza, so had to guess
at it. She had been recalled to Cuba shortly after the
assassinatign of President Kennedy, which may have: inter-
ested them, ‘but we knew why she was recalled. He wanted
to be briefed, and I declined in favor of waiting, to brict

Blakey.

8. I took the occasion to speak again, ‘as had been
done several times: before in both writing and orally, that
there is a need to bring some order to the requests from
HSCA. We knew there was a loss of interest in some re-

quests--material had been untouched for.months after it
‘had been made available. At the same time, as time con-

straints grow, his young men are getting excited and each
feels that his current request should receive priority

‘over others. In, the absence of stated priorities. we simply

have to work on the earlier requests in order to prevent
a back-log accumulating; this will- impair responsiveness

 
 

104-1032210154

oe / face. F

 

“MEMORANDUM FOR. THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with Gary Cornwell

1. Cornwell came out today to complete arrangements
for the Mexico trip. After talking with his people on
the HSCA woxk area, he met with Niles Gooding, Norbert
Shepanek, Martin Hawkins, Bill Sturbitts and the under-
Signed. Wesxhad heard that the Embassy had not located
persons to be interviewed (but were told to. not upstage
State) so asked if the trip was on. Cornwell said it
was, despite what seemed few to interview.

4
2. The Mexican trip poses no unrecognized problems.
The HSCA people will first interview Agency employee. :
Flores in alias, on Monday afternoon if possible, as
Flores is scheduled for leave. Gooding will arrange the
interview of the safehouse person who has agreed to come
and be interviewed. LIONION-1 is in Madrid (we explained
his recent exposure by the Communist affair in Havana),
and is not available for interview in Mexico City. We
ave not been able to locate June Cobb Sharp or
Gopezy , an
3
_ 3.. Cornwell apologized for the use of Agency pictures
without checking with us. He said he simply did not recali
the limitation that accompanied them. I said we ‘probably
would have agreed to using them, but probably would have
liked to. influence. the way in which they were presented.
I added that it provided an opportunity to speak about
handing out material, also saying that is an il11 wind that
blows no good, as it had resulted in identifying one of the
people. We told him the material would be available for

review soon.

 

4. He askéd about access to the Hidalgo OPF. JI
pointed out that the issue of unrefined access to OPFs
had been the subject of a letter to Blakey, explaining the \
questions in the minds of employces about their future
We were asking for a refinement in the information
what periods of service did'they wish for what

a

careers.
requested --

  
13-00000

‘to bona fide current priority requests: He acknowledged
the presentation of the problems but made no statement

(as is customary) .

. “yt ;

er)
Catingges a < % eh heenencbien ti,

Ss. D. Breckinridge

“9

Distribution: .
Orig - OLC/Subj
- SA/DDCIC-—~
- DDO
- DDA. :
~ OLC/Chron

 

bet pet et pe

Sar

 
