 

 

 

Daughter: ‘Svetlana Valerievna: porn: 1959, Moscow.
Wife and daugntes

Graduate’ of Foreiai Language. Institute an /o r Instit te. of

“November | 1959. to 6 January 1960 - Soviet Exposition in

 

 

Wife: | Rosa, ‘Alekéandrovna, born. 2 March 1932 Arkhangel oblast.

  
 

 

 

accompanied Subject to

   

“Foreign Aggairs, Moscow.

 

Fron. -30° June to 10. July 1959 was at the “Blectrotecinical
Congress, ‘in Madrid; attended a. conference in Maaria

“and ‘Bareeélona- in 1958.

 

 

  

Mexico city.

 

nh , oy : . “ ue. .
é Tevet (o> fiw) teh peti d oF ar one ave,

. Contacts ain Ensenada, Baja, California, Septeaber 1963:

1. Daily. with: Isaak Karlos CHAPLUK’ (201- 229h18)
and with CHAPLUK's son.

2. 7 September, stayed “5 minutes at Mune STMANOVKA's
Curio Shop.

3. oT September, “dinner with ‘Miguel POPOFF (201- 286055)

Note that ALFEREV claimed that he was a guest of the party of

Eva Samano de Lopez MATEOS, wife of the President of Mexico,

Adolfo Lopez MATEOS,. On the trip to Baja, California; Mrs.

Lopez was attending a Congress of the National Institute for

the Protection of Children.

IO ~ AEGIS

 
   

a L. ‘BEKRENEV, in a top secret lecture toa Soviet minitery Inteltigence course. a
i at Military-Diplonetic Academy, 1960, said, ue oe

 
  
  

   

| "Case officers who use as cover, let us say, the Soviet Trade
_ o:.. Representation, TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover.
ae _. . > assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with ‘.
: . - ° gertain agents whose particular activities officially associate
them with the previously mentioned Soviet institutions. Howevers |
_ such non-clandestine meetings within-a legal residency should be. = -
restricted to a minimum both as to place and time. Meetings of -
this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with
tested and reliable agents in order to avoid provocation by the
local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation -
being used as cover. Such meetings are held as a rule in the work |
offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours: « -
It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that = =~ -
they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt .
and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be .
. e@arried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures agsinst
- tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with
persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually
. signifies a relationship between the two parties that is above and
. beyond official matters." .

Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's own
carelessness. Again Admiral BEKRENEV speaks: : :

"Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate
violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal mot
rashness,-... approached our case. officers at places not stipulated
as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at
his Soviet installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,
while others still showed up personally at the Soviet inatelletion in
order to contact the case officer."

: a | called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Peppich by
phone to his FBI office at 1030-hours on 23 November. : ,

 

 

 
104-10431-10069

 

   

, 23 Hovenber. 1963

ie x “25% SO

   

“avons oR: ‘Assistant Deputy Director, Plans.

 

' © FROM: oe + Aeting nies, ‘SR Division Ss.

- SUBJECT: 7 Contact of: Lee OSWALD with: a nenber of Soviet xB
, . * Assassination Department :

“ (Le According + to an : intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

.-...was’ at the Soviet Enbassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the | .
.. Consul, Valeriy Vledimirovich KOSTIKOV. This was learned when OSWALD celled —
the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, identifying himself by name and speaking .

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was “anything new concerning the telegram to Washington." -

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

1. » °. nothing had as yet been received. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison
od _ officer, Mr. .Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to
“i. belfeve that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.S. passport or
ob visa matter Lperhaps, the new passport mentioned in the “Press articles/,

   
 
  

2. KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer. He was a case officer in an
operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible
for sabotage and assassination). This operation, which is controlled by the
FBI under the eryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved a German-national resident of

-(Oklahoma]who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV in Mexico
City and shortly thereafter with a known.13th Department officer, Oleg BRYKIN,
in New York. The instructions given TUMBLEWEED by the two officers, (pinpointing
objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,

: Left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the

. 13th. : :

 

.3. Of course it is not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to
have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret
Soviet. intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which
show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as
cover for their presence there some sort of open business: Vice Admiral

Steg -53Q

  
 

Document Number

     
      
   

. b CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
‘for FOIA Review on = APR 197 CONDUCTED ont 6 APR 1976)

£ DL IMPDET CL nk BYcueded Aes

 
oo 5. Tam, 1 attaching

 

oy a. eunmary: of our information on KOSTIKOVS 3 and a

. 7) all valid background information now ‘available < on “the work .
.of. the 13th Department of the Foreign AntelLigence of the KGB: . = oO

: Lae Extracts from Re ort on the Soviet State ‘Securit :
'. Service . (KGB 3). dated May 1963, based on information from AELADLE.

“= Executive .

 
 

 

‘b. goviet Use of Kidna x4
| Action, dated August i

-e. Soviet t Stratogte Executive Action, datea october 1961. 7

 

‘and Assassinatto

Tenneat’
. Chief, "sR/er®

 

ee
Fs .

 
‘suByECT: . Valeriy Vasgintrovich KOSTIKOV

assigned to the Soviet ‘Embassy in Mexico . Ay.” 2s. Nice Consul
: On. 19° ‘September 1961. 9

‘three times before this permanent assignment; . ‘moreover,’ int 1959.
_vich KHRUSHCHEV's. party to the United States as an official of ..
.the Soviet Ministry. of Foreign Affairs, but we have no record

of his having come to this country at that time. KOSTIKOV

‘and Barcelona in 1958 and.1959. In late 1959 and early 1960.
he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havana; he

 

 

   
 
   
 

“KOSTIKOV, who". was “port on. 17 March 1933. in: Moscow, was.

JA fluent “Spanish ‘speaker, he had travelled abroad. at least.

KOSTIKOV applied for .a visa to accompany Premier Nikita Sergeye-

 

served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid. —

  

is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to 1 March i960.

The physical. desesiption of KOSTIKOV quite accurately: fits

-that of a Soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in -

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent. This double agent's
Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-
vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief
Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-trainee,
U.N. Secretariat, New York City. BRYKIN was stationed in New
York city from December 1960 to July of this year.

Since arriving.in Mexico, KOSTIKOV is known. to have travellea
three times outside the capital: In March 1963 and again for the
first two weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and
Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of: purchasing cotton. The -
U.S. Department of State, however, has reported that during
these trips KOSTIKOV met local representatives of Movimento
Liberation National and Central Compesina Independienta, both
large Communist front organizations. In addition, according to
FBI sources, KOSTIKOV was accompanied on the September trip by
Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, and he contacted in Ensenada several
persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had been -
associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close.
contact with Cuban diplomats and local Communist leaders during
a February 1962 visit to Quito. .

 
