13-00000

"SEBORE/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

formed. Both Che Guevara of Cuba and Salvador Allende of
Chile have suggested some such coordination, and there is

” some evidence that sub-regional efforts have already begun.

The call for solidarity with Venezuela is not new. In
1963 the Cuban Institute of Friendship with Peoples (ICAP)
made sucha call, anda special effort to promote solidarity
was made shortly before the unsuccessful FALN effort to
disrupt the Venezuelan presidential elections. The attention

. given to.) Venezuela_in the. conference. communique.is signiticant,

 

however, as it commits the Latin American CP's to support

a liberation movement in which “the 3 main. line has n the
armed struggle. As failure of this line in Venezuela would
undermine the line elsewhere, it is possible that the initiative
was as much Cuban as Venezuelan. In any event; the Cubans
began devoting increased attention to Venezuelan solidarity
shortly before the conference and organized a Cuban-Venezuelan
solidarity week during which an FALN Office was opened in
Havana. There is some evidence that the CP's in other |
countries are beginning to organize in support of Venezuela.

  

Behind the language of the conference communique lies

an explicit though sec secret Soviet commitment to support the

armed struggle in Latin America. A CPSU functionary has
recently stated, ina closed r meeting with non-Bloc Communists,
that armed struggle is "likely to be necessary in some
situations in Latin America,'' and a Pravda editorial clearly
spells out the Soviet obligation to support the just struggle of
armed patriots in Venezuela, Guatemala, and '"' a number of ©

-Other countries.'' However, the Soviets apparently look to the

local CP's to protect them from over-commitment and involve-
ment in rash adventurism, and only in the case of parties which
have clearly committed themselves to the support of specific
revolutionary groups does there seem to be an obligation on

the part of the Soviets. This is the-case with Venezuela, where
the CP has clearly identified itself with the policies and
objectives of the FALN. It is less clear in Guatemala, where

the CP recognizes the FAR (a nominal unified guerrilla command)

-3-

ett FOREIGN DISSEM
Auieind ube URL
13-00000

-SHEREFLNO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND OSE ONLY

but admits only a "certain degree of maturity" of conditions
for revolution. In Colombia, the CP admits conditions are
"mature," but admits that unity of action does not exist. In
other countries, theoretical considerations may also qualify
Soviet support. ,

The Soviet obligation to honor its commitment to aid
an armed struggle may also be limited by unwillingness of
Castro and pro-Castro groups to collaborate with the local
CP's. In Guatemala, despite CP approval of the FAR,
difficulty has existed between the CP and extremists in the
13th of November Movement which may delay the realization
of the unity sought.

Despite the theoretical considerations which may limit
Soviet support, there have been significant signs of stepped-up
plans for sabotage, terrorism, and guerrilla activity in several
Central American countries, under the direction of the local
Communist party. In Guatemala, the party has formed a
committee to consolidate information on professional men,
landowners, and military officials who should be "liquidated"
in 1965. In Honduras, Cuban-trained leaders of the Francisco
Morazon Liberation Movement have agreed to submit to CP
direction, and the CP military command has planned militant
action for the post-election period. In E] Salvador, the military
command of the FUAR has been reactivated, and the CP Panama
presented its military plan to Raul Castro at the time of the
conference, asking for Cuban training and arms at the same

_time. In Venezuela also, there have been some developments
- of significance: the chief of the FALN, at the time of the

conference, obtained promises of financial aid from Cuba and
promises of arms from the Bloc; subsequently, he traveled to
the USSR to seek additional support for the revolution.
Reportedly, Cuban leaders agreed to give support only to
those revolutionary groups approved by the local Communist
party. If Castro abides by this agreement, it would resolve
the complaints by various CP's over unilateral Cuban action
and strengthen the hand of mature, orthodox, Communists
ovee the young extremists. However, the record suggests

-4-

-—SECRES/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BAGRERSHND USE ONLY
13-00000

, ~SEGRET/ NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

Soviet and Cuban statements, and covert intelligence sources,
suggest that the Venezuelan, Guatemalan, and perhaps Colombian
evolitionary forces may be the chief beneficiaries of this
Support, although the communique itself promises ‘active aid"

to "freedom fighters" in other countries as well.

  

 

Preparations for the conference were made in Moscow
in early November by various leaders and representatives of
Latin American parties. The meeting was then held in Havana,
attended by a Soviet observer, and subsequently a group returned
to Moscow where they worked out the final editing of the documents
approved in Havana. Before the communique was issued, a
delegation of some ten Latin American leaders traveled to China
in an unsuccessful attempt to gain Chinese cooperation with the
conference agreements. :

The overt conference decisions, as revffied in the
communique, involve four region-wide solidarity projects: |
solidarity with Cuba; solidarity with all Latin American anti-
imperialist struggles; solidarity for the release of political
prisoners; and solidarity in support of the ''combative'' struggle
of the Venezuelan people. Implementation of these campaigns
began promptly with the scheduling of a Cuban solidarity congress in
Montevideo in April and the initiation of an amnesty drive and
other international campaigns. The Montevideo meeting will
probably represent a major effort--comparable to the Mexico
City liberation congress of March 196!--to demonstrate orthodox
Communist willingness and capabilities to support Cuba.
Argentine and Chilean parties have already met to pledge their
utmost efforts to assure the success of the conference.

‘With respect to the general anti-imperialist campaign,
the communique stresses the need for organization ona
permanent basis to give "active" (but unspecified) aid to freedom
fighters in some countries, to 'intensify solidarity" with the
people of Panama, and to give "resolute" aid to independence
struggles in Puerto Rico and European dependencies. The
wording suggests that some regional coordinating body may be

-2-

SEEREP/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACRSROUND DSE ON
 

revolutionary groups appro

action in countries where such action |

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND OSE ONLY

THE HAVANA CP CONFERENCE OF NOVEMBER 1964

I. Summary.

The 22-29 November conference in Havana was the first
publicly acknowledged regional congress of Latin American CP's
since 1929, although it has been the practice since at least 1956
to hold such conferences regularly, if secretly, in Moscow. As
with other such conferences, it was called to coordinate regional
Communist activity with Soviet policy, and represents an effort
by the Soviets to establish orthodox CP control and coordination
over the revolutionary tactics to be employed in each country and
to prevent unilateral support by Cuba to extremist groups of its
own choosing.

Problems resulting from Soviet-Guban differences over
the conduct of subversive operations in Latin America emerged
again after the Cuban missile crisis of October 1962, and were
intensified by the failure of the USSR and the Latin American
CP's to give Castro the support he desired. During 1963 Soviet
pressure on Castro and complaints by various CP's over Cuban.

"interference!!_.in the revolution in their res pective ¢ countries
resulted in a.number of discussions which, in turn, “set thes stage

for the Havana conference. The careful coordination between .
for the Havana conterenc

Moscow and Havana and the publicity given by Moscow to the
final conference communique testify to the importance given by
the Soviets to this display of unity. The endorsement of the

. Moscow declarations of 1957 and 1960 can be interpreted by the

CPSU as a declaration of loyalty to Moscow by the Latin American
parties, including--for the first time--the new PURS of Cuba.

The-unwritten.but.basic, premise .of the.communique_lies
in an agreement by Castro to limit Cuban support to those
fed t by. the CP of the country concerned

he Soviet Bloc to support. armed
is.approved-by.the local CP.

  
 

and, conversely, a pledge |

 

—SEGRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKEROUND OSE ONLY
THE HAVANA CP CONFERENCE OF NOVEMBER 1964

6EGABS/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE Gwut

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Summary

I. Background, Genesis, and Circumstances of the

. Conference

A. The Precedents

B. Problems Requiring Coordinated Solutions

CG. The Havana Conference--an Expression of

1.

2.
3.
4.

The Brazilian Party Protest
The Argentine Party Protest
The Peruvian Party Protest
The Bolivian Party Protest

Loyalty to Moscow

D. The Conference Convenes

IIL. The Conference Decisions

A. The Regional "Solidarity" Projects for 1965

B, First Organizational Moves in the Solidarity

Cc.

The Conference Treatment of the Role of,

l.

Campaigns

and Support for, Armed Struggle

The Soviet Commitment

i

““SECRE# /NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKEAGUNE OSE ONLY

Page

Oo OO

21

2k
SEGRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND OSE ONLY

ro.

C. (continued)

2. Post-Conference Developments in the
Field of Violence

a. Guatemala
b. Honduras
c. Panama

d. Venezuela

’ IV.” The Conference and International Communist Unity

A. Cuba, the Orthodox CP's, and the Other
Liberation Elements

B. The National CP's and Internal Factionalism
V. Gonclusions

Appendix

Page

25

 

 

 

35

 

 

ii

-~SEGRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGRCUND USE ONL
 

The Special Group (CI) Assistants 19 March 1965

_ Paul Eckel; ~~

w

The Havana Conference of Communist Parties, November 1964

There is enclosed for your information and use a CIA
Working Paper analyzing and commenting upon subject conference.
I think you will find the contents of this document pertinent and

‘timely particularly Section Ill dealing with conference decisions.

The dissemination of this document seems particularly
appropriate at this time in view of the discussion at the Group's
18 March meeting concerning USIA's efforts to publicize communist
support for and participation in subversive operations. Use of this
material is governed by the stipulations contained on the inside
cover page in the paragraph entitled, "Limitations."

 

| Paul E. Eckel.)
Special Group Officer

 
 

104-10338-10020} -

re i

woot “SPERET/NOFORN

 

TO: Special Group (CI) Assistants 23 March 1965
7 a
FROM: ° Paul Eckel.

-SUBJECT;: Study entitled "The Havana CP Conference of November 1964"
(CIA = 319/ 00004-65)

Please correct a typographical error on page 7 of subject
study which was sent to you on 19 March 1965. The error is
' found in the seventh Line from the bottom of the page, which when
corrected should read, '... with the ouster of Anibal Escalante
in early 1962, and~-outside. ot

 

 

rgttl ou

ne f
tut

 

 

 
13-00000

BoE,
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ©
CIA - 319/00004-65

WORKING PAPER

The Havana CP Conference of November 1964
3 March 1965

This is not an officially approved publication of CIA.. It is circulated
for information subject to the enclosed statement of limitations.

“S=ESC=R=EeT— Excluded from automatic
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY | “quigencgcr
om Ean Can Re E 2
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

CTA-319/00004-65

SCOPE

The Havana CP Conference of November 1964, 36 pages,
dated” 3 March 1965,” describes the background, purposes, and

circumstances of the Conference of Latin American Communist

_ Parties held in Havana 22-29 November 1964, and discusses

the issues involved and the decisions taken. It also identifies
the programs and courses of action decided upon at the confer-
ence, certain of which have already been placed in operation,
and discusses the tactics to be used in carrying them out.

LIMITATIONS

There are a number of instances in this paper in which
the language employed has been adopted for the spetific
purpose of source protection. It is essential, therefore,
that any proposed use of the paper or of material drawn from
it be cleared in advance with the originator. The circulation
of the paper should be kept on a strict need-to-know basis,
Hence, any questions with respect to the use of this document
or the material therein in a manner contrary to the dissem-
ination controls must be addressed to the Document Division,
OCR. : :

‘STESC=ReE-?
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
