|
i
i
i
i

 

 

 

The education budget has been increased, and he has some Say

in the selection of the Ministry of Education's personnel. Even
though the military plocked appointments for Maria Elba Gutierrez
and Professor Chavez they are still in the ministry; Chavez in
the "Instituto Normal" and Maria Elba as Secretary General of

the Ministry (the third ranking post in the ministry.) Baptista
has good relations with the United States which is helping the
education program. The cabinet .seems to be rather stable at

the moment, although there continues to be pressure to, remove
Rolon Anaya and Marcelo Quiroga. The latter iS 4 candidate to
replace Juan Lechin Oquendo as the secretary general of the
union organization. The strongest military man in the govern-
ment from the standpoint of firmness is Edmundo Valencia, the
Minister of National Economy.

5, The civilian cabinet members believe that the United
States is happy with them. They think that the military are
incapable of running the government. There has been no in-
dication of a aval. among the cabinet members. There is also
a freeze on Bolivian-US relations. The military continues to
pe worried because there js not a political party behind the
government. Some of the civilians wanted to gain the support
of the MNR, but the military did not want to do that. .

6. Carrasco gave one example of the military-civilian
interplay: The Minister of Education Baptista wanted the education
pill signed on 9 April 1970 which is the anniversary of the 1952
revolution. Valencia opposed it because it was the anniversary.
Colonel Juan-Ayoroa continues to be opposed to the return of MNR
people to the government. .

7. Hernan Siles'when he was in Bolivia saw Losada, Baptista,
and twice saw Ovando. The reason for his removal from the
country is as follows: Arellano denounced Siles to General
Torres and gave him some written material on a plot. Torres
then announced that there was a plot set for 9 April. Colonel
Ayora called Siles in and said that he had to leave Bolivia
within four days. The government wanted him out of the country
on 9 April. Ayoroa told Siles that he could return to Bolivia
on 10 April. Carrasco received the above story from Siles to
whom he talked many times.. Ovando believes that Siles is no
longer interested in governmental power. He is interested in
the MNR, and he does want to destroy the political power of
Victor Paz Estenssoro. While in Bolivia Siles atlienated Serate-
Reich, Arellano, etc. Siles attributes to Arellano his betrayal

_to the government. 1

 

 

 

 

 
104-10072-10241

 

 

 

13 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

_ 4
SUBJECT: Meeting With [wsLAB/1) on 10 April 1970

/ 1. Security and Arrangements: The meeting took place at:
[wustaB/1 "sf home where he is still recuperating from his eye ;
operation. I had to delay my arrival from 1200 until 1230,
and I phoned him concerning the delay. He answered the door
and we went upstairs where we sat in an upstairs study. I left

at about 1400.

. / \ :
s 2. Production:t\ fWUSLAB/I] said that Jose Raul Viera Linares
[haa phoned him at his-Home at about 1100 on § April). Viera said
that a friend had described jto him an acquaintancé who had had .
an eye problem similar to fw/SLaB/T] (or words to that effect),
and that,;Viera now realized the sériousness of the case and
that WUSLAB/ If would not be able to travel. Viera said that -
the Chances wére now remote that he would’be returning to, New.
York. <A friend of his named "Rogelio" would contact (WUSUAB/1

te did not say;when or where, but it would be when circumstances -

permit. {WUSLAB/1jasked if Viera might be assigned to another
foreign country. Viera did not deign to answer this question.

 

 

: ba /
, 3. #2 asked [WUSLAB/1/what he considered the

lera_ were. He, thought an important factor would
e Viera! =| He would not be
but he did like good living. He also pro-
ably did not like living in. Havana, and would not like to stay

5 there for a very long period. [3/1] thou h. h i jera came
£ out to i as Spain’ that could ~
d easily In the United StatéS Viera was on his

guard. Also in the United States Viera did not have high level
contacts with the local government, Whereas in other countries
he would be expected to have such contacts. Some of those con-
tacts might then be also in contact with U.S.sofficials and you

 

 

 

 

 

KE Yoo

wet

4. Carlos Antonio Carrasco, the Nagional Director for ;
Education Planning, (visit&€ WUSLAB/1/ on )/April 1970. Carrasco
claimed that the Bolivian government is in a period of stalemate.
There is progress being made in only two fields. One of these
is planning and the other is education. The Minister of Education
Mariano Baptista has more power than some of the other ministers.,.

fer wks fe

  

 

  

 

 

could get a cross-check on Viera. I told[ WUSLAB/1/ that we would
finish th on Viera the next time we get™ togethers” viet o-

 

 

 

i.
}
t

  
 
 

  

é. ;
8. Nothing has happened on Paz's negotiations with the
government.

9. The arrival of the Soviet Ambassador has produced good
consequences according to Carrasco. Relations are smoother
with the American ambassador. The Bolivians feel freer to be
more friendly knowing there is someone else to turn to. The
Soviet presence is a sop to placate the left in Bolivia. It
serves aS a substitute for the lack of leftist participation
in the government. Ovando may use the Soviets as the need
arises, just as he will try and use the Americans.

10. Ovando and Torres wanted to expel a Colonel Limay
who is a very right-wing government employee. The military
opposed it and he is still in his job. Ovando has been thinking
of a constituent assembly as a device to legalize his government.
He very much wants a legal: presidency.

 

/. ‘

il. Plans: fiwusLaB/ will be returning to limited office

work the week of (137April I promised to call him during the
week. (A cable Was sent on the Viera information on 10 April.)

 

 

LOR?

FLOYD B. MCCULLY

  

cane

[inser] 06S

peace une

 

 

“|
i
|

 

  
