 

    
   
    
      
     
        
        
    
   
      

- ~y

 

. eat iA a

. 5 SUBILCT: Roview ef “CD feletionshics “ith Fas Acericaa Torld Afrwaya,
ite Suteidierics and Individuals

forsoaaal telicve that sowa inforration was vrovided. .
so jofat section resulted to sy _snatloice in regard to
Ageacy support of

 

 

BPE Aa asec ma ma

2. After Mise Setroge and Hr. AfMinite cotpletad thety acrvay

 

and afpned thvir certification (attached), “ina Sehredt lecated a
tuo additdonal feems, Bion A554 ard fA O0654 Caitacked), sitet :
indicate that a requcse waa rade by nl p£fic£al sed: responded - ; .

to by Crfef, 129 fin read to tha cantanplsted Southeast Asia
eperations ly Continents! Jirlines, a pocelbic oupetiter.

. 2

3. You will uate an incousistency in the iiatlire ef cur
natarial oa}: He. AFFiaLto aud : Sechrect seve eenitised the
inferunattion cisy selectud and hava used true asces fa thelr conaunte
“te me. In tre interest of spaced, I have not corrected thie
- dncousistency. . ,

  

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

wee fercrsen 2. RORTOS
-\, ~ Glie£,!Dozertic Collection Division

     
 

- _ Be CE ed
oa xt OS ee

1

b-Pa-al

10 ceteter 1975

MVORANIUM POR: «CTA Revfew Croup

t

j ‘ .

4

: ;

t . :
' h i
i TEE t Spactal Asafatent to tha AO A Ce . i
t if

i

\

i

{

OUESTCT 2 Neview of (OD Relationchips “ith_Lan Avetiesa
. - VYorld Afreaya, {te Culetéfavieus ad Indsvastols
erences

   
   
  

  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

je Attached Is a reyort to ne eertliving thet the ECO récoras
on Fan daarican Verld Stresze @2A) have Lech ganrened. My reviay
_ ef the possible Catensry Ai0 dtera 43 39 fellevz:

 

N

 

. £ (A Tilt .
a J Jten 4.0. - The individuals Senttoned are probably
. Mew and Nea. Gcorge dt sqenwentiit of Usllas vie, t

Totiavea, are tue oly 4 vio unre roquainced with
oth Lee_berroy Coale Peesidene Kannedy: aot
Category TT aud of so cox equeuces is py judcmente

- stens Hig ee.
* geens 4.d. and a./- 2 aca nothing aisproser ia
theese; tha docutents survarise in draft che
cooperation uf a PAA ergloyee with tha Air Fores
after cocrdfnation with Oc, There vould La no
impropriety ia Air Force paseing ot otheruise
revarding, a TAA enployor for hin ascintasce, &
‘equmon Air. Torso practicc. 5

   

  
  

 

 

   

Ttew 4p. — Based on fr. Affiuico md Mise Schrodt's
cerment, I directad that another easrch ehould be meade

 

“peceues ths ranocandys suzgeats that DCD might be

able te se ite Influence with énevican €f{zns, tacluding
PAA, to rales “oluto'a erin to the US 2 sirecesé. thera

| 49 we indication anywhere in our cace earresnamdence,
Dowaver, that Identity 27, an Africa Division officer.
wietted ECD'a tev York Meld Offices on Gus etter or that
the aubject vse aver dixcysned further than ia this efogle

 

phoce of covrespondantus

 

* geem Aahty = The counent ia sisabely incorrect in

   

thae HYRO G35 equrente tag CTA faterdal on the :
Soviet SST be ‘given tof] nen tiew York Hicld Office :
24
. Ec =T" 2 UTLET CL BY 010650
SECRE
® : :

 

 

i
ft

 
