 

mo, SEGHET = -
ate

ciganization until his cefection im Apri! 1664.
° 5. Subject's only travel prior to bigs cefuction
was a trip to Mexico City im March 1£64 to hold intele
Yigence neutings.

6. Subject was never assx iated with the Communist
Party. Othe: than his pa: ticipation in the aotie
Eatista struggle in iy) en: his seivices itor the 26th
o1 July Movement, Subject is not known to have engaged
in any poiitical activity. In 195d he joined Fidel
CASTEO's foices in the Sieria Navetia, returning to
Havana upon the fzil o1 the Batista Govesnrent.

/. Subject is currentiy in Biami ermptoyicd asp an
.&gent for CIA fo) which he 1ecedves a salary o: $600.00
py. conth anc on which he pays U.S, incom tay. It is
expected that his cmployaent by this Agency with continue
as Jong as the present governmrent in Cuba is in existence.
If the CASTEO Government were over thrown tu favor of a
HoneCorrunist ra10 of governpent ana Subse t's useiulness
to CIA vere obviates, the Agency woule asaist him in
gaining employment with an Amuiican firm that has
business associations with outlets o3 tires in Letin auc
Central Arerica there he could use his native language
anc hnowle eye of Latin Amuricans anc theii nethocs.
Boveve:, 4¢ ig belfevec that Subject woule picicr to
ieturp to Cuba if s non-Corrunist Gove nment vere io
powes end that he woulc Le an asset in the cstablisheent
of thet gove:nrunt. The only Agency comettuent cade to
Subject is that he woula ke assistcc in obtaining pu. ra-
nent resivence in the United States.

Williem V. Brot
Chict

Weoetern Hemisphere Division
poormscreres( “= — ue,

£5 August 1966

Distribution:
Orig & 1 = Adcicssee
~ C/WHD
~ WH/Registry
~ C/WH/C
- "H/C/LSEC
- WH/C/CICS ere

- DCI Cara -
- OS/AAS Xt

 

et pe et pe pet Let pt
 

104-10183-10303
a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so SECRET

WH/C 66-403

BU/- "79 FOS/
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Donestic Contact Service
SUBJECT : Viedinir RODRIGUEZ LeHere

Subject as an agent and will maintain Primary responsi-
bility for Subject following the Sranting of his request
for permanent residence in the United States,

2. Subject tg a caucasian male born 6 February
1937 in Havana, Cuba. He is 5 feet 2 inches tall, and
weighs approximately 130 pounds. He has a long face,
nediun complexion, black hair and brown eyes, and is
neat in appearance. Subject is the gon of Carlos .
HOPRIGUEZ Ferrer and Josefa LAHCRA Merreao, who reside
in Havana, Cuba.

3. RODRIGUEZ attended kscuele Publics #46, first to
sixth grade; Primaria Superior #15, seventh and eighth
grado; Artes y Oficioa (Construction Civil) one year; -

end Instituto de Wabena for tro years,

4. Subject was s mexbor of the Cuban Rebel Army
from 1957 to 1961, during which time he edvanced fron
the rank of Private to Licutenant, He was imprisoned
at Castello Principe, Cuba, from 14 July 1957 to 11
February 1958 for participetion in Sabotage and propa-
gende activities on behalf of the 26th of July Kovenent,

Maestra and rexained there until the ead of 1955 shen
he returned to Havana upon the fall of the BATISTA
Governsent, He sas a Precinct lisutenant of the Cuben
National Police fron Noverber 1959 to vecember 1361,
at which time he resigned from the Arry under vhich he
had held hig rosition in the National Police. He vag
out of work until April 1962, at which time he wag ema

SECRET

. dv, ) eb

 

 
