 

 

: reported ab the rate of about ‘bwe 3 a day.

SECREI

kriow a yreat deal about highly claseified projects in the Pentagoa which:
have Hutte or nothing to du with our iAtetligence collRetion or analysis.

tt you are A working ah ne Soviet AM problem you get to know a great

: deal about our own ABM, :

Many people. work long hard hours to try to ingure that the KGB

ed in getting ‘a ataff eniployes on thetr peri :

 
  

e past five years attempts by foreign tntelligence- officer

 

piinctpally Soviet,: to. recruit u. Ss. Government employees: have’ been

I During thla Potiod there were-~ ;

more. than i 900 Incidents ia which’ the foreigner felt he had developed

    

the employee to the point that. he could com right o out t and tivaice the

    

 

tment pitch, Moét of those targeted were State Department |
employees, with the Agency. and the Department of Defense led for

second, This at least shows that the KGB is trying. But perhaps the

- most ‘significant thing to think about is this. If this many cases were -

Feported, how about the recruitment attempta that were not.

My purpose fa reviewing the above is not to make you start

looking crosseyed at your colleagues, but merely to suggest that you :

; give the matter some thought from time to time.

9

SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

oy

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

kdfiad -of-clearance from’ another Government agency.

SECKEI

Let's seoume that we have been auccese(ul in keeping any KGE
. ‘ mo
agents off the payroll, What do they do next? Vho els@ comes into the

cla Headyuartern building > ¥ found out recently, to my great surprise,

‘that there are 100, 000 visitors to this balling ina year? stime. But -

‘let's get epeeltic, letts tals About. Ost.” .- Lon

 

“Between Augus rt 1970 and carly this month, OSI had 293 visitors..

 

ot this number, the bulk, or 454," were from other Goveranient agencteo,

o 138 were c contractors cleared: by CIA, “white the remaining 201 were ,

-private individuale who eltiver. hold: no clearances at all or hold. some

Unfortunately, GIA is ‘rather uniqiie i, a spending the. stots, money

As you farowy we have our own clear~ ----

and maniisure ta clearing people.

“ance system and do-not, rely-on the checke of others for our employees or — ‘

our contractors, With other agenciés, and particularly with the Depart> _

_ ment of Defense, with employees and contractors in the millions the kind
. of inveotigative checks we perform in CIA would Fun to the thousands. of
‘people a! and the billlona of dollars, and ia all Ukelihood the whole defense

-effort would grind to a screeching halt if they did.

Too often then an Individual with a top secret clearance from
another. agency ig simply an Individual whose name, when checked

10

- SECRET

 

i
i
i
i

 

 

 

 
 

 

|

a ae a : : ~
a _ as : oe

SECRET

we have just Jeacribed, the 2% A unit is analyzing all of the data ob

tained, devising voctrine aad guidance and putting out reports about

. develspnienta and trends ag well ae specific studies re seman in

much the same manner as you write a report ia OSI, with bf course, :
the big'difference that Cl reporta are intended primarily for Cl audlences
and policy purposes ao that 4 ‘the’ clsgulation is much ieee nan ts the ‘case |

for an O51 or EMSAG. product. The R& A ualt looks’ at the activities

ofan individual ‘KGB officer-as tactical reporting, Activity at the

‘Soviet. -Fimbagoy | ap a-whole to sonaidered to be Spe¥atiqnat reporting

while operations of the 2GE in toto a are agsessed as strategic reporting.
\- :

‘Sine ¢ alt intelligence organizations ‘handle certain ottuations. in. certain.

ways and each has ‘its hallmarke which ‘reflect: among other thlniga the
society whléh it? represents; long-term analysis by the R&A unit is -

erucial te establish the standard operating procedures for recogali ing

Seviet operaitons for what they are and then countering them, -

Now, back to you aa a target. Naturally the EGB would Hke to

achieve that ultimate succegs’+ a penetration of CIA. Having an ageat

inthe enemy intelligence service is a particularly rewarding pastime

because people in lateligence services know #0 much about what ts

going on in their own country. that is classified. Many of you, for instance,

SECRET

 

eI

5B

 
 

 

a countersueveraion unit, a counterpropagenda

debrietisgs, the handling of. waliceins asd defectors ‘and joint operations ‘

secRel

ataffare coaserned, {ta etructure aad functions are to-a large entent

  

deterrsiued by the activitles of its chi f adversary and by national ub«

Jectives. La our cane thie would of course be the KGB and GRU.

Basically spéaking, inoat Ct Staffs break down into an. operations group

and a reseatch ‘and analysts SHOU. wae the usual administrative sups

 

 

port includigg a very strong techsicat unit." The operations group

 

 

 

 
 

; ign tiatson Services and pe

   

 

you 1 iesire, Are there any questions :

A SI operations group with workiewide responsibilities is usually

' broken down into geographle' areas with aii operations ‘braach for ‘each

area, Atypical operations branch would have a countereaplonage unit, .

nait, and ‘aa operational
security unit,

While the operations group and branches are worrying about the

day-to-day problems {nvolved in the baaJdling of operations of the type

“s

secret

 

 
14-00000

SECRET

uneasy that such highly seasitive scieotific and techriical! information

and operations are not bother protected than they are, however, this

 

fa, for my part, * Peron opinion,

i

Under the terms of >

 

SID No. 6, the Gla and la tura ‘the Cl.
ao. : ‘Staft bas: USIB responsibility for Gounterlatlligense aordad.
means. s that cr Stat is to brovig @ the lead ‘in developing . acentral register > 2 2 [ °>

This a ee,

(of people of counterintelligence interest, developing counteriatelligence ,

: doctrine, setting up cHannels for sharlag Cl informattén, ete. n does’ :

 

act as policeman for the comminity. Fach agency: Ass,

 

ob, 7 not meaid that |
responsibte ‘for. pollciig its own houses and frankly some ‘do-aw etter a

job tha others. “Howevi 7, there iq direct overtapping ‘ta ithe jet age

 

between’ “SA's rebpsn bitities and the internal secusity ecponstallities

 

ofthe FBIL There ie no, > cléar line of demarcation betw een US, “Agencies. .

AN wark together. :

 

Ae i an activity, Cl work can a be considered to be two matching

 

Boo halfo; security ‘and counterespioaage. Security conalsté ot establishing —

  

passive or statle defeuses agaiusi ali hostile and concealed attempts
_ to interfer with our intelligence functions regardless of who tries to

t interfer and protecting our secrets. Counterespicnage on the other

hand requires the identification of a specific advereary, -a knowledge

SECRET

 
 

  

 

that their thrust is turned back upon the agreasor.

- git-and- daild, detenatye ‘barrie F

beyoui the vequirements 3

 

, intelligence ‘service.

 

 

SECRET

ofwhat epecifie ope rations he is carrying out and the countering or

neutralizing of his operations by penetrating or manipulating them 80

- Finally, and‘thia to mé is the real giits of Clas I know it, a :
defensive ‘service, sucha a Counteristelligence taf, cannot aimply

te must accept a “redponstbalty

 

 

aecurity: i€ we-read secuilty to mean Pro

   

“tection agalnst ‘landestine or. covert attacks on our people, installations, .

ana sitivitien. big this is alt, we seck- to Ses any, y sophisticated latelligence

 

. ‘7
ch ae ) the F AGB « or Y GRU, wit be. too strong for us; and we will

 

   

flad ourdelves une quat to the task; Cova counterinteltigencé rust be.

hb inuat ‘Yearn al it can about our enermics, lear their

 

 

agg re as Wwe.

secrete and be: privy. to thelr councils. Jn other’ words, the one trans, ;

” acending’ objective aft counterintelligence is the penetration « of the enemy

A ‘Soviet defector is of much less value thas. a

‘ clandestine penetration of the. Soviets service because with a defector,

the Soviets know precisely what he} Anew and thus how baatty they are

hurt, With a penetration, you have the ofly means of really knowing”

whether you youraélf are penetrated,

Insofar as tne organization and activities of a counterintelligence

SECRET

  

 

 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

frame ap DDS&T. Before. 1956, there, were. ‘eigall SuT sactisi

Jas ‘overseas Fep?

 
 

“SECRET

say that in thia age of technology where, in my view, ‘the United States

hae:no equal, -the. Directorate of Sciénce and ‘Technology and ité offices

 

-such as the Off: ¢ of Selentifte intelligence rate pretty high on the .

priority lst of targets. c hae: to +> look at'the Publicity e+ and took”

~ atthe’ fact that as so niany of you know, ‘the Soviet technological gap”

   

   
  
 

mething. the ‘Soviets are re trying to ‘close ‘twat. Intereating! ty

 

ough, the: KGB Sat etfort. Has “expanded ‘tn Fougily, the game time we
w ich

   

. were part of geographié area aivistone. About 1956/57, these isolated. 2

   

 

the department was upgraded into ai ‘fall fledged. directorate.

   

entation is “‘egoueerned, “the ussk ‘Was “at siots ‘in

 

IAEA, Twenty percent of these’ aie occiipied by KGB sat case officers.

O.K:, eo you never heard of any Russians snooping around OSI .

 
 

and be ides security ie there with badges and locked safes, etc.,.80°
we are-protected from’attack, Don't you believe it. Let us for a

moment pretend that we are KGB or GRU operations officers.and that

we wish to penetrate OSI. How do we go about it? Do'we send one of

our nice Soviet lade to call? Do we use a case officer from one of the

Eastern European eatellites? Just for an Idea of the magnitude of

SECRET

 

: ato an. Sut department and fii 1963, vo oe an ee
par

 

 

  
 

 

10

4-10/96- 10029

 

 

i
!
1

| be held-on-22 and:23 February 197k,

- quseion of counterintélligence, Tam going to continue that process. I

am going to talk about intelligence collection, the process of-targettiag, °

RANDUM FOR: |

. entation was given ty
of CifSsG,

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

© SECRET ws

 

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OPE RATIONS |

 

Talk. to be given-at an OSI Intelligence Collection Setuldar'to -

Yesterday-and today you hay ve held discussions onthe intéligence

 

and exploitation. In this hour ‘Tong. dis-

 

 

collection procésa, ‘targettin,

and the process of exploitation. However, in contrast to the: other

speakers ‘in the seminar, Tam. going to discuss you as a target.

kor most of us serving in the Sixectorate ot éeience and Tech-
nology or the Directorate of Intelligence, security on a daily basis
consists of showing your badge to the man at the coor and making sure,
that ‘your safe is closed at night, During the day we associate with our
colleagues who weer badges to testify to the fact they have been cleared.
Outsiders who come into view also wear badges indicating that they too
have been cleared. Thus wrapped in this cloak provided us by security,
few of us give much thought to the fact that a major power with endless
funde considers the United States and in particular the Central Intellie
gence Agency to be the main enemy, the primary adversary, the

prime target." There is documentary proof of this. Ican go on to

  
 

SECRET

the known resources available tous as KGB sificers, consider that —
in 1969 there were more than 21, 000 Soviet citizens resident ia some
“7? noa=Communist countries. Of these almost six thousand were”

: _gfifigial ‘Soviets and sixty percent or 3,560 of these official Soviets

i
|
|
t
|
f
|
|
7

were intelligence officers. Putting this in local terms, there are-100 :

   

_ toa. it woutd be more ‘than prudent: to assume that at Teast 60 of the

 

Fg addition ‘to. “ets forma ble -

 

; ‘Soviet intelligence officers.

 

 

Aadiag to the Washington contingent ftom these services: brig 6 our”

up’ to. about. 100. Bloc intelligence oificers: Abs bat! you. gay,

he FBI watches them. Do they? Consider the statistics. Assuming’

‘a a3 man ‘eurvelllance team, which is ‘far toa few for a good surveillance

    

es, . operation, 2 ur per ‘day. coverage of these people -would on the basis

. ‘of 3.eight hour obits require 900 people in the street seven days ‘per

 

week. W ith theée figures, you. are talking about some 20% of the
entire FEI staff of agents just to handle thie emall plece of the pro-.
diem. Nevertheless, if all we had to worry about were these 100 Bloe
‘agents in Washington, weé could rest easy. At the moment for example,

‘the FBI is terribly concerned about the proposed new Soviet

SECRET

Y

Soviets ofttetally lated Ba é diplorata at the Eesbasay here in Washing :

   
  
 

 

 

 
pe SECRET

4 "Gansulate in an Francisco which « ill turn louse the KG oa the

- coast.

 

No, the chances are that the fellow we need to worry vbsut is :

 

a nice friendly American or hia Ualeon counterpart who is in the
bulldiag and who:is wearing a badge. In other werds, a-penétratioa ~—

“agent. _ With the use. of thzt term, let me digress for a-moinent and |

 

' try te lay out for you-what-counteriatelligence is all. about, :

“ There are several ways ‘to look at-countertritelligencé.. One --

 

‘ thing that itis not is another name {33 security, ‘even though there

 

"are security factote Involved. Within’ we try to defend or protect

 

three things: our pédplé, cu? installations, ahd our activities. ‘Pros
tecting people and things fs tie primary job of the Office of Security,"
Wathin the Clandestine Service the third item, protecting our activities,

7 ds a joint responsibllity between"the various area divisions and the ~

_a function similar to a Counterintelligence Staff in NNS&'T because
_ traditionally they were aot engaging in operational activities which
had to be protected, This, as you are aware, is no longer true. Some

of us who have been exposed to both sides of the house are somewhat

4

 

| | SECRET

 

 

‘ Counterintelligence Staff.” Traditionally speaking, there haa ‘not been |

 
