 

 

 

SECRET

  

Page 4 of Attach. A.

& litsle sooner than he intetied, in fact almost as soon

.86 possible.)

12. AMLASE talked about the two possibilities
of re-taking Cuba ~ either thru iavaston by US troops, or
his way. He also realized, however, that invasion was

not to be considered sertously at this tine. ‘Also, AMLASH -—

talked about hte ability te take some men into the hilla

WikZin the hills. Also the Soviet equipment made the govt
forces much more formidable than in Batista's time. ANLASI

be expected to receive USG aid. 1¢ ts hoped that he

does realize that Jisvana must firat be taken... or failing
that, a truely sigable piece af Jand (say, almost an '
entire province) whioh could be a true rallying point and —
staging ground mder couplece Rebel control, from which ~- ~
the rest of the {sland could be wrested from the Fidelistas
and the Conmunista, :

13. In summary, the talks with A/l led the
undersigned to believe that AMLASH is again entering
one of his skeptical woods, one which our actions have
done little to aispel. Too little and too late.......

End of Report

 

 

 

 
 

 

mer me

wel eee

tage
po /
/ /

afl

rg.

“tr

Fy

SENET

 

ATTACEMENT A T6:" AMMIP MEMO OF MEETING OF 14 NOV 1963

 

The following tnforwation and observations wore obtained
from A/l during the above meeting:

1. AMASH Secretary:
(nickname: me) calle 25 — #526 Apt 6
St., No. 526.... Vedado - TcLephone 30:

(Note AMLASH has considerable conf
and has suggested that letters or

there on @ one or two-shot deal.)

Brnestinn ACOSTA Gonzalez
(presumably cur 25th
3665. 7

idance in hie secretary,
packages could be sent

2. In response to the question of whom AMLASH
wight turn to in order to carry out his plens, AMVYHIP
mentioned the following persons:

or

5.

Ramon GUIN.

Wan ALMEL ,
ie .NIEVSS
J {Pepin NAKANIO

which (Juan ALMEIDA
In addition ors

ca. 33 yre old, who is functionary.

Wn Navona cuntofpal_govt.

‘eirele of. acquaintances in Havana. -

rc He ia
Has wide

 

his brother “fin-T

CASTEL and CHONON

1 stated that

\Hajor_Tony CASTEL,
t he felt (DIAZ-ANGUELLES -
could be used and were trustworthy;
» on the other hand, would not be utilized

and

& the initial efforts by AMLASH, but, if his efforts were

successful, they could be coun

pericd which fo

"infer-sanctun", however.
diles PLAs

3 0)
fit into the (caSTaRcHOHON
friendly with Toheeeta not. be

loyalty was to FIDEL CASTRO.
gh

<  —ematte ne, ethe aaa e MeE ae ae te can

llowed.

| and Garique
ld never he utilized

When asked about Qn jors Pedro)

category, and

MBONET Gomez, A/T

RSONET would
» though

trusted as his primary

at
via

Fron

ted on to support LASH in the
They would never be taken into’ the -

 

  
  
    
    
  
 
 

 

104-40183-10008

 

on . ' a - oe te

 

es nS

- 20 November 1963

  
    
  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT : AMWUIP/1 Meeting, New York City
Thuraday, 14 November 1963 :

1, Meoting Time/Place. This meeting was laid on-
by phone fron Washington on 13 November. It took place as’ .
scheduled using an office/work-room in A/l*s jewelry factery-—
showroom at 31 W. 47th St., New York. us a

2. Purposes of Meeting. This meeting was scheduled
in order to obtain information and identificatione from A/1
revelant to the AMLASH Operation. We were particularly
interested in determining AMLASH's present attitude toward
the Operation and any details of or numes of likely
confederates whioh he nay have discussed with A/l ofter .
Ontrich‘s departure from the scene. We were also intorested
fn using A/l ae a check against the list of likely AMLASH
confederates which had been compiled by the MHAPRON group.

1

i

1

i

1

{

i

|

| 3. Finances. The undersigned was prepared to.

| give AMVUIP/) “sufficient funds to cover his expenses and |,
those of AMLASH during the recent three-weck sojourn in ue -

| Europe which A/t made at our request. Uowever, 4/1 refused

H to accept any remuneration whatsoever, stating that the .

| ‘ money we had given him for his round-trip—tictot’($950,00)- -— - -
wad enough. This, for the record, represents an outlay.
conservatively of some $1200 to $1500 by A/l from his own
pocket on KUBARK behalf, not to mention tho lost time from

| his own business. We believe this gesture should be

 

remembered in future dealings: with A/l.

4. General, A/l was feeling poorly as the result
of a flu-type Cold when we met. He stated that he would not
have come in at all were it not for our soheduled meeting.
Nevertheless, he spent willingly several hours with us,
going over the points in which we were interested, The
meeting terminated at 1530 with no inoidents cf a security

 

nature noted. :

5. Details of Meeting. Collecting’ information
for the AMLASH operation constituted the principal of
discussions during this meeting, anc may be found as
attachment A to this report. A copy is filed also in the

AMLASH 201.

 

 

  

BHO {pe TLE

 

 

Ba : :
thse Ea
i

 
 

han

 

 

SECRET

 

Pega’ of Attach. /A-

_~,_-8._ Concerning Majors William GALVEZ Redriguea\ . ;
Qicter BORDON Machado, Crescendio PEREZ_(Montano?)) and :

Antonio LUSSOW (4£026N0} Batlilo, A/l stated that he did
ot know these types well and therefore had little to sa:

regarding them. lie did say that he did not cure for GALVEZ )
personally and that he was a little “psycho"; BORDON was
Ox; (PEREZ wos an older man, ca. 60 years, who was a
nhonentity who ha@ his rank because he had guided the GRAMMA|
roup\ into_the bills at the beginning of the fight agatinat,

Batista; Wussosh was probably too loyal to Raul CASTHO to be

considered for any initial action, 7
— eee ee ha) Botion. 7

 

 

“te

4, hen questioned about the identities of followers
of Major (METAS, A/L stated that it would be better to
refer to H, as he (A/1) could only give information that
was three years old and hence not very accurate. We did not
press the question, nor suggest names, as it was evident
that he felt that his answers would simply not give a true,
current picture.

&. A/l provided the full nane of a possible lead ;
which he had discussed earlier wi ich: a a
Colle BRERA t 6, Vedado is an aseistant to i
“Director of rts" @ National Govt e

[_- ww mavanss | | j

' @. Ie addition to the above information, the
undersigned diacugsed various aspects of the AMLASH case,
and in particular, questioned a” about AMLASH's frane of
mind and future plans which he may have revealed to A/l_.
after Ontrich departed the scene. A/] made several. points,. .
which basically botleo down to the fact that AMLASH was
still not pleased with the support he was getting from the .
USG side. The visit with DAINOLD, who acted in the capacity
of @ representative of high levels of the Govt concerned :
with the Cuban problem, satiefied AMLASH as far as poliocyy
was concerned , but he was not af all happy with the fact
that he still was not given the technical assistance for
the operational plan as he saw it. A/l said that AMLASH
dwelt constantly om this point. He could not understand
why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which
promised a final solution to the problem, while, on the
other hand, the USG gave much equipment and money to exile
groupe for their inoffective excursions against Cuban
coastal targets, According to A/1, AMLASH feols strongly
on this polut, and if he does not get advice _and materials -

 

SECRET

Sree a ae era Pa NY OR a ey NNSA, Ca ieam e Fon a Wns

 

 

  

 

 
 

ers

| from USG technician,

- SECRET

Page 3 of Attach.

he will probebly become fed-up again,
and we will lose whatever progress we have made to date. -
A/\ stated that AMLASN now has his feet wet vis-a-vis
Cooperating with USG and has accepted the fact that he will
Work profitably and securely with it. It is this that we
stand to lose with our procrastination. AMLASH also —
talked about going to the French terrorist group, the OAS,
in order to get the ratertals and guidance he needs. It
is believed. that he was talked out of this idea, after the

dangers involved were discussed with AMLASH.

7. With regard to the radio gear, AMLASIC stated
that he did not feel that he wanted to take one in with
him, particularly in view of the recent arrests in Cuba
of agents carrying concealed radios. Me was not opposed,
however, at this time to havéng:a radio cached for hia,
to be recovered by him later, .

8. According.to AMMIP, {£ there is any interest
fin having AMLASIE link up with other trusted asseta in
Cuba, these nanes would have to be given to him beYore he
returned; otherwise he would not trust any other means
used later inside te get hin to initiate or respond to such
contacts. , , j

® A/l stated that AMLASH talked about getting
aid frou, or at least discussing his poeition, with
Maaolo RAY. However, he stated that he questioned whether
this was the best idea, since if RAY came to Paris while
he (LASH) was there, people would conclude that there was-
souething between the two, Another spot would be better,
thought AMLASH.

10. At the time of A/i's departure, AMLASH
said that he would contact "Jack" (Rea Stent, Paris
staffer) upon his return’ to Paris. (This he subsequently
did on the 15th of November, according to info received
‘from Paris-sonewhat belatedly). .

a ‘ .
: 11. When AMLASI, A/l, and VENEGAS were together

in Rome and Italy, VENEGAS told AMLASIE that people were
betting that LAST would not return to Cuba. Some had also

' questioned his mother on this point. AMLASH reportedly

told VENEGAS to cover all the hete he could as he would
be o rich man, (It was at this time, according to A/1,
that AMLASH decided that he had better roturn to Mavana

SECRET

'

‘A

p

 

 

 
