14-0000 rs

«
a
o eyegttioe ae se

SECKET ;

0100 Paris time, but received no return call. !

i. ce. During the period subsequent to the call to

i PERNANDEZ, the writer discussed the situation with Afi, It
was agreed that there was little we could do until we had
heard from R himself. The writer also took this opportunity to
let A/l know that we were rather concerned over the arrival
of R with a message from AMLASIL, particularly if indeed it
has any connection with AMLASH's future plans. (We knew algo
at this time via the PARI cable, but did not so atate to A/1,
that R had revealed to TRASANCO that he also expected another
*sourter", Jose Alberto IRARRA Martin, aka “El Loco", to
arrive next week with additional word from AMLASH.) A/1 was
aleo told that the arrival of these messages from AMLASI

was further clouded by the fact that AMLASH was ia touch with
us through another channel.

{

ad, In reply, A/l agreed that there may be sone
cause for concern, but in fact he was not too apprehensive es
he felt both men were "1006" behind AMLASH. A/1 went on to.
say that by this he meant that both men hed been for a long
time associated with the circles in which AMLASH had been a
leader, and could be regarded as “loyal” *%o AMLASH. However,
he did speculate that both wen were perhaps closer friends
with each other than either was with AMLASH. A/l also
etated that both AMLASH and he did not personally care for the
two men (R and IBARRA), but that AMLASH did feel that at ieast
R was a good “action type" and could probably be fitted into
AMLASH's plans at some point. (This was reported also in A/t
Contact Report dated 23 Oct 1962) A/l went on to describe R
aa euch the smarter of the two; IBARRA being not too intelligent.
A/l algo stated that both sen drank quite a bit, turning
into belligerent and talkative drunks, Ile atated that this
over-indulgence, with its resulting belicosity, was undoubtedly
responsible for R'a shooting of the American in a bar brawl
over a tomato in Havana several years ago. According to A/l,
IBARRA is more commonly known as “El; Bianco", after the nawe
of his step-father, Lino Blanco, to whom IBARRA's mother is
now warried.

e. At ca 1630 LMT (New York), on 29 Feb, TRANSANCO
and R returned A/l's call. Iu brief, R stated that he had
gome items to discues with A,/1, but that it was "nothing
fumediate.” He stated that he had written a subsequent letter
to A/l containing nore information and which should arrive
fim New York the next Monday or Tuesday (meaning the 2nd or
3rd of March). R also stated that IDARRA was coming to Paris
the following week (week of 1 March) and should bring with
him additional details. A/l said that he was quite busy at

 

-~2- tae t
. Sacivtet ka8
~ t Peer ad
x cava .
. fy
cae egedgh et aneO wo cee ee chee me Re ene ne har menmennt cnt ene
eg tone RRS :

peor
Es

 
 

 

AetOsTA0tig] . . . nr

vee

 

* SECRET

4 March 1984

eens Ds ee eb wer ated

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT : AMVHIP/1 Meeting, New York City,
28-29 Feb 1964.

1. Meeting Time/Place: ‘AMVHIP/1's office, 32 W.
47th St., New York City, Friday, 28 Feb. and Saturday, 29 Feb.
Accounting below is composite of the two meetings.

wae wae +

 

we er eet

2. Purpose of Meeting. To discuss course of actioa :
AMMUIIP in response to his receipt of word from AMLASH via ;
a letter sent from Paris by Carlos Jorge ROBRENO, eka “El Mago", .

3. Details of Meeting. i
a, On J7 Feb, A/l called the writer via sterile .

phone to say that he had received a letter from ROBRENO (R)
postmarked 25 Feb., Paria, In one paragraph, R stated that he
had been given several “encargos" from AMALSH for A/i to be
“tranemitted personally” (see attached copy of letter). Since
the above information was not mentioned in the clear over the
phone, it was decided that the writer should meet with 4/1 in
order to see the letter personally and to guide A/i in any
subsequent steps. The writer arrived at A/l's office at

oa 1240, 28 Feb.

b. It was A/l's impression that the "encarges”
cited in the letter included things beyond personal requests,
but he was not absolutely certain of this interpretation due
to the brevity of the paragraph. To resolve this expeditiously {
as requested in the letter, it was decided that A/l should call
Paris end talk directly with R, avoiding, of course, any phone
call to the Cuban Embassy there. To achieve thts, it first
was necessary to call Luis FERNANDEZ Ruiz, aka "El Inglats® - ¢t
(5), at GAL-9913) and ask him to get in touch with Luis Enrique ot
TRASANCOS (9), who in turn could pass a message to R asking
him to call A/l in New York, No interest of an ops nature
was revealed here, as the Paris group was told only (and
truthfully) that R had written to A/l in New York and that part
of his letter was unclear in ites meaning, thus A/l wished to
talk directly with R in order to clarify this. (A phone call
was not at all unusual in this case, given A/l'e normally
extensive use of the phone, plus the fact that the letter
indicated some urgency and did not include a return address.)
PERNANDEZ readily agreed to the request even though i¢ was
after 2200 Paris time. A/l waited in his NYC office until

 

. oe py rte set
SEGLET tae 18 REG
pots

“= cra

 

be cg et at ne te 1S ence ee

 

oar ona
 

SECRET

present and preferred to postpone coming to Europe at this
time if it wasn't absolutely necessary, R said that he felt
it could wait at least until IBARRA arrived; then the matter
could be re-considered, R said he could te reached at the
following telephone No. 783-2952, at :east for the next few
days (A/1 fatled to ask for an address or for. the location =
owner - of the phone). R also etated that he planned to
vieit Spain a “little later", but did not disclose to A/l thé”
nature of the trip. The conversation ended with A/l stating
to R that he would be in touch with him later after he had
received the letter from R. He also asked R to let his know
when IBARHA arrived in Paris. . ,

 

£. A/l will contact the writer as soon as he gets
the letter from R and will mail it to the accommodation address
he regulerly uses.

4. Security. The writer left A/l's office for the
last time ca » 29 Feb 1964, No incidents of a security
nature were noted. It ita noted for the record, however,
that A/l has given AMSPORT/1 a temporary job in his firm,
and the writer's presence was observed by AMSPORT during this
series of meetings.

End of Report

 

 

 

   

LL
SAS7 EUS, C70
=e °
a Cea F oC. |
SURE RRP]
Pee AAAS BDA a RSENS 8 Et 5nd A nara ON © eetemniinn Hiteeratapinni! laeyen! pe bay atemeotmentetnane a yanuie amet ==

i

 
