 

 

 

   

 

CONTINUATION OF
ONSPAICH

 

Be

 

   
    
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 

3.

Se

o2

| that she somelines feels Iike a Dr. Jekyll ani Ar. kyde reorting en GLU,

‘Ladies san arcend Holain«i.) However, G.LUB undoubtedly Likes sar  aasoe"
. : 50,
is aleo enjoying the relationait;, since sre is aleo a grevariogs person, €

‘iaturday, 18 July. then she met GLUa be appeared extrenaly dorressei, res

    
   
   

AUR Ral fe Scaingly ind meetings Nalfesertoualy meacrked to Gays tha the
Awericans musth vo actresaly intera wi ina re cet ef a euntiet betwoer an
american eidemt ant a ovist offietal eno & at athe .ust oertainly «9 turning
in such A eo crh. One Pes;cnted that aba ad wvldeim before ane has never
bean lo the Amoriean smassy and duuttful if anyons would ba interested La
trair slate cunversations sinos soe war a youn; ec.volyiri Ges wid
C.stiile that n.inw of Quits rare Wor an accus Lory lone, .nd welr ge
relethunsitr de thi extresly cordial, Qiu fund 1b strange wat [aay had nd
owt dean invited to any awerfean nslasar Sunetiuns of tat she didnt tl cee to
anew Co-tiile letter aa ig was a young, Ame lean inahelor. She Popated again
that ahe hed no desire to so to such rece;ti-as and thet she had oaly ast

Costille onge Lefory socially.

Ke have checied aea(v9 % \S/2 to see if there was any truth to Gli is
alatasert, that V/2 mas making imuirles ovneeriuing tie contact of Anerican
studente with covdete in nelalakt or if G.1.b had sont loned anyu.ing atout
tis at the purty on Tuasday evening wich V/2 also at ended, ¥/2 stated —
Uat he hed dafinttely heard euthing in the kabessy or from OLLE oomseming
this. There is @ posaintlity tlE(@d)5 ies been soon with OULUB ty some
American official, but if tris were tyruz we boiieve that our office wald be
notified as a matter of routine S7{Ag/5 ts cot know by aight by any other
efficer ia the Eatessy besides Costilie aad Kr, wiite, wom she has also -
met once sootal Ly.2¢ Therefore the first conclusion wo can draw from GUILE @ .
apparent Lies to [AKYS is that he fe attempting to alfenate and poison (a/5' 92
sind against the lorica Ratusay, we feal Wiis is alse the reason for his
remarks on the intelligence activities af the entirs Auericsn Eabassy. (a37502:
has jdayed the part of a somevhat naive liberal, antieHeCarthy, exponent of _|-
open diplomacy type person who by her very nstare would abhor any gub-rosa,
beneath the takle dealings. (This da in faet partly true, aa sre hes arated

She now realizes clandestine activities are a mecessery part of forealating
foreign policy, but as she stated, never realized ana sould ever get sized
up in suoh things.) Gilu0 has ondoubtedly recognized this idealistic quailty
and La attempting to exploit it. Tite ajpears to be the first atep ina
reeruitwent pitch.

t¢) 2
We have informed 42/5 that there te no eridencs that any American official
had made inytriss re Soviot/American student conteet and that this is gore
than likely a provocation attempt by GULUA, She hap been instructed to
continua seaing CLUB, as we are extresely interested in Freeelving her
coumente on him ao & personality and elso to find cub what hia sext sove
will be, Sho stated that -iLUB ealls Ler at least twice a week and tuvy
@ither go to a sevie or COLUP coma to ier apirtaent to give her Russian
language Lastructions. lils comet ous been atove mejavach, and be has
Gluays been o perfect gentlama, He hat never made one rosantis overture to.
her.’ (This we fini qiite wwsusl, av COLUB has quite a reputation as a

ani enjoys. her frankness, her oute;oken nature and ber intelligence.
loves to dotate vital issues, ami as she rubs it, "Fis ia my firet eommunist,*

Accther interesting exchange etwwen (i)3eana ALS took place earlier on

she asked him wat the matter was, he stated tat he had had te do somet ing
trat he did not like ard he felt bad mentaily. He told her that he hated
liare add that he fcumd himealf Le the pusiti.s of having to lie at leat
onee a day. (This was just after the order tad been -iven to return the
recen’ escapees back te the Usaa, (teelcr lle) o Los was the joviet
instrumental to their reura and interviewed ie BGALIKK}of fice after
thelr return order had Leen al ofa Nis converastion with than = a in private
tdthout the benefit of (i tni/eP 6 or even a aicroprons.),, G25 did not ask
him wet the setter was, bat in her outspoken aener, said, ethers fore, ‘the
means don't justify the end, uxt you should cull your job.o” isis quickly
Pesionmied that the aea-s definitely did justify tie ond, lie Later revealed
to (A875 that since 1s wifes was gone ba had bom lala a fairly wild ilfe
ard that the preceding weasend he hat hat a fairly debacched tise in the
country 4s tne guest of « Monies fur dealer, He then aned(il75, "You aust
: 24
thins me en/

   

Resta kita!
erty ey

Aa mew
Ame nee eR

 
      
 

10d-40172-10290)

 

oa
ine)

we

FSA

  
   
   

 

 

  

  
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
    
 
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
    
    
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
  
   

  
   
    
 

    

Chief of Statha
pp myc f Obi 8 COD ae aw
Cab ar s/s andiCrl goriy

 

ow $3 TA abe oe ee
=

 
 
 
 

ISPATCH |
tet, st
Chief, EF

  
  
 
 
  

  
 

  

atthe

31 daly 1999

  

  

‘ee G uD? Comtact

CAN BE LUDGED
ATLED RQ OFS ONLY

Zenon nnn _

 

 

of
i, Cm 28 suiy A} ante /s contscted Coati liso inform him of her Latest
conversation with G UB. G..d5 called, (AFYS at her eparteent an Th
Svening, 23 duiys ce had been davies oan he fe givkiRGK/S Kuselan”
languege lessons, At tis tice he tla(AXy$ teat the dverican Rabssey
Senenow had becone amare of har contact with nin. he « Led that he had
heerd this through an Aseriean who in turn beard Lt froM@\VjIC K/2, and a
second menber of the American Emb: asy, Ray bhite, Viee=Consul, GLLLB .
Stited that thace teo officials yere pking the Imuiries on the insth= .
—_ tion of Costille, He then onl 7s ‘Lf ehe had heard anything of this.
“he anid ebeolutely not and she didn’t know how they cou:d have found eut
but added, "I Lave never attempted to conceal ay contect with yo., We
bave been out at the movies and-at rectauraste la telsind tegether and
vee could heve peoaitily been seen by someone. She also etated to COLUB, SHy
7 roounate (a young Finnish girl) knows I am seeing you aince you phone ge
here.* G:LUB o . wiys if she would get in trouble froa thie contract.
She stated no, ths wat eke did was her com personal buainess end of ne
* @vmeern to the American Bobsasy as she was still a froe ond private 97.
eitisen. C ich esnticned t.3t he Bad beard ef the inquiries on(at/Ste
soatect with Soviets at a recepticg he ae Tuesday evening, 21 duly.
This was tno’Gane rece; tion Cestlile and taftC-F/2 attended und was
Feyorted in GF. e GOLUS told her thet/the Americans whom he
mentioned were quite upset that the American Mubright atucents here ware
having so etch social contsct with Soviets. (He vas leo probably ree
ferring also to (An's contact «ith hin). |

2. CCLUH alee contimued to deride the Americans in the Fubasay hers. ile
st.ted that they had a bed reputetion among the Pinne for drinking tio
much, ke sald they couldn't hold their liquor ond referred sreciflcally
to a former US official here by the nowa of tarry KRLAANI who according
to GOLLA had been asked to leaye Pinland because he ringing too auch.
(There ie vo truth to thin statexent.) He also sacda[anys why eho thought
there ware ec meny military people in the Fmbassy, ‘he-eald eke didnte
know but aseueed they vere bere gathering inforsation on Finnish nilitary
Gopabilities, as is the Job of any al:itary attache office abroad. He.
daughed and stated she was neive ard that thay were al) eallecting infor.
wation on the Soviet Union, He alan esid that t:¢ Nebasey here used Finland
as a base for collecting information om the Soviet Union due to its prom
inity. We tld (i275 wat the Pabassy omrloyed over 30 local Pinna stove
main job vas ¢§ help in the collection effort. lle stated he personally
aid not like trie t pe cf underhanded activity and in his eotnion the
BEVD and EUSARK were one art the sane ond both ware evil. She was come-
what otunned br oll these remarks and could not uncerstand why he went
inte tem end brought thea up at this particuler time. He-lee made one
mora reference to Costilie., He previonsly hed mentioned t(Ary'S tet be
had socia’ contact with Costille tut did not feel that Costiile was as
ots in his alscussions pertaining to the revit Union viewnevie the US

O%aaCS7S wmavith uo UL. She pald that tis ie natural since be is an

anarican official tose remark could be constroed as being Ll raliey if
he was-'t earaful, Cio U2 res:ended thet be anterst od this bei Costille

and Le tad become fairly good frionda emi trought Costi le cculd ce a
little scre c.en. 50 arain nade refere:ce to t is on Thersday and plated,
*I aa 6 righer dipiomat than Cooth.ie. I have nothing to leose fren our
eontaet (Celub ard Costhile), end if anyene hea to lecve Finland it will
be costi:le and not ne,*

Je GIMP Ralfeloningly and

 

atm
Ae POUR PRT cae
Ty

Pe. yee

 

 

         

 

te en an oe

ot
14-00000

 

 

ou.
Gink so an axtrewely dmsoral persca.* Gays Puplied that a persons morale
dejemtt on whom bu was with amd that arcunt Ser Gulls seamed to be quite
a weral penser, % Qnswered this by etacing that shea he eas aith ker

he always fal8 "pod",

be weld a-preeiate at Ub &% int deving Hosdcuarters coments as 9.08 08
yoasldie concerning tha(4uys/Ai.? contact and whether you acres that GLLE's
agtions indicate @ pcasible coeruitaen, piteh, ke are act eertain why CCLUB
Bede the statement atout Costille’s faving to Ls Ne Finlast, &f(ai/5 etd
e

pet amu shy he brought tis up citner. lows a8d5 tap etabed she does
not believe that GinB fs aware of her actunl relationship with Costille,

Cootille kee rever been seen nite (Us, ard all contacts have been held in
@erililets apmrimat or car. oz. emonmmmateeae NARA SS 6 PY oy
We are onaloning 4 RS IT oof igh ,

 

Ne
Willies L. Cestille —

ANE PEA COTO
ar Stee
Vv Be NO
wae ty Ne TE

 

 
