   

outside the Washington, D. C. area. Most of the training will ae
be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR revresen- ;
tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the
final assessment and processing of those REDSKIN Agents that :
are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADT" or 06 : :
It should be noted at this point that SR Division plans to
process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time
is, of course,of the essence, in view of the fact that these jo
people will have t- be assessed, security-cleared, briefed, — . i
:
t

and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the sumer
season. ,

D

AEB Sey
4

    

' KUHNKS /avd (2-28-61)
PENDING

 

ees SSD #95018 oo : : _ ‘|

pt cea yee ene n ee

 

pany el :

 
 

(ioetoraeoss] Cran - Y, y
“+ “ a “oe ( 7 . eebhek- “ wot. ( : .

« o.

. 7 : 28 February 1961

‘

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
FRO! :. Chief, 58/2 Desk : *.

SUBJECT: COVER, ~ GENERAL =)
(Proposal for ARE ‘Assessment of Potential .
REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining
cp et to the subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the
oo Record dated 21 February ae

2 teGenced nongesndim, ccG féels ©

g.indicated in th

 

 

 
   

 

that t el. ee copy of SR
_ memorandum-dated3-F: ani “Wemorandem dated 21.
Febrvary 1 61) shoul bel utilized. This decisionws made

‘as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,
Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. dack SOUTHARD, Chief, ccc /ic.

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine
the type of cover organization that should be substituted for

this purpose. After considering the matter at,len| h, it was
ascertained that the Agency has a cleared service in
“40 a could possibly utilized as an initial q
This firm, the 2

 

 

 

 

10

 

  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   

 

provide the needed cover, two OTR psychologists“would be docu-

mented in true name with that firm in ° GCG (Frank

..,. O'MALLEY) will make a trip, to) in tia next few days
to determine whether Miss ig amenable to the proposed
arrangement.dy The two psychologists ‘selected were Doctors
BPADT an ion whom credit checks were recently completed

ofp jth negative results as to Agency employment.

é

 

 

 

as he It was further ascertained at this time that Mr.
Howard OSBORNE desired that all training and assessment of
REDSKIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

et — |

; reer a Lf)
crePET

 

 
