 

 
        

CONTINUATION OF obo oo i
i S-E-C-R-E-T : UFGA-4186.

OISPATCH

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   

2. At 1515 hours on 21 May, the DRE offices in Miami received a
commercial cable in prearranged code indicating the team had arrived

safely in Varadero. Later, at about 31620 hours, a telephone cali

indicated that the team were in safehouses ‘in Havana since parly at +.
morning 21 May. On 22 Mar, a legal traveler, PO
“arrived in Miami and reported to DR ces Yainge this operation.

(Subject of a following disparch. JO) lis the safehouse owner who
eeccived the: team, provided change of ¢ othing, food, shelter, sent
the cable confirming safe arrival and later transported them to Havana.
Subject did not witness, the beach encounter, but heard the. fire-fight
and overheard reports of the encounter during a visit to the Militia -

post the following morning.

 

 

3. The most significant operational factor of this mission.is
that the militia post has reported the incident as an ‘escape” and
has not suspected that an infiltration operation has taken -place,
Therefore, no search or reaadblocks were set up and it can; be assumed
‘that ANHINT safehousing in. that area is Stillvintact. It is also im-
portant to note that: although ‘conjecture at this point, apparently.
_the GOC has net given this clash the propaganda treatment given the
patrol encounter of their ‘CV-28 with the SUSAN. ANN because it. was -
reported as an “escape"-and therefore any casualties inflicted on escappes
would not make sympathetic propaganda. Also, there were reportedly no
militia casualties to give this clash propaganda value,

 

4. . This operation was mounted by orders of AMHINT~53 who was
becoming understandably desperate about DRE internal conditions.
Subject had been scheduled for infiltration three times over the past
three months and cancelled for reasons ranging from misSion reception

- hazards to: reassessment and requirements for further training. This,
coming after a long history of DRE internal support problems and
obstacles,- some of which resulted in costly operational losses and
compremises, prompted AMHINT-53 to mount the infiltration at any cost,
Subject's primary mission is to identify and confirm appointments
within clandestine apparat at national and provincial levels. Opera-
tional losses through arrest and KIA or execution during past four,
months has resulted in almost two complete turnovers in leadership
at national levels. His secondary mission is. to organize the National
Reception Committee for materiel supply and infiltration of paramilitar
instructors, radio operators and intelligence agents. For this purpose
AMHINT-40, who has operated as National Reception Committee Organizer
for’ almost two years, formed the team with ANHINT-53. These preparatiohs
within PBRUMEN should be ready by the time their radio operator,
AMHINT-52, completes his training. :

5. Some of the pertinent operation details follow:

a. The JUANINI is a new, 30-foot, BERTRAM built “Noppy",
recently purchased by the DRE. for their infiltration and supply
operations, They have’ trained their crew and equipped their vessel
with the idea of offering it to JMWAVE in return. for /T communications]
and armament support for their missions. Such x support agreément
has been approved in principle by JMWAVE and details are being worked
out by the Maritime Section, JMWAVE.

b. On this operation, the vessel crew was as-follows:

AMHINT-42, Captain
ANHINT-43, Navigator
AMBOUY~2, vegionl intelligence and guide
Bernabe PENA Ballate, gunner .
Manvel QUISA, gunner

 

ale.
 

‘14-10174-10042)

 

 

2

DISPATCH

t0- : .

Chief, Task Force ¥-

ro)

 

ita

“ACTION WEQUIRED - REFERENCES

 

Action: FYI and files

Ref : A. WAVE 3852 RETURN TA ni, | -
B. WAVE 3911 , ; Backgrat 10 CIA
a Do Not Re Use Only
1. According to AMHINT-42, on 20 May 1962 oe fGut 2200 hours,
local, the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil :(DRE), mounted’ an
operation independent of JMWAVE support, Nello AMHINT-40 and 10
y :

 

AMHINT-53 [at ’Kawama , Varadero Beach ,(2313N-8116W The two-man
team was launched successfully and observed as they moved up the beach
and across a field to a lighted dwelling which is an operational
AMHINT safehouse, However, after the, team were safehoused arid during. |
recovery of the launch dinghy. by the parent craft JUANIN I, a T2-man
militia patrol discovered them and challenged. During the prief fire~
‘ - fight that ensued, the JUANIN I crew reported that two to four militia-
; _ fo men were observed to drop under their fire. (According to reference
B confirmatton of this operation there were no milit‘a casualties, —

and .the local militin post also reported they ‘had d@flicted two to. ||
three casualties “on the escapees.) . The JUANIN I suffered no casualtiep
-or- hits, retired, from the beach a& speeds up to 50 knots and returned

eden :
. | to their base in Key Marathon without, incident.

Distribution:
3. C/TFW

 

(ATE TYPED DATE DKSPATCHED. :
28 May 1962 HAT 3.1 1962

Ross Rertaince 7 a 2 9 Pasaion ania ao ME
UFGA-4186

 

: : : HEADQUARTERS PLE NUMBER
19-120-19/3

“Re

 
74-0000

 

 

Vo SP

_ As he brought the JUANIN into’about 200 yards of the beach;.-the moon
was at about a 25 degree elevation and a fringe of pine shaded most.
‘of the deserted beach area where the team would land. The JUANIN is

 
 

UFGAG4186

CONTINUATION OF
OMPATCH:

|
I
H
a TS

  
   
 
   
    
 
   
  

 

 

c. Vessel armament was procured by DRE and reported as?

ea SMG, N=3, Cal .45 (800 rds ammo)

ea FAR, Belgian, (200 rds) : i
ea Carbine, MIAl Cal .30 (300 rds) -
ea Rifle, Garand M-1] (300 rds)

ea Pistol, Cal .45 (100 rds). -

ea Pistol, 9mm (100 rds).

Da tnt tet

6. According to ANHINT-42 narrative. of the mission, the JUANIN I
departed Marathon base at 1430 hours local on 20 May with Clear weathe;
and about one foot seas. Proceeding on.a course of 186 degrees at abou
17 knots cruising, the JUANIN I arrived at a int approximately 20 :
miles north of their launch: point, 2530N-81154) at about 2630 hours.
In order to reach their point. at 22 hours, and reduce daylight éXposufe
in, the sensitive north coast area, they reduced speed and killed time.
Merchant vessels were observed and avoided since it was feared that
JUANIN position and course might’ be reported. to GOC. ~~

“7. Upon arriving at their launch point, beach conditions were, as’
expected on this day of traditional festivity. The small park known as
‘Parque Infantil Ini", was illuminated and.much of the local populace
wSre dancing in the Pavillion. AMHINT~42 selected a point about 500
yards north of the par and about 500 yards: from their nearest safehousp,.

adark blue camaflouge color aud was apparently not readily visible
from the beach. The team. boarded the ]2-foot, fiberglass dinghy with a
6 hp outboard and accompanied by AMBOUY- 2 and Bernabe PENA for protec-
tive. cover fire, proceeded to the beach, The landing was smooth and
without’. incident but after the team had made their way up the beach,
through the pines and acress the field to the safehouse, a patrol of
about 12 militia came down the beach, .

8. The launch dinghy had just started from the beach when ‘two of |
the militia ran forward and challenged them to stop and return to the
beach, AMBOUY-2 and PENA opened fire at about 40 yards range, cbhserv-
ing. that both militia men dropped to the sand. The patrol then opened
up with:one burst of automatic fire as the dinghy got underway to the”
parent JUANIN, Meanwhile, the JUANIN came in to about 75 yards to
recover the dinghy and retire from the beach. at top speed. During
recovery, the patrol kept up fire from one automatic weapon which was
ineffective and did not score one hit on personnel or craft,

9. Upon return to base, the JUANIN crew were warned by”
AMHINT-42 of security implications and responsibilities of the
operation, i.e. any leak in Miami could result in the compromise of
AMHINT safe housing in that area as. wel] as the death of the infiltrees
There was no contact with ODYOKE agencies upon departure or re-entry

PBPRIBE.'

END OF DISPATCH -
