74-00000

ce tavn’ | @ gentl @
14 August 1968
SUBJECT: GUGAS, Chris

“Subject is identified as a California investigator who administered
a polygraph test to Edgar Eugene BRADLEY who has been charged with conspiracy
py GARRISON.

0G subject was bor}12 August 1921 at Omaha Nebraska. He is a former
{Agency \employee who (BOD) in cearanel 1949 as a\GS-9 Intelligence officer|
_ Subject resigned his staff} atus,in February 1951 and became & staff
(i agent}with Projec {ENPOMORPH in om March 1951 until duly 1952.
(His wife Anne Claudia GUGAS nee SETARO was granted a covert security clearance
in February 195e.for use in a clerical capacity in the Middle East.)

ve
In his assignment with Project (enbomorPH tl agi EE was a&

source of constant embarrassment in his contacts police
officials. He was poastful, indiscreet, lacking in sound judgment, knew
little or nothing in the fields in which he was self-professedly an expert
and was guilty of security breaches in failing to maintain his cover.

& In one incident he made rec endations of police reor anizations to be
made by province governors ig meres in] [tbe Police
Department is a national organization and not subject to the dictates of

the province governors. This caused much 111 will and friction with the
police. .

 

Sub ject professed to be an expert in his kmowledge of the polygraph
machine and claimed he had two years* experience with the Los Angeles
Police Department prior to his employment with the [Agency However, it
was developed that dnstead of this claimed experience, he had actually
spent one or two weeks in a detective school connected with the Los Angeles
Police Department where he received below average grades.

In October 1952 he approached an Agency employee regarding a new
type of tevhnical equipment and this conversation ‘Led to the disclosure
py Subject that he was employed vy the[Agency’ a covert capacity; that
he was teaching lie detection techniques to foreign police departments
without being authorized or competent to do so. Subject was priefed in
December 1952 with stress placed on the importance of living up to his
security responsibilities and exercising utmost precaution in protecting
the covert interests of the [Agency}

In spite of the strong warnings given him in this interview, Subject
again became involved in an incident of official embarrassment to the Agency}

ww

nn eel
OUP t
Encleded (ram auracatl

aT 0
secRel| ee. nice VS

te vegruund (50 Cniy

Pe BE Ce mate ee

     

 

 
we, 6 @~CSEERET SS @®

. In March 1953 he misrepresented himself as a polygraph operator with the
“State Department Secret Police". This misrepresentation was made at a
time when the Department of State was not authorized to have a polygraph
machine and Congressional legislation was pending at the time regarding
such authorization. As & result of this misrepresentation, Bubject was
afforded another security interview in March 1953. He explained that
his cover company sold equipment to foreign countries through the Mutual
Aid Program and supplied consultant services to the State Department but
Subject denied that he ever represented himself as 4 State Department
polygraph operator. After the security interview Subject was also assessed
by an Agency psychologist (March 1953) and was found to be egotistical,
emotionally unstable, possessed of a need to build himself up in the
eyes of others and gave either exaggerated or completely erroneous
information as to his past positions. His intelligence quotient was found
to be comparatively low in relation to those of other|Agenc mpLoyees.

In April 1953 termination of his employment|was recommended

 

(ia
subjeot[rebilined 29 April 1953\"to accept a position in California.
Washington climate is not agreeable to his family."

In April 1964 Mr. J. Kirk BAREFOOT, Director of Security, McKesson
and Robbins, Skokie, Tllinois, informed the Agency he had been a witness
to unauthorized disclosures of classified information made by a group in
a cocktail lounge in Omaha, Nebraska. The individual making the disclosures

@ abot (ENDOMORPH activities abroad under Agency sponsorship was identified

as Leonard HARRELSON. Subject, who was then Director of Public Safety
for thé City of Omaha, Nebraska, was one of the group and it was believed
that he was responsible for supplying the classified information to HARRELSON
about |ENDOMORPA activities.

ye

Zeonard HARRELSON is a private investigator specializing in hypnotism
and the use of the polygraph machine. In 1964 he was employed by the Keeler
Polygraph Company in Chicago, Jilinois. In 1954 HARRELSON was in partnership
with Lloyd Be FURR in a private detective agency known as the American
Bureau of Investigation, Tower Building, Washington, D. C. Lloyd B. FURR
is the polygraph operator who gave 4 lie detector test to Gordon NOVEL,
hostile witness subpoenaed by GARRISON. The test received newspaper publicity
as being given at "McLean, Va." in March 1967. (Summary on FURR atteched).

HARRELSON in believed to be @ person of poor morals. He was given
a medical discharge from the Army as 8 psychoneurotic in 1949 ond had been
court-martinled twice for impersonating, non-commissioned officers of 4
4 rank higher thea he: posnensed. Tn his business partnership with FURR,
HARRELSON would misrepre: ent himself as being with the FUI by covering the
word “American” when presenting his credentials and just showing “Bureau
of Investigation". .

y Incidentally, the informant, J. Kirk BAREFOOT mentioned above, was
, . disapproved for Agency employment in 1951 because of falsification of his PHS,
@ and questionable maturity, judgment, discretion and honesty.

 

SEERET G
