74-0000

 

 

 

 

GONFIDENTIL-

-- 6 ~~

Agency's role in the investigation conducted by the Warren Com-

mission. The so-called “Oswald File" now fills 57 volumes comprising

some 142 file folders and portfolios. In addition, the Staff has

accumulated some 50 supplemental files including the master copy

of those documents released under provisions of the FOIA to the public
in March 1976 (first series) and those documents (second series)
released in September 1976 and March 1977.

10. By necessity the documents in the file are held in chrono-
logical order; however, the file has become much more than just a
chronological file on Lee Harvey Oswald. It has now become the
Agency's central repository for information and documentation that
it holds on: )

a. The life of Harvey Oswald;

b. The Agency's role in the investigation conducted
by the Warren Commission, 1963--1964; -

c. The testimony by various Agency officers before

‘the several commissions and committees set up to review

the validity of previous investigations. (NB: It should

be pointed out that this portion of this file is not

complete); and

d. The point of record for Agency action taken in
response to requests submitted to the Agency under pro-

visions of the Freedom of Information Act.

GONFIBENTIAL —
74-0000

-- 7 =

11. In order to come to grips with the voluminous material in

 

. the Oswald files, it soon became obvious that, in order to be in
a position to respond effectively and expeditiously to the Terms of
Reference and to allegations and accusations in Book V of the SSC
Final Report, it would be necessary to copy much of the file and to

place these copies in folders set up according to general and specific

 

subjects. In order to check charges that this Agency had withheld
information from the FBI and the Warren Commission, and that there
was "no evidence that the FBI asked the Agency to conduct an investi-
gation or gather information," the following files were set up:

a. Correspondence from the Warren Commission;
am b. Correspondence from the Agency to the Warren
Commission;

c. Agency disseminations to the Intelligence Community,
particularly the FBI; .

d. Correspondence from the FBI to the Agency requesting

 

assistance and information;
e. Chronological summary of information on and actions
taken relating to Silvia Tirado de DURAN; and
f. Chronological summary of information on and actions
taken relating to Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.
These files provided a basis for checking statements included in the

SSC Final Report and to determine what the Agency actually did do

 

in relation to the Warren Commission inquiry.

—CONFBENTAL
 

 

 

 

SONRETA—

-- 5 --

the gist of the document(s) for purpose of easy and quick

reference. These memoranda, with a copy of the document(s)

attached, are filed in alphabetical order, by project and
subject, in hard-back green folders as part of the official

LA Division research group files under the official classi-

fication number 019-604-001 (Volumes XI through XX). Also

included in the records are two folders (Volumes IX and X)

containing 1,439 draft memoranda with negative findings.

These records are restricted in LA Division.

7. The LA Division research effort proved to be far more
comp1ex than originally estimated. Research continued to lead to new
files, and the requirements for meticulous analysis and correlation
of material further extended the time required to complete the under-
taking. By completing this exhaustive review of files the Agency
can speak with considerable confidence as to what the records of
Cuban operations show, so far as they relate to the question of the
death of President Kennedy. -

8. Cl Staff: CI Staff assigned one senior officer to review
its files on Lee Harvey Oswald, working under the general Terms of
Reference referred to above, and also to generate papers on points
not covered by the guidelines but pertinent to the general subject.

9. Since December 1963, the CI Staff has served as the point

of record for all questions relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the

S6NFENTAE
14-00000

 

 

 

 

a 4-7

brought to its attention by the IG Staff, on an ad hoc basis,
and to additional questions raised in the course of the .
study. A name trace was always run, and/or the 201-file was
reviewed, if available, on any individual allegedly involved
in an assassination plot against President Kennedy or Fidel
Castro. This task was made somewhat easier as the result of
a memorandum prepared by the Cuba Desk, in August 1975,
based on traces of the names in the so-called Black Book
that Fidel Castro passed to Senator McGovern, which dealt
with individuals the Cubans alleged were involved in assassi-
nation attempts against Castro.
c. Findings and Organization of the Findings

Each researcher submitted a draft paper noting the
subject of the folder(s) reviewed, a brief description of the
activity. and a copy of those document(s) or findings which
contained information believed to be pertinent to the review.
Also included were job numbers, official file numbers, _
inclusive dates of material researched, and the number of
volumes reviewed. Beginning in January 1977, at the request
of the IG Staff, the researchers also began noting FBI and/or
other government agencies knowledge of information, to the
extent recorded in Agency files. Separate finished memoranda
were prepared, on the basis of these data, including the
heading Findings. This heading lists the specific document

number(s} and other pertinent data, and a few lines providing
74-0000

 

 

 

 

t

"GONFIRENTIAL-
-- 2 --
President Kennedy. A copy of the Terms of Reference is attached.

3. The two main holdings of files for the period in question
were in LA Division and Cl Staff, of the Directorate of Operations,
with less voluminous files being held in the Office of Security. and
the Office of the Inspector General. The organization for the review
of those files is described below.

4. LA Division: LA Division was the repository of the files
for Agency operations conducted against Cuba. These files were known
to be extensive. Under the Terms of Reference those files for the
period 1 January 1961 to 1 January 1965 were selected for review,
covering a three-year period prior to the death of President Kennedy
and the following year. A research group was formed composed of
five full-time researchers, a group leader and a task force supervisor.
An additional four researchers participated in different phases of
the research, which continued to mid-May 1977.

5. Reference to material for this research was obtained from
the LA Division registry, the Cuba Desk machine runs, and a special
comprehensive file listing prepared for this purpose by Information
Services Staff (18S). On the basis of this it was originally believed
that material pertinent to the search would number approximately 900
operational folders, plus numerous related 201-files. It was later
determined, however, that a thorough review should include additional
operational and subject files which brought the total to well over

two thousand files. In view of the date of the material, much of it, -

CONFIDENTIAL —
 

 

  

CONFIDENTIAL

-- 3 -- ff

    
    

t Virginia. The remainder is held at Headquarters in the |

files or archival material of Information Processing Group. This

 

|
both operational and subject, had been retired to Archives at :

      
  

material is easily retrievable through the use of specific job

 
    

LA Division research group files (too numerous to cite herein).

    
 

 

6. Following is a breakdown of the types and numbers of files

 

  
 

reviewed, criteria employed in the research, the findings, and

   

organization of the material:

     

a. Types and Number of Files Reviewed

(1) Operational 1,729
(601 with findings and 1,128
with no findings)

   

numbers and file reference numbers recorded and retained in the
|

      
    

(2) Subject Files 547 i
(186 with findings and 361 , i
with no findings)

    
   
 

(3) Cuba Policy Files 101

(4) Chief, WH Division Chrono Files
(Task Force W Chronos) 37

      

  

(5) Official 201 Dossiers - _100-plus
Total 2,514

    
  
 

   

b. Criteria Used in the Research

 

As a guide the research group followed the Terms of

     
 

Reference referred to above. In addition to the Terms of

  
 

Reference, the group remained alert to other items of interest

CONFIDENTIAL

  
 

 

 

 

 

Table of Contents <

Summary of Findings
Tab A. Organization for and Conduct of the Review
Tab B. CIA Performance on the Inquiries
Tab C. CIA Operations Against Cuba :
Tab D. AMLASH Operation
Tab E. Materials Forwarded to Warren Commission and FBI
Tab F. Mexico City Coverage of Oswald Visit

Tab G. Selected Newspaper Stories with Comments

 
[td t0108-10350 7m

 

Comments on Book V, SSC Final Report,

The Investigation of the Assassination
of President Kennedy: Performance of
the Intelligence Agencies
 

" ORGANIZATION FOR AND CONDUCT OF REVIEW

 

  

t

 
Organization for and Conduct of the Review

 

. 1. Many years have passed since the inquiry by the Warren Com-
mission. The persons who were most familiar with the activities
of the Agency during the period preceding the death of President
Kennedy, and during the investigation of the Warren Commission, are
no longer in place in the same work. Some-of the employees have

retired or have been transferred to other work. Some have died.

 

 

2. To respond to the questions raised in Book V of the SSC
Final Report, it was necessary to review old files and to assign to
this undertaking personnel not really familiar with the activities
of the Agency during a period of a dozen or more years before. A
study group was established to consider the size of the problem and
to develop a plan for conducting the review. Chaired by a repre-
sentative from the Office of the Inspector General, the group also
consisted of members from CI Staff, LA Division, and the Office of

Security. Terms of Reference for the review were agreed upon in

 

early August 1976. Points emphasized for the review, because of the
thrust of Book V of the SSC Final Report, were (1) to conduct a full
review of information and operations on the Cuban target to identify

any activity that might relate to the assassination of President Kennedy,
and (2) to review the possibility that CIA activities against Cuba

did, by their nature, cause Castro to order the assassination of

 

CONFIBENTIAL~

vane
