74-0800

   
    

(3)
(6)

 
  
 

a arreat cf Qednei Gonrslez, tre paticoa)
almost ali the mambers in the province: songh
is trying to rucrganize tho movement. There ae still. .
on, coming fran the 26 of sly Mvemant, but they have

re-vstsblinh contacts.
Rescater Keccate has no aenbers: in this ares.

DRE. Peon) DS was carpletely broken by tha’ wiguces se ‘uprising. of Mlberto Muller ;

and by the arrest io October of "31 Plera®, provincial ¢o-ordinater. The DRE

still bss great prestige in the area, ani thers are rary who would folloar its
directions : .
b. Northern Ortunte Province

een .

; ia northern Crienta Province,

(1) Mu. the MRR Ls practically ron-cexistert
with the axce;tion of a few persons] contacts af Hino Diase

(2) MOC. Tho 100 is poorly organized and inactive.
9) 30 de Noviexbro. It has a mediocre organization,fsw mabers, ani is
inactive.

a) oe, Even before the debacle of Cetobar the MRP had a ‘very ,cor
Creanization in this area. Fito dome: ("Ricardo"), ths eoventinator,
was arrested in the rounlup at that tine, but escapad ant took asylum
in the Ecusiorwan.Eabassy. His successor aod the allitary an! civilian

personne] ure relatively capabls.
(5S) Beseate. qt does not oxist in this ares.

(8) DXE. It dows not axcist in this area,

 

Ce Ganagony Proviwe +

(1) MRR. .At the beginning af April 1961 Caballero (fru), the ewan: tory
‘whoge nichuaww is "51 Vielot, was arrestel ant condemned to 30 years
on tho Isle cf Pines. Arango (fm), who wes named nomontinat:s in '
Augutt, has been forced to seek asylin in Hatand. The morasuot has
been destreyud. :

(2) Mee The MOC has an ewallent comoriinatur, Blanco (fra}, whe Ls
responsible, discreet, with good comnectians. The MC has 4 very gad
eivilian ‘orjanizahion aniat present is concerned abowt ite nilitary
‘oryanization, for which thay already have sce personnel. They work
effectivaly and are trying. to carry cut sore military actions.

_The civilian organization is relatively goul. It has
atdra military force.:

 

G) 304 kovie
aosymall but effec

ee,
Gy raqnuey {3 nvactisally ths oy province in whlch the MAP was net
Aarfertad by tho arsests of October, It has a good civilian coganizsstion
- and riliturr forces of ixputance, “ash are under the cama! of former
officers of the Rebel Arty. Arquiniides Caballero ("Esteban"), its
fnner co-ordinator, took asylum in the Srazilian Estassy; *Ricanio®,
his replacent, is very yourg (21 years 014) but is cansiderei very good.

(5) Res-ate. it has a poor organizetion, There are engugh nex, but they
aca inactive. .

(6) DS. -¥ow natbers of the DRS remain, and “Tronco* ani fafa’ Ancol Quevedc,
: itg directors, are mown by G2. Ths rovumert has been destocyed. -

 

 
  

 

 

 

SBCRET
NOFOSNACNTINTED CONTROL
 

104-10192-10269

 

     
   
 
 
 

ae ere

CENTRAL INTELLIC

  

mareial qmtalne infoenat! ring of the Mae
een uTeuitt red perayt ie prone

DAC fem 192 abd TM, tr

 

 

 

 

 

 

COUNTRY Cuba ~ . serdar NO. CS 3 /509,953

SuBsECT «=—- Status of the Anti<astre Moverent OATE CAST, 29 March 1962

In Cuba, December 1961
HO, PAGES 6 an

REFERENCES RD ~Wa2107

OATE OF °
INFO. 20 December 1961

PLACE & = Argentina, Svonos Airss (18 January 1962)
FIELO REPORT NO.

DATE ACQ, .
FHIS $3 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRaDinGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF COMTENT 1S TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: = An Zt
Appratsal of Content: °

1. Antiastro activities in Cuba incliwie those af tho nation-~ride organized
moverents am! thoye ef leeal fronts where indepentent guerrillas are grouped
in small units. The penetration of the Cuban armed forces is insignificant.

 

 

2. The national movements which have been active in Cuba are the Kovinlonto de

Recuperacion Revoluctonaria (Mii), Movimiento Mancerata Cristiano (0C),
Koviniento Sevolucionario del

Movimiento Revolucionario 30 de liovienbre,
Pueblo (MPP) Rescate Revulucionario, and Bimeterd 4o RovolucilonarLlo
Eatixiiantil (DHE). Cthar groups with limited organizations ara the Unidad
Revolucionaria and the As (tavc laren da Aadigos ‘da aurolisno Sanchez
Arango). The strength of the groups by province is -as: follows:

4. Southern Grlente Province (Santdago ds ‘Qeba) | :

(1) MRR. ‘The MRR, of Nino Diaz, has members from the ranks of the
26 of July Movement and, especially, from the former regular Arny.
Tts civilian organization is poor, almost non-existent. The men
remain inactive, waiting for a serious military action of a local

or national character, .

(2) MOC. The *OC has an adequate civilian orzanization; from the
founding of the novonent Santing? ds Cuba has beon one of its
strongholds. Vhe military organization fs extrenely poor. Many
of its leaders have cone into exile cr are trying to do so,

They remsin totally imictive in hope of an invasion which will resolve
the situation, and only concern themselves about a future political
life, at the tine when the present government falls,

There are few members of the 30 de Noviembre in

G) 30 de Novierbdre.
with their national leaders.

Santiago de Cuba, and they lack contact
They have practically no resources.

SHCNB-T :
cri shorn CONTROL ’ :

Loic We. SC Far yz
_. SNS, x

eae : a |] EABA-LOL
_ 2 oe
BLS. cs-3 3
Pag 1 Tears ; oo
i ieee

TAs T men VATA VI ieteon

 
  
 
   
  

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
 

Ms

f.

Be

be

‘peed ere ular careful watch, anil the pers

 

 
 

Set

norean/ocuti

sede : C3356 5853

Las Villas frevince. It is estimate that no mowenant has an effective

organization, in tio province. A fow ren in each mcrement aaintain this
fiction of the existence of thoir organizations. :

‘Yatamas Prerince. This province hes been used by the noveuonts ‘ane

route for the entrance ani exit of sen and military equirment, The points
h onnel acing this work has been
recucei to rething. The MIR, MOC, MRP, and, to a lesser extent, the

30 de Koviedre have civilian organizations with little or no effectivensss.«
Habana Frovince. Provincial organizations practically do not exist, since
provincial wrk is absorbed by the national comulttees af the movements, all

of which are in the City of abana. ‘the man of the first, socond, and even

third rank av, in almost all cases, either prisowars, in asylun,ar in exiles
Those who survive have succeeded because of the co-operation af those who:

-although'net members of the movement, are opposéd to the goverment.
“Pinar del Rie Province. It is estimated that no-argasisad movewsnts exist .

in Pinar del Rio.

Hational directorates. ;
(1) MER. "Ssteban*, its present co-crdinator, 4s very yong (23 years old),
emt lacks the necessary capability. Although he is couragecug and
neroes, ha becanes lost in small details, The group which makes ap
the naticnal conzittes 19 ineffoctive, since this novmont was largely
destroyed after 17 April 1961. :

 

(2) MOG. The #O is directed by politicans, little qualified for a clandestine
fight which doay not interest then. Alberto del Jimoo, a man af action
who succeed the Lieffictat Pepin Fernandez ("Lncas?), had to take acylum
in ths Argentina Embassy. ~ . : .

(3) 20 de Nerienbre, Fedre Forcads (*Villareal*), the proaont co-crdinator,
ds the foomer secretary-gonoral af tha FPederscion do Geros Quinicos
fnd Nas gvod contacts in the Lobor field. Ke knows hos to work, but —
hia attachmant to women makes him forget his responsibilities frequently.
In Kovesber this movenent. was the victim of a daminelation which
resultal in the errest of over hO members. The consequences of the
demmciation are not known. It was attributed by acne to Jose Reyes,
Habana provincial financial secretary, and by otters to. an engincer who
used to work on the national committees.
(4) MRP, Tho arrest of Reinol Gonzalez has left the MiP reduced to alacat
Tpothing. ‘ational leaders held by G-2 are: Reinoi Gonzalez (*antonto"),
Fernaco-de Rojas ("Pablo*) cc-ordinator of Habanas Renterta (fnu)
("iene"), co-ordinator of ‘Matanzas; Hery Martines -*¥rsncisco*, labor
co-ordinator; Roberto Jimenez (*Podro"), national stwient co-ordinators
and, in addition, 60 to 90 others were arrested. Those who took
asylza acer Javier Chacon ("Zaul"), cocordinater af Santiago da Cuba,
end Arquimedes Caballero ("estoban? 5, cowortinater of Camagusy, in the
Brasiltan Exbassy; Ratael GQcmes (#picardo®), co-ordinator of Holguin,
and Jesus Rodrignes ("Gomes"), co-ordinator of Las Villas, in tae
Ecuadorean Embassy; Francisco Leon (3Pordanc"), gucoessar to Beisol
Gonzals:, and Manuel Castro ("Yeyo*), chief of military operations,
in the Argentine Enpassy; ‘Agustin’, national firane officer, in the .
Papananian Embassy; Dr« Orizondo (fnu) 221 Dooter), who was in charge —
_of contacts with professional cia’ses, in the Colorbian Embasay. A
person imcwn by the. nicknuns Shiche® has been designated new national
co-ordinator and is urcbably the most capable of thooe remaining. It is
baliered that in most cases he can regain co per cent of tha norenent 's
provicus affectiveness

S-E-< -RE-T
NOPORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
 

2)

@)

  

. Ley Villas
“q)

Correlillo Front. Canpitcs, ant TonDiki ars the two. leaders who have
become well known tn this sone. Canpitos ia no longer nontioued ,
although he still cperstes Li ths arsa, remaining hidden with sake
20 peorly-armad men. Ton<kt pained fane ‘in the province ‘as: the
result of Killing sone trizatistas amt militiamen. About the middle
of Decesbor 1962 it was "SEs that he had been captured.2 ;

 

North Front (Yagvajer). For sae months there hare been grows which

vary betwedn 40 ant 100 mea,.the total ‘for: the whole rote. Thefw seas
to be enough food to mipply 200 men, In tha ‘last weeks (early Decender
1961) they have carried ozt sane activities such as the brief captors
af the towns of Menases ani General Carrillo, acts: which resulted in -

' the arrest of a great mmber af-ciyilians not connected with the’

uprising. Doctor drnanio Delgaio, who served as the contact with the
insurgents and was in charce of supplies, has taken asylum in the .
Eouslorean Erbassy. His seconi-in-camand, Jimenaz (fm), was arrested.

Escambray Pront. The three best-known leaders of this front are

Osvalio Ramirez, Congo Pacheco, and Pancho Villa. There 1s no discipline
among the groups, ani the frout is vary disorganized, It is estimated -
that the mumber of insurgents does not arceed 300, lacking arms and .
having little food. Rantire:' rerutation among the lower class is good

- but not 90 among anti—Castro leaders becawes af his notorious criminality.3

The centera of supply cf fcol ant mmitions, such as Placetas, Sanstd

Spiritus, Trinidad, Santa Clara, Clenfusgos, and Manicaragua, have suffpred
many arrests.

It is prodadle that this front will not grow because af
the’ Inck of organization af the cational anti-Castro movenenty in
1a3 Villas Province. . a

criente Province, Sierra Maestra Front, . “Willian”, former chief of. action
of the 30 de Noviembre, rose in rebellicn about mid-1961 with a group of

“50 men. in the Niquero zone.

With the ald of different novemsnta organized

in Manzanillo, the help af 50 militiazen ant 25 or JO rebel solilers, and
the co-operation of a leader of the. MRP whoca name is wuman, be succeeded
in miting 200 men.’ Their Jack of amas made possible tha capture af 4

.

50 of them in August, and *s
About 100 men remain at -presest,

illian*, whe was among thom, was execated
They have same arms bat are inactive.

Penetration of Military Units cf the Cuban dovermnent.

ae

Ce

Navy. Among tha officers only a few have been. conspiring ard’ those have '

“been retired froa active service and nazed ag: adninistretora of co-operatives.

Tre penctration 1s more effective at 3aha naval posts, throush which

oquiprent can enter.

Given the little inportance cf the Havy and tha -

liuited paretration within it, ft ds net balleved that the Navy would play
an important part in any national arti<Castro militery operation.

Pobel ray. The lack of a serious

of the anti-Castro leaders who have

   

made contact with the offficers of the Rebel + y has prevented penetration of
the Army from being a significact pars of the anti-Castro otraggls. IE is
estimated thet 79 par cent of taes afficers on active ditzy who fought in the

hilis during the struggle agai
but those officers’ now lack ef fe
Taere have been same cases af od ficers provid
has happened only sporadically.

Ratista are now oppossd Lo the’ government, °
Te contrel «nd will not again have it.
ing arms and mmnitions, but it:

t

 
  

 

Police. Dissatisfaction aang the police can ba considered of wintasl |
importance because of the presence of militiamen in police stations and the

assurption of police functions by the militias. ‘ :
‘ranking members of the police farce are against tho regire, their supervisors

Although saxe of the lowr-

are Coorunists,

SECRS-T
NOPORN/CONTI ASD CONTROL

 
