14-00000

  

 

file on CGNALD and pass them to usa, end the FRE gave us a copy of the
Soviet Consular Pile on OSWALD which had been publicly given by the Soviet
Ambassador to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 Decesbar 1963, Deputy
Attorney General Natzenbach invited us to review the FBI's comprehensive

report on the case to make sue owe sources were not jeopardized and that

our information was correctly quoted. We found the resort highly

interesting ana ne threat to our security, as long as it ves read only

wy the outhérized investigative vodtes. |
After the first fev days, the CLA investigation of the case vas

handled at Headquarters by a small staff wuslly charsed with investigation

. and snalyais ef the most important security cases, and by a few officers

and analysts of our Vestern Hemisphere Division.

Reports From Mexico
_ AS soon as om Mexico Clty Station realized that Lee OSUALD was the:
prime suspect, 1t began re-sereening all the written telephone transcripts _

in its files covering the Soviet Bubassy for the pertinent period. ‘The

"_aetual tapes were also reviewed, but many of them baa been erased after the

 
14-00000

 

normal two weeks wait. Several calls believed to Involve OSWALD were
Giscovered and their contents cabled to Washington, where they were
dissenirated to the White House, the State Department, the Federal
Bureau of Inveatigation. |

CSHALD's name ves not actually mentioned in these aidttionen calls;
but pinllarity of speech ana various plain pointa of content Link then
te hins These calls are swazarized below in chronological order.
They cover the perloa from 27 ceptesiver 1963 to 3 October 1963, the vhole
span of OSWALD's visit to Mexico city as later learned froa travel records.

27 Segtenber - A man phones the Soviet Military Attache snd

says he needs a visa to go to Odessa. Man gusvering saya he shold call.

15-60-55 and ask for the Consul. Caller asks for the address, ana it is.

given to him. (There is no special reason for Linking this call to OSWALD.)

2] September, h205 PM ~ The Cuban Consulate phoned the Soviet |
Conswlate. Silvia Duran, Meciean national clerk of the Cubsa Consulate

talked to a Soviet official, saying that a mile American citizen wes at the

"Cuban Cousulate asking for 4 transit visa to pass through Cuba on his vay

   

 

 
14-00000

 

 

our overseas stations, and many pleces of Information on OSWALD and bis
wife had been received back. ‘The Mexico City Station researched its
telephone tape very thoroughly and came up with several more conversations
probably involving OSWALD, but not actually mentioning this nase; these -
connected him also to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico Clty. Several extoana
were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a good pleture
or vhat he was really up to. Many conferences were held with the Fal
Jetson officer uke asked us for certain actions and passed us information

from the FBI investigation. Om the minus side, a host of fabricaters,

Bone anonymous, bombarded overseas cubassies with spurious tips on the case,

- most of which we investigated. ALL of these are soon discredited, but they

are still coaing ine
‘During this phase of our work, we served primarily in support of the
Fal, which was entrusted by the President with tha major responsibility for

the investigation. The FAI was too busy to supply us with ouch of its

am invoreation, but answers were given to specific questions we posed to

assist our investigation. The Department of State dda photograph its entire

>

 

 
14-00000

 

aS the possible essausin and asking for tracea. ‘The nessace wae passed
on at once by the Chief CI, Mo. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Hesl of his
Special Trvestigations Unit. Mys. Batty Bgeter of this Unit immediately
recognised the name of Lee OSWALD and went for his file. At the sane
tine, Mea. Bustos of the Mexico Desk, who head written our firat fepert on :
OSHALD om 10 October recownized the ene froa valle reports and vent |
after the same file. Mr, Reichhardt, Mexico Desk Chief, who ves howe on
leave, heard the news and phoned in a reninder that ve bad sonething on

OSWALD. While we were preparing a cable to Mexico City asking them for i

nore information on OSVALD, Mexico City itself heard OSWALD's name on the
Yotce of Averteca broadcast and cabled to us a reminder of the inforaatton
the Station bad sent in on hin, | . “ _ a
‘For the next veek, a dozen people in the Agency were continuously

envaseaé in handling Incoming messages on the case, writing reports to be

cabled out, tracing the names mentioned, and researching flies. WEE thin a

week, 27 cabled reports haa gone out to the White Douse, the State Depart-
. ment, and the FBI. Many cables of guidance and inquiry hea been sent to

*

 

 
14-00000

  

“edtizen to other vovermment agencies. Derezatory information on Americans

 

Rubassy was not CSWALD anyway. As chunce would have it, none of our

several photo obsesation points in Mexico City had ever taken an tdenti-
flable picture of Lee OSWALD. | |

; our Hexilce city Station very often produces information like this
on US citizens centacting Soviet bloc embassies in Mexico City. Frequently

i
!
. |
. . i
the information ve get is extresely incriminating, and on one or tye |
'
ocensions we have even been able to epyrebend and return to the ISA .
American military personnel who are attempting to defect. In all such LE

Cases, our Zeadquarters desk requests and obtains the special permission of.

the Deputy Director for Plans to pass the derogatory information on a US

 

ts not treated routinely; tn each case the DBP or his Assistant personally
scrutinize the snfornation make sure it 1s credible, end decide whether and
to whom it will be pasped. Only in absolute emergencies t the Hexteo City
Station authorized to pase such information directly to the EBE office in
the U.S. Embassy, ms - oe

“> At this writing (13 December 1963) ve do not know what action the FSI

 
14-00000

  

 

and other agencies may have taken based on cur report. We surmise that the
PDI may have made local, checks throush Mexican eutherities to see if

Lee OSsALD waa actually in Mexico City on 1 October. Indeed, later in-
vestigation has confirmed ali. the details of his trip, where he stayed,
and what he did. To avola crossing lines with the FBI, om Mexkeo Station
unierteck no Local Snvestigation of its own. As ve now know, OswaLa leth

Mexico on 3 Octeber and was no longer there when our report was prt out. .

 

 

 

 

 

22 Novecber 1963 :
Wren word of the shooting of President Keanedy reached the offices
of our operating Givisions and staffs on the afternoon of Friday 22 Hoven-

bee 1963, transistor redios vere turned on everywhere to follow the

tragedy. When the name of Lee OSWALD was heard, the effect was electric.

by

_ A phone message frem the FRI came at about the same time, naming OSHALD

 

 
14-00000

 

We Discover Lee OSWALD in Mexdeo City

CIA aid produce one very Significant plece of information on Lee
OSMALD vefore he shot President Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our Mexico
city Station intercepted a telephone call Lea OSWALD made from sowevlace
jn Mexteo Clty to the Soviet Eubassy there, using his own rawe. Speeking
broken Russian and using bia true name, CONALD was talking to the Eubassy
eu ; . covensor, who often answers the phone. OSWALD said he bad visttes

tne Eubassy the previons Saturday (28 ceptember 1963) and spoken to a

‘gonsul vaese name he he@ forgotten, and who bad promised to send a tele-

. >

Sraa for hin to Washington. He wanted to know 1f there vere "anything |

new.” The guard said if the consul was dark it was (Valeriy Viaadsirovich)
KOSTIXOY. The guard checked with someone eles and said that the resseze
had gone out but no ansver bad been received. He then hung op.

This piece of inforsation vas produced from a telephone tap center.

 

 

 

 

 
104-10052-10119

 

io “GNCLASSIFIED © [7] INTERNAL C] CONFIDENTIAL ;  [[] SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET —

‘{ SUBJECT: (Optional)

EXTENSION
5613

Mig) eT Senfonetion, room number, OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to show from whom

building)

. vot Nt
we cal ae FORWARDED INITIALS | to whom, _ Drow o @ line eeross column clter each —
ve oO. a . “|

‘2 | oluding sumarvles ef.the telepnona, rm
sateoven tte ‘Tole my be useful tof ¢
your snelysts who ara preceseing «}

the vest of the material ana te the! ©

pe
i

 

 

 

 

Y ji 0 use” ee

 
14-00000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eenter produces great

 

masses of telephone intercepts which are transeribed and reviewed by cur
small staff in Mexico City. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone couversa-
tion wf 1 Cctober had been transcribed and a summary of 3% cabled to
Washington. The mame Lee CSYALD meant nothing special. to our Mexics
City Station, but in their report they dia judge him to be on American
wale. | |

The cabled report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked

in our files, where it was immediately noted that the Lee OSWALD pboning ,

the Soviet Evbassy in Mexico City was probably the Lee OSWALD who had

defected to the Soviet Unton in 1959 and returned to the USA in 1962. on
10 October 1963, the day after the report frou Mexico City, CIA Headquarters
sent owt a cabled report: about Lee OSUALD's phone call to the Soviet ——

Embassy; the report vent to tha FSI, the Department of State (because

OSHALD was a US citizen), ana to the Havy Departuent (because he wan a

SECRET er

 
14-00000

 

  

 

Likliheod that the Lee OSWALD mentioned was probably the former defector.
A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand to the Imaisration ana
Naturalization Service, with which we have no cable Link. Tha sane aay

a long cable vent out to Mexico City informing our Station of the back=-—
ground of defector Lee OSWALD and asking for nore information. Our Station
vas instructed to wavs ite information on the phone call to the Mextco
City offines of the FBI, the Enbassy, the Naval Attache, ani the Inatora:
tion ant fetuyaltzation Service. ‘This was done.

In ite original report of 9 October, Mexico City head said it haa a

photosraph of an apparent American male leaving the Soviet Embassy on

- 2 October 1963, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

In Mexico City provides ns with secretly takea photographs of many but not .
ant visitors to the Soviet Exbassy there, taken with telezhoto Lenses. |
Accordingly, ve cabled the Ravy Department on 2h October 1963 asking for
® photoxraph of Yes OSHALD fron hte Mario Corps days 20 we coula compare

photos. We hed not received this photograph by 22 Novenber 1963, but in

any event, 1t turned cut that the man photographed outside the Soviet

e

3

 

 
