 

, = GATURNTO OS
\ Background Use Galy
: (Do Not Repreducs

 

attended school until 1933. She was married to a Peéro MarzAl «
wholesale pharmaceutical supplier and Spanish national from Noveuber
1939 to December 19h0. In February 19:1, Mar2Al married a younger
sister of Subject's wife, Gladys. At one tine during World War IT,
MarzAl was included on American and British proclaired lists as a
Nazi. sympathizer and in May 19h was jailed by Costan Rican authoritias
en chargss of adultering drug products. He left Costa Rica in 196
with Subject's sister-in-law. The field reported in August 1959 that
Pedro & Gladys MarzAl have been residing in Spain.
; brcate base fasdtt Dress tactonal

After her divorceyin Decembar 190, Subject's wife worked in local
eantinas in San Jose, Costa Rica until Nay 192 when she went to Panama.
She workded at three different post exchanges in-the Panama Canal Zone
until October 193. She then worked at various cantinas in Colon, Panama
as a cashier and bartender until Subject returned to Panama to marry
her in 1945. In 19hh, Army Intelligence ran an extensive investigation
on her after it was alleged that she was sympathetic to Germany and was
attempting to elicit information from servicemen across the bar. The
allegation was proven baseless although it was developed that she could
speak and rstand German, thought German men would make fine husbands
and dislikedmost American men bacause of their immorality. For a period
of a several months during 19-195 Subject's wife and a younger sistar

were part of a dance troupe composed of abtateless Russian, his stateless Rossraxt

wife and themselves. Since her marriage toe Subject, her interests have been
primarily domestic. She completed a beautician's course in Havana, Cuba,
1957-1958 and has worked as a beautician in Mexico City to the present.

With regard to the siblings of Subject's wife, a report of ths
Military Attache, American Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica made in November :
19h characterized one of Subject's brothers~in-law, Antonia, as being ‘
@ sex pervert and torphine addict. He was reported by the field in
August 1959 to have been jailed on a robbery charge. Another brotherin~
Law, Mario, may have been a member of the Communist Party of Costa Rica.

He is presently self-employed as a-shoemaker and living in a houss owned
by Subject and his wife in suburban San Jose, Costa Rica. Mario had

been a staunch supporter of the Calderon party in power in Costa Rico,
19hh-19)8 which comprised a coflition of liberals, socialists and
Commmnists., At the time of the 19)7-198 Revolution in Costa Rica,
however, Mario fought with the Communist forces. In June 1959, the
Agency was considering the possibility of recruiting Mario. The field
reported in August 1959 that Mario is being regularly visited by Conmunists
who leave printed propaganda with him. In its August 1959 report, the
field reported that a third brother—in~-law, Azdruval is currently employed
as a shoemaker in a San Jose shop owned by a Communist. Azdruval is also
reported to ba sympathetic to Communism. SS

WH Division advises that Subject's operational capability and
achievements are outstanding and point out that he received a personal
commendation from the DDCE for his services on behal? of the Agency
during early 1959 when he contacted Fidel Castro in the Sierra Maestra
mountains of Cuba.

 
 

ioetoretoeg]

: o was
ea eribppano rons wo, 64 on AIT TD TT

Office Memorandum c UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To : DATE: 25 February 1960
Acting Chief, Personnel Security Division
* STURN GS SIA
FROM : Deputy Chief, Clearance Branch Bsckground Use Only
» [ie Nek Reproduce

SUBJECT: CROZIER, Ross Lester
#112569.

Reference is made to your query of 19 February as to whether Subject,
a Career Agent, grade GS-12, would be eligible for employment as a staff
employee, contract employee or independent contractor. The record on
Subject for the moment in the Office of Security is a covert file which
has been reviewed at your request.

Subject has had a covert affiliation with the Agency since 1949. He
is 37 years of age and native born of native born parents. After withdrawing
from high school in June 190, he enlisted in the US Army in August 1910.
He served in the Army Air Corps as an intelligence specialist until dis-
charged in July 1915. He returned to Panama to marry his wife in December
19:5 (he met her at an Army post exchange while stationed in the Panama
Canal Zone in 1943). He was employed as a civilian laborer by. the US
Naval Air Station at Coco Solo, Canal Zone during the winter of 195-6,
ve-enlisting in the USAF as an Intelligence NCO in April 19)6. Upon com
pletion of his enlistment in the USAF in 1949 he.was recruited by this
Agency serving. Cuba and currently in Mexico. He
was granted a high schoo ploma in 1 on the basis of GED tests, and
attended universities in Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Cuba working towards a
B.A. degree in economics. He was broughJto the US for training in basic
tradecraft during the autumn of 1953.

 

Favorable National Agency record checks and a check of RI were com
pleted on Subject in September 1954. <A favorable background investigation
and a re-check of National Agency records was completed in May 1957. The
AGO check indicated that Subject had been granted a Secret clearance by
the Caribbean Air Command on 18 May 1948 on the basis of a limited inves~
tigation. RI checks at this time were not derogatory. A check of source
K on Subject, his alien spouse and some of his alien in-laws developed in-
formation covered below. Both Subject and his wife were given favorable
polygraph interviews in April and May 1958.

When Subject married in December 195, he acquired an alien wife and
numerous alien in-laws, all Costa Rican nationals, Subject's wife, whose
maiden name was Argentina CORDERO Calderon, was born 15 March 1918 in
San Jose, Costa Rica. Her parants were born in Costa Rica and are deceased,
her father since 1942 and her mother since 1956. Her grandmother was born
in Germany. She has nine siblings one of whom died as a child, She

ZI C = TNT
 

. tee : Rackground
ae » Do Not Reproduce

It is the hope of :

WH Division that a tour in the United States will : \
. enable his wife to become an American citizen. Reports

from the field also indicate that Subject's wife is witting of his work

and at one time 1 Ce mada his agent contacts for him when ha

was sick. : to~ :

In light of the information presented above, it is not believed that
Subject is eligible for staff employment or contract Type A employment.
Yt is conceivable, however, that Subject could be utilized as an inde
pendent contractor with access to information classified through SECRET,
provided his future usefulness to WH Division would not be nullified by
ah overt association with this Agency. It is recommended that WH Division
be so advised. .

Exvin W. Umbach

)
y

aye

y f Use tang
rf rofs?

Key op at Ga Gs whe X ni5o PPPs

ane

ve he. V2 Es
vpy EE]

 
