74-00000

 

 

SECRET OGC 77-3747
6-)0-79

10 June 1977

-MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. William W. Wells

Deputy Director for Operations

VIA -: Mr. Anthony A. Lapham
: General Counsel

FROM ': Maurice A. Sovern
Office of the Special Assistant. to’ the
DDO for External Oversight

SUBJECT : Letelier Assassination - Rosselli Traces

1. In August of 1976, the Senate Select Committee
arranged a joint meeting between representatives of the
Committee staff, the FBI and CIA and representatives of
the Dade County, Florida Police Department who were then
investigating the murder of Mr. John Rosselli. It will
be recalled that shortly before Rosselli met his sudden
demise, he testified before the SSCI who were looking into
the Letelier assassination.

2. . At the meeting, the Dade County detéctives posed
a series of questions which they believed would assist them
in. their investigation of Rosselli's murder.

3. Within the limitations of the protection of
sources and methods, we prepared replies to some of their
queries, but.asked the Attorney General in October 1976

‘for guidance on the propriety of our assisting the local

law enforcement officials in light of the constraints in
E.O. 11905. We suggested to the Attorney General that we
believed the FBI was the appropriate vehicle for further
dealing with the Dade County authorities and forwarded
our answers to the DOJ for further dissemination via that
channel.

4. We recently received a reply from the Attorney
General that we can make this material available to the
Dade County police, if we choose. While the DOJ response
to our letter was in process, a new Director was appointed,

 

      

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES !
AND METHODS HvOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 018630

      

SECRET

 
 

 

[tog 10406-10019

  
    
  

   

NCLASSIFIED Ueenty 0 EE CONFERENTIAL SECRET

use LY
‘ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

 

SUEECT: -. (Optional)

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.

 

 

 

sor GTO oinone” [“] SECRET = [] CONFIDENTIAL =] Yee © E] UNCLASSIFIED ..

 
14-00000

SECRET

who in the course of his confirmation hearings was asked by.
John Marks (of Marchetti fame) whether the new DCI would
continue to permit CIA obstruct Justice in the Letelier
investigation by refusing to make this material available
to the Dade County investigators. ;

5. LA Division has again prepared the same answers to
the original questions, now for direct transmittal to the
Dade County authorities. However, the circumstances of the
investigation are substantially changed. At our request,
an OGC attorney telephoned one of the investigators who.
told him that they were pursuaded that it was. a gang-style
; ‘slaying for reasons unconnected to the Letelier. assassination
: or the Rossélli testimony before the SSCI. The investigator
also gave the.impression that they really weren't looking
for the material but that it would be nice to have to complete
their files on the case. The investigator was more interested
on what material CIA had on organized crime. :

 

 

6. The pressure to make our trace material available
to Dade County authorities is internal. The Director indi-
cated to the General Counsel in response to the latter's
briefing on the.Marks question that we should give this
material to the Dade County police. It is clear that when
the Director gave his order, he was assuming that the
material was important to the investigation and that it.
was needed, neither of which presently is the case.

; '7. We can be done with this matter by your concurring
in the attached memorandum; however, we are taking the
unusual step of routing it through the General Counsel
before it reaches you to ask for their guidance on whether
-release is still necessary.

8. We would also like to bring to the General Counsel's
notice a tactical suggestion from LA Division who notes
Office of Security Miami office's long relationship with the
Dade County police authorities and. whether further negotia-
tion and any future transmittal of material should be
accomplished through them. *

 

Maurice A. Sovern

0/SA/DO/0:MASovern: kaw (1542)

Distribution
Original 4 1 - DDO
2 - OGC
2 » SA/DO/O

SECRET

 
