13-00000

   
  
 

 
 
   

 

cein the files or.
; : que Eugonio Abascal
soy Seretieu vthat this inforsation -

_ Was processed Gut of tha Gffice of Security/
. Security Research Staff, to which Nilay. reportad
Lo , the inforaation., However, as Wiley states in’ |

' the repertr "I urged ‘Abascal to go to the. FRI.
with the information, and offered to arrange a-
‘meeting. He prosiised te tell them the story,
and wade cantact through an ageat (O' Brien}
‘whom he knew pocause of past activitiss.”

   

Regarding Abascal, his. O¢fice of Security
file contains the , following. cencerniazg his
veracity: .

Office of Security/Security Research
5taff seneorandum dated 15 Aunust 1956: :
*Abascal has for several years furnished
information to SES source which has been =.= ¥
; : : proven to bo atterly worthless and :
be : usually fictitious.”

se rena ; | OF fice of Security/Security Researca
came . Staff memorandum dated 19 Yay 1965:
; “(Abascal} hee £uraished source with
hutelligence information whith appears
to be complete fabrication.” :

FBI letterhead uenorandus dated
35 Sestember 1953 captioned “Hoviniente
-- Gemoecrata Cristiane CisC)" contsins the
following statements about Abascal by
: oe ¥3I sources: “One would only have to
ae 7 : : know Enrique Abascal to know that this
- "ow = A fa Life wagazine-article) wes aotring fe
bat 3 gublicity stunt en his part and - ~

 

 
104-10300-10205

 

en ae

  
  

 

we sono Fos ~The Review Staff. -

 

VEAL oo t

SUSdICT - 2

 

 

ne 2 - Reference is: nade to a- nexerandum, captioned’ es. above,
‘dated 32 September 1975 forwarding copiss of gertain docussn
frou the Office of Secu srity files concerning
These cocuments wore requested by Mr. Jeffrey Raydea, Senate
falect Committee Staff, who commenced a review of the :
files on 25 Septerber 1375,

 

 

 

: 2. The Gffiee of Security has concluded s scsarate ‘review
i of thel ‘(files and has highlishted certein contents thereof
. ts the SCi. Tne SUL has requested that materials concerniag
ae foliowing items he provided to the Senate Select Cousitree
ependent. af any Senate Select Conuittse Stare Fequss ts, to

a
as
ay wit .
?
e

 

bee  iaryey Us Uswald

The files contain a raw, uievalvated report:
froa[____ontaind g Sia resorting of an alle-
ation that Lea Harvey Osweld was. in Hew York
city in the Winter of ige2, having contact with
g Cuban.

co o {Attached te fnatent momorandun, Tab A, ig.
; _ ; ‘ art, and attendaat
the ronort cire2

  

 

 

| | Document Number 4352- (060

for FOIA Review on MAR 1977 °
13-00000

carn C stoner ©

 

“It: is. apparent, the Office of Security/ |
R rch Staft had seal pr to.

 
  

and that there was a. “‘yoagon to “believe
that’ Abascal would repert the inforsatioa
: ta the FRI for their action.

 

 

Arlington com Howse, Publishers

Fhe ‘€iles contaia @ raw, unevaluated .
yopert froa jcontaining his reporting ©
of an allogation that CIA had partial
control -of, and: once atteapted full control —
of, Arlington Sousa, Publishers. |

 

(Attached to instant menorandua, T. Tab B,
is a copy of Wiley's original report as wall

a3 ¢onies of attendant decuments. The files owe.
contaia no further clarification of the cre
information.)

Tnore is no Office of Securlty subject |
4 : - file in tha name of Arlington House or
oe Avlington House, Publishers. co -

From ather sources, it would appear
that Arlington House, Publishers is con-
nected with the conservative cnuses af
Nillias FP. Buckiey and the sational Nevisew.
Huckiey is a former. Asency sfayves ghd
tis close connactions with former Auency
esplisyes E. Heward Hunt. bave recently
recelyed extensive publicity. tis
believed that mumsrons forner Ageacy
employees ara linked with Suckley’s causes,
: this couid be the foun

‘lation for the
ney inveive tf da Ariiagten

 

   

 
  

   
 

 

    
13-00000

 

en C Soe

3. Your attention is eaegein directed te the concerns of .
tue Office of secur as expressed in the referenced seno-
randum, that the file documents and a11 statements
contained therein, sven though net classified as such, be
narefully and pradently handled to protect the individuais
identified thereia. .

 

Robert #, Ganbine
Director of Security

Atts

Distribution: ;

Oriz € 2 - Addressee w/atts
- SOA w/o atts
- D/Security w/o atts
‘OS Registry w/o atts
DD/PSI w/atts
SAG w/atts

File w/atts

OS/PSI/SAG/ @aige (210CT75)

fed ped fed ft pet pet

 
