  

~- Inside’ Washington’

". CIA Withheld

Ll. By ROBERT S. ALLE
i. And PAUL SCOTT

WASHINGTON, Oct, 20.
o—The Central] Intelli.
Bence Agency withheld

- vital intelligence infor.
“mation from the Warren
*-Commission during its in-
vestigation of the assas.
“; sImation. of President
*. Kennedy. - _ 7
Despite the commis.
- sion’s written request for
"+ all documents that might
' shed light on the assas
sination, CIA authorities
failed to turn over a na.
tional intelligence esti.

"mate warning that it is .

Kremlin policy te remove
+ from pu
4. .Sassination Western offi-

 
  

 
 

 

lic office by as. -

 
  

se TG

cials who actively oppose
“Soviet policies, —
Titled “Soviet-sy Phas)
Executive Baths
suppresse
“ment went intel he
ing details of "how ager
of KGB, the Soviet \aa
police, are trained te de
away with Western Yead-
ers, including officials in,
e U.S. and to make
their deaths appear due
to natural causes,
One-of the KGB’s new-
dy devised assassination
wapons--is “a: pnumati-
Cally, operated poison ica
‘atomizer,’ - which leaves
no wound. or other -evie
dence of the cause of,
death”* «5 vo * =

  
  

  

 

Je
oie
the State I

Consressionz} invest.

Sstors 2lso have been
Shocked to Siscevar thas

ital

.. While this deadly weap. : tim

rene Serge eee an

‘or’s visit to the
embassy and not .
an embassy. The | ? A
Rot xeport the -'4:

2ssassination _

 

   
  
    
 
  
    

liquid .<

form. ‘The
re .@r times even having -within™ sec
4 ly op. | them" ‘eliminated’ physis - autopsy ¥o

 

Russia cally. an * iis use, D
id with “Such activities ‘are -* poisons hay

tsize, gun, “known to be undertaken ed whicn d

weting only. orders against other types of fect untiL-

om Moscow to use it. persons in the West, not-.-after being

The Murder Weapons -: ably defectors from the “thus allowi
iGHLIGHTS USS.

of the and from other: to be far

suppressed int elligence countries of the Soviet- when his y
‘estimate, which is locked bloc. ae tA
@ security area within . _, “One recently reported source has
ly-guarded CIA, ” assassination technique is pneumatical
are as follows: :
“It has been reported nal by luring him to
-. tliat the KGB endeavors use a telephone, connect- pr other: ev
- to remove~the-.threat to ed to a high-voltage wire, cause of de
Soviet interests posed by :
; certain members of West- ..“Another involves the §

.*

A Kn or

to electrocute an individ- Poison Jed
which leaye

during a thunderstorm, > Congressi

‘alors, who
use of a pistol which

* projects a Polson gas In

 
  

t

 

  

unt after: :

aia

 
‘oa t0051-t0220

ae

 

NR

      

    

 
 
 
  

 

   
      
   
   
 
     
 

 
      
  
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
    
  

 

 
     
        

     
  
   
 

  

   

    
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
   

 
    

  
  
 

 

 

oe 5 o- . .
| 4 . an
|
ed . 4
tee oe * mm, .
4 ee eT. . a . ° ~~
a “ . . t oy. ; . . iz
a :
CIA Withheld Vital intelligence From War ren Commission
. . . ed dismissal of suely ersons “Mantd or compressed for sceurity reasons re-
“By ROBERTS, ALLEN cials wo getively oppose on Big yet Mi nn we trom n public off ae ol: form. The gas is fatal port that. CIA | Director
. And PAUL SCOTT eaetit "Sov let Strategie ern officlt iteds of |. mes even having’ within’ seconds gad an oat rth explosive
ON, Oct. 20. preentive Action,” the “KGB agen yrtly op: «fem ‘ellminated’ phys “gulopsy would not revea mention of ts ie sceret
OS ral intelli: suppressed CLA’ docu erating oo oN i “willy “a yeh: activities are | ts use. ave been report testimony before the-
yence Agency withheld CO a et hove gents this. poekear gun," known to be undertaken ed which do not take of shoyWarren Commission. ,
vital intelligence . Infor SEAGR, the Soviet sceret awaiting @plysarders against other types of :fect until several hess”, While McCone furnishe]
myation from the its i . Ge are trained to do from Moscow a persons In the West, not-. after being a A the commission with
Conynission during its in- \pslics, ith Western lead» °The Murder eat he : ably defectors from the -thus allowing an assas AD) CIA's secret surveile | Juke
vestigation of the aasfy- Mtnding officisls in- HIGHLIGHTS. R. and from other to be far from thet Give .reporis on Ica
sins ation of Pre ; 5 a0) eave tte make -s suppressed , int Sheet countries of the Sovict When, bls victif - g Joe Oswald’s  cizht
. Kennedy, % mn) Raat % M City be
, Despily Lhe congniss) t Beane aue oar syn sein _ “One recently reported. source has, desays he sssseinalio. Fi to Tans
sion’s written request Pane Kab's new-. the: dently guardegech4. assassination technique is pneumatically op ig details of
all documents that mughsc—, (vista sssnasination are as follows: ‘ “2%, to electrocute an in divid- poison ee ‘ato s@s-contact with the
shed light om the assis NWE=3) “a: pnumath “It has been re! fed ual by Juring him to which leaves no 3 s on agent in the pe
sinalion, CIA authoritieg5 ys ” om natied polsort icesethat. the KGB endeavors, Use 2 telephone, connect- or other qvidence 23 te O Sta there, |
failed to turn over a ee: Oral ich ileaves-ito remoyerthe, thre Sed to a high-voltage wire, ..cause of dea 4 BF “Gipochicl gaye no
tional intelligence gst 4 other -evlest Soviet: interests" { posed: Sfuring a thunderstorm. Congress ona nvi Ef Keron 3 ae
mate warning that it Is o jause of s,cortaln members of “Another involves the gators, who rave hag olicy.
co. Kren paey te remove Gaby SGmeeoernane gomieeeshs oS MG SN Ulta BE Sa vcdie ono 7
Co rosintion Western “ofthe We sigan weap, fined; srranging for: giects a polson gas in ‘commitice be Keo
Qo ee ° pr
open sue of Sate i
2 Fm mag tenes oe ee, ws .
a : Doguments “4 by“adinlnlptratio = 2
a a officials to Speaker. John : .
; ho OTHER | “US. ” MeGonmack {Mass,), next . “
a " ¢e nee experts, vsny Aus 5 * In dino fo succeed Presi . ’ ’
o> ious of Russla’s co-ox-! dent Johnson. = * thy
28 islence Iino,. stress ‘that 2: ct Whilo FBI wlfictsilg ¢: . .
= ,, the -Warrem Commis. “ qwarnod 2 peer MeCor.,...° a
F4 “ sion's findings might? gael, a dedicated’ antes ,
“} ao e Shaye been different if Communist, that jhe ds ‘on, oe .
be this CIA~ esthmale, an e-Ust -of Western ‘oli ij oe he 7 .
ro “«pther — documents .” sup thals feared by. the Krom 32s : : ‘ . im
g . pressed by the ‘State Deo! . din: no CIA _ authority Lo ; , " . “,
: * ‘partment had been aval." has Shown the No, 2, man ’ : :
Ww. - able for study, . , a
re vo Whey point “out: tha
: oD ithe State <Deparlmentiss ot

 

‘ Or
. 2 -guppresged evidence inks jts
ide Oswald. "svith ono -of iy
te employes, «avhe . ae.
-eordiniz to” seenrity. files

   

   

   

"feamnod bout ze ames
oniv reeanily from orn.

 
