74-0000

3 JUL 1957
Chief, CI/OA

Demty Director of Security (Investigations and Suppart)
F112569

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 28 February
1957 wherein e covert security approval was requested to emble
the Subject's conversion from contract agent to career agent
status for use es ipal agent for Project AC Gal “jin
Cuba under Reference is also made to cur
nenorandmn: of 2 April 1957 in which a provisional covert
’ security clearance was granted for the sbove use.

 

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in the
Director's Memorandum of 1h February 199 entitled, "Security
and Operational Clearances,* a covert security clearance is
granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your request
as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

- 3. This clearance is continzent upon the following:

a. The receipt ty this office of full overseas
traces and such actual overseas investi::tios as is
possible on Subject and on his ife and her family.

b. that Subject bu afforded a volygraph inter-
rozation as soon as possible ané that the verbatun
results be promptly furnished te this office. The
Office of Security will be happy to assist in
arranging this interroz/ tion.

 
  
  
  
 
  

4, Subjects of covert security clearances are not to represent
themselves es, nor are they to be represented as, employecs of
CIA.

S. Your attention is callei to the fect thet a covert security
clesrance docs not censtitute complete compliance with the
provisions of CIA Regulation 10-215. Therefore, if you should
Gevire at c later date to change the stetus or use of this
indivi.ual, a request for clearance to cover any proposed change
should be subnitted tolthistoffices

soe ge Ty Clu

  

nhs te
- EO 308

ax iS me an hos
Ne" ae
an
loti

 

DARG FORM NO. 64 cs a eo ¥
fi erin + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

10 x, /B bare i [GOO

ted
7 CR a az,

     

~ CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998
G6, This clearanee becazcs invalid in the event the Subject's
services are ot utilized within 60 days the date of this
memorandum.

FOR THR DIRECTOR OF SECURITY s

  

tne 1957 (retyped)
1 July 1957 (retyped)
CLOSED

CHINA BY

WE tS ICE

SECRET
14-00000

Depaty Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

C=25507
€112569

L. Concurrent uith this nenorandaa e covert security clearance
is being issued to enable the Subject's converaien fran contract

agent to career agent for_use as orincipal agent for Project
au Col Jin Cuba udeh 1

2. This is to advise thst information has bean received
‘from 2 confidentiel source of the Office of Security concerning

 

 

 

 

 

 

lend ber sister: who are
believed téjthe Subject's wife and reupectively.
According to a December 19h: report, the above individuals

suspicion and meni. Russian Ballet team of Pedro and
Lidia CUUPRIIC. knoam to sveal and understand
Geran. She was formerly married te ererer eae ePortety
a Germn national and formerly on & Ue Se
Proclained List. Sne is reliably rev-orted to have made pro-
German remarks en. is cro-Gernan in her sympathies. It was
further reported that both of the above individuels heve at
times attempted to secure inforsatian froa members of the
American armec Forces.

3. in view ef the above inforvation,.{t is requested that
current overseas traces end investigation te canducted on the
Subject as well as on his wife and sister-in-lau,( O06 “| end
other members of his wife's inmediate family and that the
{ results thereof be firnished this office,

  
   
  

_. The covert security clearance which is being issued
ir. this case is made contingent unon the favorable results of
the rejuested overseas traces and investigation.

Pon THE DESERT OF SEOVAYIY:

 

“GLb
Eyiow
yne 1957
EMENTAL
- SO sun BEL, ee
mn ge SEE a ae et hr at Fia beseomed wid > 225
Bras served a 1: Be Bicteatd cxongee,
w CIA .. 4 seh : vt aoe be weed ely: ta
tr pay = 0K $\... oes ste gene dpgecit ab hee Secuciny Offege, ue

SEGRET
