   

Sancti dyn GRE NAR" png AOE a

 

 

     

SERRE ss
SECURITY INFORMATION
. (9)

   

 

   

 

     

 

at)
a

EPAODUCTIONS

B. GAAG

 
    

 

SECREF

  
   

      

   

 

 

 

   

‘ “ , . . too oo
“SECURITY INFORMATION a ae ob
ae b3-#-7-377 |
. . . 0 . mo. : ; ah
‘RING Rains Sect dering Mle ie FS a cee aE Ra tn a Ow See eA - 4

 

     
Be. Qn the other hand, anti-Comminist propaganda is heavy, daily *
and in @1] media of propaganda, Edjtoriaks, cartoons, and ar
newspaper articles depioting Communian in its worse light .~ .
appear every day im the five daily newspapers. The radio
does ite share of anti-Commnist propaganda. There has been
olese to a “hate campaign” of Guatemalan Communism with the
emphasis on Corumnisine

Summary . ;

A. In gumation, the PCS ia ineffective as a political force at
the present tims. It has not been a political force in the
lest twenty years, but it hasgpade progress in labor matters
and probably at one time contyolled more than one half of the
syndicates, This is no lon true, however, and the PCS has
lost most of its influence among labor by a strong goverment
policy against Commnisn. In acddttion, anti-Commnist propa-
ganda, by both the Government and private intereats, hag been
effective in weaning labor away from Cowmnist influence.

Be The new policy of the PCS is to to be less overt and more
clandestine, The PCS aims to “plant® ite members in atrategic
unions and government offices, to “cooperate”, and to await
the opportune time before they announce themeslves as Commmnists.
I® appears that the PCS ia almost completely dependent upon the
Communist Party of Guatemala for ite instructions and directives; .
consequently the success or failure of the Commnists in Guate--
mala will determine the futero policies of the PCS. (This ia
also the belief and the fear of the Salvadoran Government).

.C. The PCS will produce anti-US propaganda at every opportunity,

bat at the present thoy have no organ of propaganda and the two
leaflets they have produced since September, 1962 are considers

od ineffective. The people of El Salvador appear te completely
support President OSORIO whem they recognise as dedicated to in-
creasing wages, raieing the standard of living, granting better
education, and obtaining better food and living quarters for all.
Glasses of workers. In addition, the Governmont haa made it clear
that the threat of Communism comes from Guatemala which has made ils
anti-Communist propaganda quite effeative. uo

 

SC UEEDY INT ORBATION

 
 

 

tteinaldo

 

(7)

the labor leaders by the Communist, But without his knowledge
that he is a creature of the Commurist. One report atates that
GALINDO POHL is behind the rise of JJLE. At any rate, he has
become an important labor figure offer night. Labor unions and
their individual members are now more cooperative with the Min-
ister of Labor and: with government policy than they have been in
the past, Several unions. have lost their Commniste directors
through elections which were held throughtout November and Dec-
ember. The rank and file members of the unions have been made
aware of Communism by means of Government action and a strong
propaganda campaign; consequently, it is knwon that Labor, in
its newly acquired political consciousness has given its support
te the Government.

IV. Propaganda

A.

Be

aes
\

Commnist propaganda is neglible. Since the State of Siege was
declared the 27th of September, 1952 there have been enly two
instances in which communist propaganda has appeared on thestreets
of San Salvador. In both cases the propaganda was mimeographed
and did not appear to have a large circulation as perso

ceiving such propaganda were difficult to find (not even!” PULAR
could find @ copy among his Communist friends) and there dere |
no editorial coments on the eppearance of the propaganda, The -
Law in Defensa of the Constitution passed by tha Kstional Aesenbly
in December, 1952 makes it illegal to bs a st, to partie
cipate in any Communist activity, or to work on of Commun=
iem in any manner. This law and the fairly rigid’ cation of
it by the Government has undoubtedly deterred nany. from proaoting
in any fashion Commnist propaganda. (The Govertment has in the
past failed to recognised the right of Habous Cotpus in those cases
of jailed Communists). ;

Recently there have been two newspaper articles which may have been

 

exio da Ocoidente of Santa Ana which is edited ty ons Alfredo

“BDterte inspired but this is pure speculation and nothing more.The
-—>
RADA (once exiled for opposition to President OSORIO) published

an article that the United states Marines had lended in Guatenala

to protect the United Fruit Company. No source or by-line was given.
Another arti¢le published by several of the newspapers but which
ésened to have originated in Honduras, Costa Rica, or Managua stat-
ed that the HENRY FORD III Foundation had given five million dol-
lars to fight Communism in Central America, © | .

ra

SECRET

cotenTy INFORMATION.”

 

 

ae Aho tered PaO! ena

 

 

pepphavee 2 8 3

SER tamale nt ee Oe OR EET BEBE WP Mt a REOERLRM BIAEASS Lie ABB Im am at

 
14200000. 2 .
. . . . . + an ; . ae ; | x

 

 

 

 

 

related to the Minieter). Prier_te the declaration of the

State of Siege, it was Learnc that there was
a certain amount of sabotage Ministry of Labor.
4 few days after the State of Siege was declared it was reported
that SALAZAR VALIENTS was arrested for being the Director of a

- Co mnist cell witnin the “inistry of Labor and that he «as re-

‘ sponsible for the sabotage of the Government trucks. Sone Army
officers reportedly asked President OSORIO to discharge Mario
Hector SALAZAR for harboring a Co-munist cell within the Ministry.
The cell has been, of course, liquidated and the ‘‘inister con~ —
times to have the faith of the President ami most of his former

detractors.

  
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
   
  

_“roARsanea AMAYA, Inspector General of the “Anay) was being used by
Tory ; A known militant, Cormunist, to obtain information

about tha Army and possibly to elicit the support of certain Ary
officers in a move to overthrow the Government. This plan nas, for

the time being, come to nought.
; Fe (ies believes that there are several Communists in the Presi-
in Commnists to the President add
U > consequently; dangerous. He could not give names, put he did
pa ———— Beet CASEY doubtedly a Communist. Bunts B10,

a Costa Rican poo (or once was) is reported to mis-
“tneas of Jose*Quatelas the residential Press Secretary. This in-
formation was passed on to Liaison with no viaible resulta, ODIO -
contimes to write for the tarious newspapers, but all of her pub-
blighed writtings at the present are innocuous, Jeaquin Was
- <= Ganagles or better known by hia pen nee,” cass, waa wntdl o
* few montha ago the Editor of the Gove: newspaper La Tribana

 

Useved of this position, however, sometime in October,

time the editorial policy of the newspaper became much more. sym=
pathetio to the United States. Quino Caso has been dssoribed as
a Commnist and yet described as a person who is against ell pol=
itical moverants, Communism, Facism, ete. The trerth is not know

at-this tine.

wim t
»

SECURITY INFORMATION

‘ (Dri. Antonio’ A RANGA AMEYA ( a Lawyer and brother to(Colone} Rafael -

. '
in which Quino Caso often attacked ths United States. He as se
1953 this

cpa Se EE TE FO

     
  

‘0. REPR

FURE. GARD.

   
 

te

 

UCTIONg

PROD

 
14-00009-.:

ae ae
eee
oe sad

¢5)

related to the Minister); to the declaration of the
State of Siege, it was learnc that there was
a certain amount of sabotage Ministry of Labor.

A few daya after the State of Siege wan declared it was reported
that SALAZAR VALIENTS was arrested for being the Mrector of a
- Co mmnist cell within the “Ministry of Labor and that he was re-

‘ soonsible for the sabotage of the Government trucks. Some Army
officers reportedly asked President OSORIO to discharge Hario
Hector SALAZAR for harboring a Co munist cell within the Ministry.
The cell has been, of course, liquidated and the “inister cone -
times to have the faith of the President amd most of his former

detractors.

‘ E. In other branches of the Government there appears to be no Cone
minist influence and no imow penetration. The Army has always
remained anti-Communist and there have been no reporte indicating

. any Communist in the Arny and further-more no reports have been
received that the Commnists hzve been or are planning the pene-
a tration of th eo Amy. The Station did receive one report that
Dra. AntonloNoA AMEYA ( a lawyer and brother to(Colone} Rafael -
20 “CARRANZA AMAYA, Inspector Gener he. Amy) was being used by
* Tony ; & know militant Cormunist, to obtain information.
about the Amy and possibly to it the support of certain Amy
officers in a move te overthrow the Governnent. This Plan has, for
the time being, coms to nought.
Pe [ ator believes that there are several Commniste in the Presi-
: House who are unimown as Commnists to the President arid
6 consequently; dangerous. He could not give names, but he did
“Bete thaetyGALINDO POHL was undoubtedly a Commniat. Eunts
a Costa eamtclne the (or once was) ‘de reported to mis-
“ tress os the Presidential Press Secretary. This ine
formation was passed on to Liaison with no visible results, ODIO -
contimes to write for the tarious newspapers, but all of her pub-
blished writtings at the prosent are innocuous, Joaquin'GASTRO >
<< Canagles or better known by hi e pen nates guind Cale) Wa un me

“few months ago the Editor of the Gove wepaper La Tribuna

in which Quino Caso often attacked the United States. He waa:

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   

 

 

 

tims the editorial policy of tho newspaper became mush more aym=
pathetic to the United States. Quino Caso has been desoribed as
a Commnist and yet dasoribed ag a person who ie against all pole
itical ie Corumand.em, Faciem, etc. The tirth is not lmgun
at-this e .

‘ ©

  

val

7 SECURITY INFORMATION

tae Tee

'
E
lgeved of this pogition, however, sometime in Cotober,1953sAe thie
H

 

 

“ha
eran wramrgees nee

    
  

‘obUcTIOng:

   

aREPR

 

RO

ta

CARD.

ranean

PURE,

  

+
Be

Fe

=a ra Cea

 

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATIO¥
(2)

America coming into El Salvador from Guatemala, lore prope
aganda was discovered on both the train, in trucks and auto»
mobiles and on suspicious persons entering YA Salvador from
both Guatemala and Honduras, In the summer of 1952 the Gove
erment began to ingpect the baggage of exiled Salvadoran
Cormuniota who were landing at ILopanyjo airport intransit to
Guatemala, In this fashion they discovered and consficated
Commnist pins, leaflets, books filme (Ba films printed by”
Peiping), addressed, etc., from Salvadorans treveling to Came
mainist. China and Commnist Europe on Guatemalan passports.

One week after President OSORIO and President ARBENZ of Guate- -
mala mat on the common border, Prosidtnt OSORIO declared a
ugtate of Seige at which time he arrested about two hundred
“Commnist" in the Capital city of El Salvador and about 4
"thousand" throughout the country. He deported 18 Commnists
to Costa Rica and kept another forty or fifty in jail. The
Governnent had published"Communist Party Plans for the overe
throw of the Government" with photographs of grenades, rifles,
pistols, mimeograph machines, ete. purportedly found in the -
homes of varioug Conmunist leaders. Neither the Party Plans.
nor tha amount of arms appeared to the undersign « nor to other
kmbassy Officials » authentic, logical, sufficient, and danger-
ous enough to warrant the State of Siege. Tt appsardd to be
Gavernment propaganda aimed at’ explaining ita actions to the
mass of people. It ie believed that the real reason for the
Governments action was the fear of the future if Communist,
propaganda was sontimed.

The background for today's situation; via a vis the Come
munist Party of El Salvador, must include certain political, +
military,and economic facts. President OSOSIO is politically. |
acute; he is sinceros he is progressive and desires greater
democracy for his country.which he realises ie dependent upon
greater literecy and educations OSORTO has permitted the growth
and the creation of other political parties, but no other pol-
itdcal party threatens the atrenght of the President's party -
Partido Revolucionario de Union Democzatica., The Amy is com-
pletely leyal to the President end if there are political mach=
inations within tho Amy they ere in the foxm of plans for the
nomination and election of their respective cartidates in the
elections to be held in 1956. The Army, itself has various
political cliques within it, but to the beat of our knowledge
all cliques give OSORIO: their full support. Keonomically, the
country is very sound with a high degree of employment and wages
dnoreasing. In view of strong economy and a stable anti-Come
munist Governemt the Communist Party of B1 Salvador finds very
few orecke in tho political well in which to effectively place
their propaganda wodges.

SEQREL

tee SB .
SECURITY INFORMATION

 

 
 

  

vua:__AIR PoucH  -

CRPECIFY AIR OR SHA POUCH)

    
    

_» SECURITY INFORMATION
"CLASSIFICATION

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. In 1932-1933 thousands of Salvadorans were Idlled in what was

-  \mown as a Commnist uprising. At that time many Commnist were
kdlled and many escaped abroad where they are contiming their
Commnist activities today. The strong reprisals against ,the
Communist twenty years ago, have been strong deterrents to the
growth of Commnism. In addition, International Communism has
-eince those early days concentrated its activities elsexhere ~
not in El Salvador.

Be. The present strength of the Communist Party of 51 Salvador (Pes)
de estimated to be between three to four hundred with 30-10 mili-
tanta (Laision estimates 50) and real “hard-core” members to be
about 15. In considering the individual member of the PCS 1t mst
be advised that he is not the intellectual, the welleread, the trae
veled, the talented Commmnist one finds in Europe or even a large |
South Amsrican in Country.

&. “Groat while extremely anti-Commnist, toleretes Comma
be Seiénds and: has exiled certain Communist friends with
~~ Goverment venaione and diplomatic poste in the belief that abroad

.. they can do no harm, At home a Communist who does not
oppose OSORTO can and probably does hold a government job 4 NDO-?
oS: . ‘eee ae .
: Stdeanee .

. ‘De Not until tho Governnent discovered large amounts of Communiet .
“ propaganda coming into El Salvador from Guatemala did the Governe ~
mont realise the danger of Commniem. The influx of such propae
genda was first noticed about one year ago when @ bundle of propae
‘ganda wae discovered on the "Tatematic ad of, Cenetrel 1

Gi Brita
RICO
SHH

  
 
    

  

oe SrORRATION
"(a 81-26A KEATON

 
  

 
 
 

¥ a] oh
x
y PEGA MATION
IY, Politics:
, Ae In August of 1951 it was reported that, the Corgmnigt would

  
   
   
    

Be

ar

Co

4%:

e

attempt to penetrate the Partido Accion Renovadora (FAR) to

such an extent that they would have control, whereby they could
elect Communists to the National Assembly. ‘he Communists did
infiltrate PAR, but they became so mumorous and so vociferous
that the members of PAX finally realized what had happened and
printed leaflcta dennouncing the Communists within the Party.
PAR practically dissokved thereafter and again the Communists
were left without a political front group. The Commniats dure
ing thia time did a lot of talking and planning, but’they admit-
ted that it was difficult "undor the OSORIO regime" to make pol-
itieal strides, but that they were malcing great advetges in the
labor movement. It can be written that the Commmis$ Party to-
day has had no success in either establishing itself. as a strong
political force nor has it been able to use another’ poligical par-
ty as ite tool. -

Within the Government, the ‘-Unistry of Labor and the Ministry of
Culture and Education are frequently attacked for hagboring Come-
manists, It hasbeen revorted at various times that Renaldo
GALINDO PHL, Minister of Culture end Education is a Commnist.
Juan Bosch, the Dominican Communist is exupposed to have called
GALINDO a ®relfable comrade.” Presidnet OSORIO is reportedly
aware of GALINDO'S political beliefs, but disregards then since
they are friends and CALINDO is not Imowingly plotting against
OSORIO. The President also belioves that GALINDO ‘can be well
tyatehed® where he ie and that to discharge him or exile him would
nake him moxe dangerous. GALINDO is aleo accused of orsating the

fate *. INSTTTUTO. MORAZAN which became domi nated by gome twenty seven

Communists professors. (Please see TSS-803)
While the National University is autonomous, it does receive fine
encial support from the Ministry of Culture and Education. It has
been the National University whore the Communists. have Re he
ONE

*. ¢heds greatest success. The prominent Communist Rodo.

rrioa wac Dean of the Sohebl of Bacnomice where he
influenced many a students at least tho School of Economica became
the most vociferous on behalf of Commniam, “The Student newspaper

_ OPINION BSTUDIANTIL becans the organ of the Conumniay Party, Each

adition of the newspaper (once a week) followed the Co munist party
line whether it was an "international editorial" or a local onee

SESURITY INFORMATION

 

 

 
 

—_ ceee!
° ; SeChet
Sicdiet (MEL ne oon
(4)

vari’ FLORES HACALL bragged about the

nevspaper as being com-

pletely under the control of the Co!

nist Party.

There was

no doubt. And it was immediately sei

of Siege was declared.
exiled, jailed,

dat the time the State
‘The Co muniags Students have been since

and/or removed from any influence in student

circles,

JUHENEZ Ba

rrios has lost his pesition with the Uni-

‘ verse and has been replaced by a adamant an

~~ Faus'

BZ, however, has been recently

tisCormmnist. Julio -
named Vice-Dean of

* the Scholl of Humanities.

FAUSTO FERNANDEZ is ppobably Salvador{s

most Intellectual Communist.

We recently returnéd from Chile

where he was Counselor in
of amuggling in tax-free
uments. Upon his return
both the Foreign “inister

the Salvadoran Mnbassy.

He was accused _

cigarrettes and stealing government doce
to Salvador he vindicated himself with
and the President. On 31 January, 1953

FAUSTO FERNANDEZ spoke at the Na

tional University at which time

ye dennounced Harxlam and declared that he had returned to the

Catholic faith.
dents, che Army,

The consensus of

opinion among Communists, stu-

and the Priests is that he, FAUSTO FERFAKDEZ,

has not renounced Comaunismy

wat ia ueing another tactic (and the

 

to remain in tha good graces of the

cs only one that would pervit hin
On or about 16 Feb-

‘ Government) to further the Communist cause.

 

 

 

, Tuary, 1953 there appeared on the streets a clandestine Comminist

leaflet,

 

which is believed by seve

ral sources to have been written

"by FAUSTO FERNANDEZ

Tt can ba said that at the present FAUSTO

 

FERNANDEZ ds being discreet and only the future will prove or dis-

 
 

prove his own statements.

 

dD.

In the Ministry of Labor, the Communi.

sts appear to have had soms-

what aimilar success; although their
well Inowm, it was just as dangerouse

 
 

guceesa was not quite as

The Minister Mario Hector. >

-OGALAZAR has often been accused of being a Communist,
believed to be an unfounded accusationbased princi,

 

 

normal work which has, of colirss conflicted,

with the hi

but this is

on his
storical

 

to study in the Unite

interest of the monied clasd@ Romulo
Inspectors, has been considered a Commnist (he was

38 on

_ Leandxo »

Chief of Labor
da grant

explanation) and it
mumerous occassions

has come to the

this basis, but given anoother
attention of thie Station on

that LKAL'S Inspectors often told labor groups

in various industries what policies they sould adapt, shat they

eiokd atrike for, and would advise lebor groups on government bee

nefits, procedure, ete., while on strike. LEAL was influential in

bringing into the Inspector's Department well know Leftist and/or

ie te These’ wore J, Antonio PARADA, Na leon VILLACORTA, Jo -*
<<" Alberto’ VASQUEZ, and Hario%SALAZAR Valéente- ‘Not believed to be

  
   

con

SECURITY INFOS MATION

 

 
