 

([tocetoter-toogs] 7

   

. Pee

  

camer REPORE . i
SUBJECT: Meeting with Toxy Verous, [a Hoteres Motel, Coral Cables,
Florida, lets evening 28 Septenber 1960.

i

2. Gupton and I oat vith Varons at the latter's urgent request. Vercra :
iuferne’ us that be had bad meetings with the Propaganda Committee and with! ;
the Kilitery Comittee. Ha indicated thet he hed approved certain actions { ‘
to be ecnducted by the Propaganda Comittee. He discussed these actions in!
detail vith Gapton, and thera 1 po difference of opinion on the esefulnecs:
of what Vorona intenis to do. i

2. In the wilt $1915, Verona rade the paint that Covlle anf Elena!

felt bodly chout dealing over their beads with the second ami third .

gebelons of thei ecemissions. Ee, Varona, felt that it would be bsot for ; :

-o deal only with Goudie, Elena, and the other mrbers of the Frente's }

geveral staff exi not vith the subordinstes of theses pesple. 2 also said | i

it 4s ixportent for Elena.end Goziie to heve an early unceretanding as to + i

: our strategic. plaming, and that ve sbosld insure thet Blena:becaus not too) i

wabappy at being kept in the. dark. (Cemurot:. Theos. two iteus were -transe. ~ !

. . pitted by ae to COS/MASH during-the lave ‘nours. or 25 Geptenser. - 05 (RAB
: indicated that he vould. striw for’ “tbs solstion of these teo issues.

36 X told Verone thet oe vould ean! in the fetere certain oquiscent
' date Cada, If everything vent well, I vould inform hin end tha FAD ¢
take the cradit, If scathing went vweong, tha YD, hovever, would bee 40;
take the blem (this vas along instructions received fron C/Wi/s). Varcas {
again reiterated the fact chet he bee received broad povere, tet be intend
to reorganize the Propaganda Deyartment, end perbape reuove come poople frox
‘the Military Dopartesnt.

a. Vorcua also requested etvice as to vhether or not he abould buy a.
os washer of Ceb6's which be could get cheap. We d14 not bold out teo auch
. hope for this. (See memorandum to C/iE/s/PH on this subject, dated

30 Bepterder 1960.) os oo,

ite wie, Sarantagesiien

ists,

 

i
1

17 apie ee meen ne ee ae nenesteneetnt tnantinemntnemntte asin tri seein So etre tins ee

 

@ordia (30 Bey 1960)

4 Geman rte
A o Contect Report
ute Vorona Goseier

     
