    
 

Ze, THIS COPY IS NOT
Ps _ FOR RELEASE.

; eB my own ta publish my story in an article or took, But now, the CTA
has not. returned thie courtesy. Instead, it has released sensitive
information to the publio without speaking to me first.

‘Under the circumstances, I would like to respectfully request the
follewing:

1. That you shew this letter to DDO fed Price, Directer James Weolaev
we

and the current heads of the OIk's Freedom of Infermation Office and
Historical Review stefr -- so that they ere eware of what has happened.

2. I would Like te receive, in writing, en explanstion frem these: rea-
ponsible.ef why this release was done,

3. I weuld like te receive a list ef the majer reperta absut me which
have already been released. Aside frem the twe reports thet I already
have seen, I would like te receive copies cf any ether major studies

that have been released. (For instance, if there are reperts released
by Peter Bagley, Newton Miler, James Angleton, the CI Steff end Jehn

Hart, then I would like to see them as well.)

4, I would like te be given the Agency's written assurance that further
releases will not ocour witheut censulting me first.

Bab, you should knew that befere L wrete thie letter I have speken
about this matter with my geed friend George Kalaris. He tos was troub-
led by what I teld him, and he advised me that I sheuld ask the Agency
for an explanation. oO

Beb, I apolegize fer treubling yan with this matter; but I have me one
else to turn te fer assistance. ;

Please let me knew if there ie any respense as seen as pessible.

Respectfully yeurs, ra ore O ENTRY

    
 

, Backgrowe: 2
- Do Not Repro"

  
 
104 40331-10238)

a——l, HIS COPY IS NOT

et

 

 

 

 

 

 

resis Yeesm mr FOR RELEASE. =” m

Dear Bob,

It was very good to meet with you again in Washington on June 12.

I am writing to confirm our recent convereation about ‘the CIA's release
of documents about me to the National Archives..fis I explained to you at
our meeting, I am very displeased that this was done without my knowled-
ge end especially since ny photograyh was officially released by the
Agency for the first time in thirty years.

As you know, it has come to my attention that the CIA released these ©
many hundreds of pages to the public without consulting me or telling
me that this was going to be done. I have already seen copies of two of
theese reports totalling more than 700 pages. One is the October 1968

‘report supporting me by Bruce Solie; the other was a February 1968 re-

port by the CI Steff which attacked my credibility. (This latter report
contains a cory of my photo from the late 1960s. I consider thie a breach
of my personal security.)
I aleo consider many of the details in both of these reparts to be of a
very personal nature. Other pagea deal with with some very sensitive
cages which I gave the Agency about other people. The information in
these rerorts was given freely and accurately by me to the CIA officers
in the 1960s under terms of strict confidentiality. Although it is very
difficult for me te say this, I feel that my trust in the Agency has now
been seriously dameged.
This release particularly troubles me. because for the past thirty years”
I have remaineé very loyal to the Agency and considerate of its wishes. |
For instance, despite many requests, I have only, spoken to a few jouré
nalists, and only when the Agency advised me t&So. I have never sought
‘

RETURN TO CIA
; round Use Only
,. Bo Not Reproduce

 
