nn

 

 

cee re

 

CLOSSIRCATION AYMAN AND NOV :

yoo DISPATCH ‘SECRET oe OF HA-3982

 

| se [MARKED FOR INDEXING
|_| NO INDEXING REQUIRED
a INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Te USSR, Stetve. oc mya
Embassd, pelegge ct Sve

ess
at the Savoy :
Restaurant in Helsinki, as it was Gostille’s t pay the bill. Golub°s
first remarks concerned the amount, of he h
as he was alone thers now since Mikha
hi

 

stated that he miased Lyubimov emendously both office-wise oersonally.
He was very fond of Lyubimov and often remarked what an intelligent young

 

man he wase . Lo
The conversation then turned to Costille’s recent vacation in Lapland.

' Golub again told Costille that he was not going to be able to take a
vacation this year as the new Ambassador wanted kim to remain in Helsinki.
Golub then stated to Costille, "I have heard that you speak fluent Russian.”
Costille stated that that was very complimentary but that he spoke about

_ a8 good Russian as Golub spoke English. Costille told him that he had -
studied Russian at the University of Galifornia and on his own but that
about all he could do now was understand and read some and that whet little
speaking ability he had was practically gone. Golub commented it was
good that Costille lmew some Russian and said that more Americans should
study it. Golub then asked why Costille was not trying to improve ‘his
Russien. Costille answered that he was trying to learn to speak Finnish.
and that it was too much of a chore to study two Languages at the same time.
Golub seid that what Costille needed was more practice in Russian and pro- |
ceeded to speak in Russien. In actuality Costille’s Russian has decreased
conalderably and he was able to easily convince Golub that his Russian was
far from fluent. As was mentioned in previous dispatches, Costille had .
never attempted to conceal from Golub the fact that he knew Russian. The
issue just never came up. Since Golub is fluent in Finnish, the common
Language automatically became Finnish. If we had realized thia Golub
contact was going to be so frequent, we would have made it a. point at the
first to be the one to tell Golub that Costille knows some Russian, Tis
might have made Golub a little suepicious, At the last meeting Costille
had mentioned to Golub that he had been studying Russian some. Golub -
did not respond, so evidently he either did not hear or understand Costille,

_ Golub asked Costille what other languages he had studied. Costille told
him he had studied Spanish in high school. Golub said that this was an
easy lenguage and not studied too much in the Soviet Union. After making
this remark, he quickly corrected himself and stated that a Large percentage
of the world spoke Spanish and that it was becoming a mich more popular |
language in the Soviet Union. Costille mentioned thet Rusaien had become
& very popular language in the States and that within the last two years
his bigh school in California, which was quite small, even was offering the
Russian lenguage. This seemed to impress Golub. .

; Git-essy ;

While speaking Russian to Costille, Golub began using the familiar form of
the language rather than the polite form which the two had always used, He
looked at Gostille and asked if it would bd alright to use first names,
When Costille agreed, he reached across 2 table and shook Costille’s

hand. He then told Costille that there was a new Cultural Officer in the
by the nane of who wanted to meet some young
officers, especially Americans. Golub stated thet he had

givon him Costijle’s name end that Costille would be receiving a written
invitation from Gegal to attend a showing at the Soviet Embassy of -a

& Ya Dé.
USE PREVIOUS EDITION. ©
- REPLACES FORMS. .
$1-28, 51-284 AND 51-29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

 

/ ‘pean cn ween
! : eet ee { ao eee
 

104-005-0197 _ oe - ae
moe 7 : st (WHEN FILLED IN). | 7 74 {~ ne A ar) eee
. fe . ad soot _JUTIN NID RECORD eure . |

 

 

  
    

ote 1. JUTING. Ai ECORD SHEET . C
‘FROM: . NOTE: in the absence of comments or indication of action
oe . : taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the :
. RID/ bie document is filed. ¢
COMMENTS
TO ROOM DATE OFFICER'S

| microriimeD |

i

i i
AUG 2T19x7 Ff
DOG. MICRO. SER. |

WE

~
cay

b
1.
SN
Al

iW

‘ ° 2
S
KN

©
7
CJ
(—

 

—
B
an ia
aw
ca<

 

 
     

 

TVRip yer

> ———— >

FILE NUMBER : |

Mgo[— /5/s'¢

DOCUMENT NUMBER

ENCL
NCLOSURE ABSTRACT

INDEX

 

i
ii

 
   

Jas

DATE MICROFILMEO

OFHA-03982

  

UARCD oma CLEP RIVER, CONW,

 
 

FORM USE PREVIOUS
“agp $108 “Eoitions
© . : - ote t :
. toe . > i . sm , wey Bo
7 . . ; : . ; (« . - ve . . : ewtion Ay ; ~
oe e -4 . :
~ « *

- us . « ~~ .
: DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

OFHA-3982

  

 
  

   
     
       
       
       
       
     

" CONTINUATION OF
‘” DISPATCH

Soviet: ballet film followed by a reception on 6 July. Costille said thet
was free that evening and would like to attend and meet Zegal.

    

he-

5. Golub also mentioned thet his wife was going back to the Soviet Union for a
: two months rest and vacation and that he was going to be a bachelor again for
thet period. He stated that he waa glad to get rid of her for a while beceuse
she "bothered™ him and that now he could bring home whom he wanted and do what
he wanted. He stated that since Costille and he were both bachelors they _
could "have some good times together". : ;

6. Just before the two parted after lunch Golub steted that he had heard from
Moscow about his report of what he termed "the Volodya incident". (See
OFHA-3819). He said that Volodya had bemn called in and properly chastized.
When Costille asked Golub what would happen to Volodya, Golub responded that
he Gidn’t know. Golub also stated that Moscow asked him how Costille was —
-able to deduce that his room was being searched at that particular time. _
Costille stated that it didn’t take en amateur detective to figure that oat.

- Golub laughed and agreed. :

     
     
       
       
       
   
     

7... Please:sée:reference A concerning the AEPAWNEE/5 and AEPAWNEE/S3 contact with
Golub. . ;
8. ‘The above portions of this dispatch were written on 1 July. It is now 7 July,
. end the reception mentioned in para four above never cams off. When first
inviting Costille to this reception, Golub made it quite certain that Costille
' was free for the 7th and made him promise to come. On Thuraday, 2 July,
Golub called Costille again to make sure he had not forgotten the date.
Gostille told him that as yet he had not received the official invitation
from Zegal. Golub stated that he would recelve it shortly. By Monday, the
day of the reception, still no invitation had been received. At 1600 Costille
decided to phone Golub to find out what had happened. Golub informed him .
then that the reception had been postponed until the Soviet Ambassador, who
is presently touring Finland, returned to Helsinki, Golub apologized for

not telling Costille earlier and invited Costille for lunch the next day,
7 June. .

       
       
     

.9. Lunch with Golub has. just been completed. He was more jovial. than we have
ever seen him. He admitted that he had been up all evening drinking with a
good friend and hedn’t fully sobered up yet. His first move at lunch was
to order vodka and beer. He again apologized for the mix-up on the reception
invitations but said that his Ambassador didn’t arrive back in Helsinki in
time. Hs promised to send Costille an invitation as soon as the date had
been confirmed. The lunch was spent mostly in polite, friendly conversation.
Golub remarked that now Mosaow had given him the authority to give Americans

“visas without prior approval from Moscow, He stated that this would make

-his job much easier, and as long as he was convinced the American was “all _..
right" he could give him his visa in a matter of minutes, When Costille
mentioned that he had a personal friend coming to Helsinki for a visit in
October, Golub stated that Costille should insist she see Leningrad and that
‘Lf Costille would bring her to the Soviet Embassy, he would give her a visa .

     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    

-ab once. ;

10. Golub then asked Costills to explain the "James Dean problem and the negro -
-problem in America to him. Golub stated that he personally did not like
“negroes and admitted that the Soviet Union also had a juvenile delinquency _
“problem ("stilyagi"). Golub mentioned that Khrushchev was coming to Finland

secon which always meant a lot of work for the Embassy. He then proceeded .
to talk about what a great, intelligent, but practical man Khrushchev was. -

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

11. =Golub also made some derogatory remarks about his wife, and how gled he was |

“that she had gone to Moscow, Returning from lunch, Golub insisted that
Costille stop by his apartment to hear some of his Russian records and have

, & glass of cognac, As they walked through the door, Golub, at the top of

\bis voice, in Russian yelled, "Is there any one home?” It is so nice not to

“\have anyone answer." Golub is.extremely proud of his record collection .
{which is small but includes some Chaliapin, Tchaikovsky and Prokoviev records.

“The apartment is quite large with many rooms, but all are quite sparsely
furnished, One or two rooms aren*t furnished at all. He has a small West

    
 

        

rman ay
Clown P|

“USE PREVIOUS EDITION. |"
REPLACES

Wo 51-28, 51-28A AND $1.29
oy WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

 

 
  

C

wt Magee '

 

~ TOISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

OFHA-3382

 

: ae
o- ‘ ZONTINUATION OF | | eee
* DISPATCH | a
German record player and a Soviet TV set in the living room. They spent.
about an hour in hia apartment, and Costille mentioned that he would have
to be leaving to go back to work. Golub promised to phone Costille soon,
Distributions
2- WE
2 - SR

 

at

Of - [5015G |

FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
1057: PLACES FORMS :
to 53a 51-28, 51-284 AND'51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

 

[Coene  [

ingress ee
