13-00000

 

‘y a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

- . for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-~ )

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
ae usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.
ot , As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying. him-
“a self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Gs Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there
was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week
but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the
technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera
at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused. film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and'to -
photograph ali Soviets, their families, al] foreigners, and cars with.
foreign license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties. . . -

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post: operators

from a tap of the Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

 
13-00000

 

  

an Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to. speak in Russian.

. There was some delay because Station. personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

- either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only.
these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

 
 

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man” was

being released by the Warren Commission. fEELYRI@was an alternate photo-

 

Purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

2

 
 

 

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage:
\ Feo methe time the Mexico Station was opened infAprt

   

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in (F955. the Station had
- developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. "ECK) consisted of multiline

 

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

 

AT) were placed by |

Inandied by a Station case officer. The number

 

 

 

 

 

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post
nearby and. the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
American recruited agents.

sites] were handled by a Station case officer

 

assisted by technicians on TDY. from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. fesey

fad sub-crypts under..project. LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LI YRICS

  
  
    

  
  

 

S.-i FIXER S'

 

Ebassieilacross the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

 

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

E2, IMPDET
CL BY 004645

 

 
 

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers-———~
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited

 

 

 

 

Mexican agent obtained selected letters

 

 

from a subagent | |

 

2. Liaison Coverage:

Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by
the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction
of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

Bre rel

» and corrupt. A Station

 

foreigners. Their agents were +

 

officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In

 

 

 

1958, |

 

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

 
13-00000

 

 

 

voy! was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

_ Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin- -

cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post. .
3. Oswald Coverage:
In mid-1962, the Mexican.officer in charge of LIENVOY (the
joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

‘bassies in anticipation of possible coverage. The Station immediately

disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so
that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their

taps. The Mexicans soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

_ Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish-lines, and one Yugoslav

line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included ina daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded, —
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

 
