 

 

[ng 10448-10326

 

via)

  

ns Take a vie

 

TC NTERNAL USE ONLY,

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 6
Tuesday - 28 March 1978

23, (Unclassified - THW) LIAISON Ken Geisen, DIA, called and
with regard to Representative Les Aspin's (D., Wis. } current trip to Europe
asked if we had any indication that the Congressman would be seeking meetings
with Defense attaches, He also asked what cover Representative Aspin was
using for his trip. I told Geisen that he was going under the auspicies of the
House Armed Services Committee and that he wanted a meeting with a couple
of country team representatives and that he might possibly seek a meeting
with Defense attaches but that he had not made any such requests to date,

| 24, (Unclassified - THW) LIAISON Galled Brian Atwood, State
Department, and mentioned my conversation with Hans Binnendijk, Senate

Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Foreign Assistance staff, regarding the

Committee's air balance study and asked if he would send us a copy. He
said he would be happy to and I arranged to have a courier pick it up
tomorrow morning. ,

25. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON In responge to her earlier
request and based on information provided by Bob Hepworth, C/CSS/NFA€,
I called Martha Tally, House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct staff,
and gave her the names of Edwin Reischauer of Harvard; Philip Habib,
former U, S. Ambassador to Korea; and Donald McDonald, East Strasburg
College, Pennsylvania, as suggested qualified witnesses that the Committee
may want to contact. The Committee jg planning hearings covering a historical
perspective of what events in South Korea caused that Government to engage.
in a large scale program to solicit U.S. support of South Korea and had
asked us to suggest qualified witnesses.

| 26. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Melanda, in the
office of Senator Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas), who inquired about tours of CLA for
constituents. I indicated that tours were not available but that we would be :
happy to provide a briefing for a group of constituents on the Hill.

27. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Dan Hardway, House Select
Committee on Assassinations staff, visited C&R Conference Room to
interview two current Agency employees. Notes were taken, will be
sanitized and then forwarded to the Committee.

 

b Sranks ETTneme

Rlo/s

 

 

 
