 

i
i
|
i
i
i
i
|
i
{

 

 
 
 

vr

  

‘received by TSD through higher echelons (Office of the Director

; quired.)

 

 

$ wiay 1973

 

{EMORANDUM FOR; ‘Deputy Director for Science & Technology :

SUBIECT ot ‘ISD Support to Other Agencies

1. Technical Services Division's charter (CSI 1-8) requires
that it provide technical assigtance to both CLA operations and
other activities as inay be directed by the Baputy Director for
Operations, :

‘

2. Over the years the chief non-CIA recipients of this
support have been the Department of Defense, the Federal,
Sureau of Investigation, Bureau of Narcetics and Dangerous
Drugs, Immigration and Natucalization Service, Department :
of State, United States Postal Sarvice, Secret Service, Agency. ~
for Internati nal Dé lopment, « and the White House. Ss

   

   
  
  

    
  
 
   
   

 
  
 

stances participation: athe flelda of audio and visual surveillance;
secret writing and relited communications, personal protection, 7
alias documentation and questioned document examination, disguis

electronic beaconry, illicit narcotics detec
tien, and counter-sabotage/terrorism.] :

4. (in most instances requirements for this support are

or Deputy Director for Operations). Unless the service involved
is a trivial or continuing one, the request is referred to the
Foreign Intelligence Staff Departmental Coordination Group for °
coordination and approval at the appropriate Agency levels.
Approval within TSD by the’ Chief of Operations or Development
and Engineering and the: ‘Chief of TSD or his Deputy also is re-

 

§. The attachment lists the » primary: services 2,
the organizations named in Paragraph | two.

    

 
104-10303-10008

 
     

 

   

 

 

*
ry Gottlieb
f, TSD
to stow fron vhom
ter each conient)
DDS&T
x ween

- SEREF 09213

 
 

fom GTO “ime (] secret (C) conripenriat ([] (MIERNAL =) UNCLASSIFIED

 

4

 
 
 
 

 

     

\
\

See

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Stes

 

 

7. Unless ordered otharwise by higher Agency authority, Oo
HO “UTS documentation is issued by TSD Headquarters without
prior coordination with the | Office of Security and the Central
Cover-Stafl.. TSD/Regiona nal Bases. require at least.the valida~—
tion of U.Sr documentation: requests by the COS, or his

_ designated representative, of the requesting Station. Because
it could be used-in o¢der to obtain/

[ 2d
issued by Office of Security, not TSU.
; x4

' 8. Provision. of; documentation to. non-DDO- requeaters,
whether” they be-CLA-or other [seer requesters, always require:

 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

approval of na: ‘SD. offices. {i Support to the military. for instance ~
4 would be validated by Fi Staff

epartmental Coordination Group
i

at Headquarters: or by the COS overseas having responsibility for
coordination of the operation. BNDD requests are coordinated

RR

   

  

Ig be returned to TSD or accounted for. After any documentation hag
been issued, TSD retains photographs and records of such support iv

\
until the documentation has been returned to TSD. If the material I

is not returned after a reasonable time, the requester is reminded ;
of the outstanding documentation. ] cape ee yi

     
   

   

 
