 

 

 

E,

F

 

' Communication is primarily whtn LIONION~-1; with LIONION-2 only in his
absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls
from LIONION-1L go through a telephone cut-out) » are usually held at the ©
LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment, which would appear to be a LIONION-1
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIO? technician,

-Hugh T. FRANCOITE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week.. The Case Officer,
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 knows
the. true name of the Case Officer, he does not Imow FRANCOTTE's true identity.

Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents ‘are uncovered by Mexican
authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed
to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JMWAVE
area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering
their income. This would probably hold. up unless they were caught in flagrante
with the KURIOT automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such

 

_ refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization.

In any event, LIONION~1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protection
enabled him to weather the tax investigation and can be used by him to overcome any

“future difficulties with Mexican authorities. on

Under Mexican law, the principal (photographic) activity of the project is
not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not of
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually possible to stave off
investigation or house search for a period of time sufficient to remove compromis-
ing material from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completely
in one evening and could again be cleaned, probably in less tine » if circumstances
should warrant.

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.
On one oecasion AMKNOB-1, a JMWAVE asset, was. shown a nearby building (not the
LIONION base) by a PBRUMEN Embassy | officer.and told that it was a KUBARK photo -
base.

LIONION-1 is known by sight to some PBRUMEN Embassy staff personnel who have
observed him in the neighborhood. Presumably they helieve he is a Mexican. To
avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the
PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURIOL in separate
correspondence to prepare new passports for both LIONION agents so that they may
travel outside Mexico.

Security measures employed in this operation are designed to make it virtually
impossible for any opposition service to link LIONION personnel. with the Station.

Coordination. Coordination with other PBPRIME elements or the Mexican government

is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged.

 
 

G. Costs. ‘The total annual cost of Project LIONION is $10,478, dictributea
(a8 shown below:

 

 

FY 65. FY 66 Rotel

LIONION-1 salary . oe
13 months: @ $320 Co, ‘$1920 $e2ho $h160 ©

5 ETONTOH-2 salery a
a 13 months @ $150: 900 1050. +~—«-1950

Real estate rentals: .

 

LIONION Basehouse’ 600°. 600 1200

LICNION Safehouse : 26h B64 528

Utilities on oth houses : “150 150 300
‘Supplies : . ‘1170 1179 23ho

 

(Photographic film, paper,
chemicals, and miscellaneous)

; Totals: $500: = $5k7h = S1oW7S

 

Salaries for LIOHION-1 and -2 include the customary year end
bonus of one month's salary. LIONION-l's sdary was raised from $200 to
$320 monthly in 1964 to compensate in part for his renunciation of a
. sales position in order that he might devote his full time to the LIONIGN

~ operation. LIONION-2's salary has retained at $150 per month since her
\ recruitment in 1961. Ho salary changes are contemplated during the
i project year.

 

 
 

 
  

 

Lawrence F. BARKER

STATION ____ Mextco City 7 CHIEF OF oo tele

Willard ¢. CURTIS

CRYPTONYM | LTONTON __. _. BIELD CASE OFFICER. Laurus eA

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval.

 

art te meee
oRGu? t
Excluded tram tontt :

ope EY & CSP acta |

PATI pe he taal,

   
104-10444-10361

 

we Le Car

  
   

PROCESSING ACTION

   
 
   
 
   
  

CLASSIFICATION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WH Division

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

    
 
 
   
 
   
 
      
   
  
       
     
      

 

   

Chief of Station, Mextco City |
suBECT - °:
Project LIONION.
ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES :

Reference: EMMN-15207 > a December 1964

  

  

1. Attachea by split transmission is. an outline for Project LIONION
covering the services of the two agents heretofore known as LIFEUD-22 -
(201-28821.8) and LIFEUD-23 (201-305604). This project was anticipated in
paragraph 4, page 9 of the LIRANCH project outline transmitted by Refer.enre.

“2, To avoid re-typing at Headquarters the Station has taken ‘the Liberty :
of provisionally assigning cryptonyms LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 to ‘these agents.
Please advise if this is correct. : : . Co

  
    
  
 

Janrsuee : Ez / Raskin

Willard ¢, CURTIS in

 
 

   
    

Attachinent : .
| Project Outline, left side h/w
L Project Outline, right side use

| Distribution:
| 3 -- C/WHD w/att
|

   
 

 

6 January 1965
HQs FILE NUMBER

_{50-6-122/1

 
  

  
 

 

 

AS

Be

   

Att te Hina. ASHo
PROJECT LIONION - 6 Fane. 646

‘Identification. This is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance
- operation against the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City.

Objectives. The operation is designed to (1) furnish photographic coverage
during daylight hours of the entrances of the target installation, (2)
dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the
target, and (5) keep in readiness a listening post for the monitoring and.
recording of eventual. technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PBRUMEN Embassy compound (including
Consulate) in Mexico City. The above-listed objectives are accomplished by
‘two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street from
the target. oe . : :

The project is in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1, of the
current Related Mission Directive for Mexico.

Background. This project, herewith presented for approval for the first time,
does not represent a new operation. LIONION activity has been going on since
1962 and costs: have heretofore been charged to PBRUMEN FI funds. ‘The
operation produces photographs of persons associated with the PBRUMEN Enbassy,
both staff and visitors. These photographs are normally reviewed for identi-
fications by the PBRUMEN section at the Station, then shown separately to
LITAMIL-9} and LETAMIL-7 who are péfiét¥ation agents working inside the target.)
They are subsequently forwarded to the CI section of WH/SA where they are shom
to PBRUMEN intelligence defectors ‘AMNIP-1 and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whon
they are routinely shown, LITAMIL-9 has to dete made the largest number of
identifications. The photos have!proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of a new Eubassy staff member his photograph is in the hands of the ;
Station; In addition to the identification of staff and visitors » the photos
(accompanied by a log kept by the, LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action
(arrivals and departures) and details of personal associations (who associates
with whom) which are of great value to tne Station in mounting operations against
the target. _ | .

1

 

 

 

 

 

|
’ . In addition to photography, LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 are often called upon
to do visual surveillance of the target installation and LIONION-l is essential
to the dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance team against individuals
associated with the target. Because of the presence of police patrol cars in
the vicinity, the Station's mobile surveillance assets cannot come close to the
target, hence the need for LIONION-l's dispatching services.

The presence of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 also insures continued occupancy of
a valued piece of real estate which will be used as a listening post when the
Station succeeds in installing additional technical surveillance devices in the
target in the form of concealed radio transmitters. . :

 
 

 

 

oTeage * 4, . \

 

D. Operational Assets (Personnel). |

LIONION-1 is a young PBRUMEN lawyer in exile. He left PBRUMEN in 1960,
planning to continue on via Mexico to the United States where he resided in
‘his early years. His two brothers are American citizens » one a desk officer
-in the Department of Commerce in Washington, the other a police official in
Tempa, Florida. While in Mexico LIONION-1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to
perform PBRUMEN operational support services for the Station and, once having
a taste of clandestine activity, decided to remain in Mexico. LIONION-2, (His)

was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2, as a basehouse occupant and ,
operator in the LIFEAT /LIERODE teghnical operation aimed at the PBRUMEN
Enbassy. At this same time LIONION-1 also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and
the two worked together as a team. In.1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked
together in processing the take of the LIFEAT /LIERODE/MKTRAP installation, now
known as LIOMEN. At this time their cryptonyms were changed from LILILY-1 and
@ to LIFEUD-22 and 23, respectively. -In the latter part of 1962 the two agents
began the present photographic surveillance operation.

 

. _LIONION-1 was granted an OA on 18 May 1962 by HMMW-10664. He was
LCFLUTTERED on 8 October. 1963, HMMW-1206). °

LIONION-2 was granted an OA on 16 May 1962 by HMMH-10660.

LIONION-1 is the mainstay of the operation. LIONION-2 acts as his assistant
and fill-in at such times as he is absent from the observation post. Both serve
principally as observers and photographers. LIONION-1 also acts as a dispatcher
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team from which he is compartmented. Dispatching
is done by radio using pre-arranged innocuous code terminology; the team does not
know LIONION-1 or his precise location. LIONION-1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Bubassy gate through final printing, croppin
and mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is processed through th
negative development stage. :

Control is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of
the agents, that as PBRUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might
be brought upon them by KUBARK througii the Mexican government should they get out
of line. Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and violent aversion
to, and determination to bring about the downfall. of, the AMTHUG regime. An
additional notivating factor is that both agents actually enjoy what for many woul
be monotonous work. Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort of work

Both agents realize that they are working for PBPRIME intelligence; LIONION-1

appears to is working for KUBARK. wy ized by LIONION-
is that of LIONION-1 passes as ai who can afford
to dabble without notable success because amr. oldings in

Tampa, Florida (inherited from his deceased father), which enable him to live as
a "rentista," one who lives on income from sources other than gainful employment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican government. In October 1964
this cover successfully withstood intensive investigation by Mexican authorities
checking on persons of questionable status far tax collection purposes. The

Station plans to bolster thd renee with supporting documents from a
[sent in New York City; these will be requested in separate correspondenc

 

 
