 

'
3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message
regarding k'm from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
|
|
i

 

 

  
 

a“Willard 'd@ ANDREWS, xeputable American businessman in Mexico," :
who obvicusly had had contact of some kind with CAIN,. es well as with °
a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that f
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. Ul (Acopy of this memo= Lor
yandurn is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces
on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained re gare
ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, hora claiza |
he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substentiated. ‘he
Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitirnate detective
: laboratory in Chicago.

Pasmgeeme

  
 
 

 

j }
, efoto
t .5. The first time CAIN came to the attention of the Secutity Office \- }
H was when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their xequest H
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which ;
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches i in i
Ghicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico 3
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police . i
i

methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector; - .
and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed
1 Central American country.

 

. . a s oeetenemmmee Ta
6. %n June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being }
deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations: ;

ome

a, Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knucHes

a !

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official :
(He had identification as an inv estigator for the | |
:

Mexican Treasury Office. ) .
. :

eter ated te 6 cermteeN RRE

|

 

 
 

Li
ICE Co cee .. Sate so
4

4 ei coe | a
* *

. . . “4 ”
“: « UNITED STATES COVL “MENT : {

!
Memorandun- cD , . |

To ? Chief, SRS. DATE: 9 October 1967
. Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

FROM = M. D, Stevens

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S. ,
F272 lai ,
{

TREF: . ‘
i 1, Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo- ‘
i vandum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS !
{ mernoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of =|

 

. memorandum dated 29 May 1967, The 5 June 1967 memorandum
enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago

| Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with
_ the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee

‘Harvey OSWALD, et al." : ;
; 2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of informatien |
i regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President |
4

? Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

i held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard

i CRILEY (#346 116), He also was the source of information regarding

» the alleged attempted recruitment into the Gommunist Party of young

; Gubans in the Chicago area by one Guille » who accord- ‘

i ing to the Chicago office was “one o. {SAS) leads

j obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Pr ably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)

I SPEED i The documents also indicated ;

: that in Fe! was the subject of a conversation initiated coat
i by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the bcs

| Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
; CAIN was in fact on a twoemonth's sick leave from the COOK County
! Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on 2 political under

! cover assignment which CCHEN inferred involved tapping the tele~

i phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other

} political figures, .

 

 

 
 

we eee

ve

7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in September
1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his bsing asked
to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On ;
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
much of the above information on CAIN.

   
   
 
     
  

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he
had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafi
in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted fox information
as to whether or not they ever established Contact with him and, if so,
‘ox what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25
ay 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN
ince 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had
een the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban
ctivities, procurement of arms, etc, , .

    
   
   
   
 

-" 9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a
current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that
there be no further contact with him at this time.

“40. The September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains aa
article titled "Brazen Empire of Organized Crime," in w/hi h it is
stated that’Sam ICANA? Head of the Chicago Cosa Nostra, is "stint

GLANCAN. N
running Riese te-control from a hide-out in iM axICO. . . where

aw yhe poses as. Biccardo'S¢ CALZETTIN The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's

erst while chauffeur dnd courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently
@ private investigator," .

 

i
7
i
i
i

 
 

. area,

 

1
!
}

t
'
t
1
'
{

 
    
         
  

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September
articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst
while chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,
of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana

Quo Sto
_ M. D. Stevens

Attachments: articles

MDS/cer
