714-00000 |

FSI, in his management.

 

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: The Wackenhut Corporation
3260 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

i. Mr. Bannerman, Security Office, arranged through Chief,
CCS for the writer to meet Mr. Geor,  Wackenhut, President of
subject, to explore its potential for cover| support. At 10:30
a.m., on 14 March 1963, Mr. Wackenhut, Mr. Wes Reynolds, and I
met at Mr. Reynold's home, 3809 37th Street, Horth, Arlington. -

My. Reynolds epparently represents Wackenhut in the Washington

area, although I did not gather that the firm is. actually
operating here at present. Mr. Wackenhut end Mr. Reynolds, both,
are ex-FBI agents.

2. Waeckenhut started his firm in 1954. In 1961 it was
reported to have 1100 employees and anticipated 1961 sales in
excess of $5 million. At present it has offices in Miamt,

Coral Gables, Tampa, Jacksonville, Philadelphia, New York. City,
Boston, Buffalo, Denver, Los Angeles, San Jose (Celie. }, Honolulu,
Sen Juan and Ponce, Puerto Rico. Wackenhut freely states that _
he trades on the reputation of the FRI by publicizing widely the
21 ex-FEI agents, including two former Assistant Directors of the

3. The Operating Divisions of the company and their services
are described in e Wackenhut brochure as follows:

investigative Division .

Performs all types of investigations for attorneys, insurance
companies, benks and other businesses; sets up internal audit
systems to prevent embezzlements, and investigates persone) back-
grounds of prospective executives, business partners end associates.

Scientifie Services Division

Conducts pre and post-employment, pre=-promotional and 1 gpect-
fie lie detector exeninations for business and industry; speciel-
izes in technical security and investigetive techniques, scientific
detection dévices, and electronic and mechanical security methods
and equipment, and performs electronic "sveeps' to counter business
espionage through the detection of electronic intrusion attempts.
[tomo] a oo, ,
"Cp uwciassietep |] ERMA [] CONF’ "=NTIAL BA secret
of ~ ion SE TEE CN pay, |
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: {Optional

Tm en hee

 

EXTENSION:

 

26 MAR 1553

TO. (Officer designation, room ber, and 7 —T : -
building) “er "8 ™ nue OFFICER'S. COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from who
INITIALS. to whom. Draw a: line: across. column: after each comment,

 

1. Office of Security
(Attn: Mr. Bannerman) QRS For your information
G-E~31 :

au
BA odode nist . a”

 

 

 

—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

            

oO 7 aa EF ] UNCLASSIFIED

 

sor 610 “tomere’* PQ secret [[] CONFIDENTIAL
1400000 5

and edueational programs.

 

Internal Intelligence Division

Spectalizes in exposing and controlling inside thefts that may
renge from employee pilferage, through embezzlement of thousands of
dollars, to highly valuable industrial seerets.

Central Clearing Division

Assists personnel and security directors to sereen quickly
the backgrounds of present end potential employees through the
messive files of The Waekenhut ‘orporation.

Retail Store Protection Division

Increases net profite by reducing inventory shortages through
the control of internal end external losses with security prograns
designed to meet the client's speeific needs.

Training Services Division -

Provides specialized training programs for security, fire
fighting, investigative and other personnel of business orgenize=
tions and professional grows.

industrial Security Division
Provides the essential security services that are required by

all companies seeking or handling government classified contracts;
assists management in disaster and emergency planning.

Fire and Safety Division
Supplies ambulance services, first eid erews, Wackenhut fire-

men fully trained in the technical field of industrial and mmi-
cipal fire fighting and equipment, and safety surveys, systems,

 

* Guard Forces Division

Selects, investigates, trains and supervises the uniformed
and plein-clothes guards who protect your operations; also provides
uniformed receptionists and guardettes; makes physical property
surveys to determine security requirements and establishes security
systems and controls.

4. Me. Wackenhut wants to expand abroad, in view of his
successful venture into Puerto Rico. However, he has no definite
plens as of the present and seemed to be seeking

for entry into areas of interest to us. He is pre-

 

 

a |
pared to furnish personnel himself] ks

5+ It is not apparent to me that there is any significant
market for Wackenhut's services in foreign countries, except
possibly among American businesses with physical plants overseas.
The nature of these services, I would presume, would make rather
difficult acquisition of the necessary occupational permits in
many countries. The potential for clandestine intelligence acti-
vities would be too 2pvious to host governments, and the emphasés

, me
Keen

Cee)
 

-3-

on former FBI personnel probably would enhance such suspicions,
particularly in Latin Anerica where 'FBI" means "intelligence"
since ita WW II activities there.

6. CCS/NC on occasion receives requests for advice to busi-=
ness orgenizations ag to setting up security systems eat overseas
installations. We recently referred a request of this type,
involving « major oll company, to the Physical Security element of
the Security Office. Conceivably, the Agency might make some
arrangement to advise Wackenhut of such requests, providing our own
Security Office is satisfied as to Wackenhut's competence. [We >t

 

could then

 

af desired,

 

mt 6 company succes

 

secure the contract.

7. Waekenhut seid he would be willing to dispateh teams to
‘set up personal security systems for foreign chiefs of state :
whom the Agency wants protected. He is amenable, in fact, to any
reasonable application of his capabilities to Agency problems.
He would be willing to negotiate financing in equitable propor~
tions in the event an overt operation, set up at Agency behest,
were not financially self-susteining.

8. Wackenhut impressed me as a clean-cut, energetic, ambitious
young business man who is obviously proud of what e 8 to be
a@ superior organization of its type. He is interes’ profits,
but it is my impression he is sincerely eager to do what he can to
essist the government and feels that CIA offers one possible oppor=
. -tunity. Incidentally, he appears somewhat younger in. person than
in the pictures appearing in the promotional material given the

writer.

‘9. Copies of this memorandum are being furnished those Agency
- components which might have an interest in utilizing subject com-
peny. Inguirles may be directed to the writer.

FRED BR. YOUNGBIOOD
Chief, cCs/m
