74-0000

 

 

coe

 

 

 

Subfect: Apparent sas .ntercet in |

wel] Telephone Lau:

   

vr wore nousacts wlth Jog. ee ba bed null
reeetved « hate frou ¥o poptasticy Ghat ae
ing to the USSR 4. order thet ule wile coud
there. Incidentally, guly other
dn Lyte waen he met aim tn Copeuhagen ot a prot

6 C__] saza that vet, bf nos ala. of Yolg.n'* phous:
to hha were to his fnwae and usually sppenrea te have been wade
pay phones. sefd thot ofu meethegs witn Beda k i
lunches and dinners in Munhattan, woe Bnd. tk at a liw
Meeting, theutes, ti ontertatnument o£ each othes ip
homes . wialag that hia wife nowrmpanted hin
his contact with Yolyin. Other tin to aig mn faaliy, Volgti. never
tntreduced_________| to any other Uiudviduals.

   
       
 

    

 

fh tee Be
Oo ame Rat ae See
weeitel mer b cape

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Te Mple of cacashuns te

unclassirie tect fp ¥ They
enginecr. r wether Tolgdn spectthe
the informtion or whether ine turn: rd it over te tran 4 i
At one point during their relationship, Volgin enked
an article on US acoustics work, for publfeation | to
Journaly declined.

  
  
  

 

  
 

   

iad t dative.
te alte

 

 

 

 

3. In retrospect admitted that he Lid been quite natve
about his relationsnatp with Volgin and expressed convern that onc:
security hadn't bee: nore ective in adaouishing hin ¢-edinst devel p-
ment of relationship: with Sov Guverwient representatives. His view ”
of his experiences i.o4 tompietely cotneidec with crs ns a resuly of
our discussion.

 

 

‘

 

 

 

 

 

9. Another fector wulel vbviously enters Late hele
picture in ble wife's Swgarian catraction. MAT tha

neither he non tc the best of WS Ghowldge, GEC WEF have ever been
approached by Sovbloc ‘representatives in thi. countey conceming hie
wife's faatly ti. Pulygaria. [ie wile 's mother, iwi Mengckik
dumigrated to the UC tn April lao and Lived with tak bis
wife until November i162 when she returset to Soria, apparently because
she was homesick and souldna't niguct to the new language and life in
the Us. raid that hic mot dielas's orlgtanl exit vise
request was rejected ( in 1950 by tur marian Government, but after he

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

‘and his wife wrote severe) letters to the Bulgirian Foreign Miaaotry

un to leave in 160.

 

she was finally granted permis:

SECREI

— gensiriye «= 70.6 Zak.

 

 

2
1
‘
74-00000

 

 

SECRET

SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest io Cs

- Bell Telephone Labs

 

 

 

Le \ .
10. After! visits the USSR on his current trip, he
Plans to fly to Sofia to spend approximately a week vith bis wife's

 

 

? “finaly there. a had not me Bulgarian visit in
outlining his or: tirerary to of this office, there-

fore, it vas not mentioned in Coordination Outline.

il. All of the above would seém to indicate quite strongly that

 

 

briefing we ran through soms of the typical entrapment
situations fabricated by the opposition, e.g., women, homosexuals,
purthese of drugs for Sov citizens, black market activity, acceptance
of letters to mail outsids the USSR, Sotohed Dee fesainne Sova,
etc. In addition, we stringently admonished against any
notetaking or photography which could in any way be construed as com-
promising. We also alerted to the fact that some attompt
might be made to use his .7ife's family as leve in a recruitment
attempt. In this “connection,. we pointed out tobe) that there
was a strong likelihood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian service would
make an approach to him during hia forthcoming visit to Sofia. An
approach in Bulgaria would give the Sovse an opportunity for disavowal
and also would provide the proper setting for maximum utilization of

 

 

 

 

- relatives. When|_] mentioned that his sister-in-lav, FNU

had indicated several times in the past that she vould like

- €oleave Bulgaria, we strongly admontehed him against making any com-

mitments to her, pointing out that she may possibly be co-opted by
the opposition. We told that any representations to gain
an-exit visa for his sister-in-law ahould be channeled through the

US Legation in Sofia, ["] wae told that, if any pressure were
applied concerning his wife's family, his best reaction would probably
be a noncommittal, "I'll think it over when I get homer" All in all,
we alerted[ ———sdjas best we could to the opposition M.0. and pre-
pared him on how best to avoid some of the not so obvious pitfalls
which might be in store for hin.

12. Prior to our briefing of — alerted Bell
management to all of the ramifications of travel behind

the Curtain. The management was informed by| that we felt_it
our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that

 

 

 

 

 

had been targeted in order that they would have all of the facts avail-

able before signing off on his trip.

“SECRET:
crncirup 72 O72

aa we originally surmised, hao been targeted by R.I.3. In -

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

Appacet. PS Uoteress (a Manse. la et eat,

ACLP ped oake. .

2. Apparently A.2.5. Malhdvation oF wie
grhior to the ateve ineident. Aecording te bis wot vat. ae hua:
ceived vhat appeared to ve a routine tavitavioa te viet : ‘
Acoustics “icilities tm Moseor 4 Leacgad In Ag
connectioa with the invilsticn, ue wrote. tc un. Sov.
timt during his visit he wo uid Line to at
Sov acoustics engineer wag wan very Cnter
and nnd dure sever. Russlan transi itloug of wan te
@ result of this corres

 

 

   

     

ve

Pate et

 

 

    
  

 

    

 

ub his hoa prior tenis
nidividunl eae be de
ea we les

 

 

 

 

Bor velivery:
of the ctate Coat
ealler, Whose TAL %
Like te delive=
C7 tative
whteh he bad t.
tio cow dats
Lastruct los were
Paneliy agreed te
up the tuyitst loa.
tay
the latter decal
an area claged vy Ser
the Sov arranged to tout Seni. 6 oh oe
Chathaa, New Jersey, aac 2b that tune thou dove:
Yor her husband. * +

 

 

 

 

       
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  

sad Saat
sat ty

   
    

 

 

Es

 

 

 

Sle

 

 

 

     

 

2k Said that his .Ju>
routine and that A: call recall nothing out
during the trip. ering tl. “4, nis
speaks fluent Geraan, ncted
continually.

5. Csonet iar

 

 

 

    

  
   
 

received 4 Be BS
éne evening from i weiried
sentative of Amt aognld that o
Purduev had just congl eted a@ Vaslt to lew Yorg ain.
i eity had assed hin. to deliver a present to
i the phone call. Yolgin insisted on deliverine th Feesent te
in person, and the two de arrangements to have can cothe ie
following week in Manhatten. ‘This began « ovstes of as proxiaate Ly sir

 

 

 

  

 

 

    
     
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

SECREI . .
— SNSITIVE «= 72 6

sda

te heme

 
14-00000

 

ee eee yy nag antares tata a ee ate

were eee

 

epg near mg meme re eg tn gem a

la (
he 19 0930-1230 hours 14 June, cv Beli Labs :

 

HOT oat Pees ce
we

UNEDE EY SENET Fatre ba Ab

Memorandian

 

Yo 2 Chisi, Conltacy Divicion vAIE. 26 Jue i
Attn ¢ Support [— C.F wee
BROAL Chler, Gsilee uo wot

stnper: CApparenat KIZ Interest Ln ours) : 1
11 Telephone lau:'>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\
1

 

received a strong defensive briefing in conection with his June- “
July trip to the ssh and maria (geo one 7 vay Coordination Out-

line for subject)* puri briefing, alleited

from him that prior to a trip to tae USSR in 1959 he bad been en-

tacted by an individual. vho represented hinsel? as u West German

Intelligence Officer. More importunt, we else learned that, ut Q
about the same tlie, RIS cultivation o: Spparently began. :

  

 

 

 

 

 

f. 2. Concerning the West German approach, [|__| indlented
that his mother, who resides in Hambury, wa. welephoned in 195% by '
an individual who cleised to be an old acqun.invance of her son's
and who was interested in contacting hia concerning employment in
the US. The caller left a phone uumoe~ ond rafi that he would ap-~
préciate 1b if eould call hin nex. tua: he was iu Hasburg.
mother reLayed the message vo kre con, end, os requested,
he telephoned the caller just nrivr to his iy$, USUR junzct. The
individual he called identiried himself ar «1 deas n inte) Ligence
Officer and_said that he would like to we2 aG coon as
asible. agreed. When thoy ob, tac individunl in question
does not recali his name) pr id auitable credentials
and expressed interest in wrip £9 tar USSR. According ta
account, the West German Invelligence Offieer gave him the
old “keep your cyes and vars open” pitch, and 4.14 him that he would
contact him in the iiret West German city wie he touched down
after his USSR trip. [| Was convacted in Stuttgart promptly
after returning to Germmny from the an his way puck to the US.
Because of his US employment anc the fact that Zell paid tor his trip,
became very apprehensive about any further contact with the
West Germun service and et the time of the call indicated tact he nad
nothing to cay and waate?d no further sorvact. Other tuen the cursory
examination of credentials (us reported above), de no
attempt to establich the Lona fides of the Geryin who mad: vhe approach.
We pointed out to the unlikely possitility taat the appreach
might not have been vona fide and might, In fuct, uave been a provo-
cation.

%e a ae) Oe te eleed.

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

‘germmes  SECReT

‘UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

-Memorandum

To : Chief, Contact Division pata: 1 July 1963

atta: (tncoln stare

FROM : cater, | Office . ,

 

SUBJECT! Attempted R.1.8. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs
Ref: [_] Reports 2968-3 ang 2989-3

 

i. We thought the attached reporta would be of interest to Lincoln
Staff from a Soviet realities standpoint. We also felt that they should
be brought to the attention of Division management because the M.0. out-
lined therein is becoming s mJjor factor in dealing with sources who have .
contact with Sovbloe nationals. It has been our experience that the type
of activity outlined haz been on a mrked increase, particularly since
the establishment of the KOB 10th Directorate. Although such activity
by Sov Legale is taking place throughout ntal U.3., undoubtedly
ite greatest impact is being felt in the and Washington, D.C.
“areas because of the larg: Soviet Government establishments ia both of
the fes. For this reason 1t would seem imperative that both WAFO
and be extremely vigilant for such activity in companies and insti-
tutions with which they are dealing in order that it my be recognized
in its earliest stages and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted.
In order to assist other offices in this respect, ve plan to vrite in the
near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our
experiences along these lines.

2. We vere somewhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our
recent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the aubject of

one of the attached reports. It seems to be quite clear now that our
original assumption concerning his being H.I.8. targeted was quite correct
and that there to a strong likelikood that his current trip behind the
Curtain will be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an
actual recruitment attempt. We wonder in future cases of this nature
exactly whet support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we
feel that ve have a fair capability for handling such matters here in

 

we do admit that, at least on this one, we would have felt

 

 

 

8 more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other
reason than to preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the

/O067R

_ SECRET. otra

Bertecltasiton
 

 

  

 

emer
Bee
t

Subject: Attempted R.I.8. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

3. Judging by the attached material, it would appear that, despite
established Bell ‘policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the
opposition has seen fit to deflower at least two of Bell's scientific
virgins. We serfously wonder at this point just how many other Bell
people. might be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this,
some representation by Bell management to the KOB will be forthcoming,
spelling out..to that organisation, as was spelled out to our own, estabd=
lished company policy pertaining to such mtters. In any event, it would
appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably
more, have been giving the 8.1.8. more cooperation and reporting than the
Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some
effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous,
situation. : -

 

 

 

 

Attacheents: Reports 2988-3

 

 

Se [O62

Po SECRET

z

 
 

 

 
 

[og t0206-10117

MATERDAL REVERED Ab CEA HEADQUARTERS BY

 

HOUSE SELECT COMMUTTED ON ASSASSUNATIONS SCARE ER

FELE-TLTLE/NUMBER/VOLUME 7D

  

 

 

INCLUSIVE DATES: VG QEC, _ :
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: ___. _ __ ;
ROOM: __ 7

ean .

DELETIONS, IF ANY: y/LD Ag eLC! enaC/A
t

 

DATE jATE : ; |
RECEIVED | RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) [{ SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIA

 

 

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE

  
74-00000

 

 

UNCLASSIFIED. INTERNAL C) conFipenriat (C} secrer

SVIB pO

 
  

 

   
  
  
 
 
  

 

  
 

oer in en tet atten

duly 1963

bate
30

    

  

COMMENTS (Humber sock commen to show Hom hum
Lo whom, Draw @ line cures column ater ach Chorin

 

i

Jif! 2 Tots Anfermation was sent to
"Cl stare recently snd hag
orohably keen forwarded to vO"
for renly, Thourh vou mist
he able to use this extrs ROO.

  

 

 
     
  

 

   

aes

   

att
ARTY
aaa

  
  

S ony A” VAS AL te |

Sclanucean OE eee & Shur
Oe gna ele as WIA a Yen, 7
Sov . Qua. L Sue |

v hha Nyce are oe ‘ee LB:

 

   
 
 

  
  

  

 

alas .

  
 
  
 
   

     

   
 

Fb den BO93
Soran fa 7 f

      
 
 

   

WIR Cy unciassiplep
C7 use Wo 7
74-0000

? J N . . .O
- cut SENSITIVE
C/OS4
Chief, Cl Uteff/L en) 5 duly 67
2 4g Hes \
Chief, Contect Division, 00

.! Atteugted AIS Menetration of Hell telesboas Laboratories ~ ul-10012

Le Attached exe tuo imaorenta, dated 26 June 1963, from

 

 

 

 

 

| / ear Fiald Offiea esate: Ris interest
he (do Bell Batephons
‘ Labousterica, Keareg 1112, TORY. believe ihte infoma-

ties stoulé be peesad to the FDI immediately. te would ap-
preciate baiag eGvised the date this information io furvented

to th Bpremte
. & For your infetmmtion, pemaisstcn to brief| .
price ¢o ie trip to the UBL ves

 

 

 

requested ty cur
Office tat refeesd by FI Staff. Ie view of hie exploymunt, bare
over, andi yrovicus CG/09. goutects with him, FI recomended ba
: be provided vith a ateung Gefensive end wealitics briefing.

3. Peartinoy Lgatry Bey, may be directed to

toe. Od
423, 1717 8 Predera “ye We, extension

- wee ne ey ee ” 7

 

i stelaieee mosey om ae . ~ .
aC arn | £3 C07 joo- S71.

SECRET seucmue /LL/ (LL

a “
t +
hk

'

H

t
