 

s  eecnmebomeniibteedaans canenamn delienndee cone

we

.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- CSCI-3/78), 888
languese, the poltical aituation, and has broken away from the narrow social
life “existh ag within the officlal Embasay family, There are suspicions that
MORO is an intelligence offcas.

3. The saine usually reliable source, ina 6 September 1963 report, ‘added the
fcllowing information concerning MORO: .

MORO {s a very hard worker and works with precision and accuracy,
Politically he fs a secure CASTRO supporter, but with intelligence and
moderation. He ts serious, perhaps excesaively reserved, but does act |
lack communication of the capacity to tnapire sympathy from both hig _
collcagucs at the Embassy and the Itailan's with whom he comes in contact.
He never speaks of his family. His commercial work at the Embassy
follows the normal office routine without any particular security treatment. .

’ Ris hirlng of technical personnel Is considered extremely clasatfied and he
refers these matters directly to the ambassador; no ons cise is authorized -
to have contact with candidates for work in his area, MORO does not use
an Gutomubiie with Corpy Gipwuatnd tags, probably for security reasons,
but instead drivea a Renault R-8 with temporary license ‘age which § are
valid for one year, :

Perez and Odina ROSAS Taleb both second secretaries at the Cuban Embaaey :
in Rome, have been lovers for sometime and live together at Via Cuboni 16
while MORO pretends to reside in an apartment on Via Archiinede.

ory

SECRET.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 

"

fF
 

104-10185-10156

2. #8

 

4

 

Tile wari n ortte see tales tent oe temting tte Malbemos Defense ited Biplane!

> OF Sew Fr aps “OA the Wer au lee 49 fotwAtiON 9 whch ip An. mR Y .
SECRET . %
é

GATE OF

miro.
nite &
Care xa

SOuece

fe

 

Pe —

v — . | dot 1

’ : ON OC]
ty. ae . . pene roe yeg COMPOS! Pen panoldoee
yo on nL

oe

fra (Pe weertig fire a mage Lape Pues
$8 AR em RENT YON oe oN ee be ee

   

COMTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a %

Revort HO. CSCI. Tal, 888 —

 

wo

Roberto Antonio MONO Perez + GATE DISTR, 18 Jone 1984

{pseudonym Rogel MORENO) NO. PACES «2
REFERENCES «= CSCI. 3: 781, @BSe rm

1964 ,

my aPeaAtS
Tons 18 + nev oe Seger ron 3c wouee a ripe) ast Deuanve a saat < oJ COTE bie 7

A fuemer Cuban 18 ofucer whe served with uie Cuban Jotellige nce ot
Service unt April 1964. - 3
Headquatters Comment The following report is one ofasernes. 9 po

‘containing “porsooanty ilormation provided by the source acd
includes supplemecatal mformation from the records of this Agency.

Richeria Antonio MORO Perez, pseudunym Rogel MORENO, the tient
secretary of bbe Cobar Bebossy in Rome, ig & Cuban lplelliyence

* Service offieer tn- the Dire eglgn § General ‘de Inteligencia (DGI- Géaérpf > stax

Directorate of Intelligence}, *s 3,4,

Heacquarters Comments ©” cy

1. According fo a. decument autea ze April 1993 from[an{—)
Roberto Antonio MORO Perez arrived in Rome on
28 March 19637acd, ss-of-) Apri] 1962, assurued the functious of
second secretary at the Cubun Embassy. . MGRO, whe is single,
resided af Yin Archimedes 80, American Palace Hotel, Hume. He
carried Cuban diplomatic pensport number D/63/136 which was
isaued In Habera on 23 February 1963. .

 

2. Ina report duted 28 May 1963 from a source who ts usually -
reliable, af was stated that Roterto MORO Perez, the second
secrtlary af the Cuban Embassy in Rome, 146 definitely
responsible for all commercial dealings a3 well aa the firing
of tecamical pergonnel, Source described, MORO as being one f
af the most active Euibassy officers and ay being very well ‘
Uked py the Culron Ambasgador, Leonardo FERNANDEZ Sanches,
MORO has adapted bimeelf fer more quickly to the foreiga
scene than other Embassy pcrasunnel because he studies the

SECRET fesse ooo
NO Fe FOREIGN DISSEM ewe.

ar 7T een

     
    

 

INO “PROJECT
~ [aAMMUG- 1) |

iaear tee” Tawca coma

 
  
  

SRE ou

a Rind ANT

 

“4 MCC LObo
ak Cr i ReS

con cae

 

  
