74-0000

 

but when it was established asked to be on it. He appreciated
the points on intelligence protection and recommended talking
to other members.

4. Mr. Blakey was with Chairman Stokes when we met with
the latter. Chairman Stokes expressed his appreciation for the
need to exercise care in conducting public hearings. Apparently,
not having been kept up to date by Mr. Blakey he said that we had
refused access to our agents, an impression that we corrected.
Although his statements were appropriate they were also
general and we emphasized the need for adequate lead time
in planning how to handle the matter. Representative Preyer
was interested in a series of specific questions. Most of
these questions arose out of the propaganda show currently under-
way in Havana. In addition to talking about .the sensitivity of
the telephone and photography operations, explaining how the
Warren Commission had handled the information, we also addressed
the questions of whether or not Oswald was the person who
went to the Cuban Consulate, the question of whether AMLASH
was a double agent, and the general line being advanced from
Havana as part of an attack on CIA. Representative Preyer was
clearly familiar with a number of the issues and asked for
our suggestions and help.

S. The meeting with Tom Latimer was to apprise him of the
fact that we were talking to members of the Committee and
trying to have those portions of the testimony that are sensi-

tive held in executive session.

 
[ng 10145-40332].
a ne

 

 

?

14 August 1978
OO RETURNYO CA >

“ Background Use Only

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD do Not Reproduce _

SUBJECT : Meetings with HSCA: Committee and staff Members

1. Messrs. McMahon, Hitz and I met on Friday afternoon
with Representative Devine, Chairman Stokes, Representative

Preyer of the HSCA and then with Staff Director Latimer of
HPSCI. Upon return to the Headquarters building Mr. Joannides
and I met with Mr. Cornwell of HSCA and with Messrs. Hardway
and Berk of his staff. This last meeting resumed early
Monday morning with Mr. Cornwell meeting with Messrs. Sturbitts
and Hawkins of LA Division, Mr. Shepanek, Mr. Joannides and
the undersigned. .

2. In the meetings with the three Representatives, Mr.
McMahon outlined our concerns over sensitive matters involved
in the Mexico City and Nosenko issues and requested that if
that subject matter is to be treated in the hearings that it
be in executive session. He made it clear that the treatment
of Nosenko by the Agency was not, of itself, subject to
sensitive security considerations; however, any discussion
of his bona fides and the sensitive information received from
him should not be exposed to publicity.

3. Representative Devine is clearly supportive. He

stated that he is opposed to “spreading defamation" of

Government agencies. He had opposed creation of the Committee

2R2AY g

   
74-00000

 

6. The meeting with Cornwell ran from about 1745 to
1930. It involved a discussion of files. We discussed our
requirment for a refinement and specification of the informa-
tion that they wanted from personnel folders. We took the
occasion to urge them once more to give some consideration
to a more orderly approach to doing business with us,
pointing out that the priority claims by independent
investigators @annot be honored in the absence of written
verification by the Staff Director. We agreed to look
into the question of the Mexico City history and asked that they
consider those elements that they really wish to see.
7. <At this morning's meeting I first described to
Mr. Cornwell the nature of the Proenza case. In response
a to his questions I ascertained and reported to him that the
Agency had no contact with Proenza, nor did we have any
record that she had been in contact with Lee Harvey Oswald.
Mr. Cornwell did not say that the information I gave him
would suffice, sowe may héar from him further on this.
I asked him to report the result of our discussion only
to Mr. Blakey and Representative Stokes.
8. We discussed the file of AMMUG, which Mr. Joannides
understands is now ready for review. The only Office of
Personnel file that we discussed was that of former, Agency

employee, Bill Harvey, now deceased. The period in his

 
74-00000

 

ae?

 

career in which they are interested is from the end of 1961,
when he was first assigned responsibility for the plot with

the criminal syndicate, through his service as Chief of the

 

Cuban task force and his period as Chief of Station
(the interest in the latter assignment being due to Harvey's
reported contact with Johnny Roselli). Arrangements were
made to use this file as a test case for reviewing OPF's,
discussing the problems presented and settling them.

9. The history presented a different problem. It is
almost entirely devoted to the history of the Mexico City
Station for the period[ 1947] until the late 1960's when it
was written. Only a few pages treat with Oswald : and the
questions arising out of the Warren Commission investigation.
Some of the facts concerning Oswald are in error, showing
his arrival in Mexico City the day before he got there,
with his departure being four days later than it actually
was. After one minor sanitzation, we agreed to show the
Table of Contents to Mr. Cornwell, without his taking notes,
following which he was to request those sections he was
interested in seeing. The sections that he requested are
on their face far broader than his area of authorized
investigation, which he was told. We undertook to review
these sections and then discuss with him the questions

presented by his request.

ce: SA/DDCI om rl “
DDO (Mr. Shepanek) . , 4
LA Division (Mr. Sturbitts)
OGC (Mr. Rininger)

S.D.. . Breckinridge

 

Distribution:
Orig. - OLC/Subject
1 - OLC/Chrono

°°

 
