14-00000

 

_., hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter~surveillances, “- oo

. .« GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for’ a

_ . other Station operations and acttvities,: GERENDE's comprehensive oon
‘area knowledge and personal operational. capabilities combine to make

C)
(

 

LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information
pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target
employees, He accomplishes this objective by careful
observation and analysis. LICALLA also maintains a daily
attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA
coverage of the target, both photographic and physical
‘observations, enables the Station to keep abrest of LIMERICK
personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter-.
espionage effort.

2. "To collect operational information and identify operational leads
pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP operation,
handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective, It

-has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform

pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The —
cases listed below are cited as examples:

 

 

a. In the case of ksee LA, 3,4 above)

LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of at his”
Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters

provided photographs, left no doubt that | was the
subject of interest to Headquarters. . :

 

 

b, LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon,
a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent
supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext —
investigation of the residents of an apart ment building where
CASTILLO was helieved to live, Later, LIENTRAP supported the

results of the’ investigation. with excellent photographs of the
subject.

3. “To provide operational support to Station operations, i,e., rent

him an extremely valuable Station asser for such support activities,
GERENDE aiso procures post office box letter ¢ drops for the many
Station operations requiring them,

SECRET eer"

wen oe 88

We ,

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

4, It is the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer time ..
expended on. this segment of the LIEMPTY project is worthwhile and
should be continued in view of the quality and quantity of operational
information produced,

Simon D, CLACKETT Segment (discussed in relation t to project
objectives):

1, "To collect operational information and to identify operational leads.

pertaining to the LIMERICK target and Station targets of opportunity.”
During this project year the LIPERSEY surveillance team under the
direction of CLACKETT began contributing to the Station's support
efforts through pretext investigations and physical surveillances. Some
examples of the team's work are listed below:

 

a, {(201-64372) is a Guatemalan
Communist which the team had under surveillance from
November 1959 to April 1960, The surveillance, together
with information acquired from other sources, eventually.
resulted in an unsuccessful recruitment attempt on

b, \(201-64546) isa
Dominican of interest to the Station. The team
devoted portions of five months, January to May 1960, collecting

information on subject through physical surveillance,

 

 

 

 

 

c. Jose Maria "Chema" LOPEZ Valdizon (201- +) was the
subject of a physical surveillance during May and June 1960.
LOPEZ was later deported from Mexico through the efforts
of LITEMPO-2,

ad, CLACKETT and the LUERSEY team performed numerous
pretext investigations on. Station targets of opportunity and on ~
_ three separate occasions during the project year served as
‘a counter- surveillance. escort for. Station officers. in v other
Operations. Se:

“2, CLACKETT, just prior to his resignation in. August 1960, spent
about tive weeks giving tradecraft and operational skills training to
LITEA-1. Although not spe ecifically covered by the project objectives,
this ability on CLACKETT ‘s part is considered a significant con-
tribution to the Station's support efforts,

 

SECRET Ae

pace SP of fs
Sore HO.

 

 

 

 

    
14-00000

 

SECRET 00
Ae

This information is particularly useful in keeping track of
LIMERICK personnel and assisting with the identification of
visitors to the installation. Also, LIMITED maintains a-
summary attendance list of LIMERICK employees.on a daily
basis; this enables the Station quickly to ascertain the
presence or absence of an employee on any given day,
Finally, one other significant service is performed by this
base, the radio dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance
team on LIMERICK personnel and targets of opportunity,
LIMITED's photographic coverage is, still concentrated on_
visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK .
installation, A recent example of the base's contributions to
Station efforts is the case of | In this
case, a LIENVOY lead indicated that an American might visit
the LIMERICK target on a certain day. The base was alerted .
to dispatch the radio-controlled surveillance team on any
person appearing to be an American, The results of this’
assignment were indicated in MEXI-6392 and several other
cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs, .
which when compared with photographs provided by Head-
quarters, left no question. as to identity,

 

 

 

 

b, LILYRIC - This base's output of high-quality clandestine .
photographs has been in about the same quantity as last year,
In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-1I4, prepares weekly
reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives. LILYRIC
also performs the assignment of noting and reporting the. .
license plate numbers of all cars bringing visitors to the’
LIMERICK installation. LILYRIC photographs also are con~-
centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed to employees,
it should be noted that LILYRIC operates for photographic

coverage during the hours from daylight to,1400 hours. each . Bb dato

day of the week except Sunday. The LIMITED base maintain.
photographic coverage from 1400 hours co darkness each vay :
except Sunday, . _ Cm, :

c, LICALLA - As ceported in previous correspondence, the
LICALLA base contributes to the collection of operational
information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK

- employees and their families, Also, the base operator,

SECRET {6

PAck. ‘of 6 8
OPX NOew

 

 

   

|
}
i
i
|
ii
t
14-00000

 

GONZALEZ was finally identified and his

Mexico City home md business addresses were —
ascertained. See HMMA~15626, 9 September 1960, -
for further details on this case.

be The preliminary investigative work on a.
KUSODA case of priority interest was conducted
by SCANTLING. During this investigation it
was necessary for SCANTLING to travel to i
Aguascalientes, Guanajuato md Minatitlan to —
obtain the information required by Headquarters. |
See the attachments to HMMT-1416, 20 May 1960, ;
. for the results of the investigation.

4- In addition to his contributions to the above objec= |
tives, SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support
requirements of the Station. For example, SCANTLING
handled several of Raymond H. GERENDE's (ps) operations
while the latter was away from Mexico City during: August
. . and September 1960, Also, SCANTLING has been managing
-. the LIJERSEY surveillance team since the departure of
Simon D. CLACKETT in August 1960. I+t is hoped that
SCANTLING can be relieved of this assignment as soon
as the LITEMPO project is approved. SCANTLING has also
been used to spot and rent safe houses for various
Statron operations, a valuable operational support -
services.

5, As stated in the preceeding Request for Project
Renewal, al though SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives
can never be completely fulfilled, it is the Station's
opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable
contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically —
and to other Station activities in generd.. SCANTLING's
production, measured against monetary expenditures,

case officer time and other intangible factors, unques—._
tionably justifies his continuation as am integral part io
of Project LIEMPTY. ‘

 

Be. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project
objecti ves): . ; ;

 
 
 
  
 

   

de Fo. eollect- operational i

- DIMERTCOK ,ersonnel ‘and physicaL facilities ¥ whe brough’: use
o£ photographic base houses.” . “Together: with their.”
extensive photographic coverage of the LIMERICK ‘target,
the photographic bases also contribute other types of
operational information: :

nfoimation | per tad si ning “6

    

  

& LIMITED = This base compiles daily Logs t
indicating all arr ivale, dewartures and, ; 7
where possible, identities of every person :
visiting or working at the LI K targets

+
as

 
 
  

  

wie

“PACE ea

SORE NOo rs

 
14-00000

SECRET / geen

REVIEW OF PROJECT LTEMPTY . :
(For the Purpose of Project Renewal} ;

T. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION ae 4

Ae Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in’ relation
; to project objectives):

1. "To collect operational information per : ; |
taining to LIMERICK personnel and physical
facilities." SCANTLING has continued (See the .

be . last Project Review forwarded as an attachment od
+o HMMA~14093, 13 November.1959) to provide :
worthwhile and significant information per—.— : ;
taining to the above objective. There follow . : |
a few examples of SCANTLING's production: .

a. A detailed casing of the LIMERICK .
electrical power supply was forwarded
to Headquarters as an attachment to _ :

HiiMA—1 4496, 12 February 1960. The pro~ ; i
duction of this type of operational :
information, which takes several weeks
to compile accurately, illustrates the.
unusual talents possessed by SCANTLING
together with his valuable contributions |
to the Station's operational information : ae
eollection effort. i be

bd. SCANTLING has been used frequently
to follow up leads produced by LIFHAT/ !
LIMERICK (now produced by LIENVOY). For
example, in May 1960, LIFEAT indicated
that the LIMERICK target was having con—- |
siderable contact with an AGENCTA ROBLES ; ; !
concerning the handling of incoming and ; : !
outgoing shipments. By discreet investi~ i
gation, SCANTLING was able to provide the . a i,
Station with additional pertinent information. . |
about the address , owner and type of business ; : :
engaged in by the firm. Such information’: 9
then becomes readily available for: exploitat on:
‘should a LIMERICK shipment of: particular |. ;
“interest come to the attention of the, ‘Stati Ons”

 

  
 
 

 

 

c. SCANTLING is the Station's orimary .
investigative asset for keeping track of
‘current residence addressees of LIMERICK
personnel, The Station considers it important
from the counterespionage standpoint + to nain~ :
tain information on the location of oo

i
t
ee.
i
i

 
14-00000

 

LIMERICK residences. In addition, specific

targets are continually considered for LICOOL
installations. <A recent example of SCANTLING's
efforts in this cornection would be the spot- . an
ting and acquisition of the LIMOTOR base in |

the same apartment building with LITALON -1.

Contributions of this type operational informa~
tion are quite time consuming’ due to the |
necessity for checking out several apartments of.
that a LIMERICK individual may initially be 5
considering as a residence.

2e "Qo collect operational information pertaining to
other targets of opportunity, foreign official installa-
tions and personnel of. intelligence interest operating
in Mexico." As indicated below, SCANTLING is also

' extremely useful for collecting information on targets
other than LIMERICK:

- @- In Narch 1960 SCANTLING was instrumental
; ‘in locating property adjacent to the LITABBY
installation which the Station has since
rented in anticipation of initiating photo~
graphic and technical operations, SCANTLING
was able to accomplish this assignment only .
after a thorough casing and pretext investi-
gations of the several pieces of property
appropriate for such operations, ,

be SCANTLING is also used to follow up
sensitive leads in connection with LIFEAT 1
and LIENVOY production from LITABBY and i
sister targets (See example as to type.
under I,A,l, b and c¢ above).

 

ce SCANTLING was used as an investigative
asset to determine the local address and
axact employment of : 8
(201-220025), a countéPSspionagse Susy Sr :
interest to Headquarters ang ODENVY. :

 

 

 

 

 

3, *To- exploit operational leads through rocrudtaents -
. sabriefings, and surveillances.”. As) exampl
* -SCANTLING's _contrioution to this objective, the
tbe woe ae

        

a@e SCANTLING devoted a considerable amount
of time to his attempts to locate Cesar
GONZALEZ Sanchez, a known agent of 9 Come
munist Country. He. followed various leads
on GONZALEZ from March to August 1950 before

 
CLASSIFICATION DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NO.

CONTINUATION OF |
, DISPATCH SECRET BYMA-23343

 

 

 

For these reasons, the LILYRIC basehouse generally operates from 0900 to W400 or 1500
weekdays. LIMITED operates froin 1200 to 1800 or dark {as the daily situation
dictates) on weekdays, and 0900 to 1400 on Saturdays. (These hours are subject to
change to fit Station needs.) Special coverage for Sunday is arranged on a need.
basis; however, past experience has shown regular coverage of Saturday afternoons

and Sundays is not rewarding. This schedule provides for both basehouses to be in
action during the peak activity hours of the LIMERICK target. Although even this
arrangement is not completely airtight, anything less than this would present unaccept:
able gaps in the coverage. It must also be considered that without two basehouses cov
ing the front of the target installation, any illness, personal problem or vacation fo
operators of one basehouse would terminate Station coverage.

Also worth mention at this point is the radio "dispatching" of the LIEMBRACE ; |
team by the LIMITED base. Due to the tight protective security measures instituted by H
the local police in the area of the LIMERICK installation it is impossible for a i
“unilateral surveillance team to stakeout the LIMERICK installation when assigned to :
coverage of members of the LIMERICK staff, LIMITED operator radio dispatches the *
team onto target personnel giving direction, means of travel and description of dress
of these targets. This permits the team to commence its surveillance a number of .
blocks from the LIMERICK installation and beyond the protective ring of the local
police. This radio dispatching makes possible the surveillance of LIMERICK staffers
_ which would otherwise be impossible or extremely risky. - ry 7 oye if Coad i
. dro, fh 0 Yee ‘te GE, FANG
The third basehouse, LICALLA, ‘provides coverage of the back of the LIMERICK. . |
installation and the garden area. This coverage is the real "window" the Station hes
into.the LIMERICK target and provides a large part of the information on which aa
Station bases its fdentifications of LIMERICK staffers and its estimates of staffing,”
personnel positions and intelligence connections of the LIMERICK personnel. Due to’
» its position, LICALLA is also able to provide information on the LIMERICK installation
which is of LAURICLE interest.

 

It is the Station's opinion that as long as the LIMERICK instellation is a prime
target of the Station, it will be necessary to maintain the present three basehouses,
To eliminate any one of the three would create a gap in the Station's coverage that
would not be compatible with the emphasis placed on this target by the latest RMD and

' the Station's responsibilities under this RMD. th en aoa ageumed 7 hace ° .

3e OPERATIONS - CURRENT.

In the past it has been stated that the LIEMPTY operation provides the majority
of photographs used by the Station in its CE operations against the LIMERICK target. -
This is still true and will remain so for the foreseeable future, The Station, and’
particularly that section concerned with the LIMERICK target, has always considered i
the LIEMPTY photo take an essential tool in following the deily activities of the !
personnel of the target installation and visitors to that installation. Obviously po
the most interesting individuals in both these categories sre those of intelligence
concern. Among these pave been a number of PBPRIME citizens. For those interested
in statistics, LIGMPTY take for the reporting period included approximately 235 volls
of operational ehotos, 205 of which vere directly concerned with the LIMERICK target, ;

_ Im addition, the Ly logs kept by the basehouses on the comings and goings of the :
4 LIMERICK ‘staff members and visitors haye sreatly aided the Scations cE efforts > re
y especially in ert isis times such as. the CPSL FLOOR affairs a an i

  

 

   

: “In the ares. of specific support to the “Station's” cE program + lin eddition - to the. a
-- pbove) ‘and support to obher Station operations, the following 2 is.a list of. selected °°

LIEMPTY contribwviions in this area.

    

thet operation, The contributions made by the two cutouts, Raymond H. . :
| GERENDE and Oliver G, SCANTLING, during the reverting period can be i
truthfully described as "making" the operation work, Only because GSREMNDE i
anc SCANTGING are available to provide daily execution of the assignments i
levied on the Station has the Station been able to contribute fully to .
AMROD. . : : |

   
  
  
  

b. Oliver G, SCANTLING continues in his assignment as cutout in the LIMTTEr

: thie LIEMPTY operation 2nd altermate conmtech of LICASA-L in a :
operation of LAURICLE interest, Due to the fact that SCANTLING's
curing the reporting period with the resulting visits of

phase of

     
 
 
 

  

 

 

 

3115 EQITION, [ SEICATION

MS
vi Stade AND-SLUD ARQRET

+ AE OBSOLETE, Ff

   

Ss ae LYeMpty “support to the AMROD operation continues to be essential to
i)
r
j
i
i
r
|

 

 

 

 

aaa
 

404-10054-10054

 

PROCESSING ACTION

 

DISPATCH

MARKED FOR INDEXING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chief, Wi Division ; XX _| no tnvexine required

INFO. . ONLY QUALIFIED DES¥
“) CAN JUDGE INDEXING 4d
Fon |
_Ohief of STation, Mexico City micROFILM |
age | |
i Project LIEMPTY Progress Report /Februa March and April. 196% i

j ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES _
Action Required: For your information

Reference ‘tA. HMMA-22944, 20 February 196k
Be HMMA-14793

 

1. _BAGEEROUND °

The LIEMPTY rroject is designed to collect operational information’ on the |
LIMBRICK instailation and personnel, as well as targets of. opportunity, through |
stationary and nobile photographic coverage. In addition, the project provides !
the means for investigating leads from the above noted coverages as well as other | i

i
|
{

*

Station sources, LIEMPTY supports other Station operations through the renting of
“safehouses, providing and servicing post office vox letter drops, conducting counter
survelllances and investigations and performing related tasks. Loon

2. OPERATIONS - REVIEW,

The Station feels that it would be helpful to summarize at this time information
previously reported to Headquarters (see paragraph 3 » reference B) coneerning the
photo basehouses under this project and thereby give Headquarters an updated . frame
of reference in which to view the roles of the various basehouses.

The LIMITED and LILYRIC basehouses provide coverage of front of the LIMERICK i
installation. . Although on the surface it may appear that these two basehouses :
rovyide diplicate take, this is not the case. It has been the Station's experience
in running the unilateral LIEMPTY operation that a 0900 to evening workday, which
would be required of a single basehouse in order to cover the LIMERICK target

. effectively, is Just too long for any pair of agents to remain effective, This is
especially true when it is considered thet these baschouse operators are essentially
unsupervised during their workday. It would also be impossible for a single base-
house to provide the kind of coverage the Stetion needs on the target instelletion, | .
especially during the peak hours of. acti iwity, namel ty late morning g end early afterncop. |

 
  
 
   
 

Distribution:
: C/WED

 

 

 

 

| HAMA-23315

 

 

CLASSIFICATION

| SECRET.

    

PACE éL. of aan a
cory N00 ccm
ce hy ne
14-00000

. a : oo £ » ~ . . ( “~
i . se CLASSIFICATION Dist STMEOLAND NO”
CONTINUATION OF-

 

“De  ERSONNEL, oo

had run a red light causing LIENTRAP to turn over on its left side. Since the

‘No security problems resulted and LIENTRAP was back in operation in @ Week.

‘Learned that most had forgotten at least part of the plan. New contact plans are

4, EQUIPMENT.

“required pajustnent of-the shutter and trip ) SPRENES

_ DISPATCH SECRET HMAn235)5

 

relatives and legal details to be settled, SCANTLING's miscellaneous
operational activity was somewhat curtailed, However, SCANTLING did
find time to teke on the servicing of a post office box mail drop for.
the sensitive AEIMPULSE operation and complete two pretext investigations.

   
   
    
   
    
  
  
 
   
    
    
    
  
   
   
 
   
 

ce. GERENDE contimed his assignments as cutout to LICALLA and LILYRIC basehouse:
and LIENTRAP truck. In addition GERENDE obtained a safe apartment for use
of the LIKAYAK Case Officer and performed an investigation at the Instituto
Cultural Espafiol~Mexicano at the behest of the COS. GERENDE and LIEMPTY-10
continued to provide frequent servicing of P. 0. Box mail drops used
operatlonally by Mexico City Station as well as other Stations.

a. Special assignments were given the project basehouses concerning a matter
of LAURICLE interest and the. arrival and activities of two LIMERICK TDY
officials. Full reports were prepared and supplied to the interested. Statio
officers in these cases. The project assets have also been alerted to

. provide immediate reporting on a special case involving a PBPRIME citizen
which is of interest to ODENVY and KUBARK. During the recent visit to. .
Mexico of an individual of ODIBEX interest, the project. assets were alerted
‘and supplied special weekend coverage of the LIMERICK staffer who was known
to have contacted the individual of interest to ODIBEX.

; e. During the reporting period the operational. use of LIENTRAP continued to
m inerease. This use has been primarily in the coverage of PCM and exile
Communists residing in Mexico.

3. SECURITY.

“LIENERAP was involved in an accident on 24 February 196). while returning from
@n operational assignment. LIENTRAP was struck on the right side by a taxi which

operational equipment is not permanently mounted in LIENTRAP, and is carried in a
smell case while moving from assignment to assignment, all equipment was readily
evacuated by LIEMPTY-1O while the driver, LIEMPTY-11, and bystanders righted
LIENTRAP, The taxi fled the scene and LIENTRAP was able to move off under its :
own power. Damage to the right side and broken windshield resulted from the accident

A survey was conducted among the agents under this project to determine if they
renembered their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals. It was

being formulated and current pictures of all agents have been obtained to facilitate
recontact. It is planned to review the recontact instructions with the: vagents
perlodically once the new plan is worked out.

No major equipment problems other than the LIENTRAP accident noted under -
“SECURELY” above were _ experienced during shis period. ‘In February the LIMITED camera

* The Station 7 has ‘been’ making a review. of its personnel » needs under this
project in order to determine where economies could be instituted without causing
gaps In operational coverage or decrease in security and efficiency. It has been
determined that LISMPTY-12 can be terminated under the above conditions and. probably
LIEMPTY-6 as well. It is planned effect these terminations as of 1 July 1964. Ib
also has been determined that as of 1 Audly LIEMPTY-19 will be placed on an hourly
ate for work performed for the Station.

6, TRAINING.

No training other than regular review of tradecraft principles (to ‘inelude
reeontact instructions) are planned. Photographic product is reviewed daily as a
stenderd procedure, and action agents are instructed as necessary to improve or
correct their technique in both taking and processing the product.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cepapetenmennme
14-00000

()

vi . 1

   

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(Por the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET

 

a é ;
oot fr o .
CRYPTONYM LISMPTY FIELD CASE OFPICER“Guinton N. OUSLER

STATION Hexico Cit CHIEP OF STATION Ferrer Bs Is |

The attached project action is presented for approval. for the

“ “period 1 December 1960 through 30 November 1961.

3

 

 

Faca Vv? of 68
GCPY NO.
APRIL
