izjpd

 

4, The facts in the attached chronology are subject to
question since they are the result of own explanation of
his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from
independent sources, The most critical aspect would appear to
be the knowledge or suspicion that Itkin may have known of

7 affiliation with CIA. This knowledge is borne out by
the strange way in which Itkin repeatedly brings name
into-the story which Itkin develops about his CIA affiliations, ~
One of the questions, to be answered by LBGLOBE personnel is
whether or not(— reported his activities with Itkin in Geneva,
Switzerland, in March 1966, There appears to be no record of
0% having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or
what his financial contribution was to the

 

 

OS

 

.5. Mr. Rocca was advised:by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI -
that the New York District Attorney may be considering prosecution
again for having absconded with funds received from
negligence cases. We do. not have sufficient information to evaluate
the likelihood of criminal prosecution, It may be necessary to
discuss thie problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office,

6. With regard to there appear to have been
two opérational considerations, one having been a request to use
him with Project DIPILLAR from November 1953 to February
1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations
Division for hic use on Project, WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO
Division advised Security that wae not going to be used
on WUBRINY. Mr. Rocca commented that there are some rather

‘ominous allegations against members of the firm 7) rl 2
indicating that one member of the firm was a card-

carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time

Mr. Rocca is investigating the DTPILLAR use of Mr. z ,

. 0G.

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHN K, GREANEY
Assistant General Counsel

- Pom Lure 8
te wot
Attachment LL ot Sours

cgi Cicimea

 

 

 

 

 
 

‘oa t0107-40137

 

03

 

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
; RETURN TO CIA

. Background Use Oni
SUBJECT: Herbert Itkin Do Not Reproduce y

1, A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messrs.
Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications
of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January.
It_was concluded that additiona}) information was required on
( pana ( 2? contacted the Director
Security and requested the security files on these two individuals
and was advised that we could not. have the security files but that

Mr. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and discuss
their contents openly,

 

 

932, On 29 Janyary, Mr. Greene brought the security files.

 

 

 

 

onl and and was most cooperative in explaining
their contents. Attached_is a chronological rundown on the
pertinent information on affiliation with
the FBI, CIA and Itkin, oS

 

3. On 30 Janua a meeting was held.with Messrs, Houston,
Warner, Rocca, and _CCS{LPGLOBE, to discuss
the operational use of Mr. Mr has been a

Staff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961.,. From March 1964 to
Nove: 1964 he spent time in writing a monograph
on problems. It should be noted that this
task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was
blown in the MHDOWEL exposures, In November ise
was assigned for Cover to the

bataff where he remained until March 1965 and then went”
to

 

 

 

 

 

{2-10

 

 

 
