‘e

ATTACHMENT TO 10 MARCH 1998 MEMORANDUM RE: CIA-IR-36

 

1. Per the Review Board staff's request the following
is a brief explanation of how the Directorate of Operations
(DO) processed cables in the 1963/1964 time-frame. As we
are unable to locate any definitive records on the subject,
and in all probability none ever existed, the information
provided is based solely on the memory of DO officers
familiar with procedures in place at the time.

2. Each area division in the DO maintained and staffed
its own registry. Although each registry was configured to
meet each division’s unique requirements, there were common
functions performed by all the registries to include:
collecting, sorting, and delivering of incoming cables;
maintenance of incoming and outgoing cable “chronos”
collecting and delivering ef incoming and outgoing pouch
material; and the issuance and maintenance of “pseudo and
alias” card files.

3. To the specific question regarding processing of
cables, on a daily basis, usually six day per week, each
registry collected its incoming cable traffic from a central
processing point, called the Cable Secretariat, an office
within the Office of the Director prior to its transfer to
the Office of Communications, Directorate of Support in
February 1972. The incoming cables were then sorted by
registry personnel according to pre-defined guidelines.
These guidelines were unique to each division and were
frequently altered to meet changing operational
requirements. Sorted cables were then delivered to specific
operational/area desks. A “chrono” copy of each was
maintained, on a temporary basis, usually for 90 days and
then destroyed.

4. Outgoing cables were created and coordinated by
appropriate operational/area desks and usually released by
the chief of the division or a designated releasing officer.
“Released” cables were then hand delivered or sent by
pneumatic tube system ( a system long ago dismantled from
the original Headquarters building) to Cable Secretariat for
processing into the Agency’s communication network.

“Chrono” copies of outgoing cables were forwarded to the
registry for a 90 day hold and then destroyed.

5. It is important to note that the cable scenario
outlined here is general in nature and that throughout their
existence registries and their procedures were frequently
altered until the registry system as described above was
eliminated in the mid-1980's.
104-10336-10035

 

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

' SUBJECT:

 
  

CIA SPEC

10 March 1998

T. Jeremy Gunn, Esq.
Executive Director, ARRB

J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP

ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-36, For Information
On Processing of Incoming Cables

1. The following and the attachment are responsive to

subject request.

The attachment is an extract of the

pertinent text from a memorandum provided by the Directorate

of Operations.

2. If you have any questions concerning this response,

please advise.

Att.

J. Barry Harrel

—_
 

 

" ADMINISTRATIVE .INTERNAL-USE-ONLY

From the Desk of; 7 }

DCIIRO -39058 /—

 

 

 

 

 

on —e
NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
FROM:
OFFICE: DUMIRO
DATE: 03/24/98 10:37:06 AM
SUBJECT: ARRB Request No. CIA-IR-36, For information on Release of Incoming Cables.

In response to you facsimile of 19 March, the DCI area/IRO concurs in your decision to release your memo of 10 March with attachment
to the AARB.

ce: .
Sent on 24 March 1998 at 10:37:06 AM
