13-00000

   

5. “Ta Sune,. i961, subject again came to the attention
of the Agency’ through/

 

 

 

with. RORKE/FIORINI /ROJAS combination) appeared to have
“About this: time, when ROJAS had to withdraw from active

 

 

 

[which

 

 

“(were intervened.){ At this time, reported that :
' FIORINI had. told: Ruby Phillips of the New. York Times that -

he had 50 men who were willing to engage in commando-type

.. vaids. in Cuba.and ‘asked Miss Phillips to obtain official _
'U. S. support for.his activities. In August, 1961

reported to C.I.A. that RORKE and FIORINEI were attempting
‘to obtain funds: for an anti-Castro program involving 5,200 ~

_men which would operate from off-shore islands, possibly

the British Isles. The program again involved er and

' PT boats. During November and December of 1961
- reported that RORKE and FIORINI were working with ex-Ambaesador

Sergio ROJAS and had flown two leaflet operations against.

Cuba, the last being approximately 12 December 1961. On

_ these flights FIORINE. flew one aircraft while RORKE was a .
_ passenger ‘on. the other. (On the 12 December flight, one
~-aireraft crashed at sea and the wife of the American pllot

‘was causing. a fuss due to reported U. S. ‘Government

~ involvement . in the. activity.)

 

gs By late December, 1961, RORKE and oe
appeared to have fallen out with ROJAS. an reported |
that Pedro DIAZ Lanz (who by this time was aIso6 associated .

become ROJAS' military advisor with FIORINI shunted aside.

anti-Castro activities due to his funds running out, it
appears that FIORINI, Pedro DIAZ Lanz and RORKE formed
their own group and attempted_to obtain funds in a variety
‘of ways. In May, 1962, )xeported that FIORINI and
DIAZ Lanz, along with 27 other people had departed Florida
in an unnamed boat around the middle of April. They were
to land on one of the Cuban Cays, return to Florida to
_pick up RORKE whereupon all would return to Cuban waters
and commence harassment eee against the Castro

 

 

regime. According to the U. S. Coast Guard
intercepted the FIORI Lanz expedition while |
enroute to Cuba and gently "urged" them to return to
Florida, which they did. Since May this group has been
raising. funds for their anti-Castro activities and
reportedly had purchased or could get an aircraft and
also had several boats at their i

 

 
 
     

AB pveluded from asteaza, ¢
dowarrading oad
dzetusclitsation

 
104-10048-10236

 

' Castro. activities. “He reportedly proposed to anyone who
- would listen to him that he had small groups of men who |

‘on Cuban soil with these alleged groups of men. a Ce L,

‘Involved with one Alex RORKE (American freelancer engaged

3 July 1962

“oes (vl

 

MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD

 

le. “Subject is an . American citizen who has been active
in Cuban affairs for many years and who is one of the original
supporters of Castro. He first came to the attention of the
Agency in October, 1958, when he was arrested by the Batista
Intelligence Service on suspicion that he was acting as a
courier: forthe 26th of July Movement between Miami and

: Santiago de” Cuba.” -

 

2. th ‘Late “1958, he was active in obtaining suppiies

: for .Gubeared: Castro at which time he was associated with
_ Pedro DIAZ Lanz in these activities. After Castro came to
power in early: 1959, subject was reportedly working with

Raul Castro. and engaged in the training of militia in the
Santiago dé Cuba area, Later in 1959, subject had a falling
out with the Castro regime and by late 1959 was engaged in

“: anti-Castro ‘activities. . During 1960 he was frequently
. 'Yeported engaged in various anti-Castro activities and once
more was associated. with Pedro DIAZ Lanz in these activities.

3, subject is. a qualified pilot and most of his
activities have. revolved around the purchasing of and
planning for the use of various type aircraft in anti-

would follow. him and he has proposed many times to land
4, For: the past several years, subject has been

in anti-Castro activities) in a variety of proposals of
action against | the Castro regime.

 

 
13-00000

 

en: ne

 

oo a “an interesting sidelight is a May, 1960 report

that FIORINI had been trying to line up some University

. of Miami-radio hams to assist him in setting up a —
seaborne/commo system and training othe s in the
, d in

 

 

yyy

SECHEL

 

 
