 

”.

- Re:

_ JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO

CRET

DINAR |. .
"You know that HIL ved. Her husband and
she are moving to Puerto Rico at the end of the
month. The poor fellow does not do well here,

cand there, with.the cock fights, which he knows

very well, he can manage well. Do not say any~
thing about this to any of his relatives, since

I do not know if he would like them to know. He

plans to go back and forth between Puerto Rico
and Miami quite often.

“The ‘new address is:

"1350 N. W. 2nd St., Apt. 218
Miami, Florida,

"The name is the same.

"I should like you to drop by MANOLO's house
and give him the new address, You should not write
to the old address any more. The telephone is the same.

"Tell me something about the boys. What happened,
finally? (not clear)

"ISRAEL is working in a factory and there is no
news about him.

"Even though you scoptelin Havana did not suffer
from the hurricane, I can imagine how you felt. Tell
me something about the hurricane, And what is happening
to ENABEL? I hope that you always give her our regards.
Well, IRMA, I hope you will write soon, and write a lot.
Greetings and love from all. You know we all love you.

"pp tt

TOP _ SECRET

- 119 -

 

 
104-10306-10255

 

Vo wim For Spo ta

hah CMP PLAS
ek 452 ZRRWICK
Sega

‘Re: JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO \

TOP a
"to CAMEJO in Inqua. Be careful that you don't

keep these letters for very long burn them.
I love you

"PEPE"

Another letter from CARBONELL to IRMA SUAREZ
was postmarked October 18, 1963, at Miami, Florida:

Open text:
(From) H. DIAZ
1350 N. W. 2nd St.
Apt. 218
Miami, Fla.
(To) © Sra. IRMA SUAREZ
98 Ave. #7203 Almendares
Habana, Cuba
"October 17, 1963
"Dear IRMA:

"I wrote another letter to you before I
wrote this one and I have frot received any answer.

 

7 . "In it, I spoke about the telegram which you
ao sent me and I believe that you have not received it yet.

"you must not think that when there are some
delays in getting my letters for reasons beyond my
control that it means that I have forgotten you.

"I still have not lost hope of finding a solu-
tion for what you want,

~ 118 -

Funes Women chee ee sak Cidadn of

Senay ren
ve est foe St
 

 

 

Oo € —_ —¢

JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO
TOP SECRET.

Secret writing text: :

"Dear IRMA:

"YT received. your telegram, also the previous

‘one which you sent me to ask for the $800.00. I

already wrote to you several days ago in connection
with that. Tell me whether you want that money in
order. to come here and whether there is not going

to be blackmail, as they did with you before, and

as they also did with me. I do not say this to

you because of distrust, for you should understand
that for me a good friend is worth much more, and

if getting to know you will cost a hundred and some
odd dollars, this would be very cheap. So, as you
see, it is not a matter of distrust, but that we do
not want to be taken for fools. It is not only the
Communists who have profited from this revolution, but
also many clever people who are moving around us. I
believe that I shall be able to get the money for you

and I will let you know as soon as possible. I am
‘going to see if I can do some good little job to

resolve the problem and if I have to go to some

other place (?) to work for several weeks to get the
money so that I can send it to you, I shall do so, but
I want to help you as a a :

"IRMA, do not bother agking MANOLO GARCIA about
the letters which he has seni me, since I turned them
over to CONTE AGUERO and he has read them. I trust
MANOLO and believed that he will not tell me anything
which is not true. He sends some rather good information,
although they say worse things about Cuba here. It is
always good to report informers and he always sends the
names of some of them, and he also sends information
about the Russians in Cuba, etc. However, you hardly
ever tell us much. The people here are very hopeful
that there will be an internal uprising on the Island.
What do you think about this? Tell us something about
that; we know very little here.

TOP SECRET(DINAR )

-120-

 
13-00000

 

Re:

JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO

TOP_SECRET
"IT have to give you some information which
I want you to check well for me. CHINEA spoke
with the wife of ARMESTOY and she told him that

. ARMESTOY had been killed in Havana. Later, from

some friends of ARMESTOY we learned that he tried

‘to rent a car in order to go and get his wife, and

that he became suspicious and when they came to pick
him up, he had a fight with the police.

“REYNALDO, one of the coordinators of the MRR
in Matanzas whom I met in Havana when CHINEA was there,
told us this. REYNALDO came from Cuba about a month
ago and I believe that it was ARMESTOY who brought
him. He tells me that ARMESTOY was very happy and
that a few days before leaving for Cuba, he called
his wife on the phone and told her that he was going
to see her in a few days. If what REYNALDO says is
true, ARMESTOY was crazy to do that. The poor man,
and I thought that he had already forgotten us for when
he did not call us, we believed that he was in New York,

"Well, IRMA, get busy and tell me what you know

about this, and make any corrections, if necessary."

Another letter from CARBONELL to IRMA SUAREZ was

following:

postmarked November 5, 1963, at eT and contained the

Open text:

(From) H. DIAZ
1352 N. W. 2nd St.
Apt. 218
Miami, Florida

(To) Sra. IRMA SUAREZ

7203 92 Ave. #7203 Almendares
Habana, Cuba

TOP_SECRET
DIN.

- 121 -
