74-00000

©

Gb -f-tm md ~ 2S 6 ¢-O

-~ . . os,

 

. ™~ . ° “ss \
Ce
~Te ,
. i
ry6s” FY 66
Yehicle Maintenance .
on ES ome =
Beal Eatate (rent, utilities)
mate ae | ,
LICALLA 1,600 .
moto as Boo BS TT
Ruelonent
Maintenance and replacement of $ 506
mone equipments ave Tw Te Ts
Operational Expense $ ao
PO Box rentals vehicle rental 73s aa —_—
TOTAL. $5,300 27,6757, 625

(GERENDE's Christeas bonus, the temporary basshouse keepers’ salaries, snd the
photo lab rent, are included in Project LIEMPTY for the first time),

° EMERGENCY CONDTETONS

Emergency comumication plans for Oliver G. SCANTLING and Raymond H. GERENDR
are on file in the Stetion and at Headquarters (See HMMA-15982 and EMMA~15951 of
23 November 1960). In early 1964, a review was hold for the active agents in
this project of their recontact instructions and verbal recognition signals. In
addition the emergency contact plans for the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA base~
house. keepers were expanded and refined during the’ "eriets” outlined in parae
grapn II, Section A.

 

wl bef by

es tore SO-6- 74%
74-00000

return from Japan, he will assuse operat ional duties and responsibilities in
an activity not connected with Project LIEMPTY. Therefore, salary and
operational expenses for SCANTLING are programed for six months only.

_P) Other ‘etn Presented above, Maxico City Station plans no other significant

1. . project changes since tt 1s felt that this project is now wy operating at ite
optiaun size. Justification for the retention of three bagehouses was
presented in detail in HMA-23343 (which is available at Headquarters). i
Efforts will be contimed, however, to refine and better utilize the existing —

project organization and assets.

VIT, co@ps (ALL figures are dollars, J. 3.)

A) Past Project Year - Station records indicate that Project LIEMPTY expended
$35,952.78 during the period 1 ‘December 1963 through 30 Septeuber 1964.
Approximately $9,000 will be expended during the remainder of the present
project year. It is estimated that approximately 20 hours of case officer
time per week is necessary to satisfectorily fulfill the operational,
. administrative and analytical. requirements of this project. Bi-weekly
accoutings with receipts and/or certifications are subaitted by Raymond H.
: GERENDE and Oliver G, SCANTLING to the Station Finance Officer, via the
ease Officer for all Project LIEMPTY expenditures,

3) Ensuing Project Year - Project LIEMPTY was programmed for $60,000 for the
forthcoming project years. Due to the Station's economy measures, however,
only $45,300 te requested for the ensuing year. Of this amount, $27,675 will
be expended in FY 1965 and 427,625 in FY 1966, A detailed breakdown of

project expenditures follows:

 

Salaries (inoluding Christaas bons) Fy 65 Fy 66
Raynond H, QERENDE ; #500
Oliver 4, SCANTLING for 6 months WA
LIEMPTY~4 {rnote tad} — 200!
TEEPE ‘photo lab)assistant) 1,100 |
LIEMPTY-6 (epee basehouse keeper) 3,700
LIEMPTY-7 (LIMITED assistant) no salary
LIEMPTY48. Terminated 1 July 196%
LIEMPTY-9 (LICALLA basehouse keeper) 3,600
LIEMPTY-10 (LIENTRAP operator) 4,400
 LIEMPTY-11 (LIENTRAP assistant) 2,500
LIEMPTY-12 Terminated 1 July 1964
LIEMPTY-13 (LILYRIC basehouse keeper) 2,000
LIEMPTY-24 eae asetetant) 2,000
" LIEMPry-19 (Typiet) 2,000

Temporary basehouse keeper 2,000

LIEMPTY-24 (LICALLA assistant) no salary
35,760 21,760 %3,600

4-44
74-00000

 

TT, CHANGES

‘A) On 2h September 1964, the Station was informed by Headquarters that a
LIENFTY project photograph which was one of several supplied to the Warren
Comission in Noveuber 1963, would be published in that Commission's formal
overt report. Since LINERICK officials would undoubtedly be able to |
recognise the individual in the photographs as a visitor to their
installation and with a-view towards the atteridant possible security problems, ©
the LIMITED, LILYRIC, and LICALLA operations wore suspended on 26 and 27
September and all photographic and other compromising equipment vas evacuated = £
froa these dbaseliniss basehouse personnel were briefed in general on the
situation and specifically on-how to cope with any possible inquirtes from
Goverment officials or LINGRICK inspire? or prompted newamen. Complete
gmergency commnications systend yere arranged for all basehouse personnel,
Raymond ‘H. GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANTLING. Upon recéipt by the Station of a
copy of the photograph, it was determined that the LIMITED basehouse -had
provided the photogriph in question.. This consideration, linked with further
analysis of the limitations upon any counteractions available to LIMERICK
officials, allowed the Station to re-activate the LILYRIC. and LICALLA bases
on a phased basis in early October 1964, However, because LIMITED was the
originator of the to-be-published photograph and due to the age and deterio~
rated condition of the LIMITED property (owned by KUBARK), Station Mexico
City did not reactivate LIMITED and presented to Headquarters a plan for the
demolition of the present LIMITED structure with recommendations for the
construction of.a new building complex. (See MEXT 1307 dated 20 October 1964

for additional detatis),

.B) In accordance with paragraph 2 of HMMW~12297 dated 28 January 1964, the
value and productivity of all assets under Project LIEMPTY was closely
Teviewed against the necessary security and efficiency requirements, It was
deterained that LIEMPTY-l2 ari LIEMPTY-8 could be terminated without causing
intolerable gaps in operational coverage or an unacceptable decrease in
efficfency, Both LIENPTY-12 and LYEMPTY-8 Were terminated on 30 June 1964;
at the same time, in keeping with the ODYOKE economy program, a further effort
was made to reduce the costs of thie project by placing LIENPTY-19 on an
hourly rate for work performed for the Station, ,

'
C) On 30 September 1964, the flald Case Officer responsibility for Project
| LYEMPTY was transferred from Jereny L. NIARCOS to Cornelius L. PEUVION: *
hovever, the analysis of the finished take from the photographic basehouses

continues to be performed by Robert B, RIGGS,

 

III. EFFECTIVENESS

The effectiveness of the LISMPTY project mist be judged on the basia of the
reliable daily coverage provided rapidly and securely for the Station and
interésted Headquarters’ components on the LIMERICK installation; the rapid
mobile coverage provided resularly by LIENTRAP; and the support to these and
other operations provided by Raymond H, OERENDE and Oliver G, SCANTLINO,
‘(See Section I, Subsection C for specific examples of this effectiveness).

a

 
 

ve

 

In the opinion of Station officers who use the LIEMPTY photographic product or
receive LIEMPTY operational support, this project has responded wost satisfactorily

to the needs ami requirenents. .

PROBLEMS
ee

A) thé only sajor operational/secarity problem Which confronted project LIENPTY
during the period under * ov were the sscurity taplications stemming frog the
release of the overt Warren'Cousiseion report, (See paragraph If, Section A)e
The precise damage occasioned locally by the report, cannot be measured until

c of the feport annex containing the actual LDCTED

- interim period, the emergency contact systems are

being aaintained in readinesa, the cover stories of all personnel involved

have been: reviewed. and ‘etrengthened, and no undue concern has been displayed
by any of the project personnel. Potential Station countermeasures to the
poseidle LIMERICK reaction to the Patani esi of the subject photograph were

outlined in MEXI-2028 dated 25 September

B) No wmasual personnel ‘probleus have arisen and the overall performance of all
agexts connected with this project bas been satisfactory.

LIAISON AMD INTERAGENGY COORDINATION
Not. applicable,

 

   

PLANS.

A) The future of the LIMITED basehouse, property and personnel vill be determined
within the near future, (See Section 2, subsection a),Station has acquired
another spartaent., ana temporary basis in the LILYRIC complex to replace the
loss of LIMITED coverage and it will be activated after the acquisition and

clearance of basehouse keepers,

B) No basic changes are contemplated in either the administration or operation
of the LICALLA or LILYHIC ‘bases. Station will sgain initiate motion picture
* coverage of selected LIMERICK personnel engaged in conversation in the
garden area in an attenpt to obtain film which will lend itself to lipreading

by Headquarters’ specialists.

C) The Station plans to maintain the increased level of LIENTRAP operational
activity, with this asset being targetted in the near future against the
Partido Popular Socialiata (PPS) in support of the Station's new PPS

penetration program.

D) Effective on 1 September-1964, Raysond H, GERENDE assumed the cutout role
end responsibility for the LIMITS) basehous? in addition to his other
operational duties outlined in Section I. . No other basic operational or

administrative changes are plarned for GERENDE for the ensuing period.

2) The resoval of Oliver G. SCANTLING as the cutout to the LIMITED basehouse ;
wpe a result of the recent death of his wife, his pending trip to(Japan as‘. .
and the Station's desire to five
H. GERENDE, After SCANTLING's

 

 

Og

 

 

mre operational responsibility €5

 
 

 

REQUEST FOR RENEWAL
PROJECT Limarry

t. ISeME OBIBCIEES ND GARD HODES AccNRLLSMEOT.

A. The overall odjecdiive- of-the LIENPTY project activity is to collect .
operational information on thé LIMERICK installation and personnel, as welk -
as related targets of opportunity, through stationary and mobile photo- °
graphic and physical surveillance coverage. Corollary objectives which are
to be fulfilled through the 1 use of the LIEMPTY instelletions and personnel

are as follows: -

1) To provide operational information pertaining to the daily activities
and movements of LIMERICK personnel, particularly those individuals of
intelligence interest, as well ea information on the LIMERICK physical

facilities. and visitors to the preaises,

2) To collect operational information pertaining to other targets of
opportunity, other official installations, and persons of intelligence

interest operating in Mexico.

3) To provide operational support and other protective services to Station
persomel. and operations ag way be deemed necessary,

‘B. The above objectives are to be fulfilled through the use of vhe Liners,
LInyric, and LICALLA fixed installations, the LIENIRAP mobile unit, ana. the
services of contract agents Raymond H. GERENDE and Oliver @, SCANTLING. Thess
objectives are in consonance with and represent partial fulfillment of the
following sections of the current Related Mission Directive as approved for

Mexico City Stations

Priority A, Section 1, Subsection e
Priority A, Section 2, Subsection «

C. Throughout the period under review, Project LIEMPTY continued to contribute
directly and significantly to the fulfiliment of Station and Headquarters’
requests and requirements for coverage of various targets falling within the
framework of the above cited objectives and the Related Mission Directive.
Speciric examples of LIENPTY- progresa, accomplishments ani contributions by

each project component are as follows:

1) LIMGrEp
Throughout the reporting period, until operetional activity vaa terainated
, end the photographic equipment evacuated from the LIMITED basshouse on
26 September 1: {(vecause of security implications stemming from the
release of the Warren Commission report, see Section II, CHANGES), ‘he
LIMITED installation provided daily photographic coverage and physical
surveillance of the main gate of LIMERICK installation during the afternoon
and early evening hours, The Station considers the LIMITED photographic

VF, Gch “FEY

fe~l- 2yfs

ts Cory

  

Ab -1- Hah -2Lb SO
 

 

(41016740049),

oO RETURNTO CIA ~?
t faba , Background Use Only
7 _ + Do Not Reproduce

   

PEQCESSING ACTION

ISPATCH a=

NO INDEXING REQUINED

  
 

 

 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 

 

  
 

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JU0GE INDERING:

 

   

Chief of Station, Nexico City

 

 

 
  

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

     

1. Project LIEMPTY expires on 30 Novesber 1964. Forwaried herewith and
under separate cover in split transmission is the Request for Renewal of
Project LISNPTY, °

' 2, It is requested that Project LIEMPTY be renewal for the period

1 Decesber 1964 through 30 November 1965 for the amount of $45,300, Of this
total, $27,675 should be alloted for FY 1965 and $17,625 for FY 1966,

      
       
    

Run Tees
Y* vaniara c. corets /

   

   

  
 

RSCINNS OF:
The Potter

 

FICER STavp

  
 
 

 

 
 

Attachment 2
Left hand side h/w
Right hand side usc

 
   
  
   

  

   

  

+ Site
. lIordir
4f apzropriate, inate

   

Peusa,

 
    

Distribution:

QR) C/wan w/att

  
    
 
 

fed Gus gt

CROSS REFERENCE TO DGPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
MOU-2h650 | |
—_

CLASSIFICATION .

: euiliogeaen a.
35 ee

 

 

    
 
  

 

 
 

fs

Dif
 

ed

24

2)

3)

4)

62 (8

 

“2 .

coverage an esgentisl and reliable tool for following the daily activities
of the target personel ant the arrival ani departure of visitors, some of
whom have been PEFRINGYs. In addition, the LINITED installation provided
a fixed radio dispatch base for the LIEMBRACS team, Because of the
extremely tight-decurity. seasures instituted by the local security forces
in the iomediate vicinity oft the LINERICK installation, stekeouts by the

survetliance team are precluded. However, with LIMITED
Personnel spatching the teas frou positions removed froa the protective
security ring, onto targete departing the installation, surveillance
coverage is made posal ble.

EXLYRIG

The LILYRIC installation also provided photcsraphic and fixed visual sur-
veillance of the front of the LINERICK installation throughout the period
under review, during the sorning and early afternoon hours. This photo-
&raphic coverage and the written logs of the moveuent of LIMERICK
personnel prepared by LILYRIC personnel, couplesents the LIMITED coverage
used by the Station in its KUDESK operations against the LIMERICK target
and has been Judged to be of equal quality ani value to the LINITED

coverage.

EICALLA
The LICALLA installation continued to provide coverage of the back of
-the LIMERICK installation, the garden, and patio area where many of the
personnel and their families congregate. This coverage gives the Station
its real insight into the LIMERICK target ani provides a large part of the
information-on which the Station bases its tdentification of LIMERICK
staffers, their rank #id positions, the staffing estimates, and the
intelligence connections. of the various officers. In addition some
information of LAURTCLE interest ts provided by LICALLA (eee parwgraph 2,
section f of HMMWA-2h035 dated 2 ‘September 1964 for further details).

ELXEYERAP oy
A greatly increased use of the LIENTRAP unit was evidenced throughout
the period under review, This aseet was eaployed extensively for photo-
graphic coverage of PCM Heaiquarters, the PCN Women's Congress, the hones
of PCM members and the residences of foreign Coumnist exiles in Mexico.
Much of this coverage was in support of past or planned recruitment
attempts and was néeded to. provide identifications of other local or
¥isiting Commmists. Specifically LIENITRAP coverage assisted in the
identification andi the verification of the address and contacts of
LIGXIDE-1, prior to the Station's successful recruitment of this high-
Ry PCM member, The section primarily responsitle for the Station's
anti-PCM activity has classified the LIENTRAP coverage as a most

“valuable” part of their effort,
   
  

5) ‘Fiore coveraon - OSERAL .
‘icing the 9 sont ported fon 2 Navigon: to 2 Aug aetk the LIMerY

   

 

 

_ : Eas -
SD, Liver 94 SCANTERNG

a ae During the pertod 1 December 1963 ¢ through 30 August 1964, long-term Station
: . - asset, Oliver G, SCANTLINO (ps) continued as the cutout to the LINITED :

  

Coen iv FY. basehouse, ana made bis ré; contribution as the alternate contact of
: 2, ‘LICASA~2. in thie sensitive ‘LAURICLE operation. SCANTLING also performed
a manmerous pretext investigations, serviced accommodation addresses, and
. prepared formal casing reports. Of particular significance were
“on. _SCANTLING's regular checks of the accommodation address used in the
~'-gensitive ULSE loperation, the thorough investigation of a former
Sere lagen’, of interest to KUBARK, and detailed casings of the Chinese
cnminist Fair, (See also ‘Section n VI, PLANS, for SCANTLING' a future

* : operational assignnént)},

7) Raymond H, OERENDE

Lo . a : During the period unier review, GERENDE contimed in his assignment as

: _ o«-* > the Station cutout to the LILYRIC and LICALLA basehouses, the LIENTRAP
i . ssn unit and as the processor of the raw photographic take, and with the
. : : " " @seistance of LIEMPTY-10, continued to provide and service the mJjority

. of the accommodation addresses uéed by the Station. The contributions

“made principally. by GERENDE (ana to a limited extent by SCANTLING) to the
sensitive AMROD operation can accurately be described as unique and “
essential to the success of that operation, Although this activity is
necessarily a Headquarters directed effort, the local contributions of
QERENDE and SCANTLING are integral ingredients of thet operation.

: 7 - D. ‘It will ba noted from.the above samples of LIEMPTY contributions to the

    
 

   

 

 

" Station's progress towards fulfilment of the pertinent sections of the
- Related Mission - Directive, ‘that notwithstanding their demonstrable value
. and importance, these. contributions actually represent only a portion of

: : : _ the activity directed towards the fulfillment of each objective. Therefore,

, t . any precise measurenent of project progresa is precluded, However, based

: : ~ Lo on the performance end overall contributions of the LIEMPTY project during

yo . the past project year, the. Station concludes that this project is essential
' to the fulfillment of the Related Mission Directive and mst be continued

‘ : co . during the forthcoming project year.

 
