74-00000

q

 

Enclosure to
TA+204 -05
5 April los

of the first year of the Castro government had been asked if they
would consider taking their old positions if and when there vas a
Cuban government that vould be close to the original revolutionary
governvent -- in other words, Ray and his people. This was before

the assassination of President Kennedy. After the assassination,
which was in November 1963, I was in Florida and found that the whole =,
Judas plan had disintegrated. The main reason for it was to have
something ready in case it was needed for a spectacular to give the
American people the feeling that its government had finally liquidated
Fidel Castro and then would so out and re-elect the current administra-
tion. This whole operation is very involved, would require hours to
explain. It was dubbed by wany the Judas plan because Judas was the
apostle who betrayed his Lord. So, let's go on to the next point.

1i. Ray floundered and was caught on Cay Anguila, in the Bahaoas,
a British possession, and as we 41] know he was fined for something
or other and let loose. Since that time we haven't heard auch except
that he beeps going in and out of Puerto Rico, Miami, etc., but he is
laying low. As far as the Cubans are concerned, he's rinished. [et
me say ag a little sideline to the Ray situation: In & secret meeting
in Ios Angeles, Jose Esteven, the JURE delegate, took an oath that Ray
was already in Cuba. Later, when Ray was discovered in Cay Ansuila,
Estevez told his own executive sroup he had lied so that they vould
not lose their enthusiasm. The people who had been with Ray in Los
Angeles told Estevez that if lying was a way of life for JURE they
would back out, that they had left Cuba because Castro had lied to
them, and that they were not going to take any more lies from any~
body. This was the end of JURS and I have their document which is
extremely interesting, but this is unimportant nov.

x

12, Now, let's take a quick look at Manuel Artime. In the
opinion of 95% of the Cubans that consider themselves in the "know",
Artime is a puppet, attached to the strings of the CIA. He's red,
clothed and maneuvered by CIA to its wish and nothing else. This is
@ general consensus in all Cuban circles, 30 Artime is not taken
seriously. Artine, however, is a very interesting person, he's
& good speaker, and nice-looking, but I consider his thinking very
much along the lines of Fascisa., Woen he travels he takes several
of his strong looking friends along, and when he speaks in public
places they seem to watch the corners, and look very nasty with
their insignias and all. I bad the pleasure of asking Artime when
he addressed the prestigious Asscciation for the Economic Reconstruc-
tion of Cuba in Miemi in March 1904, if he was sure that he was not
being used as a puppet for elements in the American Government that

-6- eae
14-00000

Enclosure to
TA-244-65
5 April 1965

wanted to keep Cuba as a showplace in America to prove to the rest of
America how bad Communism was. This was one of the theories making
the reumis in Washington, i.e., the horrible example. To ay surprise
and to kis, there was tremendous applause. I've got that on tape too.
I asked Artine if he was nct a traitor to his country. He told ne
that a wan who had been condeaned to death and been in prison for
two years was bard to deceive, which vas not an ansver., But it
founded very nice and I didn't insist. Anyway, Artime at this time --
we're talking now on March 24, 1965 -- I hear, has just completely
dismantled his operation. Since the unpleasantness in Costa Rica
which supposedly had to do with some contraband activities that
invoived the brother of President Orlich of Costa Rica hiaselr,
Artine's group has been dismantled. Most of his people are now in-
‘volved in another operation developing sround Miami and said to be
backed by the CIA or the Pentagon -- I don't know which. When I

was in Miami in January and February 1965, I found that there were
two groups of Americans handling Cubans. The CIA people who were
handling one kind of Cubans and then the Pentagon, apparently, was
waneusering another group. I really don't know how much truth there
is to this. I was told that the Pentagon people were at odde with
CIA and that they vere going to try and get their own group of Cubans
just to show CIA how it should be done. Artine’s people have gone

to @ sroup supposedly handled either by the Pentagon or by CIA.

43. There is another thing that I just found out in the last
week. Most of the people who were getting checks from CIA through
its different devices had been fired and that there was a panic
arcund Miami. These people who had been living and bringing up
‘their families with CIA checks were suddenly left out in the cold.

I don't know how much truth there is in this either. I don't know
what Artime is doing now although I talked to a relative of one of
Artize's close associates who told me today that there is e very
larse wove by the American Government inside of Cuba. In other

‘ words, the ideas of invasions or hit and run, and all that seem to
be passe. Now the big thing is the assassination of Castro and the
insurrection inside Cuba by people who sre discontent, that is, the
Castro followers the CIA has been able to reach. I understand there
has been a tremendous amount of work done in the last two years by
American agencies, and tremendous files compiled of who in Cuba could
be counted upon at certain times for certain things.

ik, This is fine and dandy and who knows, maybe tomorrow we will
hear that Castro has been assassinated and that the CIA plan has already
done what it is expected to do. I have only public information ard am

 
 

 

Enclosure to
TA-2yh -65
5 April 1965

10. The next point on the things that have gone wrong in the
process of Cuban liberntion is the fantestic “operetta”, and I say
operetta because ve could call 2% a tragic comedy, of Manolo Ray
and his meanderings arcund the Caribbean. I had been in Washington
in March 1964 and in Miawi in January or February 1964 and I had
done a lot.of talking, and interviewing, and investigating. When I
returned to Los Angeles, about April 19th, I yvave a meeting of Cubans
4@ full report of my three-month trip on the referendum preparations
going on in Miami, and ay conversations in Washington with some State
Department people, with-Cuban ex-ambassadors who still live in Washing-
ton and a tremendous assorteent of personalities. During my report,

“here in Los Angeles, one of the Cuban leaders asked me what I thought
.about Ray's promise to be in Cuba, fighting by the 20th of May. I

told him without any hesitation (and I have a tape of that mceting)

-that there was nothing to be concerned about or hoped for with Ray

because he was going to be on sove convenient little ialand in the
Caribbean with a photographer and a few friends and that would be the
end of his promise to invade Cubs. But I was promptly abused by a
member of the Junta (JURE) because he thought I was desecrating his
hero. I told him I didn't have anything against Ray but that I had
enough information to warrant my saying that. Of course, when this
actually happened just a few weeks leter when Ray was discovered on

’ Cay Anguila, a British posseseico, I was looked on with great respect

by the people at that meeting. My reasoning that Ray was going to be
found on an island was just the result of putting o few bits of informa-
tion together and asking myself why Ray had made the rash promise in
1963 that he would be fighting in Cuba or be killed in the fighting.
This was because of his famous, or infamous, scheme known as the

Judas plan, The Judas plan to refresu you was one whereby the American
Government (when I say governneat I wean precisely Robert Kennedy and
perhaps his brother) was to overthrov Castro just before the ckctions
of 1964. It came to be called the Judas plan because actually it vas
not meant to change the basic type of government, just to replace

Fidel Custro with Manolo Ray. Those or us who studied Ray vondered

how much digference there vould be in the basic political philosophy

of Castro and Ray. I taink that ve can say without missing the mack
too far that Ray vould find a ‘lot of support for this kind of thinking
in sowe circles of the State Departoent and the American Governcent,
Then I had another reason to tniak that this Judas plan was real because
during my stay in Miami I learned that severai top officials of the
first nine months of the Castro covernment, by then refugees theaselves,
had been contacted by people connected in some way with others supposed
to represent the Central Inteilisence Agency. These former officials
° ‘ . : Enclosure to
; TA-7y8 65
5 April 1965

the blockade when the moment of danger had already passed? I under-

stand that many people in Washington and the administration felt

that Khrushchev had behaved Like a good boy, had promised he would

take his missiles out immediately, and disaantle thea, and that he

should not be pushed into a corner. It was felt that if he was puehed

into @ corner, possibly the Stalinist group in the .USSR, prodded by : .
the Chinese, would overthrow Khrushchev, and then the US would have
to deal with a wuch tougher man and not good old Nikita vho vasn't
too hard to get along with. All he had done vas point a few atomic
wissiles at our heads. In any event, we Cubana felt that if the
blockade had been kept on for another few weeks, or until the inspec-
tion hed been made, this vould have been ac brutally shameful to th
Castro regime that right then and there, chances were good for an~ ~~ _7"
interna, uprising while the United Nations or the OAS or the Red

Cross was there making ite inspection. At any rate, this was a
fantastic opportunity that was misacd sy reaaons vhich perhaps

history oay be able to take care of. So, that was second ting”

that failed in the Cuben probles.

 

 

9. Tnen, of course, we can also wention the disaster of Miro
Cardona and his group which failed in the opinion of many people
because tiey were practically appointed by the State Department,

At least, at that time, the State Permirtment scemed to want some
left-wing leaders to take over Cuba. There is no doubt that Cardona
could be classified as a Socialist of sorts, or left-winger of sorts.
The disaster of Cardona was a result of tha Bay of Pigs situation and .
was a very unpleasant thing. I think personally that Cardona conducted
himself wrong. If be had been brought into President Kennedy's confi-

, dence, he should have respected that confidence and made a discreet
exit, but not the big to-do he made which didn't accomplish anything
except to kill the hopes of other Cubans and to make President Kennedy
and Robert Kennedy very angry. Anyway, Cardona's group had the original
sin of not being a legitimate Cuban organization. Moreover, there is
another tning about his group which many Cubans have never forgiven --
that is that at the moment of the invasion they were practically locked
up by American authorities someplace in Florida. They were supposed
to be allies but were kept prisoners. I suspect the truth of the
matter is that the Americans who were running the show feared these
Cubang vould talk too much and that their veing put away for 4 few
hours was just ea roughshod way of protecting them against themselves.
But this left & bad taste because it proved that the group was nothing
but @ puppet of the State Department, and Cubans proud of their
sovereignty and their nationalism didn't like it at all.

   
74-00000

Buciosure to
LA-2459-05
5 April 1965

prominence in the Latin community of Los Angeles. I might say it
has also mide we a center of controversy. I've taken some strong
swipes at the Mexican Government because it did not go along vith
the reat of America in breaking relations with Castro. By the sane
token, I have also taken some rather strong awipes at certain areas -
of the American Governwent for things done in Latin America that I
feel were grave wistakes.

kh, I consulted beforehand, however, vith a number of people
Om & personal basis to know if I had the right to discuss American
politics, since I ag not an American citizen. I was told that this
was a free country, and that as long as I’ didn’t violate any lave
of the country I could speak on anything I pleased, and that it
would be judged in regard to good taste, or bad taste; but not that
I was doing anything illegal. So, being respectful of American laws,
. I've taken advantage of the fact that I live in a free country, one
~ E like very much, because I think I'm doing some good.
.
5. With reference to the Mexican community, in general, it's a
matter of orienting a million and a half people who were born with
@ hatred of the US. Host of those that come here from Mexico have
been brought up with a deep-seated resentment against the Yankee.
Our program has shown this to be tremendously strong and I make a
special effort to tell them that the cause of their woes ig not the
Yankee; it’s their own lack of education because thelr government
for many years has kept them in a kind of an intellectual serfdom.
So, I'm not popular with many Mexicans, who accept whatever their
government says is good for them. I argue that you do not accept
the word of the government as the word of God; that you discuss
and argue with your government if you don’t agree, and that is what
keeps the administration on its toes. This is not the way it works
in Mexico which is not a democracy, but a kind of a civilian monarchy
in which the monarch or the king changes every six years, but the
monarchy reigns on, that is, the Partido Revolucionairo Institucional,

the PRI. 80 wuch for Mexico.

 

6. Now, regarding Cuba, The reason I-wanted to have a chat with
you is because there is something imminent as far as Los Angeles is
concerned, und due to our fricndly relations I want to inform you
beforehand so that you would know from we and not from the press.

I refer to the fact that we're trying to create what will amount to
a Cuban Government in exile. This is aot news because it has been
going on for about three or four months, but what is important is
that I have Jumped the gun on the leadérs in Miami, and am scheduling

Shorts ss aay

 
 

 

Enclosure to
W-258-05
® April 1955

an election without their particular approval, tut without their
Specific disapproval either. They have asked me to wait and talk
to Dr. Prio and the other leaders in Miami who are vorking on this,
but I refuse to delay any longer.

7. First, let*s answer one question -- why @ government in exile?
Well, everything else seems to have failed. Since the Castro takeover -
in Cuba the first big thing I can remember was the Bay of Pigs. Well,
that story is pretty vell known. The reasons why the Bay of Pige
failed I think were covered beautifully in an article by a Cuban
attorney entitled, "Decision for Disaster: At Iast The Truth About

The Bay of Pige," in Reader's Digcest for September 1964. Up to now.

this hag been the most complete and factual article I have read on
the Bay of Pigs. I have double-checked with pany Cubans who were
involved and they tell we this account is absolutely accurate, except
for one point. It does not say why the Kennedy edministration cut
down the second and third waves that were originally scheduled. The
information I heard from other sources is that there was a very heated
argurent between Adlai Stevenson and President Kennedy. Stevenson had
gone on record that the first wave of bombers that hit Cuba prior to
the invasion vere flown by defectors from the Cuban Air Force.
Apparently he did not know that this was part of the overall CIA
operation. When he learned of this, I'm told, he got very, very
upset, being a man of great pride, and that in his rather strong
argument witao President Kennedy about the point, he threatened to
reveal the whole plot in front of the world and resign as Ambassador
to the United Nations if there were any wore such bombings. I under-
stand President Kennedy feared a scandal, and gave the orders that
resulted in the Bay of Pigs disaster. -I don't know if this ia true

or not but I put it here because it makes a lot of sense and tenda

to relieve the Awerican intelligence groups of the blame they’ve been
carrying on their shoulders since the Bay of Pigs invasion, but that's

beside the point.

8. The next big moment of Cuban hope of liberation vas the
October 1962 missile crisis. We all know what happened there, and
wany of us Cubans fee) that the administration wade another grave
gistake because many very important people in the adainistration
do not understand the mechanics of the Communist mind. At the time
in which the so-called eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation came abaut
the Soviets promised to take the missiles out, and to permit some
international organization to inspect the island, etc. Of course,
the question is -- why did the American Government retreat or lift

-3-
 

)

 

TA-294 -65

Le 7 April 1965

ile

1. The follow: and the enclosure, presumbly are of
interest to WH Division, et al.

2. The enclosure, for retention, is the edited results of
& meeting dur: the late evening and the early morning of 24-25
Mar 65 betvee of the IAFO and Fil Rivero. The latter
wust be a familiar nawe those involved in Cuban activities. The
weeting was taped, transcribed and edited, all of which took much
more time than hed been anticipated; ergo, the delay.

3. In resume, enclosure reports the background of various
attempts, or opportunities missed, to overthrow the Castro regine,
Rivero’s opinions of why they failed, and his intention of
initiating a final try. On the basis of encouraging responses
to a couple of spot radio announcements in Ios Angeles and similar
experiences in Miami and New York, he has plans to poli all Cuban -
exiles in Southern California.in a rather well thought out electio )
on Sunday, 25 Apr 65. Qualified voters will select some 20 or so |
anti-Castro Cubans from possibly 100 eligibles who, in essence,
will represent the Cubans in exile aad, when politic, a government
in exile. The enclosure seta out the mechanics of the election,
anticipated activities of the representatives in the US and in
latin American countries, the formation of Cuban-latin brigades,

training facilities, and invasion preparations.

4, Since preparation of the above, Rivero advised on 7 Apr 65
that Prio hse proposed an alternate plan for elections on 2 May
of a group of 25 people to be chosen from @ pre-selected 50. There
will be 16 nowinees of political or revolutionary background from
which eight will be elected; 10 from the “new generation” - 5 will
be chosen; 3 from 6 industry-commerce nominees; and the sane number

- frou labor, the professions and the press. The man with the greatest

nueber of votes will be the “Delegate” of the exiles, patterned
somewbat on Jose Marti'’s “delegate” status prior to the Spanish
American War. The remaining 24 will be his coumittee,

 

A sf .

ISR
 

([toctoteo-t0063] yt

' .
Filiberte Rybero

 

‘ MsStimtr/bm, Support Br., CD/00 2270
1 .
os_ iO “
fs) This is on your old case on '
Ome mes Filiberto Ray. i
_
|
d
}
i
i
i

=)

y8R
 

TA-296-65
7 April 1965

5. Rivero regards the above as one more Prio device to
assure himself effective control of the exile movement's
operations, and the election a dishonest affair in tliat
voters really have no choice.

6. Rivero, despite Prio's plans, is going shead with his
own 25 April balloting. He has since, with the help of forwer
Cuban jurists, wodified as follows the plan as presented in

enclosure.

a. Each of the Caribbean Governuents willing
to assist in providing facilities (when the operation
gets to that point) will be invited to provide a
delegate who with the other Caribbean representatives
will constitute s Council of the Caribbean to sit
with the exiles’ junta. In addition to being the
focal points for liaison, they will also have power
to veto exile activity they believe not to be in the
best interests of the Caribbean. Appeal would be
through OAS for resolution.

b. If and when the exiles invaded Cuba, the
Junte and the Council would together oversee a
provisional government until a constitutional
assembly could create a formal government.

7. Rivero is discouraged by Prio's plana as well as by
what he suspects are efforts by elements of the US Government
to keep the exiles divided and to make impossible any organiza-

tion remotely resembling a government in exile or even - of exiles,

It is his intent, at least at the moment, to criticize Prio!é
plans in his next radio program.

8. In the event interested parties might prefer to hear
the tape in addition to the edited transcript attached, we will

forward it.

~ end -

Encl: ‘Transcription of Tape by Fil Rivero

  

 

 
74-0000

g

.to any orgenizations vhatsoever.

  

' Enclosure te
TA-294-65
5 April 1905

1. For your information, I am Filiberto Rivero. I ama citizen
of Cuba by birth; born 29 Aug 1913, and a permanent resident of the US
since 1949. I am warried to an American, have an American daughter, and
I've lived in California practically since I arrived in the US, except
for two or three short vieits to Cuba prior to 1959. At present I have
no political affiliations either in:@ijbe.or elsevhere, and I do not belong
For a time, however, I was President of

the Cuban Catholic Center in Ios Angeles, an archdiocesan organization

' greated to provide Cuban refugees with a place to meet, and help each

other find jobs, ete. ll

2. About four years ago I started a lecture tour, prompted dy
people like the Kiwanis, Chambers of Commerce, etc., to try to explain
the Cuban situation. For the last two years I have had a radio progres
on Station KWKW, Pasadena, Sundays, 1900-1930. It's a sort of nevecast
of Iatin America called “Nuestra America al Dia", or “Our America to
Date", In that program I do a kind of resume of the important events
of the week in Iatin America, concentrating cn Cuba. Cuba is in the
headlines much of the time, legitimately is important news and is the
source of {important news; also I'm extremely interested in the problems
of my country. I should aleo say that I am a strong believer in the
American system of government and wish that my little country could
have done as well, i.e., had a two-party system with elections every
four years, after which they would bury the politica] hatchets and go
to work, But it hasn't worked out like that. I have strong views on
some points of American politics. If I was a Republican I would be a
Iiberal Republican; if I was a Democrat I would be a Conservative
Democrat. That's ss close as I can describe my political thinking.

One final thing, I have never been in jail and I've never been in

any trouble,

 

3. Now with that little background I should add that I have ceen
the only radio or IV voice in Los Angeles attempting to explain the ups
and downs of latin Arerican politics and this has given me a dit of
recognition. Also since October 1964 on Monday nights, from 2100 to
2400, E have had a program with a Mexican, Roberto Iglesias, who is
an American cititen by convettence, in ny opinion, that is, and not
by conviction, although we are friends. We started a program of
telephone conversations in which people would call and comment on
any subject on politics -- national, local, or Latin American -- as
they pleased. This program, which is also on KWKW, has enjoyed a
fantastic and unexpected success, and it brought me to some additional

feos oan ue UNEY eer nae

we
