13-00000

te SECRET

  
       
       
 

0. SEK Team is curzently. reviewing
orice with, . the Agency ‘and ARRB will

ore uae All Agency

 
  
    

n Records: at. the.13: April meeting.

é.that a ‘generi DO. organization chart

ed in lieu of the records. in’ ‘contention. The chart

would. inGlude those components that were involved in the

Oswald story and anti-Castro activities. These JMWAVE and

. ... DO organization charts have been the subject of several

. discussions and meetings with the ARRB staff over the past
few months. The ARRB staff is clearly leaning toward
recommending that the JMWAVE chart be released; an actual
vote on these records by the Board will not take place until
the May. meeting.

 

  

A. ARRB Request, CIA-IR. -15, Mexico City Tapes.
: . -This.request asked for a thorough search of, Agency files and
- documents for and CIA “surveillance “take' from Cuban and
-~ Seviet. facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald
‘visit and in the immediate wake of the assassination.”
Among the items. provided by the DO were five boxes
containing audio tapes from tel-tap on Cuban and Russian
- - embassies and facilities. A number of the tapes are dated
22 November 1963; many others are dated 23 November 1963
through December 1963.

Status and “Issues ‘<The ARRB ‘staff has asked the question,
hat= could possibly be sensitive or classified on the tapes
iven that we have acknowledge afunilateral) tap on the
embassies and the existence of the tapes is public
~ knowledge. fr plan any additional information from the DO,

   
  

  

 

the ARRB staff/plan oO present the issue to the Board at
the 13 April m ng and request that it declare at least

SECRET
104-10331-10149

 

ae ° SECRET

 

  
  

 

“April 1998

 

‘Chief, IRG/OIM

Within it

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

' Status and Issues: ‘The ARRB ) state has agreed to recommend

- to. the Board that the information related to those covert

» actions: be considered non-related and the documents
Gesignated “Not Believed | Related” (NBR). The document will
be

; ‘Alias Documentation and Accommodation
“The security file of former Agency employee,
David Morales (deceased ~-- true name already released),
within the sequestered collection contains documentation on
five of his alias. We anticipate similar problems as we re-
review other security files within the sequestered
collection. The ARRB staff has proposed a compromise
resolution to this problem as follows:

-~ Protect all references to ‘official! {documents
reflecting the alias such as (SSN, Drivers Permit, etc.77

 

 

-- Release items designated as pocket litter such as
club cards, etc.;

-- Protect elements of accommodation addresses to avoid
identifying specific locations; and

-- Then make a decision to actually release or protect

the alias itself depending on the timeframe and its
importance to the JFK story.

CL BY: +» (0611637.

CL REASON: 1.5 C
DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: Multiple

SECRET
13-00000

i

a

\

SECRET

the tapes from 22 and 23 November to be Assassination
Records. A vote on releasing the tapes will be delayed
until the May meeting.

(S)} : 5. {LITAMIL-9/ -- a CIA Penetration jof the Cuban
(Embassy. The identity of /LITAMIL-9 was inadvertently
released in 1993. He is now/identified in true name as a
CIA agent fin John Newman's book, Oswald and_the CIA. [As Of
1993, {LITAMIL- 9} was still alive, living in and
he has family in (Cuba } Up to now, the ARRB Board has agreed
to protect his identity and crypt and delay the release of
his 201 file until the Agency could make some judgments
about the potential damage created by the release on
additional documents with his name/crypt in them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Status and Issues: The ARRB has requested that we address
LI-9/ issue at the May meeting. The DO has confirmed that
LI-9/is still alive and living in The HRP/DO
JFK teams are currently reviewing é and other /LI-9
material in the file. It is unlikely that the Board would
agree to delay release until 2017, however, there is
precedent for delaying release of records on individuals for
shorter Periods or until death.

 

 

_ Gibson, who presently
‘ives in aonend Gi is a left wing journalist who was mw shg
associated with the Fair Play For Cuba Committee (FPFCC), an,.
entity to which Oswald wrote letters and claimed to be a *
member. Gibson did not become an Agency asset until after;~
(the assassination, however;he had been of interest to the —
FBI when he headed the FPFCC. Unfortunately a combination {| ;
of previous releases and release by the Board led to press /
reports in 1994/1995 about his relationship with the CIA. At /’'
ithat time, CIA officers were dispatched to advise him abour /
(the possible compromise and promise him the very best
lattempt at protecting the relationship. ARRB also agresd d 7?
‘to delay the release of any additional information until the /

 

agency and FBI had determined the full extend of the files

ion Gibson and the potential damage.
ON :

 

 

F
‘Status afd Issues: ~ The Gibson ‘documents “are scheduled for *
“ARRB action at the May meeting. It appears to be possibles-_

(to reléase Gibson's role in the JFK assassination story and >
) protect his relationship with the Agency in our JFK fo \
assassination records; however, the FBI has a four volumes” ~

file which covers both FBI interest and Gibson's SA

‘relationship with the Agency: The HRP/DO JFK teams are °
currently reviewing the Gibsofi material arid I will be
meeting with the FBI to review what they are releasing on”
Gibson and the disposition of their file. +/ oe

Lo ee

 

 

   

AA. eee - ce

SECRET
 

    

tae SECRET

The chronological files of C. Tracy. ‘Barnes, 1959- 1964
Office Of. General Counsel; =; Lawrence’ Houston, 1959- 1964"
Wi 1962-1963.

  

as‘ developed ethodology: eaet the y seem overly provides’ the .

“access required by. the Board: and guarantees. that’ their
“veview is focused. The request is for access to review the

files for possible assassination related material and the
Board has no interest in reviewing multiple files which have

3 mothing to, do with the assassination story... A. meeting is

held between | the ARRB staff, HRP JFK team and the

 

- appropriate. RO“to. discuss: the scope of the: request.

Usually, the’ ARRB staff are first provided shelf lists,
indexes, records lists, etc. for the purpose of
narrowing/selection what they think is important. HRP
assist the IRO or component representatives in reviewing
the selected files to ensure they deal with appropriate
subjects and timeframes. Once access is approved, the
appropriate IRO and component sets up a file review session
with the ARRB staff. If material requested is particularly
sensitive, access can be limited to the ARRB Executive
Director or members of the Board. Any records selected as
Assassination Records are subject to review under the JFK
Act. This process has be used for numerous requests for
access including DCI McCone Files, Family Jewels materials,
histories and security files

SECRET
