74-0000

   

reason and for AMWHIP-s own business matters, we will programs

his return to Europe for sometime during the first or second :

weeks of March 1965. AMWHIP-1 was told that arrangements would be

-made for him t6 know about, or actually to meet., the ostensible -
“: “Source of this information in New York sometime during the last

week of February or the first week of March, He was told also

to keep in touch with the undersigned in the event of any
Y ews received from Europe concerning AMLASH-1 or any of the

' cast of characters in this memorandum.

 

we ‘a ‘The sieeting terminated at 1610 hours and. there ene
..2O incidences of a security. nature to be _Fepor ted. .

 

 

 

HH C7 F 17 TC =~
 

 

: peopentinetan

‘Fa response to
" oUwithout (UNSNAFU-19 being sus

He felt that te do this by. telephone or letter would be totally
- out of keeping. with his normal relationship with GSpNAFU-19

 

agreed with the feasii

. Europe in two or three weeks especially to perform thi as!

‘should not take place at least until after the 24th of February

  

fle Ye1t that he could be nore effect

   
 
  

involving only wen.

     

ed that the case officers wére ;
7 Tova probiens and ‘could.
peespely was,desirable to AMWHIP=t
HIB 2 delicately perth

 
 
   
 
 

se ja
: pee :

 

  

  

 
 

established. ag’ 6:
ov ‘to: infora ‘pea

 
 
   
    
  
  

"ANBEDDY-1- pre Siaatly has the details for x
once he is informed:of thé Keyzerd by AMWHIP-1. The Attempt is
to be noted by any mention of the name SIMON; together \ with a date,

which is IT.
az ;
Loy (Rumor plant with ANSNAFU-19),

 

  

p. Deception

   

aifter it had been outlined ‘as. ‘agreed upon at Headquarter
AMWHIP-1 stated that he. “thought that he could carry thi
dous. He stated that this ty

of information would have ‘to come forth at the right. moment in
a@ natural manner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.

 

and that it should not..be done’ in that manner, O@an response .t
the ‘Suggestion, however, aid that it could be done. aft his *:
stopping off in Paris to seé (UNSNA |AFU-19 took place as a part of
a normal business trip.to Europe ‘He also stated that he felt -
he had to have somethi € hich to peg the story. . “AMWHIP-1

ey. of “the Suggestion of putti
touch. With a reputablé buSinessman in’ New York, who has ‘g
connections in Government ‘circles in Washington and, wh
conceivably could have Known for some time as a result Of
normal business relationship. AMWHIP-1 agreed to return:t

 

   

    

 

He was in agreement with the undersigned's idea that f2in. orde
to play it as safely as possible, this meeting with @SSNAFU-.

the expected return date of AMLASH-1 to Havana... Both

   

   
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

¥ .

 

‘ diséussions ‘concerning the AMBIDDY/AMLASH relationship, AMEE

- Europe in whom there was an inte: nd to whom AMSHIP-1 had -
access. He emphasized that (paris)! Re officer and

: has dealt) was very helpful-and that he enjoyed their relation:

: ‘ 46
had to appéai to him for heip # ‘Yaising the money in a
confidentiai manner. Arrangenents to give ANLASH-1 money
during his stay in Madrid bad “fallen “through, ANWHEP -had:
learned, thus the reason: for AMWHIP-2's being forced toe ge
to Paris in order to give it to him this weekend. ANWHIP-1
also stated that AMLASH-1 had asked Jose Iglesias in Havana
for some 3,000 pesos. Iglesias was not able to raise the sum
_at the time requested. Whether or not. he is attempting to. do
so now, or has succeeded in doing ‘so during ANLASH-1's 2 f
is not known at this time. -1t, Should be noted that durin

stated that AMBIDDY had told-AMLASH of at least some portion of ©
his: connections with the Americans. AMWHIP-1 stated that he had
sat in on the discussions during which time AMBIDDY purportedly
made this statement. AMWHIP also. stated, as he had:-done ia -
Previous meetings, that neither he or ANLASIT could understand |
why the Americans. did ‘make further.use of AMLASH-3 and

AMLASH-2. He also fe¥t: 01 were many bits and pie

of the whole picture that were not tied into a neat bundle ‘and ~
utilized to their full extent by the Americans. The undersigned
at no time admitted that: he. was. aware of any AMBIDDY/Amer ican ~

relationship as alluded to 7 ANWHIP-1.

©. For. the record, AMWHIP-1- again stressed the fact that.
he felt. that he could produce more information and better serve
XUBARX interests if he had a case officer who knew all’ aspects -
of the AMLASH complex and the cast of other Cuban characters ‘in’

    

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 

Presumably other European-based ‘case of ficers@3with whom he-

 

but that there was an obvious lack of depth of knowledge of aii i.
aspects of an AMLASH-AMWHIP operation and also of those principally.

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
    
 

 
   
    
  

oTCUSSNAFU-19,. ia person, nor. Iglesias, by phone,” wou

      

 

AWHIP alsoygt

value of the worke
that this sale:
personally and. aid REC eeecanily veflect the overa:
financial picture of the Cutan government .— AMWHIP~]
that AMLASH-1-:had told him that such an action was. typical -
of Castro, wi in many’ | instances, conducted business at
arrangements of his own, without regard or without. cons tition, ,
with the members of his goxdrnmere norma Lly.
national ‘finances. ig a atete that roe
intimated the \ above: te

 
  
    
       
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 

  
  

  

which had been purch
He also stated that he

the processing of agricultural products of some type.
concerning the silver, according to AMWHIP-1, that 30% had.
been reduced to bullion. and that the rest consisted of
silver: articles - (antiques, Freasares, wjewélry, -
AWWHIP stated ‘that this — eatt ffering qu
had eventually been sold oa the spot in Havana for ‘cash. to~
an unknown person. .of Turkish/Italian background. AMWHIP .
tried to Find outthe identity of the person. but neither

 

 
 
    

 

reveal the Adentity, of. the buyer. AMWHIP-1 offered t
or ask, Iglesias. >i the name; but we cautioned ag inst |
as showing undue interest in the matter. -AMWHIP-1-was ‘told
that if he. ever saw Iglesias in- person and could safely ask
him he should do so together with any details he could - - -:"-
obtain about the transaction, as it was related to Cuban ft

fisancial problems. AMBHIP<1 stated that on his” ‘retura to —

 

 

   
  
 

#4-90009

1S tan

  

SHAY: in dete |
f= 8 s v og to

     

  
 
  
  
   

 

ws the fact that He had. even centered into negotiations “wi
objecting to his “political mentality’. It might be ‘noted tha
AMWHIP-1 also stated his-reservations about ANBIDDY-1. . Fr
this, we derived the feeling that AMLASH-1 and AMWHIP-1 both
had strong but tDopo ait Feservations about the motivation ‘an

   

  
    
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   

 

AMLASH feit that fe seers pushed by the Anericans into
basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-1. AMWHIP-1 stated
that he, as well as AMLASH-l were still baffled at the American
reluctance to deal across: the board on all matters with -
AMLASH-1. He stated that AMLASH-1 had received certain i
from: AMBIDBY. 4
AMWHEP-1 made-i# a point to ‘state that AMLASH-1 soted .{umediatel:
and pointedly that the items provided to him by AMBIDDY- i were .
not homemade nor apparently one-of-kind items. (the inference here

being quite clearly conveyed | to-the undersigned was that these -
ial sources.)

 

    
 

   
 
   

   

mo 0 The. Subject. of. the Funds Requested by. ANLASH.~ AMWHIP
'. stated that se were absolutely necessary for AM to keep.

people of his cholic iin particular jobs where they * could be of

 

 
 

-2-

ge . of

- b. In discussing @UHOPS' desire to cooperate, AMWHIP
stated that QUHOPS would do what he could to help but that
in exchange for this he wanted to get his wife, two children,
and his motherrin~laweto the United States along with himself.
AMWHIP-1 stated that QDHOPS' Plan in brief was to accept
the guard duty on Sunday thus making probably only himself
and the wife of code. clerk present in the embassy. We -
‘thanked AMWHIP for his information and suggestions and
Stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate parties

concerned.
ab

: roy (AMLASH=1's""% n") AMWHIP-1
stated that-ne-nad no information o in whom
Nestor Sanchez has an Operational interest wit regard to his
(Sanchez') pending PCS to(Garacas, Venezuela.)

the

. d. "Venezuelan" Returning from Moscow. Regarding the
Venezuelan who has reportedly to have just come from Moscow
and returning to Cuba, AMWHIP-1 stated that he had no
information to contribute about the man. He did Say, however,
that one time duringphis recent trip to the Cuban Embassy
Paris talking with CUNBNAFU-19, the Ambassador had interrupted
their conversation in order to talk to two men (about 30-35

 

‘years old). AMWHIP-1 met them briefly and was told by one

of them that they were from Oriente Province. AMWHIP~1
stated that he could tell immediately by their accents
that they were not Cuban. In order to confirm this he
asked them where in Oriente they were from because one of the
Cuban officials in Paris was from Oriente and always wanted
to chat with any people from Oriente who passed through Paris.
After a brief stumbling exercise, groping for a name of a
city in Oriente, the "Cuban" confessed that they were not
Cubans but Venezuelans. AMWHIP did not have suffident time
to learn more about them.o2The two Venezuelans Spent about
thirty minutes talking with CUNBNAFU-19 while AMWHIP was there.
He did not know how much longer previous to this thirty
minutes that the Venezuelans had been in thed mbassy or to whom
else they talked. AMWHIP-} suggested that (UNS NAFU-9 might
be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelans in question.
of a~

e. (QNSNAFU-19's Membership’ iat the “Gaslight Club",

As a support service for a ris Station)jopera tion to get

 

© UCUNS NAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be

attempted to run a highly desirable female agent against him.
AMLASH-1 stated that he had been unable, due t PUNBNAFU-19's
busy schedule, to get the latter down to the Gaslight Club
and enrolled as a member. AMWHIP stated, however. that he
could do the job just as well by taking out a gift membership
forXUNSNAFU-l92through the Gaslight Club in New York City,
and sending (SSNAFU-19's membership card and key to him in
Paris. We eficouraged AMWHIP-1 to do this and to keep us
advised of his progress.

 
 

 

ean

104-10183-10393

 

(oj

of: AMLASH-1 AMWHIP-} was told we were looking into
and also into(QUMOPS-1, Attache Cuban Embassy |

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Nat Reproduce

mh

 

\ 3 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

_ SUBJECT: AMWHIP-1 Meeting, New York City, 19 February 1965

i ote : - oo.
1. Weeting/Time/Place and Purpose: This meeting was

“held in the offices o =I from 1350 to 1610 hours.

Purpose of the meeting was to attempt to satisfy juirements

 

‘levied by Nestor Sanchez, WH/SA/SO, on events which took --

place during ANWHIP-l's most recent sojourn in Europe (January=
February 1965) in company with AMLASH-1. Meeting was also . :
used to determine AMWHIP-1's willingness to participate in the
“discord program" us ing UNS NAFU-19 as the unwitting recipient
of certain runiors, the tails, of which are covered in

subsequent paragraphs.
2. It might be noted for the record that this meeting was

scheduled for the morning of 18 February, but due to

ANNHIP-1 missing the scheduled flight from Miami, the meeting
was postponed until the above time. 2

   
 

Details of. the Meeting

3. The following information on the various- topics ag
indicated concern basically those requirements which have
been intended for, and levied on, AMLASH-1. However, due to
the fact that AMWHIP-l was together in Europe with AMLASH=1,—
AMWHIP-1:'was: debriefed oa the requirements on the outside |
chance that he might hdve some complimentary information, on them.

 

. a. Cuban Diplomat in
MVHIP-1 was Un: 7 any additional information on
ashe had not met the man in Europe and does not remember

iaving met him in Havana. (AMWHIP-1 stated that AMLASH-1

claimed that he (AMWHIP-1} had in fact met ra “number

of years ago in Havana, but AMWHIP says he truly does not
remember.jthe man.) He stated that any additional information
on jrould haveto come from either AMLASH-1 or AMLASH-3.
In hing) or cooperation, AMWHIP strongly
suggested that 1t would be best to usegAMLASH-3 for the

initial contact. AMWHIP stated that new AMLASH-3 well
and that he was a trusted representative (and therefore anti~

 

 

oe : o VER

  

 
74-00000

 

 

 

 

 

". a Comandante Lah that ‘ontie Or @ nase that

  
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

 
 

that

  

‘ard sopething about. a Ce
ia-not ‘contribute more &¢
nig)

: a ¢
‘ Africas’ trip i ty. ago: the oné to chia:
his security Af said that-the mands
with him Bad “he ‘had 9 other information to gi
suggested that AMLASH-i might be able to help.
ANWHIP said was that “did oot. think that any ‘of,
men were named Bernis, and he thought this was not .
name. He did say, however, that while he was in Paris- there had ~
been two security types there who were guarding two or: thre 7
dark green trunks about, the size of foot lockers and’ “four 2
five suitcasés. AWEHIP:said that they both ha i is
‘Soviet machiné pistol and the other a 32 calibs
remember the exact da that they left Paris-
remembers that thé flight. left: at 4:50 in the aft
om took place about ‘two weeks ago (ca. 5 February). °
(UNBNAFU-9 knows both of these men and could be contacte
names and a better Sescription.

    

 

    

 

   

h. Carlos Franqui. AMWHIP-1 had no additional
information on Franqui except to say that he knew he wa
happy. He also ‘beFieved that “AMLASH-1 had addi tio
on Franqui.

 

    

4. BE : Locomotives. ¥ith regard. “¢
concerning’ security neasures on the shipment of
Cuba, AMWHIP said that he had no additional infora

contribute. ‘A iL alsa. statedgthat he had” obtained ‘no additional”

 

information fr the (engineer)concerned® ‘wit
to, and the use of. these locomotives. ANWHIP stated that he
thought AMLASH-1 might hav; ome additional informatio .. AMWAIP. -
also wi he though talks too much and’ hates. S
maybe uid be best to assist in the operation..
(Comment: See ‘Ronis for further edification of the. subjec ?

   

  
  
 
  

 
 

0%

~4-

    

Jj. AMLASH-1’s Accommodation Address Arrangements.
AMWHIP-1 stated that he had reviewed accommodation ifesses
with AMLASH-1 and had given appropriate instructions to ,
AMKHIP-2 in the event of the receipt of letters from

Havana signed by A H-1 or Signed by a "Cuban" whom,
AMWHIP-2 did not &) + (Comment: it was a good thing we
reviewed accommodation addiéess with AMWHIP-1, see below.).
For the record AMLASH-l will address his letters to, AMWHIP-2
either in care of his business address in Rome which is: .

  

  

Cavaliere Hilto.
Jewelry Shop
Monte Mario
Roma

or to AMWHEP=2's business address in Geneva (which incidentally
is identical with His home address, as AMWHIP-2 operates in
Geneva from his apartment): ue _Crespi en i

(It should be noted that AMWHIP-2 intends to open a proper
office in Geneva in: the ear future. However, this is no
Particular reason for changing the accommodation address in
Geneva.) AMWHIP-1 stated that he had given the undersigned's
postoffice box ain Washington (William A. Thompson, P.O. .
Box 7224 Apex Station, Washington, D.C. to AMWHIP-2, believing
that this would expedite our receipt of letters from AMLASH-1,
AMWHIP~1 was told that his concern for rapid transmittal of
the letters was certainly appreciated, but that for security
Sake, it was much better that they be forwarded in a cover
envelope to. AMWHIP's address in New York City,-preferably,

his business address. AMWHIP was also told to remind
AMMHIP-2 that he'should handle the letters he received from
Havana as little as possible and put them in cover enve Lopes
and send them as quickly as possible to AMWHIP-1 in New York
City. In this connection it remains the problem of obtaining
these letters on a expeditious basis when AMWHIP-1 is, for
example, out of town for a prolonged absence. [It is

Suggested that William Thompson's accommodation business

in Washington be given to AMWHIP's father so that he may
forward AMWHIP-2's letters to Washington without undue delay.
(This is an excellent example of a breakdown in compartmentation

in Cuban operations.) ’

k. Paris Embassy Personnel. According to a telephone
call on 18 February from AWLASH-T in Paris, ANWHIP-1 stated
that AMLASH-1 had said that GgSAFU-8 and, perhaps @NBNAFU-9
would. be out of jobs in the ne future in accordance with
the present economy drive by the Cubans, AMLASH stated that
(NSNAFU-8 most certainly would be ousted, while (USB NAFU-9's
case was more uncertain, oe

 
