 

SECRET
¥ CATE CH REQUEST
| 30 Dec 63
Due DATE
Si Dee 63
“| DATE RECEVED ~

Duncan. Stevart | : “ a 30 Bec 63°

"REQUEST #£CEIVED BY (Name! [REFERRED FOR ACTION TO ve TST PROWECT. NAME
SECTION $: m/. OF CRYPTO

NAME GF kEQUESTORIACTERNATE

 

eee ee eee a
TYPE OF “UPFORT AUTH (J Ch SSCA EJ

 

. REQUEST wiciade. hae 2 of stems, number of vem, “purpose items wil serve, “document “country, “se Country « ee

tae repmator called SOHN ak tppeecinnbely 1430; 30 Decesbar 1963 ant asked
for am oral response to the folloving questions:

1. Does the "de plus the date” (until plus tho dete) in the OVIR (Visa anf
Pegistretion Section) registration pleced in a Poreimer's paasport in Moscoy moan

that he met leave the country by wicnight of the preceeding date or on the date
indicated?

2 What is OVIR?

3. Yow many OVIR‘'s are there in Moscov?

& Where ere they located? are either of the folloving OVIR edérecses?
&  Ogareva Ulitsa; b. Kolpachnyy pereulok 49

5.  Doea the following have any significance?
"FZha-DA. VLIIEDA" 1

The caso involves en American toi bo visited Moseoy in October 1959. His
=. apove questions are based on @ note book

 

TP RECORD OF ACTION

hept by the tourist. He was issued a Soviet visa in a foreign country (umspecified)
valid for oix (6) days after crosaing the Soviet border. Ghe Moscow OVIR registretion
imifeated that he could stay in the coumtry until the 22nd (do 22-0gp}, presumably
of. October: 1999)... Io hud -his-viea extended, but possibly errancously, “the Oiad was‘
once again entered as the “do” date. He wes subsequently informed that he would have
to leave the covntry by midnight of the Qlet. (Somehow he managed to stay on. Tip
éetaile vere provided).

Qa arrival, in Moscoy (He ves alone) he vas met by an intourict guide vho took
him to a hotel. Information concerning a hotel registration was not evalleble.
Requestor ai not mow if the visa wns 6 tourist vicu (i.e. mirked tourist).

 

D108 (den. “63) : SECRET

 

danngrading end declosufieation

!
:
i
:
i
i
i
t

 

 

 
    

. <s : . se i iss isha sata acne soecetbar recap
escerne meee oie an ARLEN EERE TERI A LRH IRE REE ame BaP INR PIRES °

. rane -
Solan] ' :

fnever ~ Ro information. : i
7 Naditional Information - the 1957 teloptene directory and the
: igh eddreds book for tnecow locate the following MVD organs
i a3 followa:
Glavaoye Usrevlentye Militel!, MVD SceR + ul. Ogareva, €
; Upravlentye Militeis, 2D ROFCR - ul. Ogareva, 6
Uprevieniye Ymitremukh fel ispolkosa Nesobleoveta - ul. Delinskoge, 3
Pasportnyy Otdel UVD Ispelkoms Mocoblsoveta - Nuragovekiy p., 12 7
Upravlentye Viartremukh Del Ispulkom Mosgorvoveta - Petrovia, 30 ; ,
Pasportnyy Ctdel UVD Ispolkoma Moegorsoveta ~ Leningradakiy Progp., 16 |
FRO UYD MosobLispoliona ~ 2-aya Mechehanciayn, 97 ok.
PRO UWD Hosgorispolioma - Leningredakeye She, 22
i

i Btol Rakbiok (Lost and found Buresu?) UYD Moagoriepolkoma - Putrovia, 33
(for information concerning lost documents) Po
Question FE, Is there an OVIK in Hinek? .

Angeer © The available informetion indicates thst en O7IR was i
lecated in Hinsk in 1955. Ite validating cachet maber we 309. io

|
Question Fs Teer the “éo plus the dete” (until plus tne date) i
im the OVIR registration placed ina “Foreimer' & passport in !
Moscow mean that he mst lesve tha comtry by sidnight of the |
i
{
i

 

preceding date or on the date indicated?

Attachment to: TS timo Bo. 6633

 

 

   
sig te

anever - A reviev af © masher of legal traveler dovmenta
indicates that although many people Lesve eoveral days -prisr
to ov right on the day preceding the "én" date, just as many
leave on the “do” Gate and e few oven soveral daye after.

These latter instances could be due to the inck of available —
transportation leaving the USSR. Jt is TOD/TS's belief that. .

@ treveler cas be required to leave by midnight of the day
presiding the “de” date.

fed tions] Informntion ~ An erres siniler t that mentioned
in cur diseussioa 1.6. G¥I% enterixg the wrong date in the
vies extension, bas twen noted in the post. bother this wae
iutentioual or simply an exrromeous catry cemmot be determined.

én OVIR registration is mite valid for te periad
Guthoriaged by the visa. Thus, if the vise suthorizes a 3
Gay stay, the OVIN regictration will be good for FP dnys orem
the date of entry inte a courtry (not from the dete of regia
tration vhich may be severnl days later).

ation G = Dees the following (taken from the tourist's note
eny significance?

“WhA - D. A. VIEERA"

faswer - TED/TS cannet determine tho eignifiemes of this note.

Attachment to: 08 Hens Ho. 6632
Fege «5

ei

 

 
seen ey

nor

SD COMMENT OF OVIR (VISA AND REGIEZPATION FECTION) OF TIE USSR

Your specific questions are anevereé Lelov with additional inferm-

tion related te cach question.

Qeetion A. vhat is OVIR?

Aorver - OFIR is the abbreviation for CTHEL VIZ I REGISTRATCIY
(visa ena registration fection) vhien in 1959 was eubordinate

to the Main Administration of Militia, MVD (}utotry. of Intermed
Affairs) cn the ALL-\nion level and to ofther tho UM (Upravlentye
Militet1) or UVP (Upravlentye Voutrenzikh tel) on Republic,
Cblagt or City leval. ‘the MYD wes replaced by 40OP (-intatries
for the Protection of Publie Order) in the letter part of August
end during feptenber 1562. OVIR's primary Cunction te the
exercise cf control over foreigners in the FCN. Eranchee uf
CVIR are located in ucst of the large cities of the toviet
Unien. fose eerves an entire oblast or repalie rather than

just @ city.

AéAitional Information - A stay in the UDSR, even of short
éuratios requirca (hat the visitor register vith “he covict
@xviorities. Sinse the fall ef 1959 and until feptambor 1962
Wie registretion has taxes two forms, os described below.

1. Rotel Registration - Most tourists heve deen
registered by. the actel.where they spent.their- first might.in--
the USTR, In mony ceses the first hotel recintration is all
that ie plaeed in the tourist's passport recoriless of the
itinerary ef the bearer. In a fev cases subsequent hotel regis=
trations have been adfed. ‘There ig no known reneou fer the
vartones ip procedures. An “intourist” represestetive, a
manber of the hotel administration or possibly aa OVIR repree
settative at hotels may handle hotel registrations end the
Feocing om of those paasports waich require an OV1B extension
oz chee. We are not care of OVIR's role in eimple hotel
registrations. :

Avtactuent to: To Memo Up. 6631
Page -1

  

 

 
 

104-10210-10001

ys ae

:
1
i
:
t
i
:
'
i
i

 

 

 

 

 

US Meso To. 6632
28 January 1964

MEMOHABTUN FOR: aie’, sp/cT
woe Tt yh

ATIEETR =: Me. ‘Duncon Cteaet>

EQBJECT " : Gevict Docuzemtetion informstion Concerning O¥IR
(¥iea ond Fegistrstion Section) of H/D in the
Fall of 1959 - case 4399

REFEREE : Your orel request for T5D/nS Mayport on 59
Decenber 1963. -

1. ‘This mamorendus confine the informmtion passed veroally
to ite. Stewart af SR/CI by Nr. Sowanke of TUD/N on 31 Doemaler
19632. ‘Te information coneinted of TSN/TS coments on qucetions
presented by Hr. Stewart in his vernal request on 30 December 1563.
The attachuent includes edditicnal inferumtioa on OVIR orgenization,
susordiinstion, and fmetions as related to ‘ts control over fore!gn-
ers visiting the USCR. Primary attention will be given the period
(fell 1959) concerned in the request.

2. Please oign the sttacbed original Pequest For TD/DB
Support Fors (D-103) end retura to Top/D2.

3. 2 T2D eamsents are being comsidered for further distri-
bution, {% is requested that the trananitting correspemience he
ecordinated with this offices

hk, pny questions on this matter cen be referred to Messrs.
Boyvarke ar Bagel, extension 2654, 221 weet Out Ballding.

 

 

 

Thier, Tyne
Attechnest: es etated

Motributica:

Original & 1 ~ Addressce v/atte.
1 - 18 File, 1 - 08 Chrono
1- Br Fite, (b> Case 4390
all w/attsy
np/P/TsD/pB/1:D. Powanko:prk

  

 
74-0000

aps ent te Rs E NS
enhance RO NEILL TET LL OL .

 

 

2 OVI fesictretion - Pravelers not having tourist
views (excepting ¢ Gipleatic personel) acraally must resister
with OVI, or with Yo (Paaportne-imgietretsionnry Ctdel -
Peaspert Pegistration Section) which ta suboritonte to Une
Ailitia on eity ext. oblest.levele eniivhich exreacea CVIH
fimetions in thou: mrees sot having an Cvin. ‘this registration
teers place in the city there the first ovarnistt stay ie cme.
Gemreally the authorived itinermuy is placed tn the registree :
tien cachet. in come cases the reqistre$ion io haadled by the '
trereler personally out “Intouriet” acd hotel mitheritdes heave
essisted by paauing the traveler's peasport te CY

 

 

feguniless of type of visa {exeept diploumtic) alt
extensions or changce mct bo made by CVIR. Viner 1900 most
vieitors aimply receive hotel registrations. OVIN entries are
made only when extensions or changes are reulred.

Qmstion BD. Bow my OViRs ero there in Moscow?

fnower «~ Imsed on a review of validating cachet memera, OVIR

i registration mrbess and OVIK officer sicaatures it ia believed

{ thet in 1959 there wes anly om GYIR in Hoocev. 1t was to thio

: offices that pessporte collected by hosels, militia rt '
17 offices (Pasportiyy Stal), bs and the “foreign sections” of '
i onivervities, ware. seat or brought. personally by the bearwr-for~ —
{ i
1

1

|

GVIR registrations or changes.

Msitional Information - 4 eingle OFIR office also soeng the

care ia ceverth Clier erens (Citiee of iennorad.and Kiev, ond. |

the Republica sf Averbeytchen, Lithuania, Laivin, and Ystouin). |

AG least in one exca, Teshhent, Ushek £fR, there te evidence ~

! thet three ceyarnte validating enchet pmiers were ia use Curing ;
i 1953: 118 by OVTR UM (Upravlentye Militsii) Urbek ner, 3h by wt,
: FRO UVD Tashhent Oblast Ispalkoa and £19 by PRO iM Seohkont i
Gorsaveta. i

 

Attachesst to: 03 Homo No. 6632
| Page <2

|
stitial oo , :

 

uy ta be
74-0000

 

 

£11 OVIR registrations, extensions and charyes are :
velidated ty on OVIR cachet. ‘There vers chenses. in tho text .
of these coohets in ioc] end late 1962, The text changes re-
flected govermzent acainistrative recrymmisetions. aca OVIA s
hes a tvo or threes digit mumer vhich ies pert of this :
valifating cachet. ‘dhe mmber epperently change amually.. :

A veview of the O7IR registration mmere in Moacor
ent Legingred revealed that they are issucd in mswerical
order, indienting @ central comtrol ia these cities.

Culy tro diflarent signatares crpear on the approsi- iL
netely SD atPferent 1999 Moscow OVIR cackets reviewed. (ne of i
these was abvays preccded by tbs vord “sa” meaning “for” 1.¢. '
eathorined to sign far. All CYIN recictroetious end changes in :
luecew during 1099 are by CYIR or OVLIT, (the lest letter !
standing for “INCOTRAINT RV” meening for foreignerea), ‘UVD
Mosgersoveta (Moscoy city coumeil). ‘The sienetures noted
ehove appeared interchangoily on both registrations and
changes. Ho Mosesy Oblast registrations were noted.

i

i
As previously noted OVIR regiotretion is noraally \
@everplished at the first cajor city visited by the traveler, |
Qnd ehowla other citiss appear on the treveles's itinerary H
they sre entered on the registretion coaches. Usually no further i
OVIR eatries are ude et the otter cities (excepting ediitional {
hotel registrations: im‘ some iestances) unless the traveler
requsste en extension or change. ilo deregictietion entries
eppaar iz the precport upon departing the USCR.

Question C.  Ubere.ave the.0¥IRs located. in. Nenceet- * ;
Atuwey < the location of the OVIR ia Moscoy ie unimow.

° Quention BD, Ie em O¥IR loosted at either of the following ;
stdreseos?

: 1. Ognrevm Uliten . :
— 2 Eolgachnyy poreulak $9

Attechmens to: TS Homo Ho. 6631 |
: Page -3 | ;

 

 

   
