 

 

ACTION:

. ves
5. [The probable position of the Nenni Socialists at their July
Congress was discussed,

CIA was requested to explore the possibility
of political action at this time designed to
influence a favorable decision by the Congress
concerning the Party's support of NATO and
the West as contrasted with the taking of a
neutral position. As an alternate possibility,
it was suggested that the Party might be
influenced to refrain from making support

of NATO an issue on which the Government
might be brought down. Such a course would
make it possible for the Christian Democratic
Party to conduct its support of NATO even
though the CD are closely associated with the
Nenni Socialists.

McCone stated that Mr. Karamessines
would report on this matter at the earliest
possible time. 7

6. [After a brief discussion on conditions in Haiti, Mr. Bundy

stated that NSAM

would be issued and would impose on CIA

certain responsibilities for covert action among exile groups.

ACTION:

FE

CIA should immediately study the prospect of
creating an exile group around dependable
leadership, prepare a plan, estimate of cost,
and a forecast of success of intervention in
Haiti and make specific recommendations on
course of action if one is indicated, Care should
be taken not to initiate action until policy has
been agreed upon at appropriate levels of
Government and of higher authority, Under no
circumstances should a course of action by
tied to a particular date or be otherwise /
inflexible,

7. fatter a brief discussion of the overflight problem in India, Special
Group urged that CIA seek an appointment with Amb. Bowles prior to his
departure in order to acquaint him with the background of this program, the
history of the attitude of the Indians, the current status and/o her dimensions
of the problem so that he will be fully informed upon his arrival in New Delhi
and will not necessarily be prejudiced by the views of Amb, Gailbraith,

‘

JAM/mfb

Boge.
 

   

Orc!
SeoKe: .
27 June 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group Meeting - 27 June 1963

GS

1, (in connection with the scheduled monthly overflights,
Johnson brought up the question of overflights on Laos and North
Viet Nam, stating that he understood the COMOR requirements for
Laos had been completely filled and nothing was left over, but there
was a requirement for one flight on North Viet Nam. McCone answered
he was not sure but would check up. It was agreed that any unfilled
requirements on Laos would be taken care of.

2. [Reference use of ctEnats in North Viet Nam, this is O,K,,
providing the use is part of a South China mission which then passes
over North Viet Nam, because weather conditions permit, and then
exits... State would not agree to a straight North VietNam-La os

flight flown by ChiNat pilots because of the political implications if

anything happened,
a] G4

3. [fhe program for Labor Training in Spain was O.K./

4, The Cuban program was reviewed by Mr. FitzGerald and
was approved. McCone brought up the question of extensive coastal
defenses being built up by the Cubans as evidenced by the arrival of
new PT boats and advised the Group that we must plan contingent
methods for evading such coastal defenses, Also McCone stated
that he had asked for a review of all reports for the last 90 days
because of his continuing concern over the large number of
unexplained reports we are getting on Cuba which indicates some
ominous situation might be developing.

JAM/mfb
74-0000

 

24 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Special Group 5412 Meeting - 23 May 1963

. g

1, | After general discus wio’ ‘he North Viet Nam paper as presented
by Colby was approved with the exception of Item b. State took the position
that work with isolated ethnic groups in North Viet Nam should not be
undertaken unless specifically approved by the Department. Defense raised
the question of more extensive operations than anticipated by CIA and
indicated that the JCS had developed a plan which would be submitted to
the Secretary of Defense and then to the Special Group. I raised the
question as to whether the General Harkins command working with the
South Viet Nam army could conduct truly covert operations north of the
17th parallel, pointing out that if such actions were attributed to either

‘the United States or the South Viet Namese, then the North Viet Namese

with their substantial military organizations could retaliate against the
South Viet Nam with punishing consequences, The JCS plan was not
formally presented, No actions were taken xeitheax although it is expected
that it will be presented in the near future.

ACTION: General Carter has had this matter under
consideration with Admiral Riley. We
should receive and study the JCS plan
immediately upon its approval.7

2. Defense indicated that the Army have developed plans for large-
scale operations against Cuba involving sabotage. No presentation was made
however the Special Group was advised that such a plan would be forthcoming.

F
3, (Pian for disposing of the 14,000 sacks of sugar in Puerto Rico was
discussed, I explained the actions being taken by DDP under FitzGerald's
direction and indicated the sugar would probably be sold by the Soviets toa

 

 

 

The

 

800 bags in question would be disposed of.7

4. [i reported the current status of British Guiana as outlined in the
attached paper,

ACTION: Mr. Bundy asked that Mr. Helms follow
British Guiana closely and keep in close
communication with me and with him.77
 

oN

informed by Colonel Steakley's office and he was under the impression
at Iwas informed. However, he was on leave and therefore did not

know that I had not been informed.

9. (British Guianz vituation was opened up for discussion and
placed on the agenda for next week. Alexis Johnson reported on
Mr. Burdette's position, substantially parallelling Helms', with the
effect that he was disappointed in the British position, that he felt time
had run in favor of Jagan, and they would like an appeal made to
Macmillan. Bundy took exception. McCone stated that CIA felt much

s. Johnson reported and furthermore objected to the
in its own political actions which would be attributable

both whether they succeeded or failed. It was agreed to place subject
on agenda for next week, 7

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION: Subject should be carefully reviewed by staff.

JAM:bd
 

 

ll April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting, 11 April 1963

1. [Reconnaissance of Laos and North Vietnam was reviewed.
The Group expressed approval of the CIA program. They authorized two
flights over Laos and North Vietnam on the assumption that one of the
NEFA flights would cover the extreme western targets desired by Sarit.
If, on the other hand, the four India - Communist China border flights
were not executed at thistime, then CIA was authorized to fly three
flights over Laos and North Vietnam to cover all of the targets desired
by both Sarit and COMOR.7)

2, [Status of negotiations for India - Communist China recon-
naissance was reported. It was agreed that this question should be
pursued further by CIA. No immediate action was indicated. Dr. Scoville
reported that no further information would be forthcoming from either
India or Thailand until about the 20th of April]

3. Cuban operations. The proposed infiltration-exfiltration
operations, past and projected, were reviewed and approved. The
proposed program of sabotage and harrassment, both the general
program and the detailed plan, was discussed at length. It was reported
by Mr. Bundy that this program was developed more or less at the
direction of higher authority. It was not the intention of higher authority
to approve and authorize specific actions; what he was seeking was de-
tailed information concerning our capability and what might be expected
on a series of operations which were within our capability. I took the
position, which was supported by Alexis Johnson (somewhat less vocally,
however) that I questioned the advisability of proceeding with the program
until we had crystallized the total policy designed to remove the Soviets
from Guba and also remove Castro. I said I was not clear as to how this
was to be accomplished, nor did I feel that there was any agreed series
of actions designed to meet this end objective. Therefore, it appeared
to me that we are projecting a few of the annoying operations, none of
74-0000

| | a
| C

which would permanently impair the facilities under attack nor would N
they seriously impair Castro's economic or military posture and, hence,
serve no useful purpose. Furthermore, I estimated that under the laws \
of averages, a number of the teams would be rolled up and they would

as they had in the past attribute the whole thing to the U.S. Government

and the CIA. Since we had stood down the ALPHA 66 and others, more or
less disenfranchised ourselves from the Cuban colony in Miami as a result

of the Miro Cardona incident, we would have no plausible denial and in fact
would find ourselves in a rather difficult position. It was agreed this matter
should be further studied and reported on next Thursday, and possibly
discussed with higher authority on Friday. An important part of this

issue is the SNIE now under preparation which has to do with the future

of Castro.

\

ACTION: I should discuss this subject with
General Carter and some of the
Senior Staff on Friday morning to
prepare an agreed CIA position
and also to schedule the completion
of the SNIE.

4. North Vietnam monthly report was accepted.

5. [The funds for Kong Le were approved. However, Alexis
Johnson was asked to go back to Ambassador Unger with an insistent
message that Phoumi support Kong Le with money now in which came
from the United States. However, if this appeal failed, the support
recommended in the paper should be given for a limited period of time-]

6. [The coveZPannex to the Bolivian internal defense plan was
remanded because the Special Group (CI) had remanded the basic internal
defense plan. However, there was no objection expressed to the annex
but it must not be construed that the Special Group approved any subjects
covered in the annex.)

98 ;
7. [ire Colombian internal defense plan was not considered, /

8. (Gotonel Steakley oul citted a report on inadvertent over-~-
flights by reconnaissance since 1 January 1961. This report was noted.
DCI raised the question as to why he’had not been informed. Apparently
this was an oversight as written procedures had been established by
Colonel Steakley for prompt informing of all members of Special Group
when instances of this type occurred. Apparently, Alexis Johnson was]

-2-

Pot
74-0000

4, The two papers from tne Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
on sabotage operations and additional covert programs were
returned for consideration by the Cuban Affairs Committee. It
was noted that the Cottrell Committee had not acted on these papers,
The procedure adopted was for Cottrell Committee action and
recommendations in much the same way that we now get Ambassador
endorsement of covert activities elsewhere. There was a general
concensus that actions against Cuba shipping would not be final
although it would be an irritant, since plan called for damaging and
making ships inoperative rather than destroying them, Several
details of the additional Covert Action Program were discussed,
The paper is to be revised and reviewed by the Cottrell Group.

5. [Go1. Steakley Parte on the results of several recent
Elint missions, and Elint destroyer operations in the Far East and
Elint operation into the Baltic, Dr. Scoville reported on the
Chasse operation. ]

7 .
6. (Question was raid as to the results from overflights over
Laos.

Action: I would like a thorough briefing on this as I have
heard nothing on this,7

7, jit was reported that SAC seriously questioned CIA's con-
clusion that the SA-3 sites in Russia are low-level intercept
ground-to-air missile sites. Apparently SAC has prepared a report
on this, Gilpatric noted the March 18th CIA memorandum reaffirming
our conclusions,

Action: DD/I must pursue this matter and explore with
SAC their reasons for questioning our conclusions, This

is the second time in weeks that these conclusions have been
questioned, Advise mes]

JAM/ji
 

 

. . ofc

104-10306-(0003 . . np

26 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Notes on Special Group Meeting, 26 March 1963

1. (Low-level reconnaissance of Cuba. Comparative result of high-
level versus low-level photography were demonstrated by Mr. Lundahl,
After considerable discussion, it was decided that the matter would be
held in abeyance for a week pending further developments on the Donovan
matter. In general, Gilpatric's attitude was against low-level on the basis
of Defense intelligence needs, but would agree if State felt periodic low-
levels would establish "right of access". Johnson expressed general .
objection at this time. McCone expressed two prevailing viewpoints within
CIA, but recommended proceeding with low-level, Bundy agreed to put a
the matter to higher authority for final decision. McCone suggested he
was willing to accept responsibility for further delay.

Action: Matter to be reconsidered each week. 7]
g
ae [Reconnaissance of Indonesia. State, Defense, and Bundy all
opposed overflying Indonesia. McCone recommended we support the
British effort and it was agreed that the matter would be put to higher
authority for decision. "7
GE

3. (Monthly Report of NRO was reviewed. McCone reported in detail
on the failure of recent CORONA shots; specifically referred to failures
of January, February, and March, and the fact that November and
December were not usually productive of good photography. He advised
Special Group that new estimates of Soviet capability could not be made
until the Fall, rather than in June and July as is customary. He advised
that the next flight was scheduled for Saturday, 30th of March, and it
will be a standard CORONA, Gilpatric reported that adequate emergency
back-up arrangements were being made, and delays of a type occurring
in the last 90 days would not be recurring.

McCone reported the difficulties incurred with the U-2 generators
and brushes and the fact that this had caused a standdown of flights in the
Far East, but not in Cuba. Condition was reported as having been cor-
rected and the North Korean, North China flight is on a weather alert.7
74-00000

26 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) meeting, 25 April 1963

Attended by Bundy, Johnson, Gilpatric, McCone

1 CIA weekly report on our activities was reviewed without
comment. No requests were made. No actions are needed.

2. [Extensive discussione of DCI's recommendations for low-
level reconnaissance of Cuba. Gilpatric raised the question of political
consequences. Johnson responded that Mr. Hughes had submitted a
paper to him Indicating the Soviets would take a harder line under these
provecations. He reported that Thompson appeared to feel that low-
levels would be used as a basia to halt withdrawal and possibly intensify
the situation in Laos and elsewhere and that our interests would be
adversely affected. I took the position that intelligence requirements
were such that low-levels must be ¢ontinued. It was agreed to go to
higher authority with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense
present. Arrangements were made for a meeting about 6:30, 25 April]

3. Mr. FitzGerald presented the proposed new covert policy
toward Cuba, reviewing the situation and specific operations in con-
siderable detail. The Group were impressed with the planning. They
were not prepared to act, and suggested the matter be discussed with
higher authority, and also that action be withheld until the Standing
Group had further deliberated on the question.

9S
4. (covert action in the Congo was discussed. Bronson Tweedy
reported briefly. The CIA proposal was approved. ]

5. [The proposed (ag operations ef GROSBEAK were discussed
in some detail. Colonel Steakley suggested this operation might prejudice
their ELINT operations. However, it was agreed that the exercise would
be undertaken during the May dark-of-the-moon period and the reeults
reported back to the Special Group prior to reaching a decision for reaching
approval of continuing operations. Jorgenson was instructed accordingly.

ACTION: CIA is authorized to undertake this operation;
it should be watched carefully, reported accurately and
fully, and brought before the Special Group at the time
we're considering the © June operations. 7

we
74-00000

78
6. {The atatus report on the Italian elections waa briefly
discussed. Approval was expressed on the manner in which this
had been handled. Apparently, the political observers on Mr.
Bundy's staff views coincided with those reported by the Rome

Station. °
tatton:] G€

7. (McCone reported on the proposed plan for the April 30-
May 1 meeting on British Guiana. Mr. Bundy and Mr. Johnson
expressed the view that it was important that the strike be continued.

They were concerned that it might y 30 and
CIA was instructed to look into this take such
action as might be indicated as desirable to ensure the continuation

of the strike. Mr. Bundy expressed the view that the $10,000 a day
figure in the CIA paper would be cheap if a continuation of the strike

 

for a protracted period woul

 

 

 

 

ACTION; McCone should discuss with Helms and,

if desirable, to arrange for a discussion with Fulton
by Cline or by McCone in Paris over this coming
weekend. ]

JAM/bd (tape)
