74-0000

 

. La
wt ; . >
& . ‘ Br Se
we E-8-8-8
i
| a@ fpsnichezade 32-celiter Lleze pietol, nucter 266723. Ke tolé
'

the saxe etory ae Teloyra ¢ié in thie respect, too.
Koch hac paid for the sheet he end Teloyra tcokx froc the
forzerte roon at the Nleue Furki Hotel to uee es a banner. .

Zoch ennounced that he is leaving todey fer hore in the

AV iin es yao et

USA via Ewecen Ly eir.

 

 

 

digeeeekooh's,etory Keestranslates forhin.inte ‘Mel ish,anéshe;Ce~ Gis

{ elered thet he would eign it.

       
   

SPARE AROS SP

    

 

| Translator?

: ¥itness:

 

Interrogator’

re

 

Lam yee ane tt ngs mee en eam te

oo ae alls.

t
i
i
|

- ae setae sar

  
  
 

  

oo cate “euns Netame OlE
EB heater IRE EN ot I eH a eer Sas ee
74-0000

. - TaT=1=7

  
  
      
    
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 

“fas!

      

A casatent safe, United States eubsect end citizen of
&Pebs

arr
Guba, ceclered that @he wes torn on 29 voy 1¢40 in Hevarnne ae

the lezal chile ef Unites Stetee eutject Herzen Kech,werking there,

(Alay

seat) Fised

    
     
     
  
  

nd bie Cubsn wife. Wow Cohn Kech lives at 1027 South Veet 12th

Avenue, “tani, Floride, “Ze had lived in Hevenne (where ke wae

tudjinge to be ean electrical engineer) from the tice of hie birth
mntil Bid gun CO, O@chern he ene his parente vere forcec to leave
pote ant Apathe LPs fonipolstica). resseneys: gE
In the USA Foch telenged to the ease Cuten etudent oretsie
pa yIouNeNaeEKPIguS Beleyra dias” they had et °

“jativersity in Cuba. “after going to Aznerica, Noch hed ne® chance

8

  
 

aa

 

te continue hie etudiee, Re got e@ job as 4a ealeenen for & eteel

oonpany .

toch ssthbojemdeed participated in the Cuben etudent organiza-

. zetion's activity with the same intent Selorra had. Eech began

& ‘ito meke preparatione for the trip to Finland fer the Coznunist

countries! Feetival, He had eaved ebout £500.00 end hed gotten .

“about £700.00 frot his perente and friends grand thue was able to

‘purchace the necersary tickets. This coney eus sficesd a, end Koch

| still hae £150.00 in hie poseeseion.

<4 heres ee Kech left Rew York on 25 Jul 62, couing to Finland vie
Kactrup and Stockkols by alr en 27 Jul 62 (eic). He had met ble
friend Eeloyra in Stockhols, amiasaeh here vith hin. ech tock a

 

“ POOR at the Klaus Eurki Rotel and froz there, due to a rooz ehortere,
had to rove on 31 dul 62 to the Hotel Ferho. Foch told the case

ae . # story. that Eeloyra_ aia concerning the rest of the retter,

- ae “zoek, Vee ériving the Volkcvégen which he hed berreved.
74-0000

.
meme tenn ete

goed eiaed.

2
a
t
chy
t
aN
i
~
+ eenetine! apeneretm

ceuee he carinot reed the text hinself, he refueed to eign the

Finnish-lersuage copy. no, j
{

1 Sreneletor end witness present. : - ah
terropeter. “-

     

 

j
. oan
i '
| i 5
: ;
* ; :

 
74-0000

Oa | hehe

4

| , A , oF page nine of ‘Belosrate passport is a Finnieh viea, nucter
| s/t, which hie student organizéetion got for hin in the office i
{ of the Consul General of Finland in hew York on the sane day the
| visa was stamped, 20 Jul €2, It was granted froa 24 Jul to

7 Aug 62.

 

' Feloyra left New York for Finland on an SAS plane on 24 Jul 62
‘ond arrived firet at” xayGrup, Denzark, as stamped on page eight of ~~ ' .
ain. Aes
hie paceporte AX On: 2 Denmark, he flew.t6: arleifazeSweden, oni25dul4
62, also stanped on page eight of hie passport. He cod ty air to

otis tne 62STOP UREN PY Poon at the Hote

he etill stays.

   

faup where

 

oS Eeloyra met John Koch, a Cutan student whom he knew end vho
, was on 4@ sinilar trip, in Stockholm and they cane to Finland to- Fi
_ cether. Koch firet got a room at the Klaus Kur%i Hotel but on *
31. Jul 62 he had to move to the Hotel Perho (a cumzer hotel in the

Restaurant Fersonnel School) because@® of a room shortage,

    
 
   
   
  
  

‘Their original intengt: was to vieit the cuban Feetivel dele-
getionts quartera and inscribe the valle with “the lettere D.R.E.
But after they learned that the Finnish youth had anti-Fectival
opinione, -they decided to bring out openly their anti~Cectro po
etre ge sition to the Cuban delegation. With this in mind, Eeloyra and © ~
: Koch bought eome black paint from 4 Heleink! paint ehop on £ature
dey end mein the afternoon of Sunday, 29 Jul €2,. they took # eheet

 

. fron Koch's bed at the Klaus Kurki Hotel and they painted on it
the Spanish, French, and Inglish text appearing in the opening pert -
of this report, Foch had borrowed Ra Volkewegen, and they drove :

pees teen ge nets ane cane cone uncabeneny aatmmem tn eoetmeeitts ane ter nm ane

  
     
    

 

‘et 1800 hours that sere “evening to eee the Procereion. ae it noved .
 

ete.

 

sa eceseewiinrea ee

 

“lp ta Sar

!
|

Pat ee

  

5-5-5-5 |
intersection and waited for the Cuten delegatica. &s it tegan to ; |
poes thes, theyme raieed the tenner they had nade at the Klaus .

Kurki for the Cubans in the procecsicn to see. 4 policezen cance i
to the scene, however, and urged- then to get down froa the top . |
of the car where they had teen displeying their tanner, ené he i
teok thet te the police tation where ‘their pacererte vere intrete

.ted., Ed their te baken BY ET eh! vhs hort: 1

 
  
  

te. egation was ce
th RRS eich

   

   

 

eft to their “conduct.

cas enotnteesnayrvantonnevetcauinen onan Aes

éclecation's quarters and took soze pictures; ceverel tines they

 

Kagen, ané at 1930 hours ‘were driving along Alexsanderinkatu to-

whoa Pan
‘eddressed Cutan delegater/they met. in own. In the afternoon of % f
l Aug 62, they left Koch's quarters for a drive in the eare Wolke} i

_ wit) a Spanish-made 32-caliber Star pistol, nuster 612843. He

aa at hoze (sic). , . mS OE, tb

 

   

warde Unioninkctu. At the intereection of these two etreete, aa’
they had 6 collieion with a police ear coming fren the left end
the car they were driving eustainec sone body dazage. ~ .

 

Se

Following the accident teloyra @end Koch were held et the
. to

* Crininel Folice Department for reasons unknornythea,.

Eefoyra had in hie porcession (without @ Weapon-beering Fer=

 

‘eeid that-he had gotten it, as had the other Cubsn refugees, fro=

the Cutan refugee organizations in the USA. TEecauee such @ pere

   
  
  
  
  
  

nit in the USA is not required to te on one's perecny Eelosra_
aid not have one with hin in Finland, Although he coee heve it

 

™ Beloyra declared that de fe leaving Finlend today for howe
in the USA vie svegen by plene.

 

we stelacne te nS ame wer bmemntnt gs Few bie Babe, “anDiet, “ghee
_ ae

    

eens ant Te pe ha oh erm :
of go Res te ~ . *
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
       
    
     
     
     
    

~ SECRer.

 
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  

 

Country s FINLAND

baer ANTI-FESTIVAL ACTIVITY EY TKO CUEAK REFUGEES © :
* Bates .: 10 August 19°2. . 4

te, 4t..1800 houre on Eundey, 29 duly 1962, a proceesion corpored

of various nationalities ettending the world Youth and Student verI
* Peace end Friencehip Festival wae enroute to the Cly=pie Stediua ;
- along vannerheinintie. Ag it paceed the - vannerhe izintie-Pohjoie~ a
Reutatiekatu intersection, etudente Enrique Antonio Felix Beloyta :
and John Koch, Cutan refugees living in the USA, vere “standing on

. the top ofa Wolkewagen. They. ehouted sonething at the procese ion - a
“and opened up a white benner (about 74 by 44 feet) on ‘which the |
‘following text wae written in Spanish, ‘French and Paglieht, :
wo, DeREs So wo
_ MIBERT AD 15,000 Jovenes presoe CUBA ne

. LIBEREZ 45,000 jeunes Prieonniers CUBA .
Free the 15,000 youth in Jail in CUBA

   

- Because it was suepected that the conduct of Eeloyra and ‘Koch

: might lead to an incident involving then and the Festival procession; . '

 
 

.. they were taken by police to the Helsink’. crininal Police Teparte
: Aw

. ment where their banner was confiecated. oo Ins pec=

~ tor of the Criminal Police Departments made a, prelininery inter- —

  

rogation at which Eeloyra and Koch said. they they had come to Fine
‘Vand on 26 Jul 62 {ele) with the intention ‘of raking contact with

  

the Cuban youth at the Festival and to ask them at tout. current ton-
“@itions in Cuba, With this in mind, they paintea the above text - ‘
‘on a white ‘sheet with ‘black paint at their, (ete) quarters im the :
: -Klaue Kurki Hotel, : meaning at to be seen by the: Cutan Festigel

 
   

é rtieipents whea displayed. ; A.
 

‘toa t0218-10006

 

wis

     

 

“DISPATCH

Chief of Station, WAVE’

“Chief, ti Cidef, ROLLF
wat! ef, KE

“Chief of Etation, l|

SuacT

GAPE AVL IK/Operations Tnterrogetion of Cuban Refucees

ATP PERIRED REFERENCES
pers[_}eoo, 5 hurust use

le DL Attactaent A, forvarded herevith, fa a TAKA trancletion of the VALIOR
interroretion of Turlous Antonioc Felix EXLCYRA and John KOCH, The report was received
from VALDE/4, who acturlly 444 the questioning, Copies of exbjects' fassports, also
received from VILDT/4, ere forvarded os Attactment B herewith, —

2, When banding! [these ocmente, VALIET/4 neid that cone of the
inforgation im the interroration report ves purposely distorted, frobebly to protect °
the lenfent action of the VALIEKs in mnttera concerning the Featival and counter-
ectivity. Tbe omy extant copies of this report are in the VALILE files.

  

   
 
    
  

    
 
      
       
      
     
    
  

SQOeNn aan

  

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

Attachments? fo . moe 1 oo
& Interrogation report eos .
b. Paesport copies - Le

Distribution: . i
G&1—UAVE, watts, KYO single copy cosh :
- Boe, v/ett. 6 single cory

Be ve, v/att.a (including orig. Pisoleb-leocuage versie sae ory .

2 th, & @ 0
2 fitea

 

    

 
  

          
 
   
   
    

— .
AUG 3° 1932
pec. MICRO."
74-00000

to 6 te oe

‘Eeloyra and Koch.
oo _ The interrogation tock ‘place on 2 Aug €2, with

: 88 treneletor and

a: 68 witneos, and vas recorded as follows: . ’
‘ Ncoe: Student Enrique Antonio hay Eeloyra, citizen GFlouke and

   
     
 
 
   
   
    
  
 

 

Pemeen te mde

now @ refucce in the vse deciarse @clared that-he vee bo bors on ki ug 42

 

  

THER

: a TEA 2
F Per ae cite not wich to aileclose where

glond 6, arneenis. byes

wniversity student, and in cuba. wes e atudying ¢ to be an electrical a

 

 

engineer. His fether was arrested in 1960 for political reasons

    
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

but had told hie son before arrest to get a passport and get out
of the country at the first opportunity. Exrique Leloyra applied
for and received a paseport throuch the intetey of Internal Avo
faire. He now bes a Cuban passport, number 24192 166.1960. He
, hed made contact with the English Exbasay in Havanna and had made
fhe acquaintance ef an official in it. When he left Havanna oa
10 Sep 62_0on a Pan-Anerican Airvays plane, the first etacp was put
into bis passport on page eix, The English E-basay official whom
Feloyra knew vas also on the plane to help Feloyra ‘if any diffie
, _ “gulty arose in departure. The reason Beloyra did not leave eare
4s “lier was that an invasion was expected at any nonent. At @eMiazi
he turned himself over to the American authorities and applied for

 

"g reeidence perzit. There is @ residence perait starped on parce

.- geven of his paceport and it le,dated 9 Oct 61. Peloyra could not
7 1 —_—" .

 

_- continue his studies in the USA due to financiel difficultice. Fe

 

took @ job ass kind of gulds er functionary in the service of the

  

ots - Cuban refugee errenizatioy there, Eis function vee ta receive anc,.
74-0000

Baek

i.

{ -sae.. larly. the. cubeiene ey TT ‘known tS Ree

 

i
i

RRM gberictd og ek nag ttn Serene ome Be Pt ements ones

 

bre qne ecn of thie ~uFliestion fn hie hotel rees.

ae9e2e9

Gistribute afd ehipzente ata echool where there were nany sinkhe :

“ehildren of Cuban refuses. ; in the USA he belonged to a club of

Cutan refucee atudente. About two weexe before his arrival in

    
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
   

Finland he vas in this club. They had heard thet the Cocmunist
countries were preparing the Festival in Finland end they teren
to diecuss That anti-Castro enlightensent activity ought to to

undertaken esong the verious Feetival youth oe eet cee

 

youth and students are in Cuban prisons )
ee eople of Cute re ot aware ¢ of these. things. There were fi+
neneial difficulties in getting started, but after it was arranged
for Beloyra to pay 50% now and 50% later in inetalisents (custozary
there) the matter wes settled, Zeloyra had had {£00.00 in the tank
and he used this as the down payment, the total coset being atout
§1200.00. Bis last Paychecks gave bin £400.00 for fpending, en@ he
nov has (242, 00 left.

For his enlightenzent work, Feloyra bemgbrought coze booklets
with hia fros an organization naned rirectoria Revolucinario Detue
dientil (DRE) (Cuben Students! Revolutionary Leadership). They
were printed in Chile in English, French, and Spanish, and tell

 

atout conditions in Cuba and the etudente! figtt aceinet dictetor-
ship beginning in the tiaptiste (sic) era. Earlier they were dis~
tributed in the countries of Lorth and South Averica, According

“to Tégloyra, the books he had here were in Eoglich and French, and
were életrituted pricarily to West Euroeean newezen, although his
original intent had been to distrubte then te all non-Coaminiet

Festival perticipante, If Feloyra stresenbers correctly, he still
