could give them. I pointed out that we were constantly being approached

 

3. Messrs. Murphy and Morison went on to state that they
understood that representatives of the ten corporations which have the
largest interests in Cuba are planning to mobilize Congressional preasure
on the Department of State to do something about it. They stated that
these corporations felt there was little use in going to the Department. of
State or to Secretary Rubottom because they would get the classic answer
that the United States does not interfere in the internal affairs.ofa
sovereign power. They also said that they felt there shauld be one fecal
point in the Government for people like Porlouonde and these corporations
to deal with~-not in the Department of States

4, I thanked these gentlamen for theix information and told,
them I would place it in the hands of experts and see what guidance we...

  
 
  

by Cubahs’and repeatedly gave “thenr the advice’ tha .
affair'and that they were the ones wha should dd‘womething: ” y Batak go
out to them that Portouondo's proposal sounded: ‘donmiewhat’ halve inasmuch
as Castro appeared to have the support: ‘ofthe Bulk of the people. ian
rah threat of exte

  
 
 

advice I shoald give: to these. geatlemen, « ‘er w
pabdivectly fa touch swith. them 7. a

     

1G/LBK/drm

 

Distribution: - ie
Original - Addressee . te
1\-1G chrono /
1 - IG subject

«

 

 

 
104-10534-10212

 

~

 

Approved for Rejease by CIA
Date Al

5 Nevember 1959 “

  

Declass 7°"
by the Ceti intelligence Agency
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division . . - Date: 2-003,

SUBJECT . + «Activities of Nunez Partouondo.
. and Rudolf Fernandez: :

.

On. 4. November Mr. I. Patrick Coyne, Staft Director of

the Paesidentta Board: of Cansultants on. Foreign Intelligence Activities,

brought to ace me Mr..Charles. Murphy, formerly personal assistant, to
President Truman, ; and Mx.-H. Graham-Morfson,. formerly with the:

Department: of. Justice, who ‘are now partners inthe flim of Morison, .

Murphy, Glapp. & Abrams. ‘Caoyne-left these gentlemen with me: and: a they
proceeded fo tell me of.discussions they havesbeen having with.
Dx. Nunez: Portouonde and Rudolf. Fernandes} -Theae Gubans were:

apparently put in.touch with Morison through» mutual friend, Mr. Gittesple,

President of Dixie Industries Corporation in Atlanta, Georgia.
Fernandax js reported to he a resident of Tampa, - Florida, and Atlanta,

“where he knows Gilleapic. . [Appaxently Los has. been» fairly active | Fee lu

source of fhe FBLin Atlanta, and states that ne nas given them many

_ reports on activities in Cuba by the anti-Castro underground, These

inclade a report which the FBI has disseminated, according to Murphy, |
that a colonel inthe MVD (as reported) was atill active in Cuba. - -

  

2. The proposition that the Cuband. have put. te: these. Washington
lawyers is to the effect that they would like aasurance that the United
States Government-will not intervene should they aucceed in mounting a
‘military expedition in Gaostemala to proceed-te Cuba to attempt to ever ~
throw the Castro regime. Apparently Portouondo-bhas stressed the-fact
that ‘they’ ‘Will not abuse the hospitality of the United Statea, and will stage

‘all of their operations outside of this country. He alleges that he has the

“support of several other Latin American countries, and that there are a -

considerable number of Cuban exiles who will respond to his initiative.

‘Among those mentioned were fnu Martinez in Florida and Gen. Tabernilla
‘in the Dominican Republic. According to Portouonda, if something is

not done soon about the situation in Cuba, the government will be com-
pletely under Communist control within a few months. He alleges that
there are 200 Russians and 300 Chinese actively at work organizing the
Communists in Cuba. The questio fo me by Messra. Murphy and
Morison was what should they'd £ iything, with Portouondo; should

they agree to represent him and, it so, should they register as represent-
ing foreign intereats and requ f.auch registration be kept confidential?

   
 
 

akan ausdutowllon

 
