re oo

 

(2) 4S) Issues:

(a) The Agency did not provide any of the previous
investigations (Warren-Church) the depth of access to its files
as we now are to the HSCA. Nor do we provide the same degree of
access to either the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence or
the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (i.e. DDO
201 files and other sources and methods material). We must be
prepared to comment upon our relationship with this Committee.

 

(b) The Agency released to the public through the Warren
; Commission Report a cropped version of the Mexico City |
“unidentified man' * photograph. As this photograph was from
a photographic surveillance operation and as several other
photographs from the same operation have been cropped and
supplied to the Committee, are we prepared to release all
of these other photographs to the public if requested? ,

5. (S) The immediate future of the Committee « as it involves the a.
Agencyis: | . ~® oa

Deryabin interview - 27 April

a

 

Golitsyn interview  -4 May Deposition ~ 19 May
Nosenko interview -~ Il May Executive Session Hearing - 31 May
, - 25, 26 May
. ~ 30 May -
Bruce Solie interview - 9 May~ Deposition - 22 May ;

June and July will see a flourish of executive session hearings in preparation
for August recess. September will see approximately 20 days of public
hearings on King and 20 days on Kennedy.

6. (S) Although the King Subcommittee has not been active with our
files, one memorandum of conversation with Office of Security, May 1965,
indicated "King might possibly be assassinated", and Security presumes that
this information was passed to FBI through normal liaison channels. HSCA
has not yet reviewed this file although it is available to them. There
do not appear to be any other preassassination items in the King file.

7. (S) At the conclusion of the HSCA's investigation, we may be left
with material gathered in response to HSCA requests which has not been
completely reviewed by HSCA staff investigators. . They are far behind at the
moment. The Committee has requested access to files on over 368 individuals.
DDO has 245 files ready for review of which 105 have been reviewed. Security
has 146 files and two polygraphs ready for review of which 50 files have been

 
   

 

 

reviewed. Their options may be: to rapidly scan all remaining material .
so they can reflect in their final report that they had seen it all; to not finish
their review and remand the material to 30 years storage under our Memorandum

_of Understanding; to pass the material to the custody of the House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence for use in developing any needed future
legislation, i.e. an intelligence charter. Regardless, I believe we must :
prepare all materials for 30 years retention and should be prepared to see

the material remanded to a safe storage out of our custody. If the material |
remains. unreviewed by HSCA staff at the conclusion of their investigation, i
then the future skeptics may still have a cause celebre. In the final analysis, }
it works to both the CIA nad HSCA image to complete the job and I have attempted

on repeated ¢ occasions to call this to Ge Robert Blakey" 8 attention. a

Rodger S@Gabrielson = = oe

Distribution:

1~ OLC Subject “*
1+ OLC Chron — . :
OLC:RSG:jms (26 Apr 78) . Pa
a
on
6
 

   

4. (S) Following are what now appear to be the possible topics for
public hearings which involve the Agency ; and issues which may arise
with HSCA.

CUBAN CONNECTION TASK FORCE

This grouphas reviewed post Bay of Pigs material including the .
Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook, 1964, which details personalities
and operations of Miami-based groups. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel .
and Staff Director, has been to Havana. .

® 6) Possible Topics for Public Hearings
(a) Results of the Havana visit which may include a Castro

sponsored interview with AM/LASH. This may require a CLA
spokesman to define the CIA - AM/LASH connection.

-(b) Operations of anti-~Castro Cubans, Miami~based, for
which CIA documents (Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook
-.1964) may be necessary .

(e) Former DCI Colby discussions. with Claire Booth Luce
regarding the Bayo-Pawley affair. :

(d) The scope and nature of CIA files regarding Marita Lorenz
Castro-Sturgis- This may require CIA spokesman. ~ .

(2) (S) Issues:
No major issues at tHie“moment: ;

OSWALD TASK FORCE ance |

 

 
   

This group has@weviewed most of the Oswald) Tile as as well as many other "201s
referenced therein. ‘Though the Epstein book may drive the majority of the publi
hearings toward the Nosenko issue, the group is exploring other issues which ma,
be aired. . .

a (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald and his own credibility. :
Nosenko can be expected to be called, possibly Golitsyn,.too. Not
Deryabin (too dated). This may require a CIA spokesman to
attest to the present CIA position on credibility. Others may be
called: Helms, Colby, Angleton, Bagley, Miler, Hart, stein

, and possibly. ‘Len McCoy and Bruce Solie.
104-10065-10178}-

  

OLC 78-1544
26 April 1978

oe

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations ~ A Projection

1. (S) With less than eight months remaining until its final report to
Congress is due, the HSCA investigations have narrowed to a few key areas
which involve the Agency. Though the Committee mandate covers both
the King and Kennedy Assassinations, the majority of our contact has been
with the Kennedy investigators. ot : -.

 

2. (S) The Kennedy Subcommittee is addressing four questions:
. . A. Who shot the President?
. oo >

B. Was it a lone assassin or a conspiracy?

.
é

C. How did the agencies perform:
(1) prior to the assassination;
; (2) sprotecting the President;
7 (3) during the subsequent investigations 2
D. Is any new legislation necessary?

3. (S) Initially, the Kennedy Subcommittee had organized into four
functional groups: ; : ;

A. Cuban-Connection Task Force led by Bill Triplett
B. Oswald Task Force led by Ken Klein ;
C. Organized Crime Task Force led by John Hornbeck

D. CIA Involvement in the Assassination and Performance During
Subsequent Inquiries Task Force led by Mickey Goldsmith.

Most recent contact between OLC and HSCA staff has involved the Oswald and
CIA Involvement-Performance Task Forces. All groups have had access to
CIA files, principally from Personnel, Security and DDO.

 
 

eaaaTs
oiviie _

(b) Rameriz Ortiz's knowledge of Oswald's file in Cuban ~
DGI. Ramériz Ortiz, preséntly in Leavenworth Prison, wrote
of a file on Oswald in Cuba. LA Division has reviewed the
Rameriz Ortiz book and provided follow-up items to the Committee.
As this is new material, it is likely to be aired and may require
a CiA spokesman. Rameriz Ortiz has given executive session
testimony already. :

 

(ce) Pri McMillan may be called to discuss
her contacts with Oswald in Moscow at which time her CIA “witting
source" affiliation may be exposed. She gave executive session
testimony last week, and staff indicated that they had follow-up
issues as a result but would not share their issues. If the CIA
relationship is presented, Gary Coit (retired, Pep) may be
subpoenaed.

c James Wilcott, former CIA finance officer i

uth i ibaa ab A lehsbies alte eb Hae tose sp tine 2

 

testified in executive session that Oswald had a
th the CLA, The press picked it up, and the HSCA.
9 pursue the issue. HSCA staff have interviewed
fficers and are about to interview former
Agency’employees tioned at the Atsugi U72 base. Oswald
served at Atsugi in 1958, although at an entirely separate
: location from our activity. Though Wilcott may be recalled for |
r public hearings, the course of the staff interest is not firm
ne enough to predict. At the maximum we may be called to define
our activities at Atsugi, 1957-60. A CIA spokesman may be.
required. ,

  
    

relationshi

 

   

  

(e) Serendipity may get Garbler/ Kovich before the Committee. © =
Garbler/Kovich may be called to exemplify the fallout from a
the Nosenko/Golitsyn issue. The most recent tip-off of this
possibility is that the Committee has asked to interview former
COS and DCOS of Moscow during the Garbler era. The Committee
may provide the forum that both may revel inand, since the HSCA |
is chartered to recommend legislation as a result of its efforts, Lt
it may be a possible source of private-bills for them. Messrs. cal
Colby and Bush may also be called. .

(2) (S) Issues:

(a) HSCA has requested Nosenko's 1964, 1957 polygraph
charts. After reviewing these, they may/may not request to polygraph
Nosenko himself. What is our position? :

(b) If documentary material is requested for Nosenko
hearings, should it be provided? (Transcripts of OS interviews, etc )

-2ipt

3
: : . . Lai

16 Aten eet samamcettont=

fc) Should Nosenko's executive session hearing, scheduled ~
for 31 May, be video taped such that the tape could become the
basis for any future public hearing?

(d) If Nosenko requests counsel, who provides/pays?

 

(e) Should the Hart report be made available, as it appears
the HSCA is backing into its substance anyway?

ORGANIZED CRIME TASK FORCE

After an initial surge of interest by the HSCA staff in CIA files last year
of Johnny Rosselli, William Maheu, et:al, no investigators have followed-up.
The scope and nature of any future hearings are difficult to predict. No issues
are pending - . -.

 

CIA INVOLVEMENT/PERFORMANCE TASK FORCE

 

Officially, this group is an adjunct service elerrient to the other groups.
Its activities hop from issue to issye,but some areas appear of specific
interest to them. -- -

Q (S) Possible Topics for Public Hearings

(a) Performance of Mexico City Station in reporting on.
a Oswald. Anne Goodparture' s testimony in executive session may
~ be reviewed i in public session. She may be called to comment
. : upon the personalities of Win Scott and Station personnel. David
e . \_ Phillips appeared in executive session, too. 103
oe Iwill be deposed in Jjieu of a hearing. “any public hearing
: , on Mexico City will ultimately hit upon sources and methods (Soviet/
Cuban Embassy tele-taps and photographic surveillance). One of the
issues being investigated is the Agency's management of those
operations. A CIA senior spokesman may be needed to testify to
protect sources and methods. .

 

 

 

 (b) David Christ was questioned about his activities on
22 November 1963. He resembled the “unidentified man" of Dallas.
Our records on his exact activities are vague. As this is a "flashy"
issue, the Committee may press for a public hearing. This would .
jeopardize Christ and the others and would be tantamount to
having the U.S. Government admit publicly to an old CIA operation on
Cuban soil at a time when the Administration may be courting Cuba.

(c) E. Howard Hunt may be called to discuss a report of the
assassination which he purportedly wrote while at the Plumbers Unit.
. HSCA has requested access to our files on Hunt/ Watergate - We have
no known records of any such report.

‘pl
