74-00000

    

- SECRET
: ; Page 4 of Attach. a

a little sooner than he intelted, in fact alwost as soon
&6 possible.

12. AMLASH talked about the two possibilities
of re-taking Cuba -~ etthor thru fovaaion by US troops, or
his way. He also realized, however, that invasion was :
hot to be considered seriously at this tine. Also, AMLASH -

be expected to receive USG aid. It is hoped that he ¥
does realize that Jlavana must first be taken... or failing %.
that, a truely sigablo piece ef Jand (say, almost an

entire province) which could be @ crue rallying point and
staging ground under couplece Rebel control, from which

the rest of the island could be wrested from the Pidelistas
and the Communists,

”

13. In summary, the talks with A/l led the
underaigned to believe that AMLASH! is again entering
one of his skeptical woods, one which onr actions have
done little to dispel. foo little and too late.......

End of Report

ff
i
|
FT
{
|
| thie was not the kind of a plan which could even remotely
{
i
i
|

 

 

 

   

eee ermine ren SAK panes Siete ee ee

1g te
74-00000

ho. few, ait SECRET
: Lb

ATTACHMENT A T6:" AMMIP MEMO OF MEETING OF 14 NOV 1963

i
i
' Fhe following tnformation and cbservations wore obtained
| from A/l during the above meeting:

1. AMLASH Secretary: Ernestina ACOSTA Gonzalez
! | (aickname: me) calle 25 - $526 Apt 8 (presumably cur 25th
St., No. 526.... Vedado ~ Tclephone 303865. , .

 

: (Note AMLASH has considerable confidance in his secretary,
' ; and has suggested that letters or packages could be gent
there on a one or two-shot deal.)

2. In response to the question of whom AMLASH
might turn to in order to carry out his plans, AMSHIP
mentioned the following persons:

i

i

|
Jose ad ‘EP Yara, ca. 33 yre old, who is functionary | :

 

in'Vavana municipal govt. We is
‘ef moorish desdant.) Was wie
ee ‘eirele of. acquaintances in Havana. -
tajor Aye seInAS °
Ramon GUIN £
wan ALMET! Re
The NIEVES : j
wee jue Pepin] NAKANIO' é }

Of the above, A/l felt that GUIN, ACEF, The NIEVES; NARANIO)
and :. EIRASUrere the most dependable. The degree to
which Juan ALMEIDA could be trusted was questioned by A/Y,
In addition to the above names which A/I volunteered, he
asked about ‘Major DIAZ- 5 zatiosor Tony CaSTEle: and
Major Faure CHOMON. A/1 stated that he felt (DIAZ-ANGUEL)
hon nd his brother “Tin-Tin® could be used and were trustworthy;
ay GASTEL and CHOMON', on the other hand, would not be utilized
ee in the initial efforte by AMLASH, but, if his efforts were

 

  

 

 

 

successful, they could be counted on to support LASH in the
Aet EX period which followed, They would never be taken into the .
ee “infer-sanctun", however, When asked about. Qujors Pedro)
on) \raRer, Rodiles PLANAS, and Garique BARBONET Goxez, A/1
““atated that \PLAN 3) go fen

 

& could never be utilized, 1 RBONET would
rk fit into the EEZCHOMON category, and MERET, though

MgO friendly with TASH, ‘could not be trusted as his primary

| Cap, Vevalty was to FIDEL CASTRO. t,

  

SECRET

OT rn teen ee eee lat ne ae eee eaten emai mati ce cea ee

 

a

g
 

: ft

104-10295-10154

 

en

 

 

“fo gener

- - 20 November 1963

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT : AMVHIP/1 Meeting, New York City
Thursday, 14 November 1963 ;

1, Meeting Time/Place. This meeting wag Laid on-
by phone from Washington on 13 Noveuber. It took place as’ .
scheduled using an office/work-room tn A/l*a jewelry factory-—
showroom at 31 W. 47th St., New York. os .

2. Purposes of Meeting. This meeting was scheduled
in order to obtain information and identifications from A/1
revelant to the ANLASH Operation. We were particularly
interested in determining AMLASH's present attitude toward
the Operation and any details of or numea of likely ;
confederates which he may have discussed with A/l after mo
Ontrich's departure from the scene. We were alao interested
im using Afi as a check against the list of litely AMLASH
confederates which had beea coupiled by the MHAPRON group.

3. Finances. The undersigned was prepared to,
give AMWUIP/1 “sufficient funds to cover hig expenses and ,:
those of AMLASH during the recent three-week sojourn in

    

{

t

i

|

|

j

Europe which A/1l made at our request. lowever, 4/1 refused t

to accept any remuneration whatsoever, stating that the : !

money we had given him for his round-trip ticket’ ($950,00) {

was enough. This, for the record, representa an outlay |
conservatively of some $1200 to $1500 by A/l from his own

pocket on KUBARK behalf, not to mention the lost time from |

his own business. We believe this gesture should be |

remembered in future dealings: with A/1. . |

|

|

|

|

4. General. A/l was feeling poorly as the result
of a flu-type Cold when we met. He stated that he would not
have come in at all were it not for our scheduled meeting.
Nevertheless, he spent willingly several hours with us,
going over the points in which we were interested. The
meeting terminated at 1530 with no incidents of a security

 

nature noted. ,

5. Details of Meeting. Collecting’ tnformation
for the AMLASH operation constituted the principal of
discussions during this meeting, anc may be found as
attachment A to this report. A copy is filed 4iso in the

AMLASH 201.

Power os  enae

 

 

 

SAS7E0D, C70

SECRET

 
14-00000

 

ge

| . . . Pago’ 2 of Attach. A

 

 

i _. 3. Concerning ‘Majors William GALVEZ Rodriguez, |
(Victor BORDON Machado, Crescendio PEREZ (Mentane?)) and :
! (Antonio LUSSON (£U20N9} Batlio, A/1 stated that he did

 

 

 

wot know these types well and therefore had little to sa
regarding them. He did say that he did not cure for GALVEZ )
personally and that he was a little “psycho"; BORDON was
OK; (PEREZ) was an older man, ca, 60 years, who was a
nonentity who had his rank because he had guided the (GRANHA)
group\ into_the hills at the beginning of the fight against.

Batista: {Lussow\ was probably too loyal to Raul CASTRO to be

considered for any initial action. 7
a an) .

 

ce i
4, "hen questioned about the identities of followers SE yg
of Major AGEL AS, A/L stated that it would be better to i f
refer to AMLASH, as he (A/1) could only give information that : ‘
was three yeara old and hence not very accurate, We did not ‘ !
press the question, nor suggest names, as it was evident : P
that he felt that his answers would simply not give a true, F :

current picture.

5. A/l provided the full naue of a possible lead |
which he had dise lier with Ontrich: | .
Taw. \RUIZ\ is an aaetatant to =
<p Rivestox o Sparte*)for the National Govt
wed,

f

6. In addition to the above information, the
undersigned discussed various aspects of the AMLASH case,
and in particular, questioned A/l about AMLASH's frame of
mind and future plans which he may have revealed to A/l .
after Ontrich departed the scens, A/) wade several. points, .
which basically botled down to the fact that ANLASH was
still not pleased with the support he was getting from the
USG side, The visit with DAINOLD, who acted in the eapacity

of a representative of high levels of the Govt concerned

with the Cuban problem, satisfied AMLASH as far as policyy

was concerned , but he was not af all happy with the fact

that he still was not given the technical assistance for

the operational plan as he saw it. A/1l said that AMLASH

. dwelt constantly on this point. He could not understand

| why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which

 

 

    
  
 

 

iw

 

 

 

in Havana.

promised a final solution te the problem, while, on the
ether hand, the USG gave wich equipment and money to exile
groupe for their ineffective excursions against Cuban
coastal targets, According to A/1, AMLASH feols strongly
on this poiut, and if he does not get advice and materials —

 

Tenement ag A erat ease A MOR ENON dnc ty beet oee

 
 

ce center a ane

SECHET

Page 3 of Attach, A

from USG technician, he will probably become fed-up again,
and we will lose whatever progress we have made te date,
A/\ stated that AMLASH now hae his feet wet vis-a-vis
cooperating with USG and has accepted the fact that he will
work profitably and securely with it. It is this that we
stand to lose with our procrastination. AMLASH aleo
talked about going to. the French terrorist group, the OAS,
in order to get the ratertals and guidance he needs. It

is believed. that he was talked out of this idea, after the
dangers involved were discussed with AMLASH,

7. With regard to the radio gear, AMLASK stated
that he did not feel that he wanted to take one in with
him, particularly in view of the recent arrests in Cuba
of agents carrying concealed radios, [le was not opposed,
however, at this time to havdngia radio cached for hin,
to be recovered by him later,

8. According .to AMVHIP, if there is any interest
in having AMLASH Link up with other trusted assets in
Cuba, these names would have to be given to him beYore he
returned; otherwise he would not trust any other means
used later inside te get hin to initiate or reapond to such
contacts. .

re,

f
9. A/1 stated that AMLASH talked about getting
aid from, or at least discussing his position, with
Manolo RAY. However, he stated that he questioned whether
this was the best idea, since if RAY came to Paris while
he (LASH) was there, people would conclude that there was-
something between the two, Another spot would be better,
thought AMLASH,

10. At the time of A/i's departure, AMLASH
said that he would contact "Jack" (Red Stent, Paris
staffer) upon his return to Paris. (This he subsequently
did on the 15th of November, according to info received
‘from Paris-somewhat belatedly). .

” .

11. When AMLASH, A/1, and VENEGAS were together
in Rowe and Italy, VENEGAS told AMLASI that people were

betting that LASH would not return to Cuba. Some had also
questioned his mother on this point. AMLASH reportedly
told VENEGAS to cover all the hets he could as he would
be a rich nan, (It tas at this time, according to A/l,
that AMLASH decided that he had better return to Havana

SEGHET

 

 

 

 
