[ioetortat0zra)

 

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

O

FROM

SUBJECT:

Dip

ce Memorandum

 

File DATE: 10 July 1959
Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

LANZ, Pedro Diaz

1. On 9 July 1959, Mr. Herbert D. Nice of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service telephonically advised that the sub-
ject was under a subpoena to appear before the Senate Internal
Security Committee and in the event it was desired by this
Agency to contact the subject, such contact should be made

thro the Senate Committee. This fact was relayed to Mr.
035 of the WH Division, and he in turn received a
rect confitmation of this fact from Mr. Herbert D. Nice

03

 

telephonically.

2. On this date Mr. Joe Langan of the SSD contacted. the

writer and advised that he had been in turn contacted by Mr.
who raised the question as to the capability

of the Office’ of Security, by surveillance or other means, to
ascertain the address of the subject. Mr. Langan had informed
M23 "]that' although this Office has the capability, in
view of the Congressional interest in this matter, no action
would be taken without an extremely strong justification.

3. Subsequently, the writer was contacted by the Deputy
Chief, Support Branch, on this same point .and Mr. 23
was telephonically contacted by the writer. e stated

 

“that, With regard to his conversation with Mr. Langan, he was

merely interested in ascertaining whether or not the Office

of Security had the capability to surveil the subject and he

did not intend that any further action would be taken in this
regard. He declared that Col. J. C. King, WH Division Chief,
would possibly discuss this matter with the DCI or Col. Edwards
and it was understood by Mf? (___) that the DCI was not happy
with the way General Swing had diverted the subject to the Internal
Security Sub-Committee when,in fact,he was aware of the interest

of the CIA in hin.

kh, At approximately 10:45 a.m., Col. Edwards was briefed
generally with regard to the situation and mention was made to
him of the fact that he might be contacted by the Chief, WH +
Division.

OS/AAS/WIC:es 13 July 59

 
