 

SEP.28, 1998

.

ti

3:31PM A SLeRer SAABLTLVE BUKURM NO.279

wall in fact that: most had given up hepe of ever going
anywhere else or accomplishing anything new.
Compartmentation was a way of life, and management was
remote from the rank and file. Kalaris was appalled to
learn that his chief of support, who had worked in the staff
for four or five years, had never met Angleton; he had eniy
seen him from a distance. The overall atmosphere seemed to

Kalaris to be conditioned by doublethink and mirrors.

Compartmentation in the Angleton staff had been carried
to such extremes, however, as to become counterproductive.
With Angleton not disposed to be forthcoming with his
successor, and Rocca and Miler taking their lead from him
(an@ Hood already having left the staff and the Agency some
months earlier), it was difficult for the Kalaris team to
find out what the staff had been doing. Like the blind men
and the elephant, the parsonnel below the top leadership had
never been exposed to more than their own narrow siice of
staff activities, and accerdingly even with the best of will
they ware limited in what they were able to tel) the new
management. The MORINE' case (see belew) provided a vivid

illustration of this point.

McCoy, with his Seviet Division background, was
particularly struck at the almest total absence of Soviet
expertise in the staff. There was no Russian language
capability and no realistic area knowledge, and what
experiance there was in Soviet matters was dated and
limited. This was the case not only in R&A, but in the

Operations Group as well.

One of the first things Kalaris had to do after
assuming office was find out what was in the 6afes and
vaults in the Angleton premises. This vwitimately took

months, as there were several vaults and many safes

containing among them large quantities of paper. All this

8
SECRET SENBITIVE NOPORN

P.16

 
 

|
|
|
|
I

_SEP. 28. 1998

1

Fi

PP. 327-330

3:32PM A NO. 279
SECRET GENSITIVE NoroRN

Q .

had to be reviewed, and not only for the purpose of

determining what it was all about. Significant sagments’ of ?

this material, it was discovered, were unique to the CI
Staff and had never been integrated into the DO file and
records system. Information from the mail-intercept
program, for example, was indexed inside the CI Staff, but
reflected nowhere outside. Other material largely
duplicated flles maintained by other elements. Some files
contained mostly press clippings. Decisions had to be made
and action taken, item by item, on indexing, transfer of
files, determinations of what needed to be retained and what
could or should be destroyed, etc. As the magnitude of this
task became evident, arrangements were made for personnel
from IMS to be detailed to the staff on a long-term basis to

go through the material.

In a vaulted area across from Angleton's office a
couple of safes were found for which ne combination could be
located, and which accordingly had to be drilled by
specialists from the Office of Security. Kalaris rejecte as
untrue the image conveyed in Mangold's book about. Angleton
that has him personally leading SHAT teams of safecrackers
as thay went about opening the Angleton safas,* but it is
correct that he was present during the drilling. He had

naver seen this operation performed before, and was

interested to observe how it was done.

Some curious and some disquieting things turned up as
the new team gradually made its way through the Ci Staff

premises.

“~-On the lighter side, in one safe two Bushman hows and
geome arrows were found. Concerned about the possibility

that the arrows might be poisoned, Kalaris had them sent-~

* Tom Mangeid, Cold Warrior, Simon & Schuster, 1991,

a

SECRET SENSITIVE NOFORN

oid
 

)SEP.28.1998 8:30PM A

NO. 279 P.9
SECRET SENSITIVE NOFORN

any of the other geographic divisions. If the divisions had

t

any significant cases, Kalarig wae unaware of them hacause
the divisions were giving him nothing of substance. McCoy's
arrival in the staff made this picture unmistakably clear
rd since, fresh from SE Division and a position therein that
nade him privy to virtually all the division's sensitive
cases, he was able to tell Kalarie what he was missing on

the SE front.

It also before long became evident that there was an
element of a two-way street in thie aituation. Seviet-Fast
European cases were discovered in CY Staff files that the
area divisions had never been informed of or had only
limited information about. These included such cases as
MORINE (a past FBI source of voluminous GRU operational
documents who was known to the Soviet Division but whose
operational leads had been shared neither with that division
nor with the other geographic divisions in whose territory
the Soviet agents were working) ;[KITTYHAWK] (a KGB officer
who had contacted CIA during a visit to the United States
several years back and who figured in a double-agent game
being run by the FBI) ; [GRIDIRON] (Leslie Janas Bennett,
former senior officer in Soviet counterespionage in the
Canadian RCMP who had resigned from that service in 1972
under a cloud of suspicion engendered by the Angleton staff
and its guru Anatoliy Golitsyn--a case never briefed to

/
‘ either SE or EUR Division); ana [wap rvoq), alse known as fozone/

 

|pteaaisence officer

 

 

who defected in[ Jin 1972 and subsequently came to this
country and was debriefed by CIOPS officers, but whose
| information and leads had not been furnished to the area

daivisions).

Many of the people in the staff had been hand-picked by
Angleten. They had been in their jobs for a number of years

and were well settled into theix way of deing things. So

SECRET sensirive NOYORN ) oY C

Ped eee eal
74-00000

SEP. 28, 1998
a :

.

le

3: 3@PM A NO.279
SECRET SENSITIVE NOFORN

had written a provecative analysis that found Nosenko bona
fide and challenged as incorrect the Monster Plot
assessments to the contrary. Even more provocative, he had
provided a copy directly to then DNPCI Richard Helms when
stymied within tha Seviet Divisien in prometing his view.
Kalaris first learned of this well after McCoy joined the
staff, when McCoy himself told him. Angleton, on the other
hand, was certainly not unaware of this part of McCoy's
background, and it is likely that he and Rocca and Miler
interpreted Kalaris's selection of McCoy as evidence that

Kalaris was out to discredit then.

Kalaris, originally having been summoned home to take
over temporarily until a replacement for Angleton could be
found, had a title in the beginning as “Acting Chief,
CIOPsS.* In March, Nelson told him, "We haven't found
anybody yet," and as time went on it looked increasingly as
if he and Colby were not going to find anyone. But by this
time Kalaris was becoming intrigued with what hé was doing,
and with the potential of the job. fie went back 7 a 2
to see his family in late March, and when he returned he
told Nelson he would take the job on a permanent basis. In
June, the “Acting” was dropped and Kalaris became Chief,

CIOPS.

What Kalaris Found...

The state of Affairs

As he looked around, Kalaris found what struck him as a
desolate situation. Mountains of traffic were coming in to
the state, but none of it seemed to be of much importance.
The ataff had no relationship with the Soviet Division or

6
SECRET SEMSITIVE NOFORN

P.8
be ee ee wteties

a ‘ 4a
A ee
. “SECRET —

on this list are opened. This watch list is revised
quarterly. It is made up of names of interest princi-
pally to CI, SR Division, and the Security Office,

and includes names listed by the FBI.

"£, There are trained linguist-analysts in the
Branch who extract information of interest from the
intercepts, and the disseminabjlity of this information
is determined by the Chief of Projects Branch. At
present the rate of dissemination from Projects Branch
runs at an average of about 150 per month and the
number is. increasing. Sixty percent of these dissemina-.
tions are positive intelligence. The disseminations :.~
are controlled by the Deputy Chief of CI Staff.

"g, SR Division has obtained valuable operational
leads from this Project, and the FBI wants as much*
information as it can get by this means. .

"h, There are 40 individuals in CIA who are
officially cleared to know about this Project. These
include members of SR Division, Office of Security,

CI Staff, and RI Machine Records, COPS, DD/P, DD/S,
Director of Personnel (due to his previous service in the
DD/P): and the Chief, FI Staff. The DCI, DDCI and the IG
Staff also have access. to the Project.

"i, It would appear from present results that much
moTeéevalue could be obtained from this Project if more
intercepts were opened. Project Branch is at present
handling four times as much volume as it did in the past
with the same number of personnel and at the same cost.

“Its staff at Headquarters is capable of handling 2,000

per month with the present T/0, but the New York staff
could not supply that number of opened intercepts unless
its personnel was increased. It is felt by the Branch
that a rate of 4,000 intercepts per month would be a
good future goal. It is estimated that this would
require an increase of one interceptor, one secretary

and one letter opener in New York and an addition to
Project Branch at Headquarters of four linguist-analysts,
four clerical personnel and one reports officer.

"J. The Office of Security, which works with
Project Branch, is agreeable to the gradual expansion of
the operation. It would be in favor of expanding at
present to the extent of opening more intercepts, and .
taking samples of thesé intercepts for S. W. This could
be done by the aforementioned increase of Security Office
personnel in New York without an immediate increase in the
Headquarters staff. It would be operationally much more
feasible if a secure room could be obtained in the Post
Office in New York for their sole use.. Since the DCI
made the original arrangement for this operation with the
Chief Postal Inspector, any changes in the system of
operation should be made in the same way, This is the
only level at which such arrangements could be accom- ;
plished securely." 7 : .

SECRET

51
 

versus area division prerogative in the conduct of operations.
Noting that there might have been some immediate reasons for the
CI Staff to take on operational aspects in its efforts to increase
cI activity, nevertheless it concluded these reasons were not
necessarily based on the best operational and organizational pro-
cedures and methods. ‘The normal staff functions, the survey
opined, could be carried out effectively with a much smaller but
highly experienced staff whose impact and counsel would more
favorably be received by the operating elements of the DD/P. The
team also concluded that there had been insufficient attention
given to penetrating hostile intelligence organizations and
recommended that:

“Chief, CI direct the efforts of the Cl Staff! toward
the development of programs for the aggressive pursuit of
penetration activity against hostile intelligence services."
Ina forward to the report, the “Inspector General of the day,

Lyman’Kirkpatrick, directed special attention to one parficular
aspect of CI work.

"The “Special Investigation Division assists the
Office of Security in using DD/P assets to trace leads
concerning CIA employees. This is probably a necessary
assist to the Office of Security but should be handled
with the utmost of discretion and security. It would be
very seriously damaging to the efforts of the CI Staff
if it ever became known that it was engaged in any_ .
activities involving CIA employees. An analgous situation
is the stir caused by the occasional misimpression created
abroad that CIA reports on‘other US Government employees.
Thus within CIA the. Office of Security must be the sole
unit to bear the stigma of being concerned with fellow
employees." :

Unfortunately this sensible warning was not heeded by CI
Staff management, or by the management of the Clandestine Service
as a whole for that matter. Instead, in.the mid~1960s the CI,
Staff, with SIG in the vanguard, hypnotized by the allegations

v
of Golitsyn, launched HONBTOL - the active investigation of.

numerous Agency employees (five in particular) - with generally

SECRET

5$u
..
7’ SER.28.1999 3:24PM )

Fa .. Weer boo

SE CRET

"S. Plays a direct role in sensitive counterintel-_
ligence liaison with closely allied foreign intelligence
services on hostile penetration plans and operations,

"6. Reviews: compatibility between cover and
assignments of CIA staff members.

"7, Maintains central data on leaks to the news
media and assists the Office of Security, as necessary,
in determining the sources of leaks.

"8, Maintains central data on the nature and
extent of known compromise of Agency staff personnel
to intelligence services, whether liaison or hostile.

a "9, Prepares studies of individuals, including
[journalists) whose foreign intelligence connections are
@ source of concern.

"10. Carries out additional and sensitive tasks as
assigned by the C/CI,"

The first chief of the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) (as
it was called in CSI NO. 70-1) was Birch O'Neal, a former FBI
officer who had transferred to CIA after World War I1.* In the
mid-fifties.SIG had rather slim picking and appears to have spent
most of its time investigating various aspects of the ficuaveoili7
complex (the Boris Morros} case) as it affected US interests based
on information the Agency acquired from foreign sources. Then in.
1962 SIG received its biggest shot in the arm with the defection
of Golitsyn who brought with him several dozen leads to American
citizens including some supposedly in CIA. The-handling of these
leads was assigned to SIG by Angleton, including the information
emanating from Golitsyn, which related to foreign countries. Thus
OtNeal and his assistant, Jean Evans, played a major role in
directing the handling of the Golitsyn leads (or "Serials" as
Angleton invariably called them). The activity continued through-
out the sixties reaching its apex in the period 1964-65 when the

HONETOL investigations (of CIA staff officers) was at its most

 

*The term Special Investigations Group (SIG) became common
usage in the sixties but no exact date can be assigned for
this change.

SECRET

14507 .
3.
7 Ye
+ SEP\28.198@ 3:23PM ag

vw.

,
ro tee

SECRET

The Special Investigations Group of the CI Staff (CI/SIG)

CI/SIG (the Special Investigations Group) did not exist
prior to the establishment of the CI Staff in early 1955, Its
major functions as described in CSI No, 70-1 of March 1955 are
much more modest than the functions ascribed to it in a write-up
by the Staff in early 1973. The 1955 description of functions
is as follows: ,

"Special Investigation Unit

"Major Functions

"Performs the CI investigation and analysis of any
known or potential security leak in the Clandestine
Services organization, whether in headquarters or in
the field, from the standpoint of its effect on (1)
existing operations, and (2) the cover of personnel.
In performing this function, maintains close working
relations with the Security Office, the latter being
primarily concerned in such cases from Agency
sectrity rather than an operational security stand-
polrmt,

By 1973 the description of tasks which had been assigned
to CI/SIG or which they had absorbed during the course of
events over a period of nearly two decades provides a much
broader range of functions and responsibilities, They are listed
as follows:

"CI/Special Investigations Group

"1. Conducts research into the long-range validity
of CIA operations in terms of known or potential hostile
capabilities, including penetrations, and of Agency security.

"2, Carries out coordination with the Office of Security
in such cases,

"3, Maintains and uses sensitive counterintelligence
holdings, including certain Comint and defector materials,
to match these against operational and personality data
and thus to derive operational leads.

"4. Coordinates and cooperates with counterintelligence
and security elements of other departments and agencies of
the USG to detect, tabulate, and take counter-action against
hostile plans or approaches abroad for the recruitment of
American officials (American Targets Program).

SECRET
144

 
 

SER.28.1998 9 3: 25Ppy Aa No.279 pg
oor .

( .
ee : . ee

a and a contract agent; sid In addition to the

Office of the Chief (including two special assistants and a
Secretariat) the Staff was composed of seven "Divisions" and
four “Groups.”}

For fiscal year 1958 the CI Staff budget was

 

 

 

 

 

The sum off las allotted for Fiscal Year 1959, and

 

was to be requested for 1960. Specific figures were

 

quoted in the appropriate sections for projects or support,
such as travel. ‘Otherwise the budget was almost solely for
salaries of Staff personnel.

The survey next gave’ brief attention to deception, agreeing
that it had to be carefully compartmented and that it best
belonged in the CI Staff. On the subject of the “Special Investi-
gation Unit, however, the survey took its first serious exception

&
to the organization and operation of the Staff stating: -
"Hence, in order not to contaminate a senior staff
(CI Staff) with Agency employee investigation and/or

\exploitation, this should be done by individuals with

CE ability within a special section of the Office of

Security. It is ,

"Recommended that:

"a, The DD/P release for assignment to the Office

of Security several individuals, as may be appropriate,

of proven CE ability to handle and exploit all cases of

CE aspect involving Agency personnel;

‘"b. SID and its function be eliminated from CI
Staff; and

“c, The DCI approve the above recommendations."

The survey team took special note of the Projects Branch of |

CI Staff, the section that handled the mail opening project.

How it was operated and viewed in 1959 is not without interest

in view of its subsequent role in the “Family Jewels" issue when .

it was revealed to the Rockefeller and “Church Committees. Thus

it is revealing to note the 1959 survey found nothing wrong with

SECRET
49.

pe
  

the mail opening program except they worried about its security
and also thought it would be more effective if expanded. This
is how the survey described the project in 1959:

“a. The Project Branch conducts a project of
censorship within the US of mail from the USSR which
is called HTLINGUAL. Originally this project was
developed by the Office of Security at the request
of SR Division in 1952. Its purpose was to identify
and to obtain samples of handwriting and basic back-
ground facts on long established correspondence
between persons in the USSR and the United States.
Such information was to be used operationally to
sustain any communications with secret writing,
which would likely pass the Soviet censors and could

' be picked up in the U.S.A. The interception is done
at the central Post Office in New York, and the
letters are delivered to the Agency for processing
and return. As the need for Soviet communication

' Camouflage lessened with the increase of legal
travel to and from the USSR the Project was re~
oriented and expanded toward direct CI and FI goals
in September 1956, and it was taken over by the
CI Staff. ;

te ’
~ "bh, At present this group,dncludes

employees in New York and at Hea TS, w

Those in New York are under thé Office of Security; ..

those in Headquarters under the CI Staff. The
yearly cost is the total of the various salaries.

"c. The primary purposes of this Project are to
produce CE information, operational leads and any
positive intelligence that can be gleaned from the
mail.

"d, The operation in New York photographs
about 50,000 envelopes per month out of a total of
about 200,000 letters coming from the USSR to in-
dividuals in the U.S.A. via New York. These films
are forwarded to Headquarters and examined in the

’Projects Branch and some 10,000 of them are selected
on the basis of Agency interest in the areas of
origin in Russia. These 10,000 negatives are then
made into prints, and the names of the addressees
are recorded alphabetically.on IBM cards. From the
TBM cards RI makes a continuing record and a copy
of this record of names is returned to the Projects
Branch. .

"e. About 1,000 of these intercepts are opened
per month in New York by the Office of Security, |
the letters verifaxed and copies sent to .the Projects
Branch at Headquarters. There is a watch list of
some 500 names on file both in the Branch at Head-
quarters and in the Security Office in New York and
any letters coming from or going to any of the names

SECRET

50
