of her father's intention to come to Washington to make
inquiry at the Russian Embassy in regard to his visit to
Russia. Subject's father wished Subject to accompany him
but she indicated that as a government employee she did
not want to go there,

Ob4. Mrs, TARASOFF says that her oldest sister, Mrs.
[Sherry COMELLA‘knows of her CIA employment and the necessity
Hiot to divulgé this information. Subject stated that her
father and mother know only that she is a government employee,
They are not interested in the Agency or Department where
she or her husband is employed. Subject also advised that
although her landlady and Sears Roebuck Department Store know

her as CIA she is not aware that anyone else knows.

2. Mr. O'Neal asked what could be done about this

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

situation. M id that Subject's husband is in

jlexico under cover hnt had i _

f 2
He

‘Sala ne would m up this ba p so that in the event of .-

inquiry at that it would be confirmed that $2

he is in Mexico on an assignment, Mr. stated that oF

he would provide a U.S, ara jcover for ¢>

Mrs. TARASOFF retroactive to Her entrance on duty. The.

undersigned stated that he would conduct expedite credit
checks’on the Subject and ter husband to ascertgin whether or
not they Had been recorded as Agency employees.

6. It was agreed among the conferees that since the
father of Subject was unwitting of Subject's CIA employment
he would not be specially briefed on what to answer in the
event that the question was asked in connection with his
VISA application. It was agreed that not knowing the specific
Department of Government he would have to consult his daughter
and then she could give the cover which had been prepared for
her. The undersigned pointed out the possibility that Subject's -
father might know of Subjects employment but it was agreed
that in view of his age and background it was very improbable
and that it would be better not to brief him specifically
on Subjects employment but to let the question be handled
naturally.

SECRET | | lee
(tutors) co .
we SECRET

WeCTE. .
Ji led Bete
pe TE Ysie- pre-e
ope af thet om nae ;
7 Pf fot bed.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Cover Support Desk 20/50
FROM : Mr. Robert J. Leonard of “

SUBJECT : TARASOFF, Anna
#131751 B-SB/2

GIST:

A special meeting was convened to consider the problem
of the prospective visit of Subjectts father to the Russian
Embassy to obtain a visa. It was determined that he should
not be briefed in advance and that an army cover be provided
for Subject. “

DETAILS:

1. On 13 October 1960 the undersigned as representative
of the Office of Security met with Mr. Birch O'Neal, CI Staff;
T.K. Chalmers, CI/Projects; | coc/Dc; 6?
Thornton W. Means, OCG/OCB aid thé Subject to discuss the
problem of a prospective trip to the Russian Embassy by the
Subject's father for a trip to Russia, __... : cote

 

 

2. Mr. O'Neal had Mrs, TARASOFF recount the details of
tthe situation, She said that several months ago her father
ANTHONY ADAMOVIEZ had indicated an interest in attempting
appgias ‘to locate his brother and sisters in Russia, He- sent
chenss> correspondence to his home town and received a reply from
his sister MARIYA KALNAK, c/o KALINOTSKIY, VZDEN SKIY RAYON,

  
  
  
   
 
  

Chief [S55

3. Mrs. TARASOFF, on her return from a short vacation
visit to her husband BORIS D. TARASOFF, an Agency employee
'TConverc..On IDSY in Mexico, visited her parents in Ohio and was informed

seetel ‘ee
 

7. Subsequent to the meeting expedite credit checks on
the Subject and her-husband revealed. no record at either the
Credit Bureau or Stone's. It has subsequently been learned
that Subject's father had visited the Embassy and had been
asked to give a short history and the names of his chiléren,
Subject was listed by her father in her maiden name,
Consequently no further difficulty is expected in this matter,
The Office of Security is to be kept advised of further
developments in this case by T. K, Chalmers, Subject's

. supervisor.

ACTION:

None. Information only, ‘

(et) Leinart

Robert (4, Leonard

a

 
