AON

- * SECRET

The Process

Unless a document was declared Not Believed Relevant (NBR), the classified full-text is required to be
transferred to NARA for storage in NARA's secure area. HRP will make a full text copy of each sanitized
or DIF documents to be sent to NARA; if DO has concern about storing a particular document in
hardcopy, the DO can microfiche the document and the microfiche will be stored in the safe in the CiA
occupied area. A limited number of hardcopy documents can also be stored in the safe. HRP expects to
begin the copying. of documents in early September.

Actions Required by 30 September

Concurrence with current secure storage arrangement at NARA for microfilm. (DO)
Copy and transfer full-text/classified documents for NARA (HRP )*

Identification of documents to be microfiched for storage in safe. (DO)

Identification of documents that should not be stored at NARA (HRP/DO/OGC)

Completion of this task by 30 September will require significant support resources.

Original Text :
Original Text ~

Barry ,unfortunately we were unable to connect prior to my going on leave. As | will not be
back until 31 Aug | suggest you set up a meeting soonest even if I'm unable to attend. | don't think
1 could add much substantively to this issue in any case. | would of course, like to attend but |
think we should move quickly in getting this issue settled.

 

 

 

 

 

ce: DO, Bill McNair@DO, Gloria Boyd@D{_——=—SSSSS~S*&@OO,,

a Edmund Cohen@bA, James R.
Oliver@DA : :

Sent on 27 August 1999 at 02:32:04 PM : :

SECRET
104-10331-10207
g

 

’ SECRET

CL BY: (06116377
CL REASON: Section 1.5 ¢
DECLON:X1

orv FRM: HUM 4-82

 

TO: Wyx@00

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
DATE: 08/27/99 02:32:04 PM

SUBJECT: fARe: Transfer of JFK classified material to NARA under MOU

The following should clarify the status of the requirements under the JFK Act and the CIA/ARRB/NARA
MOU to transfer originals or full-text copies of all sanitized or denied in full (DIF) documents in the JFK

. collection to National Archives for secure storage:

’ Classifed Documents at NARA

1) Classified originals of the Lee and Marina Oswald's 201 files held in secure storage.

2) Box 64 (72 reels of microfilm) of the sequestered file, Temporarily stored in a safe in CIA occupied
secure space (OIM/ADD); Steve Tilley, chief of NARA's Special Accass/F OIA Staff has combination to the

safe and access to the area.

The above (existing) arrangement for the microfilm is acceptable to NARA; if acceptable to the DO, it will
be considered a permanent arrangement. The safe can also be used for storage of a limited number of
other "sensitive" documents.

Pending Transfer to NARA

The classified origirials/full text copies of all sanitized or DIF documents from the following collections are
pending transfer to NARA.and will be stored in NARA's secure storage area:

(1) Boxes 1-63 of the JFK sequestered collection
(2) Russ Holmes and LA Div working file,
(3) The additional documents added to the collection as a result of searches and special requests

Issues

There should not be a problem with hardcopy storage of most of the documents in the sequestered
collection and working files; however, the DO has in the past expressed concerns about certain
documents being stored at NARA. We need the DO to decide what documents should be stored as
microfiche, and if there are any documents that they object to being stored at NARA. The latter
will require consultation with OGC given the specific requirements of the Act.

SECRET
