 

 

CK 175

  

 

 

 

reserve the name!

3. It {8 suggested that
contact with source-for- Purpos:
potentialities that the source
breach of security,

 

 

 

 

 

\BR

SECRET
  

404-10171-10033

 

 

j

 

 

 

 

   
 

HETURNTS Ch
Background: Use Only
_ Do Not Feproauca

 

“SECRET: ::.

 

‘Chief of Station, JMMAVE dn

Chief, Task Force Ww
GYROSE/PW

cs

Activities of the DRE (Directorio Revolucionarto Eetudianti2)

: _ The source of the information contained in subsequent —
paragr phe is Jose Ricardo Rabel Ortega, -A 12 621 451, Cuban. national
who is the oldest son of Jose Ricardo: Rabel Hunez, the present ©
national director of “Viviendas Campesinas” in Cuba. Source wos a
Navy cadet at the Maric) Academy fron February 1960 to November 1961.
Aa port.of the curriciilum source spent two weeks in Minas del. rrio, .
Oriente Province, during: the. latter part of 1960. From February wo
i2 duly. 1962, “source vorked for Viviendas Campesinns as a general
office clerk. He nay be reached at the following address: c/o Manuel
Gomez, 539 NE 70th Streét, Miami, Floridd, USA,

 

2. Source gave the following information which ia repeated
verbatim herein.
0&0

“In @ conversation on 13 July 1962 in Havana,

 

 

told me that the Directorio Revolucionario

 

 

He also told me that experts in the handling of explosives were
entering Cuba for oe of bridges and railroads.

~ ; se Tes in. charge of the 7

DRE in Havana Province. I also know 6b
who is one of the most important DRE ers In cubis"

 

 

 

In the conversation, I learned also that the DRE is expecting
another ship with arms and ammunition in the near future and a.yacht
which is now in a Latis, American country. The yacht is for use in
activities against the Castro sovernment.

The activities arainst the Castro government to be carried out by

the DRE“are expected to start vithin.e month.or. two. months ‘at the. latest. ~

Note: This information is confidential, and I want it to be kept in
the greatest Possible | secrecy. J have spoken with no one else of this
matter, which I consider very delicate, I want held in complete -

OS Cory (%~ ao-! q°

 

 

3188
