74-0000

4.. Subsequently, on 1 Cctober 1963, the U. S. S$
Service arrested a Cuban exile leader, ‘Mario Garcia Xehly,
Sr., Mr. Morrow and his wits, Cecily, ia connection with a
plot to flood Cuba with $50,000,000 in counterfeit sesos to
depress the Castro economy. Mr. Kehly was the leader of
this scheme, while Nr. Merrow and his wife were charged with

', making the plates for the counterfeit bills. Hr. Morrow,

whea interrogated by the U. S. Secret Servicsa, advised that
Me. Kohly supplied him with a counterfeit 29 pesos bill
which Mr. Xohly said was offered forsale to hin from
agonts of the CIA in Miami. Mr. Morrow also stated that
he had become associated with a “certain agent” after
building a device which he deaonstrated to this agency.

The Secret Service was advised in 1963 that the Agency

did not have any interest in 3r. Kohly. SO

5. There is no ‘information in this file verifying
My. Kohly’s allegation that he had obtainsd the counterfeit |

bill from agents of tho CIA.

6. Mr. Thuermer has been advised that he may tell .
hr. Blumenthal that the Agency entered into a contract with

' Morrow Products, Inc., in September 1962 whereby Mr. Morroyv:

was.to develop a piece of equipment, but that the contract
was terminated in April 19635 after the prototype of the.
equipment had been tested and found to be unsatisfactory.

Robart ¥. Gambino .

’ Distribution:

Orig. & 1.- Adse a

; 1 -. D/Sec SO
~ CD Reading File
- Subject File

i
“2.

,

mf (18 March 1976)
jm (24 March 1976)

  

 
/10440095-10180

 

    

CIA
+0
oi use oo

is]

Baa wn7e
g4 USR 7S

Ain wi O

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Administration

FROM :: Robert W. Cambino.
Director of Security

SUBJECT . 3: Morrow, Robert Dietz

1. This. memorandum is for your information only. |

2. Mr. Angus M..Thuermer, Assistant to the bel, has |
advised that Mr. Fred Blusenthal of Parade magazine. had
telephonically contacted him and said that a Robert De
Morrow had written a book entitled Betrayed, which was dua .
for publication in May 1976. Mr. Blumenthal advised that

; he is currently reviewing this book, and that it contains.

mo critical comments concerning the Agency, e.g. the |

Agency ‘was responsible for the assassination of President
John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blumenthal also stated that Mr. Morrow
clains to have been a CIA contract man. Mr. Slumeathal :
desired to verify Mr. Morrow's claimed association with
the Agency, and Mr. Thuermer requested that this Office
review its files to ascertain whether Mr. Morrow was . .
in fact associated with the Agency, and if so, wnat infor-
mation could be passed to Mr. Blumenthal.

' 3. The Office of Security does have a file en
Robert Dietz Morrow, born 29 January 1928 at Pittsburga,
Pennsylvania. Mr. Horrow, as of June 1962, was President
of Morrow Products, Inc., located in Baltimore, Maryland,
and the Security Staff of the Office of Logistics was
granted a Secret contract clearance for use by the Office
of Communications on 19 Septeader 196Z. The Agancy then .
entered into a contract with Morrow Product3, Inc., to
produce a prototype of an adapter. to be used with a radio
receiver which purportedly would greatly reduce later-
ference. A model of the adapter was delivered to the
Office of Communications in February 1365, but the. device

. was found to be worthless and the coatract vas terminated,

O35 § 1232

 
