 

 

  
   
   
  
 
 

 

(B. ma wSecretary of Paosant abtivities: Mstios igue

  
  

te

“9 ‘ . eae

“The Union of. Puebla
The Zeceration of Studenta of Chigqueque
°+ The Fedsration of Students of Durango .
The Sederation of Students of Sacateoss
‘The fedarétion of Studente of Aguas Colientes :
"| Many individual schools and those whien are aesbere of etnse
os orgenisationa. a . 2
The Executive Coanittee consiets of ths ¢iTlewlags .

President: Pariques Rojos B. — Lo
Vice-Frestesntsr PEt ‘AEP PEUM FEO PLUS uF .
! General. Sceretary: ando waller R. ‘ ay .
* Recording and archi Secretary; PableJSendevage * tore
ingnetal Secretary: Gilterto J¥alensufia Ce. . .-
a Vp grnisational Seeretary: Wario, Reyes fivareg c= oot
¢S and Sducationsl Preeeduree; franeiece 2°

 

 

 

 

~~ a Secretary ef Bisput
pee siege

am Secretary of Frees and Publicity: Foustine/Lopes : :
foot S¢eretery of Foreign Relations: ines. . .
ve spe Secretary of Interns] Relotione:, antu SBireg t= . a
ate’ Meretary of gortura and trade Union activities; Feusto”Burgeens

t
Pow Secretary. of Edacagione] activitieas Gabino} Organiets
ay Secretary of women’s Activities: ia da Je eus{Se pulvere

eeresery of Scholarships: arwangojaivaredo
oo igielotive Comaission: Lespold ches Duarte
pore Dera Vigilenee Council: Rafsel Reuilar Talewantes ,Preaideat

. t he prosidium of the conetitutant congreon was eleated

from among these State universit organisations, in Msy of 1966,and
its tera of of tieg will run until 1968. It haa organieed @ pew
astaonal centre of democratic ptudente which represents raher
broad opinion in the Mexican atudent movement.
Tha FHET ig quite an old organisation which fe Peelly ree
ative of the Mexacon atudent oovenent in the branch of .

 

. present. :

hig: Uechnical studies. This srganisation is astionally nell

bre tod. At ite lost congress, the FNET waa Pepe éoonsed
Confeder ebion

  

300 delegates, six of whom were delegates from tl
Of Bexienn youth. They approved: the allowing resolution: Firet
Mt to. recognise the CNE aa the Paprasontative organisation of
Mexican students, This orgonisation, inoidentally, fe affikieted
to the I150/COGES. Secondly, the diveffiliation of the PRET from
the Confederation of Mexican Youth. Ty lecieion was teken bee
Seuse of the reeant evento which cecuged at the CJM Congress.

SOHERDERATION OF MOLCan youtHt

AD Organisstion of a completely pouthetype, whieh maine
taine 6 student seeticn f-rned by the PNET and another oe gar « .
nisaticn of 4 State nature, All thoee are minorities in

Mexican student arvement, chave all thoes eectora oF the

Student sovement which Bointoin the line of tm governmantal
‘Dry the Institutional Revolationary Party. vt this tie thess
Student aeetore Reve no strength w reprdsentativity since the -
PRB? no longer belongs to thio orginisation snd since ot the

leat Congress of texfean Youth 4¢ wea split into two te, both
of them sinoritiss, which gail ¢haaoolves repreeentst
the Confeceration of youth. . i

  

 

   

  
74-00000

   

oA ee ae A

     

°
ce we EA oer ae ome Se TRAE ERIN ER AEA
%,

  
   
  
  
  

 
   

| o3-
: n, the Latin Anersean Crastecion ©
ving in the Mexseon studeat we
ith reepect to Wnsir fagke
Tie eitestic®

 
       

    

ow Seal
nts ACN7D/ wnicn is ast @ aeeeer of che 7 St

; J conversstiond Male Cetwoea the .0 kere @
. ends @ation end some maabers of tha ist, they shred
an interest in affiliating to the IVS tn the reer Putude.
_ Ye obould be nsted that Both arginiesti mes par tiagpe ted
in the Vth CLAS snd formed @ Z21nt Selegeti in onigR ae6 @ -

+ @dngle vote.” . . . .
and. There-exiate ensther orgenisativa: Tre Botisaas Bteigate
Centre /CNB/ whack 36. ack Pepresentative of tre Wss¢ed oteteas

. movement “and which meintsing rescticnary pgs thee. ot 38

‘* gffiliated ta the ISC and 1@ Ast 5 meaber oF tee S68, oor

| does 4¢ ahow any intentions -f oeccsing 8 seater.

Finally, there exiete the ccrfesereticn af Ge. cen

_ Youth ACUM/ which s2tnough it grouse atstentes, age @ .orgesy

, outh character. It 19 o member cf the SiS. at tale time

| te representativaty hee °

   

       

      
         

  
   
 

       
      
    
     
   
 
      

fon of the FNET end it nes suffered spganie epiit elace
there now exiet two CJMa.

     

somes

  
 

eran.

hee aeamany LOG?

® fours: 4 Fegnlar ecuzes, probetiy reliable, ie Gives? goed

’

 

 

 

 

  
 

104-10178-10105 omer :

 

Fa -
i)
’
&
. TT ay, ee

 

 

 

 

rrea RSVORE MO, ORL 47,631

expoata <n pares 29 March 1967

O7PiCHN «= '), Lereg f. eanswoats _—_
a  — stracmenrra,

anon Fy

APPCOVED BY: Victor T. CRONTION REPERRECE:

SOURCE

 

 

'
i
BtOTRIBYT TOM? — aaantngton - ail
Lek
it.
SBCROT AD POSEICS pCama
CneD 4 oa
Gustedad free es tommtie
‘ Guregrediag abd das laael fieatien i
ho c+ 8 a wtmie y
. . . ves = pega ocean - —]

 
 

cf

 
     
 

   
      

onped

i SECRET “|
OT wo yoresn OSS

Ort

1/103. 89 SF
thtn Meron 1967 2: Fi

 

Kexico/International Front Organisations
Political/Communies , .

Report to the 2.0.9. on the Student Kovee
sont in Hexies

(Jemary 1967) ;

 

 

Attached 19 a copy of a report to the 7.0.8. on
tho Student Lovement in Mexico.

a 2
:

attechnent :

: 4

i ;

a] i

- ‘

:

d

i

;

WO FOREIGH.DSSER
SECRET tt

 

 
Taypouo9

 

: -e . aveicwey
! | FOR Secabtaaia? INFoRUTION osE/ 2 fash
; Givea by aguilar + Lat wey 25e26 38?
; QUTHE.GIVIRTNOYSERIL.WESIG@

See ety tun cocomis woven, |, oe
; enent has the following |- ||

| -sene which makeo it impossible to group ell. the federations of

    

  

At these moments a strugsle nas been going on fa recent .
yetre in the, democratic sectors of the Mexican siudest Evves ~
Beat with regord to the unification of tha student moversate . -

_| at present in Beales there ere 28 state universitica abe
largvat of which de the sutencacus University of iaice enleh,
- Bea bout 00,000 stugente. : . v
~ 14.822 the etates of doxive there are atate usiversic
tice ard, mordover, there are higher, educetione] souress st
the ‘technical devel wnich today tgroup 70,000 students in quer
“braache or private education directed ty the clergy and
bourgeoiate.. ~ oy .

    
     

 
 

       
    
   
    

    
    
   

. ‘fhe dfepersal cf the student soresent
eharecteristicn: ‘the atudent organisations: maintain @ degree ©
of organisation on the etete level, but not on the netional:
level. Thus, we find that tha student movement ia bettar ore

aniseed on the technical te ved whioh is represented by the Ca

. Bt +: .
; In the aytonomous University of Mexico, there fa to .
single organisation; all the facplties hove thir con orgenisate

      
      
    
      
     
   
    
 

ail the faculties inte a single body, sing? @ tendency tow

separstenees existe in each of thik.
GONCESS ING THE CUE: . . .
; carried on entirely in the clerical ead pric

vate universities and therefore dors not have u character ree
. presentotive ef the Kexican student sovement. . .

id In May of 1963, the ‘democratic ané progressive aeoters
1,0f the Mrrican student govement decidad to meet st the Confe~

rence of Morelia which attracted about 100,000 students.

This conference had the purpose of join the struggle fer a
the coordination of the student sovement order to breax
with the financial policy: and corruption of the governasnt.

The Morelia Conference proposed the uniting of the etue

“dente in a single centre which would wage ths struggie fer

tha refora ond democrstisstion of education and for netienal ‘
iberation. #ith this ojo, 6 mw otudent centre was orgemived.  - |
in Maxies caked the National Centre of Demooratie Btudsntes
It includes the following affiliated etudent oP gon. eatieas?

the Federotion of Socialist Pesesnt Students, which ae

27 affiliated sahools. - . .
The Federation of Studente of Lover California.
The Federation: of Students of Asntrit .
Ths ration of Stucents of Sinsica
The Federation of Stuents of Bichuscaa =,
Tha Federation of Students of Guerrero”

    
   
 

  

     
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
    
   
     
     
   
     
     
   
    
    

 

     
   

   
  
   
