 

e/rd

SUBJECT: Hoaor Awards Recommendations

ee ete

rs mt Lo OF” oe
03 (8) Second Prosentatica: (Bani 64. Mastor;)
(rnosdere 3, Roussos.) The Deputy Ghicf, S& Piviston
on 21 September 1956 recommended. rneliy that
. Sor operational reacens the gagtter of giving the -..--
Sttations and ewards into thelr perceasl custedy |
be determined at some later te :

(3) Third Presentation: (Jom E. Suirley,/
93 Ahir
C ames W. Lair] Recommendation
Comained ta paragraph lg above, °F /

 

 

  

    
 
  

 

 

oe SACs
There would be no eveurity objection
these citetiens and awards inte theie
custody Subject te paragraph lm ebove und cartain
Stipulations as preseribed below by the Bivisien
conceracd, .

    

 

(a) The Deputy Chief, WH Bivisica
informally recommended en 21 September 1956
that the citations pertataiag to the above .
persons should be marked "CLA internal .
Use Caly“. (it is meted that the project with
which these awards are concerned was within
the juriediction of the WH Division.)

._. (b) The Deputy Chief, WH Divisten |.
also stated that Mr. Phillips is now under
that the citation end award not be physically .
wleased inte Mr, Phillips’ porsonal eastedy
while he ie under such cover aad also sequested
that this metter be reviewed st seme later date.

(ec) Regarding Mr. Senches, the Deputy
Chief, NEA informally requested that ¢ince
Mr. Sanches was out of the States PCS for

Cn:
a
Vid 10128-10363

o  y a _ ee

‘Chairesan, Honor Awards Board SEP 25 tec

 

Acting Security Advisor, HAB

 

3 Honor Awards Recommendations

Ref : Mame for Chairman, HAD dea 12 Sept 56 from Mr. Rabert M. Geyer @
Subject: Approval of Pending Honor Awards Recommendations .

1. Reference memo requested that the Acting Security
Advisor to the HAR review the casee contained therein te dstermine
if the citations and awards, whea proffered, may be retained by the
veciplents, With reepect te this request, the fellowing recommendations
are subnoltted:

a. Recommendation by the Gecerkty Adviser te the
HAS that awards and citations should not be physically
released into the recipient's personal custody if PCS
overseas until he returnd te Headguarters PCS ie confirmed.
fm euch cases there will be no security chjcetions to
notifying the tedividaal that he bad been awarded the medal.
Such notification should infers the recipient of any
appreprinte security restrictions relating te the award.

a>) First Preseststion, Reger Cotran
Toseph C.

[There would be no security ob-

jections to giving the citation and award tate their

personal custody subject to paragraph la above.

 

 

 

 

 

i
tt

with reapect to Geir Goodwin kas the
: informal concurrence of the Deputy Chief, NEA

; : BOtviesisa, The Deputy Chief, FE Division informal!
iL concurred im the ebeve regarding Mr,
1 . a ie

 

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reprocuce

t/pd
baw20000

fed

aa_(5) Fifth Presentation: |

SUBJECT: Honor Awards Recommendations. _

that Division, thot for security and caver rensess

the matter of physical release of both the
eitetica and award to Mr, Gancher's perseanl

. custody be considered upon his return PCS to

the States.

 

{@) Regarding Mr. a Come

. Chiet,
Communications Division informally atated

on 21 eptember 1956 that for security end
eover reacons the matter of physical

of both the chtaties and award te Mr 0%
personal custody be considered upen hia -

retura PCS te the States.

informally September
936 that Mr. netified ef his award
but neither the cRation er award be physically
delivered into his personal custody.

23

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation ja above
extept that in the case of Mr Colenel Boberg
of the Cflice of Basic Intelligence requested that
this citation be maxked “CIA Interehl Bee Only”.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contained in paragraph Ia above except that in the
ezse of Mr. Bower, Colenel Boberg of the Office of
Baste Intelligence Fequested that this citation be
marked “CLA internal Use Cnly”.

ei

 
 

i

 

 

 

release of the the citation end sward into the personal
custody of atr.[Feye)nct be made of this time.

(9) Niath Presentation: Willlam 3. Marr

 

Security Advisor, HAB in hie memo of 4 June 2956
with respect te the iseuance of thie award fs confirmed,

2. in addition to the above, the matter of publicity regarding
these awards is pointed ont.

 

 

PS/PS: WHWiekh
