 

WAnastasia" case and that he is going to have a hand in ‘this. As I did Spot z ask any

. Subject: My Work for. the "Anastasia Case.

-2-

Mr. K. called me up again, because he had to tell ne something, We met for lunch

in the cafeteria, and he told me most confidentially that Lois had left him and
lived in an-apartment downtown , They simply had net been able to get along. That |
was the last time I sav Mr. Kee oe
Since that time, there cannot have been nore than 2 or 3 telebhone calls. i
i
He never informed me about his job with the Goldwater campaign; this, I heard |
|

through the grapevine in the Agency. + The last time, ‘Theard from Mr. K. was a

telephone call in. the “‘heency shortly before Christmas. He asked for By: address

: Ghich is in the. telephone book) apparently in order to. send us a Christmas card.

he.

“phennhe ‘told ma “sone details “about Goldwater's handwriting, as°if- he had interned! :

'

me about his previous assignment, And when I asked him about his professional pro-

spects, he stated thet there are new developrents in Mew York rezarcing the

further questions, this was the end of the converseticon. — Ths "next thing I-saw,

was. the "Daily News" article,. rv

cent eet nneeerseittttt ttt

In September 1963, I received various late night telephone calls fron Gleve
Baxter in New York City, explaining details of the case ‘involving Eugenia Smith
who claims to be "Anastasial’. C.B. asked me to look over the handwriting material
he hes and cake any coments related to it whick could give some psychological clues.)
~ As I left the following weekend for Puerto Rico, C.3. sent the handwriting nater- |
ial (from 1912 to 1963) te the hotel there, asking for an early reply. - I sent a !
report regarding psychologica?. aspects in the development of the handwriting, more
or less es a basis for the work which vould have to be done by a questioned document |
examiner. After that, I did not hear much anymore, excevt that the publisher

peller and Co. (for whom C.B. was. “working) sentine a copy of the book "A anastasia™,
[td 10250-10081

.

 

Januar 22, 1965.

eee

Subject: Contact with Mr. Kimssy after his Separation from CIA.

As my former supervisor for 6 years in the Agency, Mr. Ke apparently
wanted to keep up a superficial social contact with me. Every 3 or 4 months, he
culled me at hone or in the office; as 4 rule, first to inform me ‘of seme article or

TV program which could be of interest to me or my husband, and second, ‘ to inform

me of his various professional prospects, As far as I recall, there were tyvo_ or

three neetings for lunch in the cafeteria across the read from the West Gut Building

and one dinner invitation in our hone, The first Tunch meeti ng may have been in

small English handwriting specimen which was supposedly writtan by the Grand

- to ; : i
spring. 1963. Lecoréing: to ny recollection, Mr, Kq-gave ne-the reproduction ofa...

Duchess “Anastasia of Russia, Mr. K, asked ma to send a short report to Cleve
Baxter, Rew York City, who vas working ‘on the case that a woran’ Eugenia Smith
elained ‘to: be " dmastasia". I sent a report that the questioned docunent was Fro-
bebly uritten:t by an English speaking person,..to Cleve Baxter. (I had met Cleve -

of.
Bax ter previously at an Academy for the ‘Adve: ancenent/Seionce meeting in New ‘York. :

“he had worked for CIA.). To ny knowledge, this was the” only connection of Mr. K.

with my werk for the "Anastasia case. -

 

Mr. K. had claimed that C. B, is his friend and forner tusiness associate and thet ,
In summer 1963, we got suddenly 6 telephone call from Mr. K. informing us

that he had gotten wa-rried and had returned from his honeymoon trip to San Fran-

cisco for which he had used up his retirement money. In “ugust or Septesher 1963,

we invited nim and his wife Lois (whom he wanted bs to meet) for dinner in our

house. Lois was 4 good-looking, very Lively woman, around ferty, who nade so much

smell talk that, to our amazement, Hr. K, hardly said a word. My husband and I,

woth had the inpression that the marriage would not last long. - In April 1964,

 

eens

 
74-00000

‘iy

 

   
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
 
 

3.
I never made a handwriting analysis of the case, and the bill for the work TI had
done was never paid. To my knowledge, in this phase of my work, there was not
any connection with Mr. K., and he was not even nontioned in my conversations with
Cleve Baxter. -

Two weeks ago, Mr. Baxter sent me (without comment) the reprint of a New
Hampshire newspaper, in which the appearance of the former "Gzar, a former CIA
agent, @ Polish yaene Col. G., was mentioned. I marked this passage. and brought

it tothe office, where John Gittinger forwarded it immediately to Faul Gaynor, ,

    
 

The Former CIA Agent, the Polish Col. G.

Subject:

In my contacts with Mr. K. and with Cleve Baxter, this man was never mentioned

and I did not know of his existence; until I read the article in the New Hampshire

newspager, ee goes ithout saying: that I.never made a “graphologi eal analysis of his

handwriting, as-per their request. ---
It is possible that i aid werk for the Agency on this man's handwriting under

some cover number or crypt, but up to now, we have not yet been able to identity ite

 

 

 

 

 

 
