be pe ne eet ee nee Semana be nee

* BX-9816°

 

 

1 March 1972
; , , cA
ETURNTO
packaround use oy
~ Do Not t Repros’

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD SO 02 :
SUBJECT: eae of Meetings en
: . ew York City on 14 February and in Virginia on

i7- 18 February 19720

 

az 1. This memorandum covers recent meetings with
(Cro ra: 7 in New York City and in the Northern Virginia
area. The meetings were héld under secure conditions and
there were no security incidents noted.

2. Operational: .

 
 
  

   

: Ss persistent efforts to locate
‘join a pro-Mao study group finally paid off.g@The manager
of the China Bookstore finally broke down under 7's
campaign and put her in touch with a local USCFA study

roup under the leadership of Mrs. Susan Warren, aka Frank.
omy has attended one session and, based on her initial
observation, provided the assessment of Mrs. Warren attached
hereto at the undersigned's request © 7 believes she has
hit it off with Mrs. Warren because of her understanding
of dialectics (thanks to Andy Ness's tutoring) and, consequently,
she was instructed to attempt to develop a social-business
relationship with herg2 With respect to the other members
of the study group;[”_|7 claims that the situation, to date, .
has not been conducive to ferreting out the identities of -
these individuals, but. that she hopes that as the group

continues to meet, ‘some rapport will be established with her
classmates. oo . 2
to 9

; b. New School and language instruction: oh
has formally enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New
School for Social Research in a course entitled “Comparative
Legal Systems," which studies the theories, institutions,
concepts, customs and which purports to analyze and compare
the law and the administration of law in selected countries,
included China, Japan, Vietnam, Germany, the U.S. and the
Soviet Union 2*[~]7 will also enroll in a French language
instruction course in the near future.

 

 

wate

08687 TT

 

ap

 
104-10074-10355

 

      

rer
Co ye “courpewraat’ steve

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

nied x-9 916

1 Marche 1972

"COMMENTS {Number each comment te show from whe-
to whom, Drow @ fine ceross column efter each commen:

~OYSD Tntersal Use Only ~

This information is not to b
disseminated outside CI/SO
without prior approval of
Chief, Special Operations
Group, cl Staff. .

Originated by: W. ~E. Gavaghe
TYPED by = -FE/OPS”

 

Based on:
, Doc: |
Date:
Filed:

SOURCE: © ol a i
Cryptonym TROIKA- 7
Field ‘Station; |

ACTION:

 

 

 

 

i. . oO ee °

Ls

DISTRIBUTION: :
PXTEX NUMERT EX NUNERTCAL FILE (recor

Ro
T7/ Subject site (reorka- 7

ck
T7 Other:

INDEXING: -
ae KP ype > __ date eeislaba
 

 

(pd

. a . Ramparts' Tours - New York Media Workshop's
Womens' Tour: “Acting on a suggestion proposed by Mr. Fason

. 28 June 1972 with

Cc.

Horn, CI7S0, the undersigned raised the subject of the Women's
Tour which is scheduled to visit London, Paris (where they
will meet the rome delegation) and Rome from 27 May -

the interest in,”and likely composition of, the New York
group and explore the possibility of joining such a group
and explore the possibility of joining such a group.0{~}7's

| £irst reaction tothe tour was that the cost ($699, which

price includes airfare, trains, hotels, etc.) was too high.
It was explained to her that the cost factor should not
deter her from following. through. It was then that17

" voiced some concern that the timing of the tour mayZinterfere
‘with her own PCS departure (we had been talking in terms of

mid-May or June 1972 up to this point). It was made clear
to her that no fixed date has been established as yet for
her PCS departure and that the aforementioned tour may well
prove to be.of operational interest, e.g. meeting the DRV
delegation and continuing the staging process prior to her
actual departure"["17 said that she understood and would
look into the matter. She did not believe she would have —
any difficulty in covering for funds should she find herself
included on the tour. . . ot

so d. i s_(SEAR): 7 produced
a copy of the first issue o R, a bi-weekly newsletter
he N . Stud iobili :

ut out w York Uni

n
Committee, Box 59, Loeb Student Center . i se
N.Y.CL 10003°%°"}7 is listed as one of

of this mimeographed new

left publicatio A copy of this first issue is attached
hereto. - One o 7‘s articles will appear in a subsequent
issue of SEAR. o2 . Ce . .

 

 

 

 

22 e. JBMINIMUM Testing and Training: As part of
L_l7's covert training and assessment in anticipation of her
foreign assignment, the undersigned arranged for two members
of the Psychological Assessment Branch, TSD (Messrs. DeMarco.
and Saunders) to administer a JBMINIMUM test to her and to
brief her in the use and value of the JBMINIMUM test in a
field situation. This training and briefing took place on
18 February in a safehouse in,N. Arlington, Va. (A copy
of the JBMINIMUM. assessment ot 7 will be made a matter of
record in her official dossier) o 7 was introduced as _
“Miss Julie" to members of the PAB/TSD for purpose of this
test and briefing. (Mr. Andy Ness devoted the afternoon of .
18 February with 7 for the purpose of continuing her training

Sz, , :
2

 

aT

7 and instructed her to attempt to determine.

       

1 ane ema
 

 

” “7
OTe
rere

in dialectics, which she has found to be particularly useful
in understanding the study group discussion and to ‘permit

her participation.)

(2. Administrative:

ow

pt a. Salary and Operatidnal Advances. The undersigned
paid[ >7 her January salary on a $500 advance on 17 February

1972.” She also received-a $300 advance on 14 February, 1972.
These advances were necessary because of the expenses uz
had incurred in enrolling at the New School and to pay for
her French lessons. (One of the reasons[_|7 was brought down
to the Washington area was to straightén out a problem

she was having with her accounting. Hopefully, she is now

‘convinced that she had been receiving all that was due her.)

o2,b. ‘Tax Administration and Notification of Personnel
Action. was notified of the change in the tax assessment

 

. and of the adjustments in her salary due to the legislative |

pay increase and the withholding of premiums — for _ hospitaliza-
tion. .

“Be Actions to_be taken.

a. 7's assignment abroad. Ober the undéersigned's
discussions with Messrs, Flitcroft and a, telepouch
dispatch wid be sent ' 5 stati proposing 7's

assignment ‘te primarily for housekeeping purposes,
but with a regional mission to perform. (The undersigned
is presently working on this message. -) a

6 i

b. Concelament device. 7 requested a ‘conceal-

ment device for her microdot viewer which the undersigned will
attempt to obtain from TSD. Additionally, the undersigned
will request TSD to provide. concealment devices for |7's

 

' general use as a storage for papers and funds. . Oe

  

an Co iitien E. Gave
- . , Ct FE/OPS

Attachments
_AS stated

09457 |

wipd
