 

‘CONFIDENTIAL

ATTACHMENT To DDCI LETTER OF
18 June 1979 :

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Page 60 DII-PATS, Footnote 4. Use of the word "recruited" is.
inaccurate in the accepted praseology of intelligence. The word "recruited"
refers to controlled agents, which are very different from cooperative ;
private citizens who do not have a clandestine role. Use of the word in
this context could harm future participants, if the program were resumed.
Delete "recruited" and insert the word “contacted” in its place. (C).

Page 72 DII- PATS, Third paragraph. Second sentence should read
"According.to an affidavit that McMillan filed with the committee, her
only employment. with the Federal Government was a 30-day temporary
translator." Delete remainder of sentence. Reference to the Joint ©.
Publications Research Service reveals a classified cover operation
in | conjunction with other foreign governments. (Cc)

Page 75 DII-PATS, Fourth paragraph. Last sentence in paragraph
should read "de Mohrenschildt' s CIA file contained several reports =.
submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia."
Delete remainder of sentence. See 26 March 1979 letter to G. Robert
Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge. Inclusion of specific titles indicates
“areas of pointed Agency foreign intelligence interests. (C)- :

Page 76 DII-PATS, Third paragraph. In the next to ‘the last
sentence of the quotation, delete the remainder of the sentence following
the phrase "he furnished fragmentary intelligence...," which refers to
the attempt to obtain financial loans from the Agency and is of a confidential |
nature and not relevant to the purpose of the investigation. Agency
confidential information on intelligence sources is protected as part -
of the operational necessity of maintaining professional confidence in
the relationships. Revelation of this sort of personal information
could be injurious to the ability of the Agency in this respect. (C)

Page 5 DADE-PATS, Exhibit No. F~7*. Delete[____)to Nosenko."
This reference describes the true name of a CIA operations officer —
currently an active employee of the CIA. He is under cover and his
identity should be protected. (C) :

CONFIDENTIAL.

  

| ene erry cena pope at mn net aga -
RTT Senter ee ;
 

[ng 10148-10180

 
   
 
  

~~ CONRIDEDFDAD. sex

: 4, Washington, BC. 20505
meee 79-0113/X

June 18, 1979

Mr. Edmund L. Henshaw, Jr.
Clerk ; ;
_U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Henshaw:-

Forwarded herewith are conments concerning the final report
of the Select Committee on Assassinations, listing a series of :
points in the report that raise security questions. These comments
cite the section in question, the reasons for changing them, and
suggested ways for handling the matter. .

I trust you will have no problem in accommodating these

   

 

suggestions.
Enclosure
Distribution: |
Orig - Adse
1 - ppcr
1 - ER
1 ~OLC/Subj
- OLC/Chrono
1 - OGC/Rininger :
1 - oS/Sullivan..- ..
1 - cI staff]
1 - SE Div/Sumption—
1 - LA Div/Sturbitts |
1 - OP/Haudescheldt
1- COE eca io .
: 1 - OLC/HSCA/Holmes 2 A
OLC/SDB/ksn 27 7

a ORIGINAL CL BY LEG
{] DECL &REVW ON Motte UIE.
) CONFIDENTIAL Seteroevasor 2

REASON__

 

nn en eee’
74-0000

PRES

‘process of reviewing and printing ‘the draft report. «C):

information conc

a _ CONFIDEN AL

APPENDIX. TO HEARINGS

 

 

VOLUME VI

Page 262, Paragraph | (698). Add the words “ani alleged” in front.
‘of "former CIA employee." The point. here ‘is that. it has never been
made clear that the man known as Carswell was the same as. a CIA employee;
there is reason to believe that he was' not. (C)

Page 267,. Figure IV, lower right. photograph. A photograph of
a former employee, associated jin the report with a man known as Daniel
Carswell, should be deleted. The photograph was provided the Committee
for identification purposes only and is not to be used. The employee
in question was jinvolved in many’ sensitive overseas operatiions.. To:
avoid exposing his identity in this manner and ‘thereby certain clandestine
operations, as welll as protecting his. personal safety, the Agency
photograph must be deleted. Beyond this, the man currently owns a ;
private business with a large clientele and thiis. exposure could also be
harmful to his business. (C)

 

 

VOLUME X

Page 17.. Footnote (58). Change “Ross Crozier" to "Ron Cross.".
Previously the name had been ‘changed to. protect the identity of an
Agency employee and this was simply an error in ommission in the

Page 126. Paragraph (484). Delete sentence "The scheme was. oe
shelved when "derogatory" data about Banister was discovered.” This
reflects methodology and standards used in the seliect‘ion and rejection
of individuals for operational purposes. As a general practice in
maintaining the viability of its relationships with operational assets
it is am important procedure to protect the personal confident
ing individuals. It is noted that we think that

Footnote (64) is misplaced. (C):

    

 

Page 156, Paragraphs (39) and (40).. The presentation makes
it perfectly clear, to anyone who refers to the newspaper story,.
who "the Cuban official“ was. That man's identity must. be protected
for hiis own personal safety. Although the basic operation has been
described in general terms the ident ity of the man jin question has.
never been revealed publicly. It fs suggested that the fellowing-
general Tanguage ‘be used: ; :

"The writers of the IF report. were concerned with
“these assertions because aspects of the newspaper story
were similar in some respects to certain elements ;
involved iin Phase I of the CIA operations. The possibility
off ‘some relationship: with the CIA. operation attracted the
attention of the CIA." {C)

CONFIDENTIAL

Fe cr eng On Ee SRT RRO ee ee et epee tt
ERROR PE SESE STE TLSRRE BEER SE Ea RE a eae AGS
 

CONFIDENTIAL

VOLUME XII -

Page 56. Paragraph (33). Delete sentence "In a fitness report
for...and searches for and develops new sources." See 26 March 1979
letter to G. Robert Blakey from S. D. Breckinridge, in which it was
noted that the fitness report is a classified document and suggest
that the duties of. the employee in question be described in general ;
terms to the effect that "his duties in Dallas were contacting individuals -
in the area who had information on foreign subjects." (C) re

Page 56. Paragraph (36). Sentence should read "De Mohrenschildt’s |
CIA file contained several reports submitted by de Mohrenschildt to the
CIA on topics concerning Yugoslavia." Delete remainder of sentences
See the comment concerning the same subject regarding page 75 DII-PATS,
Fourth paragraph. (C) ; cS , oo

Page 58. Paragraph (44). Delete “Jerry G. Brown" whose name
appears twice. Delete “Gale Allen, a Department of Defense." Allen
a alr ye times. Both individuals are currently employed by
GIA. (C ao

. Page 61. Paragraph (65). Delete "Robert Gottschling," who is
currently an Agency employee. (C)° - ° oo .

me.

Page 62. Paragraph (73). Second to the last sentence should
read "Dryer said one of those contacts was a person who worked for
French intelligence and cooperated with the CIA. (189)" Delete last
sentence. The operational relationship remains classified. (Cc)

There are a considerable number of blank pages and missing pages in
the materials forwarded to us. We are unable to certify as to the
content of those pages. It is presumed that this material will be
provided for review prior to publication. (U) . me

 

eee er I PN RE ERE FA CE ET TIE NETTIE OI EE ETRE TE FSET RE AC CEI GEE TAGE ES
