 

w2e

out by Pelipe Pasos.’ (CQ9ENT: I gained the impression thet these
Fenches might not be returned.)

6. I venlly shoved some sorprice when Ray said that he vould not
make the 1940 Constitution the basis {or bis future government. This issue
came up in the folloving manner: I aske) Ray whether or not he could vork oo
either by joining or by affiliating ~- with the PRD, end when bis enewer -
was in the negative, I posed the question of vhat vere the ereas of agrees . . .
went and of disagreement betveen bin and the FHD. Ray eaid that he had
not ae yet talked tu Tony Varona but that he would feel that there eould
be agreenant on a nuxber of pointe: first, to get rid of Castro;| second,
that there should be civil liberties and indivicual freedom. He aaid
that perhaps the area of disagreement was considerably greater: he
could not accept the 1940 Constitution as the basis for Cuba's political
life in the future. Ovviously, some provisions of the Constitution vould
be retained but especially provisiona for electoral procedures would have
to be changed radieslly: the current provisions sre fostering corruption
and feather-bedding, and are not responsive to the will of the people.
Questions of nationalization and other economic matters would have to be
dealt with more thoroughly in the Constitution. Another point of
egreemnt with the PRD is the fact that it was linked too quch with thé
pest. The FRD, Ray said, ie really Tcny Verona, Of the-f. :
caly one of any true importance amongst the current Execut:
eembere; Corrillo has alvaya been very close to the RP political pos’
ané Artime de a yound fire-bran: without too much braines the rest of the
FRD Executive Committee meubers are nice people individually, but Verona
ie the man to reckon with. Gow, thare ia nothing vrong vith Varona pare .
sonallys te is 4 eincere, patriotic Cuban who has and ‘deverveo respect. as : '
However, Varons is inseperebly linked vith the corruptness of the Prio- a
regime although he, Varona, is undoubtedly a completely honest man. ia
addition, Varona, whether he wants to or not, is a symbol of the past and.
outdated political and cconomie philosophy of the Prio regime... It is.
impossible for the HRP to have any dealings vith or any inks -to that

past.

 
  
   

 
   
  

   

to tie our econosy to that of the Soviet block. We are "quiee’ ‘avere
cor future is linked to cur great Forth Anerican neighbor. - Rowever
Unk can not sean domination or should imply any exclusiviness. Ke
‘bailé up our hard currency position sé that we-ean trede wherever we: .
want to.. You Americans underestizate the strong: “feeling of setionalisn
throaghout Latin Amerlent Don't wee the Marites! Don't tivate! Thies
revolution bas to be generated from the inside, We need Anerfean help |
but this belp must be without strings atteched. Ambassador Bonsal and Lok
Jim Hosl promised us this help, and your, Bender's, dealings with MEP |

representatives here made us very hopeful, but if we can not get thia ado,-

ve Will proceed on our ovn. We ore certain that ve will win, but if we

  
 

104-10179-10017

 

.U. 8. is not necessarily teportant te the econony of Cubaf - Don

COBTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Meeting with Manvel RAY, 15 Bovenbder 1960, at a Motel
in Homestesd, Plorida :

le The weeting ws held in the above-named pisce because, at that
particuler time, Kanuel Ray wae still “under wraps” and we 6fd not vant
to take any chances of having him spotted in Miami. Manuel Rey and bis
wife had been érivee from Taxpa by “Rey Adane® (Ray Dubois) to the above.
named motel; XY had previously called Rey on the telephone from Bew York
at bis Tampa residence and told him that I vould mest him on 15 Bovenber.
The weeting began at 2100 hours and lasted until about 0130 the next day.

2. The highlights of this meeting vere reported in MASHLE9A, Ww
Rovenver, copy of vhich fa attached. The following paragraphs are in.
elaboration of this massage. os

3. During this first weeting, ay intent was to ‘eotebiis
probe into Ray's political thinking, and, vy reiterating previously nade
statements on the Bender group's willingness to eupport the MEP, to ~
establish the Bender group as a private contacto definitive for antic
Castro activities, In line with this, I kept the mesting purposely
es en “exchenge of views" segeion, avoiding any controveroy, but at wo
the came tine, indicating some curprise and sces bevilderment over eone
of Ray's statements.

&, Throaghout the conversstion, Ray clearly etresseé his great
beldef im civil Liberties, individual freedou, and bis position as a
Cuban, and also hemispheric, neationaliet. On a number of occasicas, be
stressed the point that eeoot Likely some of the soletiens he propased
for the post-Castro pericd, wight de viewed by mo with some alegi
Bont you believe, he asked, that what fo important to the :

  

  
 
  

aol
think that the American brand of democracy, which works, odedrebly- ia"
your country, ie not becesoarily applicable fa ite tetauaty 2 in Cobar’

 

 

wentioned eable -- on the need of the nation lisatiog, of ‘gunite etihitieay:
when asked about the agrarian reform and, in this etaieetion, | what woold
beppen to Castro-seised Aneriven ranches, he sald that Lend distribution
end ownerehip by individual fires of land so parcelied out, would ba ao
goal of his governments the criteria an whether or not Amar ican-owosd
ranebes vould be returacd to their owners, wore currently being worked

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

-*

have to dia in failure -- eo be it! 1¢ was et this point when Ray complained
bitterly shout cur hendlicg of the Binesio Waleh affair, Sineeic Walsh was
looking for sroe, He, Ray, wes eager to build up hia organization and.
therefore to drew people like Walsh into hie circle. One of the means to
60 thie was, of course, to sake Waleh dependent on bie, Ray's, ability to
furnish military equipment. Walsh nade a request for arms to Rayj Ray
ehameled thie request to hie American contects im Havena ip the eutiefpatioa
-that he, Ray, would be given the credit by Waleh of having Gelivered the gooda.
Whet happened, hovever, ves that Plinio Prieto, who had been trained in
America, moje contact with Walsh and assured him that support vould be
fortheoming from ® source other than Ray. This, Ray coutinued, was, ine
4ication thet the Americans vented to split away the Walch -group from h
Ray*s influence. I indicated no knovledge about this affair but poo;

the conclusion drawn fron it by Ray.

8 after thie political discussion, Rey elucidated on psychological
aspects of the MRP work: we are revolutionaries, ond thus, vo. ou

at all tines, @ lean and hungry look. Each one of us,. a

level. of cur activities, sust have a feeling of personal,
fron we down to the plain cook, wo must hava opecific: tas!
to do and each cf us must recognize that we will be held resp neible .
the success or fatlure of the specific miseion assigned to ue. Mius, for

inetance, we can not be sstiefied just to uccept moneys we must engage in

fund-raising drives here oni in Cuba. These drives might not bring in

wach and hopefully, Bender will sake up the aifference, but the individual

fund-raisers will have o feeling of accomplishment and will. Bot as “fet eng '

opulent and lazy.

9. Above concluded the over-all ¢fecussion and some éetatled questions
were asked by Rey. Could be beve $25,000 by next voek? (2. comm thes
$10,000.) Could he engage in « fund-raising activity in the U. 8.9 (Z
temporized.) Could be have press conferences? (I seid, why not?) Could
be have radio time? (I said, perbaps.) Could he get military.aidt? (Zz
eaid yes, provided our criteria for furnishing saéh aid vou! Y met y and. .
I repeated, at that point, ay view that there could be no duplfcat:
effort.) fey old we thet the chief of MEP fn Cubs was a ehap by the -
nane of (fou) [Cisnercs) Be told us re ae OG
Spain, would play a ah ae toi role my) yo warfare activities. ©

10. %be meeting closed with our mderotanding toss we would inet gaia.
within the paxt two weeks.

  
 
  
  

  

   

WALLACE 'A, PARLE
wer/pte (19 Hor 60) Fo

Diateidations
Oo CR Pile
i> MASH .
vl « Kanuel Ray dossier : :
1» RP ‘

216k
