!

 

. ‘

Tr rrr eg te oe oleate TT TT mae enema
- f , CONTINUATION OF
we _ DISPATCH SFCReT

: 3. Lise surgested tho ponsibility of his dise
: ' Cussing cach of these fucaivtcml eases with either tho attending

: psychiatrists or with the patients themselves, fither of these
: perstbilittes could be arrange: by tae Station with some advance
notice,

 

4. Ye would appreciate being Ezpt advised of progress in thie
matter.

 

 

 

 

wy :
: 4 mare SG yey
_ ee ALOK EO |
: Tia ae aaa ; !
ts $30 vseostvevstoncn | SLCEzET oan cw ee La |
ne Se _—- eee —-

 
104-10510-10113

 

 
   

      

Chiet, wH

 

| ii Soa Cs
Chictof statiod, Shayne {oo ives
sutuecr cv HBDRAW/PBRUMEN Op bagi :

     
   
  
   
  
   
   

Trausmittal of | VMistory itecords on Three Brigade Neabera
WD ROR Bh Re quiry Psychiatric Care,

 

 

  

ACTION RE Quit

a. During! ae Jaw at Headquarters the latter
Of July 165 gho dincugsed the Subject of this Gispatch wlth
™ 4 Headquarters is aware, J02¥E has two on-colag +

 

attention, Theuy programm cover saodical attention and vocational
fobabliitation trainiog. In thu medical aspect of these prograas
thero ary threo Peychiatric cases Bho represent wh.t sould be bermanont
financhal responsibilities of RUBATK. (Ia adcition to these two
programs, affected Ray of Pigs Brigace moabe ry continue to receive
Nouent financial aupport.) Under the nedical CORAM the Cade County
4se0clatilon bhysicians donated their eervicey &ratis to asuist
those Brigade menbergs and tho iocal Mepitala Lave ug a reduced rate
for their facilities, However, the BSychiotrists cia not seve f1t to
Eeovide thoir sorvicos free of charge, Henew, coets for theso individ
uals range froa $300 to $560 Per month for peofesstonal services, plus

.{ future, UCB choy Paige Ly

4. In digcusslug the matter wlth — jit Zreod
tthe attached caus niatoctes oe Absso Urea" Tre viduals “Lo

 

 

 

by the paychiatric Stack to sey what anclusiong aight be reached anc
what solutions Might be foun. (re aight mention tere tbat at IsAVE ys
recucst, Hoadquarters haw alreacy checked with the Veterang Adaintlutras
tion Concerning thetr facilities but no practical sosation wag renchud
in thie instaneo. see URG. 17,174 of Vl Aiguet Lies, UPGS 5186 of

21 Septeaber 1064, uFG. A¥,COL of 12 October but, uray 3333 of

29 Grtobur 1964 snd UPG4 19,189 of es Gecomser ilca),

; . / Continued / Loon,
Bef) ~ 00 witttrsts

Attachment:
Case His tocies, h/w

Distribution: ~
3-XedicalServices,v/at ar ae ’
inne fe ‘ . UFGA 23,072
wesc, wo/attach ' MRR a

art -n49 i OaTe Desratcnto.

PES
7 Sept 1o33 |. SEP 14
* Pees rex ws elgg--———~

 

 

Cuassricatice,
Stcrer

 

PrOgcARe TOF tha -benctie of the Brigade 25ug wrabers whe require upeciay

wonlo be lorwardad to tho swGical Branch, Tice thoy would ua lyzed

Bis

 
