74-0000

: 10 AUG 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Wemisphere Division

SUBJECT: Spencer 0. Terteling - Contract Agent
Recomaendation for Extension and
Amendmsnt of Contract

1. It is hereby recommended that Spencer 0. Terteling's
contract be extended through 31 July 1966 and amended to

permit the payment of a une-time termination bonus of
$1,500.00, plus $656.87 to cover a round trip plane fare.

2. Subject has been working for JMWAVE in
Political Action since 4 April 1960. Prior to that date
he worked for the Havana Station from mid-1959 until his
evacuation and arrival in the United States on 18 January
1960."

3. In view of the longth og loyal service that
Subject has rendered in the last six years and the
modesty of hig salary/income during this period, WH/Cuba
atrongly recommends approval of JMWAVE's proposal.

 

 

Chief, WiL’Cuba

 

fs i,
‘ tiff ketene

   

AE thet
* drsbinant

 

wave vy OER gg | AMCUATTER

i
i
{

   
  
  

 
74-0000

 

GENERAL RELEASE
i oan

| pt :
Know All Mon By These Presents » that Pers Aah Af! Le ee. an : ’
eS oo .
i Zor and in consideration of the medical care and treatment und other : ‘
i .
consideration provided me by reason of my injury suffered on NA : '
. —— 1 +
at NA do remise, release, acquit » Satisfy, and :

rT
, forever discharge the said

 

, of an from all, i
and all manner of action and actions, cause znd causes of action, suit,

‘debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, bowls, bills, t
specialities, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises,
variances, trespasses, damages, judgments, executions, claims and demands :
whatsoéver, in law or im equity, which against |
. ever had, now has or which hia heirs, executora or adminis-
trators, hereafter can, shall or may have; for, upon or by reagon of
any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, from the beginning of the world to:

: ; the day of the date of these presenta,

 

  

3 hereby acknowledge that I have completely recovered from the’
‘above maid Anjuries and have no after effect from said injurios of any
"Rand or nature whatsoever,

+
te

ae wend tetas serie on
te .

   
 

fn Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hend and seal on the

| dathday ofkuguat, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred
and ainty eix , Po

ae : Bruel ? sen

7 “Bigned, Bealed and Delivered in our Presence!

 

 

 

 

+ rarer BAT Bm

   

san © ivsusmcwnd vieacunen se  & fe bet BLL

 

}
i
ra

  
74-00000

; . led om

SECRET 19 AUG 1966 .

t

.

nee we

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT 2 Spencer 0, TERTELING, Contract Amendment

i
i
!

1. It 1s requested that the contract as amended for Spencer
©. TFRTELING, Independent Contractor, which expired 4 April 1966, -
be extended through 31 July 1966, and that also effective 31
July 1966 it is to be terminated.

2, Concurrent with the termination it is requested that the e
contract be amended to provide for a terminal payment. of $1,657. :
which consists of: : .

@.e Terminal bonus of $1,500. in recognition of
TERTELING's Lengthy period of loyal service
te the Agency, and the modesty of his income.

b, The cost of one round trip sir fare in the amount

   
 
 

  
  

of 9157. -
“ - §, The WH Division concurs in the requests Listed above in
wiew of TERTELING's tenure of service and cal £ performances
¢ (Lil
Wh Vv, Broe

oe Chie
Wedtern Healephave Diviaien

pre a

Gyeclal
HApproved a6 an axtenatun sf contract through 31 July 1966; ag hotles
of expiration and an an amendinent authorising the terminal payment
apecifiadabeves 4 4° 08
e's, = i

<<cme

 

     
 

pal BGP |
74-00000

 

|
|

 

- sie e.. USC Attachment 1 to
. 3 UFGA-25825

(Bhen Filled to)

   
     
      
   
     

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

  

Bernard L. DARKER » 8 about to terminate my

association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with
the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which
concerns the present and future sccurity of our country. J am aware that the
unauthorized disclosure of such information {s prohibited by the espionage laws
of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,

WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENC: OF DURESS, |
AS FOLLOWS:

      
       
     
   
     
  
    

1. L will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-
wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-
ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,
‘personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not Limited
to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government
employee or official without the expresa written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized representative.

   
 

2. IT have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claima t may y have
against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the
disclosure of information dencribed herein. 1 have been advised that any auch
G@laims will recaive full legal consideration. In the evant, however, that. 1 am
not satiefied with the decislons of the Organization concerning any present or
future vlaims I may submit, I will not take evy other action to obtain satisface
tion without prior written noties to the Orvantzation, and then only in accordance
with euch legal and vecurity advice an the Orvanization will promptly furnish mee

3. T de nst have any documents or materials in my posseesion, olacsified or une
@inseified, which are the property of, ar in custodial responsibility of the

Organization, having come into my possesion ad a result of my duties with the
Organ baat: es or otherviges

TE thee pees SL te
hy

fuelna@ my exit processing and “Guring ate pertod of employmant With the Ordste
fention ft have been given an opportunity io raport adi information about the
Orennization, tte parsonhel, ald ihe otvrationa whieh £ eonaider should receive
Official vognizanea, flene, t am tiot awars of any information-whieh It le my
duty, in the national Unterent, to dinciaes ts She Greantaation, nor an f aware
of any Violations or brenchen of aeaurfity whith L have het offlatally reported,
exvept a6 get forth on the raverae aide of thin shees or on other attndlimentas

       
       
      
    
     

   

 

           
         
     
   

ws mare vt eetnortante =

mee me

 
 

 

 

(7Sen Fitted In)

 

not to disclose, I will

said authorities of ny fecrecy commitments to cur government and will request that
my right or need to testtfy be established before I am required to do so.

rant.

IT have read and understand the contents of this cath and voluntarily effix oy
knowledge that this oath was executed for the

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal thie,
Auguet 19.88

seg tt

 

Witnessed by me wtie_L2 Gay of

at Pitan fF Crake.

 

ae es SPE CSSA IS EEE enters itirerenren ne a ees oe

 
 

er aw eta

) .

CUSSIRCATION
- — . op az . :
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division c
ee
CAN RU0GE HUDEXIRG

Commas
sMeTTYPIC/Operationa . .

      
 
        

 
   
 
 

  
   

     
   

   
 

 

ReQuinee. ncsenencee .
Action Required: FYI

References: A. UFGT-17034, 8 August 1966 .
: B. DIRECTOR 27199, 11 August 1966

    
      
       

1. AMCLATTER/1 was terminated effective 31 July 1966 on

12 August 1966 at which time he signed a termination Secrecy Oath
and a Quitclaim, copies of which are being furwarded under separate
cover enclosure. He was, as authorized by Headquarters in Reference
B, paid a termination bonus amounting to three months net salary as

well as the cost of a single round-trip air fare between Miami and
Chicago, The net amount prid AMCLATTER/1 in cash was $1453.17,
although the total cost to JMWAVE of the termination was $1656.87,
including Federal Income Tax and YICA deduction. He also was igsued
a. "W=2" statement showing his total cover company earnings for 1966
including the bonus of three months salary, but not the cost of the
Q@ir fare whioh amounted to $156.87,

     
        
   
      
     
     
   
   
       
   
   
      
   
 
      

4. The termination of AMCLATTER/1 was carried out in an amicable
manner. He seemed ploased with our offorta in helping him g¢.r the
job in Chicago am well as ihe bonus payment, He requested, however,
that it be made a matter of record that he would drop everything in
Chicago and rejoin WOFACT at a moment's notice in any capacity or.
@Galary level, if his wervices should ever be required again, He also
yaisod the question of his citizenship, criticizing both LNERGO and
LNGOLD for their fatiure. to help him. He was told, ag he has been
told on previous occasions in the past, that we could do nothing to
help him on thin mattar, and that any complaints between himself and
other agencies had to ba handled by him alone. He accepted thig

pout tion Graoofully, stating that we had treated him fairly and he
ad ho complaint againet WOFACT.

 
 

, ofA
Attachmonta; pd he el

1 = Boorecy Oath & 4uisuiaim, Usd

Be Letter uf Appitontion, Use

Dintritueions
f= WH/C, w/atts

  

... AUP. ....

Peg hod , can | :

wyerdit.

   

 
 
  

  
  
 

UP A= 2888S
J sorqamperrae maaan

 
 
  

 
   
    

@ Bolegsiess

  

eenheeeearsneaee + Om
+ enscatia tae a Pod

 

12 Ars

 

‘mentee geome

 

 

 
    

 

     
  

    

 

 

" wee “en
104-10164-10194], ae: ee Te
oe ge . ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET m
OOF a __ INSTRUCTIONS C —_ ”
PRIOR TO FIURG _ TO: AeT ACTION BRANCH
11. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap ~
and forward to RID. i hile ao. and. une“ ‘shown are «hot proper,
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records insert proper file +o. below ai forward
- significant action taken or comments requir- document to RID, -.N.
ing freservation.

FROM: BROPER FILE NO.

nip fa/

" TO: ALL ADORESSEES
™ FALL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

. e
>| = ae

Te a

. o

=
¢
€
~~
~—
Le)

Bermenet b Banker

lad leo [Sp] soon
aces _ Ajnt

oo oooo oo
i
Sef ee
v,

 
    

 

to ‘ y 27 :
Se nee aetna neem} yen eta nga mn tse
. co

 

Oc ¢

a+ nena rani aeutel SSRD SERENA teense @uemeenrn nsreemeenersee ees oo 0
o. €
 

paces ones ia

sone

7 nea LE ERPS AES We ARR CEI et

 

 

rn — ve eee ce ee ey
CORTIAUATION OF ‘ : te = ae
VrGs-256824

 

   

 

3. AMCLATTER/1 departed the Miami area for Chicago on

13 August where he will undergo a four week training period with
the Rauland Corporation, a subsidiary of the Zenith Radio Corporation.
The Rauland Corp.ration, which manufactures color TV tubes, employs
@ large number of Cubans, and is in the process of hiring additional
employees from among the Cuban refugees in Miami, AMCLATTER/1, with
our guidance and assistance, vient a letter of application to the ~
- Personnel Director of the Zenith Radio Corporation providing back-
ground data on himself. A copy of the letter is being forwarded
under separate cover enclosure for Headquartcrs' files, He subse-
quently was interviewed in Miami by company personnel officials who
visited Miami in late July, and was hired in a supervisory position
which will involve his working in a liaison capacity between manage-
ment and the Cuban work force. He was promised a salary of approxi-
mately $180 a week per 60-hour work week, plus reimbursement for the
expenses of moving his family and household effects from Miami to
Chicago. He has expressed his indevtedness to us for helping him
obtain the position, and is eager to make good since he believes
_that we were instrumental in his getting the job.

4. As explained in Reference A, AMCLATTER/1's contract was not
renewed in April 1966 because plans were underway at that time to
terminate him. His performance for the past soveral months has been
practically nil, not because he has not been cnger for work, but
mainly due to the fact that he is not suited for what has to be done.
He started working for JMWAVE in April 1960 as a Principal Agent, and
during the period preceding the Bay of Bigs he handled a number of
political action agents and spotted and developed several candidates
for recruitment. Since much of this activity was more overt than
covert, he was thoroughly blown as a WOFACT asset, and eventually
became known in the area as a sort of WOFACT spokesman, a role which
he enjoyed and encouraged. As times changed and the Station began
concentrating on more covert activities, AMCLATTER/1 became something
of a eecurity problem, since any statements or opinions oxpreased by
him concerning various individuals or exile groups were either mis~
taken for “official leaks" or "policy".

6. AMCLATTER/1's strong poinis have been his dedication and
enthusiagm for his work. He has, however, boon somewhat of a problem
in that he is a "heavy handed" operator. who trios to impress his cone
tacts with his importance, thereby committing a number of indiscre«=
tions, A good example of this can be found in his performance during
the recent election of officers in the 2506 Brigade, AMCLATTER/1
had @ number of contacts in the Brigade and was instructed to monitor,
without specifically asking questions, the pre-elestion activities of
the Brigade through his contacts, Inatead of monitoring the aviavle
ties of his contacta. however, he began hammoring away at them,
inatructing thom te work againeat certain candidates, This gave ‘he
Ampragaion that WOFACT was attempting te vig the elections through
ANCLATTER/1, ‘This imncdintely came to the Station's attention, as
tome of those contacts were working for JMWAVE and complained through
theiy oase officers that AMCLATTSI/1 wae throwing hin wolght around
and giving the impromaton that he wan gunning the eleation for WORACT,
Ae » romuit, AMCLATT#N/1L was reprimanded and told a aeaund time that
he wad to report only what he hoard about the alsations and not te

aethvdly aook intewmation, Inalead of heeding thin advices, he. again
suughi out his coulecta and “ahewed" them out for mete ding fits )
troutvio With hin auporiova, Thay nyaded te vd tym ehverenttgte thes Lee
vase vificere, whinh made WatberR wh Lia. io dhtiue fe nad beat
Ingtyested nok to Let them know whit had developed,

 

 

6, fn Qalvnens to AMOLATIAN/L i¢ must be madd that he ts a
sondetentious and tireiaas worker wha heitaved tn what ite wae doing,
ant the took pride in tie amanadation et its WORAGT, ff often atated
that he wie nga really to do gomathtng, and indleaated that he
iid have Liked to have had the opportunity of parttetpatbing in

sume type of PM mativily, a@itiaugh he realised hie age wie againet

one benno

 

 

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

 

a
 

 

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH ° ; Pret sli cited ‘

 

 

 

 

him, Perhaps he was right since it became obvious in the past
several months that he had little aptitude for debriefing refugees
or handling. contacts, In any event, we felt that in all fairness
to. AMCLATTER, that-he should be terminated at the first suitable
opportunity and in & manner that would be helpful and beneficial
to him, It was also preferable to get him settled outside the
JMNWAVE area. He himself realized that he was getting older, and
that there was little opportunity tor him in the type of work that
he was doing for JMWAVE. The job that he has obtained in Chicago
represents a veal break for him as well as a considerable increase
in salary. We feel-he deserves this break and hope he performs
well.

    
      
       
    
 
 
  
 
   
  

  
 

7. There were no major security violations on AMCLATTER/1's
part. His home address did appear on a PBRUMEN intelligence service
censorship list which possibly contained the names and/or addresses
of alleged PBRUMEN intelligence agents .in WOLADY, but the validity
of the list was never fully confirmed and he was SGSWIRLED on this
matter in April 1964 with overall favorable results, Because of his |.
six year association with JMWAVE, he has been exposed to a number of
case officers, some of whom he knows by true name, and whuse identi-
ties 2re listed in Paragraph 3 of his PRQ Part II, Thay can be
obtained from there if necessary.

8. AMCLATTER/1 completed a six weeks basic tradecraft course
in New York City in September 1964. He has had no other formal
WOFACT training. He had no logistical material assigned to him at
the time of his termination.

¢

ial ale due ed

PHILIP G, ELMARD

  
  

Abies i

 

OORT OUT ECL

REVIEWED!

Wren Meolurtaton.

Special Coatractlag Officer

   

 

 
 
  

gana .
e 63a Usd Pasviods gertion,

 

 
