 

NO-173-65

 

- 5 May 155

 

    

Butler mentioned yesterday that, ina th as he was again revising
» be would wedcoae r tions avout addittonsl topics. W
wsugsested questions designed to elicit technical information about ‘the station
and its equipment, such as descriptions (manufacturer, type, model) of trans-
mitter, receiver, antenna type and power, frequencies and frequency range, reli-
ability of cquipment, normal and emergency power sources, remote pick-up arrange-
ments, etc. We stressed of course that none of these topics should be introduced
into the questionnaire unless Mr. Butler was convinced of their suitability for
his immediate purpose as well as for the long-term propaganda aim of his organi-
zation, He stated that our suygestions were entireiy prooer and, in his opinion,
were reasonable requests that would not arouse the station manager's curiosity.
We pointed out to Nr. Butler that, while Information /about key personnel and
their political orientations} about the station's administrative policies, etc.,
was of prime importance to. us, these subjects obviously could not be introduced

into the questionnaire. He agreed that [t would be better to elicit such infor~
mation in another manner, as he kad done with Pbut because
of his very heavy responsibilities, he did not Rave time-to-develop similar
sources of information in each of the other 15 countries.

      

     

       
 
   

 

 

 

4, tt occurs to us that you or a possible consumer could assist us by
; suggesting other appropriate topics for Mr. Butler's consideration in the revision
coal of the questicnnaire. We shall appreciate whatever help you can give us In this
regard.

 

S. in the meantime, as soon as ali of Mr. Sutter's current correspondence
hes been properly filed, we expect ta extract the approoriate information from
the folders and to present the material in a series of 00-B reports

LLOYD A, RAY

 

DABrandao/gn
Enclosures

cc: Services Branch

 

 
‘04: in

Wie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

: : HO-1 72-45

 

chi

    

3 hon , Bie

 

Chief, Haw Grieans Office

The t-formation Council of the Awericas, 620 Gravier Street,
New Orleans, Louisiana 70136

Ref.

we

NO-152-65, Support Branch (Richardson) memo of 28 April 1965, Coe

— 4a SISD CF?

1, The information Council of the Americas (INCA) OF 620 Gravier Street, -
New Orleans, Louistana, was” recently opened as a source of foreign Intelligence
information on the radio broadcasting industry in Latin America, The current
program of INCA is primarily concerned with the dissemination of taped record~
ings of anti-Communist material, called Truth Tapes, to certain radio broad-
casting stations in Latin America and North America for use as a weapon against
Communist penetration in the Americas. Its headquarters are located at 620
Gravier Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 76130. You will) find the names of its.
officers, directors, and consultants given on the enclosed letterhead of the.

organi zation.
A JPLHYO

2. We have been in recent contact with Edward ScannelV Butler, Executive

Vice President and Staff Director, and have received his assurancés of. whole-
hearted cooperation in our agency's mission. (Yesterday we examined all of the
Files ‘of correspondence between Mr. Butler and personnel of various radio-

tations in 16 Latin American count ries.| th order to build up a market for
the Truth Tapes program in Latin America, Mr. Butler first obtained from the
appropriate consul in New Orleans a list of the radio stations in operation in
his country. He next wrote the administrative personnel of these stations
about the anti-Communist purpose of INCA and offered ta supply each station
with Truth Tapes. Those stations requesting them were then provided with a
series of the tapes. One or two years later, Mr. Sutter sent the participating
station a questionnaire designed to elicit information. about audience response
to the Truth Tapes program, Copies of the first questionnaire and of a revised
one are attached for your information. Judging by the responses we read, the
INCA correspondence files will provide a limited amount of information; dated
i304 aad 1345, on the identification of radio stations in Latin America which
are broadcasting Truth Tapes, their addresses, the names of key personnel, the
identification of stations not responding to the INCA offer, sizes of audiences,
and their responses. ta the he exchange of correspondence
between{Nr, Butler and Fontained information about
the political orientation oF ha > personnel“in Montevideo /N0-1Ga7E/.
This example, however, is an exception, ce the files contain virtually no

detatled political information of stunificance,

wf & $OF3
Cory / / =

 

      
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce”

( LY O274dS
