104-10220-10400 woe

.

 

:

tae
: .* oy Pig, . ape nee

 

hs. ; m . : . “hn

KL a

- i 7

‘- 5. ° this explanation of hie peattion was a part of a .
sae Somewhet drawn out disousoton of the surrent extle politioal “

    
 
  
   

+ np OLEUa fon.. Rpeeahene: sake Bebd. gen

  

 
 
 

\STRO governsent, © Wh:
@ still only a'fow of ue in- this
\WE and AMBER were then and ;
sritietes thatithey aro

tof -a tod

   

40 ‘saye of ‘the | a
£ ee ‘eS .

  
 
 
   
  
  
    

Pa “mnere tg no ‘Question
‘the: orzation ‘or’ the FF 9 sin
] f ‘these

f o-

°
av Yeo sreating that almost all
hs, Of thease Maopie. have’ ‘bone tine jor another been: ‘

. gatremoly’ oriticaly of. the EBD As: d. aK

*®Ppom the “boginaing YT have joupported ‘the prinoiple
ot Sxpanding the Rzedutive Jomaltkea ocntinuously so
that “it ean abacrb: the leaserinty material that has.

iy ‘bean. coming cut. of: ‘Guba, 2 proposed. Abel WBSTRE and

 

  
     

BE
:

         
   
  
  
  
 
  

i « HIAO Cardona for the Kxecusive Gommittes, but the
re i others were opposed,’ i have ales triod to got’ Ramon
ak QUIN, Manuel’ RAY and Raul. CHIBAS {nto the Executive
nah f Jomnittee without suceese, What this meant was that

$ then wa finally chose a dosrdinator-he had to bejone

rd

of the five of us, ‘1, wae not really in favor ef: the
4 holes we aadd beoguse of the: artisan area Ul
\ badkground . of. ‘the Rew domrdinats or

' - "nat "o need “argently “to do now ta to resch
ih, 90m0 fora of aealgamation with the MRP, and to a we
cava extent with’ the, Mss There are two yay

  
       

   
 

104-10220-10400 .
a, ; . .: Released under the Jehn F. Kennedy Assassination
soem os . - Records:Colléction Act of 1992
(44 USE 2107 Note)
~ NW 53217 6/20/17

 

—- i ereataeianetemmeneneratteterntamnnintetaaat Tiatateee tient os, 40a ec te niaetameeniaiedl

 

O a i
‘ . f4

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

ifn) on wis
MEMORANDUM POR THE RECORD

SUBJECT Conversation vetween AMWALL and
: at Gctober 1960 : on ry
7 i

 

  
 
  

 
 

cker back “while till asatgned to ireadquarcer's cab
request from AMWATL for 8 meeting th New .
‘ ‘ton aire

 
 
  

:

 

nr ed ab).the
yor ai CAMWALL, said. ‘that. he would. ‘be’ tn Eurepe from. apprexti-
mately 9 to 29 November’ and that” he would be seaing Vietcr
‘Raul HAYA ‘de :la-Torre-during -thisitnipsy We propesed a . at
-meating of Latin: “Americad: nan-Gonmuntat'terttet parties to de
+ organized by HAYA, “™is- proposal has, been presented. ne Heal-
_quarters.in BASH ~1314, wit Ae Ng Hans Ye ‘

pores re" “ye ai e 2

"3 On his’ return from Europe. 'AMWAIL imgeude ‘to spent

: about thirty cays overeeeing tne activities of threa of tne
. + FRD ocommittees;. Intelligance and Informatten, Transportation,

s... and one other. He Ie impattant with the progress of thase
2 4spes to do somathing to aczelerate ‘thelr :
activities > did not reveal the recently arranged close
coordination tesween ZAMKA and AMMAIL-3 on I and I activittes.)
Hégarding transportation, AMMAIL said that be had lined up a
PT .boat which he hopes to scalp for: mma ndo see e eat: agatnet

Cuban coastal attes, -

&,. AMMAIL« atateaents ssiceralon. the PRD and the MAF

may help ‘to clarify recent reporte that he nas been .on the
verge of deserting the former for tha latter, About two weeks
ago, or in mid-Ostober, AMMSAIL waa invited ty CHIBAS and
ESTEVEZ to. Join the MRP. AMAAIL does fee) that the MRP ts tn
" many ways more representative of the Cuban ¢:pulation than the

PRD, but he nevertheless turred down the tnvitation on the a
grounds that ne had been responsible for bringing a numter of a
‘people nto the FAD and that he sauld not new deaert them,

   
 

 

  

 

    

committees 89

    
   
  

      
104-10220-10400 me

a

. or re ire

 

“st . fue, |
fe w rea od ;*
er re a j
io ’ , ‘
3 .

 
 
  
  
 

of doing this, One would be conceding to the MAP. :
, perhapa three “seate on the Baecutive Committee, ” re
“while poastdly giving one to the: cAllanza, Another y :
would be for the three proupa.& “untte. under a naw'!s,..
\e+-probebly WIRO' Cardona-~-as. in
Either'way would be sil’.

inoe the MAP fa + 1 :
“ue are ‘Losing to it."

 
   
 

"the supreme ecordina
in the need te organ.

   
 

  

te
ed by ‘RuBIO Padtila and.
‘Now that th

      

group which wishes t6,
bed lend to their original
I .

    
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

th ‘Gonoerning. ‘sary, planntgg amare had this: ee ‘aay!
tyes is .

“" Ye in the’ PRD are in the “unfortunate position

‘of not knowtng the plana of either the CASTRO govern-.
mont or the United States government, We are sort of

i. 'Plying on instrusents,, |. but of one thing I am very.
-oure, Unless the United’ Stateshae’s number.of very i.
/ effeative penetrations. of the x beliarmy and the * |.
“militia, we must de prepared t @nd' in .an tnvading ©

can foros. of no less: than 5,000 nen ‘if we are to have, any.

: of success, ‘I’ ‘know that: heave sent fewer than

“ ESRe wen to the training caapa..'This force by itself
wii] not be eurfiotent to overthrow, ‘the CASTRO government.”

 

 

 
    
 

   

 

ar: oa Peaginistis as hie Yaat statement may soundy i AMWA IL
atill remains optintstia about the eventual outcome. aan feels
that even 1f nothing Xe done to speed the downfall of CASTRO,

eoncern, therefore, ta" that | the downfall take place much svoner
than that, Ae ne pute it, "President NIXON or President
KENNEDY sust not ba forced to: ‘have .Cuba’ on the agenda, when he
meets with, asthe ai sometime next 7

  

 

this will come about within, the next tenor twelve months. Als.

 

f
H
