74-0000

 

  

. . oe
purpoalve interpretation and a plan of action for deale _
ing with the facte in a revolutionary way. I learned —. -
“bie fi64 tua aade “and work Of Lenin and his Bolshevik.
Comrades who taught ue-that the truth coses from the

‘masees themselvea and that only dienater can result fron.

telling thea lies. I have.never learned to the contrary
that it was my revolutionary duty to work in any other
way although I soon found that the pregent day Communist
Party presse makes a practice of distingutehing between.

propaganda and truth.

Rxamplea of exaggeration and distortion most strik-

‘Ang to me were naturally those which applied to China,
‘ because here I could check allexations with known facte.

I first wrote these down to the ignorance or inoavacity
of ‘individuala. [ felt that Communist editors abroad
would publish accurate facts about China if they could
get. then. Accordingly with a friend I tried to set up.
an independent mail news service and gent weekly bulletins
to papers all over the world giving brief, sharp, factual’.
accounts of what wae going on. ‘This was in the fall of i

“1931 after my return from the area of the great Central

China floods of that summer. [ scarcely understood then
why thie service failed to secure any reaponse from the
Communist preea abroad. after about three monthe I had
to suspend it for lack of support. It simply didn't got
published except in a few organs which were not official }
Communist Party papers, including the New York Militans.}/
-It wasn't long before I began to perceivé, witha _
deeper etudy of international events and the history of
the Chinese Revolution, that a Consiatent thread ran:
through the distortiona and exaggerations which I. found
not only in brief casual. reports of-ourrent events but
in the solemn. pronunoctamentoes. made by délegates before
plenums of the E.0.0.1."{ discovered that these departures ©
from tho truth vere nado Necessary by the official premise

‘that ever eince the catastrophe of 1927 a mighty, upeurg=

ing Fevolutionary movement has been marching forvard in
China to the ‘very brink of seizure of power under the

‘ leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. I discovered

‘hat these exaggerations wers necessary because the pren-
lea-waé falee and along with it all the basic teneta of

the policies being pursued by tha Communist International |

and the Communist: Party in China. I cannot begin here to
give a summary of some of these distortions (which f
verbally cited to you by the dozen) ranging from partiou-
lar incidents (the. wilfully false picture given of the
cotton mill etrixe in. Shanghai in January, 19233, even to
the point cf transposing it to February to heighten the -
impression given of the workero' role in the Shanghai war)
to bigh flown generalisations like the statement reoently
made before the Plenum of the §.C.C.I. that the C.c.?. has
won over the majority of the Chinegss working class and

tbe peasantry. ;

_ ta denying the footual truth of thio premilae, whence
flowa the whole policy of the Communist Party in China, I:
deprecate not a whit the aagnificent militancy and courage
of Chinese workero, striking again and again and fighting

’ againet

 

 
74-0000

 

“by the yellow "labor lesders® and "mediators?

=g- .
1 4
against terrifio odds in defense of tholr very Lives;

nor the noroio struggles waged by peasants all over the
country; nor the fight of the Red Armies againet the .

‘Kuomintang, -I. morely respect the cold, indisputable fact} j

that these. struggles ‘are defensive, net offoneivo, that

“they are teolated, desperate and unorganised. With very

few exoeptions ~ a few emall otrikes here and there and
the larger exoaption of the Hed. army = they are without
organised revolutionary leadership. Moreover the dévelop=
ment. of. this leadership, the task of the C.P.; 16 ‘prodegd=
ing ata tragically Tetatded pace owing to the. falae
policies. and inept tactics of the party.

Tn denying: the presence ‘ofa mighty révolutionary
upsurge (i.@., & Vaat, organised march toward the. seizure
of power) I respect facta made ‘etill Clearer perhsps when
compared to the facta and figures of the monster mages move -
menta of the 1926-47 period. Thai tragic errore of the
Comauniot loaderahip in- 1927 wero: iprimarily reaponaible |
for the decapitation of that great movement and besausa
no leesons have been drawn from those eventa to this very.
day, these exrora, monstrously accumulated, aré atill re-
Sponsible for the tragediea of today, ,But for the purpose
of our comparison here, let ue for exanplo teke the single
fact that in 1926 in Greater Shanghai there were 357
strikes. [n 1932 there were 82. Let us Femember that
on the eve of the workers’ seigure of power in! Shanghat
in Mareh, 1927, there vere more than 800 ,000° torkors,
handiorafteen and petty traders out on the streets fight
ing with arma in hands for demande of a ‘farereaohing pos ,
litical character. A close oheck for the ebey sunt ne
in the latter half of 1933 abowed me that Teas than one -
thirtieth of that number were: engaged in strikes and other
disputes during any given month and that almoat invariably

-: the demands were defenaive- demands against wage outa and
- locKoute.

Moreover, the lack of cohesive ledderahip =:

often in departments of the samo. factory or in'onée or more
of:a group of factories = or even sometimes lack of avan

“ $ha. mos 6. ‘elementary organization + has in almost evory

case led to deadening failure and relatively. one betrayal
of the
“Kuomintang. ..In 1935" tha” shooting of thirteen studenta -
by Britian polide in ¢ ‘hanghai was the touch-off for a
general strike which paralyzed the oity and whioh vase
seconded by vast sympathy strikes which broke like a
series of tidal Waves over the entire country. In Janu=
ary, 1932, when the Japanese imperialiate used the Shanghai
International Settlement. as a base for opetationa which an
coset the lives of tens of thousands of chinese, not a
aingle strike. ‘interrupted the normal course of the pub-
lic or other avrvices in that settlement. In the factories
there were no strikes tut a large scale lockout to whioh
the overwheluing aajority of Shanghai's workers Submitted

without proteat.

The dogged, peraistent etrugsle carried on by Small
‘seotions of the rank and file workers in isolated instances
fn recent years is tribute to the magnificent fivre of

: Chinese

 

 
 

 

<2— |
our common dedication to the atruggle ayainet a regine
of bate and misery and oppreeston. In the end you for
foited. this claim by ceasing any longer to be in ay ayes ..
honest or-effective leaders of this atruggle.

Although you helped the “Yorum finanotally, the part
you played in building 1t up from tae day it started in
January, 1952, to the day of its last appearance in Janu-—
ary 1034, was insignificant. My repeated requests for
cooperation in mattera of circulation and material for.
publication went largely. unsatisfied throughout that tine.
. You never supplied me with the reporte Iso frequently .

and. urgently sought, pertioularly on trade unions, atrikze
‘atrugglee, the Red Armies, the Red dietilote, ete. Every
thing tho Forum did and became was the fruit of the work
of a tiny group of devoted collaborators (the most in-
portant of whom had no connection with you whatever) and
myself who had to depend almost entirely on “our orm re-
sources for everything we did and published, at every
erisie in the Forus's exietencs, when it was banned by
the French authorities in Shanghai at the very outset;
when it was bounded and persecutéd by the American and
Chinese authorities in the summer of 1933, when through
BYitien police pressure it was thrown out of every avail=-
“able printing ship in the city; when ths pseudo-Fascist
Blue Shirts again and again threstened the printing plant
whieh [ built up partially through personally contracted -
loans -= it was invariably through my own initiative, with
the help of the little Forum staff, that we pulled our.
eelvee up by the bootstraps every dime and carried on to
a point in January this’ year where the Forum waa flouriteb
ing and growing daily in circulation, prestige, amd in- .
- fluence despite the many formidable obstacles in ite way.
The formation of the Chink Forum Readere Association,
which in thé brief space of three months spread to aleven
eitiea in five provinces, developing into # mighty poten-
. tial -weapon ‘for the Yevolutionary movement, was the prod-
uct of spontaneous action on the part of the: Forum's |
Teaders, later sponsored and led by the paper itself.
All these were the Forum's own achievements, not youra.
By your arbitrary and criminal action you shattared thes
in the full stride of +t r grovth. Because to my bitter
disappointment. I had no OF could { secure the Fesources il
_ .%o- carry on ayself - owing largely to the difficult ‘condi- |
tions of work and the imposaibility ‘of wetting | revenue |
ftom the papex iteelf - all that had been achieved and ~

was to be aebleved was ground into the dust.

  
 

Il.

From almost the very beginning of ay active work -
which [ date from tha time I began reporting events in
‘China ina ‘Communist way ~ a number of questions presented
themselves to me in increasingly forcible form. Thesa i
’ arose originally from my discovery of the groas distor= i
tions and exaggerations which I found to be characteristic }
of Commnist propaganda in China and abroad. I define
propaganda as the skilful, clear, accurate and wholly

ne trushiul reporting of the facts linked to an incisive,

purposive

 
14-0000

 

1 \ . cOFY
: . C.C.P, congern=
ing the China Forus = :

o|
To the ) contra Committee of the Chinese Communist Party:

the two-year period of ny oxtra-organizational eole
laboration with the Chinese Comminist Party has come to.
and the China Forum whieh I founded and edited dur
at time has been forced to suspend ‘publication.: Tn

 
 
 

‘the: interest ‘of ‘our. whole movement ag well as in my per-
sonal intereet,; I coneider it necessary to record here ©
‘and publieh the hietory of thé Ohina Forum and. the cir

cumstances of ite suspension. You refuded me the oppor-
tunity, to lay the matter before the membership of the

" party even when I offered to do.so in your own organs and

not through the columns of the Forum. hen, wrongly, I

‘permitted the Forum to go doen in silence, you turned

around and in your organs and near organs in China and.
abroad you proceeded Bith the usual slandere of  botrayer®
and *counter-revolutionary®. In so doing you didn't have
the courage or the sisple honeaty to state that you pre=-

‘gented the Chifa Forun with an ultimatum and forced its

suspénéion betause in’ reply its editor raised. questions

“which are being placed before the whole movement today

| by the International Left Opposition. Nor did you etate
* that you deliberately Smashed the Forum for this reason

despite ay repeated. and extendéd offers to continue publi-
cation as before. on.a ‘gtraight anti-Kuomintang, anti-~
imperialist basie, leaving these various problems to ‘be
thrashed. out first privately among ourselves. In other
worda, you deliberately forced. suapension of the China .
Forum daspite the fact, on your. own admission, that ite
Joss vasa serious Dlo# ta’ the revolutionary movement in

~ China, that it mean’ the disappearance of an organ whieh

for two. vyeard: you had Gonéidered an extremely veliable
instrument in the. hands of the movement. Here, as in the
broader issues which léd to our diffsrences,. your blind
adherenoe to false policies was once ‘more demonatrative
of your Feadiness to placa your factional interesta above
the interests of she Chinese Revolution. :

In going baok éver the history of ths Fortin, T think

thé vicious character ef. your action becomea even more
‘evident when I start with the. fact that from beginning to/,

end I functioned not ae o member of the party but aa a-
willing eympathiger- who was prepared to throw all his
energiés into a job he saw he could do - edit and publish
an organ in Chins which could help mobilise the forces

of this country for struggle against the Kuomintang and
the imperialists by exposing the regime of terror and
privation which they have in common imposed upon the
maseee of the Chinese people. Permit me to recall at

tion for time or labor. You gave the Forum financial

aid but I mever received a dollar from you that was not
put into the paper. I refused your offers of cospensa~
tion and earned my living elsewhere. Your only. claim on
eo was my full~hearted loyalty to the Commun. had ideal and

— fd our

wt Abs

‘thie point that { never accepted any personal =|

 

 

 
 

 

 

  

 

DAILY WORKER .

BLO4.., gander
X ¥202- Kkera-

 

i Isaacs now says he no longer’

ae : 7 eN
sur camnmist aciivities Fitzy SQURCE
nate Get ABAIS? > 1 FiloNe.
- .
\ °
: , a
. eo
L .
\ :
1
H
' .
woe ; on . «has been reissued,
i Harold D. Issacs, Stanfoal Uni- partly to cash in on the Ahate-China
[versity Press. 382 ppt $5. racket, wi autly because any
4 a : * stick is useful -t ig: Business
; By ROBERT FRIEDMAN pce the liberation v= bound
i ie are spewin forth ‘asses. pana : :
: ese devs ati
ae .

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

loves
Ihas
ten
people cf the Far:
But’ typical of
easeling is Isaacs’

 

 

   
    

q
chiang Kaiss
i ° . A that he yas
+ One Book which deserves, even! a ean

ler the cynical ond opportunist before Chi.

  
 

: iy is Hard!
i Isaacs “Tragedy.-of the Chinese
» - ,Revolntion.®

 

   

he Ch

 

fiw ATT oa Te KAA 2 BEES

  

hifese people
business build:
unconcemed “by.

the, tragedy of

Trotsky, whose intratuction;
been dropped as a Mobility, Ins . .
istead, ‘he is an open defender ol; oa .
imperialist intervention against the’ .

  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 

 

 
 
 
 
  

   

ie

 

2c) WILL

 

 
 

 

 

-spéake of the China Forum. Since she was not in China at

. GLnoe you apparently gathered the contributora together

-and copies have been sentabroad but has not been pub
- ldened dn English aa fa¥.as-1 know. I do not know the

, “wALL be good enough to give, them this opportunity. .

-however, that my letter will enlighten you. and your
- ¥riends and enable you to appreciate the difficulties

China Forum ‘at ‘the. present time. Should such ocour, the
" Fesultant. publication would be of a Sonsiderably different:

. GORY: MKiS6 : Enclosure Ko. 1. , Ke

Cou? om ow . fo De: toh No. 3317
“40 “J asses stld ss

1 Ta Yong Yi Ping vung

Felping, Chima. : ote

re - -O0t. -S, 1934.

 

Mr. f. A. Blason

/136 Claremont Avenue - an : .
Mount Vernon, -N. Y._ aa .

 

Dear Mr. Blesont ,
I have seen the correspondence exchanged. between

~ ‘Mr... Olaas: and” yourself rogarding thé contributions you ——
; Collected for the China Forum. A draft for the sum in
. gall will be sent to you this week. .

I do not know in the name of whom or what wios Smedley |

the time the Forum Suspended, nor has she corresponded _
with mo..on the subject, I consider 1% necessary to place
“pefore: you and the other contributore an account of the

circumstances in which the Forum ceased publication.

in a meeting to hear what Miss: Smedley had to. eay, I
would appreciate it deeply if you would gather them once
‘mors to hear my account. The enclosed 13 a copy of a
lettex sent by me last May to the Chinese Communist Party.
It-has been published tn. China in a Chinese translation

names of the people who vere’ gocd enough to contribute:
to the Forum but their interest in the matter warrante
placing before them the atory of what happened to the
magazine. I trust, ous of a@imple fairtiess to me,. you

wy greatly ‘zegret ‘any. ‘Anocnveniencé’ i embarragomeat
to which you have been put in this matter. . I do hope,

which have arisen. “I know of‘ no- project to revive the

oharacter from the one'I edited, as sill be obvious fron:
the facta given in my letter to the C. P.. I think people”
who are interested in supporting the. revolutionary move-
ment here: should know these facta,

once again, I appreciate all the trouble you have
gone to in this matter.

Did you ever, incidentally, reocive the article:
®Fasciam in China® and the newsletter which [ mailed to

July 13 inet?
Youre sincerely,

enol, wo (Harold R. Isaacs)

(Copied by RD)

 

H)s AIT os Te yAa a ~ 38LhE EIA defb

1 mop D pt OS Ve

15/2 $e jig wis

 

 
 

 

 

 

     
   
  
  

This document is a permanent part’ of this file.

: af NincdED TE Fete r-aen
e a . “Whe éd In _

a, ; ; Baers

(dat

Review of 201 File on U.S. Cicizen

 

ta accordance with: the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,

T have reviewed. the 201. file on TSAACS (surname)
(201 number tndtcated below), and have determined that te can

° most accurately, -be categorized aa indicated — below:

“fo] should be closed.

   

: CJ witting collaborator. -O1 Code Al.

[ potential witting collaborator; date opened

or Code.A2. . . . _ :

c } ‘fornet victing collaborator (relationship términated).
or Code A3. . : obo.

i J potential. witting. collaborator Never contacted (securtey
Feasonsy: derogatory information). OL Code’ .A4, :

nt

‘couaterintelligence cape (i.e., {nvolving a foreign .-:
liige ce or a curity service). OI Code AS. 5

 

 

 

 

component)

  

éen entered into, ‘STAR.

 

   

‘1
{ :
ce fs
‘Signed, ie 297
. Gaterarsy— — Gate). . a i
ve Lo !

’

 

201- {S944

E2 IMppET

 

 
  

w
.

wenee  SEORET, ‘CL BY 054979
T= t- Ark ‘ :

 

 

 
      

 

   

MACLELAR Gach dpp ap Cc) cae Abuse es PY

     

. . Eg . ;
UOUST SLEICE CObeCtEhL OS ASSASSESALLOIS STARR HLIELES

        

 

     

FILE TUTLE/NUETT TD /VOLUEME : _LSAICS, MaviD _. SO
| Liget= Tete __-—

     
    

   

2.
ENCLUSIVE DATES:

 

   

 

“GUSTODIAL UNIT/ LOCATION:
Se "Rao: et
DELETIONS, TF ANY: YH/CD SEA DO CUMED

    
    

 

      
    

   
 
      
 

  

con: ; HATE 7 —anrere TUT H

PRINT NANE) RE EVLEWING OFFICIAL.

see

 

   

   

eee oe

   

hE COPTED OR REMOVED ERD THES FILE.

       
 

 
  

 

BOTOd STHL NI O3TS TVINaLYW.
 

 

 

  
 

 

: “eollection of records held by. Ray. Murphy during his

be classified to that file.

sper

ee

MEMORANDUM “FOR THE RECORD , . i ye oy ‘

ssn: Tray Records ‘of Ray ‘Murphy . ne

a

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

ig ‘The’ attached docunents” are part of. a large”

_ tenure as an official of the Department of State.
-He transferred all of his records to CIA upon his
retirement in the mid-1960's, ‘The. documents of that
collection which did’not mest the retention criteria
ot the DDO or the Office of Security were destroyed.
While those which were of utility have been retained
“and accessioned as appropriate to the DDO records
‘systen,

26 “the attached records concern
“Harold ISAACS —
“yho is the subject o 30 ~q18446 ~

 

Paul Hartni
C/CIRA/RS

    

“Attachne tc

ne er
a [-ReconD COPY | _
| = E2. IMPDET !

. aF a SECRET CL BY 006593 - i
 

 

i
of,

 

 

ge: ings a a . 9:9 Daan tenet

e _ SOURCE: NEY VAGSES, Now tore: Zity,

. setober 22, 1938 ~ Page 12

uadonts” ao CHRPEEES PAN PRAPARAS

By ilengu Chea

noue of them hea.

these people are

(tee. There’ ere. numerous anericon journalists of
éifferent political color and shades of opinion. who. ‘are
“sooperatiag” is thie. oy aita Jo paiése. imperialtea, but
: ‘whoever hes followed the writings of | rol’ Teaaoa, oo
Alexander Buchman, Freak Gleas ‘and Wilbur Burton in fhe
* Chino Presa, ‘Phe China ‘eekly fiovier, seta, - Paeific Affetre,
few International, ‘tas, reslizos thet these suerioaa ~
Trotekyiet jouraslists are: the wost vietous end siost dans
‘gorous of the whole ‘Lot of revotionary journalists,
dsasag vebind a barrage of Marxist parascology (which
yer. learned. to ‘manipulate with ‘paoslity),

cadrgetioally conduoting a ‘campatea af

liee against the Somaudiet” Interdationsh, ‘the: chinese

Comaunist Forty).

the soviet. Union, the chinese Soviets

end ‘the Chineas, ted aray, & eazpaies anion tae. to under

atne the ‘edar idedee. of the outside world in ‘the. éhitnese

— goVL es ovens nt and the Red army,

 

Lar oll haat.
gbb- LEVYS

Whe arr c) le XAAZ~ PHS

OY TILL

 

 

 
