ow

 

~

Fy oo ‘ “ “a . . woo
~ The Japanese Embassador said he informed his Gov'te about these

oh ’fhoulties as a protest against. the behavior of the Cuben Gov!
“mds he told. at the Diplomatic meetings ;

| About a week agp, there was a hunger strike at the Brazilian Sant

 

by the exiles there. However, they gave up as a gesture to onlr

obedience to the Enbassador. They protested against not reccivi

 

salvo conductos end other things.

= This caming week, Monday or Tuesday, the Diplomats again are cet’
together at a meeting to protest before the Cuban Gov't. about *
qo lax end purpose fekh designing ways of handling this affair, and
. ~ remind the Gov't. of their obligati ons’ ‘in extending the courtesy
iy according, International. agreement s+ >
je Carvajal asked me not to mention this, but later said that he
informed ug about Eubassador Quiros leaving Havena this Thursday
as he was being recalled by the Costa Rican Gov't. for cnsultati
“Carvajal will. be in charge | of the Embassy for the time, bot ssid
: . he ‘didn't expect the Bnbassador to ‘peturn as he ‘is teling 1 his fa:
: and house hold itemse : .
: He also told me _Sgain that Eduardo Oto, Gosta ‘Rican Consul ine

i Havene, was a ‘person not to ‘be trusted ‘by many experiences they

 

already “had with hime

— be wer Mantras Stews pos oo

 

cy

‘4 0 7AF Colles La PST 716 br Mpa
. - he E97 RED Cogy Tieeweh RL EM hoy een aap
7 . Hevlegel We pe eb Lhe CMS Pero Pe tte
ne ME CF Seis!

 

 

TD hove} hry Vey Gv hu?

parr ved do fant ha

| - | Yuna or Sa ~ / Utpage Bh wp aliapes a

 

po PRG IVE fer ROBIE Bet Em

: a . day Le
YO Dery betivela
¢

 
  
 

|
|

Gont!d.8---

i

a eee

1 eddies | abaneritetateat A OF A Ot ORIN me ne

 

owt

   

~

‘Enelos sed find the groups belonging to the Frente that was writte
for me by this Dre Fldeze .
“En¢élosed find(# ‘8 marked)"Reporte and “Informe"(2 sheets) Given me
Dre Fideze to. show what they are doing now.
Dr. D'dez. informed me of the following:

“(a)e A Commmist militant; Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane, 2°
__Meadow,: New York(Phones :1V-1~4368 and IV-6=4547). Ye is a
“Resident of. the U. S. for more than 20 yearse - Ha has his
, business,"Amorican Welding and Boiler Yorks Coe". This i:

man to" be watched as he even uses his business ‘as © front.

(o)s Mario Garcia, Miami Ventilated Avming Coos Ine. (work at):

. ‘presently’ asking Immigration permission to go to Guba and

considered’as one of Fidel Castro's heads here. with a gre:

"many ties.

-Ericlosed, find a break down of expenses of the Frente Intell. Offi
i. given me by. Dr. Fldeze, my asking him for same. Frank Aries is

helping the Dre bet funds for the maintenance of this office for
least another months rt think that this set up should be taken 1m
study. 0 oon mas ot ee ee a

August B16 a
Enclosed find marked #/9, 2 documents, given me by Emanuel Carvaje

} last night which are self-explanatory in Spanish. One is a list

exiles in their Costa Rican Embassy in Havana, and the other is o
éocument(copy) signed and given today to the Minister of Foreim
Relations of Cuba in Havana. It seems that there was very much
discussions concerning sane amongst the foreign diplomats in Cuba
The Egyptian Embassador(RAUsSyria, etc.) went to the first meetin
the diplomats had in Habane concerning the new monetary exchonses
Ee first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the
enclosed type document concerning the new $ exchange in Cuba. Tg
first meeting was held last Monday, Aug.l3th, and they met again :
‘a second time on Thurdéday in order to sigm. UHe(name not Imorm b:
Carvajal) then refused to sign and did not even ‘show up which ind:
ted to the remeinder of the diplomats that his money must have ber
exchanged in the full anount to keep him off the list of simature
The Swiss Charge D'Affairs informed at the same meeting, to the
Diplomats, that he received information from his Government that t
Swiss Gov't. was checking all present: Cuban bank accountants exist
in Switzerland and were readying themselves to act accordingly in
case the Cuban Gov't. should not reach any agreement in regards to

the ‘exchange with the Diplomats.
 

 

 

and

   

. . ~
' a “ ;

 

Cont 'd.8---4-ata anywaye JI let it go at thst to see the: ‘developments as it ver

| Ho ‘use to refute him again, However, when we parted, I aia nenti
him afein that he should not do so at rendon as I did not think 1
necessary nor what we had agreed upone Dre Fldeze aid say so 9s
iritroduced us to Despain as his Jefe(ch rief) and. wanted to show hi
loyalty at the same tine explaining to him that he wes cooperatin
with us in all ways possible against Gastro and Cormunism, which
plainly ‘seen that Despain didn't like at alle Despain sat silent
‘no questions asked, hard, eyeing us as if. waiting to see how far
FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr.
questions zi wanted to and only seid ‘that I would like to be in to
with him at all times. Enclosed you. will find photostatic copies
letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers of same. ¥
“told me to ask him how he got this information. Idid not feel th
‘should. have done so at the moment. However, Iwill be in touch ©
Dr. Fldeze again soon as I said I woulde I will not go to the of:
of this Intell. again.as I was elmost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe
! Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here.

turned my head. away, I think, in time. Dre Fdeze says that he ha

| of more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches hi

daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study.s He said th

“| wL12 get for me Cia files that the Frente has hidden and want to ;

with him. I feel, if Despain, is out of the way,. I could do much
Getting what is needed of them. JI do not feel safe with him arow

_ |Z may b& wrong, but that is the way I feel atm ut security vith h

I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies but feel tha!
a .

| of: the-files-can-be taken over for copy for the askingfy as Dr. FI.

| said he would cooperate to the fullest.

i Dre Jose Julio Fernandez: Office(9 to 11 A.I.):FR-1-5153

——---—. Homeffrom 8 Pole to 8 Aste) II=4=1853
Frente(from 11:30 Avil. to 1 P.lt.)s

; FR-4-2650-356-59

He nolds a: Frente Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratic

 

(FeReDe), Delegacion de: £1 Salvador(Rescate) and receives W200..0¢

 
13-00000

 

 

 

 

{activities here in
| Gentro Refugi ado,
l

a
a od

 

f

i . “

i| Auguat 19/61 ) pesoaet) °
Frmk 4rias has Given me the following information (alee? desp 4 )

Cap ‘thin(Lieutenant, known: foment as) Ernesto Despain, head of t
Frente Intelligence Service at 14th Lane, Hiemi, with, ontranc
in back of building at isth Street, off Brickell Ave., worked for’
with Ceferino Alvarez(G=2, known as) in Government Insurance(Segu:
Gobierno) | ad formerly in the now non-existent BANSECO(branch of”
National Bank of Guba). Josefina Socarras worked with them also :
Seguro del Gobierno « Ihave written of Josefina before through !
findings of Frank, who kmew them all in Cuba(not Despain directly;
only his femily). This Captain Despain is an intimate friend of r
Ceferino and Josefina(planning to go to New York soon). She has t
trying to get mothing started here, as reported before. It is
strongly urged thrt this Josefina be ‘surveilled constantly as I,
Jas well as Frank, think that she is affiliaged with Castro's eland

he States. She received monthly checks from +)

   
  

Cap tain Despain is planning on going to join t:
|U. S. Army. “He 1s definitely strongly suspected of giving everyth:

 

of ‘Intelligence to Castro and is tied in with the Cormunist and Ca:
‘|| groups heres He may even soon plan to disappear from the scene -and
should’ not be allowed to get off easily. He has been kseping Dre

Jose Julio Fernandez from organizing his anti-Castro and Anti-Coi
‘files due to lack of funds(says Despain). It seems thatrhis was jv.
an excuse before and was done to kcep the ball functioning as.shoul.
be. -I think that this Dr. Jose - Julio Fernandez is very sincere a:
is innocehtly giving everything into the hands of Despain without

| knowing. How Despain got into this position is not Imown by us yet.

| As far as we are concerned he is a Castro penetration into the Frent
| a nada
|

and Ue Se activities.

 

The’ above is the, result of being gent to see Dre Jose Julio Fornandr
head of Intebligence Seryenee of the Frente(as told us by Foracr

Cuban Gri. Socallanes, friend of Frank}x I went with Frank to try t
find out abo ut a woman whose Egnione of two of them) had taken datn
anda: pictures. for Castro of al military end naval installations in t°

State of Florida.

Sen on ne Sun oem te ar ee
an ne
) Dee Gble gewed phn Pere /

Enclosed find an approximate list of expenses ae( |

Gave m for consideration. However, he would like to talk it over

  
   

[jas to the rest of -his stay in the U. S._

 

enclosed a note he asked to have sent over,"La Voz a

 

Tas Americas"(onda corta-~h ort wave). This is supposed to be some
|| sort of signal to his 0. Pe GC. group in Guba to get behind end

H cooperate with information and sabotage. wae nen ne

I did mt talk to him as yet since I am awaiting word from you as ¢

 

‘this Monday's meetings with him.-----

August 19/62 , ;
Jacinto Luzarrage, a friend from Cuba end former sugar mill ovner,

and father-in-law of Lino Fernandez (MRR, now in jail at the Isle ~«

 

Pines), told me that Dr (soth of Noviembr

 

Movimiento ) was, taken to jail after returning to Cuba from Hiemi +
if. Yast. time here», and not. es yet released.e Jacinto arrived here wit
- his wife ana 3 Grandchildren about 5 days agoe He was formerly a
‘member of the famous old Cuban ABC Groupe It should be renenbe:
that pr[ _|receivea training in S/il, his last trip here.-~---

August 19/61 _
Ben Volpe, now working at Holiday Tours, Biscayne Blvde, Miami, t-

me that his father; having come from Cuba a few days ago, told hir
| that Federico Glaramont, 1100 loth St., Miami Beach(living close ©
4 them), is a susp ected member of Castro's G~2 and known as such si:
being in Guba. He arrived in th Ue Se, Miami, as a political ex
| which is a cover for his true mission here, and statuse-----=

. |) august 19/61
' Jacinto Luzarraga and his relative told me that it is being rwnor

that since only men are taken to Opa Locka by Immigration for 48
Fidel Castro is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his
“ elendestine operations here, between here and Cuba. I also heard
| > .. | rumored that some of these agents are sent to tie in with Communi
: in the U. &., various regions of the U. S. I have no other info.

| this as could not find out more since it was told to me as a runic

ae ' t
«Fe August _19/61_*.
| : | ‘|to1a me that he gets information from his uncle

 

 

Guillermo Rojas, a-long time Cuban Communist who is presontly wo:
poo in the Imprenta Nacional at Havanae Ke helped(supposed to be one

oared Seeiaes A

   
 

04-1008-10044]

 

 

 

z(

. ' ™,
> [°
SECRET

a

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: AMBRUSE Organization

1. Description: °

Job # 63-345/6
File # 19-5-6
Dated included: Apr 61 - Jan 62.

Volumes: 1

Revolutionary Council Anti-Castro Security and

Counter-Intelligence Team,

2. Findings:

No findings in relatimto the terms of reference.

Of possible interest: A document dated 19 August

1961 source: AMPAL-1, hand carried to Hqs. from WAVE

in August 1961, The document mentions "Cuban Communist

penetration agents in all branches of importance of the

U.S. Government" ... Mentions a possible "Castro

penetration into the Frente (FRB ~ Revolutionary

Democratic Front) and U.S. activities".

3. Other Agencies with Knowledge of this Activity:

Apparently, none.

es: c

oz £ CDH comment: Check out Eugenio MARTINE® again,

(SDIPSTREAM-12 said in 1976 that one Eugenio MARTINEZ was working

for the Cubans. A Eugenio MARTINEZ was involved in the Watergate;

a former JMWAVE Station agent.7
13-00000

oy ad od

 
    
    
 

the moin) organize the library of the ‘Communist throughout Cuba
.,nds uncla told him thet Kruschev promifised Fidel Castro that he -
have missles in Cuba(this was a few months ago). Also, his unc?

that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fide? ;

 

“Gastro, and they have already plenty of agents bel nging to the
Communists in all branches of importance of the U. Se Gov'te, a
even in*the CIA. He said that all people in Cuba that worked vi
ap -

, the CIA were picked up through their agents and those presently

 

working with seme are being watched closely. told me thi

 

a sort” of sixth’ sense, as he ‘calls Lbernnneee oo a aoe Tone

= -@ |} august. 19/6 a
pO ~Bart told me last week that Juez Gerceran was the one that sent -

| letter you’ “received to Carlos: Prio as. “he recognized the handvrit
on both envelopes. The above judge bold Bart that some have bee:
given Salvo. ‘Conductos to Mexico and ‘that ‘the Italian Embassy is

.” | emptying out sane. This Judge is the one that made the list of

 

| people held up in the Italian Embassy, that you received from Bar
[-Bart told me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco(NDC), that I «

 

in touchsvith is getting aid from ‘someone from tho Ue Se Govite <
Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his hore anc
Bave him $5,000.00 in U. 8. Dollars(monéy) to send through the Po
to Cuba to be given to her brother dorm there. She didn't want t
eo disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and
‘only said that it was from his group (HDC) heres Bert thinks that

| this is not true. He sent the money: down already.

cme nartte see teme memantine comm otet
. 4

sent to , Oscar Diaz from former F.Castro Press Urrutia and from a

Macaroni that Bart kno ws. It is self explanatory in Spanish and
Bart says that he knows that the air strips shown on enclosed map
are truely in existence. Part’ received these photostatic copies :
to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldntt tr
this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver sere in «
hour of the time I visited hime However, I suggested his trying ¢
stand by when the letter was opened. Oscar Diag liked Part!s ides

‘maki hotostatic copies of sme and Bert asked for one for hime
ma nS, phote path pi SMe, g oeeR J

 
  

Sl al cael col al oll oak eee atte Td
13-00000

 

awd

 

o : ‘ P

   

\- it seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intell.Serv:
of sthe Frente due to lack of funds, sty s Dre Fideze Hovever, di:
having tried to find out whether this Captain Dospain was Ernest

 

we were not. suree Having been introduced upon our 2nd- visit las ;
F Friday», 9:30 A. He(first visit was 2 days previously at 9:50 Ae!!
we were presented to. Ernesto Despain, the person we were looking.
so nie tine ‘fo w(due to"his relations with Geferino Alvarez(G=2) on:
‘Josefina Socarras(Ceferino's girl friend, of vhom I have been wri
| abo ut for ome time now). We started to get places,ywith all fu’
cooperation,the first-time there as we gooke only to Dr. Fideze -
second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not fo
many details. Dry Fidez. told us that Despain Was planning on s~
hin. wth a delegation to Puerto Rico. I feel, as well as Frank,
this Dre Fidez. (around 60 yrs. old) is a person that could very «
~ organize his. office to be of very valuable service against Castro

- his Commmists here in the States, as well as in Latin America wh

 

_they el ready have. their, own agents operating. it is felt that De
is trying to get Dr. Fldez. out of the way because he recognizes °

 

importance of the planned Intelligence ‘Service the Frente » throu:
Fldeze, sam which could produce a very strong arm against Gastro.

Dr. Fideze says that they ere: now working on the ABC form as used
against | a former president of Cuba known as Machado. Enclosed is
‘an id idea of how this group functions and are placed into many walke

Life of importance to this causes. Their work is mainly of Intell
Service and in a form of cooperatt: ng with the U.S.Gov'te in all wes
possible wittout trying to get monies, if-possible, to function. 2
presently trying to Get ‘donations to” $300.00 to keep his office fo"
for a month. ‘Upstairs an the seme building, they have radio opera’
(very well. experienced) continuously monitoring all phases of impo

ance in Cuba( sugar mills, etc.)» Frank Asked Despain if the file °

had in his hands was for use Despain was caught a little off bounds
as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the fil
showing data on boats, but taking creat pains to keep us from secin

‘the contents. I didn't went to press the point arousing ony suspic.
- Dre Fideze introduced me as a Joe Anderson, FBI mane I had former]

cautioned | him against, referring to me as anything Special, whieh ho

pee eee me ee eee
intel ta <-

po | |
