 

The Fresident of the United States of America, Jonn ¥ Kennedy was

assassinated by Lee H Oswald by direct order of the governnent of
the Peoples Republic of China. Lee H Oswald executed the act alone
but there was helpers and reserv. "Now all is over" was password

to his customers, Oswald wasa fully convinced Cormunist but he

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China,
Later he was spy for us. When Lee if Oswald had returned fo USA we
coubacted hin anew sod fresheaed up his ming “you have veea & Spy
for us" and told him what could happen to him if FBI got informed.
Now we had him. He got his last information in Mexico. /It was not
good to assassinate Kennedy in kexico/ "Fair Play for Cuba" was
started only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro for the as-
ssassinateé. Our government thought that USA should atteck Cuba
when Xennedy-was-murded as the orginaztion was~behind the: assassin=~
ation. Yhen Cuba was attaczxed by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend:
himself, It that was so it would burden. Sowiet.that..0swald:had.visi-
ted. Ye should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for A-
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win this war and whole the world should be Communistic. Then we should
assassinate Xrustjev and other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader

of the NEW WON. When this letter will reach you they have maked

away with me and 811 that knowed the planes. This letter is outsmuggled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is a:ghinese spy~shool,.

“My name is Ryo Liang Yiian. Officer in the department. for State~secret.

 

 

re rer ete sterner tnteen cA ACERT rt pate cee nee | amit ant en

If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to USA.

 
 

 

 

  
    
  

   
   
    
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

on PY .
l ~~ en be
2 il re nes 3) ee :
1 een OCP Ppa
ee ee ;
i
l American Embassy ;
Strandvagen 101 :
l SPOCK HOLM No :
MAMIE RGOM . ¢ j
1 SIOCKUOLM

 
‘DB Memo $6585 - Page 2

ad. The letter. ws.,osted frog the.Stockhols Fan post office,...
which is Located in the centrel railvey terainal in Steckhols.
All mail deposited in etreet mail toxes in this area or in the post
. office would be processed tarough this station.

e. The cancellation cachet on tne enveloje fg identical in
all respects (format, postmark, number style and length of killer
bars) to exemplars available in cur office.

f£. The postage is correct for Svedish ioternal mail and the
postage stamp is of current issue.

& A possible irregulerity is the time lag tetvween the internal
date of the letter, the date of the postmark and tne date of receipt
in the American Kabaasy. The total time from the internal date of
the letter to the tins of receipt is eight days, tae time between
the date of posting and the date of recei;t is more than three days.
This trensit tims of more than three days for intra-city mail appears
irregular when compared with the average transit tine of only two-.
three days for arrival between Stockhols end the United States.

3. The text of the letter warrants some comments because a musber
of peculiarities were noted - aside from jure spelling or typing errors -
which seem to indicate a Svedish writer. Tho following words represent

‘either Swedish spelling or modification: "reserv”, “etabiiened”, “murded", -

“Krustjev'. Other examples of Svedish grammar and syntax would be:
“mst” (as past tense), ‘in Soviet” (Svediah form but pot spelling),
“ne wae spy” (without indefinite article), "FBI, USA" (vithout definite
article), “should” (rather than “would"), "“outsmuggled” (Svedish past
participle form); and-"wnole the world” ~(pure Swedish fora}.

4. Another significant detail is the name gives, “Ryo Liang Yuan”.
“Ryo” is not # standard spelling in any known Romanization system used
for Chinese. “R" is seen in the new Chinese Communist cational system,
but never in combination with "yo". "Ryo" is a Japanese spelling. In
the name given it is not known whether the Chinese or Western presen-
tation is used, in other vords, whether “Ryo” or “Yuan” is meant to be
the surname. Among Chiness syllables which could be represented by the
Japaneos “Ryo” are Lieo, Liang and lang. Of these Lung (1C:7093) and
Ifang (1C:2733) ere used as surnames. In either case, “Ryo” is hardly
@ name by which a res] Chinese would identify himself.

5. Io mouary, end based on the above informations, 1t is concluded
that the letter was tranamitted via normal Svedish postal channels. the
letter is probably a “crank letter", most likely writtes by a Swede,
using eo Bwedish-keyboard typevriter and Swedish stationery.

 
 

‘Trostonieto1a3 eens cinmeeaesntrrnnenetinnntcnmantinemer net serena oe

 

 

 

 

DB MEMO 76585
3 January 1964
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, wz/2
ATTENTION: [ |
GUBJECCT: Technical Analysis of Letter end Envelope -
DB CABE 94361
REFERENCE: Wh/2 Memo dated 13 December 1963

1. In response to referenced request, an original typevritten
letter and envelope addressed to the American Eubassy, Stockbols,
were examined in order to determine the origin of the letter and the
nationality of the vriter.

2. The following ccnclusions were draw concerning the letter
and envelope:

a. The typewriter in question is equipped with an obsolete
style of German-made type which, according to our references, was
fitted on s numter of typewriters made in Germany during the 1920s
a and early 1930s. The possible mekes would be Stoewer, Torzedo, 2
! Mercedes, Rheinwetall, Urania, Orga, Fortuna, Continental, Kappel, \
i Crome, Trdwaph, Merz and ;ossibly ecme others.- Of these-~-makes, -
the Torpedo, Mercedes, Rheinmetell | and Triumph were probatly the
most widely distributed.

b. The machine in quastion is equipped with a black and red
ritton. The keyboard is very probably Swedish, as shown by two
otrike-overs: umlaut-u for hyphen and "z" for “a”. ‘These
characters are adjacent on the standard Swedish keyboard, but sot

- on the German. ‘the umlautea was not used in the street address,

tos . "Strendvagen"” (where the dots should have been placed over the
second a"). This might bs either a simple oversight or an attempt
te conceal the writer's familiarity with the correct spelling.

ec. The paper of the letter is of the international standard

(DIN) size "AL" which is almost universally used in Bweden. The :

: linen-textured stationery seems to be rather comaon in Sweden. '

i : The two smaller pieces of blank paper match the letter paper with

i respsct to width, thickness, color, texture and loak-through, snd : :

, ‘were probably cut from another sheet of the same type. ‘The envelope vt

' Matches spocimens of Svadish envelopes taken from a DB/:~Postal.
Intelligence files.

 

 
x

DB Memo $6585 - Fage 3

6. For further informetion concerning the typewriter and payer
anelyees, and the Svedish style of langusge usage, contact Mr. Jaa
Beck on x2009. For further information on the spsliing of tha
ostensible writer's name, you may contact Mr. Cerald Worth on x2608.
For further information regarding the Postal aspects of this case,
please contact Nr. Robert H. Banks on x2303-

J. The originel letter and envelope are being returved herewith.

 

Chief, T0755

Attachment: (2)
As stated

Bistritaution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

~ TSD/GARB/A&R
mt - ‘rsp/DB/3
1 - DB files :

il - PI chrono
1 - Case 4261
tsp /DB/5-PI /RiBanks/x2303/ery
4

   

 

“ete sare

 

 
14-00000

sosengeas ae :
! .

1. a

 

per SERRE = LON Ron

 

13 peo 1963 _

MEMORANDUM FOR: TSD/03/5

SUBJECT: Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope

1. Attached is a letter mailed to the Anerican Embassy in
Stockholm purportedly from-an officer in the Chinese Communist
Embassy in Stockholm. Also included is the envelope and a >lain
folded sheet of ‘paper which presumaoly was used to envold tne
letter within the envelorpe.. Please perform a technical analysis’
of these attachments to determine shatever can be deterzined
concerning the origin of the parer, envelope, typewriter, and
inx used. If you have any capability for comparing this letter
with other correspondence orisinating with the Chinese Co:ccunist
Embassy in Stockholm, we would lixe your opinion on whether or
not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the tyre
normally used by that Embassy.

2. Because of the sensational nature of the contents of
the letter and the necessity for our checking out such alleza-
tions as quickly and thoroughly as possible, it is requested
that this technical analysia be undertaken on a priority basis
and that the undersigned by notified by phone @B 600N #6 any |
conclusions are reached. .

3. Please acknowledge the receipt of the attached letter
and ensure that its whereabouts, when in your custody, is a
matter of record. We prefer.that the letter and envelope oe
kept as intact as possible while undergoing technical analysis.

 

 

“+ reo

 

wWe/2 x 7659

ue

 

  
