[toe-torr-tonza :

a * . . °

 

 

20 Mey 1960

NEMORANIUM FOR: Chief, Covert Action Steff
SUBIECT : Bévard G. Tichborn (P)

Xe On 11 May I contacted TMichborn (P) in Los Angeles. Following
. the suggestion that Mr. Collins had made, I queried him as to his

° availability to work with some of our Cubens. I pointed ovt to hin
that there was a Cuban goverrmment in exile forming and that we wera -
trying to keep tabs on it amd hoped to be able to steer it along —
Lines which we thought to be in the best interest to the United
States. In thia connection I safd that we hed a North American.
who vas more or less handling the operation and trying to guide then
as best ha could, hovever, we felt that it might be highly desirable
to interject him Into the picture because of his background and
language capability. I went cn to point out to him that it was
obviously an extremely dirficult task to get the Castro opposition
to agree to one coordinated program, etc. I told-hin that it was
our hepe that if a government in exile were formed, it would include
all segnents of the Castro oprosition and that we were pulling -
strings to see to it that it was not formed in the United States, I
told TMehborn (P) thst we did not envisage that he would have to work
permanently with this group but rather that he would be available
from time to time to discuss with then and to act as an auditor of
their probleas a3 wall as-a mentor in their operation, ete.

2. Tichborn (P) said that he would be very gled to do this for
us snd thought he would be able to find the tima. The only question
that arcze in his mird was the fact that he will soon be actively
engaged in the Menocratic campaign, perhaps on a full time basis.

This obviously raises a security problem as if it were to become known

’, that He vere working with the Castre opposition, it might reflect
unfavorable on whoever he was supporting politically in this country.
It was left that he would give some serious thought toe this problem
and let me know as soon as he made up his sind definitely one way or
the other whether he would be willing and available to work with the
government in exile on a spot basis from time to time.

Gates

Chief
Political Action Division

 

 
