13-00000 inv er eee

ne
ar ° . a

- SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents

 

 

 

(ms public acknowledgment of a station in[__—ijand might wt)
to :

engage in harassment/sabotage/terrorist actiona in ji

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

show its displeasure. If the Government should ask that |
| our atation be closed, the U.8. Government would lose a |
capability to collect on stability, and ;
Islamic extremiam. (8) i
10. Public acknowledgment of a station in would be a
problem for[ | via-a-vis its Islamic fundamentalist
population. like so many countries with a majority

 

 

 

 

Muslim population, has a growing Islamic fundamentalist problem,
and Islamic fundamentalists are frequently opposed to the U.s. in
general and the ency in particular. Public acknowledgment of a
station in could cause ita Islamic fundamentalist
‘population to react negatively and demand that our station be
closed. If the station were closed, the U.8. Government would }
lose intelligence on the[l i (Cd Gn Flict, \\
stability and Islamic extremism. (8) :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   
   
   

operational capability and national security, I would feel
compelled to seek a reversal of any decision to make a publics
acknowledgment. In those cases where I indicate "no specific or
additional damage", I am prepared to accept your decision yet I
muat call your attention to the general damage done to us by any
disclosure cof operational presence. Our operational capabilities
are in direct proportion to the confidence placed in our ability
to protect source identities and operational methoda. Disclosure
to the public of our presence weakens this confidence. (S)

\
11. In those instances where I have indicated damage to r
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET
13-00000 awe we ee =e

° - SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents

 

 

 

 

 

 

(8) —— :

4, Within the context of our European presence, I have the
following comments:

 

 

; ~ Public acknowledgment would force the
government and liaison service to pay cleser attention to
Station operations and therefore present a threat to ongoing
sensitive operations. (S) \

 

 

 

- A neutral country. Public acknowledgment
of a CIA atation would embarrass the government and liaison;
thereby inhibiting the close and productive liaison
relationships we now. enjoy as well as presenting a threat to
ongoing sensitive operations. (8) \

 

 

 

Paris - No additional damage. (8)
Bonn - No specific damage. (5S) ‘ \
Berlin - No specific damage. (8)

~ Public acknowledgmant would embarrass the
governmant and inhibit liaiaon cooperation; thus endangering
ongoing operations. (5S) ,

[de Public acknowledgment would draw questions
from the press and create political problema for the
govarnment and liaison. This would endanger the

continuation of sengitive joint operations. (S) _)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SSS teense een

ae a

——s

 

 

 
 

 

rodsogz0taag] 7
ie ; . SECRE'T poo 25-3057

~ 7] fue 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, JFK Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: David Cohen
Deputy Director fer Operations

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents

1. I understand the JFK AARB is presently considering the
releasa of documenta which would identify CIA stations to the
public. I am opposed in general to revealing the locations of
our atations and would prefer instead to substitute the station
name with a regional designation, e.g. European Station vice
Brussels. I would be willing, however, to open certain stations
during a specific window of time if they are substantively
relevant to the assassination investigation and provided that the
documents in question are sanitized! to (fo conceal the permanent

| presence of the station? (8) ~

f —

fe 2. In all but a handful of instances, public acknowledgment
of a station would be a political embarrassment to the host
government and would threaten ongoing senaitive operations and
liaison relationships. In a few instances, the damage probably
would be minimal or net at all as long as the presence appears to
be temporary. I have surveyed the involved components and
determined the damage to national security which would follow
such release. (8)

 

' 3. IL strongly urge that you not allow the information
: regarding the Congo and to be released. The[__] is now |
Zaire and the station in the 60's would have been in
Leopoldville, now Kinshasa |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ch BY} (0695930 j

CL REABON? 1/5 (C)
DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM LOC 3-82

SECRET

 
13-00000 any ee ee tees

«
‘oe

. SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents
a

 

   

 

(~ |- Public acknowledgment would draw questions from

 

the press and threaten very productive and vary sensitive
engoing joint operations. (8)

- Public acknowledgment would draw prasa
attention and embarrassing questions for the government and
liaison service. This would further damage an already

delicate liaison relationship which is vital te us for |
counterterrorism operations. (9S)

. le wore Al Public acknowledgment \
woul @ po cally embarrassing for the government and ;

liaison services. This would likely endanger any
continuation of joint operations. (S)

- A Public acknowledgment
would create political problems for the government and
liaison service and force greater attention to our

operations. This would create an intensive
counterintelligence atmosphere for our operations; likely to

Cause a decrease in our operations. (8)
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

London - No specific damage. (Ss)

 

Ottawa ~ No specific damage. (8)

 

i
5. Our Eastern European stations pose a unique problem when I
we considar public exposure. Station is recovering from '
operating for almost fifty years in an undeclared status. During }
the last three years we have managed, with much effort, to begin
the establishment of good working relations with the host ;
government and internal/external services. As a reault, the /
station has recently begun some very sensitive and high-level |
bilateral operations. These obviously depend upon the good will '
| of the host service. The citizenry came of age in an
atmosphere in which distrust oF intelligence services in general, {
and the CIA in particular, was thoroughly ingrained. That |!
diatrust lingers in the public's mind even today. Exposure of — \\
our station's previously undisclosed presence and operational \\
\ suze during the Cold War will necessarily raise questions {|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about our activities then, and almost certainly lead to further ;

 

 

 

 

 

3

BECRET
13-00000

  

'

 

 

 

 

wy ee we mee

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents

 

 

 

 

relationship, and certainly our very sensitive operations, could
withstand the resulting public debate. The existence of
Station, past and present, cannot be surfaced at this time
without serious damage to national security. (S)

 

 

 

 

6. Public acknowledgment of our stations in Managua,
Ban Jose, Panama City, San Salvador, Santo Domingo, Buenos Aires,
Lima, Santiago, and Montevideo would not further damage our
operational capabilities in a specific sense. Overall, any
xvelease of information about_a clandestine service breeds
istruat in professionalism |
(s)

 

 

 

 

7. We receive significant national colleation systema
support from which affects national system collection
efforte against Tier IA targets throughout Asia. We would
jeopardize this by raleasing the presence of our station to the

 

 

 

 

 

' public. is a special case in that there is continuing

disagreement regarding our station. We should not complicate the
current "Spy Mania" atmosphere in There have been two
incidents regarding our presence in during the present
year. Any further disclosure would exacerbate the tension and
create an untenable operational atmosphere for otir station and
personnal. (8)

 

 

8. Public acknowledgment of a satation in would be a
problem for the U.S. Government. U.S. and{ | foreign
xelations are always delicate; the. Government is very
sensitive to parceived slights to its national sovereignty, and
public acknowledgment of a station would prove embarrassing to
the Government which in turn could aak that the station be
closed. If the station were closed or significantly downsized,
it would affect a large number of important intelligenca
collection operations. (8)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. Public acknowledgment of a station inl] would be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a preblem for vis-a-vis its neighbor. and
share a border which means the Government must
act with some prudence regarding its relations with ~The .

\C—_Bevernnent would almost certainly respond very nagatively .

 

 

 

—

SECRET

[a ~ “Tl
4
inquiry about our present relationship. It is doubtful that ou \

 

 

 
