14-00000

summnmcroniene BA te Ge
Off 6. Memora, dun e “UNITED STAT. . 5 GOVERNMENT

axe) 2 ” Pile a . Tt, . a - DATE: 7  Fotcuay 1982.
FROM : Morse Allen

SUBJECT: . Kelly Case

   

 

On Wednesday, 30 Jarmary 1952, at 9:30 AM, the writer called
Mr. relative the Kelly case. [__{statea that the OPC
official and interpreter had made 4 trip to Boston and had seen Cladych.

stated that Gladych and the interpreter had reached comlata
accord on the handling of the Kelly situation. than stated
that he was trying to arrange that the Kelly case could be linsd up
completely bef: he set up conferences with I & SO relative the trip
to a Promised | to call the writer at the end of the
week.

   
   
  
 
  

     

Re “on/rebruary 1952. a AM, called the writer
relative the Kelly case. stated that in OPC at ths top: level,

some opposition had arisen to the handling of..tha Kelly case in the .
manner that had basn proposed.[ (“stated that since this opposition
of tha higher-ups had arisen, nothing would be dons relative the Kelly
case. stated that he would call immediately nw
Gevelopments along these lines. The writer informe hat.

I & SO would be glad to consider the matter and would wait until it

was brought up again and would avait his call relative any new dex
velopnents.

 

    
14-00000

sd pe ty

a . ay ne bel one peas
" peodea rome ne os : “C. ee : Te. ot Cc.

 

i “Office Memorandum ‘UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT |

a F

2 SUBJECT:

 

- FROM ¢_

“Kenay Casa : .

 

“Morse Allen . (oh toe te ae

 

On Friday, 25 Janvary 1952, the writer was called to the office

 

- ° of Mr. Bannerman for the purposs of a conference with one wf TS a
: | B6/0PG concerning the instant case. = a.

    

 

es explained in substance the » Kelly ¢ casa as follows: |
@ Peal name is Dimitrov), is a 29-year-old Bulgarian and

was the head of a small political party based in Greece and ostensively |
working for Bulgarian independance. Kelly was deseribed i nn ae
...' as being young, ambitious, bright (elementary collega education), a Lo
. =» gort of a "man-on-a-horse” typs bat a typical Balkan politician. dAc-  ..-
- eording to Prichatt, our people discovered that French Intelligence ..
> Service Wie@ attempting to bribe Kelly and maka hima double agent and -

Kelly was looking with faver upon the French offers. areas ac 2 wt 7

|". plot was rigged in which Kelly was told he was going to be

and as a "protection", he was placed in custody ofthe Gree Polica

"" who threw Kelly into a Gresk prison. Kelly was held in tha Greek pri-~

: os gon Zor six months until the Greek authorities decided that Kelly was .
. . & nuisance and they told our people to take him back. Since our -

 

  

-, pedple were unable to dispose of Kelly in Greace, they flew him to
_ Panama where, through arrangement, he was placed in a U.S. Military -
. Hospital as a psychopathic patient. Kelly new has been in the U.S.

military hospital for several months and the hospital authorities now

. ‘want to get him out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering |
Sty other patients, . ete, ; Belly ‘is not a psychopathic personality. be.

 

 

7 explained that they can dispose of Kelly by. the simple
3

process ending him to a friend of his in Caracas, Venezuela, and .
' as far as they are concerned, that type of disposal is perfectly o.k.

aa However, bacause of his confinement in a Greek prison and his stay in

a military hospital, Kelly has become very hostile toward the United

States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, OPC is
~-eonsidsring an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see if it would be

possible to re-orient Kelly favorably toward us. This operation, which
will, necessarily involve the use of drags is being considered by OPC
with a possibility that Dr. Ecke and Mike Gladych will carry out the.
operation presumably at the military hespital in Panamaa Also in- ~~

' volved in this would be a Bulgarian interpreter who is a consultant
to this Agency since neither Ecks nor Gladyen spealc Bulgarian. .

Mr. Bannerman pointed ont tol that this type of operation

could only be carried out with the authorization of Zecurity and that,
“under no circumstances whatscever, could anyons but an authorized M.D.

administer drugs to any subject of this Agency of any type. Bannerzan
pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military
“would have to be co-ordinated into the and would possibly .

 

 

this
authorities w not pernit their hospital +o be used for/tzpe of work
and also that 9 re-conditioning operation this type m might take as. -
long as 30-602 Bannarman further pointed out that some if sich —

> RG

operation were carried on, Security w ‘haye to be cognizant of it,

 

 

take over.and run the operation themselves since this type of Work

_ is one SA which Security handles f~ Ch Azam +

_ Lind out whether the Army would permit. such an operation and whether mee
".".. the Army would allow the Agency to have the usa of the necessary rooms,

'. amd the Bulgarian interpreter return from Boston and their talk with =~
>; Mixes Gladych.- At which time, the angles would be explored and a dis- . _
° patch

 

; st was ‘agreed. betwsen( ———y Bannerman,- and the writer that a:
conference would be leid o afternoon whan OPC representatives

xwceregz would be forvardad to our peopls in Panama directing. then ta

  

medical, facilitias, etd. as would be required for this type of operation.

_ At this tine, it was also to ba determined. whether the disposal ¢ of E Kelly Tr.

. 2 Nepemnela c could in fact be Laid one

“0 Comments

~ ‘in this’ case is not known to the writer, the writer believes the approach

. - writer by Mr. Walter Driscoll approximately thirty days ago on an i
formal. basis bat no significant details were given ab this” tines co

     
 

 

“mis Nexticwar. ‘operation was 5 mentioned in , genéral terns to 4

. While’ ‘the technique that Ecke ana Gladych are considering for use 2

 

" -. wil. be made through the standard nareo-hypnosis technique. Re-canditioning
: and re-orlenting an individual in such a matter, in the opinion of-the .. -

weiter, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal. of
.. time and the & fact that an interpreter is necessary in the cage com: --
. |. plisates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present a
’. knowledge, we would have no absolute guarantee that the aubject in this :

"° there is apparently a successful response to the treatment. ‘he writer . -

 
 
 

ease would maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though

'. did not suggest. to) that perhaps a total amnesia could be created = °

. Grvga treatments | were not veertain.

 

by a series of electra > but nerely indicated Shat amnesia under

 

 

   
 

: Attachment

 

. 4. Based solely upon the soft file summary, and prior to reviewing

"the official security file from which I extracted the additional details, it

appeared to me that the nature of the Agency's treatment of Dimitrov might

_ be something which should be brought to the attention of appropriate -

officials both within and outside the Agency. The fact that he is still | hes
active and is making allegations connected with the Kennedy | assassination a

“may add yet another dimension to this s story.

  

 

  

 
104-10066-10066

 

    
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: “Anthony A. ‘Lapham

 

 

FROM ALR, Cinquegrana
ce : Office of General Counsel _
SUBJECT :

" BLUEBIRD/ARTICHOKE Soft File Review - "Kelly? -
Lo, Dimitrov, I D.A. © ;

  

1. Lhave been reviewing summary sheets prepared by the Office of —
' Security concerning several hundred soft files on individuals associated,
or considered for association, in some way with the Agency's BLUEBIRD/ —_
. ARTICHOKE activities. In the course of that review I came upon the follow-
ing case which I discussed with Dick Lansdale and which we agreed should
. be brought to your attention for your information and whatever action: you:
may deem appropriate. — og

 

2. As is indicated in the attached copy of the soft file summary and
the 27 January 1952 memorandum upon which it is based, D. A. Dimitrov,
designated "Kelly," is a Bulgarian expatriate who appears to have been ~~ .
imprisoned in Greece some time in 1950 and 1951 on false pretenses because
the Agency feared he would accept an offer from French Intelligence. After
six months in custody, he was flown to Panama where he was misrepresented ©
as a psychopath and confined in a U.S. Military Hospital for several months. -
. The official security file shows he was then removed from the hospital and’ -
‘held by the Agency at Fort Clayton in Panama for three years. He was then
returned-te Greece and ultimately allowed to enter the U.S. as a refugee. _
_It appears from the attached copy of a 7 February 1952 memorandum that
the "Artichoke approach," i.e., the use of drugs to reverse his hostility
' ‘toward the U.S. and U.S. intelligence agencies, was never consummated. _

 

3. This man has had several contacts with the Agency since coming
to the U.S. In 1961 an Assistant to the DCI was contacted by a representative
of Parade magazine who had been informed by Dimitrov of his confinement
by the Agency. The Office of Security responded to the effect that this man
was disreputable, unreliable, and full of wild stories about CIA.’ As you
will note from the attached transcript of an 8 September interview on Good
Morning America, Mr, Dimitrov (now General Dimitrov and known as General
Donald A. Donaldson) apparently is alive and alleging that he knows who
ordered the assassination of President Kennedy.

t
+

 

O11dS

—
14-00000

. I, .Soft File Summary =
. L. Title of File: Kelly |

 

‘2. Brief Biographic Data: Kelly's true name is ee
- “DIMITROV, a 29-year-old ‘Bulgarian who was head of
-a small political party based in Greece and =~.
ostensibly working for Bulgarian independence.

 

3. Nature of Relationship/ Interest: .. ‘It was learned |
_ that French Intelligence Service was. attempting .
to bribe KELLY and make him.a double agent and 7 on

- Kelly appeared to be interested in the French offers.
Accordingly, a plan was made to have KELLY believe |

that he was going to be assassinated and for pratec-” |

_ tion he was placed in custody of the Greek police -
who then put him in prison. KELLY was held in the .

. prison for six months until the Greek authorities .::
"> decided that KELLY was was a nuisance and they told
our people to take him back. - He was then flown to -«. |.
Panama where, through arrangement, he was placed in
a U. S. military hospital as a psychopathic patient. .~

'. According to the 25 January 1952 memorandum, KELLY... :
had been in the hospital for several months and the ~ _—

hospital authorities want him out since he is causing -
problems. He is not a psychopathic personality. ;

'- Because of his confinement in a Greek prison and his
stay in a military hospital, KELLY became very hostile
toward the United States and our * intelligence opera-

: tions in particular. ae : .

 

 

S oPc was considering an ARTICHOKE" ‘approach’ to KELLY.

“-to see if it would be possible to reorient KELLY
favorably toward us. However, OPC advised on’
2 February 1952 that some opposition had arisen in
the top level of OPC to the handling of the KELLY
‘case in the manner that had been proposed. © Since

this opposition had arisen, nothing would be done

- to the KELLY case. - . . ae

4. Period of Relationship: -} No dates supplied
S.. Indications of Drug Experimentation: None found
©. Co-optee Interest: Not indicated : ,

og - ce Re
hed “. Azza betes: Cpesatble} De, Robert Ecke

     
   
14-00000

Td. Office of Security File Summary - DIMITROV, Dimitre
'. - Adamov (lyle 0. Kenty) (QKSTAIR) (SHAM/BGCONVOY) © oo
#46165 : L.

ie Short Summary of Agency Interest/Use:

The file was opened in October 1950, when DIMITROV |
was of operational interest to the Agency while
. employed for Radio Athens in Greece. Previously,
DIMITROV had fled from Bulgaria in July 1947. As

of October 1951, DIMITROV was in a hospital in

South America, apparently under Agency auspices.
In 1956 DIMITROV was brought. to the United States,
‘apparently after returning to Athens from South - i
. America, and the Agency made no further operational”
- use of DIMITROV. “In June 1960 DIMITROV [under case

- °#33259--Dimiter DIMITROFF ("Dike")] had contact -

‘'-- with the Contact Division outlining his background,

. Claiming financial difficulties, and requesting the
- Agency back his plans for. covert. activity | against

_ Bulgaria. The Agency apparently took no action in ©
‘this regard. During this contact DIMITROV claimed.
:..that circa 1951 he was held in a hospital/cell - in -
_. Panama City... . : : Lot

  

 

 

2. Background Investigations: None

3. Confirmation of ARTCHOKE/ BLUEBIRD/MKULTRA Interest:
_ No

 

4. Project Associates: - None.

 

 
