 

L co .
. ae X

& kay 1960 “
Pege $

what the special procecure involved, Verona say no further need to talk to
Donnen, However, | suggestetwfe creck «ith Carr to find out how this man got an
into our operations :

LO 17. The political part of our discussion was to have followed a formt

i which Kr, Droller «nd I worked out before I left. It was to inolude a rutionsle

a for the present United States’ position in Latin .merica and was to cover such
items ao his travel to washington, but tie conversation cuickly took such 2 turn

ay that I made a couple of on-the-spot changes, Yor one thing, ‘arona is cuite

wf familiar with United States! thinking on Cuba and is unhappy stout it. in the

a respects I have menticned earlier, but =t least he's sophisticated enough to

understand the uhys and wherefores. One fairly important point whieh we did COVE? ,

however, concerned the Eender-Carr group, I told Varona very frankly that certain

gotivities were not within my prevince but there was a group that i wae sware of,

headed by Sr. Carr (whose name incidentally Varona had mentioned to ae first),

that this group wa completely reliable and rell-intentioned and did have. the . ‘:

proper contacts with our government and that he should have no reservations about -

working with this group. it this same time, I gave Yarona my own emorgency ,

telephone number, MB 8-0469, in case he should have any protleme with United States!

guthorities such ag INS. ‘nd I also discussed with him a nunbor of figures of

importance in the Caribbean political situstion-eintelligo:cs netters »hich an

Ameriean officiel would have interest in. The subjects that I "avoided" were

paramilitary and the <uesation of conversion of pesos for dollare. He didn't.

bring up the point anc we talked about so wany other things thet I decided to

lects this one for the attention of the Sonder-Cerr group, na it looked like,

& good opportunity for them to help Varona out and thereby vatablish that much

more rapport. Tee

28, Varone told me that in the twelve hours or so thet he'd now been in

New York he had already received an approach from Zuseblo Mujal, the former
chief of the CIC under Batista. Through a inn named Alborto or ‘lfpado cruz, _
Mujal sent word that he recognized that any raturn to the statue quo under Batista
de now out of the usstion a:d that he is willing to tury old differences and

- Work in cunplete harmony with such ;@eple ea “Tony Yarona with the eingle ohiective’
of ridding Cuba of Fidel Castro. Varona is not going to roject this proposal
out of hand but ia going to study it very carefully nd talk to some of his Cuban
Solleagues about. it, In this connection, it le intoresting to note thet Varona.
and parhens othor Cubans may well be softoning towards -the former “untouchable®

: groupe of Datlskeres ag in the case of Mujnl snd Ichase, tho writer that i
montionsd elsewiero, : :

19. We did not disauaa thin aubject at great length on I had very carefully.
drawn a line between the-eativitdens in which 1 hada legitiwite tntercut e/a -
United Statec! Covarnane offiolal and thone which could tagt te handled in con=
jimetien with private ereupa, Le, the Osrr-lender grou: (aso mreeraph 17},

ewaver, Varona vid mention to ma that he bad, in Venezuela, a friend ho wae: &

sponte”

 

 

a EE Se a EL ee

~.

i

 
14-00000

 

 

6 May 1960 sf
Pege 6

wealthy owner of a fines and that this friend had promised him the use of the ,
finea for such parexilit rg training pur,oses ag he might have at some liter date,
Fre converasticn tid not permit me to learn the manta name at the tims and |
mantion the point here merely «s a lead for ,ossible inter follow-up.

STAYBRHIRD -

° 20,. Yarona told ne that he had lined up « ham radio operator in Caraec+s,

- Venesuela and that he wished to institute a radio schedule betreen a min in the
Hier area and the om? in Venesuels to give him communication with his group
dom there, This pattern we established curing the Batista regize by the rebel
units, -and it is desirable now, according to Varona, in view of the etrocious oe
Communication fecilities between Caracas and the United States. I suggested
that we might be able to help him set up the American end ef thie net. .

esi ase tease amanda cette 9 OG Mee aN REE

. 21, When I brought up the point of establishing staybehind commo with hie
people in Cuba to be in readiness in the event of a break in relations with the . .
United stites, he was «ulte enthusiastic. He ia going to coze up with names of =<
people whe could come to this country for three or four weeks for tha necessary :
Gomme training and then go back in to vork tranamitters-receivors end/or to
trein ethers, I also promised Varoma that we could mke radio trananitter
receivers available to hin,

oa "2p used the name “Robert. Rogers” with Varona, Since AMHAIL-3 wis also
_ ° 4n tem, had seen me the preceding day and also knows me ss "Rogers" this looked
like the best slias. - : uO :

 

   

 

 

   

Re_Reynolds \
Dofin/h

Distribution:
Orig, & l= CAH/L
. 2 = wh/b/Prop
1 = at/h/Intel :
X= Wi/h/PH .
2 ~ wi/h/ehrono (Hens for the Reeord)

 

   
  

i sect esa Silt Sond ystbes We nme, Silas mae
74-0000

- propagonda. These are the following:

days in Mined he wants to find an opnrtment. le will return to ‘lew York in tine
-. for the veeting of other Cuban oprosition leaders, including Juste Carrillo,
| Raesg and others, and hae no intention at tile time 6 going to Washington.

pre.

 

6 May 1960 “
Page 2

&. Heving just returned froa the Conference on Desocreey and Frasdom in
Caracas, Yarona kad ~ number of thoughts on that, te considered the Conference
& groat success from the standpoint of the liberal ‘ubans «ho had epposed any
resolution approving the Castro regime, He said there we o strong nove afoot to
part over such a resolution but that he, Janches Arengo, Jose lgnacio saseo and
others were able to keep auch a resolution from being passed. Tre min svonsors
of this, ty the vay, were mambera cf the left wing of the Aeclon Denocrstica of
Venesusla, Ne also said that a number of reople of lib ral tendencies attanded
the meeting with gross nisconce;tions concerning the nature of the Caatro regine
end that he and the cther Cubans th-t I mentioned were able to convert a nunber
Of these, Among them were Allende (fu) of Argentina -nd several others whose
anee he hag recorded, In other vords, som good wisston: ry work sua done at the
Conference, In terms of official rosulta, there wos very little. He told me
that the agenda was not terribly well worked out, that the peonle in attendance,
at the Con’erence were of iany political hues nd that nothing of great interest
feck place on the floor itself but rather in private caucuses and srall mestings
behind the scenes, 1°11 mention sone of the results of the Conference which are
ef interest to us operationally in succeeding Paragraphs,

 

|
4
{
{
|
i
t
{
~ 4
a
{
i
|
‘

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  

'  " §, Re quite naturally had a great deal to sry sbout the Castro regime and:
he pointed out throe areas in which Castro enjoys a great rropnganda adventage
today, areas which we would be well advised to keep in mind in planning our ow

“ @. Castro's conversion of foruer militory. barracks into schools. This -... ---..7
' has been a tremendous propaganda sucotas for Castro. Ke has managed

to soft~pedal completoly the -fnat that hets built new barracks and that

the erry is now bigger than it-ever hea beens .

. bo The latent nietrust or outright dislike of the United Stetes in the
: minde of most Latin Amerleans, Castro hag been able to play this theme
backward and forward, openly and tacitly, with great suscess.

@. The apparent affinity of the United ctetes! Senate for former supporters
of the Ratiata regime, This has he«n touched.on in an oarlier paragraphs

“6. Yarona told mo that he planned te go'te Hlant on 6 way and return to
New York Gity on the sighthor the morning of the ninth. During these two or three

‘7. He would like to bring his wife and daughter to the ‘tutes ae goon ae
Pponeible bub hopes he oun «Llow Iie daughter te Cingeh primary nchool, wiieh. will

 
 

[tostaaet-ooi]

 

MEHORARDUM FOR TRE RECORD

SUBECT: Meeting with Or, Manuel Antonio verona on § May in New York City,
1030 to 1315 houra . :

QENRRLAL,

3. Varona arrived the evening of & Fay and registered at the st. Norite
Hotel, After severs] unsuccessful efforts to reach him tere (because his plane

. 2 Varona was shocked over the Senate Interns] Security Subcomitte!s
choice of Col, UGALDE Carrillo to testify before them. Varona describes this
person as an absolute war criminal who has no business appearing before any
official United States body. Ke says thet he might resign himself to the fact
that in our democratic, parlimentary system ef sovernment such things ean hapy ea,

‘there {s not the slightest possibility that the average Latin American could ever

underatand that this action does not represent the thinking of the entire United
States Government. then I tried to exvlain this in terms of our traditional
separation of powers betwoon the iezislative and cxecutive itponches, the faet
that we are in an eleotion year, and other extenuating cirounstances, Yarona
expreased amarement that we have no core ef a sense of com-on purpose here in
this country than we apparently do. The Legislative Bronoh goes one direction
and the Executive Branch goea another and tare appears to be little ccordination
ceaen the two. . : owe .

3. Varona was alao quite unhappy ebouh the anaaiel sraceduce vhich Yant-
gevaion had given him whon he reaghad vow Fork the nézht befors. He thought
that he bad been handled ino mnther discourteous wy and could not underatand
why he wae plised on mrcle and inatructed to keep Ia deration and Naturalisation
informed of his address -% skl tice. i explained this sracinl procedure to hua
and emphasised the fact that it wa something that we ladd on for enly certain
Belect soople, that it was oviting through wountoins of red tapo in permitting
Visitors auch ae Verona bo move syound the aountry or even to Jeave dt and return
without the norm] aduinistr-tive diffioultins, This mollified him, and from
that point on 1 would any that our convorsation was on a very cordinl planes

A
one

ae bl- :

 

 

--—-

fp LA

(F ¥ a
Seen ner epemmnemr ernment ence cet pn tt h ater prahardetare mene apn -

 

 

 
14-00000

a

 

 

& May 1960
Page 3

take until around 10 June, tefore bringing her and the ober cver, He is slso
quite concerned about the servant, «n cld family retainer, vhose visa has not yet
been issued because of some difficulties she got into several years ago «itheut
being aware tht she was tresking a United Statea’ lev. This matter bas been
covered in an exchange of cables and 1 recommend that .e do shatewer we can ‘or
the woman 20 se te set the ‘arona family's mind at ease on this point. .

PROPAG. RDA

8 Dering our econverastion Zarona mde a number of points which my be of
welus in connection with our forthooming propaganda progrem, .<everal of our
wulnerabilities I've referred to in one of the earlier paragraphs, and we should
do whatever we can to repair thea, Another ;oint of interest wae Varona's feeling
towrd Francisco ICHASO, Thia gentlemn used to be a writer of editorials for
Diario de Ja Marina, and he has aleo worked for Bohemia and station CiqQ, He wee
pro-Batista st one time. Varona hag 2 very high regard for him as a writer ard
feels that he oan be weful if he wiites anonymously or under a pen names, He is

most arcclous to bring him out and will undoubtedly plan on using him for propaganda :

- writing if and when ichaso gets out of Cuba, Concerning the Carecas Conference
which just finished, Varona told me that the speech which Caldera (I believe it
ie Rafael Caldera) made at the closing section was, in his om words, "formidable",
8 tremendous apeesh, This, for saute reason, has not beon publicized either in
“atin Amerfoa or here in the United States, according to Yorona, It would be
very good for us to do everything peasitle to spread the word of Caldera throughout

” the hemtephere, Varona also said that éduarde FREI Montalva of Chile spoke

extremely well.on the opening cay-but that his -remorke were off-the-cuff and there
probably ie no written record of what Froi had to say.

9. Before leaving Caracas, Varona organized a nucleus of a propagnnda outlet
there. He expects to use Carsase ag a distribution center for propagands through-
out, South America and the Caribbean, He had a talk with President Betancourt
’ there who approved thia activity, Betancourt teld Yarona henceforth to go direstly

to the Hinieter of Treasury, MAYORBE, as hia officinl contact,

POLITIOAL ACTION

20, Verona ehvtousiy has a great uiny ideas on the political Cleld. He has -
& representative ‘in Caraga, se I have mentioned, and he hopes within the near
‘future to have his own people in every country of the hemisphere #6 agit-prop
types. One of the ven that he oxpeste to use for this type Amalio FIALLO, whe de
now dn Miami and whe hag been mentioned in comnundoations to the Sleld end in uo
memorandum from WNDALRe Fiallo ia @ Oubaa, a former member of Agccion Catoliga, -
Hels extremely welleordented rolitdenlly and an oxoellort openkor. Fiatio wade
only one mistake in bie polition] enreer, nooording to Varona, That was in 1954,
when he suprorted the idea of elections under the Hatiat. regime, He hos sinoe-
goon the light and in now coneiderad quitu reliuvle and valunble dy Verona, whe
plana to send him on a tuw' of Latin Amrioa,

 
 

 

' Baving Sanches join the Directorate, if I may o.l) it that, He did say that

‘we what I thought of itublo, In non-committal fashion I turned the question around

 

6 Kay 1960 /
Page &

Li. Varona told me thst before leaving Cuba he uae able to organise a
ceaplete underground movement of worle who ere not openly identified with the
Autentico Movezent. , :

: 22 Concerning a aite for a future Junta. Governnsnt~in-exile, Directorio
or vhat have you, Varona doubts thet Costa Kites will be suitable, ielations
between “Pepe” Figueres and President Schendi are rot as good a8 they would have
to be for Figueres to obtain the approval of “ehindi for such activities. There
would be no problem in holding ¢ meeting or series of meetings of tiis group in
San Jose, but as a permanent site, it is doubtful, in Varona's opinion. (1
didn't bring up the concept of a governzent-in-exile or any of the attendant
legsl problems, so we didn't discuas this. In sy view it would be better fer

the Bender-Carr group to raise the point.) “

13. ‘hen I asked him then what would be a better permanent site for ths
@ireeting body, he said that Mexico would be good, but the United States would
undoubtedly hsve to be the cain rasembly point for these people. :

Ua. Varona raised the question of Sanoties irango, He leang in favor of

Sanohes, like Rubio Fadilla, has to be handled with kid gloves. For example,
Sanchen should never ettend a meeting of Cubans and their Amerionn advisors .
@.ge Kr. Bender or Mr. Carr, for the resson that to Sanches Arango this would
appear to be servitude on the part of the Cubang towards the Americans, And if
at ony ister date he had a difference of opinion with the other Cubsns in the
group, he alight charge them with being lackeya of the Americans, “ith this in
mind, Varona recommended that we talk to ‘ancher Arango separately before he
joins any Cuban group under our sponsorship.

15. When I gave Varona the letter frou Juan antonic Rubio Padilla, he asked

to Varona himself, At this, he emiled and paused e long time nnd then told me
that Ruble was a fine man but thet he had lost two scna who died of the aume
ilineos, that this has mode of him, if not a titter man, one who retains hia
independence to an extreme, This ia iis iinoipal characteristic, volitieally,
he is -ulte conservative but free of any involvenent with the Natiste regiue

Hela amen whe ‘kes to work alone and who le net inclined te go slong with the
will of the mnjority in situaticne iike the prasent one wiere memoors of the — .
oppeaition to Castro are trying to organise despite internnl polities) differences,

 

26, In connection with hin ontry at Idlewild on & fay, Verona asked Carr
for some help when Carr celled him lster in thu evening. Garr in turn referred
him to a gentleman numed Leon Dennen wie ilvws at 77 bark Terrsee rast and hae’
two telephones, “A Q-Lidh and LU Jehh72. Danavn tele;honad Varona on the norning.
of 5 May at Varona'a hotel and voluntecred to help VYarons with ony problems he
might have with imnigration and Naturn}iantion, After J hag explained to him

v
; oneal ,

 

celle nero inane sechininenue shiteae rire Mittens eens tee yt apenas mite itt ttn henner
