|
|
|

 

 

GUTIERREZ was a suapected Communist and that, his close association vith
Communists such as Corina RUDRIGUEZ ami Eunice JDIO strengthened the

suspicion. on
(b-13.s tbs 30 6-26

. . j

7. In a_rather oonplica document, 191, 18 September 1950,

whioh want but not to, the Colombian
orts on arms

 

 

 

 

shipments in Costa Rican territory which are rumored msy ba intended to
reach Colombia. He wag sent to Coata Rica und made a general report
covering the arma shipments, the involvment of the Caribbean Legion, the
infiltration of the Legion by Communists, and the Costa Rican Communists
who were involved. Diesuseing the Coste Rican Communista who had been
obliged to seek sanctuary in Guatezala, Mexico and Venesuela, he listed
Buntos ODIO, Costa Rican poet, Communist agitator, residing in Guatemala.

8. No other information aoncernisy Eunice ODIO is available at
headquarters. Aleo, there is no confirmation df the allegation that
Eunice UD1U had been the mistress of Jacobs ARBENZ. :

woud

He Mares

 

 

 

 
 

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

AIR : or spaTCH NO. HSSMaLe

aa

! CLASSIFUCATIOM
i aaenee Reese :
: Nay

Chief-of Station

arecore ave 08 SEA POUCH

 

   

 

ta

 

FROM

 

Chief, WH
SUBJECT GENERALS

SPECIFIC. oo ODIO

 

 

    
 

1. Referense is sada to your cabl 5 goserntng unto BIC
» 1 Ostober 1947 stated that 5 prises given hy the

Cua’ Goverment for proce ani poetry, one wes averded,in the
last week of September to a young Costa Bunies ADIO.

2 During her stay in Gus tele. ‘tty eter receiving the svard,
Sefiorita OD1U gave two recitations owas given in the CT@
assembly hall, tetveraite. faze zee acuity of lhmanitios of
the Gan Carlgs TRS. eB o Guatemalan pow,
Miguel Angey/ ASTURIAS, \ 7

3. Mew WIG style Ne eid) » madden, This is not atrangs, as
she is a very active Commnia' fo iehia ea) being 8 meee ee near ien
Communist Litertatd ‘eel. = Bugek flostos—to which Carina Rodrigues

4. Buntes “we exo\ee isin in 1947 es being about twenty-five years
of oer © white, with blagk ami black evens about five feet five inches

ta era her hate long, which extonde half wey vey to har valet. Her platform
personality is pleasing, ami har voica, whi which de the most attrestive feature,
esoily captivates her audiences, because of ita low soothing tond.

56 Bor fanatdeies fox the cause of Commmien and her work and efforts
vere fully appredated by the so-called Politburo of the Partido Vanguardia

  

 

 

 

Popular in Costa Riga. a : eo, q) G 44 :
6 3, 1ha2296), 21 Hévenbor 1947, montioned a lottar written :
by Joag [GUTIERREZ Mango, sox: af ho Costa Rican Anbas Wi
sdéresssd ‘to Buntoo ODIO in which’ bel sepsis highly of
noe Coste Ricas. Communist. ‘ike soures sod: by
> A SING OFFICER - COORDINATING OFFICER ;
‘ ‘a. | T. tage Jove _ ; : ‘
fen BiG SEGREF s
é CLASSIFICATION
roayno. a1-2e

 

 

 
 
  
   

 
