104-10163-10137  . :

~~

pesca SONG G RNR OR RETAIL CRS erent EONAR SED fl | AARNet ct nS ne es

 
         
 
       
   
          
     
     
     
   
         
     
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
    

CONTINUATION OF | x
pe lg GHSRATCHE | see
~ c Ps ne: (ey .

 

.

ec. The translation and_forwarding of a document ceived
from Cuba by Carlos Pelaez from|his brothes Roberto Pelaez}| piving
- information on missiles sites, installations and general info.mation,
‘ is considered the most important of the month. (Note: Disseminated
‘as F-5.)

3. General:

a. .A card system has been initiated to provide quick
‘reference to basic data on the Organizations in this area. It is
believed that in the coming month, this project will be terminated.

b. It has been extremely difficult to operate during the
past month in view of the events of the exchange of prisoners'
negotiations and the developments of the crisis commencing on
22 October with President Kennedy's speech. The Cuban colony in
this area has since been in a highly emotional state, ranging from
hysterical optimism, to an aggressive pessimism, with anti-American
symptoms, .

c. In judging the tenor of the Cuban exile colony at the
end of the month, it is considered extremely pessimistic in relation
to the solution of the Cuban problem, which is ultimately interpreted
by the colony to be successful only with the overthrow of Castro.
Personalities in this area feel that Cuba is a factor in internaticna
politics and no longer a local or hemispheric affair. Recognition
is given regarding the personal victory of Kennedy over Khruschev.
The hopes of the Cuban colony appear at this time to be in the future

“actions of the Organization of American States, and in Castro's
hopeful non-compliance with the Russian-Xennedy agre:ment regarding,
United Nations inspection of missile sites.

d. It is believed to be significant that in the crucial
days, when the Cuban.colony believed that an invasion was imminent,
there was very little effort involved, towards unifying the Cuban
colony, a8 compared to the pre-invasion days of April 17.

END OF DISPATCH

 
 
 

ae
+ 530 06 PrEvious eorTiny -
104-10163-10137

. Released under the John F.. Kennedy Assassination .
ok " - oo: , Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)

.

         
  
  
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
      
       
   
  

Ove eT ey
PER QUARLE ASE
im ROU he UK

 

DPR GYROSE/KUAOLE
‘Grape neganen Reruns
; FYI

i - REF: UFGA-6209, 13 October 1962.

. The following own report on activities during
the month of October :

Would only add the usual fiseal
indications that he was paid his salary of $500 and was reimbursed
$173.80 for operational expenditures during the period 10 Se,tember
through 10 October 1962. The latter figure includes the authorized
purchase of a secure file cabinet for the safekeeping of basic

personality and organizational data which the agent uses in his .
work.

.

1. Investigations: °
a. Followinp a lead from Frank Fiorini, a Navy F8F fighter
was located, owned by Alex Rorke, that was being: prepared for raids

over Cuba. This provided corroboration of information already
received from other sources.

b. A pending investigation of the financing of the
newspaper Zig-Zag, was completed successfully, as of Report No. 19,
10-9-62, : :

c. On the spot information was verbally submitted from
phone calls received from Cuba by members of the exile colony to
the effect that the Voice of the Americas was being heard in Cuba,
as well as a positive reaction, in general, to the blockade,

2. Reports: Seven reports were submitted during the month,
and two documents were translated and submitted,

. a. Reports Nos. 17, 18 and 21 give background informstion
on persons in the area, that are believed to be useful.

‘ “bd. Report No. 22 adds light to the rather shady manipulztio
connected with tHe controversial newspaper namcd "Osnuncie” that bas
appeared in this area, CAFE LISPANAED

’ HOY 15 Ez

DIPATCH BYRD seen paneer

0!
7 ie re UFCA-5660

ALA IARTOCS 9 PATER
| W-bacde- 5%
31-251889

     

 
 

   

Gondtetstl y
dectntatticanes
