13-00000

DEUKKE

ANNEX A

FINDING AIDS AND. INDEXES
PUBLISHED;

Sylvia Meagher and Gary Owns,
vestigation (London:Scarecrow Press, 1980).

UNPUBLISHED: .

(From Russ Holmes)

(1) HSCA Requests November 1976-June 1979 Relating to the’

DO (3 vol.). This finding aid for DO records provides the OLC
number for each request and the date of the HSCA request.

(basically in chronological order). It also contains a copy of

each request which includes the subject, name, or organization
for which information was requested. :

(2) Subject and Name Index in card box. This is a subject
index arranged alphabetically on 3x5 cards. It contains the
HSCA request date and wether or not there is CIA (DO)

‘documentation on the subject. If there is no documentation the

card has an NR. If there is a 201 file it is listed as well as
any looose folders which can be found in boxes 1-34. It is
used in conjunction with the HSCA Requests finding aid...

(3) Folder Title List for boxes 1-34 (DO materials).. Each

box has a handwritten copy of the folder title list.
Unfortunately, these lists provide very little data or
information on the contents of the folders.

(4) Folder Title List for Microfilm Reels 1-45. This”
includes a Folder Title List for Oswald 201 File (Reels 30-44).

(5) . Finding Aid for House Staff Notes. This finding aid
numbers each documnt 000001-2001204. Unfortunately, there is
no listing of the documents themselves. * Annotatéd on this list
is the box number where the document may be located (Boxes

1-34). ;

(6) List of House Staff Members. This is an alphabetical

listing of HOuse staff who examined and took notes. on. CIA

documents. It is incomplete. Itr does provide document
numbers for the material they examined.

(7) Inventory Prepared by DO on HSCA Material Returned to
CIA. One wooden box of 3x5 cards. The cards include a variety

- of numbering systems such as a document number, JFK folder_

number, and a RS number. ~ The system is not useable-at this .
time. a re oO: By

 

 

SECRET

 

  
13-00000 -

SECRET

(8) House Indexing System 001-187 JFK. This appears to be
a House system imposed on its documents. It appears in boxes
19-21 but there is no finding aid for it and there are gaps.
(Only CIA materials were returned to the CIA

(9) FOIA Inventory. Numbering System. This was developed
by CIA staff. DO documents are numbered 1-1700, OCA 2000-, All
microfilm 3000-, Office of Security 4000-. There is no central
index for these systems. .

(10) Loose Polder Inventory of DO Materials. This is a
folder list for 36 loose folders. :

MICROFILM

.

(11) Folder Title List for Reels 1-45.

(12) Folder Title List for Oswald 201 File (Reels 30-44),
qhsi material was actually reviewed by the House Committe staff
n 978. .

(13) Computer Print Out Up-Date for Oswald 201 File
a. Material collected prior to November 22, 1963 (3
page print out).
b. Material collected after November 22, 1963
anepeces most recent materials added to the file. (Large print
ou .

- oe (14) Index to Microfilm Reels 47-72. These are -
handwritten item lists for reels 47-52; a spot check list’ for.

reels 57, 59, 63, 64, and 72.

(15) OCA Index to boxes 49-63.. Organized by HSCA request -
date and OLC number. This is a folder title list. | Folder
Title List for boxes 1-34 (HSCA Records)

History Staf£ Checklist of boxes 1-63, Oswald's 201 File, and
sampling of microfilm (the microfilm sample includes all reels
not covered by Microfilm Index).

SECRET
3. Loose Files The HSCA collection's third part comprises
a number of loose folders that evidently belong within the
collection, including eight bulky Mexico City Station files
(including cable traffic and "P® files) that are also in the
microfilm. These files are considered to be part of the Oswald
201 file and are held in IMS. A group of 16 file folders that
appear to be unaccessioned contain a miscellany of HSCA
requests and Agency responses on subjects such as Oswald in the
USSR, Marina Oswald, Roselli, and Giancana. These appear to
belong with Job. No. 80-TO1357A.

4. Organization Partly because of the collection's
origins in the disorderly process of the Agency's response “te.
Massive investigatory committee requests, the collection badly
Organized. Moreover, years of working through these files in
response to numerous Freedom of Information Act requests have
disrupted the collection further. More importantly, however,

the Agency. has.not taken intellectual control of the collection

in the fifteen years since it was created. Partial systems of
organization have been imposed upon-various parts of the —
collection without reference to or use of sound archival
principles and procedures. Although 15 separate (and
unsatisfactory) indexes to the collection eventually surfaced,
the lack of any central index or finding aid makes retrieval of
individual documents .extremely difficult. Although CIA review
officers attempted to impose some order to the collection by
numbering each-document and adding a folder numbering system to
each box, there is no central control ‘or finding aid for any of
these these systems... Provenance cannot -be traced, and entire |

5. Non-record Copies this collection consists for the
most part of xeroxed copies rather than original documents. We
Suspect that the originals of many, if not most, of these

xeroxed documents would be difficult if not impossible to
locate.

6. Preservation Much of the material throughout the
collection, especially thermofax copies and photos, is fragile
and in poor physical condition, requiring immediate attention
to prevent further deterioration. —

  

files are missing that cannot” be” “satisfactorily “accounted for. 7"

 
13-00000

b. Boxes 35-63 Boxes 35 through 63 in this job (29 cu.
Ft. of records) are equally eclectic, divided as they are
between records from the Office of Legislative Counsel (now
OCA), Inspector General, Office of the General Counsel,
Directorate, of Science and Technology, Office of Security
(security files), and the HSCA itself. These records, .
which are mostly CIA material (heavily DO), consist of
reports, memoranda, transcripts, cables, letters, newspaper
clippings, photographs, and charts. They include materials
relating to the Garrison investigation, Watergate, Cuban
exile activities, and CIA attempts to assassinate Fidel
Castro, There is also some material relating to Martin .-
Luther King, black power, .and racial. violence, as well-as-a
DS&T report on photos of the “unknown man* at the Mexico
city Soviet embassy,’ and an NPIC analysis of the Zapruder
film. mye a" ihe -

 

ope

 

Cc. Box 64: Microfilm Box 64 of Job. No. 80-T01357A
contains 72 reels of micréfilm (although the box is labeled
“CIA/DDO HSCA Records, box 1 of 2," box 2 has not been
found). The History Staf€ was assured, however, that this
was indeed box 64 of Job No. 80-TO1357A. In addition to a
copy of Oswald's 201 file (as actually shown to the HSCA’
staff in 1978), the microfilm contains material on Oswald's
activities in Mexico City (primarily photographic and phone
tap surveillance of the Soviet and Cuban embassies and
consulates), Mexico City Station files (including cable
traffic and the station's "p* Personality files), CIA
Security files, Nosenko interrogation transcripts,-and a-----
great deal. of information relating to Cuban.exile-groups.—
There are al$0 22 reels of .201 files, which” contain 151° 7.
individual files. Some 6f the material on these microfilm
reels reproduces DO material in the boxes, although it is

  

 

difficult to judge exactly how much.

2.. Oswald's 201 File .The second part of the HSCA
collection is Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 File, 16 boxes (16 cu.
ft. of records) held in the DO's Information Management Staff
(IMS). This file consists primarily of copies of FBI reports
relating to Oswald, FBI investigations on Oswald and his — ~
activities (including items that FBI sent CIA_prior.to.the  ~
assassination), interviews with Marina Oswald, Department of
State cable traffic concerning Oswald's passport and visa ;
applications, information tracing Oswald’s weapons, material on ;
Jack Ruby and Silvia Duran, and a tape of Oswald’s August 1963
radio debate. There are also detailed FBI reports concerning
Oswald's assassination of the-President ‘and his contacts with
Soviet officials, as well as records relating to Gilberto
Alvarado, who maintained that he witnessed Cubans passing
Oswald cash at a party on the night before the assassination,

2.
-. SECRET _

   
13-00000

SECRET

d. If Congress should eventually undertake to open this
entire collection without regard to classification, the
National Archives will be in a stronger position to protect
its national security and privacy information than the CIA,
whose motives would appear self-serving, if not sinister.

11. Action: If you wish to retire the Agency's House

Select Committee on Assassinations collection to the National
Archives, the following actions (from the offices noted) will
be needed:

a. Request permission from Congress. (Office of
Congressional Affairs)

b. Transfer responsibility for court-ordered FOIA
declassification review from CIA to the National Archives.
(Office of the General Counsel, with Information Management
Staf£, DO)

c. Prepare CIA guidelines for NARA’s declassification
review. (Office of Information Technology, DA)

d. Prepare the appropriate Historical Review Program
documentation and NARA forms, and deliver the records.
(Office of Information Technology, DA)

e. Announce the transfer jointly with Dr. Don Wilson,
Archivist of the United States, and Congressman Louis
Stokes. (Public Affairs Office)

fs/ J. Kenneth U2donela
J. Kenneth McDonald

Attachments

5
SECRET
13-00000 |

SUMMARY
CIA HISTORY STAFF SURVEY :
House Select Committee on Assassinations Collection

10 February 1992

The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) >.
Collection consists of the following parts, which the attached
box list describes in further detail: MF,

1. Seq The first and major part of
the collection, 64 boxes of records under Job No. 80-TO1357A,
is wide-ranging material collected in response to House Select ~
Committee on Assassinations srequests for documents relating to
‘the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and, to a far -
lesser extent, Dr. Martin Luther King, Coordinated by the -: -
Office of Legislative Counsel (now the Office of Congressional
Affairs) and now under OCA control, these are the "sequestered"

boxes that have been the subject of FOIA litigation and court
order, .

a. Boxes 1-34: DQ Boxes 1-34 (34 cu. £t. of records) are
bout one-half DO-coliected materials, with the remainder ~
largely of third agency documents ,;” primarily FBI veports~ ©
gathered for the Warren Commission. There is also some

material from the Department of State and the Immigration.

and Naturalization Service,” as well as the original HSCA.?°o-0---...

‘requests. Also included are stafft handwritten notes, |
. Photographs, ana copies of newspaper clippings. These’
records cover a wide variety of topics but focus on CIA..
Operations against Cuba and Castro; Lee-Harvey Oswald's:
sojourn in the USSK, Oswald's activities in Mexico City and ..
New Orleans, and a large number -of name ‘traces requested by
the HSCA staff, There is’ also material on the Black
Panthers, the civil rights movement, and the peace pn.
movement. Among the subjects that appear in these boxes ©
are: Jack Ruby, Clay Shaw, Frahk Sturgis, E. Howard Hunt, ©
Nosenko, Guy Bannister, “David Ferrie, Silvia Duran, Martin
Luther King, Coretta Scott King, James Earl Ray, William. -
Kunstler, Jim Garrison,-G. P. Hemming, Marina: Oswald, John oo
‘Roselli, Sam Giancana, Santos Traff£icante,. and Rolando =. ......-
Cubela's AMLASH Operations against Castro. These records
also.include the 1967 Inspector General*s-report*on-CIA -
Plots against Castro and the testimony of Richard Helms in
executive session before HSCA,

- CL BY (0986542 /

SECRET DECL OADR

        
13-00000

SECRET

29 contain records from the Office of Legislative Counsel (now
OCA), Inspector General, Office of the General Counsel,
Directorate of Science and Technology, Office of Security, as
well as several boxes of HSCA staff notes and records. Box No.
64 contains 72 microfilm reels (each equivalent to a box of
records), which include the Oswald 201 file and Mexico City
Station records, as well as other 201 files and information
about Cuban exile groups.

4. Organization: The collection is arranged haphazardly,
having been gathered in response to a series of HSCA and (in
the case of the Oswald 201 file) Warren Commission requests.
Although portions of the collection are organized by a variety
of systems, there is no overall intellectual control of the
entire body of records. We found fifteen indexes to the
collection, none of which is adequate for control or retrieval.

5. Sensitivity: Although the collection is almost
entirely at SECRET or lower classification, there is a

_ scattering of TOP SECRET and codeword documentation. Materials

we consider especially sensitive--more for privacy than
national security reasons--include 201 files, phone taps, mail
intercepts, security files, photo surveillance, names of
sources, watch lists, and MHCHAOS documentation. Such material
occurs throughout the collection, usually in response to HSCA.
requests for name traces. There are 22 microfilm reels of 201
files in addition to the Oswald file, while eight boxes contain
security records, including, for example, files. on David Atlee
Phillips, Martin Luther King, and Clay Shaw.

6. Non=-CIA Material: The collection includes a lot of
third-agency material, mostly from the FBI. FBI reports
dominate the 16 boxes of Oswald's 201 file, and nearly half of
the 34 boxes of DO-collected material consists of third~agency
material. The collection's remaining 29 boxes coftain mostly
CIA records, as does the box of microfilm, except for Oswald's
201 file. There is also some documentation of foreign liaison,
mainly with the Mexican government.

7. CIA Complicity? Our survey found nothing in these
records that indicates any CIA role in the Kennedy
assassination or assassination conspiracy (if there was one),
or any CIA involvement with Oswald. These records do reveal,
however, that Clay Shaw was a highly paid CIA contract source
until 1956. While nothing surfaced on Carlos Marcello in the
collection, we found substantial documentation on other members
of the mob, including Santos Trafficante.

8. Although the results of our survey fully support my
earlier recommendation against inviting a panel of historians

2°
SECRET
104-10337-10006

 

SECRET

t bank e

OTE 92~1403
10 February 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA: Director of Training and Education
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: vg. Kenneth McDonald
: Chief, CIA History Staff

SUBJECT: Survey of CIA's Records from House Select
; Committee on Assassinations Investigation

1. As you requested on 16 January, the History Staff has
now surveyed CIA's records from the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) investigation into the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. As promised in my 30 January
interim report, I can now give you a full account of our
findings, and of my recommendation for transferring this HSCA
collection at its existing classification to the National
Archives through CIA's Historical Review Program.

2. After the Office of Congressional Affairs arranged
permission from Congress for History Staff access to the
sequestered 64 boxes of this collection, we exami and
other related holdings at Headquarters and the

(Records Center. As a result of careful, persistent, and
determined inquiries, we are fairly confident--although by no
Means certain--that we have seen all the documents that CIA
collected for the HSCA investigation of 1977-1979. The summary
of our findings which follows is documented in more detail in
attachments A and B. .

3. General Description: The HSCA collection (defined as
all records that the CIA provided to that Committee for its
1977-1979 investigation) is a large and chaotic collection.
Beyond the 64 boxes sequestered by Congress that have been
involved in FOIA litigation, there are 16 boxes of Oswald's 201
file and numerous loose folders (mainly from Mexico City
Station records) that were collected for the Warren Commission
investigation. Most of this material can be found on microfilm
in the sequestered collection. Of the 64 boxes, 34 have
material collected by the Directorate of Operations, while

CL BY 0986542
SECRET DECL OADR
13-00000

SECRET

into CIA to examine and report on this collection, the problem
that this proposal addressed remains--the widespread
allegations, given new impetus by Oliver Stone's "JFK," that
CIA was part of a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.
That CIA has a closed collection of records concerning the
Kennedy assassination is well known, both because it is part of
over 800 cubic feet of HSCA investigation records that Congress
has closed until 2028, and because our 64 boxes of these
records have been the subject of FOIA requests, litigation, and
court orders. Since opening all US Government records on the
Kennedy assassination has been proposed by former President
Ford, Congressman Louis Stokes, and others, many observers will
consider your decision on this question a test of your new
openness policy. .

9. Options: CIA's three principal options are to keep the
Agency's HSCA records closed and in our hands, to open them
entirely, or to transfer them to the National Archives. Before
making my case for the third option, I should note the
following considerations with respect to the first two:

a. Closed: To maintain the status quo would keep the
collection classified, closed and in CIA's hands,
sequestered by Congress until 2029. CIA would, however,
remain subject to the 1988 court order to review portions
of it in response to FOIA litigation. While putting the
collection into Historical Review Program processing would
speed and broaden its declassification review (which would

“nevertheless take several years), such an internal shift
would probably not change -the public perception of our
closed position. Although keeping these records closed
remains a viable option, it tends both to encourage
suspicion that CIA is part of a cover-up, and to undermine
the credibility of CIA's openness policy. If Congress
should decide to open all HSCA records, howevér, CIA would.
be hard put to keep its HSCA collection closed.

b. Qpened: To open the HSCA collection would require the
permission of Congress. Indeed, CIA would presumably not
consider this option except in response to congressional
action or pressure, or in order not to be the last hold-out
in a Government-—wide opening of Kennedy assassination
records. While opening the collection would disclose a
good deal of information that deserves continued protection
for privacy or national security reasons, a total release
would dramatically demonstrate CIA's new openness, and
rapidly reveal that these records contain nothing pointing
to a CIA role in the Kennedy assassination.

3
SECRET
13-00000

 

SECRET

10. Recommendation: I recommend that CIA transfer its
entire HSCA collection (as defined and identified in this
report) at its existing classification to the National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), for continuing
declassification review by Archives staff, in accordance with
the relevant laws, regulations and CIA guidelines. This
transfer should be carried out under the auspices of CIA's
Historical Review Program. To retire this HSCA collection to
the National Archives offers some significant advantages:

a. It would get the collection off our hands. Retiring
the records to the National Archives, which is by law the
eventual repository for all permanent US Government
records, should reduce public suspicion of a CIA cover-up.
Such a transfer would not set a new precedent, since CIA
has previously retired over 4000 cubic feet of Office of
Strategic Services operational records to NARA, as well as
all CIA records so far declassified under the Agency's
Historical Review Program. Although CIA has not previously
transferred classified records to NARA, the transfer of
this HSCA collection, resulting from a congressional
investigation, follows the special precedent of the
Classified CIA documents retired to NARA‘s vaults as part
of the records of the Watergate and Iran-Contra
investigations.

b. Transferring these HSCA records to the National
Archives will protect their existing classification. The
Departments of State and Defense have routinely retired
Classified records to NARA for years. In accordance with
statutory guidelines, NARA must ensure the confidentiality.
of investigatory sources and the proper protection. of
personal privacy and national security information,
including intelligence sources and methods. NARA would
continue the court-ordered declassification review
according to CIA guidelines. CIA can accelerate the
declassification of this collection by funding review
positions at NARA, as the Department of State and other
agencies have done in the past. (Attachment C outlines
declassification procedures for classified records retired
to the National Archives.)

c.- NARA's professional archivists will bring this
collection under control (as they have done with the 4000
cubic feet of disorganized OSS records that CIA has retired
since 1984), so that it can be usefully researched as it is

' declassified. Moreover, many of the records in this
collection (especially photographs, carbon flimsies, and
Thermofax) need expert preservation, which NARA is
organized to provide.

4
SECRET
