” §8-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSE
-2-

cooperation, would use Costa Rican soil ag a etaging area for
an invasion of Haiti, to overthrow President Rene Duvalier,
If successful, Masferrer and his Haitian cohorts would then
supply funda and armament to Starke for his projected nove
against the Trejos government.

3. Helc%vater informed Oduber that he was planning to
go to Hew York City on 21 February, ostensibly to vigit mou-
bers of his family. However, the true purpoce of his vigit
is to talk with Hasforror and Pather Diego Manuel Abilio
Hadrigal Alvarez, the priest who bas represented Kasferrer

a the negotiations, through Molo, with Starke. Helo haa
boon commisaioned by Starke to agcertain the quantity and
gource of arma that the Maoferror group will make available
to Starke 12 the group succeeds in overthrowing Duvalier. |
Holo ales is to find out what other agsistance the Masferrer
group will provide to Starke, how m&iny Haitian and Cuban
exiles Hasferrer will send to Cosa Bicsa, and when they will

 

arrive, yo oO ;

4. Wolo caid thst a Costa Rican vis® already bag been
obtained for Jacques Boringlans, ® Haitian, who will be the
first of the group of Haitian and Cuban oxiles to coms to
Costa Hica to aet up their atagi avea, Horireglane'sa via
“ie Obtiined by Btarke throug igo Araaz Bonilla, who
until recently was the chief clerk (official mayor) of the
Ministry of Public Security. ~ . 4

a feoge saya ten ar Wek

5. (Pield Coumont: Holo bas the reputation locally of
being an inveterate intriguor and ao braggart. Therefore, bis
veracity is open to question. It is possible that the infor-
mation he basa given to Odubor is to some extent exaggerated
er distorted. It ig algo possible that Starke will find Belo
to be a lesa than trustworthy intermediary.)

 

        

SSumeRbee

  

 

& Field Disses: State Army CINCSOUTH (also sent
sad . :

 

 

 

RSI ce MAN

       
 

Esra AHA i RRA

  
  
 

 

     
      
   
     
    
        
     
        
    
      
    
   
    
        
   
   
   
   
    
    
    

Mul FINALLY EVALUAT
BN hice ey ee

. . ~~
REPORT NO. .

  

on oe pate oISTR. 23 February 1968
CountRY Costa Rica. , -

bol February (1968

supsect Negotiations Between Ludwig Starke
. ~ and Rolando Masferrer with a View
U Toward Mutual Support for Projecte
Revolutionary Movements :

a Costa Rica, San Jose | | ;
se (15 - 23 February 1968) FIELD NO. 099
source A high-level member of the National Liberation Party (PLN)

who has access to and the confidence of top leaders of his

party. His strong identification with the PLN and the

knowledge that his reporting will reach U.S, official

circles probably cause him to present his reporting to the’

best advantage of the PLN, He has submitted reliable in-

formation during the past year, but he has been known to

withhold pertinent information. He received the informa-

tion from Daniel Oduber.

 

    

_ 1. GPiold Comment: THC8-314/01096-68 reported that
Ladwig Starke Jimonez, & right-ving eutremiat who is the
leader of tha aocurity forces of the Movimiento Costa Rica
‘Libre (ECRL) ,.anti-Comunaist buginesanen's group, had in-
formed Daniel bor Quiros, of the Hational Liberation
Party (Fi), «Gat be was aking plans and cooking support
for @ possible Gove against the Costa Bican Goverment in
the event that it chould appear to bo in dangor of passing
into the hands of leftists. To that ond Starke wis nego-
tiating with sympathetic groups cutsides of Costs Rica. He
wag in indirect contact with Rolando Baagerrer, 6 Cubaa
exile involved in plotting against’ the Governments of Haiti
and Cubs, through Pernando Helo Pomtanillias, a Cuban oxile
in Coota Rica who was in touch with a priost associated
with Hasforrer.) : ( dew every’ )

2. In eid-Pebruary Oduber said that he had contacted
Helo, whom ho had known for some time, in an effort to learn
more about the negotiations betwoon Starke and Maaferrer, in
which Helo had been acting as an intermediary. Helo said

    
    
 
     
     
     
   
   
    
     
        
 
     
     

 

that the objective of the negotiations waa to work out @ ”
_plan whereby Haitian and Cuban exiles, with Starke's :
; a on <adee- .

 

 

  

8-B-C-R-B-T HO FOREIGN DISSEM
DISTRIBUTION :

 

 

 

 

 
