74-0000

 

a SECRET “

Attach. to G-7984
Case 815437-X

AGE: 35 NATIONALITY: Russian _ SEX: Male

Preliminary Survey:

Due to the inadequacy of the submitted material, only tentative
eummarizing statements can be made.

Summarizing Statements:

The writer is evidently a. reserved and careful person who
attends to his affairs in a rather deliberate manner. He possesses a
good intelligence (not brillant), ia well educated and professionally
trained, He has thoroughly absorbed the material he has read and
studied and knows how to utilize it in a purposeful manner. His way

_ef thinking is clear, logical and fairly adaptable. He apparently is

‘anxious to learn new things and.to wid:n his horizon. He has some
intellectual ambitions, but the emphasis of his interests is in the

- practical ephere, He does not possess much originality, but he

identifies himself with well-selected patterns which may let him __
appear more sophisitcated than he actually is, He discards unneces-
@ary and superfluous material, but he may not discern the vital points .
in more intricate and unfamiliar problems unless properly pointed out
to him. He is a careful observer of small details which he correlates”
properly to their larger aspects within his familiar frame of reference.
He combines a certain amount of imagination with sober-mindedness

- and matter-of-factness, He tries to expedite his work, but he is not

likely to sacrifice accuracy to expediency, His critical faculties are
well developed and he evaluates by rather set standards. Also, he
fe not likely to voice his criticiam openly as he tends to avoid open
controversies. Within the area of his knowledge and experience, he
ean exercise initiative and deal with the overall picture of a project.
He has some understanding for mechanical functioning which may not
‘be fully trained and exploited. He can figure and calculate and he has
learned to think in larger terms and transactions. He is conservative
in his calculations and he will make every possible effort to get along
with the money and material at his disposal, Secretely, he would like to
spend money freely and play the role of a big shot. He has some
administrative abilities which he can exercise within a limited familiar
area, In relation te this, he can work out the blueprint of a plan and |
supervise ita proper axecution,. He is neat and orderly and he likes to
arrange evorything in a propor manner. Ho can take orders, follow

 

 

9 ARS eee pecan ey

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

 

o4-f069-t0126 ee

vw

a - @ SECRET @

mm Has

G-7984
27 March 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, DD/P/SR

ATTENTION t sR-6)

'. SUBJECT 3 Graphological Analysis (15637-X)

 

comer sern erm are”

     
 
  
 
  
   
    
  

REFERENCE 2 Memo of request, 2) March 1962

 
  
  
   
 
   
 

 

: a In response to reference. requ at, subject handwriting
was submitted to.a graphological analysis. A report of that
analysis ie attached. Graphological reports forwarded by TSD

“, are produced by a trained analyst available on.a contract. basis.
“TsD does not, within itself, possess the capability to. evaluate

. individual reporte and they a are transmitted without editing or
: comment. bie Fee es

 

 

; . 2. All physical evidence submitted by the requester is
attached. :

 

 
   

« Ki
RB/AER
“ Distribution: , oe
_ Orig. and ) - Addressee
RETURN TOCIA.
Background Use Only.

 

~ Do Not Reproduce
74-0000 ‘

- SECRET
#15637-X ae G-7984

prescribed rules and regulations and he will take care that people who
work for him do the.aame. In the execution of his tasks, he is exact,
conscientious and reliable. He is serious, methodical and systematic
im his approach. He can express himself in an adequate form, verbally

. a8 well as in writing. He is able to present his material in a concise
and understandable manner. He is not likely to say one word more
than would be absolutely necessary, which is one of his customary

__ Precautions. He is a diligent worker who pursues his aims persist-
>. @ntly and who does not rest until the last item of an assignment.is

a _completed. When necessary, he can mu ter a considerable amount

of patience. His analysing and synthesizing faculties are not particu-

larly pronounced, but he has a way of figuring out the implications of

. the things he sees and hears and usually he comes to the correct cone

clusions. Being rather unassuming in his manners, people may, at
times, underestimate his capabilities. He concentrates well on his |

- work and at the same time, takes in everything that'is. going on

* around him and that could be of special interest to him. His memory

:': functions precisely and he can reproduce easily remembered knowledge ©
: ond information,

  

   

 

; Emotionally, the writer is predominantly an. introverted type

'- who can join required extraverted professional and social activities
without much emotional participation. With the ald of his strong
capacity for identification, he blends in with his environment and
avoids attracting special attention. While-he is emotionally not very
mature and individualized, he is fairly well equilibrated, composed
and poised. He has his feelings and impulses under the strictest
Fational control and he is not likely to be carried away by them. His

. Ego-feelings are much stronger than most people who deal with him

would suspect. He is rather confident of himeelf and inwardly may

even consider himself quite superior to others, There is almost

‘some impertinence in hie inner attitude which helps him to assert

. himself and make his claims known in various indirect ways. He is

not quite as harmless as he may appear and he knows exactly what he

is after. He proceeds with great carefulness and precaution and he

* {9 quite clever in anticipating possible dangera. His self-defensive and

-elf-protective mechanisms are strongly developed and he is most
secretive about his affairs, He is not likely to confide completely in

anybedy. Unncticed, he keupa up a strong personal reserve preventing

thers from coming too close to him. He is ego-centered and somewhat

#elfish and he will not loge sight of his personal advantage in whatever

he is doing. He haa developed a colorless and consistent facade which

 

 

 

2. ae ener ner nn caren coerce ane eared tone ace a an AMM

 

   
 
 
  
 

 

cine vette nee eaten ee am NE one Mee rte Ca an RO ab nti ten nt tye enna a

 
  
 
 

 

~ SECRET

 
74-0000

 

 

 

- eamouflaging capacities (in a well-calculated and ekiliful manner) for

 

“strength and energy at present to support his general functioning

 

- become quite numb when he wants to. He is a rather peculiar person

 

" fessional field. Behind a harmless front, he is an emotionally complex
_ and shrewd individual who could very well be involved in some well- :

 

“his reaction and action pattern.

 

oa SECRET a

#35637-X -3- G-7984
may serve as a cover for various activities he wants to hide. If he
considers it necessary, he can be quite versatile and he is able to
rnake quick changes and switches. Ina closer relationship, he can
be rather enigmatic and he may surprise by unexpected actions and
geactions. He is guided by some ideological system (most likely of
collective nature) with ite fundamental ethical principles which he
follows meticulously on the surface. In reality, he usesa number of

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   

professional and social purposes. He is emotionally 0 detached, that
it te doubtful if he has any deep-going allegiance. Suggestions in line
with his self-centered interests could have a strong appeal for him’

and possibly could alter his motivations. At the same time, he should
be very difficult to approach, especially, as he is somewhat unpredic- _
table. He is emotionally rather strained, but he evidently has sufficient

TO rere ee oa

adequately. He possesses & rather strong willpower and sufficient
power of resistance to withstand physical ae well as emotional pressure,
Ho apparently has steeled himself in the course of- his life, and he can

qwho cante very pussiing at times.

Summary:

 

coveredup activities which are not part of his overt life. He is not
consistent and reliable and one must be prepared for sudden changes in

i

i

!
The writer is a competent and meticulous worker in his pro- ™ |

| :
Qualification: |
|

This report must be evaluated as qualified information because
the handwriting standards submitted for analysis are not adequate.

 

 
