74-0000

 

7

{
(:
é
te

 

 

 

SECRET —

Se He is completely loyal, well motivated, and honest.

6. Ido feel, however, that he has found his niche with the
type of work he is doing and would strongly recommend that, he be

retained on such an assignments I say this for I feel there will
always be a need for a so-called Disposal Unit, and at this point

Conein is one of three who are completely trained and well versed

"| im the peculiarities of this worke

%

 

 

 
[ior]

M1010

Snare ye nen poe ny

epmegrenteseees ano

 

 

' FROM : Chief of station, [+S

SUBJECT: GENERAL — Personnel

 

the purpose of including such statement in his security file, the

 peen directly under the supervision of the writer. It is the frank

      

“OFFICIAL DISPATCA spasm
DISPATCH NO: ‘om S57

nr
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

 

 
 
 

 

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

   
      
 
   

. a “15 April’ 1948
:; FEM gyes only (¥O wae

 

SPECIFIC— Jyecien Conein
REFERENCE -(uou-n2330
to - 7%

1. Reference your request for a statement on subject. office:

following is offereds : -
2. Conein has been known by the writer fora considerable period a
of time, for the past two years on a day~to~day basis, since he has*...

 

opinion of the writer that Conein has definitely settled down and is ~
most anxious for a continued career with this organization. His desire
to continue his career is endorsed by mes oo,

 

3. It is pointed out, however, that Conein does require more day- ae
to-day supervision at the moment than perhaps some other person than ee
myself would give hime However, @ue to this day-to-day supervision, its
ig felt that far more results have been obtained from the services of. —

Coneine . - - 4 “

 

“--"h. quite frankly, Conein had quite a reputation prior to his *

assignment with the German Mission, and in many quarters because of his
wartime activities, he was played up to as 4 hero and a free-wheel ©
operatore The continued back slapping and praise on the part of many” -
of our staff members did not help the situation. His flair for
exaggeration can be directly attributed to this pack Slapping and.

. ése things I have personally made clear to Conein on tw
occasions during the past year, and I must- say that he certainly has
profited by the discussions he has had with me on this part of his
charactere 7 .

  

 

   

SECRET

' CLASSIFICATION .

 
