 

 @- sere &

"f. A CIA report of 1961 lists him as a UN correspondent
then planning an unsponsored trip to East Germany, Poland,
Czechoslovakia, and Hungary.. Dutch corespondents said that they
had yet to see a story written by him. When he applied for
membership in the UN correspondents' association, he was unable
to produce a single clipping in support of the application. He ,
travels extensively. He has excellent contacts in all Commmist
countries including Cuba.

"ge The Hague Post of 15 Aprill951, with a nationwide
readership, characterized OLTMANS as an intimate friend of the
then President of Indonesia, SUKARNO, and as having tried for
five years to arrange contacts for SUKARNO in Holland.

“h. An FBI report of 24 November 1961 restates the above
and adds that he had been separated or divorced from his American
wife 18 months earlier because the is not a mant. He was living
with a male at the time of the report. :

"i. An FBI report of 1 February 1962 includes an interview
with the ex-wife, Frieda BIELING (she had remarried). She said
that her ex-husband and President SUKARNO were close friends and
that he wrote to SUKARNO at least once a week throughout their
marriage. Around 1957 she and OLTMANS lived at the Paramount Hotel >
New York, for a time. The Indonesian government paid their bill,
which was more than $300. She met SUKARNO through her husband in May 1959
in Copenhagen. At the time of the introduction SUKARNO cleared the
room of all advisors and bodyguards, then said to her, 'So you are
Frieda. Well, I am Sukie.' He told her ‘that he looked forward
to receiving his weekly messages from her busbant at he always
vead_them just before he went to sleep while he was in bed.! She said
that ten minutes after her wedding ceremony with OLTMANS was over ’
she was alone. Her father, she said, learned that OLTMANS had
police record for molesting young boys in Amsterdam. She obtained a
Mexican divorce in 1960. She”said that OLTMANS is at least
intellectually a Communist and believes that Communism is the
economic system of the future.

"3. 1365, 24 October 1966, says OLTMANS wrote pro-
LUMUMBA artictes in 1960, visited Cuba in 1962 and perhaps 1963,
developed friendly relations with Chicoms at fhe Hague and may
have visited China in 1964. In August 1966 he applied for a Chicom
visa at The Hague.

“k. £n FBI report of 12 May 1967 says that OLTMANS claimed
to have written for RAMPARTS an article about CIA in Indonesia.
No such article has been found."

 
