 

met with Hocha on ope af the above datea and aaked for
five sen froa the DRE including Rocha and Salyat to be
infiltrated into Cuba for intelligence purposes. Con-—
sidering the uilitia in Cuba was on full alert by this
date therefore greatly Seducing the chances of success

of such an attempt, Rocha tried to’get further details
Fogarding the operattona, but was only told thoy would
‘probably be used to direct artillery fire. Unable to

get more dotaila on what he considered a dangerous and
very risky nission he declined the request. He addod he
found it difficult to uederastand the seriousness of such
B request. de felt that be and Salvat as leaders of
their organization were not available for such missions
and that as head of his orgenizaticn, he did not feel ho
could send his men to their desth on auch @ vaguely de-
fined mission. Rocha continued that he had inforned his
men that although the D2Z, as an organizatioa, would not
take the responsibility for sanding them in, they were
free to go If they desired to go on their own. Mr. Holes
stated that, needless to say, proposals and raquests froea
both parties had to be mada in all seriousness.

12. wr. Holns asked if there was anything else

Rocha desired to diacuss. Rochs answared negatively and

leaye was taken.

 

 
 

feted

suggestions we may wish to discuss. Rocha frarkly adaitted

 

that the BRE felt: they needed the newsletter for their.
organization to be able to Ainfleeace public opinion tn the

0.8. To aatisfy his on curiesity, ir. Helms asked if

Sezator. Keating's figures wore based on "The Cuban Report”,

. Rocha ansvered in the affiraative. . 20

eee

10, Rocha then asked what the DRE could expect re-

‘®arting execution of military operations. wr. Helas in-

formed Recha that.when. they had a silitary plas to subeit
it. The Agency would study it and give ‘them an ansver,

Mr. Helms added that if an augver waa not forthcouing ia

@ reasonable length of tine, they ahould again ask for
the avsver from their contact. xr. Helos assured Rocha of
his contlauing personal interest ia this relationship end
he wanted Rocha to deal with’ hig Agency contadt in Miset
with this in mind, but he warned Bocha thre Blthough this
ig ise caso, he did not want the D&S running erd rung on
their contact on aattera they can geal with in Miami, Rocha
understood.

1 As be (Rocha) feared there may have beea certain
Bigurserstardings regarding & request by the “man io charge
in Rien on éither the 23rd or 24th of october, he felt it

necessary to set forth hie position. The "man fa charge™

  
 

 

 

oe

   

 

_ 3. Mr. Helus added thore was one other point of
utmost importance,and that wen, that if in the future the

DRE deaired or wanted to have a press conference or desired
to appear on TY, “Let us know sbout it". Mr. Helas etated
he didn't wast to tle their hands, and be. intended to deal -
with thom aa responsible wen, but, "Give us @ fair warding".
itr. Helms did not want tha DRE to thikk we desired to tell
thes what they can or can not do, but “he felt it was in
their interest to get our reaction on euch matters. Mr.
Belma added, "You, Mr. Rocba, are @ responsible man. [

ama rexponatble aan, Let's do business in a ezature manner.”

lr. Rocha fully agresd.

8. Mr. Recha thon introduced the eubject of "The Cuban
Report”, the DAK weekly newsletter. He said the newsletter
was sest to the preas, senators, congressmen, the White
House, and other people in the U.8. He wanted to know how
Mr, Relza felt about this publication, ur. Kelas wanted
to know if the Ageney received the intell before 1t was ~
printed in the newsletter. Hr. Rocha angered tint all
political and military information waa passed to the Agency
before it was printed in the newsletter, Mr. Helss ad~
mitted he hed not read the neveletter and that in the
geantine the DRE could continue tt. Ouce the matter is
studied in more detail, ir. Helms added wo may have some

  

 

 

 
 

74-0000 .

SECTE

DRE and in his absence either Manue) Balvat or Jose dase
would be the alternate pointe of contact.

~ - & ur, Helms stated there were tro elenenta. he 0

 

would like to clarity:
A. The system of kickbacks used by the DRE.
Rocha way not fantiiar with the term kickback but
after a short explanstion explained that the DRE
did sek their members to give a certain percentage
of their salary depending on what they can #ford
for a general fund from which the organization pays
for such itezs as the Agency does not Zinance. Ons
of these ‘iteus te publication of “The Cuban Report”,
certain work in latin America (not specified) for
hich the Agency will sot pay, and a very tmportant
itemytne mupport of some of their people and familinn.
coming out of Cuba. Rocha claimed this was voluntary,
1. . b, Financea-~ir. Helma desired to know 1f they
, kept sce System of books, ineludingjops expences
and salaries for their Latin Aserican operations,
and if so who kept their books. Rocha answered they.
did ksep books and sddéd they hed a full tine member
of the DRE who Was a trained accountant in charge of
thie departasnt of their organization. kr. Helms

  
74-0000

   

\ .
suggested that as “finances are a technical and
difficult matter: to: keep close tabs on, the Agency
could, if Rochia a0 desired, ‘help by providing a
finance tochaictanject, up a set of books for the
DRE, Rocha fully agreed with the merit of this
suggestion. ; :

_ , tT Hr. Helas again aseured Rocha and Laga that with :
regard to the future, he would let thea know as soon as
be hinself knew what it would be, Rocha aaked how long
kr. Kelas thought thie would be. wr. Molma stated thia
was somewhat of a hypothetical question but estimated
that the presont meetings, conversations, and negotiations
would possibly take aa long as a month. Er. Selus etated
he realized that military operattons and possibly sone of
their propaganda would depend on our future course, but
he wanted thes to understand that there will atwaya be need
for good, specific, detailed information which the DRE can
contribute, According to Mr. Holaa, ‘We need it; you can

* ; contribute it; we'll use it.” ir, Helay added he realized
there were riaka Lavolved in collecting information, bat
ho did not want Eocha to migunderstand tho value of it..
Mr. Helms algo cautioned Rocha and asa not to get impatient
over what may appear to be lack of use of their information,

but to give the Agency a chance to check it out.

  
 

2. Mr. Helms stated he was familiar with the DRE

eituation and desired to work out a slightly aifferent

way of doing business. He realized there have been ups

and downa ‘in the relationship and that the Agency vas

~ pot lily white. im abiding by many of its corimitnents, but

that many of tho changes were dus to factors beyond the
Agency's control, He continued there were bo decisions
as yet made by the U.8, Government regarding the future
handling of-the Castro probles. The primary items being
considered at the present tise both ims New York and
Washington were the rewoval of the misailes end bonbers
from Cuba ard on-site imspection. Hr. Holms fully re~
alized that the decisions which may come. about. at the con-_
elusion of these negotiations will not be decisions ac-
ceptable to the DRE. If a tixe cosa when the DRE feels
thetr courae of action is no longer compatible with 0.8.
policy, Ur. Kelas wanted tc make thia poiot clear, the
DRE should be frank and honest and so state it. He did
not want to be devious about our relationship; and he wanted
to develop the relationship “aa a reasonable colindoration™,
3. wr. Helus informed Mocha he waa changing the Ageneyr
contact for the DRE in Miami. He also stated the new cone

tact would be able to come to Mr. Hels for any clarificotios .

  

 
  

road

10470-10022)"

 

‘15 Noveaber 1962

MEXORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

“SUBIECT:

“@IWE AND PLACE:

ir, Helms? Conversation with Lute Fernacdez Rocha .
aod Jose Maria lasa of the DRE Regarding their
Organization's Relationship with the Agency .

“1500 hours, 13 November "1982, Mr. Heina’
Office.

PERSONS PRESENT: ur. Helus, Luis Fernandez Rocha, Jose

1.

_ one un ‘Sanchez (alias

Br. Rocha stated he wanted to mention two- things

before atarting the conversation with Hr. Helas:

Herald Hewepeper incident.

He was very sorry about the difficulties
“which may have been caused by the Alurt-Hiani

He desired to thank Hr. Helms for his

“deference” and expressed hie greatest spprecistion

for being given the opportunity to diecuss their

problem vith Hr. Relms. Mr. Helas replied that he

fully undargtocd and accepted the explanation about

tha newspaper article and he was happy to have the

opportunity to discuss the Agency's rélationship

with Mr. Roche’s group.

wee
vould

DO.NGT REPRODUCE
‘RETURN TO ClA

 
74-00000

 

~ SEeRET

 

needed regarding the relationship. As for a future
operational program for the DRE, Mr. Helms atated he pre-
sently did not. know what thie would bo. wr. Rocha stated

that in all honesty he could not. guarantee that under ail.

‘circumstances the DRE wold be able to continue the re~

lationship, for a change in U.8, policy toward cooxistence
would differ from what the DRE believes ia a duty to their
country and he as the Secretayy General to his men this
would mean a break in our relationship ag they felt they
Rust costinue fighting Castro in any form possiBle. He
did give Hr. Helas his word of honor he would inform his
contact or Hr. Helas when the DRE felt thoy could no longer
cooperate With the Agency becausa of the difference in what
they believed in and U.S. policy. Rocha claimed they were
anxious to cooperate with the Agency, and it was foolish

to think that without Agency support they could continue

‘their present level of activity. He io fact stated that 60

to 90 per cent of their activity would cease Af Agency funds
were discontinued, This would be auicide, and according to
Rocha this he did sot want provided a saticfactory arrange-
ment could be reached. ; ;

4. Mr, Lass asked what they could expect regarding
their future orientation and plans. “Rocha chimed in and

atated that this was one of the difficulties. under which

i. ,

    

 

 

 

 
 

they bad been operating; 1.@., not knowing what tho plans
were or what was expected of them. Be added that in
‘order to direct bis owe organization, he sust be aware of
"the dtreetion in which wervere moving before he could Bake
_the proper decisions in his orgenization, Mr. Helns

_ answered "We will tell you the truth and what the score

ia when we know it ourselves". He also warned them that
when this information is divulged, it would be in atrict-
eat confidence on a "FYI baais and sot for the press oF :
the rest of the exile cousunity. Mr. Reims added that on
this question he would be very hoaeat with them and either
tell them: a. I dont know; b. L won't tell you; «. 1°11

tell you, and give them the information they required for

_ proper orientetion. ur. Helas reiterated that regarding

this type of inforgatioa they must keep “sipped ww. Accerd-
wt .
ing to Mr. Heine thasthings get around in the Cuban exile

community was, needless to aay, & matter of soma concern

to his.
6. Regarding the new contact Mr. Helas stated ke
wanted to aelect a man who would and could smintain the
‘eollaboration he aad outlined, and would be helpful and

of assistance to the DRE. “Me alao stated that this contact

would be responsible to hin for the relationship. Mr.

Rocha stated he wanted to be the potnt of contact in the
eres :
Oued

 

 
