74-0000

 

sretalinee

 

(¢ (C Tanuary 1975

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United
States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles
had appeared in the public media, .

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as
the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of
NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several
occasions in March 1964, The United States Intelligence ‘Board was
also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning. the defection of
NOSENKO, On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet

in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials
officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in

‘the United States,
 

   
 
 
   
 
    
 

 

Yarly Ivanovich NOSENKO

 

  

eanthority g. granted under Section Toft:
_the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,’
1 approve and recommend for your zpproval the entrance
- of subject into the United States for permanent residence
-is in the interest of the national security

eand-essentiel to-the farthezence-of the national intelligence
- mission. ‘In: accordance with previous correspondence in
. Saction 7 cases,. itis understood that you. will present this
: matter to the ‘Attoriiay General fo: bis approval. -

 

  

  
    
 

   
       
  
   
 

    
 

Since his-defection in February 1964, th subject b bas
provided valuable. information to this Agency and he will
continue ta be of value in the future

 
   

 
    
  

ol : " ‘Sabject has bee investigated abroad and here over 2
period of five.years and has submitted to a technical inter—"
rogation. The questioa of bona fides is a continuing one and”
should any information be developed definitely disproving his =
bona fides, it shall’ he mada, available to your Service and the.
Attorney General. .

   

 

: G20e? 1
. : Sretaded Pom quaatc,
downgradiag and

dzclazsiticatsa

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

      

  

OGG 64-0903

   

    

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: : Director of Security.
or -.. SUBJEGT: - ae Parole Status of Defectors

a

“"R -: . 1, On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department

of Justice om the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred
upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.

. dt was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible

. _ for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

   

 

. “2, As you know,. a basic parole agreement was executed by the
_ Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955, After setting up

“. conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:

“ “After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agency will assume." -;

“3. esponsibility for care, supervision and control of a.kind and degree it
believes consistent with the internal ‘security needs of the United States”
during continuance of their parole status." This ‘means that the
responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary _

, to protect the internal security needs of the United States. ‘The word
“minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good
judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.’

: 78 .

see

 

3. The agreement further provides that upon-completion of the
parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if
internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from
this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such .
the A, Will inform? vice in advance of each proposed’

 

 

       
 
  

   

LAWRENCE R, HOUSTON
General Counsel
canna

 

 

 

   
  

ao

; eo ee SESE:

  

Bees

parole can be interpreted. to iInean’ parole to a specific
locale which would provide. Sone Justification for our _
detaining hin for questioning. It was then pointed out, -
however, that. if he said he wished to leave the country:
to yaturn to the Soviet Union, technically we would not .
be able to detain. hin- further, .In this event, we would

be faced with the: need to‘deport his quickly and quietly

and for this purpose the. immigration warrant of arrest.

and deportation was probably the best instrument,

 

. Se: Urs Katzenbach asked Mr. Foley to check into
this and Hr. Foley will in turn contact Mr. Houston.
Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA. —
Office of Security officials to get the background-of |

be Mr. Helus thanked. Mr. Kat zenbach for his assistance

and we departed amid some jovial banter with respect to

-™The Spy Who Came in Fros the Cold" about what we expected
to happen to him when he started to Clinb over that “wall'
in Berling: |_. _ . ot

A 7

David E. Murphy”
Chisz, SR Division

 

‘

their liaison with the INS on these matters. co,
 

 

 

 
74-00000

 

 

RESULTS

TERMINATION

COMMENTS

By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,
the Director of Security forwarded
two reports to the DDCI summarizing.
the results of the NOSENKO case to
that date. The reports are voluminous.
One was prepared by the Office of
Security and the other by the FBI.
Both reports conclude that NOSENKO
was a bona fide defector. A draft
memorandum attached to this file,
dated 21 October 1968 and prepared
by the CI Staff, raises question
regarding NOSENKO's bona fides

and challenges the above two reports.

NOSENKO continues under contract to

the Agency. He is brought to Washington ’
periodically to consult on matters
germane to his background and experience.
Various reports are available in the
files of the Office of Security which
detail financial aspects of this case.

No final accounting has been made since
the project continues.

(1) While the Office of Security files

do document the rationale for the original
confinement of NOSENKO, they do not
document the rationale for his continued
confinement over so long a period of time.
A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states
that various congressional staff officers
were briefed on NOSENKO and states that
concern for his safety, as well as con-
cern regarding his bona fides, prompted
the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document
a period in 1969 during which a mail
cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO

was allowed a pleasure trip to Florida.
During this trip, Agency personnel, with
apparent Headquarters approval, obtained
the services of prostitutes. This
apparently occurred on at least two
occasions.
[lod-totoe-t030g] =:
Lo , QeeTURN TO CIA ( :
yf ; accground Use Only .

. Bo Not Reproduce - C

 

. to payed
OLS LF bn

Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

 

IDENTIFICATION: NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet
KGB officer who defected in 1964 and
was subsequently involuntarily con-
fined in the U.S. by the Agency for
a period of approximately three years.

 

BACKGROUND : NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-
sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962
and subsequently defected. in. January
1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.S.
and after a period of relative freedom
. he was involuntarily confined in
a April 1964. From April 1964 to
‘ August 1965, -he was confined at an
Agency controlled site in Clinton, ;
Maryland. From August 1965 to
October 1967..NOSENKO was confined
aq Virginia. In October
1967, he was returned to the Washington
area, given increasing amounts of
freedom until he was given total free-
dom in April 1969. NOSENKO became a
U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO
‘was employed by the Agency as a
consultant in March 1969 and continues
under contract to date. His present
salary is $23,500 per year.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPROVAL : (1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO

against his will was discussed by

Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with
the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April
1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the
Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence
Houston, advised the Director of Security
by memorandum that such confinement was
proper (Tab 2).

(2) There are a series of lettérs from
the DDCI, DCI and others to various
agencies, including the Department of
_Justice and the White House, covering
the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing
awareness of these agencies of the
NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-

: ment were established by the Office of
ue ; Security (Tabs 4 § 5).

Up
14-00000

 

sep teeren

 

sae te teenemne

 

 

FILES

(C

Office of Security files. on NOSENKO
are maintained in the following
locations:

OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)
74-00000

 

   

L ae ‘2 April 1964 -

 
 
 
  
   

NEMORANDUM FOR RECORD” #.°°

  

¢

 

SUSJECT: Discussion with “Deputy Attorney. |
an _ General on Nosenko Case) 0.

    

   

 

 

 

2) Eyer elas,’ Mr. ‘Houston and Mr. Murphy met with ©
the Deputy Attorney General and nenbers of his staf£ to
discuss subject case, - Present from Hr, Katzenbach's-— <=
staff wera Messrs, Foley, Yeagley and Reis. *

 

 

ee Sar oe Helas explained the Nosenko case briefly ~ yee
and indicated that shortly we would be faced with what |
we at least considered to. be two problems on which we Ft

 

Pirst, we would seeon feel compelled to begin hostile
interrogation of Nosenko in order to arrive at the truth

with respect to his aission for the KGB and we wondered cio
0 : what the’ legal position would be in circumstances in | ”
' ; which we detained Nosenko against his will for this pure —
-". pose. Second, we would have to be ready after determin- .
. : ing. that we could obtain no additional information £romn °°

. Nosenko to deport him. We had thought of taking him to...

; - Germany. and transferring hin to Soviat custody in Borlin...”
where this has been done a number of times in the past.

3. There was soae discussion of whether deportation:
to another country wight be a consideration. Mr. Hales
explained we would probably face publicity probleas in
deportiag to a third country of the kind we would en- _
counter if ho were free in the U. S. Nr.’ elms noted
there were many itens of.information which we and the. .
- FBI realize are of no Significance because of the file
holdings»we have but which an unscrupulous Newspaper man
could use to create sischie£s, This aspect was then dropped
and it was the consensus. that Berlin was probably the best
placs, . : : :

 

 

4. The question of the basis for detention was again
raised and related by Mr. Foley to the conditions under
which Nosenko is in this coumtry. He is here as an “ex~
clusion and parole case" which means he has not been
admitted and has been paroled to the Agency which is
responsible for him while he is in this country. This

 
