14-0000

 

  
 

 

. ( : , . o URN TO ClA
) , 7 BEN d Use Only

SECRET. Cemnpiot Reproduce
hae

 

4, Those omployses veferred to aro 3 Mr. Herman

a

;

i Edward XIMSBY who was released 20 Septembe>1962 after his
i services ware declared no longs? regnired and

ho wag terminated on 12 July 1962 for the sams

 

 

 

reason.

5. In seeking the aasistanes of your office, you will

.
i also find attached in individually named envelopes availabls
: I he - ‘handwriting specimens of Br. RIMSEY and a) it.
|

mould be appreciated if these pozsens bandwriting won oF.
compared with the handyrittes notation addresged to Mr. HELMS.
Isis of cousae realized that such an analysis based on the Mette .
pp comparative material avaiishle wid] prov2 to bs difficult bat your
ih... we, @fforts and evalnations will be apy sinted.

 

  

t 6, Since the attached handwriting specimens are origi-
- nats from Security asd Personnel Miles, we would epprecinie upes
complation of your ased for thern that they te retarned to this :

Office,

t+

Pani PF. Gaynor

JaMJ ox

 
 

‘og 10250-10086 . .

- , REVERE > et

SECRET Background Uss .

LP Not Reproducs

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiof, TSD/DD/P 3 Augaat 1965

ATTENTION : Authentication Branch
- . . . Mr. Jan Beck i

 

VIA 0. : Gocurity Officer - :
~ FROM : Chied, Security Research Stafi{Os

i SUBJECT : Unknown Subject
TES" uathor of Anonymona Lettes

A, Recently the attached anonymous lettos wag received
by the Depaty Director, Mr. HELMS. Unfortunately ths envelope,
which presumably the lotier was delivered in was destroyed oF
leg}. Mr. HELMS’ secretary who has had eceasion to obsesve
ether such questionadis correspondence directed to Mr. HELMS:

in the past, though? it a matter for the Office of Security to ginvesti-
pats and if possible through apscialised personne! of the Technical oe
Services SMyision, attempt to analyse tha handwriting a5 a means mo
of passibly identifying the author.

 

2. This suggestion is of courses quite valid, consequentiy
after conducting certain research and discussing the matter with
the Special Activities Stafi/Office of Personnel, two ‘Surplus
Employees | {7901's} wore considered as possibilitics a5 the asthor
of the aforementioned anonymous letter.

3, However, in all fairness it is to be ampbasised that
such teatative consideration is at this time based on purely ciz-
cumstantial and coincidental factors--namely in ths firot instance
erat one individual was, according to the Special Activities Stafs,
an applicant for tha Peace Corps about a year 8go and in the
eecond instances that the other individual had in Auguat 1964 used
the dame identifying title as that appearing onthe bettem of the
atiachment.

GROUP 4

 
 
 
 

 

   

ncRNA I NA at NAL Ute A ~

( (
7 ° RETA
Background Use wes
deZoNet Reproduce

  

os can
a . , ~/ .
SRE ELLOS Ss aN

bw nck acc tian “te

   

ne ae nee we tine etnaiabien innit aome ea

 

 

 

  
  
