   

ATL 4-75
44 January 1975

a

5. Wa did learn that the friend whom Williamson deseribed as a
business consultant. “a kind of a high-finance nan involved in
setting up corporations,” who often travels abroad, had been approached
by soweone "locally, i.e., in the Carrollton-Weat Atlanta area
(Carrollton 1s about 40 milea west of Atlanta). “The friend wag said to
be "a geod friend, a rellabde man, a college graduate, an estaklished
ran in the community. According to Williamson, the friend was
approached because of the nature of his work te perform some sort of *
task for the group, and he “knew that semathing was wrong.’ The friend
then learned all he could about the planned operation and eventually
talked with Williamson about it. The friend told Williamaen that the
gun-running operation had been going on for about a yaar.

6. At one point Williamson said that hia friend told him that

“the peopla involved in this thing won't hesitate to kill hin (the
friend) and he knows that he's going to nave to leave thia part of the
couatry when it comes to light.'' Willdameon told ua: “I feel ike I'va-
got this nan's life in my hands and I don’t want to do anything to
jeopardize his life, because I know him and hia family and ali.” .
Williamson suggested that wa meat his friend at the Capea and Sword Motel
restaurant on I-20, near Siz Flags Over Georgia, west of Atlanta, and
he said that the two of thea had already talked of this as a good
meeting place. We told Williiansen that we would be glad to weet with
his friend but firat we would dike for his friend to give ue a call se
that we may talk with him. We gave our office phone wumber to
WiLiianson. As of tha writing of this memorandum, we have hed no eal.

7. From the information that Willdaason vrovided, ¢.3., location
vf peopla involved, an attempt to meet with an Agency representative
{to possibly get us involved merely by association), ws believa that mich
of the subatance of the matter could ba the sama ag that which was. :
teperted grom this office to O58 as related by Stephen Van Cleave
regarding Mitch Wexbell, et al. (See ATL-39-74, 28 February 1974,
Resume of Contacts with Stephen Van Cleave; ATL-53~-74, 9 April 1974, .
Stephea Van Cleave.) Hiteh Warbell’s operation, which has been
deseribed locally as a "machine-gun factory,” ia locatad at Powder Springs,
Georgia, sbout ten miles north of the I-20 Capa and Sword Motel. At soy
rate, Mr, Williamson's friend has been given the opportunity to conbaer Lisi
and we are awaiting his call. :

JOEN R, FETERSON

 

ec: Offdee of Chief, RCD
oss
Sarvices

 

 

 

82 or CL BY 019650

oeGneT

 
 

104-10074-10072| -

ww ° . -
ba wt

 

ATL-4-75
. 14 January 1975
MENORASDUN YOR RECORD

John RK. Peterson
Atlanta Reaident Office

Response to Call~in to Agency Meadquarters/Initial Contact (Yelephene)
with Johan Danial Willtanson, Carrollton, Georgia

1. On 7 January 1975 Albert $. Coleman of tha Washington Field
= us to pass on information that he had juat been given by
DCD Headquarters, regarding a call received by the Agancy
duty officer en New Year's Eva from one John Danial Williamson of
Carrellton, Georgia. Silliamaen identified himself as a Methodist
minister and gave his address as Route #2, Box 3644, Carrolitoa,
Georgia, Phone: (404) 954-8443.

 

2. Ia his call to Agency Headquarters, Williamson said that he had a
fixciend who had infersation on the impending overthrow of a foreign sovern-
ment. The information regarded illegal shipment ef arma from the US to
the foreign country. Williamson said that his friend had wanted to try te)
sell the iaformation to the foreign country concerued but that when the
friend told Williamson about it Williamson prevailed on kim to let hin
(Williamson) bring it to the attention of the proper government agency,
resulting in his call to our headquarters on New Year's Eve. Williamson

- asked that aemeone froa the Agency ba put in contact with him.

3, On the afternoon of 7 Jarmary 1975, after verifying through the
phone operator thar Williamaon was listed in the Carroliten area (he
aektualily lives at Roopville, Georgia, on Tyus Road, but the Reopville
phones are handled under the Carrollton exchange}, We called bis number.
va were informed by a young male voice, apparenrly his son, that Williamson
was indeed a Methodist minister, but that he taught school every day during
the week in the high school at Tranklin, Georgia, except on Saturdays when
he worked oll day at a hardwaye store at Rockmart, Georgia. We wera told —
that he praached on Sunday worniags, We were not told what he does on
Sunday afterneons. Since he was not to be at home until after: 5 } PH, we
called him. from our own home that sore evening. ;

a

4. Williamson aeemed to ba expecting our call although wa had x
adentified ourselves during the earlier call. Me save ua essentially
sana lafermation furnished during hia New Year's Eve call, Ha aadd that
the frtend about whom he called is a “former parishioner and lives in the
Carroliton area.” Ue preferred not ta previde us with the friend's vane
and address. The informacion, however—that which we were abla to
aacertain--~soundad on the up-and-up, as far ag Me. Willdawsoa's part in ic
was concerned, for be seemed to be a sincere and weil intentioned individ-
ual. When we eried to at least learn the name of the foreign country
duvelved, Willdemson said that his friend vould act sive hia that
information,

 
