ce;

Concern 4: Carriage returns in the Comments field

CONFIDENTIAL . -

interpretation of what the electronic data is to the hard copy, eg, what the

“referred” marking means, It seems that the providing of the interim

IdAids for these documents in the process of coordination may have

complicated the issue. {A clear case of too much openness!) The

difficulty also may be NARAs since we presumed that the provided =~

documents would be inter-filed in the basic file, - a

Recommendation: Reprogram to take out the “referred markings. Barry
tells me that the coordination is almost completed and by the time that the
Board gets ready to lock at documents the “trailing” coordinations will be
complete.

- Re ans Ww % clogs. “wP
Mr. Marwall is concerned that these superfluous digital marks would *

complicate NARA’s life. The carriage returns are a natural input reaction
in the typing of narrative text in the Comments field.

Recommendation: Program to remove the carriage returns when thay 4
occur in the Comments field. :

CONFIDENTIAL
104-10331-10309

 

CONFIDENTIAL
we F
NOTE FOR: John F. Pereira @ DA
FROM:
DATE: 02/20/95 11:33:42 AM
SUBJECT: {dAids

. ca
As you may remember the Beard, ie, David Marwell, teok issue on several counts with the Id Aids and the disks that we
recently provided. Their concerns, 4.in number, and my recommendations te remedy those concerns are listed below. Some of their
concerns can be relieved, some may not. The larger issue is the amount of resources that may be needed to make the kinds of
adjustments they require. Initially we are talking about the 11 Oswald boxes. The-remainder of the file will be harder to adjust ‘because
of the large amount of documents/idAids, because the file is not in its original form (3rd Agency, HSCA) and because the audit is not
completed (IdAids matched to documents in file). There is also the lurking possibility that to provide t the missing data we may be forced to
access the file data manually. .
Concern 1: Classification Status

The original classification status of the document was not provided on the =" .
idAid. This issue is not a new one, it has been discussed before with . NARA. Fick data recorded on
the Id Aid reflects the fratus of the IdAid andfor the version of the document currently at NARA-- namely
all are =

Unclassified. The data is in. our file, however, since it was not a required : ~

field at input there may be instances where the field is blank. dows Le ra “"

: cost panini dsl

Recommendation: Have(Cyndé query for blanks in the field to determine
if there are a lot of blanks and, if the numbers are right, make the program
change. If the numbers are not right, ie, large number of blanks in this
field, we need to regroup.

Concern 2: Non Matching Hard Copy IdAid and Digital Id Aid
Mr. Marwoll produced 2 versions of the same index record - 1 from the »
hard copy (Aid collection we provided and one from the disks we
provided. | have talked to(Cynde\phout this and she has checked the ?
program and firmly believes it to be impossible to have 2 versions of the
same record. | will talk toJim’on Tuesday but | view this as a human
error. | will also call NARA and ask them to, pull this record for
compatison. My searches have produced no duplicates.

Recommendation: Talk to Mr. Marwell again to find out exactly how he
found the duplicate record and if more were discovered. Depending on
his reply | would suggest that this be categorized as a human error.

Concern 3: “Referred ” Documents having a classification status
In his manipulation of the disk data Mr. Marwell discovered numerous
instances where a document was marked for referral{coordination and
_ also carried a classification status, eg, RIF, SAN, DIF. He reasons that if
a document i is referred it should carry a "P" for Pend ing in the
i ation status field. (Cynde informs me that the program inserts a
= : king when the document originator is anything but CIA. This
marking W was as not t inserted by the indes dexers but by the program. The theory
being that if the document was not CIA it was/is coordinated. [t was also
reasoned that if/when the document had completed its coordination run it
‘was provided ta NARA with an appropriate IdAid. The original August
release included IdAids for those documents pending coordination - the
\dAids appropriately stamped with “Pending Coordination” - but no
documents were attached, The difficulty here is a difference in

   

CONFIDENTIAL
