 

 

testimony, including the related documents, that are declassi-

_ fied. We undertook to prepare a package and transmit it to

Mr.’ Helms' attorney. I discussed this, with Mr. Rininger of
OGC today, since OGC is in contact with Mr. Helms' attorney.

~ a SF a oe
PN a If

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig. - OLC/Subject

‘= OLC/Chrono

- IG
- OGC (Rininger)
SA/DDCI
- Mr. Hawkins (LA Division)
- Mr. Sturbitts (LA Division)
- (CI Staff)
- Mr. Shepanek (PCS/LOC)

Fed fet fet food fad ak Jest ed
1

   
 

fOd-10a2240140

a, *

 

ee

fe # 4 7 58H |

19 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
; SUBJECT : ‘Meeting with HSCA Staff Representatives

ast night at 2000 hours Messrs. Hawkins, Sturbitts,
ct Shepanek, Holmes, Joannides and the undersigned
met wi essrs.. Blakey and Goldsmith of the HSCA staff...
The purpose was to consider the declassification of cer-
tain materials for use in Mr. Helms' testimony in public
hearings on- Friday, 22 September.

2. <A number of questions were resolved at the time
with a few remaining to be left over for today. One of the’
unresolved issues was declassification of certain sections
of the 1967 IG report on plotting against Castro. We did
not present the question of Agency policy against release
of IG reports, it being felt this would serve as a red
flag. We stated instead, that the report was written in
such detail that, blanket declassification would cause
extensive deletions. I pointed out that when the question
arose with the Church Committee it did not do so in the
context of public hearings. Instead, the Committee wrote
the report with the things that it wanted to say and we
addressed those issues on a point-by-point basis. We
asked that they tell us what specific things they would
like declassified, which we could address more easily,
noting that much of the substantive content of the IG
report had found its. way into the Church Committee Report.
Mr. Goldsmith said that he could narrow this down to some
ten or so pages, and we postponed further discussion until

today.

3. Mr. Blakey said that Mr. Helms' attorney wanted
to be advised by the Agency of those sections of his
att

ogc tt

    
