 

1

ra

10 -

* URDER:OADED AMMUNITION, ALMOST FULL DARE, ore

         
     
  
    

'Coutd target more | is
‘.clearig through Peep
| sight Gat mo rounds mo
: were fired.

Could age target Rid
“elearlp vith 1.3%

peepee

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
    

  

SIGHT poo: |

 

    

 

¢ RANGE HO, OF ROUNDS JO. OF HITS wontzowraL SPREAD vemareat snap REMARKS
“78 yde. 10 . : Poop nigat u useless 7
Lo : ! —
', BS gyda, 10 * couta targets out ta
oo4 ; -» 800 is with filtered.
yok . scope at atart of a
Bo . . shail could aot ses. |
2 @BERLOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN BIGHT HOOD, FULL DARK: ge oT

RANGE NO, OF ROUNDS KO, OF HITS - pptanxs . \ ; 2

28 yde. 10 s (scattered) Target in total darkness, rain cloud overhead, inter.

o tet . m&ttant lightning flashes gave & wague. awareness ot

: & ve vey os target location, oy ; |

ve -

 

  

 
 

 

Yee meee e cette mes Kettes s eiaaR NE AFF on ain Soa ou caamMRER anal

 

 
  
  
  

 

:. that the scope was superior to either the peep sight or open aight

" point of the ability for a listener to discriminate a ailencer

4
oun y

S. Teste were conducted in the evening to determine the degree
of usefulness of the sight in poor light. In this respect a 22
Caliber Hi-Standard pistol with folding shoulder stock and Bushnell
1.3X Phantom scope wag tested in comparison, The scope was
equipped with yellow filtere to brighten the sight picture for
low light level use. It wags the opinion of both teat personnel

fos as long as their was some illumination on the silhouette
targets. Once the light failed the scope was completely useless
although the undersigned could still discern targets with the naked
eye out to 50 yds, All actual shooting was done with the open

' sight and some difficulty was experienced in hitting the targets

at ranges of 100 yds. or sore even at dusk. The closer targets
could be easily hit up until it becass too dark to see them at all.
4 large rain cloud moving from behind the firing position gradually

. @bscured all available light. For the final shooting at 25 yds.

eccasional lightning flashes gave only a vague awareness of the

, target location. At no time during the night trials was there an
puzzle flash visible from the undér loaded ammunition and suzzle

silencer combinations. 6 gaa por was @ Off position
uring the day rials was turned on at night but no flash was

visible at the breech. A fine white cloud of cream of wheat
powder was visible in front of the suzzle at alzost full darkness
but could not be seen sore than 30 feet avay. -

6. Listener trials were conducted the following day to deter-
gine how far away an alert listener could discern the mechanical

 

‘noise of the mechanisn and that of the round being fired. Mr.

walked away downwind at an sagle of 90 degrees to the line of fire
and stopped to listen every 25 paces. The undersigned fir

_ Single rounds, (hand actuating the sechanise) each time Kr.
‘omy Otopped. At 325 paces, or roughly 375 yds., Er.| sj reported. _,.
he could still hear the mechanisms being actuated, the round being.

fired, and the bullet striking a concrete Pillar 200 yds. down-
range, However, he stared that he might not have noticed the sound
at that range had he not been listening for it specifically, :

* 7, One of the major causes for concern at the etart of the
testa was that the cream of wheat filler might clog the silencer
ang render it ineffective. A total of 200 rounds vere fired with
the silencer in place and the noise level did seem to be higher at

, the finish of the second day. (Round numbera 180 to 200 were the .

ones expended during the previously mentioned listener trials).
Jnuspection of the silencer at a later date revealed considerable
cream of wheat residue in the screening. Sound level measurements
wade in the AMP sound lab showed that while the total noise level

". wag no higher, the duration was relatively longer, This would ;
. make the silencer seen louder to sear by observers but not increase —

the range at which it could be heard. However, from a stand-

being fired from random noise, the longer duration gives hin a
better chance to recognize what he hears.

ae

se

 

  

 
 

 

04-40216-10234

‘

 

7,

rag mT SECT ay AsH-/

i Jaly 1964
MEMDRANDUY FOR THE RECORD .
SUBJECT: Test of Open Sight Hood for 7.62na Bolgium (PAL) Rifle

REYERENCE: A) Memo for Red. dated 25 May 1964, Subject: fWar,-

BSilencers/Sights, froa C/WH/SA/MOB/PE .
pee. B) Mewo for Rcd. dated 10 June 1964, Subject: Teste

cot an Of Modified Sighte for 7,63 Belgium (FAL) Rifle

On 15 and 16 Juse 19 the undersigned and Mr,

TSD/SDB went to to test an open sight hood for

; eT. Belgium (FAL) Rifle developed in answer to Ref. A.

i The Modified Willians peep sight developed previously in answer

i to Ref. 4 and reported on in Ref. B. proved unsatisfactory to the
: ' requester, The snap-on sight hood was then developed on a quick

. reaction basis to be simpler to install and easier to use than

+ .,, - She Uilliana sight, In addition somo improved underloaded 7.62em

: . HATO rounds having @oft. annealed cases and cream of wheat filler

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
|

. _,. Were tested for performance, These vere developed in hopes of
{oowehsesrresting the erratic. eammésion psrforasace, 20hed. 4a. Raf Pe ssapepiant.
i +
f

{

‘ 8. The open Bight hood snaps over the existing reer eight
_ Of the PAL rifle, and in theory makes shooting in poor light or

 

Bt Bight oasier. It can be used with either standard faetory
i.-1.- + leads or the underloaded assunition in conjunction with the muzzle
:. ‘attachment silencer, The notch on the rear eight hood is "DU" shaped
 . amd raised to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the lov
’  .. veleeity ammunition. The hood is easily detached making the con-
* wentional peep sight evailable any time it is desired, -.

i
~~ 3. . The attached data sheet suznarizes the test resulta, It.

was found that some familiarization vas necessary to get used to
2 thd open sight. Under ideal conditions the sight vas as easy to :
- Sse as the peep sight although it was pore difficult to maintain %
uniform vertical grouping. The relationship between the eye and
. Wear Bight was found to be very critical, 4 the tests proceeded - .
& change was noted in the point of impact we. point of aim which was |

  
  
   
   
   

 

thought to be due to a change in sight picture on the part ef the
undergigned, : _

. 4. The improved amuunition was found to be quite consistant :
in performance. The use of cream of wheat filler to tamp the powder at
charge against the primer was ag attezpt to get mors even ignition <
eth correspondingly improved accuracy, The expended cartridge
_ C8868 Were checked periodically and no evidence vas.found of the: ~- |. =
, Soft annealed cases not expanding properly. During the tests the ~
2 .; wifle and ammunition combination iastilled a degree of confidence
z ia the undersigned

 

 

Bot present in the previous teste. ;

      
 

SECRET
74-00000

 

ry

8. On 19 June 1964, the undersigned went to the warehouse
at Franconia to try to fit the sight hood to other 7.65mm FAL
rifles, It was suspected that the fit might be a problem when it
. an Would not fit over the rear sights of three FAL rifles at Isolation.
Although it was later determined that the three rifles. vere ea...
@iffgerent lot and say therefore have different tolerances on the — *
rear sight casting, it was felt that further checking was necessary.
Mine PAL rifles from the game lot as those obtained by WH/SA/MOB/ PY
were unpackaged and the sight hood tried om the rear sight. Of
the nine, two were perfect fits and the other seven too thick .
for the hood to fit. This created a problem in that the sight
hoods bad to fit rifles which for operational reasons could not be
measured before hand to determine the thickness of the rear sight
blade. Providing adjustment in the slot of the sight hood vould
have complicated the fixture to the point where it could becoze
operationally unsuitable. Therefore it was determined that the
best solution was to provide several small files with the hoods.
The peep sight on the rifles, a soft casting, was found to be
‘ ‘quite easy to file. In most cases it would be necessary only to
file several thousandths to obtain a proper fit. This precedure
__ was explained to C/WH/SA/KOB/Fil and he stated that it vould be coe
~ aeceptable. : . Oo.
|

i C8.

cme

. On 24 June 1964, three open sight hocds with accessories
© C/WH/SA/MOB/PH. In addition, 400 rounds of isproved under-
loaded ammunition with cream of wheat filler were provided as a

/ veplacenont for the original 400 underloaded rounds.

+e MBE tie ee

& fro crane of two files and a small screwdriver were turned over
t

 
   

cy 10. On 29 June 1964, it was discovered that a scope was availab]
fér the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle (Sniper Version) and in the Agency

supply syetem. Steps are being taken to obtain a scope for “
evaluation, ‘The results will be forwarded to C/#H/SA/MOB. :

 

 

aT a ee

cee woth lacbdicadieattesttbtet. $8 tecd cease
ya-oo009

 

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
        
  
       

na
STANDARD VELOCITY AMMUNITION, DAYLIGET:

+ POINT OF 1
RANGE RAMP BETTING BiGRT TPR - (RELATIVE 70 Pou OF AN
. an
100 yds, Ko, 2 ' Peap (- On
100 yds, = No. 3 Peap ;- On
100 yda, No. 3 _ Open 34" high aa
100 yds, No. 8 ” Opean Hoot. 26” high .
4 Ts

  

{ “GRLOADED AMSIUNITION, OPEN s10RT, OOD, DAYLIGHT: B #
RORIZONTAL

POINT OP IMPACT
RANGE RAMP SETTING quar TO POINT oF. am SPREAD SPREAD
23 yda, Ro. 3 Ki nigh,
25 yds, Ro. 6 3° low } . .
$0 yds, No, 6 On ¥
75 ydu, Ko, 6 4" loft; 4" low

100 yds, Full Elevation 6" left, 8" low

100 ydx, Full Elevation On (Dize. Shooter)

200 yds, Full Blevation 8" left, 8" low

123 yds, Mo 2 8" lefg, 18° low

125 yds, Full Blevatiog . On (Changed Sight, Picture)

 
 

5 (2 pissed
target) " ;

 

180 yds, Bull Blevatios ‘On (Cagaged Bight Picture)

. ¥
» yds, Pull Blevation 6” low:(Changed Bight Pic-
. & ture)
