74-00000

 

“pi

_seportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is

oSGuEl

 
 
 
 

BAST, REDEX, and Wiltiam. TURNER of RAMPARTS

¥ai Goring January 1967,

 
 
 
 
 
 

He explained he had te have new cards pristed,

authored an article in the November 1966 issué of
Magazine in which he describes alleged wir
veptitices antry, etc., performed by him while the
Sol Stern, whem he claimed toe represent, is asst:
managing editor of RAMPARTS Magazine.

Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exile

(The foregoing has attempted te detail the contact of NOVEL
with FURR, FURR's connection with BAST, and a possible
connection between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS,
The following indicates the only CIA tavelvement in the chain
which might be exploited in scbsequent attempts te link CIA
to the entire affair in

“ .

now ‘ fnemorandam to the

a: ae ee /

On 29 April 1963, Robert I en, then Chief, WE/3 and her
“Sy

f .
’ .
| 104-40132-10830
Se so RETURN TO GIA
tos Background Ueo Only

Oo Nea Regasuce

 

   

A. NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the

Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27

March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day onthe . -
case under investigation by Garrison, According to the press
reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination
conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR. In statements :
to the press, FURR indicated there was no indication of :
deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a
“fraud, _ |

  
 

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Golumbia policeridn and now .
a private detective, is a self-proclaimed polygraph “expert ~ ~~~ -
and sound device epecialist, He has received publicity in the 1
past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr. |
in the St. Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he
discovered listening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine.
In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D. C.
firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was i
attempting to aell electronic equipment to Communist China via
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with ‘
FURR in 1962 toa see equipment offered for sale by FURR. }

 

C, Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained
neteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously
unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the i
Bobby Baker case, He is known to operate at least four :
NE enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a
private detective agency; 2) REDEX VIETNAM, ] INC., a firm
“which imports a variety of commiodities ranging from liquor to
automobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S. -recruited :
"go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is ‘planniag; 3) REDEX :
\) _ CORP., a firm which sells almost anything ¢ body abroad, :
other than South Vietnam; and 4) CONSCLIDATED MAMENTS, :
INC,, 2 firm which sells small arme to foreign governments and
private individuals abroad, BAST also produces and distributes
both positive 2udio and counteraudio devices in the U.S. and

 
74-0000

' WH/6 in which he documented e t

27 April 1963, with Raymorw GNOL, an anti-Duvalier
. exile from Haiti, Inthe. memofandin ihe relates that the

! conversation took place in the.

whom Owen had met threagh a neighbor, Lloyd FURR.

_ The memorandum relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,
i political stance, etc. Reported as significant by Owen ie s
: statement by BAST that the following week BAST would be
| sending a shipload of arms te a CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
in the Dominican Republic. Owen noted: “Raymond

CASSAGNOL gives appearance of thinking well of Richard

| Y BAST. According to CASSAGNOL, hie brother, Jacques:
i i alse knews BAST and respecte him. Thus BAST, in spite
certain personal shoxtcomings from the intelligence standpoint,
: dees represent an established channel to at least one segment
: of the Haitian oppesitien to Devalier, Since according to his
own statement, BAST is supplying arms te CASSAGNOL's
i groups, further transactions of this type via BAST presumably
| would not be difficult to arrange.“ He also provided g detailed
| information on what he learned of BAST, noting thet BAST had
! mestioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that
: ®“CIA double-crogsed them" (the Dominicans).

   
 

An FRI repert on BAST dated 19 June 1963 that Owen,
"Foreign Service Reserve Officer, USDS"
reported 16 May 1963 his attendance at dinner at BAST's home
! on 27 April 1963. Owen told ef his meeting with CASSAGNOL,
BAST's intention to sell arms to the Dominican Republic and
Haitian exiles, etc, He also reports that an 7 May 1963, BAST
i asked him te perform some translation work. The translation,
; he stated, related to BAST giving a pewer of attorney to one
. X lails MORENO Martines of the Dominican Republic to prepare
: documentation fer legal establiehment of REDEX CORPORATION,
C POR A, a DR branch of BAST's firm, According to Owen,
| 40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National
Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and an
individual well-connected with Dominican Republic police and
intelligence groups. BAST is alse moted te have teld Owen
ef an offer BAST had made to “bug“ the office of the Deminican

Baal

 
 

 

SEGRET
aM

q
ee ae ee

 

Secretary of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan
Bosch, BAST did not indicate to Owen if had performed
the job.

(There is no record of e clearance having been issued for
utilization of Richard L, BAST or REDEX, )}

4
SEGRET
