 

~

sam, oH,

If the decision were mine,
eneration ciailiar to the one usang AMBIDLY-1. We should
asa Ray to put together a list of people whom he would select
for certain government positions if Castro were overthrown.
It should not take long fur one to determine the type of an.
administration Ray would have.
iists could be checked to determine his political feelings
and his feelings toward the United States. This is important.

J] would suggest running an

Each of the individuals he

In any case I would support him if for no other reason
determination,
political ambitions.

than to test his
knowledge of his

strength and to gain further

O23
  

$04 AOt7O10174)

ee

 

20 September 1905 -

MEMORANDUM POR: Beary Hecksher

lo regret that Iowasn’t able to spend more time on
this case, interesting as it was. I do have some reservations, .
however, in expressing an opinion on Ray since the files are
not complete and extensive research should be undertaken
first; but even with this reservation I am convinced that one
can see the picture clearly of the hesitation on the part of
this Agency to support Ray. When support was offered it was
always with some cond:tion, one of which was for Ray to join
the FRD, Although Ray vss a supporter of Cuban-exile
unification, he was not xoing to be forced into Joining the

FRD with threats of son-support.

As you know, Say was Minister of Public Yorks for Castro
until he resigned his rest in August 14553. He hightailed it
into the Escambray Mountains where he began the now unsuccessful
fight to unseat Cestra. Through internediaries, Ray had
asked the Havana Stataon for military assistance, but in
almost every instance he was denied this aad. I say almost
simpty because the file is not clear on whether we condescended

and dropped supplies,

Ray's political rchilosophy is somewhat equivocal, but '
by-and-large he is strongly for a democratic system of
government and fer strong economic and social reforms. He
reportedly would respect individual liberties and a
representative foverrnent, He would reportedly maintain close
ties with the United States and remove Communism from Cuba.
Unitke Castro, there ts nothing in Ray's background to suggest
that he is a Communist or sympathizer. A new government in
Cuba, especially one whose aim is to rid Cuba of Communisa,
will, without question, ask the United States for econonic
assistance, I tend ta doubt if we will provide this assistance
without some caveat and the question remains then whether Ray
would bo willing to accept conditions to United States aid.
I think he will for he will soon realize that without it he
will have no alternative but. to turn to the Soviet Union and

 

.-_L_doubt if he will be wilting to continue the economic and

social chaos now so prevalent in Cuba.

fi .
. ’

Oe Ray ble
| , ae’

/ RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only .
Do Not Reproduce

 
