74-00000

 

4. This menorandum. has not been completely researched.

It is, suggested, how:ver, that you forward it with your memorandum

of 11 June’ 1969 to ¥: mur office so" that this matter may be placed in

: perspective.

5. ‘I would eppreciate notification. when you forward your
memorandum to you ‘Headquarters. as I would like to furmish a
‘copy: simultaneously along with my: ‘analysis. of the situation. I
appreciate your pronptness in ‘bringing. the. YARONA f GOVEA

us contact. t-to m™y attention.

: Anthony R. PONGHAY
Chief of Station, ‘WH/Miami.

Attachment: a/s

 
74-00000

 

   
 

a ‘

i) No commeit. - Nicolas GU LLEN is

a well-knovw: Mexican Cominiinist poet.

2. Ifyou read the foregoing analysis in the light of Mr.
VARONA's file, I believe you will clearly ascertain that we
put little, if any, c:mfidence in any statements made by Mr.
VARONA. We are deeply troubled, however, by the fact that
Mr. VARONA has wed one Mr. Charles GOVESD s“his means?

 

has any current comection with Cuban intelligence and to that

end, we have urgently requested from the Bureau any and all
current information bearing on the matter, Although Mr.
VARONA cannot previde Cuban intelligence through Mr. GOVEA
anything really current, he could albeit unwittingly provide a
tremendous amount of information dealing with Agency modus
operandi which we ‘vould not like them to have. This becomes
quite important in view of the fact that we have several indications
of aggressive DGI/TN operations to gain information on. the AMOT
as well as our AMCRAPT operations.

3. Your pazzgraph 15 clearly reveals the fact that
VARONA has an axe to grind and he has chosen this way of
reingratiating hims:!f with the Agency by passing information
on "Frank" the man who handled him for the longest period of
time. For tactical yelitical reasons you may deem it wise to
"receive his report;' under no circumstances, however, would
we want this to be wed as a bridge to become involved in again
with a man in whose integrity or objectivity we have no confidence
whatsoever. To rexsrate re the previous paragraph, we are most
concerned about GO'EA and if we can develop any current infor-
mation on Mr, GOVIA's contacts with Cuban intelligence, we
believe it will be ne:zssary to get some word to Mr. Guest to
disengage himself f::m contact with this person.

.

aA

 

 

 
74-0000

 

h. Ee paragraph 12 of your memorandum of
11 June 196+:

«) "Frank" has no knowledge of the material
referred to. A further check will be made to determine
if this information was passed to ''Pepe" who wo uld have
made it avaiable to the Station. :

(:) This material apparently was passed to
"Pepe" and subsequently analyzed by the Station. DSE
personalitie: were carded. Mr. VARONA's statement
that "Frank" did not properly utilize the information

_. again. appeazs:to.be another vituperative attempt to.
_ strike at "Feank't who he apparently blames for his

downfall wit: the Agency.
to), (4), (e), (£). No Comment.

‘@), (h), G), G). This is probably completely
fabricated material. Nevertheless because of its rather
sensational zrature, the Station would be interested in
receiving trie copies of this material so that it can be
analyzed in tte light of specific, positive collection,
evidentiary material at hand. It would also be appreci-
ated if your zffice could glean the source or sources of
this alleged}: sensational material.

Bs: (kc), (1), (m).

 
    
 

Ris a Haitian exile living
most of his There is no information

that Mr. 4

(=) As in (g), (h), (i), Gj) above, the Station
would like ts mow the source of the alleged photograph
which Mr. VARONA refers to. This again appears to
be sheer fatrication. eo

ay
e3

 
 

Mr. VARON:. is not informed on other Station
operations, :o it is understandable that in his
attempt to bxng attention to himself that he
would focus m those’ things he is aware of.

Mr. VARON:#'s opinion of Mr. SANGENIS and
his handling af money is his own opinion. The
Station's viev is that it is lamentable that Mr.
VARONA, over the years, did not show the same
amount of personal dedication to getting the job
done that Mz. SANGENIS has shown. Again, it
appears to mm one more vituperative allegation
which has litle basis, based on information so far
provided by Mr. VARONA.

d. Xe paragraph 7 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%:

| ARONA was in fact the messenger sent
by "Frank''vo the person who was going to conduct
the exfiltraton of "Frank" and several co-workers
in June 1961 He did not, as he, suggests, have a
‘prime or oxanizing role in this Oe efiltration which
was, in fac.. handled by thl_ffemily,
long time assets of the Havana Stafion, Whether he
: Ls, nvolved_i: in thy exfj So not of Pedro

  
  

 

as was truein "Frank's case.

e. te + paragraph 8 of your memorandum of
11 June 190

   
  
   

J, sone is a good
family. He got to
Tt. [KO was Ambassador

* is.true-thay M
friend of tee Vasco de SZ
know this foiitly when V;
to Cuba. Tie Ambaseido¥ ave m asylum during the
BATISTA period, and this formdd basis of their
friendship. F rom time to time over the years, the

 

 

 

 

 
74-0000

 

Agency fount it useful to use this friendship as a
means of coitrolling Mr. VARONA when he became
unmanageabe. :

i. Fe paragraphs 9 and 10 of your memorandum
of 1] June 1'69:

   
   
     
 
  

has written
TINA? We have no
effect that he is being

Va know that: N
at least one irticle fax V.
information however, to
at all succersful in re-est&bhishing and/or revitalizing
the old "Autntico" Party. Giken his unfavorable
reputation ir.the Cuban community, it is unlikely that
he would enny any success in this endeavor. Oo

g. ‘Fe paragraph 11 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%

 
 

should be noted that Mr. Oso oY AVILA,
presently liung in Miami, is ‘the brothez“of a yromineat’
Communist in Cuba today and should be viewed in that
light. "“Fraikk's'" recollection of the situation involving
servants ant the ASPRU home, which he took over with
the servants. does not jive with Mr. VARONA's report.
There were ~vo white and two black servants in the
house. The tight of the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban
Internal Service sent agents to the ASPRU home to pick
up "Frank.' One colored and one white servant were at

_ home at thaitime and they told the DSE agents that

"Frank" wa: ‘a gay blade't and would not be home until
early the ne:s morning. The DSE left the residence
leaving behiul a note for "Frank" to report to their
headquarter: the following morning. In this context,

it should be wted that "Frank's" cover in Cuba during
the period in. -juestion was that of a professional gambler;
a cover whim: served him well during most of his service
there.

  

 

 
74-0000

 

 

a. ia paragraph 4 of your memorandum of
1l- June 196%: .
6

x. VARONA was recruited sometime
during 1957 xy Mr. then assigned to
the Agency's opfation in Havana. He was subsequently
handled by hr. another Agency Officer
presently stutioned in Kingston, Jamaica. Later, still
in Cuba, he vas handled by Mr. Frank Belsito now serving
in Panama cid Emilio Rodriguez (deceased.) Mr. Rodriguez
turned Mr. “ARONA over to "Frank" in November 1960.
In August 1911, Mr. VARONA took asylum in the Brazilian
Embassy in@avana. He was later granted "salvo conducto"
to Rio de Jaaeiro. In the interim "Frank" was exfiltrated
from Cuba tothe U.S. When Mr. VARONA arrived in the
Florida area during March 1962, he was met by his Havana
Case Officer Frank"! who continued to handle him until
August 1962, at which time he was turned over to the Greek
Case Officerhe refers to. The Greek Case Officer handled
him for app:uximately three years. Along about 1965, the
Greek Case fficer turned Mr. VARONA over to Mr. Al

* McQuade aki Fred who handled Mr. VARONA until May

1968, at whith time he was turned over to "Pepe" intro-
duced by ''F:ank" who served as an intermediary because
of his previms connection with Mr. VARONA. Pepe's
specific job vas to give Mr. VARONA one last chance to
prove that h: could be productive before being terminated.
Pepe, an emerienced agent handler's problems with Mr.
VARONA wo: precisely like those of his predecessors.
He found M: VARONA to be untruthful, bellicose and
generally wuatisfactory for any form of continued employ-
ment by WE Miami. Therefore, after due consideration
of Mr. VAR.INA's potential to cause trouble because of
his long exy rience with the Agency, the decision wes
taken to terninate him recognizing full well there might
be security ::percussions.

 
   

 

  
 

 

18 June 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Agent in Charge
Miami Field Office .

  
    
 

fo June 1969 ©
ncisco
‘ INA {Alonso}.

SUBJECT : Field Officé Memorandyy

~ 1, Ihave nov read with care the referenced memorandum
which deals specifimlly with charges by a former agent Wilfredo
"Pancho" VARONA z¢ainst his. handler known as "Frank" or.
Enrique. As you wil have perceived from reading VARONA's
file by the time you read this memorandum, Mr. VARONA is not
well regarded by oux Station and/or the people who have handled
him.to date. This wnstitutes the reason for his termination. I
would also like youo examine the field traces om Mr. Charles
GOVEA, an attachrient to this memorandum, These traces
indicate that Mr. GOVEA has had in the past, and possibly still
may have, some cortact with Castro intelligence organizations.
We are presently wating for a more complete read-out on Mr.
GOVEA from the Nev York Office of the FBI. Understandably,
therefore, you can see we look somewhat.askance at the GOVEA/
VERONA informatis:. Although we recognize the integrity of
the unwitting intermediary Mr. Winston Guest of Palm Beach,
Florida, we also re:ognize the implications for "Frank" in Mr.
GOVEA's knowledg: of our affairs given his ‘possible Castro
intelligence connecten. Axiomatically, we will be interested in
knowing, at some pont in the near future, whether "Frank's"
true identity is knovn by either VARONA or GOVEA.

2. Lhave diicussed this memorandum in detail with
"Frank", Our views on VARONA's allegations are presented
below, keyed to you: basic memorandum.
cs
Sa P

 

 

 
 

 

In th: light of the foregoing, it is worrisome
to find out tat Mr. VARONA is aware that "Frank"
‘recently recived transfer orders from the Organization.
We need mace information on this. We-suspect that the
origin of thie statement is the fact that Mr. VARONA
recently met"F rank" on the street in Mexico City by
complete haypenstance. During that meeting "Frank"
alluded to th: fact that he was no longer working in .
Miami (althiugh in fact he was) to confuse Mr. VARONA
as to his tru whereabouts. It should be noted that Mr.
VARONA re®@rs to "Frank" as "Frank" because at one
point during the time that he was being handled by
"Frank", otherwise known as Enrique, he instructed
Mr. VARON.to introduce him to the Vasco de CUNHA
family as "Frank" Stevens, otherwise he had known
"Prank" untir the name, Enrique. The basis for Mr.
_VARONA saxing that he believed "Frank" mishandled
the WOFIRM program in many ways appears to be
vituperation2lus frustration. The vituperation being
a basic ingrstlient in his opportunistic character.

b. Pe paragraph 5 of your memorandum of
11 June 196%.

That "Frank'' had certain responsibilities
re Juanita Cistro is very true. "Frank" was funda-
mentally resvonsible for the defection of Juanita Castro
although Mz. VARONA furnished the lead. The "Frank''/
Juanita Cast:o relationship is now quasi-legendary. He
did not fumbe the very difficult handling of this contro-
versial persin. Mr, VARONA would have been in no
position to low the load placed upon "F rank" by the
Agency in tring to gain operational mileage from Miss
Castre. Hz -he information that "Frank" was in posses-
sion of information which could have resulted in the
assassination of Fidel Castro, the following comment _
must be mat: This refers to the Plan RAPHAEL which

 

 
74-0000

Fae obyiauly known for some years that Mr. SAD

   

involved Mr. VARONA's brother. "Frank" was not
the Case Offi:er on this operation, although he had
originally vesruited Mr. VARONA's brother in Cuba
prior to his «xfiltration. The Case Officer for the
RAPHAEL overation, if one considers that there was
a case offices, would have been Stephen P. Mangello.

-Re Mr. VARONA's charge that five of his family went to. ~
jail in Cuba ind four of his friends ‘went to the wall" in
Cuba because of the shortcomings of "Frank," "Frank" has
the following specifically to say in rebuttal: ;

MWAZLONA was continuously admonished from
the time of Hs arrival in the U.S. in March 1962 to
be discreet soncerning his connection as well as his
relatives’ cmmection with the Agency. It was common
knowledge ir the exile community that VARONA and
his family vere dedicating their lives to the overthrow
of Castro. No member of VARONA's family was
molested by Castro until the exfiltration of VARONA's
brother in 1364. VARONA's brother left a wife and
two childrer. behind and later within a period of three
months inithted divorce proceedings. VARONA's
brother ant probably his wife, and possibly other
members o: the family knew of Plan RAPHAEL. It
would be dizicult, if well nigh impossible, to ascertain
who could luve been the cause of the arrest of members
of VARON-'s family, since besides the family members,
other agems who were also involved in this Plan were
arrested atipproximately the same time. Re the four
friends "wiv went to the wall, " this appears to be sheer
embellishrunt on the part of Mr. VARONA."

c. Re paragraph 6 of your memorandum of
11 June 1th?: :

 
 
  

Re Mr. VARONA's statement f
who holds “he highest position for the Agenc
andwho wigks directly for "Frank" is oné Joaquin,

“SANGENE/ this again is embellishment. Mr.

heads th: 4MOT Organization. This is one Qf the
WH/Mianu Station's several projects. Fgutunately, .

  

 

 

 
