TO BE OPERED BY ZBORESSEE ORLY
‘Chicago Field Office -
19 June 196)

  
   

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Investigative Division

(4500 — 925

1. Reference is made to Chicago Meld Office memorandum dated
19 May 1961 concerning the Subject.

2. On 15 June 1961 Mr vised the Special Agent

in Charge that Richard 8. orking r @ license of the Accurate
Labora: Room 308, 166 West Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois,
called) a@ advised him he had just returned fron British Columbia
where he had been, working on matters reportedly relating to Project
SEAL. Mr wanted this office to be aware of the loose manner in
which Mr. S reporting on his activities and aispleying very

little concern for security.

 

 

  

mail Da Cafe uf st Beso

Ta
([toetortocoeez] .
_  B wcuassitie W@) conFN TiaL
| ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

 
 

        
 

C1 secret

 

SUBJECT; {Optional}
CAIN, Richard
FROM:

Sarah K. Hall
Services Section

 

 

TO: {Officer designation, room number, and
building} OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS to whom. Draw @ line across column afer each comment}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

    

  
      
 

some 610 re

s O SECRET INTERNAL

CONFIDENTIAL = [(] tseonty  () UNCLASSIFIED
1490009

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

 

* Files

+ ecarenn (hos. ) wre ee ad v4

UNITED STATES GOV ....ENT

Memorandum

DATE: 12 September 1U75.

Chief, Security Analysis Group

CAIN, Richard
SF#272 141

1. In connection with the 1975 proceedings of the
Presidential Commission on CIA Activities Within the United
States (Rockefeller Commission), memorsnda under the caption
of Alleged Illegal Domestic Activities were prepared by the
Office of Security on a variety of different topics or subjects.
The memoranda were numerous, detailed, and many had attachments
or information concerning two or more subjects or topics.

2. The above memoranda may or may not have been furnished
in toto to the Rockefeller Commission. The memoranda were
transmitted through the DDA to the Inspector General with a
certain number to the General Counsel and were not directiy
furnished to the Rockefeller Commission by the Office of
Security. Due to the extreme urgency and complexity of tie
above memoranda, it was not possible to document many of the
pertinent security files.

3. In order to alert OS professionals that informatior
concerning a specific individual or organization was prepared
in connection with the above investigation, a copy of this
memorandum. is being placed in each pertinent security file
(where a file exists). In general, the information furnished
was based on information available in the particular security
file, but additional research in other Office of Security files
was involved in a number of instances. In the event of future
detailed interest in a particular file, a copy of abl memoranda
prepared in connection with the Rockefeller Commission investi-
gation is retained in the office of- the DD/PSI. In addition,
SAG is at least temporarily maintaining a copy of the majority
of the memoranda and can also be of assistance.

(AA
ceil FR Reese gg “Os Ee
MISTORIOA: REVIEW Proce ,

BLS :hjd

E2IMPDET

- CL BY 007472
STU! oe : ,

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Pazroll Savings Plait
 
