a ay
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY ia

24 June 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
FROM: Barry Harrelson
SUBJECT: ARRB Request re Angelton and Scott

. Jeremy Gunn, ARRB staff, has requested (via
telephone) access to the following files/documents:

a. Winston Scott documents, including the entire
manuscript It Came to Little, and personal effects seized on
Winston Scott's death;

b. files of James Angelton housed in the CI
vault. :
2. As ; handled the recent FOIA
litigation bY6éug 1 Scott (Win's son) for all

documents on his father, (Linda) has copies of documents
responsive to Gunn's first request: in her office. I have
spoken with @inda and we agree that, with your concurrence,
the best course of action would be to have Gunn view the
Scott. documents and manuscript at OGC. You should be aware
that during the course of that litigation, searches were
conducted to locate personal effects seized by CIA upon
Scott's death. Those effects were never located, but a
destruction record that seems to refer to these personal
effects was located and provided to OGC. Gunn would need
access to that destruction record as well. . ee ee

3. The second request of Gunn also was an issue in
the Scott FOIA litigation. At that time the DO told IP&CRD
that all Angelton documents were sorted through in the 1970s
and that a separate CI Angelton holding no longer exist.
Official files were incorporated into DO record system and

material not deemed to be official records were destroyed.
To the extent that any destruction records exist on
Angelton's records, Jeremy would like to see these as well.
(Linda and I suggest that the DO search for any such >
destruction records and forward them to OGC. In this way,
Jeremy can view them at the same time he views the Scott
documents.

4. Jeremy has agreed that if CIA allows him to view
the above records "informally" and he finds nothing that
relates to the assassination, then he will not make an
“official request" for these records. Of course, any
records he believes to be relevant, he will have to make an
official request and they will then become part of the JFK
Collection.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
ns . ‘ ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

*

«

5. Please let me know if you have any problems with
the above proposal. Feel free to phone me (30292) or Linda
(76124) iff you have any questions or concerns.

 

 

(2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

a0 | NoTES

interview with TM, June 12, 1989. In February 1974, Hersh had learned
about the CIA's top secret, $500 million Glomar Explorer project to retrieve
a sunken Soviet submarine off the bottom of the Pacific Ocean—~and he had,

- withheld publication on national security grounds.

31, William Colby strongly denies that he leaked any information to Sey-
mour Hersh or that he had planned in advance to use the Times story to get rid
of Angleton. ‘‘That's a lot of bull,’? Colby says. ‘I suspect Hersh got the
information from several sources. If you look at his story, you can see he put
it together. I would have handled Hersh the same way if Angleton were not
around.’’ William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989.

Hersh states simply, ‘‘Colby was not the source for my story." Seymore
Hersh, interview with TM, June 20, 1989.

32. William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989.

33. As DCI, Colby was fully authorized to fire Angleton at his own
discretion without appeal or outside review. For security reasons, the CLA was
the only U.S. federal agency that permitted its director to take such unilateral
action and bypass normal civil service regulations. The CIA’s 1947 charter
stated that the DCI may in his discretion, terminate the employment of any
officer or employee of the agency whenever he shall deem such termination
necessary or advisable in the interests of the United States. Confidential
interview.

34. Donald Moore, interview with JG, December 6, 1988.
35. Peter Wright, interview with TM, February 22, 1989.
36. Seymour Hersh, interview with TM, June 20, 1989.

37, ABC-TV News, untransmitted footage, held in a commercial film
library in New York City and viewed in June 1990.

38. David Atlee Phillips, The Night Watch (New York: Atheneum, 1977),
pp. 264-66; David Phillips, interview with TM, May 1, 1988. Phillips con-
firmed this anecdote from his book before he died in July 1988.

39. Wright, Spycatcher, p. 377.

40. James Angleton, letter to Marcel Chalet, February 28, 1975.
41. Cicely Angleton, interview with TM, May 30, 1988.
42. Peter Wright, interview with TM, February 22, 1989.

43. William Hood, on the other hand, offered to continue temporarily,
since he felt he could make a contribution to the reformed Counterintelligence
Staff.

- 44. Newton Miler, interview with TM, February 13, 1989.

He U
, NOTES | 431
46. Leonard McCoy, interview with TM, June 8, 1988.
47, Tid.

CHAPTER 22
1. Quoted in the New York Times, December 25, 1974, p. 1.
2. Confidential interview. :
. 3. William Colby, interview with TM, June 12, 1989.

4, The non-attributable quotations in this chapter have been collected
from friends and colleagues of the primary sources—and have been-carefully
cross-checked.

5. Confidential interview.
6. Confidential interview.
7. Confidential interview.
8. Confidential interview.

9. Henry Kissinger, interview with TM, June 15, 1989. Henry Kissinger
has told TM that he is unaware of the existence of any file on him from the
Counterintelligence Staff. :

10. As each of these files was destroyed, a complete record was carefully
maintained about what had been done..Kalaris signed off on every file and the
DCI’s office was notified. Confidential interview.

11. Confidential interview.
12. Confidential interview.
13. Confidential interview.

14. Cordelia Hood, interview with TM, August 26, 1989; confidential
interviews.

15. The CIA announced the results of Tweedy's investigation and distrib-
uted a condensed version of his final report to the delegates at the next CAZAB
meeting at Camp Peary, Virginia. Confidential interview.

16. Confidential interview.
17. Newton Miler, interview with TM, February 14, 1989.

18. Leonard McCoy, interview with TM, June 1, 1988, and interview
with JG, June 15, 1988. : .

190 Canfidential intecviaw
13-00000

vey gp Me WARKRIUK

news, he loudly feigned a nervous breakdown. He had never been told
that Lovestone was a regular CIA informant-cum-agent!)

A flanking platoon of Kalaris aides was delayed for several weeks
when they came across Rocca’s famous Research and Analysis files on
The Trust and the old wartime Rote Kapelle. (They discovered no less
than forty separate studies on The Trust alone.) Beyond those half-
century-old insights, they found files researching yet another decades-

_old caper: a World War II operation involving Soviet deception of the

Nazis in the Caucasus. Kalaris was unable to comprehend their rele-
vance to the real world of 1975.

Kalaris and McCoy personally led the elite force that stormed the
inner sanctum: the super-secret Special Investigation Group’s office
and vault, Despite all of Angleton’s gloomy briefings, they found not
one single shred of hard evidence in the hundreds of SIG files that
proved any of the accusations against any of the HONETOL or other
molehunt suspects. The SIG had been the engine behind Angleton,
Golitsyn, and the Fundamentalists, a perpetual generator grinding out
the wattage for a bleak scenario in which Soviet agents were taking
over key men in key positions throughout the globe. Yet the entire
raison d’ étre of the SIG turned out to be so much documentary fantasy.
Time and again, in file after file, the two men found only newspaper
clippings, elevated gossip, chatty memoranda with waspish handwrit-
ten notes added, and unsubstantiated allegations.

Kalaris read through the.two key British files, on Harold Wilson -

(OATSHEAF) and Sir Roger Hollis; there was nothing substantive in
either of them. He perused the large file on Averell Harriman and
smaller ones on Armand Hammer and Henry Kissinger (contrary to Ed
Petty’s belief that the latter didn’t exist).° The new Counterintelligence
chief was so ashamed at the unacceptable quality of the intelligence he
uncovered that he had several dozen of the most egregious examples
destroyed as soon as possible: ;

A simultaneous priority for the hard-pressed Kalaris was dealing
with what came to be known as ‘‘the Golitsyn factor.” Angleton was
insistent from the outset that Kalaris should inherit his prized Soviet
defector and should treat Golitsyn with proper reverence and defer-
ence. Kalaris was less than enthusiastic, He already knew more than he
wanted to know about the former KGB officer and his bizarre theories,
and did not subscribe to the view that Golitsyn came with the Coun-
terintelligence Staff's furniture.

Angleton, however, pressed his successor to attend a get-acquainted
dinner with Golitsyn at an Italian restaurant in nearby Alexandria in
late January 1975. Scotty Miler, who was still officially Golitsyn’s
case officer, came along too. As usual, the occasion began with a great

BACKWARDS IN THE MIRROR |

_ deal of drinking. In between toasts, Golitsyn offered to enlighten

new Counterintelligence chief with all of his views about the Rus
intelligence services. Angleton nodded enthusiastically, while Kal
gritted his teeth and reached for his cigarettes.

After being bombarded by dozens of unfamiliar names and ic
that didn’t seem to make any sense, the pragmatic Counterintellige
chief began to wonder whether he and Golitsyn were inhabitants of
same planet. There seemed to be some sort of galactic gap between
gruff Ukrainian’s allegations and the reality of the intelligence we
that Kalaris had moved in for more than twenty years.

To add to Kalaris’s discomfort, Angleton and Miler kept nodd
their heads in vigorous agreement with every new point Golitsyn \
making. ‘‘See, George,’’ they would repeat, as the defector hung
one more unsupported conclusion on a trembling line of unchecl
evidence. Throughout the spaghetti, scampi, wine, and Scotch, Kal:
simply couldn’t understand what Golitsyn was talking about. h
respectful way, he tried to explain this to Angleton, but he sensed t
his message was not getting through.

Kalaris left the dinner with relief, only to be ambushed by
Fundamentalists again a month later, when they insisted that he m
Golitsyn once more—this time in one of the CIA's favorite hotels,
Key Bridge. Marriott at nearby Rosslyn Circle. It was an afternc
session, with Angleton and Miler again attending. Golitsyn talked a
talked, and Kalaris again found it quite impossible to comprehend |
briefing. As the three CIA men were leaving the hotel, Kalaris tum
to Miler and told him, ‘‘This is the last time I intend to meet Golits)

I don’t understand him or anything about him..1 cannot and will 1
waste my time like this. In the future, if Golitsyn has something for t
staff, I will send someone else-to deal with him.’""! ©

“You can’t do that!’’ a horrified Miler replied. “Golitsyn is ve «
important and he has always dealt only with the top men.’ ;

Angleton supported Miler. ‘You've got to try hard with Anatoliy :
he advised Kalaris. ‘‘These things can take years.’ :

Kalaris relented and reluctantly agreed to a third meeting a few da :
later. Another lunch, more wine, more of Golitsyn’s ponderous le +
turing. Kalaris, eyes glazing, tried his best to show interest and rema ~
calm. But when Golitsyn started talking about the ‘‘alleged’’ Sin
Soviet split, Kalaris exploded. ‘‘Are you telling me that what we ha _
been seeing over there for fifteen years is not real?’’ he thundere: :

“*You.don’t understand, you don’t understand,’’ grumbled the S:

. viet defector. !2

When Kalaris returned to his office, he summoned one of his truste__
officers, Emest Tsikerdanos. ‘‘I've decided to give you an assigi .

 
13-00000

32% | COLD WARRIOR

Golitsyn.’’ Rocca replied that he knew very little about the defector or
his handling.

Perplexed, Kalaris countered, ‘‘Ray, you're the deputy in here. Ji im
stressed Golitsyn’s importance to me yesterday.’’

Still no briefing. Kalaris concluded this was turning into a waste of
valuable coffee-drinking time.

“What can you tell me about, Ray?’ he asked patiently.

‘I can tell you all about The Trust,’’ Rocca replied brightly.

‘*But that all happened a half century ago,’’ wailed Kalaris in de- .

spair. ‘‘I want to know what's happening now/"’
Rocca continually referred Kalaris to Angleton after each successive

fee.

‘When Angleton eventually arrived for work, Kalaris asked him for
an up-to-date situation report: current cases, operations, personnel
problems, budgets, and so on. To his alarm, Angleton instead began to
talk again at length about Golitsyn and his brilliant analysis of the
international Communist threat. A great sense of déja vu descended on
Kalaris. Angleton next launched a ferocious attack on Colby, bitterly
complaining how Colby had destroyed the CIA’s counterintelligence
capability, and how he had taken the Israeli Account away.

Angleton also specifically complained that the Counterintelligence
Staff had lost the right to vet DDO assets—the new sources being
developed by the case officers in the field. As a former senior official
in the clandestine service, Kalaris knew the answer to that one. The
vetting process had become so inefficient under Angleton that it was
taking up to six months to clear an operation. CIA officers trying to
develop assets were seeing them slip from their grasp during the in-
terminable wait for head office approval. Colby had turned over the
vetting process to the CIA’s Foreign Intelligence Staff, which had
quickly revived it.

At midday, Angleton took Kalaris to one of his celebrated liaison
lunches at La Nigoise in Georgetown. The waiters bowed and scraped
on cue as Angleton entered the restaurant. The two men were ushered
to Angleton’s usual table, where a senior British liaison officer was
already waiting. Angleton tossed down four huge martinis as he and
his foreign guest, to the deliberate and humiliating exclusion of
Kalaris, proceeded to talk in code about several active cases of which
the new chief as yet knew nothing. -

On their return to Langley, a stack of cables awaited Angleton i in his :

* office (now officially Kalaris’s office, though he had temporarily taken .

a smaller adjacent room as he waited politely for. Angleton to leave). :
Had Jim read any of these cables, Kalaris asked. “‘No,’’ answered :

question. Finally, Kalaris acknowledged defeat and went for his cof |

BACKWARDS IN'THE MIRROR [27

Angleton bluntly. ‘‘Well, I guess I better start reading them,’’ said
Kalaris heavily. He turned to Angleton’s (now his) secretary (the loyal
Bertha Dasenburg had retired several years earlier) and instructed her
to ensure that all future cable traffic come to him first. The secretary
looked at Angleton and winced. Kalaris made a mental note to dis-
pense with her services as soon as possible.

_ As Kalaris went on to assemble his own deputies and they began to
consolidate their arrival, the time for game playing with the ancien
régime finally came to an end. Kalaris was becoming increasingly
anxious to find out what had actually been going on inside the staff.

First, his new team attacked the Fort Knox array of safes and vaults.
Expeditionary forces led by intrepid junior officers found entire sets of
vaults and sealed rooms scattered all around the second and third floors
of CIA headquarters.

Even before these safes were opened, one team (literally searching
on its hands and knees) had discovered a packet of some forty-five
letters which had slipped behind a safe and lain there unopened for five
years. This political time bomb was placed unceremoniously on
Kalaris’s desk. Gingerly, he poked the pile and established that this
mail was an infinitesimal part from the take of HT-LINGUAL, which had

simply gotten lost inside Angleton's domain. These letters had been’

sent by Soviet citizens and Americans visiting the USSR to people in
the United States. All of the addressees were friends or relatives, rather
than spies and traitors.

Kalaris contemplated the pile with anguish. He knew full well that
it was a federal offense for him even to have the letters in his posses-
sion, let alone open them or, God forbid, destroy them. The pile ticked

‘menacingly in his in-tray for several days as he devised a plan for what

to do. This was the post-Watergate reform era. He and the CIA needed
another scandal like rowboats need hurricanes.>

Kalaris eventually untied the Gordian knot by using a series of
untraceable cut-outs to have the letters dumped on an earnest young
Capitol Hill staffer who was preparing evidence for congressional hear-
ings on Operations CHAOs and HT-LINGUAL. The CIA’s involvement
was suitably obscured. (The letters were eventually forwarded to the
addressees with an apology, although there was no clue provided for
the puzzled recipients as to why the U.S, mail had taken five full years
to deliver them.) :

As the Kalaris commandos pressed forward, they‘came across safes
which had not been opened for ten years. No one on Angleton’s
remaining staff knew what was in them. Worse, no one had the com-
binations anymore. In one case, Kalaris was forced to call in the CIA's
Office of Security, which sent over a crack team of safebusters to drill

were
13-00000

328 COLD WARRIOR

open the door. The entire safe-checking operation took several weeks
to complete, since there were more than forty safes involved, each
weighing about 1,000 pounds. The-final stages of each opening were
accompanied by a breathless hush, as a trained counterintelligence
officer withdrew the contents.

The audience cheered when, inside ‘one stubborn safe, they ex-

tracted a primitive African bow and arrow (it had come from South
Africa). In others they found tapes, photographs, and ‘‘bizarre things
of which I shall never ever speak’"—as Kalaris later muttered myste-
tiously to his team. —

There was one enormous safe—everyone called it the ‘‘Grandpa”’
safe—which was located in a storage room down the hall from the
main Counterintelligence Staff'offices. The troops reckoned that this
huge contraption with five file drawers inside had come from Angle-
ton’s own office. When an Office of Security safecracker finally opened
it, they found it crammed with Angleion’s own most super-sensitive
files, memoranda, notes, and letters. Among these papers were files
from the Sir Roger Hollis and Graham Mitchell investigations. There
were also files on journalists, including a number of reporters who had
worked in Moscow.

To the surprise of the new team, they discovered that Angleton had
not entered’ any of the official documents from these safes into the
CIA’s central filing system. Nothing had been filed, recorded, or sent
to the secretariat. It would take a team of highly trained specialists
another three full years ; just to sort, classify, file, and log the material
into the CIA system.®

Angleton left behind three main vaults on which the Kalaris team
focused their attention. Firstly, there was his own front office vault,
which contained executive. office materials; files produced by Angle-
ton, his secretary, or Rocca; and anything Angleton needed for further
reference. Secondly, there was a vault holding the HT-LINGUAL files,

. containing boxes filled with copies of letters intercepted from the mail-

opening program. Thirdly, and most importantly, there was the sub-
stantive vault of counterintelligence records, which contained some
forty thousand files stored in endless racks of brown envelopes. In all,
there were ten racks with double rows, each rack standing 8 feet high
and some 40 feet long. As far as the new team could determine, a large
number of these files were not at all relevant to proper counterintelli-
gence functions and had no real value. They contained data on for-
eigners, dead individuals (for historical purposes), former KGB and
GRU officers, and U.S. politicians and legislative aides who had been
in contact with Soviet bloc assets or the KGB.”

The files had been deliberately segregated for the private use of the -

BACAR WAREZ FIN 8 db ae oe anes ee t vee

Counterintelligence Staff, thus placing one of the most sensitive and
delicate functions of the CIA beyond executive control. As these
records were restricted to the second floor only, they were kept orga-
nized and guarded by a staff officer posted at the vault every day.
Access to the files was recorded in a logbook. Although the rest of the
Directorate of Operations had been undertaking a crash program since
1972 to computerize its archives, none of this counterintelligence data
had been entered because Angleton did not believe in the technology,
nor was he going to share information through terminals blinking his
secrets throughout the building.

In other words, Angleton had been quietly building an alternative
CIA, subscribing only to his rules, beyond peer review or executive
supervision.

Leonard McCoy waded through some four hundred of these name
files before he concluded that the procedure was too time-consuming
and exhausting for him to complete. He ordered his staff to finish the
chore and to report to him on the merits of maintaining specific records.
When they had finished the tedious work, they advised McCoy to
retain less than one half of 1 percent of the total, or no more than ©
150-200 out of the 40,000.

McCoy ordered these few sanctioned records to be placed into the
central registry, and the remainder to be rechecked again page by page
for relevant material. The discards were then to be burned. (It was to
take years just to destroy all of these files. The process was still
continuing when McCoy left the staff a full four years later, in 1978.)
He also advised that neither Angleton nor Rocca should be told of the
destruction of their files.

Kalaris and McCoy then instituted a strict new policy for the cre-
ation of a Counterintelligence Staff file. The primary criterion was that
there had to be a ‘‘reasonable national security suspicion’’ before a file
could be opened on any person. On Kalaris’s watch, very few new files
were opened.®

When the Kalaris commandos reached Jay Lovestone’s ‘‘JX Re-
ports,’® the reviewers paused for breath and sat down to read them in
loving detail. They contained a remarkable amount of high-class
dinner-table gossip, including, by volume, approximately one foot of _
pages full of Washington chatter alone. The files confirmed that An- :
gleton had indeed routed much of this salacious tittle-tattle to the DCI’s *
office on the seventh floor. When the readers had finished their review,
Kalaris phoned the chief of the DDO’s Labor Division (the CIA sec-
tion which should have been running the Lovestone operation all along) -
to reveal the existence of the. Lovestone connection and invite him to :
take over the whole ‘‘JX’’ filing system. (When this officer heard the

 
13-00000

2 a 4G Cee F

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by! the “Informal Request” (IR) number Provided
below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).
This request is complete.
CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.
This request is complete.
“IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents i in HTLINGUAL File.
“CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in
April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a a formal letter for the
record.

   

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angletonis#files.

Pa

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to
account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that
related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived
controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton’s files, the Review Board
believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he
maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to
explore any subjects in Angleton’s files beyond those that may have pertained to
the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided
by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any
additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the ,
disposition of Angleton’s files.

In addition, the ARRB staff’s review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated
additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents
are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied

 
 

104-10336-10003

Assassination Records Review Board

(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL»

Mr. John Pereira . 2000

Chief AEE wee ee

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

December 18, 1997

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for
Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board’s requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April.1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CLA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

 

Boaro Memuens: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce » Anna K. Neilson

600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor * Washington, DC 20530 -
 

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 7

Documents file: documents Nos. 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510. The Review Board

  

is awaiting confirmation that these documents are at HRG for processing.
CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested to use its contacts to pursue certain records
related to Oswald that were orally described to CLA. The Review Board
understands that the CIA has taken steps to pursue these records.

* xX CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QKENCHANT
and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan. -

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this
request that now appears to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking additional
‘information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks
an immediate, full, and accurate formal response to this request. Once the formal
statement is provided, this request will be complete.

“CIA R07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

-

The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able | to locate to date.

 

X& HCIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the “Family Jewels” Memoranda.

ARRB has reviewed a redacted version of the “Family Jewels.” Additional
questions have been raised. At meeting between HRG, ARRB and the DCI/IRO
on December 11, 1997, specific redacted pages were identified for ARRB staff
review. These pages should be made available as soon as possible.

  
13-00000

Pireey

——
CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
i “ RELEASE IN FULL
. . 2000
ALSo BY Tom MANGOLD
The Tunnels of Cu-Chi

ves | (COLD
WARRIO}

JAMES JESUS ANGLETON:
THE CIA’S
MASTER SPY HUNTER

 

Tom Mangold

SIMON & SCHUSTER
New York London Toronto
Sydney Tokyo Singapore
