rr roy 7 . . : : . i
~ - . ; - | WFEA-168
oe. . SECRET ation 5 June 1S£2
. 4 gure INF Page Two

exhibited a short terper on occasions with Yells and reportedly
lost his temper completely during a meeting with Kr. AsR.<SLLAS,
forcer British First Secretary. On this occasion Garanin had
needled Kellas in a fairly rough fashion. Kellas had replied

in kind, and Garanin had lust his temper and left.

5. Garanin speaks fairly good English. Martchouk does not
speak Englasu but, according to Wells, speaks French. It 4s not
believed that Garanin's expressed desire to have lunch with Cor-
win has any special significance as such, particularly in light
of his similar approach to Hajjar. It is interesting to nvte,
however, tuat Garanin is currently avpearing in such a friendly
fashion despite the Soviet Union's dissatisraction witn our

poiicy in Germany.
> bur.
Pee Corwin

Distribution: —

 

Poa 7 SECRET ; nr an
vo am SECURITY INFORMATION =: 6-7”. Songs ob

291-3406 7E

 
 

0247-10009

 

a

Via: _ATR_POUCH DISPAN 4NO._VFAA-168

 
  
  

. SECRET
SECU" LAssiriGR TOMI ON

To 3 Chief, *E

FROM: Chief of Station, i
MICROFILMED

OCT 3 1 1968

DOC. MICRO, SER.

1. Cn 4 June 152 Corwin attended a cecxtall party given
- by the Argentinian Charge d'taffairee itn honor of Feron's reelec-
tion to the presidency. The party wag not too far alon; when
Corwin encountered Feodor Alexelviteh’QAXANIN, a first secretary
of the Soviet Legation. Corwin had met CARANIN once before at
ia cocktail party given by H. Bartlett Yells, American First

   
 

SUBJECT: GENERAL— ? Chat with Soviet Diplerat

   

SPECrIC—

   

av Secretary. Cn thts cecasion {at the argentinian party) Corwin

%

greeted the Russian with “How do you do, Xr. Garanin." The
latter replied and answered in turn, "How do you do, Mr. Cor-
win," using the latter's true name, of course. UGaranin said,
- "You have a good memory,” whereupon Corwin replied, “lly memo-
ry is almost as ¢ecd as yours.” Garanin smiled and that ended
the incident for the moment. : :

2. Later, in searching for his wife, Corein fuund her
engaged in conversation with Garanin. Corwin joined the group
and chatted for a minute. Caranin then said that "we must have
lunch one of these days.” Corwin indicated his willingness to
this. At that point he introduced Garanin to Lt. Col. Howard
Van De Car, United States Air Attacne. Garanin said that he
knew Col. Van De Car but Van De Car later told Corwin that he
could not recall ever having met Garanin before. Shoruiy after
this Garanin excused himself but told Corwin that he would re-
jturn to the subject later. It will be interesting to see.whe-
ther he makes any further contact.

3. The next cay it was learned that Caranin had also en-
gagea Fred Hajjar, Assistant Attache in the corzercial section
of the U.S. Legation, in conversaticn and had indicated a de~ -

sire to have lu eo with big arate USse, OCC! SKCanD SECY Kernan ~
4. Kr. 1 as had sere previous social contact with

Garanin and I. I.°XA4RTCKCUR, a second secretary at the Sovier
tion in charge of consular affairs. Nellis speaks Russian
and has exchanged visits with these two individuals. Wells says
that MARTCHCUK is a much more pleasant person than Garanin whom

he deseribes as an unhappy and coarse character. Garanin has

> Yene sa”
Aol 390675

  

SECURITY, assirtedTiOn
ER Gi aa

  

temo ete ame tener ee

Reem cere seaanugee tyler setenv

Sreryeeieemaieneatiyeier ee oa terete: “enya atmnnemnepeemeiap te
