13-00000

 

  
 
 
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

.
a. of - a
vo : -
an -, e .
. - * .
- { =~ Pe {
oo .
'
Aconay files.” Unforbunnatly: these docwasnbs appear to be most
Jt — differnt bo Lloeata and reltriovea, many of them buried in retired
file holdings.” : .
5. Re ‘do should continne to seek information

"from rebire especially when it appears that they

wes ination wi ay oovenh oor rbbeity fo *
which we are a selective process aml

used only vhen we believe tha retiree could contribute to our

imnsdiate ingair The documented fasts, however, are still newled
‘to. answer quostiohs. posed tous officially by other Governmont

entities, , us ,

. :
TLA/Ops
°
.
1
t
ce ee cee eigen eee renee aoe on a HTT Sr cep ctr een ter ene ee
| e

i)

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
    

. f _ 6 _ : . : |G
Sonr oneal fic i ors . Accentine ta & 5 © [will be.
y returning. to the Agent, short ly. fas familiar with the
operation in Kay “5 Another ex-arency emo lovaa also in-

 
 
  

    
   

   

volvot in th
Dan Vaelaai

DEA he antckly-ro

clon, ono ee » The ondersi

7 RAS 4 vonbiradk oe F i :

‘to GS-L and was directing the Key dest operation,
Waen Lt folded, agconling Lo Ay & twas busted to G3-13 an!
sent track to. * ton, where he is now working in DA's Inspecti
Division (simil r to our IG Staff), A j was also avare of anolivar
ox-Ageney- eriploy.a9y” (fin) or { whe was to no to Mexico under
DBA dep cover", - According to aA} Po fwan to be invelvel

. tn: sassination oparations avainst Mexican dealers an} pushers.
Instaad, oe. ‘ended up in El Paso for ahout a year and is now
in Ilami. The urlersigned personally know O | ‘ Yul did not
know of his specific assignnent within DEA. (NOTE: “while the ahove
wis a little ramb Lina " 9 this is the way. the debriefine of |= A. /vent
‘all afternoon!) Se ae

kn

   

 

vee al abet

  
   

 

offs Hamisceripl: I hac read alts mamseript,

"Tho Bay of Pigs " befo doparting Washington. Lynch explained that
he had dietaled: th paper and had a couple of secrotarias type ib
out, It is only in: very rough form and he wanted to wet his thoushts
down on paper. As he: indicates in the papgr, he want ad to get the
facts straight: He-feals that since he was there and part of the
_invasion, he has a-unique vaew point of the Bay of Pies and wants
-bo see that-history reflects his pobition, As indicated oarlier,

A is “rather bittor against the Now Frontier, the Kennedys ant
Canslot. This is reflected in his manuseript . selaimed that
‘much of his paper had been "stolen" in that he explained tha invasion,

ey; chs Henk

 

 

  

for instance, ‘to the CBS crew and they were using soma of his material

sin the soon to bre be shown progtram dascribed above. In addition,
imentioned, that. he had spoken to the Arency historian - can't
“recall his pane ~on tho is alse writing a book (classified) on the
invasion. s to publication, it seems.to be in the distant future.
. He does not wlan to fo to a publisher, where he vould xex raceive
sroyalty payments of around 5%. Rather, he plans to publish on his
own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 1006 profit, It micht
cost him tha in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of
about $30, 000 depending on sales.

n. WMise.: _, A ialso spoke about porsonalities within the

 

“Anency . He mebtioned Ted Shack ley, "Dum "Dum"Dinne r , many people in
“LAD who had a part in the invasion or JMVAVE, . A, «is a member of

the retired Agency employees association that Dave Phillips formed.
As-such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.
‘To me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting interview,
sate ‘As far as results, the interview indicated to me that we can cot
broad-brush overviews from retired Agency employees, and fow details.
“To answer specific questions from Congress and/or the Department of
Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with documents from

ane eee enn ne aetna tein nem men nn ers moan = mremiewme yan os

 
 

 

wo dee

tamna Tribune

Vt Jan 77

- _ Eme rgency in Miami

> Murder is murder but assas-
sination is ‘something else again.
It's an emergency, |

Sev en .Cudan- exile | leaders
have been assassinated in Miami

in the past three years, five of

them jn the last’ few months. Lat-
est to fall-was Juan Jose_Per-

_divero, a Bay of Pigs veteran and

leader of Brigade. 2506, gunned
down as. he? lett. his. front door
last week, |

the resources of a local law en-
forcement agency.

That is why Miani_ police,
wisely, have appealed to US. At-
torney General Edward Levi to
allow FBI intervention in the in-

vestigation of the uusalved kil

lings.

Federal intervention is not, as
widely believed, automatic in as-
sassination cases, The murder of
a privale person, even the politi-

Mindl de 4 ; cal assassination of a mam on the -
soctinlgs murder sae street, is not a Federal offense.
coolly calculate multiple politi- Before the FBI can enter the’;
cal assassinations, not to men- Case, Levi must declare that the
tion assassination attempts, in Miami murders constitute an 1
‘the city. that) Cuban refugees — emMerpency. i
adopted, are admittedly beyond They do, it is and he should. |
, t
|
i
sees (NOTE: Tf not already done, it might be a good idea to lock into ae |
. the backg roynd of Peruyoro, as far as the Agency is concerned, if / . : |
the FBI is actually stepping into this case, Naturally, they$will / _ .
‘come to us for information, ) 0 : |
S-E-C-R-E-T

 
 
13-00000

 

   
 
  
  

    

vation of Letlalier: while on assassinations,
"Rs conversation, Ho has no- pors senal knowle lye
| Again, however, ho gave me the “street word."

ah som mat is Saying that the sane people who did

Zant: bo

 

 

this case enterel
cof what haps ond.
de

 

  
 

  
 
 

arranged for the Lettalior killin - hired and paid tho killors.
For this reason, tho Chicaro fanily of the Mafia is furious with
‘Tralicante, bocalise he is/or will bring heat on the Mafia. The
reason for Traficante doin: it??? Fidel Castro hirel him and paid
him well to do it. the vord is that Trafieanta has been coopera
with the DOI and Fidel since he ‘daparted Cuba, Fidel wanted Ros:
killed, bécausé of Rosseli's part in the assassination alteinpt ag
Fidel, .& femphasized that that this is not his theory, but wori
from the ‘streat in Jami. : “

 

 

    
 

j. “ons CS Show on “tnb: at. A ¢said O'S is planning a show
on the "Loracy of the Bay of Pi as," which should ba broadcast in
about. Hay 1977... CBS has ‘already shot ROANX interviess in Miami,
including one with Perwyero (above) before he was killed, plus
covering the aftermath of his assassination. Currently, the CSS
erev.is in Cuba - they hops to film the beachos at the’Pay of Pirs -
which had bean suggested to them by A. ~ & ‘has also been’
interviowed and has given his opinions for the TY showing, Whilo
in Cuba, the CRS crew hopes to also interviow Fidel ~ also at the
surpostion of | Ae!” The fellow behind the show is named CRILE amt
he has talked.té & / extensivoly. According to A 4 the show
would have boan vory anli-Azency in its comments, tub ho” A!
has turnoad this: around: almost 180 dezreestt! As planned, the —
show will be two hours and shown in May 1977. ‘

 

- yp .
k. Brigade 2506: .On the Brigado, ‘said he had beon

_ san apolitical organization, Individuals of any political shade had

‘been members and politica had not really entered Brigade Association
business. Last year, however, they joined with Orlanto BOSCH, amonr

others, to help form CORU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished
cthey had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana

“bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the
Brigade Association, which & jconsiders a shame. On the CBS film
(above), >A ‘said he was filmed attending an anniversary meeting.
“This s same mneoting was where CBS filmed Peruyero. :

1. Lynch & DEA: ‘hen A ‘retired from tho Anency, ho

moved to Key Wast. -He came to the attention of DEA, especially to

Lou Conine, an ex~Agency 6fficer now with DEA.. A jealls Conine

-an SOB and worso, He went, into a long explaination of his activities
“with D&A in Key West. -In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of
-informants, Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left

-dangling on a string in Key West, He had to leave town within 24

‘hours and left his people (informants) there without callinn or
‘warning then, As a result, he lost friends, prestige with his
‘Anformants (many of them Cyban exiles) and his business in Key West.
“In peneral terms, he was treated very shabbily by DSA and regrots
~ever having mixed with them, He is still in contact with one of

 

 
13-00000

 

 

.a strech of almost 8 hours. A [pas most inbartaining, bub enly

  
 
   

1? Jamiary lor?

CONTACT RET

   
   

AHO ; | former staffer
Pointe Yrive
813- “a -8519

SUBJECT + bebriotiuy on Training and Denolitions Given to And
Castro Cuban Exiles

‘PLACE «o: Holiday lon (fanpa! Airport)

 
 

 

Florida

TIME oo: Vs, damary. 1977
- 0900.~ 1445 hours

To debrief A bn questions posed by tha
Department of: Justice remardine anti-Castro Cuban exiles. These
questions, in #eneral, covered training and oxplosives/detonation
derines Rivon to thes 9. exiles.

 

2. Heot ine OA fame to my motel room (503) on Friday.
morning at. 0900" and departed at 1645, During this time, beth of. us
sat in easy charts in front of a picture widow en the 5th foor - ir.

A Kid 95% of. the talking. Weither of us got up during this certod,

 

marginally informativo as to specific details on the questions prokel
to him, Ho spins a good story and remembers people and places vary

swell. ly bona fides for tho meeting was a call from Ms. Sheila
O'Neil to A | a day before. I arrived in Tampa. A Jis a little

goosy, because of a DEA connection (below), and checked mp ont thru.
-.a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used true

-%
“sy As, MD,

name with  & op

+

3. Results: &  povered the following topice with me:

a. Training: On Panama and the facilities used, the best

jcould remember, Ft. Shernan was open in about August or
Saptember 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to. 3 month period.
There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIMe followers. When it was
docided a bigger group would be needed, which later becams Brigade
2506, these people were sent to Rotalhulou (Guatemala) andunth in
abont November 1960.. “Actually, the group was split, with some going
to Guatemala and others. to the New Orleans. area, As to other training
in ‘Panama, A \has no knowlerdge. (note: @& |surmested that Hr.

‘tm AL by retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,
might be a good source. Ax |was C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,
as wodl as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JMTAVE at one time.)

. GSB Ca RelaP.
a. . ae’ ; .
Ser Feed CAA suagleyees.
* id
x

. 010g

 

 
 

 

 

‘ 2.
APPROVED FOR neisase 89
__CIARISTORICHL rev oon

   
   
   
 
 
   
    
  
  
  

 
  
     
  
  

OF. F ICUAL VOQMEEES OD SEP |

. HATH

‘cinier acety |” | ERETARE & ie REPLY a
pisraren "| 77 |necounenoaniole
REIW

 

WnEQAMEIIOH a

 

een Lira pr. /

fon Reg tap O Fen ext AS.

 

 

puAElae: 96,

 

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

7 FROM NAME, ADDRESS ANO FHONE rO. DATE -
oan : oF . . : .
. : _. ff Sh Se en TE
| | UNCLASSIFIED “ONFIDENTIAL SECRET
"FOAM 20, 937 tre previous editions : @USGIor 1976 == 202-953 "40?

 

fee St pate pit op one
pastas sere vont or oft

    
   

% renee ati ies aie oe
13-00000

 
  

bl. Bupnli } “An Lo explosives, Lime delay fies, resote

contre] ‘davises, 4 mnabion miberials, ele. civen to thase exi lar
. Li, “Look over the supply wamial for Uial times" Appar
files word riven ave srythine thatowas available amd in large

 
   
 

quantities. 2° A [said-he just could not bogin to five nea » Lis t
~of what had’ bean ye assed, :

 

   
 

Teams: After the Bay of Pies invasion, AX |

workel with anfiltration teans. Tha Agency worked wilh those beans

- from rourhly. 1953 to 1956. They were in two cabapories. The first

were unilateral. Leams. trainin: an? sponsored by the Ageney. The
other calarory was “political” teans - that is political proups in
soufthern:Florida:who were Sponsorinz infiltrations into Cuba,

Tho Agency helpod this later g catarory by riving them supplins.

Tn the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba. The -
unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, and
sanother group vould pick it up and use it (compartnentation),

In some cases, teams (both unilateral and political) would not
actually make-the cache and keep the matertal in Florida, to be

used later’ at their own convenience, In addition, & [was positive
that sone of Castro's troops obtained some of thesa caches, dus to
foul-ups and.snitches. These caches containes pistols, rifles and
heavier, money and demolitions. Somo of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and buryinh their stuff on small islands and reporting
back to Florida that. they had cached in Cuba, - a tated several
tines that there was no effective control over the "political".

_ groups and therefora no. control ofer the material riven them, Fron
.this, me may surmigo that Agency equipment (demolition included) was |
win the hands of-anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as well as

Castro" s Rebel Army. -on- wisland.

: od Brigade Train ning: Further to demolition training to
cAnti-Castro Cubans,. A. reminded mo that shortly after the Brirade
owas ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Palm Beach
and talked with President Kennedy. At that time, the US Govt offered -
. Brigade nembars .the chance to join the U.S. army. This also included
“infil team mentbers, who were completely seperate from tho Brigade, and

-smembers of the Brigade airforce, The Army end of this training was...

given at Ft. Banning, Georgia and began in early 1953. There, Brigade
members entered the U.S. Army at roukly equivalent ranks - officers. -
were made 2nd Lts, They received Ranger training, plus. jump training.
“Thus, A said, if any exiles wore training in dems lations and. related
topics, thato best training was probably given at Ft, Wenning. Host
‘of these mon wera in the U.S. Army for oither 6 months or one year...

6. Cubana Houbing: & ‘was specifically askecl about: the |

6 October 1976 bombing kha of the Cubana airliner in the Garibbean... |

A. i said the street-word ahong tho Cuban community in south Florida
sis that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground. The
vombers did not mean to kill all of those people. On BOSCH, the...”
community does not particularly like him, but admires him because- he
had been going at Castro tooth and nail for yoars, They do not like
‘the idea of terrorism and fault BOSCH and MORALES for this.

 

 

 
13-00000

      
     

  
   
 

 

i 3 f

Pood JFevear Ao hevb read tha cecent arliclas int
: "papers about. the wniroduction of Swine Fever tuto Cuba by tho Anouoy . :
cin 1972.) He-tad 18 knowledye of this. A did ask if we hal i
cheek odb wit as DIA??? He said vhen ho had bean with the Army as ‘a ;
ial Fere type, it was unbelteverble what the Army had dome ‘
HOP UU elas staining in une States, le mentioned an : “ !
Wt a braining exercise in NYC, when a fake substance was inte. - - t

duced into. the ‘water of a hotel where Pres, fisenhover was stayin.
In any event, Kyrte.. & said if Svine Fever had heen introchcod
Jinko Cuba, ho worldn't doubt that tho Army /DIA hy had some hand in il,
espoctally - AL: the se-called sources claimed it cana out of PL, Gulick,

 
  
 

° pte ae sinations by the Agency: ‘said he had absolutely

no knowledge” ‘of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in the .

Agency during his tour, Not only were they prohibited by the Ager, |

they were counter-preductive, Tt was explained to him during hico

Agency tour that. ‘theré was a good chance of an assassination hack- —

firing; that wo. (Use). are more vulnurable to assassinations than |

the Cubans or’ Sovicts.. “Therefore, as far as he was conenrned, they!

wore strictly. verboton. - Edilorializine, a& ‘said it was too bad

that the upper-echolonstlid not believe. in this restriction. On top :

of that, they approached mafiosa to help them. (NOTE: & /is | |

rathor. anti-Kennedy; especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shoutin.: .. :

natch during a hearin ‘on the Bay of Pigs invasion. ) . : mo / |
|
i
t

    

he “Assassi Sination of of | Peruyero: Juan Jose Feruyero, a Bay
of Pigs veteran an ami. Yeader of the Brigade 2506, was runned dewn last
wwoek as he ‘left his homo in Miami, A ‘said the word on tho streal
vanony the - whan, community is that this was dona by tho PG] as al wasnioes
to the anti-Cubans: in Miami. Feruyero had no enemies - ho was not
sinto drugs, erimo, politics, ete. By killin him, the Cubans vere
«warning the community that they could strike anywhere and anyone.
. ‘Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens. If anyono else
chad been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on
the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, etc. A copy of an oditorial
from the Tampa” Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

 

 

 
