13-00000

‘as temporary.
_increments. Once the Board's staff has reviewed a group of

(FOUO) Conclusion: Our judgement is that the Agency
should comply with the JFK Board's request to transfer the
: ould clearly be documented
da be provided in

 

records, they would be returned to the Agency for final
review and sanitization, before they are released to the
National Archives. We plan to detail to the Board a small
number of reviewers from the Historical Review Group who
would control access to the documents and also assist in
coordinating the records review.

(FOUO) Unless you have objections, we plan to transfer
to the JFK Board the records requested by the Board's

Chairman. The ex will be contingent on the
installation of anfapproved security facility and’an
agreement on funding:
e Rech € dele.
John F. Pereira

CONCUR:
General Counsel «

concur: AL Sv CM DOO )

Operations

Ae tre che hE

 

re Jace
13-00000

Amandod Oui
ba oe

ATTACHMENT KRG,

 

Requirements for temporary transfer of CIA JFK Records to ARRB
offices.

1. Dedicated secure facility (SCIF). The JFK Board will convert
‘existing space into a CIA-controlled SCIF with:
a. New door allowing direct access

b. Alarm system

2. Communication/ADP Requirements:

a. Secure phone (STU III)

-b. Secure fax

¢. Two personal computers
3. Work areas for CIA personnel. Two-to-three HRG reviewers
will be detailed to the Board offices on a regular basis.
Additional workspace will be needed for “surge” reviewers when
required for on-site reviews.. Equipment requirements:

a. Six-to-eight open-shelf units for records

b. One floor safe

Cosh estimate: 5 ;
° Conslauct Con “ot SCLE — pard WE Kee R

© Glarw s chen rwelucls ya :
\ocles aS Ww she Wot a r 4 HOSS. Qo

( KRRAR wo W hor dhe “Cabaect | re ukusemet require (

© Secure FAK, STUTLA — 1S 00000
wel Wak Lar (O4N eshte

Pos, shelves, cate - hon exichwmy CST cesoues
Vote \ echwmeled nAd bared cone Bq s33.e8-

 

 
13-00000

D#HAFT
Fle } TH nsker

7 November 1996

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

THROUGH: Deputy Director for Operations
General Counsel
Director, Center for the Study
of Intelligence

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group,CSI

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request for Transfer
of CIA Documents

(U) This memorandum is for your information. It
summarizes arrangements between CIA and the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) to transfer
certain CIA records to the Board's offices.

(FOUO) Background: During a meeting with you on 16
October, ARRB Chairman John Tunheim requested that the
Agency transfer a large quantity of records related to the
JFK assassination. The request was based on the Board's
need to have the documents--totaling approximately 190,000
pages--reviewed by the Board's staff. Judge Tunheim and
other Board members consider a} tnwoxkable for these tdin
to review the documents in the uilding,
to which the records would be moved when the Center for the
Study of Intelligence moves there in mid-November.

 

 

(Cc) The principal issue raised by the request is one of
control over and protection of the sensitive CIA (mainly DO)
records once they are transferred to the Board's offices in
the District at 600 E Street, N.W. The Board has agreed to
construct a dedicated secure facility (SCIF), access to
which would be controlled by Agency personnel.

| wermn DCI Area Security Officer, has conducted a
prélitiinary survey of the space where the SCIF would be

located, and concludes that the proposed security to.

AP PONeMe REAM, Pe BGRERt able.
+ DPR DS Naren 28

(FOUO) A second issue concerns funding for the
construction of the SCIF. There would also be additional
costs for installation of a secure telephone and a secure
fax, which are needed to allow secure communications with

We are proposing that the Agency and
share the costs, but it is possible that the Agency
will be asked to reimburse the Board for whatever funds they
expend. In any event, we do not believe that the costs will

be great.

 

 

 
13-00000

Resource Requirements/impact

Note: Detailing two or three CIA reviewers to ARRB will
offset much of the negative impact of the move to IP. In
addition to controlling access to CIA records, these
reviewers would: .

1) perform quality control review of documents prepared
for the Board at IP [processing mistakes have been a
continuing problem in the review] .

2)handle questions from the ARRB staff consulting with
project officer and IP HRG/DO reviewers as necessary

3)Review HSCA material being held by ARRB and 3rd

Agency documents [a DO reviewer would join the HRG
reviewers when documents were ready for DO review]

.
13-00000

—_ CIA SPECIAL COLLE eh
CTIONS ae
RELEASE IN FULL

2000 21 October 1996

ARRB Proposals to Expedite Review of Assassination Records

I. Re-location of Sequestered Collection to ARRB site will
allow ARRB staff on-site access to identify relevant/key
files and documents, and review r Agency designated non-
related material.

Comment:
It is not feasible to transfer the entire collection
and continue CIA's review. Parts of the collection can be

transferred on temporary basis without impeding HRG's review
provided security and DO concerns are satisfied.

Security Requirements/Issues:

1) Agency Controlled Secure Area -- construction cost/who
pays? [ARRB should pick up this cost.]
2) Document Access Control:
a) During work-day --~ detailed CIA reviewers or
designated ARRB staffer?

b) after hours -- CIA guard « or existing guard force?
DO Concerns: :

Provided security requirements are met, DO has no
objections to portions of the JFK sequestered collection
being temporarily housed at ARRB site as needed for review.
{[Note: Fred W. is checking with DO security re requirements
for storing records off-site.]

HRG Requirements:

1) Office/ workspace for HRG project officer and two or
three reviewers.

[Depending on security requirements, 2 HRG reviewers could
either be assigned to ARRB on a regular basis or report
there as needed -- project officer will be visiting ARRB
site on regular basis.]

2) Secure phone and FAX (STU IIIs) is a necessity; video
Conference capability would enhance communications.

3) Computer support -- PC/Word Processing is a necessity;
direct link to HRG index would enhance capability to handle
ARRB Staff questions and expedite review.

4) Priority Courier Service from IP at ARRB
13-00000

II. Expedite the review of the Sequestered Collection by
focusing on most relevant files/documents and not sending
duplicates to the Board for action.

Comment:
HRG has already implemented a review focusing on

documents that have not been acted on by the Board;
duplicates are flagged and will be prepared for NARA later.

‘Due to the duplicate search, the amount of time for an HRG

reviewer to review a box has increased, but the number of
documents per box for action has decreased.

A targeted /subject approach (identify and review most
relevant material first) will be difficult to implement
given current state of HRG index.

Additional review and computer support will be need to
meet the Board's request.

Requirements:
1) Increase HRG re-review team to 4 or 5 reviewers.

2) Begin separate review of HSCA material including
documents held by the ARRB -- 2 reviewers.

[Note: HSCA material is a high priority of the Board;
however, since most HSCA documents are releasable in full,
the review generate few documents for Board action.]

3) Enhancements to the HRG index/data base will be required
to facilitate searching and identifying duplicates (work
already under way).

4) Communications and computer support -- same as Request I

III.
18-0000
. FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

ASSASSINATION BOARD

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address: “0ee=irkbma-Aue., N.W. a0 2 724 _webe
Aa wet Sthort Fay non-T ay - o¢ <4
loa sheng ea Pe., Adgoes
Contacts
Space: GSA: Calvin Snowden (202) 708-5702 pS foer meaty BR,
CIA: OS | x/43446) - eS;
{ { (703) (506-7446/ (open)
Security White House Office of General Counsel
Marvin. Crisloff
Clearances CIA: os _x40206) Ww
4s X35 es
FOL: K Cia Va nA viTa#
; jo
, A , Der - SSO we a)
Uifleosvea! CREIF Livoag Stove
al x Ya 62 ol , Cleexcace Divesiap
eee aa
xe TEX)

Board Chairman - Jack Tunheim (612) 296-2351

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
 

JOY +70337- 70900

POR“OFPECTAD USE-QUEY-

10 May 1994

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Jack Tunheim, Chairman
JFK Assassination Board

1. Asks to meet me Thursday, 12 May at Ames,
1:30 ~ General discussion.

2. Asks for advice on designing space

- wants security advice, especially on a
conference room.

2.3

- does not plan to keep many documents, but wants

secure space where we can discuss classified
information.

-~- Office at 633 Indiana Ave. Justice has part

of the building.

~- Contact on space: Calvin Snowden, GSA
- (202) 708-5702

3. Full Board meets on 31 May or 1 June, would like us

' to brief them.

4. Clearances: Board has to be "read in"

- Contacts for clearances: an
Marvin Crisloff
Office of White House Counsel

- White House Chief of Staff's Office is also
involved.

 

- OS told me three (3) Board members

are cleared: John Tunehim, Anna Nelson,
Kermit Hall. Further paper work needed on
Joyce and Graff.

 

 

ome

   

- me ‘to x43420
and std on zprow-xecub ity.
13-00000
ce fray FF
: ‘ ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY :

-~ 3“ CL Sace nk

From the Desk f ity DE WE ~ OTA, FE

_. Crag be sae cme

 

BPO Sa
NOTE FOR:
FROM: |
DATE: 05/12/94 03:14:26 PM
SUBJECT: Meeting with Jack Tunheim

| went into DC today to meet with Jack and look at the space on Indiana Ave. Two GSA reps, 3 FBI people, Jack and | walked through
the area. Looks like the modifications will be fairly easy and | am going to work up some options for Jack and his board to review. The
FBI says a few of their documents are TS. Do you have any idea if there are TS/SC] documents involved from our side {or any other
agency's side}?

ce:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
13-00000

FOR OFFICIAL: USE ONLY
11 April 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: JFK Board/Security

1. On 11 April, I received a call from the Chief,

Domestic Programs Division, Office of Security Operations
on the status of the Board's request for

security certification of their facility at 600 “E” Street.

2. Room 2617 in the Board’s office is approved for
storing classified materials. The entire space controlled
by the Board will be approved once all of the Board’s staff
receives SCI clearances. Requests for SCI clearances should
be sent by the Board to HRG for forwarding to Director,
Office of Personnel Security.

3. Loewe wee zon Bb? s office di hi curity
survey a et on 9 March 1995. an be

reached through the Division‘s front offic 7} secure,
703-506 7437/ open) . ; Soo

 

\_-“John Pereira

cc: File
Harrelson
Boyd
C/HRG

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
