14-00000

Pile on OSWALD and pass thea to us, end the FRE gave us a copy of the
Soviet Consular Pile on OSWALD which had been publicly given by the Soviet
Ambassador to the Secretary of State. On Friday 6 December 1963, Depaty

Attorney General Xatzenbach invited us to review the FBI's comprekensive

report on the case to make sure our sources were not jeopardized and that o

our information was correctly quoted. We found the report nighty

interesting and ne threat to our security, as long as it was read only

by the suthérized investigative bodies. ,
After the first few days, the CIA investigation of the ease was

handled nt Eesdguarters by a stall staf? ususlly charset with investigation

- pnd analysis of the most important security cases, and by a fev officers

and analysts of our Western Eemisphere Division.

3 Pro Mexico

_ As soon as cur Hexico City Station realized that Lee O2UALD wes the

prime suspect, it besan re-sereening all the uritten telephone transcripste _

in its files covering the Soviet Eubassy for the pertinent period. ‘the

actual tapes were also reyleved, but many of then haa been erased after the

 
14-00000

normel two weeks walt. Several calls believed to involve OSWALD were
discovered and taeir contents cabled to Washington, wheres they were
disserizatea to the White House, the State Departeent, the Federal |
Bureau of Investigation.

/ oswatnrs name was not actually mentionea in these eddittom’ calls,
but pinllarity of speech and varies plain points of content Link then’
to nine those calls are sumarized belov in chroncloyical onler.
they cover the perioa from 27 Septenber 1963 to 3 October 1963, the whole
gpan of OSWALD's visit to Mexico City as later learned froa travel secontes

27 Leptenber - A man phones the Soviet Military Attache abd

‘says he needs @ visa to go to Odessa. Man answering says he shovl@ call
15-60-55 and asic for the Consul. Caller asks for the address, aud it is

given to him, (There is no special reason for Linking this call to CS¥ALD.)

27 September, h:05 PH - ‘The Cuban Consulate phonad the Soviet '

Consulate. Eilivia Duran, Mexican national clerk of the Cuban Consulate

talked to a Soviet official, saying that a male American cltizen was eat the

Cuben Consulate asking for a transit visa to pass through Cuba on his way

7.

 

 

 
14-00000

 

our overseas stations, and many pleces of information on OSWALD and his
wife haa been recelyed back. ‘The Hexico City Station researched its
telephone taps very thoroughly and came up with several more conversations
probebly involving GSHALD, but not actually mentioning this name; these
connected him also to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City. lLeveral Mexicans
were arreste€ and questioned about his activities, giving & good picture
of shat he was really up to. Many conferences were held with the FAI
Liaison officer who asked us for certain getions and passed us information

from the FRE investigation. Om.tte minns side, a host of fabricatars,

50a anonymous, bombarded overseas cnbassies vith spudous tips on the case,

"most of which ve investigated. ALL of these are soon discredited, but they

are atill coaxing in,

During this phase of our work, we served primarily in suppart of the

a

FSI, which was entrusted by the President with the major responsibility for

the investigntion. The FAY was too busy to supply us with much of its

om information, but amwers were given to specific questions we posed to

assist our investigation. ‘The Department of State aid photosraph its entire

 

Ak
14-00000

 

AS the possible assassin and asking for traces. ‘The nessase was passed
on at once by the Chief CI, Me. Angleton, to Mr. Birch O'Heal of his
Special Investigations Unit. Mrs. Hetty Bgeter of this Unit immediately
recognized the name of Lee CSVALD and went for hia file. At the sane
tine, Mrs. Bustos of the Mexico Desk, wao had written our Pirat feport on
CSWAED on 10 Octobex xeceytend the nates fuos radio reports and went
after the same file. br. Reichharit, Mexico Dest Chie?, who yes howe on )
tose, heard the news and phoned in a reminder that ve had something on
OSWALD. While we were preparing a cable to Mexico City asking then for

>

rere inforwation on OSWALD, Mexico City itself heard OSVALD's name on the

Yolce of Anevica broadcast and cabled to us a reminder of the information

the Station had sent in on hin.
Por the next week, @ dozen people in the Agency vere contimously

sazased in handling incoming messaces on the case, writing reports to be
eabled out, tracing the names mentioned, and researching filles. Within a

week, 27 cabled reports had gome.out to the White House, the State Depart~

.

ment, and the FEI. Many cables of guidance ana inquiry had been sent to

 

 
14-00000 :

 

Embassy was not CEWALD anyway. As chance would have it, none of our

several photo obsemtion points in Mexico City had ever taken en identi-

fiable picture of Lee OSWALD.

Our Mexico Clty Station very often preduces Information like this
on US eltizens contacting Sevies bloc embassies in Mexico Clty. Frequently —
the information ve get is extresely incriminating, and on one or two |

7 ocensions we have even been able to apprebend and return to the USA
Anex'toan military yersennel who are attempting to defect. In all such
cases, our Hesdquarters desk requests ani obtains the special pensission of
the Deputy Dixector for Plans to pass the derogatory information on a US
“eltizen to other goverment agencies. Derogatory 4nformation on: Americans
ia not treated routinely; in each éase tha DD? or his Assistant yerserally
scrutinise the snformation make sure it is credible, end decide vhether and :
to whoa it will be passed. onty in absolute emergencios ts the sexico Glty
a . - a

Station authorized to pase such information directly to the FO office in
the U3. cnhesey. |

At this writing (13 December 1963) ve ao not know whet actioa the FBI

PAARL T . : ®
Ee i a .
eee]

as

 
14-00000

 

 

and other auencies may have talen based on cur report. We surmise that the
PDI may have made local checks throuch Mexicen authorities to see if

Lee OSWALD was actually in Mexico City on 1 October. Imiesd, Later in-
vestization has confirmed all the details of his trip, where he stayed,
end uhat he did. To avoid crossing linea with the FBI, om Mexien Station
undertook no local fuvestigation of its ow. AS ve now know, OSWALD lest
Mexico on 3 October and was no longer there wren our report was put cist.

' Since this

took

 

_ Plate.

22 Novenber 1953
When word of the shooting of President Kennedy reached the offices ,

of our operating aivisions and staffs on the afternoon of Friday 22 Noven-

-~

ver 1963, transistor radisa were turned on everywhere to follow the
tragedy. When the name of lee OSWALD was heard, the effect vas electric.
A phone message from the FBI came at about the same time, naming OSWALD:

ey
sh

t
ae

 
14-00000

. the Euhassy the previous Saturday (23 ceptenber 1963) end spekea to a

 

We Discover Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

GIA aid preduce one very sigificant pleea of Information on Lee
OSWALD wetore he shot President kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our Mexico
City Station intercepted a telephone call Lee OSWALD made from someplace
4n Mexico City to the Soviet Embassy there, using his own mage. Speaking
broken Russian an@ using his true name, CONALD wag talking to the Enbassy
eeart, cpvensoy, who often answers the phone. OSWALD sald he naa visitea

.

consul wasse name he had forgetten, and who had promised to send a tele-

»

gram for him to Washington. Ee wanted to know 4f there were "anything

new.” ‘the guara sald if the consul was dark it was (Yeleriy Vladmirovich)
KOSTIXOY. The guard checked with someone else and said that the ressage
had gone out but nod answer bad been recedved. He then hung op.

This piece of information wpe produced from a talephons tap

 

 

 

 

 

 

Is

 

 

 
104-10082-10279

 

| {/ uneeassipiep ©” () INTERNAL ‘Cl conripenriat © =] secret
oO ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

 
 
 

. § SUBJECT: (Optional)

 

  
  
    
   

EXTENSION:

5633 — - -
YS DWec-\4b3 idee py wt

bate OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
| seceven | romwaaoeo | INITIALS: to whom. Draw o line across column after each comment}

Attacked for your Anformation, - |
otoment, and corvection 12 the.
original, unexpurgated version ef 4
the repert on GPYLOOR covering «of |
OSWALD's stay in Mexles end ine - | !
@loding summaries of the telapzens ||
_| Sakarceytae This say be useful te |
you analysts whe are processing . | |
ihe rest of the material and to thal ;
people preyeting,the firal. resert.

 
 
    

DATE

   
  
  
 

 

 
  

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

  
        
   

esrtain anomt ef analysis, beeansal |
the naked facts scomad te enll for] |
it. These thoughts are may ome - | |
Feel free to make your own analysis) “i

Xf you have aay casrectioas to malzal
please vrite them on this draft and
return it tome, Iwill retern the} |
arazt te you 47 you want It. ° \

 

Tis repart was written Zoe Anters ek
use only and was not meant te he.
used outside the Agency. m -

 

 

sae 610 “sre "oO SECRET | a CONFIDENTIAL «7 USE OMY > oO! ‘UNCLASSIFIED a
14-00000

 

is highly secret and not known to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which are transeribed and reviewed by our

 

 

saall staf? in Mexico City. By 9 October, the OSWALD telephone conversa-
sion of 1 October hea been transcribed and a suomary of it cabled to

Washington. The name Lee CSWALD meant nothing specisl to cur Mexico

| City Station, but in their report they did judge him to be an American

rale.
The cabled ‘report was received in Washington on 9 October and checked

in our files, where 1b was immediately nobea that the Lee OSWALD phoning |

the Soviet Exbassy in Mexico City was probably the Lee QSWALD whe hed

defected to the Soviet Union in 1959 and returned to the USA in 1962. On
10 October 1953, the day after the report from Mexica City, CIA Heatquarters

sent out a cabled report about Lee OSYALD'’s phone call to the Soviet
- .

Exbassy3 the report went to ths Pal, the Departuent of State (because

COWALD was a US citizen), and to tha avy Department (because he vas a

former Marine.) ‘The cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

GERaly ,
nid :

 
14-00000

Likiihsod that the Lee OZNALD mentioned was pronably the former defector.

A copy of this same cable was delivered by hand to the Imslsration and

Raturslization Service, with which we have no cable Link. The sane day

a long cable vent out to Mexice City informing owr Station of the back-

ground of aafector Lee OSWALD and asking for more information. Cur Statios
vas instructed to pass its inforsation on the phone call to the Meteo

ity offices of the FBX, the Eubassy, the Naval Attache, and the tmigra:
tfon ova Faturaltsation Service. his was dome.

In its original report of 9 October, Mexico City hed sata it had a

photograpa of an apparent American wale leaving the Sorlet Embassy on

- 2 Seteber 1953, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

in vewteo City provides ns vith ceeretty taken photographs of many but rot .
au visitors to the Soviet Eubassy there, taken with telephoto lenses. 7
Accordingly, we cabled the Bary Departrent oa 2h Oetober 1563 asking for

a photograph of Lea OSWALD from bis Marine Corpa days 30 we coata congas
photos. We haa not received this photograph by 22 Fovenber 1963, but in

any event, it turned out that the man photesraphea outside the Soviet

a

 

 
