14-00000

 

v

-_ SECRET

pa Derisz the sprii: of 1956 « foreionar, visiting Finland,
bsrsafter referred to es Rource, received an invitation to looture fa
the Servlet Unien, A chart tloa Later, when Source wa a dining in @ :
" 9 Whorly GW ska + Lk, wo Sevres tiuinks te odthey

8 Conmal or View Consil sf tas Sevtet labawey in Bolaind, end (frm) RASER,

B at the “orlet Txbasay the ext day, OLS hed

Just eagleted an interview with eome Minish ettizeus who had ésking

bisa of mecbera of their feuilies from tho 2, OS
quite storn es opposed to tha pleasant gide of bis persenality

i
ft
i

he OR and VORIIX appeared for dinnur with Source on the appetnted
date, bat RISER did nut cas, Sores asked OCLIA why RASEY hed oot mene, and
COLLG gare hin a son-cumiltal exewor. Later in the eventaz OLDE called
Bouyee sales ad anid tbat he had to sea. congtantly with peeple Liuxs
FAT, but resemts the fact that ble wife sagt aincle wlth ther somally,
to tule that 10 te necessary to wor Fimle Coa dave eenitent ee ee
trusted. :

So Both OCLE: eat VUFSTH eppoar to have bea in faleinks fora.
ember of Fosra, and Source doubted Lf they oad been assigned

SECRET
74-00000

eZee

29na eutaids af tha TEER bofres thts. Beth told bis thas thay bad gttsneded
orauxiary echod! aod the °Lenreace Tred itutes

& Wen Sows laf’ fer the foviech ten, both OCU amt RTE may
Bt. Aff of tte station, -
Te Origarty (CLI was deseribed as chovt $*6", abort 165 Tha, 20
Jory black savy baby with low hairelins, dara ares, well éresesd -
wits western oxite, gave his ase to Corres as either Jl ev 32, bern ia
Qiensa ex Euarbev, very plaseant and jovial, with a good censo af bane
Ro $9 worrlede
@, | Purly VORCATY was described 20 S*9%, dcut 170 Ihe, Gling md”
Giasess, veil Songea be waa 3h genre eld, aliehtiy tense, Senate placa bat
hag @ poor sense ef tmwor, exd io rather eerions, fo ia married,
You SERV wes docorined ap about $6? 180 Tht, pleases, OGD
ears Gare tay and eyeay B9 glaonane °

|

 

 

 

SECRET
 

 

 

 

&

°

&

PGF HU} (608

oboe amex a / |e Dec 486

 

SOURCE: Frofessor of Mathematics at a large U.S, University vho vas
in Helsinki on a Fultright Grant.in Higher Mathenatics.

1. In late March or early April 1955, Source was writing sn article
on higher mathematics ani bai occasion to quote an old article vritten by
Prof. IVERSEN. Frof. IVERSEN is a Finnish mathematician in Helsinki,
winner of a Stalin Peace Prise, and according to Source was @ good mathe. —
matician at one time but ocyv interested only in "Comanist peace” mattere.
Source called on IVSRSSN, vith whom he says he has quite gocd relations,
ani, a8 courtesy vould demini, asked permission to quote IVERSSN's article.
IVERSEN was delighted at Source's interest in the article, gave permission
for him to quote it, andinquired if Source would consider going to the USSR
for a speaking invitation. Source said that he would be interested.” ~~

2. A few weeks after his talk with IVERSEN, be received an invitation
to give several lectures in the USSR. ‘The invitation vas from the USSR :
Academy of Sciences and signed by Prof. SOBOLEV, who bad also written...
Prof. IVERSEN about this watter. : .

3, Soon after receiving the invitation Subject and his wife vere in
thebar of @ restaurant in Eelsinki, the Kalastajtorppa, translated as —
“pisherman's Cottage", when Gregorei GOLOB, whom Source thinks is’ either
a Consul: or Wice Consul at the Soviet Embassy there, end fu RASKE,@

’ Pinnish Communist, both came up ‘to his table and introduced thenselves.

GOLOB méntioned Source’s imminent trip to the USSR. GOLOB and RASKE sat
down and GOLOB began to discuss the trip further. Source feele that

GOLOB'a interest my bave been prompted by the fact that Prof. SOBOLEV had .
{eaued the invitation on tebalf of the USSR Academy of Sciences. GOLOB

bad about § ‘drinks before he and RASKE finally left, Source remarked to
GOLOB earlier that be was not sure that he would be able to manage the

trip to the USSR financially. GOLOB said he didn't think this would be

any special problem ani asked him to come to the Soviet Enbassy the
following day to meet the Cultural Attache, who. could arrange to get him to
the USSR ard back without cost. -At one point in the conversation after thay
had had several drinks, Source shoved GOLOB a picture of hie children. GOLoB

‘became quite emotional ani almost wert. He remarked that he and his wife have

wanted to have children for the past six years, but have had no success. On
ing Source invited COLOS and RASKE to come with their wives to his home
for dinner the following Supiay. Both accepted. GOLOB asked if Source
would be shot inviting a. Soviet official to his home, and he replied that he
would. not. GOLOB-said that be didn't think he would be either. GOLOB insisted
on paying the. entire check and they departed. — . :

_  %, ‘The following morning Source went to the Soviet Embassy as arranged
the night before to meet Yori VORONIN, the Soviet Cultural Attache and VOKS

“yepresentative. Indicently, neither VORONIN nor GOLOB are listed in the

 

 
 

[foetorratosdg] -
:_ RETURN TO CIA

 

 

ave Doe ; : Background Use Only
q vi : + Do Not Reproduce

~“ “ y

SECRET

aa
AT. (Crsucoe ,
MaLOLGe
sod ab wt _
~, (Gt.

“nlef af Station, AS Dec SG

 

 

 

Crhaft,

Str Aer es -
mrncarALIvPe VE :
eB .

Refer aoe LE». O duly 1968 (2212)
on

 

  

pelea a; 2 hy LS (20 .9120L42)
Caf 1202, 15 Jane 19% ol

. ; ;
ACTION MEWUTSE's Page etlgatrent 2 tofkacc yi] per pera J belay, |

le Sublect wag queat aad be aa 4 officer da early anton 1956, Tee
partion af the cstrieling of iareciste tatarest to you, oonrérning Subjert's
gontasta with uricorty “iT axa. C, Purty Meola-evich Vtceta esd faa
SEATEYEV, ureio.ateciy aca ivan Yatiosleh tor 2ULT, avpears in atigecomad a
to thia digpatch, #o cannet Sdantsts tee “Lacish Gonrunlet, fra R4555, {
mentionyd (1 the attactnent. Noweres, ‘Crofeager) TYTAIIM {s probably
(Prefessor) Folia TWESUR, member 0° varic:e “awraniat frent erpaisationss - og

Be. In addtit.on to Subject'’s hoot, paracraph 12 of the attsotment, thet ~
bo will ‘e able ta return to ieleincl in LIST, ba alzo indloated te tha
Anterrogator that he a pitt wid to revisit the Sovict Trdon at eons Mtare
date, Ee was also cencernod that hie amorierd at tho University ef Riekivaa
eight take a din view of the fact thet he beed roported to TCA’ wittent fired
olearing with tren, ond indicated tiat publicity af any sort cicht jespard-
ise bis pogitian in the wilsersity ax his chaoces of rutumtiar to Finlast,
To Unie wo mls, of cars, that it wal’ ales rinuer tho changse of kis ever

petting to une ccvtat “tone .\r Ueso reasons, we think that the WEDS

proposal, Hoference A, sould probavly sot be pursved further.

Se On tha etfachanes that 46 a be of Suture operational interest ;
foe it WEISOM, ECAP, or otnarcdiae), vo do sot think that comleta éets a
af Sabject'a metin-g with feviets ly eletukl should bs passed tof fac ne/L\0l
Attechmant 2, hoverer, io a a rithce’ version of Jwbject's report, wish
gan ba given to[ta’.Nt/fjat “erdleto:'s dlecretion, Any information the

(waccrnss] hawe ca CUS » of eocrse, be appreciated. .
i ° .

 

 

  
 
  

 

nee + be Attactmott #3 is a RRA Sotebook sneet en tricuriy IS.
SH/CE s/f
. 7 206
lnelw/stt LAze © Cheha
o ~/La/att ame. 2 athe .
Ath: 1, 2 wh ce SECRET : WARD oat)

4

MTL By Bee S85 pages Baek
 

 

  

ScGhET

Helsinki telephone directory and it is always necessary to bave an \
appointment to see them. When Source arrived COLOS bad just completed a
somevhet ruthless interview vith some Finnish mothers, who had been begging
of him to allow the return of their sons from the USSR. GOLOB appeared
quite stern as opposed to the pleasant side of his Fersonality displayed

the previous evening. \

5. GOLOB introduced Source to VORONIN, who was particularly cordial
and egreed to finance thefour or five day trip to the USSR in May. VORONIH
asked if Source's invitation to GOLOB for Sunday was still gocd and asked if |
he and his wife could come too. .In effect, VORONIN invited himself, though
Source said he was glad to have him. Source met fnu SERGEYEV briefly later
in the interview. Source believed SERGEYEV to be GOLOB's chief. -

6. GOLOB and VORORIN appeared on Sunday with their vives bearing @

great many presents, more than the custom would require. They brought tvo

‘ bottles of Stolichnaya champagne, costing 25 rubles for a half liter, which
Source thought to be Russia's finest, also a bottle of vodka, chocolates for
the children, and several other small gifts. RASKE and hie wife did not
appear. Actually Source was disappointed that RASKE did not come as he had
enjoyed very much talking with him at the Kalastajatorppa the week tefore.
RASKE hed said that he was a travel agent and shoved Source hia passport,
which indicated that he had travelled virtually the vorld-over and even to
Kenya and other parts of central Africa. Source inquired of GOLOB why RASKE
had not come and GOLOB gave him a non-commital answer. 7

7. Later in the evening GOLOB called Source aside while in Source's
study and said to him, "this RASKE is a swine." He said that he had to deal
constantly with such people but resents the fact that his wife must mingle
with them socially. He felt that it is necessary to use these Finnish
Communiste politically but that they cannot be trusted. .

&. ‘he conversation became quite free as the three men drank a liter
of champagne and a fifth of Stotch. The wives conversed very little during
the evening. VORONIN kept asking Source questions about life in the United
States--how much professors sre paid, how many cars Americans own, etc. At
first he asked the questions for the purpose of pointing out that conditions
were better {n the USSR, but later said that he bad hed 4 number of miscon-
ceptions about the United States and warmed up somewhat. He said that he
had never met an American family and Source felt that his curiosity vas

genuine.

9. The three discussed their general backgrounds freely. In all their
conversations they used Finnish, which both of the Soviets knew rather vell.
They dic not appear to know other languages. Both had apparently been in
Helsinki for a oumber of years, and Source doubted if they had been assigned
anywhere else outside of the USSR before this. Source said that they had ~
both told him that. they had attended secondary school and the “Language
74-0000

 

Institute", which I presume is either the Institute of International -
Relations or the Higher Diplomatic School. Source thought that both

were hard Comministe, although they admired she material accomplishments

of the United States. Re our earlier report that GOLOB professes sympathy
for the United Status, Source feels that this statement probably means caly
that GOLOB expressed to him that the United States and the Soviet Union must
try earnestly to understand the point of view of the other and bargain in
Good faith. He, as well ag VORONIN, 16 very much a Soviet Communist, ani

not defectable,

10. VORONIN called Source on 7 April saying that it would be dest mt
to plan his trip to the USSR for May Day as had been originally planned since |
there vould be @ great many dignitaries in Moscow then and it would be difficult
to arrange adequate accommodations. VORONIN asked if he could go the following
week. Source replied.that he could not aa he was scheduled to leave for E=gland
on & May. to give a series of five lectures there. Assting til the end’ of May.

11. The trip. was postponed until late “June. - Source left Helainki for
Moscow on 22 June and returned 8 July. Both-GOLOB and VORONIN sav him off
at the train station. This was his last contact with them. In summary,
Source feels that they did not have any undue interest in him. They may have
been asked through channels to te particularly cordial to him because
Prof, IVERSEN snd Prof. SOBOLEV had inatigated his invitation to the USSR.
Also they had a normal curiosity to meet an American fomily. .

' 12. If Subject can obtain grants for the trip, be hopes to return
to the University of Helsinki next summer. After a week's visit to Englani,
he hopes to attend the Scandianavian Congress on Mathematics following which
he is to speak at the World Conference on Complex Variables in Helsinki. He
will see Prof. IVERSEN, with whom he saya he baa quite good relations, ard

will look up GOLOB and possibly VORONIN.

13. Gregorei GOLOB was described as about 5'6", about 165 lba., no
glasses, long black wavy hair vith low hair-line, dark eyes, vell dressed

with western suit, gave his age to Source as either 31 or 32 and born either

Odessa or Kharkov, very pleasant and jovial with good sense of humor. Has
very attractive wife, name unknown.

Yk. Yurd VORONEN was described as 5*9", about 170 lbs, slim, no
glasses, told Source he was 34 years old, slightly tense, pleasant but
bas poor sense of humor, rather serious. His wife, firet name unknown,
is a professional ballet dancer and ig consequently not with him much of

the time.

15. Fou SERGEYEV, encountered for only a few minutes at the Soviet
Eubassy, about 5'6", 160 loa., pleasant, age about 45, dark hair and eyes,
no glasses. .

crocgT

4
u
