 

 

 

Foe ele eg tne eee ne

se 7

 

f

SEGRET

’

10 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Rogelio CISNEROS

1. Subject was called at his Miami home on % May 1965,
by: the undersigned using the alias Albert Antonelli.
CISNEROS had attempted to contact his former case officer,
Alfonso Rodriguez, the day before, but failed. :

2. Briefly, for the readers not familiar with his
mame, Rogelio CISNEROS was a former leader in the Junta
Revolucionaria (JURE), organized and directed by Manuel
RAY Rivero. In September 1964, in difference tu RAY's
leadersnip and organizational qualities, CISNEROS resigned

3. In an effort to keep him out of our hair as he's .
been on “UBARK's payroll since 1960. we proposed ‘that he an
prepare a study on the Cuban secondary education systez- .
before and after Fidei Castro. Aii arrangement for payment $
were made through a third party. He was paid a sum of . :
$1200 for eight-typewritten pages - double spaced, a
project any non-Cuban could have written in less time : i
and expense. : . : :

 

4. In November 1964 CISNEROS asked for an additional
$650 for the study so that he coulc enroll at the
University of Michigan's intensive xaglish language course.
He was denied the additional sum, but went to the University
anyway. He began the course in January 1965.

5. CISNEROS has now completed the course and has
returned to his home and family in Miami. He feels that
with this new ability to speak and understand English,
he is. better equipped to continue the anti-Castro effort.

 

 

 

aed

 
 

([ioetotest001g]

eye

 

(Cy cnaassieieo  () aa 0 con” Entiat (Ck secret’
ROUTING. AND RECORD SHEET

 

 

 

boddong} . omeres | cousaves Prhunter exh comme to shew fom whem
; oe, _ Brow 6 hea exons coivewn cher each commant. 1

 

 

 

 

Cl, xf : peek
Syke ghly oe
7 24 1 tAue
Fr Lid
Gut at Ax ne

 

 

weelese ERPS
pn take sty an

 

|é- BOLE é, :
tebe. f° Cece vea| | i
| AL Bed . .

wie Lomasezne |:

6. Ee |

i . | |

 

An lew Feta ~E WIE,

u tt kel cae eu Coes Ltaee fotmen Hat (7

| IST... welie eve crud enah

| ee
a ial ake |
rE ey © | —
pt (iswercss | |

me 610 “ness O sec Oo CONFIDENTIAL) (RAY) UNCLASSIFIED

 

Yon

Cp Nyptay Ree lege ee

 
 

 

1.
{

0 Tamera,

A Stee nei AF MAN Ache ne ce in

   

~2o

eee pea gett e

‘6.° CISKEROS stated that while at the University he
became acquainted with’some young Dominicans and ‘reportedly
he developed a good rapport with the men, He wondered out
loud if any use could be made of the friendship in view of
the activities in Santo Domingo. The undersigned Listened
attentively, but made no effort to edvce further information

on this subject. :

7. CISNEROS, as a recent "graduate", is interested in
a job and implied that he would like to work for KUBARK.
The undersigned indicated to him that jobs were scarce. but
that his interest in employment will be passed along to
“my superiors". The undersigned closed the conversation by
promising that, he would call during the week of 10 May and
convey any message received from “upstairs”.

8. RECOMMENDATION: Unless the readers feel there may be
some value to CISNEROS' Dominican contacts, this writer opines
that we should not get involved with CISNEROS again,and that
he should be told there is no work available for him at the
present, but should something open-up in the future we will
certainly keep him in mind. Reason: After bis’ resignation
in September 1964 CISNEROS wanted Al Burt, Miami Herald
reporter, to do a news story on RAY pointing up the following
facts: ,

a.. That RAY was a tool of the U. S. State -
Department and received $25,000 per month from the
U.S. Government. (CISNEROS reportedly said that he
could doucment alli facets of RAY's funding.)

b. That RAY knows his failure to infiltrate
Cuba embarrassed his State Department friends, but
State will continue to back him as their betrayed
revolution thesis can be tied only to RAY'’s star
and as this theme has been sold to the United
States Government at policy levels, despite the
objection of EKUBARK, State has no alternative but to
back RAY. ,

CISNEROS did not go through with this plan, but he will always”
use this as a peg to blackmail. .We have no obligation to : i
place CISNEROS on the KUBARK payrolls, either directly or Se
indirectly. He is undoubtedly witting of KUBARK's financial
role in RAY's aborted attempts to infiltrate Cuba, but
payments to RAY are untraceable, It is doubtful} that an

   

 

_\. iS —_ _t ye

a td

—

 
 

- SECRET

: : og :
nye expose on the KUPARE/RAY relationship would enlighten anyone,
i ' aS many x per ters have speculated that RAY was being assisted

by KUBARK or someother agency of the United States Government.

9. Should it be warranted, this writer is Willing to
debrief CISNEROS further on his Dominican friends,

10, Your comments are requested. ie

 

 

 

 

 

SEGTET

° Le a pgs aan th lA a i oA tenn meee a :

 

 

 

 

 

 
