   

 

ROUTING 4NO RECORD SHEET

Te nr pte eee

a

 

     

COMMENTS

 

 

RETURN Tg

- remem — Background :; CA
: Use ©.
fim [| Ano Do Not Reproduce’

 

 

 

aucvosue ~ Aearmact Fie wewore
INDEX

eRe ae A ke a et gee

: H
CATE wr eurr wee Oocverat are jOttverar aveen

26 JUN 1959 | [Ror 22

 

"SR" gion eronee
104-10172-10305

-

Fm ee

 

| DISPATCH

CNtef af Stati:
Chef of Stati

  
  
 
      

Ihe atten ae

Pcl » 150156 (0, Ye. QUA

 

    
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
   

Chief, La

 

25 Jun i959

  
 
 
    
   
        
     
    
 
 
  
     
    
  
  
      

Col] - origerty Ye. SOLES and W. MUXTEY

“Td

TUE

[9%] .o7s

1. Origory Yo. OOLIB cans to Finland as a Vics Conml tn 1955, In late Decenber
1956 he was promsted to Second Searetary and Chief of the Conmular Section, Sevist
Eebasay. Froa tnfornation civen ty several sources, we have compiled the following
Gescription of COLUB and some beckyround data.

 

 

 

 

oo far have not been so blessed. sain interest in eports was acing.

§ovial, congenial and peened te enjoy

“1.3. fo cna pource COLUB stated he had served in Vienna, Warsaw, Buéapest,
Sweharest and Sophias while te another he stated that Helginki was his first foreign
arsigmment. It is poesible that GIB ssant Releinkd was hie *first foreign ascign-
ment" outside the Soviet Bloa (if he had served in Vierma during the ocoupation), or
ba could have been deliberately attempting to confuso, Ee han conversed chly in
Ressian-and Finnishy however, he stated that he had attended the Lancuage Institate,
We suspect that he also knows wore English but xy feel reluctant to converses in
Bogiieh. ;

4. GOUIB's predecessor was a known RIS officer, probably KB, Ve euspect that
CCLOB is now the top KUB officer in Helsinki, Althoagh ve have no cancrete evidence
for this suspicion, we feel: that COLIB's interest in Westerners generally and in
perticularly in his apposite musbers in Western installations in Helsinki ig more then
would bo called for by his position. a

5. BS 2074, when show a newspeper photo af OCIUB, stated that GOLUBI Pace was
fexiliar, When DS 207 wea told OCL9's nase, Source replied that there was a lien=
tenant colonel with this name in the XB, Source sould not renecber the direstarate
bert thoucht possibly it might have been a technical section. Soures knew that Lt. Col.

GOLCS wae a "fairly high boss.” DS 207k could not recall whether he hed ever seen
Lt. Ceol. OCLUB to know hin so he did not know if the OOLIB in the newephote was
identical with the Lt, Col, CCLUB of the MIB.

6. Me would appreciate any further inforeation'on GOLOS whieh aight substantiate
eur meptieions of his intelligence astivitises,

fo identify positively the H. MAXEEY. We have written to

.
fons fer sere information on the RUCEYs uho have been

are.

e and

ate theew areas. FOR YOCR IXTORMATIW OWLY:

 
  
   
  
  
  
 

formerly aestamed as « TASS eorre spondent ‘to London
Attacts to the Soviet
Londoa and Ronn he was Suspected of wnvaging ia inte
ue to identify Aim,

ff Jame 159 SEC Carola rl Jorner

Pieters be reel pee
d- De SE Yertan

 

Embesay, Boon frou February 1954 to about May 1957,

oe!
2 + MF,

The description of the N. FULEZY

Bow aseigred to Finland, more pearly fite thet ef Mikalay Geraatmovich MAKKEV who was

fro 1950 to 195) and as Cultural
In both

Uigence dotivities, We would

appreaiale recetving inforsatica on tha He MAIEEY, now in Beleinict, which wight help

Fave, RB. Canon

anata

    
 
 

 

 
1400000

 

 

    

 

 
  
 

 

UY pe ee, Er ie ee :
DISPATCH CL eer). ave
~ Gree of iy | Pod = 150156 (0. Ye, Bows)

    

   
  

Fea TT re 257

   

“ol a- Origoriy Ye. QOLUS and BH. MAKTSY

ep | - -

ear:

TU caajsrs |
2. Origory Ye. OCLUB cans to Minland as a Vieo Consnl in 1056, In late Decenber

1956 he was pronoted to Second Secretary and Chtef of the Consular Section, Sevist

Eebasgy. Fro information given ty several goumes, wa have compiled the following
ésscription of COLUA and some backsround data,

 

 

 

   

 

   
 

  

 
       
      
  
 

2. Ho was born ebout 1975 in the environs of efther Gigesa ex Kharkov. He
prosdly asserted that he was a Ulrainian, Daring World War IT he was a colonel ia

    
 

3. fo ene source COLUB stated he had served in Vienna, Warsay, Budapest,
Beebarest and Sophia; while to another he stated that Helsinki was his firet foreign
eesiqmont. It is possible that GUS meant Ralainkt was his "first foreign assign
mant® cuteida the Soviet Bles (if he had served in Viena during the occupation), or
Ba could have been deliberately. attexpting to confuses, He has conversed oly in
Feealan and Firnniehy however, he stated that he had attended tire Lanruage Institute,
Wo sugpect that he also knows em English but =ay feel relustamt to converse in

       
   
     
    

&. GOUMB*s predecessor was a know RIS officer, probably HUB. ¥e suspect that
GOLUB ia now the top X08 officer in Neleinit. Although vo have no cancrete evidence
for this suspicion, we feel that GOLUB's interest in Westersers generally and in
particularly in his opposite musbers in We: rn installations in Helainkd is more than
would be salled for by hia position. nee

      
        
   
 

bat thouxht possibly it might have been technical gection. Sources. knew that Lt. Col.
€0L03 was a ®fairly high bess.” BS 207k could not recall thether he hzd ever seen
Lt. Col. GOLUB to knew him so he did not
identical with the Lt. Col. OCLUB of the MIB,

  
   

   

6. We would avpresiate any further information on OGLUS whieh might substantiate
eur meptoions ef hig intelligenes activities,

  

‘10/88

 
