MEMORANDUM FOR:

SECRET | \ Fee

Chief, Historical Review Group

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point for ARRB

Position on Release of Cryptonyms, Country
Designators, Action. Indicators and Employee. True
Names” .

During the period since the ARRB last met, the DO has
considered the four issues listed below that have not yet been
addressed with the Board. These issues appear throughout the JFK
collection and ‘by stating our position up front we hope to
facilitate the Board’s review and to reach an agreement that wild
be mutually satisfying to the Board and the Agency.

Cryptonyms ~ “Except for cryptonyms related to~
operational assets or activities involving’ "Mexico. or Miami,
the Agency will release the main component of cryptonyms and
withhold only the two-letter digraph.: Treating cryptonyms
in this manner will. protect the nationalities of individuals
and operations that are not pertinent to. Oswald or the SEK
investigation and render an easier reading of the written.

material.

Country File Designators - We will delete the first
element of operational activity and. operational interest
files in those instances when the credibility of’ the.
narrative is not affected. The first element of the file
number corresponds to the alphabetical position of the
country name which is easily discernible, whereas the
subsequent two elements relate to type of petivity or
interest and specific subject.”

Action Indicator (Slug) Lines - Generally, we will
release the entire-action indicator line of a document. |
Occasionally, however, we will withhold portions when the

CL BY 0695930 | ;
- DECL OADR' |. :
DRV HUM 4-82 -*

cept

SECRET
 

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SECRET

8 November 1995

Jeremy Gunn,
ARRB Staff

Barry Harrelson,
CIS/CSI/HRG

Issues re Cryptonyms, Country
Designators, Action Indicators and
Employee True Names (U)

Attached is memorandum from the DO Focal Point for, the
ARRB addressing the release of cryptonyms, country*””
designators,:action indicators and employee true names. The
memorandum is intended to provide guidance to you and your
staff and complements information provided in previous

€ opportunity to discuss

discussions. Ellie and I welcome th

these issues with your staff. (U)

Attachment

 

Unclassified When Separated

From Attachment.

SECRET

 
+ SECRET

SUBJECT: Position on Cryptonyms, Country Designators,. Action
Indicators and Employee True Names

context identifies a source or a relationship with a
specific liaison service.

True Names of Staff Employees ~ In most instances we .

will release names of ‘employees who have retired in an overt
status and were serving in Headquarters when cited in a
document. We will continue-to protect the true names of
employees cited as serving in a field position. References
te field personnel in true name are uncommon, however, since
pseudonyms are normally used in correspondence between
Headquarters and. the field. .

 

 

redrickZt . Wickham, Jr.

2

SECRET
