 

TV ird Qe ary) R es onal weAanmer tO
Achestans Avom Bkeshed MEK Y
TO | Leo peck BWARESTAAS and

“Progecs NORCO

 
74-00000

SoS BS gy

+

  

can be determined, gigeche, "fronted" for all arrangements,

ll. Security Office oy ote conducted variously from

23 May through 17 Septemb of Sipiimigihiete reflected no sub-
stantive derogatory information germane to the case.

 

t

i

.
i

|

i

H

i

i

;

{

|
“4
yeann00
.. fe . »

7 os * a . . : AS Bal ;
, on. tha relationship became more pointed, some public mention had

been made of the @pdiMii@ebackground of gio and thus itt became
increasingly important that the New York meeting be carefully arranged.

6. ont Apesl_—_lat] ood eaten,
after appropriate security arrangements, were transported to Long
Beach, Long Island, where the residence of Soe. ee
was taken over as the meeting place between bs

aiitiniiiegere Later the same day,. by Prearrangement, two Department

 

     

of State Security Agents, a New Yo lice Lieutenant and
a hired chauffeur arriyed wi anes emained
at the site thru 18 Apri party visited

 

 

 

each evening, remaining for about four to five hours.

7. During the stay at the Long Beach site,¢
discussed the publicity in the case at aoma length with the Security
representative. She speculated about the possible sources of certain

personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press,

She spoke of her depth of feeling for, at commented

on how Mr. connie ee y sought her out to serve

as a party companion fo At the time, she said she was
unclear as to just what part Mr. G93» wanted her to play and in
attempting to clarify his request, @S@@Mi@& said, "1 am employed by
the CIA. We want you to go to bed with him, " api continued
to say that she rejected the proposal, but finally went to the party 6

and that it developed that the relationship between her and
transcended what had been suggested.

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

8. Following the departure of
at the request o Division, the oeice of eee ity assist
arranging means,of communication be a

From thru October the Security Office
assisted th ivision in the handling examination of personal
correspondence Betweentiigmas and The jasterecorded
action by the Security Office in this case was ctohe! :

 

2

9.° All personal contacts by Security representatives in the
case were under alias and implied State Department affiliation.

10. Thare is no record or indication § in any of the files § in”
this case that involves Robert Maheu by name or reference, Maheu,
as we understand it, never was introduced to Mi and, as far as

 
14-00000

16, Records of this Office do not reflect any of the activities

of MRM during the courage of har mission. It is believed shs left

for Indonesia sometime in January 1959. It is known that she did
meet Sukarno, but dua to unfortunate timing that had him leaving

his country on official businesa, sha had little time to cultivate him;
consequently, the purpose of the mission was not fulfilled. It shonld
be noted that Sukarno took sufficient notice of her that during an ua-
official visit to the United States in June 1959, he expreased a strong
desire to see her and did. ~ ; :

17. The last known contact Behad with the agency was in
the form of a telephone call on 12 April 1961 whan she called on the
sterile line and talked to Hugh Tovar, who she knew as George Henry.
She advised that Miimemgnetee asked her to give a. party for Presi-
dent Sukarno who would be in Los Angeles on 21 April 1961. She
wanted to know whether Henry's people were interested in sponszor-
ing this party. A negative rasponse wag given.

18. It is not known where she is or what her activities are at
the present time, but presumably she is still in the Los Angalzs
area,

 

3) =D
poe
oa EE
nat,
PROJECT NORFOLK

: . i. In onnection with the, icial State visit o
from 16 Mare ui l8 April the Office of Security was
requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and
New York phases of the tour.

26 0,
ording tl___ bersonnel, Messrs,
and the Subject was particularly

desirous of female cémpamionship during his Los Angeles visit, and
it was requested that appropriate arrangements be made through a
controlled source of the Office of Security, in order to insure a :
satisfied visit. In addition, other supportive service, such as car
rentals, living accommodations, etc. were required and authorized
under| [Division Project NORFOLK,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. ol On 3 April -Mr.. Robert Maheu was asked to arrange
a party £63 at Los Angeles, California. He did this
through Mr.@ %, a prominentkuigienes attorney

and SiRyAese ficure previously g granted a CSA for use by FE Division.

 

 

By prearrangement, during the course of this party,
was introduced to @iieiataay a part-time <i PS
stay in Los Angeles, 3 April

   
  
  

Accordingly, it was indicated by ] Mr
integrated into the Stata party, tha desired to con-
tinue his friendship with Gqgmigutheimey ‘end that he wished to meet

with her during his stay in New York City from 14 April thru
18 Apri
4. Because of the publicity that had attended the relationship
between gai : in Los Angeles, the Offices
of Security was requested by Division to facilitate the arrange-

 

ments for the visit in New York City.

5. -On 13 April ‘arrangements were made to rent the
home of Sitesi erect, a Security Office source, at Lon
Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 April thru
as a confidential meeting place forenineIeeges anc
At the same time, ai : was registered @ E)
Barclay, lll East 48th Street, New York City, under the name of
Mrs, Giuakpimiaganr of El Paso, Texas. The publicity touching

 

  
 
 
 

 

  

06

 
74-00000

SUBJECT: Project HARPSTAR.

1. May 1958 - FE Division initially contacted Director of |
Security and briefad him on Project. Basically, Project capitalized
on President Sukarno's weakness for women, especially Caucasian.
Becauss of our inability te get controlled asget close to him to deter-
mine his thinking and plans, and the recent. apparent success of -
Soviots use of 2 woman, believed he may let down guard and become
expansive in discussion of plans with « female and accept advice
that ha would not ordinarily accept from a man.

2, Object - Locate intelligent, attractive, smotionally stable,
and trustworthy female who would accept ‘assignment which would
involve eventual intimate relationship with Sukarno.

3. January 1958 ~ Gave Robert Maheu assignment to locate
candidate. He <dvisad that a prominent Ere attorney and
‘man about town, " ae we, could come up with a qualifie
woman. Maheu told S§ggg8iigr be had a “client whos business was
not prospsring in an unidentified country. Felt could improve situa-
tion If an attractive and intelligent female could get to him ane,
through feminine charm, persuade his thinking in a more favorable
direction,

4. RSMO was investigated with favorabl+ results ang given
CSA cn 2 July 1953, but not made witting of CIA interest,

3. Candidate ~ Soper, a well-to-do widow,
voximutely 35 years old, resident ot FE. consivercd
ly intelligent and extremely attractive.

  

es?

$. August 1933 - Project HARPSTAR plain concurred in
COPS and DCI,

ap
Fi

 
[ng 40422-10346]

 

     
 
  

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

   

  
 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

  
   
    

p [action | mimecy REPLY | [PREPARE REPLY |
| _[arproval [| bisparcn | RECOMMENDATION _ |
[__[commenr | __[rerurn

   

Attached are copies of summaries of our

  
     
 

operational involvement with Maheu. In

     
 

addition to giving Mr. Helms the originals,

    
  

Ihave also given copies to Mr. Houston.

 
 
 

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHO ia | ewe

Director of Security Y 6/20/66

CONFIDENTIAL [ [| SECRET

(40)

     
   

    

 

   

CLASSIFIED

FoR, wo, 937 Use previous editions

 
 

aati,

Lee J SEGRET
EYES GHLY

Page 2

7. August 27 - Joseph Smith, FE Division, introduced to
Maheu as Joseph Sims.

8. Smith emphasized need for a solid cover story and back-
stopping. Maheu suggests, in view of Ziyi close relationship
with movie colony, may induce SiR who representa several
tTmovie interests, to set up an arrangement that would also includs
necessary funding mechanisms. : .

9. September 23 ~ Maheu and O'Connell, Security, met with
CURE in New York City (Hampshire House), Agreed, if he co-
operative, would briaf him re Agency interest and objective of
Project to get maximum effort from him. He responded enthu«
siastically and offered his complete service and facilities te sat up
a Secure cover mechaniam. He suggasted that @BBMD be told of
general Government interest (not CLA) at the outset due to her sharp
pereyptiveness which may cause her to Speculate at a later date.

10. Cover Story - SiRmige would commission her to perform
an "on location survey" in certain FE areas for tha proposed ‘ilmiag
of "Journey to the Center of the Zarth.” This could be done vary
naturally because @ ae epee py has the
relghta to the film and is contemplating shooting it in near futere,

  

    

 

    

ll, September 23 - iii arrived New York City (St. Regis),
Maheu met her alone for firet time and told her of Government inter~
ast. She seemed to ba relieved about certain misgivings she had of

assignment. (She knew true identity of Maheu, having been intreduced

to him socially by QR. She also knew that he had a personal
relations organization. }

ll, September 23 (afternoon) - Mahau introduced "Sims" fo
i. “ss given a gracual brizfing on assignment, determining at
various points whether she was still interested, She indicated she
unlorstoad oxactly what was expected of her ind coul! leave coSntry

13, September 21 - "Sims! again met with ogpeat which time
she wis told she would ba accompanied by a femal- traveling com-

      

 
 

  

       

nanion, (@B exes GS-12). Would osten~
» but w in fact, the p:raon she wonld

 
74-00000

WLURL |

EVES BLY Page 3

{4. S3pBme subseguently given several briefings by FE pore
sonnel, beth in New York City and California. All under aliases.
P.O. boxes and sterile phones were set up for communications,

15, Cover arrangements were completed by See He.
arranged for @mii@ipto carry a letter of introduction from Game
SS to a EHNA, his reprosentative in Indonesia,
QED known to Sukarno, Also arranged to have funds placed in
the Indonesian branch of Twentieth Century Fox in DJARKARTA,:

 

EVES GHLY
SERET

 

ne ne ee ee erature

Be ir
