St wna oe = sal gent

 

 

CIA's material, sanitizing exhibits, as necessary to
protect our sources and methods.

7. I mentioned in passing, that two other things
beyond our control have contributed to the misconceptions
over our exhibits: A)The inadvertent release by National
Archives of the master list of numbered exhibits shortly
after the demise of the President's Commission without
distinszuishing between overt and classified items; and
B) the fact that many exhibits bear different numbers
but are interrelated, thus giving a false imoression that
there are more. exhibits than is the case. Tne release
of the master list. without the accomoanying documents
caused: much apprehension and misinterpretation, particularly

among assassination "buffs" and Agency critics. I cited ~
the "Oswald and the U-2" entry which was widely exploited
until we declassified the document a couple of years ago.

.8. Mr. Ichord asked if any CIA members servec..on ;
the President's Commission. I said no, but mentioned that .
former DCI Allen Dulles was on the Commission. He then :
turned to the makeup of the Commission staff and how it :
was chosen. I replied that we were not really competent -::
‘to comment on how it was chosen but the staff consisted .
largely of attorneys of varied political and ethnical
_backgrounds from widely separated parts of the country;
-that, from my observatio:, the Commission was impressively.
organized and.a highly motivated, hard working group. .

_9. Mr. Ichord stated that he had no further questions
to ask and thanked us for easing his mind. We offered to
produce any other documents he might wish. to see. Mr. Ichord
replied that this would not be necessary. He returned our
‘exhibits and told us to consider the matter closed.

i . wo Lone oad
i . °
1 . ,
13-00000

-

np anna ae tea tepct re! b nanan” a 7 a oe . .
: amen ; . < .

eae eer Cr

   

4: At Hr. Ichord's request, T gave him a comnlete
rundown on how CIA learned of Csald's presence in Mexico,
and the circumstances surroundiaz the nhoto of the
miknown man which was taken
I snecified and refuted the assorted allegations regarding
this efgture which were generated by Edvard Epstein,
“eslev-Liabeler (a former Commission attorney), Mark Lane,
Jin Garrisson, and later Sernard Fensteryald, Jr. I
nentioned that Fensterwald told us a year ago that he
knew tke identity of the unknown man but so far has not
voluateered his name. One of Garrisson's charges was that
Oswald was a CIA agent and.that we cut him out of the
picture. I took the occasion to stress taat Oswald was
mot a CIA agent and that we never had anvtning to do with

“him.

5. I mentioned that: when the President's Commission
came into existence tir. Helms issued specific instructions
to cooperate fully with the Commission and to give it
complete access to any information bearing on the assassina-
tion; that Commission members, at Mr. Helm's invitation
visited our Mexico ! station for an on-the-scene
briefing and inspection. I told him that we have not_
released exhibits relating to Osvald's visits to the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies, because the sources of the. above
information are extremely sensitive and. still productive.
Mr. Ichord fully agreed on this score and complimented us
on the extent of our coverage.

6. Ur, Ichord asked what steps CIA was taking to
declassify its other documents. I told him of the required
five year cycle (one © coming up shortly), the review
process, our interim releases, and CIA's desire to release
them all _as quickly as the need for protecting them subsides.
I pointed out that most of our material consists of "nut ‘
complaints", rumors, gossip, etc; which have no security
significance per se but could he embarassing to innocent
persons; disclose a productive and friendly foreign source;
or acknowledge CIA's presence abroad where diplomatically
this would be inadvisable. I cited our experience with the
"crank call" that originated in . how
in 1968 we tried to declassify. this exhibit’ but
security officials objected on the grounds that it would
publicly acknowledge CIA presence on their soil and perhaps
stir unwarranted controversy. I stated that despite the
above-type problems we gradually have been declassifying

 
 

C my
ok Not age
ramos. na ne ee Se ee at eee cee

HEMORANHUM FOR: Director. of Central Intelligence
VIA : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT ': Release of Documents Furnished to. the -
President's Commission by the Central
Intelligence Agency

On Monday, 8 May 1972, Mr. visited
Congressman Richard Ichord to show him the exhibits he
requested and to answer any questions. “Ir. Ichord is
Chairman of the House Committee on Internal Security.
It was quickly apparent that he knew very little about
the Oswald case, and that he had been misled by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. regarding the extent of CIA's coverage
of Oswald when he was in Mexico City. Mr. Ichord ex-
amined the documents: and raised a number of points
which were answered candidly and without reservation.

He thanked us for easing his mind and said that we could ©

consider the matter closed. Mr. Ichord was well-disposed
toward this Agency from the onset and assured us that
anything said or shown to him would be held in strict
confidence. A more detailed memorandum is attached.

rd)

 

1 Attachment, A/S - : ; ey He
, 1H on) PR

Document Numbe.

for FOIA Review on SEP 197§

ST se me earner a tee enpnge er eee moon”
nt Nato es me ween meee cae ae

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey Oswald Case: briefing of ‘Congressman
Richard Ichord, 8 May 1972

1. Mr. Joseph O'Neill, Office of the Legislative
Counsel, presented Mr. , who furnished the
exhibits requested by the Congressman, and answered his
questions as follows:

2. ‘tr. Ichord said he was concerned over one aspect
of the Osvald Investigation from the standpoint. of his
committee. He wanted to know if "during CIA's investigation
of Oswald when he was in Mexico” we develoned any evidence
of 2 conspiratorial relationsnin between the Soviets and
Oswald either through our coverage of the Embassv or

outside meetings. He specifically referred to Soviet |
consular officials Pavel Antonovich Yatskov and Valeriy

   

 

‘Viladimirovich Kostikov, one or both of whom Oswald
contacted at the Soviet Embassy. (Both Yatskov and Kostikov

were identified in the Commission's Report as consular
officials and KGB representatives.) I told him that CIA
did not have Oswald under investigation when he was in

Mexico City; directed his attention to'the pertinent

exhibit; and explained that the KGB affiliations of the
two Soviets were supplied by CIA experts who were aware
of their activities and not by anything said or indicated

-by Oswald in the evidence compiled by us. -Mr. Ichord

examined the exhibit, noted that Oswald's efforts

only related to securing visas; indicated that he had been
misinformed; and said that he had no. further ques tions to
ask on this point. .

3. He said that his question was sparked by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. a former constituent, about whom he
knew very little when he requested the documents. Since

then he has learned of Fensterwald's dubious credential
"as an expert on the assassination and of his association

with Jim Garrisson and others of questionable repute.
I detailed our own difficulties with Fensterwald, his
insistence that we are hiding something, and how, as
Executive Director of the Committee to "lavestigate
Assassinations, he has been vressing us to release our
classified documents under threat of invoking the
Freedom of Information Act.
13-00000

SUBJECT: ‘Lee Harvey: Oswald Case: Briefing of Congressman
Richard Ichord, & May 1972

1. Mr. Joseph O'Neill; Office of ‘the Legislative
Counsel, presented Mr. Anelerbeekey, who furnished the
exhibits requested by the Congressman, and answered his
ques tions ‘as follows:

2. Mr. Ichord said he was concerned over one aspect

of the. Oswald Investigation from the standpoint of his
committee. He wanted to know if “during CIA's investigation
_of Oswald when he was in Mexico"! we developed any evidence
~.of a conspiratorial relationship between the Soviets and

Oswaldeither through our coverage of the Embassv or

outside meetings. He. specifically referred to Soviet

consular officials Pavel Antonovich Yatskov. and Valeriy.

Vladimirovich Kostikov, one or. both of whom Oswald.

contacted at the Soviet Embassy. (Both Yatskov and Kostikov

were identified in the Commission's Report as consular

officials and KGB representatives.) I told him that CIA

did not. have Oswald under investigation when he was in

Mexico City; directed his attention to the pertinent

exhibit; and explained that the KGB affiliations of the

two Soviets were supplied by CIA experts who were aware

of their activities and not by anything said or indicated

by Oswald in the evidence compiled by us. Mr. Ichord -esoers

examined the exhibit, noted that Oswald's short.conuetsations

only related to securing visas; indicated that he had been

misinformed; and said that he had no further questions to

ask on this point.

3. He said that his question was sparked by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. a former constituent, about whom he
knew very little when he requested the documents. Since
then he has learned of Fensterwald's. dubious credentials
as an expert on the assassination and of his association
with Jim Garrisson and others of questionable repute.

I detailed our own difficulties with Fensterwald, his
insistence that we are hiding something, and how, as
Executive Director of the Committee to Investigate
Assassinations, he has been pressing us to release our
classified documents under threat of invoking. the
Freedom of Information Act. .

  
      

Poly -
"fren .netomatis
downgrading alt

Terese: |

    
 

Prod-t0uts-0101 .

aan: ::: re

 

15 MAY 1972 - RPL 2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
VIA : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT : Release of Documents Furnished to the —
: ; President's Commission by the Central
Intelligence Agency

On Monday, 8 May 1972, Mr. ApthuesuDoodey visited
Congressman Richard Ichord to show him the exhibits he
requested and to answer any questions. Mr. Ichord is ©
Chairman of the House Committee on Internal. Security.

It was quickly apparent that he knew very little about.
the Oswald case, and that he had been misled by Bernard
Fensterwald, Jr. regarding the extent of CIA's coverage
of Oswald when he was in Mexico City. Mr. Ichord ex-
amined the documents and raised a number of points

which were answered candidly and without reservation.

He thanked us for easing his mind and said that we could
consider the matter closed. Mr. Ichord was well-disposed
toward this Agency from the.onset and assured us that
anything said or shown to him would be held in strict
confidence. A more. detailed memorandum is attached, _

 
     

Deputy -Chie£ . -
Countersint etPiperceserer

1 Attachment, A/S

Document Number 1057-949 R

for FOIA Reviewon SEP 1976

 
13-00000

 

4, At Mr. Ichord's request, I gave him a complete
rundown on how CIA learned of Oswald's presence in Mexico,
and the circumstances surrounding the photo of the
unknown man which was taken in-frontwed..the-Somietukabassy,
I specified and refuted the assorted allegations regarding
this picture which were generated by Edward Epstein,
Wesley Liebeler (a former Commission attorney}, Mark Lane,
Jim Garrisson, and later Bernard Fensterwald, Sr. I
mentioned that Fensterwald told us a year ago that he
knew the identity of the unknown man but so far has not
volunteered his name. One of Garrisson's charges was that
Oswald was a CIA agent and that we cut him out of the
picture. I took the occasion to stress that Oswald was
not a CIA agent and that we never had any thing to do with
him.

5. I mentioned that when. the President's Commission
came into existence Mr. Helms issued specific instructions
to cooperate fully with the Commission and to give it
complete access to any information bearing on the assassina-
tion; that Commission members, at Mr. Helm's invitation

visited our Mexico Gey station for an on-the-scene

briefing and inspection. I told him that we have not
released exhibits relating to Oswald's visits to the Soviet
and Cuban Embassies, because the sources of the above
information are extremely sensitive and still productive.
Mr, Ichord fully agreed on this score and complimented us
on the extent of our coverage.

6. Mr. Ichord asked what steps CIA was taking to
declassify its other documents. I told him of the required
five year cycle (one coming up shortly), the review
process, our interim releases, and CIA's desire to release
them all as quickly as the need for protecting them subsides.
I pointed out that most of our material consists of "nut
complaints", rumors, gossip, etc;. which have no security
significance per se but could be embarassing to innocent
persons; disclose a productive and friendly foreign source;
or acknowledge CIA's presence abroad where diplomatically
this would be inadvisable. I ci
“crank call" that originated in
in 1968 we tried to declassify this exhibit but
security officials objected on the grounds that it wou
publicly acknowledge CIA presence on their soil and pernaps
stir unwarranted controversy. I. stated that despite the
above- ‘type problems we gradually have been declassifying

 
 
  

 

 

  
13-00000

tog

coo CORR CC

CIA's material, sanitizing exhibits, as necessary to
protect our sources and methods.

7. I mentioned in passing, that two other things
beyond our control have contributed to the misconceptions
over our exhibits: (A)The inadvertent release by National
Archives of the master list of numbered exhibits shortly
after the demise of the President's Commission without

. distinguishing between overt and-classified items; and

B). the fact that many exhibits bear different numbers

but are interrelated, thus giving a false impression that -
there are more exhibits than is the case. The release

of the master list without. the accompanying documents

caused much apprehension and misinterpretation, particularly
among assassination "buffs"' and Agency critics. I cited’.
the "Oswald and the U-2" entry. which was widely exploited
until we declassified the document a couple of years ago.:

8. Mr, Ichord asked if” any CIA members served on
the President's Commission. I said no, but mentioned that
former: DCI Allen Dulles was on the Commission. He then
turned to the makeup of the Commission staff and how it

 

“was chosen. I-replied that we were not really competent ot

to comment on how. it was chosen but the staff consisted
largely of attorneys of varied political and ethnical
backgrounds: from widely separated parts of the country;
that, from my observation, the Commission was impressively
organized and a highly motivated, hard working group.

9. Mr. Ichord stated that he had no further questions
to ask and thanked us for easing his mind. We offered to
produce any other documents he might wish to see. Mr. Ichord
replied that this would not be necessary. He returned our
exhibits and told us to consider the matter closed.

  

Arthtr=Be-Dooley
roe fR Giles

     

neh GEIR
