104-10218-10112

a,

2 s Re: Intercentinental Penetration Ferces

3 . Joe Gorman and Larry Werley got in the airplane,

Y . and each made a parachute jump. When these. two enly

: available parachutes were repacked, Frank Little and

j a Hemming boarded the airplane and. made a parachute jump.

: The pket:grapher tock photographs, which appeared ina
later issue of the "Miami Herald."

A

wf nee cont ane oe - \ MM Pel said that these were the first and
i ' only parachute Jumps made by Interpen members. They
i were practice jumps, and fortunately, nobsdy was injured,
' {masmuch as nene of these individuals has had any train-

{ng or. experience, and they are net in adequate physical
condition.

: On June 28, 1961, the "Miami Herald". contained

an article stating that Interpen'a Commander is’ the

oC “biggest, strongest and mst handsome member of the

: let, and in his @arine cawouflage suit, Australian

7 bush hat, wavy hair and beard, he has the look of

: ; an old-time French musketeer." The article continues

pono by stating that Hemming is cenvinced that the pro-

Cotmunist Government of Cuba will be overthrown only

‘ by infiltration of guerrilla fighters; that he and _

: his wen live in a rooming house, and when they are CoE

| not on training exercises in the Everglades Swamps, .
an or parachuting at an abandoned airfield, they practice

i rigging parachutes in the street. Tha article cone.

: tinues that neighbors heve complained, but the police :
contend there is nothing they can do. Hemoing clains Tt
- he does nst try to hide the. fact that Interpen is , :
part of the Internationai Anti-Commmist Brigade, which
is associated with the Revolutisnary Junta of National
Liberation, led by Aureliano Sanchez Arango. .

 

_ 29°

 
104-10218-10112

Re: Intercontinental Penetratica Forces

; MM T-1, en’ June 27, 1961, advised that on

4 that day, Hemming and th.-2ze of his men went to Key .

; _ Largo, Fitrida, later returned, and brought six :

5 othera with them to establish a survival training .
i camp semewhere in Key Largs in the Florida Keys.

bee _ MM Tel explained that Heming met seme-

ene who knew an individual swaing property in Key

; Largo, and allewed them to wse chia property. MM Tel
po explained that on Junie 28, 1961, reprezentetives ef.

: _ Marcos Persz Jimenez are gsing + visit the camp

: site at Key Large, and observe Hemming and his eight -

t cempanions in their training waneuvera, MM T-1

: said that Hemming will tell the Venezuelans that

: this is just one of the many combat squads ef Interpen,
: and that many other squads are etsnding by at ether .

. places. Henming hepes to feel the Venezuslana inte
i, giving hia large donations ef arws, equipment and ©

 

~. Qn June 27, 1961, the United States Border
: Patrol, Miami, advised that Inspector Harry Rhodes,
i of the United States Border Patrol at Homestead,
ade . Florida, received a call from fishermen off Julia
-.. eland in the Flerida Keys that ssne shooting waa a:
: going on. Upon arrival, Inspector Rhodes ¢iscovered 4
foe that Henming and his group were conducting a jungle
ao gurvey training class, and Hemming had in his pessess=
to<.> + fom only ene .22 caliber rifle, a small amount ef
ammmition and some equipment. The rifle shot
~ {-cr>+- apparently ricecheted and barely migsed hitting a
-{ os: + nearby fisherman. Those with Hemming were identified
i ‘ as Wynn Bollinger, born at Buffalo, New York, on
April 27, 1943; Lasey Worley, born at Mansfield, Ohio,

 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
    
104-10218-10112

certian manent gen

 

A

 

Re: Intercentinental Penetration Forces”

‘they told the police, but the police said there was

nothing they could de about it. The article said
that the climax of Interpen training is parachute
jumping at an abandoned South Florida airfield.

The article continued that Hemming hires
a why diving inetructer and rents a light plane for
the exercises, and during the tumping drills on the
previous Saturday, the Sheriff's patrol officers
lesked en and made no atterpt to interfere. The
article went ea that Interpen has abeut one mndred
members, including seme at bases in California and
in the Nerth, and its purpsse was to fight Communisn,
look fer adventure, or “because they just like seldier-
ing." Jee Garman, a member frem Kentucky, was qucted
as saying: "I wsuld rather be shot to death than
bered to death."

EM T-1, on June 27, 1961, advised that
the above-mentiened article was out of preportion
to the true situation, and served no other purpose:
than to obtain publicity for Hemming and mcexace
wore adventurers to the Miani area.

MM Tel explained that en June 27, 1961, .

a plane was rented at Howe Aviation, Teniant Airport,
Miami, and flown to an abandened field at Davie,
Flerida, where the. plane waa met by Heaming,; Jce
German, Larry Worley, Frank Little and one other

' individual, name unknown, all Interpen members.
Also there were Frank Fisrini, a noterisus would-be
seldier of fortune, a fourteen year old Cuban bey,
and a news phetographer c=ca the "Miami Rerald"

_ _Rewspaper. -

ee naa ea af AE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
104-10218-10112

« #

   
  
  
  
  
     
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
      

i , Re; Intercentinental Penetratien Perces

Hexming had another plan to obtain a 106 foot
Salvage beat to take his group on a commando raid against
Cuba. Hewever, he was unable to obtain accées to this
beat. MM T-1 explained that Hemming has a new and different
plan daily, doea not follow threugh on any of them, and
none of them ever succeed.

eeven onan niiltaMaeEL ES Le

Press Publicity

. The "tam Herald," a daily newspaper published
. in Miami, Florida, on June 27, 1961, centained an article
concerning Interpen, steting that most members are Anericans,
although the leaders claim the group includes Canadians,
Venezuelens, Cubans and cther anti-Coammists. The :
article stated that the existence of this group was known
by the Herald, but it became generally known to the
public on June 26, 1961, after Florida Senator George
A. Smathers disciosed that Cuban exfles are training in
F . Flerida, the article said that Senator Smathers' dis-
i . clesure on a nation-wide radio network brought other
newsmen and television cameramen to Interpen Bessa cece
on June 26, 1961, Co.

The article described Gowsing J as a yous.
giant, 6 feet 7 inches tall, with long wavy hair, a
trimmed beard, an Australian bush hat, who looks
like Errol Flynn in his earlier matinee days." The
article stated that Hemming said the recruits are
first housed at the headquarters, and then sent to
Pan |: -- -@ training site in the Everglades, eccessible only :
i. oo. by beat. The article continued, stating that Interpen

 

. ! . . holds parachute rigging classes in the middle of a
: j a _. Street in Miami, and one elderly Miami couple stated

os “e Te

        
    

+ GR nteg cat Anan a cL renee

 
104-10218-10112

;
@
i
i

 

 
  
  
   
    

 

: representatives of Perez Jimenez were supposed to

' Interpen Unacceptable to Leading Cuban Organizations

Ue visited west of the leading Cuban revolutionary

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces.

matter concerning hia pending deportation hearing, to
be held in the United States District Court in Miami.
Prato said thet Perez Jimenez wondered how it was
possible fer American adventurers, such as the Interpen
members, to maintain a training camp, wear uniforms
and practice military maneuvers in the United States,
after they have publicly stated they plan te violate
United States neutrality lawa by proposed military
attacks against Cuba. Perez Jimenez expressed some
apprehensicn in cooperating with them, for fear they
would be arrested by United States authorities. Willis
and Watley planned to make an appointment to see Perez
Jimenez at a later time concerning. offering their
services and these of Interpen to Perez Jimenez.

 

 

On Jume 5, 1961, MM T-l advised that (first
name unlmewn) Peleaz, 5733 Northwest 6th Place, Miami,
representing Perez Jimenez, bought one hundred sixty
dellars werth ef food for a donation to Interpen. : b
This food consisted mainly of rice, beans, and canned -
items.

 

 
   
 
   
 
  
 
 

On June 28, 1961, mt Tel advised that

wisit a camp site established at Key Largo, Florida
by Interpen. At the camp site, they would be given
demonstrations in mil dbary training and Jungle
survival by. Hemming. :

MM T-1 advised that although Interpen had

 

= 5-
104-10218-10112 . a . — . ae

     
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
 
 
  
   

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces -

: organizations, these erganizations have refused to
t. support, denate, take into membership, or cooperate
oe with Interpen.
oa,

i During May and June, 1961, the following
i : individuels advised that their organizations would
Sh "have nothing to do with Interpen:

“Anterto Maceo, menber of the Cuban Revelutien-
ary Ceuncil

Orlando Garcia, Assistant to Aureliano Sanchez
Arango, head of the Bevstytieveny Junta of
. Cuban Liberation ‘

3 . Ersesto Despaigne, in charge of intelligence
- Cs fer FRD ‘ .

_ Rafael Diaz Balart, a Leading wember of the

"White Rose organization, and presently work-
ing with Carlos Prio Socarras, former President
of Cuba. .

ratlure ef Plans

oe MM Tel eplatnd that many of the tevaapensthle i
plans of Hemming have failed. - One involved driving a ~
car from Miani, Plorida, te Guatemala, fer some unknown ©
' yvevolutionary purpose. Hemming alse was involved in
another plan with Agustin Capo, a Cuban national, to
. BO on a xecennaissance trip by beat to the Cay Sal Bank
of islands, north of Cuba, and later establish a base
. fer Interpen there fsr future cemmando raids against ~
' Cuba. This fatled, inasmuch as Capo is being watched
by the United States Berder Patrel, and is afraid if
he leaves on his boat, he will be arrested. .

 

     
104-10218-10112

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Ferces

stores, are net exmpléyed, are usually withsut funds,
and are dressed in army combat clothes, boots, and
a number of them wear beards.

Hemming end hia grsup are interested in
, advaoture ané are willing ts geo toa any Latin American
Cv -=™ > geuntry to engage in any revolution, not knowing the
: fdasues, reliubility of the regolurionists, or
the political iceslogy involved. Heaming and his
i group are cewpletely irrespensidle, are not expected
i : to accomplish any positive actien, and are stimulated
an by publicity given to them in the Miami, Florida,
newspapers.

. . Oa May 16, 1961, Charles Sapp, Sergeant,
Intelligence Unit, Miami Prlice Department, advised
: that this greup constitutes a police problem. They - gels
4 have been hanging out in Miami Bayfront Park. Ser- a aa
i geant Sapp advised that a group of Cuban women hag : . ‘
re been maintaining a sit-down strike at Bayfrent Park
for the purpose of influencing the Organization ef
American States and the United States Government
j oe to intervens in Cuba. He said the women are neat . ; .
a and orderly, maintain a table en which donations gages
Ph Bere are received, and around which are American and . me
Cuban flags. These women have complained to the
police and the City concerning the immoral and
- wandalous attivities of these Americans in the | an
parks. known to be members of Interpen. :

 

 

- The palice instructed these Americans
to leave the park and not return. .

On May 15, 1961, the palice arrested
Arthur Milten Reduond, Richard Joe Roma, Phillip
E. Denford, and Donald Pugh on charge of vagrancy.

  
104-10218-10112

rete aR ATS

ook 408 Lo IRENA AER oD ot te

  

agen Wem eert ck Pe mt cat at BE ND aE ANNE

 

 

 

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

‘

Oo "
- Rez Intercontinental Penetration Forces

‘Nature of Or, anizaticn

om

Miami, Florida

~-Récords Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53217 6/20/17
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF IUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

‘ mM T-1, who has been involved in Cuban
‘ evolutionary activities for the past four yeare,
and whe has furnished reliable information in the
past, is closely associated with Gerald Patrick

Renming,. head of the Intercentinental Penetration

Forces, alse known as Interpen.

vib

‘MM T-1 advised that Jerry, Henning, Hannon

and Gerald Patrick Henning are names used by the press
and by other individuals referring to Gerald Patrick

MM T-1

Hemming, and are all idenkscws with Hemming.

. advised that Interpen, until recently,
was mown as the Anti-Commnist Legicennaires, and is

aon organization made up of American volunteers, mer-
cenaries, vagrants and adventurers, having a member-

ship of fifteen to-twenty individuals.

The wsmbership

-- has a high turnover, inasmuch as. newspaper publicity
caused these adventurers to come to Miami, Florida

to jein the organization, but lack of any sericus

- accomplishment causes them to become disillusioned

and lesve. At any one time, there are several

“and drunkenness.

members in jail in Miami for fighting, vagrancy
They. beg food frem Cuban grocery

 

“Wen 20450725

Lene eyes ooo

 

    
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
    
         
 
   

2
£
8
104-10218-10112

ay : wo, _ i

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces , ’

On May 17, 1961, Sergeant Sepp advised that ; :
Redmond and Rema had again been arrested fer vagrancy oe
at Bayfrent Park, along with Alfred Dushane and Albert os
Mariner, who were also charged with vagrancy.

 

ee te - Sergeant Sapp advised that these members a na
t ef Interpen have developed inte a pelice problea, ara - : i
+ . rewdy end drunken, and cause considerable comment by a “f
residents of Miami and tourists visiting the city. . a
|
t

: Sees, with Frente Revolucienario Desecratico

: i T-1, on June 5, 1961, advised thet Tea
Cain and Frank (last name unknown), Interpen mexbera,
ebeut a menth previeusly, went to Chicago, Illineis

and contacted headquarters of the Frente Revelucienario
Demecratice (Revelutionary Demecratic Front - FRb), an

‘ . alliance group of anti-Commmist Cuban revolutionary.
i... . .@rgendzatiens. Cain and Frank were secking aid and
oe backing fer Interpen from the FRD, and received a

toe. letter of introduction, addressed to Mr. Gamba, FED

poe headquarters, Miami.

 

 
  
     
     
      
   
  

WM T-1 said that at that time, Interpea
_censisted ef sbout fourteen members, most of when ~ Look
‘were staying at 1925 Southwest 4th Street, the. 1 : Lo8
residence of a Mrs. Hamilten, whe allews them te ‘
ees there Free, and sxeaueaely yreriie® weals for

Cy

 

 

 

 

“Se

  

a . MM T-2, who is an official of the FED, end
: who has furnished reliable inforwatien in the past,
_ advised that Tomas Gamba is an assistant to Manuel
— antonio de Varena, Coordinator of the FRD. MM ae

2 3e

RD eed aa het

 
104-10218-10112

 

take inte mezbership any American group of volunteers.

 Centact with Veaezuelans

_associate of Marcos Perez Jimenez, former dictator

 
 
 
 

~ Willis, members of Interpen and assistants to Hemming,

Re: Intercentinental Penetration Forces

said that it would be extremely doubtful that Gamba,
or any other FRD official, would in any way help or

M4 T-1 subsequently advised that Hemming
and Tem Cain contacted Gamba at PRD headquarters on
June 8, 1961. They were treated courteously, but
received no promises of help or offers of mexbership
in the FRD, and wexe politely referred to Menuel
Antonie de Varona, Ceordinater ef the PRD. M4 Tel
explained that the FRD's policy has always been
against accepting Americans, and it was extremely

  

. doubtful that Interpen would receive any aid from e . : . ; i
' the FRD. : “4

   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   

MM Tel explained that Hesming and Interpen
members have centacted many other Cuban organizations
and individuals, seeking money denatiens, equipment
end members, but they have always been refused.

 

On Hay 25, 1961, MM Tel advised that Hemming
had wade contact with a (first nawe unknown) Prato, an

ef Venezuela, presently residing in Miawi Beach, Flerida.
Heuming had effered his services to Perez Jimenez ‘for
‘future revolutionary activity in Venezuela.

""" prate Later took ‘Dick Watley and Robert

to see Perez Jimenez. However, Perez Jimenez was wable
to confer with them because he was too busy with the

oho
