74-90000"

3/oV

 

 

    

   

 
 
  
    

.DISPATCH | wont! 22 (assoc
epee be eee eee tome cnep eens meme tae cbc ee eee ee artes Sine ome rcmmamenemnaattigns Toe cae pee ae
10 Chiaes wee SiG teie dhs
neo Chief, BH) 1 LSS

fea nee
Chief of Station 7 .

REDGAP
____ Coatdlie’a Liamoh with Grigeriy Ye. QOLUBH_.

ACTION Blut tS .
\

    

  

 

 

 

  
   

 

SON RE RINGED
ALPE MQ Of 88 ONY

 
      
 
   

 

_Hona 22 -_—-—- = cane

“ee (Genapsoe1

1. Om 23 June Coatille invited dolub to have lunch wid Bia at the Savoy °
Restaurant in Releinki, as it was Oostille’s turn te pay the DI]. Gelub’s
first remarks concerned the amount of he had ta do ia the Consulate,

ae he vas alone there now aince Mikhee TNOvHt artincai Golus
stated that Lyubisov hed new obtained the diplometiz title of Third Secre-

- tary and was currently in Mos for cone toaining prior te_e FCS esalennent
somewhere besides Helsinki, probably either Lundon ce Stackholm, dol
stated that he missed Lyubimov tremendously beth office-wise and parecaally.
He was very fond of Lyubimov and often remarked what an intelligest young

man he wage .

 
     
           
        
 
   

. 2, The conversation then turncd to Sostiile’s recext vacation in Lapland.
Golub again told Costilie that he was nct going te be able to take a
vacation this year as the nev Abassador wanted tim to comain in Helsinki.
Goiub then stated to Costille, "I have heard that you speek flucrt Russian.”
Costille stated that thet was very complimentary but that he spoke about
aa good Russien as Golub spoke Exglish. Costille tald him that he had
studied Russian at the University of California and on hie own but that”
about al] he could do now was understand and read sco and that what littioc
‘epeaking ability he had waa practically gone. Qalus coumented it was
good that Costille knew eome Ruacian and aaid thai more Americans should
atudy it. Golub thea asked why Oostille was not trying to Leprove his.
Rusalan, Costille answered that he was trying to learn to spesk Finnish
and that it was too much of a chore to study two iasguages at the seme time,
Golub said that what Costille neelad waa more practice im Kussian and pro-
oseded to speak in Russian, In actuality Gostille’s Russian hae decreased
considerably and he was able to easily convince Galut that his Rusaian was
far from fluent. As was mentioned in previous dispatches, Costille had
never attempted to conceal from Golub the fact that he knew Russian. The
jesue just never cane up. Since dolub is flueat im Pimiah, the common
languags sutematically became Finnish. If wo hal realised thia Gelub

contact was going to be so frequent, we would have made it a pcint at the
first to be the one to tell Golub that Coatille knows some Russian, This
might kave made Golub.a little suspicious, At the last meeting Costille
had. mentioned to Golub that he hed been studying Russian some. Golub ~

- did mot respond, so evidently he either did not hear or underatand Costille.

      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
        
      
   
   
       
 

8, Golvb asked Costille what other languages he had statied, Costille toid
him he had studied Spaniah in high school, Golub said that this vas sn
easy language and ot stulied. too much In the Soviet Union, After making
this remark, he quickly corrected hinself and stat-i that a large percentage
of the world spoke Spanish and that it was becoming a mush mre populer
language in the Soviet Union, Costille mantione? thet Russien had become
a very popular languages in the States and that withia the lest two years
hie high school in California, which was quite small, even ues offering the
Rusaien language, This seomed to impress Golub.

: Giese

4. ‘Walle speaking Russian to Costille, Golub began using the familiar fors of
the language rather than the polite form which the two had always used. Ee
looked at Costille and asked if it would be alright to use first names.
hea Costille agreed, he reached across the tabie ant atook Costille’s
hand, He then told Costille that wes a ney Cultural Offfosr in the
Sorvis whe wante’ ty meet eoms young

      
   
   
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
      
     
  

invitation froa Yogal to attend a showing at the Soviet Ralascy of @
Htelsigh, ns

CATE CANON

ane f

 
  

 
    

 
 

mn net eT

 

  
       

 
    
 
 

Gh .
— c a SECRET. of «
. a : EN est ”

   

 
     

    

a ROUTING | AND AND RECORD SHEET a

FAM, NOTE i Ne abvene of commons gr mdaatan ob acto

- _ faten, ha coves pheet wE he deetoyad ahon the
om ; Rds Sue, ; document a filed. ~*~

j ~ COMMENTS
“ Ss a -"
é ry .
den ff 4, i,
on
7
AUG 27 10:9

: DOC. MICRO. SER. a
cn

Dhar Yesun Yer (HE) 3 FS Coaea a

Gye wy EW oO
| fo.
_

fips, poppe ° Poa

/ :

   

c

eh aaa
CSC ee or

 

: a RETURN To CIA
a“ Background Use f:-
: * Be Nat Reproduce

wu

 

 

we
~ "GOLUB Criédenie ws:
Rrovet 14900 . dy igen 5 kr. i.
wo f Sl we
NCA OE { aastRacr , Oke NUMBER ; i
le mou R Pof— (54 $7 ee
i OWOUMEAT OATE DOCUMENT MUMRER

OATE ame AED

Ww
>
; ne

3
z
| A. ak fi
ia Gedls 1accq Wemisorsee 4
74-0000" *

    

CONTINUATION OF :
DneatcH . . r

ee An fn ee cee

 

 

 

   
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
    
    
   
   
    
   
     
   
   
    
   
  
     
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
   
   

5.

6.

Pe:

10,

   
  

Scviat dSaliet flim followed by @ receptton on 6 duly. Costille eatd that he
wes Cree that evening an! would Ifke to attend and mest Segal,

Galed aloo mentions that kia wife wag going back to ths Soviet Union for a
two mathe rest end vacation aid that he was poling to te a bachelor again for
that period, He siated that he was glad to yet rid of tar for a while becruse

" she "bothare’® him and that now he could bri-g home wram he wanted and do what

be warte’, Ke stated that uinco Costille and he vere uth bachelors they
coald fhave some gocd times together". .

Just before the two parted after lunch Golub atated that he had heeni from
cow about hie repart cf what he termed 8the Volodya incident®, (Sea

22 (OrzA}S819). Ke egid that Yolodya had bean called tn ant properly chastised,

Wes Costills saced Goluk what vould happen to Volodya, Golub responded that
he 2idn’t know. Golub aleo stated that Moscow asked hin how Custille was
abie to deduce that his room waa being searched at that particular tine.
Costille stated that it dida’t take em amateur detective to figura that oat,

Goiud laughed and agreed. . xe
. ge . é
Please. sea reference A concerning the(AEPAinE/s ant Gxtunes/s contact vith

 Galab, :

fhe above portions of Ute dispatch vere written onl July. it te now 7 July,

“and the reception mantioned in para four above never cams off, When first

inviting Costille to this reception, Golub made it quite certain that Costille
aa-free for the 7th and gado him promise to come, On Thuraday, 2 July,
Golub called Costille again to meke sure he had not forgotten the date,

“. Costille told him that as yet ho had not received the officiel invitation

from Zeyal, Golub stated that he would receive it sbortly, By Monday, the
day of the reception, still no invitation had been received, At 1600 Costille
decided to phone Golub to find out what had happened. Golub informed him
then that the reception had been postponed until the Soviet Ambassador, who

‘43 presently touring Finland, returned to Helsinki. Golub apologized for

net telling Costille earliar and invited Costille for lunch the next day,
Y Jame.

Lunch vith Galub has just been completed. He was more jovial than we have
ever seen hin. He adaitted that he had been up all evening drinking with a
good friend and hadn’t fully sobered up yet. His firet move at lunch wae

to erder vodka and beer. He again apologised for the mix-up on the reception
davitations but said that his Ambassador didn’t arrive deck in Helainki in
time, Hs promised to asnd Costille an invitation ag Scan ag the date had

 beea confirmed, The lunch was spent moatly in polite, friendly conversation,

Golub remarked that now Mosgow had given him the anthority to give Americans
Visas without prior approval from Moauow. He stated that this vould make
his {ob mch easier, and as long as he was convinced the American was Urea §
Fight® he could give him hie visa in e matter of minutes. When Costille
mentioned that he had a personal friend coming to Helaizki for a visit in .
October, Golub stated that Costille should inaist she see Leningrad and that
if Ccatille would bring her to the Soviet Embassy, he vould give her a vias
at case, . . . .

Golub thea asked Costills to explein the "Janes Dean" problea and the negro
problem in America to his, Golub stated that he Ppersonaity did not like

\ Bégroes. and admitted that the Soviet Union aiso had a Juvenile delinquency

problea (*stilyazgi¥). Golub mentioned that Khrushchev was coming to Finland
soon. which always meant « lot of work for the Exbesey. Hs then proceeded
to talk about what a great, intelligent, but prectical man Khrushchev WAS,

Golud also made sone éerogatory remarks about hia wife, ami hov glad he was
that she bai gone to Moscow, Returning frem lunch, Golub insisted that
Costiile stop by bis apartzent to hear some of hia Ruasiea records and have

@ glase cf cognac, As they walked through the door, Gelub, at the top of

Bis voice, in Russian yelied, *Is there any ons home? It 1a so nice not to
have anyore answer," Golub is extremely proud of his recerd collection

which 1a small but imcindes some Chaliapin, Tehaikovaky ami. Prokoviey records,
The apartment. is quite large with many rooms, but al] are quite sparsely
furnished. One or two rooms aren’t furnished at all. He has 4@ amall West

   

ravererr iran

Lk HHT Ce
AT EO

 

 

  

  
74-0009 +

CONTINUATION OF
" OISPATCH

German record player and a-Soviet TV act. in the living room, They epent
ebout an hour in his apartment, and Costille mentioned that he would have
to be leaving to go back to work. Golub promised to phone Costille soon,

 

net - sole
UR FeEMOUE LOTION v ; }

. HERACES FORMS
2fft my S12 OP ORA ano He

Were ALE Sb aca a TE

 
