13-00000 , W/3/7%
Pichi PARDWAY

AP Qo nl)

  

, a Mei— 6/26/04

 

 

 

Soobkcd . SWART sad alifed
“iis WSS obo

 

 

 

rp Nt een ROAD, ZR BLESS Lrrnd
rbgroresk “plwudorreoo } !
 

 

rf h Lime,
i

4/3/o¢

HAROWAY

 

 

) Paige Och fg dat

 

; Od £aS, 900
pars [LourT rey Se

 

 

vee (4@3 (Jatin) Her [964 (Jrms).

Meme hekeal 3/17/04 Ker poe

 

eT own ,
fovslilnal 3 Recher Ouran

 

 
 
13-00000

ae : .
, 7 _ KUTACHEENT ‘TO
toon 12434

~ used to identify Station's unilateral telephone
taps.
Assigned on 21 February 1959, to identity the
Station's unilateral telephone tap of the '
: PSRUMEN TPELIDE in Mexico City. (See ae ,
: MEXI 3382, February 21, 1959)

e mo, ‘CRYPTONYM C - Idéntifien the’ technical nowenclature of a
Pe = hot mike telephone A/S installation. Detail

of the. syatem are contained in HMMA 20307.

 

Fl
3
Lo]

 

 

Concealed microphones.

3
:
Z
ko]

- Hot mike telephone.

3
3
:

 

BaP OOE M8 wy em pds OS tay
13-00000

   
  

   
   
  
  

; GIWPATCH Correa ANQ NUMOCA

‘Wham 12454

     
 

~ CONTRLATION OF maven?
: SECRET

  
  

     
    

“LIFEAT/MKXTRAP", technical difficulties made this impossible,
therefore theso two agents. were not being included under LIFSAT
Project... When MKTRAP was re-nctuated in November 1963 and as stated
above, the Station utilized another LirEAT basehouse, ‘also called ~ |
baschouse- CHARLIE, situatéd approximately six miles fron target.
“Please confirm the accuracy of the foregoing and. supplement it. by

- informing Headquarters - the bagehouges ‘and keepers involved and the

/. operations they are currently ‘monitoring.

7. Headquarters requests ‘Station’ 8 comments on the following
suggestions: .

 
    
    
   
 
   

      
    

    
 

     

. a. “photographic coverage, That a separate project. be
. prepared to6Include LIFEUD ZZ and 23. The project should
cover ‘their ‘Salaries, basehouse rent, and equipment
expeuses, an arrangement similar’ to LITABBY and LIDOGTROT.
This activity, identified with a new cryptonym would :
eliminate further confusion when discussing photographic

coverage of PBRUMEN TPELIDE.

b.- LIGOOL. Headquarters is not aware of any LICOOLs
presently operative. If cny are contemplated, CSI-52-6, 27
February 1958, requires special Headquarters approval prior
to any action taken. If successful, a decision can be made
at that time whether a new project is necessary or whether
it can adequately be covered under LIFEAT, depending on
the assets being utilized in the operation.

&e LIERODE The original intent of this cryptonym is
discusséc @ separate cover attachment and the activity
has been asaigned file number 50-6-32/6. If the operation
utilizes LIFEAT assets, it is suggested that it remain-

under LIFEAT Project and be identified as LI#KAT/LIZ80D8 in
all correspondence. Please inform Ileadquarters of the assets

presently used for LIFEAT/LIERODE coverage.

“KURIOT would prefer the Station. not use this
it

   
      
 
   

      
   
  

    
       
   
   
   
    

 
     
   
      
   
   
   
  

 
      
   

ad. MEKTRAP:
eryptonym in reporting this particular type of coverage.
is suggested that a new cryptonym, in the LI series, be
utilized to reference this activity. The present cryptonyr:
refers to a technique which hasprogressed from the
dévelopsental into the operational stage and should more |
appropriately be identified with a regular Station cryptonyn.
If this operation is being worked by LIFEAT assets, then

‘At might be identified with a dual cryptonym LIFEAT/LI. A
separate file number, within the LIFEAT series, can be.
assigned to cover “MKTRAP" if the Station requests it, but

it does not seem necessary since other LIFEAT targets do. not

have separate file numbers either.

Consolidated Project. If the Station prefers, all

e. E
technical operations — LTERODE, MKTRAP, LICOOL, PiloTo -
directed against PBRUMEN “TPELIDE can be funded and

administered under one project.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
    

 

    
   
      
    
  

OLIVER G, GALBOND

CS es? if

TLABSIFICATION

   

 

   

 

| PAGE NO.

    
  

FORM

sso Sa - use racvecus eartion. . . : im , |
: CONTINUED 4 3

e407
£... Ten te ae cm

  

 

 

i
i
i
i
'

 

eee terete
1 ae

 

 

rs aaaanee .
Chief, Wi Division ree Le. CRON -
aac : : orn

PBR
enon REQUIRED. REFERENCES ——

   
 

 
 

: wxecords which lack: ‘considerable detail concerning the intricacies of

         
  
  
  
 

  

CLASHAICALION THORNE ACTION

se tcra Re

     
  
 

FAREED FOR IHOENING

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
| SAN I HIOGE UNDER IS

 

 

UMEN_. ,gPPAN/ATRNODR,_Gontunsen An U4e.of. cryptotem

1. “the: Station’ a use ‘of. certain aryptonyas identifying technical
Operations agaiag BRUMEN -! PELIDE in ‘Mexico has caused confusion in
Headijuarters ele ‘Yesponsibie. for sourcing and dissemination of:
nformation. produced, and ‘for ‘supporting. the entire complex of
-Operatd as itself’.: Th cryptonyms in question are (a) LIFEAT
GB) LTERODE (ec) MKTRAI (ay. LICGOL/11 and (e) PBIMPULSE. The original
meaning ‘of ‘these crypt nym te being forwarded under: separate cover.

 

   

 

2. “The. purpose, of his ‘Sepateh is to submit tor ‘Station comment
a review of the technica perational effort against PBRUMEN TPELIDE.
ince ita inception. The objectives are (1) to complete Headquarters

 

the operation, (2) to ‘urgé:a more precise use of cryptonyms in.

reporting thie activity. nich would benefit Headquarters personnel
responsible for monitoring and supporting these operations and (3) to .
suggest a few administrative adjustments which would dispel the presen

confusion mentioned in this” dispatch,

3. The initinl effort against the target was PBIMPULSE;- It was
introduced into the target using LIFEAT assets and was actuated from
the LIFEAT VY basehouse. This is mentioned only to complete the recor
and dues not pertain. to. the intent of this discussion. Properly
speaking the initial effort begins with the activation of LIFEAT/
LIERODE in February ‘1959, as indicated in HMMA 12358,. Subsequently
-@ight (8) LICOOL attempts were made during 1960-1961 against the sane
target. The LICOOLa. were monitored from a mobile LP (not LIFIRE),

. Basehouse ABLE and Baselhiouse BAKER, and the latter came to be referred

 

CROSS REFERENCE TO

 

to as the LIERODE base, The most productive operation of this sort
geems to have been LICOOL/11, activated on 9 May 1959, according to .
MEXI 3884, dated 15 May 1959, According to our records the last LICOO

ceased functioning during late 1961. Please confirm.

Attachment - u/s/c

Distribution . :
0&1 ~ COS, Mexico City w/att
:

S GORY

‘DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

  
   

 

  
   

 

    

   
 
 
   

HMMW 12454 1 April 1964
CLASSIFICATION “has Fie NUMBER — -
SECRET $0-6-32/6

 

RI
‘Chrono
TSD/ASB
TSD/Photo

COCREENATING:
A OFFICER'S NAME

  
 

 

teage

1
1
1
1

  

 

 

OFFICE SYMBOL =| 'DATE

c/WwHD (8%5..

 

Ew canes DISPATCH

°° SeguesTeled WEIN Pox 23, Pelee 7
13-0Q000

 

 

  
 
    

| DISPATCH SYMBOL ENS NUMBER

     

~ a Guaee Fi aT iS
CONTINUATION OF. KAPOK .
__DISPATCH _ SECRET Huw 12454

 
        
 

    

 

   

: 4. At that time a different’ technique was ‘planned. The followin
briefly outlines the ‘development of the operations which the Station -
habitually refers. to as “MOCTRAP" 2

    
  

  

 
  

   

5 February 1962:. Request for operation received at
MKCHARITY by” Harvey C, MULFORD, :

   

8 Feb, -War.1962:. Design and construction of EKTRAP.,

 
 
  

   
 

   

3

9 March 1962 : MXTRAP delivered to LIFEAT CO for
placexent in target area. .

    
  

0 10 March 1962 : MKTRAP. installed by LIFEAT assets and —

initial LP tests performed from LIFEAT VI basehouse
‘with negative results. .

14. March 1962. : LP tests conducted with revised series
Line connections with positive results.

Design and construction of LP equipment.

    

 
   
    
 

 

 
 
 

    
 

     

6-13 April 1962;
16 April 1962 ; installaction of LP equipment in

LIFEAT VI basehouse.

  
 
  

     
  

‘MKTRAP, although moved from room to room, remained in olace within
the target area, though inactive most of the time. During November
1963 METRAP was re-actuated from a second LIFEAT basehouse known as

Basehouse CHARLIE,

5. The photo survetllance of PBRUMEN TPELIDE was put into effect,
-wSing baseheuse RAKER- (LIFRODE Rese} at tha same time that HKTRAP was
actuated, This phote coverage, the basehouse, PBRUMEN TPRLIDE and the
activity for which the cryptonym was first authorized have all been

identified as LIERODE which has created considerable confusion here at

Headquarters.

8. According to scanty Headquarter'a records the following
operations have utilized these bases against the target:

LIFEAT VI
Basehouses ‘ABLE ‘and BAKER
LIFEAT VI

LIFEAT VI, Basehouse
BAKER, Basehouse CHARLIE

 
 
   
   
   
  

   
         
   
     
  

   
          
   
  

  

  

 PBIMPULSE
b. LICOOLs
¢. LIFEAT/LIERODE
“WRTRAP"

 

a.

 

   

     
  

      
      

  

   

   
 

 

a,

 
   
 

 

   

   

Basehouse BAKER

 

e, PpuoTo
fieadquarters has the impression that the principal factors that
contributed to the suspension of HKTRAP activity from LIFEAT VI,. were
the physical deterioration of the house itself and the divorce of the
‘baschouse keepers. The current LIFEAT Project Oytline indicates that .
LIFEUD 14 atid LIFEUD 17 were obtaining a divorce and were terminated
as of 30 September 1962. Headquarters assumes they were the occupants
of LIFEAT VI, yet the project outline does not show that the base was

closed, .-LIPEAT VI was listed “on page 20 of the outline us an ‘active
‘On the other ‘hand, page 15 of the outline states that LIFEUD 22

unit.
and -LIFEUD 23 are eccupying the “LIERODE photo basehouse", but that

they have never been involved in. LIFEAT. work. This indicates that
LIFEAT/LIERODS and the photo work against the PBRUMEN target are now
being conducted from two different basehouses, The project outline
also. indicates ‘that while it had been planned to have this base serve

     
       
         
     
     
       
         
   
 
     

etaasiFication PASENG.

. - i
FORM i
S3a

55 USE PREVIOUS EDITION. s he a °. x 7 _|o CONTINUED |?

 

 

 

 
13-00000

SECRET

Question # 5:
We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on the
Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 and
December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a
comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

Until very recently, we had seen no evidence that CIA hadGnicrophone surveillancd of
the Cuban compound. However, Dispatch HMMW 12454 (no IDEN number attached)

 

 

found in Box 23, Folder 9 of the Sequestered Collection, makes reference to LICOOLs
( (concealed microphones inside the Cuban Emibassyjin Mexico City). Though the
_ dispatch reports that the last LICOOL ceased functioning in 1961--before the period in

question--the prior existence of this capability and the fact that the dispatch discusses

- the possibility of reactivation prompts the question of whether all technical and —

surveillance operations against the Cuban and Soviet Consulates have been identified
to the ARRB. In addition, the dispatch refers to MKTRAP, a telephone hot mike
operation which was re-actuated from a basehouse in November 1963. The specific hot
mike telephone PBIMPULSE appears to have been in operation during 1963. Are there
records from this operation? Are there any other operations that may have picked up
Oswald’s visit?

Question # 6:

How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the
Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and
during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the
Sequestered Collection represents all records of technical production that were available

' at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists,
where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any
additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records exist of the
destruction?

This question is a follow up to question #5. If MKTRAP was in operation from

' September 1-December 1, 1963, where are the records or transcripts describing the take?

Was the take ever retained or reviewed? Do any original tapes or transcripts still exist?
Where might these records be found? Were any other technical operations in progress?
The various project files for the technical operations known to exist during this period
are spotty and incomplete. How can the ARRB know if it has reviewed records of all
the technical operation take for the relevant time period?

SECRET
 

 

 

 

 

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724-0457

 

SECRET
MEMORANDUM
March 18, 1997
TO: John Pereira and Barry Harrelson

FROM: Jeremy Gunn

SUBJECT: ARRB Questions Submitted for DO Briefing

I would like to address some of the concerns that you expressed at our meeting
yesterday, where we briefly discussed the Review Board’s Proposed Questions for the
March 17 briefing regarding DO records. We understand that you have some concerns
about the scope of the topics raised. We very much appreciate your recognition of the
importance that we attach to the ARRB’s independence and we again wish to
emphasize the fact that we fully understand your proper concern for the protection of
information that is unrelated to the Kennedy assassination.

I would like to emphasize that the questions that we sent to you were not intended as in
depth research queries, but rather as topical talking points for discussion. We prepared
the questions, at your request, in order to give the persons conducting the briefing an
understanding of the types of issues in which we were interested. They represent issues
that.we wish to explore in our quest for additional information and records to facilitate
the completion of the ARRB’s responsibilities under the JFK Act.

We appreciate your acknowledgment that the ARRB is not necessarily obligated to

. justify to CIA the questions it deems relevant to the assassination. Nevertheless, in

order to facilitate and coordinate our efforts, we are very willing to offer the following
additional explication of those questions that we understand may have been considered

by the Agency to be excessively broad.

SECRET

 

 

Boaro Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall » William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell
13-00000

SECRET

Question # 9:
Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing
companies during the 1960's. How could a query be framed to search for connections
between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

The two 1967 Ramparts articles mention connections between the Agency and

journalists worldwide. The primary focus of this question is on any connection between
the Agency and any journalist who might have covered the assassination domestically.
Additionally, we would be interested in any publishing company involved in
publishing books about the assassination. HSCA staff notes (RIF 180-10142-10087)
summarize several files dealing with contacts between the Agency, publishing houses,
and authors._For example, the file identified as QKOPERA/Liaison ZRBLESS outlines
amemo b bA/ PROP on the status of negotiations between
Praeger Publishing and Milovan Djilas. ZRBLESS is identified as a subproject of
WUBONBON. Further, the staff notes-:mention a project involving "Praeger and
publication" [sic], a separate project involving "the Freedom Fund and distribution"
[sic], and a third project to provide news service to the foreign press through
Continental Press. Each of these projects appears to have been in operation in 1963-64.

 

 

Question # 10:
Did the Agency have any relationship, projects or contacts with publishing houses
during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission?
How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a
relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books
about the assassination?

This question is a follow up to question #9. One record that is already in the collection

., (RIF 180-10142-10087) summarizes the Project File of WUPUNDIT and notes two ‘one

time only’ operations in 1963--WURAISIN and. WUTRANSIT which were responsible

_ for publishing two books each. In addition, WUSENDER is reported to be a ‘one time

only’ operation responsible for three books in 1964. If these books have domestic
implications or are on subjects related to the assassination, they would be relevant
documents.

We hope that this additional explication may help you and the DO understand our
approach to the issues raised in our questions. Should any of our requests impose on
you or your staff a burden that we may not have anticipated - or which would entail
work of dubious value or benefit -- please advise us so that we can work with you to
modify or amend the requests accordingly.

SECRET
13-00000

SECRET
Please also remember that, when we request accesses to these materials, we are not
designating them “assassination records” and we are not, at this time, requesting that
copies of documents be given to the Review Board.

We appreciate your continuing cooperation and helpfulness.

 

General (ourisel and Associate Director
for Research and Analysis

SECRET
