 

 

 

 

 

~~ SET

Page 2

City, Oklahoma, on 24 August 1927, left
home for Mexico City in 1947-48 after

her father remarried. She has since lived
in Ecuador, Cuba, and Mexico, and has

been involved with the men and politics

of a number of Latin Countries. During
these years she has developed a host of
friends and acquaintances, both U.S. and
Latin, that includes political leaders,
journalists, diplomats, and men and women
from a number of professions, some of
which do not enjoy general social acceptance.
Her taste in friends is omnivorous .and

she embraces (sometimes literally) and

has access to extremists from both right
and left political groups and has variously
been accepted and distrusted by” both pro=+
and anti-U.S. interest groups. (See List
of Associates, para. 3,d,1, below). First
contacted by a KUBARK Staff Employee in
Habana in. 1960 when she was employed. by

the government of Fidel Castro, she reported
on Cuban personnel and activities until

she left Cuba and for some time afterward.
She was picked up by Mexico Station in
December 1961 when she had lost her access
to Cuban targets and has been reporting

on the activities and thinking of various
Latin pro-Communist. revolutionaries
including LINLUCK, a Communist Party

 

 

 

 

b. She has intentionally or
unintentionally Indicated her employment
with the U.S. Government to_a number_of
{ntimates and_acquaintances. Persons

suspecting her association with U.S.

 

-intelligence include the following:

Horacio GODOY, Argentine law professor;

~ Septet

 

 

wee eae

wt

  

 

 

  

  
   
 

104-10218-10093

 

 

i
t
t

 

   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

15 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA
SUBJECT : Viola June COBB, C~83492

Reference: Request for Information and Review,
9 October 1962

1. As requested in the reference, attached
hereto is a copy of the technical interrogation of
Viola June COBB, (Please return this file to
WH/3/Mexico for Subject's 201).

2. Staff D collateral information, routed
through CI/OA on 9 October 1962, provided no
derogatory information that is not included in
Miss COBB'S 201 file: expulsion from Guatemala
in November 1961 after proof was obtained by the
Government of Guatemala "that she was a Castro
agent whose mission in Guatemala was to distribute
pro-Castro and Communist propaganda among university
students"; translator of a book written by former
Guatemalan President Juan Jose AREVALO, "The
Fable of the Shark and the Sardines," which assails
government and business in the United States.

3. Below is a summary of information from
Subject's 201 pertinent to the reference, with
attachments which are to be returned to WH/3/Mexico
for inclusion in Subject's 201. Since Mexico City
Station has consistently provided information
concerning Subject and her relation to Station
operations and agents, no further field traces
will be requested unless requested by your office.

a. Viola June COBB, born in Ponca
74-0000

 

gh a

Page 3

professor;
Michael Sidney COLIN, U.S. citizen who
: was associated with William L. Morgan
. i 4n Habana;

{ Rosalbo ROCA, close friend in New York

| who is a citizen of the Dominican Republic;
and Diane ALEXANDRIA, also a friend in
New York City on resident visa.

‘ . . t

an | Bayless MANNING, Yale University law
i
i

c. In March 1962 she was called before
the Senate Subcommittee on Internal
Security and questioned on Cuban associations
and activities. To our knowledge, she
did not divulge any contact with KUBARK.
As a result of this hearing, she was
contacted by Drew Pearson's assistant,
ie . Loa Jack Anderson, and the interview resulted
' in an article in Parade, the Washington
i Post, 12 August 19627

{ ad. Attached to this memorandum are
! the following documents from Subject's
: 201 (to be returned to WH/3/Mexico):
\ 1. List of Associates of Viola June
i COBB. (1960)
i 2. Memorandum to WH/3/Mexico, from
i he WH/4/CI (on Subject)
an 3. Memorandum for the Record (2 April
: : 1962). Contact report with Subject
concerning Senate Subcommittee
hearing.
4. Article on Subject from Parade;
/ “Meet June Cobb.” ~~

 

Chief, 3

SECtET

 

 

 
