 

 

SeCeet — $O_BLane
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GROUP
INTELLIGENCE REFORT

CCUNTRY Cuba/Vece wela DATE:
INFO. Prior to 27 Dec. 19/7

DIST. 20 January 1948

 

SUBJECT Activities of Vovinionty Soctalista Ravoluclorario.

 

 
   
 

. PAGES 2

ORIGIN Cuba, Havana SUPPLEMENT
EVALUATION OF SOURCE EVALUATION OF CONTENT
SE FS CRE SS K-62 as z EI
— FAHY | PROT USUALLY | HOT CANMOTEZ { [commemen | PeozaUr

revase fectsasiz | recsanee | sv0ato lore Bot
psayeeren
re Ce oO 1
SOURCE

1. The Hoviniento Soctalista Ravolue! crerio (SR) is raking er effort to oppese
the Partido Socislista Popular (FSF - Cuban Comanist Partv) by concentrating
on 4 CHUpAIgN VO win .nDOr Buppert, according to Rolando iasferrer, leajer
of the USK and director of the ners weekly Pierre en Cuba, Uasferrer states
that since Jesus Menendez, PSP mecber of the Cuban House of liepresentetives,
lost control of the National Faderstion of Suger Jorkers, the most poverful
union in Cuba, the PSP has been trying to gain influence over the C- fiz0, ‘or
Autentico group, which holds the telance of rover within the union. Eovever,
hasferzrer believes that the Autenticos are rot strong enough to continua to
control ths various syndicates in the sugar workers’ union. Tho ESR is mking
a@ concrete 2ffort to expend its ir‘irent? in the union by increasing tha mober
of its labor agents to one hundred. With this mrber of S5R agents operating
in the sugar syndicates, they hope to overcors the influence of the PSP and
gain control of the sugar | workera, in the legelizod Confederecion de Trebaja~
dores Cubancs (CIC), the Y5R hes three representatives in the directorate who
are active in the sugar corkers'’ syndicates, (ne of the osn is the head of
the National Federstion of Sugar Sorkers in Cazeguey.

ae 2 According to Kasferrer and Carlos Fontenegre, adniristrator of Tiempo en Cuba,

the USR is attempting to affiliate itself with the Second Internationels.
The YSR, Masferrer states, is a socialist orgarizetion, emi. maintains infornel
international relations with Accicn Deroeratica of Yenemuele. According to
: Lacferrer, Aecion Jerceratica is elso attempting to afriliate itself with the
ag Second Internationale. ot

3. Carlos Ra®eel Rodriguez, nenber of the PSP Zxecutive Co~mi**ee, during his
recent trip to Venezuela reportedly cade overtures to Presiivut Yomule Gallegns
to atrengther. the ties between the Cosmrist Farty of Venesuele and the Accion
Deroeratica, Honever, according to Uasferrer, Rotrigues was unsuccessful in
this attempt despite his orn claim that real prosress ras made.

Carlos Montenegro asserted thet altheigh he and orizinal leaders of the ESR
saintained: Meison with.the Soviet Legation for nine months after sepersting -
fvom the PSP, relations were finally broken off end today the tsa hes no liaison
with either the Soviet Legation or the PSP,

S$. About 37 Jemery 1948, the ESR intends to commence tho publication, eta
monthly cost of- 9800, of w daily nevspaper which, will be the Principe] organ

 
   

O Iai

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

ia He it:

TEES ert man apie cee y erent i

‘

 

“ x4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SICEST
CraVIaL, NTWLIG IC: AGTrey 80 31,10?

=2=

of tha (SR, Wasferrer told nrother soures that Presidert Gran had rro-
mised “8000 for the Initie] pohiiertien of the vener, but to dete the
money hrs not beer rade avaliable, At the cresert tire, Mintster “ither!
Portfolio Jote Ueruel Alewan, whe 45 8214 te hardle Grau's *inareial trars-
actions, is rot sm-inus to sea the iSR groe, srd hes cesses? to supply funds
to the orm rie-ticr sirce tha feilure of the recent Joriricar revolutionarr
attempt, Alerur is interested ir using the soney ot his disposal to buy
votss, but President Grau does not feel thet the USK can help corsiderably
alone this line,

 
