14-00000

  

fe)

 

 

Page 90. Sixteenth line. Delete "in

 

Page 92. Suggest retain the designation of "A" for Victor « Spinoza
Hernandez, rather than using his full nare. -

Page 93. Top paragraph. We cannot contribute positively to the
question of a real link between the syndicate and "A". However, the SSC
final report, Book V, at pages 78, 79, and 105 seems to make it clear ;
that what "A" knew about AMLASH post-dated the 1963 period. ;

We are now going forced draft to comment on the long and unexpected
Nosenko Graft.. I hope to have it to you Monday afternoon.

Sincerely,

—_—~-~,

a, een
TP ee

S. D. Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA~

Distribution:
Orig - Adse ae i
~ Jack Sullivan, os” ; |
- Dick Rininger, OGC : i
- Bill Sturbitts, LA/DDO i
-*Russ Holmes :
~ OLC/Subj ; :
- OLC/Chrono ; i
OLC/SDB/ksn a5 Mar 79) ;

ened coed eed eet cet wee

006370

  

ea PSEA aac oe ld at

its ER

 

 
14-000

 

   

O'Connell first told the story in some Getail (with some error in dates), °
inside the Agency for the record (1957), he told it in just those terms.
He had no reason then to conceal concern, if any, and current speculation
really doesn't alter the basic facts of that sirple story. ‘There really
was no concern at that time about Giencana leaking ; _-

Suggest we remove all references that identify Rowan and
hHceGuire and clean up the presentation to fit the Facts. i

Paye 74. Second line TFR for CIA.

Page 76. A little confusion in the sequence of events betveen — .
Phase I and Phase If. When the first access to Castro failed, and _ :
a viable new one did not develop, Roselli went to the Cuban exile — }
leader. That contact and the apparent uncertainties that it: / | - : : :
offered is what was terminated at the end of Phase I. That is where | :
it started when it was reactivated in April 1962 for Phase II. so :

Page 77. There are many operations in the Clandestine world in which ~
the instruments of action are not known in detail to the case officer. . :
In the Phase II operation, Roselli served as cut-out between CIA and the .
Cuban exile leader. In a sense, the Cuban ran his ow net and did not ~ :
reveal the identities of his people or any specific plans. In the ; i
absence of direct access to the target his operatives had to go in and ;
develop a way in which to carry out their mission. Had it succeeded, it . ©. 2 3
would have been possible to reconstruct events after the fact in the’ «..-. |
“absence of ultimate action it may seem uncertain to some individuals
unfamiliar with the tenuous nature of some clandestine action. The real ;
question teday, in my mind, is whether the Cuban exile leader really
dispatched "teams" with the mission they were supposed to have. :

 

Page 77. It may seem extraordinary to the investigators that CIA : :
operated as it did. First, as mentioned above, there are a number of : i.
uncertainties in the world of clandestine operations. There are numerous 7
instances in which individuals throughout an operational chain are unknown i
to CIA. In this particular case, dealing with representatives of the ~ :
underworld, labored under certain practical inhibitions about how far he OE
could press individuals using their resources to carry out a mutual ; ot

objective.
Page 88. ‘op line. Delete "station ‘personnel if .
Page 89. tira line. Delete "to ; . P
Page 83. Second paragraph, second line. Delete "in oof

Page 89. Next last line. Delete "col |

. Page 90,° Seventh line. Substitute "CIA" for i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 90. ‘lwelfth line. Substitute "abroad" for “to

 

 
 

Q

with the specific limitations decided upon, and the report of
the actual maeting (with the basic rebuff given by Fitzgerald, so
far as support was concerned), followed by subsequent reports showing
that ANLASH/1 hed understood that he had been denied support,
Langosch could have spoken differently than he did. As it is; he
spoxe in error, if quoted correctly in your draft. oe

2. Also, when testifying before the SSC in 1975, Langosch
was unable to recall the time fraxe of developirents in the AMLASH
operation, a factor that is critical and central to any analysis
and evaluation of what the operation was during the life of President

Kennedy... this is directly relevant to your charter and the issue of

the moment. The CIA Task Force Report documented this in detail.

3. And in 1975, when Langosch testified before the SSC, he was
revealed as somewhat vague as to characterization of the AMLASH
operation. In this respect, his testimony seems to have undergone a
significant metamorphosis in terms of firm recollection. .

It might be instructive to review Book V of the SSC Final Report at
page 75. One would think that the man's credibility would be tested
somewhere along the way, by at least quasi-legal standards: — :

- . dd. Langosch was not knowledgeable on the AMLASH operation
-at the time it was going on. He admittedly did not know the.
time frame. His testimony on key details has bsen demonstrated

to be’ inaccurate.

2.° Langosch's testimony has evolved with the passage ‘of
time. As a witness, what he says doas not warrant the * emphasis
given by your draft. .

Page 36. Instead of describing witboae a as. méxom ene cra” he should
be referred to as "a former CIA employee."

Fage 37. First line. The word "object" should be "objective. "
Page 37. Second line. The word "Cuba" should be "AMLASH/1".

Page 46. ‘The draft's assertion that O'Connell and Maheu are
lying about identification of the syndicate people with whom they were
dealing; this is unsupported by the evidence.

_ . the record is somewhat longer than the association of the HSCA
investigators with it, and the only thing they add to it is ‘this
wnfounded subjective judgment. I was one of the two CIA officers who

Gebciefed O'Connell on his part in the. operation, when another inspector

and I did the original. 1967 IG report on assassinations. At that time.
O'Connell was forthright and did not dissemble, al though he experienced
difficulty in recalling some details. . oo,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
He related his role in a factual manner; he had been given an assignreat

 

ee 7

At the time of the 1967 interviews, O'Connell related the discovery
of the actual identity of the persons with whom they were dealing privarily
as an interesting development in the unfolding events of the operation.

and carried it.out. He related it without explanation or apology. If he
was presssed by HSCA investigators he may have been asked questions that
posed the various considerations in terms of rationale, etc., but that was
not his presentation when he was speaking inside the Agency in 1967 —
then under strict terms of security ~- when he originally recorded himself |
on the matter. He is not a philosogher, and I doubt that he would have
volunteered mich on this score. Quite frankly, my impression from 1967
(and I interviewed him again in 1975) was that he was impressed by the -
high-level attention the syndicate gave the matter, rather than being
embarrassed by it. It is more accurate to see him viewing it as a sign

of the serious attention given by the syndicate, possibly reinforcing

the chances of achieving the objective. O'Connell knew from the beginning
that he was dealing with the syndicate, and that there had to be high-level
approval was a foregone conclusion. . No real thought had been given as to
what sort of person would be assigned to the job, and whomever it was
there was little that could be done about it if the oparation was to_
proceed. ‘the interpretation of O'Connell's thought processes are far
fetched. : _ oo, :

Page 48. . O'Connell's name appears several times in the preceding
pages, but it appears here with Edwards. We might suggest that the word
“they" be substituted. All the other places it can be "Operations. ne
Support Chief”. :

ooo orenemeresemreermeet te NEEL ESE RN cee

 

Page 57. Second sentence in last paragraph. Request deletion of
entire sentence. It reveals the CIA relations with the Cuban exile
organizations, which we wish to protect. The deletion does. not impair
the basic story. . i:

Page 58. First complete paragraph, fifth line. Propose following
to be substituted for sentence starting there: : ,

"Moss had previous CIA associations. He also was supposedly — oon
acting as conduit for funds supplied by the Cellini brothers ;
with the understanding that this group would receive ‘Privileged
treatirent in the Cuba of the future."

Page 68-71. I recall the introduction to the HSCA draft report
that it would not impugn the reputation of innocent by~standers. The ;
identities of Dan Rowan and Phyllis McGuire fall into this category. ‘the
simple and correct story is that Giancana felt that he was being cuckolded
by Rowan and took advantage, in his jealousy, of his new and novel
relationship with CIA. O'Connell should not have gone along with him, but
he did, unfortunately. With the advantage of 20-20 hindsight it may . :
look easy today to have turned it ‘aside then. Remenber, when ;

   

Scrteesemammnss earner aetehthnnstnassanetnaatnasalAnne hasan .
. Nii sh nN STS MORO DME ee ane

 
14-00000

  

provide a set of standards or rules for how the principle is to
be applied should the question present itself. This uncertainty |
adds .to the complexity of the question, introducing subjective
tests of perception and degree, aspects of life that make life
uncomfortable already for those tidy minds that feel compelled tor
deal with everything in blacks and whites. .

Let ire pose the problem thus. Had anyone foreseen the extremes
of Hitler, a truly demonic man, would there have been a basis for
seriously considering his assassination? Rad he been murdered, at.
least six million Jews would have survived, not to mention the rany-
Inillions more who died as a result of the war. Who can confidently
balance. the scales on that question, between the rights of humanity,

_ in the larger sense, and the life of Hitler? I recall the reports of

an attempt on Hitler's life during World War II, and the general.
approbation of American society for the heroes that tried and failed.
It really isn't all that simple, at least not as stated in your arate

introduction.

Obviously it is too complex a subject for a full and considered
discussion here, and my comment is intended only to suggest that
you may wish to review the presentation on how the Committee finally

speaks on this.

. I personally happen to feel that the perceived. desirability. of ©
giving the Cuban people a more enlightened government —- shared by -

the overwhelming majority of Americans at the time — was unlikely =.
to have been served by Castro's death. Quite frankly, I have

similar doubts on the others considered as possible targets for
elimination in the 1950s and 1960s. And that is why I asked my first
question about whether your draft categorically includes all political
assassinations, regardless of whatever and wherever, or if it is
directed at those considered dur ing the late 1950s and early 1960s.
My point is that the HSCA draft is 5 subject to imorovement. on this

point. +

Page 3. Insert the word "late" before the Gate 1960, sixth Line
from the bottom.

Page 3. Last sentence should read: "CIA records indicate that
the cperation was inactive from April 1961 until April 1962.” :

Page 4, Delete "James "Big Jim’ O'Connell" and replace with the
phrase "Chief, Office of Security Operaticns Sugport Branch." There-
efter, he can be identified as "the Oparations Support. Chief" or

“Support Chief."

Page 6. Change last sentence to commence as follows: "fhe
1967 IGR noted that..."

“Page 7. End of the first complete paragraph. Substitute word’
"operation" for the word "plots". ae

 

 
 

104-10067-10134¢@———

 

 

Q-.

. . THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE”

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

“OLC:79-0113/L
Office of Legislative Counsel .
15 March 1979

Mr. G. Robert Blakey :

Chief Counsel and Director ~ GY
Select Comnittee on Assassinations oo : :
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515 .

 

Dear Bob:

Herewith are comments on the draft paper on “Evolution and
Implications of the CIA~Sponsored Assassination Conspiracies
Against Castro."

 

First, it is noted that no footnotes are attached, so we are
unable to comment on the kind of modifications that have been :
required for security reasons in earlier instances. :

' Next, as we are nearing the end of this phase of things, it i te L
is noted that we have seen no graphics, and therefore assume that a oer
there will be none of interest or relevance to CIA. - an :

 

As a preliminary observation — to avoid the endless listing of -
instances of recurring citation in the draft — the names of
James O'Connell, Tony Varona, and Juan Orta, should be deleted or
replaced wherever they occur. Substitutes will be suggested where a
they first appear. Cubela, of course, should be referred to as .
AMLASH,. : : it

Page 1. First paragraph. I would like to raise a personal
question on the presentation in this paragraph. ‘These are my ;
views, to you; not necessarily shared by my colleagues. ‘There ; a
is as much, if not more, simplistic rhetoric here as there is : t
mature moral principle, and you may wish to modify the language. :
F irst, it is not clear whether the draft states categorical .
opposition to all assassinations, whatever and wherever, or whether
it. is directed only to those considered by CIA -- however
ineffective the plans.

Murder is reprehensible, and contrary to the principles of
civilized society (although lawyers make a variety of technical
distinctions between different kinds of homicide). However,
western. culture has a parellel, if necessarily subordinate, line
of philosophy on the subject of tyrannicide. Writings of church iG
philosophers, as well as other reputable thinkers, recognize the . i
principle, given special considerations. These writers fail to | ae :

 

boL 3 90

 
14-00000

 

   

Page 11.. Fifth line froin bottom. Insert word “unsuccessfully”

_after "Harvey subsequently attempted...."

Page 12. Twelfth line from bottom, Insert year "1967" before,
the nane of Ed Morgan. .
"This

Page 14. Second sentence should be rephrased as follows:
rerorc detailed the accounts of various CI4 plans and operations
against Castro...."

Page 15, It should be emphasized that CIA's concern was, narrowly,

protection of intelligence sources and methods.

Page 16. . Delete that portion of the last sentence of ‘the first
paragraph that reads as follows: “...on-going plots against the revo- —
lutionary government in Cuba and its...." The main thrust of the SSC .
report had to do with plotting ayainst-Castro and this tends to.shift the
emphasis to a broader range than the SSC report really supports.

_ Page 17. Second sentence; first complete paragraph. While it is
correct .to summarize the SSC report as stated, . the SSC report is
incorrect, and we should so note. . . :

Page 17. Last paragraph. There was no "ripple effect". Nobody
paid any attention to the SSC report after the first few days. It was

' quite some time afterwards, on a time-available basis that the CIA Task.

Force took up the problem. In any event, it was not intended to "answer"

the SSC report in the usual sense of the word so much as it was intended « -

to research the general problem. We did not know what we would find.

Page 18. ‘The subparagraph (1), second line. ‘The word "as”
should be replaced by "on."

Page 18. Fifth to the last line. ‘TFR for IGR.
Page 19. Fifth line. "Operative" for "operation".
Page 21. Next to last line. TR for IGR.

Page 23. ‘lop paragraph. The reason there was no contact with AMLASH
for the year preceding, from 1962 to 1963, was that he was in Cuba. —

Page 23. Third line after indented quotation. It was not a question
of a "comaitment" to bring about change, but the "problem" in doing so.
Suggest change accordingly.

Page 23. Mext to last line right in middle paragraph. CIA did not
say that any dispute was in the eyes of the SSC only.

Page 24. Second parayragh, first line. Substitute "cabled” for
"called". ; : .

oy

 
14-00000__

 

Page 24. FitzGerald is spelled with capital "G".

kage 24. Second paragraph, ninth line. . Substitute TFR for CIA.

 

The ASCA draft is imprecise in this treatment. ‘The task force
report gave a rather detailed recitation of what AMLASH was told as the
basis for its view. While Book V of the SSC reported AMLASH's reaction as
uncertain, the Task Force report made it clear that his reaction as to
what he was told was exactly the same as the CIA record of what he was
told. .

Page 24. Second sentence, first full paragraph. Substitute the. ,
following: . : . -
"In October 1963 Desmond FitzGerald met AMLASH/1 outside the |
United States. :

Page 26. Fourth line in the quotation at the top of the page.
Substitute the word "reinforce" for the word "re~inform". ;

_ Pages 30-32. ‘The following names (in case any of those mentioned
elsewhere are overlooked here) should be removed or -replaced with

"appropriate descriptions: ; _. . . oo, |

Varona (#3), Duque (#16), ? Alonso. a7) , o' Connell 2),
Orta (#31). - .

Page 34. Remove the "s" from the CIA Inspector. General Reports. = fe
i?
|

 

Page 35. The record is clearly documented in detail as to what

the AMLASH operation was. ‘The authors may not wish to choose
between the record, and what the SSC has said about it (erroneously).

- AS. for Langosch, he was not in charge of the component that was
responsible for CIA operations against Cuba, as the sentence structure
makes it appear. In fact he was neither responsible for nor familiar :
with the nature of the association with AMLASH, except peripherally. His  e
views on the security aspects of the case, because of AMLASH/1's personality,
are very different from what he knew about the actual nature of what was .
and was not going on. . .

Langosch’s lack of familiarity with the details of the operation is
quickly apparent if one takes the time to review what he has said on the
subject, and how it matches the facts. We have already commented else-
where how his comments to you about use of the polygraph betray his
unfamiliarity with the case. The following is also relevant: ~

- 1. In his testimony before the SSC in 1975, he stated
* that PitzGerald's meeting with AMLASH/1 had to do with Castro's
assassination. Had he read the papers preceding the meeting, ; mos !

 
