eres tener nance por yom wte-rnecenemoncmcmerm-u oun tae

~ SECRET

BEDRAGDOB
SEAIRCP: LA REVOLUTION AFRICATHE/NICHARD THOAS CTEOOH

 

2. 1A REVOLUTION AYRICAINE appeared fer the first tims in Algiers on
2, 1963. Editors of the magesine ere Jacques VERGES, a Cammmist, and
tctera, URIY, wife of the View Prenier of Algeria Rabah BYPAT. 9 & Vali-imors
French leftist cartoonist, does the polities! cartoons for the magasine. The megasizs
@laies to have effices in Rew York City, Paris, Severna end
Laxcims. The address for the Bev York City office of the mgasine ig 264 Bast héth
Btreet.

  
   
     
  
  

&. FIRS? TREY GF ALCERTAN REVOLUTTORARY WOAZINE TH EECLISH

 

outstanding vom :

Serican nermmamnce. In charge of tho English edition is Richard Citeun, en AfrO-
can nevurma, neve writer eal emeutive of the Patr for —
Cube Committee im the U. 5. A. - sooretary vey

SPRICAN REVOLUTION sells for 30 U. 8. cents a im Africa, 3,50 F ant 30 64 ta.
Berepe oni 75 eaate in forth America. ; “rr * ; .

The first (tay) tesue of AFRICAN REVO

  
 

  

 

 

 

Staties axl Game
teeta qlenred for paneing

  

4
t

 
 

 

ee requested. Atiacteent C bes ase

   

Gites dalek com be gavel to tie HETIOGS will te forcerded
fase |

 

wy © Saters pourk.

& Sony tuas a

 

2 ~ os
[toa t02t7-10204

 

Hanereiebateenongevebiones ete 4 way cet

Ae ai A SRN IAB ntl ode Babe SoS ge

‘Abbey

 

“ecenetemyeenmercn cena aml ti hp = st

 

Chie? of Station, Earn z

Chief, EB :
TEX /ms-01F Chieu Activities
1A EUVOLUTION APUICALEI/iletard Teams Otter (201-josoua)

SEVERE: A. TEC! 1059, 2 aagnet 1963 :
B, HERA 12659, & sreust 1453 :
€. BGR GR1O6, 27 august 1963 i

he Trenacttted berovith es attachzont A ie the EUUESE summary of the latest
Seferantion

@valisble to oa eihject jourmal and its Raclich
pt pal llpreeatehlphagioee The asterial my be pecsod te the
Salloving changes im paragragh ons:

@ BSelete reference to Verges’ travel to Sune ef this te
errenge tockiss for tia_veniare:
be Change the gtatemst, “the Enqlich language edition ef Reve
{EF cite ungenge ection of the
_ Lesypesred
Gf Pevolution Africaine following publicatses of Volumm I, Ho. 2 in Susp 1963.
@. Change the lest centemms to rast: “the Premeh address te cles mev."

Basa ere ehle ts uncover. We ery aleo intarested im confirmetion cf the atete-
went ccmiainzed im peraoreph 8 of PARI C156, 9 August 1953, ne purchase of 4 sodern
Petating plant ty the Chieess, reportedly for we in pera.

& Astectsost Bie o cumary of the FURIE information on African Tevelutios ant

Rieherd Ciscoe whteh may be peesed to the TEANIVICER. I¢ if @ bit cated im that %+
éaserives the etrartms es it aprarently existed gricr to ths Giexiesal of Verges}
howaver, it may be of interest te the IRATITIONS as

beekgroun’ inrormaties. Farm
. Heya 1 cf ettachuent B ie inferwation reported by the Algiers Stations paregragh 2
. effies of Aericsn

1-82/6A Quuno
aie vice
2ewa/cH/toC wlofket. .

 

  

  

  

  

 

  

 
   
74-0000

Fe

 

oe Africaine, folloving yhliestion of Vel. I, io. fim kee
Reniquarters EBS now received @ copy of @ Jourml called Africa dzeries
feta Ferolution, vanes firet edition in telich ta Listes oe «i, Ge. 3, ami is
89 G contimmtion of Africea Revoluti, trvetening its secpe. The masthend
cat, NI6eS 82 Director ant inlicates ist all ooo
chonldé be atéreseed to;
te Metropole, 10-12
lauenne, Bvitzerlan’
Fel: (021) 22 00 95
the folloving bereaus af the publtention are listed:
Britain « c/o B.L.B., 7 Corlisle Street, Lonton, V.3

Qletrttartions:
tan > A Box 395) att Cones Fekings/Cunzi Sasiizn,
~ Revolucion, Pines de 1A Tevolution, ievena

Tt 4e woted that ene listed in cuba, Ttaly,
Sinoe Forge dasehtont “1th those still carried on the’ mastiad ef heresoenrinas Sat, ts
since Verges Q1entese) The Britien address,

   

   

2. ene TPES from the above thet verses
Soureal wien SoERNICE Afrtcatze ent to uanieg se an the beets Fore nee ent ene me |
dourmal vith jrenmptive Chinese Comaist becking Povential usefulness

i;
:

ibsnladtievls aed alti cesta te eam Olee gv

 

che then TAE ORAS EN INN A atte

  

       
74-0000

eed Cie,

 

 

  

SECRET

  
     

pedicel pear sli pele fel fas nye ederidiner ieietarmrseii be Ew vans fubitap-tirr ead ‘|
Groups in usderdeveloped creas, Headquarters ie mst imtereste! ip developing furthar
iefertation an this venture an the folloving lines:

& Whe’ ie the cource of funia for the Journal ent ty viet chamels are

these ? is view of the record ef Chimese contacts of beth Yerges ent Frady ‘
the Chinese exbeaseies in France or Svitserlan’ appecr the most likely sources,

with the ICIA offico in Paris protably Fartietpating at oom some point. Confirmation on :
tRese lines ani specific details of tramesctions would be anst useful. ;

|

b. Where end by whas is the editertal vork donet Althougs all engutries |

ere Girected to Lausanne, Verges himeelf appears to be based in Foris. ‘There is ao A
@arrent information os identities af other staff mexbers. |
{
:

Vist is the current locetion end etatus of Rickert Cibsan? The treces

ie Lavsome end working on the nev Jrurmal? Aleo, the statena:t thet Oitecn wes !
Gupleyea ty Andersam ic interesting as priar iaformtion indicated thet he was aaployed!
Bere to es Revolution Africatne ant eecigued to Lausanne Ww Xhis Jourmn) in

  
    
