74-0000

 

followed. I pointed out that his people had asked for
the White House history of Mexico City, while what was
involved was what was known as the WH Division history
of the Station. We ended up asserting one another's
position in terms unacceptable to each other: I said
he was trying to broaden his inquiry beyond his charter,
while he said I was giving the narrowest description.

4. I had stated earlier that access to the Proenza
file had to be broadened to include Ed Lopez, the HSCA
staffer who speaks Spanish. Except for this, in this
conversation, I stated that neither set of papers could
be shown below the level of himself. He made it clear
that he might (read will) want staff members to read
portions of the papers as well. I said that neither set
of papers dealt with the purpose of his investigation,
other than the few pages in the history.

5. I mentioned Blakey's earlier personal agreement
with the DCI, suggesting that he might be given access
under those terms. He did not respond. I suggested he
might read without taking notes. He replied, wanting
to take notes, which we could sanitize, but I am sure that
would lead to additional problems.

6. I said that I was not authorized to provide any-
thing other than what was brought to the meeting, noting
that the other two items in the subpoena had been reviewed
before the subpoena was voted. I would have to refer the
matter back to those with an equity in the question. I
asked Blakey if the Chairman could be contacted if desired.
He said he knew how to contact him.

7. (After the meeting ended, Mr. Blakey reviewed the
Proenza 201 file and a piece of research on Sylvia Odio,
done by Chris Hopkins. When he finished I escorted him
out of the building. On the way to our automobiles, I
observed that there seemed to be three very different
alternatives. First, the materials could be released
as he requested, which presented problems. Second, it
could be released to him alone, personally, under the
agreement with the DCI, which I preferred. Finally, it
simply could not be released. Responding only to the
final alternative, he said that the subpoena was dated
for return on 6 September, at which time it would go to
a vote of the House. I asked how the matter might look
to the House, given the flaws in the subpoena (asking
for materials already reviewed and other materials out-
side the HSCA charter). He said a vote would subject
the DCI to criminal prosecution for criminal contempt.

 
rod t0as-10411

 

OLC- 78-3014
23 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : HSCA and Proenza Files and Mexico City History

1. Yesterday evening Messrs. Joannides, Hawkins,
Shepanek, and the undersigned met with Mr. Blakey of
HSCA to discuss the handling of the Proenza matter and
the Mexico City history. In earlier discussions with
Mr. Cornwell, Blakey's deputy, we had been asked to
provide the Proenza 201 file for the period from
1 September 1963 through 31 January 1964, and specified
sections of the Mexico City history, designated after
reviewing the table of contents of the history. We had
the Proenza 201 file available (I had advised that the
HSCA Spanish speaker. should be present as much of it is
in Spanish, but he was not with Blakey). We also had
the requested sections from the Mexico City history, with
portions sanitized, but which Mr. Hawkins would explain
to Mr. Blakey if there were questions.

2, Blakey wanted to know what we had, asking if the
Proenza operation file was there. I replied that the
Proenza file was there, which had the usual 201-type
information about her, but that the operation of which
she was a target was not there. Blakey stated that he
wanted the operation file. He was unmoved by a series
of exchanges. .

3. Blakey said he should see the entire three
volumes of the Mexico City Station's history. I pointed
out that: | and that only a
few pages mladé any Comment (part of which is error)
about Oswald's visit to Mexico and the ensuing investiga-
tion. He said that he needed it as background for an
evaluation of the Station. I replied that it would not
serve that purpose. In any event, his inquiry was
broadening unreasonably, and he was investigating only
the five-day visit of Oswald and what followed. He
said he was investigating CIA, to which I replied he
was not but that he was investigating only the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy and the investigation that

 

 

 

2223/9
14-00000

 

I asked if he had considered the possibility of Presidential
pardon; he had not. On that rather macabre note we parted,
with my undertaking to get some answer to him by COB today.

S.D. Breckinridge

Distribution:
Orig. - OLC/Subject
1 - OLC/Chrono
1 - SA/DDCI
1 - DDA
1 - ppbO

 
