 

 

 

Esve you deliberste? ly given us exy false informetica
concerning your past? Ho.

Ara you & member of the Cuban Imtional Party? Yes.

Were you eppolnted Secretary General of the Party efter
the death of Ttmsréa CHIBAS? Yes.

Noch Came: Bor °° tee theory oF practice of
Soviet Commmias> Ko.

Are you nov syspathetic vith the Comuniet World Morenent!
Were you ever @ manbex of any Camunist organization: Bo.

Were you ever a necher of the PSP or any other Cocramist
Party: Ho.

Did you ever participate tn any Commniet activity? 5.
Did you first meet Pidel Castro at the University of Haveon?

Did, yon eccccueny 7idel Castro on hts trip to the U. 3. in
19592 You.

Bevo you ever or are you ov-sorving Fidel Cestro {a any
inte’ Ligence capacity? Ho. .

Are you nov an agent of Fidel Cestro? Bo.
(Riss question ws posed at Subject’s request.)

Were you ever secretly connected with any intelligence
organization! Ro.
Are you nov comected vith any Cuban intelligence pervice! :

    

Vere you ever connected vith DIER service La Cuba! Bb.

Exve you ever hed aay secret coutect or connection with say
: Soviet or other Communist intelligence gervice? .

+ Sod

Fo.

Yea.

wt

 

w/t

  
 

40165-10114

ol

 

(re)

TO 1 Chief, Security Support Division Date: 18 May 1960
ATM. 2 Mr..Joseph Vidal, CT/Staf?.
FROM : Interrogetion Research Division

SUBJECT: rep: 40176

 

YOEwTTFYIa Der

Subject is a thirty-five-year-old married Cuben national who
recently fled to the United States and is presently residing in lew

York City. Subject, prior to his arrival in the U. 2, wes professionally

‘occupied as & writer and redio ani television commentator. He ia e
well-known personslity in Cuba. :

Subject ves comtacted by Mr. Joseph Vidal, CI/staff, vho debriefed
Bubject ‘ani obtained PRQ inZoration. Subject is being considered as.
@ possible PP asset by this sgency. — . ; . .
PROCEDURE

l. & polygraph tuterview.uas-arranged..or Subject et-the request
of Mr. J: Videl on 12 May 1960 at a covert cite in Washington, B. C.

 

2. Prior to testing, the undersigned. reviewed the. test: questions
with J. Vidal ani it wag determined that the test was to be basically
devined to assist im ascertaining whether or not Subject is, or has
been, syxpathetic to Comamian, whether Subject kas been 4 member of
eny Camamist orgenization, ond whether the possibility exists that
Subject is presently clandestinely connected with the Castro Goverment.

3. The following specific test questions were posed during the
polygraph exanination: .

Were you born oa 6 July 19a! kes.

 

' Is your true mame _t Yes.

Are you now using, or known under, another neme thet you. .
have sot told us about; Ro. : :

 

*.. Background Use Only
‘Do Not Reproduce -

  

 

"RETURN TO CIA --

sataceiegasie; wake a ot

ami testing took place from 1430 to 1630 hours. Mr.
isted ag interpreter during the interview and testing.

 

i
;
}

 

 
 

   

- Maestions to be atsurd in Light of who be vas and the public knowledges

' Jegitimete excuse for his sensitivity in this phase of testing.

 

 

Did you g to the Cuben Cohsulate in Mew York to obtain
@ passport for your soni Yes.

Did you go to the Consulate for any other rec .ca? Mo.

Rave you bed any secret coremnication vith exyore in Coba
eince you have been in the-U. 5.7 Mo. :

Bave you net vith enyooe connected vith the Castro Goverment
Gince you heve been in the U. 5.72 Bo.

(Subject qualified this question to exclude tho visit
to the Cubon Consulate in Hew York.)

FSSULIS AND CONCIUSTON

 

1. Cubject's overnll responsestp the ters questions listed above
Go not indicate celibernte ettempts at deception. It does not eppeer
that Subject 1a presently comectad with the Castro Goverment in any
Amtelligence capecity nor does it eppeer thet Subject ts connected vith
any Corramist orgerization.:

2. Subject's ettitude towards the interviey and testing in the
Snitial stage wes cooperative and friendly although he appeared to be
somewhat rogerved. He frankly edattted that he had not told all concerning
hia past simply because be hed been vaiting for a Strooger caneitzent
from our organization. Subject indicated, havever, that the information
be bed given about kinself up to the date of the interview was carrect
to the best of bis kmovledge. - :

* 3. As tha ectnal teating trogressed, and specific questions vere
repeated on tvo or more occasions, Subject became indigannt an? openly
aisturbed by the questioning. He stated thet he found most of the

f.

   

‘break with- fuse thet, Ce
oatierieduit th kh rmanice during” théitesthe waule" go:
end’ contiaue his enti-Cestro ectivity in any my possible to

    

 
 
 
 

 

 

ke Subject nentrested sensitivity to the questions dealing vith
Commaint symmethtes and wenbership fm Cocmanist organtentions. The
Yeeponses, however, were tncocsistent and did not eppeer to indicate
deliberate deception. Subject's only cumment wien questioned about his
Sensitivity was that he found the questions to be ‘ebsund” and ir anyone
hed read his bookd on this subject, questions of this sort would not be
beceazary. It eppearn that Subject, at least on the wurvace, hea @

 

|
|
\
{
4
|

i
1
of
q
4
:

cileghes armen pe «

ft

 
  
 
74-00000

Yel

 

wes made to probe this question any further.

' Subject replied by iudicating thet he wes satisfied tat he hed ensvered

 

 

$- Subject aleo manifested .« response to.‘the question pertaining i |
to hia visit to tha Cuban Consulate in Hew York. Be chowed no response

to the initial question, “Did you go to the Conzulate to obtain a oy i
passport for your soni" Hreever, when. the follov-up question was - UY i
Seked, “Did you go to the Consulate for any other reeson.",; Cubject 2 t
@id show some sensitivity. Subject admitted his disturbence berenese i

in his miod the qucstion was pointless, He camented thet hed bs bod
any other reason for visiting ths Consulate, 1t would bave been foolésh
of hin to have mentioned his visit to us in the first place. Bo attempt

 

6. st the conclusion of the interview, Subject bed calmed dow
considerebly. and appeared to be satisfied that he was not being subsected:
to unreasonable questioning or interrogetion techniques. Subject vas
informed by the umternigned that « final enalysie cf the test vould
be mide during watch time his rcaponses to questions, kis caments ani
qualifications rade during the interview would be carefully evelucted.

@21 questions truthfully and could offer no more to pruve the veracity
of his statements. . oa

 

 

 

 

05 /xr0/H8: tg

 

ae tagbeig ala gue ada

 

a

t

A

as
