74-0000

4 com Se aT ee, *
rad a & ar ‘
os + Ay
wedge .
Spas Todoroy RAUCH

According to Stefan, LALANOY played his role as agent prevecateur, Also,
Peter and Boris PSLILI07 aaii they doubted LAZAWOV'S integrity and that
they would kill kim if he. retumed te Bulgaria.

. 29. Regarding the brothers NISOLOV, informant states that learned te knew then
wpen arrival in the Plovdiv area. Bs regards the brothers a9 Boosst,
” patrietic and energetic. He refutes tha possibility ef cellaboration betwen
the police ani the NIKULOV brothers. They could very easily have turned
. the Trudovake over to the State Security.

Re Inforsent ie convinced that Patur and Boris PELITROY are strong nationalists

. + and anti-Commal tee Howe ver ng and ig
J gaans? LazaAng¥ wp unts.
eo. Arn Sak at Drama, at whieh 1 peint they started to defend hin, Petur

” See rage eee hat pprepriated cous Sania given to hin So be ceed for.

Sn Ed gies. . : Lo con ole

21s Informant had peart &@ let about the Gerjan, but nerer ssw then, Boria
ead told hin ebont the Gerjeni attack against the villace of Ferdinsndove
: 2 May 1951. Informant states he gaw a plane erutein: im the arva Sp..
pereral hours, but from Gala Mogila he could net hear any shooting because
af the Batanede: a

   
 
   

£

   

ae pee ate ‘ . ;

H | 7° Babgectts atateuents colndids camletely with those given ty Edravko OUNJARO.
. The two of them had plamed tho escape togetinr and since tha dvsertion have

spent all their tino tegethars . .

Jafornant ie of no operational use, since his only deaire ig to leave Greece.
In Greveo he hag been taken care of by an Atuuens religious ineti tution.

-: He hea applied for U.8. oalgration ani has already roceived the necessary

. affidavit, gpensored by the Orthdex Church in the U3. al

IED SN GS a pute ge

4
oo a lS ands

ze

Steonges -

  
 

 

1.

2.

Se

bs

 

 

ey

P .
Nee

i Earoe
4 Bpce TeJorey SIXTY C/,
é .

Subject was born 26 October 1922 in the village of Leleaikove, Plewliv, = -
@ulgaria. He was educeted in @ gominary in Sofia” ant later taught ab

tha sexinary in Sofia. From $ May to 22 Decent r 1950 he served a9 @
Trudeva: 4a Besnsr, Janbol districts from 22 cscember 1950 te § March 1952
ba was om leave in Lelenikewos from § March watil 6 May 1992 be again :
eorcvod he 4 Trodevak at the mew airpert ia Galclk. On 6 May be deserted
‘Bis unit emi escaped te Oreeos. On 21 Jans 1551 he surrendered to the

Greek authorities, At the present tise he ie in a religious ingtitate

an Athos. . os
Informant as a theologlen het difficultica wita the cocmuntet regime in|
ain Bulgaria, Simee 19h9 he had been trying te find @ wey te escape fron ©
Bulgaria, and while im Beamer as a Trudovak, he becam: acquainted with

a fellow Trudevak, Zirevko DAWJANOV, who wae seeking an opportunity te
eseape to Turkey. Several other frudovake hed tried te eecape te Turbay
bat wore canght, In Hareh, when NALKIS was transferred to Baleik, bo = +
Was befriended by amether Tredevak, Stefen PRLISXOY, who wag planning to
escape te Greece with ths assistance of ons Vasil LAZAMY, a NOO in the

9 Rezisent im Flevdir, Since RAIKIN wae unable to erganise the flight

to Turkey be decided te Join Stefan PRLTUXOV fer Greece, Bdravke DAMJAROY

@leo joined this grow.

fesard the emi ef April 1951, Stefan PELTIDY received a letter froa Vasil . .
TSZANO¥, eho told Stefan that ke bad foun a guide for ureece and adviged
hia te te in Flovtiy by 7 Hay, Stefan recsived a guilt of clothes frea

LALA PO¥'S wife, Maria, sistur of Stefan, and fren hie Uncle Boris b-$000

leves for the flight.

RATKYTa, DANJANOY and FELTEXOV tried to desert on 2 May bat could not maxes
it, They sucesedsd tn escaping on 6 Kay, walked tw Varma, forty-four
kileesters, boarded ¢ train in Varsa and arrived eitbept incidsat in Flewir
en 7? May shove LASAIOY and his wife, Marla, weltei for Stefan, LAZAROV tank
the group to a little forest near ths village 0? Bolestiou and left tien
with the priaise they would be contacted the fallowing night by one ef bis
soniidasats with feod amt weapons, who would teke further care of thes,

“A elgnel(whietling s certain eong) waa arranged, but the contact, Peter

MIEDLOY, aleurderstecd the signal and the Trodemks did net meat hin,

Tas following morning the fradevaka want te Pleriiv in sparch of LAgahoy.
They found LAZADY and also Borig PELTLEGY, Stefan'e uncle. The group

Jere immediately for tha village of Markevo to Cind LizA@V'S confidant,
Potar MELOY, Walking in separate groupe, Borie PELctLeOy and Edravke
DAWJaHUF lost contect with tin others and proceeded along toward thea village
of Branipsle ghsre they were later located by Anda HUSUIOY. Sareute

te Martove, YAZABOV, bie wife, Maria; and Stefan PLTMIOY, met Petar KOMOLOY,

 

i

Sea aa nD ean nEnTOnnE CN MNTTCRDUINE A rw unr res One nt ER]
 

  
    
     
    

poo 3 3 . on Be as myo er
aan - a & 6 pa ___

RETURN TO.CIA
nd Use Only —
Backgrou! produce

 

 

mf Ontot, ne , cane
27, 5-16 . .
rest uot ot arias Atzne, avees} : ata
” REBET eare— Ops rational : og
“meme spas teterey RATIEY
Refs [POA ASULe (Kapok us)

“Attached herewith sadlest's etory of his part Jn the escapes -"
the soven bediss aentioned ia reference. iepert prepared by MEIGER.* .

   

 

a a
i.
| i

a
be ween Rice ee wo ce {

ol
 

 

Te

9

3.

emg mong

@

Tho miguoderetanding was cleared up and Petur NIROLOV took the Tradovaks
to a hideout noar Markove, gave Uwe food, three rifles ani sone eemmition,

Here they were joined by Edravko DALJANOY, cacorted by Angel MICSTOZOY.

On 9 Bay the Trudevaks were visited by one Ivan Todorov STOJAIDY, who
explaiaed tha use of tha weapons the7 had received. The sem eveniag
the Trudevaks were taken te Uele Koylle ubout twenty kileseters seuth ef
Markove. Vasil LAZANOV and Bie wife eeaited thea. Putur HIEDOLOV left
the group and returned te Bis village of Karkeve.

LAZAADY and his wife spent the whole day ef 10 Kay with the Trudoveks .
trying to persuade then get to go.te Greece, but instead te join the

Gerjant rebels for whem be was planning to organise ‘a nes croup in the
Flovdiv eres. LAZAI07 explained to the frudevaks that he wae unatle te
find a guide for Greece. The Trudovakes refuesd to join the Gorjeni and
insisted that LAZASDT keep his promise and help them in their escapes

LAZARD promised again that be would look for a guide and left the :

Trudovaks in Gola logilas

Dering 12, 12 and 13 May the Trudovaks aaw no ono. They lost faith da
LAZAROY and decided to go te Markovo and send a mesaage to Stefan's father,
Potor POLIEDOY, to mvt them the next day in Plovdiv, Borie POLCENOY went
te Piavity en lk Vay and erdered te» Trudevaks ta return te Oola Mogila
where ba would bring then foods

Ou 16 Mey Ivan HWIKOLO7, with one Tifew GIU%7, who ‘formerly maintained
Lialoon between the village underground organisations and the Gorjent rebels,
went to Gole Hegila, GIU‘OY effered to tuke tne Trulovaka the wext day to

& Gerjani group if they decided te Join thes. At this point the Trudevaks
Raving lest all hops for escepa to Oreecs,ani since they could not reaaia
fadmfirdtely in Gola Mogila, they agreed to join ths Gerjani rebels. .
fhe Prudevaka waited fer GIUROVY for two daya and later learmed that GTURDV
bed been arresied, Gn 18 Hay tho Trudovaks wont to Markeve whore thy aseat

. the sight im the heme of ens 02 DAHJANO7'S relatives.

Oa 19 May RALKIU went back to Gols Nogila, while DALJANOY and FELTEZOV went :
te Plerdiv to find BAZAROY. This tim LAZAROY prosised he would surely find

thes a guides
oa 20 and 1 May the Trefovaks spent in Cola koztta, and 22 May Petur

| PELSEEOY arrived at Gela No,ila with the nows tat Vaeil LAZiSOV had bees

arrested on 19 Mey. On 23, 24 end 25 Hay the Trudevaks remained in Gola
Hogila without any contact,

Gn 24 Vay Petur PALICADY returoed t dela Mogils ani told the Tradovake
ELICE

walneal

 
74-0000

1S.

1b

MW

Esmee
Spag_Tocorey Ral Lee |

1 .
that LAZAWO7'S wife hed been arrested on 22 May. fe aleo told thea thet a
lewyer from SoMa, Stefan STH/ANLY, a frieal oc. hia, planned te join the
Tridavaks in their flight te Greece, but since Nie friend's house saa under
police surveillance, Petur did nut dare eentact him in Flevdiv, Petur
promised the Irudovaks to find a guide either for Greece er for the dorjania,
but under so circusstances should: the Trudevaks leave Vola Mocila witil he

er hie brother bad fowl a guide,

Prea 26 May to 6 June the Trudovaks remained in Sols Mogila or its imadiate
vicinity. Tho liaison with friends and relatives was maintained through

@ wignal(whigtling) which wae changed for overy day by the person who brought
thy food. The villagers in the area learned sf the presence of the dasorters
and the police were alerted. Boris PELTEROV and Potur NIEOLCY had plenmwd
te hide ths Trudevake in Ivan KIVOLUY'S home in KMarkovo in order te
facilitate feeding th cesertera vntil a guides had been found for theme 7

On 7 dune Boris PELT TSKOY brought food and advised the Trudovake to ge the
following night to Markove, Upon arrival there they learned that Petur
WINLOY was arrestei ani released after two daya on condition that hs weld
work for tha police and hand ever the Tmidovaks te the Wilitia. The
Trudotska vere advised te return te Gola Moyila where they woald be jJoinsd the
fellowing day by the bretoers KGNOLOY ard PELTETOY,

On 6 dune Ivan an! Pator MIZGlUY joined the Trudeveks on Gola Ucgila, and

en 9 June Boris PELTAEZUY cam with food and the news that hig brother, Patur,
did not couaider the situation tee sericngze Btefan MALINROY decided te

fied bis fathor in Branipole end perguade him te join the flisht, but because
ef the Militia patrol no osuld not reach bla, However, on 10 duna Borie and
Botur FRLILKOY retarned to Gola Legila, a

en Tk dune the gronp started toward Greaces ‘tre berder wag croaged on 19 June

eat on Zl June they surrencare) to the Oroek authoritieas

18,- Inforusat girea the following information on Vasil LAZAMVs “He sar LAZADY

fer thy first time upon arrival in Plovdiv on 7 Hey 1951. Inverzant csonaldera
LAZABOY ingincers, chan sable and witheut ensrgy. Informant later learusd
frou Stefan PLT YOY that IAZAdoY had been 2 legiennsire in the past. After
the say be joined the Cosrnnist Youth Organization and was secretary for
Calturs end Propaganda, Luter he joined the Muigarian army and with the

“help ef aun relative wae proneted to W9O. While LAZAW/'S comradda in tho

ao ena ener Bom oe

aray had bewn commfestaned ea officers, TALACY was toli that he must first
accomplish acsstning for the Communist Party, Stefan FOLTLECY expressed the
opinion that twy, the Trodovars, might te the price asked of LAZANOT for te
promotion, LAZA%y repertetly had already ordered his officer'a uniforw.

cue tw etme coe . - ;

 
