 

   

LLL LD OD DY IY OT .

         
    

an PRE EN an a
2 : =) f

 

American, Embassy
Pa Strandvages 101

STOCZHOLE No —

  

"EMBASSY OF THE |
_Uiiizo STATES Uc AMERICA

     
     
 
 
 

> bed 2 - 1953
MAIL ROOM . . / cite
STOCKHOLM .

 

 
 

ead? WWE the eee ete

 

3 on

"Oswald? Letter to US Embassy, Stockholm.

RYgarding the language in the Subject letter, which isn't standard English, it

is difficult to say that it reflects any particular foreign (non-English) background.
*Outsmuztled*-is Germanic; and "Sowlet" may be Germanic.or Slavic, and both may

tend to be suggestive. However, a Chinese who has studies! several European *
languages may easily mix the idioms or spellings of any of them in an effort

at English composition.

A more significant detail is the name given, Ryo Liang Yilan. "Ryo" is not a
Svandard spelling in any known romanization system used for Chinese. ®2" is seen
in the new Chinese Communist national system, but never in combination with

Byo", "Ryo" is a Japanese spelling.

In the nane given it is not known whether the Chinese or western presentation
is used, or, in other words, whether "Ryo" dr "Ylan" is meant to be the surname.
Among Chinese syllables which could be represented by the Japanese "Ryo" are
Linc, Liang and Lung. Of these Lung (TC: 7893) and Liang (7C: 2733) are used
as surnames. In either case, "Ryo".is hardly a name by which a real €ninese
would identify himself. . -
The unit which keeps record of Chinese Cormmnist diplomatic and official
personnel abroad will very probasly oa able to determine whether there is

ap actual person in the Chinese Conmaznist Embassy in Stockholm with whom the
name given in the letter can be connected. The US Enbassy. will have neans

of learming whether that person was in Stockholm at the time of the letter
writing, and whethar he hag subsequently been removed,

 
 

 

 

 

 

enone nyse pea nA ICI LEONI

necanetinen sseiuabeant ts sectinnap altace ep ene ae ere

THIS IS vt EOD A RED CRE!

 

+ yas 25/11-53.

The President of the United Stutes of Aserica, John F Neanedy was
assassinated by Lee H Oswald oy direct order of the government of
the Peoples Republic of China. Iee H Oswala executed the act alone
put there was helpers and rescrv. "Now ull is over" wos password

to his customers. Oswald was a fully convinced Communist tut he
must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswild already
when he was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China.
Later he was spy for us. When Lee E Osvald had returzed fo USA we
COntECLeEU Nim sbew acu crested uy nis ming “you have been & Spy
for us" and told hin what could happen to him if FBI got inforsed.
Now we had him. He got his last inZormstion in Mexico. /It was not
_gecd to assassinate Zennedy in sexico/ "Fair Play for cuba" was
starved only to confuse and throw the blame on Castro vor the ag-
ssassinetsi. Owr government thought that USA should. attack Cuba Pa

when Kennedy was murded as the orginaztion wus behind the assassin~

ation. When Cuba was attaczed by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend

himself. Iu that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-
ted. We should be alliieted with Sowiet then we would asx them for A=
bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should
win. this.wex and whole the’ world should be Communistic, Then we should
assassinate Rrustjev and other Sov:ret leaders end we would be leader

of the NeW ED. When this letter will reach you they have maked

away with cc and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsxugcled
from our Embassy in Stockholm where the Embassy is arghinese spy-sncol. -

ty name is Ryo Liang Yuan, Officer in the department, for State-secret.

 

 

ae tes ern pen etn eR thE eae tte tr edemmnee

If you do not belive this letter explain our hate to USA.

   

” 7 aa

 
 

 

 

DB tice FE5EG © Fage 2

a ‘The lotter won.pocted .fron tha. Ctossnolu Pan yort oftieca,
wiieh ia located in thy contral radivy terminal in Stocshoin.
AMM mail éeposited in stroct 2142 Uwe in this eres or fa tc wont
oe oities would bo precegssed tnroigh catia etation. -

’

  

@e ‘Tra cancellatica cachat on tow exveloye 4a, identical tn
all respects (forzit, m6 Ye, rakes etyle and length of Killer
bars) to exesplora avalluvie in cur oitfiece.” :

 

ff. The posin-a te correct for Gmdicn internal ceil cud the
yeitegs Stomp is c* current isaac.

g- A yosaible irre: culority is the tice Ing between the intersel
éete of tha lcttier, the ate of the poctaurs, and tho date oF receizt
in the fmerican Entassy. ‘ne totel tine doo too internal dste of
ths letcer to too tine of receint is cizht dsys, ths tics tetwcen
the date of postiag and the dete of receipt is nore than tiurce days.
This trousit tims of moru tasa three ¢aya for datraecity rail eapyecrs
aSrrequicr when compared vith the avosr.ce transit tine of cnly twoe
three days for errival beiveas Stocukile and the Uaited < 3.

 

3. Tho text of the letter warraunts ecce cocmonts because: a mmbor
of. pocullaritics were noted - cuiie fron pre cpelling or tyyics crrers @
watch seem to indiccts a Svecich writer. ‘he following words represent
either Cyedish sjellisg or-medistsation:“sucerv", "etablicsed”; “maddy”
“Krautjev".s Other exmmp males of Svxiiso paiemar and syotax would be:
et" {os post tense), “in Soviets” (Swedieh fom bat not ezelling),
“no wee spy” (without islefinite aritels), “FBI, USA” (withous cevicite
article), “showla” (rather town “sold")}, ‘cutmagrlod™.(cveiica-past. ..
parlicizle fors), ond “waole wa world” {pire Scdich fors).

 

5

   

 

 

 

 
 

4, Anothar significant detail te the nexe given, Ryo Lise ¥ Yion"
“Ryc" 13 not a ctandand syellicg in aay imcw Renontsation gysten usod
for thinecee "R" is even in te sev Caizeta Communist naticn:l oystes,
Dut vever in combinstion with “yo™. “Ryo 43 « Japanese epellire. ia
the com: given it is not known wocther the Chinece or Nestera preses=
tetion is used, in other words, whether “Ryo” or "Yuna" is s2unt + be
tho suruame. Among Chiness sylissles waich could be rerpresested by the
Sayeooe: "Ryo" aro Liao, Idan; asi img. (2 these Lung (5027193) sad
Lfong (2232733) ere used as surnivwo. In either case, "Ryo* 4a na
& owe by whica a real Citnese woulé identify hinselt,

5. In mamery, ond based o2 thu alove taformation, it to conehiied
thot the letter was tranmitted vin normal Swodish postal enare:s The
letter 19 probably a “crunk lettay”, most lizely written by a once,
using a Svedish-keyboard typewriter and Swedish stationery.

   

 

a

 

wrens Beats pea ae
 

recedes fe a apiappeessnes Atha see side ea serninne slat i SONNE DS ERNIE RT A OA, 7 ee een
vee oe fen Mids ghee sleorgetechaar boi tate es mine distort
oe r |

 

 

oe

   

_MEXCRAMDUM FORs | Caset, WE/2

 

 

ATTENTION - .
q . . . . . a .
. { SUBJZCef: «°° Techafeal /nslysisa of Letter and Envelope «
| *yB ches 435
i ReFExGHCZ1 —-—~-—SWE/2 Mano dated 13 Docexber 1953

\. In response to reverencut meusst, an oricizal tyjcvritton .
i avttrs end enveloue eddressc’ to the frerican Dotassy, Sex xholg, -
! were + axecaipod in onic» to determine the origin of tia ieticr and the”
j uotiowlity of the vriter. Pa

a. Tho following conelasions wore arava concerning ths letter
and caveloyas

ee The typevriter in qiestios is equipped with en obsolete
Style of Gernenemide tyre Wika aecconling to our reieronces, vas
fitted on a rocker of typowriters xcs in Germony curing tac 19s
and cerly 19328. Tne poss Sibte pases would be Evasver, Toryzedo,
- Nexeodes, Rhelanstall, Urania, Orga, Fortums, Coctincrtel, Kappel,
j ° . @Grema, Triucph, Morz and roscibly samo others. Cf these mikes, *:
‘ . the Torpedo, Mercedes, Raotrowtell and Tetum were prosably the.
2} qwost. widely distritutcd.

be Toe moctine gn cuantion is eqcuinced with a viack ant red’:
- wiktes. The keylcand is verve prorecly Evedich, as show by two
= trikeeovers: urleuteu for hoa mi "2" for “a”. Tacae .
“ ehsrcctera are adjacent cu tie ctanlard Cectish keybosrd, but not
° " om the Germen. The umlauter wis 26: used in the street cidress,

 
 

Se “Strendvagen" (vbera the dot: ciowll have teen rlaced over the
- second “a"). This might te either a simple oversight or an cttenpt
i to © conceal the writer's femilingaty vita the cosvect Be CLL Eze.

   

- @s ‘the paper of the letter is ‘of the intsrsaticn:l standard
(om) eize "Ae which is clocst universally uscd in & . Te
lincnetextured stationery toons to ce rather ecomca In Evden.
Yao two eeaoller pieces of blank papor match the letter pacer vith ©

" respect to width, thickness, color, texture end lock-tiruick, and
vere probably cut from rrother sheet of the cans type. D2 envelope
patches specimens of Swediss envelo;es taken frag UB/5-Postal.
Tatelligence files.

   
 

1 tet oe

 

 

as
74-0000

; Aj orange tenor eter oot enka uaa petra ate ssinrensrosatr ost neritic gobo inet ponte gti
a ’
oo,
$ . ~ -

 
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   

DB tens 96505 ~ Faga 3

6 Por further information concovndng the. typevriter end parer
enclyssa, end the Swedica etyle of lan-munyp usage, contect tr. Jon
Beck on “2009. For ferther intemeition on the srelling of the
ostensible writer's nuse, you may contuct ire Gerald Worth ca «2008.
For further information regarcicg vas Postal aspects of this cece,
please contact Hr. Robart d. Yeascs an 22H}.

7. Tae original Istter and exrralope are being returned herewith.

 

 

 

Gidef, 2D/Da

Attachient: (1)
4s stated .

Distribution: :
Orig & 1 = Addresses

1 ~ TSD/GARB/ALR
a_i ~ sp/DB/3
1 - DB files
1 - PI chrono on
1 ~ Case 4361 :
t80/DB/5-PI/Rivanke/x2303/ery

  

ee
eS

 

 

 

 
74-0000

  
 

eetsoen icicle eB AI LAS ty NM

 

 

RE

SORANDUM FOR: TSsD/D3/5

ADISNTIOU:

 

 

SUBJECT; Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope

1. Attached is a letter mailed to the Acerican Exsessy in

sockholn rurportedly from on of7;

Exbessy in Stockholm. Also includ

ead sheet of varer which presi

. letter within the envelcne.

of these attachments to ce

ecrecerning the origin oF envelope, typevriter, end

3 used. If you have any ca ity Tor comparin:

wher correspondence originating with tne Chinese C

Extassy in Stockholm, we would like your opinica on whether or
not the stationery, typewriter, and envelope are of the type

normally used by that Exoassy.

ar in the Chinese Communist

 
  

a is the envelope <
sly was used to en
orform a technics.
aver can be cete

    

     
  
 
 

 

  

  

2. Because of the sensational neture of the contents of
the letter and the necessity for our checiing out such allesa-
. tions as quickly end thorougnly as possible, it is requested
- that this technical analysis be undertaen on a priority vasis
! and that the undersigned by notified ty phone as soon as eny
conclusions ere reached.

3. Please acknowledre vie receipt of the attached
ané ensure that its whereatow wnen im your custody, is ¢
naster of record. We prefer that the letter and envelor

    

 

 

& : Ly a SC

a 1

; SECRET ; Me toa xlszatic

 

 

   

 
  

ate ie netae Rots

 

 

 

   

 

 
