 
 

ATTACHMENT TO OWOT-2911

 
 
 
    
   
 
   
  
  
 

   

 

en ‘sosial revolusjon

i
i

aesaial

«Pantereny Bobby Seale kom til Oslo idag

7 — Vi vil bevise at det ‘sosia
ilistiske samfunn er bedre enn
i det kapitalistiske:.vi vil innfore.
idettei TSA og vi vil samarbeide
| med revolusjonzre: i alle jJand,.
;3a Jederen for det amerikanske

i «Black Panthers-partiet da han.
“17 morges kom Hil Oslo. Seale

   

wn eM ot

 

 

 
 
   
 

| mellom rasene i Ten Sem ar-
‘ranger for beseket ; Norge: star-

ghettoene: vil: bare
| oke. folelsen’ av sort’ rasehat, hevdet
Seale, som understreket at-de-<sorte |’
panteres ikke gnsker site: eget,-ad-.

adskilt 1 200 ar; Og nu.er det pa |
tide A. g4 fremover.: sa jen. meret.

portsett fra. t gjentatte. henvisnin-.
“| ger til polities: USA:som-han kal.
- {ier «grisero (pigs)

; “ ek chelt.‘kan |
partiet gjorde. seg: ‘cient var: da
Bobby Seale og en annen ay. par~ godta, sa Bobby eal
tiets ledere, “Huey P. Newton, i:0

 
      
 

sie og hevdet-at det sorte sam-
urn ma isres opp ul .selvforsvar.-|*
jan tror izke p& flere sékalie chete
sommeres, fordi han mener at ‘def.
e samfunn har innsett- util-
akeligheten ar spontane oporor,
en effektivt arbeidende organisa-
her har man.respext for, la han

 
   
        
  

  
     
 
 

av de forste tiltak-partiet har |
i verker A‘ organisere: felles

. é@ negre. Dernesi haper part:
“ppa & organisere sosialistiske

 
 
 

 

 
  
 

-arbeider nemis |
“bare for negre.. men. forall

    
 

. (militant). Vi, hevder}
‘odvendigheten ay seiviorsva . det

      

 
 

  

Marthin Luther King var. ikke frem-

  

 
104-10071-10102

 

    

CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION

 

" SECRET/RYBAT

   

MARKED FOR INDEXING

 

  

. Chief, WOMUSE . _[NO INDEXING REQUIRED

 

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

Chief, European Division CAN JUDGE INDEXING

 

 

 

 

i>
Chief of Station, WN

 

a [miceotua

 

 

(ee

RYBAT/MECHAOS ‘Transmittal of Clippings

 

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Transmitted herewith are three untranslated clippings from

Norwegian newspapers which may be of interest to WOMUSE.

 

 

 

 

 

“Attachment:
Clippings ~ h/w

Distribution:
2 - Chief, WOMUSE w/attachment h/w
2 - Chief, European Division w/o attachment

Tso

 

 

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
. OWOT-2911, 19 March 1969
~ CLASSIFICATION ~ “| HOS FILE- NUMBER

 

spon /YBAT 1 999-006-387/3

 
 

/

"Black Panthers" for a

re

Social Revolution

"Panther" BOBBY SEALE Le to

Oslo today

we will show that Socialist society is better than Capitalist
society; we will introduce it in the United States and we will
cooperate with revolutionaries in all countries, said the leader
of the American "Black Panther" Party when he came to Oslo this
morning. SEALE is on a visit to Scandanavia to express his views
about the struggle between the races in the United States. The

“Norwegian "Black Panther" Committee and Red Front arranged the
visit.

Nothing has improved conditions for Black America under former
President Johnson ane President Nixon's proposal to introduce "Black
Capitalism" in the ghettoes will only increase feelings of black
‘recial hats asserted SEALE, who emphasized that the "Black. Panthers"
are not seeking their own sevarate society. Tre races have Lived

sevarately for 200 years and now it is time to go forward, said the
very eloquent BOBBY SEAL&, His manner of expression was judicious and

polished, aside from repeated references to the "Police Force*® in the

US, which he calls "pigs".
14-00000

 

7 fot - co

Toe "Black Pantser" Party beceme known for tne first time

 

EY P. NEWTON /
ocemntrtneretn fester tioentaly

organized armed patrols in Cetober, 1966, which were to watch police

 

treatment of Negroes. NEuTOk is now in prison for shooting a police~

man ané one of the Party's goals is his release.

fhe USA is a police state, SEALE continued and he ‘maintains that
black society mst learn to defend itself. He does not believe in
many so-called "hot summers® becausa he believes that black society
has realized the inadequacy of spontaneous riots. However, he asserted
effectively working organizations are respected.

One of the Party's first efforts was the organization of break—
fests for poor children, for most ‘negroes. The Party next hopes to
organize a Socialist municipality for those who must be interested.
tne Party works not only for Negroes, but for all oppressed minorities.
rn addition, the Party is seeking to cooperate with what SEAEB calls
Rprogressive white" elerents in society.

i

re do not eopreve the term militant. We assert the need of self

“

turned out to be urgent. Even Martin Luther King
_ Ree apace RHR

 

everything else had failed. STOKSLY

our " shadow Government", but he makes

 

statements about aggressiveness and separatism whick we can not vonpletely

i)

 

to Norway with a Mao badge in his cap

no television cameramen- appeared to cover the events.

 
