74-00008

to ‘cuxlawontal objoetives of the AD CeO-OItte

(2) Tia" ripte Proprayt hese objectives ani o-als Aonand

fhe preceration of a trinle Pro ror, to wits that ov Wnanco, that

-of propavanda and tho atiltary.
A reduced ecamtttes of dolouatea of the FD and of croup

B should study and p:opvare the rolaticnoilp and tue plannin: of these

three precranses ;
(a) Tue Vinanctel frocraat The li) undoratends that the
Cuban poople ahcald cont:idute to tho roneral oxpensos of the
underteking within the Limits of their poovibsiltios, ‘end the

Diroctors of that organization have statod froquently thet the

resources provided by Group & should be considered as @ rart

of a wer loan to be paid to tho said Groip ! by the Provisional

Government which may be established after the overt:row of the

Castro rovimos

(bo). Urgont Expenses: the undortakin: 5. ovan vefore closing
ite preliminary stare, roquires a certain sum of monoy nneded
for whet may be called "initial workin: capital." Tho urgeney
of these needa oxcludes tho possibliity of wattin. for tho prie
vate contributions of tho Gaban seaples the said gama of mnoy
must form part of tho fonural ican of Group 3 to the ~1.p."

Ca ee

The gemorandum explains fui thor olens the vasdcus aus-esticns
’ Matters, song

in relation te the prorram.: of propaterda ond milite :
fereral observations relative to any:pact, inteliicunce or alliance
with menbere of the deposed Batista fering end the urreney of Lmaed=

fate eoticns

  

20, Three daya later, 8 Wune 19:0, the writer sent i.

FRANK Bhim.: another memorendun and a confidentiel ono titlod,
 

Cone Mservations on tae idnenctlal fro, ram," wiisse Sountah

‘hee vorelon la the followinet
"(L) te unwritten acree mnt - ‘sntlononts Ackaercnt a= (ge!

ferring to muncrandun of Sth of dans) ontered inte by the *7D and

Group B is becod on tho support and mutual ald and assistance by

both orranizations with the abjoot of acitevine couon objootivese

(2) whe finensial pro‘raen suy-ested in the above eited meme

randun should determine the ano: ant of meney ecneidorud indispensible
by oxperte and technictana for carrying out the different ateres or

tho ‘obsoet Of tae came, that Le the overthrow ant destruction of the

Castre recinges
(3) 1 te not hecenuary to to an expert cr toohnistan to

/ anderatand that tant ascunt of ewney will rosoh a Gonsiderabl7 large

firure.

{4) It bes teon Clearly a::eed that Croup 3 ie capable of prow.

viding tho necessary money for cur (reat enterprine and that the loan

of those funds and technical aasintaree of the Group ate and should
be 1ta mst &eportant sentributions to the auccess of the common
CB1806

(5) The stp, naturally, owcht to and will try to obtain as

mich money ea may be possible in the presont and wallelmown cireun=

atances, ‘but 8s that moral and {trarctel obliration micnt or might
not be realized aurficiently rapidly, it would be advisable to cone
elder the contrioution of the "=D as purely contingont and scoondarys
on the other hand, to rely on the funda eventually obtaino:+ by the
FRD would take away a8 much from the S.ntlenonts Ayroamsnt as the
fundamental eomtribtaticn of Greap B te the common undortalding of {ts
si:mifieunco ord essential and bastlo purposes.

(4) Aa hes boon pointed out in the memoranda eo: & June, thera

-9~
74-0000

of the varfous BAVOCLO, “Conate, e-Littoal ond sl Llitarys of:

tio war aralnat Cautros
Bey

month of the founciny of the itp, the writer sent -:5 BhaAgk

Tae Sth of June 199, before oonplotion cf tho tirat

. @ personal and cont Liontlel mencrandam, Wicee Spanish -

 

verpion reads as follows!

(1) A Centlenon's Azreeent? The xD has added its foroes or
its strencth to Group B throuch an umritten Pact -= Gontlononta
Acrecnont =< with the object of £4 chting unti2 the overthrow and
destruction of the totalitartan Marxtat personal ALotators: hip Loposed

on the Cuban peoplo by idol Castro and hia international Communtat

ellies, and in doing this, to save the Hestern Homlsphere of the
m@-rtal threat which said dictatoralin Yopresents for tho system of
free democratic Lire which is tim purpose of all the American lepube
iicse ;

A sormon purpose enyendered by the rrave oormon dancer fa,
8 @ result, tho basis ef the Gontlomontsa Avreoment above mentloned,
729 high nature of its objactivos frevs it from avery kind of inter
est purely political, personnel or econcsic of any of the pertios to

this agreemont. It is a pact, a covenant, an alliance, inepirod by

the desire to save Cuba and the Amo-tcaa or the very real Cornunist

dancor, guided by the necessity ot Helping one and anctiwi acainst
the eorton onenmy, and ajreod to in ood faith end wlth a sincors une
broaleble determinations

The IRD reoornises with a deap nunge of vratltuts the conere
ou and effieloent eid lent to ite ‘hroctors by Croan 3 tn the first
ata of its organization.

This ate-e has Slosed almoat completely and tt a: roars

necescary to oxamine the procedure and the resources Necessary to

-7-
]

 

“Gell that the ettuattion or Cavan public opinion in the midile

@xi woll imcwn idnitteal sic fealtlos. Tt is Naceageary to roe

ef 1950 was far difrcront frum thet retinins todey. 1 oure
“were very few FFCUPS, sectora and se Vvomun tg orcanised at that. ;
tinge Lxeent for tue UR Wiese offlolal representation parti-
eipated in the founding of the Frente, all and eneh of the

other organisations that have bolenzed to the Mrente and now
Ppartain to the cuben Keveluticnary Councll, arose lony after

the 12th of May 1990. Tt alinntd bo cbsorvad thaty in spite of,

the efforts and manguvera oarriad out by wollelmow @lomsnts —:

of the fencsed Hatista diotatorship, the FRD ocnalstontly : i
Closed ita doors to theee olementa, Tie minimin propron agroed:
to dy tho Frente on beins founded, amplifted in the meting in | ;
Mexico Clty upon orcanigine {teolf conatitaticnally Synthesized :
with tho ware. approval of tho United States, the rundarental :

objectives of the strug: le arainst Castro, ;
3. The third of the conditicns or besea now oxanined, dew»
apite the oppeattion end the roaervations of ‘Bome ci the counters
of the trente, was accopted without debates ancny other reascna,
beoause the Yeleniny cLrewmatancea, thut tay thosa inheront at
the berinnin:, evercoamia; oncoroun diffloaltion, of a ‘strucrle
&fatcat the Covarnment. os Castra atill supported by tho majority
of the Cuban Poople, oblf; od those Soun'lers to ainit, while any
other thing micht be Aimossiiile, the Provokiny sltauation which
in every stated derres or that mirht de atated In the ecntrol
system threush the muans of a oubsidy unilaterally ndatelatratad

whtah the CIA was exerelaing= and ita exercise ovor oll and oa6h

oi w
 

Femocratico de Cuba.

3e The reunton in Row York wat GH lasted caveral Taye waa

 

\

attendad by DkO. Accu: tL fe DE Vai NAg Suelo CANE dor Pee
bang OD: SAD PLES

 

TASC .ig ANU L ARTIS, ANAS VANGAS

PRAGA and with RiCanDo Len le,

Ye Me FRANE BE vDen ascoapantod be ‘ih. [opened

the session held in the New York jar Asscclation, reintorating

 

to thoss present want had been manifoated in “Maal, in whieh
were expressed the basis or conditions of the ta ernnent or
“mited States for lerndin= tts oollaboration ang backing to the
foroes Opposing tho Castro rerime.
Se Those basis or conditions oan be surmart so.) in the
followins mannor? . . ,
“as The Government of vaohineton delecatas to the
Central Intelligence A: “OnCy, represunted exclusively by
She FRANK Bours ‘» the povers and authori ty noceacery to
carry out the cooperation promised to tho anti-Castro
revolutionaries, said Covernment, in adtittion, offietally
overlooks the relations established by CIA with the Cubang
and therefore recormends the fata possible discreticn
in the development or these rolattons. :
be The Cuban rovelutionarios Should erento a central:
and auprene organ or directorate which weald have charge
(of tha proparation, dtraction and oxecution of tho war
aralnst the Ceetro rerine and the draftins ant o~eenbion
of the mintmum Provran witeh would constitute the real,

the objective and tho reason for the oxistenas sr the

“i
74-00000

to the activities of this crventem, Vary acon, nevortholess, it

‘Lshod itselr fually in tant ana with {t hero Vero eatablishod

 

atrusrlee In tuts mies te: ‘Lroctorate 84 311 be ropree
sented the totality or 3° Tweoasary the Migority of the
Sectors and proiog elroaty o:zantzed Cr Whica may be
orra. ized in the future. “nLy to be oxconted from this ,
aro the foctors Poproscnting the dsposod Latista reci-a,
Ge The Government « f. the United States throu-h the CIA,
will facilitate and acrinister the inifoponnibie Means for
orvanizine and sarryzine «ut the Strerelos The Fel ef, will
adjust ite budret of O7ponees to what ta in'feated in the
matter by the CIA. ‘ho ubans, novertheless, remoin at
‘liberty to Collect fumia intspondently of the CIA, to
carry out this beste. “P conditions the CIA would ‘funétion |
under the name of Bonder roun (Grupo B) translation. of the
Come: cial title, Bernier ABs elates, ;
6s Tho first of these beses or conditions was cearrted out
on the part of the Frente walle it vas possible, The transfer
of the Fxosutive Comalttes of the “ip to MNexioo City was are

Ponzod amd the maintenance in secret of whatever was related

becane evident dy events the taterial impossibility of maine
talning this organizaticn secret and from that finally the
Txecutive Comaittee, aftor effieia'ly constituting ttself in

“axleo City and of some of its menbera rosidin- there, estabs

the varicus somnlasicng (propa:anda, planning, military, finane
celal, ete.), operating certs 2: the Frente, 4
Te The sooond of the eanditions or basos was also fully

carried out by the Pole day elthcuch rumuing into the inevitable —

“Sa

 
 

Lb a Rela Hes [Ae

wee Age Yt

Vend.Gat Tosument Titled "The i eensitt
GomeLh of Cisba" ae Strictly Cem ldentlale

  

1 Pece-ker LOL :
LEMON py gp ne
Uf Reo Ol) ty hie fh

 

 

 

onoef the hove Latinary

 

le cxaainetion cf thta document contasnain> buth Mac-ste: ermd

Spanish parte, inileates that tro

blo reohy o: the @uthor, Mee Pes ar
the proposal tor reco niticn of tne | aben
ry Council aa the do frcte belli-erent Sovernmer.t “-f

the Enelian porti-n only wou interdoed tor the

3 witii tnia propoank in EnoLioh is

coverine sheet summery of
hevelaticng
Cuba indicates that
eyos of the Ue. Allicas Als
the annex comprising four

 

n:

 

 

Crocioolovak. National CounctL in 1515.

mont tein Epeniah and eomprisas a Lott
Sof the Hov lutlonary Cournctle This lot or ta date? 15

the riemboe

en dich-pert eontainto: @ trlef

Wide Pithidsy and o twoepare

 

Paros reforrin® te the reecinitica «f the

  

The renainior of this degue
tor from SALT lNZ FRA ta

redonber 1951. Attachad to tiis letter ts @ Strictly tecret and

Confidential: dooiment titlod "Execination of the | olatd:
Sovernment of the Jnited States with tre Cuban Lev-Lutt.
ts indispensible and wrsont revision by Ure. £LtK.9

and a tormula for 4

acl the
ry Council"

    

SAK? Ling PO AGA, dated Miami, Plorida, 2: November 152. Pellewing

thins there le tis lunsthy docwnent. eonteinine a tetal of
plus two morse pares of aummary, for a
in Spanish takes up in detail tho rOLatic
tho Sender Croup and inter between the (
This dccument In Spanish alco nas Loneth

betweon tho Ue £6 Government and ths
fecto)or oni also mses reference ta
Gov ormment-LIneird

tion of the document is vary frank ant sonnei

de ani the De Gaulls vovernmunt-ineix ile.

17

    

    

al of 19 pa oa.

68 between thio
Ce and the Te 2De

rtrects from tie a:reeinnt

-Zechoslevak Covernmont fe

the rocopnitien —£ tha

    

   

nat belliverent

  

Following 1g 6 translation or the Spanien pert of the entire 40oUe

acto from ths reeove

mente but witheut translatin. tn doteil tne extr r

nitten of tro Czechnaloynit Katicngl |
tiret the lotter addressed te the mi
Councils

227 UX lth Stroet, Hiant
Pecomber 15ti, 1951

Sirt

sumetl on 3 Sestenber 191%.
wers of the Cuan hevedatlengery

Strictly Confidential

le Permit ms to sond you attached nereto with a strictly

Confidential oharacter @ memorand 7 entitled “imasination cf

Felations o/ the Covernmont of tho calted

Fevoluti nary Counetl,"

-~l-~

tates wita the Cucsn

and a formula for Ate in\ieoonelite and
 

$04-10227-10156

 

Waist FTN

 

   

 

hier, WHD

 

F/AmEUD,/ Hi .
tl] of Pisasvoy Memo No, 120
lyblon of the Di, Pedro MANTIAEZ Fraza_
document,

enol . : CHEEK AT OE

 

 

LY.

 

 

coreg ry

 

UirGA~2920 . \

FPoranrded vader sepurute cover 1 PASSAVOY Memo No, 120,

@ trunslation of the Dr, Pedro MARTINEZ Fraga document,

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENT y
Memo No, 120 (3 coples) (i856) — be)

DISTRIBUTION . fe
3.= Chief, WHD w/atts. (US) 4, ed

 
74-00000

Wount revisten and (b) mencrandea ti tled "Uha Peco nt tton sf! the . The

Fev huQenary Coaneth of Woo," Yrtof rosie of the OVOrchins

 

@e The Cuban Nev. Lut lonary veume L sueceedad’ tay : ‘croatia

Tove Lutionary Front a. cuba as tho sacrems orvmigation of an nige
z

torle anterprise whtel initlated the l2th or “ay 1950, wos based on

 

the representation avsunod by the 3 ante or tno cuban people opposed
te the Cormuntst Aletatorship 9° }4del Caster. ani reoolved to cenbat
it until its overtizrow. ee , ;

3. Therefore, in virtue ov thle rerrceaentation, it fa the
Pesponaibiiity «2 the “eveluti nary council of Cuva to work unceas=
ingly. ror the -oat rantd Success, the dtentty. and the suprema inter

eats of the liberatins crusado, to maintetn intact the arthority with

‘whieh ft is clothed and to carry out whatever offerte and sacrifices

may te dovandod for the eftletency and iLenity o> ita own mliaston.
he Tho “rente, at the timo of ita irth, agreed with the Cove

ernoent of Washin-ten represonte! in the form which tho attached

mene raidiuuna dosoribe, an agresnont or pact unenttten “— a contle-
ments asreemont a= resulating tho established relations botwvecn both.
These pleng and initial efforts have eavelcoped into a atate o- war, -
which la proclained by thousands of dead, 50,90 priscners and une
sponkable aurfering ond anvtish inside and outetde or Cubase These

rolations, as a result, Bhould de the cbfect of Careful revision and

of the motifications thet are Jecancded by the events, tho history,

and She intornaticnal law and the hener ean? intercst of Cuba and of
the United Ststes, /

Se I implore, therefore, your patriotism, the clear resopnie
ticn of your responsibdt lities oresant ond future, the daicnity and

tho triumph of the revolutionary caso, end your concept of the

w~ 2a
 

 

honor to ripots end the eblf aticns te all of us tre nartictpate
in tals atrur;ley to invite you moat cordially te e- onoider, to
support ani to defend the formula sropesed in the a: Sache’ nosore
anda in crdor to normalize and lovalize the rolaticns osbablishod by
the ronte and its SuCCeasory, the Cometl, with the Cow omnnent of
Washington and with all the othor ow ernment «

Thanking you for your kind attention to these Lines, I renain

Very truly yours,

MARTINEZ PRAGA

  

Attached momcranda marked Strictly Secret and Con: ‘Adontiel; wth
the titlo "fxaminaticn of the Kelnations of the Sovernuent of the-
United States with the Cuban j-ov luticnsry Council" and formule

_ for thelr indiapensiblo and urront revision by Dito PLEO MAN DPLNEZ
, PRAGA dated Novenber 2h, 1941 at ‘Gaal, “loridas.

Te Baoksroind (12 Mey 1969 to 17 Asril 1901)

2. Eepinning tn the secon! half of 1959, diplomatioa and
consular rezresontatives and arents cf the United States in:
Tlavang, eatablished, maintainod and promoted secret ocnvergsas
tions with vartcus individuals cppoacd to tne Castro recime,
Menbers up to that tlme, for the moat Part, of tho 26th of
July tovement..

2e Some cr theao individuals soved to Meat and Neu York
durin: the first mnthe 62 190 and in Merch in Mipmt MDs
PRANK BEM GT, representative of the Central Intelllence Aroncy

(CTA) bes can prelintnary conv reaticna with them wiich dovolcped

on 12 May in the Tcunding in New York of the Frente Pevoluoicnario

=3«
