74-0000

 

 

P

sernceneorammein enna win A

‘ that he must not tell Renninger and White his true nane

if they asked hin. Davis was concerned that the two ’

exchange professors might not conduct themselves with

sufficient discretion and caution in this contact. I ;

assured him that both had been instructed not to seek

out Martin nor to invite hia to their quarters. However,

if Martin attempted to see them on the premises of the

Institute, they were not to reject the contact. [ added

here that we would re-emphasize this in a letter to the

4 Embassy after we had had the initial reaction from NSA,

. whom we have just informed of this, and also had a chance
? to read the Martin file. Davis then said that he had

informed the Secretary of State of this meeting and that

further correspondence on it would be handled in CIA |

channels. !

t

i

:

j

: 6. Davis" last remark on this matter was an ex-
t pression of mild concern that the press might get news
| . of this chance meeting and cause all concerned con-

i siderable embarrassment if it became public knowledge.
i I said that whereas at some point there might be a

i reason for publicizing our knowledge of Martin's ac-

! tivities, we certainly agreed that at present it would
! be the worst possible thing to_have happen.

ORY
David ES Murphy

Chief, SR Divis

 
    

 

“pet
fe

 
 

104-40219-10097

 

 

7° . . erence 2 nore —y

~ om Cosheseripy?

 

19 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Discussion with Mr. Richard Davis,
Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for European Affairs

1. I visited the Department today for discussions
of the Cherepanov and Martin cases with Mr. Richard Davis.
Also present was Mr. John Guthrie, Chief, SOV/EUR,

2. %X first showed Davis and Guthrie a copy of the
preliminary traces on the Soviet officers whose naaes
appeared in the Cherepanov papers, They were particularly
interested in learning the true name of Counselor of the
Soviet Embassy Fomin. Both officers were cautioned that
this was sensitive information and could not ve used
overtly. I also informed Davis that the University of
Illinois Librarian Miller had just returned from his
trip and that Mr. sd] had left for Iilinois to
interview him,

3, With respect to the dinner at the home of the
Soviet Consular Officer Begunkov attended by. Nr. Thomas
Fain in Moscow, I informed Davis that our records indi-
cated that Begunkov was an intelligence officer. Uavis
said he suspected as much and that in his view the Soviet's
principal interest in wining and dining Fain was to dis-
cover how we got the Cherepanov documents and why wo re-
turned them. Davis added that if he needed anything to
convince him further of the mistake in returning these
documents, the Fain-tegunkov dinner party offered final
proof, Both Davis and Guthrie remarked that Ambassador
Kohler would recognize the error and would insure: that
the error was not repeated.

4, Finally, on the Cherepanov matter, Dick Davis
asked if we had any objection to his showing these papers
to Ambassador Thompson. I said we had none and I mentioned
that you were also interested in the Ambassador's seeing
the papers. I asked that when the Department is finished
with them they be returned to us.

S$. On the Martin case, Davis was told that Drs, ~ ~~”
Renninger and White nad a second meeting with Martin
who alleged that he had been told by Soviet authorities

 

 
