74-0000

E.

g,

_ future difficulties with Mexican authorities.

. investigation or house search for 4 period of time sufficient to remove compronis~ .

Coordination. Coordination with other PEPRIME elements or the tlexfcan goverment "|

 

Commmication is primarily with LIONION-1; with LIONION-2 only in his

absence. Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls H
from LIONION-1 go through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the H
LIONION-1 safe apartment. This apartment » Which would appear to be a LIONION-1
love nest, is in another area of town. The Station KURIO? technician, . |
Hugh T. FRANCOITE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once & week. The Case Officer, i
Lawrence F. BARKER, meets with him less frequently. Whereas LIONION-1 knows - {
the true name of the Case Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

I
i
Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered, by Mexican |
authorities. as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed {
to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JMHAVE |
area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering |
their income, This would probably hold up unless they were caught in flagrante

_ with the KURICT automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such ;

refinement and complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization.
In any event, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mextcan
president's office. This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protection,
enabled him to weather the tax investigation and can be used by him to overcome any

" Under Mexican law, the principal (photographic) activity of the project is :
not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic operation would not of - : b
itself result in arrest or prosecution. It is usually possible to stave off:

 

ing material from the premises. The LIONION base house was once cleaned completely :
in one evening and could agein be Cleaned, probably in less time, if circumstances i
should warrant. ~ :

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability. .
On one occasion. AMKNOB~1, a JMWAVE asset, was shown a nearby pbuilding (not the !
LIONION base) by a PBRUMEN REubassy officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo
base. : : .

LIONION-1 is known by sight to some PBRUMEN Embassy staff personnel who have
observed him in the neighborhood. .Presumably they believe he is a Mexican. To
avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the
PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURIO? in separate
correspondence to prepare new passports for both LIONION agents so that they may
travel outside Mexico, “ : . :

 

Security measures enployed inthis operation are designed to nake it virtually
impossible for any opposition service to Link LIONION personnel with the Station. -

is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged...

 

0004036 ,

 
 

   

. Zoe total annual cost of Project LIONION is $10,478, distributed
nown below:
FY 65 FY 66 Total

 

LICHICH-2 salary
13 nonths @ $320 $1929 $22h0 $4160

LIOHION-2 salary
13 nonths 2 $150 900 1050 1950

OW Basehouse 600 690 1200

 

jiOd Safehouse 264 26h 528

both houses 150 150 300

 

fe ; 1170 1170 23h0
tographic film, paper, : a
chenie ais, and miscellaneous )

 

 

 

    
 

Salaries for LIONION-1 and -2 include the customary year end

on ‘ lary. LIONION-1's sdary was raised from $200 to
compensate in part for his renunciation of a
sales post that he might devote his full time to the LIONIGH
operation. = salary has remained at $150 per month since her
recruitment in 1961. No salary changes are contemplated during the
project year.

bonus of
$320 mont

0004097

 

 

syrrggin
 

  

PROJECT OUTLINE

|
CRYPTONYM ___LTONTON FIELD CASE OFFICER , Adu URE F Rak

Lawrence F, BARKER

STATION Mexico City _... CHIEF oF ono Nltmet lt

Willard C. CURTIS

 

fl
!

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval.

8004083.

   

 

    

 

esceey | aon |

  

b-/aa/1

ReSid f SF Hsin a? 2 Le 3

 
TOMOTTEAOAR]

    
      

| ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
vat!
ip

 

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

  

  
 

  

Chief of Station Mexico City

SUBJECT ”
Project LIONTON

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: EMMW=13207, 14 December 1964

covering the services of the two agents heretofore known as LIFEUD-22
(201-288243) ane LIFEUD-~23 (201-30560k) . This project was anticipated in a
Paragraph 4, pase 9 of the LIRANCH project Outline transmitted by Refer-snne, as

_ 28. To avoia re~typing at Headquarters the Station has taken the liberty
of Provisionaliy essigning eryptonyms LIONTON-1 and LIONION-2 to these agents,

Please advise if shis is correct,
a .
aA . c Adursuge F (end

oo! Willara c. cuRrts

 

Attachment:

Project Outline, tart side hf Q :
Projeet Outline, rignt side use 6004092.

DE

tribution:
~ C/TED w/ate

 

3

 
  
   

| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-25210 df. 6 Jamuary 1965
CLASSIFICATION HQS FILE NUMaER
I SECRET 150-6-122 {2

 

 

 

 
 

A.

B.

 

 

 

Identification. This is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance 3
operation against the PBRUMEN Enbassy in Mexico City.

Objectives. The operation is designed to (1) furnish photographic coverage
during daylight hours of the entrances of the target installation, (2)
dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the
target, and (3) keep in readiness'a listening post for the monitoring and
recording of evertual technical penetration operations of the target.

 

The target installation is the ‘PERUMEN Exbassy compound (including
Consulate) in Mexico City. The above-listed objectives are accomplished by
two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street fron
the target. !

t
'
The project is in consonance | with Priority A, Objective 1, of the

‘current Related Mission Directive, for Mexico.

1 .
Background. This project, herewith presented for approval for the first time,
does not represent a new operation. LIONION activity has been going on since

1962 and costs have heretofore beén charged to PBRUMEN FI funds. ‘The —

operation produces photographs of| persons associated with the PBRUMEN Embassy, °
both staff and visitors. These photographs are normally reviewed for identi-
fica ions, by the LUMEN section_at the Station, then shown sevarately to
LETAMIL-9) ana ria? who are _—

They are subsequently forwarded @ CI section of WH/SA whére they are shown
to PERUMEN intelligence defectors! AMNIP-1 and AMMUG-1. Of those assets to whon
they are routinely shown, L ‘AMTT,+9) has to date made the largest number of
identifications. The photos have proven of great value. Within hours of the
arrival of a new Bubassy staff mediber his photograph is in the hands of the
Station, In addition to the identification of staff and visitors , the photos
(accompanied by a log kept by the/LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action
(arrivals and departures) and details of personal associations (who associates
with whom) which are of great value to the Station in mounting operations against
the target. oot . . . . _o

 

 

 

 

I me
In addition to photography, LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 are often called upon
to do visual surveillance of the target installation end LIONION-1 is essential
to the dispatching of the LIEMBRACE surveillance team against. individuals _
associated with the target. Because of the presence.of police patrol cars: in.
tae vicinity, the Station's mobila surveillance assets. cannot come close to the
target, hence the need for LIONION-1's dispatching services.” |: wp te

 

The presence of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 also insures continued occupancy of
a valued piece of real estate which will be used as a listening post when the

Station succeeds in installing additional technical surveillance devices in the
target in the form of concealed radio transmitters.

 

 

 

wy

 

 
 

D. Operational. Assets (Personnel).

 

SECRET/KAPOK

=

 

LIONION-1 is a young PBRUMEN lawyer in exile. He left PBRUMEN in 1960,
planning to continue on via Mexico to the United States where he resided in
his early years. His two brothers are American citizens, one a desk officer
in the Department of Commerce in Washington, the other a police official in
Tampa, Florida. While in Mexico LIONION~1 was recruited, as LILILY-1, to
perform PERUMEN operational support services for the Station and, once having
a taste of clandestine activity, decided to remain in Mexico. LIONION-2, his
mother, was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2, as a basehouse occupant and
operator in the LIFEAT/LIERODE technical operation almed at the PBRUMEN
Eabassy. At this same time LIONION-l also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and
the two worked together as a team. In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked
together in processing the take of the LIFEAT /LIERODE/MKTRAP installation, now
lmown as LIOMEN. At this time their cryptonyms were changed from LILILY-1 and
@ to LivaD-22 and 23, respectively. In the latter part of 1962 the two agents
began the present photographic surveillance operation.

LIGNION-1 was granted an OA on 18 May 1962 by HMMW-10664, He was
LCFLUTTERED on 8 October 1963 ’ HMMW-12064., .

 

LIONION-2 was grented an OA on 16 May 1962 by HMMW-1O660.

i . .

LIONION-1 is the mainstay of the operation. LIONION-2 acts as his assistant
and fill-in at such times as he is absent from the observation post. Both serve -
principally as observers and photographers. LIONION-1 also acts as-a dispatcher: -
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team from which he is compartmented. ‘Dispatching
is done by radio using pre-arranged innocuous code terminology; the team does not
kmow LIONION-1 or his precise location. LIONION~1 also processes on the premises
all photographic coverage of the main Embassy gate through final printing, cropping
and mounting. Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is processed through the
negative development stage. |

the agents, that as PERUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might

be brought woon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out
of line. Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and violent aversion
to, and determination to bring about the downfall of, the AMTHUG regime. An
additional motivating factor is that both agents actually enjoy what for many would
be monotonous work. Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort of work.

|
i
Comtrel is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of |
i
1

Both agents realize that they are working for PBPRIME intelligence? LIONION-L
eppears to be aware that he is working for KUBARK. The cover utilized by LIONION-2-
is that of dependent mother. LIONION-1 passes.as a would-be writer who can afford -:
to dabble without notable publishing success because ‘of family landholdings indo 0:.
Tampa, Florida (inherited from his deceased fatter), which enable him to live as.
a "rentista," one who lives on income from sources other than’ gainful employment.
His rentista status is registered with the Mexican government. In October 1964
this cover successfully withstood intensive investigation by Mexican authorities
checking on persons of questionable status fa tax collection purvoses. The
Station plans to boister the writing cover with supporting documents from a
iiterary agent in New York City; these will be requested in separate correspondence.

 

 

0004035

 
