74-0000

Cooly e

 

(The meeting then continued with the President, McGeorge
Bundy and McCone, I discussed the foreign aid figures as included
in the 6 December memorandum and the special report on Soviet
Foreign Economics Programs of 25 October, and stated that I
would prepare for the President some special graphics which would
show Soviet foreign, economic and military aid, both extensions and
draw-downs, to non-Communist countries and Cuba,

NOTE: Mr. Rostow raised the question earlier
as to the validity of comparing our aid figures with
USSR's aid figures because the latter did not include
aid to satellites, His position is that since we include
aid to NATO countries, particularly Turkey, Greece,
South Korea, etc., we should examine USSR aid to their
satellites in addition to Cuba. This should be examined.
I do not know whether the figures are available.)

The President reviewed the Checklist and I made the following
comments:

1, E expect the USSR oo cpand the test ban agreement to cover
underground tests and it was quite possible they would soon make claims
for vast improvements in seismology, I mentioned the recent informa-
tion on the LASER beam.7

2. [i pointea out the seriousness of the Cambodian situation
stating the fact that the Khmer Serei clandestine radio had been located
in Southeast Thailand and that my information was that the Thais were
not inclined to put it out of business because the Cambodians were
broadcasting unfavorably against them

gq
3. fF: noted the additional indicators of possible conflict over
Malaysia. 7”

I then explained to the President the source of our information
that the Soviet Intelligence Service, on orders from Moscow, was
attempting to stimulate communications from India to him, Chief Justice
Warren and the Attorney General, urging a full probe into the
assassination of the President, I stated that this report comes froma
very reliable penetration and we evaluate it quite highly.

We then discussed the assignment of Peer de Silva to Saigon,
I stated that the staff had made such recommendation to me, but that
I felt it was only a good move if he was to remove Ambassador Lodge.
He felt that to do this would have political repercussions and would be

<=

a
 

c c

tantamount to a vote of no confidence in the military junta, that it

would indicate President Johnson's support of Diem rather than the
present authorities, Therefore he stated he could not move to remove
Lodge but hoped that Lodge would remove himself and become a
candidate for the Republican nomination for the Presidency and would
be the nominee. (Note: I told the President he wanted things too

easy). I told the President that Lodge would destroy de Silva if he
opposed his assignment or did not like him, or wished to get rid of him.
The President said he would communicate most emphatically with

Lodge in this regard and asked Bundy to write an appropriate communi-.

cation. I told the President this would do no good, that Lodge was
absolutely unconscionable in matters of this kind and he had resorted
to trickery time and time again’ during the Eisenhower ?administration
and that he never failed to use the newspapers in order to expose an _
individual or block an action, I therefore could only conclude that if he
was going to keep Lodge on that it would be better to stay with David
Smith as Chief of Station, who is a most competent officer but young
and not fully experienced, but this proposal did not meet his request
that the best and most experienced man we can find be, placed on the
job, The President said he would exercise the full power of his
office to keep Lodge in line and felt our responsibilities in South

Vietnam are so great that CIA should have a "four- star man" on the job and

that is what he wanted.

JAM/mcm

4

GP by os
74-0000

 

 

€ (2

6 December 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with The President - 9:45 - 6 December 1963

The first part of the meeting involved a discussion with Rusk,
McNamara, Rostow, William Bundy and McGeorge Bundy concerning
the procedures on MLF.

Rusk requested, and received, approval to brief General
Eisenhower and will arrange to have Amb. Merchant, Admiral Ricketts
and General Goodpastor present at the briefing. Rusk reported that a
group of "young Republicans" opposed the MLF. :

Rusk also received approval to brief certain Congressional
leaders in small groups, but to intimate that no government, including
the United States Government, is committed to the MLF program.

[Rusk gave an optcestic report on progress and stated the
most important objectives of the MLF was to give the Germans a sense
of participation in nuclear weapons planning and operations under a
scheme providing adequate control by other Allied nations, including
the United States.] -

(McNamara stated aa —— had advised him that the
MLF was a ''must'' or else the Germans would undoubtedly pursue an

independent course in developing their own national nuclear weapons
resources. Rusk indicated that failure to proceed with the MLF might
force a German-French arrangement on nuclear weapons, McNamara
stated there was no military requirement for the MLF but the force
will have a military (?) utility and will permit a reduction in
planned United States national capabilities and hence the cost, which is
considerable, is not really an additional U.S. military cost.)

The President then suggested a briefing of Congressional
leaders, both Democratic and Republican, Senate and House, substantially
along the lines of the NSC briefing of yesterday afternoon, [I brought up
the question of security and pointed out the dangers, The President IS
asked that I develop a 10 or 15 minute briefing on Soviet strategic
capabilities, Soviet defense and Soviet economy, going just as far as I
possibly could without endangering sources and methods .7/

ACTION: Discuss with Cline, et al.

oN ay

Gye.

 
74-0000

vgher etre

96

Soviets or the West, such as Sukarno and certain South American
Countries, so that they will understand they are not leaning on very
much when they lean on the Soviets. "]

6. Explained that I had given a complete briefing to General
Eisenhower and conveyed to the President General Eisenhower's
expression of friendship and support.

7. Discussed briefly my talk with Robert Kennedy and urged
the President to send a message to Kennedy but not to see him until
after the first of the year. I asked for the President's approval to
invite Kennedy to accompany me to Saigon.

NOTE: This invitation has been extended but Kennedy

felt it was untimely because of personal family commitments,
responsibilities to Jackie, concern on the part of his wife,
Mrs, Kennedy, and for other reasons.

8. Mr. Bundy joined in part of these discussions. The President
asked what the Attorney General intended to do, that is, stay on or leave.
I told the President the Attorney General intended to stay on as Attorney
General, but it was not clear to what extent the President wished him to
become involved in the activities outside the area of the Office of the
Attorney General, such as, intelligence work, NSC problems, counter
insurgency matters, etc. I explained to the President that I had told
Bobby he could not bring back the intimacy of relationship with the
President which he had had with his brother because that was a blood
relationship, not an official relationship. A type of relationship which
is seldom found between brothers and never found between officials,
either in business or government.

9. I gave the President a copy of the memorandum on Soviet
Foreign Aid.

JAM:mcm
74-00000

8. In connection with bilateral and multilateral
actions involving the cooperation of the OAS and nations
of the Caribbean, Mr, Bundy stated that the nature and
import of the recently discovered arms cache in Venezuela
constitutes a point of departure for such actions as search
and seizure on the high seas or an OAS~sponsored quarantine
against arms shipments, Mr, Helms then briefly described
the nature of the arms cache and the plans involving those
arms as set forth in captured Venezuelan communist documents,
Mr, Helms showed a map prepared from those documents indi-
cating the manner in which the arms would have been used
to tie up the city of Caracas during the recent election,
Mr, Martin then briefed concerning OAS action with regard
to the arms cache, He said that the committee appointed
by the OAS to investigate had called for additional
evidence from the Venezuelan government which would take
two to three weeks to assemble, He said that he felt that
the OAS report would be out in mid-January although the
question of Cuban defense against the Venezuelan charges
had not yet been resolved, Mr. Bundy referred to the
efforts being made to increase the effectiveness of sur-
veillance of arms smugglers in Central America and referred
to the possibility of an OAS-sponsored search and seizure
on the high seas.

9, Under Secretary Ball stated that the Department of
Justice has warned that a number of students, some of more
respectable stripe than the last group which visited Cuba,
were planning to try to visit Cuba during the Christmas
vacation and that there is evidence of larger numbers
planning to do the same thing during the summer. He said
that the Attorney General was bothered by this and had
suggested the relaxation of present rules concerning travel
to Cuba. Mr. Ball said that the Department of State is
tentatively opposed to such relaxation particularly because
of its effect on Latin American countries, The President
strongly concurred with the Department of State position,
He said that he did not propose to change or relax present
regulations.

 

 

 

 

 

Desmond Fitzgerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
74-00000

13 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion with the President, 13 December - 9:30 a.m.

1, Introduced General Carter but was unable to explain his
responsibilities,

2. Introduced, Peer de Silva. The President spoke briefly of
what he expects of the Station and the representatives of the Governmer
in the Saigon community. G g

3. Reviewed the Checklist. {)I emphasized (a) the dangers of the
hostages in Bolivia, stating however that while 21 lives are extremely
important, nevertheless, we must avoid a policy decision the conse-
quence of which might mean the lives of an undertermined thousands
of people in the future. In fact 1 was saying we must not give the
Communists the upper hand in this argument. I explained the critical
location of the prisoners, and (b) 1 called the President's attention to
the international oil situation and the deadlock between OPEC and the
international oil companies and the opening that this is affording the
Italians and possibly the French.)

; 98
4. Lotea Item C in the notes, stating we felt, from sensitive

sources,| _ observation was incorrect but there was a possibility
of a sufficient withdrawal by the Egyptians to make a favorable demon-
stration of intentions by which we could persuade Fiasal to withhold
military aid to the Royalists for an extended period of several months. /

NOTE: Carter and de Silva left the room at this time.

96
5.4 told the President that subject to Rusk's approval, I intended

to issue a series of articles on the weakness of the Soviet economy,
drainage on their gold supply, over~commitments on foreign aid, etc.
for the political figures who are wavering between leaning on the /

Ge
74-0000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting at the White House 19 December 1963
PRESENT : The President

The State Department: Under Secretary George W,
Ball, Deputy Under Secretary U, Alexis Johnson,
Ambassador at Large Llewellyn Thompson,
Assistant Secretary for Inter-American
Affairs Edwin Martin, Coordinator of Cuban
Affairs John H, Crimmins,

The Defense Department: Deputy Secretary Roswell
Gilpatric, Secretary of the Army Cyrus Vance,

Joint Chiefs of Staff: General Wheeler,
USIA: Deputy Director Donald M, Wilson,
The Treasury Department: Secretary Douglas Dillon.

The White House Staff: Executive Assistant to the
President McGeorge Bundy, Messrs, George Reedy
and Williams Moyers.and Gordon Chase,

CIA: General Marshall S. Carter, Messrs, Richard
Helms and Desmond FitzGerald,

1, The President arrived at the meeting approximately
five minutes early -- prior to the arrival of several
members of the group including Mr. Bundy, Without a formal
introduction I commenced the scheduled briefing on the Agency
Cuban program at the urging of the President and despite the
activities of the Presidential photographer,

2, The President appeared interested in the number of
agents inside Cuba but made no particular comment concerning
the program until the subject of economic denial was intro-
duced, He asked to be told what additional measures could
be taken to step up the denial program, I said that the

 

 
 

 

   

SJ a 19 December 1963 - ;
Netac! 4, Bel.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
(Wilden

SUBJECT: Meeting with the President on Cuba at 1100 on -_-_-—o—
19 December 1963

1. Included in the meeting were Acting Secretary of State
Ball, Acting Secretary of Defense Gilpatric, Secretary Cyrus
Vance, Secretary Douglas Dillon, Ambassador Thompson,
General Wheeler, Mr. Donald Wilson, Mr. McGeorge Bundy,
Mr. Bromley Smith, Mr. Edwin Martin, Mr. Ted Sorensen,
Mr. John Crimins, Mr. Gordon Chase, Mr. George Ready,
Mr. Bill Moyers, General Carter, Mr. Helms, and Mr, Fitz~
Gerald.

2. The President, after full discussion, postponed any
sizable operations by FitzGerald, primarily to avoid any possible
embarrassment to our OAS negotiations on the Venezuelan arms
cache. We are authorized to continue to put forward proposals
for operations and also to continue preparations for air ops. The
main thrust was to greatly increase political action with Canada,
Britain, Spain, Italy, and others in an effort to promote greater
economic blockade.

3. Mr. Bundy later stated that his analysis of the meeting
was that the President would continue to approve smaller
FitzGerald-type operations even though they would be relatively
unrewarding if they would assist in keeping up the morale of the
troops on shore, of our agents, and otherwise help in keeping the

ball rolling.
f

Marshall S, Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Acting Director

  
74-00000

principal soft spots among free world countries appeared
at the present time to be Canada, the U.K. and Spain, The
President requested a memorandum setting forth specifics
concerning leaks of economically strategic items from these
three countries together with recommendations as to what
could be done to stop these leaks, He requested Under
Secretary Ball to prepare to make demarches to the govern-
ments of these three countries as well as any others
engaged in the Cuba trade contrary to our interests. He
appeared particularly interested in the subject of econo-
mic denial and returned to it several times,

3, After hearing a brief description of our progress
in connection with promoting disaffection among the Cuban
military, the President said that it did not seem to him
that we had gone very far along this line and that one
day those concerned in Cuba matters, including himself,
would have to face the "grand jury" (of domestic public
opinion) to account for our progress in our attempts to
find a solution to the Cuban situation. I pointed out
that the program being presented was, with the exception
of the economic denial item, entirely a covert program and,
if run at full capacity, would tax the capabilities of the
clandestine services -- in other words, that if new and
broader measures against Cuba were to be undertaken, they
would have to be within the overt field.

4, After a brief description of the sabotage and
harassment program the subject of the proposed Matanzas
raid was discussed, After hearing the pros and cons the
President stated that he did not feel that the present time
was a good one to conduct an operation of this magnitude
which carried a less than 50 percent chance of success, He
said that he felt that such an operation, if pinned directly
on the U.S., might cause the Soviets to move in the wrong
direction with respect to Cuba, i.e, increase their econo-
mic aid or their military presence, Recognizing that a
cessation of raids would have a bad morale effect within
Cuba, he agreed that low risk operations, with admittedly
lower economic and psychological impact, should be con-
ducted, He further stated that planning for such opera-
tions as Matanzas should be continued. General Wheeler
raised the possibility of air strikes against major targets
by autonomous groups, This was discussed and it was agreed
that in view of the fact that preparations would take at
least three months, these preparations should proceed and
the question re-examined at the time that capabilities have
been perfected,

a
a}
14-00000

 

5. On the question of autonomous groups the President
asked the cost of these operations (five million dollars).
He also asked the cost of Cuban operations for the current
year (21 or 2 million dollars) and the total Agency budget,

6, The intelligence summary concerning Cuba prepared
by General Carter for the meeting was examined,

7. Mr. Bundy then reviewed current U.S, policy vis-a-vis
Cuba. He then went down a check list of possible new courses
of action taken from the Department of State paper prepared
for the December 13 Standing Group meeting. Unilateral
actions presented were:

(1) Air attacks by our autonomous groups. No
further discussion,

(2) Selective relaxation of U.S. controls against
exile groups in Florida, No comment on
Mr, Bundy*s generally unfavorable presentation,

(3) Military feints, No comment on generally
unfavorable presentation,

(4) Low-level reconnaissance flights, Comment by
Assistant Secretary Martin concerning the
value of keeping open the franchise for low-
level flights. Acknowledgement of certain
value to the intelligence community. No
decision requested,

(5) Extension of efforts to eliminate free world
shipping from the Cuba trade, No decision
requested,

(6) Presidential declaration concerning U.S.
policy on Cuba designed to stimulate anti-
Castro dissidence in the armed forces,

Mr, Bundy*s comments indicated that there
was room for a stronger statement than that
made by President Kennedy in Miami,

(7) Talks with the Soviets and the Cubans, Not
elaborated and no comment,

(8) Other forms of covert actions, Not specified
or elaborated.
