 

 

104-10169-10318

. St de
eo oe eo

         

  

     

business Sunevik har talted a:
personal data on tundwix (fi

   

 

OFHY Se7S Sp STL BVIFEs account of saucer vith cud at Ms
26 shy GL evening of 26 spr 61, Subsite vife left and t=
about Felsinti anc Fini-n in senorales.

apt Annan atu 22. A.2 on
tea ren alone... Flked

 

 

;
cubd sald after ecraduatic, i

fron the University of oscow Lay I.ctituto, te held a First Lt. offteer 1;

"comission and voried in the tient of Lefense in Lorcow ttruout the wirs. - i -

" After demobilization, te noi rene back to the Untwersits: of Mascow for

| ; more studies and transferred to tho Joviet Fometen Service o. Halsinn4 : |
a

a

Li

 

is his. first foreim post a3 2 vico cansules. (for details see att to
this disnateh filed in ¢uncvik 701)... Suntvik is nog lonerr at feenh,
Because of oor jot : rfortance and uns“vorv bacheround as well as
. danger. of security risk, Sanivil iss astad to msi¢n on’ May Glees
va- | Att also gives account as reported tw Bundvik of bis trip to TSS

eoe

. prune tnbecsiines Bifis “yy PRES ESE nee amen

Subj met CLASTONBURY (KUBARKER)Rtotatebxofétetakct®?) first tine at
Consular Corps function 9 Aug 61. . Subj invited Clastonbury te Lonch i
game day, Subj pressed Soviet position re Berlin saying Berlin will be
_test of Soviet-U.S. friendly relations and insisted Sova would sign
“i pases treaty. (details being pouched) =
“Botails pouched by UFHA] S219 (copy in Subj 201) qv)
Subj said he had 7 ra] in the artillery. Said he wes a Urreinian
Po; o was 35 yre old. (be ca, 26), Said that in 1944 vhen

 

A at eo etn gr GF

Lote mmetiee:

i . : ‘be only 28, spent three months on the Bulgarian front in the artiliery

i and participated in the liberation of some of the Bulgarian Tear" wines
3 Present German situation discussed... oe toned °
4

Said he had been stationed in :
Kishiney, Moldavia... Subj said he would probably go on leave after :
tourist season in October and would bring his §-6-yr old dau back to :
Finland w/him, She was visiting her grandparents in Hosvow. Subj ;
said he had given up stgdying Minnish since it so difficult, CLASTONBURY
found Subj rather dull, uninaginative, undiplomatiosss ;

aw

    

ae peta ot ene ae nen eae BR Ae Cem a bate at ears ee tlie

"St sant iene mn ae nn tin» Seine

a

)
|

a

REDCAP sheet covering period, Auguat 2960 to 15 De
a oe condor 1942

 
