 

7 EYES UY >

sp Rami ‘writes inthis cbapter'(p;
_ chapters, ‘be general failure af inflltzation efforts into Guba,’ the rell-up
-ef those that got there, and the'poor record for delivering supplies t6 those
; gotten

 
 

2 AYES OLY ~

‘2 Bs

   
   

        

a tad chapter Hamiltca Tevela pome eritictom at Ambas
Bonssl, ‘whom be. tescribes as ineftactual ‘and'whom tie ealls jo “tumbling

Len : we on atic yelations with Cubs, ‘as “unwelcome”, —
because he felt him to be ™ 7 yeither soft oa Commenisra ox ot leaet *.
ribly < about the issues? {p. 96). Hamilton effere his criticlem ~~
Fee e erie sovotetien torssyoe Castro tes long -
which was: find-

   

1TIO
 

AD:
74-0000

 

Ghaptes Tt (commencing at page. 45. This is a second Cheptor BT and,
yy was » talswambored.) “ls .

   
   

: sevnized Hamilton's office was to be independent
c Hamilton's,

eae wad ave Mack ts atm tn OUtobne 1960, Tal ome
ehiléren w ‘he should be living under senate oot back te:

Pai
cere this his principal recommendation, but Barnes , z
scbacosntly that Ow te onan ants daelaped witzin Cl So far as Hamilton

“ject for the Vice President. “Hlanniiton states that Cashman advived him that |

_. Nixon “s@ Chairman [sic] of the National Security Council, was the real -
TEEeE pus veblicd te pe joce" and the Administrition's focal polst and troubla-
a regarding it. - “The General gave Hamilton his private telephone

1s the event that be hed something for the View : President's urgent |

 
74-0000

Jin both Chapters II and Il) that conservative Cuban slements,- cuch as the’
9 and professional commsunities, would uot bd much utilised ie the
@ plans. In Hamilton's view, the emphasis was on utilising Gobans

 

 
74-0000

a ~ yes ON .

Bt is apparent that Hamilton feels’ very deeply about the Bay of
dite aftermath, te he extent thst ee ant eotekcee wareer

mvritten on the Bay of Pigs, including Charles Marpk

September 1961 or the "insider" hocks. that were tomes following the the

manuscript particularly as it affects CIA secarity.. This analysis. atates
what the anthor states, whether right or wrong, “hese Thave ovensien

 

  

  
    

 

e Distribution ee wiatt,
Orighk 2 - D/Sesanity
~HIC ..:
‘tog t0119-10182

 

€
€

he
! ' bbe ule

 

16 February 1970

: Director of Security

: Comments on Manuscript Give Us This Day;
CIA and the Bay of Pigs Invasion by Edward J.

Hamilton

   

. This ‘manuscript has ‘evidently been kicking around in publishing
circles since at least mid-1968, presumably without CIA clearance.

William Buckley of the National Review seems to have been "shopping" it
at one point, One publisher rejected it as too “controversial”, and noted
its. "confidential": nature as well as its potential for bel suits,

  
   
  
 

2. In the foreword to this manuscript, the author (whom I shall
to. under his assumed name of Hamilton), describes the book as a
{per account" of CIA's role in the Bay of Pigs affair in which he was
‘esenfor- CIA participant for 19 months, He notes in the foreword his hops
that someone would have written this book so that he would not have to do
it; now convinced that, if he does not write it, it will never be written,
_he has taken up hie pen “weluctantly and in a mood of nostalgic bitterness.’
rilton. states that he has used no official files or documente and has -
ted mo one in preparing this work. Where true names are used in
mnanuscript for CIA personnel, he writes that they have been publicly
mtified before, and in this contention I believe that he is correct, with
sible exception ff The author's claim that this book
would provide no information not known to Castro's intelligence service,
or that details this late are of no value to the opposition,is, in my view,
seriously open to question.

  
  
 
  

3. The book is, in general,favorable to CIA actions in the Bay of
The villains of the piece are certain liberal figures in the Kennedy
nistration (Schlesinger, Goodwin, Stevenson) and to some extent, -
resident himself. In his concluding chapter, the author's bitterness
ig undisguised againet those in the Administration and the press who took
the opportunity of the Bay of Pigs incident to attack and denigrate CIA,

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 

4, Mesers.:. Biesell-and Barnes and the author's other CIA co-
workers in the Cuban Project, by and large, are given quite favorable
eatment. One exception is General Cabell, whom the author excoriates,
d it is apparent that Harnilton's opinion of Jerry Droller is far from

' RETURN TO Cia **
ry pesos Background Use Only
PES Gihy Do Not Reprodued Vp

 
gy ONLY SY

 

Hinvelved” inthe Bogotaso, setting the stage for Hamilton's subse- |
comment, “[Actaally Castro played a junior role'in the Bogoteso, and
that Mz, Dalles assigned Hamilton the toi,
emining Castre's-role in the Bogotaso, } (p. 7). Hamilton states that 4

  

Castro's. 26th of July Movement, there were no orders ‘from CIA Head~
sterate penstrate pro-Castro groups abroad (p."10), He then states ‘that:
‘Magch 1960 he was “having coffee with the aewly-elected president of the
to which Iwas assigned.” (p.10) [This could reveal the euthor's
hip with _|whe became President in

 

 

 

$5-At this point the manuscript introduces the Project Chief ap Jake |
sumably Mr.“ Esterline}], who is referred to as Jake throughout {p.. 12). -
alec mest Drolier about whom there is some “diversity in attitudes" -
among CIA officers. Droller's oparational name of Frank Bender is noted (p, 13),
‘and he is referred to as Bender throughout the rest of the masuscript. [This
- 4g not the first tims Droller has been identified as Bender; his name was Tage,
Slown by Arthur Schlesinger in his book A Thousand Days in 1965.] Bender's <-
"eover telephone arrangements in Miami and New York, which allowed him to
answer local calls there at his Washington desk, are disclosed {p.14).0 5
Slamilton states that Bender told him that as far as he knew “Richard Helms, - .
of ‘of Operations for the Clandestine Services, had act been cut in"-(p. 14). < »°. .

      

 
 
 
   

 

 
  

   
  
    

‘Chief

    

ae -crP
74-0000

Kaight was glen .
aremlinary tie

ae iertace snd is called Med Gn and verandah t 1, u
‘Florida tp.16).’ i Sitee te cles ndvioed of tua rele of Roberto
at all thie had the cenneat.af

 

 

 
