f ee _ CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL 9/30/98
2000

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING
CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS OF THE CIA UNDER THE JFK ACT

WHEREAS the operations of the Assassination Records Review Board (“Review
Board”) cease on September 30, 1998 in accordance with the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, as amended, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (“JFK Act”);

WHEREAS the JFK Act provides that “the provisions of this Act [other than those
pertaining to.the appointment and operation of the Review Board] shall continue in _
effect until such time as the Archivist certifies to the President and the Congress that all
assassination records have been made available to the public in accordance with [the]
Act” (JEK Act § 12); and

WHEREAS the Central Intelligence Agency (“CIA”), the Review Board, and the
National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”) seek to ensure that the CIA
completes its continuing obligations under the JFK Act in a timely fashion;

TT IS HEREBY AGREED by the CIA (including any successor intelligence agency), the
Review Board, and NARA that:

1. For purposes of this Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”), the JFK
Assassination Records Collection (“JEK Collection”) refers to the collection of
processed and declassified assassination records at NARA in College Park,
Maryland.. The “Protected Collection” at NARA refers to the collection of
assassination records that have been postponed for release under Section 6 of the

JEK Act.

2. Ail CIA records identified as assassination records under the JFK Act will be
placed in the JFK Collection at NARA by September 30, 1998 unless otherwise
noted in this MOU. In addition, the GIA may retain reference copies of any
records that it sends to the JFK Collection or the Protected Collection.

3. . The CIA will transmit the following assassination records to the JFK Collection .

after September 30, 1998:

a. Certain documents from the CIA-House Select Committee on
Assassinations (CIA-HSCA) Sequestered Collection (both hardcopy and
microfilm sets); most of which were voted on by the Board in September |
1998 and which must still be processed for transmission to the JFK .
Collection. The CIA will ensure that, by October 30, 1998, the balance of
non-duplicate documents from the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection
13-00000

-2-
(both hardcopy and microfilm sets) will be placed in the JFK Collection.

b. Duplicate documents within the CLA-HSCA Sequestered Collection
(both hardcopy and microfilm sets).’ The CIA will ensure that, by
September 30, 1999, duplicate copies of documents from the CLA-HSCA
Sequestered Collection (both hardcopy and microfilm sets) will be placed
in the JFK Collection.

c. Duplicate documents within the working files of former CIA officer
Russ Holmes. The CIA will ensure that, by December 31, 1998, duplicate
copies of documents from the Russ Holmes working files will be Placed i in’
the JFK Collection.

d. The audio tapes, and any transcriptions or summaries made by the
CIA, from surveillance of certain Soviet and Cuban diplomatic facilities in
Mexico City for the period November 22, 1963 to January 1964. These
tapes ( approximately 185), and any transcriptions or summaries, shall be
placed in the JFK Collection by September 30, 1999. The CIA will submit
these tapes to the JFK Collection on a rolling basis, as the CLA completes
review of individual tapes. Any postponements shall be identified to
NARA and postponed information forwarded to the Protected Collection
in accordance with Section 5(e)(2) of the JFK Act..

e. Working files from the DCl area, mostly from the DC1’s Executive ;
Registry, that had been compiled in anticipation of passage of the JFK Act.
These working materials, which consist mostly of duplicate documents,
will be placed in the JFK Collection by December 31, 1998.

f. A document containing a list of names and cryptonyms created by the
HSCA staff. Given the detailed nature of information in this document _
(RIF No. 104-10061-10115), the Board agrees that this can be processed by
December 31, 1998.

g. CIA’s records regarding the JFK Act, as follows: certain CIA records
reflecting; or relating to, its work under the JFK Act from the official
Historical Review Group (or Historical Review Program) files on the JFK
Act and from the working files of HRP’s JFK Act Project Chief, Barry
Harrelson; previously identified cables from the CIA to the field

' “Duplicate documents” are exact copies of documents that are already publicly
available in the JFK Collection as part of other CIA files or records.
13-00000

6-

postponement criteria of the JFK Act as previously interpreted by decisions of
the Review Board.

10. This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to clarify the CIA's obligations
under the JFK Act in view of the expiration of the Review Board's term on
September 30, 1998. This Memorandum of Understanding will not be
interpreted to limit the CIA’s obligations and rights under the JFK Act.

Date: ‘i x019 % sree 2c

Edmund Cohen
Director of Information Management
Central Intelligence Agency

Date: SeP 3 Signed:

Laura A. Denk
Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

Date:

 

Michael J. Kurtz

Assistant Archivist for Records Services,
Washington, D.C.

National Archives and Records Administration

of the United States ;
13-00000

5-

standards for audio-visual records, including those standards set forth in 36
C.F.R. Part 1232. By November 30, 1998, the CIA will provide to NARA, in
writing, a list of the hardcopy files being retained until 2017 and confirm the

- arrangements for securing this material. NARA will have the right to inspect

and inventory this material for archival and administrative purposes before
2017, and these materials shall be made available for inspection by NARA upon
its request.

The CIA will cooperate and coordinate with NARA in carrying out the
provisions of the JFK Act, including Section 5(g) of the JFK Act, which provides
for the “periodic review” of postponed assassination records. Such review “shall
address the public disclosure of additional assassination records in the

’ Collection under the standards of the Act” (§ 5(g)(2) (A)) and “shall serve to

downgrade and declassify security classified information” (§ 5(g)(2)(C)). As
provided by Section 5(g)(2)(B) of the Act, “all postponed assassination records
determined to require continued postponement shall require an unclassified
written description of the reason for such continued postponement, which shall
be provided to the Archivist and published in the Federal Register upon
determination.”

The CIA recognizes that, by October 26, 2017, “{e]ach assassination record shall
be publicly disclosed in full” unless the President makes the certifications

_described in section 5(g)(2)(D) of the Act. To the extent that records are

postponed but are to be released on a date prior to October 26, 2017, NARA will
release the records on'the date the Review Board set for release. If the CIA seeks
continued postponement of any record due to be released by October 26, 2017
(or on an earlier scheduled release date), it will be incumbent upon the CIA to
obtain from the President certification that continued postponement is necessary.
Within one to six months prior to the scheduled release date, the CIA will be
responsible for notifying NARA of any specific records, including records within
the microfilm reels for the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection, for which it will
seek Presidential certification of continued postponement.

With respect to the NBR material identified in paragraph 6 of the present MOU,
these NBR materials will be physically transferred to NARA by October 26, 2017
for release. In the event the CIA seeks further postponement of any NBR
material, it will identify that material to NARA and seek Presidential
certification that the material needs to be postponed.

With respect to the review of other agency documents:referred to the CIA, the
review of any new assassination records, or the periodic review of postponed
assassination records, the-CIA will, in good faith, continue to apply the
13-00000

-3-

regarding requests under the JFK Act; and the completed certifications of
compliance executed by each of the directorates and the DCI office. These

records will be transmitted to the JFK Collection by September 30, 1999.
Microfilmed copies of any postponed documents will be provided to the
Protected Collection by September 30, 1999.

h. Any other non-duplicate assassination-related records created or
discovered by the CIA after September 30, 1998. If any information
contained in such records is deemed to require postponement under the
terms of the JFK Act, then it will be placed in the Protected Collection.

The CIA will review its equities in records that have been referred to it, and the
CIA will cooperate with NARA and other Federal agencies to ensure that such
records are released under the standards of the JFK Act and placed into the JFK
Collection, or are postponed in accordance with the Act and placed in the
Protected Collection. The CIA will review the following major categories of
records: Se

a. Church Committee records identified by the Review Board in August
1998 as being assassination-related.

b. Records from the files of Robert F. Kennedy, maintained at the JFK
Library, identified by the Library and/or Review Board as either
assassination records or as records that would enhance the historical

- understanding of the assassination.

c. Records of the Rockefeller Commission, maintained by the Manuscript
Division at the Library of Congress, to the extent that the Library of
Congress identifies assassination records that are not available as part of
the Ford Library set of Rockefeller Commission documents in the JFK
Collection.

d, The Army’s Investigative Records Repository file on Alfredo Mirabal
Diaz. :

The CIA will complete its review and recommendations for release of the major
record categories listed above no later than April 30, 1999. To the extent there
may be other agency documents requiring CIA review under the JFK Act, the
CIA will continue to undertake such review. :

The CIA will transmit to the Protected Collection, in accordance with Section
5(e)(2) of the JFK Act, the following original or postponed records by the dates
13-00000

indicated: -

a. by September 30, 1998, the originals of all postponed records from Lee
Harvey Oswald's 201 file, Office of Security file, and “A” file;

b. by September 30, 1998, the hardcopy original of Marina Oswald’s 201
file;

c. by September 30, 1998, all original microfilm reels for the CLIA-HSCA
Sequestered Collection (The CIA and NARA will work out mutually
agreeable arrangements for the secure storage-of this microfilm at NARA,
including provisions for holding this material in a safe with limited
access. The CIA will retain the paper copies.);

d. by October 30, 1998, all other records with postponed information to
the extent not otherwise specifically addressed in this MOU (The CIA will
have the option to provide postponed information in microfilm form and
to have the same security arrangements apply as in paragraph 5.c. for the
CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection microfilm reels.);

e. by October 30, 1998, the entire Oswald 201 file as printed from the
CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection microfilm; and

£. by December 31, 1998, the originals of all postponed records from the
Russ Holmes working files. ;

6. The Review Board and the CIA have determined that certain materials reviewed
under the JFK Act are not believed to be relevant to the Kennedy assassination
(designated “NBR”), but nonetheless should ultimately be placed in the JFK

- Collection. These NBR materials are: certain files contained within the CIA-
HSCA Sequestered Collection; certain CIA work files relating to Yuri Nosenko
(but not related to the assassination); certain materials within the Russ Holmes
Collection; and the complete version of certain records, portions of which were
designated as assassination-related by the Review Board in connection with its
requests for additional records and information. These hard copy materials will
be physically retained by the CIA and then forwarded to the JFK Collection for
public release by October 26, 2017. The CIA will ensure the appropriate
preservation of the Nosenko audio tapes in accordance with applicable NARA

2 The Nosenko materials related to the assassination have been placed in the JFK
Collection.
 

AIUO

January - April 1999
Review Referrals no later than 30 April 1999 (4 of MOU):

* Church Committee Records identified by ARRB -- ~ 1,000 pages.
e Robert Kennedy records from JFK Pres. Library --.~1,500 pages.
°® Rockefeller Commission records at Library of Congress ~- TBD
e Misc. referrals--army, Treas., Sec. Ser., etc. -- ~ 750 pages.

e FBI Referrals -- TBD (FBI is still reviewing its HSCA
sequestered material.)

We will not begin review of referrals until the completion of the
Russ Holmes files.. Referrals which can not be completed by 30
April will be addressed after the completion of the duplicate
review of the sequestered collection.

January - September 1999
To NARA by 30 September 1999:

e The Sequestered Collection Duplicates (3b of MOU). The .
request from the JFK Board not to send duplicates for Board
action camé after the review of the Oswald 201 and about 20-

_ 25% of the hardcopy sequestered material. had been reviewed.
This, plus the inexact nature of the JFK data base, means that
many duplicates have been acted on by the Board. Many of these
duplicates will have to be reconciled with current JFK
standards. We will not know the amount of “duplicate .
material” to be processed until the completion of the. “release
in full’ project and indexing of the microfilm (30 October) .

oF

e DO review of 168 audio tapes from Mexico City (3d of MOU).
Tapes and any transcriptions or summaries to be prepared on a
rolling bases. (Postponed information to the Protected
collection)

e IA _regardin moi i . (3g of MOU).
Select, review, declassify, index and copy documents in the
HRP files, previously identified cables, and the directorate
certifications. Pages TBD. (Postponed information to the
Protected Collection).

AIUO
 

 

15 October 1998

 

HRP Actions During FY 1999 Required under the MOU Regarding
Continuing Obligations under the JFK ACT.

October 1998

To NARA by 30 October (3a of MOU):

Late ARRB Determinations from Sequestered Collection -
Approximately 2,000 documents (~8,000 to 10,000 pages). Each
document requires redaction, copying, quality check, entering
of codes, marking out of classification, stamping, updating of
database, sending to DO, retrieving from DO, making of 3
copies and packaging. This is on track and should by
completed prior to 30 October.

 

 

Sequestered Collection. An estimated 10, 000. documents
“(~35,000 pages). These are previously identified and marked
documents which must. be retrieved, indexed, declassified and
stamped, copied and packaged. This is behind schedule and.
will require continued use of overtimers.

October-December _ 1998

 

To NARA by 31 December 1998:

Russ Holmes’ Working files (3c of MOU)- 19 Record Center
boxes; approximately 30,000 pages. Much in the Holmes files
is duplicative of material early in the JFK project and, based
upon changed standards by the Board, all of the documents must
be reviewed to assure comparability with later Board .
Determinations. This will bg initiated after the earlier (30
October) tasks are completed. (Postponed information to the
Protected Collection) .

DEI area working files (3e of MOU) - ~3,000 pages. Mostly
duplicates. Must be processed in way similar to Russ Holmes
working files. This will be initiated after the earlier (30
October) tasks are completed.

Document #.104-10061-10115 (3f£ of MOU) Contains extensive list
of names and cryptonyms created by HSCA staff; A time -
consuming document with many deletions. This will be’
initiated after the edrlier (30 October) tasks are completed.

AIUO
13-00000

 

qs /98

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING
CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS OF THE CIA UNDER THE JFK ACT

WHEREAS the operations of the Assassination Records Review Board (“Review
Board”) cease on September 30, 1998 in accordance with the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, as amended, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (“JFK Act”);

WHEREAS the JFK Act provides that “the provisions of this Act [other than those
pertaining to the appointment and operation of the Review Board] shall continue in
effect until such time as the Archivist certifies to the President and the Congress that all
assassination records have been made available to the public in accordance with [the]
Act” (JFK Act § 12); and

WHEREAS the Central Intelligence Agency (“CIA”), the Review Board, and the
National Archives and Records Administration (“NARA”) seek to ensure that the CIA
completes its continuing obligations under the JFK Act in a timely fashion;

IT IS HEREBY AGREED by the CIA (including any successor intelligence agency), the
Review Board, and NARA that:

1. For purposes.of this Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”), the JFK
Assassination Records Collection (“JFK Collection”) refers to the collection of
processed and declassified assassination records at NARA in College Park,
Maryland. The “Protected Collection” at NARA refers to the collection of
assassination records that have.been postponed for release under Section 6 of the
JFK Act.

2. All CIA records identified as assassination records under the JFK Act will be
placed in the JFK Collection at NARA by September 30, 1998 unless otherwise
noted in this MOU. In addition, the CIA may retain reference copies of any
records that it sends to the JFK Collection or the Protected Collection.

3. The CIA will transmit the following assassination records to the JFK Collection
after September 30, 1998:

a. Certain documents from the CIA-House Select Committee on
Assassinations (CLA-HSCA) Sequestered Collection (both hardcopy and
microfilm sets), most of which were voted on by the Board in September
1998 and which must still be processed for transmission to the JFK
Collection. The CIA will ensure that, by October 30, 1998, the balance of
non-duplicate documents from the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection
13-00000

-2-
(both hardcopy and microfilm sets) will be placed in the JFK Collection.

b. Duplicate documents within the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection
(both hardcopy and microfilm sets).' The CLA will ensure that, by
September 30, 1999, duplicate copies of documents from the CIA-HSCA
Sequestered Collection (both hardcopy and microfilm sets) will be placed
in the JFK Collection.

c. Duplicate documents within the working files of former CIA officer
Russ Holmes. The CIA will ensure that, by December 31, 1998, duplicate
copies of documents from the Russ Holmes working files will be placed in
the JFK Collection.

d. The audio tapes, and any transcriptions or summaries made by the

‘CIA, from surveillance of certain Soviet and Cuban diplomatic facilities in

Mexico City for the period November 22, 1963 to January 1964. These
tapes ( approximately 185), and any transcriptions or summaries, shall be
placed in the JFK Collection by September 30, 1999.. Fhe CIA will submit
these tapes to the JFK Collection on a rolling basis, as the CIA comipletes
review of individual tapes. Any postponements shall be identified to
NARA and postponed information forwarded to the Protected Collection

' + in accordance with Section 5(e)(2) of the JFK Act.

e. Working files from the DCI area, mostly from the DCI’s Executive
Registry, that had been compiled in anticipation of passage of the JFK Act.
These working materials, which consist mostly of duplicate documents,
will be placed in the JFK Collection by December 31, 1998.

f. A document containing a list of names and cryptonyms created by the
HSCA staff. Given the detailed nature of information in this document
(RIF No. 104-10061-10115), the Board agrees that this can be processed by
December 31, 1998.

g.. CIA’s records regarding the JFK Act, as follows: certain CIA records
reflecting, or relating to, its work under the JFK Act from the official

‘Historical Review Group (or Historical Review Program) files on the JFK

Act and from the working files of HRP’s JFK Act Project Chief, Barry
Harrelson; previously identified cables from the CIA to the field

1 “Duplicate documents” are exact copies of documents that are already publicly
available in the JFK Collection as part.of other CIA files or records.
