_- ls _ SECRET
from that dismissal "will be deemed frivolous and not taken in
good faith." The plaintiff had alleged, without’ stating a
basis for the cause of action, that the CIA had participated in
an unspecified manner in the implantation of a monitoring
device in his brain. Judge Rambo previously ordered the
plaintiff to either file a more definite complaint or face
dismissal. The order dismissing the complaint noted that “if
plaintiff truly believes he has some foreign object placed in

his head, reventing him from having it removed
himself." of Litigation Division was the attorney
handling is case. .

New Litigations

Beverley Burke Bomstein v. CIA. This administrative claim
brought pursuant to the Federal Tort Claims Act seeks one
million dollars in compensation for injuries allegedly suffered
by Mrs. Bomstein during three admissions to the Allan Memorial
Institute, a psychiatric hospital located in Montreal, between
1958 and 1960. Mrs. Bomstein alleges. that she was subjected to
*unethical and inhuman experimental treatments" from Dr. Ewen
Cameron and others as part of the "mind-control experiments”
financed by the CIA. Mrs. Bomstein relies upon the recent
settlement of the Orlikow, et al.. v. United States litigation
as the basis for her claim that the CIA is liable for her
injuries. Mrs. Bomstein claims that she was subjected to the
same treatment and suffered the same injuries as the nine
plaintiffs in Orlikow but that she was unable to take legal
action earlier because the treatments caused amnesia and memory
lapses. of the Litigation Division is handling
this ca ;

 

SECRET
3

‘
. . SECRET

(another named defendant) was also in agreement with this
posture. DOJ agreed to convey our response to the plaintiffs
and will simultaneously file a Motion to Remand the other two
secrecy agreement cases (NFFE and AFGE)---currently stayed at
the Court of Appeals---back to the District Court for
consideration with the AFSA case in light of the Supreme
Court's action. The strategy to this move is to have the
District Court reconsider all three and thereby, send to the

Court of-Snneals _at_a later date, more narrowly focused
issues. of the Litigation Division is handling
these ca ;

 

SECRET
2
104-10427-10052

 

. . s E CRET

" ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGED MATERIAL

.16 dune 1989

ITEMS OF MAJOR INTEREST -- 9 - 16 June 1989

On 10 May 1989 in the FOIA case Knight v, U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in a
published opinion affirmed the district court's award of
summary judgment for the Agency in declaring that the CIA need
not disclose to the plaintiff certain records he had requested
regarding the sinking of the Green-peace ship, the "Rainbow
Warrior.” As a result of the Court of Appeals opinion, which
states that courts should not second-guess determination of the
DCI in FOIA matters involving the national security, the
plaintiff has petitioned the Court of Appeals to rehear his

ior to his rotation to the Iran-Contra Task Force,

of OGC's vision handled this case.

departure] bso of OGC's Litigation
Division is working w ~ Attorney's Office in
responding to this most recent development.

 

Secrecy Agreement Litigation. While awaiting docketing of
the AFSA case in the District Court (which is on remand from
the Supreme Court), we received an offer to enter into
negotiations for possible settlement of all three cases which
take issue with the Executive Branch's standard nondisclosure
agreements. The institutional and congressional plaintiffs
offered to dismiss their remaining claims if the Executive
Branch parties would: (1) provide personal notice to former
employees to inform them that the term “classifiable” has been
deléted from the SF 189 and the F 4193; (2) define employees’
obligations under the nondisclosure agreements with respect to
information that is not marked "classified"; (3) clarify the
language of the prepublication review clause (paragraph 4 of
Forms 4193 and 4355); and (4) agree that employees should be
obligated not to disclose information only during a thirty day .
review period following the employees submission of the
material to the Agency for prepublication review. (U)

we

After reviewing the settlement offer and concluding that
many of plaintiffs‘ issues for negotiation were not raised in
the original lawsuit, we advised DOJ that the only issue we
would be interested in discussing prior to returning to Judge
Gasch's courtroom would be the possibility of giving former
employees constructive (vice personal) notice of the deletion
o£ the term classifiable. Director of ISOO, Steve Garfinkel

CL BY_2100049

DECL__QADR
DRV__Multiple

SECRET
13-00000

woof oe SECRET
ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGED MATERIAL

9 June 1989

'

ITEMS OF MAJOR INTEREST -~ 2 - 9 June 1989

Erigard v. United States, 862 F. 2d 201 (sth Cir. 1988)
Cert. denied, ___U.S. ___ (1989). As described in previous
items, this suit was brought by former investors in convicted
swindler Ronald Rewald's investment firm. The plaintiffs
alleged that CIA negligently allowed Rewald to defraud them,
and thus the United States should be liable for the lost
investment under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). The case
was dismissed by the district court and the dismissal was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On
5 June 1989, the Supreme Court denied the plaintiff's petition
for a writ of certiorari, thus ending the case favorably for
CIA. With this final appellate step in the Frigard case, the
likelihood of any further cases being successfully broug

e FTCA by disgruntled Rewald investors is small.

formerly of the Litigation Division, has acted o

to the Department of Justice on all of the
Rewald-related cases. (U)

 

 

Fitzgibbon FOIA Litigation. Decisions recently were issued
in two cases challenging the extent of the DCI's authority to
protect sources and methods. Plaintiff sought documents “
relating to the disappearance of a critic of the Trujillo
regime in the Dominican Republic, and in earlier rulings Judge
Harold Greene ordered the release of various CIA documents, or
portions. CIA appealed, but the cases were stayed to await the
outcome of a ruling by the Supreme Court in CIA v. Sims.
Following Sims the Fitzgibbon cases were remanded for
reconsideration in light of the decision recognizing the broad
authority provided in the National Security Act to protect
sources and methods. (U) :

ome

SECRET
13-00000

 

 

a ' SECRET

The recent rulings in part uphold CIA's position. The
court reversed its earlier ruling that CIA release material
where its sources were dead, where confidentiality was not
needed at the time the information was obtained from the source
or where the information was innocuous or outdated. The court
also upheld CIA's ability to protect information concerning
potential and unwitting sources. However, the court was not
convinced that contacts with domestic officials were entitled
to protection in furtherance of CIA's mandate to collect
foreign intelligence. The court also ordered the disclosure of
information related to a CIA station where the information
previously had been released by the U.S. Senate. The court's
ruling on these two points is in direct conflict with other
rules in the D.C. Circuit, and we expect to appeal.

hief, Litigation Division, is the attorne

+ (8)

Domingo v. Marcos. In this case against the Philippine
Government, plaintiffs have sought discovery from the U.S. to
prove allegations that former President Marcos sent agents into
the U.S. to suppress political opposition. Recently, District
Judge Rothstein held an in camera, ex parte session in Seattle
to question CIA about the rationale “behind the DCI's formal
claim of the state secrets privi i
files. As former C/EA Division
CIA and was accompanied b
Division/OGC). explained why the disclosure of
CIA's records nd, thereby, harm source
relationships, methods of collection, and foreign relations
interests. The Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs

i letter for the Judge's review to support

estimony about the impact of disclosures on

  
   
 

 

(C/Litigation

 

 

 

U.S.-Philippine relations. (S)

Judge Rothstein concluded that many of CIA's documents need
not be disclosed, but seeks to try to “balance” the interests
of plaintiffs in obtaining the documents against the United
States need to protect them. State, FBI, and DOD documents
also are at issue, and the Government position is that its
sensitive materials -- which do not prove plaintiffs' case --
should be protected despite plaintiffs' alleged need. In other
words, a valid claim of privilege is absolute. Phyllis McNeil
of the Litigation Division is the attorney handling this case.

(U)
-Dell_v. CIA, Civil No. 89-0161 (D.C. for the Middle

_ District of Pennsylvania). On 30 May 1989, Judge Rambo

dismissed this complaint against the Agency for failure to
state a cause of action, and certified that any appeal taken

SECRET

2
