SECRET

Mary ask for more information on LIRING.

“PRIVATE LINE TAP” - According the Marwell, the Board
considered. the. issue of the “private lines” but. since the
paragraph dealt with Oswald, voted to release. Mary said is
was hard to defend the individual released since she did not
have any information on the person.

We pointed out that the this release impacted on other
documents which dealt with private line taps plus the Board
had not limited its release to the paragraph that mentioned
Oswald but released the name in other calls which had
nothing to do with Oswald.

Marwell said the Board may re-look at the document as part
of looking at similar documents.

The issue of the taps on other Bloc embassies came up. Mary
said the Board was inclined to release given the end of the
Cold War. .

{Note: we will locate as many of the “private line tap”
documents we can for special review]

Issue: Removing the Proenza and Private line tap
documents form the formal notification list

Marwell clearly prefers not to do it at this time (said they
would discuss). Has no problem with asking the Board to
reconsider or giving us the opportunity to presence
additional evidence since their next meeting was within the
30 days set by the law, but felt that the Board was not
inclined to keep tabling documents that they had reached a
decision on. i
Maxwell asked if “the Agency plans to “appeal”; he would like
a heads

Later, in private, Marwell said that he wanted to build into
the process a loop bnat would handle these types of

Situations 2

 

Issue: Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting

It was agreed that “STATIONS” would be the focus of the
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour.

Marwell. recommended providing evidence of bilateral
agreements as well as identifying current harm. Said that
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations.

Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico
City station window. There are documents from the 50s,
. '

SECRET
104-10330-10020

 

SECRET

September 11, 1995
WORKING PAPER

Notes from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995

ARRB Attendees: Maxwell, Gunn, Mary + one
CIA Attendees : Barry, Billie

Issue: Inconsistency between Mexico City Chrono item
#132 and ARRB document #31

Gunn proposed that the Agency release the information in
document: 31 that was released by mistake in the Mexico City
Chrono. Otherwise, the staff would have to take the
document back to the ARRB for reconsideration which they
felt would undercut the credibility of the CIA and the
staff. The Board will not uphold a postponement ina
specific document if that information is released by mistake
in another copy of the same document.

response - because the information deals with Mex.
she will have to take their proposal to a higher
evel. [response needed by 16 September]

They also requested a “new” highlighted version of the
Mexico City Chrono which reflects all information released
to NARA in the multiple copies of the Chrono and in the
documents referenced in the Chrono.

Issue: The three documents of concern.

 

 

 

SEBSON..- Ellie reviewed the Gibson issues-{the fac Ehat he?
etc.
noted ‘that since the document would not be included in the

determination list would the Board be willing to reconsider.

Marwell said that we could make an addition pitch to the
Board’ to reconsider, but he did not think it would have any

effect on their decision. |

PROENZA - Ellie explained that out goal here was to protect
the “asset” not the method and that the deletions could be
reduced to those words that could result in the
identification of the agent.

a .
Marwell said that the Board may reconsider based on the need
to protect a source.

Mary ask who was the asset? Was it LIRING?
Ellie said she did not know (it could have been some “AM”

source. 1

SECRET
SECRET

references in. summaries to the founding of the station and,
most important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City.

Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of
stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key
issue for the Agency: and a senior Directorate/Agency
decision. She indicated that the DO would oppose expanding

_ the Mexico City window | into the 70s.)

As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had
already agreed to the release of those documents.

Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presentation would be a
good opportunity to address the Private Line and other Tel
Taps issue rather than requesting a separate meeting.

After the meeting Marwell elaborated on the presentation.
He said to try a avoid going over old ground (US-Mexico
relationship; when possible provide specific/hard evidence
(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories did not go
over well and neither did Bill McNair. He emphasized the
importance of using the language of the law.

Ae

SECRET
