104-10073-10144

 

 

 

 

 

eae - C
COUNTRY Cuba L RESORT NO, 6h 73, HE 09S
SUBJECT «Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo “ DATE Diste.
. . NOPAGES 1
re C_erpnences 0-303 BR.
ee
Efe tovonn to 23 Deo 62 aa so" say (St Lo a  #ie.

   

SOURCE: Cuban national, A 13 322 oT: 25 years ela, Zonier ‘Captain in Patista's

: Army. Source was arrested three times for anti-Castro activities.
Ne was chief of anti-Castro group composed .of former military people. ;
He was arrested last time on 7 Aug 59 and served time in isle fe Pinos - My
until he was ransomed on 24 Dec 62 along with. his brother no

 
   

{fhis report wes developed by an Air Force: representative sostonea to. oo
office of collection.J = aan

 

1. Before I was arrested I seni many peéple who were working with me in ;
order to overthrow the/Castro Communist goverment. ' Many of us took
Bloy ‘Gutierrez Menoyo"as a sincere individual who vanted to overthrow
the Castro covernment.. Gutierrez knew me well and I told him where ve

: were going to meet the time we were captured by Ge2. He was the only

. person that knew we were going to be there besides the people that were .

: ~ captured with me. Iater on I was told by many of: ny friends that

Gutierrez had informed on us. To my to mows he ‘also. informed on we
\ other people that were captured and are now dn

  

2. Gince-I have arrived hore I am. told: that he is. very ‘active in anti ,
Castro croups. I sincerely believe that this man is a Castro agent in
\ ‘ disuuise. He pretends to be anti-Castro but I strongly believe that he
\ actually 1s working for the Castro government. ‘I am so sure of this
thet I an willing to testify against Gutierrez in any court of law.
This man should be thoroughly investigated because I have no doubt in.
my mind that he ide an undercover Castro agent. . :

   

 

   

Om

CaO-NaPaI-D-E-NafoInAeb

    

INTROLLED » NO DISSE. ABROAD -
DISSE; The dinsomination of this decumont, A lunited to-civilian emp:

nes and
. he must aot.
Vel -moomber ageneien, ond ite ea er oft ae of the suamber ret ae wi 2 Tae
om is the redacten of wade, Ie aNALL HOT BE Diane fo-
one s: diog eoseulona ‘wader @ contractual re) ip to the 8. Gov
woe paren .

 
   

 

   
 
 

an

 

Background Use | Only
Do Not Raprodurs

 

 
