 

 

 

 

  

 

 

“6 “Fhvonghous hia atalt lita, George Ds MONRENSCHIEDT |

: ae une Tames Ma ae in, including such variants as —
| Jerry da MOWURENSCEHY DT; Jerzy ven MOHRENSCHILDT; arse a
‘Vou MOBRENSCHILD; and George Sargius de MOSRENSCHILD.: :

in like maener be alee seeuss to have varied hie farmer athe

|. Qvigin froma Russian, te Polish, Swedish, Danish, and German...

Theve appear te be two versions of his mother's mabies somes 6

Mamie LAPOARET snd Alsspire ZAPOLESL

 

a a PSE Special agent, [7 -_ > gama te” oo -

— : GLA sm 15 Marah nbs norris ls ABER AS ton
De MORRENSCHILD Ta.

s. “a7 anes 196 hg Pat scab to this Agency 2 _

 

, _ ren dns yore ~ _ irs a

 

a cei a aes memes rt a nl cere

Se You say also wish t@ make inquivivs at the Offices of
Haval Intelligence; the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence.
Department of the Army; the Department of States and the Civ
Service Commission beeause thasa dapartments also bave infos
mation about George i De MCHSENSCHILDT. ; :

 

Distribution: - re uy Teer
27 Este
Orig. &i- Addressee meet sai)
Richard Helms
Deputy Director for Viana

 

  

viene pm scene repecimene apeinemeet noe ae wa
 

- peting chief, ¢ Contact Division (Direct)
ATTH 2 Support.
: Dallas Resident Agency

         
  

MICROFILM ED

APR 1969

SER.

ew. Cane 49259.

    

oe > | poc. MICRO,
REF z Headquarters Yemo 20 Apr 68 - - .
af pana

© Details oS J. Helter Moors 's cerntact with Geet =

      
 

 

she have known-George do Mokrensebildt’ and hie wife since 1957.
My latest actial. contact with then was in the fall of 198k, although E . ~
received a Christaas card from them during Christmas of 1963. The card

nailed fros Port-au-Prince and a copy of wy acknowledgement is attached. wo!
. ; a dazenysll, Tatas Pe 25% ssinessm nn
L Be. After oar late ths aueassinatieee eker 3s :
mo Yea of November 1963, I received a telephone call frea(Dr.) Pel L
; chertz, Director of the Socony Hobil Research Laboratory at. Duncanville,
Texas. Or. Reicherts advised that_members of his staff had attended some —
. . . . | Kind of social op discussion group in January 1963 at which Lee Varvey
—— ; Oawaid was. present, Ho zention was sade at this tine of George de Mehren- . _
| oS schildt. I told Dr. Reichertz he should report this information to the mn,
lecal of fice of the PBI and he replied thet he knew no one in the Ballas —
office of the FBI and asked if I would pass the infermation-eleng for him. .
XY ealled the FBI and they said they would send somebody out to talk to

  

 
     

Dre Relic - I made no effort te follow up on the satter with Paul
Reic t it was, of sy business but during a visit .
wit rer LE Lan jat* Mobil Research Lab and a
[ze Cc of wine for many. yearsal, she advised that she had heard that
e Hohrenschiidt had befriended Gswald after his arrival fa balis® nd
pad Antroseced hin to a study greup on the USSR. crt- USA <9 Hbrartan] :
Cae , com cow a exas US :

 

y init contact with de Mohrenschildt wes the reault of
— . @ source lead from headquarters, dated 22-New 57, advieing that George “nae
de Hohrenschildt had recently returned to Dallas after spending apprexi~
mately a year in Yugoslavia on a job for the ICA. I called on de Mohrer~ .
schildt in early December 1957 and submitted a name check, dated 6 Dec 57. | .
t x chs time, de Hohrens®hildt gave me a copy of standard. personal history ..
which | n gives considerable biographic data, which I an enclosing. :

RE
_ nFsuarp (a61- 239249)
eeoucl- henel kmewlectae F, Dr. Pa Bel HERTZ
beth of Scceny Mobil on : Subj oF

SSE ran nny 6 SO

 
   
 
 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

holiday period tollowing te, aeanesination, - ;

asaassination,- ouy representative in Dallas received a tele= |
” Phone cull fram ons af his coutuets who told him that several

oo. the FB, and drem of por own sources, that Ge George se. :
ee - Mosintesem sor ioes nse Seat ot the mactiog snd Bad intros
i Setes SEV ALD to the Broa’, om Joss

 

 

informal, oteasianal contack with the. De MCBRENSCHILDTs.
mitil the autumn of 1961. He has slot seen them ‘since that tee,
although he reesived a Christmas card from them aera see

3. On the 2384 ov 24s of November 1963, ‘after the)

 

FT TS Bad attended a sacial or a diseusalon -
group in January 1563 snd that Lae Harvey OSWALD had sla0—

. boon there. Oe *Preoentativs isemmediately arranged for the

FRI ta contact the sounce .{ It was Later agez.

   

a. "ne GUA headquarters the nanotintion betewei the” ao

De MCHRENSCHILDTs and the OSWALDa wes noted for the a
mA firat tine in December 1363 when it was reposted fons Haltt —. a
- that the De MOCHASNSCHILDTs hod appeared a3 the Embassy | .

and voluntecred infermation about thely relationship with tur.
CSWALDs. At sbont the same time the details of thalr aszo~ |.

clatles began te appear ln reports made by other U.S. Govern- — _ “

ment agentics aegaged is inveutigating se assassination, -

Be During the contact with George De MOHRENSCHILDT. oo
, late in 1957 vod coat 3358, his background was tavestigated. . .

semeivin® Prodesed s considesstle amount of infosration about -

Bim ami bis xettvitioe, including allegations that during World: . :

War Il he had engaged in espionage activities ca bebalf ofthe
Nauia; that he was a member of the Communist Party} and that
after the war he was symvathetic toward Communizm asd the
U.8.S.2. The investigation wae extunded to Belgium where
Georges De MOHRENSCHILDT claixced ta have lived from 1930 .
watil 1933, His edventional beckgroond and his; work aa a
Journalist were ) sontirmed S these-| - eres
   

TAB B

 

President's Commission oa the

‘Sei Pw me
we Le Repent on oe
supyect Coren set Ili ¢ MERCADO,
ee eve fe WaAhen Commnissaay

 

: : 3 ‘teroes te made ts pgp moments of Mera
1964 requesting any information oa Georges and Jeanne Da .
MOMBENSCHILDT that ls available in Cla files. Our reviesr.
., shows that the files ceatsin reports secelved cam cthes U.S. |;
: ,” Gavarnmens agencies, primarily tha FBL. a6 well as sosaw ine
~ formatien developed by this Agancy in 1957 and 1953. The ot
|. Seview alse predueed refersaces to information in the recerda |
oF the wiinator of Information and the Oifice of Strategic ci
: _ Ancording te the records of those agencies, George ;
‘ De MOBRENSCHILDT had been considered for employment in —
” 1942, bot waa net hived because be waa alleged te be a Nazi
_. *aplonage agent. No information developed by CIA ler ita
_ predeeessurs) defers the assazvination of Prasident Keoedy
So ees Ey ee nope MOHRENSGHILDTs
: end Lee Harvey OSYALD or biz family.

 

 

 

2. CU's initial inbereat in George Be MOHRENSGUIEDT
daveloped a3 a reselt of his sojourn in Yugoslavia in 2957 on
: behald of the International Cooperation Ageazy (ICA). fn that

. connection CLA headquarters sent a routine advisery to its
Dallas reprasentativa whe called oa the De MCHRENSCHEDTs
in the early part of December 1957, In the course of several -
meetings the CLA representative obtained foreign intelligence

‘which was gramoptly disseminated to other federal ugencias in
tem Separate repucts. Tha Dallas representative continues

 

| 1
Document sent tnd - 18-59.

for. FOIA Review on.

a. ARS : le

   
     

were not clandestine nor did such contacts involve the
clandestine procurement of secret foreign intelligence. °
So far as the Agency knows, de Mohrenschildt: provided in-

. formation in response to Moore's request as a patriotic
gesture, ‘without thought. of monetary gain.

pussaar & Holmes oy

 

cc: IG. ;
SA/DO/0 -

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

. :
or rs vote
,

 

before the assassination of President Kennedy had
established any link between de Mohrenschildt and 4
Lee Harvey Oswald and his family. :

"2, CIA's initial interest in George de.
Mohrenschildt developed as a result of his sojourn
in Yugoslavia in 1957 on behalf of the International
‘Cooperation Agency (ICA). In that connection CIA
headquarters sent a routine advisory to its Dallas
representative who called on the de Mohrenschildt's
in the early part of December 1957. In the course
of. several meetings the CIA representative obtained
foreign intelligence which was promptly disseminated
to other federal agencies in ten separate reports.
The Dallas representative continued informal, occasional
contact with the de Mohrenschildt's until the autumn:
of 1961. He has not seen them since that time, although
_he received a Christmas card from them ‘during the holiday ~
period following the assassination. : re

"3. On the 23rd or 24th of November 1963, after
the assassination, our representative in Dallas re-
ceived a telephone call from one of his contacts who

told him that several members of his firm had attended
a social or a discussion group in January 1963 and that
Lee Harvey Oswald had also been there. Our repre-
sentative immediately arranged for the FBI. to contact
the executive. It was later ascertained from the FBI, .
and from one of our sources, that George de Mohrenschildt -
was present at the meeting and had introduced Oswald to

the group. . . .

"4, At CIA headquarters the association between the
de Mohrenschildt'’s and the Oswald's was noted for the
first time in December 1963 when it was reported from
‘Haiti that the de Mohrenschildt's had appeared at the
Embassy and volunteered information about their rela-
tionship with the Oswald's. At about the same time the
details of their association began to appear in reports
made by other U.S. Government agencies engaged in in-
vestigating the assassination. . an

"5, During the contact with George de Mohrenschildt
late in 1957 and 1958, his background was investigated.
Inquiries produced a considerable amount of information
about him and his activities, including allegations
that during World War II he had engaged in espionage
activities on behalf of the Nazis; that he was a member
 

[ioetoroatog} A

pon I.
t ‘. e me,
a

 

7 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

 

SUBJECT : Comments on George de Mohrenschildt
: "Reputed Former CIA Agent" ~—-

 
 
    
  

REFERENCE: Memo for the Record, dated 4 April 1977

1. In a UPI article (see Tab A) published in the ~
Washington Star of 4 April 1977, George de Mohrenschiidt
is referred to as a “reputed former CIA agent." This...‘
remark is a misinterpretation of the facts by the write
of the article. A review of the de Mohrenschildt file...
reveals that.de Mohrenschildt had provided information,.in
December 1957, to a CIA representative in Dallas, Texas, in
response to the latter's request, on his trip to Yugoslavia ©
in 1957. on behalf of the International Cooperation Agency
(ICA). This action does not make de Mohrenschildt a "CIA
agent," rather, it makes him an unpaid informant. .

 

os _ The circumstances pertaining to CIA's interest in .
ee. de Mohrenschildt's knowledge of conditions in Yugoslavia
i are set forth in the following paragraphs. ce

2. On 3 June 1964, the Agency forwarded to J. Lee
Rankin, General Counsel, President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy, the following informa-
tion on George de Mohrenschildt.

"1, Reference is made to your memorandum of
31 March 1964 requesting any information on George
and Jeanne de Mohrenschildt that is available to
CIA files. Our review shows. that the files contain
reports received from other U.S. Government agencies,
primarily the FBI, as. well as some information de-
_veloped by this Agency in 1957 and 1958. The review
also produced references to information and the Office
of Strategic Services. According to the records of
_those agencies, George de Mohrenschildt had been con-
sidered for employment in 1942, but was not hired
because he was alleged to be a Nazi espionage agent.
No information developed by CIA or its predecessors

 

   

eats

‘ pons

_\ RETURNTO CIA 27" DOERS
__ Background Use Only “>

Do Not Reproduce
 

 

 

oO 0

of the Communist Party; and that after the war he
was sympathetic toward Communism and the U.S.S.R.
The investigation was extended to Belgium where.
George de Mohrenschildt claimed to have lived from
1930 until 1938. His educational background and his
work as a journalist were confirmed there. One record
of arrest came to light: on 4 November 1931 he was
sentenced by the Tribunal Correctionnel at Antwerp to
eight days in prison on charges of resisting a police
officer and to eight days imprisonment or a fine of
132 francs on charges of drunkenness and use of a false
name. ‘Sentence was suspended pening completion of a

three-year probationary period.

"6. Throughout his adult life, George de
Mohrenschildt has used variations of his basic name,
- including such variants as Jerry de Mohrenschildt;
‘Jerzey von Mohrenschildt; George von Mohrenschild;: ©
and George Sergius de Mohrenschild. In like manner he
also seems to have varied his former ethnic origin from
Russian, to Polish, Swedish, Danish, and German. There
appear to be two versions of his mother's maiden name:
Alexandra Latoskey and Alexandra Zapolski.

re EBI Special Agent James F. Morrissey came to

’ CIA on 19 March 1964 and reviewed this Agency's files

' on the de Mohrenschildt's. ; oo
"g, On 17 March 1964 the FBI furnished to this

‘Agency a report dated 28 February 1964. The report pro-

vides details about one Yuri (George) de Mohrenschild's

 

 

contact with Fedor Alekseevich Garanin, who was a Soviet
diplomat in Washington, D.C., in 1946. In that report
Yuri (George) de Mohrenschild was described as a petro-
leum engineer who had worked in the Texas oil fields
and in Venezuela. Concerning Garanin, our records show
that he has been a member of. the Soviet State Security
Service probably since the mid-1940's. He served in
Cuba in 1943; after World War II he also served in the
U.S., Hungary, and Finland. According to our records,
the information about Garanin and his association with
the Soviet State Security Service has also been known
to the FBI. ; . ;

"9. You may also wish to make inquiries at the
Office of Naval Intelligence; the Assistant Chief of
Staff, Intelligence, Department of the Army; the Depart-
ment of State;-and the Civil Service Commission because

3.
 

- ; oO | ; 7 4

these departments also have information about
George de Mohrenschildt." , :

_-(Comment: This document was released under. the FOI Act
with portions deleted. The deleted portions include in-
formation which was received from a foreign liaison service
as well as information which might tend to identify an
Agency source, information which originated with the FBI
which the FBI will discuss directly with the requester, in-
‘formation identifying an FBI special agent, information .
identifying Agency components, as well as information relating

_to Agency internal filing instructions. The deletiotis were |
made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2),

(b) (3), and (b) (7) (F). See copy under Tab B.) :

 

' 3. As indicated above, the Agency was interested in
obtaining reports from de Mohrenschildt in 1957 relating to
his trip to Yugoslavia on behalf of the International Coopera-
tion Agency (ICA). Contact Division (now Domestic Collection

‘Division - DCD) had its representative in Dallas, J. Walton
Moore, contact de Mohrenschildt. The history of Moore's
relationship with de Mohrenschildt from 1957 to 1961 is
attached under Tab C. In his testimony taken on 23 April 1964
at 200 Maryland Avenue NE, Washington, D.C., by Mr. Albert E.
Jenner, Jr., assistant counsel of the President's Commission,

- de Mohrenschildt described his contact with Walter Moore,

ae whom he referred to as G. Walter Moore [sic - J. Walton Moore].

—ee De Mohrenschildt's statement concerning Moore is contained

 

on page 235 of Volume IX of the Hearings before the President's
Commission on the Assassination of President. Kennedy. A copy
of page is attached under Ta . o. ;

_ 4 As a routine action, Moore requested traces on
de Mohrenschildt.. The traces (see Tab E) contained sufficient
derogatory information to preclude further extensive con-
tact with the de Mohrenschildt's. A summary of information

on de Mohrenschildt from the Office of Security appears
under Tab F. .

 

5. Conclusion: Géorge de Mohrenschildt was never a
"recruited agent" of the Central Intelligence Agency. For
approximately four years (1957 - 1961), a representative of -—
the Agency -had had a periodic contact with de Mohrenschildt
for the purpose of obtaining overt information which the
latter obtained during his travels abroad. These contacts

 

 
