>

RET

Secretary of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan
Bosch, BAST did not indicate to Owen if had performed
the job.

muy

{There is no record of a clearance having been issued for
nfilization of Richard L, BAST or REDEX, }
74-0000

Dd

p

overseas. BAST, described as "unscrupulous and untrust-
worthy”, is known to have atternpted to contract with another
private detective for planting a remote-controlled bomb in the
headquarters of the Haiti Secret Police, and has been reported
to have undertaken similar extreme assignments for exile
groups from Haiti and the Dominican Republic. (Based on
derogatory information on file, DCS, in March 1967, decided
against previously contemplated contact with BAST as a
source of information on Asia, =

“ a

TURNER of RAMPARTS

   
   
 
 

a
BAST, REDEX, and William WV.
q

a
thes that during January 1967,
William W. TURNER, who i
writer, visited the offices of the
information for a magazine article, He stated that he had
‘been 2sked by Sol Stern of New York to gather information for
an article in the New York Times, During his visit, however,
it became obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions
about the financing of the foundation, rather than its actual
purpose og activities. When TURNER concluded the interview
he left a calling card with the firm name "REDEX-PACIFIC".
He explained he bad to have new cards printed. TUR
reportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is noted,
authored an axticle in the November 1966 issue of R
Magazine in which he describes alleged wireta pi
reptitious entry, etc.» performed by him while wi the FBL
Sol Stern, whom he claimed to represent, is assis
managing editor of RAMPARTS Magazine.

 
  
   
 

ants)

 

Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exile

(The foregoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVEL
with FURR, FURR's connection with BAST, and a possible
connection between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS.
The following indicates the only CIA involvement in the chain
which might be exploited in subsequent attempts to link CIA

to the entire affair in auestion.). a
os ™ ON

On 29 April 1963, ‘Robert E>Owen, shen Chief, WE/3 and (7) 4

now of () Mixected-athemorandum to the chiest\4 \e :

Ze
~ .

 
14-00000

“EGRET
wH/6 om which he documented a
“27 Azstt 1963, with Raymork
exile om Haiti, Inthamemofandum he relates that the
conve setion took place in the home of Richard L. BAST
whom iaven had met through a neighbor, Lioyd FURR.

  
   
 
 

rsation he had on
SSAGNOL} an anti-Duvalier

_ The =2morandam relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,
political stance, etc. Reported as significant by Owen isa
statessent by BAST that the following week BAST would be
sencz=g a sbipload of arms to a CASSAGNOL-affiliated group
in the Dominican Republic. Owen noted: “Raymond
CASSAGNOL gives appearance of thinking well of Richard

\ BAST. According to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques,
1 aiso mmows BAST and respects him. Thus BAST, in spite of
certain personal shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,
does represent an established channel te at least one segment -
of the Haitian oppoaition to Duvalier. Since according to his
owa statement, BAST is supplying arms to CASSAGNOL's
groups, further transactions of thia type via BAST presumably
would not be difficult to arrange." He also provided g detailed

j information on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had

- mentioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that
"CIA double-crossed them" (the Dominicans).

~.

An FDI report on BAST dated 19 June 1963 xeports that Owen,
"‘Poreign Service Reserve Officer, USDS" (his cover) had
reported 16 May 1963 his attendance at dinner at BAST'a home
on 27 April 1963. Owen told of his meeting with CASSAGNOL,
BAST's bstention to sell arme to the Dominican Republic and
Haitian exiles, etc, He also reports that on 7 May 1963, BAST
asked him to perform some transiation work. The translation,

cb
\z
3
:
:
é
g
2
E
3
3
t

documentation for legal establishment of REDEX CORPORATION,
C POB A, a DR branch of BAST's firm. According to Owen,

40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National
Security Agency, the head ef the DR secret police, and an
individual well-connected with Dominican Republic police and
intelligence groups. BAST is also noted to have told Owen

of an offer BAST had made to "bug" the office of the Dominican

/

 
 

 

the case intends te use his CIA connections as part of his defense \
and that "still others linked to the Garrison investigation have been

named as acting for the super-secret espionage organization--as

informera, as couriers and munitions carriers". it named Novel asa

having the strongest ties to CIA, and quotes him as calling the alleged

‘bunker burglary 28 “the most patriotic burglary.in history". -He .
reportedly has told associates, states the news item, that the alleged
theft was a war materials pickup made at the difection of his CIA. Sth
contact. According to Novel, the late David Ferrig, and Sheu
others were involved in the bunker igcident, .
explosives were picked up and consolidated SCoa affer the bunker mu
incident and eventually taken by boat to Cuba for use ina diversionary

operation in connection with the Bay of Pigs invasion, (This statement .
conflicts with Novel's reported statement to the FBI's media source,

paragraph one.above, which dates the bunker theft as three months

after the. Bay of Pigs. District Attorney Garrison also haa charged

the bunker incident took place three months after the Cuban invasion. }

The newspaper also quotes Novel ae contending that he operated the

Evergreen Advertising Agency in New Orleans as a front for CIA
communications in an elaborate use of commercials to alert agents

to the date of the Bay of Pigs invasion. :

 
 

4. Novel, according to the presa report, has said "I think
Garrison will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana”, but did not
elaborate. His attorney, however, would appear to place little faith
in Novel's claims. Ina Columbus, Ohio, interview, Jerry Weiner,

. attorney for Nevel, when told of the press reports of Nevel's state-
ments, said: "It's utterly ridiculous. - Novel is not now and has never
been a CIA agent."

 

5, There is no record of any utilization ¢f Gordon Dwane Novel,
Sergio V. Arcacha Smith, or the Evergreemdd rtising Agency. (In
addition to Office of Security-r dj
were checked for possible indication of operatipbnal involvement. )

é
6. Inquiries with WH/Cuba, the Office of Logistics, and
several Agency officers involved with munitions storage in the New
Orleans area at the time of the Bay of Pigs fail to develop any
indication of past operational activity of the natare described by Novel.
Officers who handled project munitions storage in the area have indi-
cated that ali the munitions were stored af a reactivated Naval depot

  
 

°. La

SUBJECT" —— : Claimed Agency Affiliation by @ 3.4 mo

_ assassinate the late President... According to the FBI information,

ww

4

sn tee '392,2502/1045

JIA Review on, MAR 1977 oR

(tostotoe-t04n6

 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

) hr |@

a MAY 1967
TChes Garter:

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support Cen Let “3
cnr Aet Oe

Conspiracy Case Figures

1, This memorandum is for your information only. - .

2. On the afternoon of 24 April 1967, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation advised this Office of claimed Agency affiliation by a
fugitive witness in the New Orleans investigation into a conspiracy to

received froma news media source, Gordon Dwane Novel, the
fugitive witness, had indicated he is currently employed by the CIA
and the alleged burglary of a munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana,
in 1961, involved CIA and was not a burglary. According to Novel,
the Schlumberger Well Service had an arrangement with CIA wherein
it leased a bunker in which ammunition, bomb casings and other
material would be stored for CIA. According to Novel, it was
intended to ship the material out of the U.S. in Schlumberger boxes
labeled “machinery”. Again according to Novel, following the Bay
of Pigs invasion, the Schlumberger interests became upset and
wanted out of their contract with CIA, Three months aiter the -
invasion, states Novel, arrangements were rade for the material
stored in the bunker to be removed by Novel and his group. At the —
time the material was removed, the states, an individual involved
also took some of Schlumberger's low grade powder and fuses and
other material, Novel haa reportedly supplied someone with the
names of the others involved with thé burglary. He specificially
told the media source that he and one Arcacha Smith are still
employed by CIA and that should he be returned to New Orleans

to face charges of burglary of the bunker, he would offer this as his

defenge. :

 

3. The following day, 25 April, a story in the New Orleans
States Item charged there is mounting evidence of Central Intelli-
gence Agency links in District Attorney Garrison's presidential
assassination conspiracy probe, noting that at least one figure in

eet

  
 
opt er

ae roan i

and completely under Agency control, Munitions in transit were
guarded, and there is no knowledge of utilization of commercial
storage facilities of the Schlumberger interests or any other
commercial firm. (The Office of Logistics has had dealings in the
past with Schlamberger-related firms, but-has avoided activities
with the Schlumberger firm because of its foreign ownership and
questionable personalities in the firm. DCS has had an interest in
the past in some personalities affiliated with Schlumberger, but
reportedly unrelated to any matters as alleged by Novel. }

7. As noted above, Novel has claimed to the press that the
munitions from the bunker were to be used Dr a diversionary ;
operation at the time of the Bay of Pigs, Agency officers familiar
with the operation at the reactivated Naval depot, the Belle Chasse
Ammunition Depet, have indicated that such a diversionary opera-

.. tion was based at Belle. Chasse, but.that the operation was. cancelled
before 4 landing was made. Any number of participating Cubana
would be aware such a diversionary operation was planned.

3. The CI Staff, ina detailed staff stady of the Garrison

investigation, hag. CIA c ‘fuith only two figures named
in the inquiry, Clay Dy Shaw-and Carl ringuier, in both cases the
contact was lint estic ( rvice activities, The

study specifically notes there ha¥e been no documented Agency -
utilization of Novel, Ferrie or Arcacha Smith, those named by Novel
in his atatements to the press about the bunker incident.

9. During the course of our inquiries inta Novel's charges,
one tenuous Link was developed which conceivably could be exploited
and distorted in atternpts to link this Agency with Novel and others.

_An interlinking with a personality reportedly from Ramparts Magazine

“might also indicate a connection between Novel's charges and the con-
certed efforts of some to smear the Agency. This altuation is
described in an attachment to this memorandum.

A aloo, & Gy Ws aate tof

Howard J, Osborn
Director of Security

 
74-0000

 

A. NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive witneas in the
Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27
March 1967.as having been polygraphed the. previous day on the
case under investigation by Garrison. According to the presa
reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination
conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR. In statements
. to the press, FURR indicated there was no indication of :
deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a

 

_ a private detective, iz a self-proclaimed polygraph “ezpert"
and sound device specialist. He has received publicity i in the
past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr.
in the St, Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he
discovered Hetening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine,
In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D. C.
firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was
attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via
an agent in Hong Kong. (TSD had unclassified contact with
FURR in 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by FURR. }

C. Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained
noteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously -
unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the
Bobby Baker case... He is known to operate at least four
enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

|, private detective agency; 2) RE OE VIETNAM. INC. » a firm

% which imports a variety of commiodifies ranging from liquor to

, automobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S, -recruited
. "go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is nifg; 3) REDEX_

K _CORP., a firm which sells almost anything ¢ .

"* “Other than South Vietnam; and 4). CONSOLIDATED ARMAMENTS, \
INC., 2 firm which sells smali heme-to-foreign-_governments-and~
private individualg abroad. BAST also produces and distributes
both positive audio and counteraudio devices in the U.S. and

  
 

 
