 

Od-f01 1410064

vie SECRET
Daniel L.

1. The following U.S. documentation vas(prepared by TSD/IB in ling 'es indicated:
YS - : 4G

New York Driver's License

Pennsylvania Birth Certificate

Social Security Card

Reserve Officers Association Membership Card
American Association of Engineers Membership Card
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Insurence Card
International Certificate of Vaccination

 

a. The residence, | | New Yoru, is e multiple
dvelling unit and was provided by Central Cover. ‘This address is shown in the Hew
York Driver's License, Reserve Officers Association Membership Card, U.S. &

G. Insurance Cari, and International Certificate of Vaccination.

 

b. The Reserve Officers Association Membership Card shows that CARSWELL
is a Captain in the USAFR. CARSWELL stated to TSD/IB that his documents
should show that he is single. — . :

c. The Anerican Association of Engineers Menbership Card ie an existing
Organization. The address of the Association is listed as 8 South Michigan
Avenue, Chicago, ILlinois.

a. The International Certificate of Vaccination was prepared by the
Agency Immunization Branch and shows that CARSWELL was vaccinated by Rolla
R. Wolcott, Medical Officer USPHS Outpatient Clinic, 67 Hudson St. New York
13, Kew York. .

e. The place of employment which CARSWELL obtained from Central Cover
was not shown on any of the above documents. However, he was told by Central
Cover that he has worked for VACHUTA ASSOCIATES since May 1960 as a
production manager.

2. <@SD/IB provided CARSWELL with information-instruction briefs vhich
explained how he normally would have obtained his documentation.

3- When purchasing his ticket to Cuba, CARSWELL would have been required to fill
out two copies of a Cuban Identity/Disembarkation Card (Tarjeta de Identidad). One
copy of the Tarjeta is picked up by Cuban Immigration Authorities upon landing in Cuba,
and the other copy is retained by him until he leaves Cube at which time he hes to
surrender it to Immigretion officera. The Tarjeta contains the following information on
the individual: :

Name Occupation “Address during etay in Cuba

Nationality Point of Exbarkation Tourist, Transient, Resident
Country of Birth Carrier or Immigrant.

Age Flight Number .

Sex Date of Arrival

Marital Status Permanent Address

SECRET

 

 
