74-0000

 

also mentioned the possibility the Potomac bridges might have to be
cut off or blockaded and the démonstrations turn to clvil disobedience
if the demands are wot met by the Cengreas. response, MY.

Ralph Spencer, Chairman of the Board of the Church, and an employes

of the Department of Agriculture, stated the Church could not and
would not be a party to any unlawful act.

 

 

Two members of the Board of Directors of the Church
subsequently contacted Mr. Spencer to express grave roservations
about thelr church becoming deeply involved in the Peer People's
Campaign. Both indicated to Mr. Spencer that they desired a mest~
ing of the Board to air the issues involved. On the evening of 16
yAarch 1968, the Board of Directors met to dlecuse their participa-
tion. A “blanket endorsement” of the Poor People's Campaign was
proposed. The Board aplit four to four. A second propossi called
for the Church's Social Responsibilities Cornmittes to serve as the
focal point for receiving and reviewing all requests for support by
the Poor People's Campsign. whether from the SCLC or the Virginia
Counetl on Human Relations. The proposal called for the chorch to
examine each request and situation as ft developed and to decide on
the support to be rendered—or not rendered. This second proposal
was approved by & seven to ons vote, the sole dissenter being
Sherman R. Abrahameon, a former CIA employee now with the
Department of Commerce. ;

The first request to be considered under the Board's
approved guideline was that requesting the church to act as & store-
house for food supplies. The Board agreed to honor the request.

Because of his deep concern that the Arlington Unitarian
Church and its Board might be duped or exploited by elaments of
the Poor People's Campaign, the source bas indicated a willingness
to provide additional information as the Campaign develops.

- Attached are copies of materials provided the source
by the aforementioned Frank Adama.
 

id t0120-10402

© 9 MAR wee

MEMORANDUM FOR : Director =
i Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION + Mr. William 0. Cregar

SUBIECT : Martin Lather King, Jr.

though the information provided dose not reflect any violation af
Federal law or intent te do so, it is transmitted to your Bureas for

information concerning the Subject and his “Campaign. *
Source hae advised that Mr. Frank Adams, axzecutive

i director of the Virginia Council on Houmas Relations, recently con-
tacted Mix. Robert Clarke, minister of the Arlington Unitarian
|

“Command Center“ te support the epcoming Poor People's Cam-~
l paign headed by Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr.
i
|

 

 
14-00000

 

 

The information contained in this memorandum is for
your internal use only and is not to be disseminated cutside your
Bureau without prior approval of this Agency. Please tranamit
any correspondence on this matter, Via Liaison, Attention:
Director of Security.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

signed

|/ CHARLES We KARD -
* Howard J. Osborn
' Director of Security

Attachments as stated

 

ce: / |(37123) w/o att
_ Mayer, Alan Eugene (56279) w/o att

Subj's file — / at
Black Power Threat (534 051) efe ©

 

OS/SRS/EFSayle/pjh - 26 March 1968
