“ : : 5.

together each of the links in the chain before
it to do the job expected of it.

 

“File: |
Program

committing
13-00000

~2-

committed to the operation have been thoroughly and
successfully tested by rehearsal exercises run under
simulated, but as realistic as possible, conditions

approximating those of the target area. A-~4's des-

ecription pointed up too many flaws in the, program at this
time, which could prove fatal to any operation attempted
in the near future.

d. Equipment. Still in the process of being em-
placed where needed, and procurement or training of
personnel for operation and maintenance of equipment
is still in progress. They are not yet able to handle
breakdowns and mechanical failures without interruption
of support to operations.

1
1

e. Transportation. The most glaring and fatal defect
to both operations and support at the present time. Until
the AKL and its crew are operating smoothly and effi-
ciently under all conditions, the operation cannot be ~
certain of proper support. All operations, plus logistics
support, are dependent upon this ship. It is not yet
operating at the minimum level of efficiency to support
combat type operations.

There are three bases on the coast of Nicaragua,
plus one on the coast of Costa Rica, and one in the
interior. Of the four coastal bases, two cannot dock the
AKL, including the ordnance reception and storage base
in Costa Rica, and the operational Headquarters base at
Monkey Point in Nicaragua. Of the five bases, only two
can now be supported by the e transport aircraft (C-47)
assigned to the program. Liafison and command travel by
light aircraft will be increaSingly necessary as the
program expands and becomes more active. At present, the
entire Nicaraguan portion is dependent upon the loan of a
light aircraft from the host government. One Cesna-180
is in Costa Rica. With no highways and railraods
connecting the scattered bases, airstrips and aircraft are
going to be required to support and control the various
phases of the program, particularly in times of foul
weather and heavy seas.

£. Communications. A-4 describes communications as
still being developed, both as to equipment, operators
and maintenance. He is a thoroughly trained, tested and
competent communicator himself, and I would tend to trust
his judgment. He is not yet satisfied with his communica-
tions -system. ,
 

104-10306-10082

iP

AMWORLD Meeting in Baltimore, 9 February 1964

SUBJECT: Estimate of Operational Readiness Status -

1. Based upon discussions with AMJAVA-4 on 9 February 1964,
I estimate AMWORLD at approximately three months away from being
ready to conduct operations against the target area. This
estimate is based upon the description of the project by AMJAVA-4,
including personnel assets, level of organization, state of

training, condition and location of equipment, transportation,

communications, logistics, construction of housing and training .
facilities, leadership and technical personnel available, and |
relations with host governments in Central America. My own
experience in 1960 in establishing and managing similar personnd
and physical facilities, for what was planned, initially at’ lea
as a quite similar program in the same area, has also been con-
sidered in the above estimate. A brief discussion in each subject
matter field follows.

1
at,

Me

a. Personnel assets. A cadre group is in Costa Rica
and in Nicaragua at present. They appear tobe sufficient
‘to proceed with the development offacilities, but in Nicaragua
at least, a period of construction and organization is
necessary before more people should be recruited and shipped
to the camps. A-4 feels the situation in Costa Rica is
probably about the same.

b. Level of organizatiol| The leadership and managerial
assets now on board in the px®gram are spread very thin. A
time for testing and training, fitting people and organiza-~
tion together is required. A program such as this one cannot
risk having the wrong man in the wrong place at the wrong
time.

ce. State of training. This varies from a few thoroughly
trained, experienced, and capable men (to my personal
knowledge) down through the degrees to completely inex-
perienced recruits. Various levels of training, from basic
training, up to refresher training for experienced men must
be accomplished before competent, functional teams and units
are developed. After that point, more operational training
for specific missions must be done before teams or units can
be committed. I would strongly recommend that no operation
be launched until the operational plan and all elements
13-00000

ren

-3-

g. Logistics. Supplies are still being procured,

“received, stored, and processed. The system is still in

the developmental stage, as to personnel and facilities.

h. Construction of housing and training facilities.
Still in progress, limited to the extent indicated above
by shortcomings in personnel, organization and other

factors indicated in discussions of other related topics.

i. Leadership and technical personnel available.
This is the heart of any program, but particularly a
paramilitary operation. There is presently a shortage
of_both_types. The prevailing philosophy within AMWORLD
present leadership is to screen thoroughly the candidates,
with selection based primarily upon personal commitment
of the candidate on an individual basis to complete support!
of AMBIDDY-1 and his organization. This negates the H
possibility of going outside into the various pools of
personnel and bidding for the services of already competent,
leaders and technicians. Leadership and organization must |
evolve and grow from within, and technicians must be
trained within the organization which results. This takes
time, and there will be many fumbles and falls as they
learn to crawl, then toddle, then to walk, and finally

 

‘to run. For what its's worth, I agree with them. This

is on the basis of trying before to marry up basically

-discordant elements of Indonesians, Cubans, and Vietnamese

into teams which theoretically contained the leadership

and technical qualities required for good operations. We
found, in too many cases, the personality clashes that
resulted were so done better po sti as to make us wonder

if we would have done better [fo stick to compatible groups
of people and try to develop ®he required qualities from
among them. I certainly believe ifs worth a try, assuming
we can afford the time and money required, and the patience,
to give it a fair try.

j- Relations with host government. A-4 hinted at
some of the problems, but I do not claim to be familiar
enough with Central American politics to make a meaningful
discussion. As I understand it, Costa Rica is a liberal
oriented,, democratic countr with limited internal security
forces. 24
mainly on thé Stréngtn of AMBIDDY-I'S personal magnetism
and selling job. However, unfavorable publicity would
seriously threaten the survival in power of the present
regime, which would have to react defensively by throwing

 

 
13-00000

-4-

them out. Just the opposite case exists next door in
Nicaragua, which is more of a police state, and where
the main danger seems to be that the Somozas might at
‘any time support the program so vigorously that they end
up by taking de facto control of it. In each case,
AMWORLD must try to operate half a program in each country,
not letting the other know the extent of his neighbors
activity, and carefully balancing off one against the
other so that each feels he is the favored suitor. This
is a ticklish business, and the technique has not yet
been perfected, apparently.

2. None of the above discussion should be taken as fault-

.finding or destructive criticism. In fact, I feel that, under

the circumstances, they have done extremely well. I found no

real surprises in any of the points we covered during the 9 Feb ‘64
meeting, and actually felt that the description given by A-4 pu
the program about where I would have expected it to be. They are
fortunate to have A-4 and a few others who went through similar ,
problems with me in 1960. Hopefully, they may have learned
something from my mistakes.

3. To get back to the subject issue, as I see it, AMWORLD

, gan do either of two things, but not both. They can continue

  

with what appears to me to be a_generally sound approach to ~~
developin the person d physical assets, they wi require. —.
for strective operations, JI believe they can do this, and still
divert the attention and effort necessary to prepare and mount
out one or moresmall, simple, quick in and out operations such.
as low risk sabotage, abduction or assassination, release and
exfiltration of prisoners, small id, or other harassment
measures, within a period of approfkimately three months.

4. On theother hand, the limited AMWORLD managerial
capability and existing assets can be focused entirely upon
mounting out an operation and this could be done in about one
month. In my estimation, the other problem areas described
‘above would likely be neglected during that period, with
resulting detriment to orderly growth and development of the
project. I believe that the chances for success under the
first option above would be measureably greater, a solid founda-
tion for the entire program could be laid down, and the payoff
in the long run much more. However, it must be pointed out
that AMWORLD will have to ‘have successful operations before the
people and support they willjrequire are forthcoming in sufficient
numbers to perform their ultimate mission. So we find ourselves
caught somewhat in a vicious circle, bound round by a chain of
circumstances and factors that are required for successful
paramilitary operations. JI would prefer to weld tightly
