-

-

Acting Chief, Physical Seourity Pivisten - 33 December 1954

Acting Cates, Physical oarvey Branch

 
 
 
   
  

Security Violation Report ~ ixpored Chaesiete
: | BARKHIM, John Fo

_ GOODPASTURZ, Aan Le

le On 2 Rovenber 1958 at 8120 BP, Mey Mra, Pinkie Ze babes, a member
of the BS Char Force, found a SECRSY cable dated 20 dune 1952 on_thi “Cae
under a desk in Room 1920, "1" Bullding., Night Security Officer |
responded to the telerhane eall fron the Guard Office and secured the mate
in his safe at B1h0 P Pe & Hey after, leaving 6 an explanitory note on the doske’

of this Branch, aceo
by Xr. [ehabies

 

 

 

investigated the violation.
During the course of the ievortieecten ur. John Fe farkhan, int nee Officer, .
Nre2, hiss Ann L, Goodpasture, Intelligence Office Er ;
Intelligence Officer, NE/SP, and He, ‘ae Branch Chief,
K5=-2, all of 20/ P/E, were interviewed. : — heey

3. Hr. Harkham advised that he was responsible for the ‘severity,
He etsted that on 24 Hovember 1954 he was cleaning out old flles as a part ef
general security clean up, and that apparently the cable in questions hed fallen
under the desk at which he was working. He stated also that be had left the -
room at about $109 P. H., but that apparently he had overloscked the material. :

ko Nise Goodpasture advised that she had been assigned ‘responsibility for.
conducting the Staff Duty Officer inspection of Room.1910 on the date in questions;
She stated that she had conducted her inspection of the room at ebout 5:20 P. He
but thet sprarentiy # she had overlooked the cable due hed ite. Position w under the

desk. :

. 5. Mr. ladvised thet he had elso | been asaligned pasponstht tity’ for
conducting the Staff y Officer inspection of Room 1310 on the date in question.
He stated thst he conducted his inspection of the room at about 5120 P.M. but
that apparently he had overlooked the cable.

 
 

  

 

 

   
 
 
  
   

   

6. ves oo atviced that, 4n hie opinion a covprontse of the cable would
jeopardize no personnel, plans or operations of the Agency, because the subject
matter wag naeini erative and the cable wes dated is duns 19526

7. re (22a Jecvteca that by Taternal REA Division Security legutations,
two people are azelgned responsibility for conducting the Staff Duty Officer check
_and that they are responsible for checking all floor surfaces under deskBe

 
 

[toetonirton] we os
: we . @ Gq

 
     
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
    
   
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
 

ty
w ’ 4
ay “e

Chief, NzA Division, D/P
atte : Security Officer

Aebing Chief, Physical Seourlty. Division:

“Security Violation Report |”
MANNA, dom Fy

 

   

 

; to paragraph 2
this is the third security violation charged to Er, the previcus™~
violations having occurred on 1 December 1950 and. Jamsary 1951. ‘However, =
since more than two years have elapsed since these vielations, any aduinistrat
ection should be based on one official violation, «= =.

 

3. In compliance with CIA Security Regulation No, 10-7, Section B--.
(6), it is requested that this office be inforred of action t aken as a result<
of the security violation, It would be appreciated if such report could be
furnished in quadruplicate. ee) ee OS

  
 
  

    

FOR THR MIRBCTOR OF SECURITY, CIAt

   

| John D, Selb

Attachments (2) © —
. Violation Report .

So. Al/ad

PLatribution: ;
Orig. & l= Addrosepe
1 ~ Er. /F19éx/} a ;
3 = Subjects! Security Files --7
Le Chrome 2°

  

ASTURN
‘Background
Do:

  
14-00000

“wiolatdioss Gecurred more than twe ysars prior te the Gate of the Lostent

 
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
   

 

a2a
CONCLUSIR: ne = a at
: 8. The ¢ ecs in this case indicate that Er. Herkham, Miss Goode.
pasture and Bre are Jointly responsible f for the * security violation.
secu
9 Ere previously has been ebarged sth an ispcoper tranents one
of classified ts security vicletion which occurred on 1 December 1950 ai

an unlocked e2fe security violation which eccurrsé on 27 January 1951. In.
addition, he lost a Building #U, Badge on LL Anguet 1949. However, in com
with Section 20-7, B (7) of CLA Security Regulations, 4t 1s noted that such

In connection wits tha game section, it is tobe noted that Kiss Goodpastu
and Xp. Xarkham heve been exmplayed by the Agency for more than six years and.
three i respectively, without » Brevionsly having, been caret with | &

a Re

 
