 

°»

. “a

   
       
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 

 

. 5. Ray inquired woether or not a decision had bee: msis’m the

’ Qyaining of certain MAP singietane. J sald thet this was ¢ matter for
@ecuseioa on the technical leve.. (Comment: unless this has been
done already, I would suggest thet WH/LL/PM tranenit pertinent
“dnetractéone on this matter to MASH as 600m ae possible.)

6. Do wa have axploatves ingide Cube now which could be given to
the MAP people at un early date, Ray asked? “My anewer to this was that
I simply did not knov. (Coments I would siggest that Wi/./Pa exendne
bre ms) ond furnish pertinent instructions—-whatever they may bo-=

J. While Ruy never deviated during this meeting from bis previous ~~
agreenant to coordinate military plane with us, he caatimed to probe te ~
find oat whether or not we would be willing to aiuply. furnish him the |

| mea with witch this group could wilateraiiy momt operations. 4 osse
in polnts "We nesd a boat,® Sey eaid. It io realized that mach a beet
costs money and, later on, certain cover arrangenante will heave to be
devieesd. Could we buy the boat; could we provide it with the neceseary |
covery and, after this ia done, would we then tamn the boat over to the |
AGP to be used as thay see fit? My enewer vas that this would (all into
the category of daplicetion, which had teen explorel fully previously
daring this mesting. (See parts ane aid two af this Contact Report.).

cia nna te eae wa EA ot

 

  

8. Pay informed xe that he had sent, word to Tay Varma and that &
- mecting with him would he arranged soony we al) mast participete ia.
establishing s syeten under which democratic institutions can be

bitshed and osn be preserved, Ray renerked.

$. Rey told we that he end Chibas had on sppointuant with « Rr.
San Ealpern(?) of Tine magesine in the of 22 Rovenber.

.' > ° 30. Gould I expedite « visa f

. working in Madrid for Guastelis, a Cubin firm?
lised by the MRP in psychological warfare work.
Anto this matter. - |. :

  
     
  
  
  

_-- -pobldely. Could I use sy idfluence with the Petitegan or other places

 
 

“Ray Felt that Sori hed big
at his, Sorits, 6

 
 
   
  

weke any approaches to Sori. (Commoti
“KASH traffic on Sorts therafare, this itea is called to WY/L/RIs |
‘attention for whatever use they tatend to nake of it.) -
 

104-10179-10102

 

" his staff sed that they would be given Sid theagtt in tas ferthceatng |
woeks.-

93 Nevenber 1960

 

SURSECT: Meeting with Manuel Pay . ‘Potee ia the lattarts
uo epartsmt (30 Wert Nt. Stre-:, Vow Yoru Stty) om 22
Novewter, 205i). : ~

Past Tanah oF ieee

“ie whe ptt
lanecas infer

 

Reig, 9.0% eck

2. Throaghet the entire covversation at tecene quite clear that
Karrie. Ray anc sie eivisers mst have dieccesed amorgst themselves the
Wario.s prebing yiestians which Eender nad raceet with incividaal MiPers
O% Varicug acces: $; a8 @ regalt of thege tales am-rget themselves ib
appears tc we that the MPP is beyinring te tere cew. some of ite nore
cantrcvareia] poaitices: there was repeatal mafezence te the MEPta
desize and cor si:tion to rewain oc the oes? of r 4 .
te be Cully cima tied to the free Wests most expha ly, Ray preciat
any isplicetion thet he and/or his groap eseht ha
tima--ne does uct see himself in the rcle of a
Agath andagain, Manuel Ray emphasised tre reed.
Orda "gs infl.ence in Cuba te the utmost. wha ask

 

 

 
 
 
    
  
 
 

 

the Sovi et

 
  
  
  
   

 

whether he wuld retain the Scviet/Chifce srvassias be carat Le ae
tried to talk arcomd the subject, saying that <2 engh:zs would

have to be censicered in the iight of existirg es at any .

giver: timer he closed this topic by ssying chat Kesies of xatere

natiomel etguifieacce had not been fully considered ‘a3 yet by himeelf or

    
 

\
vos NTIS METS, BESS EESTI

          
  
   

 

3 dinar me .

 

a 13. Approximately fire KEP people currently stationtd in Bew York
. ‘ore in touch with Pidelistag in that ares, Ray eaid. fhe KGP people are
oo obtaining intelligauce T>aa these Cestro foliowers and st the same tine -
atl _+ Working co thea to induse their defection. Ray did not unt te give the
. names of thage people to me end I did not purwae the mtter further at
this session. a ste . . Ce

a io i
os GERARD DROLLER

. . - Oats Pa :
GOscuh. .

Orgs
22 Gheyh & c/aa/ifore (rat te BA).

 

 
