13-00000

 

~ ye eo
~B=

 

 

SECRET

Te Personnel involved in the tapping of the lines are:

} who has access to the /contrals} He contacts the fol-

lowing ment
_Iwe_brothers
doss exchange connections.

 

    
    
   
    
  

8 Tha take from cach basehouse is collected early in the morning

‘before ‘office hours by RAFAWELLI. He only enters one basehouse which is

eecupded by an elderly couple. All other contacts are in automobiles
made at different spots each day of the week. RAFANELLI then takes the

jnaterdal to a macting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where RAFANELLI

" tins the material over to SECHEN and they all discuss the problems and

plans: for tha day.
; Oe ’ Aocording to VILSTED there is no Live monitoring done by any
the basehouse keepers.
nae ;
10. There follows 9 list of at wae

tt

a) + formerly covered American comnies, now
: no lines. Being held for future use.

 

- b} . Cuban residence —
: Russian Commercial
{ ' BE. T. (Nicaraguan)

 

“+ @) } 2 Polish
ee Seborer
Tropete
Bekier

a) } Cuban military office
Cuban Ambassador's office
Campos (travel agency)

1 spare

a) WAR
; Ejercito Nacional 540 (name of person un~
kmown)

 

 

 

 

£) - facilities for three lines. Formerly
ocessed the Czech linss. Now nothing
but being held open.

eg
g) = 3 Soviet Embassy (tapped in tre[Centrai)
1 Soviet propaganda office (tap in

SECRET

 

 

 
104-10413-10053

 

 

jpy

 

 

   
  
  
  
     
  
 
   
 
    
   
 
 

.) ARES

MEMORANTM FOR TH3 RECORD Paosé
‘SUBURCT: PSBRIEFING OF NAVIN M, WILSTED (ps)

 

 

6 1960 Nr. « John. Kennedy of WHD
£ Or/ors, MF £ FI/OPS and Mr. b

 

 

" 2. yILSTED emphasized that the whole tolephone. systen in Hexico
Okty: isiundergoing a reformation. The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.,
: : has sub-sentrected this work of cleaning up and reorganizing the phone

“gystem to. the independent firm, Intel. They are cleaning up unused and
, old lines, putting in new and spare lines, redefining exchanges areas,
“laying. underground cables, etc. Eventually we should be better off be-
cause: there should be more surplus lines. The renovation vork has
“hampered much of the LIFRAT work, principally because meny of the Lines
“now gate underground and we camot get access to them before they enter
the -cantral. This is particularly truo with respect to the Czech Em-
"pasty, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage
point wa now occupy.

 

iy

. Be | WILSTRD seid that we try to keep track of the activities of
' "Intel" but since they seem to attack "Colonias" at random, we have no
Prior warning of their presence in a certain arene

“te In the recent past, Mexico has been using houses for listing
posts for security reasons. ‘e have more control over the access of
phone company inspectors or repairman to houses. Tlowever, under new
regulations, all new apartment buildings must hava telephone lines ine
atalled in the building by the phone company during the construction
phase. This means that tho lines and their destination ere concealed.
WILSTED proposed that this will mean we can egain use apartments since
we oan siphon off a line destined for use by another tenant in such a
way that the phone company cannot trace ita destination without tearing
the building apart and we can then install a separate line to the build-
ing and hook up the subscriber to this line which, if checked, will
belong to a. legitimate subscriber.

5. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half
of two separate pairs which have one faulty line sach. These owo half
pairs then form one good pair which we can use.

6 WILSTED explained that it cost about 3000 pesos to get a ‘
regquler telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company
bond, which later can be sold. —

 

SECRET
