74-0000

  

Sac le SF} GCA EMPTY gion ear ta

vee senate

  

them with me, but no, not just yet. The detective dilated upon the

number of men and man-hours the investigation had consumed and |

suggested an additional reward should be forthcoming. {named the
sum already paid him by the insurance company and suggested that
it was quite enough. He closed the lid of the strongbox. Lasked him
what figure he had in mind. He raised the strongbox lid. Five cases
of scotch would do nicely, he told me with a vulpine grin. [felt like
shooting him, but bargained him down to three. True at last to his
word, the detective came to my home the following day, turned aver
the strongbox to me and carted off three cases of scotch, which, I
knew, he would be able to sell for three or four hundred dollars on
the black market. ;
Thad been slow to learn the traditional way of dealing with Latin
American policemen, but it was an object lesson I never forgot.
There now arrived from Washington a long dispatch from Beetle
Smith addressed jointly to the OSO station chief and to my self. The
two stations were to be merged. and the overall station chief would
succeed the OSO incumbent. I was named deputy. I accepted the
change with what good grace I could muster, but asked that I be
reassigned. Not long thereafter the new station chief arrived and
within three months my replacement reported to the embassy.
Before departing, Dorothy and I were remarried in her Catholic
faith and our daughters baptized as Catholics. For as long as I could I
kept this intelligence from my parents, for I knew that it would

‘inevitably produce ill feeling. Then, after a month of farewell parties -

and making last-minute purchases and packing, we saw our lift van
trucked away and were driven by friends to the airport.

From there we flew to Florida, where we vacationed in a cottage
givenus by Dorothy's mother. Toward the end of my leave I went to
Washington to find a house and receive word of my next assignment.
IE was to spend a year or so at headquarters, I was told, as chief of

covert operations for an area of the world with which I had had no -

prior experience whatever: the Balkans.

83

 

 

 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
     

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
74-0000

  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
 

 

 

     

 

 

    
   
     

  

files afimy station.) W ith6ut viding his predecessor's confidence, I

tald the new police chi + that froin my own files I would be happy at
any time to supply hinAwith information on any individual of interest
ty his department. . \
While at a country club dance I learned from the embassy watch
Slicer that my father had died, and {departed early next morning to
van my mother i Albany and make’ funeral arrangements in Ham-
cet He was buried in the Hunt chmetery plot beside my infant
‘iether and Twas granted a week's leave to help my mother settle

\erheat 200

. “ ' .
to. : During his frst few months, however, Woodward frequently
ta- expressed astanishment at the breadth and depth of my contacts .
tro , across the country, and as a straight Foreign Service type he re- 415
ed, ‘ sented my progress, feeling that CIA officers should, somehow, be
: relegated to the back room, with only legitimate FSOs allowed any”
ery 4 personal contact in the host country. Although I could not have |
wrO- disagreed more, I'did my best to maintain working relations with
lin him, though I was not always successful.
sico . Just before national elections the embassy predicted another
nist a Colorado win and officially discounted the challenge of Nardone and
tive his Ruralista-Blanco supporters. But for the first time in nearly a
ited , _ century the Colorados were defeated, and at that night's victory
kha party tendered Nardone by his enthusiasts, Twas the lone American
rhe invited from the embassy: And it galled Woodward that though he
ers. was obliged to meet the incoming President before inauguration, he -
assi- was forced to arrange the introduction through me, for no other
erae embassy officer was on speaking, much less social, terms with the
fine oo President-elect. After inauguration Nardone replaced the chief of.
ome. . police, but I gersuaded him to maintain the chief of military intelli-
now - gence as the best available man for the job. . °
nel's : The new police chief was an Army colonel who knew nothing
end- oe about police work and less about intelligence. But he was loyal to
wedof ae Nardone, and because "L was obviously a favorite of the new: —
F the a President's, he gave me full cooperation, SUPE” I took him on an
ind I “4 inspection of our clandestine! he new police chief
Vand 4 sas astounded to find
‘ife. ‘ 2 Later he told ma his predecessor had either carried off or |
bert ; destroy ed the card files @ alf known subversives i: Uruguay. (Actu-
“al ex- ally, when I heard the tae to be destroyed, Lasked permission
. Rica. tu photocopy them heforethe cards were destroyed by the outgoing
- /¥oad- police chief. These photgcopies had since been integrated into the

    
     
      
   
     
     
 
     
    
     
 

bp-nLal of

 

 
 
  
 

7 to cA
ee Mer Aprtra
a Z ete

 

OPCHE (CL,

   

: G
ACA 1.0 Cp
0) Not Reproduce

c
 

 

 

    

Jatod aaitiod Cima ham

 

Bureau target. [agreed in principle, but reminded the ambassador
that CIA had no arrest powers whatever, foreign or domestic. I was

80 embarrassed, of course, that CIA had not known of Greenglass’

>
Rd
~

i

presence, much less the instructions given him by Soviet Intelli-
gence. an

Twenty years later I was to learn that what the Bureau had done to
Greenglass, they did routinely to fugitives they were able to locate
abroad. ; ; .

Thad not taken part in a surreptitious-entry operation since
Sparrow U1 burglarized the office of the Italian consul in Shanghai
and photographed his lists of Nazi and Soviet agents in China. That
entry had been hardly surreptitious, with uniformed men piling out

~ 4X) ofjeeps and bursting into the consulate, where we set upa Recordak

camera and photographed records for many hours, hardly caring
whether the consul appeared or not. :

fhe mhassy in Mexico City was located two blocks
from the’American Embassy in an apartment building. From our
CIA offices we had a direct line of sight to the front windows of the
embassy, which were on the third floor of the apartment building.
According to prescribed form, we cased the target office and
mounted round-the-clock surveillance on the principal embassy
officers. With the concurrence of the National Security Agency. a
date was fixed for surreptitious entry, and a week or so before that
date a team of CIA safecrackers arrived in town. These highly skilled
men were part of a small cadre of specialists that traveled, and
perhaps still travel, for entry operations in different parts of the .
world. , .

       
 
 

hassy offices and placed a microphone in the ambassadors office
from which could be heard conversations relayed to an
apartment—the Listening Post—we had rented one floor above.
The microphone installation supplemented telephone taps which
had been active for some time. Several station cars were equipped
with mobile transceivers that operated on frequencies not normally
utilized in Mexico. We had a floor plan of the offices, a description of:
the safe, and a putty imprint of its keyhole. The charwoman pro-
vided us with a key to the embassy service door, and we duplicated
it. Now we were ready to move.

A Friday night had been selected for the first entry attempt, for,
according to their pattern, thd fe their offices early
Ota teste IS,

We recruited the charwoman who cleaned th m--

 

Friday afternoon and
With the aid of bino:
-- could be seen from m
: ys ofany movement >

the offices that Frida
or apartments and ¢
eleven that night su
asleep and the rema
phone call was plac
pickup mike we coul
The word was Go.
Using the duplic
target premises and
_the microphone we
did not really need

Gould héar their co

. The operating p
operations I partici
black muslin, to el
seen outside the er
Meanwhile, in +
drinking teguila a:
begun his cultival
Above, the entr:
kevhole and, whe
sturdy duplicate k
‘ing device was ap;
example, the tick
As soon as the
taken of the conte
to the photograp!
original position.
team set up aC
photography. Flc
‘cal system, and {
safe were photos
Inside an inn:
American curre))
completed, the |
in reverse order,
     

[toeorosctozra),

   
  
 
   
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
       
 
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   

.

Thad access to the pages of Mexico's most respected newspapers,
penetrations of the Communist Party of Mexico and the Trotskyite
offshoot and two organizations that could accomplish medium-size 73 .
public demonstrations on call.

From time to time our Mexican agents disrupted Communist
meetings held indoors with CIA-manufactured stink bombs and
itching powder. One such disturbance took place during the well-
attended recantation speech of Communist artist Diego Rivera.

At my request Joe Bryan lent me an artist who spent a month at |
the station and turned out enough poster designs so that for several.
months a different anti-Communist poster appeared on the walls of
Mexico City each week. These poster campaigns did much to
awaken Mexican public consciousness to the menace of interna-
tional Communism and appeared under the aegis of an organization
headed by a Mexican of unimpeachable reputation.

A long letter from Bob and Maxine North in Bangkok informed
me that Bob’s cover work was to establish a Thai film industry, erect
a modern studio and produce a lengthy film reenactment of an epic .
‘Thai legend. For her part, Maxine was learning Thai and improving
her already first-rate golf game. En route Washington for consulta-
tion, Bob spent a few days with me in Mexico City, where we
planned a complicated operation designed to discredit a prominent
Mexican Communist. The operation required critical timing and a
good deal of work by the printing services section of CIA’s Technical
Services Division. :

The Mexican Communist leader was then visiting Peking. On the
day of his departure Bob North airmailed me a copy ofthe English
languag Aimouncing his departure, sendiyig a dupli- -
cate Copy to CIA headquarters. To replace the departure an-
-nouncement I fabricated a story in which the Mexican/Communist
was quoted as deprecating fellow Mexicans and saying,among other
things, that Mexican peasants could never hope to achieve the
cultural level of the superior Chinese. I cabled thé fabrication to

headquarters, where a special type font had beenjmade by repro-
ducing samples from th My fabricated story was set.

in this duplicate type and the entire front page of th e-created
hy technical means. A dozen copies were pouched to me and were
received before the target Communist returned to Mexico. fag
_ The fabricated newspapers were made/ available to <agent- A
journalists who published facsimiles of the joffensive interview to-

  
 

  

a fwas
nglass"

ntelli-

one to
locate

since
inghai
. That
tgout
ordak
aring

locks
‘our |
ifthe
ding.
and
missy
cy a
that
illed
and
“the |
nel
Em- -
fice
an
ave.
lich
ped .
ally
nof
vwo-

ted

or,
rly

wssador ”

_ asleep and the remaining few

 

Friday afternoon and did not return until Monday at midmorning.
With the aid of binoculars, the interior of the ambassador's office

could be seen from my office, the planted microphone would inform 31

us of any movement within thejtarget, and as each staff member left
the offices that Friday afternoon, they were followed to their homes
or apartments and continuing surveillance established. By about
eleven that night surveillance reported most of the staf members
counted for. A precautionary tele-
phone call was placed to th mbassy; through the
pickup mike we could hear it ring repeate ly, but no one answered.
The word was Go.

Using the duplicate key, the entry team gained access to the

   

‘target premises and reported the location dark and quiet. Through

the microphone we could hear them moving quietly around. They
did not really need to transmit to us on their walkie-talkies, for we
could hear their conversations perfectly well. -

‘The operating procedure followed in this and all other entry’

, operations I participated in was to caver ¢ all windows with opaque

black muslin, to eliminate the possibility of team flashlights being
seen outside the embassy, then the team went to work on the safe.

Meanwhile, in the basement below, the night watchman was
drinking tequila and playing cards with one of our agents whe had
begun his cultivation a month earlier.

Above, the entry team forced a soft metal compound into the safe ~
keyhole and, when the compound hardened, used it to make a —
sturdy duplicate key. Before opening the safe, an amplifying listen-
ing device was applied to the keyhole to detect such sounds as, for -
example, the ticking of a time lock or a boohy-trap bomb.

As soon as the safe duor was. open, a Polaroid photograph was
taken of the contents and developed on the spot. Later, by referring
to the photograph, everything in the safe could be replaced in its

- original position. In a small room off the ambassador's affice the

team ‘set up a camera ‘specially designed by CIA for document
photography. Floodlights were plugged into the embassy’s electri- ©
cal system, and for the next three hours the entire contents of the
safle were photographed.

’ Inside an inner drawer the team found more than $30,000 in
American currency but were ordered to leave it there. Photography
completed, the team packed up and withdrew from the target area .
in reverse order, removing the blackout drapes just before they left.

  

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
ve pA Rr ee

   

 
     

. Before/dawn the entry team had flown from Mexico to Dallas,

where fhey changed identities and flew to Washington. Pouched

82 separafely was the photographic record of their night-long work.

~~ The ghde-book film was sent at once to NSA, and the rest of the

filmed! documents were examined at leisure by interested sections of

he Mexico City station received lists of Mexicans whom

Embassy had subverted, as well as the names of

prominent Mexicans still on their target lists. Of equal importance

were ambassadorial notes covering his efforts to purchase arms and

‘munitions in Mexico, a physical description of the ambassador's

Soviet Embassy contact and a number of profiles in which the
ambassador appraised senior officials of the American Embassy.

If we were able to burglarize at will, we were also vulnerable to
Mexican burglars.

An FBI agent and his wife, asleep in their bed, were chloroformed
and their dog killed while burglars removed everything from their
home witha moving van. My own home had been entered twice and
looted. We lost my wife's jewelry, my typewriter, assorted sterling
silver, a radio and other valuables. All these effects were insured,
bat Dorothy and I preferred to wait, hoping the Mexican police
would produce, at least, her jewelry.

A distinctive sapphire earring of my wife's had been dropped by
the second set of burglars, and with it to go on, its mate was located
in the Thieves Market downtown. Spurred on by the urgings of the
legal attaché and myself, Mexican detectives called daily at my

4 home, assuring me they were following all leads intensively,
4 Moreover, the insurance company had offered a large reward for the
3 return of our stolen valuables.

Presently Iwas summoned to Mexican police headquarters and a
strongbox opened for my inspection. In it was most of my wife's
‘ missing jewelry. [identified it as such, but to my surprise saw the
P strongbox closed, locked and removed. The jewels were needed for

evidence, the detective told me; otherwise the thieves would go
: unprosecuted. .

Twas much less interested in a thief's prosecution than in the
recovery of my wife's valuables, many of which were family heir-
looms. Tconsulted with the insurers, who indicated that the jewels ©
would be released to me as soon as the reward was paid. After this
was done, I was again summoned to police headquarters and again
permitted to see my wife's possessions. This time I expected to take

 

 

them with me, but n

« number of men and n

; suggested an addition:
: sumatlready paid hirn
” it was quite enough. '
what figure he had in
of scotch would do ni
shooting him, but ba
ward, the detective c
the strongbox to me
knew, he would be a
the black market.

Thad been slow to
American policemen
There now arrivec

~~ Smithaddressed joi:

two stations were to
succeed the OSO in:
change with what g:
reassigned. Not Jon.
within three month
Before departing,
faith and our daught:
kept this intelligen:
inevitably produce i
and making last-mit
‘trucked away and
From there we flr
given us by Dorothy
Washington to find ;

I was to spend a ye
covert operations fc
prior experience w
