104-10221-10210 .

 

 

Mit 2-192

: NORRIS said he would report to the FBI any
,  infermaticon coming. te his attention sbout subject's
nn "activities but deubted he would have euch infermation
a _ ' gince subject nevar dis: aased things with him,

: Gn" August ‘L, 1960, MM T-1, wh has knowledge : .
1 of beth pre=CASIRO soa aant- CASTRO activicles in the
Miami area, advised that. Cuban exile ANSELMO ALLIEGRO, 7 ic
Jk. recenthy wea to the heme cf subject. in an effort.
t5 obtain oné cf the uniforms subject and FEDRO. DIAZ
aN accumularad” daring: the Spricg 1960 when they were
. attempting ta crganize an expedition egaiast CASTRO. —
Ascording to informant, subject told ALLLEGRO hé no
longer hag the unlfsms, indicated that DIAZ LANZ 2
had. taken all cf them and ala> indicated there had been an
some wlsunderstanding betwaen him and DIAZ LANZ. °°
The informant could ach be were specifie about his
‘misunderstanding.

 
104-10221-10210 a

ee mm cbt ee

‘UNITED STATES ‘DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE”

 

FEDERAL BUKEAU OF INVESTIGATION,

      

In Reply, Pee Birt SO es ya / ee ee .

  

 

= of Fila Nos” .
i 2 eo . 2. }
a 2-192. ss Mitamih, Florida
: if . Pa 18, 1fho-. ‘
Pee _ FRANK soot renee a
GE : | Reference ts made te ‘repert of $A RICHARD. B.

Rowe, RELLOGG, dared. end captioned ag above.

the inferwant utilized in that report has.
furnished raliable. infermation in ‘the past.

“PROPERTY OF VAI - - Tata memorandum is loaned
fe yoat by ‘the FAY, and neithet. Lt-nor its contents
po ars ao be diatrituned cutside the agency te which
= - loaned.

 

 
104-10221-10210

 

 

Me 2-192

Ga August 4, 1960, TYLER C, WIMION, Speclal
Details Officer, U, S, Border Patrol, Miami, advised.
that a source of that office, who has furnished reliable
Anformarion in the past concerning the activitiéa of
subject, recently advised that subject had been, to his
knowledge, Lnaactivé in the antl-CASTRO field siace nis
effort in conjunction with former head of the Cuban

_ Revolutionary Air Fores, PEDRO DIAZ LANZ, to organize
“an gxpedition against Cuba th May, 1959.

"On August 5, 1960, RAYMOND JULIUS NogRrs,
16 Nerthvesr 19th Avenue, Apartment 5, Mlewl, Florida,
advised SA RICHARD 8, XELLCGG he wag formerly fron —
Notfolk, Virginia, and moved tc Miami, Florida, in July,
1957, He said he first wet subject 4n 1951 or 1952 when .

“they sarvsd together in che Merchant Marines duriag the
‘Korean conflict: He sald he say very little of subject

 

from 1952 to 1954, that ue worked with hia fer .the North

- american Assuranea Sectecy in Norfolk during 1954 and

1955 afd saw subjece quice often when subject operated
the White Hat Tavern in Norfolk. -

NORRIS said during 1957 nubjecc seemed. to take
an interest in the political problems of Cuba, read .

-B.
104-10221-10210

~ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992 .
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53217-6/20/17

 

Ppa (Rav, 949-999

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:
” " FEOERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

: 1. - : INS, Miami RM .
l1-v. 3. Border’ Patrol, Miamt RM
1-vU, 8. Customs, Miami RM :

   

 

Copy tor

2 feotsh RICHARD B. KELLOGG. =-Ssomen, Miami, Florida

77 Bee hey . .
+ Pleld Office Fite 41 Miomt 2-192. we Butwau Pile #241499" oo
re “FRANK. ANTHONY smviets we , : —

Chorecten REGISTRATION ACT ~ cua

Syren Subject! 8 pilot's certificate hag baen revoked by FAA
and his appeal of the order expatriating him ig still
‘pending. Ong -source atated subject has been inactive--
in anti-CASTRO matters recently and snother sald sub~
ject indicated hé had hada misunderstanding with PEDRO
_DIAZ LANZ, acquaintance of subject.’ Said subject hag
net discussed his activities with him but did say
cecently thare aré too wany groups and ideas working
agadinet Cuban Premier FIDEL CASTRO.

~Ppe-

, DETAILS; By letter dated July 1, 1960, the United States
Deparrment of Justice advised that a teview of materlal
submitted to thar depat ment by the Federal Aviation
Agency regarding subject! 8 application for ‘registration of
aircraft indicated the facts ‘in that matter were not suf-
ficient-to warrant prosecution of subject under Title 18,
U. 3. Code, Section 1001 (Submission of Falae Documents).

e

 

te the grogerty sf the FBI and ta loaned to

 

atices ace veacissicns ef the PR
Miatibsted cteite your agent

we Ly

This darvment ocatging aetthe: tecom
Yoes agency; it und tts cvare! ar

   

 
104-10221-10210

 

mete *

what he could about it, but to “yorers' knowledge had.
no, first-hand knowledge: concerning it at-that cima,
‘He said when he came to Miamt in July, 1957, subject
‘gave him an address, which supposedly had to .do with
. Cuban evolutionary Activities, and requested that. .
- NORRIS have people contact him there about. jointing hin..
NORRIS said the address turned cut to-be'a vacant lot.
Hacould only recall that the ‘address was supposed: 80.
be. that of a woman whose husband had been killed in
Cuba and NORRIS believed subfect gat the addreas from

a newspaper,

NORRIS said: ‘around August or September, 1957,
he saw-subject in Miami fer a few minutes and subject
asked about Kia contact at the above addraga’ and he
told subject at was a vacant lot. He said he did not
know what subject was doing in Florida-ac that tims
or how long he stayed.

NORRIS said he did nct sea aubject again
until the Spring, 1959, although he réad of subject's
: eaploits in ‘the newspapers. Ha sald whea he did see
subject, subject wa3 in civilian clothes and with aa
unknown Cuban an sey, Calked briefly but only about
old times arid nothing ‘about gubject’s activities. He :
said he did not see subject after that until after
ee _ reading sbout. subject's break with CASTRO and his .
= . leafiet-dropping flight with PEDRO DIAZ LANZ., Ha said
“he’has.seenihim possibly four or five times alace then,
: NORRES said ha- a bad hearc condition and dome of
. those visits werd aick calls on tha part of subjact,
and en other. eecastoas thay have only diacussed gonaral
matters” ‘and net subjacc's specific activities,

a § «

 

 
 

 
104-10221-10210

 

ne

: ee NORRIS said subject. has never mentioned ‘to
i whim the fcrmation of. acy expedition against CASTRO-
or thé obtaining of equipment: fer same and has never
asked ht engage. ia any duch activities as he
_- knows: any“exerticn en his, NORRIS’, part would be
- fatal to him dus to his heart conditien, NORRIS catd-
she had jokingly spskea ty» subject: concerning subject's
exploits as: reperted. in ‘the newspapers but aubjace ©
“only. passes Lt eff-witheut comment, He said only’a
few wecks aga be jckingly taid aubject be thought
Subject weald be in Cubs by new and subject merely .
said something to the effect that there ara-teo many
different greups cr ideas weotking against CASTRO,

 

mo NORRIS said he knows nethieg of any attempt
by subjece te organize serivitiea against the Govern
ment of Cuba, te recruit parsong fer such activities.
or ebtale material fer auch activizias other than
‘what hag heen teperted in the newspaper,

_.-  §M@8RTS sata aubject ance gave him a. catd
bearlag subtect's nama and the nsma of the Inters
Amerita Bugingsa Corperastion. fle gala subject later
indicated to Etim a dasite. to eet up an impers-expert:

business betwaen Cuba-and the United States after -
CASTRO is.qvaned fred Cuba, which busineza waa to
handle appitances, estsomebile parts and the Lika,
NORRIS said he suppeasa that was the enly reascn for
tha formation éf tha cerperetion, Ha said he imew of
no other raasen she cerperation end had nc 1afermae
tien thar the ; {en was in any maanar aggociated
with ancl-CASTRG activities,

     

id

  
 

     
   

«hw»

we
x

 
