 

 

 

Boe Rebe TD
==

De et. 2 furnish 1 G-54 ana aren 3n stenthy eaoeaiiy until
further notdas. Staniby capeclty is heroin defined as espabibity to
Booition the eiscratt at any yort of catey da east, smh or anithyest:
Wo S. fram Easton to Los fugeles wlthin 25 heure. .

EB. Aéseuriug the subjeets will be released dn Havana or Mexico
City, Bet, L wi pregere mission foliiers fer Flights frca ecat
. provebls porte of entry 4 te Isolation emd Avdrews éiv Forte Base.

7.
[rxcasp t scum |
Distetoution: :
Ordg. & 2 = OF Stax?
3 - 0S

Sad Ud US be Oo do ts Go
 )
SH OI OF
g

 
 

 

 

 

iomntntt alerted

 

.

é 3.

i, Rear aut that RELRASE

Se

EGG

Request for bilesk tre

  

2. Pors af entry.
ay

3. Date, Losal time, ad aint:

 

h, Dasired destingileon.

@ 2c plemented.

. Other vemuirzeents, de., otvetehers ar bunks dz the event
‘ee ? E . :

are bowpitel cares.

6. Name, organization ena selephona muster of esqueating varty. ©

J. Name and telephone nuchber of RUBERK Gontests et Loating
and off-ioniing points. . : me ,

Tae Soltowing pergonnel ere unsuleageanie ond sharged

respoosibility of avbiveting thie Sler:

2. Major Richer’. f. 8: Lanes, 20/8SD/T! s/o
Organigation: A: norte Divisio, w/P
Home Pheme: 3

_ Ofiee Phone: Sterile Kevars 2B Bucy
Earveusd ces 52, 765h, 72
Rol Taeze 1558

    
  

eT

2. Ms. Robert Mecrevo

Orgsnisation: iz Saryort Risis foa, ob/P.
Hone Phome: TA 4-3 7
Offsee Faene: Gare as 2.

 
 

3. Magor Billy 4. Caushell, Comender Pete I.

 

3, EE 3-055

Organization: Bes. 1, We5th Cyz tonal Byalow ian anil .
Di
Traiving Crem, Eghiv Ady Forte Base, Floridy. .

Howe Phone: 652737

Offee Phone: Eglin Air Fores Beas, Florida -631590

fear, Debs Je

  

: >a
Heo Est Pea en?

Slomel Braluetion and

 
14-0000q> .

romeo =

 

 

 

. ae Fo Ott

 

   

  

RELELSS cont: ERC EGY OL

‘CHART. OR AS RES

 

 

 

Beeblorab wor

 

   
   
    
 
 

Lec. 2 LOYS th opera
rppeli, Tomcns

  

Tanini 1
R. Texansxy (a2

tS

 

Cuban abnor ian year

cat. EPforts are: z { aay 2 thate cel

ae easur witheat act ; ah hy : fe. Hew
Gand ; “wewieo Cz i : 2%

contd rgemty plex

eupleyess.

 

   
  

 

   
  
  
  
 

Tae2
thik Papas 2 On
evicd sinet
have crea :
wadat at,
trek eed

tle.

Se é

ro ie

   

Pa
Ee

Seppe

  

gb ke

 

 

6594
 

 

 

 

 

over the whole situation and deter

 

 

 

 

 

re

cf the thinness of the cover, itis uncertain w whether this wall succeed,

  

‘ll, A cleare ed and wi tting law firm in ‘New 3 York has be en bria

by Mr. L. Houston on the situation with the: thought th + inquiries Ls
seceived by the cover company could be referred to the firm of”
lawyers from whom no comment would be obtained by the press or
: other inguirers. . The law firm has been briefed on the éntire situa
tien.so that + they may’ be in <s esition to > act hoa any action by them
appears

of any, kind can be obtained from t the law

  
  
  
 
  
       
   

     

 

 

   
  
     
 
 
     

is a bachelor p e
His-father, a. Sook i in a diner in the ‘Bostan. ar

by the Gffice of Security, and he will get in touch with Secur rity; if
he zeceives any inguiries on this matter, Security, by the same --
token, will keep in touch with him as the Cubans reveal their inten-.-
tions and course of action. . ot : , : re

 

   

’
t
vie
t

     

43, The wives of the cther two technic i

 

stakiers and theix wives who have been b riefed o on the situation, A!» ~

problems on which the Ageacy coul
the wives are telling their neighboz: Ss
trip. This story will be adjusted dz hat course of action.
the Cuban Government tekes, whathe ner es remain unbroken .
‘and whe ther recognizable photograp phs of the. individuals are released -
‘to the” press.” ‘The two wives so faz have taken 7
well... 7 oe

 
     

  

    

   

 

Distribution: Co
-DCL~2 wo3
DDCI - 1 ‘ BE}
DD/P -~1 OS - 2
SOPs - 1 St-i

 
14-00000 _

re ne 20 Septerher 1955 -
NEMORAY DUM Re [ST SOALADE ,

' resord

There is a folder of sensitive non-<5/ material pertaining to this .
operation, retired under Black Tage wrapping, Job #57-86/78, restricted

to Offices of DCL, DDII, DBP, G/uH, o/wi/PL, o/iin/s, c/et, 3/TSD, Director

 

of Security and General Counsel. china Operations 3 as not cited as: an.
originator, addressee, or info resipient of any of tnd sensitive | a - Le oe
material..

WH/RMO

   

 
14-00000

   

      

: : Ih May 1959, the New ine we Agency aca) opex
van office i in Havana i in the El Medico Building which i is. occupied
_ partly t by, business concern and partly.used. fo: sidential. apa
“ments. Shortly t éreafter, thé Havana stae’ fon ‘obtained ‘the cone
currence of Ambassador Bonsal and Miss Garolyn O, Stacey, an :
Embassy employee,-to mount an audio operation against NCNA through-
the wall of the adjacent apartment in which Mies Stacey lived, - In
November 1959, the FE Division sent one case officer and one TSD :
technician to Havana; and the installation of a microphone and tape
“Fecorder was completed in Miss Stacey's apartment on 29 November .

     

 
 
 

    
    

 

 

     

    
 
  
  
  
  

 

       

Pky By Fine i980, it bad become evident that two of
occupil ad by NCNA possibly: thowsed- co:
were used for conferences. At that
case officer, tere i imprevia
the operation, Heé 5 managed to lease an. apar tment directly over thes
NGNA’ ofiice and arranged for a stay abe

     

     

     
     

 

 
          
 

 

7 3. ta August. 1960, ‘a team of three TSD technicians who were
_ in Havana on a separate SR Division operation agreed to install the...
ces additional equipment required for the NCNA operation, A second FE.
/ ‘Division. case officer, Robert Neet, came down to Havana; and he,
together ‘with the technicians, installed aaahen microphone and tape |

 

 

ae ' vacorder in the apartment obtained dy| over the NCNA offices, *
ae About this time the equipment was removed from Miss Stecey'a =~. .- .
apartment, with the excepotion of the plastic probe which was left - «

 

3

in the wall and plastered over.

i
pee

 
 

 

 

MEMO FOR FILE

SUBJECT C : OTS (late TSD) and Jim McCord's Cuban Activities:
Te Ben Colling “phoned to say that one of the fellows in jail.

is still around, and after he got out he Anguired around and got no

indication that McCord was even involved, ‘Hone of the other OTS people

have any recollection of McCord's involvement,

 

2. I said that Iwas sure that the man who was rolled up -

night not have any idea gf NeCord's invotvenent, if indeed he vas -

involved. If McCord'!s involvelenent uas merely headquarters plannige

and no releasing operation was ever undertaken his role might never

‘surfaces However, we had been told that planning-did involve. "SD

people at ‘the time, along with Pecuritys For instance, I mew that
the Security man with TSD at the time had a job of hand-holding with

the families of the thrse ‘men; there nay be some TSD record of that.

which would lead to someone who would knows : ;
Be Gol-ling was pulled out of a staff meeting to talk to me » and _ :
said he would call back later. :

SDB

“RETURNTO cA.
Background vod Only

Do Not Rep!

51
14-00000

 

4, As an additional security precaution to provide a safe
haven, and after consultation with the Acting Chief of Station, akey_
to an apartment in the same building 2 eased by Mrs, Mazjorie :
Lennox, an Embassy 6 secretar y, was obtained, Mrs, Lennox was .
told that access to her apartment: was 2 esded for Photographic” -_
surveillance’ purposes..

 

  

     
    
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  

 

and ee ies ‘would work against ‘holding indefinitely the lease to.
the apartment over-NONA since the owners of the building were
_cancelling sub-lessors' contracts ‘and recalling leases. Ii was,
therefore, decided to install transmitters and switches in order to
perrait ecntinued monitoring of the target irom ‘a distant listenin
post, “Another: three-man teara of TSD technicians “consisting | 9
David L, Christ {alias Carswell), Walter E,. Szuminski {Bias
Taransky} and Thornton J. ‘Anderson jalias ‘Danbrent} documented:
as tourists had been sent to Havana to install audio equipment in the
Chinese Nationalist Embassy before it was due to be turned over to te
he Chinese Communists. This operation aborted, . This team was ..: -)
then sent to work on the installation of the transmitie xs inthe apart. _
ment over the NCNA oifice. : ‘:

     

6. At 2400 hours on 14 September, Christ, who with the

other technicians was working in the target apartment, falled to keer

scheduled appointment with Neet. At 0199 hours on the 15th of © -
eptembar, the apartment of Mrs, Lennox was entered into and. ~

earched by Cuban authorities, and. she was teken into custody, Ab

on0 hours'on 15 September,’ Neat, # he stay-bebi ind agent ‘and | his wife-

rer = Picked up by the’ Cuban, authorities and detained, :

 

 

   

    

: _ As of teday the agent remains inthe cust stody of the Cuban’:
- authorities, His wife bas been released and is still in Havana, .Neet
was released.1715 hours 16 Sertember and has subsequently = return ned.
to Washington where he is being debrisfed.... Mrs. - Lennox w: re
subsequently released and has also returned to Washington where she
is being debriefed, The three TED technicians remain in confinement,”
They have been seen in confinement but not contacted by an Embassy
- officer when ha first attempted to secure the release of Mrs. Lennox,
' ‘Christ was last seen by Nest when they were jotatly interrogated
the morning of 15 September. At that time Christ d

  
14-00000

 

 

press article adds that the key to Mrs. Lennox's apar rtment was

‘employees. It ds unclear‘at present wh.
upon by. the technicigns and station pessemnel to. be used in thé even

: indicated that Neet was ‘his boss, | and Neet consistently Geni
. knowledge as-t

behind agent with, the original | leage being in fhe.name’ “of

BE Division. Case Officer. tae

be charged with espionage "against the people ef China... Subsequent |

: Hugh. Kessler to. ‘contact the three men at 1730. hours on 17-September |

: New York and the third, on

. leaving: ‘Cuba 23 tourists since the filling out of the landing card -

  
 
 
 
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
 
   
    

to have been maltreated. :

  

; 8 “According to articies in the éuban papers the three
technicians were arrested. while in the apar vtment over the NCN:
office and completing the ‘tastallation of the equipment, The --

 

found on one ‘of. the ‘technicians “who ‘identified th the apar tment.to-
which it belonged, “AL Cuban” pr asa releases have referred to ‘ths
men by alias arid. have net.identified them as Government or Age:
ptor y had been: ‘aoreed

 

 

   

they - were “‘paught , ‘(While being interrogated with Neet, ‘Christ

 

  

y: she was. heing, held.}: "The: sub-lease ‘for’ the!

 

. apartment in which the men were caught is in the name ‘of = rs

  

 

    
 

iY Initial information indicated that. the:three technicians would

preas releases have been unclear on this point. An attempt by Consul

           
   
      
           
 
  
 

was unsuccessful, He was not’ ‘permit
they were in custody, cord

them but was told

  

tted to ses

 

  

; “Tre three technicians travelled to Cubs as 5 ts azists. under...
vary tight commercial cover, two.of them working tox a. company 4 in:
2in Baltimore, in eack ‘case'the cove

   

   

   

door: “Tele phone’ messages: and znail are pitke periodically by 2
Agency contract employee, The men were provided with this ‘cover:
as well as unbackstooped home addresses for use when entering or.

 

requires this information. Subsequent to their detention the home”
addresses have been partially backstopped so. that inquiries will
indicate that someone with this alias name had lived in the apartment
suse in question. Insofar as the cover companies are concerned,
fforts are being made to provide a backstop to withstand inguiries -.
rom the press shouid the Cubans reveal this information. In view |

@ gE

br
