6. If you concur with the attached records schedule item and the
substance of the above,. I suggest that both be coordinated with the
other interested parties throughout the Agency. If no significant
problems are found, I will then see.that the new item is submitted to
NARS.

' ZMh Yo

ee R. We

 
 

104-10406-10010

+ Os. Oo "21 November 1979.

MEMORANDUM FOR: George Frates-
Chief, Records Systems Branch, RMD

FROM : Jon E. Wolfe, RSB

SUBJECT : Status of Records Related to the HSCA Investigation

1. Attached for your perusal is the draft of an item scheduling
the CIA's HSCA-related records. I suggest that this item be added to
the OLC records control schedule (as a restricted item) and submitted to
‘NARS for formal disposition approval. (Col. Tagge of NARS has reviewed
the draft item and its disposition and is in basic agreement.)

2. You will note that the proposed item addresses both film and
paper records. The film duplicates those records which must be returned
to their original locations. All other records, such as those which -
have already been duplicated on paper and those which were generated as
the result of the investigation will not be filmed.

o> 3. Filming is currently underway in the DDO and is being done by
Go emoronrie I believe, a new location on the sixth floor. The
is not only filming and verifying its own files but also those of
the Office of Personnel. One estimate I have heard is that it will
require the DDO about one year to complete the job.

4, Filming is also either underway or being planned in the Office
of Security. This process will be overseen by Jack Sullivan. The only
other film we have consists of DDS&T footage on the U-2. I have been
told that the latter is probably part of a permanent record series. If
it is, I suggest that it not be duplicated but rather cross-referenced
in our deposit. :

5. Records that will be retired as paper are located in NFAC,
DDO, and OLC. I suggest that each of the holding components be respon-
sible for boxing, shelf listing, and sealing their respective records
and that all be retired under one job number. I further suggest that
once we are in our new vaulted area (sometime in December?) that we
serve as the focal point for collecting and depositing these records.

 
MATERIAL HELD BY CIA RELATING TO THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON
ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIONS

Consists of all substantive documents and other materials created
or reviewed as the result of inquiries made of the CIA by the House
Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) during its investigations into
the deaths of President Kennedy and Martin Luther King. The collection

includes all CIA files requested for review, documents generated by the .-

HSCA as the result of its reviews, correspondence exchanged between the
CIA and the HSCA, and pertinent supporting documentation. The bulk of
the collection consists of CIA files reviewed by the Committee and is
primarily in the form of 16mm roll film produced, stored, and inspected
in accordance with existing Federal standards for archival microfilm.
The microfilming was done in those instances when it: was necessary to
return the paper files to their original locations. (Each paper file
microfilmed will be maintained or disposed of in accordance with NARS

approved records control schedules covering the record series of which
the file is a part.)

a. Silver original 16mm microfilm which will be
stored & inspected in accordance with FPMR 101-11.506.

..b. Supporting textual records not contained in (a) above.

DISPOSITION: Permanent. Records to be retained by the Agency Archives.

Not to be opened without the approval of the Legislative and General
Counseis.

 
