 

On November 29th Alabama's Lieutenant Governor elect Jere L.
Beasley addressed the United Klans national "klonvokation" in
Birmingham, Alabama and U.S. Senator James B, Allen in a telegram,
-. expressing regret at his inability to attend because of his wife's ‘*
illness, pledged his ‘continued fight against the "Federal bureaucracy. "

  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
  

In early January, ‘the Florida Klan (affiliated with the, U.S. Klan)
‘conducted a vigorous orgunizing campaign in the Tampa area. * Grand ~
Dragon John Paul Rogers, seeking to eradicate the night riders' ter-
rorist image, described the Klan as a "Christian Crusade dedicated to
. honoring the American flag, revering the Bible, destroying Communism,"
- and "upholding White supremacy." Rogers boasts that "within a few

years we'll be so strong that without. our endorsement , no ) candidate “
“. will ‘stand a chance," . : cen oe ot

Be Minutemen Minutiae

  

we, ‘With ‘the | sur acing in a Washington, ‘D. Cc. “last December of AG year
. old George Van N self-described East Coast leader of the Minute- .
men, it became apparent that a split in the once monolithic Minute- ~ |
“man organization was in the making. Never more than 5000 strong .
. nationally (present total membership is believed to number 200) the i
_ organization was run by founder Robert DePugh with an iron hand, and
card carrying members throughout the country were boyal to him. For.
-the past few years DePugh has had troubles with Federal authoritics,
und for 17 months was a fugitive from justice.. Taken into custody .
by Federal agents in July 1969, DePugh was ultimately tried, convicted
..and on October 9, 1970 sentenced to nine concurrent Federal prison

- terms of 10 years each on nine counts of violating Federal firearms «. .
regulations. a elk, . .

 

 

 

"Van ‘Ness, ina s Hyattsville, Maryland’ news - conference , declared .
‘that the Minutemen would henceforth _be independent of DePugh, and that
he would be the liaison between. the membership, which he said would .
_ remain underground, and the general public. Van.Ness declared that:
_.the organization still was preparing to thwart a Communist takeover;”
that paramilitary maneuvers “in the mountains" were still an integral”
part of their training regimen; and secreted away for future use was —-
ammunition, two mobile field hospitals, four communications vehicles, .~
. and machinery for an “intelligence network." The new Minutemen credo -
*. will avow their belief in white supremacy, with blacks and Jews put.
- on notice that they would have to earn the right to equality.

| Van Ness? Minutemen organization is in opposition to the apparatus
i left behind by DePugh to carry on until his ultimate release from.

| prison. Spokesman for the still loyal to DePugh faction is 25 year old
- Bubert Taylor, a member of the ning man Minutemen -Bxocut ive Gouncil and
t

i

|

editor of On Target, Che oficial pukiication, with a ciaimod distribu
‘ tion of 40,000: ; . ; , ;

Recently Taylor has concent raved on recruiting, and claims par-

ticular success in the St. Louis atea. (Minutemen headquarters remains

«

 
  
   
   

 

- oo. ee . ee

Nazis, -

/ cans JUGEND + Sr eee

“at 1656 Wisconsin Avenue in Washington! s historic Georgetown s: section.

in DePugh's hometown, Norborne, Missouri). Taylor stresses that the
Minutemen are now a youth oriented organization, and that although
weapons and explosives were "still part of their training" Minutemen

are under strict orders to refrain from acts of violence . fat this
time." oo

“‘DePugh, while a fugitive, was groping for ; a "philosophy" for the

“movement , " and for those who, like himself, had “somehow escaped’ the

brainwashing of the estabiishment controlled news media, the horrors .
of progressive education, and the sophistry of modern Christianity."
His quest ended with the discovery of "Imperium," the Francis Parker
Yockey anti- Semitic tome embraced by most of today's Ss more erudite neo

‘The contending factions of the remains of the DePugh tn organizatio

'. seem destined to go their own route, Both"seem to endorse hostility

toward Jews.

   

   

Tooling up for a counter attack ‘against an’ anticipated spring, _
“leftist inspired campus offensive, the now patently anti-Semitic. ;
. National Studert Alliance has moved into larger national headquarters

“Founded in the spring of 1969 by’ ‘then 37 year old Louis

among other things a former John Birch Society organizer; catalyst.

 

of the 1968 "Youth for Wallace" movement; and a featured speaker at
the: gutter-bigot National States Rights Party annual conventjion this
past summer, the NYA is closely allied with Liberty Lobby, one of. the

largest and most effective ultra- -rightist pressure gfoups. Liberty |

Lobby officials admit assistance to NYA in its fo mative stages.

~ NYAts five man Adult Advisory Board, Revilo P. 0 professor of
' classical lariguages at the University of Hipbiots lena $U Corton,
_ broadcaster and ee meira of Conservative Viewpoint; Réar Admiral ;
“(Ret.) John G. Crommelin perenniy i candidate for public office in.
‘Alabama; Lt. Gen. Pedro A. Del Vat fe (USMC-Ret.), a long time parti- ..

~ eipant in organize ate movements, and Austin. former professor.
'. at La Salle College, a post war apologist for the Nazi regime in

Germany, all are or have been involved in Liberty Lobby activities, .

.and all, with the exception of App, are patently. anti-Semitic. A

four man student “Advisory Council," whose precise role is as yet un-
announced, but presumably, together with the Advisory Board, deter- .

. mines NYA policy.

Byers! plan for a campus based organization was originally con-’
ceived as a vehicle to mobilize cadres of rightist students on campus
to "crush" radical leftists. NYA evolved into a movement with a four
point program: (1) To oppose ‘the.use of dangerous drugs and narcotics

« .
ee . a - ree SS . J Te

A drumbeat of unti- Israel, pro- -A ab “editorials, news features

- and a weekly column by one Ali Bagh i, a former president of the |.
Arab students in the United\States, appear regularly in the weekly
Muhammad Speaks. Within the past few weeks Baghdadi‘s column wo
"Middle East Report," prominently featured on the first news page

_ of the publication, charged that Israel is a racist state, alleged
that brutalities of the Israeli government have been finally admit-
_ted by the Red Cross, and reported that since the cease-fire Israel

Holy Cities have been turned into Sodoms and Babylons.

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  
 
  

. “Recent news “stories allege that Egyptian Moslems in the UAR re-

gard the Nation pf Isiam with"love, respect and brotherhood," that
Israel and the United States call for the death penalty of hijackers

until Zionists are caught. Editorials proclaim that Zionism is a

. corrupt form of nationaiism, that it is financed by and run in the |

_ interests of the greedy white financier-mpiljtarist-industrialist and _

: Zionism Supports the interests of the exploiters. of black people. | “:

: Stoked by, the ‘fires “Of religious fervor; among other things, ;
there is not likely to be a lessening of their strident anti-Zionism =
with its anti-Semitic spill-over. The infection is not likely to .
‘disappear. Hopefully it can be contained and, quarantined.

  

“. THE NEO FASCISTS, 7

   

| Kian’ Kapers

wy “As is the case with ‘other nationwide right-wing extreiigt Jove”
ments, the. Klan hangs on, with just enough activity to sustain /organ-
izathonal life. United Klans of America Imperia} Wizard Robert Shel -
don; released from jail about a year ago, has been making strenuous
efforts to rebuild on the foundation of the old Klan. A tireless ©".
‘traveler, Sheldon has been on the lecture circuit, making radio and -
“television appearances (as the nation's #1 Klansman he apparently .
warrants being put on exhibition) and meeting regularly with local — nt
“‘klavern leadership. The United Klans remains the largest ina still:
“highly fragmented Klan led by ambitious and competing Imperial Wizards.
_ Latest (March 1970) official estimate by FBI puts total Klan member- .
“ship at about 5500. But there are recént stirrings, motivated by au
desire to capitalize on left-raéicai inspired violence. Klan activity
has been apparent in Pennsylvania (North Philadelphia, York and Bucks
County), Atlanta, Georgia, Wilmington, Delaware, North Carolina,..
. Michigan and Florida. Some measure of political respectability ac- .
-crued to the Klan when the Michigan American Independence Party, sup- .
porters of George Wallace, nominated the State Grand Dragon as its
Candidate for. Secretary of Stute in. last November's elections. (A
Klansman was a candidate for Poatiac's City Commission, but. withdrew
because of what he described as "chreats. ")

 
Background '
The Chicago based Nations of Islam, churacterized by J. Edgar —
“Hoover as the “largest black extremist group in this country," .
. teaches and preaches violent hatred of whites under the tutelage
- and dictatorial control of the wizened, sickly.74 year old Elijah
Muhammad, accepted completely by his followers as the authentic ~
contemporary voice of the Prophet Mohammad. Assiduously tithing
‘from his followers (no reliable information is available as to Black
-Muslim membership, with estimates varying from 10,000 to 100,000). he ~
‘has forged a powerful enterprise consisting of farm lands, equipment, ~
‘manufacturing establishments, retail shops and real estate believed =:
to have a net worth in excess of $50 million. Within the past few -
yéars there has been a gradual but perceptible enlargement of Black ©.
“Muslim concerns. Initially an ingrown, self-centered movement it is .-
“now if not overly active on the world scene “it is at least passingly -
concerned with geopolitics. A pro-Hahoi posture is now manifest in ~
‘Muhammad Speaks, the official Muslim newspaper. Of late there has = -
.been some cautious preliminary contact with white radical groups, ©.)
.Muslim delegates having participated in an Arab Teach-in at the ;
- University of Pennsylvania in May 1969 under the sponsorship of the ©:
-¥Young Socialist Alliance and the Committee to’ Support Middle East — .
Liberation, Representatives of the Muslims-joined with white radi- ...
“cals in attending the Labor Day 1970 weekend Revdlutionary Peoples =:
Constitutional Convention held in Philadelphia under Black Panther — -
auspices (relationships with the Black Panthers are ill-defined;
“while they speak no evil of the Panthers, neither do they praise :
.them.) Further evidence of a gradual breakout from their traditional .
isolationism and self-containment was the appearance by a Black Mus-_.
. lim minister from Harlem at thé Congress of African People mepting in -
. Atlanta, Georgia on September 6th, the Latest in,a series of annual
- meetings on black power first heid in 1966. Netspaper accounts note.
that the participating Muslim leader Louis Farrakhan drew an enthusi- ~
_astic response "far greater than that accorded other black figures -
‘who have spoken at the international congress." ee,

   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

“Geographically dispersed with 120 Mosques from coast to coast

* and regular radio broadcasts over more than S0 outlets and a news- LS

. + paper vigorously promoted on streets, subway stations and bus stops ©

'.in’ metropolitan areas, with large Negro populations disciplined and
dedicated, and exemplars of a clean, moral life, the Muslims are ao
respected in America's black cormunities. What they say about non-. .
doctrinal matters has impact beyond the Temples of Islam membership.

A Cause for Concern

Since the Suez crisis of 1956, the Black Mustims have shown ‘an
increasing sympathy fur Acaba wath whoin they adentity both as black:
and Muslims as against white, sro-Aaerican israeli and Zionist ex-
ploiters of blacks. As of now tae Temples of Islam constitute the
largest reservoir of the anti-Semitism pollution in America's black
community. : ;

  

 

 
14-00000

4

.
i>
fs
e
;

persist of their training Panthers in guerrilla warfare. Panther —
Minister of Information Eldridge Cleaver made public appearances
with and eljcited praise froxi Al Fatah representatives. Panthers «
. "Skip" Maléhe and Connie Mathews were official delegates to the
“| Ruropean bas based Third World Pédples Liberation Struggle, and were
_ entertained in Denmark and Sweden. Messages of support and ex- ,
“. pressions of solidarity poured into Panther headquarters from revo-
. Lutionary groups the world over. Radical revolutionaries flocked ...
.to attend a Black Panther convened National Revolutionary Conference | _
for a United Front Against Fascism in Oakland, California held July .
18-21, 1969 subvented in part by the Communist Party U.S.A, The. 9...
Socialist Workers Party pledged its "full solidarity” with the BPP.
SDS, despite huni Viating rebuffs, embraced the Panthers, and SDS) =
“founder Tom Haydéh publicly endorsed the concept of a revolutionary ~
“coalition of Panthers and white revolutionaries enunciated by El-
:dridge Cleaver. On November 26, 1970, J, Edgar Hoover, appearing
“before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee, testified that “Arab ©
“guerrillas reputedly are heavily subsidizing the Panthers..." Wide-
‘spread-publicity was given the November 1970 offer by the Black |
Panthers to the Vietcong's Liberation Armed Forces to send Fighting
troops to aid in. the struggle against U. 3. imperialism.

  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  

 

 

. “Cleariy, ‘the Panthers had preempted the Amegican field : as a
swashbuckling, gun toting, “committed to the revolution" force, ;
‘idolized by the majority of America's white radicals and extremists.
If their self-proclaimed "Marxism-Leninism" was diluted and something
jess than 99 and 99/100% pure, it was of no import. By default, if |
for no other reason, the Black Panther Party had in fact become the
vanguard of the American. Revolution.

The. Constitutional Convention

  

* 7

: e
-. Some 6,000 people, 50% of whom were “white, met inva ‘spirit of
a brothesiy love in Philadelphia. over ‘the Labor Day weekend under
.. Panther auspices, ultimately to roar approval for a draft of a "new
“constitution for revolutionary people." Work was to be completed at
“.a ‘second Constitutional Convention in Washington over the November .
“28th weekend, and approximately 4,000 faithful if not disparate dele-
o> gates, some from far away ,. consisting of Weatherman, SDSers, Chicanos,
-- Young Lords, Gay Liberationists, and. assorted revolutionaries,. again |
_ Mostly white, came prepared to pay 4 $10.00 registration fee as a
‘prelude to creating a historic document. The Convention was doomed
. from the outset. Efforts to secure a convention hall - first the
-. Washington Armory, then the Howard University auditorium - were un-
_ successful. Nothing appeared organized or structured to the purpose
_of the meeting. Delegates wandered around Washington in aimless
confusion, some to attend hastily scheduled impromptu meetings, many
to return home without parlictpating. in uny activity at all. - The
majority of the attendees left ungry over the monumental disarray and
shaken in their faith in the Puathers' ability to organize, much less
' lead, the contemporary American revolution. Even those who stayed
to the end, their belief sufficiertiy strong to overcome the disap-

   
Ps House. ")
ae.

 

oF

pointment at the chaos, were depressed when Panther commander-in-chicf

Hucy Newton, addressing the one big rally that materialized, appeared

confused and abstract. In lieu of a promised revolutionary peoples ,

constitution, they left with a set of new and patently unredeemable

pledges. ("We Will liberate Howard University." "We will hold our

_ Revolutionary Peoples Convention for a raincheck until such time as
' we liberate Washington, D. Ges and then we will hold it in the White 7

. “After seven months of rallies, rap sessions, ‘conventions, ‘press’ ”:
conferences and publicity building up to a Constitutional Convention,
nothing happened, The more pragmatic Panthers must have known that
the Convention would never produce a viable document, but rather ..
‘hoped to use the occasion, as they did the Conference for a United.
. Front Against Fascism, as a rallying point for, radical extremists.
"They failed miserably, if not fatally. . .

 

 

 

   
 

 

- Prognosis

 

- The Panthers are > hurting.» “Irreconcilably at odds with Black
-Nationalists, and never accepted by the black mjddle class, their
principal support flow comes from the unemployed, uneducated 18-25 year -
‘old. ghetto youths. Loss of the vanguard role,-coming as it does, is a
-severe set back for the Panthers, affecting the nature and extent of. -.
overseas support. Peking, Moscow and Arab terrorists themselves in ~
“dire straits will in all probability. now take a long hard look before
making future commitments. At the moment with nowhere else to go, —
' Panther energies will be directed to community programs to be funded,
~in part, by a Huey Newton lecture tour.of U.S. colleges. Police,
authorities, aware that during the past four months Panther members
have been arrested and charged with fifteen robberies and nia Phrey

“across ‘the country, believe they were perpetrated to. replenish Pp rty
~ eofters , ; ; ; - .

 

      

THE “TEMPLES OF ISLAM. ~A DURABLE INSTI TUTION

“With all the fanfare over the Black Power movement, the curiosity’
created by Black Nationalisn, the publicity bestowed on ” ephemeral al-
- beit electrifying figures such as Stokely Carmichael and Rap Brown ;
and the excitement generated by the Black Panthers , the Black Muslims oe
have been all but ignored. ; . ;

Long a potent force in the plack conmunity, ‘the ‘Temples ‘of Islan,
better known as the Black Muslims, are one of the most staple, cohesive. ~
black movements in the United States and its leader Elijai Muhammad one.
of the most powerful black men. in Anerica. — :
   

“THE NEW LNST--WUERE TS y ;

 

AL The Cany

     

us Rudicals - The Decline of SDS As A Significant Force

fo ' |The 1909 SDS Chicago convention irreparably. split the organiza-
“ tion, for several years the spearhead of the student radical move-,
“ment. Dedication to participa tory democracy was forgotten. ina
power struggle between existing ideoiogical blocks. Intoxicated by
victories achieved in part through violence at Columbia and Harvard,
and misreading the commivment of “students who participated in campus
‘yicts (the vast M2 POTTY were not dedicated revolutionaries) one
. £action subsequently =seatified as the Weathermen, sought after the .
. conventicn to emez se fron their campus cocoon as a full fledged rev-
Olutionary force. 3y jucrrilla warfare they hoped to topple selected .
. existing instituticns of the capitalist system, if not the government
- itself. The second faction to emerge, Maoist and rigidly Marxist --
the Progressive Laborizes - contemptuous of ‘campus guerrillas as."
- “elitist" put committed to a sometime in the future revolution, held. .
that the time was not now, and that revolution could only be brought ~
about with support from blue collar workers. The Revolutionary Youth
'.Movement, the third force, quickly disintegrated. Each gréup by ukase
..Tead the other out of/S5s. Disunity, the fatal disease of extremist.
movements, - ‘is for SDS now in its terminal stage. cons

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

“On Sunday,” December 27, 1970 some 500 delegate members of the:
PLP faction arrived in Chicago for what maybe SDS‘s last convention, |
. Still seeking to weld an alliance with biue colldy workers who despise
; them. The Weathermen faction, decimated by governmental crackdowns,
its leadership or most of those still at liberty fugitives from the- .
‘law, and a rank and file increasingly disenchanted with violence, .un--
invited did not attend. The four-day get-together, marked by more
acrimonious and seemingly endless debate, stressed the need for fur-
ther missionary worx among the working class. Attendance - fown to *
200 for the concluding day - reseabicé a wake more than a convention. |
! : se ow Toe -
. Onetime SDSers and those who might. have become “involved with: the
: prototyve SDS, now opt for membership in 16-15 member collectives or
; cadres» ephemeral in duration, ane vague of Purpose.

  

 

ee - The Trotskyite Young Socialist Alliance, dedicated, “doctrinaire,
, disciplieed and dull, is emerging as the largest (5000) and most co-"
_hesive campus revolutionary group. Opposed to “picking up the gun,"
. they are~determined to make “every university a Red university."
. YSA lacks the SDS popular appeal of a few years back, and has little
: potent ial as a catalyst for studeat violence. : .

 

B. A Change In The Weather? So ° -

In the latest (December 6, 1970) in a series of prophetic
pecatherman"’. cofmunzques dispatched to underground publications,
: Bernadine Dohrn, i asionara o= S55 revolutionaries, scemed to be
. calling for an and to violence in tne nane of the cause. Proclaiming
that “the future of our revolution ncs seen changed decisively;" —
“our belief that armed struggzie is the only real revolutionary stru

: o7lal
104-10083-10009 ioe , eens. a pom i
LY} “UHeLAssieteD [7] (fieRuaL -, of] CONFIDENTIAL © =] SECRET
yor "ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

    
   

| SUBJECT: (Optional)

 

DCS Case 52722

18 March 1971

     

  
  
 

TO: (Officer designation, room number, cod

"| building) OT “OF
.' Chief, c1/s :
- 03-07, a , AAR 1971 ||
Folia | For ‘your ‘retention. oS
"Co See

            
        
 
   
   

COMMENTS {Number each comment to show frem whom
fo whom. Drow.a line across column after each comment.) 7.

 

 

From the Desk of Milton
Ellerin.

 

  

FORM 6] 0 USE PREVIOUS

wire” [] secret = [] CONFIDENTIAL §C] TERNAL =). ynicLasstrteD. i+! |
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

is a dormant campus issue. Admiuistrative and curriculum reform, so

-2-
_ * . ae : a Oo, mo

is destroyed forever;" that "this tendency to consider only bombings
or picking up the gun as revolutionary, with the glorification of
the heavier. the better, we've called the military error." Dohrn ob-
served that outlaws living underground do not have a sense of what
is going on and cannot develop strategies to build the movement .
numerically. Obviously after earnest organizational soul searching,
she outlined proposed future activities to: "Change and share the

* cultural revolution." “Planning for and organizing rallies. and

demonstrations, mass actions against, among other things, the war;

“and in support of prison revolts" she wrote, “constitute the new —_
- agenda." Removed from scenes of action are schools, and the army -

  

"they cannot do that which is necessary to radicalize people."

“While the proposed change in,Weatherman action may be more ~~
tactical than philasophical, it is a fact that many students, pro- ..
fessing dedication to the necessity of revolution now, -have been
shocked by the results of some bombings. Violence has not brought
about the predicted repression which in turn, it was said, would .
bring Weathermen mass sympathy arid support. In all probability there
wilt be a change in the revolutionary weather, for how.long we do not
now. OO Ds ne

 

 

   

C. Campus Demonstrations - Winter Hibernation? .

-:o%:§pring, the traditional season for campus disturbances, is some
months off. Accordingly despite a marked lull in protests since ;
September it may be premature to dogmatically state that a major
polarizing student offensive against U.S. Indo China policy or some
form of "Establishment" authority. is not in the cards, Student domin
ated groups - at. odds with each other - the National Peace Action
‘Coalition and the Nationai Coalition Against War, Racism, dnd Re-
pression, are planning massive .anti-war rallies on April 24th and
‘May Sth in Washington and other large cities. Botht‘endorse a G.I.
‘protest against the war scheduled for Armed Forces Day (May 16th). -
',The National Student Association, now considerably more leftist
than’ -previously, is.formulating pians for yet another anti-war rall:

to publicize the signing of a "peace treaty" by U.S., Saigon, NLF-
| and DRV students. a er a

Yet there are discernibie Signs that a national student protest

of such magnitude and. intensity capable of polarizing the nation to

the extent that did the May 1970 d«monstrations is only a slight .

-- possibility, barring an event with the emotional charge of a major
- military adventure in Indo China. The Kent State killings had'a

. sobering effect oa students, particuiariy the realization that it
‘could happen on their campus. The senseless killing at Wisconsin
‘and other random bombiags Rave unleniably diminished the romance of

violence as a condition precedent to a revolution which, incidentall}
now no longer seems inevitable or necessary. Unregenerate tear so-
ciety down revolutionaries are act today's student heroes. Vietnam

 

es

 
stridently sought a few years back, has’ in large measure been achieve

. Current strategy dictates working with and through’ "the system" ‘despit

.4 measure of student radicalization brought about by anti-war and othe

protests. The push today is for environmental reform. And not to be

‘discounted is the fact that the vast majority of college students sta

_ with their parents in middle America. After years of strife, they s See
_ determined to get on with getting an education.

oss

°
e

    
   

ok - THE PANTHER LICKS HiS WOUNDS

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

be As ‘criminal trials in New York city ‘and New Haven, Connecticut : ar
- proceeding against leading Panther functionaries and. some rank and fil
‘police are conducting what in military. parlance is ‘called “mopping up

_ operations" against local headquarters in various parts of the country
. (Since the beginning of -Panther-police confrontations, some 500 Panthe
_ vank and file have been | garrettes ) Leader Hue Newton, at liberty on

_ bail, co-founder Bobby Seale, incarcerated, and party. theoretician
Eldridge Cleaver, a a fugitive from justice presiding over the Party's

» international. headquarters in Algiers’; all have become -uncharacteristi
’ Cally mute, And whatever excitement their pronouncements once were

able to generate for the benefit of the Panthers jas abated. The blac
community. has failed to rally around,

 

ve Financial support from white liberals ‘and. ‘the "radical chic,” un-
oe der . devastating attack from many quarters, has all but ceased. Exposts
“. . of the diversion of money collected for the once appealing frec break-
Soe : fast program for ghetto youth to other purposes has also hurt. -

oe A withering attack by Eldridge Cleaver on the Communist ‘Party US USA
.-.. for “active collusion" with "U.S. fascists" in “using the Angela Davis
“. case.as a “smokescreen to conceal the trial of Bobby Seale" will fur--
wen ther, disrupt what was at best a marriage of political convenience. °

 

7 Potentially more painful, however, than any other recent develop-

“Ment is the precipitous loss: of Panther prestige attributable to the -

-~ recent debacle heralded as a National Convention to- Rewrite the Con- -
- stitution of the United States.

 

The Background -

For a variety of reasons, not the least of which are “the violence
-of their revolutionary rhetoric, their imagé as a group with internal
discipline, and possessing the "machismo" to “shoot it out" with the
police, the Black Panthers were internationally proclaimed by various
self-professed white revolutionaries as being the vanguard qf “the
Revolution." Panther leaders were wined, dined, and fussed over in
. Pyongyang, North Korea, by an obvious government sanctioned group, a
“Committee forthe Peaceful Unification of the Fatherland." The Party
has been lavishly praised by Maoist China, and eagerly courted by the
Russians. Arab guerrillas entertained visiting Panthers and reports
