 

 

 

 

croup vould present us with a long squgtt solution to the problen.
gizgly di3 not knov whet to tuink end wosiered, vhat Kr. Devine's views
ware. : : : oO

 §, Following this exanination of ta SP, I raised the theoretical
questica wbether or not the tim: aignt cam fp the near future for the
U.S. to detersine which of tha number of groupe would get US. blessings
Qir current flexible operational policy i.e. the denlings with = nunber
of groupa is vorkable onough but perbag: torre might cone a time-in the

‘got too distant future ‘vben wo may hsve ‘to fisa or cut bait. By this I

did not wean to imply an/official ennamcemat that any specific group.
bad been selected) rather a fairly unierstancable, syopatbetic offielal

“attitude tovards one single Cubon seguect wisst ba shows

G, We efided the meting. by stating om appreciation of beving the
egportuniay to express cur oun personal views in an inforeal wannsry wa
added that. tla cceversation in no way comstituted a request for answers

_. to the tepies ciscuased. _

GERARD DROLER
CPP PA
ise (a Rove 1960)

fons
«CR File
. 2.» Cardona dossier
Lo MRP tlle ©

 

 

 

 
 

‘og 10192-10019

 

Hf [PI

1 Hoverber 1960

RENORARDUM FOR "OEE R2CORD

sunJect Meeting vith Hr. Devine (Departuant of State)1 Novexber 1960, -
in wy Office.

le Rote: This warning Col. Mallard requected-cdvice @ wbat. to tat
Ke. ‘Deving cor concerning the ‘anticipates visit of Hiro Cardoos to the Degmmtie:
nent of State. It was thought best to use this opportunity to orief kr.
Devine ca, cur, recent flexible policy vis a vis ths YRD and other groups.
Thus, Her. © ited for e mesting in wiich the uersigned, Coke
Nollard oa Re participated. .
: / re)
2. r ‘outlined -bpdefly cur current operat ionat policy ‘Lees our deale
ings with the FRO ani with grougs outside the FRD as well. We mentiocacd. oe
that we bed not allowed FAD representatives to con to Washington and lobuy
in bebalf of their orgenizationsj on tne other band meny individuals and
groups in opposition to the FRD were engaging heavily in such lobbying
activities. Thus perhaps a somsvixt wmbslanced picture hao been palated
of the Frente and my heave even taken bold. In view of this consiueratiog.
night be given to beve the FRD send. a representative to Washington vbose
peisary joo would be to wale cantacts with the OAS and secondarily to .
artioulate = vis a ‘VAs US a Governmint officials - the FRO policies. :

3. The foregaing, ZT said, was called to mind by Col. Mollard's
questicn to. pe on how to hendle tha prajected Hiro'’s visit to Weohington.
It vas my peramal opinion that, should Mire iuguire about the Bender
group, ‘she Dapartnent wight inéieate in o non-passive way its averenses of
tke group; should Miro sot mmtion. the group perhaps a way could ve found
to tell Miro that for matters whieh could not be handled by the Departosnt,
he undoubtedly had already bie on .eoutacts which he will find satisfactory.

&. The discussien dé Miso. ted tos further examination of the MRP
vhic: Ja very close to Hiro. J said that I wus puszled about the MRP
political posture; I bad « wuber of discussions with TRP vagresentatives
din tho U.S., bad received ita platfora but had not been able to make up
wy wind whether cr not ~ frin.a loony range viewpoint « the BRP poale wre
compatible with U.S. self interests. On ong hand ~ and I referred here
toa coment Er. Devine had mide previously ~ important U.S. buviness
people vould not give the MRP "a place in nelly" on the other iond, poopla
like Sanches Arango, Sojao, Fimerez end others cecm to ‘feel that tute
