 

-2-

Stee

4. For the record the undersigned also plans to pay &
courtesy call on both the offices of 00 and DODS in New York.
It is not planned to go into any details of the operation other

than what is absolutely necessary.

 

 

 
 

104-10247-10094

eo

 

3 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD wal

SUBJECT . : Meeting witl | Mayflower
Hotel, Washiffgton, D.C. concerning “rapprochement

deception operation"
PERSONS PRESENT : _Thé undersigned (as William Wickman) and

 

 

 

lo.
REFERENCE : Memo ~ AMWHIP-1 Neeting, 19 February, paragraph
3.De
ob Meeting/Time/Place and Purpose. Meeting was held with
in Suite at the Mayflower Hotel,

  
 
   

hief of the Governmental Relations
with his office located at
detaiis of address to be provided
xpose of the meeting was to

me as a backstop for a phase

   

 

 
 
 

Tater), telephone
request the use of Mr.

of the rapprochement de fy ation which would involve
AMWHEP-1. We asked. Mr.e i x 15 minutes of his time,
however, the meeting progresse satisfactorily that we spent

 

just under one hour with him,
2, After an explaaation of what we wanted from Mr |
He had only one reservation and™that is

he agreed to cooperate.

the fact that some members of his family are still in Cuba. :They
are being checked out, although tr) role as the carrier

of a rumor heard in Washington circlesYeis certainly no type of
activity that we can foresee as endangering these relatives.
The problems of his relativeS&nd the aforementioned opinion were

discussed at length with Mr. }ho readily agreed to .
accept our judgement in this matter. xe jwas advised of

the identity of AMWHIP-~1 and e advisabi discussed of
allowing the agent to meet M in a a

 

the plausibility of the source of the rumor. Mf as
in agreement with this and very kindly made arrangements With
his secretary in New York for a meeting with AMWHIP~1 at 1500
hours on.Monday, 8 March in his office in New York City. ‘

3. The undersigned has advised AMWHIP of this development
and the appointment, and the fact that he (the undersigned) will
be in New York Monday to brief AMWHIP on the meeting and possibly
also attend himself. . :

1
