14-00000

 

 

It was believed that such a revelation would throw a great
strain on the relations of the Cuban Communist Party (then known
as the PSP] with the other partners in that coalition. “It was
also felt that the operation would redound against the USSR
because the Vice. Minister of Defense was a senior member of

the Moscow-line PSP. It was calculated that the USSR would

“move to defend the Vice Minister, who was probably their chief

agent in.the Cuban government, and that a ‘collision between. the

Soviets and Cubans could result. The Cubans accepted the Spurious

“papers and paid ‘for. ‘then per our ‘demand.

%.b-Through the summer of 1963 several further deliveries

‘of spurious documents were made to the Cubans and several

thousand dollars were received in payment. But results of the

operation from inside Cuba. were not yet observed. Therefore

on 13. November: 1963 when a delivery of. ‘documents was again

being made several were included revealing the presence of another
"CIA agent" | in the Cuban government, this: time inside the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico. This target was Teresa Proenza Proenza,

long- time Cuban Communist and contact of the Soviet intelli ence

She Wor. a.  elose combatt dehy Lee Warm shee + Ve feu Cee
in Mexico, _ who was acting as Cuban Cultural Attache ® On 10 December

1963 ‘Miss. Proenza was informed of her sudden transfer back to

Cuba; she actually departed on 23, January 1964. It was apparent

that her recall was connected with ‘the ‘spurious documents and

her known long-time friendship with the Vice Minister of Defense.
&S.c,.The first reaction to the: operation inside Cuba occurred

in the week of 14 March 1964. At that time.a junior member of
104-10065-10174

 

 

 

"MEMORANDUM:

  

SUBJECT: Political Action Operations i in Cuba ~ Tie PROENZA

Case . : h
“ve
1.- Introduction a
. This memorandum sets forth information concerning the
conduct of a series of interlocking non-violent political action
operations against the Cuban government, its internal coalition
and its alliance with the Soviet Union mounted in 1963.
. 2. Objectives . . . .
Pursuant to instructions from the 303 Committee of the
Kennedy Administration the CIA established anong its. objectives
against Fidel Castro! s Cuba noma fragmenting ‘Ats | governing
coalition and of Siacertattng | its relations with the USSR.
This decision was taken prior to the ‘October 1962 Missile Crisis.
As a result of tne decision a number of non-violent operations
were carried out. Those pertaining to the Teresa Proenza Proenza
. case are set our below.

mq. On 3 April 1963 a set of spurious documents falsely:
ascribed to a disaffected CIA agent in Mexico were passed {}

 

<< >to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

 

The documents made it apparent that the Cuban Vice Minister of
Defense, a highly placed and violent Moscow-line Communist who
had been in Moscow when the missile build-up was planned in

early 1962, was actually a CIA agent who had betrayed the build-up.

  
14-00000

 

 

 

 

the Communist Party (PSP) was tried and convicted of betraying
non-Communist leaders of the. resistance to the former government

of Cuba which had been overthrown by Fidel Castro. As the trial

wore on it became apparent that since the yung Communist had

been the protege of the Vice Minister of Defense the trial was
really a trial of the latter; another Tukachevskiy case.
eo. During 1964 deliveries of documents to the Cubans. were

1964
continued and ‘payments received. On 18 November* the Vice. Minister

; of Defense was arrested on charges of. treason and removed from

his post. Sof was: his wife “who also held cabinet rank. They

were jailed as was Teresa Proenza.

#.€. After terms in prison all three defendants were released
to house arrest: Proenza was later permitted to work as a

librarian in Havana. The Vice Minister died peacefully in his

‘bed several years later: His widow was allowed to leave Cuba -

to reside in Spain.. This phase of. the CIA operation wound

down in March 1966 when the ‘Cubans ceased taking an ‘interest in

“it.

2.4. concluding Remarks
The foregoing is but the barest outline of a highly
complex operational system that made. use of a wide variety of

techniques and assets which have not Been revealed to the public,

“The.

sandtine story would make the juiciest of headlines if it became
publicly known, especially in the present moralistic environment.
The fact that several persons-were deprived of their freedom as

a result of the operation should be noted. Furthermore, this

 
14-00000

i
A
i
i

 

 

operation laid the basis on which other operations of a similar
nature were successfully mounted against Cuban and other hostile
targets. In short, this file is a Pandora's box the opening .
of which would not: only expose the cryptonyms of other operations
of this type but would attract unfavorable publicity for the
Agency in certain quarters and would expose Hitherto secret

techniques and assets. ‘This would make theic employment in the

“future very difficult. The fact that this series of operations

did not begin. to register’ on the Cubans until after the death

of President Kennedy should ‘remove any suspicion that” it in’

any way goaded Castro. into assassinating our president.

 
