74-00000

. RETURNTO CIA ~
Background Use Only

* «Bo Not Reproduce Page Two

‘ip,

short range communications, etc., is available from many
manufacturers, Our Quick Reaction Facility can produce a

small number of radio switches based on these devices with a
considerably lester degree of security {rom false signal triggering
with a lead time of 6 to 8 Weeks, Simple mechanical protection
against accidental triggering can be gained by inclusion of counting
switches, for example, which require a preset number of firing
impulses intentionally transmitted to produce the final closure of

a relay and firing of a charge.

5. Reliability of operation in terms of response toa
transmitted signal of a given power is quite difficult to predict when
conditions of antenna length, orientation and exposure cannot be
foreseen. Location of the receiver.in a target building will aiso have
a strong bearing on ‘range’ from the transmitter, Building construction,
intervening obstacles and interference from other nearby radio fre~
quency sources will affect performance of the set.

6 you wish to discuss the pro'temse in greater depth,
we recommend a conference with audio ‘echnicians or engineera,
It may serve to clarify the appropriate -haracteristice which special or m
modified commercial equipment shoule possess to megt the needs of your
operation. Priblems of camouflaging the explosive ox incendiary materal
te serve operational requirements would be minor compared to the
necessary consideration of effects on the receiver switch concealed
within which could have important effecte on performance.

 

Distribution:
2-G/SAS
 

10179-10167

 

ie

g

RETURNTO CIA |
ckground Use Only
Do Not Reproduce / , 4

oe 04

©)

TSS/COAP MOMS #686
3 January 1963 ,

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Special Affaire Staff

Mr. A, Rodriquez

ATTENTION

SUBJECT 3 Radio Switch Equipment for Demolition
Firing Purposes

1, After our conversation on'hie subject on 30 December,

the Qdeation was discussed with Mr. TSD/AOB, and
serene The following information i¢ forwarded
for fOur Consideration as a result of our discussions,

7

2s MeL) Audio Operations Branchy-recommends two
companies. as sources of cquipmient of thie nature, These companies
have experience, under classified contracts with TSD, in producing
reliable equipment for special purposes of this sort, They also,
of course turn cut commercial equipment of good quality for normal

communications needs. These a anies are:
29,0

a.\Motorola, Chicago, Hlinois >)
b( Kell, Cambridge, Massachusetts ) 24,08
The TSD VHF radio awitth edalpand ition nee

radio switth equipment for demolition needs was
developed for us by/Mctorola, )ransistorized sets have
been produced to meét the apecial needs (riét for demolition purposes)
of other SAS projects,

 

3. In the opinion of both persons conaulted, the expenses noted
in our firet discussion should have produced a reasonable amount of
workable equipment if the source was both capable and reliable.
‘SD recommends the use of frequencies in the VHF /YHF apectrum for
equipment of this sort and crystal tuning control for reasons of reliabity,
selectivity and rejection of spurious signals. :

. 4. Inexpensive equipment of Japanese or American manufacture
im the citizens band frequency ranges for toys, radio contrat devices, .

 
