 

7[PV

 

-2-

 

- 3. Subject said that he is to make a four day trip to
Columbia within the coming fortnight and would be happy to
tackle any reasonable task we might ask of him. He agreed

uid be a simple matter for him to introduce AIS to
a I advised that we might want him to aid us in some
- Such fashion, but that I could think of mothing at the moment.
I asked him to give a ring as soon as his travel plans were firm.

. 4% her. ps business: [I asked Subject to go
over th business again, ad when he was
through 7 story, réquested that he phone the Cuban

Embassy in Ottawa to find out i ere still there.
We worked out a couple of sroutinésS t6 covér all eventualities

we could. think of, that is, et e@ man were out
of the office, and so forth. [Pere to be there,
Subject was to arrange a meeting for a day some 10
days hence. NOTE: Subject phone on 6 November hat
he had caller per arrangement and was told that had

left Ottawa for Havana in June and would probably not be 06

 

returning.
COMMUNICATIONS:

5. Subject will continue to write tof atise
THOMPSON and to phone me alias BREITHEIM on = .

TFW/PFI
 

 

104-10183-(0048,- ba

 

 

 

«a . : ol

13 November 1962

 

|

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RE

 
 

SUBJECT; Meeting wit 1 (Telephone N.¥.C. JU 6-4622)

\ . ’. DATE AND PLACE: 180041930 fyours, 5 November 1962, Hotel Taft

 

 

 

 

    

lew Yprk City
PRESENT: Subject and (alias Breitheim)
BACKGROUND:
. .
gm. 70 1S fm meeting was set on to determine whether
Subject uid be a Akely candidate to fill a temporary slot
ia (B. Riojor (saco las a PA working more or less exclusively
to at etrate the local Cuban diplomatic installation,
Since as to be out of town for an indefinite period,
T was © make the above determination, The meeting

was set by phone on the above date.

OPERATIONAL:

2. The main point of the meeting was settled quickly.
Subject indicated that he would be willing to take a three or
four month trip to Latin America for us, and to perform what-
ever operational tasks ve felt he would assign to him. The
only qualification; This trip could not be taken until after
the first of the year. Subject stated that though the jewelry
business is presently in its pre holiday doldrums, this situa-
tton would change in about ton daysto one of intense activity.
He simply could not afford to take extensive time out at this
juncture. [I am sure Subject was giving a straight line, and
thus made no attempt to pressure hia, particularly since we
had no pressing specifics to put him to work against. I asked
whether he knew of any Cubans in the Capitpls of L.A. who

vmight be useful for our vork.obHe ¢ up’ With the nase of th
foraer manager of the fitsbana Hiltooh DPOB i920,)08
Cuba, presently manager of the Garrera TTtGiy SAG Jj dubjoct
clatmoed this man wan smart, dedicated to ant -Comauniaa,
averred an ta how he Crouse pout be happy toa coop~
erate, and would gertatialy know much about the detagn of mont
ae

Cubatin in (Saco) TR: Upon retura to Headquart od
frog Yarolius that Gace already tn touch with uk

net for Cubaa ops, (e

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

mypy
