1400000 .

vad

we

18. The "Unidentifig St Lda
unidentified. There is st} Pat

( SE oC

"Pp. S. Photographs dated 15 y 1963 were
inserted after. typing of

N
taken as [the] persee®

  
 

in the » photograph had any

CIA is aware, that the individ

connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or ‘the assassinatién of

President Kennedy.

: pace i 42 of

 

“COPY NO.

1
ane

. CO! C
a on geet

11. One additional element of bac een must be

stipulated now as “the final re to understanding the
cn SS

  
  

 

e unknown

on 23 November in

     

xO
Dallas by the FBI agent: whe Se totality of CIA Mexico"s

coverage of OSWALD's activity a the afternoon of the 23rd

  

when all available coverage had been checked?
12. The totality of Mexico Station coverage ono seas
yo inferable to be OSWALD consisted of five (5). voice intercepts.
; Each of these items, including the text. of the raw intercepts,
. were read by, discussed with, and examined by Warren Commission
‘staffers. in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay
| from 8-13 April 1964. “All were made available promptly to
the FBI. - |
13. At about mid-day on 1 October, the’ camera registered
"the entry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the -
‘opinion of the Station, among. all the persons photographed that |

“day, he appeared to be the only non

aor SS be an association

m the voice inter-

and possibly American
‘who entered. On the chance thar th

<<
between the identification dat

w)
cept and the descripeivg Qe ae

Station reported the a

+ to Headquarters on 8 October.

      
   
 

rom the photograph, the

Ss separate facts in its cable

uae ‘The Station’ s action was not unusual and ‘really amounted
. to an analytic "quantum leap,” in terms of the primitive status
of the OSWALD identification. Many examples of a similar kind of
thing can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters

SECRET

: “440. 319

PAGE. of

 

 

En emo = es eR + RENNER oF meme
oe

COPY NO. aa _
14-00000

 

 

"45. On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Head- ~
quarters at 22292 time after learning of Qyirrest of Lee H.
OSWALD, age 24, possibly in a assassination, .

t

and referenced its: earlier messags S — October and
T i

   
  

Headquarters' reply of 10 “e RS on requested by:

“priority pouch a fet La O \y so that Station
can check all recent” cov “ee for OSWALD. Forward-
ing soonest copies of only visitor on 1 October who
could be identical with OSWALD."
16. This obviously was for comparison at the Station
which had estimated the age of the unidentified male whose
photograph it had selected as having the "apparent age of 35."
. 17. . The Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and
accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intel-
ligence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the
indication given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch °
noted that photo coverage of the unidentified individual had
turned up on 4 and 15 October. | ‘The text of the 22 November 1963
pouched dispatch read: . KS
"1. Attached are core’ S & Cn photographs . q
obtained. . .on x chen S appeared to be
an Anerican, ; vas seal Embassy on
“4 October ee a
2.  Copies—of these ae were shown to the
U. Ss. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of
each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

; Mexico, ‘on that date... .

SECRET oF
: pace +44 14d ye 319 319
COPY NO. i

rs
she had been shown a copy of &
“before the Commission, “it Or, | by the FBI in Washing-

( —
in
iets Ky" that, when
é ew ph in hex appearance
XS

 

on

   

ton in a slightly different on

‘4, Although ‘in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his

 

stay in Mexico city from the morning: of un September: 42963 to the |

morning of 2 October 1963, at least one ‘set of photographs of the

unidentified man originated during OSWALD's stay there. it is

-4mportant, therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition and

handling of the photographs by the Mexico Station to review what.

‘the Station ascertained and did with the information it developed.

about OSWALD in Mexico city, together with Headquarters action On

that information.

5. From all credible evidence known to this time (none,

incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com-.

, X Ww
partial days -- about 116 hours a in'Mexico City from about

Sw a.m. 2 October 1963.
cial traveler hotel, not

 commercio -- where he was.

   
 

His place of residence eh
frequented by ngringos*\ << th

registered under. alias. Bands

interrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the

ive and detailed interviews and

assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel

personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.

6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,
and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be

‘SECRET

 
; FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite Ost

 

fod 068-40282 ( ee fe

fn

 
   

 

   
  

SUBJECT eee Photograph of
’ Avie Narren Commission -
a Report ‘ L
° & SS
REFERENCE: Memorandum from Dav Brn to E. Henry Knoche,
dated 15 April ‘1975 Q oo

a)

  

So
Wi,

1. In accordance with reference request, we have examined

and summarized the record concerning a cropped photograph that was
considered by the. Warren Commission in the course of its investi-

_gation. The photograph (together with others of the. same

individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted

 

 

 

. in October 1963 by the cial ed
: a i al

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-

‘ -
mation on. the assassin and’ ‘the assassination, copies of the photo-
graph were nade available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the
afternoon of 22. Novenber to the local FBI representative. Later

that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies

were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval

Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use

“in the ongoing investigation. One wore cropped by the

   

Lee Harvey OSWALD’ s
mother) in Dallas on the evening of)

ae Ron 1963 by an FBI
Oe ~) OS

agent ; . ; Neo
. SOY.
3. The Warren Conmigavon! WS describes the sequence of
events that ultimately. result in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's

allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

cation

the day before -he murdered her son. A further compli

o. “SECRET.

 

136 5 313

“PAGE _

COPY oe, te

oe ete
avery

date, “the bare bones of his. biography were forwarded by. Head-

: contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit: to the USSR.

\ This was indicated and deduced from technically acquired infor-~

aa ¢
| ,
“SS

accounted for. Overall, CIA's ink® fon can account only for

very ‘brief periods during 28, aor on nd 1 October. All

Cem) coverage.

7. It should be noted. th SSWALD was in no sense "under

 

coverage by CIA during the was technical. The

   

Station had no live’ ‘SOUTER Vv

investigation." ‘None of the facts of his defection and stay in
the USSR and return to the U. S., 1959 - - 1962, were known: to the

Mexico. Station or in its files before 10 October 1963. On that "

quarters in response ‘toa Station cabled report of 8 October

which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be. E3

- mation on 1 October, which was the first and only occasion on that

visit in which OSWALD was recorded as identifying himself -
(partially) by true name.

8.- At no time during his > ‘aa City did the CIA

acquire a photo of OSWALD, _ A cae &S. of all coverage -+-.

    
  

technical as well as photog: Xonaucte by the Station

on 22 and 23 November 1963, $ issassination, including
: SS)

“SY >
materials back to August?19 is confirmed that there was no

CIA. photo coverage of “OSWALD at any time during his Mexico trip

or stay . in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a cabled

request’ on 15 October; the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters -~ which

did not have.one either. -- before 22 November 1963.

 

conse nendaiaeeaatneatel bennett emeeemenenemaommemeemenenenememmmemmnemmmenmemnenameaeeeennenee re a

eaten mene ereeee

ce 38 p19
: . . PACE ; of .

COPY. Ne.
1400000. f oe &

 

EN
9, It must be stressed that B& Wwehnical information the

cessed in, “real

   

time." The means of acquis)

mation preclude anything ©

9
oe of the infor--
NS reporting of items judged
. “to be of more than ordinary inQwVe and, therefore, noted in
summary logs. Full texts of selected items require consultation
of .the tape and either a full transcription or full translation:
(or: both. Photo coverage tends to become available in quantity
lots which requires scanning and selection on a rapid and
accelerated basis: in four or five day “peaks.” One of ‘the
“triggers” t hat normally operates to focus and accelerate more
speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is
‘the mention of a name. .This was precisely what “occurred: in the
second of two conversations on 1 October, during which the
speaker said he was "Lee OSWALD." ‘It was this information
.reported by the ‘Station to Headquarters in its first indication

on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

   
 
  

10. The Mexico Station did nee in in its 8 October
me

report on Lee OSWALD based on th SS information: it

coupled the data with descrag on it had acquired

from a sensitive source Korie of a male individual,
VES

apparently an American, who RS

on 1 October. The Station reported this detail on the 8th as

Observed entering an Embassy i

a.matter of coincident fact. The Station did not assert or
suggest that the data led to any deduction that the photo was in

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

 

139

COPY NO.

 

19

- PAGE of
