 

‘ ;
a) .
°. 1 eet ma & letler postrrarked Monte Carlo and weitten
: by Pedro Fatr nthe lefter Catrada sald that }eron (s the only one of
_ the Peroniota fe. who opposes. the Cubans. However, since he {s out- —
‘nimbered he bas agreed to élly.Bimech{ with Castro. Estrada said that this

- ‘ta formation: came from Porfirio. tbirosa, who he had seen recently in Moate |
Carlo at the reeta es] Piro: and kublroea said that he had been working on Peros

  

   
 
 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  

s 4. AS aid be wished. te ‘give me some advice, Thae
J being that tinder, BO. elreumstinces should: leaders of tha FRD «stablieh them-
Vy r 4

Ls the proper ilme
Be Jalled; thei:

5.
active, hae &@ great.deal of mone

  

id the Cuban latelligence service in Washington: 7
ed operates in Vaehington under the
direction of Earique Rodrigues’ ‘Loeches, Secretary of the. Cuban Embassy ia
shingtoa;. aod: Commander Jose Moleon, Cabaa Military ‘Attache. This led
ity © volunteer the naine of the persona twhorn he said was In charge of
‘aticaay ntelligesce is ‘Washington. | He said {t io Magr. Plo saght, who ie -
a keown as the auditor.for the apostelic delegation and who has served weveral

years tu Latin America, * - : : ‘ 5.

& I wondered what ulterior motive, ir oor ae fa asking to see
zn@ 80 urgeatly to pass “on the abewe, and tried todo a little probing. As far-

asl could see, U he bad.on ulterior motive, it was a suggestion be made that
. the appropriate Cuban exiles do more broadcasting and give more recy a
. to the wrongs of the Castra regime. I asked him how’ this could be done, aad
|. he, sald that one way tt could be done was'by using bis newonere mais
hg -Me seid that at préseat he sends anywhere from four hundred to
weaty-live ‘hundred copies ofthe newepaper dally tc Havanese, depending upoe
the particular publication and that he could etart having editorials published

which would be unpalatable 20 Castro aid: Ce would undoubtedly cause the 0

Cuban Goverment to protibi: the entry of thi into Cuba. Then the

ould start broadcasting from Miam| fnto: a and say that these .

Foadcases were being payed for by” “‘preminent.c Gaba exiles.

 

 
 

   

»

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

104-10171-10207

 

 

“although Mexico could take & at

_ racensly tha

Af the trend continues, Lasaro Cardenas, will in a short time

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

fb
: yt

Ib Aaguat 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : .
0 02

fee heme, Late

      

 

SUBJECT: Meeting with[,
oe afternoon of

 

August.”

 

Oo
Lo — aid he bad recently returned from a ten day vielt to Mexico
. Sad visited with Foreign Minister Manuel iellc, Tello said that
will be ina very difficult position st the coming O45 meeting. That
: téomg stand agélast Cuba it will not do eo.

  

That Mexico would orly-go se faz as to say that solidarity im the Western
Hamlepbere ts eseentiag that the couctries in Latia America should be aware
of the Commualst dangers that intervention te a serious danger and that the

O«S taka whatever action tt.can when necessary in ofder to avoid a country

from intervening in the affsirs of another. Can he then told Tello Od
that Caba could not be overlooked as it was & serious problem, Tello countered
by saying that the Cubaa aituation acd Domliwican question ebould not be confused
is the over-all panorama, Farther, that the businegs lateresis of the United
States tn Cuba were not a proper matter of diacussion.at the OsS but that this -
problem should be presented before the lntereational Court at ihe Hague a3

the CAS ts net set up to handle auch probléms. Tello said that {t would be &
mistake for the Galted States to refer to the Caracas regolutics on Communtam
inthe O.:5. Tello sald. that the cituation in Mexico has changed 60 much :
at-he himaclf ie in.aanger because he is considered as too much of

@ middle of dhe-roader, and is looking for an assigament os an Ambassador —
abroad so he can leave the country. aid that bis impréasions of © O5
Mexico oa this trip wore that in the Tac ‘tive dayo: Leper Mateos bas lost

gonaiderable groead and that General Lacaro Cardenas ie getting stronger and
sormerge &8 the

  
 

 

atrong man tn Mexico,

ald that Argentine Ambassador to the United States,

del Garriftold vim previous to ieaving for dank rancieco that segeating is
watching Cuba oaly'in as owch asthe Cuban situation affects Argentins .

because of the presence in. Cubs of certain well keown berunistas and also
Che Guevara, Osl Carril added that the general over-all Cuban problem
is viewed by ‘rgeatioa with the same coolness which tha’ United states deals

with the problen: of Antarctica.

 

6/68

 
 

 

' WO CI 955 (fies How
| EWUDENT ON VA
) Dacument,  £ om Sue |
- \T feu, Z pot iT
! ECpET 1 DER

as SE

es RECF 4, fet olig. Chea!

 

 

 
 

c i

  
   

said be was teaving for New: York the morning of I August, ..
. Rl Lae return Saturday.. In Miami he-could be reached at :
be ¢ TUnede Ubaguirre ‘also said that be hoped to ba in
ot X rie Rica’ dartag the oas ‘co ference. . .

       
  
        
 

 

. Since he has numerous, well-placed
contacts ‘ia: Latta, : circles. i we it would be to :

0%. ‘benefit te have’

   

. proved secure, I ecommended to Col, King: that
cama be iven to ind be’ ag read. . .
. ® oS Meas
Kedolpb E..Gomes

: Depaty Chief —
. Westera Hemisphere Division

 

H/Rk
