 

104-10183-10428

 

 

17 June 1965

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
i SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP/1 in New York 4 June 1965

1. Two meetings were held with AMVWHIP/1 in New York on
. _ 4 June 1965. g2Tl s first was a brief luncheon meeting from 1340-1445
' between A/1 and(R. H. Webster) (known. to him as “Harry Wills"). The
second was at the Hote? Roosevelt from 2080-2230 during which A/l
was introduced to. Mr. Harold Swenson (as "Mr. Safely") by(Webster:

2. A/l had little news to report. He said he had not been
abroad’ since his return from Europe in April, but that he plans to
make another trip to Europe in July “for about 40 days". He had
made brief trips in May to hiladelphia (b giness) and Washington
(to meet "Mr. Breitnein" - He also planned to fly
to Puerto Rico 5 June on business, Te g to- New York about

- 10 June. During the trip he was going te discuss the possibility of
establishing a shop of his jewelry fiew in San Juan, He was asked if
he expected td see Manolo RAY there and said that he probably would,
since they were friends.

3. A/1 said he had not heard recently from AMLASH/1 or AMLASH/3,
who is also now back in Cuba. He had received a letter from AMLASII/2
from Madrid dated 14 May and passed it to the case officer. (See
attached translation.) He said he expected something (anti-Castro)
to break in Cuba by October 1965, but he did not appear to have any
firm basis for this date.

4. Prior to his next trip to Europe A/l would like guidance on
two matters: 2 :

(a) What he should say to (UNBNAFU/19 when the latter raises
the question of the report given him in Paris in April
that ODYOKE might deal with anti-Castro elements if

they could get rid of Fidel.

(ob) ,Whether Ave have any candidates for him to suggest to
(i739 to work for him at the Embassy.
2

5. The possibility of A/L sending a representative to Cuba to
assess remaining loot (mainly antiques and pictures} on our behalf
is pending. (His best candidate is his Geneva rep.

- 6. At the evening session Swenson had a general discussion with
A/l, stressing the necessity of obtaining more details on the Cubans
with whom he is involved and their activities. The atmosphere was
friendly and A/i appeared to react well to S's approach and suggestions.
The groundwork was laid for follow-up conversations with A/1L, ut which
it is intended to acquire from him full biographic data preliminary to

a flutter, as well ag the information referred to above. -)
y Jew -
(gt. Wee,

 

Cie
