Vel

 

. - . SECRET

° (When Filled in)

5. I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly con-
stituted authorities to testify or provide information which I am pledged hereby
not to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also advise
said authorities of my secrecy commitments to our government and will request that
my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6. I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our gov-
ernment and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn
to by me under this oath may subject me to prosecution under the terms of these
laws; and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate
action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances war-
rant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my
signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the
mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it will be retained in the
files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me at any time
in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of
the matters included within the scope of this oath.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this = day of

o _
ie oe 19. “ x

Signature

i of. 4 , yr
Witnessed by me this day of. Chia retl 19.27 7

 

 
 

 

 

(When Filled In)

 

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

_ s o

ty et Me ED, am about to terminate my
association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my. duties with
the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which
concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that the
unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws
of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence |
sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,
WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS,
AS FOLLOWS: :

 

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-
wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-
ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,
personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited
to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government >
employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the
Organization or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have
against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the
disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such
claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am
not ‘satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any present or
future claims I -may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satisfac-
tion without prior written notice to the Organization, and then only in accordance
with such legal and security advice as the Organization will promptly furnish me.

3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified or un-
classified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the
Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties with the
Organization or otherwise.

4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Organ-
ization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the
Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should receive
official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information which it is my
duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I aware
of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially reported,
except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attachments.

FORM Ta79 SECRET RETURN TO CIA “
. Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
