13-00000

 

or a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location:
for translation. and typing.. He, Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of. the volume of Russian conversations, the translations
| usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.
| As soon as the Station learned that an 1 American identifying hime
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the:

Station started. screening all photographs. (However, here again, there |

 

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

 

but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the
technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera
at the end of. each day regardless of amount of unused. film remaining.

7 . v4 - The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
oa ; . photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign license plates. ‘Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-

 

ficulties.
Oswald came. to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line... It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

SEERET/ SENS NINE r
 

 

 

 

 

 

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in. Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made jin

. either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only -

’ these two languages and because he personally screened thé transcripts

for operational leads.

 
13-00000

|

 

 

 

“Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

_Street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental
basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-
tion received word that the photograph of the “unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

' graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middle of |
the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a

row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound.’ The
purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 xX 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early (1959, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

 
 

Proa-t0473-10403

i

 

 

 

 

i
i
“lt
i

 

 

 

Mexico Station Goverage of Soviet and Guban Embassies (1963) -

 

1. UnilateralCoverage: © _

From the time the Mexico Station was opened in April (907 untid
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station in{T955% the station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from. the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multi ine
phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a

mail intercept operation.

 

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed by an employee ofthe “localy

telephone. company who” Was} handled by a Station case officer. The number

 

of lines tapped: was limited only by the availability of a listening post

. nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

-. American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer

>-assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station

on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

E2, IMPDET
CL BY 604645

 
13-00000

i
i
i

 

 

 

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two -Anerican staff officers.
.These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever. someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a G@nilateral; mail intercept operation,

 

' LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer, ‘AcFécruifed>

 

Mexican agent, who.had a semjofficial status, obtained selected letters

 

from a subagent employed by the Mexican postal system.

2. “taison) Coverage:

     

liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

 

 

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government.. This-Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents were 1%

 

 

 

<1958,-at-the i nstigation—of a Mexicai_official, a joint tele phone “tapo

 

ny =) . my vai .
@peraticg-came iio exis tence,—The operation, which became. know asp

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

CTENVOV2aias—run- bya Mexican OFFICE. The listening post had 30 lines
Te .

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by (Mexicar>

 

chiy “officers. In 1961, thecalise*OF mismanagement by sthe=Mextcan-prin-

. ecipatss, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

-Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:
In mid-1962, the-Mextcan-of ficer—in- charge of -LIENVOY (the)

 

doint—tap operation) -asked-the American officer—at~ the LIENVOY Tistening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

 

bassies dn-anticipation_of_possible~coverage. The Station inmediately

 

<disconnected—altof “the uni laterat_telephone taps~on these-Embassies” $6,

‘that.they would not be discovered-when the Mexicans hooked-up” their

_ (taps.—_The Mexicans soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

 
