 

>it

 

4

Mr, Strange suggested that if this- procedure be followed, Subject should
Shea Le given tue name of che branch office rather than the one ia os
Philadelphia, Mr. suggested the wording of auch a letter (the basic
idea of which would be for Subject to combine business with pleasure) wich
Iwill write up (ir agreed upon by AC/PAD/¥P) in final draft, and Gover
Division will then transfer it to the appropriate letterhead. Hovever, I
advised both M’o@oomy)and Mr. Strange that before gcing into this watter | _
further, I would have to check this whole matter out with you on 14 January.

4. 4s far as financing 1s concerned, Mr. oof WH ds taking care —
of this matter and as of 13 January, the request for the advance ($2,000) —
haa been approved, The request for one-half of Tichborn's salary, ($850)
must await approve) until Subject has aligned the amendment to his contract .
(which was received by this office on today!:s date). As per your svggestion,
Mr. Strange has agreed to-provide payment of Tichborn by a check draw. _
on the cover company to be deposited with Subject's bank. (I gusss the
final decision on this will depend on how Subject wants the mmey, whether
a bank deposit or cash.) If done through the cover company and sent to

 

Tichborn's benk, wa should allow at least four or five days for the

deposit to be made, depending upon the speed of the postal system.

Sk Shel
Evdlena Vidal :
PP/PAD

 

 
‘oa t074-t0048

 

:
1
H
t
i

 

 
 

‘ny mail, since that can be taken care of on his réturn.)

fot eee terete eee man Me Ae Se I na deen Ans wat” Geek) meet elt

a _ prETURN To cia

 

- 13 Jenuary ae .

<

 

 

MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Guba ‘TDY - Edvard G. Tichboin (P) -

. . . . 3}
- 09 le On 12 January and 13 January I talked with and
of bH Division to firm up details rq Tithbarn's efing here
on 15 January and re preperations for his trip to Cuba.

2. Rg the briefing, it was decided that: (1) ean give
Subject a goneral briefing on the Cubsn political situation (the sajar one
will be undertaken by the Staticn), (2) Subject will be given sanitized
copies of the Perlonge (7) repart Section IV, and of the repert
prepared. by-the Plans Branch/PP/rRD entitled “Target Study of Opposition
Groups in Cubs" to be read by Subject while at the briefing and then returned
to-us.. Sas observations. on security will probably also be mede at: this

time in addition to instructions on the manner of keeping and subaitting hig

financial accounting. - (It should. ba mentioned here also that WH Finance/admin
(Mr is of the opinion that since Tichbdorn will return to Washingtor
in about 25 woeks time, it is not necessary for him to subuit his accounts

_ 3, The problem which seamed to need most careful conaideraticon was

that of hig. cover while in Cuba, In talking to operational contacts he

makes ‘there the cover story suggested by the Station. in IN-47609 of 12 Now.:

1959 appears adequate. However, according to Pan American Airways, upon

arrival in Havana the viaitor is {ssued.a tourist card by the Cuben
Immigration authorities. One must state his profession at this time, which.
should present no problem to Tichborn. It could be that one is also asked
his reason for being in.Cuba, In this case, WH has suggested that the
answer of." tourist® would be best since less suspicion would be placed on
Subject in the beginning. The important aspect, however,. appears to be
that of covering Tichbarn as well as possible in the event that he runs.
afoul of the Cuban authorities due to the nature of his activities and his
contacts. I brought this matter up with WH and they agreed that some kind
of backstopping might be a good idea. As a result, I contacted Mr. Strange |
of Cover Division who assured me that, if ne~essary, an appropriate letter
could be provided Tichborn from 3 cover com spyThe one finally decide

on as the most logical was thet dof the cover ccapany; in 24

hich iad ofiginally been provided far funding Tichborn,

ae | §

 

 
