104-10220-10327 ..

 

  

 
 
  

 

 

-— OS it ek aoe
, . ” a peoMirsesate
: mp os
ue ty - 2. ‘ , :
eo? .
foe « ¢ = .
te * §," Phle explanation. of hie posttion was @ part of a .
om Gomeuhat drawn out diaousston of the ourrent extie political
cijbs. a 8itaation., Hisivd nd, bear ropeating heret Sets
period that ig ; ]
FALN-5° be“oritieised ‘on. the g ‘Ou ons i
: d
30' or, . , r
Da numb
Ange1-QUEVEDO,
QUIN’ quietly” oo
d‘ shore) wth 4 yf
Ba,
i‘! Minon wa ‘finally chose a.
* .of the five of use, “I
She ARP, and to a a
pdhere are tuo maya
‘ ‘

 
Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)

104-10220-10327

  

NW 53217 6/20/17
3 AR TO ICL TIL, SIO, 2 LOTITO TE TPIT TATE ET ST "= oe meena
ie ‘ . ae te gee
4 ae 3 aoe)
; deseo
) —

a0 . : . aa F

 
  

* Convereation between AMWALL andg
2F October 1900 if
, 1 an

   
 
  
  

 

   

ome seagate sti ‘aesiened ta Headquarters
Sen tgsasen a request from AMWATL for a meeting .tn New

; » whieh countere! with t ygestion that. the
geoting we bebd instead in Miam! on next trip, Accord.

 

 

  

 

er . ingly> } called AMWAIL* on 27 0 ant ‘get up 8 mo E
ar atithe Goaarese Airport, dans a “f iP ee ,

 

‘ay t AMW ALL sald ‘that he would be tn kurepe from, apprexi-
mately 9 to.29 November’ and that ‘he would be seaing Victer
Raul HAYA ‘de ,la” Torre during -tnisitnip..s He proposed a

-. meeting of. Latin: ‘Anerteag. non-Comminint? left tet parties to be
organized by HAYA.:" Th ) as. been presented, to Head.

f quarters’. in .MASH- n231R "9 . hat

. tye _  ° ir

° 93,7 on his: velora fede Europe . 'AMWAIL tntende ‘to spend
about thirty daya overgseaing tne setivities of threa of the

FHD oonmittees;.intealligance and Informatien, franaportation,
He fe impatient with: the progress of these

      
       

and ona other.
committees an? hopes to do somathing to accelerate ‘their '
aqtivilttes tess did not- reveal the rerently arranged slose

edordination i topo ZAMKA and AMAAIL-3 on Tf and I activities.)
Hegarding transportation, AMWAIL aaid that ca had lined up a
PT boat which he hopes. te saute, for commando operations agatnat.

Cuban coastal ettasd, ” . : FAS

4, AMHAIL'a atateadate Jconcerning the PRD and the MAY
may help'to clarify recent reports that he nas been .on the
varge of deserting the formér for the lattar, About two weens
ago,.or in mid-Ootober, AM4AIL waa invited ty CHIBAS and
ESTEVEZ to Join the ARP, AMHAIL does fee} that the MRF 13 tn
many ways gore representative of tha Cuban pipulation than the
ma FRO, but he nevertheless turred down the invitation on the ty
grounds that he had bean ‘responsible for bringing a number of 7
“people into the PRD and trat he could not n-w desert them,

     

 
104-10220-10327 ...

 

lam sn -~ as

ae RT TTT ME ~ SYP ENEL TT YET Te: STE
aan : Pe nett, Teme “e
Wen I STE Spe
fit a i an . rr a . in
go : , ia opt

4 . ! os 1

. ; i

 
 
  
 
 
 
 

of dutng this, One would be conceding tn the mae.
js perbape three seate on the Lsecubive Committe,
, giving one to the/Alianza,
t

 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

the auprene coord: nator ner’ way d de
+ wight, but the need: 1a urgent since: the HAP fo. +
a | rowing. in ste cure, every eid and- we are losing to. it."

 

“He rouerked rather. trontoally that when.
attacked by RUBLO Padilla and
o ain Fidel.” Wow that. tha ©
a8 a ; Ang the sawe.charge®. =.) pat
Against: it, and in return the PAD has now been placed -in the | ..
oaition of sccapting! BATIBTA. collaboration and of appearing .
. type of etonomto system which
existed under "BATISTA, In truth, the FAD. has never delineated:
“its: @CONOIE philo ophy ap it should! ‘nave ‘much cariter,: Thera! ;
. on it 18 trae, “put about. half of its a o
0- om a reagtionary group which wishes to °
ats gonfiacated jands to their origina) :
: bt 6s: tok, An syapathysand $e
PI Get ae

AL
“Coneernin wilitery, puanatag!AnshtL had this:

 

    

    
 

 

   

" tg in “the iD are. iw ‘the? ‘unfortunate position
of. not knowing the plans of sither the CASTRO govern-

“moat or the United States government, We ara sort of od
i ‘flying on instruments!’ but of one thing I sm very
.gura, Unless the United’ Statea’has.a numberof very + is ,

, effective penetrations © of tha rebel'army and the"
"milveia, wa must be ‘praparad to: sendin an invading
foree-of no lessithan 5,000 aencif we are to havo.any - '
hope of sucecass. I” “know that we have sant fewer than
"600 men to the ining eamps,-'Thia forces by iteelf

‘ wid) ‘not te sufficient to overthrow, the CASTRO government,”
, , A

“BL” Peastatatio aa his ‘Yast statement may sound, “AMHAIL
still. remains optiniatio abous the eventual outcome, J ohe feels '
that even.if nothing 1s done to speed the downfall of CASTRO, . 3
_ this. “alll coma’ about within the next ten or twelve months. His
-eoneern, therefore, is” that | the dcwunfall take place much. svonar
than that. Aa he putea 1t, “Presidant NIXON or President
KEWHEDY muat not be forced to have Cuba on the agenda when he
moete ad ia KARUSCHEY someting next. OPE AMB

   
   

By

  
   

orig'é: c/auare

 
