74-00000

, . . . :

initial reaction was to avoid getting involved, but through
.Maheu's persuasion he agreed to introduce him to a friend,
Sam Gold... Roselli made it clear that ae would not want
any money for his part, and he believed that Gold would
feel the same way. Neither of these individuals were. ever paid

out of Agency fonds. — Dota

4. During the week of 25 September 1960, Haheu was
introduced to Gold at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.
During this meeting Maheu also met an individual identified -
as "Joe" who.was supposedly a courier operating between Lo

~.. »,Havena and Miami. Several weeks later Maheu saw photographs

“: tof both of these individuals in the Sunday Supplemental = —
Parage. Thay were identified as Mome Salvatore Giancana
and Santos Trafficant. Both were on the list of the
Attornsy General's ten most wanted men. Giancana was -
described as the Chicago Chieftan of the Cosa Nostra and
successor to Al Capone. Trafficant was identified as the .
Cosa Nestra boss of Cuban cperations. Mshen called this ~

' O£Fice immediately upon ascertaining this information. .

: 5. «In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing
_the mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms
“but that he be. furnished some type of potent pill that could

be placed in Castro’s food or drink. Gold indicated that
he had a prospective nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a .

Cuban official who had been receiving kickback payments for --
a gambling interest and who still had access to Castro and -. °
was still in a financial bind. ~ - OE

. . 6. TSD was requested to preduce six pills of high -*

- lethal content which were then delivered to Orta by “Joe.” ° .-
After several weeks of reported atrempts,.Orta apparently ..--2
got cold feet and asked out of the assignment. He suggested.
another candidate who made several attempts without success.
"Joe" then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, ones of the - 9).
principal officers in the Cuban exile junta, had become ~~ + =
disaffected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the -
junta and was willing to handle the mission through. his.
own resources. Verona asked that he he given 310,000 for
organization expenses and reauested..$1,000 worth of communi-
cations equipment. Dr. Verona's potential was.never fully
exploited as the mission was cancelled shortly after the — . {
-Bay of Pigs épisode. Verona was advised the offer was
withdrawn, and the pills were retrieved. At the héight of

.

 

Nn

 

 

EST AEB ae ame inet aren am en et, Men EE te SRN cee

 
 

    
 
    
   
     
    
  
  
    
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
   
 
   

 

ee ee Gold asked Mahen to coed 2 bug in.
ei. room to determine the extent of with ”

c - The technician involved in the assignment
was discovered in the process, arrested, and taken to the
sheriff's office for questioning. He called Maheu in the
presence of sheriff's personnel and informed him that ke
had been detained. Subsequently, the Department of Justit:
announced its S intention to prosecete Maheu slong with the
- $echnician. “UA February 1962 the Director of Security -
briefed the then Attorney General Robert Xennedy on the circun~ ~~
stauces leading up to Makeu’s involvement in the wiretap. At

_ our requast, prosecution was dropped. . .

aah Tn ‘May 1962 Mr. William Harvey took over es Roselli's

case officer and it is not known if he was used officially ...
‘Erom that point on. It was subse equentiy learned from ths ane
FBI thet Roselli had been convicted on six counts involving ,
‘illegal entry into. the United States sone tine during ts
Novencer 1967. “On 2 December 1968 Roselli along with four :
other individuals was convicted of conspiracy to cheat vee --
members of the Friar's Club of $400,090 in a rigged gin - .
-Fummy.game. Nr. Haryey reported his contacts “wath Roselli
to this office during Novenber and Decezber of 1967 and

- . January £1963. Roselli was facing deportation at that
tine but feit that he would win an appeal. . :

.f. . 8.” On 47 Novenber 1579 Me. Maheu called’ Janes O'Connell, :-*
.- '{.Roselii’s first case officer, to advise that Haheu's attorney,
Ed Morgan had received a call from Thomas Waddin, Roseili's .
attorney, who stated that ail avenuas of appeal had been ex- «-.
hausted and Roselli faced deportation: Waddin indicated that Lo
. ££ someones did not intercede on Roselli's behalf, he would :
make a complete expose of his activity with the Agency. On
13 November 1970 Mr. Helms was briefed on’ this latest develop- .
- ment and it was decided that the Agency would not in any way
‘assist Roselli. Maheu was advised of the Agency's position ._-
- and was in complete agreement. . He stated that he was not
concerned about any publicity as it affected hin personally
should Roselli decide to tell all. Subsequently Roselli or
somgone on his behalf furnished Jack Anderson detaiis of the
operation. Anderson wrote two columns regarding this operation

3
.  & . Sow
‘ ae ag . te

SUBJECT: The Johnny Roselli Matter

1. In August of 1960 Mr, Richard Bissell approached . ale
the then Director of Security, Colonel Sheffield Edwards, ~~
to determines if the Office of Security hsd any assets that
might assist in a sensitive mission requiring gangster-type.
action. The mission target was Fidel Castro. Because of :
its extreme sensitivity, only = small group was knowledgeable
of the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his approval. -
Colonel J. C. Xing, Chief, WH Division, was briefed, but all -
details were concealed Fron any of the JIMIAVE officials. : .
Certain TSD and Communications personnel participated in... :
the initial planning stages but were not witting of the. -
purposes of the mission. . : a 2

_Z. Robert Maheu was contacted, briefed generally on

the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop
@n entree inte gangster elements. Mr. Mahe adyised that he
had met one Johnny Roselli on several ocessions whila visiting
Las Vegas. Maheu knew Roselli caly casually through Cclionts .
but had been given to understand that Roselli.was a high |
ranking member of the “Syndicate” and controlled 211 of tha

" ice making machines on tho Strip. Maheu was asked to =~
approach Roselli, who knew Meher as a personal relations ~
executive handling domestic and foreign accounts. Maheu oe
was to tell Roselli that he had recently been obtained by a cli
ent who represented several international business firms which. .~

_ were suffering heavy financial losses in-Cuba as a result of ~

Castro's action, These firms were convinced that Castro's 9
Yenoval was the answer to the problem and were willing to | -
pay 2 price of $150,000 for its successful accomplishment. Se,
It was to be made clear to Roselli that the United States . wot
Government was not and should not become aware of this ae
operation. te, . ; son mo

3. The pitch was sade to Roselli on 14 September 1960 '
at the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. Mr. James O'Connell,
ffice of Security, was present daring this meeting sad was a
identified to Roselli as ay employee of Maheu. O'Connell - . ;
actively served as Raselli'’s contact until May 1962 at which
time he phased out due to an overseas assignment. Roselli's

     

wth A Pi iB ote Rh tem Be

Rist Ph a EBB mee ance mein tee en
14-00000
. a te
‘ ae
> . .

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

 

_ the neeting viace for and Miss Late>

' the sane day, by pre-arran i, two Department of State
Security ‘Agents, a i lieutenant and 2a.
hired chautfeur arrfivéd wit Hiss :

 

 

 

 

renained, at..the site through CO ]
Ce ee ree Visited each evening and remained Sor about
sour to five hours. _ : :
4. During the stay at the[  —Sss—s—sédsitte, Miss CC)
Le -:
i

‘discussed at some Length w
Security representatives. She Speculated about the possible
sources of certain personal information that she felt had

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

been Additionally she spske of her
sep Feeling for and commented on how
initiall ‘3 er out to serves as a party €on-
panion for At the time she said she was unclear
< as to just what pant Mr. wanted her te play. In
, attempting: to clarify his case Hr. said, "Iam o° -s esse. +:

. employed by the CIAL: We want you to go te bed with hin.” . -

Miss isaid she rejected the proposal but. finally went
to the party. She became auite taken with and
found him to be most charming. - oo :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: S- All personal contacts by Security representetives _

. in this case were under gtias and “inplied .

~ affiliation. There is no record or fAdicaFion in any of the -
files in this case that involves Robert Maheu by name of .
reference. tis believed that Mr. Maheu was never intro-
‘duced to Miss and as far as can be determined .

 

 

“fronted” for all arrangements. Office of Security

. investigation conducted variously from 25 May through .
417 September 1959 of reflected no substantive
derogetory information regar ing her. - . : - wena’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a ee oe a a
 

:
i e Bak”
a oe thie AERO on, ete trast PARR err cs OORT a,» Reems Mn maT rent: Lac AEE Ao BEETS ee

particularly the use of audio devices by private investigators.
In July of 1966, Senetor Long was alerted to the fect thet

the Agency had had sensitive operational contacts with Maheu.
Senator Long was told that the Agency had used Maheu over

the years on a number of occasions but that he had never

been asked to engage in any wiretapping and had never

engaged in any such activities on our behalf. Office of
Security files do not indicate whether or not Mahen did

appear before this Subcommittee, although it appears thar

he did not,

In January of 1971, in light of the involvement’ of
Maheu in a suit between executives of the Hughes Company
and Msheu, the Director of Security recommended to the DCI
that all existing clearances with Maheu and Associates be
terminated. The BCI concurred in. this recommendation.

Files of this Office reflect that Subject’s company,
Mahen and Associates, cooperated with_the Agoncy in supporting
the activities of an[ |GLOBE agent,
in Ecuador. a

 

 

 

 

A memorandum from the Chief, Contral Cover Staff to
the Inspeotor General dated 19 Cctober 1973, delineates the
relationship between CCS and Robert Maheu and Associates,

Information regarding the possibility that Subject was
invelved in a leak of information concerning a sensitive
DD/S§T Special Projects Staff project is set forth in
Attachnent C.

Subject's son Peter Robart Maheu was a staff employes
of the Agency and of this Office from 1963 to 1964. He was
a.cle¢ical employes. In February of 1969, Peter Maheu :
was granted a covert security approval as an employee of
Mahew and Associates for use on Project QRENCHANT.

  

r a
14-00000

w

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUBJECT: Robert Maheu - Incident - st oe
1. Im connection with the/ Joo:
th So

 

 

 

WSS TEQUSSTSA CO Tender specia SUPP ort...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae de
- .during the Los Angeles and New York phases ‘of the tour. . 24
Acc ding tn NEA*narsannel MeSpTS * Norman Panl, .
“and as especially desirous oF
jand.it

 

female conpanionship'
was requested that arpropriats arrangements be made through
2-controlled source of the Office dn order to assure a
satisfied visit. . : . oo .

 

te

2. On 3 “‘Roril 1959 Mr. ‘Robert Maheu, a cleared Office
‘ef Securit ty contact, was asked to arrange a party for
i at Los Angeles,. California. This was done by oN
Rr. Saiee through Mr. Glamis. Mr. am is el -
preninent~ Megs attorney end Memeggemert fisure pre- -. 2 cee

viously ereaated a covert security approval for use oY FE

Bivisi = rrangenent, during the course of this :
party was intreduced to GERRI, a vart~. .
tine Fae) Stage actress. pfer the tesation of 49g

 

 

 

 

 

stay in Los Ange? es, 5» he :
became intimate friends’ It was indicated :

 

 

  
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

an
- by 2 who was integrated into the party, a a
I. (lthat desired to continue his frie€Adship wi th bocT>
Hiss. t he wished tc meet with her during his’ - te
. stay Le Loe ie
. 3. errangements.were made to rent tha’ ~. ~
home of mM, an Office of Sacurity source, ~~ -+

at Long Beach, Long Island, for the period]
- The home was to be used as a confidential meeting

prlacs and , «At the sane time
Miss was registered at the Hotel

é
Street,
of Ei Paso, Texas.
— - a |eSheb publicity

ion had been mads of the SE becksround of Miss
| Miss were transported

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ment

 

 

wt.

 

 

 

 

toe the homes onf*«Y| Which was taken over-as

 

Bose, Pee aber bane Bs gaint mee a an

   

— sametnneca ind! ye

ER as

ae

 

g
¢
£

 
  
74-00000

. 2_Max i
‘procuring and transporting prostitutes for |
. during ivisit to the United

During this operation Maheu had his staff prepare a
paper citing dangers to U. S. economy and trade resulting

-from the Onassis deal. Through contacts in FOA, Maheu

had Harold Stassen read this paper in the National Security
Council on 22 June 1954. During this same pericd Maheu
briefed Scott HNcLeod, Assistant Secretary of State for
Security and Consular Affairs on the project. McLeod
agreed to furnish State commo and pouch facilities subject
to Jonn Foster Dulles' approval. Additionally, Maheu
briefed J. Edgar Hoover and Vice President Nixon.

In August of 1954, Maheu advised this Office of his rela-
tionship with Niarchus. NEA Division was contacted and -
expressed interest in this matter. They were put in touch
with Maheu and furnished him a como channel,-a pouch system
and operational guidance, International litigation erupted
as a result of the Onassis/Niarchus matter, and.as a result
of Niarchus claiming Government privilege in the case, the
Agency was subsequently identified as being the Government
agency involved. Files of this Office reflect extensive
correspondence furnished us by the Gffice of General Counsel
in 1956 regarding the Onassis matter.

Cn 16 August 1954 Subject was granted a covert security,
clearance for utilization as an agent under Project
in the Near East. On 30 August 1954 he was granted & Sifiilar
clearance to permit his use in the United States as a covert

associate und P PHIDDEN. In November of 1957, a
cable fron indicated that Mr. Maheu had
allegedly been Involved In a violation of

 

 

 

 

 

Nr. Maneu contacted this Office to advise that the allegations
were without foundation and stated that he would take steps ..
immediately to have his attorney sée that appropriate
officials would retract the charges. This was
subsequently done. Edward Bennett Williams acted as Maheu's
lawyer in this matter.

_ In 1957 information was received indicating that during .
President Sukarno's visit to Moscow in the fall of 1956, he was
introduced to a Soviet woman within the Kremlin. He had
an affair with her against the admonitions of his advisers.

It was reported that the Soviets took detailed films of the
affair and that a copy was sent to the PKI. In June of 1957
Al Ulmer and'Samuel Halpern, FE Division, contacted the

 
 

([tostotzz-1074

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu

Mr. Robert A. Mahev was born on 30 October 1917 in
Waterville, Maine. He graduated from Holy Cross College in 1949
and is married with four Children. He was employed as a
Special Agent with the FBI from 1940 to 1947, and upon re-

“Signing from the Bureau, formed a private enterprise doing

business as “Dairy Dream Products." This venture culminated
in bankruptcy in 1952. He then re-entered Government service
with the Small Business Administration in Washington, D. C.,
and was appointed Special Assistant to the Administrator with

reasons, determined to be tha result of backing the wrong

‘political party in the election. He then set up his own

investigative organization known as Robert A. Naheu Associates,

Mr. Mahou was recruited by the Office of Security in
March of 1954. He was previously known to Mr. Robert H.
Gunningsham (deceased) who Was, at that tine, Chief, Special
Security Division, through their mutual employnent by the |
FBI. Cunninghaa saw in Maheu a covert asset who could be
utilized by the Office in extremely sensitive cases. ‘With
the approval of the Director of 5ecurity, Subject was offered
& proposition wherein he was to receive $500.00 per nonth,
with the stipulation that he move into his own office and

Security. He agreed toe this and inmediately took steps to
move out of his area, where he rented desk space in a suite |
occupied by Carmine 8S, Bellino, a former PBI agent and CPA.

In July of 1954, Maheu was engaged by “British shipping
interests” to check on Aristotle Onassis' activities while ; i
in the United States. This included technical coveragsa of
Onassis’ New York office. -It was later learned that the
principal “British interest" was Stavros Niarchus and thar
the ultimate goal of this task was to scrap the Onassis/

Saudi oil deal. Maheu took the job but conditioned his
acceptance with the fact that he would do nothing inimical

fo the U. S. Government. Any information developed of interest
to the United States was to be passed by MNaheu to the appro-
priate Government agency.

1
|
|
|

    

ar a ERE
tS ae ed i er 6 se OTA thea eM ey TER IER mt Rig te Bite EEE SIE

tn aE rates Bat eet, oe PVA ue TA He ot EFM ee Site Ney at

PES te OS Bin Rk Ey rt Ret .
 

Director of Security and outlined a project wherein they
envisioned a film being made simulating this affair. It

was planned that clips from this film would be inserted in

a lesflet for distribution throvghout Southeast Asia sug-
gesting that Sukarno was compromised by the Soviets. In
July of 1957, Robert Maheu was given this assignment. He
utilized a trusted male employee of this organization (since :
deceased) and his fiance. Maheu after an intensive make-up :
course, administered the make-up to the participants himself, i
utilizing available pictures and descriptious of the subjects :
as a guide. He hired a studio where he was given detailed
instrection on the use of the lights and camera. When the .
film was taken, only Haheu and the two participants were in
the studio. The project known as “Happy Days,” was never
conpleted and the film was not distributed.

. Files..of this O£fice reflect that during the 19558-1959
period, FE Division was put in touch with Maheu by this - 8
Office for assistance in another operation relating to : |
[ This project was originated in Mey 1958 :
When FE Division initially contacted the Director of Security

 

 

 

and briefed him on the project known as Basically,
the project capitalized on ; known weakness :
1

 

 

for Coucasion women. Robert Maheu was given the assignment ;
to locate a fenale-candidate. He advised that 2 proninsnt
‘attorney and “man about town,’ could
come up with a qualified woman. was anvestigated with
‘ favorable results and given a CSA on’ but was not
nade witting of CIA interest. The femaie candidate was
a well-to-do widow, approximately
years oz > dent of considered to be . i
highly intelligent_and extremely attractive: In August of
1958, the Project plan was concurred in by the COPS :
and the DCI. , ; i

 

    
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

Office, met with in New York City. was
briefed on Agency in t in the matter. Tater ri September
Maheu met with in New York City under his true

name and told her of goVernnental interest. knew
Heheu’s true ideatity having been introduced to hin socially.

aad

byl On the same day (25 September 1953), @Qpmegingyp
was introduced to Joseph Snith, FE Bivision (known to DOTA

j
: : 2 oe : : \
: and Haheu as Joseph Sins). was briefed on the
assignment, indicated that she understood exactly what was j

: ; i

in Soptenter 2 1958, Naheu and Janes O’Connel?, of this»

 

 

 

 

 

wa

     

  

eS

Bh cette mest atta canna eed neninnns Meee centres, dhe tLe a at Neotel ew hee STE NP te Ey Ht ch Boasings TT EME
14-00000

a

ted of her and stated that she could deave the country

expec
in 45 days. On 24 September 1955 "Sins" Beain met with .

    

di be accenpanied by

 

 

et which time she was told she wot
a” tenale trayelj companicn, Hogarth (actually

FE Division; : S$ told that “iiozarth"
would ostensibly be her secretary but would be, in fact,
the person she would look to for direction.

  

 

 

Records of this Office do not reflect any of the
activities of MMe during the course of her mission. It

is known that she did meet Sukarno, but due to unforrunate
timing that had hin leaving his country on official business,
she had Little time to cultivate hin. Consequently, the
purpose of the nission was not fulfilled. The last known
contactes@@—A had with the Agency was in the form of a tele-
Phone call on 12 April 1961 when she called on a sterile line

anc talked ta Mr. Hugh Tovar, who. she knew-as George Henry.
She adyised that one “had asked her to sive 2
party for President SWkAFAO Who would be in Los Angeles on

21 April’ 2561. wanted to know whether the Agency was
interested in Spousoring this party. A negative response
was given. :

 

in June of 1959, a covert security approval vas assued
fcr the use of Maheu by IO Division in order for hin to be
approached and advised of Agency interest in International
Labor. Files of this Office do not reflect whether or not
this was done. On 7 Cctober 1959 a covert security approval

was granted for Mr. Maheu's use in the United States. Th
request_for approval indicated that Subject might be employed.
ater

 

by the! to handle| public relations in
the United States. Nir. Maheu’'s i. ts
~ - = fening

 

 
   

 

 

    

      

 

 

arc.

 

 

aor ae

 

In August of 1969, Richard M. Bissell, the then pD/p
contacted the Director of Security regarding the Roselli

metter. Details concerning this are set forth in Attachnent 3B.

In 1966 information was received by the Agency indicating
that the Senate Administrative Practices Subcommittee, under
the chairmanship of Senator Edward V. Long, had advised Maheu
that his testimony was dosired concerning his relationship
with Onassis, Savros Niarchos, Sam Giancana and &

 
  

The Subcommittee interest was invasion of privacy and

 
