74-00000

SECRET
72s

*

 

a in Spain (which Espinosa entered illegally), Espinosa was ine

i’ formed that there is a plan to overthrow the Castro regime

! and to kill Castro and some of his main leaders, The plot is

i ied by Cubelag and some of the March 13 Movement, plus (I be-

i. lieve) some military officera,. They must move very quickly

u because more and more people are learning of the plot and

‘: there is growing risk cf exposure, They are anxious to have

i some coordination, or at least con -iltation, with responsible

i Acericans, They are not confident that they could win an alle

} out fight against the Castro forces, and are thinking more in

f : terms of taking contrcl for a short time (perhaps only a few
hours), killing Castro and-his-most- effective men (thus 7
ruining the Castro movement forever), and then trying to hold

out for as long as feasible, It is essential that they know” =
what, if anything, the Americans might do to help, now and/or :
jater, when the coup 1s attempted, Also, they wished to alert

the United States Government to what was being planned.

: The Cubans might have turned to the @IA . ft
- .. wan in(Madrid) However, they believe 8 completely —
unreliable. A Cuba ent to tid some time age by 3
the Castro people. was fooled by her and, being

wery fond of women, sét her up ir an apartment in Madrid, He
algo arranged for her to work with the International Rescue
Committee, When the proper moment came, four months ago, she
flew back to Havana with some very useful files, In these

€ he Cuban plotters have no confidence whatever
oo They urgently asked Espinosa to be their gow
betWeen WITK Feliable American Officials. The “top security"
man returned to Havana, while one Yvepresentative of the
plotters waited in Spain for sn answer, ; ; ;
Espinosa hurriedly returned to New York Clty, Hs called
O'Brien of the New York FBI to ask chat the latter arrange for
hie to talk with some eerious and reliable man from CTA,
O*Brien did so, Eapinose then told the foregoing story, and
more, to 6 CIA man named "Hal". Hal impresacd Espinosa as
being intelligent and reliable, Espinosa understands that Hal
@¥ someone else want to Spain to check on nig story, At all
events, Espinosa was assured CIA understood the urgency of the
wmtcer Gnd chat he would be called within 2 few daya, A waek
has pacaed, However, no call has come and time iz rapidly

SECRET

 

Se enn ER ena nme ET

 
 

‘0g 40269-10047

- Y
Tals decumant cansie:. of -+' =~ pages a {

i aad “ furter of . ..f- coptos, sertes 2
. SECRET
ARA/CCA ~ Mr. Stevenson July 9, 1965

ABA - George Lister

Visit of Cuben Elle Victor Espinosa

In accordance with our conversation yesterday I have set
forth below a report on che visit of Victor Espinosa.

 

A Venezuelan Christian Democratic friend of mine, Valmore
Acevedo, called me from Mew York City yeaterday morning to ask
a@@ @ personal favor that I receive a Cuban exile Living there .
who had something “amazing” to tell me. When I expressed mild
skepticism, Acevedo urgently repeated his request and I agreed, :
Within « surprisingly short time the Cuban, Victor Espinosa, i
arcived at my office (he said he had taken the plane immedi- ‘
ately). Espinosa gave his addresa aud telephone number as
follows: 415 Bast 52nd Street, HA 1-7875, A summary of his
statements follows.

See

; ‘Espinosa has been involved in Cuban liberation activities —
for many yeare, He opposed Batista and opposes Castro, He is
Got a member of the March 13 Movement, but has long been very -.
Close to many of its leaders, including Cubelag, Espinosa was.

 

t

t

t

. Latin American affairs, He was told Acevedo knew such an _ i

He ofticial, Eépinosa asked Acevedo (without, he claims, re-— ;
S vealing his story), and ths latter called me,

from one of his reliable Cuban contacts in Europe, asking that
he come there quickly. Espinosa went to Miami, obtained falas - |
Cubsn papers, and went to Paris, There, apparently in the my
presence of the Cuban Ambassador to France, he met one of the. F
top security” man of the Castro rezime, who had come to Paris
for that purpose. During various ueetings, beth te Frence end

|
A little eardier this year Espinosa received a request
:
i

      

i
§ |
Grou V |
BEERS alwtad Cron autowatle i
* ading an i
, ” witivation i
+ seanemeenere erere on “ |
74-0000

cee]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET

oe

running out. Espinosa's friends in Paris keep calling him,
cautiously asking whether there has been some "reaponse”,

but Espinosa has had to keep putting them off. Meanwhile,
the Cuban who was waiting in Spain for the answer has had to
return, Espinosa keeps waiting to hear whether che Americans
will play ball with the Cubelag group. The plot has lasted —
for ovey 18 wonths, and the plotters plan to go ahead very
goon no matter whether the Americans “play ball" or not, Ons
reason is that they almost have to go ahead now, for tiie plot
will soon be discovered and then it will be entirely hopeless,

spinosa also referred to a jaweler by the name of
Teppeliino (spelling?), located at 47th Street, in New York
City. Teppe}iine worke for CIA and has frequent contact with

_ the Cuban Ambassador, in Paris, The Ambassador regularly dis~
poses of jewelry and other valuables made available from Cuba,

He does this through Teppéliinc, However, the latter fools

GIA, , For example, the Ambassador agrees to sell for $80,000.

Teppeliino informs CIA the price is $110,000, and, quietly
pockets the difference, On the other hand, TeppeJiino and
CIA think the Cuban Aniesrador does not know he is working for
CIA, but the Ambassador does iknow,

Espinosa is determined to bring the very dangerous
eituation of the Cuban plot to the attention of some top level
official in the United States Government unless he receives

_ @t least some reply from CIA.

Conment 3

Eapinosa was not overly tense aud did not indulge in hise
triontcs, but 2 felt he was quite determined tc push chile
watter further if he did not get some response within the very
near future, I cannot, and do not have to, judge his reife
ability on the basia of thia one conversation, However, if ¥
het to guese at thie point I would be inclined to accept moat

whee he aaid about aatual eventa, Sut of course thera are
ali sorte of obvious possibilities, including provocation,

Im accordance with what we agreed on, while Espinosa was

SESE

 

 

 

 

 

Spewacer
 

 
     
   
     

waiting, I returned and told him at some length that of course |

this was not the sort of thing we got into, However, I added
that I would see to it that someo!

Kowever, I doubt very much that he will wait longer
days more before making another attempt to

 
