 

 

 

important issues that they have, so far as the Agency and the Kennedy
assassination are concerned. After considerable exchange we have been
advised that the staff no longer is interested in the question of
Nosenko's bona fides, per se. The interest is now focussed on what
Nosenko knew about Lee Harvey Oswald; questioning on this point
apparently is intended to be detailed and intensive. If Nosenko's
bona fides are not an issue the need to address the sensitive aspects
of his knowledge, and the operational use made of it, may not become

a security problem. That information, however, is revealed in varying
degrees in some of the material reviewed by the HSCA. While we may
have some reservations about how the Nosenko problem is handled by the
HSCA, and personally how he is handled, the earlier concerns of security
consideration currently are somewhat reduced.

6. Mexico City. The HSCA staffers have stated that CIA coverage
in Mexico City is one of the two important issues on which they currently
are focussing. The subject matter is classically one of intelligence
sources and methods. Additionally, it involves the relationships of
the Agency with |

 

 

 

 

 

Tastingly harmful to Agency operations in this “important post.

7. Final Report. The Committee is faced with the problem of
credibility. It functions under the generally reserved atmosphere
in Congress towards CIA which creates pressure to write a tough report
that shows the independence of the investigators. While a report of
Agency coverage in Mexico can be written using euphemisms for how the
coverage existed, the pressures will be to spell it out in detail.
We foresee some difficulties when the time comes for CIA's review of
the report for security considerations.

8. Performance of the Agency. The HSCA charter includes per-
formance of the intelligence agencies. Part of the vulnerability of
the Agency to criticism today is that different perceptions have
evolved than existed at the time of the Warren Commission investi-
gation. The Agency's performance during the Warren Commission inquiry
has already been criticized in the Church Committee report {by Senator
Schweiker) in a badly drafted critique. While the Schweiker draft is
flawed, the Agency is subject to criticism in some respects, and an

internal CIA study so stating has been reviewed by HSCA investigators.
We do not know to what extent there will be criticism of the Mexico

City Station although critical observations have been elicited from
Agency employees about management there during the Warren Commission
investigation. HSCA staffers have indicated that they will be critical
of the CIA handling of Nosenko (despite thetw own readiness to give

 
 

[0g t0145-10137] «. . oe

Ct a a . ( 49 JUN 1978
2 ae
Se U
. ocr am Problems With HSCA

BY)

1. To date the Problems with HSCA have not been major, but
some of the difficulties to date may assume increased importance in
the remaining period of the investigation. This memorandum under-
takes to consider some of them.

 

provide it, possibly because it will reveal the direction of the in-
vestigation. Two.things characterize the present status of HSCA and

CIA responses.. There are a number of requests that have not yet been
answered, and the larger portion of material made available for review
has not yet been reviewed by HSCA investigators. CIA recently has made
arrangements to improve its responses to requests, but the basic problem
will remain. We feel HSCA is falling behind and that it will be critical
of the Agency for its own failures in this respect.

F 3. Access. The FBI reportedly has provided no direct access

to its files for HSCA investigators. CIA is providing direct access

to its files with very limited sanitization. The result is the in-
vestigators have had access to a lot of sources-and-methods material.

The criticism that HSCA investigators can make is not in our restrictions,
but the effectiveness of our responses. As noted above, steps have been
taken to remedy this. :

 

4. Access to Agents. In contrast to very full access to Agency
files and documents the Tine has been drawn on access to.agents. One
agent was interviewed over CIA objections, following the failure to
notify CIA of the intention to interview him as provided for in the
working agreements. In one other case of which we are aware we have
objected to an agent being interviewed and, in the absence of CIA
assistance, he was not contacted nor interviewed. This is the subject
of a formal protest by the HSCA chairman. The DDCI has offered a
method, alternative to direct access to the agent, for obtaining the
answers desired,

5. Defectors. As a result of the dramatic presentations in the

Epstein Book Legend the HSCA has focussed on this issue. Staff members
have stated recently that they consider this to be one of the two most

RIES

 
 

 

C

him a hard time when the question ts no longer real). They are aware
that the Rockfeller Commission has already reported on this but will
probably indulge themselves in a reprise.

9. Style. A number of the HSCA investigators have experience
as criminal prosecutors. They are accustomed to dealing with criminals
that they intend to convict. In the present instance the testimony
that they take is not tested by the usual cross examination; as. we do
not know some of the lines they have taken, we do not know what re-
search to conduct that may balance the perspectives they may be 2
developing. Some of those who have testified have gained the opinion
that HSCA investigators are trying to prove theories, sometime critical
of the Agency, as distinguished from gathering all the facts in a
balanced picture. Because of the HSCA approach. our views on this are
for the large part visceral, but are sufficiently firm to give us some
concern for the kinds of conclusions that we eventually will encounter
and not have time to check out. .

10. Security. Due note should be taken at this time that the
HSCA, in its reorganized form under Mr. Blakey, has an unusual record
for security. We are aware of no leaks. Nevertheless, we are antic-
ipating difficulti j i - Beyond that,
we are concerned that when Mr. Blakey's discipline is gone some of his
staff members--whom he has described as strongly anti-CIA--may feel free
to give their own version of things. This of course remains for the
future. ;

 
74-0000

or suggestions 8 =
se the wor.

Jat
omewhat
ana for
g af it were *°
ermal stacy

pecoms

g refers

ut

+ to P

ge mattersy

ent in pe
ovide ie

ap CLITA,

 

-~ senpeidors ON 6G

Aug esr punciByog

/

vA

A
AC VRS OA ARIZ
