410008 gy

 

 

 

hearings on King and 20 days on Kennedy.

(2) (S) Issues:
(a) The Agency did not provide any of the previous
investigations (Warren-Church) the depth of access to its files
aS we now are to the HSCA. Nor do we provide the same degree of.
access. to either the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence or
the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (i.e. DDO
201 files and other sources and methods material). We must be
prepared to comment upon our relationship with this Committee.

Commission Report a cropped version of the Mexico City ;
“unidentified man" photograph. As this photograph was from
a photographic surveillance operation and as several other
photographs from the same operation have been cropped and ;
supplied to the Committee, are we prepared to release all

of these other photographs to the public if requested ?

(b) The Agency released to the public through the Warren ©

5. (S) The immediate future of the Committee as it involves the
Agency is: . . - . 7 eo Se ; .

Deryabin interview = 27 April .

af

_ Golitsyn interview - ~ 4 May Deposition ~ 19 May
Nosenko interview . . - ll May _ Executive Session Hearing - 31 May
- , _ = 25; 26 May a
; * ~ 30 May : : .
Bruce Solie interview - 9 ‘May... Deposition - 22 May

June and July will see a flourish of executive session hearings in preparation : wo
for August recess. September will see approximately 20 days of public . :

. 6. (S) Although the King Subcommittee has not been active with our
files, one memorandum of conversation with Office of Security, May 1965, —
indicated "King might possibly be assassinated", and Security presumes that:
this information was passed to FB] through normal liaison channels. HSCA
has not yet reviewed this file although it is available to them. There

do not ‘appear to be any other preassassination items in the King file.

 

 

7. (S) At the conclusion of the HSCA's investigation, we may be left

with material gathered in response to HSCA requests which has not been

completely reviewed by HSCA staff investigators. - They are far behind at the ee
moment. The Commiitee has requested access to files on over 368 individuals. .
DDO has 245 files ready for review of which 105 have been reviewed. Security ¢--.
has 146 files and two polygraphs ready for review of which 50 files have been | ..

 
T0000 # -_ ‘es a
oT AF LWIE he 8 2 *  @ 4
. 7 . . ° _&
rr er ee : . : : Se ew
ao oe, : . . a

” yeviewed. Their options may be: to rapidly scan all remaining material .. - i
so they can reflect in their final report that they had seen-it all; to.not finish %
their review and remand the material to 30 years storage under our Memorandum

_of Understanding; to pass the material to the custody of the House Permanent E
Select Committee on Intelligence for use in developing any needed future :
legislation, i-e- an intelligence charter. Regardless, I believe we must

_ prepare all materials for 30 years retention and should be prepared to see
the material remanded to a safe storage out of our custody. If the material

remains. unreviewed by HSCA staff at the conclusion of their investigation, -

. then the future skeptics may still have a cause celebre. In the finalanalysis,

. it works to both the CIA nad HSCA image to complete the job-and I have attempte

* on repeated occasions to call this to G--Robert Blakey's: attention. 2. ee

    
   
   
      
   
      
    

     

Ro ger S ‘Gabrielson -
- ” Distribution: BOE

.1- OLC Subject
. . 1~ OLC Chron a rs
“) OLCRSG:jms (26 Apr 78) ey
ee mw ees 2 eS s
. . any 4
° : . . clo é
4. . ‘ - Ss -
“at . : . Com . . ¥
. . . pee te . . :

4. (S) Following are what now app, sip p pies PuicrenNAe to for
public hearings which involve the sear :

Be
with HSCA. ——_ SRT ‘

. CUBAN CONNECTION TASK FORCE

This grouphas reviewed post Bay of Pigs material including the .
_ Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook, 1964, which details personalities
' and operations of Miami-based groups. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel A
’ and Staff Director, has been to Havana. ot 2:

: a (s) Possible Topics for Public Heariny Ss .

 

 

(a) Results of the Havana visit which may include a Castro
sponsored interview with AM/LASH. This may require a Cla
spokesman to define the CIA ~ -AM/ LASH connection. ;

(b) ‘Operations of anti-Castro Cubans, Miami-based, for
which CIA documents (Cuban Counterrevolutionary Handbook - =
= 1984) may be necessary i aa

oo, (e): Former DCI ‘Colby discussions. yith Claire Booth Luce
regarding the Bayo-Pawley: affair. Je .

: (@ - The scope and nature of CIA files regarding N Marita Lorenz!
Castro-Sturgis- This may require CIA spokesman- a

(2)- s) Issues: .
. No major issues at tie*moment. .

OSWALD TASK FORCE

 

 

This group has reviewed most of the Oswald file : as.well as : many other "2018'
referenced therein. Though the Epstein book may drive the majority of the publi
hearings toward the Nosenko isgue, the group is exploring other-issues. which
be aired. : ae ; :

/ 4
i
nig

  
  
    
    

- ay 8) Possible Topies for Public Hearings:

. (a) Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald and his own credibility.
Nosenko can be expected to be called, possibly Golitsyn, ‘tao. .

-« Deryabin(too dated). This may require a.CIA spokesman to .
. attest to the present CIA position on credibility. Others may be
- ealled: Helms, Colby, Angleton, Bagley, Miler, Hart, + Epstein,
, and Possibly ‘Len MeCoy: and Bruce Solie. :
 

flostuageOt4l] a LP i
te. fla, . _t . . . ;

OLC 78-1544.
26 April 1978 -

  

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations ~ A Projection a

. a (Ss) “With less than eight months remaining until its final report to
Congress is due, the HSCA investigations have narrowed to a few key areas |
which involve the Agency. Though the Committee mandate covers both
the King and Kennedy Assassinations, the majority of our contact has been
with the Kennedy investigators. ' o . . Ole

2. (S) The Kennedy Subcommittee is addressing four questions:

» be Who shot the’ ‘President ?

 

B. Was ita lone assessin ora conspiracy? :

C. How did the agencies perform: : “oo

Q) prior to. the assassination;
- (2) sprotecting the President; .
(3) - during the subsequent investigations?

D. Is any new legislation necessary? -

 

3. (S) Initially, the > Kennedy Subcommittee had orgenized into four: :
functional groups: . . Sa eh

  
  

A. Cuban-Connection Task Force led sy Bil Triplett
; B.. Oswald Task Force led by Ken Klein
Cc. Organized C Crime Task Force led by John Hornbeck”

D. CIA Involvement in the ‘Assassination and Performance Dacing |
Subsequent Inquiries Task Force led by Mickey Goldsmith. po .

Most recent contact between OLC and HSCA staff has involved the Oswald and.
CIA Involvement-Performance Task Forces. All groups have had access to ae
CIA files, principally from Personnel, Security and DDO. - :

 
giuricl

. (b) Rameriz Ortiz's knowledge of Oswald's file in Cuban :
DGI. Rameriz Ortiz, presently in Leavenworth Prison, wrote
of a file on Oswald in Cuba. LA Division has reviewed the
Rameriz Ortiz book and provided follow-up items to the Committee. ~
As this is new material, it is likely to be aired and may require :
a CiIA spokesman. Rameriz Ortiz has given executive session

; testimony already.

(ec) Priscilla Johnson McMillan may be called to discuss .
‘her contacts with Oswald in Moscow at which time her CIA' ‘witting
source" affiliation may be exposed. She gave executive session
testimony last week, and staff indicated that they had follow-up
issues as a result but would not share their issues. If the CIA
relationship is presented, Gary Coit (retired, per) may be
subpoenaed. | a.

 

) James Wileott, former CIA finance officer in

testified in executive session that Oswald had a
relationship with the CLA, The press picked it up, and the HSCA
has been forced to pursue the issue- HSCA staff have interviewed
formen nyeer ea and are about to iriterview former
Agency ioned at the Atsugi Uz72 bases Oswald
served at Atsugi in 1958, although at an entirely separate
location from our activity: Though Wilcott may be recalled for |
public hearings, the course of the staff interest is not firm
enough to predict. At the maximum we may be called to define
our, activities at Atsugi, 1957-60. ACIA spokesman may be.
required. © . ;

 

 

 

 

{e) Serendipity 1 may get Garbier/ Kovich before the Committee. : :
Garbler/Kovich may be called to exemplify the fallout from i
the Nosenko/ Golitsyn issue. The most recent tip-off of this
possibility is that the Committee has asked to interview former 2
COS and DCOS of Moscow during the Garbler era. The Committee © ~
may provide the forum that both may revel in and, since the HSCA _

is chartered to recommend legislation as a result of its efforts,

it may be a possible source of private-bills for them. Messrs- .
Colby and Bush may also be called.. .

(2) ‘s) issues:
(a) HSCA has | requested Nosenko's 1964, 1987 polygraph

charts. After reviewing these, they may/may not request to polygraph
Nosenko himself. ‘What is our position? ; ;

‘(b) If documentary material is requested for Nosenko
hearings, should it be provided? (Transcripts of OS interviews, ete.)

 
T490000.g

, ‘ (c) Should Nosenko's executive session hearing, scheduled
for 31 May, be video taped such that the tape could become the
basis for any future public hearing?

(d) If Nosenko requests counsel, who provides/pays?

(e) Should the Hart report be made available, as it appears
the HSCA is backing into its substance anyway? :

ORGANIZED CRIME. TASK FORCE

  
   

After an initial surge of interest by the HSCA staff in CIA files last: year
‘of Johnny Rosselli, William Mahen, et;al, no investigators have’ followed-up.
The scope and nature of any future hearings are difficult to predict. ‘Noi issues}

_ are Pending -

 

   

7 cla INVOLVEMENT/ PERFORMAN CE TASK FORCE

 

Officially, this group is an adjunct service element to the other groups.
:- Its activities hop from issue. to isspe,but some areas appear of specific ae
; interest. to them. ; ; .

- ay és) Possible ‘Topics: for Public Hearings |

(a) Performance of Mexico City Station in reporting o on .

_ Oswald. Anne Goodparture's testimony in executive session-‘may .

- be reviewed in public session. She may: be called to comment .

~ Upon the Personalities of Win Scott and Station personnel. David.

a ppeared in executive session, too.

4 fran. be deposed in Jieu of a hearing. Any public hearing:

on Mexico City will ultimately hit upon sources and methods (Soviet/

. Cuban Embassy tele~taps and photographic surveillance). One of the
issues being investigated is the Agency's management of those . .

operations. A CIA senior spokesman. may be needed to testify, to.

protect sources and methods - .

 

 

 

 

 

 

- . * (b) David Christ. was: questioned about his activities on L
22 November 1963. He resembled the "unidentified man" of Dalla: ‘
Our records on his exact activities are vague. As this is a "flashy
‘issue, the Committee may press for a public hearing. This would :
jeopardize Christ and the others and would be tantamount to -

‘having the U.S. Government admit publicly to an old CIA operation ¢
Cuban soil at a time when the Administration may be courting Cuba «.

 
  
 
  
  

 

 

(c) E. Howard Hunt. may be called to discuss a report of the.

assassination which he purportedly wrote while at the Plumbers Unit

.. HSCA has requested access to our files on Hant/ Watergate - Wehav
no known records of any such report. ; :

   
