74-0000

 

Security has not been received. Office of Security files have
been searched and pertinent information reviewed. Pending a
decision as to what form the response, if any, will take, it
is recommended that the Office of Security files containing
information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily
available status and no further action be taken at this time.

ae A

Curtis R. Rivers _

 

_ - 6

> SECRET

 
74-0000

 

Cubela should be deferred to the Latin America
Division of the DDO. It should be. noted that
during their investigation, Senate Select ~
Committee staffers reviewed Cubela's raw files
from both the DDO and the Office of Security.

i. Dade County Sheriff's Office repre-
sentatives requested the "names of the three
Cubans mentioned in the Roselli testimony."

It is believed that the response to this ques-
“tion should be deferred to the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence since the Office of
Security does not have access to the Roselli.”

testimony... - ; -

3. Additionally, the. Dade County. Sheriff's Office repre-
sentatives ask for all Agency information pertaining to several
individuals of unknown citizenships, but believed to be U. S. ~ .
citizens. A review of the Office of Security indices in this

regard disclosed the following:

; a. Fred Black--Office of. Security records
revealed. only newspaper clippings contained in
the Robert G. Baker subject file (260 273)
showing that Fred B. Black, Jr., a consultant
with North:American Aviation, was a close
friend and business associate of "Bobby" G.
Baker. Black was.mentioned repeatedly in the -
news media coverage of Senate investigations
of Baker in the early 1960's. While Black's

. citizenship is undetermined, it is probable.
“that he is a U. S. citizen.— .

b. Edward -Morgan=-A covert. security file

.- (46:,394) waslocated" regarding Edward Pierpont
Morgan, date and place of birth 28 May 1913,

_ $t. Louis, Missouri. Morgan, a U. S. citizen
-and former FBI agent from 1941-1945, was
granted a Covert Security Clearance on 2 Feb-:
ruary 1951 for use as a "cut out’ in connection
with negotiations for the School of Advanced,
International Studies and John Hopkins University.

 
 

Senge

tae J adn
74-0000

on
f

 

The Covert Security Clearance was amended and
approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use

‘in’ providing covert legal support for opera-

tions in the form of a "cut out", legal advice,
transmission of funds, and other assistance of _
a legal nature in connection with DDO projects... _
Since Subject may have. been utilized by the DDO,

it is felt that any decision to release infor-
mation regarding Morgan should be deferred to

the DDO. .

It is noted that while only the afore-
mentioned subject file exists regarding Morgan,
in his capacity.as Robert A..Maheu's personal
attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in
the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files. In 1967
Maheu was interviewed and advised that he had
briefed Morgan regarding the details of his ; ~ .
involvement in the Agency-sponsored Castro ©
assassination plots. Morgan's current asso-
ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,
is unknown. Morgan is currently practicing law
in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch
and Morgan.

c. Joseph Shimon--No Office of Security
subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,
aka: Joseph Shiman. However, he is mentioned —

- in the Johnny Roselli file as a personal friend
. of Roselli. It is further noted in the Roselli
file that. Shimon knew Maheu, but the nature and
extent of their official/social relationship is
‘unknown, Shimon is described as a former
District of Columbia. Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the
. MPD as a result of a conviction involving
; vinetapeiag activities.

4. To date, no decision has been made as to the type and
form of response to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office -
request. Additionally, a formal _Tequest to the Office of ,

  

S.

~ SERRE
74-0000

 

8 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

FROM Curtis R. Rivers

ae

SUBJECT — : Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
: . Regarding the Death of Johnny Roselli -

1. The following is provided for your information and
pertains to an assessment of the information contained in
Office of Security files relevant to the request from the
Dade County Sheriff's Office pursuant to their investigation
of the death of Johnny Roselli. - : 7

2. The Dade County Sheriff's representatives requested.
all Agency information pertaining to several Cuban nationals.
A review of Office of Security indices in this regard dis-
closed the following: : o

‘a. Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez--Office. of
Security records were negative. oe

b. Rolando Masferrer Rojas--Covert..(36:859)}_. .
and overt (352 772) security files were located —
regarding Rolando Arcadio Masferrer. (Rojas), aka:
Roland Rojas Masferrer, a Cuban citizen born

’ 12 January 1918 in Holguin, Cuba. Although .

limited national agency checks were conducted. on

Subject in January 1950, there is no indication

that Masferrer was ever utilized by the Agency. .

He is a former Cuban senator and Cuban Communist
° - Party member. (expelled “in 1945), a former com-
mander for Batista's private army, and firmly
anti-Castro. The two files contain numerous FBI
reports regarding his activities in connection
with an attempt to invade Cuba in 1960 and a
subsequent effort to invade Haiti in 1967.
Masferrer and 75 of his followers were arrested
i in January 1967 in Marathon, Florida, while ..
“'<* - preparing for the invasion of Haiti. .

~ re . - B2 IMPDET
“pore
SEGRET. GL BY 007472
ou . AUTING AN RD SH

r Dp RECO EET.

 

SUBJECT: (Optional) Dade County Request for Agency Assistance
Regarding the Dedth of Johnny Roselli -

Ce. Me - OATE :
. Curtis R. Rivers 8 October 1976 .
ae Getignation, oom umber, and | we COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
| receveo | ronwanoen | fo whem, Draw @ fine across column oles euch comment.}
1 .
c/sAG

CSJo PSPS

. Sf ot

FROM:

 

 

vp

° | eff

ae lO “ianere® C] secrer (] conripentiaL ] EMAL unciassiriep

 
74-0000

 

eos . -

Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion
plot was approved by the U. S. Government (varying
“between the CIA and the FBI as the approving .
agency). While the CIA approval claim was untrue, :
Agency concern, at the time, centered around the .
possibility of unfavorable publicity and the :
compromise of sources and methods if the Agency
was forced to disprove Masferrer's charges in
“court. <A handwritten note in Masferrer's ‘file
revealed that he died in 1975 when his car was
‘-blown apart by a bomb in Florida. No further .
details regarding his death were contained in
his subject files. Since Masferrer. has never .
been ‘affiliated with the Agency, despite his
Claims, it is believed that Dade County officials
. Should be referred to the FBI for information
regarding Masferrer, _ oF .

c. duciano Nieves--Office of Security files
contain oo . information
vegarding Luciano Nieves Mestre, date and place
of birth 6 October 1933, Santa Clara, Cuba.
Nieves was -on 4 February 1966 in
Plorida. It was developed that he was a Cuban:
national who had been arrested, tried, and
sentenced to 20 years in Cuba for allegedly
being involved in an anti-Castro plot. He was
released in March 1965 after serving approxi-
mately. 16 months. of his sentence and went to

Spain briefly where he was of intérest to the - .
. .In August 1965 he entered the . os
. United States and in November 1965 was contacted .

by Directorate of Operations (DDO) representatives,
From November 1965 until approximately January
1966 he was’ of operational interest -to the DDO,

 

'. Ft is noted that the DDO maintains a
201 file (201-788521) regarding Subject and it
is believed that the Office of Security would
have to defer any decision regarding the release
of information concerning Nieves to the DDO,

   
74-0000

 

d. Jose de La Torriente--Security records
contain only sparse information provided by the
Domestic Contact. Service in 1970 showing that
one Jose de La Torriente, not further identified,
claimed to have worked for the CIA for many a

. years. An attachment to a 1970 Domestic Contact :
Service memorandum containing details of Torriente's
Claimed association with the Agency was not con-
tained in Office of Security files, It is
believed that a decision to release information
“regarding Torriente would have to be deferred to
the DDO. . ; : . .

e. Jose Quintana--Office of Security records
contain no information identifiable with Jose
Quintana. ;

£. Jaoquin Antonio Cortizo--Office of
Security records.are negative,

‘ge _Manola Artimes--Security records contain
overt (611 523). and covert .(210 838), files
regarding Manuel Francisco Artime-Buesa. Artime-
Buesa is a former Agency operational asset
utilized by the DDO during the approximate
period 1959-1963. .Any decision regarding the
release of information regarding Artime-Buesa or
his present whereabouts should be deferred to the
DDO. , : : :

-h. - AMLASH--Rolando Cubela (Secades), Agency

cryptonym-+AMLASH, is the subject of the Office
‘of Security covert ‘file 101 080.: Cubela is a
rather celebrated Cuban national and operational
contact of the DDO mentioned throughout both of -
the Senate Select Committee assassination reports.
Although Cubela is identified in the assassina~'.
tion reports as AMLASH and his identity has never
been revealed by the Agency, his true identity .
has been surfaced in several recent news articles.
All information on Cubela in the possession of
the Office of Security would fall within the

_: «.".- purview of the DDO, and it is believed -that any.

u<"""" ‘decision to release information pertaining to

3
‘SEGHET
