13-00000 : a Lee : Fst ae
. 1. JAN 27 797 1021AM USGOVERNMENT P.1/8

«? SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency
Office of General Counsel
Washington, D.C. 20505

Date: 01/24/97

To: Barry Harrelson = - | ran
Organization: HRG a
Phone: 31825
Fax: 703-613-3060

 

 

From: |
Organization: OGC
Phone: 76124
Fax: 703-874-4346

 

Number of Pages (Including Cover) 8

Comments: These are the notes that Jeremy wrote up. I
will have CIC and Fred Wickham do the classification:
reviews. You will note that in all three, he finds some
assassination records. Lets discuss this next week.

rere “Seert” unki Qe ae
Ps. T chum SECRET leon cl ee
wy Ye yo

 
13-00000

. SECRET

DRAFT NOTES BY TIG FOR ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD
JANUARY 13, 1997

On January 13, 1997, Michelle Cab and Jeremy Gunn from the ARRE Stat reviewed the fea
of Winston McKinley Scott at CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, The General Counsel's office
stated that that the files presented for cur examination are the “complete” files known to the CLA on Scott.

The documents total approximately 6 inches, and include:

(1) A manuseript entitled “It Came to Little,” by Ten Mancwell (pscud.), which contains 221
enumerated pages. The foreword to the manuscript states that the events recounted therein contain “no
exaggerations and no deviations from basic truth" (unpaginated forward). It reveals that some true,

; naines have been used, and that thia has been dons without the consent af the persons named. The author
expresses his “most ainceré admiration and utmost respect for: Mr. John Edgar Hoover, Director, Federal
Bureau of Investegation [sic]; Mr, James R. Murphy, wartime director of OSS/X-2; and » the
late Allen Welsh Dulles, OSS Chief in Switzerland during World War Il, a principal archi inthe
Gréation of CLA for President Harry Truman anid the Greatest Director CLA hai‘had.” The author
the blight of communiam, and the courageous people who have worked to fight it, but nevertheless
concludes that “all the éffoit [to thwart Communism] has come to litde,” (anpaginated forward)

There ig only one chapter that makes any identifiable reference to the assassination of President
Kennedy and to the eventa related to Mexico City at the time Lee Harvey Oswald was alleged.to have
visited. That chapter has been réleased in full to the public. .

(2) ) A Supplemental Declaration of 5. Barry Harrelon from the cage Michael Scott v, CLA, CA
Na, soseevoocae wih efached docenesss. The attached documents contain documents released in full
and some that are redacted.. According to CLA, all redacted documents are e part of the IFK collection,
This should be confirmed, If they are part of the collection, no further steps need be taken, ‘Tfnot, they
must be fully reviewed to determine whether they are assassination records,

(3) Documents that appear to be copies of the personnel file of Win Scott. All of the documents
in this file were reviewéd to determine whether atiy assassination records are included. Our review
disclosed no “azsasaination records.” Although not assassination records, the following information was
located in the peraonnel Ale:

-» The récords disclose that during World War I, while in the employ of the FBI, Scott worked in
“connection with espionage and subversive activities” and in “counteresplonage” while based.in Havana.

~ Document, dated 7/23/69, refers to the possibility that CLA might attempt to recruit Scott for
the “Civillan Reserve Program (HR 20-15) following his retirement from the agency.

~ On May 6, 1969, Scott was recommended for a Distinguished Intelligence Medal by William
V. Broe, who was then Chief of WH. The recommendation includes the following statement:

“Mr. Scott built a large and highly effective organization targeted against highest priority
national security targets; namely, the Soviet bloc presence sauth of the border. Given the nature
of the target, Mr. Scott molded his station with a predominantly CT orientation until it has
become a highly éffective counterintelligence mechanism capable of covering Soviet Bloc and
Cuban factivities).”

His Citation for the Distinguished Intelligence Medal includes the following statement:

es

+; JAN 27 ’97 18:21AM USGOVERNMENT P.2/8
13-00000

 
  
 
   

RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

 

, RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

oc FOR THE |
DIRECTORIATE OF OPERATIONS:

Oo aaa ome 2 60
13-00000 ;
TAN #497 @3:2PM USGOVERNMENT P.174

<3 , SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency
Office of General Counsel |
Washington, D.C. 20505

 
  

mae

_ .
Date: 01/24/97 Geol be Do Wage TV

To: Barry Harrelson -. oe,
Organization: HRG a
Phone: 31825
Fax: 703-613-3060

_ From:( :
Organization: OGC ~ -
Phone: 76124

Fax: 703-874-4346

 

 

Number of Pages (Including Cover) @ 4

Comments: This is the document Jeremy thinks is an
assassination record, Although the last page is not marked
classified, I think it got cut off when it was faxed tome. My

 
. “os ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

ae
: 24 June 1996
MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham Loy
FROM: . Barry Harrelson _
SUBJECT: ARRB Request re Angelton and Scott |

L. Jeremy. Gunn, ARRB staff, has requested (via
telephone) access to the following files/documents: ,

a. Winston Scott documents, including the entire
manuscript_It Came to Little, and personal effects _ Beazed on

Winston Scott's death; z 3

-b. files of James Angelton housed in the CI

vault. -
2. as handled the recent FOIA.

litigation browg! i¢chael Scott (Win's son) for all

documents on his. father, has copies of documents

responsive 's fir est: in her office. I have
.spoken with and we agree that, with your concurrence,

the best couvs#é of action would be to have Gunn view the
Scott. documents and manuscript at OGC. You should be aware
that during the course of that litigation, searches were
conducted to locate personal effects seized by CIA upon
Scott's death: Those effects were never located, but a
destruction record that seems to refer to these’ personal
effects was located and provided to OGC. Gunn would need —
access, to that, destruction record as well... 0 ow... w..

3. The second request of Gunn also was an issue in
the Scott FOIA litigation. At that time the DO told IP&CRD
that all Angelton documents were sorted through in the 1970s
and that a separate CI Angelton holding no longer exist.
Official files were incorporated into DO record system and
material not deemed to be official records were destroyed.
To the extent that any destruction records exist on

and I suggest that the DO search for any such”
estruction records and forward them to OGC. In this way,
Jeremy can view them at the same time he views the Scott
documents.

pagel ond records, Jeremy would like to see these as well.

4. Jeremy has agreed that if CIA allows him to view
the above records "informally" and he finds nothing that.
relates to the assassination, then he will not make an
“official request" for these records. Of course, any
records he believes to be relevant, he will have to make an
official request and they will then become part of the JFK
Collection.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
re ' ’ ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

w

5. Please let me know if you have any problems_wi
the above proposal. Feel free to phone me (30292) or
(76124) if you have any questions or concerns.

 

 

 

Barry Harrelson *

 

cc: _C/HRG

 

 

EIT Neiwan pers

-2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
-To:. C/HRG Scott

Subject: Request from Scott's son

The HSCA-orginated material in the CIA JFK Collection
and HSCA documents. referred to the CIA by NARA are scheduled
for review later this year. I expect copies of the two
documents mentioned in Mark Zaid's letter to be within this

-material. However, there is no inventory of this materials

and a search could be very time consuming.

HSCA documents referred to the CIA by NARA are usually
held at NARA for review by an HRG reviewer (John C). NARA
has sent some documents (mainly testimonies) directly to HRG
but two documents are not among them.

The HSCA report on Oswald in Mexico city was released
in August 1993. The pages attached to Zaid's letter are
from that report.

We could ask NARA to pull the two documents and send
them over for review. Otherwise, they will be released
later this year.
 

104-10332-10015

   

wot

12 January 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/IP & CRD

PROM: (Kathy Kelly ~ .
oGc/iD

SUBJECT: Michae) Scott FOTA Request ,

1. Ags you may be aware, the DCI has received “me.
correspondence from an attorney for Michael Scott (*Sc6tc*),
gon of the former COS/Mexico City, regarding Scett's FOIA :
requests for information concerning hig father, Winston
McKinley Scott ("Winston Scott"). I understand that &cott
has two FOIA requests outstanding currently, numbers 91-1231
(requesting all information on Winston Scott) and $3-10406
(requesting re-review of Winston Scott's unpublished
manuscript).

2. Our records indicate that CIA processing of FOIA
request number 91-1231 is completed, pending referral of two 49
documents for coordination to the FBI and the Department of Nv)
the Navy. During the processing of FOIA request 91-1231, |
Winston Scott's affiliation with the CIA became publicly
acknowledged pursuant to information releases processed by
the Historical Review Group under the Assassination Records
Collection Act ("ARCA"). Pursuant to ARCA, certain chapters
of Winston Scott's manuscript also were released in full. ,

3. The CIA's response to Scott's outstanding FOIA
requests should take into consideration the ARCA
disclosures. ‘

4. Please inform me of the current anticipated
completion date of the pxocessing of Scott's FOIA requests.
Specifically, would it be possible to release the documents
for which the CIA has completed processing (request number
91-1231) and to request that the other two raeferrant
agencies (FBI and Navy) respond directly to Scott, in view
of the unusual equities in this case? As always, your
assistnce in this matter is appreciated greatly. Please
contact me with any questions you may have. A copy of
certain of the relevant correspondence is enclosed for your
convenience. ny a

¢ sy

é a

« Kathleen Kelly ?
Bnel. Nn ~~
13-00000

   

“PRIORITY HANDLING FOIA REQUEST —

SUBJECT: (Optional) RE: WINSTON MACKINLEY Soor REQUEST NUMBER

      

  
    

  

SULLIVAN, SHERRY F91-1231

DATE SENT :
14 January 1994

SUSPENSE DATE :

    
     
      
     
   
   
   
   
     
  
  

TO: (Officer, designation, room number, and
building)

  
    
 

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from
whom to whom, Draw a fine across column after
each comment.)

 

 
 

2
a
«8
-
ry
wn
find
Cot
rs)
fo)

    
  

Kz a,
rs FIO/HRG
PRE me

 

   

   
 

1-10-45

     
    

 

 

 

 

 
  

Based upon the additional infor
provided in paragraph’2 of OGC's
12 Jan 94 memo and additional -
info provided by Mr. Zaid, .it |

is requested that ‘the DCI task
HRG to search records regarding
this case: “It is ‘also ‘requested
that the request be placed in the.
queue as though you had rec'd

it back in 1991. ;

 

 
 
 
 
     
 
      

 

 

1 to 3: Please note abdéve
and provide your response
as soon as possible. .

 

 

 

 

ACTION: DCI

 

  

 PRI@RITY H

FORM 3749

ANDLING F@IA REQUEST
13-00000

17 February 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: Information Review Officer/DCI
VIA: CSI/FOIA Referent

FROM: John F.Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

. SUBJECT: FOIA Request F91-1231

The two documents requested are items that were
originated by the House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA). There are entries to this effect ("Agency: . HSCA")
in the two identification forms submitted by the requestor.
Under the JFK Records Assassination Law, CIA does not have
authority to release Congressionally-originated materials.
Our role is to coordinate such materials upon request. The
National Archives has been delegated authority by the

Congress to process HSCA-originated records.

&

 

 

 

John F. Pereira
