104-10054-10034

 

ca ; Coe SECREI ( § January 196
\ oe vd .
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Lawrence F. Barker

  

SUBJECT ; Meeting with io, 27 Decesber 1963

. le A meeting with|gey rs held in Bts car from 2000 witil 21h0 hours.
20 Deceaber. ;

 
     
 
 
 

Eee Reported on the recent firing of nevesstPRoRiZn Proenza 7364 a
and this"was as the subject of two cables. to Headquarters in view of her :
See MEXI 7613 and

garding i% of Lee Harvey Oswald to the Cuban Ceasulate in Septenber,
He had no further information to offer about this buf reported-that Silvia
had not returned to work at the Consulste since her release fres arrest the |
‘second time, ‘hig was reported to HQS. (See MEXI 7615) ee
ON eee 7

B apologized for Hot haviay been able 4 ra

{ las asked for further detail on Silvia Duran's statements re-
i

 

    
  

 

 

 

   

 

ice? ascribes this to the resentment caused among

z strong note received from Raul ROA, Cuban FOMIN, in regard

to the dotention of Silvia Duran, Apparently word had been passed to Mexican
officials that they were to give the Cubans the cold shoulder, —

/
be Roldelfo REYES, a Mexican citizen who works in Cuba for the Cuban.
i) Teatro Folklorico, was recently in tow. He said that Fidel CASTRO had recently
remarked. that Cuba should use its theatrical group to earn dollars abroad, REYES
said that a M, PLANCHON and six other Parisian empresarios connected with the
‘Teatro de las Naciones in Paris would be travelling to Cuba in the near future  ;
to see what could be done about putting the Cuban show on the road. y

6 6. The well-known Mexican cartoonist RIUS (true name Eduardo DEL RIO)
af who was scheduled to be a guest of the Cuban government at the e Anniversary
: celebration a Jan in Havana, did not get a Cuban visa.
_ RIUS would be notified directly by

sepa: - " tais refusal, Since RIUS is an ‘outstanding *
propegandiat { for the Communist cause,iacould only conjecture that this '
development was related to the ROA note flap and the Cuban Government's desire
to avoid antazonizing the Mexican goverment further, Another cartoonist, who
uses a names something Like RAM (?) also got the same treatment,

 

 
   
 
   

 

 
 
  

she) d, Rogelio RODRIGUEZ of the Embassy received sane gifts fros soneone | CE,

\ inside the Czech Enbassy at Christmastime, a

: _ woman Xo SG
e. An Australian newspuperfort naned Julian or Jullian/ ROBERTSON was

in tom on 23 Decenber, staying at Room Oh of the Gran n Hotel Isabel, Isabel La
Gatolica # 63. She was trying to get a visa to visit Cuba but was, unsuccessful

   
 

SECRET . | ISLS. _, Pebots -

Arvin!

 

OBsts
