104-10181-10236

Seee tHe75 {-

 

 

Ure. SLODSDA oaid that sho “‘travalled from Uoacow to London
citizen but sho claimed to be unabdle

with tho wito oF un an
to mcal2 the nane of sen, oven thouga at the time che
concerned and toox cotails of

cid asreo to «rite to the w .
her addreos in Ancrica. This woran also crso fren Lvov. |

She hac to wait seven xenths Zoran exit visa and did not propose
to return to the U.S.S.R. Hor husband wus an electrical .
engineer and-possibly ef exigre stock. Ura. SLOSGDA said she
understood ho was a U.S. citison in much tho sare doat vas hor*

husband,

     
      

 

 

 

L. How wis corsunication established vith hor has skone before
she went to U.S.S.R. and nexsons in Risland whilo she was
in U.S.S.2.?" Did sho notico ary tyre of censorsiiv ?
— OOO ———————— —— — eee

     

 

In the first place hér husband wrote to hor fron : the U.S.S.Re
ana she had experienced no difficulty in sending letters from
Lvov to her fanily in the U.X. or in “teed aubsoctent tly receiving
letters from her busbandé, ovon tzough +50 mail vas sonetines
subject to dolays which might imply that eanatanetD was taking

 
 

place.
Ke Has sh @ contacted any U.S. mi
tho U. Ho? Reqriest full details of. az

 

Sho has mado no contact we sh eny U.S. military personnel
since leaving the U.S.3.R.-. Her last contact with tho
. American Military was in Ger any in 1960 and she recalled in
particular the many kindnessés she then recoived at tXo hands
of the U.S. 2cé Cress who were of groat assistance to her in
her hour of nocd, and who in particular raised sufficient funds
to clear all cutstanding SLOBODA Yanily liabilitics in Germany.

 

 

 

 

4. CC:

  

 
 
   
   

On the basis of ry i ‘ ich lasted
upwards of tio ho T Fou ae inposs: be +0 make up ny mind about
Kro. SLOZODA. tions under
which: we met in Halifax ice 3: a were by no means ideal. ‘Thilst
it is possible + that she wi indosmasé St incriminate
hor as an ascossory before the fact of her ky esti on . cano
across nothing: in ry intorview with ker to sugzoss thot | she haa been
recruited by tho R.I.S. or that her hustand was at all forthcouing with
her when they were reunited in the Soviet Union as to tke roasona
and the rethod of defection.

Ours,

  

     
       
     
 
 
 

    

Shen it was cugseated to her that it micht be Found ‘eesivable
to see her again, and that it right be more conve: such en
interview to be conducted in Lendon, ber reaction w eccualy
sharp and adverse. tha th Tace, she said thas
why, ane indicated her reluctance to take part i
exercice without, however, tes adle to adduco any

2g0n for deing so reluctant. © Ske also seereé to So
sho was asked what sho would bo saying to the Russiens should
euestion her on hér return to the U.S.S.R. cbout possible asm
from U.Z. or U.S. intelligence agencies. Tho question se
her completely by surprise as though such a possibility had rot occurred
to her up to that moment. Eventually she mumbled that

 
 
  

        

     
 
  
 

 

 

 

sho éfd not

 

: know. Ske was therefore brioved to deny having hed any such contacts,

r,
ehUl

 
104-10181-10236

 
 

Baglencterrerrrrern sreeacensensenerssesoas

    

 
 
 
 
  

intorviered in the normal way >
the Press. Sno was asked to aivise us - through thi
if ehe 2id decide to procecé wit. Ce

 

ner plan to Go back to Russia, and
she reluctantly agreed to de so. Satoro sre left, I offered her
5/- to moet the taxi fare to hor bene, and this she gladly accepted.

G-

 
104-10181-10236

as

 

  

 

Coen teers

 

\ for he> Jcurney to Lvov. The

 
  
 

Sho é:2 not cention any
ts any U.S. offiatais in Mcsoow.

     
  
  

eaving Lvov she

* officer wit

he U.X. and she was ‘sdvised ¢ tke Soviet
ondon, regarding arransesonts for her return trip
the ‘conclusion of Ber holiday; her passsort was
or ninety 4 “iiss. SLODODA, when interviewed

 

 
   
 

the U.S.S.2.
taxeh sic,
her chiléren She considered it unis

      

       

the Russians

 

ly that

“Would Ye srepared to allow all three cehilcren to leave. the

U.S.S.2. and thus she felt that the enly alternative wes for

 

her to zeturn there, In this cemnaction she had recently :
received a telegrom from he>, Susvand saying that he was

   

plannix> to despatch the eléest child, David, born in the U.K.

in 1953, to" Ralifox, but she bad sent a tele-ren in reply .
telling Sez tusband to abandon this plan as she herself vroposed
*o return to Russia in the near future. xs. SLCSODA was :
questioned about her motives for Sending tais télecran, seeing
that her Lusbend appeared: to bave axdo 2 decision to return

the British. born son to this ecuntzy and bearing in mind thst
urs. SICICDA herself had inéicated he> cispleasure at the fact
that this rarticular son (ko Was at boarding school and who

now spoke fluent Russian) savo svery appearance of growing away
fron the Scomily and beconing a Young Communist. Sie averred

¥38 still very much in love with hor kusband. Ske’
Rot ‘seex to. envisage \any Gifliculty in obtaining the
assistance of the Soviet Consulate in London to. retuza to the
U.S.S.2., an@ she expects the Consulate to provide Ler with
the necessary passages wken recuested to go $0; Sho added that
she hsé peceived an assurance adeut tho availabilizy of free -
Psasases Sren ‘Anton’.

 

     

 

 

 

 

=z SLOSQSA denied that shé'was anproached br Sovies
Intelligence at any stage of hes Stay in the U.S.5.5., les
alone recmited by then. On her arrivel in th
Leningrai she was ret ty:her husband who intzedue.
R.1.S. resettierent officer referred to above.

asrenges Ter her to stay a row Gays before making

   

   
   
 
 

 
 

was Given ty iss. SLOSODA-as ‘an that ke is
detween 65 and 50 yours of azo.

arrancjerents ter ner. trip. to seningrad wore made by shi
Consulate in London whem sho had approackeé after receiv:
letter trv her doin Russia, The Soviet Censul biz
handled ber az: rtecus and 3
paid all he> expenses for the trip and in-ad
furniture. She maintained that ea arrival at Lenin.
subjected to no Security intervosetion or intezvi

by the Seviet authorities
Soviet Intelligence when sno fet curing hor stcy in the U.S.3.2.
was the Anten referred te adove. Furthercore, she maintained
that +: I.8. had attached no conéitions (involving intelligence
activities in this country) to the 6zantins of pernission to
return Lares .

 
   
 
  
   

 
 
 
 

 

 
    
 

   
 
104-10181-10236

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assas¥i
Records Collection Act of 1992 -

(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53216 6/27/17

Coes tars

. YO 73 oO t i - a pa - 5 -
ae 1 DEA~ 337g SEH ~ AP d1- DF 752-7 ©

   
  
    
     
  
 

 

NOTE FOR FILE oe
. . “Wy va

 

 
  

i " cp
Z visaced Haritax on 13th March to intervs
SLOBODA. I arrived at Police Headqu
re. SLOBODA wos eventually preduced at

    

 
  

 

  

2.  —«s-Xra. SLO30DA sivas the ‘eoression of being a rather quiet, a4
Nervoug and not’ very intelligent north country woman, ill-equipped

te grapple with tho upheaval of the past two year: At tha outset
“I'told her that I was not a police officer tus ‘ad Of the
“Office in London concerned with security cotters and in this.

r of the Var

  

Connection thére were a few questions I wishe? to ask her. However,
she was under no odligation.to enswer eny questions or indeed ‘to be
intervierod at all, but should she “egree to answer oy questions then
she should bear in mind that tze contents of our interview mist not .
be discussed sith anyone else at any time. - Sho saié that. she vas
quite prepared: to be intervieved although she did not think that she
had any information of value to us. I should mention here that at

"the beginning she was obviously very nervcus and reticent, then for

@ period she seerad mich more eoll-aseurod, end towards the end of .

the interview, when one or tro rather delicato matters were raised

she became sonexhat eistressed, flushed and uncertain of herself,

Before recording vhet she had ‘to say I fcel bound to make the

reservation that I do. not, belicve she told co the whole truth and that '
T do not consider that sho is quive 30 guileless as tke impression

" ". she gave mo at the doginning of the interviey lea me to believe. In
brief, she may not be very intelligent, tut she has lots of native

   

cunning,

3. She supplied the follox & ancwers to the questions put by me

‘on the basio of the questionnaizs voceived fron. as at 88a:- |
Ko bark

Ae Under what cfreurstane 3 she nomitted to return to
ae COTS Sp
england ? Does she plan te return to tho U.5.5.2.?

     

Her object in returnin; te this country fron the U.S.S.R. in
Merch 1962 was to take a holiday which, she said, she felt she
badly needed. It was obvious fron what Urs. SLOZODA had to
say that she had found live én Lvov. very cifficult, largely
because. of her lack: of Russ any and tho fact that hes husband's
parents wore living in the’ sere aparinent.
the nattor with her fusbend she first applied for
in August 1961 and ane adnitted iat tho Russian TI.

Officer responsible Zor h nd's zcsettle:

  

 

  
   

 

  
     
  

more than once why sho wi: +o leave her kusbaré in Russia and
return home to Enziand. resettlezent offices izplorod her

husband to bring ssure *o tear on her on the grounds that ser
husband was now iving in Russia afd that it was up to her to
“ Imuckle dow and beceze Cli:rtised" and stay by bis Bide

rather than to return to tie + _ However, in the ond hes
porsistence wor the Cay and after Gopositing her Passport
tho authorities in Lvov oi eived it back again in Maz.
with an exit visa stanped thoretn. Sha wished to tale x
‘hor scall daughter but aluo. cer secend son with ker and oz
arrival in Moscow from Lvov by Acroflot ake visited the British
Embassy to discuss the statua of tha son in question, Victcr —

   

   
 
 

  
   
 

     

Joveeee

 
104-10181-10236

Cove 80-75

 

D.

 

Urs. SLO30DA maintained that at no atage pricz to hia
dofection did her husband give her the Slightest Lint or

indicaticn of hie plans to defect. On the day in question ke vent
off to work dressed in civilian clothes in the normal way and quite
sinply, did not come back at the normal hour. Iscexshowever,

he telephoned fron East Berlin to inform hte wife that he would
not be hone that night but would see her. again soon and that in :
no circunstances was ‘she to worry. . A day or 80 prior to these
events SLOSODA had received his army pay and had handed over the
usual acount of housexeeping to his wife. A day or ao after
receiving the.tolephone call Urs. SLOBODA received a postcard
saying in effect “don't-worry, I will write again soca", and

she seered to thin: that the postcard bore a Berlin postmark,

She said his car was found abandcnod near Cologne. Mrs.
' SLOFODA said she Jmew nothing eb

out her husband having had ary
cohtact with any Russians in Germany. at any time prior.to his
defection. ‘Ske indicated that she had docn closely questioned
about this matter by the American authorities in Frankfurt

whon her husband's defection had boon reported to thax. She
said that her husband worked. ac ‘a “plain clothes" =an in the
U.S. Arzy Lilitary Intelligence group based in Fra“urt. He
never sought to discuss his work with her but be Seexed to .
enjoy it and it used to involve a cortain amount ¢D travelling.
Ere. SLOBOLA said that whilst relations between 4s> and her
husband were normal as at tho tire of bis dofecticn, there had
been a nurber of disputes over menoy. It seemed that SLOBODA,

 

contrary to ary regulations, had taken to visiting aight clubs

and. cabarets in Frankfurt and also to gacbling. 31 this had
led hin to incurring substantial debts and in this ccnnection
Urs. SLOBODA said that at the tine her husband was.in debt to
the extent of £4,000, a fact which he feared would in tino ,
reach the ears of the nilitary euthorities and Tesuit in him
being court martiallod, ltrs. SLORODA hinted that kad ‘had
more than her share of finencial worries whilst they sere living
in Gormany. Sho said that life as a soldicz's wife in the
U.S.A. had been extremely pleasant and that both her Eusband

and herself had more than once cursed the cay when they had been
posted to Geruany. lLirs, SLOBODA said that. che did
her husband decided to defect but azreed that his s
indebtednoss had been playing on his mind for sone tire.
(Incidentally Lichael SLOBODA, brother of Vladimir, stated in
October 1560 that he knew his brother to be heavily debt
due to gambling and that on one ocession Vladicir §
remarxed cryptically: "I don't want to 60, but I rus
Era. SLOBODA indicated that her husband had been out on .
Gambling excursions ror many months ‘prior to: hin actus: defection.

 

  
    

 

   

Details of her travel arranrenonts inned@istely zx:
re from Ennland foz U.S.5.a6, ane ects

. fron England to ultimate destination in U.S.S.u.
See (A) above. : :

    

       

 

 

E. Bhat Soviet -Bloc Intell

 
    

 
   

nature and extent of ¢
ang in what type of on
and what were their th

     

 
 

 

Mrs. SLOSCDA ‘said that during her tine in the U.S her

ocon : fovedes
104-10181-10236

/ to |

Sooo 10-75

7 Pe

 

& stone a heeeeecememe

   

 

fenily wore tresbtled by propaganda werkera cn one occasicn only.
A, Sovlot journ $ scugnt to interview her to Find cut how sho
Toit adeut living {mn the U.S.S.R.; in fact the reportor was .
handled by hor husband. .

 
   

 

Ge

 

irs. SLOBODA said that her husban nd. aia not discuss political

-pattors with ker but that he appoared to like his job.as a

translatoz/librarian at tho Polytechnic Institute in Lvov.
Additionally he appreciated living in clése proxizity to his om
father ond mother. The authorities kad provided a three-rooned
flat and SLOSODA's income was in excess of 300 roubles a month
which was quite good by local standards. ‘The oldest boy
attended a boarding school and he now opoke fivent Russian and
corrospondingly, lite Sle English. In shot, SLOS0DA seemed’
quite content with his’ preson’ lot but lirs. SLOSCDA s2id she

did not know what ker husband thought about the United States.
She repeatedly asserted that her husband haé only been
reticent about his plans to cofect, but refrained from discussing
any of hio edperiences in Seviat hands-prior to her arrival at
Leningrad. irs. SLOSCDA did not soem to think that such
reticence as. betwean ran and wife was at all unusual !

 

 

    

 

H. “hat is 3
activities of persons 5

 

in contact ?

See (G) above.

CP0I-A ae

=A conmected or aSsccteved 4 ss

    

vay with
s derestion

daa a of

At first Mrs. SLOSCDA denied sil ‘mowledgo of. Tadeusz LIPSST
but Jeter said she th ho must have beon the person
responsible for ens aging her husband to consider foining the
U.S. Amy vse SL03094 recalls that LIPS called on tign in
Frankturt on his arrival in Gercany. Mrs. SiC
thouckt LIPS waz s Unrainian who had been with
after the war. LIPSXT cont
tine to tig go. in. Gormany
in Berlin and not Rzt. $a not see Lt
husband's Gerectior. She is therefore unable to
not LIPS: imew anything about er husband's plans.
connection.

    

 

   

    
 
 
  
   
  
   

 

 
 
  
  

 

Pibas

 

  

J.

    

     

7 ine th ev doing siven
political i ation ?

Two of the SLOTCDA children are at presont with their father
in Lvov. ‘he eldest goes to the International boarding school.
in Lvov whilst the secend son.(torn in Accrica) attends day

 

     

  

sehool. The third child was. too young attend school in Russia and.
ie now in he Sland with her sail

 
