104-10164-10047

f

 

a a

 

* . | ammouncoment of the University Counetl,

a
: _ thoy claimed (a) tho menting waa callad far all rtudants

: [eee and Aguett.

. gchools,

‘ - atate their. otand Prey, to the Sutppgate or vlolenag; (b)

Ses
: Bagert te: PFW,
. : : ofe Gare £8 Fow 1569,

has refezes tr erorerete ta thd cata elccttons and sag
Snuceumesd thet thes ef!) hold rerapatc cle fana aa tie
LE of Novernep, tha stay TiSloeti: tot vee op OF, inke
versity Counedle Tue reser Cop tite Stend fa the oie ane
wetlun cecnant-a ny the other tes HFINH, Bere, Cloctiaug
2 tle wtive Counell stvule be by ulpect watyu of the
etudont 4 votier Gen Uy dele. ates of eact, Petar, and

A te ata ohBl story Cor all stuvents, swrleue
pectient af tha 2t, tp tha lemata: Sieuwe ta
eh, BAL be ens a trlande Lave hacen the causa of
such of tie dinsrder tat tae calated fn the Univeratty
Curing the luzt Cum monthae vu 8

 

 

   

 
   
   

 

    

The University Counall, uron recetet of the annauncerent
Of noneparticl-ation of the tiled crour, steted that eny
but the autiorized elections would be declared null eng
void, The ctatuton cottin: up Untvaretty autonacy proe
vids that elcativas of selool Coleiates ta be valid wat
be hele tn the prorence of the Professors of the tniivle
@ual schools, and that electicas for Prastdent of the

 8ehool rust be held in the presence of the Dean of that
school. :

On Lf Noverhor the thtra croup called a reneral reeting
of the student body to protest the alections., This was
& coupleto fatlure v2 th only a handful of the atudenta

turning out for it. OVARES announced the neeting cane

celed and urgod the students to another general meeting
on 23 Novembor, : .

The University Council on 23 Novenber announced that the)
eleotion rules and the olection date would not be chanced..
The general reoting of FEU was held the same day in the
Plaza dol Rector Cadonas at tho Univorsity, follow ne the

Leonel SoTo
addressed the students, pointing out that the now regue

tations, onpecially article 10, were illegal. Raudilito
CLANIJO also spoke and, Enrique
ES, sooonding the Aotion of Bonito, 3uShRi_ for action
‘vatner than words, directod the studerfts ta tako over the

This was done immediately and the. ctudents 6s
cupled eight of the schaols within o short tlmns

“Mula astion was publicly opponed by FRO DIGHIDAD bocauce

tho repronontntiven of All croupn worn not allowed to .

 

  
     
  
   
   
       
         
      
     
        
    
     
    
   
    
       
      
   
   
    
    
   
   
     
   
         
     
   
    
     
     
      
104-10164-10047

at.

=

0,

ae

we see e

 

‘*

oe
oe
eB ae
+.

    
      

 
 

my . ~ Yeo

, Recesaity Sor unnaliwous approval of of fic?

Bagost. Ge: FF Lost,
Ne Bares se LEE

Oe catsetiy of the ct cots eh est fn Lee or OF ee

te lenses Wed Glie certt eee cee le £08 toe tee
"gt 8 2 ooh tkbese cece dos cat a oe a So ae saly
SPzg COP Come, Ce cethoe of tan fe eles te wee-tytes
Uhe ecenesds war Llkersbe ot

   
 
 
  
  

Liter Ve tg jay, BF Noveztap, we Ladversity Cornet}

we BV @ b.00 s u ded Sect bie® eacoke LE.08

GuiPlare wd Ue ressbuthonasy Corp of

Papi eottlwa ts Cre nee gritos

+08 Bo: bteta the inte

St08 Che stutents

LP oe Of soupe

Cory ard Unt othee nattere auuld nat te Grd Gerod at

        

  

Aloo hoard was on interandent creup fw’ the Seco} of

Bae bid, Vie PRO LIOTIOAD, alread to BCVOl% Lhe aciee
duled elections tue tnetetad They esuld oratiaue ta work
for seniente bo the electlun pules, Anotwer aroun Sram
the Seio0k of Pdlowophy aad letters stated votore tha
Univeratty Council thet, altiouch thoy wore not entirely
An eccars with the Ful ctractors, they would dolu in ang
etrica lod by thor for the notithention of the resulationas

then ubritted in writing their demands containing
3, dirond tien tha crane tn election gy eten,

 

2ale, postpones

dant of cloctions to 10 Pecexber, and a nunser of other

Glauses that concern the operation of the University.

prevent

nla pernm ont
sion but. no date was set for the el+ctions. |

The students ore araro that the leaders of both PEE f

PLU face
ts, are
3 thet nok

those leaders;

made so lon; as the presont situation oxtata. Although
ithe revolutionaries, with ihe holpd of the communista

 

Oo pnetpone tho olectiona,

       
 
    
   
  
      
 
     
   
  
 
 

remeron Bet

 
 
   
   
    
    
   
 
 
  
104-10164-10047

 
 
  
   
     
  
      
 
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
     
   
    
    
      
   
   
    
      
   
      
     

   

 

  

EteSet .eetiarm, Se:
Bh tow €3, 3

Bubjert: & .270¢:: :
Letrersity cf
UtlPameecen & 2

Sone end University Council, 7 Uae Of Inference: gg 1942,
Piece seqnives: acama, Suse, on 5 4 . te-R2to0 1349,

 

 

 

 

    

\ Bvalection: Tors, 2-6 & 38," at Deve of Begesy;. 2S Sow 1948,
Goares: , ALBIVALESS iers,. i-
PRESS Faris Sg Bete Be
by Durtny the last fow weeks vi-: .
* the University of Uatene, “AStet cheese bag nee nned at

  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
     

etudents ave

2 5 eeprze! is 7
tires croupseeprselainaliec dee assent

eivided tats
or rovolutlunsry,

ot O© Sine, antiocosontet

  

Bo The Clrst ersur iam adoptsu | '
Orem ON iB uatn: as bes 1 han
Aime, fron whieh hea c. “at
erence to the croup, Ue: ie
has acroed to cubilt to wow meete
University Couns!l tn rola!
officers, with tha ona ey
should be amended to tnelu
rer srepseueant Executive 6

oir own candidates ry
sora Pa arttee in tho
duled for 45 Novenier 194g Ny ‘the Univerat ty,

 

   
   

      
    
      
  
 
     

 

ES sOAVIJO, pr
at ov lLedletag. s
iL under arres

goting President of the Sci
‘or Orlando BopGewho is sti
UINCHAUSTESUL, prosconaun:
of Social Sotences sub:
undor arrent; Boudilio
Prosident of the School af

   

“fies pron
seuplate accord Beth iene the

gard to the manner of vottir'y Cauneil, esreetnily in req

Also participate in the 2a'lin Nevertheless, they wil

| thetr own list of anndiaatodovember elect subnitting

The third croup, antiecoan nn § vines : tate
Gonstitutes a majority o: HESe oF Fovolutionmpies, ehtch
4FBY. counting amon them soyst of the eshosit ett of the
: Cheesi fication vt Pheaidente,

   
  

  

 

 
104-10164-10047

a

# a
4
'
+
4
’
!
'
'
ia

i
i
j
i
'

 

ree

      
    
  
  

PRORENT ENRON SONNE 4
By eupy te: “0h @ cya, - Ovelly te:
Piie l cy,

4
; Lao) >
Statcfys wryl cy, >

Ko other attributions
ri.

  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
       
    
      
   
   
      
     

1
Refvrences dincurned come of the develorments at the Univers |
etty Surtn: Septorber and Getober and reforred to the Ana: :
Bhovd rald, Te cillin: in ldeSupterher of the etucent !
BUIA and the resultant pales be the rolice on the School of )
Acronony, when aria wore confisentad and 15 PvTsons Wore Are !
rictat tho of whem wors later sentenced to short prison terms) ‘,
wre thertly follorec by the arrest of some 75 Individuals {
urter the "Roy de Ganato Lene” mnd nacused of beloncin: to
AIWGLE orgaut rations end of ®sancatertom™, Auone thore are |
Busta was * ag Tesidont of the School of Moodie x

cabana, GeO WAZ ono of ten of tha inttor !
RAM Rentonaed to one year In orlzon. Thin erneted a great {
thire or revolutionary group nontlomd i
and also led to the creation by tho proe
oma’ seound ‘group of the CakITE 30 Dis SEPTIEMERK ao a |
t of the arrest of GUSCH and te other studonta.

     
 

~ Those happenings wore in part reaponsible for tha chanjos made
the Univernfty Counell tn the eleation regulations, and

CoS Gownellia action brought about the quarrola that result od
tS GPLLGEing up the student dodye :

Tee ralda, the arrests, trials and later developments at the _
Rulversity have been partially covered by the preas but the
C)

Babaney date, has iut resorted on this situafion. It ia
Believed that Hoadquarte

   
  
       
      
  
 

    

rs should be cognizant of the inner
Workines of the various Vaiversity factions as outlined by ~~
ANSTVAERNT/

| !
|

wiersee

  

   
  
  
  

eRe

 

 

noof ae Oo 91 = 2992 94|
| Faw REGISTRY COPY he
L ne a Og : Li.

A AL nn enon! eee ome nnn

© Bets PE

  
   

<—«
104-10164-10047

|
js

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

 

Gadjece-p=U Bedly Disrurte? on Eve Report ke: THi-979,

Plece acquired: Habana, Cuba,
Svaleatia:; Be2.
Geerce:

2.

“, Whom are under urrosty cos8 Ke

- Py

    

bs ty |

of Eloctlrs peles med for
Boveaber 13400 Dete of laformatios: Oct 1949.

Date Scqaired:4ol17021 Oct 2949.

Bate of Report: 27 Oct 1949,
ALBIVALENT —

: 7 ba?

The recent arrosta of suny of its leadora has complet ly
Gomorsiized the fPuMENACIO LESTUDIAUTIL USIVEMSITARTA~ Bead) —
which has now sthedulod elections for ita Central Concittes
for Novonber 1949¢° The ant? ecommun! st group retaina cone
trol of seven of the Untveraity's thirteen schools. The
Gomeunists have adequate contro: in four or five of the

other six and claim that they controlyY all six of theme

e an : . :
LeonsiAsot0, JA S redolsuSvARA and Baubillo \casretearos,
formerly~anti. uni sts, now are considered leader:
the loft sido. PedrapiI2AZz0, Oriandg

Enriquo} OVA2i5 who appears to have lined hinself up
@efinitely with the anti-cocmunists after a long period
of indecisiony, are among the prinoipal leaders of the
anti-ormnist factions : :

There has been a2 more or less oloarly defined yveak bee
teoon these two groups as a result of the recent student |
arrests; OVARES feels that the FEU. has the moral obligae -
tion to defend MIRAZU, 3OSCH and other student leaders.
fhe Communist fection, which is in the hw py position of |
having denounced gengsterism in the FEU for some time, a
is ageinst coming to the defense. of the arrested leadera* :
od--in-a-series--of-press—releases——..
by-several FEU" leaders-on-both-eides. whioh-heve been-in—
the_news-dattys- .

Neantime, the FEU is completely disrupted on the eve of .
ite November sleations, and the FEU University Council ~

- has not been able to exercise control over the -etudent

body. Almost half of the thirteen schools. are now without —
presidents and elections will have to be held in thees

several schools before the Consejo Virectivo can be naned. ,
da Yovenbor. :

“") Giassttienstes “2°

+

 

 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
 
 
    
  
 
 
104-10164-10047

- . Report So. TFH-979.
oe 27 Oct 1949.

i & The Goreunist youth leaders have a present edvantace as i
H they cen point to thelr past attocks on canesterism in the 3 °
| : . FEU. Trey oricinally opposed thio type of activity because i
i oe it was often directed against therselves, and‘eas under :
the control of acknogledsad antiets=zinists, The death 1
of atudent leader )“LJIAS ond Qe. subsequent arrests now '
porate the Gomuntsts to pofnt’to thoir rast opposition ;
O such activitlos,bo-tielntwivatesdventeve, this cams :
simultaneously sith a coneral studont body feeling that : _ a
the FzU should mot concern itself with such problems as t : voy
. the recent boostins of bus fares, The Commniat leaders mleon
ao havo also bein .e popular -campaicn in opposition to the ' {
— proposed, loan {n ‘witch they have been Joined by a creat. :
: many non-Go:minist groups in opposition to theaiovernment. WITT
cal " fhvamfs TAWOADA, & rolatively unimportant FEU leader, is
— organizing popular manifeatationa againat the loans .
‘

 

ete ese

|

  
 
   
   
   
    
   
    
   
   
    
   
     
    
     
   
    
 
 
 

an $f. Although the Communist atrenzth in erch school 1s numorie -

: cally woak, 1t in woll organized and the anti-Gonmuniota,

f{nced with an onrly olection, fonr tliat the present dine

organization may ronult in additional control. for the Come

sunist faction. This has caunod tho anti<ommmista some -

concern, but it la too carly to tell-whnt the rosults will

.. be in November as they will depond almost ertirely upon

' who 1s elected to the presidency of the several schools

- *betweennowand-then and upon student activity during .
the next few wesks. It is during these weeks that..the.
anti sts could by hard work eliminate nearly all

' of the Gommnists from 3 Consejo Directive. If they do

.' mot wrk energetitally,. Communists may regain some of the
_ Beven schools now in the hands of anti~€ommnists.

    

A fret LeStme teow ‘tl eate Cte | oe a a ) ‘

pre oee Oye ass ave A)
104-10164-10047

toe
‘ wi

Be on : ’ 5
- . b6 Oe hee

   
    

Pree; | Eavens, Cute Keport to: IXE-957 tecal Pile se: 10-19

      

by copy te: bash | =2 Ovally ve: EDT wery

   
     
   

i
Fo other dtstrsbuts

ci See

teuree! Operational Data, aad Commenter:
SQQENTS

  

  
       
  
   

This office has not reported specifically on the FEU during the

peed several weeks because little has transpired. It is likely -
t within the next few weeks the election problem will be cleared |

up. co :

acer ove aemnenty e

  

 

   

: - OX me Oe
oe REGISTRY GBPY 520-29 72

nove ecmehinmen cree neat aeneteetptntetERR =

   
    

    

7

       

 
104-10164-10047 Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
vee page . Records Collection Act of 1992

y nee peer neon APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
j nws3295 6/15/17 GHA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM ~~

Ore

   
  
   
  
   
   
 
   

MATERIAL EEVIERED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS B-
HOUSE SELECT CORNITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF YEXBERS

FILE TITLE /RUULER/VOLUME: $COSC “ AVILA, CREALD SO i
ee

Pel AIILZIPA ——
_ Vel. __t
INCLUSIVE DATES: ae : -
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: :

ROOM: . fg

 

DELETIONS, IF ANY: La) 4 _
104-10164-10047

got ‘

  
  
   
 
  
        
    
         

 

 

 

5 fi
Brey i :
. - : .* ~ . . .
 gpenenees gS a} . - — = . —
- . ee ANS Weve te neo! ¥ >. .
: wear 14. Suem as 7 t957> :
Seer. cidents &s Aya) Bape sf :
~ of Necvevel’ eJTA (Septenben aay ve Se: va ‘
. Les pio eaee Poet pauemenk of Rate ef tafernetion: September 1949 fo
a x tetions, ; - .
5 _ * Phere Acquires: Havana, Cube . Bate Acquiree: Fangonber 23, es 4
G4 ?
: Srelwetion: Be) Bate of Repers: Fe September —
; : : 949 :
oe ay, an t

    

2. trelma ehtcn shoula by. 3
the Unirteen achouln is ad thew have comple

chy mine pte ee

 

E 4 sleation in) & i

a % State of con aJsorrani zation, :
, | Athenee nes president to wnceeed Enrique ov seat to have” a
7 deen elected tn Auguat, @ avirtes of incidents have postponed elece |
ie Clone in two of the thirtess, rehools. These. two schools now have
Set PFOWAaltonal presidents which has delayed the election of a Unie j
eo. . weraily Couneil.. a - :
yO 2. The recent police ra the Agronomy School has complicated |
Le t the attuation since Sone feu yt wie'aae arrested at that time, wae
ee at<en® of the School of ‘NeTonony and &@ candidate for the FEU :
ft. i - arene 7 .
a
ae 3 Landel ngs, iden’ Of the School of Medicine, and Baudilie
ote - Bion Wares eeTaeene : ra tat “School, were also detained after ~
4. ' the Killing ‘of Gustave MEJEA, whe was President of the Alumni Asgoew: |
%, elation of the Social Sciongds school, ; . if
eo 4. Students of the school: affected will have to call meetings to. |
Boo ratify the position of the provieneuar presidents and to take ==
*: Rone Beton concerning thoss schools where the president hag: '
7 . Placed under police Gekention, ; |
x. ,
x 3. Communists have to stron, leaders WalteriofCARBOWELl, & Bole
5 OFea atintent of the Law Scnete

       
 
   
 
  

2 and Li SOTO, President of the ‘~
" FeRdesophy ond Literature geh29), ene ad

r . »Ree

  

     
  
 
 

  

Chasat thoatien ; , . i
MEGISTRY OOPY 9 oo 292

mney i

 

 
104-10164-10047

  
   
  
   
 

    

e
a
,
‘ i ‘
eatin ah 5 : :
: ony te: wa Oradly se:
Pile 2 ore’ 7 Cote sing ee
Etate/rmb 2 ey, , Weterarn, i poy
° cite : Boy q
Ho other distripution, ee, {
AUDIVALEN? s Hons. _ Sos

Source, Operational Dete, aad Commenter “

 
  

   

  
  

i

   

 

 

. east ficasion }

1 wo

     

 

 

 
 
