14-00000

-

CRAC leaders asked him to accept the position of Presi-
dent of the government-in-exile but he was reluctant te do
so because he feared for the safety of his son, still in
Cuba. (4) Marquez has been in contact with most of the Cuban
exile leaders in the United States and has had some discus-
Sions with NUNEZ Portuondo,-his chief rival for the presi-
dency. syome sources maintain that Pedraza prefers him over
Nunez. (> It is believed that Marquez still has the support
of the Ortrodoxo Party in Cuba. (

D. Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz

Major DIAZ-Lanz has gained considerable publicity for his
break with Castro, his appearance before the Eastland Com-
mittee and his spectacular leaflet dropping over Havana on
21 October 1959. His brother Marcos, who was Inspector General
of the Revolutionary Air Force (FAR) joined him in Miami in
July and the two were until December closely associated with
Ricardo LORIE Valls, a former underground leader of the
26 July Movement. These three and a few other associates
have professed to have vigorous plans to overthrow Castro
but aside from the leaflet drop have not performed any par-
ticular actions of special importance. ( The Diaz-Lanz brothers
broke with Lorie, who appeared to have been the most mature 2
member of the group, for reasons which are not al all clear. (2)

The small group about Diaz-Lanz in conversation with U.S.
officials and private citizens has steadfastly refused to
have anything to do with former Batista officials while they
have stated their inten 4gn to take any measures to insure
the downfall of Castro. \?

In July 1959 Pedro DIAZ-Lanz stated that there is no
connection whatsoever between the anti-Castro forces in Cuba
and those in the United States. He regarded the followers
of MASFERRER, Justo Luis POKO, former Mayor of Havana, Jose
Luis PUJOL, NUNEZ Portuondo“and others as remnants of former
dictatorships which yguid not be acceptable to the Counter-
Revolution in Cuba. ¢ At the end of the year, however, Pedro
DIAZ-Lanz was reported as being willing to support Nunez
Portuondo if the latter would break with Trujillo. At the
sare time Diaz-Lanz is reported to have aztempted to obtain
$50,000 from agents of Pedraza in Miami. ) I€ this attempt
actually was made, it seems to indicate at last a willingness
on the part of Diaz-Lanz to work with Pedraza, something he
haé hitherto steadfastly refused to consider.

6
74-00000

eer

E. Fabio FREYRE
RE

Claims that he has Organized the Accion Democratica Cubana

tary leader.
up the principal points of an agreement for the liberation

for the invading forces, Sabotage and various PSychological
warfare techniques. Freyre's following in the U.S. is esti-
mated at some 200, while those based in Cuba, under the
leadership of Juan Antonio RUBIO Padilla, number about 350,
including commandos, army pilots and young officers. Freyre
Claims that the Cuban people have no confidence in General
Martin DIAZ Tamayo or Colonel BARQUIN. (2) Hence, it is as-
Sumed that they are not among FREYRE's supporters -

F. Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro
RO RAE GUEZ Couceiro

Rodriguez

Claims he asked Trujillo and General Pedraza for arms to

defend the Isle of Pines once he had taken it but they

turned him down. (6) Recently, however, Rodriguez stated that

General Pedraza had Signed an agreement putting his men in

the Dominican Rgpublic and the Dominican anti-Castro radio
Rodriguez also claims he has the promise

G. Orlando Eleno PIEDRA Negueruela
EEA Ne gueruela

an
14-00000

roe : . . . ‘ .

has promoted Pedraza as military leader since the springs
of 1959. Nunez as recently as 14 December 1959 still
claimed to be the leader of Pedraza's group but the General
had previously asserted that he was disposed to work with
both Nunez and Carlos MARQUE? fterling but he preferred the
latter as interim president. 5

Another possible adherent of Nunez is Pedro DIAZ-Lanz,
who is reported to have declared that he, and other with
whom he is working, would consider Nunez acceptable if he
should divorce himself from Trujillo. A step in this direc-
tion was taken by Nunez at the end of December when,
irritated by Trujillo's reluctance to permit a Pedraza
invasion of Cuba from the Dominican Republic, he told
Trujillo that he would take matters in his own hands if the
action they had planned was not taken by 7 January.

C. Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling

Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling comes from-a family with a dis-
tinguished record in Cuban History. He was born in 1899 in
Camaguay and received his education in Cuba, graduating
£rom the University of Havana with a law degree in 1920.
Three years later he became a professor at the University.
It.was from the same Univeristy that he was removed in 1959
by Castro forces. MARQUEZ Sterling told American officials
that Fidel Castro had been one of his students at the Univer-
sity of Havana 1945-1947, and that Fidel had been reared
in an atmosphere of hatred for the United States.

His political career began while he was still in his

teens and he was arrested and imprisoned for his activities

in. the revolution of 1917. During the thirties he lived in
Washington while his father was Ambassador. Later he re-
entered politics and became Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives. He had a hand in the establishment of the
Ortodoxo Party in 1946. Previously Marquez had presided
‘over the drafting of the Constitution of 1940. A former
Presidential candidate and a leader of the Partido del Pueblo
Libre (PPL) which he established in July 1957, Marquez Sterling
appears to enjoy the respect, if not necessarily the full
confidence, of many leading Cuban exiles in the United States.)

5
74-00000

re

Cuba along with Castro, Batista, Masferrer. (9) Recent evi-
dence, however, indicates that there is a possibility that
the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force may be
reconsidering his previously inflexible attitude towards
Pedraza. :

B. Emilio NUNEZ Portuondo

 

NUNEZ Portuondf, now residing in Washington, D.C., was
one of the first to declare his candidacy for the leadership
of an anti-Castro movement. A former politician, lawyer
and diplomat Nunez was Cuba's delegate to the United Nations
from 1952 until 1958. During this period he cooperated with
the US delegation and was outspokenly critical of-the USSR.
Most Cubans in the United States, and in those Latin American
countries where he and his followers have solicited support
for their anti-Castro activities are under the impression that
he has some type of commitment with the US Government. Al-
though he continues to be mentioned, along with Carlos
MARQUEZ Sterling, as the most likely candidate for provisional
president of a successor government to Castro, some sources
have alleged that he would not make an effective president. (1)

Nunez* announced aim is the overthrow of the Castro re-
gime and its replacement by a civil government friendly to
the US and excluding individuals associated with Batista.
To this end he and his immediate followers have published a
newsletter and periodically dropped leaflets over Cuba at-
tacking Castro. They also have directed the paramilitary
training of a small number of Cubans in Miami, some of whom
subsequently participated in an abortive invasion of Cuba
in August.(2) In addition Nunez and his followers have been
in.close contact with other leading exiles in the US. Dur-
ing the fall of 1959 he and his adherents travelled to Mexico,
Guatemala, Panama, Argentina and Peru to solicit support for
an anti-Castro movement. They also have attempted to organize
units in Venezuela.

There is no firm evidence that these efforts have suc-
ceeded. However, Santiago REY's group in Mexico has supported
nunez for provisional Rygsident if the efforts to overthrow
Castro are successful. General Pedraza, in the Dominican
Republic, has supported Nunez for president and Nunez in turn

4

ga
74-0000

GOP Es

A. General Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA y Cabrera

 

When mention is made of military measures to eliminate
the Castro regime attention inevitably focuses on General
Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA y Cabrera. While opinions differ
as to his suitability for the role of leader of a military
attack on the Castro forces, he is regarded by the most
prominent and most active exile leaders in the United States
as the only military leader in a position to take effective
action in the field against Castro.

The forces at his disposal in the Dominican Republic,
the loyalties he can command within’ Cuba, and the help he
can get from exiles in the United States have been variously
estimated from a mere handful to several thousand. He,
himself, has stated in a memorandum to a prominent American
businessman that he hoped he could count on a force of 2,000,
led by 100 former Officers and Non-Commissioned officers of
Cuban origin. The remainder of his force would be made up
of Spaniards, Yugoslavs, Germans, and perhaps a few Dominicans. (1
PEDRAZA has expressed his willingness to work with General
Martin DIAZ Tamayo and Colonel Ramon BARQUIN and would wel-
come their cooperation but he has never hinted that he would
turn over leadership of his forces to either.

i Former Castro supporter Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro,
who claims to have been one of the prime organizers of two
anti-Castro groupings The Anti-Communist Crusade (CRAC) and
The Christian Democratic Action (ADC) has backed PEDRAZA as
the military leader of gny expedition which should be launched
against Fidel Castro. (2 Rodriguez claims to have visited the
General late in October 1959 and to have reached an agreement
whereby Pedraza committed himself to clean up his force of
men in the Dominican Republic and put them under the direc-
tion and control of the ADC. Rodriguez asserts that the
agreement provides for the elimination of all but Cuban
nationals from the forces in the Dominican Republic under
Pedraza.

Fabio FREYRE, a wealthy young Cuban--who also claims
to be the founder of the ADC--has made known his connections
with Pedraza and claims to have drawn up points of agreement
with him. (3) Freyre has stated that General PEDRAZA is the
74-00000

only Cuban general whom the constitutional army would follow.
He adds that Pedraza was not closely identified with Batista's
coming to power but when the Dictator needed help Pedraza

was made head of the army. FREYRE believes that the Cubans
do not hay¢ confidence in Martin DIAZ Tamayo nor in Ramon
BARQUIN. (

Dr. Emilio NUNEZ Portuondg, now resident in Washington,
D.C., and oné of the more prominent anti-Castro exiles, has
consistently tried to align the various anti-Castro elements
in the United States, Mexico, and Cuba behind General Pedraza. (5)
Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling, who at the moment appears to be
Pedraza's choice for provisional president, if efforts to
unseat Castro succeed has supported the military role of the
General.

General Pedraza's service under Fulgencio Batista has
left a bad taste in: the mouths of many Cubans who hated the
Batista dictatorship as vehemently as they now detest the
Castro regime. There seems to be reasonable doubt that Dr.
CUERVO-RUBIO, whom RODRIGUEZ Couceiro has claimed CRAC sup-
ports as a presidential candidate, would support Pedraza.
CUERVO-Rubio is reported to have stated that responsible
opposition to Castro inside Cuba would be reluctant to asso-
ciate with Pedraza and might join in the fight against him
should he attempt an invasion. Some of these people have
repeatedly expressed the fear that Castro might use such
an invasion as a pretext to suppress all opposition. (7) Prom-
inent Orthodox Party leader Antonio VARONA also is reported
to be worried about the possibility of an invasion of Cuba
by Pedraza, to whom he is bitterly opposed and has sworn
that he and his followers would join with the Castro brothers
in repelling any invasion led by Pedraza.(8) It is considered
a distinct possibility that a Pedraza led invasion would play
imto Castro's hands, leaving internal opposition no alterna-
tive but to join Castrg in a national effort to repel a
Bastistiano invasion. )

It is known that FREYRE's ADC which supports Pedraza
for military leader would welcome the assistance and the
support of the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force
Major Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz. However, DIAZ-Lanz has made
it very evident that he wants no part in military affairs
run by General Pedraza whom he categorizes as an enemy of
 

   
    
 
     
   
   
      

: 1 OATE
TRANSMITTAL SLIP

 

 

BUILDING

 

The attached is a retype of
thermofax copy of a report
entitled Anti-Castro Activities

in the U.S (dated 1/15/60).

 

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FORM HO 94) REPLACES FORM 36-8 wm

FEB SS WHICH MAY BE USED.

APPROVED FOR RELFASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVEN PROGRAM
 

 

 

104-10121-10400 ° Te

 
 

8 July 1960

by WH regarding anti- -CASTRO
The date of the report is-

 
14-00000

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

(Summary)

18 January 1960
74-0000

SEger:

1. ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES I THE UNITED STATES

Efforts of Cuban exiles based in the United States since
the fall of Batista and the assumption of power by the Castro
regime on 1 January 1959 have been characterized by continu-
ally shifting alliances aimed at securing for their leaders
a paramount position in any successor government in their
homeland. Programs have been enunciated by individual leaders,
organization lists drawn up, and funds solicited. Consider-
able propaganda has been published, and leaflets attacking
Castro have been dropped over Cuba periodically. _ Some mili-
tary and paramilitary training has been undertaken, particularly
in the Dominican Republic where a force ranging from a claimed
80 men to several thousand has been training for the past
nine months. Some exiles claim to have armed followers in
Cuba as well as a larger number of sympathizers. There has
been one abortive invasion attempt.

These efforts have been weakened, however, by rivalries
between the more prominent exiles for leadership of any for-
mal anti-Castro movement established, and their failure to
agree on any program. Their activities also have been affected
by the fact that most of the exiles were connected either
actively or passively with the Batista regime. They recognize,
although they do not always admit this, that Batista's rule
is still too unpopular with the mass of Cubans for them to
engage in a successful effort to overthrow Castro unless they
are supported by a force far larger than any can command at
present.

These rivalries plus Castro's followers’ long training
in revolutionary methods appear to have enabled Castro to
jearn the plans of most of the alliances formed thus far well
before they are put into action.

Nevertheless there has been, and continues to be, a general
recognition by most of the more prominent exiles that they
must unite if they are to succeed in removing the present re-
gime. The most important potential leaders of any such move-

ment to emerge so far are listed below under separate headings.
