 

 

 

 
 

Sree oe!

Soeyt ts
wide SS

 

 
 
 
  

(7 Cems

 
  
 
  

BUNS TIGR,

  
 

  

praeteneney

 

we AG

 

VG

ony Cuscn

 

 

 

 

shoce two fovecs sx

2,
nae #
coe Aa

oussiled sy

SSCRINEL

SANTIAC

     
  

   
  

     
    

    

 

cecussay

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

 

 

 

-a we ee

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

      
  
   

   

 

i a vy
we sea RA .
Tor JI-DASTAD SThoIn
mas Ge ese
a eee me
OMe nee Sencar, “- -
WaovsZoze,
& Capccity vo cauzy cut his
ssueetens
pewetions
owes?
- saqyeey ere cneenees Awyen
- av usc

 
 
 

ES Te eee

  

vy

 

 

i
' .

   
   

 
 
  

 

  

 

 

 

SERRE Ve ea etRretni wo ei cde enone vente oe
 

 

 

i
i

 

 

 

 

 

seo, faeULae .
wee Ce, abe

     

we error Le
WoRNw SEO SNEOY = CUA PS

 
 
 

ovation

  

   

    
   
  
      
  
 

   

Acnavican soléiex.

Yovaluslonssy

sen OF ~
avy SOot
Weeeevou

   

way ow
acoVve fa

popenanen? eeann)

 

 

Geel OL

     

 

SaNonoscs Worn

    

 

    
     

 

 
74-00000

nn On ee

Pa

of. #TI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

a woe Sometime. later the "Violyn III" <andvensthep boat
ete the Florida area, On the day of the departure of these
vessels, Fiorini, Bill Johnson, a pilot, and Jerry Buchanan,
an adventurer, rented a small. boat and made a rendezvous with
the other two boats at sea, Buchanan transferred to one of
these two vessels and gasoline and food supplies. which had
been on the small boat were loaded. atoord these two vessels,
Fiorin{ and Jehnson then returned to Florida in the rented
. boat. and the other two continued on their way.
poem Boe tye fe:
dc she Loubsequently Fiorial, Johnson and Jose Maria
iV 4 Gonzalez Hernandez “a Cuban radio operator, proceeded to
Nassau, Bahamas, rented a plane and flew to Norman Key in
the Bahamas, Immediately thereafter this group was arrested
by British authorities who sent them back to Miami, Florida.
Several.hours after Fiorini was arrested on Norman Key, the
British stopped and boarded the "Violyn ILI" and arrested
Buchanan and a number of Cubans who were aboard, On
fpril 4, 1963, the British released the “Violyn I1i" and its
crew with instructions that they should proceed to Miami.

The other boat escaped, Rr. agin Tits of Grvup hue 1 Cl baal

rwleranevnisl (Ming, € stn baa are

On April 4, 1963, FlorfAi claimed he had been in
radio contact with the boat that had escaped and that it was
then docked at an island in the Bahamas, Fiorini did not
disclose the exact location of the boat but claimed he could
‘supply it with food and fuel if requested and that he hed an
airplane and two fast power boats available in the Miant area,

-2-
74-00000

 

er . ™- ;
Eg BIPZF

CONFIDENTIAL

 

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

Andros Island in the Bahamas. Because the "Vialyn IIL"
was in shallow water, the U. S. Coast Guard discontinued
its surveillance of the '"Violyn ILI" by boat, and the sur-
veiLllence was taken over by U. S. Coast Guard. aircraft. .
At about 8:20 °P.M., the "Violya IIL" turned off its running
lights and had not been seen by. the Coast: Guard. eince that
time. : .

MM T-4 reported that there is a Sigma-type Cuban
fishing boat which was stopped near Williams Key off the
coast of Andzews Island on April 5, 1963, MM t-4 said this
Signa boat was possibly the boat that was supposed to rendez~
yous with the "Violynn III" for an infiltration mission in-
to Cuba. There is an airplane Landing strip at Williams Key-
which could not be used because someone had placed a great
quantity of rocks and driftwood on the runway. ‘

: Oa April 5, 1963, Mr. Chester A. Woish, Chief,
Investigations Branch, Imaigration and Naturalization Service,
HlamL, advised that the "Violya ILI" had just arrived at the
seawall, Key Biscayne, Miaml., The Cubana eboard were to be
taken by INS authorities to INS detention facility at Opa
Locka, Florida, where interviews were to be conducted, and
any Unites States citizens on board were to be taken by INS
authorities to INS Headquarters in Miami, where these indi- .
viduals would be interviewed for any possible violations of
Federal law concerning U.S. passport regulations.

; Property of SBI - This document is loaned to you by
the Fal, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed

outside the agency to which loaned.

CONFIDENTIAL
74-00000

4

te ee > ise 2 F(T

See DLA /- oan

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ;
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION :

: WASMIRCTOR 3% Be.

: Bay p . April 8, 1963

MICROFILM «oD
APR \7 1983
Dog, MICRO, SE

 
    

 

a) '  ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

  

The "Violyn III," a boat utilized by N
Anticommunist Ary, Escambray Front, in its anti-Castro
activities, was recently captured by British authorities
together with a number of anti-Castro raiders, The boat
and the enti-Castro raiders have subsequently returned. to
Miami, Florida, : :

In this connection sn informant who has furnished
xreliable information in the past on April 4, 1963, advised, >.
that during the previous evening Frank Anthony Sturgis, who)...
{s more commonly known as Frank Fiorini, « former Castro
supporter and an American soldter of fortune who has been
engaged in anti.Castro endeavors since his break with the
Castro regime, stated that until recently the "Violyn III"!
had been located at. Naples, Florida, under Fiorini’s control,
An infiltration mission had been planned by Fiorini and
Evelio Duque, leader of the Cuban Anticommunist Army, Escambray
Front, whereby Duque and his men would infiltrate into Cuba
and would later be supplied by Fiorini by plane from the
United States,

 

Fiorini stated he had acranged with Alexander I,

Rorke, Jr., a free-lance newspaperman whe has been involved
in anti-Castro activities, for the use of the 'Violyn III,"
j Rorke permitted the use of this boat but stated that he
wanted his organization, the U, S. Freedom Fighters, to
receive some of the credit for any Successes achieved,
Rorke subsequently changed his mind and wanted the boat back
but Florint claimed that it had depdrted and that he did not
know where it was, .

 

 

SCM Qe aveasc

 
74-00000

‘
:
*

 

CONFIDENTIAL

 

RZ: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOYUNLSTA ~~

Covernsent, and Fiorini would later supply them by aire
‘plene from the United States. Duque was described as &
Ccban exile residing in Miami, Florida, who is active in
eati-Castro activities. bees an

- :

Fiorini claimed to have arranged for the use
o£ the boat "Violyn LIL," and made the arrangemence with
the owner, Alexander I. Rorke, Jx., free lance newspaper
man, w20 has been periodically involved in Cuban revolu-
tionary activities. Rorke agreed to allow Fiorini use of
the boat if, in return, Rorke’s organization, U. S. Frecdon
vighrera, would receive credit for any success accomplished

Ly Florini.

Later, this boat waa moved toe Marco, Florida,
oa the Culf of Mexico side of Florida. Thereafter, Rorke
changed his aind and wanted the boat back, but FlortalL
clziced he did not know where.the boat was, or where it had
gone. one time later, the “Viclyn LIL" and another large
bess Llefe the Florida area.

acer the "Y{olyn ILL" left from somewhere on the

¢ of Florida, Frank Plorini, along with airplane

Yess Coas

pilot Bill Johnson and Jerry Buchanan, an American adventurer,
‘ented a small boast and met the "Violyn III" and the othar
lezge bo The small boat loaded on to the two lare

we

 
 

‘toa t0221-t0220

cope aren hee RAN Bee

 

~

t

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE . “9G :
Spe BET

FEDENAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Plaase Hofer to . .

File Ne

ounknown source,

Mianl, Florida , ne
APR 10 1553 . ;

CONFIDENTIAL : om

RE: __EJERCLTO CUBANO ANTECOMUNISTA

(FRENTE ESCAMBRAY)

- (CUBAN ANTI-COSSUNIST ARMY) . a

(ESCAMBRAY FRONT); . he
INTERNAL SECURITY. - CUBA; oo - :

REGISTRATION ACT ~ CUBA; .

NEUTRALITY MATTER. !

On April 4, 1963, MM T-1, who has furnished re-
liable inforwation in the past, obtained information from
a source who is involved with American criminal elements
in New York and Niamt, who obtained information from.an
whose reliability ds unknown, but who Le
in a position to furnish some information concerning this
m.tcer. pele a 460.98 C.

d that in the-Late evening hours of ‘
hony Sturgis’, also known a3 Prank

of fortune involved ia Cuban
rovolustonary activities, reportedly stated that until re-

‘cently, the "Viol III" had been located in Naples, Florida,

under Fiorini's control. Florint continued that an infiltra-

tlea aisston was planned by Florini and Evelio Duque (matro~

nyale; nase unknown), wnerein Duque and his men would Lufiltrate

dato Cubs to engage in guerrilla activities against the Cuban

/

It. was reportc
April 3, 1953, Frank Ant
Tiovini, an Averican soldier

 

Eneluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassificaction.
 

CONFIDENTIAL

 

RE: EJERCLTO.CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

boardc.. the "Violyn IIZ." The two Largor boats then
departed for an unknown destination. Fiorini and Johnson
returned to Florida in the small boat.

 

MAL T+)

 

 

 

“On Apeil 3, 1963, M4 T-3, who has furnished reliable’
information in the past, obtained sone faformation from an
untested zource with contacts in the Bahamas, who obtained
inforaatic.. from an unideatified person, He advised that it
way repocted that several hourg after Plorint waa erreated
on Norman Key, British suthorities in the Bahemag stopped and
boarded the "Violyn III" and arrested some thirteen Cubans
end Jexry Buchanan who were aboard,

of On April 4, 1963, M4 T-3 advised that the British
authorities released the "Violyn IIL" and the crew, and fao-
etructed them to proceed to Miami. The other boat which
¥y accenpanted the “Violyn III," nage of this boat
: he by the British and the

originell
unknown, escaped and was being soug

. United States Coast Guard.

CONFIDENTIAL

-3-°

te

 
74-00000

 

 

:

’

4

4

Ne

CONFIDENTIAL

 

RE: EJERCTTO-OVRAND A ANTICOMUNISTA

: on April. ‘4, 1963, Florint reportedly claimed that
he had been in radio contact with the above-mentioned uniden<
tified boat, and it was tied up at an island in the Bahamas,
exact location of which was not disclosed, The boat was re-~
portedly camouflaged and heard the U. S. Coast Guard planes
flyirig dbove in an effort to locate it. Fiorini claimed he
could supply this unidentified boat with fuel and food, 1£ .
requested by this boat, and that he had available an Aero-
Commander airplane in Miami and two fast powerboats | Igcated
somewnere north of Miami, It was not known what manner of
radio communication was used by Fiorini to contact the un-

identified boat.

Ga April 4, 1963, local newspaper, radio. stations
and telovisioa stations in Miemi, Florida, reported that the
“Violya LLL" had departed from Nassau and was enroute to
Miemi with a U. S. Coast Guard escort. Miami Attorney Charles
R. Asheann made press announcenients that the crew of the "Vio=
would not xraturn to the United States.

 

tya fIE"
, In the carly morning hours of April 5, 1963, Mi T<3

advisad that Ashmann claimed the "Violyn ILI" would rendez~
vous with che other unidentified boat and would completa its

iniilerction nission to Cuba.

On April 5, 1963, %% T-4, a repres sentative of another

Government agency, advised -that on the afcernoon-of April 4,

1953, the "Violyn ILI" left Nassau, Bahamas, on a general course
United States, and at that date was at the north tip of

for the

CONFIDENTIAL

 

! abe

i

\
