13-00000

 

 
   

JOINT STAFF PAPERS (147 documents)

Using broad topic guidelines provided previously by ARRB staff, the Joint Staff at the
Pentagon has reviewed 40 boxes of records of Joint Chiefs Chairmen Lyman Lemnitzer,

Topics:

(i) Iccca (Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs)
meetings regarding future US. policy toward Cuba.

(2) Pera) ane mmitie) meetings and decisions and covert

(3). Cubancoup planning.

(4) Vietnam coup planning, and discussion of Diem and Nhu.

(5) OPLAN 34A (covert actions against North Vietnam).

(©) US. military strength levels in Vietnam.

Apparent Equities:

Multiple agency equities appear to apply to virtually every document—usually
State, OSD and/or NSC. The Joint Staff has stated in writing that it is prepared
‘ ne ification in

with agencies which have equities, and then accession the declassified
documents to NARA. Currently the Joint Staff is awaiting guidance from ARRB
Staff on which of the tabbed folders we desire to have placed in the collection;
upon receipt of that guidance, they will commence deciassification review.

Horne e:\wp-docs \ointstaft.wpd

File: 404

  
13-00000

 

“- gy 8D '17:08 PAX 202 724 0457 __-ABRB. : oor

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20630
(202) 724-0088 » Fax: (202) 724-0457

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

TO: Mr. J. Barry Harrelson, Central Intelligence Agency HRG
"FROM: eg ts Amtamion pertinent
SUBJECT: Declassification Session for Califano Papers and Joint Staff/JCS Records

1. The joint declassification session mentioned in our letters to the Army (re: th Joseph
Callfano Papers) and to the Joint Secretariat (re: Selected Papers of Chairmen
Lemmnitzer, Taylor, and Wheeler, and selected JCS Central Files) of June 9, 1997 is
scheduled to take place during the four-day window Monday, July 21-Thureday, July
24, inclusive. The first session will commence at 9:00 A.M. Monday moming Fay ot
the ARRB offices in room 207 of the Bicentennial Building, located at 600 E Street, NW

(at the comer of E Street NW and 6th Street).

2. Our offices are located equidistant from the following three Metro stations:
Archives/Navy Memorial (Yellow Line); Judiclary Square (Red Line); and Gallery Place
(Red Line). Parking Garages are located in the basement of the Bicentennial Building,
and also across the street from us in the basement of the ARKP building. 4

3. Please fax the names, SSNs, and clearance information for CLA attendees to Tracy

’ Shycoff on our staff at fax number (202) 724-0457 prior to close-of-business on
Wednesday, July 16, 1997. Please indicate on your visit request that the period of the
visit is through the end of calendar year 1997, since it is anticipated that our efforts to
expedite declassification of. these documents will take more than one session to
“accomplish. So

4. Wloka te wong petal witha of ope nth nei

 

4

 

Beauo Manusns: Joho A. Tunheim, Chair» Henry F, Graft « Kermit (. Hail « Wittlem L. Joyce » Anna K: Nelson
Gxecuvive Gmscroa: David G. Merwall

 
13-00000

     

  

Messrs. Aly and McBride
June 9, 1997
Page 3

-

equities in the records, declassify them, and simply hand them across the table to other
agencies for their review. It has been our own experience that sessions of this sort
greatly simply the review process by giving agencies the opportunity to speak with
each other and quickly to resolve questions.

Because these papers will need to be reviewed by the Board at its August 5-6 meeting,
we believe that an arrangement such as is proposed above will provide all agencies ©
with a full opportunity to identify their equities in the records and to make
determinations regarding the need for continued classification. If.the Joint Staff and the
Department of Defense are agreeable to such an arrangement, the Review Board will
take the responsibility for contacting all non-military agencies with equities in the
records while the Joint Staff and DoD make arrangements for all appropiiate military-
entities to be present. .

We are, of course, very willing to consider other ideas or suggestions that you might
have. However, because the clock is ticking, it is important that we promptly develop a
plan that will provide all agencies with equities in these Joint Staff/JCS papers to have
an opportunity to review and declassify their equities.

ng, this issue with you.
13-00000

   

  

Messrs. Aly and McBride
June 9, 1997
Page2

The Review Board staff is prepared to assist you in making arrangements for a prompt
and efficient review of these selected papers of Joint Chiefs Lemnitzer, Taylor, and
Wheeler, and the Joint Staff Central Files.?

__ Preliminary Review of Papers of ]CS Chairmen and Joint Staff Central Files

The Review Board staff has conducted an initial review of the records and has
tentatively reached the following conclusions: first, the records are very similar in
subject manner to many other records that already are a part of the JFK Collection;
second, although the vast majority of the records technically remain classified, there is
-little remaining sensitivity due to the passage of time and to the release of much of the
information in other contexts; and third, these papers contain equities of numerous ; .

military and non-military agencies, which, under the standard referral process, would oe

be very difficult and time-consuming. Thus, the logistical problem in declassifying the
records is not the continued sensitivity of the records, but the number of agencies that
will need to review their own equities in the records. For this reason, and for the short
time-line on which we are now operating, we believe that there is an urgent need to
make acceptable arrangements for the review and referral of records.

Proposal

In order to expedite the process and make it more efficient, we would like to propose an
alternate arrangement for declassification of records that we previously have found
effective. We suggest the holding of a multi-agency concurrent review of these papers
of the three aforementioned JCS Chairmen and the JCS Central Files. We would like to
schedule a single session at our offices, on or before July 23, 1997, where all agencies
with equities in these JCS/Joint Staff papers be concurrently present for a
declassification review. At such a session, agencies would be able to review their own

be able to revisit the schedule proposed below.

*The Joint Staff’s Initial Statement of Compliance to the Review Board, dated
February 6, 1997, identified in detail the process by which these records were located—
namely, which files were searched, and who participated in the searches. Mr. Edmund
McBride, Chief of the Joint Staff Information Management Division, indicated in this
statement that the Joint Staff was standing by to expeditiously process these records for
declassification in collaboration with other agencies when the ARRB was ready. ARRB
staff has only recently completed its initial review of these records, which constitute
selectively flagged folders within 40 boxes of JCS and Joint Staff records.
13-00000

   
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
     
    

i JOINT: STAFF PAPERS (147 documents)

“Using rs top gules provided previously by ARRB staff, the Joint Staff at the
Pentagon has reviewed 40 boxes of records of Joint Chiefs Chairmen Lyman Lemnitzer,
Maxwell Taylor, and Earle Wheeler for 1961-1964, as well as JCS central files for 1962”
and 1963, and has flagged 147 documents which will enhance the historical :
of the Kennedy administration, and which some scholars will believe

may be relevant to the assassination. .
Topics: ;
. (1) ICCA (interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs)
meetings regarding future US. policy toward Cuba.

Q) Set Gow tt cn tn deo ed orn
(3) _ Cuban coup planning. ; .
4) - Vietnam coup planning, and discussion of Diem and Nhu.
6) OPLAN 34A (covert actions against North Vietnam).
© US. military strength levels in Vietnam.

Apparent Equities: ,

Multiple agency equities appear to apply to virtually every document—usually
_ State, OSD and/or NSC. The Joint Staff has stated in writing that it is prepared
to expeditiously process these documents for declassification in collaboration
with agencies which have equities, and then accession the declassified
documents to NARA. Currently the Joint Staff is awaiting guidance from ARRB
staff on which of the tabbed folders we desire to have placed in the collection;
upon receipt of that guidance, they will commence declassification review.

Home e: \ wp-docs \Jointstaff. wed
File: 4.0.4
13-00000

    
    
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
       

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor > Washington, DC 20530
“i es (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202} 724-0457

ee i
% :
fey go”

 

s

June 9, 1997
Stewart F. Al

Associate Deputy General Counsel

Office of General

Department of Defense

1600 Defense Pentagon

Washington, DC 20301-1600

 

Re: Propo fora Mt Agere Deiifinton Review of Sls Paper of CS
Chairmen Lemnitzer, Taylor and Wheeler, and Selected JCS Central:Files: ::

Gentlemen:

The Assassination Records Review Board would like to make arrangements with you to

approximately 147 records previously flagged by the Joint Staff from both the
JCS Central Files, and the papers of JCS Chairmen Lemnitzer, Taylor and Wheeler. The
i from

searches directed by Mr. Edmund McBride (Chief, Information Management Division, °
- Joint Staff) at the request of the ARRB staff. With one exception, ARRB staff feels that .
all records flagged by Mr. McBride’s working group are relevant to the historical

or context of the assassination of President Kennedy. A description of
the records, which primarily pertain to U.S. activities related to Cuba, or to Vietnam
policy, is attached hereto. We have identified what appear to us to be equities of
numerous military entities in these papers, Te earite Coan nd ate intelligence
Agency, the State Department, the National Security Council, and others.

Deadlines

_ Due to the volume of the records, and the Review Board’s current sunset date of
September 30, 1997, it is important that we proceed expeditiously in our review of the
- secords.’ We have slated these papers for review by the Board at its August 5-6,1997 meeting.

'The Review Board is seeking from Congress a one-year, one-time extension to
September 30, 1998. Congressman Dan Burton is sponsoring a bill to extend the life of
‘the Review Board. Should the Review Board receive the proposed extension, we may

 

Boary Memanns: John R. Tunhsim, Chair ¢ Henry F Graff + Karmit l. Halt + William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Executive Diaecroa: David G. Marwell
13-00000

   

 

  

Preliminary Review of Califano Papers

The Review Board staff has conducted an initial review of the records and has
tentatively reached the following conclusions: first, the records are very similar in
subject manner to many other records that already are a part of the JFK Collection;
second, although the vast majority of the records technically remain classified, there is
little remaining sensitivity due to the passage of time and to the release of much of the
information in other contexts; and third, the Califano papers contain equities of

the records is not the continued sensltivity of the recerds, but the number _
of agencies that will need to review their own equities in the records. For this reason,
and for the short time-line on which we are now operating, we believe that there is an
urgent need to make acceptable arrangements for the review and referral of records.

Proposal .
In order to expedite the process and make it more efficient, we would like to prapose an

' alternate arrangement for declassification of records that we previously have found

effective. We suggest the holding of a multi-agency concurrent review of the Califano
papers. We would like to schedule a single session at our offices, on or before July 23,
1997, where all agencies with equities in the Califano papers be concurrently present for

_ adeclassification review. At such a session, agencies would be able to review their own

equities in the records, declassify them, and simply hand them across the table to otlier —
‘agencies for their review. Jt has béen our own experience that sessions of this sort
greatly simply the review process by giving agencies the opportunity to speak with

each other and quickly to resolve questions.

Because the Califano papers will need to be reviewed by the Board at its August 5-6

" meeting, we believe that an arrangement such as is proposed above will provide all

agencies with a full opportunity to identify their equities in the records and to make

determinations regarding the need for continued classification. If the Army and the

*Ms. Toni Bowie, of the Army Declassification Activity, spent three days
reviewing some of the records and making recommendations for referrals to other
agencies both within and outside of the military. Although Ms. Bowie worked
energetically for three days, it was our sense afterwards that, if we continue at the same
pace, the agencies with equities will likely not be able to complete their reviews before
the August deadline arrives.
104-10333-10014

 

 

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW < 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
| (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO y a
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF CiA INFORMATION

INTHIS DOCUMENS tonel James R. Moore, jr. US.A.
Officer,

 

Re: Proposal for a Multi-Agenty Declassification Review of Joseph Califano's Army .

Papers under theJFK Act
The Assassination Records Review Board would like to make arrangements with you to
declassify six boxes of Army records from the files of Joseph Califano. The files date.
principally from the period 1962-63, during which Mr. Califano served as Army General
Counsel and as Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Army. The records had been
deposited at the National Archives and Records Administration, where they were
recently located. A description of the records, which primarily pertain to US. activities _
related to Cuba, is attached hereto. We have identified what appears to us to be
equities of numerous military entities in the Califano papers as well as equities of the
Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, the United States Information
Agency, and others.

Deadlines

Due to the volume of the records, and the Review Board’s current sunset date of
September 30, 1997, it is important that we proceed expeditiously in our review of the
records.’ We have slated the Califano papers for review by the Board at its August 5-6,1997 —
meeting. ‘The Review Board staff is prepared to assist you in making arrangements for a
prompt and efficent review of the Callfano papers.

‘The Review Board is seeking from Congress a one-year, one-time extension to
September 30, 1998. Congressman Dan Burton is sponsoting a bill to extend the life of
the Review Board. Should eoreeed baleen te Proposed extension, we may
be able to revisit the schedule proposed below. -

 

Boane Memecns: John A. Tunheim, Chair +» Henry F. Graff + Kermit L, Hall « William L. Joyce + Anna K, Nelson
Execurve Diaecron: David G. Marwell

 
13-00000

 

of Defense are agreeable to such an arrangement, the Review Board will

Department
-take the responsibility for contacting all non-military agencies with equities in the
. records while Army and DoD make arrangements for all appropriate military entities to :

be present.
We are, of course, very willing to consider other ideas or suggestions that you might
have. However, because the clock is ticking, it is important that we promptly develop a

plan that will provide all agencies with equities in the Califano papers to have an
opportunity to review and declassify their equities.

I look forward to discussing this issue with you.

   

Attachment

cc: Steven D. Tilley, NARA

 
13-00000

   
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
    

.. JOSHPH CALIFANO PAPERS (6 boxes)

Identified by Steve Tilley at NARA, these 6 boxes of papers, almost exclusively from
1962-63, were either generated by, or addressed to Joseph Califano, who at this time
was Department of the Army General Counsel and Special Assistant to the Secretary of
_ the Army. Most of the documents are short summaries of proposed policy positions, or
letters of transmittal, with voluminous appendices attached. Each of the 6 boxes
‘contains approximately 1500-2000 pages of material.

Representative Topics:
: @ ICCCA (interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs—the
. “Cottrell Committee”) meetings on future U.S. policy toward Cuba. These
- documents are generally background papers prepared prior to theetings, -

minutes of meetings, or follow-on discussion of action items assigned at
meetings of the ICCCA.

Q Contingency plans for Cuban invasion by the US. military in the event of
a Cuban uprising.

@) Peychological warfare against Cuba.

(4) Diplomatic initiatives intended to increase isolation of Cuba.

©) Biographies, and evaluations of Cuban exile leaders.

© Intelligence reports and estimates on reported events inside Cuba.

”) Summaries of clandestine paramilitary actions taken against Cuba, and :
suggestions for possible future actions.

Apparent Equities:

Ninety-five per cent of the documents appear to have multiple-agency equities,
usually 4 to 6 agencies per document. Based upon staff review, it is estimated
that 80% of the documents have State equities, 60% Joint Staff or OSD, 60% NSC,
60% CIA, 15% Army, Navy or Air Force, perhaps 10% DIA, and a small
percentage of USIA, Justice, Treasury and FBI.

Horne e:\wp-docs\Califano.wpd
File: 4.0.4
