 

 

 

|
4

da.

f.

Ge

i.

vabntl

TN OG

Vadim MEDISH - CLA Contract Agent in employ of 5R Division
stationed in) In process of being terminated after
identification as former NKVD agent,,a former Abwehr agent,
and subsequent agent activity in behalf ef the Soviets while in
DP camps.

 

Kasua KANAZAWA ~ Cousin of Valentin HAHN; at one time waa
proposed for operational use by this Agency. .

Charlotte BERGHOLTZ - Close friend of Anastasiya SNOW neo
YANKOVSELY,.

Golli-Grigorevna and Marguerita PODSTAVINA - PODSTAVINA
is the Gedmother of Arseniy YANKOVSKIY.

BWiekales Baasat. memnmmmr ate

. xt =. empioyee Of SR Division
fi onde: cover. Former FBI
employee.

George PARIS (Spelling as picked up originally by Office of
Security in written report of Polygraph examination repert, and
therefore likely phonetic.) « Greek businessman in Tokyo.

3. Is the course of further debriefing in connection with his Polygrarh

Test, HAHN

claimed that George PERIS or PARIS was the individual who had

introduced HAHN to a club in Tokyo lecatei off the Ginza, the name of which

- club translated into English is “Tomorrow is Too Late". At this club HAHN

- met a Japanese hostess by the name ef Noriko AWAJI, whose real name was
later established to be Noriko MATSGZAKAYA, whem he subsequeniiy dated.
There ie no further information currently available on thie hostess. In the
interim, HAHN has obtained a divorce from his wife, who had been a witting
participant in his agent activities for the Soviets, and is known currently to be
living in a common-law relationship with a Japanese yirl who may be identical
with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA. As indicated above, HAHN and hie current
mistress are currently ia Sapporo, Hexkaido.

4. The ex-wife of Valentin HAHN, whose fall name is not known te the
writer, and the two HAHN gone, are currently being sponsored for resettle.
ment by the Agency in the United States, where all three are scheduled to
receive their U.S. citsenship under CLA sponeorsbip.

$. With reference to the “Tomorrow is|Too Late” Club, HAHN stated

that a number of CIA Staff Employees of

  

frequented this establishment and have dat Japanese buatesses employed

SRE

 

 
 

 

104-10176-10020

 

 

scbnel
9 Septernber. 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI/Division D

SUBJECT: ZBRGRACE - Tokyo Aspect;
George PERIS aka George PERISTEROPOULOS aka
George PARIS, Identifiad Contact of Valentin HAHN
aka Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN aka Won-shin HAN,
Self Confeesed Soviet Agent

1. Fellowing information waa made available to the writer by

ing only, and the writer was not permitted to review the HAHN file itself.

. Following dstaile are therefore based entirely on notee taken during the

meoting which took place in CARRICO's office on 6 September.

2. Walentin HAHN, who was born as Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN on
22 April. 1908, Slavyanka, Russia, and who is a Russian of Korean origin,
admitted ia the course of a Polygraph examination administered on an
wnepeciiied daic, that be had acted as an agent ia Sshail of tha Soviets. HAND
has been in the employ of CIA since approximately 1952, originally in Seoul,
Korea, tater in Tokyo, Japan, subsequéntly being transferred to Okinawa.
He was terminated on unspecified date ae a contract agent of the SR Division,
aed currently ie or has been-resetiied in Hokkaido, where he has been given a
job as « translator with the FBIS listening post at Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.
During the debriefing which accompanied his Polygraph testing, HAHN advieed
that during his service in Tokyo, Japan, his closest associates had been the
following imdividuale in the order listed:

4

a. Arseniy YANKOVSKY and wife.

b. ~ CIA Stalf Employee of| ] who
2 been terminated on unknowns date. He wae identified as a

. Japanese Intelligence agent.

e. John Mc COY and wife - Me COY was or still is an employee of
SR Division, atationed tn Japan. .

 

“yo

 
 

 

 

there, Date of HAHN's introduction to the Club and to Kariko MATSUZAKAYA
by George PARIS aka George PERIS was ectimated by Mr. Sayle to have been
somewhere between 1954 and 1957. With regard to Valentin HAHN's own
inclinations toward sharing his knowledge of romance with othera, Mr. Sayle
advised that Security Office had established that while emptoyed as a contract
agent of the HAHN bad pimped for CIA Staff personnel in Tokyo.
lo ama

6. As attachment herewith, the writer appends edditional background
data on the professional intelligence activities and contacts of Valentin HAHN
and family as noted during the oral briefing oy Sayie.

 

 

 

7. Om basis of the above, it can be safely assumed that the George

PARIS known to HAHN is identical with George PERISTERGPOULOS aka
George PERIS, well-known Tokyo businessman and Honorary Deputy Consal
of the Royal Greek Consulate in Yokohama, Japan, as reported in SCTOKY-63
and SCTOKY-64, [ is noteworthy that PERIS’ contacts throughout nis career,
commencing ¥ “tn fis original reported employment in Tientsin, China, through
hie activities and contacts in Shanghai, China, and later in Tokyo, not exciud-
ing his marriage to Aurelia CZERWINSKA, have been exclusively with

* individuals of Russian or Eastern European background, many of them of
Ruselan Jewish background, who are either highly suspect or have been iden-
tified as long-time agents of Soviet intelligence. PERIS* reported route of
arrival in Tokyo via Harbin, Tientsin and Shanghai, as well as his employ-
ment by Sondovich Brothsrs and.contacts with individuals who tle in with the -
Boris SOLOMONIK complex and Borsol Fur Trading Corporation, smacke
very strongly of the old Comintern Apparat of the 20's and 30's. Also it
parallets the travel patterns of a number of individuals involved in the SOBLE
case, principally the SOBLES themselves who were exfiltrated from the
Soviet Union via Tokyo, Japan, to the U.S.A. and who, most notably of alt,

S wader cover of operating a Bristie Business as is Sondovich Brothers.

 

Biss

8. According to earlier reporting in the ZRGRACE investigation,

. George PERIS ie alleged to have been a contact of William Hamilton MARTIN
fa Tokyo, and to have offered MARTIN some type of job or businesa partner-
ship deal in connection with the rug business.

9. Mr. Carrico informally indicated that he personally suspects that
MARTIN's introduction to the fine art of masochistic torture by an unidenti-
fied Japanese femaie, as reported by Mra. Ardeiie GASDA to FAI agents,
may have been effected at or through his patronage of the “Tomorrow is Teo
Late” Club to which he may weil have been taken or introduced by bis friend
PERIS. Thio possibility, however, is subject to further investigation.

 

ao
10. Aa initial follow-up oi les sod_ los, vatgoing cable
of 7 Sept. 60 requesting further check-out of the Club, etc. was prepared.

Sitti |
3
U2 OMY !

 

pp
 

 

 

 

A second cable ta be sent by Privacy Lank to Seoul, Korea, has also been
drafted, and requests check of PERIS' arrival, activitles and contacts,
departure from Korea subsequent to 28 January 1960, This cable has been
presented separately for your approval and may likely be eudject to revision,
wierefore no copy is attached. It ie further suggested that Cifice of Security
be authorized to pass to NSA Security Officials working on this case the
information on PERIS relayed in above ables, sucs information ta
be properly sterilized of course, and that NSA in turn be requested to check
and obtain from U.S. Navy Personnel Records ful copies in duplicate of the
ouginal reports on the epecific duty stations or assignments, including dates
of service at each, to which MARTIN and MITCHELL were cetailed, also
detailed leave recorde, travel records, and other pertinent background data
contained in sach files, to cover the entire period of their respective service
with the U.S. Navy. It is also suggested that NSA officials be requested to
obtain similar detailed original reporte in duplicate from the Denartment of.
tho Army te esses cue peri0a Of MAK ILN'S civilian employment in Japan,
with special emphasise on any reports of MARTIN's extra-curricular activities,
contacts, club memberships, identified personal contacts with persons sot
employed in his own office, ieave travel, etc., which may be reflected in
official records. One copy of all such reports are requested for thie Agency,
to permit further checking of known of newly identified contacts he may have
had in Japan.

 

ANITA POTOCKI

i Attachment: 2s stated
FI{D/AP:mem

Distribution: 5
Orig & 1 - ZRGRACE File Y
1 - MARTIN 201 file
1 - PERIS file
- 1 + chrono

4
i
i
|
i
\
|
i

 
