2/h/

nO SECRET

him as a thoroughly reliable and trustworthy person. My old
contact explained that he and Tony were deeply involved in anti-
Castro activities and he wanted Tony to have contact with a
reliable U.S. official. I told the interviewer that I reported
this meeting to the COS who said that Tony already had one contact
and did not need another. Mr. Di Genova asked me who was Tony's
contact and I replied that while I co ate I was not
absolutely certain and suggested tnetf | the COS at that

on

time, would probably be the best pers 0 provide a definitive and

knowledgable answer. He asked me why Tony would seek another contact

if he already had one - didn't Tony trust his first contact? I
replied that from personal observation it seemed that many Cubans
at that time were: anxious to have more than one point of access
and contact - that it was sort of like having enough insurance to
cover all contingencies. Mr. Di Genova said he understood. He
asked me if I had ever seen Tony again. I said that I vaguely
recalled that I met him once in Miami but was not absolutely

certain - that I just did not remember. (I think it was-Tony that

I talked with to get his okay to use a boat belonging to one of

his "people." The ship's captain was in contact with a PM'er in
the Miami Station but would not go out on a mission-for this Agency
without the approval of his “padrino™ who as I recall was Tony.

I was asked by the Station to meet the “padrino" and explain the
need for the boat. As a result of this meeting the "padrino"
approved the use of this boat for a special mission in April 1961.)

14. On completion of this series of questionsMr. Di Genova
said he thought that he had covered all thé essential points and
did not believe there would be any need to calli me back. He
thanked me for my cooperation and again expressed appreciation for
the blow-ups of the DIRECTOR cable.

a

 

Chief, LA/NARC

SECRET
. OCUNE|

but did not believe this situation went that far. Mr. Di Genova
said that he was not questioning the actiens of the people in the
field who were just doing their job but his purpose was to discover,
if possible, just how such instructions originated ~ who discussed
them —- who agreed that such.action was necessary - and how such
instructions came to be authorized.

ll. Mr. Di Genova asked me if I had ever been involved in this
type activity before. He wanted to know if I had ever heard it
discussed before. He wanted to know what I thought of the coordi-
nation process at Headquarters and my interpretation of how the
cable had been written. At this juncture I replied that. I was
unaware of the who or whys of the coordination on this cable since
I was in the field and could only presume that appropriate
coordination had been accomplished prior to the dispatch of the
cable. I éxplained that I had never seen the file copies of the
DIRECTOR cables until January 1975 when I obtained copies to attach
to the memorandum.

12. Mr. Di Genova asked me if I was involved in any arms or
materiel drops in Cuba. I replied in the affirmative and he asked
me for the circumstances. I explained that I had temporily replaced
another case officer and at Mr. Di Genova's request identified the
case officer I replaced by true name (Mr. David Morales). He did
not ask any detailed questions on the two drops but wanted to know
if any telescopic rifles were in the drop loads. I told him I did
not know. He asked me if I knew of anyone at the Station at that
time involved in receiving telescopic rifles - again I answered no.

13. Mr. Di Genova said that he had been given a list of names
by other members of the staff and wanted to know if I knew any of
these people: Howard Hunt; Robert Maheu; Rosselli; Santos Trafficante
Tony Varona; Jim O'Connelk and, William Harvey. I replied that
I recognized most of the names because of current media publicity.
I said Trafficante's name was familiar since he was still reportedly

involved in narcotics but that this knowledge was based on my
_present job and that his name was unknown to me when I was in

Havana. The interviewer questioned me closely whether I knew or
dealt with any gamblers or people of this ilk while in Havana.

‘I said no. He asked if I knew if any other Station officers had

this type of contact. I said I did not know. I replied in the
affirmative to his question on Tony Varona and said that Varona

had once come to my residence in Havana in company with three other
people. He asked me the purpose of that meeting and I told him

that an old contact (I did not identify the old contact and I was

not asked to identify him) had brought Tony to my home and introduced

SECRET.

—5—
pj

#
C7 =

SECRET

his cousin and explained that family relationships and such
personal recommendations were very important to Cubans as
individuals. I provided a brief explanation of what were the

.subject's motives in establishing this relationship. I told

the interviewer that the Cuban pilot was anxious to explain

to an official of the U.S. Government why he still was in Cuba
and why he appeared to be pro-Castro. In essence, the subject
offered to cooperate and provide intelligence in exchange for
assurance that the U.S. Government would not tag him as a
pro-Castro Cubanand thus prejudice his chances to enter the
U.S. At that time the Cuban pilot's wife, 2 children and his
elderly parents, were still living in Havana. The interviewer
asked me if in the initial and subsequent development period
whether or not the subject of assassination had been brought

up either by the subject or the writer. I told the interviewer
that at no time had this matter been discussed with the subject

._prior to the events described.in my memorandun. -

7. The interviewer spent some time in establishing the
time sequence of the cables pertinent to this investigation.
He reviewed with the writer the time of receipt in Havana of
the first cable (DIRECTOR 40923) and the follow up cable calling
off the operation (DIRECTOR 40965). He commented that the
first cablé appeared to be written, authenticated and released
by one person ~ Mr. Eduard H. Hinkle. I agreed with his
conclusion based on what appeared on the cables in front of us.
He asked me if I had ever made any follow up queries on the
circumstances and events which transpired that day. He asked
specifically if J.C. King had ever discussed the cable with me

 

after I returned to Headquarters. I to asked —

if J. C. King discussed this cable with then

COS Havana. I told the interviewer. that I was not knowledgeable
on this matter. He asked me i subsequently discussed
the cable with me - again I answereé at after the receipt of

the second cable that was the last conversation we had on the
subject matter. : :

8. The interviewer asked me what were my personal feelings -
what were my reactions when I received the first cable. (Prior
to this the interviewer had established that the cable would
have come to the attention of the COS first and that he subsequently —
called me in to his office to instruct me to establish emergency
contact with the Cuban pilot for the purposes of carrying out
the instructions in DIRECTOR 409237.) I replied to the inter-
viewer's question by saying that as best as I could remember,
I was surprised and realized that the instructions from Headquarters
were extremely sensitive and a departure from the conventional

CFCRET
. Uh

4

SECRET -

orientation and direction of our objectives. I said that at the
time the instructions were received that it was my personal
opinion that the Cuban pilot could not possibly accomplish such an
objective given the circumstances, other people involved etc.

The interviewer responded that in.other words it appeared to you
to be a pejorative impossibility. I told the interviewer, that

in discussing the subject matter with the Cuban pilot that to

the best of my recollection I had avoided using such words as
murder, killing or assassination and merely referred to the matter
of neutralizing Raul Castro and his influence by preventing his
return to Cuba. .

; 9. During the interview Mr. Di Genova asked me if anyone
else in the Station would have any information of this subject
matter. The interviewer volunteered the information that he had

. th Mr. Arthur Avignon last week and expected to interview
o either in San Diego or here in Washington before he
ompleté

his investigation. He said he also planned to contact
and interview Mr. Ed Hinkle. Mr. Di Genova told me that
Mr. Avignon could not remember the specifics concerning the Cuban
pilot but that he had recalled that one of the Station case officers
was handling a Cuban pilot and that the pilot had provided good
hard intelligence. He said that Mr. Avignon thought I was the
officer handling the Cuban pilot but was not absolutely certain.

10. The interviewer specifically asked me if I had ever been
involved in any previous plans or discussions concerning assassina-
tion. -E told him no. He questioned me more than once on what
prompted me to write the memo to the Inspector General and asked
if I had written in response to a general request made by Mr. Colby.
I told him that I had written the memo in response to that request.
Later he rephrased the same question about why I had. written the
memorandum. {I explained that the event appeared to me to fall
within the category that Mr. Colby was interested in learning
about and I felt obliged to respond since I ‘had no way of knowing
whether or not this event itself was already a matter of record
or if by chance it had been overlooked and not evaluated. I said
that I would have been remiss if I had not written the memo since
I felt that top management should be knowledgeable of all possible
areas of embarrassment. At another time in rephrasing the same
question the interviewer commented that the event must have made

.a significant impression on me to remember it. -I acknowledged

that the one cable did surprise me and was far from routine. He
asked me if I knew. of any precedent for this or if the subject.
matter had ever been discussed with me before. He asked if the
Cuban pilot had ever discussed the possibility of assassination
before or after - and I replied no to all these questions. At
one point in discussing the significance of this cable I said
that I was not unaware of the judgements at the Nurenburg Trials

SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR :

oe

ATTENTION

SUBJECT “oo

SECRET

8 August 1975

Chief, Review Board
Mr. Seymour R. Bolten

Interview with a Staff Member of the
Senate Select Committee

Attached herewith is a Memorandum of Conversation cover-

ing my meeting with Mr. Joseph E. Di Genova, Staff Investigator

on Senator Church's Senate Select Committee of 4 August 1975.

dp)

_ ae

 

 

£, LA/NA

CECRET £2 IMPppDET cL BY 006098
 

und

$04-10310-10060)

 

 

. 3
WRUA GAME [ | _
TITLE LA Division 0
oo William R. Marshall
ALTAS

DATE OF APPEARANCE 4 August 1975

LOCATION OF APPEL

AUDTESCE

GENERAL SUAJECT_

ARANCE On the Hill

 

oo GBBA(RASERO}

\

4. AUG O75

 

SSC Staffer (Mr—Robere=Ketty) -bseph li Genova
 

SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT : Interview with Mr. Joseph E. Di Genova, Staff
Investigator for the Senate Select Committee

1. This meeting took place on 4 August 1975 and lasted
from 1355 hours to 1515. The writer initially met with
Mr. Robert Kelly in the Dirksen Senate Building and was then
introduced to Mr. Di Genova. Mr. Kelly signed a document
receipt in duplicate for an enlarged copy of DIRECTOR 40923
dated 21 July 1975. Subsequently, these receipts were turned
over to Mr. William Sturbitts, LA/FOI.

2. Mr. Di Genova asked the writer to accompany him to
an unoccupied. office in the building directly opposite the
Dirksen Senate Building. Mr. Di Genova said that this room -
610 - was clean and had been used in the past for interviews
in connection with Senator Church's investigation. Mr. Di Genova
explained that I would not be testifying under oath and that
the use of an alias would not be necessary. He said the
purpose of this interview was to review the writer's memorandum
of 17 January 1975 to the Inspector General concerning question-
able activities. He said he would ask questions, take notes
etc. and that after he had written up his notes we would have
the writer review them for accuracy. Mr. Di Genova explained
that in spite of what some people thought, the committee/staff
was trying to put the events being investigated into proper
perspective vis a vis the circumstances, the attitudes and
political sensitivities of that period. Mr. Di Genova added
that he was proud of the record that the SSC had turned in
so.far - no leaks - the only leaks he knew of had come from -

. the witnesses themselves.

3. After the introductions etc. were completed,

Mr. Di Genova asked the writer to provide a short resume of
his employment history with this Agency including his overseas
assignments. He also requested that I provide him with my
home address and my office telephone number. I complied but
suggested that it would be more appropriate if he directed

any further requests through Mr. Bolten's office. He agreed
and said his only reason for requesting the address and phone
number was if an emergency occured or if he couldn't reach
SECRET

Mr. Bolten. I advised Mr. Di Genova that-I was under cover
in the Washington area and that neither my relatives nor my
neighbors were witting of my place of employment. He said he
understood. (He did not ask me any questions about my cover,)

4. Mr. Di Genova asked me to comment on the situation as
it was in Cuba when I was on assignment there (January 1960 to
January 1961). He wanted to know how the people felt, what
were some of the attitudes concerning Castro, what about the
revolution etc. . I briefly outlined the various attitudes and
positions taken by people at that time which ranged all the way
from pro to anti Castro. I said that many people initially
supported the revolution and believed that Castro was doing
the right thing in getting rid of the corruption which existed
at that time. These people easily rationalized when neighbors
and friends were. arrested or had their businesses intervened.
However, when the revolution directly affected them they felt
that their own honesty had been betrayed. At this point these
people began thinking that friends and neighbors had been
unjustly accused and punished and were not guilty of the charges
against them. The concept that this was a Communist Revolution
and not just another Latin Revolution began to dawn on these
people who in most part were businessmen, professionals and
the like. This type individual quickly turned their efforts to

either fleeing Cuba or working in opposition to Castro. I said

that it was unusually easy to meet and develop Cubans during
this period since many Cubans were anxious to help the U.S.

in anyway possible to achieve freedom for themselves and Cuba.
I described these times as troubled and emotional.

5. At this point Mr. Di Genova said he thought the best
way to proceed was to review the memorandum I had written to
the Inspector General and review the cables referenced in that
memorandum. He opened the classified envelope I had brought
with me and removed the blown up copies of DIRECTOR 40923 -
he was particularly pleased that the writings and signatures
appearing at top and bottom.of the cable were legible in the
blow-ups. During the initial review of my memorandum he
turned to the attached cables and asked specifically what |
information was contained in HAVA-5381 (IN 27213) and HAVA-5390
(IN 27260). I explained that the first one provided information
to Headquarters that the Cuban pilot I was in contact with was
expecting to pilot a Charter Flight to Prague to pick up Raul
Castro and requested requirements etc. The second cable advised
Headquarters that the flight wag scheduled to leave on 21 July.

6. Mr. Di Genova asked me to describe how I met the Cuban

pilot and the type of relationship. I confined myself to
briefly recounting that I had been introduced to the pilot by

SECRET
