 

a SECRET

6. The General Counsel is of the opinion that this case comes
within the purview of Section 7 of the CLA Act of 1949, as amended,
and the intent of Congress, and has so indicated by affixing his sig-
nature to this memorandum.

7. The Deputy Director for Plans concurs in the recommenda-
tion of the Chief, Western Hemisphere Division and has so indicated
by affixing his signature to this memorandum.

8. In compliance with Part Il, Paragraph 6(a)7 and 8 of Section
50-1 of the Headquarters Regulation, the Western Hemisphere Division
will have primary responsibility for subject.

9. There has been prepared for your signature the attached let-
ter to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. (See Tab

B)
Howana £ Mebane
Director of curity
CONCURRENCE:

sel Date

j Oey 3b
¢ 2 fll ral Co

12? OASG

A. tee Director for Plans Date

—« if az

SEener
 

10d-4 0464-10255

“~

oak,

a SECRET

SY 44

Ir

100CT 8 oe “LEC

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT : Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahere

1. This memorandum suggests action by the Director of
Central Intelligence. Such action is contained in Paragraph 9.

2. The Chief, Western Hemisphere Division has recommend-
ed that subject be granted permanent residence in the United States
under the terms of Section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act
of 1949, as amended. (See Tab A)

3. The Chief, Western Hemisphere Division states that sub-
ject has served this Agency since his defection in April 1964, in
providing voluminous, accurate and valuable information on the
organization of the Cuban Intelligence Services, their operations,
staff members and agents. He has been, is being and will continue
to be used to effect recruitment and defection of members of the Cuban
Intelligence and Services. Through resettlement in the
United States he will continue to be of considerable value to this Agency
in the future. :

4. The Alien Affairs Officer advises the subject cannot enter the
United States through normal immigration procedures because of his
service in the General Directorate of Intelligence, the Cuban external
intelligence service, so that subject could not obtain permanent resi-
dence in the United States at this time except under the terms of Sec-
tion 7.

5. Investigations abroad and within the United States, including
a favorable polygraph examination, and the successful operational mis-
sions performed by the subject have established his bona fides. There
is no information which would preclude favorable action in the recom-
mendation for Section 7 action.

GROUP 4

ne Exclitet trem
’ erating
SEC RET declassilcatca

 

 
