14-00000

(3)

(4)

«S)
(6)
(7)
(8)

‘ : - ee . (8-311, 00115-64

Dominican Republic, fusded by Roberto Lazaro
SANTIESTEBAN Casanova. pseudonym “Rafael," who was
formerly at the United Nations in New York and was
arrested for attempting sabotage.

Guatemala, headed by Norberto HERNANDEZ. pseudonym

"Noel," assisted by ai, apprentice. (fnu) PENA, pseudonym
“Lorenzo.” As noted above. the Guatemalan operations

are considered among the most successful in Central
America. :
Haiti, headed by Andres ARNONA’ Ramos, pseudonym “Ernesto,
formerly commercial attaché in Mexico but not likely to
receive another field assignment because of problems
during his service theye,

Honduras, headed by Felix SUAREZ, pseudonym "Santiesteban."
Nicaragua.

Panama, headed by Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym “Fermin.”
El Salvador.

South America Section (Secciny Sur) has no regular chief, but
the DGI deputy, CHAIN, direrts-i¢s activities. It deals with
guerrilla activities in South American countries, There are
desks for:

qa)
(2)

(3)

(4)
(5)
(6)

(7)

Argentina, headed by Oreste VALERA.

British Guiana. headed by (inu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil,"
assisted by two apprent ives, pseudonyms “Jorge™ and
“Rudy .'

Colombia, headed by Raut VIERA Linares, pseudonym "Gomez,"
formerly stationed in Bwtivaa, from which he returned

at the end of 1963, but unlikely to receive another for-
eign assignment becausu of difficulties in the field,

Ecuador, headed by PSCulonym "Julio."
Paraguay, headed by PStudonym “Salvano."

Peru, headed by (fnu) diva, pseudonyn "Jordan," assisted
by an apprentice, PSCUionym “Bernabe.”

Venezuela, headed by Alipedo ALMEIDA Garcia. pseudonym
“Avanja." who was in \oieguela when it broke relations
with Cuba and was lated tueolved in an attempted re-
covery of documents: tru. A plane crash in Peru, which
led to his expulsion fio Chale. His assistants are
Bentto (inu). pseudony. “Saul. and pseudunym "Gary":
His secretary ts pseudvuga “Mircia.” The DGI considers
tts Venezuelan opera tious the most successful in South
Amer toa,

SEChry
NO FORN byssey

 
 

21.

22.

 

23.

OU CUh® wien

-~ 10 - . * CS-311/00115-64

Operational Support Departments.

 

The operational support -departments of the DGI are Technical
Operational Suppert (M1). Illegal Centers (MO). Special Schools
(EE). and Information Services (SI). They handle-such functions
2S spotting prospective agents, providing operational information,
training both intelligence agents and guerrillas, providing clan-
destine communications between headquarters and agents in the
field, procuring operational funds and supplies, etc.

The Department of Illegal Centers (Departamento Centros Tlegales -
. he department is not, aS its name implies, concerned with
operation of illegal field stations, but is an information col-
lection and agent candidate spotting department. It has three
major responsibilities: collection of information from foreigners
visiting Cuba; assessment of visiting foreigners for candidates
for intelligence agents; and screening of letters from abroad
volunteering information, both to extract any useful data and to
assess the writers as possible candidates for intelligence use.
Among visiting foreigners, the MO Department does: not concern it- +
self with diplomats, they are left to the DSE. nor with foreigners
who are established residents of Cuba. who are the responsibility
of the Colonial Bureau (see below). In debriefing foreign visi-
tors, the department often works through ICAP. which makes arrange
ments for many visits-to Cuba: in many instances, the visitors
supply information unwittingly and are never aware that they are
in contact with Cuban intelligence. The MO Department does not
itself recruit agents; it only watches for, screens, and evaluates
foreign contacts as agent candidates. If the persons it selects
are members of a Communist Party or leftist organization, they
are referred to the LN Department: if they are not members of
Such groups, they are referred to the [llegai Department; one
of those two units does the actual reeruiting.

 

The Department of Special Schools (Departamento Escuelas
Especiales - : his department is responsible for training
in guerrilla warfare and related subjects. It is headed by Luis
PIREZ, pseudonym “Bruno Diaz," who is a DGI officer but also a
captain in the Cuban Army. He has a deputy. pseudonym
"Aristides": an office assistant, pseudonym “Armando”; and a
courier, pseudonym "Garcia." The department staff, numbering
more than 50. is made up entirely of Cuban Army personnel on
indefinite assignment to the DGI; they are directed by the DGI
but continue to be paid by the Army, which also provides all sup-
port for the department. The main office of the EE Department,
which is mainly administrative, is a residence at 178th Street
and and 3Ist Avenue, telephones 21-8426 and 21~8262,° in the
Barandilla section of the Marianao suburb of Habana. Training
is conducted at permanent school sites in Habana .(none outside),
including guerrilla warfare schools at 310 Silst Avenue. in the
Country Club district. and three in the Marianao suburb: one

in the western part of the Arroyo Arenas section, one in the
western part of the San Agustin section. and one in the area
bounded by 214th and 226th Streets and 7th and 15th Avenues in
the Biltmore section. In addition there are technical training
schools (Escuclas Entrenaniento Tecnico) on East Street between

 

 

 

Habana, where Venezuelans and Salvadorans have been trained.
and on 26th Street between Ist and 3rd Avenues in the Miramar

SECRET
. NO FORN DISSE

 

 
 

20.

Cuba is not concerned with revolu
African courtries. 1t concenirates

RO FURN GE TSSEM

-s- CS-321/00115-64

 

in European. Asian, or
ly on Latin American

 
 

ate

governnents, except those that maintain diplomatic relations
with Cuba... Although the department has no African interests,
Zanzibaris were trained in Cuba: the arrangements were handled
outside the DGI by Fidel CASTRO himself. with the participation
of Manucl PINEIRO, In addition to its guerrilla work, the
department. without the knowledge of the Communist Parties or
groups with which it cooperates. recruits and arranges training
of agents to collect information in the target Tener ee ee Can-
didates for such intelligence agents are guerrilla warfar
trainees. or persons proposed by the operational support depart-
ments (NO Department and the BC Section of the SI Department --

see below).

The LN Department’ is divided into three sections. one support.
and administrative, the other two geographical with country

desks.

Central Processing Section (Tramites}, headed by Felix
Rafael (lnu), pseudonym “Alberto,” is the administrative
oifice for the LN Department and the only office in the DGI
handling travel arrangements. It plans and arranges travel
for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents. and
trainees, furnishes operational funds for travel, and makes
the actual travel reservations and provides plane tickets
for travelers. It also obtains passports in false names for
Cuban staff members, issues Cuban passports in false names

to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechoslovakian Embassy. -

In agent travel. it works closely with the Cuban Institute
of Friendship with Peoples {Instituto Cubano del Amistad con
los Pueblos - ICAP), which atranges Scme aSpects of travet

 

for trainees. The section chief has his office in the LN

Department but works mainly from the DGI headquarters in M
Building; his wife, Elva (lau), pseudonym “Elisa,” is a
typist in the LN Department. The section staff consists of
administration chief Eutogiro PONS, pseudonym “Eloy”; his
assistant, pseudonym “Henry”: an office clerk, Carmen
CARRACEDO, pseudonym "Mercedes": two drivers, Juan PEREZ,
pseudonym “Raul,” and pseudonym "Manuel"; and Felix Rafael's
secretary, pscudunym “Norma.,"and assistant, Draco or Draque
ESCALANTE, pseudonym "Ciro.

Central American Section (Seccion Central) is supervised by
Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, who is head of the Department of
Information Services (SI) and acts as advisor to the entire
LN Department. The section organizes and directs guerrilla
activities in the Central American and Caribbean countries.
Its case officers frequently travel to their operational areas
to direct activities and arrange for funds, arms supplies,
and other support (oO agents? agent meetings are often held
inca third country, especially Wexico. Operations ave handled
on a case basis. each case being a separate project starting
with selection and training of agents and continuing through
guerrilla wartare action in the target area, The section
has the following area desks: .

(1) Costa Rica. Readed by Oscar GARCIA Manzane, pseudenym
"Orlando."

SFCRET
NO FORN DISSEV

 
14-00000

18.

19.

. 7 . ~7- CS$-317-001125-64

 

with him throughout his active tenure, It does not deal with
members of Communist Parties or leftist organizations. nor with
persons in contact with official Cuban personrel abroad, who are
the responsibilities of other departments; the mechanics of com-
munication are also handled clsewhere. Agents are stationed in
all countries where Cuba is intcrested in collectiag information,-
penetrating the government. or conducting subversive operations,
in Europe and Central and South America. The department has no
agents in Asian or African countries, and no agents are known in
the United States. Agents once trained usually remain perma-
nently abroad, If they are in an\ area where there is a legal
field station. they do not normally have any contact with its

members.

 

The Illegal Department .is divided into three main geographical
sections, cach subdivided into country desks, as follows:

a. Section A. Europe, chief unknown; under this section there
are desks for all countries.

b. Section B, Central America, chief Ramon Cesar CJENCA Montote
(no pseudonym), who was formerly stationed in Mexico. His
deputy is pseudonym "Mike." Country desks include Costa
Rica, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico,
Nicaragua. Parama, and El Salvador. Section personnel in-
cluded officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudonym “Alejandro";
Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym “Denis"; Gustavo (inu).. pseudonym
"Lino"; Paulino (Inu), pseudonym "Mauricio"; Rafael GUZMAN,
pseudonym "Rolando"; (fnu) RELOBA, pseudonym "Wilfredo";
apprentices (sracticantes) Miguel Angel (inu), pseudonym
"Miguel"; Omar (Inu), pscudonym “Oscar; Raul GONZALEZ,
pseudonym "“Olexis"; and Francisco (inu), pseudonym “Tino.”
Their desk assigpments were rot known. .

c. Section C, South America, chief unknown. Country desks ia-
clude Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador,
Paraguay. Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and British Guiana. Two
officers in the section were pseudonym "Ulises," formerly
perhaps in Chile, and pseudonym "Juan Carlos," possibly
formerly in Peru. Both were returned +o Cuba for discipli-
nary reasons: they may have been assigned to the desks for
the countri where they had served.)

 

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion
Kacional ~ US). The department has no chief; officers wishing
advice consult Major Guillermo JIMENEZ, pseudonym "Javier," who
is head of tne Central American Section of the department, or,

 

‘in his absence, go directly to Manuel PINEIRO or his deputy,

CHAIN, The department offices occupy two two-story buildings at
6610 and 6612 7th Avenue, between 66th and 70th Streets, in the
Ampliacion de Alwendares section of the Miramar district. of
Habana, Tie department. which is one of the largest in the DGI,
is responsible for promotion and divection of revolutionary ac
tivity. aneluding gucrrilla wartare. It acts mostly in coopera-
tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups, but
conducts sone operations unilaterally without lecal coordination.
Among tts activities are the recruitment, arrangement of travel
to and from Cuba and training in Cuba. and the direction and
suppert ef guerrilla fighters in its target countries. Since

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
74-00000

12.

13.

3 . Py

reddish brewn hair. She is axty and dowdy. wcearine low heels
and a Soviet-style dress - tike a peasant’S.  —

man. name unknown, works on South American opera-
“the TLlegal Department.

ec. A Sovi
tions

 

 

Qperat ional Depa riments.

Of the eight departments making up the headquarters, three are
operational, four are concerned with operational support or
training. and one is administrative, The three operational de-
partments are Legal Centers (Centros Legales - MS). Illegal :
(Liegal). and National Liberation {boeracion Nacional ~ LN);-
the last two were formerly a single department, known as MA
(Intelligence). All three departments handle operations abroad
for the purpose of collecting information on the host country,
promoting Cuban political aims, and conducting subversive ace
tivities. Their operations are distinguished by two factors,
legal connectiors and Communist Party-leftist group Liaison.

The Departaeat of Legal Centers is responsible tor operatioas
conducted through Cuban official missions in countries with which
Cuba has Giplomatic relations and has normally nothing to do with
illegal agenis. The other two departments handle illegal agents,
both an countries with which Cuba has relations and in those with
which she has none, The Illegal Department has no connection
with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups abroad; the
National Liberation Department deals mainly with such parties

and groups; the Deparimént of Legal Centers may work with then

or unilaterally. All three departments are organized in geo-
graphical divisions with area desks for each country within

their respective fields or responsibility; there is thus some
overlapping 1n desk coverage.

   

The a so types of overseas intelligence operations (as
distinc: fron guevrilla warfare operations covered below in
paragraphs 19 and 20): Legal field stations and illegal agents.
The logal field station exists in every country with which Cuba
has diplomatse relations; its personnel are merbers of the local
Cuban diplomatie, consular, or trade mission. Officers are
selected from all parts of the DGL organization; mo distinction
as made, for example, between officers from the LLlegal Depart-
ment and the tional Liberation Department, but each person
assigned oversacds performs whatever duties the local situation
requires. Field station chiefs report directly to PINEIRO, but
administration goes through other channels, as explained be low,
Field stations vary ia sige, depending on local objectives and
the quality ot daplomavic relations. In Soviet Bloc countries,
for example, tield stations are usuakly small. with only one or
two olticers. who have no intelligence collecti1on or similar
responnibilaty but are charged prancipally with aiding travelers
to Cuba and atth liaison with the local intelligence service.

In countries outside the Soviet Bloc. legal facetd stations have
vartous vesponstbibitiess in Latin Amer thear principal ace
tavities are promotion and direetion of subversion and sabotage
and arrangencats for suerrabha warfare. Uo oTne largest field
station is in Wextco, whieh in amportant because 1¢ is a major
transit point for both personne) edo terials, and becatise it
is a contact pernt for any lettist organization of any country
whieh haw representatives tf Mexteo. Matergal fur other batin

 

  

 

 
 
 

 

SECEET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

14.

15.

16.

17.

re -6- CS-31i avils-64

American countries ually pees first to Mexico and-is forwarded
from there.!1) Wexico is also a metting place for operations of-
ficers from Cuba and as from Central and South

Canada similarly serves a meeting place for agents from the
United States. Legal ficld stations do not normaily deal with
illegal agents except in a great emergency.

  

 
        
   

 

  

In all legal field stations. the DGI representative is charged.
with keeping track ot. checking. and reporting on the political
activities of the other members of the mission to which he is
attached. DGI officers also assist with the political classes ,
and lectures held periodically for members of the mission. but fact
this is a task shared by all mission members and is not assigned
to any officer specifically. Physical security, such as techni-
cal examination of Cuban premises fur audio surveillance devices,
is not a DGI responsibility; 1t 1s performed by the DSE.

 

In countries with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations,
DGI activities are handled by agents stationed permanently in ~
the country as illegal agent ras members of.Communist Parties
and leftist groups. Their assignments are sabotage. subversion,
sseLettion and training of guerrilla warfare candidates and other
agents or groups in Latin America primarily. The DGI regards
Guatemala and Venezuela as the countries in which its operations
have been most successful. Such tield operations are run from.
Cuba or from an adjacent country.

 
    

The Department of Legal Centers (Departamento Centros Legales -
WS). The MS department is heaaed by Pedro FARINAS Diaz. pseu-
donym "Otoniel." and has a staff of 15 to 20 persons. Its
offices are not in the M Building compound. but in a building
at the corner of 3lst Avenue and Gtth Street ia the Marianao
suburb of Habana. The department is in charge of the field
stations, known as legal centers. in each country with which
Cuba has diplomatic relations or where she maintains commercial
missions. Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule:
they act as the service group at headquarters for field person-
nel drawn from any part of the DGL. Field station chiefs, as
noted above. report directly to PINEIRO; the MS Department takes
care of all paper work for the field stations, including photo-
graphing incoming and cutgoing documents; maintaining files of
field correspondence: and handling coded radio communications.
Coded radio messages prepared by desk officers are photographed
and sent to the field on microfilm and messages on microfilm
received from the tield are decoded and passed: to the proper
department: MS does not do the decoding itself. The department
dees not have its own radio station. It does not run any agents
abroad; it does. however, assign dead drops and explain their
use to field agents. mostly those of the Illegal Department.

 

 

 

The Illegal Department (Departamento Llegal). The department is
Readed by pseudonym “Lucio.” whe directs operations rather than
dealing directly with agents: his Geputy is Santiago PEREZ, pseu-
denym "Rolo." The stafi of about 20 persons is responsible for
handbing “illegal agents. that 1s. agents of all nationalities
whose activities ana connections with Cuba are secret. The de-
partment recruils the asent: arranges for his training, means

of clandestine communication. and travel to his assigned area;
and thereatter directs. supports, ard maintains communication

 

 

 

SFCRET
NO FORN DISSEW
 

<2

Hdqrs Dissem

WH/COPS
WH/PO/A
WH/PO/B
WH/RO
WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB

“ WH/SA/R

WH/SA/CI
WH/1
WH/2
WH/3
WH/4
WH/5
WH/6
WH/R

CI Staff
CI Liaison
CI/REA
RID/AN

AF/1L ”
AF/2
AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CI

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
EE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/IIS
EE/CL

FE/PMI/I
FE/ JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
FE/VNC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

iJ
Wt bee teat pt fed tom dot CT OL et det pt pee

tw

mR on

Leal soll all ell ool ool ool el eR Oo On)

SECRET

NO FORX D

ISSEM”

- la - CS-311/00115-64

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/T
NE/5/P
NE/6/C&I
NE/R
NE/CI

WE/1
WE/2.
WE/3
WE/4
WE/S
WE/BC
WE/R

1
1
1
1
1
1
7
4
1
1
i
1
1
I
1

Field Dissem

24

 

 

 

Ce ll el ed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
 

104-10183-102741.

ea Ep Ea
et ha : ‘CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETURN TO CIA
‘ This westenat contalas Informatie atiting the National Defense of the United states withia the meaning of tne Bspicoags Lans. aBackground Use Only
18, USC. Gece 793 and 704, tbe wacemusion oF revsiatton Sf which In any manner fo sa unsuthorized person {a prontbited by ae. Do Not Reproduce
S-E-C-R-E-T :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

couNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. CS -311/00115-64

   

Sia mt tl tlh cain EN rm aac

   

cect a cee tee rite temas

 

sussect The Organization of the General DATE DISTR. 8 July 1964

Directorate of Intelligence
(Direccion General de NO. PAGES 17

Inteligencia - DGI)
REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964
INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. June -1964 FIELD REPORT NO. .
E DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT $$ TENTATIVE.

“THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS AR

source: A former Cuban IS’ officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-
gence Service until April 1964:

Headquarters Comment. The following information, as reperted
by source during 2 debriefing, includes a description of the
General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI), a break-down of each of its departments,
the functions of each department, a diagram (Chert A) of the
organization of the DGI, and a map (Chart B) of the DGI com-

pound in Habana.
Introduction.

1. The General Directorate cf Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia ~ DGI) is the Cuban external intelligence agency,
charged with maintaining security, collecting information,
and promoting Cuban Government intelligence policies abroad,
It is part ot the Ministry of Interior (Miniszerjo del Int¢e-
rior), and was established sometime in mid-1961. It is con-
cerned only with operations abroad, The collection cf
intelligence within Cuba, counterintelligence, and security
are the responsibility of the Department of State Security
(Departamento de Seguridad del Estado - DSE), The two agencies
are independent but maintain [iaison and coordination on cer-
tain matters.

 

 

2. The DGE, also known as "MM," or "M Department," is organized
under a director general and his deputy; its components, are
a main headquarters with administrative and personnel offices,

, @ight departments, and the director's office (see organization
chart of page 14).2 It is closely gonnected with Ramiro Valdes
Menendez, the Minister of Interior, and is also of continuing
interest tc Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto "Che" Guevara,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s . 5
4 4
3 S-E-C-R-E-T ast 3
2 NO FOREIGN DISSEM (teagea| 2
1 : pe aces a |
[grate | pia Pr aRay avy tate NSA Lek Loce oT FBI 2]
REPCINCLANT CINCSO # [&NS . . __.
Tote Field distribution indicated by ~ ” I

 

  
 
  
  
    
   
     

 

3" ade
TE ONP CAMNUG-1)
““es-311 oults-64

  

  

    

weiner a Mgt lh ves
1 Ea ROT
rsDrer

?
aug Aa
ra

   
     

 

ora.
 

 

 

‘daismissal, social sccurity, etce.). has about La or

AM PUL AOE

CS-511 00118 -64

4 ‘ . ~3-

gates located near the center of the block on 80th Street. and a

back entrance with steel doors located directly through the
block on 7&th Street. The aain entranee is manned by guards
armed with PPShaA machineguns; the rear entrance is kept Locked
and is used only in emergencies. No pass or identification is

required to enter the grounds.

The headquarters compound (sce diagram on page 15) contaans all
the DGI offices except PINEIRO's home office, the three opera-
tional departnents, and the Special Schools Department, described
below, The main building. called M Building, is situated near
the center of the compound but off the main axis between the
gates. It houses most of the offices in its two stories and also
contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the
city and the Ministry of Interior. There are no large assembly
rooms; conferences are held in small rooms, Within the compound,
separated from M Building by driveways and parking lots, are
several other structures:

a. A two-story building housing the Personnel Department on the ,

first floor and the Inspection Department on the second.

b. Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with
sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage ware-
house, and a clothing-storage warehouse. The guard office
#nd the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 80th Street,

c. A two-story building, in the angle of the grounds formed by
78th Street and 49th Avenuc, housing the Technical Operational
Support Department, Two of its sections, the Photographic
Laboratory and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-
vidual buildings in the compound.

General administrarion of the DGI is handled from the M Building,
where PINELRO's deputy, (fnu) CHAIN,7 pseudonym “Agusto," has
his office, Besides acting as director general when PINEiRO is
away from Cuba. CHAIN is responsible specifically for management
of large expenditures, South American affairs, and the approval
of false passports for travelers. We signs, in pseudonym, all
notices and circulars issued to the directorate. His secretary
has the pseudonym "Georgina." CHAIN's office, through "Vidalina,"
distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments. Incoming and
outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received
at this office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servicio
Central de Cifrados - SCC), which is a communal coding and de~
coding service operated by the DSE, CHAIN's office apparently

also acts as a receiving and distributing center for clandestine

radio traffic but does not itself send or receive radio messages;
the actual transmission is possibly controlled by the Communist

Party.

Directly under the deputy director are two administrative depart-
ments for stait members, Personnel (Departamento de Personal) and
fuspection (icpartamento de Inspeccion), which eccupy a separate
building in the headquarters compound. The Personnel Department,
headed by pseudonym “Pelayo,” which handles all maiters concerning

staff member administration (selection, hiring. pay. promotion,
15 members.

 

 

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM
14-00000

10,

il.

Cc.

 

C5-311/90115-64

' ‘ ~ de

The Inspection Pepartreat, headed by pseudonym “Dario,” which is
responsible for discipline in the directorate and for investiga-
tions of staff personnel, probably before hiring, has 10 to 12
members. Both department chiefs are probably former members of
the DSE, and some of the office staff are also former DSE members.

 

Soviet Advisors.

Attached to the DGI headquarteis is a group of Soviet advisors,
who occupy offices in M Building. Their presence and identities
are kept as secret as possible, even among the officers who work
with them, and they are known only by pseudonyms. They have >
especially close contacts vith Manuel PINEIRO and CHAIN, and
with the Illegal Department, whose officers can consult directly
with thom at any time. Ordinary desk officers in other departe
ments can consult the Soviet advisors only at their offices in

M Building,;.where no special security precautions are observed,
but they do not see much of them except when visiting the
Illegal Department when the advisors are working there. The

Soviets can visit any department whenever they wish.

‘tnformation obtained by DGI agents abroad can be passed to the

Soviet advisors. The five known are the following:

"E1 Frances" (The Frenchman), PINEIRO's personal advisor,-
is apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba. He has

an office in M Building and frequently visits PINEIRO's
houso. He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five
feet seven inches tall and of medium build; bas very grey
hair; has blue eyes with bags under them; and wears at all
times gold-framed glasses with small-to-medium round lenses.
His Spanish is fairly good. He bas a car assigned by the
Cuban government and drives it himself.

b. A Soviet man, name unknown, accompanies "El Frances." He
is five feet eight inches tall, is of medium to thin build,
woighing about 145 pounds, and is clean shaven. An officer
who saw him frequently at DGI headquarters hever heard him

speak,

"Juan," who shares an M Building office with "El Frances"
but works principally in the Illegal Department, is the
consultant on illegal operations, directs the recruitment
and handling of agents, arranges their entry and cover, and
maintains files, At one time he spent about six months in
France; the general. impression is that he was thers as an

illegal resident rather than in the Soviet Fmtassy. He

speaks excellent Spanish with very little accent and ap-

parently has known the language a long time. He too has a

esr assigned by the Cuban government and drives it himself.

Ho was born between 1919 and 1924 and is an active, athletic

man, about Six feet tall and weighing a husky 200 pounds,

with b.ce eyes, He looks young, although his hair is grey,

as is the short~clipped mustacha he wears low on his lip.

d. & Soviet woman,: name unknown, warks in the Pepartment of
Technical Gparatzonal Suprort (Mi). She was born bLotween
1929 and 1934, 1s fiva fact seven or aight inches tall, is
stout but not fat, has blse eyes ani aanost shoulder-length

SECRET
NO YORN DISSEM
