 

. the Agency has not. revealed the actual. location, only.
saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.S, ALL

cropped in an effort to disguise the place where the
photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an
issue when the Warren Commission decided it. belonged ...
in the Report as part of the exhibits since it had been
shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the .-
picture.to appear in the report with the background -
completely blocked out and with the agreement that no
mention would be-made about where it had. been taken.
As far as can be determined, the Agency has never... .-
admitted publicly that the photo was taken in Mexico,
even though there has been a great deal. of speculation)
to that effect by several authors and journalists. As.
a-matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the.
Commission later leaked information to an author regarding
the photo, but erroneously said it had been taken in |
front of. the Cuban Embassy in. Mexico by CIA. . Still,.

     
 

 

 

mention of the photo has therefore been. marked to be |
withheld, because. of sensitive sources and. methods:
involved.

 

: _ @. Gilberto ALVARADO. Ugarte. - “ALVARADO: + a

Nicaraguan citizen, walked in to the v.s. Embassy : in.

Mexico, claiming to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination.

It was learned that ALVARADO was an agent for the Nicaraguan >
Intelligence Service’ (NIS), however his story re the
assassination was separate from his work for the NIS. Arter
lengthy interrogation, including a polygraph, it was

determined that ALVARADO had been fabricating a story claiming
he had seen OSWALD receive money from a Cuban official at

_ the Cuban Embassy in. Mexico. The ALVARADO story appears wo fee

in the Warren Report but it does not reveal his identity. In
order to continue to protect ALVARADO’ and the Nicaraguan’ =.
government from possible embarrassment all mention of
ALVARADO has been marked for non-release,.

2. A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file.
have been forwarded to your office for review by other LA- :
branches and possibly other Divisions. The documents are: marked.
according to which volume they belong in the 201 file (there -
are 57 volumes plus many bulky atachments.)

 

3. During the review, it was necessary several times to
refer to the Warren Report and the exhibits to ascertain ;
exactly what was. already known about the Mexican aspect of the.

.ease. . It is doubtful that the other branches will find this

necessary, but in case they do,

rren Report is held
in the Library.

 
  
  

Jack Mathews
C/LA/Mexico
104-10061-10393

 

REFERENCE =: Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975

' Came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention

   

  

 

31 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: LA/EICO
Mr. William Sturbitts

SUBJECT . ©: Review of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File
: for Freedom of Information Request

1.,- A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248)
has been completed by the Mexican Branch in connection with .
reference Freedom of Information request. Most of the
information contained in the file that pertains to Mexico
came -from sensitive sources and methods, such as photo
surveillance ,/ nd mail intercept —
operations. Although @ mail intercept and photo
surveillance activities have been dicontinued, the fact

that they were in operation in Mexico continues to be
considered sensitive. |

"..2. The Mexican information reviewed covered three’
areas: ; _ . / re

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Mexican female
employed by. the Cuban Embassy iff Mexico. who provided
assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cuban ....
visa. Information: regarding DURAN appears in the Warren
Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency.
The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate
DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the.
GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was
turned over to the Commission by the GOM via State Department.
Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originall

 

 

 

all mention of Agency knowledge or
participation in DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation
has been marked for non-release. .

 

b. Photo of unidentified man taken in front of
the Soviet Embassy In Méxia@. This photo was taken by”
Station Wexi¢o photo Surveillance of the Soviet Embassy
during the month of October 1963. When news of the
arrest of OSWALD as Keanedy's assassin became known,
the Station immediately forwarded copies of the photo
to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo
was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall.

It was later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD

and in fact had been taken after he had departed Mexico.
(OSWALD was in Mexico from 26 September thru.3 October 1963.)
Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown

to OSWALD's wife and mother, with the background partially

 
