74-00000

. S-F-C-R F-T
. . ‘0 FOREIGN “[SSEM

~6- . €S-311/00866-64

made no attempt to make a correction, hoping that no inmigra-
tion inspectors abroad would notice the discrepancy.

1. Headguarters Comment, Presumably Juan Nilo Otero
Rodriguez, Director of the Secretariat of the Forcign
Minister,

* $-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
 

o

Forgery ang Falsificas ron |

16,

-4f- CS-3EP- O080G-64

the various countries are obtained by the [TS through the local

Comrcunast Parties an the countries concerned,

Capabriitics

The IS has no capabilities: for maxiag false passports or in-

ternal decuments trom any country vccause of the difficulty Na

\

of matching the paper vad the technical problems involved in
the engiaving and printiag process, It also lacks capability
for cCrauvicating entries in passports because of the problem

invelvrd in attempting to delete entries without defacing the

documents.

F.lsificatiton and forgery is. limited to filling in valid blank
forcign passports, making photograph and page substitutions in
vona-fide foreign passports, and placing false travel entries
in foreign passports, Travel entries from western Europe and
Latin America can be forged. Source did not know whether the
1S itself made the photograph and page substitutions and for-
gerics. All documents requiring forgeries and substitutions
were turned over to one "Alfonso," in the 18, who took them to

a site unknown to Source, Source theorized that the forgeries
and substitutions may have been done by the Departamento do
Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE), the
counteriatelligence arm of the Cuban Government, which he said
has much nore personne! than the DGI,

Travel Pattern of IS Agents

18,

19,

Prospective agents recruited by the IS in other Latin American
countries and brought to Cuba for training in methods of sabo-
tage and other subversive activities are provided with detached
visas and spurious passports to conceal the fact that they ever

entered Cuba,

In order that no Cuban visa will appear in an agent trainee's
bona-fide passport on his way to Cuba, the Cuban mission in a
Latin American country issues the Cuban visa on a separate
sheet of paper. In 1963 most agent trainees were being brought
into Cuba through Mexico, where the Cuban Embassy issued the
separate visas, Early in 1983 Mexican immigration officers
began using a rubber stamp bearing the notice "Salid para

Cuba" (Departed for Cuba), with the date on it, which they
automatically stamped in all passports of travelers proceeding
to Cuba. To counter this move the IS began replacing, wherever
possible, the pages of the passports bearing this entry with
blank pages from valid passports from the Same countiy as that
of the traveler. Source alsu believes that in 1964 the travel
pattern of a few prospective agents proceeding to Cuba may have
been modified, thus decreasing slightly the number entering

through Mexico.

To conceal the agent's travel when leaving Cuba, he is provided
for the first leg of the jyourney with a Cuban ordinary passport
in alias. The route of travel is from Havana to Prague, Czech
authorities collect these passports upon landing in Prague,
Source docs not ‘tnow what disposition iS made of the Cuban
passports by the Czechs, but he asserts that they Are never

returned to the agent.

S-~E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DESSEM

\

 
 

21,

22,

. . S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DUSSEY

-~ he ; CS-311/00866-64

For the second leg of the journey, carrying the agent from
Prague via western Europe back to his native land, he is pro-
vided in Havana, betore departure, with a passport from another
Latin American country. The non-Cuban passport may be the
agent's bona-fide document which has been returned to him or
it may be another valid Latin American passport pressed into
service for the purpose. If the agent's own passport bears
no.evidence of travel into Cuba it will be used for this pur-
pose, being “brought up to date" with forged western European
entries to explain the gap between the time when he left for
Cuba and when he arrived in Prague, but showing his mode of
travel to be such that he never passed through e:ther Cuba or
Czechoslovakia, © Should the agent's bona-fide passport bear
the Nexican cachet showing that he procceded to Cuba, the ES.
replaces the page bearing such Cntry with a blank page from a
valid passport of. the same country if feasible, If page sub-
Stitution is not po3sibic, either because no other passport
from the same country is available or because substitution
proves too difficult, the 1S will provide the agent with
another passport, from his own country 1f availabie, or from
another Latin American country. The substitute passport may
be a filled-in original, in which case a photograph substitu-
tion will be made, and the agent will travel under the identity

of the original bearer,

In other cases, where valid blank passports are used, the agent
may even trayel under his true identity after "surfacing" on
the second leg of the journey, in western Europe, provided the
passport used is from his own country. In such a case informa-
tion from his bona-fide passport will be copied directly in

the blank passport. If the passport is from a country differing
from that of the agent, his identity will be changed. As in
the case of travel under the agent's hona~tide passport, in

the case of Spurious non-Cuban passports, false travel entries
are made to account for the agent's time spent in Cuba, placing
him in western Europe, but not in Cuba nor Czechoslovakia,

during that period,

Quality and Availability of Spurious Documentation

23.

24,

Providing documentation for agont trainees is the responsibility
of the IS country desk officer handling trainees from the par-
ticular country. The country desk officers receive and main-
tain custody of passports coming from the Communist Parties in
their areas of jurisdiction, Although the agent's training in
Cuba may take several weeks, or even a few months, it often
takes a year or more for the country desk officer to be able
to provide his trainees with the proper documentation, Source
commented that invariably a country desk cificer will be skort
one Spurious passport in his "collection" of passports for a -
group of about six trainees. Where possible the officer will
“borrow” a passport trom his colleague from another country
desk, . we

. . > *

On at least one occasion forged travel entries made in an

agent's passport were found to have a chronological error

Shortly before the agent's. departure from Cuba. The error
consisted of a false exit cachet for. a given port of entry
bearing a date preceding that furnished on the talse entr
cachet for the same port of entry, a: physical impossibility
in true life. Despite the discovery of this ecror the IS

 

“ S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

 
74-0000

 

ee ; S-E-C-R-E-T
. . NO FORDIGN DISSEN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- la - - CS-311/00366-64
ee,
Rdgrs Dissem NE/AS/L&S 1
NE/AA; AP 1
WH COPS i NE/AA/E 1
WR POA: “2 NE/AA/T 1
WR-PO/B i NE/3,/'P 1
\ WA ‘RO 1 _.NE/6/C&IT 1
\ WH/? - 0d NE/Tatel 2
\ WR/2 1 NE/CT 4
WH’ 1 :
WH/4 1 WE/L 1
WH/S 1 WE/2 1 WH/SA/WAVE 5 8)
; ¥H/6 i WE/3 ,
\ WHR | 1 WE/4 1
. WE/S 1 |
‘ WH /SA/EOB 5 WE ‘BC i
WH, SA “MOB. 5 vESR i
: WHSa/R 4 .
WH. ’SA/Int i :
WH, SA/CL 30 Field Dissen
“WH, SA/SO/NS 1
WH/MEXI 1
o CI Staff 5 WH/MNTY 1 i
CI Liaison i WH/MRID
CI/RBEA 3
RID/AN i |
AaF/L 1
AF/2 1
AF/3 i Linison Dissem
AF/4 1
AF/R 3 I
AF/CI 1 I
EE/X 1 L 1
EE/SA 10
EE/BR 1
EE/YA 1
EESa 1
EE/P 1 9
EE/C 1
EESIIS 1
FECPNI/I 1
FE JKO/JO 1 °
FE, INO/K 1
FESVWNC/VN 1
FE/R- 4
FE/CI 4
TSD 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

qPV
[0g 10486-10318

 

e

   

 

 

eee CHa yy AS CY Os . we
FRR MOR! enables tte se mata te. eee tate + ade ail
‘This moterial ec
Wy UB, Gece,

= coma eee nee agen, ndiine doa a

sgher fe a Oe osiz(a 2 Ge wie

 

CENTRAL INT 2ENCE AGinc 7

formation Affervog the Mathomal Derise of 116 United Bias wt 4 (bo meaning

an TOA tbe tramem.ccior ay puralatson aq whhu Im any mannet toe uneuthoraed sere we seuhitited &

S-8-C-R-E-T
NO POREIGN DiSSEM

 

REPORT NO. CS -311/00866-64
22 July 1964

 

 

COUNTAY Cuba \
SUBJECT Report on Cuban Docunentation and DATE DISTR

Procedures of the Generis, Directorate

‘of Inteliagence (Direcesa. Genera) NO. PAGES | 8

de Intel:cencia = BGI)

7 — REFERENCES CS-311,/00115-84
. CS-311/09345-64

DATE OF To March 1964 CS-311,’. 9716-64

INFO,

“PLACE &

DATE ACQ. CY FIELD REPORT NO.

THs 13 UNEVALUATED INPOm. nL SOURCE ORADINGS ARE OLFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE

source A former Cuban [3 orficer who served with the Cuban Intelli-
geace Service until April 1964.

. : -

. Headquarters Comment. The following information, as reported

by Source during a debricfing, revosls the misuse of official

documentation and procedures by the General Directorate of

Intelligence. (Direccton General do Inteligencia - DGI).

Use of Altered and Fraudulent Documents by Cuban Intelligence

1. Cubans and other Latin American nationals operating for the General

 

t ate eee few 11ee
we

 

Backg un TD oR
Foun se
Do Net Reproduce”

‘
'
i
'
{
|

H

Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia <
DGI) of the Cuban Ministry of Interfor are issued Cuban passports

in alias by tho Cuban Foreign Ministry. These passports are.
-considered legal in all respects by Cuban authorities, Cuban
agents also use valid passports of a number of Latin American

countries in which false entries are provided by Cuban intelligence |

authorities, The documents used by non-Cubans operating under

IS auspices are inteaded to hide all traces of their travel into

and out of Cuba, :

Cuban Diplomatic Passports

2, Cuban diplomatic passports are issued in alias to IS staff per-

Sonnel, consisting exclusively of Cuban nationals, They aro
never issued to aliens operating as agents of IS, There are

over 300 staff employees, according to Source, all of whom are

eligible to receive Cuban diplomatic passports in alias. A

little over 100 staff employees are estimated by Source to have

been documented in this way.

5

' ; 4
$-E-C-R-E-T . CoE 3.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM _ fetter 2:

me i

 

 

 

STATE BIA | arur Mav? [esa Tox Toc FBI
REPCINCLANT CINCSO #  T&NS # T&NS
(Note: Plaid Eantirvton indore’ by ‘byt ~

CAS TOON

 
  

NP (AMMUG-1)

 

 

wp

7iS____12" Gor AF/08 “eats SY, FBL, [DIA - 2 ee S/4a/ty
ime 37

  

vere TE 3, CI 21, RID/AN 1, TSD 1, WH/SA 46 (5S te
RELL 9

     
 

  

var a’ (8 Ez 8 (10) ae

 

 

 
   
  
     

yf
74-00000

 

-2- CS-311/60866-64

° &. Issuance of diplomatic passports in alias is an automatic ;
= : process whenever an IS staff employee travels on assignmont :
oy a abroad, The employee involved provides thea following itoms,
. - . which he sglects personally, to one "Felix Rafael." in the
DGI, who joreves the material to the Foreign Ministry:

a, Altas, | .
bb. Dipfonatic title, ’
c. One/photograph.. .

; i

4. ‘The dipiomatic title chosen by the staff employee is‘ double- i .

checkgd by the Foreign Ministry to avoid conflicts or dis- . i”
crepahcies with real assignments, For instance, Source chose !

itle of “Cofsular-Inspector" (Inspector Consular) for his og
diplomatic passport and the Forcign Ministry determined that '

t A same ares about that time. The Foreign Ministry official FE
arged with issuing alias diplomatic passports for IS porson-
él is one Otéro, Chief of the Diplomatic Passport Section.
tero does the work on short order, even completing a job on
the Same date the requést is received, if necessary.

 

     
  
 

LWT HETIL ped NE Re ene tee yen e : -
Pad
2
e

| Frequent 1y IS personnel using diplomatic passports travel ia
Small groups, For instance, Source traveled to Mexico in
arly 19G4 with a group of Six or seven staff employees, all

‘ ¢ ding. diplomatic passports.

/ 6. Thore arp no distinguishing features, a@ither in the passport
serial nhmber, the diplomatic title, or any other entry in a .
Sc passport issued in- ‘alias to distinguish it from a

diplomatic
bona- fide document.
Cuban ordindr Passports . oa

7. Cuban ordinary passports are issued in-alias to IS agents, in-
eluding Cubans and nationals of other Latin American countries,

by the Cuban Foreign Ministry in much the same way as in the

case] of diplomatic passports. In addition to the ‘bearer's :

photdgraph, Rn agent prevides cover information on himself 2f

for se in the passport which conforms as closely as possible. 4

to hds real life, As an example, Source cited his own case, ‘

sayigg that he furnished a cover story containing his true

aera of birth, but listing him as. single, even though he is

maryied, Typical occupations shown on ordinary passports

used by IS agents are “student" (estudiante) and "laborer"

(obrero).
COPE ro,

t
‘ 8. The only distinguishing feature for differentiating between
. a fuban ordinary passport issued in ‘alias to an IS agent and

a bona-fide document is a special code for the serial number.

Solrce thinks that alias passports for IS agents bear fives
digit serial numbers while bona-fide passports bear six- ,

digit serial numbers. Source's theory was based on the fact :
that his ordinary passport issued in alias bore a five-digit :
number while the bona-fide passport issued to his wife bore ~_
a'six-digit number. This premise is in direct contradiction

with a Study of the numbering system found to be in use on

Cuban ordinary passports. A pattern in numbering is faund,

with occasional discrepancies, in which a new set of acces-

sion numbers is vsed each year, Thus, serial numbers will

bo lower on passports issued at the beginning of the year

than on those issued later in the same year, The serial |

ad

”

$-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE —

 
74-0000

10.

ll.

12.

13.

14;

Types of Forcign Passports Used by IS Agents Ud

15.

BAE-C-R-E-1
NO VUREIGN DISSEY

~3- CS-311/00866-64

numbers are generally in a five-digit pattern, although t¢
yas noted that from June to December 1962 they ascended to

six-digit numbers,

Source's ordinary passport issued in alias was allegedly ob-
tained in January 1964, but was given an issuance date of 28
August 1963 and bears a serial number consistent with the
accession pattern for the latter issuance date. Likewise,
five other Cuban ordinary passports issued in 1963 in alias
for use by agents under Source's supervision Year serial
numbers adhering to the accession pattern corresponding to
their particular dates of issue,

Grommets recently ceased to be used on photographs in Cuban
ordinary passports.

Bona-fide Visas, Vaccination Certificates, and Passages

Diplomatic visas for use in Cuban diplomatic passports in alias
are applied tor directly by the Cuban Forcign Ministry to the
forcign mission concerned in Havana. In Source's case appli-
cation was first made in March 1964 fcr a Chilean visa and
later for a Mexican visa, even though no travei to Chile was
contemplated, The reason for this was awareness by Cuban
authorities of licxican suspicion of Cuban diplomatic personnel,
The Cuban authorities believed the Mexican Embassy in Havana’
would be less suspicious of a passport containing a visa from
another Latin American conntry,

Passage bookings and international vaccination certificates
for use by staff employees and agents using Cuban alias pass-
ports are also obtained through the Cuban Foreign Ministry.
Vaccination certificates are obtained from the Instituto
Cubano de Amistad con los Pueblos (ICAP). IS personnel's
passages are always booked on Cubana Airlines because such
fares are puyabic in Cuban pesos. No passages are booked on
Soviet or Czech airlines because these require payment in
U.S. dollars, which are scarce for the Cuban Government.

After a Cuban diplomatic passport has been used for one round
trip, an exit permit from the Cuban Foreign Ministry, known
as "Visto Bueno,” is required for each subsequent departure
from Cuba, The Foreign Ministry issues these to personnel
using alias passports in the Same way as they would for bona-
fide documents,

Foreign visas in ordinary passports issued in alias to IS
agents are applied for directly by the agents to the foreign
misSions concerned in Havana,

 

The Cuban IS makes use of valid passports from a number of
countries, including Mexico, all Central American countries,
Argentina, British Guiana, Colombia, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Haiti, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela, for document-
ing its agents, The IS had no access to, nor need for, pass-
ports from Spain and the United States. Source specified
that the [S does not use Uruguayan passports because the
Cuban Government does not wish to endanger its good relations
with that country. Valid filled-in and blank passports from

S-E-C-R-E-T .
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

   
