 

Prodtotaetoasa] =.

 

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel PagelO  *
| Tuesday - 8 November 1977 ; So va

fe ee

  

37. (Confidential - PG) LIAISON Received a telephone call | .
from Michael Glennon, Legal Counsel, Senate Foreign Relations....... ~. -
Subcommittee on International Operations, who was following up ona
request he made on4 November for a copy of the secrecy oath which .
former DCI Richard Helms had signed. I told Mr. Glennon that I was
checking this out with the appropriate elements of CIA and 1 hoped to won,
have an answer for him by the following day. ne 7

  
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 

 

 

wo tee, 38," ‘(ternal Use Only - PG) LIAISON ‘Spent the better part
-) of the afternoon in the Goordination & Review staff conference room. with
~ Michael J. Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on -- +) ar
International Organizations, House International Relations Committee,
Also present were DDO representatives Evalina Vidal,
. (for only the beginning of the meeting) and . We discussed .
' the Subcommittee's request to make certain CIA information public ~:
and Mr. Hershman gave us a summary he had prepared for the use of
“-: Members at upcoming public hearings. Mrs. will review the. -

' summary and sanitize it as necessary. The remainder of the session
was spent in an exchange of views ag to CIA's role in ongoing -~.:..
Congressional investigations of ‘ROK/ KCIA and related subjects.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: 39. (Internal Use Only = RIK) LIAISON ‘Spoke with Lot Cooke,
g . -  onm the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, concerning = -
' William R, Harris, a consultant with the Committee who also works ..
for the Rand Corporation. . Since Harris has already been briefed at.
' Rand on compartmented clearances, it will not be necessary for him to
receive a briefing on them at this time. a ack Williamson, SO/ DCL, -.
“has been advised, :
. “Cooke also requested t the clearances held by Professor G. ‘Robert
Blakey,. Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on
Assassinations, and Gary Cornwell, of the staff, “because
review a sensitive Committee document, After checking with Dan Godar, 7
OS, I advised him that they had their Proper clearances for reviewing
the documents. oo, a ae mT

_ 40, (Unclassified - _ RSG): LIAISON Spoke with Betsey wolf,
‘House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, and offered to send t to
her a copy of the document she reviewed here yesterday. The document

was an index of Freedom of Information Act exemptions on documents —
involving the assassination of President I ohn F. Kennedy.

“jag

 
