 

£
set

B @. What was the identity of the aqent tiuide Cuba who gars GatDES

the aoanage he browgzht to the CIA coetact in. Miaos oa ik Barch Lady;
pinay ,be,, Weat. was the ideatity--or cage or Régesn--ucaed by the CIA case
Officer in Hiaw4; “ . . : : oo:
: .'@, “Was Geddes given any soses of clancastine radio-tranesiaaton;
qd. What wore the fostructicas gleee to GRDDEg bp bie c8os officer.

4.‘ ir Riptiod ag follows: : . So

 

8. The coly wsace of Codeunteatisa gives te Cediés, sosivas bis
Open code phone contact vita his wife La Boca Raton, was a very ainple s#
systew, Gedées was Rot gtveo any means for claateatico fR610--trangmiesiog,

b. [ever ret 73a aad related the follovieg chrozologs of
Goddes' activa oa WH/4 filea: : :

ll March: Gsddes cass to Miant on the sight of ll Serca and nade contact

 

TITH Caboaze/4, a Coban fo #ieei @he waa le eccatact aith tee CIA offica, --
Gaddow had a aunsage froa Cavbaga/l a CIA contest tas tde Cuba. C-8 put
Geééos in contact gith a CIA s8se officer ‘fs wind 2 13 Harch, Gedées _
Clained to bs an active Beker of the Uaitad Revolueloraria, a restsiance

he ART Sater Gedies aaid the
Cuban Navy has a plea to attack all OrOCastrs facilitios asd thes. flee
Cuba on of absut 32 Birch, Cettes étg cat Bek for any mosey, His gativatics
Bas. act kasea, Tha case Officer Stmtrsetishs ts Gaddes were reiated @oiely
te Geddea' report that the Cupaa Ravy oosig fefect. Geddes raturned ts
Havaaa, , mS foe .

  

16 Harsch: Geddaa Separtes fer Havana, : a .
40 Warch: Wo board indirectly + Gedéos hed paevad kis vite acd tedicated

TEST ERS tedividsal (C-D wits waon be mad beoe “ec llabsrating da. Caivad
Beveluctonaria vas in trcetle, Tao fact benind this ahs that ong of Sue
agsuts Caeaer of tte TR) iteiée Cubs bec agateat inetructzone visited ats
wife ta Cuba. Asa geeole SR Bet of coves cerersw wag Geroated iscliding

c-1, Besides C-1, ecas of the Othere of tare net Rees of Geddes’ sctivitier.
‘Ol March: - Geddes returned to Siaai. - :

26 Harch: Gsddes came to Havana, Re vas Riven @ sinvle 88 syuten,

Gtaniag about 28 warch ww had Fesce to Bibcect Gecces as a Prealible
provocdtsur gince the dsfectioa aed pot come off and possibility of meaping
the defection of the Navy ageret ta iteel£: was igplazetbile,

é

R7 March: Geddes soet 2 S¥ Se se6g0 to Haas rogardiog the posatble Cuban
Wai defeotiog, - : .

28 March: Throogh open océe telecon vita wife said Sefection of Ravy eat
r 4 Aprai, - . mo, .

89 Maret: _Gadeoo called wife oa telephoas,:

Son

 

 

we aetupurceY a atusrh .
 

104-10226-10045

 

 

 

MAWORANDTH FOR THE RECORD 7 _
SUBJECT; Briefing of by WR/4,

 

aa Canadian,

 

etpouastancea Boich taoy felt were net woattored,

~e

eonet

4 may 1961

 

 

 

,

1. Is view of the request of ur.
for i¢entities and fur TEC PIFETCT s 3 the

 

representative, t ;
Lia 3 é4ee ‘chee 8 wmevting ear held 3 n Wa/e/ct,
iin wr. Cleveland C. Cras and ot wa/ée

“RT present.

3. ‘At the outset Mr. [_fravieee the following tnfocnation:

. Robert Bortsc Geddea fs a British sudject born 1a

Lian, Peru, oa 7 April 1932. de b5lds arittaa’ passport: Ke, ¢-3.4880, ;
desved. at Hasagua oo 16 Jone 1958... Re vase out regiasered at the.
British Consulate sa Havaas ard was regarded as being Asericas or.

t. Tes eaplocyeos of the British Eabaosy, Havana; ‘hag visited

Ged3eo in the Bavaoa jai} Carlitary G-2 se toe) on Sunday svening,

 

tice with Geddas alone under
Geddog stated to
thea: (1) On 19 April se was arrested dy the ailitia (ts civilian
clothes) at his hotel; (4) He had been interrogated three tines and .
the dmpresaion that Be had not 4isciceed anything of iaportance;

90. Agril 1961, aod had @ iS-aiacte converss

%). Bs was accceaed of Boing a CIA agent. and ts 14 that he could be
, BASE Because of the extetence of civil war: 4)

During tas third

imtorregatics Geddes ves snzin She teer Revo 8 aesaage to Spanien
gigued by Gedéea which vas aest Allegediy by aia by radio~ tras saitter
askiag’ that CIA sead aras to Cuba, .

‘e. The British ‘Bebsesy in Bavasa learned on Saturday,

 

S9 Aprtl 1961, that Gegdes had regularity tees "picke 2 the ~
- Ravens airport co tis trips ta aod frog Wiamt (ur. waa. aot!
-cortaia wuat- exact: lBterpretatioa could bs: givea ts SLES :

“picked up™).
3, After relating the above, fir. etate?d that his
or tf sort of atory tha Cubasag

ig taterested in chtalsing an estinate
wight ose against Gedter or ie prevacaticn agaios? the British Beoassy,
pertsps to grove that the British Bebasey had beet tm Collustoo with
the €. 8. Poferred to tae follawisg specific queations which ke
Rag subai{tec cariior on 4‘bMay and which tere relayed by FE/s

ef aasverea to be given ib the afteratss segaton by

 

 

 

 

42

 
74-0000

Tae

en ne

-3-

11: Godées sent on S¥ aoseige whith sae dand-carried’ to
y & k courter. Gedéea alaa baa & telecss wits his vite oa

this day, .
a April: Ostées anid 4a “teleces to wife thet saval conspirators

TulT Beet a5 3 April aod Geddea sould give co oe 3 April @ ginal
date for the defectica, | ; : 7

4-Agril: C9édeu indigated ta telecsa te wife that tne Baral
Te¥orTion vould taze place “say eay” avy. .

‘ee réeoived @ BsBeage frow Geddes Selivered bya thiré

7 Aprai:
pirty Ccourisr) that the Havy plana to defect on 3 or 7 Aprit,.
Geddes returned ts Hiasi aad said the date was sov est for & or 3

April. .
10 April: Geddes returned to Havana, - i,

bet peti: Ged4ea telephoned bis vife teat the defection . esul4 take
Plaoo on 18 or 14 April. . :

Gedéeo in telecon wits vite _fopertod that the Gefecties-

16 April:
Pou ars be on 17 or 18 “April.

we e. During the acedudt of the above tervaslogy, Biweces
Bade the following comments: - : .

qi) the ‘ou agent feaide (C-1) vouched fer Geééea but we hers ta.

' Beadgearters do set keoy %6 what extent Geolbas ages ints the back-
ground ef Ceddes ond his coatacta. ¥, 4 advise Hisai ect te
take asy Beution until we had-abtatacd concerrasce bat by

. tast tise Gacdes had alroady returned vata, He reiterated that
~ Gedess was a walk-ia and wag gever troa ted es an 8gest.

ie (8) Geddne aod his. foremaat-Feagardicg the éefertion of the Cabin
:, ° Bavy worg scispeet frse tha ‘oataat. Ho élaissd to be @ Britiea .
eitisen ‘Gut vas alreaty perforaiag fer the €.B.

: . (3) Yo @. Questisa ge ta wistker Goddes bad any accege
2 ta a 3/P ena, roplied that to bis Rasvilecge Gnddes scaly Bag *
: phose ecatact WT! @ Bits, SY aad eas of ecaerior,

i... (4) ¥ aras éelivertoa vere tavolved in tte esatact with Gedéss. |
Pe” ¢B) me rittt? kd would look inte whoa Gates coald cortamizate

aeansten reysited regzast for iésatities of
.SGa2 officer, and the cet teat wes arrested os
Splied that caly ths OC! sas tas Batherity tp -

ation. - °

  
 
  
  
 
  
  

 

“Qn : Tee Wiset case officer never esr ved tastes Cuba.

 
74-0000

   

PM gt

 

A:

    
   
  
 

 

 

| ete thst he would now-sond off a eoaes

2g that Geddée wight be a Pho2ay——a provocateur,
BQ anked that hy be provided with the fellowing:: ot

8. CiA appreciation of the United Rovolostsnaria;
“UB. Wapetiies-ef 6-1, C-4 an bers of the net with whos.
7] was. spfeetes sn Barc 18 (B3ta:. pcknoe! edged that besides

C-1 coacotvatly several other avabera 6 * Sot aight have known of
Geides sad bio activities.) : nn oO

 

     

~ ¢,. Weatities of the Couriers who had contact vith Coddes ;
|" @) Tho teentity of the CIA cage officer--the pase oF naves.,
gaed by hig'in ecatacta with Geddes; - - Do :

  

os, a, Chrosologtes} @aunary of the vistta 67. Geddes te Mieat
anu seturne to Bavansa; ales a list of the satere ef his ‘COmaunicationgs ~
to Biaai (by telecoa, eourisr, ete.) aad Ceaguaications aeat to hig 16

Bavara, .

 

 

 

 

 

"8. After had put a aveber of questions te :
- the latter aazed Thether Costes is goseihly. a gaa
Which Gldfield esp cally answered ia the sogative mo

sBicatisa ”

 Heeeticed ta ott uwipe seaport amaretto Al RUTH rec EE HUNTER NON

t
:
