ADDENDUM

Pursuant to the Treasury, Postal Service and General
Government Appropriations Act of 1991, the following language
shall be incorporated into and considered a part of the
attached nondisclosure agreement:

‘“These restrictions are consistent with and do not
supersede conflict with or otherwise alter the employee
obligations rights or liabilities created by Executive Order

/12356; section 7211 of ‘title 5, United States Code (governing

disclosures to Congress); section:1034 of title 10, United
States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower-
Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of
the military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States
Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing
disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health
or safety threats); the In.+. -°nce Identities Protection Act
of. 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.) (gc. "= Gdisciosures 7S ce ad
expose confidential Government agenis;, and the statutes wnich
protect against disclosure that may compromise the national :
security, including section. 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of
title 18, United States Code, and section 4({(b) of the
Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 783(b)).-
The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions
and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed
statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are
controlling.” .
Feats:

  
 
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
     
   
  
   
  
    
  

—

aDNads438

 

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I acknowledge the fact that because of the confidential
relationship between myself and the U.S. Government, I will.be the
recipient of information which, in itself, or by the implications
to be drawn therefrom, will be such that its unlawful disclosure
or loose handling may adversely affect ‘the interest and the security
of the United States. I realize that the methods of collecting
and of using this information, as well as the identity of persons
involved, are as secret as the substantive information itself and,
therefore, must be treated by me with an equal degree of secrecy.

2. I shall always recognize that the U.S. Government has the
sole interest in. all information which I or my organization may
possess, compile or acquire pursuant to this understanding. No
advantage or gain will be sought by me as a result of the added
significance or value such information may have » due to the Govern-
ment 's interest in it.

3. I solemly pledge my word that I will never divulge, publish,
nor reveal either by word, conduct, or by any other means such informa-
tion or Imowledge, as indicated above, unless specifically authorized
to do so, by the U.S. Government.

he, Nothing in this understanding is to be taken as imposing any
restriction upon thé normal business practices of myself or my orgeni-
zation: i.e., information normally possessed by us or gathered in the
regular course of business will continue to be utilized in accordance
with our normal practices.

SIGNATURE: SIGNATURE:

- - Soar nen ee
/REPRESENTAVGVE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT

 

ORGANIZATION

  

 

FORM NO.
1 APR S55 611
FORM
see 611

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. Lacknowledge the fact that because of the confidential relationship between myself
and the U.S. Government, I will be the recipient of information which, in itself, or by the im-
plications to be drawn therefrom, will be such that its unlawful disclosure or loose handling
may adversely affect the interest and ‘the security of the United States. I realize that the
methods of collecting and of using this information, as well as the identity of persons involved,
are as secret as the substantive information itself and, therefore, must be treated by me with
an equal degree of secrecy.

2. I shall always recognize that the U.S. Government has the sole interest in all informa-
tion which I or my organization may possess, compile or acquire pursuant to this understan-
ding. No advantage or gain will be sought by me as a result of the added significance or value
such information may have, due to the Government's interest in it.

3. Isolemrily pledge my word that I will never divulge, publish, nor reveal either by word,
conduct, or by any other means such information or knowledge, as indicated above, unless
specifically authorized to do so, by the U.S. Government.

4. Nothing in this understanding is to be taken as imposing any restriction upon the nor-
mal business practices of myself or my organization: i.c., information normally possessed by us
or gathered in the regular course of business will continue to be utilized in accordance with our
normal practices.

SIGNATURE: SIGNATURE

 

REPRESENTATIVE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT

ORGANIZATION

 

 

{82}

eae
13-00000

 

 

. OCC-96-086
19 NOV 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira
Historical Review Group

FROM:
eputy Tét; fice of Central Cover

SUBJECT: Response to Questions Posed by the John F.
Kennedy Assassination Review Board

 

1. During the OCC briefing of the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Review Board on 16 October 1996, members of the
Board asked three questions to which OCC said it would respond
after additional research. Following are the questions and the
responses:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALL PORTIONS OF CL BY (523550
THIS DOCUMENT ARE REASON 1.5 (c)
CLASSIFIED SECRET DECL Xl; 12 November 2021

DRV COV 2-87

 

 

 
104-10330-10133

 

SECRET

13 December 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

SUBJECT: = | +~Response to Questions Posed by the
Assassination Records Review Board

1. The attached memorandum and attachments are in
response to questions raised by ARRB members during the 16
October 1996 briefing. They are provided to the Review Board
for background purposes only. We request that the memorandum
and its attachments be returned to CIA once the Review Board
has completed its deliberations on these issues.

2. Please note that the author of the memorandum is
under cover and her name is classified.

 

“dohn F. Pereira _
Chief, Historical Review Group

This memorandum is unclassified
when separated from:attachments

SECRET
13-00000 |

SUBJECT: Response to Questions Posed by the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Review Board

c. Could a copy of the secrecy agreement which is signed by

 

 

 

 

be made available, and has it changed since the 1960s? Response:
Attached is a copy of the secrecy agreement used from 1955 to
1988 and a copy of the agreement used from 1988 to the present.
The only difference is an addendum on the reverse which was added
in 1991 pursuant to the Treasury, Postal Service and General
Government Appropriations Act of 1991.

2. This memorandum and its attachments are for background
information only and must be returned to the Central Intelligence
Agency after review by the John F. Kennedy Assassination Review
Board.

 

 

 

 

Attachment:
as stated

cc: Fredrick Wickham, IMS

 

 
13-00000 ; . :
rn mH "SECRET

 

SUBJECT: Response to Questions Posed by the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Review Board

pc/occ(ihf{_ «432435 18Nov96 file:jfkboard)
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Address
-ve/oce {|__| se
~ His. Review mean hornets”)
- OCC/EXQ

- OGC

 

RRR

 

 

 

 

3

SECRET

 
