74-0000

 

 

 

ae Subjeetinay have, if aay, 1s witha the Bureau's jurisdictica
rather than that of this Agéncy. :

Donovain E. Pratt
LC/CHUREA

Distribution:
Orig ~- DCI
7 1. DDP
i « Executive-Comptroller

eAIDCE
= Office of Security ; .
- Director, Domestic Centact Lervice

« C/CL, DDC/CI

» ROD/ Files, 202 -834272

Le CI/R&A chrone

1» OP Garrison ile

ee tee ee

 

1 - General Counsel Mee ee
 

 

 

> + said, be was an sparstive of the Central. tatolligence
; “Agency. ;

\

32. The Kew Orleans Times- ~pisayume of jz Deceniser 1968

lacludéd ihe following tiara:

“Garrison alao éainmerited oa witltan Boley, . ao
an‘ investigator he’ fired on stonday docduse, Garrisoa rots

"Ha wad not enly acta agent,’ eat the DA, * but

 

_. ho was one on a very high level’, Asked what proof his ;
oliice developed, Garrison eaid tt concerned material =

that Bosley, had put in written fern.
“Bosley, contacted in Auetin, Tox., told the

Times-Picayune on Wednesday that he has not been

jnavelved with tha CHA OF any fedsral agency since 1952.

“He said he belleved Garrison ‘hae been genudacly

'. weieled* about his CLA involvement, adding: ‘Lam sare

he belloves: “ae stroagly in this (hie alleged CLA involvement)
aa he once bellaved is mo.” Bouley said he would cooperate
completely with Garrison's offica in returning to it material |
he etl] has ja hie posseaaton.

Boxley seid the only written’ wnatortal be. ever provided
Garrison's. office waa a doze ription af how various intelligence
agencies operate.

Boxley sald ho was ‘really ead’ over hie firing by.
Garrison, but added that he dbevHewed no one could convince
Garrison that he waa not an ageat of the CIA."

Cc. Current Develosmenta

!8. On 27 Dece:nber 1968 Dr. Stepben Aldrich of DD/S and T

informed the Office of Security that a8 1600 houre on 27 December he

nad received a telephone call (ram Subject, whe had been bis guberdinate

 

in

 

CI/RRA called Or. Aldrich, who supplied the following

 

 

edditiczal tafermation:

  

 
 

 

 

 

seer raean eee mee rrr itattrer eee me enter renner te tS cnr iaiennntAt nt

  

'& ponaibility of provocation.

“. soimeons would be in touch with idin. Dr. Aldrich sald that Subject's

a. W oop said that be was calling fro:n a pay .
- phone ine Seara Roebuck storé in. Callas. He provided
. ‘pa home 'teleghone nunber, which we have not béed able
to verify, and Ke believes that thie teleshone is bugged,

 

'.  b. WOOD had found the telesbone nuizber of .
Dr. Aldrich ta the directory. His only previous. eall was.

‘made im 1966: ‘when he. requested a recommendation for

_& Bewspaper jod tor. which he was sontying. Pr Aldrich

hin to Peroonnel. wan .

 
 

“ey Subject told Ds. ‘Aldrich on 27 December that
he bad intor-nation which be urgently wanted to comnunicate
te CIA. He sounded upset. | :

“ta. C/CURG&A adviaed Dr. Aldrich that Uf Subject telephoned
égein, he should ne told that hia call had been referred to the proper
‘authorities. Becausé of the tafersnation reported above, there was

* 15. Inthe cnid-afternoon of 23 December 1968 Subject again
telephoned Dr. Aldrich {fom an unknown location. He asked whether.

information had been relayed to those respensible and that he had mo
information about future contact. Subject said that be was not trying
to involve Dr. Aldrich but that he did have information to relay. He
eounded leas frighteaed than on his previous call. He suggested that —
whoever called or vieited hich should identity himself by reierring to
information held in common {i.e., a, 1951-1952}, Outefa

Joby ‘WOOD had received two o2 three offers of employment but.was not

Bure of the identities ‘ol the prespective employers and ieared
provacation, preeurmably.from Garrison's office. Anparently he believes
that the FB11i6 monitoring his hesuc telephone.

16. It ie our intent to ask the Bureau to relay this information
to its office in Dallas and to instruct an FBI representative to call
upon Subject and request clucidation, because ouch information

 
 

   

 

 
   
   
   

a told: ‘that OSS ‘could | not. tise @ him at that
but tha jee) Aa Couch. The- inte viewing officer” ta
Honolulu commented in hi part to Security Oliteer, Oss Headquarters,
“thant thie Duan ‘and Bradatreet eax should be noted and that WOO:
. €eétalnly knew hore about OS thas any other votential recruit when, the ©
_ interviewer had ever seen. ‘

    

 
 

  

2. On-t3 Dece-aver 198 0 Suvject was givana Covert Security
Clearance lor use ae 4 staif agent and waa assigned tol ___—siae Chief
Inotructor of Clandestina O;erations, Ho arrived at hip post in March
1951, and.two :nontha later bis dependente were dsoued travel clearances
to jota hima. in March i9.2:he sulfered a nervous breakdown, and was
returned to Agency Headquarters ior medical obeérvation, The inedical
concluston was that the breakdown had ras. tad from. family trovsles and
overindul yonece in wlcohol. In May 1992 OOD wae assigned to OTR
80° an instructor in the Ope rationg Gourse. in Octéber 1942 his status
was converted to that of a ataif employee, and he wae asatgned to OTR

as & Gs- il inatructor,

.. in December (952 an Apeney. guard found WOOD lying on a
eidewalx noar Tecnperary Fye Building. He wan bleeding from the
aiouth. There wae no wvidence of faul play. At bie swm request he was
taken to Emnorgercy Hosnttal, In January 1953 be fallad to report fer
éuty. Agency ropresemtivus wend to bis residence, the Lafayette Hotel,
and foond him under the’ intlueace ol alcohol. He was requested ta report
for duty the next day, but.tho uotel doctor bad him re:noved to Gallinger
Hos pital Secause ‘of continued letusication. Sudject’s resignation was
Tegucsted on 19 Jamaary 1953 and became etlective 27 January i953.

 

‘4. Oalt july 1953 Subject teleohoned the Security Silice from
Ballas, Texas, Ho said that he would undergo brain surgery on 13 July
at Baylor Hospital, Dallas. fle asked that an Agency represuntative

be oreseat. Arrangements were made to unsure that anything WOOD
eald under anasethesia would tenain contidentini, WOOD was given
sedium pentethal, but wo gurzery fexcest a spinal tay) was performed,
in his heapital room, te which be had peen returned fro:n the operatiag
room, WOUD sald that he-bad served overseas with the CIA and had

 
 

  

 

 

I
H

 
 

104-10189-10013

 

 

 

 

 

 

seul

 

MEMORANDUM

‘SUBJECT: Garrison bad the Kennedy Asonesination:,

“Willen ‘Clarena WOOD Jr, allas Willtaim BOXLEY, :
201 2834272 . :

Reference: CURRA Memorandum No. >, Sabject: Gorrtson
and the Kennedy Avsapeination, > June i968, paragraph, 96° ‘

A. Summary

Willlara Clarens WOOD Jr. was employed vy CIA as a contract

inetructor in clandestine operations irom March 1951 when he arsived

in until March 1952, when he had a norvous breakdown reaulting”
igom lanly probleme and aleoholiara, Sent back to Headquarters,
tie. served a8 an inietructor in OTR from May 1952 to January 1953,

. when his resignal on was requested, agala because oi neavy ‘drinking.

1968 Garrison, who knew that WOOD had beon a

CIA amployee,” hired: hira a8 a investigator assigned toe Garrison's
‘“avesti gation" of the Kennedy aseasasination. in December 1968, however,
Garrison's office announced that WOOD had bean fred because it had been
\acértained that he wad then active as a CIA ‘operative’. Later in
Detember WOOD made two telephone calla to bis former chie! in

 

  

“requesting contact and instructions. The case is boing referred to tae FBI.

B. Summary of Larlior Events

1. William Clarens WOOD Jr., vorm 17 Auguat i920 in Shreveport,
Loulsians, was approved in November 1344 for overseas employment
ay OSS in an assignment 38 a news paperman (printing chief in a Central
Pacitle operation), This approval wae withdrawn on 23 Cecemper 1944,
however, because Of non-concurrence by OG/AAF. He waa then assigned
to combat iniantry duty in the Southwest Pacific; he was not used by OSS.
in February $945 he sited the Honolulu Office oi OSS and claimed that

Oiwer 1
Exclyse@ tram aytt a...
Aeeniracing aue

deciryaleatiag

 
  
  

SECRET

 
74-0000

 

- tbteli gence officer fot. Fo ,
ampleyed by: the CIA. “He offered to. hel» ‘the officer “with things I know",

He then ‘telephoned Lubbock, Texas, end spde to a person believed to

 

 

‘goun. many, peoole’ killed, “sTha- ‘CLA ave a bunch of dirty ciit-throate, |

end I wouldn' t Sea hit’ surprised if they seat one of thelr men to cut.

. mala.” They think - thay | are |
- feture [ will show thei
GS-1ee walking around. with their heads shaped like ogg

na ety is one of these dsye | ‘in the near
in who le the a:uartest, ‘Thay have. about 109 ©
«. thave’
boon a failure but af rl jet well Lom going t go. ck to ‘achoal. ‘and

geet =r degrie. and figot the: “CIA with everything ‘that r can,” .

 

 

   
    

bn tk report of 30 April 1957 from the, Fat ottice ius Deliae, Texas,

noted that Subject had tolenhoned’ frony Midiand, Toxao, fo a Chinese
Osa. WOOD sald that he aad. formerly ‘been

 

 

 

be his wife, ‘He. told her that he had spoken with Chiang Kai-Chok's chief
of intollizence-and that “if this thing co@s through’ » ehe and the dovy
would receive from $790, to: $1000 a m.oath. :

& In February 167 the Doriestic Contact Service in Dallas
requested clearance to usd Sadject and reported that he had net had a
driak in nine and s half yeara, Gn 3 March 1947 derogatory FOE informa-
tioa and the information that WOOD was agata drinking heavily were
forwarded te the DCS, whlch then dropped him as 4 potentis! scurce,

¥. Cn 18 January 1958 Ron OSTROW of the Los Angelos Tio-ds
called the A/DCI and relayed a Loe Anyeles sucry about 6 former CIA
agent, “illiam BOXLEY, who was an investigator for Jin Garrigon, ©
The A/DCI rezlied, "no comrnent, "

8 In April 1943 Paul ROTHERMEL, security officer for Hunt
OU Company, Texas, said that a had been visited by a BJM WOOD who
was conductlag lavestigations in Dulas for Jim Garrison under the alias
of BUIBOXLEY, WOOD wae making laguiries about the CIA and ite

-Operations, It was further resorted that CoD was well kaown in

Houston aad that his connection with Garrison was nu secrat,

9. On 12 July 1965 the Now York Tires (p. C34) carried an article
headlined “Garrison Claims Fereign Soy ny Link”, The article includes
the fellowlag:

“Over the telgchone, “iz. Garzigon alse intreduced an
investigator fov bis office, Dill Boxley, aa a former

3

SEbhET oF

 

 
74-00000

 

 

 

. Central Intelli sence Agency inetractor fa the ‘clandestine
erations depart: ment’. -He said be had isund Mr, Boxley |
e ‘geentay a ‘nun Who had been WHA the intelligence
agency: ‘but sal cared about'the United States; a

  

 

. “MeL Bauley thea said. ‘nla-real sane was Williaa c. ;
“Woods ‘he, wag iorty-elght’ years old, originally from Texas;
., he had @orked. ld_-years ae/a aeweraser reporter «= lagt- .
on The Deaver Post from 1943 to 1955; ne had been with the!
intellizgeace agency two to live years in the 1750's overseas

and in Washington and had. ‘ueed a9 many aa 10-different’
nares in ove rations with the. agency’.

  

10. The bacic dacte about WOOD were provided to the FBI by
CSCE 316/02725-63 of 15 July 1968. Acditivaal colevant infor:aation
was raquested. Tie Bureau replied on i5 July 1966 that the “Berkeley
Barb", published by the Underground “reas' Syndicate, had stated in
ite tasue af 29, December 1967 ~. 4 Jananry-1968 that BU BOXLEY,
/ an investigator for Garrigon, had veriited a Maiia plot to kill Garrison.

tl, The New Orlcans Times-Pica at ‘10 Dacember 1963
carried the iollowing: , -

“The eifice of Orleans Parieh Liatrict Attorney Jim
Garrison Monday-announced the remeval of a member of
the otafi investigating the assassination of President John

« Kennedy because of alleged involvement with the CIA.

* "William Bosdey was lized after evidence recently
' developed by the fAstrict Attorney's ataif indicated current
activity by his as an operative of the Ceniral Intelligence
Ayency, ' tha oiflce said. —

“Boxley'’s initial service with the CLA waa in Washingtan,
D. C.; where he served for years aa an active agent for ‘what

‘was. then termod the Department of Covert Activity’, according
te the ofitce. :

‘The ofdice said federal latelligeace eliorts to interlere
with the iavestigation into President Kenaedy's assassination
have been-oceurring since the veginning of the inquiry’.

° t

CESHET

 

   
