13-00000

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
by any agency or department of the United States Government, shall
not be released or divulged in any way, form, shape or manner
without the approval of the Select: Committee or one of its
subcommittees." .

2. In his letter to Chairman Stokes, dated 23 April 1979, the
DCI writes: “I have your letter of 26 March 1979 requesting that
the congressional material and related information from your
Committees investigations not be publicly disclosed-without the
written concurrence of the House of Representatives, and I will be
guided accordingly.* .

Comment: Since the DCI's letter, which is quoted in its
entirety, falls squarely within our interpretation of HSCA
Equities, we presumably have to obtain the written concurrence of
the House before releasing it.

3. The Agency HSCA Coordinator, Scott Breckenridge, in a
5 April 1979 memorandum to the DCI, Subject: HSCA Correspondence,
states: the basis for doing so is an apparent misunderstanding on
the part of Blakey (Chief Counsel, HSCA) that our written comments
from the HSCA drafts are subject to FOIA proceedings. Our
agreement with Blakey was that the Agency will retain no copies of
the various draft reports or of our written comments. Most of
this material has been retrieved by the OLC Registry, and the rest
will be retrieved following such comment that we may make on the
final HSCA report. The point is that these were, by, agreement
with the Committee, not to become records; specfically that they
would be destroyed."

4. In a memorandum for the record, dated 6 April 1979,
Subject: Meeting Regarding Disposition of CIA Material related to
the HSCA Investigation, Jon E. Wolfe, DDA Records Management
Officer, states in para. 3: "It was noted that Representative
Stokes had, by a recent letter the DCI, Requested that none of the
collection be made subject to the FOIA. While the group ©
unanimously agreed that the CIA could not legally exempt any of
the CIA records from the FOIA, it was pointed out that our
probable retirement procedures would preclude any retrieval on
individual documents within the collection. That is, individual
documents within the collection would not be locatable without an
ardous document by document search ~- a process not required under
the FOIA."

5. In a 27 April memorandum for the record regarding HSCA
Chief Counsel Blakey's visit to CIA Headquarters, R. Holmes writes
in para. 3: “Category 2: Material generated by the HSCA from
Agency classified holdings made available to the HSCA in response
to the latter's request. Note: Mr. Blakey stated that he
considered this material to be the property of the HSCA, and,

.therefore not releasable to the public or other unauthorized

personnel under the provisions of the FOIA."

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
104-10428-10008

 

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

27 November 1990

F81-0351, Working Paper
HSCA Equities

The purpose of this paper is to identify and pull together
basic documents and other material bearing on the Congressional or
HSCA Equities exemption. Hopefully this may be useful to the JFK
Task Force in its interpretetion and application of this
exemption. With the processing phase of the Allen litigation
drawing to a close, it may also help in consistency of treatment
and, perhaps, prevent or lessen future flaps during the inevitable

Appeals stage.

As our processing of the OLC material has progressed, we have
become. increasingly concerned about our treatment of materials
where the HSCA Equities exemption is applicable. Perhaps at the
core of our problem is the dilemma posed by the contradiction
between the Court ordered Stipulation 3h and instructions from the
House of Representatives.

Stipulation 3h enjoins the Agency to search for: “Any records
relating to any assignment by the CIA to an employee of the CIA to
review, evaluate or assess any final or interim report by the
HSCA.”

However, HSCA Chairman Stokes, in his letter to the DCI of 26
March 1979 states: “A great deal of material has been generated
by your Agency in response to specific requests or concerns of the

‘Select Committee. In addition, your Agency is in physical custody

of a variety of materials originating from the Select Committee.
It can be anticipated that your Agency will receive requests under
the Freedom of Information Act for access to these materials. The
purpose of this letter is to request specifically that this
Congressional material and related information in a form connected
with the Committee not be disclosed outside your Agency without
the written concurrence of the House of Representatives."

Attached to this paper are other documents concerned with
various aspects of Congressional Equities. The following
pertinent quotes are taken from some of these documents:

1. Rules of the HSCA adopted 7 March 1977 as amended, Rule

“10.8: "The Chief Counsel and deputy chief counsels shall have

authority to designate materials and documents as sensitive. The
contents of all such materials and documents, in addition to any
materials or documents already classified or marked confidential

OFFTCTAT. T1ISE ONT.Y
13-00000

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

6. In a memorandum to the DCI, dated 8 November 1978,
Subject: HSCA Proposal for Review of Preliminary Reports, the
Principal Coordinator, HSCA writes:

“para. 2, Background: The Chief Counsel of the HSCA has
proposed a procedure, outside the formal Memorandum of
Understanding, for preliminary. review of the draft
reports prepared by the staff. We will be provided the
reports and will convey our comments in a series of
meetings. To avoid a record of the exchanges we must
agree to keep no copies of the draft. (we will be allowed
to reproduce copies) and to prepare no formal papers; all
Agency reaction will be kept in informal working notes
that will be destroyed. We must commit ourselves to this
and establich procedures that will insure compliance.

para. 4, Recommendation: It is recommended that we accept
Mr. Blakey's conditions and that the undersigned be autho-
rized to so state to him." 7
Comment: Some very basic questions arise here. Is this agreement
with HSCA binding at this date, particularly in view of its
conflict with the Courts Stipulation 3h? Right now we are
processing some draft reports, errata sheets, pencilled notes,
etc., which, according to the agreement, should have been
destroyed long ago? How do we handle this?

Also, details of the review process are discussed extensively
in internal CIA memoranda and in CIA letters to the HSCA. Ina
strict interpretation of HSCA Equities, should such material not
also be exempt? We believe that it should be.

7. It is realized that some of the statements and comments
made above may no longer apply and may have been somewhat
conjectural to begin with, particularly paras. 3 to 5. However
they may be useful as guidelines, since there is a dearth of
specific instructions on how to handle HSCA Equities.

8. Since it bears directly on Congressional Equities and
serves as an important precedent, included in the attachments is
also correspondence relative to the Agency's implementation of
Stipulation 3j. This Stipulation reads in part: “The CIA shall
write to Congressman Louis Stokes and/ or the Clerk of the U.S.
House of Representatives requesting that the CIA be allowed to
process for possible disclosure the draft HSCA study on Lee Harvey
Oswald's activities in Mexico City. If the Congress withholds
consent, the CIA's obligations under this subparagraph shall be
deemed satisfied."

‘N

Materials attached include:

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
13-00000

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

° uU.S., District Court for the District of Columbia's,
Stipulation, dated 10 June 1988;

° Letter from the CIA Director of Congressional Affairs, to
the Clerk of the House of Representatives, dated 25 August 1978;

° The Clerk of the House's response to above letter, dated
9 September 1988, which withholds consent to process the
Stipulation 3j material;

¢ Letter from the CIA General Counsel's Office to James H.
Lesar, the litigant's lawyer, dated 28 September 1988, advising of
the above.

8. All the documents and material referred to above are to be
found in'the Basic HSCA Equities folder.

 

 

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
