74-00000

. ad
roid

van

8.7 @ring to Mr. O'Malley's Qrious responsibilities |
in coordinating funding for the covert action activities .
of Mr. E. Howard Hunt, the issue was raised as to whether

“or not the funding of Mr. Hunt's projects continued between
July 1965 and September 1966 while Mr. Hunt was a contract

employee stationed at Madrid, Spain. Mr. O'Malley recalled
that at the time of Mr. Hunt's assignment to Madrid the
statement disseminated for Consumption within the Agency
was that Mr. Hunt was retiring. Mr. O'Malley stated that
this was not generally believed. Mr. O'Malley was quite -
certain that during this period his office handled no
project funding for Mr. Hunt. In response to specific
question Mr. ‘O'Malley stated that on Mr. Hunt's return to
staff employment the projects and funding which Stopped in -
July 1965 were again resumed. Mr. O'Malley was not aware .‘- if
of any project names. or funding mechanisms or post-~assignment — -
accountings in connection with Mr. Hunt!s activities in re
Madrid. oo, : , os

 

 

  

Ybuig

. Frederick N. Evans

i Lawren J. Howe Lae

 

 

 

 

ao
wn
74-0000

 

\
rn
lan

with Mr. Robert R. Mullen as being close and cordial,
Mr. O'Malley stated that Mr.-Mullen was in the habit —
of confiding to him information concerning other Mullen
business contacts and projects. In response to a :
specific question, Mr. O'Malley stated that during the
period of his contact with the Mullen Company dealing
with the Free Cuba Committee, Mr. Mullen told him the |
Howard Hughes Organization was a client of the concern.

. 3. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous statements
that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement .
assistance through the Office of the Executive Director, 7.
then Colonel L. K. White. Mr. O'Malley stated that in <
view of Mr. Hunt’s interests in the public relations an
field, it was thought advisable to put Mr. Hunt in touch -
with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the .. oe
benefit of Mr. Mullen's guidance. Mr. O'Malley recalled, © -
after the initial meeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having |
“met Mr. Hunt some years previously in Paris, France. _
Mr. O'Malley's office arranged interviews with various: °°:
_ OYganizetions including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott ne
Copper Company. Through the offices of the Mullen Company .—
an interview was arranged with the General Foods Corpora- °°:
tion, a Mullen client. Mr. O'Malley stated there was oo
disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in.
“selling himself" during any of these interviews. and that
no job offers had resulted. In response to a quéstion
as to whether or not executive level interest was still
being shown in Mr. Hunt's post-employment placement, - .
Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Richard Helms, then OO:
Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a charac-.- --
ter reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr. Helms ;
Signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper
Company on Mr. Hunt's behalf. Mr. O'Malley recalled being.
Contacted in the last month of Mr. Hunt's Agency service by .
Mr. Mullen, who stated that a decision had been. made to oe
_expand their operations. In’view of this expansion, Mr. .
Mullen had decided he would himself offer Mr. Hunt a job.
Mr. Mullen had stated that he was interested in having Mr. .
Hunt begin work immediately. However, Mr. O'Malley re-
called that Mr. Hunt completed retirement formalities and
actually started work for the Mullen Company approximately
a week to 10 days later.

 
‘og 10408-10042

 

 

; FG Fats 12, 4 Tf
21 February 1974 4

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD |
SUBJECT: Watergate--Frank A. O'Malley

“4. At-3 p.m. on the afternoon of 19 February 1974, 0.
Mr. Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence J. Howe interviewed - ~~
Mr. Frank A. O'Malley at his residence, 6419 Lakeview ,
Drive, Falls Church, Virginia. . Mr. O'Malley retired .. Cok
from this Agency in June of 1972. Prior to retirement .-- °° le
Mr. O'Malley was an officer in the External Employment =. >
’ Assistance Branch, Retirement Activities Division of
the Office of Personnel. It was Mr. O'Malley's function
to assist personnel retiring from this Agency in finding
: post-retirement employment. In this capacity Mr. O'Malley
_had been instrumental in the placement of Mr. E. Howard ..
Hunt in the Robert R. Mullen public relations firm. The
purpose of this interview was to attempt to. determine if Seat,
additional information could be developed from Mr. O'Malley oe
with regard to the placement of Mr. Hunt with the Mullen — :
Company. : oe . a Te,

 

 

 

. 2. Mr. O'Malley began the interview by recalling ©

the nature of his past Agency associations both with Mr.
Hunt and the Mullen. Company. Mr. O'Malley stated that...
prior to assuming his responsibilities in the Office of
Personnel he had served with Central Cover Staff in the
area dealing with the funding of covert action projects. —
In this capacity he had become familiar with the acti-~
vities of Mr. Hunt while Mr. Hunt functioned on the Covert
Activities Staff primarily in the propaganda field.. Mr.
O'Malley stated that he first came in contact with the
Mullen Gompany when he was attempting to find an organi- ~
zation to handle the public relations effort of a covert
Agency activity known as the Free Cuba Committee. Mr.
O'Malley related that he had arranged this cover through
the Christianform Organization and that his duties in-
volved all aspects of the funding of this activity. Mr. ;

- O'Malley described the nature of his working relationship =.

 

RETURN TO CIA.
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce”
74-0000

omy

4. Mr. O'Malley stated that contact was maintained |
with Mr. Hunt while at the Mullen Company on a continuing
basis, because Mr. O'Malley was interested in Mr. Hunt
for possible referral of other Agency retirees. Mr. :
O'Malley also understood that there was Cover and Con-
mercial Steff interest in the Mullen Company, and that .
Mr. Hunt became instrumental in discussing several aspects
of the cover operations in his Capacity as.an officer of
‘the company. Mr. O'Malley recalled referring various
Agency officers to Mr. Hunt for guidance when these indi-
viduals: expressed an interest in entering the public
relations field. Mr. O'Malley did recall disappointment.
in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on |.
these occasions. oo oo oo nee

5. Mr. Hunt contacted Mr. O'Malley on several occasions ~~
requesting referral of retiring Agency employees with _ . coe
specific qualifications. These instances occurred apparent~ —
ly after Mr. Hunt had assumed his responsibilities with
the White House. In one instance Mr. Hunt requested re--

. ferral of a recently retired Agency secretary. As in
previous memoranda and discussions, Mr. O'Malley was unable -
to recall the name of this individual. He did, however, :
State that he is quite certain Mr. Hunt turned down the
individual whom he referred. .As a point of clarification,
Mr. O'Malley said that this individual had not previously
been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously worked ,
for him in any capacity. Mr. O'Malley also recalled a
request from Mr. Hunt for an individual having skills in

the area d surreptitious entry. A resume of - .
Mr. was provided to Mr. Hunt at that time. —.
It 1S Mr. O'Malley's recollection that Mr. Hunt specifically ©

Stated that a person with Mr. qualifications was
needed in connection with a requirement of the Howard |
Hughes Organization in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. O'Malley
stated the opinion that it was his impression that the
duties involved would include the monitoring of a listening
device in an undisclosed location. Mr. O'Malley reiterated
“his understanding that ir. [aia not dccept Mr. Hunt's
offer of employment. - :

 

6. Mr. G'Malley then recalled request from Mr. Hunt
for.a recommendation of a security ‘service organization —
to carry out an electronic countermeasures "sweep." Mr.
O'Malley recommended the Wackenhut Corporation. Mr. .

®

&)

we
w
74-00000

 

‘O'Malley recalled that Mr. Hunt expressed dissatisfaction
with that suggestion in part because of what Mr. Hunt :
viewed as that firm's political orientation. Mr. O'Malley
did not elaborate further on that remark. Mr. O'Malley ;
then suggested the use of Anderson Security Consultants, %

 

 

 

Incorporated,

Mr. O'Malley stated that insofar as this
organizetion was advertised in the yellow pages and that
-Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the ser-

vices, he felt this to be a reasonable suggestion. - Mr.
O'Malley stated that during a subsequent phone call when
_Mr. O'Malley asked how his suggestion had worked out,
Mr. Hunt responded, "Yes, they had done a fine job." °° ..
At this point Mr. O'Malley was asked whether or not from .
his associations with Mr. Hunt he felt Mr. Hunt was in -|-
the habit of making glib comments which were not neces-
sarily accurate in order to pass over a subject. Mri.

. O'Malley stated that this was categorically so. He said . :
he was sure that Mr. Hunt had lied to him on a number of. ~
occasions and that,therefore, he was in no position to

‘be sure that Mr. Hunt had actually, in fact, used the - 7
services of Anderson Security Consultants, Mr. O'Malley
volunteered the opinion that he suspected the électronic me
countermeasures "sweep" was to be carried out in the offices. ©:
of the Committee to. Re-elect the President... - +. wee

 

 

 

7s -In response to a question das to whether he had -
ever referred anyone to McCord Associates, Mr. O'Malley .
. replied that he remembered having referred Walter Brayden,  -°
‘Mr. Brayden for a time acted as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha -
Mitchell. As an aside Mr. O'Malley mentioned that Mr.-
Brayden had refused to carry a firearm in spite of the -
fact that Mr. McCord told him he could do.so on the author- —. -
ity of the Attorney General. Asked specifically if he had --
ever referred either William Shea or Teresa Shea to Mr... ~
McCord, Mr. O'Malley stated that he did not recall. speci£-
ically referring Teresa Shea and that he was sure that he
had not referred William Shea to him. So, contrary to
previous statements, it is now Mr. O'Malley's belief that
in all probability Mrs. Shea was not referred by this
Agency to Mr. McCord. : ae ;
