74-00000

-

5. On 17 April the writer secured an sppointment with Mr.
George .at 4:15 PM. At the outset the writer informed the U/FI

_of the background of the case, et e fact that we were aware

Mrs. Hunt had been used operati in the pest, that

in November 1962 Col. Edwards ped Fa d Hunt's est for
his wife to accept employment by 8 land -that-:
Fam had indicated to Gene Winters his. wife would take « or had
taken - the employment concerned. Mr. George was further informed
of the element of embarrassment we saw in this situation and which
led us to disapprove Hunt's request in the first place and was also
informed that, should it be desired.Mrs. Hunt be used operationally’,
coordination in this regard.would probably have to be effected with
the FBI. , :

 

 

6. In commenting on the above Mr. George stated. he had.not
been made aware previously that the Office.of Security. had dis-
approved any request from Hunt concerning his wife's employment
and that he considered all of the points put forward by the writer
on behalf of the Office of Security to be valid and well taken.

He asked ‘that Mr. Bamerman be informed that he would now take up
this situation with Mr. Helms and Mr. Karamessines and would suggest
a meeting on the matter to include a representative of the Office
of Security in order that allfacets of the situation be fully
explored. .He requested.that he be given 48 hours - and then said
by. the end of the week - within which to arrange matters with the
DOP. and requested further that Security not send through its letter
on this matter until the proposed meeting could-be had. He left
the writer with the definite impression that Mrs. Hunt might well
be of operational value to the Agency in that she has progressed

in her 5 nt tg, the point where she is writing speeches for
the band could possibly insert into such speeches .
many things this Agency might desire be emmciated. The writer
agreed to pass this information and request to Mr. Bannerman.

 

 

7. Mr. Winters was briefed on the situation and stated he would
inform the Deputy Director of Security. of Mr. George’s requests and
of the expected turn ‘of events in this case.

8. (The writer did not inform Mr. George of how the Office of
Security recelyed its information concerning the activities of Mrs.
Hunt-referred to. in the Memorandim for the Record prepared by the
Subject. . After Mr. George indicated he was unaware of what Mr. Helms

had done with the paper following their discussion of Mrs. Hunt's

activities and, further, that he had heard from Hunt that DODS officials

.peemed.to be fully aware of the situation, the writer did tell Mr.

George we bad learned of a memorandum for the record prepared by Mr. Hunt

=2-

CONFIDENTIAL

 
 

[td t0119-10091
: ,

 

.

3ev

24

4 CORTIBLE iA @

-MEMORANDOM FOR THE RECORD 18 April 1963

1. On 16-April Mr. Winters discussed.the case of the Bubject
with ‘the writer, in particular a Memorandm for the Record
by Hunt end-a Routing Slip from Mr. Bannerman to Mr. Winters dated

-15 April suggesting a letter to the Assistant Deputy. Director of

Plans. Hunt's Memorandum for the Record ci reflerted his wife
had procured.some material prepared by the had
turned this intelligence over to her husband who had, in turn, brought
it to W. Lloyd George, Chief, FI Staff; George took the miterial to
DDP for consideration.

 

_ 2. The situation referred to above could.clearly lead to serious

embarrasament to the Agency as it is apparent Mrs. Humt is engaging in
intelligence collection in the United Btates - “without any official
sanction for such activity.

3. The writer suggested to Mr. Winters that this entire situa-

. Lon was one we had anticipated. when we wrote a letter for Col. Edwards’

ture .de ssion to Hunt for his wife's employment by the
Mr. Winters readily recalled his own memorandum

 

‘relative to.a call from Hunt seeking advice on whether or not his
wife should. register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act due
to her “translation work in-her home for th -

 

(Memorandum of DD/PPS, 8 February 1963.) “Se

4. Both Mr. Winters andthe writer were concerned that trans-
mission of the letter through Tracy Barnes to Tom Karamessines might
really "stir up" all sorts of problems; it was not apparent how the
Security Officer of DODS, J. R. Murphy, had obtained a copy of Hunt's
Memorandum for the Record.on a matter that had been handled on ex-

tremely. high levels.in the DDP complex. It was decided that, before

a letter be prepared in accord with Mr. Bannerman's instructions Bs
it might be well to touch base with Lloyd George for a "reading"
on whether ‘or not it was intended Mrs. Hunt.be used operationally
in her present employment position.

CONFIDENTIAL

 

 
 

CONFIDENTIAL «= @

"and that this memorandum and ite content .was.the basis for the writer's
contact of C/FI at this point. Hence, Mr. G was. not told that
the DOS Security Officer referred this matter to us.)
9. Under Mr. Winters’ inst:

ructions the writer will hold this
case without. further action until advised.

tear Lzbece

_Iaurence G. Parr

OS: PSD: EAB: 1GParr :rls

+3

CONFIDENTIAL
