“yh

“beg Ghee

     
   

Ys

Fj : :
“Federal Register / Vol. 60. No. 26 / Wednesday,
Fae sneesteaieeeentcasaresnennsemecarenre et

 

dieclasuro of tho fullest possible

»  histoncal record on this uegedy and on

“subsequent investigations and inquires
into it. :

The Dourd's proposed guidance ts

, designod to help government agencies -
and the Board identify and maka
available to the public all documents
that will enhance, enrich, and broaden
the historical record of the assassination
of Prosidont John F. Kennedy. The
Board seeks through this guidance to
fulfill Congross’s “inton{t] and omphasis
that the search and disclasure of rocards
urder this Act must go beyond” the
Tecords of previous commissions and
Coramittees established to invesugato
Prosident Kennedy's assassination. fd. at
21. The Board also soeks to provide
nutica of the scope of its Intended
exercise of authurity ta soek additional.
information or records in ordor to fulfill

_ its functions and responsibilities under
the ARCA,

In addition, the Board propasas to
create a mechanism to facilitate the
Board's ongoing work and to further
ensure future public access to the 1
broadest possiblo historical record. Tals!
mechanism will be known as the
“Catalog of Assassination Records”
(COAR). The COAR is intended to be an

- offictal listing of all records determined

by the Board to meet the definition of
“assassination record” and included in
the JFK Collection. :

Request for Comments
The Board secks public comment on

its proposed Saterpretive regulations

intended to provide guidance on tho
intorpretation of the term assassination
record, the intended scope of its
exercise of authority to seek additional
inforination or records, and its
additions} propasals far {raplomontation
of the ARCA,

List of Subjects In 36 CFR Part 1400

Administrative practice and
procedure, Archives and records.

Accordingly, the Assassination - .
Records Review Board hereby proposes
to establish 6 new chepter XIV in title
36 of the Code of Fedoral Regulations to
read as follows: : .

 

CHAPTER XIV—ASSASSINATION
RECOADS. REVIEW BOARD
.

PART 1400—GUIDANCE FOR
INTERPRETATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION RECORDS
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (ARCA)

Soe.

1400.1 Interjrctution of assassination
record.

140u.2 Interpretation of.sdditieral records
oad icfunnatun.

15002 Sources of essarsitetion records and
additional recutds and tnfocmation.

1400.4 Types of materials included in scope
of assussination record and edditiona!
recurds and saformation.

1400.5 Requirement thet assassination
records be released in their entirely

1400.6 Guginals and copies.

1600.7 Additional guidance

14008 Impiementing the ARCA—Catelog of
Assassination Records

Authority: 44 U S.C. 2107 note.

$1400.14 interpretation of SsSassination

racord. :

« {a} An assussination record includes,

but is not hmited to, all records, public

and private, regardless of how labeled or

_ identified, that document, desenbe,

report, analyze, or interprat activities
and events that may have lod to the
assassination of President John F.
Kennedy; the assassination itself: and
Snvestigations of ur inquiries into the
assassination. — -

(6) An assossination record further
includes, without limitation:

(1) Alll records as defined in Sec. 3(2)
of the ARCA;

(2) All recordsalled bor segregated
by all foderal, statu focal
government agencies in conjunction
with any iavestigation or analysis of or
inquiry into the assassination of
President Kennedy (for example, any
intra-agency investigation or analysis of
or inquiry Into the assassination; any
inter-agency communication regarding
the assassination: any request by the
House Sclect Commitieeon |
Assassinations to collect documents and
othar materials; or any inter- or intras
agency collection or segregation of
documents and other materials): -

(3) Other records or groups of records
listed ia the Catalog of Assassination
Records, as described in § 1400.8 of this
chapter.

$ 1400.2 Interpretation of additionat
records and information,

The term additiondt infonnation and
records includes:

(a) AU documents used by
governmont offices and agencies during
thelr declassification reviow of

1

February 8, 1995 / Proposed Rules 7507

ne

assassination records as wall as all ather
documents, indices, records, and ather
matosial thet disclose cryptonyms, code
naines, or othor identification material
in assassination rocofds, -

(b) All waining manuals, instructional
materials, and guidelines created or
used by the egeaclos in furthorance of
thoir review of assassination recurds.

{c) All records, lists, and documents
describing the procedure by which the
egoncles identified or sclocted .
assass{nation records for review.

{d) Organizational charts of f hie
government agencies. .

(0) Records necessary and s{ficient to
descnbe the agency’s:

Q) Records policies and schedules;

(2 Filing systerns and orgenization;
an ware

(3) Storage fecilitios and locations.

§ 1400.3 Sources of assassination eecords
and additional records and information.

Assassination records and additionat
técords and information mey be located ..
at, or under the control of, without
limitation: . “

(a) Agencies, offices, and entities-of
tha executive, logislativo, and fudicial
branches of the federal government;

(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of
the executive, legistative, and judicial
branches of state and governments;

we

repositories and archives of. .

fodera}, state, and local governments,
including presidential libraries;

(d) Record repositories and archives
of universities, libraries, historical
societios, and other similar _

nizations;
fe) Individuals who possess such
records by virtue of service with a
government agency, office, or entity;

( Porsons, including individuals and
corporations, who have obtained such
teeords from sources identified in
paragraphs (a) through (e) of this
section; .

(g) Federal, state, and lacal courts
where such records are being held
undor seal:

oreign governments, > ————

gi Ypes of materlais included.in
Scope of assassination record and
additional records and information. .

Tho torm record {n sssassination
record and additional records and
Information includes, for purposes of
interpreting and implementing the
ARCA:

(4) Papers, maps, and ather
documentary matorial; '

>) Photographs;

(c} Motion pictures;

(d) Sound and video recordings;

(0) Machino readable infarmation in
any form: and .

_—~

i

}

;
‘
13-0000Q

ho

&

 

 

 

 

() Artifacts.

§ 1406.5 Requirement that assassination
records be retoased In their entirety.
' An assassination record shall be
: disclosed in its entizety except for
* portions specifically postpone
pursuant to the grounds for”
postponement of public disclosura af
tecords established in section 6 of the
ARCA, and no jons of an
assassination aati chal ne withheld
from public disclosure solely on
grounds of nou-relevance.

$1400.6 Originals and copies.

(a) For purposes of determining
whother originals or copies of
assassination records may bo made part
of the President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Coliection (the
JFK Records Collection) to be
establishod under the ARCA:

(1) In the case of papers, maps, end
other documentary material, the
Assassination Records Review Board
ithe Board) may determine that e rue
and accurate copy of the original is
sufficient;

{2} tu the case of photographs, the
term sccord means the original negative

{ } available, otherwise, tho earliest
generation print; 9 ©

.' "GPITS cake of motion pictures, the
ferm record means (he camera anginal
ifavailabic, otherwise, the earliest
generation print, <

(4) La the cass of suund and video
recordings, tho term record 8,
original recording, if availabl et
otherwise, the earliest gener

(5) tn the caso of machine-readable
informatiun, the Board may determine
that a true and accurate copy of the
original is sufficient; and

(6) Arufacts meaus the original obj
itsolf.

(b) In cases where a copy, as dofin
in paragraph (a) of this sectionis
authorized by the Board to be included
fn the JFK Records Collection the Board
may. al its discretion, require a certified
copy. In cases where an original, as
dafined in paragraph (a) of this section,
is required for inclusion in the JFK

. Rocords Collection the Board may, at its
discretion, accept the best available
copy.

§1400.7 Additional guidance.

{a) A government agency, office, or
entity includes, for purposes of
interpreting and implementing the

~ ARCA, all departments, agencies,

. offices, divisions, foreign offices,
bureaus, and deliberative budies of any
federal, state, or local government and
includes all inter or intra-agency
working groups, cusumitiees, and

  
  
 

nt

ae particular person also includes any

   
 

Federal Kepistet / Vol. 60, No. 26 / Wedacsday, February 8, 1998 / Proposed Rules

 

 

miectings that passess or created rucords
relating to thé.assassination of President.
Juho F. Kennody.

(b) The inclusiun of ontfacts in the
scope of the term assassination rucord is

-undetstood to apply solely for purpases

of establishing the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Recards
Collection and for fully implementing
the terms of the ARCA and has no direct
or indirect bearing on tho interpretation
or implementation of any other statute
or regulation.

(c) In the case of artifacts deemed to
be assassination records and included in
tha John F, Kennedy Assassination
Records Collecuon, provision to the
public of photographs, drawings, or
similar materials depicting the artifacts
shall be sufficient to comply with the
ARCA‘s requirement that copies of
assassination records be provided to the
public upon request. Other display to or
examination by the public of artifacts in
the Jobn F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection shall occur under
terms and conditions established by the
National Archives snd Records
Administration that are edequato to
preserve and protect the artifacts for
posterity.

(d) The terms and, or, any, oli, and the
plural and singular forms of nouns shall
be understood in theirs broadcast and
ost inclusive sense and shali nat be

   
  

ndorstood ta be terms of limitation.

Any records identified with respect to

records for that person by any other
nama, pseudonym, codeword, symba)
number, cryptonyin or alias. Anyfécord
described with respect to an operation
or program inchides any record
pertaining to that program by any other
name, pseudonyin, codeword, symbol,
number or cryplonym.

§ 1400.8 tmptementing the ARCA—Catalog
of Agsassinatlon Records.

(a) A Catalog of Assassination Records
{COAR) shall be created as the official
listing of all records determined by the
Hoard to meet the definition of
‘assassination record. -

(b) Notice of all decisions to include
records in the COAR will be-published
in the Federal Register within 30 days
of the decision.

{c} In listing records or groups of

. records in the COAK, the Hosrd must

detennine that the record of group of

) records will more likely than uot

enhance, corich, and broaden the

historical secord af the assassination.

   
   
  

Dated: February 3, 1995.
avid G. Marwell,

Executive Direcior, Assossinuton Records
Review Board.

(FR Doc. 95-3112 Filed 2-7-95; 8.45 am}
BILLING CODE 6420-TO-44 .

 

 

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY ;

40 CFR Pans St and 93
[(FAL-6140-9)

Transportation Conformity Rule

Amendments: Transition to the Control
Strategy Period -

AGENGY: Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA)!

ACTION: Proposed rule. 3

 

SUMMARY: This action proposes to
permanently align the timing of cortain
transportation conformity consequences
with the imposition of Ciean Air Act *
highway sanctions. For ozone
Noustlainnent acvas with an incomplete...
15% emissions-rodiction state

_ implementation plen with e protective

finding; incomplete ozone attainment
3% rate-of- progress plan; or finding of
failure to aubmit an ozone attainment!
3% sute-of-progress plan, and areas
whose control strategy implementation
plan for ozone, carbon munoaide,
particulate soatter, or nitrogen diuxide is
disapproved with a protective finding,
tho conformity status of the
nsportetion plan and program would

t lapse as.a result of such failure until
ighway sanctions for such failure are |
effective under other Clean Air Act
sections. .

This action would delay the lapse in
conformity status, which would
otherwise prevent approval of new
high@ay and transit projects, and allow
States more time to prevent the lapse by
submitting complote ozone
implementation plans.

‘A has published in the final rule
soction of this Federal Register a similar
interim final cule which takes effect
immediately and applies for six months.
This proposal would apply the: -
provisions of the interim final rule
permanently.

DATES: Comments on this action must be -
received by March 10, 1995. A public
hesring will be held at 10:30 a.m. on
Pobruary 22, 1995 in Washington, DC.
ADORESSES: Interested parties may

submit written commants (in duplicate, ~
if possible) to: Air and Radiation Docket
and infonnation Center, U.S.
Eavironmental Protection Agency, .
Attention: Docket No:-A-95-02, 401 M
Sweet, SW., Washington, DC 20460.

 
13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

R CSI-0316/95
. 16 February 1995

NOTE FOR: D/IM/ADDA/IS
DCI/IRO
DA/IRO-
DI/IRO
. DO/IRO
DSE&T/IRO
. occ ( Bob Eatinger)

c/ TPECRD
C/RDP/MSG/OIT

FROM: John Pereira .  °*
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records
Proposed Regulations

1. Attached for your review and comment is a. copy of
proposed regulations prepared by the JFK Assassination
Records Review Board. The regulations focus on the
definition of “assassination record’, which is very broad.
The possibility of requiring additional records searches is
raised.

2. The Board plans to discuss the regulations at its
next meeting on 6-7 March, so it would be helpful to give
the Board our input in advance of that meeting. Please _
provide Barry Harrelson (x30292) or me (230373) with your

comments by 1 March. of
SLE LE Son
{Gif eK

John F. Pereira

 

Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY
$04-10331-10062

¢

 

_ New Note

a .
NOTE FOR: | @DCI
FROM: .
DATE: 02/27/95 06:02:46 PM
SUBJECT: JFK Records a

This is in response to your request that | review ASAP the proposed regulations by the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board.

| see Sheryl Walters hand very much in evidence here. | see from the attachment that she is the Board's
Gc ;

Like you, | am very concerned about the breadth of the reg's definitions. The key to keep in.mind is the
statutory authority for the Board. { would argue that the definition of “assassination record" in the statute
(44 U.S.C. section 2107 note; section 3(2) of the Act) is more limited than the reg. The statute defines an
assassination record as one “related” to the assassination of JFK. Thus, when section 1400.2' ‘(d) and (e)
of the reg authorize Board access to organizational charts of governmental agencies and records
necessary and sufficient to describe the agency's records policies and schedules, filing systems and
organization, and storage facilities and locations, { would argue that such information is way too far afield.
There is no way we can allow the Board to have access to this information, which in any event is
prohibited by section 403g from disclosure notwithstanding any other law.

The same issue arises with respect to section 1400.7(d) of the reg that proposes to include in the
definition of record any records for a person by another name or personal identifier. This would appear to
authorize Board access to all information about an agent who may have only been tangentially involved in
the assassination but whose crypt is given in many other unrelated documents about unrelated
operations. Talk about your camets t nose @ under the tent!

Finally, section 1400.5 of ther reg faises an old dog of an issue. The National Seourity Archive (Sheryts .
old employer) has been fighting for a fang time in FOIA litigation that the FOIA refers to.records and that
therefore all information in a responsive record must be released unless otherwise exempt. There is no
FOIA exemption, they argue, for non-responsive material in a record. This is a big problem for muiti-topic

documents, such as the NID. We, of course, argue that agencies are only required to process that which .

is asked for and delete non-responsive material as unrequested. The proposed reg would mean that the
Board would have access to all information in a document about several unrelated operations or events if
that document even mentioned the assassination or ‘anything related to it. Again, the camel's nose.

co [pe /

New Note
13-00000

© .
e @
facsimil .
FRANSMITTAL -
~ to: — John Percira, CIA Historical Review Program

fax #: (703) 243-8343
ve: + ARRB proposed interpretive regulations
date: February 9, 1995 >
pages: 4, including cover sheet.
Dear John: -. “ 4

Following this cover sheet is a courtesy copy of the Assassination
Records Review Board's proposed interpretive regulations, published yesterday in the
Federal Register. The proposed regulations include guidance on interpretation of the
scope of certain provisions of the Assassination Recards Collection Act, including the
tens “assassination record” and “additional records and information.” The Board is -
soliciting comment from all interested parties and would welcome any comments that
the CIA 1 may have. (The comment period is 30 days, the deadline is March 10.)

If you have any questions or need ; any additional informatioti; “please”
don't hesitite co give me a call on my direct line or at our main number, 724-0088.

Sincerely,

<=
cred Walter

General Counsel

     

From the dese of

_ Sreryt L. Water
Gereral Counsel

Assass.inavon Recor Review Board —
4D0 E Street, NW, Second Floor
Washington, D.C. 20530

(202) 724-0815
Fax: (202) 724-0457
 

7506

: (B) For dependents of active duly

.

$9.
- (vii) The co;

meinbers in pay grades of E-S and *
above, $25; and,

(C} For cotirees and their dependents,”
$25. .
(vi) The copayment for prescription
drugs per prescription, for a madmum
30-day supply, fs as follows: .

(A) For dopendents of active duty
meomibors in pay grades E-1 through E-
4, $5; :

(B) For dependents of active duty
mombors in pay grades of E~S and
above. $5; and,

- (C) Far retirees and their dependents,

t for ambulance
services is as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades of E-1 through -

2 $10,

(8) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades of E-S and
above, $15;

{C) For retiroas and their dependents,
$20. -

(e) Inpatient cost sharing
sequirements under the Uniform HM
Benefit.—{1) in gencral. ta lieu of usual
CUAMPUS cost sharing requirements
(see § 194.4(f), spomal cost sharing
eoounts ane required. The spucific
requirements shall be uniform and shall
be published as a notice annually by the
Assistant Sucrutary of Defense (Health
Affaire)

(2) Structure of cast sharing. Far
sorvices other than menital illness or
substance use treatmunt, there is 6
nominal copayment for active duty
dependents and for retired members,
dependents of retired members, and
survivors. For inpatient meatal health
and substance use treatment, a separate
per day charge is established.

"| (3) Amount of inpatient cost sharing
{ ia Gscal

uirementis.

year

“1995, the inpatient cost sharing

wirements are aa follows:

i} For acute care admissions and
other non-mental bealth/substance use
treatment admissions, the per diem —
chame fs as follows, with a minimum

of $25 per admission: :

{A) For dependents of active duty
members in pay grades E~1 through E~
4,313;

@) For dependents of active duty
members in pay prades of E~S and
ebovo, $11; end, :

(C) For retirecs and their dependents,

$11.

(ii} For mental healui/substance use
treatment admissions, and for partial
hospitalization services, the per diem
charge is os follows, with e minimum
charge of $25 per edmission: :

(A) For dependents of activa duty
members in pay grades E-1 through E-
4, $20; .

 

(B) For dependents of uctive duty
mombers impay grades of E-5 and.
above, $20; ahd,

(C) For retirees and their dependents,

40.

(} Updotes. The ervoliment fees for
fiscal year 1995 set under paragraph (c}
of this section and the per services
specific dollar amounts for fiscal your
1995 set under paragraphs (di) and (e) of
this section mey be updated for
subsequent years to the extent necessary
to mainteis compliance with statutory
requirements pertaining to government
Costs. This updating does not apply to
cost sharing that is expressed as a
percentage of allowable charges; these
percenteges will remain unchanged.

{g) Applicability of the Uniform HMO
Benefit ta Uniformed Services
Treatment Facilities Managed Care
Programm. The provisions of this section
concerning the Uniform HMO Benefit
shall apply to the Uniformed Services
Treatment Facilides Managed Care
Pro . effective Octoher 1, 1995.
Under that program, non-CHAMPUS
oligubte benoficiaries have the same
payment responsibilities as CHANSPUS-
ehgible beneficiaries.

Dated: February 2, 1995.

LM. Byours,

Alternate OSD Federal Heguster Liauson
Offuer, Depastinent of Gefense. 7
{FR Doc. 05-3038 Filed 2-72-95; 8 45 anuf
@aLLING CODE 6200-04-44

 

 

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW
BOARD

36 CFR Part 1400

Guldance on taterpreting and
‘Implementing the President John F.
K Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY: Assassination Records Review
Board (ARRB).

AGTION: Proposed Interpretive :
regulation.

SUMMARY: The ARRB proposes to issue
segulations providing guidance on the
interpretation of certain terms defined
in and the implementation of the
President John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992. .

OATES: To be considered, comments
must be received on or befare March 10,
19958. .
ADDRESSES: Comments should be
mailed to the Assassination Kecords
Review Board at buU E Sueet, NW.
Second Noor, Washington, D.C. 20530 ur
delivored {n person tu that address

 

 

a) . :
_ Federal Regis(er / Vol. 60, No. 26 / Wednesday. February 8, 1995 / Proposod Rules

 

betweon the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 4:30
p.m., Monday through Friday (eacept
logs} holidays). Comments may also be

” faxed to the Board af (202) 724-0457,

Commoats received may ‘be inspected in ©

the Board’s public § Toom, located
at the eddress shown above, between 10
4.m. and 3 p.m. Monday through Friday
(except legal holidays). Persons wishing
to inspect comments in the Board's
public reading ruom should call the
Board's office beforehand at {202} 724-
0088 for further information. :

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Sheryl L. Walter (Cencrai Counsol),
(202) 724-0088, 7
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION;
Background ~~ >

" The President John F)Konnedy |
Assassination
1992, 44 U.S.C, 2107 note (as amended}
(ARCA), establishod the President John
F. Kennedy Assassination Records -
Colicction (the JFK Collection} at the
National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA). In establishin,
the process for public disclosure of alf *
records roleting ¢ to the gssassination, :
Congress created an independent agency
within the executive branch, the seme
Assassination Records Review Board
(the Board), which consists offive —.

- citizens appointed by the President.

Under the statute, the Board is
empowered to deude “whether « record
constitutes an assassination record.” 44
U.S C 2107 nota, Sec. 7{1)(2(A).
Congress further made clear its intent
that the Board “issee guidance to assist

+ in articulating the scope or universe of

assassination records.” President John
F. Kennedy Assassination
Collection Act of 2992, S.Rep. 102-328,
102d Cong . 2d Sess. (1992) at 21.

In constructing the guidance
set Out here, the Board seeks to _

JFK Collection contain “the most
comprehensive disclosure of records
related to the assassination of Presidont
Kennedy.” Jd. at 18. The Board is also
mindful of Congress‘s instruction that
tho Board apply a “broad and__
encompassing” working definition of
“assassination record” in order to
achieve the goal of assembling the
fullest historical record on this tragic
event in American history and on the
investigauons that were undertaken in-
the assassination’s aftermath. The Board
secognizes thal many agencies have
elreudy begun to organize and review
vecords responsive to the ARCA even’
before the Board was appointed and
began tts work. Nevertheless, the
Board's aim is that this guidance will
afd {n the ultimate sssombly and public

Records Collection Act of —

“Implement congressional intent thatthe —

 
