SECRET

agreed to protect true name and 201 file numbers of assets not previously released.
5} Mark Lane ltem [extract from foreign document]:
1

postponed until 4 June meeting; board would like have a member or its staff confirm the existence of the
document and ensure that it contains no other JFK assassination related information.

6} Carlos Tepedino [CIA asset! key figure in AMLASH-Cubela plot to kill Castro/true name and role in story has
been publicly known for years):

1
voted to release his name in the 1967 IG Report on Plots Against Castro and other JFK collection documents
The\Stone/Golitsyn issue was pulled from the agencd and will be addressed at the next meeting (4 June).
\
This was a very successful maeting from the Agency's perspective. The loss en Tepedino was not unexpected. Given what is
in the public domain, the Agency has not been able to make a persuasive argument to protect his name in the three years Tepedino has

been at issue. Thanks to all who assisted in preparing for the meeting, and especially tol and| who prepared the
issue and talking point papers that carried the day. 7

 

|

Ce:

SECRET
a SECRET

 

 

 

 

 

 

ch Bys0611637
CL REASOR: Section 1.5 6
DECL ow: XT
onv Fan: HUM 4-82
15 May 1998
MEMORANDUM FOR: Lee §. Strickland @ DA
Fredrick G. Wickham @ DO
William H. McNair @ DO
Becky L. Rant @ DA
| @ DST
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
SUBJECT: ARRB Meeting 13 May 1998 -- Results
REFERENCE: Lotus note dated 8 May - ARRB Meeting 12-13 May 1998

a The JFK Board addressed six Agency issues at the 13 May meeting. The Agency's proposals prevailed in four of the six issues
~@f-ene-and one issue was tabled for further discussion. The Board made the following determinations:

1) Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses:
accepted our proposal to postpone release of specific information until 2017 and use generic substitute language.

2)" LITAMIL-S [CIA penetration of Cuban Embassy in Mexico Citylconsidered a "key player” in the Oswald-Mexice
City story: * . : of

agreed to continue to protect the full crypt and delay the release of additional documents {201 file) until his death.
They set an annual review date on the documents; the Agency will need to advise NARA annually on his status.

cs.
3) Richard Gibson | member of Fair Play for Cuba Committee during early 60'siconsidered a “key player in
Oswald's story

 

 

 

 

 

 

4} AMTRUNK Assets (AMTRUNK was an early 1960's anti-Cuban operation; most of the details of the operation
including crypts have been previously released):

SECRET
13-00000

“aMAY 4 "98 u12:55PM

 

: | After the report about the "OSWALD noted.. chad appeared |

~~ in the press, the report of a special House of | “
Representatives Commission investigating the assassinations
of a, KENNEDY and Martin Luther KING‘was published in the
us. | This. report spoke of "new evidence" that the Commission
had obtained regarding the KENNEDY assassination. Coligress:
decided to extend the functioning of this House of 7
Representatives Commission for another two yeara.

In April 1977 the KGB informed the Central committee of .
the CPSU that it would take additional measures to promote
theories regarding the participation of the American special

‘sexvices in a political conspiracy directed against 7 ima
President KENNEDY.

3 A
The| | Disinformation Service made a point. of commenting .
on every significant world event and interpreting it through

its ‘own prigm. The following operations continued: the
"Arlington" operation, dealing with CIA participation in

: organizing President KENNEDY's assasaination.
13-00000

 

SECQED.GENGESIVE

activity that was advantageous to the Communists, he was
doing thig not without profit to himself, and sought ‘to
achieve persohal popularity and become @ national figure.

Other investigators and KENNEDY agaassination buffs.
were supplied by the KGB not only with money, but also with
circumstantial evidence that made the affair appear to bea
well-concealed political conspiracy. .

On 18 August 1975 photocopies of a note from Lee Harvey
OSWALD, prepared at Center, were sent from Mexico-to three
American citizens who were independent investigatorg.of the
eircumatancea of President KENNEDY's murder. The dontent, of
the note was as followa: 7.

"@ Novehber 1963. . |

Dear Mr. HUNT, I would like to receive information about my .
position. I only want information. I propose that we meet
and discuss thie matter thoroughly before any steps are

taken by me or by someone else. Thank you, Lee Harvey

OSWALD. 4 .

The conception of this active measure, codenamed
"Arlington," was based on the uee of an assassination theory
that was widespread in the US, according to which theory
Howard HUNT, a former CIA employee who was convicted in 1974
dn connection with the Watergate affair, participated in ~
1963 in organizing a plot, the victim of which was President

KENNEDY.

The note given above was composed using individual
phrases and expressions taken. from letters written by OSWALD
during his stay in the USSR; the note was written in
OSWALD's handwriting on a scrap of the writing paper that
OSWALD uged in Texas. This note was on-two ‘occasions -
subjected to graphological and chronological examination
*for authenticity" by the Third Section of the KGB's OTU
(Operational-Technical Directorate].

OSWALD's note was accompanied by a another note: |

; “Sir; At one time Mr. KELLY from the FBI received from
me a document which, in my opinion, will help shed light on
the circumstances surrounding the murder of President
KENNEDY. ° Since KELLY has to date not done anything with
this document, I, fearing the worst, and forced to disappear
for a time. Knowing that you are engaged in an independent
investigation of the President's murder, I am gending you a
copy of the document. With best wishes, Youra, P.3.*
13-00000

” away a4 '9a J12:54PM

 SEGRED-<GHNSLPIVE®

It was intended that the peraon who received the
photocopy of the OSWALD note would request that FBI Director
KELLY ‘produce the original note. KELLY, naturally, would ;

‘deny that he had received such a note, and this would >

encourage the davestigator é@éven more to obtain the desired
document.

; The note was gent to: Harold “WEISBERG, the author of
several books about the KENNEDY assassination that rejected
the official version put out by the Warren Commission,
argued for the existence of a political conspiracy, and
investigated OSWALD's ties to the apecial services; Dan
JONES, the editor of the Midlothian Mirror newspaper, ‘who
had investigated the assasgination from the.point of aViewiot
a conspiracy; ‘and Howard HOFMAN (possibly HOFFMAN], and

histori from Philadelphia who had investigated the KENNEDY

-assassination and cast doubt upon the conclusions of the

Warren Commission.

The documentary operation tArlington" wad carried out
in such a way as to fuel [the flames of suspicion] with.
fresh news and to expose the participation of the American
special services in the liquidation of KENNEDY. ;

At the beginning of March 1977 the first reference to
the "previously unknown note from Lee Harvey OSWALD"
appeared in the American preas. The Minister of Justice
{sic--i.e., Attorney General] announced that it was
“impossible to determine through laboratory testing whether —
the letter waa authentic or fabricated." However, at the
beginning of April there appeared in the New York Times an
official report: by three handwriting experts, who concluded
that “the note dated 08 November 1963 was written by Lee
Harvey OSWALD." The authenticity of the OSWALD note was
algo reinforced by a reference to the testimony of Lee
Harvey's widow, Marina. American newspapers, however, did
not tie OSWALD to the HUNT who had formerly worked for the
CIA, bué rather to his namesake, HUNT, who was a deceased
Texas oil millionaire.

. he FCD's disinformation service believed that OSWALD's
connection with HUNT the millionaire, rather than with’ HUNT,
the CIA officer, was purposely played up in the American
press in order to divert public attention from OSWALD's

contacts with the special services. In February Howard HUNT

was unexpectedly released from prison.on 10,000 dollars
bail, which had been posted for him by “unknown persons."
Newspapers emphasized the fact that "KELLY, the current FBI
Director, who had received the original document, had
concealed it from the public and had not circulated it."
13-00000

« EN FULL 21 June 1996

Pa

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

FROM: ' Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group
SUBJECT: JFK Board request to FBI re Mark. Lane
REFERENCE: . Additional Information Request No. “Pt, 312

\ _dtd. 8 April 1996 (attached)
1. The staff of the Assassination Record Review Board
(JFK Board) has requested access to FBI files on Mark Lane
(see reference). The attached “ODYSSEY” document was found
in the FBI's Mark Lane file; the FBI has denied access to
the document periding a response from the CIA.

,

2. This is a request for access only. According to
the FBI, no documents in the Mark Lane files have not been
designated “Assassination Records” to date. Please advise
“on the sensitivity of the “Odyssey” project and what
restriction, if any, would be placed on access to the
attached document.

3. We would appreciate your response by 5 July as to
granting access to the document. If you have questions you
can contact me at.extension 30292.

 

Attachments: As stated

ch By; 6116379
CL REASON: 1.5¢
DECL On: Xl
DRV FROM:

esiCRET
04-40332-10004

*
wy. . : i

JUIN SEO i spe woe aes . . fue ver LOLS Pete
‘

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW « 2nd Floor + Washington, DC.20530
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202),724-0457

 

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
April 8, 1996 [RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT
HAND DELIVERED me
’ Mr. Kevin OBrien
Chief, FOI/PA Section
Federal Bureau of Investigation
- . 10th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20535
Re: Additional Information Request No. FBI-12 (Mark Lane) .

Dear Kevin:

The ARRB staff requests access to review references to Mark Lane or the Citizens
Committee of Inquiry in the files of FBI Headquarters and the New York field office for
the time from November 1963 to date. This request includes, but is not limited to, any
communications involving Mr. Lane intercepted via electronic surveillance. In the
event that records responsive to this request have already been transmitted to the JFK
Collection, or have already been identified for processing under the JFK Act, please so
advise.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.
Sincerely 9 yours,

one

David G. Marwell : .
Executive Director

 

Baaro Memeens: Johan A. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit t. Hall + William L. Joyce * AnnsaK. Nelson
Execurive Oraector: David G. Marwell
13-00000

a 4 .
CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL 5-07-98
2000

ra

Jeremy,

Attached is a copy of the Mark Lane item. The source
statement was added at the request of the Foreign
government. The, rest of this item is a copy of the text of
the relevant portions of the document. I have alerted
Linda that you will be calling. ;

Barry

an
13-00000

“tay a4 ’9a “12:52PM P.2

SECRET SENSHREYE™

The source of the following information a Foreign,
Government which specifically requested not be identified.

ACTIVE MEASURES

The KGB exerted a positive influence on the US in order
to overcome the financial crisis facing the UN. In January
1965 an operations officer laid out the Soviet point of view
in a conversation with a. First Secretary at the US. Embassy:
in Moscow, and the New York Residency expressed these same.
views to American newspaper correspondents and to UN | +
representatives of a number of countries. On 04 February an ,
agent in Moscow succeeded in.getting prepared information to -
the American Ambassador. ‘These actiona brought about: a 7.
change in the UN's position regarding this financial problem
and pushed the American delegation to reach a compromise. .

Mark LANE ig well known aa a person with close ties’ to
Democratic Party circles in the US: He. holds liberal. views
on a number of-current American political problems, and has
undertaken to conduct his own private investigation of the
circumstances surrounding the murder of J. KENNEDY. This
coincided with the interesta of the KGB, and the New York
Residency, through a trusted contact, passed LANE 1500
dollars for. his work on a book, and 500 dollars for a trip

' to Europe in connection with the investigation he was
conducting. This trusted contact. of the Residency waa a
close friend of LANE's. LANE was not told who was financing —
his work, but he might have bean able to guess; the US:
special services might also have known about this, if LANE
was under observation at thia time. While in Europe in°
1964, he wanted to visit Moscow and acquaint the authorities
there with the revealing materiala. he had regarding the .
KENNEDY murder. The authorities took into consideration the
sensitive nature of LANE's investigative activities and did
not wish to enter into difficulties with the US; LANE's trip
was therefore tactfully postponed indefinitely. Trusted :
contacts from among Soviet journalists “met with LANE, and
beginning in 1969 Borovik maintained regular contact with
him. LANE onde again expressed to Borovik hia desire to |
visit Moscow and show the authorities there the film that he
had put together, which discredited the official version of
the President's murder. Once again he was delicately told
that the time was not right for such a trip, since the
American government might begin a alander campaign against
him in connection with his involvement in the anti-war
movement. American Communists who were-in Moscow in 1971
expressed the opinion that, although LANE was engaged in
