104-10265-10074

 

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination’
Records Collection Act‘of 1992 | . .
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53217 6/20/17

20 March 1960
(dictated 28 March)

"MEMORANDUM FOR THE 14:cORD ‘

- SUBJECT: Contact vith Mr. Willtad paviey in Mtant, 21 Marek: 1%0
Time, 1°20 hours; Mr. Pawley's Office

. 1. Subject wns contacted at the expresa request of Chief, WHD. The
following items of uperational !mportance were covered:

a. Final ‘etaile for a strategy meeting tnvolving Chief. wHD.
CITASTE, Mr. Favley, an? Chtef. Branch 4 vere discunred. Tt wag . :
agreed that ‘he croup would convene the second and third of April a
at Hr. Paviley's Miami home. Further cetatle and the arenta were no‘
diserwsed other tran to say that principal emphasia would he oa
reviewing wha! work could be cone throughowt the hemtsphere an4 we wean
public opinion on the pending operation egainst CASTRO. . .

b. Mr. Pawley was told that the time had arrived for carefy)
ecordination of all activities: that permission had been crante?
‘for an all-out operation: a government in exile will be formed poset
hastes that the acceptable non -BATISTA groups will be put {nto con- ;
‘tact with each other almost immedtately3 and that Mr. Pawle‘s. contacts ~
“RUBIO Padilla, will figure prominently in thie effort. Br. Pauley toa th
suggested, and it was agreed, that immediate yee should be made *

‘for the exfiltration of RUBIO from Habana. - |.

 

 

. me. It was carefully explained to Mr. ae that any action

_ involving exiles now should .b2 most carefully ‘coordinated with

Chief, WHD and Cte, | Branch 4 to avoid any flaps. - He agreed to this
- arrangement. .

" @ Mr. Pawley passed to chter, Branch 4 some very sensitive information: ~
 eoncertiing the: Dominican Republic. He requested this information not be passed -
beyond CIA until he had the opportunity to give this information directly to ~ .
Viee President Nixon. In point of fact, he initia’ said he didnt want the

information passed on to Chief, WHD. Chief, Branch 4 replied that he could not: .
agree to this arrangewent since he was ‘obligated to pass the. information on. . _
Chief, Branch 4 said, hovever, in view of the fact he was not returning to oot . -
Washington until 22 darch, he could not pass the information on prior to that ae ~

 

   

  
 

 

  

time. Nr, Pawley said he would relay the information himself before that date,

 

_ 96 the question was settled amicably, As it turned out, Chief, WHD had already oo, : . : a
received the informtion via another channel by the time Chief, Branch h had . 2 e |
returned to Washington. an:

: . 2 Wy lO j

J. Dd Esterline

c/w ss el 77370

Distribution:
1 + WHS Meno File oeGRET

1 + gudsect File . .

Satan abptinet er tS
