13-00000

- pénetration of the Cuban Embassy. Again Mro Wallach ~~

 

5

He gave two examples. of this. One was the fact that the:
Mexican Government security contact on the case. ~
was the He said, _and Mr.
Wallach agreed, this was obviously a m

be. protected. The second. case was the

 

 

 

agreed.

Chief, ‘CI - Mr. Kalaris then suggested that the answer a
might very well be for the Senate Committee review officers

’ to work with the original file with the exception of those

particularly sensitive items which would either be steri-
lized or summarized. Mr. Kalaris added that to establish
the sensitivity of these items he would be willing for

the sterilizations/summarizations to be spot. checked against
the originals by the Senate reviewers.

Chief Counsel - Mr. Wallach conferred with his colleagues
and then agreed that this would be acceptable. He did
inquire as to approximately how many such items there would
be. He’ was informed by Mr. Kalaris that it was somewhat
difficult to access but that there should not. be more than
100 such items.

Chief Counsel - Mr. Wallach commented that it would be
necessary for his people to take notes, but he would agree
that. these notes not be taken from the building. The ;
purpose of the notes is. simply to allow the reviewers. to
keep track of where they have been and what they have seen.
It was agreed at a minimum that their notes would be ‘checked
with us.

Chief, CI - At this point Mr. Kalaris called Mr. Blee and

: requested approval of the above procedure. Mr. Blee

concurred.

Chief Counsel - Mr. Wallach commented that his neople would
tab those sterilized or summarized items which they wanted
‘to discuss and we would confer with them on those points.

 
 

$04-10310-10118)

D PER eRe f

iv.

30 October 1975 -

MEMORANDUM FOR ‘THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Chief, éL Meeting. with Mr. Paul. Wallach, Chief

Counsel of Senate Select Committee: on Intel-
ligence: .

This meeting occurred on Wednesday, 29 October 1975
as a result of concern on the.part of Senate Select -
Committee officers that the Agency.:was not forthcoming
with. file material related to thé Lee Harvey Oswald case,
i.e., ‘the assassination of President. Kennedy. The
following points | were made by ‘the principals -as indicated.

‘Chief; re To open ‘the meeting ‘Mr. Kalaris made it.clear

that the Agency is anxious to demonstrate that we have

nothing to hide and that all pertinent material was made

available to the Warren Commission. He added that the
procedure for making material available to the Senate
Staff posed certain problems with regard to sources,
methods and liaison, which were delaying the turnover of
material. He then presented several examples of the
sanitization process in-which cables. taken directly from
the 201 file were edited so that all evidence of: source,
method and liaison information was removed.

Chief Counsel .- As. an opening reply Mr. Wallach stated

that his position was that he considered that the Senate
Committee should have the same access as the Rockefeller
Commission. He added that in his discussions with several
senators on his committee they had mentioned reports that
a Rockefeller reviewing official by the name of Belin who
had had access to the original file,had appeared on several
talk shows and was going to write a book based on his
review of Agency holdings on the Oswald case.

Chief, CI - Mr. Kalaris then pointed out that there were
certain particularly sensitive aspects of the material
which could not be released for use outside of the building.

AT

[ CONECENTIAL | CL BY 064737
13-00000

 

Comment

 

Mr. ‘Wallach’ mentioned-'that Ms, Proctor ‘(@pr) is a
family. friend and he -

 
 
 

   

; “ret
Monday: to start reviewing files. ‘and hat:we- would have. .
at least 15. volumes: ready for them
call on Friday to confirm our Teadiness.

 

Oe

‘Robert G. Wali
Deputy. Chief, CI/0G

ce: Chief, cr. wu egw gute lee -
. ADDO an . : oe - ee a}
SA/DDO : ;
Review Staff - Walt Elder

 

M ‘Wallach was to’
