 

[oa t01d0-10429 ' é .

tip IU FERNAL wee ONLY y | | res C7 ye

. an f ; ‘

AQREINEATT
cere 1A! , -
= 2G Kuabdeby,

?7- 0007/26

  

   

 

Monday - 2 May 1977

24. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff
Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and set up a meeting
forhimwithl «PC /CCS, at 11:00 a.m. on 3 April to discuss
a story regarding Agency cover placements which may appear shortly
in the Chicago Sun Times.

; Ialso asked Miller if there was any remaining assistance the
Agency could provide on the matter of a briefcase temporarily lost by
one member of the Committee staff and Miller said he thought not.

25. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Stan
Taylor, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who referenced
one answer provided by the Agency to the supplemental questions
submitted by the Committee regarding Agency activities in Micronesia.
Taylor thought that the documents referenced in this answer might help
in convincing the Committee to delete the most offensive sentence in the
interim report. I promised to bring the materials to Taylor the following
morning. :

26, (Unclassified - GLC) LIAISON Steve Fallis, House Select
Committee on Assassinations staff, called in follow-up of his calf oie.
Friday ConceFuing-veeurity-clearanves-and related matters. I told him
that Mr. Doug Cummins would be in touch with him today, after he
has talked with our Security people. oe

27. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Called Sam Hoskinson, "tet
National Security Council staff, to check on the President's contacts
with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on the Micronesia
statement. He confirmed that the President had talked with
Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) on Friday afternoon and the
Chairman had indicated that the Committee would hold off any action
on the statement until Chairman Inouye returned to Washington and the
Committee meets on Tuesday. At that time, the matter will be brought
before the full Committee again. Hoskinson said the President was also
considering calling Senator Gary Hart (D., Colo.) on the matter.

;874¢/

 

|

 
