14-00000

      

, . . SECRET
NO POREIGS DISSEN

eo - 5a

acquired by source through personal correspondence received
from Cuba),

PEREZ Friman personally accused source of presiding an anti-
Castro meeting, and source was arrestcd on 26 November 1959,
The prosecttor askcd for a 24 year imprisonment..sentence

during the trial held in Vay 1960, but source was acquitted.

 

PEREZ Friman also accused source's daughters in January 1960

. of “lack of respect." Ke made one of these accusations in
: co, Gibara and. the other in H@ig@rn.so that there vould be a
De double order of arrest against thea. ,
b. The second source said that Earle PEREZ Fritman was Fnown by

the nickname. “El Honitillo" ‘something like “Pretty Boy'7 in
Gibara and in tne Holguin Institute of Secondary Education.

a One day PEREZ Friman vent Co source’sS home in Gibara, Oriente

: ’ Provance, commandeered a station wagon and took it to the
Rebel Army Post. saying that ne (PEREZ Friman) vas the one
vho gave orders. This station wagon was gradually dismantled

in this Rebel Army Post.

According to source, as of the time of his departure from
Cuba, PEREZ Friman was a supporter of the regime.

Source has nevs that PEREZ Franan vas given a scholarship to
take a diplomatic course and that he was studying English,

7. &«dt was reported in a document dated 11 October 196° that Earle

PEREZ Friman. Cuban intelligence chief in Montevideo, vill he
leaving Montevideo for Cuba soon although he has not yct received

his passage fare; he is, however, no longer working. Eduardo
HERNANDEZ Gispert, Cuban Cultural Attache, has taken over PEREZ‘
functions in the Embassy.

SECRET
\O FOREIGN DISSEM
 

  

 

SECRET |
NO FOREIGN DISSE.
~2-

stations were suspended in order that a daiage assessment could
be made. It was concluded that PEREZ had probably identified atl

‘persons whom he knew, that he had been providing information on

. regular basis concerning all. that he had been doing and, asa

    

result, ail desk officers at the Cibsan intelligence servi
headquarters. should be informed so that ‘precaution could. taken
for the fiiture. On 17. April 1964:a meeting of. all ‘respons ble

‘desk officers in the DGI was called to discuss ‘the foregoing

i Ree

case and other’ ‘allied ‘matters.

At the xforénent toned. meeting, ‘the following. topics were ‘discussed:
\

a. The communication system. and the security of every officer a
assigned abroad. . . 1

b, The need for suspending shipment of ‘arms and explosives | untal
further notice (this. was doné at once), i

 

c. Specifically; the sending of a shipaent of explosives to
Mexico was suspended. . :

‘d. Orders were issued that, aside from messages, ‘only ‘funds

necessary to’ conduct’ operations should be sent abroad,

Just prior to 21. April 1964 the suspension’ of operations, as
mentioned above, was lifted and communications and operations

continued in a normal fashion.

PEREZ continued to reamin in asylum dnd the DGI concluded that
the asylum had been authorized by $hg Yryspayap government prior
to PEREZ' having left the country. sate

Headquarters Comments.

In a document dated 15 February 1963 it was reported that one’
Earl PEREZ Freidman, presumably identical with Earle PEREZ
Friman, a Cuban, arrived in Montevideo about 16 Ja uary 1963.

He was working at the Cuban Embassy and was reported to possibly
be the replacement for Isaac ORRANTIA, chief of the G-2 section,

A report dated 7 May 1963 stated that Earle PEREZ Friman was an
attache at the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo. He reportedly

.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM : L
 

  

:
H
i
i
i

 

CENTRAL INTELUGENC E AGENCY

 
 

tna Nagorenation atecting the Makes! Devens of he Catted States within the erantag of the Reptonige Lawn Tite
ood CR ene enamine a eerste cee any manner to an uusuthcetaerd permoa 6 prommond ty ts.

SECRET
we FCREIGN DISSEM

 

country Cuba ; REPORT NO. cscr- 316/00008-64
‘sdwect  Barle PEREZ Frizan pare ist «=~ 7 July 1964
(pseudonym 'GUALTERIO”) : : oo
NO. PAGES 5 mm
REFERENCES _ Ae ,
: eT Les
Backgre tN Po Cia
oatecr = «1: 964 ‘Ground Us
mr > Not Reece Only
PACE & «© Washington, D.C. Ochs
- DATE ACQ. June 1964- : FIELD REPORT-RO— : ;

THIS i$ UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GkarinGsS Af€ DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE:

 

  

source A former Cuban IS officer stio“served with the Cuban a
Intelligence Service until April 1964, : . ?

Headquarters Comment. The following rcport is one of
Q Series containing personality information provided by
the source and includes supplemental information from the

records of thas Agency.

1. Earle PEREZ Friman, pseudonym "GUALTERIO," was, until *
recently, the chief-of the Direccion Gencral de Inteligencia 4
(OGI - General Directorate of intelligence) in Uruguay. On
his return to Cuba, PERBZ was suspected by Cuban intelligence
of having been recruited by the United States or the
Uruguayans and shile. the investigation was being conducted .
PEREZ resided at the Hotel Presidente in Habana. Doubts
concerning him were caused in part by the fact that he
appeared to be laving beyord has salary both in Uruguay and
in his previous post ‘unknowa)d. This led to a discreet
investigation on the part of the Cuban intelligence community :
and after the files had been reviewed and a partial ot
investigation conducted, the Cuban intelligence service
decided to interview PEREZ. It was discovered, however, that
he had already left the notel and had received asylum in the
Uruguayan Eebassy; this was about ll April 1964, As a result

' of the discovery of FEREZ* asylum, al! communications from the
headquarters of the Cuban intelligence service to field

SECRET. . 5
SO FOREIGN DISSE ~ 4
eas 3

Enctedng tem mete 2

Sorengrotog wen 1

 

 

 

4 [ STATE DIA ARMY [Navy Tae. UNSA TRAGRRXK Toca Z
REP CINCEANT CiNCsd = Ixd>
‘ : 2 $$

(Note: Field Sstribviton indicated by “27.

 

  

 

  

 

PLT NO PROJECT

 

 
  

 

 

MSR ti (AMMUG-1} Qq

 

 

     

 

WH/SA7CT (G4 CT RDA —— ial ol SCL=216/0009-

 

   

 

nave fy ~The ane oe au

WH/SA T CV). BE DT (2). Cr 4 bea
 

wrt, . SECRET
NO YOREIGN BESSEN

 

~ 3s

aie

arrived in Montevideo in January 1968 and curricd Cuban diplomatic
‘passport ‘number 6374; he was described as beim single and
-residing.at Boulevard Artigan F591, apartment so2.

+ -9.. Ta a document dated 15 May 1962 Earle PEREZ Eriman was reported
to be either the chief or deputy chicf of the Cuban intelligence
‘ service section of the Cuban Erbassy. in Montevideo.

| 4. The following biographic information on Farle PEREZ Friman, dated .
aan 3 June 1962, was given to a representative of this. Agency by a , .

a ‘Cuban defector:

_t Earle PEREZ Friman, Cuban intelligence scrvice chief at
. the Cuban Embassy in Montevideo, was born approximately _

1940 in Oriente, Cuba. He is single, immature, full of”

Communist theory, does not drink, likes girls and goes

vith an unknown Uruguayan blonde. He is jovial and very. 7 .

popular. PEREZ is shert, chubby, young looking and has

 

: 7 a-medium complexion, He has u Limited cducation and is
' not-cultured, but is snooth. PEREZ is the only officer
_t . at the Embassy who deals directly with the Uruguayan ~ _. !

Foreign Ministry.

5. The following information, dated 27 Junc 1963, was received by a
i representative of this Agency from a group of Cuban cmigre's
trained in the techniques of information collection and tho have

provided useful reports for tuo years:

a, In 1960, Earle PEREZ Friman vas emploved delivering milk
‘ for a dairy which was owned by his father, (fmu) PEREZ
Martinez, in Gibara, Oriente Province, Cuba. PEREZ vas
. -@ great supporter of the Castro regime, u member of the
militia, and a Communist indoctrinator (sic).

b. PEREZ’ mother, Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, aka "Pepa," was a
staunch supporter of Marxist theories, na Comrunist
indoctrinator (sic), a member of the militia and the chief
of a defense committee, Sne resides in Cibara, She was born
about 19223, is five feet five inches tall, veighs about 140
pounds, has light brown hair and is attractive.

ce. Other members of PEREZ' family include the following: his

' maternal grandfather, Ruperto FRIMAN Sarayaidi, an individual

SECRET — ; ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSEM ,
 

 

 

“who enjoys benefits from the Communist regime, A maternal

SECRE T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-4@-
uncle,..Ruperto FRIMAN Exposito, who was administrator of the

Gibara customs house in 1959 and since then has operated
his own printing shop in Gibara., A maternal uncle, Jose

- FRIMAN Exposito, who’ workéd as an accountant for the Gibara
‘uTTeTpal government prior to ‘the advent of the Castro

regime.

' ‘The follawing information was received from the same group which

reported the information in paragraph 5 above, they received the
information: from two untested Cuban sources. who, arrived ‘in the -

United States in 1961.

The first source said that PEREZ Friman’ used to live on

J, Aguero St. corner of Carlos M. de Cespedes St., Gibara,
Oriente Province. His parents are Regino PEREZ (mat. unk.)
and Josefa FRIMAN Exposito, both of vhom were born in

-approximately 1918. Josefa FRIMAN Exposito was the
President of a. Defense Committee and a militiawoman..

: PEREZ. Friman: was born in approximately 1941, ts white, has ro
‘a-Fosy complexion, is approximately five feet five inches ,

tall, with Light brown hair and eyes, a Strong, athletic
build, and his movements are fast.

He went to grammar school in the “Jose Marti" private school, ,
and up to 4th year of high school in the Holguin Institute

of Secondary Education, Oriente province. In April 1962 he -
vas given a scholarship to study the diplomatic career in .
Habana (source acquired this information in a letter from.

Cuba from one of his daughters who is now in Cuba).

To the best of source’s recollection, PEREZ Friman's best
friends vho share his political ideas are: Captain Luis
PINEDA Perez, now a Rebel Army Major assigned to the DTI in
Habana; Emiljo GONZALEZ Sablon, ‘a G-2 member, teacher, and
leader of the 26th of July House; Pablo Juan FERNANDEZ (mat.

unk.), who made a trip to the USSR together with a fer
Cuban artists, including Odalis FUENTES (mat. unk.).

PEREZ Friman'is the person who used to sign the I.D. Cards
of militiamen from Gibara until 14 April 62 (information

SECRET oA
NO FOREIGN DISSEM poof

 
