13-00000

 

 

 

 

ree Monroe. ‘SCABTATT “the “foes t “speaker, “Baid that’ the Movement °

 

    
  
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
    
   
   
 
  
 

   

with whom they ¢ come An contact and “to organise groups. | With!

 

{4) NOPT activities were also noted during the .
monty at Green Bottom im Clarendon, in Braes Riverand Middle ~
Quarters in St. Zk Blizabeth, - -and im Fort Morant and: Cambridge ~
ELiLl in Sts Thomas s.-Tiese activities included meetings, '
vreeruiting drives, distribution of Literature and, baptiome
in the MCPT. ~

 

J. Ethiopian Worda Faderation Incorporsted -— About.
30 persons attended a mesting of thé Ethiopian World = 5
Faderation insorporsted (ewer) which was hald at Ta Corona’
Hell, 71 North Street, on 18 April. : Haughton BROWN stated
that the fund-raising drive would continue in the Corporate a
drea in an effort to increase the amount of £760 already.
nollected to sand a delegation to Africa. He said that “the ©
vedere’ ion had been granted permission to stage a march..in .

gston on 21 April. . Thies would terminate at ia Corona we
HalL where a concert would be held as part. of the celefration
40 mark thse 23r4 Avniversary of Haile. SHLASSIS's relen:

 

Ke Bthiopian Orthodox Choreh. (B00) |

(2)

own Road recently, and attended by’ about 25 persona, Be

wae on the verge of collapsing because members of the Cult”
were nok firm enough with the Government. about. the question
of repatriation. He suggested that they should. organise -
nacches in an affort to force the Government to send them °
yack to Africa, and he urged! them to emulate the. American.
fegroes who were fighting for their. freedom. a

(2) SCARINTT said that Dr. 4. Be Douglas. had been :
asked by ¢ gome Rastafarians to become the head of the orgenisati on :
and he was willing to assist them with, their plans.

qh. Universal® ‘Negro Emprovene nt Association (mera)

(1) Copies of ay hesP het issued by. ‘the ‘(unta)” were
founa at the intersection | ‘of Henover/Law Streets, Kingstm
recently, The address. of its office (49 Bast Queen Street)
is that of Christopher: TAWRENCER'’s JAMAICA CONGRESS OF LABOUR
(J0n).. Et is not yet known what, tf Bays “sennection existe:
between the twa- organisations. . . .

M. Nation of Telem (wor)

 

(1) 844 Church Street ~ Members. ‘of the ‘WIESOW. feotion.
oP the NOIxrecently removed from 165H King’ Strest to tha: os
above address. Two meetmgs were held at 844 Church Street
wt which the speakers ,. David WIELSOW- and. Bugene AFPLICE,.
leanounced Ghristianity as taught. by the white man’ .and
nooursged the eudienos to accept ‘the docttine of Isls

got by Blijab MORAMMED who had been “eélled™ te tedeem ©”
the Hack race. . .

 

   
  

  

 

8) a Charles: Street

"(ay During “¢hS month: ‘Bou ‘meetings were “hela. .

L Perey HAYLRS, the boxer, said that he was impressed :

doctrine and had writtan +6 Blijah MOHAMMED askeng@ ~~"
9 to enable him to atudy in one of tha Islan
USA. rrol te V¥ said that only a revol-
stings oa robbingths blade

   
   
  

      

ta Bek CTS ANE i hb aS

 
 

 

          
 
 
    
   
    
 
     
     
   
 
   
 
 
    
 
   
   

        

ad te) a At the meting on 24 April, Ceceil CAMPEELL
o/o Prince Busters. stated that premises 47 Charles Street
belonged to him and he was willing for it to be-used oot
for the assistance of the black race, He calisd for unity ane
among black people and said that his organisation was. fighting
to rule damaica... He told members that they should be prepared
to meet the Rey. SHBRRIZPS X who would soom bea visiting the
Island. (Pield Comment: CAMPBELL has spoken over Kingston |
brosdeasting stethbhn. Radio Jamaios and Radiffusion - RJR. -
Reverend SHSRRIPFTB X. is probably the Arabic organisational
name for Thomas VI8Y,.an American Black Muslim who together
with one Robert FRASIER recently. visited CAMPEELE. | PRAZIGR | :
and VIBW vere seised in. early May by thedamaican. police in
a saidon CAMPESLIE's home which also. netted a quentity of
Blaek Muslim literature.) : :

Ne -“Jamaion Congress of Labour 7

   

 

(1) Christopher TAWABNCR ana. Woke Pusey of the ‘Printera
and Allied Workers Association (FAWA) recently held discussions.
concermg the expansion of the PAWA, and affiliate of the
JcL. (Jamaica Service Comment: . PUSSY is employed by the
fines Printery, but ia umderstood that vamphlets pub out: by
the PAWA are produced at tha. office - 182. tha Eingston and. Ste.
Andrew Corporetion.) fe : wel pes ba?

 

 

€2). LAWERSOR waa “also in. contact with Calvin pucker
William CHARTS and Boy PHILUSERT, and s- joist. letter by the.
sCh and the JAMATCA*COUNEIL oF CONSUMERS - UHLOS. (geen). . :
‘ : famaion, Provgder". :

   
   
   
     
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
  

Le | sel: recently olainea :
eredit fox the first mass union activity ever beld in. Jannica, :
e meeting in commemoration of Dr.. Martin Inther. King, in. 7
January 1968 LAWRENCE was reported .to have been in close:
contact with IBITH and Janet. MoMURRAY, Canadian Communists
visting ameica to aseess the political | situation.)

: O. . “Black Power Movement ‘(aem)

 
  

: -@). During the month; “peveral discussions’ were “held
at 4 Cookhorn tane concerning the BEM"

   

: (2) ‘On. the 5 ana 3 April. discussions’ + were ‘pela’ a
by George VASSBEL om, the. possibility of holding. demonstrations
at the American Bmbaasy to protest against the ‘Gaeassination
of Dr. Martin Duthexs, KING. . VASSEL claimed that there was a
United States oitinzen hiding in Jamaica to escape the draft w

hsd in his possession recording of speeches made by the Isate:
Maleoim X during. 1964. One of these was entitled "The Ballot.
of Bullete",: He atated that KING's death disproved ‘his theory’
of non-violence. and was bringing. to prominence men Like.
Stokely CARMICHAEL and H. Rap BREWN. ~The Gemonatration
suggested by VASSSz- ‘aid: not in the event ‘take place. a

 

(3) About 40 persons including Winston HONROR,
Joseph Saat STIs, Roy JBPFRBY, Teonard SOLOMON and one Ny.

‘SURYVAD,

 

   
   
  

VA “the ‘Ame rioad verarred to above, met at 29 Pourth

ot, french Town (Dallas Coruer), where SURVAD, identizied
as % Black Muslim and a member of the BPH, answered questions
him by the gathering. It was understood that SURYAD
Jamuiea to so solicit support for the BPH in the UGA

iL aa to eatablish a branch here. ‘fhe record "The

os Bullets” was played by SURNAD and recordea by HONROZ.

{4) Ab this meet

becnuse of it

  

; SURYAD anid that he had come
Le-racial population and because it

 
   

i
|
\
\
13-00000

   

3 ro for the rganization. and deliver:

same at 19K Charlies Street. : (Famaioa. Service Comment: . After:

the conference, AUWEB stated that in his. opinion RODNEY ia -

| working for an internetional organisation with the intention™
of establishing a revolutionary movement in Jamaisa end that
he bad sean the potential for a revolution in the NCP... He.
alse thiuks-that RODNSY favours the Chinese /Cuban. form of -

_ Communism). Wield: Comment: Rupert AHWEB is a member of a.

fe DS o. seeret- revolutionary group within tha’ JOU. ) na .

5 (2)3

      
    
 
 
 
    
     
   
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
 

         

 

te a) “5 Waltham Park, Road. “During themonith
weekly meetings were held by tha HCP? at 75 Waltham Park  .- .
Road. Rudolph. GORDON and Roy GREY were the chiet speakers.
Refersnees were made to therecent asasasination of Martin .
luther KING and a warning issued that.the Prime Minister |
should be careful as he might be the next one to be shot. |
{Members | ware encouraged. to. join a: “yartnexr™. of ten shiblings-
weekly ag this would aesist: in the »umoing of the: church),
GORDON stated that, HENRY was gathering - soldiers to V4 ght.
‘the war". He spoke of the inoreased taxes levied on the)
. poor people while certain Civil Servanta kad been given wage
- tuereages and Members, ef Parliament. provided with éntectaine nt
_ @llowances. He referred to the hardskipa endured: ‘by Cubana, :
. onde> BATISTA and preised Fidel CASTRO for what he yas. doing
‘for his countrys. Thesee who were Aeaving Cuba. he accused of
beving a “colonial” mentality. : :

 

   
     
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
   

bastined, fare
839) end the funetion”in houdur of HENRY 's 65th lirthday on.
28 April. The day's. sc@lebration commenced ‘at-atout 11.00 an.
with a pasudo rekigious service conducted. -by HENRY, followed *
. By a march past by ‘the Boys Brigade and” ‘the crowning of
HENRY by Omroy BROWN. =. The crown carried oa black star which:
BROWN said symbolized the BLACK POWSR:MOVEMENT (BPM) of which
HENRY is the Leader, and.that he would 3 veign ‘forever. .- a
In his address; AHVER. said :that it was Blaak ‘Power that would
defend the Black man's rights: in Jameica so. they ‘should: |
support HENRY... Ha wag then ‘presented, with ‘peveral, envelopes
- gontaining. mone, ; so 2

 

       

 

turning back, fox: his: qrork ‘and worth had gained! the recosmitio
-Of the Socialists. in: Jamadice and he. would establish hiss... °%
| Govermment with bombs’ and “gums. He. spoke. of the viotinisatio
of NGPT members by the Governmentand said thsre would bev:
"olood in Jamaica for the Goverzmnent believe: that: they are. “
night®", |The Kingdom of Ged, he said, ia a” “Soclalisde one and
his (ZEWRY's) Kkingdom- will be Like it * offering shéiter . and
slothérig te the poor. He was no longer interested in tha _
OWAPriGa Movement as he and Bis follovers ‘must enjoy .
menities ia Jamaics. He said that he had been sant to’:
1a! er the pear people from their sufferings and Like CASTRO,
is friend, he was determined to deatroy the freech men in
J Loa. Déapite’ the efforts of the Government, HENRY’ Asclaread,
ca would very shortly embrace Communism and nothang could
this. AHWEE stated that HENRY intended to establish a ~<:
ist Government in Jamaica which would look after the
a of those who have bean rejected by the Capiteliat
ent. He emphsaised that all the leading countries
world were Sosialist controlled. The HEP Bekexry is
dg to be doing = flouriahing business, and menbers feat
Livery of bread th out the Island will offer
. opportunity to spread the doctrine to the people

 

 

  

   
   
 
  
    

 

 
 

13-00000

    
     
  
   
    
    
    
   
    
   
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 

      

! it ‘has. been. reliably weported thatt

Mere. Stephen BILD (mother of Robert HITED) of Celebrity Concerts:
is meking arrangements: for the National Ballet of Cuba to perfo.
in Jamaica, : The Cuban Consul participated 3 dn the discussions _
attendant on: thige arrangements - .

  

 

    

 

“(sy SOMANCE - — During the month an amount of £625 was
. received Prom: Cuba . through Barclays Bank for the Cuban. Consulate.
The sum of £533.6.8 waa_oredited to-the Consulate's-Materiak.-
Aceount at the Royal Bank of Canada dnd £291.13.4 to the ~..
' Spesial Account. (Jamaican Service Comment:. This amoulst
has now been eatablished monthly by the Ministry of External
AgPairs in- Havana through. Barclays Bank.)

 

x. | RASTARARTAN Activity

    

4). “Harola LAWRENCE o/e Duckie, ‘self-styled leader
bi the Rastafarians in Havanna~la-Mar, and George MYERS were
the speakers ata meeting organized recently by the Anglican
Brotherhood ‘of. Sti. Andrew ‘in Savanna-le-Mar,.* to which peven. -

and love which thay preached, But Bebyion — “the Weatern. World.
would soon, fall by wiolence and they would then establish
God's Bighteous Lingdom. .MYBRS called for tolerance: and.
reapece for the Rastafarian doctrine. He referred. te: ths
injustices being meted. out to the beether ~ oppression: by |
the Government, brutality by the Police and rejection by...
society _ which. bad! “weanlted in thebretheren developing, a vio

   

. bis wife ‘and ‘ohildaren,.. went to Kemps. Hill, Clarendon,. where
“he held =. private: ‘disevesion with Claudius. HENRY, Edna. HENRY,’
Rupert AHWEB ‘and Keanath. MORGAN. © RODNEY statea that his °.
involvement: with. the Raw. Greation Peacemakers Tabernscile .
(wcee}. depende m7 . i

 

   
  
  
   
 
  

 

International Revolution. . Em his. views the “Colonies”. were
ready for-a revolution and if the’ preasure: is kept’ up ana:
cthe masses trained, cia due" eGurse, Capbealion could ®

  

; ‘{n) It was the opinion of. HENRY: and hia supporters
that with tHe nutes. of able-bodied men in: the organisation,:
8 _cosnessfuk: xevolution ‘gould: ber piaandds ceetaioie tbh.
ato future date. With this in wind, HENRY is néw planning
(to lwunch an active esmpaign throughout: the-Islead and “to.

J meerult ag. many young men ag possible: into the’ movement.

   

fe} MORGAN suggested that as_ many NCP! membera
bis should be enlisted into the Army and the Poltce
they would obtain worthwhile training and valuable

Be apoke of tha need for Literature and said
ALTHSYS% who is employed at the Coban Consulate

Ce,

 
  

fcemie

   

 

 
13-00000

   
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
  
  

- invited “be. visit Liluides Vale when. arrangements for the lecture.
Were completed... .(Jamaica.Service Comment::.. JACKSON,’ “who | -
describes. himself as a Radio Engineem and Sneiological.-

student, Left Jamaica in 1959 for England and spent four
years there. studying Radio end Television Engineering. In
1953 he went to Spain and during 1963-64 made frequent visits
to TAngiers...: 2. Jae “1964 he waa imprisoned in Spain for _.
drug amuggling. He waa deported to Tangiers in. April ‘1965,°
and oventually repatriated to Jamaica on 22 June 1965. He
declered tp be a staan supporter of Communiam and had ©
Communist literature int his possession. He was at that
time close associated with a member of the YOUNG SOCTALTS? .
IS ASUB (ran) who lived. at Linidas Velo.) ee

 

 

“DB. . whe. Jomaios ‘Gouneil for. Human Rights ‘
& .
Ls (3) “the “first issue of the Nowaletter of the .
Jamaica Coueil for Human Rights ( JcHR) was circulated to.
nembers during the month. . This is to bea ‘quarterly 6.
pulication. It wae reported that in additten'to Dr.:M.B.
DOUGLAS and Neel EDWARDS, Mra. Leon BROWN of: the Jamaica |
Teachers! Association and. Edwin. JONES OF T38 NEw wWoRrD-
GROUP (swe) were: comopted. to tha Mamaging Counittee- for: | :
1967/68. At the time of publication of the Newsletter there

ze only about 90 members, and the. total. resources of the
Council were £20.7.3- Copisas.of ths: Constitution and a“:
stetement by tha Council..onm "The Passports. Tasca”: were:
algo cireulated to members. fy. : : : ; to

 

it was: Peer thet. aL ‘special. ‘sub-committee: has been set up.
to investigated the: whole question of passports and the -

an infringement of the citizen's Constitbtional. Righte.. oe
If the Council's lawyers advise that it is worthwhile to te
‘institute such proceedings,. it will be necessary to raise
subatantial fumds to enable. the Council ta sponsor thia
CASE. Members have: been asked, to: give their support. .

 

Be. “the University of the West Indies -

aoe Dee Clive THOMAS ©

    

; : i. “The. Ctiban Consul. was , asked by. Dra “moms
to ascertain: ‘whether. Cuba would be interested in attending
‘the conference: scheduled. ta be held at Mons.in May in order
thet an invitation could be sent ta. hisGovernment.’.’ No- reply
had been received by VELAZQUEZ who promised ta bend a. reminders
and let De. THOMAS-know as scon aa a.reply was received. ‘I+t°
_iea understood that the University proposed. to invite Dr,
Salvador ‘VILASHCA, the Cuban seholear... Dr... THOMAS aaso..:
requested copies of theback issues of the Panorana. Boonomica
books which he had found useful. in the. teaching of economic .
‘problema, . (Ft eid Comment: This conference was tobe known,
as "The Commonwealth Caribbean: Dimensions of Homishericn
Development. tr) ,

 

(2) “fhe Guild of Undergraduates,

oc nene ate vee nL © 25. April Ralph. GONSATARS,. prox Gaasiinis’
ciel Sciences student from St. Vincent (Monthly Report for
ember LO67, para. 1066. refers) was elected President of |
| Of Undergraduates for the academic year 1968/69.
3s also Direct tor of "The University Student Sveaks
tut other uxecutive posts in the

 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

, Civil ‘Liberties: in ‘the Caribbean! was held at 2A. Camp.

- wag-Walter RODNEYS “Soth speakers-referred to the "suppression:

restrictions | on’ him for his opan criticism of its policies. -

from Cg echoslovakia were algo seized.

 
   
    
   
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
     
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
  

 
 

Road, Kingston, by the Department of Extra-Mural Studies
in collaboration. with the POLIZICAL ACADEMY. (Pa). Rey
JOBNSTONE, President of the PA, presided. About thixty~ -
five persons attanded. Edwin JONES, a representative of .
whe MBW WORID GROUP (WG) on the JAMAITCAN COUNCIL FOR .
HUMAN RIGHTS (JcuHR), led the discussion. ‘The other speaker |

 

 

 

of civil liberties" by politicians in the’ Caribbean Telands .
and particularly in Jamaica.. Dr. RODNEY spoke of the
suppression of the black people by the whites and urged thse
black peaple to organize and fight against thia. The .
time hed come he gaid, for black people to rule. Only by
forca could the black peoe of the Caribbean Islands fras
themselves, eply in Cuba were civil Libe ties enjoyed by
the peophe, He recommended that the citizens of Jamaica —
should be armed and trained and taught. to defend civil co,
libertes. Hd condeasmed “Police brutality”. He. criticized .
the seigure passports. by the Government and. in conclusion |-
said that he would not be surprised if the Government Placad

   

: (be) “Among those who. tool part in the
even @iscusdcn were De. Lloyi BARNETT, Dr. Me B. DOUGLAS
Richard JACOBS, Prank GORDON and Wanaton DAVIS... ALL .
condamned. "Police brutality"and the seiaure of passports;
DAVES sai that Jamaicans should resist Polica ‘pruteality. - :
He said that the Govermnent permitted public protest. against

descrimination and suppreasion in fcreign countries, but .
denied the right of Jamaicans ta proton’ against . injuatice
in their: own country. | : :

 

“Subversive Jiiterature

  

op

 

 

  

: (x) ‘Dering the month. lex?” a total of: 57T copies
of Chinese. ‘Literature. arrived -in the Island and eight < copies
wera seized. . ;

 

(2) One hundred copies of Informat don “Bulle tin a

Ge Cuban: Activities

@) Arrival of Cuban Refugees:

 

(a). On T April. at about 9900 ‘hours; ‘a. Cuban
Bi ishing boat arrived ‘at Negril Beach, ‘Hanover with 24 Gubang |
on haurd. . They had left La Sanja de Monte Bordo, nesx. Plays .
TAS Coloradas, Buba on & April. Twexrty three were #efugees
ineluting' four families. The operator of the | peat, Sergi -
BASO PALACIO, who alleged that he was: forced. to make ‘the: trip»
waa handed over te the Cuban Consul. The refugees have asked
politics] asyiiua. pending sdmission to. the ‘United’ Ste tes of:

 

eet wat ee cee ha). “mas. ‘@udan, Diag . Boat, NATACHA,” exeivea. in.
. Sagston. Seom Cuba on 13 April and departed from Montego. Bay
on 14 April. Phe purpose of the visit was to transport to Cuba -
“ bro ght:to Jamaica used by Cuban. refugees.- -The. thse.

aie take aways Sergio BASO PATACTO™ yetaxrnad” tow.
noara the NATACHA, The Cuban Consul, Arnando VELAZQUBZ.,
ed tke boat after its arrival in Kingston and was also.

emt 2: Montego Bay when it departed.

 
  
  
 
  

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

3) Cuban Diplomats ~ Manuel BECHEVARRILA SANCHEA
ax sivea ain ica on 17 April from Mexico and ~”

ei for Hexiwo en route to Cuba. He was met

LALQUES «

  
        

SECRE : aa
No PORETON DISSEM 4 PROCESSING ACTIGN

            
     
 
  
  
  

  

 

“REPORT COVER SHEET. <
BERGHE NO cover sneer SSS
of Spavlons (Kings en) -HIK - 251  [MARKEO FOR INDEXING

BATE OF REPORT: NO INDEXING REQUIRED

2h May 1968 OPS DATA. REPORTED SEPARATELY

ldo PROJECT a —
RUABBE . cs DISSEMINATION :
ne SOURCE CRYPT , - 7 = —_———-

   
      
 
 
    
  

 

 

 

 

/ BPPROVING OFFICER .
-~Jobn Re MEIGS . = RUABBE . :
7 : pene FIELD DISTRIBUTION

         
      
  
 
   

recs OLSSEMINATION

 

 

 

 

 

INTRA» AGENCY

‘Mat & 3 “ . Headquarters
L ~ London.) Oe

EXTRAS AGENCY

     

qs State, Army, Navy
“L - GINGSO (throughs P

  

ISURPLEMENTAL DATA a

EULE TEXE COPY. — DO NOT RELEASE

   

Furssisieaies ariel

 

  
 

 
 

= >

4155

 

 

 
$04-10433-10012

i ue

6.

 

LAS

 

I RECOMMEND:

C)

7)

3

rthexs description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, ete

      

 

SIFLED ~ | | CONFIDENTIAL

 

(C] Top secret
APPEALS REVIEW FORM ; ; . Se
: gcontains ATA 297 __ dated 2 iar mcd
Previousiv denied in toto under ‘exemption(s} — ° . _s«éi a

Serregable portions Previously, veleased under exemption(s)

of . .

Located during the DDO appeals review.

Referred to DDO for review by

 

C
eae Oa

o poe
Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption Cs} ° - of So
( } ADD exemption(s} : ee
( } DROP exemption(s)

 

 
 
  

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under _ Of

) ADD exemption
} DROP exemption(s) vr

 

Release additional information with excised portions ‘exempted under
of

Deny document in teto under cxenption (a) LEMG/2) (sale f] & Fe

Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted ‘under’
. oo, 7 of . os Lee

 

 

> exemptions cited above are being ‘claimed toa protect the following:

Information from a foreign ‘liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship:
Information which would /emem@@ identify the source
Iinfermation pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods
Locations of CIA overseas installations

Location of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name of CIA employee 3

File numbers

 

s

Pseudonyn L)
Cryptonym . ; F yu me
Internal organizational data _ k

Name of FBI agent | . ; ; : ( o

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuals
OTHER :

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

* ~ oF

During the DDO appeal classification review, this document which was

tJ

me
Rae eet ed et

marked as © FCeet ; Wasi: . ot : a

maintained

 

 
 

13-00000_

    
 
 
    
  
      
  

REPORT NO.

   

DATE DISTR. 32 May: 1968

 

sus iee bane

ion Intellisense Report

For April 1969 eg

    

((amaioa, } Kingston 24 Shay 1968 .

aca” “FIELD NO. =

 

 

~ SOURCE

 

 

 

 

he Available ia the ca. . titcery is a. copy ‘oF the
Monthly Report for April 1968 prepared by the Speeial
Branch. of the Jamaiean Boours ty. Service. :

 

  

 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
   
   

eh Kenneth ROWE “has been. dmgoxmea by. Jonny
JANBSY Chairman of the CARTBSRAN OCTOBER CONGHESS (oe) of:
1L5 Huddleston BRosd, London, B.7, that: the COS is affiliated _
with the Campaign Against Racial Digserimination (GARD) - and
was trying to make it s fmilitant massline one”, ROWE. waa
asked ta help by writing articles for the, and to set up a
Seliderity Group or small coumittee to distribute in the .
Caribbean-Latia American region documents that would be gent*. . wal
to him about: "“white-fasoiat" attacks agsinst bleck peocpls_ ot,
Living and verking in England. ROW? was asked to accept an
‘appointment as an Overseas Bditor and/or representative of
CIAAY and. *Paoples Yoice', a publication of CLAAP?: and. to
aend fux- publiestion each month, an artiole.and: news “commentary... ,
/ROWS wae asked * ta say how many sopies he would. require Lor ..
‘sale loeally.*/ (JamaicanSerttee Comment: CLAAP ia. believed -
. to be the Caribbean, latin Amsricen Affairs Publications, =
374 Grays Inn Read, London, W.C.1 (of which JANES is chairann)
the publishers of ‘Carib! magazine which is bammed in: Jamaica
Baward ofe Badie RODNBY, a brother of Dr.. Walter RODNSY, came
to noties 3m 1964 as @ member of the Editorial Board- (Assistan
Editor) of the Carib-Iatin Ameridan Affairs Publications. :
Dr. RODNBY Lived with him in Eondon from 1965-66 and accompanied

 

 
    
  
 
 
 

 

 

joa-a-5/¢

   

 
 

13-0

 
        
   
     
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
  
    
   
 
   
   
  

   
 

bim te neoetings of various extremist groups with which he
(was connected.) ° (Field Comment: Br. Walter Anthony RODNEY??.
. Guyanen,y employee of the University of the West Indies in. .
“Kingston, vasa reported ta bave sconvened 2 meeting of UNI
students on odepus om 13 Pebruary 1968 in connection with -
, revolutionary |e gotivities.) : mo :

  

 

fe) JAMES ‘also forwarded ‘to ROWE a . eirgulas

Is bter, addvesaad” “te FPOWR and the members of the JCWM, by _ wot
the Chaixvman,. AoD.2. HART, and, Secretery, R.W.IBE, of the ~-
October Organising Committee for the WORKING PEOPIB'S PARITY -. .
OF BNGIAND WERE), 458 RarlePield Road, Wandsworth, London, |. ae
S.W. 18, imforming him that on 4 and 5 May a Gongrese of . _
‘Taninist citizens - ef Bngkand and other citisens living, °° -
working and: etudying in Londmn, would be held to inaugurate
the. WPPEY and requesting him to send a delegate from the - -
JOWM and/ or a fmeaternal message of revolutionary greetings
ond golidarity to the Congress. In support of this JAMS
informed ROWE ‘that the members of the WPPE were the only -
white people who had quistly but publicly écoperated with ©
‘and supported the COC, and they and the AFERO-ASTAN LIBERATION.
FRONT (NER) (xvepresenting the tevolutionaries of the national
Liberation movements with headquarters in. London) hed tested. -
and preven the WEEE members to be the only genuine Marxist—.
“- Tesinists in Beiteain.. ROWE was told that it was very... --.
' ievportent and of great urgency to their cause that a message
of solidarity fox the Congress should be sent from the JCWH. - ca
(Jamaica. Service: Comment: A message: of-sclidarity bas been : —:
sent by ROWE. A number of copies of 'Carib’. and. 'The Crusader. -
false: probibit Jamaica). ands. variety ‘of small’ anbi-
; arded te ROWE. yes

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
      
  
 
 
    
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
  

ey ae era 3 thet ‘besause- of his ‘jon ‘ROWE
o devote to meetings, but. he has. been | ; con
making! a. -@bndy of-the Bible in which he haa found certain -

7 passages: dealing. with xevelution which he believes. ha can

co use toe: advantage and has conceived the idea of developing
bis revolutionary movement. along religious Lines,.ags the _
Janaiasn people are more inclined ‘to. support orgenisations .

_ with a. religious flavour. : ,

De ‘cHeaat JAGAN

 

Der . Cedar. JAGAN arrived in? Jamaies by ad ‘from,
7 a. Moxtreal on: ‘Lh April. He was not met: ‘axrival..
Palisedeas-’ “Aixport but was-driven to-the home ef Dr... Clive
BOMAS ‘byt! paasenger who arrived on.the same. aireraft.. Hie os
tha Nelend was. not generally lmown and no informa-
tiex hea. buss: xeseived. that any meeting. or discussion teok -.-
Place... Om 12: ‘Peril De. ‘THOMAS accompanied. him to the. Aixvort,
. and he Lett: Pox Curacao enxcoute to Port~-of-Spain-and Georgetown
(PiekA Commant:: Dr. Clive Yolands THOMAS, a Guyauan, is an |
| extrene Leftistiand a lecturer on eaonamics at the University
' Of the Weert Indios = UWE.) : :

: é. . Illegal Demonatration at “Dhaidas Vale» St.
: ‘Catherine .

 

(2) On 9 April a group of Gitisens in Dluidas.
Yale staged an illegal march in conmnaction with the funeral
ok De, Martin Duther KING. The police hed ditfievukty im
Qtking up the demonstration and subsequently arrested
wo of the leadera, BAsil JACKSON, a son of Councillor
idwin JACESON, and Delroy ESCKEAaRD (eR), & schoolteacher.
208 OF brutality have been made against the Police, and
20 April JACKSON and BSCEPORD consulted Dennis DALY with
ered ime bi assault. Saey book the
ngements for (socialiats’
at an early dake to leehur

 

 

   
     
 
 
 
 

 
