fy

‘[ro4-t02s0-40079 Doe

"D0 Not Neprarins ”

 

on

a

  
 

oo a Cp URN Sia
& RETURN Toe Bach ‘surd Lse On?
; Sackground Use oy ty 90 Not Aeproducss/,

ee

22 July 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT : KIMSEY, Herman

1. On 22 July 1965, nfl nvied the under-
signed that she had received a €a Fou Mr. Kimsey and that

she was concerned inasmuch as he appeared to have up-to-date
information regarding activities within TSD. She will discuss
this with the undersigned in detail at 0900 hours on

23 July 1965. .

2. Mr. Jan Beck, TSD/QDS, was contacted to determine
if he had received calls from Mr. Kimsey. He stated that a
call was received at his home on Saturday,.17 July 1965. His
wife took the call as he was not available and Kimsey advised
he would call back. On 21 July, he called Jan at the office.
In addition to normal chit-chat, Mr. Kimsey indicated a desire
to get in touch with Lon Thomas of TSD/QDS. He seemed to be
aware, however, that Lon was not here and was attending the.
International Conference of Questioned Documents Examiners in
Los Angeles.. The gist of Kimsey's interest in the contact .
with Lon Thomas appeared to be for the purpose of having him
pick up something from the Identi-Kit people in the Los Angeles
area (Townsend Company, Identi-Kit Division, 805 South Grand
Avenue, Santa Ana, California). Kimsey is said to be a close
friend of Courtney E. Owens, Chief, of Identi-Kit Division and
apparently has some business with him, Mr. Beck indicated that
he got the idea from Kimseys conversation that someone from
Identi-Kit who would be at the International Convention may
contact Lon Thomas while he is there. Mr. Kimsey did not ask
about other people he knows at TSD, His questions were more
on the order of "How is everything going?"

3. Kimsey stated to Beck that he was working with a.
security. assogiation. or company and that they were making a
security eitths installation in the Kuwait Embassy (the Kuwait
Embassy was burglarized recently).

4, Mr. Lon Thomas will be queried regarding his contact
with Kimsey upon his return to Washington. ‘

urtis if Neste ry

Chief
TSD/Liaison Security Staff

 

 

 

 

 
