13-00000

8

“CONFIDENTIAL.

assignment and reported to Sam Halpern; and that occasionally I undertook

’ tasks for Gruce Cheever, Harvey's deputy, although these tasks were concerned

_with the workings of ‘Task Force W and did not involve contact with the Cubans,

I was asked if there were any Special Assistant other than me in Task Force ¥
xand I replied that ifr. Zogby, C/iil/4 prior to Mr, Harvey's arrival on the scene,
“had been retained as a member of Task Force W.in an SA status. I said that

there may well have been others because people would show up from time to tine for
short tours of duty for several months or so and then depart to carry on

their work elsewhere, but that I could not recall anyone oy name at the present
tine.

13. I was asked whether I used the name Fiscalini in circuustances other
than those described, I said that I frequently carricd identification in
that nase and used it on several occasions. I described one occasion which was
an amusing one-time contact with no bearing on any item of interest to the comit-
tee. The investigator asked whether I had ever contacted Cubans in Miami and I
replied in the negative.

14. I was asked if I had ever made contacts with people in New York City
other than those described, I said that indeed I had but that in one case, al-.
though the man in question lived in New York, the meeting took place in Newark,
New Jersey. In response to a question I said that the lead was provided by the
- FBI. I declined to identify the man involved on the grounds of the sensitivity

‘of his position at that time and the fact that I do not know at present where he

‘ds or what he is doing. (This was the beginning of the unsuccessful £0 Opera-
tion which should be recorded sonewhere in the Task Force W or tani Station
files.)

15. I was asked whether I had any knowledge of a meeting of the Attorney
General and Cuban exile leaders in. the summer of 1962. I-said that such a
meeting would not have been “unusual, in xy opinion, but that I had no knowledge.
of. such a meeting... I pointed out that it was comson practice among many Cuban
leaders to try to acquire the support, or at least the appearance of support, of
U.S. agencies and prominent U.S. political figures. I further stated that.
nuserous atteupts were made to get the U.S. to support a Cuban government-in-
exile and that I had had one necting in Washington with a Cuban leader who was
constantly attempting to get us to support him as head of such an arrangement.
T identified tis man as Mario Garcia-Kohly and adJed that he was sentenced to
prison some years later for coumterfeiting Cuban pesos. The namwe 'Kohly’' ob-
viously rang a bell with Mr. Postal as he repeated it aloud in a surprised tone
of voice. ilowever, itr. Postal did not pursue the matter.

16. Some of the other topics which were surfaced in commection with the |
above major itans: I was asked whether I knew the following people or recomized
the nazes. (iy responses arc summarized in the parentheses and I can't vouch for
all the spellings):

CONFIDENTIAL.
13-00000

CONFIDENTIA!

(1) Carlos Teppedino (never heard of him)
(2) Jose Orta (never heard of him)
(3) Sam Giaricana (read about him in newspaper; never met him)
(4) Roselli (read about him in the newspaper; never met him)
* (5) Trafficante (read about him in newspaper; never met him) -
g (6) Manuel Artime (a prominent member of Cuban brigade; never met him)
(7) Big Jin O'Connell (heard about him in the newspaper ;. never met him)

I was asked whether "No Name Key''meant anything to me and
I gave a negative response, -

I was asked if I had visited Chicago in the course of my work
and I told then I had not. .

17. This is probably the appropriate point to underline ny conviction that the
main, if not the only, point of concern to the investigators is whether I was
directed to sally orth and initiate contact with members of the underworid in
the U.S. and who directed me to do so. Their interest is even more pointedly |

' focussed on whether I had anything to do with the Rosselli, Giancana, et al,
. "operations". Once again, I explained that my job was broader thancthis by a

long shot, and that I was never directed to take the initiative in establishing
contacts with the underworld. I said that several, probably no more than five

‘or six, of thé people with whom I dealt were somewhat ‘'shady" characters, in

some cases with recorded run-ins with law enforcement agencies.

Charles D, Ford
Chief, Training Services Staff, OIR

CONFIDENTIAL >

cages
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

me inasmuch as Ishelieved Nestor to have been involved only in psychological
operations working at collecting foreign intelligence. I was then
asked if the w “AMOTS"” meant anything to me and I said it did but that all

“I could say was that it had to do with counterintelligence activities. Mr.
“Rhea asked me whether I could say that the "AMOIS" activity was concerned with

“contncting Cuban exiles in the Miami area and I indicated that this was my
understanding. The subject was not pursucd further.

9. I was asked about my visit to New Orleans (which I had mentioned during
the previous session) and I explained that these two trips were for the purpose
of attempting to find ways of establishing chamels of cormamication between the
exiled Cubans in New Orleans and their friends in Guba. I indicated that I had
been able to come up with a very fine prospect, a Cuban, and that J had turned .
him over to one of our FI Case Officers. I also said that I had several dis-
cussiorswith an American whom I declined to identify under the general ground
rule relating to sources of information. Messrs. Postal and Rhea asked if I
would respond affirmatively if they were to suggest-somo initials which might
correspond to the name of my American contact. I agreed to do this but the
initials which they mentioned meant nothing. (Unfortumately, I cannot recall
then!) I volunteered the initials of my contact,"FJ", and this produced a blank
expression on the part of both investigators and a shrug of Mr. Rhea's shoulders.
The final question I was asked was whether I had any knowledge of the 'Ponchar-
train Operation’. I told them that I knew where Lake Ponchartrain was, and
that's as far as it went.

10, We spent a littie time on the subject of General Landsdale. 1 ad-

mitted I had attended one meeting in Gencral Landsdale'’s office in the Pentagon,

I was asked whether anyone else was there and said that I could recall only one
name, Cornelius Roosevelt, but that there were two other people at the meeting.

In response to a series of questions about what was discussed at that meeting,

I said that General Landsdale was interested in various paramilitary possibilities
and that my role was limited to giving a quick assessment of whether we had the -
agent assets to assist in carrying out the various possible operations that
General Landsdalo suggested.

11. 1 was asked whether the tem "Mongoose meant anything to me and I
indicated that it was a general tern used to refer to a composite of planned
operational activities. I said that I had no hnowledye of any specific activity
being planned under this name and further explained that it was possible that
soxe of my Cuban contacts might have been taken over by other Case Officers for
use under “Mongoose” but that I had no direct knowledges of such having been done.

12. Mr. Robert Kelly expressed considerable interest in the organization of
Task Force W. At one point he asked how many echelons there were between me and
Mr. Helis. I told them that I reported to Dill Harvey; that my title was Special
Assistant; that Mr. Harvey reported to Mr. Hels; that I frequently received

CONFIDENTIA! >

 
13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

man and I said that I recalled him as a fairly tall man of average build with
black hair, black eyebrows and glasses. Of considcrable interest is the fact
that perhays 15 to 20 minutes later I was shown an 3 X 10 glossy photograph of
several people walking in front of what appeared to be a public building and.

.was asked whether I could identify any of the people in the picture. I could

‘not. Hr. Postal pointed to the central figure and asked if I could identify him.
I said I could not. (The picture was of a man probably in his mid-sixtics with
flowing white hair - somewhat on the order of Senator Keating - a large down-
curving nose, white, straight eye brows behind dark glasses, a somewhat Lined,
puffy face, and a slightly receding forchead accentuated by the fact that his
hair was combed straight from front to back. The man was wearing a dark blue
or black suit, and one man appeared to be accompanying him to his left and
slightly. ahead, and another man slightly to his right and rear. Without hav~
ing any reference points by which to judec, my best quess would be that the
subject was about 5'10° tall. He appeared to be rather heavy, perhaps in the
range of 220 pounds. There scomed to be a caption of some sort at the bottom
of the picture but this was hidden from my view.) Hir. Postal asked whether

the main figure in the photograph could have been the man the Attorney General
directed me to see. I replied that, even allowing for the difference in years,
the man in the photograph in no way+resenbled the man I saw on behalf of the
Attorney General. ; : ;

_ - J, Messrs. Postal and Rhea again brought up. the subject of assassination —
and asked whether I had engaged in or had heard mention of, in Task Force W

or SAS, discussions on the subject of assassination either in general or .
specifically with respect to Castro. I told the investigators tliat the subject

* came up repeatedly when we were speaking with Cubans, many of whon, having been

forced to flee Cuba, sincerely wished for Castro's immediate demise. I said
thet I had never heard of or engaged in conversations with Agency officers about
any plan the direct and only aspect of which was the assassination of Fidel
Castro. I pointed out that on a number of occasions I dealt with Cubans who
wanted to kill Castro, but that is7 job was simply to attempt to extract fron
these contacts the names of people in Cuba who might be of potential use to us
‘in intelligence operations. I said that I had never engaged in plotting with
Cubans regarding assassination but that I had many conversations with Cubans
regarding their desire to conduct paramilitary ac tivities which, as a by-product,

might well result in Castro's death. . I pointed cut emphatically that the Agency's

' policy prohibits political assassination.

8 I was asked if I a Nestor Sanchez. I told then
‘ that I knew them both and that ne red an office for a short period

near the end of my attachment with SAS. I was asked if "AMLASH" meant anything
to mo and I replied in the nogative. This was followed by whether{Bil// and
Nestor had discussed with me or mentioned an operation of -theirs involving a.
high level officer of the Cuban government, a military man who made frequent
trips out of Cuba. Again I could only reply in the negative. I added the
juxtaposition of illjand Nestor in the context of a single operation surprised

“CONFIDENTIAL

Yo
13-00000

Building.

CONFIDENTIAL .

- 19 September 1975
HIORANDOM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

Pd

1. On Thursday, 18 September 1975, I was interviewed for the second

_time by investigators from the Senate Comittee. The interview lasted from

approximately 11:20 a.m. until 1:15 p.m. My testimony was recorded and will
be transcribed. When the transcription is ready I will be required to read
it and swear to the truthfulness of the statements I made. Under ordinary
circumstances, a Senator would have been present to swear me in at this in-
terview. -However, because of the televised public hearings, no Senators were
available. An unidentified woman operated the equipment which consisted of a
Sony casette recorder ami dictaphone casette recorder. The primury questioning
was by Mr. Postal and Mr. Gordon Rhea, the same investigators with whom I spoke
on the earlier occassion. At one point or another during the proceedings three
other men joined us for various periods of tine. Mr.. Rhett Dawson appeared
shortly after the interview began and remained for about an hour. Hr. Fred
Behren (1 can't vouch for the spelling) arrived after about half an hour and
reuained for approxinately twenty minutes, having received a phone call which

. took him away. Mr. Bob Kelly. arrived shortly after Mr, Behren and stayed for

about 10 minutes longer than Mr. Behren. The interview was conducted in a room
in the Carroll Armss a former hotel across the street from the Senate Office

Sano!

2. The meeting began with a roninder that I could have an attorney present
and that I could refuse to answer any question which might tend to incriminate
me. I was asked to describe in general terns my work with CIA. I told thes
that I joined in 1949; that I was and am now a member of the Office of Training;
that in 1960 or thereabouts I had a short tour of duty with the Economic Action

Group in the DDP, and that I went directly from that assignment to W/4 in _..

September of 1961.

3. I was asked to recall ny najor activities while with the Cuban operation
and I did.so. I reported that my first assignment was the handling of a Cuban
agent, one wo were using to build a nucleus of an organization for eventual
oporations into Cuba. I identified this man as Mréf___|(Q4r. Rhea, having

heard my description of this activity at our earlier session, did not pursue
this matter r any further).

7
13-00000

_ CONFIDENTIAL

J

4. The investigators were interested in when I was. assigned the code
name Fiscalini; the circunstances under which the name was assigned, and who
had assigned it. I toldthem I had seen a Xerox copy of the memorandua (I
‘saw this during a mecting with i111 Sturbits last Friday in Bili's office)
which requested that identification in the name of Fiscalini be assigned to me.
" explained the circumstances, which Mr. Postal and Mr. Rhea had heard at our
earlicr mecting, and said that I thought the date was the end of arch, 1962.

_ The circumstances involved a contact by a New York lawyer, thru the Department

+ of Justice, concerning a client who had access to Cuba and wanted to visit

- Castro to put in a special plea on behalf of the Bay of Pigs prisonors. I
identified the individual concerned (I still can't remember his name} as the
manager of the Teresa Hotel in New York. I did not identify the lawyer and
was not asked for his name. I identified a man I met at a second mecting in
New York as "Bubbles" Abdallah. I explained that the latter individual pro-
posed to accompany the manager of the Teresa to Cuba, the manager being an
elderly genticnan with sone “difficulty in walking, I explained to the investi-
gators that I had no further contacts with these people after I discovered that
Abdallah was wanted, or under indictment - I forget which - by Texas authorities ~
for smuggling drugs from Mexico. Mr. Robert Kelly was clearly interested in
pursuing the matter of who assigned my “Code Name.'* I indicated that the docu-
mentation that I received came from the Office of Security but that I did not
knO¥ whether that Office selected the name or not.

- §.° We went over again the story of my contact with a Canadian nauied ‘Joe"
(I know this man's last name ‘but have not been asked for it and have not volun-
teered it}. I described one meeting and a telephone call involving Joe. In the
meeting he claimed that he could travel back and forth from Canada to Cuba; revealed
to me that he was interested in starting a smucgling activity involving goods
on the prostribed list; that he wanted United States citizenship and a preat
deal of money in exchange for allowing us to send materials or tamper with soze
of the shipments if we could get the proscribed goods to Canada. I explained to
the investigators that my interest lay in the fact that Joe claimed he could
speak with Che Guevara and that I had attempted to get Joe to serve as a means
of consamication between us and Che, which Joe refused to do. As for the tele-.
phone call, I:.told then that when Joe returned from his trip to Cuba he called
to say that big things were going on in Cuba and we should meet right away.
_ Being aware that at that point we in the Agency were deep into what would later
’ _ be called the Cuban Missile Crisis, I told Joe I could not see him and that we
probably already knew what he had to tell me. That was the last I heard of Jee.

6. We spent a great deal of ‘tine going over my meetings with the Attorney
General and his interest in a saall group of Cubans who claimed to have supporters
in Cuba ready to create an uprising in Santiaso Province. This is the case de- ©
scribed in paragraph 3 of ny earlier memorandum. The investigators were quite
interested in the identity of the man whos I saw at the request of the.Attorney
General. I went over this again in as rach detail ‘as I could renember But with-
out being able to recall who this man was. I was asked if I could describe the

CONFIDENTIAE
      
  
  

oon ers oe ne ein nee na et Nae oe a

ae SET

‘Review Staff:. 75/2728

Date 28 August 1975

TO -: CIA Task Force

FROM: The Review Staff, Walter Elder” a

SUBJECT : - SSC/HSC Request a ee oe

RECEIVED: Date =. sos Time + Mm
oO Niy—

Mike Madigan, SSC staff, reports that Mr. Helms
and Mr. Halpern have testified that in response to a
- request by Attorney-General Robert Kennedy, the Agency
' assigned an officer to establish contacts with the under-
world to: look for’ possible assets” for use against Castro.

Sam ‘Halpern says the officer was Charles Ford who
used the name, Rocky Siscalini.

Madigan wants any information we. have on this and-
would like te intérview the Agency officer.
. . a _7

coe
~

Comments: o : >

Fk

 

 

 

  

CERRET
 

404-10303-10001

 

 
INTERVIEW FORM

 

 

name: FORD, Charles _* TELEPHONE” =

 

 

Date

 

ALIAS (= ta .

“OTR oe : --
_ OFFICE _ ; .
_OFFICE APPROVAL

uO , . Signature .

DATE OF INTERVIEW 18 Sept 75. - + TIMBI120-1315

 

“LOCATION OF INTERVIEW. " Carrol Arms

TRANSPORTATION REQUIRED: YES NO

 

_~ FROM HEADQUARTERS oo.
ae ae ~~ (time) os

Cd

OTHER —

 

“Postal, Gordon Rhea, Rhett Dawson,

 

INTERVIEWED BY: _
: . _ Fred Baron, Robert Kelly.

 

o&

 

, Cuban Operations -“Task Force W -
_ 4

 

“SUBJECT:

=

 

.

"Assassination of Castro - Mafia connections.

 

 

COMMENTS: : Under oath. This was second meeting.

 

“
¥

[p"

 

 

 

Attached. |

 

- MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

 
13-00000

& ”

Interview by Senate Committee Investigators

Director of Training . os
. b026 (o : 3245 19 September ih

She p

; ; .
. DBTR- . Prargé-

DIR
Chief, Division D ; pre f q&
7B-44 Hgs. | ryy7 .
Assistant to the Director : : co
6D=-15 Hqs. : S
: had
a7
5
~~
=
re}
an

 
