 

104-10113-10279

 

. ’ ay
seas

2 July 1959
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Major Pedro L. Diaz Lanz
a
1. At approximately 2:10 this date Mr. ext. 2287, WH,

Cuban Desk, telephonically advised that the Agency is assuming interest

in the Subject for the entire intelligence community. Diaz Lanz, as in-

dicated in the attached newspaper clippi: recently resigned as Chief of

the Cuban Air Force and, according to MPa is now in Miami, Florida.
* requested that this office communicate with the Immigration .

and Naturalization Service in order to ascertain the status of the Subject

immigration wise. :

2. Mr. Herbert E. NICE of the Central Office, I&NS, was telephoni-
cally contacted. He was well aware of the Sub ject's case and advised that
he arrived in Miami in possession of an I.151 card indicating that he had
been previously lawfully admitted for permanent residence. He also had in
his possession a diplomatic passport with a valid diplomatic visa for him-
self and his wife. In addition to these documents the Subject. indicated
that he was seeking political asylum in the United States. Mr. NICE went
on. to point out that the FBI had interrogated the Subject yesterday, and
the Service is aware of the fact that the Army is sending a couple of
representatives to Miami to speak to the Subject tomorrow. Mr. NICE in- ©
dicated that he would inform the Army of the CIA interest in the Subject..

. 2 .
3. The above situation was releted to on a) and he declared »?
that he would coordinate our interest with that of the Army. Mr.
further advised that Bernard REICHHARDT, the WH representative in Miami,
will get in touch with the Subject today. He requested that the Service
be informed of the fact that Mr. REICHHARDT would have an official interest
in the Subject. . .

hk. Mr. NICE was informed of the fact. that Mr. REICHHARDT would con-
tact the Subject and, in view of the fact that Mr. REICHHARDI is known to
the District Director of the I&NS in Miami (Ed AHRENS), he did not feel
. it was necessary to communicate with the Miami office as to the’interest
{ of Mr. REICHHARDT. Mr. NICE was advised that in view of the fact that the
Subject is a political refugee there is no question but that he will be
permitted to remain in the States, and it will not be necessary for this
Agency to intercede in his behalf in this regard.

  

STE Bs
SECRET
