13-00000

contact their component or directcrate IRO or the JFK Project Coordinator. Directorate
TROs and the Agency’s JFK Project Coordinator are as follows:

   

 

Secure Phone
DO/IRO- William McNair 44448
DI/IRO $4644
DS&T/IRO 50104
DA/IRO ky _. 31204
DCI Area / TRO q 39058
JFK Project ,
Coordinator Barry Harrelson 31825

ES | ues

tor Intelligence

 
404-10334-10184

ca

e
= 4,

*

 

c. 6/78 ¢

NOTICE TO ALL CIA EMPLOYEES

FROM: George J. Tenet
Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Final Document Search to Assure Compliance with “President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992” (JFK Act)

1. (U) As you know, the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (Board) is
completing its task of overseeing the search and declassification of all Federal
government records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy by 30
September 1998. The Board and we want to do everything possible to place before the
American people the full story as reflected in government and other records. :

2. (U) The Agency has been working on this effort since 1992 and has searched all
of the obvious databases. _We want to make certain that we have left no stone unturned
and thatno employee has “any records that might possibly be considered relevant to the

- assassination—including any records created [or received] after 1992.” (The reference to

1992 is largely intended to encompass documents which may have come into our hands
since the collapse of the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact.)

3. (AIUO) In accordance with the provisions of the JFK Act, I hereby direct all CIA
personnel to consider documents in their possession or with which they are familiar that
might have relevance to the Board’s review and that might not have been found in the
course of electronic or manual searches over the past six years. Representatives of the
Historical Review Program believe that if such documents do éxist that they would, most
likely, be found in files that would not be known generally to be related to the —
assassination or that would not be “logical” areas for systematic searches, such as
working paper files or smaller databases related to countries not normally associated with
the assassination. Relevant documents can be in the form of papers, photographs,
recordings, tapes, or other media, and can include documents “related to the
assassination,” such as later investigations, key topics/events within the Oswald/JFK
Story, or material related to key figures—such as Nosenko.

4.. (AIUO) CIA personnel who believe they have information regarding documents
relevant to the JFK review that may not have been found in previous searches should
