 

 

‘
SECRET

CK 070 rh)

alt

an

LL Jim 62

. resistance movement which had contact with Osvaldo. On the basis of

_ this information and the Followthrough, & trap was sprung. Ossaldo
was. asked to Come’ down fron the mountaing to attend an important
teeting with the resistsoce leaders, and he was then ambushed, Source

“said that Castro learma? vell ‘trom Batiata and that Castro’ knows
Batista's big mistake was in not hunting down Castro and the other

' survivors of the Granms invasion. Consequéntly Caetro throvs Large

_ masses of milith against the emallest of guerrilla groups.

12. Source said he can supply personality information on the

following:

a. 0. Dorticos

b. Pidel Castro

c. Raul Castro

d. Jian Almeida

e. Major Sergio dei Valle
f. Major Ramiro Valdes
S- Enrique Otulskt

h. “Osmani Clefuesos

i. Raul Curbelo

ds The Santamaria trothers
x. Captain Cuillerro Garcia

 

1. Armando Hart
m. Lazaro Soltura (Csptain) |
a.. Others
a G oe
z iy pee

   
  

femily and @ former emp:
United_Gtates ox Puerto 5

 

 

Captain Juan Eecalona (Aide
to Raul Castro) :

Ms jor Fernandes (Chief of
Operations -an artillery ‘and .
mortar expert who aidai Castro :
greatly at Playa Giron) =. ;
Captain Zenon Casas
Captain Lino Carreras
Major Manuel Pineiro
Major "Chino" Piguereds -
(Chief of G-2) .
Major Aldo Santamaria (Chie? of
Minas del. Frio)

PT ARGS

13. Source said thst Fabio'Escalona, ose of the notorious E ona
of the Cuban telephone company, is in th
Source said he yerwonally knows that Fabio

  

ds a Comminist "from deep dom within ewe and that he left, Cubs

shortly after Playa Giron. Wate G2

2k. Source said thst ville he was the aide to Otulski he, the

source, was in charge of nooitoring telephones.
“were Lt. Gomez who is now is jail and Sergio

His aides in this eisston
‘Anchia who is now in Nisnt

and who probably will work vith the, source in thie area. Source said

that the monitoring office was the second floor of the telephone company. ~

The mouitoring section for the American Embassy vas special. It vas

located in a backroam off =h= source's office. Source: said he obtained
‘his instructions from Rigel castro and Ramiro Valdez. hen a call was

monitored, a report was mais fn four. copies. One

for Castro, one for

the President, one for Ramiro Valdez and one was kept in the tiles.

SECRET

 
 

 
 

 

A“

  

_ were. also monitoréd. ©

 

SECRET

“ CK.070

rH “ La. nm 62.

15. Source said that while he vas maitoring the Avericéin Babassy
he went to thebouse of Brown, the Counsellor of the Embassy, -and informed .

‘Inin that this was beltig-done.
‘and that Certain residences,

 
 
 
 
 
  

erg, Etc.

fle told Brow that the Embassy vas tapped
stich’ as Colonel Nichols and other attaches,

id that this monitoring still continues, He ‘eaid:

entirely by G-2 and Communists and that it 1

of the telephone company who pass tl
“Jn Batiata'a time, he aaid, the monitoring -

 

was done in the miin office and a "sump" line was connected to the

monitoring office proper. No’

wadays, the "jump" lire is put.on outside

‘the office, and no ‘orie inside has any information on vWoich line is
tepped.. The new plan he said, 1a to do the tapping from the various

- telephone plants {"plantaa") by tapping each exchange. He said that.

each monitor listens to ten taps and has three tape recorders which ©
has been found to be a sufficient mmber. If another io needed, the

‘monitor is able, to use a reco!

:.. '  AY., Source has general
(." the training of fore

» bat
ehie? of training. Teneo AL
traning bases jo \Hinas del Fr

rder belonging to another monitor.

information on guerrilla training including
rican guerrillas... He’ anid that the
tamaria and thétyone of the principal

do. in the Sierra Maeatra Ho untains. i

. Cte é 1980, the source \attended-a mecting with other mexbers of the general.

ataff in which inyosions were
Yoldez said. that gatewsy
Panana/Colombia bolder in’ clo:

  
  

then down the Ande ‘spine into Latin Americas)

Station

.

Corenesbinene ‘ pene PHA

 

discugoed:.: During this meeting Remiro .
for the guerrillas: in Letin America 1s the
se proximity to the Andes Mountains and .

yao notified and immediately took over the. .

  
    
  
 
 

Helcon L. RAYSOCK |
; pete

ALS
v5 + RO

 
 

il

 
 

 

cp PF

hief, Task Force ¥
Chief of. Station, JMWAVE GA

   

GYR rational 7 a

Angel'Guiu, ake Marco’ Willian

ATTENTION REQUESTED: KUTUER me et
“1, On 8 ond 9 2962, Angel Date Gulu Figsaredo, eka "Marco

Willian", A‘l12 817, 76 vworm7 aE uy Mismi address:
c/o Isabel Zapata Tbarra de Gulu (bis vite) Ai0: uy es st) MS 22x RE 22nd "Sereet, Lom: ,7lA,

‘telephone: FR 3-9778, was interviewed. Re uie

foe 2.) It is the intent of this dispatch to reas Some measure of
the source's knowledgeability in order to assist in outside debriefing.
‘The source was. 4 captain in the rebel army from 1 January 1959 to 29
June 1960. During this period he was assigned ns an aide to Enrique
Qtulski, the Minister of Casmunications, and the source represented,
moreorless, the military. ‘interests in this ministry. As a former
employee of the Cuban telephone company one of his misgiona was to run
the telephone monitoring service. Atter leaving the army the source
was the chief of the military section of. the MRP. After Playa Giron,
- during the summer of 1961, source broke with Manolo Ray, the ‘MRP chief,
- and: Reinol Gonzalez, the MRP” coordinator, over ideological differences,
_ the source claiming that Ray was too far to the left. In this fractioning
~of the MRP, the source pulled outthe entire military section, and it
since has been operating 68 an independent group. ;

3A On 5 May 1961, the souree entered the Italian Embassy asa
: “guest” and ‘operated the group from within the Embassy. He claims close
‘contact with the Italian Ambassador, and later: in the conversation
mentioned that the Ambassador brought the source's dog from Havana to
the source's wife in Miami. Qa 7 May- 1962, the source left the Rnbassy,
went back to Havana,-and later in the month got on a Spanish ship hich
tock him to Colombia.’ From Colombia he came to the United States and

d/9-9-4 Ba
oe

O-GF , . SECRET

  

 
 

14-10492-10282]_

 

 

 

SECRET

” CWHEN FILLED
a rrr

 

Cs)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

 

 

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back:
flap and forward to RID,

2. Dostroy front cover sheet, unless it
rocords significant action taken or
comments. requiring preservation.

Tf file no. and title shown are aot
proper, insert proper file-ne.. below
and ferward document to RID/AX. °

PROPER FILE NO,

 

 

aa

 

 

FILL IN SECTION If APPROPRIATE

 

20 JUN 1962

MICRO L MED
sun 25 woe

SING SUSPENDED
CATE HANDLING

tFile deer)
OF Index as Itiicated in Dyefirsent

 

of the CS Rees Ss oe Uncl the
Desited Handling Is Checked Above
and the Documnant Returned to RID

 

 

REQUEST

FILE NUMUER (PRIMARY CODE?

~D>

SAG 120 Sao

 
 

 

 

SECRET
cK 070 de 1b gun 62

4.” ‘The. reason the ecurce went into the Italian Sebassy vas that
-he was arrested by Ramiro Valdez and Menuel Pineiro on the charge of ©
having monitored telephone ‘calls of Fidel Castro and other officials
of the Cuban Government.” Source said this was partially true, ‘as the. |
Operators at the monitoring’ site would listan to such conversations aid |

- then tell. him of the contents.

Lc Se After being réleased by G-2, the source veat into the Sierra
Escambray Mountains as ‘a guerrilla. He stayed for about 90 days, end
came down in Octobér of 1960 after Sinesio Waleh was killed. ~ :

6. Source gave the organization of the (MRP) military section

‘ which'he heads as follows:

..@« The top command is known as Estado Mayor de Operacionea Militar
(EMOM). It consiste of five people. ‘Three are active military officers,
They include one major (navy), .one captain, and one first lieutenant. ,
One nan 13 @ retired officer of the rebel ‘army. “The fifth person is

the source. :

b. Two elements subordinate to: theEMOM are the Camando Accion
(CA) and Inteligencia-1 (I-1). :

c. Underneath the staff atructure, a and b above, the organization
' , 1a broken down into Provincial units.’ Each province is directed by a.

"Mondo" vhich are numbered fron 1-6, corresponding to the six provinces
of Cuba. Each province thereby being know as-Mando-l (M-l1) to Mando-6
(4-6). Each Mando is divided into five Camando Eetrategicas (CE) and
each CE is divided inte five columnes, Each columa has 100-112 people,
divided into four companies, A company is made, up of four squads of
eight men each. : ..

_d. The members of the CA are merged into the sub-paragraph ¢
structure, It hag been found, he said, that because a person is a member __
of. the military as all people in the military section are, it'does not, ~
seem that he-is necessarily qualified for comando or sabotage work.
Therefore, the best have been selected and can be called for action. -

' However, the military section has very little ("casi nada") arms or
explosives. “ ‘ ae

7.: Source said that in December 1961, and January 1962, the EMOM
made an islandwide survey of the organization and on the basis of the
survey calculates that about 7,000 Ben belong to the military section. |
Taking into. account: that personal and femily problems thich might
preclude a4 man's taking action could came up, it is estimated that
about 3;000-4,000, men could be counted upon. i :

O-. Ge . ; : : .
19> F / SECRET IG. (Qo- AQ
 

 

SECRET

CK OTO : oo 11 Jun 62

. 8. ‘Source said that he left a suitcase behind in Cuba vhich contains
‘information which: he’ wishes to get out of Cuba. In its contents is
information relating to military camps, artillery positions, mine fields,
emergency military highveys, airfields, electric plants, radar systems,
microwave, Red Offiestal de Micronda. (ROcuE), and recket installations.

The emphasis of the cotents, he said, is on the north coast of Cuba.

: Be add that this suitcase is in closa proximity to the Italian Embassy

in Havana, ‘and that he hes’ hope that the Italian Ambassador or the

Counsalloe of Embassy will be able to pick it up and bring it to the

United States, If hot, he can probably arrange to get it on the Spanish
ship which carried him into exile.

D. Source said he wants to obtain arms and explosives for his
group. He daid that contact in the Cubsn navy can help to get this
stuff into Cuba. ;

10. Source said that he has a Collins radio in Havana, end a W-T
operator. He must get a radio on this side, he said, in order to
commmnicate. If this cemnot be done, he has contact with pilots who
can carry out information.

li. Other information obtained from the source was as follows:

a. Source identified the captain who is a member of the EMOM (see
Paragraph 6a) as a penetration of the Cuban army and he works in “Inspeceion",
probably the army I.G. Scurce said that this officer reports that there
are 13 missile sites (rempas) in Cuba. Most of them are in Pinar del
Rio but a few.are in Crientes. ‘The missiles are mown as "Vengadores
Especiales” and are said-to have 6 range of 14,000 kilometers, but
source said this is not certain. The missiles are said to be in a
vertical position, and that the manning and oneration of these sites is
separate from the army ani the militia. Missiles have a separate command,
and the last information wnich the source received was that the command
headquarters for the missile sites is housed in a house in the old
Biltmore section of Havana. (Note: Scurce was turned over to military:
debriefers for complete debricfing on this point.) The dateof this
information, the latest date, is aporoximately 12 December 1961, the

: date the information was brought to hin by the ee %

 

was killed by Castro's forces and that/ the guide saw Osxaldo dead. Source
said that he had previously received a message from Osvaldo as. it
someone could dispatch a radio technician to him. Source said he did

 

. this, and that the guide was to take the radio technician into the

mountains. The radio technician vas captured and is now in jail and
held in Santa Clara. Source said that the guide told him that G-2 made
@ raid in Santa Clara and found a list of names of people working in a

ECRST
