74-00000

‘
~

 

3. Regarding the relationship of Werbell to the Agency, as
approved by the Deputy Director, the undersigned appeared before
Judge Fay in his chambers on 3] August and under oath answered
questions of the Court concerning Werbell. A copy of the transcript
of that proceeding is attached. You will note that Judge Fay requested
that all pertinent government records be made available to the Court
for its inspection. Accordingly, copies of Agency files were reproduced,
culled for “Brady-type" documents, excised to protect sources and
methods under the "SWP case criteria" and reviewed and approved by
Assistant DD/O on the evening of | September. These processed
documents were then handcarried to Miami by the undersigned on
2 September. : : 7

4. The undersigned advised J udge Fay at 0830 hours on

.2 September that I had'in my possession copies of all of the Agency

files on Werbell, had culled them as to possible "Brady" documents
and was prepared to review them with the Judge at his convenience.
He was on the bench with a tight schedule and asked that the possible
Brady documents first be reviewed by Karen Atkinson, the principal
counsel for the prosecution. The undersigned subsequently briefed
Atkinson on the nature of data in the possible Brady documents. This
resulted in a significant reduction in the number of possibles. The
undersigned gave Atkinson copies of the four unclassified OGC .
documents related to the DOD revocation of Werbell's security clearance
in 1971. In addition, Office of Security documents edited and approved
for release to Werbell under his Freedom of Information and Privacy
Act request (Tabs A and B of OS response), consisting of media’

' publications and security investigative data, were also provided
' Atkinson. Due to counsel for Werbell raising an issue on Werbell's

use of a boat named "Venus" belonging to CIA, a declassified copy

of the OS short investigative report outlining data concerning Werbell's
use of the Venus to transport arms was also provided Atkinson. The
related OS Headquarters assignment document was not provided. .
Related DDO documents on the ownership of Venus by the "JURE"
Cuban group were mentioned to Atkinson but not made available.

5. While the above documents were provided the Department of
Justice with the understanding they could be passed to Counsel for
Werbell due to subsequent events noted below, it is not certain that
this occurred. Specifically, the undersigned declined to release
additional "Brady" documents without consultation and instructions

 
 

“=

[tog 10105-10160

OGC 77-0704

1 February 1977

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations
ATTENTION : Associate Deputy Director for Operations

FROM : Walter T. Lloyd .
Associate General Counsel

SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

x

1. As you are aware, on the instruction of United States
District Judge Peter Fay (Miami, Florida Division), incident to
the Drug Enforcement Administration's prosecution of Subject
for conspiracy to import and distribute multi~-ton loads of
marijuana, the undersigned made a detailed review of the files
of this Agency concerning Subject in August 1976. This exami-
nation was to ascertain any data that ran to Werbell's guilt or
innocence of the offense charged and any other data reflecting the
nature of the relationship between Werbell and the U.S. Government.
This latter requirement was grounded on the Court's view that
Werbell's voluntary reporting to the Agency and any government
condonation of his activities might be exculpatory in the eyes of the
jury.

2. In response, we reviewed the files, identified Agency

“contacts with Subject and prepared two affidavits: one regarding
non-employment by Mr. B. DeFelice and the second regarding
Werbell's relationship to the Agency. by the undersigned. Copies
are attached. During the trial the first affidavit was shown to
counsel for Werbell by DEA counsel, Mr. Sam Sheres, at which
point defendant's counsel stipulated that Werbell was never a
formal employee of the Central Intelligence Agency. Sheres
subsequently returned the affidavits to the undersigned at the
conclusion of the trial.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 059605

 

ee ee ee een ee nutes opt tretneae eietns gt cer enter Un tp La pineetin et te gegen ames epen nade ene ne meng ne ee anaemia sapien or ttt ga eee eee
74-0000

ce: Jerry Brown, SAG/OS, w/o atts

A

a Wari citable - *

from the Court. The requested meeting was put off by Judge Fay and
defendants subsequently rested their case. The DOJ had little else

to add and the case went to the jury about noon on 3 September. All

the remaining copies of Agency documents were returned to Headquarters
by the undersigned the evening of 3 September, On 4 September the
jury returned a verdict of "not guilty.” As-a result, the bulk of
"Brady-type" Agency documents on Werbell was not provided to

counsel for Werbell and Judge Fay reviewed no Agency documents.

It should be noted all copies of documents taken to Miami were excised

in accord with the "SWP case criteria" and on return to Headquarters,

these were destroyed by the undersigned.

6. As a related matter, on 16 November Mr. Arthur Egbert —

_of the Internal Security Division of the DEA contacted the undersigned

seeking background information on Werbell. The undersigned suggested
Egbert first review the files of the FBI on Werbell as most of the data

. we have is contained in FBI reports. Should FBI data be insufficient

for his needs I suggested he seek access to our files in DDO and Office _ :
of Security via the normal DEA Department of Justice liaison channels.

Walter T. Lloyd ; :

Attachments: oo
ad Affidavit - DeFelice
(2) Affidavit - Lleyd . . .
(3) Transcript of Hearing of USDC for Southern District of Florida,
August 31, 1976. ; . . :

 

LD/SBCH/DDO, w/o atts

 

 

 

OGC/ WTH eh
Distribution:
Original - Addressee ; . : ; : :
~ OGC SUBJ: LITIGATION CRIMINAL - WerBell, Mitchell L., IIT moe, |
1-_ WTL Signer me mo ;
1 - Chrono

 

 

 
