   

 

“el

al
coe

D. should be examined together with ai] the other
available reports so that we may

(1) clarigy our own objectives and wishes with
respect to all the AMLASH group (and this includes
AMVHIP);

{2) sort out which people, if any, are worth our
time in the future;

(3) take appropriate measures, including inter-
rogation and polygraphing, to clarify doubts and
then, when necessary, terminate those who are
working for us but are not worthwhile;

(4) tighten up our own operational and security
precedures in connection with the AMLASH group.

3. Prelint Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary
analysis of The SRUASH c iex, made in March 1955 when I was

 

preparing for travel to in connection with the QUHOPS-1- Lo:

case: "...There is no convincing evidence that the group is

“working either for or against. the regine of Fidel CASTRO.

Reports on their contacts with us. and their dissussions 2mong
themselves are at variance. In 1362 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly |

knowing that they were plotting against him, talked to AMLASS-1 -

and seven members of his group to enlist their support against.

Anibal ZSCALANTE Dellunds and the communists in Cuba. Possibly

they ars playing both ends against the middle. ‘ney certainly
have been and are in contact with the two ends." ‘The following
comments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASH conspiracy - As detailea by [__|8715
(1H 28634) on 6 April 1965, QUSPORT-1 reporting on a meeting
of the AMLASH group, including AMWHI?-2 mentioned the vollowing
significant points: :

(1) KUSARK was criticized for "fooling around tor
years” without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

(2) the group was to be prepared to denounce
SDOYORE as responsible if the operation fails aud believed that
the resulting scandal would rake. the Bay of Pigs seem insidgni-
ficant; and ; f

(3) AMLASH-2 was in touch with Cuban Intelligence
as established by coded messages which he exhibited.

As reported by [11582 (IN 82939) on 4 June 1963, based on
meetings with ESPINCSA, the problem seen by is that

se

 

 

 

 

 

~ 0003667

 

 
104-10051-10028

 

  
 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chie?, WHD for Cuba

SUBJECT 3 Espinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Regardless of accuracy, they

A. present a problem becausa of their having been
presented to other government agancias;

B. in view of matters touching on U.S. security,

are delicate and could have unfavorable repercussions :
if repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his

associates (shose independent, previous threats were

of greater potential embarrassment);

Cc. affect the reputations and the security of our
personnal at |

 

 

 

‘2. Action: in view of the foregoing, the allegations _

'A. should be put in proper perspective - 1l.e., not.
ignored because of the potential embarrassment but |
considered in the Tight of what we already know -{
(Almost all of them are repetitions of previous

_ charges and reports, known well to | ce IR
ee these cue ee Headquarters officers = .. =.
concerned with the AHITASH group, whose members'
reliability, reputations and good faith are question—
able. Tvo of the charges - about Earle and
and about AMVYHIP-1 and CARRILLO -— are new.);

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B. should be treated so as to proteet us against any
cone charge of laxity and so as to establish the fnets but, +*
: at the same time, treated so 2s to avoid attributing | .
wee to them more importance than they deserve;

C. should be kept in mind as examples of other
charges which may betandied about and reported by the
AMLASH group to other governmental agencies or to
other governments or to news media (in the last
connection recall the implied threat of publishing
ODYOXKE responsibility, as resorted previously by
B715,IN 33634.);

 

 

 

 

 

0003666
"the AMLASH circle is wide and each new 2
seems to have knowledge of the plan." I b
‘problem is & more serious and basic one.

 

   

ra

that the |
cated in

paragraph 3 of the present memorandum, Fidel CASTRO binsel?
reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group was plotting
against him and, knowing it, enlisted its support. Hence ve

cannot rule out the possibility of provocation.

 

obviously, is a dangerous game, not merely to the plotters in
a physical sense, but to a sponsoring government which may
suifer savere political repercussions at home and sboroad if its
involvement is made known. In the instant
exposure of the ODYOXE hand would appear high, whether there is

a provocation or not.

ease, the risks of

Considering the individuals who are
involved directly, their contacts with KUBARK officers,and their

reported plan to expose ODYOKE, persisting in the plan could

-be highly embarrassing to XUBARK

‘now that ESPINOSA has talked to ODENVY and ODURGS, although
fortunately the tenor of his complaint was that KUBARR bad not
given adequate support to the plan.)

B. The contacts at and the

 

 

 

the

matters affecting

 

~ The "recruitment" of

 

 

subject of an eXchange of cables between

 

Rad been the

 

 

and of discussions at Headquarters between

1971 (ZN 66557) and DIR-10955).

2H/C and VE {See

The annoying” thing ino.

this connection now is that ESPINOSA bas talked about it'.to-

ODENVYY and ODURGE and the danger that,
_his story avout this (and the other matters) could. reach sone .

-curious newspaperman. (in this connection
auestionable decision to put! in to
group was wade without the knowledge of STOCHVOOD.). ESPINOSA
aid not report any criticism of the KUBARKers | but if
is evident that the AMLASH group knows more abouts them than

we might wish.

 

 

 

 

What is nev and of concern

 

natiers

 

 

 

3£ he is indiscreet,

» if appears that the.

uch with the AMLASH

 

from ESPINOSA about

is his story of AMWHIP 1 and iNiSNAFU-13

dealings. The questions raised about AMNWHIP-1 are of mutual
concern Also to Headquarters which has been rumning him and

 

 

 

which he has visited often. (On th

 

previous trip

 

on the QUIOPS-1 ca

@ occasion of my

s¢, GROWERY haa voiced
his doubts about the whole grove and specifically abouk

 

and his connection with UNSNATU-19.}) At issue are tvo bagic

poiats, the knowledge on the park of UNSHAFO-19
connection with AMYHIP-1 and

the charge that Ab

2 bok RURARK
W?HIB-T has heen

 

   

defrauding KURPARK in the jewelry transaction. Also to be hept

im mind is the fact that ODENVY bas an of
well might have been informed of the alle
have been asked for comments - although ©
has been to stay away from any imvestigation of other gc

   
 

 

 

 

ica which

 

¥f policy always

 

agencies unless specifically directed by the Aktorney General

to investignte.

 

0003668

of whom we learn

Assassination,

(This is even more the case

and Headquarters “S

  

AIP-1

tions and which mish:

meh

 

 
 

' Seen involved indirectly because of reporting py its sources

‘soles played by those involved with him in the ANLASH operation
His dealings vith UNSNAYU-19 also wlll be coverad. Following -
| this, an LCYLUTTER examination ia planned. This may help. BO
determine whether he has been truthful in his reporting, —

 

 

 

C, Criticism of the — Criticism of

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
    
 
  
  
 
   
  

the lby the ANLASH gronp is not new, AMLASH-2
and ~3 were and wanted direct contact, but the

 

Station has had reservations about seeing them. The Station has

about and involvement of Station taryets with both tha AMLASH

and AMWORLD operations (both handled from Headquarters).

(See +2982 (iN 72256) and ~2993 (iN 73094) (both RYBAT). dy.

Meetings among GQUSPORT, QUSWI7T-1, AMWMIP-~1 and ANLASH figures
conilicting reports which previously were discussed at

jand at Headquarters. Insofar as GROWERY hiswelfY is |

concerned, it must be kept in mind that he is & natural tarzat

on whom the AMLASH group would be inclined to focus i

plaints. With regard to the specific complaint about

GROWERY has identiziled her as QUSYIFT-7. and has reported that

no staffer from the Station ever had contact with her.

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Further involvement of ESPINCSA:. Gn 16 June ODENVY
notified KUBARE at New York that AWLASH-2 had telephoned
ESPINOSA to ask whether he had succeeded in contacting “the | ;
prover people” ~ 1.9., responsible KUBARK representatives - aad woe
to request notice of the resulting arrangements. :

: 5. AMVHID-1: Our plan call 3 for meeting him next weels
to obtain PR information and to obtain clarification of the

 

 

 

Wa/C/SP

 

0003669
