0 'e a ae

 

  
     

Inside W. ashingfon :

OO ——

 

 

 

A Withheld Vital |
CIA Withheld Vita
oo By ROBERT S. ALLEN clals who actively oppose Je

And PAUL SCOTT “Soviet policies, “-

  

dismissal of such persons }i

      

guid ¢
West- from public office, at oth. form. The

oo 2 = arricial, reds of er times even having -within™ sec
é ag ly op. | them’ ‘eliminated’ - physl - autopsy wo
o-The Central Intelli. suppressed e i i Russia cally. Ce ' its use. XN
Bence Agency withheld -ment went intg\the a with “Such activities’ are.- Poisons hay
- Vital intelligence infor. ing details of ‘how ag. (\thi Ke t-size, gun, - known to be undertaken ed whica d
“mation from the Warren .of KGB, the Soviet eb ai\ ing only. orders against other types of fect until -
‘Commission during its in. ‘Police, are trained d3sSitom Moscow to use it. . persons in the West, not-.-after being
vestization of the assas- away with Western Tead- The Murder Weapons :ably defectors from the “thus allow
sination. of President ers, including officials in HIGHLIGHTS of the USSR. and from other - to be far fr
Kennedy. - on the U.S. and to make suppressed int eliigence countries of the Soviet. when, his ¥.
Despite the- commis. their deaths appear due estimate, which is locked bloc. oot SAT Kn

- sion’s written request for te. natural causes, . in a security area within

   
    
 

: Titled “Soviets
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.. Executive

 
  
 

 

._, “One recently reported source: has
‘all documents that might One of the KGB’s new- the tightly-guarded CIA, ' assassination technique is pneumatical
“shed light on the assas- ly devised assassination - are as follows: to electrocute an individ- poison ice

sination, CIA authorities wapons -is “a: pnumati- “It has been reported ual by luring him to which leave
failed to turn over a na- cally. operated poison ice .. that the KGB endeavors use a telephone, connect- pr other ey
_ tional intelligence esti. ‘atomizer,’- which leaves . to remove~the-.threat to ed to a high-voltage wire, Lcause ox de.
mate warning that it is .ne wound or other -evi- Soviet interests ‘posed by during a thunderstorm. = Congressi
Kremlin policy to remove denée of the cause of€-. certain members of West- | - “Another involves the gators. who
» from public office by as-- death2* oe erm governments,some- use of a pistol which that the nz
“2. sassination Western offi ’. While. times. arranging forzthe ~ projects a poison Sas in - committec

  
  

    

       

.

 

 

 

 

  
 
  
  
   

+ pA an
. able “for Study.iee noe ks
- gy Shey’ point ‘ont that
_ the State Department
Suppressed evidenre dink.”
223 Oswald “with one of

 

  

“In the Depar Dor
US.S.R, cotmtry co)

   

pressed 7 vs

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

: sed. ee
_ investigators
. tes” priate he cwas ares tying to. determing
tember, - why the CIA in its i
eps State Depsrtment assassination repest re Crier ‘
_ BiiGal’s name also ap. the State Depariment on ui
Book ore sth? Bddress Oswald's drip te eee A wo -
_ boo or a Suspacted So- City gaye details only of 4 | ya \
yet _,2225t who arrived the defector’s visit to the ee a
he US. in 1942, ae Russian embassy and not 4 4 He
sore 2 to- government the Cuban embassy. Tha 3 |: f - © 2
Congressional investi. IA sid not et see aE

jatter visit until after”
ext on aes te ee] Biers »
SB0TS 2ls0 have been Kennedy’s as asin atio:

Shocked to discover that in Datias, 7 ston

ae
Ww
cml
ioe)
Oo.

 

PACE oe ;
COPY NO» nme

 
 
