- Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in

' clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to:
OSWALD and the assassination. .

“narrative report (sée Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

‘pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo —
' well beyond what has been released to. the public thus far

 

 

SECRET = 0 4

3. . The attached report is not intended to ‘be an: ;
answer to the Fenstetwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin :
attaches to his memorandum. (I haye prepared a paragraph-—
by~paragraph refutation and comment on that article,. — ;
which I believe is more appropriately handled’ by a sepa~. |
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I. will prepare this. ¢ as
a memorandum if that is desired. » . Do

4. the point of the referenced memorandum ie ‘that
consideration should be given now to "whether or not the .
entire.matter can be fully disclosed at this. time." This
submission is designed to make it possible for you, the | _
IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been
put together in such a way that. it discloses no- cyptonyms.”

in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must.
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's .
question. To remove any question in anybody' s mind about .
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed. up
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It. -
seems to me necessary, in. reply to Mr. Belin,. that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed’ into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-.
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest —
developments in the matter, and there is an overall. index.
to facilitate reference to individual items. -{NB: . There

is only one copy of this collection; this is it-] ~ .

; 5. As noted above, one of the photographs. taken in
Mexico City .on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the
Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The  .-

the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in | , 3
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact ;
that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-

Wo
6.) In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these agke (5
reproduced in the collected documentation backing ‘up the’

 

: ba Qe. _
SECRET

 

eamarrnr eran ferns LA ate ate ieEr a ene nun ; ; i ;
PERG LE. APT PR ES PIE EE REE WARE HAE RESET Sergey oy 9 6. SRA CE RIL RE PN AB IEG GPRS OPPO LTT OT RUT APR PET IS SE TINS 21s OR C91 aT ORT Py

  
  

SECRET.

had indicated in 1 writing to DC/OPS state, that he has no

—_77"— ~ebjection- for Mr. Belin to do whatever ' ‘is desired with

these photographs at this time... It should be noted that —
Mr. Pensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by .
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
_twelve photographs, other than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that. .
he has published in The New York Review of Books article .
which, Mr. Belin. attaches to his mamorandum.) -. :

. 9. It seems: to me that whoever makes. a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.é., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz we
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the: first -
time without taking out. the background.- Obviously, none
ef these questions apply to the passage of this material ©
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself... I
think they should see the entire documentation as it.
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what ‘could
be discussed and the question of "how?" and “how much?®..
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My. personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this -
matter in a fully open and final manner,. the. better ‘off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding -
that there are still sensitive. aspects: deriving from the
fact that the operation which produced the photographs ;
was jodnthyerunewith-Mextcanglivaisom and as a consequence.

publication at this time would create. additional. problems:

at that level in Mexico. Also, it should be noted. that.
the Ambassador,. according to Win. Scott's memorandum to.”
3.C. King:on 22. November 1963.(see Item 8 in ‘the? ‘backup
documentation), allegedly played | a direct. role in-the.. —
decision to put the photographs~ into’ the hands. of the FBI.
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I ‘know, :
' ‘there has not been anything. published about this: aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions: aa
with the State Department about that aspect | of the matter.’

 

   

' -Raymon@’ G. Rocca. —

 

Attachments:
vo as stated

 
 
  

 
_entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This .

' well beyond what has been released to. the public thus far.

“is only one copy of this collection; this is it-T

: -Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the...
‘Warren Commission public record. - However, it.was intro-

taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis ="

OSWALD. and the assassination...

_.. reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the ~:
“" narrative report (see Items 25 - 27)

   
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
  
  
   
  

SEBCRER

3. The attached report is not. “intended to be an
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article. which Mr. “Belin
attaches to his memorandum. . (I haye prepared a paragraph~-
by-paragraph refutation and comment.on that article, «.
which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa
rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and T vwill prepare | this. as.
a memorandum. if.that is desired. d: ar

4. ‘The point of the ‘referenced memorandum is that
consideration should be given now to "whether or not the:

submission is designed to make it possible for you, the . .
IG and others whom you may desire to. consult :to make. this -
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been’. -;
put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. = However. its contents go -

in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must
be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about ©.
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is -backed. up (|
by copies of actual documentation from our files. It...
seems to me necessary, in. reply to Mr. Belin, that he or -
his representative review the documentation that backs up -:..
the narrative. The documentation has not been keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi
cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest —
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index:
to facilitate reference to individual items. .. [NBs There’

 

   
 
 
   
  

 

5. As noted above, | one of the photographs taken. in’

duced into that record in two cropped versions. The coe
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware_ ‘in. ; ;

the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in... :
Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact. me
that we had additional photographs of the same individual ..”

 

of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to

 
 
 
 
   

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve aifferent photo— en
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these aphr/S -. -

  
 
 
 

_Chief,, LA Division,
“SECRET.

 

 

 

 

 

TRS EEC P TOL NTI YES SIL et FAP TT HAE ARIANA, etn Seen eee Tad pew ef Soin gy A RETARD on TERN here CRORE RT MOTIONS
104-10413-10125

“SUBJECT ss: «Review of Agency Holdings: regataing

‘ interim memorandum of a few weeks B90.

ary ~ of our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case “that
_ have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by ~
“Mexico City Station on 1, 4 and 15 October 1963 of an

 

  
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
 

 

    

“2 May 1975.

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, ‘Operations Staff

Photograph of Unidentified. Individual.
‘in Mexico City published | PY the. ane
: Warren. Commission :

REFERENCE _ : Letter datea 15 April 1975 by.
a “Me. David W. Belin, Executive Director
‘of the Commission on CIA Activities.
within the United States, to < ;
. Mr. E. Henry Knoche {copy + attached to.
“accompanying report) .

 

1. This is further to, ‘and in completion. of, my

2. ‘The attachment is-a . detailed review. “in: narrative,
chronological order.~ together with appropriate | comment:

‘Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a ‘combina~

tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the. ..'.-
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a... ..
cropped version of one of the photographs of the ©
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain o
evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November.1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes. which have now made this event a cause celebre:
right down to the Present moment are detailed in the
narrative. | : . fy

 
   
   

cechar

 

EB IMPOET OE DYSON
13-00000

 

  

_twelve photographs, other than the one already published

.Of these questions apply to the passage of this material.

_ (was jointly srun with Mexican liaison:and as a consequence Ths
“publication at this ‘time would create additional problems..°°. 7.

'. decision to put the photographs into the hands of the. FBI

Attachments:
“~~ ag stated

 

 

 
 
 
  
 
  
   

“SECRET:

had indicated in writing to DC/OPS Staff, that he has-no
objection for Mr. Belin to. do whatever is desired with -
these photographs at this time.: “It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in'1971 <- 1972 was actually shown, by.”
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the

in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two. that ~..
he has published in The New York Review of Books article —
which, Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.) b

 

. 7. It seems: to me that whoever “makes: a “a@ecision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this

‘time should bear in'mind-that a subsidiary decision must _

also be made, i.é., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up.
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to ..
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first.”
time without taking out the. background. ° Obviously, none

to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself..: I:
think they should see the entire. documentation as it ag

 

. stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what could.

be discussed and the question of “how?” and “how much?®*

could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself.. My personal ©
recommendation is that the more we can say about this : 2
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off | wee
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding~ cao
that there are still sensitive aspects deriving from“the ~
fact that the operation which produced the photographs oa

 

   
 
  
   
  

 

at that level in Mexico. Also,;: it should be noted that
the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum. to.
J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item’ 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a. direct role in. the =

 

in Dallas laterally from the Field...As far as I know,.

there has not been anything published about.this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions -
with the State > Department about that aspect of. the matter.

 

 
 

SECRET

 

2 May 1975 _

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, “operations Staff

' SUBJECT ‘¢ Review of Agency Holdings regarding
: Photograph of Unidentified Individual
in Mexico City published by the»
. Warren Commission -

REFERENCE : Letter dated 15 April 1975 by” a
: . Mr. David. W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to —
Mr. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached: to.
accompanying report) .

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my ; :
, interim memorandum of a few weeks” ago. a oo L |

2. The attachment isa detailed. review: in narrative,
.: chronological order - together with appropriate comment-.. :
ary - of our. extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that’
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by:
Mexico City Station on 1, 4 and 15 October 1963 of an. ;
Unidentified Individual. As a consequence.of a ‘combina~
tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under.the .. |.
stress of an urgent desire to contribute to. the develop~
ment of the investigation of the. assassination, a
cropped version of one of the- ‘photographs of the |
Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain’ of
evidence in the OSWALD case on..23 November 1963 by. an’
FBI representative in Dallas. The successive vicissi-
tudes which have now made this. event. a cause celebre
right down to the present moment are detailed. an “the
narrative. . :

setae Aine Nee Oe Kind reek nent tate a!

OS te eee

st a ET .
; 7 ekamweer < wae

eee ote
