.

REPRUVULGY Ab BG CAS BVI Awe tee ¢

 

  

; 3 Dacesber 1963 . we
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 1 yy
. Pd

SUBJECT: Jae Harvey OSWALD LF ALVARAPO

‘ . (EE agus? Mpongee) ?

 

2 ec

; At 1010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI. advised that the
Bureau had received a cable last night from the Legal Attaché in .
Mexico City who ia in touch with our representative there. He atated .
that our representative had been inf by- ‘ofthe Sex: M
Nicaraguan Intelligence Service tha VARADO told him, that
he recen his original story becdude of fear of physical harm; that
Alvarado{was being deported from Mexico to Nicara:; oa 4 December 1963!
@agured our repre~ -
; interview in

   

  
 
 
 

Y
sentative that Alvarado vould be availabl@ for
Nicaragua if the United States denired. : :

| Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau wouna like to have him subjected

| to a polygraph exatiination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving

q word @s secon ae possible as to whether ve wil] handle the matter since
if we will not handle. it the FSI will ‘have ‘to determing what other steps

| v might be taken to sea that this 1s done. TY advised: Mrs Paupich that I
would check into the matter, that I dia net knew vhethor wa hed avallablo
at this time a polygraph operator who could properly hendlo this matter

| bat An ny Sven T'vould Jat him snow eter, Gate Sp Pe Somes

4

t

t

|

{

1

(es8SIA tector ans re tape Par ag : om n D. oneal”
ron 278 7 ; ‘hier, c1/sia

 

CLAREIERCATION REVIEW

foes ed {conoucren one 4 MAY 1976

SPPROVED FaR RELEASE 1992
CA Hist CRICAL REVIEW PROGRA

 

- 3 pecG.
- 20 1-2-4 AN3

Fad WIA S66T oa -7aq : Grzateet@e + “ON SNOHd THIOL NELIMSN 2 OS
13-00000

26d

ef

Wier: @t Seat cA-laq SPCSTeLTAL 2 "ON SNOHd “HMOL NELIMSN

. Addendum

‘interest in Oswald*s own: enectares} in the U SSR, that we showed operation

 

28 November 1963.

+», oe

SUBJECT: Mr, Lee Harvey Oswald ~ APPROVED } 9

0 : TS

1. It makes Little difference now, but EBBBMgghad at one time: an
OI interest in Oswald. As soon as I had heard OswalB's nane, I recalled

that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed ~- sometime in Summer. 1960 ~~ Gt

with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of “the 6 Research Section the laydng
on of interview(s) chroush or other suitable channels, At the
moment I don‘t recall if this was discussed while Oswald and his family
were en route to our country ‘of if it was after their arrival,

a. =&F remember that Oswald's unusual behavior in the USSR had struck

me from the moment I had read the first St=te. dispatch on him, and
told my subordinates something amounting to "Don't push tea hard ta get
the information we need, because this individual looks odd." | We were
particularly interested in the OF Oswatd might provide on thg' Minsk
factory in which ho had been employed, on certain sections of the city
itself, and of course we sought the usual BI that might help develop
target personality. dossiers. : ugh Lo,

3. I was phasing into my HERERE==teone, , Ta, 2
the time, Thus, I would have left our country shortly after Oswald's artival.
I do not know what action developed thereafter,

it

  

4, As an afterthought, I recall also that at the time I was becoming
increasingly interested in watching develop a pattern. that we hadjdiscovered
in the course of our bio and research work in 6: the. number of Soviet

women marrying foreigners, being permitted to leave the USSR, then eventually
divorcing their Spouses and settling down abroad ‘without returning “home,
The ‘eee caso was among the first of | these, and we eventually turned -

up somothing. Like two dozen similar cases. Wo eetablished links’ between .
some of these women and the KGB; ° became interested in the developing
trond we hud come across, It was partly out of curiosity to learn if ~~
Oswald's wife would actually accompany him to our country, partly out: of .

intel. igence interest in the/flarvey story,

? T.B.C.

e- ¢

 

 

PROVED FOR RELEASE
-CINHISTORICAL REMEW Puocnaw

v

1 wn 4

e

a me eee a ee nen ee ee ee a ee
13-00000

TAS WHSP IAT SAR CA *9ey Seezotzs TAC + “ON SNOK

December 3, 1993
Memorandum for the Director;
Center for Studies in Intelligence,
Central Intelligence Agency
Attn: Mr. John Pereira
FAX: 703-243-8343

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon yesterday with Dave Gries and with John
Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed by the Agency, and to
respond to John's request for documents which may having bearing on this
issue.

First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency personnel
with whom I have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the
infamous “debrief.” It strains credibility that the Agency would purposely
persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact it had a copy of it
somewhere in its extensive -- if sometimes sloppy -- records system. It

would have been found by 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;

rather it is whether it occurred in the past and was destroyed.

We can all talk, theorize : and argue over what it might mean later. For now
the task at harid is simply to take all necessaty steps to find out. I urge

extreme caution in stating, flatly that there was no debrief until such steps

have been thoroughly exhausted. I was surprised to find out after the.
FRONTLINE documentary aired, for example, that there will be some new
pieces on this subject i in v the not too distant future, _

T attach a copy of CIA document number 435-1734, attachment, memo
dated 25 November 1963, by a'"T-B.C.", whom I believe might be one Mr.

Tom Comier, possibly a former head of SR6 Branch, Soviet Russia Division,
_ at the time Tee Harvey. Oswald retuned to the US in the Summer of 1962.

T.B.C. stated he discussed the laying < on of interviews with Oswald, either

‘while he: was en route or after his arrival. Because T.B.C. made a

typographical error when he typed "1960" instead of "1962", the LISCA
foolishly dismissed the veracity of this entire document.

“LL YO NHLIMSN of

Wau 4s
13-00000

EAe4

WHAP IAT SBRT Ca Taq GPFATZ! TAS 2 CON ANT

Tattach a copy of CIA decument number 287-690, memo for record, dated
3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch BD. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee
Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the
reverse handwriting in the upper right hand comer that is pertinent to the
issue at hand. That handwriting appears to be: "Andy Anderson OO on
Oswald."

 

  
  

Irefer you to Mr_ _¥a CIA employee in the Contacts
Division in 1962, who to ‘A in 1978 that he read Anderson's debriof
and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today
what he has been saying for 30 years oes not have a book
and shuns any publicity -- it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get him to
agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any
personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it
because he remembers reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with D Then I would find all
surviving members of CD/GO/Support Branch. It did not take us long to
figure out that this branch interfaced with the ficld officcs of the Contacts
Division. While this will not turn up a piece of paper, I think you will find
some answers there.

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer,
and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aired, and
confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. I doubt if this
is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a notc
stating what you find out.

Sincerely, an
Dr. John M. Newman

1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113
FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131
Cattach a copy of CIA document number 287-690, memo for record, dated
3 December 1963, by Mr. Birch D. O'Neal, Chief, CI/SIG, Subject: Lee
Harvey Oswald. O'Neal's memo is about polygraphing Alvarado, but it is the

_reverse handwriting in the upper right hand comer that is pertinent to the

issue at hand: That handwriting appears to be: “Andy Anderson OO on
Oswald.”

refer you to Mr[ a CIA employee in the Contacts

Division in 1962, who told the HSCA in 1978 that he read Anderson's debrief
and described its contents to his HSCA interlocutors. He will tell you today
what he has been saying for 30 years.(~ ‘oes not have a book
and shunis any publicity - it took FRONTLINE almost a year to get him to
agree to an interview on the record. He says what he says not for any —
personal gain because there is none, there is only disrepute. He says it
because he remembers. reading the debrief.

If I were you, I would first have a long talk with Pon] Then I would find alll

surviving members of CD/OO/Support Branch. It did not take us long to.
figure out that this branch interfaced with the ficld offices of the Contacts
Division. While this will not tum up a piece of paper, I think you will find
some answers there. ,

As an aside: a Mr. Roe F. Anderson was listed in the CIRA obit this summer,
and his son Richard called me after the FRONTLINE documentary aired, and
confirmed his father, a Navy officer, had worked for the CIA. I doubt if this
is our Anderson, but you might check all the same. I would appreciate a note
stating what you find out.

vem

Sincerely,

Dr. John M. Newman

1019 Summer Hill Drive, Odenton MD, 21113 |
FAX (home): 410-672-7251; (H) 301-621-0576; (W) 410-859-6131

“antag aie hd
104-10334-10237

TAd WHO IAT CGGT TAcaad : CEFATE TAC 7 COR TITLE

 

ae Intelligence. Agency GANAS No ObecTIN TO

‘Attn: Mr, Jom Pereira 7, E “CATION AND/OR

FAX: 703-243-8343 “Lvtience “CIA INFORMATION
> Ul :

 

me ; . December 3, 1993
Memorandum for the Director, ,
Center for Studies in Intelligence,

        
        

Subject: CIA Files on Lee Harvey Oswald

This is to acknowledge my telecon. | yesterday with Dave Gries and with Jobn
Pereira re issue of whether Oswald was ever debriefed. by the Agency, and to
respond to John’ s Fequest for documents which’ may having bearing, on this —
issue...

First, a point of order. It is my belief and the belief of the Agency. personnel
with whom I have discussed this matter, that your files should not contain the
infamous “debrief.” It strains credibility that the Agency would purposely
persist in saying there was no debrief when in fact. it had a copy of it
somewhere in its extensive — if sometimes sloppy--- - records system. It

- would have been found by. 1993. The issue is not whether you have it now;

rather it is whether ut occurred i ine the past and ¥ was: ‘destroyed.

       
 
   
 

“We.can al talk, ‘theorize g ond 3 argue over ‘what it: might n amean later. For now

and is simply | to take all. nay mis to. find out. I UTES

s t Russia Division,
t Summer of 1962.

ap! Of:
foolishly dismissed the veracity. ‘of this: ‘entire document.

Lp ormame Re eamoar Ot

tO!
£@d

‘interest in Oswald's own oxperjfen é int
- {Intelligence interest in they

LSP GT SAT CA ‘IAG SPESTELTAL : “ON SNOHa “WW4OD NOMEN 2 wos 4

     

REPRODUCED AT. THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES 1)

28 November 1963. _

on ors

SUBJECT: Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald ; -ABPROVED FOR FOR RELEASE 1999
o CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PRocRAM

1. It makes Little difference now, but eed at one time an.
OI interest in Oswald. As. soon as I had heard OswalS’s name, I reealled
that as Chief of the 6 Branch I hed discussed: ~~: sometime in-Summer.1960 -- Ce +e
with the then Chief. and Deputy Chief ofthe 6 Research Section the laydng y
on of interview(s) chroush other suitable channels, At. the e
moment I don't recall 4£ this was discussed while Oswald and his family no
were en route to our country of If it was after their: arrival. :

 

-

2 OF rengmbor that. Oswald's ‘unusual behavior’ in the USSR had struck
me from the moment I had read the ‘first State. dispatch on him, and I
told my subordinates something amounting to “Don’t push too hard to get
the information we need, because this individual looks odd," | We were
particularly interested inthe Of Oswatd might, provide on thf Minsk.
factory in which ho had been employed, on: certain sections of the city
iteelf, and of courge we. sought the usual BI that might. help: develop
target "personality dossiers. ant

3. I was phasing into ay MEBANE =sterncnc, , at
tho time.. Thus, I would‘have left our country sho: ly after: ‘Oswald's artival.
I do not know. what action devetoped thereafter, : 1

  
  
  
  
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
  

Addendum .

a As an afterthought, r recall also tha
increasingly intorosted in v
in the course of our 'b
woman marrying foreign

divorcing their’ spouse
a ee
some of these women cand. the KGB.

trend wo hud coma across. It: was partly: “ou
Oswald's wife would actually accompany. ‘him.

ecoming
had/discovered

. then. eventually
curing “home”,
wentually turned -

Tc ee cee ee eee ete enn ee se La lo a gen oo
LEE CU Rees AB AbbEs EMRE GWETENED MVEA VES @

 

  

%
‘3 Dacember 1963 % ve
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD ‘  Y y
oo, JY
SUBJECT < Lee Harvey OSw. LoFf ALVARADO

y a Mpely Le,
a fer a4 est 3 e 1 ye —_--—__-

At 1010 hours on 3 ‘December, Mr. Papich of the FBI advised that the
Bureau had received a cable last nigit from the Lege] Attache in
Mexico ‘City who is in touch with ow representative. there. He atated
that our representative had been inf by
. Niceraguan Intelligence Service that LVARADO told him, ;
: he xecant his original story, bec use Of fear of physical harm; that

    
   

a re @uaured our Fepre~~
sentative that. Alvarado vould be available Sor" interview in
Nicaragua if the United States deatred, : .

Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau would ibe to have him subjected
toa polygraph examination by this agency and would appreciate seosiving

   

"foppoven FOR RELEASE 1992
CIA HISTERICAL Review PROCRA

a 3. pecG3.
- . 2o\-2-84943

: , * 2 wn
rad Wher :al feet cased Grzaiz2T@l 2 CON SNOW 1 U4OL NEHMSN © WO4d
