74-0000

 

ry,

9 make money ani who wlll do anything for roney., You should
i) not trust hiri hut you do. For example, he told you thathe
88 the confidence of Anb-sandor CAQKILLO in Haris, that
he could Lecore better iriends with CARRILLO ir you supnlied
, money with which to buy confiscated jowolry from CARRILLO.
s+... SO you gave EREXXXENX the money, the amount TEFEDINO asked

  

5 of for, TEPEDINO faid less for the fewaary to CARRILLO, TEPEDINO
Po a Yk made a nice profit for hinsélf, and CARRILLO thoughtit

i on all very funny. GARRILLO told Sriends that he knows that
bowl, TSFEDINO is working for you CIA people and won't tell

i

TSPEDINO anything which CARRILLO aoes not want you to hear,
GASRILLO told all this to El Loco MLance. . cee eee

- Also you should know that TEPEDINO tells you that he agrees
with you but when he is with others who criticize you hetells
:_. them that he agrees with them. “e has heen acting as 4

 
    
 
 
   
    
  
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sénnection with this plot. ‘this 4s because CUTELAS trusted

ndo and myself. we double dated, fought and .
| i: Plotted together. -This TEPEDINO ts differeyxnt , He is out
“out to make money. He has been telling Rolando's friends
over a period of time that he has CIA contacts and ean get
~~"anything needed from the CIA. ~e has not come throughs
They want nothing else to do with him. oe

 

Another of your poople-is Biche. BERNAL who works ror
.in Nadrid. “BERNAL Was Cuban military attache in Jap
whe defectod, absconding with $14,000,:.a11 of which he kept
~“;for himself and none of which he contributed to tho sountor~
“revolutionary cause. This is the kindof person whom you
“trust sud whom we do: note a
About your Paris:people, Bob, Dick and Maureen who is Dick's
secretary, there is no complaint in particular. Maureen
‘does not Imow when she is ‘being kidded, Luis TRASENCOS and
Bl Loco BLANCO saw her in Paris. “They jokingly asked ifshe
ba-96 ‘ox the Soviets-for twice what you people are .
eiter>* She paled and swallowed tho story. After
* EL Loco told me the story, I.talkec to. Maureen, I conf irmed
‘it. Maureen is the go-batween for Luis Trasencos and
“Disk. The problem is that we can't be sure that we oan’ get
«the story from /Rolando CUBELAS to the CTA chicts by using
---eyour Paris people. We don't want Lula TuASENCOS or Luis
"FERNANDEZ to know moro than they need. ' This -is ijuetb good
~-bBeourity. They know enough about the general plan but .
(they need not know details. - es cobs
PPL. eee ios : F oo: Be
Ythers who Imow quite a bit are ARTIME.AND his aldo, QUINTEROS,:
wot dont s think 4t¢ good that AKTIIE should. be too involvedbut of
soa

 
 

QUBELAS noeded somo help. GUBELAS met both ARTINE and

-s TBPLDINO in Europe. — They agreed on a. fow refnrence pointy
on the north conat of Guba as possible exfiltration places

from which AUTIME sould pick Up OULLLAS! poople if something

O08 wrongs .Also.-ARTINE RAYS Bomothing .to - P
Stns took bak. to Cuba“tn his bags (ova) es whieh

aan em estas at einai cnivemeempmecenereem SRRANTE RON Riese een aA i IT NONE RNA Habe apt

 

    

 

Supposed internediary between you and Rolando CUSELAS in 9 7

_ [oS SBPEDINO as-an old friend. “et me explain that this oo
mo os aa _TEPSDINO is an older guy so the friendship 1s not. like tthat
oe a "between Rola :

   
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
   
    
 

 

 

 

 
74-00000

 

-I'do not Inow whether it wos a wadio or not but yor people
-;0ught to see to it that CLEELAS does have a radio so he can
commnicate with you. ; ot

   

‘A little about myself: I have some money. My family managed
to get quite a bit out of Cuba. We are trying te cet the. :
rest of the family, my grandmother and my uncle out. Thhey — "
live at 15th and Linea in Vedado, “abana. by grandmother is : ,
Juana IRIVARKEN and my uncle is Pedro HESNANDEZ. They are _
supposed to have gotten visas for Spain :nd to be getting 5 ——

“exit permits but we have been hearing. this for some time. a -
I used my own money to buy passage for El Mago betwee i

. Kadrid and Yaris and to pay my own expenses. *

    
 
 
         
     
         

El Hago does not work but his girl, Sonia by whom he has al or
ehild, is working as a dancer in-Spain se he dees prettywell
5 ~ te on her earnings. His wife and two children are in

     
 

 

ami now.: His father, a fine guy and. good newsman, is
are - “ew York someplace... - ee pee be bp aS

I. have done my part in getting word to you. +f you wantme
to do something, let-me know, If + get any further word
211 get in touch with the FBI here, Frank O'BRIEN, and he. . -
will let you: know so you can meet-mee’ I have told all of
this only to INS, the PBI and you. Iam not going to say...

      
    
    
   
     

   

 

lof wax. ‘The foreguing -
account speaks for itself. laybe the CUBELAS boys
—&F® sincere and will act, maybe they are just >
1) talking, maybe this 1s a provocation. If you want
———— to. find out all that El Hago knows, it probably.

W211 be nocossary for a staffer to spend time with
. Bane The adrid Station was not serene HY do

| whon Iwas there laste.
“atleg ESPIVOSA xf nautl Herene

 
 
 

  

    
 
 

   
   
     

 

    
yg-o0009

Va Lim off tor re and I showed her the bullet wound in, ry leg

4 that I had because I was fighting CASTHO ang those with hin
nm Like Rolando. Afterwards I did not hear from Rolando until
: just a little while ago.

 

It was in Kay when I got a letter fron an ola ‘friend, Lits : a
we FERKANDEZ)~/he had written to me before to let me Jmow that cee
. « he is working for the CIA in Paris, This letter in Hay was
ve pretty. confusing but Luis made it clear. that there was sole
something very important, that it involved Rolando CUBELAS, . ome
that Rolando wanted me to-go to Paris on an urgent matter, Sop at
and that another friend, Luis Trasencos, knew something . .
. about it. The letter said that the GIA kmew about this i
: and that Luis FERNANDEZ thought maybe the GIA already had
es ._ told me to go to Paris, although he was not sure.

 

 

 

we

t .
oe eee I decided to go to Paris because of the mention of Rolandoe _; ad a
. The CIA had taken my old Cuban passport when I was in i pons
_ __training in Guatemala and nefer returned 1t. Also, because
: . £ got cauvht when I tried to bomb Cuba, the INS had warned .
me not to travel outside’ the U.S. saying I gould go to jail
for five years and + could not get a reentry permit and all
that. However, I checked with and INS officer who knew me» _
§ said that probably the INS was not so. interested: in me
anymore and I probably could get a reentry. Because the
~detter was so pressing in my travell at onee, I decided ©
“ net to go through a-lot-of red tape. i went to Plorida
to 866 my brother, Rene, residing.at 5000 Sw. 69th Avenye, ~~
. Miami. arranged through some friends whom I.don!t. mow
es 2 get me a false Cuban passport, (Note: The pp has
---""“gumber 423335, is. dated 19 November 196), bears” the true
—+——— name of the source, and has entry and de-arture cachets
ne -' for London on-li, °7, 10. arid 21 May 65/; for Le Bourget on
— FT an@ 21 May; and for Orly on 29° May65). I bought a ticket” ©
- . and left for” Yaris. without having any trouble. Iam.not —. bog
gure about the dates and the sequence of travel. because = 9 ~0T™
‘everything was so hurried, I went to London as well as to ;
*aris and I-tried to go to Spain but had to turn. back.
Anyway I remeber the important things.

weer PUTO MEE aE hectic
. i

  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
 
  
  

 

 

     

 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  

at Paris 1 telephoned Luis TRASENCOS who ‘invited me” ‘to

lunch in his apartment. When 1 got there, I. found Alberto
BLANCO, "El Locc”,.whom I have known.sinee early 1959 and -
whom I considered a traitore I called “uis aside to tell
him this but +uis explained that RLANCO was instructed by 4
Reiando OUBELAS «2 sce me, that Loco and Rolando are: against ;
- CASTRO, and that my seeing Loco was the reason that 1t was
: ——80 urgent for me to some to Parise :

 

 

..Rolando GUBELAS had been in Paria 2 couple of months canter
and, according to Wl Looe, had loft a lottor instructing
nsseeumrwae BO Loeo to get word to me personally and asking that I get

.4n touch with the GIA‘on the hirhest level. El Leco did
met have the letter with him but I..believe it. I kmow that
Qubans are linrs and pxarferate and are inseoure and all

hat is (pong about them put I know what is yood about
an w to cheak on.thinva, So I cross queetionsd
Bl Looo and others nb? I was sure. ‘that Shy old he the

    

 

 

 

em

    
 

104-4 0469-10259

 

 

 

oo EYES is)
To: John Haft . .
From: Hal swenson psn i. de Re

9 PUR
Ow Becky sen TO ia
Cc

une U
, Not Beesoauce

Subj: CIA OPS AND PLOT TO KILL FIDEL C.STRO, RAUL casThO°CUGg | _ oo fo,

AND OTHER. KEY FIGURES OF THE PRESENT RSGIKE IN CUBA . !

Source: Victor ESPINOSA Hernandez (201-2351)7), born 26 en ; 7°
... August 1937 in Cardenas, Hatanzas, Cuba, a PE trainee wm RF
was terminated as a malcontent on 20-Karch 1961. Present
1

 

_-address igs 415 East 52 Street, NYCZ, where his telephone
is NA 1 7375.

    
  
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  

““Supplemental Data: ESPINOSA flew-Air France from Orly
Airport (confirmed by cachet in pp) on 29 May 65 and on

““~"“arrival in NYC the same day contacted an INS Agent named
GAVASANJIAN (Phonetic) who , on the basis of information
“iv the story of ESPINOSA which appeared to affect U.S.

security, notified the FBI. Special Agent Frank O' ORIEN ;
“-Or the NY Field Office of the FBF* interviewed ESPINOSA = ~~”
-on 2 May 65. The FBI notified US oa 3 May. I.saw _

“ESPINOSA on h May in the NY field office of the FBI.
Frank O'BRIEN was present. (O'BRIEN said that INS at
Washington, DC apparently had received a report and
- Rad notified FBI headquarters frémwhich a supervisor.
po m—en-ad: telephoned O'BRIEN to inquire whether O'BRIEN knew
\/ .*. about aspects of ESPINOSA's atory w a
“-4~--- allegations about the CIA, includin;

  
   
 

        
 

| Paraphrase of the source's story: __ 1 do not have a high .
‘ pegard for the CIA or for most of “the exiled Cubans but’ -
-; Zam egainst the Castro regimefor which reason I have
become involved in these matter about which I must be
sure the CIA is informed. I contacted the INS and the
_ FBI because through them I could enaure contact with a
-Pesponsible CIA officer. Fn ie nese seme stam

   
   
    

I Was a good friend of Rolando CUBELAS. We conspired |
J together against BATISTA and we planned assassinitions
. 0@ Batista supporters, We carried out the killing of
one of the SIM chiefs, #ide-@atan, successfully-. A lot
tho things the the. anti-HATISTA students did were not
effective but we did more than talk and this old .
, gesansination 4s proof that people like Rolando and myself
Oe :

 

  

i

After GASTRO took over I loft duba and engaged in anti-Gastro
activities. I got shot in the process, I was betrayed by
Some of the Ouban oxilea whon I was going to bomb Guba, -
Z saw how the OLA bungled and I became bittor.e I was bitter
about Rolando too. I thought that he had turned communist.
Z sent him a mossece a leng tims ago, tolling him that he
Was a traitor and no friend of mine, That-was when a an .
from ioan atewardons whom he liked came to me with a meveage
from about how he waa still a frlend of mine and
were nob like they semmed, I got mad and told her totele

 

 
 

weiner er

 

 

    
74-00000

 

 

 

truth, dnat I an telling you is what I fo out fron

EL Loco, confirred late@® throuch Eli-nco RO O, and
confirmed in part through questioning others who ‘mow
parts of the story but not all of it,

 

   

Rolando CUBELAS plans to k11l Fiéal and Raul CASTRO and i
other key men in the regime. Rolando has a house at seen

‘ * Veradero Beach adjacent to the house of Fidel, so it is &
@asy for Rolando to feet Fidel anytime. The idea is not oe

. Just to kill Fidel rut to change everytlitag in Cuba so (

.g Rolando has the cooperation of other peoplewhose names a 1
‘gi do not inow kar except for El “oco Blanco and El Haro : {
Robreno and ALMEIDA, Rolanfdo is very security conscdaus poo

so he does not want People involved to know any more than : i
is necessary, You must understand the d:

   
    
     
       
    

 

(

 

 

nd are trustworthy). =<!
insofar as he 1s concerned. El Loco is back inside Cuba NOW. a
El Mago Robreno is in Madrid and can get messaces in andout. ~:! oo
is responsible. for killing many of ny friends and he : os
kicked their dead bodies afterwards so 1 do not like himang..-.—-—
maybe later I shall kill. him but for now + believe thathe :
is useful and can.be trusted Yor the matters which -invélve
Rolando and the plot against Fidel CASTRO.

Some of the CIA people are nottrustworthy, This is what
others Rolando CURELAS and EL Loco and.El Mago and me too...
This is why Rolando wantz me. to get his message through, :
“@ wants an answer fast. The message is that CUBELAS and
the others with him are able to kill Fidel and others in
ethe regime, but they need some help and they need to know
whether the CIA and the U.S. Governemnt abe with them and :
owllling to support. them or, ret. £3 erie affirmative, _ a
: ? : Steed-so-forth, =."
aye -tint he cannot delay
That is the maximum. Cban

scurity forces would find out and arrest. everyone if there |
Loco and El Kago .

They did not say i
but I supross I can 1
ly to hadrid to give it in person and, if you want, oneof :
I myself suspect that Rolando will D
e I believe that

because all the chief targets will
.b@. anserivied. so it'will be caster to get them all fast, but =
Rolando did not sand me this as hds plan, :

. El Loco and El tnvo have accoss to any Cuban Enbassy in Edrdyg
._Burope and those embassies are engaged in contaatea with .
Sommunists and in-nubversion, ‘the game applies to embussies
iwi SH Africa, El Looe and Hl Ingo oould have boon rmiving you
ra _Valuablo information all along. Yet your copla- a

an, BOOUPL LY games and do net ung nacple - ike thie, E Leadyou
“Wee “UNLPAl able and risky peonle, - ‘ : .

   
   

anme money,

mething because

 

he needs to knowyourst:
a
8
a
§
°
a
Pl
2
Ss
as
3S
g
rad
Pa
&
34
5
5
a
=
oS
Fa
a
2
Pp
3
Fo
é
os
3
fom

Also! he might need

od. fe
will nee
d or 60)

a]

af
t

o1
a

“¢

An:

or some

  

        

someone to 8
3 Rolando

 

e to be bought.

  
 

oa agree to support hi?

20 wild Ben

  
 
 

Among other t!
Guban not American,

olan

ify

            
   
  

 

1
q
ry
2
“3
re
be
9
a
st
Ff
FJ
Ey
et
ra
fs)
“4
g
3
c)
Ey
os
eS

   
  
      
      
        

 
 

4
}
i

 

   

     

   

 

 
 

had codes, ciphers and microfilm to prove this and ke showed --
them to one of your peoyle in Madrid. what better proefdo .
you want? what did you do about it? Nothing. Yet this

man, a member of Cuban Security, offered to work as a double . ;
for you and he tried to tell you about Rolnandots plot. 5 ;
Now he is bak in Guba.. As the result of his frustration veep oe
over your attitude, he was in terrible mental state when

2 saw him. 4ad I been your people in the CIA, I'd not h ave
let him return that ways In his upset he could do something
. Pash which might blow the whole operation. :

uv. Leco was in Surope as an officer of Cuban Security. He ‘
ces |

    
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
   
    
   
    
 
 
  
      

El Mago Robreno is a delinquent. He shot an American inCuba
over some private disagreemnet. Fe shot a police officer,
.p® beat up his wife, now hig ex-wife. This is apart from
Eis killings on behalf of CASTRO in the t#ials of counter.
.. revolutionaries, This is why Fidel wanted Robreno out of.
Cuba. Robreno is a delinquent, a trouble maker and an
embarrassment, In the Cuban embassies in EBurope,. they

So ‘they do not want trouble. and they see him,
They do not bs: lieve. that. is conter revolutionary or Plotting _.
against the regime, He is-useful, = - - a ~

 

 
 
    
  
   
 
     
   
  
     
   
      
  
 
  
  
  
    
     
    
 

~E'sent El Mago a ticket so he ‘could travel from hadrid to

‘aris to see me. This is-because your people in Paris bee ee ee tae
“seid that thoy could not hekp me get a visa to Spain and
: -; because when tried to enter Spain illegally I ran into oe:
“Ty treuble-and turned back, As Isaid bofore, I wanted to :

7 get confirmation of what EL Loco had told m6e El Mago
confirmed everything. ens aot

 

———-Now to mention the problems abo:

: t these are Indidental-to tt.
staan HE CH Ls to Bive

 

ut your people, I must exlain |

«6 real reason for scein you
you the message from Rolando. I did ‘2.cha te
Rolando said that he did not t: and did”
not want to see him even thoy, anted to meet

: n Holando was in spe Last. have known soe
for years, since he was in -Habana-and belonged -
@dado Vennis Club arid was di unk by three. p,.

 

 

 

  

 

She is working for the regime and (ari iBRson Toil -
Her nickname 1e Tota,

* to UB except that
thelr lives against Cuatro do not confide

Do not confuse Tota with Boba, anothor
ond of

~.9Uhio Lobos. ho is divorey ron a friend of mine. She ~~
ng Mh eal nd she 16 all right.
aya tha

ne OIA chief tor Spain and  -----
FA0de Some ehlof) : : an Lo

 

 
  

 

Another one of your people. whom my friends: do ‘not truant and
. } whors z do Tet truest A pees WEPEDINOs-.-lle haa a Jewelry -

|. Shop here tn around h7th Strant. I gol hin so
fF MY Paintinya sometime backs ‘hig is a man who te but a

 

meat car eige ant is en ete

   

   

 

3/ Qh
