 

 

reply. On 15 June Mr. Robert A. Hurwitch of the Mepartment of
State telephoned Manuel Antonio de VARONA y Loredo to inquire
about thie incident. VARONA was not familiar with the matter
and referred the query to DESFAIGNE. However, VARONA also
iaformed Col. Johnson, who telephoned Atr. Hurwitch on 15 June
aod explained the background. kir. Hurwitch told Col. Johneon
that he was concerned that too much talk by Cubans might |
jeopardize the U. S. Army program now under consideration,

3. In commenting on the reporis in the attached summary,

Col. Johnaon stated that MIRC has been urging the Cuban exile
groupa to encourage thelr man to enlist in the U. 5S, Army but
that the arguments reportedly used in Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the
attachment are completely contrary to the inatructions he gave
MIRO, In MIRO's absence Col. Johnson discussed this mater

cwith VARONA, who denied that such arguments are being used.
VARONA stated that his group (Movimiento de Reacate Constitu- —~
clonal Damocratico) had decided six months ago to aeelst inthe ~
enforcement of the registration regulations of the Selective
Service System and to encourage ite membere to join the U. 5,
Army. VARONA further reported that this program had not
gotten started-until June but that he bas a Ifet of 600 membera,
1A te 36 years of azge, who are potential military matertal.
According to VARONA, hia group now plana to determine how
many of these have actually registered and/or enlisted.

4. Col, Johnson also commented that he had been, informed
by the U. S. Army recruiting office in Miarni that all aliens must
register ix months sfter arrival in the United Statea and that the
Selective Service System then assigns such registrants tu local
boards for classification and further action, From the informa.
tion now available it le not clear whether the reported accivities
of the Movimiento de Rescate Constitucional Democratico are in
support of registration or actual enlistment.

5. As reflected by the information contained In Paragraph 2. a.

above, and in some of the reports summarized in the attachment,
there ie obviously misunderstanding within the Cuban community
concerning the existing policy on Cuban enlistments in the U. S,

SustTl iE

Sepnel
 

[td-t0228-10091

‘

SECREI -
SFHOITIVE /9- yy Y-I5/ 3

19 June 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadier Ceneral E. G. Lansdale

SUBJECT : U.S. Army Ealletment Program for Cubans

1. Attached for your faformation is_a summary of reporte on
recrulement for the U. 5. Army-by Cuban ealle Broupe inthe Miami

area,

2. Also of interest in thie connection te the following addftional
information;

a. Col. Wendell U. Johnson, our contact with Dr. Joee
MIRO Cardona, hap been informed by MIRG's secretary, Ascension
Cadavieco FEREZ, that twenty-one mombera of the Democratic
Christian Movement went to the Caribbean Admission Center on

12 June 1962 to anliet in the U. 8, Army at the office of iat Le.
Fernando Crdaa. They wero told, according to PEREZ, that

ie. Ordas was no longer at the Caribbean Admieston Centar and
that the Cuban enlistment activities were “winding up," PEREZ told
Col. Johnson on 15 June that the eame group had subsequently gone
to the main U. S, Army recruiting office in the ‘fam! area to enlist.
‘they reported that they were told that they could not be accezted
because they did not meet the Engiteb language requirement and that,
if they had been accepted for eallatment, they could be stationed out-
side the United frares. ,

b. In collecting information concerning Cubans who might
be eligible for United States milltary training, Capt. Ernesto
DESPAIGNE Perez, Military Coordinator for the Cuban Revolutionary
Council, contacted a group of former Cuban pllote in the Miam! area.
44a result of this contact, 3 representative of this group telephoned
the Cffice of tha Secretary of Defense on or about ti June 1964 to ask
if they were to be given milltary training s0on and received a negative

CHAStTVE
SeURET
 

SECRET
SENSITIVE

Army. Although it te understood that the program now being
considered for the future will not assure Cuban enlistees that
they will aot be sent outside the United States, both MIRO and
Col. Johnsen have understood that the exteting agreement ia
that Cubans who have already ealisted or who enlist before
3G June 1962 will not be sent cutside the United States. Thore
{s also some confusion about the language requirements for
Cuban enlistees under the present program, In order to deal
with theae questions, our representatives tn Miami urgently
need clarification of the existing official policy on Cuban en-

_ Ustments, both for those who have already enlisted and for
those who may enlist before the new programm is undertaken,
It would also be of great agsistance if you could provide infor-
ination on the new progosed program, I will appreciate it if
you will furnish this office with the above information and with
aa indication of what portions of it we may pase on to ALUIRO for
his guidance.

SIGNED

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

Attachment + Summary

DDj)P/TFW/Asst. Execf ——_bh (19 June 1962)

Distribution: :
Orig. & | - Addressee
1-C/TEW . orate.
L-TRW/Exec _ wy /att.
1< TEW/PA/Prop. y/ate,

SENSITIVE
Sioned
