 

 

 

_habal€ of Fidel Castro during the revolt against Batista.
/ , following Gagtra's wietory he had gore to Havana,

   
     
  

6. Mexola then atated that he had heen actively engaged in gunrunning in
He stated that

and had bean received warmly
by Bidel Gastro and Camilo Cienfuegos. He furnished some detaile concerning

these contacts, as well as his contact with Colonel "Johnnie" Abbes, head of

| the Dominican secret police also a contact of his, which are being forwarded

dm report form,

Lo, 2. Mexola also indicated that he is very well acquainted with Antonio
de Warona, head of the FRD, and felt that he would be able to provide definite

_ assistance to the Frente should he be called upon. He has a 63-foot. boat
awailable which he would not be adverse to "lending" to his friends.

-&. He also“mentioned that he realizes that we are not in a position
to be “persuasive” with Castro agents in Miami, or with firms making clandestine
shipments to Cuba via the British West Indles, Mexico or Canada. Merola

expressed the opinion that he might be able to be of considerable assistance

in "discussions" with individuals or corporations re their desisting from
lending aid to Castro.

9. We expressed appreciation for his offer of assistance but stated
that it was very unlikely that we would request any help; however, we would
be glad to hear details of any Latin American intrigue which comes to his

: attention, and which could be of any significance.

a : No furthes ‘contact is contemplated, but for the record the followin
tredi ~~ : : :

‘Full Name: Joseph Raymond: Merola —
* 9: Qetober 1925
Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania

  

He. exved in the US Marine Corps from 1941 to 1945, Serial 32962¢

x ,
JUSTIN’ F\ GLELCHAUF
i

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

eats APPROVED FOR ete
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PR

 

 

. Joseph, Rayinas OLA.
2028: ‘North mm :

     

a

a situation. . ~ Because bie’ cackeround I have alwoy)
Bomenair om & Feb’ 61 ke led saying he had some inform
Brazilian Senator,‘ a” ‘elese’ frtend and confidante of "Che
felt we should know about.

 
     

. 2! r contacted. the FBI to check on Mercia! 8 backgrou
- thar whtke he has ‘a- long record, he undoubtedly could spea
concerning international affaires interest in his ability |

 

° SA meres. gen-in-law. of: ‘Bulgencio, Batista, General Mirandr
iB Clandestine . fashion following the Castro. victory, . and b) ar

 

cE. , the ; Senator: had vieited: Cuba following Cas
and. fed been. the > special guest of “Che Guevara. No other detail
at. time of the: interview of Merola,: :

   

  
14-00000

 

  

APPROVED FOR RELERSE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

“yet: ‘xeceived details, but. that Sam Kay, ome of his asaociates in
_ American contraband business, told him that ‘the Senator was inte

, | developing a project whereby large quantities of whiskey would

Brazil. He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following
aad had been the special. guest of “Che Guevara, No other de

| available at. the tise: of the “interview of Merola.~

5. “it is my opinion that the principal xeagon for Mer:

wb to ascertain if we would intervene with the Federal Cou,

2Somile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that
Brazil to work out details of the whiskey smuggling. I inf
would be. no possibility of us. being of assistance in the m

 

 

 

 
14-00000

 

ee ee ETT TE ee?
TET -

: corns ep yy

: of
Bate: 07

    

te » Feast: Regen’ be
; 2018 Roeth Bo.
Mdenk 2 eae,

— several, months XE heve been contacted on ccoas by

ay “pasa : noberious ‘smgsler,: gunrunner and geoces tonne
ad engretsed interest in offdriny tis uscistease La eunnec. on
' Behe site - Because of his hackground I heve ‘alvays evaded -
6 Feb he called. ‘Saying he had sone information cour

lizn Semater, a-clase friend aed poudidante of "Che | Guevare,
taht we. should

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
      
   
  
  
 

tae ability ‘ke ‘emuggie a
IT visited Merola at his palatial hb

Heticn on a charge “of
eval Uiranda, to che US in
yy and b) an appeal being
_Sxon @ National Guard
errented te drag on

% caurieéion Arvolving
awns civen five ysars x»

    
   

ondefimite ly.

4. When queried abost the Braziliss

that he hae aot
‘at meseimed detadls, but that Sas 4

the Latin
.erested in

y woul: ho smuggled into
owin:, Sasuets victory
cther decails wera made

   

   

‘si Leble at the than ag the inerevies a of Mercola,

5. ye
whe wecVextain iF
: is travel ¢ ;

L te work ovt detail 1g of the w Lek
wit be no posetbility of us sodeg of

 
    
 
  
 
  
  

ecole contacting us

davai. Gourt co rescind the ‘
on aim ao thet Mecola could go to +
suggeing. T informed him thar there ;
tance im Li matter.

  

 

   

 
 

er te eee Car?

J ‘
i -
“of oy *
a
1

 

resseds ure ¢tticheds

 

Josep 4 Ray mead

 

 

(py

Merele

 

 

 

 

     
 
 

 

93
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 19
a CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW F PROGRAM

   

 

FBI to check on Meroia's ‘background
that while: che bas. a: “Long ‘record, he undoubtedly could speak

concerning international affairs; interest in his ability to stig,
other contraband.’ ‘Bee sequence, z visited Merola ¢ at. his palati
Miami Beach. Lo, z

  
  
 

Be. Mer la ia curr ntly “at liberty" on two*cor
2} A two-year ‘probation’ in connection with his conviction on a charge o
bringing the son-in-law.of Fulgencio Batista, General Miranda, to the
2 clandestine fashion following the Castro victory, and b) an appeal beic,
:aken against a conviction involving a theft of guns: from a National Guard
\emory.. Merold was given f five. years but his appeal is expected to drag on
ndefinttely. ae ;

 

4 When queried about: the Brazilian Senator; Merola said that he has not
et ‘received details, but that Sam Kay, one of his associates in the Latin
werican contrabend business, told him that the Senator was interested in
eveloping a project whereby large quantities of whiskey would be smuggled into
razil.

He said that the Senator had visited Cuba following Castro's victory
id had been the special guest of "Che" Guevara.

No other details were made

railable at the time of the interview of Merola, ns
5. Ie 1s ay ‘opinion that the principal reason for Merola contacting us
@ to ascertain if we would intervene with the Federal Court to rescind the

-mile travel restriction currently imposed on him so that Merola could go to
azil to work out detaile of the whiskey smuggling.

I informed him that there
wld be no. possibility 0 of us. being of assistance in the matter.

 

 
14-00000

 

. APPROVED FOR RELERSE 1993
. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

    
    

  
 
 

TATES GOVER? | T

eneral no-goo”
in connection wi
@, always evaded -
ome. information co
ibe, of "Che" Gueya:

  
 
   
  
      
      

ycould:speak auti -
his ability to smu

one of his associates in the Lat
hat the: Senator was interested 11

jteietion, currently imposed on him so that Merola: ‘could go to
details of: the aera smuggling. I informed him that there

   

 
