SECRET

Subject: DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #06

a ae
C/IMS/ESG Fredrick C. Wickham 44483mjk (3March1998)

Distribution:

Original - C/JFK Declassification Project/HRP/OIM/DA
1 - C/IMS/ESG
1 - C/IMS/ESG/HCS
1 - IMS/ESG Chrono
a fas

[AL COLLECTIONS

71N FULL 18 September 1998

 

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: | J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-06, QKENCHANT

1. QKENCHANT was the name of an Agency project used to
provide security approvals on non-Agency personnel and
facilities. Such approvals were required so that Agency
personnel could meet individuals to discuss proposed
projects, activities, and possible relationships.

°2. Clay Shaw received an initial “five agency”
clearance on 23 March 1949 and Agency records indicate the
QKENCHANT project did not begin until sometime in 1952.
Thus, in all probability he was not cleared by that program,
at least initially.

3. @onroe Sullivan, Clay Shaw’ scbossy was granted a
security approval in December 1962.

4. With respect to Howard Hunt, following his
retirement from the Agency, he went to work with a company
which had previously cooperated with the Agency. Hunt was
granted a clearance so he could deal with administrative
matters in the absence of others within that company.

5. The Agency believes it has fully answered the
questions asked within this request and considers it
completed.

 
13-00000

Ek

a
res
ae

CIA'S!
~  RELBASEI

aA

th, COLLECTIONS

N FULL 7 ee ad Ml
2000 é as 27 February 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Chief, JFK Declassification
Project /HRP/OIM/DA :

FROM: (U) Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
Chief, External Support Group/IMS/DO
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: (U) DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #06

REFERENCE: (0) ARRB’s Memorandum dated 18 December 1997, -
RE: Status of CIA Responses to ‘
Assassination Records Review Board’s
Requests for Additional Information and
Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal
request number 06 (CIA IR #06) from the Assassination Records
Review Board (ARRB).

**CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT , -

 

a. (U) Per the Review Board’s request regarding the
purpose of QKENCHANT and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard
Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan, the following information is
provided.

b. (S) QKENCHANT was a project for obtaining clearances,
that is, Provisional Covert Security Approvals (PCSA) and Covert
Security Approvals (CSA), with the Office of Security in :
connection with the acquisition of Corporate Cover for Action
“(CCAY; In connection with the acquisition of (CCA; Directorate of
Operations guidelines require that a(PCSA/CSA’ be obtained in
most instances before a €orporatéjentity can be used as a (Cover)
(for Action (CFA) Sponsor.’ ~

 

 

 

 

c. (U) With regard to Clay Shaw and his association with
the QKENCHANT project: A review of Shaw’s security file .
indicates that he received a “five Agency” clearance on 23 Marc
1949. Our records indicate the QKENCHANT project did not begin
until sometime in 1952, therefore, Shaw in all probability was
not cleared by the QKENCHANT program.
By (0563956 |

SONTT.5 (c)

DECL ON?
DRV FROM: M

   
  

5-82
oECREL.

SUBJECT: DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR 06

 

d. _(C) After Howard Hunt's retirement from the Agency, he went to
work for (the | -une-Agency-by many he had for years
cooperates w. SAG providing Py

4 Hunt was cleared for QKENCHANT by the Agency so that he could
- deal with administrative matters when necessary during! Jabsences

from his firm in Washington. =

 

 

 
Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page7

Documents file: documents Nos. 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510. The Review Board
is awaiting confirmation that these documents are at HRG for processing.

CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested to use its contacts to pursue certain records
related to Oswald that were orally described to CLA. The Review Board
understands that the CIA has taken steps to pursue these records.

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QRENCHANT
and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this
request that now appears to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking additional
information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks
an immediate, full, and accurate formal response to this request. Once the formal
statement is provided, this request will be complete.

**CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able to locate to date.
During the course of this review, additional questions were raised that CIA
agreed to pursue. CIA also agreed to conduct additional searches to determine
whether there may be additional retrievable records.on Mr. Capehart. The
Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this request. Once the
formal statement is provided, this request will be complete. :

CIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the “Family Jewels” Memoranda.

ARRB has reviewed a redacted version of the “Family Jewels.” Additional

_ questions have been raised. At meeting between HRG, ARRB and the DCI/IRO
on December 11, 1997, specific redacted pages were identified for ARRB staff
review. These pages should be made available as soon as possible.
MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

OFFICE:
SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

2 February 1998

Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
. Strickland @ DA

John F. Pereira

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer
OIM/HRP

ARRB Requests - Priorities

ARRB letter dtd 18 Dec 1997, Status of ARAB Request for Additional
Information

| have been advised by the ARRB staff that an updated "Status of Requests’ letter will be sent to
the Agency early next week The following requests will be listed as priorities to be completed in

February:

CIA-14 Mexico City Station Annual Reports (DO)

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT . (DO)

CIA-IR-08 “Family Jewels" (DCI/IRO and DO)
CIA-IR-09 George Bush (DO, DA, DCIARO)
CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics (DA, DO)

CIA-IR-27 Security Files for Five Individuals _ (DA)

CIA-IR-32 AMWORLD

(DO).

| have partial responses to some of these requests; call me if you have questions or need the status of

your response.

ecky L. Rant A

Kathryn |. Dyer @ DA (bcc: Bonnie K. Hunter-Y-)
Sent on 2 February 1998 at 01:26:47 PM
Pre. Real I Re

 

2 ge

   
 
  
   
       
  
   
  
     
  
  
          

+ ee° “Enclosuva 21" -.

 

“. os Pg . sot . .
“supgecte . clay. &. na (201-3823493) 8

8 . . x -- te. :
7s 0

 

eo, ce

 

.Sudject vas born oa 17 March 1913 in Now Orleans;
-Loulsiana. — oo se ;

2.7 2 Standard backgcouad information on Subjecg
. (pavantsa, marital status, records of ecucation end 2h
- euployrant, ote.) in laczing because sitqy WAS & Coatact

| @€ the Domastic Contact Servica. - . :

é

woe.
°3. 0 Pracas ‘oA Subject deve bacn run in Rip/Main 7".
inéex, tha index of tho Cllica of Security and tho ad
Céntral Cover Staff, Fho first shousdé oaly a 1951 Far...
interview with sia about a fo:

seas employee of tha Now _
Orloans Tatematicaal rads ‘Wart. “he second showed 2?

that C/ccatacts Division had wequested a nzaaa trace
about 1949 and that che check ef FAL secergs then con-
Gucted vas negative, Centcal Cover Staté ned no cord,

4.” Som of tho 00-8 xeports Sased on SUA ae °
xepoxting are on hand, Thay are tho Collowt Ge (%e —t
; 49 noted that the source Gaseription fdentiztas tha .

source by job tit

ay

  

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  

  

+O 2£7952,. 26 Meech 1952, concerns . 7 ‘
@ letter written to the public relations
rector of the Interantional trace
Narre by Ge Me gucta Sen LLGR, a brads
Conaultant te the Conn Governmsnt., Tha :
letter is a follow-up of Giscussions hold .
- in Baw Orleang during Decender 1951. the |
‘ Lottdr gaid thay Soviet Precuction and -
export trade vare being afvertised and ose

       

 

  

"ppc pon RELEASENSS

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAD

 
 

104-10336-10005
a

— SECREY , I. UE
ye

Ms

14 May 1996

Barry -

Ref the ARRB staff request for information pertaining to
Project QKENCHANT. (U)

In the attached “Enclosure 21,” the cryptonym is mentioned
in paragraph 11, as it pertains to one J. Monroe Sullivan in
relation to Clay Shaw. For the staff's background use only,
OKENCHANT was an indicator used by Central Cover Staff and the
Office of Security with a’ program for clearing ' ‘attorneys ‘and >
(Cover for Action” providers (businesses, etc. ) with access to
‘classified material. (Ss)

The size of the project file is approximately / ‘three to 4,000” Q
7 ?
/

 

 

(Nov OL. MC) nn mm —_

- Ellie

CL BY: {611637 (7

Cl Reason: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: Xi

DRV FM: AHB 70-9 MULTIPLE

SECRET
13-00000

 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

~

  

an SUA casually, —

ns yesCaurantse, . .*°
Baa.

Fetes seent En 4196S, 7 ee

oan . _ot Fic-
weg THR various
e ,erecings vow oxct
encounters was

       

 
  
   
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
       

 

 
 
 

9. Om 7 March 1967 Pr

a pybliched en artiola | “1°. “>
-eallod "Clay Shaw of tho Ci 3:

Gatelined Fors, G@ Merch 2. -

    

   

   
 

1967, written by V. YSRNANOY.. The article charged that «. ~~
CIA mads uso of tha services of Cia ay Si for CHATS sua -
intorests in Italy. ‘aa Pravda piece notes that tha DA

in New Orloana Ls accusing SHAW ef partictpation in tha, ¢ .
asaaszinat fon conspiracy. Yo says SHAN goent “sows years" “°

kn Fom adv a Covld @yada Gonter luadar. Ye elat us that

the Contey was a cover Financiag antiréomaunis’ act sivity.
CIA gava divectives to Ge Vorld ‘Trade Grakes was,

a byaach of “Permidex® (sic), “which tho ancuspapors in -. .
fwktcorland openly eccused of ‘crimins? opor valons* wooo, .
{Commnts iC apprays Chat ell of the ? avian charges ara’ se.
untrue, vencept thet thera was a CLA-SURN aiationshin. So
faz as fs xnovn, SLAW vas ndvor asked to use his rolat: iors,
saip wita tho World Trade Center for clandestine puxpossa yO.
and, in fact, ho has not bean in italy.) ned

   

 

“

 

. ot

-, 19, Heworandua fron ¢/eun/1 to C/CI/R 6 ae 8 March -*.-
. aos? subject: Italian Augects of tho Clay © She Affain, . +:
ively 156) ot has m ariiela .”
assas: Suatton, and the cola Peace Cantor
contains no xolovant fatormation., .

   

     

 

       
   
 

. 1l,. A pAnor sandira marked on
olgned M.N.. Stevens pays, that)
WAD gzantod” pore ae rs
eo that hn Isad 5% nf Proaset fax
faeeneaaeaey Ree ite .

* 412, Menor sandua fron cs:
1967, Subjects

* Centwo Mondiale Comuereiale” (8 orld
cr/e GA foldox, Cley SEA “Wo ning pager!

     
   

 

  

 

  
    

 
eo Ne TRO

Assassination Records Review Board .
- 600 E Street NW ¢ 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 « Fax: (202) 724~0457

 

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira _

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

 

Re: Status of CLA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
dditional Information and Records

 

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board's requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

‘As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material, .
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03 :
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

 

GBoaro Memasens: John R. Tunheim, Chaic « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall - William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
