13-00000 peu!

ordinary interest to note that in Apri] 1971 Mr. Fensterwald told Mr.
Lawrence Houston, the General. Counsel at that time and another repre-
sentative of the Agency “in attendance at the mecting that he knew the
identity of the unidentified man in the photograph and that we will
be furnished his name in due course. So , too

4. Al) coverage by CIA of Oswald's stay in Mexico City was tech-
nical. The Station had no live source coverage edher ‘unilateralonr,

firom=Nexican Tiaisone, Subsequently, Mexican police interrogated Sylvia ,
DURAN, a Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy. . Her testimony gave us

- full details on Oswald's trip to Mexcio City, and was made available
to the Warren Commission. The lack of coverage on Oswald entering the ~
Cuban or Soviet Embassies resulted from mechanical malfunction. The
Agency provided the Federal Bureau of Investigation jin the field in

Mexico City and in Washington all of the information it had acquired.

cos . Po Loe ~ ote a | .
pm sae bE EK

Attachment: ‘a/s aan

Distribution: i
Original - Addressee w/att..
. DDCI. w/att.
ER w/o att po
OGC (Mr. Bolten) w/att.
IG Subject w/att.
‘IG Chrono w/o att. — :

J.L. Leader Chrono w/o att. Ss
me , o. . oe

cout wud sand ood AQ owt
ht @ tt

01G/J.L.Leader:aa}

OP ae eee RTE e tad om =

 
1041041310362 ee , . we weasiind |

  

MEMORANDUM: FOR: Director of Central intelligence

FROM : dohn-H. Waller - . oo Chr .

Inspector General

SUBJECT : Bernard Fensterwald; dr. Comments in 22 October
; 1976 Issue of Washington Star

. }. The following is a response to your query to Mr. Seynour Bolten
concerning comments made by Bernard Fensterwald, ure .

2. The comments made by subject in the marked -section of the at-
tached newspaper clipping are partially factual and partially sheer
speculation. It is true that the Agency has been particularly sensitive
about the entire matter because the photographs in question originated |

’ from a highly sensitive intelligence operation which was conducted in
October 1963 by the Agency and “Mexitaf_sécurity authorities: against the
Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Hexico City. However, the material was
net withheld from the Warren Commission. It should be noted that Oswald
was in no sense "under investigation" and that at no time during his
stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire a photograph of Oswald,

 

3. The Agency has 12 different photographs of an individual, pos-
sibly an American as yet unidentified, who was observed entering the
- Soviet Embassy and later the Cuban Embassy. A cropped photograph was
introduced into the Warren Commission public record. The Warren Com-
‘mission and its Staff were made fully aware in the course of their
inquiry at Headquarters and in. Mexico City of the origins of the photo- -
graph, and the fact that we had additional photographs of the same
individual taken at different times in Mexico City. At one point our
Chief-of Station in Mexico City suggested that the man in the photograph
was Oswald. However, this proved not.to be the case. It should be
noted that Mr. Fensterwald in 1971-1972 was actually. shown two of the
12 photographs during a visit to the Agency; other than the one already
published in the Warren Commission report. It is a matter of more than

o

eran EZ, IMPDET
mere a CL BY 004645

Ro! Be
13-00000

    
 

 
  

22 UCTOBER LOTO pears eegour Lo -
baz. —V Whok vot
ShoAe

aN

        
  

       
     
      
   
 

respect to the Jolin Kennedy assassi-
- nation be made public. The official

solution-is that Lee Harvey Oswald
* was a fone nut Killer end that there
“sere’ no other people involved and.

vq Cyr Or at omer heres mm eet eT 8 sl a or Commil pares :
PVG Er Ate aes] ADT, mrmittee to Investigate |
there Sinations has tirged through the...
years that all of the information with | Oo

Archives today which will repain
classified until the year 2039 unless it

+

. tions,, And thercfore, taking Phat ‘4

cover anything. However; there is | |

ust

 

  

-imnent'agencies, primarily the FBI)
and the CIA In addin in to that, there
ere literally thousands of documents
that the CIA didnot give to the War-"

ren Commission and did not go to the

é
‘
ty

te

  

2
=
oe

 
    

 
 

 
    
  
   
  
   
 
   
     

a el ONY:

Bem

dence up you create the-suspicion
that there's more there. And I don't
. think anybody at this time outside the
government knows whet happened to
John-Kennedy, I think the congres-
sional committees jp, time jwil] Sind
out. :

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    

 
 
  

Ae
4&3 Q>. Apart from material that might,
4.‘prove distasieful or hurtful to, ‘the;
iXennedy family,:the JFK autopsy"
; photographs for example, is there.
sctchall west Other evidence or do you feel there's

    
  
  
 

set Th px we
LO: Ut has been 13.years since the ||
Kennedy assassination.- Why. Feopen

 
 
   

  
 
 
  

   

 

 

 

AS3 other material under lock and key a

JL I} that.eould shed significant light ‘on |- 83

ON The. Committee to Inyestigate'| theassassinations?.* 32:7." oft a4
. “ ‘= aie ‘e E

    

   

Assassinations bas long been sus-'

pected by some p2ople of being some-.)

how connécted with the and you,

yourself beieg labeled possibly a CIA y

zgent or CLA plant. Are you in facta’
te fee

   
  
      

eae 4
, i, cértainly from reviewing
‘the index of.the withheld material.
which they have been forced to sup-
ply to various district courts, you get
the impression that much yery vital
information is being withhéid” Again,
Tsay, without-knowing what that
information is, it's hard to say where
"it's goingto point. : 2. oyu vast

   

     
   
 
    
      
 
 
      
    
 
   
       
  

  

lawyer? Neither, I’norm! partner’
bave.ever been ‘effiliated| with-the:.

 

  
   

ClA‘or'Wworked-for the CIAveither'y eo 2 tt Oe :
with ‘or: without ‘pay*in“any way;4 °Q:Can you hazard a guess as to what
shape or form. I have‘no idea where'| - ‘they mighthave? siete

the rumor started:-Idon't kbow eny— Pesca, 23 sich :

" Ai No;I can't, Tecan only tell you |
‘so far as the CLA is concerned a large:
part of-the withheld testimony in- |’
wolvesia trip Lee Harvey Oswald
inade-to Mexico just ir:mediately
OF th E i] |+pridr to,the assassination. No one in
investigation.on the;CIA‘and:since:| / thé public knows what this.trip was f ‘ ony,
+€ ‘all about. But we do know that the |‘ aAeaee i eed
{gin ce: } _ CIA bas been particularly sensitive | - ~Az-Well, it's-a nusaber of reasins.
extent that if there’s any evidence at with respect to that. We do know that One, I think the membership of the
irection.: ‘Warrea Commission itself contained

one:that.knows-anything “agout my:

 

        
      
   
      
  
       
    

   

allpirall-poiats in the’ there were CIA cameras taking pie so many outstanding people that it isi
A. dota aes tures of people going in and out of the | 5 ancars :
Or Is it possible Tees oe ovict enbassiesand-they | Cilficult to believe that for whatever

  

‘reason they would nor seriously try to {
“give the public a full answer. ‘There's
“ge preat reluctance to disbelieve peo- |
ple like Justice Warreo and Sen. Rus-
sell. Secondly, I think until Water
gate people tended fo disbelieve that
t their government could be involved
in anything of this nature. But even |
J more recently the revelations, the ac- '
counts of the CIA to kali Fidel Castro
J have gotten rid of the last reluctance

‘took a number of pictures of a. raan
"they. labeled Lee Harvey Oswald.
.:From looking at him, he is obviously
not Lee Harvey Oswald, but the CIA
: " will not identify him 2 Ye

ae Q: teul

FBI has evidence Jocked away some-
where, Uiat could shed- new light on

he investigations into the JFK assas:
sination or perhaps 'Martia Luth

King's assassination? 54...

  

     
 

  
 

 

 

    
13-00000_

wl hee me tee aaa agen ERP OREETE RIDE DITTO —
“did occur, is really a matter of na- long jump from that possibility to the
tional concern and transcends th~"- possiblity that we had anything.ta da
_own very understandable interest with king. Jt seems to me that these
it. L think that the investigation cer- are questions that pave the congres-
‘tainly into President Kennedy's *- sional committee the powers thal
' death can be done in such a way as to™."they have. I don’t really know that
-" cause minimum grief to the family. speculatiog getsanywhere.” | -ov |
_And I think there’s a very good’, . | ee tte ee
* chance that this will happen because. °” Q: Your Committee to Investigate
-4Y think the members of the House of, Assassinations, what do you think it
! Representatives and the members of has been able to accomplish? Why
“* the Church committee in the Senate’; wasitformed? . PS yea pote
! are very well-aware ofthe problem, 7: 7.0) avs = * arate
“Sand can’t see any reason why ite ° Ag It was formed for two basic rea+
oi Sanot be done without terribly dis- ";sons, One was lo get the critics of the
_ ' tasteful evidence being trotted outin “ Warren Commission to coordinate
: public. I just doo’t think that’s neces, their efforts. The basic aims of the
- 1 7." group were to gather information to
‘ « keep the subject of John Kennedy's
* et v= : ination alive until we cou
+." Q:.You were the attorney for~ assagsina : ches
ie Earl Ray. Do you-feel that’, convince the Congres aad reopen thelr
' Shere is evidence that could clear hie «Syrn investigation. Fortunately, 1.
_ or alternatively to prove that-he was ‘think we've been very successful.
fOr thelow x PD ve fhathe Was the subject has.becn kept alive. As
i] imotthelone assassin? °. 7427 the climate in the country changed,
De, ea SS “tthe climate in Congress changed, we

¢ | Az Itismy.own personal belief that “ 12 able, with, the help of a Jot of

.. there. was a conspiracy. I think that +:
“athe question would be resolved if swith a full
. is James a Ray ene United malt _Hintend to tura- over all of our investi-

Vmost of the public certainly, and al-’.
_- most all of Washingtoa that I know ;

:were simply amazed when a guilty:
* plea was extracted from him and he .

: Pr Oe rar Co ar
~ sg lawyer I tend vo believ:
ney -nigds Wie best conclusio ‘vey
could from the evidence atha. iVe
know of so rauch key evidence that
was either withheld or destroyed that
you get 2 general feeling that they
had only a relatively small part of
the really important material.-For
example, Lee Harvey Oswald wrote 2
. | threatening note to an FBI agent
shortly before the assassination, Ina
matter of an hour or two before Jack
Ruby shot Oswald, the FBI agent
flushed it down the toilet. Now this |
was never reported to the Warren
Cosurission. There are certain peo
-| ple who can link Oswald and Ruby,
and this material was never passed
| to the commission. So I think it’s a
[very harsh judgment to say that this
4 Very distinguished bunch of Ameri-
* cans — including the chief justice of
. | the Unized States — purposely did not.
. + ltreech the preper conclusion.
gee. oan

woe gw ateeat hey
*. Q: How long'will it take the House

\* to investigate this affair and came to
some sort of a conclusion.- Till it be

*. 7s years away, do you feel?..5.- :

ase he wot

Sate oe ant be geese niga. ice
Ar No, Idon't think if will be that
far away. The House of Representa-|
tives had rwo basic roads they could:
have followed. They could have taken

| their staff mermbers,: people. who
Lwere thoroughly familiar with the.
f subjecr but equally. opinionated, or
"; they could start with people who.
|

  
  
   
   
  
    
  
      
     
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
    
      
      
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
     
    
   
  
  
  

 

   
       
   

 
  
 

   

assistance.

  
  

"Or There's b deen ian eternel fa
: 2 J : tion with Jo » Kermedy's yourder.
went off to serve a 53-year term with: “Do you think when or if the House
Vout a trial: It came as a great ShOCK “fnyestieation reaches its conclusios.
_ to most people and I think most peo’. shar will Jay to rest finally the specu-

wd ox woe _

scina-

“}ple were rather disappointed in a - . ue
Deine of this magnitude a man would 2/2400? $e he oe s
.inot in fact stay for a jury trial. 1-2 As Fbelieve that if this Wouse-com-
: spent six years trying to achieve this... tree continues to get the support in
2 1T must confess.I was unsuccessiul, rhe next Congress that they have in
but it is very. possible that this inves-_:.the tact months of this Congress, tha!

-, gation of the House of Representa- they will investigate this killing thor-

were good lawyers and good investi-
gators and start with 2 clean mind
and simply go down the same road
that others have been going down for
12 years. They chosé the latter, That
will take somewhat. more time, buty
with the caliber of. people that have

 

   
  
 

 

 

 

fives would achieve in a lot shorter

‘to teke a-matter of years..I think it
| will ake a number of months longer
than it would going the other way.”

Q: Eunice Shriver; who of coursé
lost two brothers to assassins, has

 

happened to the Kennedy brothers, if

something more than meets the eye J:

been chosen I can't see that it’s going | -

     
    
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
  

period than six years what we were

unable to doin the courts. ~.

: a: jhe FBY is now known to-have ©

“hounded Martin Luther King and

; there has been speculation that the,

; FBI may have some way been ively satisHied. Emust say that in all hones
cs

 

artin tall

we eearens sg FEET ehe 6

: -oughly.I think they will cull out ‘the
2 leads, I think they will look at all the

vidence, and if after that length o!
time and that length of investigating,
they conclude thet the Warrea Com-
mission was correct, I certainly thin.

that 99.9 percent of the people will be.

  
  
 

he ““theory. And these theories are inter-

- to do, U-think that most of the doubts
if notall of them, will be laid to rest.

2 ae tte Semmes om gah
STS A * vee oe Table

Fe cee

  

   

  

 
