 

fapenien

g

-2-

obtained from his trip which could not be held until his
return to Kew York could be given to Roberto in Paria for
transnisgion to the undersigned at Headquarters.

Rafee] Garcia Bango Dirube

4. AMWHIP-1 wags asked if he knew Garofa Bango (GB)
whom we described as no lawyer, $3 years old, who bad just
arrived in Madrid and claimed that he had a message
obviously coming from AMLASH-1 or meabere of his group.
AMWHIP<1 replied that he know who had been a friend
of AMLASH-1's for the past twenty years, ANTHIP-1 stated
that GB was essentially a crook, and his assesssent of
GB corresponded pretty well with that forwarded in HADR 3486
(IN 24295), AMWHIP-1 stated it was possible, but not
probable, that GB had been sent by the AMLASH group to
convey the seasage a9 indicated in the forementioned MADR
eable, AXWHIP-1 further stated he felt GB vould be
personally loyal to AHLASH-1 in spite of any DS2 suggestion
to the contrary. (This again is a feeling which AMWHIP-1
had and ig sot to be taken as gocpel.) He also mentioned
the brother of GB, Jorge, on whos there are a number of
traces at Headquarters.

8. AMWHIP-1 also discussed the contents of a letter
received from AMLASH-2. The essential part of this letter
plus s telephone call from AHLASH-3 from Hadrid vas that
AMLASH-3 was somevhat upset by the fact that he was having
difficulty in getting a visa for the U. 8. and/or the
Dominican Republic, AMWHIP-1 then spent considerable
time discussing the treatment of AHLASH~2 and AMLASH-3 in
Madrid by EUBARK. He said he felt that AMLASH-2 and
ANLASH-3 ghould be contacted by KUBARZ and treated and
handled well. If this were done, they would both serve @
very waeful purpose for KUBARK ends both fs Europe and in
Cuba. The undersigned told ANWHIP-1 that we essentially
agreed. with hig position and would take up the satter with
ouy superiors when we returned to Washington, Oa the
matter of the visa for AMLASH-3, we pointed out that wo
could not intercede for AMLASH-3 in either case because it
would be compromising tc him, To illustrete the point we
explained that both governments knew that ANLASH-3 was a
Ceptais in the Rebel Army and had up uatil recently been
working activety for a miniatry of the Cuban Government
and therefore considered a Cuban officiel working in behalf?
of the Castro Government, As such AHLASH-3, or anyone in
that position, would not be entitled to enter either country
under noraal circumstances. Ye pointed out that theCubao
Goversuent. in-all probability knew of this; and, if AMLASE-3

 

ncn a oA Han: inn ce ci ett ae

 
([toe-tozte-togaz ;

* 5 4 ‘ *

 

19 Hareh 1965

MEMORANDUY FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMWHIP-1 in Kew York City.
17 March 1965

Meeting Timo/Place/Purpose:

1. The undersigned met AMWHIP-1 at the del Pezze
Restaurant, 33 West 47th St., at 1300 houra on 17 March
for the purpose of briefing him on better telephone
security while in Europe. Other operational natters as
discussed below were broached.

Details of the Meeting:

2. In response to a request from Paris, AHWHIP-1

’ was given a security briefing for his trips te Europe.
We paid particular attention to the need for security
consciousness while telephoning his KUBARE contacts at
the various embassies in Europe. te stressed France in
particular as it had been this station which reported a
cortain laxity in AMWHIP-1's security practices in
Paris, AMVHIP-1 appreciated the advice and guidance
and gaid he would adhere to it in the future. He in
turn stated he felt that “Roberto” should begin seeting
him in more secure places than his hotel reon, where
apparently the majority of the AMWHIP-1/Boberto eeetings
take place. We stated we would take this up with Roberto
in Paris prior to AHWHIP-1's projected trip during the
week of 21 March. i

3. It was algo suggested to AMWHIP-1 that due to
the sensitivity of the UNSNAPU-19 CA operation he was
about to undertake,he forego meeting amy KUBARK etaffers
ain Europe during hig forthcoming trip. He was told he
ghould contact only Roberto in Paris since this had been
specifically requested by Roberto and his meetings with
Roberto should be kept to s minimum. Any information he

 

y
g
3
Baa

 
74-00000

 

~3-

gucceeded easily in entering either country, thie would ‘
be @ rather obvious indication to the Cuban DSE that :
AMLASH-3 suet be cooperating with one or the other govern-
iment, AlSHIF—-i aocepted the explanation and felt it i
: would bo readily understandable an? a good excuse to give
, to AHLASE-3.

1

6. AMVHIP-1 also talked at length on the subject of i
AMBIDDY-2 and AMLASH-1. Ha repeated hig previous position i
i that the marriage of AMBIDDY-1 and AHLASH-1 would breed s
: no good, that an unnecessary number of people now know of :
! AHLASH-1's plang, and that AMLASH-1 himself was very :
skeptical of the arrangement with AMBIDDY-1. Furthermore, :

a a8 @ result of this, he ia somewhat unsure of his position .

H vis-a-vis ODYORR,

7%. AMWHIP-1 said he would adviee us of his exact
departure date in the event vo had any further instructions
for him. The seeting terminated at 1520 hours. There vere
nO fteeidenses of a security nature to report.

 

5

 
