104-10166-10038

 

   

 

: the Navona political establishment to take stock: o

ANCCRE~2 began his vrescatation by saying he had boon asked to toke Lines

. and follow tactics in his propuganda that were unacesptable to hin:

1, Ne had been asked to say “geod things" about Castro. This he
could not do as it would represent a "leftist" line that would be a depar-
ture from his established public position and would constitute an abandoa-

went of his policy against identifying himself vith any ideological line -
Jeft, center, or right.

 

.

2. He questioned the wisdom of discussing events outside of Cuba
since he felt constrained by the presence of military governments in
Nicaragua, Peru, Vanama and Argentina that would find applause for liberal
developments offensive. te said he had been tailoring his material for
general Wi consumption rather than for Cuban audiences because he felt
his present major vehicle, Radio Libertad, was not received in Cuba.

In response ZEFPHAT suggested that AMCORE-2's 1958-59 efforts to raise -.
money to buy arms and planes for Castro and his public support for Fidel in
1959-60 belied his claim to being. neuter politically. In any event, the

matter of an ideological tag was semantic - the issuc was his willingness to

espouse the same sentiments and aspirations for reform and change that he stood
for ten years ago. ANCORE-2 said this would be no problem for !-im and would
pormit hin to claim a consistency of position, ZEEPIAT explaincd that his
target, as for AMSTRUT-2 and all of us, is Cuba first and foremost. The tar-
got is a selected rather than a mass one. Because of this, AMCORE-2's present
vehicles, i.e, his broadcasts on NQBA and his writing for Diario were well
suited for our purposes as wo have rcason to believe that this limited target
group watch very carefully what is said by perseus they consider to be unoffi-
cial spokesmen in Mini. These are pood starting places while we look for
additional outlcts should the product warrant them. AMCORE-2 agreed to renew

his treatment of the themo of the betrayed revolution, criticizing events in

Cuba only in the context of when and where they fai! to live up to the promises
of 1959; citing examples of positive achievenent eiscwhere for comparison with
the absence of conlitions permitting similar progrcas in Cuba; and encouraging
what would be possible if

 
   

io

   
    

 

de fax ‘ : iy iC WC
policy on Cuba was c fale subject’ for at SEDUIAT said that he preter
that ANCORE-2 concentrate on the more positive program outlined above rathor ,
than taking on tho policies of a government with which this country maintat nod
a close relationship, Mo also anid thot AMCOW!-2's eeciprs concorning tL5,
domestic politics nnd porsonalities, og, attacking Sonutor Fulbright, urging
votos for Mr, Nixon and discussing the polictos of che two major partios, wore
totally unaccoptabls as thoy vialated the operating charter of WOPIRM.  SELEMIAT
elosod by underscoring WINALDA's rolg as the WOFLRM coordinatos of radio acti
vitlos conducted by ANCOR. 2, AMSTRUT-2, AMRAZON-1 and AMLYRIC-1, Those dla
cussions wero fricndly ond casy, ‘The Implementation fa an unprodictublo as
thor porsonality of thin vatn ant ambitions wan. ,

   

 

geen

 

 

 
104-10166-10038 Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
eh, Records Collection Act of 1992
. (44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53295 6/15/17

  

3

mmr A PON a

    
     
    
   
  

28 November 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

bye

 

" SURJECT: Meeting with ANCORE-2

 

i
i
t
8
t

 

S propaganda
S authority as

 
 
      
       
      
  
 

  

1k with the persons that WOFIRM
propapanda activities conc: vning Cuba, The prime

ANSTRUT-2 and AMCORE-2,

 

t they speak with ono voice. WOFIRM sponsored
“\ propaganda toward and concerning

inovitable process

. ituation of political stalomate. WOFIRM would
like to get a simplo messupo acro:

» for continuing social prop
- has no interest in a retur

 
 

 

 

  
 

: [thuaa WEARS AM

sees =
