14-00000

 

Conclusion: The article as well as ‘that portion of

The Night Watch dealing with Oswald in Mexico is misleading
and inaccurate. Phillips, for reasons known only to himself,
is trying to reconstruct from memory an. event which happened
almost fourteen years ago without benefit of documentary
evidence held in Agency files. I am told that Phillips’ book
was reviewed here in the Agency before it was published;

if so, whoever reviewed the section on Oswald knew less ‘than

Phillips.
Ae. 72. pb Holmes

 

cc: Inspector General
Mr. Friedlander
14-00000

(3) Latest Headquarters information was an. FBI
report dated May 1962 saying the FBI had determined
Oswald is still a US citizen and both he and his
Soviet wife have exit permits and Department of
State had given approval for their travel with their
infant child to USA. .

(4) The Station should pass the information of refer-
ence [its 8 October cable] and paragraph (1) above to
the Embassy, the FBI, the Navy, and I§NS locally. The
information given above as paragraphs (2) and (3)
originated with the FBI.

($5) Reference and possible identification being
disseminated to Headquarters of FBI, State, Navy,
and I&NS. Please keep Headquarters advised on
any further contacts or positive identification:
of Oswald.

Headquarters feedback to Mexico City of Oswald's cor-
rect description should have been sufficient, in view of the
incongruities: with the details deduced from the photograph
of the unidentified male, to keep these two matters apart as
investigative facts. But things did not work out that way.

Mexico Station on 15 October 1963 asked Headquarters
to "please pouch a photo of Oswald." Headquarters electric-
ally delivered to the Department of the Navy the following
message on 24 October 1963:

"Lee Henry [sic] Oswald. .

"It is requested that you forward to this office as
soon as possible two copies of the. most recent
photograph you have of subject. We will forward.
them to our representative in Mexico, who will
attempt to determine if the Lee Oswald in Mexico
City and subject are the same individual."

No photograph had been received by CIA by 22 November
1963. ,

Paragraph [f]: ''The wife of an agent" had not made a mis-
take when she prepared the 8 October cable to Headquarters.
She was working from a transcript of the 1 October telephone
call or from a resume of the telephone conversation. In
both instances, the caller to the Soviet Embassy identified
himself only as "Lee Oswald" without, apparently, giving his
middle name. The transcribers spelled out the name noting,
in parentheses, that the spelling was phonetic.

8
14-00000

Headquarters, among whom both the Navy and FBI had photo-
graphs of Oswald. (In partial explanation, if not excul-
pation, be it recalled that as of that moment CIA had no

photograph of Oswald in Headquarters or in Mexico City to
refer to.)

Confirmation of this judgment is provided by the con-
tents of the cable composed by the same analyst and sent as
of 2209Z.time (two hours later) to Mexico Station, referencing
its 8 October cable:

(1) Lee Oswald who called SovEmb 1 October probably .
identical Lee Henry [sic] Oswald born 18 October 1939,
New Orleans, Louisiana, former radar operator in
United States Marines. who defected to USSR in October
1959. Oswald is five feet ten inches, one hundred
sixty-five pounds, light brown wavy hair, blue eyes.

(2) On 31 October 1959 he attempted to renounce his
United States citizenship to the United States Embassy

in Moscow, indicating he had applied for Soviet citizen-
ship. On 13 February the US Embassy Moscow received an
undated letter from Oswald postmarked Minsk on 5 February
1961 in which subject indicated he desired the return of
his US passport as he wished to return to USA if "we could
come to some agreement concerning the dropping. of any

-legal proceedings against me." On 8 July on his own”  - ---
initiative he appeared at the Embassy. with his wife.to
see about his return to States. Subject stated that

he actually had never applied for Soviet citizenship
and that his application at that time had been to re-

- main in USSR and for a temporary extension of his tourist
visa pending outcome of his request. This application,
according to Oswald, contained no reference to Soviet
citizenship. Oswald stated that he had been employed
since 13 January 1960 in Belorussian radio and TV :
factory in Minsk where he worked as a metal worker in
research shop. Oswald was married on 30 April 1961 to
Marina Nikolaevna Pusakova [sic], a dental’ technician
born 17 July 1941, USSR. No Headquarters traces. He
attempted to arrange for his wife to join him in Moscow
so she could appear at Embassy for visa interview.

His American passport was returned to him. US Embassy
Moscow stated twenty months of realities of life in
Soviet Union had clearly had a maturing effect on.
Oswald.
14-00000

 

[MEXI-6453 CIN 36017), 9 October 1963. This cable was
originated in the field by| k (whose

 

 

pseudonym appears on the copy of the cable in the Mexico
CStation’s file on Lee Harvey Oswald), the wife of

[|__| a staff employee, and, in October 1963, was

chief of Soviet operations in Mexico City.

tour of duty in Mexico was from about May 1959 until

early 1964.) His wife, at the time, was a contract employee
of the Station; before that she had been a desk officer in
the Soviet Division.

The use of the term "agent" is inappropriate in this
article; however, since Phillips does not use such a term
to describe an Agency employee in his book, it must be as-
sumed that the writer of the article is responsible for
using it.]

On.10 October 1963 at 2012Z time the WH Division responsible
for action disseminated this report to the Department of
State, the FBI, and the Navy Department by routine electrical
transmission, adding some collateral details drawn from a
preliminary file review:

(1) On 1 October 1963-a reliable sensitive source in
Mexico reported that. an American male, who identified
himself as Lee Oswald, contacted the Soviet Embassy...
in Mexico City inquiring whether the Embassy had re-
ceived any news concerning a telegram which had been
sent to Washington. The American was described as
approximately 35 years old, with an athletic build,
‘about 6 feet tall, with a "receding" hairline.

(2) It is believed that Oswald may be identical to
Lee Henry [sic] Oswald, born on 18 October 1939 in
New Orleans, Louisiana, a former U.S. Marine who de-
fected to the Soviet Union in October 1959 and later
made arrangements through the United States Embassy
in Moscow to return to the United States with his
Russian-born wife, Marina Nikolaevna Pusakova [sic]
and their child.

(3) The information in paragraph (1) is being dissemi-
nated to your representatives in Mexico City. Any
further information received on this subject will be
furnished you. This information is being made avail-
able to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
oe C 2... €

Although the reaction of the Headquarters desk was "by the
book" and in good time, there were a number of errors in
this advisory to the departments which, on the record, were
concerned with the Oswald case:

a. Oswald's middle name was misgiven: "Henry" for
Harvey. The reason for this mistake is simplicity
itself, The sheet opening the file on Oswald on

9 December 1960 had been erroneously inscribed "Oswald,
Lee Henry."' That sheet - unchanged except for the
notation of the error - is still the first sheet in
the Oswald file.

(Comment: It is evident from this information that "the

wife of an agent". . .mistook Oswald's middle name as

'Henry', as Phillips explains it, is inaccurate. The mistake
was made in Headquarters in 1960.]

b. His wife's maiden name was mispelled: "Pusahova"
for Prusakova.

Neither of these errors are significant (though they persist
in the Headquarters communications throughout.the month).
{Comment: It should also be pointed out that for some un-
explained reason, the desk did not disseminate the informa-
tion that Oswald had indicated in his telephone call to. the_

Soviet Embassy that he had been to the Embassy on 28 Septem- _

ber. The Mexico City Station, however, did pass this infor-
mation locally to the Legal Attache, et al.]

More important was:

c. Paragraph (29) of the Mexico Station's report, which
dealt with a concurrent, but separate, phenomenon, the
description of an individual observed going into and
out of the Soviet Embassy, had been locked on to Lee
Oswald as an alleged descriptive fact. The Station's
qualification, "appeared to be an American," was trans-
formed in the flat designation of the unidentified in-
dividual as "The American." ;

There can be no question that this misreading of the.Mexico
Station report was an analyst's error which escaped detec-
‘tion in the coordination before release: the descriptive
details attributed to Oswald were so far off the mark as to
be immediately recognizable as such by the recipients in
14-00000

 

Paragraph [a]: Phillips statement is somewhat strong. So

far as we know Oswald did not seek any assistance from the
Soviets or the Cubans in setting up an assassination operation
against President Kennedy. Physical and technical surveil-
lance of personnel of the Cuban and Soviet Embassies revealed
no unusual contacts of operational interest; however, Oswald
himself was not under surveillance and he was in Mexico City
from the morning of 27 September until the morning of

2 October 1963.

An excerpt from a CI Staff study dated 2 May 1975 points
up the fact that Oswald's activities in Mexico City were not
covered completely. [It should be pointed out that Oswald
was not under Agency investigation before the President's
assassination.] What he did when not at the Cuban or Soviet
Consulates or calling them on the telephone remains unknown
to this day.

"From all credible evidence known to. this time
(none, incidentally, added since the exhaustively
unique work of the Warren Commission), Lee Harvey
Oswald spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial
days - about 116 hours in all - in Mexico City from
about 10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about. 8:30 a.m.

2 October 1963. His place of residence was a. small
commercial-traveler hotel, not frequented by 'gringos' -
the Hotel Commercio - where he was registered, under alias.*
Exhaustive and detailed interviews and interrogation

by the Mexican authorities and the FBI, after the
assassination, ‘established that in the recollection

of ail hotel personnel he left early and returned late

each day of his stay.

 

[* Oswald's last name appears as "Lee" in three places
in connection with his trip to Mexico City. His
tourist card was typed by the Mexican Consulate in
New Orleans, "Lee, Harvey Oswald." Howéver, the comma
seems to have been a clerical error, since Oswald
signed both the application and the card itself,

"Lee H. Oswald." Oswald himself signed the register
at the hotel in Mexico City as "Lee, Harvey Oswald,"
but since the error is identical to that on the
tourist card and since he revealed the remainder of
his name, "Harvey Oswald,'"' it is possible that Oswald
inserted the comma to conform to the tourist card,

or that the earlier mistake suggested. a new pseudonym
to Oswald which he decided to continue. Source:

Warren Report, p. 314.]
104-10065-10348

 

22 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Comments on an Associated Press Article
“Ex-CIA Aide Doubts Oswald Link to Cuba",
Published in the Washington Post of 17 March
1977.

fa] "The man who headed covert CIA operations in
Mexico City in 1963 says Lee Harvey Oswald neither
asked for nor received any aid from the Cubans or
Russians in assassinating President Kennedy.

[b] "In fact, David Atlee Philips writes in 'The
Night Watch', none of the CIA personnel in Mexico
. City had ever heard of Oswald, and were unaware that
he had defected to the Soviet Union, married a Russian,
and then returned to the United States. ;

{c] ' “CTA surveillance, Philips wrote, showed that
Oswald visited the Soviet Embassy. in an attempt to
return to Russia and wanted to. ‘gO via Cuba.

{d) . "He said a file check with Washington normally
would have been instituted, but all the agents were so
busy they did not get around to it until the wife of
an agent took it upon herself to compose the cable.:

[e] "Even then, he said, she mistook Oswald's middle
-- - name as 'Henry' and relayed a faulty physical descrip-
tion of him.

[f] "The reason for this, Phillips said, was that the
wife had not read about Oswald but 'heard' about him -
presumably from some clandestine source - and was working
phonetically."

Overall comment: The above article is based upon Phillips'
book, The Night Watch, and apparently not on public state-
ments made by Phillips. The writer of the article has ex-
tracted certain details from the book and then. put them to-
gether to fit his own fancy. Specific comments on each para-
graph follow.

2  ———-eorees”

od O6472
14-00000

 

"Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late
arrival and early departure; that he slept one-
third of the time of his stay (38 or 39 hours),
there remain some 78 hours of activity to be
accounted for. Overall, CIA's information can
account solely for very brief periods during 27,

28 Séptember and 1 October. All coverage by CIA
during the entire period was technical. The Station
had no live source (living agent) coverage

cunilateral or from Mexican tiaison."

[Memorandum for: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff, dated

2 May 1975, from Raymond G. Rocca; Subject: Review of
Agency Holdings regarding photograph of Unidentified Indivi-
dual in Mexico City published by the Warren Commission. ]

 

 

Paragraph [b]: This statement is accurate. The station had
known nothing about Oswald until his name appeared in the

1 October 1963 intercept of a telephone call to the Soviet
Consulate in which the caller identified himself as "Lee
Oswald."

Paragraph [c]: This paragraph is misleading. Having already
said that "none of the CIA personnel in Mexico City had ever
heard of Oswald,'' how is it that "CIA surveillance showed

that Oswald visited (emphasis added) the Soviet Embassy in an_.

attempt to return to Russia and wanted to go via Cuba?" This
statement would appear to imply that the Station had set up

a physical surveillance of Oswald during his stay in Mexico
City. Instead of making reference to "CIA surveillance"

Phillips would have served the Agency better by referring to

Silvia Duran's testimony as given in the Warren Report.

The Agency is left with trying to explain how we could have

a surveillance on Oswald when the Station did not know who
Oswald was until it received a cable from Headquarters giving

them the information [DIR 74830, 10 October 1963.]

Paragraphs [d] and [e]: The following information is taken
from the CI Study of 2 May 1975 (cited above):

". , .the voice intercept and photographic coverage

was not (and normally is not) processed in ‘real

time'. The means of acquisition and the volume of
information precludes anything but the spot reporting
of items judged by the monitor to be more than ordinary
interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full
texts of selected items require consultation of the
tape and either a full transcription or full transla- ©
tion or both. .. One of the 'triggers' that normally

3
14-00000

 

operates to focus and accelerate more speedy review
and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is
the mention of a name. -This was precisely what
occurred in the second of two conversations on 1
October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the
speaker said he was ‘Lee Oswald.' It was this infor-
mation reported by the Station to Headquarters’ in

its first indication on Oswald on 8 October 1963.

"The Mexico Station did one more thing in its

8 October voice intercepts: it coupled the data
with descriptive information it had acquired from a
sensitive collateral source - a photograph of a male
individual, apparently an American (emphasis added),
who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on ~

1 October. The Station reported this detail on the
8th as a matter of coincident fact. The Station did
not assert or suggest that the data deduced from the
photograph was in fact Oswald, or indeed, was in any
way related to Oswald."

Mexico Station reported to Headquarters on 8 October (re-
ceived in Headquarters at 00432Z 9 October) the following
initial information on Oswald.

(1) On 1 October 1963, an American male who spoke
Russian and said his: name “Lee Oswald (phonetic),
stated he was at SovEmb on 28 September when he

spoke with a consul whom he believed to be Valeriy
Viadimirovich Kostikov. Subject asked the Soviet
guard [Ivan] Obyedkov, who answered, if there was
anything new regarding a telegram to Washington.
Obyedkov upon checking said nothing had been received.
yet, but the request had been sent.

(2) Mexico Station said it had photos of a male
who appeared (emphasis added} to be an American
entering the Soviet Embassy at 1216 hours, leaving
1222 on 1 October. Apparent age 35, athletic build,
circa 6 feet, receding hairline, balding top. Wore
khakis and sport shirt.

(3) No local dissemination was being made by the
Station.

[Cablese has been rendered here into readable English, with-
out substantive changes or omissions. ]
