——, 1 *
: Pa “ a

74-0000

 

 
      
 
    

DISPATCH | od
. © action - accOM
"isso rere |
baba’ . . . - pf QualintD
“Ohta, Wi byte ton en
il : . - NY AssTaact —
. Chisi or § Stetio. Merfas ries ; SQV ee cear ne Set

  
  

MRAROR (Operat —GYROBE py Progrossi-R Ht. on beiactio

 

 

id. Reenu: dment Ae: ivities -of. 6 fation.Mexico {
ACTION REQUEED- REFERENCES ; ieee ° > |
Referee: Ia Lo gle be 2 tte ork -
Aotion Required: for your information , |
- Attached , Parldal coopltangs with referer Ger ds Sp tees Lrowtess resort, |
. t
WILLA ©, CURTIS

“oe *

 

Attachmen?; . DATE DISPATCHED
Progress; report. . z
foe een eee (ee ewe eel,
Distributions CROSS REFERENCE 70 ;

Lo TR watd
3 - WHD watt
3 - Files

 

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

AT -12 -6

a . : a me ee
x nap ey Sm ree wf per ee le
te Te PE eee oe PEE ae ee

\
4
104-10103-10075
9

     
 

 

HUIMA = 19325] datea 10 July 1962. Mexico City

   

Station, KAPOK, dispatch with attachment.”

 

 

 

RETURN TO CIA

ck ‘ound Use only
Bo Not Reproduce

iin inn ak 3
a

Sk, .
oe “PRS gre(_ Report on Def-ntien and recrui( et “activi s Ace

74-00000

 

   
 
  
  
   
 

    

  
 

3 et from the Cuban Sascy on BEX .
om” at was Bok Es) artietal
* Embassy, but was next to Castro himself, the most ;ole.Lla: votee

An unsuccessful "sapproach™ was made to Be e706 BULA .

zh: dent leader, ss

y 1.43 a veteran Station agent in close and friendry- contact with -
a9" her Pais: 22 7 vf ficial. _In atdition, 2

 

among. thd
' Sevace 3,

 

2

. | Besides —*—,, above-mentioned defections = 511 succesefil
-SUMOLP acti

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ons - included: ; R .
: 3 a? bee
A. (—_ ceca Jattache: whe é UE a y d
05 ; n Vi hn pl 04
B. [ cuban Sarton; o wn
c, ee 2 Cuban view Consul, Svon ] ,
. aE
—D, { tS Cuvan foreign servace orficial:
E, Cub: .
eT ops |
OE. of :

 

G. { | can (SP ereratative, Cm

TM addition, the Station mde an unsucces sful "approach" te Role.de CUBISLA
Segades, titular head of the stuc- vuts ty Cuba at that time, The " "Zopreach” oy noncioted
of a"friendly" talk between » Staion Cs.. 2 Officer, a mitual Celend ‘of .CUPELA ni
CUBELA when ‘the last-mentionec wes vistting in Mexico, While CUBELA did aot pick
up the epportunity at that time, he appavently did not report the ne dens to his
superiors and the groundwork may have been laid for Similar action Ly shure.

 

 

Three of the "recruitments” «ere o% importance, LITAWS-3 Lanter tne
or et ODE microphones, . LIOO2E-1 headed the ‘tor a tine
: niga was, for a nét: inconsiderabdle serlod of time actually de fac ie
SL TTAINT-6 furnished little cf value. The term "recruitment hat =a
OL a otes to indicate that none

  

   

        
     

ed in ¢ these agents was idea

 
   

 
  

’ ay ow level, proved ou the
gease of a Liana ae Af a} of the recruitments e effeated by proves Ste wie.
assets, LAP Afitt-2) and LITALUS-2, 1 aval 18 still achive, alt ou
he ne lotiger ma ITA IS-3 developed an Embassy {
operatien now handled by LITAINT-2 and LIftam -S)has been instruments). in recruiting,

SECRET /KAPOK

 
14-00000

 

  

‘ Ol . . Spe . :
. fiiseanceeg the*= ~ttui( Oty _.euvent fF Cz ry returaer vo vuba gg &
_ £51961, aid Bithough arrancertnts had”been madé for him’to report by Suv, the

eharine] has. never been activated at his end, in spite of the fact thot Ammse VER -3
was seut in te Cuba’ as a legal traveler to ascertain why not, Apparci.’ iy
LIOOZE- 1 prefers not“to run any ricks inside of Cuba itself,

Current Situation

 

. With regard to: the i tion's sees defection and recruitment activities, |
. the Statien has one 5 214 xather timid personality where
‘major value is that “he is with the operational

 

advantages basically implied. He has little access to confidential information
but is able CME cecarract ffliela]l Cuban letterkeads and Ube likes,

There is proba: ¥ @ hope thet (tas: “Iu-7¥will turn out to be another LITAWS 3.
The Station's best chance of at aes poor thw le information from the Eriasny ol
in the near future seems to be rk ae works in the same section as npr roi ot a
did fermerly. While assessments of Tet-D have net yet indicated that a proper
pitch can be. made to him, he is for all practical purposes already f\untshirg much —
Anfermatien ef value te LIMASK- 1, a veteran KUBARK agent who is in intimate contect
with nim. .

Current Station defection targets include the Cuban Ambassador nimuel!, who
‘has many times been reported to ve susceptible, and Odon ALVAREZ de i Can
important, official of the CTCR in Cuba, who
efect, The Station is now tr ng @ get more inforueatiora in -
the latter case. - . . .

   
  
   

"“Derecics 4 CU (MADRID
1M 1965. As | aa)

Hvolved in duestawsile
ATiyi tees 1 as,

Sint ¢ Bescer on, FBI
Hs born evestigehes
CA les sol ini « !

 

PUR
