14-00000

wr

 

by, the set of ideaa und aliss of the derocratié left’. ‘Aside frog .the
‘truth or falsity of ths: statemn:, the ITD ts. in Ro position to a

 

 

“5. Teta our view that the 127 ping abould not be supported tia {te
Rresent form for these reasons; . ot . ot :

a. The IP? soels exclusive contro! of the ant Castro reeistance,
ihe plan iteeif’atatss that the seat hope for the Cuban people Is “offered

 

  

effective leatership of the-anti-Costro reststoice. There havé been, and
@re.many grouse th that fielé. The MIC ims no record of action of witch’
we have relichle evidence: whieh vould argue for Siving them preférential
status. In specific instances their claim to certain eapebllitics hays
been teated anit. fount vanting. ft ts am view that relfance upon groupe
48 such, vith no control, 1s. detrimental vo operntional achlevemaat.

AL sugport vhile retatning
(eware tuere Is a0 provision -
regulations whick vould
Gtamia. sug envisaged by the iAP pian

the sso measure of control over the ‘use
Dan, ¢.g., Almost certatniy vould involve operations _
sounted fran -banea within U. S. territorlal duriadiction, yet those operations
Would renin under MRP ‘absolute ccutrot”. We doubt that the F.0.J., Cusiogs .
eat Imaigration Service, Coust cuant and other eoumed agencies would ever
agree te any euch arrmgenent where U. 3. territary tg concerned, ond-vwo -
would certainly be in no pasitial to vouch for the HRP operations. Anti«
Castro operations mamtsd tra: acgvieve cilalde of Cuba are going to be
attributed to the United States. Stree thet ta the case, the U. 5. Govermne

Dent cust control thase opemtions as eMectively of iL cun.

G+ The HP seats to operte on an equal footing with the providers
of fumis. walle governments, inciuitoy in sas instances governomta-in-exd le,

  
  
 
 
  

a be treated on equals by the U. 3. Covernmmunt, there is no precedent for
extending such trestment to a private organtsation. To do eo in thls caso
would result in the arousing of the bitter @ualty of -the anti-Fay resistance

B

‘groupe, of which thore are mny, vithout any corresponding benefit.

a. The (tise fron MY operations would not justify the cost
mivioayed. The DP" ‘tale, to date, viether in intelligence or (n realstance
activity, has been peghigitle. There are aany Reve etarios which refer to
the MP ag the lergost ani best organisel ¢° the reolatence grams. The }EP
plan claims organisation dvd to the township level ast states that:

“Tue HRP has an extensive corsamfention act and le competent tn
Obtaining indispeas!ble elesnts af intel trenes.

may a WL Be ae ul Ewnre of ony extengive valid
information fron the ‘©? ef any iaortant res ‘slance activity coniuctad
by thas. he entire nistery of Ageney opernitons (nvolying sroupa tuggest:
the inndvissplitty of hamling over gebstoattal sums in the hope of a future

ertene

a.

 
 

“taka”. Aside from certain tested ifatsaa arraagesents. our “tava” fe taken
by agents serving under our direction, resastiesa of thé groups to vhich they
46 or 49 not belong. +

£

S- It ahould be pointed out that fron @ political standpoint the MRP

orpaization and plan heve elasente worthy of consideration. The most .
toportant 13 that the '™? program ig one that t# attrac to the Cuban
masses becwue, of all the extle programa, that of the } is the nearest ~
to Um originally stated but decrivet platfors of the Castre revolution.
Yor the game reason the. IKP ta accoytable to many liverul Latin Amertesn
goverzsaents which do not consider @ipperting other exile groupe, The MEP -
offers the people of Cuba a positive ‘Progran of Social “amt econanic refona.
(whetter such a program vould be compatible with U. S. interests ‘8, of
eaurse, a matter cf controversy.) Nowever, in the political aphere the
MPP progrwn appears to break awny strongly fron the 1040 eaast tution.
In other words {t may be ‘Fidellsxo sin Fidel’. “bere are other Cudan
exile groups who propose @ocial amt-econanic reforrs sintiar to the MiP.
in wrien they attexot to base these reforzn cn sore legal continuity of
Goverment; that is, a return to the 1949 ematitution ag a vasis for a

: desscrxtie goverment tn Cubs.

    

7. Un short, ve belleve that the iTP plan is unreailatiec and unworthy
of further consideration ta ita presen. fora. Tavelowornte within taternal
reststasce tn Cuba tndfente that the HM? ta becoming part of a unified
resistence anml the !F? personnal inside Cuta have den‘ed Manolo Fay og an
external leader. cur review of the |! PP position inside Cura does not
indieste that the If? has the rescurces for ag exteasive a plen as presented
nor can the intermal '{P hope to direct ouch a plan in conhmetion vith
Other resistance elements. Oven 4? au plan were reasivia, wa do not:
see any poss{lility of securing & reasonable return for the trenendoug
amount of nonsy required for thia plen unless sae real comnirot is agreed
to by alt ant unde a Pert of the plan. Taking into aceamt the consc) idation
of resistasca elements presently taking place im Cuba, ft is the Agency's -
eonecey*ion that we can best Secorplie® action operations against the Castro
regime by dealing’ directly with this unified eroup or ita nrpresentatives
th other groupe. Naterie: ant financial support would te furnished these
groups es they reveal they nave the assets to eccaxplish specific operat Lona
ami Agenty-trained avamta uni communication equipnent vould ba totrathuced
to the varioss grams in en effort to Lave soe eantre! ant dAlrection of
ll effor.sa umdertarm, It is presently planned that ‘DP, As ann of
these grams, would recetve asstetaace anit airectian in future as
specified above. lovever, {t {ao felt that the prreeut 6
the resistance clorenta vithin Cula rate re ot

Plan gucitted by the }UP izpractteal a

  

 

  
  

 

      

whis time.
https://asc-app-01:7002/jfk/boxes/JFK64-28/coversheets

SECRET

i

OCUME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D

Box Number: JFK64-28

Source Number: 104-10296-10219
CADRE Ref ID: C00565452

Pub Date: 07/14/1961
Pages: 4

C00565452
104-1 0219

0296-1
SECRET

 

 

 

 

105 0f 105 ; 1/12/2015 1:54 PM

 
‘0g 10296-10219

 

 

ee
ie
aM;
LONF.
INFO ¢
to

: : 2 ep we ewe
WH/4/PM (Farnsvorth tn rary GEM: dh. :
owe ESASEAT, Ac /D CODMDINATING Oeerceed OR x. DAYIB, c/a fs
; AELEabiNG OFFiCHD SEcRET qe UtmantiGatina overeee

"rom 13g9 Veg re

   
 

AMEE ee eb AS2 EO SE tag aes
yo ; a ,
Semele Los eeee [s]
28 August 1962 Wit.
DAVE ae Fitag- tehecd oried:
oe a Ne C4 Recort Veks, Devtrey.
DIRECTOR -° (RE fa this copy. on Lndienhed
. Farnoch cory hind as indented
BELL. 10 neo aie :
Neos recomed CT .
pop, cP, soo WH. » oe :

INFO . CHE DIR 98583 - 4

PRIGRITY WAVE

Lo AS RETEST GETICE CPIDEAL, AMBANG-h CONTACTED 26 AUGUGT ZEXMETAL BY .
HASSRLLSTROM USING ALIAS MARTINS, ‘SUBJ COMPIALISD LACK SUPPORT AMBANG FX
RYFORT, WAS TOID WOULD BA CORTACTED WAVE AREA BY KUBARKKA "DE PARTE lt
GR. WARTONS® TO DISCUSS AMBANO PH CAPABILITIES, ADDRESS GIVER 387 KS 36TI ‘
8T., TRL YR 4 1170. :
2. COHDAGT SRPORE RIB HANDCATRIED WAVE eure, REQUEST YOU
POOUPOES BIRSTABLISHING COBTACE AX UNTIL ARRIVA OSE AND DISCUESICH
IRB ACTION AND ViEW) EEVEPAL EPECIFIG AL HR BE REQUEST YOR KUBARK
SREPORT AEA 088, eam We MaNDESDeTA Ys pAESKOT PLAN ALL cROUPS, I.E., ’

=

sarpons or erscI7I0 OF VILL Bt CORSILERED RASPES WRIT STANT TIS
See lone 73
Of PLANNED, ASSETS AVAIUABIA, sfourt FIRAECTAL SUPPORT NDED, | FTV. He.

3. PER ReQuest mut Sas6(ort 5268) PIB CABLE BLOG SOCMRT, "| *s

ON
Nea) END GF KESSAGE

  

 

 

    

fe
o
\

    

 

my

REPRODUCTION BY OTHEK THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE iS PROHIBITED. Copy ime bs

7)

 

 
14-00000

ses <n
os ae
RP
==
. Wb day 198k
SURES Cements on MRP Plan for Avti-Castro Cperet ions

A.. The Movintento Fevoluctonarie del Pueblo (CT) bas ee oe

"@ plan for the conduct Gf enti-Castie operations. The original was

  

formerly of this Section, and
tafy.- Paragraph 6.was subsitted ty
da. I might edd that pe one
+ be Bb. seree, bovever, wit,
rentwttted, tg nt cee acriting’ -}-

   
  

chance for a reasciable return for coat imiesa res! cantrol by the
Provider of the furds te Suilt into the plan.

Robert 3. Hoare .
Chier, WH/s,/'Pc . ,

Metribution:
Original & 1 » Adirwosee

cal
74-00000

 

       
 
 
  

1 -Cas tio Spernt tons. te ia:
“be povided, At a rate”

objectives vere achieved.

  

of the

 

Of the desirable goal ‘of Uringing:

3. It 4s noteverthy thet the plan tnalste that the MNP retain
ccampleta and Gale: contral- of all the ‘Operations cantesplated. Thus,
it states, on pous 5,. that: a ;

: “Contributions will be received Without conprdial sing the:
rospenaibility for deelaiong and Oorgonization of the plans. This doss
not rule cut our searvh for eomeelling- nnd coonlication with ‘other
factas. preeant, mt vithout ever surrenlering tha rasponsibllity and
absolute entre} of al of thie, aperatts > TUnder fates aided)

 

 

_ tt also appears to ve tne IT? view that - tts position should
de ensloguus to that of a goverment -in-extle which baa deea recognised
ao tle rightful regim af ite country. Sims the plan states. that: :

yesee WIth the soverrennte willing to support us ve should
e@stabdliah high-level catact.vhich will mig it posible to discuss
quest Long of basie polley of events and plans opportunaly, ona A mules
footing.”.. (Umierl ining added)

&k. The oparations contemplated by the iPP are not too dissinilar
from.those proposed by the Wi/L/FH Section for FY 1052. They ineluda
the operuticn of maritime assete capable of yeaching all Cuban coasts,
the operation of asrial supnly craft (fros two bases), the training ani
infiltration of W/? operators end intellifence agents, support of imternal
guerrillas, end the treining of eight or ten 150-man groups for introduction
into Cuba at the right time. (there is alno considerabls stress given to
the mounting of extensive pwychological warfare). che LEP plan vould pose
raury of tha problems that ay Mf program does -- tha when, whera, hoe, and
boy euch questions tavolved fa procuring ani operating air and moritive
bases smi the paitey questions relating to acifong voich ine Luge sabotage
and active resistence. .
