“David G. Marwell

Harrelson directly. As usual, they will provide you with
the specific information you need as quickly as possible to
continue to record CIA's compliance with the JFK Act.

As ‘to your request for a complete description of the
steps CIA has taken to respond to specific requests, I
understand that there are several outstanding requests. HRG
has assured me that these requests have been discussed with
your staff and responses will be provided to you as quickly
as possible. Given the number and breadth of the requests
that are being. made re the Review Board and the limited

requests for tevocuation ‘or: documents: : with the Review
Board's priorities established in this way, the Agency can

- immediately work on those requests that are most important

to the Review Board. Of course, as CIA responds to these
requests, HRG will provide any information the Review Board
needs as to how the searches were conducted. I believe that
this method will best meet the needs of the Review Board and
will allocate CIA's limited resources in the most efficient
manner possible.

Finally, as to your requests to interview CIA officials
responsible for this Agency's compliance with the JFK Act,
Mr. Pereira has always been available to the Review Board
for informal discussions as well as for giving sworn
testimony including depositions. CIA has never objected to

‘the Review Board deposing or interviewing informally any of

its current or former employees and has, in fact,
facilitated such interviews. You will also recall that, on
6 August 1996, Messrs. Pereira and Harrelson gave sworn
testimony at an open hearing of the Review Board.

I trust that this:responds to the concerns raised in
your letter. Of course, if you should have any questions
regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact

 

, an attorney in the Office of General
ounsel, a 874-3124.

With every good wish, I am

Sincerely yours,

 
104-10330-10068

 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

General Counsel

9 December 1996

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street N.W., 2nd Floor
Washington D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Marwell:

The Director of Central Intelligence has forwarded to
me your 27 November 1996 letter for response. I commend the
‘efforts of the Review Board and its staff in reviewing and
releasing hundreds of thousands of United States Government
documents for greater public understanding about the
assassination of President Kennedy. I also confirm the
Central Intelligence Agency's commitment to continue working

closely with the Review Board in carrying out its statutory
authorities.

With regard to the requests made in your letter, I
understand the Review Board's desire to demonstrate to the
public that it has carried out its duties thoroughly and |
diligently. .You have requested that CIA appoint an Agency
Compliance Official to be responsible for ensuring CIA's
compliance with its obligations under the JFK Act. The DCI
has full confidence in Mr. John Pereira as Chief of the
Historical Review Group (HRG) and has determined that Mr.
Pereira will continue to act as the CIA official responsible.
for ensuring full compliance with the JFK Act and will
remain the Agency's focal point with the Review Board.

You have also requested that CIA provide an Initial

. tcatement of Compliance. Mr. Pereira and Mr. Barry

. Harrelson, the senior review officer for HRG, as well as the
rest of the HRG staff, have always been available to you
without restriction. The Review Board and your staff have
been provided access to any relevant documents or
information you have requested. As you know, the Review
Board was fully informed as to the steps CIA took to
designate Agency records as part of the President Kennedy
collection. HRG has also arranged for multiple briefings by
senior CIA officials from a wide variety of CIA components .
so that the Review Board can better understand the
information it is reviewing. Given the current effective
relationship between HRG and your staff, should you require
additional assurances of this Agency's compliance with the
JFK Act, I suggest that you contact Messrs. Pereira and
 

13-Q0000_

7" pavid G. Marwell

DCI/0GC/LD] ¥76124 (2 Dec 96)

OGC-96-53203

 

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
- DC/LD/OGC
- GC
- C/HRG
LCC Signer
- Lit File - LDG00021
- OGC Registry

Bt A Re et
1

 
