74-00000

 

 

“

“thie “geemod ‘doslzabla, :
tf would, bo known-as. JUANITO, He sgreed with pleasuse that this would.

 

tho ALABAU Lawyere’ group tn proclaiming Julio CARCE RAN {one

of the chief justices in exile) ae “President of Cuba at Yor." He ene
preeeed bis indignation at thia unilateral “polltical" move by ALABAU
‘and hie adhorents among the exiled lawyero and jidpes. Ha added his
beat wishes’ to 11@ and resninded me that he would probably go to Naw

York ‘on Cetober Jith or 12th for the SIP (5ectedad kuteramericana de one

mooting. | i replied thas-Iwould appreciate if he would contact:
Sr his arrival te give nis tocation in New York City, gad that
‘fvom me for an appointment with bir, ay

suggoeted. that in‘future phone ecnversations

 
   
  

  

6.0 good procedure, I wished hin  Codepoed, and he replied Mkowise
e mos : os

“46: ‘Comment

During. thoes. first ro mestingo i endoavored to. establish

myself favorably: with: De. ‘MIRC and therofre. refrained-from bringing * i

up cp dstalla of budget or. opposition te any ‘of bia specific proposals. -
1g otened, aohed various ‘quecticas, and he talked at length.

la future meetinge, after I have gatoed further background and.

: have. more- pole guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him specific |

iseuss and endeavor | te reach agreéments or compromisés, 28" may bee
seauived - . oe

 

 

 

 

 

e

 

SEED een Sears Sart, ge en tye hb UY Ba ecrn, 49%... acasiion
 

| press, the rolugee ‘centor, otc,

 

nounced FRIC’s activitics acainat the Council and ita efforts ‘to unify
the anti-Castro olementa, Hic aid that the people should be given an
opportunity fo elect their chief of state af iter Castro's overthrow and

reestablishment of arder in the ialand,

13. Cfficee of Council (Consejo Reveluctonario)

When ‘questioned about his business and private telephones,

 

So use the. other phono (JEfforean, 402751) when you wish te call ine."

“T need to have 8 smia}l office somewhere, away trom iny. home |

because all the activities there are driving my wifé.crasy, I want te.

find something coodest 50 that no accusation can be made of ostentation o
roorely a room for myasolf,. one {or my eacrotary, and.one for: ieotings. fe

The FRD had a place bul at that place also was the
It-would not be satisfactory. Tho FRD

fo now practically dead, Hh was the forerunansr of the Coasojo as the
tanify frig agency of the anti-Castro resistance, *

Activities of Cther Extie-

of the Council, ate..

     

 

4, MIRO‘s. Views. on Soordinatin tho
Group oo ‘

: After Dr. MIRC ‘roltorated. his view that he should be the
channel for funds aad coordinating the activities of groups outside the -
Consejo such as the Students, FORD (Laber), ste., Laaid that I unde f-
stood that gore of those elements were unwijling to function ander. the
Consejo; -and thatin.wiew of that gituation, did hé consider that an. .
Activity Commise might be organised with a delegate. from oach of.
thoae groups aod under the ehalrmanship of 'a.momber of the Consejo.
Thies would serve to ‘oordinate thoir activitics, give them a tie-in with
the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it, Dr. MIRO repliod
that this would merely set up ancther Consejo outside of and paraliel to
the existing Consejo. I did not pureue thie further, not having enough
background of those organizations te be abla to discusa the matter

effectively.

  

15, Toler 9 Conversation with MIRO on 7 Cetober

Before my departure from Miami for Washington on 7 October,

I telophaned to Dr. MIRC from the airport. He appreciated the call and
@eked if { had seen in the morning paper the action taxen yestorday by

: AMSIRO sald,” “The! Sus ine phone is aleo-in my house. ‘Phave no office
' except in my “house, but that phone Is always busy (JE fferson. 2-4 4680),

 
 

 

 

 

Supreme Court, but that sow he considered * LABAU unlit to hold aay
judicial position, foo ; i

_ 8. Mambera of the Revolutionary Council

. . Dr, MIRC. remorked that he had a meeting of the Council on
10 Cetober, Laskod what etementa now composed it and-what he piro-

_ posed te add, He named.-the following a8 presentiy in tho Conaejo:

Rescata- . 1

30 de Noviembre - oye
+ MURR i :

Acecion Demoeratica \
20 de Mayo - i
AAA Indopendienta . :
MDC : “|
Montocristi . : -

Ho said ho had invited to join:

MAP
| ‘Unidad Revoluciensria -

and awaited their reply.

He would alse like te have the Workers, Stadenta, and the
Professionals (Doctors, Lawyers, ste. } come Into. the Council. He be~

Heves Batistiancs aad Comunistas and elements unwilling to.cooperate.

should bs excluded, but that all other groups should be brought together
under the Council. :

Ho contends that all anti-Castro activities, exce clandestiag

‘and military, should be coordinated by mombdare of the Council, but that

the excepted activities should ba known oaly to him (MIRO),

9. Probable Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cuba

Dr. MIRO declared that he believed finminent the Argentine
rupture of relations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambassador te
Guba (Julio AMOE.DO) was ordered to retura to Havana the had been

vacationing inthe U. S. after FAONDIZ I's visit); that VILLANUEVA, a -

Secretary of the Argentine Embassy in Cuba wae ¢oming to see MIRO
today; and further that he (MIRC) had received a Phone call last aight

3
Renwick d

 
 

 

'
i
:
1

 

froma Spaniard (iteanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Abrea, ‘urging hi. IRc
to go to Huonos Alrea to arouse antl-Castro sentiment of the poople,
Inaa much ae some Argentine action against Cuba appeared imminent,

(FERNANDEZ. said he had already written MIRC: a letter.) MIRC eays,

“Of course, Icannct go. Ihave the Consejo meeting on the 15th,.

‘Furthermore, Iam going to New York on Cetober Llth or 12th for the.

SEP. (Socioded Interamericana do Prensa) meeting and have. boen allotted”
12 thinutes to addrose the ‘meeting. ©

40, WIRO to attend Homage to. LAGE: RDA (Brasitias v who
Precipitated QUAD 3" restynatioa) on Octuder 15

 

Dr, MIRO sald he planned ti. remain ia New York City. after
11 and 12 Cetober SIP mooting) until:October 15th to attend the homago
for LACERDA,. the Gevernor of: Guanabara’ province in Brasil, MIRO -
probably will stay at tho Fark Chambare Hote), but will advige Clark

of bis location. - :
I cominented that ‘Twould probably remaia in Washington noxt

week in view of: Ais plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet
with him, T would ge’ in touch with him and arrange & moeting

 
 
 

 

ai. Propaganda Somplesion i '
. t asked: Dr, MIRO about his ideas on the future organization .
and atracture- of. the Propaganda Commission. He stated that it is out-
side the Consejo and aot wher his’ direct control, although the Council
accountant has been passing funds to ft, Ho sald CAFS RILLC had Feaigned
as head of Propaganda and that he would Itke CONTE AGUF.RC to handle .

it.: He claimed thet-MESTRE ‘hee not-done anything with propaganda,

12, MIRO's Views Relative to Suprema Court Justice or PRIO

being Kecovnised:ag Head of a Hrovieional Government

Tasked Dr. MIRO if he believed that there were many anti-
Castro Cubaas (both io and out of Cuba) who favored PRIC,-or the head
of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a governnent wore
to be established on Cuban soil. Dr, MULC declared that the revolution
io a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former
regirne, . The people in Cuba would resist any ouch Possibility, He dee

 
 

 

(2) Commando action as outlined la plan presented
#9 ina on 6 Letober,
: : . : \
3. Cormumando Maa ‘
Then Dr, MIC handed me 4 plan (in Englieh) for clandestina
action prepared by his military collaboraters, whem he named 46 7
Colone! Manuel VANELA Castre, an olficer of the Acadeny, ‘Captaia
Enrique BESPAIGNE, and Colonel (fu) MON TEACULI:, He stared
that they wore of the BARCUIN gfoup aod had been prisonera,

With Feapect to the plan far claadeating operations in Cuba,
he stated that 300 men could ba Coanted ugon for eoramando action, part
Of thern-hora, part iu Cuba, He reiterated thar @ Comraands uperation
Was essuatial to dol pter morale among the Sntl-Castro ehorments In Cuba
aed in exile sa well.as to conduct sabotaye that would further weaken :
Caban economy and the Comununiat regime, Ha sald tat for thig opera tien
U.S. help would be necensary in PTovidius weapons, arnine, demelitions,
equipmont, and funde, Ha bYoposed that if thia plan was coneidered ta
have merit, that I arrange to have somone meet with his miltary men
to wurk out the dotaila. After all preparations had bees made and
matoriel provided, ote, the operatica would be purely a Cubsn affair. .
@ICTE: Plan turned over to Thamegaca at our no eting at 15:39 dn
& Cetober for tranarmiaaton. } :

4. Sequect for Arma, ote, to send to Eacambray

LrcIRO remarked that over & month ago he had made a requsat
fo Clavh for arma for the anti-Casctro ineuryents in the iscambray, but
to Gato had heard nothing relative te the request. Ha commented wryly,

'"aok but never hear an auswor,” He taid that the Ughtera there should

be supported. Er, MIRC stated that ha had a boat (provided by ua} and
@ meano for delivery of the arma, Gavaldo RAMIREZ tg chalet of the

5 ecambray group, *
COMMANT: Has anything bees done abeut this request ?

3. Information on Arie heceivad by Castro Kesime
eer nae tom moreno mee OED Peg tie

Dr, MIRC handed inc a lens report which he said was brought
to him by the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba when the latter came to the
U. 3. at the time af President CRONGILVG visit. “He sald the Ambasgador
would not divulge the source of the informatiog but commented, “You will

know,
* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October,

 

 
‘0d f0227-10150]-

 

 

20 Cetober 196)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

BUBIECT: necting with De, 1KC Cardone on 6 Cetober

1, Dr, MIAC arrived about ¥:$0 a.m. for the mooting « we hed

. 864 af 15:60; again be was driven by his secratary whem he intruduced.

As during the (ret ineeting, ohe remained outeide inthe cor, Our
raveting lasted anill $2:09 noon, : :

2. Firet, Dr, MIRG handed me @ aote in loaghand Heting the”
ics discussed with wa aa + Cetober, Theee points aret

.  & Grouas conducting propaganda, ste. with Ageney suppore
chewid receive their support and te coordinated thPough the Couecil.

b A propaganda campaign should be waned by the Council
aloud at: :

(1) Cabs, via a teng wave radio station in Key teas,
(2) Cubana in Miami and other U. 8. areaa by!
fa) Subsidising Diario de laa Americas.
b) Contracting for time on radio stations.

(3) Latia America, with a plan such ao the Operacian
Cristea." .

¢. Underground Activitios.

(i) Proviaion of monthly funde te Council for procuring
Cuban pesos to ead to the saven-odd resiutance

67oupe in Cuba through reliable chanuels (auch as
previcusly eent through tf

 

 

 

 

 

Treen UDG ae SEM Lae a

  

  
74-00009

 

Or. MIRC oaid thers was no way ta determine the accuracy
of the Mgures given of planes, guns, etc, received jrum the Soviet bloc
{and Raly end Canada) but even if the figures wore kag geratedt 109 per
teat, thay would still be impressive,

. Ho addod that Castro te daily becoming stronger militarily
with weapons and with a tare militia of €loge te 303,069 being trained |
te use them while the econemy coutinues to deteriorate, F ‘erhape only
half the militia wouid be effective, But tuat ie eiseable, Thus, he aald,

- the jonger the delay in positive military action to overthrow Castro, the

greater will be the task, “'@ must act soon, vigorously and effectively,

' to fesure victory. Another cofaat would be disastrous and would make

Cubans, Latin Arneri€ans and others believe Castro to be invincibia,

Than would come accommodations and oven worse, the traplanting of

Castrs-backed’ Toyimed in the hemisphere, And tha UL 5S. weald sufiez

woret of all, being discredited for defeat and “gullt af laterference.
“in ine UN na nation wouid stand beside the U. 3."

6 FEpopogal that Connell zo te Cuba with’ Cor:mando Croup and
Eptablign 4 Gavernoiuent on Labaa sail . .

Dy, MING thea declared that he was coavinced that Castro

would never be cverthzown by all tho propaganda, the sobctage, eomands
vaids, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating

etennny, and that it. was inconceivable to egtadligh a soverament-tresile
for aothing would c:me of it, that the only aoluiloa for defeating the
Castre regime was tor the Revolutionary Council to go to Cuba and estab-
lish @ goverament on Cuban soll, ask recognition by all friendly countries
aad nillitary assistance af tio prireizal ally, the U, &., ond that the U.S.
be ready to intervene tuimadiately with ite Forces, ‘This would ail have
tc take place jaa matter cf 43 hours, ctherwise it would fai), I reccgaise
that thie is a bold pian, but boldness le necossary, Thors will be many
wPiske, many may ba billed. Aa for myseli, Idon't care if idia, fhave

faat all my eerconal possessions and my den iso privoner, ' he reiterated

that all roust be well prepared in advance, there must be no vaciliation,
everything must proceed rapidly, Firat, a commando raid in {ores to
elisa & pisce of Cuban lerritory, preferably near Gaantansmoa, sou losnie-
diately the membera of the Council go ashore, proclaim: a provisional
government, breadcast by radie te all nations an appeal for recajaiticn
{and cables prepared in advauce would alao be sent out), requeat U, 3.
aestztance, and the U. 5. should furateh ouch assistance at orca in ade~
quate strongth to easure victory.

 

:
3
;
9
&
5
;
2
&
i
E
5

 
44-00000

 

Before ouch an aetion ia undertakes, the enehry srazt be
softened by propaganda, eabstare, raids, under srvund action: and the
mage of the peante of Cusa rausi be prepared ta accept the PP OVisionai
government through propasanda, increased Raowledya of ghe Council |
and tle unifying offerte, co oe |

. . . |

Pe. MIRC asked re what 1 thought of ibbe-prejeet; did 7 think |

t that Castro could be overthrown in Bay other way. Ladniitted taat
: — atrong military action appeared unecessary, | etated fartner that :
: . ef course his pian would have to be otudied at the. plghest government Sod
levais. He proposed that be might elaborate a plan with bie rxtlitary : a
 €alaborators, and I euzgested that he de thie so that it might be examined oo
and considered, : '

: ‘Dy, MIKG declased that he was ceavinced that thie Communist , : |
-Gagger in tha gide of the fates could only ba eradicated by suca action, en
thal the U.S. ts and will be blamed fer all aati-Caetre prota sande, .

Banctage, ete. aod that enemy statoa with Genounce il Tor Lata rvention

in Cuba, but that ithe U. 5, Goes to the aid of a (rienaly revoletionary |

regime established In the ceuatry and.helyo it defeat the Seviet-baczed

Communist regime, ail fritadly gevernmeuts will aoplaad. 7:

1
i
|

: “PE have ao personal politica: ambitions,” declared TRG, i

“I mefely am tryiag to chair tee Couneil, whose mission is to wnily tae :

anti-Castro elements inaide aad outside of Cuba. UW the teara len't cone -f
sidered ollective, then Change the pitcher, But I betieva the Couneil raat i.

: i

|

|

i

}

i

establish itself on Cuban evil, and seua, Tirso is against us.""The : unta
: dol Este agreoreat will backfire ayvakist the U. 5S, if Castro te alowed .
} to rernain in Cuba. In a year, alter tho politicsa of the countriss ree
: ceiving U. 3, afd have gotten their handa on: U.S. gald, they will aay, |
: *Thankse to Caatvo, ve yot thig.’ Aad they will spond t: aa in the past
with no benefits to the socisi and economic welfa re of the pespie.

 

?. Views about the Judges and iawyora

: : . t
jo: an T quericd Dr, AIRC 98 to aie views relative to tbe pedzes aud :
i | lawyers and their future atatua, He asic he hoped that they ceald all ;
reanite and that they euuld be given sazistance as. in the past. He des i

Clared that Dr, ALABAU wag act qualified to be a justice and that as waa - :

 

po daing acthing but making politica and trying to diecredit the Council .
foe gad MIRC and VARONA, Dr, tcERO doclared thet ke, a9 Price Liinioter
in the carly days of the Cactro severnment, had named - LAZAL te the

 

 
