14-00000

ft oo 2
SECRET.

  
   
  
  
 
  
 

it in New Orleans - must be considered of
great significance in the light of the
pathological evolution of OSWALD's passive/
aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill
General WALKER early in April 1963 and his
identification with Fidel CASTRO and the
Cuban revolution which is directly trace-
able as far back as his Marine Corps .
service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP corres-—

 

‘ .  pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether
there was any formal mandate, or even
security service contact with’ OSWALD
by the Cubans or the Russians - was an act
of singular irresponsibility and under no
circumstances waS excusable as retorsion
for what the Cuban. emigres were doing during
the summer of 1963.
CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA,
EARLY 1959 —@)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion
of germinal significance to any review of the background of
Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO! s Cuba. DELGADO was probably the. closest peer group

7
SECRET

, i mace 69 E of QL on
COPY NOs
14-00000

¢ . . P)
"™ SECRET

‘member to OSWALD during his specialist training period
at El Toro Marine Corps Base December 1958 - September 1959.
The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:
“OSWALD told ‘DELGADO that he was in
touch with Cuban diplomatic officials in
this country, which DELGADO at first took
to be ‘one of his lies, but later
believed. '"2
. 10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says a lot more of
possible ouerational significance than is reflected by the

to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,
meant ETERS PTET A

>. the record of the beginnin osuaLnis relationship with :

the Cubans starts with a question mark..
pennant nee TCT CCRC

 

.Ll. ‘The period was one of transition in U.S. - Cuban
relations after CASTRO's takeover. OSWALD, and DELGADO at
the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-
larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-
fied: re .
" ... I didn't iow what to tell him, so.
I told him-the best thing that I know was to

 

2

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President John F. KENNEDY (Washington, 1964), hereafter

cited as ESeozE, p. 687.

SECRET

COPY NO.
14-00000

* ¢ : ‘
ow SECRET

N ,
‘—-- grow until there hasbeen a full disclosure _

by these governments of all elements of
OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union
Warren Commission report should have left a
wider "window" for this contingency. That,

. indeed, was the opinion at the working level, . . |
particularly in the counterintelligence com-
ponent in ‘the CIA in. 1964. As was indicated
by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the
Warren Commission, CIA would continue to

regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

‘still open.?

   

c. In the absence of additional or new

  

‘elements of "credible" evidence, there are
“nuances” in the record that emerge as note-
worthy, in the light of other conclusions.
“These are reviewed and summarized below, item=-

by-item.

 

dad. CASTRO's warning and threat of

7 September 1963 - if OSWALD did indeéd read
Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.
KENNEDY. Hearings Before the President's Commission on the
‘Assassination of President KENNEDY (Washington, 1964),
hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol. V., pp. 120 ~ 129. See

especially p. 124 -""MEv Helms: ‘Yes. I would assume
the case could never be closed.'"* : a

= oe 6

SEC R E T

: . “PAGE 68 oie

COPY NOe
14-00000

“Tof the review, admittedly heavily using the

-
SECRET

of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary:

a. There is no increment of credible
ne nara

evidence, applying this phrase. stfictly, of an

Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence

 

or security service involvement in the as-
sassination to what was developed and con-
sidered by the Warren Commission and its
staff. The Commission's finding that .
Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of

President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did
them in alone and of his own determination
stands. :

b. "Credible evidence" that woula
upset or significantly modify this judgement
did (and does) not exist in Washington. But

“+entaenmsuctanrunaeaneenuseaceweqnnsenewrnennrereeevanapneneenestce tune? ceoeeratere
such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or
Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the Warren
Commission were minimal in guantity and
quality, designed to cover up any admissions
of knowledge of or connection with, OSWALD

which might be related directly or indirectly

with the assassination. Therefore, the belief

that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/or

DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and
5

SECRET

20-—--20 quality

>

 
14-00000

t co .
SECRET wee

"Bitterly denouncing what he called

recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

   

    

tory, Castro said: ‘We are prepared to

       
 

 

ght them and answer in kind. U.S. leaders

 
  
 

should think that if they are aiding terror~

  
 

ist plans to eliminate Cuban leaders, they

  

‘themselves will not be safe.'

e+. World affairs ... seemed to be

entering a more peaceful climate a few days
“ago, but now this trend has changed with
attacks. .
"The U.S. is. always ready to negotiate
and make promises which later it will not honor.
This has happened to promises made during the
October crisis. | They have been broken as can
- be seen with new attacks. . a
But I warn this is leading to a very
- aangerous situation that. could lead to a worse’

. crisis than: October’ s weet

:
é

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September,
used a UPI wire ‘service report which omitted any reference
to ‘the warning and threat which gave the interview its real

significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated re~

write (9. September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted

any reference to the main. thrust of CASTRO’s remarks.
® .
SECRET

PAGE 6 9

COPY NO.

 

 

‘or Cle

 

 
‘

t . oe °
a SECRET

‘~ Whe’ Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed_the HARKER
story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the
paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content
of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po~”
litical aspects ~ in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER
elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece. i

7. There is no evidence in the files on(the xmwEne>

aSsassination)that this CASTRO interview was considered in

following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission

and its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed !

 

eadquarters attenti fter i
the Dallds killing. More important, the interview appears
to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consid-
eration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba. There is no evidence !
in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission
staff Itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview
in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no
evidence in the files that anything along these lines was
stated by any other Cuban leader beforé the assassination.

. 8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's
request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD’s activity on the
assumption that as an avid newspaper reader —- which we know

from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the :

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

% a 4

SECRET

« _

6. pele
PAGE fF
cory NO. _____—
14-00000

SRBCRET

to his and the Cowmiasion's needs and then decide how
much will go into the classified record.

Raymond G. olen

Attachment

SECRET:

 
104-10054-10430

 

SECRET

23 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR! - DC/OPS BF

SUBJECT ¢ Review of Selected Items in the
Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding
Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban
Involvement in the .
John F. KENNEDY Assassination

1. The attached review and summary was written at
the express request of Mr. David W. Belin as a follow-
up to Question 3 of his lstter to the Agency of.

15 April 1975.

2. The yesults - as I hava already told him - add...

nuance, not evidence, to what the Warren Commission ana .
its staff had lald before them in 1964 on this subject.

The results of the review are stipulated in paragraph 8

of the Attachment. There-seemed to be no reason to. te
' attach copies of the case reports from the file to this..-.
summary. These can be made available promptly, however, -

on request. This summary-does not deal with press,.
magazine and books that dealt with the subject during.
the period after the assassination... .-...

3. My recommendation. is to do with. this. paper. as
we did with the earlier one. requested by Mr..Belin on.

the unidentified man: let him read the entire summary.

and then decide how much of it, if any, is pertinent

SECRET

 

 

e__impoer e1 By.
14-00000

 

' é
. : ¢ ‘ .
re
- . SECRET a |
, a

SUBJECT :. Review of Selected Items in the
, Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding Allega-
tions of CASTRO Cuban Involvement. in the . i
John F. KENNEDY Assassination

REFERENCE : -Letter by David W. Belin to
‘ . Mr. E. Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,
. paragraph 3 (Regarding Public Statement
by CASTRO, etc.), attached

BACKGROUND a LO ;

 

1. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,
Fidel CASTRO appeared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in
Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to an informal
interview by *he Agsoctates Press SO GER OREN Es
Daniel HARKER. _ Soe , -
2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,
8 September, and was in print throughout the country on
Monday, $ September. There can be no question from the
facts surrounding ‘the CASTRO appearance, which had not been
expected, and his agreement, to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

message on the record in the United States.
ape TATE SOT TAT AO LT TCE CET ee EAT TE TSE

®

SECRET

 pacr 63 of 212

COPY NO.

 
14-00000

” ot ; . t : ’
CO “SECRET .

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of
topics but dealt principally with American political.
leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex-

: ema ite
coriated in extraordinarily provocative fashion
(" ... KENNEDY is €_cretin>" ... the BATISTA of his
times es. the most opportunistic american President of
all time ..."). . . , an

4. “The interview also contained an uncomplimentary .. .
reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing
the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in

' the replay by United States newspapers like the

New York Times and Washington papers, with a result that .

 

_ CASTRO's "message" was significantly modulated.
5. In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided
pope eetatamaien i

until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story
appeared in the principal morning paper, the TimessPicayune, |
on Monday, 9 September;—page-7, under a three-column head-

line: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says U.S. Leaders
Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under. the
HARKER by~line: :
“Havana (AP) - Prime Minister ;
Fidel Castro said Saturday night: 'U.S. — !
leaders would be in danger if they helped . i
in any attempt to do away with leaders of oe

Cuba. '

e i “os

SECRET
