DO.

Lo .
everuc.. . YCAST, described as "unscrupulous and untrust-

_vorthy', Is inowa te have attempted to contract with ancther
privat. ‘eteetive for planting a remote-coentrolled Lomb in the

heatycarters of the Maitl Secret Folica, and has been reported
fo Lave undertaken similar extreme assignmonts for exile

grougs com Haiti and the Dominican Republic. (Based on ..
derognt::ry information oa file, DCS, in March 1967, decided

againat >reviously contemplated contact with BAST as a
source of information on Asta. }

BAST, DEX, and William V, TURNER of RAMPARTS

CA Stafi has provided information that during January 1967,
Willlany W. TURNER, who identified himself as a free-lante|
writer, visited the offices of the Asia Foundation, requesting
inforimation for a magazine article. He stated that he had
teen ashed by Sol Stern of New York to gather information for
an article in the New York Times. During his visit, however,
it 'rearre obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions —
about the financing of the foundation, rather than ite actual ‘
gutpos: or activities, When TURNER concluded the interview

‘he left a calling card with the firm name "REDEX-PACIFIC",

fle explained he had te have new cards printed, TURNER,
reportedly dismissed from the FBI in 1961, is noted to have
suthore.! an article in the November 1966 tasue of RAMPARTS
Magaztte in which be describes alleged wirctapping, sur-
reptiticus entry, ete,, performed by him while with the FBI,
Sol vtera, whom he claimed to represent, is asslatant
managing  ditor of RAMPARTS Magazine. :

. ia

Role ot YURR and BAST in CIA Moeting of Exile

(Uhre for egoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVE
with LR, FURR's connection with BAST, anda posable
coated tion between BAST's organization and RAMPARTS,
The following indicates the only CLA involvement La the chain
which onight be exploited ta subsequent atte:npte to link (CIA
to the entire affair in question, }
‘ : = O% : , .

“a2 cert 1963, |thon Chief, WE/3 and
uo.) Catia ttatlon, directed @angnorandun ty thu Chief,

 

 

 
 

 

C.

ig igha rd, 1. .

other then South Vietnam; and 4) CONSOLIDATED ARMAS

 

guia

solyavaphed by Lioy d FURR on Garrison's Charges,

 

aOR og vane NOME T already a fugitive witiess in the

i aul ry. is reported in the Washingtoa press of 27 -

of as having been polygraphed the pravicus day on the

¥ investigation by Garrison, According to the prese

/ MOVE submitted to.a. polygraph examination’ a,
tei at McLean, Virgtala by Lioyd FURR, In statements . |
tothe press, FURR tndicated there wae no indication of ;

de ebtlen to NOVIEL"s charges t that Garrison's case is a

“fraudt,

 
 
   

 

 

 

idoyd FURR Relationship to Richard L.. DAST and REDEX.

Toya FURR, 2 formes District of Columbia policeman end now
a private detective, ts a. self-proclaimed polygraph “expert!
and sound device speciatiet, “He has received publicity in the
past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewhse, Jr.
ia the St, “Mary's ‘S. a, vice” cane: in. 1953 afd in 1953 whea he

 

(Tsp had anclas sified contact with

E mh th 1962 to : soa = Sqatpesst offered for aate by EURN. ):

 

Kicuard 1. BAST, a Washington, D.G. private detective, gained
motericly ta 1965 by turalng op.a miseing witnean, previously °
unlocate:t by the Department, of Justice, in conection with the.
Dobby Bake? case. He is known to operate at least four
enterprises: bt) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,
private detective agency; 2) -REDEX VIETNAM, ING., a firm

. ports a vatiety of cormmodities ranging from Viquor to
ilee inte South Vietnam, ‘including, of late, U.S, -recruitnd
oirhs for a Saigon nightclub. he ty planning; 3): RIDEX
.. 2 firm which selle almoat anything to anybody abroad,

 

 

 

  

 
  

Lec 2 tien which sola sinall arma to. foreign ar
pe vite tadividuals abroad, BAST alvo prowices and atnbett atten
hath pesitteve caddie and counterqudte davices inthe ULS, and

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  
     

 

hie brother, Jacques, :
dn apite of

ent, BAST is eupplyidg arms to CASSAGNOL*s me
groups, further transactions of this type via BAST presumably ~~
would not be difficult to arrange." He aloo provided g detailed ©
taformatian on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had

mentioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and, the fact that .

“CLA couble-erossed them" (the Dominicans); :
: tC - 98,

An PRY report on PAST dated 19 June 1963 reports that
“Portign Service Reserve Officer; USDS" (his cover) had ~

_ reported, 16 May 1963: his attendance at dinner at BAST's home _
on 27 Aoril 196393|___ told of bis meeting with GASSAGNOL,
BAST's intention.to sell arme to the Dominican Repiiblic and
aittan exiles, ete, He also reporte that on, 7 May 1963, BAST
asked him to perform. some, transintion work. The tranelation,
he stated, related to BAST giving a power of attorney toons.
Luis MORENO Martinez of the Deminican Republic to prepare
documentation for logal cetablishment. of REDEX CORPORATION,
C POR A, a DR branch of BAST'a firm. According t 23
40% of the stock was to. be held by the head of the DR Na onal |
Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, arid an
{ndtvidual well-connected with, Dominican Republic police and

-@ groups. BAST is also noted ta have told 3

 

 

intelligencs ‘
of an offer HAST hud made to “bug'* the offtce of the Dominican
A “ a oe . ‘ .
a

 

 
 

  

 

i

Say TLS

 
rare a . . (

wf

i fitate for the Armed Forces on keilialf of Juan
“OP iid not indicate to if had perforried

the job 2%

 

Cihere is 20 record of a clearance having been iesued for
utilisatiua of Richard L, BAST or REDEX, }
