 

25X1A

 

SECRET

are looked upon as merely ae one of many categories of property.
We do not see thie as @ significant deficieacy. The supply
procedures established for the control of all agn-expendable
Agency property seem to us adequate ia the case of firearms.

Consistency

We find no major contradictions among the provisions of
the eceveral regulations having te de with the central of flrearme.
There are, however, a namber of igetances in which the guidance,
if nat actually contradictory, at least gives rise to uncertalaties
ia the minds of gome of those whe must deal with firearms. There
are enough of these seaming contradictions to call for a review of
the regulations on control of firearms for consistency within and
among the regulations.

Recommendation No. 5

That the Deputy Director for Suppert, in
consultation with the Deputy Director for Plans,
initiate a review of existing Agency regulations,
to incinde Clandestine Service lastructions, with
a view toward identifylag and eliminatiag poselble -
areas of conflict among the various Regulations
and Inetructions. ;

What Are see Checks oa Compliance with the Regulations ’

The periodic and continuing checks consist of audits by the

  
 

25X11

|
|
{
|
|

 

 

Sn Cusniig Goes) Logietice checke on questiona’ ie
requisitions, and the mechasiems for the reporting of general
property and financial accountability. We consider the checks to
be effective. One additienal check occure to us, which is readily
availeble but ie aot now applied. There is aot aow a requirement
on the Cable Secretary for the dlesemination to the DD/P ef cables
dealing with the control of firearms, We believe that it would be
appropriate for the DD/P to receive copies ef cables on thie subject
ia view of the extent to which he has reserved to himself authorities
in thie fleld,

 
 

SECRET

Recommendation No. 6

That the Deputy Director for Plans review
hie requizemeats on the Cable Secretary for
dissemination af cables and consider adding to
them # requirement for the diasemiaation te his
office of all cables dealiag with contra! of firearme.

Are the Regalations Knows, Understood, and Followed -

We find that persennel who deal with flrearme are aware of
the applicable regulations and heave a moderately good anderstandiag
ofthem., The degree of compliance with the regulations ie net easy
to agsese, but we have the impreesion that it ie high. The regula-
tions axe followad wall while the firearms are in or moving through
established supply chanaeia; however, regulatery controla are not —
always applicable ia as eperational enviroument. Whea we are
faced in the Agency with an operational exigency, we have no choice
but to do the hast we cna with the means avaliabic to us. It is aot
a case of regulations~be-damned but ef recogaizing thet the rege-
lations are act absolutely binding at all times and in all sitestions.

Can the Regulations Be Circumvented Without Riek of Detection /

Our inclination ie to give a flat “no” to this question, but
there is a possibility--altheagh a very slight one~-that a dishonest
employse could acquire a amall quantity of weapons for unauthorized
ase withouf too much risk of bis belag associated with them. The
examples we cite in our detailed report are quite far-fetched, and
they assame a lack of integrity on the part of an ermmployes. The
consensus is that, while it would be impossible to write 4 regulation
that would prevent a dishonest employee from engaging ia aa illegal
firearms traneaction, eur existing regulations are each that he
would almost surely ke caught.

Are There Past or Present Firearms Transactions That May
Ermbarrasa Ue In The Future °

Any iadividaal weapon that is traceable to CIA le a potential

source of future embarragament, because we have almost no control
over what happens te it after it leaves our hande. The potential for

~6-

 

SECRET Z|

 
ZORET

“Appropriateness -

fn our inguirics inte the appropriateness ef the regulations

on control of firearms, we repeatedly enceastered officers in beth
‘the Support and the Plans Directorates who feel quite strenagly that
there should be ane central poiat of comtrel, or at leact of cegnisance,
of the Agency's dealinge in firearms. There ie no auch ceatral point
now, although it seeme to us that the impart of the regulations is

that @ centralized control of flrearnse withia the Clandestine Service
was envisioned, We are not sure that a point of central cognisance
is needed, but we do belleve that the dealrability of it shonid be takea
ander consideration.

Recommendation No. 3

That the Deputy Director fer Plans have a
review made of the desirability aad precticality
of establishing 2 ceatral pelat of cogalaaace of
all firearme holdings and transactions withia the
Dizectorate for Plans,

 

Recommendation Ne. 4

. That the Deputy Director for Plans, by.
whatever mosag he considers appropriate, extend
te abound aad lateral pouches a degree of control
over the pouching of firearms equivalent to the
control thet exists ever outbound pouches, —

The regulations onthe procerement, shipping, storage, and
handling of firearms, with very miner exceptions, address thameelves
to the broad subject of government property tm general. Firearms

_ | ol

SHCRET

 

25X11A
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
    
   
  
   
 
  
  

SECRET

  

gmentation of the guidance may be unavoidable, but it does
ma for ease of reference,

the Regulations Complete, Appropriate, and Consistent?
Completeness

We find only one possibly significant gap in exieting regulations,
‘field fastallations, We have a question ag to the form in which thie

javentory should be submitted and aa to who should be the ultimate
ecipient of it. i

 

Recommendation No. 1

i

_ That the Deputy Director for Plans, in such
consultation with the Deputy Director fer Support |
ae may be appropriate, review the requirements
and the mechaniems for reporting of weapons
inventories of field inatallations and propoge euch
revisions of Beas may be needed to eliminate
exiating ambiguities. ;

 
 
  

In July 1968, the DD/ Pe add sed a memorandums & to the Chiefs
of Diviaions and Stafidae ee
tating that weapons would
ifte or as accommodation purchases without hie personal approval.
Since thie ie a standing inatruction, we thought it i hl ahd that
‘it be taken up into the permanent regulations. Fe ;
Eee

. The General Counsel was inutrumental fa having Fioeeeoe 25X11;
aed in January 1967, The notice specified that the ce of the
eneral Counsel was responsible for the control of all liaison with

he Office of Munitions Central. The notice expired 1 January 1968, |

ince this alse is an instraction of continuing effect, we believe that '

vit would be appropriate to incorporate it ato Agency regulations. |

|

|

|

{

|

|
25x

|

i

 

Recommendation No. 2

That the General Counsel prepase to the Deputy
Director for Support the publication in the Headquarters
Regulations of the substance of Maia | . 25X1A

‘SECRET
SEGRET

Shipment of Ordnance Materials

The vast bulk of cur firearms deliveries are moved as military
ahipmente under applicable DOD regulations. Requests for shipments
of asy sort that require handling iu any manner other than as pre-
acribed by law or regulation must be sent through the Office of
Logistics to the Office ef Security for approval.

 

Storage and Handling of Ordnance Materials

Explosives, ammunition, and other dangerous material are
etored ané handled in accordance with appropriate State and local
lawa aad military and civil regulations. WEHESS preacribes .
coatrols en the possession and headling of flrearme at Held stations.

point for ordnance materiata in the U.S. ie

 

officer the desirability of arntehing the depot ordaance epecialiet
with a list of these weapons. We will take the matter up with the
SAVA officer when he ceturne to duty from an eutended illeess,

Agency Regulatory Iesuances

We have a fair volume of quite detailed regulatory material
on the control of firearme in cur maqunis, The regulations derive
in large pert from iateraal Agency policy, rather thea having their
bases in Federal etatutee. The detailed regulations concentrate
primarily on the retatively emall volome of weapons cemmitted to
varieus miscellanecue activities invelviag (lrearme outelide the
areas of combat operations. The guidance appears under five
Separate subject categories in regulations, inetructions, sotices,
and book dispatches, Some of it relates apecifically te frearma;
some of it applies to firearme only as one of many types of property.

=~Z-

SECRET

8s

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
i
|

 

 

 
29X1A

25X1A

 

SECRET

Shipment of Ordnaace Materiales

; The vast balk of our firearms deliveries are moved as military
ahipmente under applicable DOD regulations. Requests for shipments
of asy sort thet require handling in aay manner other than as pre-
acribed by law or regulation must be sent through the Office of
Logistice to the Office ef Security for approval.

 

Storage and Handling ef Ordnance Materials

Explesives, ammenition, and other dangerous material are
-atored and handied in accordance with appropriate State and lecal
lawe aed military aed civil regulations. LEMME preacribae

controis.on the possession and handling of flrearms at field statione.
point for ordnance materisis in the U.S. is

 

officer the desirability of feralehiag the depot ordnance epecialiet
with a list of these weapons. We will take the matter up with the
SAVA officer when be returns to duty from an extended iliness.  -

Agency Regulatory issuances

We have a fair volume of quite dstalled regulatory material
on the control of firearme in our maauals, The regulations derive
in large part from interasl Agency policy, rather than having their
bases in Federal statutes. The detailed regulations concentrate

- primarily on the relatively emall volume of weapess committed to

various miscellaneous activities invelviag (ircarme outaide the
areas af combat operations, The guidance appears under five
aaparate gubject categories ia regulations, imetructions, aotices, -
and book dispatches. Some of it relates apecifically to firearms;
some of it applies te flrearme only ae one of many types of property.

-Z-

SECRET

go

 

 
13-00000

| 25X1A

   
 

ur request for a statement of action taken

 

on Recommendation No. 2 of 1G Report on - toutrol

of Firearms, enclosed are memoranda to 3/8 and

Executive Director Comptroller for vour : smatare.

Attached i report is returned tor your ‘Jes. ory

Sho Vay lara

5 Febru: ry 70.

 

FORM NO. 101 REPLACES FORG "0-105 Q
1 AUG $é WEICH MAY BC UleD. I

ne ene 61a Fem ane ty Perens bred

25X1A

 
 

104-10534-10207 lage

ee ae

 

ee]

& ppt 68-814 wathusted” re _
JFK assasination . Ang

 

& FEB i970 |

 

MEMOR IM FOR: Deputy Director for Support

   
  
   
   
  
  

SUBJECT — 2 Control of Firearms

REFERENCE Memo dtd 30 Jan 70 to DD/P, DD/S aad OGC

fe Executive Director-Comptrolier, same subject

3. Pursuant to Re
it is requested that the subst
Agency regulatory syetem. .

2X4 2. Coptes ofS

e of a ibe incorporated into the = 25X1A

\

J

|

mendation No. 2 of referent memorandum, |
tached for information. |
!

25X14 |

25X1 _

ce: 1G w/att

_ Distribution:
O & 1 - Adse w/att
--(1)- OGC Official FIREARMS
1 ~AGC/OL, ' Chrono [Rmaaiaiaia 5 February 1970)

25x1

 

>_>

 

 
13-00000

 
   

C 70-079

[SECRET oye say Hens

 

 

i
{
|
|
|
i
i
i]
3.0 JAN 1970
| .
! , |
j MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans
i Deputy Director for Support ‘
! Generel. Counsel
SUBJECT : Control of Firearms |
!
1. Attached is a copy of a report on the adequacy of |
the Agency's regulations on the control of firearms, which i
was prepared by the Inspector General. You will note that
: the report consists of a summary, in which all of the - |
i Inspector General's recommendations appear, plus a detailed !
i report of findings. : |
Hy . ; .
i 2. Mey I heave from each of you, within 30 days, a state-
i ment of the actions you have taken or intend to take in |
i Fesponse to each of the recommendations that are addressed. to
1 you for action. |
|
| |
25X14,
i i
\ :
i !
|
! Attachment: : ;
i IG Report: Control of Firearms .
' . i
| - . . :
| Le |
a |
i . fe a a ~! {
: 2 x 7.
SECRET. = (tt BC
B . ; 3 . i
. : !

 
   

quantities of ordaaace mate
Asta; the gecoad embr the other miscellaneous aetivitics
in which firearme play @ pert.’ The quactity of weapons committed
to this second categery of miacellancous activities ie minuscele in
comparison with those Supplied for war sense operations.

   
   
 
      
 

  

Procurement of Ordaance Material

The greut balk of the orduazee materials required for support
of current operations i ized evertly by the Office of Legletice

_ through requisitions le ‘the Miltary. Cavert firearme-

| procurement, wich ia ar value appronimetem.: a
percent of the total volume, is handled throagts

    

   
      
   

There aye a variety of programe within the Agency having to
do with firearma ia which weapons may be pracared threugh other
dian Office of Legistice channele. We have idwatified the following:
TSD's research and develapment program, SOD's weapons modi-
fication programm, the weapons pregram of the Vietnamese Affairs

Stali, SOD's foreign webpons: procurement progras, Project

   
 

DCS" foreign materiate ‘program, “and 3 DO Division proprietary
for the purchasing of foreigs materials. We found ail of these
activities to be ander adequate control.

 

 
