 

 

(oazs0-10024) Loon - ot a
— ~ meeps en
— -_- ° CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Cee ey

COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE INDOCTRINATIOW, © Riot Reproduce

ES

I have read Section 798, Title 18, United States Code, which speci-
fically refers to the subject of Communications Intelligence. -I .

am aware that there are special regulations of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency entitled "Communications Intelligence." I acknowledge.‘ -
that it is my responsibility to inform myself of the contents of
those regulations as they pertain to performance of my duties. I
appreciate that the preservation of Communications Intelligence
sources is of the utmost importance to the United States and that

the loss of such sources would be irreparable.

I have been informed that pursuant to law and as amplified by ~
Agency regulations, I am not to discuss with or disclose to any
person any information relating directly or indirectly to Communi
cations Intelligence unless such person is currently authorized to
discuss or receive such information or material of the particular ~
category involved. By regulation I am aware that the responsibility -
of ascertaining that such an authorization for another person is
valid and current, and that it is of appropriate scope, rests with
me. I am aware further that if a change in my assignment or status
renders it no longer necessary for me to receive Communications
Intelligence, my name will be removed from the list.of persons
authorized to receive such material, ..

  

I hereby affirm my understanding that no change in my assignment
or employment, including termination, will ever release me of my
obligation under the oath signed below. oe

OATH OF SECRECY

I do solemnly swear that I will not discuss with or disclose to any
person, regardless of his official position or status, any informa-
tion relating directly or indirectly to Communications Intelligence,
any information derived therefrom, or the nature of the sources of
such intelligence, until I have ascertained that such person has
been authorized to discuss and handle Communications Intelligence
and that his authorization has not been revoked...

 

. Ghz ks fled

WITNESS: 05 yD

 

 

 

DATE: 3 Ree EO

 

——-< 2
= Up CONFIDENTIAL .

    

 
