“his re ide t

“tour ‘of ‘Lata : egs
‘ing which a ‘report will be furnished; in purpose of this’
for “ANBARB-16_ to ‘explore the AMBARB mailing. operats nm Capabili

A listing’ “Of- AMBARBs awaiting assignine
UFGA 5739; a listing of dropped AMBARBs has been furnished

_ The AMSPELL raid on Havana. 24 August. 1962 ‘provided the domina
theme for. AMBARB exploitation subsequent to eh
this adventure was undertaken without JMW.

and counter. to. the policy: of our government, it, would be super ‘uous
of us to comnent.that:we regard’: .the event with ‘misgiving . fron ‘a ‘stand

point of KUBARK “control" over AMSPELL, At the same t me, & clear.

dist™inction must be made between the activities:

of. AMSPELL and those of the organization's military rship:

essentially, AMBARB serves only to: promote propaganda activity in the

‘Latin American countries where AMBARB delegates are assigned: and
additionally some delegates work -on cov assignments. with lo

KUBARK stations in fulfilling." ROSE:

the AMBARBs, however,. serve as xploit™.

strating the failures of Castroism and Soviétization of Cuban. life;
“as such, the AMBARBs are themselves removed from the center of such
controversial activities as the 24 August raid or the thréats of
_AMHINT-2 against shipping in.Cuba, Naturally, the AMBARBs support.
the policies of their organization and the.statements of its leader
as noted above, they could also bring their facilities to bear to
embarass ODYOKE, at the behest ‘of AMHINT=2,. -in the

to mount a concentrated propaganda barrage "condenini

to ANSPELL's unilateral undertakings. It*is_c¢

potential to mount any such campaign of suppor

controlled by KUBARK only to the extent that loca direct
dealings with the AMBARBs in Latin America, JMWAVE, for it s part,
exerts every possible effort to assure ‘that ANBARB repr tiv. 8
will not engage in any propaganda action ‘likely’ :t

or GYROSE policy courses, We are encouraged tq believe that, ‘hile
overall JMWAVE control of ANSPELL appears negligible at this time on
the large issues of striking direct blows against targets of oppor-
tunity, we do have fairly good control over ‘the subordinate AMBARB..

‘leadership within AMSPELL,

é

 
  
 
 

 
 

velop at a separate pace w
me embroiled in controversy o¥

 
  
  
 
 
   
  

 

hat only by this means
its people necessary to.
m of ove RB propaganda: activities
activities. will also. ‘continue to- be paid
ARB. to. its delegates). . JMWAVE does not’ believe.
ds a on ul -purpose “at ‘present for local Stations’ t
t.to fund thesé regular AMBARB activities, since it’ sho
_ remembered that these overt! .AMBARB activities give the org:
:.4ts public reason for being and, therefore, a cover faci:
Which AMBARBs may be utilized by local Stations for cove
Since AMBARB is jealous of administering the funds for its over
activities, JMWAVE feels it should be permitted to do so for the sa
of KUBARK rapport with the group. At the Same time,.
delegates receive from: AMBARB propaganda materials % guidance,
_ and funds to cover local ex ses in carrying out the overt, AMBARB : .
: . mission, local Stations ar ot-preciuded from exerting influénce on «| wed
' AMBARB activities supporting 'GYROSE objectives. Since the local :
‘Stations will be paying the Salaries of all but one. AMBARB.<i . their.aregs,
as well as funding covert activities, it should be possiblé for local
Stations to influence overt AMBARB work substantially, By agreement
with AMSPELL, all covert utilization of AMBARBs by local Stations is .
strictly by arrangement between-the ANBARB representatives themsel ve:
cand the Tocal- Stations, and-AMSPELL expects no information cone
“ “Buch. covert use ¢ither. from JMWAVE or from its AMBARB represéntatives
dn the field, ~ uo

 
  
    
 
     

  

    
  

ke

  
 

 

  

 
  
 
 

 
    

  
  

. Over a period of time, we expect that local Stations will graduali

' take over complete AMBARB funding. For example, in Chile the Santiago
Station has assumed funding of all three AMBARBs, although BD-3269
required that 1% fund only one AMBARP.. We convinced ANSPELL to accept
this situation, so that in effect the Santiago Station will exercise
direct, local control.of AMBARB Salaries, even though; RB Swi Te!
continue for the time being to send the delegation $600.
the conduct of ‘overt AMBARB: activities in Chile. =.

  
 
     

    
 

There is an additional advantage in permittin MBARB-to “pay
salary of at least one of its delegates by mail from Miami and in
allowing AMBARB to disburse funds, provided by. JMWAVE, for overt
AMBARB activities. By. this ‘means JMWAVE is-in.: posit in
from AMBARB a coordinated monthly progress .reportv6f t ert

. AMBARB work; this report’, forwarded-in. the group of attachments to
this dispatch, in turn furnishes Headquarters with a single point.of

   

reference in assessing the overall] AMBARB overt effort, Naturally
for its part, JMWAVE does everything possible to elicit from AMBARB-
‘RS complete an accounting as possible of the monthly propaganda Se
activity undertaken by each AMBARB delegation throughout Latin America,
Since it is doubtful that a timely, coordinated picture of all AMBARB
activities in all countries could be obtained by means of separate
local Station progress reporting on overt AMBARB work, JMWAVE con-
‘siders this system the most satisfactory for’ keeping tabs. on. such
widespread activities; we are doubtful that any centralized control

 

 
     

   
 

improvii tsing. KOLA and RIMM were asked 2 moniter the report,
ntl the ° early, morning. of 25 ‘August. :

  
  
 
 

    
 

point:of satiation, but the essentia
in the opet E As. the pene of cannon:

 

MSP} :

1\. . As statea earlier in this report; it was an Agit/Prop a
designed ‘to alert the peoples of Latin America, and impress
the world, the reality of the Soviet buiidup in ‘PBRUMEN... I
‘destined to - albeit students are apolitical by classical definition

- place AMSPELL in a leading political position in framework of Lat:

American and PBPRIME anti-CASTRO, anti-Communist activ:

realized this and prepared for a deluge of propz

By the time JMWAVE had received instructions from Headquarters © to

caution ‘them about gloating ‘over their success, this’ propaganda scam:

paign. was already launched, Publicity was a buyers mi f

and there was not enough AMSPELL participants or: ‘of fict

the demands of press, television, radio, and personal appearances. © ae

Their degree of foresight and organization can be appreciated by. the :

fact that the AMBARBS throughout the hemisphere were standing by. with

instructions ‘for agit/prop should ODYOKE.
/AMHIN yar ticipating an the = action, —

fe JMWAVE, however, ‘cantiot. ‘afford to be very. objective about: AMSPELL
: revolutionary zeal that not only aggravates the cold war exchanges, ©
but places the Task Force ~ and ultimately, KUBARK - in an awkward —
‘and untenable control position as far as PBRUMEN independent action
is concerned. It would be no overstatement to say that this exile
group. could Sink a Soviet vessel and force ODYOKE to the brink of
war. Therefore, on 30 August, when AMPALN-4 reported, that th
attack on Havana-was the first of a three-phase plan
being an attack on a Soviet vessel in Havana Harbor
abandoned in favor of an attack on a surfacecraft in
it was obvious that the JMWAVE/KUBARK control: relati
AMSPELL must be submitted to.a profound and firm reappraisal Thi
was done under the supervision of REUTEMAN and through a series of

-eonferences with TROUCHARD, ZAMKA, NOEMAYR and” NELANDER, ..The. results.
were reported to Headquarters by REUTEMAN: in WAVE= 7895 on :
1962. In short, this Reference reviews the AMSPELL “independent course

. of action, consequent liability KUBARK, framework of the JMWAVE.

i relationship with AMSPELL and present commitments, and pointed out.

! that the ultimate test of the control issue would be the. severance:

‘ of AMSPELL support funds. Headquarters comments and concurrence.

’ were requested but during the first week in September, this problem. _

, was treated during a series of conversations between the Chief of. ©

: Station and the Chief of Task Force, A final decision is pending at

4 the date of this writing. .

\ .

‘

    
 
 

   

    
 
 
 
 

    

    

  
 
 
 

       

    
 
  
 
   
  
  
 

 

  

 

  

5

 
    
   
   

  
 

AMAINT/ 2.

 

 

 

“AMSPELL:

  
   
 

 

is.
AMHINT
nterna

mar dtd
tional:

  
  

 

  
 
  

:B, AMHINTS:
: . August began with euphoria among A
return of some of their members. who. had. par
delegation to Helsinki and the reports of successfu
out at the, Communist Youth: Festival hel there. j
/ however, to offset the coatinuing frustration, of: failur
AMHINT~53 on the BANYAN ‘series of operations s::>A
returned from Helsinki and West Berlin as yet, the,

“AMSPELL. vented their ire in “August memoxandun to JMWAVE,-.i1
JMWAVE was blamed for much 0!

 
  

 

 
  

 
   
   
     

 

  
  

   

  

_ JM ; he support failures in ‘the AMHINT ~~»
section and too much operational interference in the.
An urgent “interview” was requested. am

  

 

 
     
 
  
    
    
  
 
    
   
 

When AMHINT-2 finally returned, a meeting. was. held with him on
17: August. ZAMKA, -NOBMATR, | and NELANDER represented ANHINTS , AMSPELL.
_and AMBARBS, ‘respectively, and during a. ‘two-hour | on, ai
the points set forth in ‘the ‘AMSPELL ‘memorandum, 2 f :
JMWAVE control problem with AMSPELL. In retrospect, the. meeting ‘co! cel
ot -be considered a success, . Although some AMHINT ‘paramilitary. opera~ -
adamant ih retaining © ©) oi

- tional problems’ were resdlved, AMHINT-2 was
control .of AMBARB funding of at least one official delegate in each -
He refused to even discuss LCFLUTTER for himself ~ he did —~
hose present that this was personal and ‘that other

country.
however assure t
heir own discretion. One issue which.

AMSPELL leaders may submit at t
“gould have made for more rapport in the meeting, |W
for their vessel, the JUANIN 1, > which has been proc

Six months. Négotiatiors on this point eventually

pletely when AMSPELL rejected. the terms of- the

Agreement. The meeting as concluded with arra

meetings on. the discordact points in the near future.

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 

‘is These meetings never: materialized, forint
opted. to approve the “AMBARB funding -arrangement’ ‘i
moment - and play 2 waiting game on AMHINT-2 refusal .to accept
tec ical “and psychological assessment. Possibly, when all other -..
Jeaders had beén assessed, AMHINT-2 could then be issued an ultimatum

essentially “shaming™ him. into acceptance. ~~. .

 

 

20 August, Mother message was received from

fle advised ANSPELL headquarters in Miami
the 2ist - no request for an operation, no
And as the days .

About this time,
AMHINT-53 (Reference B).
that he would arrive on
mention of mode of travel, point of exit
passed no sign of AMHINT-53 either...

 

   

 

SS wide wo

   
 
  

 
 
    
   
    

H. <DIR=32503
I. “UFGW=1264, 4

 

 

  

osu. (l. The Progress. Report for ANSPELL,- co
:. AMHINT activities, for the tionth of August 1962, follows:

        
 

 

A. ANSPELL
e el): General

   
 
  

 
 

i evelopuenta. are repo
Prior to this action,. sand

Senay related to cae a SuvAVE-ANSPELL meet ng on support/contro

 

      

: Distribution: : ne
3. = C/TFH, watt. wfshe

 

ATTACHNENTS: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I) J, K and L, UsS4€ lek df?

 

   
     

 
 
    

  
  

Salariés °g12240.00.
Operations 7700.00

a. AMBARB:Séction?
Processing.. _ 2113.00

 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

   
  
  

   

b. AMHINT Section: © Support
c. AMSPELL. ose Salaries $9000.00"
: : ‘Overhead 2100.00

“Operations. ~ -13900.0

   

3) Intelligence Production:
WAVE-1415 ~ Truck Convoy in Area of T

  
 
 
  

dix

  

Foreign Personnel at Guatana - Pinar del Rio.

 

 

 

 

WAVE-1416 -

; WAVE-1442 - Arrival of Soviet Ships at Casilda.
WAVE-1456 - Arrival of Soviet Vessels at Cas
WAVE-1457 - Arrival of Soviet Ships at Bares.

  

   

4) Development and-Plans:

- All planning phases of AMSPELL activities supported by. JMWAVE
at the present time are subject to’ the results of meetings with AMSPELL
concerning ‘increased control, and, the decisions of JMWAVE to continue

--a support relationship if an acceptable degree of KUBARK control ‘can
- be established. . Meanwhile, however, in the developmental stage is the
organization and training of. an AMSPELL Intelligence Section, to -

function independent of. ANSPELL normal operations and directly in co.
es

 

   
 
   

     

  

 

ion ga
as AMS

 
 
  
 
    
 
 

tional status. —
15 October 1962,

team destined for Or
and are awaiting infiltration.

    

5) JMWAVE-AMSPELL Contact Plan: . .

 

ith Reference H request for JMWAVE-ANSPELL

‘Yn accordance
ing plan is submitted:

_couvact arrangements, the follow

   

PAGE NO
“They -nave been. “Aven in all tad acnools ard. pintleulerly,- isp Aiess.
aan phacese [In qalto, taey auve been _iven in ell tho schools sad public
placese - 0 Sw LD fae fara

“We anclose paper elizpincs. ‘

 
104-107-1004).

 

; “-FROPAS DK DA

Redlo Broadcasts- a) “apetitenara" a

een, days Jordays ard

7350 Gite. le edSd. Poi
dedresdays end Saturdays
gris Pome Cotas

“Broadcusted ‘tatoa ght Radio Maavior®
“gatationse . . :

. ») Dramatical ‘broadcaste-on Sundays ‘through Radio -
beuatoridna. Also sonetiags through Hadi Parqu
‘(popaler stution). a .

i Coaereio" (gaits)
"gl tele.craro" (uuayaquil).
"Bh Univer so" (Guayaquil) —

de can count on ‘those ot Guayaquil, for any aelp w we ) read.
aercio", only lately because tae wirector was citan ged ..

 Necantne "La" Calle" Tao pages eden weeks ais: “mo azine has” a wide
etreurluttony« .

: Yo: Lédves of. gropa=
onda tarozm out under ‘tae ame Of accion a-ticoamista, - froup or a
ized arid directed by tne wes, ftonedniveralty Student yroup.wntch °
‘3 in contact with. "Brigadas®

 
: ibs ein nit ‘ta
la) Fatido Conservado
o} ama 4ento Indepenatent
ARSE: . :
ao ovintento ‘social cristiano. .

Hoe ‘the lest. cloctions ‘tae Heabezs of -taa
rservadores, winnin.: tne Jeguty Sousé6 end
| Gayor's oftices hyvays ail end sa jae eh
exca oe : .
| ve ‘can oly fally on taese ‘tac
: in the breakin: OL relations.

Seen fie 2 -

Rien “sciooh
We nave its full sazgort

>) Ji. ivers ity |

The _roup Bry. adas" isiv aicarias atch nas: ccoaplisned |
~ great. labor inside tne staueat réld and in tae Dadian sec CO!
of is of leré-tendency bat aes dexscratic. ori sins

Eetvevetind de Guaya 2g. D.

Tae executive ‘combttes’ is cancrolled:

is xilton @urlans’.. We neve coaections. an
with: the representatives of wdantolo.y,:¥1
sreattectars, Harcelo Aviles

ae representatives in. ‘tae ge saiversity Yourell ‘are all “Cesserat
ente and “wilson -kerales

 
cre. “Controlled by Communists=. by Victor Zafitze ‘(thie “asn
been fa Cute sevecal times).

“ ORTP= we nave its’ fall ‘sar porte: we can ‘obtuin tron ‘its represen=
 Eattye at t Bes rador, “anole siriquez, any ‘uelp ae went

 
