 

104-10331-10089 ee

a ae ot SECRET

. From the Desk of Robert J. Eatinger

HOTE FOR: {<b el

FROM: Robert J. Eatinger
DATE: 07/19/95 08:53:41 AM
SUBJECT: Specter Request

Joan, please print off and give to Jeff,

{have spoken to the Histerical Review Group (HRG), which is processing the JFK collection under the JFK Act, regarding the two
questions that-Sen. Specter posed to the DCI. Here is their response.

Specter asked the DC! whether there is anything in the JFK collection about to he released:
1. concerning Oswald's connection(s} to foreign powers not previously disclosed; and

2. concerning Oswald's connection(s) to foreign powers that CIA did not give to the Warren Commission.

Response to Question 1: There is no information to be disclosed that links Oswald to any foreign powers other than those previously
released (Cuba, USSR). However, there will be additional details made public about these contacts. For instance, the Russian intelligence
officer who met with Oswald in Mexico City has written a book that has information not previously known to CIA. Also, under the
progressive declassification standards of the JFK Act, many details on Oswald's activities have been declassified and released (and the
JEK Board may release more),

Response to Quastion 2: The HRG is unaware that any of this information was not previously shared with the Warren Commission.
However, it is possible that there may be some additional details or specific documents that the Warren Commission did not have. The
HRG would have to review the Warren Commission Report, then compare the specific documents provided to the WC with the documents:
in the collection te see if there is any difference. To do this, the HRG would have to dedicate a couple of reviewers to the task for a
significant period of time. | told the HRG that | would get back to them on whether this comparison was required by the DCI.

 

 

FYI, The House Select Committee on Assassinations’ report indicated that the information CIA had not shared with the Warren
Commission related te assassination plots against Castro, not to Oswald's activities.

ce: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

SECRET
