18706900. -

bo SECRET

 

%

 

| The Secretary of State, Ambassador Thompson, and other
senior officials in the Department of State were informed of
our reservations about Nosenko's bona fides and our fears that
he might be a dispatched KGB agent. In discussions about the
possibility of Nosenko's eventual deportation, the Secretary
of State expressed serious concern about the adverse reaction
that such a move might have on other potential defectors.

The Director of Security, State Department, was informed
of the bona fides problem at an early date. We have worked
closely with this office since then on the problem of eval-
uating the significance of Nosenko's information as it affects

the security interests of the State Department.

 

Because so much of Nosenko's information affected U.S.

internal security matters for which the FBI bears primary

 

responsibility, and because the possibility that Nosenko was
a KGB plant had a direct bearing on the validity of certain
1] FBI operations, the FBI was kept fully informed on our views
: about Nosenko's bona fides and our progress in interrogating
and investigating him from the moment of his defection. The

FBI liaison officer was told of our reservations on Nosenko's

 

bona fides as early as 5 February 1964. The Director of the
FBI and his deputy for Internal Security, William Sullivan,

i were kept completely up to date, and we coordinated all major

9

EGRET
 

 

   

SECRET

aspects of our handling Nosenko with them. After a long
meeting with Sullivan and other FBI representatives to review
Nosenko's case on 1 April 1964, the FBI interposed no objec-
tions to our proposal to restrict Nosenko's movements and
commence hostile interrogation. Subsequently, the FBI for-
mally agreed with our findings on Nosenko, at least to the
extent that "On considering carefully the results of your
interrogations of Yuriy Nosenko and your analysis of. his
statements and activities, it does appear he is not what he
purports to be. While this Bureau is not in a position to
draw any conclusion in this case, we do recognize it is
possible that Nosenko could be a Soviet plant or agent pro-
vocateur."

The then Acting Attorney General Mr. Nicholas Katzenbach
(and several members of his staff) were apprised of our res-
ervations about Nosenko on 2 April 1964 and an opinion was
sought from him both as to interpretation of the exclusion
and parole agreement, and as to how we should proceed in the

event that it proved necessary to deport Nosenko from this

"country.

Efforts to Keep the KGB from Learning of Our Awareness of

Nosenko's True Status

 

From the time we learned that Nosenko had been sent to

this country on a KGB mission it was obvious that if we were

10

SECRET
 

 

 

1 A A RRS OA ater MD to metalation REA ARENA

grey

ad hoc basis. Nosenko defected on 4 February 1964, and. the
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Special Assis-
tant to the President on National Security Affairs, McGeorge
Bundy, General Carroll, Director of the Defense Intelligence
Agency and the FBI were all notified immediately. On 5 Febru-
ary 1964, General Carter reported the defection to an executive
session of USIB and followed this up with formal statements to
USIB members on 11 and 19 February 1964, which stated that
Nosenko's bona fides had not yet been established. It was
agreed that no DS number would be issued to Nosenko, and that
he would be handled ona special basis by this Agency. In
fact, normal USIB interest in Nosenko as a defector dropped
off drastically as it became quickly apparent that he had no
positive intelligence interest of value to any part of the
community.

The President was informed of the full extent of our
suspicions about Nosenko's bona fides by the then Director,
Mr. Mccone, on 11 February 1964. Mr. Patrick Coyne, Executive
Secretary of the PFIAB, was given a similar briefing by
Mr. Helms on 19 February 1964.

Generals Carroll and Fitch of DIA were also subsequently

informed of the problems about Nosenko's bona fides.

8

SECRET ©
 

 

b onemeneethie 5 a!

eer eptnins RSA soem = ete bewenhee naira oer

8D grep

investigations. We concluded that it haé been established
beyond reasonable doubt that Nosenko was a KGB agent who
established contact with CIA, subsequently defected on KGB
instructions, and that he came to the United States on a
deception mission. The implications of this mission had a
grave and direct bearing on U.S. national security. Although
our findings were supported by the results of two polygraph
examinations, the nature of the evidence was inadmissable in
a court of law. In any case, it is clear that Nosenko had
not been in a position to perform any overt act of transgres-
sion of U.S. espionage laws since 4 April 1964 when he was
placed in a restricted area and deprived of any conceivable
means of communication with the KGB.

Nosenko did not admit that he defected on KGB orders

or that he came to the U.S. on a KGB mission. He has admitted,

however, that he made numerous lies about his personal history
and about the details of his KGB service to U.S. officials,
both before and after arriving in the United States.
Coordination with Other U.S. Government Agencies

USIB Members. In accordance with the DDCI's ruling
relating to a defector who has been a member of a hostile
intelligence service, Nosenko's status and handling was dis-

cussed at an executive session of USIB and decided on an

7

SECRET
 

~)SEGRET

made available to representatives of the FBI for debriefing

 

on matters affecting their responsibilities. Although allowed
out for evening and week-end excursions, Nosenko was at all
times accompanied by 0/S personnel. In addition, he took a
two-week vacation to Hawaii, again accompanied by case offi-

cers and security guards. Evidence continued to mount that

he was a KGB plant, and at the same time it became obvious

that it would be impossible to proceed further to resolve

the many suspicious points and contradictions that had arisen
without changing the conditions in which he was being heid.
Nosenko was growing increasingly uncooperative, especially
when sensitive areas were touched upon, and constantly pressed
for the legalization of his status in the U.S. and the issuance
of an alien registration card. At the same time, Nosenko's
heavy drinking and other unruly personal habits were causing
increasing difficulties to the security personnel charged with
keeping him under control and out of trouble at all times in
accordance with Agency local responsibility. It was clear
that it was only a matter of time before he created a public
scandal. More importantly, he was in a position to communi-
cate with the KGB since physical control could not be absolute.

On 4 April 1964, Nosenko voluntarily underwent a polygraph

 

examination. The results of this examination indicated deception

4

SECRET
SECRET i‘?

  

on a number of critical points indicating that he was sent
by the KGB to perform one or more missions which also involved

his penetration of the Agency and its operations. It was

decided, therefore, that the physical circumstances of Nosenko's
} stay in this country would have to be drastically changed if

the Agency were to carry out its counterintelligence responsi-
bilities and adhere to the terms of the parole agreement. As

z a result, he was moved to quarters where his movements could

be more easily controlled, and his outing privileges were
suspended pending resolution of bona fides.

It is worth noting that had we not taken the above action
but accepted Nosenko at face value, it is quite possible that
we would have proceeded with a series of operational actions
on the basis of his information. The results of some of these
actions could have been very embarrassing to the U.S. Government
politically and damaging to U.S. national security. For exam-
ple, his chief operational proposal at the time, and one that
he was most insistent that we should proceed with immediately,
involved the compromise of a very senior Soviet official.

Bona Fides
Beginning in April 1964, hundreds of hours were devoted

to interrogations of Nosenko (in which he willingly cooperated)

 

and a great deal of time was spent on exhaustive collateral

6

_ SECRET
 

 

 

Sen mien RSID er ent Ra

nnn

 

™~

) SECRET

 

debriefed on counterintelligence matters during five meetings
in Geneva. He then returned to the USSR. He came to Geneva
again in January 1964 as the security officer for the Soviet
disarmament delegation. After a number of: meetings with his

CIA handlers he defected on 4 February 1964 and was secretly

_ taken to Frankfurt, Germany, crossing the Swiss 7German border
Si :

 

 

on the night of 4/5 February with alias U.S. |

 

documents. In Geneva and again upon arrival in Frankfurt,
Nosenko wrote out an asylum request, requesting political
asylum from the U.S. Government. .

Because serious doubts about Nosenko's bona fides had _
arisen on the basis of the information he had provided both
in 1962 and in the meetings in Geneva in 1964, it was orig-
inally planned to do a detailed bona fides debriefing and
assessment in Germany before making any decision about moving

Nosenko to the United States. However, unprecedented action

by the Soviet Government in respect to the defection of one
of its citizens forced a change of plans. On 9 February,

unidentified Soviet sources in Geneva leaked the news to the
press that Nosenko, described as an "expert attached to the
Soviet Delegation to the Disarmament Conference" had dis-

appeared, and that it was presumed that he had defected.

‘2

SECRET

We
 

eg SO eeret

 

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

In early or mid-1967, the Agency General Counsel was
provided a summary of the Nosenko case. The memorandum
sought an advisory opinion from the General Counsel on the
Agency's legal basis for its handling of Nosenko through
that date and on the legal aspects on the eventual disposi-

tion of Nosenko. Shortly subsequent to this memorandum to

|
|
j
i

the General Counsel, Nosenko took up residence in October 1967

in an apartment in the Washington area and was reminded that

should he wish, he could travel freely anywhere at anytime.

He gradually created a new life for himself in the United

snweeetanet:

States and has indicated on several occasions that he holds
no ili feeling about his handling by the Agency at anytime.

Background

Nosenko voluntarily established contact with CIA repre-

sentatives in Geneva in 1962. He identified himself as a

fale tiealateinteat ate

staff officer of the KGB's internal security directorate and

offered to sell counterintelligence information. This offer

was accepted and he was recruited as an agent in place and

SECRET
 

 

- SECRET e

Because of mounting pressure from the press, which included

much speculation that Nosenko was a high level scientist or

disarmament expert, it was decided that the State Department
would make a brief announcement acknowledging Nosenko's

request for asylum in the U.S. and identifying him as a

: {
member of the KGB. This was done on 10 February. On 11 Feb-

ruary, the Soviet Government delivered a note to the American
Embassy in Moscow asking how Nosenko left Switzerland and
requesting an immediate interview with him and his release.
On 12 February, Soviet Ambassador to the Disarmament Confer-
ence TSARAPKIN held a press conference in Geneva in which he
accused the Swiss Government of failure to cooperate in
locating Nosenko. Although the Swiss categorically rejected
these charges, the American Ambassador to Switzerland recom-
mended that Swiss authorities be allowed to interview Nosenko
to convince themselves that Nosenko had left Switzerland of
his own free will.

On 12 February 1964, on the instructions of the Director,
Nosenko was brought to the United States. He travelled by
commercial air, again using alias U.S. identification,
and was admitted to the country at New York City (in true
name) on parole under the provisions of Section 212 (d) (5)

of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

SECRET
 

 

se

>

 

On 13 February, representatives of the Swiss and Soviet
Embassies in Washington advised the State Department that
they desired interviews with Nosenko. On 14 February, in
Moscow, Soviet Foreign Minister GROMYKO called in Ambassador
KOHLER and protested "impermissable activities" on the part
of the U.S. in Nosenko's case. Soviet press spokesmen took
an even harder line to Western correspondents, and accused
the U.S. of kidnapping Nosenko. On the afternoon of 14 Sep-
tember, at two separate interviews, he spoke first to Swiss
Embassy and then to Soviet Embassy representatives. At
these interviews, which were also attended by State Department
and INS officials, Nosenko confirmed that he left Switzerland
of his own free will to seek.asylum in the U.S. In addition,
he replied to questions of the Soviet Embassy representative
to the effect that he was renouncing his Soviet citizenship.
On the evening of 14 February, the U.S. State Department made
a brief formal reply to the Soviet protest, then issued a
brief statement to the press noting that the interviews had
been held and that Nosenko had confirmed his desire to remain
in this country.

From the time of his arrival to 4 April 1964, Nosenko
was housed in the Washington area. During this period, reg-

ular systematic debriefing was commenced, and Nosenko was

4

SECRET
