‘
b)

14-0000 : ‘ ~ 7 ee me
in 7 = ot oo ie J

B-BoO-Ro BHT
~3-.

D. Det. i. furnish 1 C-54 oma crew dn stentby capacity until
further notice. Staniby capachty is heroin defined as espability to
position the ejreraft at any port of entry in east, south or amuthuost:
U. S. Srem Eosten to Los Angeles within 15 heures.

EB. Aseuning the subjects will be released in Havena er Mexico
City, bet. 1 will preyere mission folders fer Flights Trea moat
probeble perte ef entry to Isolation end Andrews Aly Ferge Base.

” RECHARD I. SKINNER

Distribution:
OQeig. &1 - CL Stat?
3-@

kody: SOBR
oettys

WU WWW
#66 ¢ 6 ¢ &@

 
 

: COG .

, OPLIN $28

ve

REG,

 

£35 CONTINGE

‘CHART. OR MAF RE REFLREXGE:
Seetioral vorozautical ubasts:

TASK OSGANTEATICH:

Deb. Po 1OWSth Operational Eves

Billy 3. a
1. SXTUATICNs

sear bell, Sorcerer.

Tantel L. Cersvell (U4us), B.

Re Teransky (Aldon) ave tH) diay he

 

ees. SPfPorte art: being nate +o 32
may evr without advance novice 2.

Miaad, Mexico Cicy, Svitesrlord, Sr.

coutangensy plen be Porcsabotad to
emplcy2es. °

)

The vortreLidag fants:
tht these enphoye?s were in Uuos
reviled siuee their uxpture: thei:
bare trsa acintatned.
A vets suth +!
“i then have $2 ae

 

  

for pisuning purposes the ont
Cisy or “other areas”.

 

  
 
  
    
 
 
  

Tearevors aa

 
  

 

 

hy requatsd.

rie

2
Ww
A

Teedaing Gaeap.

Major

2

hy

sbrun> (Arsen) end tiwra
honked by
tem year =

  
       
 
 
 
 

Ward;

 

‘3 gruveéare is

AY syperert ae

Mote wih oe iy wee £8, |

 

 

requss

 

 

 

 

. BS are thedz release

dosing ta2 entire

 
14-00000

 

Gt El

3. bee Yor black %24 sansport ghould ined: ;
1. Request that RELRASE SOUTINCENCY OPE a G22 be septonente
2. Port of entry. - .
3. Data, Local ‘time, axl ninficld desired Lor pies t upe
he Dasired aestinstien.

5. Other regurenen’s, fess. otretehers or burks in the event’
subjests are hospital ease. -

6. Name, oxganieation end Selephone mutber of rsqueating party.

T._ Rare end telephone mucbor of KUBERK contacts et loading
and off-Losting points.

a, Tae following personael sre unguledgeanle end charsed with the
respansibility of netiveting tito plier:

1 Major Richar’. I: skines, 20/asp/02/?
Organization: Air Guggort Divisies, D/P
Home Phone: JE 3-105 oo,
offiee Faens: Sterile Ne niborres pe 8.5085, Ex 3-855
; . Extensions 6862, 7654, TROT - : :
Rel line 1558 .

2, Me. Rover’ Marrero .
Organization: Al Sugport pistofes, DL/P
Bore Phone: JA eBid
Offiec Fhone: Same 85 Ls.

3. Major Billy Be Cabell, Commander, Tate i. ; 7
Organization: Dat. 1, ‘1h5th Operational Sraluaion end
Teeiiing Croup, Eeliu Air Forze Base, Florida.
Home Phone: 662737
' Gfftee Phone: Eglin Siz Fores Basa, Florida 631590

_h, Mejor Kenseth R. Burten, Css officer, Debs Be.
Organization: Bat. 1, 2G oe Cgerssienel sreluation end
: : Training Creup, Belin iv Peres Base, Florida.
Home Phone: 66265
" Offtes Pasne: Eglin 4k Fores Beae, Fiergda 631213

* Heke R= 2-0
74-0000

  
 
   
    
  
  
       
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

“ §.B-C-R-E-T

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

4, As an additional security precaution to provide a safe 2
haven, and after consultation with the Acting Chief of Station, a key, |.
to an apartment in the same building leased by Mrs. Marjorie we
Lennox, an Embassy secretary, was cotained. “Mrs, Lennox was
told that access to her apartment was needed fox photographic *

surveillance purposes.

  
       

VB ‘The Station Gas then faced withthe p t
and security would work against holding indefinitely the lease to ~
the apartment. over NCNA since the owners-of the building were “
- cancelling. sub-lessors' contracts ‘and recalling leases. . It was,”

therefore, decided to install transmitters and switches in order to
* permit cntinued monitoring of the target from “@ distant listening
post. :Another three-man tearmof TSD technicians consisting of :
- David L. Christ (alias Carswell), Walter E. Szuminski (alias
Taransky} and Thornton J. Anderson {alias Danbreunt} documented =

      

robability

  

as tourists had been sent té Havana to install audio equipment in the.
Chinese Nationalist Embassy before it was due to be turned over to So
the Chinese Cornrmunits.. This operation aborted. This team was -: -.-
_ then seat to work on the installation of the transmitters in the apart-
ment over the NCNA office, eee “

    
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 

 

|. @ At 2400 hours on 14 September, Christ, who ‘with the |.
other technicians was -working in the target apartment, failed to keep?!
a scheduled appointment with Meet. At 0100 hours on the 15th of “ -
September, the apartment of Mrs, Lennox was entered into and. -
searched by Ctban authorities,. ‘apd she was t2ken into eustedy, At’
1540 hours’ on 15 September, Neet, the stay-bebind agent and his: wife
were picked up the Cuban authorities and detained..."

 

 

   

 

2. As of today the agent.remains in the custody of the Cuban
. authorities, His wife bas been zeleased and is still in Havana, Neet

was released.1715 hours 16 September and has sudsequently returned. pen
to Washington where be is being debriefed..:. Mrs. - Lennox was faltblan:
subsequently released and has also returned to Washington where she -_-.

 

  
  

ig being debriefed, The three TSD technicians remain in confinement.” -
They have been seen jn confinement but not contacted by an Embassy
oificer when ha fixst attempted to secure the release of Mrs. Lennox, “~

' Christ was last seen by Neat whez they were jointly interrogated

_ the moraing of 15 Septembar, At th t time Christ did mot appear .

 
 

104-10095-10276

 

 

    
  
  

“y

an office in Havana in the El Medico Building which is occupied .-

 

a 20 September 1980” oe

  

ORANDUM FOR: DIRECTOR OF CEI FRAL INT: ELLIGENCE -

 

bye
4
Cs

   
 

 

 

l, In May 1959," ‘the New Chine: News Agency ancmay opened
partly by business concerns and. partly used for re :
ments. Shortly thereafter, tha Havana Station obtained the con~
currence of Ambassador Bonsal and Miss Carolyn O, Stacey, an

Embassy employee, to mount an audio operation against NCNA through om
the wall of the adjacent apartment in which Migs Stacey lived.. In =:
November 1959, the FE Division sent one case officer and one TSD
technician to Havana, ‘and the installation of a microphone and tape
recorder was completed in Miss Stacey's apartment on 29 November

1959 :

 

Be ‘By Tune. 1960, it had become 65 dent that two of her 3 rooms”

 

 

 

occupied by NCNA possibly: housed commentaasia ipment and? *- =
were used for confsrences,” At that time FE Division

case officar, went to Havana and explore : y of improving”

the Operation, He = managed to lease an apariz ree “¥ | over the

 

 

3, In ee 1960, ‘a team of ¢ discs’ TSD technicians ‘who were e
in Havana on a separate SR Division operation agreed to install the ve
additional equipment required’ for the NCNA operation. A second FE ;

 

‘Division case officer, Robert Neet, came down to Havana; and he,

together with the technicians, installa: je microphon eandtape "|
recorder in the apartment obtained by ver the NCNA office, st
About this time the equipment was removed from Miss Stacey's

apartment, with the excention of the plastic probe which was lefe - -°'

in the wail and plastered over.

  
 

 

 
  

- knowledge as-to why-he was being held,)- “The:sub-lease for the
. apartment in which the men were caught is in the name of

_Was unsuccessful.. He was not pe Pa est

. company consists of a telephone answering service and a name on . the

. leaving: Cuba as tourists since the filling out of the lending card +

to have been maltreate

 

   

  

 

8. “According to articles in the aban papers ‘the three
technicians were arrested while in the apartment over the NCNA_
office and completing the installation of the equipment, The
press article adds that the key to Mrs, Lennox's apartment was :
found on one of. the technicians who identified the apartment.to <4:

which it belonged, All Cuban press releases have referred to the >
men by alias and. have not.identified them as Government or Agency
mployees.. It is unclear’ at prasent wnat, story had been: agreed: >
upon by the technicians and station peysonnel’ to be used in thé event
they were caught. (While being interrogated with Neet, Christ

indicated that Neet was his boss, and Meet consistently denied any

      

  
    
 
  
 
 
 

 

  

 

Behind agent with the original lease being 4 in the name.e
= Division Case Officer. Co

   

9%. Initial information indicated that. the. three technicians would »
be charged with espionage Nagainst the people ef China", Subsequent
press releases have been unclear on this point,- An attermpt by Consul
Hugh Kessler to contact the three men at 1730 hours on 17 September -

itted to sea the m but was told.

 

 

they were in custody, .= -

  

10. The three technicians travelled to Cuba as tourists. under

vary Hgkt commercial cover, two.of them working # fez 2 company i
New York and the third, one in Baltimore, In each case the cova

 

 

 

door; Telephone messages and mail are picked 2p. pe! riedic cally by an
Agency contract employes. The men were provided with this cover -
as well as unbackstopped Lome addresses for use when entering or-.

  

 

requires this information. Subsequent to their detention the home™ ~~~
addresses have been partially backstepped so that ingviries will 9 7. 7° 7
indicate that someone with this alias name had lived in the apartment 7
house in question, Insofar as the cover companies are concerned, |...
efforts are being made to provide a backstop to withstand inguiries

from the press should the Cubans reveal this information. In view |
74-00000

   

 

 

 

e Dorr tia ee caer cent enn

 

 

 

nia stent ten mines See

§-E-C-R-E-T

ef the thinness of the cover, it is uncertain whether this vill succeed, rs

ll, A cleared and Witting law firm ia New York has béen briefed. .
by Mr. L. Housten on the situation with the thought that inquiries :
seceived by the cover company could be referred to the firm of
lawyers from whom no comment would be obtained by the press or -

other inguirers,. The law firm has been briefed on the éntire situa-
tion 50 that they may be in a position to act if any action by them :
appears desirable or feasible. Jt would not appeaz that much support

of any kind can be obtained from the lew fizm or the iaw firms in-
Cuba’ which are associated with’ ‘thes: oo .

 

 

 

 

 

 

12, Insofar as ‘the families are concerned, one of the technicians
is a bachelor presently on home leave between two tours in
His father, a cook ina diner in the Boston area, has been conta acted
by the Cffice of Security, and he will get in touch with Security if
he receives any inquiries on this m iter, Security, by the sarne --
token, will keep in touch with him as the Cubans reveal their i inten-
tions and course of action. = oes ;

 

; 13, The wives of the cther two technicians have been told what
kas happened and are being contacted at least once daily by TSD
staifers and their wives who have been briefed on the situation,
conference with the two wives was held in TSD’ on 19 September to go

over the whole situation and determine if there ware any personal,

=

»

 

 

‘ hh.

problems on which the Agency could be of ‘help. “For the time being

  
 

the wives are telling their neighb
trip. This story will be adjusted

the Cuban Government takes, whether the , aliases remain unbroken

and whether recognizable photograpis of the individuals are released-° ...

: . : . t : : wos oe
to the press, The two wives so fer have taken t tha bad news exceedingly °-
well, Tt . : rns :

 

RUDOLPH E, GOMEZ)

Acting Chiet, WH oe ee
Distribution: :
DCI - 2 Wa-3 :
DDCI- 1 , Bo}
BD/P- i O5-i
TOPs - 1 Sle. i

 

 
