 

 
    

 

~ispaTcH | we

Chief, We

  

  

Chief, S8

    
   

 
 

JAS March 1959000.

_.Ghiet of Statton

    
 

 

REDCAP +
Grigorly Ye,GCLUB and Costille Contact

Actas Bere

 

ae 1yOGLO
HQ OFSE ONLY

   
      

1. On 18 February the undersigned was invited to lunch by Grigorly
Ye GOLUB, The first overture was made by Colub during a Consular Corps
lunch langh on 12 February. Following this lunch, the group divided up
_into smallor tables of seven or eight for coffee and cognac. Golub came
directly to Costille's table where the Canadian Vice Consul, the British
Vice Consul and two Finns were already sitting. His first words were
directed to Costille, Golub stated that he would like to invite Costille
to lunch some time but understood that it was against regulations for
Americans tc socialize with Soviets. He cited as an example the former
American Vice Consults constant refusal to lunch with him. Costille
responded that this was a personal thing and that all Golub had to do was
to ask him, Golub promised that he would. A call was received on 16 an
February, and the date was set for 1200 hours on 18 February. : mG

        
       
   
   
   
   
       
     
    

2. The lunch lasted for three hours and took place at the Adlon
Restaurant, which is one of Golub's favorite restaurants in Helsinki. We
will report the whole conversation for whatever it is worth. As Golub
will have to sign Costille's visa to the USSR, Costille mentioned that he
was shortly (February 28th) planning a trip to Moscow and Leaingrad on a
guided tour and would like any advice Golub had aa to the best restaurants
and night spots to visit in these cities, Golub said that he was aware of
Costille's trip, as his visa reauest had to pass through him. He stated
that it was an excellent idea for Costilie to go to the Soviet Union, and
gave him two or three restaurants in each city. He again brought up the
issue of Americans abroad refusing to have contact with Soviets, He stated
that he understood our feeling because of the Hungarian incident, but felt
that this was a long time ago and should be forgotten, He felt the more
the Soviets and Americans Bite ether the better off the Ghole world would
be. He cited as an example ‘t! 2 (AEPAWIEE/3 tri (Seo OFHA}3748, para 3,
& Feb. 1959) He then proceeded to describe Qi’ to Costille and asked if
Costille had met her before. Costille answered that he had once or twice
at Embassy functions, as he had all Fulbrighters, but that he did not know
her personally. Golub was evidently very impressed with QEy39%etating that
she knew Russian and had a sincere desire to learn more ebout the Soviet
Union. He added that the trip was expensive but (i/’ was borrowing the
money from her parents and. was planning to pay it baék once she got a job.
Golub thought her trip was an excellent thing.

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         
      
 
 
      
     
 

3. The conversation turned to comparative Foreign Services. Golub
stated that he 1s allowed one paid vacation to Moscow a year. However, if
he wants to take any more vacations, he has to pay for then himself. He
cited as an exemple his wife's recent trip to Moscow where she visited her
sick mother, This he personally had to psy for, as they had already used
up their one paid vacation. Golub stated he could not afford a car and
that he had to pay for his apartment out of his salary and was not given a
rent allowance. (The Golubs still have no children but are very desirous

of having a family.)

4. Colub was quite proud of his war record during the Second World
war. He then stated what a terrible thing it would be to have another war
because of nuclear weapons. He felt that the Scviet Union end the U.S.,
even with different systems, cculd find a way to live together peacefully.

 
   
         
   
     
       
 
 

    
  
   

 
 

acer trc

    

wa” USE POLO S FOTOM
+0

pv eo

 
 

0dt 017240911)

cag ane men a st nee ne ee ae

[py

; RETURN TO CIA
Background'Use Only
6 - - - ~ Do Nat Reproduce ®

a SECRET , “
3

RN Eh PRLED INE

 

 

ISSTRUCTIONS: Uoe atncer designations ia the “TO” cohunn Number each comment  coneepond with the aumber ta te “TO calms
WLANs Mises the ahest indoe eark coumvet, Gach cfow wheal date and initial scheva maid. jaeuthinerts beasts futher rownag. A

Fore Rewang amd Read shest pbouid NOT be removal bem the afteched MECORL doce,

 

DOCUMENT NUMBER |

COCUMENT DATE

 

pcencees

 

 

 

 

 

romwaroce: Nts | COMMENTS
fi ! a NOTE: It a copy of attechments are removed. tram the a.
oy ! : . f tached dacumeal. sete the location of the eepy tadior stack
: went heress. [1 this RECORD COPY is to Se retained in
the bles st the Desk, call the Conia! Pile Sagtion tor pen . i
ee pms 8 0 end Le SK/D; :
ad i
~ :
*
!
2
wp
a
nb
we FILE TITLE
GeLvs, bri
wo
od
Net
—
in) em
OAM Ko. , , anit
L rocr ss 610a SECRET CHRONG ~ DETACHED
 

 

 

 

4

 

 

3fv

CONTINUATION OF |
OSPAICH i
- wel

 

 

 

 
 
  

   

 

Costilie stated that perhana in the nct-toomdista-t future both tre U.S.
ani the ISSR would have more to fear from ch an [rus each other and
breught up the cownune issue. Cost: tat the comaunes were
coarletely alien to his way of th 4 were tre mort obfecticnable
way of living he could possibly isscire. Gelud responmied that Costilie
Rust remember that China and the USSR were cifferert countries and that
what micht be good for China might at necessariiy be food for the USSR.
He cid not actually state but indicated that he would net Like living in
& comune ani said that he perscnaliy liked the feeling of owning a few
things. At no time did Golub arpear ureet or surrrised at Costillets
asking such cuestions and was always prepared with a guick answer. He
is quite knowledgeable and conversant on Marxisn/‘Lenini sn,

  
 

       
 

   
  

    
  

 
 

 

     
 
       
     
 
   
 

5. During the lunch Golub made a rumber of references to the amount
of work he had and complained that he cid not have more help at the Soviet
Consulate. He stated thet his only male assistant was Lyubimov (evidently”
Mikhsil Petrovich Lyubimov) who was only in the Consulate part time. He
stated that this was Lyubimov's first essicment outside of the USSR and
that he was quite young and naive, though very intelligent, Lyubimov
epeaks Snglish and Swedish. Golub stated that Lyubimov was quite shy. and
was apprehensive. about going out and meeting peorle. Golub stated that
Lyubimev had a fiancee in Moscow and appeared quite lonely here without

her.

-6, Golub is extremely congenial eni likeable and enjoyed playing the
part of the host. His Finnish is excellent and he claims to imiow no English.
However, when Costille was having difficulty with Finnish, Golub was able
to put these English worda into Finnish, He picked up the tab for the meal
but undoubtedly will be reimbursed as he put the bill into his pocket.

 
         
    
     
    
    
          
     
   
 

7. When Costille appeared worried about getting his visa in time for
the trip on 23 February, Golub stated not te worry that he would personally
seo that the visa came through in time, Golub phoned Costille on Saturday
at the Embassy to tell him that all the visas of the Americans meking the
trip were returned from Moscow approved. He stated thet ne had made a phone
call to Moscow requesting they hurry the visas up.- Otherwise, we would have
never received our visas in time, according to Golth. Golub then invited
Costille to be his guest at the Soviet-Finnish ice hockey game in Helsinkt
on 22 February. Costille accepted, Nothing of importance was done or seid
at the game except that Golub apreared ouite upset when the Finns around
him cheered whenever a Soviet player fel! or was knocked down.

8. Golub phoned Costille on 26 Februery wanting Costille to have lunch
again with him before his departure to Moscow un 22 Februzry. Costille de-
clined because of previous engagements, Golub wished Cestille a pleasant
journey and premised to call Costille when the letter returned,

RCODINE NOTE: When Costille firet asked abou tations, Roodine
advised him to accept for, as a menber of the! it would be

normal and not inappropriate,

  
        
       
       
     
         
     
 

* then Net
Willias' i. Costille

    
  
   
 

13 March 1959

 

  
 

Distribution
3 °- WS

= .

 

  

 
