 

 
 
 
  
 

 

   
   
 
   
 
 

 
 

“erganization. win tha Plovaly
_ the ‘organization was. to_obtain. ‘ark
nt-in Plovdiv.
n hand pranades”
ERISTOZOV, who. ie tura del. vered
cseastonally ‘vieited hin. -

 
 

 
 
  

seine, and he has: alyo heant ef ets “clashes that «
‘Gorjant: and the Militia ‘at Kukled on ‘Uaayragsy
“92 tay 1951. He had never seen any of tae rabél
‘wham he met in connaction with the Trodorak deserters
courier vetween the Gorjand and Angel SCE |

  
    
 
  
 
  
  
  

 

WIKOLGY. heard that in June 1961 the Ptoriiy police “discovered a@ clandestine y
redio transmitter, made in the united States, hidden in tho Piovdiv cenetecy. © i -
Doctor Hans TCVACSY and some'woran were arrested in. cennsction ith tne,
incident. (YATEV, who also heard of the incident, stated that Ko wngey was
relecred after 4 few weeks.)* .

   

(0n°22 Nay 1951 NIKOLOV was’ told ty nis teother, Peter that at 2 place called
Gols Mogila there ware three Truiovak deserters wy. and that he-(Jvan) | .
should provide them with bread.in the nang af the rground organization. i
_NIXCLOV had not known the Trudoriks before.” MIFOLOV carried bread to the -t
> Tradovaks three times, but he stopped when thy police: vegan. sirveilling adm. :

  
  
   

 

 

‘On 16 ay NIXOLOV was ordered by URISINICY to Joesté ona Tlievw GIVHOY, and
to take him to the Trudovaks at colaVocila. Froa Gole-Vocila GICEoy would
~~ take the Trudovaxs to the Jorgani group in the Lastensko Yountains.

7 rremierents were mede that the next day JiTROY would! taxe tle Trudovaks

" te the Gorjani. The next day GFunor kd not appear and later RIXGLOY
‘aearned that he had been arrested by the calice.. .

 

  
   

"Qn 22 Way the Nilitia 4 Novo Selo fPlovitvl, arrested ULOv. ie was,

- interregated about the frudcvaks, Sut he deaied evar, 3 and wag released
after 24 hours of detention. Following this, iTACLOV decided to stop
“_.provisimin; the Trudovaks. ae a

 

   

. . o

 

- APOE

 
 

 

$04:10478-10166

 

 

OE OP 516 .
: eat of ‘statdon, Athens]

 

 

 

th epcape. of the seved’ bodies ‘nantioned in firat reference The: ‘Feport
was prepared: we REISER. : .

 

 

Ex Awl KAPCE O64
Grvc-} .

; Sohfel

Sieg 51-28

U/l
 

   

 
  

 
 
 

  
 
 

0.

path

 

13.

Oa 7 June, while at: work, fran wet hiv brother Petur HIMULOY. Putar told

‘organization and the Teadovaka, aid-that he (Petit!).had bean arrest:

- warn HRISTOZOV and to tell hin that the IXQLOYS are going to escape to

 yefused because he was donfident that he could save hinself by putting - “ali >

    

oral tela Fi

fm 2? Vay Sorde bnLTituv, a cuieie af
ev asket UT

in Markevo and vinited eon The

    

   

 

carrying food te tha Trutey

 
 
 
 

ivegsatod - that ‘the rriovaks nide for a fow dave in ivants att:
would be easier “te feed thar until a cride was fount. Py 7 din
Trudovaks ‘had not sonia. *

   
    
 
 
  

 

Ivan that ‘the poiice had arrested: Vasil LAZALOV, @ weabar of the. indan‘round
‘organisation and the brother-in-law of stefan PiLTEXCV, one of” Trude
Petur stated that ‘LAZAROY nal revealed .ovarything about the un

 
   

  

 
   
 
 
 

2 result of LAZANOV's-confesaicn. Petur seid “hat he wes beaten’:
interrogation, and that he had becn forced to confess also. He
released for taro days on’the condition that-he would tum over the’ Trude
to the, police. ‘He had also prociiged’ to obtain froad Ivan the recognition
sigrale for meeting tho Trudovake. fotur asked Ivan to go imedistely

  
 
 

 
 
  

     
 

 
 

Greece and that everyone connected with Vasil LAZAKOV should escap: als

    

 

Tr some svening the Trudovata went to Ivan's house as had been arranged
with Horis PuLTEXOY. Ivan tola them whal hal haprered acd advised ‘then ppt y
to spend the nipht somewhere in the vicinity and to return the next day -
te Jola Yorila where he would join them for the escape to Jresce. ~

   

NIKOIV told Angel sRIs“occY of the danger the,’ ware in aad advised hia A - i.
and all other cotpromiaed meabers of thu oryanisation to escaye. THOM ZOy y

 

of the blame. ‘the JIRGLN brothers.

On 3d June Ivan ana Petur joined the trudevaks at Gola Moy;ila. ‘here they —
waited until Boria and Retur SeLitxoy camo, and cn ll June thoy left for me

Greece. eo. :

KIKOLOY suspects Vasil LAZAROY of being an agent praveca au", but ne ts

not certain. He:has not axsociated with LAZAROV since ths latter joined
the Army. During the flight to Greece he heard Petur ant Joris PELTEKOV .
say that they would kill Vasil LAZAROV as a traitor if they ever went back ©
to Bulgaria. In any case, Vasil LAZAMOV decdivel the Trudovaks and the . _

PSLTEXOY trothers by telling them that he wanted to help thea ty escape | {
to Greece, when he actually wanted to send them to the Jorjani. : in

    
   

 

NTENLOV is now at odds with the PeLTEXOVS because of Vasil LAZAROV, but he
atates that he has ‘known thes before and that thay have been and still are

patriotic anti-Communist.

 

FAPOK
