104-10173-10090 Fl

: i POPOne/reerITurn CCNFRCL :

'

|

| the American political scéne of the past few years or chose to avoid

| discussing it. Howaver, he appeared te have few illusiona about the
Soviet -brand of politics, He had the impression of having been watched

| while visiting the USSR and ho was oritical of the red tepe and “buck
passing" that he found among Soviet officials, His conversation also

| indicated that he was conscious of the anti-enitist one encountered .

f

{

|

|

|

i

 

in the Soviet Union. ’

3. On 22 and 22 Aprid 1961, an employes of this offices, representing
himself to Subject as an Awerican named Walter 0, Peters who was conducting
& survey of American scholars and studenta engaged in Slavie studies in
Seandinavia, interviewed Subject. When the eonvereation got around to a
discussion of Subject's travel to the USSR and hia oomtaocts with Soviets :
in Dermark, Subject becasa reluctant to proceed, with the eventual result . .
that our officer indicated to Subject hia counsctions with "American Intelli~= ~~
gence." . Subject subsequently confimed civ man's bona fides through inquiries
at the Amorican Embassy, doing so, however, in such a menner.as to avoid |
divulging "Petera'" intalligence function, a disclosure ha had bean asked by
*"Paters® to make to no-one, Much of the interview between our officer and - :
KANTOR covered ground already familiar to you but we are attaching, neverthe-~ i
less, as Attachnent A, a copy of a portion of the debriefing,” 7 ‘

: ! k, “Subject was again interviewed by cur representative, "Peters," on i
. 3 and h May 1961, The principal reaults of those conversations are amtained :

in Attachment B herewith. -We have Gmitted from thie version of the debriefing

namea and biographic data on some of KANTOR's relatives and casual cohtacts in _

the USSR. This information can be furnished to you, however, should you desire ;

at.

7

oi S. Another source of this office, who 4s believed to be reliable, has :
i odtained the following information from ong of Subjfeat's acquaintances; the 1 ,
| latter ia referred to below as "informant":

in a. In mideJune.1961, Subject tried to interest the informant in ‘
H taking a trip to the USSR of about three weeka' duration. Subject :
t suggested that a party of four people could make the trip for about :
' $150.00 each, end that soe money could be saved by their staying with at
at his relatives in Minsk, Subject planned to rent a car for about 1200
: Danish kroner (approximate rate of exchange: D.Xr, 7,1he0S #1,00),

3 and he expressed a willingness to absorb personally any of the informant's
! expenses in excess of the estimated cost, within "several hundred kronor.”

‘ 2
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

 
104-10173-10090

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note)
NW 53295 6/15/17 ~~ : weeeee

 

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation Loe
Attentions Mr. 5.0. Papich — - ee.
FROMs Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: Marvin KANTOR

 

1. Reference ig-made to your filo mmber 105-7772, concerning the dhove

‘Subject, who has been of interest to your Bureau and to thia office because of
’ his contectsa with official representatives of the Soviet Union in Nenmark, A

considerable amount of additional information on KANTOR has become available
to us gince cur last report to you on hin, most of it acoruing from a series
of interviews with him by a representative of this officos Information frow

this and other sources 1s reported below.

2. A eource, an American citizen, who is believed to bo. roll Le and who
1a acquainted with the. Subject, haa reported that in November 1960 Subject
stated to bim as follows: :

ae Subject served - tn the United Atates Marine Corps asa jet air
craft mechenio fron 1952 te 1955 in both North Carolina and the West
Indies. After his disoharge from the service he epent ona year at.
Fairleigh Digkingon Callege (Rutherford, New Jersey), leaving after that
time because he found it unsatisfactory and unstimlating. ‘In 1957 he
came to Europa to tour the continent, and during the latter part of 1957
and 1958 he made two 3-month trips to the USSR, where he lived with his -
unole's family in Minsk, He attended sane classes at the university there,

 

 

but was not a registered stadants He has stated that he has several cousins

of about bis age in Minnk, ©

bd. His future plans (as of the déte of this information) ware
uncertain, but he would probably return to the United states to teach
Russian at the college level, However, he would not be opposed to
retwming to the Soviet Union for further study. He ims also interested.
in the possibility of studying in China, and had discussed this possibility
with the American Fubassy in order to ascertain the legality of his doing
60. Subject apparently considered going to Chins because the people there
"live closer to life," or words to that effect. .

c. It was source's opinion that Subject vither was uninformed adout

1
MOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL,

were

frtieeememma ‘ee
 

104-10173-10090

 

_ NOFORN/CONTINUZD CONTROL

hag

 

Subject stated that” ae. thie trip did not materialise, he ~~ probably’
make 4 short trip to Yugoslavia, “for a last look at Slavi © Burope,® :
before returning to the United States. Ha planned to return hone by

ship about the first week of September and would attend the,sp otal
language program at. Fordhan Univeralty. . He indicated that it would be .
a difficnlt time for him financially, since tuition alone for this course:

is $900 per year,

| be. Subsequently, when the inforase decided he could not make tha
trip, Subject decided to call 1t off, although he was still desirous of
visiting the Soviet Union again before returning to the United States

¢. various pointe of conversation, Subjact expressed the following
opinianar

tn

 

 

 

 

-1. Subject felt that the USSR had honored all of her sgveenents
at Yalta and Potsdan and that the United Statea had no legal rights .
. in West Berlin, especially since the USS, legally at least, had’ - -
y- | noved cut of Fast Serlin. Hovever, ha feela, neither the USSR: nor
4 . the United States is entirely in the right. "he is favorable toward
Po the United States and hopes that. this country will take tho initiative
in a constructive new approach to the problem, However, if the USSR |
were to take this initiative, then he would have to side with then,

 

 

2. On economic questions, Subject appears to be a strict Marxist ©
and atcepte the economic interpretation of history. He believes that - cs
the history of-Russia shows that under Commmism it 1a possible for -- E
& backward nation to advance to the status of a major power in &

‘ A short time, The United States system, he feels, is outmoded and rm

: by profiteere and gangsters who have no interest in the undarprivileged.

' Culturally, the Soviets have better tastes and are moving ahead, while.

i the United States is standing still. However, although the Commnist

3 - gyaten might be more potent economically, American democrary has more

; : to offer socially and politically. Ruseia is still ecneentrating on.
necessities, while the United States is producing many liomriee, but :
ence the Soviets. began to asphasize the improvement of their living -

F standard, they would catch up with the West in this respect. The

i main problem in the world is to prevent war and, Subject feela, there

: is no doubt that the intentions of the USSR are peaceful.

d. Subject expects to marry his Danish girl friend, Lisa, in Auguat

 

3

BOFORM/CONTINUEL CONTROL : :
OE aes r 4
104-10173-10090

 

YI

NOFOPN/CONTENURD CONTROL

or Septenber of this years
6 Any edditional inforation that may beoone available ‘eoncerning the

 

ay
along these lines céuld reveal to the Subject the identity of the infarman’t who
apprised our source concerning his conversations with the Subject.

 

ce0T~3/765, 62 /] 22
ah
ME/1/ca/iGrarquistrpe based an: {6ssa-103hh 22 Apr 61
Coane debriefing)
Distribution: .
W 2 = Federal Bureau of Tavestigation . ee 10382, 8 May a
ao cx/oPs a debriefing)
= CI/RLA :

2 -~WE/ - :
1 = RI (201-279710)
