26 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD ©
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 26 March 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

Dr.. Scoville, Mr. McMillan, and Colonel Steakley were
. present for Items 1-5.

Mr. Lundahl was present for Item 1.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 5.

Low-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba

 

 

 

In connection with the USIB recommendation for resumption of \
low-level coverage of Cuba, Mr. Lundahl showed the Group examples u
of the additional information that can be obtained from low-level ‘
photography as contrasted with high-level coverage. This had to do i
particularly with identification of materiel, spotting of personnel, |
etc.

Mr. McCone emphasized that low-level coverage would give us AN
additional information on the numbers of Soviet troops and possibly
on Soviet intentions, and similar subjects, but that it would not 4
represent a qualitative shift in the body of intelligence available. ia
It would. not reveal anything that would be of major security interest
to the U.S. and which could not be picked up by high-level coverage.

Mr. McCone also referred to the progress of certain negotiations n
which have been holding up active consideration of low-level photo-
graphy. He said that there are differences of opinion among people
closest to this situation as to what the effect of resumption of such
photography actually might be on the negotiations.

Mr. Gilpatric said that Defense is not convinced of the urgency
of this proposition and would not favor it at. this time, unless others
feel that there is an overriding political reason for undertaking the
project. He said that he would prefer to see this capability reserved
for identifying the type of threat that we might otherwise not be
aware of, or used at a time when there was some political advantage to
be gained by low-level flights. 7

“7

 
  

cee oe eee EEE STE aT me See special minutes
a or additional item

 

 

 

~
   

5 aT URir TTT —_ a = GB woney cegeetes ce egeperes RTT oe \ .

io Mr. Johnson said that the Secretary of State does not believe j
that’there is any foreign policy reason for mounting the operation ‘
at this time, and in fact the Secretary and other high officials in
the Department feel that from a policy point of view it would be
inadvisable now.

The Group then agreed that the resumption of low-level coverage
would not be recommended at this time, but that it would be kept
under weekly review. ]

2. { 16

 

The Group noted the intelligence justification for this proposal
and the political objections to it, and the Chairman agreed to discuss
it with higher authority as an example of a situation where clear-cut
differences of interest exist. He said that if there was any doubt ;
from that quarter he. would have ali the principals participate in
further discussion with higher authority. (The proposal was later
_ disapproved by higher authority.) ] y j

- Gq. "

3. {Peripheral Reconnaissance Operations ‘

i

ae Colonel Steakley gave the following brief reports on a
number of peripheral missions:

(1) The ELINT coverage of theft produced good -
results. He. said that this area is now so well covered with
radars that consideration should probably be given as to whether
the rules requiring an abort in case of an AI Llock-on should be
relaxed. . : ;

(2) The AMOS mission, directed against SA-3's in the
Baltic, did not result in any ELINT take from the radars
associated with the SA-3's. He said that some question now
arises as to whether these weapons are in fact. SA~3's or
perhaps a later generation of the SA-2. _

(3) A DESOTO destroyer mission off the Soviet Maritime
Provinces resulted in Soviet instructions to shut down their
radars when the ship approached.

b. The Group approved four missions (UNA, DANIEL, FLOYD and
GEORGE) using new ASD-1 equipment. This includes two in the Baltic :
area, one in the Black Sea, and one flying from to the Black

Sea.7

 

 
   

 

SCN Stee ee oe

 

 

COU ARR, Ah ater chats ck as Pe Meat etn cai SS

13-0900 Qe yesavmeramnersuerstentes omen seem ayn cts

og. ao -

 

14 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MEMBERS OF THE SPECIAL GROUP

 

SUBJECT: Approval of Cuba Papers

All members of the Special Group have now approved the
following memoranda from the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs:

a. "Covert Propaganda to Stimulate Passive Resistance
and Low-Risk, Simple Sabotage," 8 March 1963.

b. "Proposed Infiltration/Exfiltration Operations in
Cuba - 15 March 1963 to 15 April 1963," 11 March 1963.

wrnrdrk

Thomas A. Parrott

Distribution ~
Mr. Johnson : .
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

 
13-00000

for —” SepRET
EYES ONLY,

-4-

failure of equipment, and failure of rendezvous plans. He said
that efforts are continuing to carry out these operations success-
fully, but indicated some unhappiness with the results to date and
the prospects of success. He alluded particularly to the qualities
of the agent personnel. ,

Fae.

Thomas A. Parrott

 

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone
13-00000

. cEhtey
EYES ONLY

-2-

‘[provise a basis for estimating accurately the chances for successful

ow~Llevel penetration of the USSR. Mr. McCone will arrange to have
a USIB paper prepared on this subject.

The Group noted the DESOTO destroyer voyage, which will now in-
clude a courtesy call at Djakarta.

Colonel Steakley told the Group that CINCLANT has tried out the
MELON PATCH Photography missions, operating under the ten mile re-
striction which was laid on by the Special Group at its meeting of
31 January.. It is now apparent to CINCLANT that adequate photography
of the desired areas cannot be obtained at that distance. The Group
agreed that the ten mile restriction should remain in force. In ig
coming to this conclusion they made the point that in case of real
need for this type of coastal intelligence, there would be adequate
time to obtain it after an emergency actually was in effect; and
further, any such information collected now would have to be up-dated
before operations could be mounted based on it. : i

The revised RED DOG missions, to be flown in C-47's, and the Hl
proposal to fly some BRASS KNOB missions from the Canal Zone, were ‘
approved.

Colonel Steakley was asked to give the Group_a report on the i!
results obtained from the last mission into the ‘
Colonel Steakley told the Group that the JCS will make no

recommendation on low-level coverage of Laos (ABLE MABEL) until after
the results of the Agency effort explained below.

 

The Group made a point of saying that although the time is not
iow propitious. for covering the COMOR priority targets in Cuba with 4
low-level flights, it may well prove desirable to do this on fairly i
short notice. Therefore this matter should be kept under constant
‘review by operating elements.)

2. “| Reconnaissance ~ CIA Monthly Forecast |

Mr. McCone told the Group that the weather has suddenly opened /
up over North Vietnam and that the mission to cover that area, via ‘
Laos, which was approved by the Special Group on 17 January, will 4
actually be launched tonight. He said that after this is completed :
the airplane will be ferried to Taiwan in accordance with the dis-
cussion at the meeting of the 25th of February, transiting Laos on
the way. Mr. McCone also reported on. the recent successful GROSBEAK
mission. . . a at

 

- EYES ONLY Ly ,
13-00000

: but that he will have it studied further.

SECRET
EYES ONLY

-3-

az aren as an a TSS ee on
[Bemova of Soviet Troops ‘
“Mr. McCone said that we still do not know very much about the

t
i

i removal of Soviet troops from Cuba. Mr. Bundy stated that the :

official government position is that available information is in-
sufficient to justify any change in the estimated figures of Soviets
on the island, He added that no change can be made in these © figures,
ic approval by higher authority.7].. wee

 

4. Testimony on Cuba

Mr. McCone commented on the difficulties encountered by
officials who are required to testify before Congressional committees
on the Cuban situation, in light of the propensity of these committees
to question witnesses on statements made by other officials. Mr.
Bundy recognized that this is a problem and said that in an attempt
to alleviate it he has had several documents brought together. These
include a compendium of the President's remarks on the subject; the
DCL's report to the Killian Committee; a report by Assistant Secretary
Martin; and most recently, the CIA-prepared paper on subversion in
the hemisphere. He added that the basic responsibility for co-
ordinating public statements rests with the Secretary | of State.

ss ae vanes ; :

sm < as = EX
5. (Italy = = ‘Status Report on Election Operation

The Group noted that this project is progressing, but is still
in its early stages. 7] : 4

 

 

, 6. Ce <F

The Group approved the proposal dated 25 February, sub ject to

‘approval by higher authority. (This was later granted.) 7

To [agency Operations in Latin America 98

Mr. Gilpatric inquired as to the feasibility of mounting 4
intelligence or other operations against selected military personnel
in Latin America. Mr. McCone said that some of this is being done

Toomer ore

8. Progress. on Cuban Operations

Mr. McCone told the Group that none of the five agent operations
approved by the Group on the 8th of February has been successful.
He noted that there have been a number of aborts due to weather,

 

 

cceaey
EYES ONLY

Vane
“SECRET
EYES ONLY

8 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 8 February 1963

PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hilsman,
and Mr. FitzGerald

1. Agent Operations in Cuba

Mr. FitzGerald discussed with the Group the CIA paper of
6 February which recommends a total of five maritime infiltration/
exfiltration operations during the next thirty days.

He emphasized that these black operations are entirely of an
intelligence nature and that they should be viewed only as a
supplement to intelligence coverage accomplished by other means.
In the. latter connection, the point was made that information ob-
tained by agents of this type can contribute to the targeting of
aerial reconnaissance sorties and can assist in making the process
of photo interpretation more meaningful... _

Mr. FitzGerald also emphasized that the teams now proposed
are comprised of only one to three agents. He noted that the agents
available are particularly well motivated, and that those whose
primary motivation was toward action rather than intelligence have
been weeded out. :

The consensus of the Group was that while agent operations of
this type cannot be considered as a primary or major source of
intelligence, nonetheless this type of operation is consistent
with U.S. objectives in the Cuba situation and that approval of
these five should be recommended.

(These missions were approved by higher authority, 9 February

1963)
FE GE fee ee poe ee ee et . ne .
2. (- Subsidy to .

 

 

 

D

 

° Mr. McCone reported on financial arrangements which have been _
made in connection with subsidy of the | which ]

 

 

 

SECRET
EYES ONLY
 

ei staan cape npg nent

 

28 January 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR Rosieu

UEC? s Cuba

The Executive Coumitree met on Friday, January 25th, and
aapceved the rew policy as outlined by the Coov‘inater.

Dacisions bearing on covert operations were ceached as follewa:

1. The Special Group will have the responsibility of
continuing veview of thé program for infiltration of covert intelli-
pence agents. Progress will be regularly check-d with the Group.
Higher authority wade a particular point of saying that, although
the objective of ‘intensified covart collection’ is approved,
nenethaless, CIA should not feel it &¢ under pressure to "yet good
men killed’ in the -rocesa. In other words, the advantages to ba
gained from {ntenatited collection must be continually weighed
ageinst the risks. This will be dona by the Special Group.

2. The sctorney General expressed great interest in the
extent to which key members of the Brigade will be brought into
planning and current operations. He thought that they should be
thoroughly consulted on plane for intelligence teaus and he indicated

that he will personally keep an eyo on progress in this regard.

3. The use of propaganda balloons was disapproved at this
time. It apparently was not clear as to exactly how far CIA should
go in maintaining its current capability for launching balloors.

teirtrteirte

At Mr. Bundy‘s suggestion I had a long talk with Cottrell on
Saturday, the 26th. We discussed in particular the method of operation
with the Brigade. I pointed out some of the security aspects that
would have to be watched, but expressed the opinion that a workable
method of operation could be devised eo that the Brigade leaders
could provide motivation and could feel a sense of participation,
without heaving to bring them so closely tnto the details of target
areas, dispatch, como , etc., aa Co constitute a security hazard.

I cited the Agency's experience with the NTS as a possible guideline
im this regard. We agreed that after Mr. PiteGerald returns from
Panama, about the first of February, the three of us should diecuss
thie matter further.

TAP

Tee &

ical

 
+ SECRET
. . EYES ONLY

~2-

, Go

{ves approved at’ the meeting of 31 January 1963. He said that Agency ~ -

‘funds on deposit with the which will serve as fi
‘collateral against the bank's loan f
: ould draw interest at 4%, while the purchaser will pay /
the commercial rate of 6%. The Chairman expressed satisfaction :
with this arrangement, f :

 

 

 

 

 

 

keel

omas A’. Parrott

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
Mr. McCone

SECRET
EYES ONLY
1 3,00000

- SECRET
EYES ONLY.

28 February 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 28 February 1963
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone

Colonel Steakley was present for Items 1-3

 

1. [/ Reconnaissance ~ DOD Monthly Forecast .
The Group had no objection to the BOW TIE missions as planned.

 

1] ‘Mr. McCone alluded, however, to. the unexplained military activity
/ that is going on in eastern China, and asked about the capability of
: BOW TIE to check on this. It was _pointed out that the BOW TLE

program consists of comparatively shallow penetration which would
probably not reach the kind of military target Mr. McCone had in mind.
Accordingly, Colonel Steakley was asked to confer with COMOR to find
out whether requirements exist for deeper penetration in the area,
and if so to bring in an appropriate proposal to the Special Group.

In connection with project AMOS, Mr. Johnson read a message from
to the Secretary of State. said that while the

and the ill be glad to have the advantage of the
intelligence resulting from the mission, nonetheless this represents
a departure from the previous pattern of flights in the area.
Additionally, the flight will, according to go closer ‘to the
coast than the is allowed to go. He was willing to agree to the
mission, provided it was not viewed as establishing a precedent, and
on the stipulation that Secretary Rusk personally accepts the risk
entailed, Mr. Johnson said that Secretary Rusk is willing to accept
this risk. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Group approved AMOS, subject to check by Mr. Bundy with
higher authority, and on the understanding that the Group will have
a chance to take a last look at it shortly before the scheduled date
of 19 March. Colonel Steakley was also asked to report to the Group
on the results of the mission. (This mission was later approved by
higher authority.)

In this connection, Mr. McCone commented on the great importance
of obtaining intelligence on the Soviet low-level SA-3 system. The |
Group agreed that thisis a high-priority requirement, in order to] ,

 

EYES ONLY
