 

 

waar ante + Aeactee orm hametemnn tet, be hs remade SE

 

 

  

 

 

“The Wiretapping Incident (continuea)

 

Schemes in Early 1963. 2... 6 ee eee cc we tte eae

Project AMLASH - Rolando Cubela. cee ew wee ee eee ee

  
 

  
  
 
 

> SEONET-EV iS pay

 

‘Chicago Sun-Tines story of 16 Avg 63 re Giancana & CIA... . 67

. Chicago Daily News story of 20 Aug 63 re Giancana & CIA 69
Helms sends McCone a copy of the Kennedy briefing memo: andum. » . 69°
Rumors now connect. CIA & gangsters in plot to kill Castro » 70,

Former Yaheu eapioyee called to ieitigy 7
Former Maheu employee called to testify : ;
The Onassis-liiarchos fight over oil shipping: rights eee ce
Maheu is hired by Niarchos and is supported by CIA

CIA intervenes cn Niarchos' behalf... ess 6 oe te we
The Long Committee plans to resurrect the Onassis wiretap
CIA intervenes with the Long Committee on Maheu's behalf. .
Maneu appiies pressure on CIA to avoid publicity

Maheu indicates he may brief his attormey » 26 2 ee ewe

Skin Diving Suit. . 2... 22s ee ences ecvccees
' Gift from Donovan to Castro :
The suit 1s bought and made ready. . . 0s 2 0 coe eee
The plan is overtakva by events
. List of persons witting. . . . eee se eee eee eae
.. Booby-trapped Sea Shell .
‘Books on Mollusca are bought... eee ce ee ee ce
The plan proves to be impracticable .
Rames of those witting . - 6. 0 ee ee eee ee ee

 

Meetings in Stockholm se See ee ee ee

meeting with Cubela in Mexico City (Mar 61)....
6 role in the Cuban revolution : .

Cubela reported disaffected... 40 eee eee een eee
Mexico City meeting inconclusive .
Cubela and Juan Orta want to exfiltrate (Mar 61). 6... 6
Cubela asks for meeting in Paris (Aug 61) an
Cubela plans to attend Helsinki Youth Festival. .. oe eee
Meetings in Helsinki (Aug 62) :

Cubela objects to the word "assassinate"

Faris meetings (Aug 62); S/W & demolition training. . 2...
Meetings in Porto Alegre (Sept 63)

Paris meetings (Oct 63); Cubela wants assurance fron U.S. Govt
FitzGerald meets with Cubela in Paris (Oct 63)

Differing versions of what FitzGerald told Cubela ... 1 wae

  

 

_SECRET-EiBS cuLy
SEORET-EYES OLY

      
 
  

Project AMIASH - Rolando Cubela (continued)

Cuba cache approved for Cubela. . 6. 6 ee ee st ee eee
The Black Leaf 40 schaze. is: discussed co . .
Gunn converts a.balipoint pen into a hypodermic syringe...
Sanchez gives to Cubela in Paris while Kernedy is shot
_Cubela asks for high-powered rifle with telescople sight. ..

. Those vitting cf tre Black Leaf 40 episode O
Cubela cache put dewn (without rifles) (Mar 63) ....4.0.¢
Cubela requests a silencer for a FAL rifle .
SAS requests TSD to prcduce FAL silencer on crash basis . . .

- Second Cubela cache put down (with FAL rifles)(June 6%)
Artime meets Cubela intermediary. . 2.40.0 6 ee

‘ Artime agrees tc meet with Cubela personally .

; Sanchez meets Cubela in Paris (Mec 64)... 6. ee ee

f " Explanation of how Artime and Cubela were put together

po Artime and Cubela meet in Madrid (Dec 64)... 2 0 eee ee 101

 

eee ee

 

 

} Artime agrees to furnish silencer 2102 “|

} Artime gives Cubela silencer and other special gear. ..... 103 : t

fo) lsc: Second name-line between Cubcla and ganbling syndicate operation 104 ores
Se Readquarters tersinates all coatacts vith Cubela group. .... 104 Lo.

| a 5 : ' Cubela and others arrested; plead guilty (Mar 66) 107 pee

po . The charges... eee ee ere ee ee we we we we wa ee 103 “40

CO os Castro asks for leniency : 109 ‘

iM Testinony about the silencer. .. 2 es ee ee ee eee ees 109 . ;

_, Cubele expects to be executed . . ho ,
: . _. Cubela sentenced to 25 years’ imprisonment. .... 0 ee eee 110 vt
io : . No mention made of Cubela's pre-Nov 64 dealings with CIA lu ze”

- Memo to Secretary of State (Rusk), Subject: CIA Involve
. ment in Cuban Counter-revolutionary Activities --
Arrest of Rolando CUBELA Secades and Parnon Tomas
. GUIN Diaz,dated 7 March 1966 (added after completion 7
‘ofrerort) foe eee eee eee ee eee to ee UR

 

   

 

   
  
 

     
   

   
  
 

frente vette

“> SEORET-FVES Gi

ee

 

 

 

EW enh acca Men ce AS a

   
    

14-00000

 

 

 

   
 

  

“SEORETEVES OY

   

Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2... eee ee ee ee eee

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Why Harvey was briefed on Phase 1... wee twee
- Harvey put in charge of the Executive Action Capability |
‘Harvey briefs Helms on the Executive Action Capability...
' QUWIN- planned assassination of Lumumba us a
Approval of Project ZRRIFIE. 6... ee a eee ww ae .
- Bissell puts Harvey in charge of the Castro cperation
Harvey is told he will head the Cuba task force... i462 0 39

.
&S
~

meen teen

Harvey's first reeting with Edwards on the Castro operation ko Poy 4
Termination of QWIN. se eee tw te te ee te te es 4
Harvey briefs Helms on the Castro overation ud e
tffering views on the turnover to Harvey ........ 22,42
Harvey's first meeting with Roselli in New York City | : 43
Roselli and O'Connell go to Miami... . eS
Harvey leaves for Miami with lethal pills LG
Roseili 1s already in touch with Verona... 4. ee eee. AF
harvey takes over "a going operation" 47 a
Changes in gangster personnel participating .. . eee ee oe ee AB
Maceo enters the operation 4a
Harvey supplies weapons and equipment to Varona ... 4... ee kg ‘ E
Roselli reports that the pills are in Cuba » 50 3
Verona sends a three-man team to Cuba. se eee eee ee eee SL “ ‘
Varona plans to send three militia men to Cuba $1 :
Harvey and Roselli agree to terminate the operation ......6. 52 ; i,
Roselli cames to Washington to meet Harvey - §3 ?
Harvey's meeting with Roselli observed by the FBI... ee a we SH
List of persons witting of this phase of the operation ‘ 55 ‘

The Wiretapping Incident... eee eee ee eee eee eee

Giancana suspects Phyllis McGuire and Dan Rowan... eee ewe
- Glancana asks Maheu to bug Rovan's room po Tht
Likely date of the bugging incident Cr
Maheu asks Edward Du Bois to do the Job
. Du Bois assigns Palles*ti and Harrison to the JObe ww ae ene
Wiretap made instead of microphone plant .
Balletti is caught and phones Maheu for help, . 2. ewe ewes
Maheu refers the FBI to CIA . . :
_ Shef Edwards meets with an FBI representative . 2... ee eee
_ Edwards intervenes with Sam Papich on Maheu's behalf 7
: -Houston intervenes with the Justice Department... 4... ee ee
Houston briefs General Carter
Edwards and Houston brief the Attorney General. . 2. 4 2's 3 eo
Edvards sends a memorandum record of the meeting tu Kennedy
- Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2 is already under way... 0... 0
Helms is briefed on the meeting with the Attorney General ;
Edwards warns Harvey to clear with the DCI. . . rr -5.1
Kennedy's request on & March 67 for a copy of the briefing memo 66°

SECRET-EVES OBLY

 
 
    
      
   
   
    
     
      
 

  
      

ro

   

TABLE OF CONYENTS

      
 

_ Introductory section ”

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Scarcity of documentary evidence Pe
‘Relationship of assassination planning to goverment policy
Risk of assassination when a goverrment is overthrown .. » 2 « «
- Resort to synecdoche .
* Published intelligence on the possibility or castro! 8 demise ee
Accuracy of the story, Drew Pearson has . . .

4

   

Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August - 1960 ore ee ee wee eee

ES © annenr

- “Aerosol Attack on Radio Station’. . see eee ee eee te ee
mo ot Contaminated Cigars a .

i a _Depilatory . 6 eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee WY
i Gambling Syndicate - Phase lL... sere eee eee eee eee lh
i

Genesis of the plot... see ee ee cee wee eee eee dh

 

i : First. contact with Maheu . 15
| oo, O'Connell named ac case Officer sw ee ee ee eee ee we oe 16
cfos. oo. ... Firat mecting with Roselli rn - 16,
boom, : » Briefing of Dulles and Cabell «ss eee eee ee ee ee 2 :
; J °-. .- First meeting between Maheu and Giancana wm CC, ye
| ao - . fue identities of Glancana and Trafficante became known ... . 19 bore
: CO Role of Trafficante : 19 :
: . Early Planning on the means of assassination . 6 « « 2 « » « » « 20

: oo verent with lethal cigars .
to ® preparation of lethal cigars . 6 se se ae eeee
; eos Delivery of the cigars to Gunn :
"Roosevelt learns of the plot 2s 1 6 se se ee mew ewes
Possible ways of packaging the poison .
Decision to package the poison in pill form. . - . 22 2 a 2 oe
. Juan Orta is identified as the syndicate's man in Cuba

Gunn tests the pills on guinea pigs . 1. 2. se 2 eee nee eee
Sequence preceding passing the pills to O'Connell fog
O'Connell receives the pills and passes them to Roselli . 2.» «
- Harvey is briefed on the operation

Trafficante receives the pills and | gives them to Orta eee ewe
Identification of Orta :

. The Orta channel collapses Ce s
Varona is brought into the operation _ °
Edward K. Mose . 2 ee ee eee ee ee eee coe ose eae
Roselli associates O'Connell with CIA .

Funds are approved for passing to Varonn . 2 oe 2 e's eo ee
Money and lethal pills are passed to Varona .. -

Varona's restaurant contact in Cuba... 2 2 ee ee ee ee we
Edwards calls off the operation _ .
Disposition of the pills... ...cesceeecsvece
list of those witting of the operation

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 

  
 
  
     
     
    
  
 
 

 

4. ‘The one stayback bum copy,

© SEOET-EHES gay

   
   
 

   

cites

SUBJECT: Report on Plots to Astassinate Fidel Castro.

This report was prepared at the re.
Central Intelligence. fe aesigned the task to the Inspector
General on 23 March 1

Personally, in installments,
Director returned this copy

Retain it in Personal, EYES oxy safekeeping

Destroy the one burn copy retained temporarily by the
Inspector General - :

all notes, and all other derived i.
on 23 May 1967. . oP .
. . i i

This ribbon copy is the only text of the report now in existence, Li tok
either in vhole or in Part. Its text has been read only by: 7 4 . |
. 4

Richard Helms, Director of Central Intelligence _
J. S. Earman, Inspector General

K. E. Greer, Inspector (one of the authors) ~~ :
 &. Be Breckinridge, Inspector (one of the authors)

All typing of drafts and of final text was done by the authors.
Filed with the report are:

Source materials vere destroyed

 

 

  

“SECRET-EVES iy

ay usr tag tts

  
    
  

SHONET-EVES OMY

  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
       
  
 

: Introductory Section: a ; Lot

Miscellaneous Schemes Prior to August 1960
Aerocol Attack on Padio Station

. Contaminated Cigars
Depilatory , : ;

“The Gambling Syndicate ¢ operation :

Phase 1 (August 1960 - - May 1961)

(Phase 2 (Late 1961 - June 1963) |

weet panne Sem

or a "he Wiretapping Incident oo oo.
iC "The Phyllis MeGutre/Attorney | General Phase (late 1961 - May 1962)
.

The Long Committee Phase (May - July 1956) |
; Schenes in Early 1963 :

Skin Diving Suit
"Bea Shel

 

"Project AMIASH ~ Rolardo Cubela (woret: 1961 - - March 1966)

Discussion of Assassination at High-Level Government Meetings

. Special Group (Augmented) Meeting of 10 August 1962

 

 

 

/ Bpectal Group Meeting of 30 July 1964

   

‘The Rant fications of the Gambling Syndicate Operation

     

   
  

~ SEGRET—EVES OLY

 

  
 

1400000 - +

 

“Dear Pritz:. :

ue
toot LRAU o Bireuucence AGench
. _Wasvincron, D.C. 20508

Mr. Frederick A: oO. Schwarz, Je. :
Chief Counsel

- Senate Select Committee-To Siudy Governmental

- Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities ;
United States Senate . mo oo : -
shingtoo, D.C.. 20510 —_

 

Per J your telephone ‘request; the attached copy ‘of the

Bcd Report is transmitted to you on loan for your use during
_ a hearing scheduled for this date.

 

- We have not been able to locate any memorandum by:

Mi. Helms on his meeting with the Attorney General in 1967. -

, Should one be located, I vill forward it immediately. ;

"Please call me > when you have finished with this material
‘and we will arrange to return it to our office.

_ WaltElder

Attachment: a/s |

 
 

104-10214-10033

“1967 1G Report"

(Unsanitized).

PRET

ON LOAN ONLY

- RECEWVED FROM potorned -to

AUN 12 1975 CiA

 
OP: me ra
: cq ‘WRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC!
Las Wasnincrom, D.C. 20595

. 3

Mr. Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel ay

Senate Select Committee To Study Governmental °
Operations With Respect to Intélligence Activities

United States Senate . -o

Washington, D.C. 20510 coe

». Dear Mr. Schwarz:

 

ao it is agreed that a version of the 1967 Inspector General's
. veport is available to you, on a loan basis, for your study prior .
“to next week's Committee sessions. Des . :

“The report should be stored in the secure areas of the Joint -
:* Committee for Atomic Energy and is to be compartmented, with
, access limited to Staff members cleared for such a access.

“Faithfully yours,

EL HL Knoche
. Assistant to the Director

 
ce cumeaapiegiptenih nati demented Rh

inte

a_i
=
Ss
“7
bended
faa
-.
x
Rated
a7)

 
